

\
Im
»Vi
fh v •// A\W S .>
—^g=<nn=
/^l\\Vv
X X
tW
i?
'(/ { j
I /.ft I ;V
I k
4 oe ma
I
=w=
itgg^Wfg"
llllOr Q39MIH
»N3j tmyayM
The Fence
„ ■
Iwith the/
Perfect
Joint
FimPnoor.
Rust Proof,
Stock Proof, t.
Weatherproof
In the event of the wires being
distorted from pressure by a beast
or other cause, immediately the
strain is removed the fence reverts
to its original erect position.
ECONOMY is the watchword that is being sounded
everywhere in these times of financial stress.
Fencing costs are a big item to the man on the land
—how foolish, how economically unsound to go on
erecting the old-fashioned, obsolete type of post and
wire fence! In a few years the whole cost of labor
and materials will have to be met again. THE
WARATAH FENCE, “HINGED JOINT,” LASTS A
LIFETIME.
Summer is on the way —bringing with it bush fires.
If fires sweep your paddocks, will they lay low miles
of fencing because you are still using wooden posts?
Erect a WARATAH “Hinged Joint” Fence with
R.H.P. Star Steel Posts, and damage or destruction
by fire is an impossibility.
The post-and-wire fence does not offer absolute
security. Stock can spread the wires of an ordinary
fence, as the droppers are many feet apart. This
cannot happen with the “Hinged Joint Waratah
Fence, which has pickets or droppers every 12
inches (6 inches on Pig Fences).
Again what about resistance to weather and
extremes of climate ? All wire m the Waratah Fence
is made from B.H.P. steel and is heavily and evenly
galvanised with pure electrolytic zinc by the hot
process. Thus long life is assured with no danger of
rust. The Waratah “tension curve” gives the fence
greater resilience and prevents the possibility of the
line wires fracturing during frost.
Made in three types: Special Heavy
Fence —Tyeasy High Tensile Fence—-
Standard Fence. Spec al fences are avail-
able for: Cattle, Sheep (2 styles), Lambs
and Pigs. Write for illustrated booklet.
MANUFACTURED BY
RYLANDS BROS. (AUST.) LTD.
WORKS: NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
HEAD OFFICE: 422 UTTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Makers also of the following fencing materials: “Waratah” Wire Netting,
“Waratah” Barbed Wire, and the famous “Waratah” B.H.P. Star Steel Posts.
Sold by leading Merchants and Distributors throughout Australia.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA FROM B.H.P. NEWCASTLE STEEL.
sdfg
Thc> Onlu “HINGED JOINT "Fence made in Australia
I rise w ,,, H - —-——■
The Bulletin
%uf ifwwmt of %rn£m -fun fiJUuA,— s.
Vol. 51.—N0. 2638,
Wednesday, September 3, 1930.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


"THE New Library Catalogue for 1930 is
“ ow ready, and will be forwarded with
full terms and particulars, post free on
application to ’ 011
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD
424-426 George Street, Sydney!
Friends .say I’m “a. goof” as a golfer
That my “putting” and “slicing” arc weak
Each pal who stands by is a scoffer
When I handle a “mashfc” or “deek ”
Tn bloomers and brogues I f ee ] nobby '
Till a cough or a cold I endure-
And everyone favors my hobby
For Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
BambvrifM
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence Colleae
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. ’
Please, send, without obligation, pour New Free
10pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
pour Muscular Movement, Syftcrn of Writinn
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Nome
3f» Address
S.B. 314
SAUCE
WORCESTERSHIRE
dfg
THE YACHTING
PARTY
Host Holbrook Says :
“Yo ho and a bottle
of sauce! Aye, the sea
air makes the appetite
keen and my Wor-
cestershire Sauce adds
a zest to the snack
partaken on board.
Always keep a bottle
in the locker.”
YS''////////////'/////////////////////////////
7 wshsS!
/ _~r ' -V./' jS-MV. "
I -•• „ ~ £& S 3 , Si
‘••••••••' •
/ ? «SS
m
/-K
u-
ssss
i s *«* asemm
VM
t
IS
Desert Dravel
Demands
PERFECT
LUBRICATION
ED
&
There is nothing more dangerous than a burnt
out bearing when motoring through any desert
country, far away from garages and service
stations.
The old fashioned grease cups shake off and then
your lubricant in the bearing becomes a mixture
of grease and sand—Nothing wears the surface
of a bearing quicker than sand. Wisdom dictates
and experience has proved that these grease cups
should be removed and new “Alemite” fittings
installed.
The Alemite Gun (shown on the left) contains
clean Alemite solidified oil—can be attached in
a second to the fitting. Clean lubricant is then
forced into the bearing, forcing out, at the same
time, old, gritty, sandy grease.
15,000,000 motor vehicles are now equipped
with the “Alemite” Systems oS Lubrication.
Full particulars from
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH
Resident Manager
250 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following Representatives:
Bennett & Wood. Ltd. ...... 284 Pitt Street. Sydney
Motor Supplies. Ltd Brisbane
Atkins (W.A.). Ltd 894 Hay Street. Perth
E. A* Machin Sc Co.* Ltd* • • 535 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
Cornell Limited. 122 Pirie Street. BoxlG. P. O. 496, E. Adelaide
ALEMITE CORPORATION
Chicago, U. S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT-Chicago
ALEMITE
A Mite of Alexnite Ss Worth a Ton of Gritty Grease
The Smallest Leak Will Sink the
Biggest Ship—BUY a
ROLLS
RAZOR
and stop the leak caused by having to buy
hundreds of wafer blades.
The ONE BLADE of a ROLLS RAZOR strops
and hones itself, and is GUARANTEED FOR
FIVE YEARS.
Let your Xmas Gift this year be a
Rolls Razor
Imperial No. 1, 60/-; No. 2, 40/-. From
all the better shops throughout Australia.
Distributing Agents:
Mick Simmons, Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
D. Reddan & Go., Melbourne, Victoria and
Tasmania.
Misselbrook & Co., Brisbane, Queensland.
HAVE YOUR VERSE AND
STORIES CRITICISED
BY AN EXPERT.
Stories, 1/6 per 1000 words: Verse, Id. ner line
P. E. SMYTHE, 8.A., Dip.’ Ed.,
Hornsby, N.S.W.
AGENCY FOR APPROVED STORIES.
w HAIR.
«> NEED
here!
■UsjrUj--
dfg
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all traoe of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required, shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
SfcoUuris cmcxican)
Vkdruut Stcwn,
♦removes the grey'*
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (i/6), 6d. being postage.
fp
The Red Page
Sonnets of the Great
SHAKSPEARE.
H ?n? asc him who like a god lias shown
Ihe world in miniature from clowns to
kings,
And that green isle where swift enchant-
ment flings
Weird sounds and Love is ljilled by music’s
moan.
In silent light he glides, serene, alone:
We hear the sweep of his imperious wings,
We see his star with keen quick quiver-
ings _
Outsplend ring every star in every zone.
He stamped his signet on the brow of Time
And flung the royal mantle of his fame
On England’s breadth of shoulders; in his
prime
He trampled on his heart that burnt like
flame,
And hid his secret in melodious rhyme
Beneath the seal of an elusive name.
MILTON.
In youth as lovely as a spring-tide morn
He lightly sealed the tow’ring ridge of
Fame,
Then won the laurels and his puissant
name
Flamed on the flag of Freedom frayed and
torn ;
Hes ßrv,1 d in harness until blind and worn,
W ithdrew in silence’ when the lewd king
came,
In silence but with scorn no foes could
tame—
A warrior skilled and fierce though old, for-
lorn.
Thunder and utter darkness! Chasms of
light!
The earth .shaped swiftly quarried from the
night!
Eden entranced! The clash of Heaven and
Hell!
He, on a lonely peak unscalable,
Beheld and heard, while with majestic
• might
The billows of his song arose and fell.
BYRON.
He wore a mask of gloom with scornful
pride,
Riddled with shafts the serried ranks of
Wrong,
Leaped from his thundrpus chariot of song
And flashed the flag of Liberty and died:
oo snort a life and yet so glorified!
X hough prone to gusts of passion he was
strong
And like a lion faced the dastard throng
no, hot to stain his .scutcheon, basely lied.
He was the throat of that Avenging Power
Who purged with blood and fire polluted
years;
Sometimes he touched his harp in Beauty’s
bower;
In rebel moods he almost spurned his
peers;
But Wit has claimed and claims him to this
hour,
And lone Romance kneels at his shrine in
tears,
WORDSW r ORTIL
lie loved the reveries by lonely streams,
Ihe home-felt joy, the peace of starrv
nights;
His pinions swept him in immortal flights
Beyond the marge of dim remembered
dreams;
He dwelt with Nature and her vestment
gleams
In greater glory with his showered lights,
He caught her secrets from the glens and
heights
To shine unveiled in deep authentic themes.
When Frances eagles shadowed half the
world,
W'hen kings turned pale, when statesmen
stood aghast.
His voice went forth and like a trumpet
hurled
Defiance till the Despot’s dart was cast:
lie wore the bays with Beulah’s dews im-
pearled
And from his altars like a patriarch he
passed.
N.S.W.
ARTHUR ALBERT BAYLDON.
The Future of Music
The current N.S.W. Music Week suggests
an opportunity for considering the future of
music.
There are Jeremiahs who complain that
radio and recording instrument are sound-
fhe death-knell of the most democrati
ot the arts. In other words, they argue
that, now music is being brought into every
home at a trifling cost, music will die I
there couM be any more illogical argumen
than this I would hke to hear it
The radio and, to a lesser extent, the
recording instrument have done more for
music m 10 years than anything else ever
did in 00. len years ago the average house-
ho dev regarded what he was pleased to
call classical music” with the deepest sus-
picion To-day he is, in many cases, pre-
pared to discuss the ability of those who
perform it. It is a psychological certainty
that we mainly fear the unknown, and the
ordinary man used to fear “classical music”
because he didn’t know anything about it
fhe recording companies realised that when
they issued an almost complete catalogue
of the classics” in the full knowledge that
after the man in the street had been edu’
oaf ed up to them by constant hearing, their
liJif 83 es m tjile years to come would be,
all ,; he . “ore certain and profitable.
Music began in the home. In the reign
<5 Edward the Sixth there was written
such a wealth of vocal music as the world
has never seen before or since. It was very
lihcult, but that did not matter much, be-
cause men and women in all positions were
very skilled in the singing of it.” Singing
was an essential part of education in those
brave days of old; even servants were
chosen as much for their musical knowledge
as V? 1 fitness for household duties.
At the end of the day’s work, after the
evening meal had been cleared away, it
was the custom for the household to unite
m musical fellowship, chiefly expressed in
part-singing. Thanks to Sir Richard Terry
and others, England has in these recent
years remembered that golden age and
has been made to realise that William Byrd
is possibly still the greatest name in British
music.
Space is too limited to trace the origin
ot the concert as we know it to-day. Suffi-
cient, to say that, though concerts were
Known to have been held in London in 1675
f u • years later, it was not
middle of the eighteenth century
that they became general. In the nine-
teenth century concerts by virtuosi really
came into their own. And now, with the
promised perfection of the radio and record-
ing instrument, it looks as if their scope and
appeal will grow less as the years go on.
In other words, it looks as if music is
once more returning to the place from
whence it sprung, the home.
I cannot see any cause to shed many
tears in the promised demise of the con-
cert, chiefly due to the fact, that its appeal
lies mainly in the performer and not the
music. In the halcyon pre-war days, for
instance, when the immortal Clara was
Butting round the world, it is surely no
idle statement that her audiences went to
hear the Voice rather than the Music. Con-
cert-going was a social affair, and if you
hadn t heard Clara Butt, Nellie Melba,
tgnace Paderewski, Kubelik and others you
were not entitled to a respected place in the
drav uig-rooms of Suburbia. We know now
fhat during those 40-odd years when con-
-1 ° r f-going was achieving its most glorious
moments, British music was undergoing its
worst, period in all history, a historical
fact which proves that the only connection
between packed concert halls and musical
appreciation is a harmful one. In other
words, the more time we have to spend in
going out to see others doing things, the
less time we have to do them ourselves.
V e have only started to amuse ourselves
with radio. Ten years ago it was a miracle:
now rt is just as much a part of an ordinary
mans evening meal as his cigarette and
coffee. Heaven alone knows what .it is
going to be in 50 years’ time, or even 10.
Television is already here and I can foresee
the day when a complete radio-television
set will be built in every home in the same
automatic way as we now install another
Victorian miracle, electricity. It is not at
all likely that people will go out on a
winter’s night to a concert when they can
press a button and both see and hear the
best musicians and music in the world. The
wise musician realises this. It didn't take
Sir Henry Wood long to link up with toe
8.8. C., whilst m Australia Bernard Heinze,
Professor of Music at Melbourne Univer-
sity, is directing the programmes of the
A.B.C.
Tlie argument that this wholesale distri-
bution of the best music will aytomatically
destroy individual effort doesn’t appeal to
me in the slightest. You might just as well
argue that the wholesale distribution of
literature will stop people learning how to
write.
Again, for the past 20 years (and especi-
.y since the war), the average man has
tried to seek his pleasures in expensive and
foreign fields. He is now coming to realise
that true happiness lies in the satisfaction
of the spiritual. Music is essentially spirit-
ual and there is no happier person in the
world than he who sits quietly after toe
day s work is done bathing his tired soul
iff the invigorating waters of good litera-
ture or good music. I have been informed
that since the present depression the num-
ber of radio licenses has increased consider-
ably. It may mean that the Home, the
fundamental unit of Nationhood and there-
fore Civilisation, is being strengthened.
KEITH BARRY.
Indecent Darkness
The indecent publications 5 ’ trouble with
the Customs Department was foreseen when
the Customs Act was passed. On January 11
1902, The Bulletin published an editorial
article, “The Czar of Customs”:—
There are two points (among others) in which the
Customs Act of 1901 should be amended as soon as
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —Anthony Horderns’ unfailing policy.
Anthony Horderns'
(THE SENIOR STORE)
Low-priced Agricultural Implements!
Here is a page of implements that are essential to the Man on the
Land. All are the product of well known makers, and carry our
guarantee of satisfaction, complete and absolute. Free delivery
in the metropolitan area and on rail or boat, Sydney.
John Deere’s Red Jacket Ploughs, £6/15/-
These are all steel-constructed —beam being of special steel, with
high curve giving good clearance. Mould-board is of genuine
hardened soft centre steel. Shares of crucible steel. Body heavy
one-piece steel frame and steel handles.
Cut 9in. t weight 891 b. Price £6/15/-
Cut 1 Oin., weight 941 b. Price £8
Single standard land wheels, 12/6 extra. Knife coulter, 10/6.
Disc coulter, 30/- extra.
John Deere Ploughshares
Genuine Deere Shares are never sten-
cilled—the word “Deere is always
stamped in the steel on the underside.
We stock all sizes. F 6, 11/-; 302, 11/-;
303, 13/-; X 9, 15/-; 037, 15/-; 251,
15/-; FIO, 17/6; 278, 18/-; Ul2, 20/-;
295, 22/-
dfg
dfg
“Spra-Motor,” £6/10/-
This is the best all-round Spraying Machine
made it was awarded first place at the
Government Spraying Contest at Grimsby.
Fitted with quick opening plates. It can be
removed from the barrel or tank without
unscrewing any bolts or nuts. All the work-
ing parts are brass—has two outlets for two
lines of hose. It can be adjusted to three
lengths of stroke, 3£, 4J and inches,
according to the number of nozzles it is
desired to use. It will be found ample to
operate 8 nozzles at one time. Price, £6/10/-
Cask and fitting, 15/- extra. Bft. Bamboo
Spray Rods, 35/- extra.
dfg
“Century" Barrel Sprayer, £7/2/6
In this the pump is set low in barrel—the cylinder
is submerged. By removing four bolts the valves and
plunger are accessible. The iron base for mounting
pump on heavy barrel is adjustable. Base fits 1 Oin.
x 1 Oin. hole. The liquid is'poured in a filling hole.
Twin paddle-type agitator. Brass tube cylinder, brass
ball valves, cage and seat. Valve chambers are bolted
and easily removed. Special fabric packing. Diameter
of cylinder 2Jin. Stroke 4in. Air chamber is made of
2fin. wrought-iron casting 32 inches long. Gauze
suction strainer. Brass discharge “Y.” Price, £7/2/6
Cask and fitting, 15/- extra.
Spray Pump
The “Eclair” All-copper
Knapsack Spray Pump
has a capacity of 3J
gallons. Packed 221 b.
Price £3/17/6
Plombe, acid-proof.
Price £4/15/6
All Brass, for lime and
sulphur. Price, £4/5/-
Knapsack Sprayer
The Pneumatic Knapsack Spray
shown at right has a capacity of
3 pints, and is 7in. x 20in.—net
weight 91b. Made in special brass
alloy for use with liver of sulphur
spraying mixtures. Seams
double-locked, riveted and sol-
dered. ’ New improved combined
pump and locking device. The
airlock tube is incorporated in
the container —a new departure
for this type of sprayer. You
cannot fill the container too full
of liquid—it is air-retaining.
When the liquid rises in the air-
lock tube it seals the air in top
of container. Price .... 65/-
PNEUMATIC
' KNAPSACK
sprayer
The “Eclipse” Potato Digger, £6/17/6
A moderately-priced Potato Digger that is particularly satisfactory
for digging sweet potatoes. The rod mould-boards free the
potatoes from dirt and leave them where they are easy to see and
pick up. The high curved steel beam has ample strength and
unusual clearance. The strong steel blade scours and wears well.
The long steel bar divides the row and adds much strength by
bracing the bottom to the beam. Gauge-wheel regulates depth. A
really splendid investment at £6/17/6
dfg
John Deere’s Cultivators, 70/-
For fine work among small plants where it is desired simply to
loosen and pulverise the soil, this style of cultivator is unsurpassed.
The adjustable and reversible steel teeth, diamond shaped, may
be used either end up and they may be set either straight or
slanting backward or forward. One end of tooth is cut plain,
while the other end is curved and forged as illustrated. Steel
handles. Weight 661 b. 14-tooth 70/-
Extra tines. Price, each, 1 /6.
Hoe and Cultivator, £5/2/6
The “Planet” Junior No. 8 Horse Hoe and Cultivator
combined is a wonderful time- and labor-saver. Has a
steel wheel that does not clog; a frame that is longer
and higher than others; steel standards that are so
attached as to both brace the cultivator and withstand
strain; levers that operate quickly and easily; a depth-
regulator. Equipment includes four 3in. x Bin. culti-
vator steels, one 4in. x Bin. cultivator steel, two 6in.
hilliers, one 7in. shovel, all especially hardened; will
give long service. Price £5/2/6
fiteHSSßjjjj;
REGA —~
Under Arm Sprayer.
G
Spray Above, 19/6
The “Rega” Underarm
Sprayer has several new and
important improve men t s,
chiefly to the stuffing-box.
Complete with 3ft. 6in. suc-
tion-hose 19/6
At Right, 22/6
Bucket Spray Pumps, with
3ft. hose. Model D, Price,
22/6; Model B, 24/6; Model
A, 27/-; Model Al, with 4ft.
hose, 31/6.
REGA
MODEL
A
(Agricultural Implements—Fourth Floor.)
*
’Phone : MMOI
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS. LIMITED.
SYDNEY.
rostal Aaaress:
jjox 2712 C, G.P.O.


IO to 1 il’S a CAPSTAN
<3
'M
fm
• ty
‘ *m ft
V*V ..
fj
m
£ ai ;
-V
«5 , *
s .
/ ,
mm
i
m
' /S/s.
A \
■A
tswXW'--
jub
YM
#» %
m
swu
# \uamr
It’s a remarkable thing, this
consistent preference for
Capstans.
People whose tastes differ
very much in other things,
all chose the same cigarette.
You’ll find 11 good reas-
sons for this popularity
in every sixpenny packet
of Capstans eleven cig-
arettes made from the
pick of the world’s finest
Virginia tobacco.
“10 to 1 it’s a Capstan” is
recognised as Australia’s
safest bet.
Twenty • two for
one shilling, and in
tins of fifty.
11
Oval heavy-weights
in tinsof twenty-five
and fifty..
CAPSTAN
Capstans are made by W D. & H. O. Wills
at the Carden Factory, Raleigh Park, N.S.W.


LEADING THE TREND
TO LOWER PRICES
DAVID JONES’
MEET the TIMES
To meet the lowered spending power of the
Australian community, David Jones’ have by
better methods in their organization and better
methods in manufacturing, established better
values and lower prices. Here is an instance —
A
SUIT-TO - MEASURE
£5
Not since 1920 have we been able to offer a suit-to-measure at
this price I Thirty patterns to choose from. Australian all-wool
Tweeds, Worsteds and Fadeless Blue Serge — all new season's
materials. Faultless fit and cut. Highly satisfactory in every way.
See these new suitings before you decide anything — you'll marvel
at the value. Price . . £5
DAVID JONES’
New Store also George Street Shop
possible. The first is (c) of Clause 52, which in-
cludes among prohibited imports “blasphemous, in-
decent or obscene works or articles”.... What follows
when a Customs officer classes books as “blasphem-
ous” or “indecent” ? By Clause 229 (6) they are
“forfeited”; and by Clause 208 “all forfeited ships
and goods shall be disposed of or destroyed in such
manner as may be prescribed or as the Comptroller
may direct”.... ~ ■ ■
If the owner appeals to the High Court he may
get redress; though the Customs Act says nothing
of ways and means of obtaining redress in such a
case. But in practice there is no redress; for no
person, unless for the sake Of the principle, could
afford to take action. In the case of a rare book,
the matter is worse; for the Czar of Customs can
practically destroy all evidence against himself.
It is not to the point to argue that “we are quite
safe; the power would never be abused.” The
point is that the executive of a Government has no
right to claim such power: even sleeping tyranny
is a menace. The Australian Customs Act should
provide a clear and easy method of remitting dis-
putes to an Australian court of justice; and the goods
in dispute should be held for a limited time, during
which the owner could place his appeal before justice.
It is not in the public interest to permit any
executive officer, even the Czar of Customs, to exercise
a judicial authority which, as it extends to the
arbitrary destruction of imports, is practically final.
Amendment of the Act was not made;
and the legalised usurpation of judicial
authority by the Customs executive has
been a public scandal during 28 years. Con-
scientiously doing their best to enforce a
legislative Act which they were typically
unfit to administer, Customs officers in
several States have made inconsistent
blunder upon blunder. The case grows worse
now that the Comptroller employs “special
investigating officers” to detect “indecent”
imports..
When a “plague of witches” befell Britain
and the American colonies in the seven-
teenth century, many persons gained renown
as “witch-smellers.” It was their peculiar
gift to discover, by strange signs, wizards
and witches. Particularly by sniffing the
corporeal odors of persons suspected, they
could display Satan’s invisible world in
such wise that the magistrates could take
cognisance of the peril to the community.
But the trade or profession of witch-
smelling fell into disrepute. It appeared
that, when the supply of veritable witches
ran short, the smellers were apt to accuse
of witchcraft persons who, upon examina-
tion, were shown to be innocent. The
reasons were clear. They included the hope
of gain, personal enmity, and the vanity of
an expert actor who must maintain his per-
formance in order to continue in receipt of
public praise.
In different circumstances is it not likely
that the “special investigating officers” of
the Customs Department, having dealt with
the camels of “indecency,” will continue
straining for the gnats? Is not that what
some indecency-smellers have been doing?
Observe that, like the witch-smeller of olden
time, the indecency-smeller of our time
should “get results” if he is to remain in
credit with his employers. If he does not
regularly detect “indecent books,” surely
his occupation threatens to be gone—with
all its emoluments. What Comptroller of
Customs will continue employing an “in-
vestigating officer” who regularly reports
“Nothing indecent to-day, sir”? Is there not
before every “investigating officer” the
snare of a continual temptation to invent
“indecent” imports lest he lose his job?
The plain remedy is to take away judicial
authority from executive officers who are
characteristically unfit to exercise it. A
secondary remedy is publicity. In other
fields of government, public officers may be
seen adopting the policy of “Keep it dark!”
As the Scripture saith, “Every one that
doeth evil hateth the light, neither cometh
to the light, lest his deeds should be
reproved. But he that doeth truth cometh
to the light, that his deeds may be made
manifest that they are wrought in God. - ’
At least, let the dark Customs deeds be
brought to light. At least, let a record of
prohibited books be open to public scrutiny.
At least, let the sun shine into the dirtbox.
The argument that publicity will attract
notice to the books is stupid—since, the
books are excluded from the Commonwealth
before publicity is given. There is no
need to slay the slain. And, since the books
are stigmatised by the Customs as crimin-
ally indecent, their crime and sentence
should be published that the community
may avoid their crime. The Irish Free
State does not hesitate to publish regularly
in the “Irish Official Gazette” a list of “pro-
hibited books.” Need the Commonwealth
show so easy a conscience?—with so plain
a reason of shielding official acts from the
daylight of public judgment.
The “Irish Official Gazette” of May 13
lists 13 prohibited books. Two more are
notified prohibited on May 20. Whatever
the moral validity of prohibition,-the Gov-
ernment acts rightly in issuing public warn-
ing of the supposed iniquity. Is it not the
duty of every Government to promulgate its
laws? By refusing to publish a list of pro-
hibited books, the Minister of Customs con-
nives in the criminal acts of citizens import-
ing those books.
Ignorance of the law excuses everybody
when the law is not publicly shown, cannot
be publicly known, and lurks (variable at
any moment by official whim) in the secrecy
of an official bureau.
A. G. S.
Fixing Old England
I like C. R. Bradish’s method of criti-
cism in “What’s Wrong with England?” tB.
13/8/’3O). It introduces a new technique.
After dismissing Shaw. Weiis, Bennett. Gals-
worthy, Moore and Chesterton as “gentle-
men of a passe generation,” he goes on to
ask, “But who have they to follow? Aldous
Huxley! Osbert Sitwell!” And of the drama
he penetratingly remarks, “It. C. Sherriff,
A. A. Milne and Noel Coward!” Mr.
Bradish is quite right. But then, what did
he expect? Look at England’s past. Field-
ing ! Smollett!! Dean Swift!!! Shaks-
peare!!!! But it is the same all over the
world, as Mr. Bradish must have observed,
for has he not travelled on four continents?
What have we in China, past or present?
Confucius! In India? Buddha! Professor
Bose!! In Europe? Freud! Einstein!!
Beethoven!!! Valasquez!!!! Why, even in
Heaven ! It is only when we consider
Australia that we begin to economise in
exclamation marks. I mean, we have C. R.
Bradish (a fullstop will do here, Mr. Comp).
PARTTIME ENGLISHMAN.
A Satchel of Books
Christopher Reeve’s The Toasted Blonde
(Collins: Dymocks) is a thriller that begins
well and ends stupidly, A certain amount
of license as regards inconsequential, not
to say idiotic, conduct must be granted to
the leading characters in novels of this class.
Rut the idea of the strong, silent hero
wasting time making himself up as a ghost
when he discovers that the villain is about
to commit wholesale murder is a little too
much even for seasoned mystery-fans. Very
hard to swallow also is the villain’s need-
lessly risky practice of, so to speak, signing
each of his murders with a dead kitten. It
is a pity that, the marrow-freezing side of
the story is so weak, as the descriptions of
English county-house life are charming.
The entire gospel of Men, by the Scan-
dinavian authoress Karen Bramson (Chap-
man and Hall), is expressed in a couple of
lines on the last page:—
He knew it now; whenever two men came together
the one was in the other’s way.
To elucidate this creed the hero, Erik
Brandt, is taken through the war, all over
Western Europe and to Bolshevik Russia,
where he has some improbable interviews
with Lenin. He also becomes an English
Labor M.P. and a friend of “Lord Stan-
leigh, proprietor of the most influential
group of newspapers in London,” and
(though apparently a peer) “representative
of a city constituency in Parliament.” But
gloom floods Erik’s soul as he broods on
the competitiveness of life, and he eventu-
ally wanders off into the unknown with a
friend’s faworite dog. A wordy, pretentious
book, written with scant knowledge—so far,
anyhow, as London life is concerned —and
poorly translated.
Rev. E. R. Gribble, whose “Forty Years
with the Aborigines” has been published by
Angus and Robertson, belongs to the mus-
cular class of missionaries, like those who
spread Islam among the barbarous Arabs.
Of one of these it is reported that he used
to flick a recalcitrant proselyte into the
clouds and, though he went up a pagan, he
invariably descended a good Mohammedan.
Gribble was insurance agent, rouseabout,
gold prospector and many other things before
he became a fisher of men. He established
Christian law and order in Northern Queens-
land before there was any political control
worth speaking of. He first maintained
communication between his mission and
civilisation —or, rather, Townsville in the
’eighties—by means of a lugger, which neither
he nor his converts had the faintest notion
how to navigate. He fought the law-
lessness of both white and black on the
Mitchell River in Bananaland and on the
Forrest River, North Westralia. He finished
his long ministry with no illusions as to the
future of the aboriginals, who are doomed to
extinction, but at least he has had the
satisfaction of knowing that the funeral cere-
mony will be conducted with something
approaching decency and decorum.
Every writer who has risen sufficiently in
his profession to be reviewed at all has
been annoyed by some reviewers. That
was how “The Dunciad” and other classics
of invective came to be written. Pope,
Byron and the rest made the mistake of
naming, and so immortalising, their de-
famers. Stephen McKenna in “The Re-
demption of Morley Darville” (Cassell:
Dymocks) has profited by their folly. His
critics get no free advertisement from him;
but he scarifies them effectively, and his
method enables him, at the same time, to
explain himself. The entertaining job is
done on essentially English lines. An Ameri-
can novelist might have made the enemy a
gaol-bird or bankrupt; in France he would
be a cuckold; in China he might experience
“the death by 10,000 cuts.” Mr. McKenna
makes him a frustrated, middle-class Cock-
ney snob —tha- being the most despicable
exhibit in England’s hall of social ill-fame.
The novel is profoundly significant as a
study in England’s class complex, and it is
a revealing human document, for, whether
or no Mr. McKenna has intentionally drawn
himself in Robin Allerdyce, there can be no
doubt that Morley and Miss Welwyn repre-
sent his opinion of certain reviewers.
“Film Addict”: The talkies have just
about ruined America’s moral reputation,
and there are signs that many Americans
realise it. Going through the film criticisms
in a dozen leading U.S.A. periodicals, I
noticed that all the big society pictures
were savagely attacked, while Westerns and
the like, however fatuous, were praised.
Undoubtedly talkies like “The Divorcee”
do as much damage to the U.S.A.’s character
abroad as the works of Wycherley and Con-
greve did to England’s character in seven-
teenth-century Europe. It is true that the
Restoration dramatists wrote literature—
with the result that their libels on a
society which was moral on the whole are
still read—whereas the average talkies’ ex-
pectation of life is a matter of six months
or less. But then Hollywood’s proclamations
that most rich Americans are drunkards
or sex-obsessed morons have reached the
whole civilised, and much of the uncivilised,
world. It will take more than adverse press
criticisms to kill the injurious rumor now.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Edward E.: Quite right—once you admit
that loans can safely be made without security....
J.E.J.: Sorry, but we haven’t got the space for such
discussions... .Corollary and No. 9: Sorry, that’s
finished.... E.R.0.: But the Bulletin never objected
to co-op. societies. It approves them. All it objects l
to is the commandeering of the whole year’s product
of a man’s labor... .Gad: Your own history is a
trifle rocky. George IV. was in his 58tli year when
he came to a queen-less throne; Victoria was married
in 1840... .W.H.W.: Not without merit, but why
try to rhyme “doors” with “applause” Dangerous
Dan: A bit too thin... .C.V.T.: A turgid effort in
rocky metre... .D.H.: “The Poet’s. Dinner” won’t
buy him one. G.E.T.: Leaves us c01d... .D.M.G.:
Shanghai and Shantung are rather off our beat....
Bagman: Not moved by the spectacle of Dave falling
into those traps.... Thistledown: Petrified specimen.
... .Annette: Doesn’t exactly ripple along... .O.McN.:
Thinnish. . . .Book O.: Most interesting part about
that sort of thing is the distance it misses by....
Samuel Cornstalk: Even the cigar failed to pull
the verses through... .D.H.H.J.: Would have made
a good yarn told in par. length... .0.E.W.: Not bad,
but not convincing... .F.H.M.: Amateurish....
R.E.W.: “The Wandering Jew” again, and still on
the wallaby P.F.C.: “Affrighted Hunger” doing
a perish... .R.L.McC.: Prolix... .S.C.M.: Too obvi-
ously artificial Bret B.: Looks as if you are cut
out for rabbiting Nev.: Not very strong as an
answer... .S.C.: Started off all right, but developed
into the customary bush jog-trot... .5.8. L.: Trifle
tangled... .J.A.E.: A good deal better. Still, it
misses... .P.T.8.: Nothing in the batch... .Riom:
Hesitates, and so is lost. ... J.K.: Loose stuff....
0.P.: Your muse has been reducing... .Q. 8.: Might
find a home for it elsewhere, though it’s not as
novel as it might be.... Bellerive: Congratulations
on new serial, Sport and Sporting, opening with the
thrilling
THE HOLDS OF MODERN WRESTLERS.
Fierce tactics which enable
Great wrestlers to win
Are the toehold, headlock
And aeroplane spin.
The body scissors and wristlock
Stir a onlooking throng.
Everted is danger by the
Sound of the gong.
In the heat of a contest
Among the fan’s there’s a din
At the smashing force
Of- the aeroplane spin.
(.Next week: “Fistic Warriors of Old England.”)
. ...E.5.8.: Just average yarns... .E.P.: Story of
noble soul in the boot-trade pegged 0ut.... H.T.G.:
Scratched for the weight-for-age stakes M.J.W.J.:
“The Missing Codicil” restored.. . .T.J.L.: Only a
Color in the mining prospect... ,F.A.R.: Too long
and too discursive... .J.S.: Not quite... .L.M.R.:
Remittance man packed home... .S.H.: Persevere... .
T.P.: Missed this column by a whisker.... E.H.:
Picture of innocent tree screaming as bad men saw
it down declined A. 0.: First spring poem of the
season burning cheerfully Ganna: You’d better
turn down an empty glass for Omar... .T.1.M.: Bad
beer? Incredible P.R.: Merit in it; but that
unrounded sort of thing has to be marvellously well
done... .A.V.D.: You’ve got to put a ton more work
into ’em....Birr: Study Bellerive... .C.V.D.: “Eve’s
Garden,” and not a sign of a fig-tree!... .1.T.M.:
Thanks; it has been passed 0n... .L.A.C.: Not that
at all. Merely a notion that the other chap is
entitled to air his view... .P.W.8.: ' Now you’ve
given the printer’s devil the toothache... .M.M.:
Looked like a winner, for about half a stanza....
E.L.S.: Flapper still fails to pass the portals, though
she is a bit better dressed... .J. 8.: Afraid it’s a
long way 0ff....E.M.: Fairly good, but does not
strike a sincere note. .. .H.W.S.: Better send it to
Oleary... .V.N.E.: The Religious Editor fairly
jumped at it....J.D.: Held, awaiting a place....
9.M.W.: Only room for the fresh... .P. 8.: Fact that
shadows know it’s noon scarcely worth repeating....
U.A.Q.: Same idea better handled by another....
8.C.: Essay on apricots... .8.5.: “A Sacrifice” added
to the pyre... .C.A.J.: Col. T. E. Lawrence, author
of “The Seven Pillars of Wisdom” and “Revolt in
the Desert,” changed his surname by deed poll to
Shaw in 1927. At present he is an aircraftsman
in the R.A.F P.0.H.: On the contrary we are one
of Britain’s best customers. In 1928 we ranked fourth
highest (India, U.S.A. and Germany were the first
three), purchasing £57,980,000 worth of goods.
Canada bought £36,849,000 ; South Africa,
£33,249,000 ; and New Zealand, £20,059,000 worth.
. ...A.C.: Annie Butler’s “Glimpses of Maoriland” is
worth 75.; F. B. Lysnor’s “Dear Old Maoriland,”
55.; Robert McNab’s “From Tasman to Marsden,”
155.; and R. Maunsell’s “Grammar of the N.Z.
Language,” 12s 0.T.: “Lights o’ London” was
written by George R. Sims. It was produced several
times in Australia N.S. :>Alex. Montgomery’s pub-
lished works are “Five-skull Island and Other Tales
of the Malay Archipelago” and “The Sword of Sin.”
He was a member of The Bulletin staff. Died,
1922.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.L.L.: Weighed in light... .A.H.M.K.: Almost
made a hole in the basket T.A.G.: Only middling.
G.C.: One thing about your drawings—they’re
always sure of a mention in this column. .. .J.N.:
Get ready to welcome them home... .M.D.: Had to
be left out in the c01d.... J.R.W.: Feeble... .M.P.:
Look us up in about 10 years’ time.... J.D.8.: No-
account stuff F.W.: “High Tension” blew out
when it came in contact with Art Editor... .J.R.0.:
Try something bigger and send a joke with it
A.M.C.: You’re knocking at the door, if faintly....
N.C.F.: Draw firmer; and not so many of those
lines V.H.: The week’s worst? No, the year’s.
. ...V.P.M.: Badly put together... .A.8.T.: Don’t
like your brand of humor P.A.: Weak pun and
weaker drawing G.A.8.8.: Others have had the
same brain-wave... .8.M.: Can’t accept porridge-tax
idea. .. .S.W.: You slipped with that knot of spouters.
D.M.: Too slight H.H.H.: Excursion into oil
work disastrous F.N.: Very shaky...-L.M.W.:
Turned, down even at the risk of offending Don’s
admirers G.W.H.: Only f.a.q. juvenile work....
T.N.S.: You sprawl over a large area in your slip-
shod way W.R.; A veteran J.S.: Cluttered up
with labels and signposts.


nn
m
ISfe
■m
m
■
-
■
mm
i .
Cs‘^l
JHik
■:■ .■#: ws
. ‘•’Mb.
J
.-: ■ -
MHH
■ ■
BHH
■
mm
sill
■
m
':>",.,v
.
H
': ' -V
m
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 51. —No. 2638.
September 3,1930.
THERE’S MANY A TRUE WORD
PRESS REPORTER: “I’ve called for some political intelligence.”
MILITANT INDUSTRIALIST “Well, it’s no use coming to me for THAT.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 214 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252188 ; •Phone 87071.
Victoria •. 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queeuscanu : 2M Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westkalia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London :86 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 3795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 4 5 .; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.,
6 months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand,
Papua and Fiji: 60z., Id. United Kingdom: 4°z.,
Id.; All Sea Route: 60z., Id. U.S.A.: 4 0Z - or part
thereof, Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
SONNETS OF THE GREAT—
By Arthur A. Bayldon .. .. .. 2
THE FUTURE OF MUSIC—
By Dr. Keith Barry .. . . . . .. 2
INDECENT DARKNESS, by A.G.S. .. 2, 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON . . 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
OUR PAYMENT OF MEMBERS HAS FAILED 8
“LET’S ROB SOMEBODY!” 8
“GO ON WITH YOUR JOB” 8
THEODORE 8
PATRIOTISM AND CASH 8
TOO MANY GOVERNORS 9
THE MOTOR INDUSTRY, by Frank A. Kirby.. 9
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL .. .. ..9
POLITICAL POINTS (with cartoonlets by
Frith) .. .. .. .. .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. 11, 12
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 13
PERSONAL (with four caricatures) .. .. 14
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS .. .. .. 17, 18
BROKEN HILL PROP .. ..17
AUSTRALIAN GAS 17
PERPETUAL TRUSTEES 17
DENNYS, LASCELLES ..17
MICK SIMMONS 17
RAPSON TYRES 18
INVESTMENT QUESTIONS ANSWERED .. 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 20, 21
MAN ON THE LAND 22, 25
FARM QUESTIONS ANSWERED .. ..25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT .. .. ..26
SMOKE-011 (with drawings) .. .. .. 28
POVERTY POINT .. 31
THE PALETTE 31
THE INKY WAY .. ..31
BUSINESS, ROBBERY', ETC ..33
A REAL STEEL INDUSTRY 33
AUSTRALIA’S DEBT FIGURES .. ..33
POSITION OF AUSTRALIA’S SUGAR .. .. 33
PENDING TROUBLE AT BROKEN HILL . . 33
AUSTRALIAN TRADE AVITH ASIA . . . . 33
SHADOW SHOWS 34
SPORTING (illustrated) 35, 36
A.J.C. RACES (Warwick Fann) . . .. 35
INTERNATIONAL FOOTBALL 35
ASPENDALE RACES 35
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER
(With drawings by Frith) . . .. .. 39
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 41
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 44
NEW SERlAL—
‘‘Thirty Pieces of Silver,”
By Montague Grover .. ..42, 43, 45
AS WE SAID BEFORE (with drawings by Phil
May and “Hop”) .. .. .. .. 47
A COMPLETE STORY—
“MURDER,” by G. M. Turnbull . . 49, 50
VERSE —By J. Holloway, Roderic Quinn, E. J.
Brady 11, 50
Tfce'&vUeix/ft
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1930.
PAYMENT OF MEMBERS HAS
FAILED US.
One fact which emerges from the financial
crisis, though it wasn’t considered by the
agitated Ministers who met Sir Otto Nie-
meyer and Robert Gibson in Melbourne
and continued the discussions about the
run-down Prime Minister’s bed, is that our
system of payment of members has failed
us. We have given a swarm of politicians
full-time salaries on a generous scale to
look after our affairs. We have also allowed
them railway and tramway passes, cars to
take them home from late sittings, postage
and free club and library privileges, the
club and library being the most expensive
in town. We have permitted them to
manufacture trips for themselves, to set up
committees and commissions on which they
supplement their incomes, and to exclude
a substantial portion of these incomes from
Federal and State tax. We have coddlpd
them in every way; and they have repaid
us by landing the countxy in the present
mess.
No body of politicians is without respon-
sibility for the disaster. Federal or State,
Nationalist, Labor or Counti-y party, they
are all guilty, and to deteimine degrees of
culpability would be a profitless task. Week
after week, month after month, year after
year The Bulletin told them that borrow-
ing to the limit abroad for all manner of
gaudy undertakings, and borrowing the
interest as well, could only lead to a crash;
bxxt they took no notice. The warnings
of bank dii-ectors, the reports of Auditors-
General, the barometer of the stock market,
the annual trade returns, showing a chronic
and dangerous surplus of imports, were
alike unheeded. Utterly reckless, the poli-
ticians went on buying support with loans
and having a good time, until overseas
lending ceased and the jig was up.
On June 30, 1920, the war being over in
November, 1918, and the A.I.F. disbanded,
the Commonwealth and State debts
amounted to 778 millions. On June 30,
1930, they amounted to over 1100 millions—
an addition of over 322 millions' in 10 years
of peace and high commodity prices. The
politicians did that. Another of their
achievements was the ci’eation of a pro-
digious army of public servants, organised,
many of them, in political associations to
secure higher wages and shorter hours;
when the boom burst Australia found itself
charged with the maintenance of a quarter
of a million Government employees, nearly
all of whom had their awards. The huge
losses on war-sei-vice homes and soldier-
settlement are also attributable to the poli-
ticians, thousands of soldiers having been
put on areas sinfully small and dear; and it
is the same with the virtual insolvency of
the railways and tramways, which has been
brought about by the crazy expenditure on
speedways and the equally crazy system of
wage regulation, Federal lawyer’s fixing
wages and salaries after inquiries lasting for
years, and State Treasurer’s having to find
the money. The hideous waste on Govern-
ment steamers, trawlers, fishshops, cattle
stations, canneries, implement works, treat-
ment works, coalmines, copper-mines, fruit-
pools and fool-pools generally is also the
politicians’ doing. And, with the national
income reduced by 60 millions or more, they
have saddled the people with oppressive
taxes, clumsily contrived and exceedingly
costly to collect.
Australia will have to retrace its steps.
It has given its system of paying members a
fair trial, and the results are shocking. It
hoped to get for the money a trained body
of public men, skilled in making laws that
will stand the acid and intent on seeing
that the people receive the worth of
every pound voted. Instead it has been
cursed with an incompetent crowd of
careerists, windbags and deadheads, vote-
hunters all, whose legislative performances
are constantly jeered at by the judges, and
who are not only impenitent for the cala-
mities they have brought upon the nation,
but are selfishly determined not to share
them, if they can help it. There are excep-
tions, of course, but they are regrettably
few. A Minister has a full-time job, and
should be paid accordingly. But a member
has no right to a salary for hanging round
a closed Parliament for eight or nine
months in the year. All he is entitled to
i 3 a sessional allowance, with deductions for
non-attendance, and that is all he gets in
Canada and other countries. If he likes to
make it suffice for the whole twelvemonth,
that is his own lookout, but if he wants
more he should be prepared to work for
it.. If strict personal economy or additional
toil were required a better type of member
might come forward. In the latest recorded
year £365,000 was paid in salaries and
allowances to members of Australian Par-
liaments (Ministers’ salaries and railway
passes excluded) and £75 000 in reporting
their utterances, 90 per cent, of which were
not worth reporting. These amounts could
be reduced with advantage by at least two-
fifths. Moreover, a sudden end should be
made of Parliamentary public works com-
mittees. There will be no need for public
works inquiries or roads-and-bridges mem-
bers for a long time to come.
“LET’S ROB SOMEBODY!”
We take all sorts of care to get the people
to the poll at Parliamentary elections, and
spend no end of money to see that the
business is done with scrupulous fairness
the object being to ascertain the true will
of the people. But in what happens before
an election we have no interest whatever.
Rogues and fools may take charge of a
so-called political machine and, representing
themselves as this or that committee, may
draw up platforms, and threaten damnation
to anybody who dares move outside it.
They may go further and issue their little
thunders of excommunication, declaring all
“black” who do not bow to them.
Just at present there is in Sydney a
body of rogues, interspersed with fools, who
have decided upon the repudiation of war
loans and a few things of that sort, aftd
they have the supreme audacity not only
to speak in the name of Labor, but to
threaten even Federal Ministers with ex-
pulsion from the Labor party unless they
are willing to join in at least supporting
this suggested piece of thievery. It is time
these gentlemen were put in their proper
place. They are enemies not only of Aus-
tralia, but of democracy. The last thing
they want is an honest expression of the
people’s opinion at the ballot-box. Their
business is to impose their own or their
foreign employers’ will upon the people;
and they do it by trickery and fraud. They
put themselves, u±- are put, in their present
places by a system of election which no
democracy would tolerate, and they there-
upon speak and act with an assumed autho-
rity to which they have no right whatever.
This they do for the purpose of forcing a
certain policy upon the people—of leading
them by misrepresentation to invest their
votes in a certain political venture.
The law is wide enough to cover a con-
spiracy to employ misrepresentations for
the purpose of robbing a man of a few
pounds. It must be made wide enough to
cover a conspiracy to rob by misrepresen-
tations a man of his political rights. We
must clear our minds of the altogether
monstrous idea that in regard to political
rights and duties any sort of chicanery is
permissible. A vote, is a personal possession
of great value, and any conspiracy to rob
Py man . °f the honest and proper use of
it by wilful misrepresentation is a crime and
must be punished as a crime.
And that involves something more. We
have just witnessed this spectacle of a
small body in Sydney threatening to declare
all Labor Ministers and members black
who do not agree to repudiate our just
debts. Of course there is a ferment. N. S.W.
Opposition-leader Lang, seeing a State elec-
tion within a few months, and dreading
the effect of this confession of dishonesty,
ha.s made desperate efforts to get the
demands modified. Modified, in such a case,
means camouflaged; and the Labor party
cannot clear itself in that way. If these
rogues and fools—some no doubt of each—
believe in repudiation, the party which em-
braces them, merely silencing them for the
moment, cannot complain if it is suspected
of not having very strong antipathies to
repudiation itself.
A split in the Labor party is spoken of as
something which is always liable to take
place in the future. It is not something
which will take place; it is something which
took place long ago. Men like Scullin,
Fenton and Lyons are poles apart from
the gentlemen who believe in repudiation.
They have only been included in the same
party by a long-continued policy of sup-
pression and fraud. Every time this fraud
upon the community has been in danger of
exposure, there has been a cry of “Labor
solidarity'’ and anpeal to “class conscious-
ness.” But if “Labor solidarity” means
association with rogues, and if “class con-
sciousness” means that the strings must be
handed to criminals to pull, then neither
“Labor solidarity” nor “class consciousness”
is what the honest bulk of the party have
been led to believe. Hitherto all the ex-
communication has been done by the small
section of the party nearest to Moscow,
which by reason of its activity and impu-
dence ha.s exercised a power out-of all pro-
portion to its size. The time has come
for the great body of the party, represented
by the Commonwealth Ministers, to do a
little expulsion. Certainly it cannot con-
tinue its association with the repudiationists
and preserve either self-respect or the re-
fV«r» pr»TT'rr>TiTvtv,
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Go On with Your Job.”
Acting-Priministkii Fenton on settling
down in his leader’s chair last week said
that the best advice he could give Australia
tn o-ot on ;„u
was to set on with its job. Very good
advice, too , all he omitted to mention was
that it might not be possible to go on with
the old job on the old terms and conditions,
And that is the gist of the whole matter,
In the first place Australia has been get-
ting for many years past about 40 millions
annnallv which it did net cniti Tt Km-
nnually which it did not earn. It boi-
i owed the money and had a gay time m
spending it. Now we can’t borrow 40
million pence of new money, and the gay
time is How does Mr. Fenton pro-
pose to meet those altered circumstances?
If Mr. Fenton, back at his old printer’s
job, was working for a man who had been
drawing on his uncle and paying out the
proceeds, and if the uncle suddenly shut
down and threw the printer-boss on his
own resources, what would Mr. Fenton
expect?
In the second place, Australia depends
for its large payments overseas chiefly on
wool, wheat and metals; and these have
shrunk in value about 40 per cent. If Mr.
Fenton, instead of being a printer, had
been a silver-lead miner, and if his boss’s
market for lead had fallen in a few months
from 127 to £lB, for zinc from £29 to £l5
and for si ver from 2s. 4d. to Is. 4d., what
agam would Mr. Fenton expect?
Of course we ought to go on with our
job; and sooner or later we shall have to
or starve. But it is merely burking the
problem to say “Cany on!” and leave it at
w
The Theodore problem doesn’t clear itself
up with time. Rumors that that robust politi-
cian and certain of his friends had made a
pile out of the disastrous State-owned Mun-
gana mine had long been in circulation,
but while their party was in office they
were deaf to all demands from the Opposi-
tion that they should stage an inquiiy
and clear themselves of all reproach. When
they were defeated, and their successors
staged the inquiiy in a leisurely fashion,
ex-Premier Theodore was out of the State,
and his old colleague ex-Premier McCor-
ma.ck was both out of the State and out
of politics. Neither turned up to defend
his good name, but a mass of evidence
hostile to both of them did turn up, and
the Judge, imported from N. S. Wales to
avoid local animosities, found against them
in an uncompromising fashion. Whether
he would have been more hostile, or a
great deal more favorable, if the pair had
appeared, and given evidence and been
cross-examined, no one can say, for no one
knows what their evidence would have
been. McCormack lost nothing in the way
of worldly effects by the statements which
were made concerning him; Theodore lost
his place m the Federal Ministry and the
reversion of the Prime Ministership, and,
to the surprise of many people, the party
political machine took the case so seriously
that unless he clears himself he is liable
to lose his place in politics.
Theodore bohbed up from the mixed
situation as a man who was condemned
without being heard. He demands that
civil or criminal proceedings or both shall
be taken against him, so that he may stand
forth in the light of day. Premier Moore’s
attitude is that he is willing, though not
obliged, to take legal steps, but the law is
so uncertain as regards the name of this
alleged offence that it wants amending in
the first place. Otherwise the alternative
might lie between an acquittal, or a con-
viction which would be blown out with
costs on technical points. Therefore he
proceeds to amend the law.
The matter has an interest for all Aus-
tralia. Queensland Attorney-General Mc-
Groarty told his Parliament the other night
that dishonesty was not the name of any
crime known to the State’s code. Nor, so
far as The Bulletin is aware, is it a crime
in the code of any other State. A Minister
who dips into the till 'can be charged with
larceny the same as any clerk. But a
Minister may as surely rob the country,
and yet escape if he does it in the exercise
of his Ministerial discretion. If the
Minister in the exercise of that discretion
decides that the Government shall buy a
block of ground, and in the exercise of that
discretion buys an area far less suitable
for the alleged purpose than other avail-
able areas, and if he pays for it out of
public funds twice as much as more suit-
able land could be got for, there is no pro-
cess known to our law by which he can
be brought to book. In England he can
be impeached. But there is no authority
for impeachment in any Australian law
known to The Bulletin, and no court, akin
to the House of Lords, which can try an
impeached person. There have been times
in the past in at least two States when
Ministers should have been put upon their
trial, but nothing could be done. It is a
flpv in our legal system, and it ought to
be remedied.
__ <* *
Patriotism and Cash.
From a very well-known Labor politician:—
Some. few years ago there was a war.
Australia was mixed up in it; in fact, Aus-
tralia was said to bo in grave danger of
dominance by a foreign nation.
Certain patriotic gentlemen became
alarmed and claimed that the only thing to
do was to introduce conscription of men.
Australians owed their lives to Australia.
Therefore in times of necessity Australia
would be just in claiming her own—the lives
of her sons.
Once again Australia is in a time of
necessity. She is in danger of domination by
non-Australian capital. If Australians owe
their lives to xVustralia. then equally do
capital owners in Australia owe their capital
to Australia. In a time of necessity—and
this is a time of necessity—Australia would
be only just in claiming her own, the capital
of her capital-owners.
Yet there is a strange silence in the ranks
of those who advocated conscription of men
in war time. Seemingly it has not occurred
to them as an inevitably logical parallel,
that the solution of Australia’s present
danger is conscription of capital.
A perfectly fair question; and there is a
complete answer to it. In fact, several
answers:—
(1) Conscription of capital, even to the
extent of 20s. in the fl, wouldn’t pay off
foreign debt. Capital isn’t money; it is
land, houses, ships, machinery, stock. You
can’t ship land and houses to the other side
and sell them for the gold which the over-
seas lender alone will accept.
(2) You could no doubt get many foreign
creditors to accept Australian assets in
exchange for their securities. In other
words, you could oust the Australian owner
and put a foreign owner in his place. How
that would relieve Australia from “domina-
tion by the foreign capitalist” isn’t clear.
It looks a million times more like putting
the foreign capitalist in complete charge.
(3) The product of capital—all that capi-
tal is any good for —is conscripted. More
than one-third of the product of the capital
of the largest capitalists of Australia is
taken for public purposes by a single tax.
Half the entire earnings of big capital is
conscripted by all taxes put together. And
on the death of a taxpayer up to 36J p.c.
of his capital is conscripted.
Finally, even if there were no such answers,
it wouldn’t lie with the stalwarts of
the Labor party to talk about the merits of
conscription. They thought conscription
such art abominable thing that they flung
out those of thpir party who advocated it.
*
Plans for Making Things Dearer.
The basic fact that we seem in great danger
of missing is that work in itself gets this
country nowhere. We may shift a million
tons of sand and patch up a thousand roads
and be not an inch further out of our
national difficulties. On the contrary, the
more men we employ on unproductive jobs
the more we handicap ourselves in our
effort to put our house in order.
Our outstanding need is production—
production for our domestic needs and
production to pay our debts. What we pro-
duce to pay our debts abroad—our interest
bills and for such goods as we must import
—we must sell abroad; and to find a market
abroad we must meet and beat our com-
petitors. To do that means, generally, that
our cost of production, including freight,
must be no greater than theirs. It did
not need a Sir Otto Niemeyer to tell us
that: the fact is elementary and obvious.
Yet, instead of reducing our costs, we
are piling them higher. Every man we
employ on an unproductive job is and must
be a burden on production. We may think
we avoid that by paying him out of taxes.


But taxes are a charge on production. In
the last resort there is nothing else that
possibly can pay them.
So far as helping us out of our troubles
are concerned, unproductive work is so use-
less, then, that it might be better to pay the
unemployed a dole straight out. That a
any rate would leave them free to look for a
job at which they might be of some real
value to the community. There is, however,
a better way than that. The country calls for
two things: production to take the place of
goods we formerly imported; production foi
export to pay our debts. We ought to
organise to supply these needs. It may be
that those who could employ men on such
work cannot pay them immediately. In that
case it would pay the State to provide at
least some of the wages. If there is a
farmer who can see how he could grow
more wheat or wool if he had fencing done
or land cleared or another tank made, he
should be assisted with the labor. If there
is a factory-owner who could give another
man a job, he should get a remission of
unemployment taxation to the extent of the
wages of the workman. Of course, there
would be need of supervision. Of course,
there would be fraud even with supervision.
But there would be an increase of produc-
tion where there is none now. Remission
of taxation, where necessary and practicable,
would be an inducement to employers to
find employment; whereas taxation is
merely a handicap on the employer who
might otherwise increase his pay-roll.
The present system of “public works
is an easy way out of the politicians’ diffi-
culty. If it were doing no harm it might
be put up with. But because it is a tax
on production at a time when above all
things we want to increase production,
every other possible avenue ought to be
explored. Tasmania, always a. practical
minded little State, is already doing some-
thing in this way; because the waste and
worse than waste is greater in other States,
there is more urgent need for them to try it.
♦
Too Many Governors.
A rumor cabled from Melbourne to the
effect that Australia is likely to scrap its
State Governors is alleged to have caused
a flutter of apprehension in London, the
“News-Chronicle” remarking _ that such a
proposal would light a political bonfire.
Well, England must have grown very inflam-
mable if it will combust because Australia
cannot afford to maintain seven Governors
—seven Governors for a population about
equal to that of London. The Bulletin
prefers to believe that the “News-Chronicle”
is dredging nonsense out of the depths of
its ignorance.
Australia has been told, courteously but
firmly, by the representative of the Bank
of England, that it must forsake extrava-
gance and practise economy, and the
country could surely only be applauded if
it started at the top. Question of loyalty to
throne or Empire does not enter into the
matter at all, except to this extent —that
default in our interest payments would
reflect upon the Empire; wherefore this item
in the programme for avoiding default is
to the Empire’s advantage.
The Motor Industry.
Dear Bulletin, —“Tuart” (B. 27/8/’3O)
makes a feeble suggestion that the motor-
car is the cause of the trouble that has
come upon Australia. The unassembled
chassis (mostly American) is the peg on
which hangs the industry. Although Eederal
Ministers, when dealing with the problems
arising out of our adverse trade balance,
received many requests from economists
and bankers to reduce or ration very dras-
tically the importation of motor vehicles,
they did not do so, for the very good rea-
son that they recognised that the industry
is a vital necessity in the life of the com-
munity.
In N.S.W. alone the industry employs
59,000 persons, at wages totalling £12,300,000
per annum. Registration and license fees
in 1929 totalled £4,167,000, the petrol tax
£4,645,000, and the duties on chassis, cars
and accessories over £4,500,000.
“Tuart” has failed to suggest how the
various Governments can forego this
revenue.
More than 50 per cent, of the motor
vehicles in use in Australia are in country
districts, and most of them are used in
primary industries. The great majority of
the vehicles in use in metropolitan areas
are necessary foi' trade and manufacture.
The percentage of cars used for pleasure is
quite negligible.
In regard to expenditure on road con-
struction “Tuart” points out that the
Federal Government furnished £2,000,000
per annum, chiefly for speedways. He appa-
rently does not know that this money was
secured from the motorist. As previously
mentioned the petrol tax for 1929 reached
a total of £4,645,000. After providing
£2,000,000 for roads, the Government had a
surplus of £2,645,000 from this sectional
tax, which found its way to consolidated
revenue.
The motor vehicle is the only unit which
provides both Federal and State Govern-
ments with continuous revenue. Through
the duty on petrol and oil, each motor-car
in Australia contributes about £ls a year
to the Federal Government, and about £8
to the State Governments, in registration
and license fees. In the case of commercial
vehicles the annual amount imposed by
State and Federal Governments combined
represents from £4O to £2OO a year.
Too often the
motor industry is
singled out for
attack by unin-
formed people:—
Yours, etc.,
Frank A. Kirby.
O —
Better Than
Bankruptcy.
There is good
ground for the
overseas complaint
that Australia isn’t
taking the trouble
to make ■ itself
acquainted with
the facts of its
own situation; but
can’t the same be
said of many of its
overseas critics?
Here, for example,
is Sir Charles Mal-
lett, a superannu-
ated War Office
financier, com-
plaining »of Aus-
tralia in the “Con-
temporary Re-
view” :
“Its duties
against British
manufactures have
ascended to 30, 40,
50 and even 60 per
cent. A duty of
70 per cent, is pro-
mised against Brit-
ish hoop-iron, with
95 per cent, against
foreign.”
Well, what would
Sir Charles Mallett
have done in our
c i r c u m s t ances?
Here we were
faced with the im-
perative necessity
to cut down our
imports by 40 mil-
lions a year, and
possibly, in view of
the great fall in
the value of our
export staples, 40
millions isn’t nearly
enough. How
would Sir Charles
Mallett have done
it? How would Sir.
Charles have made
sure that it was
done? We had to
close the door; and
if there is any way
by which a Gov-
ernment can do it
except through the
tariff it has not
been mentioned.
That it does some-
thing, incidentally,
to absorb our own
unemployed is all
to the good; but
that wasn’t why it was done.
If it hadn’t been done, by this time we
should have had to declare ourselves un-
able to pay our debts. And for our own
part we prefer the Malletts of Britain to
curse us as high tariffists than to sneer at
us as bankrupts.
Dear Land.
Advertisements like the following are
creeping into the “For Sale” columns of
the papers:— , ~
“Brick cottage, four rooms, bathroom,
kitchen, £675, easy terms; has been let at
355. p.w.”
“Has been let at 355. p.w”; and obviously
the place was never worth more than 225. 6d.
p.w. To enable the tenant to pay the
difference the Arbitration Court has put
12s. 6d. a week on his wages without benefit-
ing him to the extent of a farthing. The
12s. 6d. has been added to the cost of pro-
duction, along with all the other charges
resulting from the effort to maintain half
the population of the continent in six coastal
cities and prolong the post-war boom in-
definitely by “a vigorous borrowing policy.’
So when borrowing ceases and world prices
fall we can’t sell our goods at a profit.
Not only in the cities and suburbs have
land values been wildly inflated. Fantastic
prices have been paid for wheat farms, sheep
runs, sugar plantations. When a delegation
of overseas farmers was visiting N. S._ Wales
it was taken to see a wheat-holding for
which, it was told, the owner had paid £l5
an acre. This was mentioned as something to
be proud of, and the delegation was too polite
to say what it felt. Wheat land at £l5 an
acre, and wheat now 3s. 6d. a bushel, or less!
Land booms have always been disastrous
to Australia. The few profit at the expense
of the many; industry invariably suffers.
“Wages must come down,” the leader-
writers say. But rents must also come down
if common justice is to be done to the
worker; the price of land in general must
come down. If the process is retarded by
absurd institutions like the N.S.W. Valuer-
General’s Department, which fixes valua-
tions in a neighborhood according to what
some individual —perhaps a fellow with more
money than sense—pays for a block which
catches his fancy, it will have to be accele-
rated. There are two jobs for statesmen,
if we have any. One is the scientific revision
and re-imposition of land-value taxation.
The other is the removal of population
from the overcrowded cities by the establish-
SISYPHUS.
“In the latest recorded year £365,000 was paid in salaries and allowances to members of Australian Parliaments
(Ministers’ salaries and railway passes excluded), and £75,000 in reporting their utterances."
ing of industries at neglected centres. In
the latter process, judging by cabled re-
ports, J. bull seems disposed to help, tnougfi
his main idea is to shift people from his own
overcrowded cities; and the Old Man should
be encouraged, provided he is willing to find
the money and the management.
♦
This Might Improve Parliaments.
The Parliamentary system was devised as
an alternative to the tyranny of kings; and,
like religion and many other institutions,
it did good work till tricksters invented
methods of exploiting it. It is chiefly the
party machines that have spiked demo-
cracy’s guns.
At the Federal elections Labor candidates
told their audiences, on the one hand, that
wages would fall if Labor wasn’t success-
ful, and, on the other, that Labor possessed
a mysterious recipe for reopening mines,
etc., without any reduction of wages what-
ever. It was on such fraudulent bunkum
that the election was won. In N. S. Wales
Lang may similarly eject Bavin with the
help of the Trades Hall Reds and various
malcontents. And it may be taken for
granted that Lang’s first move, as Premier,
would be to wipe out the Legislative Coun-
cil, which all but the Trades Hall Reds
would vote for retaining if there was a
referendum.
The lesson taught by such outrages on
justice and commonsense is that the un-
thinking electors who are liable to be swayed
by lying catch-cries at any given election
need to be protected from themselves, as
much as the nation needs to be protected
from them. They would be immunised at
once if the power of the machines was
scotched; and we should go some distance in
that direction by ending the arrangement
under which the taxpayers are fined a large
sum every time a Government is defeated,
Under real democracy Governments would
hold office from election to election, and
their supporters would be free to speak and
vote as they liked. In the early part of the
nineteenth century, when Parliaments were
as much respected as they are now despised,
private members habitually spoke and voted
against their parties. Members of the
House of Commons were given an oppor-
tunity to do the same in 1927, and the
debate on the Prayer Book Bill followed —
one which brought Parliament more public
attention and kudos than it had enjoyed
at any time since the war.
Australia’s Handicap,
„ Many other countri^7^icular i y in Europe, had
jj ecn in a much more serious position than Australia
was at present.” — Sir Otto Niemeyer at Adelaide.
No doubt it is true. But the financially
threatened European countries could not
have been saved if they had not achieved
“strong Governments.”
In Italy, under Mussolini, the problem
was simple. Take municipal finance, tor
example. For years politicians had been
lavishing money on speedways that benefited
few but the contractors and the underground
engineers who had manoeuvred for them,
The Fascist Administration brought local
government into line with the national
policy of economy and efficiency, and
foreign investors immediately began to pour
money into Italian municipal stocks. France
was less favorably situated for drastic
action, being a democratically governed
country, with a large and ably-led “Red”
element. Yet the Government got where it
wanted to get with equal celerity,
Unfortunately Australia hasn’t got that
kind of Government, and seems unlikely to
acquire it. Australian newspapers, referring
sympathetically to Prime Minister Scullin’s
wasted form and whitened hair, mentioned
that he had “worked for months from
9 a.m. till 12 p.m.”—mostly “interviewing
countless deputations of union- officials.”
Poincare, once he undertook, as Prime Min-
ister, to bring France back to solvency
without further borrowing (which is no
more and no less than the job that faces
Scullin), refused to confer with anyone but
the five financiers he had called into his
Cabinet to help him. He cut the cost of
government to the bone. “Reds” who
fomented strikes were told that they would
be put in gaol and kept there if they didn’t
leave off. Because Poincare and his Mims-
ters worked hard, lived frugally, and did not
discriminate between the classes, they were
able to call on electors of all parties to do
likewise; and the state of mind which made
the saving of the franc the personal obli-
gation of every _ self-respecting Frenchman
was created. Inside six months France (like
Italy) was well on the way not only to
solvency but to the prosperity it is now
enjoying. _ . .
Australia, which is stronger agriculturally
than France, could follow suit to-morrow,
Trades Hall government is the lion m the
path, and it is a tragic fact that there is
no one in sight with the will or capacity to
shift the animal.


dfg
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN {Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon, J. A. BOYD,
J. R. KIRK, Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand).
Total Assets exceed . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to L’olicy-holders.
(2i In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Asfwciation and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sue assured and no
deduction made from poncy or bonuses.
(4) in the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be oaid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately*
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost eveiy contingency.
NO EXTIIA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretarj.
GEO BRUCE SMITH General Manager,
POLITICAL
POINTS
It is a far cry to the days when Theo-
dore struck an attitude and said that if
London didn’t look out Australia would
transfer its loan business to New York.
Uncle proved a cautious and exacting bor-
rower, and he hasn’t improved with time.
The other day the Sydney City Council
heard from him to the effect that he had
lent it 10 million dahlars, and that “any
change in the control of or in the appli-
cation of revenue from the electricity depart-
ment” might affect his security, wherefore
he would have to be informed of it if such
were proposed. Staggered for the moment
the Council merely “received” the letter and
passed on to a more congenial subject—
Alderman Podder’s opinion of Alderman
Guppy.
Maoriland is also wondering whether
American millionaires regard it as another
Haiti or Nicaragua. Deciding to get a bit of
its own back by taxing their film receipts,
it has been told, in effect, that “we won’t
send any more pitchers to your Gahdam
country.” It sounds almost too good to be
true.
The Queensland Government will have to
find more revenue, as well as cut expendi-
ture, and increased taxes on bookmakers and
lottery prizes are suggested, together with a
tax on amusements —chiefly picture-shows.
When the Bruce-Page Government dropped
the tax on Tatt.’s to oblige Tasmania it
relieved the Golden Casket as well, and the
Casket would still glitter if a bit more were
PLAINTIVE DUET: “Don’t tax us— we’re
ROOINED already.”
taken from prizes. For the rest, South
Australia, with 330,000 fewer people than
Queensland, got £134,520 from its amuse-
ments tax in one year—and a bad year
(1928-29) at that. And the craze for
crowding to picture-shows is as bewildering
a feature of the depression in Queensland as
it is in the States which tax them.
Naturally the fall in property and share
values will affect the return from death
duties this year; all the same, the N. S.
Wales Treasury will collect £149,587 from
the estate of Geoffrey Fairfax, of “S. M.
Herald” —20 per cent, of £747,938. The
Commonwealth’s share is £89,752 —another
15 p.c. And there are the cuts from the
John Brown estate to come.
The unemployment-relief taxes are catch-
ing the rather numerous class of dodgers
who claim income-tax deductions in respect
of mythical wages paid to members of their
families. These persons must now buy
relief-tax stamps proportionate to the
amounts they claim to pay. They are squeal-
ing, but not in public.
Sydney “Sun” has discovered that the
N.S.W. Government is paying £Bl,OOO p.a.
for rent of offices which are scattered all
over the city—the Railway Department
alone has them in six streets—but it told
only part of the story of shiftless extrava-
gance. Over the way from its own head-
quarters is the Elizabeth-street end of the
grandiose Government Savings Bank build-
ing, raised on the “What’s-a-million?” prin-
ciple to put the Commonwealth shop to
shame. In this monument to the vainglory
of Government employees there are upwards
of 80 vacant offices, each so big that it could
be divided into three. And a private agent
has the letting of them!
Just as the Fremantle wharfies were
dragged into the 1917 N. S. Wales strike,
without knowing what it was all about, and
had a bitter time for two years, so the Port
Adelaide watersiders were involved in the
strike against the Beeby award, ordered at
Melbourne in 1928, and have suffered im-
measurably worse than the branches respons-
ible for it. Another ugly situation developed
at the week-end, when Adelaide carters,
timbermen and seamen were commanded to
cease work, by way of assisting the water-
siders, and the Labor Government received
instructions to remove the police from the
port, so that “the scabs” might be “chucked
off the wharves” as was done at Fremantle in
1919. As if the financial morass in which
the Government is floundering wasn’t worry
enough!
Minister Fenton got wild early in his
career as Scullin’s locum tenens, and threat-
ened to establish a censorship
of overseas communications to
stop “slanderous” tales about
schemes of repudiation getting
through to England. Of course
they would go more slowly by
mail (it is hardly possible to
open and read all letters), and
more circuitously by cable from
Maoriland, but actual stoppage
seems impossible. Repudiation
is advocated by members of
Fenton’s own party, and they
still remain in the party.
That’s where Mr. Fenton can do some
advantageous censoring.
Before Parliament closed down a protest
against “reckless Protection,” alleging that
“the incidence of the tariff on primary indus-
tries is particularly malevolent,” was carted
into the House of Reps, by Bill Killen.
According to a printed copy, it was signed
on behalf of the N. T. Pastoral Lessees by
W. Massy Greene —presumably the W.
Massy Greene, now a Senator, who was the
author of the 1921 tariff. This comes of
joining Hughes’s “Australian” party.
The bright Red lads of Sydney Trades
Hall are out with a demand for the repudia-
tion of war debts and “a five years’ mora-
torium on overseas interest.” It is a swindle
that looks easy, as most swindles do, and
people whose reading is confined to Commu-
nist-Labor newspapers and racebooks are
blind to the difficulties. One of these is
that nobody would lend us another sixpence.
Another is that the swindled countries would
boycott our goods. And Britain, which holds
£525,785,000 of our total debt of
£1.100,597,000, took £55,170,000 worth of
goods out of the total (£144,850.400 worth)
we sent abroad in 1928-29; while the U.S.A.,
to which we owe £47,842,700, took £5,831,700
worth. The Old Man’s other partners
bought Australian produce to the value
of £20,887,000-—£76,060,000 altogether—and
they would very probably regard a fraud on
J. Bull as an injury done to the whole
concern.
A referendum on the reform of the N. S.
Wales Upper House was to have been held
last May, but it didn’t come off through
money shortage. It is now provisionally
fixed for general-election day, though it is
uncertain whether the corpse can be revived
without fresh legislation. It is quite pos-
sible that Bavin’s scheme may be accepted
and yet Bavin be defeated. Then Lang will
probably put his pen through ihe referen-
dum decision as Theodore did in Queensland ;
the people there gave a large majority in
favor of preserving their Leg. Council, and
Theodore abolished it. A more sturdy poli-
Now, if he were only like this!
tical warrior than Bavin would have got to
work on Upper House reform a year ago
and left the referendum out of the case.
With a little more of the brigand and less
of the Sunday-school teacher in his make-up
Bavin would be a more inspiring leader.
The repudiation proposals came up before
the N. S. Wales A.L.P. executive, and that
body said neither yes nor no. It took refuge
in the Norman answer mentioned in “Les
Cloches de Corneville,” and decided to wait
and see. But it resolved at great length in
favor of a reduction of war-loan interest and
interest in general, and ordered Scullin to
get busy negotiating on the other side. With
“Though, of course, I can never be like him,
I’ll be as like him as I’m able to be.”
whom he is to negotiate it is hard to say.
He can’t call a meeting of the people who
hold Australian securities to the value of
five or six hundred millions. And if he asks
the British Government to legalise a partial
confiscation that astounded body will cer-
tainly refuse.
The Sydney Labor repudiationists have
grievously embarrassed Lang. That gentle-
man belongs to the school of vigorous bor-
rowers ; in his first Budget speech as
Premier-Treasurer he said this: —
It would be practically impossible to construct
public works out of revenue; if the State is to
progress then loans must be raised, with a con-
sequential annual increase in the public debt.
So he added 25 millions to the N.S.W. public
debt in two years, 1925-27. If the repudia-
tionists close the loan market against him
he will have to think out a substitute, and
he is not much good at thinking out things,
except epithets to heave at Bavin. In liis
dilemma the man from Auburn has mumbled
something about “a reduction of interest.”
Unfortunately it is the lenders who fix in-
terest rates; vigorous borrowers can’t be
choosers.
Hogan intends to revive the Farmers’
Relief (Moratorium) Bill which the Uppish
House shelved for three months in May. In
justification he says that already machinery
merchants are threatening drastic action
against Mallee farmers as soon as they har-
vest their wheat —and many of them haven’t
had a crop for years. According to Slater
the bill will enable all creditors to receive
part payment as parcelled out by a semi-
judicial board. But this could be done, as
the history of the Westralian Industries
Board shows, without a moratorium, which
is a two-edged weapon and apt to slip.
Admiral Marks, M.11'.R., having learned
from some of his Sydney constituents that
the firing of the guns at South Head gave
them a headache, has arranged with the
Defenceless Department to have the practice
“carried out elsewhere.” It will be a stiff
job shifting the big emplaced guns to some
place where they won’t disturb the Admiral’s
supporters, but Bill Adams Green, the
Minister, is in the mood for shifting things
—witness the removal of the naval college
from Jervis Bay. It was proposed, by the
way, to convert the college buildings into a
gaol for N.S.W. criminals, but the residents
morosely object. This is calculated to shake
Bill Adams’s faith in human nature.
After 17 years’ service in Vic. Assembly
ex-Premier McPherson has resigned. McPher-
son will be G 5 this month, and a London
specialist, confirming the family doctor’s
opinion, told him he would have to go easy,
the strain of public life having told on his
heart. He was happier as Treasurer under
Lawson (1918-23) than as Premier
(1928-29). He had little taste for placating
troublesome politicians. As Treasurer,
however, he spent far too much borrowed
money, particularly in 1921-22 (£11,804,990),
but he was never niggardly with his own.
His private benefactions to the domestic
college, the Queen Victoria Hospital for
Women, technical schools and the like tot
up to about £60,000.
It looks as if the people in charge of unem-
ployment relief work in N. S. Wales hate
to see a man doing a reproductive job. Any-
how, when recently a North Coast scheme
was submitted under which men would be
employed to put suitable scrub lands under
cultivation by felling and grassing, the reply
was that the owners of the land benefited
would have to enter into an undertaking to
repay the cost within four years and mean-
time pay 6 p.c. interest. The terms being-
turned down as impossible, the men con-
tinue to be employed in their thousands'
shifting sand and making speedways.
As losses on the railways threaten to
reach nine millions this year, N. S. Wales
and Victoria asked the Federal Arbitration
Court to vary wages and conditions. The
unions countered by applying for a concilia-
tion committee under the Scullin-Brennan
Act. The application was granted, but the
Court held that the committee hadn’t been
legally appointed; the matter was therefore
adjourned so that both parties might get
everything started afresh. The committee
consists of as many as the Minister
may think right, plus a chairman. It will
supersede the Court, which has had one
Judge (sometimes two) wrestling with rail-
way cases for years, but it is not responsible
to the taxpayers, and it can’t increase fares
or freight rates. In short, it is just another
useless frill.
The N.S.W. Budget is expected to bal-
ance, despite fears to the contrary—all
except the £4,000,000 shortage on the rail-
ways. No one can object to that polite and
Stevens-like way of putting it, which sig-
nifies that everything is all right except that
the financial situation was never so horrible
before. Something akin was the medical
bulletin concerning the last illness of
Charles I.; his Majesty was progressing
favorably save that his head had unfortu-
nately dropped off. It was Stevens who
invented the new reformed style of finance,
by which everything is explained in progress
reports save the one matter of importance.
But Bavin should certainly get on the track
of his pal Buttenshaw, and tell him that
if he goes round promising more hopeless
railways he will be bitten by snakes and
perish only moderately regretted.
A hint of a surprise which may be sprung
at the Imperial Conference was given by
Smuts, when addressing a meeting of his
party in Natal; he suggested that Natal
might soon have to face the question of seces-
sion from the Empire. The Boer irreconeil-
ables are gaining ground, and it looks as if
Hertzog will have to dance to their piping
if he wishes to retain power. And the Hert-
zog view is that South Africa could secede
by Act of Parliament —his Parliament.
Administrator Allen reports that Samoan
“chiefs of importance” are drifting away
from the Mau, but another complication has
arisen among Maoriland’s wayward wards.
Another matter for the Mandates
Commission.
The gatherings of discontented bucks
attracted “many dissolute women, whose
occupation has gone with the dispersal of
the men”; these females “accompany their
leaders in processions and annoy passers-by
with impertinent remarks and loose be-
havior.” In short, there is now a female
Mau, and Geneva will wake up if it sends
a delegation to the League of Nations.
It required an all-night sitting to bullock
the Marketing pf Primary Products Bill
through Vic. Assembly; it provides for the
creation, by ballot, of boards to control com-
pulsory wheat pools and the like. Nats,
were the opponents, and the struggle will
be renewed in the Leg. Council, though
with an election for 17 members due next
year some of the rural Nats, are expected to
get cold feet. The bill may be delayed till
Sept. 23, when the result of the ballot of
wheatgrowers will be known. Meanwhile
the Canadian pool, which is held up as an
example to Australians, has managed by a
great effort to pay 2s. 6d. a bushel on new
season’s wheat.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
HIS LIMIT
"No-I don’t drink , don’t smoke, don’t gamble, don’t flirt , and am always in bed by
eleven.”
"Good heavens! What do you do?”
“Just sit around and tell lies."
“Titmouse” • The latest outbreak of the
enidemic that periodically sends to England
wow heirs to lav claim to vast sums
that are inexplicably knocking about owner-
has occurred at Parramatta. In this
_ e n ® it is alleged that there are two tidy
3s wafting to be dug out of some place
unspecified, or wrested from people who
1 avc uniustlv annexed them, the Rose mil-
lions 1 25 of them) and the Hobbs millions
YsY The strayed fortunes are mixed up
in some wav owing to a Rose having mar-
vied a Hobbs at some remote period, but
whether title’to one means title to both is
not ’made clear Possibly, if the Parramatta
claimants could secure the 25 millions they
wouldn’t chase the other 8 too hard. A
rather sorry feature of the business is that
poor old George 111. is dragged into it, the
Rose from whom the Australian crowd claim
descent having been, it is alleged, a natural
son of the Sovereign aforesaid and a maid-
in-waiting. Before coming to these parts
he fought at Waterloo, and helped to escort
Boney to St. Helena. Through some inad-
vertence or fraud he seems never to have
heard of the vast estate that his Royal dad
had left him. There are a lot of holes and
gaps in the story, and, anyhow, whatever
George.’s 111. demerits as a ruler, historians
have been unanimous in describing him as
an exemplary husband and father. He had
15 children of his oven, too.
;J: * * *
“J.R.K.”: On the Saturday night when
the Tahiti struck trouble, many M.L. wire-
less sets intercepted messages from the ship.
Shortlv before midnight they picked up this:
“SOS standing by to abandon ship. Engine-
room bulkhead given way.” There was a
pause for a few second!, then —“What is
the latest cricket score?”
* * * *
“Capricornian”: Marvellous what some
men will do to get something they don’t have
to work for. When the Federal Government
announced that a dole of fl a week would
be paid to out-of-works at Darwin, all Aus-
tralia with a tendency to the dolee far
nientc pricked up its ears, and soon men
were dribbling in on the N.T. capital from
all directions, until the local authorities,
obeying an agonised jerk from Canberra,
announced that all was mafisch , as the Light
Horsemen learned to say in Egypt. It was
just then that four swaggies dropped into
Darwin. They had hoofed it from Clon-
curry, in Queensland, across that track
through Anthony’s Lagoon and Daly Waters
to the Katherine which many a bushman
well equipped with packhorse transport has
hesitated to tackle.
* * * *
“Centurion” : The news that a battalion of
the French Foreign Legion has been deci-
mated (in the original meaning of the word)
following on a mutiny will surprise few who
have knowledge of the Legion and its com-
ponent parts from other sources than mushy
novels. The French seem to have never
abandoned the drastic old Roman custom of
picking out every tenth man when trouble
of the kind occurs and sending him where
he will trouble no more. Their outstanding-
exploit in this line was in France after the
disastrous failure of Nivelle’s attack on the
Chemin des Dames positions. A whole army
corps mutinied on that occasion, and some
decisive work was necessary before the rot
was stopped.
ajs * *
“Nakhoda” : There is nothing original in
the suggestion of Dean Inge and G. B. Shaw
that condemned murderers should be allowed
facilities for doing away with themselves,
either in their own way or by poison. In
Asia, where a man’s body is considered bis
own sacred possession though his life is at
the disposal of the ruling powers, the method
has operated from time immemorial. Until
the Revolution ohinese statesmen who had
met with the disapproval of their sovereign
received a polite' message of farewell and a
silken cord with which to strangle themselves.
In Japan the right of executing oneself by
hara-kiri —literally “belly slashing”—was
jealously guarded, and it was seldom neces-
sary for the public executioner to supplement
the will power of the individual. In case
tne condemned man’s nerve should fail at the
last moment lus nearest male relative or
best friend squatted behind him with a
drawn sword, ready to strike Ins head off.
In Siam one had the option of being beaten
to death with cudgels by one's; servants. The
Malay amok was only another and more
wasteful way of evading the hangman’s
rope; the murderer ran through the streets
slashing at all and sundry in the certain hope
of being cut down and killed by indignant
citizens. When the Dutch equipped the
police with a pronged pole, which caught
the amok by the neck and thus preserved
him for a prosaic trial and execution, this
form of self-slaughter went out of fashion.
“Bert the Carpenter”: This is a small
world, verily. In an early stage of my
vocation I worked in an “antique” furniture
factory in Birmingham, where we used to
make by hand genuine antiques, using as pat-
terns pieces of furniture about whose
genuineness there could be no doubt, and
timber taken from old buildings, with the
worm-holes, color and “bloom” which only
century-old oak, walnut and mahogany
acquire. The peculiar figuring and grain-
ing of some of the pieces of timber he has
handled will stick in a tradesman’s
THE TEST.
“Why did you leave your last place, Betty? "
“Well, Mum, the boss was English, and we didn't get on about the cricket."
memory, and I never forgot a wonderful om
piece of Memrael oak which had been a pew
in a Vienna church for generations before
I turned it into a “genuine Jacobean side-
board. Last week I received the shock ct
my life when I was summoned to make some
repairs to a valuable antique sideboard, tor
which a sum had been paid that 1 should
be lucky to earn in six months. It was the
one I had made in Birmingham 20 years apo.
I recognised that figured oak at the first
glance, and, when I took out the drawers,
tnere on the rails and stiles I found my own
private system of marking tenons to mortises
by chisel cuts as an aid to assembling. I
didn’t give the show away; the old sideboard
is that family’s most cherished article of
furniture. _ * *
*
“Si Anu” : Borneo’s new wireless station,
which under favorable conditions can pick
up Japan and m the
worst can usually trans-
mit to Batavia, did not
seem to impress old Si
Vik very terribly, I
asked him the reason. “It
has all been done before,
Tuan,” he remarked, and
reminded me of an ancient
Bornean custom most
prevalent amongst the
Dusans. When it was
required to convey mes-
sages to a relative at a
distance or in the next
world, a slave or crimi-
nal was tied by the
wrists to a post with his
feet off the ground. Then
each person desiring to
lodge a telegram would
thrust his spear a little
way into the unfortunate
victim’s flesh, saying,
“Bear my kind remem-
brances to my brother at
Kotabelud” —if that was
the place he had gone to
—or “to Kinabalu,” if
he had become a spirit.
The whole tribe usually
clubbed together to buy
the human transmitting
station, who was killed
after he had served his purpose. Nowadays
a pig is substituted.
$ * * *
“J.H.M.A.”: Miss Egerton Jones’s “Gov-
ernor Bligh” revives sinister memories of the
notorious Rum Corps, whose officers quar-
relled with every Governor, subordinated their
duties to their own trade interests, and
wound up by kicking Bligh out of his job.
Nevertheless the rank-and-file, when its com-
position is considered —it consisted mainly ot
men who had made other regiments too hot
to hold them, and a good many gaol-birds—
was not so bad. There were few complaints
of the conduct of the private soldiers, and
Governor King went out of his way to praise
them. “The utmost order and regularity,” he
says, in 1802, “has uniformly prevailed
among the non-commissioned officers and
privates.” And that the corps was possessed
of real efficiency is proved by what it did in
the convict mutiny at Castle Hill in March,
1804. On the night of the outbreak the
Svdnev companies marched 15 miles in three
hours from their barracks near Sydney Cove
to Parramatta, and after a halt of 20 minutes
spent the whole of a scorching day chasing
the rebels round the hills and scrub between
Castle Hill and Toongabbie, covering at least
40 miles in some 18 hours of continuous
o-oing a fine performance for any body of
troops. The officers may have deserved a little
of tlie credit, but from what we know of them
it is far more likely that it all rightly belongs
to the sergeant-major and the n.c.o. s.
* * * *
“10-2-4”: When King George began his
reign, the Court became elderly. and ngh -
thinking, and the less aggressively moral
lights of society formed the Younger bet.
There must be about 500 Younger Sets m kyu-
ney by now. An evening paper, whose maga-
zine section is my sociaTTnble, had a par. last
week about the activities of the exclusive
Younger Set of the Slaughterers’ Union.
I learn from the same source that Sydney’s
Bright Young People have arrived. I saw
something of the Bright Young T e °Pl e
London in 1928, having a flat in the Adelphi,
a few doors from one of them. Under-
clothes Parties,” “Bib and Bottle. Parties
and “Pram Parties,” were their chief means
of self-expression, and alcohol in large Quan-
tities was obviously the inspiration. lhe
police usually intervened deferentially utter
my neighbor had been entertaining his tash-
ionable young friends for a time. Our Bright
Young People are holding their first revel, 1
observe, in the interests of charity. The idea
of a herd of youthful solicitors, dentists,
clerks, pastoralists and the like, and their
lady friends, putting on their pyjamas and
getting tight in aid of a church object or the
Girl Guide movement seems odd at first, but
Sydney has always had a knack of turning
West End of London fashions into some-
thing new and strange.
-Jc * * *
“Banco”: Sydney’s latest absent-minded
beggar is an unknown who left a substantial
roll of notes on a hall-table in a city bank.
The precious flotsam caught the eye of a
girl who was filling up a pay-slip and she
drew a clerk’s attention to it. The bank
handed it to the police, and they notified
whomsoever it might concern that the money
was waiting for an owner who could con-
clusively prove ownership. As might have
been expected they were inundated with appli-
cations, but no claimant gave the exact
amount or the time and place of loss cor-
rectly—it was obviously harder than guess-
ing the weight of a fat bullock or the number
of peas in a pickle-bottle. Failing satisfac-
tory evidence from the unknown it is stated
that the treasure trove will be returned to
the bank and may ultimately go to the
finder, who has a better title to lost pro-
perty than anyone, except the person who
lost‘it. Still, there are a hundred things
that might have happened to the latter m
this case.
# # * *
“Chizzy”: A fight between a bridegroom
and his 'best man is a curious finale to a
wedding; one occurred near Invercargill
(M.L.) the other day, and in front of the
bride, too. After the ceremony the best man
was driving the couple to Gore to catch the
express for the north. They missed the train,
the bridegroom got annoyed, and the pair
began a wordy warfare which ended in their
alighting and falling upon one another. The
spectators accommodatingly formed a ring,
but the show was stopped when the police
put in an appearance and took the belli-
gerents to the station. At 8 p.m. a hind-
hearted sergeant decided that the husband
might be let out on bail. Next morning the
pair were fined fl apiece.
*
“Goblin”: The accident which crippled
Joe Woods, Ballarat’s one : armed bellman,
was a nerve-racking experience. He was
working alone feeding a chaficutter, when ms
fingers were caught in the cogged rollers, his
hand and arm, up to near the elbow, were
first crushed flat, then sliced off in half-inch
lengths. His cries for help were smothered
by the whir of the machinery, but just when
it seemed as though his arm would be torn
from its socket, a cabman came in to buy
a bag of chaff, saw Joe’s predicament, and
threw the belt off the machine. Woods had
made a name for himself as a walking cham-
pion, and his sporting friends rallied round,
purchased him a house, and they and the
auctioneers gave him the job ot bellman.
One way and another Joe found lus financial
position greatly improved, and he refers to
his terrible experience as “the biggest stroke
o’ luck I ever had.”
SAGA OF THE SUPPRESSED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To drink with Jones is my delight
Upon the reeling sea,
In some blood-grim carousal’s height
Of roaring ribaldry!
(Jones is an ardent Rechabite
And I am strict T.T.)
We move within a meted span
Immutable, nor may,
On pain of prim suburban ban,
In baser bypaths stray—
Jones is a Civil Service man;
My line is linger-ay.
Jones has a mild and pensive eye,
A meek and urban face.
He doesn’t seem the sort who’d die
To win his lady’s grace,
Or even stop a spot of rye
And walk through Martin-place.
At eve I kneel upon the stones
And weed the garden path,
But deep within my pagan bones
(Ah, tell it not in Gath!)
I long to get blind drunk with Jones,
And chance the aftermath.
Like as two peas within a pod
Together I and he
Walk home, devoutly fearing God,
To share our Sunday tea
By ways a-smirk with sadly odd
Suburb-inanity.
Daily we chase the eight-fifteen
And sit the journey through,
Primly lugubrious and lean
In suits of sober hue;
Yet through our souls great seas careen
Beneath the blinding blue!
F'or Jones and I in other lives
Were swaggerers, I wot,
Who whetted large, bloodthirsty knives
And drained the plenisbed pot,
And kissed, belike, grave burghers’ wives—
Sans leave, as like as not!
AH things mundane must change or cease,
So all the sages say.
Aprds la guerre behold the peace,
Beyond the night the day,
Behind the burglar the police,
Repentance after cray!
So ’tis with us ! Whatever lurks
Subconsciously, who knows?—
Wild dreams of pistollings and dirks
That slit the throats of foes —
Jones now is wed to public works,
And I high priest of hose.
Yet here upon these cobblestones
Before mine own front door,
I from whatever gods death owns
Crave this when life is o’er,
One glorious, last carouse with Jones
Upon the golden shore!
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


“C.Q.”: A letter received by the head-
master of a Gippsland (Yic.) State school
was self-explanatory. It ran, “Dear Sir, —
Please stop the children calling my daughter
‘Tinny.’ Her name is Elizabeth.—Yours
faithfully, Mary Ford.”
* * * *
“Warihi”: A bunch of M.L. enthusiasts
are busy with a scheme for settling Sunday
Island, 600 miles north in the Pacific. There
have been prior attempts, the last one ending
in disaster; one of the two would-be colonists
was accidentally killed, and the swarming rats
prevented the other keeping any food or even
growing it. The Maoris, on their excursions
up and down the Pacific, used to look in at
Sunday Island, and about the middle of last
century whalers reported that it was quite a
desirable place. A family named Bell then
went to live there, but earthquake and vol-
canic activity eventually scared them off;
they left a small colony of goats and sheep.
* * * *
“Kris” : The Sultan of Johore, one Ibrahim,
is probably the only Asiatic ruler who was
ever held up at an Australian port owing to
doubts regarding the legality or desirability
of 1 admitting him. 'lt was about 1902, when
Ibrahim was still a young and rather rackety
monarch-—he is elderly and staid nowadays
—that he sought to disembark at Fremantle,
oil his way to Melbourne, and a zealous
Customs Department told him he must first
pass the test prescribed by the Immigration
Restriction Act. It would be easy enough
to bowl out a Malay Sultan or any other
foreigner by this elastic method, but the
visitor or some of his suite protested, and
there was a hurried appeal by telephone to
the Premier’s office in Perth.’ There some-
body anxious to avoid trouble discovered, or
professed to, that the Act wasn’t meant to
apply to ruling sovereigns, even if they only
ruled over a few thousand square miles under
the watchful eye of a British adviser. So
the Sultan came ashore, though the only
place he visited was the Perth Zoo.
TAKING NO CHANCES.
DOCTOR: “And what’s his appetite like?”
MUM: “Appetite! Why, Doctor, ’e eats like as though there ain’t no to-morrow.”
“Cygnet”: One of the minor advantages
of a bridge, like Sydney’s latest achieve-
ment in the building line, is that glib poli-
ticians can no longer win votes by promising
it. Perth needs a central bridge over the
Swan pretty badly—the dingy causeway
higher up the stream which dates back to
the old bond-or-free days being a poor sub-
stitute—but public attention is seldom drawn
to the need except at election times, when
it becomes a trump bard for metropolitan
candidates, especially those with Ministerial
positions or chances. After that it drops
out of sight again for another three years,
Scores of would-be Parliamentarians have
solemnly assured their audiences that they
will move heaven and earth if returned, to
nave the Swan bridged, and the sentiment is
always -popular. One enterprising member
. Cabinet took the wind out of all his
rivals sails a few years ago by announcing
that he was strongly m favor of the imme-
diate construction not merely of one bridge
but three. But if Perth has to wait as long
as Sydney did, there is not much hope for
this generation.
* * * *
Mells”: The discovery of the remains of
An dree and his companions, who perished in
an attempt to reach the North Pole in a
balloon 33 years ago, sets one thinking of
the changing methods and improved appli-
ances of a single generation. Balloons had
done long journeys before then, but 12
years were to pass before a heavier-than-air
machine could cross such an insignificant
streak as the English Channel. It was in
the same year that Cook claimed to have
reached the Pole on foot and was bowled out
as a large-sized impostor; Peary put in a
claim for himself a few months later, which
has been generally if not universally
accepted, Peary being a more reliable person
than Cook. Since then ’planes have done
what balloons could never have accomplished,
in Arctic wastes or anywhere else, by
anything short of a miracle. If Hubert
Wilkins can get to the Big Nail by sub-
marine, as he is preparing to do, explorers
will be hard put to it to find another method.
* * * *
“Achtung”: Mickey the Mouse has got Ms
at last, if the German press is to be believed.
The rock on which he split, so to speak,
was the picture showing him in the trenches
wearing a French kepi, while the enemy
consisted of cats wearing the familiar Ger-
man steel helmet. The
German board of censors
promptly threw out the
film as constituting in-
jurious differentiation be-
tween furious Frank and
fiery H’un. Somehow it
recalls a long-ago day
when a showman came to
Brisbane Exhibition with
two chimpanzees hight
respectively Dooley and
Casey. The uproar that
arose from Hibernian
circles was deafening.
The entrepreneur apolo-
gised in the press. In
future, he announced, his anthropoids would
be starred as McDougall and MacDonald.
They were, too, but I never heard of a local
Hielan’ man missing a whisky over it.
* * * *
“X.S.”: The law has an undiminished
capacity for making an ass of itself in Mel-
bourne. Lately a motorist was charged with
having driven a vehicle at a dangerous speed
along “St. Kilda-road, Prahran.” Defending
Six-an’-eight proved to the Court’s dissatis-
faction that no part of St. Kilda-road lies in
Prahran, although hundreds of charges have
been made and proved in the past on the sup-
position that it does. So the case had to be
dismissed and a new charge brought that
that the offence had occurred in “St. Kilda-
road, Melbourne.” Six-an’-eight could think
of no reason why St. Kilda-road was
not in Melbourne, so business was proceeded
with.
* * * *
“I. Temple”: Bradman looks like estab-
lishing another record—that of being the
first amapro to get clean away with it. In
Britain, until about 40 years ago, a pro.
occupied the status of a domestic servant,
and other 'countries took their cue from
the nation which then led in most sports. It
was absurd that a social stigma should
attach to a professional footballer or crick -
eter, and not to a professional tooth-puller
or will-drawer, and the end approached with
big gates. At present nearly all the lead-
ing “amateurs” in those sports in which
pros, participate are pros. The rule even
applies to racing, in which crack amateur
riders have started to use their publicity,
gained at Aintree and elsewhere, to go into
business as trainers. Tilden has been a
pro. ever since he became a tennis star, and
Suzanne Lenglen was palpably one before
she sacrificed her dream of being presented
at Court in London by formally giving up
her amateur status. '(The feudal idea is.
of course, that a Court would be defiled by
the presence of a pro.) Bradman has made
more monev out of cricket in the past
six months than many an old-time fl-a-week
pro. made in the whole of his life, but any
attempt to discipline him would be fatal
to the would-be discipliners. Clearly the
JSlwf ai ; ri Y ed i° st °P declaring champions
professionais in the punitive spirit in which
. uncial defaulters are declared bankrupts;
, \ m3ke the faet th at they have
ana Su e tG earn money by their industry
a id talents a cause for congratulation. Brad-
man has already had the highest cricket
degrees conferred on him honoris causa
by the public, here and in Britain. If he
publicly declared himself for what he is—
one who depends for his livelihood on cricket
and insisted on all the privileges of an
amateur, a system which is founded on lies
and hypocrisy would come to a sudden end.
THE EXPERT.
“Is she a good mechanic?”
“Yes; she’ll pull anyone to pieces.”
“Usi”: The escape from a N.S.W. country
gaol by a prisoner who burned a hole in the
wooden floor of his cell at the risk of being
smothered recalls a similar performance by
some Papuan guests of my own in the long
ago. The party, all murderers and from
the same village, were confined together in
a small cell with a log floor. Somehow a
firestick was smuggled in, and after a patient
night’s work a hole large enough to crawl
through was made. When the native gaoler
arrived next morning the logs were still burn-
ing briskly. With Papuan casualness the
gaol-breakers hadn’t bothered to put out the
fire before leaving, though there were some
20 brother Papuans locked in other cells
in the old wooden building.
* * * *
“G.P.E.”: The charlady put in a dilatory
appearance the other morning, “I know I’m
late,” she said, forestalling a complaint,
“but it can’t be ’elped ! I jest ’ad ter stay
an’ read about the Duchess of York’s baby.
Yes,’ she added patriotically, “I guess every-
one’s got their eyes on Glamour Castle just
now.” v
“Jim Domino” : The Singapore man
who regretted that he had left his
camera at home when he came on
a Chinese coolie hanging from a
tree (B. 13/8/’3O)
reminds me of
Fred’s experience.
He was among the
400 odd around the
Bathurst Memorial
at the opening cere-
mony some weeks
ago, when a breath-
less boy arrived
with the news that
a dead man was
lying near the bed
of the Macquarie
River adjacent. My
friend was on the
spot simultaneously
with a medico, and
as the latter bent over to inspect the
body, Fred’s camera clicked twice. His pic-
tures were excellent reproductions; never-
theless he was out of luck. The subject
proved to be only dead drunk!
* * * *
“Lone-Piner”: Said Bill Swanson: “How
them Melbourne people gets to know things
beats me. On the way there in the train
last month I picks up a roll of notes, 27
quids’ worth. When I gets to the city I
sees a tram and gets on it for a ride. After
a few chains it stops and the driver calls
‘King,’ and a little bloke with whiskers gets
off. It’s hardly got going when it stops
again. This time the driver calls ‘William.’
and a big bloke jumps off. A little further
on the driver calls ‘Elizabeth,’ and a woman
climbs out. Then the tram stops again and
the driver looks at me and calls ‘Swanson.’
So of course I gets off and goes for a walk
along the street I got off at. I hadn’t got
far when a well-dressed bloke stops me and
says, ‘I want 27 Swanson.’ How he knew
I had picked up his 27 quid in the train
beats me, but I handed the roll over. The
stingy cow grabbed it and hurried away
without even askin’ me if I had a mouth
in me face.”
“Jim Domino”: In Bathurst (N.S.W.)
to-day is a church organ which was brought
over the Blue Mountains when the present
city was in the diocese of Calcutta!
Originally of the barrel-organ type, it was
the first instrument of size to cross the
rugged range. In 1863 a man named Nixon
converted it into a manual organ, and it was
played at Holy Trinity Church, now over a
century old. An early organist was Mrs.
J. B. Richards, wife of the Land Commis-
sioner who designed Bathurst.
* * * *
“Stamps” : The change of Commonwealth
postage rates has led to some worried
people trying to utilise stamps cut in halves,
a device which the G.P.O. authorities have
promptly refused to sanction. They weren’t
always so particular. At Sydney Repat. a
few years ago a
clerk with a know-
ledge of used-stamp
values noticed a letter
on which half a shil-
ling stamp, used to
pay a sixpenny post-
age, had been duly
cancelled by the post-
mark. The philatelist
to whom he rushed
his find during the
lunch hour gave him
ten bob for the
curiosity.
“Exdig”: As war-time agriculturists the
Diggers did best with carrots; in fact, they
did so well with them, on the ground between
railway tracks and in similar unlikely spots,
that the vegetable became about as popular
as plum-and-apple jam. It was in the spring
of 1918 that the military heads became
impressed with the tremendous saving that
would be effected if the army could be
induced to become its own market-gardener
in certain lines. The Salvage Corps dug out
old rusty ploughs and other implements
from abandoned farms, and all sorts of
seeds were provided'. When the Germans
were reported to have made a break in the
British lines and all kinds of calamities
were prophesied, Baldy, our most enthusias-
tic agriculturist, was the most perturbed man
in the company. “Them blasted ’Uns ’ll
be eating our cabbages yet,” he grumbled
disgustedly.
* * * *
“Iford”: Thirty-five years ago I picked
up a book by Ernest Favenc in a pub at
Mullewa (W.A.), the jumping-off place for
the Murchison goldfields. Bung, seeing me
immersed in it, mentioned that it was a
present to him from the author, who had
recently stayed under his roof. I said I
had never heard of Favenc being in the
West, but mine host insisted it was so, and
added that the writer had been received by
the local progress committee and hospitably
entertained as befitted his reputation as an
authority on Australian exploration. The
whole matter had passed from my mind when
it was revived 10 or 12 years later by
reading a paragraph in The Bulletin from
a N. S. Wales resident —“somebody in Pa
Brunker’s constituency” was the only clue
given about his identity—offering a profound
apology for having impersonated its well-
known contributor Favenc in Westralia
many years before.. The Bulletin pub-
lished the Maitland man’s amende in a dazed
sort of way, as if wondering what it was all
about. I don’t know why the impostor
should have become conscience-stricken after
all those years, or what he got out of his
impersonation beyond flattered vanity and
free drinks. And he must have given away
quite a number of autographed copies of the
book he never wrote.
* * * *
“Baldy”: I suppose it comes from
America, the notion that only the unchival-
rous male of the species keeps his hat on in
a lift when a lady enters. It may be ultra-
courteous, but I regard it as • illogical to
the verge of fatuousness. A lift is merely
a cage used for transport, in which respect
it differs nothing from a tram or a ’bus,
except that it goes up and down instead of
along the surface and is generally much
better ventilated. If the thorough gentleman
feels it incumbent on him to stand un-
covered in a lift when one of the other sex
is among the passengers, why does he sit
covered in a tram or a ’bus or a railway
carriage ?
* * * Hi
“Runa”: Here is another case of a trivial
accident determining a man’s calling (B.
27/8/’30) ; When certain examination lists
were published the bright boy of a suburban
family failed to find his name among the
successful candidates. Father, who had
made extensive sacrifices to give the lad his
chance, took the matter badly; he was con-
vinced that the youth had loafed, and com-
manded him to choose some humbler calling
immediately. At random the boy elected to
become a chemist; a few hours later a small
premium had been paid to the local pill-
vendor, and the new hand was outside on
a step-ladder cleaning the windows. That
night when he went home there was an
official letter for him, which Dad grumpily
bade him open and discover the cause of his
failure. But there was no word of failure.
The lad had passed brilliantly, and a care-
less newspaper report had omitted his name.
After some discussion he decided to stick
to the chemist’s shop, and to-day a successful
surgeon will tell you that his start in his
profession was purely the result of a
printer’s slip.
IN THE BAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“He only makes love when he’s shot,”
She was suddenly moved to declare
When I asked if a wedding were not,
As a fellow might say, in the air.
I reckoned, so often he’s there,
A lien on the lady he’d got.
But she said, as she patted her hair:
“He only makes love when he’s shot.
“No knowing,” she said, “that his lot
I mightn’t be ready to share.
Though he hasn’t a station, a yacht
Or a motor, I reckon him square.
I’m his soul-mate, he often will swear,
His dearest and daintiest Dot.
But how can I tell if he care?
He only makes love when he’s shot.
“His beer he can sink by the pot,
For. rum he’s capacity rare,
But lie never gets ardently hot
Or finds me distractingly fair
Till he’s swallowed enough and to spare.
Then I wonder if Tom or the tot
Is courting me—which of the pair?
He only makes love when he’s shot!”
She rattled the publican’s ware
And mopped from the counter a spot,
And closed, with a touch of despair,
“He only makes love when he’s shot!”
N.S.W.
MIDEORD.


Old Mother Hubbard
Lost the key of the cupboard
On which she had sponged fop hep meat
Well,she said to the pup,
Ct
Our old loafing game's up;
Henceforth we must earn what we eat?
THE SAD STORY OF MRS. AUSTRALIA-HUBBARD.


‘‘THE MARINE COURT,” by C. H. Percival.
A* etching of the criginal drawing, “The Marine
Court,” which appeared in The Bulletin of
March 5, 1930, has been prepared by the artist, and
a limited number of copies may be obtained on
application to him, C/o The Bulletin Office, George
Street North, Sydney. Size, 14 x 10. Price, £2/2/-
Also etchings of “Sea Legs” (B. 6/11/’29), “Here’s
a Bloke Workin’ ” (B. 15/5/’24), and “The Last
Tram” (B. 22/6/’22). Further particulars from the
artist.
All the Best is in the, West,
And the best thing in the West is
“THE BARRIER MINER”
newspaper, the Great Western Daily
with the wonderful history.
Such a medium for Advertisements!
If any illustration in “The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
&
TecalemiT Ltd.
LUBRICATION EXPERTS
MITRE HOUSE, SCRUBBS LANE,
WILLESDEN, LONDON, N.W. 10
TecalemiT
LUBRICATION BY AUTOMATIC
HAND GUNS.
HIGH PRESSURES WITH CLEANLINESS
AND AUTOMATIC ACTION OPERATED
BY ONE HAND ONLY.
(Slide-on or Push~on Connectors.)
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street Perth
Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street Adelaide
Keep Bros. & Wood Pty., Ltd., Bateman Street .. Melbourne
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street Sydney
Martin, Wilson Bros., Ltd., 299 Adelaide Street .. Brisbane
/ Factory Representative:
Mr. James Thornell, 312 Pitt Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some September birthdays :—-
S. Aus. ex-Speaker Laffer, 64, Kenneth Austin
(Syd.), 48, and G. D. Delprat, C.8.E., 74, on Ist;
Prof. Brereton (Syd.), 59, and Archbishop Duhig
(Bris.), 59, on 2nd; Brig.-Gen. C. H. Brand, 57,
and Arthur W. Jose, 67, on 4th; Melb. barrister
A. D. Ellis, Litt.D., 45, on sth; artist Chas. Nuttall,
58, on 6th; Q’land Treasurer Barnes, 72, and C. J.
Dennis (“Sentimental Bloke”), 54, on 7th;
Bishop Coleman (Armidale), 43, on Bth; Bishop
Wilson (Bunbury), 70, Justice Piddington, 68, Capt.
Storkey, V.C., 39, and Dr. J. M. Baldwin (Vic.
Government Astronomer), 52, on 9th; Mayor Laving-
ton Bonython (Adel.), 55, on 10th; General Bird-
wood, 65, and Vic. Senator J. F. Guthrie, 58, on
13th; Justice Northmore (W.A.), 65, on 14th;
Federal Minister J. A. Lyons, 51, Colonel Percy
Owen, C.8.E., 66, and Colonel G. Hurry (ex-M.H.R.
for Bendigo), 62, on 15th; John C. Morphett
(formerly Clerk of S. Aus. Parliaments), 86, R. W.
Robson (editor of “Newspaper News,” Syd.), 45,
and W.A. botanist W. M. Came, 45, on 16th;
Bishop McGuire (Townsville), 49, Prof. Walter
Murdoch (W.A.), 56, and Australian actor
Otto Heggie (in U.S.A.), 63, on 17th; Prime
Minister J. H. Scullin, 54, Justice McArthur (Vic.),
69, Melb. architect W. A. M. Blackett, 57, and
Commonwealth Railways Commissioner Gahan, 49,
on 18th ; ex-Vic. Premier McPherson, 65, and Major-
Gen. Edwin Tivey, 64, on 19th; Prof. Nicholson
(Syd.), 55, on 20th; Philip Charley, 67, and Col.
F. B. Heritage, 53, on 21st; Major-Gen. Brudenell
White, 54, on 23rd; Bishop Hay (Hobart), 63, and
Sam Hordern, 54, on 24th; Billy Hughes, 66, on
ALEC McGILL, who represented the
Queensland Government in the Mun-
gana Commission, and has been advising
Ministers in the matter of Theodore
and McCormack.
25th; Chief Justice Murray (S. Aus.), 67, and
Josiah Symon, K.C. (S. Aus.), 84, on 27th; H. W.
Gepp, 53, and Prof. Oxen (Ormond Coll.), 62, on
28th; Canon Wray (Wangaratta), 66, Brig.-Gen. T.
Griffiths, 65, artist Rupert Bunny, 66, Donald Mac,
kinnon (Vic.), 71, on 29th; and Brig.-Gen. W.
Grant (Q.), 60, on 30th.
McPherson’s retirement from Vic. Assembly
reduces to 15 the number of pre-war mem-
bers in the House. Only three, Peacock,
Prendergast and Toutcher, date back to pre-
Federation days.
Archibald Mac Diarmid, dead in Adelaide
at 80, was a quiet Scotch lawyer who came
to S.A. many years ago, married one of the
Melrose pastoralist clan, and stayed. Never
prominent, he was universally respected.
Judge Piper was at one time his junior
partner.
“T.P.”: Archbishop Julius, of Christr
church, now in his 84th year, undoubtedly
rather “shocked the orthodox” when Arch-
Dr. ARGYLE, the
new leader of the
Nationalist party in
Victoria.
deacon of Ballarat
in the ’nineties (B.
20/8/’3O) ; and
they included his
superior, Bishop
Thornton. The
latter had ukased
that audiences in
all consecrated
buildings, even
tiny backblocks
churches, should be
instructed never to
clap or applaud at
enter tainments;
they must merely
“elevate their hands
in token of appro-
val.” The uncon-
ventional Julius
got even on one
occasion when folk
roared at his jokes.
“Hush,” said he
sadly, “if you
think it funny ele-
vate your hands
and open and close
your mouths noise-
lessly—so !” The
Bishop ultimately
found it dangerous,
to tread on the tail
of his archdeacon’s
coat. Julius was
an expert boxer in
those days; in
Sturt - street he
once helped to
arrest and lock up
two roughs who
had knocked down
a constable and
were putting the
boot into him. A
Bulletin of the
, period cartooned
him m an outsize helmet under the caption
“Police-constable Julius.”
W. Oliver, of. South Yarra, Australia’s
most travelled air passenger, returned the
other day from twice girdling the continent
in the monoplane Lasconder. With him
were his son, septuagenarian architect Peck
and S. Nurminen, with that great pilot F.
Neale at the joystick. Their holiday took
them to Mount Isa, Camooweal and Darwin.
At Darwin they exchanged the aeroplane for
a launch and cruised about the Arafura Sea,
visiting Bathurst and Melville islands. Then
they had a look at Central Australia, partly
from a motor-car. They finished with a
glance at Lake Eyre and a day or two at
Adelaide. It all took little more than a
. month.
Professor Gregory found himself in in-
stant demand when he dropped in at Adel-
aide. Years ago a small fund was left by
Joseph Fisher, an old-time merchant, to pay
some financial expert to give a periodical
commerce lecture at the University, but the
trouble has always been to find the man
and the subject. This year there was no
doubt about either. The professor from
London was promptly booked to explain Cur-
rent Problems in International Finance.
Captain Bergendahl, skipper of the
Swedish motor-ship Mirrabooka, now dis-
charging in Melbourne, was engaged on one
of the searches for traces of Andr6e, the
balloonist, whose remains have just been
found perfectly preserved in ice since 1897.
In 1901 Bergendahl was chief officer on
the America, which combined the quest for
the lost explorer with an attempt to reach
the North Pole. A buoy and a pigeon that
had carried a message from Andrge and his
companions were all that they discovered.
Few journalists have had so many flatter-
ing tributes paid them as Julian Woods, of
Adelaide, when lie was presented on his
retirement the other day with a testimonial in
the shape of a cheque for £lOO from A.J.A.
men. And, apart from his years of strenuous
work for the association, they were well
deserved, as all of Woods’s old colleagues on
numerous newspapers can testify. He has
over 40 years of journalism to look back on,
mostly on the daily press, and he was as
universal a favorite in Perth as in Adelaide.
J. E. Dodgshun, who filed his last invoice
in Melbourne the other day, was one of
the city’s leading warehousemen for over
half a century. The firm in Flinders-lane
which bears his name is an offshoot of
Dodgshun, Dickinson and Co., of Leeds,
which was founded in 1790. The Australian
members of the family have yellowing letter-
books bearing dates from the beginning of
last century.
TV hen Mulga” Taylor, shearer, miner and
militant unionist, had been a few months
in the Westralian Assembly he told the
House disgustedly that it was the worst-paid
job he had ever held in his life—the remu-
neration was only £2OO a year in those frugal
days. Mulga kept liis seat from 1901 to
the last general elections, and during the
period Parliament thrice raised salaries, and
in addition he had two or three terms in
the Speaker's chair. And, though no longer
an M.L.A., his luck has held to him, the pre-
sent Government having rewarded his past
services with a much-sought-after billet in
the Licensing Court, which travels around
the State to decide where new pubs are
needed and existing ones can be dispensed
with.
Three new K.C.’s have been appointed in a
bunch by S.A. Supreme Court, to fill the
unusual gap caused by the deaths of Bennett
and Ingleby, the retirements of Symon and
Glynn and various promotions to the Bench.
Ligertwood has been Associate to both the
present and the late Chief Justice. Herbert
Mayo and Harry Thomson are both on the
Council of the Law Society, Thomson having
a^ so been a Rhodeg Scholar and a winner of
the M.C. in. the war. All three are in their
early forties.
Emily Young, just dead on Norfolk Island,
had lived 74 of her 75 years there. She was
one of the Pitcairners transported to their
new home in 1856; her death leaves only
seven of them, three men and four women.
A* D. Mullins, just floated into Sydney
on furlough, is the man who has had most
to do with the building of the ’dromes and
workshop of Guinea Airways. The workshop
undertakes all repairs to aircraft, as also
repairs to every kind of machinery used by
plantations along the coast, and it could
doubtless build a ’plane, if required. When
G. J. Levien floated the flying company,
pilot Mustard and Mullins took across the
first ’plane (the old DH37), and made the
pioneer flight from Rabaul to Lae. Now
there is a fleet of Junkers, with more on
the way, and Mullins is the chief engineer.
J. W. Carter, dead in Queensland at 83,
was a Lincolnshire lad who came to Aus-
tralia in the roaring ’fifties, and followed the
gold lure to North Queensland. At Mill-
chester he founded the “Northern Advocate”
newspaper, and when the alluvial flats
petered out he moved half a mile up Gill-
street into the reefing city of Charters
Towers, where his paper became the “C. T-
Herald.” His battles with Thady O’Kane, of
the “Northern Miner,” are still classics in
country journalistic polemics.
Professor FLYNN.
Thompson Flynn,
Professor of Biology
in Tas. University, is
off to Britain to dis-
close his latest dis-
coveries in the matter
of kangaroo obstetrics
and the combined
hatchery and dairy
doings of the echidna,
the so-called porcu-
pine. The professpr
has done more sticky-
beaking into the
family affairs of these
fauna than anybody
else on earth. While
in England he hopes to
perfect his project of
inducing scientists to
join him in a research
expedition to the
south-west quarter of
his island.
An old Thames
(M.L.) digger of the
’sixties was Moses
Ensor, just dead at
Devenport, near Auck-
land. Moses was close
on the trail of the hunt
party who staked out
the famous Shotover,
the first strike there.
Later, he worked at
the Golden Calf and
the Moanataiari, and
was one of the pros-
pectors of the Crown
Princess and the Una.
It was in the Albur-
nia that a delayed
blast blinded him, and
for the last 50 years
he lived in darkness.
General T. A. Blarney, whose fine work in
France led to his rising to Chief of Staff
A.I.F. in succession to General White, has
been reappointed for three years as Vic.
Chief Commissioner of Police. Twenty-two
others applied, but the only result of throw-
ing open the post for competition is that it
has the salary to be reduced from
£1750 to £1250. Blarney was born at
Wagga (N.S.W.) 46 years ago.
Acting Commonwealth Treasurer Lyons,
ex-State school-teacher of Tasmania, is chair-
man of the advisory committee which has
been appointed to help in carrying out the
resolutions of the Niemeyer conference. Treas-
urers run in all shapes. Stevens, of N. S.
Wales, is an ex-Treasury clerk who climbed
Acting Commonwealth Treasurer
J. A. LYONS.
to the top of his department. George
lieid was another Treasury clerk before he
read law. George Turner, who straightened
up the finances of Victoria after the land
boom, was a little grey solicitor. J. B.
Patterson, Premier of the Government which
began that cleaning up, had been a butcher-
and Graham Berry, his predecessor, ran
the iCollingwood “Observer” for years. Fred
Holder, perhaps S. Australia’s ablest Treas-
urer, was a country journalist. Wallie Kid-
ston, first Labor Treasurer of Queensland,
was a bookseller and stationer; Peter Airey,
a later Labor Treasurer, was another school-
teacher. Tom Playford, of South Aus., was
a market gardenei*. There were four Treas-
urers in the first N.S.W. Labor Ministry—
McGowen, boilermaker; Dacey, tanner; Car-
michael, clerk; Cann, miner. And, later,
ITolman (first cabinet-maker and afterwards
barrister) reconstructed the Ministry and
took the office. Down to about 40 years ago
it was generally reckoned the right thing
to give the job to either a commercial lawyer
or a merchant; but that isn’t done any more.
Ex-Prime Minister Joe Ward, of M.L.,
left an estate worth £330,000. He laid the
foundation of it during the S’African War,
when with Owen Cox, who later settled in
Sydney, he got hold of some valuable Govern-
ment contracts. Two years before the war
began he was a bankrupt. He took his first
£lOO,OOO to London, and doubled it in the
Stock Exchange.
Vic. Treasury will get substantial pro-
bate cuts out of the Howard Berry
(£311,000) and the Walter Laidlaw
(£172,380) estates. Berry was a city mag-
nate, and Laidlaw a Western district grazier.
Treasurer Hogan can do with all the con-
tributions that dead citizens can give to help
him balance his Budget.
S. Whitehead, Vic. Director of Migration,
steps into the secretaryship of the Public
Works and Mines Dept., rendered vacant by
the retirement of A. H. Merrin. His old job
is likely to go west in the cause of economy.
Whitehead performed a task in 1927 which
has sometimes been rewarded by a knight-
hood. He directed the reception arrange-
ments for the Yorks when they called on
Victoria.
The Westralian Assembly has quite a
youthful Father of the House in a former
Speaker and ex-Lands Minister, Michael
Troy, who is not yet 50. As an M.L.A. he
lias sat continuously since 1904; W. D.
Johnson, another Laborite, dates from 1901,
and was a Minister and acting-Premier while
Troy was still learning the Parliamentary
goose-step, but Johnson was out for six
years. Michael, a N.S.W. native, arrived
on the Murchison when little more than a
lad; his first job was grooming the Warden’s
ponies and keeping the courthouse clean.
Mount Magnet has been constant to him
since he first secured the Labor nomination.
WHICH?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The London ‘Financial Times’ agrees that repudi-
ation is essential in Australia, not of debts, but of
men who would commit the country to a policy of
dishonor and disaster.”
What would you see abjured, whom dis-
avowed ?
Honor and honesty and all conveyed
Therein? Or blatant tongues that cry aloud
That broken faith is but a trivial thing,
That in default there lurks no stain or sting,
No shame in trust betrayed?
Whom would you have disowned, or what
disclaim ?
The solemn covenant? The steadfast voice
Of those who hold and keep their own good
name
One with the nation’s? Or the men who
scorn
The plighted word and mock at faith for-
sworn ?
Step up and make your choice!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“An Investment with the Security of a Bank”
ISLAND
PLANTATIONS
LIMITED
NEW GUINEA
'' /; t ‘ .
Particulars of Profit-sharing Bonds Now Offered for Sale
ISLAND PLANTATIONS, LIMITED, has been formed with a nominal Bond and
Share Capital of £216,500, for the purpose of acquiring land in New Britain,
32 miles from Rabaul, and establishing a Coffee Plantation. The whole of the Share
Capital necessary to allow the Company to function and carry out its obligations
has been subscribed. It has acquired 3500 acres of first-class coffee land, and
Bonds are now being offered to the public.
There are three series of Bonds —“A,” “B” and “C” It is the issue of A Bonds,
limited to 2000, which are now for sale, at £29/10/-each, cash or terms. Approxi-
mately 1000 acres of the estate are to be transferred to Trustees on behalf of the
“A” issue Bondholders —that is, each Bondholder will own half an acre of the
plantation. “B” and “C” Bonds, representing further divisions of the estate, are
not yet for sale. The Company will commence operations with that portion of
the estate represented by “A” Bonds.
dfg
The establishment of a Coffee Plantation in New Guinea has peculiar advantages. The land and climate are eminently
suitable; there is an absence of the heavy taxation which is now being experienced m Australia; there is plenty ot
cheap native labor; and there is in Australia alone a huge market for the Product. Australia in 1929 imported
3,600,0001 b. of coffee. Coffee from foreign countries is subject to a duty of 3d. per lb. Coffee grown in New G
is admitted into Australia free.
InvestYourCapital in Coffee Bonds
THIS IS ONE OF THE MOST ATTRACTIVE INVESTMENTS
EVER OFFERED TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
The Directors invite anyone interested to make the fullest investigation
of the detailed information, which they will supply in a handbook.
Coffee at 18 months old. Coming into bearing .<on the Govern-
ment Agricultural Farm, adjoining the Company’s property.
The Bond Prospectus, covering particulars
defining the obligations of the Company
before and after the production stage has
been reached, will be forwarded to any
address upon receipt of application.
A TRIP TO NEW GUINEA AT OUR EXPENSE!
As an indication of the integrity of Island Plantations, Limited, who desire to create
the utmost confidence in the minds of prospective investors, the Company intends to
appoint a reputable resident from every town and country district in the Commonwealth,
who will act in an advisory capacity to the local public interested in these Bonds.
To enable these advisors to gain first-hand knowledge of the enterprise, the Company
has arranged for first-class return passages and expenses to New Guinea for each
selected representative of the people who is prepared to act in this capacity.
WILL YOU ACCEPT A FOUR WEEKS’ TOUR OF THESE
PACIFIC ISLANDS AT THE COMPANY’S EXPENSE?
The Company is now calling for Nominations from readers in New South Wales,
Queensland, Victoria, South Australia, West Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand.
AVAIL YOURSELF OF THIS OPPORTUNITY TO SEE THE
PLANTATION AREAS FOR YOURSELF.
You are invited to send in your nomination as soon as possible, upon receipt of which
the Company will furnish you with further details regarding sailing dates, etc.
NOTE:—
Island Plantations, Limited, wish to emphasise the fact that they are in no Way
associated with any other Plantation Company operating in New Guinea.
Registered Office of the Company:
ISLAND PLANTATIONS, LIMITED,
ST. JAMES BUILDING,
'Phone: MA 3805. 109 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her “Follow Through”
Criterion .. “Coquette”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
King's “Little Accident”
Royal (com. Saturday) “Lilac Time”
Tivoli The Follies of 1930
Hoyt's Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
_
The theatrico-social event of the week in
Melbourne w'as the removal on Saturday of
the eminent Jim Gerald from his old address,
the Tivoli, Bourke-street, to the King’s, the
occasion being the premiere of “Little Acci-
dent,” an obstetrical American farce by
Floyd Bell and Thomas Mitchell. James
appeared to be a trifle overawed by being
under royal patronage, so to speak. He
played a part which the authors evidently
intended to be that of a rich and elegant
young New Yorker in broad Australian and a
well-cut suit, and the absence of his elephan-
tine pants and his customary red nose left
James in the nude, as it were. His favorite
soliloquy, “Ooh, my Gawd” was frequently
on his lips, but it stepped forth with a sadly
apologetic air. The second act in the recep-
tion-room of the Ellen Harris maternity
hospital in Chicago contains passages of
almost Shavian dialectic, but James failed
to make it appear anything but a Tivoli
farce —the sort in which the delicate situa-
tion or the dubious mot is succeeded by a
blackout and the providential curtain repairs
omissions in the actor’s art. There was a
time in the history of the theatre when east-
ing like this would have earned the pro-
ducers the bird, but those fastidious days are
past. If Gerald made a shambles of his
part he put something in its place which
the audience liked just as well.
The play has already been discussed and
damned by the Sydney Showman, and on
the whole it is pretty bad. It concerns a
young man who learns on his wedding eve
that he has been made a father by a former
illicit love. H’e speeds to the hospital and
proposes marriage to the girl. She is an
artist with no maternal instinct, and she
refuses him the privilege of being either a
father or a husband by arranging for the
child to be adopted by persons unknown. His
paternal feelings having triumphed over his
fear of scandal, he kidnaps the infant, and
BERTHA RICCARDO, returning to Australia to
lead in the Firm’s coming offering, “Sons of Guns.”
the interval of a week is sufficient for the
girl to turn a complete back somersault and
come down a fond mother and a proper
woman yearning for the marriage bond. The
best that can be said about this muddle of
Gallic realism and American sentiment is
that it is well constructed in the main, and
for a thoroughly inhibited audience it has
plenty of laughs. What good writing there
is in it does not get a fair chance. The
Firm’s highest ideal in production nowadays
seems to be to give the leading role to its
most popular low comedian regardless of the
artistic consequences, and for the rest to
collect as many pretty girls as it can find and
let them do their worst. Leslie Victor’s
Italian waiting at the maternity hospital to
hear the sex of his sixth child is the best bit
of acting in the show.
* * *
‘The Plough and the Stars,” the Gregan
McMahon show at Melbourne Bijou, is an-
other of Sean O’Casey’s studies of revolu-
tionary Ireland, and follows closely “Juno
and the Paycock,” done by the Repertorians
a couple of years ago. The theme is the
reality behind the romantic idea of heroism,
When her bricklayer husband, on hearing that
he has been made a commander with the
privilege of wearing a bright new uniform,
rushes off to the barricades to free Ireland
from the English, Mrs. Clitheroe scornfully
strips the patriotic pretensions off him and
reveals the peacock. When he comes tearing
back at the first whiff of m.-g. fire, she says
that women risk more for love than men risk
for hate, and, to prove it, has a stillborn
child and becomes mentally unhinged through
her feminine perception of the horrors of a
situation which the menfolk accept with
bravado or forget in beer.
than C he Cy did P Tn S ‘Muno°” thS nmdS
™at t dld m ~n ° u enough producer
McMahon spares his Melbourne audience
something in the last scene where four re-
fugees from the Easter Rebellion play poker
alongside the coffin of the infant. McMahon
has the coffin offstage. The second act rises
on a public-house bar with a revolutionary
leader silhouetted against the window haran-
guing the patriots outside. O’Casey’s mor-
dant fancy throws a light on the situation
by making the patriots release the tension
of high-powered idealism by stepping into the
bar from time to time to drain a pint and
chat with a prostitute. The rest of the
action takes place in one of those Dublin
tenements whose inhabitants have as much
privacy as monkeys at the zoo. The play
closes with Bessie Burgess, a bitter Cassan-
dra, and jeering chorus to the Irish patriots,
being mistaken for a sniper and shot by the
English she supports.
It is a stark, passionate and uncompro-
mising play, but how hardly Time deals
with dramatists! If O’Casey implies any-
thing, it is that Irishmen, like other human
beings, look most ridiculous to the detached
observer when they are in their most heroic
mood. It seems a poor reason for a country
not wanting to govern itself when an alien
Government has tried its hand and obviously
failed. Since the play was written the Irish
have established a Government which, at any
rate, hasn’t figured in the cables so much
as the Australian Government has of late—
and Governments which don’t figure in the
cables are generally considered to be rub-
bing along pretty well.
As for the performance. H. N. Gregory,
Maurice Latimer, Betty Rae, Ruby May,
Florence Fallow and others do it very well,
in spite of their St. Kilda, Kew and South
Yarra Irish. The play will be repeated
to-night (Wednesday).
* * *
Shaw’s brilliant 100 p.c. talkie, “You Never
Can Tell,” was the Repertorians’ offering at
the Melbourne Playhouse on Saturday night.
Clewlow has never collected a more uni-
formly intelligent and attractive crew. No
attempt was made to dress the play in the
period, as it was felt that the costumes were
not sufficiently remote to have become his-
torical, and so might have occasioned merri-
ment at inappropiate times. It was a wise
move, because it enabled some extraordi-
narily handsome women to appear in some
staggeringly attractive frocks—and who is
the misanthrope who is going to quarrel
with that! The Shavian preface came to
life in the usual array of types. Joyce
Turner, as Dolly Chandon, the ultra-modern
flapper who never stops talking except in the
intervals, delivered her aphorisms with a
gay insousiance and in a flexible voice;
Edith Appleton played her mother with great
aplomb; Terence .Crisp was a lively Philip
TUI BLACK, who, with Frith, Ada Reeve, Mo and
a string of others, will help to make Sydney St.
James’ a legit, house once more.
Clandon; Coral Brown was a symbol for
sartorial perfection and physical charm as
Gloria, and she acted cleverly as well;
Howard Smith gave a remarkable interpre-
tation of a waiter such as one might find
hovering round for a tip in a Celestial hotel;
Charles Langley rose to the occasion as the
five-shilling dentist, Valentine; and Helton
Daniell behaved with painful realism in the
dental chair. Altogether it was an out-
standing show. G.B.S. would have been
pleased to see his picture hung in such a
good light,
# V V
After careful consideration of further pro-
grammes at Melbourne Auditorium the
present critic has come to the conclusion
that the worst charge that can be brought
against Kubelik is that he selects pieces that
are of more interest to a violinist as a
violinist than to the general public, and that
he plays them in a way that a violinist would
be likely to find most interesting. In other
words he thinks more of his music than of
himself, and Melbourne isn’t used to it. It
is more accustomed to virtuosi who exploit
the great composers in the interests of their
own personality, of vocalists who indulge in
public petting parties witli their accompanists
and of infant prodigies whose proper place
is the Tivoli. Kubelik resolutely refuses to
avail himself of these aids to intellectual
enjoyment. Accurately to judge whether his
fiddling is superior to that of, say, Zimbalist
and Heifetz, it might be necessary to hear
all three over the wireless. The mike has
a withering effect on “artistic temperament.”
The austere Jan’s farewell occurs on Thurs-
day at the matinee,
V # v
It wou]d b hard t t thi closep to
grat ¥ ° pera than the Melba g Conserva?
tonum performance of “II Seraglio or the
Escape from the Harem m «ti
SJ » uJ™ „? • musi „ c . of £
that”of’ the \Lihiv mm!!! 1 , 18 superior to
takes the tune 'of “Under the
“ThanS fnn k£ tmA® D ? od 5 J
eJalied sentiments tfthemfbut a story
it satisfies all native requirements. It is a
noteworthy fact that the greater the com-
poser the more puerile is his taste in libret-
tos. Ihe plots of Mozart’s operas would be
considered the last word in futility if Beet-
hoven had never written “Fidelio ” The
perfect combination, as far as stage presen-
tation is concerned, is to be found in lesser
composers like Verdi, Puccini and Sullivan.
J-he reason seems to lie in the other-w T orldly
innocence of great artists. So when Velas-
quez was commissioned to paint a heroic
picture of Mars he produced a figure that
looks like Tommy Atkins with his clothes off.
* ¥ *
What might be described as an anti-Irving
Berlin offensive is being staged in Sydney
this week,, the various organisations that love
good music having agreed to give the city
populace a fusillade of it enduring for eight
days. The first shots were fired on Saturday
night when the Con. Orchestra discharged a
lli-inch gun named “Beethoven’s Fourth” and
several minor pieces of ordnance. On Sun-
day some of the churches took a hand, and
a choral society occupied the Lyceum Hall.
On Monday the Australian Broadcasting Co.
marched its orchestra to the Con. Hall in
the evening and, in addition to a barrage laid
down by the band, there was a massing of
pianofortes, six of which were in action to-
gether at one stage playing Percy Grainger’s
Children’s March.” Coverts, organ recitals,
chamber music soirees and brass band per-
formances have been arranged to fill up
almost every minute of each day, and the
Uni. carillon isn’t left out. The bombard-
ment will grow more severe as the week
goes on, for to-morrow General Backhaus
returns, and among other ammunition he will
fling Beethoven’s mighty “Hammerklavier”
Sonata into the fray. Part of his plan of
campaign is a foray in echelon with the Con.
orchestra. Listeners-in should look to their
batteries. There is stiff work toward.
* ¥ *
“Governor Bligh” ceases rating the Rum
Corps at Sydney Opera House this week.
The Australian-made play has had something
like the run it merited, and looks like turn-
ing out one of the best money-spinners in
the Wilkie repertoire. Its maker, Doris
Egerton Jones, should be doing famously
at her craft if the general managerial out-
look wasn’t so unmovably turned over-
seas. She has a fine sense of stage require-
ments, and the chief charge that can be
levelled against her play, that it is largely
melodramatic, may be laid equally against
many more famous ones in the line, includ-
ing some that have a place in the Wilkie
canon. But though her primary aim is to
provide an entertainment, she touches
deeper spots in this reconsideration of Bligh.
A thing that struck present writer on his
first viewing of the piece was the authentic
Australian note of the present day which
has somehow crept into the ancient scene.
It is the note, too, that is most rarely struck
by Australian of the
brighter side. It becomes even more insis-
tent on a second viewing. Whatever the
merit of the piece as high art, it is very
clearly branded Australian-made.
Another thing that gets home on a second
inspection is that the historical side is
r.ot based so flimsily as one view might sug-
gest. The early idea arises from the thea-
trical stockiness of such characters as
Bligh’s manservant, a Frenchman lifted
straight from the bellowest of bellowdrama,
and one or two other persons. The impor-
tant thing is that the play is historically
right in spirit. It gets the times with the
completeness of a series of stories by Abbott.
Most of the incidents can be found in his-
tory, and a fair amount of the dialogue. The
author is, as she herself has put it, pro-Bligh,
which means that she deliberately shows
McArthur up as a most unpleasantly bad
lot, and brings Bligh out as a man or ster-
ling character. An incidental curious point
about th ; s matter is that accredited
experts, while asserting the play to be his-
torically sound, profess to be pro-McArthur.
McArthur of the play is no ordinary rogue
who can be liked not only in spite of, but
because of, his rogueries; he is an unscrupu-
lous blackguard. Which suggests that either
the drawing is wrong or the pro-McArthurs
don’t really know their hero.
¥ # #
Golfers in general and a few in particu-
lar are hereby advised to go along to Sydney
Majesty’s and see the musical play called
“Follow Through.” There they may gather
some idea of what they really do look like.
Only a profound knowledge of golfers pre-
vents present commentator from asserting
that the spectacle of Cecil Kellaway in a
green beret, followed by yellow and brown
and white and green, ought to be
enough to make a golfer take to cricket or
join the girl archers. What will probably
happen, of course, is that golfers will be
troubling the outlook with exactly these glad
rags before the year is out. It will be a
sad return for commending them to a jolly
bright little show, but golfers are like that.
Elsie Prince gets better and better.
She is the most improved young lady of this
Showman’s musicomedy knowledge. She has
the useful advantage of being able to act
in any company, and does just as well part-
nering Gus Bluett as she does beside Ilindle
Edgar. Also, the fact that the house happens
to be half-empty makes no perceptible dif-
ference to Elsie. She goes at her job with
a relish that sundry other eminent per-
formers might do worse than try to imitate.
Gus Bluett is Gus Bluett, though he manages
to be some of the chap he is supposed to be
as well. He gets laughs more easily and more
often than anyone else on the Sydney stage
at the moment. Much of the stuff he gets it
with in this show is doubtful, not to say pro-
blematical, but there is a nice balance of
fnnocuous foolery. For the rest, there is
Cecil Kellaway, who never fails to be worth
watching; Josie Melville, charming in an
effaced kind of way; Vincent Lawson; a
likely-looking nipper named Frances Ogilvy ;
that bright brace of dancers the Fallow
Twins, and 'a decorative list of others. Alto-
gether, it makes a gay relief from the gloomy
picture of depression.
* ¥ *
Allen McCristal, a very young man who
made his first bow as a solo pianist at
Sydney Con. the other evening, belongs at
present to the magisterial rather than the
poetic school. His gifts of precision, clarity
and firmness enabled him to declaim
Brahms’s variations of a Handel air with all
the virility of Mark Hambourg. The crisp
sparkle of Scarlatti, represented by the
“Pastorale” and “Capriccio,” also suited his
style.. But in a selection of Chopin pieces
covering a variety of moods, he showed
little sympathy, and his playing of some of
Debussy’s tone-pictures was out of focus. An
intensive study of Bach, the daddy of all
schools, is recommended as the salvation of
a pianist whose hands are better trained
than his head —and, what is more important
still, his heart.
JOSIE MELVILLE, in the golfing musicomedy
“Follow Through,” at Sydney Majesty’s.
The best news in Adelaide shows is that
West’s Pictures have reinstated the fine
orchestra that for years before the ‘talkies
was a feature of the house. To give it a
chance, a brilliantly-dressed ballet is part
of the programme. The York is to devote
itself to long-distance runs. But the Pav,
which lately has been giving a second innings
to pictures successful at other houses, talks
of turning itself into an indoor miniature
golf links.
* * *
After eight weeks of houses that have stag-
gered even the Mclntosh, the Dulfield enter-
prise will remove itself from Melbourne
Tivoli on Friday and betake itself to Syd-
ney. On Saturday the Follies of 1930 will
be interpreted by “a specially organised com-
pany of favorite players.” A management
which can put it as mildly as that is
obviously well satisfied with itself.
* * *
At Melbourne Auditorium on Sept. 11, and
under the Distinguished Patronage of His
Excellency the Governor and Lady Somers.
His Excellency the Lieutenant-Governor and
Lady Irvine, Sir John and Lady Grice, Lady
Hodges, Lady Spencer, Lady Allen, Mrs.
Harry Emmerton, Mrs. James Alston, the
Right Honorable the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress, and Major-General Sir John
Monash, waiter kirby will give a farewell
song recital.
# * *
For some years Malvern has been claim-
ing to be Melbourne’s most musical suburb,
mainly on the grounds that it has the only
full symphony orchestra outside the metro-
politan area. On Sept. 6 its Choral Society
will invade the city and pei’form in the
Town Hall. The principal item will be
Vaughan Williams’s “Sea Symphony,” stated
to be “the greatest choral and orchestral
symphony ever written,” which, if it is no-
thing else, is a slap in the eye for Beethoven.
The Vic. Professional Orchestra will assist
in an enterprise that deserves encourage-
ment.


Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
dfg
WATER FILTRATION
For manufacturing purposes clear water is
essential. The “SWIRL” FILTER gives
a large output and is specially suitable for
Ice Works, Butter Factories, Laundries, etc.
Also Sole Manufacturers of the well-known
“Abbot” Germ-proof Filters, pressure or
crockery, for household use, Cordial
Factories, etc.
Catalogues on Application.
Guthridge Limited
Sole Manufacturers
10-12 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY
INSURE WITH THE
Mercantile Mutual
Insurance CoLtd.,
An Australian Company—
Established 1878.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centres.
The WILD CAT
COUMN
Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Ltd.
Net To
Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
May, £ £ £ £
1920.. 517,664 15 p.c. = 315,000 202,664 2,457,944
Share premiums, £443,8)6 .. .. 2,901,760
Transferred from sinking fund, £50,500 2,952,260
1921.. 351,331 15 p.c. = 341,108 1u,z23 2,962,483
1922.. 103,300 3J„ „ 92,054 11,246 2,973,729
Loss.
1923.. 106,086 Nil 2,867,643
Share premiums, £lBl2 .. .. 2,869,455
Profit.
1924.. 279,339 Nil 279,339 3,148,794
Share premiums, £73,477 .. •• 3,222.271
1925.. 372,307 5 p.c. = 123,614 248,693 3,470,964
1926.. 303,032 10 „ „ 268,771 34,261 3,505,225
1927.. 291,577 10 „ „ 268,771 22,806 3,528,031
1928.. 222,617 10 „ „ 268,771 3,481,877
1929.. 332,671 10 „ „ 268,771 63,900 3,545,777
Written off old plant, £200,000 .. 3,345,777
Share premiums, £120,000 .. 3,465,777
1930.. 161,890 Nil 161,890 3,627,667
Profits include: 1924, £164,314 tax and law costs
recovered; 1925, £64,015 taxation recoveries; 1927,
£11,902 taxation refund.
The coal stoppage, severely curtailed output
at the co.’s Newcastle steelworks,_ reduced
the return from by-products and increased
costs; and tight money, the collapse of metal
prices and lessened trade activity generally
greatly aggravated the difficulties. Hence
the sharp contraction of £707,348 in the
year’s sales plus products on hand
(£3,398,866). Exes. (£2,952,159). were got
back £358,102, leaving the balance on work-
ing account £349,246 lighter at £446,707.
Interest, etc. (£159,667), brought in an extra
£16,699. The £606,374 that thus came into
the p. and 1. account went mostly in this
way:—
1923 1929. 1930.
Depreciation .. .. £155,304 £417,592 £256,696
Office and other exes... 68,837 61,854 64,756
Debenture interest .. 131,227 81,094 73,033
Income tax .. .. - 45,710 50,000
A lighter charge for depreciation reduced the
net contraction to £170,781, the final figure
being 5.4 p.c. on capital compared with 12.3,
5.2, 10.8, 11.2, 15.2 and 11.3 p.c. back to
1924. But owing to the unsettled outlook
the board considered it wise not to pay .a div.
The old miue at Broken Hill was reopened
in Sept., and 85,692 tons ore was treated
at Sulphide Corp.’s mill for 16,250 tons lead
concentrates ( assay 8.3 p.c. zinc, 65.4 p.c.
lead and 4.80 z. silver per ton). The slime
flotation plant put through 146,143 tons
oxidised residues for 20,751 tons lead con-
centrates (assay 8.2 p.c. zinc, 41 p.c. lead,
17.40 z, silver per ton). But owing to low
prices and high costs the mine is shut down
again. At Iron Knob, from which the New-
castle works are supplied with ore, 1,056,269
tons stone was quarried, or 267,352 tons
more than in the previous year. The new
electrical equipment, from which costs were
expected to benefit, is reported satisfactory.
As in. the previous year, only one of the
three blast furnaces was in continuous opera-
tion. The production of pig-iron (187,517
tons) fell away 143,268 tons. Other units
of the big plant behaved in this way:—
1922. 1929. 1930.
Tons. Tons. Tons.
Open hearth(steel ingots) 219,799 351,146 245,302
Blooms and billets . . 204,551 332,358 233,728
28in. mill . . . . 110,226 211,684 161,022
18in. mill .. .. 67,071 94,932 55,872
12in. and 8i». mills .. 27,333 61,279 45,701
Rod mill ~ . . 30,168 84,289 67,745
Fishplates .. .. 3,231 5,499 2,042
Steel foundry . . . . 2,806 22,913 20,627
Direct metal foundry. . 4,737 5,649 3,601
Ooke 191,038 318,000 129,109
The new Wilputte coke ovens and by-pro-
ducts plant are nearing completion.
East year i 217,367 was knocked off the
outside debt, and the foundations of the
business were further strengthened by an
exchange of shares with Vickers Common-
wealth Steel Products, the Structural Steel
Engineering Co. (W.A.) and Lysaght Bros.:
Paid All Other
May, Capital. Reserves. Debentures. Liabilities.
£> £ £ £
1918.. 472,402 2,760,181 901,700 801,730
1919.. 2,100,000* 2,255.280* 848.600 742,253
1923.. 2,455.048 2,867.643 1,962,200 598.399
1925.. 2,687,708 3,470,964 1,702,300 675.701
19*6.. *.687,708 3,505.225 1.572.800 717,009
1927.. 2,687,708 3,528,031 1,518,600 903,751
1928.. 2,687,708 3,481,877 1,262,400 784,443
1929.. 2,687,708 3,345,777 1,125,100 1,005,336
1930.. 2,987,708 3,627,667 990,600 922,469
* £1.500,000 of reserves capitalised.
Thus £300,000 was added to paid capital,
and reserves benefited by £120,000 of share
premiums.
Tlie addition of £288,493-to the book value
of the steelworks was mainly on account 01
the new coke ovens : , _ ..
Stocks, Book Debts,
Mining Metals in-
Steel- Equip- and Steel vestments,
works. nient, etc. and Stores. Cash, etc.
1915.. £1,283,000 £532,038 £482,545 £350,513
Port Pirie Smelters sold.
1917 . 2,369,600 163,738 '778,084 679,942
19*0* , 3,974,846 83,388 1,117,306 862,470
1924 5,646,651 236,408 681,186 1,293,371
1925*. 5,778,770 225.670 698,517 1,649,309
1926 . 5,723,558 224.744 608,577 1,816.458
1927.. 5,635,715 228,952 706,777 1,995,241
19*8 5.623,013 363,908 553,275 1,639,826
19*9*. 5,243,7*5 467,797 512,871 1,903,123
1930.. 5.532,218 458,224 586,129 1,916,467
In addition, the mine, etc., figures at £35,406.
Despite extension of the tramway, now near-
ing completion, to the Iron Baron leases,
£9572 more was written off than was spent
on mining equipment. Taking d b nfures
into the reckoning, the more or less liquid
surplus (£589,527) was £302909 stronger
than at the close of accounts in 1929.
Owing to the altered outlook, the market,
which paid 31s. for the pound shares a year
ago. now prices them at 12s. 3d. At that
figure the return is 8.1 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div.
basis. The backing is 445. 3d. in net tan-
gibles, mainly plant of one kind and another.
The Australian Gas Light Co.
Dividends. To Re- Re-
June. Profits. (All Shares). serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 155,843 8 p.e. = 153,892 1,951 15,187
19*1.. 183.978 8 „ „ 170.574 13,404 28,591
19*2.. 182,973 8 „ „ 173.6*1 9.362 37.943
19*3.. 168.721 8 „ „ 195.660 11,004
1924.. 239,804 8 „ „ 216.921 22,883 33,887
19*5. . 232.918 8 „ „ 237.752 29,053
19*6.. 259,169 8 „ 291 109 27.113
1927.. 291.913 8 ~ „ 282,756 9,157 36,270
19*8.. 348.362 8 „ „ 303,316 45,046 81,316
1929.. 278,182 8 „ „ 324,204 35,294
1930. . 310,573 8 ~ „ 328,800 17,067
The recent stoppage on the Maitland coal-
field cost this co. over £260,000. Of that
amount £203,550 was the increased cost of
supplies and was charged against the
special purposes and depreciation fund,
reducing it to £77,955. To give the co. a
chance to recover some of the loss, the price
of gas to the consumer is to be kept at ss.
9d. per 1000c.f., notwithstanding that the
northern pits are producing again, and that
the selling price of coal has been reduced.
Here is the position as the revenue account
discloses it: —
1928. 1929. 1930.
Revenue:—
Gas sales .. £1,962,392 £2,000,524 £2,092,987
By-products .. 239,779 216,312 229,380
Meters, etc. 58,463 60,418 57,317
Expenditure:— <
Manufacture and
distribution . . 1,410,256 1,483,893 1,535,145
Other charges.. 190,940 182,980 156,473
Interest, etc. .. 130,887 139,199 160,493
The year’s gas sales' turned in an extra
. £92,463, and there was an encouraging
growth of £13,068 in returns froin residuals;
but meter rents, interest, etc., were. £3lOl
lighter, leaving the net growth in total
revenue at £102,430. After transferring
£217,000 to the special purposes fund, the
ne,t result benefited by £32,931. But it was
still £18.227 short of the standard 8 p.c.
div., requirements, so the divisible profits
account was raided for that amount, leav-
ing a mere £17,067 in the cupboard, which
is the only source for adjusting the div.
when trading results fail to measure up to
standard requirements.
Whether the profit claimed was earned
depends largely upon whether the sums
spent upon works, etc., which is equivalent
to writing down fixed assets, prove to be
enough to cover actual depreciation. The
next table shows what has been done in this
w T ay of recent years:—
Paid for out of Profits
Repairs and f —-—— /v ~ —? —-v
Maintenance. Works, etc. Strikes, etc.
1920 .. £188,278 £36,3)6 £16,966
1926 . . 264,250 87,414 8,160
1927 .. 264,597 92.370 1,487
1928 .. 264,770 189,936
1929 . . 267,663 256,993 21,903
1930 . . 267,817 154,460 181,647
If expenditure to date has been inadequate,
then profits have been overstated in the
past, and future results are likely to suffer.
With plant and equipment in at over
£6,400,060. the call for depreciation is
pretty loud. Under the Gas Act revenue can
be charged with 3-£ p.c. of the capital out-
lay on buildings and plant (in at over
£6,400.000 at June 30). Since 1918
£1,567,163, or 86 p.c. of the maximum
amount allowable, has been so charged. Of
that amount £1,270,820 has been spent on
the replacement of plant, etc., and £254,669
for other purposes, mainly the extra cost of
coal, due to strikes.
During the year £1,500.000 of p.c.
debentures were issued; but £949,000 of it
was used to meet maturing 7 p.c. stock, and
£191,481 for the reduction of temporary
loans, so the net increase in total loan funds
(now £2,556,769) was £359,519. Of that
£209,514 was spent on fixed assets,
„ O T,. rv,o!.-3 n*"’d fhr> hi 1 a UP*’
reducing the debit at capital account to
£38234. The share cap : tal figures at
£4.110,000 in £6 shares, which the market
prices at £5 15s. The return at that figure
is 8.4 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The inten-
tion of the Gas Act is to stabilise the div.
at 8 p.c.; it. provides for application to the
Court and adjustment of the price when
costs endanger that rate, though permission
to adopt this course was refused the co. last
year. All new shares are sold at auction.
Perpetual Trustee Co. (Sydney).
Net Dividends. Written To Re-
June, Profit. (10 p.c.) Off. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1919 .. 20,644 7,500 13,144 149,003
Reserves capitalised, £15,000 .. 134,003
Provident fund, £5OOO .. .. 129,003
1920 20,564 8,753 615 11,196 140,199
Reserves capitalised, £lO,OOO .. 130,199
(12J p.c.)
1921 .. 24,495 12,250 2530 9,715 139,914
1922 ~ 24,007 12,500 3141 8,366 148.280
1923 .. 27,468 14,375 3000 10,093 158,373
1924 . 28.259 15.025 3995 8,639 167,012
1925 -. 30,500 17,500 2500 10,500 177,512
Reserves capitalised, £lO,OOO .. 167,512
1926 .. 3 i ,651 20.000 2209 9,442 176,954
1927 , . 31,972 21,125 2545 8,302 185,256
1928 . . 33,552 21,875 2583 9,094 194.350
1929 . . 39,626 25,000 2000 12,626 206,976
1930 .. 37,911 25,000 2000 10,911 217,887
The falling value of real and other property,
and reduced incomes from estates, especially
those consisting largely of pastoral interests,
have affected the corpus, agency and otner
commission earnings of this Australia’s
greatest trustee co. But the effect has been
offset to some extent by the increase in the
volume of business :
Exes.
Gross Ex- p.c. of
Trusts. Income. penses. Income.
1911 ..£8,853,862 £27,895 £16.850 60.4
,916 . . 12,604,680 37.818 28,328 74.9
1921 .. 18,432.862 77.404 65,261 71.4
1924 .. 23.683,701 95,781 71,078 74.2
1925 . . 25,637,073 101,220 74.774 73.8
1926 .. 26.969,507 10i,362 79,b46 74.3
1927 .. 29.967.269 115,512 86,509 74.8
1928 .. 34.231,040 127,009 96,343 75.9
1929 . . 36.358,047 138,092 104,397 75.6
1930 .. 39.023,614 147,893 115,555 78.1
The net addition to trusts in hand was
£2,660,567 last year, or £568,560 more than
the previous year’s increase. The improve-
ment in earnings was £9BOl as against a
spring of £11,083 in 1929. And since the
extra cost of handling the bigger business
was £11.158, the profit claimed was £1357
lighter at £32.338. The £5573 of additional
profit shown in the table is the net increase
in the “commissions reserved account,” now
£56,116. This is the unearned portion of
the corpus commission for which credit is
taken in the p. and 1. account as the trusts
are wound up. The £2OOO in the written-off
column comprises contributions to the
fidelity and provident funds (£lOOO to each).
The fidelity fund (£lO.OOO at June 30)
has been built up out of earnings, and is used
in tbe business, but the provident fund,
which belongs to the staff, does not tigure
in the accounts. Taking all these movements
into consideration, the net result was 18.9
p.c. on paid capital compared with 19.8, 19.2,
19.8 and 19.7 p.c. back to 1926. the year
following that in which the last gift (2s.
per share) was made. So the p.c. to
shareholders offered no difficulty; and with
reserves totalling £227,587 (including the
fidelity fund) to protect and assist £200.600
of capital the position loses none of its
attractiveness. Capital and reserves com-
bined have to net only 5 8 p.c. to pay 12£
p.c. on capital; actually average funds
turned in 9 p.c. last year.
And assets are a solid lot. At June 30
there was £3979 coming to sundry creditors.
Public securities, cash, etc., figured at
£149,903; mortgages, £181,963; premises,
£ll5 060. Apart from the small chance the
co. takes in the investment of its own funds,
it really does not have to risk much. If it
is in doubt about the meaning of a will
there is always the Court to go to for in-
structions.
The market prices the scrip paid to 40s. at
84s. The return at that figure is a wink
under 6 p.c. on a 124 p.c. div basis. The
baking is £4 ss. 7d. per share in net tan-
gibles.
Cennys, Lascelles, Ltd. (Geelong).
June, Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Deficit.
£> £ £ £
1920.. 20,274 7 p.c. = 10,500 9774 25,973
1921.. 11,518 7 „ „ 10,500 1018 24,955
1922.. 15,838 7 „ „ 10,500 5338 19,617
1923.. 17,841 7 „ „ 10,500 7341 12,276
1924.. 15,313 7 „ „ 10,500 4813 7,463
Reserves.
1925.. 21,676 7 „ „ 12.030 9646 2,183
1976.. 18.sn 7 „ 14.000 4801 6.984
1927.. 20,390 7 „ „ 14,000 ( .„ Qn ~
Superannuation Fund, £2OOO J
1928.. 25,186 Bip.c.= 16,500 8686 20,060
Net premiums on new shares, £4450.. 24,510
Added goodwill, £lO,OOO .. .. 14,510
1929.. 32,137 7 p.c. = 18,926 ) Q9l , 00791
Taxation Reserve, £4OOO j
1930.. 10,450 5 p.c. = 15,000 19,171
For the 12 months to June 30 wool averaged
£l3 per bale in Vic., the lowest figure since
pre-war years, and over £9 less than the
average for the previous season. Also there
w*s a shorni fall P prices in the livestock
and produce markets, and drought in
Northern Vic. and the Riverina further added
to the troubles. All this and a heavy wool
carry-over have bitten into the co.’s commis-
sion and other earnings, and extension of
the selling season has made exes, difficult to
restrain:—
Gross Profits. Salaries Other
and Commissions, and Wages. Expenses.
1920.. £55,356 £20,245 £14,836
1922.. 50 026 23,570 16,618
1924.. 58,174 23,709
1926.. 85,710 35,030 31.879
1927.. 92,223 34,685 3 X»JfZ
1928.. 91,373 36,040 30,147
1929.. 114,195 43,364 38,694
1930.. 92,777 44,359 37,968
After making provision for bad and doubt-
ful debts, gross profits were £21,418 lighter
than the previous year’s. Exes, were a
trifle heavier; thus the net result receded to
3.4 p.c. on average capital compared with
11.8, 12.6, 10.2, 9.4 and 15.6 p.c. back to
1925. when wool averaged £35 13s. 7d. The
interim div. was maintained at the usual
rate of 7 p.c. p.a., but the final was reduced
to 3 p.c. p.a., making 5 p.c. for the year.
And then the already shallow reserves had
to be dipped into for £4550 to pay it, reduc-
ing the visible lay-by to £19,171 in excess of
goodwill (£60.000), which is not treated as
an asset herein.
The co.’s activities were confined mainly
to the Mallee and Western Yic. for over half
a century. A couple of years ago it was
decided to go deeper into the pastoral finance
business. To hasten the development 100,000
new £1 shares were offered and quickly taken
at 215., thus advancing paid capital to
£300.000. At the same time the business of
Young Bros., Hamilton, was bought; this
doubled the number of branches, which now
total 12 and are scattered from Melbourne to
the S. Ans. border and north to the Itiverina.
The lines along which the business has
developed, and the method of financing the
growth, are clearly illustrated in the next
comparison:—
1921. 1923. 1927. 1929. 1930.
£ £ £ £ £
Capital .. 150,000 150,000 200,000 300,000 300,000
Liabilities 109,006 88,618 161,401 320,740 362,088
Property and
plant .. 82,197 87,002 105,295 158,350 159,472
Stock . . 4,682 3,309 10,620 10,568 8,755
Book debts 148,008' 137,357 260,375 488,584 521,486
Cash, etc. 4,474 3,923 5,485 3,409 2,045
To add £32,902 to the book value of advances,
etc., knock £1450 off the mortgage (£6000)
and reduce the amount coming to sundry
creditors (£133,285) by £26,625, the board
went to its banks for an extra £69,423 last
year, raising the overdraft to £222,803. There
was thus 225. Bd. of outside money at risk
in the business for every pound of tangible
assets belonging to shareholders at June 30.
The more or less liquid surplus (£170,198,
including stocks) was £1623 lighter than it
was a year earlier. With the trend of
property and other values still downward,
much obviously depends upon the adequacy
or otherwise of the provision for contingen-
cies; book debts have more, than doubled
in the last three years.
The market prices the scrip at 17s. 6d.
as against 225. lOd. a year ago. At the
lower figure the return is 5.7 p.c. on a 5 p.c.
div. basis. The backing amounts to 21s. 4d.
in net tangibles.
Mick Simmons, Ltd. (Sydney).
Writ-
ten Towards Re-
April, Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1920.. 32,291 10 p.c. = 11,000 3684 17,607 11,489
Deficit.
Transferred to capital, £30,625 .. 19,136
1921. . 27,768 10 p.c. = 13,559 2837 11,372 7,764
1922.. 23,669 10 ~,,15,313 2728 5,628 2.136
Reserves.
1923 20.034 9 „., 13,781 2761 3,492 1,356
19*4.. 17,297 8 ~,,12.832 2709 1,756 3,112
1925.. 16,966 7i „,. 12,421 3361 194 3,306
Profit on sale of property, £8856.. 12,162
1926.. 19,537 9 p.c. = 14.905 3807 825 12,987
1927.. 26,004 10 „ ~16,561 3951 5,492 18,479
21 625 10 „ ~16.561 3703 1,361 19,840
1929.. 17,641 8 „ ~13,250 3683 708 20,548
1930.. 15,145 7 ~',,11,694 3290 261 20,809
This co. runs a chain of shops in Sydney,
has a strong connection with suburban re-
tailers, and has extended its activities to
Brisbane. It sells tobacco, haircuts, sport-
ing and wireless goods and mercery. Keen
competition and price-paring have been
endemic in many of the lines for years,
which largely helps to explain the groggy
movements of profits and dividends in the
table.
There has been no falter in the growth of
the business, but, owing to steadily-mount-
ing overhead, the co. has not got much bene-
fit from the larger trading:—
Gross Trading Exes. p.c.
Profits, etc. Expenses. Gross.
1912 .. £39,955 £28,819 72.1
1920 .. 106,780 78,178 73.3
1924 . . 101,598 87,321 85.9
1926 . . 120,202 104,512 86.9
t .. r’° 121.215 86.8
1929 .. 141,183 127,244 90.2
1930 . . 146,537 134,683 91.9
Despite adverse conditions the management
was able to further liven turnover last year.
Gross profits sprang £5354, but exes, took
all the increase and £2085 besides. Thus,
after striking off £3290 for depreciation
(Continued on next page.)


Watch Your
Step J
•
These are days when a man
may lose the savings of a life-
time.
These are days when a man
may lay the foundations of a
fortune.
The thing is to know. “The
‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” has im-
mense data at its disposal and
a staff of specially trained in-
vestigators and accountants.
It will help you to save losses
and make gains.
SEPTEMBER NUMBER
SATURDAY NEXT.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-;
PER ANNUM, 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Patents.— Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, 77
Castlereagh Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth
and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coli.ikon & Co., 483 Collins. Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Exchange
Arranged. Geo. E. Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria
Buildings, Comer Collins and Swanston Streets, Mel-
bourne.— Advt.
* * * *
Australian-made Pioneer Wood Pipe has .met with
outstanding success wherever it has been used. Prac-
tically every 1 liquid-conveying job is within its scope,
and many big and important contracts have specified
Pioneer Wood Pipes. In addition to its high all-
round efficiency and great durability, this conduit
costs considerably less than any other type of pipe.
'Write for full details to the Australian Wood Pipe
Co., Ltd., Bums Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge),
Lane Cove, N.S.W.- — Advt.
i{s ❖ ❖ ❖
ORE AND METAL BUYERS—Norman Hill & Co.,
Ltd., Cathcart House, Sydney, Rep. largest American
and European Smelters. Buyers Dirty Tin Ores,
Copper, Lead, Gold, Silver, Antimony, Wolfram,
Scheelite, Tantalite, Molybdenite, and other ores and
concentrates. Properties examined and reported on.
—Advt.
ss % *■ #
Timmsville Timber Co., Ltd., Ulong, Dorrigo
District (N.S.W.), invites inquiries for select North
Coast mountain hard and soft woods, wholesale and
export lots. Steady supplies, graded, in sap or kiln-
dried. Electrical installation. Write or ’phone
direct, or to Sydney Office, 46 Trafalgar Street,
Annandale.— Advt.
* * * *
Bismuth. —We are buyers of Bismuth Concentrates
in any quantity. Write, giving' particulars of
quantity available, and send samples to Elliott
Brothers, Limited, Box 494 AA, G.P.0., Sydney.
—Advt.
=5! * # *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — -Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament, 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
DO YOU WANT TO ENTER A PROFESSION?
df
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and
enter a profession where there is a certainty of employment are advised to
send for our prospectus. Here is one profession where the supply is not equal
to the demand. NOW is the time to begin.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwuila Chambers, Castlereash Street, SYDNEY.
Make secure
what you can’t
insure.
gdf
SAFE PROTECTION for your books,
papers and valuables
Fire- and Burglar-resisting Safes. Strong-
room doors, etc. List of Banks, Insurance
Offices, Government Departments, Firms and
Corporations using these safes will be supplied
by request.
Buy direct from Manufacturer.
J. L. KELLY, 455 Macaulay Road,
Kensington, Melbourne, Wl.
(shown as written off in the table), the net
figure was 7.1 p.c. on capital as against 8.4,
10.8, 13.3 and 9.5 p.c. back to 1926. So
the final div. was cut to 6 p.c. p.a., making
7 p.c. for the year
Since the close of accounts, increased finan-
cial stringency, the new tariff and extra
taxation have further quitened trade, and
another advance in the price of foreign ex-
change seems probable. Mick Simmons is
not likely to escape the general experience,
and since the tangible support for capital is
rather frail (£20,809 in excess of the
£22,110 of goodwill at April 30), the margin
between earnings and distributions narrow
and the outside debt substantial, the pound
shares at 14s. fail to attract buyers. The
return at that figure would be a shade over
7 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The book value
of the cover figures out at 225. 6d. in net
tangibles.
Also the co. has been prevented from mak-
ing the best use of some of its freeholds
by the proposed re-alignment of George-
street,. Haymarket, though much of the diffi-
culty in this respect was recently removed.
But to finance its property purchases the co.
lias leant heavily on outsiders:—
1919. 1926. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital.. £llO,OOO £166,145 £166,008 £166,008
Liabilities . . 37,313 142,680 249,595 252,133
Freeholds .. 130,048 215,701 216,397
Plant, etc.... 20,277 24,795 23,906 21,859
Stocks.. .. 99,287 119,743 139,211 144,980
Book debts . . 21,861 49,438 58,9'90 60,081
Cash, etc. . . 6,371 6,898 4,968 602
Last year £llll was snipped off the mort-
gage (£133,976) and £3077 off the overdraft
(£21,876), -but £6727 was added to the
amount coming to sundry creditors
(£96,283). So there was a net increase of
£2538 in the debt, which exceeded the more
or less liquids, including stocks, by £46,470
at the close of accounts. Stocks, up £5769
during the year, are a promiscuous lot.
Rapson Tyre Co.’s Critical Position.
The Rapson Tyre Co. put up a factory
on the river bank at Launceston (Tas.), and
began production in November, 1928. Mean-
while a lot of capital had been spent and
charged to establishment, and trading since
has resulted in heavy losses. Thus the
finances have got into such a critical con-
dition that the board has proposed a sweep-
ing reconstruction, involving a drastic writ-
ing down of share capital and modification of
the preference rights. The idea is to clear
the way for the raising of fresh funds, which,
it is hoped, may save the undertaking.
At June 30, 1929, paid capital was
£501,206 in 197,940 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and
351,703 ords. —there was £48,437 owing on
calls. Trading losses then figured at £29,770;
establishment, etc., had run off with £70,121,
and goodwill stood at £60,000. There' 4 was
£100,618 coming to creditors, and more or
less liquids totalled £141,543, including
stocks (£85,900).
In February last the factory closed down,
and remained shut, owing to the overstocked
state of the market. Meanwhile negotiations
for the sale of the undertaking to the Dunlop-
Perdriau organisation dragged on, but these
came to nothing because of violent economic
changes. The chairman, in a not very satis-
factory statement of the position to the pre-
ference shareholders, says estimated trading
losses to Sept. 30 totalled £85,479, raising
the intangibles to £215,700. On that show-
ing another £55,809 of capital has been lost
during the last 15 months. The factory is
considered to be worth £20,947 less than the
figure at which it appears (£120,947), the
book value of the plant (£158,739) to be
overstated by £58,739, and falling prices to
have brought about a loss of £36,576 in
sundry stocks (£87,382). All manufac-
tured stocks have been sold. Neither the
nature nor the amount of the liabilities is
mentioned, but it is apparent that creditors
control the position.
To avoid a forced sale of the assets, and
possibly the loss of most if not all of the
pref. capital, the board has asked pref.
shareholders to forego accumulated divs.,
cancel the Tas. Government’s guarantee in
respect of the div., thereby releasing a
deposit of about £30,000, and convert their
£1 S p.c. scrip into fully paid 15s. 10 p.c.
non-cumulative prefs. with priority as to
capital. All this subject to the ords. being
written down 17s. 6d., reducing them to
2s. 6d. per share. The writing down would
reduce the pref. capital to £148,455, and the
ord. capital to £43,740. Also it would
enable the board to rub out £205,700 of in-
tangibles (leaving goodwill at £10,000),
and strike £125,421 off the book value of
tangible assets, mainly premises and plant.
After that the intention is to try to raise
£lOO,OOO by the issue of 8 p.c. participating
first-mortgage debentures with a currency of
10 years, a sinking fund of £9OOO half-yearly
to be established at the end of five years.
Presumably the money, or most of it, is
wanted to pay off the creditors. But the
board has been unable to get the issue
underwritten.
In effect, the pref. shareholders ar'' asked
to surrender their rights to debenture
holders, which is inevitable in the circum-
stances. If 75 p.c. or more of the pref.
shares do not consent to the scheme by Nov.
30, the directors intend to put the co. into
liquidation.
Last week, however, a meeting of some
energetic pref. shareholders in Melbourne
warmly criticised the board for its extra-
vagance, and appointed a committee to confer
with the bank and other creditors. The
committee has asked shareholders not to
sign the form of agreement sent out by the
board—-at any rate, not until the committee’s
report has been submitted to a further meet-
ing.
If creditors can be induced to take first-
mortgage debentures the position may look
more hopeful. Failing that, the survival of
the business will primarily depend upon
whether adequate funds can be raised. A
weakness in the scheme presented by the
board is the absence of any participating
rights for the prefs. In the event of recovery
it would be possible for the ords. to get back
the whole of their capital without the ss.
proposed to be struck off the prefs. being
restored.
Island Plantations, Ltd.
Island Plantations, Ltd., is a New Guinea
concern, registered in Rabaul, which has
come to Australia to sell profit-sharing bonds.
The co. has a nominal share capital of
£lO,OOO (amount issued and paid up not
stated), and has a grant of 3500 acres 32
miles from Rabaul at Od. per acre p.a. for
99 years from July 1, 1930. George Murray,
director of agriculture in the territory, says
the land is ideal for coffee cultivation.
The property is to be divided into three
lots, two of 1000 acres each and the other of
1500 acres. The first lot is offered the public
in bonds at £29 10s. for each half-acre. For
that the co. will transfer its title to the
trustee for the bondholders, clear and plant
and care for the property until the trees
begin to bear, as well as put up plant for
processing the crop on the spot. It then
takes on a new role as managing agent—
undertakes to maintain the plantation and
harvest and prepare the product to the dried-
bean stage for £l5 per acre p.a. After this
and all other exes, have, been paid, bond-
holders divide the net proceds. These, not
being secured by contract, will depend mainly
upon market conditions.
The Robusta coffee, which is said to
come into bearing within three years, is to
be planted. The chief market for the output
will be Australia, where /the New Guinea
article (duty free) is sheltered by a revenue
tariff of £2B per ton on foreign coffee. The
estimated net return per bond- advances
from £6 10s. in 1934 to £2O 10s. (69.5 p.c.)
in, 1936, when the trees are expected to be
in full bearing. The figures are based on
an average annual yield of lOcwt. per acre,
and coffee fetching Is. 3d. per lb. whole-
sale. Retail prices now range from 2s. 6d. to
3s. 6d. per lb.
Whether the alluring estimates can be
realised depends, upon many things, most of
them outside the co.’s control. A world sur-
vey of the coffee position discloses excessive
stocks, with production still on the increase.
But, of course, that;doesn’t matter much so
long as the local industry is sheltered and
the local production is limited;to local needs,
“Old Warden”.: Though attempts to tie up
the copper output by American interests have
flopped, and prospects for the tin ■ restriction
scheme are not dazzling, the collapse of
silver prices has forced producers of that
metal to turn attention to - the regulation of
supplies. Mexico has taken the lead by call-
ing a conference of all silver producers for
November. The world’s output of the metal
was 261 million ounces in 1929, of which
Mexico contributed roughly 100 million
ounces. To-date indications are that the
current year’s output will exceed last year’s.
The chief stocks of the metal are 370 mil-
lion ounces held in India and 235 million
ounces in Shanghai. So far nothing definite
has been done, but the Indian Government,
one of the world’s most important users
of silver, has agreed to co-operate in. adjust-
ing sales of silver to world consumption.
* * * *
Westralian gold producers are allowed
£5 ss. per cent, premium on their comman-
deered product by the Federal Government,
whereas the official “pegged” rate of exchange
on London is £6 10s. They therefore claim
that they are losing approximately one per cent,
of the value of the bullion, and that the gain
by the Federal Government and the loss to
all Australian producers is about £16,000
a year.
* * * *
Freney Co. (W.A.) is full of hope. Its oil
bore in Kimberley has been cemented to
a depth of about 3000 ft., where “indications”
were recently reported. The cement is now
hardening and drilling is expected to be
resumed in a few weeks. A lot depends on
the success of the cementing.
* * * *
Last year Gt. Boulder (W.A.) made a
profit of £14,868 as against £23,433 for
the previous 12 months. One three-
penny div. (£21,875) was paid. Ore reserves
at 80,372 are down about 4000 tons. Since
the co. first started operations 36 years ago
it has dug out about million pounds*
worth of gold and paid £6,064,091 in divs.
on a capital of £175,000. The grade of ore
mined by tributors is getting poorer, and
generally the position from a profit-earning
standpoint is not promising.
* * * *
South Kalgurli has paid a steady 25 p.c.
div. for the last 10 years, but chairman
Marker says it can’t maintain that rate of
distribution in the future. His prediction is
based on a falling grade of ore and swollen
costs, due to increased taxation and workers’
compensation insurance. The co. gets a
little extra from the gold premium, but the
help from this source isn’t nearly sufficient to
offset the additional charges mentioned.
* * * *
Last year tributers in the Great Boulder
Proprietary divided £178,742, less royalties
£33.015. The co. netted only £14,867, and share-
holders went hungry. Over the last three
years one div. of 3d. per share was paid,
London directors have drawn £lO per week
each, and most of the tribute parties and
their backers did well. In the circumstances
a sale to tributers seems as good a move as
any.
H* ¥
The North Fingal Extended Syndicate has
taken a six-months’ free option over three
areas on Clark’s line of reef, 11 miles south
of Yalgoo (W.A.). A crushing of 30 tor 3
stone from one prospecting shaft, 30ft. deep,
yielded 3oz. gold per ton. From another
shaft 30 tons were crushed for just under
loz. per ton.
& « * *
Tin Options, a Melbourne show which
originally had an idea of tin dredging in
Malaya, but instead had a look at some
Westralian gold leases, and also had a sniff
at an iimn-ore proposition at Yampi Sound
in the far N.-W., has definitely abandoned
the g.-m. leases. Undiscouraged, however, the
directors are considering the raising of capi-
tal to test a lease at Lakes Entrance (Vic.),
and may form a new co. to work the pro-
perty. At June 30. the co. held £5Bl in
cash and deposits. There was £l5O coming
to creditors; debtors stood at £3058.
* * * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) In the event of the repudiation of
our debt, talked about by our Labor politi-
cians, tvould I lose my hard earnings, which
[ have in the Government Savings Bank?
(2) Would you advise me to draw out of
the bank? —8718.
(1) : As far as we know, repudiation of
locally hfeld debt is not suggested. It is only
the outside creditors these gentlemen propose
to rob. Repudiation would, however, pro-
voke a local crisis, resulting in a fall in
the value of most of the securities with the
bank; and that would lead to reconstruction,
in which depositors would certainly lose
some of their money. (2) Don’t worry.
This country may be a fool, but it is not
a rogue. There will be no repudiation; so
leave your money where it is.
If John Smith in Aussie buys £1,000,000
worth from T. Hook in England, and 11.
Robinson in England buys £500,000 worth
from Jim Jones in Aussie, that would leave
John Smith about £500,000 in debt? Why
should Government have to borrow money to
pay a debt contracted by John Smith? —8743.
It doesnit have to. By borrowing overseas,
Australia simply provided John Smith with
the means of buying more than Australia
could pay for. But the debt does not remain
with John Smith. It remains with Aus-
tralia. Australia can pay for, say, 80 mil-
lions of goods. That is to say, it has
enough exports to pay its interest and leave
80 millions over. But through the Govern-
ment borrowing 20 millions in London,
importers can buy 100 millions’ worth of
goods. The importers pay the Government in
Australia through the banks by cheques or
notes; and the Government uses the real
money in London to pay for the goods.
lam a trader in the New Hebrides. Re-
cently 8., P. and Go. refused to give any
further drafts on Sydney, and thereby we
are prevented from buying our goods in Aus-
tralia. Can you tell us why? —B427.
In June lost the New Hebrides (Con-
dominium) Government depreciated the Aus-
tralian £ to 116.35 francs. English currency
is at par. Until the Government re-estab-
lishes the Australian currency on the former
basis of 120 francs to the £, exchange will
be difficult. 8., P. and Co. are subsidised
for the carriage of mails and passengers, but
have always also afforded a certain amount
of convenience in regard to exchange. The
discounting of Australian currency by the
Government has, however, necessitated a dis-
continuance of this. The Condominium
postal authorities have been asked to pro-
vide this service. Incidentally, through the
action of the Condominium Government in
discounting Australian silver, considerable
quantities of it have already been exported
from the New Hebrides back to Australia.
The names of the holding co. of (1) G.
F. Sewell Pty., Feotscray (Vic.), and (2)
Australian Spark Plugs Pty., Spencer-street,
M ell) ourne ? —8532.
(1) Mr. A. Timmins, of Lion Rolling
Mills, a director, is understood to be the
owner of this business. (2) Aus. Spark
Plugs Pty. is itself a holding co. (of Brass
Automatics Pty.) and is not a subsidiary.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
D.T.A.8.: Much stronger than the one you
were in. See B. l/l/’30... .William P.: Unfortu-
nately yes. The Mercantile Bank shares were £5
each. See B. 6/8/’3O. .. .M.1.R.: Debentures come
in ahead of prefs M.W.: (1) Not in a position
to offer much assistance. (2) Not a div.-payer and
not likely to be for years.... 666: The secretary
may know of a buyer. There is no open market for
the shares. See B. 11/6/’3O ... .C.A.M.: Quite sound,
though early bonus prospects are not brilliant....
A.J.8.: Well-selected - insurance has its advantages.
....M.K.: Merely an investigating co., in which
certain Broken Hill cos. hold all the shares, Work
has not yet been decided upon.... J.A.: A unit in
such a ease means 1 per cent, of metal... .F.S.C.:
We wouldn’t chance it, but would apply for a
new policy elsewhere.


THE SLOGAN FOR TO-DAY
Australian Products for Australian Markets
T
x
Sue
)
00®
ICULTU
MfCTTER
MACHINER
MUX
COOK.
z3BK
’RBWtrai
T4QTOR
Bp
Muroß--
mm
iroM-
WARE
CHEMICALS
raws
juees^
PAP>T3
HOKpEEDS
HEtP IBUILDZRS
DIP REQUIRES
Nmm
ES
l '^eed
MEav. t
CAKE.
iWIOEIt
%
gCHwig
%
*ol*
iron
Porn
"\UIV I- -—^
t*-OUR
SUP
wo
3 SUGAR c
IS EXCHANGED!
FOR 50UTHERN
4 GOODS
>ots
5?0J)
’5.
a
CS
SUGARS
THUS PROMOTING
RECIPROCAL
prosperity
THROUGHOUT THE
COMMONWEALTH
4^o
r
OTHER
COMMON
rt\€>
——
SWEET ARE THE USES OF RECIPROCITY
FACTS ABOUT SUGAR
Sugar is one of Australia's most important industries.
Its importance, however, is not generally recognised, because the pro-
duction of cane sugar is necessarily restricted to our tropical and sub-tropical
areas, which are remote from the chief centres of population.
There are 8000 sugar farms and 30 sugar mills in Queensland and
Northern New South Wales. : The value of the annual production of raw
sugar is over £10,000,000, and directly and indirectly the industry provides
employment for 30,000 persons, whose wages amount to £6,000,000 a year.
Many coastal cities and towns are wholly or partly dependent upon the
sugar industry. ,
The industry represents permanent assets valued at £50,000,000. Money
invested in the sugar towns and in public works in sugar districts, such as
roads, railways, wharves, harbor improvements, schools, etc., is just as
directly invested in the sugar industry as the capital represented by cane-
farmers and sugar mills.
The sugar consumed in the Commonwealth is conveyed to the refineries
in Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and West Aus-
tralia in Australian ships, officered and manned by Australians.
Queensland depends almost entirely upon primary production, and there-
fore provides an extensive and lucrative market for commodities manufactured
in other States.
It can be truly said that Queensland sugar is exchanged for Southern
goods, thus promoting reciprocal prosperity, throughout the Commonwealth.
(See illustration.)
Sugar purchased from other countries would have to be paid for in gold.
During the war, when sugar was rationed in Great Britain and many
other countries, Australia had an abundant supply for both domestic and
manufacturing purposes, and our exports of jams, jellies, canned fruits,
condensed milk, etc., were worth many millions of pounds sterling.
While manufacturers who largely use sugar were paying from £6O to £ 1 60
(in 1920) per ton in Great Britain, and up to £137 in America, the Aus-
tralian manufacturers were supplied at prices far below world’s parity, and
were thus enabled to undersell all competitors.
In 1920, when the Australian price of raw sugar was £3O/6/8 per ton,
the British Government bought 200,000 tons from Mauritius producers at
£9O per ton. I
All Australian manufacturers of commodities containing sugar are, and
always have been, supplied with sugar at world’s parity for their export trade.
Any statement to the contrary is absolutely untrue.
Moreover, manufacturers using Australian sugar receive a rebate of
£4/5/. per ton on the sugar contents of goods exported to Great Britain.
No Bounty was ever paid to the Queensland Sugar
Producers. Under the Excise and Bounty (so called)
legislation—repealed in 1913—£4 per ton Excise was
collected, and £3 per ton Rebate returned on compliance
with prescribed labor conditions, the net result being
that the sugar industry was taxed to the extent of
£2,692,329.
Two-fifths of Australia lies within the Tropics. Of this vast territory
only the sugar districts and some adjacent areas can be regarded as effectively
occupied. In striking contrast, parallel latitudes in Northern and Western
Australia are practically empty and unproductive.
Australia is the only country where cane sugar is produced by White
Labor, and is also the only country where European settlement in the Tropics
has been successful. Notwithstanding the outcry with regard to the foreigners
in the industry, which syrises from their concentration in a few areas, at least
90 per cent, of the farmers and sugar-workers are British.
The services of the sugar industry in maintaining the ideal of a White
Australia are inestimable.
In protecting our own sugar industry by excluding black-grown sugar
by means of the embargo, Australians are protecting their own interests,
If sugar from, say, Java were allowed to come in and displace the product
of our own fields and mills, the Javanese would be spending in their own
country the good Australian money sent overseas to pay for this commodity.
Not a copper of this money would return to this country for the purchase
of any produce of ours. The inescapable consequence would be that the
millions of pounds sterling now spent by those engaged in the Australian sugar
industry would be no longer circulated in this country. That surely would
be a national calamity!
Authorised by the Queensland Susar Industry Defence Committee


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers'
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT T-TREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard oi Quality throughout the Empire,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety F-usa
Detonators
Cartridges
Head Ulhee,
Brisbane.
THE EQUITABLE LIFE
Assurance Company of Australasia, Ltd.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Office: 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Company issues every variety of Probate, Whole
Life, Endowment, Children’s Endowment, Combined
Benefits (All Sicknesses) and Persona’ Accident Policy.
Policies provide for payment of Hospital Expenses in
lump sum or partial disability, and for cessation of
premiums on total disability. Secure full particulars from
any of the Company’s offices.
FREDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner a,
la carte from 1/6. Inclusive winter tariff, £3/13/6
weekly. Special quotations for sporting bodies, etc.
Situated right opposite Spencer Street Station, no
taxi fares; railway porter carries baggage across if
necessary. Please write for detailed tariff card.
Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is sufficient address.
ABORIGINALITIES
SAFETY FIRST.
DAD: “Ride him on the flat down here, Jacky!”
JACKY: “No fear. Ride him on hill up there; not so far to fall;"
“Woorak”: The grave of Vic.’s last abo.
king, at the Coranderrk cemetery (where
over 150 blacks have been buried), is marked
with a decaying headstone which
bears the almost obliterated in-
scription : “Sacred to the memory
of William Barrak, Aboriginal
King of the Yarra Yarra Tribe.
Died at Coranderrk, 15th August,
1903, aged 85 years. A quiet,
good Christian.” Barrak, the
last of the Yarra Yarra tribe,
was a youth of 17 when John
Batman, chief founder of Mel-
bourne, visited Port Phillip in
1835. He went to school at
Henry Danghorne’s mission
house, on the site now occupied
by the shrine of remembrance.
As a young man he joined Capt.
Dana’s band of native mounted
troopers and gave good service.
Retiring, he became an abo. poli-
tician and occupied a tribal
throne. Just prior to Graham
Berry’s departure for England,
Barrak arrived in Melbourne and
sent him the following note: “We
have come to see you because
you have done a great deal for
the aborigine. And now you
leave Victoria to go to England,
where we may never see you no
more. We give you a small pre-
sent with our love. When you
go away keep remembering , the
natives, for the natives will
always remember you.”
“Cursem”: McWhuflle, senior partner of
McWhuflle and Whaffem, dry-salters, looked
up from a consideration of 943 sales-tax
problems to discover that he had a visitor.
“I won’t take up an unnecessary minute of
your time, Mr. McWhuflle,” said the suave
young salesman. “I want to interest you in
a proposition that is not only commercially
but nationally important. The worst foes
of Australia outside the Taxation Depart-
ments ai’e droughts. You agree? Good!
Now here’s a plan to make the desert blossom
like the rose, to increase productivity, to
place the food supply on a pedestal where
it will stand independent of Jupiter Pluvius”
—— l “Gut it oot,” barked McWhuflle. “What
is your proposeetion ?” “Briefly, Mr. Mc-
Whuflle, it is this. We propose to acquire
vast areas in Centralia, which we shall
plant with potatoes and onions in alternate
rows. The onions, causing the eyes of the
potatoes to water, will thus precipitate suffi-
cient moisture” —— But at this stage
McWhuflle arose in fury, fell upon his visitor
and bit him so severely that he died of
hydrophobia.
“Cuchulain” : The 45 miles of road between
Yungaburra and Cairns (N.Q.), which runs
IT WASN’T HER BACON.
PERCY PIG: “Spring’s coming, and people’ll
want bacon and eggs every morning!”
FLORRIE FOWL: “But why worry about that, old dear? Eggs are easily laid.”
through the heart of the Bellenden Ivor Range,
twists and turns so much that at one spot
yon can look below you and count what
appear to be seven different roads all run-
ning in different directions. In nine miles
there are 602 horseshoe curves and the
longest straight stretch is just over 200 feet.
It is a wonderful piece of engineering.
* * * *
“A.M.R.” (New Hebrides) : On the island
of Futuna, the most
.southerly but one of
the New Hebrides
Group, catching flying-
fish is a favorite sport,
carried on at night.
Half a dozen cocoa-
nut-leaf torches, 12ft.
to 14ft. in length, are
taken on outrigger
canoes. Each of the
crew, in addition to
his paddle, is armed
with a net of the
butterfly type, attach-
ed to a 12ft. pole.
Strict silence is main-
tained till the canoe
is outside the reef.
Then the fish fly to-
wards the flaming
torches, which, butt
end resting on the
prow, are held up-
right by the standing
bowmen, who wield
their nets with one
hand. As the fish
skim the surface to-
wards the light,
paddles are dropped,
nets snatched from
their rests on the out-
ldgger, and all hands
scoop at the fish as
they whiz past on
either side. The scene
is weird. The burn-
ing torches light a
scene of black bodies
twisting and turning,
laughing and yelling,
as they jab at the fish,
flying around, over
and sometimes into
the canoe. Along-
side the black wall of
Futuna, nearly 3000 ft.
high, towers up into the darkness. When
the last torch in a canoe is finished, hand
linos are baited and fishing continues until
dawn.
“Sucre”: I record a touching example
of insect instinct. Finding a cockroach
struggling in a bowl of water, I placed in
the bowl half a walnut shell and assisted
him to clamber aboard. Giving him two
toothpicks for oars and a bead attached
to a piece of cotton for an anchor, I left,
him. Next morning I discovered he had
fastened a piece of the white thread to one
of the toothpicks and hoisted it as a dis-
tress signal. He had attached another piece
of the thread to the other toothpick and
sat fishing, fast asleep, exhausted by his
long vigil. The sight melted me to tears.
Taking a double-header of rum, I picked the
’roach out of the walnut shell, gave him a
tablespoon of hot gruel and sent him on
his way rejoicing. Now, mark well tin;
sequel. That creature never forgot my kind-
ness. My house now is chockfull of cock-
roaches.
:i: $ # *
“Kripple”: The order was “Pick up the
cook at the pub and take him out.” So
wo picked him up—it took all four of us
to do it —and with his swag made him as
comfortable as possible on top of the truck-
load of rations. Not knowing when or how
he would come to, we lashed him securely
with a rope. A few miles along the road
came a bellow from aloft. “Whoa there,
whoa there! Gripes a’mighty, I’ve been mis-
took ! I’ve been mistook! I ain’t Oodini
the eskerpolergist!”
* * * *
“E.S.” : A temporary mate of mine on the
Warrego was known as “The Waterspout.”
He was a queer old bloke who always looked
for high ground when he saw a black cloud
Coming across the horizon. “Might bust; you
never can tell,” was his remark, and if there
was a rumble of thunder he started as if it
had hit him. His nervousness was begotten
of a washout about three years before I met
him. He was shepherding one day about six
miles from Gowrie homestead (Q.), when a
cloudburst dropped a flood in his vicinity.
He lost his flock, and was nearly drowned
himself before the surge lodged him in a tree.
One night, when we were on flat country, a
thunderclap woke him, and he rolled up and
tramped 10 miles before morning. I saw him
next in Gharleville. “Many of those blokes
wh'o’ve disappeared in the bush,” he said,
“have been washed away in their sleep an’
buried under silt an’ rubbish. The silly cows
never look where they are. Keep high, an’
never trust the weather.”
* * ••!=
“Murra”: Recently captured a magpie
which had attached to its wing the complete
skeleton of a spurwing plover. Evidently
during a dispute the plover’s spur had
pierced the magpie’s wing and turned round,
becoming fast between the bones. It can
be surmised that to lighten his burden the
■winner ate his victim.
THE MAN FROM DUNGALEER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I saw him underneath the clock,
A little bushman spick and span,
Sunburnt and banned. I put him down
As station-hand or cattleman;
And to a friend who walked with him
I heard him say, as they came near:
“If everything turns out all right
I’ll drop a line from Dungaleer.”
AVe sat in corners, face to face;
The city lights were far behind;
And as we talked of this and that
I thought he had a troubled mind.
Straightway I proffered him a nip
And after that he seemed to cheer,
Then tapped me on the knee and said:
“I am the cook at Dungaleer.”
So onward through the night we sped
Where lights of lonely homesteads blink,
Then at the first refreshment bar
We slipped along and had a drink.
Soon after we had settled down
He grinned and said: “At Dungaleer,
All hands hop round when I’m about.
I am the blooming overseer.”
The night grew colder as it waned,
A bleak wind whistled from the west;
The little bushman talked and smoked
Nor seemed the least inclined to rest.
When next we stopped I mentioned tea,
But he had rum and then a beer,
And later, as I dozed, he piped,
“I’m manager of Dungaleer.”
He rolled himself within his rug;
But noisy, even in his sleep,
He babbled of his flocks and herds,
His well-bred cattle and his sheep,
Till weary of it all I slept
AVith blanket wrapped about my ear,
Yet once or twice I heard him say
“I own the whole of Dungaleer.”
At daybreak at our journey’s end
A sleety wind swept through the land;
No friend was there from Dungaleer
To proffer him a greeting hand.
His voice was husky as he said,
“I’ve twenty miles to walk from here
To seek a job at cutting scrub,
Or rabbiting at Dungaleer.”
I pitied him, as well I might,
For bleak and bitter was the day,
So bade him break his fast with me,
Then I might help him on the way.
He thanked me as a bushman would,
Few spoken words, yet all sincere....
And later on he got the job,
For I was boss at Dungaleer.
N.s.w.
JIM GRAHAME.


j&e 1 yotiw
pptuie^
W For complete comfort and
freedom, wear Denyer’s Elastic
Truss. Its patent water-pad
provides ideal support. Light,
pliant, sanitary.
Single, 30/-; Double, 407-
Trusses also made to order.
Rupture pamphlet, with self-measuring form, sent
(in plain envelope) free on request.
DENYER BROS.,
Dept. 1, 267 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
g
dfg
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. s
P. E. Loxton, Esq.; Win. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.Q.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
BanK offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
NX PERPETUAL FORESTS LTD.
The World’s largest Commercial Forestry Co.
Subscribed Share Capital £240,619
Bonds Subscribed exceed £3,400,000
Funds lodged with Trustees exceed £498,000
(Including over £250,000 invested in Australian Government Securities.)
Area planted Approx. 120,000 acres
Bankers Bank of New Zealand and their Agents
Head Office Kembla Building, Margaret Street, Sydney
Sole Brokers Smith Wylie & Co., Ltd.
Branches: Throughout Australia, New Zealand and the Federated Malay States. London, Bombay,
Java, Hong Kong and Shanghai.
f ?:!
Your
ro
Carson
II
Growers!
Grasp
and
Gain
the advantages
. arising from
that advice.
Winch combe, Carson
LTD.
enjoy outstanding popularity as selling brokers
because clients’ results show the benefit of the
firm’s capable work in selling the clip.
Winchcombe, Carson Ltd.,
Winchcombe House,
B.idge St., Sydney,
and
99-101 Eagle St.,
Brisbane.
“C.H.8.” : Revisited my birthplace, Exmoor
(Eng.), recently after an absence of over
40 years, and found very little was changed.
Chatting with an old inhabitant over a glass
of old gin and cider at the Hare and Hounds,
lie boasted that he was the “big master” on
the moor, owning over 500 black-faced sheep.
I told him I knew at least one man in Aus-
tralia who owned over 200,000 sheep. The
old chap chuckled till he nearly choked, and
I bought him some more fluid. “That’s a dam’
good lie,” he croaked as soon as he could
speak; “but you don’t take me in. He
couldn’t count ’em !”
•!- * * *
“Rotom”: “Old Warden’s” assertion (B.
13/8/’3O) that “given sufficient head, a jet
of water hits harder than a bullet,” under-
states the case. When we commenced sluic-
ing operations at Nadjidgomar (N.S.W.), a
felled gum-tree stump six feet in circum-
ference stood in the way. The sluicing
hydrant was turned upon the obstruction and
Avith two hits the stump was knocked clean
out of the ground roots and all. No bullet
could have administered as hard a punch' as
that.
* * * *
“J.E.W.” : One of the queerest sights to
be seen in Australia is the Limestone Range
—a great wall of limestone x-ising out of
the desert 200 miles inland from Derby
(W.A.). It extends for about 250 miles,
forming a towering crescent-shaped rampart
round the greater part of West Kimberley.
The average height is 100 ft., and forms a
plateau from one to three miles wide, rising
sheer out of the desert. Approaching from
the timber country it blocks the road. In
a fexv places it is possible to cross, but the
passes are miles apart, and have to be searched
for. Caves are plentiful, and for hundreds of
years the natives have used them for burial-
grounds. Three rivers cut through the Avail,
thq Fitzroy, Lennard and Barker. The Win- 1
gena Gorge, where the Lennard cut through,
looks magnificent, but is full of crocodiles. It
was here the native outlaw Pidgeon, armed
with a rifle and plenty of ammunition, shel-
tered in a cave and kept at bay a band of
29 police and cattlemen. Geologists say the
range is the top of a sunken mountain.
if :|i :•! *
“Cooramin”: Old-time selectors used to
complain bitterly of how the country was
cut up by “squattei’s’ surveyors.” The
squatters called the selectors “cockatoos,”
and the selectors called the squatters
“crows.” I was on a big north-eastern cattle-
run, now subdivided into farms; that was
a striking illusti-ation of how the crows kept
the Cockatoos off. The map disclosed little
squares and oblongs marked “Hoof and
Horn,” scattered all over an area of more
than 400 square miles. These plots em-
braced the best watex-holes and camps, ren-
dering the surrounding country of little use
to anybody else, but gave good free grazing for
the owners of the waterholes. One absolutely
EXPERIENCED.
M ANAGER (to applicant for night-watchman’s job) : "And have 'ee got any qualifi-
cations?”
WILLIAM THOMAS: “Well, Cap’n, my missus she’ve had twins twice over.”
dry selection had a square piece cut out on its
western boundary. In that square was a
small reedy waterhole. Just outside where
the fence reached its farthest west was a
fine lagoon, and coursing along near it was
a permanently running creek. That sectiou
was dummied. Other selection boundaries
showed the same remarkable dodging of
water. And there were stock reserves, water
reserves and timber reserves. That map was
a joke to the stockmen, but it made the
cockatoos curse. “Look where the blinkin’
crows ’ave picked the eyes out of the
country !” said an indignant settler. He had
to sink a well where he built, and make a
dam for his cattle a stone’s-throw from a
lagoon.
• * :!= * *
“Wattree”: Ahmed was a butcher before
he came to Australia, and to see him skin a
sheep was worth while. Cutting a small slit
in the _ hide near a hind hoof, he thrust his
finger in a bit, then blew in, and after work-
ing the .air up under the skin • and blowing
and poking alternately for a few minutes, he
had the entire carcase loose inside the skin
except at the head and. hoofs. A cut round
each hoof and round under the head ’and a
slit in the neck allowed the carcase to be
pulled clear, and a day after, with the aid of
a little thread and a nail, that skin became a
first-class waterbag, holding six to eight
gallons.
* * * *
“Te Whare”: Among Australian deadly
snakes the giant brown snake (Oxyuranus
maclennani) holds the record in point of
size, as it runs to over 10 feet. This big
serpent was discovered by W. McLennan
while collecting for the late H'. L. White, of
Belltrees, on the Coen River, Cape York.
The snake known as Pseudechis scutellatus
(Central Q.) runs the giant brown snake
fairly close in point of size, and resembles
it in coloring, and as it lurks in more
settled country than McLennan’s find, pro-
bably causes more trouble. Only to the tiger-
snake belongs the attribute of extreme aggres-
siveness. It will attack man without provoca-
tion. In this respect, however, no Australian
aphidian can hold a candle to the hamadryad
or king cobra (Naia hungarus ) of India and
Burma, which runs to 15 feet or over, attacks
man at sight, and is so swift that only a
very fast runner can escape it.
* * * -Js
“M'a'taki”: The paradise ducks of MX.
have a way of their own of teaching their
offspring to swim. I watched a pair nested
in a hollow in a tree, 25ft. from the ground.
The drake, making a terrific noise and fuss,
flew up to the nest and perched on its edge
whilst the missus pushed a duckling on to
his back, when he immediately planed down
to the ground and tipped it into the river,
repeating the process till every youngster was
afloat. The mother duck then planed down,
and a sort of roll-call took place, after
which the whole squadron moved off majesti-
cally under easy steam.
A STRANGER TO THE OFFICER.
THE OFFICAH: “Are you sure that’s the truth?”
THE BAD BOY OF THE CAMP: “Ab-sus-sus-solutely sus-sus-sus-certain, sir!”
OFFICAH: “Why are you so positive?”
BAD BOY: “Bub-bub-because you cuc-can’t recognise it, sus-sir!”
“Dai R.”: Paper-bag cookery, which a
few years ago had a short-lived vogue among
housewives, has been adopted wholeheartedly
by the modern swaggie. Unable to carry a
camp oven, but grown too dainty to eat the
aslies-baked damper of Joe Wilson and his
mates, he greases a sheet of newspaper,
places the dough on it, screws it up at the
top (leaving sufficient space to allow for
rising) and covers the whole first with hot
ashes and then with coals. From the coun-
try storekeeper he cadges a brown-paper bag,
into which lie puts dripping, steak, chipped
potatoes, and onions, inters it in the torridity
for 15 minutes, and breakfast is ready. Oat-
meal and water is similarly treated in the
preparation of porridge, but the first cover-
ing of ashes requires to be very fine for suc-
cess in this. Dumplings are cooked this
way, and the other day I saw an old stager
turn out an excellent plum-duff after four
hours’ boiling in a 141 b. paper bag. The
only fly in the unguent is that country store-
keepers are beginning to charge Id. each for
bags.
* * * *
“Karalee”: Curious how some forms of
aquatic life can lie dormant for years, or
decades even, to be revived when conditions
are favorable. Travellers by the Trans,
line last March, when vast tracts of the
Nullarbor Plain were covered by flood waters
for the first time within living memory, told
of a small green shrimp, up to half an inch
in length, which disported itself in the
temporary lakes. None of the observers had
ever seen anything like it before, or had any
idea whence it came, but a leading entomolo-
gist has identified it as something called the
apis, possibly after an Egyptian god. Accord-
ing to this authority, it might exist in some
stage of arrested development for 50 years-
like wheat which has lain for centuries in
Egyptian pyramids without losing its ger-
minating power. Probably a phenomenal
rainfall on the Nullarbor Plain doesn’t come
much oftener than Halley’s comet.
* # * $
“Mako”: Willy Wagtail is made of the
material of heroes. We had for days been
marvelling at the intrepidity of a member
of the tribe as he swooped insultingly down
and frolicked in the path of our . dignified
Persian cat, following this with an exhibi-
tion of fancy dancing on pussy’s head. But
while he thus demonstrated his contempt for
the feline tribe he was unaware that lie was
being stalked by Felix minor, who one day
with a long jump cleared his parent’s head
and ended up with Will in his mouth. The
family gave chase and captured Felix, who
sturdily refused to release his victim. All
this time Willy, still very much alive,
scolded loudly and furiously and endeavored
by agitated kicks to gain freedom. A sharp
shaking proved successful; William, with a
final scream, flew off and perched on a near-by
branch. Was he chastened by his experience?
Not a bit! Ten minutes later he was again
giving a song and dance on the old cat’s
head, telling the world his opinion of cats
and their habits.
$ * * *
“Si Anu”: Talking of tree-climbers, Amit,
a Kadayanu, one of the indigenous population
of Labuan Island, Borneo, is the finest climber
of cocoanut-trees I have ever seen, and could
give several, yards’ start even to the.coeoanut
ape mentioned in a recent Bulletin. His
big toe is stuck out at right angles: to his
foot. I don’t know whether this is a heri-
tage from his remote ancestor, the spectral
tarsius (vide Prof. Wood-Jones, of Melb.
Uni.), but in ascending a tree he uses the,
aberrant toe exactly like a thumb, grasping
the trunk as firmly with his feet as with
his hands. I once offered 50 cents to the
first Kadayan youth who reached the top
of a tree, let drop a nut and reached the
ground again. Six boys were started off
from the foot of six trees approximately of
the same height, girth and perpendicularity.
Amit waited until his friends were halfway
up and then he started, reaching the branches
just before his competitors. But that was
not the most staggering part of his feat.
He again waited until his cobbers had clawed
their way half-way down. Then he let go
and slid down to the bottom like a streak
of greased lightning, simply guiding himself
by touches of his .hands on the trunk. He
startled me so much that I never asked
him to repeat the performance.


ADELAIDES Best-Value Hotel
MORE COMFORT
—AT LESS COST!
dfg
Every facility for en-
joyable living at low
cost. Meals a la
carte from 1/6. 300
rooms, 100 bath-
rooms. Hot and cold
water in all rooms.
Yale locks on all
doors Fire - proof
throughout. Cour-
teous service. £3/10/-
weekly. Bed and
Breakfast from 6/6.
Grosvenor
NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION
v
.. New Zealand's
Daintiest Delicacy..
Tiny inch-long fish, unique
in flavour .. . found only
in New Zealand’s sparkling
streams, and then for but
three months of the year,
WHITEBAIT is a delicacy
beyond compare. Served
from the can, or fried in
batter, you are sure to
‘rave’ about WHITEBAIT
as do New Zealanders—
who send us these delicately
flavoured, tiny fish straight
from their streams ... in
cans that bear the label
“St. George.”
Irvine & Stevenson’s St. George Co. Ltd. Dunedin, Nw Zealand.
171 Js
dfg
m
On This \
Subject of
Feeding :
Centuries ago dogs were carnivorous
and they still are their digestive
organs require meat so that meat must form
the basis of any satisfactory food for dogs.
KEN-L-RATION —the Dog Food Supreme—
contains all necessary ingredients for keeping
dogs in good condition.
Packed in 1-lb. tins. All dealers stock it.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from JRK
W. C. SCHWAB. P.O. Box 1821, Melbourne
nSSi'B>BSW3
THE MAN
ON THE BAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CR PARK & CASTLEREAGH
STS SYDNEY
KILLING ON THE FARM,
i Australian” : When a beast is to be
kiiied for beef, or a crippled horse put out
ot its misery, the job is usually done with
a gun. In many cases the operator aims at
the forehead midway between the eyes. This
is too low, and much unnecessary suffering
is inflicted, while a good deal of ammuni-
tion is wasted. Stand out in front of the
animal,, and if there is nothing else to dis-
tract his attention he will look straight at you.
P C 01 U b ? in a lum 'U and don’t get excited.
It his head is down somewhere about his
knees or thrown up well over his back, wait
until he raises or lowers it to the level of
liis withers; then aim at the centre of his
head about two inches below the poll, press
the trigger, and hop in and bleed him.
It does not require a high-powered weapon
to kill a bullock or horse. I have killed an
old bull with a single shot from a rook and
rabbit rifle, using a .22 short cartridge. But
while shooting is all right for a man who
understands the job, there is a method better
suited to general use.
Bore a lin. or ljin. hole through one of
the supports of the gallows about 4ft. from
the ground, and rime out the sharp edges ou
each side to prevent cutting or fraying the
rope. Rope the animal around the horns,
pass the running end of the rope
through the hole and take a turn around
the nearest post in the yard and put your
“heeler” on to him. Take up the slack
as he brings the animal up, until its head
is hard up against the gallows-post and then
make fast. Next take a sharp-pointed “stick-
ing” knife and place the point at the junc-
tion of neck and skull, with the blade in a
vertical position, and give it a sharp tap
with a piece of batten or something similar.
This severs or perforates the spinal-cord.
When the animal goes down, slack off the
liead-rope and bleed him.
This method leaves the carcase exactly
where the slaughterman wants it, and does
away with the necessity of hitching a team
to it to haul it up to the gallows, as some-
times happens when the animal is shot. Kill-
ing is a much easier job if the yard is pro-
vided with a crush with the gallows attached.
Sticking a heavy pig is a tough job for
one man. Scatter a handful of corn before
him, and while he is busy picking it up
shoot him in the head. Be sure you don't
“slioulder-stick” him, as badly bled pork
doesn’t make sound bacon.
When killing the sheep don’t cut its throat
to the point of decapitation, as that method
makes a dirty, gritty job. Run the knife
straight through, well up under the jaws,
and give it a twist as you draw it out. Place
your left hand on the nape of the neck and
press down; then take hold of the chin with
the right hand and bring the head back with
a sharp jerk, and the animal dies a prac-
tically painless death.
Cutting the heads off poultry makes a
messy job, and twisting or pulling the neck,
unless done by an expert, generally causes
strangulation and a slow and painful death.
Hold the bird between your knees, place the
fingers of your left hand over its beak with
your thumb around the back of its neck and
press the beak down against the neck; then
run a small, sharp-pointed bradawl through
the base of the skull into the brain. The
job is cleanly and quickly completed without
inflicting unnecessary pain.
FLOOD RAILS.
“Mulyan”: Most settlers in “wot” dis-
tricts have trouble with fences that cross
creeks and gullies, through floods toppling
the posts or washing rubbish down and
wrecking the whole barrier. This can be pre-
vented by the use of flood rails.
Put a stout post, sunk at least 2ft. in the
ground, on each side, above the ordinary
flood level; run three No. 8 wires across,
passing the ends through an auger hole in
each post a little higher than the level of
the bank, key tightly, and then twist the
three together. To this cable hang a light
rail, a foot below it, with a piece of wire
at each end and one in the middle. Then
hang the next rail to that, tlie third rail to
the second, and so on, till the bottom is
reached.
A quicker way is to hang the rails with
one piece of wire right down at each end,
merely looping it round the rails. But this
makes a rather stiff barrier, and rubbish
accumulates at the bottom, which may do
damage. When the rails are’ hung separately,
each one lifts as the water rises, allowing
all rubbish to pass underneath, and as the
wat r recedes the rails drop back into their
proper position. They should reach from
bank to bank, with sufficient space at the
ends to allow them to swing without catch-
ing against anything.
\\ here the banks are not perpendicular,
rails of different lengths can be used to fit
the gaps.
SCHOOL PASTURE CLUBS.
“Country Ped.”: Sixty per cent, of our
national wealth comes from pastures. The
Vic. State Schools Horticultural Society has
set out to educate children and parents in
this important matter. Ten selected schools
in each of the 30 inspectorates are to
be asked to forni pasture clubs, to lay
down, in co-operation with local landowners,
experimental grass plots. Fertiliser com-
panies have offered to donate the fertilisers
required; seed merchants are providing the
seed.
With help from the Agricultural Depart-
ment and the Council for Scientific and In-
dustrial Research, this movement will go
far to improve the pastures of the State,
and at the .same time will help to inculcate
in children a genuine love for the land. It
should be Australian-wide in its application.
SAFFRON THISTLE DEFENDED.
“Tuart” : That argument as to the merits
or demerits of saffron thistle was revived
at the N. S. Wales Farmers and Settlers’
conference. The Bulletin contributor who
started the controversy proclaimed the thistle
“a great standby in a bad season,” and
quoted the experience of a Ma State pas-
toralist. A Victorian replied to the effect
that the thistle was “a dangerous feeder” and
should rightly figure among the noxious
weeds.
The Victorian’s opinion had supporters at
the conference, one delegate tabling a motion
protesting against the thistle being struck
off the list of declared plants, and another
contending that it wasted the land for, many
months. But there was a regular chorus of
praise for “saffron.” “I have a lot of it on
my place,” said a man from Young, “and
my next-door neighbor has none. This
year my sheep were mud-fat; his were stag-
gering all over the place. But for ‘saffron’
thousands of sheep in my district would have
died.” “I reckon it saved 50,000 to 100,000
between Urana and Conargo,” said a delegate
from Clear Hills. “My own flock of 3000
lived on the thistle for a year.” “I’ve known
it to carry three sheep to the acre,” inter-
posed a grazier from Geurie. “Declare it
noxious, and a lot of Riverina landholders
will have to walk off their properties,” con-
cluded an Ulabo man.
The motion condemning the thistle was
lost by a large majority.
CERTIFICATED RYE-GRASS SEED.
“Avon”: Maoriland, having built up a
big dairying export industry mostly on the
basis of selected pedigree stock, milk tests,
grading of produce and rigid inspection, has
come to the conclusion that it is equallyi
important—perhaps as important as all the
other factors put together—to ensure that
pastures are laid down from pedigreed and
certificated seed. For two years the Plant
Research Station at Palmerston North has
been conducting a sort of heresy-hunt among
the rye grasses, the aim being to discover
a strain of true perennial grass. For this
work one of the world’s leading specialists
on grass, William Davies, of Wales, has
been lent to the Dominion. The experi-
ments were not confined to Dominion strains,
but included seeds from England, Ireland,
Scotland, Germany, Sweden, Poland and the
U.S.A.; the results concern pastoralists all
the world over, and particularly in Australia,
which imports £25,000 worth of M.L. rye-
grass seed annually.
It was discovered that the best true peren-
nial rye-grass in the world is grown in the
Hawkes Bay and Poverty Bay districts, the
main standards applied being ability of the
grass to recover after cutting, quality as
fodder, persistence and resistance to rust.
The South Island ryes have been proved
to contain only from 1 to 8 per cent, of true
perennial strain* whereas in the N. 1., dis-
tricts mentioned the average percentage in
125 liites tested was 96. The investigators
declare definitely that “no overseas country
is producing a true perennial rye-grass type
suitable for. pasture purposes.” Buyers out-
side M.L. are warned that much of the seed
exported under the name “Poverty Bay rye-
grass” is false perennial of South Island
origin.
For the protection of buyers the M.L.
Agricultural Dept, is initiating an exten-
sive scheme of rye-grass seed certification,
the ultimate result of which should be to
ensure the distribution in the Dominion and
abroad of the very finest type of one of the
hardiest and most prolific of all fodder
grasses.
EDIBLE SHRUBS FOR HEDGES.
“L’Fou”: Why not more kurrajong and
saltbush hedges? Shelter trees are all very
well, but they are too draughty in wind-
swept country, unless they are thick enough
for a young forest. The usual objection to
hedges in paddocks is that they take so much
out of the soil and need cutting. But
edible shrubs will yield more fodder than
could be got from the same strip of ground
by grazing, and their breakwind service is
given in.
Don’t stint cultivation to get them started,
and they will need a wide double fence to
protect them until of the desired height.
Cut them back to get denseness. Later on
stock will attend to the trimming, but the
shortened knobby branches will prevent
them getting far enough in to eat the hedge
right out.
In a drought a little green leafage works
wonders in balancing the dry fodder.
THE SOYAREAN.
“Innisfail”: A wave of enthusiasm for
growing the soya bean swept over parts of
the Empire a year or two ago. It reached
South Aus., and Mr. W. D. Reed, of Adel-
aide, got supplies of seed from Ontario and
Southern Rhodesia. His experience, as com-
municated to the “Advertiser,” is disappoint-
ing.
Says Mr. Reed r “I did not touch the
north nor the south-east, but had tests car-
ried out at Clare, Aldgate, Brighton, Lock-
leys, Yorke Peninsula, Loxton, Cadell, Ameri-
can River and other places. In no case has
any success been attained. Certainly, we
have had a dry season, such as we all hope
may not recur for a long time. Professor
Richardson assures me that the bean can
only grow in the summer, and must have
plenty of moisture, either by rainfall or
irrigation.”
Mr. Reed still has some seed left, and
offers it to settlers on the Murray and in
the south-east. He suggests that the climate
of the Mt. Gambier district may be more
favorable to the plant than that of the drier
places which have been tried.
The soya-bean industry is a big thing in
Manchuria. The yield in 1928 was 5,298,800
tons, valued at 110 million yen—upwards of
11 millions sterling. Australia is one of the
many importers of the useful vegetable—
or was.
SELLING PIGS.
“R. E. Ward”: In my experience, selling
pigs over the scales is a better proposition
in N. S. Wales than selling by auction.
That is provided you have the right class of
animal —-pigs seven to eight months old, of
good length, big and what is termed “lean.”
I sold a line of live-weights for an average of
645. 4d. Their estimated dressed weights
ranged from 1211 b. to 1351 b., and I was
paid 6d. per pound. Local factory prices
on that day were sid. and sfd. per pound
over the scales, killed. These factories pay only
top price on pigs 1001 b. to 1251 b., actual,
whereas top price is paid on pigs 1001 b, to
1351 b. selling live weight. One factory has
a buyer operating at sales and purchasing
from farmers at the sty. He will give top
price per pound on pigs up to 1351 b., and in
odd cases, if the pigs are prime, he will take
them a few pounds over that, but will only
pay on 1351 b. ; yet his factory will only pay
top prices up to 1251 b,, actual, when pigs
are forwarded by the farmer.
I do not think 30 per cent, deduction on
the live weight is too much, though it has
been complained of, as the pigs are for-
warded to Sydney to be slaughtered. The
difference between actual live and actual
dressed weight runs from 18 to 25 per cent,
when the pigs are weighed, slaughtered and
weighed again within a few hours. Factories
have to deduct 30 per cent, on account of
shrinkage in weight, the result of handling
and transporting over long distances, and
the possibility of being unable to slaughter
for perhaps 12 to 36 hours after arrival.
The line I sold would not have netted
more than 625. by auction. Top price on
that day was 665. for baconers, or 645.
after deducting commission. My pigs were
corn-fattened.
A CATCHMENT FOR A DAM.
“Wescocky”: If you have a fairly long
clay rise in your paddock—l am addressing
Westralian wheat-belt farmers in particular
—you can make a good catchment for a dam.
Select your dam site either at the foot of
the rise or slightly up the slope. Now
measure off a piece of ground about 20
chains long by 10 chains wide, directly
behind the dam, the long measurement being-
up the hill. Have the bottom end of this
area about four chains back from the dam.
Scrub having been cleared, work up the
ground with a disc plough until the surface
is well loosened. As soon as the area has
been moistened by a good shower it should
be rolled —a heavy roller can be hired from
the Road Board —and the clay will set like
cement. Run a drain down each _ side of
the rolled area and then at a fair angle
across to the dam.
Any fairly heavy fall will send the water
running down the drains. The catchment
should suffice for a 1500-yard dam. It should
be rolled after every summer thunderstorm —
or, failmg these, after the first winter rains,
when the sun has still sufficient warmth to
dry and retoughen the surface.
BUNCHYTOP AND BEETLE-BORER.
“E.H.M.”: There are distinct signs of a
revival of the banana-growing industry in
N. S. Wales. The novice who intends to go
in for it should be forewarned against
bunchytop and beetle-borer.
To discover bunchytop in its earliest
stages a thorough investigation of the planta-
tion should be made at least twice a week
in summer and once a week in winter. The
first appearance of bunchytop is marked by
a dark green broken line running horizontally
from the mid-rib of the middle leaf. As the
disease develops the leaves become shorter
and more brittle, the broken lines more fre-
quent and distinct.
Beetle-borers are more difficult to detect.
They work just under the ground, and imme-
diately the infected plant, falls they migrate
to another. Effective traps can be made
from old banana-stools from which the fruit
has been cut. Sever the stools into four-
inch lengths with a cane-knife and place
them at the base of the plants; the beetles
will feed on these in preference to boring into
a growing plant. The traps should be
examined about once a week and the beetles
adhering to them collected and destroyed.
Efforts are being made to grow bananas
in North Westralia. There should be a good
market in that State, but the growers will
need to beware of the borer and bunchytop.
SPOTTED WILT OF TOMATOES.
An account of the investigations and
experiments conducted by three Austra-
lian plant pathologists—Geoffrey Samuel,
11. A. Pittman and J. G. Ball —concerning
spotted wilt of tomatoes has been issued by
the Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research. Spotted wilt was first observed
in Victoria 15 years ago, and has since
spread to all the States. It has done most
damage in South Aus., where because of
its ravages “the cultivation of outdoor toma-
toes on the Adelaide plains, once a profit-
able undertaking, is now practically aban-
doned on a commercial scale.” Within the
last two or three years it has also invaded
glasshouses, previously immune. >
There is no evidence that the disease is
transmitted by seed or by soil. The investi-
gators are satisfied that the principal agent
in spreading it is a species of thrips, Frank-
liniella insularis (“black carnation thrips,”
they suggest it should be called), which is
capable of infecting a tomato plant in six
hours. Frank , etc., is a common thrips in
many summer flowers in some of the States:
curiously enough, it is not found near Mel-
bourne, where the original outbreak is sup-
posed to have occurred, so some other insects,
as yet unidentified, must have been the
carrier in the first case.
So far no remedy has been found. Dust-
ing and spraying field plants and fumigation
in glasshouses yielded inconsiderable results.
Forty-eight varieties were tested for resist-
ance to spotted wilt; nearly all became
100 p.c. infected at the efid of each season.
Early Dwarf Red gave the lowest percent-
age of infection, and the small red currant
tomato showed a decided resistance. By
crossing this uncommercial variety with
Early Dwarf Red and others of the market-
able group a useful type, proof against the
wilt, may possibly be evolved, but the pro-
geny of the crosses will have to be carried
through for several generations, so it will
be a long job. .
SOAKING SUGAR-CANE PLANTS.
“Bios” : Germination of sugar-cane plants
may be improved (especially in the drier
districts) by soaking the cuttings before
planting. While soaking in water alone has
a beneficial effect, experiments conducted
by the Queensland Sugar Experiment
Station show that best results are obtained
by soaking in a solution of 21b. each of
slaked lime and Epsom salts and 100 gallons
of water. The solution is made up in an
open tank; the cuttings are placed in bags
and soaked for about 24 hours. Planting
must be done immediately the cuttings are
removed. The. cost is small, and the solu-
tion may be used several times.
TURKEY-REARING.
“Bronzewing”: The ipecacuanha-wine
remedy for blackhead in turkeys has in a
( Continued, on page 25 )


Pipina in'the popular favorite
M - ... mM M .. in ■■ ■——l ** ... ■ ■ n. in i ~
£
u.
u
CM*
U)
a
M* O
Mi
Z
SEALED UNDEPv, VACUUfvT*
\ninq(jm
SOLD LABEL
u
mIY,
OLD SCOTCH WHIShY
wnotau
mvn
ii
w.
m
m
m
smp&
m
- la
1 ii
i‘ .V < '* ' I KVS
MHiMMMaIV
>:K^5
»
:■•■ • .•■
t^sia
■Be
m
mm
m
WSmj&
X'i‘iA\H-Jh}^
nt
1®
it®
Hi 5E Hi ®
mi£>
S§
m
m
m
X
fig
ay
?\4£?
ssr.y Av
■ i
I
a
««s
MMi
Mi
13
s®
I®
«t§
Hi
SffiSrr^
■#s
Lf
>■" o*Vo,
o,^o«‘J
pnvjr'f- -
"nVIiTJ) 05
/MSIHM HOio-x ' -fy
-**v£%£*4*.
**»*
-*w
1
iP
%
<no*>
a
w
jhnyurpdf
QjJHJMf*
<§# 1 =>v
irar
s
'■/!'*•✓ r
£ 'V .
•’
v.w
V I


111!
I I
I ,1 \
:
V,\
v WWfl
NS
f
; t
a
i a ,;
/ ,\i
wr
IF
1
r>
□K
H
v
m
3%
///H
3
83*
o
4V-
V 1
< **
( e sS
A » Al> \Ae t!
„ \>o°*
k t&®.t tV e
.<. Csv a>*
X& V'* 6 '-
- te
O<V -c\e w\c^
p>* iX
PS>
s>*
\\
Make (he acquaintance
JryXMJL BRITISH
STERMOI.
MOTOR OIL
TbvM befriends foi' life/
Manufactured by Sternol, Ltd., an old-established
Lnglish firm with over half a century’s experience in
the oil trade, Sternol Motor Oil has earned a reputation
that could only be gained by a product of the highest
quality.
This is substantiated by the fact that in England,
Messrs. Sternol, Ltd., are supplying
The Air Ministry,
The Admiralty,
The War Office,
and many other Government Departments.
Sternol W.W. has been used and recommended by the
Austin Motor Co. (Birmingham), Ltd., for I 1 years,
and has the official recommendation of Messrs. Morris
Motors (1926), Ltd., and is approved in England by
such well-known car manufacturers as
Messrs. General Motors, Ltd.
(Buick, Cadillac, Chevrolet, Oldsmobile),
Messrs. Dodge Bros., Ltd.,
Messrs. Singer & Co., Ltd.,
Messrs. Vulcan Motors (London), Ltd.,
Messrs. William Beardmore & Co., Ltd., etc.
For your convenience and greater economy Sternol is being
sold in special
FIVE-GALLON DRUMS
Fitted with a Free Brass Tap.
This drum has proved very popular with motor owners, who
are thus assured of a plentiful supply of clean, fresh oil for the
car engine.
(Also available in 1-gal. and 4-gal. tins and 45-gal. drums.)
✓
Obtainable Only From
/» a3ii w n
/NtfdWG3 ? SVWQV
■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■»
WHTIIM
SYDNEY:
175 Clarence Street
MELBOURNE:
521-523 Collins Street
ADELAIDE:
157 Waymouth Street
PERTH:
432-436 Murray Street


Extra wear in
No thinning of the leather under
instep of this shoe. - . . .the sole
runs in even thickness right from
toe to heel. That greatly adds
to its wearing qualities.
Broadly welted, with an upper of
the finest calf, and sides low-cut
at ankle, this shoe is exceptionally
smart in appearance. The upper,
too, curves in a over
the instep arch. There s not the
least tightness or strain.
POSTAL ORDERS: Narrow,
medium and wide fittings are
available in all full and half sizes.
Specify width, and order, also,
a supply of Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin), or a handy
cleaning outfit (2/6).
Dark Tan Calf . . 50/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St, and 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,’’ SYDNEY.
FPL 192.
ROCKY MOUNTAINS
A SETTING of indescribable
scenic beauty tonic moun-
tain air, palatial world-famous
Chateau—a constant round of
pleasures in and out of doors—
riding, climbing, swimming,
dancing, lavish service. All ar-
rangements made before leaving
Australia. Don’t fail to see
Lake Louise in Canada. Litera-
ture on request.
CANADIAN PACIFIC,
247 George Street, Sydney.
1
m
llil" 11
11 111 •'
■i« iluiiW'i'i'liilsvjrill" ‘l' hi i up'
n mAWiWipik'N; M.'t " L
i i■ i ini* I TM l' 11
1 _ il^fe.l^,l^^,»rrTf(H : *lTTrTTTTlfil
SiilßG
111 inn
Util a
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
7hs Worlds Greatest 7ravel System I
The
Shave
Plough
Increases
Cultivation.
0
SHAVE’S PATENT STUMP-JUMP
REVERSIBLE DISC PLOUGH Is the
lightest draught Plough on the
market, and requires only two horses
instead of four.
The SHAVE PLOUGH enables you
to make full and good use of all
uneven ground which is inaccessible
to the ordinary Plough.
The SHAVE PLOUGH is made in
FIVE different types: —
Type D.—The Standard
Plough (double furrow).
Type B. Single - furrow
Plough.
Type M.-—For Market Gar-
deners (with high wheels).
Type O.—For Orchardists.
Type H.—Hard Ground.
For further particulars, send for
illustrated Booklet.
n
\*33
234-236 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
276-294 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy.
And at WARRNAMBOOL, BENDIGO.
HORSHAM, BALLARAT and PORTLAND,
VICTORIA.
THE
LODGE
SPORTS PLUG
(Illustrated)
alone possesses just those
special qualities that make it
the finest plug in the world
for motor-cycles and sports car
engines.
Stocked by all garages throughout
the Commonwealth.
58
w
LODGE 111
for sports
engines.
Price,
6/9
in sealed blue
metal box.
Lodge Plugs
Limited,
Rugby, England.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE A “ORANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
CIaSS SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probata; .1.0 Medical and Ho.pital awMT , B . BOOTH.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAw. I
sense revolutionised this branch of farming.
Until recent years turkeys were largely a
gamble, and when blackhead broke out your
birds and your money were gone, ip-day a
man can take on turkey-farming with less
risk than most other branches of agriculture.
When birds are kept apart from other kinds
of poultry and on soil that has not been used
for fowls, blackhead is not likely to attack
Poults show rapid growth when fed with
a ration similar to that given to chickens tor
the first eight or ten weeks, with lots ot
lucerne (of which turkeys are particularly
fond), and skim- or whole milk to drink.
The young birds should be kept partly con-
fined in yards, which should be as large as
possible; if space is limited, they should be
so divided that one is resting and growing a
Crop of green feed whilst another is m
useT Shift the birds from yard to yard as
often as practicable. The adult birds should
be given as much range as possible. Having
been reared in semi-confinement, they wi i
look for regular feeding times. Oats seem
to be their favorite gram, but wheat snoukt
also be fed for variety, and oats should
sometimes be sprouted. ,
As birds are required to be topped ott
for market, reduce the wheat and oats an
gradually put them .on to whole maize
which should form their sole gram feed until
sold.
A USE FOR WASTE OIL.
“0.C.”: I built an outhouse of concrete,
using lime, sand and stone. On taking o
the moulds (sheet steel ones, with wooden
frames), I found a good deal of the mortar
adhering to them, leaving the course very
rough. Having a tin of waste oil from the
car handy, I tried giving the moulds a good
coating. The next lot came oft cleanly,
leaving the wall very smooth and looking
like cement. . , • ,
I put on the next course without oil, ana
the wall was pretty rough. Oiled the next
course, with the same result as the first
one oiled. This was before the drouglit
broke, and I resolved to let the plastering
of the outside stand over till after the winter
had had ago at it. Now, the unoiled sec-
tions are looking weather-worn ; the oiled are
as hard and as smooth as cement.
Waste oil is cheap, and even if crude oil
had to be bought I consider it would pay
well to use it as I did.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
I am situated 600 miles from Perth on
the Australian Bight, 37 miles from Esper-
ance Bay. (1) Is there a market for sugar- •
beet in Adelaide and Melbourne . .
Would it pay to ship beet to those cities?
(3) Present market price and likely buyers /
(4) Correct proportions of fertiliser to user
—8231.
> (1) No market in either city. (2) No.
Transport costs (Is. a mile per ton by road
and rail), and ship freights are prohibitive.
(3) 40s. to 445. per ton delivered at Maftra
—the Maffra Sugar Co. is the only buyer
in Australia. (4) Growers in other States
use lewt. to 3cwt. of super, per acre, accord-
ing to soil and moisture conditions. No. Z
Complete Fertiliser is favored by many.
I am thinking of taking up grazing land
in the Kulkami district ( 5.A. ).• (1) How
could I establish good pastures on such land?
(2) What implements should be used? (o)
Would an “ Avance ” crude-oil tractor be help-
ful?—Bs74. .. „ '
(1) This land has an average rainfall ot
I4in., and the establishment of pasture de-
pends very largely on the character of the
season at seeding. If average or above aver-
age rainfall is experienced the chances of
success are much improved. The most hardy
pastures for such conditions are Wimmera
rye and lucerne. Good stands of these fod-
ders have been established in many low rain-
fall areas of South Australia. (2) The soils
of the district vary considerably. On the
heavier land working after every rain can
be regarded as good practice, the nature of
the implement utilised depending on the
tightness of the soil and the weeds present.
Where the land is fairly clean and . not
packed down the harrow would be sufficient.
For light land the working would be gov-
erned by the degree of dampness and the
tendency to drift, and you should be careful
to avoid tillage when the soil is very dry.
In this soil harrows are generally sufficient.
(3) It appears to be efficient and economical
in working. As a rule power farming is con-
sidered a little more costly than working
with horses, save on very, large areas, but
much depends on the individual.
(1) Is the fruit of the bean-ball tree dan-
gerous to horses ? I have known it to
poison cattle. (2) What causes blackleg in
cattle? If cattle die in a paddock from the
disease, how long will it be before the
paddock is clear of infection?— BsBB.
(1) Don’t know the plant. Send a speci-
men to the N.S.W. Agriculture Dept.,
Sydney, for classification. (2) Blackleg is
caused by a germ. It is a notifiable disease
under the N.S.W. Stock Diseases Act, and
if stock are suspected to be suffering from
it, advice should immediately be sent the
local inspector of stock. When cattle die
from this disease, they should be immedi-
ately burnt to ash and the surrounding area
limed. The germs will remain in a dormant
state for years, so tliat pastures may never
become entirely free from disease. A pamph-
let on the subject is obtainable from Stock
and Brands Branch, N.S.W. Agriculture
Dept., Sydney.
Ilow to cure thrush in a horse's frog?—
8460.
The hoof should be thoroughly cleansed
and dried, and then pure calomel or sub-
chloride of mercury, in powder, should be
inserted in the cleft of the frog with a blunt
knife once daily for three or four days.
Keep the hoof as dry as possible, and don’t
let the horse stand in manure or urine.
That’s the cause of the ailment.
(1) What is the cause of nagana disease
in horses? (2) Has it ever made an appear-
ance in Australia? —8178
(1) It is caused by a minute parasite
( Trypanosome) that multiplies in the blood
of affected animals. (2) No.
My goslings when about half-grown con-
tract diarrhoea the excrement being very
dark green. They lose the use of their legs,
pine away and die. Cause and cure? —8234.
Probable causes of the trouble are giving
the birds a feed without water always being
available; camping at night in damp quar-
ters, or a deficiency in the feeding. Give
5 per cent, by weight of bone meal in the
morning mash.
A grazier has his sheep shorn by contract.
Who is responsible for the 3d. tax on the
shearers’ wages f—8335.
The contractor must collect the tax due
in respect of wages ( plus allowances) paid
to the shearers, and will be personally
assessed on the basis of his income-tax
return.
(1) Best method of preparing wattle bark
for the market? (2) Names of Sydney
buyers ? —8279.
(1) Depends on buyers’ requiretUents.
Ascertain from them how they wish the
bark delivered, whether ground or simply
bundled. It is important that fresh bark
be protected from weather and dried under
cover so that rain may not leach out the
salts. (2) Farmers and Graziers’ Associa-
tion, Circular Quay; Ludowici and Sons,
117 York-street; Farleigh Nettheim and Co.,
80 Clarence-street; J. Bunee and Sons, Edge-
hill-avenue, Botany; James Ilardie Trading
Co., 378 Ivent-street.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“H.C.H.”: When lopping sugar-gums, see
that stock have no access to the loppings,
which are apt to be deadly in their effect
on sheep. Recently a number of sheep in
this district, Moama (Vic.),- died within 30
minutes after eating the gum-leaves, and 70
weaners died in similar circumstances in a
northern Mallee town last year. Sugar-gum
is officially listed as of a toxic nature.
“Davey Solong”: There is only one effi-
cient and humane dip-^—the walk-in, and it
can be made in any size. The face in the
small size should be at right angles to the
dip, with a nicely rounded turn just before
entering. There should be a gate at the
exit; about two or three feet up the steps
will do. I have used this pattern of dip
for years and never lost a sheep.
“Wescocky”: Mice don’t get much of my
seconds wheat. When stacking, I stand
bags erect in rows, about six inches apart,
the first of each row leaning against the
shed wall. The next row is laid flat across
the top of the bottom bags; the next is
again erect, with a further row lying flat
on top of them. With bags stacked thus
there is plenty of room for cats to get to
work.
“L’Fou”: A Vic. farm laborer has had
six weeks in hospital with septic inflamma-
tion of an eye; cause, a hit from a cow’s
tail. Most sheds have some device to hold
tails when milking, but often it is defective.
If the fixing (a simple hook of fencing wire
will do) is a foot or so above the level of
her back, the tail will stay put for want of
leverage; a slip-knot of cord could be left
for the occasional cow with a weak hair
tuft. But don’t keep Strawberry standing
with tail hitched up longer than necessary.
“Honi Pikau”: “Bullswool” (B. 30/7/’3O)
leaves the job of breaking-in heifers too late.
Training should commence with calves by
feeding them in bails; a man can rig up a
series in a day. The initial labor and. cost
of material are neglible; the benefits incal-
culable. ~ . .
“J.E.V.W.”: Rabbit destruction, is it?
Get an old three- or four-furrow stump-jump
plough that will take hard ground; put a
good set of shares on it, hook on to tractor
with three feet of powerful chain, and
plough-in the burrows six or eight inches,
putting tractor in low gear. Burrows
thoroughly ploughed and hollow logs burnt,
get to work with your dogs. Inspect burrows
about three weeks afterwards,. and if a few
have opened, tackle them again; the second
time will fix ’em.
“Jack Point”: In feeding poultry aim at
variety, both in the mashes and the green
stuff. In winter a little cod liver oil in the
mash will be appreciated; in spring and
summer skim or whole milk should be in-
cluded, if abundant, and a certain amount
of meat meal omitted. One of the finest
tonics is finely chopped onion. It may be
added to the mash occasionally, or ‘given
specially to birds which are a bit off color.
“Dai R.”: A flat piece of zinc about four,
inches long tacked on a similar length of
wood makes a handy knife-sharpener for the
vest pocket. Moisture is necessary, oil prefer-
ably. If your knife goes blunt and no stone
is available, wet a smooth piece of wood,
dust it well with sand, and apply the knife
in the same manner as you would on a
brick. A good edge will quickly result.
“Allawah”: Charring the bottoms of fenc-
ing posts has been recommended as a means
of preserving them. It used to be included
in Queensland railways specifications, but
has been cut out because of the expense.
Last year I repaired a 65-year-old fence by
contract, being allowed 20 per cent, for
rejection of posts. I took 15 per cent, and
that included many posts that would stand
another seven or eight years at least. The
posts were split lancewood, which is con-
sidered no good alongside narrow-leaf iron-
bark. They had not been charred nor
painted, so I think the process would be
money wasted.
“Disc Harrow”: When doing small graft-
ing jotys not worth the purchase of sealing-
wax, use cow-dung mixed with fine wood
ashes. The consistency should be that of
stiff dough. It can be moulded in a ball
round small stick grafts, and will hang there
bv itself for months.
‘ “Poker”: To obtain the best results from
tomatoes it is necessary to put in stakes
standing four or five feet out of the ground.
When the plant is large enough, tie the
leading shoot to the stake. All laterals
should be pinched out as they appear, and
when the plant has grown about three feet
high pinch off the top.
“Wrash”: A stone fence is worth while
when loose material is plentiful, and it
nrovides a capital windbreak shelter for
stock. But the old type. 4|ft. high and 24ft.
wide is not recommended: sheep learn to
run diagonally over it. and long periods of
wet weather are apt to play havoc with it.
Instead build the wall 24ft. high, and within
it at long intervals place wood or iron posts,
topping the construction with three wires
Bin. apart, held rigid with droppers.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
ie ri £bt of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Wanted, Sydney, pair of kookaburras, also pair of
seagulls, for large garden. Will not be kept in
captivity.—BslB.
Married couple, W.A., man general station-hand,
wife first-class cook and housekeeper with teaching
and nursing exp., want job on station, anywhere.
—8530.
Gippsland dairy-farmer with 250 acres good land
wants to borrow 30 cows or springers. Willing to
pay interest on value and percentage for calves, or
will buy on long terms. £5O deposit.—Bs9B.
Wanted novelist, Sydney, to write a tale of woe.
Fifty-fifty.—Bs67.
Whereabouts of James Knox, late of Tarana, N. S.
Wales. —8590.
To exchange periodically, newspapers and illustrated
publications from the U.S.A., with persons in Pacific
Islands.—Bs9l.
Bushworker, N.S.W., wants contract work any-
where, clearing land, brushcutting or fencing. Own
tools. —8565.
To buy unimproved or partly improved land, 10
to 100 acres, in district suitable for bee-farming.
—8526.
To buy two copies “Satyrs and Sunlight” by Hugh
MeCrae, new or second-hand.—B6os.
Grazier’s daughter, young, domesticated, wants
position as nursery governess, nursery companion or
lady help, anywhere in Queensland. Refs.—B62o.
Young man (Q’land) wants position as wool-
classer’s assistant. Refs. —8632.
To buy Vol. I (“The Story of Anzac”), “Official
History of Australia in the War.” —8613.
To buy Churchward’s “Arcana of Freemasonry.”
—8619.
Address of F. H. Clarke, recently returned from
East Africa. —8514.
To buy “An Anzac Muster,” “Old Convict Days”
(1809), “Literature in New South Wales.” —8515.
Whereabouts of Ted Cummings, last heard of at
Cunnamulla, Q. —8537.
Information Sought.
What icork is being performed at present
at the Small Arms Factory, Lithgow
(N.5.W.)?— 8408.
Manufacture of rifle components, machine-
guns, component parts for aircraft, portion
of the mechanical equipment for Western
Electric talking-picture machines, special
tools, engineers’ spanners and drop-forgings
of a great variety.
A radio transformer is said to have a
ratio of 5-1 or What is meant by
this term ? —8415.
The ratio of a step-up audio transformer is
given either in terms of voltage or turns.
Thus, a 5-1 ratio indicates that there are
five times more turns on the secondary than
on the primary winding. The voltage as
measured across the secondary winding termi-
nals will be slightly less than five times the
voltage which exists across the terminals of
the primary winding.
(1) Is the peewee peculiar to Australia?
(2) To what species does it belong? (3)
Is there any difference between the magpie-
lark and the peewee? (4) Has it any other
popular names? (5) How can the sexes be
distinguished ? —8416.
(1) Yes. (2) Its true position in classi-
fication is still uncertain. Some authorities
place it among the crows and others among
the wood shrikes. (3) No. (4) “Little
magpie,” “mudlark” and “Murray magpie.”
(5) The throat is black in the male and
white in the female.
(1) When are paspalum-seed pickers re-
quired in the Coraki district ( N.S.W. ) ? (2)
What wages do they earn? (3) How can
1 get employment? —B36B.
(1) January to May. (2) Most pickers
are on piecework, and usually 4d. or sd. per
pound is paid. (3) Pickers are engaged
locally. The local secretary of the Primary
Producers’ Union should be able to supply
information as to the possibilities of em-
ployment prior to the commencement of the
season.
(1) Name of a book on bacon-curing? (2)
How long would it take to learn the trade?
(3) Award rates and wages in Vic.? (4)
Any unemployment in the trade at present?
--8384.
(1) We know of no book dealing with
curing alone. You will probably be able to
obtain some literature on the subject from
the Yic. Agriculture Department. (2) Five
years. (3) Up to £5 7s. per week. (4)
Not a great deal.
Did Frank Gardiner, the bushranger, serve
the full sentence imposed by Chief Justice
Stephen? How did he end his days? —B4lB.
After serving 10 years of his three con-
secutive sentences, amounting to 32 years,
he was released on July 20, 1874. A condi-
tion was that he left N.S.W. This he did
the following week, going to China and later
to ’Frisco, where he kept a hotel for many
years.
Is it a fact that the public cannot legally
be stopped from entering a show or recrea-
tion ground through the fence without pay-
ment of admission money if the fence is a
wire one? —8412.
Nothing in law to warrant such a con-
clusion. Enclosed lands, private or public,
are defined as such as are enclosed or sur-
rounded with “any fence, wall or other erec-
tion” by which the boundaries may be recog-
nised.
(1) I put a coat of paint on a boarded
ceiling which was smoke-blackened and it
refused to dry. I wiped off the paint,
washed the ceiling with limewater, and still
it won’t, dry. What’s the remedy? (2) J
mixed red oxide ( powder ) in raw linseed, oil
and. gave outside walls a coat, and it dried
only in patches. I put a coat of other paint
on top. Will the oxide affect the outer paint,
which has dried? —8230.
(1) You should have washed the ceiling
before painting. Give one coat of terebine
and turps, in equal quantities, working up
the grime by thorough brushing. Allow to
dry, then apply two coats of paint. (2)
Red-oxide paints require the addition of a
drier, such as terebine. If the under coat
was not properly dry it is liable to work up.
(1) How to play the joker in a “No
trump” hand of five hundred? (2) Is the
joker highest or lowest card in a “misere”
hand? (3) Must the joker be played imme-
diately one cannot follow suit even if the
trick is your partner’s ?•• —8338.
(1) When led, the leader names the suit
he elects it to represent and other players
must follow that suit. (2) The joker is
the master card in all hands. (3) No.
When there are trumps, the joker is part of
the trump suit and must be played accord-
ingly.
(1) What disease has been attacking the
oactoblastus, the prickly-pear destroyer?
(2) Has anything been found to check the
disease ? —8369.
(1) Septicmmia, believed to be caused to
a great extent by overcrowding. (2) No,
but the disease has so far not developed to
such an extent as to markedly retard pear-
destruction.
(1) What was the origin of the legend of
the “Wandering Jew”? (2) Dates and places
where he is supposed to have been seen?
(3) Literary uses of the theme? —B344.
(1) The legend (date of origin uncertain)
is that when Jesus was being led to Calvary
a man named Oartophulus, a porter-, smote
him on the back and jeered, “On with thee!
Wherefore dost thou tarry?” Jesus turned,
looked at his assailant steadily, and said, “I
go; but thou shalt tarry till I come.” Carto-
phulus became a Christian, taking the name
of Joseph, but his doom was unaltered. He
lived on. Whenever he reached the age of
100, he was rejuvenated to the age of 30. He
wandered perpetually all over the world,
being allowed no abiding place. (2) In Eng-
land, at St. Albans, in the twelfth century;
at Hamburg, in 1547 ; at Brussels, in 1640;
at Paris, Leipzig, Moscow- and Madrid, in
the seventeenth' and eighteenth centuries;
twice at Strasburg, the visits being 200 years
apart; at Hull, in 1769 (affidavits of four
clergymen to support this) ; at London, in
1780; at Salt Lake City, in 1830. (3)
Eugene Sue made a novel of it —in which the
Jew dies! Dumas used the legend, and
O. Henry made it the basis of a short story,
Goethe toyed with the notion but discarded
it in favor of “Faust.” Earliest known
reference is in a thirteenth-century.! ballad.
(1) When and how to prune roses? (2)
The best cuttings to plant? (3) 'Treatment
after pruning ? —8434.
(1) Roses should be pruned before August
ends. Use sharp seccateurs so that the
limbs will not be . bruised and ugly tail-ends
left. First remove dead wood, then cut off
crossing limbs, and finally , trim the tree so
that the growth will be outward. When
new growth show r s rub off the eyes growing
inw-ard, which are likely to spoil the cylin-
drical shape of the tree. (2) Cuttings of
last-year’s wood are preferable. Placethem
in a slanting position in soil well incor-
porated with sand. (3) After pruning spray
the plants with Bordeaux mixture as per
manufacturer’s formula.
How to get rid of “Jalap” creeper? —
8319.
Surest way is to dig it out by the roots,
making sure that every bulb is removed from
the soil. If this is too tall an order, the
young plants "might be sprayed with a solu-
tion of sodium chlorate (11b. to a gallon
of water). It would probably be necessary
to make subsequent sprayings to kill new
growth.
What is the origin of the word “thug”?
—8417.
The Thugs were a confederation of pro-
fessional assassins who travelled through
India. They killed their victims by strangl-
ing and regarded their crimes as a l-eligious
duty. The fraternity was disbanded by the
British and has been extinct for many years.
I employ two maids, one at £1 per week
and one at 18s. per week. They don’t sleep
on the premises. The board allowance is
£1 per week each. What amount of N.S.W.
unemployed relief tax is payable in each
case? —8069.
If meals only are provided for employees
the value of board is assessed at 10s. per
week and tax paid thereon. In the circum-
stances, the maid earning £1 per week >s
liable to tax at 3d. per week. The maid
earning 18s. per week is not liable to tax,
as the wage paid, plus value of meals pro-
vided, is less than 30s.
(1) What is the depth of water beneath
the Sydney Harbor Bridge? (2) What is
the length of the span? (3) 'ls there any
bridge in the world having a longer span? —
8311.
(1) About 75ft. at the deepest part. (2)
1650 ft. from centre to centre of bearings.
(3) The Quebec Bridge, which is a canti-
lever structure, has a single span of 1800 ft.
What is meant by the military term
“enfilade” ? —8506.
It is a French word derived from “enfiler”
(to thread), and is used to describe a volley
from the flank along an enemy’s line or
parapet.
(1) Can sea sand be used in making con-
crete? (2) Can broken bricks be used for
the coarse aggregate? (3) What is the
objection to making concrete in frosty
weather? —8422.
(1) Yes, but the salt in it tends to retard
setting, and is apt to cause a white powder
effect on the surface of the concrete. This
can be washed off with a weak solution of
hydrochloric acid. (2) Yes, if-great strength
isn’t essential. Avoid bricks containing sul-
phur, unslaked lime or other qualities ren-
dering them unsuitable for concrete. All
plaster remaining on the bricks should be
removed and dust excluded. (3) Because
freezing causes expansion of the water within
the as yet soft concrete, preventing correct
bonding and often causing thin scales to
peel ■ off the surface. Sometimes it disrupts
the whole concrete mass.
(1) Is interest on Commonwealth bonds
free of State taxation if the bonds are held
by an absentee? (2) What tax would be
payable by an absentee on an income of
£l5O made up entirely of interest on Com-
monwealth bonds? —8226.
(1) Yes. (2) Federal income tax would
be payable, the amount varying according
to the rates for the year and the applica-
tion of the averaging provisions of the Act.
How long would a person have to reside in
Sydney before becoming eligible to enter the
State Sanatorium for Consumptives? —7B22.
Cases coming to N.S.W. from another
State are not admitted unless arrangements
have been made by the Government of the
State in which they reside to pay for their
maintenance.
(1) What is the entrance fee for a coun-
try member of the Melbourne Cricket Club?
(2) Annual subscription? (3) Privileges of
membership? (4) How many on waiting
list? (5) Approximate date of admittance
if application made now? —8522.
(1) £7 7s. (2) £2 2s. (3) Same as the
city—badge, two ladies’ tickets and admis-
sion to M.C.C., Albert Ground and Scots’
Grounds. (4) About 50. (5) Probably this
year.
(1) How is fish-glue made? (2) Pros-
pects as a commercial proposition in N.Q.?
(3) Retail price? (4) What is it mostly
used for? —8088.
(1) Fish offals are collected, thoroughly
washed with water and discharged into large
extractors or digesters with live steam.
After cooking or digestion, the liquid is run
off and allowed to stand. When cool, the
upper oily layer is removed, and the lower
gluey solution clarified with alum. The
liquid is then filtered, concentrated in open
vats and bleached with sulphur dioxide. The
residue of the offals left'in the extractors is
dried in steam-heated vessels, mixed with
potassium and magnesium salts, and put
on the market as fisli-potash fertiliser, thus
forming a side-line to the glue-making. (2)
Practically none. A capital of about not
less than £lOOO would be required for build-
ings and plant, and a regular and large
supply of fish or fish offals Avould be neces-
sary. Such an undertaking might possibly
be profitable as a side-line to a fish-curing
or -smoking business. (3) A good, dry, white
fish-glue costs Is. sd. per lb. in Sydney. (4)
Sticking ivories to piano keys and making
light, fancy goods. Only a limited demand
for it.
What is the Customs duty on tin oxide? —
8124.
In the form known as putty powder, used
for polishing glass, metal, etc., if imported
in bulk, free. The very fine variety, used in
pottery work, is classified as a chemical, and
is admitted free under British Preferential
and at 15 p.c. under General Tariff.
What is the, Aurora Australis? —BlBo.
It is a phenomenon caused by electrical
discharges in the upper atmosphere around
the South Magnetic Pole. There is undoubt-
edly some connection between sunspots and
aurorae, as at times of maximum sunspot
activity the aurora is more brilliant and
persistent. That the aurora is due to mag-
netic influence is borne out by the great dis-
turbance it causes in telegraphic instru-
ments, etc.
A speaker at a Diggers’ reunion stated
that the A.I.F. badge did not represent the
rising sun. Was he right? How did the
badge originate? —B437.
, He was right. The badge in its original
form, as designed for the regiment of: Light
Horse that was the first Federal contingent
to serve in the S’African War, repre-
sented a semicircular frieze, swords arid
bayonets surrounding an Imperial .crown.
In 1903 a Birmingham firm, asked to design
a badge for the whole of the. Commonwealth
forces, took this Light Horse , badge, as a
basis, and, not knowing its origin, deviated
from the original intention. This design
was at first worn only by staff officers, but
on the introduction of uriiversal training
came into general use, and was adopted in
1914 by General Bridges as the distinguish-
ing badge of the A.I.F.
(1) Is an annuity bequeathed by will sub-
ject to the N.S.W. employment relief tax?
(2) If I employ a drover at £2 per day do
I have to pay the tax on that? - (3) If I
sell stock, is the commission agent’s fee sub-
ject to the tax? (4) If I hire ■ a car have I
to pay tax on the hiring charge?- —8027.
(1) Yes, if the gross income exceeds £BO.
(2) Yes. (3) and (4) No. /
Can you give me a few. tips regarding
washing the new Ford caff— B423. -. i '
Always use cold or lukewarm-—never hot-
water. If a hose is used don’t turn the.
water on at full force, as this-drives the dirt
into the finish. After the surplus mud and
grime have been washed off, take a sponge'
and clean the body and - running, gear- with
a solution of water and linseed-oil soap.
Rinse off with cold water; then rub and
polish the body with a damp chamois skin.
A body polish of good quality may be used
to add lustre to the car. Grease on the
running gear may be removed with a rag
or sponge soaked in gasoline. The nickel
parts should he polished with a good nickel'
polish. Should the body ;or other: pyroxylin
finished parts of the car ■ become l sphtterhd :
with tar or other substance used :on. roads,
the- spots can be removed with ■ a solution
of two-thirds gasoline and one-third engine
oil. Dip a soft cloth into the mixture, .and
using one:.finger rub the sprit gently until it-
has been removed. Finish' off with a wash :
of clear water. . :
For what reasons did Colonel Holmes
administer corporal punishmnt to a number '■
of German settlers at Rabaul after the Aus-
tralians had taken possession of German
'New Guinea? —B4l9.
For. flogging W. 11. Cox, a British mis-
sionary and chairman of the British Method-
ist Mission for the Bismarck Archipelago,
at Namatanai in October, 1917.
Brief Answers.
Mrs. H. J.H.: .Fen-ile; fetwr-a-jong (u as
in “cut”) ; boo -kay.... J.T.: Cunjevoi, starfish, crabs,
etc., are good groper baits, used on a rising tide.
For sweep, use crayfish tail, squid or prawns. Cray-
fish tail should be cut off a few hours before using;
squid is better if hammered or “pulped” slightly
with a piece of wood or a knife-handle... .G.A.P.M.:
The Vice-Consul for Argentina says prospects for
that class of work are good. Write Aust. Mercantile,
Land and Finance Co., Sydney... .J. 8.: First Testy
Jackson and Duleepsinhji ; second, Jackson and Sand-
ham ; third, Hurwood and Hendren; fourth, Jackson
and Hendren.... H.D.: In N.S.W. the hearing of
charges against female first offenders must be in
private unless the‘defendant elects to be heard in
open court, and reports of such eases may not be
published. An amendment of the Crimes Act passed
in 1929 exempts cases of shoplifting from this law.
. ...J.0.P.: Interview C. U. B. Gurnett, Secretary,
Chartered Institute of Secretaries, 107 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney... .E.T.S.: You cannot buy tobacco-
leaf unless you are a registered dealer. To manu-
facture even the smallest quantity you must be
licensed and supervised by the Customs... .A.D.:
Write Controller, Insurance Department, Ministry of
Health, Whitehall, London... .G.W.M.1.: He was
born in England... .C.H.: Write Collector of Cus-
toms, Melbourne... .J.D.: Write Department of
Lands, Brisbane... .K.E.K.: Gourock Ropework
Export Co., Ltd., 379 Kent-street, and Frank and
Bryce, Ltd., Sussex-street —both Sydney—may be
able to help... .A.J.S.: Return steamer fare to
Norfolk Island,. £lB. You would have to allow
24 days for the holiday—-10 days for the boat journey
there and back and a fortnight on the island. Homely
accommodation can be secured from 355. per week.
.... 8.W.: The right rating of the hand is full on aces.
. ...E.M.F.: Draught (in a ship) is the distance
in feet from the lowest part of the bottom of a
vessel to the water-line. The load-water-line marks
the maximum loaded draught... ..I. M.C.: “Money,
Banking and Exchange,” by Mills and Benham,
and “International Finance,” by Hartley Withers....
A.F.S.: “Tobacco Leaf: Its Culture,” by Killebrew
and My rick (18s.), and “Tobacco from Grower to
Smoker,” by Tanner (35.) ... .8.H.: The phrase “Are
we downhearted? No!” came into vogue in England
towards the close of the general election of 1906,
and seems to have originated in a speech by Joseph
Chamberlain at Smethwick in that year... .K. 8.:
(1) H. B. Edwards’s “Wild Life Photography,”
price 25., can be recommended. (2) Try the “Aus-
tralian Museum Magazine,” “Sydney Mail” and
Melb. “Argus”... .J.A.8.: Write Australian Cement
Manufacturers’ Assoc., 14 Spring-street, Sydney, for
Pamphlet No. 2, “Fence Posts”... .N.E.: Suwarrow
Island is a M.L. dependency. It is a coral atoll
about 530 miles from Rarotonga, and about 500
miles east of Apia. At present it is leased as a
cocoanut plantation... .P.M.G.: Dunbur (a cross
between a local heavy type of tobacco, Dungowan,
and a bright American type named White Burley)
is the most widely-grown variety of tobacco in
N.S.W. Interview C. J. Tregenna, tobacco expert,
N.S.W. Agriculture Department, Sydney.... D.A,:
N.S.W. Health Department issues a pamphlet on the
subject. It may be possible to secure a supply for
distribution... .H.M.F.: (1) L. J. Finch and Co.,
94 Wentworth-a venue. (2) Williams, Ltd., 25
Wentwortb.-avenue. (3) Hazell and Moore, Ltd., 36
Campbell-street-—all Sydney.... R.A.K.: Suggest an
advt. in the “Times,” “Post Intelligencer” or
“Star,” of Seattle, or else write to the Commissioner
of Police at Seattle.. . .C.C.: The Order of the British
Empire was instituted on June 4, 1917 ; primarily
a recognition of the services rendered by civilians
in war... . J.R.K.: Write Colonial Secretary, Salis-
bury, Rhodesia... .D.F.: She is an Australian;
present . address: 81 Chester-square, London,
5.W.1... .W.D.: Apply Teachers’ Central Registry,
Margaret-street, Sydney... .R.C.: Members of rifle
clubs go through a specified annual course of
musketry, but undergo no drill. Two hundred
rounds of ammunition are issued free annually to
each efficient member. Further details from Vie.
Rifle Assoc., 248 Swanston-ritrefet; Melbourne... . J.E. :
If income exceeds £BO gross, a return should be
lodged to meet the provisions of the Unemployment
Relief Act. The return should be accompanied by
a note stating where the income was earned....
N.U.W.: Have the cylinders ground out and new
pistons and rings fitted, including a perfect circle
' ring', and have ; the valves ground in.... F. J.: No
known method. Better to use commercially-prepared
paint. - Rubber is not a suitable ingredient of paint.
.. . .D.J.M.L.: It is a matter of confidential depart-
mental procedure and cannot be' made- public....
KGi: The snow daisy is an Alpine plant and cannot
'be made-to grow in Sydney . .W.J.K.: It is an old
belief that it is dangerous to shelter under a tree
during- lightning, but there is no evidence that a
- lopped'tree is more dangerous than a* full foliaged
one. v! .W.VI: George Rignold ' was born at Bristol
(England)'in 1839. ' He made his last public appear-
ance at a benefit: performance for G. S. Titheradge.
He died December 16, 1912... .H.C.: While bound
from Melbourne to Burnie (Tas.) the Kooringa’s
cargo of petrol caught fire and in a few minutes
the whole vessel was ablaze. She was abandoned by
her crew when 26 miles from Cape Schanck, July
14, 1926. No lives were 105 t... .A.P.T.: Osmiridium
is used for hardening platinum, making watch-bear-
ings, and pointing drills for special work.... K.P.:
May be due to (a) insufficient petrol flowing to
carburetter owing to petrol pipe or filter being partly
clogged, (6) .gas .mixture too ..rich, or too poor, (e)
water in -petrol. .mE.F.:-No.\ Rule 18 stipulates
that “after the delivery of a service, no appeal shall
be made for anything’that, occurred before that service
\vas delivered”. .. • S.W.: Bouvardias require a little
■ protection from hot winds. In cold districts
they should; be ■’lifted arid kept under shelter in
pots .during' the t winter;, or they - may be cut down
and protected with hay or straw. They like a light,
well-drained, heavily, manured soil, ' and do well
planted between roses... .D.M-J.: According to “The
World’s Wool,” Russia is estimated to have
123,810,000 sheep and a total wool production of
222,000,0001 b. Though Russia competed with Aus-
tralia for priority as a wool producer before the
Great War, she did not rank very high amongst
wool exporting countries.. . .C. 8.: Creeping thistle
should be destroyed immediately it appears by
digging out' every part of the : root rind burning. If
established: it should be destroyed by- ploughing and
frequent cultivation. Roots and . plants should be
gathered and burnt. ...J.D.: It is unlikely that any
extreme danger will ■ suddenly : develop, but such
a condition is always dangerous and the sooner you
see a specialist the better.- In the meantime swab
out the ear gently with a weak solution of hydrogen
peroxide, every day! . Don’t leave cotton wool in,
because that dams back : the 'discharge G.L.:
Astronomical/ and geological evidence supports the
theory that the earth hris existed for a period of
between 1500 and 3000 million years E.V.T.:
(1) Royal Academy of Dramatic Art, 62-64 Gower-
street, London, W.C.I. (2) “The Stage” (weekly,
4d.), 16 York-street, W.C.2; “Era” (weekly, 3d.),
35 Wellington-street, Strand, W.C.2 —both London.
. ...C.G.: A leading question is a question which
suggests the answer desired (Many others mailed.)


FARM ACCOUNTS
VIHDlIinnilfltllininilllHIlHllllIlHII&inflllllllllMllllllfllllllHIIIilllllftinilitHHIlIiniiniHIIIHIlIliniflHinillllHIHIIHIIHinHIHHIHIIIHIIINIIIIIIIHIIIillHIinillUl
The articles published on “The Bulletin’s” Land page have been reprinted
and added to.
In these lessons the farmer who did not previously know a thing about book-
keeping is carried along, step by step, and shown how accounts are kept.
Every entry is explained in the simplest and clearest possible language.
The object is to enable the farmer to put his business on a proper basis and
keep it there.
In no other calling is it more necessary to follow every branch of the business
and see where a profit is being made and where a loss.
Many a farmer has come to grief simply through not knowing that he was
going back a little further every year. Had he known in time he might
have made changes that would have saved the situation.
The trouble about most attempts to show the farmer how to keep accounts
is that they assume he knows something about book-keeping.
“The Bulletin,” at the request of scores of farm readers, decided to produce
a cheap textbook in which the whole business of book-keeping would be
dealt with from the very beginning.
The little book is published at a price which brings it within the .means of everybody.
It will be sent from any “Bulletin” Office for sixpence, to which must be added 2d.
for postage.
Though designed primarily for the man on the land, it will be found just as valuable
to traders and others who have hitherto had only a foggy idea about accounts.
PRICE SIXPENCE.
SUNSHINE HARVESTING MACHINES
I
m
m
mm i
mm
. •
;
m
Hi
gs IE " I
■ m
m
■
■ i
mmi WMfflmM
. "■ ■ ■:■
\ ................. ........ ..’Hi
■ «
HI
■
■■ H
m
■ ■ ■ , ; :■■■:■ ■ ‘ :: V
asm
m
U
■
THE SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER
12ft. Cut. Self Propelled. (See top illustration.)
Will harvest 40 acres in a day. Petrol consumption half a gallon to
the acre. Two men only required, one to drive and one to tend the
bagging on the bagging platform. The Auto Header secures the
maximum yield of grain from every condition of crop, heavy or lrg t,
storm-flattened or weed-infested. It is Quick, Efficient and Eco-
nomical.
THE SUNSHINE HEADER HARVESTER
6ft., Bft. and 10ft. Cut. (See centre illustration.)
Sunshine Header Harvesters are renowned for their ability to pick
up and successfully harvest the worst down and tangled or thistle-
choked crops. They are equally effective in clean standing crops,
whether heavy or light, on hillside or level ground. <
For work on very sandy or hilly country, or for rice-harvesting, the
machine can be supplied with a 4-cylinder petrol engine incorporated
to drive the mechanism. A small team suffices for haulage.
The Sunshine Header Harvester also harvests field peas, and tor
this purpose a special pea-reaping front is attached to the 6ft. or Btt.
machine. In consequence, peas can be profitably grown as a rotation
crop.
THE SUNSHINE STRIPPER HARVESTER
Type A.L. Bft. and 10ft. cut. (See bottom illustration.)
The light-draught harvester. Five horses pull it in normal crop, six
horses in heavy conditions. Side draught is reduced to a minimum.
Successfully harvests light and heavy crops.
ALSO THE SUNSHINE REAPER AND BINDER
Sweet running, sure tying, neat sheafing, long lasting, 6ft. and Bft. sizes.
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE.
BRANCHES: 664 West, SS-STbSZ
Illustrated Descrmtive Catalogues, Prices and Terms, posted free on request.


df
“Room only” Rates
Single Room from 12/- per day
Double Room from 22/6 per day
Single Room with Private Bath and
Toilet from 21/- per day
Double Room with Private Bath
and Toilet from 30/- per day
Suites with Private Bath and Toilet from 40/- per day
Breakfast
2/- and 3/6. And a la carte.
Bight Luncheon
in the Winter Garden, 2/6.
Luncheon and Dinner
a la carte in Grill Room, mini-
mum 4/-; a la carte in Dining
Hall, minimum 5/-.
The /Australia
Hotel
Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.’
SYDNEY i
w
m
mm
SMOKE-OH!
“Richardson added 28 in 25 minutes, .'.'.he hit a
six and six fours.” —London “N ews-Chronicle.”
They call this “Australian arithmetic” in
London—Australian Treasurers’ arithmetic.
* *
“As Burns said ‘The best-laid schemes of mice
and men gang aft algy.’ ” — “News.”
Meaning, of course, that they didn’t often
gang Clarence.
# ¥
“How best can a man proclaim his affection for
a girl?” —Dorothy Dix in “Sun.”
What about: “Know all men by these
presents”? *
*
THE INFORMATION SEEKER.
“The sex question bulks too largely in the talkies.”
—Oreswell O’Reilly.
Noticing the above I ventured to request
one of the wife’s friends (a young lady of
considerable personal charm) to ask me one.
“Ask you one what?” she countered suspi-
ciously. _“A sex question,” I. replied. “I’ll
do nothing of the kind,” she said severely.
“Furthermore,” she bewildered me by saying,
“Honi soit qui mal y pense, and if I hear any
more from you on the subject I’ll tell your
poor wife.”
Still eager for information I sought out
a seafaring man, and asked whether the sex-
tant had anything to do with the question.
His reply was uncomplimentary to myself
and unfit for publication. A sexton of my
acquaintance repudiated all connection with
the question, so I sought out a sexagenarian
described by the society press as “lovelier
than Cleopatra.” She shook her beautiful
golden curls bashfully and said: “I really
don’t know. Most of my divorces have been
secured by the Restitution Order route.”
So there you are, and I’m as much in the
dark as ever.
Adolphus Dumbrain.
THE ETERNAL FRY ANGLE.
“On the first day that the new postal rates
applied, postal officials were satisfied with the
behavior oof the public.” —Melbourne “Herald.”
Oof is the one thing that can always be
relied on to satisfy postal officials.
* *
“Since that adventure Martin keeps' his door
locked and looks with 'suspicion upon anyone who
enters the room.” — “Sun.”
Quite right, too ! People who enter rooms
by locked doors can’t complain if they are
classed with burglars and politicians.
PUBLIC SPIRIT.
“Rents cannot remain at their level of 12 months
ago in the general process of price deflation now
operating.”
‘‘A serious contraction in people’s incomes, and
consequently in their ability to pay the old prices,
is bringing down general commodity prices with a
swing.”
“Rents, because of the arbitrary and artificial
way in which they are fixed, remain unaltered. This
state of affairs must end.” — “Guardian.”
“I’ve decided to take your advice,” said
the landlord.
“Splendid!” cried the newspaper pro-
prietor. “I always knew you
were sound at heart.”
“We Captains of Commerce,
Culture and Finance,” agreed the
landlord, “must get solidly into
line; act as one man. It’s the
only thing that’s going to save
society from disintegration, and
the Empire from ruin.”
“My papers have been saying
so for years.”
“You have made at least one
convert,” said the landlord, and
grasped the newspaper pro-
prietor’s honest hand. “Rents,
as you remark, cannot remain
unaltered. Like newspapers they
are arbitrarily fixed. I propose
to follow your patriotic example.
As from next Monday all my
rents are going up 50 per
cent.” .
J.D.
* *
“IT’S A GREAT LIFE,”
All Talking and Singing-.
And it might be an even greater one with
an occasional spot of work.
“How few who feast on I’eehe Melba in the cafes
of Sydhey know, that it is the invention of a French-
man, M. Escoffier, ‘the chef with the artist’s soil.’ ”
— “News.”
Yes, the ignorant herd simply think of
the man as the inventor of mud-pies.
* jp’T
“Money is tight,” the expert said.
“No more for loans must you inquire.”
Australia bowed her worried head,
And moaned, “Sir Otto Jeremiah!”
“FIRST WITH THE NEWS.”
The “Sunday Gridiron” Looks Ahead,
The recent happy event in the Royal
family found the “Sunday Gridiron” relatively
unprepared. Our staff did the occasion less
MRS. McHASHUS: “Understand—I want
what you owe me to-day, or out you
go!”
McFITZHAMLET: “Heaven bless you,
Madam, for the alternative! My last
landlady wanted both.”
than justice. Readers may rest assured, how-
evei*, that the advent of the next Little
Stranger will be signalised in a fitting manner.
Arrangements have been finalised for a
Special Obstetric Number. Consistent with
the Censorship Regulations, no phase will
be missed.
Exclusive feature stories will include
“The Odds Against Twins,” by the Sport-
ing Editor.
“Pneumatic v. Solid-tyred Prams,” by our
Motor Expert.
“Will Baby Clothes Be Longer?” by the
Fashion Editress.
“How a Royal Bedroom Is Furnished,”
by an ex-lady.
“Keyholes that Have Baffled Me,” by a
cashiered A.D.C. to H.M. the King.
“Can the Duke Afford It?” by our Finan-
cial Editor.
“Probable Effect of the Event
on the Future of the Australian
Party,” by W. M. Hughes.
“Royal Babies Who Have
Been Strangled,” by the Police
Roundsman.
A magnificent pictorial sec-
tion will comprise a unique
woodcut of Henry VIII. walk-
ing round and round Windsor
Castle on the. occasion of the
birth of Queen Elizabeth; typi-
cal Highland scenery which the
doctors will traverse on their
way to the expectant mother;
type of Scotch ghillie who will
get drunk in honor of the event;
Sydney Society beauty who is
lovelier now than when she
visited Glamis. as a Cook’s tour-
ist in 1890; Duke of Gorgon-
zola as he looked after learning
that his consort had presented
him with the third set of trip-
lets on Friday, April 13, 1913.
Appropriate Larry the Louse cartoon for
“Young Gridironers,” and all. usual sex
features. A splendid issue culminating with
the first instalment of Edgar Wallace’s Scot-
land Yard mystery serial, “Who Murdered
the Midwife?”
Angus O’Cohen.
* *
“The prisoner had used the pages of the novel to
start the fire, which eventually gave him his • free-
dom.” — “Guardian.”
It was a war-novel, needless to say. No
others are hot enough.
# *
“Aid. MeElhone shows fight.”— “News.”
And when That happens the cry of the
other aldermen is: “Leave MeElhone.”
NO MORAL SENSE.
Pjones is really too annoying for words-
We had been discussing the talkies, and I
had given him my considered opinion of
“Incandescent Passions.” The papers had
drawn the attention of the police to it, and
I had explained to Pjones that it was dis-
gusting, filthy and obscene. Yet, when the
wife and I made our third visit a few nights
later, we found the blighter in the next
seat.
* ¥
The lady in the flat below
Sings in the church where her father
preaches,
And that is why I never go —
I’ve heard her practise what she screeches.
* *
WHY I WOULD DECLINE SIR PHILIP
GAME’S JOB.
The Scouts’ Corroboree and Camp Fire
Sing-song (attended in costume).
The Glubb Quintette (Yon Ileinse’s
“Humoresque on One Note”) at Five Dock
School of Arts.
J. T. Lang.
The performance of “Macbeth” by Ash-
field Thespians in aid of distressed Auburn
needlewomen.
The Glubb Quintette (Oodlelunger’s op.
No. 11 in F arranged for five pieces by
Von Ileinse) at Mascot Mechanics’ Institute.
The Girl Guides’ (Ilornsby-Turramurra
Branch) Rally. (Attended on wet day with
cold in head.)
T. R. Bavin.
The official opening and inspection of
Velasquez Dudde’s water-color exhibition
(with speech).
The Empire Men.
The K.B.E.’s
The M’s.L.C.
Ar No.
V V
She dashed into the shop, every movement
betraying frantic haste. The salesman sprang
to attention as she rapped out: “I want a
tie, and I ’ave no time to waste.” Thirty-
five minutes later she dashed out of the
shop, every movement betraying frantic
haste, without a tie, and leaving the sales-
man hidden behind a mighty stack of boxes
on the counter.
* *
Tie groaned, “I’ve debts I cannot pay.
Taxation’s reprehensible.”
He bolted to the U.S.A.,
And now is far more cents-ible.
# *
“Turk aged 156, has been in six wars, and has
been married 12 times.”
Making a total of IS wars.
« «
“Christianity is spreading fast amongst the natives
of South Africa.” —Visiting missionary.
So much so that they now have grace
before their mealies.
FROZEN.
HE “I dreamt of you last night."
SHE ( coldly): “Really!"
HE: “Yes; then I woke up, shut the
window, and put an extra blanket on
the bed.”
INSIDE DOPE.
® an^ru Pf s aid that even if he did bet, it was
always on the best of information.”
Personal knowledge I have none,
Put my aunt’s grocer’s sister’s son
Heard a dustman in the street
(tying: “Old Garbage can’t be beat
•J the cove on top lets go his head,
And he doesn’t run off or fall down dead,
And the stable decides to let him try.”
Do you wonder my hopes are running high
And I look as if I owned the earth?
I’ve backed Old Garbage for all I’m worth.
A. V. W.
COMPENSATION.
Her roasts can’t be eaten, her scones are like
lead,
Whatever she grills turns to leather;
She doesn’t pretend to know how to bake
bread,
And shd often gets under the weather.
And yet we all love her, it must be confessed,
And say her dud cooking is good;
She’s the only dam’ woman we’ve had in the
West
Who hasn’t complained of the wood.
O. W. W.


ISII
1
f;
fli
■
■
f V ¥
■ ■ %
m 1
11
I ■» if
V il
II
K -■
11
1 m
1
M
mm
SsHL
1
||
,
■
IP-
i
mm
|
■» !■
a
■i
lilli
a I '«§i
i-i
i
W\
dfg
? 600
(FULLY FASHIONED)
A SERVICE SHEER
STOCKING
Realising for some time
the need of a finer texture
stocking and yet one
which would uphold the
Prestige tradition of serv-
ice and quality, we have
produced No.6ooService
Sheer. We are confident
that our latest truly
beautiful creation offers
an irresistible appeal.
We offer you in No. 600
all the latest Parisian
Shades .
Beautiful fine
texture —yet
serviceable.
lilflili
mm
An extremely serviceable
deep silk welt takes all
the suspender strain.
1
The foot as indicated
is most serviceably and
scientifically reinforced.
This hosiery must be
seen to be appreciated.
ilrejstme
V|J LIMITED
WHOLLY AUSTRALIAN
P I D


p $LkJ*
'II///M y/ < - ■ /% - - "
* :
ssa
«ft:,
e> P
'-V:\7.v ' - =£ -»^/
O *. <a
- o
@A
'fit,
_3
S° Si
/X
'/y
% \
y. .
* / ■
C* - % - » *.'■!'* //. ' ' vy \',.
•'■ ''l‘ / 1,
■ ~ *l\
2?
7ifti!f I
a.
//mv'fM
(<
<B
.'W*
A 3
r AU3M3W*--;
aiiwirjg
=ab a auras
£T
*?*
dXi
mm
i ii
in
ffSl!!
.1 ii* l ■!' i !'
SB
f/i Iji ),l ili'.iiii...
■ *\ i »j
M
Will
,'i-r f i"''!,!, HI wAmM
'lii hJlml
w»
!:.;•!"!»'■: ;<|ii j;i
\ nwr:,.. •. , h
HIM l.i|l I !!. II I I"
llliri'ittl.EVeiiii ,;r
I##4SUUi!.^
if ii nf M 'j | ii *. w 11
Jlf lit.l I l II » fi.' [■(
iiiiiiii ii i Si ii *i ij' ;,
Mi
ji»*:
,«»
i •■'' , < i j i i > ■ >l '.'!’ L 1
»•{, »»j 'if'
ii r s';;
ill!!
-tiO
u> ,! '
v,M
if i riii, l .
l.MlilV
83N1
l^llllll
Vvi
l;h
■I
m
m
m
i . 1
m
n ii
■ . i
i-i
nm
m
mm
iZ>4


THE GOSSARD LINE of REALTY
■Bnm
Jr
I
■
■■. ■■ I ■
¥
wmmm
■
: M 1 M :
m
mam
MM*! $
■ku.
1
» .
ij
a
■ i
*
. ■:■■
I
iiliiiil
Model 708 shown above is a front-lacing Gossard of
unusual ability. Lightly boned, it extends above the
waistline and shows adequate length over the thighs.
Mi
Into a Gossard
and Your Figure Worries
Are Over...lnstantly!
A Gossard foundation smooths away instantly those
extra pounds of avoirdupois! Instantly your figure
is re-proportioned into lines of slenderized grace!
No corsets fit quite like Gossards. No corsets have
quite the demand that Gossards have. And no corset
will do quite as well —or quite so easily what a
Gossard will do for your figure. Ask to see the new
Solitaires, step-ins, front-lacing corsets, girdles,
combinations and brgssieres. They come in various
price ranges to meet every purse.
THE CANADIAN H. W. GOSSARD CO., Limited
114-120 Castlereagh Street •• Sydney, N. S. W.
MADE WITHIN THE EMPIRE
K-AUST-IOD
Poverty
Point
“Three Aces”: It was my job once to
introduce Pavlova to 23 newspaper folk one
after the other. When they said good-bye
she mentioned each man by mime. The
women’s names she jibbed at, but tact saved
the day. She called them all “Dear/’
“Macann”: Latest intelligence of an old
Tivoli • friend came when I paid a visit to
Tooth’s brewery. The secretary of the
brewery Social Club was urging the head
serang to go to their concert that night.
“We’d be very glad if you’d come,” he said,
“especially as we have a good tenor singing
to-night.” “Hm,” the boss said, “a good
tenor! Where on earth did you dig him
up?” “You might have heard of him,” the
.sec. said; “he used to be on the Tivoli, and
lie’s been in some musical comedies at Her
Majesty’s.” “Well, what’s he doing here?”
the boss asked. “Well,” explained the sec.,
“he says he came here to get off the booze.”
“Frinigga” : Vera Pearce, billed as “Eng-
lish comedienne,” has struck New York in
“Artists and Models,” a Schubert show which
is a plucky attempt to outdo Paris. One
critic remarked that the cast wore less cloth-
ing than he had hitherto supposed the U.S.
laws would allow. Even Cleopatra discards
the slight “two teacups” harness with which
she has always been associated. “The
sketches and gags made several hard-boiled
first-nighters do quite a little gasping,” said
another. “Much of this dirty work was
entrusted, to the buxom Miss Pearce, whose
skirt was slashed to her belt to display a
leg more shapely than her sizable waistline
would indicate.”
“Leonore”: Mention of Australia House
cinema (B. 6/8/’3O). I frequently dropped
into that show during November and Decem-
ber of last year. The audience appeared to
me to consist of Australians, errand or office
boys and derelicts seeking shelter and
warmth. It was not uncommon to see an
attendant snooping up and down the rows
of seats during a screening and rooting out
the unfortunates whom the warm atmosphere
had lulled into slumber. One out-of-work girl
told me she thanked God for the cinema—
it was somewhere to relax without payment
between dreary rounds of the employment
agencies. She knew the programme by
heart, the “Golden Shower of Wheat” (repre-
senting N.S.W.), “Dairy-farming” (Queens-
land), “Timber-getting” (Perth), “Mallee
Scrub” (Victoria). But she kept her eyes
on the screen for fear that she too might
doze, and be hustled out, and refused
readmittance.
“Lord Luvus”: Having lost the distin-
guished services of the eminent Jan Rubini,
Melbourne Capitol engaged Gladys Moncrieff
to sing opposite the shadow of John McCor-
mack for the season of “Song o’ My Heart.”
To give the occasion point, a reception was
arranged for the lady, who was to arrive
by the Sydney express. The ceremony was a
magnificent success, one paper describing the
scene as “surprising.” The most surprised
people present, however, were the Sydney pas-
sengers when they learnt that they had had
such a distinguished fellow-traveller. As a
matter of fact, Gladys has been living in
Melbourne for some weeks past; but a little
difficulty like that is easily overcome.
“C. 8.”: When a famous Russian novelist
visited New York with a lady who was not
his wife the hotel proprietors made a fine
moral gesture and refused the pair admit-
tance. Did Melbourne Uni. Con. find in
this some sort of precedent when it came to
welcoming Austral on her return recently?
Was it , on the grounds that she had married
a divorcee that it was decided that the insti-
tution could not officially entertain her and
Amadio? Anyway, the Con. did wot receive
her—-that was left to past students of this
great Australian seat of learning.
“C.”: The vaudeville renaissance started by
Hugh I). Mclntosh at Melbourne Tivoli is
to open a branch office in Sydney. The
present co., including Mo and Frith, will
begin at the St. James on September 15.
In the meantime Hugh D. has formed an
alliance with Union Theatres, and will ex-
pand his operations to the Palace and
Princess in Melbourne. These two houses
have lately been leading a hand-to-mouth
existence as talkie theatres. Mclntosh
threatens to produce every sort of show,
from Noel Coward drama to grand opera.
Rumors of the new offensive have apparently
reached Exhibition-street, as Frank Tait is
heard announcing that the old and almost
disestablished Firm is taking a new lease
of life and is negotiating for two famous
international stars to bring a co. to Aus-
tralia. Their names will be divulged later.
Another sign of a more or less violent swing
• of the pendulum is that Bret Randall, an
English comedian who scored here some
years ago with “Rookery Nook,” is organ-
ising a new co., for which the Fuller bros.
are expressing sympathy if not accepting
responsibility. Another favorable omen is
that Mr. Randall will have the “co-operation
of the unions.”
“Prog”: The Community Theatre, Syd-
ney, where the fine Australian-written war
play lately reviewed in The Bulletin has
been running, continues its good work of
encouraging the local playwright. Its next
venture is a season with a bill made up of
four one-acters, all by Australians —Furnley
Maurice’s “The Disturber of the Pool,” Louis
Esson’s “Dead Timber,” William Moore’s
“Moonlight,” and Vance Palmer’s dramatisa-
tion of Henry Lawson’s “Telling Mrs.
Baker.” After that there will be a season
of a like bill holding four Australian women
writer’s names.
“Kelby”: Frank Hutchens’s new Quintet
for piano and strings marks a definitely
important Stage in the development of Aus-
tralian composition. Without being a work
of genius the Quintet is stirring and attrac-
tive and leans more to the new school than
the old. There is a refreshing vigor and
absence of conventionality about the whole
affair, and some of the written effects “come
off” in actual practice rather well.
The late Marion Terry, described in the
cables as “the last of the family,” is not
even the last of the name. A niece and
nephew (grand-children of Fred) are still
acting in the English provinces. Marion,
who shone in society roles, was handsomer
than the genius of the family, Ellen, but she
lacked her sister’s humor and magnetism.
The family, which has been providing the
stage with actors, actresses, managers and
scene-painters for over a century, derives
from Benjamin Terry, an early-Victorian
barnstormer, who in his time played every
kind of part from panto, to Shakspearean
tragedy.
“C.R.” : Musical families? There are few-
concert or theatre bills in Melbourne in
which the name of Bradley does not appear.
Of the five brothers, Charles sings the
Philharmonic and plays the bass; Kevin
plays the piano, viola and violin and sings ;
Reginald plays piano, violin and ’cello and
is a member of the Sisserman quartette;
Norman plays the ’cello, bass and six saxo-
phones, and Leo plays piano, violin, banjo,
six saxophones and drums. With the aid
of sister Eileen, who sings and plays the.
piano, they can provide any sort of pro-
gramme from the top to the bottom of
musical literature.
The Palette
“Tristram R.”: George Lambert made a
pencil sketch of me in his studio at the
Prince of Wales Hospital, Rand wick. I
asked him if I might have it, and he parted
up obligingly. I thanked him profusely, arid
suggested that he sign it. Lambert struck
an attitude and said dramatically, “Sailor,
you are asking me to give you 20 guineas!”
I retired hastily—with the picture.
Harold Herbert’s latest display of pleasant-
ness at the Fine Arts, Melbourne, has attrac-
ted more red dots than any other show for a
long time. Herbert still nourishes his old
vice of not being able to get a unified impres-
sion of his subject, possibly because he gener-
ally selects one too vast to be grasped in. its
entirety by any eye except that of a genius.
In the matter of blue hills and middle-dis-
tances he is at his truest, while his fore-
grounds are apt to be cluttered up with
unassimilated details. Brightness of color
takes the place of brightness of light in many
of his pictures, but at hiS highest Herbert
produces work of manifest sincerity and
considerable interest; and at his lowest 1
decorations admirably suited for the modern
drawing-room.
A show of eight painters at Melbourne
Athenaeum is mainly a display of plodding,
though even industry seems to be lacking in
some of the exhibits. Rupert Bunny has
various mildly futuristic landscapes, which,
though freakish, have the merit of not unload-
ing more sugar on a market already over-
provided with' that commodity. Charles
Wheeler is alternately decorative and realis-
tic, and not wholly satisfying in either mood.
In one picture he has three ghosts evidently
intended to be living creatures. H. B. Har-
rison has neatly fielded a ray of sunshine
in “Over the Hills and Far Away,” and
Cumbrae Stewart has a nicely-handled back,
the rest of her nudes being as usual.
The Inky Way
“Smilax”: Any who complain that our
school curriculum does not include anything
to foster the love of jouffialism ought to
look at the Bananaland system. All the
upper grades either keep a “class book” to
which members contribute short stories or
articles, or else the class as a whole writes
a novel to which members furnish sugges-
tions for plot and detail.
The Victorian “Railways Magazine” is
to go. It had a circulation amongst rail-
waymen and the public of 28,000. The
public paid sixpence for it and the staff
nothing. The Labor Ministry made a pre-
vious attempt to abolish it, the Trades Hall
objecting to it as “master-class literature”
designed to make the railwayman work more
intelligently and take an interest in his job.
The need for economy has given the sheet
its death blow.
Westralia loses its foremost cartoonist and
one of the best black-and-white artists it
ever had by the death of Ben Strange, whose
work for 30 years past was the most arrest-
ing feature of the “Western Mail,” the illus-
trated Weekly issued from the “West Austra-
lian” office. Besides considerable skill in
drafightmanship he had a clever imagination
and a rich gift of humor. A kindly soul,
easy good nature personified, he had a host
of friends. H'e was on the goldfields in the
early days, and left to take a hand in the
Boer War, settling in Perth on his return.
Through the retirement of A. B. Shand,
K.C., The Bulletin again loses its senior
counsel. Still it hasn’t had to make many
changes. In its earlier days the brilliant
Julian Salomons saw, it through two very
strenuous battles —one the Clontarf case,
the other the great Atacama suit. On Salo-
mons’s retirement George Reid accepted. The
Bulletin’s retainer, and defended the action
which Billie Barlow was badly advised to
take. Fifteen years ago, when George Reid
left the Bar, the retainer was passed to
Shand, and he has not been overworked. His
only appearance in court for years past
was over a medical contribution to the
“Woman’s Mirror”; and in that he had with
him Dr. Evatt, not then a K.C.
R. W. Robson’s name is familiar to every-
one in the Western Pacific, and even far
beyond. With a “Pacific Islands Year
Book” in the press which is to rival even
the famous “Findlay,” he has concluded that
the time is ripe for a “Pacific Islands
Monthly.” The journal is to be a combina-
tion of newspaper and review, and in its first
number gives promise of a long and healthy
life. The photographic work on glazed
paper is first-class, and the production alto-
gether is a credit to its promoter and to its
printers and publishers, Pacific Publications,
Sydney.


Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS 011 Australia, New
10 lO Zealand, Fiji, Samoa.
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS , interest .
, , , w fixed periods
ana transacts all other usual Banking business.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anil Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain anti Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/-per day,, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed .think of
w
( SCHUTE,
BELL & CLtd
If you havo
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Southern Business Men
Should Concentrate on
QUEENSLAND!
The Queen State has less unem-
ployment than. any other State in
Australia, and it is confidently anti-
cipated that she will be the first one
to regain prosperity.
The spirit of optimism is amongst
her farmers, growers, and land
owners.
You cannot afford to ignore this
market, and the most profitable way
to sell goods in Queensland is to ad-
vertise them in Queensland’s Oldest,
Biggest, and Finest Newspaper—
Qthe Brisbane (Hourier
the Paper with the Largest Circulation.
Published by :
THE BRISBANE NEWSPAPER CO., LTD
Queen-street, Brisbane. ’Phone 82991.
Sydney Representative : Robert D. Fishei
74 Pitt-street. ’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative. L. S. Marks,
The Argus Building, Elizabeth and Latrobe
streets. Phone P 3906.
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
l
ffi
ir Hi
i
H L
jilli!
lUS-AV CAN AIDA' lEIUIROIPIE
Travel round the Sunny South Seas and
enjoy, not some, but every possibility of your
overseas trip. U.S.A., Canada, or Europe
may be either reached, or happily rounded off,
by a tour through the South Sea Islands, and
splendid accommodation on Royal Mail Liners
obtained with the expert assistance of Union
Company Officials.
Offices: Sydney—Melbourne.
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN
AND UNION ROYAL NAIL UNIS
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co., Agents, Brisbane—Perth.
burns philp tours
3 u
«< <
9
|CAvj
VISIT JAVA
THE GARDEN OF THE EAST
Smooth Water Voyage
which is a Holiday in Itself.
Regular monthly sailings by the
popular vessels S.S. “MARELLA,”
7500 tons; M.V. “MALABAR,”
5000 tons.
Return Fare from Sydney, £Bl
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide.
Travel in Picture, Verse and Story.
Read the “B.P. Magazine,” 1/- a copy.
All Newsagents and Booksellers.
BURNS,PHILP & C?,LTP
7 BRIDGE. ST, SYDNEY,AUSTRALIA
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
£Bk
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150.000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St. t Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
588 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji Papua*
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.’
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated"
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
PROVED !
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in THE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Nestor .. . 15,000 tons, Sept. 15
fCeramic . . 18,500 „ Oct. 18
*Ascanius .. 11,000 „ Nov. 25
IThemistocles 11,500 „ Dec. 3.
‘First class only.
tCabin class. JFirst and third class.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
Agents
SPLENDID CHEAP SERVICE
Via Suez Canal.
FAST OIL BURNERS
Fares to London from £3B.
To Colombo from £22.
Special Excursion Return Tickets to
Colombo issued from Sept, to Feb., £32-
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
SPACIOUS DECKS—DECK CABINS—EXCELLENT
MENU—CINEMA—DANCE MUSIC REPRODUCED
WITH ELECTRIC AMPLIFIERS—
CANVAS SWIMMING BATH
Freight Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Joint Passenger Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Tel.: 86701. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.,
Tel.: 87512. 247 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart ParkerL^
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and 'vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Surest. Sydney,
X
Pimples are Disfiguring
Why Tolerate Them
when Cuticura
quickly soothes and heals
GENTLY anoint with Cuticura Oint-
ment, then wash off in a few minutes
with Cuticura Soap and warm water.
For all skin troubles there is nothing
better.
Ointment Is. and 2s. Soap Is. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CEUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISEAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAD ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNED CDUB
N.Z. GODF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. PODO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to—
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD„
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any at the World's Deading
Advertising Agencies.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Wanted—a Real Steel Industry.
Lawrence Ennis, the Englishman who has
been in charge of the job of fabricating
and erecting Sydney’s harbor bridge, says
that if Australia could reduce the price of
producing steel locally or reduce the duty
on imported steel, and if the unions would
permit piecework, we might be able to find
a profitable export market in “the East
for fabricated steel of the class that is being
used in the bridge. The idea is worth think-
ing about, even though it is buttressed with
“ifs” Judged by the experience of the
bridge-builders, Australian workmen find
constructional steelwork very congenial, and
Dorman, Long and Co. in’the carrying out
of their bridge contract have trained a
small army of experts in every phase of the
building industry into which steel enters.
When the bridge is finished, as it will be in
a few months, most of these men will find
their occupation gone, and the magnificently
equipped workshops at Milson’s Point will
have to be dismantled. The machinery,
probably, will go back to the place it came
from. .
To avoid that, as Mr. Ennis says, it will
be necessary to make a bid for foreign con-
tracts. The principal obstacle in the way
is the high cost of operating Australian
rolling-mills. Products of such mills im-
ported into Australia last year —Dorman,
Long and Co. imported all their plate steel,
angle-irons, rods, etc. —totalled 240,000 tons,
valued at 3f millions, on which duty was
assessed at an average rate of about 10 per
cent. Assuming freight averaged another 10
per cent., the Australian rolling-mills were
protected to the extent of 20 per cent., and
in respect to galvanised-iron there was a
bounty of 725. a ton—roughly another 3i
per cent. From all of which it can be safely
concluded that costs in the United King-
dom must be considerably more than 20
per cent, lower than they are in Australia.
Further proof of that is the recent letting
of a contract for a large floating dock for
Wellington (M.L.) to a Tyneside firm. The
dock, when completed, will have to be
towed to its destination, 12,000 miles, _ at
very heavy expense. Yet the English firm
was able to undercut a N. S. Wales tend-
erer. .
If, as Mr. Ennis suggests, the introduc-
tion of the piecework system will alter the
outlook of the Australian steel industry, it
ought to be considered by the Governments
and the unions concerned. This country’s
pressing need for the last 20 years has been
new avenues of export and new means of
reducing imports; and recent events have
brought home the truth that this was neces-
sary not only to maintain standards of
comfort but to put even existence on a
safe basis. Had that been realised earlier
the great Singapore dock, the Wellington
dock and a score of important structural
steel contracts for places within 3000 miles
of Australia might have been executed in
this country.
There is no lack of skill, nor, when union
bosses leave them alone, any lack of energy
on the part of Australian steelworkers. They
made the world’s record big castings for the
Sydney Harbor Bridge, fabricated the big-
gest girders ever put into an}' steel struc-
ture, and beat all records for tonnage
erected in a day.
Australia’s Debt Figures.
The latest Federal quarterly contains the
news that Australia’s debt at June 30
(£1,100,597,198) was about millions less
than it was a year earlier. That would be
consoling if it wasn’t make-believe. ihe
permanent debt, fixed for a comfortable term
so that Treasurers can get an occasional
hour’s sleep without listening for the wolf
on the verandah, has diminished because it
is long since anyone would negotiate a per-
manent sort of loan. But the country owes
£18,000,000 to the Commonwealth Bank in
London, due at any moment; £8,000,000 to
some other bank (not specified) in London,
payable this month; and £10,000,000 of tem-
porary accommodation or bill-of-sale over the
furniture in London, payable half this month
and half in December. In addition some
£3,000,000 are owing on overdrafts to banks
here. That makes £39,000,000 of debt whicn
doesn’t appear as debt but is much worse
than the liability which does appear, because
the creditors may want the money very sud-
denly to keep themselves out of trouble. _
There is only one remedy and it is a
gradual one. The bill for imported goods
must be reduced till Australia can do with-
out new loans and overdrafts abroad, and
pay off some of the old ones. In the process
there will be more reproductive work for
our own people instead of sandshifting (per-
haps 52 reproductive hours per week), for
even if imported clothes and whisky are shut
out the Australian will refuse to be abso-
lutely sober and nude. Casual nostrums may
be glanced at in passing and 'to fill in time,
such as the silver currency idea of Dr.
Maloney, but there is only one remedy to be
kept in view every day, and all day, and
even far into the night.
Position of Australia’s Sugar.
On August 31, 1931, the prohibition
placed by the Commonwealth on the importa-
tion of ' foreign-grown sugar will run out.
Already some people are clamoring against
a renewal of the embargo “that is extract-
ing many millions annually .from 'an impover-
ished community.” The real position is very
complex. Under the arrangement made
between the Commonwealth and Queensland
Governments and still current the wholesale
price for refined sugar was fixed at £37 6s. Bd.
a ton. Last year that allowed for a pay-
ment to the sugar-growers’ and -millers’ pool
of 1 £26 16s. a ton for raws, the other
£lO 10s. Bd. being absorbed in refining and
marketing, and from which the C.S.R. gets
its cut. Just how much the C.S.R. gets out
of each ton The Bulletin doesn’t know,
but it has figured out almost exactly how the
£26 16s. was distributed.
Though the £26 16s. a ton was paid last
year for raws consumed in Australia, the
export surplus has to be realised at world’s
parity; for the 1929 season it brought only
£9 17s. a ton. This reduced the average
net return to the grower and miller, as
ascertained by the Sugar Board, to
£2O ss. lOd. a ton for the whole of the pooled
crop.
Taking as a'base the figures of the Mul-
grave Central Mill (a co-operative no-
profit milling co., of _ Gordonvale, near
Cairns), the cost of milling ran into about
£4 9s. 3d. per ton of sugar, and growers
received £l5 16s. 7d. per ton of raws, equal
to £2 Bs. 2d. per ton of cane crushed. Out
of this they had to pay for labor and other
running expenses of their plantations,
figures for which are not available. _ Except
for those details, however, the position may
be stated this way:—
Paid to growers £l5 16 7
Cost of milling 1 9 3
Export surplus adjustment 6 10 2
Paid for raws i 26 16 0
Refining, marketing, etc. 1° 1,1 8
Wholesale Price op Fines £37 6 8
The size of the export-surplus adjustment is
due to the large proportion (38.4 p.c.) ot the
crop exported, and the low price realised tor
it. This item (£6 10s. 2d.) represents the
amount per ton taken by the Sugar Board
from Australian sales to even up the price
of the sugar sold outside, thus striking an
average price for the whole of the pooled
crop. . _
F. Hagelthorn, of the Town and Country
Union, the other day stated that the world
price of sugar was £9 to £lO a ton. Java
sugar had been quoted £9 10s. a ton c.i.t.
Melbourne, but to-day Australian consumers
paid £37 6s. Bd. wholesale for refined
Queensland sugar. “Making allowances for
small rebates to manufacturers,” he added
“it may be stated that we pay something
like £25 a ton more than world prices.
Those figures are quite misleading. The
quotation for Java sugar is apparently for
raws, not refined, and therefore is not a
basis for comparison. At any rate, Maori-
land. quite free to import any kind of sugar
it likes, is satisfied to pay £l9_Bs. 7d. a
ton wholesale at Wellington and £2O 18s. at
Dunedin for the high-class product of the
C.S.R. The tariff which foreign refined
sugar has to climb over is a mere id. a lb.,
or £2 6s. Bd. a ton. It is significant that
when the supply of Maoriland’s refined Fiji
sugar is inadequate, most of the balance is
imported from Australia.
Britain imposes a full-rate duty ranging
from £4 10s. a ton on lower-grades to £ll
13s. 4d. a ton on best quality; the preferen-
tial tariff on Empire produce is respectively
£2 10s. and £4 15s. London quotes for
Lyle’s No. 1 British granulated were recently
around £22 a ton.
Taking Maoriland figures as a guide, the
effect of the Commonwealth embargo on
foreign-grown sugar is to protect the indus-
try to the extent of about £l5 to £l7 a ton
of the refined product. The industry is
mainly carried on in that part of the con-
tinent to which it is most desirable for
national reasons to attract population, and
places Australia in an independent position
for its sugar supplies.
Prices in general are coming down, but sugar
is suffering abnormally, due largely to over-
production and competition from Czecho-
slovakia, whose real wages are amongst the
lowest in the world. It is just now the
Cinderella of commodities, fetching about
half the price of good flour; it is almost on
a par with potatoes. This position, of course,
is quite exceptional. In 1920 the wholesale
price of refined sugar in Australia was
raised to £49 a ton in order to recoup the
Commonwealth Government for the loss en-
tailed in the purchase at very high prices
of large quantities of foreign sugar, owing
to the shortage of the Australian, crop.
The present, then, is not a fair time. to
compare prices. No doubt all Australian
figures, both costs and prices, must be
brought down. But it should be done in
a rational way. As Federal Opposi-
tion-leader Latham remarked at Bowen
last week, the idea should be to bring
the rewards of those engaged in the sugar
industry into line with the returns possible
to those engaged in other industries. The
Bulletin sees no reason why a good
Australian industry, which. last year
certainly prevented 8 or 9 million pounds
from leaving the country, should be sacri-
ficed simply because artificially high costs
make open competition with low-wage coun-
tries impossible.
The Pending Trouble at Broken Hill.
The position at Broken Hill is difficult. A
conference will be held shortly between owners
and miners, at which no doubt the owners
will ask for a reduction of about 15 p.c. The
miners’ representatives, however affable they
may be, are not at all likely to agree to
recommend that or any other reduction.
Eighteen months ago they recommended their
big union to strike a 12j p.c. levy on behalf
of the Northern coalminers, and their appeal
ran this way: “The coalminers are being
attacked now and you will be attacked next.
If you want to keep your own wages from
being lowered, you must fight to keep the
coalminers’ wages from being lowered.” If
now the Broken Hill leaders advised their
unions to accept a reduction, it would look
like a 15 months’ fight and a good many thou-
sand pounds wasted.
The Bulletin has already said that, if
the matter is sent to a vote of the men, there
will be a much better chance of success if
the scheme submitted provides for the work-
ing of all the mines, including those now
closed. A further concession might be offered
in the shape of a sliding scale, with the in-
creases mounting so rapidly that with a ton
of lead and a ton of zinc together worth £4O
there might be an increase of 10 p.c., and
a further increase until with the metals
worth £5O the increase should be close up to
100 p.c. If the cos. offer the men a real
interest in a high market they can reasonably
ask for a real concession in a # low market,
and, more important still, the miners leaders
might feel themselves justified in .recommend-
ing it. Something will have to be done to
save their (face;
Australian Trade in Asia,
Hopes are expressed that Australia?!
manufacturers will get a larger share _ot
trade with the Orient, They should; but
it will have to be fought for. Foreign com-
merce; with Asia is subject to fierce competi-
tion, and the most successful nations are
those which most carefully prepare tor tnc
offensive. ~
Britain had the field in India all to her-
self until Germany began to take ailmteres..
The German bagmen found, among ten thou-
sand other things, that British manufac-
turers had been supplying eggcups made,to
fit the egg as laid by English fowls The
Asiatic hen is a miniature affair, and lays
fruit to correspond, so when the Indian
egg was put in the English cup it generally
disappeared below the surface if it didi
actually smash when it hit the bottom. ine
Germans took home sample eggs, made cuP s
to fit, and, until British traders mended then-
ways, collared the market. ■
It is essential to know the language ot
the people you are dealing _ with. 1 nis
enables you to deal direct with the native
instead of through a compradore who has
his own axe to grind and not infrequently
defaults. And the more intimately one
knows the people the better. Only thus
could it be discovered that Chinamen,
Japanese and Indians have peculiar prefer-
ences with regard to brands: A brand whose
color denotes joy in white-man countries may
be the hue of mourning in Asia, and emblems
like lions and kangaroos have not the same
appeal as dragons and crocodiles.
If Australian manufacturers want to get
into this field they will have to study the
methods by which their rivals got there
before them. '
Cattle Possibilities in Western Papua.
“Sina Wawa”: Some day somebody will
have a shot at running cattle in Western
Division Papua. If they dodge the common
error of new hands up there —lavish waste
of funds on non-essentials —they’ll win. Oyer
20,000 saba (a species of kangaroo growing
to over 4ft. 6in: and very distinct from the
Eastern Division’s magani) were shot within
two years by an oil prospecting show west
of the Fly River. And there seemed to be
as many left at the finish as there were at
the beginning. Despite this slight overcrowd
ing, grass was never known to be short.
Indeed, it is regularly burnt off by the Kuru
and Oriomo natives—it burns when quite
green and comes again within a week. There
is several hundred thousands ,of. acres of it
—open, rolling, well-grassed land, equal to
some of the best Downs (Q.) grazing country.
The zebu-cross would be tickproof. This is
essential. Rainfall is ample, and seldom
over the odds. Rivers are chiefly navigable
by shallow-draft craft to within a few miles
of source, and with a canning factory and
boiling-down works on the spot, “bulama-
hau” could be turned out for island and
Asiatic markets, whilst tallow and hides,
etc., would go to Europe via Thursday
Island—loo miles away over Torres Strait.
Labor is willing and plentiful. Pigs could
be run as a side-line.
The Whaling Business.
With several Australian cos. proposing a
somewhat belated entry into the whaling in-
dustry in home and Antarctic waters, there
is some interest in the action which the
League of Nations.is proposing to take with
regard to whaling generally. The. League
recently called together a committee of
experts on the subject, .and this has drafted
a convention which, it is hoped, will make
for the international protection of whales.
The views of the Governments interested are
being sought, and a conference will later be
called to adopt the proposed convention.
This suggests that the parties agree that
the convention operate over both the high
seas and all territorial waters. Licenses
are to be demanded from all whalers, none
to be permitted to work without this autho-
rity. The convention will apply only to the
“whalebone” whales, and forbids the taking
of the “right” whale now in danger of
extinction. The killing of calves and female
whales accompanied by calves is also to be
prohibited. Statistics showing the number,
size and sex of whales taken each season will
also have ,to be furnished.
It is a laudable aspiration. But without
rigid and therefore expensive inspection and
control in whaling waters —and there seems
to be no provision, made for that —it is diffi-
cult to see how the convention can be
enforced,
N. S. Wales trading figures for July show
very markedly tne combined effect of credit
stringency and the new tariff. Imports are
down 45 per cent, compared with July, 1929,
and some of the reductions are tremendous.
Motor bodies are down 99 per cent.; hosiery,
94 p.c.; rubber and tyres, 92 p.c.; motor
chassis, 89 p.c.; spirits and tobacco, 77 p.c.;
timber, 74 p.c.; glassware, 58 p.c. The whole
group of metal manufactures, including
motors and parts, shows a drop of 57 per
cent. Items that show the smallest decreases
are crockery, 5 p.c.; linen and cotton piece-
goods, 20 p.c.; fish, 28 p.c.; tea, 30 p.c.; and
paper and stationery, 33 p.c. The only item
of importance to show an increase is kero-
sene, imports of which have risen from
£21,334 to £28,527. In all the reduction, of
imports amounts to £2,746,545 on the month.
Side by side with this is an increase of ex-
ports by £483,470. It is a very healthy
trend no matter what misfortunes have
brought it about.
* * * iji
Apropos the belief of some people that
the present financial and industrial troubles
are due to the banks “tying lip” the country’s
money, the Bank of N. S. Wales, the greatest
of our money institutions, has actually in-
creased its advances by 12 millions since
March, 1929. And the Bank of N. S. Wales-
is not the only one. In 1920 the deposits in
Australian banks were nearly 60 millions in
excess of advances. Gradually the advances
were increased, until, on the latest figures,
they are verv .considerably in .excess of the
deposits. If banks are not handing out
money now as freely as they were 12
months ago, that fact explains why.
* * * *
All over Australia the greedy shark who
lives by peddling small loans at iniquitous
interest has been waxing fat for years on
military pensioners. It is true that these
pensions are legally inalienable. That has
not prevented the pension-card from being
regarded as a negotiable security, and since
the deal can only be done with the consent
of the pensioner, the fraud does not often
get publicity. There was a welcome excep-
tion in Sydney the other day when J. E.
Burnett, a moneylender, was convicted and
fined £5O with costs on each of three
charges, with imprisonment in default,
for having falsely stated lie was not
receiving pension instalments in payment
of a loan. He had lent a pensioner £lOB ss.
and charged £3l ss. in interest. He had re-
ceived £BO 10s. in pension instalments, and
had threatened to sell the pensioner up if
she did not continue her payments,. The
bright lad will have to pay the Repat. £8 Bs.
in addition to his other compulsory dis-
bursements.
* * * *
When the Federal Government some time
ago announced that 75,000 nickel coins had
been struck for use as currency in ex-German
New Guinea, the wisdom of the step was ques-
tioned by folk with a first-hand knowledge
of Island conditions. The Government
thoughtfully provided a hole in the middle of
the coins so that pocketless Brown Brother
could carry them on a string, but even that
failed to satisfy the critics. These have been
so insistent that issue of the coinage has
been withheld. The point is that Brown
Brother has no conception of a coinage sys-
tem. He only recognises the shilling and six-
penny pieces which, with the German tra-
dition still in mind, he persists in calling
marks and half-marks. No power on earth
can persuade him that 12 pennies are eciual
to one “mark,” and that is where the nickel
currency, consisting as it does of penny and
halfpenny tokens, is going to crash.
* * * *
Some of the largest things in the world
are not in America. For instance, the largest
butter factory, the largest cheese factory, and
the largest dried-milk and casein factory are
all in Maoriland, and all owned by the one
concern —the New Zealand Co-op. Dairy Co.,
which operates in the Auckland province.
This concern last season put more than- 6g
millions’ worth of dairy products on the
market; butter was the biggest item—32,4BB
tons One way and another the cow-cocky
in M.L. has a right to throw his chest out.
Some of the farms are producing 2001 b. of
butter-fat per acre: and cows walk into the
milking-shed with 2401 b. of butter per season.
In oiie herd-testing group (the practice is
now pretty well general) 1113 cows acquitted
themselves of an average of 3181 b. of butter-
fat in a milking season of 281 days.
* * * *
Apropos the output of the Commonwealth
Gil Refinery, this Page is told that the
juice is sold under only two names:
“C.0.R.” in Victoria and “C.O.R. British'
in Queensland, N. S. Wales and South Aus.
It isn’t-sold at all. in Westralia, which, it
is suggested, may explain why that State
feels unhappy. ' ' #
A Melbourne hotel, formerly the Ballarat,
now the Cosmopolitan, corner of Swanston
and Little Bourke streets, has been sold for
£60.000 with a view to reconstruction pre-
sently. ■ In 1885 the owners gave a 50-year
ground lease at £6 a week, and this has
still four years to run. The price runs out
at about £1937 a foot frontage.
* * * *
D. A. Mercer, owner of a sawmill in Too-
woomba (Q.), has replaced imported hard-
wood for parquetry floors in the new
Government biddings in Brisbane by rose
mahogany from Killarney, near Warwick.
Three floors of the new Commonwealth Bank
in Queen-street have been laid with this
flooring. Rose mahogany has a faint rose
fragrance, and is a deep rose-red in color.
It requires careful seasoning, however; it
resists white ants and borers well and is
extremely durable. It occasionally develops
oily patches, but it is believed this can be
overcome.
* * * *
One handicap designers of the motor-
driven ship have to overcome is the pre-
judice of the passenger. In the century
or so of steam at sea this essential person
has come to more or less calculate the capa-
city of a steamer by the number of her
funnels. One is all a motorship needs, and
even then it is only used for housing
silencers and exhausts. However, it is a
handicap to turn out a ship to run on a
popular passenger service unless she is fitted
with several funnels, so dummies are pro-
vided. The White Star line has recently
done something to utilise them. One of the
big Atlantic liners, the Britannic, carries a
dummy funnel fitted up as a smoking-room
for the ship’s engineers!
* * * *
Acting on the principle, apparently, that
it takes a good cat to catch a good rat, G. E.
PembeytOn passed through Sydney the other
day, bound for Hawaii, hoarding a collection
of some 500 live mosquitoes. These are not
of the type familiar to many Australians
and most island dwellers. They do not suck
blood, but depend for sustenance on plant
juices. If they are vegetarians, _ however,
their offspring are not, for their larvae,
spending that stage of their life in water as
the bloodsucking varieties of culex do, live
entirely on the larvse of the latter. The
vegetarian mosquitoes have their habitat in
New Britain, and are expected to wipe out
the increasing mosquito pest which lias of
late been threatening the tourist trade of
Honolulu.
*j» :ji *<•
“Shrdlu”: What will the advent of the
light Diesel engine run on crude oil mean
for the petrol automobile engine ? In marine
engineering the steam engine has been hard
pushed by its Diesel, rival. Many airplanes
and the new British trans-Atlantic airship are
fitted with light engines of this type, and an
experimental seven-seater car has made a
tour of many thousands of miles in America.
Here is a chance for Australia to get in on
the ground floor with a motor-car engine in-
dustry on new lines.


IEOTHEN” 128 E “* t Terrace
332 Wakefield St-
ADELAIDE
UNEXCELLED CUISINE
GARAGE
ndutive Tariff, £4-4-0
PAYING GUESTS “marker
dfg
dfg
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
50
ON SALE AT
ALL
Subjects Weekly,
ALSO COLORED PICTURES
WORTH FRAMING.
“The Australasian”
NEWSAGENTS The Paper all Australians apprcci-
EACII WEEK, ate, and their friends overseas, too !
UNSEEN
PROTECTORS
MOTORING
PLEASURE
NOTHING is more unpleas-
ant than to find a tyre
deflated when you want to
use your motor car—or to
have a tyre become gradually
deflated when on a trip.
Genuine Schrader Valve
Cores in good condition offer
utmost assurance against loss
of air through the valve.
Replace Valve Cores fre-
quently. Be sure that you use
on]y genuine Schrader Valve
Cores in your tyres. Five in a
box —one for each tyre.
For sale by tyre and acces-
sory suppliers everywhere.
Be Sure It’s a
SCHRADER,
£
e
ft
&
93*
£
ft
O'4
£
c
*A
4
a&o.
V
/
\ v
Look
for
the Name
Makers of Pneumatic
Valves Since 1844
Tyre Valves
Tyre Gauges
4
SgSSS
Kirby, Beard & Co., Ltd.,
Birmingham, London,
Redditch and Paris.
o-
7/f<?
Whatever the growth, there’s
no beard that can resist a
KIRBY BEARD RAZOR
BLADE. Made of a special
steel, with extra
keen edges that
last and give a
wonderfully clean,
unequalled shave.
From Stores, Chemists
and, Hairdressers.
a
&
Australian Agent:
H. E. UTTLEY, Margaret House,
282 George Street, Sydney.
Be sure you ask for
SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
U n
world-famous W
df
gdf
to
sa^
Ae VO-
t \ve^ od W
*&*<?■*&****
.vet
iXtS
«vV° e
evetV
is
rtfA** 5 ,^>¥^
SSSSsss--’'
s#|S
ftoto
frot* 1
■pe^ c
•pefl s
B.F. 230 C
Black or
Mottled
(with clip)
27/6
Jade with
Boiled Gold
Bands
30/-
Lapis Lazuli
with
Boiled Gold
Bands
g
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
Illustrated Catalogue post free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD., Swan House, London, W.I.
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents aid Repair Service Depot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, Ltd., iBi Clarence Street. SYDNEY.
D(A.)
SHADOW SHOWS.
Fox Movietone’s “The Arizona Kid” has
begun the suburban round after a spell at
Sydney Regent. Warner Baxter makes the
biigand a Dago, complete with accent,
crimped hair and white teeth gleaming
behind an eyebrow moustache.
Improbably wasn’t intended, for this is
no film for highbrows, but the Kid is a
remarkably sound study in criminal psychol-
ogy. He has the criminal’s sentimentalitv.
He approves of murder, provided the victim
isn t shot m the back, but can’t endure the
spectacle of a caged bird. He is asi flash as
paint, and his instinct for melodrama causes
him to take those risks which in life enable
the _ police to get two-thirds of their con-
victions. Another commendable feature of
the picture is its element of surprise. The
outlaw gives his murderous yet tender heart
a virginal-looking blonde, whose ailing
brother (really her husband) he has be-
friended. The revelation that she is a sor-
did Delilah is withheld for some time, and
the scene in which she engages him in con-
versation while he by means of a small
mirror sees the sheriff’s posse approaching to
arrest him is very effective. A great show
tor the young in years or mind.
¥ ¥ #
, I a “The Social Lion” (Paramount), at
Melbourne State, Jack Oakie is a garage
attendant. He displays such miraculous
powers at polo that he is made a member of
an exclusive country club, where he inno-
cently proposes to a leading beauty after
singing her a song of his own composition.
When she calls him “a poor’ sap,” he realises
that an aristocratic alliance is not for him,
and marries a telephone girl.
Oakie makes a delightfully irresponsible
character, of the garage man, and -as a
comedy the picture is satisfactory, but it
presents one of those mirrors of American
life which will always leave ah alien audi-
ence puzzled. It purports to show the con-
trast. between aristocratic snobbery and
plebeian simplicity, but. it misses its point
because there is not a pin to choose between
the behavior and appearance of one class and
the other. All are equally well-dressed and
all maltreat the English language in> pre-
cisely the same way. There is equality even
in the style of car all affect; and if there
is any difference in their intellectual attain-
ments, the actors engaged fail to emphasise
it.
# ¥ #
“The Furies,” which Sydney Capitol
screened with the comedy mentioned above,
has a significance of its own. Mr. and Mrs.
John Sands, of New York, are going to be
divorced. The family lawyer fears that the
lady, whom he worships in secret and who
has refused the offer of his services, 1 will go
out of his. life. So lie shoots Sands, and
allows various innocent people to be sus-
pected of the murder till the time comes for
him to hurl himself from the top of a sky-
scraper. Latent homicidal mania is. the ex-
planation of his .remarkable conduct. It
is not a bad story as mystery stories go, and
vast sums have been spent on the staging,
dressing and photography. The dialogue is
the trouble. None of it is conspicuously
witless, but all of it lacks bite and finish,
and its superfluities keep holding up the
action. Heard just after the polished inter-
changes of “The Green Goddess,” at the State,
the talk in “The Furies” helps considerably
to show what is chiefly wrong with the
talkies.
$ ¥ ¥
, At a private screening at the Victory,
St. Kilda, British Dominion Films gave an
indication of what a vast field of interest
and instruction the monopolists of Holly-
wood have neglected. It is many years since
somebody discovered that by taking motion
pictures at many times the usual rate and
projecting them at the normal speed life
could apparently be slowed down and made
to look us' it is represented in a well-known
story by H. G. Wells. Watching a nastur-
tium fulfilling its allotted span in the course
of a *few minutes gave the observer at the
Victory a clearer idea of relativity than half
a dozen readings of Bertrand Russell’s liter-
ary attempt to popularise the discovery of
Einstein. Flowers grew from seeds, blos-
somed, seeded and decayed in less time than
it takes Tom Mix to rescue a distressed
damsel. Another feature was a crook melo-
drama in which an English cuckoo pre-
vailed on a tit-lark to provide accommoda-
tion for its egg, the egg eventually hatch-
ing out a cuckoo, which illustrated the laws
of heredity by turning the tit-lark’s off-
spring out and occupying the entire premises.
These pictures were so well done that one
felt regret that so little use is likely to be
made of them. They would be as ’ out of
place in the average big-theatre programme
as logic in a Parliamentary discussion.
* * *
“Oh Yeah!” which materialised at Sydney
Haymarket recently, is interesting as a kind
of talkiefied harlequinade. There is a rail-
road camp instead of a butcher’s shop. The
two chief male characters, who get involved
in all kinds of train accidents, correspond to
the clowns; the waitresses at the eating-
house, with their twinkling quips instead of
twinkling legs ( Q .; “Where’s the caviare?”
A.: “Our fish ain’t laid no eggs to-day.”)
are the Columbines, and the camp “super”
is the traditional policeman who makes a
fool of himself by grabbing the wrong-
offender. “Oh yeah!” is the buffoon’s catch-
cry that permeates the show. The diction
is admirable (always provided you can
admire diction of the sort), and the train
disasters and mechanical noise-effects are
such as Drury-lane in its greatest days never
imagined.
Gaumont’s “Alf’s Button,” which is alleged
to be a British production, was also shown.
It is based on the venerable notion of a
summoned spirit. Alf and Bill are trans-
ported, on request, to palaces, Turkish
baths, ladies and drinks, only to wake up
in the trenches where their dream started.
The photography is poor, and so is the act-
ing. The best performers are a couple of
antipathetic English officers who are wholly
lacking in the heroic attributes of the dough-
boys.


Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW ZEALAND
WELLINGTON: DISTRICT.
No. 3654.
In Divorce. .
TO FRANCIS MATTHEW WALSH formerly of
Wellington but now of an address unknown and
formerly a Clerk but now a Waiter.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife Mary’ Gweneth
Walsh of Wellington has filed in the. Supreme Court
of New Zealand at Wellington a Petition, in-. Divorce
against you claiming dissolution of her marriage on
the grounds . of' separation for three. years. YOU
ARE THEREFORE NOTIFIED that unless you enter
an Appearance and file an Answer in the said Court
at Wellington within forty days from the appearance
of this advertisement the said-Petition will be heard
and determined in your absence. ;,
Dated at Wellington this 20th day of August, 1930.
, . - ,C. MASON,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly requested
to forward to him the foregoing advertisement.
JOHN FRANCIS BARR STEVENSON is the Solicitor
for the Petitioner, whose address is at the offices
of Messieurs Izard, Weston, Stevenson and Castle,
Solicitors, Number 161 Featherston Street, Welling-
ton, New Zealand.
__(This_Js^^l^^first^advertis^nentA^
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
When selecting a Sporting Rifle inspect
Winchester Model 56
Magazine Rifle
Using 22 cal. Long-rifle
Cartridges only.
Price, £5
post free.
dfg
Spare Magazine,
5 capacity, 5/6 extra.
10 capacity, 6/6 extra.
The Gun House,
COWLES DUNN,
Write for Leaflet B.
453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
For the Spring and Summer
Evenings.
MONDAY TO FRIDAY.
DELIGHTFUL SUPPER DANCES.
Commencing at 8 p.m.—and
'finishing at midnight.
SUPPER 5/ including dancing.
Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY NIGHT, LATE NIGHT.
Evening Dress Only.
Special Supper from 9 p.m., 10/6
—dancing till 2 a.m.
JACK WOOD’S POPULAR
AMBASSADOR ORCHESTRA.
Afternoon Tea
Dansant
3.30 till 5.30, 2/6
Saturday . . 4/-
’l’hone M 4131.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Phar Lap was beaten by Amounis in his
first race as a four-year-old, the Warwick
Stakes at Warwick Farm, but he went
down gallantly, and his reputation did
not suffer. Well primed as to his condition
—he had done no great amount of gallop-
ing—the ringmen offered 10 to 9, Nightmarch
being solid at 7 to 2, and Amounis (who
never looked better at this time of year)
having many friends at 6 to 1; Limerick
was also supported at sixes. The other
eight starters were neglected, except by
speckers on the tote. Fuji San made the
pace warm—so much so that they cut out
the > mile in lmin. 3Ssec. —but Amounis, gal-
loping with remarkable freedom for Jones,
had his measure at the turn, and shot into
the straight with a clear lead. Phar Lap
tackled him, and momentarily seemed to be
drawing away, but Amounis finished with
great resolution—both, in fact, did —and just
got there by a short head. Nightmarch was
a well-beaten third, three lengths away; Fuji
San was fourth, and Loquacious—looking
nice and bright—did the best of the others.
Limerick shaped indifferently, though it is
too early to say he is a spent force.
Phar Lap met with two checks during the
race, and the stewards rapped Pike over the
knuckles for “attempting to go where there
was not sufficient room” —a rare experience
for the crack jockey. Those two interrup-
tions made all the difference; nevertheless it
was a very fine performance on the part of
Amounis, who is indeed a wonder to be beat-
ing the best horses in the land at w.f.a. in
his ninth year. He and Phar Lap are
grand specimens of the thoroughbred, and
ic is a pity their great qualities will be lost
to the turf when they have finished racing.
This Page applauds the decision of the
A.J.C. and the V.R.C. to bar geldings from
the classics in the hope of saving future
Phar Laps and Amounises for the stud.
Amounis is booked for Victoria, where he
has 9st. 81b. in the Caulfield Cup. Second
to High Syce last year with 9st. 51b., he has
since won the Cantala Stakes (with 9st.
121 b.) and nine w.f.a. races, beating High
Syce, Phar Lap and Nightmarch, so he is
uncommonly well treated.
Bagby, the Maoriland jockey, was also
reprimanded by the stewards for his handling
of In the Shade in the Spring Handicap.
The verdict was that Bagby had ridden “an
ill-judged race” on the Australian Sun geld-
ing who, favorite at evens, was Deaten .by a
neck by Dalston, a likely sort of chestnut
trained by Walker at Randwick, who has
7st. 61b. in the Metrop. On the burly side,
Dalston was evidently not fancied by the
stable; anyway he went out at 12 to 1 in a
field of eight. He ran the 11 furlongs in
2min. 19fsec., and a young horse who can
do that when a bit above himself is entitled
to be respected for the Metrop., especially
as he is by Chief Ruler out of a Martian
mare, Tressilian was a fair third. Gay
Crest, of whom Maorilanders speak well,
was a disappointment, but Arapuni, a Per-
seus gelding from Westralia, ran a fair race.
In High Disdain’s absence, Holdfast was
made favorite, at 9 to 4, for the Campbell-
town Handicap, and he duly arrived, but he
hadn’t much to spare at the finish from
Credence (14 to 1), who had to come round
the field. Toper (5 to 1) was next
best, the six furjongs being run in lmin.
13Jsec. Holdfast is being prepared for
the Epsom, in which he has Bst. 71b., but
one doubts whether he will see out a fast
mile at Randwick. A more taking Epsom
trial was that of Habashon (7 to 1), who
has a Villiers Stakes to his credit, in the
Glenlee Handicap, though Black Douglas,
w t lio was a close fourth to Habashon, Leisure
Hour and First Sight (a stable-companion
of Limerick), might have troubled the win-
ner but for being hampered in the straight.
Pike was on Habashon, who is owned by
Hugh Denison, the newspaper knight.
• • • • • •
Veilmond ran some poor races in the
autumn, but he wintered well, and looks like
£ roving Sydney’s strongest card in the A.J.C.
>erby. Five to two in a field of 14 for the
Ilobartville Stakes, he came with a fast
run at the finish Wf seven furlongs (run in
lmin. 26sec.), and won handily from Bay-
acre (8 to 1) and Chemosli 16 to 1). By
Limond—Veil, Moss’s brown looks the part
of a Derby colt, which can hardly be said
of Bayaere, Chemosh or Frontier, who ran
fourth. Burracootboo, the brother to Gos-
hawk, may, however, furnish into a stayer,
and so may Salvador, the half-brother to
Eurythmic. Neither was backed on Saturday.
Lou Robertson pro-
duced Soulton for the
Aspendale Park Han-
dicap on Saturday,
and the Queensland
horse, who had been
in training locally for
a couple of months,
was pronounced a good
thing. But not by
F. E. Shillabeer, who
backed Shadow King
so heavily that the
nag shortened from 6
to 1 to half those
odds, Soulton reced-
ing to fours. Favor-
ably placed for most
of the journey, Soul-
ton looked a pay-out
proposition with four
furlongs to go; how-
ever, he failed to fight
on and missed a situa-
tion. The Guide (10
to 1) cut down
Shadow King a few
strides from home,
and scored by a neck,
with Byron half a
head farther off. Soul-
ton had only a pound
more weight than he is asked to carry
in the Caulfield Cup, and received 51b.
from Byron, to whom he will have to con-
cede 21b. at Caulfield.
• • • • • •
The Guide is owned and trained by Percy
Foster, who took Myarin to Sydney at
Easter. He was ridden by Ray Wilson, a
former “pony” jockey, now attached to the
stable which shelters Waterline; in the past
few weeks Wilson has scored twice (at Caul-
field and Williamstown) on Waterline, and
won three races in Adelaide, including the
Guineas on Axinus. After piloting The
Guide to victory, he landed the Purse for
“S. A. Rawdon” on Thrawn, an undersized
Lanius gelding. Those who have pinned their
faith to Waterline for the A.J.C. Metro-
politan need entertain no doubt of the
ability of Wilson to handle him satisfac-
torily.
• • • 9 • •
Cecil Godby managed to “break it” as a
trainer in Melbourne by capturing a Moonee
Valley hurdle race for bookmaker Wallace
Mitchell with Romeo. Penalised 71b., Romeo
went out a hot favorite for a similar event
at Aspendale, but made several jumping
blunders and was beaten into third place,
Tom Bourke (20 to 1) delighting the fielders
by easily vanquishing Canardly. As soon as
the right money came for Santorb in the
Three-year-old Handicap his price was cut
to ribbons; from 4 to 1 the Saltash colt
firmed to 6 to 4. He won, unextended, from
Fulham and an outsider, Amesbury. Two
seasons ago Strephon began a wonderful run
of victories by landing the three-year-old
event at Aspendale. Santorb, like Strephon,
is by Saltash and a chestnut. He belongs
to Godby, who paid SOOgns. for him as a
yearling.
• • • • • •
Clarius, favorite for the Aspendale Plate,
chased King of Revelry into the straight.
When asked to cut dowm the pacemaker, he
quickly snuffed out. King of Revelry (9 to
2), who inherits fine speed from his grand-
sire, The Welkin, won as he liked from
Clarion Call, with honest old David Garrick
third. Clarion Call (by Saltash) is a deep
chestnut of the Malt King type. At ( the
starting point he reared up and tried to ‘ pull
down the stars”; yet A. Wilson got him
away smartly.
On the score of having beaten Waterline at
Dunedin in May, Red Sea was heavily backed
for the Welter Handicap, but she looked
very light and finished far back in the field.
Victory rested with Beau Geste (10 to 1)
by a length from Neretti, who tried to lead
throughout.
% * * *
After competing in the Memsie Stakes at
Caulfield, Waterline will be taken to Sydney
for the Metropolitan. Mollison and Glare
have been under a cloud, and it is doubtful
whether they will oppose Waterline on
Saturday. If Amounis starts the race ought
to be a gift for him. Selections: —
Whittier Handicap: Zauibar; next, Park-
w T ood.
Memsie Stakes : Amounis ; next, Waterline.
* * * *
For Canterbury Park on Saturday :
Three-year-old Handicap: King March or
Tregilla; next, Dunraven.
Flying Welter: Credence; next, Citamon
or Goldminer.
Canterbury Stakes: Brazenface; next,
High Disdain.
September Handicap: Vertoy; next, Flin-
ders.
Campsie Handicap: King March or Lord
Kennaquhair; next, Garrula.
THE OLD LOVE AND THE NEW.
“The wife told me this morning that I could
choose between her and golf.”
“By Jove, old man, that’s tough.”
“It is, by George. Heaven knows how I’ll
manage without her.”
“Brennan Park”: The Westralian Trot-
ting Association caused a stir the other day
by issuing a notice warning owners and con-
trollers of stables and reinsmen against asso-
ciating with professional punters. The
latter, in their turn, were told they were
in danger of being warned off. The Asso-
ciation’s action is one that might be imitated
by every racing club in Australia. Perhaps
the Sydney pony oligarchy will follow the
good example, now T that a suspended jockey
has come out with a statement that he has
“pulled up” thousands of ponies in his time
—but perhaps it won’t.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Welterweights Jack Carroll (lOst. 31b.)
and Wally Hancock (lOst. 61b.) threw
gloves at one another for 15 rounds at Syd-
ney Stadium, but the former scored by far
the larger number of direct hits and col-
lected the verdict. H’is stabbing lefts to the
face would have given a lightning calculator
a headache trying to keep tally of them.
Hancock allowed few to pass him.
Ted Thye (13st. 61b.) and Billy Edwards
(13st. 81b.) put tlieir turn on at Melbourne
on Saturday, Sydney having seen it twice.
By one of those accidents which will happen
in the best-regulated wrestling families,
Edwards’s left eye was gashed early in the
piece and his ferocious glares must have been
painful. They were equal in falls, one apiece,
in the seventh round; then the Canadian
kicked Thye, who whanged him on the chin,
and Edwards, rising in a rather woozy state,
clipped the inoffensive little referee behind
the ear. Edwards, on a foul.
Footbrawl
The position in the Vic. League competi-
tion grows weekly more intriguing. Colling-
wood meets Carlton this coming Saturday,
and if it can win will be level in games won
and ahead on percentages. A victory by
Carlton or a draw will definitely give that
club the leadership in the first round. Last
week-end Carlton had to move to down St.
Ivilda by 108 to 97, while Collingwood put
it all over Footscray with 116 points to 77.
For the third and fourth places, four teams
are scrambling. Next Saturday Melbourne
meets Richmond, and the loser will probably
go out. Essendon still has a “possible,”
but as it has to meet St. Ivilda and Colling-
wood, its hopes aren’t bright; still, it kept
its place on Saturday by beating Melbourne
in a fast and willing finish —Essendpn, 89
points; Melbourne, 79. By outing South by
104 points to 88, Geelong hung on to its
place, and as it lias only two weak teams
to meet, looks safe for a semi-final. Of the
others, Richmond beat North Melbourne
by 135 points to 40, and Fitzroy smashed
Hawthorn with 104 points to 34.
* * * *
For the first time since 1899 Australia
has defeated Great Britain in a Rugby Union
Test. Final scores were 6 to 5 —■2 tries to
a converted try. The 31,000 spectators at
Sydney C. G. saw a magnificent exhibition of
fast and clean Rugby. It is a pity that this
game was the only Test; it was so close and
so full of thrills from start to finish that
most Of the onlookers would have liked to see
a best-out-of-three series. The hard ground
gave the fast backs of both' sides every chance.
The Australian pack was in a different cate-
gory from the N.S.W. vanguard of the
previous Saturday. Bonis hooked with great
success, while, with his burly brother Queens-
lander Thompson, he materially added to
the strength of the Australian rucking. In
spite of the superior weight of the opposition,
headed by the giant Beamish and Ivor Jones,
the home forwards gave as good as they got.
Lawton not only played magnificent football,
but was an inspiration to liis side. With
Malcolm he was _ in everything, the first
Australian try gained by the latter ending
a great piece of combined work. The centres
did only fairly, King mishandling more than
one fine opportunity. Both Crossman and
McGhie were first-class on the wings, tack-
ling the heavy opposition manfully, and being
always dangerous in attack. McGhie scored
Australia’s second try, while Crossman was
all but over on several occasions. Ross was
again himself at fullback. Behind the fine
British pack, Spong was again the star, but
found the opposition as clever as himself.
Murray was outgeneralled by Malcolm; Bow-
cott was the best of the other insides. On the
' wing, Reeves, very lame at the finish, found
Crossman his equal this time, and Aarvold
on the other side was equally hampered by
McGhie. Fullback Beamish showed rare
form, though he, too, was limping from a foot
injury in the last ten minutes. All the
winners’ point-s were scored in the first hall.
In the second the heroic attempts of the
losers to score again, with the defence and
counter attack, had the big crowd on its feet
throughout the period.
* * * *
Western Suburbs again took the lead iu
the Sydney Rugby League competition by
beating the premiers, South Sydney, 16-0,
or 2 tries and 5 goals by Jim Craig to a
converted try by Wearing. The game was
very rough and dirty, though only a couple
of players were given marching orders.
Curious how that sort of spirit crops up
in the League games towards the end ot
the competitions. It is doing the game no
good, and with the Union growing m favor
something will have to be done. Balmain
won easily from University by 31 to 9 at
Birchgrove, while St. George maintained its
belated run against North Sydney at Earl
Park, winning 18-8. Eastern Suburbs got
a shock from Newtown at Marrickville, the
home side running them close. East won 7-o.
(Continued on next page.)
Australian runners did well for the Empire
in the series against the U.S.A. at Chicago;
Golding, Whyte and Hillhouse helped to ivin
three relay races. ‘ At Toronto subsequently
Golding won the quarter in brilliant fashion;
his time was 47 9-10 sec., which beats
his own Australian record by 4-10ths of a
second. Whyte ran second in the mile, with
Hillhouse third. The M.L. eight won the
boatrace from the Argonaut Club, of Van-
couver.
THE EXPLANATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Hobbs has been disclosing some of his cricket
superstitions. He always puts his right pad on first.
I wandered, when the game I played on old-
time greens and leas,
Why decent scores I seldom made, and never
centuries.
For I could drive with vim intense; my cut-
ting wasn’t bad;
And I’d a fairly sound defence —at least, I
thought I had.
I always felt that I could bat. It seemed
uncommon hard
So oft to realise a rat was in my timber
yard.
Balls that I’d hardly touch would draw the
’keeper’s frenzied shout,
And up would go the umpire’s paw that
signifieth “out.”
’Twould either be my cruel fate a leg in
front to get,
Or give mid-on a “sitter,” straight, ere
I was fairly set.
I came to sense some evil spell that might
not be withstood.
For I could “sight ’em” just as well as
other fellows could.
I puzzled on the why and how. Long years
I’ve hqd to waif
For full enlightenment, and now it comes,
alas! too late.
What queered my pitch, time and anon, is
now apparent, quite.
I always put the left pad on before I put
the right.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


Gert*. How are you getting; on
With vour physical
CULTURE
Bert;* I've g»iven it up too
STRENUOUS?
Qert '."Then arent you do»n<g
ANY EXERCISES NOW \"
Bert j*Oh yes \ roll, my own
cigarettes’’
Footbrawl
i ‘‘ H ° tlian ?” : For years the Victorian Foot-
aall Association and its breakaway brother
the League have been making faces and
asking each other to come on. A world
ol argument has grown up as to whether the
League or Association players are the better,
that is all to be settled by a match between
the premier teams of the rival bodies at
the end of the season. Proceeds go to the
unemployment fund, and the gate should be
a rmgerbeller.
* * * *
“Jolimount”: Rough and foul play has
been so prevalent in Melbourne football this
season that the League has put the hard
word on its umpires. It has notified them
that any failure to report dirty work in
future will result in the blue pencil being
put through their names.
* * * *
‘Fitzcray ’: Carlton (Vic.) has signed a
contract for a £12,000 grandstand. The club
has quite a lot of brass stacked away on its
edges, and for the seven matches before this
was written its whacks of the gates have been
£B6O, £B5O, £BlO, £7BO, £642 and
£093. Who said slump?
* ❖ He
“Stand Off”: One aspect of the game
against England in which N.S.W. failed
badly was the line-kicking. The match was
played under the international rules by which
kicking into touch on the full is permitted.
Some years ago, Australia and Maoriland,
obsessed with the idea that “keeping the
ball in play” made the game faster and more
attractive, altered this to a rule which, prao.
tically ensured that the kicked ball must at
least strike the ground in the field of play.
In spite of the fact that many of the N.S.W.
players had experience of the international
rules during the Waratah tour, more than
one of them, including fullback Ross, fol-
lowed the keep-the-ball-in-play obsession.
Not so the Englishmen. Time and again the
English custodian made 30 or 40 yards of
ground without troubling his men, while the
Australian vanguard was galloped off its feet
chasing the ball “kept in play.”
❖ * :|: *
“Amateur Pro”; Quite interesting to the
bystander has been the fury of the Rugby
League press in Sydney over the successful
appearance of the English Rugby Union
players. An odd expression of this was
written round the departure of a well-known
Queenslander who has been deep in League
counsels in that State. The inspired ass who
wrote the article suggests that the Rugby
Leaguedte is bound for England specially to
inform the English Rugby Union that some
of the men now playing Union football
against the British team once followed the
professional League code. What odds? If
Australian unions choose to reinstate profes-
sionals, there is no rule against their doing
so ; it is purely a domestic matter. As for
the gentleman bound for England, the writer
can vouch for it that he has too much horse
sense to butt in where his reception would
certainly be the reverse of cordial.
❖ * • ' * Hi
“Gate”: The bludgeon of depression has
hit even the N.S.W. Rugby League. Not
that this affluent body was perturbed at the
falling-off in gate takings this season. What
did arouse its ire was the discovery that
certain complimentary tickets issued for one
of its big matches had been hawked round
outside the gates and sold for as little as a
shilling. It is bad enough to think that a
compliment of the sort has been spurned by
the complimentee, so to speak. That he or
she should be a party to letting someone
get a half-crown seat for a bob, at the
League’s cost, is not to be borne.
The Fifteen
Woodffill’s Wanderers filled in the week
following the fifth Test with a couple of
county matches, in the first of which, against
Gloucestershire, they came within a hair’s-
breadth of losing. The Cheesemen were all
out for 72 on a villainous wicket, Horni-
brook and Hurwood being chiefly responsible.
Australia could do no better than 157,
Parker and Goddard showing fine form with
the ball. Gloucester’s second try realised
202 ; Hornibrook again bowled well, to take
!) for 69 in the match. A neek-and-neck
finish saw Australia get the 117 needed to
tie, but no more. There have been only 14
other ties in the history of first-class cricket.
Australia figured in one of them when the
Australian Eleven played Fifteen of Victoria
and N.S.W. at Melbourne in 1877-78.
The second game, against Kent, ended in
a draw. Australia went for 181 in the first
hit, our old friend “Tich” Freeman taking
5 for 78. Kent piled up a stolid 227, and
Woodfull closed the Australians’ second
essay at 320 for 3 wickets. Woodfull (45).
Jackson (50 n. 0.), and, of course, Brad-
man (205 n. 0.) made the runs. This
is Bradman’s 11th three-figure score for the
season. Kent’s second shot yielded 83 for
2 wickets, Frank Woolley making 60 n.o.
* * Hi
“Lansdowne”: Ties in big cricket are
rare; as one who sets the game above the
result I wouldn’t be sorry if they came more
often. In English county cricket they occur
now and again—Essex and Somerset played
? n two or three years ago—and of course
m club and low-scoring village cricket they
are much more frequent. In football it is
the other way; _ ties are a great deal too
common in Association, though comparatively
rare in the Australian game with its
immense scores. In football, however, an
extra half-hour can be played to settle the
question of supremacy, and an extra round
in certain other pastimes, but nobody has
hit upon any such handy method for decid-
ing a cricket tie. (A single-wicket match
between the two skippers would be one way.)
There are certain games, of course, where a
tie is impossible, notably tennis, fives and
racquets, but I am not at all sure it is an
advantage. It is safe to say that the spec-
tators at Bristol got more for the’r money
when the Australians and Gloucestershire
ran neck-and-neck past the winning post than
any other English crowd has done this
season.
* * * *
“Caius”: One of the weirdest pronounce-
ments issued in connection with the last
Test match is that of Leveson Gower, one of
the English selectors. He asks if English
players “trained in a school of compara-
tively free hitting” can be expected to compete
with the “timeless batsman” of Australian
ericke.t. Who are the English free hitters?
Sutcliffe, with his 50 in two and a half
hours, or Wyatt, wdiose performance for 04
was even more funereal?
* * * *
“Shrewsbury” : Not since Victor Trumper’s
day has any cricketer so caught the imagina-
tion as Don Bradman. Still, as one who has
often watched the pair at work, I insist
on giving precedence to the lad from Pad-
dington. All very well to talk about elderly
obsessions, but the cold fact is that the
Bowral boy has never had to tackle anything
like the bowling which Victor Trumper
dealt with in such cavalier fashion. Brad-
man has had a wonderful year in first-class
cricket. But “A’m saayin’, an’ A’m noon
arguin’,” as they have it in Lancashire, that
this is due to his having been a Triton
among the very miserable lot of bowling
minnows which England has produced this
year.
* * * *
“Aigburth” : It is announced, and probably
truthfully, that Don Bradman used only
three bats in knocking up his compilation of
2522 runs by the end of the fifth Test. The
fact is a tribute to his fine sense of getting
the ball right in the middle of the stick —
it is the edging that shortens the life of a
bat. Nevertheless, the English climate is
all in favor of bat preservation. A player
in Australia, and especially in North Queens-
land, is lucky if he can get through the
season with half a dozen, no matter how
carefully he attends to oiling and binding.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: One interesting result of
the crowning mercy which saw Australia
victorious at the Oval is the early blooming
of cricket in spaces usually given over at
this time of year to football. On Moore
Park, Sydney, when the British footballers
were up against N.S.W., there were quite
as many cricket as football games in pro-
gress. Over the road was to be seen one of
the finest exhibitions of Rugby football Aus-
tralia has harbored for many years. The
youngsters’ troubles about that. All and
sundry had the example of Don Bradman
before their eyes and were out to emulate it.
* * * *
“The Hove”: My old pal Jack Hobbs
has developed the inferiority complex. Look-
ing back on the last Test series, ha is of
the opinion that England is bound to lost
the next two or three because it has
no bowlers. If he had said “none in
sight,” I would have been inclined! to
agree with him. That doesn’t mean that
there are not plenty of good ones blushing
unseen. When John himself came out with
Jones’s side he was regard >d as merely pro-
mising. Hayes, an all-rounder from the same
county, overshadowed him. Yet Hayes’s
name is now one with Nineveh and Tyre,
while Hobbs has his inscribed on the rolls
of the immortals.
❖ ❖ % %
“Bramall Lane” : Running over the scores
in England, one notes that the tour-
ists, up to the end of the final Test,
had made 25 centuries, while only seven
were scored against them. The. aver-
ages of the first dozen players on the
list are much higher than those of any pre-
vious team, and yet no one would be pre-
pared to say the siJe was one o'f super-bats-
men. In cold fact it is the English bowling
that is at fault. If the Cold Country can
dig up another couple like Syd Barnes and
Frank Foster there will be some gnashing
of teeth among our so-caiied super-batsmen.
* * * *
“Headingley”: Quite a number of Aus-
tralian barrackers breathed a sigh of relief
Avhen the team chosen for England in the
deciding Test did not include Wilfred Rhodes.
As matters turned out the selection of the
great left-hander might have proved trouble-
some to Australia. This season is the little
Yorkshireman’s last in first-class cricket. He
and Victor Trumper made their bow in Test
cricket in the same match, that at Trent
Bridge in 1899. Rhodes has played in 41
Tests and is the only Englishman to score
1000 runs and take 100 wickets in the
series. Beginning as a bowler and a last-
wicket batsman for Yorkshire, he climbed in
later years to be opening batsman and bowler
for England.
% % ifc
“St. John’s”: Britain is as much affected
by the. yelper press as Australia. Its latest
ebullition is a statement that Bradman
never applauds an opponent when the latter
has made 50 or a century. The matter
seems almost too childish for words, but the
rag in question gravely announces that it
has had a “special commissioner” on the
watch, and that his report is that the Bowral
boy remains studiously neutral when a bats-
man of the other side is doing things that call
for applause. Following on Lyon’s comment
on Bradman”s “affected walk” to the wicket
from the pavilion, this latest nonsense
arouses wonder as to the mentality of British
cricket reporters nowadays.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Glenelg”: The perennial Legh Winser
has again got away with the South Aus-
tralian amateur golf championship, beating
W. F. Rymill, previous holder of the title,
by 4 and 2. Winser, who has represented
South Australia at cricket as a wicket-
keeper, has never done much in the way
of golf outside his own State, though he has
figured in the final of one Australian four-
somes championship. He is none the less an
accomplished player and a consistent one.
* * * *
“Seaton” : There was an unusual ending to
the match between Rymill and Lemann in
the semi-finals of the South Aus. amateur
championship. Rymill’g putt hung on
the lip of the hole on the final green,
and Lemann, who had only to get
down to win, had a. shot ai it. He was off
his line,. however, and his ball knocked
Rymill’s into the cup. securing the latter the
hole. Under rule 32, it would seem that
Lemann had the right to move Rymill’s ball,
but failed to take advantage of it. As it
was his opponent was credited with having
holed out on his last stroke.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Melbourne is likely to be the
first Australian city to follow the midget
golf craze that has lately smitten the Cold
Land. Charles Tait is contemplating employ-
ee Firm’s surplus carpenters and mechanics
in laying out an 18-hole course on the top
of a Collins-street building. He has the
services of an expert who has just returned
from America with the necessary informa-
tion.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: Britons are giving up “the
dogs” to play on miniature golf courses. All
the leading seaside resorts have broken out in
a rash of them, and hotels, cinemas, ware-
houses, and every place with a little room
to spare, even if it be only on the roof,
are following suit. Regent-street already
boasts a couple of these courses, and the
famous Skindles pub at Maidenhead up the
Thames has constructed one that can be
rolled up and taken indoors if it rains!
The charge is 6d. a round, and you find your
own club —usually a mid-iron —and ball.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: One of the tragedies that
come to a golfer sooner or later is the real-
isation that he has gone off his game.
It has often happened to the writer, and
now it seems to have smitten another promi-
nent person, the Prince of Wales, no less.
It is pleasant,, however, to note that the
young man has realised the reason of liis
lapse—his attention to the advice and in-
struction of all and sundry as to how to
play. Golf is really easy. It only amounts
to hitting a ball with a stick, a thing every
human being is born to as the sparks fly
upward. But the thing has become so fenced
about with blithering tradition and con-
vention that the human element has almost
vanished from it. It is only when the fact
dawns on the player, as it has on the Prince,
that the teachings of the pedants must be
discarded that volf becomes a game again
instead of the nightmare it is to those still
wallowing in the Egvptian darkness of the
conventions.
* * # #
“Ecclefechan”: That reference to golf
being essentially a sport of the common
people (B. 27/8/’3O) is timely. Few of
those who nowadays regard it as a recreation
of the well-to-do recall that its beginnings
in Scotland were among the peasantry, and
especially the shepherds of the border. These
men. carrying the crook which was then the
symbol of their trade, used to while the mono-
tonous hours away by hitting round stones
with the crooks. Individual effort then grew
to contests between shepherds whose flocks
marched with each other, and so the game
was evolved. A great many of the Scottish
laws forbidding games which interfered with
the practice of archery and other military
training specially refer to golf as a pursuit
to which what we would call the ■working
man was particularly addicted. At the same
time the highest in the land followed the
pastime. There is a famous sermon of John
Knox which damns Queen Mary of Scots
and her ladies for playing golf on Stirling
links on a Sunday morning.
* * * *
“The McH'aggis”: St. Andrews boasts a
silver putter with a curious history. Follow-
ing a dispute as to longevity, David Mori-
crieffe backed his life against that of John
Whyte-Melville for a silver club to be
presented to St. Andrews. The price of the
club was to be paid by the survivor, it hav-
ing the arms of the parties and the details
of the bet engraved upon it. Since that long-
ago day, the silver putter as a perpetual
trophy has been reduplicated in clubs far
afield from St .Andrews, and sometimes with
the blessing of the R. and A. to add cachet.
Kooyonga (S.A.) is supposed to house one,
and the Royal Queensland another.
Car and Cycle
Rudolph Caracciola, the German-Italian
driver who carried off the Irish Tourist
Trophy at Dublin in July, scored another
winning bracket last week by taking the
Irish Grand Prix, staged at Belfast. Carac-
ciola drove the same car which he steered
to victory in the Dublin race, a big super-
charged Mercedes-Benz rated at 7069 e.c.
It was a fine performance for such a big car,
for the race is held round a road lap of
about 4J miles, full of corners. Victor Gillow,
who finished second, drove a 1087-c.c. Riley,
in which he won the Saorstat Cup for small
cars the day before at a rate of 72.2 m.p.h.
In the Grand Prix event his time was 72,20
m.p.h., while Caracciola in his huge Mercedes
averaged 85.88.
* * He *
“Whizz”: The work of building up the
chassis for the R.A.F. engine with which
Norman Smith and Don Harkness propose to
tackle Segrave’s world’s record next January
was formally inaugurated last week in Syd-
ney, when Minister Beasley drove an official
rivet. The car will be 26ft. over all and will
be streamlined to the well-known Golden
Arrow design. The British Government’s
secret aeroplane engine to drive the chassis
develops 1700 h.p., which is about all the
information allowed to leak out about it.
Both Smith and Harkness are confident that
their new jigger will cut out 300 m.p.h.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The Victorian Light Car Club,
an enterprising body which inaugurated Aus-
tralia’s first road race for motor-cars on
Phillip Island, completed a petrol consump-
tion and dependability trial over a 500-mile
course last week. Prizes were given for the
best and second-best miles a gallon, best
10 miles a gallon, and for exceeding the
standing record of 83 miles per gallon. An
Austin Seven, driven by C. May, caught
the highest, mileage per gallon with 79.9 in
the small-car class. Among the big cars, a
Citroen came out on top with a mileage of
59 to the gallon.
* * * *
“Trembler”: A quaint yarn comes from
the U.S.A. concerning the Indianapolis 500.
C. Miller, driving a T-model Ford, found
he had broken a front spring. The
committee refused to let him go on without
replacement, and there were no spare parts
available. The difficulty was solved by going
over to the parking area and pinching a
spring from a private T model there. When
the race was over the stolen spring was hur-
riedly replaced, and the guilty parties got
away before the car-owner turned up to
claim his property.
* * :!= *
“Bumpk” : The motor speedboat is threat-
ening the vogue of the motor-car in Mel-
bourne. So much so that the Shell people
have erected a petrol pump on the bank of
Yarra Water. It is reckoned that there are
over 300 of the mosquito craft about the
river, and they are not only being used for
sport; parking fees, motor-car taxation
and the growing congestion in the city have
induced some city men to use the river for
coming into business. There are no traffic
blocks, cops, unlicensed car attendants or
stationary trams as yet on the Yarra, and
the river scenery is definitely superior to the
street variety.
**, * *
“Baffy”: It is generally admitted that the
sleepy lizard of the Australian baekblocks
can show no points to the Australian Golf
Council when it comes to lack of initiative
and that tired feeling generally. Australian
golfers are particularly keen on entertain-
ing a team of British amateurs on this side,
and negotiations with St. Andrews have
shown that a team can be got to come. How-
ever, the council, to the accompaniment of
much yawning, has announced it doesn’t feel
like extending an invitation “in view of the
prevailing depression.” Efforts are being
made to get it to change its mind.


9
FOR
i
BOYS’ NAVY -/- !
BLAZERS 5/11
BLTN.I—A special Purchase of boys’
navy blue Woollen Flannel Blazers. Well
made and finished with neatly corded
edges of Gold, Red and Royal Blue.
Sizes 0 to 4. Fit boys 2 to 6 years.
Usual Price, 8/11.
SPECIAL PRICE
5/11
Sizes 5 to 10. Fit boys 7 to 12 years.
Usual Price, 9/11
SPECIAL PRICE
611
wm
mm
.&
:
w
m
m
mm
m
Wm
mm
WMm
m
tv
i
WKM
0
mu
m
■ %
3/11
5/11 BOYS’ NAVY
Serge Knickers
3/11
BLTN.2—This news will gladden many a
mother’s heart. Fancy getting a good
strong Navy Woollen Cheviot Serge
Knicker at this price. They are strongly
lined with Silesia, and are in sizes 3 to
13. Easily worth 5/11.
Now a permanent special
3/11
il
m
BOYS'
SERGE
SUIT
1611
BLTN.3 —Wonderful value in Boys’ Navy Woollen Cheviot Serge
Cotswold Suits, well made and strongly lined throughout. A
serviceable suit of good appearance and a hard
wearer. Sizes 4to 13, to fit boys 6to 15 years,
WINN’S SPECIAL
16/11
<S M.J
m
Worth
8/6
Collar
to
Match
BLTN.s—Men’s Poplin De Luxe Golf
Shirts, in a good-quality silk v finish,
in light grounds, with neat colored
woven striped designs. Sizes, to
17. Usual Price, 8/6.
Special Price at 3 Stores,
5/11
3/6 Men’s
Fancy Socks ..
BLTN.6 —Men’s High-grade Fancy
Silk and Art Silk _ Half-hose, in
fancy figured designs in colorings of
Greys or Fawns; all sizes. Usual
Prices, 3/6 and 2/11. t l
3 STORES SPECIAL PRICE, */
1/6
70 INCH COLORED BORDER
R4H43H CLOTH
t 3 SERVIEIIES
THE LOT
dfg
BLTN.7—Yes! Springtime and new
dainty Damask Table Cloths, in
snowy-white Dice pattern Damask,
with pretty colored borders of Helio
and Gold, and they are 70 inches
long and 50 inches wide; also three
Serviettes, 18 x 18 inches. Alii
At Winn’s 3 Stores .... %jf X Jl
WE PAY FREIGHT on all Drapery
Mail Orders of 20/- or over any-
where in New South Wales.
2/6 BOYS’
SHIRTS
1/74
dfgdfg
dfg
df
BLTN.4 —Boys* Good-quality Dark
Grey Oxford Blouse Shirts, with
Peerless Collar, a real good washer
and a roomy make. Sizes, 10J to
13£ inch. Usual Price, 2/6.
3 Stores Special
1/74
SEND
FOR
THIS
S 3
MAIL THIS COUPON
Messrs. WINNS LTD.. SYDNEY.
Dear Sirs.—Please post me a copy of this
Catalogue, by return post.
PRINT
NAME
PRINT
ADDRESS
PRINT
TOWN
'OB./6/S ‘MATO
WINN'S L™
16-28 OXFORD ST-SYDNEY.
Miscellaneous
“Bumpk”: The discovery of good icefields
within 60 miles of Melbourne has led to a
boom in ski-ing. Near Warburton is Mount
Donna Buang, a conical peak rising to 4080
feet and snow-covered for weeks on end. The
residents, however, have been less enter-
prising than those of Marysville, at about
the same distance in another direction ; there
a ground has been prepared. The Ski Club,
with an annual subscription of ten shillings,
is mounting in members, and a way has been
found of preparing them even in summer for
their first experience. At Eaglemout, seven
miles from Melbourne, is a steep hillside
covered with greasy onion-grass. Here any
Sunday afternoon dozens of beginners can
be seen being put through their paces. With
the assistance of a small boy on a pony to
give them a tow they can get up sufficient
speed to provide them with a good tumble;
and the climb back to the < summit is as fine
a training as could be wished for.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: The recent fuss over the G.P.S.
boatrace in Sydney recalls a similar turn-
up in the inter-State eight-oar championship
of 1895, rowed on the Brisbane River. The
Victorians had committed the then unpardon-
able crime of permitting a professional per-
son to row bow in the boat —he was a cash
cyclist only, but that did not matter. Pro-
tests were made by N.S.W., and the night
before the race the N.S.W. rowing authori-
ties wired forbidding their crew to start.
Owing, perhaps, to the Queensland hos-
pitality of those golden days, the order was
defied, and‘the race resulted in Victoria win-
ning from N.S.W. and Queensland. The
Ma State heads promptly countered by dis-
qualifying their crew and coach for life, and
ordering their boat to be burned by the
common hangman or something like that.
Later they thought better of it, and the
ban was lifted.
* * * #
“Hotham”: The Henley-on-Yarra com-
mittee has been feeling the pinch of hard
times added to poor gates due to bad weather.
To dodge the latter the date of the meet-
ing has been put back a month, while to.
induce the public to come along with its
old-time enthusiasm, admission to the enclo-
sure will be 2s. in future for the racing during
the day, and Is. 6d. for the “carnival” at
night—a reduction of 25 per cent, in each
case. Unfortunately much of the Henley
course is free for all, and this year the
crowd lining the banks above the enclosure
promises to be thicker than ever.
* * * *
“Crawl”: Mercedes Gleitz, the English
girl who specialises in long-distance swim-
ming, has added the crossing of the Helles-
pont to her other triumphs, and is thus one
up on the late Leander. The distance across
is four miles, but there is an ugly current.
The lady, who performed the feat during her
honeymoon, swam the Channel in 1927, and
has also crossed the long stretch between
Ceuta on the African shore and Gibraltar.
She has been beaten by the Wash, the Morav
Firth in northern Scotland and the Irish
Channel. Her next attempt will be the
crossing of Cook Strait, and after that there
seems to be nothing left but a swim across
the Tasman to Sydney, a feat which., if she
accomplishes it, should effectually wipe the
eye of Amy Johnson.
* * * *
“Splash”: The International Swimming
Federation has issued a list of eight new
world’s records for the flappers. Australia
has scored well, Bonnie Mealing being
handed the cake for the 100 metres back-
stroke (lmin. 20 3-ssec.) and the 150 yards
ditto (lmin. 55 l-ssec.). Miss D. Welch has
been credited with lOmin. 33 l-ssee. for the
500 metres breast-stroke. America has also
scored three times and Holland and Germany
once each.
* * * *
“Splash”: The N.S.W. water-polo folk are
making another attempt to bring a side
from Noumea. The islanders are very keen
on the game, and are reputed to play it
exceptionally well. As the Victorians will
be coming to Sydney to play for the Inter-
State Regal Cup, it is hoped to make the
two visits click. Victoria is to be asked to
help with expenses, and if all goes well Aus-
tralia will be able to welcome the first over-
seas water-polo team to splash in these
waters.
* $ * *
“Kippers”: The Amy Johnson spirit is
spreading. Another of the gentler sex who
is to tackle a solo flight to Australia is
Mrs. Victor Bruce, well known as one of
the most intrepid of motor-car and ’cycle
drivers, and as holder of the record for
the cross-Channel run in a motor-boat.
Also she has driven a car further into
Lapland than any other person. On the
face of it, it would appear that Mr. Bruce,
who seems to be a comparatively unknown
person, gets most of his meals out of tins
from the delicatessen store round the corner.
* * * *
“Formula”: The great problem confront-
ing designers of motor-car or aeroplane
engines is the ratio of fuel consumption to
power. Nature is still a long way ahead of
man, in spite of the fact that the ratio has
been and is being constantly reduced.
Some recent American investigations have
shown that, to compete with some birds,
a ’plane engine will have to do 20 miles
on a pint of petrol, and a motor-ear a
hundred. Many instances in connection
with carrier-pigeons weighed before and
after racing are instanced. Perhaps the
best “fuel” performance quoted, however,
is that, of the golden plover, which does a
2400-mile non-stop flight when migrating
on two ounces of fat!
$ $ $ $
“The Gaffer”: A wonderful runner over a
distance is the veteran South African
Arthur Newton, who has in his time run
from everywhere to anywhere over all sorts
of distances. His spins have been done in
South Africa, Britain and the Continent,
and among the records he holds are those for
50 miles (on the road), the London to
Brighton annual go-as-you-please (52 miles),
55 miles and 60 miles. His latest success
was in the 500-mile international relay
race at Montreal. With Peter Gavuzzi, the
English runner, he cut out the run in 48
hours 4 minutes, beating the Yankee team
by nearly 2J hours.
“Differential”: An ingenious American,
who is probably a manufacturer _of or a
dealer in both, asserts that the time is at
hand when the average family man will own
both a car and an aeroplane with one
engine between them. When desiring to
improve the agility of pedestrians the engine
will be fitted to the car. When the owner
aspires to rise to higher things—probably
about the hour the t.-p. collector is due to
call for an instalment on car and ’plane—
he will just pull the jigger out of the car
and drop it into the front of the fuselage,
then taking to the air.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro”: Dr. Peltzer has been sus-
pended for not furnishing accounts of his
expenses during his recent world tour.
None of these tours can be undertaken
on the bare travelling and living expenses
allowed by the international amateur federa-
tion. Peltzer has long been at loggei-heads
with the German authorities, who have
blocked him more than once in the past from
undertaking similar tours abroad. Evidently
suspicion has increased, with the result that
the doctor is on the ice until he can show
a clean balance-sheet.
* * * *
“Backwoodsman”: South Aus., one of the
last States to refuse to bow the neck to the
Baal of standardised “woods,” has now fallen
into line. A special committee has been
formed to see that the regulations are not
dodged, and competition men have to pro-
duce the bowls with which they intend to
play. This is on a par with Bradman being
asked to produce his bat before the Maryle-
bone C. C. or Grimmett being cross-examined
as to whether he faked the ball he was
bowling with.
* * * *
“Birkenhead Park”: Though a rigidly
amateur concern, the English Rugby Union
is probably the richest sporting organisation
in the worl'd. The balance-sheet for last
season shows a sui-plus of £139,261, exclud-
ing the Twickenham ground, valued at
£94,000, and £45,000 on loan to clubs to
enable them to acquire their own grounds, the
Union being secured by mortgages over
these last. Thus the total assets exceed a
quarter of a million. At two internationals
last season takings ran over £12,000, France
helping to draw £12,424, and Scotland
£12,845. The other British Rugby Unions
are also well on the credit side of the ledger,
though not so emphatically.
* * # *
“Stand Off”: Cliff Porter, one of the
finest, as he was certainly the fairest,
of a long line of famous All Black wing-
forwards, is hanging up his football boots.
He was a brilliant captain as well as player;
the unbeaten run of the 1924-25 All Blacks in
Europe was largely due to his generalship.
Porter can claim a unique record, for he has
played with M.L. sides not only against
the four British Unions and France but
against the Springboks, Australia and
N.S.W., to say nothing of games in America
and Canada during tours abroad.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: Au important feature of the
tour of the British Rugby Union team has
been the manager’s discussions with the Aus-
tralian and M.L. unions on the question of
the admittance of the Dominion bodies to the
International Rugby Board, which controls
the game throughout the world. Some years
ago Australia and M.L. made certain altera-
tions in the rules of the game tending to
speed it up. The board sanctioned these for
local use, but demands that the original
rules gs played everywhere else be returned
to if a seat on the intei-national body is
desired. South Africa has always adhered to
the old rules, and there seems no reason
why Australia and M.L. should not return
to them. Indeed, M.L. has practically
decided upon reversion, though this cannot
happen until the next annual meeting of
the M.L. Rugby Union.
* * * *
“Gate”: The English Northern Union is
to be given a good hard smack if it doesn’t
mend its ways. The cause of complaint is
the pinching of players from the N.S.W. and
M.L. Leagues by the English professional
clubs in spite of the fact that the latter have
frequently sworn on a stack of Bibles that
they wouldn’t do so again. If the Northern
Union persists in its piratical practices, the
Australasian bodies threaten to withdraw
their affiliation and cut out interchanges of
visits. It is a brave gesture, but there is so
much money in tours of this kind that
matters are not likely to go beyond that.
* ■ * * *
“Carnoustie”: America is forward with
the latest golf idiocy. One Layhorp,
described as a University student, took a
wager from a mate that he would do 18 holes
under a hundred in less than an hour. He had
never broken 90 previously, but he won with
a card of 88 on the Springdale course, which
totals 6186 yards. He ran between every
shot and used two caddies, one forward to
locate his ball and the other to carry and
tee-up for the next drive. The man who
laid the odds rode round the course on a
bicycle with the player to check his card, so
there could have been no hanky-panky.
Layhorp holed out 10 minutes ahead of the
allotted time, and thus covered three miles
and a half in 50 minutes, playing good golf
the while.
* * * *
“The MeHaggis”: The female golfer is
notoriously as indifferent to the rules of
the game as is the female bridge-player. I
am now in a position to state the reason
for the retirement of the Duchess of Eccle-
fechan from the club to which I have the
honor to belong. The truth, long kept out
of the society press, is that the Duchess, find-
ing her ball in a bad lie. surreptitiously
kicked it into a better position according to
immemorial feminine practice. Unhappily, she
made a mistake, the ball being that belonging
to the Countess of Peebles. The Coun-
tess claimed the ball and took the hole with
a birdie, thus winning the match played
between the two for 3d. the round and the
loser to buy the Caddie a penny all-day
sucker. It was then that her Grace gave
way to an expression of her feelings which
resulted in the immediate resignation of 17
caddies and her own departure from the
club. The minutes recording her Grace’s
remarks have been expunged from the club
records.


A morning’s house-work
earns a good lunch.
x;
-;ms
n
m
r
\
X
=«
s
An
mm
Dear Housewife,
A morning's hard work completed—
a reluctance to start again and face
the bother of preparing a proper lunch
for yourself—REXTYE to the rescue 1
No trouble —a }4lb can of REX-PYE,
some lettuce, or mint sauce or a tomato
—the tasty sustaining lunch you need !
There is probably enough, too, to make
wholesome meat sandwiches for those
of the family who go to work or school.
REX-PYE in jelly is delicious. It is the
finest meat in the world.
Yours very sincerely,
REX.
gdf
g
fg
REX-PYE
In Boz.y 12oz. and 16oz. hygienic cans
GO ITT JO MELS PTV. I_TD.
Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon
HOT POT WITH REX-PYE.
lib. Rex-Pye, 1 large onion, pepper and salt,
3 or 4 potatoes peeled and sliced. Mash Rex-Pye,
add minced onion and pepper and salt to taste.
Place in greased piedish and moisten with a little
gravy. Make a top layer with potatoes, dredge
on a little flour and cook in moderate oven.
REX-PYE TURNOVERS.
lib. tin of Rex-Pye, Boz. flour, 4oz. Rex
dripping, pepper and salt, 1 egg. Mash Rex-Pye
and season to taste. Put flour in bowl with pinch
of salt and mix, add dripping and rub well
through. Make a hole in centre and mix with
water to a stiff paste. Turn on to well-floured
board, roll out, cut in rounds; place a little Rex-
Pve on half the round, moisten the edges, fold
over the other half, press edges together, brush
with beaten egg and fry in deep dripping.
Note: If preferred, place on greased baking-tin
and cook in hot to moderate oven.
REX-PYE DORMERS.
lib. tin of Rex-Pye, 2oz. Rex dripping, 2 cups
boiled rice, 1 egg, pepper and salt, crisp bread-
crumbs. Mash Rex-Pye, add dripping, rice,
pepper and salt to taste, and mix well. Roll up
as sausages, brush over with beaten egg, cover in
breadcrumbs, fry in deep dripping to a rich
brown.
REX-PYE DUTCH CUTLETS.
lib. tin Rex-Pye, 1 onion, 1 cupful bread-
crumbs, pepper, salt, 1 yolk of egg, 1 cup brown
gravy. Mix together Rex-Pye, breadcrumbs,
minced onion, salt and pepper to taste and lastly
the beaten yolk of egg. Flatten out oval shape
and place in greased piedish with slices of Rex
bacon laid on top. Add gravy, cover over with
greased paper and bake in moderate oven for 1
hour. Ten minutes before taking out remove
paper.
Excellent
Recipes
CURRIED REX-PYE.
Fry in fat 1 onion cut in pieces until lightly
browned, then add 1 dessertspoonful curry
powder, 1 tablespoonful flour, and fry for two
minutes; then add 1 cupful boiling water, 1 apple,
a few raisins according to taste, and let simmer
for 15 minutes. Cut Rex-Pye into lin. pieces and
pour mixture of curry over Rex-Pye.
REX-PYE RISSOLES.
Cut the Rex-Pj'e into lin. cubes, flour each
piece separately and dip in batter, then fry
in deep, clean fat. To make batter: Mix 1 cup
flour with 1 egg and 3 tablespoonsful milk. Add
salt to taste. Mix thoroughly until smooth.
MEAT CUTLETS WITH REX-PYE.
6oz. Rex-Pye, 1 onion, pepper and salt, gravy,
6oz. flour, 2oz. Cowslip butter, 1 yolk of egg, 1
cup water. Mash Rex-Pye with fork, add onion
minced or chopped fine, loz. of butter, gravy,
pepper and salt to taste. Put flour in basin, rub
in remainder of butter, make a hole in centre,
add beaten yolk of egg and water, and w T ork into
paste. Roll out thin, divide into six pieces, put
some of the mixture on each, form into cutlets
and fry in deep dripping.
REX-PYE POTATO PUFFS.
Rex-Pye, cold boiled potatoes, flour, egg,
parsley, pepper and salt. Mash Rex-Pye with
fork, add pepper and salt to taste. Make a
paste of potatoes (mashed), flour, and a well-
beaten egg; roll out on well-floured board and
cut into round shapes. Place some Rex-Pye on
one half, sprinkle with chopped parsley, fold
over the other half, pinch neatly round edges
and fry in deep dripping until a rich, light brown.
REX-PYE IN MINT JELLY.
1 tin Rex-Pye, 2 dessertspoonsful gelatine,
2 tablespoonsful chopped mint, 2 tablespoonsful
vinegar, 1 lettuce, 2 tomatoes, 1 pint clear stock.
Warm the stock and dissolve in it the gelatine,
then add the mint and vinegar. Cut the Rex-Pye
into fingers lin. thick. Build up the finger-
lengths crosswise in a mould. Pour the mixture
over them. Put aside to set. Arrange some of
the lettuce leaves on a dish. Turn the jelly on
to the bed of lettuce and garnish with finely
shredded lettuce and sliced tomatoes.
REX-PYE CROQUETTES.
Cut the Rex-Pye into finger-shaped strips,
then roll each strip separately through flour and
repeat through a beaten egg and lastly through
breadcrumbs. Fry in hot fat about 4 minutes.
Serve hot with tomato sauce.
REX-PYE CHIPOL.
Roll Rex-Pye into small balls about 16 to the
pound. Cover with mashed potatoes, then place
the rolls separately into flour, beaten egg and
breadcrumbs; then fry for six minutes. Serve
hot with tomato sauce or gravy.
A DINNER PREPARED FROM REX-PYE.
Prepare puff-pastry in circle form, with centre
large enough to place contents of lib. Rex-Pye.
Make a mixture as follows: Cut 1 onion, 1 carrot
and 1 turnip into small squares and fry in little
fat until lightly brown. Add 1 tablespoonful
flour and fry until dark brown; add 2 cupsful
of either stock or boiling water and let simmer
until vegetables are cooked. Heat lib. tin
Rex-Pye, open, and place in centre of pastry, then
pour gravy and vegetables over Rex-Pye. Serve
hot.
REX-PYE KROMSKIES.
lib. tin of Rex-Pye, 2oz. Cowslip butter, 2oz.
flour, 1 pint gravy, 1 small onion, parsley, pepper
and salt. Melt butter in saucepan, sift in flour,
pepper and salt, stir off the fire until smooth. Add
gravy, chopped onion and parsley, and bring to
boil, stirring all the time. Add Rex-Pye which
has been mashed with fork, cook for 10 minutes,
then turn out on dish to cool. When cool take
the mixture a little at a time, form into sausage
shape, roll a thin slice of Rex bacon round,
dip in batter and fry in deep dripping.
ABERDEEN SAUSAGE WITH REX-PYE.
lib. tin of Rex-Pye, 2 cups breadcrumbs, 1
dessertspoonful Worcester sauce, 1 egg, pepper and
salt. Mix Rex-Pye, breadcrumbs, sauce and
pepper and salt (to taste) well together. Add
egg well beaten and mix again thoroughly. Form
into roll. Dip pudding-cloth in boiling water,
wring nearly dry, spread it well with flour; roll
up sausage, tie at each end and loosely in
centre. Place in saucepan of boiling water and
cook for 2 hours. When cooked remove cloth,
cover with crisp breadcrumbs and leave to cool.
These Recipes are from the REX Recipe Book.
Write for the book, and mention “The Bulletin.”


THE
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
214 Gecrge Street, Sydney.
BENGER’S
®FOOD®
Bod. Trade Mark.
Food
At Bedtime!
Benger’s Food makes a
delicious supper dish, soothing,
sleep-inducing and very
nourishing. It is also the best
light diet for all digestive
troubles.
From a Doctor: —
“Benger’s Food is the finest thing
to go to bed on.”
Write for booklet to: —BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGEK’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
Under'
Royal
Warrant.
dfg
ToH.NL
Kin§
GeorgeV
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
(
MeslleiieA
iim
AustVataelan Agents
S wift & Company Li' mitai
SYDNEY.
Champagne
'iarleslleidsiec**
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian A "Tor is—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER.
More and more it looks as though a second
spring is coining to the middle-aged bache-
lor and widower of substance. There is a
falling off in the membership of the expen-
sive clubs, making it possible for a man
who was half-way down the long waiting
list to see the doors opening for him. Youth
these nights doesn’t crowd the trams and
taxis armed with best girls and tickets for
the most expensive shows. Youth is mostly
either out of a job or suffering from a cut
in salary; and comfortable middle-age can
hop in where the jobless fear to tread. Still,
the best girls are not afraid of waiting!
Hymen is among the rationed workers
these days, too, though Cupid is bound to
woi’k overtime once languorous September
rounds the night to a valley of dreams. Wed-
dings are being postponed with great regu-
larity, and bungalows that had been born
to be love-nests for two are weeping into
their pocket-handkerchief lawns over the
fate that will shortly populate them with
two or more economising families.
When you get an invitation to an after-
noon party this coming summer, it may be
necessary to ring up your hostess with the
query: “Longs or shorts?” If the occasion
be formal, according to Ascot ruling we
will sally forth in frocks ground-long and
wide-sweeping, topped by an outsize in
hats, its front brim as uprearing as an un-
broken colt. If the fun of the afternoon
be tennis or bathing, then you arrive in
shorts covered by a discardable skirt. If
"Fancy meeting you!”
yoxx want to be ultra-smart, you peel off
your socks also. Some of these shorts are
just an abbreviation of the divided skirt of
grandmother’s day. For regular beach
parade the bell-bottomed pyjamas are the
knuttiest wear. These swell out from the
knee, after the style of a Jack Tar’s, only
more so.
Fashion, despite the authorities, is dis-
tinctly wobbly. Though the long and billowy
confections now hold the stage, woman still
remembers the agility possible in the knee-
high kilt. Most of the young dancing men,
too, are beginning to believe they preferred
the knees and ease. And when Adam and
Eve think the same thing, they are able to
cut the figleaf to the desired shape. In less
than two years, this Letter believes, the long,
unhygienic, elastic-armoi’-necessitating mode
of the moment will be as dead as Dodo.
With the arrival of long flowing frocks to act
as brakes, dancing loses the weight-reducing
qualities which made it the joy of the middle-
aged man with the bowler-hat front. Accord-
ing to the cables, leading dancing teachers
declare that the Blackbottom and the Charles-
ton will be supplanted by graceful, slower
movements. Five hundred of these masters of
motion have decided that the leading new
step is to be the University Drag. It is a
winding, walking step, danced to slow two-
four tempo. The girls in their flowing-
raiment are said to suggest a trailing boat
tacking gi-acefully against the wind. That’s
all right. But suppose the boy-friend has
been drinking red wine, while the other man
in the party has been sipping a creme de
mentlxe, the one might reckon the wind was
blowing to port, while the other, would
believe it blew to starboard—well, in such
a case a collision seems imminent.
The musicians’ revel will be . the final
movement in Mxxsic Week. David Jones’s
ballroom on Friday night will echo to every
note on the scale, and all combinations
thereof. Characters are many and expen-
sive. Elsie Prince, Gus Bluett, Cecil Kella-
way and other notables will enliven the pro-
ceedings. In addition to Cyril Coy, the regu-
lar conductor of David Jones’s dance orches-
tra, Albert Cazabon, Howard Carr, E. J.
Roberts (Australian Broadcasting Co.) and
Will Prior will take turns at the joy stick.
The other afternooix this Letter met its
fi-iend Mr. Flaherty potteriixg about the bit
of front lawn common to the flats in which
he lives, and complaining bitterly to any-
body who would listen. A small girl with
two plaits and a music-case had just come
slirinkingly down the path, and this had
set him off about Music Week. “See that
kid!” he commanded me. “Well, she lives
next door and practises two hours every
day, and it’s the same pieces over and over
again till I’m gibbering. I say to her
mother, ‘Can’t the girl play something dif-
ferent?’ and her mother tells me I don’t
understand; she’s getting xxp a repertwar.
Well, I don’t know what kind of a war
that is. but she’s due to start some sort of
trouble if ever they let her loose on the world.
On the other side of me there’s a lad plays
the fiddle. In them flats the other side
of the fence, right on a line with my bed-
room window, thei-e’s a man who is a thwarted
tenor. Night, noon and morning he’ll be
at it. But yesterday, being Sunday, I got
a good one on to him without knowing it.
As early as seven I heard him screeching
and groaning and trying a few notes
I’d never heard before. Well, for half an
hour between me dozes I'd be hearing the
same song without words. At last ‘Opera or
oratorio,’ I said to the wife, ‘the feller’s
got to let me get to sleep, and me a night
watchman.’ So I flung up the window,
shouting out at him, ‘Shut up yer singing,
you cracked Caruso!’ and the poor creature
nearly fell stunned to the ground. For it
wasn’t him singing at all; he was using the
lawumower!.... Music Week!” The curl on
Mr. Flaherty’s nose as he said those last
two words -would have turned Gus Bluett
green with envy.
The belles of St. Mary’s trilled and
gurgled joyously in David Jones’s ballroom
oix a night last week, and at one o’clock
next morning not a tongue was cracked, not
a peal run down, judging by the joyousness
of the last dance of all. The ball was in aid
of the funds of the cathedral, and drew,
besides the very young, a group glittering
with Papal decorations, Dean Ci’owley (ad-
ministrator of the cathedral) and Mon-
signor Peoples. Of those honored by Rome
were Dame Mary Barlow, Miss K. Egan and
Mark Sheldon’s lady. Both the former drew
exquisite lace shawls across their shoulders,
and wore the soft and voluminous black
chiffons of the moment. Black, too, was
the raiment of Mark Sheldon’s lady, and in
the official party the gold sequins crusting
Mayoress Hilda Marks’s black laces brought
joy to the heart. For, say Paris wliat it
will, while black individually looks striking,
black in a group looks stricken. The great
choirmaster Pettorelli beamed on the
assembly. Mrs. G. McGirr burst on the eye
like a golden sunset, blonde Daisy Claytoix
brought an out-size party and wore clover-
pink moire, Mary Brigham trailed sapphire-
blue laces, the D’Apices brought friends, and
the secretary, who had successfully rounded
up nearly 600, was the untiring Mrs. J. M.
Dodds.
An eminent K.C.’s occasional spats are
immaculate and his trousers are creased to
the perfection of correctness. He does not
unbend even when he takes his dog, an Irish
terrier, for a walk. One day last week, as
the two set forth, they met the garbage man
on his rounds. He was just flinging back
an empty dustbin with that fine joy of life
which seems to animate all garbageers, and
“A dawg is a fine excuse, sir!”
the exultation of the frenzied duet he had
evoked between can and asphalt yai-d was
still upon him. He looked with approval
from Mr. K.C. to Mr. Iv.C.’s companion.
“Good little dawg!” he said conversation-
ally, stooping to pat the terrier. “I like
dawgs,” he added, turning to the K.O. He
paused a moment for reflection; then he
added in a confidential whisper; “A dawg’s a
fine excuse for gettin’ aw r ay from the hoxxse
when the wife starts naggin’, ain’t he?”
This Letter found a number of its summer
acquaintances disporting at David Jones’s
the other night. But at first the difference
between a sun-tanned girl last seen in her
bathers axxd the same girl in full undress
complete with wixxter pallor was rather over-
whelming. The State’s Amateur Swimming
Associations, male and female, combined for
this plunge, and the money goes to the 1932
Olympic fund. Mrs. Hugh D. Mclntosh was
president of the dance, and Hugh himself
turned xxp at the table at which she dis-
pensed something a bit more elaborate than
pot-luck. The Mayoral Markses were in
this party, Miss Marks’s periwinkle-blue
velvets being something to remember.
Phyllis Fuller added black txxlle crusted with
gold to the official dress parade. Mary Durack
kept famous sister Fanny company, and no
fewer than 60 swimming clubs were repre-
sented. A large shoal of mermen and mei'-
maids came iix from Bondi, and with them
treasurer B. R. Galland threw in his lot.
Gi’andmother was telling how she had
received her proposal of marriage by letter
from the lover who had come to Australia;
and it took nearly six months, although she
replied straight away, for her answer to
get to Sydney.
I ix s p i ration
flashed upon
the young
man wlio Loved
her grand-
daughter, now
making a tour
of Europe. He
had a care-
fully prepared
proposal o f
marriage done
on a gramo-
phone record,
and the air-
mail services
—a 1t h o ugh
still waiting
to be bi’idged
between Aus-
tra 1 i a and
Karach i—
whisked the
Fifteen minutes at 8d. a
second.
message in his own voice so quickly to his
lady-love’s address that the cabled answer
he had begged for flashed back to him inside
a month.
And now this Letter is waiting to hear
of the first “proposal” by wireless telephone.
But the young maix had better not rush
lightly ixito this plaix. With his eye wan-
dering to the clock, he still may hate to
hurry the lady, although every time the
second-hand clicks bang goes eightpence!
The Blaxland Galleries said good-bye to
all this last week, for Prince Alfred’s flutter
was the final ball of the seasoxx, so far as
the Blaxland is concerned. The medicoes
and their best girls turned up in great style,
and, notwithstanding unpaid bills for opera-
tions, the girls contrived to look just as well
dressed as ever. John McKclvey’s lady, of
course, was one of the pointed-out. Her
frock was of black tulle, very long and bil-
lowy, and the bodice showed the lxew modesty
touch, the back, though transparent, being
filled in. The Cecil Pursers, acting-matrou
Lowe, medical-superintendent Bye and other
bigwigs of the. institution hobnobbed. Pretty
Dr. Lucy McMahon wore satins which sug-
gested a cool lager. Joy Wilson swirled red
and white, and Betty Loewenthal shone like
a rath primrose at her brother’s table.
Audrey Hordern emerged charming from blue
velvets, and Maybelle Markell’s dahlia-red
tulles were not despised nor rejected of men.
In the 300 dancers was every one of P.A.’s
honorary and resident medical officers who
could get a night off, and the hall rever-
berated when the whole company burst into
the special song of the Prince Alfred doctors.
Every day and in every way Sydney gets
prouder of Chief Railway Commissioner
Cleary. Last week another story of his kind-
liness blushed to the light, and though to
you and me and the graziers he may seem
an implacable man of business, to 25 little
ones in the C. of E. home at Leura he’s
the kindest fairy-godfather in the world.
Four years ago he met them, and ever since
he has* been writing to them and they to
him. He remembers each one’s birthday, and
at Christmas there’s a tree with presents
for everybody. It was the twelfth annual
meeting of the C. of E. Homes that Mr.
Cleary told of the cool and fragrant valley
of friendship he had discovered, and it was
at this meeting, presided over by Chief
Justice Street, that it was decided that the
hoxnes and hostels run by the C. of E. com-
mittee should amalgamate with the C. of E.
Homes at Carlingford. Economy and effi-
ciency will, it is claimed, be increased
thereby.
Chryssa Chrichton-Imrie, who is busy help-
ing to introduce the Plunkett system of baby-
feeding into “the East,” was in Shanghai for
a conference on child welfare. But even the
affable Chryssa found, like Omar, there was
a gate through which she might ixot pass. In
this case it was crossing the boundary into
Chinese territory which gave Miss Imrie the
fright of her life. She had been invited
to be the guest of Miss Hood, at the Mar-
garet Williamson Hospital, for tiffin. When
her car-driver reached the boundary he told
the Sydney woman he had no Chinese
license, and passed his fare over to a rickshaw
man, who half-way down a narrow street
was ordered by a score of coolies to stop.
Just as Miss Imrie was ordered out of her
rickshaw, a car was passing. Chryssa shouted
for help, and a chivalrous Japanese came to
her aid, giving hex* a lift in his car and the
coolies a handful of paper money. Then Miss
Imrie found herself escorted by naval guards
to her destination. And that sounds as
though it were worth while, doesn’t it?
Of the multitude of Sydney citizens who
have attended the Grand Opera House to
see what Miss Egerton Jones’s play, “Gover-
nor Bligh,” made their forebears do, the
members of the family of Chief Justice
Philip Street were as interested as any.
The hero of the play, if it has one, is
Lieutenant Lawson, who was the Chief Jus-
tice’s grandfathei*. The C.J. took a grand-
daughter with him on the night he attended
the show.
One young man who has not been fright-
ened off the diamonds by hard times is
George Merivale. His engagement to Nella
Levy is almost brand-new. Nella’s father
is Dr. A. L. Levy. George is a brother
of clever and kindly Rose Merivale, who for
a number of years directed the Havilah and
other C. of E. homes—which, by the way,
there is talk of also uniting.
A bride of the week who sought St.
Mary’s was Mynn Staggs, of Bourke. Her
bridegroom was Donald Stuart Hirst, of
Doncaster (Eng.), her maid Lilian Davis,
and her flower-scatterer baby Hall. The
three girls were like gems on a chain in
their white, mauve and green and pink. The
gold was supplied by their flower decorations.
Reception at Usher’s.
A powder-blue chiffon ensemble collared
in squirrel, sprayed with orchids and topped
by a tiny blue straw turban, was worn by
the blue-eyed Mrs. F, E. Honey for her wed-
ding. This took place at St. Stephen’s, after
which the bride was addressed as Mrs. Byi-on
Beams. Margaret Honey, one of the season’s
pretty debs., attended her mother, suggesting
a lily of the valley in her white and delicate
green turnout. After the wedding, the small
group of guests returned to the home of the
bride’s brother, E. P. Houghton, which has
been her home, too, for some time, and here
Mrs. Beans did the honors. The wedding
rounded off a board-ship meeting and friend-
ship. (As the Sydney market is very dull,
with no sign of early improvement, what
about taking a steamer ticket?)
The gentlemen who are making a bi’idge
for us illuminated it the other two evenings,
and for the first-time-ever we had a string
of lights completely arching our hai’bor. Now
the arch has been finished, the work of sus-
pending the bridge itself will soon put an
end to the doubts of the dear old ladies
who didn’t believe a motor-car let alone a
“They could grow creepers on it.”
railway train would ever be able to clamber
up so steep a rise. But even the making of
the bridge won’t remove one lady’s objections.
Viewed from the window of her flat it “looks
so bare,” wherefore she invited this Letter
to a cup of tea the other afternoon so that
she might make a suggestion that flowering
creepers should be grown over it. But in
thse distressful times why not edible beans
and peas? Or tomatoes?
Slim press-girl Mary Phillips decided the
other week that matrimony offered a more
romantic career than newspaper work. She
therefore plucked her quill from behind her
ear, stabbed a wedding veil into position and
became Mrs. Denis Flemming. Her future
home will be on Denis’s farm at Moss Vale.
Mary herself comes from that same bit of
the State, where the girls grow roses in
their cheeks as bright as any their Maoriland
cousins can boast. The wedding is the cul-
mination of a school-day friendship. Denis
is the son of Claude Flemming, the well-
known actor.
Don’t forget the Playbox Cabaret on
Friday night. Among the attractions will
be a vaudeville show and a continental sup-
per served with caper sauce.


MOOO(kwc4««>v»
,^TwmfTi'nnmiiffffniinnflnfiiiiiiiiiinniiiiiiii l $
I!
Why risk unpleasant
perspiration odour
r when this hygienic toilet soap TL
j[ purifies the pores —keeps you fresh j
A BUSY day, a hot, stuffy room, the embarrassing
hint of perspiration odour.
How quickly we notice it in others yet often we
may be guilty ourselves and never know it.
And perspiration odour is a year round problem.
Even on cool days when we don’t seem to
perspire at all the pores constantly give off odour-
causing waste.
Yet there’s no excuse for risking perspira-
tion odour now. Just use Lifebuoy. Lifebuoy
is so refreshing that it’s a joy to bathe with it
every day. It purifies pores gives lasting
freedom from embarrassing odour.
Those suffering from odour due to under-
arm perspiration or perspiring feet will
especially welcome the purifying action of
Lifebuoy’s deodorising lather.
So good for the complexion!
Lifebuoy is remarkably soothing and beneficial to
the skin. Its purifying lather keeps complexions
clear, fresh, satin-smooth. Millions use it for skin
health alone.
But Lifebuoy is far more than just a fine toilet soap.
<s*<?
Its penetrating, healthful lather removes germs as well
as dirt. “Even if your hands look clean,” says a pro-
minent medical authority, “they may be covered with
germs.” Lifebuoy helps protect you and your family
from the 27 germ diseases that hands may spread.
You’ll like its clean, hygienic scent
Lifebuoy is so different from other toilet and bath
soaps that even its scent is different. Not a
perfume, but a clean, pleasantly hygienic
scent which tells you that Lifebuoy gives
greater protection.
Even before you’ve finished your first cake,
you’ll learn to love this cleanest of all soap
scents, which quickly evaporates after rinsing.
Without its deodorant, Lifebuoy would still
be a wonderful toilet soap —but you wouldn’t
get the added protection.
Added safety —no extra cost
Lifebuoy assures greatest health protection and
freedom from perspiration odour —yet costs no
more , probably less, than the toilet soap you now use.
Lifebuoy is orange-red, the colour of its pure palm-
fruit oils. You can get it wherever soap is sold.
Vtfebuoy
Health Soap
for hands face bath
LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED
fly >■
0
for toilet
and bath


THE BEST WASHING RIBBON.
There is even a best in Ribbons, there-
fore make sure you get Cash’s Washing
Ribbons for Shoulder Straps and all
Lingerie. Cash’s Washing Ribbons do
not break or fray, and need never be
removed from the garment, as they come
out of the wash like new. Obtainable in
many dainty shades. Ask your Draper.
dfg
TO MARiTTOrUNEN/
Are Indispensible to Every Home.
Absolutely Fadeless and Durable.
“A Few Stitches and They’re on.”
Actual Size, Style No. 6
SOLD BY AU BEST DRAPERS.
'Write for Name Style Circular to
1 & T fAQH AUSTRALIAN
J Gl *3m v/luily WEAVING CO PTY LTD
85 CUBITT ST.. RICHMOND MELB
7/6
6d
-y/
3d
02.
3/6
Wentworth Hotels New Tariffs
Single Room, Bed and Breakfast, from 12/6
Single Room, Bath, Bed and Breakfast, from 157-
Single Room, Inclusive, from 20 / *
Single Room, with Bath, Inclusive, from . . . 22/6
Double Rooms are charged at Double Rates.
Private Suites Quoted on Application.
EVERY SATURDAY.
Dinner Dances, from 7.30
Supper Dances, from 8.30
Or a la Carte.
Afternoon Tea Dansant, from 3.30 . .
S7?e WENTWORTH
Church Hill, Sydney
12/6
8/6
3/-
"The cen/ne of Queens/crnc/s
’ cf/s/tnputsfacf Soc/o/ Lire .
IVmunrß
motel
RDT«R
BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
dfg
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s , Brisbane.
Telefhone, Central 83211 —6 Line*.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Cliznbethan
Tea Rooms
[?] Contral 800 for [?]
Buckley [?]Nunn, Limited
[?]
That blushful sign “Women Only” domi-
nated a mannequin display of undies staged
in the Venetian Court of the Australia one
afternoon last week, but the sybilline atmo-
sphere was a little impaired by continual
inrushes of male waiters bearing trayloads
of tea and cakes and—er —other refresh-
ments. The clothes-poles were almost all
blondes, slim, beauteous and smiling. The
waiters did not blush. There was nothing
on view to encarmine the cheek of a St.
Anthony. In fact, lingerie of the latest mode
is puritanical compared with the ballroom
frocks of last season. The young ladies,
however, made their entry wrapped in big
Spanish shawls and let these slip at dis-
creet intervals. The pretties, in delightful
pastel shades, had dressing-jackets or -gowns
to match. The magpie effect was featured
in pyjamas of nautical cut with a jumper
of white, trousers of black and a short
coat. Another sleeping-suit contrasted black
and lemon and was cut on pierrot lines. A
nightie designed for a bridal trousseau was
made of white satin with an ecru lace cor-
sage, in which was tucked a wee posy of
orange buds. The show wound up with a
vision of dainty bathing suits and coats and
caps to match. One in white and red wool
was most admired.
At George’s parade of spring and summer
finery last week, actress Jessica Harcourt
was chief mannequin. Among the most
attractive apparel shown were frocks for the
flapper and the schoolgirl, fashioned in
muslin and organdie of pastel shades. Fas-
cinating adjuncts to these dresses were large
hats of the material, wreathed with flat
flowers, or embroidered in floral designs in
wool. Returned to popularity this spring is
the wee puff sleeve, as well as that which
descends to the wrist. As at other clothes
displays of the last couple of weeks, the
model gowns at this Collins-street house
combined in their design features culled
from many periods. The lengthy lines and
trailing draperies of pre-war days were
allied to the high waist of the Empire days.
There was the princess robe in early Vic-
torian style, and another which was after
the crinoline mode of a few years further
back, both adapted to 1930 figures. There
were lace gowns for evening or day wear
with short coats. The cape was prevalent,
and black-and-white contrasts were well
represented. Hats with brims have come
back, with saucy and becoming curves and
twists. Flowers or a soft bow of ribbon
nestled beneath turned-up eaves. Some of
the straws were of the finest of texture, look-
ing like thin canvas, and others, of a coarser
weave, had a lacquer finish.
The weather was all that human beings
could desire for the Yarra Glen-Lilydale
Hunt Club's race-meeting at Moonee Valley,
and the district’s followers of the hounds
rolled np in force. Dr. A. JG. Syme, master,
F. B. Lithgow, president, and Harry Supple,
secretary, led the bunch of ofiiciais. Mrs.
Syme, the Charlie Mitchells, George Arm-
strong and his wife, she in a grey cloth
tailored suit, Mrs. J. Bell and daughter
Peggy, and Walter Hutton and his brother
represented the countryside around Dame
Melba’s old home. Wilma Clarke was
smartly turned out in sports raiment of
checked fawn and brown jersey tweed. Mrs.
John Merrillees, in an ensemble outfit of
fancy woollen material blending tints of
blue and gold, completed her color-scheme
with a blue fel_ hat and necklace of amber.
Gwen Johnston’s horse Indicate won the
club steeplechase. She gathered in a cup
almost large enough to serve as a tub for a
Christmas-tree. J. J. Carlson, by riding the
winner, notched his fifth win this season at
hunt club meetings. Dr. Syme, wdiose horses
are raced under the name of S. A. Rawdon,
also had a win. Many regular patrons of
the Valley were there, among them Mrs.
W. Rogers Thomson and daughter Kathleen,
Mrs. Ben Chaffey, who has since returned to
her station home for a couple of weeks ; Mrs.
Gus Hiskens, Mrfe. A. V. Hiskens and Miss
Cox.
At the St. Kilda Plaza on Thursday the
present-day students of Xavier College staged
a dance for the school’s memorial chapel
fund. Of course the mothers, sisters, aunts
and feminine cousins of the boys really
engineered the hop, and they must have put
a lot of energy into it, for the attendance
totalled close on a thousand. Mrs. T. J.
Ryan, president of the committee, received
a bouquet from the lads, and her co-workers
contributed a shoulder spray of white blos-
soms to cheer her black chiffon draperies.
Secretarial duties were shared by Mollie
Warden, who danced in ivory taffeta; Elinor
Wren, in white georgette; and Cath Cooke,
whose chiffon gown and coat were patterned
in pink. One of the most striking frocks had
a long bodice of lime-yellow satin that
melted into a black chiffon flounce, with a
couple of black velvet roses to mark the
waist line. Jill Ryan’s daiuty frock of tiered
mode was of wffite satin and gold-spotted
tulle. A lengthy tunic of white satin linked
to deep frills of tulle topped by a garland
of white satin roses graced Pat Lightfoot.
Mary Capel, a visitor from Ballarat, chose
blue. Mrs. W. G. Crosbie, a vice-president,
who wore a lovely gown of flesh-pink lace,
brought her daughter Isabel, whose reseda-
green taffeta had a transparent hem. Nancy
Baird, the flautist, who is shortly to go to
Europe for study, sported tourmaline pink.
The Overseas League gave a hop last
week to augment its funds. The secretaries
were Mrs. L. J. Newstead, who danced in
lettuce-green lace; Miss F. M. Hughes, in
ivory taffeta; and Miss A. E. Barringer,
whose georgette attire was figured in shades
of blue, mauve and orange. The lower hall
of the Town Hall was the scene of the
dance, which was staged in cabaret style
with a garnishing of fancy caps and other
trifles. Lieut.-Col. T. W. White, with Mrs.
White, whpse frock was of pale lilac georg-
ette, the Felix Lloyds, Mrs. H. S. K. Ward
and Dr. and Mrs. Kenneth Adamson were
among the patrons.
The Architectural Students’ Society had
their dance at Admiralty House. Horace J.
Tribe, president; J. C. Barton, hon. sec.;
Margery Cader, whose robe was of white
georgette; and a couple of other members
managed the hop. The dressing was on the
latest lines, with a plenitude of capes and
dangling pieces. The J. F. D. Scarboroughs
were guests of honor, the lady blending lace
and satin of coral pink tint. Proceeds go
to the Uni. Atelier Scholarship fund.
; The Y.W.C.A. was the beneficiary of a
dance given by the debutantes’ association of
the P.L.C. last week, when 150 couples took
the floor at Scots’ Church Hall. Representa-
tives of the P.L.C. Old Girls’ Association
included the president, Mrs. Colin Mac-
donald, in black-and-pink patterned draperies,
and the hon. sec., Mrs. A. L. Abbott, whose
gown was a blending of reseda-green taffeta
and georgette. Doris Moore, in almond-
green georgette, and Bernice Swaine, in
flowered chiffon, were secretaries.
A dance of last w T eek was that of the offi-
cers of the Australian Army Service Corps,
the field of action being St. Ivilda Town
Hall. The C. 0., Col. D. D. Paine, was
accompanied by his wife, whose flowered
ninon gown had an undulating hem-line.
Mrs. Henley, in deep blue georgette, accom-
panied her colonel. Captain Randle was
hon. sec. of the hop. Among the guests of
honor were General Chauvel and his lady,
she in grey with a glimmer of silver, and
Col. and Mrs. W. P. Farr.
Back in Australia after some years of
absence is the widow of the much-travelled
Carlyle Smythe, who is visiting her sister’s
station home
in the Hamil-
ton district.
Mrs. Smythe’s
late husband
is well remem-
bered as an
e n t repreneur
who brought
a succession of
musicians,
enter tainers
and celebrity-
lecturers t o
these parts.
The lady, who
speaks fout
languages,
spends most of
her time in
foreign parts,
and frequently
fig'ures as the
Austral ian
delegate at
some international conference. She comes
here on this occasion as an apostle of the
World Greeting of Friendship, a movement
begun in Wales in 1922, and which has since
been approved by the League.of Nations.
On a recent evening the Y,W.C.A. sports
department staged at the Auditorium a
sports pageant that ran the gamut of the
ages from fleet-footed Atalanta down to fleet-
winged Amy Johnson. By tableaux, eurhyth-
mies and dance the phases of feminine ath-
letics in a score of ages and climes were
represented by bevies of shapely Australian
girls. Rene Stowe, a herald in white satin
suit and feathered millinery, spoke a little
prologue to each stage in the pageant. A
touch of impish burlesque was introduced
bv the sports girls of 1930, who contrasted
their strenuous pastimes with the gentler
feminine exercises of bygone days.
Members and associates had a dance at
the Kingston Heath Golf Clubhouse last
week, when a grouping of lovely flowers
made a background for the floating draperies
of the new season’s gowns. The president,
Dr. F. L. Trinca, and the secretary, Norman
H. Russell,, directed proceedings. Members
basked in reflected glory, for M. Ryan of
the club wears the State championship
laui’els. Hearty congratulations were piled
upon him.
Pink and purple dominated the color
scheme of the floral decorations chosen by
eight golfing ladies who staged a bridge
party at the Windsor at the week-end, the
principal purpose being to entertain visiting
playei’s. The hostesses woi-e shoulder posies
of primroses and boronia. The holder of the
Australian championship, Miss L. Wray, in
a gown of tomato-red, was accompanied by
her sistei*, Mrs. Slack. Mrs. Nigel Smith,
whose l’ose taffeta frock had a matching
velvet coat, and Mrs. Andi’ew repi'esented
N. S. Wales. Mrs. Britten Jones, in lace of
dalilia-tint, and Margaret Taylor came from
South Australia, and Maoriland sexxt Miss
Rathbone, who had a touch of jade oix a
black net frock. The Apple Isle’s contingent
included Effie Barclay, Betty Sale, in floral
taffeta, Joy Chapman, Enid Reid and Helen
Gray. Among local celebi’ities of the links
who shuffled cai'ds were Mrs. Austin Gate-
house, president of the V.L.G.U., who had
a subdued glitter on her black gown; Mrs.
Alec Russell, in ruby-red geoi-gette; and Rene
Austin, secretary of the Australian Ladies’
Gold Union.
The maiden with the soulful eyes is Lorna
Trist, who the other night shared with John
Simons the
laurels accru-
ing from a
recital of
music for two
pianos. She is
studying for a
Mus. Bac. de-
gree at the
Uni. Co n.,
and has ap-
peared as
soloist with
the Uni. sym-
phony orches-
tra. She is a
pupil of Mr.
Homewood. To
a good techni-
cal equipment
Miss Trist,
who is pic-
tured by a
D i c k i n.eon-
Monteath
camera, adds temperamental gifts and a
dash of individuality.
Mrs. Playle, of the Wentworth Cafe, lent
a picturesque room and provided afternoon
tea one afternoon last week for a bridge-
gathering in aid of the Queen Victoria Hos-
pital. There was a good roll-up of players,
and sales of flowers and sweets helped to
swell the financial return. Mrs. W. M.
Robins, re-elected as president of the auxili-
aries, and Mrs. Russell Gabb were respon-
sible for ticket sales. From Mrs. Norma
Brookes’s garden at Frankston came hun-
dreds of posies of violets that sold briskly.
Among the sales-ladies and stallholders were
Mrs. N. Brookes, president of the hospital;
Adelaide Allan, Mrs. Clarence Weber; Mrs.
A. R. Bain and Mrs. Forbes McKenzie.
The auxiliaries of the Q.V.H. contributed
over £4500 to the institution’s funds during
their latest year.
Memories of the Housewives’ Association’s
civil war in the early part of the year were
revived when Mrs. Percy Russell, all smiles,
stepped up to receive greetings from
her followers on her return from England.
The association has now split into two,
and Mrs. Russell heads one of the halves.
Mrs. A. O. Davies handed over a
huge basket of daffodils and peach blossom,
backed by an illuminated address, which
referred to the lady as “our dear little
presidents’ Mrs. Davies rendered an account
of the executive’s stewardship. Among other
social activities soup kitchens have been
organised with a clientele of 1400 desti-
tute persons per day. Mrs. Russell, looking
better after her holiday, though rather pale
and willowy, wore a trailing robe of
black georgette and a short black velvet coat
collared with white fur. Returning thanks
for her welcome, she commended her fol-
lowers for their efforts to help the un-
employed. She said that she had received
a letter from the other faction, and her
husband intended to deal with it. After the
speechifying there was music and dancing for
a couple of hours. Eileen Castles, in ruby-
hued lace and georgette, sang the “Jewel
Song” from “Faust,” and “Home Sweet
Home,” and Miss A. Levy recited.
The Repertory Society had a good house
for its production of the Shaw play “You
Never Can Tell.” on Saturday. The dress-
ing was attractive and up-to-the-minute in
fashion. Coral Brown wore a pale green
georgette evening frock that suggested a vine
bursting into leaf. The bodice from about
the hip-line developed into a shower of silken
petals that shaded into silvery white. The
wearer, young, tall and willowy, with black
waved coiffure, later graced a black lace
gown, and in another scene wore a white
pin-spotted navy blue marocain with distinc-
tion. Joyce Turner, in a flapper part, sported
a flowered silk frock, and later a gany
embroidered cream cloth coat. Edith Apple-
ton as the firm-minded matron also dressed
her part very smartly. Mutual congratula-
tions were exchanged by players and direc-
tor Frank Clewlow over coffee-cups on the
stage after the show.
Medicoes in the audience of “Little
Accident” at the King’s on Saturday night
furnished some interesting studies in. expres-
sion—mostly of disapproval—but their wives
laughed without restraint as the scientific
view of the way to bring up babies was
ridiculed. The house was crammed, and there
was the usual speech-making and flower show
at the end of the evening. Baby Mac Walker,
three weeks old, received a silver porringer,
and Jim Gerald recited a list of firms who
had sent other presents to the infant in
honor of her d6but. One of the most charm-
ing frocks worn in the play was Mary
Macgregor’s nutmeg-brown georgette, made
with double flat flounces and topped by a
crinoline straw toque. The lido-blue chiffon
gown of Beth Mackey suited her admirably;
and a green ensemble displayed by Zara
Gaden took the eye.
The Loreto Abbey Players had a bit of
bad luck in connection with their per-
formance at the Central Hall for the benefit
of St. Anne’s Hall and the Loreto Free
Kindergarten. The night was foggy, and a
car in which three of the performers were
on their way to the hall met with an acci-
dent. Eileen Fanning was so shaken and
bruised that she was unable to play the
parts allotted to her. Her companions were
able to carry on, and Mary Wilton depu-
tised for the injured player in “ ’Op-o’-Me-
Thumb,” Cassi Duane taking her part in
Pinero’s “Playgoers.” Though Miss Duane
had to read the role of. Beechcroft, the
superior parlor-maid, she did so very enter-
tainingly, and she made the big hit of the
evening in “ ’Op-o’-Me-Thumb,” in which she
was supported by Doris Winter, George
Walton and Frederick Font. Under the
direction of Beatrice Day all went smoothly,
and there were flowers at the final curtain
for the players and for the hon. organiser,
Mrs. D. J. Hoban, and hon sec, Roma Engle-
brecht.
Dr. and Mrs. A. Sheppard Grimwade, of
Geelong, came to Melbourne for the wedding
of their second daughter, Alice, and Henry
James Millar Lowe manager of the Geelong
branch of the E., S. and A. Bank. At St.
John’s, Toorak, Dr. Law, assisted by the
Rev. E. Schweiger, made the two one, and
there were after-rejoicings at Menzies’. The
bride’s gown was ivory satin draped to a
bustle bow, the ends of which spread into
a train. A tulle and Limerick lace veil cas-
caded from a bandeau of orange buds and
pearls. Three 'maids looked summery in
moire of deep biscuit tint with puff sleeves
and lace corsage, fine straw hats and posies
of Duchess of York pansies.
To act as judge in a show of 800 babies
and escape with his life was the diplomatic
feat of Jim Gerald, beloved of vaudeville audi-
ences, who, now that vaudeville is sleeping,
plays a leading role in “The Little Accident”
at the King’s. Requiring an infant for the
title-role, the management advertised for
one, and on a recent morning the vestibule
was crammed with go-carts and perambu-
lators, occupied by babes and sucklings and
a good many youngsters that had been
weaned quite a long while. Jim praised them
all, and explained with tears in his voice
that, while they were all more beautiful than
he ever expected to see this side of Heaven,
the play required one that was just three
weeks old, with black hair. That narrowed
the field, as it proved, to one, and nobody’s
feelings were hurt. The selected leading lady
is Mae Walker, of Nott-street, Port Mel-
bourne.
It is our turn this year to stage the Aus-
tralian women’s amateur golf championships.
The preliminary rounds, played on the Com-
monwealth links, provided some thrilling
contests, and this week the survivors of the
pruning are fighting it out. Leading play-
ers have come from N.S.W., S.A., M.L. and
the Speck, but there are not so many
entrants from outside our borders as in
former years.
Railway Commissioner Clapp’s wife has
joined the ranks of the playwrights. She
has written the libretto for a musical play,
“The Love Step,” scored by Alec Howitt,
which will be produced at the Comedy to
help various charities.
The latest fashion fad for girls is to hold
in the hand, when in evening attire of thin
fabric, a very large handkerchief of the
same material as the frock. At a dance
last week every one of the males, when
pirouetting, sported a flowing back-drapery
of chiffon or lace—his partner’s hanky.
The notion was introduced here by Dora
Maughan, the Tivoli artist.


Without a food your
hair will fall
Modern methods of living make it difficult for
Nature to carry out her work, for we wash
away the natural oil which protects and feeds
the hair.
The lack of this natural oil frequently spells
thin and grey hair, and, often, baldness.
Rowland’s Macassar Oil stimulates the growth
and nourishes the hair while supplying the
necessary oil.
dfg
Of all Chemists,
Stores and
Hairdressers ,
and§
Macassar Oil
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.I.
ENGLAND.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know —from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
fg
f
National
Hotel
BRISBANE
TARIFF RATES—For Rooms Only
Room for one person, from 8/- to 10/- per day.
Room for two persons, from 16/- to 20/- per day.
Room with private bathroom, for one person from
12/6 to 20/- per day.
Room (large), with balcony and private bath, for
two persons, 25/- per day.
Suite, balcony bedroom, sitting room, with
private bathroom, for two persons 30/- per day.
Every Room is equipped with Telephone,
Bedside Light, Hot and Cold Running Water
Conducted on the European plan by—
ROWES LTD.
HOTEL and CAFE PROPRIETORS
Address Manager Write for Illustrated Folder
THIRTY PIECES OF SILVER
By Montague Grover
ILLUSTRATED BY PERCY LINDSAY
Synopsis : In the coastal town of
lllaicarra Jimmy Packmgton, an
orphan, is brought up by Mary West,
a rosy-cheeked spinster so motherly
that she is generally known as "Mrs."
Early she leads him into the habit of
using his head to think with, which
he docs so effectually that he heads
the scholarship list in the local school's
annual examination. His foster
mother, however, is too poor for him
to be able to take advantage of the
free education offering, and Jimmy
begins shovelling at C. J. Grey and
Co.'s cokeworks, where he quickly
wins fame as a boxer. He also attracts
the interest of Basil Wellington, an
Oxford man who is running the local
Guardian," and who coaches him for
night school. While he is at ivork
one day a party which includes Grey
and two daughters and Major Dal-
gety, manager of the Keira Main Coal
Co., comes on a tour of inspection.
Jimmy sees Alma Grey and at once
idealises her as the unattainable. He
meets her some time later, but the
fact that- he is shovelling coke prevents
the girl’s father from encouraging
Jimmy, though Alma and her sister
and Mrs. Grey like him. Jimmy, ivho
has several of his verses published in
a city paper, the radical "Ishrnaelitc,"
subsequently meets May Harland, a
bright, energetic girl, who has con-
verted Mrs. Blessington’s shop in Ilia
wari'a into a paying business. They
become intimate, but she declines to
marry him, telling him that she has
had other lovers and urging him to go
after his ideal girl. However, they
continue to go about together.
CHAPTER XII ( Continued ).
JIMMY’S heart was in his mouth. To dive
into unknown waters, possibly with
a pinnacle rock just below the sur-
face, was sheer lunacy. To his relief he
saw May swimming towards him. But the
shark is more than a possible menace in
unbroken water and he has a way of seek-
ing such coves. Jimmy was trembling with
fear. He grabbed her hand and dragged
her out so anxiously that he scraped her
knees. He was not repentant a bit. He
explained to her the dangers she had run.
“I knew them,” she replied. “I took a
chance. It’s the wild duck blood again,
Jimmy.”
He refused to trust her alone. They
entered the surf together;
The sea was equal to its promise. Despite
the earliness of the season, the water was
warm and the surf behind the break filled
with the tingling aeration that makes it
look like blue champagne and impart the
effervescent joyousness as the sparkling
wine itself.
The shoots were splendid and they held
a merry competition.
“You’re not to let me win, Jimmy; you
must try all you know,” ordered May.
“On your honor.”
“On my honor,” smiled Jimmy, and
together they rose on the next wave, lay
stationary side by side for a second on its
crest and the next were shot forward, head
to head, to skim sandwards as speedily as
a fast sprinter can run.
As he slowed down and lay floating face
downward in the shallows, he heard May
cry triumphantly. “I’ve won.” He raised
his head and saw her standing, all smiles,
five yards further in. It was a great shoot;
where she was standing the water was
just below her knees. They had shot off
together fully sixty yards back.
He looked to where the break was.
“Must be a record, May!”
She nodded. “Mine, I think, anyhow,”
she agreed.
May won the second shoot; then Jimmy
struck form and for six times successively
he finished first.
She pretended to lose her temper, and,
when they started next time they happened
to be swept very close together as they
swooped in on the edge of the roaring
white cataract. As it flattened out, Jimmy
gained a full yard and May grabbed him
before he could pass her, the pair rolling
over and over in the broken water and
finally rising, their mouths and noses full
of water and sand, and both trying to laugh
and cough and sneeze a.t the same time.
The handkerchief and the rubber cap had
been torn from May’s head, and her beauti-
ful. golden hair hung around her shoulders
straight and draggled and the color of
the wet sand beneath their feet.
“Serves me right; it was a dirty trick,
Jimmy, but I couldn’t resist it.”
“Gross misbehavior in the surf. You’d
be fined ten shillings for that at Illawarra,”
retorted Jimmy. “And be warned off the
beach for six months.”
She took him by the arm. “But this
isn’t Illawarra, Jimmy dear. This is Robin-
son Crusoe’s island, the Garden of Eden,
Australia before Captain Cook came, and
you and I are the only people in the whole
world.”
She flung herself on the hot, dry sand.
Patches of sand adhered to wet skin wher-
ever it touched, making her arms and legs
grotesque and repulsive and her costume
dirty and second-hand. Jimmy heaped up
the sand around her until only her head
was showing.
“Oo! I can’t move,” she cried. “Now
I know your wicked design. Too late I
ee the deep laid plot to get rid of me.
But beware, wretched villain, your sin will
ind you out!”
“Ow!” she interrupted herself suddenly,
for. Jimmy, finding one of her feet peeking
out of the sand, had started to tickle her
bare sole.
She scrambled free and, as he ran, chased
him along the beach and into the water,
ducking him thoroughly as he fell.
When they had washed the sand off and
May had given her hair a good soaking in
the clearest water she could find, they
walked up to the rocks, chose a spot where
there was no sand, and, spreading a towel
over the burning surface, waited until ten
minutes of the sun had dried them. Then
they had their lunch.
They bathed again in the afternoon, and
it was not until the sun was half-way
towards the crest of Keira that May left
Jimmy in the water and sat out to dry her
hair properly. Jimmy was still shooting;
he was a glutton for the surf, and it was
difficult to get him away from its fascina-
tions. She waved to him and strolled up
to the rocks.
A few minutes later he followed. He
crossed the sand and climbed the rocks
and for the first time he saw the real May.
She stood combing out her hair, against
the dark brown background of a cavern
with the sun blazing in the west behind
over the summit of the mountain. The
approach of sunset was painting the sur-
rounding sky in fantastic patterns in rose
and grey. As she stood fairly in the sun-
light, the cream of her body seemed to be
luminous within, as if an incandescent lamp
were hanging beside her heart. The slight
breeze was blowing her hair in golden waves
as a background for her face. She was
naked and unashamed, so unashamed that
you forgot her nakedness. You could see
only the woman in her goddess-like beauty.
Jimmy paused.
“What’s the matter, Jimmy?” she laughed.
“I’ve never seen that look on you before.”
He climbed slowly and stood before her.
“I felt,” he faltered lest she might laugh
at him—“l felt as if I should kneel and
pray to you.”
She did laugh. “Keep your prayers for a
woman who’s worth them, Jimmy,” she said.
When they had dressed again and were
leaving she told him of her determination
to get away from Illawarra before Christ-
mas. He had heard her talk of her depar-
ture many times; but this was the first
time a date was mentioned. She explained
that, since Mrs. Blessington had taken her
into partnership, she had been able to
save fifty pounds. Her greatest expenditure
had been five pounds in presents to her
mother and brothers in Bendigo. They
were comfortable and her uncle was un-
grudging, and she had put the rest of the
money in the savings bank. Under the
advice of the organist at Illa.warra and the
other organist who had first taught her
the rudiments of voice-production and lead-
ing, she had determined to save until she
could secure the best possible course obtain-
able in the State. She intended to spend
all the money in tuition and maintain her-
self by other work, as far as her studies
would permit.
Jimmy heard the news sadly. Life with-
out May would not be the same. The
sunlight would be shut out from the Ula-
warra beach. But he could not say a
word to turn her from her purpose. The
girl’s future depended upon her action. It
was probably the only chance which would
ever come her way.
“I hope you get a good wife, Jimmy,”
she said as she kissed him good-bye that
night. “If ever a fellow deserves one, it’s
you.”
“And you a good husband,May,” he replied.
“Don’t talk husbands to me,” she laughed.
“They’re not for wild ducks.”
CHAPTER XIII.
The Amateur Championships of the South
Coast were an enormous success. The
boxing boom was just then on the rise,
and each night Park’s Criterion Theatre—
that huge bam of galvanised-iron which
constitutes the largest covered area in the
town—was relieved of its movie audien ;o
and filled with devotees of pugilism, Mr.
Park making a handsome thing out of the
indemnity money against his supposed
losses. There was, as usual, an immense
entry in the lighter classes; but only four
middleweights came forward and the same
number of heavies.
The committee, well aware that the title
la}' between Jimmy and Patsy Quirk took
care that they did not meet in the prelimi-
nary. Patsy was drawn against a lathy man
with a reach like a gorilla, a Camden black-
smith. He gave the stranger no chances.
Only once did that piston-rod shoot into
his face. Patsy didn’t let it occur again.
He ducked past it and hooked. In the
second of the four two-minute rounds of
the preliminaries, the seconds of the Cam-
den man threw in the towel, much to the
indignation of their principal, who was cer-
tainly not lacking in courage and who was
led off bleeding like a pig and asserting
loudly that he could have had Patsy out
in another minute.
Jimmy met a stocky Hercules who brought
with him from Helensburg two score bar-
rackers. Like many men of great strength,
he was unable to land a solid punch. Jimmy
stopped only one—a body blow—but, after
the hammerings he was accustomed to get
from Greave, it felt like a.tap. Early he
saw that he could do as he liked with the
man, and contented himself with outpoint-
ing him. He did not want to take any risks.
He would have to meet Patsy a week later,
and a bruise is painful under such a fist as
Patsy’s, even after that lapse of time.
The fight between Jimmy and Patsy was
recognised as the best of the tournament.
The men were well matched, and it was
known that they would fight with that fine
mixture of science and hard punching which
raises a crowd to frenzy.
For the finals there were six rounds of
the regulation three minutes. The first
couple of rounds were Jimmy’s. He caught
Patsy napping almost at the bell and scored
a solid punch on the jaw that made Patsy
clinch for half a round. Jimmy opened the
next round with rushing tactics. He bore
Patsy against the ropes and landed heavy
half-arm blows that left red blotches on his
skin. Broken by the referee, they stood off
and exchanged some pretty blows that ex-
cited the crowd to cheers. Another short
hit on the jaw in a scuffle sent Patsy to his
corner shaky.
During the minute’s interval he made a
marvellous recovery. He came out as fresh
as he had been at the opening. Jimmy
rushed again and Patsy met him flush on
the jaw. It was a steadying blow. Jimmy
did not fall, but he had to clinch. He felt
better in the fourth round and contrived to
give as good as he got, but he was tiring.
Patsy’s seconds saw it and instructed their
man accordingly.
Patsy went into the fifth round deter-
mined to make it willing. The rushing was
on his side now. Jimmy side-stepped and
sent in a heavy swing on Patsy’s mouth.
It was a blow which would have finished
any fighter but one with such a capacity
for taking punishment. Patsy merely turned
and gave one of his good-natured grins at
Jimmy. Then he bounded after him, hooked
with the right, and, as Jimmy was stopped
by the force of the hit, whipped his left
across to his point. Jimmy dropped his
arms, stood motionless for a second and
then simply crumpled up on the floor.
The house rose and yelled. Through the
din the referee stooped beside Jimmy and
tried to make him hear his call of the ten
seconds. But there was no need to call.
Sergt. Dunn was in the ring. The fight was
stopped. Patsy rushed to Jimmy and helped
to carry him to his corner. He shook
Jimmy’s hand with the shake that was
sincere. He bowed to the cheering house
which felt that here at last was a champion
from the South Coast, Then he raised his
glove for silence.
“Gentlemen,” he said, pointing to Jimmy’s
corner, “that boy taught me all I know.”
Patsy was the middleweight champion of
the South Coast and the representative of
the district in the Australian Champion-
ships to be held in Sydney in six weeks.
They were together next morning when
they met May. When she saw Jimmy’s face
she was quite alarmed. His lips were
puffed like a negro’s. He had not black
eyes; the whole upper part of his face was
black.
“00, Jimmy!” she cried. “Who did that?”
Jimmy tried to smile, but it hurt. “Patsy
was the artist,” he explained. Patsy grinned.
He had only one black eye.
“You beast!” she said to Patsy. Patsy
grinned again; he wasn’t quite sure that
the girl was not in earnest.
“I taught Patsy a bit too much,” observed
Jimmy. “But if it’s going to help carry
him where it ought, I don’t grudge a few
punches.”
May looked at Patsy quizzically. “You
men are all brutes. I suppose Jimmy would
have done the same to you.”
“My word, he tried!” laughed Patsy.
“This is a fine eye to take home. I don’t
know what Father Phelan’ll say. He was
kicking about my boxing the other day.
‘Mister Quirk,’ he says to the old man; ‘ye
shud not allow yer son to be bathering
God’s image in that way. ’Tis impious;
’tis a sin.’ ”
Unlike Des Quirk, Patsy did not take the
Church too seriously. He was terribly in
arrears in his duties, and he was generally
missing from early mass.
“And this is the lad who let an unknown
mug knock him out one night in Kembla-
street!” said Jimmy.
“Don’t put me away now,” pleaded Patsy.
“It’s dirt to bring a man’s past up against
him like that.”
Mrs. West was even more apprehensive
than May about the extent of Jimmy’s
punishment. She thought he ought to see
a doctor. Many people contracted serious
complaints which led to death or total dis-
ablement from blows much less severe. She
and Mrs. Blessington and May met in
conference and carried a resolution that
such things ought to be stopped. The two
elder women looked upon Patsy as a ruf-
fian who had taken unfair advantage of
Jimmy. It w T as only when Jimmy’s face
began to resume its normal appearance that
they ceased to regard Patsy as a sort of
anthropoid ape which had trespassed into
modern civilisation.
“You put up a good fight, Jimmy,” said
Wellington, “but that chap’s got a hell of
a punch. He’s scientific, too. To my mind,
you got off lightly. Patsy’ll be heard of
yet, if he sticks to it.”


LONG LIFE
*
y Owing to special
process in manu-
facture of the le id,
the ‘Mephisto’ Copy-
ing Pencil lasts much
longer, yet writes
easily and smoothly
without heavy
pressure.
Med um, Hard and
Extra Hard Degrees.
mu THE POPULAR
COPYING PENCILS
Also in 8 colours for checking, tc.
From al. Stationers, etc.
U k C. HARDTMUTH. of “KOH-I-NOOR” Pencil fame,
London Ottice—29. Kinirsway. W.C.2
Austra ian Representative—
JOHN MACDOUGALL. P.O. Box 165. SYDNEY.
TOWN OR COUNTRY.
From its inception the Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia
has extended its services to the people as a whole.
Recognising that the man in the country, equally with the city
dweller, needed efficient and widely extended banking service, the Bank
has made its facilities available from all points—by nearly 4000 Post
Office Agencies as well as by 94 full Branches in the principal towns.
In addition to local business, money may be transferred to and from all
States free of Exchange, and travellers may, by arrangement, make
deposits or withdrawals at any Branch or Agency.
There is no charge for opening an account, and deposits of from
I/- upwards may be made at any time.
iSbminonwcaltl) Savings JM of Huslralla
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Day. Week.
Tariff.
Single Room and Meals .. .. 25/- 168/-
Double Room and Meals .. .. 45/- 300/-
Single Room and Breakfast .. 15/- 100/-
Double Room and Breakfast . . 27/6 182/6
Telephone: F 4141.
Dalgety congratulated Jimmy on his
pluck in the good old English sport in a
patronising way; the men at the coke works
regarded him as an object for sympathy;
and, as for Jimmy himself, he saw good
come out of evjl, for he wrote a psychologi-
cal study called “Out,” for which “The Ish-
maelite” paid him thirty shillings.
He went up to Sydney as one of Patsy’s
seconds when the Australian Championships
came on. Patsy went through all five of his
competitors with more ease than he had
experienced with Jimmy. On the final
night he left the ring without a mark, and
had the satisfaction of finding the sporting
press hail him as the most promising man
in the competitions and one who was well
up to professional form.
Patsy received an offer to enter profes-
sional ranks and meet Jules Loubet, the
French middleweight, who had been fighting
with varying success in the different capi-
tals. Loubet was one of those who always
put up a good fight. He was not in the
champion class, but he had lasted out
eighteen rounds with no less a master than
Georges Carpentier; and since his arrival
in Australia had contrived to stay the
twenty with some of the world’s best. The
offer was a fifty-fifty cut of the gross. Lou-
bet’s manager stipulated for a seventy-thirty
cut of “that cut, win, lose or draw.
“Take it,” advised Wellington. “It gives
you your chance. If you beat this French-
man it puts you right up in the first class;
if he beats you, it won’t spoil your future,
for- he’s beaten mighty good men. If you
make a showing, you’ll be all right and get
an opportunity for a profit later.”
Patsy was a bit anxious. He was over-
borne by the knowledge that his adversary
was a professional and a professional of
parts. Jimmy did not take a place in Patsy’s
corner for fear of imperilling his amateur
status. Some day he might want it again;
you never knew. The fight itself lasted
out the limit and was declared a draw.
Naturally, the five hundred South Coast-
ers who had come up by special train swore
that Patsy had won handsomely, and used
shocking language about the corruption of
the referee. Jimmy himself thought that
Patsy had just shaded Loubet; but admitted
that there wasn’t much in it.
It was a good fight with plenty of hard
hitting and courage and a few of those
wild, whirling insanities on the ropes that
send the onlookers into delirium. They left
well satisfied with Patsy as a spectacular
attraction, and especially with the little
comedy touches with which he unconsciously
adorned the more serious business. He re-
ceived forty-five pounds for his night’s
work, leaving about thirty pounds clear. He
bought his mother a fur coat, and out of the
balance spent five pounds on an impossible
gold medal which he sentimentally gave to
Jimmy.
Jimmy had to pretend that he was over-
joyed to wear the atrocity on his watch-
chain, and there it remained until fifteen
months later, when Patsy, having cleaned
up Australia, crossed the Pacific in search
of new worlds to conquer.
CHAPTER XIV.
During the next six months Jimmy
worked like a Trojan learning shorthand.
He mastered the principles within a week
and could write it—sometimes read it—
with fair accuracy after a month. At the
end of the half-year he had acquired a
speed of only thirty words a minute, despite
Mum’s devotion in dictating for two hours
a day. Wellington had long decided that
the boy should enter journalism.
“It was no good telling you before,
Jimmy,” he said, “though I suppose you had
some idea of it yourself. But I didn’t want
to mention it until there was a chance. I
would have put you on long ago myself if
the ‘Guardian’ could run a reporter; but
there’s no hope of a city job for a boy.
They wouldn’t stand Delane and Brisbane
rolled into one if they were eighteen—or
if they looked eighteen. They want their
men young, but they won’t have boys,
however good they may be.
“There’s a reason, too. People are eter-
nally backing down on their statements
in interviews and speeches, and it sounds
a pretty good argument when they can say
‘the reporter was only a bit of a boy.’ But
you’re nineteen now and you look older.
Another year and you’ll be able to have a
try at something. You’ll reach one of the
capitals all right, but I suppose you’ll have
to make a start in the country—-[Newcastle
for preference; that’ll give you heaps of
good experience; or Bendigo or Ballarat
or one of the Queensland places. In the
meantime, on with shorthand. It’s the first
question they ask you. You don’t want
a great speed, if you have intelligence. I’ve
known dozens of tiptop men who scraped
along on a hundred a minute. But you
must have confidence with it or you’ll be
badly left.”
With the K.O. against his record, Jimmy
finally abandoned the idea, which once or
twice crossed his mind, of winning fame and
fortune in the boxing arena. Patsy was his
master. He recognised that. He felt cer-
tain that Patsy was of the champion class,
but he had no desire to be a lesser light
himself, a fighter who had to take what
was offered and fight whomsoever was
chosen, a slave of the ring.
He was reading little now—only fiction,
to which he had been impelled against his
own inclination by May. Until she came
on the scene he had read no stories but
those in Mrs. West’s library and penny
enormities like “The Black Disc Gang.”
May introduced him to the moderns —
Hardy and Wells and George and Frank
Norris and 0. Henry—and to the humorists
—they laughed through Stephen Leacock
together, and for the first time he revelled
in those masterpieces of realism “Tom
Sawyer” and “Huckleberry Finn.” But
when he took up shorthand, everything
else had to go—except May.
And in November May went —left with
seventy pounds in her pocket and the deter-
mination to fight her way to the concert
platform.
“If there’s anything in a voice, she’ll do
it,” said the organist.
“If there’s anything in hard work, she’ll
do it,” said Mrs. Blessington.
“If there’s anything in personal charm and
good looks and good nature and good
humor, she’ll do it,” said Wellington.
"The cream of her body seemed to be luminous wiunn, as if an incandescent lamp were hanging beside her heart"
The send-off to May originated as a tri-
bute by the Catholic congregation for her
work in the choir; but so many outsiders
asked to be allowed, to subscribe that it
soon assumed the dimensions of a public
function, and the Mechanics Institute had
to be hired to accommodate the crowd.
Wally Jackson headed the subscription
list with five pounds. Jimmy didn’t like
Jackson He had disliked him since the
day he had seen May motoring with him
shortly after her arrival. He regarded
Jackson as the rich man’s son who looked
upon the daughters of the people as fair
game When Jackson turned up at the
presentation, he told May of his suspicions.
“You’re an awfully bad judge of char-
acter, Jimmy. Wally’s one of the best
here. I sorted them all out and I picked
on you; but Wally came second. You did
him an injustice, Jimmy. I’ve never told
you; but before I’d been here a fortnight,
Wally Jackson wanted to marry me—would
have driven off with the motor to town
and married me there and then.”
Jimmy felt penitent. He was glad to be
introduced to young Jackson—three years
his senior—and was charmed to find him
not in the least a snob. They sat. together
while the speeches were being made, and
Jimmy saw that Jackson was still deeply
in love.
May made a little speech of thanks.
There were tears in her eyes and dimples
in her cheeks and little punctuations of
gurgling laughter and a dozen whimsical
allusions which vastly amused the audience.
“You’ve said a lot of nice things about
me which I know aren’t true. But you
think they’re true—that’s all that counts,”
she concluded. “I can only tell you this.
I’ve never been so happy in all my life
as I have the two years I’ve spent here
with you dear pals in Illawarra —especially
Mrs. Blessington, who’s been another mother
to me.”
They gave May a fine travelling-bag
with all sorts of dinky feminine arrange-
ments in it and an illuminated picture
drawn by Stan Carlisle, now an art student
in Sydney, showing May coming in on the
top of a wave on her surf-board with the
setting sun behind her, its rays melting into
the one hundred and twenty lines whereon
her Illawarra friends placed their signatures.
“Those are the Five Islands, May,” said
Jimmy, later. He gave her a brooch with
five rubies in a row on a bar of gold—a
simple design but an artistic one. May
kissed it, kissed Jimmy and pinned it on
her bosom. “I value that more than all
the rest,” she said. “That’s going to be
my mascot, Jimmy.”
May had carefully refrained from any
mention of Jimmy at her send-off. He was
just one of those present. She maintained
thin attitude until the train drew up to
carry her to Sydney. There were twenty
or thirty to see her off. She had shaken
hands with all, including Jimmy, when the
door was opened for her.
Then the tension broke. She dashed up
to him, threw her arms around his neck
and kissed him passionately. There were
tears on her cheeks when she bounded from
him, jumped into the carriage and thrust
half her body through the window to wave
her handkerchief until the train turned to
shut the platform from her view.
“I always thought you two would get
married,” said Mum to Jimmy that evening.
“It isn’t my fault,” replied Jimmy. lve
asked May a dozen times. But I can t
club the girl and drag her to the registrar.
“But why won’t she?”
“She has a good enough reason, ex-
plained Jimmy. “She says she doesn t love
me.”
“If every woman loved her husband as
much as she loves you there’d be less un-
happiness,” commented Mary West.
“She has a very high idea of what love
should be,” Jimmy went on. “I fell just
a little short of it.”
“She’s making a great mistake, muttered
Mum, shaking her head.
When he came to say good-bye on his
way to work, Mary West pulled down his
head and kissed him.
“My poor boy,” she said, “life’s full of
this sort of thing. You’re just starting to
suffer. But be game, Jimmy, be game.”
It was not long before Jimmy found need
for all his courage. Not six weeks later
he was at the oven one early morning when
the manager called him into his office. He
looked serious.
“Brace yourself up, Jimmy,” he said.
“I’ve very ba.d news for you, rotten news.
They’ve just ’phoned up from town to say
that Mrs. West’s been taken suddenly ill.
She’s been removed to the Illawarra hospi-
tal. Go straight away.”
Jimmy hustled off to the hospital with
all haste. The matron met him in the
passage.
“Are you Mr. Packington?” she asked.
“I’ve sad news. Mrs. West died within half
an hour after her arrival.”
Jimmy stood silent. It was unbelievable.
Only a few hours previously he had said
good-bye to Mum. She had looked happy
and cheery and the picture of health. She
was knitting Jimmy a pair of socks and was
(Continued on page 45.)


Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN
BOXES.
FOLDING
’"THE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 8812/22, is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of his rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, of 77
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN ART OF PRO-
DUCING MINIATURE WALLPAPER.
THE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
* No. 4148/21, is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of his rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, of 77
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
- .Ary ' Cr to
* l ! e j%?J ts s:! i *of:*
**2?
* /tT'J&ish P *s6?**y
S/yf Ca Sj^c Pr r>( o/?c </
O* ** «/£'***,l <V*
*t Z n As Js ActP the
4L
4 c/f>An or
' Cr^<7^,
Ask to see the latest
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Mohning Sets
Dainty White
• China
Nursery Ware
Lj J.ucie Attwell
6-Hilda Cowham
Domestic Ware
Jelly Moulds
IN CASe OP
23a.CLAR.KNCS JT.
ƒ
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: FOLLOW THROUGH
CRITERION: COQUETTE
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD..
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
KING’S THEATRE:
LITTLE ACCIDENT.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE NEW MOON.
LAST NIGHTS.
LILAC TIME.
(COMMENCING SEPTEMBER 6.)
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING MONDAY NEXT AT
THE MATINEE,
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents
THE FOLLIES OF 1930,
With a Brilliant Cast of Popular Favorites.
Popular Pre-war Prices.
IJOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
n MELBOURNE.
ALL TALKIE PROGRAMME.
WARNER BAXTER in
SUCH MEN ARE DANGEROUS.
(Children over 6 and under 16 not admitted.)
ALSO
SEYMOUR HICKS in
SLEEPING PARTNERS.
(Passed for General Exhibition.)
Missing Friends.
Re GEORGE JAMES PEARSON.
"W/ILL any person knowing the whereabouts
W of GEORGE JAMES PEARSON (or
any of his children), son of Joseph Pearson
and Sarah Agnes Mason, late of Hobart,
please communicate with the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Hobart.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN PROCESSING
MILK.
"THE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 25606/25, is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, of 77
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
PROCESS OF MANUFACTURING
SYRUP.
HTHE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
* No. 9095/27, is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of his rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, of 77
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenlands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Lord Stonehaven flew out west to see
the shearing at Colin Bell’s Westland station,
with Captain Brain piloting. Morning-tea
at Roma, lunch at Blackall, and dinner
and bed at Longrehch was the first day’s
programme.
On his return from the aerial trip the
G.-G. partnered Dr. Ahern in a match at
Yeerongpilly golf links against Major Bell
and Mr. T. Lawton, and won by one up.
There was a dinner party at Government
House in the evening, the guests including
Lord Stonehaven, Littleton Groom and his
lady, Bishop and Mrs. de Witt Batty. Colonel
and Mrs. Kaye Puckle and Miss Chamber-
lain.
A Scottish farewell was arranged by the
Caledonians for Lord Stonehaven before he
left for Sydney, and the pipers played him
down the steps at Government House. W. G.
McGregor is president of the club, and at
his request Lady Goodwin pinned a life
membership, badge on the lapel of the G.-G.’s
coat.
The first annual ball in aid of the new
Marist Brothers’ College was held in Len-
non’s ballroom, the Governor and Lady Good-
win and Archbishop Duhig being present.
Mesdames A. V. Meehan, H’. J. Windsor and
.T. Lynch received the Vice-regals. Lady
Goodwin was in black Chantilly lace, with
a black wrap embossed in silver; Mrs. Wind-
sor in black lace, Mrs. A. V. Meehan in
gold lace over pink and Mrs. Lynch in
turquoise blue velvet.
Brisbane has been welcoming back from
India and China Mrs. C. E. North, who was
Agnes Merrington. She and her doctor hus-
band found the East trying—the doctor was
always kept busy with wounded soldiers—
and they propose to settle in Dunedin. Their
18-months’ old baby was born in Canton.
Somerville House welcomed them at after-
noon tea, for here Agnes Merrington was
educated.
Nellie Bramley gave a benefit for the
S.P.C.A. and had a packed house. The play
was “Jimmie’s Women,” performed for the
first time in Australia, and a vice-regal
party was present.
For the jumble stall for the October f@te
of St. Finbar’s there was a dance and
bridge party at the Hotel Windsor arranged
by Mesdames Denis O’Connor and J. J.
McCarthy. The Q. N. Bank staff had their
ball on the same night in a setting of blue
and tangerine.
A recent wedding was that of Archibald
Archer, son of the late Robert Archer, Grace-
mere, Rockhampton, who married Sarah
Beatrice Cameron, daughter of the Donald
Crombies, of Greenhills station. In ’53 the
Archers took up Gracemere and the family
still hold it. Greenhills was established by
Camerons and Crombies in ’79. This is the
third wedding that the head station has wit-
nessed. There were more than a hundred
guests, and the knot was tied at an altar
draped with white linen and covered with
fern on one of the flower-decked verandahs.
The bride, who was given away by her father,
was in parchment-tinted faille and a Honi-
ton lace veil. Shrimp-pink chiffon was worn
by the three ’maids, Judith Crombie, Ella
Clift and Barbara Hart. Cairns district sees
the ’moon, and the future home is Kensing-
ton Downs.
Heavy rain fell for the Q.T.C. races at
Ascot. Raincoats and goloshes were the
wear. Bougainvillaea and marigolds back-
grounded a mushroom growth of umbrellas.
There were Dr. and Mrs. Meehan, the Alec
Palmers and Mrs. Norman Nivison (Syd-
ney) amongst those who saw Seremond win
the Cup.
Captain John Whyte Peden, who died on
the bridge of the Marella while she was
steaming out by the Pile Light on her
trip south, was a native of Kilmarnock,
Scotland, where he was born 63 years ago.
He joined the Queensland pilot service in
1911.
Charlton James Ivable married Dorothy
Margaret King, of Redcliffe, in a setting of
white flowers and wedding-bells. The
bride’s father performed the ceremony and
her brother gave her away in white satin
beaute with veil of Brussels net. Pink mari-
ette over satin was worn by the ’maids,
Ruth King, Enid Coutts and M. Kable. The
reception was at Hurley House.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA^
Adelaide.
His Ex. and Lady Hore-Ruthven have
been touring the wilds, visiting the opal
fields, Mount Eba, Bon Bon and other
stations. They are now on their way to
Westralia, returning to Adelaide on Sept. 13.
There was a better attendance at Victoria
Park for the second meeting of the Adelaide
Racing Club. The star visitor was Sir Otto
Niemeyer, who was the guest of Mr. James
Hall and Miss Hall at afternoon tea. He
drew almost as much attention as Don Brad-
man or Amy Johnson might have done.
Donald Reid, who left the firm of James
Marshall soon after it was converted into
Myer’s Emporium, is going into business
in Melbourne, and his wife and family
leave shortly to join him. Mrs. F. Runge
organised a farewell bridge for Mrs. Reid
at the Wentworth, when the guest was pre-
sented with a set of asparagus forks.
A very successful bridge party in aid of
the Mayor’s fund was held at the Hotel
Botanic. Mrs. Killicoat generously gave the
use of the lounge, and supplied the dainty
supper as a donation. Mrs. T. Flint
arranged the tables.
Old Collegians of the Presbyterian Girls’
College gav t . a very cheery dance at the
school. A large garden and a moon were
among the attractions. Dancing was in the
large class-room, decorated in gold and black
streamers.
The Mothers and Babies’ Health Associa-
tion is getting up a ffite, to be held in the
grounds at Urrbrae next October. The Maw-
son lady and Mrs. A. T. Pointon are the
moving spirits.
Peter Bornstein, of the Elder Conserva-
torium, arranged a successful concert in the
Town Hall on behalf of the Mayor’s relief
fund. His Ex. and Lady Hore-Ruthven were
present, and every item brought an encore.
The Town Hall is working overtime with-
out bringing in any rent these days.
A dance and bridge evening is being organ-
ised in aid of the single unemployed returned
soldiers. The Cheer-up Hut has resumed its
war-time activities.
Heather Gell, assisted by Marjorie Bon-
nin, gave a lecture demonstration of Dalcroze
eurhythmies at Australia Hall. A skit on
Mickev the Mouse cartoons was cleverly
executed by the tiny pupils. Lady Ilore-
Ruthven and the Mayoress were present.
Sydney gets, and Adelaide loses, L. J.
McCounan. as State manager of the National
Bank. He has had seven years in the
southern city and was much dined and other-
wise farewelled on leaving with his wife
and small daughter.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The little over-the-water suburb of Belle-
rive raised the best contribution so far
netted by suburban endeavor for the Con-
sumption Sanatorium fund. The entertain-
ment took the form of an American tea and
an ugly-man competition. Attorney-General
Baker’s wife declared the show open, and
a dance concluded proceedings in the Town
Hall.
A big batch of members entered for the
prizes given by Mrs. J. Ingles for the
women’s foursomes at Kingston Beach links.
Margaret O’Grady and Betty Giblin (the
latter has just returned from a visit to
Sydney) tied with Mrs. E. A. Rogers and
Gwen Tinning. The links looked their best
in the bright winter sunshine.
The Town Hall was well filled for the
ball in aid of the Church Hospital, all the
medical world and liis wife being among the
throng. Mrs. B. H. Blackwood and the Rev.
W. R. Barrett were joint secretaries, and
Church and Medicine footed it merrily to-
gether. The supper was a special feature.
Mrs. Sheppard’s orchestra made the music.
The engagement is announced of Marjorie,
only daughter of the Murray Murdochs,
Elboden-street, and Fred R. Skinner, Huon-
ville. Another affianced couple are Madeleine
Bidencope and Basil White, Holebrook-place.
The John Somervilles have left Geeves-
ton for Melbourne, the first stage on their
journey to England. They will be missed
in the country, where they ran play-readings
and made themselves popular in many ways.
Mrs. Anne Brough, shown in this picture
in one of her
theatrical
parts, is a
versatile lady
of many ac-
t i v i t i e s. In
England she
sang in “The
Gondoliers” as
Tessa, played
Katisha in
“The Mikado,”
and has figured
in Bernard
Shaw com-
edies. She is
an invaluable
member of the
Hobart Reper-
tory Society,
an active
organiser i n
the Child Wel-
fare Associa-
tion, and a
member of the Tas. Board of Film Censorship.
Two recent country dances were the Col-
legiate Old Scholars’, at Huonville, in aid
of the Collegiate School, and a hop engin-
eered by Molly Brettingham Moore and
Father Shaw for St. John’s Parish, Rich-
mond. Though they were held on the same
night both were well patronised.
His Ex. and Margaret O’Grady, with
private _ sec. N. E. Somers in attendance
and with Commander and Mrs. Trevor
Eardley-Wilmot in the party, went to the
annual A.I.F. Ball at the Albert Hall,
Launceston. They were received by the
president of the R.5.5.1.L.A., Mr. H. P.
Ritchie, Mrs. Ritchie and the Eric Von
Bibras. The decorations were beautifully
carried out, the music was good ,and the
supper ditto; the association has never held
a more successful function.
Artist Jean Spong, at present in the Cold
Country, has been made a member of the
British Empire Academy, and has had a
picture hung at the exhibition in the Bur-
lington Gallery.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The Y.A.L. hall was effectively decorated
for the Sacred Heart High School Ball. Red
and white flowers decked the tables and
fern and flags the ballroom. A round dozen
of debs, gave an accurate demonstration of
the lancers; they were all in white, with
long gloves and Victorian posies. Two small
tots, Pauline Solomons and Pattie Cross,
presented her Ex. and the Mayoress with
bouquets. The president, Mrs. McDonough,
wore ashes of roses velvet; Mrs. Dan Mul-
cahy forsook her babies for a brief appear-
ance in black with green slippers; Mrs.
Horan wore shell-pink; Mrs. Saunders, black
lace; little frills decked Kathleen Connaugh-
ton’s black frock; Noreen Riley was in peri-
winkle with a tissue corsage; Vera Quigley’s
jade-green was fanciful with rosebuds and
sister Phyllis wore pale pink; Mercia Scott
chose tangerine taffetas; and Marjorie Leane
a moulded garment of pink moire.
The National Council of Women has been
welcoming home its president-elect,' Dr.
“C.Q.”: A cat held up the metropolitan
railway service in Melbourne recently. Some
Neronian person with a delicate taste in
sport threw the tabby, with a length of
wire attached, across the catenary wire.
There was a short circuit, the catenary fell
to the ground, and all power was cut off on
all lines beyond Burnley, wliicb includes
Box Hill, Darling, Kew and Ashburton. The
unfortunate cause was found badly singed
but still breathing.
“A Major” : The last of the great pupils of
Joachim, the Mahomet of the violin, went
west the other day, w’hen Maestro Leopold
Aner passed over at 83. His father was a
house-painter and very poor. The youngster’s
craving for music was phenomenal, and by
hook or by crook his father paid his fees
at the Vienna Con. for a year or two. But
he couldn’t keep it up and the boy had to
go to work at 13. However, he went on
practising on his fiddle, and when he was
16 friends took him to Joachim, who heard
him play and decided that he had found a
worthy disciple. Through Joachim’s influence
Aner, at 22, got a professorship at the St.
Petersburg Con. He met Dairdoff, the
’cellist Tschaikowsky, Rubinstein and Rim-
sky-Ivorsakoff, who all became his intimate
friends. He also enjoyed the acquaintance-
ship of Brahms and Liszt. In 1918 he
migrated to New York, and on the occasion
of his 80th birthday two of his pupils, Zim-
balist and H'eifetz, organised a concert in
his honor in the Carnegie Hall, in which'
they, Aner and pianists Rachmaninoff, Hof-
man and Gabrilowitsch took part. Net pro-
ceeds were 20,000 dollars, which enabled
the old chap to return to Europe, where he
spent his last days. He was a consummate
master of violin technique, a painstaking
and thorough teacher; and as an executant
had uo rival as an interpreter of the violin
works of his friend Tschaikowsky, into which
he infused tremendous vitality.
“D.”: The Palm Island affair, which
resulted recently in the acquittal of Thomas
Hoffman on a charge of murder, supplies a
ready-made talkie plot. Curry broods over
his fancied wrongs (a great part this for
someone of the Louis Wolheim type) and
eventually runs amok, shoots the doctor and
matron, bombs his son and step-daughter, and
is exterminated. There would be no place
for a criminal storekeeper, a combination
bar and night club, native ballets, blithered
remittance men or any of the conventional
Island props., and the picture would gain
porportionately in realism. Palm Island
is only a few miles off the Q. coast, and it
is handy to the venue of the trial. The
press has provided a good deal of the pre-
liminary ballyhoo, and could be rhlied on
for more. We have the audiences (according
to Film Censor O’Reilly every man, woman
and child attends a movie service 20 times
a year) and we have the actors. In fact
nothing is wanting to bring the film into
being but an Australian movie industry.
Roberta Jail. Music was sandwiched between
the speeches, and Dr. Jull gave an account
of her doings in foreign parts. Chief Justice
McMillan’s lady was in black; Phoebe Holmes
wore flame chiffons and the guest of honor
mixed orange satin with black lace. Mrs.
Geoffrey Drake Brockman, Mrs. F. A. Cooper,
Mrs. Semmens, Miss Barbara Stewart, Mrs.
Richards, Mrs. Weare, Mrs. Staines, Atlml
Clifton and Gladys Pendred were among the
throng.
Golden-voiced Phyllis Browning-Turner
has become affianced to an English engineer,
Harold Ashton, of Ceylon.
In this week’s exodus are Mrs. James
Brennan and daughter Cecilia. They are off
to Ceylon to visit Mrs. Peter Vigne. Linley
Wilson and Joanne Priest are on their way
to London to absorb the latest that is to be
learned about dancing.
The kookaburras and butcher-birds who
live in the gums round our Mosman Bay
will have opposition before next year’s nest-
ing. The tinkle of pianos, shouts at hockey
and other healthy youthful noises will com-
pete with bird-song when St. Hilda’s semi-
nary for young ladies is opened. The school
was formerly well known as Miss Parnell’s
and is now the Girls’ High School at Clare-
mont. Plis Ex. waved a trowel this week and
declared the foundation stone well and truly
laid. There is a marvellous panorama of
blue bay, white sand-spit and grey hills.
Mrs. Reg Forbes has gathered more golf-
ing laurels. In the Women’s Open Cham-
pionship at Fremantle, after a close tussle
with Isla Taylor in the semi-finals, she won
from Mrs. McQualter, of Northam, on the
final day over 86 holes. Miss Rosman, of
Kalgourlie, annexed the Women’s Country
Championship. Mr. and Mrs. Forbes won
the open mixed event on a day when the
rain fell in a steady drizzle from early morn-
ing till dusk.
Pretty Marjory Stevens, who only last
year became Mrs. William Gavan Duffy, died
a week after the birth of a baby daughter.
Her charm and gentle manner endeared her
to many friends, whose sympathy goes out
to the bereaved husband and to Mr. and
Mrs. Frank Stevens, who have lost their
only daughter.


AUCKLAND, N.Z. (Acc. 160)
“Only UNLICENSED Hotel-de-Luxe”
C.T., P.S., and Auto. Ass’ns’ House.
Days, 15/- (two or more, 14/-) ; Weekly, 84/-
“Special” rooms (h. and c. water), 16/- or 98/-
THE PATRIOT
■ DIRECT MEDIUM 19 WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney liep.: H. C. HINOHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
FOR SALE.
AUSTRALIAN Patent relating to LIME
HYDRATOR, the best ever offered to
the public. For anyone seeing this adver-
tisement who requires a hydrator or hydrat-
ing equipment, this machinery will be. manu-
factured in Australia. Address inquiries to
SPRUSON & FERGUSON, Patent Attor-
neys, Herald Building, 66 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
Contains everything a woman needs to Icnow.
mm
<£
\
Mellow and Cool
Here’s a cigar especially
adapted to the Australian
taste. It’s fragrant and
rich. . . .absolutely depend-
able in quality. Obtain-
able at hotels and tobacco-
nists’, or at address below.
ORDER BY POST.
CRAIG AND AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney
BACK TO PRE-WAR PRICES
All Wool
Serge Sac
Suits now
699
Three-piece Sac Suits cut
down to this new low price
level in Men’s smart ready-
to-wear clothes!
Correctly cut in the fashion-
able S.B. style. Perfect
fitting. (Be sure we get
your measurements.) These
Indigo Dye Serges are a
favorite with
all men. Get
yours to-day!
Only . .
6919
Ready for Service.
m
j
m
16/6 Trousers
now 12/3
Splendid wearing
quality Grey Woollen
Worsted. Neatly cut.
WE PAY POSTAGE.
Ij writing, kindly address ntwr let'** to Desk “R,” Bov 3875TT,
G.P.0., Sydney.
MiiiundlodlisJK)
( Y ~
planning out what she was going to do next
week. Then Azrael struck from his ambush.
What was he to do without Mum? —she
was part of life itself. The world would
not be the same place. Even when he was
absent from her she was always the influ-
ence behind—the reserve. Her existence was
a factor in every movement, however
trifling. And now he would never see Mum
again, unless, perchance, the stories of the
churches should be true, after all. Jimmy
hoped fervently that they might be.
He walked home to the home that was
no longer a home. Though incoherent
thoughts of his loss tumbled over each
other in his brain, he instinctively looked
for her as he opened the parlor door. A
sock, half-knitted, with the needles still
in it, lay where it had fallen when Mum was
stricken down. Jimmy was surprised that
he had not wept-. He wondered at his own
callousness. Then he saw the sock and the
numbness of his brain was dispelled. He
went to his room and flung himself face
downwards on his bed as he had done when
he was a little boy, to sob in utter despair
and helplessness.
Mrs. Blessington came round later and
prevailed upon him to stay at her place
for a few days. She had a spare room, the
girl who now assisted living with her
parents in the town.
Jimmy was at first reluctant. A day
later he recognised the advantage of the
scheme. With the first blow he had wanted
solitude; after two days he saw that soli-
tude in such conditions is more than human
nature can endure. Still, he fell into the
habit of wandering off to some lonely head-
land or gully and thinking all that the good
woman who was dead had done for him,
had been-to him.
Like most of those lacking in the reli-
gious instinct, Jimmy suffered very keenly
by death. The sincere believer, after the
first shock of parting, feels that the loved
one is happy in a,n eternal life; there is
no such comfort for those who feel that on
the far side of life isi nothing but annihilation.
Jimmy became a permanent boarder with
Mrs. Blessington. He could not live alone
in the old cottage. Anyway, its influence
was too depressing. He kept a few articles
for old association, including Mum’s library
and a crazy quilt he remembered her mak-
ing for him. The rest he sold to Rosy, to
whom he handed over the goodwill of
Mum’s business —not a poor asset by this
time. In a drawer was found Mum’s will,
leaving everything, including £lOO-odd in
the savings bank, to “my dear foster son,
Jimmy Packington.”
Jimmy received messages of sympathy
from many people. May wrote a very nice
letter. She had made satisfactory arrange-
ments for her musical education—one of
the best respected teachers in Sydney had
taken her up with enthusiasm. On hearing
her voice he had promised to teach her all
lie knew of voice production for fifty pounds
down and a further commission of thirty-
three per cent, of her earnings by her voice
for a term of two years after the expira-
tion of his tuition. May accepted this on
advice. Meanwhile she joined the comic-
opera company as a member of the chorus.
“Don’t miss that tall fair girl,” said the
head of the firm on the day she applied.
“If she can’t sing a note, she’s worth her
salary as a show girl.”
So it was that, at the time of Mum’s
death, May was appearing as one of the
Persian Guards in the Melbourne season of
the mirth-provoking revue “You’re the One.”
“You’ve had a bad time lately, Jimmy,”
said Wellington. “But stick to your work.
There’s nothing like work to put it over
worry. Some men take to drink. That
doesn’t help. Others take to work. That’s
the thing. Go all you know at shorthand.”
It seemed that there was nothing before
him but firing the ovens and speeding up
his stenography. He felt little inclined for
writing now, though he kept up “Jean
Jacques Junior.” He went to the surf only
on occasions. He had lost interest in box-
ing now that he was himself a beaten man
and his apprentice was on the high road to
success. There was no Mum to comfort
him as a mother, no May to thrill him
with the charm of her companionship. Patsy
was only half his time in Illawarra now,
Stan Carlisle had long gone.
Of the old push only Bert Burnett was
left, and before long he, too, disappeared.
Bert’s desertion of the old town was dra-
matic and spectacular. Paying more atten-
tion to the lips of somebody by his side
than to the steering wheel of a stolen car,
he had driven them both over a cliff in the
dark. Neither Bert nor the girl was hurt,
but the car was past hope of repair.
Bert didn’t wait to hear what might be
said by the owner of the car or the manager
of the garage or the insurance company
which had to pay up. He took the next
train to Sydney, and when next heard of
was living on the charity of Patsy Quirk
in his training camp at Ben Buckler. Later,
Jimmy heard that he had succeeded in
getting a job as a tram conductor.
Sometimes Jimmy thought of Alma again.
He had heard nothing of the Greys for
two years, except for the Christmas card
which came along regularly. The moment
the fear of competition died away, C. J.
Grey had devoted himself again almost
wholly to his Sydney office. Sometimes he
would come down, look around the works
and pass a kindly word to Jimmy. But
he never referred to Mrs. Grey or the
girls. The engagement of Muriel and
Dalgety was announced in one of the papers
and the date of the marriage was fixed for
six months hence.
Jimmy attenued all the public meetings
now that he might obtain practice in taking-
notes. He generally had to leave early to
start at the ovens; but there were few
evenings when he could not find some aspir-
ing orator for a sparring partner—as Wel-
lington put it.
On Sundays Elijah Moon was a gilt
from the gods. Jimmy’s hand would be
tired to the limit of paralysis before Moon
had concluded his introductory denuncia-
tion of the iniquities of capitalism and its
’enchmen—’enchmen was Moon’s latest
favorite word.
Moon spoke even more frequently and at
even greater length than of old. His tacti-
cal skill in winning the Kembla cement
strike had given him a chance he was not
slow to take. He had forced the unions
of the South Coast —once inclined to laugh
at him as a visionary—to recognise him as
a power. He had long abandoned his advo-
cacy of evolutionary socialism. He had
swung to the single tax, then to com-
munism, then to revolutionary socialism. A
strike of railway employees convinced him
that the State was no more to be trusted
than the private capitalist. He became a
syndicalist. The unions must seize their
industries by force and work them for their
own profit. He learned passages of Puget’s
“Sabotage” by heart and threw them at
the crowd in Illawarra Park.
“Always carry a ’andful of emery powder
in your pocket,” he advised. “A pinch in
th’ works o’ some capitalist’s machine is a
blow struck for freedom.”
The metropolitan papers began to report
Moon. His name gave one a chance to
print some of his most extravagant state-
ments under the heading “Moonshine.” A
rival daily referred to his aim to supplant
the old secretary of the Southern Miners’
Federation with the heads: “The Mantle
of Elijah. Whose will he take? Direct
Action in union management.”
For the first time in his life Jimmy went
to church. He made a round of the
churches, Methodist, Anglican, Presbyterian,
Catholic. He was not impressed save by
the fact that the Presbyterian seemed to
represent a mentality absent in the others
and a lack of the humanity which the
others strove vainly to express. Inexperi-
enced in its ways, Presbyterianism seemed to
him at times to be almost a gospel of Hate.
When he saw that “You’re the One” was
due to open in Sydney, he wrote to Patsy
accepting his invitation to spend a holiday
at the Bondi training camp. The night of
his arrival in Sydney he went to the theatre.
May appeared in a dozen different costumes.
He liked her best in the black and gold of
the Persian Guard. The rest of the girls
in the line were plainly outclassed. He re-
sented her appearance in the clothes of a
London policeman; it was a waste of fine girl.
Next morning he called at the boarding
house in Darlinghurst where she was living.
When his name was taken to her, she
bounded down the stairs and into Jimmy’s
arms. She introduced him to two of the
other chorus girls who lived with her.
One was a damsel not over-pretty in
daylight, who affected a languid air and
drawl" and spoke with uncertain grammar
about the wealthy squatters who were seek-
ing her hand. She left the impression that
they were generally waiting in a queue.
Jimmy did not like Aimee Del Sarte a little
bit. May said she had good points, when
you knew her.
The third' girl was a charming little
woman —the widow, it turned out, of a
professional man. She had taken to the
stage as a means of earning a livelihood.
She had no illusions about her Art, nor
about the chances of profitable remarriage.
For the by-products of Chorusdom, such as
fur coats and jewellery, she felt nothing but
contempt. But her three years’ experi-
ence had taughtgjier not to sit in judgment.
She felt a stronger affection than previously
for May, of whom she knew little, when
she learned that the visitor was a -firer at
a coke oven, and she nearly lost her temper
when Aimee held that May must be mad.
On Sunday morning May and Jenny, the
widow, surfed with him and Patsy, lunching
at the camp. The girls—May especially-
created quite a sensation the half-
dozen pugs who lived there. They felt
that by entertaining the girls they had been
put right into the record-book of society.
Jimmy stayed a fortnight in Sydney. He
and May spent much time together. On
the afternoon he left they lunched at a
restaurant near the Central Station.
“May, I don’t know how far that money
of yours’ll go towards learning all you need,
but Mum left me a hundred pounds and
I want, you to promise me that you’ll call
on it if ever you want it.”
“I couldn’t, Jimmy. It’s awfully good of
you. Just the sort of thing you’d do. But
I couldn’t.”
“But if Patsy or the organist or Welling-
ton offered, you would.”
She nodded. “That’s different. They’ve
been nothing to me—not like you have.”
Jimmy saw her viewpoint.
“Look here. May. If you ever get stuck
will you entertain a business proposition?
I lend you a hundred pounds and you
pay me back a hundred and fifty when
you strike success.”
She thought a moment. There seemed
to be nothing humiliating about the scheme
“I’ll promise.” she said. “You are a
dear; I do wish I could love you,” she
added in a whisper as they crossed the
road to the station.
(To he continued next week.}


fi
*
< V
/
Taking |
w
\L
> IV ■
Of
.fk
U
|After Taking \'fv^
SN
%
14?
5<
JL'
\^i\'<^ r
ABetterWay
*> Begaintturttuth
Every few weeks the newspapers record some new triumph in the fight of Science against Weak-
ness, Pam and the premature symptoms of Old Age. Famous doctors and scientists have
earnestly devoted themselves to seeking out the reasons why people so soon lose their early
vigor, and the results achieved by medical men during the last few years have considerably
added to the span of useful, comfortable life. Some authorities claim that diseases caused by
uric acid are more far-reaching than had previously been supposed—a greater evil in some
respects even than consumption! It is certain that many grow old, feeble and painfully deformed
some even die—years before their time on account of disorders caused by uric acid or genito~urinary trouble.
Find the Cause
Instead of banishing the cause of their troubles, thousands have, unknowingly, been treating mere
symptoms! Some have tried tonics; then anti-acid stomach compounds; then old-fashioned liver or
kidney pills in the hope that they would find relief. Many obtained relief; but it was the temporary
kind that can only come from treating symptoms instead of causes. But with the new remedy—
Harrison s Pills—all that is changed. Harrison’s Pills have shown people they can definitely throw
off their ageing aches, pains and weakness, gaining such energy, freshness and vigorous youth as they
have known for years. By getting rid of the deadly uric deposits , as well as uric acid itself,
Harrison s Pills give REAL improvement in vigorous health—positively, surely and safely.
Feel Younger —or Pay Nothing'!
Many thousands of men and women have gained remarkable benefits from their trial of Harrison’s Pills.
Men who were "cracking up” and losing their virile strength—who were being termed "old-timers”—
have "come back” with a power startling to all who knew them; women who were fast losing their
capability and charm have found in Harrison’s Pills a new way to glowing health and happiness!
Wonderful Testimony
Hundreds have written of their own accord in grateful praise of Harrison’s Pills, many of them eminent
people in responsible walks of life. The four letters here published are selected simply because they are
brief and to the point, but they are absolutely typical of the great numbers of genuine letters we are
continually receiving. ' *
Since You Risk Nothing'— Why Delay?
There is nothing to equal Harrison’s Pills for Aches and Pains; "Nervy,” Dizzy Spells, certain Blood
Disorders, and those special ills that make so many men and women feel old 10 to 30 years before their
time. Harrison’s Pills will drive out the Poisons that cause Kheumatism, Lumbago, Backache, Joint
Pains and Swellings, Gout, Neuritis, Sciatica and Arthritis; they will give you back the elastic step of
youth or cost you nothing! Simply get a package from the nearest chemist. Three sizes: 2/-, 3/- and
5/-. Take as directed, and if not astonished at the prompt improvement in your health, strength, looks
and general bearing, return the empty bottle to Amalgamated Laboratories, Dept, 812, Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney, and get your money back.
Why go on suffering? Why drag through your days? Why not get back your grip
on life this safe, sure, easy way? Get a package of Harrison f s Pills from the
nearest chemist or store NOW and become a power once more!
YOU
MUST
TAKE GENUINE
f
FOR
HEALTH
TRIUMPHANT
They Drive the Uric Poisons from the Blood, Remove the
Cause of Aches and Pains, and Make You Young Again,
£lOO will be paid to anyone proving this is not a Safe, Effective Remedy, bearing a Genuine London Doctor’s Signature.
What a Byron Bay Doctor
Says:
‘‘Dear Sirs, —Several of my patients
having tried Harrison’s Pills and bene-
fited when all other pills, drugs, etc,,
failed, a confrere suggested I should
myself take them for a stiff leg that
had been worrying me. I did so, and
can get about now; the ankle joint
that was quite stiff, painful and life-
less is now good, and I want no better
proof if Harrison’s Pills can do what
they did for me.—(Signed) Sarsfield
Cassidy. M.D.’’
A New Man.
“Dear Sirs, —Due to uric acid and
severe rheumatism, I was practically
dead at 77. In spite of the severity
ex' my trouble, Harrison’s Pills have
made a new man of me, and I feel
not a day older than 50. I have
never known any remedy act in so
remarkably beneficial a manner.—
(Signed) B. Jacobson, Blackman’s
Point, N.S.W.”
Acted Like Magic.
“Dear Sirs, —Only those who have
suffered from Neuritis know the pain
of it. My right arm was paralysed and
the pain was cruel. My mother sent
me some Harrison’s Pills and they
acted like magic. I am so much better
my husband has decided to take them
too. —(Signed) A. V. Gooding, Goben-
ella, via Oberon.”
Wonderful Relief.
“Dear Sirs, —I must write you about
Harrison’s Pills, as I have had such
wonderful relief from them. I was
under five doctors and in five hospitals,
and was discharged as certain to be-
come a cripple. I could not walk
without aid.... had terrible knees, and
my feet and ankles were so swollen I
was giving up hope. Then I saw
Harrison’s Pills praised in ‘Truth,*
and decided to try them... .the swel-
ling has all left; I get about alone,
can go to town without aid, and am
so pleased I could not help writing.—
(Signed) Margaret Keating, 42 King,
street, St. Peters, N.S.W.”
Of Chemists and
Stores Everywhere
Wsm
HARRISON
KIDNEY i BLADDEB
PILLS
U*»JU£.
SON’S
KIDNEY AMO BLADDER”
PILLS
fcl!


AS WE SAID BEFORE.
This Page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
In a Western Queensland township the
other day the junior partner of a local firm
rushed into the editorial sanctum, . and, see-
ing that the great man was not in, looked
up the only compositor on the premises and
told him that his senior partner’s wife had
just given birth to a “big, bouncing boy,”
and not to forget to publish a notice of the
event. The informant was in a hurry, and
had no time to write down the particulars.
The comp, was also in a hurry with his
work and a large quid of tobacco, but never-
theless he promised to see to it. When the
customer had gone some time the comp, recol-
lected that a birth announcement had to be
made, and having been a little absent-
minded, he was puzzled which of the part-
ners should be credited with the baby. Rea-
soning from the hurried appearance of his
SHE: “How long will the next tram be, guard?”
HE: “Oh, usual length, Mum—two cars and a hengine.”
[1/1/’87.]
visitor, he concluded the baby was born unto
the junior partner, to whom he therefore
gave the benefit of the doubt. When that
junior partner saw the birth announcement
in his name he went straight to the office
with an eight-pound axe.
A curious scene was witnessed on the Mel-
bourne wharf the other day. Some immi-
grants of the peasant type who had just
arrived from Ireland were met at the
steamer which had brought them from Sand-
ridge by a number of relatives, including an
aged Irishwoman, apparently the mother of
some of them. One of the first things which
one of the new arrivals —a young man —d d
was to open one of his boxes and present
a clod of hard black “turf” to the old
woman, who received it reverentially, kissed
it, and “blessed” herself. This sod of turf
was part and parcel of the grand ould sod
to which her heart-strings clung.
The quickest “sober up” on record hap-
pened to a man who got home on Jubilee
morn about 2.30 full of loyalty and something
else that wore a decidedly brewery flavor.
Some scrimmaging going on at the front
door, his wife opened the upstairs window
and shouted “Who’s there? Go away at once,
or I’ll send for the police!” To which the
patriotic party below replied: “Shorl ri,
M’rier. Ish me, m’ dear; shus got ’ome from
off’s.” “Who are you?” “Why, I’m your
liusban’, o’ course; come an’ lesh’s in.” “My
husband! Why, you shameful impostor, my
husband came home four hours ago, and is
now in bed, here, fast asleep.” “Wash ’at
you say, m’dear?” “My husband is here in
bed, asleep, I tell you.” Then there was an
interval of five seconds, after which the voice
of the excited but thoroughly sober man on
the footpath called out, “For Heaven’s sake,
Maria, don’t make a noise! That scoundrel
is a burglar. Creep downstairs softly, and
I’ll bring a constable, and have the wretch
arrested on the spot. My gracious! This is
terrible! I’ll never touch the infernal stuff
again, even if I live for a thousand
years.” And then Maria brought a great
joy to the heart of at least one man that
night, as she turned the street door key, and
sweetly said : “Now that you’re a trifle more
sober I’ll let you in, but let this be a whole-
some lesson for you, my good man.”
Victor Hugo’s English estate' alone was
worth £90,000. |2O/8/’B7.]
J. S. Butters, of Melbourne, is so impressed
with the appearance of those South Aus-
tralian rubies that he is sending home a
bottleful to England. Butters is doing this
with a view to ascertaining the value ot the
precious gems per ton. If they come up to
expectations, we intend to order a hundred-
weight ourselves. Perhaps it is now hardly
remembered that years and years ago some-
body found a lump of rock-crystal at Mudgee,
and palmed it off on Butters as a gigantic
diamond. J.S.B. really believed that he had
a new Koliinoor, and exhibited it as such in
the window of a fashionable Collins-street
jeweller. And when the bubble burst the
wicked confectioners of Bourke-street-—-
irreverent scoffers who in olden times would
have been gobbled up by the bears mock-
ingly showed in their windows big hunks ot
candy labelled “Butters’ Diamonds.
Something went wrong recently at Hoki-
tika (N.Z.), and there was a Tophet of a
row. Bevan, M.P., saw that an election was
looming, so he went
up to his constitu-
ency just before the
Jubilee and proposed
to celebrate the fes-
tive occasion by the
establishment of an
Old Men’s Home.
He told the miners
that they were the
“bone and sinew” of
the country; that
they were “labor’s
noblemen,” “glorious
freemen,” the “genu-
ine rulers of this
great country,” and
generally that they
were the head, back-
bone and tail of the
State, and when he
sat down he had a
misguided idea that
he had struck a rich
patch. Presently,
however, a local
magnate arose and
asked why in the
name of lightning
and cowgrease the
West Coast digger
should be chosen as
a special candidate
for a workhouse just
because the Queen
was having a jubilee.
Next a brawny
miner opened out
like a hinge and
spoke these words:
“It’s hall gory rot.
Wot do we want a
Hold Coves’ ’Ome
’ere for ?” And
when he sat down
another man got up,
and said lie was un-
used to public speak-
ing, but he knowed
a hass when he
seed ’im. Mr. B-wan
does not feel so sure
of a block vote at
Hokitika as he did,
and he wishes some of these West Coast
diggers would not allude to him so p ‘insis-
tently as “Work’ouse.” [2O/S/’B7.]
There is a corpse in this item. There
was nothing particular about it; it was
only a plain, ordinary corpse, without trim-
mings or frills, or apple sauce, or any ’other
expensive foolishness, but the doctor who
saw it off kicks up more dust about it than
he ever kicked up about a corpse with all
the latest improvements. It was all that
was left of a poor man’s wife; the woman
and the child started off for the Shadow
Land within 48 hours of each other, and the
child was interred in due course in the local
cemetery. But the. doctor, in a sense, kept
the remains of the dead woman as security
for his bill, which amounted to £5, and
refused to give the necessary certificate or
permit the funeral to come off until a satis-
factory guarantee was forthcoming. Ulti-
mately, however, this weird and wonderful
brand of unapproachable human abasement
got his guarantee; at least, he saw a para-
graph, in the local paper which announced,
in effect, that if an animal eminently fitted
to be a hyiena in front and a hog behind
would call at the office he would receive a
written order on the cashier to pay £5 to
the meanest object that ever had a cold
bath when it needed it badly. The funeral
has since come off.
Marriage is a lottery; consequently the
short and simple annals of this great coun-
try are filled with tales of difficulties that
have arisen between husbands and wives
and other people’s wives, until it seems as
if the Australian coat-of-arms should be
altered to a kangaroo with a black eye and
a badly smashed tail, accompanied by a
razor flying through the air, and the motto,
“Come out and I’ll wipe the floor with yez.”
Down in the peaceful settlement of Hay
(N.S.W ), for instance, there lived a couple
who some time ago took each other for
worse. He would come home at night in a
state of drivelling
drunkenness, arid in
a voice that re-
sembled the tearing
of a rag he would
whoop out remarks
that sounded like a
small boy towing a
saucepan along by a
string. At last he
whaled the. patient,
trusting female, con-
trary to the usages
of polite society, and
then briefly remark-
ing that he was a
hunky boy, he
quitted the scene.
But she stayed on.
Sooner or later she
knew her wandering
partner would re-
turn, and each suc-
ceeding night she
fancied in her
dreams that she
heard him falling
into the old mud-
hole by the garden
gate, and crawling
out with the old re-
mark that he always
made on these occa-
sions. And at last
he came. There was
a lurch and a roar,
and something fell
into that peaceful
home something
that smelt like a
dirty wet dog and a
hogshead, mixed
with cold pig’s cheek
and tate r s, and
which rolled on the
floor and said it had
come to kill some-
body. It was the
hunky boy returned.
Then the fond wife
fell on his neck and
wept. Did she?
not much! No, she tied (behind his
back) the hands of the man who had
smacked her, and then she dragged his
clothes mostly off him, and walked into him
with a rope, and rolled him over and welted
the other side of him, and then she finished
him off with a dog-whip, while the miserable
victim tried vainly to claw up the floor and
hide himself in the depths of the earth. With
a noble moderation the lady resisted the
temptation to scald him for a finale; instead
of adopting this extreme measure, she
painted him red —probably with some of the
paint he had been using to paint the town
red—and then, standing him up. she flicked
him about the legs until he fled from the
scene. He didn’t gird up his loins or any-
thing of that kind, he simply went as lie
was; he struck out for the setting sun with
a shriek, and bounded over everything smaller
than a Baptist church that came in his way.
Like the vanishing of a broken bubble he
was visible one moment and gone the next,
and all that remained was an optical illusion
of a red citizen spinning 150 feet in the air,
and kicking himself as be went to make him
travel faster. Thus these whom the church
had joined were finally put asunder, and the
summer idyll of two lives came to an un-
timely end.
Modest Curate: “Jonah, my brethren—
well, Jonah spent three days and three
nights in the whale’s—in the whale’s
society.” We guess he did.
A fine fat girl is on view at Melbourne,
waxworks. The damsel is a daughter of
the chief of the Bona tribe of aboriginals,
and is considered exceeding fair to look upon
by such as understand these matters. To
alien eyes she is about as fair as a hundred
of coals. Nevertheless, as she gracefully
reclines in a mia-mia, partially bare and
partially not, the chieftain’s daughter is a
startling contrast to the wax figures. At
the interesting age of 19 she weighs 23st.
and measures 56fr. (or it may be inches)
round her little chest. She speaks English
fluently, but is “shy with strangers,” says
the attendant. When The Bulletin
avowed ardent love, the maiden drooped her
eyelids and blushed a regular Indian ink.
A sanguinary skirmish between a bailiff
and a man named Stubbs, residing at Wel-
lington (N.Z.), has ended in bloodshed.
Stubbs was behind with his rent, and the
bloated monopolist, who owned the premises
thereupon hied him unto a bow-legged
sheriff’s officer, and told him to collect the
arrears out of the furniture. But Stubbs
was on the alert, and, though his enemy
rolled up time after time, now as a flower-
hawker and then as a baker’s boy, and a
little later as a man who was collecting for
the Jubilee, and though he also came to
inspect the meter and to take the census, it
was nearly a week before he found admit-
tance. At last he managed to get in by
yelling “Fire!” and they concussed in the
doorway with a force that sent the bailiff
into the street, and he was promptly locked
out. He picked himself up with a broken
head, but next morning he came back : n
another disguise to lay siege to the house,
and sat down on the doorsten. But Stubbs
had thoughtfully covered the step w : th broken
glass, and with a shriek the bailiff skirmished
round into the back yard, and proceeded to
pick enough splinters to make a good-sized
bottle out of his anatomy, in the shed. Then
Stubbs hailed a policeman from the window
and told him that an escaped lunatic had
undressed himself in the coal-house, and
it cost the bailiff half a sovereign to square
the vigilant officer. When he got round
again to the front of the house the door was
open and he entered the hall in triumph.
But all the doors opening from it were locked
except one, and when the officer burst in
here he found himself in a bathroom, and
Stubbs’s Irish “slavey” was just getting under
the shower. She wasn’t a party to the con
spiracy, but Stubbs had taken the chance
on the same principle which animated the
Romans when they used to turn a tiger and
an early Christian into the same enclosure
and await results. There was one weird and
awful shriek and then the bailiff fled for his
life into the next street, and the curtain
THE EQUILIBRIUM—IN SYDNEY.
CUSTOMER: “What’s that?”
PUBLICAN: “Beer! You called for colonial beer, I think ? Well,
that there’s a excised glass of colonial beer! Sixpence,
please!”
[An excise duty was imposed by the new Parkes Government in 1887.
The Trade’s response was a reduction in the size of the “glass.”]
[28/5/'87.]
dropped. The bailiff resigned after this, and
the landlord took proceedings against his
tenant, and would have got a verdict only
Stubbs proved that the house had been taken
in his wife’s name, and it was necessary to
serve a writ on her instead. Then there was
a new trial; but evidence was brought to
prove that the new writ had been served
on Stubbs’s wife’s sister by mistake, and
then there was a third writ and a third
trial, which might have been conclusive but
for a medical certificate that the defendant
had fallen downstairs and broken her leg.
Ultimately Stubbs relented and gave a cheque
which was dishonored, and then he disputed
the signature and sued the landlord for
giving him an unstamped receipt, and while
the case was being heard another bailiff got
in at the instance of another creditor and
seized the furniture. At latest advices, it had
transpired that the sticks were only hired,
and the furniture-dealer who supplied them
now talks of taking the matter first to the
Supreme Court and then to the Privy Coun-
cil and busting Stubbs for good and all with
the costs.
Mark Twain makes an annual income of
over £lOOO in royalties on 11 books.
[2O/S/’B7.]
A most unforeseen accident happened re-
cently at a certain Australian skating-rink.
One young lady was observed to fall and
remain so, and when some people went to
her assistance it was discovered that a
bonnet pin had penetrated her head and
killed her. She was carried out dead, though
the matter was carefully hushed up.
AN ILLUSION DISPELLED.
Tessica Green was a chorus maid
In a popular Melbourne show;
The neck and the arms she much displayed
Were white as the falling snow.
I Was terribly “gone” on this fairest of fays,
And I spent all my money in buying
bouquets,
Which nightly I used to throw.
Flossy de Jinks was the “leading” girl
(And a pretty young thing as well) ;
When the delicate blossoms I loved to hurl
At Tessica’s tootsies fell,
Floss went for ’em straight, with theatrical
gI6C,
Observing, “Of course, they’re intended for
me”
(My feelings no words could tell).
A sallow-faced man of rakish air
He stopped me in the street —
He stuck me up with a stony glare
(His breath was as whisky neat),
And twirling his dyed moustache, he says,
“What do you mean by throwing bouquets
At Flossy de Jinks’s feet?
“I am her husband, sir,” he said
In an angry, tragical tone;
I explained that Tessica was the maid
I loved —and she alone.
That tragical person he shrieked, “Odds life!
Thou insultest, O villain, my father’s wife,
For I am her youngest son.”
THE WAIL OF THE WIFE.
“‘A petition was presented to-day, signed by
12,066 members of the Women’s Temperance Union,
specially directed against the employment of women
as barmaids.’ Humph! It isn’t so much the glass
or two of drink, but the nasty, good-for-nothing
baggages who serve them, my dear.”
Those impudent vixens who serve at the bar,
What mischief and trouble they make;
We all know what brazen-faced wretches
they are
And what simpletons do for their sake;
In the pockets of husbands their photos are
found,
Together with bits of dyed hair —
John’s drinking and flirting all day, I’ll be
bound,
While I haven’t a shilling to spare.
As a wife and mother I beg to protest
Against giddy girls in hotels —
Just look at the way they are painted and
dress’t
To work their iniquitous spells.
I wouldn’t believe any good of a minx
Employed as a barmaid, so there!
The way that John’s wages are wasted in
drinks
Is wicked, I really declare.
If Premier Parkes has a morsel of sense
He’ll order the barmaids to go;
1 won’t hear one word in the creatures’
defence—
I reckoned them up long ago.
My own pet aversions- are Lotties and
Mauds;
All sensible wives should beware
Of thos n artful, made-up, sly delusions and
frauds ;
Oh! a barmaid I cannot a-bear,


NO INVESTOR IS SAFE WITHOUT IT
How many tens of thousands of people were ruined in the ’nineties through being unable to distinguish between the good company
and the bad?
We are on the edge of a similar disaster. Already scores of companies have gone into liquidation. But no great amount of
hardship has yet been caused by the making of calls to meet outside liabilities.
Are you liable for calls? What reserves have your companies got?
And what are your insurance policies worth in case anything serious should happen?
The files and other data at the command of the “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” are so complete that the companies themselves often
apply for permission to consult them.
In compiling its reviews and tables, the “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” draws upon these stores of information.
No investor, great or small, can safely do without this guide. The smaller the investment the greater the need to make sure it
is safe.
You need not buy the “Monthly” without testing its value. Send for a sample copy, along with 1 Jd. stamp to cover postage, and
judge whether it is not worth 22/6 a year to you.
UP A NORTHERN RIVER.
It is early autumn—the season when the
cart-horse bard of the Australian plains
dodders in smothered verse about the leaves
that are getting brown. The bare gaunt
claws of Nature are spreading out over the
earth, and through the crisp night air come
strange mixed sounds —the “awk-awk-awk”
of some undistinguish able reptile, the
"z-z-z-z-z-z-z-z” of some flying insect with a
red-hot tail, and above all, the accursed,
soul-destroying ‘‘toot” of that passing
steamer which plods in and out of the
remoter seaports bearing exasperation on its
wings.
What Australian is there who does not know
that deceptive little , craft —the broken-down,
one-horse vessel which steals alongside the
wharf just after the expectant traveller has
given up all hope and gone to bed. and then
creeps away again before he is awake, and
leaves him hopelessly behind, a lost atom with
RICHARD SPEIGHT : Nov., 1888.
[Richard Speight was the first imported Railway
Commissioner. He reorganised the Victorian service.]
a portmanteau, blaspheming in a fifth-rate
public-house—the flat-bottomed steam-failure
with an inflated whistle, which is supposed
to call twice a week in the dead waste and
wilderness of the night, and which is 20
miles away before the morning resurrection?
The places which this vessel most loves to
haunt are the weary, mouldering, prema-
turely-old, bush-grown little ports of the
northern rivers, and it comes out of its lair
to lie off these spots and toot its aggravat-
ing whistle, and then it slides away into
outer darkness and leaves its intending pas-
sengers to walk. As a rule the belated
traveller who intends trusting his soul to
this means of conveyance arrives by land a
day ahead, with his heart full of hope and
in , a capacious bag, and hunts up a
dismal tangled clerk who represents the
ocal shipping interests in a dismantled for-
*£*!» b , etil( | e the wharf. There is a certain
tired, shock-headed race of clerks who appear
to grow for this especial branch of industry,
and the representative of this outcast race
is generally found keeping his weary watch
in company with a dog-eared ledger and a
three-legged stool. He is an individual who
knows nothing and knows it worse than any
other man on earth, and he doesn’t even
know enough to know that he knows noth-
ing, but booms along with a serenity little
snort of sublime.
he is in a position to report that
tile steamer will most likely come along some
time, if she doesn’t die on the way. She
calls m every three days, except when she is
a month and a half overdue, and then she
calls m twice a week every day except Sun
ay, and that day she calls every alternate
fortnight and three-quarters only At
present however, there is a hitch in the
time-table arrangements, and consequently
she only arrives semi-occasionally, and some-
times not so often as that by a good deal,
but she will probably be along about the
middle of the night, or from that to the
early part of the week after next. Then you
probably inquire if this unreliable Flying
1 Dutchman hasn’t been signalled from some-
where or other along the coast, and he ex-
plains with a pitying smile that there is no
telegraph in these parts, but an orphan boy
who was upon the top of an adjacent hill,
about the centre of yesterday saw some
smoke on the horizon which might have been
the steamer, or, on the other hand again,
it mightn t. It further transpires that the
witness in this case died early the same
morning, so that he can’t be further ques-
tioned on the subject, but by way of corro-
borative evidence it is mentioned that a
subscription is now being got up to buy his
mother a mangle. At all events the shock-
headed commercial youth has got a bill of
lading for 187 bananas duly made out, and
he trusts that the vessel may come along
shortly and remove that festering luggage
out of sight.
After this you can wander up the dreamy
grass-grown thoroughfare and muse in the
sweltering sun, and have dinner at the
licensed sepulchre in the next street, and
wait the course of events. Sometimes in the
tangled wilds of the afternoon, it may be,
an unhappy native floats along, and you can
curse him with your acquaintance, and blast
his soul with your personal friendship till
he withers away and becomes a hollow-
minded and mysterious wreck, and then you
can spread your moral infection around until
it appears to. be time to move your soul
back to the silent wharf and inquire some
more about the steamer.
Generally this second visit breaks up the
shock-lieadod clerk, and he informs you sor-
rowfully that he believes the company has
made arrangements_ to avoid this particular
port in future as if it were a
serpent. They tell a tale to
this day about a clerk on one
of the northern rivers who
was in the act of explaining
something like this to a
demonic traveller, and the
latter in bitter irony pro-
pounded to him a mysterious
conundrum, which was meant
to be a sarcasm upon his
commonsense, about certain
circumstances under which a
door got tired of being a door
and became something else,
and asked him if he thought
this fact should be taken three times a day
in a glass of water, and the clerk considered
about it till he died, and was buried in a
leafy spot under a spreading tree; but the
circumstance is not sufficiently substan-
tiated. Towards six o’clock, however,
the inky .menial generally brightens
up, and if he is struck about this
hour the inquirer may possibly be
supplied with some fresh ignorance,
an d may acquire a disjointed paragraph
to the effect that the expected steamer
may possibly show in the river about
ten o’clock, upside down, with the cap-
tain swimming alongside and carrying
the boiler on his head. Sometimes the
tangle-headed one adds that he will cal] up
at the hotel and advise you when the cough
of the asthmatic monster is heard upon the
bosom of the deep, but this is merely a
premonitory sign that he is going out of
town at once, and won’t be back for three
aays, and is not by any means to be relied
upon.
By this time the tea and flies are ready
at your mausoleum, and two clump-soled
men who live by prodding the paunchy bul-
lock to his doom at the butcher’s shop are
blaspheming at the table, and then the even-
ing drags wearily along while you smoke and
wait and drink and curse and pray. By
eight o’clock the local liquors have eaten
away your vitals; by ten you have smoked
till you. are a hollow mummy, caked all over
on the inside with soot; hy eleven there isn’t
any sign of the steamer, and nobody in the
place has ever heard of such a means of con-
veyance in his life. At midnight you wander
down to the collection of ancient tea-chests,
where the shipping cannibal is generally on
view, but all is silent and deserted, and the
loafer who hangs about outside is quite sure
that the place is only a potato store. The
tide is falling in the river, and where there
used to be water there are only the foot-
prints of a crocodile on the long, slimy
sandbanks, and finally you drift back to
bed with a conviction that a raft may pos-
sibly come along about the back part of the
day of judgment, but till then business is
suspended.
Shade of the great crocodile! Is that the
whistle of a steamboat, after all ? The be-
lated stranger comes out of bed with a
UNMERITED SEVERITY.
SIR HENRY (to homeless waif ): “My poor child, yours is the most distressing case ever
brought to my notice; I think I’ll write a poem about it.”
HOMELESS WAIF: “Oh, sir! Spare me! I AM an orphan, it is true; but remember—
oh, remember it is my first offence!” [1/12/’88.]
[Sir Henry Parkes dabbled in verse, mostly very bad, and published one or two little volumes.]
crash, and hurriedly gets into his portman-
teau under the impression that it is his
clothes. An ironclad insect with eight legs
and four horns is walking across the floor,
and a horror the size of a dinner plate is
roosting on the curtains. Something with
long feelers and , a tail and a general aspect
like a small edition of the rooster which
sassed the holy St. Peter is sitting on his hat,
and while escaping it he squashes a general
sort of reptile which seems to be there for
no particular purpose except to look mys-
terious-like and fill the bill. There is only
one chair in the room, and he falls over
it unto seventy times seven, but at last by
the exercise of a sagacity which is half-
bloodhound and half Job he disentangles him-
self from this weapon for sitting down upon,
and splits down the street with one pair of
socks in his hand and all the rest of his
baggage left behind in the darkness. There is
more whistling on the river, more insects,
the shadow of something that looks like a
kangaroo spreads across the road, somebody
is yelling at the top of his voice on the
wharf, somebody else
There is a mud-barge aground on 'the
shore, and the shade of a half-grown tug-
steamer is trying to get it off and is blow-
ing an unearthly toot about twice in five
minutes. The steamer came in and left
again half an hour ago! Somebody had
stuffed a cork in the whistle so that it had
to leave without saying anything. It won’t
be back for a month, and the other steamer
which travels that way went ashore last
night and won’t be fit for work for eight
weeks. There is just a faint possibility that
a ketch laden with fertiliser and condemned
fish' may put in about two o’clock in the morn-
ing next Tuesday fortnight, but this point is
uncertain because the captain has gone mad
and the mate recently hanged himself. Any-
how, you better not stand on them bannaners,
for the captain wouldn’t take them on
account of there bein’ a lot of scorpions
about them, and if you wouldn’t mind givin’
a haul on this rope we’ll have this ’ere mud >
barge off in two jiffs.
Bless the man who first invented the
steamboat system on Australia’s Northern
rivers.
[23/2/’B9.] James Edmond.
The oldest tree in Europe is asserted to
be the cypress of Somna, in Lombardy, Italy.
This tree is believed to have been in exist-
ence at the time of Julius Cfesar, 42 years
before the birth of Christ, and is therefore
1929 years old. It is 196 feet in height, and
20 feet in circumference one foot from the
ground. Napoleon, when laying down his
plan for the great road over the Simplon,
diverged from a straight line to avoid injur-
ing this tree. [l5/10/’B7.]
An anonymous scientist announces in the
“Age” that if the girls go on studying as
they do the result will be universal feminine
baldness. The point of the thing is that the
dear old babe of a scientist doesn’t know
that the dear girls are pretty bald already,
When a girl sends word that she is indisposed
and can’t come to a party, it means, in nine
cases out of ten, that she has mislaid her
hair, or else the cat has gone away with it.
Why, we remember once, years ago, when
we were shipwrecked, and by stupendous
exertions saved 17 young ladies from a
watery grave, 16 of them were bald. They
hadn’t had time to bring up their tresses
when they rolled out of their bunks and
made for the deck, and the odd one had her
hair on sideways, so, as the position seemed
pretty desperate, we took it off her and
used it for lighting a fire. After that please
don’t talk to us about hair. [l5/10/87.]
•» Is “““*«> *at Brpken Hill silver-
mine contains mineral amounting to
4,158,000 tons worth £12,474,000. This does
not make allowance for tl J e possibility of the
lode being much d & at y pi 4“° t
imagined . A new manager at £4OOO a year is
being brought from America with the latest
improvements in machinery. The principal
share holders come from poor Protectionist
Victoria rio/9/’B7 1
' 1 ' 7
There are women and women. A firm of
Sydney dentists gued a woman } t wee £ fo J
f 5 said t 0 be due on a set of teeth order ‘ d .
Defendant fixed the grinders in her mouth
in court to prove to his Worship that they
were a mi sfit, and won the Cas / J Not
women out of a thousand would do this,
An ordinary f ema ie would rather be dragged
to deatb by wild horses or g 0 without
bonnet for a whole year than thus publicly
acknowledge her indebtedness to art for a
W make-up. [l3/8/87.]
It came out in a Sydney suburban court
that some fashionable local dressmakers are
in the habit of lending their fair customers
reasonable sums of cash at the rate of seven
per cent, per month, and charging same as
“dress materials” in the husband’s bill Not
long ago a certain well-known Sydney dress-
maker happened to become aware that a
prominent lawyer had paid a pretty long
millinery bill on behalf of a lady who was
not his wife. Thus having the husbahd in
her power, she turned th e information to
excellent trade account by so manipulating
his wife that the latter, a most cxtrava-
gant woman, ran up with her a bill for
£l3OO, which the lawyer dared not refuse
to pay. And now that an open row has
come, the domestic affairs of that husband
and wife are to be ventilated in the Divorce
Court, thanks chiefly to the benign agency
of the dressmaker.
EXPERIENCE.
“Nobody ever learns from any other man’s experi-
ence.”
The world is made when the man is born:
He must taste for himself the forbidden
springs;
He can. never take warning from old-
fashioned things;
He must fight as a boy, he must drink as a
youth,
He must kiss, he must love, he must swear
to the truth
Of the friend of his soul; he must laugh to
scorn
The hints of deceit in a woman’s eyes
That are clear as the wells of Paradise.
And so he goes on till the world grows old,
Till his tongue has grown cautious, his heart
has grown cold ;
Till the smile leaves his mouth and the ring
leaves his laugh,
And he shirks the bright headache you ask
him to quaff.
He grows formal with men and with women
polite,
And distrustful of both when they’re out of
his sight.
Then he eats for his palate and drinks for
his head,
And loves for his pleasure, and ’tis time he
were dead.
JOHN BOYLE O'REILLY.


LIFE INSURANCE
Is the most effective instrument evei
devised by human intelligence for the
promotion of industry, saving, character
and happiness.
Insure Your Life with
A.M.P. SOCIETY
ASSETS £78,500,000
A MUTUAL institution where the whole of the available surplus
is divided ANNUALLY amongst the participating members.
enquiries invited.
Head Office:
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
F. T. BRIDGES,
General Manager.
Offices in the leading Country towns, and field representatives in all Districts.
ft?
§3
Ss
ass
An empty Guinness
means a man
refreshed
GUINNESS has a wonderful restor-
ative power* A glass of GUINNESS
with the midday meal and on retiring
gives you strength and energy for
your work, and ensures sound refresh-
ing sleep* GUINNESS is a delicious
beverage full of natural goodness it
nourishes and sustains it restores
the wasted nerves —it stimulates the
flagging appetite.
GUINNESS makes you feel better
at once; taken daily it keeps you fit
and gives you a healthier and brighter
outlook.
Guinness
IS GOOD FOR YOU
N.B. One pint of Guinness Foreign Extra Stout has a malt carbo.
hydrate content equal to one and a half pints of pure dairy milk.
GF/A/K7
Murder?
A STORY OF A A JEW GUINEA MYSTERY, BY G. JL TURNBULL,
AUTHOR OF THAT FINE STORY “PARADISE FLUMES
IT was very pleasant on Professor Lang-
don’s verandah. The night was warm,
with the soft, sensuous warmth of the
tropics. The moon shone like silver inlay
in the heavens, blending black shadow and
white radiance into an alluring beauty; tall
palms silhouetted their plumed tops against
the soft sky; the whole world was wrapped
in scented mystery. New Guinea lays its
indefinable spell upon a man on such a
night; the romance of the land touches his
soul.
Yet the subject of debate on Professor
Langdon’s verandah was of all topics in the
world the most flagrantly out of accord with
the benign spirit of the night. It was
murder.
There is in civilised man, no matter by
what means he seeks to hide it, a curious
passion for the macabre. It found expres-
sion, naked and unashamed, in the old New
Guinea, where the ugly, the cruel, the sordid
were every-day commonplaces. Small won-
der that white men to whom New Guinea
had shown her claws unsheathed developed
a vein of callousness, of cold-bloodedness, of
appalling frankness in their approach to the
ruder inelegancies of life.
But Markham pierced our shell of flip-
pancy that night. We had talked glibly of
horrors unutterable, laughing where there
was no laughter. But Markham kicked the
props from under us. We felt that we and
our pretty stories were no longer of any
account whatsoever.
Professor Langdon, with his thin, clever
face and mild blue eyes, was an anthro-
pologist well on the way to the distinction
he has since achieved. Markham, the magis-
trate, was midway in the forties; a well-
set-up man with hair greying at the temples,
eyes cold and grey as a winter sea and an
inscrutable face, a face that screened every
thought, masked every emotion. He was
one of the star men of the old magistracy,
high in the confidence of the Administration,
and, to the younger fry, already something
of a legend. He gave one the impression
that he had not found life an amusing busi-
ness; that it had hit him, hit him hard;
that nothing had power to stir him now to
more than a shrug of the shoulders, the
slight uplifting of an eyebrow.
He startled us, he moved us; he left us
embarrassed, uncomfortable, so that pre-
sently we made excuses and drifted away,
one by one, into the obscurity of the night,
taking our questions and perplexities with
us.
“There are times.” he said, “when murder
may be a just and even a desirable thing.
I know. I ought to know.” He flicked the
ash from the excellent cigar he was smok-
ing. “You see, I am a—a murderer.” He
spoke quite calmly, without emotion of any
kind. Voice, glance, gesture were steady
and composed; yet they might have been a
spell freezing us into immobility. I saw
Langdon lift his head sharply He regarded
Markham with a peculiar intentness. Some-
thing flashed between them. Then Mark-
ham’s mask slipped. There was upon his
face an unforgettable look, a sort of despe-
rate and dreadful craving, as though some-
thing within him, long dead, had suddenly
come to life.
“Steady, old man!” Langdon said very
quietly. There was a softness in his voice,
an understanding sympathy, latent but un-
mistakable. For the fraction of a second
they held' each other’s eyes.. . Then Mark-
ham’s facial muscles seemed visibly to stiffen ;
the mask was in place again, inscrutable as
ever.
“Steady it is, Langdon,” he said. That
was all.
Markham left his bones somewhere in the
Jordan Valley. Somehow, I think he was
glad when the end came. Professor Lang-
don, who was his friend, knew his story—
the story of a man who played the god, of
another who was Dot fit to live, of a woman
who loved them both; a story of things
stealthy, malignant, not to be thought of;
as black and ugly a story as ever came out
of the old New Guinea. Here it is.
# * * *
Low and vibrant came the beat of drums.
The dulu [long house], the village huts, the
close-packed regiments of the soaring palms
made a sharp black pattern against the
luminous background of sky. Half-naked
figures, grotesquely painted, flitted through
the street where mongrel dogs disputed offal
with the obscene scavenger-pigs. The drums
throbbed out an urgent summons. The
people formed themselves into two rows,
advancing and receding with sinuous, sway-
ing movements. Their bare feet shuffled and
stamped upon the ground, their voices rose
and fell in a savage chant strangely weird
and discordant.
The familiar, all-pervading smell of grease
and filth and sweat assailed Markham’s nos-
trils. A faint smile touched his lips. A
year ago he would have hesitated to show
himself in Namuduri unsupported by the
rifles and bayonets of the police. The old
order was passing in Namuduri. Murder
and outrage, spoliation and rapine no longer
paid.
The moon peeped down through a filigree
of green foliage, bathing the dancers in a
silver light. There was something that, im-
pressed Markham as not being quite right,
something a little incongruous. The last
man in the front row had not quite accom-
modated feet and body to the rhythm of the
dance. He was definitely out of step. There
was sweat on his body, now and then his
teeth gleamed white —the teeth of one who
knew not betel-nut. Markham’s gaze be-
came an incredulous stare. He stiffened with
recognition. He felt Corporal Ninigu’s hand
on bis elbow and impatiently he shook it
off.
“You savee, sah?” the corporal asked in
a low, insistent voice.
“Hercva lasi!” [Shut up!] Markhain .
snapped. He walked on towards the station,
looking straight in front of him. He felt
suddenly sick.
Early next morning he sought out Lang-
don, who was camped in the rest-house.
“This fellow Fenwick,” he opened. “Tell
me about him. He worries me.”
Langdon frowned. “I can tell you no-
thing that you don’t know already,” lie
replied doubtfully. “He is working quite
independently of me, you know. The societies
who are financing him are world-renowned
and I have never met his equal as an
observer.”
“H’m!” Markham grunted. “Is he out
of bed yet? I’d like a word with him.”
Langdon looked troubled. “Asa matter
of fact, he—er”
“Stayed out all night, eh? I thought
so. If you ask me, Langdon, the fellow's
brain has sprung a leak. He was taking
part in the ulcarovi dance last night—painted
and oiled and feathered with the best of
’em. Frankly, old chap, I wish you’d per-
suade him to do his anthropologising with
his pants on.”
“Unorthodox —er —certainly.”
“Unorthodox! More than that, surely!
He’ll go completely nigger on us if we don’t
look out.”
“Arthur Fenwick is a scientist,” Langdon
returned gravely. “He serves a jealous
mistress, old man, a mistress who demands
from her servants complete surrender. None-
theless, I’m willing to admit that his theories
are a little startling. Taking off one’s
clothes and dancing with the lads of the vil-
lage is certainly not in accord with the best
traditions of scientific research. S.till, it
may all be part of a definite experiment. It
may be his way of establishing some im-
portant truth.”
Markham shook his head. He was more
perturbed than he cared to admit even to
his understanding friend. There had been
a queer, exalted confusion on Fenwick’s
face when he perceived that he had been
recognised, a defiant gleefulness in the way
he had thrown his body about and beaten
his drum. He was deriving some horrible
pleasure from an orgy of lust and savagery
which ought to have revolted him. He was
plumbing depths that were better left undis-
turbed, exploring a region where no decent
white man could follow him.
Markham derived little enough satisfac-
tion when, his mind still hot with indig-
nation, he tackled Fenwick later in the
day.
“I do not recognise any necessity for
justifying my actions,” Fenwick declared with
curt finality. “I am answerable to nobody
—except my principals. I have the utmost
respect for your character and attainments,
my dear Markham —but don’t interfere. If
you do I shall most certainly go over your
head, and the result will affect you less plea-
santly than you think.”
Markham flushed with an annoyance he
could not quite conceal. “My instructions
are to give you a free hand. I know my
duty,” he replied stiffly. He had an uneasy
feeling that Fenwick was laughing at him.
He was well aware that in a duel of words
he was no match for this crack-brained an-
thropologist. But mentally he likened him
to a carrion crow on a garbage heap.
Between them there grew up a sort of
armed neutrality—teetering, precarious. They
affected to ignore each other and succeeded
only in getting on each other’s nerves. Fen-
wick, under the blessing of headquarters, hld
the stick —and always he let Markham
know it.
When he casually informed Markham that
his young sister was coming to Namuduri
to keep house for him, Markbam was mildly
surprised.
“You know your own business best,” he
gruffly conceded, “but” His eye roved over
the brooding, sombre, inimical landscape, he
sniffed with faint distaste the murky breath
of the wind over the mangrove swamps—
“l’m damned if I’d bring a sister of mine to
this.”
Fenwick’s rather heavy features settled
themselves into an expression of amuse-
ment.
“Why not?”
Markham shrugged, saying nothing. It
was utterly impossible to reason with Fen-
wick. They lived in different worlds. Never-
theless, he made over the Residency to Fen-
wick and transferred himself and his belong-
ings to the quarters lately vacated by Lang-
don. Il'e didn’t like Fenwick. He didn’t
like him one damned bit. But the best
Namuduri had to offer was not too good
for the only white woman in that Heaven-
forsaken region.
There was a vividness about Lois Fen-
wick ; she was tall and straight and slim,
with a wealth of sunny hair piled high on
the top of her small head in the fashion of
that day—a golden-lily of a girl. She brought
an illusion of home to the barren and un-
lovely Residency, and ■when she smiled at
Markham his heart turned over. Little by
little, under the ironic eyes of Fenwick,
they slipped into a miraculous relationship.
He talked to her about his work, explained
his difficulties, expounded his theories. In
a few weeks she established herself firmly in
his solitary life. It was as if she had always
been there, a song on her lips, joy and
laughter in her eyes. His vision expanded,
his horizon widened inimitably—his woman,
soon to be claimed!
And Fenwick trod the dark and devious
path he had chosen. Rumors came to Mark-
ham’s ears, snatches of village gossip, vague
(Continued on next page.)


MEET DON BRADMAN AT MICK SIMMONS . . . WHEN HE RETURNS
IN NOVEMBER!
V
i
t
LU
Micß Simmons,
leaders in the
Australian
Sports World,
anticipating
great thing's
for 1930-31
Season, an-
nounce the
finest displays
of Bats and
CricKet Materi-
al ever display-
ed in the Com-
monwealth!
The new “Bradman” Series of Bats warrant special attention from every
zealous cricketer. The manufacturers) claim them to represent the highest
standard of hat craftsmanship ever turned out of England. Every player
will concur with this. All Bats personally autographed hy Don Bradman.
AUTOGRAPH BATS
By Wm. Sykes Ltd., Horbury, England
,(Makers of Test Bats for 56 Years)
4 CROWN 65/-
3 CROWN 56/6
2 CROWN 47/6
CLUB 37/6
HARROW SIZE 37/6
ƒgdfg
SPECIALLY SELECTED BATS
A few examples from the world's foremost makers!
M.S. SPECIAL—
All Cane, single rubber spec.
practice 15/-
Tornadic Driver, treble
rubber, with grip 25/-
SIIAW AND SHREWS-
BURY’S Autograph ... 50/-
STUART SURRIDGE—
Cert Driver 30/-
Daisy Cutter 32/6
Velocity Driver 40/-
Liglitning Driver 37/6
Invincible Driver 50/-
GUNN AND MOORE’S—
Diamond 42/6
DUKE AND SONS—
County Driver, selected,
with grip 33/6
County Driver, spec, sel.,
with grip 38/6
THE “CERTEST” LEATHER BALL
dfgdfg
Conforms to the famous M.C.C. Regulations.
Made especially for Australian conditions. Genuine
Six Stitcher. Guaranteed for 500 runs.
Price, 14/0
OTHER LEATHER BALLS
Duke’s Cert Special Match .. 15/6
Duke’s Match 16/6
Duke’s Special County .... 18/6
Perla Practice, six stitcher, 7/6
Crown, six stitcher, superior, 10/6
Treble Seam Practice 4/6
Kookaburra Match 12/6
MEN’S BATTING GLOVES
sdfg
Pair.
“Don Bradman” rubber protection, 11/6
Patent Surrey Shield, red rubber, 8/9
County Special, fabric, pull-011 glove,
with spiked rubber protection .. 9/9
Ditto, single hand only 5/9
COIR CRICKET MATS
“PERLA” DOUBLE WICKET OOIR MATS, XX quality, extra heavy-
weight, closely woven, leather bound, color green, two-piece, 6ft. wide, full
size, metal eyelets and spikes. Complete ’. . £9/10/-
‘PERLA” DOUBLE WICKET COIR MAT, X quality, heavyweight,
leather bound, color green, two-piece, 6ft. wide, full size. Complete with
metal eyelets and spikes £B/10/-
Carriage paid on aU Cricket Requisites except Cricket Mats, which are
carriage free in N.B.W. When Interstate, carriage free to the border.
All Letters to Box 188, P. 0., Haymarket, Sydney,
Mick Simmons Ixi>.
HEADQUARTERS: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
“The Leaders in Outdoor Sport and Home Entertainment
hints dropped by the police. Resolutely he
thrust them aside. Fenwick, with his scient-
ist’s passion for truth pure and undefiled,
was developing a theory by the time-honored
means of experiment and deduction. It took
him into strange places, this unending pur-
suit of his. But Markham was deceiving
himself—and knew it. Deep within him was
a sinister feeling that things too foul for
his orthodox understanding were happening
in Namuduri, abominable things. In the
gratification of an insatiate passion for the
morbid, Fenwick was wallowing in an in-
famous pit.
Lois grew silent, brooding, full of thoughts
that were not spoken, yet which she knew
Markham understood. And Markham, tongue-
tied, helpless, said nothing. He could not
speak of that cloud over her; he dared
not speak of that dark little shadow of
shame.
H'e wished Langdon was with him. But
Langdon had moved on, his work completed.
Langdon would give him sound advice. Lang-
don would “savee.” What ought he to do?
What was there to do? Fenwick was worry-
ing him intolerably. Lois came to him one
day, her eyes questioning, beseeching. “Some-
thing is wrong with Arthur,” she said. “He
is different—dreadfully different. Being his
sister, I—l feel his moods. I don’t suppose
you understand me.” She was unconsciously
twisting her hands against each other. Her
eyes were filled with a haunting dread. “This
work of his is harming him, corrupting his
fine mind, warping his whole nature.”
“You are imagining things. Perhaps”
“No! Where does he go so secretly, so
furtively? What is this dreadful obsession
that has taken possession of his mind ? That
makes him so intense, so absorbed, so—so
sub-human?” She thrust a sheaf of papers
into his hands. “Read these, please. I want
you to. And—and tell me.”
He would have detained her, but she went
away, looking over her shoulder as people
do when they feel unseen eyes upon them.
Markham read, and as his eyes travelled
over the closely-written pages a crawling sen-
sation of disgust invaded him. This was the
work of a man with a mouldering mind; a
jungle man diabolically endowed with the
gift of literary expression. Markham had
often wondered what went on in that grim
dtibu on the night of the gumuru ceremony.
He knew now. A chill crept into his spine.
A wave of nausea swept through him. His
brain reeled. It was an insult to his white
mind; it reeked of foulness, of unspeakable
abominations. And it was written by a man
who thirsted for more.
Markham felt a flame of anger burning
up within him. He must see Fenwick —see
him at once. There were limits to the price
he was prepared to pay for peace and quiet-
ness, limits beyond which Fenwick must not
be permitted to go. Surely this time he had
stepped beyond them!
“Arthur has gone,” Lois told him. There
was an immeasurable weariness in her eyes.
“H'e has gone—alone—out there.” And she
waved vaguely towards the bush. Her hands
stole out and touched him. He tingled to
their contact and the blood sang in his
ears.
“I’ll go out after him,” he heard himself
saying. “Bring him back. We must make
allowances. He is not as we are. Between
us we’ll lift him out of himself, teach him
not to live so hard, make him take more
rest and recreation.”
“Yes. Please God it may not be too j
late.”
And out of shame he could not answer ]
her.
But before he could fulfil his promise, more
pressing matters absorbed him. A raiding
party from the hills pounced on a coastal
hamlet—pounced and ravished and fled after
their fashion to their stronghold on the
flanks of the Main Range. Heads had been
taken, huts burned, maidens violated and
captives spared for a grimmer fate.
Markham and the police were hot on the
trail of the marauders before the ashes of
the burned huts were cold.
That was the old New Guinea. A con-
stant alternation of partial success and tem-
porary failure; success for a time and then
failure again. But always the white man’s
will to win continued persistent and un-
conquered.
The mountains were an imponderable
blur beyond the silhouettes of the forest
trees. The booming, sinister note of a drum
filtered through the jungle. Markham, every
nerve strung tight, crept stealthily towards
a red glow that showed between the trees.
He was there to make arrests for crimes
committed, not to engage in an orgy of bloody
reprisals. Corporal Ninigu, his carbine
at the ready, was hard on his master’s
heels.
Suddenly an agonised scream pierced the
stillness. Ninigu’s stocky body went rigid.
H'e came of a Gulf tribe to whom cannibalism
was an abomination and who loathed the
maneaters of the mountains.
“There is death here, Taubada,” he
growled, “blood here. Ia ! It is no good !”
The raiders were oblivious of everything
save their own foul orgy. The air throbbed
with the rhythmic dull cadence of drums,
the hymn of victory chanted by the war-
riors, the cheeping accompaniment of the
women.
Markham and the corporal were within
striking distance. Soon they would move
briskly into the firelight, whistle up the
police, and execute the King’s writ. There
were clouds athwart the moon, mercifully
hiding the scene of horror in the clearing.
Markham stood tense —waiting, watching,
listening. When the moon revealed itself
and faces were identifiable, then was the
time to make the arrests.
The obscuring clouds dragged slowly
across the smiling face of the moon. A
thick, throaty sound came from Ninigu.
“See, Taubada!” he growled. “See with
your eyes! He cannot be suffered to live—
that white man.” And a cartridge clicked
into the breech of his carbine.
Markham’s heart gave a sickening, violent
leap and then stood still. Momentarily he
closed his eyes as if that would banish the
horror that confronted him. Then his
muscles stiffened with a dreadful resolution.
Ilis eyes met Ninigu’s in a level glance. The
black man was right. That leering, grinning
madman in the clearing, that evil thing in
its ghastly regalia of blood—could not be
allowed to live.
He took Ninigu’s carbine from him,
stepped into the circle of light, and shot
Fenwick between the eyes.
Later he stood before Lois, a lie on his
lips. Yet he did not hesitate.
“We were too late. He was too far gone
when we picked him up—blackwater. We
buried him up there in the hills. I’m sorry,
Lois. I’m dreadfully sorry.”
Kith and Kind.
Upon a high-set mountain
Well known to me, that down
Goes sloping to green lowlands,
To-day I would be roaming;
For tired am I of turmoil,
And very tired of town.
If mine were for a moment
Aladdin’s magic lamp,
There at a wish I’d journey,
Care quitting and toil quitting,
And quitting crowded pavements
Where folk aweary tramp.
There, as I went a-walking
With light and airy tread,
Beneath me farm and orchard,
Green-patterned and far-spread,
My eyes on beauty feasting
I would not ask for bread.
Through shine and shadow moving
High joyance would be mine;
Knee-deep in dewy bracken,
About me oak and pine;
My lungs sweet air in-drinking,
I would not crave for wine.
Anigh me slender saplings
And bloodwoods tall and strong,
For man-made mirth and music
I would not greatly long;
For there I’d hear the bellbird,
And there the thrush’s song.
No craving would I harbor,
As on through leafy glooms
And golden gleams I wandered,
For odors and perfumes
More sweet than those out-stealing
From forest leaves and blooms.
Nor would I lack companions
To walk the heights with me,
For lovers, all true lovers,
Of bird and flower and tree,
All joyously in spirit
Would be my company.
Foot-free upon that mountain,
Where peace and joy abide,
Much, much I long to wander
From morn to eventide,
Flower-lovers and tree-lovers,
Bird-lovers at my side.
Bush-lovers and * sun-lovers,
Folk clean of heart and mind,
With them to walk in spirit—
My kith, my kin, my kind—
Town-lovers and world-lovers
I’d gladly leave behind.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Faery Islands.
The winds of the Faery Islands blow ever
east and west,
As soft as a lover’s whisper or ringdoves in
the nest;
Or a skylark in the morning, o’er dewy lands
awing,
When Youth from her cup is spilling a
new white wine of spring.
The Queen of the Faery Islands, like to a
willow-tree
O’er a placid mill pool bending, walks slim
and gracefully.
Her hair is the silken seaweed, her skin
as sea-foam white
On a beach where naked maidens bathe in
the cool moonlight.
Her lips are red coral, cloven; her voice of
music through
The pearls of her mouth is luted to fall as
scented dew;
Her eyes are blue seas in summer under a
cloudless sky.
They dream, but in calm deeps hidden their
magic secrets lie.
* * * *
Green shores of the Faery Islands are circled
by golden sands ;
On a hill of that shining foreland, where a
tall white castle stands,
Each night on a stately turret doth a clear
light strangely glow,
As ships go by in the darkness. But the
shipmen surely know
The Queen of the Faery Islands in that high
cliff-castle dwells,
By the lamps of St. Elmo lighted, and she
hears their passing bells,
Tolling the notes of departing as ever and
aye they wend
Their way to the land Hy-Brasil that lies at
the Journey’s End.
By her magic casement standing she calleth
so tenderly
Faiewell to her lovers passing away on the
starry sea,
With their yearning arms, for ever, enhun-
gered of love they go,
Still thralled by a gleaming vision, though
each m his own heart know
That the strings of her harp enchanted, be-
musing his life-long dreams,
Are woven of fairy silver from the sands
of Lethe s streams;
That her breasts are cold white corals and
never, while earth is green,
Shall man that is born of woman enclasD
her, his Faery Queen.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BEADY.


dfg
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.,
v"r‘ n^ n f t - S T: HO^MES ® CHURCH. Brisbane.
X.&. Grace—-93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
«««th4?. c ?.„. Ce *~“P ha, lL tepy Hm,se ” 485 R ourke Street. Melbourne.
South Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., FTD., Adelaide, S.A.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
“THE AGE”
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
Established 185 If.
ADVERTISERS!
The Court instructs every Jury to keep an
open mind, and record a verdict according to
the evidence placed before them.
When considering future allocations for Vic-
toria, weigh the following evidence for “The
Age.”
Audited' net Sales 122,501 daily
(60% Metropolitan—4o% Country).
Over 96% of distribution home
delivered to subscribers. ■
Over 95% of home deliveries remain
in the household for reading during
1 the day.
And over 1,000,000 advertisements
are published in its columns annually.
“The Age’s” dominant note is "Australia
First,” and its effect on the minds of
readers and power for good to the Common-
wealth are incalculable.
Further information, and rates on application
to the principal Service Agents in all States,
or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
47 Fleet Street, London.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
%
JiH
fg
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement' backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH k HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial Increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1920,
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
3© Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
the mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
(Established 1834)
The “Mercury” is the only Metro-
politan Newspaper in the State.
Its news services, articles, typo-
graphy are unexcelled in Australia.
THE “MERCURY” COVERS
TASMANIA
And its circulation exceeds the
combined figures of the dailies in
Tasmania. Delivered by fast motor-
cars, it reaches Launceston (121
miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before break-
fast.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. E. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Meibourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
Che Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
• by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of ‘-THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-state agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Got oh, price \id.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Experimenting!
How much a year do
you waste in unneces-
sary experiments?
Cut waste and
advertise with a
“Result Bringer.”
“The
Telegraph ”
(ißrisbane)
Has proved itself over
58 years a good “Result
Bringer” for all adver-
tisers.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Sydney Representative:
N. L. ROBERTS,
Country Press Co-op. Co. of Aust., Ltd.,
Barrack Street. Sydney.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
*
7sb
Cvi
p\
1&
with ;
«teeney^ t b *e *f 4 S green]
V «•» secrets
» s ' weU ?s Unmakes the®!
the eyes W 1 i m» K Yellow-,
snowy- ? ttt Uow-tingao; n It.
duU and constipate lsonS .
tinge pastes .f^ystetni
bftvcleit ttt^oc
are
ValtViand aV \ nsU t ab\e|
sS 1 £j rsfc-isa
tto£ disappeat'
Worth a Guinea a Box
“The Examiner”
Tasmania’s Oldest Daily Newspaper. Established 1842.
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s Best
Illustrated Weekly is the
“Weekly Courier”
Published
Every
Wednesday
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE ,
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 8 months from
for which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
T"
(V
0°
2 6V
„ s e V* 6
/S® e
•*v »' ... "
■ ••••
i>NV
#•’


Essex Value of Values
H
ft
n
PERFORMANCE
Won Tour de France in 1929, won
second place in 1930—beaten only by
Hudson’s Great Eight. Set new records
during Challenger Week tests through-
out the world in economy, speed, reli-
ability, hill-climbing and acceleration.
APPEARANCE
Distinguished in lines and colours —qual-
ity is evident in the harmonious fittings
and upholstery. In every detail, the fine
workmanship and quality of materials
are readily discerned.
EQUIPMENT
The New Essex Challenger is fully
equipped with every instrument a well-
fitted car should have —fuel and oil gauge
on the dash, starting button on the dash,
four hydraulic shock absorbers for the
easiest riding qualities and light controls
conveniently mounted on the top of the
steering column.
m9u tOkrss a*™-*
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY,
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales. .
Victoria ...»
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
136 Phillip Street, Sydney.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
Queensland WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia . . MOTORS, LTD.,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
Tasmania
. H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LI
53 Bathurst Street, Hobart
