

My,
,0*
h
m.
k
?/.
3 MORE
ff
Qualiti) Quantitij
You hold an ace . . . you buy three more of them
. . . the winning hand . . . your luck’s right in.
But luck changes. How many hands will you
play before you buy three more like that again?
You can always buy three more cigarettes, at
any rate, for your usual 1/6. No question of
luck either; just a matter of remembering
this name “Country Life”.
Country Life give you 23 cigarettes for 1/6, cork-
tipped too, made from fresh, carefully chosen
Virginia tobacco and packed in a swagger tin.
23
|^~j
and
1I 7 '
also in tins of
50 and 100
Country Life
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA
CICARETTES
Made in Your Own Country at The Garden Factory—Raleigh Park—by W.D.&. H.O. Wills (Australia) Ltd.
The Bulletin
*itwo .
Vol. 51.—No. 2653.
Wednesday, December 17, 1930.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


GIVE BOOK PRESENTS.
72-page “XMAS CATALOGUE” Now Ready.
Posted Free Anywhere, on Request.
DYMOCK'S BOOK ARCADE,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
G.P.O. Box 1521 DD.
ill
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON! '
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
5.8.316
UYSAGHT
o
3
AUSTRALIA
DON’T Increase our Overseas Debt
Buy Australian-made goods. Create employ-
ment. Build up a prosperous contented, big
population. Cut down imports. By using
Lysaght’s Galvanized Iron you get the world s
best, and every penny of the cost remains in
Australia. *
LYSAGHT’S
Galvanized Iron
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
jhj
THE DINNER
Host Holbrook Says:
“ My Worcester-
shire Sauce is mat-
ured like an old
wine. It has a
piquancy that age
alone can impart.
Just a few drops
with the Soup, Fish,
or Meat. Ah I the
finishing touch to a
good dinner.”
&
A
i
z
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
ARTISTIC GIFTS
CHEAP AND CHARMING.
Designed, Printed and Produced in Australia,
REMEMBRANCE BOOKLETS
REMEMBRANCE BOOKLETS
Delightful gifts for all occasions. Specially welcome
for Christmas and New Year. Beautiful little booksr
Will he appreciated more than conventional
Christmas Cards.
USE INSTEAD OF XMAS CARDS.
USE INSTEAD OF XMAS CARDS.
See them at all good booksellers and stores.
Mateship (Henry Lawson)
Love, Life and Loyalty (Elbert Hubbard)
Friendship (Emerson)
The Divine in Man (Elbert Hubbard)
Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam
A Message to Garcia (Elbert Hubbard)
Neatly boxed with suitable inscriptions.
Price 2/- each (postage 3d.).
THE BEST BOOK OF ITS KIND.
THE ABORIGINAL WORD BOOK,
By JUSTINE KENYON.
With a foreword by A, S. Kenyon.
This is the most authentic collection of aboriginal
words and their meanings which has ever been
published, and has been most favorably received by
press and public. This compilation has meant many
years of research, and the author is an authority on
the subject.
SPECIAL FEATURE.—A coupon is enclosed with
each book, which entitles the purchaser to obtain
direct from the author the correct meaning of any
aboriginal word. By this means the enquirer will
be prevented from making his home a laughing-stock
to those who know the correct meaning of, aboriginal
words. Artistically boxed. Price 2/-; postage 2d.
The Lothian Publishing Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Rialto, 497 Collins Street, Melbourne.
jhj
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B. Melbourne.
See ifie Great lakes
cross Canada bqßaif
and Steamer,
me
Ji '
The C.P.R. Great Lakes Steamer
route offers a delightful break on
the way to Europe. Only two
nights by train across Canada —
then the vast holiday land of the
Lakes region beaches camps
many new experiences. Large airy
cabins, spacious on Lakes
Steamers, and the renowned Can-
adian Pacific comforts and service, j
Write for illustrated literature.
Canadian Pacific,
247 George Street,
Sydney.
TRAINS - steXmers hotels
TheWorldsjjreatest travel system
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
contains everything that women
should know—from kitchen to
drawing-room, from cradle to
old age. It is the most remark-
able threepenny - worth ever
printed.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
3d.
The Red Page
A Benefit to Bayldon
Twas the evening of a beautiful Sydney
day in October—one of Sydney’s rare days;
Sydney’s velvety days; one of the few
days when Sydney never wearies of re-
minding itself that it is a beautiful day.
At eight o’clock the Fellowship of Aus-
tralian Writers gathered in force, in style,
in state, in awe, on the polished eleventh
floor of St. James Buildings. Any other
time it would have gathered in rank,
in file, in neglige, on the'dusty third floor
of the Education Buildings. But on this
evening the light of distinction, of fame,
glory and greatness would be cast upon its
members and upon the limited friends of
its members at a charge of two shillings per
friend. “The Bight Honorable Earl Beau-
champ”—so read headquarters’ mobilising
command —“who has always shown interest
in Australian literature, will be the Fellow-
ship’s guest of honor... .and the president,
Professor Le Gay Brereton, will preside.”
So the crowded lift with its first consign-
ment of Fellowship freight rose speedily to
the polished eleventh floor, and, emptying
its chattering, fluttering, smiling burden on
to the landing into the eai’e of the crepe
de Chine, lace-covered hostesses, descended
and rose again, descended and rose again,
and again, and yet again, till the polished
eleventh floor was packed with Australian
writers and friends of Australian writers
tossing back their furs, wondering where
to put their hats, and eyeing and scanning
space for an advance glimpse of the Bight
Honorable Earl.
Upon the brow of the aged rested the
pale cast of thought; from off the tongues
of cynics came words of sullen satire;
out of the mouths of others gushed words
of borrowed wisdom; in the eyes of seers
blinked rays of mellowed light; and in those
of budding authors beamed the hope that
springs eternal.
In charge of the president, the Earl, in
a racy suit and a red, red rose, entered.
Bending low he bowed, smiled, and took
their applause.
Then a hush, and the president, earnest,
concerned, rose to say how joyed they were
to have the guest with them that even-
ing, a patron of Australian literature when,
away back in the days of Sydney Bohemia
—the days when poets were poets and beer
was beer—he was their own cheerful Gov-
ernor. (Great hand-clapping and stamp-
ing of feet on the polished boards of the
eleventh floor.) Passing a slim hand
through his head of vanishing hair, he
announced that Arthur Bavldon, the poet,
the man, the scribe, their brother, lay ill
abed. “ ’Twould be real fellowship indeed
to render help,” he said; “and a public
meeting is called by the Lord Mayor of this
great city of Sydney, the centre, the Mecca
of Australian literature, art and music, at
the Town Hall on Wednesday, at 4 p.m.,
for the purpose. You are all required at
that meeting,” and, “as Fellowshippers, we
know you will attend.” (Applause and
stamping of feet greater than before.)
Wednesday The great city clock
boomed out the hour of four as if drooling
for the dead. Inside the great hall all was
silence, peace and sanctity. The minutes
sped The faithful clock boomed out
the quarter-hour Two Fellowshippers
accustomed to being late mounted the wide
steps, and stealthily thrust their heads in
before entering. A sea of empty chairs
met their gaze. Peeping again they saw
at one end a number of gloomy figures
sitting round a huge table. They tiptoed
in and swelled their number to a fatal
13. Presently entered the Lord Mayor,
attended by his clerk. He gazed wonder-
ingly upon the meeting. The meeting gazed
pathetically upon him. The president rose
and spoke from his heart of the sick poet.
But he seemed ill himself. Leaning forward
he dropped a cheque upon the wide, bare
table. It fell light as a snowflake, to lie
there in loneliness and unmolested. Brother
Jago rose. He, too, seemed weak in health,
and spoke soulfully. Perhaps because the
peace and sanctity around contrasted
strangely with the noise and enthusiasm on
the polished eleventh floor of St. James
Buildings.
Then the Lord Mayor himself rose up.
He betrayed no feelings of expitement.
Except for traces of an election fray upon
his brow he was calm, even unconcerned.
Resting his eyes on the empty chairs, he
spoke of the sick poet as “Mister Balldon”;
and said his works were read far and wide,
and the name “Balldon” was a household
word. And he might have gone on to solicit
donations from the wealth} 1, of Australia’s
Mecca of literature, had not a messenger
like a court-lackey in Shakspearean drama
made timely entrance to whisper secret
words to him. “So now,” concluded the
Lord Mayor, “I am required in another
chamber; and if there’s no further busi-
ness”—
There was no further business that any-
one could hear of, except to return his
official bow as he departed, and continue
cogitating on the benefit to Bayldon!
STEELE RUDD.
In the Grand Manner
Arnold Bennett’s enormous eleven-and-
sixpenny Imperial Palace (Cassell, London;
the Roycroft Library, Sydney) supplies
further evidence that the novel is reverting
to type. Like J. B. Priestley’s last two books
this one is in the tradition of the picaresque
novels of Dickens and Thackeray, Balzac
and Zola. It has 630 page's and 85 charac-
ters. Such works may have fragmentary
plots, and they may be circumscribed by
their themes, but they have a supreme merit
m common; almost every type and class
oi person figure in them. Most modern
novels are no more than what the Germans
call novelten —elongated short stories. Their
writers can see a small circle, or situation,
or emotion with penetrating clearness, and
58 ca n see. The masters are
able to take a vast and complicated society,
made up of their own nationals and foreign-
ers; rich, not so rich, and poor; good,
bad and indifferent, and handle its person-
alities and institutions with knowledge, and
the detachment of men of the world. Apart
from the high gift of expression, and a pas-
sionate interest in life in all its aspects, they
have the barrister’s faculty for getting up a
case. Arnold Bennett might have been a
doctor in “Lord Raingo,” and he might be a
hotel manager in Imperial Palace, which is a
sort of super-Claridges. The knowledge
he displays of the organisation of the mon-
strous place will surprise even those who saw
the Grand Babylon through his eyes.
The action begins at 4 a.m. Evelyn
Orch/im, the director, a presentable widower
of 4/, and a genius at his job, leaves for
tomithfield with his meat-buyer. The market
is described in detail. The hotel wakes up,
and the director motors to his laundry at
Kennington, which is also described in
detail. He comes back, visits his kitchens,
attends a meeting of shareholders, has a
mess-luncheon with his staff, inspects the
new artesian well (“Electric pump. Blow
the water straight up on to the roof. We
use 22,000 gallons of water an hour at the
Palace. And soft water. This is the only
hotel in London that has soft water”);
settles differences between his countless
employees, and, while engaged on these and
countless other duties, has a rather bored
liaison with Gracie Savott, spoiled daughter
of a millionaire baronet who wants to do
business with him. But love-making is only
an interlude in the book, as it is in Orcham’s
crowded life. Gracie marries a less pre-
occupied man, and Orcham makes an alto-
gether suitable match with his head house-
keeper. The principal characters are amoral
and not an engaging lot on the whole; but
they throb with life, as all Bennett’s char-
acters do. However, the characterisation
doesn’t really matter, brilliant though it is.
Imperial Palace is a classic of its sort,
and perhaps the best thing this great writer
has done, chiefly for its matchless mass-
pictures of life in the West End of London,
and in the luxury-hotel quarter of Paris—
environments which attract between them
almost every human type. The book should
stand for many a year as a full, unbiased
and entirely competent picture, of the way
the very rich lived in 1930.
JOHN DALLEY.
Oberammergau, 1930
Just about this time something like
200,000 people will have decided finally
that the Passion Play at Oberammergau is
the finest thing of its kind, while another
200,000, with the memory of expensive pur-
chases of wood-carving fresh in their minds,
will decide that _the whole affair is nothing
but a huge commercial proposition. And
both sections will be right.
It is certain that the people of Oberam-
mergau are animated by a deep religious
fervor, and that they regard their per-
formance of the Play of the Passion as
being a piece of practical missionising; but
there is no mistaking the fact that it is a
commercial proposition, too. Rightly so; for
to cope with the huge crowds which flock
to the play the villagers liave had to build
a large theatre at a cost of something near
3,000,000 marks, and to do this they had to
issue bonds. Moreover, a large percentage
of the wage-earners in the town have to
give up a considerable amount of their time
during the preparation for the play and
practically all their time during the five
months or so that the play runs, and they
have to be remunerated. Also the villagers
are required by local laws to renew the
paintings which adorn the walls of the
houses for the year of the play, and this
is no sm, n " vm in itself. The truth is
that the people of Oberarpmergau live in a
comm''- ■' 1 age, and they have to treat this
play • ro a commercial standpoint or the
village ould cease to exist.
Similarly with the play itself. It is no
use trying to make allowances for any
errors that occur on the grounds that the
{Red Page continued on page 6.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING "—Anthony Horderns ? say it and mean it.
Be Practical this Christmas /
Let your Gifts be as Useful
as they are Distinctive
-fik
m
THE HARBOUR m
BRIDGE JhWL
i
ANTHONY HORDERN 6i SONS. LTD
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY
14/6 Folding
Card Table NOW
%
The “Harbour” Bridge Table will make an ideal Christmas gilt. It
is made entirely of Australian materials and is obtainable only at
Anthony Horderns’. The top is of stout Mill-board with wood sur-
round, the corners being strengthened with nickel-plated brackets.
When the table is in use the legs are held firmly in place by nickelled
brackets, but when not in use they fold within the area of the top, thus
making the table easy to pack away. The top is covered with Baize
in green or blue. Size, 29 x 29 inches. Price 14/8
Reduced to 9/11
j
“Chilcott” Ice Chests
The “Chilcott” Ice Chest, obtainable only
at Anthony Horderns’, has many points of
superiority. “There is always Ice in a ‘Chib
cott.’ ” With Galvanised food chamber,
prices, £4/17/6, £5/15/-, £6/17/6.
With Porcelain food chamber—
Prices £6/15/-, £7/15/-, £B/17/6
SEES
n
f
3 =
“Forest Book Case, 75,-
The “Forest” Book Case, shown at
left, has clear glass panelled doors, and
is fitted with adjustable shelves. It is
36 inches wide, 54 inches high, and 1 1 \
inches deep. This Book Case is made
of Oak, finished in natural color or
Dark Nut Brown shade. Price, 75/-
ĵ
£l4/15/- Settee Hammock, £9/19/6
Just imagine the delight with which this Hammock will be received if
you make it one of your gifts. It is the ultra comfortable lounge for
outdoor and verandah use. The De Luxe Settee Hammock has
diamond-mesh spring mattress, also overlay mattress with valance, and
is covered with strong striped ticking. Canopy adjusts to any desired
angle. Many delightful hours of restful comfort will be spent in the
inviting shade of this useful addition to the home. And notice the
big saving in price! Price £l4/15/-
Reduced to £9/19/6
Bureau, 79/6
The “Gordon” Bureau is 33 inches wide and
is fitted with drop' front, drawer and cup-
board. Made of Oak, finished either light
or dark shade. This will make a welcome
gift. The value is remarkable, and you
will find the bureau very well made.
Price 79/6
<SY-
Hi
42/6 Service Waggon, 19/11
The “General” Service Waggon, made
in our own factory of Oak, finished
Natural or Dark Brown. Useful
drawer in end. Mounted on smooth-
running rubber-tyred castors.
Price 42/6
Reduced to 19/11
&
(Furniture Dept., Ground Floor. Delivered
Free City and Suburbs only.)
Even if you do not want to buy these attractive items for Christmas gifts* you may want them
for some other occasion. Do not be deterred by the possible inconvenience of making the full
cash outlay at once. You can use our “D.P.S.” and pay a deposit, then the balance by instal-
ments. On completion of payments, the goods will be delivered in the usual way. No interest
is charged.
Anthony Horderns'
'Phone: M 2401
Day and night.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O,


wmcmsm
TRADEMARK
Make Sure of Your Game
WINCHESTER shot guns and Winchester
weatherproof shot shells are great game
getters.
Whether you are shooting for
game or at the traps, you will find a
Winchester Shot Gun a dependable
team-mate. Perfect balance—Safe-
Strong—Hard-hitting. Their satisfy-
ing shooting Qualities have
made them favorites
the world ovep
ĵh
*>»<
■srs
-BJi
<e>^
SR
fe«f*
Model 12. Light,
strong, the “perfect
repeater.” Hammerles3
cake-down, 12, 16 and 20
gauge.
Model 97. A six*shot hammer
repeater of world wide-popularity.
12 gauge only.
Model 41. Single Shot. 410 bolt
action shot gun.
With Winchester perfect pattern shells
they make the ideal shooting combination.
Leader— Repeater Speed Loads —Repeater
—Ranger—Nublack.
For sale by dealers everywhere.
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN, CONN.. U. S. A.
Always use Winchester Ammunition with
t Winchester Arms —they are made for each other.
A
% %
•me*
03 US
5^
a m a
8 M 4
- | 111
/
*
sc*
~cT. v .
V xi*»'''n^
'iJSfr'i'T^" 1
S-'-'W:
NkW':
\v.<' lII-
SB
/a
//
7
5
u
The perfect gift*
Every woman longs to wear
that marvel of good taste
and accuracy.... an Omega
wrist watch.
If you want your gift to be
appreciated - forever - let it
be an
Omega
EXACT TIME
FOR LIFE
II any illustration in **THE BULLETIN’*
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Australian-made Pump
♦
ge;
Si
'SjßSilSi'
. ..
M
*%&*?»:* ®
“Acme”
Hand Pump
Famous
“MACSON
Double-
acting
Piston
Pump,
“Macson”
Pumps
can be
supplied
coupled direct
to electric
motor or
engine.
This is one of the best Hand Pumps procurable.
Suitable for general pumping, spraying, filling
tanks, fire-fighting, etc.
Brass valve seats are fitted, which are, of course,
far superior to the common iron seat fitted to
other pumps.
Because of the Cog-geared Head, the “Acme'’
requires one-third less manual labor to work it.
Will give 2000 gallons per hour, and is fitted
for 2in. pipes.
Prices on application.
Send for this!
Our Pump Catalogue shows many types of Hand and
Power-driven Pumps designed for Agricultural and
Industrial use.
Full particulars of each type are given, together with
prices and capacities.
Details of piping, fittings, Spray Pumps, etc., also
shown.
Fill in and send this coupon now.
Please send me your Pump Catalogue,
Post FREE.
Name
Address
A splendid pump for general water-supply work.
Has proved very useful on farms, stations and in factories.
In making this pump at our own works, we embodied several exclusive
features which renders the “Macson” superior to all other pumps of a
similar type.
The cylinder is fitted with an exceptionally heavy brass liner which is
practically everlasting. To prevent leaking or blowing out at the cylinder
head, it and the cylinder casing is cast in one piece.
Obtainable in five sizes, giving outputs of 424 galls, to 3550 galls, per
hour at 250 R.P.M. Sizes are for l-J-inch to 3-inch piping.
Prices on application.
M^Pficrson%>
Proprietary Limited
“DEPENDABLE GOODS SINCE 1860.”
“RAPID” Centrifugal Pumps
are noted for their efficiency and
low running costs.
h
Centrifugal Pumps are used where large quantities of
water are required, pressure being a secondary consideration.
"Rapid” Centrifugal Pumps are of a most modern design
and are very economical to run.
The type illustrated above is a Single Stage, for heads
up to 50 feet.
We manufacture Two-Stage and Multi-Stage Pumps for
greater heads.
The bowl of “Rapid” Pumps can be swivelled to any
angle, so that the cost of pipe bends is reduced to the
minimum.
For pumping acids and chemicals we make pumps of
suitable metal to withstand the action.
Made in several sizes: For lin. pipes (1200 galls, per
hour) up to Gin. pipes (36,000 galls, per hour), and
larger if required.
If desired, can be supplied fitted to Electric Motor or
Engine.
Prices and particulars on request.
We Carry Large Stocks of
Have you
had our
General
Catalogue ?
Copies on
application.
Piping and Fittings, Pipe
Tools, Farmers* Tools and
Tools for Orchardists, Saw-
millers, Garages, Motorists,
Plumbers, Tinsmiths,
Engineers, Woodworkers,
Ironfounders, Mines, etc.
582-592 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE
51-65 BATHURST STREET SYDNEY
116-130 WAYMOUTH STREET ADELAIDE
532 MURRAY STREET PERTH


Z:Jj
H S
i
t(scl>
19
SHIRTS
PYRMAS & SOFT COLLARS
WHEN you have neatly adjusted a tie that
harmonises with a “ LUVISCA ” Shirt
and Collar, you face the day’s affairs with an
easy mind. There is special satisfaction in
knowing that the silky fabric and its smart
colourings will meet the most rigorous con-
ditions. See the new effects now available.
Sold by all Leading
Stores.
LOOK
FOR
THE
REGIS-
TERED
TAB:
-v*
If any difficulty in
obtaining, please
write
THOROLD,
HARPER & CO.
PTY., LTD.,
308 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.
181 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
COUR
performers are simple peasants. They’re
not, and every man Jack of them has re-
ceived careful tuition in the matter of stage-
craft. They all know how to walk and
talk, and have to be judged by ordinary
standards. For that reason, when looked at
dispassionately, the play, in the portrayal
of the chief characters, is rather disappoint-
ing. The Christus is, on the whole, feeble,
and J ohn and Peter are respectively a sawny
boy and a febrile old man. Judas is a
ranting miser who appears to be mad with
intervals of lucidity, while the women are
all rather syrupy. The two best-played and
best-drawn parts are those of Pilate and
Herod, and one would go far to find a better
Pilate than the one played by the carpenter
Melchior Breitsamter. On the whole, how-
ever, the play, judged by ordinary standards,
is good; the gorgeous colorings and the
organisation of the scenes command the
attention continually.
What does strike one as being really
remarkable is the -fact that if not a single
outsider showed up for the thing it would
still be produced! That is the outstanding
feature of the Passion Play at Oberammer-
gau, and it is probably that fact, more than
anything else, which draws the huge poly-
glot crow’ds every 10 years to the valley of
the Ammer.
ENGLAND.
J. E. I. CAIRNS.
Jazz, Sex Appeal, etc.
Jazz is not a variety of music. It is some-
thing that is done to music. Even good
music can be jazzed. Rubinstein’s Melody
in F makes a capital foxtrot. Bits of
Chopin’s Funeral March can be worked in
by a snappy orchestra if the tempo is gin-
gered up a little. I am not trying to
horrify our best musical people; but when
one observes several of them, in The
Bulletin, belaboring popular tunes simply
because someone has jazzed them, it surely
is time to explain.
“Tiptoe Through the Tulips” played on
the Town Hall organ would not be jazz;
it would be what its composer intended—
a popular air. The “Old Hundredth” synco-
pated by the Carolina Kid’s Saxophonic
Tune Twisters would no longer be a hymn.
It would be jazz.
It is rather unfair not to distinguish be-
tween a tune and what some unmusical
idiot chooses to do to it. Lots of people
whose main interests in life are remote*
from music nevertheless like music. Being
unsophisticated in that particular respect,
they like simple tuneful stuff, and being
human they like a frequent change. Surely
it is not claimed that in singing or whist-
ling or banging out on the piano such dit-
ties as “Bye, Bye Blackbird,” or “Lady, Be
Good,” they are committing musical sin.
Least of all can it be said that these things
offer any sexual stimulus.
Not even when such songs are jazzed and
danced to (and I have done my share) can
there be noticed anything provocative of
sexual excitement. Persons who make that
sort of accusation against jazz are making
themselves appear absurd. There is more
sex appeal in a throaty contralto reaching
for the top note of a chaste drawing-room
ballad than in all the jazz orchestras in Aus-
tralia.
I stand somewhat in awe of these tremen-
dously musical people. When they train
the heavy artillery of musical criticism
on the latest scrap of melodious nonsense
that has caught my fancy I shrink. Can I
not lightly strum the strains of “Honolulu
Moon” or “Painting the Clouds with Sun-
shine” on my ukulele without hearing a
heavy voice from Olympus talking in omin-
ous tones of “jungle rhythms” and “negro
brothels”?
F. D. DAVISON.
An Australian Essayist
If Angus and Robertson had done no
other good deed in Australian literature it
could rest contented enough in the memory
that its imprimatur had been given to
Speaking Personally, by Walter Murdoch.
This Page commends the book out of hand
as a brilliant collection of essays, a rare
spread of thoroughly delightful reading.
To pick petty faults with it would be
niggardly; to compare it is unnecessary. It
is the most important collection of essays
ever published in Australia. Unhappily, the
ranks of lovers of true essays—the “true” to
distinguish from sermons, papers, addresses
and whatnot other gatecrashers at the party
of Elia—appear to be as limited as those
of lovers of poetry. Neither essayists nor
poets are blameless in this. The propor-
tion of bad to good in both forms has
probably filled readers with distrust. But
for those who do like an essay there will
be a long searching before this collection
is bettered from current shelves.
Professor Murdoch (English, of West-
ralia’s university) is an Australian writer in
the best sense of that abused term; in the
sense that, writing in Australia, he writes
naturally. He makes no parade of this
country, but wherever in the world his book
is read he will be thought of as an (perhaps
the ) Australian essayist. That, of course,
is not why he will be enjoyed. He will be
enjoyed because, writing naturally, he is
natural, has the touch of nature. His work
is not flippant, in the Elia-and-water man-
ner of the many current “essayists” who
should spring to mind without being named.
He goes deep, and founds on solid. It is
only his touch that is light. For instance,
his antidote for any dosing of high-flown
verbiage, pomposity, grandiloquence, hum-
bug, the jargon of the crank, the smooth
insincerities of the public speaker, political
platitudes, rhetorical nonsense—is tripe and
onions. You merely have to think of Lady
Dorothy Nevill’s contribution to a society
discussion on food, “Me? Oh, gimme a
good blow-out on tripe and onions!” and
you are saved. Tripe and onions is tripe
and onions no longer. It is the name of a
formula, the core of a philosophy.
For the sake of its humor alone, Speak-
ing Personally would have to go on to the
Shelf of Books that Are Not Lent if it were
not such an eminently lendable book. It
can be quoted from at random. This sample
is typical: the essay is based on a Japanese
religion “Seizaho,” the “Method of Quiet
Sitting”; Professor Murdoch credits a dis-
ciple, Kishimoto, with having written:—
“A man whose centre of gravity is not stabilised
is always irresolute, hasty, timorous; he lacks self-
confidence, power of perseverance, and thinking;
whereas a person whose centre of gravity is firmly
fixed in the right place is full of self-confidence and
resolution; his words or deeds are never hurried or
frivolous. Actuated by the reserve courage within
him, he can on occasion, fight the savage tiger with
bare fists and face a thousand armed men single-
handed.” He is also, adds our author, “capable
of deep and sustained thinking, and his power of
perseverance is such that he can sit in meditation
for nine years.”
These are large claims. That results so salutary
should be produced by merely sitting about on the
floor will seem incredible to the Western mind, with
its ineradicable prejudice in favor of energetic rush-
ing hither and thither. To say that, after practising
the system for a few weeks, one would probably
welcome with relief any incident whatsoever—even
a visit from the “savage tiger with bare fists” —
would be to speak in a frivolous tone which I do
not wish to adopt about a new religion. It certainly
does seem to exert a far-reaching influence on those
who come under its sway. For instance, 20 years
ago Kinoshita Naoe was a well-known journalist and
fiery socialist writer and speaker. Seizaho has cured
him so completely that whenever, in second-hand book-
shops, he finds copies of the socialist books and
pamphlets he wrote in bygone days, he buys them
and destroys them. Some people will think that
this bears out Kishimoto’s rather bewildering state-
ment that the system “strengthens the stomach, the
intestines and sense of justice.”
Extracts, however, are poor things to offer
as a substitute for this sort of original. The
book is published at ss.
More Abo. Tales
Readers who found pleasure in Ramsay
Smith’s collection of abo. myths and legends,
lately published by Harrap, will search in
vain for the same brand of picturesqueness
and, perhaps, arty-tarty story-telling in
Woggheeguy, by Catherine Stow (Preece;
Bs. 6d.). They may, however, be tempted
to sigh, “This is more like business,” as
they go through these “woggheeguy”; these
tales told by the abos. to the writer, who, by
the way, breaks a long silence as author
with this publication.
Much of the Ramsay Smith collection is
highly colored; his book fits naturally into
the collection of literary folklore in which
it has been given a place. Catherine Stow’s
tales are more convincingly primitive.
There is a nakedness about them that makes
them seem to belong. They are plain and
unvarnished, and yet quick with the life that
is found in Lawson and in Prichard’s prose
fiction. The arrival of the sun through the
hurling and the burst of an emu’s egg; the
kangaroo developing into a semi-biped
through an over-curious imitation of abos.
in corroboree; the hand Wahn the crow
took in the making of girl babies—all the
central ideas seem to spring from authentic
sources. Altogether it is a fine book,
cleverly illustrated by Nora Heysen, and so
well printed and bound that there is
pleasure in merely looking at it. First-
rate for gift purposes.
A Satchel of Books
Australian Books. —Three children’s Christ-
mas-git't books of special Australian and
Maoriland appeal enter the Satchel from
Cymocks—“The Gang on Wheels,” by D.
Lindsay Thompson, relating the adventures of
a bunch of schoolboys in a broken-down car ,
“Haunted Island,” by Isabel M. Peacocke;
and “There Came a Call,” by Lilian Turner,
both suitable for either boys or girls. All
are published by Ward, Lock, at 4s. net.
The G-olden Forest , by Edith Howes
(Dent; 6s. net). One of the outstanding
children’s books of the season. The writer,
a Maorilander, is already well known for
stories that enlighten young readers on the
vital things of nature while never giving
those readers even a hint that they are get-
ting anything other than bright entertain-
ment. Her latest is for boys. It takes one
of that fraternity from England to Maori-
land, finds him adventures in that pic-
turesque country, and thus gives to its read-
ers incidental insight into matters that more
and more teachers are agreeing should be
explained to the young. The job could not
,be more delicately done than it is in this
freshly-written book.
In Pirate Waters, by George Garner
(Whitcombe and Tombs), is a rattling story
for boys, packed with picturesque figures and
excitements. Additions to Blackie’s always
reliable list are True Stories of Modern
Adventure, by B. Webster Smith, and Seven
Ages of Invention, by Cyril Hall, both ad-
mirable for boys with a liking for their kind.
Kaiser and Chancellor, by Karl Friedrich
Nowak (Putnam; 21s. net). Vol. I of a
history of the Kaiser, based upon conversa-
tions with the exile of Doom and upon
official and other documents. It is done
with traditionally German thoroughness, and
promises to be" monumental; this volume
takes the story only up to the Kaiser’s break
with Bismarck. Its appearance raised a
storm in Germany, where the writer’s ideal-
istic conception of Wilhelm ran flat against
prevailing press opinion. An important
feature is the crowd of photographs, with
descriptive titles in the Kaiser’s handwriting.
The book gains in interest at least from the
writer’s forlorn attempt to picture the War
Lord as a hero.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice ( except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
R.1.H.: Well, The B. told Australia once
a week for eight years what was ahead, and the
chief of every big Australian bank repeated the
story once every 12 months at least. Only two lots
of people pulled the public’s leg: the politicians
and the public... .G.D.: You’re talking about a
different thing altogether. Our figures showed our
existing war debt (287 millions plus cost of soldier
settlement). Yours show the total cost of war
services (371 millions from revenue, 373 millions
from loans) Bendigo: Sorry, much oversupplied.
... .3 .D.: Thinking over it; what do you suggest?
... .Ratane: No hope of any extensions at the moment.
. ...W.M.F.: There is merit in your octopus figure,
but it doesn’t quite grip. C.D.: Old boy’s tale had
no visible effect on stony heart of cash register....
R.R.R.: The “City of Sin” must be in Australia.
Anyway, there’s no money in it... .M.C.D.: Tiptop
swing, but it’s at muse-worn faces.... H.W.: Close
season for dirges... .E.N.: Not enough to be inspired
“with a sort of primal joy” unless you can let
others gather the information from your lines....
J.8.L.: Idea in it, but the verse is a shroud....
H.8.R.: Something like it has been said once or
twice before... .Darius: Long, for the statement....
iVf.P.W.: Treatment excellent. Would like to hear
from you in a brighter m00d... .Anne M. St.: All far
too long for this market. Publication would be
risky—interest in verse is sadly limited.... L.A..5.:
Slight be a good par. in “The Slump” article....
J. 8., E.A.D. and others: Sorry, no more space for
that subject... .R.S.R.: Couldn’t fit it in, though
regret having to pass it out A.C.W.: Prefer
something current.... Sag: That thunder rumbled
here for weeks three years ago. ...W.D.: Slight be
a market for it elsewhere, but the interest is as
narrow as party politics 11. K.: Good par. at the
most... .V.F.S.: The original paper is the place for
it:.. . SI.E.: Not enough concrete in the building.. ..
J.W.S.: Half a column entitled “The Past and the
Future of Sian.” No....Taipo: Too much contem-
porary stuff worth discussing to excuse the erecting
of more columns over the dead. ... J.S.R.: Nothing
of that kind is worth more than a crisp par
A.D.W.: You keep your eye well off your target....
C. 11.5.: The lady has been dealt with in the only
paper we know of that might have wanted it....
E.W.P.: Just a trifle shrill... .J.A.H.: Falls down
for want of sustaining thought— a. pity, because it
has music in it. .. .E.D.: No room to let you ramble,
especially along such jumpy tracks... .L.A.E.: “The
Loan” doesn’t solve the acceptance problem....
E.P.C.: Try a paper that publishes light verse for
children. .. .R.SIcD.: Legend of the praying mantis
scarcely worth putting into verse, at any rate as
you put it....R.L.E.: A new touch here and there,
but most of it is old. .. .Theistic: Don’t suit, but
there may be a home for them somewhere....
R.W.R.8.: Fulfilment is never up to the promise,
which is bright almost throughout. Next time try
trotting out a horse that you’d put all your coin on.
. ...0.T.R.: You can’t pick up cash as easily as
that. .. .W.E.8.: A lame finish. Try it again....
R.0.C.: Old stuff... .N.M.G.: Flimsy, and the style
is poor. .. .E.R.R.: The dingo’s scalp has been pre-
served .... P.A.D.: Same old J.P., same old drunk.
.... Bellerive: How the favorite was beat: —
THE DEFEAT OF JACK JOHNSON.
Johnson was vanquished,
Fame’s flag was unfurled,
Jess Willard was crowned
Champion of the world.
From reckless living
And in the grip of the law
The wizard of conquests.
Ring battles were o’er.
In trouble and vanquished
But a big devil may care
Humorous and game
He laughed at despair.
(Next: “The Stirring Battle Between Hart and
Tommy Burns.’')
... .C.J.8.W.: The plot isn’t strong enough. . . .L.H.:
Try it on the flapper press... .R.D.: Found a home
for the dog but not the one you intended. ...
D.F.0.C.: Paddy lacks local interest. “The Dream
Girl” wasn’t worth bothering about.... X.R.N.: Not
even middling... .A.H.N.: Atmosphere good; but the
less said of the plot the better... .G.A.8.: Theme
overworked; rabbits were the curse last time....
It.L.H.: Likewise done to death. .. .W.S.F.: Humor
forced, and the subject is an old Christmas standby.
. ...E.C.: It might be true, but that wouldn’t make
it less uninteresting. .. .G.H.L.: Not in its present
form... .K.R.: Cut it down and try a woman’s paper.
... . V.E.J.E.: Don’t want the merely descriptive. .. .
G.G.8.: What grip you had was lost after the first
sentence. ... D. 8.: All a long way oif the mark....
V.W.H.: Louise doesn’t tempt us. .. .E.R.8.H.: Seems
incredible that she had never heard of the mirage.
. ...E.H.: Nothing out of the ordinary... .ALL. I’. :
A poor finish... .0.J.8.: The cash-register salesman
is an old friend in a new suit... .R.W.W.: Quite
right—we dare not publish it. But that’s not be-
cause it is revolutionary. It isn’t revolutionary; it
is what The B. has been saying once a week for
years. .. .C.C.S.: The most'we can do is to print the
most helpful and least familiar.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS. '
J.W.E.: Nothing hilarious about it... . V.S.: Sketch
had a run for its stamp-money, but the gag was a
deadweight.... R. 8.: interred with due solemnity.
. ...0.A.5.: Gets nowhere near publication standard.
.. . .W.T.: Sentenced to the basket. .. .P.M.: Praise-
worthy—if you’re still in the nursery... .S.K.: Hope-
less. .. .J.T.: Get away from that parish pump....
A.W.: So you will take two guineas for it? It’s not
worth tuppence... .0.J.: What have you tried to
depict—an earthquake?... .F.S.: Can’t encourage
you to persevere if you’re 24. .. .W.8.F.: See no
artistic future for you, either... .D.M.: You don’t
seem able to manage the last flight. .. . J.H.: Teacher
needed... .C.J.C.: We’d hate to think how that
would look reproduced... .D.C.: Nita and Peter are
a humorless pair. .. .E.G.: Getting near... .8.H.P.:
All dreary.


.
m
f
h * .
mm. m
JRHj mgm.
\
V
*
V
*
I
' /
■
■
m
iit
Pi
&
i
h / \
m i
■
pm
♦ ■


The Bulletin
Vol. 51.—N0. 2653.
December 17, 1930.
THE KING IS MAD. LONG LIVE THE KING!


NEW YEAR NUMBER
DECEMBER 31
SPECIAL
HOLIDAY
ISSUE,
Concluding Instalment of Henry
Lawson’s Autobiography will be
published.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE : 27.) George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: IL’i-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westrai.ia : S 3 Barr act: Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand,, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia
weekly: 12 months, £1 l/s.; 6 months, 12s. 6a.;
5 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.,
6 months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d. Elsewhere: sd.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 9
POLITICAL POINTS (drawings by Frith) . . 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) . . . . 11, 12
PERSONAL (with caricatures) . . . . .. 13
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 14, 16
ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER? ~ ..17
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 17
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..18
FLAPPER AT AN ART SHOW—►
(■Drawings by herself) . . .. .. 18
POVERTY POINT 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 20, 21
SMOKE-OH (w-ith drawings) .. .. .. 22
MAN ON THE LAND 24, 26
SHADOW SHOWS 27
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT . . . . 28
SPORTING (illustrated) 31, 33
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER (Frith illustrations) 34
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP . . . . 34, 36
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 36
AS WE SAID BEFORE 38
Serial, “Break o’ Day”—
By John Crisp .. .. ..40, 41, 42
COMPLETE STORY, “PLOTS AND OLD LACE”—
By Randolph Bedford . . . . 29, 42
VERSE —By “Emel,” Eric Lowe, Roderic Quinn.. 42
Special New Year Number, December 31.
WHAT CAN WE DO TO BE
SAVED?
It looks as though Credit is to be the great
question of the next few years. A very
energetic section says the many have too
little because the few have too much, and
that the chief reason why is that the few
collect interest and the many pay it. They
are able to produce some very remarkable
figures. If a man had to pay only what a
house cost in labor and materials, rent
would not be one-quarter of what it is.
Assuming that the cost of a cottage in labor
and materials is £BOO, and that it will last
50 years, then'the rent, apart from upkeep,
would be £l6 a year —less than 6s. 3d. a
week. The other 30s. or 355. per week is
interest. The question is, can interest be
done without? Is that mortgage which is
crushing the life out of a farmer unavoid-
able? Here is a group which would have
put up plant long ago to provide Australia
with printing paper if it had not found tre-
mendous difficulties in the way of raising
money. Must it depend upon the money-
lender (call him what you like) for the
funds to build the works?
In those economic circles in England
where the burden of interest is discussed
the market in Guernsey is produced trium-
phantly. The island wanted a market, and
issued non-interest-bearing bonds to build
it. As charges were made and funds
accumulated, these bonds were paid off, and
within a few years the market was free and
the people’s own. But, since a. plan of that
sort would only succeed where there was
some cause impelling the contributors to
forego interest, the thing has to be carried
farther to be much good. Why not, it is
asked, issue interest-free notes to pay for
wages and material? There would be good,
substantial assets; why not issue notes
against good, substantial, useful assets as
well as against useless lumps of a yellow
metal? This, of course, always does seem
ridiculous. But it is not quite like that.
The gold standard is one thing, the note issue
another. There could be a gold standard
without a note issue, and there could be a
note issue independent of gold. Thus
in some cities there are bottle exchanges,
and receipts for a dozen bottles are currency
in some quarters. But it is inconvenient:
though one might know how many pence a
cabbage is worth, one might be forgiven for
not knowing how many cabbages a dozen
bottles should buy. Because gold happens
to have been agreed upon as the inter-
national term in which value is expressed,
nominal note-values are based upon gold
—with us the £ sterling. A note might
have been called a 10-boffle or a 5-smidkin
note; but that would not indicate its
value unless the values of the smidkin and
the boffle were fixed; and to fix values
we must have something to fix them by.
But while gold has been internationally
chosen for that purpose, and our note de-
nominations are based on the £ sterling, it
does not follow that note issues are based
on gold. It is true that under our Aus-
tralian law the Commonwealth Bank must
hold at least one-quarter of the face value
of the note issue in gold. But that is an
arbitrary law; a mere guess at something.
The proportion is not nearly reached to-
day; yet it is quite plain that the issue is
too great, because the pound note is not
now worth what it purports to be worth.
You could not pay a debt for much more
than 18s. with our £1 note in England or
any other part of the world. Our notes,
in other words, though expressed in terms
of gold currency, are no longer based on
gold. They are not even issued against
gold; gold ordinarily only comes into the
matter at all in the shape of a rough and
ready check on over-issue. The reason
why for the time being our pound note is
not worth £1 sterling is that we cannot
buy with it in Australia what we can sell
elsewhere for £1 sterling. We have, in other
words, got “off” the gold standard. The
result is exactly the same as when a milk-
man adds water. He increases the bulk, but
not the value.
At this stage we can get back to the
market in Guernsey or thereabouts, and to
the argument that if notes can be issued
against a useless lump of yellow metal, they
surely can be issued against a useful house
or railway or paper-making plant. We have
seen that notes are issued not against gold,
but in terms of gold. They are issued in
terms of gold, because gold is the only
thing with an internationally agreed upon
value. Its comparative uselessness other-
wise has little or no bearing on the matter;
if it w 7 ere even more useless that would be
an advantage, because then it would not be
hoarded by people who think it beautiful.
Its virtues as a standard are that it is
not over-abundant in the world, has never
been and probably can never be produced
in overwhelming quantities, is practically
indestructible, and is very easily and cheaply
transported. To maintain the value of the
note it must be able to buy at home goods
that can be sold abroad for a note of the
same or a corresponding denomination. In
the hands of the public notes do not bear
interest. Therefore the public does not keep
in hand more than are necessary for current
use. If we could earn money with the notes
put into something else, but could earn
nothing with the notes themselves, it would
pay to get rid of the notes at a discount.
The greater the supply of notes in excess
of current till and pocket needs, the greater
the discount. A note that was issued in
payment of 20s. to-day might thus easily
be worth only 18s. a few months after-
wards. And because the 20s. note had then
shrunk in value, one would need to be paid
more notes for any subsequent service. Thus
the issue of notes would grow; and every
increased issue would demand a still greater
issue. Inflation breeds inflation.
Maybe the single gold standard is wrong:
to The Bulletin it appears so. But notes
that are “off” any accepted standard are
worse. The one is bad because it is liable
to increase so much in value that produc-
tion and trade are demoralised; the other
is certain to produce greater demoralisation
because it will decrease in value to a far
greater extent. We must seek other ways
out of our troubles. They might be attacked
from three points:—
(1) International control of the gold standard.
The hoarding of gold by two or three nations is
more disastrous than a world war. Control seems a
more practicable plan than an alternative change
of the gold standard.
And for our own use specially:—
(2) Control of land values. It is the inflation
of land values which makes both interest and rent
burden so intolerable ; and in N. S. Wales the Valuer-
General’s Department has been greatly responsible
for it.
(3) Elimination of economic waste. This is a
tremendous subject; it includes a reduction in the
horde of parasites, human and other. The human
include superfluous agents, shopkeepers, politicians,
public servants and union oflicials; the “other”
include superfluous railways, pony meetings, bowsers
and miniature golf links.
After we have attended to those three mat-
ters we shall probably find that there is no
need for any fantastic currency experiments
which have been not only colossal failures
but colossal frauds wherever they have been
tried. Merely to camouflage them as
“interest-free loans” will not alter their
nature.
LATEST MOVES IN CHINA.
A couple of years ago a Minister of the
Chinese National Government announced
that the republic was going to give itself
an army and navy commensurate with its
size, population and needs. Now the Brit-
ish Admiralty has sent a Naval Mission to
Nanking, with Captain Baillie-Grohman at
its head, to get the navy afloat. At present
it is mostly lying in the Whangpu River
encrusted with barnacles, while its admirals
loaf around foreign hotels waiting to see
which way the political Chinese cat will
jump.
This navy’s most important unit is the
Hai Chi, a cruiser of 4800 tons; the rest
are either obsolete or decayed. Nevertheless,
since history has a habit of repeating itself,
it would be a mistake to treat it as a joke.
When the Japanese started to lay the foun-
dations of one of the largest and most effici-
ent navies in the world, the prospects for
success seemed even worse. Owing to an
Imperial decree, there had been no sea-
going Japanese craft built for a century.
It was a capital offence to leave the country
except for a short fishing trip. On the other
hand, the Chinese coastwise population have
always been seafaring* folk. Their trading
junks, bigger than the ships that served
under Drake, made regular trips as far as
the Persian Gulf. Under the Mongol Khans
China became the paramount naval power
in the Pacific, and armadas were sent to
Japan, Korea, the Philippines and Borneo.
To-day the Chinese fishermen are amongst
the most daring in the world. From Hong-
kong to Shanghai they cover the sea so
densely with their gigantic nets that even
the most humane commander of a European
liner has no option but to plough his way
through them; and hundreds of their vessels
are lost annually in the typhoons.
However, it takes a high degree of indus-
trial development to maintain a great
modern fleet, and that development is some-
thing China has not yet got. So there is
more significance in the fact that the fiercely
nationalistic Kuomintang has of late be-
come deeply interested in the air. At the
present moment there are something like
200 aeroplanes in China. Three factories
have been erected; Canton and Shanghai
build military and commercial ’planes, while
Foochow specialises in the amphibian. Like
everything else he makes, the Chinaman’s
flying machines are extraordinarily cheap.
A recently-built machine cost £640, half
of it for the imported engine. It has
accommodation for a pilot and a passenger,
can carry 1000 pounds of mail or high ex-
plosive, can travel at 70 m.p.h. and reach
an altitude of 15,000 feet.
Aeroplanes are being used more and more
in the perennial civil war, and round-the-
country flights excite almost as much
interest as an England-Australia flight.
There is a slant-eyed Amy Johnson who is
the darling of the pictorial press, and the
local Kingsford Smith is Chen Wen-lin,
who flew from London to Amoy. A net-
work of commercial services is being
planned, aerodromes are being built and
patriotic student-bodies are trying to make
the nation “air-minded.” Naturally, foreign
Governments and private companies are
not behindhand in furthering the good work.
A Chino-German aviation corporation with
a capital of 3,000.000 dollars has been
formed, the Chinese Government holding
two-thii’ds of the shares. The American
Curtiss group is co-operating with the
National Aviation Corporation to run com-
mercial services between Nanking and
Shanghai, Canton and Peking; and, when
Russian objections have been overcome,
there are to be three services along different
routes from Shanghai to Berlin.
A feature of these schemes is that Brit-
ain has been left out of all of them, and
that the Chinese Government retains finan-
cial and administrative control. If Russia,
a country as poor as China and nearly as
backward industrially, can equip herself
with the largest military air force in the
world, there is no obvious reason why China
should not be able to follow suit.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Help the Farmer and Save Yourselves!
The stolid hostility of the Federal Govern-
ment towards the only feasible scheme that
has been advanced for meeting the position
that has developed in the wheat-producing
industry of the Commonwealth is based on
nothing more tangible than votes. Osten-
sibly the Perkins plan is being opposed
because it will increase the price of bread
to the consumer—purely for the farmer’s
benefit.
The idea that this wheat problem is en-
tirely the farmer’s pigeon is utterly wrong.
We are all in this. If a crash is to come,
the farmer will suffer least of all. Big
business is going to get the jolt of its life,
and suburbia will be prostrated. The dis-
aster will most certainly fall most heavily
on the city crowd which demurs at a small
increase in the price of bread—which de-
clines to share to that extent in the common
sacrifice a common crisis demands. When
doom descends the farmer at least can, so
to speak, retire within himself. He can lock
his front gate, turn his back upon the world,
and. proceed to sustain himself upon what
he can produce. The moujik did it when the
Soviet attempted to bludgeon him into
profitless production; and the rule of Lenin
and Trotsky reeled back from the only
effective blow that has yet been struck
at Bolshevik administration. The farmer,
at any rate, has the wherewithal of exist-
ence right at hand, and the capacity to im-
plement it. He can continue to produce
what he wants—for himself. The city
dweller, for many and obvious reasons,
can’t. Upon that spearpoint the city con-
sumer is, unconsciously perhaps, going to
impale himself. And a fatuous and supine
Federal Government, instructed and dra-
gooned and driven by a blind Caucus, is
aiding and abetting the absurd idea.
Well, Let’s Know Where We Are!
Thus far, except to a limited extent in
South Australia, such efforts as have been
made to mobilise the financial and economic
resources of the Commonwealth have been
a failure. At Canberra last week the Labor
Caucus spurned Opposition-Leader Latham’s
overtures; and a truce offered by Bavin in
Sydney was as flatly rejected.
But if these Governments, and especially
the Commonwealth Government, will not
consent to intrusion on what they insist is
their domain—if they demand a monopoly-
practice of national salvation—at least there
can be no valid objection to a small body of
non-party experts being appointed to say
exactly w’hat our position is. Four-fifths of
the people still do not know, and most of
the other fifth are not sure. The majority,
not knowing where we stand, of necessity
cannot know what our dangers are. They
seem to think in a vague sort of way that a
Government’s resources are inexhaustible.
They do not know that at this moment the
payment of public servants’ wages and salar-
ies in N. S. Wales is in grave danger because
the Treasury is quite empty, and bills are
piling up in every department. They do
not know that the banks made advances
until they believed it was dangerous to
further reduce their resources. They do not
know that the heads of Australia’s banks
have been in frequent conference planning
how to save the conversion loan from
being an ignominous and disastrous failure,
while still carrying on the private finance of
the country. And they do not know what
dark clouds hang over us in London.
If these Governments feel so sure of
themselves that they do not want outside
assistance, very well. But the people are
at least entitled to know, and Governments
should know, what the real position is. The
people are entitled also to know what pro-
gress has been made during the past 12
months. At present Mr. Lang, for example,
possibly cannot disclose a policy because
that might amount to an acceptance of facts
whose existence he has denied. In the pre-
sence of such a report we could forget all
the denials and simply set ourselves to the
task of procuring a recovery—leaving the
remedies entirely to the Government in
office, if it so insists.
There is no need for any legislation to
establish such a body. At a single half-hour
sitting the Commonwealth Government
could appoint a commission and give it the
necessary instructions, allowing it a fort-
night only to report, and limiting its re-
port to 3000 words. Because the commis-
sion should be entirely devoted to analysis
and not to remedies it should be wholly
statistical, consisting, say, of Wickens, the
Commonwealth Statist; Cerutty, the Com-
monwealth Auditor; Spence, Auditor-Gen-
eral of N. S. Wales, and his brethren of, say,
Victoria and Queensland and the statistician
of the Commonwealth Bank.
♦
Should Mortgages Be Written Down?
Speaking from the bench of the Federal
Arbitration Court in Melbourne, Chief
Judge Dethridge confessed that the problem
of mortgages and interest was troubling
him. “It seemed to him that mortgagees
and others, owing to falling values, would
have to be satisfied with a 50 per cent,
decrease in their investments.” In other
words, that a man who owes £lOOO on mort-
gage should be entitled to hand the mort-
gagee £5OO and require a full discharge.
What are the facts of this matter?
Investments are of many grades. Some
people are willing to take a big risk with
their capital. They are then entitled to a
big interest return. All capital is in fact
entitled to the same return; but the added
provision for contingencies must be in-
creased or decreased according to the risk
accepted. So one man charges 20 per cent,
p.a., not because his money is worth more
than that of another man who gets only
5 per cent., but because he believes or
pretends to believe that a fund of 15 pei
cent, or thereabouts per annum is required
to provide for his bad debts or losses.
Now t , the man who has been paying 5 per
cent, for money will only get it for 5 per
cent, so long as he can show that there is
practically no risk in lending to him. As
soon as he shows that there are risks, up
go the rates. So we shall have to be care-
ful; for if first-class mortgages, etc., are
shown to be dangerous things to handle
liable to a writing down of 50 per cent,
then there will be no cheap money for even
first-class mortgages and the like in future.
A further question is whether a reduction
or writing-down is honest. “We ought to
be sheltered,” these investors may plead m
effect. “We deserve shelter. It is true that
we are getting our 5 or 6 per cent, interest
unimpaired while other sorts of investment
are getting nothing at all; but remembei
that we got only 5 or 6 per cent, when others
were getting 10 per cent.” And that is quite
true also. But there is another point to
consider: were they wise to-accept 5 or b
per cent.? Did they not overlook dangers
which in fact existed, and is it not their
fault that they did not demand a higher
rate of interest in order to provide for thpse
risks? This is almost exactly what the
French say in reply to the complaint _ that
they paid off the Allies with depreciated
paper, involving a loss of about three-
fourths of the money. “That’s quite true,
the French say. “You speculated m francs.
Had they recovered to par you would have
made about 35 or 40 per cent.; they fell, and
you lost about 65 per cent. There was a
risk which you should have provided io .


TAKE YOUR COATS OFF!
YOUNG AUSTRALIA: “Well, what are all you chaps doing?”
CHIEF JUDGE DETHRIDGE: “We’ve got to hold an inquiry and find out whether you’re in trouble, and, if so, why.”
YOUNG AUSTRALIA: “Cripes! Why don’t you take off your coats and give us a lift on the wheels?”
There was a risk which it may be that
Australian mortgagees and investors in Aus-
tralian public stocks ought to have provided
for also. It is a point which we have
already said we may yet have to put before
our creditors. Further, we borrowed when
the £ was worth much less than it is to-
day: some of it we borrowed when one
bushel of wheat would pay 'interest or repay
principal that three bushels will not pay
to-day.
There is a case, then, for readjustment.
But if we apply for readjustment we shall
have to remember that it will stop us from
getting cheap money for similar invest-
ments in future—until, at any rate, all the
circumstances of the case are forgotten.
♦
Duntroon Passes.
Australia’s Military College at Duntroon,
after 19 years of an existence justified a
hundredfold by results, was formally closed
last week on the ground of economy. The
plea will only provoke derision and con-
tempt until the Government treads the
same path of thrift in the direction of
solidly reducing other Federal expenditure.
The.records of those trained at Duntroon
speak for themselves. In the Great War
these young experts, almost to a man,
won high distinction. Of those who saw
active service—l2B in a 11—27 per cent, were
killed in action. Elsewhere, as liaison or
special service officers in Britain and India,
many others have earned high praise. In
Australia, these intensively trained and
specialised lads have been for years the
nexus of the efficient instructional staff of
the Commonwealth Military Forces now
dilapidated by party politics.
Though not daring to entirely abolish the
system Duntroon stands for, the present
Federal Government could not have taken
a step better calculated to impair the effici-
ency of the intensive training which has
been the keynote of Duntroon than the
transference of the college to Paddington
Barracks, in the heart of Sydney, the
largest and worst disciplined metropolis
south of the Line. No other military
training college of importance is situated in
such surroundings. Sandhurst in England,
West Point in America, St. Cyr in France
—all are carefully isolated centres.
The discipline and high morale which has
always marked the products of Duntroon
may be expected to repeat itself at Pad-
dington. But the maintenance of the old
Duntroon standard in the face of the dismal
surroundings will require enhanced vigilance
on the part of the instructional staff, and
a keener determination than ever on the
part of the cadets to play the game, faced
as they will be with greatly limited oppor-
tunities for recreations other than the often
dubious varieties which a large and con-
gested city offers.
It may be taken for granted that the
"great mass of the Australian public for
which Duntroon has done such good service
will not forget. With the turn of the poli-
tical wheel, which is already gaining impetus,
the need for an efficient scheme of defence
must reassert itself, and the Duntroon spirit
will flame all the brighter for the attempts
to suppress it.
Lang’s Not Quite So Popular Now.
There has been an unexplained delay in the
delivery of the goods promised by N.S.W.
Labor during its hectic October campaign,
and the beneficiaries-to-be are getting
restive.
It may be unreasonable to expect even a
Lang Government to work wonders in six
weeks, but the unemployed, who were all to
be furnished with jobs at award wages, and
the farmers, who were bidden to remember
that a Labor Government paid them 7s. 6d.
a bushel for their wheat (“and what we did
then we can do now”), refuse to regard
patience as a virtue. Civil servants, more-
over, are angrily pointing out that immedi-
ate repeal of the Act reducing their salaries
8k per cent, was, as they understood, to
be their reward for voting Labor, and that
it hasn’t been attempted. Nor have these
malcontents been mollified by the vague
assurance that the miracles will start when
the Leg. Council is no more. The anti-
abolitionists in the threatened Chamber let
two Constitution Amendment Bills go
through, but they have asked the Full Court
to declare that no abolition bill may be
presented to the Governor for his assent
until it has been approved by a referendum
of the people; and the proceedings threaten
to be protracted.
But the feelings of these dissatisfied sec-
tions are mild compared with those of “the
sports,” four-fifths of whom are Labor
supporters. Without any forewarning in
election speeches “the sports” are to be
smitten with a tax on winning bets, to
take effect from Saturday next at Randwick.
Mr. Lang, who is no punter, calls it “a tax
of 10 per cent, on winning bets”; but as the
thing is to be levied on “the amount staked,
pledged or wagered by the backer, as
well as the amount payable by the book-
maker,” it will work out at a great deal
more than 10 per cent, in the case of hot
favorites. A heedless punter might even
lose by backing a winner; for example, £5
on Phar Lap at 10 to 1 on would show a
loss of a shilling, the tax being 11s. The
loudest outcry against this impost is coming
from the northern coalfields, the inhabitants
of which are the most inveterate punters
in the State. They would stake bread
coupons or lumps of coal if they were with-
out money; throughout the late strike,
which lasted 15 months, there was racing on
the courses with which the coalfields abound.
Now these “dead-game sports” will have
to give their Labor Government two shil-
lings in the pound of their wagers and
winnings, when they have a win, and a
shilling in the pound of their wages as un-
employment tax—which was likewise sprung
on them without warning. The things they
say about Labor Ministers, especially Mr.
Baddeley, of Bellevue Hill, won’t stand
repeating.
4
The Lord and the League.
Lord Somers, Acting Governor-General of
Australia, could not have been speaking on
behalf of his Sovereign when he delivered
his elegy on the removal of Duntroon
Military College to Sydney. Among other
things he is reported to have suggested that
the League of Nations is a dud and that
a nice big war might break out any morn-
ing. It might; and yet the league deserves
a friendlier word than that.
In a tenacious, plodding sort of way it
goes on month after month building up
friendship and understanding among the
nations. Even Uncle Sam has been roped
in. The latest “monthly summary” of the
league’s doings to hand records the election
of Frank B. Kellogg in succession to Charles
Evan Hughes as a member of the Per-
manent Court of International Justice.
Other events of the month were the signing
of a Treaty of Friendship between Sweden
and Persia and the settlement of an argu-
ment between Germany and Czechoslo-
vakia about the use of the port of Ham-
burg. Little things, of course; but they help.
To many intelligent people of this genera-
tion war is no doubt inevitable, but there
was a time when small-pox and other
terrible plagues were inevitable, too. By
sanitation and vaccination,' however, those
scourges have been robbed of their sting.
The League of Nations is a laboratory in
which vaccines and prophylactics are being
prepared against war. To suggest that they
are bound to prove useless is to discourage
the prospective patients and weaken their
moral resistance.
4
Interest Must Come Down.
Dead Bulletin, — I quite agree with you
that we cannot get out of our troubles by
printing a bit of paper and calling it a
“quid.” But we will have to tackle the
matter of the rate of interest. If the banks,
by pooling, could reduce the interest rate
by about 50 pef cent, to their debtors, and
the same amount to their clients on fixed
deposit, outside rates of interest would soon
shrink; the reason why outside rates are
now kept up is that banks are prepared to
pay 5 per cent, and more for cash, and
then charge 7 per cent, and more for credit.
Something will have to be done, and the
sooner the better. The fall in the price
of primary products has automatically
doubled my liabilities, as it now takes two
bushels of wheat-to pay a debt that could
be squared with one bushel 12 months ago.
Can we not get together to thresh the
matter out?—Yours, Iconoclast.
4
Watch Your Parks—But Use Them.
Dear Bulletin, —“Geebung” complains
(B. 3/12/’3O) that many “week-enders”
regularly occupy water frontages of National
Park (N.S.W.), with the result that trees
and shrubs are destroyed, and natural
beauty is transformed into ugly desolation.
This is most unfortunate—but it would not
happen under reasonable supervision. “Gee-
bung” also objects to Centennial Park being
converted into a sports ground, “with in-
numerable cricket pitches and football
squares.” To what uses would “Geebung”
devote the parks and reserves if not to the
pleasant recreation of the people? That
such places are subject to acts of vandalism
cannot be denied. Would he deprive the
great mass of the public of their pleasure
because of this?
The beautiful parks surrounding the city
of Adelaide comprise 1900 acres. In all 510
permits are issued to various sports bodies,
including cricket, football, tennis, bowls,
lacrosse, baseball and hockey clubs, to use
these lands. On Saturday afternoons the sight
is inspiring—thousands of people, young
and old, engaged in health-giving games;
not lazily watching the exertions of trained
athletes!
The wise men who planned our cities
“builded better than they knew.” For on
the playing-fields, no less than the work-
shop and University, must we depend for
the development of those qualities which
mean so much in the establishment of true
nationhood.—Yours etc., J. R. Cain, Chair-
man Market and Parks Committee, Adel-
aide City Council.
4
Service.
The Bulletin’s Service Department has
been a remarkable success. During the past
year it has welcomed over 8000 questions,
and again it gratefully acknowledges the
assistance of technical heads of Government
departments, University professors and lec-
turers and many other specialists in answer-
ing them.
But the Service Department has been
more than an inquiry bureau. It has
brought The Bulletin into very close touch
with readers—has brought it face to face
with their difficulties and their problems,
and their needs. Thus more and more the
obligation of service has been realised.
And there is still much to be done. Lately
it has been considering whether the Red
Page has been doing all it might. Has it
been the guide to its readers that it should
be? Has it “put them on” to books worth
reading? The Bulletin believes, at any
rate, that it can do much more in that way;
and beginning on January 7 it will make a
weekly feature of “The Red Page: His
Books”—an intimate talk with readers who
want guidance in their purchases and lib-
rary selections. And to those who cannot
find much time for reading, it will give at
least a general idea of what talked-of and
worth-while books are about.
4
Unlimited Credit.
Dear Bulletin, —I hate capital, because
I haven’t got any of it; but I can see
that credit is a good thing, especially when
you’ve got no hope on earth of paying
the creditor back. By this evening’s mail
I have therefore posted a suggestion to Mr.
Anstey in Canberra. It is that the banks
should release unlimited credit to all. These
(i.e., all) would, in turn, release unlimited
credit mutually (also to all). In this way
capital would die a natural death, because
it would be rendered unnecessary.
We coyld then, of course, keep up our
standard of living—on credit. The people
who had would supply the people who
hadn’t—until we were all hadn’ts. This
would obviate the necessity of inflating
the currency. That is a bad thing, because
the wageplugs engaged in the business of
printing money might object to working for
credit.
The scheme has some defects, of course;
thus (principally) it mightn’t work. But
still it would democratise us. We’d all be
equal. Because we’d all have nothing.—
Yours etc.,, Gerald Dillon.


A DOUBLE HAT-TRICK'
Both'in 1929 and 1930 the three greatest International
Road Races for standard cars were won on Shell Oil
and Spirit. By these decisive victories in some of the
most gruelling road tests ever Shell gains
the double "hat trick” laurels.
Le Mans Grand Prix 1929 and 1930
Junior Car Clubs “Double 12 hr5."1929 and 1930
Irish Grand Prix 1929 and 1930
were all won by cars fuelled and lubricated by Shell.
51
r'R*
v -
5.1106
OIL AND SPIRI
POLITICAL
POINTS
Federal Labor’s gold bonus is to be £1
per fine ounce for 10 years from Jan. 1,
1931, on production in excess of the average
for the three years 1928, ’29 and ’3O, first
payment in 1932. Minister Forde was so
glitteringly prophetic in introducing the bill
that Latham drily told him he ought to be
writing mining prospectuses ; and until wage-
payers know where they stand as regards
taxation, currency-inflation, wages and in-
dustrial tribunals, large-scale overseas invest-
ment in mining or any other branch of Aus-
tralian industry is most unlikely. However,
the bonus should stimulate the formation of
local prospecting syndicates and the working
of abandoned mines, and so employment and
production of the one exportable commodity
which is independent of the caprices of
markets. And, rightly handled through the
years, it should admit of a steady transfer of
our securities from London and New York
to Australia, with reduction of interest as
one good result.
Scullin, having seen Paris and inspected
Marie Antoinette’s bed at Versailles, has
pulled up in Italy before stepping aboard at
Naples, the last port of call in Europe. He
saw Mussolini, and there was “a friendly
exchange of views.” “Ah, my deara Scul-
“Too much time-a da flea tell-a dog
watta to do.”
lino,” the Duce said, “you liava da troub?
Witta da Lefta da Weeng—eli? Sacra-
mento!—watta da for? Cutta da Weeng!
Too much time-a da flea tella da dog watta
to do. It is time-a da dog tella da flea watta
to do. See!”
When last heard from Parker Moloney
was in America, burbling the usual nonsense.
“Those who talk about repudiation,” he
said, “don’t know Australia. Repudiation
does not enter into her make-up.” Well, if
repudiation doesn’t, bankruptcy does. There
is not a day in Sydney without its list of
meetings of creditors. These insolvents didn't
repudiate, and don’t want to do anybody out
of a penny. But they go broke all the same.
And so can Australia. And so will Aus-
tralia, unless Moloney’s colleagues have far
more wisdom and honesty and pluck than
they have shown so far.
The Vic. Hogan Government struck serious
trouble on its Unemployed Relief Bill. It
survived an Opposition amendment to reduce
the taxes on people who have already been
ruthlessly smitten by Federal Labor, but
another empowering the independent advisory
board to prescribe the pay for relief work
found it in a minority of one. Hogan’s
contention, like Lang’s in N. S. Wales, is
that Government relief workers should get
full union rates, while farmers from whom
the relief tax is extorted have to take half-
wages for their wheat. The Government was
in a precarious position when Parliament
adjourned at the week-end.
Queensland has been famous for the
sheeted ghosts which rose from the tomb to
vote the right ticket at State elections;
the Moore Government is making an effort
to lay them, once and for all. The residen-
tial qualification is to be six months in
Queensland and three months in the electo-
rate —in the carefree days it was three
months in the State and one month in the
electorate, and hordes of voters alleged to
be needed for urgent loan works could
qualify for doubtful districts in a month.
And electors who do not satisfactorily
explain why they did not vote at State elec-
tions are to have their names struck off. This
ought to be done throughout Australia, and
at least £1 should be charged for re-enrol-
ment.
Hertzog has staggered the Doppers by tell-
ing them to forget all about their dream of
secession from the Empire and saying he
means to work for the fusion of Boer and
TJitlander into the Afrikander. A splendid
ideal, but the change of front is bound to
be suspected. No one has better grasped the
tiuth of the aphorism that speech is given to
man to conceal his thoughts than the Boer;
and Hertzog is Boer to his boots. 1
Politicians don’t always play the
game with one another. Here is
Hang surrounded by a mob clamor-
ing to him to fulfil his election pro-
mises and hardly a bean in the
Treasury to do it with ; there is so
little there that tradespeople are
finding it hard to collect money-
even for tucker supplied to unem-
ployed on Government orders. In
the circumstances the Leg. Council
was fully expected to put up a
willing scrap over the Govern-
ment’s proposals for the second
Chamber’s abolition; and it de-
clined even to put on the gloves in
the regular way. Lang is looking
round for some other diversion. It
will be a row with his Ex. Game
if his Ex. isn’t very careful.
Five Russian professors have
been sentenced to death at Moscow
for workirtg against the Soviets—
or so it is alleged. Communist
plotters against the Australian
Commonwealth are treated differ-
ently in this capitalistic country.
They are allowed the use of the
public p.arks to hurl abuse at our
institutions —often in filthy lan-
guage—and beat up recruits for
“the Revolution,” and even when they
stir up mobs to attack the police the
punishment is generally the same as
in drunk and disorderly cases—£2 or 14
days. Should bonds or barristers be required
there is a so-called Class-War Prisoners’ Aid
Society, seemingly stiff with Labor politi-
cians, to provide them. These enemies of
Australia oughf to be given a taste of the
medicine their bosses administer to their
enemies, real or alleged, in the Red Republic.
Bill Adams Green, has been invited to
attend the official opening of the new Delhi
as capital of India, and he would like to go,
but Caucus objects. Caucus put him up to
emasculate the Defence forces, and the job
is only half-done. Still, Australia ought to
be represented at Delhi as a matter of cour-
tesy, and in a way it would be better to send
Green than Monash. The experience would
help the Ministerial head of what remains of
the Army and Navy to realise some of the
dangers that always wait on the unprepared.
Latham laid The Bulletin’s arguments
in favor of a National Council of Safety
before the House of Reps., and proposed a
three-year truce as part of a plan for roping
in men of all the talents to deal with Aus-
tralia’s difficulties. The Labor Caucus dealt
with the subject the same night. Acting-
Treasurer Lyons, who knows better than any
other man in the party what thin ice we are
on, urged acceptance. But the Left Wing
would not think of it. A mixed crowd, it
ANSTEY: “Lay ’em, you silly jowl, lay ’em!”
said, would w T ant to follow orthodox lines;
and the Left Wing believes salvation can
be reached unorthodoxly through the Corn-
monwealth Bank creating and releasing
credits. Frank Anstey, the leader of this
section, still thinks that_ if Robert Gibson,
chairman of the bank, is threatened suffi-
ciently he will lay eggs which, if not exactly
gold, will pass for gold in a crisis,
The Perkins plan of a sales tax on flour
wa s designed to give the farmers another
7d. or Bd. a bushel for the wheat which the
Government implored them to grow, and the
price of which is now about half of what
it promised them. Rejecting Perkins’s
scheme for the sake of votes, Caucus has
produced a bill guaranteeing 3s. a bushel
f.o.b. —virtually another sixpence. It pro-
fesses to hope that the Commonwealth Bank
Board will agree to a corresponding note
inflation; failing that, the farmers them-
selves will have to contribute substantially
to the loss guaranteed (estimated at
£4,125,000) by means of Federal tax on their
1929-30 income, from which city unionists
ANXIOUS HEAVYWEIHT : “Play the game, Sir
John, and put ’em on. I’ve counted on this
lasting three rounds, and I’ve got nothing else
to amuse the boys with.”
getting up to £5 15s. a week are still exempt.
By “intervening” in arbitration cases and
threatening to sack Judges, Labor-socialism
is trying to maintain 1929 wage-rates, even
on relief works financed by special taxes on
the farmers, among others; at the same time
it insists on city workers getting bread at
rates based on wheat at 2s. sd. or 2s. 6d.
at siding, even if the farmers (to whom it
made such lavish promises when it was
after their votes) are ruined thereby. A
wickeder political swindle was never pro-
posed.
Parties to mortgages, bills of sale and
hire-purchase agreements are to be allowed
to contract out of N. S. Wales Labor’s mora-
torium. The Government might well con-
sider whether it shouldn’t also let people
contract, in part, out of its unemployment-
tax measure, especially those who will have
to pay the tax in a lump sum. If it took
half of what it proposes to collect and let
taxpayers apply the other half to the employ-
ment of male or female labor —over and
above what they employed on, say, Septem-
ber 1, if any—there would be an appreciable
diminution in the harrowing number of
unemployed, together with a saving in
temper (on the taxpayers’ part), cost of
administration and muscular and nervous
energy. The finders of jobs would take care
that they would be such as the applicants
were trained to do—a most important
matter. You don’t get ten shillings’ worth
of real toil by giving a clerk, musician or
shop hand the basic wage for a week’s sand-
shifting on a Government relief work, nor
does he go home satisfied at the end of the
week. On the contrary, his mind, as well as
his body, rebels.
Lang doesn’t go to the races—of course
he is none the worse, for that —and he must
have some very stupid advisers among those
of his party wdio do. Otherwise he wouldn’t
have told the House that he expected “about
£2,000,000 a year” from his tax on winning
wagers. He wouldn’t have got that in the
boom days of racing, and with the volume
of racecourse betting greatly reduced —and
certain to be reduced still further by the
provision for taking one-tenth of the amount
staked, which will make it absurd to back
hot favorites —he will be lucky if he rakes
in a fourth of his £2,000,000. No doubt a
section of punters will turn from McShort-
odds to the tote, which yielded the Govern-
ment £193,172 last year, but the “60-20-20”
machine appeals so little and the deductions
are so great (nearly 14 p.c.) that the in-
crease from this source will be slight, if any.
The N.S.W. Premier’s best chance of get-
ting a really substantial revenue from racing
would be to restrict racecourse betting to
the tote and insist on the installation of
“straiglitout,” “place” and “doubles”
machines. But that would necessitate a
ruthless war on McShortodds, and (as Com-
rade Hill, of S. Aus., could testify) he can be
a very artful dodger.
• Without giving reasons, “Good Old
Piddo’s” Industrial Commissipn has sum-
marily refused an application for a reduc-
tion in the N.S.W. living wage, though there
has notoriously been a substantial fall in
rents and (in spite of the so-called emer-
gency taxes) in prices of necessary commo-
dities. Minister Badly now says that “full
award wages” and the 44-liour week are to
rule on his Government’s relief works, which
are to be financed by a special tax of a
shilling in the pound. This will mean a sub-
stantial rise in real wages for unskilled and
(in many, cases) inexperienced labor, and
farmers who had taxable income in 1929-30
will have to contribute to it. Yet Badly and
his tribe expect the farmers to put up with
a 50 or 60 per cent, reduction in their wages
—in other words, less than the pre-war price
for wheat. It is a rooted belief with city
Labor politicians and union secretaries that
the farmer is a mug, but they have never
been so cynically candid about it.
Something is being done for the Queens-
land wheatgrower, at least. An advance of
2s. Id. a bushel net to growers of “Q.l”
wheat has been made available by the Com-
monwealth Bank, and it is expected that
£300,000 will be distributed Jan. 1. The
State Government is also advancing 7d. a
bushel. The crop is expected to reach four
million bushels. Of course, this is smah
compared with the Westralian estimate of
50 million bushels —though Westralian
returns will unfortunately be affected by
destructive hailstorms in the eastern areas.
History is repeating itself. Long ago
that great old parson-politician Dr. Lang
was travelling in the country and was
warned, as he set out one evening on horse-
back, of a swollen creek. Coming up to it,
according to the story, he dismounted, took
off most of his clothes, piled them on his
saddle-tree and walked boldly in, dragging
the horse after him. On he strode, wonder-
ing when the icy water would submerge him
—and came out on the other side, with the
water never past his ankles. Then he
dressed sadly and resumed his journey. J. T.
Lang was like that with the Leg. Council.
He prepared for a terrific struggle—and the
Leg. Council refused to oblige liim. So he
just had to resume his clothes and his
scowl and plod on.
The farmer continues to send his deputa-
tions to the city; and the Labor nolitician,
who is mostly a city politician, continues to
do nothing for him with tremendous indus-
try. At latest old Redrust has been asking
the N.S.W. Government to provide a million
so that the storekeepers may carry their
cocky clients on another year. They would
be far better advised to stick to their demand
Redrust’s turn to go on strike.
for a sales tax on flour so that they may
get another shilling at least for wheat used
locally. They can get it all right. There
is no sense in one section doing all the
striking. If old Redrust sat on his wheat-
bag and said “I’m tired and am taking a
rest —I’ll only be putting in enough next
year for my own family’s needs,” he would
soon be negotiated with most affably.
“Brick Court”: It wasn’t expected that
Richard Buckley would hang, but the Hogan
Government would have done better to rest
the commutation of the death penalty upon
Labor’s objection to capital punishment in
any case than to argue that there were cir-
cumstances warranting the exercise of
clemency in this particular one. One reason
given was that the crime was committed
seven years ago, though it doesn’t seem much
palliation that the actual murderer should
have managed to dodge retribution for that
period while an accomplice was caught and
executed. The other reason is that Buckley
is an old man of 67. Yet the fewer years a
man has to live, in the _ natural order of
things, the less he loses in having his life
cut short for his misdeeds. The Government,
paradoxically enough, extended mercy to an-
other convicted murderer at the same time
that Buckley received it; in the other case
it was the slayer’s youth—he was but 19 —
that saved him from the gallows !


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“O’Toole”: Reporting for a country news-
paper has its alleviations. At the annual
meeting of the committee of our School
of Arts it was duly proposed and seconded
that a certain taciturn but obviously well-
trusted agriculturist of the district should
be given the job of buying £5O worth of
new books for the library. The gentleman
singled out for the honor objected, on the
ground that he never read books. “We ain’t
askin’ you to read books, Bill,” the presi-
dent pointed out gravely; “we’re askin’ yon
to buy them. The members will read them.
Overborne by the weight of numbers Bill
gave in.
* * * *
“Bill O’C.”: A visit paid last year to an
American friend in a reputedly sober and
highly respectable New England State left
no" doubt in my mind about the base uses
found for the floods of grapejuice which have
made Uncle Sam’s Californian vineyards
about the most profitable on earth. My
host, who in the course of a few days had
produced for my entertainment several kinds
of cocktail, a bottle of excellent sherry and
another of something camouflaged as Scotch
whisky, mentioned that he had also “a bar 1
of wine matooring” in his cellar. I asked
what sort of wine, and he said he didnt
know yet; probably it would be just “wine.
Further inquiries elicited that liis work as
cellarman was simplified by the juice uier-
chants delivering their barrels so fitted that
all the buyer had to do was to break a seal
which, either by admitting air or introducing
a yeast ferment, or both, started a kick going
merrily. My friend told me that all that
remained was for him to introduce at the
RUNNING SECOND, ANYHOW.
DAISIE: “Is Captain Flag flap engaged?”
MAISIE: “No; but he told me he had the refusal of four girls.”
DAISIE: “Is that so? He asked them, and they said no, I suppose.”
proper stage a film of suitable oil which
checked the ferment as required ; after that
the product was . duly qualified wine. I was
fortunate enough to escape before the test-
ing-time—the “matooring” was to take at
least a fortnight.
* * * *
“Farleigh”: A mild revival of the hunger-
striking that the English suffragettes first
brought into fashion was essayed by some of
the Communists recently gaoled in Sydney,
but they soon desisted from this form of self-
imposed martyrdom. Public opinion might
condemn the forcible feeding of more or less
hysterical women, but it is not so tender in
the case of men even if they could be accepted
as honest fanatics. A prescription for
hunger-strikers offered by a local medico-
politician was to provide the refractories with
milk instead of water to drink, on the ground
that the pangs of hunger don’t amount to
much' after the first few days of starvation,
whereas those of thirst become intolerable.
This rough-and-ready specific, however, would
almost certainly have been denounced as a
more refined form of torture than even
forcible feeding in the days when hunger-
striking seriously bothered the British prison
authorities. There was one devotee of the
cult who complained bitterly that his custo-
dians were not playing the game when they
introduced nourishment into his system while
he was in an unconscious state.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Geelong reports the latest Mara-
thon insanity. A youth with nothing better
to do played midget golf continuously for 100
hours. Then he rested for eight hours and
returned for another dose of it.
$ * * $
“Clerestory”: The cathedral of St. John
in New York, out of which the much-adver-
tised Judge Lindsey, of companionate mar-
riage notoriety, was recently kicked by order
of the bishop, has Australian affiliations. It
is one of three designed by an English archi-
tect named Pearson who, though he died
young, was already acclaimed the greatest
modern master of ecclesiastical Gothic. The
second is in Liverpool, while Brisbane claims
the third, not yet completed. The Brisbane
design is unlike anything ever attempted in
this country, and will have no rival in dig-
nity and beauty when it is finished.
sis * * *
“Adelaide”: A drowning case at Renmark
(S.A.) seems to illustrate the blind panic,
and fear of personal responsibility that takes
the child-mind in presence of a comrade’s
death. A boy of 13 was drowned in the
Murray. The only eye-witness was a smaller
boy of nine, and he asked his companions
not to tell anyone, as he might be blamed
“for not calling out loud enough.” Then he
told the police that he had appealed for help
tc a man on the bank, who dived in to the
rescue and was never seen again. They
reported at the inquest that every effort
had been made to trace this rescuer (“wear-
ing a black cap with a tassel”), but nobody
else had seen him, either dead or alive.
* * * *
“T. Trove” : The Sydney coroner who held
an inquest into the Sirius Bay treasure
trove (B. 10/12/’3O) awarded the pickle
bottle of sovereigns to the German Thiel
on condition that he gave the finder, young
Spain, £5O. The ruling may be equitable, as
such things go, but some of the strictures
passed in court on the German, who was
taxed with meanness and told that lie cut
a poor figure because his expressed inten-
tion was to offer the finder only 10 per cent,
of the money, seem unnecessarily harsh.
There was no shadow of doubt that the
£2OO-odd was his ; he gave a perfectly reason-
able account of why lie planted it; it repre-
sented most of what he had in the world ;
and he had to pay £3O for the inquiry which
established his ownership. No doubt the Boy
Scout’s honesty was highly commendable, but
that it entitled the lad to one-third of the
spoil, as the coroner suggested before accept-
ing a compromise, is a highly debatable pro-
position.
* * * *
“Darlinghearsed” : Recently we moved into
new premises with superb views of the
brewers’ waggons that bring supplies to the
hotel next door, and of the flappers who
dress before the windows of the flats oppo-
site ; but what intrigues me even more is
the number of the street traders and the
variety of their cries. Yesterday the first
milkman rattled his pails at. 3.45 a.m., and
the last hot-pie merchant raised his mourn-
ful wail at 11.20 p.m.; in between, leaving
out the other milkmen and the bakers,
half a dozen newspaper runners struggled
for custom twice in the . day, eight sellers
of flowers vociferated their wares, two men
came with rabbits, five with vegetable and
fruit carts and one with ice-cream; there
were 14 basket and suitcase carriers who sold
variously strawberries, cherries, pickles, mis-
cellaneous haberdashery, prawns, fancy
cakes, face powder, and Heaven knows what
not. Among other operators I noticed two
men lugging electric cleaners along, another
who was selling a patent perambu-
lator and yet another with a patent cooker.
Two sooty wood-and-coal merchants deject-
edly trailed along the street finding business
poor on a hot day, one knife-sharpener adver-
tised his occupation in a tone of dismal hope-
lessness, and a chairmender followed him. I
lost count of the bottle-oh men after the
tenth, and of the street musicians and
singers after the fifteenth. All this in a
street where there is already a plethora of
mixed shops dealing in most of the goods the
itinerant vendors haul with them! It is
hard to understand why the casual traders
do not learn to spread themselves better.
* * * *
“X.S.”: The other evening Stewart Kear-
ney and liis aged mother, residents of East
Malvern (Vic.), heard noises that suggested
HER AWFUL ERROR.
“I hear Clara is dissatisfied with the bonds of matrimony.”
“Yes. You see she mistook them for gilt-edged securities.”
some unauthorised person had entered their
house. Arming himself with a hammer and
his mother with a poker, Kearney proceeded
to investigate, and the pair presently came
on a burly man who levelled an automatic
and ordered “Hands up.” Breaking all the
rules laid down by the American movies,
Kearney and his mother attacked simul-
taneously from both sides. The son was
knocked on the head, and the mother bowled
over by a blow from the revolver in the
jaw, but they picked themselves up and pur-
sued the desperado into the garden. Here
Kearney hurled his hammer and missed, but
his mother brought her poker down on the
ruffian’s head before he managed to make
his escape. This is the fourth or fifth time
in a twelvemonth that a Melbourne woman
has failed to observe the rules according to
Hollywood when faced with an armed
criminal.
* * * *
“Whitehall”: After the U.S.A., Australia
can probably show more public drunks than
any other country, and I fancy the same
conditions are to blame. That is to say, high
wages and restrictions which give drinking
something of the exciting mystery women’s
calves enjoyed in the long-skirt era. Gilbert
Mant wrote of London in a recent issue of
the “British Australasian” :
It is the soberest city I have ever been in. I
have yet to see a drunken man reeling about the
streets—a common enough spectacle in Australia, where
stupid early-closing laws stampede business men to
the bars at 5.45 p.m.
And in the same week a man who had visited
Ireland after a lapse of 15 years wrote in
the London “News-Chronicle”:—
In a three weeks’ tour, during which I visited
Dublin, Limerick, Ennis, Galway, Connemara, Ath-
lone, Mullingar, Drogheda and Dundalk, I saw only
three intoxicated people.
There is another factor which I noticed at
work recently both in England and Ireland.
In those countries women are turning down
drunks in a determined and wholesale man-
ner. The drunk used to be more or less a
hero in the U.K. in a period that ended
roughly with the war; now he is more or
less an outcast. Judging by the films, drunks
are still admired and envied by the girls in
America, and they are certainly far from
unpopular socially in Australia.
* * * *
“Expatriate”: Australia is the only coun-
try in the world where you can’t place a man
by his voice. I arrived at Sydney Plaza
the other night while a shadow of the late
Lord Birkenhead (who articulated well even
for the London Bar) was holding forth.
Noticing that Parker Moloney was to follow
him, I prepared to have my cultural sensi-
bilities lacerated by contrast. Not so, how-
ever. Moloney turned out to have _ a fine
vo } ce —almost as resonant and melodious as
Birkenhead’s —and hardly a trace of an
accent. Then came Lyons, who displayed
nearly every fault known to the Australian
vo i ce —notably a marked whine and a ten-
dency to mishandle vowel sounds. Theo-
dore ‘ (heard both on a Fox Movietone film
and in West Sydney) elocuted as faultlessly
as a first-class Shakspearean actor. I would
defy anyone to guess his nationality by his
voice Scullin, on the other hand, is fright-
ful and so is Lang. All the leading Nation-
alists in the N. S. Wales Parliament have
Australian accents, including the Maori-
lander Bavin. Attorney-General Boyce 3
sound even more piercing when be is talk
ing in person than they do from a film; and
he gave some striking examples of how not
to do it during his film speech of welcome
to Amy Johnson -at Mascot. Hugh Main,
M.L.A. and James Macarthur-Onslow,
M.L.C.,’ are rich squatters, and both have
marked accents. When they express, as they
often do, the hauteur of the ancten regime m
high Cockney voices the effect is striking.
The great advantage of the Australian voice
is its audibility. The much-boomed Dublin
voice is miles behind it in this respect. Go
to the Plaza and hear Shaw, who is supposed
to have the most faultless kind of Dublin
voice, after Moloney and you 11 understand
what I mean.
“Idleberg”: The .biggest head of water
that has come down the Yarra for many
years followed the recent heavy rains, and
at places around Heidelberg the river was
a mile and more wide. Few people who
watched Chinamen chasing their cabbages
and dairy-farmers rescuing their cattle in
boats knew that the waste of waters, lay
over one of the most amazing subdivisioual
projects ever engineered in the history of
the State. In 1892, when the land boom
was at its lyric height, huge areas of the
Yarra flats were sold in Collins-street with-
out purchasers in many cases knowing the
exact locality of their blocks. One estate
in particular was sold to a syndicate for
£60,000. It was cut up for residential pur-
poses, and the lots were sold on a bi-monthly
instalment plan. The first and the second
instalments were duly paid, but on the due
date of the third there was six feet of water
over most of the estate. The original owner
bought it back for £lO,OOO and placidly
resumed dairying.
* * * *
“Morita”: There were war-time notes in
France and Flanders for much lower
amounts than five rupees (B. 10/12/’3O).
The lowest French Government note was
the five-franc, but each arrondisscment was
authorised to issue its own one-franc, half-
franc and occasionally even 25-centime
notes. They were of all colors and sizes;
I have seen 25-centime ones little bigger than
a tram-ticket. The flimsy things wore badly,
too, and newspaper was often gummed right
across the back to keep them together. The
authorities who issued them must have pro-
fited vastly by different districts refusing to
accept the currency of other arrondissements,
sometimes only a few kilos, away. It was
often months before we Diggers were back
where the notes could be changed again, with
the result that till they were unrecognisable
or fell to pieces they changed hands around
the two-up schools.
sss ' *
“Jarrah Joe”: Old John Forrest, in the
days when he ran Westralia, never wavereu
in his opinion that the best town in it was
Bunbury, where he had been born and which
he represented. He seldom missed a chance of
dragging some eulogistic reference to it into
his speeches, and he did it so often on the
goldfields that there came a time when the
bare mention of the old Groper seaport was
enough to provoke good-humored derision, and
to earn for Bunbury the synonym of “The
Birthplace,” with the accent on the article.
Nevertheless, Bunbury has kept up its repu-
tation by producing two more Premiers since
Forrest. The first was Newton Moore, who
had a five-year run before he went to London
as Agent-General and found the job a step-
ping stone to the House of Commons; the
second the equable-tempered James Mitchell,
now in his third term of office. Lord
Beaconsfield once claimed that the soil of
Buckinghamshire was more favorable to the
growth of Prime Ministers than that of any
other English county, and it looks as if a
similar contention might be raised on behalf
of Bunbury. John Forrest’s brother Alec,
the financier of the family, who rose to be
Mayor of Perth, was another Bunbury native,
but he used to tell how as soon as he reached
21 he decided the place was too small to
hold him and his ambitions. So he packed
his valise and lit out for York, which
appealed to him as more live and go-ahead in
those days.
ANOTHER PORTRAIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She is so like so many lovely things!
But here’s what strikes
Just as impressively the swain who’s got
To tote her round and foot the reckonings:
There are so many lovely things she likes,
Yes, such a lot!
She is so like cool drinks —too right, she is:
Lure in her lips
And sparkle in her eyes, such as you see
la rosy Burgundy or , creaming fizz.
(And either with exceeding zest she sips,
Take it from me.)
She is so like the choicest fish or game
Gourmets adore.
As strawberries and cream her charms
enthral.
The piquant fragrance of her puts to shame
The costliest cigarettes. And, what is more,
She loves them all.
She is so like so many lovely things.
And it’s as sure
She likes them just as well as any man.
The menu she can play from chickens’ wings
The whole way through to coffee and liqueur.
My oath, she can!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Der Jong” : Sydney Scots’ College is dress-
ing its cadet corps in the kilt—with the other
accessories, of course. I pity the youths if
they ever have to train over seedy grass
country in the dry season. There is nothing
AS FAR AS SHE WOULD GO.
Old Boy (supposed to be on the lookout): “Er—do you remember
any of the old-fashioned dances?”
GIRS (on the lookout, too): “Oh, yes. I can just remember the
Charleston.”
like a kilt for picking up grass seed, with
the result that the swinging edges soon
reduce the knee area to bleeding rawness. The
Queensland .Scottish found this out when
manoeuvring on the western downs during
the shearers’ strike of 1891. Years later in
South Africa, on the veldt east of Pretoria,
I had a chance of seeing the same thing for
myself. Under active-service conditions the
raw surfaces rapidly get septic. I hate to
write it, but I have seen one of our haugh-
tiest Hielan’ regiments reduced to begging
oat- and mealie-bags from Kaffir transport
drivers wherewith to protect their vulner-
able areas.
* * * *
“Emel”: The Vic. Chief Secretary, who
suggests that “tap” dancing should decrease
the number of wallflowers (B. 26/11/’3O),
is unduly sanguine. I have formed part
of the mural decorations so often that I can
assure him it does nothing of the sort. When
a “tap” dance is announced, young men who
cannot secure a favorite partner take up a
position that will enable them to comman-
deer her. Certainly they lose her quickly-
but they would sooner take the risk than be
saddled for a whole dance with a “dud.” A
girl’s popularity is gauged by the rapidity
with wdiich her partners change. But even
the damsel who keeps her cavalier right
through the dance is one degree better off
than the wallflower, who still looks on.
* * * *
“Nakh”: If a genial climate makes for
mendicancy (B. 3/12/’3O), why are beg-
gars as numerous about the Kremlin in
Moscow as they are at the entrances to every
temple in Singapore? From my observation
professional beggars flourish and multiply
in any and every country where the belief
prevails that reward can be laid up in the
next world by free giving in this. In Tibet
the priest is a sort of mendicant, and the
country succeeds somehow in maintaining
one head of lama to every six of the general
population. In Shanghai on the official open-
ing of spring the road from the foreign settle-
ment to the Loongwha Pagoda (six miles)
is lined several beggars deep on both sides.
Young Chinese bloods make the pilgrimage
in their motor-cars, standing up and scat-
tering cash right and left as they go. In
India it is estimated that five million
religious mendicants live on alms from the
cradle to the grave.
"H ill
“Percy Pawnticket”: Watching the acti-
vities of a Father Christmas at one of Syd-
ney’s big stores I was
struck by the apprehen-
siveness with which some
of the very small child-
ren regarded the hirsute
gentleman. “I don’t
like his beard!” wailed
one toddler, getting be-
hind such skirts as his
mother possessed, and
that seemed to reflect
the general infant sen-
timent. In my own
childhood, any man
with plentiful facial up-
holstery inspired my
confidence; and I can
still remember enter-
taining a vague timidity
and distrust for the
very few who in those
days were clean-shaven.
Change of fashion, of
course, has made the
infants of to-day fami-
liar with shaven chins
and inclined to shy at whiskers.
* * * *
“W.L.”: Master mariners who trade in
the. Pacific are beginning to wonder whether
the great earthquake in Tokio did not shift
the axis of the earth a little. Ever since
that big shake, the weather in the Pacific
has been different. The trade winds do not
blow with such regularity and their direc-
tion varies, while in the North Pacific the
weather is milder. This is shown by the
noticeable freedom from ice in the waters
leading to Behring Strait, and by a longer
summer on the Alaskan coast, where the
salmon-fishing outfits are able to remain six
weeks later than formerly before hurrying
back to San Francisco for the winter.
* * $ $
“Lao-dah”: I have seen some European
riots (B. 3/12/’3O), but for dramatic inten-
sity they didn’t approach one I witnessed in
Shanghai. A mob of maddened millworkers,
headed by students,
nany of them mere
boys, were charging
down a street when
they w T ere met by a
force of Sikh police
and volunteers drawn
across the road. A
clash seemed inevit-
able, and the order
to ready rifles was
given. At that omi-
nous clatter the
charging mob stop-
ped and then sud-
de n 1 y disappeared.
At least, so it seemed
to onlookers situ-
ated in the rear.
Actually, the entire
multitude had plump-
ed down on its
knees. From this
position the leaders
shrieked an impas-
sioned exhortation to
the military not to
be “the running dogs
of the European im-
perialists,” etc. The
Sikhs stolidly stared
at the enemy with-
out understanding a
word, but the crisis
was over, and the
mob eventually dis-
persed. In China
this kneeling tech-
nique is constantly
used, and when “in-
cidents” are wanted
by any political fac-
tion it is necessary
to employ agents
provocateurs to get
the necessary blood-
shed going at full swing.
* ❖ jfe
“Mells”: The type of sex criminal I
pointed to as being certain to work alone,
because of the repulsion his crimes would
inspire even among hardened criminals, was
the outrager and slayer of little girls, such
as Colin Ross, or the apparently wanton
killer and mutilator of women, such as
London’s “Jack the Ripper’’ of 42 years ago.
In the last few weeks, Melbourne has had
an instance of each. “M. de S.” (B.
10/12/’3O) puts forward the Mount Rennie
larrikins of 1886 and the two Sydney per-
verts now serving sentences for a horrible
assault on a girl four years ago as evidence
that sex criminals don’t always work alone.
But there are obvious distinctions between
the. cases on which I hung my paragraph
and those he cites. For one thing, the latter,
whatever infamies they may have perpe-
trated, stopped short of killing their victims.
* * * *
“2nd Divvy”: After many years’ study of
politics I have come to the conclusion that
Labor’s chief advantage in Australia is its
knack of getting the Empire Men against it.
Not the men who make sacrifices for the
Empire, but those who make capital out of
it. Before the Avar they tried to block the
R.A.N. and compulsory service, on the alleged
ground that for Australia to want to defend
itself was an insult to the Empire. There
was another Empire demonstration, with
Tom ’Enley in the lead, when a State Labor
Government took over Federal Government
House (as it then was) and ended the costly
farce of maintaining huge mansions for two
Exes., one of whom was in Sydney for only
a few weeks every year. At the beginning of
the war the Empire Men laid it down that
the proper course for a loyalist to pursue
was to enlist in England, the A.I.F. being
tainted through its ex-trainees with the un-
English Labor policy of Conscription. Few
enlisted anywhere themselves. I made a list
of N.S.W.’s most vociferous Empire Men in
1914 —public speakers and “S. M. Herald”
IT MADE NO DIFFERENCE TO HER.
“Now you must serve from the left, and take the plates from the right—do you
understand?”
“Yes, Ma’am. I’ll try, though I ain’t a bit superstitious myself.”
correspondents, who could always be relied on
to protest when any change of a national
character was projected. I referred back to
my list after the Armistice, and found that
of the 23 prominent citizens whose names
figured on it not one had gone overseas as a
combatant, and only half a dozen had put
their services at the Empire’s disposal as
transport officers or Red Cross workers. Yet
most of them were of fighting age, and
several were soldiers. And now we have
the Federal Opposition talking the same old
fustian about the appointment of an Aus-
tialian as Governor-General —a change which
Downing-street is known to favor now, as
it favored the R.A.N. when the Dreadnought
Fund was started in the Union Club. The
Prince said, when he was out. here, that
such people “almost made a disloyalist of
him,” and that is a measure of humbler, men’s
reactions to our professional loyalists’ habit
of taking the King’s name in vain.
*l* »!*
“Adelaide” : A South Aus. coroner has had
his knuckles severely rapped by Attorney-
General Denny for committing on a murder-
charge a constable who fatally shot an escap-
ing prisoner. The Crown Prosecutor re-
ported : “I see no reason for thinking the
statement that the shot was only fired to
frighten was not true. But assume that he
fired to hit. The prisoner had been lawfully
arrested for a felony. He made his escape,
was called on to surrender, and failed to
do so. The constable is charged with murder
for having done no other than his duty. It
an impression has been created that a police
officer is not allowed to make. reasonable
use of the firearm with which he is. equipped,
the sooner it is dispelled the better.”
Hs ❖ * *
“C ”: “J.H.M.A.” says that Buckley, the
“wild white man,” could never give , a
coherent account of his 32 years with
the natives (B. 3/12/’3O), but I have
always understood that his “Life and
Adventures,” published by John Morgan at
TIME WORKS CHANGES.
MRS. NEWLYWED: “My husband blushes when he hands me money. I think it’s so
charming of him.”
MRS. OLDERBIRD: “Yes, my husband blushes, too. And so he ought to, the mean wretch.”
Hobart in 1852, was coherent enough. It
took a good bit of persuasion on Morgan’s
part to get the story, but Buckley’s pension
of £l2 a year from the Tasmanian Govern-
ment was little enough, and Morgan’s terms
were alluring. Long before that, in 1836,
Governor Arthur had published in England
Buckley’s first account of his 32 years’
absence. This was obtained by surveyor
Wedge, who saw the w-anderer at Indented
Head when he joined Batman’s camp.
“1440”: My own memories of Villers-
Bretonneux have nothing to do with the
lusciousness of the currants (B. 5/11/’3O).
The grim picture that rises in my mind was
indelibly fixed there on an Augfist afternoon
in 1918. Fourteen tanks, the biggest and
most modern on the Western Front, loaded
with Mills bombs, trench-mortar “plum pud-
dings” and small arms as well as provisions
for the troops, had pulled into the shelter of
an orchard on the outskirts of the town the
previous night ready to follow the attack
next morning. Fritz found out something
and dropped shells around that orchard most
of the day. Hundreds had fallen before a
hit was scored that wrought the maximum
of devastation. A hot splinter of h.-e. pene-
trated a two-gallon tin of petrol that was
standing close to an open door. One tank
only was saved.
* * * *
“Nejd”: The finest Arab stud outside
Arabia itself was dispersed recently in
Britain, when the Crabbet Park stallions
and mares were sold at auction by the owner,
Lady Wentworth. The stud was founded by
her father, Wilfrid Scawen Blunt, the
greatest authority on the Arab peoples
since Richard Burton. The burden of taxa-
tion is given as the reason for the sale, the
breeding of the beautiful desert horses being
an expensive hobby rather than a commercial
proposition. Light Horsemen in Egypt will
recall a similar establishment maintained,
incongruously enough, by two British spin-
sters of uncertain age. This was at Zeitoun,
near Cairo, and the general opinion among
the Aussies was that the splendid little
neddies were better worth while as pets
than parrots, poodles or Persian cats.
“Pusing Kepala”: Pa Bakea, thp leading
shikari of Banyuwangy, Java, put the case
for the supernatural to me in a nutshell
the other evening. We were walking along
a jungle path about 4000 feet up when
across a glade a few hundred yards ahead
flitted a small pack of wild dogs. The
usually well-behaved Pa Bakea promptly
flopped down on his hands and knees and
let out a series of realistic barks. Then he
lamely explained. They might be ordinary
wild dogs. But at this distance you couldn t
be sure. They might be part of the pack of
the Spectral Huntsman. If they bark at a
man first he will die before nightfall, but
if the man barks first he will survive. And
what, about me?” I asked. “Oh,” said ra
Bakea, “white men don’t believe; therefore
the spirits can have no effect upon you.
IN VINO VERITAS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A well-dressed stranger who had roamed into the
press gallery of the Vic. Assembly, obviously under
the influence of drink, startled the House by leaning
over and shouting-, ‘To the Devil with the whole lot
of you! I have lost my job. You ought to be
shot! We would all be a lot better off!’ Hustled
out by the police, he burst into tears.”
“You should be shot,” he cried in anger hot,
“The whole darned lot!”
He never troubled to discriminate
Where all the worth and wisdom of the State
Nightly and at portentous length debate
Cures for the maladies themselves have
caused.
To allocate the blame he' never paused.
His cup of woe (like those he’d drained)
a-brim,
They were all one to him.
“You should be shot,” he savagely averred,
Using the word
Not in the sense it would have signified
If to himself colloquially applied.
Ah, no. I think those blinking eyes, descried
A Parliament from factious strife withdrawn
And ranged in rows against a wall at dawn.
There teas a Ministry they treated so
I.a Greece not long ago.
“You should be shot,” he sourly intervened,
And to the F'iend,
The Grim Custodian of Hell’s hottest hob
Unceremoniously consigned the mob
On whom he blamed liis shortage of a job.
And did he, think you, do his block foreby,
And to the flowing bowl for comfort fly,
Before into those stately halls he went
To rail at Parliament?
“You should be shot,” he shrilled, and left
in tears
To sink more beers,
And point a moral for those souls devout
Who never have the shadow of a doubt
That when the wine is in the wit is out.
Still, there’s another proverb one might place
As having equal bearing on the case,
And, with submission, I suggest it has:
In vino veritas.
N.S.w.
T. THE R.


Three Dainty Little Brooches-
jhjh
Three whole pearls set in 15ct.
gold Safety-pin Brooch, lj
inches long
35/'
hjhj
Whole pearl set in white gold-
faced yellow gold 8r00ch....
£2/2/=
#
Choice diamond set in white
gold Brooch
-ISIS'S
Inexpensively
Priced
Fairfax and Roberts have designed
these three dainty little brooches
specially for this season.
They are extremely useful and
in excellent taste, and are defi-
nitely inexpensive. Whilst one
does not feel disposed to spend as
lavishly as in the past, it is sug-
gested that these brooches provide
a means whereby a small expen-
diture can go far in the purchase
of a gift certain of appreciation.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS, LTD.,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney.”
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
C J
Always Order
SCHWEPPES
DRY
GINGER
ALE
The Standard o f
Comparison through-
out the World.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES AND IMITATIONS.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
History repeated itself in M.L. recently
when during the illness of Acting-Primin-
ister Ransom the reins of office were taken
over by a native, the portly Apirana Ngata.
Similarly the late James Carroll deputised for
Ward while the latter was at King George's
coronation. Ngata is the trusted rangitira
of an influential tribe and a mellifluous
orator. In the purely pakeha realm of
achievement he holds the M.A. and LL.B.
degrees.
When Isaac Isaacs, the new G.-G., was a
junior teacher at Beechworth State school
(Vic.) 56 years ago, he had already begun
to hold strong opinions on most subjects
and was never afraid to ventilate them. This
sometimes led to trouble. One fellow-teacher
with whom Isaacs clashed lodged a com-
plaint against him, probably after being
worsted dialectically. Inspector Burke, who
adjudicated, lectured both parties, but a
little later he wrote on Isaacs’s record, “A
very promising teacher.” Fame has failed
to pursue the other man. Isaacs has always
maintained his youthful reputation for inde-
pendence. Twenty years after the Beech-
worth incident he found himself out of step
with the Patterson Cabinet on a matter
relating to the administration of justice, and
left the Ministry. It has never troubled
him as a High Court Judge to be occasion-
ally in a minority.
“Lex”: Life lost much of its savor for
Isaacs when Knox replaced Griffith on the
High Court Bench. Not that Isaacs and
the genius from Bananaland liked each
other. Far from it. But while Griffith
was there Isaacs had a stimulating opponent,
who always gave him a run for his controver-
sial money, and who could occasionally be
nonplussed. Griffith was a greater lawyer
than his rival —he was the greatest, for that
matter, that Australia has produced—but
he wasn’t such a hard worker. _ Nothing
pleased Isaacs so much, or so infuriated the
C.J., as a difference of opinion in which
Isaacs revealed an intimate acquaintance
with some recondite American decision
which his learned brother didn’t happen to
know about —not having spent hours study-
ing the subject in the Attorney-General's
Library, Sydney, as Isaacs had. Such are
the austere intellectual joys in which the
present C.J. has revelled for 30 years, and
life is going to lose a lot more of its savor
when the Governor-Generalship robs him of
the last remains of them. When I consider
his temperament I am far from envying him
his job.
Writing a column of “Lambertiana” in the
“S. M. Herald” last week, Arthur H. Adams,
well-known author and writer of much very
graceful verse, mentioned that the first time
he met George Lambert was just before
The Bulletin Co. published liis, Adams’s,
A Lambert drawing of ARTHUR ADAMS.
first book of verse. A. G. Stephens sug-
gested that instead of getting the customary
photo they should commission Lambert to
do a ’ pencil portrait. Adams agreed, and
the drawing was made —“black beard and
all.” The portrait is one of the most faith-
ful Lambert ever did. and the work m it
as dainty as any in The Bulletin s port-
folio of Lambert originals.
Harry Gregory, M.H.R., is probably the
only Federal legislator who holds a decora-
tion from a foreign Government, outside of
those secured for war-time services. This is
the Chevalier Cross of the Crown of Italy,
conferred upon him when he was VVestralian
Minister for Mines in 1907. An Italian
miner, one Yarischetti, was trapped by flood
waters in a mine at Bonnievale, near Cool-
gardie, and a few days later Australia was
ringing with the story of his rescue by Diver
Hughes. Hughes was lionised and a good
deal of money collected for him —though he
afterwards fell on evil times and died in
poverty; Gregory’s tribute came from Varis-
clietti’s country.
“Stonewall” Jackson is to be Sydney’s
next Lord Mayor—“ Stonewall” Jackson,
head of a
string of city
Blioe-shops. He
was a rural
worker, doing
anything that
came to his
hand, until he
had saved a
bit of money.
He put this
into a boot-
store; then
he moved to
Sydney, and
soon his tre-
mendous energy
had written
his name over
several. He
knows the
value of adver-
tisement, free
if possible: he
gets his freest 1
out of a tre-
mendous mop
of hair. In
the country
he was in
great request
as .an enter-
tainer: he can
recite “Banjo”
and others by
the h o u r—
which helped
him into Par-
Sydney’s new Lord
Mayor.
li ament, and also helped him to acquire an
enormous personal popularity throughout
Nepean.
Admiral Sir Richard Poore, who was one
of the last C.-in-C.’s of the Australian station
—his term was from 1908-11 —hauled down
his flag for the last time in England last
week at 77. He saw much active service in
various parts of the world up to his retire-
ment in 1917, and held many high commands.
A pleasant personality, and unusually human
for an admiral, he was thoroughly well liked
on this side of the world, of which he wrote
appreciatively in a book of memoirs. Lady
Poore, one of the most charming and witty
women who ever presided over an Admiralty
House drawing-room, also wrote a book,
and in it tells the story of the old Sydney
lady who was bored stiff by the superior
airs of an English couple introduced to her.
Said one of them: “Do you reahlly mean
to tell me, deali lady, you have nevah
been to England? Surely you desiah to
do so?” The “birthstain” gag was occa-
sionally trotted out against “colonials” even
in those comparatively late days, so the old
lady hopped in first. “Go to England?” she
said with a shudder. “Good heavens, no!
That’s where all the convicts came from!”
Monsignor O’Haran had been 50 years a
priest last Monday, In Cardinal Moran’s
day he was, next to the imposing senator
himself, the best known figure in his church
in Sydney; but after the succession of Arch-
bishop Kelly “the Dane” took over Darling-
hurst parish, part of Sydney’s most con-
gested area. An old, old man, he seems
rather solitary in this new generation, but
retains all the polish and grace which made
him so conspicuous at St. Mary’s 40 years
ago. The most surprising thing about his
jubilee is that he was able to rake together
300 guineas to give to the Hospice for the
Dying as an anniversary present.
Softgoodsman William Latfilain, M.L.C.,
returns to the Perth mayoral chair, which
he occupied from 1917 to 1923 —J. T. Frank-
lin has filled it for the last seven years.
Lathlain’s. only serious opponent on this occa-
sion was the evergreen Tom Molloy, who
put up a much better fight than usual for
a veteran who has made a regular business
of contesting mayoral and Parliamentary
elections, with the minimum of success, for
nearly 40 years. Lathlain, who is a native
of Clunes (Vie.),, was knighted in 1921
when Perth reached its 50tli year of city-
hood. He went out of office seven years ago
because of the warring parochial interests
he stirred up by trying to fix a definite site
for the new Town Hall which Perth has had
in its mind’s eye for a quarter of a century
or more. He may have better luck this
trip, or, profiting by his experience, he may
decide to let the contentious question stay
shelved.
Governor-General Isaacs and ex-Governor-
General Tim Healy were born in the
same year, but the latter decided he
was too old for the job a year or
two before the age at which the former is
cheerfully stepping into it. This may be
regarded as a proof of the superior virility of
the Jew. Healy, howmver, probably took
more out of himself than Isaacs in earlier
life; he was a Home Rule M.P. for nearly
40 years, and a desperately hard political
fighter most of the time as well as an indus-
trious lawyer. In the ’eighties he was, of
course, a devoted adherent of Parnell, but
he turned against his old leader when the
party split in 1890. Unlike Isaacs, he was
born with law in his blood, one might say;
“the Healys,” a colleague once certified in
the House of Commons, “have been attorneys
in Ireland for six or seven generations.”
James'Dooley, of Lithgow (N.S.W.), who
was fined a nominal amount the other day
for some technical breach of the licensing
laws, is probably the only ex-Premier on
record who has taken to the beer pump for
a living. As an ex-Speaker, too, of the
rowdiest Assembly in Australia, Jim should
be able to quell any ordinary taproom dis-
turbance. On the other side of the picture
is Crawford Vaughan, sometime head of a
8. Aus. Cabinet, who nowadays hustles for
his bread and butter as a prohibition advo-
cate.
Dr. Charles Bage, who has passed over in
Melbourne at 71, had a brilliant career at
Melbourne Grammar and studied medicine
at the University. He graduated in 1887,
and after some years of suburban practice
put up his shingle as a specialist in Coliins-
street, becoming a recognised authority in
therapeutics, diabetics and hygiene. He gave
up practice in 1925 to serve as chairman and
president of a bewildering assortment of com-
mittees, from the St. John’s Ambulance to
the Red Cross V.A.D. ITe was a member
of the Felton Bequest committee from 1904
and chairman since 1910. Colac claimed
the doctor as one of its most distinguished sons.
“Deejay”: Ma State Education Minister
Davies has a close runner-up in the rose-
culture stakes (B. 3/12/’3O) in “Ironbark
Andy” Lysaght, the Attorney-General. Andy’s
day-labor-built home at Campbelltown, which
he has just left so as to reside in his newly
cut-up electorate, has one of the finest rose
gardens in the State. He grew blooms that
won ip hot competition, and seemed able to
produce them in any season. Andy laid
out, planted and tended the lot, and left
them regretfully.
Brigadier-General E. F. Harrison, who is
retiring from the post of commandant at
Duntroon, to which he was appointed a
couple of years ago, began as a one-pipper
in the militia garrison artillery in 1903.
Joining the permanent forces he held many
staff appointments, becoming Director of
Military Operations in 1914, after a course
at Quetta Staff College. Released for active
service in 1917, he served as a general staff
officer with the First and Third Divisions m
France until the Armistice, returning to the
Military Operations and Intelligence Depart-
ments in 1925. He succeeded General Heri-
tage at Duntroon.
George Phillips Barber has been M.L.A.
for Bundaberg in Queensland for so long
that the other
oldest inhabitants
of the House are
infants by comparh
son. True “Bishop
Barnes, now
his State’s Finance
Minister, got into
the House. just-
ahead of Barber;
but he wasn’t
always able to stay,
there. Bundaberg
never changes its
min d. It was
Labor as soon as
Labor was born : a
far-back member
was Tom Glassey,
afterwards one of
Queensland’s first
Labor Senators.
Barber has been its
member for just on
29 years. But though
all the colleagues
of his earliest days
except Barnes have
disappeared from
the House, he can
still pick up a few
outside. “Jimmy”
Blair, now Chief
Justice, for in-
stance, headed the
G. P. BARBER.
poll in Ipswich , . .
that election. But if Barber has kept his
seat few other honors have come his way:
he hasn’t once sat upon a Treasury bench
in all his long career.
A brilliant career was cut short at 46
when H. J. Priest died in Adelaide after a
long illness. The winner of all sorts of
scholarships at Prince Alfred’s School and
Adelaide University, he was only 25 when
he had to act as deputy for William L. Bragg
when that distinguished professor moved on
to Europe. Later he lectured in physics and
mathematics at Perth Technical College, and
finally at Brisbane University, where he
spent 14 years till his health broke down
in 1928.
Here Kerwin Maegraith, of Adelaide, puts
his young brother’s face on paper, and is
frankly proud to do it. Brian Maegraith
is the new Rhodes Scholar from S. Aus.: he
BRIAN MAEGRAITH.
lias just got his M.B. and B.S. degrees, makes
a hobby of astronomy, and broke into his
medical course 18 months back to go with
an expedition to Centralia, where lie made
tests of the blood pressure of aborigines. In
athletics he can hold his own on almost any
field; and he proposes to chase up physiology
at Oxford. Dad is in Dalgety’s in Adelaide.
The new president of S.A. Chamber of
Manufactures, succeeding Fred Simpson, of
the metalware firm, is Oscar Seppelt, one
of the heads of the wine-making industry
originally started by his grandfather at
Seppeltsfield.
A few months ago Jack Cain, Vic, Min-
ister for Railways, was pushing forward so
conspicuously inside and outside the Assem-
bly that many regarded him as a rival to
Hogan for the Parliamentary leadership, but
lie has fallen back to his old place. Deputy-
leader Tunnecliffe was never perturbed. He
had seen those sprints before. Four and a
half years and eight months ago Tunnecliffe
tried conclusions with Hogan for the leader-
ship after Prendergast retired. Hogan won
and proved a stayer.
Australia lost a publican of the fourth
generation when James S. F. Jurd died at
Homebush, Sydney. His pub was the Settlers’
Arms at St. Albans, which' was opened by
his great-grandfather 106 years ago and still
belongs to the family.
“Gunner Jones”: I embarked for Egypt
with “Captain Penfold” (the nom dc ballon
of Driver Vincent Taylor, who has just
died) in 1916. H'e interested me from the
beginning, as I had once seen him make a
lunatic ascent in his balloon from Clifton
Gardens, Sydney, in a gale. He was
a short, thick-set, elderly man at the
time, very deaf, and in poor health;
a standing indictment of the stalwarts
of the Rejected Volunteers’ Association,
which was then going strong in Aussie.
He was extremely religious (I forget the
brand), and allowed no improper stories or
oaths on his deck. He hadn’t even a stripe,
and, so far as I know, never got one, but
such was his strength of character that after
a while no one blasphemed or talked smut
when he was about —or, at any rate, not
loud enough for him to hear. As a worker
“Penfold” was a marvel. We had
horses on board, and he began with
the usual allotment of two, but as
men crocked up he took on more till
in the Red Sea he was actually grooming
and exercising five. Our paths diverged in
France, but I often heard of him as a brave
soldier. He made desperate efforts to get
into the A.F.C., in which his nerve, air
sense and mechanical ability should have
stood him in good stead, but thev wouldn t
have him. His deafness was given as the
reason.


CLOTHES
FOR MEN
hbjh
AND
THEIR SONS.
GRECIAN
SLIPPERS
Give Comfort to Men
A RESTFUL SLIPPER, of
Black or Tan Calf, with patent
leather facings. An
ideal gift. PRICE, 21/**
Pike Brothers
LIMITED,
IN QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
m
■■
[PREPARED,],
Guaranteed by the manufacturers to
go further, last longer and uniformly
give better results than any other
paint made. —“8.P.”
"KEEPS ON KEEPING ON!”
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
vM
mim
m
5s irJfP
is
Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner, a
la carte, from 1/6. Inclusive tariff from 13/6 per
day £4/4/- weekly. Special quotations for sport-
ing * bodies, etc. Situated right opposite Spencer
Street Station, no taxi fares; railway porter carries
baggage across if necessary. Please write for detailed
tariff 'card. Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is Sufficient
address.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Dalgety and Co., Ltd.
Ordinary Written off. Re-
June, Profits. Dividends.* Premises, serves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 282,577 15 p.c. = 150,000 50,000 1,028,505
1921.. 130,607 10 ~ „ 100,000 1,034,112
Taxation refund, £158,210 . . . . 1,192,322
Profit from sale of assets, £20,000 .. 1,212,322
1922.. 84,579 15 p.c. = 150,000 20,000 1,101,901
1923.. 239,162 15 „ ~150,000 50,000 1,116,063
1924.. 298,988 17 „ ~170,000 50,000 1,170,051
1925.. 336,313 17 „ ~170,000 75,000 1.236,364
1926.. 220,048 17 „ ~ 170,000 50,000 1,211,412
Premium on shares, £128,916 .. 1,340,328
1927.. 232,053 17 p.c. = 170,000 25,000 1,352,381
Premium on shares, £371,084 .. 1,723,465
1928.. 276,887 17 p.c. = 255,000 25,000 1,695,352
1929.. 337,590 17 „ ~ 255,000 25,000 1,727,942
1930.. 210,946 10 „ ~150,000 25,000 1,738,888
*The prefs. (5 p.c.) get £25,000 p.a.
This is the world’s largest wool-seller. Head-
quarters are in London, but the business is
nearly all done in Australia and Maoriland,
and a branch was recently opened in Kenya,
East Africa, where ready-made connections
were absorbed. Earnings therefore need
to be considered in relation to these figures,
which show the number of bales the co. put
under the hammer, and the average price
realised :
Aus- Maori- Average per
, tralia. land. Total. Bale.*
Bales sold —
1928.. 366,056 105,785 471,841 £24 19 11
1929.. 398,856 109,959 508,815 21 10 6
1930.. 400,761 84,262 485,023 13 2 2
*Australasia.
The lighter sales in Maoriland were the
result of a patchy season there.
Thus, after shearing off something for con-
tingencies, and in the circumstances it can
be taken for granted that it was more than
usual, gross profits slipped £206,669: —
1920. 1926. 1929. 1930.
Gross profits. £957,298 £951,648 £1,133,891 £927,222
Outgoings—
Salaries, exes.,
etc. . . 359,592 407,547 427,741 440,128
Depreciation 20,637
Interest . . 98,251 123,906 126,172 139,209
Taxes . . 186,241 125,147 157,388 111,939
Total outgo £664,721 £656,600 £711,301 £691,276
The saving in taxes was on account of
English assessments. Allowing for a bonus
to the staff of £60,000 in 1929, and contri-
butions to the staff fund (£25.000 last year),
the net result was £186,635 short of the
1929 figure, which benefited by a windfall
from Bawra. Still, including the £25,000,
but allowing for the pref. requirements, it
was 14 p.c. on the £1,500,000 of ord. capital
compared with 26.5, 21.7, 25.7 and 27 p.c.
back to 1926. In the circumstances the 7
p.c. bonus, sent out with the final distribu-
tion since 1923, was not repeated, thus leav-
ing the div. at 10 p.c.
Whether the 10 p.c. is likely to be inter-
fered with depends mainly upon factors out-
side the board’s control. With conditions as
they are few wool- and wheat-growers can
earn profits. Prospects of a worth-while lift
in prices are not bright; much therefore will
depend upon how soon costs can be
readjusted, and whether the provision for con-
tingencies proves to be adequate. How well
asset values have been protected in the past
is obvious from the fact that the co. has
never failed to register a profit or pay a div.
for the past 46 years ; and during the last
24 of them £890,000 has been visibly struck
off the book value of premises, and so passed
to inner reserves.
The solid nature of the financial structure,
and the way in which the co. has come to
the assistance of clients in a difficult time,
are seen in the next table:—
Liabilities.
1923. 1929 1930
Capital .. .. £1,500,000 £2,000,000 £2,000,000
Perpetual p.c... 499,910 749,910 749,910
„ 4 „ . . 1,725,544 1,725,544 1,725,544
Redeemable 44 p.c. 500,000
Terminable 64 p.c. 300,000 '
„ 6 „ 4,403
„ 5f „ 115,000
„ 5i „ 4,585* 74,000 281,145
„ 5± „ 137,399 129,399
„ 5 „ 40,625 214,055 204,505
„ 44 „ 7,910 18,630 15,960
Sundry creditors, etc. 2,830,846 2,774,237 2,903,769
Assets.
Advances, proper-
ties, etc. .. £3,644,976 £6,203,463 £6,904,290
Premises, etc. . . 397,217 320,025 300,754
Stock .. .. 418,347 749,554 707,532
Sundry debtors . . 870,630 880,961 1,177,900
Cash & investments 3,014,716 1,818,713 1,714,644
To add £700,827 to the book value of
advances and £296,939 to sundry debtors’
balances, £801,925 was plastered on to the
debenture debt and £129,523 on to the
amount coming to sundry creditors last year.
All but £11,225 of the floating debt was cov-
ered by the sundry debtors, cash and invest-
ment items alone when the books closed.
Investments, unchanged at £1,000.000, were
still at or below market value at June 30.
lhe boards affinity for cheap money shows
up m the. £3,721,463 of debenture debt, which
was costing the co. on the average only 4.4
p.c. at June 30.
, On the market the £2O ords. paid to £5
tetched ±l4 ss. a year ago; they are now
pnced around £B. At that figure the return
ls i P ,c \ . on P-c. div. basis. The
visible backing is £lO 15s. lid. in net tan-
gibles. The strongly-protected prefs. seldom
come on to the market.
Associated Newspapers, Ltd.
Encouraged by the success of the Sydney
Bun ’ during the w*ar and post-war years,
when money was plentiful and trade was
brisk, its ambitious management launched
in S oP cla £r,d Newspapers, Ltd., in October,
c< ie idea was to weld the interests of
S. Bennett, Ltd. (which publishes the
Evening News” and other journals) with
those of Sun Newspapers, Ltd., and thus gain
control of the evening-paper field. The merger
was carried through by a very generous ex-
change of scrip—l 7 prefs. and 34 ords. for
every 20 shares in the “Sun” co., and 10
prefs. and 20 ords. for every 20 of the
Bennett co.’s shares.
Then, in January last, the “Daily Guar-
dian and the “Sunday Guardian” were led
into the same stable by purchase from
Smith’s Newspapers, Ltd. The price
paid for the goodwill of the pair was
actually £575,000 in 400,000 fully-paid
prefs. and the balance cash. Later the
“Sain” co. took up a further 37,500 prefs. for
cash in connection with its purchase of the
remaining shares in the Daily Telegraph Pic-
torial, Ltd. Thus Associated’s paid capital
became £3,575,000 in 1,438,999 7 p.c. cum.
prefs. and 2,093,001 ords. at September 28.
The string of publications it controls now
includes the “Sun,” “Newcastle Sun,”
“Evening News,” “Telegraph Pictorial,”
Guardian,” with Sunday editions of the
“Sun,” “Guardian” and “Pictorial” and half
a dozen or so weeklies.
One result of the purchase of the “Guard-
ian” was to place a big wad of pref. capital
in front of the ords. Another was that
Associated became an operating as well as
a holding co., and has had to go into debt
to finance its trading operations. The ven-
dor continued to print and publish the “Guar-
dian,” under agreement, until May 4, since
when it has been turned out from the Ben-
nett co.’s plant. For the period to Sept. 28
the two subsidiaries sent along £115,665, of
which exes, took £13,212, leaving the net
result qt £102,453. That was after capitalis-
ing £15,073 of preliminary exes, and £2471
in connection with the “Guardian,” which
apparently made a small trading loss. Also
no allowance was made for taxation. The
prefs. called for £95,312 will be
required for the current term), and £3OOO
of the balance (£7140) is to be struck off
preliminary exes. The ords., of course, went
hungry, and it is difficult to catch a ray of
brightness in their immediate outlook.
Amongst other things the capital account is
top-heavy. In the year before the merger
the “Sun” co, which is the backbone of the
group, paid 15.5 p.c., and the Bennett co.
9 p.c.; each dropped their div. to 8 p.c. last
year.
The subsidiaries did not send along every
penny they earned. At Sept. 28 the credit at
p. and 1. in their combined accounts was
£31,448, but that was less than 2 p.c. on
Associated’s ord. capital. They also had div.
equalisation reserves totalling £35,000. How-
ever, the heavy slump in advertising revenue,
the increased duty and primage on news-
print, the high price of exchange and the
growth in taxation threaten to bite deeply
into the current year’s earnings. The board,
foreseeing this, has planned further econo-
mies. Meanwhile an extra Id. has been
tacked on to the selling price of the dailies.
To finance ordinary trading operations on
account of the “Guardian” the co. had gone
to its bankers and others for £148,927, and
there was £140,000 (cash) coming to Smith’s
on account of the purchase when the books
closed. Here are balance-sheet figures:—
Paid capital . . . . • ■ • • £3,577,000
Sundry creditors and overdraft .. .. ■ 148,927
Smith’s Newspapers, Ltd. .. .. 140,000
Shares in other cos. . . . . .. 3,135,930
Daily and Sunday “Guardian”.. .. 577,471
Stocks .. • • • • • • .. < 41,500
Sundry debtors . . . . .. . . 101,530
Equipment . . . . .. . . 1,564
Thus the debt exceeded the more or less
liquids by £145,897 at Sept. 28. On the
basis of the last published accounts of the
subsidiaries, but excluding the “Sun” co.’s
plant, tax, etc., reserves, more than half
the figure at which shares in other cos. now
appear was represented by that “will o’ the
wisp” goodwill, to which must be added the
amount at which the “Guardian” is capi-
talised. Thus the whole of Associated s
c-rd. capital lacks tangible backing.
The scrip has had a very lively market.
On their first appearance in Dec., 1929, the
ords. sold around par. Then, as the outlook
generally became clouded and information
about the purchase of the “Guardian” leaked
out, quotes widened, and the price fell pre-
cipitously to 3s. 3d. in Oct. It later re-
covered to ss. lid. and then eased again to
3s. 9d. The prefs. are priced around 10s. lid.,
at which figure the return is 10. S p.c. They
carry a fixed cumulative 7 p.c. and have
priority as to capital.
Queensland Insurance Co., Ltd.
Added to Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves. serves.
Sept., £ £ £ £
1920.. 131,621 124 p.c. = 62,500 69,121 198,665
Transferred from contingency
reserve, £30,000 .. .. 228,665
1921.. 106,677 124 p.c. = 62,500 44,177 272,842
1922.. 97,772 124 „ ~62,500 35,272 308,114
1923.. 100,552 124 „ „ 62,500 38,052 346,166
1924.. 102,266 124 „ „ 62,500 39,766 385,932
1925.. 104,-560 124 ~ ~62,500 42,060 427,992
1926.. 144,529 124 „ „ 62,500 82,029 510,021
1927.. 140,526 124 „ „ 62,500 78,026 588,047
1928.. 125,869 124 „ ~62,500 63,369 651,416
1929.. 102,508 124 „ ~ 62,500 40,008 691,424
1930.. 62,299 10 „ ~50,000 12,299 703,723
The sharp drop of £40,209 in last year’s
profit was due to an underwriting loss of
£17,284 —the surplus from underwriting in
the previous term was £26,924. The £62,299
netted was the least attractive result which
this prosperous Australian fire and marine
office, with world-wide connections, has exhi-
bited for over 14 years. Still it was 12.4
p.c. on paid capital compared with 20.5, 25.1,
28.1 and 28.9 p.c. back to 1926. The trend
of the figures reflects the unfavorable experi-
ence of underwriters generally of recent
years. Because of this, and of uncertainty as
to. the future, the cautious management
snipped off the 24 p.c. bonus, which had been
an annual event since 1913, thus leaving the
div. at 10 p.c.
However, the £500,000 of capital is solidly
entrenched behind £703,723 of visible, reserves ;
the lot is invested mainly in Government
and public-body securities of all the Austra-
lian State?, Maoriland, India, Canada and the
H.S.A., and on fixed deposit. Moreover,
interest and rents turned in £79,583 last
year, equal to 15.9 p.c. on capital. So, w T hen
conditions become more settled, prospects of
a restoration of the bonus, or perhaps the
scattering of other sweets, are as bright as
anything of the kind can be in these troubled
times.
The year’s underwriting experience was
one of the worst in the co.’s history, as this
next comparison shows :
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Claims. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £40,681 £28,703 £13,058 70.7 p.c. 32.1 p.c.
1900.. 75,310 44,053 20,529 58.5 „ 27.2 „
1905.. 74,118 43,129 26,020 58.2 „ 35.1 „
1910.. 124,213 60,286 47,911 48.5 „ 38.5 „
1915.. 240,849 118,126 81,098 49.0 „ 33.6 „
1920.. 440,021 169,775 180,277 38.6 „ 40.9 „
1924.. 509,200 269,970 191,929 53.0 „ 37.7 ..
1925.. 556,191 289,791 219,851 52.1 „ 39.5 „
1926.. 727,923 403,605 239,867 55.4 ~ 32.9 „
1927.. 821,768 472,646 276,963 57.5 „ 33.7 „
1928.. 882,801 532,457 299.196 60.3 „ 33.9 „
1929.. 832,418 494,588 310,906 59.4 „ 37.3 „
1930.. 774,560 485,040 306,804 62.6 „ 39.8 „
Contributing factors to the slip of £57,858
in the year’s net premiums were the general
shrinkage in values, lighter trading stocks
carried by merchants, smaller pay rolls,
which affected worker’s compensation busi-
ness, and disturbed conditions in India. Also
the fall in the price of silver clipped about
one-third off the sterling value of the Shang-
hai tael and the Hongkong dollar, thus affect-
ing returns from the co.’s business in those
quarters. Heavy fire losses in Maoriland, the
unsatisfactory nature of accident business,
due to motor-car insurance, and an unfavor-
able experience on the London marine market
lifted the loss rate to its highest level since
the nineties of last century. The spring in
the expense rate was an inevitable result of
the abrupt contraction in net premiums.
Policy-holders, however, are well protected,
and they can get prompt assurance on the
point should doubt ever assail them. Look
at these figures:
r 1929 N , 1930 N
p.c. p.c.
Government securities. . £762,901 44.0 £759,422 44.1
Municipal securities .. 107,004 6.2 107,004 6.2
Deposits, cash, sundry
debtors, etc. .. 703,416 40.6 696,965 40.4
Premises .. .. 159,683 9.2 160,224 9.3
At Sept. 30 sundry creditors, including some-
thing for contingencies, figured at £469,891.
Net tangibles were equal to 155 p.c. of the
year’s net premiums, and that is more than
is usually considered adequate. Fixed deposits
amounted to £236,000, and shares, bonds and
debentures in other cos. appeared at £224,700.
To what extent, if any, book values have
been affected by the weakness on the Stock
Exchanges is not mentioned in the report.
The market notes, amongst other things,
that £450,000 of the half-million of paid
capital represents bonus scrip, and pays
41s. for the pound shares, which have a net
tangible backing of 48s. Id. The return
at that price is 4.9 on a 10 p.c. div.
basis, or 6 p.c. if the 21 p.c. bonus is restored.
The Kauri Timber Co.
Written
Aug., Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
1919.. 71,412 Sp.c. = 46,800 11,901 221,820
Capital returned, £135,000. Co. reconstructed.
Assets written up, £300,000 of reserves capi-
talised, one fully-paid 255. share issued for
every 15s. paid in old co.
158 883
1921.. 134,001 8 p.c. = 60,000 23,382 209,’502
1922.. 87,044 8 „ „ 60,000 19,896 216,650
Contingency fund ( £11,084) taken in 227,734
1923.. 102,858 8 p.c. = 60,000 14,889 255,703
1924.. 104,569 8 ~ „ 60,000 15,822 284,450
1925.. 109,459 8 ~ „ 60,000 14,691 319,218
Special depreciation .. 27,861 291,357
1926.. 71,255 8 p.c. = 60,000 13,880 288,732
Special depreciation .. 30,431 258,301
1927.. 45,881 6 p.c. = 45,000 11,560 247,622
Special depreciation .. 10,632 236,990
1928.. 14,669 3 p.c. = 22,500 10,951 218,208
1929.. 31,634 3 „ „ 22,500 10,752 216,590
1930.. 28,939 2J „ „ 18,750 10,374 216,405
For the most part the figures over the last
half-dozen years tell tha story of acute com-
petition from foreign timbers and of price-
cutting in the trade. Last year financial
stringency and the over-built state of the
large cities aggravated the position, especi-
ally in Australia. However, the Kauri Co.
got its fair proportion of whatever business
was offering; gross profits (£84,613) were
only £2992 lighter. There was little change
in exes. (£55,596). But after allowing for
minor reserve adjustments and openly strik-
ing off £10,374 for depreciation, shown as
written off in the table, the net result
(£18,565) was barely sufficient to pay the
2J p.c. div., which made an average of 4.5
p.c. for the last five years.
Over the same period reserves were raided
for £33,889 to pay the meagre distributions,
and cuts in stock values, etc., chewed into
savings for a further £68,924, reducing them
to £216,405 at Aug. 31. And that is a mild
experience compared with others in the in-
dustry. Thanks to the board’s policy of
making liberal allowance for contingencies
during the fat years the co. has come through
a rough passage so far without having to
jettison any of its capital, or allow its share-
holders to go completely hungry.
Moreover, it is well equipped to continue
the struggle, as this next comparison of
balance-sheet figures shows ;
1922. 1926 1929 1930.
Paid capital.. £750,000 £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Liabilities . . 161,178 80,630 30,360 13,275
Freeholds . . 155,646 146,048 111,453 98,891
Leaseholds ..' 133,409 88,962 60,577 57,795
Plant, etc. . . 162,605 182,576 187,582 169,196
Stocks, etc. . . 412,997 364,333 259,303 226,303
Book debts . . 116,718 124,178 90,453 74,218
Shares . . 93,166 143,471 148,471 148,471
I n v e stments,
cash, etc. .. - 94,072 99,569 161,604 223,549
Despite adverse conditions, the more or less
liquid surplus at Aug. 31 (£510,795, includ-
ing stocks) was £29,795 stronger than at
the close of accounts in 1929. But there is
nothing in the figures from which to gather
encouragement concerning the trade itself.
The continued shrinkage in the book debts
and stock items suggests that turnover is still
declining. The money not thus required in
the business, and the allowances for deprecia-
tion, have enabled the board to build up a
fine pile of investments (loans and deben-
tures), to which £61,945 was added last year,
and to reduce the debt to a comparatively
nominal figure. Indeed, the co. is in the
fortunate position of being able to return
over ss. of each 255. paid share. Shares in
other cos. consist largely of the holding in
Vanikoro Kauri Timber, formed in 1926 to
work concessions in the Solomon Islands.
Future results will partly depend upon
the value placed on the standing timber in
the co.’s big freehold and leasehold forests.
These appeared in the books at £156,686 at.
the close of last accounts, or £78,324 less
than the figure at which they stood four years
earlier. The market then priced the scrip
at 335.; but doubtful of the earning power of
the industry buyers now offer 95., with sellers
standing off at 12s. The backing amounts
to 325. 2d. in net tangibles.
Port Swettenham Rubber
Net f Dividends x To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Amt. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1923.. 1,998 Sp.c. Nil = 4,056 5609
1924.. 2,246 8 „ Nil „ 2,120 126 5735
1925.. 5,437 8 „ 6 p.c. „ 5,570 5602
1926.. 19,854 224 „ 224 „ „ 18,890 964 6556
1927.. 7,595 8 „ 8 „ „ 7,200 395 6951
1928.. 2,945 8 „ Nil „ 3,080 6816
1929.. 4,538 8 „ 5 p.c. „ 5,955 5399
1930.. 133 4 „ Nil „ 1,540 3992
This 20-year-old Melbourne-controlled con-
cern, with plantations in the F.M.S., is in
the same stable as Bukit Kubu, but has been
less fortunate. Launched on the crest of a
rubber boom, it sold its first crop for 4s. 9d.
a pound, and paid a 5 p.c. div., followed by
another of 10 p.c. Then it had arguments
with the Courts and a cyclone. It got the
worst of both. - Hopes of worth-while profits
out of what was left of the Port Swettenham
estate were so slender that another planta-
tion, the Australasia, was bought about 70
miles away. When the outlay on develop-
ment eased the market was unkind, so the
(Continued on page 16.)


m
i
m
■ ■
l
m
:j- f
i:>;'wc*
ii
m
ig& 5
ml
r.c
?«
<ri
rr;
r
H
tU
sS'*!
p;g
m
m
rr
i rc
x .sn|;-.-.-X;:
rr riC HT
wc*'
ii
r i r "rr
r T-:.r-:r: rrri
p^Y : jpp
W^v^yvyx
|p©P
HI
“rr;
LT r
CM
mm
m
m
m
kl
N
THE BIG NEW
AUSTRALIAN FACTORY
Due to the tariffs and
to the enterprise of
Godfrey Phillips -Army
Club, Greys and De
Reszke, whichever
blend you most prefer,
now sell at 9 for 6d.
18 for Full size,
original English quality,
but made in Australia !
OF
jirmyClub
DE RESZKE
THE GREYS"
Wages remain in
Australia. Customs dues
remain in Australia.
State and Federal taxes
remain in Australia.
But the original
English quality and size
remain!
Australia now produces the
best cigarettes in the World !
ORIGINAL IMPORTED QUALITY GUARANTEED BY
GODFREY PHILLIPS (AUSTRALIA) PROPRIETARY
LIMITED
IHt
9f
GPA. lc
or
m
V' Vwv^l
mm
YS&.
.?■ }f
A ‘ A -
fefeasg&s.


Watch Your
Step f
•
These are days when a man
may lose the savings of a life-
time.
These are days when a man
may lay the foundations of a
fortune.
The thing is to know. “The
‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” has im-
mense data at its disposal and
a staff of specially trained in-
vestigators and accountants.
It will help you to save losses
and make gains.
DECEMBER NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PEIi ANNUM, 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting!
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * ¥
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
Australian Mining Trust, Ltd., offers the oppor-
tunity of joining in an unusual mining venture
which, if successful, will add millions each year to
Australia’s wealth. The profits to be won are so
exceptionally great that a small investment, say, £5,
may return a substantial fortune. The facts of the
undertaking will interest you. Send for them to-day.
Australian Mining Trust, Ltd., 62 Margaret Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
The present need for economy emphasises the
extreme value of Pioneer Wood Pipe as a conduit for
any liquid-carrying purpose. The initial cost of
Pioneer Wood Pipe is considerably less than metal
pipe, and handling, laying and transport charges
are on a correspondingly low basis. It is absolutely
non-corrosive, and is recognised as a pipe of the
highest efficiency. Full particulars free on request.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay
Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.;
and at Footseray, Victoria.— Advt.
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. i
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Win. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Banir offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
IDEAS FOR YOUR WILL
THE MAIN POINTS ARE—
1. —To appoint a permanent and reliable Executor.
2. —To provide for your wife and family—
(a) Income to your wife; (b) Capital to your children.
3. —To give general instructions to your Executor.
Write or call for our Booklet “The Making of a Will.”
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED,
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Owing to a typographical error in the Bank’s advertisement as published
on 3rd instant (page 64), the ‘‘total assets” as on 30/9/’3O were
shown as £69,228,378 instead of £89,228,378.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard oi Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Kusa
Detonators
Cartridges
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
ords. had a long dry spell until the Stevenson
scneme pushed prices beyond their economic
limit.
What has happened during the last eight
years the next table makes clear:—
Rubber Rubber
June Yield Av. Price June. Yield. Av. Price
Realised. 30, lb. Realised.
1922.. 177,161 7.5 d. 1927.. 269,924 17.8 d.
1924.. 141,311 12.15 d. 1928.. 214,077 14.2 d.
1925.. 149,656 18.67 d. 1929.. 385,666 8.92 d.
1926.. 219,032 30.5 d. 1930.. 340,300 6.81 d.
Last year s all-in cost was 6.87 d. per pound
?>° th ? n r , e n was a los ? of £ B5 on production.’
Hut ±2lB was received in interest, leaving
a net profit of £133; hence the pantry was
raided for £1407 to give the prefs. half a
meal. For the current term the managers
figure a crop of 405,0001 b., and put the all-in
cost at 5.41 d. But the London price for
best plantation rubber had wilted to 3.9 d in
Oct., and was around last week-end;
obviously the market will need to strengthen
if another ration for the prefs. is to be
earned.
And it is difficult to find much that is
encouraging in the outlook. There has been
a marked increase in production following
the collapse of the Stevenson scheme, while
dulness in the motor-trade has slackened con-
sumption. Dutch interests have failed to
agree to a British plan to restrict output,
because native producers could not be
brought into the scheme. Until a way can
be found to include the native, who was
largely responsible for the wreck of the
Stevenson plan, it looks as if the only restric-
tion will be the forced one of allowing some
of the plantations to become jungle again.
The native’s costs are next to nothing, and
the lower the price the harder he taps, re-
gardless of the exhaustion of the trees. One
way to curb him would be through Govern-
ment control, but since more than one
Government is concerned agreement upon a
satisfactory plan may prove to be a stum-
bling block.
. Tort Swettenham’s paid capital is £96,000
in 38,500 8 p.c. cum. par. prefs. and 57,500
ords. At June 30 reserves were £3992. Plan-
tations figured at £90,790, and the factory
at £5850. Liquids, including stocks, totalled
£4120, and there was £777 coming to credi-
tors. The market for the scrip is not active.
Commonwealth 6 p.c. Loan
With only a five-week run, which is a very
short one considering the acuteness of the
financial position generally and the disturb-
ing influence of the Left Wing in politics, the
response to the Commonwealth’s 6 p.c. cash
and conversion issue has been very heartening
indeed, especially in Victoria. Up till noon
on Saturday last the amount subscribed to
the issue was £20,344,880, of which £9,691,510
represented conversions and £10,643,370 cash,
the latter put up by 42,861 investors. Of
the total Victorian subscriptions account fol-
ds p.c. (approximately half the number of
applicants belong to that State also) ; N. S.
Wales lagged behind with 28 p.c. Only about
one-third of the holders of the old loan had
converted; the average holding unconverted
was between £4OO and £5OO. This contrasts
sharply with the average cash subscription,
which was only £250. A reassuring feature
was that, up to the end of last week, only
£410,000 of the maturing paper had been
cashed in response to the Government’s
prompt offer to redeem the old bonds.
Wlien the “Wild Cat” went to press the
result of Monday’s conversions, of last
Friday’s “shopping drike” in Sydney and of
late subscriptions from country centres was
not known. Of course there is no reason
why the closing date of the loan should not
be extended if the issue is not fully sub-
scribed. The splendid example of Victoria
should help greatly to harden confidence,
which is the most immediate necessity for
the restoration of more stable conditions,
and is of the very essence of true credit.
There is no easy way out of our difficulties ;
we shall pull through only by the exercise
of sane optimism, patience, hard work and
thrift, which means a certain amount of
sacrifice all round. Restored confidence
means that contracts of all kinds, including
those for employment, would be more freely
entered into.
German Cos. After the Inflation
(1) When the old German mark currency
was displaced, after the great inflation, did
any first-class leading public cos. adjust
their paid-up capital? (2) In what cur-
rency were subsequent divs. paid? (3) In
the event of Australia only partially inflating
her note issue, would our leading investment
stocks adjust their paid-up capital and divs.
to meet altered conditions? —472.
(1) and (2) Dr. Busing, the Consul-General
for Germany, is good enough to explain that
“after the stabilisation of the German cur-
rency at the end of 1923, a special Act
was passed that all the German companies
had to change over to the new currency—
that is, to the gold standard —and produce
balance-sheets accordingly. Naturally it took
some time before this was accomplished, but
it was performed in most cases during 1924.
The procedure was generally that the shares
were written down ; to what degree depended
on the situation of the particular company.
Dividends were paid in the new currency as
soon as the capital had been adjusted and
the new balance-sheet produced. No more
dividends were paid in paper marks. In cases
where it took a little longer time to prepare
the balance-sheet in the new currency, divi-
dend payments were simply deferred.”
(3) Presumably, whether the inflation was
great or little, Australian cos. would have to
readjust their capital accounts and dividends;
Dr. Busing obligingly puts at The Bulle-
tin’s disposal his single copy of a pamphlet
showing what happened to all the cos. listed
on the Berlin Stock Exchange under the
law of 1923. Curiously enough the first on
the list is the German-Australian Shipping
Co. In 1911-12-13 this paid divs. of 11, 14
and 14 p.c. After the inflation, capital was
written down 10 to 3. Shipping cos.’ capital
was, however, mostly written down much
more than that—generally from 5 to 1 up
to 25 to 1. The well-known N.D.L. was
written down 25 to 1. Railroad and tram-
way capitals suffered much less: in a few
cases they did not suffer at all. Bank capi-
tals suffered badly; the average of 11 large
institutions was 45 to 1. Generally speaking,
the greater t.he bank the smaller the reduc-
tion of capital per cent. The Deutsche Bank
(pre-war capital, 250 millions marks) was
reduced 10 to 1; so was the Darmstadter.
Many small banks (2 to 8 million marks)
were cut down 50 or 100 to 1; some did not
reconstruct, apparently. Brewery cos. had a
varied experience—100 to 3 down to 1 to 1—
and so had general industrials. But it does not
seem possible to draw definite conclusions
from the figures in the industrial group.
Cos. in the same line varied enormously, but
reductions of 40 to 1 were common and 100
to 1 not very rare.
The Broken Hill Mines
The Broken Hill cos. waited until W. S.
Robinson arrived from London to decide
what they could offer the miners, whose
extended agreement runs out at the end of
the year. Nothing within the range of pos-
sibility could be submitted by one or two of
the cos.; but North, South and Zinc Cor-
poration think they can pull through on a
basic wage of 155., adjusted quarterly on
the cost of living; an eight-hour day shift
(8 to 4), a afternoon shift(between 4
and midnight) and a seven-hour night shift
(between midnight and eight) ; a bonus of
(id. a shift to be paid for every fl per ton
rise in the price of lead above £2O. Sulphide
Corp. may or may not decide that it can
carry on on this basis.
No doubt a majority of the miners would
accept the terms if the matter were left
entirely to them; but after what some of
the spokesmen promised at the last election
it will be difficult for these to advocate
acceptance without losing face, and that may
cause trouble. Most of them, however, real-
ise that there probably isn’t a single co. at
Broken Hill which wouldn’t welcome a com-
plete stoppage. They can’t make much
money by carrying on at present; and they
would help the metal markets, especially the
market for lead, by standing off for a while.
Also some of the largest holders are inter-
ested in foreign mines, more cheaply worked
than Broken Hill, and it would suit them
very well to give the market the lift which
a stoppage of supplies from Broken Hill
would certainly produce.
In the interests of Australia, however, it
is most desirable that work shall be con-
tinued and the output maintained at the
highest possible point. The cos.’s offer, so
far as immediate conditions are concerned,
is quite as liberal as most Broken Hill people
expected; but some larger rewards might be
held out for the future. It is not proposed
to give any bonus until lead passes £2O a
ton. At present it is worth only £l5 25.. 6d.
a ton; and the gap is so large that a bonus
starting at £2O will not be much of an attrac-
tion. The starting-point for bonuses (3d.)
should be not above £lB, and there should
be a sliding scale, the addition to pay mov-
ing up to Is. per £1 over £22 per ton. This
is a time when substantial sacrifices are
demanded ; but the miners can’t reasonably be
asked for them if substantial rewards are
not available in prosperous times.
Who Will Get the Gold Bonus?
London criticisms of the Australian gold
bonus are not enthusiastic. The Bulletin
would not expect them to be.
One writer says that an increase in the
output of gold would add to the burden of
interest on the British national debt. It
wouldn’t; but it would make the interest
worth less to the holders of funded stock.
Also it would knock something off the value
of Britain’s foreign investments. The more
gold that is produced the cheaper it becomes
and the more we are willing to give for
commodities; in other w r ords, the dearer com-
modities become. The dearer commodities
are—wool, wheat, metals, meat, butter, etc. —
the less of them we have to send to pay our
overseas interest or to pay off overseas
principal debt, assuming that we shall ever
pay off principal debt. This, incidentally, is
one of the arguments in favor of a gold
bonus. It will help us indirectly as well
as directly.
Another London criticism is that, on past
experience, labor will get all the bonus.
Quite, likely it will —all or nearly all. If
Britain thinks that we are going to pay a
bonus for the purpose of providing English
or other cos. with dividends, it is very
much mistaken. Labor will get all or nearly
all the bonus because the idea is that the
money will enable ore bodies to be worked
w r hich are too poor to be worked without it.
That, indeed, is the sole justification for
paying it.
The investor will no doubt get profit out
of what there was no profit in before ; but
that will be because wages will be paid out
of bonus which previously had to come out
of capital, earnings at the old price of gold
being insufficient to pay the entire bill.
Lancefield is named as one of the first
old mines in the West that will be re-worked
as a result of the gold bonus. Hoover
and others floated it in the early part
of the present century. After two fruitless
reconstructions a Kalgoorlie syndicate took
bhe show in hand, and made money for a
while, but an unsympathetic Arbitration
Court ultimately froze them out also. The
proper tv has been more or less idle since.
* * * *
. Associated Northern (W.A.) is tipped to
either wind up or reconstruct before the
end of the year. In the event of liquidation
o are ex P ecte d to aggregate between 2s.
and 3s. a share. Reconstruction will mean
a writing down of capital, and probably the
formation of an investment trust. This,
many consider, would strengthen the co.'s
positio" and greatly enhance its prospects.
* * * *
Soutn Ivalgurli (W.A.) has issued another
estimate of ore reserves in the South block.
This shows sufficient gold-bearing rock to
keep the mill going for years yet. Apart
from what is visible in this pronerty the co.
has substantial reserves exposed in the
Croesus Proprietary lease, on which it has
a 10 years’ tribute from the North Kalgurli
Co.
* * * Sf
The backers of North Kalgurli (W.A.) are
bucked about a 500-ton crushing which
yielded approximately an ounce per ton. This
is certainly encouraging, for treatment plants
speak more convincingly than assays. Since
good values over a fair width are being met
in the bottom workings the Nov. yield is
declared to be something more than a flash
in the pan.
* * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
What would he the effect of inflation on
capital held in thb form of (1) North Broken
Bill shares, (2) Goldsbrough, Mort, Ltd.,
(3) Carlton Brewery, (4) New Zealand
Govet'nment bonds, (5) Fixed deposits in
Commercial Bank? —ss3.
(1) The co. sells most of its produce over-
seas. It would pay its Australian outgoings
in inflated currency and get paid in sterling.
Whether there would be any profit in that
for the co. would depend on whether wages,
etc., kept pace with the rise in the currency.
As an investor it would probably suffer to
some extent. But as an operator it shouldn’t;
it might even gain at the expense of labor.
(2) This has lent out much money; and
investors on mortgage, fixed deposit, Govern-
ment stocks, debentures and pref. shares
would be liable to be hit hard. (3) If it
has leased hotels, etc., at a *fixed rent, it
■would suffer. As a manufacturer, it would
probably not suffer much. (4) If the infla-
tion did not extend to M.L., Dominion Gov-
ernment bonds would not suffer. (5) If the
inflation was rapid the loss might be severe.
You lodged £5OO and you would be paid
back £5OO, though now £5OO might be worth
only what £3OO was when you made the
deposit. Also you would suffer because the
£5 p.c. received by way of interest would
not be worth £5 sterling.
I’m all bothered up about this gold stan-
dard. What is it at all?-— 409.
When you measure cloth you use a yard
stick. When the merchant quotes so much
a yard, you know what he means; a yard is
a thing agreed upon. When the merchant
says it is ss. a yard, you also know what
he moans; a shilling is another thing agreed
upon. Now, the basis of that shilling is the
£ sterling, a coin containing a certain fixed
quantity of gold. That coin is the standard.
If a man in Sydney quotes you 255. for
5 yards and one in Melbourne 265. for 5
yards, you can compare the two, because
of the fixed gold standard. Next, practically
all countries of the world have adopted the
gold standard. So we know that the gold
sovereign or £ sterling is worth 4.8665 U.S.
dollars, or 124.21 French francs, or 34.585
Austrian schillings. You can therefore com-
pare quotations for foods whether expressed
in pounds sterling, dollars, francs or any’
other money. That is the cold standard.
Upon its holding of gold a nation issues
notes or paper money for its domestic use.
When the issue for any reason becomes
excessive, it gets cheap; that is to say, you
get more notes for a given quantity of gold.
This is inflation.
What return does the C.B.R. show on
original paid capital, allowing that 5 p.c.
is being earned on capital returned? — 764 a,
Cash-paid capital, £2,425,000' present div. :
£731,250 = 30.1 p.c. on cash-paid capital
Interest at 5 p.c. on £3,900,000 capital re-
turned, £195,000 = 8 p.c. on £2,425,000 cash-
paid capital. So the answer is 30.1 p.c. +
8 p.c. = 38.1 p.c.
(1) Any restrictions placed on persons
wishing to go to New Guinea to prospect
for gold? (2) Any of the N.G. gold-mining
cos.’ offices in Sydney? —sB7.
(1) You must get a permit to enter the
Territory, which will only take you as far
as Rabaul. There you will have to get a
special permit for the goldfields. Apply to any
Collector of Customs in Australian capital
cities for forms and details. Before a gold-
fields permit is issued, applicant must satisfy
the Administration that he has sufficient
financial resources, and must pass a medical
examination, in addition to depositing £5O as
a guarantee and undergoing anti-typhoid
inoculation. (2) Bulolo Gold Dredging. Win-
gello House, Sydney; New Guinea Goldfields,
67 York-street, Sydney; New Guinea Gold
and Exploration, 109 Pitt-street, Sydney.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
F.C.D.: Don’t think much of it just now.
....No. 88: It is highly speculative, and you’ve got
a large chance of losing. We don’t know "of a market.
... . J.M.: Purely a gamble ; and no large prizes likely
if you win....0.L.: Apply Under-Sec. Mines Depart-
ment, Sydney... .A. W.W.: You can do much better.
....John D.: Not quoted on any Exchange. The
secretary might possibly find a buyer for y0u....
Barrier South: (a) Yes. (b) Shares quoted ir
Adelaide last week at b. Is. 3d., s. Is. 4d. (c) Any
Sydney stoekbroking firm.


KEEPING THEIR MINDS OCCUPIED.
“Though Mr. Lang followed it up with such a dramatic gesture, instantly adjourning the House, it now transpires the interview between the Premier and the
Governor was of the most friendly character. There is nothing in the shape of either a personal or a political deadlock. .
MR. LANG: “ ’Sail right, your Excellency, I’m not going to hurt you. But you better jump about a bit—we gotter keep these beggars entertamed."
ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?
Public Stocks as Legal Tender
Dear Bulletin, —Australia is in urgent
need of more currency, and yet it has more
than enough currency if only the darned
thing was current. There is no need to
' start any wholesale manufacture of false
money—l mean money with a lie printed
on the face of it to the effect that it is
redeemable in gold on presentation when
everybody knows that it isn’t so redeemable
on presentation or on anything > else.
In the circumstances it might be a good
idea to turn a large mass of the banks’
holding of Government securities into cur-
rency. They have plenty—more than 11
times as much as their holding of coin, and
over twice their holding of notes. Securities
may be somewhat difficult to handle, but a
£lOOO bond, payable to a definite person,
might ■ be subdivided at short notice into
£lO or £5 bonds payable to bearer and handy
for circulation purposes.
If the Government securities in the posses-
sion .of the banks are insufficient, when
turned into currency, to meet the demand,
there are plenty more on the market, and
without making any special issue for the
purpose. Why inflate a market which is
inflated to bursting point already ?
I suppose it would be difficult to pay
interest to very small and temporary bond-
holders, a good many of whom would lose
their interest in the confusion, whereby the
Government would profit. But they would
have no interest to lose if the Government
took to the common or Bolshevik species of
inflation, for notes pay no dividend.
My suggestion is that Government securi-
ties, ilsued in Australia and bearing interest
at 5J per cent, or over, should be legal
tender at par for sums of £5 and upwards, so
far as they would fit into the case. The
person who pays should have the benefit
of the option, and if he wanted to give £3O
in bonds in settlement of a liability of
£29 19s. he should be at liberty to do so.
This arrangement might give some profit
to present holders. of high-interest-bearing
securities by forcing the price up to par,
but perhaps they deserve the profit. What
would happen to prices when the public
demand was fully satisfied I don’t know, but
it couldn’t be anything so horrible as hap-
pened to countries which went in for the
compulsory sale of indefinite heaps of paper
which bore no interest whatsoever and wasn't
redeemable at any date at all. —Yours, J.E.
The Dried-fruits Producer
Dear Bulletin, —I am an S.A. dried-fruits
grower, compelled by law to export or other-
wise withhold from the Commonwealth
market 90 per cent, of my production.
Export, owing to high costs of production
(arbitration awards, tariffs, etc.), leaves me
at a loss of many pounds per ton. Compul-
sory export at a foreseen and inescapable
loss is the harshest cruelty ever enacted. I
suggest the Commonwealth Government,
which compels me to make this loss,
should buy my dried fruits at a price
returning me at least the production costs,
pay me in Australian notes, and ship the
fruit to London, thereby getting portion of
the London money it so sorely needs. To
procure the funds necessary for these pur-
chases, notes should be issued, limited strictly
to what is necessary to buy primary pro-
duce at cost of production.
There are only two honorable alternatives
—either abolish the restrictions of the Arbi-
tration Court and revise the tariff, or else
continue both with the guarantee that the
produce of the man on the land shall be
purchased at cost from the grower. The
unemployed could be absorbed to a large
extent by a decree that a definite numbei
of employees per acre must be paid the
award rates before the producer could look
to the Government to purchase his produce
at cost. Far better this than see the Gov-
ernment pay the dole for no work at all.
So long as the man on the land is the only
one who has to make the loss, entailed by
Government enactments, nothing wall be
done; but let the Government be its own
exporter, and very soon measures would be
introduced to lessen production costs. —Yours
etc., Fruitgrower.
The Position of the Pastoralist
Dear Bulletin, —I think it is safe to say
that 90 per cent, of farmers and graziers are
dependent on banks or other financial insti-
tutions for their very bread. Things cannot
go on as they are for many more months.
Wool is averaging about 7.8 d. per pound,
which is about ss. 6d. per sheep; store sheep
are unsaleable and fats are worth very little
and it costs about 12s. to run a sheep for a
year. Is the country going to stand by and
see its main source of revenue ruined for
the sake of bolstered-up parasites?
Some say “Make your country produce
more.” How t can we under existing condi-
tions? We only have control over about |rth
of our costs ; the rest goes in interest, freight,
insurance, station supplies, wmges, shearing,
rates and taxes, etc. The position is that we
are doing all right if wm weren’t forced to
carry the rest of the community.
We can all see that the banks and financial
institutions cannot close on us, as they wrnuld
depreciate their security by doing so; but
we can also see that if things keep going as
they are, we will be too deeply in debt when
things do improve to ever get out. Are we
just going to carry on till then, working 12
hours a day, to lose our properties when it
is all over? It w r ill, of course, be some con-
solation for us to know that Mr. Spoonfed
in Sydney is manufacturing spots for rocking-
horses at about three times world parity.
Which, of course, he won’t be able to do
unless the woolgrower and wheat-farmer can
help him.
A reasonable tariff is justifiable on articles
that can be produced here at a reasonable
price- but the sooner politicians and other?
stop using the tariff' to bolster up wages, the
cost of production and the cost of living,
the sooner will w r e get out of the mess we
are in and the sooner will Australia start on
an era of prosperity.—Yours, James S.
Chisholm.
Inflated Land Values and Wages
Dear Bulletin,— While most commodities
have an average money value, they rise and
fall above and below that point according to
supply and demand. Dave knows nothing
about averages (except cricket ones), but
he sees that Dan, besides making wages for
his work, gets a return of 20 per cent, on his
capital; so he reckons that if he gives Dan
double the price for the farm that Dan gave
for it, he (Dave) will still get wages and
10 per cent, on his capital, which is good
interest. He forgets that, while Dan -was
doing so well when wheat was high, it must
sometimes go below average, and that to
get 10 per cent, on his capital always, he
must have 20 per cent, in the good times to
balance the 0 per cent, in the bad. When the
bad times come and he gets his 0 per cent.
Dave squeals, and tells Choom that, as he
is only making bare wages himself and noth-
ing whatsoever on his capital, he is losing
money on growing the wheat, and will have
to reduce Choom’s wages. But Choom
noticed that none of them passed him an
extra few quid when wheat -went up, so
he can’t see why he should pass Dave a few
when wheat goes down. And so he revolts
and votes for Lang and loans. —Yours, Kort.
We Can Cut Out More Imports
Dear Bulletin, —Wouldn’t it be a good
thing if we Australians could pretend—till
the clouds roll by, at any rate —that so far
as the satisfaction of our material needs is
concerned the rest of the world has ceased
to exist? We can produce, and are pro-
ducing, far more food and far more cloth-
ing material than we need. Judging by the
number of buildings that wear a “To Let'’
sign in most towns of the continent, we don’t
lack for roof-shelter from a not very rigorous
climate. There isn’t a single essential item
among the things we have been over-import-
ing for so many years that we can’t produce
ourselves —indeed it wmuld be hard to name a
luxury of civilisation that we couldn’t im-
provise or parallel if, like Father O’Flynu,
we had the call.
Why not give it a buck ? We are organised
to do a big export trade. Let that continue,
to defray our foreign liabilities. Freight will
cost us more, in the absence of back-lading,
and for that reason the chaps who grow the
wool and the wheat and the other farm stuff
will have to be taken care of by the rest of
the community. With a lot more w r ork to
do at home w T e ought to be able to mop up
our unemployed, and w T ith everybody working
and earning wages it shouldn’t be difficult to
pay Messrs. Wheatsheaf, Woolbales and But-
terfat a price for the’part of their product
which is sold here sufficient to tide them
over a terribly hard year.
It is said that there are 200,000 Austra-
lians out of -work just now. Supposing they
averaged f A a ; week when in employment, we
are £40,000,000 a year below our usual earn-
ing capacity as a community, even if it is
only a matter of taking in each other’s wash-
ing. As to what we shall use for money, I
leave that to the bankers and economists —
gentlemen who have all sorts of plans for
creating currency to run a war and who
shouldn’t be bankrupt of resources when it.
comes to a matter of curing poverty. —lours
etc., Dubbo.
Proposed Sales Tax on Flour
Dear Bulletin, —You say a tax of £7 4s.
per ton would mean an increase of only Id.
per 21b. loaf of bread. That would
work out at 1728 21b. loaves from one
ton of flour (20001 b.). It can’t be
done. At the Vic. Commission in 1929
to inquire into bread prices, the yield per
ton of flour was generally quoted at 1661
21b. loaves; and between 1330 and 1340 is
the Sydney average, though claims of up to
1400 loaves are made. Even at tins mst
figure an increase of approximately l|d. per
loaf would be necessary to offset an increase
of £7 4s. in flour. On an increase of only
Id. a baker with a turnover of 12,000 21b.
loaves per week would lose £l2 10s. per week,
or £650 per year, which seems an undue
contribution from a small trader. Yours
faithfully, P. J. M.
Auxiliary Roads
Dear Bulletin, —May I suggest that
tracks be opened up parallel to main roads
in the country to keep traffic off the metalled
road in dry weather? These tracks would
provide auxiliary roads at the cost of clear-
ing a lane and removing obstacles, such as
stumps, trees, boulders, etc. Culverts only
need to be widened and sloped, or the track
led round the lowest end and back to con-
tinue on in a straight line. Where such
tracks now exist the metalled, road keeps in
splendid repair for years, as it is only used
in wet weather. The serious adoption ot
this idea where no engineering difficulties
(such as steep hills, etc.) exist would save
a great deal of money now spent on upkeep.
-- Yours etc., R. W. B. W bight.
A Council of National Safety
Dear Bulletin, —Our urgent need is to
sink all parties and get together the best
brains in the Commonwealth and try to find
remedies. If by a miracle we could sweep
away all these politicians who have, let us
down so badly, yet are still legislating for
us, we might do something to stop, the rot.
Let all share alike according to tlieir means,
not omitting Government servants, who
have been swamping the departments. I
have not heard of any rationing of Custom
House officers; yet the returns show a re-
duction so big that it seems impossible that
the staff can be even moderately busy.
It should be brought home to every Aus-
tralian that we cannot afford 661 men, not
counting civil servants, to manage 6} : mil-
lions of people, more especially when we see
how they manage.—-Yours, Alfred Baker.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's (com. Saturday) .... “Turned Up"’
Criterion “Eliza Comes to Stay”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “The House that Jack Built”
Tivoli “Central 928”
State Movies and Talkies
*
The Melbourne Office Flapper writes
Well, I have been to a show of modern
paintings. It was perpetrated by Mr. Adrian
Lawlor and it was at the Little Gallery.
Dr. Dane opened it. People who open
art shows are always expected to say some-
thing profound. Dr. Dane said that a revolu-
tion is always welcome provided it is a
Revolution of the Right Kind; which I
thought was very profound indeed. Then
he told us that in order to get the definite
new experience which Mr. Lawlor’s paint-
ings were waiting to give us we must look
at them with open eyes ; and I thought that
was very sound advice, too, though I was
with a gentleman and he said for himself
and without Prejudice and not desiring to
be nasty he would prefer to look at them
with his eyes closed. But he is an Art
Critic like Mr. Streeton and it seems Mr.
Lawlor’s paintings simply make art critics
wild.
Well, I took Dr. Dane’s advice and looked
at the paintings with my eyes open and for
the life of me I couldn’t see what all the
fuss is about. I mean, I know nothing about
art, of course, but I know what I like and
I like Mr. Lawlor’s paintings. I think they
are plum pud. I mean, Mr. McCubbin and
Mr. Blarney Young and Mr. Harold Her-
bert and Mr. Streeton and Mr. Max Oil-
drum and Mr. Lambert and Mr. Justus
Jorgensen and Mr. Charles Weevil and all
those famous men may be very great artists.
But what do they paint? Gumtrees, houses,
cows, nudes, oranges and lemons, politicians
and things like that.
So, you will say, does Mr. Lawlor but the
difference is that the cows and politicians
those other artists paint look like cows and
politicians—at least, some critics say they
do.
And what is the good of that?
I mean, if you want to know what a
cow of a politician looks like you can go
NUDE MODEL (sotto voce ): “How much
longer have I got to remain in dynamic-
rhythmic harmony with those blasted
trees?”
up to the top of Collins-street and look at
one for yourself.
But it is quite different with Mr. Lawlor.
I mean, take one of Mr. Lawlor’s nudes —
take her as an argument, I mean. Does she
look like a nude woman?
She does not!
She looks like a nude woman, boiled.
Well, hands up who has seen a boiled
woman, dressed or nude! I thought so, very
few. Well, then, Mr. Lawlor has definitely
given us a new experience, just as Dr. Dane
said he would.
And then, take Mr. Lawlor’s trees. This
one in No. 3 will do. It’s no assistance if
you’re taking a course in forestry, a.s Mr.
Streeton’s trees would be. You can’t tell
whether it’s a grey box or a yellow box or
a blue-gum or an oak, can you? But you
can see quite definitely it’s a tree. Yes?
Well, you’re wrong. It’s a snake tempting
Eve.
Well, I mean to say, if you look at it like
that there is no end to the new experiences
modern art can give. I mean, few of us
have been to the morgue, but you don’t need
to after seeing No. 6, “Shore with a Crayon” •
No. 20. “Threatened with Intelligence”; and
No. 38, “Jock Prater —Bloody but Un-
bowed.” I mean, nothing could be more
dead.
Well, I tried to make the Art Critic see
my point of view, but he simply wouldn’t
listen, and kept muttering, “Susanne —
second-rate Susanne!” And I said, well if
you’d sooner be with Susanne go to her, I
don’t mind. And he said, “My dear child,
I didn’t say Susanne—l said Cezanne—but
you wouldn’t understand!” And when he
calls me his dear child I know it’s time he
had some tea, so we said good-bye to Mr.
Lawlor’s show.
Well. I learnt afterwards that Mr. Law-
lor only thought of becoming a modern
painter 28 months ago, so I thought, why
shouldn’t I have a try? So I’m sending
along some works for the Sundry Shows
page if the Editor doesn’t mind.
H- * *
Melbourne Tivoli decked itself with smiles
for the return from London of the elongated
Adelaidean Athol Tier last week. A most
original comedian, he is one of the few
cminentissimos of vaudeville whom other
comedians have failed to copy. For one
thing, his skeleton is fitted with universal
joints and is an outsize. In addition, the
fellow is a natural buffoon. Peggy Ross,
his spouse, still stands on her toes to take
a top note, and beyond that sings nicely
and knows how to get the crowd. Sadie
Gale, the Tivoli useful, continues to demon-
strate her versatility. The spry lady has
the faculty of making any part appear as
if it had been specially written for her.
Mona Barlee contributes the necessary aris-
tocratic flavor to a bill on which Fred Bluett
and Joe Lawman appear. Millie Engler
also walks on. Cyril Scott is a new sing-
ing turn of a self-conscious sort. Nellie
Barnes has good looks to recommend her
and the Fallow twins, simultaneous dancers,
are in a class on their own. Mo is Mo.
Colin Crane, Byrl Walkley, Hugh Steyne, and
Robert Roberts figure in a Japanese sketch
placed amidst Javanese scenery. Lest the
above appears to be too glowing, let it be
said that the show is an average Tivoli
average, but the present Tiv. average is high.
* * ¥
Says a foreword to the programme of the
latest production of the Cairns Memorial
Dramatic Society, “We are only human.”
Well, there is no need for the C.M.D.S. to
on that account. The Bulletin
has for years been looking for actors who art-
human; In fact, a scarcity of the animal
ir. Melbourne itself of late drove it out
to the Cairns Memorial Hall one night
last week, although not with a very expectant
heart. Well, it stumbled on a dashed good
show. Also, it learnt to its astonishment
that it was the 34th performance of
the C.M.D.S. in under 12 months. More-
over, it found the actors a very human
lot who played that fairly human piece
“The Truth About Blayds” (A. A.
Milne) in a very human way. The C.M.D.S.
didn’t lack courage in tackling a play which
the Vanbrugh-Boucicaults had previously
done in Melbourne about as well as one
imagined it could be done, but they carried
it off with considerable aplomb. Lewis
Tegart, as Oliver Blayds, the octogenarian
poet who filched a deceased and better poet’s
work, was a convincing mass of physical
decay inhabited by a bad conscience and a
too sensitive mind. As Isobel Blayds, Mar-
jorie Jones combined sincerity of action with
an artificial speaking style. William Hunt,
Wallace Robertson, Jean White, Dorothy
Edwards and Leonard McKean gave admir-
able support. “The Family Upstairs” is the
society’s next mark for the New Year.
* >1- *
Premier Hogan having cast himself for the
part of fairy godmother to the legitimate
theatre in Melbourne by remitting portion of
his amusement tax, all the Firm’s houses will
shortly be going at full blast. “The House
that Jack Built” will open for business
at the Royal on the 20th and “Uncle Tom's
Cabin” will be in residence at the King’s as
from Boxing Day. St. John Ervine’s comedy
“The First Mrs. Fraser” will commence at
the Comedy on the same date. Ethel Morri-
son, a lady with a trick of turning a walking-
on part into a star role, will lead in the
character of Janet Fraser, which Marie
Tempest made her own in London recently.
* * *
Anybody, almost, can invent a melody.
Fitting an accompaniment to it i's a much
more difficult job. The writing of a quartet
or quintet is a task for a musician who is
also a mathematician. Frank Hutchens, in
his recital at the Sydney Con. Hall the other
night, presented a five-part composition of his
own, in which he, at the piano, led a con-
versation with Cyril Monk (first fiddle), Bob
Miller (second fiddle), Florence Forsliaw
(viola) and Gladstone Bell (’celloV It was
an interesting confab in which every voice
got a fair hearing, and the debate ended
amicably. Contrapuntally, the workmanship
was neat, and the themes made an effective
sequence. Another feature of the recital was
a pleasant quartet performance of Alfred
Hill’s arrangement of some Gaelic songs.
if- H- V-
The bright comedy co. at Sydney Criterion
opened up a musty old package of bromide
on Saturday—“ Eliza Comes to Stay, _ a
comedy in three acts built on the principle
that if you tickle an audience s funnybone
it will forgive you for telling it it is a mass
of ass. Charles Garvice or somebody paved
the way for its kind when he explained his
success: “I take care to let
my readers know beforehand
what is coming, and I never
disappoint them.”
The surprising thing about
“Eliza” 'is that there is no
surprise. When Copelin is
making elaborate nursery
arrangements for the recep-
tion of the girl bequeathed to
him by a friend who had
saved his life, every lady in
the audience worth her or his
salt says in an auditorium
whisper, “She won’t be a child
at all. She won’t be pretty.”
And, of course, she is neither.
She is a grown girl and
frumpy. “But it’s only her
clothes of course my dear
you see she’ll take them off
I mean she’ll change them and
he’ll fall for her charms see if
he doesn’t.” And so indeed
it all comes to pass.
It is so complete in its way
that it needs no alteration to
be a burlesque of itself. Yet
it has never failed to draw
money, and its chances of
continuing this company’s successes look
rosy. Happily, the co. is so good
that the play doesn’t matter much. Brad-
ley gives another of his extremely clever
performances. He has a knack of getting
right inside a part and yet remaining himself
which puts him in a class of his own in
Australian theatrics. Every part he gets
on speaking terms with is a bit better for-
having known him. Agnes Doyle, who looks
a mere kid, is improving fast in the company
she’s keeping, and further good work by
Copelin and Harvey Adams makes the show
worth inspecting in Spite of All.
In any case those who do not think good
acting sufficient entertainment in itself* will
possibly find something to their liking in
the • one-act curtain-raiser “In Port,”
wherein Bradley, as a Judge, meets over the
port the man he had sentenced ten years
before and who has called with a revolver
determined to square the account. The piece
has both the surprise element and suspense,
the latter tensely and increasingly sustained.
It demands brilliant acting, and gets- that
from Bradley. A whole bill of the same
sort of goods might be too much to hope
for in times when experimenting has gone
out of the legit., but the Firm might show
a profit by trying the scheme, especially
with this company.
“Dear Doctor,” by Dorothy Tobin, staged
by amateurs at Sydney Savoy last
week, is a pleasing trifle with a plot
sufficiently tangled to keep the audi-
ence guessing. The story concerns the
love of two medical brothers, Neville
and Philip Newling, for two sisters,
Sheila and Len Charmian. Phil is struck
on Sheila, but when Len’s devoted nursing
saves him he transfers his affection to her.
Sheila then links up the other brother. The
story is further complicated by a neurotic
patient known as the Jade Lady on account
Australian Navy defending Melbourne
during Cup week —Still Life.
of her habit of showering upon her medical
advisers priceless gifts of jade. As Sheila,
Naomi Waters was well costumed and
attractive; Sheelagh Ross upheld the role of
Len commendably, and Clarence Murphy was
acceptable except for a few minor lapses.
# * *
Come in, O ye moralists, and chew this
juicy bone! Seven or eight months ago,
when things in Sydney were fairly normal,
the legit, was at its poorest. Then came
General de Presh, and the legit, stayed poor.
Moreover, the pubs slumped. They even
sacked barmaids. The other before-six this
Showman tried to get a drink in a Quay
pub and failed dismally. Same night he
looked in on two of Sydney’s legit, shows,
and both w T ere doing great business. This
writer would be the last to point a moral.
One of the crowded shows was the Opera
House, where an ordinary bunch of vaude-
villains are still doing well. They changed
programme on Saturday, and the offering is
much the same as ever—light, breezy and
engaging. J.C.W. shut dowui with a bang
on “Sons o’ Guns” at Her Majesty’s on
Saturday, but it had had an amazing run,
chiefly owing to the Harborside affection for
Gus Bluett—he has the same grip on Syd-
ney that Robey had on London in 1917. The
new show, starting next Saturday, is
“Turned Up,” with most of the ruling min-
istry in the chairs. Rolls and Marlow,
shrewd showmen both of them, will produce
panto, about a week hence —Rolls at St.
James and Marlow at the Opera. Judged
by preparations both shows, if they are no-
thing else, will be lavish. Spectacle seems
to be the keynote of the plans of attack
on both fronts.
ft- ¥ *
The “Runaway Girl” revival has meant
a useful Christmas gift for Adelaide chari-
PORTRAIT: Federal Minister laying his plans before
Caucus .
ties. The 10-night season (expanded by
general demand from the week originally
intended) took £2425. Expenses were a bit
more than half this; and eventually eight
selected charities received a cheque for £139
each.
* *
People with a passion for labelling have
. branded Paul Joseph McDermott as the
Australian Heifetz. McDermott made his
debut at South-street when 12 years old. At
14 he defeated all-comers, including several
adults, and won the Bernard Heinze scholar-
ship with his playing of the Mendelssohn
concerto. He made another appearance at
the Melba Hall the other night, and gave a
rendering of the Wieniawski concerto in D
which astonished seasoned fiddlers with its
unusual air of maturity. Up-to-date Mel-
bourne has not been fecund in first-class
violinists.
* # ¥
Dick Ovenden, author of many Bulletin
caricatures, is hard at work in Melbourne
on an Australian animated cartoon. Up
to date some thousands of separate drawings
have been made, and. if they photograph satis-
factorily F. W. Thring hopes to see the
koala competing with Mickey the Mouse for
the patronage of Australian audiences. A
20-minute film involves the drawing of about
5000 separate cartoons.
Poverty Point
“C. 8.”: Amongst the ancient history re-
called by the revival of “The Cingalee” at
Melbourne Royal is Charles Albert. He was
the Devil Dancer of the original production.
He made his debut on the Australian stage
with Pollard’s Lilliputians.
“Cauboy” : McMahon has had such success
with plays above the ordinary or potboiling
class at Melb. Bijou that he is going to
venture further in 1931. Among works
listed are Maeterlick’s “Miracle of St.
Anthony,” Chesterton’s “Magic,” Shaw’s
“Saint Joan,” Bernard Fagan’s “And So to
Bed,” Helen Simpson’s “A Man of His
Time,” Molnar’s “The Play’s the Thing” and
Robins Millar’s “Thunder in the Air.” The
co. had good attendances for Pirandello’s
“Right You Are,” and they were deserved.
“Craiser”: French comedian Grock, men-
tioned in a recent Point par., seldom left
Paris during his long career. In 1926 he
had a season in London, but the income-tax
collector touched him for £5OOO. In addi-
tion, he owed a huge sum for super-
tax, clapped on after he left. This so embit-
tered him that he even refused the offer of
Sir Oswald Stoll to pay off his arrears and
give him £B5O a week if he would return.
It is doubtful whether the proposal to bring
him to Australia ever got further than being
a proposal.
“Pat”: Brisbane Repertory Society offers
50 guineas for the best play submitted
before March 31, 1931. The winning play
will be produced next September. The
society lately did three nights’ good business
with Vance Palmer’s “Christine,” a four-act
comedy. “Christine,” which concerns a
family in a Victorian orchard district, is
gently satirical, with clever dialogue and
with the element of surprise never absent.
Four years ago the society produced another
comedy by Vance Palmer, “A Happy
Family,” based on a vendetta and reconcilia-
tion on a West Queensland cattle station.
“Frinigga” : The New York stage is getting
very near the limit in exploiting (1) the
unprintable remark, (2) the more-tlian-sug-
gestive situation, (3) the human form. For
1 and 2 “The Greeks Had a Word For It,”
by a woman author, strives hard —the cur-
rent “word for it” being admittedly un-
usable. (But one line from this deserves
to live, the remark of a girl, busy with the
champagne, that “Pint bottles must have
been invented by some damned teetotaller.”)
As for No. 3, one critic says, “Ziegfeld’s
idea of the well-dressed woman is to balance
a large intricate gadget on top of the girl’s
head, and sort of let nature take care of
the rest. And to think of the fuss Lady
Godiva created doing a single turn!”
“Lord Luvus”: According to a critic in
the Cape “Argus,” Frank Neil’s Comedians
are as manna in the desert to the S’Africans.
Says the critic:—
The more I see of this co. the more I admire their
daring in invading this theatrically snobbish country
of ours. Half the playgoers in S’Africa would suffer
a physical pain if made to laugh in the theatre by
something that wasn’t quite in the best traditions
of Garrick and Edmund Kean. As for watching a
troupe of players who take an impish delight in
super-imposing a bright surface on what has been
for years an acceptedly dull play, it would be un-
thinkable. Frank Neil is making theatrical history
in South Africa—or at least, is breaking theatrical
ice.
This is presumably a graceful tribute to
Neil’s habit of playing English and American
drawing-room comedy in broad Australian.
“Adam Ant”; At Edith Taliaferro’s last
performance at the Comedy, Melbourne, 1
saw Bland Holt and his wife sitting in the
stalls. Bland Holt’s hair is snow-white
now, but his eye has the old twinkle. Bland
was born at Norwich (Eng.), and first
appeared on the stage there as an infant
with his father and mother in “The Cataract
of the Ganges.” He was brought to Aus-
tralia at the age of four, when his father
(Clarence Holt) and William Hoskins had
the T.R., Melbourne. Later Bland went to
the Otago Boys’ High School in Dunedin,
and afterwards MacFarlan’s school at. Brigh-
ton (Vic.). Back in England, lie com-
menced his stage career seriously with
Charles Dillon at the Marylebone Theatre,
London. He came to the Victoria, Sydney,
in 1876, opening in the burleque “Ixion.”
What a lot he did to amuse Australia after
that!
“Sceneshifter” : The seldom-used legend of
“Beauty and the Beast” forms the basis of
Geoi’ge Marlow’s panto, at Sydney Opera
House. Nellie Stewart was principal boy
in the last version (from Tosco Taylor’s
pen) at Sydney Lyceum, 1893-94. Princi-
pals included George Lauri, Dick Stewart,
Florence Young, May Pollard, Howard Ver-
non and the Faust Family. Mdlle. Bartho,
a Russian, led a glittering “Ballet
of All Nations,” and Lucy Cobb was
an alluring Columbine in the bustling
harlequinade of the Faust Family. Teddy
McLean. the father of the dancing
McLeans, was an agile Harlequin in
the previous staging of the legend at the
Victoria, Pitt-street, 1875-76. The panto,
opened with a midnight scene outside
Sydney G.P.0.; in the cast were Harry
Lcston, Myra Kemble, Nat Douglas, Billy
Andrews, Tilly Andrews (the Beauty)
and Harry Simmons (the Beast). _ Monty
Grover combined the yarn with that
of “The Sleeping Beauty” in a J-CAV-
panto at Sydney Royal, 1903-04. Billed
as “The Sleeping Beauty and the Beast,
or “Mother Goose and the Seven Cham-
pions,” it had fine music by Alfred Hill.
May Beatty, Minnie Hooper, Fred Graham,
Fred Leslie and Lizette Parkes were princi-
pals, with tenor Henry Bracy as producer.
“L de Rideau”: Hugh D. Mclntosh was
the first entrepreneur in the British Empire
to offer free entree to V.C. men. V illiam-
son’s followed; the Palladium, London, heaid
of the idea, and it became general. Ilugn
D*s life-pass takes the form of a gold
medal which, incidentally, is good for admis-
sion to several of London’s entertainment
halls The latest to claim one was Issy
Smith, the Jewish V.C.. now running the
Melbourne business of a British film concern.


No. 5 of a Series of Interviews.
r
:
m
IMI
■ aaiiHi
■
<■
m
m
■
f
m
&
.
V
V*
m
mm x
BU
is*! *
HsS,4
wma
“Union has helped our fun
over a good many miles ”
Road Map
The Atlantic Union Oil
Company Ltd. announce
that copies of their FREE
ROAD MAP are now avail-
able from leading garages
everywhere. If you experi-
ence any difficulty in getting
yours, write direct to the
Company.
“W/E’RE off for a fortnight of fun. All
our sporting gear is in here —the car
has been tuned —the tank is filled with Union.
Everything is set for a super holiday.
We’ll cover a good many miles today but
we know Union well enough to be sure of
really enjoyable motoring.
Ever since I first tried Union I’ve been
keen on it. I get more mileage there’s
tons of pep and I’m sure I’ve heard the
last of engine ‘knock’.”
UNION
non-detonating
SUPER SPIRIT
“ The Running Mate of Atlantic Motor Oil


aMvasias
mm
*
‘a/!J /O/ooQ po</s/n£u//srp
Gf>uo/sOai>nQ yo ao/t/ao
—XV
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the -disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s , Brisbane.
TelefJhone, Central 83211 —6 Lines .
DEPENDABLE POWER TRANSMISSION
i <;s;i
(in
*
BBS
iiiS
is one of the greatest factors in the successful opera-
tion of the power plant.
MANGROVITE WATERPROOF
Leather or Rawhide Belting
ensures absolute efficiency in that direction —for it is
a product of the highest quality, tried and proved
on many important installations. Mangrovite Belting
is cemented throughout with waterproof cement; the
result is a belting impervious to wet or damp con-
ditions that will run smoother, more evenly, give
greater grip and considerably more resistance to
hard wear, and is actually 25 per cent, better value
thah belts made under the old method. Samples
free to any address.
MANGROVITE BELTING LIMITED,
Charles Ludowici, Managing Director,
49 YORK STREET (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms ■ 200 Baths
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Tariff.
Day. Week.
Single Room and Meals .. .. 25/- 168/-
Double Room and Meals .. .. 45/- 300/-
Single Room and Breakfast .. 15/- 100/-
Double Room and Breakfast .. 27/6 182/6
Telephone: F 4141.
ABORIGINALITIES
NOT THE PLACE IT WAS CRACKED UP TO BE.
LALELY-ARRIVED SINNER: “You want to give your Water Board a stir up, Nick, old man.
I ain’t been able to have a shower ever since I got here.”
“R. McD.” : “He gets on the ear at Nowra,”
said the driver, “an’ books through to
Moruya. Bein’ a bit late I’m steppin’ on her
a bit, and I can see he has the wind up.
When we gets to Milton, he taps me on the
arm. ‘Are you going to continue this terrific
pace all the way to Moruya?’ he asks. ‘Too
right,’ says I. ‘They callme the early mail-
man, and I’m goin’ to live up to me reputa-
tion.’ ‘That bein’ the case,’ he says, grabbin’
his port, ‘l’m goin’ to be the late passenger.’
An’ the cow hops off and waits for the oppo-
sition car.
* * * *
“Murrungurry”: The dingo’s coat, if un-
damaged, is worth something to the
dogger; but in some big districts the
receiver demands the scalp “and
brush, connected with a strip
of skin down the back. This
came into operation years ago
as a result of unscrupulous
practices. Different rates pre-
vailed in different districts, and
hunters, travelling from one in-
fested part to another, packed the
scalps to some centres and the
brushes to others:. Dingo statistics
in consequence got badly mixed.
Again, while the scalp was
quired in most places the brush
was accepted in others. The
smart dogger sold both, and each
extremity was recorded as a dog
destroyed. Sometimes there was
an arrangement between doggers
whereby ears were exchanged for
tails at stipulated times and
places. One day a squatter, having
received some information, set a
watch, and straightway a profit-
able industry got a touch of
depresh.
* * *
“Polycarp”: Do snakes slime
their prey before swallowing? The
ayes have it unanimously, but in
this country at all events snakes
do nothing of the kind. Ever
since “The Swiss Family Robin-
son” Australian kids have been
taught that fiction, among others.
I’ve seen snakes dining on insects,
eggs, birds, mice, other snakes and
big game, and I once watched a
12ft. Queensland carpet-snake
take over half an hour to get
outside a young wallaby as big as
a fox-terrier. The reptile throws
a few coils and thus breaks the
bones by constriction when neces-
sary, and the victim always goes
in head first. There is never a
sign of sliming.
“Pick”: The sex-call theory does not
account for the clamor of crickets, frogs and
toads. No cricket needs to chirp 90 times a
minute to win the attention of a lady cricket
in the vicinity. The incessant clatter seems to
be impelled by an elemental egotism, a love of
vociferous self-expression, and a constant
urge to outdo the other fellow. These choris-
ters are the keenest of sight and hearing of
living things. If a crane hovers high over a
swamp every frog or toad in the region imme-
diately becomes mute. A faint tap on the
earth will silence every cricket for hundreds
of yards around. When the interruption
passes, a light chirp from some fellow in the
massed band is the signal for all to go full
steam ahead once more.
TOO MUCH PUBLICITY.
“What do ’ee think of new lectern, Brother Trennear?”
“Bain’t so good as old wudden pulpit. ’Ee should have haird t’ old woman talkin’ ’bout
preacher’s baggy knees.”
“Sea Nomad” : A rumpus w'hich will make
the South Sea Bubble explosion seem like
a squib in comparison is due any moment
in the South Pacific, and the missionaries will
make the detonation. For long the various
denominations have been at loggerheads.
With the rapid progress of settlement in the
Islands in the last 20 years, the
position has become acute, with
new bodies rushing in to labor in
vineyards already tilled. The old-
established missions resent the
intrusion of the newcomers. They
feel that the claims staked by the
pioneer padres, who risked fever
and the cooking-pots of the canni-
bals, oughtn’t to be jumped in this
fashion. “Why,” ask the older
missioners, “don’t these fellow's
open up new territory as we did?”
The niggers, who v'atch the fight
with increasing bewilderment, have
given up trying to understand it.
Their philosophy is that the best
creed is that whose mission offers
the biggest price for cocoanuts.
Meanwhile planters, recruiters,
miners and officials watch the
gathering of the storm with un-
veiled delight. They don’t love mis-
sionaries.
❖ ❖ tjC ❖
“Polycarp”: Bird-eating spiders
are not confined to the Amazon
countries. There is one great
s urry brute met with in North
Queensland which puts such a
thread across a track from tree
to tree that to a rider it feels as
strong as cotton, and will check
him a moment. It is very seldom
that a bird is taken, the usual scran
being quite small insects. These out-
size spiders belong to the Aviculariidae
group, and a tiny animal is as readily
killed by them as an insect or a
little bird. They are sparse eaters, for
spiders, and will remain alive for months in
captivity with no food at all. The biggest
spider in the world is one of these —a South
American giant, whose body alone is the
length of a man’s palm. The brand says
T. leblondi.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“B.B.”: There came a time when I had to
admit that there was no longer any question
about my wife’s trying to pull the wool over
my eyes. I had been more or less asleep—
entirely unconscious that anything of the
sort was going on. Once my eyes were opened
I realised that things could not continue as
they were—it gave me too uncomfortable a
feeling. There was nothing else to do but to
speak to her quietly, taxing her with. her
actions, and making her see that conditions,
from my standpoint, were unbearable. So I
spoke: “Cleopatra, please don’t hog the
blanket —you’ve pulled it all up over my face,
and my feet are freezing.”
* * :{: *
“Phelim” : Old Dinny Dineen was dying,
and he had made his confession to Father
Flanagan. Fortified by morphia injections
supplied by Dr. Ryan, he faced his end with-
out pain. He was a friendless old chap, and
I happened to be his last visitor. “Oi’m
goin’ into the darrk, Pheylim,” he said, “but
Oi’m not afraid. Oi cud give ye good advice,
but that ye wud not take, but me knowledge
must not all be lost. If ye ever have the
opportunity to be the custodian of a barrel
of rum there’s a way to get away with some
of it that can niver.be found out. Publicans
and the loike of that can tell how much is
inside just by shaking the cask. Get you
a pig’s bladder an’ insert it through the top
bunghole, tethering it at the top. Thin draw
off a quart or so by shoving a thin knife
bechune the staves. Then fill the bladder
with water until the rum fills the cask again,
and let the bladder drop. D’ye understand
me?” I said that I did, and the old chap
nodded his head solemnly. His last words
were: “Sir Oisac Newton niver hit on a
brainier oidea.”
* * * *
“Kaisinek” : The approach to the great
grass lake of Parambei “in-swamp” from the
Upper Sepik (Mandated Territory) is as
weird as the maddest dream. The canoe
noses _ along narrow channels choked with
“pit-pit” grass that pushes up out of the
water. Wild sugar-cane fights for existence
on every mudbank. The crew, poling fore
and aft, bend their heads as the grass rustles
over their shoulders. Flowers —pond-lilies of
a sort—carpet the water. Bedlam breaks
loose as clouds of water-fowl rise heavily
to settle astern in a storm of wings on leaf-
covered ripples. Buoyed upon the blaze of
flowers are crocodiles that look like logs.
Now and again the savage at the bow makes
a jab at a particularly lazy reptile. A sullen
boom echoes from far across the sighing
maze. Village is calling to village and the
garrimuts are being pounded.
A BUSH JUDGMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Them city blokes,” remarked old Dan
Pblglase,
“Are too luxurious, Otto Niemeyer says.
It’s up to ’em, ’e thinks, to mend their ways,
“It didn’t matter much while wheat an’ wool
Was worth a lot, an’ loans was plentiful,
But now they’ve simply gotter take a pull.
“ ’E’s right, that wise old bird—’e knows
wot’s wot,”
Said Dan; “ ’E’s put ’is finger on the spot,”
And stirred some rabbit stewing in the pot.
“ ’E’s been in Sydney town, an’ I ’ave, too,
An’ seen the way in wine their cash they
blew,
While beer’s a treat for chaps like me and
you. ,
“Races an’ flicks an’ golf an’ motor-cars,
An’ jewelled janes an’ toffs that throng the
bars
In costly clobber, smokin’ fat cigars,
“An’ drinkin’ whisky at a bob a nip—
With woollies that it doesn’t pay to clip,
kn’ wheat at rates that give a man the pip.
“’E knows. ’E’s given’ ’em the dinkum oil
Wot’s got the country into such a coil,”
Said Dan, and set the billy on to boil.
“We work long hours to keep the tucker-box
Half full, an’ them 'that’s put us on the
rocks,
They live, ’e tells ’em straight, like fightin’
cocks.
“It’s them, not us, wot’s got to mend their
ways.
They call old Otto names, but spare me days!
’E’s got the strong o’ things,” said Dan
Polglase.
N.S.W.
T. THE R


LONC LIFE
/**
Owing to special
process in manu-
facture of the lead,
the ‘Mephisto’ Copy-
ing Pencil lasts much
longer, yet writes
easily and smoothly
without heavy
pressure.
Med;um, Hard and
Extra Hard Degrees.
mj THE POPULAR
COPYING PENCILS
Also in 8 colours for checking, . tc.
From all Stationers, etc.
Ik A C. HARDTMUTH, of “ KOH-I-NOOR” Pencil fama
London Office —29, Kingsway, 1Y.C.2
Australian Representative— „„„„
JOHN MACDOUGALL, P.O. Box 165, SYDNEY.
hjb
TecalemiT Ltd.
LUBRICATION EXPERTS
MITRE HOUSE, SCRUBBS LANE,
WILLESDEN, LONDON, N.W. 10
LUBRICATION BY AUTOMATIC
HAND GUNS.
HIGH PRESSURES WITH CLEANLINESS
AND AUTOMATIC ACTION OPERATED
BY ONE HAND ONLY.
(Slide-on or Push-on Connectors.)
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street Perth
Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street Adelaide
, Keep Bros. & Wood Pty., Ltd., Bateman Street .. Melbourne
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street Sydney
Martin, Wilson Bros., Ltd., 299 Adelaide Street .. Brisbane
Factory Representative:
Mr. James Thornell, 312 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“Mirridong”; Contrary to general belief,
“Burrinjuck,” the name fastened to the
great dam on the Murrumbidgee, is pidgin
English, and not aboriginal. The change was
brought about for the reason that “Barren
Jack,” the name originally given to the
dam, taken from that of an adjacent moun-
tain, was causing people not acquainted with
the locality to conjure up mental pictures
of a stony waste, a delusion which
the Public Works Department, headed by
Arthur Griffith, wished to dispel. Where-
upon the Minister made proclamation
that he strongly desired aboriginal place
names to be applied when such were known,
and in pursuance of this direction depart-
WHEN THE CAT’S ASLEEP, ETC.
mental officials set out to ascertain
the native word for “Barren Jack.” The
search was short; an inquiry addressed
to an ancient black gin as to the name of
the mountain elicited the reply “Burrinjuck.”
But the name “Barren Jack” remains im-
perisliably inscribed on the masonry of the
dam itself.
“Up Top”: On top of a dump at Light-
ning Ridge stood a tall, stern, grey-bearded
man, a double-barrelled gun in his hands.
He meant business. He roared down the
shaft for the young chap to come on top.
A muffled shout floated up, “Go to Hell!”
The greybeard laid aside the gun and upended
the windlass, allowing the top logs to go
thumping and bouncing down the shaft.
Then he commenced methodically shovelling
the dump down. A crowd of diggers collected,
but there were reasons why they didn’t inter-
fere. The young chap below desperately
shovelled _ the fast-falling dirt back into the
drive behind him, but the toiler above formed
a chute and simply poured the stuff down.
By midday the lad below was bogged to his
waist in dirt, and the drive behind was
choked up. He called “Enough!” It took
him a long time to climb up the shaft ; he
stood there, trembling at the knees, a fine
young figure, stripped to the waist, caked
in sweat and dirt. The greybeard tapped
the gun held loosely in the crook of his arm.
“What are you going to do about it?” he
growled. “I’ll marry her,” said the youngster
sullenly. He did.
Hi S*C }Jj
“Frigid”: ’Ware the finger cherry of N.Q.!
The ripe fruit is a bright red color and of an
appetising appearance, shaped like a thick
finger. The other day a newchum Italian
merely bit one and. finding it bitter, spat
it out and forgot all about it. Three days
later he was. totally blind. He was about the
hundredth victim. There is no known cure
for the blindness caused by this plant. A
Cairns hotelkeeper took his blind child to
specialists on the Continent, in England and
the U.S.A., but they could do nothing.
* t- * *
“Erua”: Maoriland’s beautiful waterfowl
the pukeko. which with its dark blue
plumage and scarlet legs is an ornamental
feature of swamp areas, has for some time
been under suspicion as an enemy of the
farming community, and has suffered the
penalty of being shot on sight in great num-
bers. The Bird Protection Society doubted
the guilt of the bird, and induced the De-
partment of Internal Affairs to examine the
crops of some dozens of pukekos. Result:
an acquittal for the birds, which are exoner-
ated as being eaters of green stuff and in-
sects even when feeding in the vicinity of
grain crops. The society is moving for pro-
tection for the pukeko.
* * * *
“Dai R.”: Up till quite recently the
N. S. Wales farm-
ers (and bush men
generally) have
remained blind to
the many virtues
of the budda-tree,
and vast tracts of
it have been de-
stroyed while far
less serviceable
timber has been
retained. Budda is
now beginning to
come into its own.
Round Dandaloo,
Tottenham, Tulla-
mor e, Fifie 1 d,
Trundle and many
other places it has
attained pride of
place for fencing-
post purposes, it
having been discov-
ered that it is as
near immune from
decay as any earth-
ly vegetable can be,
and entirely white-
ant proof. Its tough
resilience is rapidly
making it a favo-
rite for plough
draw-bars, axe- and
other handles,
wheel-spokes, etc.
Its merits have
long been known in
Queensland, parti-
cularly in the
Fisher country (be-
tween St. George
and the border),
where, besides the
uses enumerated,
oil is extracted by
a crude process and
used in place of
Stockholm tar in
sheep work. The
proper spelling of
the tree’s name, by
the way, is “bud-
tha,” an aborigi-
nal word meaning
strong-smelling.
“Hadahoss”: The Brigade was hurrying
through a valley in Palestine, the horses
frantic at the smell of green things after 12
months of desert, sands. Our job was to root
out Ali El Hassan and his band of cut-
throats. Suddenly Harvey, a nice chap but
impetuous, caught sight of a field of poppies.
He confided to me that his girl, back in
THE TRICK OF THE TRADE.
WOMAN: “Well, I can't get over it—a little man like that being a lion tamer.”
ATTENDANT: “That is the secret of his success, Madam. The lions won’t touch,him—
they are waiting for him to grow big enough to make a decent meal.”
Nimmitabel, gave him one of those flowers
when they parted. When an old crusaders'
church came in view above orchards and
cactus hedges there suddenly echoed the
“plip-plop !” of snipers’ rifles firing from Beni
Sali, immediately chorused by the roar of a
heavy shell from Weli-Sheikh-Nuran. The
squadrons galloped across the barley fields
hastened by a rattle of machine-gun fire as
the Maorilanders charged Ivhan Yunus. Our
regiment fired only a few shots. Only one
man was killed —poor Harvey, and he
clutched a scarlet poppy in his hand.
* * * ❖
“Rougemont”: Anyone ever read Juies
Verne’s “On the Track—A Story of Life in
Australia”? Had my first squint the other
day, and rode through South Australia from
Adelaide to Gippsland with the author.
Vast forests which “cast no shade” were
traversed, and across the track and about the
landscape “swift cassowaries” footed it
merrily to the howling of “jackals.” Our
first hint of civilisation was a meeting with
a mob of “Pigfaces,” a breed of sheep “with
pigs’ heads; peculiar to New Holland.” We
found that while the wood was incombustible
stones often melted in the rain, and that
while forests were low grass was gigantic.
Quadrupeds had beaks (the dear little platy-
pus!) and foxes flitted among the trees. As
for the birds —“one laughs when it gets
up in the morning, and another weeps when
it goes to bed at night.” It is disappoint-
ing that in his vivid catalogue of our fauna
Jules makes no mention of our politicians.
Possibly he mixed them up with his descrip-
tion of the sheep.
-is * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: Sydney recently saw an
Arab horse enthusiast in W. Melchior, once
studmaster in Russia to two grand dukes.
Forced out of Russia, he intends to establish
an Arab stud in Maoriland, preferably near
Auckland. What he will do with the pro-
duce of the stud it is difficult to see, unless
he relies on the export trade, for Austra-
lians and Maorilanders have no time for the
Arab, which is not in the same street as a
saddlehorse or on the track with the Waler.
Studs have been established several times in
Australia, notably in South Australia and
Queensland, but never came to anything. An-
other trouble to be faced is the obtaining of
breeding stock. Sires can be got in plenty,
but these will have to come from the Eng-
lish studs, as importations from any other
country are forbidden. Arab mares of dis-
tinguished pedigree are rarely sold by their
breeders of the Nejd, whence the best blood
comes. Even filtered through the English
studs first-class mares will be hard to come
by, and the mare represents 75 per cent, of
success in breeding to type.
* * sjt *
“Polycarp”: You don’t know where you
are with ’possums. The biggest turncoat
in the bush is the ’possum known in the
.vernacular as the long-tailed, and to scientific
gentry as T. vulpecula. I knew a trapper
in the Dorrigo who sent five pelts, all new
.to him, to the Sydney Museum for informa-
tion, and the expert there reckoned that
three out of the five were really the same
species—the common long-tail—though their
colors differed widely. After that I followed
up the vagaries of this particular ’possum,
which is perhaps the largest in Australia —
a good 2ft. without the tail. It seems that
the commonest coat is a pale silver grey,
while 'old males get rufous on shoulders
and neck. In Queensland the same marsupial
is a bright red; in Victoria it is a rich dark-
brown, and in W.A. it is quite black except
for the whitish belly. Besides, there are indi-
viduals sporting all shades in between. Why
do scientists insist that all these are local
variations of the same ’possum, and not dis-
tinct species?
:|: * * *
“Wrash” : In suggesting that a man or
an animal could not sink in a quicksand
“Hydraulicus” (B. 12/11/’3O) fails to un-
derstand the effect that weight exerts on a
large surface of drifting wet sand. Pressure
brought to bear on a mass of quicksand at
once depresses the area for a distance
around and forms a concavity. Instantly
loose sand from the sides and rim of the
basin rushes inwards, arid a powerful down-
ward suction is created! In its vortex a
struggling victim is surely engulfed. A man
of coolness and gumption lies prone and rolls
himself quickly out of danger.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“Cooramin”: Are there any shearing-sheds
nowadays like the old ones of the ’eighties
and ’nineties? Burrawang (N.S.W.) in one
year put through 272,000 sheep, and Dunlop,
neaT Bourke, 276,000. Midkin, near Moree,
came close with 247,000; Milo, the big
Queensland shed, went better in 1909 with
248,000. There were several others that
mustered huge flocks, and loaded a string
of wool-waggons when the blade kings had
finished with them. But a couple of old-
man droughts, assisted by dingoes, made a
big slump in the numbers, and the shearer
who gets into a 200,000 shed now has some-
thing to talk about.
SHOCKIN’ ’AY! (CHUCKING HAY.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Some plogues t’ink id a helleffer chop,
Shockin’ ’ay!
Vdn veek I to for t’irty pop,
Shockin’ ’ay!
Mit a four-dine fork, undt den-bound slieaffs,
I dell you it maig you roll your sleaffs!
Die sonn ret ’ot. undt die tust lige flour,
Oudt mit die paddicks eleffen ’our,
Sveattin’ lige you bin undter die shower,
Shockin’ ’ay!
Gold dea, undt pakon, undt preat for lonch,
Shockin’ ’ay!
“Shage id op, Carl! You lose your boncli!”
Shockin’ ’ay !
Die poss, ’e ket on dop off die loat
Undt svear lige tonder, do glear ’iss Croat,
Undt die loat ket ’igher, undt ’iglier, alreatty,
Undt die bitchvork shlip, ’coss your ’ants iss
sveatty.
Shockin’ ’ay!
Bot, seffen o’glog die sonn co town
(Shockin’ ’ay !)
Undt I glean meinself, undt co do down.
(Shockin’ ’ay!)
I mead all die sliaps ad Murphy’s bob,
Undt I shouds for dem mit a copple o’ pob;
Den dey shouds a copple ’o bints for mein,
Undt die landtlort shoud some bints for scin.
Ali coot shaps, undt none off dem sdingy,
Undt effery von fill op ’iss pindgy,
Dim ve all coes lieim do paid
Undt shleeb all naighd lige ve vos taidt.
Bot ven die sonn vos keddin’ op,
Ve vos all pack in die plotty grop,
Shockin’ ’ay!
S.A.
CHARLES HENRY SOUTER.


Mi
G~
ANNOUNCING P. & C. ACCIDENT
AND SICKNESS ASSURANCE
For nine years the co-operative
policy of the P. and C. has won
the goodwill of the Man on the
Land throughout the length and
breadth of Australia.
The Company now announces
accident and sickness assurance
on the same co-operative basis.
The liberal nature of these
policies and the special benefits
they provide will make an imme-
diate appeal to all who wish to
protect their incomes and pro-
yide for additional expenses
incurred during periods of dis-
ablement.
Send for literature and full
particulars to
PRODUCERS S'CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. QJF AUSTRALIA LTD,
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: H. Fell
Head Office: P. & 0. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
_ N.S.W. Agents; Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
Agency Co., Ltd. ■==
3
vt:
w
%
L. New Zealand's
Daintiest Delicacy..
Tiny inch-long fish, unique
in flavour .. . found only
in New Zealand’s sparkling
streams, and then for but
three months of the year,
WHITEBAIT is a delicacy
beyond compare. Served
from the can, or fried in
batter, you are sure to
‘rave’ about WHITEBAIT
as do New Zealanders—
who send us these delicately
flavoured, tiny fish straight
from their streams ... in
cans that bear the label
“St. George.”
bhjbj
Irvine & Stevenson’s St. Gearee Co. Ltd. Dunedin, N"w Zealand,
SMOKE-OH!
IF TOMBSTONES TOLD THE TRUTH.
“Here lies the husband of big Jane Ames.”
One day he called her insulting names.”
“It was the shock of the unexpected that
killed Bob Twight.
Ifis wife forgot to mention it once when he
came home tight.”
“Yo ho! Heave ho! Bill Brace, the bos’n,
lies below.
Bill’s passion for rum was the cause of his
doom.
When sober he’d never fall off a jib-boom.
‘'Here lies the body of Aubrey Doak.
He was kissing a ivife when the husband.I
awoke.”
# *
It is understood, apropos the N.S.W.
Agency-General, that Willis is barkin’.
* *
N.S.W. punters say that the proposed 10
per cent, on winnings is over the odds.
* #
Girls are always eager to discover what
the future holds in stores for them.
AS USUAL.
Christmas , alas! is coming once again;
Once more my wife on ties is keeping
check;
Forebodings dismal fill my cesthete’s brain —
I know I’ll shortly get it in. the neck.
THE ROBIN MURDER.
Who Fired the Fatal Shot?
THE POLICE COMPLETELY BAFFLED.
The brutal murder of “Cock” Robin, which
took place yesterday, is taxing the brains
of the police to the uttermost. As is cus-
tomary in these outrages the perpetrators
IN THE ABSTRACT.
“Somebody told me that Clara hasn’t had a 'penny from her husband since he went
away. I wonder if it’s true?”
“Yes, I think so, dear. She spoke to me the other day about his unremitting kindness.”
have done their work well. They have left
the authorities little or nothing to work on.
True, a notorious old bffender known far and
wide as “Sparrow,” wdio has not been seen
about the city streets to any extent since
the days of horse transport, claims to have
fired the fatal shot with his “bow and
arrow”—thieves’ slang, according to the
police, for “unlicensed revolver.” Another
undesirable, who was recently declared an
outlaw by Dr. Arthur and has been threatened
with extermination as a child-murderer by the
executive of the Housewives’ Association,
supports “Sparrow’s” story. He was in the
vicinity during the shooting (“I’m pretty
well everywhere at this time of the year,”
lie is said to have laughed), and, according
to his story, actually saw the victim die.
Another member of the gang is reported to
have caught Robin’s blood (his object in
so doing remains obscure) ; and a morbid
night prowler, who flew to the scene on
learning the grim news, dug the grave.
Such is the only evidence so far at the
disposal of the detectives, but it is hoped
that the ghastly mystery may be cleared up
in a few months—or years, at latest. At
present our guardians of law and order are
completely in the dark—as usual. They
have no facts at their disposal which would
justify an arrest. However, as soon as they
get some, an admiring public may rely on
them to take stern action.
(N.B.—The branch marked “X” in the
picture is that on which Robin was sitting
when he was so callously shot down. The
police are satisfied that he climbed the tree
to escape an enemy—or enemies. Inset, a
relative who strongly resembles him.)
10-2-4.
CHANGED IDEALS.
“I might just as well give away my farm as try
to meet the rural-laborers’ wage demands.”
— “Farmer” in “Argus.”
Time teas when rural Laborites
Carried on high their lamps:
They scoffed at luxury's delights,
And lived intensive days and nights
Between their jobs and camps.
They dug, milked, ate, played, drained a
flask,
And kept their country out of debt.
Work on the land, a strenuous task,
Provided all they cared to ask,
And all they hoped to get.
They’re not so keen on working now.
In the pursuit of pelf
They worship skite, and not the plough,
Nor do they care to milk the cow:
They want the cow itself.
J.D.G.M.
“The Mends of the late Mrs. Me will be
pleased to hear she is up and about again.”
—Orange ( N.S.W .) newspaper.
Oh, Death, where is thy sting?
* *
“Nothing will ever satisfy these gentlemen of
Goulburn-street. They attack the Labor Government
even more bitterly than their opponents.”— ‘Sun.”
Hence the name—the Tirades’ Hall.
*{•
LETTER OF THANKS.
My dear Nephew,—l have temporarily
laid aside my magnum opus, “The Pleasures
of Righteousness.” so that I may indite you
a missive of sincere thanks for your thought-
ful Xmas gift of a ease of whisky. I
have already tried it, and if
the remaining bolls are like
this one I’m on now—well,
I’m in for a good time.
Hoorahsli! But seriously—
Plese excush typing. Hie.
Suche goo whis whiskey, my
boy, an evry sphot tastes
bettr n bettr. Bettr n bettr
evry sphot, ole • boy. Fr
evry one f’me I ave one
f’you. Skood whisk swiskey
all ri—giv yr my wrd. Yry
deelien o you to shend me
thishwhiskey—sgood whis-
key whiskeyy to * • sor ri thish wh
whi?k !i: ) Sthill shum left in firsh
boddle, bUt woan B long now. Tash
goo d evrydrop * & I n o w fe%‘%l fine.
XXxTremelyyy %9* GwaTefull** ! as£-/
thisH whiswhikSwhiskeeYY gOOood££@. ;
TsH'@??**! & XXxxxOx).—HereSH Luck-
shsh!!@, S!Un%)cle )Di4c/k.
P.S.—Hooraysh!
•¥
These are times when women growl at
their husband’s short-incomings.
Christmas thought: The most expensive
month in the year is the present one.
¥ #
The road-hog rushes on his way,
Spreading liis slanders round the town;
He reckons it an ill-spent day
When he has not run someone down.
* *
The country has had enough of politicians
who damn the expense; it now wants politi-
cians who dam the expense.
# *
They call it the Scupper House in N.S.W.
now.
THE WRONG TUCKER.
“Here, whatyer got to eat in this joint?”
“Sir, there is the menu!”
“Cripes, I ain’t a goat. Ain’t yer got no corn beef and
spuds?”
Members of Vic. Assembly think dentists
should be allowed to advertise. It would
certainly give them a stronger pull.
* *
SAFETY FIRST.
She stops —
She looks —
She listens.
Then she dabs the part that glistens.
¥ *
CHRISTMAS HINT. '
To friends and relatives: —
I, Watts Eaton Hughes, wish to advise
that I am in no urgent (or other) need of
hankies, pipes, rotten cigars, snakes-and-
ladders sets, slippers, cornplasters, Edgar
Wallace, birdseed, empty wallets, Christmas
cards, or celery.
As Against Which I would look with an
eye of gratitude on one case (or more) of
whisky, motor-car (adult, not baby), whisky,
brewery shares, whisky, non-loanable lawn-
mower, radio-set with plenty of valves,
whisky, copy of “Redheap,” Phar Lap, aero-
plane fitted with trapdoor (large enough to
permit wife being pushed through), whisky,
politician’s gold pass, and some whisky.
Sworn before me this day,
(Signed) Jas. McHoot, J.P.
P.S.—Also some whisky.
Watts Eaton Hughes.
* *
“The woman pays!” one often hears.
With this I don’t agree.
Whether it’s movies, meals or beers,
Mine never pays for me!
STEPPING ON IT.
Wonderful what far-reaching effects a
single discovery can have. Vast rushes of
men have followed seemingly simple inci-
dents.
For instance, there was the recent dis-
covery of gold near Yass (N.S.W.), followed
by the Jerrawa gold rush. There was the
discovery that the Turks, were weakening in
Palestine, and the ensuing rushes by our
Light Horsemen. And in the ’nineties there
were rushes on various banks. All these
movements were joined in by hordes of men,
striving madly to be in the van.
It is doubtful though, if any of them
came up to the rush following on theever-
new Sydney discovery that it’s five to six.
P.
CONFESSIONS OF A PROMINENT
THUG.
[lnstalment I of the Reminiscences, exclu-
sively written for the “Daily Tripe,” of Mr.
Arthur (“Basher”) Stonkrem.]
Tliugging, like jury-squaring, is an art-
Few can earn a living at it; fewer still
are able to boast of their crimes in the daily
press and not be arrested. The
latter gift is known as “get-
ting- away with murder,” and
is encouraged by the natural
liaison which exists _ between
the dangerous criminal, the
police who live by chasing him,
and the sensational papers
which live by writing him up.
All three are in the game to-
gether, so to speak.
I am generally recognised a 3
being the most polished artist
with razor, bottle, loaded-stick
or sandbag resident in the
“snow” crags of the ’Hurst,
and rarely, if ever, miss with
the first slash. Of the many
hundreds I have carved in my
career all have been hospital
cases. Occasionally, of course,
things go wrong. The only
failure t,o effect a really clean
cut was during a stunt in
Upper Campbell, through using
a dulled razor. Utter humilia-
tion at my inability to hack
cleanly was offset somewhat by
what I modestly claim was the
snappiest bit of lead-pipe play
seen in the district. Old hands
will remember the so-called
“Ruo Emoh Outrage” in which
an elderly floor-walker and his
wife were battered to death
while planting out carnations,
and their residence robbed of
3s. Bd, I may say without
boasting that I was the per-
petrator of the little joke in
question. I used an ordinary
coke-hammer, which is to be
handed down to my dear chil-
dren as an heirloom.
I have also done a little
poisoning (I once took a
course at the Borgia Academy, and
acquitted myself fairly well), and I am
a fair shot with gun and revolver. A
Coroner’s Court returned a verdict of “Death
from natural causes” in connection with
the demise of my late wife. It only shows
how childishly easy it is to trick the law.
I strangled her for upsetting my supper
beer. But of this more anon.
( To-morroio Mr. Stonkrem will reveal his
connection with the Glubb’s Dock murder,
and talk brightly about constable-bashing
and magistrate-bribing. Always assuming,
of course, that the Crown Law Office doesn’t
play the nark and arrest him and censor
our highly edifying and novel series.)
S. W. K.
SNAPPED.
“He never liked my make-up, and at last he broke
off the engagement.” —Divorce evidence.
Her color-scheme each day was new,
Each day his love grew fainter;
At last too great the tension grew,
And so he cut the painter.
HER LUCKY DAY.
“I heard such a shocking story about your
husband.”
“Good-o! Tell me, and I’ll stick him for a
new dress!”
SEVEN AGES OF A POLITICIAN.
Street Soapbox.
Domain Platform.
Unemployed Riot.
Long Bay.
Hunger Strike.
Trades Hall.
Gold Pass.
W. P. T.


pif
E23©
W*
©
mzm
1
jgp 3
©
a
6s=a
3
w;
n
e -
ft
TOS]
#
s
IMwl O
yB
ps|w.
F
<%
E 33 ©
ES3
ES23 O
6m
hmm
X
pa^,_
v i -
&


1931.
Resolve to open a Savings Bank account! Save a little each week
or each month and employ the Commonwealth Savings Bank as your
safe and patient assistant.
The man with a Savings Account is not only happier, for the possession
of some ready-money resources —he is stimulated to increase these
resources, to his ultimate great benefit.
If you do not open a general Savings Account, at least start a Purpose
Account—one in which you save for a specific purpose during a definite
period of time. Provide by easy degrees for a payment at a selected
date or for the discharge of a future obligation.
A New Year approaches. You can make it one of progress and
satisfaction.
ifanonwealtb Savings Bank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
A cheque is a passport to business consideration.
A cheque is a receipt in itself. The whole of the
modern fabric of trading and production is based
on cheque payments.
Get into cheque circles with a bank deposit!
Have a Bank Account—Keep it Growing.
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS BANK OF
AUSTRALIA, LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 12 MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth and at London.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
WATER SUPPLIES FOR STOCK.
“Buckwong”: In hilly to mountainous
country it is still far from uncommon to
find complete blindness to the real meaning
and methods of providing adequate water
supplies for stock —especially sheep in back
paddocks. If there is “runnin’ water,” the
owner is satisfied, even though the “runnin
water” may be trickling along the boggy
bottom of a washaway saturated with
excreta. Half a mile of such a crawling
sewerette often provides the water sujiply of
a thousand sheep. “Permanent springs,”
too, are mentioned with gusto, though they
are often in an even more unwholesome con-
dition than the “runnin’ water.” And a
dam in such districts sometimes needs spell-
ing with an “n” to do justice to its con-
dition, being, as it is, left open to the wad-
ing and voiding of the stock. Even where
good streams and holes exist, little atten-
tion is paid to whether or not the sheep
have a fair approach.
Yet in these hilly districts the provision
of proper watering facilities is child’s-play
compared with the expenses that most of
the plainsmen have had to undertake. 1
never saw a spring in the hills where a hole
to collect the oozing water, and a few yards
of piping to deliver wholesome fluid into
a trough, could not have been inexpensively
added. Where the trickling creek has to be
dealt with the job is harder, but still noth-
ing to make a fuss about. Somewhere along
its course is sure to be a bed of clay where-
with to pug up a trifling dam, from which,
again, a few yards of piping may be laid to
the trough. To chop a good long trough
out of a tree trunk is only a day’s work
for a bushman; and such a trough, if kept
full, will last a lifetime.
I know of properties where these little,
improvements would mean a substantial in-
crease of profits; and that not only in dry
seasons but every year. There would be lower
losses, healthier and more contented stock
and complete grazing of areas. Even where
good water is found at one end of a big,
rough paddock, the far, high side may be
only half-grazed.
DOES FEEDING SHEEP PAY?
“Bar. Iv.” : “Atriplex” (B. 3/12/’3O) ques-
tions the advisableness of feeding sheep. At
present prices it would certainly not pay
to feed wethers over a long period, but _ I
cannot see the wisdom of letting ewes die in
a drought if with reasonable expense they
can be kept alive.
The value of a ewe. to a sheepman is not
represented by the price he could get for it
at a sale, but by the fact that it is there to
build up his flock without delay or imme-
diate expense when the drought breaks. If
the flock has been well selected and culled,
ewes on the spot are worth lots more than
those that are bought up wherever they are
available. If the drought has been wide-
spread (and most long droughts are) the
buyer may have to travel far to stock up
at a time when he can least afford it, and
when the whole countryside is looking for
stock.
That is why I advocate top-dressing pas-
tures and planting grazing lucerne, clovers
and grasses to carry the feed as far as pos-
sible into the drought. If hay has been
saved in a good season it should pay to feed
it as a supplement to the natural grasses
when those grasses are failing. The main
idea is to reduce the element of risk to a
minimum. Feed the pastures so that the
root system penetrates deeply to the mois-
ture dowm under, and this will eliminate a
lot of hand-feeding of stock.
As to richness of pasture affecting quality
of fleece, I contend that the clip from a
given number of sheep fed on an area of
good rich pasture will net more than the clip
from an equal number fed on the same area
of hungry land. But I am wholly with
“Atriplex” as regards the necessity for scien-
tific research in the production of weight and
quality fleeces.
A REVOLUTION IN BUTTER
PRODUCTION.
‘Made in Aussie” Normally, butter pro-
duction suffers a serious decline during the
winter months. In N. S. Wales last year there
was a winter decrease of 21,347,0221 b. on
summer figures, the loss to the farmers being
estimated at over a million pounds sterling.
Production for August. 1929, was 7,444,1631 b.
'64 per cent.) less than that for March,
1930. The Norco concern’s output for the
highest summer and lowest winter months
of last year showed a difference of 66 per
cent.
The winter just past was one of the best
ever experienced in the N.S.W. dairy dis-
tricts ; nevertheless there was a decrease in
butter production of 42.3 per cent, for the
State, the highest monthly fall being 65.74
per cent. Norco production decreased by
38.47 per cent., its highest monthly fall being
55.82 per cent.
In order to demonstrate that this winter
slump could be reduced or checked by scien-
tific feeding methods, a competition was
organised by Meggitts among the producer-
suppliers of Norco. Prizes of £5O, £3O and
£2o' were offered to owners of herds show-
ing the smallest percentage of decrease dur-
ing the June-October period compared with
production for January-May. Seventy-four
North Coast farmers competed; at the end
of each month they furnished Meggitts with
returns giving number of cows milked during
the month, number newly calved, number
dried off and number purchased, if any. And
Norco kept records of the monthly produc-
tion of butter in each herd.
In the result the judges were agreeably
astonished. Fourteen p.c. of the herds either
held their butter production within 5 per
cent, of summer levels, or gave a definite in-
crease. And this was done by proper feeding
—supplementing winter grass and crops of
cow cane, saccaline, sorghum, etc., with an
allowance of linseed meal sufficient to pro-
duce a balanced ration. Over nine-tenths of
the initial rations submitted for investigation
were definitely unbalanced; in each case
advice was given which enabled a balanced
ration to be arrived at.
The first prize went to H. C. Blanch, of
Lismore, who milked on an average 31.6 cows
per month for an increase of 9081 b. of butter
over summer production, the increase per cow
being 28.731 b.
Second prize was won by Thomas Griffin,
of Burringbar, milking 28 cows. His increase
over summer production was 7961 b. of
butter; increase per cow 28.421 b.
Third prize was awarded to F. H. Julius,
of Cudgen; 40.4 cows milked gave 8671 b.
more butter than in the summer months, an
increase per cow of 21.461 b.
The total landed cost of the linseed
meal used did not exceed £B5. On this small
expenditure the three herds maintained their
standard of income, instead of losing half
of it, and earned for tlieir owners an extra
£l5O.
The average decrease among the 74 herds
was only 26.9 per cent. This was equivalent
to an increased production of 15.4 per cent,
over State figures and 11.57 per cent, in-
crease on the tonnage going through Norco.
Writes Mr. Julius: “The returns I’ve
had from the factory since using linseed
meal have been simply amazing, and even at
the extremely low price of butter this winter
I’ve netted more money than ever before.”
A senior officer of the Department of Agri-
culture expresses the opinion that not dne-
fourth of the cows in N. S. Wales yield the
quantity of milk they are capable of pro-
ducing, nor is their lactation period as long
as it might be; and he attributes the cause
to insufficient feeding methods. Surely these
competition figures will convince the most
conservative dairy-farmer that it lies within
his own power to increase his income and
the wealth of Australia.
MILK PLUS LIME WATER.
“Alf Alpha” : Whilst in Gippsland recently
I ran across a young dairyman, one of the
new school, who has an intensive system of
culling in operation with the object of build-
ing up a worthy herd. His plan included
feeding the heifer calves on milk broken
down with limewater, so as to build up the
framework and constitution of the future
milker. My friend reckoned that not only
would his future cows be stronger beasts,
but he would be able to rear more poddies
annually because he would conserve the
milk supply.
The scheme is fundamentally wrong, and
in case there are others committing the same
error I send this contribution to the valuable
Land Page. It is a curious fact that cows’
milk contains more lime than an equal volume
of limewater (16 parts to 13), so that the
Gippslander under discussion, in breaking
down the calves’ milk with limewater, was
actually decreasing the amount of bone-
forming minerals fed to the calves. He has
turned a somersault worthy of a politician,
and is now feeding his calves on neat cows’
milk and grazing them on pasture top-dressed
with lcwt. of super.
Of course there are many concentrates
which, when mixed with milk, will increase
the mineral content, but many dairymen are
against their use—mainly from the econo-
mical standpoint, although some contend that
calves do better without them.
DARLING CLOVER.
“Kooragai”: Clover spreads quickly, and
patches improve the pasturage. Most
graziers sow imported clovers; but there is
a native plant that is just as good, and it
grows in the very driest parts of the coun-
try. Known as Darling clover, Menindie
clover, sweet-scented clover, kalumba (abo.)
and by other names, according to locality, it
is found in all the States, even in the cen-
tral regions, being a hardy plant that will
grow in poor soils and under droughty con-
ditions. It flourishes best, however, where
there is a good rainfall; and on rich flats
that are occasionally flooded it produces
heavy quantities of herbage. It has the
three leaflets of ordinary clovers, but bears
clusters of yellow flowers and sm'all pea-
like seedpods.
The seeds are easily propagated, and can
be scattered about the paddocks. The plant
is relished by all kinds of stock, which
quickly fatten on it. As an addition to the
natural pastures in the drier parts of the
country there is nothing better.
“COMBED” PASPALUM SEED.
“E.H.M.”: As a ripe paspalum-seed pad-
dock will lose a considerable amount of its
seed by wind and showers before it is picked,
seed-getters who prefer quantity to quality
adopt a method of harvesting it known as
“combing.” The comber is a wooden frame
4ft. high, to which has been fastened a piece
of galvanised iron 3ft. long and Gin. wide,
with teeth cut in it.
The grass to be combed is cut sometimes
three weeks before the seed on it is pro-
perly ripe, and the seed heads are pulled
through the “comb,” the seed falling on to
a sheet of hessian under it. When sun-
di-ied combed seed is the same color as ripe
hand-shaken, and is sold as such; but its
germinating quality is only about 35 per
cent, as against 90 per cent, of hand-shaken.
Combed seed can be detected on close
examination. At one end of each seed a
minute stem will be attached, the result of
forcing it away from the head before it is
mature.
A MUDGEE FIREBREAK.
“Orange”: The return of the bush-fire
season prompts me to mention a Mudgee
(N.S.W.) farmer’s original way of saving
property and life. H'e top-dresses a 40ft.
strip of each paddock alongside the fences.
This brings a growth of succulent grass, and
sheep refuse to touch the rest until the
sweeter blades are entirely non-existent.
Result, an effective , firebreak round every
paddock, without as much trouble as plough-
ing, and with profit withal. The sheep are
fatter and in better condition than they
would otherwise be, without a'ny of the land
being rendered useless. The Mudgee man’s
method has stood the test of years.
LIGHTING A WELL.
“Mulgo”: A small mirror, with the sun
on its face, is the best means of giving a
light when a man has to fix pipes and make
repairs in a deep well. As the operator is
suspended on the end of a windlass rope, a
lantern is cumbersome, and its light is not
always to be had where it is wanted; and
as often as not candles are useless. But
the looking-glass, held by an assistant on
top, throws a bright spotlight hundreds of
feet down, and can be focussed wherever
it is required. By its means a person can
examine the sides or bottom of his well, no
matter how deep or dark it is, or ascertain
if anything has fallen into the water, by
simply kneeling at the top and manipulating
the glass to suit his purpose.
When it is necessary to go down, lower
a candle first; if that goes out there is foul
air at the bottom. The farmer’s well is
usually a single shaft, and though it may
not be very deep it is not safe to go down
it for cleaning-out purposes yfithout a preli-
minary test. By keeping the mirror light
on the man descending the assistant knows
at once when anything goes wrong.
SCIENTIFIC IRRIGATION.
“Sliadlow” : Tests made at Tresco by the
Vic. Department of Agriculture showed that
irrigation runs of 10 chains length in fairly
sandy soil are unsatisfactory, as by the
time the section farthest from the head ditch
has feceived even a moderate watering the
top section is heavily overwatered. In actual
practice the average grower would apply to
a 10-chain run at least eight acre-inches,
of which the top third would receive nearly
one acre-foot and the bottom barely three
acre-inches. After a Gin. irrigation on a
10-chain run, the water table was 2ft. 4in.
from the surface in the top section, 4ft. Tin.
in the middle section and not within Bft. in
the far section. A Gin. application on a Si-
chain run gave an apparently uniform irri-
gation, and only with difficulty could more
water have been applied.
Where the subsoil is salty the high water
table carries the soluble salts to the root
zone, where they are concentrated with the
rise of soil moisture by capillarity to the
surface. Citrus trees cannot thrive in soil
where the average concentration for the first
4ft. exceeds 21 parts of chlorine (34 parts
of common salt) per 100,000, or where maxi-
mum concentration is 29 parts sodium
chloride in any one part. With furrow irri-
gation the salts attracted to the surface
by capillarity are not washed down again
but are accumulated from year to year.
Flood-irrigation, between check bays, has
been shown to wash the excess salt from the
root zone to the lower levels. A comparison
of salt content of the soil in short runs,
flood- and furrow-irrigated over a three-year
period, showed such marked results in favor
of flooding that furrow-irrigation was aban-
doned. The salt content had been reduced
by flood-irrigation to a safe margin for citrus,
and the analysis made before and after irri-
gation showed that, contrary to the belief
held in some quarters, an excess of salt did
not rise in between irrigations.
Overhead watering, or spraying, is recom-
mended as the ideal method of applying
water, but where installation costs are pro-
hibitive, runs of three chains on fairly level
land, and no more than six chains on steeper
slopes, are the maximum lengths for efficient
irrigation on average soils. Even with earth
head ditches at three to six chains distances
the seepage would cause far less water-log-
ging than would be caused by unduly long
irrigation rows.
BIRDS IN THE ORCHARD.
“R. K. Deea”: All praise to “E.S.” fol-
ios contribution (B. 12/11/’3O) on the value
of birds to the orchardist. Last year I
bought an orchard in Vic. and had hardly
settled down in the place when neighbors
informed me my first duty was to get rid of
a school of leatherheads (the youngsters call
them “chucklelobs”) in an adjacent wood.
To my mind there were more essential things
requiring attention, and it was only recently
when the trees commenced to bloom that I
gave the matter further thought, though the
reminders were persistent.
On recent Sundays I have taken a deck-
chair and book into the orchard, and on each
occasion have observed the “pest.” As a
result I will back the bird, pound for pound
avoirdupois, against arsenate of lead or any
other insect-destroyer. I saw two leather-
heads catch seven codlin-moths _ and three
grey grubs in 15 minutes. Walking through
the orchard I noticed 27 birds —all busily
engaged in seeking and feeding. They are
on duty before I get up of a morning.
It is possible that the “school” will soon
be at my plums. They are welcome! A
decent worker is entitled to a fair wage.
THE PAPER MULCH.
“S. Quire”: Every farm homestead should
have its vegetable garden, but as the bulk of
our vegetables are spring and summer
annuals it is difficult in dry or _ semi-dry
areas to keep the family supplied. In
America, however, vegetables are being
grown successfully in dry (as in wet) areas
with the aid of the paper mulch. Special
paper is used, but for the farm or home
garden it is not essential. Good results can
be got with newspapers, and in Australia.
When Dad has finished reading the papers
let him fold them carefully and put them
away for use on some early-summer day. At
the end of the vegetable beds on top of the
surface soil, stretch thin wire, tightly drawn
and fixed in position by means of two wooden
pegs driven into the ground on each side
across the beds. Along the freshly-tilled
rows and to within three inches of the plants
spread the sheets of paper. Daily papers are
spread by folding the double sheet over and
laying lengthwise along the rows; weekly
papers are opened out and two sheets laid
as one. ■ Fix the sheets in position by stretch-
ing two rows of wire along over the top,
three inches in on either side and fasten
at each end to the cross wire.
Try this and you will wonder why you
did not do it before. Even _in the driest
areas I believe the method will work, as a
little water goes a long way. The benefits
are (1) decreased evaporation ; (2) lower soil
temperature; (3) increased available plant
food, due to the increase in bacterial activity ;
(4) great saving in manual labor (weeding
and hoeing) ; and (5) absence of the dele-
terious physical effects produced on soil col-
loids by overhead spraying or furrow irri-
gation. At the end of the season the papers
meet their usual fate —under the copper.
(Continued on page 26.)


Fodder crop (corn,
sorghum, cane,
etc.), Chaff cutter,
and Meggitt’s Lin-
seed Meal• —the
farmer’s equipment
for balanced high-
production rations.
mmgg/BBgm
mammam
■<
■■■ ■ .•■ ■■ :
a;
Ml '
■
•' - : ,
■
: :
m
' ■
■HI
,
■
■
H
■
n
I
■
n
»
ry
ftS.i: **.:?' *
y*"';«■<*•. V ■ f A
«
*
■ m
*
m
m
mm
m
jfc.* » # .* *
rfWl
SIP
.
ifl
V'J
1
Y'
M^ogfl
.
a
©JlffS!
■■■>v...:
■
| ■ '• i
■
MM
At Last —
Conclusive Proof that
Farm-grown crops plus “Meggitts ” provide
balanced rations which increase the produc-
tion of dairy cattle to an astonishing degree
THROUGH the co-operation of Norco Limited
and seventy-four progressive dairy-farmers, a
controlled test unique in the history of Australian
Dairy Farming has recently been completed on the
North Coast of New South Wales.
By balancing farm-grown crops and grasses with
MEGGITT’S LINSEED MEAL the production of
commercial butter in every herd was increased to a profit-
able degree: fourteen per cent, of the herds practically
doubled their production; eight per cent, of the herds
more than doubled it. (See report on Land Page.)
The Dairying Industry of Australia is losing money daily
because of the fact that the majority of dairy cows do
not produce milk up to their hereditary capacity.
This is due to bad feeding methods—rations unbalanced
• —cattle having a surfeit of one type of nutrient whilst
starved for another —mineral deficiencies, etc.
Twenty years of contact with, and investigation into, the
problems of livestock feeding have fitted us to provide
valuable data on this vital subject of increasing produc-
tion without increasing overhead cost.
We therefore invite individuals (farmers) and organisa-
tions (butter factories, manufacturers of milk products,
distributors, etc.) interested in the production of milk or
commercial butter, to write us on the subject.
We will then submit a full report of the details of the
recent production competition, including percentages of
increase, rations fed, etc., together with particulars of
eight other feeding tests being conducted in various
districts of the Commonwealth.
For those interested in other forms of animal production
we will provide matter relating to their activities.
It lies within the power of every stockowner to increase
his earnings by discarding obsolete methods and adopting
a modern system of breeding, selection, recording and
feeding.
Scientific feeding, usually neglected, is the most potent
factor of all.
Commonwealth
Diitribution:
New South Wales: Meggitt,
Limited, Asbestos House,
corner York and Barrack
Streets, Sydney, and all
Pastoral Houses, or Agents.
Victoria: New Zealand
Loan and Mercantile
Agency Co., Ltd., Collins
Street, Melbourne, and
Branches.
South Australia: Elder,
Smith and Co., Ltd., Currie
Street, Adelaide, and
Branches.
Tasmania: F. W. Heritage
and Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart
and Launceston.
MEGGITTS
UNSEED MF4I
Commonwealth
Distribution:
Western Australia: Elder,
Smith & Co., Ltd., St.
George’s Terrace, Perth and
Branches. Sub-distributors:
Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Perth.
A ’ieensland: All Pastoral
Houses and Agents; also
Denhams, Ltd., Brisbane;
Denham Bros., Ltd., Rock-
hampton ; Cummins and
Campbell, Ltd., Townsville
and Cairns; Corser and
Co., Maryborough.
UpSuUfll
“if
cyPleggltt JZimitecL
HEAD OFFICE ASBESTOS HOUSE.\ORKi BARRACK S’?
SYDNEY. • BOX ISSS.E C.P.Q
Works; Parramatto.NSW Mrfbourne.Vic Port Adelaide. S.A.
hjh


Choose your width!
In every full or half size you may
choose a narrow, medium, wide or
extra-wide fitting of this black velour
calf Abbey Shoe.
It is glossy, supple and low-cut for
snug, easy fit at ankle. The upper
arches comfortably over the instep—
it is built in the natural curve to avoid
all strain and tightness. The flexible
sole is made of the toughest obtainable
leather. No “breaking-in” necessary
—this Abbey Shoe fits easily from
the first time on.
ORDER BY POST.
Specify width as well as length, and
order, also, the correct Abbey Pre-
servative Polish (6d. per tin), or a
handy cleaning outfit (2/6).
Black Velour Calf, 42/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street, and 224 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
CHANDLER’S
Chain and Tripod
HARROW
The Harrow which will do
ALL your job s —both
Pasture and Cultivation,
The only Harrow made in
Australia with renewable
teeth.
Chandler’s Harrow is the most up-
to-date and effective Harrow made.
Other makes of Harrows wear quickly
on front row of tripods, but the
CHANDLER HARROW, with inter-
changeable tripods, enables you to get
three times longer life.
The Spring Steel Teeth are renewable,
and can be varied in length from
2fin., 3in. to 3fin.
Chain and Tripod Harrows.
3 Rows. 4 Rows.
6ft. wide—
£lo 5 0 £l2 15 0
7ft. wide—
£ll 15 0 £l5 0 0
Bft. wide—
£l3 10 0 £l6 15 0
9ft. Wide—
£ls 10 0 £l9 5 0
Depth complete—
6ft. 9in. 7ft. lOin.
The other reasonable prices will be
sent on application.
Manufactured by
234-236 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
276-294 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy.
And at WARRNAMBOOL, BENDIGO,
HORSHAM, BALLARAT and PORTLAND,
VICTORIA.
DO YOU WANT TO EARN MORE MONEY
bhbj
We can set you on the road to better money and an assured profession in life
which offers good opportunities if you have any ability and are persevering.
Our tuition gives opportunity to students not to be found elsewhere. Write
xor our booklet as to our positions, salaries and fees to-day. Start your new
career NOW.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Xmas Gifts
for
Men
Practical and Appreciated .
15he
PLUM
RAZOR
Full Hollow-ground
Highest-grade Steel,
perfectly tempered.
mm
. •'■
I
HBHHI
' HI ' : 5 ■ S ■ 1
Him
Post-paid Prices.
Black Vulcanite Handle, each 12/6
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle,
each 15/6
Real Ivory Handle, each .... 21/-
Strongly made grained leather
hinged case provided free with
every Razor.
Seven Day -“PLUM” Razor Sets:—
Black Handles £4/5/-
Xylo Handles £5
Ivory Handles £7
Per set of 7 Razors in Satin-lined
Oak Case.
“PLUM” RAZORS are supplied in two widths—gin. and £in.
Each Razor set ready for use, and guaranteed and kept in order for two
years free of charge.
THE PLUM RAZOR CUARD
h
h
fits any blade razor f, inch
size.
This guard permits the correct
diagonal shaving stroke, ensuring
a thorough and comfortable shave.
2/9 Post Free.
CLUB REIL CIGARS
RICH, MILD
FLAVOR
HAVANA LEAF
In Cedanvood Gift Cabinets, containin'
15 Cigars
9/:j
Also i:
10
6/-
Hinged-top Cedarwood Boxes of
25 50 100
12/9 24/- 46/3
ALL POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
THE MACHINERY SHED.
“Harvester” : Farmers who get into trouble
with their machinery during busy times,
and then find they can’t get instant atten-
tion from the agents, have themselves to
blame pretty often. They don’t put their
plant in order at the proper time. In many
cases the harvester is shoved away in the shed
and never thought of until a few days before
required next season, when the owner sud-
denly remembers that certain repairs are
wanted and often has to telegraph for them.
Methodical farmers take a list of necessary
repairs at the finish of a job, order the
parts, and when a wet day comes have a
comfortable job repairing under cover. Thus
things are ready when wanted.
Many farmers do not realise what service
machinery-agents give in busy times. I have
often worked overtime, right through holi-
days, and even up till 1 a.m. filling orders,
wliich are not always clear or concise. All
parts are numbered to make ordering simple.
One chap wanted a binder part. “What is
the number?” I asked. “Don’t know,” said
he. “But it looks something like a Salva-
tion Army lassie’s bonnet.” That took some
thinking out; but he got the part he wanted.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Sheep in the Eastern Riverina when
shorn sometimes have patches of wool on
tvhich the yolk has dried, and in most cases
turned yellow, although the rest of the fleece
is quite bright. Cause and cure? (2) Is it
advisable to mix super, with salt in the
troughs for sheep, and if so in what propor-
tions? —455.
(1) Cannot give a diagnosis without
examination. Get in touch with the local
Inspector of Stock, who will investigate. (2)
No. The N.S.W. Agriculture Department
recommends: Sterilised bonemeal, 15 parts;
sulphate of iron, 2\ parts; coarse salt 82£
parts.
Points to be observed when selecting a
breeding boar? —4B4.
Satisfy yourself that he comes from a large,
thrifty litter; buy him from a reliable
breeder and make sure that he is vigorous.
He should be not too chunky or short. Eyes,
ears and legs should be wide apart, the jowl
full and the shoulders smooth and free from
wrinkles. He should be full-chested, with
short legs, and not too heavily-boned. The
pasterns should be short and straight, and
his hams long, wide and deep.
Suitable food for turkey chicks for the
first three iceeks? —399.
Nothing at all until 48 hours after
hatching, and then all food should be
given in small quantities and at frequent
intervals. Stale bread, soaked in milk and
the milk then squeezed out, will be found
convenient. After a few days variety could
be given by the feeding of chick grains, bran
and pollard mash mixed with milk to a
crumbly consistency, together with tender
green feed cut fine. Small quantities of
mixed meat could also be added with advan-
tage. As the turkeys develop they could be
fed less frequently and with larger grains.
How to feed ducklings? —477.
Feed them on bran and pollard, mixed
with milk, soup or water, using just enough
bran to make a good mash.
How to hasten the coloring of lemons? —
476.
Provided the juice content is well de-
veloped, the use of ethylene gas may be
resorted to for hastening the yellowing of
green-colored lemons. The exhaust gas from
an oil engine may also be used with suc-
cess, but care must be taken to avoid a
carbon deposit. The usual practice is to
admit the gas to the fruit while stored in
boxes covered by heavy canvas, or in an
air-tight room. The temperature should be
between 65deg. and 80deg. Fah., and
humidity should be maintained at 80 to 85
per cent, by damping the floor or placing
a dish of water inside the enclosure. The
gas is admitted every 12 hours at the rate
of one cubic foot to every 1000 cubic feet
of enclosed space. A few minutes’ ventila-
tion just prior to admitting the gas every
day is advisable when treatment is under-
taken in an air-tight room. Coloring is
usually complete in from three to five days.
(1) In what N.S.W. soils are peaches
profitably grown? (2) How l should land be
prepared before plantmg? (3) Types of
peaches commercially grown in (a) coastal
belt , (b) tablelands, (c) inland? —481.
(1) In light, warm, well-drained sandy or
loamy land. The trees thrive, too, in well-
drained heavy soil. (2) Cultivate deeply
and break up very finely. (3) Profitable
peach coastal country lies south from the
Manning, (a) Early dessert only, (6) and
(c) dessert and canning.
Can the flannel flower be cultivated away
from the bush? Can you furnish hints as
to planting, cultural methods, etc.? —362.
It can be propagated from seed or by
root division. Seed may be sown in the
spring in either a pan or a box in a mixture
of loam, sand and leaf-mould, or, if procur-
able, in some of the soil from the vicinity in
which plants are growing. The seedlings,
when ready to plant out, should be planted
in a warm and sheltered position. The
roots should be handled as lightly as pos-
sible when planting; the plants, save
for watering, need no attention. The soil
around them should not be disturbed.
(1) What is the largest quantity of
arsenic which can be dissolved in one gallon
of boiling water? (2) Smallest quantity of
washing soda necessary to dissolve one pound
of arsenic? (3) Time necessary to cook
the mixture? (4) Would arsenic pentox-
ide be suitable for sheep jetting? (5)
Strength in water? (6) Would it injure
wool or poison sheep with wounds? —371.
(1) White arsenic (arsenious acid) will
dissolve in boiling water at the rate of nearly
one pound in one gallon of water, but on
cooling two-thirds of this amount will
crystallise out again. (2) About one pound.
(3) Twenty to thirty minutes. (4), (5)
and (6) It is not suitable and there is no
information available as to its effects if used.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Dimon”: A good substitute for axle-
grease is a mixture of tallow and kerosene,
coded together, and left to set; while a
mixture of kerosene and lard makes a good
ointment for girth-galls and sore backs.
M.Y\ .B.”: In parts of Westralia I have
seen haystacks built on platforms allowing
sheep to move about underneath. They
soon learn to, help themselves. Another good
idea is to have long four-inch netting troughs,
made a fair height; these can be filled with
long hay, which jumbuck'will relish to the
last straw. Oats can also be fed to advan-
tage to sheep; some farmers use their broad-
casters for this job. Choose the hardest
ground for spreading, and put out enough
tor a couple of days.
Concrete”: A silo costs money, but you
get it back through being able to store crops
quickly that otherwise you might lose, owing
to climatic difficulties. With the foun-
dation in and a few feet up, you can add
height as the bank balance allows. Even
old‘ tanks make small emergency silos.
“Roseworthy”; Worms in pigs are best
treated by starving the animals for 24 hours
(water only) and then giving santonin in a
small feed of skim milk and pollard at night.
A dose is 2 grains for a pig 151 b.; 3 grains
.S r ain s for 451 b. ; 5 grains for
btub.; 8 grains is the maximum dose. In
the morning Epsom salts (half an ounce to a
warm milk) will get rid of the worms.
‘Senex”: The best thing to prevent the
spread of mammitis, cow-pox and other forms
ot sore teats among milking cows is powdered
borax and water, a dessertspoon to a gallon
(preferably hot), to wash the udders before
mijkmg. This ensures, at any rate, clean
milk and (so far as my experience goes)
sound udders, while the expense is trifling.
Of course, one does not need a gallon of water
for three or four cows; for large herds one
might need more.
Pick”: Medicine done up for horses in
gelatine capsules is often spat out by them.
In administering the ball to a sick horse
hold his nose on a level with his eyes
throughout the operation. Gently withdraw
his tongue and pull it sideways between his
teeth ; then the hand may safely be inserted
into his mouth. Moisten the ball, quickly
pass it as far back in his mouth as possible
and immediately release the tongue Then
holding the mouth tightly closed, watch the
left side of the throat, for a swallowing
motion Often the horse will refuse to swal-
•li £* alse als head somewhat higher, and
with the spout of an old metal teapot pour
vmter into the side of his mouth or through
his nostril. b
f ‘‘ Pan " r ? e ” : you happen to break a
trace chain and haven’t a split link, mend
Hxnmn a of T °- 8l but Put a
twitch in The ends are liable to cut the
horse badly. Straighten the wire out, bend
up three inches at one end in the shape of
the letter ,T Slip the two links to be
joined over the hook and complete the bend
Now run both links round the bend and
repeat with the wire as in the first place
you have a split-link of your turns,
loull have a join that will see the chain
out and iio ends to hurt the neddy.
, . E-H.M.”: A case of bananas must con-
tain H imperial bushels; to get this quan-
tity into a case it is necessary to pack the
bananas singly, not in hands. When they
are ready for market cart them to the pack-
ing shed, cut the hands from the stalks,
break the bananas from the hands and allow
the sap to exude for half an hour before
starting to pack. If the bananas are put in
wet the sap will spoil their appearance.
“Mnnto”: E. H. K. Downes, the Camden
(JN.b.Yv.) farmer who won a recent fodder-
conservation test, pins his faith to grammas
as against cattle pumpkins. The gramma
sets better and lasts well. Fed alone or with
other rations grammas are relished, especially
by pigs. _ They are quick maturers, and a
pound wall plant an acre.
“Scot”; “Buckwong” (B. 5/11/’3O) con-
demns my method of burning down trees (B
15/10/’3O) without giving it a trial, which
explains why, after 50 years, he is still using
the most slovenly of all methods of clearing
timber —Yankee-grubbing or burning-off level
with the surface of the ground. My last
single-handed job was to clear 25 acres of
gum- and apple-tree flat. I started on it
when the politicians were imploring us to
Grow More Wheat, and was able to plough
it 6in. to Bin. deep, and used a rigid tyne com-
bine to sow it; the paddock is now carrying
an eight-bag-to-tlie-acre crop. I drew off any
timber easily split or suitable for shed poles.
Logs too solid to shift I disposed of by
brushing small stuff up against them and
placing two smaller logs, one on each side
as close as possible and parallel with the
log to be burnt, backing the smaller logs
with dirt; then set fire to the small stuff.
To cross-burn, lean a small log over the
big one on either side; the fire will burn up
from underneath and circle the log.
“Curly”; When building a bank of a dam,
or sinking an excavation, the correct batter
(or gradient) is sometimes hard to deter-
mine. A simple and correct means is with
a triangle. Suppose the batter is to be 3 in
1. Get a bit of timber 12ft. long; round
timber will do, and 3 x 1 quartering is ideal.
At right angles to it bolt another piece
of timber 4ft. long. Complete the right-
angled triangle with the hypothenuse, being
another bit of timber nearly 13ft. long. Call
that triangle A, B. C, with B as the right
angle of the junction of the 12ft. and 4ft.
lengths. Stand the point A on the ground,
the line A-B being the 4ft. side. Turn the
point C towards the bank, the line B-C
being the 12ft. timber. Hang a plumb-bob
on a nail from the angle B and with it true
the upright A-B. The line A-C will then
be the correct batter.
Reporting on a top-dressing-of-pastures
competition conducted in the Victoria district
(W.A.), Mr. F. Tj. Shier, of the State Agri-
cultural Department, makes these arresting
remarks: “The beneficial effect of the appli-
cation of super, was very marked in most
cases, and especially so in the case of the
winning entry, that of Mr. I. C. Burgess, of
Irwin. The manured plot, in this case gave
a calculated yield of 84 times that from
the unmanured plot. Besides resulting in
greater bulk, the nutritious character of the
herbage is also improved, not only in the in-
creased growth of clovers, but also in _ the
higher percentage of minerals, especially
phosphates, contained in it.”


From One
Sportsman
to Another!
Mick Simmons
Suggest
A Choice Box
of Cigars
MANUEL GARCIA
Castelares, box of 25 .... 27/-
Perfectos Extra, box of 25 26/-
GOLDEN KEY
Quality de Luxe, box of 25 12/-
„ „ „ box of 50 23/-
„ „ „ box of 10 5/-
Pipe in Case
Famous S.N.L. Extra Quality
Pipe in handsome
Base 10/6, 12/6
Paramount Pipe, in
case 17/6
Pocket Lighter
hj
A boon to
smoker's. Supe-
rior model,
plain nickel fin-
ish . 4/g
Gilt finish,
7/6
Enamel Gasket
of Cigarettes
Country Life Casket, containing
100 Cigarettes, 11/-;
66 Cigarettes 7/6
Pocket Wallet
Superior Tan Leather
Finish 7/6
Others at 5/-, 8/6, and upwards.
“Lightning”
Tobacco Pouch
The most sensible tobacco pouch
made . 4/_ ? 4 /6, 5/6, 7/6
StoUsfy
azor
ROLLS RAZOR
The Safety Incomparable!
Imperial Model, No. 2 Set,
Complete 40/-
(Carriage paid on above goods )
All letters to Box 18 8, P. 0.,
Haymarkei, Sydney
MukSimmons
LIMITED.
HAT MARKET, .. SYDNET,
\
“80-PEEP” PRINT
is obtainable in a
large number of
styles, designs and
colorings. SOLD
BY LEADING
DRAPERS AND
STORES.
THE clothing of young
children for their
playtime hours sometimes
appears a difficult prob-
lem. The happiest solu-
tion is garments easily
made from “80-PEEP”
Print. Despite its gay and
charming colors, it is
quickly washed without
risk. Stands enormous
hard wear, and is truly a
means of economy.
hj
*Looks good-
in good.
for Childrens Wear.
G'lOcmco,'
labric.
Produced by the makers of “Tricoline” —
the equal to silk.
If any difficulty in obtaining, please write:
H. G. RANDELL,
The Grace Building, York Street, Sydney.
jkj
m
m
cX,
BE
Jlq
Every B.E.S. plug, in
every size, can be
cleaned in every part
—Do you realize what
that means ?
It means that the life
of your plug is indefi-
nitely lengthened, for
instead of relegating
a badly functioning
plug to the dust heap,
you can simply clean
away the carbon de-
posit and get thous-
ands more miles of
sweet running .
-Remember, too, B.E.S.
is the product of an All-
Australian Company of
Australian origin , em-
ploying none but Aus-
tralian workmen.
Made and Guaranteed by
AUSTRALIAN SPARK
PLUGS PTY. LTD.
64 Sturt Street
SOUTH MELBOURNE, S.CS.
SPARK PLUG
AUSTRALIAN MADE FOR AUSTRALIAN CONDITIONS
SHADOW SHOWS.
Dii Barry” (United Artists), at Sydney
P aza, is the kind of film that the Americans
have never done well, and apparently are
never going to do well. Mark Twain started
a cheap fashion in the U.S.A. of treating
the facts and figures of European history as
jokes, and it still survives—at any rate in
Hollywood. In “Du Barry” the French
.Revolution is antedated by decades. The
favorite who was a plain woman of 50-odd
vvhen she left London for Paris at the enu
of Louis XVl.’s reign, and was guillotined, is
represented here as perishing at the height
of her youth and beauty. Whatever Louis
X \ . s morals may have been, he had con-
siderable force of character, and an exag-
gerated sense of the dignity of his position.
The producer makes him a Babbitt, who
punches a young guardsman in the chest by
way of greeting arid is punched affection-
ately in return. All very well in the lavatory
of a U.S. golf club, but grotesquely out of
place in the marble halls of Versailles.
Most of the shots suggest neither the
chateau nor the period. The cobbled Place
d’Armes on the Paris side of the palace is
fairly good, but the water-garden beneath the
great terrace where the King and his mistress
revel is as unconvincing as the appearance
of the mob at railings which are half a
mile away from that part of the park. The
interiors are better, but there isn’t a cardinal,
bishop or abbe in a court where clerics were
as common as rococo furniture.
Norma Talmadge looks well as the mil-
liner-mistress, and, contrary to report, proves
to have an effective voice. She makes it
“common” for the occasion, but even so it
is melodious. The intonations are mixed, as
in all U.S. talkies of the kind. Conrad Nagel,
as the Du Barry’s guardsman lover, is Ameri-
can, but his father, Hobart Boswortli, talks
English. The King is American, and some
of the ladies about the Court are English.
Yet in France at that time a standardised
class accent was even more strongly insisted
on than in England. And all the stars rant
like melodrama characters. Altogether a
picture to depress those who were hoping that
future talkies of importance would keep some-
where near the standard of intelligence set
by “Manslaughter,” “Common Clay” and one
of two more.
* * *
“Wild Company” (Fox Movietone), which
was a feature of Sydney Regent's gala re-'
opening, is a homily in talkie form on the
evils and perils of getting in with the wrong
crowd. Save that it is punctuated with revol-
ver-shots and afloat with tears, it might be
screened to good moral advantage at any
Sunday-school. Frank Albertson is the way-
ward offspring of 11. B. Warner and Claire'
McDowell, who are millionaires. He loves
and is loved by the wealthy, beautiful and
virtuous Mildred van Dorn, but for some
inexplicable reason opts for Sharon Lynn,
the gangster’s girl. She uses him as a bait,
and he is caught by the dock, whereas he
should have been returned to the nursery.
(The mixed metaphor is the critic’s humble
tribute to the muddle-headed imbecility of
Frank’s goings-on.) In fairness to the show,
and without anticipating the story, it may
be said that the Judge does, in effect, send
the erring lad back to the nursery. A re-
markable thing about this silly piece is that
the judge’s charge to the jury is sound law—
an oddity on the stage. “If two or more
embark on a felony and somebody is killed
all are guilty of murder.” A salutary bit of
information to broadcast these revolver-
brandishing days.
That fine actor 11. B. Warner hardly con-
ceals his abhorrence of the nonsense he has
to spout. Sharon Lynn is equally accom-
plished in the tricks of the trade, and she too
seems to be ashamed of her part at times.
Also, the producer makes lief sing, which
she can’t do. In a somewhat similar spirit
the millionaires surround their masterpieces
with electric lights, though Rembrandt
painted with candles in his mind. There is
quite a lot of art in this elaborate picture—
fine acting, beautiful photography, skilled
sound-registration—but it is all murdered, m
a manner of speaking.
% ¥ *
“The New Fox Movietone Follies of 1930, '
which began its Melbourne career at the
Regent and has since been removed to Hoyts’
De Luxe, is in its way a masterpiece. If
the producers had laid themselves out to
show just how vulgar, senile and silly an
amusement a talkie can be vat its worst
they could not have succeeded more outstand-
ingly. It is amazingly full of repetitious
action, and no expense or trouble has been
spared to furnish it with all the require-
ments of an ornate entertainment except
intelligence. One of the few oases in a
desert populated mainly by sugar daddies
and back-stage Lotharios is El Brendel’s
comedy. The most disconcerting thing about
the film is that apparently the lessees believe
that there is a class of citizen in this coun-
try stupid enough to appreciate the thing.
# * *
“On Approval” (British and Dominions),
which was pre-shown at Melbourne Majestic,
is a typical Frederick Lonsdale opus suave,
witty and running on theatrical ball-bearings.
One comes away feeling that one has been
as actively in contact with real actors as
if one had been at a Boucicault production.
Perhaps more so, for the cast, etc.,
is as good of its kind as could be
got together. In the hands of Tom_ Walls,
Yvonne Arnaud, Edmund Breon and W ini-
fred Shotter, the laughing satire on English
upper-class life is perfectly implemented. As
with Ben Travers’s “Rookery Nook,” a gooo
many of the typically Lonsdalian mots are
lost in the laughter over the preceding ones,
and actors will soon have to learn so™ o
method of waiting for their laughs at the
right moment or incur the displeasure ol
nlavgoers. Perhaps some ingenious inven-
tor will find a means of using the waves of
mirth to hold up the machinery The piece
appears to drag a trifle in a couple 9 f places,
probably owing to the absence of intervals
The food is tiptop, but one feels the need
of a cigarette between the courses.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to dne subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell’’ 1 or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young Englishman (20), Q’land, wants job in
Islands. Will pay fare out. Refs. —483.
Young man (22), with exp., wants job in Q’land
or N.S.W. as station-hand, groom or boundary-rider.
Refs.—469.
Certificated marine and land enginedriver (38),
wants job anywhere.—449.
Young man, Sydney, wants job, poultry farm or
market garden.—44B.
By unemployed musician, able to teach piano, organ,
brass instruments, job on station or elsewhere;
look after gardens, cut firewood, or any odd jobs.
—543.
Young lady, Vic., wants sewing engagement on
station for two or three weeks. Eight years’ exp.
with leading firms. —531.
To buy, second-hand, first two vols. Churchill’s
“World Crisis” and Vol. XII “Official History cf
Australia in the War.” —513.
To buy biograph, head only, for home use. State
make. Must be cheap.—s4l.
Name and address of retailer stocking Mallijison’s
Oil Dip.—4BB.
Whereabouts of Helen (Seisler) Parker. Adelaide
friend inquiring.—487.
Words of verses beginning “A fire mist and a
planet.”—sol.
Words of poem, probably by Lawson, telling of a
bushman in a city cafe seeing mutton and caper
sauce for the first time.—4s9.
Information Sought.
Who was George Rignold, whose name
appears so frequently in Bulletin Poverty
Point pars ? —l3l.
He was born in England on Oct. 13, 1839.
After considerable stage experience in the
provinces and in London a fine performance
as Caliban in “The Tempest” gave him fame.
In 1875 he toured the U.S. in “Henry V.”
He first visited Australia in 1876, and after
revisiting England and America settled in
this country, leasing a Sydney theatre in
1887. He put on many fine productions,
retired in 1900 and died in 1912. He was
twice married.
(1) What is the position of a tenant of
a furnished flat ( Sydney) with some furniture
of his own installed if the bailiffs ate put
in? Are the tenant's belongings liable to
be sold up as well as his landlord's? (2)
Should the bailiffs sell only the items men-
tioned in the inventory? —i.93.
(1) The furniture could be sold (but not
personal effects up to the value of £2O) in
case of default in rent on the part of the
lessee of the flats. (2) In the case; of a
bill of sale only the articles specified in it
can be taken.
What uses can be made in cabinet work
of (1) onion wood, (2) corkwood, (3) beef-
wood?—24o.
(1.) Onion wood, which is soft and easily
worked and takes a good polish, is suitable
for counters, wainscotting, furniture, doors,
panelling, etc. (2) Corkwood is suit-
able for indoor work, but only when little
strength is required. It is light, very soft
with a close grain, having a small neat
figure when cut on the quarter. It could be
used for panelling, skirtings, mouldings,
sashes and flooring. (3) This is rather open
in the grain, but takes a good polish. So
far it has not been used in the trade on
account of its rarity. It is especially suit-
able for ornamental boxes, brush-backs and
cutlery and scientific-instrument cases.
What are the award rates for electricians
employed on boats in the Australian coastal
trade and on trans-Pacific liners? —9Bo3.
There is no award. The wages on vessels-
carrying only one electrician are usually
about £25 per month. On larger vessels
carrying three or more electricians, such
as those engaged in the trans-Pacific trade, the
wages are, in the case of the chief electrician,
about £32 10s. per month ; second, £24 10s.;
third, £22 10s.; while the rates for junior
electrical engineers are usually about £lB
10s.
(1) Hoiv could I get a job on a whaler
sailing from Hobart? (2) Rates of pay?
(3) Usual duration of voyage? —99B3.
(1) The only co. using Hobart as its
base is Melson and Melson. Apply to their
agents, Macfarlane Bros., 117 Macquarie-
stredt. (2) About £5 per month, with a
bonus on the number of barrels of oil
obtained, which, together with wages, gener-
ally amounts to between £6O and £7O a
voyage. (3) The fleet usually sails from
Hobart during October and returns in
March. There are generally several hun-
dred applications for the few vacancies
available.
When the supply of Mark VI .303 ammu-
nition is exhausted and rifle clubs will be
required to use Mark VII, tvill it be neces-
sary for their members to re-arm themselves
with the short service rifle, or will short,
barrels be made to fit the rifles at present
used? —28.
No prospect of change, as Mark VII
ammunition can be used in M.L.E. (long)
rifles, and no steps have been taken by the
Defence Department with a view to the
conversion of the long rifles.
I have a, Virginian creeper (Ampelopsis
veitchii ) planted next to a brickchimWey, and
although the plant is flourishing and the
suckers appear to be well developed they tvill
not climb• on the bricks. What can I do to
make them stick?.— l24,
Probably there is some substance in the
bricks wliich will not allow the “feet” to
grip. Wash the wall down with lime-water,
and, if this is not effective, attach a frame
of wire-netting to the wall. If the frame
is made in sections it can be removed when
the autumn leavqg have fallen.
What substances can bo added to tar and
bitumen to raise their melting point above
sun temperature? —9963.
Infusorial earth, powdered asbestos or
Portland cement.
The rimu flooring in my house makes a
crunching noise token walked on. Cause
and remedy? —2.
Almost certain to be due to uneven con-
struction of the joists on which the boards
are laid. Only remedy is to lift the floor
and have the joists trued up.
(1) Prospects for youth who desires to
become a veterinary surgeon? (2) What
are the conditions of the veterinary course
at Sydney Uni.? (3) Positions open to
qualified vets.? (4) Salary? —4ls.
(1) Very favorable for the right sort of
man. (2) The course for the degree of
Bachelor of Veterinary Science extends over
four years, during which term and annual
examinations arc held. A matriculation pass
or the Hawkesbury Ag. Coll, diploma are
entrance qualifications. (3) Possession of
a veterinary degree is a passport to several
avenues of employment, governmental and
private, that otherwise could not be entered.
(4) Speaking generally, it would be suffi-
cient to recompense for the acquired know-
ledge. Apart from the salary of a job, there
are generally other sources of income.
How can I become a naturalised Aus-
tralian, and what will it cost me? I am
a Russian and have resided in the U.K. for
six years and in Australia for three years?
—250. . .
Submit evidence of your residence in the
U.K. and in this country to the Inspector,
Investigation Branch, Customs House, Syd-
ney, from whom forms may be obtained. The
fee for a certificate of naturalisation is £3,
and it would also be necessary to pay for
newspaper advertisements.
I intend to go to Port Moresby (Papua)
to take up a commercial position about the
middle of next year. Can you, tell me how,
in the meanwhile, I can become acquainted
with the native dialect which will be most
useful to me in my work there? —278.
In Port Moresby, knowledge of a native
language is not absolutely essential, but
Motuan, the local tongue, might be learnt
with advantage. Dr. Dawes, of the London
Missionary: Society, has published a dic-
tionary and grammar; try L.M.S. offices, 264
Pitt-street, Sydney.
(1) Is there any publication dealing with
shark and dugong fishing, embracing informa-
tion about tanning, oil extraction, the manu-
facture of fertilisers and market pricey? (2)
Any report available as to the possibilities of
the Barrier Reef? (’3) Any co. already on
the job? (A) Where can the gear required to
tackle the business be got, and the cost? (5)
Are any reports or balance-sheets procurable
from people engaged in the business? —180.
(1) See T. C. Roughley’s ‘Catching
Sharks for Profit” and Tressler s Marine
Products of Commerce” (Angus and Robert-
son) The tanning of shark hide de-
scribed by Coombes in the “Leather Trades
Review” (Sydney), July 14, 1928. Tanned
shark hide brings 4s. or ss. a square toot m
Sydney; the oil about 2s. 6d. to 3s. a gallon;
fertiliser about £9 per ton; and dried nns
3s. to 4s. per pound. Market in Sydney. (2j
See publications issued by Commonwealtn
Department of Fisheries,. Federal Govern-
ment Printer, Canberra. (3) Yes. Marine
Industries, Ltd., Pindimar, Port Stephens, is
the best-known. (4) Try leading ship chand-
lers. (5) No. All cos. operating are private
concerns.
(1) How are sea sponges prepared for
market? (2) Sydney buyers of sponges?
(3) How- arc they sold? —330.
(1) The living tissue must be completely
removed by stamping on them or beating
them; they are then suspended over the side
of the boat in the water to macerate for a
day. Then they are once more taken on deck
and stamped upon, washed in tubs of sea
water, and hung up to dry. At the end of
a week they are taken ashore and spread on
the sand to' bake in the sun, after which they
are packed in sacks. (2) G. Ripley and Co.,
321 Pitt-street; Elliott Bros.; Australian
Drug Co. —all Sydney—and a number of
motor-accessory houses deal in them. (3) At
a price for each sponge.
(1) Must persons serving liquor in hotel
bars in Vic. and in charge of a cash register
be registered? (2) Can a female over the
age of 21 serve liquor at evening meals in
a Vic. hotel she not being a registered bar-
maid? (3) Date when registration of bar-
maids ceased in Vic.? —264.
(1) No female except the wife, sister or
daughter of the licensee of the premises, or
of a female partner of the licensee, or the
licensee, being a woman (unless registered
as a barmaid), can be employed in any capa-
city in or about the bar-room of a hotel
during lawful trading hours. (2) Yes, if
she does not take the liquor from the bar-
room. .(3) March 1, 1918.
(1) What experimental work has been
carried out in Australia in connection with
the development of windmills for power pur-
poses? (2) What country is foremost in
the construction and utilisation of wind
motors for power purposes? (3) Any recent
developments abroad in the use of wind-
power? (4) Any wind-power machines other
than water-pumping mills on the Australian
market? —211.
(1) Some of the manufacturing firms have
made experiments with the object of reducing
running costs. (2) Australian makers pro-
duce'mills as efficient as any in the world.
(3) The Institute of Agricultural Engineer-
ing, Oxford Uni., has recently carried out
some experiments reported in its Bulletin
No. 1 (Clarendon Press, 2s. 6d.). (4) Jas.
Alston and Sons, South Melbourne, make
windmills for various power purposes.
(1) Wha t are the qualifications of a court
reporter? (2) Best method of attaining
such qualifications? (3) Any examination?
(4) What are the chances of employments
(5) Pay? —292.
(1) Comprehensive knowledge of English,
including legal terms and shorthand. (2)
By study. (3) The Public Service Board,
Sydney, from time to time arranges for
qualifying examinations. (4) Vacancies are
filled as they occur, (5J Acting-court
reporters, £374 to £478 p.a., and court
reporters from £452 to £G76 p.a.
- Are the tentacles of an octopus used for
sucking Wood, or for holding the victim and
drawing it to beak or mouth, to be devoured?
—312
It is not possible for the tentacles of an
octopus to suck the blood from its victim.
Their function is to seize the prey, after
which it is conveyed to the mouth, where it
is bitten by the powerful, horny jaws and
a poison is injected which quickly kills it.
What is the amount of income received by
the people of Australia from wages and pro-
perty respectively? —lo7.
No official statistics are available, but a
rough estimate prepared by a committee of
economists for 1928-29 gives the distribu-
tion of income in.. Australia as follows:
Wages and salaries under £3OO p.a.,
£300,000,000; wages and salaries over £3OO
p.a., £50,000,000; professional income,
£20,000,000; income from land production,
£80,000,000; income from manufacture and
Wide, £80,000,000; ordinary shares,
£30,000,000; bonds, preference shares and
bank interest (including savings banks),
£55,000,000; rents and mortgages,
£35,000,000. Total, £650,000,000.
(1) Evaporation rate of petrol? (2) How
to prevent the evaporation of petrol in the
tank of a, motor-car? —494.
(1) The average loss of first-grade petrol
in storage in underground tanks where large
stocks are carried under normal conditions
is estimated at k pet cent, each 30 days.
(2) Many motorists use a tiny plug in the
air aperture on the petrol-tanlc cap. This
should prevent the evaporation of gases, but
such devices are apt to cause trouble in the
feed line.
(1) What are adenoids? (2) In what
way do they affect a child's health? (3)
Is the operation for their removal a painful
one? —465.
(1) Growths of spongy tissue at the back
of the nose and throat. (2) They interfere
with lung development. (3) Not very, but
an anaesthetic should be used.
(1) Is it a fact that there are no figures
available of the population of Innisfail (Q.)
nor of the proportion of colored people? And
is the reason for this that they would dis-
prove the contention of the sugar industry
that it is “the bulwark of the White Aus-
tralia policy'■? (2) Is it a fact that J. M.
Fowler, Chairman of the Joint Accounts
Committee appointed in 1922 to inquire into
the sugar industry, gave it as his opinion
that Australia had paid £50,000,000 “for the
pleasure of supporting a local sugar indus-
try” to that date? —4ooa.
(1) The Queensland Statistician’s Office
advises that the proportions of mixed races
,or nationalities in any town are only avail-
able at census periods. The last census was
in 1921. As far as the whole sugar industry
is concerned, evidence recently placed before
the Sugar Inquiry Committee was that 95.1
per cent, of the growers are British and
1.9 per cent, foreigners; and that of all
persons engaged in the industry 89.9 per cent,
are British. Colored labor .is prohibited.
(2) Yes; but he offered no facts to support
liis estimate. On the other side the Sugar
Industry Defence Committee affirms that
from 1915 to date (the embargo period) the
industry has saved Australian consumers at
least £27,000,000.
To prevent bloodshed among lads who sail
deep waters, please settle this argument: (1)
What are the boundaries of the Tasman Sea?
(2) Is it recognised throughout the world or
purely a local name? —486.
Bloodshed on the high seas is a thing Tiie
Bulletin desires to prevent, ft) A consul-
tation between (a) the Religious Editor, (b)
the Protector of Wild Cats, (c) the Fig
Expert, and (d) the Judge of the Aboliars
has produced a formula. Draw a line from
Sydney to Cape Maria Van Diemen and
another from the nethermost tip of Stewart
Island to the southern extremity of Tas-
mania. It is the consensus of opinion of the
legal members of the staff that a person
found on the ocean within -those limits who
made affirmation on oath that he, to the best
of his knowledge and belief, was in the
vicinity of the Tasman Sea would not be
liable to a charge of perjury. (2) Our oldest
Philips atlas (1897) calls it that.
(1) Is N.Q. silky odk a good cabinet wood?
(2) Price in Sydney? (3) Is it likely to
increase in value? (4) What Australia soft-
woods are superior to it for cabinet purposes?
(5) Is there likely to be a.shortage of Aus-
tralian soft-woods suitable for cabinet pur-
poses in the next 20 years? (6) Is there
a demand for N.Q. s.o. for cabinet purposes
in Sydney and Melbourne? —92,
(1) It has a market in Australia, America
and England. (2) In Sydney, 10id. per
super, foot; fd. per super, foot extra for
dressing. (3) Yes, as supplies diminish. (4)
Matter of taste. Maple silkwood ( Flindersia
brayleyana) is more highly esteemed by most
Australian craftsmen. (5) Yes. (6) Yes,
but the price is a big handicap.
How could a boy of 14 learn to become
a marine wireless operator? —243.
Apply School of Wireless, 97 Clarence
street, Sydney, just before the age of 16 has
been reached. The complete course of instruc-
tion takes from 18 to 20 months, the first 12
being by correspondence, and the remainder
by direct attendance at the school. When
the student is 18 years old he may sit for
the P.M.G.’s first- or second-class wireless
certificate, which will qualify him for a posi-
tion as junior wireless officer. The cost of
the complete course is £5O. The school also
trains students for the limited certificate of
radio telephony, which course takes 12
months and costs £25.
I wa n t to get speed out of a motor-cycle.
Which accelerates best —side valves or over-
head?— 390. . „ , . ,
Overhead. They are specially designed
for racing purposes.
Brief Answers.
M.M.: There is no award for station
managers under the N.S.W. Industrial Arbitration
Act. A manager’s annual holidays are a matter for
private arrangement.... Sessions: (1) The-Court may
set aside any judgment entered in the absence of
either party and may order a new hearing. (1)
Costs of court and witnesses only allowed. If not
paid, process of execution may f0110w... .W.J.D.:
French Trade Commissioner, Sydney, says the car
han been otf the market for some years.... F.M.W.:
Tcedium vitae is Latin for “weariness of life”....
A.H.S.: (1) and (2) By day course, 18 months. Two
sessions of six months each at Sydney Tech. Coll.,
Darlinghurst, and intervening six months on stations
during the shearing season. (3) £5 ss. for each
six months at college, No fees for country work.
. ...G.R.: B is bound by his lease and can be
relieved of it only with A’s consent... .W.H.8.:
The “last man and last shilling’’ phrase was coined
by Andrew Fisher, then leader of the Federal Labor
party, in a speech at Colac (Vic.) on Juiy 31, 1914.
... . A.S.: None of the books are of any value. .. .
M. : Write Agriculture Dept., Brisbane, for
banana pamphlets... .W.S.: The words will be found
in “Around the Boree Log,” by John O’Brien.
E.A.B.: On the facts stated it does not appear
to be necessary... .A. J.: No treatment should be
undertaken without the advice of a doctor... .S.L.:
Can’t diagnose without seeing patient. Consult a
chest specialist or apply for treatment at a hospital.
. ...P.P.: Legal tender comprises gold, coinage, Com-
monwealth notes, silver (not exceeding 405.), copper
(not exceeding Is.). To obtain goods by tendering a
cheque knowing it to be valueless is punishable on
the ground of obtaining them by means of a false
pretence. Not to stamp a receipt requiring to be
stamped is an offence. Consult the police. . . .0.8. F.:
Send a 31b. sample to the Q.’land Agriculture Dept,
for analysis, accompanied by a fee of £l. For fur-
ther information write to the Officer in Charge of the
Seeds, Fertilisers and Stock Foods Investigation
Branch, Brisbane... .A.A.: The patent rights for the
manufacture of dry ice throughout Australia are
held by Dry Ice, Ltd., 18 Martin-place, Sydney....
J.E.H.: Tar Stick’s progeny was: 1922, Sticky Pitch,
by Duke Foote; 1924, Glass Stick, by Wallace Isin-
glass ; 1925, Wallace Tar by Wallace Isinglass ; 1926,
Main Stick, by Richmond Main; 1928, Big Stick,
by Richmond Main. None of the progeny have
raced. Sticky Pitch and Glass Stick are now at the
stud W.H.R.: London (1928), 7,849,000 ; Sydney
(1929), 1,238,600 ; Glasgow (1929), 1,06.1,900; Mel-
bourne (1929), 1,018,200 ; Montreal (1927), 989,835;
Birmingham (1928), 968,600....L.G.1i.: See
Williams’s “The First Year at the Piano” (4s. 9d.)
and Stewart’s “Rudiments of Music” (2s. 3d.)....
N. : The guinea was not issued after 1813. The
Jubilee gold pieces of Queen Victoria are worth their
face values, plus 10 per cent. The shilling and
pence are current to-day. . . .U.S.S.: From the Golden
Downs Pastoral Co., 83 Flinders-street, Adelaide.
Not necessary to be a shareholder. The co. gives
preference to its shareholders when purchasing wool.
. ...P.C.: (1) Estimated world population is
1,918,380,000. Details of sexes not known. (2)
Population of Australia at June 30, 1930, was
6,438,999; males, 3,287,995; females, 3,151,004....
H.M.: After the long lapse of time the present
holders of the lands would probably claim a title
by prescription—long-continued possession. The
search into titles would be a long and expensive
business and probably would prove fruitless. .. .
D. : (1) The father takes all. (2) The bachelor
brother having died intestate it would be necessary
to have his estate formally administered before a
transfer of the land could be made. .. .Curious: (1)
Various alkalis destroy hair temporarily. (2) and
(3) From 2s. 6d. upwards at all chemists. (4)
Depends upon the individual, Some people react
unfavorably to drugs which are harmless to others.
(5) A week or so. (6) The make you mention is a
good one, but try it cautiously... .A.L.8.: The
engravings have no value... .W.G.F.: The regulation
size of a ping-pong table is 9ft. by sft. The net
is 7in. high. Mick Simmons, Ltd., Sydney, can
supply materials and rules... .T.W.F.: Write to the
Registrar, Melbourne Uni A.R.: From N.S.W.
Wool and Fur, Ltd., Dalton House, 115 Pitt-street,
Sydney... .A. W.: Fosters, Ltd., seedgrowers, 192
Sussex-street, Sydney. .. .W.L.L.: Robertson and
Mullens, 107 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne. .. .W.J.:
The loganberry is a hybrid between the raspberry
and the blackberry. Propagation is by suckers....
R.A.F.: (1) £6 ss. per w 7 eek of 48 hours. (2)
Write N.S.W. Govt. Insurance Office, Asbestos House,
Barrack and York streets, Sydney. (3) Write
Family Endowment Dept., Macquarie-street, Sydney.
.. . .W. 8.: The tree is probably attacked by bacterial
blight. Send a few leaves to the Biologist, Agri-
culture Department, Sydney... .A.D.S.: It can be
done only by a competent analyst... .C.E.: Get list
from Under Sec., Chief Secretary’s Department,
Macquarie-street, Sydney... .N.S.W. and A.RaP.:
Maoriland has a lot of unemployment and it would
be foolish to go there without a definite promise
of employment A. 8.; England transported
criminal's to the Virginian plantations from 1619
until the revolt of the American colonies in 1776.
. ...G.P.: “Sadism,” meaning a form of sexual per-
version, is derived from the Marquis de Sade, a
French writer, who was guilty of many vicious
practices and wound up in a lunatic asylum....
E. : It has met with a fair measure of success,
but does not teach as well as the older method....
G. : Write Under-Secretary, Dept, of Markets and
Transport, Canberra. .. .F.G.J.: Investigation has
proved that there is no danger. See “Industrial
Health,” by Kober and Hayhurst (1924 edition), also
statement by E. J. Ristori, Associate Member Insti-
tute of Chemical Engineers, in “Mirror” of April
17, 1928 Kyogle: We use “Benedick” because the
Shakspearean character in “Much Ado” bore that
name. The use of “Benedict,” however, is common.
.... F.N.: The Govt. Entomologist has identified the
specimen as the saw-toothed grain beetle, an intro-
duced insect which is a' world-wide pest of grain,
flour and starch D. J.D.: Sydney Tech, tuition by
correspondence in printing is restricted to apprentice
and journeymen compositors residing at distances
which preclude attendance at the central college....
8.E.5.: In 1927-28 (latest figures available), Vic. pro-
duced 230,348 tons of potatoes from 77,649 acres;
Tasmania produced 138,837 tons from 44,359 acres.
Total Commonwealth figures were 470,041 tons from
163,231 acres W.Q.: The principle of one elector
one vote was adopted in N.S.W. in 1894, and that of
compulsory enrolment in 1922. The franchise was
extended to women in 1902, and was exercised for
the first time at a State election in 1904....
H. : (1), (2) and (3) Write to the Administrator,
Norfolk Island. (4) Banana plants reach fruit-
producing stage in two years... .H.K.K.: Write Fords,
Birkenhead, S.A A.M.1.: “Hawkesbury Herald,”
published at Richmond, and “Windsor and Richmond
Gazette,” published at Windsor (N.5.W.)... .M.M.:
Jack Lindsay is Norman Lindsay’s eldest son. He is 30
year old. He has published nearly 20 books, mostly
verse and translations of the classics. Present address,
5 Bloomsbury-square, London, W.C.1... .W.C.H.: See
Brassey’s “Naval and Shipping Annual” or Jane’s
“Fighting Ships,” available most public libraries....
(Many others mailed.)


jkjk
/ of
<Mirrored Beauty
a fisherman's paradise
'TDROM Lake Taupo in the North—the heart of
the Thermal region—to the great Lakes District
of the South, New Zealand is scattered with lakes
of wonderful loveliness . . . and great fishing!
High mountain peaks, richly massed bush and ferns
of huge size reflect in still mirrors of water. Taupo
is recognised as one of the finest trout fishing
grounds in the world, and almost every lake and
river in New Zealand is well stocked. Trout season
begins in October; Salmon in February.
Come to
NEW ZEALAND
FILL IN THIS COUPON
and post it addressed to—N.Z.
Govt. Office, Martin Place, Sydney.
? lease send me illustrated Booklets and
full information about New Zealand.
Name
Address ..-
SBIA
fora DIFFERENT
Holiday
jkjk
m
m
IS
CO
. . ;
m
I'V, >-
1A
Plots and Old Lace.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD’S TALE OF SYDNEY IN THE FIRST DAYS OF
THE GREAT WAR.
THE Street of Magic in the first year
or two of the war was a movable feast
of uniforms, recruits, brass bands,
voluble politicians loving more than ever the
sound of their own voices, women collecting
for some fund or other —Servia Day, Bel-
gian Day, Strawberry Day, Wattle Day,
Any Day and Every Day; many of the
women glad of the circumstance that could
combine charity and the losing of convention
so that the collector might meet a Strange
Man. Here was seen charity uncovering a
multitude of sins. Patriotism raged here —
noisy, hysterical, often alcoholic; patriotism
rising to the great heights of sacrifice, how-
ever vicarious; still rising until it seemed to
submerge the continent in its splendid emo-
tion, as the last whisky set the patriot’s
tear-ducts working overtime.
In the minds where burned the sacred
fire of the real love of country—merely the
conversion of mother-love grown beyond sac-
rifice for the individual—the strength of the
love itself had made its slaves tongue-tied, as
it had given the shallow and the mean a new
vocabulary. Hucksters and politicians be-
came doubly vocal; the patriotic trader
hurrahed the departing soldier with one
voice, and with the other instructed a leap
in prices to catch the easy money of the
war and give the departing soldier’s wife
and mother something to take their minds
off the pangs of separation. Nobility of
thought and phrase was everywhere, and in
his shop the noble draper diverted the mind
from the waste of lead to the high cost of
linen.
But the draper’s anthem did not have a
monopoly of the people’s auditory nerve, as
the singers had no monopoly of the public
legs. Patriots cornering flour and cheese;
patriots shipping rabbit-skins by parcel post
while comforts for the men in the trenches
could not find transport; patriot newspapers
shrieking for the arrest of all men of enemy
name, Australian-born or not, and passing
over big advertisers of enemy birth; patriots
of inferior position in Government service
clamoring for the internment of men of enemy
name whose villainy consisted in being the
Public Service patriot’s superiors; patriot
professional men calling for the arrest of
brother-professional men of enemy name be-
cause these had larger practices; soldier-
patriots whom the enemy would never see
even in retreat making their jobs appear
necessary by joining the ranks of the witch-
doctors and smelling out the plot and the
plotter. When we come to think of it,
,Comic Opera was invented from War.
The patriot was everywhere the price of
entertainment was dear enough to be re-
spectable. In the Caravanserai he soothed
the sufferings of the soldiers by giving him-
self large mixed' grills, saving part of his
country from the Ilun by eating it himself,
and at short intervals he became a prop
and stay of the Empire by roaring that Brit-
ish anthem which was made in Hanover,
and continued roaring when he found that
fermented and spirituous liquors had so
affected his hearing that to himself his voice
sounded like Caruso’s.
Tom Whaley enjoyed the Tartuffian humor
of it all ; he and Porter had borne the dis-
comfort of nearness to a very alcoliolically-
noisy party, whose loyalty had called the
grillroom to its feet three times between
the oysters and the cheese. “A man has
to do it to escape being conspicuous,” said
Porter, irritably resettling himself after the
third roaring of bad rhymes:
“Confound their pol-i-tiqs,
Frustrate their kna-vish tricks,
On Thee our hopes vve fix”
“Who are the disturbers of the public
peace, Tom?”
“The big fat chap with the loyal red nose
is Hooper, who loves the Freetrade end of
Empire most because he’s an importer, or,
father, an indentor. The others are his
business cronies—agents and importers. The
chap in uniform is a soldier for home de-
fence—lntelligence department—a captain.”
“• ‘The word captain was an excellent good
word once’; and has he all the departmental
intelligence, or are there others?”
“There are others of about equal strength.
They’re at it again !. ... And here’s Gus
Nelson.. . . Take a seat here, Gus, or you’ll
have to sit on the stairs.”
Nelson, a slight, middle-aged man with a
face out of Norway, but wind-and-sun-
beaten as an old man of the plains, laughed
as he took the vacant chair.
“What’s on?” he asked. “Presentation of
blue ribbon to champion Devon bull, or are
they politicians singing for the soldiers’
vote?”
“No—merely trade patriotism. Get ’em
going on your Captain Hansen, Gus.”
“Who’s Captain Hansen?” asked Porter.
“Why, Gus is ‘Captain Hansen.’ ”
From behind them came the bitter deter-
mination of a hatter who was overstocked.
“I’ll never trade with Germany again,”
said he. “Never! They’re disloyal—dis-
loyal, that’s it!”
“ Vaiter /”
The loud Teutonic accents of “Captain
Hansen,” otherwise Gus Nelson, suspended
the talk at the noisy table as if it had been
cut off with a sharp knife.
“V aiter,” said Captain Hansen to the
server, now at his elbow —“I don’t like der
noise. You shall bringk me some coldt
meadt und bier.”
There was a stir at the next table; the
waiter, in the presence of that accent, out
of season since the war started, paused
irresolute as if to debate whether he should
merely have “Captain Hansen” arrested or
serve him some cold cyanide with prussic-
acid lager.
But “Captain Hansen” was a martinet
apparently. The pause of irresolution did
not escape him. He called louder “Vaiter —
don’dt I tell you you shall bringk me some,
coldt meat undt bier undt salats? You tink
I vas Yerman —hell? I vas Captain Hansen
of my ship that shall be at Pyrmont, vaiting
for veat cahgo vicli I shall take to Rotter-
dam for der brave Allies. Bringk me my
meadt.”
The name of Rotterdam was enough; the
loyal importers at the next table hastily and
excitedly gave various advice to the man in
uniform—who advanced to “Captain Han-
sen.”
“You say you are a Norwegian. That will
have to be proved. lam an Intelligence
officer.”
“Officer of intelligence?” said the mas-
querader. “All officers shall be officer of
intelligence or he shall not be officer.”
He smiled innocently enough, but the smile
annoyed the officer, as the alleged Norwegian
had intended.
“I don’t believe you are a Norwegian,”
said the officer. “Wheat ships for the
Allies don’t go to Rotterdam. “You must
come with me to the barracks.”
“I shall go to der barragks, undt for vat?”
said “Hansen” excitedly. “Shall it be my
rewardt for earryingk veat for der Allies
that I shall be take to der yalc?”
“It’s no use creating a scene,” said the
officer; “I have a file of men at call.”
“I shall not make scenery,” said the mas-
querader. “I am not artist. Leadt on, then ;
it shall be at your rrisgk. Let us go to der
burkglars at your call with the file undt
der yimmy.”
li'is dignity offended by “the file” having
become the file and jemmy of a burglar, the
officer led the way from the grill-room, as
Porter interposed.
“Why, it’s ridiculous!” he said to the
officer and the large importer. “It’s a joke.
This is Mr. Nel” ——
“I am Captain Hansen, of der Norwegians
barque. Undt I see this beesness right troo,
undt I desire you to come mit me as vit-
nesses.”
Frank Porter laughed. “Right you are,
Captain,” he said. “Mr. Whaley and I will
join the procession.”
In the street the officer apparently decided
that his file of men was not necessary; he
called a taxi and deposited “Captain Hansen”
and the large importer and himself therein ;
and, Frank Porter engaging another taxi,
the little procession raced to the barracks.
There the officer and the large importer,
with the air of one doing some service to
the State, handed over “Captain Hansen” and
his friends to a lieutenant, who admitted
them to a room and closed the door. In the
interval the captain and the horrified im-
porter interviewed a colonel and told their
dreadful tale.
There was a lady already in the room that
gave temporary imprisonment—or shelter, as
the event should decide—to Frank Porter
and to Whaley and the joker, who, by pre-
tending that Norway was his home-country,
seemed in danger of being made a German
against his will. As the door closed on the
officer who had technically arrested him,
Nelson roared again at the injustice of inter-
ference with himself —“Captain Hansen of
der Norvegian barque earryingk veat to der
Allies” —and laughed as he became Gus
Nelson again.
Then the lady spoke and in German. She
was a frail little woman on the wrong side
of sixty; she realised the description of “a
decayed gentlewoman”; she was dressed in
black and wore a round collar of white lace
fastened with a shell-cameo of ancient design.
Nelson, embarrassed by his ignorance of
any language but English, excepting the
“pidgin” of the islands, contradicted his
broken German-English by saying he didn’t
understand.
“I thought you spoke German,” said the
faded Avoman, speaking English with a lin-
guist’s carefulness. “I understand you, too,
are arrested.”
“Are you, Madame?”
“Yes. Because I am a teacher of German,
that is all. But I teach French and Italian
also. And now I have failed to be in time
to report to the police,”
“But what could they bring against you?”
“Nothing but my name. I am as harm-
less as you see. I teach German to the
opera-singers and others at the Melbourne
Conservatorium until lately; then I come
here because I can begin without the pre-
judice of war, and I have to report once in
one week. But I am ill and the time passed
over a day. So here I am brought this
afternoon to explain. And I have nothing to
explain except that I was ill and nobody would
help me by taking a message. It is not my
fault my country is at war. What have I
to do with fighting or with plots?”
“They let the big fellow trading with the
enemy get away with it and harass this poor
old woman,” said Nelson to his friends.
“Why, she’s about as harmless as the little
seamstress in Dickens’s story—what y’ call
it? ‘Tale of Two Cities’ —guillotined with
Sydney Carton. I’ll put in a word for her.”
“Seems to me you’ll have to put in a
lot of words for yourself,” said Frank
Porter, as tbe door opened, admitting the
officer who had arrested Nelson, the large
loyalist importer and an older man, his face
seamed by experience as if experience were
surgeons’ knives. Despite these marks of
life, or maybe by reason of them, there was
kindness in the face, as if he had learned
the lesson of life —'which is kindness based
on the knowledge that life is often cruel
even to the enemy.
He looked at the three men and the old
woman, and, saying to the captain, “Bring
Captain Hansen in first—his friends may
come if he wants them,” lie returned to his
own room. Obeying his words more than
the gesture of the officious captain, Nelson
and his friends followed, and Nelson was
motioned to the front of the table before the
seated colonel.
“He said he is Captain Hansen and that
he is taking wheat for the Allies to Rotter-
dam, sir,” said the captain.
“Rotterdam, eh? A queer place for Allied
wheat. What have you to say?”
Even then Nelson persisted with his queer
joke. “Captain Hansen, yah,” said lie.
“Mein ship is ofer at Pyrmont loading
veat.”
“I know your ship,” said the Colonel, grin-
ning. “The Hardship, isn’t it?”
“What?”
( Continued on page 42.)


Made in Australia
A BOVE is illustrated one of the longest one-piece Conveyor Belts ever made in Australia. It is 1377 feet in
length. When completed the diameter of the roll was Bft. 7£in., and it weighed 13,500 pounds. The
belt was built for the Coppee Company (Great Britain), Limited, of Newcastle, where this Company put the belt
into service conveying coke, as a part of their recent installation at the Broken Hill Proprietary Company’s Works.
The Goodyear Mechanical
Goods Plant at Granville
(N.S.W.) is equipped with the
very latest machinery and
methods for the making of
Conveyor and Elevator Belts.
Whatever your conveying
problems are, Goodyear can
supply the Conveyor Belt that
will reduce your “belt cost per
ton foot.” Let Goodyear help
you specify the best belt for
carrying coke, slag, limestone,
crushed shale, lump coal, or
for lighter and less abrasive
materials such as wood chips,
sand, soda ash or cement —
Goodyear builds a belt to best
handle the work to be done.
For all types of Elevator belt
service, Goodyear can supply
a belt that from the innermost
ply to the cover contains the
highest quality of materials
and workmanship, and is built
to give long trouble-free service.
Below are listed the distributors throughout Australia who can supply Goodyear
Belting, and who will gladly help you correctly handle your belting problems: —
New South Wales:
AUSTRAL ENGINEERING SUPPLY
CO., LTD., 490-92 Kent Street,
Sydney.
H. P. GREGORY & CO., LTD.,
74 Clarence Street, Sydney.
JAMES MUNDAY & COMPANY,
230 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Victoria:
WILLIAM ADAMS & CO., LTD.,
521-23 Collins Street, Melbourne.
JAMES MUNDAY & COMPANY,
LTD., 394-96 Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne.
South Australia:
HARRIS, SCARFE, LTD., Grenfell
Street, Adelaide
Western Australia:
HARRIS, SCARFE & SANDOVERS,
LTD., Hay Street, Perth.
WM. ADAMS & CO., Ltd., Murray
STREET, Perth.
Queensland:
HOEY, FRY & CO., LTD.,
170 Edward Street, Brisbane.
GOO D
EAR
CONVEYOR AND ELEVATOR BELTING
Made in Australia.
30-80. K


SALE OF STATE FARM
HOME HILL, QUEENSLAND
(57 Miles South of Townsville).
‘T’ENDERS are invited for the purchase of the State Farm at Home Hill, situated
in the Inkerman Irrigation area, Burdekin River, together with all improve-
ments, including 34 acres under sugar-cane crops, premises, goodwill, livestock,
stock in trade, implements, furnishings, fittings, machinery and chattels, etc., as a
going concern.
The farm has an area of 206 acres of freehold land, with a sugar-cane assignment
of 72 acres gross, 54 acres net. TENDERS will close with the Secretary for
Public Lands, Brisbane, at NOON on SATURDAY, 17th JANUARY, 1931.
Tender forms and full particulars are obtainable on application to the
Secretary, Land Administration Board, Executive Buildings, Brisbane; the
Under Secretary, Department of Agriculture and Stock, Brisbane; or from the
Land Agents at Townsville, Cairns, Innisfail, Bowen, Mackay and Bundaberg.
C. W. HOLLAND, Secretary, Land Administration Board.
Department of Public Lands, December, 1930.
LEFEVER NITRO SPECIAL HAMMERLESS
Igpg
LEFEVER NITBO SPECIAL
PRICE
£7/15/-
WONDERFUL VALUE IN DOUBLE-BARREL GUNS.
O.K.’D AND PURCHASED IN QUANTITIES BY U.S. NAVY.
A Lefever Gun is made to shoot right, and throws a pattern superior to many guns much
higher in price.
The lock was designed by the best gunmakers in America, and gunsmiths the country over
say.it is the best designed lock ever put m a gun. The first lock was snapped over 77,000
times and the first Lefever Nitro Special Gun was fired about 10,000 times without a break.
A Lefever Gun won the World’s Championship at the Olympic Games in London
The name Lefever on a gun has stood for service and durability for 50 years
The best gun ever offered for anything near the price. Made in 12, 16 20 and 410 °-au°-e
“WHOEVER SAW A BROKEN LEFEVER?” * “
PTY. LTD
THE GUN PEOPLE,
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The Rosehill club had the date for the
last pre-tax meeting in Sydney. Results
were very much in favor of the bookmakers,
whose job at the end of the day was there-
fore not to calculate how much they had to
hand to the State Treasury by way of tax--
it is to be 10 p.c. on winning wagers and
stakes —but how much they had won.
Opinion is divided as to how much the tax
will yield and what will be the sequel—
whether the licensing of s.p. shops, which
would be a calamity, or the installation of
“straightout,” “place” and “doubles” totes,
which the situation calls for. One thing is
certain—the Government will soon find that
the bagmen don’t hold nearly as much as
it bargains for. Imagination has embellished
the operations of certain well-advertised
bookmakers and punters.
Reported a bit lame at the beginning of
the week, and with a bad position at the
barrier, Pavilion drifted from sixes to four-
teens for the Dundas Handicap. She was
at a much shorter price for the Villiers
Stakes, a harder race to win. The Walker
stable had another engaged—Venetian Lady,
who was at tens. Pavilion, nevertheless, won
almost as easily as she did at Warwick
Farm, traversing the seven furlongs in lmin.
25fsec.; second to her was the pony Ran-
worth (25 to 1) and third Killarney. Green-
iine (favorite at 9 to 2) was a good fourth,
just ahead of Venetian Lady and Zeeland —-
also in Walker’s stable —and Aorangi was
noticed putting in good work in the straight
after trailing the field of 23 conspicuously
for a couple of furlongs.
The Corinthian Cup produced a good finish
between Celtic and Student Prince (joint
favorites at 7to 2). Celtic was the biggest
horse in the field, and his weight-carrying
capacity stood to him over the last furlong;
A. D. Allen was his pilot. Shrill Trill (4
to 1) was third, so punters were well on
the spot.
The result of the December Handicap was,
however, a facer for those who try to pick
them. The demand was mostly for Bawn-na-
Glas (7 to 4), Spearshot (5 to 1), Leisure
Hour and Dalston (sixes) ; few gave a
thought to Star d’Or, yet he beat them all,
though Dalston might have reversed posi-
tions with him if the rider of that horse
had been a bit more energetic. New Sweet
(8 to 1) was a fast-finishing third. Star
d’Or is an old gelding by Sunstar, winner
of the English Derby in 1911; he has a
Williamstown Cup to his credit but it is a
long ti,me ago. He has been racing at “the
ponies” without success, and a former pony
jockey—Stanton—had the mount.
The Carlingford Mile was a good betting
race and produced a spirited finish, in wdiicli
Traymobile (5 to 1) was a bit too good at
the weights for Just Gold (G to 1) and
Gleaner (5 to 1). He was ridden by Jimmy
Munro, just back from Germany after a
successful season there.
* * * :J:
Walker, the Randwick trainer, has a
stableful of good horses, and his Pavilion
(7st. 91b.) and Venetian Lady (9st. lib.)
are going to be awfully hard to beat in the
A.J.C. Villiers Stakes on Saturday. How-
ever, if the going is good, this Page expects
Spearman (Bst. 31b.) to beat Walker’s pair
and everything else, though some people con-
sider a mile too short for him. Old Aorangi
(Bst. 31b.) looks better than he has done for
a long time and may furnish a surprise, par-
ticularly if the track is heavy. In any case
he should win at the Christmas meeting.
Fancies:—
December Nursery : Gloriole ; next, Ranier.
Villiers: Spearman, 1; Pavilion, 2;
Aorangi, 3. Tote bet and wet-weather tip:
Aorangi.
Trial Handicap : Coolmint; next, Porneit.
Highweight Handicap : Valparaiso ; next,
Sir Duninald.
Holiday Handicap: Eton Blue; next,
Lord Eudorus.
* * * *
After all, racing has not slumped so much
in and around Melbourne. There was a
record meeting at Mornington, and the fix-
ture at Moonee Valley in aid of the V.R.C.
Benevolent Fund attracted an excellent
attendance, though, complimentary tickets
being “off,” many so-called patrons of
sport, especially politicians, were conspicu-
ous by their absence.
Horoscope captured the Hurdle Race
rather comfortably. F. E. Shillabeer gave
his pals the “office” that Horoscope was a
good thing, and the Absurd gelding touched
6 to 4; but admirers of Burramain rallied
round her so valiantly that the daughter of
Burrabadeen went out in equal demand with
him at twos. Colliding with Wang-Ka-Pang
as the barrier lifted, Burramain unseated
Wraight. Remounted, she chased the field,
but, of course, could not bridge a gap of two
furlongs. Nar Ron finished third, half a
neck behind Sir Gleam. He lost much ground
at several flights, and is labelled for an
early victory. Sir Gleam and Nar Ron were
bred by the late Arthur Crozier, whose widow
went racing on Saturday for the first time
since her bereavement.
Merson Cooper, a member of the V.A.T.Q.
committee, captured the juvenile handi-
cap with Millette, -who is by Crow-
dcnnis from Brakette, a daughter of
Traquette, winner of the Maribyrnong
Plate of 1915. This is a wonderful
galloping family. Simmerette, great-grand-
dam of Millette, produced Ettefred (to
George Frederick) and Salatis (to Shep-
herd King). Ettefred, like her half-sister
•Traquette, annexed a Maribyrnong Plate,
while Salatis, with Bob Lewis up, landed
the Futurity Stakes of 1923. All these de-
scendants of Simmerette came from the Or-
leigh Park stable at Flemington, now pre-
sided over by J. G. Heywood, whose brother,
P. T., has gone into retirement as a landed
proprietor in the Albury district.
Millette’s owner and his friends did not
forget to back her. The brown filly’s price
contracted to 4 to 1: she went out in only
half a point less demand than Headman and
Burbot, who were joint favorites. With
apprentice R. Bones atop, Millette led
throughout. She swerved on entering the
NO SPECIALIST NEED APPLY.
DI: “No, I had to turn Harold down. He can’t golf or play tennis or even drive a car.”
VI: “Oh, hut you know he- can swim beautifully.”
DI: “Yes. But I felt I didn’t want a husband that ought to be kept in an aquarium.”
straight, but scored by a substantial margin
from Headman, with Wildrake third. < The
succeeding event, a Welter Plate, also went
to one of the pillars of the Vic. turf. Umber-
tana, sent out a red-hot favorite, had his
rivals well settled at the home turn, and
Duncan was able to take a disdainful glance
at his immediate pursuers, Caravena and
Prince Rooka. The winner is trained by
Jack Holt for J. M. Niall, of the V.R.C.
committee. Umbertana, formerly owned by
P. H. Lock, is by Salatis from a mare by
The Welkin. There are more important
triumphs ahead of Umbertana, who has en-
gagements in the Christmas and Standish
Handicaps.
• ••••#
Sartaress, backed down to favoritism (at
fours) for the middle-distance Fund Handi-
cap, came at the right end and won by a
narrow margin from the undependable Glaive,
who was advantaged by a lucky run on the
rails. K. Benyon, owner-trainer of Sartar-
ess, is a son of V. G. Benyon, who won the
Australian Steeplechase of 1919 with Algous.
Atoning for his Sandown Park failure a fort-
night before. Port Nelson (2 to 1) led home the
Highweight Handicap field; Bob Lewis, who
celebrated his 52nd birthday recently, rode
him with great vigor. Lewis was out of
action with a fractured collarbone during
the spring meetings. His vitality is amazing,
Divisions of the Welter Purse went to
Buckeen (6 to 1) and Broz Boy (7 to 1)
respectively. These were the longest priced
winners, and McShortodds found it impos-
sible to balance the ledger.
* *
For Mentone on Saturday:—
Brush Steeplechase: Appellant; next,
Scudalong.
Mentone Handicap: Reputed King; next,
Glaive.
* * *
“Hotham”: The Queensland-bred Mollison
was the attraction at the recent dispersal
sale in Melbourne of E. M. Pearce’s racing
string. In spite of the times Mollison
brought 1100 guineas, which, considering that
it is a gelding and has proved a bitter dis-
appointment to its connections of late, must
be accounted a fair price. The buyer was
W. Tindall, of Sydney, who is confident he
can still make something out of the five-year-
old which once gave such promise of turn-
ing out a champion. Eight others realised
1317 guineas, Spanish Galleon and. Pouter
bringing 400 each. Gallopade was passed
in. at 900 guineas, and eight others who
failed to reach the reserve were also pulled
cut.
* * * *
“Dan Patch”: American and Australian
followers of the “Bed Hots” were staggered
to hear the other day that Hanover’s Bertha
had trotted the first heat of the Futurity
Stakes at Lexington, Kentucky, in 2min.
dead, and that after half an hour’s messing
about at the post. It was' no fluke either,
for she took the second heat easily in 2min.
ljsec. without being pressed. Bred at the
famous H'anover Farm, she is by Peter Yolo
from Miss Bertha Dillon, her sire being rated
at 2.2 and the dam half a second worse. The
technical record for the mile is Tilly Brooke’s
lmin. 59sec. made in 1924, but that was
none in an exhibition spin against a solitary
competitor.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Canadian Harry Marshall, billed to box
Bobby Blay at the Leichhardt Stadium,
could not be found early in the week, so Joe
Atchison, of Newcastle, stepped into the
overseas scrapper’s shoes. Atchison (9.5)
looked too husky for Blay (9.2). Apparent
fear of the other fellow’s reputation kept the
Novocastrian from fighting his hardest, how-
ever, and Blay won in seven rounds, when
the referee decided Atchison had had enough.
!■: * * *
Herman Bundren (11.3 j), America’s
latest middleweight to show at Sydney Sta-
dium, looked a giant against Jack Cairoil
(10.8 i) on Saturday night. But Carroll’s
speedy attack soon brought the inches-taller
Bundren down to his size, and Australia's
foi mer welterweight champion clouted so
many lefts home to head or body that he
won the first seven rounds. Herman's
heavier artillery often threatened to knock
Jack endways. His weighty wallops were wild,
however, and no damage was done until early
in the eighth, when a lusty left, well below
the belt, dropped Carroll. The fallen fighter
doubled-up, and Bundren was disqualified.
The Ins and Outs
The West Indies again found Grimmett a
troublesome hurdle in the first Test at Adel-
aide ; nevertheless they got 296, taking
all day Friday and part of Saturday morning
on the job. Bartlett (84) and Roach (56)
batted in Test-match form, and were helped
by a dogged 53 from Grant. Lefthander F.
R. Martin also played a stylish knock for
39. Grimmett’s bag was 7 for 87. Australia’s
stock slumped when Bradman, Jackson and
Ponsford went for 64, but a fine stand by
Kippax and McCabe saved the day. McCabe
finally went for an invaluable 90, and after
Woodfull had been run out Fairfax played
out time with Kippax, the latter contribut-
ing a classic 118, to which he added 28 on
Monday. Our men were then 45 on with four
wickets in hand. Francis, Constantine and
Griffith, all fast bowlers, divided the wickets.
•I* *i'
The return Queensland-N.S.W. match at
Sydney Cricket Ground saw the bowlers on
top in the first innings of each side. Queens-
land followed their huge score in Brisbane
with a somewhat abject 166, to which Good-
win (62) and Oxenham (53) were the chief
contributors; the fine bowling of Hooker
(2-31) and lefthander Hunt (5-37) was
too much for the others. Abo. Gilbert
(4-44} and Oxenham (2-21) dismissed
N.S.W. for 143, Fingleton top-scoring with
a fortunate 56. Queensland did better next
time, reaching 369, Bensted contributing 92,
and Goodwin another nice knock for 64.
Hooker was again dangerous, taking 4 for
63, while Hunt collected another couple of
wickets. With 393 set them to win, the
Welshmen raised 212 for 1 wicket by Satur-
day night. It was drearily slow, and the
Queensland catching was abominable.
Fingleton was at last disposed of for 71, and
Bill, dropped several times, was not out with
93 at stumps, partnered by Love with 32.
Rain prevented play on Monday, so Queens-
land won on the first innings.
* -Jr- * *
“W. G. Snort”: The war on the Board
of Control front is intensifying, and the
Bradman mystery is gaining in murkiness.
A few days ago most of the N.S.W. mem-
bers of the Australian. XI and llurwood. of
Queensland, on their way to the first Test
in Adelaide, were handed their deferred pay
of £l5O. This is subject to “good behavior”
on the j;our, and a significant omission was
made in the case of Don Bradman. Not
that there have been any charges against the
blameless youth from Bowral that he has
painted any of the towns he visited red; it
would seem that he is in the position of
the old-time army subaltern* whose sword
was put “on the peg” in the orderly-room
pending the explanation to the colonel as to
■why he kissed the sentry when returning
to barracks at 2 a.m. No harm at all, but
a little breach of King’s Regs.—in Don's
case an apparent infringement of the B. of
C.’s 49 articles.
* * =!•' *
“Bundamba”: A useful sort must be Joe
Richardson, of Toowoomba. Playing for the
Darling Downs city against Ipswich the
other day, he banged up two centuries (110
run out and 100 n. 0.) in the one afternoon.
The second century was made against time,
and enabled Toowoomba to get home by 2
runs; Richardson hit it up in 37 minutes,
taking 32 off one over. Both sides are power-
ful country combinations, and included
several State representatives.
❖ ❖ * *
“Gabba”: Old Queenslanders will be in-
terested in the return of Dr. (“Robbie”)
Macdonald to his native Australia. Mel-
bourne born, he came early to Queensland,
and for some years was one of the mainstays
of the State ? s batting. A solid defensive
batsman, he relied chiefly on a style of for-
ward play which has now vanished from
cricket, but he made many notable scores in
inter-State matches and against the visiting
British sides. With Leicestershire affilia-
tions, he departed to the Midland county
some years ago, and, in addition to playing
cricket for his adopted home, he took over
the honorary secretaryship. This he held
for years, and no Australian team visiting
England in his time is ever likely to forget
the warm-hearted reception and hospitality
their popular compatriot always had wait-
ing for them.
(Continued on page 33.)
The battle for the Dunn Shield, which
carries the N.S.W. athletic championship,
ended in a win for the holders, Randwick-
Kensington, with 94 points. University was
second with 81. The feature of the meeting
was the sprinting of Jim Carlton, who took
the 100 in 9 4-ssec. and the 220 in 22sec.
l-10sec. without being pushed. In many of
the events a following wind ruled out the
possibility of times being officially accepted
as records.


usfralia’s
/'J\rst"
imndmill
was erected over one hundred years ago, about
forty miles south of Sydney, It consisted of
a stone tower and wooden wheel and would
cost as much as a cottage to erect to-day.
THE ENCLOSED GEAR
Self-Governing, Self-Oiling
BILLABONG MILL
is now Australia’s first mill and is constructed
of the finest steel and iron at a price within
the reach of farmer, pastoralist and
orchardist.
Always safe in a big blow.
The “Billabong” is safe in a big blow. The
automatic Governor and Speed-regulator slows
the Mill down to a safe pumping speed and
stops the Mill altogether in a gale.
Oil once a year.
That is all the oiling it requires.
The Gears are double and extra
strong and work in an enclosed
gearbox, which is dust-, rain-
and frost-proof.
Write for free “Billabong” Book-
let, and for information and
prices for Mills, Pumps, Trough-
ing and Water Piping.
m
m
Pif.
X-
H
; l
SjS£
tt\
DANKS •
John Danks C son Pfy lt<?
324-330 Pi'fhS!* • PAJENJEES • 391-403BourkeSf
sydney:- • Melbourne
3**
4
«bo*
Q
The McCall UIYI
Oval Bottle
Easily identified as contain-
ing your favorite “spot.”
Its oval shape, like the
whisky it holds, is “different.”
Scots (LI his
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide. LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle.
McFARLANE BROS., Hobart.
G.M.5.b.
BUY BOOKS
They Make the Best Christmas Gifts.
ANNUALS
Price Postage
Boys’ Own Annual 14/6 3/6
Girls’ Own Annual 14/6 . 3/6
Chatterbox .. 6/6 1/7
Australian Boys’ Annual 5/9 1/4
Australian Girls’ Annual 5/9 1/4
Chums 13/6 3/6
Schoolboys’ Annual 4/6 1/7
Schoolgirls’ Annual 4/6 1/7
Little Dots 3/6 1/-
Our Girls’ Annual 8/6 2/10
Rainbow Annual 4/3 1/3
Bubbles Annual 4/3 1/3
Mr. Hippo Annual 4/3 1/3
Tiger Tim Annual 6/11 1/8
Champion Annual 6/11 1/8
Modern Boys’ Annual 6/11 1/8
Playtime Annual 6/11 1/8
Puck Annual 6/11 1/8
Hobby Annual 6/11 1/8
Chicks’ Own Annual 4/3 1/3
Uncle Oojah’s Annual 3/6 1/3
Youth (Australia’s Finest Annual) 5/- -/4
LATEST NOVELS
The Knife Through the Ace —
(McLeod Raine)
Shallow Seas (Richard Dehan) ..
Mosaic (G. B. Stern)
Golden Dawn (Peter B. Kyne) ..
Earth Battle (Dorothy Cotterell)
Marivosa (Baroness Orczy)
Storm Drift (Ethel Dell) ....
The Minion (Sabatini)
Fighting Caravans (Zane Grey)
Here’s Luck (Lower, W.) ....
The Bracelet (Robert Hitchins)
Behind the Lines (Morris, W. F.)
Monsoon Music—
(Marie Bjelke-Petersen)
Mistrel (Max Brand)
The Calendar (Edgar Wallace)
Belshazzar (Rider Haggard) ..
Over the Hills (Farnol)
Only the Morning (John Dailey)
The Painted Minx—
(Robert Chambers)
Black Light (Talbot Mundy) ..
Cakes & Ale (Somerset Maugham)
Home of the Blizzard (Mawson)
Angel Pavement (Priestley) ..
Price Postage
THE BRIDGE BOOK
A beautiful photographic record of the world’s eighth wonder. The bridge
is depicted against backgrounds of glorious harbor scenery, taken from many
viewpoints.
Price 2/6. Postage 4d.
BOUND POETS.
Principals of Schools about to purchase Prizes are invited to inspect a
wonderful selection in beautiful leather bindings, which we are offering
at Special Clearance Prices.
A splendid display of Christmas Stationery, Christmas Cards, Calendars.
The Bookstall Packet of Christmas and New Year Cards. 1 2 Beautiful Designs.
Price 1/6. Postage 4d.
Our exhibition of Christmas Cards and Calendars is the finest in Sydney.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
i&m
m
m
19 Wonderful Days
Sydney to San Francisco’s famous Golden Gate in 19
days. . . . “All too short!” say the pleasure trippers. The
very thing we want!” say the business men en route to the
great markets of America and Europe. _ ,
Nineteen days filled with sunlight, placid seas, delightful
ports of call, happy native people, majestic scenery, lovely
flowers, exotic plant life—living in a different world a
happier world, that ends only too soon.
When the call to America or Europe necessitates speed, with
comfort, the Matson-Oceanic route answers, adding distract-
ing interest and courteous service.
PARES- SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO, First-class from £73; Second-class
from £5O/10/-; SYDNEY to NEW YORK, First-class from £95/14/-; Second-
ers? from SYDNEY to LONDON from £97. ROUND THE
WOR SS’ SIERRA SONOMA S.S. VENTURA
SAILING EVERY THIRD SATURDAY FROM CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY
For SUVA, PAGO PAGO, HONOLULU and SAN FRANCISCO
Special Cheap Excursion Tickets issued to Honolulu all the year round.
SOceanieSteamshipCo.
MATSON LINE
12 Bridge Street, Sydney
Local
Agents:
Mcllwraith, McEacharn Ltd.
Dalgety & Company Ltd.
Dalgety & Company Ltd.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth’, Fremantle,
Albany.
Brisbane, and all Queensland Ports,
Write for descriptive
pamphlets, fare lists,
sailing dates, etc.
Name
Address
- . V


Gert: Id love a, dip.
Bert : Sit down ] youuu capsize
THE BOAT,”
t/ y
sorry • VbuRE not
ANNOVED, ARE You ? "
Bert: Oh no Just upset.
The Ins and Outs
“Lansdowne”: Fifty years ago London
“Punch” celebrated the first England v. Aus-
tralia cricket match on English soil in a
piece of rather memorable, if rugged, rhyme,
which some people attributed to Clement
Scott. Most of the combatants got a line or
two, as warriors might have done in a
Homeric battle. One couplet, addressed to
the opening English batsmen before the bard
warmed to his narrative work, ran as follows :
Blackham at wicket, Slight at point, test nerves of
sternest stuff;
And think not, if ye sky or spoon, that Groube or
Moule will muff.
Curiously enough, this particular four, all
Victorians, were destined to outlive almost
all their comrades. Groube died three years
ago and James Slight died last week, leaving
Blackham and Moule the only two survivors
•of Murdoch’s team of 1880.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Victorian Cricket Association
has been smacking its lips over the distribu-
tion of profits on the Australian tour of Eng-
land. The final balancing, disclosed last
week, showed that the Cabbage Gardeners
had hooked £4407, as compared with £2333
after the last tour. The V.C.A. must be a
pretty wealthy body, though the public is not
altogether admitted into its confidence in this
respect. It has never been so open-handed in
the payment of its “amateur” players as
N.S.W., and generally the outgoings have
always been shepherded with the discretion
one would expect of a State largely Scottish
in character.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: In spite of a spin of wet
weather, which threatened to spoil his testi-
monial match, Jack Ryder gets a decent
cheque. Close on £3OOO came in and, deduct-
ing exes., John will collect £24oo—less, of
course, wliat. the taxation people will do with
him. Perhaps it was with this gloomy aspect
of the situation in view that the V.C.A.
turned down a suggestion that a benefit match
should be accorded those capable ancients
Blackie and Ironmonger. Much as the pair
deserves something of the sort the clouds
will have to roll by before beneficence rears
its head again.
* * * =s
“Ump.”: A curious point of cricket law
cropped up in a Sydney grade match the
other day. The Waverley club, fielding
against Marrickville, indulged in throwing
and catching practice between the fall of
wickets. For this they used a practice ball,
which had been taken on to the field by one
of the team, the idea being to keep the ball
which was being used for actual play as
new and glossy as possible for the benefit
of the swing bowlers. To this the umpire
objected, basing his decisiojn on law 43,
which says among other things that he shall
be the sole judge of fair or unfair play. In
his opinion a point was being worked, and
he acted accordingly.
# • * * *
“F.R.” writes from far Saskatchewan
(Canada) :
In my latest cqpy of The Bulletin was a photo,
group of the first Australian cricket team that went
to England. I was 12 years old when I saw the ’B2
team playing at Manchester. The Aussies lost by 10
wickets, Hornby making the winning hit with a six
over the pavilion, off Spofforth. Before the match
started the players were practising when George
Giffen sliced a ball on to my jaw. He immediately
dropped his bat and came running up to me, but,
finding I was little the worse, patted my head and
said: “My boy, you must have an iron jaw.” After
the match the crowd went wild, yelling for the
different players to appear at the windows of the
dressing-room. Hornby first, then R. S. Barlow.
Barlow was having a hath when he got his call,
but the other players grabbed him just as he was
and before he had time to get his shirt on. ‘ He
was as mad as a man could be, but could do nothing,
and the thousands of spectators reckoned it a great
joke.
•i* *i»
“W. G. Snort”: Cricket followers will
generally approve of the decision of the
Marylebone Club to cut out appeals against
the light in first-class matches. This
is a result of the Leeds Test, when
England, in a tight corner, got out of
it with a successful appeal against light
conditions. The practice is quite a modern
one, and has gradually grown into an abuse,
the trick of appealing not being considered
infra dig. for even the most sporting captain.
There is too much of this niminy-piminy non-
sense about latter-day cricket, with its cov-
ered pitches and elaborate sight-boards, two
institutions that might well follow the light
joke into oblivion.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin” : The Australian tennis heads
heaved a sigh of relief the other day when
they found that the cash returns from the
Davis Cup tour and the extra match against
England will top the £lOOO mark. The ori-
ginal estimate was some £2OO below this,
and the idea of a deficit of £7OO kept mem-
bers of the council, a body very canny with
the brass, awake o’ nights. Now there will
be only some £5OO to write off, and the wind
has been tempered accordingly. The pre-
vious decision to drop out of the next Davis
Cup was confirmed, as was that to co-
operate with South Africa in asking that
the constitution of the Gup be varied to
permit the holding of the tourney every
two years instead of annually. It might
even be advisable to postpone the next
entry until this country can produce some
players of class enough to earn the oats
dispensed for them on the long and expen-
sive journey entailed. Our last two teams,
frankly, have not earned their feed, and all
the members of them seem to have got as
far in tennis as they are ever likely to go.
* t- S|S *
“Hotham”: In a rain-marred match in
Melbourne, N.S.W. managed to scrape home
from Victoria by 11 rubbers to 9. Play iii
general was indifferent, and the attendance
was horrible. Hopman was easily the best
of the Welshmen, though he and Crawford
were well licked in their doubles match with
Clemcnger and Schlesinger. In the women’s
match, Noo South got home by a set.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: The N.S.W. tennis
authorities sent a team to Tasmania follow-
ing on the Vic. games. The side, which
includes Crawford and Hopman, with Mrs.
Crawford and another woman player, will
also figure in Melbourne on Christmas
Day in a benefit match to Pat O’Hara
Wood, who is turning professional. With
all respect to Pat, many of the purists
of amateurism are doubtful if he should
have been allowed to represent Vic-
toria in the match against N.S.W. after
he had expressed his intention of joining
the ranks of cash. It is just as doubtful
whether the appearance of the amateurs in
a match for the benefit of a declared profes-
sional is not also over the odds. It would
not be permitted in Britain, France o?
America, but the Australian authorities view
these matters in a peculiar light, and one
which never seems to shine the same way
twice running.
* * *
“Colombes”: France does not look like
hanging on to the Davis Cup much longer
if flip just-published ranking list of French
players is correct. Leaving out Lacoste,
.since he has temporarily retired from big
tennis, the three leaders of the men are
Cochet, Borotra and Boussus. Borotra is
definitely a back number, and Boussus, of
whom so much was expected a couple of
seasons ago, has made little improvement.
Among the others there is not a single player
of definite promise, and it seems evident that
the old brigade will have to defend the
famous pot next season.
The Nineteenth Hole
‘Brassey”: Fifteen-year-old Jim Ferrier,
who plays for the Manly (N.S.W.) club, of
which his dad is secretary, should scale the
highest heights of Australian golf. A foot
injury prevents him playing in other field
games, with the result that he has been able
to concentrate on the one. For the second
year in succession he has won the Manly
Summer Cup, and each time the field has
included the cream' of Sydney’s amateurs.
Ferrier finished with a card of 75, with Eric
Apperly, a former winner of Australian and
State amateur championships, a stroke
behind in second place. Course bogey and
standard scratch at Manly is 77.
* * * *
“The Mcllaggis”: Queensland has fur-
nished another queer golf happening. A
hard-driven ball hit a near-by tree and dis-
appeared. Later the striker found the pill
in one of his pockets. The question arises
what should he do? If it had been some-
one else’s and a good one, the obvious
course would have been to sneak away with-
out saying anything. As things were, all
depends on whether he was playing match
or stroke golf, If the former, he lost the
hole; if the latter, one stroke only. The
question of carrying on arises in the latter
event. Where should he drop the new pill?
There is no definite law on the subject, and
so the pundits are hard at it. It is obviously
impossible for a player in his plight to
play from the place where the ball hit the
tree-trunk, or to drop the new pill into the
pocket where the old one was reposing. The
suggestion of one enthusiast has its points.
That is that the player should continue his
march to the green with the old ball in his
pocket, and drop the new one in the hole.
# * * *
“Hoylake”: The value of catching ’em
young in golf has been again stressed by the
victory of 15-year-old Pauline Doran in the
Girls’ open championship of England. It
was no fluke either, for the final was a tough
struggle with Doris Wilkins, three years
older, and ended in a tie at the eighteenth.
Playing an extra hole for a championship
tries the stoutest of male nerves, but the kid
was more than equal to the occasion, winning
after a drive from the tee of over 200 yards.
All through the match the winner got
astonishing length with her wooden clubs.
There are any amount of he-men players
who would like to be able to produce a 200-
yard slam with the woods whenever they
wanted it.
“Gleneagles”: America has been a land
overflowing with milk and honey to the
Scottish professional golfer, poorly rewarded
for his skill even nowadays. When it was
bruited in the Land o’ Cakes, some 20 years
ago, that golf was becoming popular in
America among people who never bit their
money when taking change, an invasion
began which soon swelled to a rush that
Ellis Island uvas helpless to cope with. A
great proportion of the leading American
professionals of to-day are Scots, and one of
the most prominent is “Bobby” Cruickshank,
who is coming to Australia next year wilh
Joe Kirkwdod and Mehlhorn. He is a
finished shotmaker, but is accused of refus-
ing to take the game seriously, which seems
incredible in a Scot. Nevertheless, he is in
the first flight; in 1927 he tied with the re-
doubtable Bobby Jones in the American open
championship, the imperturbable Georgian
winning the play off.
# 9|t s{t
“Cash Amateur”: American golf profes-
sionals have recently been taking strong
exception to Bobby Jones’s activities as a
golf writer. The champion is credited with
drawing thousands sterling a year from his
syndicated articles, and the pros, claim that
many attempt to learn their game from these,
instead of going to a professional for instruc-
tion. It is difficult to see any grounds for
objection, for if the idea of the disgruntled
ones were to be carried to its logical conclu-
sion everyone who has written a book on
golf would be a veiled professional. At the
same time it seems an anomaly that a man
should be a professional if he writes articles
on tennis for money, but remains an amateur
if he confines his lucubrations to golf, cricket,
or even snakes and ladders.
* * * *
' “Uncle” : One of the American golf jour-
nals has been holding a census of golfers in
the land of the machine-gun and bootleg, with
rather paralysing results. There are 5800
registered clubs with one and a half million
members, not taking into account 750.000
regular players on public links and 850,000
“other golfers,” these being the sort that
play the game at the-Nineteenth, apparently.
“Minnie” players amount to only a million,
which is disappointing. Money invested in
club houses and property is rated at four
hundred million pounds, and to that add
£170.000,000 for “members’ expenditure,”
which sounds good for the “wet” interest.
Balls cost a mere £4,000,000 and clubs
£2,350,000—in all about £600,000,000.
Car and Cycle
“Cooparoo” : Unless someone blundered, a
remarkable petrol-consumption performance
was put up by an English car of the “pram”
class in Brisbane the other day. It was
in a ton mileage and consumption test con-
ducted by Brisbane Automobile Club, and the
little machine cut out 31.7 miles on a quart
of petrol, this rating at 126.8 miles to the
gallon. The same car finished second on
the weight readjustment, though none of
the competitors came near the winning-con-
sumption figures. The outright winner, an-
other English car weighing 28cwt. 2qr. 141 b.,
recorded an actual mileage, of 27.3. Ton
mileage worked out at 78.14, wlijle that of
the small car, which weighed llcwt., was
70.64.
❖ ❖ ❖ £
“Screw”: There are ' infinite possibilities
in an invention announced in England, which
is primarily designed to take the numbers
of the license plates of cars travelling at too
high a speed. Hydraulic cylinders sunk in
the roadway are connected electrically with
a clock and a camera.. When the car passes
ever the cylinders at an excessive rate, the
clock and the camera do the rest. Since the
speed limit has been abolished in Britain
there is bound to be a lot of argument as to
what constitutes excessive speed, but there
are other disturbing aspects. The camera
takes photographs by day or night, and in
future the husband who is supposed to bo
working back at the office, will have to watch
his step closer than ever.
* * * :is
“Disc Clutch”: The near-side drive for
motor-cars may have all the advantages
claimed for it (B. 19/11/’3O), but it lias
many drawbacks to offset these, as long as
our traffic rules remain as they are. A man
does not see an approaching car, which will
pass him on his right, nearly as well as if
lie were seated on the right side of the car.
The signals with the right hand cannot be
seen so easily from the left-hand driver. When
taking up or setting down passengers at the
near-side kerb, the passenger would have to
walk round to the far side of the car into
the traffic to enter, a highly dangerous pro-
ceeding. There are several other objections,
but those are enough to go on with.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“Amateur Pro.”: Duncan Gray, who
was recently disqualified by the status com-
mittee of the N.S.W. Cyclists’ Union for
allegedly trafficking in open orders won in
cycling races, has had his appeal upheld.
It was based, on the fact that the chair-
man of the status committee was not a
delegate, as the rules require he should be.
The Goulburn youth will now be able
to figure in the Australian championships
held in Sydney in February. The decision,
whatever the merits of the grounds on which
the appeal was based, will be welcomed by
Australian cyclists. Gray is in a class by
himself at all distances up to 10 miles, and
is practically certain of selection for the
cycling events at the Los Angeles Olympiad,
a fact which may have had something to do
with the council’s finding.
Miscellaneous
"Hough House” : By all accounts, Britain
is getting on its toes over a new game known
as “nonette,” which is seriously threatening
midget golf. That seems to be its principal
merit, for it is described as a game played
with a battledore and shuttlecock, on the
lines of Badminton, but without a net, while
the shuttle has a rubber instead of a cork
base. It can be played in or out of doors,
and the star stunt is to catch the lively
shuttle in a cup on the back of the wooden
battle. It doesn’t sound nearly so brutal as
tennis, and for that reason should appeal
to Australians who do not care to risk
themselves in that hectic sport.
* * * sj:
“Hotham”: The Australian Olympic
Federation woke from its long sleep in Mel-
bourne the other day and decided to hold a
meeting next month to discuss the selection
of the Australian team for the Los Angeles
Olympiad. As the Games will not be held
until 1932, this is an astonishing reversal
of form, for the federation usually starts
preparing for an Olympiad about three
months before the scheduled date of begin-
ning. It is to be hoped that this time one
of the unpleasant features of the dispatch
of the last team will not be repeated. That
was the financing of certain athletes by news-
papers. The practice runs very close to
professionalism as far as the acceptor of
the terms is concerned, and in any case
is a sordid adjunct to amateur sport.
* $ * *
“Cash Amateur”: If the cables are cor-
rect, the International Olympic Committee
has come to a sensible decision. Athletes
competing at the Olympiad will be permitted
to draw their wages—provided, of course, the
boss is agreeable—during their absence from
work. Hitherto this was regarded as savoring
of professionalism, like the acceptance of pre-
sents. As to that, the Scottish Rugby Union
recently disqualified a Scotsman playing with
Newport in Wales because the club had pre-
sented him and his 14 mates with gold
watches as an acknowledgment of a brilliant
season.
i|: its * its
“Espada” : Promoters and followers of th„e
fine old Spanish sport of bull-fighting are in
despair, for their game is slipping badly in
public estimation, rings that once hung out
the “House Full’-’ sign weekly having now
to paper the house heavily to keep the tem-
peramental matador placated. New stunts
such as mounting the matador on horseback
or a motor-cycle have*failed to rouse enthusi-
asm, and hundreds of leading performers are
joining the ranks of the unemployed', to say
nothing of the bulls. Rugby and Soccer
football are the counter-attractions, and
many a famous bullring is now .converted to
such base ujscs. Ay di mi, as we used to
say in my palmy days in the ring when the
“shower” didn’t cash up to the matador’s
expectations.
**. * *
“Blade Sight” : South Australia had occa-
sion for a little back-patting last week when
the news came through that the 43rd and
48th battalions had won the coveted Roberts
rifle-shooting trophy with a score of 308.
Eighteen Dominion teams took part in the
shoot, Liverpool College being well back in
second place with 271. Sydney Church of
England Grammar was third, with.2sB.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Backwoodsman” : Thb diehards of N.S.W.
bowls still vehemently oppose the proposal
to pay travelling and housing expenses of
bowlers on tour. The need for a change
was made evident in Sydney last week when
the N.S.W. selectors had to cancel the inter-
state match with Victoria at Christmas
because they could not find even a moderate
team able to go to Melbourne at its own
expense. There were plenty of well-to-do
old duds available, but there have been too
many of those in inter-State bowls in the
past.
* * * :!:
“Stand Off”: The historic Rugby match
between Oxford and Cambridge Universities
ended in a 3-all draw, Cambridge scoring a
try, and Henley, a Maorilander from Otago
University, equalising matters in the last
few minutes with a long penalty kick. Minns,
another player from the Shivery Isles, was
very conspicuous on the Oxford wing, but
the star of the Dark Blue side was “Butts”
Lamport, of Sydney University, who was
in rare buckle at scrum-half, and should go
near catching a place in the English trials
this season.


Under 5
Royal
J^rrant
jk
To H.M.
George V
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
lasiecK
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
Champagne
uiarleslleidsieCN
Reims
“MERCURY” BRAND
TASMANIAN
CIDER
jkj
WHEN BRICHI
EYES CIANC^
More precious than the richest gems are a pair
of healthy, laughing eyes. Be on your guard
against Inflammation and Disease. If the eyes
are overstrained or bloodshot or afflicted with
Sandy Blight, Scaly Eyelids, Granulation, etc.,
treat with ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION
according to directions. This famous Lotion not only
soothes and heals tired and inflamed Eyes, but restores
the natural brightness and strengthens the sight.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION provides a
simple, rational treatment that is safe for people of
all ages.
Every reputable Chemist and Storekeeper sells it.
V
EYE LOTI
m
For the Spring and Summer
Evenings.
MONDAY TO FRIDAY.
DELIGHTFUL SUPPER DANCES.
Commencing at 9 a.m. and
finishing at 1 a.m.
SUPPER 5/-, including dancing.
Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY NIGHT. LATE NIGHT.
Evening Dress Only.
Special Supper from 9 p.m., 10/6
—dancing till 2 a.m.
JACK WOOD’S POPULAR
AMBASSADOR ORCHESTRA.
Afternoon Tea
Dansant
3.30 till 5.30, 2/6
Saturday . . 4/-
’Phone M 4131.
WOMAN’S
LETTER.
Sir Pyers and Lady Mostyn, who arrived
on a visit to Sydney by the Otranto, are an
interesting couple. He belongs to an old
Welsh Catholic family (the baronetcy is a
seventeenth-century one) which has inter-
married with the English Southwells, Tal-
bots, Stourtons and De Traffords, and
contains ail R.C. Archbishop—his Grace of
Cardiff, who is the young man’s uncle. His
wife was originally Margery Alarks. Her
mother, as one of the prettiest of the Gaiety
Girls who were here in the ’nineties, married
Alf Marks, younger brother of Tlieo, the
sporting architect, and of Irene, now Mrs.
George Vivers. Margery married Bertie
Watson a dozen years ago, but they didn’t
hit it off, and “a divorce was arranged,” so
to speak.
It was rather like grabbing the other
fellow’s limelight when the United Associa-
tion sent a deputation to wait on the Pre-
mier about a bill granting equal guardian-
ship of infants to both parents. As far back
as poor actress Emelie Polini’s divorce this
has exercised the best brains of the Feminist
Club; in fact, the Feminists for seven years
have never ceased to hammer out requests
that such a bill should have speedy passage.
They even had a deputation all planned to
call on the Alinister for Justice, Air. Lamaro,
and leave on him a lengthy petition, but the
United Association, led by president Mrs.
Ken Street and Airs.. Albert Littlejohn,
arrived on the Premier’s doormat two days
earlier, so the- kite whose tail was to have
been a thousand names long was never flown.
Great are the uses of propinquity! Last
week Mrs. Kenneth Street, Airs. Albert Little-
john and a number of other staunch Nats, met
Premier Lang for the first time. They had
pictured a roaring boor with demoniacal
horns protruding beneath his Cap of Liberty.
They found an amiable, mild-voiced suburb-
anite whom one of them described after-
wards as “a charming man to talk to.” The
subject on which they bearded him was the
bill which Feminists have been fighting for
ever since the Emilie Polini case, its object
being to bring about the equal guardianship
of children. As Mr. Lang is in sympathy
with the reform himself he was seen at his
best, and promised readily to have the mea-
sure drafted soon after the holidays. No one
is ever as black as his political opponents
paint him, of course. The misfortune is
that so few of us get a chance to prove it
by personal experience.
Speech days came and speech days went,
and the hours were filled with pleasant plati-
tudes. But you should have listened to some
of the heads of the greater private schools
during the past week or so! Dreadful people
have got control of the country’s affairs, it
seems, and—well, yes, it does seem a pity
that the few who saw the dangers were for
years just voices crying in the wilderness.
However, the depression has marched right
up into the headmaster’s study now and
told him that this and that pupil won’t be
coming next term. Qnly the kindergartens
promise to flourish, and that is because
mothers are doing without nursemaids. After
the holidays the classrooms may be filled
with rows and rows of babies’ chairs, and
babies’ bottles will be the fount at which
perhaps half of the pupils will drink.
Seppy Alison, only son of James Alison,
who married the eldest Miss Burdekin, of
Burdekin House, nearly 40 years ago, is on
his way to Sydney. Sep, who went overseas
with the Old Contemptibles as a Guards
subaltern, was one of the first British cap-
tures made by the Germans, and he put in
the rest of the war in a prisoners’ camp.
The Huns weren’t particularly Hunnish in
his case. They detailed officers to continue
his military education where it had been
interrupted by the outbreak of hostilities, and
.allowed him any luxury in reason—provided
he paid for it. A fur coat was one of the
home comforts that arrived for him from
England. He should be one of Australia’s
richest men in the natural course of events.
His mother was an heiress, and his tall, good-
looking father is immensely wealthy.
Pictures of blue seas, green trees, sun and
shade from the brush of B. E. Alinns hang
27-strong in Rubery Bennett’s gallery. These
exquisite water-colors are small in size, and
so small in cost that some of the art frater-
nity are inclined to regard them as a breach
of union rules. But picture-lovers will
appreciate the commonsense outlook of the
artist who fixes his prices to meet the
times. In Europe the smaller works of good
artists can be bought at a reasonable figure,
but the cost of art in this country is un-
doubtedly too high for the great majority.
Before the drowsing bullock team of
“Noon” the other morning were posed John
Banks and a slim young thing, Chris Sim
by name, together with the Ashley Coopers.
Each is an artist, and all were murmurous
with praise over the cunning displayed in
the sun-warm canvas. Chris, who is a grand-
niece of Lord Inchcape, is just back after
two years’ study in Switzerland, where water-
color work has been claiming her attention.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite has for
her beach outfit a backless bathing costume,
armless, of course, and entirely legless. But
her hat is like the roof of a bell tent. She
explains that her skin is so sensitive she
has to be so careful.
In these changing times Romano’s can
be looked upon as one of the city’s old-
established cabarets. It is now three years
of age, and it celebrated the event by a birth-
day night, at which wines sparkled at even
more frequent intervals than diamonds, and
the festive-looking but terribly safe gin and
ginger-ale flowed as gracefully as the moire
and chiffon frocks of these 1930 nights.
Down the stairs, guarded with tall spears of
gladioli and interwoven with blue and pink
hydrangea and blue and white agapanthus,
stepped probably the most fashionably dressed
procession of men and women the week had
seen.
The educational Miss Marion Clarke, in
whose school at Parramatta and later at
Waliroonga (she was the founder and first
principal of Abbotsleigh, on the North Shore
line) two or three generations have been
trained, is back in Sydney after an absence
of 17 years. Her “old girls” gathered around
her in the Girls’ Secondary Schools Club and
gave her a great welcome.
The other day this Letter’s aunt walked
into her favorite milliner’s carrying a last
year’s hat in a paper bag. The tall, slim
shoplady shook her Eton crop. “Another
body in the bag!” she moaned as she un-
corked the shape that was to have been
remodelled on 1930 lines. Then she grew
expansive. “Half the women who come into
this salon these days carry a paper bag with
just the same sort of derelict as this. Once
upon a time the same women would not go
out of the shop with a bag if you’d given
them a brand new two-guinea model for
doing it. Women are living at home in tub
frocks nowadays or going out to bridge
parties in rustic hats. If this sort of thing
lasts I’ll be soon hanging out a new line
of evening head-dress strung together of
Moreton Bay figleaves.”
There’s one dear old sclioolmarm who’s
in for a surprise this Merry Christmas it
the prayer of
the littlest
kindergartener
is answered.
Standing be-
fore her on a
recent after-
noon, he con-
fided : “I’ve
asked Santa
Claus to bring
me a teddy-
bear, a scooter,
a motor - car
an’ a canvas
boat; and I’ve
asked him to
bring mother
some glass
beads, an’
daddy a pipe;
an’ I’ve asked
him to bring
you a dear little baby.”
Airs. Evans Jones told a story of Aus-
tralia’s first Prime Minister at Dorothy
Coffee’s wedding. In the old days War-
ranilla was the home of the Toby Bartons,
and was named Meandetta. One day, at the
University, talking with a friend of Mrs.
Evans Jones about abo. names, Toby men-
tioned the label of his home, adding with a
grin, “Of course it should be Ale-an’-creditor.”
Australia’s old friend the P. and O. has
always prided itself on its adherence to tradi-
tion ; but there have been signs of weaken-
ing lately. One of them is the decision that
the two new 21,000-tonners for the Austra-
lian trade shall be painted white from water-
line to truck, with buff funnels. From time
whereof the memory of man runneth not to
the contrary the P, and O. ensemble has been
black hull and funnels with buff upperworks
and masts. The very names of the new ships
are revolutionary. The colonials of Aus-
tralia may not get apoplectic over it; but
Heaven knows how the colonels of India will
put up with such christenings as Strath-
navar and Strathnaird!
The poor relation of the family had arrived
early for the wedding, and was handed over
to the small boy of the family. For one of
the unfathomable reasons of childhood the
shabby aunt was the kid’s favorite. He
showed her the flowers in the drawing-room,
led her to the lounge where the bride and her
’maids were being photographed, then beck-
oned her into the dining-room where the
buffet supper was laid out in splendor.
“And don’t you let ’em push you lower down
than that bunch of hydrangeas with the pink
ribbon, auntie,” he warned, “because that’s
where the champagne ends and the hock
begins.”
The Sacred Heart Hospice for the Dying
in Darlinghurst is the richer by a new wing
and all the modern equipment for the defeat
of cancer, through the generosity of Mrs.
J. C- Williamson and daughter Tootles, Mrs.
Wallace Horsley. Each gave the institution
a cheque for £5000; and this plus the Govern-
ment subsidy netted the £20,000 which made
the new wing possible. This is a place of
long, cool wards, with many windows flung
wide through which the fresh breeze blows
freely. The beds are blue, the furnishings
golden brown —a striking background for the
white-garbed sisters who minister to tne
vants of the inmates. There’s a roof garden,
too, whither the sick can be wheeled; here,
guarded from a too ardent sun by gay um-
brellas of striped awning, they can enjoy
the clear air, the peacock waters of the
harbor, and the city unrolling in the dis-
tance like some chaffering bazaar. Arch-
bishop Kelly blessed the wards on Sunday
afternoon, Mrs. Williamson, Mrs. Horsley
(who was having her first day out from St
Vincent’s after an operation for appendi-
citis), Josephine Marks, and frail little
Mother Cecilia, the founder of the Hospice,
making up the company during the dedication.
Our Brisbane “Little Sister” writes:—
The week has been packed with functions in con-
nection with Archbishop Duhig’s silver jubilee. More
than 200 representatives of the hierarchy combined
in a stirring demonstration at the official dinner at
Lennon’s. All the money given by his congregation
ia being devoted by the Archbishop to the Holy Name
Cathedral building fund. A gathering representing
every branch of religious thought and all brands of
politics met in the Lord Mayor’s reception room at
the City Hall to felicitate his Grace; the Premier
was among the speakers. In the evening there was
a presentation of £6500 given to him by the laity,
and £962 by the clergy.
The Governor and Lady Goodwin went to South-
port for the annual speech-day of the Southport
School. Archbishop Sharp presided, his Ex. handed
out the prizes, and the new headmaster, B. G.
Lawrence, successor of Archdeacon Dixon, presented
his first annual report. The present enrolment of
247 boys is the biggest in the 30 years’ history of
the school, which has furnished this year’s Queens-
land Rhodes scholar in R. O. Bennett.
Lady Goodwin presented the prizes at St. Hilda’s
Girl;’ School, where the Archbishop again presided.
The Governor was also present, with Bishop de Witt
Batty and Archdeacon Dixon. Miss W. L. Fittock,
E.A., headmistress, received the vice-regal party, and
there was a big roll-up of parents.
Mrs. M. E. Brighouse is dead in her 81st year.
A native of Nottingham, the lady came here nearly
half a century ago with her husband and two children
when Rutledge Hill was a blacks’ camp, and church
services were held in private at Upper Paddington,
there being no place of worship. Her husband died
in 1911. One of the sons, E. A. Brighouse, married
a sister of Mayor Jolly.
St. Thomas’s church at Toowortg saw the marriage
of Edward Woolfrey and Maida Duncombe. The
bride was given away by Mr. Walter Harding in
magnolia mariette with a picture hat of Lido blue;
she carried gold roses in blue tulle. ' Mrs. Claude
Duncombe, her sister-in-law, was matron of honor,
in white mariette with a blue crin. hat. The recep-
tion was held at the Walter Hardings’ home, Goon-
dooran, Toowong, where Mrs. F. J. Duncombe received
in black satin beaut 6. The Northern Rivers will see
the ’moon.
The Dickens Fellowship always manage an attrac-
tive Christmas party at the year’s end. All Saints’
hall saw the function this year and mid-Victorian
dances were the entertainment, with mistletoe boughs
overhead and mince-pies on the board below. Dora
Birkbeck’s posy was ’in the identical posy-holder
carried by her grandmother when she attended a
reception to Charles Dickens in America. Professor
Cumbrae-Stewart received the guests, assisted by
Mesdames Agnew Jackson and A. P. Green.
Cremorne reopened with “Pot Luck,” and Ada
Reeve and Frith were heartily welcomed back here.
There were repeated calls for old favorites from
Ada's repertoire. The dancing is one of the best
features of the show.
And from Perth :
Last week at St. Mary’s, Colin-street, Moosie,
third daughter of Mr. and Mrs. W. J. Butcher, be-
came the bride of Dr. Tom Seed. A shoulder cape
fell to the fitting waistline of the beige lace bridal
gown made with long sleeves and a circular ankle-
length skirt. The hat was of similar tonings and
the bouquet of pink and gold roses. Bride’s sister
Peggy ’maided in dawn-pink georgettes cut with a
circular cape and attractive draperies upon the skirt.
Dr. Walter Seed was best man.
The Westminster Glee Singers and the Backhaus
seasons rather spoiled the financial chances of Edith
Harrhy’s concerts; but the handful of musical folk
at the Karrakatta Club had a rare treat on both
evenings. Miss Harrhy wore white chiffons, and her
two small daughters, with bows on their long hair,
sat in the front row. Keith Cummings played his
fiddle delightfully—he never uses. music—and four
of Miss Harrhy’s violin solos were included in his
repertoire. Alfred Mooreley sang groups, including
“What the Red-haired Bos’n Said.”
In aid of the Perth Children’s Library, the Diploma
of Education students produced “Mrs. Moonlight,”
Benn Levy’s fantasy concerning a woman who never
grew old. Molly Ick played the name part with
her usual polish and sincerity; Phil Shappere as Mr.
Moonlight did some really capital work in the last
act; and Florence Besley gave a clever interpretation
of Minnie, from whose caustic tongue comes rasps of
Scottish wit. Except for a too-youthful make-up in
the last act, Lucy Hosking did well as Jane.
Exhibitions of pictures by visiting artists are rare
in Perth; Irene Carter’s water-colors drew 1000
people into the Town Hall supper-room during one
week. Miss Carter has spent four years in Italy,
where Venetian scenes inspired her brush. Prices
are moderate and little red seals are plentiful.
The Infant Health League, whose motto is Dr.
Truby King’s “Keep Well Babies Well,” heard a
jingle in the money-box of its Claremont branch
from an evening bridge party at the Walter Drabbles’
home in Nedlands. Two lounges decked with salvia,
red geraniums and red roses and the wide verandah
accommodated 30 tables.
The Otranto brought back May Holman, M.L.A.,
from Geneva, where she represented the Australian
workers at the International Labor Conference.
Charles Iffla, a Westralian operatic singer who has
been studying for four years in Milan, caught the
same liner home.


/ 99
JteaC
CASCADE
ACE and
EAGER,
IG/- per doz.
STOUT
17/- per doz.
Obtain your Christmas supplies
direct from the wholesaler at
wholesale prices!
One hundred per cent, pure.... amber clear and
deliciously mellow, Cascade Tasmanian Ale con-
tains no preservatives whatever. It is crisp and
sparkling.... a natural tonic, rich with the vitamins
of the choicest malt and hops. Cascade is brewed
with crystalline snow water, which gives it a flavor
equal to that of the finest English Ale. And, it is
offered this Christmas in lots of one dozen or more
at actual wholesale rates. Suburban supplies are
forwarded C.0.D., but cheque or postal note should
come with country orders, delivered free on rail or
boat, Sydney. Empties bought back at 9d. per
dozen. Send the form.
Distributors:
WALTER CAVILL & CO.,
379 Sussex Street, Sydney.
’Phones: M 2214 and' M 2215.
USE THIS ORDER FORM
Kindly forward
I enclose ....
NAME
ADDRESS . . .
FPL2I
k
Now the
Buyer is
PROTECTED
C~"\NE of the greatest benefits in buying
a used car from Autocar Industries
is the absolute protection you get.
IThe title is guaranteed—you do not have
to worry over someone claiming payments
still due.
2 You deal with one of Melbourne’s oldest
car firms, assuring you of honest representa-
tion and first-class treatment after sale.
(Since the first of May last Autocar used-
car division have sold nearly 350 units,
value exceeding £33,000 —proof of public
confidence and satisfaction.)
3 Every car gets skilled and thorough inspec-
tion by qualified engineers in AUTOCAR’S
OWN WORKSHOPS—enabling them to
guarantee good service and satisfactory
performance in every case, consistent with
the price paid.
4 Every car is thoroughly cleaned, polished
like new, oiled and greased, supplied with a
usable kit of tools, grease gun, pump, etc.,
with two gallons of petrol ready for the road.
5 Every car may be bought on confidential
easy terms, if desired.
Before you buy any used car, be sure
to inspect our stocks. WE CAN SAVE
YOU MONEY!
USED CARS TRADED.
DRIVING LESSONS FREE
NO SALES TAX.
m
AUTOCAR INDUSTRIES
Used-car Division,
104-112 Russell Street, Melbourne, Cl.
PTY.,
LTD.
’Phone: Cent. 9200
«
c%%
aU'dde
dews
eweuk
X
:■ Si
a
till*
■
■ ■
mam
f. ■
au
■
8
Who has not thrilled to the long “lift” shorewards on a white-
capped breaker or the swift, gliding passage of the surfboard?
Happy throngs disport themselves along South Queensland’s
200 miles of perfect surfing beaches. From Noosa to the
Tweed the happy laughter of youth echoes from joyous parties
—for all become young again here.
Now is the time and South Queensland the place for happy
seaside holidays. Why deprive yourself a day longer of that
hard-earned summer vacation?
Modern hotels and guesthouses cater for the holiday-maker,
and regular rail and motor services provide quick and com-
fortable transport from the metropolis. Free yourself of irksome
travel worries, and let us arrange your transport and accommo-
dation.
Make up your mind and act now. Take up your pen and
write for further particulars and illustrated literature to
Government Tourist Bureau
“At Your Service
GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
>, And at Sydney—Rockhampton—Townsville—Cairns.


Amusements,
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. 0. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: TURNED UP
(Commencing Saturday).
CRITERION:
ELIZA COMES TO STAY.
T C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
PANTOMIME—
THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT.
RICKARDS’ TI VO L I THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
TWICE DAILY, at 2.30 and 8 p.m.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents
THE NEW REVUE
CENTRAL 928.
With a Brilliant Cast of Popular Favorites.
Popular Pre-war Prices.
THE NATIONAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSOCIATION
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Established 1869.
EXTRACTS FROM SIXTY-FIRST ANNUAL REPORT.
21,052 New Policies, assuring £9,201,022
New Annual Premiums 355,252
Income for Year 4,983,876
Payments to Policy-holders 2,559,110
Added to Assurance Fund ........... 1,973,792
Assurance Fund at 30/9/’3O 33,521,387
EVERY YEAR A BONUS YEAR.
Bonus Certificates for the year ended 30th September, 1930, will be issued
on Ist March, 1931.
New South Wales Board:
SIR JOHN VICARS.
W. D. STEWART, Esq.
OSWALD ST. CLAIR, Manager.
Offices: 350 George Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
ALECK CAPEBREAD, born in London
1868, and late of Penge, Kent, England.
Last heard of in 1895. Believed to be in
Australia. Anyone knowing his whereabouts
please communicate with JIM COOPER,
Home Hill, North Queensland.
What a Lucky Christmas for Broken Hill!
LOOK WHAT IT HAS. GOT FOR CHRISTMAS
BOXES:
Best Miget Golf Course in N.S.W.
Great rains, giving a year’s supply of water.
Pastoral areas blooming and booming.
Assured continuance of work on the mines.
And the “Barrier Miner” to keep things
humming!
All the best luck in Australia has come to
Brokep Hill.
The Same to You.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
Charity fetes and fairs clashed a good
deal on Saturday, owing to the deluge of
rain at the previous week-end, which necessi-
tated some postponements. Though the after-
noon was showery, results were, on the aver-
age, fairly satisfactory in all cases. The
Benevolent Fund of the V.R.C. will reap a
welcome contribution from the race-meeting
at Moonee Valley. There was not much of a
crowd in the members’ stand, but the hill
and the flat both carried many patrons.
The- weather made tailored suits and
ensembles the only possible wear. Mr.
and Mrs. A. V. Ivewney; Mrs. Ben
Chaffey, with grey fur upon a dark green
cloth coat and skirt; Miss F. Macpherson ;
and Mrs. Russell Gabb, in China-blue and
white check raiment and matching swathed
toque, were strollers on the laWn. There "is
a new paved path by the rose-grown beds
along the straight by the members’ enclosure,
and in the mounting yard delphiniums and
crimson geraniums make a gay show. The
Rogers Thomsons were accompanied by Mr.
Justice Schutt. Mrs. A. V. Hiskens had
with her Miss Cox and Mrs. W. Macgregor,
the latter in light tweed in tones of rasp-
berry-red and pink, with blending millinery.
The J. F. Feehans, Mrs. Lauchie Mackinnon
and Mrs. J. B. McArthur were others who
attended.
At Menzies’ on Saturday there was bridge
and a cafe ebantant for St. Vincent’s Hos-
pital’s Christmas celebration under the aus-
pices of the Melbourne and East Melbourne
Auxiliary. The president, Mrs. Merson
Cooper, was stage-manager and producer, and
Mrs. D. P. Mackey, hon. sec., and Mrs. J.
Warne, hon. treas., gave aid. Mrs. Cooper
received congratulations upon the win at
Moonee Valley of her husband’s two-year-old,
Millette. Flower and sweets sales and raffles
helped to garner coin. Among the singers
were soprano Kathleen Goodall, baritone
Bernard McCaffrey and contralto Olive
Richardson. Mona Nugent, wdio conducted
an orchestra, also sang, and there were items
from tenor Victor Baxter and baritone John
Fraser. Mrs. George Haines gave mono-
logues very effectively, and among several
other performers of merit were two children
who danced daintily.
It sounded on Friday as if the city were
being invaded by a foreign foe. Twenty-five
'planes, large and small, droned menacingly
overhead for several hours, while along the
street marched a band of a hundred
drummerboys tapping away like mad. But
the only danger that existed was of being
induced by patriotic motives to subscribe
to the Commonwealth loan, on behalf of
which all this racket was staged. The un-
usual pageant produced very satisfactory
results.
Society’s exodus to seaside and country
holiday homes is beginning. The Morell lady,
who departs with her family to take up resi-
dence at her house at Mornington, said au
revoir to a hundred friends at an afternoon
tea-party at the Quamby Club. Lounge- and
reception-rooms were decked with masses of
gladioli, hydrangea, roses and lilies. The
hostess wore bottle-green georgette with a
straw hat of the same tone, and her daughter
Sheila sported patterned chiffon topped by
a black hat. Mayoress Luxton, several wives
of knighted citizens, Mrs. Robert Knox, in
array of fawn georgette and matching mil-
linery, and Mrs. James Purves were there.
Charity Christmas jollifications are in full
swing. The Melbourne Hospital Red Cross
canteen helpers spread festivity for 600 out-
patients in their department during the
week. There were feast and gifts for every-
one ; and for kiddies extra fun in a real
tree laden in the good old way 8.D., signi-
fying before depression.
Tennis-players from other States who
came here in search of championship honors
had some recompense for bad weather and
little sport in a dance at the Kooyong club-
house. Mrs. G. Cook and Helen Sage
arranged the floral setting, in which Christ-
mas lilies and red-hot pokers figured. Mrs.
R. R. Harper was there in draperies of blue.
Miss N. Hall (N.S.W.) was in blossom-
patterned chiffon; Mrs. Gerald Patterson,
who was accompanied by her husband,
sported jade jewellery as relief to her frock
of black lace.
The Norman Brookeses collected the visiting
players and some locals for an afternoon at
their seaside home at Frankston. Though
cards and dancing had to be substituted
for tennis and swimming, owing to the damp-
ness, the mingling was an even greater success,
delightful as this informal annual party
always is. Mrs. Brookes aired chiffon in
black and white, and her daughter Cynthia,
a debutante of this season, carried out the
magpie tones in her smart costume. Hersey
was in a pretty frock of flowered ninon, and
Elaine completed the family, wearing a
jumper-suit of peach-pink touched up with
bjue. The L. A. Bakers, Mr. and Mrs.
O Hara Wood, the G. A. Cooks, Mr.
and Mrs. Jack Crawford (N.S.W.), Mrs.
R. Conway (N.S.W.), in cornflower-blue up-
holstery, Gwen Griffiths (S.A.) and Mrs.
Buttsworth (N.S.W.) were of those who
journeyed to partake of the hospitality at
Cliff House.
The Rev. Charles Tregear tied the knot
between his son Surgeon-Lieutenant A. E.
Tregear and Kathleen Estelle, eldest daugh-
ter of the R. J. Youngs, of Horsham, at the
Horsham kirk. The bride’s ivory satin gown
featured flounces, and hey veil was fine lacc.
Her attendants, Winnie BPlton and Phyllis
Tregear, wore frocks of ninon of the hue of
a La France rose, with straw hats and
sheafs of blending blossoms.
Fame has its drawbacks, as Air Commo-
dore Kingsford Smith discovered when he
married Mary Powell at the Collins-street
kirk. Dr. Borland forged the links in the
presence of a
crowded con-
gregation, with 1
an overflow of
about? 15,000
folk dutside —
99 per cent,
women. The
Ai r Force’s
guard of honor
saved the
newly -weds
from being
crushed to
death as they
left the
church, and
platoons of
police helped
to keep the
surging mass
at bay. An
hour before
the ceremony
guests had to
worm their way through a dense throng, and
people were perched on trees, roofs and the
tops of taxis, private cars and motor-lorries.
At No. 9 afterwards there was a dinner
and dance, and even there it took three
policemen to keep the multitude in order.
Mrs. Kingsford Smith, pictured here by
Howard Harris (Sydney), is the younger
daughter of the A. H. Powells, of Hawthorn.
She just missed making her twentieth birth-
day and her wedding a combined celebration.
Her husband’s commission as air commodore
was gazetted the previous day, and his tunic
bore the wide gold stripe of his rank. The
quartette of ’maids had a bit of limelight
on their own account, walking gracefully
and slowly up the aisle and taking up their
position at the chancel rails with the
groomsmen before the leading lady entered.
Mollie Mcßride (Adelaide), Kathleen
Gepp, Beris Kingsford Smith (San Fran-
cisco) and Margery Calthrop made an
effective background for the bride in their
long lace frocks, the same tint as the forget-
me-nots which formed their halo head-
dresses. Silver belts and shoes and great
sheaves of gladioli figured in their part of
the picture. Escorted by her father, _ the
little bride showed a gleam of pink chiffon
beneath a gown of white crepe georgette
heavily traced with silver thread cut on
princess lines, with train and short sleeves,
over which flowed a faint pink tulle veil
held in cap form by orange buds. She and
her two little train-bearers, Judith and
Diane Paterson, the youngsters in Kate
Greenaway frocks of blue net carried posies
of pink water-lilies.
There was almost a royal touch about the
nuptials. To satisfy the crowd that hung
about No. 9 for hours, the newly-weds stepped
out on the porch to receive a cheer, the lady
in her going-away frock of bois-de-rose chif-
fon Mrs. Powell received congratulations
in a gown of dahlia-hued .lace with deeper
hue of velvet toque. Also in the spotlight
was Mrs. Kingsford Smith, senior, who came
from Sydney accompanied by her eldest son.
Flight-lieutenant Ulm was best man. He
upset a bit of newspaper guff of a couple of
years ago to the effect that Mrs. Smith when
she greeted her son after one of his historic
flights murmured “God bless you, my boy.”
What she really did say was “You dirty little
beast, go and have a bath!” Colonel Bnns-
mead and Keith Smith made nice speeches,
and there were telegraphed congratulations
from Melba and from W. M. and Dame
Hughes. The honeymoon rises in Tassy.
The Hotel Windsor spread out yards of
red carpet on Thursday night for the recep-
tion after the wedding of Rita, only daughter
of Dr. and Mrs. M. A. Schalit, of St. Kilda,
and Dr. Arnold Richardson, younger son of
the Hugh Richardsons, of Caulfield. The
ceremony took place in the St. Kilda Syna-
gogue. Magnolia white satin was worn by
the handsome brunette bride, and her veil
descended from a coronet of orange blossoms.
Gwen and Merrie, twin daughters of Dr.
and Mrs. Leon Jona, and Esther Goldberg,
with little Elaine Richardson, were in the
cortege, the three ’maids wearing japonica
red georgette gowns, and the trainbearer
sporting a frilly pink frock.
The newsboys—3oo of them —had their
Christmas jollo in their own clubrooms,
where the Irvine lady handed out close on a
hundrec arizes won for sport, carpentry,
Sunday hool attendance and the much-
neglect*' art of thrift. Edith Onians, the
hon. sec. and tutelary deity of the newsboys
and their parents, gives the winners a wide
range of choice of their prizes. Sometimes
a new suit is chosen, and not infrequently
a boy will ask for something he knows his
mother wants for use in the home. Miss
Onians sees to it that he doesn’t lose by his
unselfishness.
There was a gathering at the Talbot
Colony for Epileptics during the week, when
president Donald Mackinnon issued invita-
tions to many to visit the institution. The
Miller lady, who was given a posy, launched
a sale of needlework and raffia articles which
helped to pay for a recently-purchased piano.
Knight Stephen Morell, the hon. treas., and
H’. I. Cohen, M.L.C., president of the Child
Welfare Association, paid tribute to the
.home and its helpers. At present there are
’ 145 persons in the colony.
Madame Alice Orff-Solscher, the German
operatic singer, was guest of honor at a lun-
cheon given by Mrs. Arthur Hordern at the
Lyceum Club and attended by many of our
naicest musical people.
The owners of the handsome new Arcade
Block Court have lent one of the shops to
the Ladies’ Work Association. The head-
quarters of the association being up a flight
of stairs the offer was very gratefully accepted,
for thereby the work of the very efficient
craftswomen who work under the manage-
ment of Mrs. E. O. MacDevitt is made much
more easily saleable. Exquisite lingerie,
children’s frocks and lovely woollies, ex-
pertly knitted, figure in the stock; and there
are home-made jams, sweets, biscuits, cakes
and Christmas puddings.
Fred Walker, of the Kraft cheese concern
and of other interests, got back last week
from a tour of ’Murca with his wife and
daughter Sheila. Wrecked on the Tahiti was
an incident of their trip; a faithful record
of the happening was obtained by Mr.
Walker’s movie-camera. Mrs. Walker, by
the way, was a Miss Perrin, one of the
family linked with the English sauce
manufacture.
- Once a resident of Sydney, where her
fine soprano voice first gained recognition,
Madame Evelyn Ashley, pictured here by
Marietta, is now established in this city as
a teacher. She
acquired most
of her vocal
knowle dgc
from that
sweet tenor
Philip Ne w-
bury. Madame
Ashley has
done much
touring about
the Common-
wealth and
.Maoriland and
was associated
in concerts
with Henri
V e r brugghen
in the days
when that
eminent Bel-
gi a n waved
his wand over
the N.S.W.
State Orches-
stra. She has given operatic recitals in Mel-
bourne, and recently she directed the
Elsternwick Op. Soc. in a capital perfor-
mance of “Miss Cherry Blossom.”
Pianist Roy Shepherd is due to return to
Melbourne next February after study in
England and on the Continent. Our new
city organist, Willie McKie, will arrive
about the same time. Both are Melburnians,
and both won the Clarke scholarship, entitling
them to three years at the Royal College
of Music. Mr. Shepherd studied first with
Harold Samuels, who is looked upon as the
greatest living exponent of Bach. Later he
went to Paris and had the distinction of
being the partner of Cortot in a two-piano
recital. A command concert at Windsor
Castle came his way, and a recent recital
in London returned a handsome profit.
The O’Dell Crowthers. with their daugh-
ters Pamela and Valerie and son George set
off for Europe last week. During the family s
wanderings the elder daughter will acquire
scholastic polish in Paris.
Mrs. Cecil le Plastrier, wife of the Consul
for Chile, who was knocked over by a motor-
waggon and died next day, was a daughter
of Dr. A. Naylor, of Loch.
There was a farewell at the Astoria Cafe
at the week-end to Dr. Lodewyckx, Associate-
Prof. of German at the Uni. The Institute
of Overseas Journalists, headed by its
president, J. Goode, said nice tilings about
the departing savant, who has been in these
parts for 16 years. He is off to Iceland tor
12 months.
Browning Mummery, the Melbourne tenor,
at present in the U.S.A., carolled excerpts
from “La Bolifeme” at the Maine musical
festival, and his singing was highly praised.
Mrs. Fred Payne, recently returned from
abroad, is staying at Menzies’.
Dr. Fleming Dunstan’s wife, just re-
turned from her first trip abroad, was form-
erly a student of the Albert-street Co-n., and
member of the chorus of a Melba
grand-opera co. She spent the greater part
of her period of travel picking up further
vocal knowledge. In London she studied for
a time with Dingh Gilly, having a daily
lesson from the famous teacher, who-, thanks
to-, the success of his pupil John Brownlee,
has a regular Australian clientele. Going to
the Continent Mrs. Dunstan studied m
Vienna, and later journeyed to Milan, where
she was coached in operatic art by Maestro
Albergoni.
Our Adelaide “Little Sister’" writes:
Lady Hore-Ruthven departed by the Orama on
Thursday. A truckful of lovely flowers was sent,
down to the boat by friends in the morning, and
her suite was massed with yellow gladioli and blue
delphiniums to match the general coloring. Her Ex.
had expressed a wish that no one should come down
to the Outer Harbor; but a number of returned
soldiers, accompanied by Miss Cleggett of the T.B.
Society, were on the wharf to wish her bon voyage,
and the vice-regal couple had a chat with them.
Lady Hore-Ruthven will return here in August, via
the Cape.
Mr. and Mrs. G. F. Hussey and their daughters
have returned to Jeffcott-street, North Adelaide, after
spending 12 months in the Eastern States.
At Commem., Chancellor George Murray announced
that the Langdon Bonython cheque for £40,000 to
provide for a Great Hall at the University had been
paid over. And Mr. George Gollin, a one-time Adelaide
merchant, now residing in London, has sent word
that there will be £20,000 in his will as endowment
for the recently-founded Chair of Economics. Build-
ing:) already extend from North-terrace to the
Torrens, and the exact site for the Great Hall :s
not yet settled. Meanwhile the money will be in-
vested.
St. Peter’s College Chapel witnessed a pretty
wedding when the Charles Neills’ only son, Douglas,
and Audrey, eldest daughter of the Robert Homburgs,
of Medindie, were married by Rev. K. J. F. Bicker-
steth. The bride wore a simple, beautifully-cut gown
of white satin with Chantilly-lace veil. Beryl
Homburg and Roma Neill were the ’maids in lettuce
green ninon, hats to match, and they carried bouquets
of white flowers. Arnold Rowley and Ronald Mc-
Donald supported the bridegroom. The reception was
at The Avenue, Medindie.
The Town Hall was crowded when a small maiden
of 11 years gave a violin recital that surprised
musical Adelaide. Little Marie Sleigh’s only teacher
has been her mother. Mr. Spruhan Kennedy was
her accompanist,
Mrs. Albion Tolley and her daughter-in-law, Mrs.
Lloyd Tolley, return to Adelaide this week after a
year’s absence in England.
And from Hobart: —
At the T.A.J.C. Guineas meeting Governor O’Grady
was farewelled by the officials of the T.R.C. and the
T.A.J.C., Mr. Tom Lyons and Dr. Lindsay Miller
being the respective spokesmen. Margaret O’Grady
sported a brown ensemble with beret in shades of
brown and cream-Angora. Black and white was much
worn, Mrs. Stoyles, Mrs, Tom Lyons, Mrs. Cottrell-
Dormer, Mrs. V. R. Ratten, Nancy Giblin, Mrs. T.
Fitzgerald and a number of other smart women
affecting inagpieish tones; but there were some attrac-
tive turn-outs in blue and beige checked tweed, and
the brown and beige range held their own very well.
The Victoria League farewelled his Ex. and
daughter Margaret in the Mayor’s courtroom at the
Town Hall, when Mrs. Stourton presented the
departing ones with an address of farewell bound in
leather.
Fred Brough took his amateur company of
players, including Miss O’Grady, to Launceston for
a one-night season of “The Lord of the Manor.’’
The Academy of Music was well filled and everybody
enjoyed the rollicking comedy. Profits are shared
by'the Queen Victoria Hospital, the Baby Health
Association and the Girl Guides.
The C. F. Parsons couple, of Bloomfield, Gretna,
announce a double-barrelled engagement in the family ;
their son Cecil to Esther, daughter of Mrs. and the
late A. Fenn-Smith, New Norfolk, and their daughter
Anita to Nicholas Stilwell, son of the late Col. and
Mrs. Stilwell, Hants, England.
The Tulloch-Scotts celebrated daughter Mavis’s 21st
birthday by a smart little dance at the Metropole,
Launceston. Mrs. Scott received in black lace and
georgette; her daughter wore shell-pink soft satin,
closely moulded to the knees, then' falling in volu-
minous folds at the ankles. The guests were almost
all young folks.
Among farewell attentions to his Ex. were a
couple of luncheons, one by the Travel League at
the Imperial, the other by the Chamber of Commerce
at Hadley’s. There were the usual speeches, with a
ring of sincerity in them not always noticed on such
occasions.
Mrs. Kenneth Cousens, of Honolulu, is in the north
on a visit to her daughter and son-in-law, Commander
and Mrs. Trevor Eardley-Wilmot.


aIL gone
..
a*?-.
%
HELUy
NURSERY WARE
Childhood fancies
(3j£AIRY CU p S an( J saucers,
plates and mugs, designed for
the House of Shelley by Mabel
Lucie Attwell, appeal to the
quaint fancies of childhood, and
later become a pleasant memory.
The lively imagination of Miss
Attwell delights the little people,
and the mark of Shelley, syn-
onymous with careful, old-time
craftsmanship, promises the
toughness requisite to survive
reasonable outbursts of nursery
high spirits.
Ask to see the latest
SHELLEY
Tea Sets - Nursery Ware
Coffee Sets- Zy Lucie Attwell
Morning Sets c-Hilda Cowham
Dainty White Dom e sticWare
• China * Jelly Moulds
MUTISM MADE
IM CASE Of ANY DIFFICULTY IN OBTAINING
WHITE TO : -
T*W. MEATH C CO. LTD,
232'CLAR.BMCE »T.
CHRISTMAS GIFTS
■ KSSEE
mm
its
-l=n =
.
V
\jilr
700 1/9 717 626
700—STAINLESS STEEL, Square Handle, Plain
Finish. TABLE KNIVES, 10/6 ; DESSERT KNIVES,
8/6 per half dozen. Post free.
179—STAINLESS STEEL, Oval Xylonite Handle,
Plain Finish. TABLE KNIVES, 12/6; DESSERT
KNIVES, IJ/6 per half dozen. Post free.
717—W. JNO. BAKER BEST STAINLESS STEEL
Fluted White Metal Handle. TABLE KNIVES, 23/6;
DESSERT KNIVES, 21/- per half dozen. Post free.
626—BEST STAINLESS STEEL, Highly Finished
and Grained Zylonite Oval Handle. TABLE KNIVES,
30/-; DESSERT KNIVES, 28/6 per half dozen.
Post free.
W. JNO. BAKER SHEFFIELD PLATE
SPOONS AND FORKS are plated with sterling silver
upon hard fine white metal; A 1 quality is extra
heavily silver-plated; A quality is heavily silver-
plated ; B quality is medium silver-plated.
A 1 A B
4 doz. \ doz. i doz.
Tea Spoons 13/6 12/6 10/6
Dessert Forks 23/6 21/- 18/6
Dessert Spoons 23/6 21/- 18/6
Table Forks 28/6 26/- 23/6
Table Spoons 28/6 26/- 23/6
Round Bowl Soup Spoons 28/6 26/- 23/6
POST FREE.
W. JNO. BAKER, 3 Hunter St., Sydney
FARM ACCOUNTS
The articles published on ‘‘The Bulletin s”
Land page have been reprinted and added to.
In these lessons the farmer who did not
previously know a thing about book-keeping
is carried along, step by and shown how
accounts are kept. Every entry is explained
in the simplest and clearest possible language.
The object is to enable the farmer to put his
business on a proper basis and keep it there.
In no other calling is it more necessary to
follow every branch of the business and see
where a profit is being made and where a loss.
Many a farmer has come to grief simply
through not knowing that he was going back
a little further every year. Had he known in
time he might have made changes that would
have saved the situation.
The trouble about most attempts to show the
farmer how to keep accounts is that they
assume he knows something about book-
keeping.
‘‘The Bulletin,” at the request of scores of
farm readers, decided to produce a cheap text-
book in which the whole business of book-
keeping would be dealt with from the very
beginning.
The little book is published at a price which
brings it within the means of everybody. It
will be sent from any ‘‘Bulletin” Office for
sixpence, to which must be added 2d. for
postage.
Though designed primarily for the man on
the land, it will be found just as valuable to
traders and others who have hitherto had only
a foggy idea about accounts.
PRICE SIXPENCE.
Legal Notices,
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1321 of 1930.
Between DONA MINETTA W’OOD Petitioner
And HAROLD OWEN WOOD Respondent.
To HAROLD OWEN WOOD late of Wollongong.
TAKE NOTICE that the said DONA MINETTA
WOOD has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a dissolution
of her marriage with you on the grounds of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three (3) years
and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said suit at
the proper office of this Honorable Court on or before
the eighteenth day of February One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-one and in the event of your
not so doing within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the Petition filed herein may
be had on application to the undersigned solicitor
free of charge.
Dated the twenty-seventh day of November One
thousand nine hundred and thirty.
For the Registrar,
[l.s.] C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
L. G. TANNER,
Solicitor for the Petitioner,
lie Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Alatrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 513 of 1930.
Between ANNIE CHRISTINA TAYLOR Petitioner
And ALBERT EDWARD TAYLOR Respondent.
To ALBERT EDWARD TAYLOR late of 96 Great
Buckinghai street Redfern Park Sydney.
TAKE NOTiGE that the said ANNIE CHRISTINA
TAYLOR has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or excuse.
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the Third day
of March One thousand nine hundred and thirty-one
and in the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the Petition filed
herein may be had on application to the undersigned
Solicitor free of charge.
Dated this Eighth day of December 1930.
BLOMFIELD & OLIVER,
• Solicitors for the Petitioner,
Bega.
By W. H. HILL & TRUMAN,
Solicitors,
10 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
For the Registrar,
C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 722 of 1930.
Between DOROTHEA LEONI McCRADIE Petitioner
And LESLIE KEITH McCRADIE Respondent.
To LESLIE KEITH McCRADIE late of Tenterfield
in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Dorothea Leoni
McCradie has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards, AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office of
this Honorable Court on or before the twenty-eighth
day of February one thousand nine hundred and
thirty-one and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further time
the petitioner will _ proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had on appli-
cation to the undersigned solicitor free of charge.
Dated this 2nd day of December, 1930.
E. A. LEASK, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
17 Martin Place, Sydney.
For the Registrar,
[l.s.] C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
REBECCA IRENE FRANCES PINKNEY
daughter of Caroline Frances Pinkney who died
intestate at Masterton New Zealand on the 4th April
1898 and to her children (if any) and to all persons
claiming by through or under them.
Pursuant to an Order made on the 30th October
1930 by a Judge of the Supreme Court of New
Zealand you are hereby called upon to send in to the
undersigned on or before the 31st January 1931
your claims to the estate of the abovenamed deceased
failing which the said estate will be distributed
amongst those entitled thereto disregarding your
claims.
Dated at Wellington this 3rd day of November,
1930.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
JN THE ESTATE OF JOHN WELLESLEY FLOOD
late of Rabaul deceased.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Deputy
Master of the Supreme Court of South Australia has
pursuant to “The Trustee Acts 1893-1928’’ directed
that creditors and others having claims against the
estate of John Wellesley Flood who died on the 21st
day of March 1929 at Rabaul in the Territory of New
Guinea and Probate of whose will was granted by
the Supreme CoUrt of South Australia to Percy Neville
Wood of Bank of Adelaide Unley in the said State of
South Australia Bank Manager on the sth day of
August 1929 are to send full particulars of their
claims to Eustace Alexander Genders Esquire Pirie
Street Adelaide aforesaid Solicitor on or before the
18th day of February 1931 otherwise they will be
excluded from the distribution of the estate.
Dated this 9th day of December 1930.
GENDERS, WULSON & PELLEW,
Selborne Chambers, Pirie Street,
Adelaide, South Aus.,
Solicitors for the Executor.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1314 of 1930.
Between EVANGELINE MARY KEILY Petitioner
And GEORGE ARTHUR KEILY Respondent.
To GEORGE ARTHUR KEILY late of N®. 65 Union
Street, South Lismore, N.S.W.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EVANGELINE MARY
KEILY has commenced a Suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a dissolution
of Marriage on the grounds of Desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or excuse.
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said Suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the thirty-first
day of March One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
one AND in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the Suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A copy of
the Petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned Solicitors free of charge.
Dated this 3rd day of December, 1930.
(Sgd.) A. M. NOWLAND,
Solicitor for the Petitioner,
111 Molesworth S.treet, Lismore.
By his Agents, C. T. Poole & Son &' Dickinson,
Solicitors, 16 Barrack Street, Sydney.
For the Registrar,
[l.s.] C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.


Missing Friends.
RYAN,
New
WILLIAM, formerly of Liverpool,
South 'Wales, draper, married
Catherine Farrelly 30th November, 1807.
Information as to his death or whereabouts
is required. He is entitled to money in the
intestate estate of his late wife, who died
14th April, 1929.
E. J. PAYNE,
Public Trustee,
107 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
YY7ILL GEORGE EDWIN WILLIAMS,
formerly of Bourke Street, Darlinghurst,
Sydney, or anyone knowing his present
whereabouts, kindly communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Wellington, New
Zealand.
J7LIZABETII DUNN or DUNNE (maiden name
Smyth, previous married names Dunstan and
Cooper), supposed to have died at Broken Hill or
Bourke, New South Wales, between 10 and 20 years
ago. It will be to the advantage of any descendants
of Mrs. Dunne or any other person who can furnish
reliable information regarding her or her descendants
to communicate with THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
AND AGENCY COMPANY, LIMITED, 412 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN STRINGED
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
HTHE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 10420/27 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of his rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Asbestos House, York and
Barrack Streets, Sydney. (Box 2133 L,
G.P.0., Sydney.)
TOOL HOLDER.
'"THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 10328/22 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of his rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
arid vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Asbestos House, York and
Barrack Streets, Sydney. (Box 2133 L,
G.P.0., Sydney.)
PROBAK
T H E B ETTE R
BLADE
FITS EVERY RAZOR
OF THIS TYPE
NEW AND OLD
If you use a two-edged razor, a PROBAK
Blade will fit it. No matter whether it
is of old design or new —this better
blade will fit it perfectly. And what
then ? Simply this : that you can get
from that razor, a shave such as you have
never enjoyed before! You feel your
razor slipping so smoothly, so easily,
over your face that you wonder if the
blade is doing its job—until you put up
your hand and feel your cheek.
This PROBAK edge ! It seems almost
unbelievable that steel can be honed
and ground to such a marvellous
degree of sharpness.
Buy a packet of PROBAK
Blades to-day. Sold every-
where at fixed prices : 1/9d.
the small packet; 3/6d. the
large.
MW
I
sa,
m
[MW?? 1
n
iiVW-i"
£>*
Rt°'
&5>
AU
*6l
15°
»0^
P-°
as?
Lf'i.' >'.>«
sr>-
i v„. -
K-
Kb'
ii&L*
PROBAK BLADES ARE MADE AND GUARANTEED BY THE AUTOSTROP SAFETY RAZOR CO. LTD.,
197-207 CITY ROAD, LONDON, E.C.I, AND DISTRIBUTED BY PHIPSON & COMPANY., LTD.
181, CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY, MANAGING AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA.
If any illustration in THE, BULLETIN takes your fancy,. write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
AS WE SAID BEFORE
This Page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
KILLING A PIG: A BUSH SKETCH.
This is the time of year when the thrifty
dweller in the bush who lias been pampering
the corpulent hog in the sty sliarpens the
family carving-knife and grinds a fresh edge
oh the unassuming but business-like wood-
axe. H'e also sends his eldest boy out to
look for tea-chest lead, and when that smart
youth returns .with a double armful, which
he. has “copped” from the neighbors’ ash-
heaps, he is belted with a strip of green-
hide for having lost the bullet-mould. Then
the rusty saucepan with the cracked bottom
is once more dragged forth to the light of
day, and loaded to the muzzle with lead and
old jam tins and set on the fire, while the
old man unhooks the gun from the wall and
abuses his wife for not knowing where the
caps are, and inquires “where the blazes
she put that there powder.” While the mur-
derous appliances are being found the lead
THE KIDS AND THE SAUSAGES—AND THE DOG.
“Let me carry them!”
“No, me!”
A divided honor.
They got there just the same:
[17/8/’89.]
melts, or is capsized by the pet goat, or is
heaved out at the back door by. the irate
house-mother because she wants the fire to
set her camp-oven on. If the melting process
is achieved without any fatalities, the hardy
bread-winner proceeds to burn many holes
in his clothes in the attempt to cast bullets.
He also, as a rule, drops several blobs oi
molten lead on his feet, and startles the
quiet atmosphere with a quantity of crack-
ling electric talk. If the house-dog takes
an interest in the proceedings, as he usually
does, he never fails to acquire a share of
the fluid metal on his moist and quivering
nostril, which draws from him- an agonised
howl as he runs between the baby’s^legs and
spills that infant rearwards into the boiler of
water that is being heated for the
retiring at the double as the child’s mother
pursues him with the rake. When the old
man has succeeded in moulding a biillet, in
shape something between a broad bean and a
quartz crystal, he loads up his gun.
All the neighbors within a seven-mile
radius are now assembled, a-nd each one of
them has eleven separate and.?distinct theories
on the subject of hog-sla'Ughter. If the
owner of the about-to-be-murdered porker
adopted any one of these plans he would be
regarded as a hopeless idiot by all the remain-
ing citizens. But he doesn’t. His method
of proceeding differs totally from that of
each and every one of his advisers, and is
looked upon with utter contempt by them all.
Every one of them wants the privilege of
shooting the obese animal, but the proprietor
proudly avers his intention of performing
the onerous duty himself. As he shoulders
the gun and, with, a tremendous assumption
of cool indifference, proceeds towards the
sty, followed by 23 neighbors and his wife
and family and the pet goat in skirmishing
order, the excitement is intense. The affair
is positively thrilling, and the only indi-
vidual whose nerves are not in a painful
state of tension is the condemned quadruped
himself. He looks up in a mildly inquiring
way as the procession nears his residence,
and then shuts his eyes again with an air
of bored indifference. Then, amid dead
silence, the chief slaughterer, after a long
aim with the gun, resting on the logs of the
sty, pulls the trigger, and —the gun misses
fire. “Powder must be damp,” he says. He
puts, on a fresh cap and “tries her again,”
this time without any other formality than
just pulling the trigger while the barrel is
sagging round in a promiscuous and strictly
impartial way. She goes off this time, with
a roar like a Nordenfeldt, and the bullet
chips the left ear off one of the- spectators.
With an unreasonable display of acrimony
this person takes the gun away from the
owner and bangs it against a big rock till
it is fit only for kindling-wood and gaspipe.
Then another spectator, whose feelings have
been wrought yip to a state bordering on
frenzy, climbs into the sty and brains the
pig with a mortising-axe, which he has
brought on the off-chance that it might be
useful.
This diverts the general attention from
the gun-smasher, and the defunct porker
now gets the undivided attention of the mul-
titude. H'e is soused in hot water and cold
water, and dragged through the sand, and
finally dumped down on a sheet of bark. All
hands then set to work at tearing handfuls
of hair from the carcase, and in two hours
and a half quite a considerable quantity has
been removed and the performers ooze pig's
bristle and perspiration at every pore. But
the majority of the bristles won’t come out,
because the water was too hot, as one man
says, or too blamed cold, as another opines,
or because the blanky fools don’t none of
’em know how to scald a gory pig, as a dis-
passionate observer remarks. The disem-
bowelling process is next performed, and the
innocent cause of all the trouble is then
suspended to a bough, and left alone for the
night. The spectators gradually disperse, and
as night’s sable mantle falls on an atmo-
sphere of gore and steam and hog’s lard and
swear words, the family retire to rest. Gener-
ally somebody comes along about midnight:
and removes the silent sufferer from the
scene of his woes. In that case the amount
of profanity and undiluted misery in that
household the next day is something awfui
in its immensity. But if the victim does
not fall a prey to body-snatchers, there is
even a greater amount of hard talk per-
petrated during the dissecting process. Noth-
ing in this world so demoralises a man, takes
the virtues out of him and shakes up his
original sin as cutting up a pig. The only
other occasion on which he shows signs of
a similar depravity is when the hams and
bacon begin to show signs of decrepitude,
become off-color, so to speak, ere mortifica-
tion sets in. The hog-cultivator then “chucks
the whole bloomin’ lot out,” while indulging
in parti-colored oatlis.
After this he is a miserable being until he
has paid 255. for another pig. When it has
eaten about seven pounds’ worth of corn, the
matinee performance is repeated, and is
received with undiminished enthusiasm.
Age cannot wither, nor custom stale
Its infinite variety.— Bacon-Shakspeare.
All Chee.
A Melbourne lady lately returned home
after a brief absence and found the front door
open, most of the portable goods packed up
for removal; and a gentlemanly-looking per-
son on the premises. As she entered he took
off his glossy hat and explained matters. He
had been passing by, it seemed, and, detect-
ing signs of burglary, he entered and en-
gaged in a desperate conflict with a rough-
looking malefactor, whom he at length routed
with great slaughter. Then he stood guard
over the property until the return of the
rightful owner, and was pleased to say, etc.
Here he took off'his hat. again, and the flur-
ried lady suddenly noticed, with a shriek of
dismay, that it'was her husband’s hat, and
that he had her husband’s clothes on, and
that her husband’s watch-chain was hanging
out of his pocketwhereupon the gentle-
manly person sprinted away down the street
and vanished. He was captured later on.
All of which goes to show that politeness is
not always profitable. If he hadn’t taken
off the borrowed hat so effusively, the chances
are that no special attention would have
been drawn to it and the rest of his bor-
rowed plumes. ■ - r
Dear Bulletin, —You have not yet dis-
covered tlie meanest man. He lives in
the Goulburn Valley, and owns a magni-
ficent , orchard. Last grape-cutting a child
of his, playing with a dog, fell into the
river and was drowning when an old man
went pluckily to the rescue and brought
the little girl safely to 'land. What did
the wealthy father give the hero? Guess
again. A recipe for a bad cold.— Snell.
I [Sappho Smith] don’t see much in
children’s witticisms, as a rule, but some
bantlings do 1 certainly give original defini-
tions of things. A small Australian, asked
what Lot’s wife was turned into, said
promptly, “A cocked hat.” The meaning of
the word “gentleman” lie discovered to be
“A man who carries a stick,” and a dog
was “An animal that you tie up.” Another
small ‘ Sydneyite was made aware that his
mother was having a , birthday and he had
not! a gift. After offering her in vain every
toy in his possession, lie thought a moment
then said hopefully : “I know what I’ll do
—l’ll take a dose of castor-oil for you!”
Talk about the stuff martyrs are made of!
DESERTED.
The stockyard is empty and dim and drear;
Here and there is a gap in the rails,
But I can see as we stand a-near
Moving steeds when the daylight fails:
I can see as it were- in. .dreaming, dreaming,
Merry riders that mount and meet,
Sun on their saddles glea'ming, gleaming,
Red hot dust wrapping their horses’ feet.
The world is silent under the stars,
And yet there comes 1 to my ear alone ‘
The tiny clink of the snafflebars
As the eager heads are- upward thrown ;
And the sound of- the muffled lioof-beat after
Strikes like a hammer on heart and brain,
And the faint, far echo ,of drifting laughter
Wakens the strength of a sleeping pain.
Come, come away from the lonely home,
Softly, softly as mourners tread;
The world is wide, there is space to roam
Without awaking the sleeping dead—
Till the last of the scattered flowers shall
wither,
Till the last of the stockyard rails decay,
Till the old walls crumble and fall together
The ghosts will move in the moonlight grey.
GLENROWAN.


Bank of New Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital £6,858,113
Reserve Fund and Undivided
Profits 4,173,156
£11,031,269
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World. Every description of Banking Business
conducted.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.O.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
J '4
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 4f Bridge Street, Sydney.
600 INCREASE
in one month
in one city alone!
Established
Othe Brisbane (Courier
Is increasing its leadership in all parts of
Queensland—the public support extended
to the State’s oldest and most influential
newspaper is growing greater each month.
News and features from the Courier do
not now appear in any country newspaper,
and country residents are therefore
demanding The Brisbane Courier more
insistently than ever before.
So if you want Queenslanders to buy
YOUR goods the quickest and most
effective way to reach the largest number
of prospective purchasers is to advertise in
oThe Brisbane (Courier
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F 3906
London Agent: H. C. GRELLIER, 173
Fleet-street.
1846.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are coMially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
11l
HU
iifllf
iSfi
IV
ii
I :W W |i|ir « t! I
• mmLJVLn XI
• -lWriß—■liii
if
l; ;T
# .n
fl nfs!: ill: :f
lUS-A- CANADA- EUROPE
Travel round the Sunny South Seas and
enjoy, not some, but every possibility of your
overseas trip. U.S.A., Canada, or Europe
may be either reached, or happily rounded off,
by a tour through the South Sea Islands, and
splendid accommodation on Royal Mail Liners
obtained with the expert assistance of Union
Company Officials.
Book at 247 George Street, Sydney; 59 William Street, Melbourne; or with
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane —Adelaide —Perth.
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN
AND UNION ROYAL NAIL LINES
IW
Visit the Island
Wonderlands of
the Beautiful
South Seas.
Invigorating ocean voyage, then vacation
delights unsurpassed. Swimming, surfing,
inter-island sightseeing, quaint and inter-
esting native life and customs; multi-
colored coral lagoons in a romantic
setting of incomparable beauty.
Trips 2 to 4 2 weeks’ duration.
Apply for illustrated Pamphlet No. 52/G to
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY,
LTD.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
Ask for “The B. P. Magazine”
. —!/• a copy.
BANK
'' * 4
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED IS 17.
M' itli which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital..
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liabiilty
jk
£7,500,000
0,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 .. .. .. .. £89,228,378
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DA V ID SON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
094 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL - - 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Dtvcciovs •
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon, JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE; Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts ot
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
RAYOVAC
Flashlights “ RadioTubes .
ELECTRIC TORCH
With the
ROTOMATIC SWITCH
The GREAT Battery Economist
The constant purchase of
batteries is due in no small
way to the light being turned
on accidenaltly The
ROTOMATIC SWITCH in-
sures you against waste of
batteries Always lights
when you want it. . . . . .
Positive prevention against
accidental battery discharge.
Manufacturer’s Representative
W. C. SCHWAB
Box 1821, G.P.0.,
Melbourne, Vic.
FRENCH BATTERY CO.
CHICAGO U.S.A.
J -4
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Übe
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com*
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion" is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
THE PATRIOT
DIRECT MEDIUM Tg WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
50
Subj ects Weekly.
ALSO COLORED PICTURES
WORTH FRAMING.
ON SALE AT
ALL
NEWSAGENTS
EACH WEEK.
“The Australasian”
The Paper all Australians appreci-
ate, and their friends overseas, too!


M
LEIPZIG SPRING
TRADE FAIR, 1931
(GERMANY).
A
Incorporating Great Engineering Fair until March 11.
The Greatest Trade Exhibition in the World.
Despite the heavy and almost impossible Australian tariff legislation, Australian
business men and oversea buyers can profitably visit the 1931 Spring Fair at
Leipzig.
German manufacturers have marked their goods at such prices as to make
all purchases at the Spring Fair sell at a profit.
This means that the middleman is eliminated, and you deal direct with the
manufacturer.
The Great Spring Fair begins on MARCH 1, 1931.
INQUIRIES INVITED. All Official Data, Transport Concessions, Hotel Accom-
modation, Rail Service, etc., including Letters of Introduction, will be gladly
given—free of cost.
A uthorised Representatives:
LARS G. BRUNDAHL,
121 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
(’Phones: 84006 and MW2201)
C. N. KEPPEL,
Box 585 D, G.P.0., Melbourne, Vic.
SUMMER IS ALWAYS SPRING
at
Mt. Buffalo, National Park, Victoria.
Throughout the summer months the cool mountain air is scented
with the sweet breath of spring. Last summer’s maximum tempera-
ture was only 78.
Pleasant, easy walks to vantage points commanding wonderful
panoramic views, boating, fishing and swimming in placid Lake
Catani, and the service and appointments of the renowned Chalet
make Mt. Buffalo the ideal summer resort.
Inquire at the
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
Martin Place, Sydney; or Queen’s Walk, Melbourne.
BREAK O'DAY
BY JOHN CRISP
Illustrations by Scot field
Synopsis : Dan Dighy, a giant of a
man, is transported to Tasmania for
smuggling. He escapes to the main-
land, is again in trouble, and is being
taken back to Adelaide. On the way
lie refuses to go any further, and is
chained to a tree. He is saved from
dingoes by Hawke and Hales, two
other fugitives. He. takes command
of them, and formulates a scheme to
seize a cutter and sail to Hew Zealand.
He includes Sam Morgan, another
escapee, in the party. They get away
from the S. Australian coast safely,
though short of food and water; but
only Digby reaches. New Zealand. He
soon starts trading and acquiring
land, and has had much success when
he meets and marries Margaret Cam-
eron. . Bess is born, the mother dies, and
the girl grows up with her father at
Maxwelton, until she is sent to an Eng-
lish school. Allan Macalister, a young
Highland shepherd, had got work near
Maxwelton, and throws himself into
the Land League movement to have
the big estates cut up among small
settlers. He has a son, Malcolm
Cwsar, brought into the world with
great difficulty by an eccentric doctor
and Old Mother Deans. Allan’s em-
ployer, Sir Alfred Richmond, Bart.,
is rescued from financial difficulties by
Bess, who proposes, marries him and
soon has him in Parliament and the
Hermitage and its racing stables on a
sound footing. Regarding Macalister
as a danger, she discharges him. A
little later the manager, Wiltshire, also
goes, and Angus Ross., an uncanny
figure with strong religious feelings,
takes his place. Macalister secures a
place of . his own, Raeburn, ■ and in-
creases his Land League activities.
Chapter XYI.
THE Maxwelton Town Hall was a
weatherboard building that might have
been mistaken for a Wesleyan Church
It was perched at the top of a hill that over-
looked the river to the north and fell away
to the east to become the valley wherein
was situated the business part of the town.
In the year 1877 it had four churches and
six hotels, a doctor, a lawyer and a chemist,
two banks and two undertakers; and all the
customary trades were well represented.
The inhabitants were Scotch, Irish and
English, with here and there a Chinaman
industriously cradling dirt by the riverside,
and winning not enough gold to keep a white
man in tobacco. The Shamrock Hotel was
the leading hostelry, and its proprietor,
Patrick Emmet O’Gorman, was the first
mayor.
The Shamrock Hotel stood in the little
triangle which was the heart of the town,
and directly opposite, on the other side of
the triangle, stood the Boyne Water, the
town’s second-best hotel, owned and kept
by Billy Mcßride, from Londonderry. Mc-
Bride was as lean as O’Gorman was lumpy,
and as close-fisted as O’Gorman was gener-
ous; but, being the town’s leading Orange-
man, he had his following.
It was the morning of the 12th of July,
the day fixed for the public meeting called
by the Land League, and the dawn was
still only breaking as Billy Mcßride ran
an orange flag to the peak of the flagstaff
that adorned the roof of the Boyne Water
Hotel, whistling as he did so a few bars
of his favorite anthem. The hoisting com-
pleted, he turned towards the Shamrock
Hotel, and in a loud voice challenged all
and sundry within its walls to step across
the road and attempt to lower the emblem
of Ulster. This done, he retired to his bar
and fortified himself with a hot rum, keep-
ing a good lookout through the front window;
then he picked up from behind the counter
a stout blackthorn shillelagh, drank some
more rum, and expressed his astonishment
to the bottles arrayed behind the counter
that O’Gorman had not come forth to the
attack.
When the flag had been flying unchal-
lenged for the best part of an hour, Billy
was well-nigh beside himself with suspense
and hot rum. Such a delay had never
occurred before during his ten years’ occu-
pancy of the Boyne Water. Twice a year
the thing had happened as sure as day-
break. At dawn on the 17th of March up
would go O Gorman’s green flag, and within
nve minutes out would burst Billy Mcßride
tiom the Boyne Water, his pockets filled
Witn stones and the shillelagh swinging
round his head, at his heels some half-
dozen of his supporters, to meet in the
middle of the road O’Gorman and his hosts.
When they clashed with whacks, curses and
kicks, amid the crowing of cocks and the
barking of dogs, there was no letting up
by either side until both sides were defeated.
And the same thing happened, with the order
reversed, pn the 12th of July.
Billy Mcßride was by this time
thoroughly overcome. The flag had been
flying now a full hour and the Shamrock
was still as silent as the grave. “There can
be but one explanation for the likes of this,”
said Billy to the bottles—“O’Gorman must
be dead!”
But 0 Gorman was not dead. He was
sitting in his private room beside the bar.
His elbows rested on the table in front of
him, his face supported by his hands. He
was staring straight ahead at the wall be-
yond.
A terrible thing had come to him. He
had been sitting there for hours—ever since
Dr. Neild had left, telling him not to be a
damned fool, and saying that one day was
as good as another on which to be born or
buried; saying, too, that Irishmen ought to
be ashamed of themselves for bringing their
squalid quarrels from overseas. He was
thinking that Sam Neild must have had
a drop too much after the baby was born,
or he wouldn’t be talking such nonsense.
At last O’Gorman lifted his face from
his hands, and gazed for a long time at
the ceiling. He asked Heaven what he had
done that a son should be born to him on
the cursed 12th of July. He had called
up his past life, sin by sin, but could recall
no act that could reasonably be expected to
have such a terrible consequence.
From the evening of the tenth, when
Mrs. O’Gorman had taken to her bed and
sent for old Mother Deans, the child had
been expected. Everything was prepared
for its advent, the doctor was at hand wait-
ing for the call, but nothing happened.
Not even when darkness fell on the evening
of the eleventh did O’Gorman entertain a
misgiving, but when the clock at the top
of the stair, a large, elaborate clock, a
timekeeper second only to the sun himself,
struck eleven, O’Gorman, feeling that the
dread twelfth was at hand, mounted the
stairs to the door of his wife’s bedroom
and knocked.
The door was opened sufficiently for
Mother Deans to present her fighting fea-
tures to the intruder, and harshly inquire,
“What do you want?”
“What do I want?” said O’Gorman, speak-
ing in a hoarse whisper. “ ’Tis to know
what is all this delay about?”
Mother Deans merely snapped “Go to
Hell!” and closed the door.
But O’Gorman was not the man to permit
an old harridan to get rid of him in that
way, so he turned the door-handle and
stepped into the room.
“Dr. Neild,” he exclaimed, as he crossed
the threshold, “do you know what time it
is?”
Sam Neild, who was busy, did not reply.
Mother Deans, her eyes ablaze and brand-
ishing her arms, made at O’Gorman, who
retreated before the menace, but managed
to make one request before the door was
again closed on him. “Doctor,” he pleaded,
“for th’ love o’ God let me have a word
wid you.”
Dr. Neild followed the distressed husband
through the doorway to the darkened pas-
sage without, and asked, “What’s all this,
O’Gorman? Have you gone”
“Doctor,” interrupted O’Gorman, “don’t
ye know what time it is? Don’t ye
know”
“What’s the matter with you? Are you
mad?” the doctor demanded.
“I am. I’m mad about this delay. Don’t
ye know ’tis half after eleven, and the child
must be here before twelve.”
The doctor was startled. He stared
through the gloom at O’Gorman’s sweat-
bedewed brow, and wondered if the level-
headed Irishman could suddenly have be-
come insane.
O’Gorman, understanding the gesture,
made haste to explain. “To-morrow,
Doctor,” he said, “is Orangeman’s day,
and ’twould be a terrible curse upon me if
that child, boy or girl, was born on it, wid
Mcßride’s dirty flag flying and me the
laughing-stock of the place.”
Dr. Neild turned impatiently away, and
made for the bedroom door; but O’Gorman
caught his arm and whispered hurriedly in
his ear, “Let you have the child .here
before twelve, and I’ll give you fifty pounds
over and above the fee; and I’ll give the
old woman the deeds of her cottage, tell
her that.”
Sam Neild grinned. “I could do with the
money, O’Gorman,” he said, “but I can’t
see much hope.”
“Is there any chance, then, Doctor,”
said O’Gorman, clutching at a straw, “of
carrying over till the thirteenth?”
As the doctor opened the bedroom door
he flung over his shoulder, “O’Gorman,
don’t be a damned fool!”
Pat O’Gorman, muttering imprecations
against the laws of nature, punctuated with
ejaculatory prayers, sought his private room
beside the bar. He slumped into the chair
beside the table, and buried his face in
his hands. The old clock at the head of
the stairs stressed the silence with its
deliberate tick-tock; and every tick and
every tock fell on his ears like a hammer
blow. He clung to the forlorn hope that
a miracle would happen, and he prayed for
it, invoking the saints, and in particular
Saint Patrick, to defeat the enemy that
was striving to put a curse upon a son of
Erin and of the Church. But the old
clock beat on, chanting to him now “No
hope, no hope!”
Only a few minutes and clang would go
the hour. Orangeman’s day, and his eighth
child! His head was bowed over the table:
hope was abandoned; he was oblivious to
everything but the dread thoughts that
raced through his brain. He would never
again hold his head up in the town. This
to happen when everything was working so
well for him! To-morrow night was the
Land League meeting. He. had prepared a
fine speech to support Allan Macalister;
for was he not the league’s strongest sup-
porter in Maxwelton? But how could he
face a multitude of citizens after such a
thing had happened to him? Billy Mcßride
and his tribe would be there to jeer at him,
and what could he answer? It was terrible,
terrible!
Tick-tock, tick-tock—clang!
O’Gorman clutched his hair and called
aloud, “ ’Tis all over!”
But there was another sound that rose
even above the striking of the clock. There
were hurried feet on the stair and a harsh
voice calling to him, “O’Gorman! Are
you there, O’Gorman?”
O’Gorman scrambled from his chair and
threw open the door.
“A fine son, O’Gorman,” said old Mother
Deans; “and that’s the cottage for me and
fifty pounds for Sam Neild.”
“Too late,” groaned O’Gorman, consulting
his watch. “ ’Tis a quarter after one, and
I’m broken-hearted.”
“Listen, you damn fool,” rasped the mid-
wife. “Your clock is striking twelve, and
the child was born five minutes ago.”
Old Mother Deans placed her hands on
O’Gorman’s shoulders and peered into his
eyes.
“Have you ever known your clock to be
wrong, O’Gorman?”
“I have not.”
“How could it be wrong now, then?”
“Sure it couldn’t be.” O’Gorman caught
the twinkle in the old woman’s eyes, and
a great light burst on him.
“You’ve known your watch go wrong,
O’Gorman?”
“I have that.”
Then the watch is wrong, and the clock
is right, and you owe me the cottage
and Sam Neild fifty pounds, with the child
as Irish and green as yourself!”
“The saints be praised,” breathed O’Gor-
man as he unlocked the bar. “The old
witch has saved me from the public. None
need know of the curse that’s put upon me.
’Tis a great deal that. She shall have the
cottage, and Neild his fifty pounds. ’Tis
worth it.”
Chapter XYII.
“So that’s what it is!” said Billy Mcßride,
slapping his thigh, as he caught sight of
the face of old Mother Deans at an up-
stairs window of the Shamrock Hotel.
“The youngster’s arrived; and I’ll be bound
it arrived this morning. Did you ever see
anything like it?” Billy inquired of his
hilarious reflection in the mirror that hung
over the mantelpiece. “That’ll be the end
of Pat—he’ll be laughed out of the place,”
and Billy proceeded to step dance around
the clinking bottles.
Mcßride was interrupted in his celebration
by the entrance of a drayman, who inquired
heavily the reason of the landlord’s joy,
and why the flag was flying on the roof.
“Don’t you know what day this is?”
asked Billy, placing a bottle and two glasses
on the counter.
“O’ course I do; ’tis Wednesday,” slowly
replied the drayman.
“Ha, ha!” chortled Billy. “Wednesday,
yes; but it’s a deal more nor that. ’Tis
Orangeman’s day, man; the greatest day o’
the year.
The drayman let that sink in while he
emptied his glass. “Ha!” he remarked at
length, “I wouldn’t ha’ known it. I thought
you alius ’ad a fight on Orangeman’s day.”
“I’ll tell you something,” confided Billy
refilling the glasses.
Billy’s promise to tell him something
passed the drayman by. “What—ain’t Pat
O’Gorman goin’ to ’ave a go at yer this
year?” he asked in bitter disappointment.
“You wait till I tell you something.”
The drayman was not ready yet for more
information. He growled at his glass.
“Funny thing it’s Orangeman’s day and no
fight! Never bin like this afore, an’ it’s
near eight o’clock.”
“Have another drink,” Billy suggested,
his, eyes dancing in his head, “and wait till
I tell you something.”
The offer of another drink astonished the
drayman into silence. Mcßride, he thought,
must have some rare news to be offering a
free drink out of his turn.
“I’ll tell you what it is,” grinned the
landlord. “Pat O’Gorman’s come round to
my way o’ thinking. His wife had a young-
ster this morning. Now, what do you think
o’ that?”
The drayman, who was about to place
the glass to his lips, returned it to the
counter, his face beginning to crease.
“So Pat and me won’t fight no more;
never no more,” Billy rattled on. “His
wife’s goin’ to have a youngster every 12th
of July, to show that Pat’s become one of
King Billy’s men.”
So noisily appreciative of the news did
the drayman become that before he left to
spread the tidings he had secured another
free drink.
Happenings were rare in Maxwelton, and
piquant news was always at a premium;
wherefore the word of what had happened to
O’Gorman was carried round and through
the town with a rapidity unknown to tele-
graph messengers, and the day was still
young when the last householder to receive
the news had held his sides and rocked.
All day long the Boyne Water and the
Shamrock did a roaring trade. All day


THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know —from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
The Paper you should first select in Queensland for any Advertising
Campaign is—
The “Daily Mail ”
BRISBANE
Results count, and in Queensland the “Daily Mail ’ is demon-
strating its supremacy in this respect every day. The Daily Mail
is one of Brisbane’s two morning papers, and although more than
50 years younger than its contemporary, its net circulation—
both city and country—has been proved by unaccepted challenge
to be greater than any other Queensland daily.
Rate Cards, Net Daily Circulation Certificate and Specimen Copies
from:—
Brisbane Daily Mail, Ltd.
Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
London: R. B. BRETT
and SON, 30-34 New
Bridge Street, E.C.4
long was O’Gorman’s bar visited by well-
wishers, among them many debtors, who
came to drink the baby’s health and to
hear O’Gorman with his own lips say,
“ ’Twas born on the ilivinth, shortly before
midnight,” thus giving the lie to the rumor
that was all over the place.
As the day wore on the little triangle
became the scene of many private fights,
with now and then a general demonstration
of fists and boots in which anyone could
join, and with the approach of evening the
English and Scottish citizens were convinced
that it was more than a little unfortunate
that the day chosen for the Land League
meeting should be an Irish hate-day.
The Irishmen of Maxwelton were among
the most intelligent of the community; and
many of them had grown rich through their
sagacity and hard work. Men they were
whose words were listened to and whose
opinions were valued on the questions and
problems that confronted the colonists; yet
twice a year they permitted themselves to
become the playthings of inherited hate.
Thus it was that when Allan Macalistei
rode into Maxwelton in the early evening
he found the place humming with life. Go-
ing straight to the Shamrock Hotel to meet
his Moana colleagues who had already
arrived by coach, he was met at the door
by the schoolmaster, Andrew Logan, who
greeted him dismally with, “Well, well,
Allan, it’s an awful pity that this meeting
was fixed for to-day.”
“Why so?” asked Allan.
“Well, well, man, don’t you see that the
town is full of tipsy Irishmen? It’s Orange-
man’s day.”
“Oh, ay!” said Allan, “but that’ll be all
right. They’re all friends of the league.
They’ll roll up to the meeting for sure.”
“That’s just what I’m afraid of,” replied
the lugubrious dominie.
“Come away, man; a whisky’ll cheer
you up,” said Allan, placing his hand on
Logan’s shoulder, and guiding him into the
hotel.
Chapter XVIII.
The Maxwelton town hall was crowded
when on the stroke of eight Allan and his
supporters, led by the Mayor, Mr. Patrick
O’Gorman, filed on to the platform. Not
only had the great majority of the towns-
men rolled up, but the farmers had ridden
and driven in for miles around.
Allan took his seat at the right of the
Mayor; and because he had heard a month
since that Lady Richmond had given it out
that she would attend the meeting, he
immediately cast his eyes around the dimly
lighted hall to find her. But she was not
there. For no reason that he could explain,
he suffered a pang of disappointment. When
he had been told that she would attend,
Allan had girded up his loins, so to speak,
for it was she he had always visualised as
the symbol of the thing he fought against;
and, furthermore, he felt that her presence
would spur him on to do his very best.
His most telling periods he had intended
to address to her; and she had not come.
He could not understand why, but he felt
that she had, her absence, cast a slur
on the cause and on himself. Of course
it was not usual for women to attend
political meetings; but Bess Richmond was
not a usual woman. He would give some-
thing to know what it was that kept her
away. Had he been told the reason, he
would have refused to believe that anything
so monstrous could be afoot.
The Mayor, having rapped loudly on
the table before him to command silence,
rose and said: “Gentlemen, we are here this
evening, many of us as members of the
Land League and many, I trust, that will
be members before the meeting closes, to
listen to an address by a gentleman who is
well and favorably known throughout
Stop that noise down there! Stop it at
once! Where do you think you are? As
I was saying, gentlemen, we are here to
listen to Mister If you can’t behave
yourselves like gentlemen down there, let
you leave the hall. I know who ye are.
Mister Macalister, gentlemen, is going to
I know who’s making the disturbance. It’s
the dirty faction that’s a curse”
O’Gorman stopped; his cheeks paled and
his eyes blazed; the audience was hushed.
A fife and drum band at the back of the
hall had struck up “The Boyne Water.”
“I declare to my God,” shouted O’Gor-
man, “this is an infamous outrage, and
1”....
The rest was a total loss. The Orange-
men had begun to sing in time with the
band, and the Greenmen were hoo-rooing
to get at them. A stone crashed through
a window, narrowly missed O’Gorman’s head
and shattered the lamp that hung above the
platform. In that moment O’Gorman saw
Billy Mcßride at the back of the hall
conducting the band, his face split with
laughter. With a frightful imprecation
O’Gorman leapt from the platform, and,
surging through the crowd, made for the
enemy. Those who saw him coming
squeezed out of his way; those who were
too late were hurled aside by his charging
bulk.
The hall seethed. The skin of civilisation
was sloughed. The crowd was a confusion
of wild men contending at cross purposes.
Some were fighting to get out. Others,
being squeezed out, were fighting to stay
in. The Orangemen were fighting to hold
their space at the back of the hall, and
damaging each other in the process; the
sons of the South, striving to get at them,
surged from every direction, and obstructed
each other’s progress. Stones were hurled
through the windows and at the lamps that
hung from the rafters in the bod|y of the
hall.
Allan and his colleagues left the building
as soon as the platform lamp was over-
thrown. They made their exit by the ante-
room door, along with many noncombatants
from the body of the hall. This exodus of
the neutrals made sufficient room for the
fighters to become effective, and they would
have inflicted considerable damage on one
another if the lights had held. As it was,
they were obliged to distinguish friend from
foe by voice and accent, until their eyes
became accustomed to the darkness.
Meantime the ante-room was in flames;
but no one was aware of it. The bowl of
the platform lamp had been hurled through
the door into the room, where was stored
such inflammable material as colored paper
used for decorative purposes. The wick
continued to burn while the escaping oil
formed a lake about the flame.
When O’Gorman leapt from the platform
to get at Billy Mcßride, Billy did not await
the onslaught, but wriggled through the
crowd like an eel in an attempt to outflank
the big man from Cork and take him in the
rear. O’Gorman, when he discovered that
the quarry had eluded him, fought his way
twice round the hall in an endeavor to
come up with the Orange leader, but failed to
do so until the last lamp had been shattered.
Then O’Gorman out-generalled Mcßride.
He put, his back against the wall and kept
quiet, his ears pricked to catch any sound
that might issue from the enemy. At last
he detected above the din and strife the
high-pitched voice of his enemy, coming
towards him. O’Gorman crouched and
waited, peering through the darkness to
which his eyes were adjusting themselves.
Now Billy was right on the spot where
O’Gorman wanted him, and to make matters
worse he was still singing “The Boyne
Water.”
When the shouts of “Fire!” were raised
and the flames bursting from the ante-room
began to lick up the west wall, the Orange
leader did not take part in the mad rush
for the exits, so deep was he sunk in slumber.
O’Gorman got out with the tail end of
the crowd to find the town lighted up by
the leaping flames. First he watched the
doorway till the last man had scrambled
out; then he looked anxiously round the
half-circle of faces that stood out sharp and
pale in the fierce light; and then he walked
back into the hall.
“Look! O’Gorman’s gone back! God
ha’mercy! The man must be mad!” There
was a cry.
“'I am very sorry indeed,’ he
said, ‘but I am Sergeant
Clavers, from Moana, and I
have a warrant for your
arrest.’”
A rush was made to the entrance, where
smoke was drifting out; and presently
O’Gorman came stumbling forth with great
grunts, the senseless form of Billy Mcßride
in his arms. He carried him across the
road, and laid him gently enough on the
grass; -then he turned on his heel, and
without a word walked in the direction of
his home.
Chapter XIX.
When Allan Macalister got clear from
the Town Hall he did not know whether
to laugh or curse. His months of prepara-
t,ion for this night of nights had gone for
naught. Men had gathered from far and
near to hear his message; such numbers had
never before been collected at a political
meeting in the town. By dint of painful
study and incessant practice, he had pre-
pared himself to deliver a lucid and perhaps
compelling speech to the electors, and the
w h Q le thing had been butchered to make
a Twelfth of July holiday,
Having decided not to curse, Allan threw
his head back and laughed to the stars,
The stars winked shrewdly back; and a
colleague slapped his back and said, “Mac-
alister, that was a mighty bitter laugh.”
There was nothing that could be done,
hanging about outside the tempestuous hall,
while the lugubrious schoolmaster repeated
over and over again, “Lord, Lord! did you
ever see the likes? What a mess, what a
mess!” So it was decided that the best
thing to do was to go down to O’Gorman’s
hotel and drown the memory of the bad
business. But Allan, feeling that he would
not be good company, walked with his
friends to the hotel door, and there left
them to recover his hack from the livery
stable. The horse, his head turned for home,
lost no time in putting the town behind
him. .
As he rode through the stinging air Allan
was conscious of a sinking at the heart,
He felt that the fates were against him
and his cause. A true Celt,
he was capable of harboring
superstitions. He would have
liked to be able to connect
Lady Richmond in some way
with the night’s debacle; but
of course that was ridiculous.
He told himself not to waver —
that the disaster meant only a
temporary setback. Good Lord,
what madmen those Irishmen
were —good friends of his, all of
them; and O’Gorman, staunchest friend of
them all, as mad as the maddest of them!
But what was it at all that had kept Lady
Richmond away?
■ The homing horse had settled down to a
steady clop-clop, clop-clop. The muddy
road was frozen hard as chilled steel. The
stars twinkled and snapped in a clear black
sky, through which the Milky Way trailed
a misty path. Nothing stirred in the valley;
(Continued on next page.)


HAIR
NEED
G
N°
HERES
iimjj -
jkj
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy, A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen's Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.’
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
&CllUris CMtXICAN)
OkUtud S&Urt
♦-REMOVES THE GREY
Sole Australian Agents:
DUEBDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct Q/6 ), 6d. being postage.
fP
)V^-
T>
7p>
&
How Bright and Full of Energy
This Boy Looks!
He Keeps His Face and Hands
Clean and Healthy with
Cuticura Soap
Teach children early in life to
use Cuticura Soap every day
and Cuticura Ointment for
any rashes or irritations. Sham-
poos with Cuticura Soap keep
the hair healthy and thick.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2b. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R.Towns&Co.,Sydney,N.S.W.
P lease
them all
THIS
CHRISTMAS ,
W*
US
VIA
Jade
30/
m
\\M
r
§»
m
Send your
Greetings with a
‘Swan Pen’ and a
‘Fyne-Poynt’ Pencil
How adequately and completely
a “ Swan ” solves the problem
of Christmas-gift choosing. It is
welcomed by everybody, not only
for its everyday usefulness but
also because it is a “ Swan.”
The “Fyne-Poynt” Pencil, too,
commends itself as an accept-
able and appropriate present for
either a lady or gentleman.
COLOURED “SWANS” from 22/6
(OTHER SELF-FILLING “SWANS”
from 17/6 Black or Mottled)
“Fyne-Poynt” Pencils from 7/6
Self-Fill.ng “Blackbird” Pens from 9/-
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
swan'
pens
“ Fyne-Poynt
Pencil
310/1
16/-.
5.1?.2300
Bla,ck or
Mottled
(with clip)
27/6.
Illustrated Catalogue post free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
Swan House, London, W.I.
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service DepSt:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, Ltd.,
181, Clarence Street, Sydney.
FOR 'SWAN*
PENS AND
ALL PENS
jk
j
ĵkjkj
“The Hardship. It’s all right, Mr. Nelson,
I’ve heard of you as a joker before this.”
Nelson laughed. “We’d have told the
officer while we were in the grill-room, but
this tremendous patriot here wouldn’t let
us.”
The large loyalist and importer didn’t like
being called a tremendous patriot in that
tone, and he showed it.
“I was right in demanding his arrest,” he
said, self-defensively. “That accent used at
such a time is disloyal—most disloyal.”
“That accent was assumed in retaliation
for your darned bad singing, which was
destroying our digestion.”
“We were singing only loyal songs.”
“They were very disloyal to any appetite,”
retorted Nelson. “And we weren’t against
the loyalty, only the voices.”
“All right,” said the colonel. “No harm
is done beyond losing your meal. But don’t
do it again, Mr. Nelson —it takes time and
gives trouble.”
“I will not do it again if the patriots have
their voices trained before they make public
appearances.”
“Well, that’s all —good-bye, Mr.”
“Just a minute, Colonel. There’s an old
lady there suffering much the same foolishness.
She’s German, but as harmless as a sparrow.
She’s failed through illness to report.
Vigilance there has got to be, but it’s hard
on the innocent individual. If I know any-
thing, she’s living on the smell of an oil-
rag. And if she’s harassed as a plotter,
she’ll lose the little work she has now, and
then there’ll only be starvation for her. Make
it light—l’ll be her bondsman if it’s any
good.”
“It’s good enough for me to make a fuller
inquiry.”
“All Germans should be interned,” said
the large importer. “Men and women, old
and young.”
“But,” said Nelson, measuring his words
and the opponent at the same time, “she’s
a poor frail old body who teaches languages.
Plots and old lace! Why, she’s never shipped ’
Queensland meat to Java for transhipment
to Holland to feed the enemy! She hasn’t
shipped metals to the same place to shoot
our own men with! Has shq?”
After that the tremendous patriot held his
peace, following Nelson and his friends to the
door, and leaving the business of the decayed
gentlewoman to the colonel, whose altered
look said he had suddenly learned something-
new. The large patriot and the officer entered
their taxi and drove citywards. Nelson
delayed Porter and Whaley.
“We’ll wait for Old Lace,” he said.
“But how do you know they’ll let her
out?”
“I saw the colonel’s face. Wait a bit.
And here she is.”
The faded old woman saw him and came to
the taxi to thank him; but Nelson alighted
and helped her into the ear.
“Get in, Mother,” he said, “we’ll drive you
home.”
“The colonel was very kind,” said the
old woman. “He tells me to report once a
month only. I know you did it. If I had
not seen you I would have been troubled
until I lost the few pupils I have left. You
are very good to the friendless.”
“Just as well I bluffed that big fellow,”
said Nelson. “The meat and the metals I
only suspected before —now I know. Any-
how, we’ll hunt up a few kids for her to
teach Venetian-Austrian and Cologne-French.
‘Gaptain Hansen of der number von at
Lloyt’s barque Hardship,’ will find some
pupils for Plots and Old Lace.”
But the grill-room no more knew the
great loyalist who dealt in metals and meats.
Or, if it did, he was not vocal any more.
there was not a breath of wind. The cold
was intense, but was broken here and there
by a belt of warm air. The only sounds
were the creakings of contracting wires along
the fences, the distant barking of a house-
dog, and always the clop-clop of the canter-
ing hack.
For a moment he experienced the intrigu-
ing sensation of having passed through the
events of the evening in some former exist-
ence, and that there were more to come. His
mind tried to capture the details, but the
phantasm was gone. He straightened him-
self in the saddle, and spoke to the horse.
Then he spoke to himself, telling himself
to cheer up. Times were not good with
him, it was true; but they would struggle
through—himself, Jessie and Malcolm
Caesar. They were having a fight to make
ends meet. In fact, ends were not meeting
He had a debit with the stock company,
which he had been repeatedly requested to
reduce. The rent was paid. To attempt to
exercise the option to purchase was out of
the question. Not that that mattered. He
had no intention of settling permanently
on Raeburn, the poorest and roughest
country in three counties. But they would
pull through, and, if given the ghost of a
chance, he would rouse the country from its
torpor. He would smash the big holdings,
that there might be a slice of land for all
who had the mind and the brawn to culti-
vate it. Along that road lay prosperity.
The only
The clop-clop had ended. The horse, with
his head over the sliprails, was whinnying
to his mates. It was barely midnight.
• From the stable Allan walked towards
the kitchen door, stamping his feet and
swinging his arms to induce circulation. He
was thinking of the disappointment that
would be Jessie’s when he told her of the
events of the evening; he was tired and
glad to be home again, and there was a
light burning in the kitchen for him.
The door opened. Jessie stepped out to
meet him.
“Is that you, Allan man?”
“Oh, ay, lassie! For why are you not in
bed?”
“Oh, Allan, there’s two men in the house
anxious to see you.”
“Ay,” said Allan. “I saw their horses in
the stable. Dealers, no doubt. Don’t you
know them?”
“I doubt they’re no dealers, Allan. They
came at eight o’clock and said they must
stay till you returned.”
“Let’s away in then, Jessie. I’m aching
wi’ the cold.”
“You had a good meeting, Allan?”
Oh, fine, fine!” said Allan, laughing in
his, beard, as they walked into the warm
kitchen together.
The two men seated by the log-fire rose
to face the opened door. The elder one
spoke.
“Mr. Allan Macalister?”
“Ay, ay,” replied Allan, “that’s me.” He
shook hands with his guests, and bade them
be seated; but they remained standing, and
the elder man spoke again.
“I am very sorry indeed,” he said, “but I
am Sergeant Clavers, from Moana, and I
have a warrant for your arrest.”
Jessie laid her hand on Allan’s arm. Allan
peered at the speaker, as if through a mist.
The man’s words were meaningless, and
yet the earth rocked.
He was speaking again. “Sit down, Mrs.
Macalister; permit me.”
Jessie found herself in the chair beside
the fire.
Allan sat on the end of the form, behind
the table. He drew his hands across his
eyes and said vaguely, “I’m at a loss”
“Sheep-stealing,” said Sergeant Clavers.
There were beads of sweat cn his brow. He
continued, “I am downright sorry, but I
must do my duty. The Hermitage station
folk laid an information against you for
sheep-stealing. Here’s the warrant.”
“Allan, Allan, man!” Jessie had risen
from her chair. “What’s it the man’s
saying? 0 God ha’ mercy! What is it
at all?”
Allan rose from the form and went
towards the sergeant, who stood on the
hearth, his back to the fire. “Mister,” he
said, “I don’t understand at all.” He
drew himself up, tense, as a man does
when an earthquake rattles his system.
Apologetically the sergeant repeated the
charge, and added: “The manager of the
Hermitage, Angus Ross, laid the charge.
He swore the information against you.”
(To he continued next week.)
In Capeweed Time.
If streets'of gold be fairer
Than paddocks capeweed-set;
If streets of gold be fairer,
Here, love, with you as sharer,
Far heavens I’d quite forget,
Nor once my spirit fret
If streets of gold be fairer!
VICTORIA.
EMEL.
Menace.
An eagle’s wing, that swept the sky at will,
Lies on the ground widespread, a lifeless
thing,
Reft of its glory, crushed and torn, but still
An eagle’s wing!
Sleep then in peace, nor fear lest waking
bring
Menace 6f rushing Death, when high and
shrill.
Fierce, like an eagle’s scream, the trumpets
sing.
Only in dreams I see again the kill,
Red on the rocks, where the grey lichens
cling,
And high above me, shadowing the hill,
An eagle’s wing.
N.S.W.
ERIC LOWE.
Fine Fellows.
Yesterweek some townsfolk camped
In this forest aisle,
Wine-like air and space uncramped
Knowing for a while.
By so rare a scene bewitched,
Charmed by grove and glade,
Underneath these trees they pitched
Tents, and campfires made.
Oh, a splendid time was theirs
For a week or two,
Free of tasks and free of cares,
Finding life anew!
Ever restless, never still.
From the world’s eyes hid,
Freedom theirs to work their will—
Fine the deeds they did!
Blithely keeping holiday,
Through the sunny hours,
Axe and fire they brought to play
On the trees and flowers.
Eyes aglow and spirits high,
In this quiet place,
How they made the red chips fly,
Made the red flame race!
Making all a wreck around,
Spoiling Beauty’s shrine,
Limb and leaf they brought to ground,
Frond and veiling vine.
And, true sportsmen, one and all,
Brave and keen and grim,
When they heard a lyre-bird call
Death rewarded him.
Blood enriched and bodies brown,
Fit and fine and well,
Back at last they trooped to town,
Having much to tell.
Much to tell how greenwood life
Ranks all life above,
Being free of death and strife,
Breathing peace and love!
N.S.VV.
RODERIC QUINN.


kjkjkjk
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.,
CONCOID WEST, N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents—EVANS, JUJSA'KIN & CO., 3LTD., Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
“THE AGE’’
Established 185//.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you neglect to use “The Age” for adver-
tising, you miss one of the most vital features
in your Victorian campaign, and no advertiser
who is spending large sums to produce,
advertise and sell an article can afford to
take that risk.
“THE AGE”
has over 122,000 daily subscribers who have
confidence in their chosen publication, and
because it is a newspaper that not only goes
into the home but reaches the very heart of
the household, the advertiser who places his
products or service on record in its columns
is assured of dependable reader value.
“The Age” publishes over 1,000,000
advertisements annually.
Audited Daily net circulation
122,501.
Rates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
47 Fleet Street, London.
j
\
G
The only Pictorial
Newspaper in South
Australia offers ex-
ceptional value to
advertisers who wish
to reach the women
buyers in South Aus-
tralia. In one week
recently more than
12,000 letters were
received from
women readers.
First with the news
—first with the pic-
tures—is the slogan
of The Register the
paper South Austra-
lian women buy to
read.
REGISTER
NEWS-PICTORIAL
REPRESENTATIVES
SYDNEY. S. MELBOURNE.—
Thompson, “Lit- J. N. Bednall,
gar House,” 30 The Herald Office,
Carrington street. Flinders street.
Che mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
(Established 1854)
The “Mercury" is the only Metro-
politan Newspaper in the State.
Its news services, articles, typo-
graphy are unexcelled in Australia.
THE “MERCURY” COVERS
TASMANIA
And its circulation exceeds the
combined figures of the dailies in
Tasmania. Delivered by fast motor-
cars, it reaches Launceston (121
miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before break-
fast.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
80 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
Che Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all interstate agencies of
, Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price lid.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7068.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, /‘The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Do You Know?
“The Week”
has special columns on the following
matters of interest to the man on the
land.
Agriculture
The Orchard
The Piggery
Poultry
Dairying
In the Garden
The Grazier
Sugar Industry
Nature Notes
And many more items that will
interest and benefit him by reading.
Price 3d. per copy
From All Newsagents, or
14/6 Per Annum, Post Paid, from
THE TELEGRAPH
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane, Queensland,
who also issue “The Telegraph”
daily—l 2 noon, 3 p.m. and 5 p.m.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
ENERGETIC, ALERT,
FITI
THE RESULT
OF tiOOD HEALTH
k
!
TO be alert, bright eyed
and vigorous, you need
real health.
Constipation is the common foe
of health. Dull eyes, tiredness,
depression, indicate constipation
often unsuspected. (Millions suffer
this way).
It ruins your health, and is the cause
of biliousness, indigestion, headache, and
other troubles of stomach and liver.
Beecham’s Pills are nature’s own correc-
tive for constipation. Purely vegetable—
safe—effective-'Mhey quickly put things
right.
BEECHAMS
PILLS
6IVE you HEALTH
“The Examiner”
Tasmania’s Oldest Daily Newspaper. Established 1842.
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
jk
“Weekly Courier”
j
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
• to its subscribers
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please jor ward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 3 months jrom
for which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7
Overseas —12 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, £
*
W&SiM
<K
ft
v»
o
o
e
yio
6>
5 e
<t9
f
<S 6
v # s -
M" ..
<4
»y)
s «*Vf
S-AC 6 ’-
' .«, e 1
fl*' <^}s


the fcmcij strikes uou
fl
a
\r
M
S 3
\S
/
v<r
i
*
4
Wi
zz.
u
m.
'V
w.
n
sg
JBl
n
w
A thirst’s a thirst wherever you be,
and there’s only one certain treat-
ment for it . . ,fa glass of cool,
consoling K.B. Lager.
At home in the shade—by the
roadside in the sun —in the
:
city or by the sea
mm
wise man has a bottle or
two of Tooth’s K.B. Lager
nd it’s sure to satisfy
nd certain to refresh,
enevei tf e fancy
strikes you. It’s a
m
I W I mm 9
irii
Jin
■ 4^ri»
BREWED AND
BOTTLED BY
TOOTH fir CO.
LIMITED
KENT BREWERY
SYDNEY
