

HOW PROFOUNDLY TRUE IT IS
Of Walter Scott there
has come down the
memory of a wise and
witty country gentleman,
a lawyer by training, a
scholar by choice, with
a genius for hospitality
and a passionate affec-
tion for men and the
ways of his own land
of mountain and flood.
His great series of
Novels, and
his heroic poems—
Marmion, The Lady of
the Lake and the Lay
of the Last Minstrel
are among the most
splendid of those im-
perishable gifts which
Scotland has given to
the World at large !
1
m
mm
mm;
w:
m
m
YYA
M
%A
)
D
ASK ALWAYS FOR DEWAR’S—THE SCOTCH WHISKY
The Bulletin
OXj tCZ ih&Wci QaAVUIA fioiQC 11 .
Vol. 51.—N0. 2623.
Wednesday, May 21, 1930.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney. N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


WRITE for the Library Catalogue and
terms, and lists on all subjects, which
will be forwarded post free on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Mere beauty does not always reign supreme,
Altho’ in abstract still the poet’s theme.
A Homely Syren oft secures “the palm’’
Where languid beauty lacks a winning charm.
Mere dosing for a cold may not suffice
For they who flout plain commonsense advice
Beware relapses 1 And be always sure
Each dose if Woods’ Oreat Peppermint Cure
Learn
Story Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
send this coupon
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
l()n Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booldet. explaining how■ to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin - .
My Name
My Address
S.B. 31'»
fl-YSAGHT’
O
3
R
AUSTRAL!^
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized iron should specify
Lysaght's Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAW
« A
p
m
THE DINNER
Host Holbrook Says:
“My Worcester-
shire Sauce is mat-
ured like an old
wine. It has a
piquancy that age
alone can impart.
Just a few drops
with the Soup, Fish,
or Meat. Ah ! the
finishing touch to a
good dinner.”
H 4
rf J/yj UV
mi
y
7 r '
p
'//////////A
c
B
at
■7
Safety
Weed Tyre Chains pre-
vent dangerous skidding
accidents.
Protect your passen-
gers, yourself and your
car by carrying always
Weed Tyre Chains,
ready to be put on when
needed.
Look for the name
“Weed” on every hook.
Order from your dealer.
AMERICAN CHAIN CO.
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
WEED
TYRE CHAINS
3-6
SWAN
INK
On your
AMERICAN
ITINERARY...
"THE CLIFT HOTEL
SAN FRANCISCO"
The Clift is one of the finer
hotels, close to the center of
things in beautiful, historic San
Francisco. There are 540 rooms,
each with its own bath and its
individual radio reception equip-
ment; every comfort, but with-
out extravagance.
Rates: for single room, from $3
(about 125.) upward; two per-
sons in a room, from $5 (about
one guinea) upward.
Full refund on
wireless request
for accommo-
dations from
your steamer
THE
CLIFT
HOTEL
.0*
m
iX)
Rift.
• v,i
ft.
12iii
r fr I'til:
»«! IHII
iij
Jiii
m iii
:ls]S
f r
!; %:
San Francisco, California, U. S. A.
pTTTEjnrrrr^
DIRECT MEDiUMTQ WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCMCUFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
THE MOUTH THE GATEWAY for DISEASE.
Scientists have proved conclusively that no fewer
than 38 different infections may be traced to the
human mouth as a starting point. The mouth thus
being the gateway for the entrance of disease, it
is here that precautions are most necessary.
Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes
Are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germi-
cide and Antiseptic known. Beiny destructive to
all organisms which give rise to infectious diseases,
they keep the mouth in a sweet, healthy condition.
The Lancet (London) states: —“Their purpose is to
act as a bactericide in the mouth. This result _i#
t’k'ely to be gained, for in the experiments tried
Eumenthol Jujubes proved to be as effective bao*
reticidally as is creosote.”
16 a Tin.
m
m
i mm
c*
A. The Larynx ot
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea oi
Windpipe.
C. The Bronchial
Tubes of Dissected
Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis and Influenza.
The Red Page
A Human Professor
Knocking Round (Angus and Robertson)
is a most engaging book of prose by J. Le
Gay Brereton, the potential swagman who
became Professor of English Literature
at Sydney University, and the friend
of Henry Lawson, Dowell O’Reilly, Mary
Gilmore and anyone else who ever met him.
In person he happily illustrates that reading
maketh, not only the full man, but the
human one. He is a most unpedantic peda-
gogue; not the most, because, though the
half-fed pedagogue is the world’s most
arrant pedant, professors of literature belong
as a whole to the salt of the earth.
J. LE GAY BRERETON, with swag in
the background.
Reference to Professor Brcreton’s human
side is pardonable here, because his latest
book is. essentially human. Its contents are
probably the most mixed assortment
gathered into any Australian book to date.
A Lord Birkenhead would doubtless call them
all essays; a less concrete-mixer taste might,
make this of them. Essays: '‘Kicking.”
"Louisa/' “Trees.” Reminiscence: “Recol-
lections of Australian Poets,” “Henry Law-
son.” Short stories: “Unconscious Cerebra-
tions,” “Robson.” Narrative sketches: “Off
the Beat,”' “Snapshot,” “Henry Lawson’s
Ghost,” “King of Cats,” “The Possum.”
Lecture in encouragement: “Literary
Groups.” Informative article: “Our Coun-
try.” Informative article and narrative
sketch: “Trav'lin’.” Personal, descriptive
and narrative sketch: “Dowell O’Reilly.”
Satire: “Fluellen.” Epigrammatic verses on
the topics of the titles in the table of con-
tents complete the variety. This one,
accompanying “Trees,” is fairly typical:-
When 1 observe how rein* neat
The trees are, ranked aiong the street,
T turn with pleasure, 1 confess,
To God’s supreme untidiness.
Mr. Mackaness included “Robson” in his
anthology of Australian short stories. It
is considerably better than “Unconscious
Cerebrations,” but Professor Brere ton’s
strength is not in narrative; he has no dra-
matic faculty. The narrative sketches also
take a secondary place in the book, though
every one of them has merit, and in one the
first-person narrator, awakened by his wife
at night, “slipped into a suit of pyjamas and
went to the back door.” The essays-—one
broadly funny, the other secretively human
—are better. The best things, however, are
the reminiscences. “Henry Lawson” and
“Recollections of a Few Australian Poets”
are infinitely more valuable and incompar-
ably more readable than all the biographical
facts about these people lumped together.
As he was approached in the Domain
by Kendall. “I suppose you’d like a penny,”
Kendall said, lire small Brereton supposed
so, too. Kendall regarded him in deep
melancholy, shook his head and exclaimed.
“I wish I had one to give you,” and
walked away. Later, he and Lawson con-
templated sleeping at that same verdant
address, but there were objections, among
them, “Besides, in the Domain one was
liable to lose one’s boots.” For such things
as these the book must rank high in this
year’s Australian publishing.
A Last Testament
The idea that poetry can be written only
by the young in their first fine careless
rapture needs reconsidering in the light of
recent work. The most serious, abundant
and inspiring poetry in recent years has been
the work of men in their maturity and even
in their old age. Consider Yeats, with his
marvellous style changed to express his own
growth; consider Hardy; and then Bridges,
whose early lyrics, for all their rare sweet-
ness, seem the merest twitters in the orches-
tra of The Testament of Beauty (Claren-
don Press; Dymocks), the strangely timed
book that came only a few months before
the Laureate’s death.
This Testament has something that old
age alone could give us: Pisgah-sights
for its theme, ripeness of technique, an easy
awareness of all other peaks of song. “If
youth but knew: if age but could!” runs
the saying. Here is an old age that “c'ould.”
V\ ith all the serenity of age, there is a
power and freshness in this poem whose
writer “burned brightlier toward the setting
day. Tranquil yet vibrant, the lines and
passages carry us to a world where poetry
zs the natural form of expression : no stilted
phrases, lio over-solemnity, but laughter
and devotion and pervading beauty.
the Testament has for theme nothing less
than that of Milton; but in justifying
the ways of God to man, Bridges is content
to find food for wonder on this earthly and
visible plane, knowing as an explorer in
science as well as in the arts how full of
invisible mysteries our ordinary life is.
“belfhood’ and “Breed” he beholds as the
two steeds yoked to man’s chariot, work-
ing together in spite of their difference:
both of these draw mankind towards beauty,
beauty traditional, beauty vet unknown:
yet towards how much else! The poet cries
for Reason, and in a tremendous passage
at the end of Book 11. which is on Seif-
hood, shows how he trembles for ljis country
in its recovery from selfhood’s tyranny in
war:—
alas then in what plight are we,
Knowing ’twas mankind's crowded umdeanness of soul
that brought our plague! which .yet we could not
cure nor stay ;
for Reason had lost control of his hot-tempered steed
and taken himself infection of 'th# wild brute’s
madness ;
so wliell its fire slackened and the fierce fight won-
out
our fevered pulse show’d no sober return of health.
Amid the flimsy joy of the uproarious city
mi spirit on those first jubilant days of armistice
was heavier within me, and felt a profounder fear
than ever it knew in all the war’s darkest dismay,
Ihe poem cannot be spoken of without
quoting long stretches of its “loose alex-
andrines.” No single passage will do it
justice, for its nature is that of something
composed and balanced. Reaching out a
hand for the- aid of some ancient dreamer
who has been Ms intimate, staying his foot
on a rocky ledge found by another, Bridges
rises with Lucretius, with Dante, with St.
Francis, devoting pages of musing to each
of these. Watching Lucretius set out as a
matei-ialist:—
So to Lucretius also seeking Order in Chance
some frenzy of Beauty came, ’neath which constraint
he left
his atoms in the lurch and fell to. worshipping
Aphrodite, the naked Goddess of man’s breed;
and waving the oriflamme of her divinity
above the march of his slow-trooping argument.
In those few lines Bridges has given the
very core of Lucretius’s vast poem “Dp
Rerum Natiira.”
But it is not alone among the visions of
poets nor even among the arts in general
that this poet’s thought moves. His own
poetic sureness enables him to gather count-
less aspects of life into his Contemplative
song. Like Lucretius, he will sing of atoms;
lie will face philosophers like Leibnitz, and
guess the undiscoverable limits of mind and
matter. Again, being a most “modern”
poet, he will not put any human -activity or
interest beyond the range of his pen. Aware
ol the mellow beauty in traditional ways of
labor, he bravely opens his mind to what
new beauty may be born. When human
reapers are replaced by machines
shark-tooth’d chariot rumpeth biting a broad wav.
and jerking its high swindging arms around in the
air,
swoopeth the swath. Vet this queer Pterodactyl i-;
well,
that »« the sinister torpor of the blazing day
elicketeth in heartless mockery of swoon and sweat,
as 'twere the salamandrine voice of all parch'd
things ;
and the dry grasshopper wondering knoweth his God.
Bridges, in this poem, has never taken the
easiest way. Every line is an experiment,
being in that rarest metre, for English,
though varied infinitely, the alexandrine
This metre seeming to Bridges Appropriate
to his meditation, he has developed it and
loosened it in a thousand ways. It is cus-
tomary, I have noticed, to say that Bridges
is not possible to quote, and to leave it at
that; but this is hardly true. In spite of the
strong continuity in this poem of four
books, the poet’s intensity leads him to
write, by the way, many a line or small
group ol lines that can be gazed on for its
own beauty. As this: —
Loy'sfc thou in the blithe hour
of April dawns —inarvelest thou not—-to hear
tlw ravishing music that the small birdtis make
in garden or woodland, rapturously heralding
the break of day; when the first lark on hiah hath
warned
the vigilant robin of the sun’s approach
and he on slender pipe calletli the nesting tribes.
It is impossible to stop the pen from
writing it down! Nearly every line Bridges
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”: —An Assurance of Accuracy.
Anthony Horderns
d
a
m
t HR
9
ẁ
A £5/12/6 Made-to-Measure Suit for 84/-
You would never credit that you could get a high-grade tailored-to-measure suit for 84/-. . Yet Anthony
Horderns’ are actually making this offer. The materials from which you may choose consist of All-Wool
Worsteds, Serges and Tweeds. The designs and the shades are 1930’s newest and the cut well! Anthony
Horderns’ guarantee you perfect satisfaction in fit, finish and fabric. The workmanship, of course, is exactly
the same standard as with all our tailored-to-measure suits at
Sale Price *•; •* • *
In suitings of super-quality.. Prices £5/19/6 and *6/15/-
Sale Price ' £5/5/-
Ij unable to call, send jor our Self-measurement Forms , which bring' our Tailoring Service within reach of our most distant customers.
Men’s Wear, Ground Floor, George Street. Carnage Paid on Mens Wear.
Telephone M2JfOl
Day and Night
(The Senior Store)
Postal Address
Box 2712 C, 0.P.0.


n
m
%
o
Bank and
m
ammm
ŵ
6% monthly interest
on current accounts
£5 only required to open this account.
Practically all investment plans which credit or pay interest
monthly require much larger initial payments than £5.
Add any amount at any time.
This is advisable for those who do not wish to contract
to invest a definite amount at stated intervals, and especially
attractive for the business or professional man whose income
is received in odd amounts at irregular intervals.
No discounts, no charges.
No charge is made to open this account, and no part of
the principal or interest is discounted when withdrawn.
A Form of Investment for Large
or Small Investors that holds firm
against Financial Tides
To-day’s need is for a safe investment that will return a substantial income.
Bank interest is sure enough but not sufficient. Among the dangerous tides
of finance to-day the Merron Estate, Ltd., stands out like a solid rock of
security. Its business is built on the soundest form of finance in existence—
the advancing of money against approved securities.
Your money, no matter how much or how little, is secured by loans on
solid securities made on conservative valuations by men of expert capacity
and judgment.
COMPLETE PROTECTION AGAINST LOSS.
No money is advanced without ample security. Moreover, the securities
themselves are insured against loss, destruction or default. Also, the Share
Capital of the Company is a substantial guarantee to investors.
You can place your money in our hands for safe and wise invest-
ment and be assured of a guaranteed return of 10 per cent. This
is a higher rate of interest than any bank has yet offered.
Call in and talk it over or write for details. This is the
SAFE way to make your money earn profit for you.
THE MERRON ESTATE, LIMITED
Deposit and Investment Company
11 Martin Place
(next door to Com
monwealth Bank)
Sydney.


.JfßFc
gg jy m J®' JP rfwiMßP
p/«
ii&i&Sii
; ; : ; : §S SI
llilflliilll
HOSPITALITY - COMFORT - ENTERTAINMENT
Excellent! That’s the universal opinion of those who make a point of
travelling by the Matson-Oceanic Line.
Such a holiday such a trip such a business jaunt. Taken under ideal
conditions, and so unusual.
If on business, speed is the big advantage—l 9 days only from Sydney to
San Francisco.
If on holiday, it is the most varied, unique and happiest route.
Pleasant breaks at interesting ports of call, where happy island people,
beautiful tropical scenery, flowers and shrubs obviate the slightest possi-
bility of monotony en route.
Here’s the trip you dream about, with hospitality, comfort and enter-
tainment surrounding you on every hand.
FARES: Sydney to London, Single, First Class throughout £129; First Class to
New York and Second Class on Atlantic Steamer £ll7/10/-; Second Class
Steamer and First Class Rail £97. Round the World, First Class £245; Second
Class £lBO/10/-.
S.S. SIERRA S.S. SONOMA S.S. VENTURA
Sailing every Third 1 Saturday for Suva, Pago Pago, Honolulu and San Francisco.
Special Cheap Excursion Tickets issued to Honolulu all the year round.
'SOcianicSteamshipCo.
PIATSON LINE
12 Bridge Street, Sydney
Local Mcllwraith, McEacharn Ltd.
Agents: Dalgety 8C Company Ltd.
Dalgety 8C Company Ltd.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Fremantle,
Albany.
Brisbane, and all Queensland Ports.
Write for descriptive
pamphlets, fare lists,
sailing dates, etc.
Name
Address
E-30
writes is gratefully aware of what someone
has done long before him: that “slender
pipe” is Virgil’s “tenuis avena”; yet every
line is his own, every scene is recorded with
freshness and wonder, without which poetry
is void:—
the honeysuckle escapeth in serpentine ways
spreading its joybunches to finger at the sky.
Great is Bridges’s affinity with Blake:
yet greater the contrast of his continuity.
This Testament in its landscapes and de-
votions is surely tl\e most English of all
long poems; yet for its enrichment it has
taken toll of the earth. Its vastness makes
it seem almost a natural growth, but we
know it for the result of one man’s devout
endeavor. As he himself has said:—
the secret of a poem
Lieth in this intimate echo of a poet’s life.
NETTIE PALMER.
Another Book Raid
Yet another Sydney bookshop, this one
in a suburb, has been raided. The books
taken included “All Quiet on the Western
Front..” But no adept of that new religion,
Pacifism, lias voiced a protest. In fact,
there has been no protest at all from any-
one outside the pages of The Bulletin.
The Fellowship of Australian Writers
meets and pats itself on the back with
commendable industry. The Authors’
Section of the Australian Journalists’ Asso-
ciation continues its negative existence. The
whole Sydney press acquiesces. No Univer-
sity voice breathes an interest in the future
of Australian literature, damned if this
cramping of freedom of thought goes on.
The Women Writers, for once, decline to
talk.
I have been asked to found a branch of
the P.E.N. Club in Australia. I have de-
clined. We have enough of that sort of
thing—poor, helpless, dull, ambitionless
mutual admiration societies; all insincere;
all breathing prettily of an interest in Aus-
tralian literature and passively permitting
it to be made more and more impossible;
all too smugly content with the little social
light they enjoy from their rathole candles
to crawl out and do anything for the cause
upon which they have ratted. Charming
people, the lot of them.
CECIL MANN.
Brent of Bin Bin Again
It is a relief to turn from the picture of
back-country life presented by Nomian Lind-
say in “Redheap” to that provided by the
mysterious Brent of Bin Bin in Ten Creeks
Run (Blackwood). An interesting fact,
which might be pondered by the censors,
immediately presents itself. Both writers
manipulate the same material. Brent’s
women are as frail as Lindsay’s, his men
can be as brutal and lustful. Yet the
adjective which instantly crops up in the
mind with regard to Lindsay’s book is
“squalid,” while it does not even occcur in
the case of Brent of Bin Bin’s. And the
explanation does not lie in the degrees of
frankness employed by each writer. Brent
is as uncompromising as Lindsay.' The
difference seems to lie in their respective
grasp of reality.
In “Redheap” Lindsay is first and fore-
most a preacher. The fact that he preaches
an unconventional morality does not make
him any the less a pulpit-thumper. He gives
the impression of having gained his know-
ledge of the human heart through the pages
of a psychologist’s handbook. His Aus-
tralian village suggests a mid-Victorian
community incongruously smitten with
Marie Stopesism plus Bertrand Russellism.
His characters are not human beings but
symbols. His drunkards are self-conscious
protests against Prohibition; his women are
sometimes alive but more often merely
the author’s revolt against Comstockery;
his men struggle to become real but they
are constantly frustrated by their creator’s
desire to make a text of them. Lindsay
stands too close to his characters to be able
to see all round them.
Brent, on the other hand, maintains the
attitude of an aloof observer. He neither
laughs with nor jeers at his puppets; he
simply records their joys and sorrows. He
manages an enormous cast of actors. Some-
times his stage seems to be in danger of
serious overcrowding, but the patient reader
who plods through his apparently rambling
discourse spread over 365 closely-printed
pages will discover that they all fall into
a just relationship. He has no heroes, hero-
ines or villains. His easy narrative rises
and falls through one crisis after another.
The history of one Murrumbidgee family
merges into another with no break in
continuity or loss of interest in the reader.
Girls grow into adolescence, are seduced,
marry and have children and lovers. There
is room for the realities of tenderness and
romance in Brent’s world as well as the ele-
mental passions. Even the innumerable
horses have their individuality. The atmo-
sphere of his chosen terrain of' Goulburn,
Yass, Michelago and the Bogongs is painted
by Brent with unerring fidelity and sense
of natural beauty. The rivers sing down
from the snows of Kosciusko through shrub-
clad gullies as they did in “Up the
Country”; and there are droughts through
which men live undaunted (most droughts
in Australian literature seem to be painted
by men who never lived away from a
suburban watertap for more than a fort-
night) .
There is no single passage in Ten Creeks
Run which equals the description of Emily’s
drowning at the Mungee Fish Pool in “Up
the Country,” but there is better control
of a bigger canvas and the same simplicity
tending to mask the fineness of achieve-
ment. The new book, as did the old one,
ends with the word “Interval,” and the
author’s artistic credo is stated in a preface
not as clearly as his application of it.
F.S.
A Satchel of Books
Guide to the Orchids of New South Wales,
by H. M. R. Rupp (Angus and Robertson).
Careful description, with ample illustration;
expertly done.
The BalConinny , by J- B. Priestley
(Methuen). Essays, mostly light as lemon-
ade-with-a-dash, and a good many scarcely
worth serving up in book form. Still, they
are brightly done, good breezy entertainers.
Stars of the Southern Heavens, by James
Nangle (Angus and Robertson). Anyone,
says the N.S.W. Government astronomer, can
enjoy fresh delights by watching'the heavens
with the aid of a pair of ordinary field-
glasses. His book is a very pleasing guide
to that enjoyment.
Parjett Calling, by Lieut.-Colonel Drury
(Chapman and Hall). This collection of
short stories by the author of “The Flag
Lieutenant” is misnamed, inasmuch as only
three of them deal with the famous ex-private
of marines. All are good in their different
styles. The longest and best —“The Man
in the Strong-room,” which tells of a brainy
murderer who should have got away with
it, but failed —could easily have been
extended into a first-class mystery novel.
The Dragon and the Lotus, by Crosbie
Gamin (Ileincmann). Published a year
or two ago at the Australian selling price
of 135., this splendid travel book is now avail-
able in the Crown Library at 6s. There is
nothing “cheap” about the new library; the
reprint is every bit as good a volume as the
original. Garstin has a rare sense of humor,
a real gift for travelling and a greater one
for making travel live. Quaint illustrations
by the author and a fresh outlook upon the
Orient are further virtues.
Pink Furniture, by A. E. Coppard (Cape;
Roycroft). A surprise for anyone who opens
it expecting the annual Coppard batch of
stories. It is a mild satire on a homely,
common and, in fact, commonplace human
foible —the everlasting hunting abroad for
what was under the hunter’s nose when he
started. Coppard has done better, much
better, than this child story, but his new
oddities and whimsicalities are as deftly
introduced as ever, and the book altogether
is one in which the writer’s barrackers will
have plenty of glimpses of their hero.
Journal of a Slave Dealer (Routledge).
Nics. Owen left his native Ireland about
1746, set himself up as a slavedealer between
West Africa and America, wrote a spas-
modic diary, and died about 1759. The
present book is published from the original
MS., edited by Eveline Martin, and is a*
literary curiosity of the first water. If Owen
had laid himself out to write in earnest, he'
might have achieved wonders. As it is, he
wrote a diary that most readers will wish
was longer. This is the way of it:
Saturday.—The King of Sheffora is now dead, and
they have crown’d a new king, but I can’t tell
wheather he is of any affinity to the disseas’d. king,
who has had a reighn of 8 or 9 years—all the kings
round about is summon’d at the sollomnty and old
ShefFra is forgot for ever.
March 16t.h, 1758.—2 months has run on with-
out any thing pirticular except the circumstances
of the English war and the arival of Capt. Taylor
from London.
He complains, apparently with good reason,
of having to put up with the “noise and bad
language* of the slaves; places wood grubs
on the menu above best English mutton, and
when nothing “pirticular” is happening does
a drawing, such as, for example, tha*t of the
“King of. Sh'erbrow in his full majesty with
liis gilt brass crown, siting in state over his
delight, 2 pots of palm wine.” After
Owen’s death, the chronicle is carried on
for a while by his brother, who, however,
hasn’t the Master’s touch.
Burden's End, by Bridget Lowry
(Methuen), lias a stirring opening. Peter
Merrick is a solicitor’s clerk in London,
though “county” by origin. His landlady
introduces him to her new lodger, who has
also come down in the world. At an early
stage of their friendship the young woman
says: “Mr. Merrick, there is someone that
wants my life—why I cannot tell you, for
I don’t know myself. But this I do know
without a vestige of doubt, that one day I
shall be murdered” —she paused, and her
voice suddenly sank to a whisper—“as my
father was murdered.” The yarn maintains
that form to the end. Rifles, cobras and
other lethal instruments are used against
the young couple for base ends by the last,
man in the book who might be suspected
of such conduct. A well-devised thriller
which ends happily with virtue in the ascen-
dant, and the young people restored to their
rightful place in society.
“Ex-Tas.”: A controversy is proceeding in
the Hobart daily press relative to Aus-
tralia’s first novel. The impression appears
to be that the book was published in 1830
and was written by a convict. This is not
correct. What is believed to be the only
three-volume novel ever produced in Aus-
tralia was published in Hobart Town in
1830, by Henry Melville. It is called “Quin-
tas Servinton, a Tale Founded upon Inci-
dents of Real Occurrence,” and its author,
Henry Savey, was not a convict, but is
believed to have been one of the garrison.
The work is very rare; the only known
copy in Tasmania is in the Tasmanian Pub-
lic Library, Walker Collection. The idea
that “Australia’s first novel” was written by
a convict is probably due to the fact
(mentioned more than once in The Bulle-
tin) that a pirated edition of “Pickwick
Papers” was published in Launceston by
one Henry Dowling about 1839. The
cleverly executed illustrations, modelled
after “Phiz,” were done by a convict who
tagged his work “Tiz.” This pirated edition
is also in the Walker Collection.
Answers to Correspondents.
A’o notice (except of a hostile character) "will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted j
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Feruleaf: The Bulletin left off calling
Maoriland “New Zealand’’ for the same good reason
that other people left off calling Australia “New
Holland”. .. .E.R.R.: Nothing has yet been done in
the matter of a Third Serial Competition, and
nothing is likely to be done this year... .R.H.A.:
Good down to the finale. Strengthen it.... J.J.S.:
A sound idea, but that verse wouldn’t help it
forward... .G.R.H.: True, true; sorry the verse
doesn’t reach publication standard... .M.W.H.: Not
enough novelty about “Autumn” Magog: Can’t
contribute to the christening of the poultry farm....
C. : Not enough to feel pleasure in things large
or small; the reader must do some feeling with you.
. ...S.A.A.: Gastronomic item put the Religious
Editor off his pickled onions... .Playd: The
basket emitted a snarl.... W.A.D.: As verse, well
enough done, but all unconvincing... .N. 8.: Ballad
of the lady of Annentieres not half as fruity as the
original.... C.IT.: “Two-up” went one down....
D. : Both fell at the first hurdle.... M. 8.: A trifle
forced... .J.C.F.S.: Has points, but the jerky, un-
rhymed final lines would beat even better work.
... .IV.M.M.: Fragile. .. .8.K.: We get lots of verses
like yours... .C.R.C.: Splendid:—
Be done with all this crying for the bush, you poets;
Get hold of some idea a little bit newer;
That way only will you ever earn your oats,
Producing the Great Australian Literature.
....Peg: Smart here and there —so many are....
K.K.: No financial response to “The Ca 11”.... 333 :
Went out like a candle, though with a little more
smoke. .. .P.T.S.: Too -slight... .S.E.: Send full
details to Service Department... .W.H.W.: Assayed
at once; a speck to the ton... .0.M.F.: “Lazy,”
unfortunately, appears to apply to the muse, too. ...
F.W.H.: Has a fair lilt, but needs a good deal
more than that.... Pom: First-rate topic, but
handling is weak... .L.R.8.: Might place it else-
where... .0. A.H.: Like most efforts in sonnet form,
they read like exercises rather than expressions of
any feeling. .. X'.D.B.: Escape the “thou arts” and
“thou werts.” They sound artificial. .. .F.E.8.: Not
quite... .R.S.D.: Halting as an amateur first night.
.. . .A.E.A.: Cheer up ; you’ll recover. .. .D.L.: Afraid
it adds nothing... .F.E.C.: Yes, it was too feeble.
. ...P.J.1.: You don’t make out a . strong enough
case....A.C.H.: Merit in both, but not nearly
enough.... O.McN.: Experience teaches :
The snares you set in 1910 with my foolish heart
as bait
Won’t work in 1930, you sinful old reprobate.
. ...L.1.: Answered that weeks ago. It was con-
sidered frail... .J.F.: Nothing worth the saying in
“Rain”. • • • D-J.: Statement that love is more than
gold is the most original bit. .. .Brady’s Lookout:
You could do something worth while if you got
down to it Stu: Those jerky lines read like
cracker-night in Suburbia R.H.: Good color in
them all; pity your verse sense isn’t stronger. Try
your hand at a yarn J.S.: You’ll probably do
better later 0n.., .N.V.D.: All very true, but
scarcely new. .. .R.K.W.: No space for the American
be-biight-though-you’ve-got-the-earache brand of verse.
. ...E.M.L.: Nearly... .S.W.K.: You’ve done better.
. ...J.8.: Exhortation to forget the depression and
work is sound in principle, anyway... .Nero: Can’t
turn it into a discussion. You’re close enough to
the right track already... .A.K.T.: No more space
at the moment for Lawrence... .E.T.: Tribute to
settler’s wife more generous than skilled... .IT.L.:
The reference, of course, was to the London Daily
Mail, but its accuracy has since been questioned.
. ...M.M.: “Whitaker’s Baronetage’’ (1929) spells the
name Fairlie-Cuninghame. It adds a footnote: “The
surname of the tenth baronet was Cuningham-Fairlie ;
his sons, the eleventh and twelfth baronets, altered
it to Fairlie-Cuninghame.’’ The present is the
fourteenth holder of the title. .. .1t.A.11.: Nothing
ingenious about either... .A.H.: Can’t work up any
enthusiasm for breakfast-table group.. , .R.M.: Mere
fact that the incidents are true doesn’t make them
interesting.... C.1.C.: Story oozed out in the telling.
. ...IT.S.M.: You don’t make Cornelius convincing
. ...F.E.F.: Too lean for our taste, but somebody
else might fancy them.. . .E.M.8.: A mere descrip-
tion of a fight is not enough. .. .L.G.: Sandalwood
yarn might be placed overseas; others don’t attract.
. ...N.M.: Gets obscure towards the end....V.W.:
Merit in it, but you let too many cats out-<of the
bag prematurely... .M.J.C.: Too far-fetched....
M.S.: Lost by a neck... .D.H.: They won’t scamper
across these pages... .E.R.S.W.: Climax is artificial.
. ...J.F.K.: As the husband wa,s sure to be captured,
why blame the wife?... .K.A.J.: Can’t see
any logical: connection between beginning and end.
. ...F.T.: A bit weary of coincidences... .L.R.: A
dull dog, that spruiker... .R.K.G.: Clerk’s pursuit
of widow lacks animation. .. .M.H.: An oversupply of
tall, sunburnt, inflammable young squatters... .D.D.:
Too light to sink in.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS,
W.R.8.: Girl’s going back... .N.G.H.: Nine*
tenths explanation and one-tenth drawing...,
E.W.D.: Gag is one of the ole pioneers... .8.H.:
Fair idea badly handled.... L.A.1.: Process-engraver
■won’t get those instructions'... .W.H.D.: No improve-
ment. . ..R.H.: Don’t care ‘for microscopic head
studies. .. .E.W.: Unutterably bad...- . .K.U.F.: As stiff
as ever... .R. 8.: Counted out* but try again....
G.W.L.: Make ’em ffcur times the size,.. . fifty.: One
glance was- enough.... EA1.8.: Not interested in
your' 8i11... .F.K.: An insignificant pair... .H. 8.:
Spoilt by poor composition and overloading... .A.J.:
Crudities... .C.F.: Returning your humble little
offering.... D.W.: Neither sketch nor jest up to the
mark... .B.W;A.: Just thrown together... .R.S.IT.:
Merely a child’s riddle, and old at/that. .. .E.lv.:
Hopeless. ..-0.C.: Still r. long way off N.P.:
Speaking of nightmares, we had one, too—a whole
paper to fill and you the* only artist left in the
world.


9
/
m *
iSP
I
m
s'- t\
:'?7
■
r -
..-VV-
■
#
' . .
im
V
..
Hi
I
; I :
m
U * I
■
HM
. . ■ - :■
■
* W
... H
IWM
I Hi
m m
w
■hi
HHI
■ <
■
. ■
HI
HR
f
m
m
mm
■
&
m
.. ■ .
■
IP
Hi
ps* '€* I";
■
■
FAMOUS
PORT
/j


The Bulletin
Vol. 51.—N0. 2623.
May 21, 1930.
THE CENSORSHIP DESCENDS ON SYDNEY BOTANIC GARDENS.
“For selling Shakspeare’s ‘Venus and Adonis’ and other ‘lewd’ works, a Sydney bookseller has been fined. ‘All Quiet on the Western Front is under the ban. The
censors have refused to license a British film version of ‘White Cargo,’ though it closely follows the spoken play, so often produced in Sydney. Norman Lindsay's
novel ‘Redheap' may be added to the list.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 2V, George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: 111,-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 21/9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : S 3 Barracl: Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2,
Temple Bar 5793.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to ant address in Australasia,
r reelijy: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. Gd.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies.- — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: Jjoz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional 1,0 z., Id. All Sea Route: IGoz., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: l,oz. or part thereof,
id. V.lsewliere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
A HUMAN PROFESSOR 2
A LAST TESTAMENT .. 2
ANOTHER BOOK RAID 5
BRENT OF BIN BIN AGAIN 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. .-5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON .. ..7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
HOW LONG IS IT GOING TO LAST? .. 8
.JOHN BULL AND AUSTRALIA . . . . 8
A SWEDE LOOKS AT US 8
A POLICY FOR COOLIES 8
TWO SORTS OF COFFIN-SHIPS .. ..8
THE BRIGHTER LOCAL MARKET . . . . 9
DIVIDENDS AND CHRONIC DEFICITS . . 9
LAST DAYS OF THE SEDDONIANS . . . . 9
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 9
POLITICAL POINTS (with cartoonlets by
Frith) 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. •. 11, 12
SHADOW SHOWS—
A GUIDE TO THE PICTURES 13
A CARTOON BY' PERCIVAL 13
PERSONAL (with drawings) 14
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. .. 10
AMATEUR THEATRICALS (with drawings
by Frith) . . .. .. •• ..16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 17, 18
THIS WEEK’S INVESTMENT TIP .. ..17
BURNS, PHILP 17
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA 17
PETERS-ARCTIC 17
STANDARD-WAYGOOD 17
INVESTMENT QUESTIONS ANSWERED . . 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 20, 21
MAN ON THE LAND 22, 25
CHEAP LIME IN VICTORIA 22
THE ELM AS A FODDER TREE .. . . 22
CONTROLLING CODLIN MOTH .. •• 22
TURKEYS ON THE FARM 22
QUESTIONS ANSWERED 25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT 26
SMOKE-OH (with three drawings) .. .. 28
POVERTY POINT -31
THE INKY WAY' 31
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, etc 33
SPORTING (illustrated) 35, 36
MOONEE VALLEY AND RANDWICK RACES 35
THE FIFTEEN .. 36
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 39
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 41
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 44
The New Serial—
“THE PASSAGE,” by Y'ance Palmer. . 42, 43, 45
“As We Said Before”—
A NEW WEEKLY FEATURE .. ..47
A COMPLETE STORY—
“ALL FRIENDS”—
By Margaret Fane and Hilary Lofting. .49, 50
VERSE. —By B. Berry, Gerardy, Roderic
Quinn, Llywelyn Lucas .. . . 45, 50
NEXT WEEK.
“MARCHITA,” a complete story in which J. B.
Cooper relates how Jacob Hoggenstrauss got his
Spanish scenario, with Australian assistance.
WEDNESDAY, MAY 21, 1930.
HOW LONG IS IT GOING TO
LAST?
The question is usually asked about this
financial stringency as though it were some-
thing like mumps that runs its course and
then magically disappears. But up and
down this country are the remains of towns
which thrived for a few years and then
were given up to the goats. It was not
mumps they had; wherefore it seems advis-
able to first inquire into the nature of our
trouble and determine its causes. It may
then be possible to make at least some sort
of guess at how long it will last —or whether
Australia will have to be given up to the
goats, too.
One group of politicians asserts that
economic disturbance is world-wide. This
is true; but it does not follow that it is
therefore not necessary for us to do any-
thing in the matter. A world-wide epidemic
may be just as virulent as a disease con-
fined to a few people widely scattered;
and it demands more strenuous measures
because it is pretty certain to be more
difficult to overcome. This World-wide
economic disturbance did not just happen.
There has been a fall in the price-levels of
almost all commodities, including wool,
wheai and metals, in which Australia is
chiefly interested as an exporter. So
general has been this fall that, though
special causes influence special markets,
there seems to be one general cause; one
school of thought sees this general cause in
the shrinkage in the world’s output of gold
combined with the wider use of gold as
the single standard of value. History cer-
tainly shows that abundance of gold means
high-price levels; in other words, the world
is prepared to pay more of the metal for
a given quantity of commodities when it
is abundant than when it is scarce. If this
theory is sound, then, so far as gold is a
governing factor, the world cannot look for
a return of high prices until some new
Golden Mile or Rand, is discovered; and
of that there seems no early prospect.
But while there appears to be world-wide
economic disturbance arising out of this
and other causes operating almost univer-
sally, without any doubt whatever there
are also local causes producing local dis-
turbances, and aggravating the general
depression. In our own case those local
causes and their results are most evident.
For many years past our exports have been
quite insufficient to pay our foreign bills
for interest and imports. We have got
over the difficulty by giving our lOU’s for
40 or 50 millions a year. The time came,
however, when we could not raise loans on
anything like the old terms, if on any terms
at all. Our foreign interest bill is over
30 millions a year; that is the amount
which the various Governments have under-
taken to pay. In order to ensure the pay-
ment of that money, the Commonwealth
Government shipped away all the gold in
Australia beyond what was regarded as a
necessary backing for our note issue, pro-
hibited private gold shipments, and
restricted imports of foreign goods by super-
taxes and embargoes. At the same time,
and for the same general purpose, the banks
put a tax of nearly 7 p.c. on imports by
raising the exchange rate to that figure,
and by the same act offered exports a
bonus of approximately 7 p.c. The object,
of all this was to so reduce the imports and
so increase the exports that the exports
should pay for the imports and leave 30
millions over to pay our interest.
So far as we are concerned that is the
whole problem. Whether there is world-
wide disturbance only affects our position
in this way: it makes our problem the
greater because it adds to our difficulties
of finding a market for our exports. We
had been going to the bad 40 or 50 millions
a year; actually if we had been paying
our way we should now find ourselves com-
pelled either to greatly reduce our imports
or increase our exports in order to keep
square. And the sudden increase of our
exports is tremendously difficult, seeing
that they are almost wholly raw products
whose prices have fallen the most seriously.
In the first nine months of the current finan-
cial year our exports were valued at 38
millions less than they were for the cor-
responding months of the previous year.
Nor is there any bright hope for the
immediate future. The wheat market is
still very weak and metals are at prices
lower than they have been for many years
—in most cases lower than they have been
hitherto in this century.
When we ask, then, how long this depres-
sion will last, we have to realise that this
is not an ill that will cure itself; it will last
until we cure it. And in view of the
adverse circumstances the cure will be
neither easy nor palatable. Our exports
must be 30 millions more than our im-
ports; until we can borrow abroad, that is
the only possible way of getting out of
our troubles.
This readjustment does not, however,
mean a return to old conditions. They are
gone. But there can be infinitely better
conditions than the old ones. Out of the
enormous flood of overseas imports Aus-
tralia got little. The wages paid for making
them were all distributed abroad. But,
tremendously important though it will be
to substitute local manufactures for foreign
imports, that will not complete the cure.
There must be certain imports; they are
our raw materials. These and the 30-odd
millions of our interest bill must be paid
for by exports; and those exports must find
a market against the world’s producers.
Cost of production therefore matters
greatly.
To the question, then, “How long will
this depression last?” we can no more than
give these replies:—
The length of the depression is a matter
for ourselves to determine. It is due to
our imports being greatly in excess of our
exports. We must correct the balance.
For some years we got over the difficulty
of importing more than we exported by
borrowing. If we could find lenders we could
get over the difficulty again in the same
way. But sooner or later we should be
faced with another crisis.
But, though there is a call for immediate
readjustment, our exports cannot be greatly
increased at shprt notice; therefore depend-
ence must be put upon a reduction of imports
to save the situation, especially in its early
stages.
Saving the situation docs not mean pro-
longed industrial distress. It can be made
to provide for this community a great deal
of work hitherto done for us at great
expense by foreign workpeople.
Heavy reduction of imports, however, will
not alone save us. We must produce for
export markets sufficient pay 30-odd mil-
lions of interest and also for certain neces-
sary imports. The cost of production is
therefore also a factor of the first import-
ance.
JOHN BULL AND AUSTRALIA.
w
A SWEDE LOOKS AT US.
The writer is a young Swedish
journalist who is working his way round
the world. He has seen a good deal
of Australia and spent jour months in
M aoriland.
An editor of a Sydney paper asked me to
write “something cheerful” for him. As
a Swede I cannot be very cheerful about
your Australian tariff. Unemployment is
almost, certain to result in Sweden, because
your tariff will exclude electrical machinery,
matches and other things which we have
been exporting to you. Sweden has tariffs
to help some of its industries, but the view
it takes is that no country can live in a
watertight compartment; there must be
trade between nations. To me it seems
that you have lost your proper relation to
other countries’ prices and that your salva-
tion will come from sending more goods
overseas.
Canberra has interested me as a study,
but it was surely a great and unnecessary
expense to build a special town away in the
country for a capital. It is not a seaport;
it has no natural resources worth talking
about; it is not even on the main line
between Sydney and Melbourne. You must
have had your reasons for establishing it,
but I cannot regard it as a good business
proposition.
Military training is a thing I have been
frequently asked about. Do I think it
should be voluntary? No, I do not. In
Sweden we have compulsory training and
ace very proud of it. But our system is
different from the one that your Govern-
ment has suspended—or is it abandoned.
A man is not trained till he is 21, and then
he has to serve for a whole year, the pay
being sixpence a day. There is great com-
petition among regiments, which pride
themselves on their smart appearance and
devotion to duty, and there is plenty ot
hard physical training. After he has served
his year each soldier goes back for a few
short periods and is then put on the reserve
until he reaches the age of 40.
This system has more real effect on a
man’s efficiency and physique than a lot of
week-end outings. It also secures discipline.
1 read in one of your papers of your
Governor-General having been whistled at
by cadets so that he could not make an
intended speech. That would seem terrible
to a Swede, as we think proper discipline
is as necessary to the efficient handling of
an army as oil is necessary to the running
of a motor-car. Our system also removes
the objection that military training may
be demoralising to a boy who is in the
formative age, because we let him grow
up first.
Since I came to Australia an attempt has
been made to introduce Prohibition into
one of the States; It would, I think, be
impossible to enforce Prohibition in a
country with such a long coastline for
smugglers to use. We have a system in
Sweden which works uncommonly well in
preventing drunkenness, and which would
probably be better for Australia than in-
effective Prohibition. Under the Bratt
system, as it is called, the State controls
all intoxicating liquor, and manufactures
nearly all of it. To obtain liquor, each
adult has to apply for a book containing
12 pages, one for each month, and posses-
sion entitles him to four bottles of wine
(or the equivalent) per month. The State
demands these coupons from the retailer in
return for the liquor supplied, so no
retailer can sell without getting a coupon.
You are not allowed to hoard your papers
so as to have a periodical burst, and at a
restaurant you are allowed only a certain
quantity per meal; if you want to increase
your allowance you have to include tee-
totallers in your party. We find this system
satisfies nearly everybody and does not
lead to the underworld trading which is the
curse of the Prohibition experiment in
America.
BERTIL PALMERTZ.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Policy for Coolies.
Partly owing to our geographical position
and partly owing to our political crooks,
very many of our workers are thinking in
terms of half a century ago. When Marx
was writing, hours were long, wages low,
and no one foresaw an improvement. Marx,
a martyr to dyspepsia, assumed that things
would get worse for the workers and better
for the employers. He was right inasmuch
as production has increased and the employ-
ing classes have made more money. What
he did not visualise was that, wherever pro-
duction increased by the efforts of an edu-
cated . proletariat, the pay and standard
of comfort of the latter were going to rise
proportionately.
Samuel Gompers, the U.S. Labor leader,
was the first prominent unionist to point
this out. Affer the World War, when
Robert Hunter, of the 1.W.W.. wanted him
to swing U.S. Labor towards Sovietism, he
said, in effect, that the Russian system
might do for tired coolies, but would not
be tolerated by American workers. He
derided the class-hatred doctrines preached
by Marx, not on ethical grounds, but
because he considered it bad business for
high-class workers: —
“Millions of U.S. workers have a ( shorter
day by many hours than they had 30 years
ago; the organisation of capital has elimin-
ated uncertainty; wages are constantly
increasing and the workers’ standard ot
comfort is now a luxury standard.”
In “Men and Machines” Stuart Chase, the
American economist, compares the house-
hold assets of a married U.S. artisan in a
regular job at the end of last century and
now. Modern working-class luxuries, the
money to pay for them and the leisure
to enjoy them have been made possible
by developments and inventions which
Marx did not even faintly foresee. Modern
employers are eager that the workers should
earn enough to pay for such goods; and
again it is a matter of business. Brown, the
gramophone-maker, could not keep going
if the employees of Smith, the motor-car
manufacturer, could not afford to buy his
wares; and vice versa. Moscow doctrine is
the negation of this arrangement, which,
obviously, can only function behind tariff
walls. Under internationalism both employ-
ers and employees would have to compete
with communities in which the workers are
too unsophisticated to want wireless sets
or motor-cars, good clothes or expensive
food.
The chief problem of our workers lies,
therefore, in deciding between a white
culture and a colored one, a national and
an international system of industrialism;
between uniting against cheap labor and
facing the assault that is inevitably coming
from cheap labor in a state of disunity.
Coffin-ships of One Sort and Another.
Theoretically a man who proposes going
on a voyage, especially if he intends taking
his family, should make a personal examina-
tion of the ship and assure himself of its


THE IMAGINARY CATASTROPHE.
“The slump is a Nationalist myth.”— Labor-leader Lang.
KNOWLEDGEABLE STRANGER: “There’s nothing wrong with that car, and if the owner gives me a three years’ contract at a couple o’ thousand a year I’ll prove it.”
seaworthiness. He should inspect the bot-
tom inside and out, though the outside
inspection would involve diving underneath
and staying under for a considerable time.
He should test the engines, and overhaul
the cables, the anchors, the scuppers, the
bilge and the binnacle. Most particularly
he should concentrate on the lifeboats and
the stores. As the law isn’t a complete ass
all the time it decides that this is impos-
sible, and takes charge of the matter itself
in all civilised countries, wherefore the
coffin-ship is less of a nuisance than it once
was.
But when a man proposes to take a per-
manent voyage in a life-assurance office,
embarking his family’s prospects along with
him, the Australian law, and especially the
law of N. S. Wales (there being h miser-
able lack of all-Australian legislation on the
subject), practically tells him to depend on
his own inspection of the vessel. And it may
not be open to inspection, being perhaps
moored in a Sydney back street hundreds
of miles away, and the books and the inse-
curities being locked up and unintelligible.
The coffin insurance craft is really the
worse venture of the two, for the uncerti-
ficated skipper may intend to get off before
the sinkage and leave by train for parts un-
known, while the certificated captain of the
coffin-ship is booked for the whole voyage.
In addition the insurance shipmaster can
sell his ship and cargo and passengers to
any similar marauder whom he meets on
the way, and disclaim further responsibility.
The Bruce-Page Government drafted a
good but belated measure to deal with the
evil, but was pushed out of office before
the thing could be passed. Resurrected as
a private member’s bill it is being glanced
at now and then in the Senate; it is re-
corded that a sub-clause was amended at
Thursday’s sitting, whereupon progress was
reported. Legislation is even more difficult
than the average at Canberra. Everybody
wants to get away in winter because the
mean temperature for three months is 44
degrees. Everybody wants to get away at
week-ends and at Christmas. But however
scarce may be the civil law for the preven-
tion of rotten insurance there is still
criminal law to deal with it when the worst
has happened, or is believed to have hap-
pened. In this respect the police have
been showing some activity of late.
*
The Brighter Itocal Market.
Just now neither London nor New York
would look at an Australian loan unless at
a rate which would suggest that the bailiff
was in. When even 6 per cent. Common-
wealth securities are quoted below par in
Bullopolis the attempt to sell a new lot of
the same goods to the British public might
send vulues down in panic.
Still, by what looks like a paradox but
isn’t one, both British and United States
from Marconi’s yacht in Genoa Gulf. Its
staff —all Australian-trained—makes wire-
less gear for hundreds of ships, as well as
Pacific islands. Yet it has had to contend
against post-office conservatism —witness
the stubborn resistance of the British
authorities to the introduction of overseas
wireless telephony, for which pretty well
everything but their permission was ready
a year ago—and political meddling such as
has saddled N. S. Wales, at least, with an
unspeakably bad broadcasting service and
threatens to result in thumping compensa-
tion having to be paid to the companies
dispossessed by Bruce.
Australia has sunk fifty millions in post
offices, telegraphs and telephones. This is
a dashed bad investment. The post office
generally shows a profit, though not nearly
as much as it ought to show considering
that it charges three halfpence for deliver-
ing a letter compared with a penny in
Maoriland; and efficiency has never been
its strong point. Every spring it makes a
painful exhibition of itself by imploring
people with friends in Britain to post their
Christmas correspondence then, otherwise
it can’t guarantee delivery until the follow-
ing year. The telephone branch, though
it exacts twopence a call in city public
boxes, as against a penny in Maoriland,
produces a heavy annual loss, and so does
the telegraph branch. Here are the losses
since 1924:
Telephones. Telegraphs.
1924- .. .. £258,619 £227,175
1925- . . . . 296,684 308,632
1926- .. .. 339,270 278,720
1927- .. .. 322,438 312,075
1928- .. . . 247,212 228,134
Totals .. . . £1,464,223 £1,354,736
Nearly three millions in five years—and,
of course, the taxpayer had to find it all.
With the post office counted in, there was
a loss of £242,322 in 1924-25, of £285,337 in
1925-26. of £172,061 in 1926-27, and of
£230,663 in 1927-28. A profit of £56,524 was
proudly announced last year, but these
cumulative results are disgraceful.
What’s wrong with selling a half-interest
in this saddening show, less one share, to
a concern like Amalgamated Wireless and
applying whatever we could get for it to
the reduction of the national debt?
+
Last Days of the Secldonians.
The resignation of Joseph Ward, Prim-
inister in the so-called United Government
of Maoriland, marks a further, and pos-
sibly a final, stage in the decline of what
can most appropriately be called the Sed-
donian party. That party used to call
itself Liberal. It inherited a few radical
principles from Ballance and John McKen-
zie and gave them some practical applica-
tion when Seddon was consul, but in pro-
cess of time all of them came under the
soft pedal and Some of them were definitely
abandoned. Seddon called himself neither
people are willing to lend Australia money
at a fairly moderate rate, and the money
market here is brightening, and the value of
Commonwealth securities is rising here
while it is falling in England. By what
looks like another paradox, but isn’t one,
these friendly people might lend enough to
fill Theodore’s proposed ten-million-pounds
loan four times over, and the situation
abroad might grow worse all the time.
Within the last few months a lot of out-
siders who send goods and picture-show
materials here, and sell them through their
own agencies, have had trouble about get-
ting their takings sent "home.” So have
insurance companies and other profit-mak-
ing shows. When they go to the bank in
the old familiar way, and say thay have a
million of Australian paper money, and want
a draft payable (less exchange) in gold in
London, they are told that a limited
amount of the scarce metal is available in
cases of necessity, but theirs isn’t recog-
nised as such, and they had better wait.
If sovereigns could be obtained at the Com-
monwealth Bank, where notes are nominally
redeemable, the messenger might still be
stopped before he got clear of the premises,
and the bag taken from him under the gold
confiscation law. Payment for it in Govern-
ment paper would get the foreign share-
holders no 'forrarder.” So many of these
people are willing to exchange their paper
wealth (no good anywhere save here) for
an interest in a Government loan (also of
no value anywhere save here) and earn
something while waiting for the situation to
change. Some of them may invest in land
or houses or shares, but Government stock
is convenient and plentiful.
Naturally there is a tendency in some
cases to shift the manufacturing business
here. If the Scandinavian incombustible
match is made here, but still owned in Ice-
land, there is merely the problem of get-
ting the net profits (perhaps 5 or 10 per
cent.) “home” sooner or later, but if the
concern sends the finished goods here
(despite the tariff) there is a question of
getting the gross takings “home” or leav-
ing them in indefinite cold storage while
the Viking pines for his locked-up capital.
+ 1
Dividends and Chronic Deficits.
“Tuart”: The Commonwealth has half a
million invested in Amalgamated Wireless:
and it is a first-class investment. Last year
the concern made a net profit of £79,925;
in two years the Commonwealth, which
holds 500,001 of the 985,518 shares issued,
has received £48,528 in dividends.
The co.’s Beam stations have been strik-
ingly successful, and, being progressive
through and through, it has made praise-
worthy contributions to such modern
marvels as the inauguration of a wireless
telephone service with London and the
turning on of the Sydney Town Hall lights
a Liberal nor a Socialist, but a Humanist.
He was an expert in preparing popular pro-
grammes, and didn’t care to cramp his
style with doctrines of any sort.
In its palmy days the party rested on a
solid Lib-Lab. basis of supporters, and
sought to placate both sections. But the
Labor element, a little restive under
Seddon, quitted Ward, and Massey’s
“Farmers’ party” arrived. It ruled Maori-
land for many years on .the votes of a
minority of the electors, enabled to do this
by reason of the country quota law, which
gives rural electors 28 per cent, more voting
power than urban electors (the so-called
Liberals enacted that), and by the abolition
of the second ballot. Coates, Massey’s suc-
cessor, crashed not because his opponents
were any more united or sure of their
opinions than they were during the Massey
regime, but merely because the pendulum
had to swing.
The latest Ward Administration, holding
office by sufferance of the Labor party, has
had a colorless career. For many months
Ward was too ill to assume his duties in
the House; discipline has suffered, and
members have broken away. Labor relishes
the situation and finds it profitable. Recent
utterances by Holland, its leader, show that
he is weakening on the old idea of driving
the two non-Labor parties into one camp.
His references to the Wardites are friendly,
even cordial, and he points to the alleged
socialist experiments of Seddon with an
almost proprietary air. Unintentionally he
is helping to dig the “United” party’s grave.
That party was rent asunder by schisms
when portfolios were allotted; it will prob-
ably be rent by more over the question
of leadership, since Forbes is a. southerner
and Ransom a northerner. There is an old
political quarrel between South and North.
Imperial Economic Unity.
Baron Melchett, who was Alfred Moritz
Mond till the year before last, has written
a book. The new baron is politically related
to Lords Beaverbrook and Rothermere, who
run the movement for Freetrade inside the
Empire, and run it regardless of cost.
It is proved without difficulty that inter-
state freedom of trade is possible over
immense areas such as Canada, the United
States and Australia, where the population
is fairly homogeneous, and where there is
an elective central authority which makes
the tariff against people outside. But, it
would be different in a combination which
contained such elements as Australia and
India. This Commonwealth doesn’t .want
to become homogeneous with Gandhi. It
has no desire to let Gandhi assist in the
management of its financial affairs even to
the extent of agreeing on a uniform' dog-
tax, the uniform Indian dog being a doubt-
ful animal. And it would hate to cast a
gratuitous insult at Gandhi by forming a
combination with him inside and yet outside.


MILD . GOOD
•V
V-
«N l
m
■
■ 8
m
am
m
i H
PURE TOBACCO
some things
_ Qan’t be
irrtproved
fsd
f
POLITICAL
POINTS
On Thursday the Prime Minister implored
the Commonwealth public-service unions not
to lodge so many “claims involving the Gov-
ernment in heavy expenditure” with Arbi-
trator Hunt, who has never been known
to reject such “claims” in their entirety.
On the same day the embarrassed Bavin-
sliaws asked for leave to bring in a bill
reducing civil-service salaries for the next
Painless extraction not guaranteed.
year by one-twelfth, but leaving increments
and Crown superannuation payments un-
touched. Scullin may escape punishment,
at least for a time, but the familiar threats
are being hurled at Bavin, and public ser-
vants are being briskly “endorsed” as Labor
candidates. The executives of these organ-
isations are becoming surprisingly like
the Praetorian Guards of the later Roman
Empire, or the Janissaries of the sultans,
who raised up or destroyed their alleged
rulers as suited their own convenience.
The Commonwealth revenue for the nine
months to March 31 was over £3,000,000
short of expenditure; still, the position is
£75,000 better than at the same date last year.
And before March 31 the good effects of the
new tariff were hardly beginning to be appa-
rent. The total debt, Federal and State,
increased by £18,385,973 in the six months
between September and March. Australia is
supposed 'to be struggling along without new
loan money, but its Treasurers have a mar-
vellous knack of finding odd bits of financial
grazing in very poor paddocks. The entire
owings are mentioned as over 1117 millions
as compared with 1099 millions in Sep-
tember, 1929, so our country has had another
centenary without noticing it.
An advance in wool prices and excellent
rains, in which all the wheatgrowing States
shared, brightened the _ outlook last week.
Also aggregate meetings of northern
(N.S.W.) coalminers, who have been idle foi-
ls months, returned large majorities in favor
of the terms of settlement foolishly rejected
in November. That doesn’t mean that the
associated mines will reopen immediately,
or that all the old hands will be re-employed
when they do; but the whistles must blow
soon, for Miners’ Federation funds are nearly
exhausted, and appeals to Russia brought
nothing but words. Even “Bondy” Hoare’s
flowers of mob-oratory (the northern district
president spoke for nearly three hours at one
meeting, for the full three hours at another,
and for just on four hours at a third) are
now seen to be a poor substitute for meat
and drink.
The oddest fish in the House, of Reps is
Lewis, the member for Corio (Vic.), who
prides himself on being (1) an “advanced"
Laboritc, (2) a prohibitionist, and (3) a
pacifist. As an “advanced” Laborite he is
“out to abolish the capitalist system,” and
at the May Day celebration on Yarra Bank
lie called upon the
workers to “wage
vigorously the in-
dustrial and poli -
- ti'cal struggle.’’
As a prohibition-
ist he believes in
enforce meat,
which in the
IT. S. A. has
brought violent
death to quite
iunocent
people.
His pacifism
is such that he,
said in the
House “I did not
Too much of a
mouthful.
go to the war, and if another war breaks out
I shall still refuse to fight”; also, “I advo-
cate the complete disarming of this coun-
try .... no issue is worth the sacrifice of
human life.” This mixture is proving too
strong for even the A.L.P.’s stomach, and
the gentleman has been rudely informed
at recent meetings that his. won’t
be required in the next Parliament.
Prime Minister Scullin has stated twice
more within a week that he is lying in wait
for information about manufacturers pro-
tected under the new tariff who are raising
prices, and that if he gets on the track of
any such iniquity he will perform. He
should add that he prefers the informant
to support his tale by an affidavit stating,
among other details, that the gentleman has
no interest in trying to damage Australian
industry. Also Communist whisperers should
be barred, as they aim at stopping Australia
in general, and will gladly furnish any
credulous Minister with “facts” of the
deepest dye, retail or in bulk.
The extravagant language and awkward
manoeuvres of Assistant Minister Forde have
turned Labor members against his Cotton
Bounty Bill, and the Prime Minister testily
placed it at the bottom of the list of Minis-
terial measures last week. There is, how-
ever, a growing opinion in the party that
the Government ought to give the proposed
gold bonus a spin. It is felt that there
is no glamor in cotton picking as a pursuit
for Australians, and that the growers, at
least, have had price guarantees and boun-
ties for ten years. On the other hand, gold
has been associated with great chapters in
our history and mighty recoveries from
slumps, while as prospectors and miners Aus-
tralians are unexcelled.
An old Queensland loan was renewed in
London the other day, with the Common-
wealth guarantee of course. The old loan
cost 4 per cent, interest, and the new one,
including discount and expenses, costs £6
6s. 6d. per cent. That sort of thing is hap-
pening too often to be pleasant.
The elegant dining-room for Vie. Parlia-
mentarians will be finished at the end of
May. Towards the cost £50,000 was pro-
vided by the Commonwealth Parliament
when it departed for Canberra. But it took
a long time to prepare the plans, and then
the job was held up while the timber strike
was on. Law factories are not only expen-
sive to build but costly to run. Vic.’s
little bill is not far short of £130,000 p.a.
Moore (Queensland) and Bavin (N. S.
Wales) are trying to restore, the 48-hour
week. Moore is threatened with a railway
strike, and Bavin’s majority on the second
reading of his measure was reduced to one,
Sanders (Willoughby) and Tresidder (Rand-
wick) voting with the Langites. Sanders,
who is now the “endorsed” candidate for his
constituency (he beat the “endorsed” can-
didate last time) told the Assembly that
when the Nationalists were in opposition
“we unanimously agreed that if we wanted
to win to the Treasury benches we would
have to preserve the Forty-four Hours
Act,” and that a pledge was given accord-
ingly—as indeed it was. Vote-catching and
pre-selection are the twin curses of Bavin’s
party.
The Federal Arbitration Court has refused
an application for preference to the Water-
side Workers’ Federation, and the Senate
has disallowed a Scullidore regulation com-
pelling the Melbourne volunteers to assemble
at the unionist pick-up place—which would
have resulted in assault and battery on a vast
scale. A good deal of sympathy is felt for
the Melbourne and Adelaide wharfies who
were sacrificed by their foolish leaders in
1928, the year of the strike against the
Beeby award; but the Government has not
helped them by its clumsy handling of the
situation and its veiled threats to ship-
owners.
Mount Isa-, the north-west Queensland
silver mine with £3,000,000 of nominal capi-
tal, on which great hopes are built, was
within a few days of closing down recently,
but the State Government guaranteed a
bank overdraft of £500,000, and, in the
words of Premier Moore, “saved the situa-
tion, the credit of the State and the mining
industry.” The State guarantees with which
the country is strewn would make a notable
addition to the State debts if they were
included in the statement of public liabili-
ties; and the State debts are guaranteed by
the Commonwealth.
Two railways to be promoted by private
enterprise are under consideration in N.S.W.,
one from Manly to Newport and one from
Bungendore to Captain’s Flat. In each case
the promoters want Government to be respon-
sible for the interest. Still, they are public
works of the disguised loan description, and
public works have a fascination akin to
that of cocaine.
Australian Treasurers are gloomily an-
nouncing that the railway deficits will bo
bigger than ever this year; Stevens estimates
the Ma State’s railway and tramwa*y losses
at £3,048,000. The British railway com-
panies did not sit back and wait until dis-
aster smote them. They applied to Parlia-
ment for permission to go in for road trans-
port, and have put seven millions into the
business. The result is that they have cap-
tured a great proportion of the trade in
carrying goods and passengers by motor
vehicle which has become such a feature of
modern England. Of course these cos. are
free from the blight of political control, nor
have they had to pay 48-hour-week wages
for 44 hours’ work.
An application by the Vic. railway service
for better treatment from the Arbitration
Court led to the chief railway accountant
informing Judge Drake-Brockman that
£16,500,000 of old age and natural decay
had never been provided for. A correspond-
ing amount of the debt on the lines should,
in common honesty, have been paid off or
provided out of revenue to keep the asset as
good as new; but a succession of Treasurers
had been warned of this incessantly by the
Commissioners with no result. Treasurers
have ceased to worry about this sort of
fraud, just as Solomon became accustomed
to marriage.
Ex-Premier McCormack was to have been
called as a witness at the Mungana inquiry
last week, but it was explained that he was
an inmate of a Sydney private hospital.
Three sisters gave evidence as to having held
shares in Mungana Mines, Ltd., which was
such a poor deal for the Queensland Gov-
ernment, as nominees for their brother;
Frederick Reid, one of the principals, had
previously declared that McCormack’s hold-
ing amounted to 5001 shares, as against 388,
the number given in Parliament. A move
for the production of the McCormack bank-
books has been countered by an interim
injunction, and the argument has reached
the State Full Court.
Tasmania being in difficulties, the propo-
sition is made that it is too small to have
a State Government of its own, and should
be saved by annexation to Victoria. Tassy
is a little over twice the area of Belgium,
and 154,000 times the dimensions of Vatican
City. The cost of its Parliamentary Gov-
The Commonwealth pot calls the Tas-
manian kettle black.
ernment, by last report, was £49,266 for a
year, including the Governor and a general
election, If this could be reduced to the
Victorian level the saving would be between
two and three bob per inhabitant annually;
in other words, the annual expenditure would
be reduced from £l3 3s. 9d. per head to
about £l3s. Id. It is necessary to think out
a bigger device.
Tasmania cultivates the art of growing
old gracefully. The Federal Public Accounts
Committee has been told that 50 out of the
island’s 89 locomotives are at least 30 years
old, the daddy engine of the family being
aged 50. Nevertheless the trains arrive some-
how ; no case of the total disappearance of
a train and its passengers has yet been
reported. For three years the whole system
has failed to pay working expenses, and in-
terest has been all loss. On the other hand.
Tassy has been of late years more honest
and decent in its loan dealings than any
other State, and possibly virtue may have its
reward in time—though time is a caterpillar
when a country has its purple youth to live
down.
Anybody who trips from Sydney to New-
port and beyond on the day of rest may
notice that there are 240 estate-agents on
the route, and that 230 of them are ready
to take a deposit on an allotment at any
hour of the day or night, balance payable
by weekly instalments spread over 25 years.
The Banco Full Court has nullified a £2OO
sale by one of these on the, ground that the
deal was effected on Sunday (though the
document was signed on Monday), and was
consequently null and void under an old
statute of Charles 11. Efforts have been
made of late to rehabilitate the memory of
this monarch. If he has been instrumental,
however indirectly, in bumping an Austra-
lian estate-agent, then his good deeds out-
weigh the bad ones.
The interminable Egyptian is still talking
about his claim to the Sudan, from which
the natives ran him out nearly half a cen-
tury ago. He came to an agreement that the
Sudan, which he can’t possibly hold, is none
of liis affair. Then he resumed argument as if
he had agreed to nothing, and discoursed
Entertaining an agent unawares.
iu London for several weeks. In time he
sent a messenger to Cairo for further instruc-
tions, and explained a further long delay
by the story that this agent had been lost,
or bushed, or bogged, or eaten by lions on
the return trip. Inquiry proved that lie hadn't
started on the return trip. Palaver began
afresh, and progressed for more weeks. At
one Stage the negotiators sat almost continu-
ously for a day and two nights, and found
themselves where they started. Three alter-
natives appealed to the Gyppo mind: (1)
That he should get all he wanted, after whicn
he would ask for more; (2) that matters
should be hung up for a year, when conver-
sation would resume; and (3) that the
matter should be referred to the. League ot
Nations, whose decision, if disagreeable,
should be open to argument. A condensed
sort of person like Bismarck would probably
have closed the debate by handing Gyp. the
terms of settlement and a steerage ticket
back to Cairo.
Horatio Bottomley, told by Canada that
it has no use for him, is to be admitted to
Australia. In his favor it is to be said that
lie may bring some money and spend, it here,
and not being an importer he isn’t likely
to take any of our money away. It isn't
probable that he will start an insurance co.,
and if he does it can’t be worse than a
lot we have already. To a certainty he
won’t organise a strike or wave a red nag
or preach revolution or mix up with basher
gangs, and his language will be better than
Lang’s. Bottomley, moreover, has brains,
and if brains are infectious other people may
catch them off him.
“Insider”; The exclusion of Donald Grant
from the Labor ticket selected for the Syd-
ney City Council (B. 14/5/’3O) was “ar-
ranged.” Even the Beds realised that Gar-
den and Grant constituted a load . which
they could not carry—the recollection of
the disaster following the running of the
ex-I.W.W. person for the Senate is too
recent and startling to be The
“mistake” in the first count and the “indig-
nation” of the Domainer’s supporters were
only clumsy camouflage.
NO BONES ABOUT IT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Opening his campaign for the Sydney municipal
elections, Mr. J. S. Garden predicted that labor
would win 10 seats out of 15, and then it would be
spoils to the victors with a vengeance.”
Though this is a censorious world
Where all are butts for slander,
No charge at me shall e’er be hurled
Concerning lack of candor.
See, for a virtue pure I claim,
A merit advantageous,
What others, taunted with the same,
Would stigmatise in words of flame
A calumny outrageous.
Into an error grave you’ll fall,
I say, if you expect me
To do my best for one and all
Supposing you elect me.
On such a principle I’m not
Inclined my aims to model.
No patience for such talk I’ve got,
To me it’s simply greasy rot
And undiluted twaddle.
Some put the city’s welfare first
And swear such work they’ll bend to;
But that’s a task that I’ll be cursed
If ever I’ll descend to.
My job’s to get the party back,
My solemn, sacred duty
To cheer along the hungry pack,
The spoils of victory to whack
And parcel out the booty.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Nikko”: It was just on dusk when a
bevy of flappers from the tennis court up
the street arrived at the corner and settled
down in' the tram-shelter to await the city
car. Simultaneously there entered a small,
inoffensive-looking man, Hvho, breathing hard,
mopped his brow with a green handkerchief
and began a conversation with the girls.
“Terrible murder in the nex’ street,” he said.
BREAKING IT GENTLY TO WILLIAM.
“No, Bill, I really couldn’t marry a man who wastes his money!’
“Wastes his money! Good Heavens, do I waste money?”
“Yes, Bill, I’m afraid so. You spend it on me.”
“When?” cliorussed the flappers. “Jus’
now,” said the little man. “He crep’ up
behind the pore old feller and slashed his
throat from ear to ear.” The shuddering
audience moved closer together, and the nar-
rator arose and stood before them. “The
bloody come gusliin’ out like water from a
hose.” he continued with unction. Presently
the flappers gathered up coats and racquets
raid fled squealing into the dusk. The flight
was due to the morbid curiosity of one of
tlieir number. “Who committed the murder?”
she inquired. “Me,” said the little man
modestly.
“Shop” : He slid out of a taxi and asked to
be shown over the vacant flats. He liked
the first floor, and praised the view from the
balcony, though all we’d noticed from it
was other balconies across the street. That
night ho was back again to go into more
raptures over that view. Next night a friend
came to share in the vision of loveliness.
The missus and I were debating whether
we shouldn’t double the rent in considera-
tion of the beauties we still hadn’t located
when he drove up again, this time with a
“removalist,” who was to decide whether
his bulky furniture could be squeezed into
our minute apartments. Deciding was such
a lengthy business that it was nearly mid-
night before they departed, flinging down the
borrowed key on the caretaker’s doorstep.
That w’as the last we saw of him. More
than a week afterwards a lady in a fur
coat and flesh-colored stockings called to
see the same flat, not with any _ idea of
tenanting it, as she belatedly explained, but
just to make sure “that blarsted ’usband of
mine could reely squat there with a coupla
private D’s, an’ spy on me an’ me gentleman
friend.” A thrilling sight it must have
been; and we reckoned he might have given
us a week’s rent.
“Tommy Taltingan”: Many a throat on
the Barrier would have gone dry in the old
days if it hadn’t been for Emil Resell, who
died in Melbourne last month, and his part-
ner John Penrose. They set up a brewery
at Silverton, and delivered their barrels all
over the field behind a donkey team that
straggled away from one camp almost to the
next one. But the waggon came after them
all right, and kept the pumps going. Resell
moved on to Broken Hill to save the don-
keys the indignity of dragging soft stuff
through the mulga, and between times raised
just about the sweetest voice that Broken
Hill ever heard. Finally they fell apart,
Penrose moving on to South Africa
and Emil Resch going to Melbourne to make
a name for himself as a brewer of lager,
while his elder brother, who had made his
start at Wilcannia, came to Sydney, bought
the Waverley brewery at a gift price and
made a fortune. Emil with the glorious
voice had cultivated tastes which his rich
and ruder elder brother spurned. “Emil!
Emil!” he said to me once. “If Emil had
as much money as I’ve got, he’d go to bed
in a silk hat.”
“Garry”: It is 11 years since the Ross
Smith party flew a Yickers-Vimy from
London to Darwin in 29 days; 10 years
since Parer and Mclntosh bumped over the
same route in an old ’bus that finished a
mass of patches; two years since Hinkler’s
single-handed flight from London to Sydney
in 16 days; just on a year since Kingsford
Smith and his mates cut the time down to
under 13 days. For sheer daring, skill and
endurance the achievement of the 22-year-old
Yorkshire girl, Amy Johnson, is inferior to
none of these great feats. Her Gipsy Moth
is of a type as difficult for one person to
manage as Hinkler’s specially-adapted Avro ;
and until her forced landing in Burma she
had beaten his time by two days. The signi-
ficance of her exploit, however, lies not so
much in her exceptional grit as .in the fact
that it has been possible. When a girl can
fly an inexpensive machine half-way round
the earth in a fortnight, the days of slow
and costly world travel are numbered.
“Dealer” : Norman Lindsay has an amus-
ing article in a Sydney weekly scarifying
the convention-ridden beings who object to
‘ Rcdheap” on moral grounds. I agree with
all of it except his imaginary picture of the
furniture of his victims. He envisages a
room containing “a still-life of plaster of
Paris fruit, vases, chairs penitentially
stuffed,” and so on. In fact, a mid-Victorian
room. But mid-Victorian relics, and parti-
cularly imitation fruit under glass domes,
vases and damnably uncomfortable papier-
mache and mahogany chairs, are sought after
by the ultra-advanced nowadays, and they
fetch big prices in the curio-shops in conse-
quence. The modern Philistine favors bogus
“period” stuff, which is made by the ton in
WENT WRONG SOMEWHERE.
“Good Heavens, John! What’s happened?”
“Remember, before we were married, we said that when we couldn’t make ends meet
we’d live on love?”
“Yes, dear, yes!”
“Well, I tried to square the account with the dressmaker!”
every Australian city. The poorer slaves to
custom stock their homes with so-called
“Jacobean” (half the cheap flats in Darling-
hurst and St. Kilda contain ponderous black
nightmares with corkscrew limbs), while the
wealthier ones buy Sheraton and iChippen-
dale made by Chows; and refectory-tables of
from 4 to 8 monk-power. In one respect
the artist-novelist is right, though. The homes
of the holy are still ugly and uncomfortable.
:J; * * *
“M.G.S.”: A Swede who piloted a sail-
ing craft I hired for a yachting cruise in
the Bohuslaan lived on an even more
restricted diet than the Katoomba housemaid
who thrives on bread and cheese (B.
30/4/’3O). He subsisted on black coffee,
pickled onions and potatoes, and assured me
that he never varied the menu. He was a
six-footer, and had the torso of a gladiator.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: The up-country Boer still
retains many of his old superstitions. Natal
was treated to an illustration of this when
an Indian bearing the historic title of Peter
Jackson was charged with some 25 offences,
ranging from rape to false pretences. The
pious Hindu specialised in the exorcism of
evil spirits, and the curing of disease by
remedies which had to be prepared in the
presence of the patient, invariably a white
female. The number of white women who
testified in camera has staggered Natal,
though there was one humorous touch. A
confiding husband gave Peter £l5 to cure
his wife’s bad temper, only to find that the
lady had become even more irascible as a
result of the treatment.
He ❖ ❖ H:
“Starboard Quarter”: Tell “Mark V.” and
“Marker” (B. 7/5/’3O) that Britain had a
bigger-than-Bertlia gun. It was fired from
England across the Channel into the lines. Its
range was 87 miles, and the shell reached a
height of seven miles from the ground. The
gun was under the care of Lieut.-Commander
Lionel Robinson, R.N., a na<tive of Melbourne,
“Robbo” was gunnery officer of the first naval
armored trains into Belgium, and later of
11.M.5. Furious.
H: * $ $
“Hoopdriver” : A young Perth motorist who
ran his car into another with fatal conse-
quences for its occupant, a doctor, has been
convicted of manslaughter and sentenced to
a year’s imprisonment. He was racing with
another reckless driver when the smash
occurred, and though many witnesses to char-
acter were called and an impassioned appeal
was made for leniency, ’Sonah reckoned he
would be doing less than his duty if he failed
to pass a-n “exemplary” sentence. There
is a worse type of offender than the merely
reckless or negligent one, and that is the hit-
and-run ruffian, who generally manages to
get clean away. “An “exemplary” sentence
for one of this class would have to be a
good deal more than 12 months.
He ❖ *
‘iSol M.”: An air expedition is about to
leave for the Dead Heart of Australia under
the .management and at the cost of Donald
Mack-ay, squatter, of N.S.W. Mackay is a
fairly hardened explorer, having left his
sheep on various occasions while he went
wandering in Australia, New Guinea and the
Pacific generally. This time he aims at the
land of the permanent old-man drought,
beyond the Lutheran missionaries at Her-
mansburg, where there are places which the
white man is supposed to have never visited,
of if he did visit them he is still there. A
year or so ago an air explorer did some work
over and around Lake Eyre, and reported
that when flying low lie stirred up a dust in
the middle of that inland sea, also that he
afterwards motored and walked on its sur-
face. A region north of Lake Eyre is de-
scribed as practically impassable even for the
camel except in one direction, for it is is
ribbed east and west by high, steep sandhills
a few hundred yards apart. The north- or
south-bound “oont,” even when flying light,
perishes of weariness when climbing up the
first of these shifty and granulous razorbacks,
and breaks his neck through falling off the
second. His mortal remains lie in rows at
the bottoms
“Ian”: Treasure supposed to have been
hidden on Queenscliff foreshore by a mys-
terious fugitive from a South American re-
public has been sought for 19 years by two
Victorians, James Hillard and R. J. Wallis.
Hillard, a Camberwell gardener, induced the
then Treasurer, Watt, in 1912 to give him
the right to search, undertaking that the
State should get 10 per cent, of the swag,
if found. When Hillard died, Wallis, who
was formerly an insurance inspector, got
Lands Department authority, renewed annu-
ally, to continue the quest. The present site
of the exploration—or, as the local borough
council calls it, “mining operation”—is near
the State school.
* * * *
“Nakhoda” : If the British shipped Gandhi
away to another corner' of the Empire it
would be doing India a useful service. I
have run across such political exiles in many
places. In Penang I met the ex-sultan of
an African principality, who, though a thorn
in the side of Anglo-Saxon authority in his
homeland, had settled down to a life of
dignified retirement. I often, saw him plac-
ing portions of his handsome pension in the
hands of Australian bookmakers. His
majesty expressed intense relief at being no
longer the cat’s-paw of a rebellious opposition.
>;: * *
“Clarence Cafeteria”: About the only im-
portant result of the Prohibition referendum
in Vic., except for the waste of public money,
was the splitting of the Housewives’ Associa-
tion. It began when Mrs. Percy Russell, the
president, started expressing moderate views
on the subject of. the hour. This was unbear-
able to the wowser section of the organisa-
tion, and Mrs. Russell was ordered to remain
silent or resign office. She continued to
assert her independence, and when an
attempt was made to expel her she ruled
the meeting out of order. Another meeting
resulted in free fights, excited partisans chas-
ing each other over the metropolis in taxis.
Each side charged the other with throwing in
reinforcements in the shape of professional
female thugs instructed to bludgeon the
enemy, and other devices used by the coarser
sex in such situations were employed,'includ-
ing picketing and lockouts. Finally, Mrs.
Russell departed for Europe still calling her-
self president. Mr. Russell now declares
himself sick of the whole business and pro-
foundly disillusioned as to the alleged
pacifism of women.
$ * * *
“Ostrich”: The young ’uns who grow up
on orchards are a sturdy lot. The two sons
of my neighbor have to be up at five on
Friday mornings to pack their load for the
Melbourne market. They arrive in the
market about 10 p.m. and chat and smoke
with their cobbers for two or three hours,
when they turn in. About three they stroll
off to one of the all-night cookshops and
warm themselves with coffee and saveloys.
After selling their load and doing the family
shopping, they drive back to the farm, and
if there is time do a bit of harrowing-
before dinner. On Saturday afternoon comes'
football, from which they dash off to milk;
and then there is the weekly dance. They
finally get to bed at two o’clock_on Sunday
morning, having had about 45 hours of
almost continuous exertion. And that happens
week after week, month after month.
THE CONSIDERATE HUSBAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“He was a good husband. He was always bring-
ing home flowers and oysters for his wife.”
—Witness in Sydney divorce case.
He played the game. Full many a dainty
daughter
Of figleaf-garbed and pippin-nibbling Eve
Would have been grateful for the gifts he
brought her,
Aye, well content such tokens to receive.
How many men take toll of land and water
So rare a combination to achieve
Of tender sentiment and toothsome scran
And lay it at the feet of Flo or Fan?
Granted that blooms convey in floral lingo
Sweet subtleties beyond the tongue or pen,
Are there not shades of meaning, too, by
jingo!
Within a well-assorted couple’s ken
In esculents consumed with stout or stingo,
Seasoned with vinegar and red cayenne?
To her who knows the code mayn’t oysters
say
As much as the most delicate bouquet?
He emphasised his conjugal affections
With offerings fair to see and fine to
smell.
His consort’s gastronomic predilections
One finds he paid attention to, as well.
In bottles deftly packed—there’d be objec-
tions v
To toting bivalves homeward in the shell—
Oped by some Greek’s accommodating knife
He bore plump molluscs to his waiting wife.
With violets he came, and radiant roses—
What pleasant memories such tributes
stir!
And since there’s little nutriment in posies
(Save for aesthetic souls) he carried hej
The daintiest spoil the Hawkesbury discloses,
The primest product of the Bellinger.
Oysters and flowers—succulent and sweet.
A double, surely, difficult to beat!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Mei”: The age-old belief in charms is
by no means extinct. I was watching some
budding Bradmans at play in our Darling
Downs township when one of them trod on
an upturned nail in a board. The rest
crowded up to inspect the injury, and then
abruptly scattered, leaving the casualty
solemnly nursing his foot. Two disappeared
into a hotel yard; two more scaled the
grocer’s back fence, and the rest vanished in
sundry directions. They presently returned,
each group bearing a potato. With due
gravity they affixed a spud to the nail that
had caused the trouble; then they carried
the board to the fence and laid it carefully
alongside. Upon inquiring, I was told that
this ensured the safe and speedy healing
of the wound. “It’s a dead cert.,” my youth-
ful informant said; .“an’ d’yer want t’ know
how to get rid o’ warts ? Rub ’em with a
piece of meat—you gotter pinch it—an’ bury
the meat w’en no one’s lookin’. Be the time
it’s rotten the warts’ll be gorn.”
:!= * *
“Hiram Hairspring”: There are two sides
to the feminine sport of man-hunting; the
chase of the man when he is still unattached,
or attached to someone else, and the pur-
suit of him when he has married and is try-
ing to escape. In N. S. Wales the pastime
can be played under Children’s Court
(Maintenance Branch) rules, w T ith police-
men joining in, but as the police are some-
times bored to tears the player often substi-
tutes friends. Coursing men tell you the
hare really enjoys having the hounds after
it. Hcnpeck feels like that when he tells'
his pals in a friendly pub how he dodged the
wife and two policemen; but his enjoyment
ends when his wife appears at one door
and her friend Mrs. Rollingpin at another,
while Mrs. Flatiron watches the by-street
exit. Even coursing men would regard this
as unsportsmanlike; but to women the game
is as fascinating as golf. The lady who has
once fallen to its lure is never satisfied
unless she is chasing some husband to his
lair —-her own husband for preference.
H- H* Hi Hi
“Hamer”: The dissatisfied diner in the
Dago restaurant took his maltreated steak to
the cash-desk and laid it and his complaint
before the proprietor. The cook, warned
of what was happening by a waiter, came
to the door of "his kitchen, whereupon the
proprietor bellowed in his direction a low
opinion of him as "a cook, adding a libellous
account of his family history. The cook
POST-MORTEM.
MISS LAMB : “Leo, why didn’t you return my lead? Haven’t you an atom of brains?”
replied with some heated observations about
the boss as a robber of his customers, and the
descendant of a long line of cut-throats,
thieves and loose women. The customers
grinned as the long-range combatants con-
tinued to slangwhang one another in a mix-
ture of wild Greek and bad English; but
matters became less pleasant for them when
the cook, seizing a dish of uncooked fish,
began to use it as ammunition, most of which
went wide. The proprietor returned the fire
with a plateful of fried flathead, his aim
being ever more appalling than his adver-
sary’s. The customers rushed out, without
waiting to pay, and police rushed in. Fines
all round (a couple of waiters and the’
boss’s brother had become involved) finished
the comedy.
* * * *
“Kerys” : Maoriland has furnished at least
one queer case of resurrection. An important
citizen of Christchurch waved good-bye
to his wife as she drove out in the
family carriage for an afternoon’s shopping,
and was not heard of again. All efforts to
trace him failed, and after a long interval
the family wound up his business alfairs
‘and looked round for other means of sup-
port. Thirty years later a firm of solicitors
in a N.S.W. inland town sent a brief inti-
mation to a son settled in Wellington (M.L.)
that his father was about to return. This
LUCKY PARIS!
HETTY (who has landed her young man and is going travelling) : “In Paris, they say, you
go to bed with daybreak.”
BETTY (who somehow can’t bring hers to the point): “Well, that’s better than going to
bed with heartbreak.”
the old gentleman duly did. Though dis-
creetly questioned by his astounded children
and grandchildren, he never by word or sign
gave any indication of what he had been
doing in the interim. It was only after his
death that the family learned that he had
been the hero of two mysterious disappear-
ances. In addition to the old Maoriland
papers reporting his sudden withdrawal from
local society they found among his belonging's
copies of an Australian country journal
lamenting the unaccountable departure of
one of the township’s most popular business
men.
“Bad Australian”: “Centurion’s” account
of the vagaries of the old-time revolver
known as the “pepper-box” (B. 7/5/’3O) does
not accord with my experience of the
weapon. I used a pepper-hox for years, and
I never knew more than one charge to
explode with one pull on the trigger, nor do
I see how such a thing could happen with
a properly-adjusted weapon. Each barrel
of the pepper-box had a nipple screwed into
the breech in- line with the barrel in the
same way as the Colt “navy” revolver, which
succeeded it; in both there was a very con-
siderable clearance between the nipples.
When the barrels or chambers were loaded,
a tight-fitting percussion-cap was placed on
the nipple, and the gun was ready for action.
The barrels of the pepper-box were brazed
together, and the job of separating them wa.s
one for a gunsmith with time to spare. In
any case, it would have been plain foolish-
ness to replace certain parts with others
that would of necessity behave in the same
unreliable manner,
“Oxmead”: It is hardly correct to say,
as “Whitehall” does, that “Salisbury waited
for four years after the death of Tennyson
before he tossed the job to Alfred Austin”
(B. 30/4/’3O) ; for the Conservative leader
wasn’t in office for three of those years.
Tennyson died in 1892, two months after the
defeat of the Salisbury Administration. The
Liberals returned to pow*er in August of the
same year and stayed in until 1895. Salis-
bury, Prime Minister again, gave Austin the
post as soon as he decently could, in Decem-
ber, 1895. It was Gladstone and his suc-
cessor Rosebery who refused to appoint a
Laureate. One of their reasons was sup-
posed to bo that Swinburne, who was head
and shoulders above any other bard of the
period, wouldn’t have been acceptable to the
Queen because of his early republicanism.
Anyhow, the office had been left vacant for
so long that it was a surprise to most people
when Salisbury revived it.
“Centurion”: However silent it may be in
other respects, the Royal Navy is apt to
wax vociferous on the subject of dress regs.
and offences against them. There has been a
great to-do over the forgetfulness of a pay-
master rear-admiral who forgot to the
white piping that marks the “pay” branch, of
the service inserted in
his shoulder straps. The
calamity has actually been
made the subject of a Fleet
Order. It recalls the story
of the Australian birdman
who was temporarily at-
tached to the R.N. unit dur-
ing the invasion of Palestine.
Having a craze for jewellery,
the lad turned up with
several flashing rings on and a gold watch
chain showing conspicuously. Tlie admiral
looked at him in stupefaction, and then asked
what the blazes he meant by reporting impro-
perly dressed. “I don’t understand, sir,”
faltered the glittering one. “You don’t under-
stand!” yelped the old gentleman. “Devil
dammit, sir, where are your sulphurous ear-
rings?”
* :!: * sis
“Oxmead” : The N.S.W. Court of Criminal
Appeal has rapped a Judge over the knuckles
by deciding that, admirable
as his motives may have
been, he acted illegally in
ordering the public out of
court when a criminal case
was being heard. A new trial
was granted. I wonder how
the law stands with regard
to lower courts. A quarter
of a century ago I was re-
porting the preliminary hear-
ing of a manslaughter charge
in a Westralian town. The
brace of Great Unpaid on
the Bench decided (like the
N.S.W. Judge) that too
many people were present out
of morbid curiosity and had
the court cleared. I sought'
to assert the rights of the
Press by remaining. The
Shallows, after consultation,
announced that I was fined
1.0 shillings for contempt. On
my flat refusal to pay they
had a further consultation
and directed that I should
be imprisoned until the rising
of the Court. The Court
rose half an hour later, while
I was writing up my copy
in an adjacent room and the
custody of a grinning con-
stable, so no great hardship
was inflicted. I threatened
an action for false imprison-
ment, but decided it wasn’t worth the bother.
❖ Jji *
“Jungor”: A lot was said at the Mun-
gana (Q.) iiiquiry about a present of mining
scrip to -a warden’s wife. A similar happen-
ing provided the Westralian law courts with
some work 27 years ago. The official concerned
frankly admitted that his wife had received
some shares as a free gift from a friend
of the family. Their value was very little,
but the fact that the donor was a mining
man who had occasional business in the
Warden’s Court caused the Government to
dispense with that official’s services. The
matter might have ended there had not the
Mines Minister of the period opened liis
mouth too widely on the subject outside
of Parliament. This provided the ex-warden
with material for an action for defamation,
and a sympathetic jury awarded him thump-
ing damages. They were so heavy, in fact,
that another Court subsequently reduced
them, but they remained substantial. And
the public had to pay them, and all costs
as we 1 !.
* * *
“Si Ann”: I have never seen more ram-
shackle cars or worse mechanics anywhere
in the world than in Singapore, but it beat
its own record when the police seized a
Lizzie which had knocked down and killed
a Chinese. The inspector found that with
all brakes hard on he was able to turn the
jacked-up wheels with his finger. Further
inquiry disclosed that the brakes had no
linings left, and the native driver admitted
that this had happened over 1000 miles ago;
since when he had trusted to his steering or
in an emergency going into reverse.
*‘* * *
“Shep”: These days legitimate 'office
callers are outnumbered by hawkers and the
like. One day’s tally in our place included
two sellers of “art union” tickets, three girls
rattling collection-boxes, a Salvarmy man,
four Benevolent Society ladies and ump-
teen vendors of soap, writing-pads, collar
studs and laces—“two pair for a thrum.
There was also a toddler not big
enough to look over the counter, who
thrust up a note alleging that Ma couldn’t
leave home and had to send her little daughter
to ask for what help she could get from good,
kind. Christian people. We went looking
for Ma, and located her squatting on the
front doorstep with a lady who had the hic-
cups. The breeziest of the lot wafted an odor
of beer into the office, made elegant cour-
tesies to the typists, and begged his fare
to Bourke. A refusal didn’t put him out.
“Well, givtfus a zack towards it, mate,” he
said; “I’ll go that far on the railway and
walk the other five ’undred miles.” He got
his sixpence.
* * * *
“X.S.”: A sidelight on the Volstead Act
was provided by the Melbourne Motor Show.
Many of the new models have a “secret”
locker for the flask.
■H * *
“Bronchiectasis”: “General Prac.” (B.
7/5/’3O) is not so unfortunate in having
a silent ’phone. In the Sydney suburbs calls
are coming in, but fees are not. The Stork
is still busy, as the vital statistics show, but
five of his assistants have told me that they
haven’t been paid for more than 12 of their
last 40 confinements. In my suburb all the
doctors employ one collector of long-overdue
accounts, giving him 25 p.c. He turned up
last week with 145., the fruits of a six-
weeks’ walking tour of the place. I suspect
that Maequarie-street is quiet because the
favorite text on waiting-room walls is:
“Please ask thq, secretary for a receipt.”
■V- =!•- *
“Centurion”: The trouble in India- is
responsible for confusion elsewhere. For
example, the journal that I read on the ferry-
boat stresses the difficulty of dealing with
miscellaneous “races” -of India —“the
Hindus, Brahmins, Moslems, Sikhs, Patlians
a*nd Buddhists.” The only “race” involved
in that category is the Patlnin, the tribes-
man of the North-west Frontier, who is to
all intents and purposes one with the Afghan.
Hinduism is a religion professed by many
Indian races, and the Brahmin is the coping-
stone of that tangled edifice. The Moslem
is » Mohammedan, and nothing else, whatever
his race—the Path an, for instance, is an
insistent Moslem. Several races are joined
in the Sikh religious confederation, while
Buddhism is the creed of numerous divergent
breeds, from the Himalayas to Cape-Comorin.
“F.S.” : Most Australian artists who have
worked in Paris can supply personal reminis-
cences • concerning the great Faked Old
Master industry. Justus Jorgensen refused
an offer of 30 guineas a week to remain in
Europe and copy Italian, Flemish and
French masters. Another well-known Aus-
tralian painter in his youth did a “Souvenir
of Van Dyke” which was actually a portrait
of himself in the costume of the period;
the dealer who bought it put it into Ameri-
THIS CURSED AGE OF MECHANICS.
FLAPPER FLEA : “Look out, Ma; here comes the all-day
sucker.”
can circulation. lie also executed com-
missions for antique dealers . which took
the form of correcting the anatomy and
improving the tone of tenth-rate painters of
earlier centuries. These pictures were later
sold as the work of great men. The destiny of
most of these springes for woodcocks is the
Riviera in the summer when American mil-
lionaires are plentiful. Of late Titians have
been greatly in demand, so the forging fac-
tories have been turning to Titian. It is
conservatively estimated that there are
20,000 Corots in the U.S.A.
* * * *
“Chancery Lane”: An Italian witness
giving evidence at the Melbourne Morgue
said he had seen the defunct “gettin’ troo
a fence vit pins in it.” A constable came
to the coroner’s assistance by explaining
that the witness was referring to a barb-
wire fence.
* * * *
“It. Volt”: The announcement that the
reminiscences of Von Mtigge or Muecke, the
lieutenant who led the landing-party which
escaped from the Emden at Cocos back to
Arabia and thence to Germany, are being
published in English for the first time is a
bit belated. An American edition was
printed before the Armistice, and a copy was
in the Melbourne Public Library until some-
body lifted it. Von Miigge’s story was sub-
stantially accurate, though infected with
Prussian vainglory. One curious statement
was that Von Muller was materially assisted
in tracking down Allied shipping by the
information supplied him by captured British
masters. The explanation he gave for this
apparently incredible disloyalty was +he
jealousy of the Britishers for the captains
of vessels belonging to rival companies. A
more feasible reason was the wireless instruc
.tions sent out by the Indian authorities to
shipping. These messages for a long time
were idiotically couched, in plain language,
and by their means the Emden was even able
to place the positions of its naval pursuers.
BALLADE OF A BAD SITTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hard at a point in space I stare,
Seated upon a model’s throne,
My face of all expression bare,
Intelligence to limbo flown.
That vacant gaze can’t be my own,
’Tis void of feeling’s slightest trace;
As cold as marble, stiff as bone,
I focus on a point in space.
“Relax,” the artist cries. “Ah, there!”
With something like a sigh or groan,
I slump all shapeless in the chair
! Like .palsied man or ancient crone.
There’s satire in the artist’s tone:
“Oh, not like that! I meant your face !”
I’m rigid now, the way re-sliown,
And staring at a point in space.
Things reach allotted end, howe’er
They’re shaped, to joy or sorrow grown,
For good or ill, if foul or fair.
“You say that’s me?” I feebly moan.
“It's very like,” I hear him drone.
“Then what am I like in that case?”
His answer to the void is thrown,
I'm staring at that point in space.
Envoy.
You limners all, in paint or stone,
Hell holds a fate for all your race:
To sit eternally, alone,
And staring at a point in space.
S.A.
BILL O'C .


SHADW SHOWS.
The
STATE
THEATRES
SYONEY AND MELBOURNE
“Men Without Women” (Fox Movietone),
at Sydney Regent, is such a fine spectacle
that the plot, which is absurd, doesn’t matter.
Put 14 competent actors in the simulacrum
of a rammed submarine on an ocean bed, with
the air failing and little hope of rescue, and
they can be left with confidence to create
their own drama. Chief Torpedoman Burke,
of the U.S. Navy, is supposed to have com-
manded “the destroyer” (actually it was a
cruiser) which was sunk with Kitchener
aboard during the war. Shame and remorse
are his familiars. When he learns that Com-
mander Weymouth, R.N., is one of the rescue
party which has arrived in response to the
signalling of the submarine oscillator he
elects to die rather than face his old ship-
mate. In this way Ensign Price, who is
nominally in charge, escapes. When the
fouled torpedo-nets have been cleared by
divers the prisoners are shot to the surface—
all but Burke, who knocks his superior un-
conscious, shoots him up to life and love,
and passes out.
Kenneth Mac Kenna is inspiring as the
born leader who takes charge over the head
of the inexperienced ensign, right up to the
moment when, with death gripping him, he
delivers a ranting speech about his war-time
mishap. The emotional remarks of the
R.N. Commander on the same subject in a
crowded Shanghai bar are equally hard to
bear. The reputation of the Silent Service
was not built up on such lines. But the
work of the subsidiaries is beyond praise, and
the submarine shots are as realistic as
anything that has been seen in Australia.
* * *
If British and Dominion Films keep any-
where near the standard of “Rookery Nook,”
now at Alelbourne Athenaeum, they should
revolutionise the habits of Australian
movie audiences. Ben Travers is Rabelaisian'
in the gusto and plenitude of his comedy,
though his method is light and superficial.
He caps one inconsequential jest with
another and, the talkie machine not being sus-
ceptible to the moods of an audience, the
second jest is usually swamped in the pro-
longed appreciation of the first one.
The talkie version of “Rookery Nook” is
actually more effective than the stage ver-
sion, and that was very admirably done
in Australia a few years ago. On that occa-
sion Hastings Lynn took the part of the
just-married man who, owing to a set of
more or less plausible circumstances, is
obliged to spend the night in a lonely coun-
try house with a stray damsel clad in
pyjamas. Ralph Lynn appears in the role
in the talkie production, and his method
is exactly similar. Tom Walls is his bache-
Winifred Shotter in
“Rookery Nook.”
lor mento r.
The acting of
all hands is ex-
cellent. Their
style is en-
tirely indigene-
ous. II 011 y-
wood doesn’t
exist for them,
with the pos-
sible exception
o f Winifred
Shotter, the
leading lady.
In her sleep-
ing suit she
is somewhat
suggestive
of the conven-
tional screen
doll, with her
face expressive
of nothing in
particular ex-
cept a mental
vacuum. The
half - dozen
people in the
background give excellent character studies,
especially Mary Brough as the prying house-
keeper.
# * *
“Sunny Side Up” (Fox Movietone),
at Sydney Plaza, is a musical comedy
(late nineteenth century model). The
first to appear of a host of old friends
is Molly Carr, shop-girl. She lives in a
New York slum with her sprightly friend
Bill Nicliolls, and they are visited by a couple
of good-hearted grotesques—Eddy, a necktie
seller, with ambitions as a song-writer and
a catch-gag on the subject, and Eric, a Swed-
ish grocer. Molly is heart-whole—just
a gay, lovable little goil with a permanent
smile, a tumbled mass of curls and a talent
for song-and-
dance. It is
the Fourth of
.T u 1 y, and
Molly and her
neighbors ai;e
celebrating it
in the street
in a manner
c h aracteristic
of stage demo-
cracy outside
crook dramas.
Smiling child-
ren every-
where. Smil-
ing policemen
playing with
them. Smiling
mothers and
fathers. N o
drunks. N o
fights. Not a
gunman in
.sigh t. And,
flitting through
the idyllic
scene like an
JANET GAYNOR
in “Sunny Side Up.”
advt. for somebody’s tooth-paste, idolised by
the youngsters, revered by their parents—
Molly.
Away in fashionable Southampton the
Four Hundred are celebrating the national
festival on other lines. Here we find un-
limited champagne, cocktails, backbiters, a
faithless girl, a gigolo who has designs on
her, no innocent children and a conspicuous
lack of the finer human feelings. The one
pleasing prospect in a sordid landscape is
Jack Cromwell. This admirable young man
—a singer and piano-player, one who loves
his mother, a toothy smiler, democratic as
a Parliamentary candidate, and badly in need
of a hair-cut—is the obvious complement of
Molly. They meet when, disgusted by the
loose behavior of his fiancee with the gigolo,
Jack leaps, into his car and drives madly, aim-
lessly into the unknown to escape from it all.
Tragic complications follow in which
Molly’s heart is nearly broken. There is
actually a lacerating stage at which Jack’s
mother (a good woman at heart, despite her
money, who eventually repents bitterly of
her error) is persuaded by the tongue of
malicious rumor that Molly is “bad.” The
pity of it! And then the sun breaks through
the clouds, warming with its gracious rays—
in short, Jack drops the other girl and gets
engaged to Molly.
Except for some rather half-hearted nudity
(and notably Molly’s appearance in her
cami-knickers) the show might be put on at
the break-up of a Methodist Ladies’ College,
and no moral damage done. Janet Gaynor,
who has been seen in Sydney in “Seventh
Heaven” and other saccharine productions,
plays Molly. She exhibits a faultless set
of teeth throughout the first half of her inter-
pretation, weeps persistently through the
second half, and over-acts all the time.
Charles Farrell sings expressively but with
no more voice than Miss Gaynor. The
comedy, which derives from “The Belle of
New York,” is sound, and El Brendel is
original as well as funny as the Swede Eric.
* ¥ *
Paramount released two short-run all-
talkies in Sydney last week. “Light of the
Western Stars,” at the State, is a Zane Grey.
Its only unexpected feature is Australia’s
old friend Harry Green as a highly impro-
bable cowboy-peddler. The action is held
up periodically to allow Harry to be comic
on Yiddish lines, which is a pity, since, in
this class of production, lightning move-
ment is everything. The scenic effects are
not so impressive as in previous Westerns,
but there is a rather more generous offering
of sentiment, horseflesh and homicide.
Richard Arlen is Dick Bailey, the hard-
riding, straight-shooting lad who foils the
infamous Stack in his efforts to pinch the
ranch,of Ruth Hammond (Mary Brian).
“Men Are Like That,” at the Capitol, is
an astonishingly sincere domestic comedy.
If only the talkie mex-chants would purvey
more slices of American life like it! Aubrey
Piper, a bounding, loquacious incompetent,
marries sweet little Amy Fisher (Doris Hill)
iu face of the furious opposition of her
family. He proceeds from one ruinous error
to another, always vociferously satisfied that
others are to blame for his mistakes. His
young brother-in-law has sold an invention
for 50,000 dollars. The family, impover-
ished by Aubrey’s follies and the sudden
death of Pa Fisher, are wildly delighted.
Aubrey decides to do better for the boy,
and at the same time prove that he is
worthy of Amy. He blows in on the patent-
buyers with a roaring demand for 100,000
dollai's, plus royalties; otherwise, as head
of the family, he will make other arrange-
ments. He is kicked out with the intimation
that the whole deal is off. For the first
time in his noisy, futile career he is humbled.
He trails wretchedly home to make a clean
breast of his folly. At that moment a note
arrives. His bluff has come off; the patent-
buyers have accepted his terms.
Hal Skelly makes a lovable ass of Aubrey,
but the best performance of a splendidly-cast
show is given by Clara Blandwick as Ma
Fisher, who is equally human and engaging
while expressing scorn of her son-in-law,
sympathy with her daughter, or grief at
her husband’s death.
THE UNSPEAKABLES.
“The N. S. Wales A.L.P. is collecting the damages and costs in the Bailey-Willis libel action by means of a levy on branches and trade-unions.... The gen. sec.
ot the Miners Federation said that Queensland miners had refused to pay more than 5 per cent, of their wages, contending that the}' could not live on what remained
alter the 12 ½ per cent, levy had been deducted, and summonses had had to be issued.”
LABOR BOSS: “Smith objects to giving us an eighth of his wages, and Brown hasn’t paid the libel-action levy. Got the summonses, comrade?”
CONSTABLE (grinning): “You called me a murdering minion of capital the other day.”
LABOR BOSS: “Did I? But Smith and Brown are SCABS.”


7hp cenfre of Queen s /an c/s
d/sLngu/sheci Socio/ Life.
prfel
RDTCP
BRISBANE
k
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central SISO—IO Lines.
FAIRFAX AND ROBERTS DIAMOND RINGS
Perfect in quality—Distinctive in design.
Good, sound value.
THE RINGS ILLUSTRATED ARE PRICED AT £2O EACH.
:
','WSW
'
SI
Fairfax and Roberts. Ltd.,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
23-25 Hunter Street.
Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner a
la carte from 1/6. Inclusive tariff from 13/6
per day, or £4/4/- weekly. Special quotations for
sporting bodies, etc. Situated right opposite Spencer
Street Station; no taxi fares; railway porter carries
baggage across if necessary. Please write for
detailed tariff card. Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is
sufficient address.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Sydney’s most limelit parson, Thomas E.
Ruth, is off for a lengthy.lioliday after 16 years
of strenuous work, first at the Collins-street
Baptist,Church, Melbourne, and then at the
Pitt-street Congregational. The popular
preacher was born in Devonshire 54 yean?
ago. One of his hobbies is sun-baking
in his well-screened Manly garden, clad only
in shorts. But even then his pen is generally
busy with newspaper articles.
T. P. Dunhill, appointed honorary saw-
bones to the King, is a Victorian and a pro-
duct of Melbourne University. His writings
on goitre command world-wide attention, and
his work in Rouen Hospital during the
war earned him mention in despatches and
a C.M.G. For some years he has been one
of London’s leading surgeons.
MACPHERSON
ROBERTSON.
Another gift of
£6OOO from Mac-
pherson Robertson,
of chocolate fame,
settled the question
as to whether the
Discovery will go
to the Antarctic
again next year.
The last expedition,
whic h obtained
valuable data and
commercial infor-
mation with regard
to whales, though
it devoted only one-
tentli of its time to
the subject, cost
£lB,OOO, and ex-
pert members re-
gard it as the most
economical polar
exploration ever
undertaken for the
results achieved.
A remarkably ver-
satile gentleman is
W. H. Whiddon,
late N.S.W. Taxa-
tion Commissioner,
who has just been
elected chairman cf
Sydney Tattersall’s
Club. Whiddon was
clerk, traveller and
publican before he
joined the civil service as a “temporary”;
he acquitted himself so well that he gained
a permanent post. As a sideline he was
an amateur musical producer of such quality
that the J. C. Williamson firm more than
once offered him a job.
F. E. Cornish, dead in Adelaide at 67, had
been in the softgoods firm of Charles Birks
from boyhood, and ended as general man-
ager and a director .of the co. it grew into.
Outside business life he had two main in-
terests ; he held at some time almost every
local office in the Congregational church and
in Freemasonry.
“Uramao” : Maoriland furnished not only
the first V.C. airman in Rhodes-Moorhouse
(B. 23/4/’3O), but the first man to bring
down a German Zeppelin in Major Brandon,
D. 5.0., M.C. It. was he who on April 30'
1916, from a height of 9000 ft. dropped bombs
on Zeppelin Ll 5 and tumbled it into the
Thames estuary.
Frank Taylor, F.E.S., appointed entomo-
logist to the recently-opened School of Tropi-
cal Medicine. Sydney University, is a
Lakemba (N.S.W.) lad who learnt‘the rudi-
ments of his trade in the forests of that Syd-
ney outer suburb, which of recent years has
held the brieks-and-mortar record. Of the
named mosquitoes several are trade-marked
“Taylori.” His big jobs include surveys of
the insect life of Torres Strait and of the
Murray River from Albury to the mouth, and
an investigation into the blowfly pest in
Queensland.
Donald Mackay,
who is about to
lead an expedi-
tion of all the
talents into Cen-
tral Australia, is
a pastoralist
whose hobby is
exploration. He
led a party which
penetrated u n-
known country in
New Guinea,
and he has an
acquaintance with
the wilder parts
of Australia such
as few can claim.
The surveyor
will be Co m-
mander H. T.
Bennett, some-
time of the Royal
Navy and later
skipper of the
Australian sur-
vey ship Ger-
anium. H. Kings-
ley Love is one
of Victoria’s lead-
ing wireless ex-
perts and helped
to weld the ama-
teurs into an
auxiliary of the
Air Force. P. C.
Morrison, M.Sc.,
of the “Argus”
staff, will be the
biologist. The
party will go by
air and will be
piloted by Frank
Neale, an ex-
R.A.F. officer,
W. E. ROGERS, the
outspoken S.A. Auditor-
General, who for years
past has been telling
Governments what the
result of their over-
borrowing would be.
who holds a record of 3000 flying hours with-
out an accident.
John Masefield was born in the little mar-
ket town of Ledbury, Herefordshire, where
the family have been established as solicitors
for three generations. John, second son of
Edward Masefield, grew up in the home of
his uncle, William Masefield; there is a
woman in Sydney who can recall him as a
serious-looking little boy of nine, just bereft
of his mother. It was intended that he should
follow the law, but the call of the sea was
too strong. Ledbury is intensely proud
of him; in many of his longer poems there
are descriptions that plainly refer to the
streets and buildings of his home town.
The wreckers are in at “Doonside,” Rich-
mond, Melba’s first home in Melbourne. It
comprises 16 acres and was acquired by the
Dame’s father, David Mitchell, who arrived
in the colony with a pound in his pocket and
converted it into £500,000. The great singer’s
present home, at the moment vacant, is an
Italo-Spanish-mission anachronism oddly
set in the rural surroundings of Lilydale, 40
miles from Melbourne.
The National Research .Council made a
lucky choice when, in co-operation with the
Rockefeller Foundation, it sent _ Donald
Thomson to the extreme north-east tip of the
continent to study the arts, crafts and cus-
toms of Binglii in that region. The spare,
eager young anthropologist put in 18 months
with his wife 200 miles from civilisation, and
a room at Melbourne University is packed
with the loot of the expedition. Eight months
were spent in learning the language and the
rest in gaining the confidence of the tribal
elders. Thompson obtained access to tribal
initiation grounds hitherto unseen by any
white man. He is the son of a distinguished
Victorian musician now in Lbudon.
Fridtjof Nansen, dead in his native Nor-
way at 69, cut a new swath in the story
of ' Arctic exploration—he proved that it
was possible to “live on the country.” Pre-
vious explorers had been practically tied to
their ships. In his first expedition across
Greenland Nansen dispensed with a base of
supplies, and liis party, subsisting on what
they could capture and finally living with
the Eskimos, triumphantly returned to
civilisation. Later he was to leave the Fram
in the ice pack near the Pole, and make his
way south, with only polar bears and seals
to furnish his menu. Australians have some
interest in that same Fram, for it was a
member of the Scandinavian-Scottish-Queens-
land family of Archers who designed that
most successful of all Polar exploration craft.
Rabbi F. L. Cohen, of Sydney, is off on
six months’ furlough. Cohen, who succeeded
the Rev. A. B. Davis 25 years ago, was the
first full-blown rabbi to be introduced to
the Hebrew pastures in this part of the
world. Davis’s specialty was charity..
Whilst not neglecting that side of his work,
Cohen has established a reputation as one of
the best after-dinner speakers in Sydney.
Among the sheaves of congratulations re-
ceived by Sam Mauger, sometime P.M.G. under
Deakin, who at 72 has been celebrating his
golden wedding, many came from those with
whom he was formerly associated in politics.
Before Mauger became a< member of the Vic.
Assembly and then of the Federal Reps., ho
was an apostle of Protection and sec. of the
Anti-Sweating League which helped to estab-
lish State industrial regulation. His liat-shop
annexe at 60 Bourke-street in those fighting
days was the scone of many executive meet-
ings. Sam risked business and popularity
for the two big causes, and also had time
for temperance advocacy. He still serves on
the Metropolitan Fire Brigade Board (he
was once a volunteer fire-fighter) and on
the Indeterminate Sentences Board. His
son Frank is deputy chief of staff of the
“Age.”
W. ,T. Davey, of Petersham (Sydney), who
wa<s 91 this month, came to Australia with
his mother from Norfolk, England, in his
15th year. He is one of the few left who
remember the wreck of the Dunbar; he went
to the scene in a police launch.
Tom Kennedy Irwin, 58 when the war
started, got into khaki with his three sons,
but it took him two years to reach the
front. One of the sons was killed. Irwin, who
was a Boer War veteran, died recently at
Wollongong (N.S.W.), where he had lived
for 50 years.
Angus Macpherson, who died in Roma
(Q.) the other day at 79, was one of the
oldest squatting identities in that district,
once famous for cattle-duffing, and some of his
tales of the industry in its palmy days were
calculated to raise the hair on a saddle. He
left the land for a stock and station agency
in Roma, which he carried on to the end.
Born at Peeclialba station in Victoria, he w r as
an eye-witness, as a boy, of the shooting of
that most infamous of bushrangers, Dan
Morgan.
Killed instantly in a head-on collision of
his car with a tram, Archibald Scott Martin,
manager of the stud-stock department of
Elder, Smith and Co. in Adelaide. He had
been with the co. all his life, working up
from a branch managership at Burra. A
popular sportsman, he was on his way home
from Morpliettville racecourse when the un-
accountable crash occurred. Only 45 at the
end.
T. M. Patterson, who has been chiefly
instrumental in. the recent merging of the
Equitable Trust Go. of New York with the
Chase National Bank of the same place, is
acclaimed by American financial journals as
BILL MISSINGHAM, Country party
M.L.A. for Lismore (N.S.W.). When
Acting-Speaker he stands no nonsense.
one of the foremost spirits in American bank-
ing to-day. One of a well-known .Brisbane
fa«mily, he was educated at Brisbane Grammar
School, and after some years with the Q. N.
Bank went to America early in the century.
For years past he has been the Pacific Coast.
general representative of the Equitable Trust,
after being connected with the Canadian
Bank of Commerce, the Bank of California
and the American Trust Co. of ’Frisco.
Dick Keane, M.11.R. for Bendigo (Vic.),
regards liimhelf as one of the luckiest men
in Australia. When he was in the rail-
ways ho travelled to work for seven years
in the guard’s van from South Yarra to the
city, except on one occasion when he walked
to Prahran- and caught a later train. The
A. H. DAVIS (Steele Rudd), who has
written about the struggling cocky with
so much humor and sympathy. He is
now lecturing in Sydney.
train he was travelling in hit the one he
usually caught and killed three of the nine
men who had daily shared the van with him.
Two months later a horse-lorry hit a cable-
tram in which he was a passenger, the
animal finishing up with its head in Keane's
lap and the shafts over his shoulders.
Recently a motor-car he was touring in lost
a wheel on a steep down-grade and came to
a stop without turning over.
Dead in Melbourne at 75 Frederick
Fenton, long a familiar figure in Elstern-
wick, that pleasant suburb where so many
pastoralists have spent their declining years.
He owned part of Redbank, in the Bendigo
district, a property held by his father in the
days when the old field boomed. The son
was a fine ’cross-country ridel- as a young
man, had been a sharebroker and stock
inspector, and was a keen follower of tin;
turf. Tall and spare, with a drooping
moustache and a beard, he looked rather
like Don Quixote.
Westralia has had some notable goldfields
wardens, among them J. M. Finnerty, E. P.
Dowley and W. A. G. Walter. Dowley came
from Dublin and has lived at Fremantle since
his retirement; Walter returned to his native
Somerset a few years ago; Finnerty, who
died in 1913, was the son of a former
superintendent of police in the colony—
the officer who was sent in pursuit of the
Yankee whaler which got away with six
Fenian convicts in 1876, but failed to in-
duce the skipper to return them, either by
arguments or threats. The . younger Fin-
nerty made a little history himself. It was
he who in 1906 assured Scantlebury, The
Bulletin’s “Wild Cat” man, that the
miners on the Golden Mile were getting
away with about a quarter of a million’s
worth of gold a year. Scantlebury having
broadcasted the assertion, the Westralian
Government appointed the Great Gold Leak
Commission, which failed to find out any-
thing to warrant prosecutions, though a
number of suspects made a hurried depar-
ture.
“Ben”: The Speck has two sisters in Mrs.
Henrietta Kay (96) and Mrs. Maria Steven-
son (95) whose memories go far back in
island history. They were born in Laun-
ceston, daughters of John Mauer; their
parents settled in the dense bush at Wesley
Vale, n.-w. coast, in 1839. Mrs. Kay
recalls how Gregory and Riley, two escaped
convicts who had taken to the bush after
shooting a constable at Elizabeth Town,
stuck up her dad’s place. One of the hands,
who had defied the outlaws, had been tied
Up to a sapling and was about _ to pay the
penalty when 10-year-old Hettie tearfully
begged for his life. To the bushrangers'
credit it was spared. Both the girls, mar-
ried farmers and settled in the Deddington
district, a few miles from Launceston. Mrs.
Stevenson still manages her well-kept farm
at Millwood Plains, and even drives into
market with dairy produce. Mrs. Kay, who
retired from active farming a few years
ago, is the mother of 10 children, nine alive,
and her descendants and those of her sister
run to great-great-grandchildren. Both the
husbands died about 20 years ago.
YESTERDAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You put your heart into the work; you
spared not hand nor brain.
To see it fall, a house of cards, went sore
against the grain.
You didn’t think it worth your while to
turn again and play;
You took your beating very hard —but that
was yesterday.
The girl you wanted turned you down; your
life seemed dull and flat.
You couldn’t understand at all why Fate
should hand you that.
The past was idle, wasted time; the future
drab and grey.
You were a coward to yourself-—but that
was yesterday.
Your dreams were shattered at a blow ; ideals
were worn-out things.
You only felt a sense of loss and disillusion’s
stings.
You railed at luck, as humans will, and
cast all hope away;
You thought yourself a battered wreck —but
that was yesterday.
Ah ! Life’s a strangely complex thing, a
riddle to us all,
But this, at least, it teaches us —that even
as we fall
We’ll /learn to laugh at our defeats; we’ll
learn to turn and say:
“The bravest things of earth are built on
ruins of yesterday.”
VICTORIA.
P. T. F.


BUILDERS OF CIVILIZATION
The forerunner of the automobile.
Built in 1800 by Richard
Trevithick, this machine was the
first self-propelled vehicle that
ever ran along a road.
The rigid iron rims of its wheels
form a strong contrast to the
cushioned comfort afforded by the
modern motor tyre.
ii
m
ill
"W
Si;;*
1
<3*
*
as
m
m
><%&
• s>
ii
« ' :. ;
?mm
'Pg»l
JMSgSm
tpnH
&
r/k-i
r
&
1 i
x-x-
Hi
-•••>-:
/
m
<:•
• • Xx+x-.x-
;>.
Wmm>
I Xv■;••: : v
1
c mxm -:.<--.5g
'<■■ ¥ :
¥
IH
Barnet Glass
Tyres
8.G.17M.30.


sdf
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
. Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD,
J. R. KIRK, Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand).
Total Assets exceed £2,500,000. )
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Asaociation and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sun. assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) iii the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately*
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost evciy contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
ẅ
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOK COMING WEEK.
Heis Majesty's “A Country Girl”
Criterion (com. Saturday) .... “Let Us Be Gay”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royaij “Katinka”
New Comedy “The Prince and the Pauper”
King's “So this is Love”
Hoyt’s' Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
O .
There is probably no sadder sight on this
earth than a poor amateur player standing
in woebegone ingloriousness on the stage,
anxiously raking the blank air for some such
phrase as “My God, I am shot!”
The regular amateur audience is not uncharitable.
The’ property revolver, after two chilling-
clicks, has exploded; the heroine looks tear-
fully on; the hero turns distraught eyes to
the wings. At last it comes in a rush, “My-
Godlamsliot,” so clear in the silence that the
repetition of it sounds like a statement of
inebriate fact. It commends itself to those
ungodly creatures who, in a manner of
speaking, go about the world trying to sur-
prise Mirth in her bath. There is a furtive
Ha-ha ; and when the curtain has gone down
at last, and the applause of the great crowd
of 15 or so has died away, you will overhear
one of the ungodly saying, “Speaking of
amateur theatricals, that reminds me. I
was at a wedding myself last Tuesday.”
But that sour criticism cannot be generally
applied. Not all amateur theatricals are
tragic. It is on the cards that the chicken-
hearted may be harrowed, but it will not be
the torment of emotional conflict that will
trouble them. If, thin-skinned, they squirm
in their seats when Gwendoline Fitzbloomers
or Hawtry Makesem forgets lines it will
be because hero or heroine looks helpless
under the shadow of this Wandering Jew
of a faux pas, and because the voice of the
prompter has an embarrassing way of sound-
ing as if that hidden deity earned his
living selling hot pies. It is a disaster of
intimacy. The Theatre Intimate —a Reper-
torv term for horsebox—in this respect turns
upon itself and bites its own funnybone. The
uncharitable Ha-ha has here a peculiar hor-
ribleness, for, though you are gathered in a
A Russian tragedy in one act.
sort of privacy for the intimate enjoyment
of Art, everything is, in fact, as public as
a village bride’s past.
Repertory players, like the people in the
Bible, are full of excuses; but neither the
producer’s statement of the (alas!) often too
obvious fact that “some of the actors only
came in at the eleventh hour” nor the asser-
tion on the programme that the “proceeds
are for charity” can stifle the deplorable
gurgle of the ungodly. Still, it must be writ-
ten to the credit of the regular audience that
it is not uncharitable. Performances are
generously applauded; it is only crude out-
siders who emit the horrific Ha-ha. They arc
the sort of people who go to a theatre' only
for their own selfish entertainment. They
stray into genuine Art shows out of curiosity,
or by mistake.
Tlie Regular Audience of the Theatre Inti-
mate is part of its woof and weave. A trifle
snobbish, perhaps, in its contempt for the
peqple who stay away, but genuinely addicted
to Art, as it understands the term. And it
is just this intimate relationship which sticks
a hurdle in front of the amateur player and
makes him self-conscious. Gwendoline Fitz-
bloomers and Hawtry Makesem can strive to
masquerade as habitual breakers of the
Seventh Commandment, that mountain-and-
fire-born progenitor of Art. In vain ! The
audience does not see Gwendoline Fitz-
bloomers (victim), Hawtry Makesem (se-
ducer) ; to it they are Gwen (stenographer),
Hawtry (bank clerk). It sees them going to
work every morning, returning every after-
noon, and knows them for what they are—•
jolly decent sorts. It is an impossible handi-
cap for actors to overcome, and they prove
its impossibility by never overcoming it.
This may explain why the life of the
amateur is short. In every production new
stars glow in the 10 x 8 firmament, only to
disappear when the few nights’ season is
over, to be heard of no more, Certainly there
arc a few veterans ; sterling souls who act year
in, year out —for nothing! They are as hardy
as spring poets, and almost as industrious.
All day they slave in banks or shops, and at
night strut their hour, with rehearsals and
all the arduous rest of it. And such is the
enthusiasm of the true-born amateur that if
he were not allowed to play for nothing, he
would dissipate his .earnings in the cold-
blooded bribery of producers.
Nothing can stop these greater spirits.
Once, in a New South Wales country town,
a scribe deliberately slated an amateur show.
Next day the fat was in the fire; also the
scribe’s effigy. The cremation took place in
the park. But, those simple rites over, the
players returned to the job, not eagerly,
not riotously, but simply, solemnly, with
the earnestness of those who follow a sacred
cause. The Turk may call upon Allah, but
the amateurs call upon Art, and the
amateurs’ god is great.
It is, of course, this sacred side of the
cause that keeps them at it. The chief differ-
ence between the amateur and the profes-
sional theatre is that the amateur is expected,
and even considered, to do good, whereas
the other is only expected to do good busi-
ness. The amateur theatre is, in fact, a
shrine. Instead of emitting the barbaric
Ha-ha, bow down and worship, O ye un-
godly! O ye of little faith, come in, come
in! If you decline; if the world says of us
as the drunk in the gods said of the vaude-
ville lady who was wailing that she wanted
someone to love her, “They don’t seem to
be rushing you, do they, dearie?” —well, what
of it? We are the last square, the last
thin red line, the last redoubt of Dramatic
Art. We are not an anachronism; we are
a' living force, in more or less permanent
commission and financial difficulties.
In Sydney there are the Turret, the Play-
box, the Community. The Turret is made out
of the upstairs of a discarded council cham-
bers, several modernist paintings 'and a
unique social air. . It has produced one
Australian play, and done it well. The
Playbox is made out of a basement off
Oxford-street, a concrete floor and a thick
Bohemian atmosphere. Without it Sydney
would certainly not have seen any of Eugene
O’Neill’s plays. ; The Community is made out
of a basement under a church hall in Forbes-
street, a concrete floor and a length of tapa
cloth. It is genuinely trying to encourage
tne Australian playwright. Sydney rather
overlooks them all, which may mean that
Sydney is not interested in x\rt, or, on the
other hand, that it is.
V- * * |
Melbourne, not to be outdone in this pat-
ronage of Art, has its own trenches—or,
rather, pillboxes. Here, every Saturday
night, amusement-seekers converge on the
devoted city. Mr. Clapp discharges a few
score thousand at Flinders-street. Mr.
Cameron deposits another score or so on
the safety zones. Still others roll into the
Modern Babylon in limousines or puff into
it in Fords. A small proportion filters into
the legitimate theatres, and the vast majo-
rity is lost—and damned, according to some
people—inside the portals of the movies.
A tiny minority remains. It has serious
faces. In one glance you can tell what this
tiny minority is. It is composed of patrons
of the intellectual drama.
It has several objectives. One lies near
the top of an 11-storey building erected by
a self-sacrificing gentleman who has devoted
his life to curing the nation’s headaches.
This is the Proscenium Club. But we will
ignore the Proscenium Club. It has been
false to the ideals of the intellectual drama.
It lately staged a mystery play. Instead, we
will follow the supporters of the Little Art
Theatre. They worship in the Queen’s Hall,
Collins-street, where the efforts of the high
priest are entirely admirable. He has never
lowered his standards by providing mere
entertainment. He has never faltered in
his allegiance to Ibsen, Strindberg and
Chekov. Blood has flowed at the Queen’s
Flail; heroines have gurgled their last mes-
sage to the world there; but always in words
of more than two syllables. The horse laugh
of the unthinking has never profaned the
precincts—about the size of a suburban
drawing-room. The players are prepared at
any time to freeze your marrow and con-
geal your glandular secretions, but only with
the. psychological horrors of “The Master
Builder” or the metaphysical terrors ef
“Rutherford and Son.”
A young lady sits down at a piano and
plays Rachmaninoff’s Prelude. A voice can
be heard exhorting the players to have cour-
age. The curtain starts to divide, and, after
the fourth attempt, succeeds in doing so.
The actors look momentarily at the audi-
ence as if surprised to find there is one;
then they look at each other. If their
trousers are tucked into their boots and
their shirts are outside their trousers you
know that they are about to perform a
Russian masterpiece. If the ladies wear
straw hats broadside on and the men arti-
The Horrible Ha-ha.
ficial beards you know that you are in the
presence of one of the great Scandinavian
dramatists.
The players move stiffly as if they were
afraid of bumping against the furniture, but
this is easily explained. They are not meant
to be merely men and women. They arc
symbols. But they are not symbols for such
common stage abstractions as heroism and
black villainy, as one sees in “East Lynne.”
They are symbols of man’s Inner Nature.
The play concerns a contractor with a craze
for building steeples. If you are a patron
of the Intellectual Drama you know what
that means. The Intellectual Drama is no-
thing if not Freudian. The contractor, one
learns, is symbolically in love with the sym-
bol of womanhood in the shape of-an amateur
actress. She wears the regulation broad-
sided hat, but her stockings are of silk
and her skirts are short. Evidently the high
priest is not entirely successful in excluding
feminine vanity from the Intellectual Drama.
The contractor and the lady make love, very
symbolically. But there are difficulties in
the way because he has an unsymbolic wife:
so he builds more steeples. In the final
act, one gathers, he has built the most tre-
mendous steeple of his life, and everybody
is 'afraid that he is going to throw himself
from it. The actors gather in the wings
and describe what is going on outside. The
contractor has climbed to the top of his
steeple and is behaving in an inexplicable
manner. Suddenly there is a piercing shriek,
followed by a sickening thud. The curtain
starts to come together, and, after the third
attempt, succeeds in doing so. There is pro-
longed but decorous- applause, and everybody
goes home feeling spiritually refreshed and
presumably immensely superior to the low-
brow mobs pouring out of the cinemas. A
trouble with these amateurs is that they
don’t go far enough. They ought to an-
nounce their shows somewhat on these lines:
Still another Scandinavian Drama! Depressing
as a Modern War Book! ! Gloriously Squalid 1
Exquisitely Revolting! Beautifully Horrid! ! !
Grandly Brutalising! ! ! ! High-powered hysteria that
Two Regulars, or “They really should give
you a part, Algy!”
will make you sweat cold for a week afterwards!
Come and see the world-shaking, universe-piercing
“Filth amongst the Fiords”—three acts of Delicious
Sordidness and Pandemonic Putrescency!
This sort of thing should help to swell the
trickle of intellectual addicts which flows
into the Queen’s Flail.
Across tlio jewelled and perfumed Yarra,
where dead cats float stomach-upwards
through the incred-
ible reflection of
the unbelievable
State Theatr e,
stands the Play-
house, the stamp-
ing-ground of the
Repertory Society.
Here there is a
variety of nice
light entertain-
ment and better
stuff, interesting
and often artistic.
There is one
other organisation
of importance, the
Australian Drama-
tic Society. This
society, housed in
a magnificent
dream of classic
architecture and
subsidised liberally
by the Govern-
ment, is devoted
exclusively to pre-
senting the great-
est works of the
greatest Australian
playwrights. I t
will be more fully described when it comes
into existence.
* * #
Kenneth Duffield is getting together a
good eo., headed by Frith, to stage his “Pot
Luck” revue at Adelaide Royal. The long-
running Show of S.A. Chamber of Manufac-
“My God, I am shot!”
turns is coming to an end at the Jubilee
Exhib. And a broadcasting eo., having found
a quite healthy cow whose heart is up in her
neck, promises to let all S.A. hear it through
a microphone.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Risk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
7 he Stanaara ot Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dvnamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
FOR 43 YEARS
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
HAS BEEN IN BUSINESS AS A CORPORATE TRUSTEE.
Since its incorporation it has never been held liable by the Courts for a
breach of Trust of any description.
The Company acts as EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE UNDER WILLS,
ADMINISTRATOR IN INTESTACY, ATTORNEY UNDER POWER, AGENT,
ETC., ETC.
WRITE FOR EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Manager:
H. Y. DOUGLASS.
Managing Director:
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
To the Man Who Is
Climbing. . . .
And Doesn’t Want to Fall.
More than a mere training course, tne
Alexander Hamilton Institute has an-
other, and perhaps an even more im-
portant, function. It helps men to
plan wisely, and it is an insurance
against those unforeseen, but unavoid-
able, crises which wreck so many
careers midway.
Send for the book —“Forcing Ahead
in Business”—now! It does not
obligate you in any way, but it does
give you an insight into the service
that is offered.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
Courses for Australasia controlled by -
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON.
SYDNEY: 38 Barrack House, 16 Barrack Street
MELBOURNE: 38 Bank House, Bank Place;
410-12 Collins Street.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
This Week’s Investment Tip.
Are forestry and like bonds safe invest-
ments? This is one of the questions put
to The Bulletin’s Service Department with
remarkable frequency of late.
A safe investment implies security of (1)
capital and (2) income. Paper of this class
is as good as ready money, because it is
always wanted, and can be readily exchanged
for something of equivalent value. There
is, of course, no investment that is absolutely
free from risk; not even Government secu-
rities, as the recent hardening of interest
rates clearly illustrates. But the risk may
be large or small, and the return, either pro-
mised or obtained, varies accordingly.
Taken as a whole, new enterprises are
much more risky than established ones. Also
the longer you have to wait for a return on
your money the more chance there is for
mischief to creep in. Forestry bonds, and
others in the same class, entitle the holders
to profits that, may be earned, not now,
but in the future; and even then the bond-
holder may not always be entitled to the
first claim. Also, attempts to predict
exactly what conditions will be or how
things are going to pan out 10 or 15 years
hence are merely guesswork. So, all things
considered, these bonds are a speculative
investment. The magnitude of the risk
depends upon many things, not the least of
which is care in selection.
It is only recently that the bond-selling
method of financing new ventures became
popular. First adopted for the launching
of forestry schemes, the plan was quickly
extended to flax- and tobacco-growing enter-
prises. It has opened up a very lucrative
field to the company promoter, and attracted
the savings of many small wage-earners,
who, for the most part, know nothing worth
speaking of about their investments. 'The
alluring tails tied to the kites by some of
the promoting organisations largely explain
the success thus far attained in raising
funds.
Money raised by the sale of these bonds
is inevitably expensive; there is, therefore,
the danger of excessive capitalisation. This
has already been made abundantly clear in
the Maoriland flax- and tobacco-growing in-
dustries. Generally speaking the pro-
moting organisations have placed themselves
in positions to gather fine harvests as (1)
vendors, (2) bond salesmen and (3) man-
aging agents. Indeed, the pickings would
make an old-time company promoter’s mouth
water.
The bondholders, who put up most of the
money, also shoulder most of the risks with-
out having any voice in the management.
This is one of the essential differences
between the bonds in question and shares.
Another is that bond-issues are not sub-
ject to special legislation, and they ought to
be. Little notice, therefore, need be taken of
the so-called prospectus, other literature and
sales talk that may be offered. For the most
part these consist of general observations on
afforestation, etc., that might well be dis-
placed by a plain straightforward statement
of the financial position. Those who desire
to know exactly what the position of a bond-
holder in any particular concern is should
study the terms and conditions of the
bond. The circumstances in which divs.
are payable, who bears the expense of selling
the lots and what paid and uncalled capital
there is in the undertaking should be care-
fully inquired into.
Now that the general level of earnings is
on the down grade, and unemployment on
the increase, forfeitures are becoming com-
mon. _ Where the amounts involved are in-
sufficient to cover the cost of selling the
bonds these forfeitures are a dead loss to
both shareholders and the remaining bond-
holders. If there is any surplus shareholders
usually reap the benefit. Only a few of the
cos. furnish bondholders with a full and
clear statement of wfiat has been done with
the bond moneys.
The whole position calls loudly to the Aus-
tralian and Maoriland Governments to take
steps to place these cos. under supervision
and have their accounts and affairs indepen-
dently audited. It should be said that -some
of the forestry cos. have asked for these
measures to be applied.
Bank of Australasia.
Writ-
Profits. Dividends. ten Off. Reserves.
Oct., £ £ £ £
1919.. . 460,768 18 p.c. = 360,000 3,227,823
Premiums on new shares, £875,000 4,102,823
Reserves capitalised, £1,000,000 3,102,823
1920.. 573,052 13 p.c. = 455,000 3,220,875
Premiums' on new shares, £250,000 3,470,875
1921.. 588,389 13 p.c. = 487,500 25,000 3,546,764
1922.. 620,105 13 „„ 520„000 3,046,869
1923.. 618,559 13 „„ 520,000 3,745,428
1924.. 629,904 13 „„ 520,000 25.000 3,830.332
1925.. 632,555 13 „„ 520,000 50,000 3,892,887
1926.. 652,621 14 „ „ 560,000 40,000 3,945,508
1927.. 654,060 14 „ ~ 560,000 50,000 3,989,568
Share premiums, £600,000 .. 4,589,568
1928.. 675,192 14 p.c. = 595,000 80,000 4,589,760
1929.. 677,183 14 „ ~ 630,000 4,636,943
A lot of water has run under the bridge
since the last balance was struck and the
accounts were sent to London, where the
headquarters are, and returned to Australia,
whore most of the business is done. During
that time five of the associated banks here
have cut their div. rates. Not that insuffi-
cient was earned to maintain the old rate
of distribution, but because profit writing
is largely a matter of estimate, and since
security values are on the decline profit esti-
mates are immeasurably more uncertain than
hitherto. Money suddenly became scarcer,
and therefore worth more, owing (1)
to stoppage in the supply of overseas loan
funds, and (2) to lower prices for our
primary products. Still, the ’Asia main-
tained its div. at 14 p.c., notwithstanding
that it called for an extra £35,000 last year.
That was because there was half a million
more capital to feed than there was a couple
of years ago.
The chief investment interest at the
moment is whether the 14 p.c. div. is secure.
The year’s declared profit was 15 p.c. on
average capital as against 15.8, 16.3 and
16.3 p.c. for the three preceding years. The
recent brisk increase in advances and slug-
gish growth in deposits has increased
the proportion of risks, while lessened
trade activity, both in the export and local
markets, can be expected to affect exchange
and other earnings. But the last lot of scrip
brought with it £600,000 of share premiums;
thus 14 p.c. on the new capital is costing
the bank only 6.3 p.c. There was £4,636,943
openly assisting the £4,500,000 of paid capi-
tal at the close of accounts. So, to pay a
14 p.c. div. visible funds need to earn 6.8
p.c.; actually, average funds turned in 7.4
p.c. last year. Moreover, the chairman gives
his assurance that “advances are well
secured, apart from the ample provision made
against possible losses.” This provision is
not on view, but in the premises item alone
a million or more is believed to be hidden,
and, no doubt, tidy sums are tucked away
elsewhere. Also the fact that shareholders
have never failed to receive a div. for over
80 years makes it plain that the manage-
ment has not hitherto underestimated the
risks.
The. outstanding features of the accounts
are strength combined with steady expansion
of the business: —
Liabilities.
inor: IQOC IQ9Q
Notes .. .. £437,626 £428,622 £434,329
Bills, etc. .. 3,694,129 3,909,217 4,569,795
Deposits . . 28,708,674 33,876,329 34,414,798
Assets.
Liquid assets. . 11,180,726 12,587,894 10,914,862
Advances . . 25,393,633 31,564,314 34,314,960
Bills, etc. . . 4,339,651 3,307,544 3,362,670
Premises .. 79,306 159,176 278,373
The scarcity of money is reflected in a net
growth of only £588,469 in deposits last
year; about 65 p.c. of the total is interest-
bearing. Advances sprang £2,750,646, mount-
ing to 99.7 p.c. of the deposits as against
93.1 p.c. at the previous balance. Neverthe-
less the bank was holding only £4 6s. 3d.
of the public’s money for every pound of its
own funds. Liquids were drawn upon for
£1.673,032; still depositors and others could
see ss. 6d. of every pound of their money in
cash and Government securities, etc., .with
another Is. 9d. in bills receivable and remit-
tances in transit.
Over the last 12 months the fall in the
price of the co.’s scrip has been proportion-
ately less than the fall in Government securi-
ties. The £5 paid shares, which were at
£l4 12s. 6d. in May. 1929, are now priced at
£l2 ss. on the market. The return at the
current figure is only 5.6 p.c. on a 14 p.c.
div. basis. The exhibited backing figures out
at £lO 2s. per share in net tangibles.
Burns, Philo and Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 260,139 10 p.c. = 125,000 135,139 667,407
Island interests sold to Burns, Philp (South Sea) Co.
1921.. 132,274 10 p.c. = 125,000 7,274 674,681
1922.. 194.718 10 „ ~ 125.000 69,718 744.399
Written off steamships, £25,000 719.399
1923.. 192.242 10 p.c. =? 125,000 67,242 786,641
Written off steamships, £25.000 761.641
1924.. 182.357 10 p.c. = 125.900 57,357 818.90 S
1925.. 190,155 10 „ ~125,000 65.155 884,153
1926.. 198,683 10 „ „ 125 000 73.688 957 841
1927.. 213,297 10 „ ~137,500 75,797 1,033,638
1928.. 243,485 10 „ ~150.000 93.485 1,127.123
1929.. 244,381 10 „ ~150,000 94.381 1,221,504
1930.. 247,946 10 „ ~150,000 97,946 1,319,450
The position had become so attractive that
the market considered extra benefits were
imminent, and therefore pushed the price for
the pound shares to 50s. That was if
March, 1929; but nothing happened, so bide
eased to 455. a couple of months later. The
general readjustment of share prices has
since brought the figure back to 345., the
fall being due mainly to the rise in interest
rates. Allowing for the final div. (Is.) the
return at the current price is a shade over
6 p.c. on alO p.c. div. basis; that rate looks
as secure as anything of the kind can in
these troubled times, and prospects are en-
couraging. The visible backing amounts to
375. 7d. per share in net tangibles.
Last year a shrinkage in earnings was
reported in several directions, chiefly ship-
ping. But whatever the co. missed on the
swings it got on the roundabouts; the gross
profit from all sources sprang £17,819,
reaching the record figure of £780,855.
Exes. (£412,907) took. £10,814 of the in-
crease, and after £136,017 had been struck
off for depreciation, and £16,015 net dropped
from somewhere into the ‘'insurance fund
and sundry branch and other reserves,
£487,775,’’ the net result mounted to 16.5
p.c. on average capital compared with 16.3,
16.2, 15.5, 15.9 and 15.2 p.c. back to 1925.
The only’ time that, better than that was
shown was during the post-war price boom,
when the net result reached 20.8 p.c. on
average capital in 1920. Moreover the posi-
tion may be better than it looks; since 1919
no less than £1,273,137 has been visibly
written off the book value of assets in order
to cover depreciation, etc. How much of
that amount was actually needed the “Wild
Cat” does not know, but it suspects that
some of it was true profit, which has been
thus whisked away to inner reserves.
Chief sources of profit are the co.’s big
and widely scattered merchandising, lend-
ing a*nd shipping interests, which spread
from. Queensland to the rest of Australia,
and out over the Pacific islands, then north
to Java and elsewhere. Also a nice harvest
is gathered from the chief subsidiaries: —
Issued 8.-P.’s Last
Capital. Holding. Div.
Bums Philp (South Seas)
Co £750,000 £500,000 71 p.c.
Queensland Insurance .. 500,000 249,000 121 ~
A.U.S.N. Co 20,200
Choiseul Plantations .. 150,000 20,400 9 ~
Solomon Islands Develop-
ment. Co 95,000 10,450 3.7 „
Shortland Islands Planta-
tions 43,535 3,400 2.5 „
Jantzen (Aust.), Ltd. .. 65,000 5,999
Last year the Sydney agency for the
A.U.S.N. co., held by 8.-P. since 1887.
passed to Macdonald, Hamilton and Co. At
the same time the agency for that line at
Bowen (Q.) went to 8.-P., while the South
Seas co. got the agency for the Pacific
Islands. There is also an American sub-
sidiary, 8.-P. Incorporated, which was
formed in ’Frisco in 1917.
How the parent goes on letting out its
belt this next comparison shows: —
1915. 1925. 1929. 1930.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital 1,000,000 1,250,000 1,500,000 1,500,000
Liabilities.. 261,095 1,361,444 1,302,798 1,190,859
P l* operties,
shipping, in-
v e stments,
etc. . . 575,790 2,030,836 2,196,549 2,237,691
Stocks, ad-
vances, etc. 573,147 683,968 807,406 770,175
Book debts 382,624 781,838 1,016,140 943,709
Cash . . 47,018 123,955 79,208 133,734
Of the £111,939 by which the debt contracted
during the year, £69,269 was due to the with-
drawal of deposits (now £65,173), and the
balance mainly to trade fluctuations. The
addition of £41,142 to the book value of fixed
assets, which include investments, was
chiefly on account of property and shipping.
Also a new cargo and passenger ship is on
order. The more or less liquid surplus
(£656 759, including stocks) was £56,803
stronger than at the previous balance. It
all looks very reassuring.
Peters-Arctic Delicacy Co. (Brisbane).
N et Towards
March, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1928.. 3,710 10 p.c. = 3312 398 29,515
1929.. 12,234 10 „ „ 8250 3984 25,531
Goodwill sold to associate co., £5000.. 20,531
Nominal
Reserves.
Taxation and depreciation reserves in-
cluded, £34,280 .. .. .. 13,749
1930.. 15,992 5 p.c. = 7537 8455 22,204
This is the co. that was formed three years
ago to manufacture “Peters” ice-cream in
Brisbane. It has siuce been busy develop-
ing its interests by absorptions and other-
wise, and its markets now extend south to
the N.S.W. border and north to Rockhamp-
ton. To begin with, £40,000 in scrip was
paid, half to Peters’ co. in Sydney for its
Queensland rights, etc., and the other half
to the Arctic co. for its business, including
£BOOO for goodwill. Then 112,000-odd pound
shares were put on the Brisbane market and
quickly taken. That was to provide for the
erection and equipment of a new factory,
which did not begin earning till November,
1928. Meanwhile the old plant continued to
bring in enough to pay two annual divs. of
10 p.c. each.
Early in the last term the eo. sold its
N.Q. rights for £5OOO in scrip, and that
amount was struck off goodwill (now
£23,000), which is not treated as an asset
herein. Also it bought control of two oppo-
sition concerns in the metropolitan area,
apparently for £20,289; the method of pay-
ment and the amount of goodwill involved,
if any, have not been disclosed. In addition
a branch factory was put up at Rockhamp-
ton, and is now contributing to the pool. It
was partly responsible for the addition of
£72,036 to the book value of freeholds and
plant. Hitherto, whatever may have been
set aside for depreciation was deducted from
the book value of the asset, but at March
31 the total provisions to date were lumped
with the general and taxation reserves on
the other side of the sheet. The lot, an un-
satisfactory combination, showed a net
increase of £34,280.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it: —
1927. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Old Co.
Paid capital .. £10,621 £67,181 £110,836 £179,181
Liabilities .. 2,475 5,520 33,829 38,103
Freeholds .. Nil 4,174 63,689 95,560
Plant, etc. . . 7,092 17,797 63,647 103,812
Investments . . —- 25,289
Stock . . 1,471 2,149 3,147 8,595
Hook debts . . 1,351 2,233 5,484 13,447
Cash, etc. . . 3,121 23,196 467 325
At the close of last accounts liabilities ex-
ceeded the more or less liquids, including
stock, by £15,736, which was £7995 less
than the excess a year earlier.
The £68,348 of fresh capital gathered
during the term was not enough, and since
money became tighter the board cut the div.
in halves, reducing it to 5 p.c., thus leav-
ing £8455 of the year’s net takings in the
business. The £15,992 of profit claimed was
10.6 p.c. on average capital as against 14.8
p.c. in the previous term; but 10 p.c. on
capital as it now stands will call for nearly
£2OOO more than was netted last year. Of
course the Rockhampton factory and the
two businesses bought have not had a chance
to show what they can do. Still the rapid
growth in the trade has been greatly aided
by the recent excessive spending on luxuries,
and since curtailment of that expenditure
is certain the earnings of this and other
Peters cos. are likely to be affected.
On the market the contribs., paid to 15s. —
present intention is not to call the other ss.
—were at 255. 6d. a year ago; buyers now
offer 10s. with sellers standing off at 13s.
At the middle price the return is 6.5 p.c.
on a 5 p.c. div. basis. On the same basis
the fully-paids at 18s. return 5.5 p.c., or
8.8 if the div. is lifted to 8 p.c. Subject
to any goodwill in investments, the net tan-
gible 'backing is 225. 6d. per pound of paid
capital.
Standard-Waygood, Ltd. (Sydney).
To Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 46,238 10 p.c.- 21,600]
Special div. (10 p.c.) to pur- l 3,038 23,560
chase bonus shares, £21,600 J
£lOO,OOO (in shares) paid for Deficit.
English Electric connection .. . . 76,440
1921.. 26,750 Nil 26,750 49,690
Bonus to subscribers to new share issue,
paid in Weymouth scrip, £23,760.. 73,450
1922.. 46,543 10 p.c. = 35,842 10,701 62.749
Reserves.
Goodwill shares cancelled, £100,000.. 37,251
1923.. 37,175 10 p.c. = 36,912 263 37,514
1924.. 37,501 10 „ „ 36,982 519 38,033
Recovered from Sydney Council, £16,447 54,480
1925.. 5,600 5 p.c. = 18,491 41,589
1926.. 10,982 2* „ „ 9,246 1,736 43,325
Added to reserves .. .. 11,205 54,530
1927.. 19,657 5 p.c. = 18,491 1,166 55,696
1928.. 29,158 7$ „ „ 27,736 1,422 57,118
Plant written down £183,305 —7s. 9d.
struck off each share, balance ( £40,000)
taken from reserves. 2s. 3d. per share
returned in cash .. .. .. 17,118
1929.. 22,615 10 p.c. = 18,491 4,124 21,242
1930.. 9,720 5 „ „ 9,246 474 21,716
Shareholders never got less than 10
p.c. for the 15 years to 1924. But the
Government failed to give the co. the sup-
port promised, thus the heavy plant which
the management had installed in 1921 at
a cost of over £300,000 for the manufacture
of turbo-alternators became a drag. Things
were right on the technical side, but under
existing conditions it was found impossible
to compete successfully in price against the
imported article. So, a little over a year
ago, the board revalued the Clyde works on
a 10 p.c. basis at £75,000: they stood in the
books at £258,305. The accounts were
adjusted by rubbing out £40,000 of reserves
and striking 7s. 9d. off each £1 share. The
working capital released by closing down
the heavy plant was used to wipe out the
debenture debt and return 2s. 3d. per share
in cash. Thus capital was cut in halves,
reducing it to £184,910.
With the figures on an even keel, divs. de-
pended chiefly on the maintenance of earn-
ings in the electric-lift, electric-transformer
and switch-gear departments. Trading con-
ditions, however, changed completely last
year, and except for the manufacture of
switch-gear the co.’s workshops were idle
for most of the term. Also one of the sub-
(Continued on page 18.)


Life and Fire
Policies
You are being asked to
insure with offices which
are on the verge of bank-
ruptcy.
If you want to protect
yourselves read
The “‘WildCat’
Monthly”
MAY NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COi-V, 2/-; PER ANNUM,
22/C. From Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* =:= .1: *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Exchange
Arranged. Geo. E. Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria
Buildings, Corner Collins and Swanston Streets, Mel-
bourne.^ — Advt.
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Pipes are being used on an increas-
ing number of important water supply contracts,
which shows how well they have performed their
work under Australian conditions. The fact that
wood cannot corrode and is unaffected by heat or
frost is a point greatly in favor of Pioneer Wood
Pipe. Then there is its cheapness in comparison
to metal pipe—its ease of handling and installation,
and its great durability. Those interested should
get in touch with the Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Burns Bay Hoad (near Figtree Bridge), Lane
Cove, N.S.W. ; and at Footscray, Victoria. —Advt.
* * * ,*
Bismuth.—We are buyers of Bismuth Concentrates
in any quantity. Write, giving , particulars of
quantity available, and send samples to Elliott
Brothers, Limited, Box 494 AA, G.P.0., Sydney.
—Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board,. Moree. — Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES —AUSTRALIAN MADE. —Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331*333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes. — Advt.
INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers’
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
r
YG
boord^son
FINEST DRY GIN
8l OLD TOM
1
&
DT
A
wife & Company
Ltd.. AuHtruiUMiiin Agent*, 26 60 Clurence St..
Sydney
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Offices Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-Glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone,
etc., Covered at Lowest Rates. s
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
LONDON.
THE FOUR HOTELS WHICH GUARANTEE
LUXURY AND REFINEMENT, WITH
CUISINE OF THE HIGHEST STANDARD.
ALL BEDROOMS HAVE RUNNING WATER
AND EXCHANGE TELEPHONES, GAS
FIRES AND CENTRAL HEATING,
PASSENGER LIFTS TO ALL FLOORS,
GARAGE AND NIGHT PORTER.
HOTEL INVERNESS COURT,
1-9 INVERNESS TERRACE, HYDE PARK, W. 2.
90 Rooms. Terms - from 41 guineas.
Telephone 9901 Park (5 lines).
LANCASTER COURT HOTEL,
66-09 LANCASTER GATE, HYDE PARK, W. 2.
100 rooms. Terms from 4 guineas.
Telephone Padd. 9121 (3 lines).
PARK ROYAL HOTEL,
25-28 LEINSTER GARDENS, HYDE PARK, W. 2.
75 rooms. Terms from 34 guineas. Double, 6,guineas.
’Phone Padd.' 9712 (3 lines).
BERKELEY COURT HOTEL,
29-31 LEINSTER. GARDENS, HYDE PARK, W. 2.
55'.Rooins. Terms from 3-!' guineas. Double 6 guineas.
'Phone Padd. 8022.
HOTEL INVERNESS - COURT AND LANCASTER
COURT HOTEL ARE IDEALLY SUITED FOR
RECEPTIONS AND AT-HOMES.
'.The above are personally supervised -by; . Mrs*. .J. E.
Stevenson.- Keep'these addresses for future references
and friends, X 142
sidiaries, Weymouth's, Ltd., paid no div.,
and is not expected to do so till next year.
Altogether the year’s net gatherings were
less than half the average for the preceding
four years, and little more than enough to
pay 5 p.c. on capital as reduced. And it
is doubtful whether the current term will
yield.better results. With most of the capi-
tal cities over-built there is not likely to be
much except maintenance work in the eleva-
tor business for a while. The switch-gear
department is the brightest spot; here the
00. has 12 months’ work in hand, and more
orders are coming in.
The co. is well equipped to take advantage
of any improvement in trading conditions,
as this next comparison shows:—
1924. 1927. 1929. 1930.
Capital .. £369,820 £369,820 £184,910 £184,910
Debentures .. 33,400 33,400 300
Liabilities* .. 67,965 31,464 41,512 37,903
Property and
plant . . 290,046 280,400 108,311 105,700
Stock and work 129,035 106,349 62,062 50,183
Book debts,
cash, etc... 56,173 76,515 49,275 63,892
Subsidiaries, etc. 70,944 45,607 46,807 34,000
including- provision for taxation.
The Clyde freehold and plant figure at
£85,000, up £lO,OOO during the year. The
sale of laud at Concord is responsible for
the reduction in the book value of fixed
assets and for the increase in book debts.
The deal resulted in a small loss. The con-
traction in the stocks and work figures is
due mainly to the further writing down of
slow selling lines. Including stocks, the
more or less liquid surplus (£76,172) was
£6647 stronger than at. the previous balance.
The pound shares are at 9s. on the market
as against 21s. 6d. a year ago. The return
at the current price is 11.1 p.c. on a 5 p.c.
div. basis. The backing amounts to 225. 4d.
in net tangibles, mostly plant worth what
it can earn.
Mount Isa.
Queensland Premier Arthur Moore an-
nounced last week-end that his Government
had agreed to guarantee an overdraft for
Mount Isa Mines, Ltd., the big silver-lead
proposition which is now nearing the pro-
duction stage. Over £2,300,000 (mostly
London capital) has already been spent at
Isa in opening up the ore and equipping
the property with a modern plant to treat
2000 tons ore per day for a start. Actually,
the crushing unit installed is able to deal
with 5000 tons per day, but the treatment
of this higher tonnage will not begin till
later.
The co. found that to get to the produc-
tion stage it was £500,000 short of require-
ments. In its latest programme it budgeted
for an expenditure of £1,500,000, and decided
to make a debenture issue to meet it. Mining
Trust (London) agreed to take £1,000,000 of
this, and a favorable opportunity was
awaited for placing the balance on the
market. That opportunity never came. The
Hatry smash in London, the Stock Exchange
crash in New York, the big fall in the price
of copper (lead came back in sympathy) and
Australia’s financial difficulties all stood in
the way. Meanwhile those opposed to Isa
lost no chances. It was rumored in London
and America that the Queensland Govern-
ment was antagonistic to the Isa enterprise.
In the circumstances the board had to
decide whether to (1) ask an unfavorable
London market for £500,000, or (2) close
down until a more propitious season.
Neither could be seriously entertained
without further effort. To close down
just as commercial production was about
to begin would have cost the co. a
lot of time and money to reorganise its
personnel, and have thrown about 3000
people out of work. So it was decided to
ask the Queensland Government to guaran-
tee a bank overdraft equal to any shortage
there might be in subscriptions for a deben-
ture issue of £500,000 on the London market,
such issue to be made immediately. The
Premier had Isa secretly examined by an
Australian mining engineer who is one of
the most competent men that could be found
for the job. He scrutinised the pro-
position from top to bottom; the report was
favorable, and the Government agreed to
give the guarantee.
There can be no question about the quan-
tity of ore at Isa. On a 2000-tons-a-day basis
there is 40 years’ work in sight, and the time
can be extended by probing further into
the lodes. It is a mass-production proposi-
tion, and it is claimed that the ore can be
profitably treated at the present low metal
prices.
The debenture issue, which is to be made
in London this week, carries interest at 8
p.c., and is convertible into shares at 30s.
each.
When a Bulletin man last had a close look
at the mining work at Isa the flow of water
underground was something to be more or
less pleased with. Gradually, however, as
the shafts were deepened and the headings
advanced, the flow increased enormously; it
is now 1,250,000 gallons per day, and the
temporary power plant has been unable to
cope with it, and at the same time give the
necessary air for development work. So
a Variation in the mining and initial treat-
ment programme had to be made, and is
now well under way. Apart from this water
trouble, which will be well taken care of
when the permanent power plant is operat-
ing, work at the mine was thrown back a
couple of months by floods early this year.
These damaged the Cloncurry bridge' and
held up rail traffic at the Burdekin bridge,
across which coal for Isa has to be hauled
from Bowen. Maybe another route will be-
come necessary when the mine begins to
treat 5000 tons a day, if not before. The
hoped-for start of operations in August has
been abandoned: but by the end of the
year a section of the mill should be at work.
“Spare Towkay”: A great deal has been
said in the daily press about the
flop in tin prices. A fall below the
£l5O mark is certainly serious. If the price
remains below that figure too long it will
mean that nearly every dredge in Malaya
will have to go out of commission. It looks
very like a well-aimed blow at the restriction
scheme. This scheme came into force early
in the year by an agreement amongst pro-
ducers who control practically half the
world’s output, among them being many
of the leading Australian concerns. Although
it was anticipated that such a move would
bring to light warehoused stocks of tin, on
which it was known that speculative holders
had been sitting, no one quite expected that
the releases would have beeu so heavy. They
increased visible supplies last month by over
3000-tons. It is believed, however, that the
hoarders are now nearing the finish of their
supplies. Meanwhile the scrip of many sound
concerns has fallen to what looks like very
low prices on the market. London has
reported heavy buying by foreign interests
in Malayan tin stocks. Some months ago,
the big English-Malayan companies awoke to
the fact that American brokers were snap-
ping up all the loose shares in British-
Malayan show’s, and it would not be sur-
prising to learn that the same sort of thing
is happening in Australia. •
*** - *
E. J. C. Hunter, of Herberton, who
is to represent N.Q. Chambers of Commerce
at the Empire Congress, will make a bold
bid to interest British capital in the old
Palmer goldfield behind Cooktown. He will
represent the Palmer Development Co.,
which has an option over some 600 acres of
the Maytown section of the field. When
the alluvial began to peter out, a lot of money
was invested in reefing, but the ore, like
that of the Etheridge and other fields
north of Charters Towers, proved too refrac-
tory for any of the processes known then.
Work ceased on a large scale in 1884, when
the bank declined to advance any more for
wages. In addition to the Maytown area
and the machinery still on it, a 21 years’
lease of the Cooktown-Leura railway is also
to be taken by the Development Co. The,
line, built in the hope that the field would
develop into another Charters Towers, has
been practically abandoned for years, though
a certain amount of maintenance work has
been carried on.
:1: * % *
Edjudina (W.A.), a 30-years-old mining
centre on the Yerilla goldfield, is enjoying
a renaissance.. Prospector Alf. Thompson,
searching on behalf of Kimberley Oil
Options, recently located a series of quartz
outcrops in the bed of the long s.-e. arm
of Lake Itaeside, and gold is showing freely
in one of them. The outcrops occur in a
line over a length of 1500 feet, with blanks
of lake bottom between them. Whether the
quartz will be connected at depth or turn
out to be a number of lenses- has yet to
be proved. The deposit varies in width from
two to seven feet, and runs parallel with
the western shore of the lake, in which an
abnormal rainfall puts a few inches of
water for short periods. The gold occur-
rence is on the Yerilla-Yarri-Edjydina fault
plane, and is contained in greenstone schist
in the belt in which practically all the
long-ago discoveries on the goldfield were
made. The find is 130 miles n.-e. of Kal-
goorlie and 20 miles s.-e. of Yarri, where
there is a State treatment plant.
* * H* *
Interested parties are again blowing about
the mineral wealth of Nor’-Westralia. _ One
crowd claims to have found a mountain of
copper somewhere near the coast, another
to have discovered tin galore further inland,
while a third is anxious to float a- co. with
a million of capital to mop up an ocean of
oil in a region not stated. The Mines Dept,
says it knows nothing about the copper or
tin discoveries, and less about the sea of
petroleum.
# «i * *
Britannia Gold Mines Co., which whooped
a little about its prospects during _ the
Hampton Plains boom and then subsided,
is again turning its attention to Westralia.
Shareholders were recently informed that a
representative of the co. had gone to the new
find at Edjudina, and if he got an option on
anything worth while they would be notified.
Edna May Group (Westonia) is unac-
countably slow getting the new grinding pan
in position. The idea is to assist five head of
the 10-stamp mill. But since simple amalga-
mation, effects satisfactory gold extraction,
it is hard to understand why the second five
head is not placed in commission instead
of installing new machinery. Meantime, ore
treatment is suspended, and shareholders
are impatient.
Shareholders in the Great Beacon mine,
Holleton (W.A.), are satisfied with the yield
from the first parcel of ore treated at the
new mill ; 25 tons from a dump showed a
gold content of 32dwt. per ton. The mine is
well opened up for a small show, and the
treatment of bigger parcels is awaited with
interest.
* sjs :!: ❖
Ingliston Consols, the main prop of Meeka-
tharra goldfield (W.A.), has closed down.
The end was not unexpected, operations
having been unpayable for some time past.
The probabilities are that the show will
be reworked again before long on a smaller
scale, perhaps by tribute parties.
* * .1: *
As Star emerald mine (W.A.) continues
unprofitable the board has called the manager
to London. Several thousand carats have
been dug out, but only a few small stones
have been marketable. Still, boosting en-
abled a few persons to do well, though
others, including a London broker, have
fared badly.
# $ :Ji
Golden Butterfly Co. has been getting into
hot water at Norseman (W.A.) for dodging
the labor conditions on its optioned leases
there. Irate speakers at a recent roll up
smote the co. for its idleness. In the last
two years the co. has had eight months’
exemption, and was lately seeking a further
three months.
* * * *
An Eastern States firm has agreed to take
all arsenic recovered from Wiluna Mines,
and the quantity expected runs into thou-
sands of tons annually. If this should not
be sufficient, there is always the Transvaal
mine, Southern Cross, to fall back on. The
Transvaal is guaranteed to furnish all
arsenic required to all points of the compass.
* * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
In 1924 I took out with the Common-
wealth Life an Endowment Trust policy for
£250, returnable in 1944 at a premium of
£l2 ss. i I have often asked for information
regarding the fund, but can get ho satis-
faction. I never have understood it. ' Can you
help ?—6272. '
This pool is called the N. S. Wales Endow-
ment Trust. There were originally 52 sub-
scribers, who took out ordinary endowment
policies with the Commonwealth Life, but
assigned their rights to the trustees of the
pool. Of the original number, 34 have dis-
continued and one has died, thus leaving 17
subscribers who continue to pay premiums to
the co. When a subscriber dies, dependents
are repaid his actual premium payments,
but; the excess of the sum assured and
bonuses (if any) are reinvested in the pool.
At the- end of 20 years the survivors, whose
endowments have by this time matured, divide
the pool amongst themselves. The Common-
wealth Life Go. was reviewed in the “Wild
Cat Monthly” l/2/’30..
I have some money on fixed deposit, and
ivhen it is due for repayment I propose to
return to England. Is the manager having
a joke with me when he tells me I may not
be able to get the money?— 64ola.
You will get the money all right, but-
whether you will be able to take it away is
another matter. If you are paid in notes, as
you probably will be, you will find difficulty
in cashing them abroad ; and at best it will
cost yon about Is. sd. in the £ to do it. Ask
your banker for a letter of credit, though
that will cost you nearly as much. (This
is the economic crisis we’ve been talking
about for years.)
(1) What are bulls and bears on the Stock
Exchange? (2) To what extent is the
present depression in share prices due to
their operations? (3) What is the differ-
ence between scrip and shares? —6s43.
(1) A bull is an operator who buys shares,
usually to be paid for six weeks ahead in
the hope of selling them again at a higher
price before he has to pay for them. A
bear sells shares -which he hasn’t got, also
for forward delivery, in the expectation that
he will be able to pick them up at a lower
price before he has to deliver them. The
aim in both cases, of course, is a profit. The
bear is liable to be a panic-monger, and
therefore a calamity at the moment. If
cos. made public all information really im-
portant to shareholders, the bear would have
far less po-wer to do harm. (2) It is impos-
sible to say definitely. A bear may be a
perfectly genuine operator; it is the lies that
are told in order to influence the market
that do most of the damage. Chief factors
which govern the price of shares are the
earning power, financial strength and pros-
pects of the co. concerned, together with the
quantity of money available for investment.
(3) In the jargon of the Stock Exchange
the two terms are synonymous.
(1) Rave ive now a gold standard in Aus-
tralia? (2) If something 1 else has been sub-
stituted does it not amount to an act of
bankruptcy ? —6410.
(1) The gold standard was abandoned
in December, 1929. (2) No, not necessarily.
Thd gold standard was abandoned by Britain
in August, 1914, and was not resumed till
1925. Yet nobody suggested that Britain
was bankrupt.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
A.Y.8.: Read this week’s Investment Tip,
page 17... .Anxious: The co.’s prospects are better
than they have been for years; worth nursing for
a while... .T.H.W.: (1) Largely depends upon
whether board can raise the capital required; it has
been a long time trying. (2) Not if safety of
capital is important. .. JJ.L.D.: Commonwealth Life
(Amalgamated) Assurances, Ltd., reviewed B.
29/l/’30... .D.H.: All thoroughly sound; would be
difficult to find better with equal prospects. A
shows best immediate return, but possible effects of
competition' and reduced spending need to be con-
sidered A.H., R.R.C., M.S.P.: For Merron
Estate, see B. 30/4/’3O, page 16 B.O.: First two
are a gamble, ranking in the order you state. The
third is a producer, paid 6d. div. Nov. 1, 1929 ;
300 tons crushed for 3550 z. gold, April 4 last....
J.C.A.: Know nothing of it.


■
ex
n
4i " • ' V
■■ •
Hfe
Mounting Australian tyres on rims at a General Motors plant. General
Motors Australia is the largest purchaser of Australian tyres in the itiotor
industry.
Wm
m
1811
A
Hi
£
Broadcloth woven from the wool of Australian
sheep is used in upholstery of the Australian-built
bodies of General Motors cars. The woollen thills
which produce this material give employment to
many hundreds of Australians.
(Photograph by courtesy of Development and Migration
Commission.)
ẃ
pICTURE to yourself the vast army of
A Australian workers who help to pro-
duce General Motors cars.
•k°gg efs > mill hands, wood workers cut and
shape and join Australian timber for Aus
tralian bodies. Painters, glaziers, metal
workers, upholsterers add their skilled
work. In Australian factories, tyres ' and
batteries are built.
Wool and leather and cotton, iron and
steel and lead, paint and Duco—these are
only part of the required materials, pro-
duced in Australia by Australians.
Of these, General Motors Australia is the
largest purchaser in the motor industry. It
has expended ,£12,000,000 in Australia
since its beginning in 1926. And in line
with its policy Of buying all possible Aus-
ralian materials, to-day General Motors
Australia is buying more material in the
Commonwealth than ever before.
To produce and fabricate this material,
16,000 workers in a score of industries
share in building this famous group of cars.
Approximately 1,500 more keep assembly
lines moving in five great General Motors
plants. And 591 General Motors dealers
wh6 distribute and service these employ
over 3,000 more—bringing the total to
above 20,000 Australian workers.
And every finished General Motors car and
truck goes out to contribute in its turn to
Australia’s programme of increased national
production. For this, few forces are more
essential than speedy, economical transport.
:>X-
m-m
wmm
mmm mi
CHEVROLET...
PONTIAC
OLDSMOBILE
MARQUETTE..
OAKLAND....
BUICK
VAUXHALL....
LA SALLE.....
CADILLAC.....
also
Chevrolet Trucks
Pontiac Express Deliveries
General Motors Trucks....
The upholstery, whether leather or broadcloth,
covers padding worked up by Australian work-
men from cotton produced by white labor in
Queensland.
C Photograph by courtesy of Development and Migration '
Commission.)
M
Ip *
m.
■
-V..
■i :■
• "'V • ;
:r
m
m
m
B
m
mm
HP
.
:
■
'mm
C
This revolving table for strip-
ing wheels was designed and
manufactured in Australia.
The operator holds the strip-
ing brush in one hand upon
the hand - rest fixture, the
brush merely touching the
wheel. The wheel is revolved
and the stripe completed.
For its Australian-built
bodies General Motors Aus-
tralia consumes thousands of
gallons of Australian pro-
duced paint and Duco each
year.
In the forests of Queensland
and Tasmania huge trees are
cut into lengths, the first step
in a long process ending with
the finished product of the
bodybuilding craftsman.
{Phot graph by courtesy of Develop-
ment and Migration Commission.')
Semet Solvay Coke Ovens, at the Newcastle Steel Works of Broken Hill Pro-, '*
prietary Company Ltd. With increasing car ownership, motor car production;
each year makes increasing demands for steel an incentive to Australian V
home enterprise. Steel from Australian mills is purchased by Holden’s Motor
Body Builders, Ltd., builder of bodies for General Motors cars.
General Motors (Australia) Pty. ltd
BRISBANE - SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - PERTH*
More Wealth for Australia More Jobs for Australians


When you come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher’s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike,
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
Special tariff or inclusive terms.
m
T
H O
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel.” Svdnev.
H ed m
wakfast
Tariff
if desired
HOW MANY TIMES ?
How many times have you promised someone near and dear
that you would, for a mutual purpose, save your money?
How many times have you promised yourself that the next big
opportunity would find you prepared?
How many times have you admitted the wisdom of saving habits
and then left the other fellow to do the saving?
Does it mean anything to you that in Australia there are several
million other fellows steadily saving their spare cash and beating you
to the big opportunity?
Take a Savings Account into partnership—profit is assured.
Cbmmcnwcaltl) Savinas Jank of Australia
(Guaranteed bv the Commonwealth Government ).
LON 6 LIFE
y*V
f- -
c t
/ 1 s
~v
N
Owing to special
process in manu-
facture of the lead,
the ‘Mephisto’ Copy-
ing Pencil lasts much
longer, yet writes
easily and smoothly
without heavy
pressure.
Medium, Hard and
Extra Hard Degrees.
THE POPULAR
COPYING PENCILS
Also in 8 colours for checking, ttc.
From alt Stationers, etc.
L. A a HARDTMUTH, of “ KOH-I-NOOR ”
London Offic< —29. Kintfsway. W.C.2
Austra ian Representativ 3
JOHN MACDOUGALL, P. O. Box 165,
Ponoil fame,
SYDNEY.
ABORIGINALITIES
MANE AUSTRALIA
THE QUALITY POLISH
KIWI
“Honi Pikau”: There’s a streak of the
Irish in the Maori way of putting things.
Latterly I’ve been neglecting to pay my
customary visits to Henare at the pa, which
FAIR DUES!
INDIGNANT HEN: “Hey, pick for pick, you old waddler! No shovelling!"
is about three miles from my residence.
Last Sunday I had a spasm of conscience
and trotted along. Henare greeted me
reproachfully: “Fy korry, choa, if I rived
as crose to you as you do to me I’d ofteu
pop in and have te korcro.”
“Archie O’Logical”: It is a matter of
marvel to educated moderns who are not
given to thinking, that there are savage races
who hand down all their records from genera-
tion to generation by word of mouth. The
Maoris, to take one small example, used
to keep their genealogical trees and tbeir
land titles that way, and
rubbed along very well. I
don't think they have a
single war in their re-
cords of any consequence*
that arose out of a dis-
pute as to heredity or
title. One of the reasons
is that the spoken record
can’t be tampered with
or sub-edited in trans-
mission to any great ex-
tent, and—and this is the
great point—it isn’t di-
vested of humor. So
long as almost everybody
has had from his father
(who had it from his
father, and so on to the
nth degree) the scan-
dalous story of how
Kurunui lost his chief-
tainship, with the point
of the impolite jest well
underscored, and improved
upon by generation of
polishers, there isn’t much
scope for the litigant
who wants to trace a
claim to Kurunui. The
pious gents, who scribed
on wax or scrawled on
papyrus, renewing these
perishable records from
age to age, must have
ironed out of history
many a joke that does
service elsewhere to this
day, having come to us
by the discredited word-
of-mouth channel. As to
the priests who made in-
scriptions in stone for
the Pharaohs and the
Caesars and the Indian kings—well, a sense
of humor was an unhealthy thing for them
to indulge.
❖ *f: ❖
“Lot 13”: “No,” said old Tinnope, “I
don’t believe in ghosts, but there was a time
I did. D’yer mind old Roger Martin’s hut
what he hanged hisself in, and dangled there
till his head fell off? Well, I struck it one
night with me horse done in and a big storm
brewing. It wasn’t till the old moke sort
of shied away, snorting and shaking, that I
remembered about that rope, and the groans
and gurgles coves reckoned they’d heard there
ever since. Still, I wasn’t going to be a
fool, with the chance of a roof between me
and that storm, so I went to the door. It
was shut, and a nasty little wind blew round
the corner, cold as the grave, and ruffled
me hair. And then I heard groans. Next
thing I was back, hanging onter me old moke
for company, and the two of us in a cold
sweat. Still, I wasn’t beat, and pretty soon
I went back, I reckoned some poor cove
might camped there, lying in mortal
IT’S GOT JACKY PUZZLED, TOO.
BOSS: "My. word, Jacky, that brother of yours is the image of you!”
JACKY: “Yes, Boss; him too big-pfeller like me. When I meet that blackfeller
coming from town I wonder how I bin get back so quick.”
agony; and the lightning had showed a gap
near the fireplace, where a chap could reach
in and feel if the ashes was warm. So I
rolled up my sleeve and poked me hand in,
and them rotten old slabs seemed to clench
together, clutching at me arm, like. There
was a flash of lightning, and then a most
horrible yell. That done me. I went. Last
week I struck old Radley, who had a hor-
rible tqle to tell. He’d camped at Roger’s
hut, a case of needs must, he told me, because
he had a fit of cramps and couldn’t move
hardly. And as he lay there, groaning and
thinking of old Roger, there was a flash, and
he seen a naked, hairy arm groping and
clutching at his throat. That done him.
He left that hut believing in ghosts, all right.
And for all I know,” said Tinnope, “the
iggerant old cow believes in ’em yet!”
* * $ *
“O’Jones”: Foo Loon came to the N.Q.
Little Italy, surveyed the line of fowl-
runs just above the flood line of the river,
then deliberately established his own run
to the westward and on the river sand,
obviously in the course of the annual deluge.
Little Italy laughed at Foo Loon, and when
the Chinaman built a long, apparently use-
less fence of wire-netting that neither kept
fowls in nor out,. it laughed still more loudly.
But when the big blow came the fences of
Little Italy lasted no time, and a great
horde of fowls was propelled across the inter-
vening space an<l thrown with beating wings
up against Foo's fence. Foo had crates and
a motor truck ready and before the Italians
had sorted themselves and their relatives
out from the tumbled packing-cases that had
been their homes, be was selling the fowls
in the nearest market.
* * * *
“Flytox”: “I scored over ’im good,”
chortled Councillor Poogster. He’s 76 and
has ziffs a yard long, and the last time he
raised a ripple at a shire meeting was back
in 1896 when the chairman, Poogster’s mor-
tal enemy, said, regarding the sale of the
pound site, “I take it. gentlemen, we are
unanimous,” and Poogster said, “Well, I
ain’t unanimous for one!” But this was
a deeper matter —the bog in front of the
Mechanics' Hall, which Poogster would fain
see filled with good, expensive macadam.
“’E srz ter me,” chuckled Poogster (refer-
ring to the chairman), “‘The ’all as a ’ole
is hall right. Whatyer growlin’ „about?’
And I up an’ sez, ‘Yes, as a ’ole; but we
wanter use it as a ’all.’ ”
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: There had been a
number of grass fires in the district, and
suspicion falling on “Monkey” Brown, a
ward of the State and bond slave to old
Bill Clark and his missus, he was accused
of loosing the “red bull” on the community.
Monkey stoutly denied the charge until old
Brady, the dog-stiffener, threatened, witn
many ferocious oaths, to eviscerate him anu
tie him on an antbed unless he made a clean
breast of it. Then the terrified nipper
pleaded guilty and explained his reasons for
becoming a fire-bug. “Yeh see,” saul he.
“ol’ Clark an’"’is oF woman never gives me
nuthink ter eat ’cept bread an' rabbit stoo,
an’ corn mutton an’ punkin, an’, yer know,
I’m orful fond o’ dodgers an’ brownie. I
gin’lly gits plenty tarts an’ brownie w’en tIT
Wesleens ’as their picnic, but that’s on’y
wunst a year. They’s alwiz whips o’ sang-
widges an’ brownie at a bush fire, so w’en
I gits like I want a good feed I just
shakes a bit o’ phosphruss wot ol’ Clark
keeps in a pickle-bottle full o’ water in th’
cartshed ter pizen rabbits with, an’ sticks
it inter a lump o’ drippin’, an’ goes out after
dark an’ drops it inter some long grass. Ol’
Dick the Whaler tol’ me that's wot ’e done
when ’e wanted ter burn out some dam’
squatter wot wouldn’t give ’im rations, an’
it’s a orright lurk too, becuz th’ fire don’t
start ontil th’ sun melts th’ drippin’ off th’
pizen; then th’ phosphruss goes orf pop,
an’ away she goes, an' be that time a bloke
might be diggin’ out rabbit bUrrers or down
at th’ township.” They spared his life, but
he won’t do it again.
' sJj :Jj :*c
“Piecrust”: The new hand, a rather
stylish fellow from Oxford —so he told us s —
bought an old boomerang from Jacky
for half a crown, and was practising hard
with it. After three months he had still
never hit anything he aimed at, and was
growing restive under sundry comments.
Finally one of the hands said, “I don’t be-
lieve ho could hit a church if he was inside
it.” That fired Choom, and he wagered five
pounds he could. They waited till the coast
was clear and then sneaked into the old
chapel to decide matters. Meeting Choom
next day, I asked if he had won his fiver.
“No,” he said, choking with indignation.
“Some careless fellah left the door open!”
# * * *
“St. Val”: I was cattle-buying in Gipps-
land, and was riding along a bush road that
ran through some magnificent timber when
I came face to face with an elderly Irishman
astride a bareback draught mare which he
guided by greenhide reins fastened to a pair
of very dilapidated winkers. “Be ye a
foreign stranger?” he called out as he
brought the mare to a halt alongside me.
“No,” I replied. “I am a stranger, but not
a foreign one.” “Be ye not the foreign
stranger from Bairnsdale?” “Certainly not,”
I said. “AVhat do you want him for?” “I’m
the maintenance man that looks after this
road, and I have an appointment to meet
the foreign stranger from Bairnsdale here
at tin o’clock to get liis permission to cut
down four or five trees that are overhanging
the road, and are a minace and danger to the
thravelling public.” It dawned on me a
long while after that he was looking for
a forest ranger.
A FLAW IN THINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"I’m not a chap to moan,” said Joe, “an’ yet
it don’t seem right to me
To ’ave to wander to an’ fro while other
fellers that I see
Stay ’ome an’ get the pick o’ things an’
’ardly move a blessed ’and.
The way the Lord ’ls favors flings is pretty
’aid to understand.
"There’s Alf ’oo came from where 1 did,
an’ got the luck I didn’t get,
'E's sittin’ on five thousand quid an’ ’e’ll be
addin’ to it yet.
E ain’t no better than I am, an’ yet ’e’s
thrived while I’ve gone short.
It's not as if I cared a damn—but Fortune
reely ain’t a sport.
“She ’ands one man a ’eap o’ cash, an’
kicks ’is cobber in the neck;
She lets deservin’ fellers crash, an’ keeps the
rotters safe on deck.
You think she’s smilin’ on you, mate, an’
stake your little all, to win.
An’ up you wake, too flamin’ late, to see ’er
sneerin’, sickly grin.
“If each man got wot ’e was worth I
wouldn’t ’ave a thing to say,
But ’arf the fellers on this earth work while
the others g«t the pay.
There’s something wrong somewhere, you
know; there’s something pretty crook in
that,
When some should live in ease,” said Joe,
“while chaps as good must flog the cat.”
VICTORIA.
P. T. F.


f/r/rS'
V .\ Wf
{ >
: «
< ft
The
Wool
is
Grown
Shorn
and
Sold
year after year. Its condition, length, quality and
the market for it may vary from time to time.’ But
under all circumstances this action shows decided
advantages.
SEND THE CLIP TO -
tUMNDHCOMBE, CARSON
SELLING BROKERS. LTD.
Sydney or Brisbane.
The firm’s active, able work as salesmen is a decisive
force in producing top market values.
VICHY
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Gov ernment.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
EIGHT-DAY TOURS
from Sydney to
MT. BUFFALO
NATIONAL PARK.
“The finest holiday resort in
Australia.”
£l4/17/-
covers all travel costs and
accommodation tariff for May
and June.
Book now at the
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
Martin Place, Sydney;
or
Melbourne Tour Reservations,
Government Tourist Bureau,
Melbourne.
“Fornie” : The best way to see a country
is to walk through it; the next best is to
push a bike. I had to abandon the second
best for the best on a wet June night in a
remote part of the la*rge flat province of
Canterbury (M.L.) when a tyre went phut
and I hadn’t so much as a postage stamp with
which to make repairs. So I foot-slogged
along, drenched through and weary, with the
water squelching in my shoes, till I came
round a corner upon what used to be Tim
Ryan's pub, the Sawyers’ Arms, an ancient
weatherboard structure, long de-licensed and
deserted. Miracle of miracles, there was a
HE’D BLOW SENSE OUT OF UN.
SAMUEL JOHN POLGLASE: “Can ’ee read they notices, boay?”
THOMAS HENRY TREVARROW: “No, m’son; but if I ’ad me old trombone ’ere, I’d purty
quick play un for ’ee.”
light in every window ! The street door was
dpen and the word “Bar” was as brightly
illuminated as in days of yore when the
district boasted six sawmills. I went in. The
floor was newly sawdusted, and three big kero-
sene lamps shed their rays, but there wasn’t
a bottle on the shelves, nor, for I leaned
over to see, a cask under the counter. The
place was apparently deserted. I rapped
DAD DIDN’T WANT HIM TO GROW DESPONDENT.
DAVE: “Wot did yer show the new hand yer cream cheque for, Dad?”
DAD: "He's bin growlin a bit, an I wanter show ’im he hasn’t been worhin' fourteen
hours a day for nothin’.”
loudly, and there appeared a very, very old
woman with tears streaming down her face.
“What will you be having, sir?” she said,
her hands working nervously under a grimy
apron. “A spot of whisky,” I said, and
from beneath' the apron she produced a bottle
and a glass. I drank, and pushed a shilling
across the counter. She pushed it back.
“ ’Tis on Tim,” she said. “He’s dead upstairs.
It was his wish to die here, and the
house open and all, and customers calling
like long ago. Have ye a word for Tim,
sir?” “Peace to his soul,” I said fervently,
and went out into the night.
“Arudlim”: “Hayband” (B. 23/4/’3O) is
talking through his hat when he states that
“artesian-bore pressures are not utilised as
sources of energy on farm and .station.” Was
wool-pressing on Elmina station, 00 miles
from Cliarlcvillc, in s.-w. Queensland, in
1910. and the power used for driving 16
stands of shearing machinery was furnished
by the underground squirt connected to a
Felton wheel, and a most even and satisfac-
tory power it was. Furthermore, when the
shearing was finished for the day the juice
was switched on to a dynamo and supplied
the homestead and shearers’ library with
electric light.
* * *
“Tributer”: One of the most cherished
legends of Tahiti is the story of the dentist
and the cats. Dr. W. Williams, the tooth
artist in question,
received, in ex-
change for profes-
sional services to
the Royal family,
the atoll of Tetia-
roa, upon which
flourished thou-
sands of cocoanut
palms, and the new
owner planted thou-
sands more. But
the atoll was in-
fested with innum-
erable rats, which
consumed the
young cocoanuts as
fast as they
came. Williams
advertised for cats
at a franc each, de-
livered at his house
near Papeete Quay.
To his surprise,
over a thousand
were brought, and
practically filled his
building, so he hur-
riedly loaded them
on a ship and con-
veyed them to his
atoll. The cats
jumped ashore and
lived high until
they had cleaned
up the rats. Then,
having nothing else
to eat, they started
to eat each other.
When only a few dozen hardy warriors were
left, a truce was called and the sui-vivors
took to fishing. The fisher cats of Tetiaroa
are no famous.
* * • *
“A. Gecko”: With the usual conceit of
humans, some writers have assumed that
there is a special law of gravity for
the human race, while geckos, ants and
spiders must be content with an inferior
brand. As professor of physics at the Gecko
Uni., I have been asked to explain the
secret of our ceiling jumps which seem so
puzzling to the human mind. Our longest
jumps occupy approximately one twenty-
fifth of a second. As it is impossible to fall
more than one third of an inch in this time,
it will be obvious that even old and decrepit
geckos can hardly fail to regain their grip
on the coiling at the conclusion of the leap.
It is hard to understand why, our efforts
should call for comment, as I have frequently
observed humans making similar leaps along
a horizontal ladder in places which I believe
are called gymnasiums. In support of my
argument I may mention the sad case of
one of my most promising students, who
lost his life at the recent Uni. sports.
Endeavoring to break the long-jump record
he fell and broke all his legs.
S: Ss :J: %
“Gypsum”: In wood-chopping competi-
tions Hie axe and tin* log are almost as
important factors as
the man. It’s just a
m utter of luck
whether the log is a
tough curly one or a
nice soapy piece of
timber. And there’s
axes and a x e s.
T hong h manufac-
turers do their best to
standardise quality,
only one axe in a
thousand is a real
“clinker.” Buying an
axe is something like
buying a yearling
thoroughbred. Both
have to be tried out
before their worth can
be determined. I’ve
known ns much ns a fiver to be offered for
an axe of proved fine quality.
* * * *
“Uncle Dick”: An Alsatian dog was
recently received as a passenger in a Vic.
train, bound from the country to Melbourne.
The guard had no fear when the brute
bounded into the guard’s van, and the tip
that the alleged sheep-killer was a* “bit play-
ful” didn’t disturb him. When the train
arrived in Melbourne the young fellow in
charge of the dog sent the following wire to
the owner: “You lose. Both dog and guard
arrived alive.”
* * *
“E.S.”: I would like to know why the
family cat is not taxed and regulated. The
N.S.W. Local Government Act heaves a
brick at “pigeons and poultry on the
premises,” also the tied-up pup and the
mooching goat. But it overlooks the family
ca*t which leaves barracks at night and holds
war councils on other people’s verandahs,
yells loudly for Maria* from the housetops,
knocks over the milk jug and fights terrific
battles among the geraniums, winding up
with unrehearsed choruses on the back fence.
The pigeons and roosters and goats create
enough nuisance when they put their minds to
BRINGING HIM TO REASON
MR. MEXDOOR : “If you don’t stop annoying me with that noise
I’ll buy my wife a new hat—and then you’ll have to buy
yours one,”
it; but the bunch are not in the same
nuisance category as two hostile cats havipg
a violent disagreement on the roof, when
they thump and whack on the iron to the
accompaniment of fortissimo yows. The dog
has to pay a tax or lose his scalp, and tin 1
dog is a useful, law-abiding quadruped. If
Barker makes himself objectionable you
have only to speak to him in a loud voice
and he removes himself. But a cat is not
amenable to reason. Words are wasted on
the beast, and a bombardment of brickbats
produces only temporary relief from the riotous
behavior. It is a two-faced, deceptive crea-
ture that pretends to be a civilised animal
in daytime, and reverts to the wild, mur-
derous customs of its prehistoric ancestors
at night.
THE COURIER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“No time got to tarry,”
Said Podgee on tramp,
“Great message me carry
To far-away camp.
“You gib it tobacca,
An’ little bit tea,
For plenty me yacca,
An’ tired feller me.
“With funeral gabber,
By river an’ creek,
Me travel an’ yabber
For whole plurry week.
“For king he get sick an’
Too bad longa head;
Close up ’undred, that chicken—
Him tumble down dead !
“Now up an’ down towri,
An’ ’long billabong,
From Gooby to Gowrie
Me jog-trot along.
“No time to catch ’possum,
Or .stop longa shed,
When storm winds been toss jim
Wet boughs overhead.
“This message-stick yabber
iCorrob’ree we sing,
An' all about jabber
We make it new king.
“T’ all gunyahs of Murri,
Far scattered an’ sad,
Me make it big hurry,
For king he go bad.
“You gib it some tuckout
An’ little bit tea,
For long time my luck out
An’ tired feller me.”
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydney!
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
TRAVEL IN COMFORT
with a
VICARS ALL-WOOL
TRAVELLING RUG
These Rugs are of the same high quality as
VICARS’ WORSTED SUITINGS
Manufactured by—
JOHN VICARS & CO., LIMITED,
MARRICKVILLE, N.S.W.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
A.
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CRPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
CHEAP LIME IN VICTORIA.
"S. Quire”: Even small quantities of lime
are not to be despised in districts where it
is scarce and dear. A shrewd-young Victorian
farmer lias found a* way of getting a bit of
the .stuff cheap. The streets of two towns
in his part of the country are lit by acety-
lene gas. He has obtained the right to the
residual lime from the carbide generators,
provided he collects and transports it at liis
own expense.
The quantity amounts to .‘U tons per
annum, and the few acres already~dressed are.
showing a remarkably good result. There are
many similar districts where this residual
lime is regarded a<s a nuisance and is thrown
to waste.
The Vic. Railway Department has some
hundreds of tons of a similar product,
derived from oxyacetylenc welding, which is
available to farmers who will pay the
freight to the station nearest their holdings.
This is a good proposition, as the freight
depending on the mileage would not be more
than a few shillings per ton. The lime is
in the form of calcium -hydrate—more or less
carbonated. It may ,be spread on arable or
fallow ground immediately, but in other
cases, particularly pasture land, the material
should be allowed to mellow in the open in
shallow heaps for a couple of months prior
to spreading. There i.s always a small
amount of calcium carbide unacted upon in
the residue, and this substance burns badly.
Eor use as a pest-destroyer in market gar-
dens no other form of lime will beat it.
THE ELM AS A FODDER TREE.
“Kahbionba”: Every dry season empha-
sises the need of some permanent stand-by
of green fodder, if only to the extent of a
corrective and medicine for the main supply
of dry stuff. On river-flats a fair amount of
willows may be available, but on the higher,
drier country, where green picking is still
more needed, it is not practicable to grow
much willow. On such land—at any rate,
where the rainfall goes over 20 inches—the
elm, if set in reasonable numbers, will be
found one of the most valuable sources of
supply in summer droughts.
The foliage, besides being abundant, is well
liked by all stock, and free from the harsh
and constipating tannin so common in the
leaves of most of our trees. The elm
foliage, indeed, resembles 'the sappy, slimy
quality of the kurrajong, which sets the
standard of value among our fodder trees.
Stock seem to suffer no ill-effects from either
of these browsages, however long continued.
And the elm may be much quicker of growth
tlum the kurrajong. If graziers would make
plantations of the best varieties of elm and
for the first few years cultivate once a year,
they would soon find themselves possessed
of surprisingly valuable assets.
Such plantations, once established, would
immensely enhance the ordinary naked pro-
perty, either to keep or to sell. ‘ Hardly any
tree responds more gratefully than the elm
to a little cultivation in its earlier years.
Periodical pollarding is essential to its satis-
factory development, whereas such heavy lop-
ping is a risky process with most good
trees, including kurrajong. In the good
years, when lopping is unnecessary, every leaf
will be licked up by the stock as it falls at
the beginning of winter. Where any exten-
sive plantation may be held impracticable
much may be cheaply done by planting in
odd corners and waste spots. The elm de-
lights in broken, rocky places, with a shadv
aspect towards the south, and will flourish
wherever bracken flourishes. In those fre-
quent eyesores, washaway gullies, the elm
is very useful; once established therein it
will spread and sucker admirably, until it
fills these ugly gashes with a solid mass of
verdure.
In the matter of varieties nurserymen
offer a very poor selection. There is a very
fine evergreen species, extending from Mexico
into Kansas, which should be perfect for
our purposes, but I have never seen it
in our Botanic Gardens. To make the case
worse most of the specimens sent out from
nurseries are grafted on some cheap and
nasty Yankee variety given to inordinate
suckering. So far as my experience goesHhc
best kind obtainable in Australia is the Hunt-
ingdon elm. Anyone contemplating a planta-
tion should get some of that kind from a
reliable source and strike cuttings therefrom
himself. They strike almost as easily as
willows. For setting in rough places and the
aforesaid gullies the suckering kinds are
preferable.
the MARGO/fM-TREE.
Captain \V. R. Westland writes again from
Trincomalee, Ceylon :
J beg - to thank the hundreds of Bulletin corres-
pondents who wrote me after the publication of
my letter concerning the Margosa- tree (B. 26/2/’36),
and to assure them that seed will Ire sent to all
when it ripens, which should be about the middle
of July.
The seed falls when dead ripe, and germinates
.spontaneously on the ground. To plant it for
cultivation I think any well-prepared bed would do,
the seed being covered by, say, Jin. of soil, slightly
shaded and watered daily. In about 14 days it
should show up and commence growing. Once
started, it should go on without much difficulty
they are very hardy little plants. When about
Pencil thickness they should be planted out in per-
manent positions and protected from animals. If
desired, they could be planted out in beds till
they got to be, say, -Jin. in diameter at ground
level, and then put out. They need a little qire
during their young lives, but when once established
they appear to fight for themselves.
In planting anything over, say, -Jin. diameter
it is best to stump them at 9in. and slightly trim
the roots. They grow into very handsome trees
with the minimum of attention, and should do well
in the hot, dry sheep country of Queensland. They
will grow 12ft. to loft, high in five years, and
begin to flower then. No part of the tree is
poisonous, but no grazing animal will touch it.
The tree thrives in loamy soil with a good
admixture of sand, but does not seem to do well
on gravel or clay. The climate it prefers here is
hot, with rain nearly all falling at one time in the
year, and long droughts do not seem to affect it
much. One thing it will not stand is cold, damp
weather. I should think that a touch of frost
would be fatal.
The uses of the oil are many. In the case of
open wounds it is applied over the washed wound
with a feather, the beast being examined every
three days. Three applications are usually sufficient
to heal any ordinary wound without any other
dressing. Never have I ever seen a wound flyblown,
although one not treated by this oil would be a
reeking mass of maggots in half an hour.
The Bulletin is much obliged to Ca*ptain
Westland. The Council for Scientific and
Industrial Research has now opened up com-
munication with him with a view to obtain-
ing a supply of seed and oil for test. It
says: “There is already in Australia a tree
which may be closely related, and it is
necessary to make comparative studies to
determine this”; the tree referred to is known
in parts of N. S. Wales, Queensland and
North Australia as white cedar.
THE SHEEP-KILLING MONGREL.
“H.A.L.”: The domestic dog allowed to
run loose at night is a pest to the pastoral-
ist or farmer whose land is near a township.
The S.A. Dog Act allows any stockowner
to shoot a dog found caught worrying stock,
or any found in a paddock where sheep
have been recently worried or killed. He
is also then allowed to sue the dog’s owner
for damages. That’s right enough, but
Dogs chiefly do their murderous work at
night. If the wind is blowing the right
way the stockowner may hear the commo-
tion and go out, but it takes a good man
to get close enough to a dog at night to
shoot it. If a fluke comes off and the
dog is killed, in nine cases out of ten it
will be found to be without a collar and
disc. Tracing its owner is then difficult;
sheeting the offence home to his hound
almost impossible.
One South Aus. sheepman chased a dog,
the killer of a lot of stud lambs, to its
owner’s gate and shot it. The owner sued
him for £lOO, and got it. A pack of mon-
grels broke into the grounds of the Waite
Institute, near Adelaide, and slaughtered
scores of the sheep kept for nutrition tests.
Some of these brutes were afterwards
poisoned, but not a single owner could be
traced. Another lot of mongrels killed a
stud ram and 24 valuable ewes belonging
to a breeder in the Adelaide hills. I have
collected a score of similar complaints from
all over South Aus. Every complainant
insists that this sheep-slaughter would cease
if it. were made compulsory for every owner
of a dog to keep it on the chain from
sunset to sunrise. The economic value
of 90 p.c. of dogs is nil, but these days we
can’t afford to lose a single ewe.
POTATO ONIONS.
“Noah Praid”: Now is the time to plant
potato onions, and there is no more lucra-
tive crop for the closer-settlement man. The
best soil is a light sandy loam, but they may
be grown successfully in any type of soil
except heavy clays. The most suitable
climate is one with a rajjifall about 20iu.
which provides good spring rains and •an
occasional shower in the summer—assuming,
of course, that irrigation is not available.
If it is, water must be applied sparingly
after the spring, as the bulbs are inclined
to burst with excess- moisture.
You must make sure that the bulbs pur-
chased are true to name; sometimes shallots
are supplied under the name of potato onions.
A potato onion always has a portion of the
old tuber in the shape of a hard, horn-like
shell adhering to the root end, whereas shal-
lots show rootlets only. Type also is a
guide, as the potato onion favors the brown
Spanish and the shallot follows the Globe
variety.
Plant in well-tilled soil in rows loin apart,
with the bulbs a foot apart in the rows.
Take care to just cover the bulb with soil,
and use lcwt. of super, to the acre, dibbled
in with the bulbs. In spring topdress the
plants with 4cwt. of blood and bone to the
acre. In the subsequent tillage operations,
which should be intense, the “pipes” (leaves)
are not broken any more than necessary.
In summer, usually January, when the
plants have died down, .scuffle the bulbs out
and allow them to bleach for a few days
in the sun; then top and tail and market.
A good plan is to select the largest bulbs
for the next season’s planting. Large bulbs
produce the best yield, and the trade does
not like samples containing too many large
bulbs. Early and very date sowings are
dangerous, in that the bulbs do not sub-
divide but grow into single bulbs like Brown
Spanish; particularly is this so when grown
in the heavier types of soils. A fair yield
is three to four tons per acre, and the crop
meets with a ready sale at from £4O to £6O
per ton. For the out-back garden there is
nothing better. Potato onions arc easily
grown—no seed trouble—and compete with
the best Brown Spanish as keepers and
eaters.
SOW FOR SPRING PEAS.
“Cowcatcher”: Peas sown now in most
parts of south-eastern Australia will not
flower until the frosts are finished with and
should therefore yield heavily in the early
spring. The ground must be ploughed
deeply. Peas respond to sound cultivation ;
all cultural operations must be shallow.
I sow; in double rows about 12 inches
apart with four feet between these —ample
room for the scuppler to run up and down.
Seed-dropping by hand is easily acquired,
and is much quicker than by machine, and
peas can stand fairly thick sowing.
Basic super, below the seed and after-
wards worked in is about the best fertiliser
for spring crops, but it must not come into
contact with the seed.
It is now known that most of the pea
diseases so prevalent have come here with
imported seed; therefore the grower should
save his own if possible. If not, it is never
difficult to procure good stuff iff N.S.W.
from the tableland growers.
YOUR OWN TOMATO SEED.
“Eleven”: Select medium-sized fruit of
good shape from the third or fourth bunch,
the vine being free from disease and heavy
yielding. Cut the tomatoes in halves horizon-
tally and squeeze juice and seed into a con-
tainer. Allow this to stand for two days,
but do not let it over-ferment, as this will
cause germination. When a scum forms,
apply water and agitate, finally allowing the
seed to settle.
Pour off the water and repeat until it is
quite clear; then dry the seed in a towel
and expose to the air and sun for a day or so.
Keep in an air-tight tin in a dry place and
it will be good for years.
SCALE IN CITRUS.
“7346”: Coastal districts have many cit-
rus parasites to combat, but the irrigation
areas in N.S.W., Vic. and South Aus., which
produce most of our choice citrus fruits, have
practically only one serious insect enemy—
red scale. The earlier attempts at control
of this pest were by spraying with miscible
oils in emulsion and by fumigation under
tents with cyanide gas. Both proved costly,
in some cases dangerous, and in all ineffective.
A strong application by either method gener-
ally burnt foliage and fruit badly. Never-
theless both spray and fumigation investi-
gators kept on working, and new types of
oils and gas were developed. A German
chemist retained by the Mussolini Govern-
ment advanced the theory that some of the
insects were able to “close down” or, so to
speak, put their masks on before the gas
reached its full intensity, and after the
removal of the fumigation tents recovered
and carried on the bad work. He conducted
experiments with ff cyanide compound which,
when released by a blower under the tents,
produced a gas that hit the scale at full
intensity ; result, dead scale.
At least two proprietary lines of this
cyanide compound are now on the Australian
market in briquette form. When the tent is
iii position over the tree the circumference
and ground-to-ground (over the top) meas-
urements are quickly made and a simple
chart indicates the number of briquettes to
be placed in the blower. This by the pres-
sure of a piston and the turning of a handle
for a few seconds, grinds the briquettes and
blows the gas-forming powder into the tent
at a strength calculated to kill the scale
without damage to the tree. Three men with
about 20 sheets or tents can treat over 100
large trees in a shift, the work being usually
carried out at night; absence of wind and
comparatively mild temperatures arc neces-
sary.
With any kind of spray the difficulty
amongst large trees is to make satisfactory
contact on both sides of every loaf on every
tree. Obviously unless this is done some
scale may be missed, which means another
spraying at an early date. On the other hand
one thorough fumigation should suffice for
at least two years. On small trees, however,
where every leaf can be easily covered, the
latest spray oils are economical, having
regard to all costs.
CONTROLLING CODLIN-MOTII.
"Disc Harrow”: Government tests con-
ducted at Temple, stowe (Vic.) have afforded
some practical information on this subject.
Separate rows of trees were allotted to
different spray manufacturers, who were
allowed to spray as they considered neces-
sary. All Well-known brands proved efficient.
Some trees received six applications and the
remainder live. Ordinary spraying practice
was followed, with the exception that slighth
stronger mixtures and higher pressures than
some growers permit themselves were used,
and proved themselves worth, while. The
minimum pressure to force the foliage aside
is reckoned at 3251 b., and the resultant crops
averaged under one per cent, of grubby fruit.
The first or calyx spray was 51b. of
arsenate of lead paste, or 241 b. of powder, to
80 gallons of water. Later sprays at intervals
of three weeks consisted of either arsenate
alone or in conjunction, with two gallons of
emulsified oil to each vat. The two methods
showed no difference in control, but the
oiled fruit was far superior in appearance,
gloss and color.
A further investigation was made into the
value of moth lures, these being studied with
temperature records. The lures consisted of
1 part molasses to 1(5 parts water, a table-
spoon of a*pple juice being added to each
gallon of mixture. The tins were changed
every 10 days, and the number of moths
caught counted daily. A thermometer sus-
pended in the middle of the patch showed
that b.y far the greatest number of pests
were on the wing when the temperature
exceeded 60 degrees. Over 1000 moths were
caught in six tins during the experiment,
and $s all females were thus prevented from
laying, the practice is worth while. It also
indicates the movements of broods and gives
a guide for spraying.
The chief causes of loss by cod l in-motli
seem to be lack of thoroughness, due to
human or mechanical faults or the employ-
ment of worn-out pumps and ill-judged times
of spraying. The inside of the tree needs
just a*s much attention as the outer branches,
and scientific pruning to bring the fruit
in close to the leaders saves spray and makes
for efficiency. Good work in the front line
should, however, be supplemented by the
destruction of fallen fruit and the periodical
examination of possible harbors, such as
borer bands and beetle traps.
TURKEYS ON THE FARM.
“G.V.D.”: The rearing of turkeys may be
made an interesting and profitable addition to
many farms, especially in districts where
thistles grow a*nd lucerne paddocks are avail-
able. In such cases they will thrive and be
almost self supporting, requiring only a little
grain in the evenings. If they are not regularly
fed, they are apt to develop the habit of
roosting in the bush.
The bronze is the breed most favored in
Australia. Bronze cocks' weigh up to 301 b.,
but where the hens a*re only small it is not
advisable to use gobblers weighing over 251 b.
On the other hand, gobblers under 171 b. should
not be kept for breeding purposes. Very
small hens should also be sold. White
Hollands also deserve attention. They are
good layers and are not such ‘ramblers as
the- bronze.
Turkeys resent confinement and will not
do well unless allowed a fair amount of
freedom. If the eggs are taken as laid, they
will sometimes lay three clutches in the
season—about 15 eggs in the first clutch.
As a rule, the hens are x*eliable sitters, pro-
vided they are protected from rain, wind
and sun, and interfered with as little as
possible. When the young ones have hatched
out, the mother should be shut in a dry
pen with them for a week or so, otherwise
she will ramble and run the little ones off
their legs. They require no food for at least
36 hours after hatching. Oatmeal is best to
staat them on.
Where foxes are bad, it is necessary to
have a netting enclosure round the house
(Continued on page 25.)


Matching smartness with
reliability of performance
m
Lots of cars look
smart! The new
Buick, for example,
is particularly attrac-
tive ... as easy to look at as
to ride in ... a little ahead, in
beauty, of others in its price
class.
The amazing “swing to Buick”
that the 1930 model brought
about had its origin in more than
mere beauty. The new Buick’s
strikingly attractive appearance is
matched by RELIABILITY OF
PERFORMANCE ... a day-in-
day-out record of smooth, depen-
dable service . . . positive starting
. . . positive braking
. . . ease of handling
. . . that is winning
the hearts of Aus-
tralian motorists to an astounding
degree. Sales records of previous
Buicks are left far behind.
You already have a preference
of Buick. Take a trial run —
that will more than convince you
that your preference is based on
a sound judgment of fine car
quality and value.
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR.
Convenient payments can be arranged on the liberal G.M.A.C. Terms Plan.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
‘Distributors:
Metropolitan Motors, Ltd.,
Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
Boyd Edkins, Ltd.
109 Phillip Street,
Sydney.
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
I 14 Franklin Street,
Melbourne.
City Motors, Ltd.,
95 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
Oldfield Motors,
Munster House,
Murray Street, Perth.
GENERAL MOTORS (Australia) Pty. Ltd., Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne,. Adelaide, Perth.
8U1CK.1930
It's a Qeneral Motors Car -
look inside and note the difference


tm
sS/
The world § ecciiciny
all-purpose valve
SPECIFICATIONS:
Fil. Volts . . . . 4.0 max.
Fil Current . . . . 0.1 amp.
Plate Volts . . . . 150 max.
Amp. Factor 15
Impedance . . 8,500 ohms
Normal Slope, 1.77 ma/volts
Equivs A 409, A 415
am
■tit***
IL
IO
In every way L4lO costs
you less. It is lower in price.
It consumes only one-tenth
of an ampere and makes
your "B” Battery last longer. The filament
is coated in a special manner, thus prolonging
its life to an appreciable extent. You can
use L4lO in any 4-volt battery-operated set
for Radio frequency amplification, as a
detector, or in the first audio stage. Your
dealer can advise you which Osram Valve
you need—he knows all the equivalents. If
he should not have in stock the Osram
Valve you need, it will be sent direct, safe
delivery guaranteed. The “Osram Valve
Guide”—a useful little book detailing all
Osram Valves —is free for the asking.
<«>
Made in England
Advertisement of the British General Electric Co. Ltd.
Head Office & Public Showrooms: Magnet House, 104-114 Clarence St., Sydney.
Branch Offices and Public Showrooms at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth,
Newcastle and N.Z. cities. Sole Agencies at Brisbane and Hobart.
Garages equipped with
TecalemiT
LUBRICATING APPARATUS
render the best service to Car Owners by
keeping cars “youthful” and eliminating
the cause of 80 per cent, of repairs.
Particulars from
TECALEMIT SERVICE STATIONS:
ATKINS (W.A.), LTD. Hay Street. PERTH
CORNELL, LTD. 122 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD. - Bateman Street, MELBOURNE
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD. Pitt Street, SYDNEY
MARTIN WILSON BROS., LTD., 299 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE
Factory Representative - - - - Mr. James Thornell, 312 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
TECALEMIT, LTD. Mitre House, Scrubbs Lane, LONDON, N.W.10
/ N
fr\ "
i.....
1 ffiliZK
■ •«.-
nS<B i i i
'S
s?
No. 101 A
Those who have any measuring or levelling to do, or who are
often engaged in planting, fencing, or making drains, dams,
foundations, etc., should have a Starrett Levelling Instrument.
Contractors and Builders also find it very useful. It is inexpensive,
extremely easy and simple to use, and is becoming more popular
every week because of its great general utility. Height can be
altered from 2ft. 6in. to 4ft. 6in. The whole instrument is built
for solid, reliable service. A book of instructions, giving examples
of work which can be done, is supplied with each instrument. Price,
75 /•
The
Instrument
of a Hundred Uses
SEYMOUR
EARTH AUGERS
The old methods of posthole
digging are laborious—a n d
costly. The “SEYMOUR”
Posthole Digger is made solely
for the purpose of speeding up
the digging of postholes. It
pays for itself on the first few
holes. We have sold these to
satisfied buyers all over Aus-
tralia.
3in. 4in. sin.
9/6 9/6 9/6
6in. 7in. Bin.
9/6 10/3 11/3
9in. 1 Oin.
12/6 13/- each
Send for our
Latest Catalog.
Free on re-
quest.
f,
to
MACSON EARTH SCOOPS
*
1
m
mrn
The Macson Scoop enters ploughed or virgin soil readily, cuts
it away quickly and cleanly, and is extremely light on the horse.
Save the hard work and the waste of time occasioned by slower
methods. Your “Macson” Scoop will quickly pay for itself. The
body is pressed COLD from a solid plate of hardened steel, thus
avoiding the weak corners sometimes occurring in hot pressed
plates. Fitted with steel runners and detachable handles.
3 cub. ft.
57/6
5 cub. ft.
62/6
7 cub. ft.
67/6
10 cub. ft.
110/-
C
Proprietary Limited
582-592 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
51-65 Bathurst Street, Sydney. 116-130 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
532 Murray Street, Perth.


§ §H
Hi
m
H
■
1 m
For hard wear and
rough weather
There’s double strength in the
Abbey Cossack. Its sole is
twice the average thickness. Its
upper is lined completely with
soft leather. The tongue
fastens to the sides. . . .exclud-
ing grass seeds and dust and
acting as a pad to the foot.
And, for all its ruggedness, the
Abbey Cossack is surprisingly
flexible in wear. It fits with
greater comfort, t 00.... the
upper is adapted specially to
the natural arch of the instep.
ORDER BY POST
Same sole leather used in all styles,
but the higher-priced tan boot has
an upper of special calf. Order,
also, the correct Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy new cleaning outfits (2/6
complete).
Tan Willow Calf, 46/6 & 41/6
Black Box Calf . . . . 39/6
Sporting catalogue post free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
FPL 177
fd
Little Giant
Sash Support
A set for any size window
can be sent anywhere
for 5/-, post paid. So
strong, two (one on each
sash) will support a
pair of sash weighing
161 b., or four a pair of
sash weighing 321 b.
Use Solid Frames,
stronger and less costly.
The Old
Window Prop
may be good enough
for the humpy,
but it’s out of place in the modern
country home. It is untidy, unsafe
and unnecessary.
No matter how far out back .you may live,
you can now have the comfort and convenience
of box-frame (pulley and cord) windows, with-
out the expense, freight, difficulty of instal-
lation, or cost and trouble of renewal.
And no matter how near town your home,
it will pay you better to specify, instead of the
clumsy and perishable cords and weights, the
“Little Giant Sash Support.”
Fit the LITTLE GIANT yourself
with a screwdriver.
Write for particulars to the
AUSTRAL WINDOW CO.,
10 Bligh Street, Sydney.
Green
Sayers
$«
Remedy
Seal
rax ALL STOMACH WORMS
BLACK DISEASE & FLUKE
The One Remedy Cures All.
Contains lcc. Carbon Tetrachloride per See. dose.
900 doses to the gallon; about five sheep treated
for about one penny.
INTER-STATE AGENTS:
New Zealand Loan and Merc. Agency, Rockhampton
N. S. Pixley Brisbane
Dalgety & Co Melbourne
Gollin & Co Adelaide
Collin & Co Perth
’King Lawless, Ltd Auckland, N.Z.
Manufactured by
SAYERS, ALLPORT PROP., LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Glass and Metal Syringes, holding scc. and acting as
Measure and Trenching Syringe, 10/6, post free.
Chandler
Ringlock Fencing
RINGLOCK FENCING.
D. & W. Chandler Ltd. pioneered
the manufacture of Ringlock Fenc-
ing in Australia, and this has now
superseded all other forms of farm-
fencing. Our Chandler Ringlock
Fencing is recognised as the strong-
est fencing on the market.
Chandler Ringlock Fencing is a
wonderful improvement on the ordi-
nary five- or six-line fence, as it
is a combination of droppers and
laterals. All the wires are crimped,
and the special Ringlock Knot is
formed around the cross wires, thus
making them absolutely non-slip-
pable. The fence is, therefore,
sheep- and cattle-proof.
Style RLS is an ideal sheep or farm
fence. The droppers are 12in.
apart. Five lines spaced from the
bottom 5,6, 7 and 8 inches apart
to a height of 26in. The top and
bottom wires are 10-gauge; the
three other laterals, droppers and
all ringlock knots are 12-gauge gal-
vanised-wire.
Prices:—
per chain for 5-chain
rolls.
£l9/15/-
per mile.
Special heavy Chandler Fencing (10-gauge
throughout!. Prices for RLS are 6/3 per
chain for 5-chain rolls, or £22 per mile.
NOTE.—The prices quoted are
strictly cash with order.
We also stock Waratah “Hinged-
joint” Fencing. Send for particulars.
Send for list of the new REDUCED
Prices of other styles.
Manufactured at their Fence and Gate
Factory, Greeves Street, Fitzroy, by
D.§W. CHANDLER LTD.
FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY.
AND AT WARRNAMBOOL, BENDIGO.
HORSIIAM, BALLARAT AND PORT-
LAND.
X
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children, with £lOOO ? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
J /AU)HD^o^
,v*-«V
You owe it to yourself to collect the
interest that is your due.
Form that most profitable of all habits—-
the bank hab.t-by mak.ng regular deposits
m the Primary Producers Bank, where
interest is paid on all monies.
Have a Bank Account — Keep it
Growing.
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS BANK
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Head Office: 1/ iviamn Place, Svdney.
Branches througnout the
Commonwealth and at London.
MARCH
FEBRUARY
JANUARY
so that the turkeys may be shut up at night.
House and roosting-places must, of course, be
kept clean. The disease which causes most
concern to breeders is known as blackhead.
Preventive measures adopted are the rearing
of the young ones on fresh ground each year
and the use of ipecacuanha wine in their
drinking water, a teaspoon to a* quart. For
adult birds affected with blackhead, the
ipecacuanha-wine treatment is also employed.
CEMENTING A GALVANISED-IRON
TANK.
“Fysh” : If the tank is dilapidated or out
of shape, get the sides as erect as possible.
Wind two or three turns of wire near the
top and bottom and brace it tightly by strain-
ing. Place 2in. netting round the inside and
fasten it at intervals with tie-wire, first
punching holes in the tank. Have these
close, so that the netting does not bulge
Treat the bottom in the same manner.
Use one part of cement with three parts
of clean sa<nd, free from stones. Mix it
well while dry; then moisten and mix again
till it is an even mass, slightly sloppy. Do
the bottom of the tank first, about three
inches deep, having first put a small piece of
piping over the tank outlet so that the
cement does not block it. Smooth the
bottom off with a trowel or board and let it
set. Next day do the sides with a* stiller
mixture. Lay it on with a trowel, working
it well in through the netting and covering
this over. • Smooth with' the trowel while
working. A better job is made by doing the
outside too, but this is not absolutely neces-
sary.
A bag and a half of cement and five
bags of sand are about right for a 1000-
ga«llon tank, inside only. If the job is
well done you won’t be troubled with water
from the bore or well eating your tank away.
SUBSIDER MUD AS A FERTILISER.
“C.C.S.”: Subsider mud, the residue from
the clarification process in sugar-mills, is
not fully recognised for its fertiliser value.
This liquid mud, which forms approximately
five gallons to every ton of cane, is the bug-
bear of the mill manager’s life. In the
average North Queensland mill about 7000
gallons of it is produced per day, and in
many cases the whole is run to waste.
Yet analyses of several samples of the
solids showed on an average 12 per cent,
of lime, 2 per cent, of nitrogen, 3 per cent,
of phosphoric acid and £ per cent, of potash,
or 2691 b. of lime, 451 b. of nitrogen, 671 b. of
phosphoric acid and 111 b. of potash per ton
of solids. The immediate agricultural value
of the plant nutrients in the mud would
depend upon their availability. Be this what
it may, it is interesting, for those who care,
to figure the cost of the lime, nitrogen,
phosphoric acid and potash if purchased on
the market.
All that is necessary to convey the free-
flowing mud from the mill to the cane pad-
dock is a convenient size tank on a lorry
or dray. The application of 17 tons of mud
of 70 per cent, moisture would be approxi-
mately 5 tons of solids per acre. These
solids subsequently break up into fine pieces
and get mixed with the soil and in a short
time disappear from sight.
Considered as a principle in agriculture,
everything produced from the soil, except the
commodity marketed, should be returned to
the soil. As regards the material entering
the sugar-mill, one authority says: “Eighty
per cent, of the phosphoric acid appears
in the subsider mud. Of the nitrogen, 60
per cent, is accounted for in the mud. Of
the lime, the mud contains 50 per cent,
more than is introduced with the cane.”
Farm Accounts.
Last week’s contribution completed the
series. Farmers who have kept the articles
can now paste them in an exercise-book,
and thus have them in handy form for refer-
ence purposes.
The beginner may possibly strike some
phase of his operations that to him does not
appear to fit in with the illustrations and
examples given in the course. Those who
are in doubt on any point at all are invited
to communicate with The Man on the Land
Department.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Cause of rickets in pigs? (2) Cure?
(3) Is it necessary to build new sties to pre-
vent it? Present sties are in good order
and high and dry. —6o7B. _
(1) Deficiency of calcium salts or vita-
mines in the food, insufficient food, lack
of exercise, insufficient sunlight, damp and
badly-ventilated sheds and yards, and in-
breeding are predisposing factors. (2) Free
exercise in open air under good hygienic and
sanitary conditions; the feeding of good
nutritious diet, containing a well-balanced
ration rich in fats, proteins, carbohydrates
and minerals, and a ration of sterilised
bone meal (2 tablespoons) a*nd cod-liver
oil (I tablespoon) iu feed daily. (3) Not
if the present ones are well ventilated, with
plenty of sunlight.
I have a young draught-horse with a
growth in the inside corner of one eye. This
growth was first noticed last summer, and
has grown in that time. In appearance it is
like a tiny cauliflower hut of a dark-reddish
color. A ny slight abrasion or knock brings
blood. What is it, and what is the cure 9 '—
6284. _
It is a cancer, and can only be removed
surgically. Whether such treatment is suc-
cessful depends upon the extent to which
the surrounding tissues arc involved. Con-
sult a vet.
Early this season my glasshouse tomatoes
developed a browning of the stems and a
slight browning of patches of the leaf sur-
faces; the leaves also wilted to some extent.
The lower part of the plants became totally
defoliated, and blossoms and growing fruits
were shed. The older fruit ripened pre-
maturely. The fruit on badly-infested plants
lost its shininess and became rough and rust
colored What was ■ wrong and what’s the
remedy? —63Bl.
Symptoms point to attack by the tomato
mite, which is responsible for a condition fre-
quently referred to by growers as rust. Use
a spray of lime-sulphur (one gallon to 80 gal-
lons of water) or atomic sulphur (lib. to
121 gallons of water). At least a week
should elapse after the application of the
lime-sulphur before spraying with Bordeaux
mixture.
The combs of my hens and roosters are
very pale and bear an eruption of black-
heads. Disease and cure? —62B3.
It is chicken-pox. Sulphur should be mixed
in the morning mash at the rate of loz. for
'm every third day for three weeks.
The following three weeks Epsom salts
should be given every third <ia*y at the rate
of loz. to each gallon of drinking water.
This treatment should be continued each
alternate three weeks from January to April.
Ihe warts on the birds should be painted
with iodine, or if the sores are near the
eyes common laundry blue should be applied.
(1) Where in N.B.W. can I get water
from a well analysed? (2) What quantity
necessary? (3) Best way of sending ? —
(1) F. L. Watt, Hamilton-street, or Dixon
and Byrn, Reiby-la*ne, both Sydney, would
undertake the work. (2) One quart in ordin-
ary cases. (3) In a clean bottle carefully
packed to avoid breakage in transit and
labelled to facilitate identification. The
N.S.W. Agricultural Department undertakes
examination of and furnish's advice on
water gratis for bona-fide farmers.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“L.6M.”: You can cure girth-galls on
saddle-horses in this fashion. When start-
ing off in the morning rub sore and girth
freely with good olive oil, and fasten girth
firmly (but not tightly) in position over the
sore; then fasten surcingle tightly over the
top of the girth. In three or four days the
horse should be all right.
“Rotom”: When offered a working trial
with a grass-fed _ horse, insist on having the
test after the animal has had a week or two
on hard feed. Some horses staunch enough
on grass feed become the rankest of jibs
when changed over to chaff and corn.
“Odd Job”: One of the best investments
for the winter is a water-tight tarpaulin for
the tractor, or else a made cover to fit over
all vital parts. It will save pounds in
starting time and attention to the engine.
“R.G.”: Two “don’ts” for newchums start-
ing in the Strawberry-valeting business.
Don’t buy cheap tin milk-buckets; a good
two-gallon steel bucket will last four or five
times as long and never crack around the
rim. And don’t buy a small separator if
you are starting with, say, 20 cows and
intending to increase to 40 in a couple of
years; get a 100-gallon-per-hour machine. It
will be cheaper than buying a small and
then a large one, as the life of a separator,
with reasonable care, is at least 15 years.
“Emel”: One way of inducing a ewe whose
lamb has died to adopt a motherless one is
to cover the orphan with the dead lamb’s
skin; but there are other methods. The
trick can be turned by penning lamb and ewe
together, sprinkling the lamb with kerosene
and wiping the ewe’s nostrils and lips with
the oil. Simpler still is the old device of
squirting the ewe’s milk on the lamb’s head.
“Pomona”: Carpet grass has reclaimed
acres of poor sandy ridges and swampy flats
in the coastal districts of South Queensland.
It will eradicate bracken on poor soil, and
is the only useful grass that will grow in
green tea-tree country. The analysis is about
the same as summer grass, but not as good
as that of paspalum or Rhodes grass.
“Disc Harrow” : Don’t pass judgment too
hastily on sick fruit trees. I had a patch
of Jonathans on stiff, low-lying soil, a*nd in
spite of frequent limings and applications
of fertiliser they were dying. One winter
1 decided on a kill-or-cure policy, and not
thinking they were worth careful treatment
cut them back severely with an axe. They
are now growing vigorously, and I am left
wishing I had done the job properly with a
saw.
“Poker” : Don’t bother about bringing the
pumpkins and marrows inside yet; let them
stand out in the open where the frosts can
get at them. It will harden them and make
them last longer.
“E.H.M.”: Hares are beggars for young
beans. To provide against their depreda-
tions, plant two or three rows of corn around
the piece of ground intended for beans; when
the corn is up plant the bean seed. The
hares prefer the corn, and this will feed
them until the beans are too mature for
their taste.
“Hortup”: The best way of curing roup
in fowls is to give them a bread pill dipped
in oil of linseed three times a day until
relieved.
‘‘Tagen”: A method of throwing quiet
cattle. Place a running noose over hor s
with rope through loop at side of head.
Throw end of rope across shoulders, under
chest close to forelegs, then bring up
and loop it, from front, through rope going
over shoulders, arranging it so that loop
is a bit above the elbow. Take rope to rear
and repeat, passing it over loins and under
belly close to hind legs: loop through at
same height as one on shoulder, and steadily
pull from the rear. The beast will slowly roll
on side opposite loops, and will remain quiet
so long as pressure is kept on rope. By
tying to a post and keeping a steady strain
I have marked a three-year-old bull single-
handed. To release easily, arrange knot on
running noose round horns, so that it will
come undone without trouble. If rope is
removed from head and loosened over shoul-
ders the beast will soon free itself from
tangles.
“Fysh”: A handy gadget on the farm is
a rope-maker, and you can fix one up your-
self. Get a piece of 2in. x 4in. 2ft. long.
Run through it flatwise three pieces of
5-16th-inch rod, and on each bend a hook at
one end and a handle at the other. Con-
nect handles with a strip of board ready
bored, so that it will turn three handles at
once. Select a stout post and fasten a
strong hook to it. Run several pieces of binder-
twine from this hook to each of the three hooks
on machine; the larger the number of strands
the stronger your rope will be. Set a three-
notched board on the strands near the single
hook to prevent tangling; slowlv turn the
board on handle? till strands are well twisted-
then slide the notched board slowly toward
the machine, and the rope will twist itself


Our Service Department
This page is sot apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell’ 5, or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Two Bulletin black-and-white artists want
students for class in drawing for reproduction in
connection with sketch club now’ being formed in
Sydney.—637l.
Orehardist, S.A., married, beaten by drought,
wants position as working manager, orchard or
market garden, anywhere. Wide exp.—6373.
Band conductor, ' N.S.W., wants band, city or
country. Australian and M.L. refs: —6399.
Young man, pastoral, timber and mining exp.,
wants work on piece or bonus. Go anywhere.—639s.
Youth (19), Tas., wants temporary job on main-
land town or country, while taking radio course
—6367.
Carpenter (29), painting,, gardening, clerical and
country store exp., wants job anywhere. Refs. —6370.
Civil engineer (33), 8.5e.8.E., nine years’ exp.
mainly in construction work, wants position. Manu-
facturing firm preferred.—64l6.
Old-age pensioner, -N.S.W., wants work in country,
painting or' any duties. Refs.—6434.
loung man (19), Hawkesbury Ag. Dip., general
ag. exp., wants job on station or farm. Refs. —6432.
Butcher (37), N.S.W., married, two children 14
and 17, all-round exp., including management, wants
job, anywhere. Refs.—646B.
To buy Moore and Betche’s “Flora of N.S.W.”
(1893), Lucas and Le Souef’s “Animals of Australia”
(1909), and Hassall’s “In Old Australia” (1902).
—6453.
To buy: gramophone records, “God Save Ireland”
and “The Irish Jaunting Car.” —6484.
To buy Wheatley’s “Pepys” (9 vol.), and Burton’s
“Arabian -Nights” (17 vol.), or exchange Casanova
“Memoirs” and cash. —6483.
To buy second-hand war b00k5.—6474.
To buy “The Ox,” by Steele.—6437.
To buy “Art in Australia” and similar publica-
tions.—-6372.
To buy copy of “Bulletin Reciter,” also wanted
words of “Cohen at the Telephone.”—6374.
Whereabouts of Norman Edwards, last heard of at
Livingston-road, Petersham, Sydney. Mother asks
—6423.
Information Sought.
(1) Should I register with the American
Consul in Brisbane under the quota system,
how long would it take before I would be
to migrate to the United States?
(2) Would 1 under any circumstances be
allowed to enter before it was my turn
under the quota system? If so, how long
would it be before I would have to leave the
country? (3) llow long must a foreigner
be resident in the States before he can be-
come a naturalised American citizen? (4)
Does the quota system apply generally to the
Commonwealth , or has each Staff e a specified
number? (5) If a man registers under the
quota is his wife included? (6) Can an
American citizen take his, foreign-born wife
into the States without reference to the
quota? —sB7l.
(1) Can't say. At present there are regis-
tered annually in Australian American Con-
sulates approximately 14 times the number
of - persons who may receive visas. (2)
Non-immigrant visa*s can be issued by
American Consuls to persons who can prove
that they do not intend to reside per-
manently in the U.S. There are no restric-
tions on the number of visas given under this
provision. The usual period is six months, but
extensions are grahted for sufficient reasons.
(•») Five years. (4) To the Commonwealth
a*s a whole. (5) Yes, if proof is given con-
cerning family status. (6) Yes, if a petition
made by her husband in her behalf at an
American Consulate receives the approval
of the U.S. Dept, of Labor.
Cl) What is the correct way to address
a Judge of the Supreme or District Court
(not a knight) in conversation outside
court? (2) When is an ex-member of the
A.I.F. strictly entitled to use his military
rank or decorations in civil life? (3) What
is the correct way of addressing a letter
to an ex-officer of the A. I IF. who is a V.C?
(41 What is the correct way of addressing a
letter or referring in a formal document to a
solicitor who is a 8.A., or to a. Uni. graduate
who is also an ex-officer of the A.I.F. entitled
lo~a military decoration for personal bravery?
(5) Is it correct to write a letter to or refer
to a person holding a University degree as
“Mr. John Smith, 8.A.?” —615)0.
(_1) “Sir,” or “Judge." (2) He lost his
military rank when he was discharged. He is
entitled to wear his decorations whenever he
pleases, but custom enjoins that such display
should be reseryed for official occasions. (3)
It is not necessary nor usual to enumerate his
former military rank unless he uses it himself,
nor in ordinary correspondence to take cog :
nisance of his decoration. (4) A solicitor’s
Uni. degree need not be mentioned, nor his
former military rank, lior his decorations.
(5) It would be correct enough, but not
usual in ordinary correspondence.
(1) Are ex-imperial soldiers eligible to
participate in land settlement grants in Vic.?
(2) Address where applications should be
made? (3) Are --ex-imperial soldiers eligible
under the Aust. Soldiers’ Repatriation Act
to secure loans for establishing a business?
- —3009.
(1) At the discretion of the‘Minister for
Lands the definition of a discharged soldier
under the Returned Soldiers’ Settlement Act
can be extended to cover applications by
ex-imperial or other dominions ex-soldiers.
At present, the extension of this privilege is
in abeyance, with no indication as to when
the closure will be lifted. (2) Victorian
Closer Settlement Board, Lands Dept., Mel-
bourne. (3) Not unless he resided in Aus-
tralia for 12 months immediately preceding
Aug. 4, 1914. Also ho must be married and
incapacitated to the extent of being unable to
engage in liis usual occupation, and unsuit-
able for vocational training in substitution
thereof; or must prove that immediately prior
to enlistment he was dependent for his
living upon a business owned and conducted
by him and disposed of in order to enlist.
Application must be lodged within 12 months
after the date of applicant’s discharge from
the forces.
I have a trotting-horse which last Septem-
ber slipped in a yard and injured the elbow
behind the foreleg. It swelled, and the horse
went too lame to work. The place was blis-
tered and in a few days the horse teas appa-
rently recovered. lie has been worked for
the last four months. A. fortnight ago he
turned suddenly, and evidently dislocated
something in the elbow or shoulder, and was
for the time being too lame to move. He
stood pawing: the air for a time, but 10
minutes afterwards showed no signs of lame-
ness. This has happened several times since,
when the horse has made a sudden movement.
In each case a few minutes afterwards he
has completely recovered. There is a small,
hard swelling on the point of the elbow.
Trotting seems to cause no ill effects, but
only light exercise has been given. What
treatment do you suggest? —6ls4.
Dislocation of elbow or shoulder joint is
uncommon. The symptoms point to trouble
of. the nerve in the vicinity of the elbow
joint. There may be sudden pressure on
the nerve, accounting for the intermittent
attacks of lameness. Hose the leg once dally
for about 20 minutes, dry, and then thor-
oughly massage elbow joint and forearm.
Does the change of the moon affect the
rainfall or weather? If not, what is the
basis of the popular belief that it does ? —
6316.
Certain local coastal winds may be attri-
buted to the rise and fall of tides which
are governed by the moon, but otherwise re-
search has shown that the moon has no
effect on weather. The heat coming from the
moon is insignificant and amounts to less
than one-millionth part of that received from
the sun. The belief that changes of the
moon affect the weather, although still
held by many people, is no longer
general. Probably it is based on the fact
tnat certain periodic weather changes some-
times coincide with the phases of the moon.
Unimproved capital value and improved
capital value of land, apart from railways
and tramways, in various Aus. States? Also,
percentage of unimproved on improved capi-
tal value in various States? —6095.
The following estimates for 1925 are the
latest readily available: N.S.W., unimproved
capital value, £307, 765,000; improved capital
value, £802,296,000; percentage of unim-
proved on improved capital value, 38.4.; Vic ,
£220.556,000 and £539.711,000 (40.9) ; Q’iand,
£73,940,000 and £154,043,000 (48.0) • S.A.
£64,211,000 and £156,382,000 (41.1) • W.A.
£34,724,000 and £81.455,000 (42.6) ; Tas„
£22,734,000 and £49,301,000 ( 46.1).
What progress has been made with the
proposal 'to irrigate lands near Penrith
(N.S.W.) from the Warragamba Dam ? —
6380.
As the building of the dam has been de-
ferred indefinitely the irrigation scheme was
not finalised, and no further action is con-
templated in connection with it at present.
What are the functions of the Common-
wealth Senate? —6420.
They are, firstly, those of a chamber of
revision and review in matters of general
legislation; and, secondly, as a chamber to
represent the particular views, opinions and
interests of the States in matters admittedly
within the sphere of the federal authority,
but respecting which differences might arise,
as well as for the purpose of resisting pro-
posals not within the sphere of the federal
authority.
(1 ) Origin of petroleum or mineral oils?
(2) What are the various kinds of oils
yielded by oil wells? (3) The principal by-
products derived from the oils yielded? —
6289.
(1) The best-informed opinion is that oil
has been formed from animal or plant re-
mains, or from both. In some cases plant
remains may be the predominating cause;
in others, animal remains may be the
main source of origin, and the char-
acter of the oil varies according to the
material from which it has been derived
(2) Oil wells yield crude oils from which
are obtained by distillation volatile oils,
largely used as anaesthetics, solvents, clean-
ing solutions and in certain types of car-
bureted-air plants, and such other distil-
lates as petroleum spirits, gasoline, benzine
and naphtha. Other products are illu-
minating oils, such as kerosene and lubricat-
ing and fuel oils. (3) Such residuals as
paraffin, vaseline and asphaltum.
What rates were paid to privates during
the Great War in the AI.F., N.Z., Ameri-
can, Canadian and Imperial forces? —6158
Australian 6s. per day; New Zealand 5s •
American 4s. 7d. and ss. Id. (first-class
private) ; Canadian 4s. 7d.; British Is. 6d.
How much of Australia's war debt to
Britain was paid off by the liruce-Pdge
Government, and what amount is still owing?
—62.(6. < l
At .Tune 30, 1922, Australia’s war debt
maturing in London totalled £101,453 288,
and on Sept. 30, 1929, £93,071,775; there
being a reduction of £8,381,513 over the
period. The Bruce-Page Government
assumed office on Feb. 9, 1923, and vacated
office on Oct. 22, 1929, and the foregoing
figures represent approximately the reduction
of war del£ maturing overseas during its
tenure of office.
Can dirty oil taken from motor vehicles he
used again after being boiled and strained? —
6200.
It can be used again with fairly satisfac-
tory results if passed through filter paper,
but changes take place in all lubricating
oils when they are used. The continual
churning of the oil in the crank-case has
a tendency to oxidise the oil in contact with
the air, and small particles of carbon will
be always present. Boiling isn’t recom-
mended.
(1) Current price .of eucalyptus Australiana
oil? (2) Any demand at present? (3)
Best months of year for distilling the lea res?
(4) Is there a market for eucalyptus radiata
oil? —6018.
(1) About Is. 3d. per lb. (2) Poor owing
to trade depression. (3) The spring and
summer months, when the yields are
high and the quality satisfactory. _ Dur-
ing the winter months the yield diminishes,
but there is a slight improvement in quality.
(4) No.
(1) Where can Mentha piperita .(vulgaris
and officinalis) be obtained? (2) Where can
I obtain particulars of culture and distilla-
tion? (3) A suitable still and price? (4)
Buyers of peppermint oil? —6030.
(1) Roots can be obtained from plant
merchants in the U.K. or from Royal Botanic
Gardens, Ivew. (2) From the Curator of
the Sydney Technological Museum, who will
advise also concerning (3) and (4).
Formula for making non-poisonous refrig-
erating ■ paint for iron roof (■water is used
for domestic purposes)? —6322.
Place 101 b. tallow arid 1 bushel unslaked
lime in a large vessel and add about 3 gallons
of water. Allow lime to slake, and then add 21b.
butchers’ salt, which has previously been
dissolved in hot water. Stir thoroughly, then
add sufficient water to bring the mixture
to a brushing consistency, when it will be
ready for use.
1 have unlimited supplies of limestone and
clean sand, and intend to build stone or con-
crete house. (1) Can Ido without cement?
(2) Method of mixing and building up?
(3) Clay or sand best for foundations? (4)
Fame of manufacturers of reliable mixing
machines?— 6232. i
(1) Stone house can be built , with dressed
stone using cement mortar; concrete house
must necessarily use cement, limestone being
a suitable aggregate if hard. (2) Get free
pamphlets issued by the Australian Cement
Manufacturers’ Association, 14 : Spring-street,
Sydney. (3) Sandy soil is best. (4)
Gibson, Battle and Co., 535 Kent-street;
MoffnC Virtue and Co., 11 Palmer-street:
Armstrong-Holland, Ltd., 4 Bridge-street—
all Sydney.
(1) Is it necessary to matriculate to
become an evening student studying for the
B.A. degree at Sydney Uni.? If so, in what
subjects? (2) How many nights weekly must
a student attend lectures? (3) How long
does it take students to graduate? (4)
Cost of such a course? —624s.
(1) Yes; get a syllabus of the matricula-
tion exam, from the Registrar. (2) Depends
on the courses selected. At least three even-
ings. (3) Can be done in three years, but
evening students are advised to spread their
courses over four years. (4) Three years,
fees are about £100; four years, about £ll2.
I have some insect specimens that have
dried in an irregular manner. How can I
relax their joints so as to set them in a
natural position? —6lBs.
Put them in a closely stoppered jar with
damp sand at the bottom. A few hours will
render the insects sufficiently flexible to
enable them to be reset. A few drops of
carbolic acid should be placed on the sand to
prevent the growth of mould.
(1) What was the minimum, income tax-
able by Federal authorities for each year
1924 to 1930 ? (2) Minimum income each
year from 1924-’29 taxable in N.S.W.? (3)
Minimum income taxable this year and last
year in Vic.? —5963.
(1) £3OO less £1 for every £3 bv which
taxpayer’s net income exceeded £3OO. (2)
1923-24, £250; 1925-27, £300; 1925-29, £250.
The N.S.W. State and Federal exemptions
allowable for the year ended 30th June, 1930,
have not yet been fixed by Parliament.
(3) £2OO.
1 want to fit dn engine in a Maori canoe
about 25 ft. long with enough power to c-opc
with the fastest rapids and give a normal
speed of six or seven miles an hour. What
type of motor, and about what h.p.? —6275.
The craft, being of the frail, narrow beam
type, requires a motor having as little vibra-
tion as possible. A single-cylinder marine
motor would be too heavy for the power
required (about 7 h.p.), and would cause
too much vibration. A light 4-cylinder car
engine of the: type used in “baby” cars would
be ideal.
How to oxidise brass? —6173.
The following will give a steely-black
color: Take copper nitrate, lOoz.; water,
20oz. The copper nitrate is dissolved in
Avater and a solution of ammonia is
cautiously added until the precipitate which
forms at first is redissolved. The solution
becomes very turbid after a time, and in
this condition appears to yield best results.
To obtain the bronzing reaction it is neces-
sary to w T arm the solution. The article to
be oxidised should be thoroughly cleaned
before dipping.
What are the four largest hydro-electric
plants in Australia, and what authority con-
trols them? —6053.
Waddamana and Shannon River, Tas.
(State Govt.). Lake Margaret, Tas. (Mount
Lyell Mining Co.). Burrinjuck, Murrumbid-
gee, N.S.W. (State Govt.). Sugar Loaf-Rubi-
con plant -on the Goulburn River (Vic.
Electricity Commission).
.What'cities in Australia have a municipal
government like that in Brisbane , including
city and suburban areas? — 6231.
Brisbane is the only city in Australia
which has amalgamated the City Council
and all the suburban councils.
What race discovered the correct method
of measuring the area of a circle and the
volume of a sphere? —624l.
The properties of the circle w*ere studied
in Esypt many thousands of years before
the Christian era, but it is to the ancient
Greek philosophers, particularly Pythagoras
and Eudoxus, that knowledge of the prin-
ciples underlying the measurement of circles
and spheres must be credited. Absolute
accuracy in such measurements, is unattain-
able, but the ratio of circumference to
diameter has been worked out during the
last century to so many decimal points that
almost any required degree of approximation
is obtainable.
Brief Answers.
D.J.McK.: (1) It aims to increase
the sale of Queensland manufactures. (2) Ten years
or more. (3) Solvent, but poor. (4) Depends on
many things outside itself J.A.G.: Try A. P.
Bamcastle, 41 Q.V. Buildings, George-street, Sydney.
F.K.P.: See “Writers’ and Artists’ Year Book.”
For later list of Australian film producers' see
Chief Film Censor, Bligh-street, Sydney..'. .J.R.:
There are many species of oaks, and acorns
range from the size of a pea. to lin. long. Some
of the largest trees have the smallest acorns,. No
inducement will make the acorns larger than nature
intended F.F.: If you call at the Mitchell
Library, pamphlets on the abos. of W.A. will be
shown you. The W.A. Geological Survey- has
published several bulletins dealing with Murchi-
son goldfields. Copies may be seen at the Mitchell
Library, or obtained from the department R'.N.L.:
Bimbimbie (place of many birds), Malunna (a
bird’s nest), or Pianola (the nest) ... .F.M.: (1) No.
(2) Apprenticeship is compulsory. (3) An entrance
exam, prior to apprenticeship is necessary. (4)
Very ,Tittle chance. (5) Felton, Grimwade and Co. ;
Itocke, Tompsitt and Co.; Duerdin and Sainsbury;
and Sigma Go., Ltd.—all Melbourne C.T.: Apply
to the. various inter-State shipping cos C.J.:
They are characters in Dion Boucieault’s play “Col-
leen 8awn”....H.R.E.: It was in The Bulletin.
... • .G.N.L.: .Where khaki weed is thick,'spray with
arsenite of soda. Isolated plants should be cut.
.... H.F.H.: Not a job for an amateur. Pay . better
to buy one of the polishes on the . market..F.J.:
Sales of picked lines. of wallaby-tail sinews have
been made, at 20s. per lb., but there is little demand.
Any Sydney broker would accept a consignment: for
sale.. ...K.lt.G,: There is a, class, in spray painting
at Sydney Tech. Berger’s, llhodes, Sydney, will
help you in the spray painting of lacquers. ...M.S.I. :
(1) Research work is proceeding. (2) Stock are
prohibited from being removed into: other parts of
Queensland from the “declared infected area,” which
is situated on the far north-western boundary of
Queensland. .W.A.M.: You have no legal claim
to any greater amount of wages than the rate paid.
. ...J.D.: Get in touch with the Customs Depart-
ment, Circular Quay, Sydney E.H.J.: J. S.
Prout was the nephew of Samuel Prout, the well-
known English water-color painter R. 8.: The
aboriginal grammar and vocabulary is worth about
£1 17s. fid.; K. Langloh Parker’s “The Euahlayi
Tribe” should fetch 12s. fid., and the “Life and
Adventures of William Buckley,” £3 10s L.E.8.:
The rental value, of premises provided rent free
by an employer is subject to Federal income tax
if it is taken into account as representing part
of the remuneration of a taxpayer ... .H.L.D.:
Write to Australian Weaving Co., Ltd., Collingwood,
Vic A.T.: The first’meeting of Borg and Charl-
ton took place in January, 1924, at the Sydney
Domain baths; Charlton won the 440 yd. by 20yd.,
in 6 min. 11 4-ssec. ; 220 yd. in 2min. 23 4-ssec. ;
880 yd. in lOrriin. 51 4-ssee W. 8.: An account
of the New Norcia (W.A.) settlement will be
found in Birt’s “Bendictine . Pioneers in Aus-
tralia” and Cardinal Moran’s “History of • the
-Catholic Church in Australasia” C.H.P.:' Make
application for a determination of capital value
on form 97a, accompanied by a deposit of £5, and
lodged with the Crown Land Agent at Coonamble,
who will supply the form. .. .C.8.W.: S. Wilson was
the Government Meteorologist at Sydney prior to
D. J. Mares W.IL: W. C. Penfold and Co., 88
Pitt-street, Sydney f.D.: Dr. E-. Haber was acting
Governor-General of German New Guinea at the
outbreak- of the war. See “Official History of
Australia in the War” (vol. 10) ~. .H.E.M.: You
might strike it in Valpy’s “History of Toasting.”
. ...A.R.S.: Too lengthy to reprint here. See “The
Operagoers’. Complete Guide,” by Leo Melitz (p.
280) ... .A.F.: Prospects are not bright at present,
especially for the inexperienced. Apply to the
shipping cos E.F.G.: Consult Wilson’s Agencies,
174 Dowling-street, Sydney... .C.R.: No value....
H.T.: Write to the Departments of Land in the six
capital cities. .. .C.J.S.: Wages paid, under a Federal
Award are exempt from contributions under the
N.S.W. Family Endowment Act as from December
20, 1929 V.J.C.M.: (1) “Clans, Septs and Regi-
ments of the Scottish Highlands,” by Adam. (2)
Not a clan. .. .E.J.F.: S. Beisley, Lake Grace;
P. Benstead and W. Harding. Dumbleyung-; H.
Goldsmith and Clark and Co., Wagin—all W.A.
W.M.: (1) English and Italian are the official
languages of Malta, English taking priority. (2)
Native Maltese of all classes speak among themselves
the Phoenician Maltese tongue, altogether different
from the Italian language. (3) No.textbooks relating
to the Maltese language are available in
Sydney. (4) Itecommend Italian... .R.G.: In 190.1
the Federal authorities were empowered to depori
any Kanaka found in Australia after December, 190(1.
Recruiting ceased in 1904. After December, 1906,
3642 islanders were repatriated at a total cost of
£31,473.. . .C.McM.: (1) The fuel pump has proved
a very satisfactory device. (2) The Marquette car is
now again available for delivery. (3) Neither the
Oldsmobile nor the Dodge is likely to go off the
market. (4) On the contrary, sales of the ear you
mention have been heavy and buyers seem well
satisfied, (o) The tariff charges do not affect Un-
assembled chassis, and for cars assembled in Aus-
tralia with Australian-made bodies, there should be
no increase in price... . Amb.: (1) Knowledge of
land values in the district and ability as a salesman.
(2) Practically impossible to learn the profession
from outside. (3) Reimer and Tebbutt’s “Agency
Law and Principles” and Zillman’s “Real Estate
Accounts.” (4) Real Estate Institute, 30a Martin-
place, Sydney, will supply you with a set of forms.
C.S.: (1) and (2) Apply Police Department,
Melbourne. (3) Skins showing bullet boles are
saleable, but their value is considerably affected.
(4) Most unlikely T.E.A.: The gentleman
concerned has struck trouble in Vie. and his
project has been abandoned W.M.K.: Georgr
Robey was never in Australia... -G.M.A.: (1)
Approx. 283 days. (2) On the average Guernsey -
and Jerseys. (3) Approx. 16 weeks. (4) Yes. (5)
With every care. Advise castrating and selling as
pork fatters. (6) “Pigs,” by Potts, and Agricultural
Department literature; also Maynard’s “Dairy
Manual.” (7) Dairy butter differs from factory
butter in manufacture and quality. It is made
without the aid of refrigeration and pasteurisation,
which contribute to the keeping qualities of factory
butter... .A.J.C.: Arsenic is not soluble in crude oil.
A.W.: Suggest R. C. Wingfield’s “Modern
Methods in the Diagnosis and Treatment of Pul-
monary Tuberculosis” (135.); G. T. Herbert’s “Pul-
monary Tuberculosis” (12s. 6d.) and “A Textbook
of Pulmonary Tuberculosis for Students” (375. fid.)
Angus and Robertson, Sydney.... (Many other*,
mailed.)


BAsA
fl Iv I
I
m, :■
*. i
r
r r :I- ?i
r.
■ ■
■
* wm
s:
44.
: 4
V If
»& w *
p.
Made and Guaranteed by the Auto Strop Safety Razor
Company, Ltd., 197-207, City Road, London, England.
New shaped holes allow seventeen per
cent, extra weight giving ‘hollow ground’
rigidity for first time with two-edged .
safety blade. Manufactured from one
long ribbon of steel; ground, honed,
finished in one single continuous opera-
tion —so that every blade MUST have
the same perfect edge, Probak blades
fit two-edged safety razors. Sold every-
where at fixed prices —2- the small
packet, 4/- the large.
wonderful invention in
new two - edged safety
blade • made in
the ribbon there-
fore uniform in
quality«buy
PROBAK
BLADES
I IS
: >
ẁ
ili
FORSTER’S STEEL
CLOTHES LOCKERS
For Clubs, Schools, Theatres, Offices, Factories
and Homes. Supplied singly or in rows; hand-
somely finished in olive-green baked enamel.
Ensure Cleanliness. Save fire risk, and pro-
vide security against theft. Every locker fitted
with a thief-proof lock. Supplied with base
or legs as desired.
The illustration shows the three most popular
styles, namely, single-tier, two-tier and four-
tier. The two- or four-tier arrangement of
lockers is very advantageous where floor space
is a consideration. Can be supplied with hasp
and staple, so that the users may supply their
own padlocks if desired.
Forster s Steel Lockers will set a good example
iu your business.
STORE YOUR STOCK IN
FORSTER’S STEEL SHELVING
PROVIDES GREATER SPACE STRONGER THAN WOOD
Many business houses are now installing Steel Shelving for
greater storage efficiency, and Forster’s adjustable Steel
Shelving is playing a leading part in this progressive trend.
Steel shelving gives increased storage space, is fire-resisting,
more attractive, has double the strength and life of wood-
work, and its first cost is the last cost. Whatever your line
of business, consider the many advantages of storing your
stock in steel.
Forster’s Steel Shelving can be made to your
own design and specifications. Plans supplied
free after consultation. Let us know your
requirements.
For the Engineering and Motor Trades. The illustration
shows an island stack with shelves on three sides. The
drawers shown are divided into suitable compartments
for the storage of small drills and taps, etc., or small
bolts and nuts. Other designs for Stores, Banks,
Libraries, Hospitals, Offices, Music-shops, etc.
FORSTER’S STEEL
PRODUCTS
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
SHELVING CLOSETS, BINS, CUPBOARDS,
FOR EVERY STORAGE NEED.
Write now, or call, jor further information.
j. ■ J
;? .
|i
m
1.
FORSTER’S BEDSTEADS LTD.
MARY ANN STREET,
ULTIMO, SYDNEY.
’Phone: M 4247 (3 lines).


sdf
ANNOUNCING P. & C. ACCIDENT
AND SICKNESS ASSURANCE
For nine years the co-operative
policy of the P. and C. lias won
the goodwill of the Man on the
Land throughout the length and
breadth o'f Australia.
The Company now announces
accident and sickness assurance
on the same co-operative basis.
The liberal nature of these
policies and the special benefits
they provide will make an imme-
diate appeal to all who wish to
protect their incomes and pro-
vide for additional expenses
incurred during periods of dis-
ablement.
Send for literature and full
particulars' to
9S PRODUCERS S'CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OJF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: H. Fell.
Head Office: P. & 0. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
Agency Co., Ltd.
sd
ASSURED POSITIONS - BETTER MONEY.
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and
enter a profession where there is a certainty of employment are advised to
send for our prospectus. Here is one profession where the supply is not equal
to the demand. Those enrolling during the present month receive a SPECIAL
CONCESSION.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
THE HIGH COST OF LIVING
is a serious matter and difficult to solve.
BUT
THE HIGH COST OF ASSURANCE
has been solved.
DOMINION FORESTS Bond Assurance
cuts premiums in two and also gives you a planted freehold
acre. Write the Sole Brokers:
PACIFIC UNDERWRITERS,
26 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
SMOKE-OH!
Returned soldiers could do without the
Scullin Government’s meddles.
¥ *
“He was knocked unconscious while checking his
cash.”
A case of taking the count while counting
the takings.
* *
THE DOUBLE CROSS.
“The Premier, Mr. Bavin, has a severe cold.”
—“Sun Pictorial.”
“Mrs. T. R. Bavin is helping to nurse her
husband, the Premier, through an attack of appen-
dicitis.” —Same paper, same day.
Holmes pored over the cuttings with a
magnifying glass. “Watson,” he said at
last, “there is crime afoot. Get the armored
car.”
“Might I suggest, speaking as a medical
practitioner,” I objected, “that an ambulance
would be more suitable?”
The detective’s face set grimly. “Idiot!”
lie hissed. “This is no ambulance case.
The press has been fooled. We are dealing
with a trap.”
I gasped. “Not— not Weaver?”
THE WEAKER SEX.
“Have you a book called ‘Mart the Master?”
“Fiction Department on the other side, sir!”
He -shook his head. “ ‘Weaver Won’t
Nobble,’ ” he reminded me. “No; we are
up against a stiffer problem. This is ‘Red
.lack's’ work.”
“The Auburn Gang again?” I faltered.
“None other. Get our gas-masks and skite-
proof waistcoats, and then into the car with
yon.”
Five minutes later we were speeding past
the Legislative Assembly. It presented its
usual appearance when in session by night
—that of an illuminated goods-shed—but an
ominous silence reigned.
“God help him!” breathed Holmes.
He $ ❖ ❖
On! On! A traffic policeman desisted
from his interminable task of booking up
parked cars.
“I saw him not half an hour ago,” said
the man. “He was dressed as an admiral.”
Holmes shook his head gloomily. “One
of his war-time disguises,” he muttered. “The
plot thickens.”
Suddenly a gigantic limousine shot past,
leaving in its wake a mingled aroma of
brose and vodka.
“Glasgow Jock’s car,” whispered my com-
panion. “There’s just a chance.”
“You don’t mean”—l scarcely dared to
utter the words—“you don’t mean .... the
Double Cross.”
“ ‘lt’s a Way They Have in the Move-
ment,’ ” hummed the investigator cryptically.
“I rather fancy, Watson,” and his grim visage
lighted in one of his rare smiles, “that
Red Jack will get the shock of his life to-
night.” Ilis voice dropped. “Did you notice
that Jock’s chauffeur w T as wearing epaulettes
and a cocked hat?” For a split second he
sat lost in thought, and then, “To Parlia-
ment Plouse!” he snapped.
It seemed hours before we drew up at
the steps down which so many vociferous
patriots have been flung since the Mother
State achieved the boon of self-government.
Macquarie-street rang with how’s, yells, blas-
phemies, groans, oaths, obscene language,
charges and counter-charges. From time to
time tribunes rushed from the debating
chamber, attended to their bloodstained
noses, and fought their way back again.
Holmes nodded his relief. “As I thought,
Watson,” he said. “Our work is over. The
Premier has arrived.” 10-2-4
* *
FABLE OF THE INDUSTRIAL AWARD
AND THE DISGUSTED CUSTOMER.
Once upon a time a Citizen entered a
Barber’s Shop. “Good Day,” said he. “What
about a Shave?”
“Well, That De-
pends,” Hesitated
the Barber. “My
License only per-
mits me to Shave
Red-headed men on
Alternate Thurs-
days between
Twelve and Two.
It’s Thursday, and
Within the Per-
mitted Hours, and
your Hair seems
the Right Color.
But I have to com-
' ply with Union Re-
gulations As Well.
Union Regulations
Stipulate that Mar-
ried Clients shall
have a Mother-in-
law of Not Less
than 65, and Single
Men must not be
Left-handed. And
then there are the
Domestic Rules
and the Orders in
Council. The
Domestic Rules
say” But the
Citizen had Left.
Moral: “An
award that means
Cash to the Bar
may mean Crash to
the Barber.”
3? ¥
EVADING THE
ISSUE.
The customer
looked indignantly
at his whisky. A
fly that had fallen
in had wet its feet,
and might have
sunk to the ankles
if it had not been
rescued.
“How much,” in-
quired the customer
meaningly, pointing
an accusing finger
at the under-measure, “is a nip of whisky"?’’
“Ninepence,” she answered.
Harold Hardtop.
# *
REVERSE.
My typist took dictation ivell,
Her pad upon her knee,
Until for her fair charms I fell —■
Nov- she dictates to me.
“Tho Mayor officially declared the season open
by bouncing the bell in the city game.” —Bendigo
“Advertiser.”
The idea being to get a ding-dong go.
¥ *
Under the spreading clicstnut-tree
The village smithy stood;
And on that spot a garage-man
Now makes a livelihood.
MEOW.
FIFI: “He’s such a bold fellow —he called me his little siren,”
HEBE: “Oh, dear, I don’t think your voice is as bad as THAT!”
Half-time worker’s plaint:—
“Nothing like the good whole days.”
HOW IT REALLY HAPPENED.
The Moses and Aaron travelling circus left
Egypt with considerable eclat, being preceded
by the one and only genuine pillar of fire
ever used in the business,
The show had started in
quite a small way. In youth
Moses had acted as a con-
juror’s offsider and in this
way he had picked up a few
tricks. There does not
appear to have been any-
thing remarkable about them.
Turning a rod into a snake
was his star item—old stuff,
and not nearly so difficult
as producing 17 rabbits from
Pharaoh’s fez, as a rival did
once in the Luxor Tivoli.
Even in those days show-
men had their financial
troubles. The circus was
pursued by indignant credi-
tors who were only mollified
by cheques drawn on the
Bank of the Red Sea. It
is a regrettable fact that all
these documents were subse-
quently dishonored. A tour
of Palestine was projected;
but dates were not available.
Egypt having been made too
hot for a return visit, the
show was forced to go bush-
whacking “wandering in
the wnlderness,” as the pro-
prietor put it. References
to “manna in the wilderness”
show that the box-office w T as
in a fairly healthy state.
Still, Sinai appears to
have been the best show-
town on the route, and it
was here that Moses left the
company in charge of Aaron
whilst he went away in
search of new acts. During
his absence Aaron put on
“The Golden Calf.” The
revue was a winner, but the
Mt. Horeb “Herald” was
extremely critical of its moral tone, and
censors, Customs officials and others at-
tended in the front stalls with opera glasses
every night for 17 weeks to see if it ought to
be banned in the interests of public morality.
Moses found them all hard at work when
he got back, the Customs officials being parti-
cularly attentive to their duties. These
public-spirited men had got to know all
tne chorus-girls with the splendidly selfless
object of gaining an insight into the full
infamy of their lives. Moses, a rigid moralist,
“smashed the Golden Calf,” i.e., paid the
company off. He then retired to his cot-
tage in the hills
(“The Mount,” all
mod. convs.) and
there devoted him-
self to writing reli-
gious and philoso-
phical treatises, in-
cluding “The Ten
Commandments”—
subsequently im-
mortalised on tin 1
screen by C. B. de
Mille. The Pales-
tine circuit con-
tinued under the
management o f
Joshua, who added
a number of new
acts, notably “The
Stationary Sun”
and “The Walls of
Jericho” which
took the public by
storm. Roman
competition eventu-
ally ruined the
business. The
Romans introduced
popular entertain
m ents in their
luxurious “period”
Cdlosseums (fore-
runners of on r
talkie palaces), in
which the stars re-
ceived no salaries.
The Jews were so
revolted at these
unbusiness - like
methods that they remained out of the show
business for centuries afterwards
* * H ‘ M<
THE WIDOWER.
“Row’s your old complaint?” I said.
An unconvincing tear
Fell from his eye. lie sighed, “She’s dead;
She passed away last year!”
# *
“Insolvent declared that he had to maintain
a big establishment. Otherwise his credit would
have been destroyed.” —Bankruptcy report.
Necessity with him was the mother of pre-
tension.
* ¥
NURSERY RHYME.
Ride a cock-horse to Bankruptcy Cross;
The high cost of living unceasingly grows.
There are rings for our tucker,
And trusts for our clothes;
Which is wliy the consumer must pay through
the nose.
NOT A THING ANY GIRL COULD FORGIVE
“I don't think I can have any more to do with Percy.
D’you know he buys his wife the same sort of
stockings he buys vie!”
“I wouldn’t put up with that, dear. Why, it’s almost
bigamy.”
ANOTHER VERSION.
You may try to get monish from Jews as
you will,
Exit the cents of the Noses will cling to
them still.
CONCLUSIVE.
“Dear Miss Dix, —Do men ever fall in love with
lomely girls ?—Polly.
“Answer: Of course they do, daughter. Look
about you at any assemblage of married women.”
— “Sun.”
Mere beauty isn’t ev’ry thing, you know,
When swains who crave a mate a-wooing go;
If any girl has ever fancied so,
This ought to fix it.
'Tis very strange such foolishness survives.
The merest glance at any knot of wives
To biases kicks it.
What made Jill Jack’s and Dorothea Dick's?
Their comeliness, you ask, and answer “Nix.”
Some more enduring qualities awoke
Their tenderness. The oracle has spoke.
Dorothy Dixit!
BEAUTY.
It was a very lovely sight,
That crowd of lathers virgin white,
Symmetrical and chaste,
As Nature made them all and each.
They steam sedately from the leach
With no untoward haste
To decorate tho shark-proof net.
Their satin lacks are gleaming wet,
Pearls on a string of grey.
A cynic he who’d not admire
Those seagulls on the rusty wire
That spans fair Coogee’s lay.
O. McM.


Hawaii
Where it is Always Fine
These Isles of perpetual Spring, in a beautiful inid-Pacific island
paradise are beckoning you. Spend a holiday such as you’ve
never before experienced. Stay at least a week. Surfing, surf-
board and outrigger canoe riding, native dancing, polo, golf,
inter-island cruises, scenic trips, active volcanoes, sun-baking on
Honolulu’s world-famous Waikiki Beach, and hosts of other
attractions.
It’s yours for the taking, and comparatively inexpensive, too!
Special return excursion fares new available. Modern American
Hotels from 15/- to £3 per day with meals.
Send us your address and we will forward to you descriptive
booklets of the Hawaiian Islands, attractively illustrated in
colour.
Hawaii Tourist Bureau
Box 1627 8.8., G.P.O.
Dept. 1 /
SYDNEY
10,000 Recipes that will
Save You Money
"1
“ processes
on the hundreds of things you
use daily in your home, your
factory, office, store or farm.
Price 211-
POST FREE
HENLEY’S TWENTIETH CENTURY BOOK:
RECIPES, FORMULAS AND PROCESSES.
New Revised and Enlarged Edition.
IN every can of baking powder or paint you buy—in the hundreds of things you use in
your home or business—is a goodly profit you can now save and make your own
through the priceless knowledge contained in HENLEY’S TWENTIETH CENTURY BOOK
OF RECIPES, FORMULAS AND PROCESSES.
It places at your finger-tips over ten thousand separate recipes, preparations, formulas
and processes containing the latest scientific discoveries.
In simple, non-technical terms it explains how you can make every conceivable thing
in general use, from inks and toothpastes to asphalt cement and battery solutions. It
contains the discoveries of civilisation itself!
Thousands of Unpublished Secret Processes.
Here and there in costly volumes and scientific works are some of the rare recipes
included in HENLEY’S amazing book, but no other volume published to-day offers you
such complete authoritative information on so wide a range of subjects as HENLEY’S
TWENTIETH CENTURY BOOK OF RECIPES, FORMULAS and PROCESSES.
Thousands of secret processes and formulas are here published for I lie first time —
many of them gleaned from (he private papers of leading French and European scientists
and never before translated ir'm English.
Many a fortune has been built on a good formula. Think what it would mean
to have ten thousand to choose from!
All Yours for a Small Sum.
The housewife will find it valuable in making beautifying creams, baking powders
or insecticides. With it tlm factory can save money on belt dressings, amalgams or boiler
compounds. The farmer will find its latest scientific information on fertilisers, cheese
making, tanning and Portland cement indispensable.
Hardly a day passes but. what you require authentic, up-to-the-minute information
on these very recipes, formulas and processes. Why not send for a copy of this remark-
able one volume encyclopedia to-day?
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Safety front colds in crowded places
ŵ
HUDSON*,
frrfflL.
MEAN SAFETY FOR THROAT AND LUNGS
21
&
A-
m.
%
m
D3O
Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical Co. Ltd., Bay Street, Sydney.
COLDS and Sore Throats and Bronchial
infections are particularly catchy in
crowded places, both indoors as well as out.
There is no safer medical precaution and
nothing so convenient to carry and to take
any time and anywhere as Hudson’s
"Eumenthol” Jujubes.
Sufferers from Colds, in either throat or
lungs, will derive immediate benefit from
Hudson’s "Eumenthol” Jujubes. Hoarse-
ness, and that choked, parched and tender
state of the throat, is quickly soothed, while
the continued use of Hudson’s Jujubes suf-
fuses the lung passages with the potent heal-
ing power of the famed "Eumenthol” —
known throughout the world for over 3 5
years as Hudson’s "Eumenthol” and
Endorsed by the Medical
Press
The Lancet (London), The Practitioner (London), Prac-
tical Medicine (India), and other leading medical journals,
and the Medical and Pharmaceutical professions throughout
the world.
1/6 a tin
at all Chemists


DANKS’ WARM TONE
WINTER WALLPAPERS
FOR HOMES & FLATS
We invite you *o inspect shipments of the latest designs from
abroad. Many of them are exclusive, and include the new
tones and designs in
Moreni
Imitation Rough Cast.
Modernistic
They are most suitable for modern homes and flats and the
prices ate low. Call in and see them in our naturally-lighted
showrooms. You can order by post.
flniimtiiiiiinn
I JOHN
nuiiiiiiumiimiir
pry-
lulus
&SON 1
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
We will send samples and prices to any address. Mention rooms you
intend papering.
I
m
h
X
m
_ ::
% it with Hillierfc/
TbsUd tk day they arc niatU
z/fie famous
Red Box of
Bhocolates
HtLUER'S
CHOCOLATES
ADDRESS-
162-166 Pitt Strjeet
S Y~D N £ Y~*
PR.ICES
3/ 5/6. 6/ 10/. 12/6.
20/ An.cL 30/
fsd
/(PATON)
RHEUMATISM
BACKACHE
Kidney Trouble
4 •,
Are you a victim of dangerous kidney trouble without
knowing itP Here are symptoms that should warn you
of your danger. Chronic backache, constant down-
dragging, worn-out feeling, bad tempered on the slightest
occasion, dizziness, pains all over the body, sallow com-
plexion, bad nights, bladder trouble—you cannot afford to
neglect these, Nature’s definite warnings.
- ■■■ ♦
If you start the day crippled with pain—
TAKE THIS ADVICE
j
gfFiCE
»
/
ANOTHER
DAY OF
AGONY
It is no use doping the system with heart-exciting drugs, pick-me-ups
or purgatives. The trouble lies in your blood. The kidneys are
allowing impurities and poisons to accumulate which, being carried to
every part of the body, cause you constant pain and suffering. Will
you believe the statements of thousands —'yes, thousands —of one-time
sufferers who tell you they have quickly ended chronic suffering,
sometimes lasting for years, simply by taking a course with De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills ? For over 40 years this remedy has been
tried and trusted, and every day comes more amazing testimony to
this simple, inexpensive remedy. De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills
cost but 3/6 and 6/6 per bottle. In 24 hours from the first dose you
can tell they are starting their health work. This is guaranteed. If
you will only take these pills regularly, you will be able to tell us of
dangerous kidney trouble ended and splendid health and strength
restored. Men and \Homen who have suffered for years, the weakness
and pain caused by kidney trouble, have found in De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills the means of regaining vigorous health.
Your chemist can tell you all about the prescription from which this
remedy is made. It is clearly printed on each box sold. He will tell
you also about our “ satisfaction or money-back ” guarantee that you
will see results in 24 hours. Why feel and look old when you can end
your suffering with —
DeWITT’S PILLS


F
ISN
T
A
IT ISN'T A
DYNAMIC
a bow to Ko<*»fc3
“Your Radio pleasure depends
on the Speaker
Moderately Priced
Unequalled in Tone
Demonstration will Convince You.
Obtainable All Radio Dealers
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS IN ALL STATES.
w
Make Sure of Your Game
WINCHESTER shot guns and Winchester
weatherproof shot shells are great game
getters.
Whether you are shooting for
game or at the traps, you will find a
Winchester Shot Gun a dependable
team-mate. Perfect balance—Safe-
Strong—Hard-hitting. Their satisfy-
ing shooting qualities have
made them favorites
the world oven
fsd
■&V ifc
7T
Ws Eft
&
«JCK *
rb?!s
With Winchester perfect pattern shells
they make the ideal sHooting combination.
Leadet —Repeater Speed Loads—Repeater
—Ranger—Nublack.
For sale by dealers everywhere.
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN, CONN.. U. S. A.
Always use Winchester Ammunition with
Arms —they are made for each other
Model 12. Light,
strong, the “perfect
repeater.” Hammerless
take-down, 12, 16 and 20
gauge.
Model 97. A six-shot hammer
repeater of world wide-popularity.
12 gauge only.
Model 41. Single Shot. 410 bolt
action shot gun.
Poverty
Point
“Say Bo” : In company with a couple of
leading producers I was privileged recently
to witness the way Jim Gerald conducts his
rehearsals of hew sketches at Melbourne
Tivoli. The producers remarked that if they
hadn't seen it they wouldn’t have believed
it. Gerald sat at a table with a pencil and
a scrap of paper salvaged from the floor.
“Now, you, Millie,” said Gerald, “come on
right and say to Joe, ‘How arc you?’ ” Millie
did so. “Now, you, Joe, say ‘l’m all right,’
and, Millie, you say, ‘Good for you,’ and do
a shuffle. Now a chord please”—this to the
orchestra. “Now you girls, come on left
and do a shuffle. That’ll do. That’s jake.
We’ll put it on this evening.” And so on.
A few of the soops write down their lines,
but nobody knew what the sketch was going
to be about or what Gerald would contribute
to it. It went over in the evening without
a hitch. A genius in his way, this Gerald.
He has it all arranged in his head, just as
■ Norman Lindsay has a hundred or so figures
dovetailed in his mind before he starts on
an etching.
“Cauboy”: One of Jim Gerald’s prin-
cipal assets as a comedian is a suit of
clothes several times too large for him, and
he is as temperamental with regard to it as
any operatic prima domra. A hasty sup-
position would be that any second-hand out-
fit that fulfilled the requirements of bagginess
at tlie knees would satisfy him, but I have
if on good authority that if frightful necessity
obliged him to go on in such a makeshift
he would be reduced to impotence, histrioni-
cally speaking. The costume familiar to thou-
sands of Tivolians is “made to measure” and
costs its owner about twice as much as an
ordinary suit.
“L. de R.”: Gladys Moncrieff’s venture as
an entrepreneur was aired in a Melbourne
court when sundry dissatisfied actors sued
her for a week’s pay in lieu of notice alleged
not to have been given. The Judge dis-
missed the case; he might have added a
rider on the fickleness of the theatre-going
public. Gladys could not have done more
to keep her company in continuous employ-
ment. Her first play included a leper, whose
face was realistically made up to suggest
that half of it wasn’t there. He roamed
through two acts and the bowels of a Zeppe-
lin endeavoring to infect the passengers and
crew. In Miss Moncrieff’s second artistic
choice a gorilla, howling and gnashing its
teeth, pursued members of the cast about
the auditorium. Yet the season was a flop.
“C. Ma”: Confirmed that Stuart Doyle
has taken over the interests of Australian
Films, which was started 17 years ago and
never did much good with itself. He intends
making pictures in Sydney and Melbourne,
and studios have already been prepared. The
Melbourne depot is somewhere off St. Kilda-
road.
“C.R.”: There was a heartening episode
at Fullers’ Majestic in Adelaide recently
when George Wallace made an appeal for
the flesh-and-blood actor. Somebody shouted,
“Give us back vaudeville,” the whole house
took up the cry, and if the enthusiasm dis-
played fires a few producers there may yet
be something doing.
“L.H.P.”: “,The Country Girl” and “A
Country Girl” have both proved popular in
Sydney. Morton Selten, still playing in
London, was Belleville to Marie de Grey’s
Peggy in the revival of Wycherley’s comedy
“The Country Girl” at Sydney Opera House
in 1884. Dion Boucicault made a hit as
Belleville, as also did Pattje Browne as Peggy
in the Brough-Boucicault show at the Cri. in
1892. “A Country Girl,” the musical comedy
by Monckton, Tanner and Ross, brought two
J. C. Williamson companies, the Musical
Comedy Co. and the Royal Comics, together
for the first showing in Australia at Her
Majesty’s on Nov. 7, 1903.
“Parvian” : Melbourne is showing great re-
luctance to seeing the last of “The Last
of Mrs. Cheyney,” and “Disraeli” is another
full of running. The success of these two
talkies, whose casts are almost entirely
British, comes from two reasons (besides ex-
cellent plots)—diction and acting of a fine-
ness that takes by storm a public used to
the crudities of crime plays, “moider” mys-
teries and back-stage inanities.
“Dramofilm” : If “Stormer” (B. 23/4/’3O)
ever bets on his statement that “The Good
Oil” wasn’t staged in New York as “The
Easy Mark” he deserves to have the latter
title conferred perpetually on him and his
heirs. The oleaginous outrage was produced
in N’York in August, 1924. by the Indepen-
dent Theatre Inc. A,s for “Stormer’s” claim
that the Australian Edward Carroll wrote
it, I have an idea, backed by the 1924-25
year-book of the Yankee stage, that one
•lack Larrie was the guilty party. If an
Australian had a hand in the affair, he must
be very much Americanised, for otherwise
his influence is about as noticeable as the
aroma of an onion in Footscray.
“Cruiser”: Muriel Starr got an uncondi-
tional discharge in her bankruptcy case. Her
liabilities were £3427, £2622 of which were
owed to J.C.W., and her assets were £3O-odd.
The Firm’s shareholders can solace themselves
with the reflection, however, that Muriel in
her heyday was the second-biggest money-
spinner they ever had. The biggest was Julius
Knight.
“Jonop”: J.C.W., encouraged by the big
success of “The Belle of New York,” will
definitely do “Floradora,” notable in theatre
history for the fact that three of the original
players met tragic deaths. George Lauri and
Wallace Brownlow suicided and Dick Iveeley,
of the famous sextette, disappeared while
the company was travelling by sea from
Sydney to Brisbane.
“Cauboy”: Melbourne’s Poverty Point has
suffered sad vicissitudes of late. Two years
ago it still stood at the corner of Bourke
and Swanston streets, but the conversion of
the promontory pub into a haberdashery
forced habitues further up Bourke-street
above the Royal. Now, if you want to find
them, you must follow the sign of the
Golden Microphone along a small lane off
Russ ell-street to the headquarters of 3LO.
I counted a dozen once well-known histrions
hanging wistfully about the ante-rooms the
other afternoon in forlorn hope of a shop.
“L.H.P.”: The success of Morton and
Kerker’s “Belle of New York’’ in Australia
makes one wonder why their “The Girl
From Up There” has never been produced
here. It is furnished with some of Kerker's
brightest and most sparkling music. Also
tlie various scenes, ranging from the North
Pole to a Greek island and the Paris boule-
vards, provide piquant contrasts.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: There was a shocked
silence in a Sydney theatre recently wnen a
lady mummer lost control of her bloomers.
It is strange to see in the supposedly free-
minded, modern public a Pecksniffianism that
was not present in a London audience of
years ago when a similar accident hap-
pened to Mrs. Pat Campbell. When that
lady’s delicate garment fell about her ankles,
she stooped, relieved herself of the encum-
brance, and handed it to a stage attendant
with a gesture of dismissal that sent him off.
The audience, instead >of being shocked,
cheered her for the poise with which she had
carried off a difficult situation.
“Vil N.”: Jennie Lee has gone, in London,
to that rest that knows not the hurried
recall to the manager’s office. She filled boy
parts; her London Lyceum debut, in 1870,
was as Ilenry in the forgotten “Chilperic” ;
a later effort was Sam Willoughby of “The
Ticke't-of-Leave Man.” It was in ’Frisco
in ’seventy-five that she first played Jo, the
street-arab of “Bleak House.” From then
on she Jo-ed at the slightest provocation.
After five years in Australia she returned
to London in 1885, and at the Strand her
characterisation was glorified and the play
was put on as “Jo” ! Forty-five years after
introducing him to London she gave Jo his
final flutter (Feb., 11121). And I’m willing to
stake my prospective halo against a heavenly
nightshirt that she takes the call as Jo on
Judgment Day; for she was one of those
unfortunate type-victims who find role-
grooves and are never permitted to get out
of them.
“N’Yoik”: The movie censorship of the
United States is exclusively in the hands of
spinsters and old ladies, whose ideas of art
are rudimentary though their moral sense
is strong. Only the six largest States have
censorships, but their verdict is final and
overwhelming and no producer dare oppose
them. The virtue of the other 42 States is
guarded by the National Board of Review,
composed of representatives of the Daughters
of the American Revolution, the Parent-
Teachers’ Association, the International
Catholic Alumnse and the General Federa-
tion of Women’s Clubs. Between them they
let through shoddy and salacious sentimen-
talism, but block every attempt at art and
actuality. While Australia draws all her
spiritual nourishment from Hollywood there
can be no improvement in her diet.
“Lond”: Australia’s old stage friend
Lillah McCarthy reappears in the new
“Empire pageant” lately filmed. (What a
nice kid she was when she first saw Aus-
tralia as a junior under Wilson Barrett!
And how cross Maud Jeffries was when
Lillah, coming on early in “Claudian,” some-
how got the ecstatic applause usually re-
served for the star!) She is now Lady
Keeble, 0.8. E., and she represents Canada
on the screen; the beautiful Phyllis Neilson-
Terry is Australia in the pageant, and Lady
Lavery, her husband’s one-and-only model,
is a graceful Irish Free State.
The Inky Way
“Hamer”: “It must be true; it was in
the paper”—that old faith has been knocked
out by the sensation press. t A defendant in
a street-littering case at the Sydney Central
has put the modern view. Asked whether he
did not know people were being fined for
throwing paper in the streets, he answered,
“I didn’t believe it, because I only read it
in the papers.”
The Junior Literary Society, a gathering
of Sydney youngsters, justifies its existence
in the only possible way—by issuing “The
J.L.5.,” a journal intended to encourage
young writers by publishing their efforts.
The sheet is well turned out, and should
win a hearing for its intent, at least.
■ “Ilyram”: The prize for the most coura-
geous piece of journalism perpetrated during
the last ten years seems to be due to a chap
named Quillen, for a while editor of the
“Chattanooga News.” His life’s ambition,
as lie put it in an editorial postscript, was to
tell the truth about one wedding and then let
the heavens fall. He did it. He gave the names
and addresses of bride and bridegroom and
supplied a few personal notes: “The ’groom
manages to dress well and keep a supply of
spending money because his dad is an old
fool who takes up his bad cheques instead of
letting him go to gaol where he belongs; the
bride is a skinny, fast little idiot who has
been kissed by everybody in town since she
was 32. She paints, sucks cigarettes and
drinks, but she doesn’t know how to cook
or keep house.” Quillen is now a fugitive.
“Dingbat ’: Some of the pilgrims who
travelled the Inky Way a score of years ago,
and left it for less heavy going, have long
reached the. “green patch at the top of the
hill.” One is Alfred Brasch, whose magnum
opus was “The Adventures of Mr. Barnes”—
a bunch of Bulletin sketches reprinted by
the Bookstall Co. early this century. Alf’s
father founded a piano-business in Mel-
bourne, and Alf, who was intelligence-
officer on the Italian front during the war,
now has a town house and a country one!
and would no doubt groan deeply if com-
pelled to sit down and write some more
about Mr. Barnes. He was amateur light-
weight stoush-champion of Victoria when his
brother Harold, who passed on last year was
the State’s best sculling amateur.


1 tanking, Public Companies, etc-
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 2G7 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund . . .. .. . . 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America, and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
i
$§s I i
Register
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
3C Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
Experimenting!
How much a year do
you waste in unneces-
sary experiments?
Cut waste and
advertise with a
“Result Bringer.”
“The
Telegraph ”
( ‘T)risbane)
Has proved itself over
58 years a good “Result
Bringer” for all adver-
tisers.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Sydney Representative:
N. L. ROBERTS,
Country Press Co-op. Co. of Aust., Ltd.,
Barrack Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Shipping, etc.
ę
fr.V,
l
Wl
m
e\
mm#*
JIM .
(Sl|o/the;M)tnoitf
Full of charm and interest the Solomon
Islands are only 7 days’ steaming north-
east of Sydney.
To those in search of an Ideal Sea
Trip the opportunity should be now
availed of for a Holiday Cruise among
these Wonderful Coral Islands.
The S.S. “MATARAM” sails from Sydney
11th June and 23rd July, 1930, visiting
more than a score of Picturesque Island
Ports.
Round Trip 4-| Weeks.
Fare £4l Return.
Write for Booklet No. 52/S to
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD.
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
“The B.P. Magazine,” richly illustrated in color. 96 pages
of travel, story and pictures. 1/- copy. All newsagents.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
Witb which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
sd
£7,500,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
588 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND - 4,200,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL - - - 4,739,012 10 0
£13,678,025 0 0
Dwcctovs •
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN ( Chairman ) ;
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND; Major-General
the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—3B Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts oi
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping-, etc.
Huddart ParkerLl^ 1
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to llobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as trer dailv papers.
For full particulars apply HUdDART pARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge su uat, -i/lm/.
ė
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
I
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL& CLta.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention*
Office): 44 Bridge Street. Sidney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency. Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
o~* rmiii,,*.. Severn TVl>lhonrup.
XEbe Dominion.
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion’' is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.


7
*3
5?
a
ms
m
M
f
A
sss
WM
•fcr^K
r&r 1 ?
m$K%
KSfi
ZrXl'x'&t
aaa£&^&fiaMfiS
wzty % jjEjv
iw
2tto*
MMi
Ktv*fi/i
iii:
Increased Production through Improved Methods.
Smaller paddocks, systematically grazed and top-dressed with
superphosphate and
SULPHATE OF AMMONIA
which establishes a better balance between the true grasses and
the clovers, are the fundamental principles of “the new system
of grassland management.” Under this system butter-fat yields
per acre increase because of the greater protein content of the
grass when grazed at the right time, and the prolongation of
the season of growth. “The new system” at work on the Berry
Experiment Farm (South Coast of New South Wales) produced
the following result:—
“On an area of land which had been divided into three parts for the
purpose of experiments, the improved pasture was nothing less than
extraordinary. Pasture land, obviously worn out, covered but sparsely
with paspalum, inferior grasses, and weeds, has been converted into
a luscious pasture, rich in rye, clover, and cocksfoot, in three months,
and this at a cost of £2 an acre.” — Farmer and Settler, 11/10/29*
Write for literature on the Improvement of (grasslands to
NITROGEN FERTILISERS PROPRIETARY LIMITED
360 Collins Street, Melbourne, or Box 481 A.A., G.P.0., Sydney.
HOW
Rashes do Itch/
BATHE them freely with Cuticura Soap
and hot water, dry gently, and apply
Cuticura Ointment. It is surprising
how quickly the irritation and itching
stop and after a few treatments the rash
disappears. There is nothing better for
all forms of skin troubles.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
,v HAIR
HIRES
•umy -
1
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The _ well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
CMEXICAN)
UkUnut SioJurt
♦removes the grey**
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
1] unobtainable locally, posted
direct (•}/<»), 6d. being postage.
HP
PROVED!
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Once you have tried
LODGE
PLUGS
you will never choose any
other make.
That is why you find them in
most cars to-day.
Stocked by all garages through-
out the Commonwealth.
LODGE SB,
fin. American
(long reach).
Price, 6/-
In sealed bronze
metal box.
9o 0
m
m
/
LODGE PLUGS,
LIMITED.,
Rugby, England.
d
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak without Notes, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
Business, Robbery, etc.
South Aus. is anxious to grow peanuts, but
is discouraged by its Director of Agriculture.
“You can’t compete with regions' where
there is more summer rain,” he says. “Irri-
gation is too costly. The bulk of the crop
will always be grown in Queensland, N.S.W.
and possibly Central and North Australia.”
* * * *
“Pere Buzza”: Any horticulturist who
hopes to draw £lOOO from the London “Daily
Mail” if he succeeds in producing a musk
fiower with the real musk scent (B. 30/4/’3O)
is doomed to disappointment, for the paper
has just denied making any such offer. The
“Daily Mail” has given valuable prizes for
scented roses and scented carnations, but
not for the musk which has been high-
cultured into scentlessness.
“Viau” : Latest papers from Sydney quote
Australian-grown rice at £ll per ton. Here,
in New Guinea, I have just received a con-
signment of Singapore produce, paying £2l
per ton at the plantation,, which price in-
cludes 10s. freight from port; and there is
live meat in every bag. If the Administra-
tion could manage to enact that tenderers
provide Aussie rice for Government supplies
it would not only get better stuff but it
would be helping some of my old battalion
cobbers.
“Sturt”: Brady or Souter ought to find
material for a ballad in the Moorara. She
has plugged about the Upper Murray waters
as a barge for generations. Now she has
been towed down 1200 miles to the open sea,
through the treacherous Murray mouth, and,
with a 50-h.p. engine installed, will take
her 140-ton part in the Gulf trade of South
Aus.
“Disc Harrow”: Just on a million cases
of fresh fruit have been shipped from Mel-
bourne this season. Last month the Fort
Bowen took 122,713 bushels, the largest
single consignment ever sent from Victoria.
The bulk goes to London and Hull, though
Hamburg is a steady market. England takes
mostly the smaller dessert sizes, but the
Teuton likes to get his teeth into something
more substantial. Total Australian exports
this season are expected to reach 34 million
cases.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Dry ice will shortly be available in
Melbourne. It has been growing in popu-
larity in the U.S. for the past five years
and threatens to displace the wet variety.
It is composed of carbon dioxide reduced by
a special process to a temperature of lOOdeg.
below zero, which is nearly as far below the
temperature of ordinary ice as boiling water
is above it. It is claimed for dry ice that it
takes up little room, evaporates instead of
making a mess all over the kitchen, and lasts
eight days in the domestic refrigerator
instead of two or three. Its fumes are harm-
less and in the course of dissipation act
as a preservative. Carba Dry Ice (Australia)
will be the manufacturers.
* * * «
“Harold Hardupp” : After the Select Com-
mittee which is investigating the tobacco
industry had heard a lot of evidence to the
effect that the Australian smoker turned up
liis nose at the Australian product, George
Wesley Saywell testified that his family had
manufactured locally-grown leaf into tobacco
away back in last century—and found a
brisk demand for it. The business was
started during the Civil War and
prospered so well that his uncle sold his fac-
tory in Park-street (where Murdoch’s stands
to-day) for six figures. And of course Say-
well’s wasn’t the first tobacco made in Aus-
tralia. “Colonial manufactured” tobacco
was advertised in Sydney as far back as
1824.
* * *
“Shep”: A suburban store recently found
itself in possession of a large second-hand
stock, most of it years out of fashion. Carry-
ing out renovations workmen started to
demolish a cavity wall that acted as a parti :
tion in the staff’s retiring-room. Where the
cavity should have been was packed with
odds and ends of flappers’ raiment, pushed
well down out of sight. The lower the wall
dropped the older the styles till the workmen
were unearthing mysteries that girls nowa-
days only read about. They were all dis-
cards, of course; it was just as obvious that
the discarders had abandoned them for selec-
tions from the goods they were supposed to
be selling.
t- :S *
There is more talk than usual these days
about superannuation, and two or three
insurance offices are canvassing hard. In
most cases bonuses lately paid figure largely
in the prospectuses; and those figures can
be taken too seriously. Superannuation
schemes have a shocking habit of costing far
more than they ought to on paper—or giving
far less benefits. The N.S.W. Railways
Fund, started in 1910, has already sucked the
Government for nearly half a million in
subsidies, and the same State’s Police Fund
had to be spoon-fed with £167,000 last year
* * * *
“R. Volt”: The Beam has developed such
an. amazing turn of speed that Amalgamated
Wireless is up against a curious problem. It
would eliminate the possibility of manual
errors if messages could be received at either
end on automatic printers. No printer has
yet been designed, however, which can operate
at the speed at which it is possible to hurl
signals from Australia to England and vice
versa. Commercial speeds of 330 words a
minute have been obtained and the normal
rate is 225 words. At these speeds the auto-
matic transmitters appear to be standing
still, as no eye can follow the rapid move-
ments of their levers; and all that the
sounders give forth is a chattering vibration
beyond the powers of the human ear to
decipher. The tape tears out of the receivers
at a terrific pace, is carved up in handy
lengths and handed to half a dozen clerks,
who translate the Morse (signals on to
ordinary typewriters. The capacity of a
single circuit is so great that, although the
beam fades out for several hours a day when
the sun shines on it, the accumulated traffic
got rid of with little difficulty. Although
the beam now carries 80 per cent, of the
total Australian traffic, the instruments are
calling for more even in the rush hours.


k
JO.
N -1
9
*WSSWW."' 1 "V )!'■ M", .JJKa
“Finger-Tip Control”—a single
button in centre of steering wheel
starts the engine and operates the
lights and horn.
The Simplest and —
Most Efficient of Engines
S~ HE simplicity of the
patented Willys-Knight
double sleeve-valve
engine results in remarkable
smoothness, efficiency and
economy. When you get
behind the wheel of a Willys-
Knight, you will agree that in
no other car will you find such
a smooth, even flow of tre-
mendous power.
In each cylinder two sturdy
metal sleeves move smoothly
and quietly up and down, one
within the other, in a protec-
tive film of oil. They emit
petrol vapor and expel burnt
gases through openings in their
sides. There are no poppet
valves or springs to require
! grinding-in or adjusting.
The style of the Willy s-Knight
sets the modern mode. When
you see the new 708 you will
agree that only among cars of
much higher price can you find
any comparison of this smart-
ness of line, harmony of color
and richness of finish.
A demonstration of the Willys-
Knight 708 will reveal its
remarkable performing ability,
while long service will prove
its dependability, rugged
endurance and exceptional
operating economy.
Any Whippet-Willy s-Knight
dealer will gladly arrange a
complete demonstration and
explain fully the simplicity
and greater efficiency of the
Knight sleeve-valve engine.
6 .Hie 1930
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
E. G. EAGER & SON, LTD.,
Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, Brisbane.
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
68-70 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
OVERLAND VICTORIA PTY., LTD.,
117-121 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne,
ADAMS MOTORS, LIMITED,
442 Murray Street, Perth.
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LTD.,
148-150 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
53-63 Bathurst Street, Hobart.


What of £145,000,000? Think of that
figure these bad times. That is what
Broken Hill has produced since “The
Barrier Miner ’ was started to help it
along. And still going strong.
Have you got anything good to sell?
Let these million-makers know about it
through “The Barrier Miner.” They
have just spared about a quarter of a
million for the coalminers.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
7
m
Monarch
Cigars.
_ Craig sAitken
h Wholesale
Distributors
Sifdney N.S.W.
A great drink this
RESCH’S D.A.
The famous DINNER ALE
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1253 of 1929..
BETWEEN IDA AMELIA RUSSELL Petitioner and
WILLIAM WALTER RUSSELL Respondent.
To WILLIAM WALTER RUSSELL late of Charles-
town New South 'Wales and Plymouth England.
TAKE NOTICE that the said IDA AMELIA
RUSSELL has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or excuse
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the sixth day
of August One thousand nine hundred and thirty
and in the event of you not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the Petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned solicitor free of
charge.
Dated this seventh day of May, 1930.
For the Registrar,
[L.s.;i D. C. DEAN,
Acting Chief Clerk in Divorce.
ABRAM LANDA, Solicitor for the Petitioner, 148
Phillip Street, Sydney.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Roseliill form was borne out at Randwick
on Saturday in the cases of Luita (Flying
Handicap), Marsala (Two-year-old Handi-
cap) and New Sweet (James Barnes
Stakes). The backing of Toper made a
market for Luita. whose supporters got 3
to 1 and better; Bartle, who is having an-
other wonderfully successful season, bounced
her out smartly, and she never looked like
being passed in the straight, though Toper
and Beckwith (a 25-to-l shot) were within
half a length of her at the end; she traversed
the “six” in lmin. lljsec. In a big field
of youngsters Marsala was allowed to go
out at 20 to 1. Colin Stephen’s filly put
in a rare finish and cut the well-backed
lihonite out of it; in the previous race,
Tattersall’s Stakes, the A.J.C: chairman had
seen his mare Voleuse, favorite once more,
beaten into third place by Glasgow (7 to 1)
and Draconic (8 to 1).
Glasgow is owned and trained by E. F.
Walker, who will look back to 1929-30 as
his memorable year. In the James Barnes
Stakes, Troilus, also from Walker’s stable,
dead-heated for second with the Sydney Cup
winner, Gwillian G., after a thrilling finish,
in which New Sweet was just a little too
good for the pair at the weights. Mares
have been very consistent this season; New
Sweet’s record for three starts is a close
second and two firsts. The betting was
3 to 1 Gwillian G. and Troilus, 7 to 2
Loquacious (who ran poorly), 4 to 1 New
Sweet and 9 to 2 Gesto; so McShortodds
was taking no risks. Pratt, who rode New
Sweet, got a rank outsider —Wally K. —
home in the last race after another excit-
ing tussle, in which Lord Eudorus (12 to 1)
and Aorangi (8 to 1) figured. Wally K’s
ring price was returned at 16 to 1, but pad-
dock tote punters got £6 12s. for 10s. (there
were two other divs.), and leger people
£5 for ss.
For Moorefield on Saturday:—
Kogarah Stakes : Gibsontea; next, Starlike.
Flying Handicap: Boss Poppy; next.
Bunkum.
Moorefield Handicap: Eden Hall; next,-
M oorgas.
Carlton Welter : Cool Dan ; next, Shekels.
•H iji
Myarin’s trip to Sydney was profitable to
Dr. Pritchard, his owner, and it evidently did
the horse good. In the Nonga Handicap, a
race for apprentice riders, at Moonee Valley
on Saturday, the Carwelkin gelding gave a
capital exhibition of galloping to the joy of
the large number who took the price offered,
4 to 1 (Blackbird w-as favorite at 5 to 2).
Second Wind, from Westralia, was in the
market, but was unable to get a place; an
outsider, Maggie Carilla, was closest to
Myarin at the judge’s box, with the well-
backed Hyde Park third.
Another horse well known at Randwick
captured the Banya Hurdle—Horoscope, who
ran second to Don Moon in the 1927 Don-
caster. The chestnut is furnishing into a
pretty fair hurdler, and so is Affirm, who
was a fast-finishing- third. Horoscope was
backed for pounds" shillings and pence at
fours; Affirm was any price. Reviser, top-
weight and favorite for the Steeple, ran a
good race, but tired and was beaten by Fred
Brown (6 to 1) and Cliaumont (20 to 1),
who will probably have as big a following
as eveij this winter. He has a trick of flat-
tering his supporters at the beginning of
the season. The younger Walter Ilicken-
botham collected a double, with Ideal Prince
(5 to 1) in the Two- and Three-year-old
Handicap and Gracwin (2 to 1) in the
Morang Handicap. Bastian rode Ideal
Prince ; Dewliurst the other.
* * « x
James Scobie has won many good Adel-
aide races for patrons of his stable, so it
was only fitting that he should win the
Adelaide Cup with a nag of his own —
Temptation, by Royal Alwyne—Tempered.
Temptation, who had Evans on his back,
tried to make a Gwillian G. affair of it, but
Nadean, the Australian Cup winner, drew
up to him with half a mile to go, and they
entered the straight together. Scobie’s geld-
ing drew away again, but the mare battled
up to him gamely, and with Tom O’Dea’s
Kirrkie coming fast the crowd saw a great
finish. Temptation prevailed by a head,
Kirrkie being a neck behind Harry Lewis’s
mare, on whom weight told in the end. Some
Quality was favorite; Temptation’s divi-
dend for £1 was £8 155., and Nadean’s
£2 12s. Phar Lap was left in till 1.10 p.m.,
and Telford afterwards had the coolness to
announce that he had never intended to run
the horse, but had delayed scratching him
till the last moment in order to swell the
crowd. The manager of a Dempsey or a
Tunney would get an animated reception if
he did the like.
Phar Lap’s opponents in the King’s Cup
race were the Adelaide Cup place-getters,
Ividaides and Mary Spa. He gave them
HALF-WAY THROUGH.
“You can laugh, young lady, but I intend to move Heaven and earth till I can play
this game properly.”
“The way you’re going, Uncle, you'll soon have only Heaven to shift.”
all lumps of weight, (his 9st. plb. is the
greatest burden carried by a three-year-old
in a big handicap race for many years), and
beat them in a canter, in 2min. 34see.
Temptation was allowed to make the run-
ning for about a mile; then Pike took Phar
Lap up to him and the rest was easy. Three
lengths and a half was the champion’s mar-
gin at the finish; Nadean and Kirrkie dead-
heated for second place, and Temptation
was a length behind him. The div. was
£1 is.—2o to 1 on.
* *
“W.R.8.”: To say, as a Bulletin writer
did, that the report of the Queensland Royal
Commission on Racing is not w r orth the
paper it is printed on is unfair. In
1929 104 meetings were held on unregistered
courses in the Brisbane area. The commission
recommends a reduction of 62 of these meet-
ings, and eight of the 42 dates are given
over to Bundamba, a course outside the
area. It is also suggested that the unregis-
tered Coorparoo course be prohibited from
horse- or pony-racing. The commission is
given no credit for its suggestion for the
resumption by the Government of Doomben.
This would mean the death knell to Albion
Park, which would cause no regret. There
is no need for anxiety over the Government
losing on Doomben, as when offered for sale
it would be snapped up by a club in no
time. In short, the commission’s sugges-
tions are practical. It would have been use-
less prohibiting unregistered racing, as the
Government must have paid compensation,
and where would the money_liavc come from?
The V.R.C. and V.A.T.C. are altering the
penalties hitherto imposed on winners of cer-
tain handicap events. The new system will
be applied to the next Cantala Stakes and
Melbourne Cup. In the past a Cantala
candidate winning a handicap fiat race worth
from £5OO to £lOOO after August 31 has
had to carry 71b. extra, or 101 b. if the win
was worth more than four figures. Winners
of the Metropolitan and the Caulfield Cup
had to hump 101 b. extra in the Melbourne Cup,
while winners of other handicap flat races
of 14 miles or over after August 31 (the
Hotham Handicap excepted) were put up
71b. The new scheme provides for the re-
handicapping of a winner of £lOOO or over
for the Cantala and the Cup, the extra
weight not to exceed 101 b., and provision is
made for prompt publication of the imposts.
The V.A.T.C. has similarly altered the con-
ditions of the Caulfield Cup and Toorak
Handicap, with the difference that can-
didates for the Toorak must be re-liandi-
capped for winning a race worth £5OO or
over within the prescribed period. For the
Caulfield Cup fresh handicaps will be im-
posed only on winners of races worth £lOOO
and upward, the limit being 101 b. in place
of the former automatic penalty _ of 141 b.
Moonee Valley Club has fallen into line,
and will apply the new system to the Gold
Cup, to be run on October 25. The winner
of any handicap of £5OO or over after the
declaration of the weights must carry extra
weight up to 101 b. at the handicapper’s dis-
cretion.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
The return bout between Johnny Peters
and Billy McAlister provided another fistic
treat at Sydney Stadium, but this time
Peters put the issue beyond doubt by knock-
ing the Australian cold. They made the pace
a cracker, each boxer giving a great exhibi-
tion in attack and defence. They propped
one another on the ends of stiff lefts and
ripped both hands to the body, while their
ducking and footwork were very smart.
From the Seventh Peters put more weight
into his punches and took the offensive. In
the twelfth he ripped a right to the body
and McAlister sank to the floor claiming a
low punch. Struggling up he tried to fig'ht
back, but Peters fought him off, and finally
dropped him for keeps. Peters, Sst. 5|lb.;
McAlister, Sst. 4Mb.
Footbrawl
Since it beat St. Kilda and pushed Colling-
wood hard, Hawthorn, the baby of Vic.
League clubs, is in the boom, and Saturday
saw a< 25,000 crowd squeeze into the little
ground alongside Glenferrie station. Carlton
was the opponent, and it took the visitors all
they knew to get home. They marked
correctly, but in speed, system and quick
handling they were inferior to the home side.
The latter got a 3-point lead nearing the
end, but Carlton put in some do-or-die dashes
and, with better training and the coolness of
experience, forced three goals, gaining the
day with 87 to 72. Hawthorn needs only ex-
perience and hard practice to grow into a
first-class team. On their own ground the
Richmonders lost to Essendon, and with
three defeats their chance of the minor
premiership is already gone. They relied
on close, forceful play, which meant
inaccurate goal shooting, while Essendon’s
midget forwards skirmished round and made
the most of their chances. They got 12
goals 7 behinds to Richmond’s 10 goals 17
behinds. Melbourne visited Fitzroy and
after a tough struggle and desperate finish
returned undefeated —103 points to 90. At
Geelong, some 17,000 enthusiasts coughed
up £268 12s. to see St. Kilda handed their
second defeat —Geelong 70 points, St. Kilda
60. At Albert Parle, a few 1 thousands more
parted £380 to see what South Mel-
bourne could do with Collingwood. The
Woodsmen are getting into their stride,
and, sparking in all plugs, methodically com-
piled 115 points to 81. Footscray outed
North Melbourne by 116 points to 74, but
the circumstance is hardly worth mention-
ing-
Pla<y was close in the Rugby Union fixtures
Tor the Shute Shield in Sydney on Saturday,
two matches being drawn, while the margins
in the others were slight. Manly came close
to beating Randwick at the seaside oval. For
three-quarters of the game, the home side
smothered the opposition backs, and only
a desperate rally in the last quarter and
three goals from Croslsman’s boot _ made
scores level, 11 all. Manly’s back division is
a much improved one, and in Leckie they
have a wing threequarter of exceptional
promise. Loudon and Abbott set a hot
pace for the Manly pack. Western Suburbs
beat Glebe-Balmain at the Cricket Ground
9-3, scoring three tries. St. George
surprised by drawing 8-8 with the promising
young Uni. side at Hurstville. Farleigh
played a great game as Saints’ fullback.
Uni., 8 down at half time, came with a great
rush in the second spell, but the Saints
defended dourly. At Uni. Oval, Northern
Suburbs beat Eastern by a point (14-13).
* * * s|:
“Harlequin”: J. S. R. Reeve, the star
wing-threequarter in the British Rugby
Union side now in Maoriland, is an un-
usual sort of footballer. When he went from
Rugby to Cambridge it was with a reputa-
tion as a track athlete. He took up hockey,
and when bad weather prevented play, he
decided to fill in the time with Rugby.
Before he knew what had happened, he was
in the Pembroke XV, and later a Blue and
an international cap descended upon him.
This season he figured with success against
Scotland,’Wales and France, and' big things
are expected of him on this tour. Outside
internationals, he plays for Harlequins and
Middlesex.
:!: * *
The Rugby League grade competitions in
Sydney saw South Sydney experience one of
its rare lickings, and that at the boots of
its old rival, Eastern Suburbs, the Tricolors
winning convincingly 25-11, or 5 tries, 5
goals to 3 tries and a goal. Hardy, the
Eastern centre, was in sterling form, scoring
twice and opening up the game for his backs,
while Hong wans very reliable at fullback.
Balmain got the better of Newtown at Went-
worth Park by 18-14. Down a point in the
first half, Balmain scored 10 to 5 in the
second. Goal kicking was good, Ellis notch-
ing 4 for Newtown, and Chin 3 for the
winners. Western Suburbs gained the lead
in the competition by boating St. George-
18-3 at Pratten Park. The Saints spoiled
determinedly, and infringements were plenti-
ful. St. George’s points came, from a
penalty try, an unusua-l happening. At
North Sydney Oval, the home side had little
trouble "in downing University 18-5. The
game was straggling, and penalties were
frequent.
(Continued on next page.)
“Lond.”: A veteran member of a club near
London recorded in his will that there was a
beech-tree near the 18th, hole which he
always hit, “with complete accuracy and
irritating monotony.” He directed that, after
cremation, his ashes should be scattered
about the hostile tree. He is dead, at 78,
and after some hesitation the quaint ceremony
has been carried out.
THE RACING CALENDAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With ardor all the year around
I strive to pick a prad that’s slicker
Than others, where the books abound
And avid punters stand and bicker
On which may be the better sticker
And which the helpless, hopeless dud;
In spring I’m not so poor a picker,
But winter racing’s up to mud.
With reason ripe and judgment sound,
Contemptuous of the childish pricker
Of race-books, soon enough I’ve found
Quite logically one that’s quicker
(Though logic’s oft a graceless tricker)
Into his stride, and blessed with blood,
And so have paid for summer liquor—
But winter punting’s up to mud.
When ripeness rots and leaves arc browned,
And nature looks a trifle sicker,
I stand on somewhat shiftier ground ;
Luck’s smile at times turns to a snicker.
For long and longer odds I dicker,
As more and more the good things thud;
For autumn fortunes flare or flicker,
But winter form is up to mud.
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


Footbrawl
“Fitzcray” : Melbourne football circles are
rejoicing in a suggestion made by a Mel-
bourne millinery firm to the secretary of
the Victorian Football Association. This
was to the effect that, if given sufficient
encouragement, the firm would manufacture
women’s hats in the colors of the leading
clubs, its emissaries having 1 oted that the
female football follower is even more ardent
in her allegiance to her heroes than the
male. To this end, the association was
asked to use its influence on club secretaries,
and to supply the names and addresses of
these to the enterprising manufacturers.
“Hotham”: Carlton and Richmond are
to carry the gospel of Australian Rules to
the heathen of N.S.W. and Queensland this
season. The clubs are to tour in conjunc-
tion, and will play matches against local
teams in addition to giving exhibition
matches. It is doubtful, however, if the
Rugby grip on the two States will ever be
lessened now. N.S.W. has been a Rugby
addict from the beginning, but in Queensland
the national game was the only wear until
the mub’eighties. which makes it all the more
surprising that it Avas superseded so effectu-
ally by the imported article.
Tenakoe ’: The British Rugby Union
team, iioav safely landed in M.L., will have one
unique experience, at least. In the four Test
matches they will go up against an All Black
side Avliich will, for the first time since
Maui arrived from Hawaii, be garbed in
snoAvy white. The reason is that the tour-
ing Britons will Avear a very dark blue
jersey, and the change is to be made to
avoid _ confusion. Nevertheless there is
gnashing of teeth among the old brigade at
the abandonment of the historic black Avith
its silver fernleaf, and prophecies of disaster
nre as plentiful as beer in a prohibition
area.
“Stand Off”: Australia will not sec the
British Rugby Union side until late in
August, the tourists opening their programme
of eight matches against Australia at Syd-
ney Cricket Ground on August 23. A match
at Neivcastle (N.S.W.) will be followed by
two against Queensland in Brisbane on
August 30 and September 1. Tavo games will
be played against N.S.W. in Sydney on
September 6 and 10, and after a game
SERT: “FA.HCV MEETiHGi you HERE*,
Bert: "world's very small
\Sm'x it ? "
&ert;"rather cp?A.rviPs> vour
Bert : Too r\c,ht ) \ HIT THR66
People vesterd^v, '>
against Victoria on September 11, the final
match of the tour will be against Westralia
at Perth on September 20.
* ❖ ❖ *
“Bowen Park”: N.S.W. and Q. Rugby
Union sides clash in Brisbane on May 31 and
June 7. Games will be played also at Warwick
and Toowoomba, the going over of the latter
to the Union game having tremendously
strengthened the amateur code in Queensland.
The Northerners should be able to field a
red-hot side this year, and the news that
several of the N.S.W. cracks will be unable
to find the time for a trip over the border has
an ominous ring about it.
:’c $
“Gate” : The N.S.W. Rugby League is in
curious difficulties with some of its per-
sonnel. The League retains a medical officer
to examine injured players and he has the
right to forbid anyone to resume the game
until fit again, this being necessary in
view of the League’s scheme of insuring
players. More than one leading player has
recently ignored the medico and turned out,
with tlie result that his trouble lias been
increased. In future, anyone playing in
defiance of doctor’s orders will forfeit all
right to insurance benefit. The player’s
point of view, of course, is that he doesn’t
want to miss his cut of the gate by not
showing—one of the inevitable outcomes of
professional sport.
The Fifteen
“Ebor”: The Australians’ match against
Yorkshire had to be abandoned when each
side had played its first knock. The tourists
replied to the Tykes’ score of 155 with 320,
Woodfull playing a characteristic shot for
121. and Don Bradman scoring a fast 78.
Victor Richardson helped with 45. Leyland,
here with Chapman, had the best bowling
figures with 3 lor 18, a«nd might have been
more utilised by Barber, the ex-Shrewsbury
schoolboy, who is this year skippering the
broad-acre county.
The Australians worked their way out of
a tight corner in the drawn match with Lan-
cashire at Liverpool, and had a win in sight
when time cut short their second innings.
There was jubilation when Lancashire went
for 156: Grimmett again dominated the
attack with 6 for 57, Hornibrook also doing
well with 3 for 46. Eckersley, Lancashire’s
skipper, punched the Australian bowling
sturdily for 54. The tune changed when five
Australian wickets went to Macdonald (3-51)
and R. Tyldesley (3-17) for 65. A gallant
stand by Kippax (40 n. 0.) and Fairfax (18)
helped the score to 115. Hornibrook took
a hand in Lancashire’s second innings, bag-
ging o for 38, Eckersley again top-scoring
with 38. Australia was left to get 227 runs
to win in four hours. No serious attempt
was made to get them and stumps saw the
score at 137 for 2 wickets (Jackson 40
Richardson 39. Bradman 48 n.o. and Kippax
6 n. 0.).
* * * ...
“Wirral”: The match against Lancashire
is the first played for years by an Australian
team on the Liverpool Club’s ground at Aig-
burth in the outskirts of Liverpool. No
Test _ has ever been played there, though
Birmingham has been honored with one or
two. Why, it is difficult to understand, for
Uie Liverpool ground is one of the best in
England, m appointments and all else, while
the wicket is perfect under decent weather
conditions. Liverpool Club at its strongest
is practically Lancashire, the Ilornbys,
bteels, Reg Spooner and many another
famous Lancashire amateur having been
borne on its books, though as far as memory
serves A. C. Maclaren was never a member.
* * * #
“Old Q.”: One of the gratifying aspects
ot the tour m the success of Hornibrook, who
has taken wickets with fair consistency on
pitches—with the exception of that encoun-
tered in the first innings of the Essex side—
not by any means suited to a left-hander of
his type. In his four matches up to the
close of Lancashire’s first innings at Aig-
burtli the Queensland left-hander had taken
1(> wickets for an average of 7.18. A critic
who scathingly opposed his selection in Aus-
tralia has now been reduced to slating Horni-
brook’s slip-fielding. The latter retorted by
catching Hallows and Macdonald in Lanca-
shire’s first innings.
* * * *
“Canny Lad”: Some of the Australian
cricket writers are pessimistic about the
effect of the bad weather experienced to
date on the gate takings. There seems to be
no particular reason for this since atten-
dances at the county matches away from
the metropolitan area have never been
remarkable in England. It is the Tests at
Lords and the Oval which draw the big
money, while those at Old Trafford, Leeds
and even Trent Bridge invariably return a
handsome credit balance. The weather played
havoc with attendances in some of the early
matches of the 192 G team under Collins. As
June comes in it is good betting that a
typical English summer will succeed the
equally typical English spring conditions.
The Watermen
.C. N. McKay, stroke of the Victorian
eight which won the King’s Cup at Mannum,
is a member of the famous family that
first placed Australian-made agricultural
machinery on the commercial map. Eleven
years ago, when captain of Melbourne Scotch
College, he stroked the school crew which
tied with St. Xavier for Head of the Yarra,
and won the re-row an hour afterwards.
=i= * * *
“Blade” : According to the N.S.W. oarsmen,
who returned from South Australia last week,
their chance of winning the King’s Cup was
marred by a curious accident. The crew
got away with a good lead at the gun,
but a second shot was taken as a signal of
recall by the boats, which ceased rowing.
It turned out that the starter had accidentally
discharged his pistol, and a* fresh start had
to be made. This time Victoria jumped
out first and established a lead which the
Welshmen could not wear down. At the
same time, the Westralians, who dropped out
with a broken slide, had even more reason
to bewail their luck, but so fa<r have had no
complaints to make.
# * * *
“Catch”: State rowing organisations have
been finding King’s Cup racing an expensive
business—N.S.W. for one is close on £5OO
to the bad for the season. A meeting of the
Australian Council in Adelaide has decided
that the next race shall be in 1932 on the
Yarra, and the following one in Brisbane two
years later. After that, if all goes well, the
yearly system will be reverted to, kicking
off at Hobart in 1935.
Racquet and Brawl
Australia emerged triumphant from the
second round of the Davis Cup against Ire-
land, and will now meet England. In the
opening singles, Crawford polished off
Maguire in three straight sets. Moon had
a stiff tussle with the giant Rogers, scoring
the winning ace at the end of 5 sets and
57 games. The doubles were easily taken.
6-4, 6-3, 6-2, by Hopman and Willard.
* * ' * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Britain is having
trouble with the tennis female of the species.
Dorothy Round has refused to appear for
England in the French championships if any
games are played on the Sabbath, as most of
them are sure to be in wicked Paris. Eileen
Bennett, about the best of the English
flappers, has also refused to go unless she
is allowed to stay at a separate pub with
her mamma. Eileen has been left out of the
side by the indignant selectors. This is the
damsel who declined to go to America for
the Wightman Cup series unless both her
parents went too at the L.T.A.’s expense.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: A light was thrown on the
eternal question of the amateur status which
so few of us understand when Mary Browne,
second only to Helen Wills in the sheerarchy
of American tennis, was re-admitted as an
a*mateur to membership of the United States
Golf. Association. Mary took the wrong
turning when she joined Vincent Richards,
Suzanne, Paul Feret and several others with
the idea that there were bags of brass in
professional tennis. Suzanne, with charac-
teristic French logic, got out of the game
early a*nd took to selling frocks. Richards,
perhaps the greatest all-round Yank of them
all, has fallen back on the lucrative game of
coaching. Mary, however, is the best Ameri-
can golferess in sight outside Glenna Collett.
America badly wants to win the women’s
match again from the Britons. So, though the
Yankee tennis heads still class her as a
professional, Mary has now the imprimatur
of amateur stamped on her by the U.S.G.A.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hamilton": The Queensland golf cham-
pionships at Brisbane, which begin this week,
have attracted a good entry from N.S.W.,
but the only Victorian representative of
note is Arthur Spence of the Yarra Yarra
(Vic.) club, formerly a professional in
Queensland. Len Nettlefold, the Tasmanian
left-hander, who holds the State amateur title,
will not. defend it, so the going looks good
for J. N. Radcliffe, whom Queenslanders rate
as one of the best amateurs pla*ying in
Australia, though he could not turn out last
year. His toughest opponent appears to be
S. A. Keane, the N.S.W. Wiudejmr Cup rep.
“Divot Digger”: Steel-shafted clubs have
not been long finding favor in Australia.
A batch examined the other day has the
steel shafts coppered against rust, while the
shaft screws into the head—a new feature.
Though they are less Avhippy than good hick-
ory, players using them already claim that
they can get more distance with them. An-
other claim made for them is that if the ball
is hit with heel or toe of the club, it is not
hooked or sliced, as with the wooden club,
but goes straight, for what it is worth.
The explanation is that the steel shaft has
less “torque,” as the engineers say, than
the hickory variety.
“Bow Bells”: Who says there is no
romance in golf? The cables have lately
been gushing over the case of one Miss
Hollins, a damsel who earned a poor but
honest living as a designer of golf courses.
The young lady invested her savings in
oil, with the result that she is now a mil-
lionairess. Some years ago, she and two
other golferesses entered into a pact that the
first to make a fortune should give the others
a cut. Remembering this, the lucky lady
has now forwarded a cheque for 100,000
dalders to each of her one-time mates, and
all propose to live happily ever after.
=l= * *
“Mynheer” : There is interest in the news
that Holland is taking eagerly to golf, new
clubs coming to light all over that flat anti
somewhat damp country. It is really a
return, for golf was played in the “Lowlands
of Holland” 300 years ago and more, as
much contemporary literature and many
drawings and paintings go to prove. There
has been fierce controversy as to whether the
royal and vituperative game first originated
in Holland or Scotland. Modern research
goes to show that it was the Scots who
introduced golf to the Netherlands. For
several centuries before the Union Holland
was a sanctuary for outlawed Scots, while
many Scottish students and soldiers of for-
tune thronged the famous Dutch universities
or fought under the Princes of Orange. These,
it is claimed, introduced the game which is
now reviving in its old haunts.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: English golf professionals a*re
fond of complaining that there is nothing like
the _ money in the game for them that is
available for their American confreres.
Archie Compston, who gave Hagen the hiding
of his life in their match in England last
year, must be a*:i exception. He won £l5OO
in the Southport tourney, the other day, his
score of 285—under 4’s for the 72 holes—
being a record for the Lancashire seaside
course. Horton Smith, hailed as the coining
American champion, was second. He is
expected to visit Australia next year.
Car and Cycle
“Clutch”: Though the Sydney Bicycle and
Motor Club had villainous weather for its
meeting on Gerringong Beach (N.S.W.), isom e
good results were achieved. The outstanding
performance was that of W. B. Thompson’s
well-known 1496 c.c. supercharged Bugatti.
This car won both the principal events,
the club championship and the handicap for
cars under 2tQOO c.c. capacity, at speeds of
over 75 m.p.h. The Bugatti also tackled the
beach record for a flying mile, and hit up
97.8 m.p.h. This bettered Thompson’s own
previous figures iu the same ca>r by two
rn.p.h., but was short of the record of lOi .14
m.p.h. standing in the name of D. J* dark-
ness.
* *
“Whizz”: The annual 24-liour motor race
on Brooklands track brought a big entry from
British and Continental car makers, and was
marred by a serious accident which resulted,
in two drivers and a spectator being killed.
The event was won by a< British Bentley
driven by Captain Woolf Barnato, who
covered 2080 miles at the rate of 86.68 m.p.h.
Of the 59 entries, only 27 finished, none of
the Continental machines catching a place.
One woman driver, Mrs. Bruce, competed
but did not finish. The race was run in
two daylight spells of 12 hours each, cars
being locked up for the night.
* * * *
“Hoppit”: American pedestrians need to
be agile. Speed limits have been abolished in
most of the States, and life must be full of
excitement for the footsloggers, if any still
survive. The Millers, designers mostly of high -
powered racers, have just finished a road-
ster for a wealthy customer. Costing £5OOO,
the jigger has a V 8-cylinder engine. All out
it can do 150 m.p.h., but the makers con-
solingly announce that it is not expected to
exceed 120 m.p.h. while “cruising” on the
public highway!
Duncan (“Don”) Kirkliam, dead in Vic-
toria at 44, was one of the greatest all-round
wheelmen Australia has produced. He put
up some wonderful road performances when
the going was much worse, than it is to-day,
and he was equally formidable on tin- tracks,
especially in the six-days’ racing popular 20
years ago. lie began his record-breaking
career in 1910, and perhaps his outstanding
feat of that day was the winning of a special
prize for the first 100 miles un paced out
and home on the road, under five hours.
Kirkliam did it in 4hr. 36min. and the record
stands to-day.
Miscellaneous
Carl Willis, who died the other day at
Berrigan (N.S.W.), was a fine cricketer who,
somehow, never achieved his deserts in the
game. One of the famous A.I.F. side, he
was a sterling batsman and a magnificent
fieldsman in the country. Though he fre-
quently played for Victoria after the war, he
was usually called upon as a substitute for
someone else, and could never count him-
self a regular member of the State XI. Yet
he made 762 runs in Sheffield cricket for an
average of 23.09, and won the match against
N.S.W. at Sydney in 1925, after the home
side had made 614, with a century which
helped the Victorian score to 502 and a vic-
tory by seven wickets.
* * * #
“Blue Chalk”: In spite of his astonishing
performances with the cue in Britain, Walter
Lindrum, just returned to Australia, finds
that he has barely paid expenses. Small halls
and low prices are blamed, but next year he
is returning under a contract which promises
to yield a respectable profit. It is the old
story. Any fifth-rate pug, barely removed
from the Neanderthal Man type, can pick up
a profit of some hundreds in a couple of
exhibitions in Britain or America, while a
genuine artist in a game which demands high
intelligence and almost supernatural skill in
its exponents is fortunate if he can raise
his fare home.
s': * s':
“Splash” : The N.S.W. women’s swimming
authorities are mightily disgruntled over the
refusal of the Empire Games selectors to
send_ any women to Canada. The other
day it was resolved, after a stormy meeting
in which things w r ere said that must have
made the selectors’ ears tingle, to approach
one of the Sydney newspapers and ask
for a donation which would enable a couple
of our best girl swimmers and a chaperon
to go to Hamilton. It is understood that
the telephone attendants in most of Sydney’s
newspaper offices have been instructed to
reply to all queries as to the whereabouts of
the managing director with the information
that he has hurriedly departed by ’plane for
Kerguelen or Tristan da Cunha and is not
expected back for some time.
❖ :■<
“Grimaldi” : It has just been stated that
most of the mysterious gentlemen who
allegedly hail from Kamschatka or similar
localities and delight the Australian wrest-
ling public with noble showmanship are
in reality common Australians. One indivi-
dual with an imposing name made up largely
of consonants was said to be a Victorian,
though this he indignantly denies. If the
charge is true, it means the end of the wrest-
ling obsession in this country. Few Aus-
tralians will pay good money to wa.tcli
Caskowiski performing once they realise he
is just a plain Aussie from Fitzroy or Surry
Hills. The majority like to think that their
heroes arc imported, like their hats, motor-
cars and fillums.'


ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
MORETON BAY (RS.) BREWING CO
LIMITED
BRISBANE
Registered under the Queensland Companies Acts 1863-1913
NOMINAL CAPITAL £350,000
Divided into
£350,000 350,000 Ordinary Shares at £1 each.
250,000 Shares of £1 per Share now offered for public subscription . . . . £250,000
10,000 Shares to be allotted to vendors as fully-paid Shares at £1 each . . £lO,OOO
90,000 Shares at £1 each held in reserve for later issue on terms to be decided at
the discretion of the Directors . . . . . . . . . . .. .... £90,000
£350,000 £350,000
PAYMENT FOR SHARES.
5/- per Share on Application, 5/- per Share on Allotment, and the balance in calls not exceeding 2/6 per
' Share at intervals of not less than one month.
Directorate:
COLONEL DANIEL E. EVANS, D. 5.0., Chairman,
Chairman of Directors of Evans, Deakin and
Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
NORMAN S. H. CATTS, Esq., Chairman of Directors,
Catts-Patterson Co., Ltd., Sydney.
THOMAS R. HALL, Esq., T. R. Hall & L. B.
Phillips, Architects, Brisbane.
HENRY A. C. DOUGLAS, Esq., Chairman of Direc-
tors. Elliott, Donaldson & Douglas, Ltd., Bris-
bane.
SIDNEY C. WEBB, Esq., 8.A., LL.B., Barrister-at-
Law, Chancery Chambers, Sydney.
BANKERS:
Eng-lish, Scottish & Australian Bank, Ltd., Queen
Street, Brisbane.
SOLICITORS:
Thynne & Macartney, A.M.P. Buildings, Brisbane.
AUDITORS:
Flack & Flack, Chartered Accountants, Eagle Street,
Brisbane.
SECRETARIES:
Tanner & Buchanan, Public Accountants, Commerce
House (4th floor), Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
ARCHITECTS:
Bohringer, Taylor & Johnson Pty., Ltd., 77 King
Street, Sydney.
GENERAL MANAGER:
Henry Walter Haenggi, Esq. (formerly Manager of
Richmond (N.S.) Brewing Co., Melbourne.)
REGISTERED OFFICE.
Commerce House (4th floor)), Adelaide Street,
Brisbane. G.P.O. Box 458 f.
ISSUING HOUSE:
The Bond Underwriting Corporation, Ltd., Rofe
Chambers, 19 O’Connell Street, Sydney, and Com-
merce House (4th Floor), Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
G.P.O. Box 458 f.
Objects.
The objects of the Company are:—
1. —To acquire from the vendor (The Bond Under-
writing Corporation, Ltd.) the sole rights to
manufacture in the State of Queensland products
under the Nathan Process of Brewing (as covered
by Letters Patent Nos. 3806/21 and 1483/26).
2. To erect and operate in Queensland a complete
Brewery, including Plant and Machinery, etc., to
be supplied by the Nathan Institute of Zurich,
Switzerland, for the purpose of turning such
rights to profitable account.
The Board of Directors.
In any new commercial undertaking a great deal
necessarily depends upon the personnel of the admini-
strative body. In this connection it is believed that
no venture could be more favorably placed in
respect of its Board than this company. Colonel
Evans, who is Chairman of the Board of Directors,
is prominent in Queensland commercial circles as
the Chairman of Directors of Evans, Deakin & Co.,
Ltd., the well-known Queensland engineers.
Mr. Douglas is Chairman of Directors of the firm
of Elliott, Donaldson & Douglas, Ltd., Wholesale
Merchants, of Brisbane. This firm is well-known
as a leading Ale, Wine and Spirit Distributor in
Queensland. The long and intimate experience Mr.
Douglas will place at the disposal of the company
will be of incalculable value in connection with the
distribution and marketing of the- product of the
Brewery.
Mr. Norman S. 11. Catts is well-known in Sydney
commercial circles as the Chairman of Directors of
Catts-Patterson Co., Ltd., of Sydney, Melbourne and
New Zealand. Mr. Catts is also Chairman of
Directors of Commonwealth and Dominion Agencies,
Ltd., Sydney, and other successful Sydney com-
mercial enterprises.
Mr. Hall, a. member of the firm of T. R. Hall and
L. B. Phillips, Architects, of Brisbane, is certainly
one of the best-known architects in Queensland
to-day. The new Brisbane Town Hall, just recently
opened, is but one .of the many fine specimens of
work with which Mr. Hall has been associated. Mr.
Hall ia also Chairman of Tattersall’s Club, Brisbane.
Mr. 'Webb is a well-known member of the New
South Wales Bar and has specialised in commercial
causes. He has beer, associated with the various
negotiations with the Nathan Institute in Australia
since their inception.
It will thus be seen that the company has the
advantage of an exceptionally strong Board of
Directors, whose successful and varied experiences
will justify the highest confidence that the interests
of shareholders will be efficiently safeguarded.
Description of tKe Nathan Brewing
Process.’
Professor Dr. L. Nathan’s invention of a new Fer-
menting Vessel for- Beer Brewing is the most im-
portant invention ever made in the brewing trade.
His system starts when the boiling wort leaves the
brew copper, and the main idea is that the brew
does not come in contact with the air during the
whole process of cooling and fermenting until the
beer is filled in bottles or casks. Therefore, the
product is free of all contamination. The most im-
portant fact of the Nathan System is the reduction
of the fermenting period from three months to
twelve days. This means enormous savings in
building and working costs as well as capital out-
lay for lager in stock in the storage tanks, as well
•as for the necessary storage plant. Analysis proves
that the lager leaving the Nathan Vessel after
twelve days is exactly the same as lager stored
during three months. The keeping qualities of the
Nathan Beer are better, and there is no necessity
to use preservatives.
Besides this enormous advantage, the Nathan System
enables the brewer to collect the CO 2 Gas produced
during the fermentation, three to four pounds per
22 gallons of beer, which can be. liquefied after
purification and filled into steel cylinders. Thera
is a ready sale for this gas.
The easy control of the beer in fermentation enables
the Brewer to produce exactly the same quality of
beer all the year round, independent of changes in
climatic conditions, one of the most important factors
in the beer trade.
The beer and lager produced by the Nathan System
is absolutely uniform in quality, irrespective of
local conditions of water supply.
A Brilliant Success in Australia.
The Nathan Process has proved a great success
wherever installed; and, since 1920, breweries with
a yearly output of millions of gallons have been
erected and: fitted in Europe, South America, Aus-
tralia, Africa, Panama, India and other countries.
In Australia, the Walkerville Brewing Company in
Adelaide started to use the Nathan System in addi-
tion to their regular brew in August, 1928, with
four vessels, and now have installed eight vessels.
Cascade Brewery Company, Tasmania, installed a
plant producing 500 hogsheads (27,000 gallons) per
week, with great success.
The Nathan Process of Brewing is not new to the
general public who have visited Melbourne, as the
famous Richmond Beer, which has taken the whole
of Melbourne by absolute storm, is manufactured
under this process. The Richmond Brewery in
Melbourne started brewing under this process in
October, 1928, with seven vessels, giving them an
output of 90,000 gallons per month. To-day they
have twenty-one vessels installed, giving them an
output of 270,000 gallons per month. Yet so
great is the demand for this lager that they are
again increasing their plant, and have ordered a
further enlargement in order to keep pace with the
enormous increase in the demand in Victoria, for
which State they have the sole rights of manu-
facture under the Nathan Process of Brewing.
Instance after instance is on record where small
houses were practically out of business until they
put up the sign “Richmond Beer.” These houses
to-day are doing an enormous business, and have
been transformed from unprofitable to extremely
profitable houses, solely through the public preference
and demand for Richmond Beer.
The effect of this public preference for Richmond
Beer upon the Melbourne hotel business has been
more than remarkable. Naturally, the first distri-
bution was secured through small houses. Many
of these at the time were struggling; but they
have all been brought to the front rank of the
Victuallers’ trade through the demand for this
prdduct. There are more than fifty hotels in Mel-
bourne, and oyer twenty-five in the country in Vic-
toria, selling Nathan System Richmond Beer. Their
average increase in turnover is no less than 300
per cent., and some of them can prove increases
of from 400 to 500 per cent.
Estimate of Expenditure, Income and
Profits.
In estimating the probable expenses and trading
figures for the first year, the expenditure side
has been estimated on the assumption that the plant
will be working at its full capacity, the only excep-
tions being the costs of the three principal ingred-
ients used, and Excise Duty, all of which are
estimated on 75 per cent, production. On the other
hand, the estimated revenue and profit have been
determined on the basis of volume of trade equalling
only 75 per cent, of the full capacity. It will,
therefore, be realised that the figures are extremely
conservative.
Estimated Approximate Cost of Plant,
Stock and Machinery.
It is estimated that the total cost of buildings,
ground, insta Ration of brewery, brewery plant, in-
cluding freight, duty, etc., stock, cartage plant,
casks and hogsheads, delivery cases, gas cylinders,
patent rights, brokerage and preliminary expenses,
as per details published in prospectus, will amount
to £259,250.
Estimated Approximate Trading Expenses.
It is estimated that the total trading expenses,
including office expenses, general manager, secretaries,
accountant, clerks, travellers, brewery expenses, in-
cluding Head Brewer and Second Brewer, foreman,
enginedrivers, chief engineer, labor, cartage and
delivery, advertising, barley malt, hops, sugar, oil
and fuel, electricity, water, brewery license, cooper-
age, rates and taxes, insurance, Excise Tax, deprecia-
tion and unforeseen expenses, wiU amount to
£232,380.
Estimated Revenue.
(On average production of 1,620,000 gallons per
year.)
By sale of 1,620,000 gallons of lager and ale per
year as follows:
972,000 gaßons of lager, at bulk price
of 3/9 per gallon net, including all
rebates and allowances .. .. £182,250
648,000 gallons of beer at bulk price
of 3/6 per gallon net, including aH
rebates and allowances .. .. 113,400
By sale of by-products, such as CO2 Gas,
yeast, etc., say .. 1,000
£296,650
NOTE: Neither of the estimates of revenue includes
any increased profits which may be made by the
sale of lager and beer as bottled products.
Estimated Profits.
(On average sale of 1,620,000 gallons per year.)
The above statements of estimated expenses and
revenue show that the expenses, figured on full
production and including the carrying of stock, de-
preciation, etc., amount to £232,380, against which
is estimated a revenue of £296,050, leaving a
grass profit of £64,270, less Income Tax of, say,
5/- in the £, which amounts to £16,067/10/-,
leaiving a net profit of £48,202/10/-, sufficient to
pay a dividend at the rate of, say, 15 per cent.
per annum, after providing £9202/10/- for reserves
and writing off Preliminary Expenses.
General Remarks.
The Directors would like to point out to the public
that the proposition for the manufacture in Queens-
land of Beer under the Nathan Process has received
encouraging support from prominent Licensed Vic-
tuallers in Queensland, who have signified their
intention of installing this beer in their hotels
when produced.
Property and Location.
The Directors have under consideration at the present
time several suitable sites in the City of Brisbane,
which are available at advantageous prices and terms.
The choice of such sites has, however, been deferred
for the fuller consideration of the directors.
Preliminary Expenses.
The preliminary expenses prior to the incorporation
of the Company will be borne by the Company. It
is estimated that, apart from Brokerage, these ex-
penses will not exceed £2500, and the contract with
the vendor provides that this amount must not be
exceeded.
Brokerage.
A commission of not exceeding 7A per cent, is pay-
able to The *Bond Underwriting Corporation, Ltd.,
as Issuing House, on all shares subscribed, out of
which they pay the sum of Is. per share on any
application bearing the stamp of any firm of brokers
registered on any recognised Stock Exchange in
the Commonwealth.
Qualification and Remuneration of
Directors.
The qualification of the directors in this Company
is the holding of 500 shares. Their remuneration
is to be fixed by the Company in General Meeting.
Allotment.
The directors of the Company bind themselves that
the minimum subscription on which the Company
may proceed to allotment shall be 150,000 shares.
Should the Company not proceed to allotment, appli-
cation moneys will be returned in full.
As this is a Brewery Flotation offering the general
public participation at par, the Board cannot agree
to allot the full number of shares applied for (In
the event of over-subscription) and reserves to itself
the right to allot any lesser number and to refund
the balance of moneys paid in.
Conditions.
VENDOR’S CONSIDERATION: The Vendor (The
Bond Underwriting Corporation, Limited) is to
receive the sum of £35,000 ( £25,000 in cash and
£lO,OOO in shares) being in full payment for the
assignment of their sole rights, title, etc., for the
State of Queensland in respect of the Nathan Process
of Brewing. The full consideration is not payable
to the vendor until 200,000 shares have been sub-
scribed.
Contracts.
Copies of Contracts may be inspected at the offices
of the Solicitors of the Company, Messrs. Thynne
and Macartney, Brisbane.
Listing on the Brisbane Stock Exchange.
Tha Articles of Association, Memorandum, etc., have
been drawn up to conform with the Rules of the
Brisbane Stock Exchange, and it is intended to
apply to have the shares listed on the Brisbane
Stock Exchange at an early date.
Application for shares must be made upon the form
attached to the Prospectus, and may be lodged
at the Registered Office of the Company, or any
recognised Stock Brokers who are Members of the
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth or Brisbane
Stock Exchanges, and also on the Sydney and
Melbourne Stock Exchanges.
Application for Prospectus.
To the Directors,
MORETON BAY (N.S.) BREWING CO., LIMITED,
Commerce House (Fourth Floor), Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Gentlemen,
Please send me a copy of the prospectus of the Moreton Bay (N.S.) Brewing Co., Limited.
NAME IN FULL
(Mr., Mrs. or Miss)
ADDRESS IN FULL
NOTE: If more convenient, this application may be forwarded to The Bond Underwriting Corporation, Ltd., 19 O’Connell Street, Sydney, or care of
Godden & Vale, Public Accountants, Stock Exchange Building, Little Collins Street, Melbourne.


iofoi
re
CAPSTANS
w
ir'
/
A
km
21/
Q
ss
©a.:
Vj
£
HOW iS IT DONE?
ometimes you hear people say,
“How is it that cigarettes of such
high quality as CAPSTANS can be
sold at eleven for sixpence while other
cigarettes are much more costly?”
The answer is summed up in one
word POPULARITY. At least ten
times as many CAPSTANS are smok-
ed as is the case with any other brand.
This means that whilst the profit pel?
packet is very small, the huge turn-
over makes it possible to use the
finest tobacco that money can buy*,
You cannot buy a better cigarette)
than a CAPSTAN —that is why it!
is always safe to bet
—lO to 1 ii’s a CAPSTAN*
V
'AN
Cigar etied
11 for 6d., 22 for 1/-, and in tins and boxes of 50.
Also oval heavyweights in tins of 25 and 50,
CAPSTANS are made by W. D. & H. 0. Wills at the Garden Factory, Raleigh Park, N.StWi


The “Hit-or-Miss” Man
Usually Misses
THE “hit-or-miss,” man may
start out in business, but he
is not likely to make a success
of it. Successful business to-day
is being: conducted on the basis
of known principles. With the
co-operation of the leading: busi-
ness authorities of the world, the
A.H.I. has assembled these prin-
ciples in its Modern Business
Course, with which goes a, fine
supporting monthly service. You
will be interested in the absorb-
ing booklet, “Forging Ahead in
Business.” It describes this
course and service in detail. Send
for your copy to-day.
ALEXANDER HAMILTON INSTITUTE
Controlled in Australia by
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON.
MELBOURNE: 38 Bank House, Bank Place
410-12 Collins Street.
SYDNEY: 38 Barrack House, Barrack Street.
fsd
Leipzig Trade Fair
GERMANY
fsd
THE GREATEST OF ALL TRADE FAIRS
(TWICE YEARLY.)
Autumn Fair, Incorporating Engineering and
Building Fairs, starts AUGUST 31, 1930
INQUIRIES INVITED, INFORMATION GLADLY GIVEN BY:—
LARS G. RRUNDAHL,
121 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.SAV.
0. N. KEPPEL,
C/o Marcard Lund & Co., Idd.,
Post Office Place,
Melbourne, Vic.
“Germany invites the display of Australian Primary Products
for presentation to the World’s Buyers.”
Under
Royal
Vi&rrant-
fsd
To H.M.
Kiri*
George V
Vintage 1920.
munis
Australasian Agents
S wift & Company U mita i
SYDNEY.
{ rsj/jMr/Jtfl
GiarlesUeidsiet - •
PELLISSOIM
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrer.w—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Have you
ordered
Kraft Chease?
Before our hew State Exes, are inside the
Heads charity workers are building plans
around their probable presence at ball, fete
and theatrical performance. Social Sydney
is hoping they woip’t be too • domesticated.
Committees are hoping he will be a good
speaker. The Games come from Somerset,
but there is no reason to suppose that
“Would ’ee have zum zider?” will replace
“Would you care for an ice?” as a query
at vice-regal parties.
The Lady brings with her a woman secre-
tary, and that’s going to be a Heaven-sent
boon to the presswoman. Miss Isabel
Crowdy, if asked what her Ex. is going to
wear at some impending function, will not
murmur in an agonised way, “Something
long and black” ; but will probably stand to
attention, and reply crisply, “Black georg-
ette, made oir princess lines, with a short
shoulder cape, dipping centre-back to the
waist-line.. The skirt lias a train in two
pieces which tie behind in a floppy bow for
dancing.” It’s just as easy as that for a
woman, even a woman who is sister of the
Dame Rachel Crowdy of League of
Nations celebrity. The Kelso King lady
and her disciples must regard the appoint-
ment as a specially good one, for Lady
Game is the Girl Guide Commissioner for
Somerset, and carries a special message from
Baden-Powell to the Australian branch
of the sisterhood. Lady Game automatically
becomes president of the Red Cross, and
will be already in office by July 25, Red
Cross Day.
The Aero Club has been polishing up its
front-doorstep and getting out the bunting in
readiness for Amy Johnson, whose marvellous
flight has thrilled Australia. Dinners, a
sports girls’ greeting, civic welcomes and
illuminated addresses await the intrepid air-
woman, and an escort of aeroplanes, each
with a woman pilot at the wheel, was
arranged to fly north for a few miles and
lead Amy in triumph to the Mascot aero-
drome.
There was an atmosphere of the old-
fashioned English novel about the wedding
of Margaret Macarthur Onslow and Michael
King, of the 9th Royal Deccan Horse, India,
last Saturday. St. John’s, the little stone
church at Camden, provided the setting, and
the Macarthur-Onslow tenantry were
strongly in evidence, even to assembling on
the lawn at Camden Park, where the feast
was spread. In the afternoon sunlight the
bonny bride walked on father’s arm between
the guard of honor formed by members of
the 2Sth Battery, on up the aisle, in her
ivory lace and golden lame train gleaming
like prisoned sunbeams. Over all fell a
cloud of tulle, and her hands were filled with
mauve and green orchids. Morn a MacCor-
mick and cousin Faith Macarthur Onslow
"maided in quaint frocks of orange velvet
made with long tight sleeves. Their heads
were wreathed with autumn leaves, and they
carried bouquets of golden roses, slashed with
green and gold orchids. Nephew lan fol-
lowed the bride in an orange velvet outfit,
a hand held by each of the bridesmaids.
Margaret’s brother Edward, who best-
manned ; her uncles General James and
General George Macarthur Onslow: Captain
Royce Shannon and Captain John Pyr, who
also served, were all in uniform, as was the
cheery-faced ’groom. After padre P. G. Paul
had given the final blessing, nearly 200 guests
motored out to Camden Park, there to be
greeted by Miss Macarthur Onslow and Mrs.
Arthur Macarthur Onslow (out of hospital
the day before to be present at her only
daughter’s wedding).
Not long ago it looked as if the wives of
at least three Australian Agents-General
and the better half of the M.L. High Com-
missioner would never have a chance to
hob the satined knee and bend the plumed
head to George and Mary, for Lady Pass-
field, wife of the Secretary of State for the
Dominions, refuses to attend Court, and the
presentation of overseas political debs, is
one of the jobs of her office. However, Lady
Parmoor, whose husband is Lord President
of the Council, has agreed to hand the ladies
into the throne room, and the bonds of
Empire will not be loosened. Lady Passfield,
it will be remembered, was Mrs. Sidney
Webb, the Socialist. She has declined to
take her share of the title bestowed on her
husband to enable him to represent Labor in
the House of Lords.
The _ jolliest golf club of them all, Mona
Pale, is holding its fourth annual ball at
the Ambassadors on Friday, the 30th. The
club’s secretary, 11. S. Luscombe, has
arranged three novelty dances for the amuse-
ment of the girls and boys; these will be
known as the All Nations', Snowball and
Champagne. The last will be led by a
special ballet of eight girls representing
Mona Yale.
Dr. Cyril Sheppard, who died last week,
first saw Australia as a surgeon in the R.N.
nearly 30 years ago. Angel Merivale,
daughter of the shipping magnate, came out
from- England at about the same time. They
met and were married soon afterwards, and
he settled in Sydney as an eye-specialist.
Their engagement was a romance of the
hunting field. Miss Merivale, her father, and
the tall good-looking young doctor all used
to go regularly and hard with the now
extinct Sydney Drag Hounds.
Here a little child I stand,
Heaving up my either hand ;
Cold as paddocks though they be,
Here I lift them up to Thee.
For a benison to fall
On our meat and on us all.
Amen.
There was a westerly that zipped through
the jersey cloth dress as though the same
were tissue paper, and thrust a forked icy
tongue between the collar of the bunny coat
and one’s spine, the day this Letter turned
into David Jones’s to see the display by
the young ladies and gentlemen of the
Golden Fleece Kindergarten. It was after
noon-tea time, and the kiddies had finished
setting the table, and were about to say
their grace. They had passed their day just
a,s they would have done within their own
“kinder.” Since morning they had played
games and gone about tasks. Now on tin;
brown bread and lettuce and glasses of milk
they sought Heaven’s blessing in a piping
treble. Herrick’s verse slipped into the
brain and stayed there. You thought of the
bleak and arid streets to which these little
Free Kinde'rgartners were returning. Some-
how your own books and pictures and gramo-
phone records, and your flat with a view of
the Harbor from every window, that you had
regarded that day with distaste or boredom,
gained a fresh accession of charm—some-
thing worth heaving up"either hand for after
all.
But though the youngsters were going
back to bleak streets they were going back
warm and snug, for Mrs. Charley Lloyd
Jones has seen that the whole kindergarten
is complete with winter woollies, and Mrs.
E. J. Tait and other friends sent the family
limousine to transport the kiddies to and
from the Golden Fleece.
This is one of the latest photographs of
Australian poetess Dorothea Mackellar.
Dorothea has
been writing
poetry since
she was a
child; there is
a Christina
Rossetti note
in it blended
with a modern
p h i 1 o s o phy
and it has
gained the
writer an in-
ternational re-
putation. Her
books are pub-
lis he d in
England and
America, as
were two early
novels. She
has beautiful
eyes whose
soulful expres-
sion is com-
pletely belied by a “curly” comedienne’s
mouth. It’s obviously a mouth made for
laughter, and Dorothea is brimming over with
humor. She is, at the moment, intensely
interested over the proposed formation of
a P.E.N. Club in Sydney, as she was a fre-
quent visitor to the headquarters of the
P.E.N. in London only a few months ago.
A Paris note from Joe O’Keeffe states
that the Ambassador, where she is staying,
and the Ritz are peopled with women in
black. Every woman is in a black cloth
coat and a small black hat, and all show a
good deal of hair on the forehead. The
Jimmy Dyers, of Melbourne, staged a dinner
party for her on the night of her arrival
in their gorgeous apartment in the Rue
Franklin. Under Mrs. Jimmy’s guidance
Joe was made free of the Cercle Inter-
nationale, one of the smart and interesting
clubs of Paris, into which very few of the
sex are admitted. The show at the Casino
de Paris was disappointing, the music being
composed of numbers that are two years
old in Sydney. A Sunday afternoon at Long-
champs showed that racecourse peopled by
women smart and dangerous in black. Frocks
are terribly expensive, and the price- of
everything tourist-high. And a story is
going round that one famous dress designer
by the Seine replied to the Duke of West-
minster, when that much marrying peer pro-
posed to her, that she felt her position as
a dress designer w r as much more secure than
it would be as the third Duchess of West-
minster.
Died last week at Taringa, near Brisbane,
28 years after her forceful, gifted husband,
Mrs. Traill, widow of an early editor of The
Bulletin. Traill, who had previously been
on tin* “S. M. Herald,” made himself a
great reputation as . a vigorous writer; he
left journalism for politics and became mem-
ber for South Sydney. Since her husband’s
death Mrs. Traill has lived at the home of
her son Walter in Queensland. Tom Traill,
of Cynthia station (Q.). and Rolf Traill, of
Northern Queensland, are also in mourning;
and sympathy from every part of Sydney
goes to journalist Mrs. J. Fotheringhame,
of Woolwich, a sister of the deceased.
Herewith a picture of the genial Mrs.
Frank Cliaffey, wife of the Chief Secretary,
who is one of the consistent workers for the
Big Brother movement. No finer method
was ever de-
vised for hold-
ing ont a help-
ing hand to
the boy settler,
but now and
again a de-
pleted tre a-
spry calls for
a helping hand
for itself. One
of this year’s
principal
money - raisers
is the ball to
be held in the
Town Hall on
June 4. Mrs.
Chaffev is on
the list of
vice - p r e s i-
dents, Chief
Justice
Street’s lady
i s president,
and Mrs. Ferrari Passmore is the organiser.
The ball tickets are baited with a special
lure, each carrying a coupon giving details
of a novel guessing competition. The prize'
is a trip to Colombo.
Ruth Cohen, an untiring worker for the
Little Citizens’ Kindergarten, became Mrs.
Leon S. Snider in the Great Synagogue last
week. Rabbi Cohen presided over the pictur-
esque marriage ritual. The bride, in flowing
white moire and a morning cloud of pink tulle,
was attended by Mrs. Gregory Quinn in water-
green chiffons, sprayed with, silver, her arms
piled with pink chrysanthemums. H. H.
Scott, of Melbourne, stood by the ’groom, and
the bride’s parents (she is the only daughter
of the A. Cohens, of Bellevue Hill) engaged
the whole of the Ambassadors for the wedding
dinner, at which there were 170 guests. Here
gold roses and chrysanthemums were massed
and woven by S earls into a design of beauty.
Everybody knows and likes Florence Aik-
man, who has been so long associated with
all good works in aid of the Limbless Sol-
diers. x\t the gay Bachelors’ Ball, an-
other soldier money-raiser, her table was
decked with a great basket brimming with
red roses, and blazoned with the legend:
“Aunt Peggy, wishing her many happy re-
turns.” Miss xlikman (who is “Aunt Peggy”
to whole battalions) fully appreciated the
compliment, and her table was one of the
happy meeting places in an evening electric
with happenings. This dance brought back
the chaperon, a very charming creature
as typified by Mrs. Rose Keenan in white
moires, built on pompadour lines, and
topped with a powdered wig. W. T. Russell, as
M.C., made the ballroom in the Oriental as
popular as an Assembly-room at Bath under
the Beau Brummell regime. And as if all this,
plus the Mistletoe Dance> were not enough
excitement, two bachelors capitulated to
Cupid, and proudly announced the fact. The
happy foursome were Roy Clark, of Kensing-
ton, who got the right answer from Irene
Mcßae, of Manly, and Donald Quant, whose
best girl, Miss A. Henderson, hails from the
same suburb. After this announcement
Gwynneth Lascelles and Sidney Burchall, of
“The Belle” company, added a still further
pinch of saccharine by singing “When We
Are Married.” Miss Aikman, very festive
in black and silver, entertained a large party,
as did Rita Fox in jacaranda-hued moires.
Irma Bennett was another whose frocking
cast a rosy glow over the hours. As presi-
dent of the Bachelors’ committee R. Craw-
cour hosted an outsize table, and Myrine
Collins, president of the Spinsters’ section,
looked like a bit of old Castile in black
lace.
The Women Painters had Education
Minister Drummond to open their Show in
the Education Gallery last week. President
Mary Irvine and Gladys Owen supplied style
in hat and frock, and Nell Stewart, from her
frame at the end of the hall, sent a blaze of
color down the gallery. This is a portrait
of older Australia’s best girl resplendent in
her Sweet Nell court attire, from cart-wheel
hat to Louis-b<M'lecl, riband-trimmed shoes.
Frank Payne (Mrs. A. P. Clinton) was
another notable at the gathering; her
“Rehearsal,” a group of tiny Columbines
practising their steps, had Avon the George
Taylor Memorial Prize. This exhibition, as
usual, is too crowded and the mediocre work
outweighs the charming; but charm is
there. It rests pensively in the water-colors
of Winifred Caddy, in a cluster of phlox by
Florence Lake, and in the Suva scenes of Mrs.
Hedley Parsons and the old-world garden
plots of Laura Booth. There's an untamed
feeling about Mabel Barling’s lions—you
don’t feel they belong either to a zoo or a
circus—while her macaws look the embodi-
ment of the brilliant cynicism of the world.
All the ’ologies were represented at the
Women Writers’ lunch last Tuesday, when
the guests of honor were three recent bril-
liant graduates with a diploma and a medal
apiece. Enid Edmonds, B.Sc., might look
just a butterfly to the casual gaze, but
zoology and mathematics are the stern stuff
behind that schoolgirl complexion. Ger-
maine Joplin, B.Sc., can tell at a glance
the age of any" rock, stone or . stratum. Enid
Carpenter, 8.A., graduated with full honors
in anthropology. Another shining light at
the feast was Dr. Claire Weekes, the first
woman D.Sc. in Australia, who is now off
to Europe to consort Avith scientists of the
same calibre.
On Thursday Backliaus clapped down the
lid of his concert grand after eight of the
most crowded concerts Sydney Town Hall
has seen for the last two years. The little
pianist is just as popular away from the
keyboard, and he and Mrs. Backliaus jog
along a pleasant road thick with friendly
parties. Good nature seems his predomi-
nant characteristic, and at the end of each
programme he comes out again and again,
perhaps a trifle Avearily, but: always with a
smile in response to the encore fiend. Mrs.
Backliaus usually stayed behind in the
artists’ room, and after the concert, Avrapped
in a heel-length of sable (or so it seemed)
and collared in ermine, held court among her
husband’s friends and admirers. Premier
Bavin, Avorried as he Aims over his Eight
Hours Bill, slipped in late for an hour or
so, and then slipped out again. Dean Talbot’s
wife was a regular attendant, and was there
even on the night after she had successfully
chased a burglar out of her flat, down either
the service lift or through the scullery
window. Marr Thompson was an ardent
listener, and Mrs. Eva Wunderlich Avas to
be seen in the front row T at every concert.
Nancy Bavin will take married sister Shir-
ley’s place in pushing the R.S.P.C.A. Ball.
The first committee meeting was called last
Aveek at the Wentworth, Avherc Nancy afore-
said and Mary Doberer promised to be the
secretaries for the flutter on July 1 at the
Wentworth. Sir Philip and Lady Game
have undertaken to look in. Mrs. Warwick
Fairfax is president, and Jessie McMaster
and Betty Sevier are the treasurers.
Last week the M. 11. Fitzhardinge couple
celebrated 50 years of double harness at the
home of their daughter and son-in-law, the
H. B. St. Johns, of Vaucluse. Here, sur-
rounded by sons and daughters and wires
and cables of congratulation, among them
messages from sons in Perth and Canada,
and one from Mrs. Fitzhardinge’s mother,
the tvyo principals beamed happily. Present
Avas Mrs. A. W. Mullen, the bridesmaid who
in 1880 at Balaclava had held the Avhite
posy, replaced after 50 years by the one of
golden roses and pansies presented by Mrs
Fitzhardinge’s children.
The Victoria League spreads its Empire
Day luncheon in David Jones’s restaurant
on Friday next, May 23. Miss Macarthur
Onslow will preside. Nancy Norris is the
acting-secretary of the league in the absence
of Beulah Bolton.
There’s a choir boy at King’s chapel in
Parramatta Avho has a voice like a lark,
and at the wedding of Nora Turner to Dr.
Harold Bradford his soprano soared to dizzy
heights in “The Song of Thanksgiving.” The
music was an outstanding feature of this
knot-tying. The bride, shimmering in white
satin, Brussels lace and tulle, was wafted
to the altar in a dazzle of choral sound,
while Mendelssohn thundered triumphantly
under the hands of organist Gough, of the
King’s School staff. PoAvder blue and apri-
cot were mingled in the frocking of matron
of-honor Mrs. Dalziel. The reception was
held in All Saints’ Hall, where Mr. and
Mrs. R. Turner did the honors. The bride-
groom comes from Dubbo.
For this year’s Journalists’ Ball the P. and
O. Co. is lending the Narkunda, and is be-
having generally in a generous spirit. This
eliminates the hundred-and-onc expenses,-
raisers that lured so many coins out of
scribes’ pockets last year that one of the
girls of this Letter’s, acquaintance had to
appear at the ball without her customary
marcel. The Journalists’ Benevolent Fund,
as one of the trustees remarked, is closely
related to The Bulletin. J. F. Archibald,
besides giving the fund £2OO during his life-
time, remembered it handsomely in his will.


HOME for cure of ALCOHOLISM and DRUGS
(BOTH SEXES)
Established 30 years. Highly recommended. Under medical supervision. Fully qualified matron
and staff. Effective and safe.
THE CENTRAL MISSION INSTITUTION,
Moreland Hall, Jessie Street, Moreland, Melbourne.
Telephone: Brunswick 744.
wmmm
i
/ #
iy
' \
a
H
t!4|
“Good Night,Big Ben!
Call me at Six”
... and at six sharp there will be a
cheerful good morning ring. You can
depend on that. All Westclox keep
time accurately and can be relied on
to tell you exactly when to awaken.
You may choose Big Ben, Baby
Ben or any of the various other
Westclox alarms ... the good looking
and serviceable Westclox watch,
Pocket Ben, or the attractive Auto
clock for your car, with positive
assurance of obtaining Westclox
quality. Prices range from 8/6
to 28/6
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY
La Salle, Illinois, U.S.A.
BROWN & DUREAU LTD.
9 Melbourne, Sydney, Perth, Brisbane
B/0 Ben
\ Base
l Model
f
I
“Tasted Better?”
“ Never! ”
—and you too, will agree when
you taste the piquant flavour of
this rare old Liqueur.
As far back as 1534, Francis I.
gave the new elixir, Benedictine,
his Royal endorsement in en-
thusiastic terms. To-day,
Benedictine is still the choice
of connoisseurs and discrimi-
nating hosts the world over.
As a Liqueur its wonderful
flavour and delightful bouquet
have placed it in a class apart.
A dash of Benedictine in your
cocktails will improve them
tremendously. Try it I .
Benedictine was dis-
covered by the Monk,
Vincelli, in the year
1510. In addition to
its undisputed superi-
ority as a Uqueur,
it has highly valuable
tonic and digestive,
qualities.
BENEDICTINE
For Four Centuries the World’s Supreme Liqueur
Exclusive Diamond Rings
at Drummonds
ĕ
ē
ë
ê
THE illustrations are the exact size of the rings offered, and represent
a few of what constitutes the largest and finest range of rings in
the Commonwealth. Prices of all rings can be varied according to
quality and size of gems desired.
Drummond’s rings are made in their own workshops on the premises
by a staff of highly skilled ringmakers, whose entire knowledge and
ability are unreservedly devoted to their production. All diamonds are
set in pure hard platinum.
Complete satisfaction is assured or money will be refunded.
Wm. DRUMMOND & CO.,
JEWELLERS,
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
-Jjt. ..-.IL^CD
ixnirzzxzian:
WJWi
m
iZdC
r i
n
ana
.
'Z>t
:
'■;. I-:--:
>gsP“
Produced
by the
makers of
“Tricolihe”
—the equal
to silk.
A S dainty as its little namesake,
** “80-PEEP” PRINT is a material
specially designed for children’s wear.
It is guaranteed color-fast, and constant
washing does not damage it in any way.
“80-PEEP” PRINT is 36 inches wide and obtain-
able in a large number of styles, designs and colorings.
Ask your draper to show you patterns.
f
‘(Botyeeptyrint
"Looks good—
■ Osgood."
for Childrens Wear.
G'Wcmco *
'Jabric,
If any difficulty in obtaining, please write,
H. G. RANDELL,
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN’*
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.


Amusements.
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait
HER MAJESTY’S:
A COUNTRY GIRL
CRITERION: LET US BE GAY.
p. J. CARROLL PRESENTS
GREATEST LIVING SOPRANO,
FLORENCE AUSTRAL
“The Voice Majestic,” in conjunction with
JOHN AMADIO,
World-famed Flute Virtuoso.
Town Hall, Sydney. Season commences
THIS SATURDAY, MAY 24.
Further concerts, May 28 and 31.
Town Hall, Brisbane, June 12 and 14.
Town Hall, Melbourne: Season commences
Saturday, June 21.
Amusements.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
GLADYS MONCRIEFF in
KATINKA.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE:
THE PRINCE AND THE PAUPER,
With WM. FAVERSHAM, ANN DAVIS
and Special Company.
(COMMENCING MAY 24.)
ING ’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
WHITE & EDGLEY’S NEW MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
in
SO THIS IS LOVE.
(LAST NIGHTS.)
HOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
* * MELBOURNE.
WILLIAM HAINES in His First All-Talkie,
NAVY BLUES,
With ANITA PAGE.
ALSO
EDDIE QUILLAN as
THE SOPHOMORE,
100 Per Cent. Talkie.
ust a Moment from Everywhere
The Wentworth —Australia’s most efficiently-managed hotel
—is handy to theatres, shops and banks —yet delight-
fully situated away from the noise and roar of the city.
Personally conducted by Mrs. H. Maclurcan, Governing
Director, it is the centre of all smart gatherings, and the
Mecca of visitors who appreciate comfort, convenience
and excellence in cuisine^
Wire or write your re,nervations.
Qhe \\fritworth
E5»
[
ll a ‘i iH
a
tel..
'M«!i
iwl
1C
Church Hill,
Sydney.
AUSTRALIA'S
HOTEL DE-LUXE
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
Phone C[?] [?] for [?]
Buckley [?] N[?] [?]
[?]
When on a recent dreary day the
wind whistled around the eaves and blew
coldly down Gollins-street, scattering the
browned leaves of the plane trees about a
rain-drenched city, the landscape was cheered
by wraps of lovely and divers colors. The
dismal raincoat, sombre and unattractive of
cut, is passing into oblivion, giving way to
the gay leather coat which came in with the
motor-car, was adopted by golfers, and has
now made an irresistible appeal to women as
a rough-weather garb. These coats, in reds,
greens, blues and browns, worn with berets
or felt hats to match, look very chic.
Last week’s deluges of rain brought joy
not only to the farmers but to hunt club
members. In this State we have four
packs of hounds; Melbourne Hunt Club
and Findon Harriers have both been in
existence for over 60 years. Each club
has its own hunting country. Melbourne’s
pink coats stick to the Berwick and Beacons-
field districts ; the dark green of Findon Har-
riers is seen only in the neighborhood of
Mernda, Wollert and Epping ; Oaklands has
a lien on Bulla and Donnybrook, and the
Yarra Glen-Lilydale Club hunts its own
countryside. Sometimes there are combined
huntings.
Next Friday Findon Harriers will answer
the huntsman’s horn at Wollert. The nucleus
of this hunt is a pack once owned by the
Miller family, and Hubert Miller is still the
master. Lady Somers has hunted with the
Findon Harriers on many occasions, riding
side-saddle, and his Ex. attended one meet.
At a meeting called by the Lud Mayor
and presided over by Lady Somers, prepara-
tions were made for a collecting cam-
paign on behalf of the District Nursing
Association next month. Mrs. G. G. Hen-
derson, president of the D.N.A., put it that
winter is on us and the association has
to furnish nursing, nourishment and necessi-
ties on a big scale. There was a good
response to the SOS. The Rotarians will
give a ball, Mrs. Harry Emmerton promised
£5O if nine others would find the same sum,
several bridge parties were mooted, and
there’s to be a Button Day on the 27th.
Alfred Hospital and the Institute for the
Blind lost one of their most helpful friends
when Mrs. James Angus, of South Yarra,
passed away last week. Though not
possessed of robust health for several years,
"Mrs. Jim,” as she was best known, has
left a fine record of usefulness and unselfish-
ness. She was a leading spirit in the
establishment of hostels for blind boys and
girls, and the Boutique, the little shop at
the Alfred Hospital which has been a* decided
source of revenue to the institution, was one
of her happy ideas. Much sympathy goes
out to Mr. Angus, who is a vice-president' of
the R.V.1.8. and a great battler for those
afflicted like himself —he is blind.
Senator Bob Elliott, who has been invited
to speak on Lord Beaverbrook’s platform at
Hastings, went to London the other day
with his wife and father-in-law, who is
Theodore Fink, of the Melbourne “Herald.”
As an Englishman who arrived in Australia
originally as representative of a big British
steel concern, he should know a lot about
the possibilities of Empire Freetrade. He
has one of the finest private collections of
pictures in Australia. It contains .some fine
works by Brangwyn and Augustus John,
and his friend Sir William Orpen is also
largely represented in it.
The weather luck of Moonee Valley held
good again on Saturday, which was a perfect
winter day, with a sun that was cuddlesome
in its warmth. The lawns on the. course
were like green velvet, with appliques of
crimson and purple formed by salvia and
pansies. The Avomenfolk favored tweed in
tailored suits or topcoats. Premier Hogan
was there with his wife, whose black
ensemble was topped with a Madonna-blue
hat. General Cliauvel and his lady and
Rear-Admiral Munro Kerr and Mrs. Kerr
represented Army and Navy respectively.
Mrs. Oscar Lempriere, wearing a sports
suit in a mole tone of jersey tweed with
matching fur and a dark brown hat, had
her daughter Mrs. Rodney Segrave (whose
husband is a brother of the speed-king) with
her. Other visitors from overseas were Mr.
and Mrs. H'untly Griffiths, of India; she
is a daughter of Arthur Robinson and his
lady. Mrs. Archie Currie, in a dark navy
costume and hat, was accompanied by her
daughter Kitty. Mrs. A. V. Hiskens chose
an ensemble of black, the long. coat _of
which was faced down the front w’ith white.
Mrs. Forbes, Mackenzie, Mrs. P. H. Lock, her
niece Mrs. Young, and Mrs. Percy Black-
bourn also put their trust in the magpie
blend. Mrs. Barry Thomson was in tweed
witn a tweed hat.
The Ernest Poolmans’ home .at South
Yarra was the scene of a bridge party
in the interests of the South Yarra Auxiliary
Melbourne Hospital. Sales of flowers were
directed by Mrs. Robert Bruce and M rs.
A. R. Lempriere; Dr. Isabel Younger Ross
and Mrs. Conrad Hiller sold baby clothes,
and the Maudsley lady, Mrs. John Goode
end others looked after sales of cakes and
sweets. Dorothy Mollison and Mrs. h red
Krcrouse shared secretarial duties. the
harvest should be about £l5O.
Iris Shaw was hostess at last week s
Austral Salon gathering. Congratulations
and posies were given to Winnie Louise
Horsnell, of Daylesford, who has just been
admitted to the small group of women bar-
risters of Melbourne, and to Mrs. Christie
Murray, one of the foundation members ot
the Salon, and her daughter Dora. There
was a travel chat by F. W. M. Stilling, of
N.S.W., and some music and verse-speak-
ing.
Dr. and Mrs. J. Newman Morris had a
dance for young people at Kooyong club-
house on the occasion of the coming of age
of their twin son and daughter, Geoffrey
and Dorothy. Mrs. Morris was in geranium-
red moire and Miss Morris wore floral-pat-
terned buttercup-toned taffeta. Diana Mann.
Barbara Weigall, Elizabeth Moran and
Elizabeth and Ann Stawell were among the
dancers.
Members of the E.S.U. assembled the
other night to greet Dr. Hugh Black,
who has been in the TJ.S.A. for the
last 24 years. He lias been occupying
the pulpit 'of Scots Church for some months.
Mrs. Black and daughter Isobel came along
too, and were welcomed by vice-president
D. G. Lumsden. Mrs. Watson Robertson
said thanks to Dr. Black for his address,
which had a tinge of humor.
Mrs. Roystone Davey, from Sydney, col-
lected some old friends for a bridge after-
noon at the Alexandra Club last week. The
lady, who hostessed in a gown of black
velvet embossed chiffon, topped by a
geranium red hat, was previously the chief
guest at a luncheon put on in the same tony
quarters by Mrs. W. G. Sharp.
The welcoming hand is being extended
after many years’ absence to Mrs. David
Christie Murray and her daughter, who
recently arrived from England. As Alice
Marion Dudley, Mrs. Murray, who was born
in Maoriland
and came to
this city as a
mere infant,
was known in
Melbourne as
a solo pianist
an d teacher,
and also as an
actress. II c r
stagecraft was
learned from
Mrs. G. B. W.
Lewis. It jvas
during a theat-
rical season in
Maoril and
with 't h e
Harry St.
Maur co. that
she met and
married author
David Christie
Murray, who
was on a lec-
ture tour, and went: to reside in England.
After her husband’s death in 1907, Mrs.
Murray, here pictured, once more took up
her musical and stage associations. She was
a member of the Vanbrugh-Boucicault and
Ethel Irving cos. and joined Phyllis Neilsen
Terry in “Trilby” and other pieces. In
1909 Mrs. Murray founded the British
Women Artistes’ Society, the object of which
is to enable girls who have neither money
nor influence to give a sample of their
ability before public and critics. The late
Queen Alexandra was patroness of the orga-
nisation. and keenly watched its progress.
When the Great War came the Women’s
Emergency Corps. which became the
Women’s Volunteer Reserve, was formed the
day after the declaration of fight by Lena
Ash well, Decima Moore, Hon. Mrs. Haver-
field and Mrs. Murray. Of late Mrs. Murray
has devoted herself to arranging cinema ver-
sions of spine of her late husband’s novels.
Miss Gilman Jones gave Aileon Dent’s
show of oils and water-colors a gentle push
off at the mid-week, when there were many-
first viewers. The young artist’s inclination's
have been turning to portraiture of late,
among her sitters being Archbishop Head,
Mrs. Britomarte James, Thomas Brentnall
and Miss Gilman Jones. Some still-life
studies of flowers figure in the show.
The Music Club struck a night. of hail-
stones. wind and rain for its combined con-
cert and annual recording. Vice-president
Fritz Hart had the chair, and business was
got through in record time. Dame Nellie
Melba remains president, and Muriel (/amp-
bell carries on as lion. sec. Mrs. 11. E. Spry,
not long back from Europe, arranged the
evening’s programme. Her pianoforte num-
bers were culled from Bach, and she joined
violinist Violet Woolcock in a sonata by
Respighi.
Governor Somers will shake hands with as
many citizens as care to put in an appearance
at Queen’s Hall. Parliament House, on Tues-
day, June 3, the Goth birthday of George V.
Those who ha<ve uniforms handy at home
and are entitled to wear them at official
functions and not merely at fancy-dress
hops have been requested to don them, but
sac suits will do for ordinary folk. As a
further lure, 1.45 has been fixed for the
levee.
Melbourne’s winter climate treated Flor-
ence Austral spitefully. After 11 years’
absence she wasn’t inured to it, and a doctor
sent her to
bed to nurse a
bad cold, visi-
tors and talk-
ing being
banned. Par-
ties arranged
in her honor
had to be
called off.
W hen tli e
Chatterer
called to inter-
view this
singer, wh o
has brought so
much fame to
Australia, she
was permitted
merely to look
in and clasp
her hand. The
lady is now
recognised to
be in the
very front rank of operatic and oratorio
artists. She has scored successes in such
diverse opera roles, as Aida and Briinliilde r
and has sung at most of the great choral
festivals of Britain, while as a concert
singer she occupies a niche all her own. She
had her first lessons from Madame Wieder-
mann in Melbourne, followed by six months’
tuition from Signor Sibella in the U.S.A.
just after leaving Australia. She has also
iiad guidance in interpretation from Madame
Schoen Rene, who resides alternately in Ber-
lin and New York. Fame came to Madame
Austral in a .single night, after her fine
performance as Briinhilde at Covent Gar-
den. She neither drinks nor smokes, enjoys
a game at tennis and a hand at bridge, and
is addicted to needlework, doing much
tapestry work on the voyage here. Lassalle
made this picture of the prima donna, who
is just as nice as she looks.
At the opening of St. Anne’s Hall dona-
tions totalling nearly £lO,OOO were received.
Three anonymous donors sent £lOOO each.
The women’s committee of the hostel added
another £lOO or so to the furnishing fund
by cards, with music. Four hundred were
present, and Mrs. T. C. Brennan, president,
Mrs. F. .T. Corder, hon. sec., and Miss H.
Murphy, hon. treas., directed the proceed-
ings. Valerie Walsh, Mona Nugent, V ictor
Baxter and Reginald Bradley supplied
interludes of melody.
At the Embassy on Thursday night the
Old Grammarians of Lowther Hall had their
yearly hop. President Gwen Harris, in pale
green satin with a flared skirt that brushed
her ankles, passed to Miss E. Ivirkhope, head-
mistress of Lowther H'all. a posy of welcome.
The scholastic lady wore coral-pink georg-
ette and lace.
Will Dyson who left for the U.S.A. in March
cn route for London and daughter Betty, had
a successful exhibition of cartoons at the
Ferargil Galleries, New York. A local critic
compared him to Forain, and went on to say
that the French artist lacked “the attitude
of detached amusement which is characteris-
tic of the Australian.” Max Beerbohm was
considered to be the European whose work
came closest to Dyson’s. The artist told an
interviewer that he was glad to be going back
to London, if only to disprove a rumor that
lie was dead —“dead,” he explained, “mean-
ing to a Londoner anyone who has left
London.”
Newman and Sons, whose jewellery shop
in Elizabetli-street was as well-known as
the town clock, lately moved round the corner
into Collins-street. With the change of
address, pictures by Australian artists have
been added to the stock, probably as the
result of a desire to be profitably helpful to
the bewildered seeker after wedding. gifts.
A narrow gallery running along three sides of
the building is to be used for a series of
one-man o‘r miscellaneous shows. Last week
the innovation was launched to the accom-
paniment of a clinking of teacups. Of the
pictures on sale, none attracted more atten-
tion than those by Granville Dunstan, who
had a very successful show in Adelaide. He’s
a masseur by profession, and art is only a
second string to his bow. The two Rowells,
Harold Herbert, Dora Wilson, George Bell
and others were also represented.
After 10 years on the teaching staff of
the Uni. Con., Stanley Adams is packing his
violin and other belongings for a voyage to
the U.S.A., where he will take up similar
duties at a ’Frisco college. He was a student
at the local Con. under Marshall Hall.
The Civil Ambulance is asking for £lO,OOO.
It doesn’t often go a-begging and does a lot
of useful work. Lord Somers opened a six
days’ fete for the cause. It is composed
of a variety of trade exhibitions garnished
with lucky dips and home-made cake stalls,
run by a committee headed by Rose Paterson
and Mrs. Dan Taylor.
Vic. sculptor Ola Cohn, who has lived
abroad for some years, is an exhibitor at the
Paris Salon, a* small group of figures in
bronze having been accepted. She hails
from Bendigo and learned modelling at
Swinburne College under the late Tranthim
Fryer. She later won scholarships at South
Kensington.
Fred Cato, governing director of Moran
and Cato, celebrated his 72nd birthday by
writing cheques up to the value of £3OO and
scattering them amongst local charities. He
adopted this method of marking his mile-
stones some years ago.
The cancelling of the wedding, which was
due for celebration to-day, of Mary Baillieu,
daughter of the Clive Baillieus, and William
J. Seymour, youngest son of the Rev. Lord
Victor Seymour, of London, was a surprise
announcement of Saturday.
Dr. and Mrs. Barry Thomson’s son, whose
stage name is John Barry, last week set
sail for the U.S.A., where lie is to take part
in the making of talkies.
Tributes to Gladys Moncrieff after the per-
formance of “Katinka” on Saturday night
included a gilded cage containing two white
fantail pigeons, an allusion to the “Rackety
Coo” melody of the piece. Brides-to-be care-
fully noted the wedding party of the first
act. Miss Moncrieff’s bridal attire of silk
lace with a shower of rhinestones, the pink-
lined train and billows of tulle anchored to
a glistening head-dress, is likely to be copied.
The quartette of rose-cliiffoned ’maids, whose
pink veils fell from coronets, and the wee
pages in white satin Russian costumes no
doubt will also be seen in church.
In the Repertory Society’s production of
A. A. Milne’s “Ivory Door,”. Joyce Turner,
as the Princess, wears a trailing gown of
sapphire velvet ' and pointed head-dress.
Irene Webb dresses her part as an old
nurse with much pleating of olive-tinted bro-
cade, white muslin head covering and depend-
ing veil.
Dorothy Seacombe, who commenced her
stage career with the Firm and has since
become a stage favorite in London, has gone
over to the talkies. She took a leading role
in “The Loves of Robert Burns” and is co-
starring with Richard Cooper in a screen ver-
sion of “Lord Richard in the Pantry.”
Sybil Irving, one of the leading lights of
the Girl Guides, is booked to sail off to Eng-
land in the Maloja on June 3, and she is
being feted at many farewell parties. A
recent affair of the kind at the Quamby
Club, where cards were played, was engi-
neered by Mrs. J. H. Henry, of the Apple
Isle and Captain and Mrs. Charles Derham.
Violinist Margot Mac Gibbon is making
headway in London. Lately, with a fellow
student of the R.C.M. at the piano, she sub-
mitted a classical programme at Wigmore
Hall, and the critics spoke kindly of the
Melbourne girl’s playing. She was a pupil
of Gertrude li'ealy's at the Albert-street Con.
Violinist Lorna Stirling, who has been
living in England for some years, is shortly
to return. While on the other side of tlw
world she deserted the fiddle for the pen, and
became a succssful freelance journalist. She
founded a children’s paper, “Pan Pipes,” and
is a contributor to the “Manchester Guard-
ian.” She has just published a new method
of musical instruction for the young. “Music
by Games” is its self-explaining title.
J. S. MacDonald, the newish Director of
Sydney National Gallery, surprised Mel-
bourne on a recent visit by suggesting that
the local gallery should emulate his concern
by lending pictures to country institutions.
Vic. National Gallery has been doing so for
40 years past, as MacDonald should have
known, since he was for many years an art
critic in Melbourne. Over 300 are out at
the present moment, and as many more are
available, if and when the art intelligentsia
of the Backblocks demand them.
Eric Rice, who is travelling Australia to
wake up branches of the Overseas League,
acquired during a long residence in Hong
Kong the reputation of being the best ama-
teur pianist in the East. At the Govern-
ment House party on Thursday night he
gave a sample of his ability at the key-
board.


é
è
QUIET RESTFUL
COOL Open to the
Summer Sea Breezes,
with Private Beach and
Amphitheatre Swimming
Baths, Spacious Grounds
and Garage Accommoda-
tion.
TARIFF:
From 4£ Guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTER-
NOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes’
trip from City by Ferry
or Motor.
RESERVATIONS:
Y 3012 (4 lines).
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should
know-—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
<r
free pattern
every week
THE PASSAGE
BY VANCE PALMER
ILLUSTRATIONS BY ARIA
Synopsis : His father, Boh Cal-
laway, drowned at the bar of the
Passage, Lew has to support his
mother, Hughie and two other child-
ren. Lew is a fisherman, satisfied
enough with the life, hut slightly dis-
til untied at the idea of having to carry
the heavy end of the log all his days.
He resents the determination of his
mother (Anna) not to allow Hughie
to become a fisherman. But Hughie,
• C V' T admits to himself, has brains •it
is Hughie Uncle Tony calls when any-
thing is wrong with his boat; so when
lvunkel offers Hughie a job at his store
Lew agrees that he should take it.
Hughie soon buys a motor-lorry, and
it is tacitly agreed that he 'is the
hope of the family.” Anna is
disturbed over Lew’s attachment for
Clem McNair, daughter of a man
who has made money out of
patent medicine and has just sold
a large area of land on one side of
the Passage— to Osborne, a specu-
lator. . Anna believes Clem, who
lives m the city and comes to the
Passage only occasionally, is out of
Lew’s class. Tjciv's diffidence, however,
prevents closer relationship, and Clem
returns to town intending to make a
career for herself. She writes asking
him to go and hear a great violinist
with her, but he declines at, the last
moment. His excuse is work, but the
reason is the, as yet, scarcely-felt influ-
ence of another girl, Lena Christensen .
Lena has been keeping company with
Craig, a surveyor, but, questioned by
Lew, declares the affair is “all off'”
CHAPTER XII.
Mother and Son.
WHAT’S become of the McNairs?”
said his mother to Lew one evening,
looking up from her sewing to
where his big figure sprawled on the
lounge. “We never hear anything of them
these days. Given up coming to the place
altogether, have they?”
“Don’t know,” said Lew absently. “The
house has been shut up for close on eighteen
months now. I suppose the old man
means to come back some day, or he’d
have got rid of it. Anyway he’s made a
few thousands out of the part he’s sold,
so the place don’t owe him anything.”
Anna remarked tartly that the money was
very easily earned.
“Your father and Uncle Tony could have
had all that land for a few shillings an
acre when they came here first. Going
begging, it was, for anyone who wanted
it. No Callaway ever looked further ahead
than the next meal, though. T don’t want
any land but the few feet that’ll cover me
in the end,’ your father always said. And
he didn’t get even that.... What about
the girl? I thought she was so desperately
fond of the place.”
“Who? Clem? So she is.”
“Yet she hasn’t come back—even for a
holiday.”
“She’s been in Sydney since the old man
married again. Studying art there
Hullo! Cockroaches coming back!”
Anna didn’t follow the direction of his
eyes. It was news to her that the old
doctor had married again, and she won-
dered where Lew got all his information.
For a few minutes she sewed in silence.
“So there’s a stepmother coming into that
family, after all?” she said. “Well, it
wasn’t before it was time. The way that
old creature used to bring his fancy women
to the place for week-ends—sometimes one
and sometimes another! There was no
one to trouble what anyone did those days,
though—short of fishing without a license
or using too long a net.”
Lew had taken up his novel again, and
for awhile Anna sat watching the high lights
on his bronzed forehead and the sober
concentration of his foreshortened face. It
was Clem she had wanted to talk about,
.yet she found it hard to ask questions
directly. For so long she had grown out
of the habit of talking openly with Lew;
when they were together her thoughts and
feelings became tangled, and she didn’t
know how to unravel them. Besides it was
awkward to talk about Clem McNair be-
cause of' the hostility she had felt for
“Suddenly she stopped, mortified and a little emotional. 'For God’s sake, say
something, Lew!’”
her in the past. A misdirected hostility,
she found now. She had more to fear, if
she liked to let her mind dwell on it, from
this Christensen girl who sometimes came
to the place for fish, riding past slowly and
casting sidelong glances over the fence to
make sure Lew was at home. Lately, too,
Lew had been taking Hughie’s truck out
on Sunday mornings, and she knew quite
well where he went. His white flannels
and sandshoes were always wrapped in a
parcel beside him when he drove off, his
tennis racket under the seat.
“What’s come over Lew?” Rachel asked.
“We never get a sight of him from one
week’s end to the other. Doing a bit of
courting, is he?”
And Tony had interposed, with his loose
grin:
“You’d better stick to Hughie, Anna. He’s
the boy to put your money on, if you mean
to climb. Lew’ll be bringing a woman
home on you one of these days, and if it’s
that Christensen girl the house won’t be
big enough to hold the lot of you.”
Evidently people were talking, for
Rachel and Tony never noticed anything
with their own eyes. Not lately, anyhow,
since Tony had come to sticking to his
own verandah, and living for nothing but
the arrival of the boat! A change had
come oyer him in the last few months. He
didn’t joke as easily as he used to, and
the skin seemed to have shrivelled on his
mahogany face, while his eyes had a queer,
lonely look at times. Beginning to wish he
had kept his family round him, Anna felt,
and not let himself get stranded like an
old cod among the rocks!
But her body went hard and stiff at the
thought of the Christensen girl. One of
the sort that had had young fellows around
her since she was old enough to straddle
a horse! It had always been firmly fixed
in her mind that the Christensens were a
wild crowd, loose-living and disreputable
in spite of their money. More than once
there had been trouble at the pub when
the two boys, Lars and Peter, rode down
there with their friends and made such
scenes that the police had to be brought
from the township. And there was the
week she had been at Glenrowan herself,
when Christensen’s wife had been ill. That
was twenty years ago, but it had left a
strongly unpleasant impression on her mind.
A sprawling, shingle-roofed homestead
filled with heavy furniture, fowls on the
verandahs, a sense of plenty without com-
fort, and the whole place dominated by
a cranky, changeable old man who was
either laughing at the cheeky things his
children said to him or threatening' them
with a whip! No wonder when he died
they made ducks and drakes of his money
and let the whole place go to pieces!
But there was no use talking to Lew
about the Christensens. The only time she
had tried to do it she had seen the blood
flush his forehead and a storm gather in
his eyes.
“This is the dead limit,” he seemed to
be saying. “Can’t I have any life of my
own ? Are you still watching over me and
thinking what might happen every time
I swap two words with a girl?”
And she had been silenced as effectively
as if the words had been really spoken.
She didn’t want to quarrel with Lew; deep
in her core there was a wistful hankering
to get back into his confidence and let
him open his heart to her as he had once
done. None knew better than she what a
rock-like steadiness there had been about
him in the last few years, and how he had
responded to every call made upon him.
She had an uneasy feeling that if he had
drawn away from her it was mainly her
own fault.
It had been a good winter, and Lew had
Rahilly, Corny Lait and the Wiegerts work-
ing for him on the share system, while
Hughie plied backward and forward to the
station with his loads of fish. There was
more profit for everyone now that the men
had agreed to pull together. They could
arrange their work so that there was a
boat out with every tide; it was"easier to
go over the channels systematically; and
they were able to deal better with the
agents in town. Lew, who was so
unenterprising in some ways, had a
gift for this sort of organisation, and
took the lead from the start.
“You’ve got the longest head of
the crowd, Lew,” Dave Wiegert told
him, “and what you say goes.”
It was surprising how they re-
sponded, to the pace he set. When
the Wiegerts were working for
themselves they were inclined to
slummock along, going out only when
the tides suited them, taking whole weeks
off at a time to build a fowlhouse or do a
bit of fencing, letting their nets fall into
disrepair. They had never been used to
order and system; since they were boys
they had lived in a hand-to-mouth way,
crabbing in saltwater creeks, pirating a load
of oysters now and then from the beds
down the Passage, lying about wet and
hungry in some leaky shed when .the mon-
soonal rains came. No more ambition in
them, Anna, said, than in the shellfish that
opened their valves with each tide!
But when Lew was with them, jollying
them along, drawing their slow humor out
of them, talking of the price fish were
fetching in the markets and the new boat
Uncle Tony was thinking of building,
their minds and bodies moved to a faster
rhythm. They were as fond of Lew as
old Tom Rahilly himself, and admired the
way he was carrying the family on his back.
The four of them had built a new jetty
at the Callaways’ house, replacing the
rotting piles of the old one, and in then-
spare time they carted stones to build a
breakwater right along the front, so that
the banks no longer fell in and left a
bottom of slimy clay.
It was the beginning of a communal
pride in the handful of fugitive cottages
and humpies that were already taking the
form of a settlement now that Lew’s ice-
making engine shattered the silent mornings
with its spluttering drone, and Hughie’s
truck made new tracks for itself among the
tea-tree. There was even a sense of
rivalry with the village along Sully’s Beach.
The one was a place of workers; the other
of mere idlers! Rahilly and the Wiegerts
argued about the future of the Passage
as they lay among their nets in the boats
by the sandbank or sat smoking, on the
edge of the breakwater. Some day there
would be jetties all along the water-front,
and the people from the range would bring
their butter and fruit down in lorries to be
shipped to town. What pickings there
would be for those who owned a bit of
land then; it would fetch a high price in
the narrow area that fronted the deep
water! Sprawling on their backg, with
their pipes in their mouths and their bare
legs crossed, they sketched developments


You’ll Need One Soon!
THE.
“STANLEY”
Hot Water Bottle
Made of aluminium, with
screw top and rubber
washer —it will not leak.
Far superior to the ordi-
nary rubber variety, as it
retains the heat for a long
time. Flat and round in
shape. Supplied with
blue flannel jacket.
each.
Price.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. s
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales. “ ls ° le &®?2 tat t ££
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the VI orld th_s
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction cf all geneial bankin, business.
m
EVERY CAR...EVERY LORRY
Should be lubricated every 500 miles
with
ALEMITE
Lubricating Systems
and Lubricants
Monday to Friday,
A la Carte Dining and Supper
Service.
Minimum charge 7/6. Dancing till
1 a.m. Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY LATE GALA NIGHT.
Special Table d’hote Dinner., 21/-
Special Supper from 10 o’clock,
12/6; or a la Carte, minimum, 12/6
Afternoon Tea Dansant— —
Monday to Friday, 3.30 to 5.30, 2/6
Saturday, 4/-
’Phone M 4 I 3 1 for your reservation.
with gusto that were as remote and fan-
tastic (and at root as distasteful) as the
gradual cooling of the earth.
“What’s come over y’r Uncle Tony?”
said Rahilly to Lew one day when they
were mending nets. “Seems to have drawn
right into his shell. Never comes along
for a smoke or a yarn and hardly does
more than pass the time of day when you
do meet him. Worrying over that young
Essie, is he?”
“I don’t think so. He’s not the sort to
let his family trouble him.”
“But he’s getting old. Not near the
spring in him there used to be. Some
men crack up sooner than others, and begin
to brood on the little things that have gone
crooked with them. Wonder what’d happen
to the boat if he pegged?”
Lew waved the thought away.
“No need to worry about that! He’ll last
a lot of us out. Tough as fencing-wire
the old boy’s always been.”
But when he came to think it over, there
seemed to be something in what Rahilty
said; he had noticed it himself without
letting his mind rest on it. How was it
Uncle Tony gave you the impression of
having grown smaller lately, of not being
big enough for his clothes? It wasn’t that
his body had shrunken, but that some of
the robust high spirits had oozed out of
him. An unusual silence hung over the
big, rambling house now, and the lights
went out early of an evening.
He was troubled by the thought of what
would happen to the boat, and all Uncle
Tony’s little interests, if the old man passed
out: it was unlikely that the boys would
come back to look after them. They were
settled in jobs of their own now, and
besides they had never liked the life of
the Passage. Hard lines that the old man
shouldn’t have anyone to carry on the work
he had begun!
But the whole question was too uncertain
to waste time in brooding over. He told
himself that Uncle Tony had many years
ahead of him yet, in spite of the way he
had lost his punch. He had no instinct
to meet anything half-way, whether trouble
or good luck. The source of his energy
was not any ambition for the future, but
a delight in the health and strength that
filled his body. To wake in the morning
and watch the rainbow-birds flitting like
bits of living color into the she-oaks by the
water; to see the gulls catch the first apricot
light as they wheeled above the sandbank;
to hear the suck and splash of the making
tide on the stones under his window; all
these things helped a man to start the new
day with a spring. Then there were the ,
songs and barrack coming home at night
with a good catch, even though their arms
might be stiff with hauling, and a freezing
wind cutting through their sodden clothes.
A hot meal for all of them in the kitchen,
with Dot, hanging round his chair buzzing
with excitement about something that had
happened at school, and then the winking
of lanterns like fireflies as Rahilly made
his way to his bunk in the shed and the
Wiegerts to their own place. Yes, a man
had enough in the day’s work to fill his
thoughts!
Yet it was good to feel that prosperity
was definitely lifting them along, like a
warm wind blowing on the back. It was
nothing to speak of as yet, but it made
the air less harsh and eased the strain of
daily life. Marnie had taken to designing
smart clothes for her mother, clothes that
took years off Anna’s age, and sometimes
they went out to concerts and dances in
Hughie’s truck, with cushions spread thick
over the pine seat to lessen the jarring of
the bumpy roads. New interests were
growing in Anna, the world opening around
her. The shortening of her frocks revealed
the fact that she had shapely feet and
ankles, and in spite of all the hard work
she had done she had never let her figure
go to pieces as Rachel had, pottering about
among her melons in Uncle Tony’s boots
and carrying buckets of water from the well
by the creek. She was not five years
younger than Rachel, but how differently
they looked at things! Rachel seemed to
have settled down to a purely vegetable
life as soon as she had done child-bearing,
but Anna—it was as if she was just be-
coming conscious of herself as an individual
being.
“Life isn’t done yet,” a voice repeated,
inside her, as she listened to Hughie talk-
ing about getting a car or watched Mamie
cut out a frock for the hotelkeeper’s wife.
“There’s more in it than saving and scrimp-
ing. You’ve done enough of that.”
There was an awakening of instincts that
had been starved, a second growth. She
was interested in the new resort at Sully’s
Beach, in the people coming down and their
careless way of living. But she hadn’t the
slightest intention of bothering with men,
or letting thoughts of a second marriage
tease her mind; that side of her life was
over and done with! From now on she
would find her pleasure in watching the
affairs of others.
To be sure there was Dot yet, still a child
to be looked after, still running wild with
the Wiegert youngsters and fighting the
boys with her fists w r hen she was roused.
But then Dot was Lew’s special responsi-
bility; ever since she had left her cradle
she had clung to him, and a word from him
carried more weight than a long wigging
from her mother. Anna felt, strangely
enough, that Dot’s future was not her affair,
that it could safely be left to Lew. She
was satisfied as she watched them in the
water together on the afternoons Lew
came home early, Dot skimming over the
surface with her knees straight and her feet
flickering like the tail of a fish, in the way
she had been taught. There was such a
pride in Lew’s face when Dot outstripped
the Wiegert boys in the twenty yards’ race
from the anchored boat to the breakwater,
or took a high dive from the end of the
jetty. He found as much delight in the
child as he had once found in Hughie. No
fear that he would grudge her anything
when the time came!
CHAPTER XIII.
The Decision.
Along the sandy track that cut a white
swathe through the coarse, greenish-yellow
grass of the flower-plain, Lew came driving
the truck on an afternoon that crackled
with a still heat and the multitudinous
chirring of tiny insects in bush and shrub.
The quick spring had gone; the masses of
flowers that, until now, had made the plain
swim before the eyes in a wash of fluid, deli-
cate colors had vanished like mist. Only the
white may remained, thrusting out its
horny arms covered with
clusters of fragile bells,
miracles of beauty close
at hand, yet almost in-
distinguishable in the
strong light from the
tawny rushes and under-
growth. A heat-haze
shimmered over the
plain, melting forms and
outlines. One could
almost imagine that the
chalky-white boles of the
young tea-trees on the
outer edge of it were candles, ana their
reddish, transparent tips tongues of fire.
Lew drove slowly, thinking of Uncle
Tony, whom he had just taken to the
hospital, and of the solemn way the old
man had talked about what would happen
to his store-boat, his oyster beds and his
many little interests along the Passage, if
he passed out. It was disconcerting to see
him so serious about it all. His loose,
wide mouth with its uneven teeth was
usually only opened to grin or crack a joke,
and the future was a thing that had no
more concerned him than next Monday’s
breakfast; yet there he was, fully persuaded
that he had buckled his strap for the last
journey and that all the work of his life-
time would be washed away like a casual
collection of driftwood when he had gone.
No hope of the boys coming back to the
Passage! Jim had married a widow who
owned a store somewhere out west, and
Ross, after floating around the North for
some years, had anchored himself to a
little cane-farm. If the interests at the
Passage were left to them, they would sell
them out for what they could get, and
arrange for their mother to make her home
with one of the girls.
“You’re the only one that’s stuck to the
life, Lew,” the old man had said. “It’s in
your blood, same as it’s in mine. Bit of
the oyster about both of us—wanting to
stay fixed and feel the wash of salt water
over us.”
What was the old man hinting at in his
meandering talk that went round and round,
the subject like a seabird with its eye on
a floating fish? Did he expect him to take
over the store-boat and oyster-beds, paying
Rachel and the children off gradually year
by year? That seemed to be the point
Uncle Tony was aiming at, but Lew had
fobbed him off with perfunctory retorts
that he was worth half a dozen dead men
yet.
“You’ll come out of hospital a new man,
Uncle Tony, like Jonah after his spell in
the whale’s belly,” he had told him.
Yet he hadn’t believed it, quite! There
wa3 a bit of the blackfellow about Uncle
Tony, and though he would make light of
any wounds he could see, this growth that
had been eating into him for years was a
different matter. As mysterious; in its
sinister power over his mind as the magi-
cian’s bone! A doctor’s knife might work
wonders, but it couldn’t restore the will to
live when once it had been surrendered;
and it was this surrender Lew had been
conscious of when he watched the wrinkles
of humor smoothing themselves out on the
old man’s leathery face. For the moment
he was oppressed by the new responsibili-
ties that opened up ahead of him. It was
like being forced under water again when
he had just struggled up into the free air.
“I couldn’t carry it,” he was thinking.
“No one man could! It would be a weight
round my neck all my davs ”
Uncle Tony.
And he pondered on what he had suffered,
as a growing boy, from the knowledge that
the family depended on him, and that if
he were laid on his back by an accident
they would all be on the rocks. A con-
tinual struggle to make ends meet and
provide a little surplus for the ones going
out in the Avorld! It had been a relief to
feel he had done with that, and that his
life was becoming his own. Why should
he let Uncle Tony thrust him into another
struggle that most likely would be harder
and longer than the first?
But deep down within him he understood
and sympathised with the old man’s in-
stinct to keep his name and memory alive
along the Passage. A man didn’t want to
feel he was being entirely blotted out by
the incoming tide! And Uncle Tony had
been as much a part of the Passage as
the whitish-grey sandbanks and the gills
that wheeled over them.
At the ramshackle wooden bridge that
spanned the , saltwater creek a girl had
dismounted from her horse, and was sorting
out an armful of Christmas bells she had
been gathering. The masses of scarlet and
gold lying strewn about the bank were so
vivid that at first Lew hardly noticed the.
slight figure. Then, as he slowed down,
the girl "turned her head toward him, and
the dark eyes shining from under the wide-
brimmed felt hat sent the blood tumbling
queerly about his heart. He wheeled the
truck to the side of the bridge and jumped
out.
“Clem! You here again, Clem! Lord,
if you hadn’t turned your head I’d have
shot past without recognising y0u....
Been down long?”
“A couple of days,” she tolcl him. And
I’ve got a couple more. I rode past the
house half a dozen times, but I couldn t
see a sign of you, Lew. Where have you
been?”
“Over at Eumerella. Been mucking
around there since Sunday. Uncle Tony
was bad and I had to take him to the
hospital there. Booked for an operation,
poor old boy, and doesn’t like his own
chance of getting through What’s this
rot about you only staying for a couple of
days, Clem?”
She confessed ruefully that it was all the
time she had to spare.
“Someone’s rented the bungalow for six
months, perhaps longer, and I had to come
up to get it ready. They’ll be in on my
heels.... Look at these Christmas bells.
There were miles of them out there, stand-
ing on little hillocks among the paddy-
melon holes. Only the holes were full of
water, and dried grass shoulder high. I’m
wet to the waist.”
She was talking vei'y fast, little waves ot
blood spraying her face, flashes of light
coming and going through the darkness of
her eyes. For the moment they were not
quite at ease with one another. It was a
long while since they had met, and each
was conscious of physical changes in the
other. Lew was bigger and burlier, with
more male roughness about him, and more
decisiveness about the lines of his mouth.
The very way he took the bridle from her
and tossed it over a broken limb made
him seem strange to the girl. She, for her
part, had grown more direct and concen-
trated, aware of herself as a woman. There
was a faint furrow between her eyes and a
twist to the corners of her mouth when
she smiled.
“What are you doing with a truck?
she asked him as they sat down. “It doesn’t
seem exactly your job, Lew. I always think
of you with the end of a net in your hands,
standing waist-deep in water. Now, Hughie
—he’d look just right behind a steering-
wheel.” .
“He does,” Lew told her. “Best driver
on the roads, everyone says. He’ll have a
car of his own before the year’s out.”
“Really? I can’t think of him except as
a shy little youngster in short trousers
You’re all getting on, then?”
“Middling well. We don’t have to
scratch so hard to pay the store bill. Hughie
and Marnie are both earning good money.
He thought suddenly of the new under-
taking Uncle Tony had planned for him,
and a grey cloud drifted across his mind,
obscuring the skyline. It would mean years
of hard work, paying off money in small
instalments, worrying about freight <and
the value other men gave for their wages.
A continual feeling of being held down
with a heavy anchor, and not enough chain
to keep above the incoming tide! Yet the
look on the old man’s face—sober,
abstracted, and queerly tenacious!
' “You’re the only one that’s stuck to the
life, Lew. It’s in your blood—same as
it’s in mine.” ,
Clem was asking about Tom Rahilly,
about Kunkel and the Wiegerts, reviving
memories of Saturday morning excursions
over the rocks at the headland, breaking
off in the middle of a laugh to give him
a sudden, searching look, as though to sur-
prise the thoughts at the back of his mind.
His efforts to keep up with her were heavy-
footed, and the slowness of his replies
seemed to puzzle her. She was the same as
ever, yet different. She was more abrupt,
more aggressive in her attempts to find out
about his everyday life, what he had been
reading, what thinking, how he spent his
spare time. Once when they had been
silent a few moments she looked up and
said suddenly:
“I didn’t tell you I was thinking of
going abroad, Lew?”
If she had thought to drop a bomb under
him she was disappointed by his response.
He came to attention, but sluggishly, as
if he were lugging up his thoughts like a
heavy anchor from a twenty-fathom sea
“No,” lie said, stirring slightly. “Is that
so?” ~, , ■ ..
“You’re not very interested,’ she said,
with a touch of pique. “You never are in
(Continued on page 45.)


mssssm.
m
'Nm
'»■
Stuart Crystal is made by craftsmen -who have
never done anything but make beautiful glassware.
Their skill has been handed down, lather to son y
for many generations . T\ery genuine piece bears
the registered name y/ Stuart/'
twart wfstol
English Hand=Afade Crystal
Obtainable wherever beautilul glass is sold
.Carlton '
OVENWARt
WHO HATES
THE JOB OF
DISHING UP?
N° need to say just who —
nq need to do the job!
CARLTON OVEN WARE
is fashioned for oven and
table use, and, quite different
to other ovenware, is guaran-
teed not to crack in oven use,
though a cold, wet cloth be used
in handling the heated dish!
FREE Illustrated leaflet of Casseroles,
Baking and Pudding Dishes, Stew Pots,
etc. (50 different pieces) from
F. R. BARLOW & SON PTY., LTD.,
328 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
A
A
Price of Oval Casserole, 17/6
Price of Pie Dish, 8/6
Smedley tier-vice.
Publication.
“ yARRAGONGARTHA.” This book con-
-4 tains true stories a*ntl information on
the pioneering days of Australia by sea and
land. Obtainable by sending 9d. postal note
to E. H. Earnshaw, 398 Rawson Chambers.
Pitt Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
INFORMATION is required as to the
whereabouts, if alive, or as to the death,
if deceased, of HENRY GEORGE MILES,
who was last heard of in the Dubbo district
and who had lived previously at North
Botany and Rozellc. Any person able to
furnish information kindly communicate with
REGINALD THORNTON,
Solicitor,
185 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
"W/ATSON. —Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Watson,
VV late of 116 Dowling Street, Darling-
hurst, thought to be working on station near
Longreacb, or elsewhere in Queensland, or
anyone knowing their whereabouts, com-
municate with the undersigned. Urgent.
HAROLD T. MORGAN & MORGAN,
Solicitors and Notaries,
34 Martin Place, Sydney, N.S.W.
Re H. E. MURRAY—Deceased.
\Y/ILL anyone knowing the whereabouts of
w WILLIAM HENRY MURRAY (son
of William Henry Murray and Harriet
Emily Taylor) please communicate with
the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Hobart, Tasmania.
Don't Endure Agony Of
PILES
Mr. P. V. HARPER
Tells How ZAM-BUK Saved Him.
Writing from Tiparra, S. Australia,
Mr. Harper says: —“I have experienced
the great soothing power of Zam-Buk.
For two years I had been a martyr to
piles. The complaint got so severe that
I was beginning to think of operation
as the only way to a cure. The burning
irritation was terrible and sometimes I
was too bad to move about.
“I took doctor’s medicine and used
ordinary ointments and salves, but un-
til I started with Zam-Buk it was just
throwing money away. Zam-Buk
overcame all pain, swelling, and inflam-
mation and soon banished the pile 3
completely. Zam-Buk is wonderful.”
amßuk
1/6 bos & 3/6 family size. All chemists.
Tenders.
Shire of Yarrawonga.
TENDERS.
SALE OF OLD SHIRE HALL.
’"PENDERS are hereby invited and will be
received by the hands of the undersigned
up to 6 p.m. on Saturday, June 28, 1930,
for the undermentioned property: —
All that piece of land being part of
Crown Allotment seven, Section two, Town-
ship and Parish of Yarrawonga, Comity of
Moira, containing a frontage of 43ft._ to
Belmore Street with a depth of 167 ft..
together with right of carriage-way from the
rear of same to Hume Street, on which is
erected Brick Building which has been used
as administrative quarters of the Shire
Council.
The property is favorably situated as a
business or commercial site, being directly
between the Post Office and State Savings
Bank.
Tenders are to be submitted alternatively
with or without the existing strong-room
door, and to be accompanied by a deposit of
5% on the total amount of tender.
Certificate of Title and conditions of Sale
may be inspected and any further particu-
lars obtained from Shire Secretary during
business hours.
J. THOMAS SI ELI VAN,
Shire Secretary.
14/5/’BO.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland's
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The City Hall was beautifully decorated
for the R.A.C.Q. Ball. On the palm-fringed
platform two cars were flanked by a pair of
R.A.C.Q. motor-cycles. Lady Goodwin, in
powder-blue, was present with West-
ralia’s Governor Sir William Campion, Mrs.
N. A. H. Campbell and Colonels Worthing-
ton-Wilmer and Campbell, Messrs. Ryder
and Simon Campion being in attendance.
Mr. B. F. Lloyd and Miss Constance Lloyd
received the guests. Shirley Caine, Lurline
O’Connor and May Dennis were the debs,
presented to her Ex., the first in ivory bro-
caded taffetas, the second in ivory georgette,
and the third in ivory mariette over satin.
The Premier's wife wore foxglove pink; the
Mayoress chose apricot; Constance Lloyd
was in autumn tints and black and Nelle
Tritton-Nadejine in autumn-tinted brocade.
The Needlework Guild held its annual dis-
play of garments at the home of the chair-
woman, Mrs. Frank Corrie, Caldew, Bowen-
terrace. There arc close upon ,500 members
of the guild, which distributes thousands of
gifts among the poor and needy. Caldew
is beautifully situated, overlooking Brisbane
river, with fine old trees in the grounds.
Tea was spread on the lawn and there was
a. tremendous roll-up. Cecile Pritchard
looked after the musical programme and
played violin solos; Jean Rigby and Gwen
dc Grant also contributed ; Herbert Coulter
played the piano and W. G. Forrest-Pearson
uplifted his lyric tenor in several songs.
Mrs. Morrow ha<d an at-home for soon-to-
be-married daughter Gwen, the lounge at
Glencairn being decorated with brass bowls of
red and yellow dahlias, On the flag-enclosed
verandah, tables were set with brass bowls of
yellow and orange marigolds and brown
chrysanthemums in yellow tulle. There was
a musical programme. Mrs. Morrow wore
dahlia red and her daughter was in navy.
Lady Goodwin attended the Meeting of the
Women’s Club to consider the raising of funds
for the Queensland Women’s Anzac memorial,
which Daphne Mayo has designed. There
is £108 in hand towards the ten thousand
shillings required.
St. Peter’s, Barealdine, saw the wedding
of Ken Edkins, son of the R. J. Wedge-
woods, of Burslem, Muttaburra, to Kathleen,
daughter of the late Robert Moyse, of Dun-
raven, Barealdine. The bride, who was
given away by her brother Robert, Avas in
gold lame over cream georgette and a
Limerick lace veil. Barbara Moyse and
Margaret Wedgewood ’maided in maize
georgette with summer felt hats and bouquets
of arum lilies. Annie _ Wedgewood was the
wee train-bea*rer in maize frocking with Vic-
torian bonnet. Mrs. Moyse received at the
Shakspeare Hotel. An aeroplane in red and
silver, the colors of Mr. Ken Wedgewood’s
Gipsy Moth in which he has just toured
Australia, was hung overhead. The bride left
for the “flying” honeymoon in grey tweed
with a blue leather coa*t and cap.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
' Adelaide.
The S. A. Jockey Club was favored
with fine weather for its autumn meeting.
The vice-regals and the mayoral party did
not put in an appearance until Wednesday,
when Lord Stonehaven was accompanied by
the Hore-Ruthvens. - Mrs. Lance Lewis was
acting hostess for Mr. Whitmore Carr. The
frocking in the vice-regal box was sombre.
Lady Hore-Ruthven wore a black coat with
fur collar, and a black felt hat. The Mayor-
ess chose a black coat trimmed with astra-
chan, and a black velour hat, and Mrs.
Lewis’s black ensemble was worn with a
cute little astrachan cap. Generally speak-
ing, fawn tweed coats with stone-marten
furs and brown felt hats disputed favoritism
with black tailored coats or suits and black
felt hats.
The at-home given by the Lady Mayoress
to meet Lady Stonehaven was crowded, and
as usual the flowers in the reception-room
were gorgeous. Mrs. Bonython wore a
modish black georgette frock, with a pin-
tucked cape from the shoulders, and a close
fitting black felt hat, a chain of brilliants
furnishing a bright touch. Lady Stonehaven,
who is in mourning for her mother, was
wearing a black silk coat and black hat.
A black satin coat over a black and white
crepe de Chine was the choice of Lady Hore-
Ruthven, with a black velvet toque. A
musical programme and tea filled the bill.
At Government House on the succeeding
night Adelaide society and officialdom were well
represented. One young thing, Joan Duffield,
daughter of the late Professor Duffield, made
her debut in frilled maize net. The floral
decorations in the reception-rooms and
marquee had been carried out by Lady Hore-
Ruthven, assisted by Mesdames Lavington
Bonython, Harry Dutton and Lance Lewis. The
vice-regals on the dais in the ballroom, where
the reception took place, included the Gover-
nor-General and Lady Stonehaven, the latter
in a simple black georgette toilette with jet
ornaments; his Ex. and Lady Hore-Ruth-
ven, who wore black ring velvet and a rope
of pearls; and Sir William Campion. Supper
was served in a large marquee.
The Toe H. reception by the Mayor and Lady
Mayoress was an informal morning affair.
There being more guests than chairs in the
' reception-room the leftovers sat on the floor,
while addresses were delivered by Sir Wil-
liam Campion and the Mayor. Mrs. Bony-
thon wore a red frock and velour * hat to
match.
A very cheery dance was given by the
Guy Makins on Strangways-terraee for their
niece Barbara Palmer. The hostess wore a
floral chiffon : her sister, Mrs. Palmer, black-
and-white figured silk. The young daughter
was in pale green sequined net.
The National Council of Women broke
mto hospitality on Thursday afternoon, when
they gave an at-home in the Town Hall to
meet Lady llore-Ruthven and the Mayoress.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Jardinieres of gold and brown chrysan-
themums and masses of autumn leaves and
bamboo fronds were the hall’s raiment for
the May Ball, an annual affair sponsored by
the Guildford Grammar School. Lady Cam-
pion, in black laces and a glitter of silver,
came with son Wilfrid and his bride, the
latter in black silk net ; headmaster Freeth's
wife appeared in loquat-yellow sewn about
the bodice with gold sparks; rainbow-tinted
laces swished about Mrs. Cruikshank’s
ankles; pretty Alice Biggs wore flowered
georgettes; Dora de Witt chose buttercup
moire and Maimie Harris was a swirl of
mignonette-green laces. Grace Stapleton
favored blue floral chiffons; handsome Betty
Simpson had a glimmer of silver among her
shell-pink chiffons ; Mrs. Southwood, one of
the energetic committee workers, wore black ;
sherry-red taffetas and a splash of silver
lame clad Jean Iladley. Bill Duff secre-
taried the frivol.
After this week’s wool sale Louis Pirenne
and his pretty wife pack their trunks for
Coromandel, Darling Point. The couple are
very, popular and will be received with
open arms when they return next summer.
Among farewells was Doreen O’Hara's
bridge afternoon, held among a profusion of
pink carnations. The hostess wore black
satin and Mrs. Pirenne chose her favorite
blue for hat, frock and tailored coat. Nancy
Lawrence, on a visit from Melbourne, wore a
pinky-beige suit. Among the players were
Mrs. S. Harcourt, Guida and Freda Weir,
Jean Lang, Joy Lathlain, Rita McGibbon,
Mrs. J. Hargrave and Mrs. Frank Malloch.
The Repertory Club produced “The Skin
Game” for a two-night season at the
Assembly Hall. The roll-up was excellent
and the audience thoroughly appreciative.
T. Tracy acquitted himself well as Horn-
blower and clever Julie Menouchin excited
sympathy for the unfortunate Chloe. Dareii
Harford showed the possession of a beauti-
fully modulated speaking voice as Amy
Hornblower.
The beautiful eyes alongside first opened
in northern Italy; they belong to a charm-
ing little lady,
Madame Bril,
who came to
Australia with
her husband,
a Rumanian
engineer, three
years ago. M.
Bril speaks
five languages
and Madame
is fluent in
Italian,
French, Ger-
man and Eng-
lish, and has
more than a
little know-!
ledge of Ru- i
manian an d
Spanish. In
her spare time
s h e teaches
her native
Italian. She
is a c-ousin of Dr. Caldera, a Perth special-
ist. Bardwell Clarke took the photo.
A big diamond with two little ones on
either side is adorning Jean Beith Wilson’s
fourth finger. In September, a plain band
will be slipped beside it by Harry Vincent.
Two days before the Jervis Bay sailed,
Jessie Downie made tea in honor of Mrs.
Len Matters. Mrs. Pelham Webb, Mrs.
James Brennan, Miss Letcher, Mrs. Har-
wood and Mrs. Pelloe were among those
who sipped a cup with the departing guest.
Pearlie Lovekin fiddled, Jessie McGregor
recited and Miss Downie lifted up her rich
contralto in German and Scottish songs.
Mrs. Matters’s elder daughter, Mrs. Herbert,
lias lived for six years in England; her
younger daughter Lenore is studying music
at the Royal Academy, and her husband is
running a paper published in London in
three languages, English, Spanish and Por-
tuguese. Mrs. Matters, who has never quite
deserted journalism, will be a contributor.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Margaret O’Grady, Mrs. Horace Walch,
Mrs. Clive, Mrs. F. X. de Bavay, Mrs. P.
Fox, Mrs. R. Butler, Mrs. W. Coogan and
Miss Molly Counsell ran a bridge party at
Hadley’s in aid of St. Joseph’s Orphanage.
Lounge-, drawing- and billiard-rooms were
all packed with green tables, and supper was
served in the dining-room. The function
was quite undenominational; everyone recog-
nises the good work of the Sisters of Charity.
His Ex. had sufficiently recovered from
liis recent illness to open the Exhibition of
Australasian fruit at A. G. Webster’s wool-
rooms. Here in Apple Land we usually
export -our best fruit, and the man in the
street never realises what his own country
can produce, so that some of the exhibits
were a revelation. The Colombie Cup went
to Victoria, and Queensland annexed a third
prize for its collection (chiefly citrus), but
most of the trophies remained in the Speck.
President and Mrs. Mitchell gave the glad
hand to a big muster of members and guests
on President’s Day of the Rosny Golf Club.
Tea in the clubhouse was a cheery affair.
Margaret O’Grady partnered Alan Miller
in the mixed foursomes, and among players
and onlookers were the C. E. Websters,
Elliott Lewis and his lady, the Graeme Bis-
dees, Dr. and Mrs. Stuart Gibson, Nancy and
Betty Giblin, the Lindons, Captain and Mrs.
Roddam, Dr. and Mrs. Frank Fay, the Percy
Shadforths, Mr. Justice Crisp, the R. M.
Gores, Alison and Helen Gray and Molly
Nettlcfold, who won the putting and ap-
proaching competition for ladies.
Captain F. A. Hare and Mrs. Gleadow,
widow of the late G. D. Gleadow, have been
married at St. Paul’s Church, Launceston.


AN INEXPENSIVE
BLADE RAZOR GUARD
m
With this simple, nickelled guard the Plum or any other blade razor is converted
into a safety razor of the most efficient type. No “dragging”.... all the velvet
keenness of the hollow-ground blade is preserved. Sent post free to any address.
Suitable for gin., %in. and gin. blades, 27-
PLUM RAZORS—Post free.
Neatly packed in satin-lined single or double cases.
Black Vulcanite Handle, each 12/6
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle, each 15/6
Real Ivory Handle, each 21/-
7-day Sets —7 Razors in Case —Black, 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory, 140/-
Eacli Razor ready set jor use and kept in order for two years free.
Other Specialities—Post Free.
PLUM Strops, each, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6 Witch Hazel, After-shave Liquid
Strop Dressing, pe:' tube 1/3 Cream, bottle 2/-
Shaving Cream, Giant Size, tube, 2/- Oil of Rases Hairdressing, bottle . 1/3
Shaving Tajalet, Round, each ... 6d. Crystallised Brilliantine, jar 1/3
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital • • • •
Reserve Fund (used in the business of the Bank)
Reserve Liability of Proprietors under the Charter . .
. £4,500,000
4,475,000
, 4,500,000
£13,475,000
NINETY-SIXTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS OF
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA,
WITH THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR TO OCTOBER 14, 1929.
PRESENTED TO THE PROPRIETORS AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL
MEETING, HELD ON THURSDAY, APRIL 3, 1930.
REPORT.
The Directors submit to the Proprietors the Balance-sheet as at October 14 last,
with the Profit Account for the year to that date. After providing for rebate on bills
current, for British, Australian and New Zealand rates and taxes, and making provision
for bad and doubtful debts and other contingencies, the net profit for the year amounted
to £077 183/7/2
To’this has to be added £139,760/0/3 brought forward from the previous year’s
account making a total of £816,943/7/5. From this £315,000 was paid as an Interim
Dividend on October 4 last, and the Directors have now appropnated a further sum ol
£315 000 to pay a final Dividend of 7/- per Share, making m all £630,000, equal to
14/-’per Share, and representing for the year a distribution at the rate of 14 per cent.,
free of Income Tax. The Directors have also transferred £25,000 to the Reserve 1 und.
There will remain £161,943/7/5 to be carried forward to the next account.
The Dividend will be payable in London, Australia and New Zealand on April d.
The Directors retiring by rotation are: Right Hon. the Earl of Midleton, K. 1.,
Mr. T. R. Johnson and Mr. John Sanderson, who, being eligible, offer themselves tor
1 e ]vi essrs . Deloitte, Plender, Griffiths and Co., offer themselves for
' * SOice'the date of the last Report a Branch has been opened at 237 Murray Street,
Perth, Western Australia. , ™ •
C. G. HAMILTON, Chairman.
4 Threadneedle Street, London, March 24, 1930.
PROFIT ACCOUNT FROM OCTOBER 16, 1928, TO OCTOBER 14, 1929.
Balance brought forward from October, 1928 .. • • • • • •
Profit for the year to October 14, 1929, after deducting Rebate on
Bills current at Balance date ( £6102/0/5), and making provision
£139,760 0 3
for all bad and doubtful debts and for other contingencies. .
Less: I—Charges1—Charges o f Management—Australasia —
Salaries and allowances to the Staff, including
the Superintendent’s Department and 238
Branches and Agencies .. .. •• £507,881
General Expenses, including rent, repair?
stationery, travelling
London —
Salaries
General Expenses
2—Rates and Taxes-
Australasia
London
etc.
116,767
35,095 16
11,024 19
. £1,668,335 12 8
7
6
4
2
£187,534 8
. 132,848 12
£670,769 4 7
820,383 0 11
991,152 5 6
Total amount of net profit for the year to October 14, 1929
From which deduct:
Dividend paid October 4, 1929 ..
Transferred to Dividend Account, payable April 4, 1930..
Transferred to Reserve Fund
, 677,183 7 2
£816,943 7 5
315,000
315,000
25,000
655,000 0 0
Balance carried forward per Balance Sheet
..£161,943 7 5
BALANCE-SHEET, OCTOBER 14, 1929.
LIABILITIES.
Circulation
Deposits at Interest
Current Accounts
Bills Payable, Drafts in Transit,
and other Liabilities, includ-
ing provision for contin-
gencies
Acceptances for Customers, as
per contra
£434,328 10 0
22,523,257 0 0
11,891,540 11 4
4,569,794 17 10
452,732 13 1
Capital
Reserve Fund
(used in the
business of
the bank)
Dividend pay-
able April
4, 1930 ..
Profit Account
balance ..
£4,500,000 0
4,475,000 0
315,000 0
161,943 7
£39,871,653
0
0
0
- 9,451,943
12
7
3
£49,323,596 19 8
A. H. BULLOCK, Accountant.
ASSETS.
Specie, Bullion, Government
Notes and Cash Balances .. £7,182,907 0 8
Loantl at call and at short notice 7.0,000 0 0
British Government Securities .. 2,224,074 16 6
Government Securities of Austral-
asia and other investments .. 1,457,819 16 3
Bills Receivable and Remittances
in transit .. . • - • 3,362,609 17 11
Advances on Securities and other
Assets 34,314,959 15 9
Liability of Customers for
Acceptances as per contra . . 452,732 13 1
Bank Premises and Sites in Aus-
tralia, New Zealand and Lon-
don, at Cost, less Amounts
written off . . . . • • 275.372 19 6
£49,323,596 19 8
E. GODWARD, Manager.
Wp h „ ve examined the Cash and Securities in London and the London Books, and have verified
.he tt\x z a s
SSL"f«Sss£sr-'Att »*»■„ *m. «»<*, Th,
investments weie valued at maiket pi ct ° pLENDEtt> GRIFFITHS & CO., Auditors.
London, March 19, 1930.
The Passage —(Continued from page Jf3.)
anything I tell you. Or is it that you’ve
taken for granted I’m always doing some-
thing freakish?.... Of course I’ve talked
about this lots of times, but I never thought
I had Buckley’s chance.”
“What do you mean by going abroad?”
he asked. “Just a holiday?”
“Oh, dear, no! Nothing’s just a holiday
with me. I’m going to study art —find out
whether there’s anything in me. Dad’s
offered to put up the money. You know
the sort of man he is. He’d think it silly
to give me an income if I stayed at home,
but he’s quite ready to help me to the other
side of the world.”
“And you’ll be away for years, then?”
“Three or four, anyway. It’s not much
good going for less. And I’ve got nothing
to make me hurry back—now have I?”
He didn’t reply. What did he know of
the background of her life, after all—the
depth of her affection for her father, how
much his marriage affected her, the sort of
friends she had in town? With shadowed
eyes he watched her fingers trace soine
figure on the sandy bank with the stem of
a fern. Such short, practical fingers they
were, not nearly so delicate and tapering
as Dot’s, yet expressive in their own way.
He was filled with a sense of bleakness, he
didn’t quite know why. The names of
London and Paris were vibrating on some
inner ear, evoking remote and forlorn
images: he could see a grey sea breaking
on the shores of a desolate island, and him-
self marooned there. Yet there was no
meaning in that!
“I suppose I ought to take the chance
now it’s come,” Clem was saying. “I’d be
sorry for it afterwards if I didn’t. But
I’m not a tenth part as excited about it
as I thought I’d be. If anyone gave me
good reasons for not going, I’d chuck the
idea overboard.”
“You would?”
The quickness of his interrogation made
her color slightly.
“Yes, I think so. Lately I’Ve been
wondering whether I haven’t been bluffing
myself about being an artist. It isn’t
just a matter of talent. You ought to be
able to give your life up to it more easily
than I do—put all your eggs in one basket.
And I suppose I funk meeting the final acid
test, finding myself out.”
She laughed jerkily, and there was a self-
consciousness in her eyes as they met
Lew’s and fluttered off to rest on a king-
fisher sitting poised above the water. Lew
was silent for awhile. There seemed so
little to say. Although he had seen Clem
so rarely in the last few years, the news
that she was going away, now it had sunk
into him, seemed to change the whole
landscape, taking color and outline from
it; for he had always thought of her as
part of it, liable to take shape before his
eyes at any moment on the headland
or the tea-tree cliffs above the bar. So
much of it he had seen through her eyes,
as a boy, as a growing man. But his mind
could only really comprehend one thing
at a time, and just then it was crowded
with the responsibilities Uncle Tony had
called into being.
Clem looked covertly at his stolid face,
immobile and expressionless as an image
of bronze. She was talking in her abrupt,
inconsecutive way about what her child-
hood in the old bungalow had meant to
her, how flimsy and futile she felt away
from the Passage, without a centre or a
steady belief in herself. It was a struggle
for her to express all this, but when she
watched Lew’s abstracted eyes and listened
to his casual monosyllables, it seemed to
her she was merely making words. He
didn’t care, really! It was all just senti-
ment to him.
Suddenly she stopped, mortified and a
little emotional.
“For God’s sake, say something, Lew!
You’ve done nothing for the last half-hour
but grunt responses as if you were falling
asleep in church.”
He started a little and looked round,
the color showing beneath his eyes and
a hint of humor twitching his lips.
“Is that what it sounded like? Yet
I’ve never been inside a church, as far as
I know. Not even to get christened, or
whatever they do to you when you’re
young No, I wasn’t asleep. Only think-
ing.”
“But what about? My going away?
Ought I to go or not?”
“That’s for you to say, isn’t it? You
know what you want, and no one else
does.”
She looked as if she would have liked
to shake him.
“But—you old stupid, Lew—l don’t know
what I want most. Never have! That’s
why I’m asking y0u.... What would you
do in my place?”
“Me? I’d most likely snap at the
chance.”
“Even if it meant never coming back?”
“I don’t know. How the devil can you
consider that? No one can look too far
ahead: I never want to myself. You’ll
be restless all your life, though, if you felt
you had something good in your hands
once and let it go. Haven’t you said so
yourself?”
She rose and braced herself, a twisted,
uncertain smile playing about the corners
of her mouth.
“Yes, and I suppose I meant it. I do
mean some of the things I say. You’re a
help, after all, Lew; you’ve made up my
mind for me.... Oh, my Christmas bells:
I’ve been sitting on them!”
But she made no movement to gather
them up. For awhile they stood, remote
and separate, each knowing that a word
had been spoken that severed them fi’om
one another and from the associations of
their youth. Lew’s face was dark as he
stooped and picked up the scarlet and
golden bells, sorting out the bruised ones
and throwing them away. This was the
end of something, he was thinking; he
wasn’t sure what. There were things he
wanted, to say to Clem, but he couldn’t
dredge them from the depths of his mind.
At the moment she was less real to him
than Uncle Tony, lying on his back over
there in the Eumerella hospital, dreaming
of his boat and his oyster beds.
The thought of * that wrinkled, leathery
face lived steadily in his mind as he drove
back, watching Clem canter on ahead, her
back straight and her eyes fixed on the
water glimmering now and then between
the trees. He would have to take over
the old man’s work if he puffed out; there
was nothing else for it! Keep his neck in
the collar and plug on! While Clem—
she was a migratory bird, after all, who
could spread her wings when she felt she
wanted a change. She didn’t really belong
to the life there!
The dropping dusk and the forest of j
young tea-tree separated them as they I
neared the Passage, and when the truck J
reached the strip of green where Dot was
playing with the young WiegertS, horse
and rider were lost to sight.
(To be continued next week.)
The Faithful Wife.
I’ll bind my heart with staves,
I’ll put a zoning iron-guard about,
Till, bruised, unhoping, it rebels no more.
Nor dares my will iu any way to flout.
I’ll wring the poppy-heads of fading creeds
Of all their virtue; aud my heart shall
sleep—
Sleep—and its elfin love-note then be still,
And I shall vigil keep.
On this, my bridal night,
I must not let its frozen grief awake—
God spare me that! If pity’s not my due,
Spare (for he loves me) only for his sake.
But I must set a seal upon my lips,
And mesh my eyes, that they betray me
not;
Nor suffer the bright ghosts to come again
Of dear, dead hours forgot.
Then surely I’ll be free .
Of all this longing, passionate, tortur-
ing! —
Yet, should it first destroy me, oh, may he
Ne’er know of it as he goes sorrowing!
N.S.W.
B. BERRY.
East of Jordan.
From Judah’s height a lustrous star
His twilight vigil fondly kept
O’er Jordan waters, tumbling far,
On rubble reach and granite bar,
When Chaytor’s columns eastward crept,
As upward in the evening pale
They surged in close-pent file together,
A dust rack streamed its lilac trail
In slow retreat across the vale
Like stubble smoke in autumn weather.
The forge of Sinai’s cloudless days
Had tempered face and forearm bared
Of men who mocked the desert’s blaze,
While sun and sand on stubborn ways
No hardship of their conquest spared.
Through Gilead they clambered high
Against the sable wall of night.
The flint stones gave each hoof reply
Where summits welded earth and sky
In bastions wrought of ebonite.
Cold lash of sleet, the splash of rain
On chilly steeps of bleak distrust
Made phantoms on that route of pain
Yearn grimly for the sun again
And humbly crave the valley dust.
Men fearless, strident yesterday,
Obeyed the urge of hidden powers
Which held them on the unknown way,
Their souls to vaulted gloom a prey,
Mute victims of tempestuous hours.
A mist crept down the column-line
And wrapped it closely front and rear.
Like men whose lights have ceased to shine
Deep in a fouled and flooded mine,
They froze with doubt akin to fear.
Astride, afoot, dismayed and dumb,
They fell and groped by rock and tree
Down black defiles where tempests drum,
Like freighted ghosts condemned to plumb
The vaults «of dread obscurity.
Then upward through the dying gale—
> A last, despairing climb it seemed—
They won a summit’s crest of mail,
And, lo! where dawn was kindling pale
A village on the highway dreamed.
They hailed the dawn’s tranquillity;
The hoofs drummed on the highway stones
And stirred the pulse till speech ran free,
And like a flood of melody
Subdued the range’s sobbing tones.
A brook gushed forth below the road.
Whose stream ,a prattling chorus made.
Their faith renewed, each trooper’s load
Lay lightly while the column strode
Like squadrons on a street parade.
No hint of onslaught gathered near;
Of night’s approaching strife and ’pain.
They rallied gladly front and rear.
Winning the joys of morning clear
To call the sun their own again.
N.S.W.
GERARDY.


THE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
SPECIAL FEATURES
of the directors’ report as presented at the
ANNUAL MEETING
held WEDNESDAY, May 21, 1930, at the offices of the Society,
316 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
ANOTHER RECORD YEAR
ORDINARY DEPARTMENT
NEW LIFE ASSURANCES, business transacted .. .. £6,932,743
ADDITION TO LIFE ASSURANCE FUND (total now
£9,941,222) .. 663,535
TOTAL INCOME FOR THE YEAR 1,820,396
CLAIMS BY DEATH (Death rate low —only about 71 per
cent, of expectation).
BONUSES (every year a bonus year)—Net surplus for the year 403,229
This is the largest surplus for any one year in the Society’s
history.
AH members of 35 years’ standing who within last year reached the age*
of 80 years are exempted from the payment of any further premiums.
COMBINED ORDINARY, INDUSTRIAL AND
ACCIDENT DEPARTMENTS
NEW POLICIES ISSUED DURING THE YEAR .
ASSURING
TOTAL INCOME FOR THE YEAR, 1929 . . .
INTEREST INCOME .
TOTAL FUNDS AT DECEMBER 31, 1929 . . .
The Society is WHOLLY MUTUAL, all surpluses being applied to the benefit of the
Policy-holders only.
Last year’s operations returned surpluses for the year over claims, expenses and
provision for the growing liability of policy contracts to the following extent:—
SURPLUSES OF THE YEAR, £516,676
THE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY aims to render
unexceptionable and unexcelled service to the assuring public.
66,045
. £11,037,773
. . 2,461,954
607,935
. £12,135,228
PRINCIPAL OFFICE DIRECTORATE AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS.
ARTHUR BONVILLE WERE, J.P., Chairman; Senator the Hon. H. S.
EMERY, C.M.G., J.P.; C. J. HENDERSON, J.P.; General Sir HARRY
K.C.B.
W. LAWSON; GEO. E.
CHAUVEL, G.C.M.G.,
JAMES PULLAR, F.F.A., A.1.A., F.S.S., Secretary and Actuary.
CHARLES E. MELVILLE, Manager.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORATE:
Hon. BRUCE SMITH, K.C., Chairman; R. M. PITT; Sir KELSO KING, K.B.
CECIL B. HEARN, A.C.1.5., Resident Secretary.


Royal Alexandra Hospital for Children
Golden Jubilee No. 1 Art Union.
DRAWN June 2ft in Sydney Town Hall at 3 p.m. Closing June 14.
Tickets: 1/ 1 \
post free.
Books of 12 and
25 tickets can be
had on applica-
tion. Send now.
I!*
Spend 1/ - and
Kelp .to maintain
the little kiddies
who are depend-
ent upon your
sympathy.
h v ' permission oj the Honorable the Attorney-General.
FIRST PRIZE .... De Soto Sedan De Luxe, Value .... £471
SECOND PRIZE. . Chevrolet Six De Luxe Sedan, Value 310
THIRD PRIZE . . . Glory Box and Trousseau, Value . 100
TOTAL PRIZES VALUE OVER £lOOO.
Apply to HON. SEC., BOX 4200 XX, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
BENGER’S
FOOD
Vv»WV\
Food
fieri- Trade Mark
At Bedtime!
Benger’s Food makes a
delicious supper dish, soothing,
sleep-inducing and very
nourishing. It is also the best
light diet for all digestive
troubles.
From a Doctor: —
“Benger’s Food is the finest thing
to go to bed on.”
Write for booklet to .•-'BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
AS WE SAID BERRE
This Page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
LAWN TENNIS EXTRAORDINARY.
BROWN ( loq ): “That’s set—six to four. Coyne arid we’ll have a
drink.”
THOMPSON: “Hadn’t we better go on for a while and get up a
better thirst?” — (They go on).
One of that well-known ham-fat family,
the “Big- Joyces,” of Toowoomba (Q.)> is
at Mildura (Vic.) irrigation colony, the
locals whereof seem surprised that Banana-
land can produce a “26-stunner.” The speci-
men ' they have is one of three brothers, all
nearly 6ft. high and over 20 stone each.
Other peculiarities they possess are smooth
faces and squeaky, treble voices that come
as surprises from such prodigious masses of
humanity. And “thereby hangs a tale.”
Once a “giant family” of fat persons visited
Warwick (Q.) and proposed to go on to
Toowoomba. The three Joyces were in War-
wick and went to see the “giants.” JBeing
introduced to a “giant” youth, said to be
17 years old and weighing some 16 stone, the
Joyces dissembled. “Seventeen?” said
Squeaker No. 1. “Why, I’m only 14; wliat
has he got to blow about?” “And I’m only
121,” added Squeaker No. 2. “And I’m just
turned 16. I’m the oldest of us three,”
remarked Squeaker No. 3. The showman
who was trotting them around became agi-
tated and asked: “Really? Where do you
hail from?” “Natives of Toowoomba.
“Will you accept an engagement?” “An
engagement? Not much. Why, we’ve a fine
stud breeding-place of our own up there.
Besides, we’re only chickens to half of the
Toowoomba people. We’re pigmies to the
big ’uns there. If you’ve any notion of
exhibiting this family in Toowoomba you’d
better run ’em as dwarfs!” The showman
that night folded up his movable caravan
and silently stole away. He did not visit
Toowoomba.
A writer in a N.Z. paper says that all
games of chance are strictly forbidden to the
Jews. This is true. There is no chance
with a Hebrew bookmaker.
The Croydon (Q.) goldfield is a lively
place where something is always in progress.
One day it is the two beaks who are doing
the wild-cat act in the street, and clawing
each other to flinders, and the next the spite
of the rival editors breaks loose, and, after
a long course of inky and “inky-berent”
reflections upon each other’s character, one
attacks his neighbor with a cowhide, a razor,
a poker and two hammers, and the assaulted
party defends himself with a club, a scythe,
three bricks and a large bull-pup. This
amusement has hardly had time to subside,
and the editors
have just got back
to their respective
offices and com-
menced two articles
on “The Necessity
for Better Police
Protection,” when
a digger strolls
into the hotel
dining-room, and
there, finding a
perfect stranger
putting hash into
his features, thinks
it necessary to
jerk his head for-
ward and empty
the remains of the
dinner down the
back of his neck.
This naturally
leads to more
trouble, and short-
ly afterwards a
man is seen going
up the street carry-
ing the most of his
ear wrapped in a
newspaper, and in-
quiring for the
doctor. Most of
the time a big man
is trying to tear
down the post
office because there
isn’t a letter for
Terence O’Murphy,
and when he has
gone another man
breaks all the win-
dows because there
is no telegram for
Cornelius O’Flynn.
At all hours of the
day and night two
men, who never
saw each other be-
fore, may be found
fighting 18 rounds
down the street, simply because one
of them was sitting on the edge of
the footpath with his feet fornint him
in the kennel —praise be to the saints!—
and the other kem lurchin’ round the corner,
like the red-nosed hog that lie is, as ye may
per save by the patch on the back o’ his pants.
When a Fenian lies down hopelessly drunk
in the street it is ten chances to one that
an Orangeman comes along, and sings
“Boyne Water” to him till he struggles in
imbecile efforts to rise and punch his head,
and at any moment the door of a hotel may
be dragged violently open while the landlord
fires out a newly-arrived dude who has para-
lysed the establishment by asking for
sherry-and-bitters, and, as he isn’t at all
particular whom he fires him against, and
as the man whom he is fired against is
bound in honor to “put a head on him,” there
is a little fun now and then from this source
also. At the pub. there are always about six
profane diggers making love to the domestic
calamity who draws the muddy beer at the
bar, and there is invariably a Chinaman
in trouble for stealing gold, who is hauled
screaming through the streets, and who de-
sires to swear by his own Joss and the white
man’s Joss, and to make a chicken-slaying
affidavit as well, that it wasn’t him —he no
stealee, he choppee wood. Artificial civili-
sation has not reached Croydon yet, and
the fresh, unspoiled child of nature is
supreme. But, alas! this state of things
cannot endure for ever, and the simple inno-
cent rowdy, who is ready to run three miles
and swallow a kitten for a pot of beer, will
soon be a thing of the buried past.
A story of bottomless deceit and iniquitous
perfidy in a red-headed man named Gil-
christ comes from Melbourne. Some time
back Mrs. Gilchrist was found dead in a
public place, and, refusing to move on when
ordered to do so, she was arrested and in-
carcerated in the morgue, where she lay for
some time awaiting identification. Amongst
the many who dropped in seeking missing
friends went Mr. Gilchrist, but he gazed
upon the remains of the wife of his bosom
with a cold, careless eye, and told the officer
av th’ law that he
had not the pleas-
ure of her ac-
quaintance. Then
he turned nonchal-
antly to an asphyx-
iat e d Chinaman,
looked up a cor-
pulent gentleman
who had been found
drowned, glanced
with some show of
interest over the
items in the collec-
tion, and coolly de-
parted whence he
came, for he was
wise as the serpent
and ahead of his
generation, and
proposed saddling
his country with
the cost of Mrs.
Gilchrist's obse-
quies. The authori-
ties, being unable
to discover de-
ceased’s name and
identity, buried her
under the impres-
sion that she was
nobody at all. After
many days Mr. Gil-
christ, feeling solid,
began to tell ad-
miring friends how
he’d hocussed the
blooming Govern-
ment and chaffed
the police force and
had the coroner on
a string. These
whisperings reached
the ears of the
powers; and an
officer took Mr.
Gilchrist by the
ear, and held him
in a public place,
whilst an infuriated
coroner called him
15 inferior animals,
and animadverted on his conscience and
early education, because of his unutterable
cussedness. The widower, however, did uot
seem to suffer from these hard reflections;
he merely said that his wife had given many
years of trouble, and he had decided to
shake her dust from liis feet.
Jimmy Tyson, the Queensland millionaire,
was always about the seediest man south of
the line. Once in Melbourne an infatuated
constable gave him 24 hours to clear out of
the town—all on account of his hat —under
penalty of being run in for having no visible
means of support. Jimmy crushed him to the
earth by sending him to cash a cheque for
£36,000, and a cloud of dust marked the
policeman’s flight down the road.
Several ladies are now making a good
income in London as professional fa«ee-
washers. It is claimed that the average
society female has not the faintest idea how
to wash her face, and consequently her
countenance accumulates, in a manner of
speaking, and once a fortnight or so the pro-
fessional attendant comes round and gets
up arrears. According to one prominent
operator, it takes a good deal of heavy shovel-
ling, too. The patient’s features are washed
for half an hour in 12 different waters, and
then the lighter shades of the picture are
filled in with cold cream, and after that the
countenance is massaged for another half-
hour, and when the massage is over there
is some more washing, and the sufferer is
dried with a soft silk handkerchief. The
proceedings conclude by the professor of
cleanliness slapping her client vigorously,
to promote circulation. And if she also chased
lier for two miles with a< hoe in an uphill
direction in order to strengthen her muscles,
and then chased her home again to ci'eate an
appetite, the treatment would leave nothing
to be desired.
A Melbourne scribe describes that inde-
scribable dance, the “larrikin waltz”: “One
of the sights of popular demonstration days
is the larrikin waltz. On the one side you
have an aggregation of undersized, loath-
romc-looking weeds in high-heeled boots.,
gaudy-colored neckties and bell-bottomed
trousers; on the other a crowd of dwarfed
factory-girls with faces so hard that you
could strike sparks from them almost. They
tangle themselves together in some remark-
able fashion and gyrate. The young lady
keeps her head well on one side, not so
much from maiden modesty as to get out of
range of the young man’s breath. By the
evening they are all more or less drunk, and
you scarcely wonder that a social reformer,
coming across such a scene, elects to give
mankind up in despair and let it go to
perdition in its own way.”
TOLD HIM TO WAIT.
MISSUS: “Did anyone call during my absence, Bridget?"
BRIDGET: “Yes, Mum, there did. A beggar came to the door for
something to ait; he said he had nothing to ait for two
days.”
MISSUSs: “Well, and did you give him something?”
BRIDGET: “No, Mum; as you wasn’t home, I told him to call
next week!”
ONLY A SOD.
“A party of Irish immigrants arrived at a Mel-
bourne wharf the other day. The first thing one
of them, a young man, did was to open his box
and take out a hard-baked sod, which he gave to
an old woman (evidently the mother of some of
them), who received them on the wharf. She kissed
it and ‘blessed herself.’ It was part and parcel of
the grand ould sod to which her heart-strings
clung.”- —Melbourne newspaper.
It’s only a sod, but ’twill break me ould
heart
Nigh hardened wid toilin’ and carin’,
And make the ould wounds in it tingle and
smart,
It’s only a sod, but it’s parcel and part
Of strugglin’, sufferin’ Erin.
It's only a sod, but it rakes the ould pain—
The ould love in me heart that still lingers,
That Time has been soothing and docth’ring
in vain ;
And now he must soothe it and heal it again
Wid his kindly and gentle ould fingers.
It’s only a sod, but I see a big ship
Through the gallopin’ waters come tearin’,
And a lass that looks back on the horizon
dip,
Wid eyes full of tears and a thrimblin’ lip,
On the last that she saw of ould Erin.
It’s only a sod, but wid care it w r ill keep
Till me brooms and me brushes are silint—
Put it into me arms ere they bury me deep,
And tell them old Biddy the “slavey” does
sleep
’Neath a sod from the bogs of ould Irelint.
HENRY A LAWSON.
BY THE BRINY.
Sullen the surge of the old, old sea
On which the old, old moon was beaming,
And the old, old tide crept stealthily
To where the lovers sat a-dreaming.
(Some explanation this demands — r
The twain were squatting on the sands.)
And he was young and she was fair
(The old, old thing in humdrum verses).
The sea-spray kissed the slumbrous air,
The seagull croaked his mystic curses.
(When little rhymes like this we spin
We always work the seagull in.)
Their hearts beat time to the olden tune,
The tune that Eve brought into fashion;
And Love’s own self caught up the rune,
And every breeze was hot with passion.
(“Rune” always in the third verse goes,
But what it means —well, goodness knows.)
The old, old darkness came at last
To fling its cloak round forms that shiv-
ered ;
They sat and sat like ghosts aghast,
And quaked the while the lightning
quivered.
(You’ll not deny, of course —who could ?
That “ghosts aghast” is rather good.)
The sun rose red in the old, old way,
The seagull cursed more loud and shrilly.
As the old, old morn broke cold and grey
On man and maid, who’d both gone silly,
(This fact, perchance, you have discerned —
’Twas I, the bard, whose head was turned.)
EDMUND FISHER.


NO MORE SICKNESS!
Startling Benefits to both Men and Women
when Poisons Driven Out this Harmless Way
Remarkable Relief in even Severe Cases of Dizziness,
Tired “Worn” Feeling, Backache, Rheumatism, Joint
and Limb Pains, Bladder Weakness, Faulty Elimination,
Colon Disorders, Blurred Sight, Headaches, Etc.
e
Your blood decides your health and strength, and will probably decide
how long you ? il live. Blood feeds your brain, nerves, muscles —even your
teeth, hair and nails! Blood “doped” with uric-acid poisons means the
torture of backache, head pains, body pains, restless nights and sickness. In
the end it may mean severe kidney or bladder disease —and even heart
trouble. THESE ARE FACTS. Find the real remedy. Read on, ACT,
and so safeguard your vital health and add to your years of life.
The One REAL Remedy
The one reliable, effective remedy is Harrison’s Pills, made from a famous prescription, bearing Dr.
Harrison’s signature on every genuine package. Harrison’s Pills are positively the only effective
specialised uric-acid remedy definitely guaranteed NOT to discolor the urine and NOT to harm the
heart. Harrison’s Pills may be used with confidence even by aged and delicate people.
will be paid to anyone proving this is not a safe
and effective remedy, bearing a genuine London
Doctor’s signature.
There is nothing to equal Harrison’s Pills for those dizzy, nervy spells that make life a burden to many
women, and for many of the special ills that make men old as much as 20 years before their time.
One user says: “Since taking Harrisons Pills I have felt years younger.”
Another: “/ Would have tried Harrisons Pills long ago but had been disappointed with so many other
things. My sister gave me some to try three weeks ago, and / must say the pills are Wonderful /am
now quite free from rheumatic pains which have bothered me for years.”
No Benefit—No Cost!
You risk nothing by trying Harrison’s Pills. Marked benefit is definitely guaranteed with the very
first bottle: if you fail to get such benefit, the price paid will be refunded by the Amalgamated
Laboratories, Sydney. If you want to get better—to be rid of ageing aches <*nd pains—if you want to
get back the elastic step of youth, brightness and freedom from headaches, back pains, dizzy spells
—if you wish to get rid of rheumatism, constipation, blood, kidney, bladder and urinary disorders—get
a package of Harrison’s Pills to-day. Any chemist or storekeeper can supply you. Three sizes: 18
pills, 2/-; 32 pills, 3/-; 68 pills, 5/-. Don t delay — live as long and as comfortably as you easily
can! No matter if other things have disappointed you —Harrison’s Pills will put you right, quickly ,
surely, safely. No more sickness when you banish the uric-acid poisons this prompt and harmless way.
£lOO
HARRISON’S PILLS
REMOVE THE CAUSE


The BEENIE PATENT
HORSE RUG
USED ON ALL THE FOREMOST
RACERS, TROTTERS AND POLO
. PONIES.
Easily Fixed —There to Stay
A quality, for turning out. Made of Thompson’s super
white bleached all-flax canvas, and lined with warm all-wool
check.
sft. 6in., 52/6; sft. 9in., 54/6; 6ft., 56/-
ES quality, for yearlings and racers, in white Manhattan
duck, lined with warm all-wool check.
sft. 6in., 44/-; sft. 9in., 45/6
Add 3/- per rug for parcels post in N. S. Wales.
Write for list of cheaper rugs—as low as 22/6 in other styles
and materials.
WE SPECIALISE IN SADDLERY, POLO GOODS, DOG GOODS,
AND PLAYTHINGS FOR BOYS AND GIRLS.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. BOX 785 G.
SSe
v 'on
There are seven
reasons why
I
Guinness
IS GOOD FOR YOU
No. 6
TONIC
EFFECTS
Doctors frequent-
ly recommend
Guinness as a
tonic restorative
after Bronchitis,
Influenza and
other illnesses. It
is sustaining, easy to digest, and has
a definite effect in helping vital
secretions.
Guinness contains phosphates and
other valuable constituents. It is a
natural beverage, naturally matured.
GUINNESS is particularly bene-
ficial to the aged.
Guinness is not pasteurised and
therefore preserves its original flavour
and quality. Guinness will keep
indefinitely.
N.B.—One pint of Guinness Foreign Extra Stout has a malt car*
bohydrate content equal to one and a half pints of pure dairy milk.
GF/A/10D
All Friends.
MARGARET FANE
AND HILARY LOFTING TELL HOW CHARLES
DICE HNS GAME T.O THE RESCUE
THERE were two alternatives —the one
to go down to Sydney and get drunk,
and the other to book his passage home
to England. Either (or both) would do.
The cars turned into the hotel driveway
under the vast harsh sunshine, a self-centred
indifferent man at each wheel and a tanned,
conscious-looking woman beside him. These
were gathering for Christmas. His heart
contracted. Christmas!
The Ivatoomba street dipped into a whirl
of shimmering dust-flecked heat. Houses
and shops glared haggardly across the road-
way at each other, defying the monstrous
heat with a sort of garish complacency. Cars
full of ruddy men and women kept coming-
up the hill in a strident persistence, the
drivers shouldering the suffocating heat out
of their way and turning steadily into the
gateway of the big pub—monotonously in-
different to the sharp savagery of the glare,
monotonously confident and complacent. The
road was yellow, the sky a blazing steel-blue,
the houses white, the pine-trees in the hollow
a livid black. A burning wave swept up the
lull, making whirls of stinging dust that
smelt like a vast primeval desolation for ever
on fire.
The eyes of his mind turned bitterly away
to look at the sloping valleys of Kent under
a cool, pale sky. Hawthorn and dog-rose
sweet in the even hedges marched beside the
road ever so old, dim with hallowed quiet
age. All the colors blended and were gentle,
low-voiced, kind. The farm-houses, drenched
in feathery green and briar-rose and clematis,
stood back from the ancient road; in the
clear soft light the blossoms were all pale
stars. The grey road trudged on between its
guarding hedges, past its old tall trees young
with golden spring, past houses deep in silent
gardens. The Maidstone street soothed his
uneasy heart. The gossiping houses, beetle-
browed, four centuries old, nodding in their
half-sleep, were twilit and friendly over him
as he stopped, the panic touching him again,
at the last house in the street. Doctor
Blair's brass plate, the gentle maid, Doctor
Blair’s white head and friendly steady voice.
The long careful examination.
“You are not to think of yourself as a
T.B. victim, Luke; you read and think too
much for your age. It’s part of the trouble.
You must keep your too-vivid imagination
in control. There is a spot in one lung—
a*s curable as a cut finger’’—the doctor
looked hard at Luke—“if you obey orders."
No more English autumns or winters until
that spot healed. A dry climate; heat;
life according to a simple treatment and
plan. Doctor Blair would advise Australia.
“How long would it’’
“That no one can say yet, my dear boy,
It’s you who react to the treatment. A man
I know practises in Sydney, Arnold Farr —
I’ll write to him, if you like.”
Luke had seen Dr. Farr in Macquarie-
street last week. “Goodo,” he had said, his
expressionless eyes watching Luke. “You’re
slow, but you’re moving. You want a bit
more kick in the way you tackle it. Not so
much pity for the poor exile, I should
imagine. You’ve got a job of work in hand.”
Luke had flushed. “Can you put any sort
of time to it yet, Doctor?”
“Given the arrival of that kick, five years
ought to see it through.” The snap of the
shutting stethoscope-case had been like a
pistol-shot. “Or say six. to be safe. You’re
lucky, Bamborougli, whatever you think
about it. Good-bye.”
He might as well have said fifty or sixty
years. Luke missed so much—too much.
Each car came boiling up the glaring hill,
dusty and steady. With that man driving
and that woman beside him, and sometimes a
few children —grown-up, over-confident child-
ren—taking the world and its suffocations as
they came in the body of the car. He
imagined them with clean collars and their
hair brushed sitting down to the evening
meal in the big pub, possibly complaining of
the soup. Joe Gargery’s kitchen in “Great
Expectations” appeared suddenly in con-
trast —Pip, all wonder and hope, on one
side of the fire and Joe on the other, a mug
of tea balanced on his* knee and a wary
conciliatory eye on Mrs. Gargery angrily cut-
ting bread and butter a*t the table. Outside
the blacksmith’s cottage the marshes
stretched past the churchyard (“Also Geor-
giana. . . .late of. this Parish”) to the Thames
and the sea beneath a quiet sky. The
Christmas dinner, the gravy .Toe ladled into
Pip’s plate when the company criticised the
boy
He turned away. He missed too much —
all the pattern of life that made his reading
real, everything that had meant anything,
it seemed. Nearly a year of this he had en-
dured in a sort of solitary confinement—
more alone than he had imagined a man
could be. Five or six years !
He’d go and” see David. It would be a
voice, anyhow.
David was a partner in a grocery-store
—almost the first person Luke lonely and
bewildered had spoken to in Australia, in
the Mountains train; almost the only person
he spoke to now. He was putting on his
coat when Luke came into the shop.
“Knocking off,” he said. “Going home for
Christmas a couple of days early to dodge
the rush. How goes it. Luke? Come on up
the street with me. I got to buy a shirt.”
“You’re going home for Christmas?”
“Yes. A mile or two out of Cootamundra.
Hot enough to burn your eyes out, isn’t it?
It’ll be a good holiday all right.”
“Home for Christmas!”
“Yes.” David glanced at him. “You
don’t seem too good.”
“I’m not —I’m rotten. It’s all these people
piling in in their motors. Family parties.
And the heat. And that damned room of
mine. I get frightfully fed up, David. I
I can’t fit in.”
David glanced at him again. “No. It’s
not too easy, I expect. Especially at Christ-
mas. Here’s where I buy this shirt.”
“I’ll wait.”
David came out with his parcel. He fell-
into step beside Luke and walked in silence
for a moment. “Look,” he said finally,
“why don’t you come on up to ’Coota with
me for Christmas? Better than looking at
yourself in your room.”
Luke stared at him. “But I can’t barge
into your family!”
“What’s to stop you?” David went on in
his quick, definite way. “There’ll be rafts
of us there—there always is, Christmas
time—but they won’t turn up till Christ-
mas Day (can’t leave their jobs), and
that'll give you a day or two to shake down
and grab the best possies. Mum'd be glad
to have any friend of mine. Do you good!”
“But really, David”
“We travel all night, but we can loaf
when we get there. And you’ll have someone
to talk to. It’d be a spell for you.”
“It’s awfully good of you, but”
“Good, me foot. Mum’s got a farm —mixed.
Two of my brothers run it now for her.”
Luke couldn’t say that he didn’t want to
go, that he’d rather go down to Sydney
and get drunk; while David was talking
(which was most of the time) he didn’t
get a chance of saying anything. In the end
lie. decided that it didn’t matter. He found
himself packing a suitcase, and later trav-
elling all night with David. It was as hot
as the last deeps of Hell in the train, but
it would have been that in Katoomba. Any-
how —anyhow, it didn’t matter.
David’s mother was large and vigorous.
“llow are you?” she said. “The more the
merrier. They won’t be here till late Christ-
mas Eve —not till Christmas morning, some
of ’em —so it’ll be quiet till then. Have a
cup of tea now, or will you wait til] break-
fast?” She turned and called out into the
yard, “Shake it up with that wood ! Here’s
Dave’s mate starving.”
There was a frail old man sitting in a
sunny corner talking to two children, a girl
and a boy—a beautiful old man who nodded
and smiled. But Luke saw him through a
mist of blind fatigue after the journey; lie
drank the tea and stumbled to bed.
It was very hearty. But not overpower-
ing ; Luke’s constraint was not so uncom-
fortable as he had feared. There -were
David’s two big brothers, and his kid sister
and brother; a couple of married daughters,
Emma and Clara, had arrived with their
children ; and there were some visiting young-
sters whose relationship was not specified;
but in the large, rambling wooden house
Luke often found himself alone. David
was busy decorating the kitchen; his mother
was busy all day long about the place—he
could hear her voice in the fowl-runs or down
by the cow-bails or in the kitchen ; and each
visitor seemed constantly to drop into some
job without instruction. No one took any
notice of Luke.
Grandfather, the frail old man who had
nodded, was Mum’s father. He had a
quality, Luke found; they were sympathetic,
perhaps because they were the only idlers
on the busy place. In the evening Grand-
father would smile and point to the chair
beside him. He had learned that Luke was
lately from England.
“My mother was from England,” his thin
voice went on. “A place called Yarmouth.
You wouldn’t know it, perhaps?”
“Yes. I once spent a day there. A senti-
mental day.’
“Sentimental?”
Luke flushed and laughed. They wouldn’t
understand in this land of realities what
hold a mere imagining could have on one.
“Yes. I—l’d always wanted to see the
place.”
“She came out here with her uncle in the
old sailing-ship days,” the old man ran on.
“Uncle was old; they’d had a rough spin
of some sort in the Old Country—she never-
said anything, but I seemed to know it.”
He was silent for a moment. “But she
told me a deal about Yarmouth and the
storms and the fishing, when I was old
enough to take it in. I felt I knew • the
place as well as I know Cootamundra. It
was when her uncle died that she got mar-
ried —he was old, and she looked after
him.”
Grandfather paused again. He was 70
years away in memory. “Yarmouth Bloaters,
she said they used to call the people,” he
murmured, nodding his head. “I remember
her telling me what a bloater was.*’
Luke smoked on in silence. There was
a peace in Grandfather’s presence, in the
sound of his frail voice. Luke didn’t feel
so much alone while this old man talked
about, his mother.
“Very quiet she was, moving about the
place like a shadow. I was only a youngster
when she died, too. I suppose Yarmouth’ll
be a good deal changed from her day now,
Mr. Bamborough.”
Luke roused himself. “I suppose it is.
It wasn’t quite what I expected to find, I
know that.”
“Things do change.” Grandfather’s smile
hovered for a moment. “But not so much
as they make out, you’ll find, if you look
into it.”
The definite preparations for Christmas
Day brought Luke’s constraint back. H’e was
a stranger here. All this bringing into
being of the great feast, here at this end
of the world, but made him the more a
stranger. Further relations arrived, middle-
aged and young—Minnie, Agnes, Dick; they
seemed to be inexhaustible —and a Christmas-
tree was set up in a sheltered corner of
the deep verandah. Far beyond it he saw
snowy fields girdled by black hedges, heard
the church bells, felt the lift in the sparkling
air. Skates rang on ice, and the trees were
bare. Except the holly-trees.
He wandered out into the big paddock
where the heat made burning walls for his
prison. Those voices chattering and calling
about the house and yard had no word for
him. And if there had been a word for him
he could not have answered it. He was a
stranger. Children, the second generation of
this vast family, tumbling here and there or
working like men and women, grinned per-
functorily and passed him in silence. The
(Continued on neat page.)


"Every Picture
Tells a S
Why Endure That
Aching Back?
P)OES your back ache day after day with a dull,
unceasing throb? Do sharp, rheumatic pains
torture you at every sudden move? Are you so .tired
and nervous it seems you can never be well again?
Then look to your kidneys! The kidneys, you
w, are the blood-filters. Once they weaken,
poisons are apt to accumulate that healthy kidneys
would have filtered off. Then comes constant back-
ache, headaches, dizziness and kidney irregularities.
One feels lame, stiff and achy—years older than he is.
Don’t risk neglect! Help the kidneys with a reliable kidney medicine. Use Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, the remedy home folks recommend. Ask your neighbor!
EXPERIENCES OF SYDNEY PEOPLE
Mrs. F. Anderson, 29 Thomas Street, Balmain, Sydney, says: ‘ I
suffered with my kidneys for a good while, the result being that I was
tortured with backache, and the pain at times was so acute that I had
to lie up. My ankles and legs swelled somewhat, and were sore to the
touch, and I always felt tired and languid, having no energy for any-
thing. About two years ago I was advised to take a course ot Doans
Backache Kidney Pills, and they were spoken of so highly that I made
up my mind to try them. After using a couple, of bottles I lelt much
better, and as I continued taking the pills the improvement was mam
tained. five bottles effecting a perfect cure, and I have been well ever
Ten years later Mrs, Anderson confirms her previous statement.
“Doan’s Pills made a perfect cure in my case, for I have had no trouble
with my kidneys since this remedy cured me over twelve years ago.
Mr. A. Bartle, No. 3 Gladstone Street, Bexley, Sydney, says: “Off
and on for years I suffered with disordered kidneys, the result befng that
I was tortured with backache. When I had a bad attack my back used
to be so stiff and lame that I could not even turn in bed without suffering
agony. The kidney secretions were affected, being thick and cloudy with
a red sediment. I was also subject to dizzy attacks and generally
speaking felt far from well. One day a friend, hearing of a cure by
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, urged me to try them. I bought some
without delay, and used them with excellent results. The first bottle
gave relief, and a course of the pills made a complete and perfect cure.”
Twelve years later Mrs. Bartle says: “Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills cured my husband of backache and kidney trouble over twelve
years ago, and he has had no return of the complaint since.”
sdf
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS
Sold by all Chemists and
Stores.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors, 15 Hamilton
Street, Sydney.
spring-cart and the sulky were for ever going
into iCootamundra and coining back laden;
there was incessant expectant bustle; there
was laughter. All that should be was here
in the blistering heat. But not for him.
He could see only the Rectory garden
stilled in the winter quiet, the lawn run-
ning grey-green to the feet of the oak-trees.
The hazel copse guarded the sunk rosery.
The gifts beside his plate, the greetings and
good wishes, the bells, his father in the
pulpit—all the details caught at his heart,
shaking it with longing as he went on into
the breathless silence of the bush. The
gaunt haggardness of the gum-trees mocked
him and his longings. He was a stranger
here, unfriended and alone, lost.
In the evening Grandfather smiled and
pointed to the other chair. “Light your
pipe,” he said. “To-morrovy’s Christmas Day
and they’ll be pitching us out. o’ the way
to make ready for the jollifications.’'
Luke sat down and lit Iris pipe, peace
stealing over him. “You don't seem to feel
the heat much, sir.” he said.
“Me?” Grandfather laughed. “I’m Aus-
tralian-born,” lie said as if that settled it.
“I was an only child, but all my children
and grandchildren and great-grandchildren’ll
be here by dinner-time to-morrow. They’ll
come up from Sydney, from the country, from
the coast —everywhere they’ll come from.
And somehow they’ll all be here to-morrow.”
Grandfather laughed again. “That’s good,
isn’t it?”
“Very good,” Luke said watching the old
man’s lean, fine face.
“On the land, in the shops, on the sea.
Factories, mines, farms, offices. AH work-
ing.” He smoked in silence for a space. “I
looked out a picture to-day to show you,”
he went on, unwrapping a square parcel on
his knee. “It’s a drawing of my mother,
done in Yarmouth when she was a girl. It’s
old-fashioned, of course.” He handed the
yellow board to Luke. “There she is.”
Something touched Luke’s mind. A
memory, some old knowledge that had been
part of his childhood, a dream? The gentle
face looked at him a little sideways from
behind the ringlets, and was bent a little
forward. Grave, quiet, but somehow half-
tragic. The noise in the kitchen and on
the verandahs seemed to die down to. silence
while the face looked at him. What xvas
it?”. .. .
“I found it among her things after she
died. Of course she was little more than a
girl when it was done, as you can see.
Beautiful, wasn’t she?”
“Lovely,” Luke said, slowly returning the
picture. “I seem to —to know the face.. Or
some face very like it.”
“Yes?” Grandfather was carefully wrap-
ping up the board again. “I can remember
—she looked tired, but there was a good
deal of this beauty in her face. There wasn’t
the bloom, naturally. Not the bloom.”
His faded eyes were as grave as the pic-
ture’s eyes. Presently he smiled and stood
up. “Dear knows what time they’ll have
us awake to-morrow, Mr. Bamborough; so
I’ll say good-niglit a bit early. It’ll be ‘Merry
Christmas’ when we meet again.”
“Good night, sir.” Luke watched him
going to the door, the picture clasped to him.
On the morrow the din seemed to reach
the apex of possibility in noise at six o’clock
of a fine hot morning, and with only very
few and faint depressions it remained. The
kitchen was taboo, bnt rich smells pene-
trated to the limits of the verandah. David
ran hither and thither, his face intent and
his tongue never still! The gramophone did
not cease nor the high sound of laughter
as Annie and Joe, Dora and Dick danced
on the deep side verandah, colliding with
Martha who ran back and forth on some
secret business of. the Christmas-tree, her
arms full of colored parcels. Whistles and
drums made the background of this, and the
never-ending, tireless human voice.
Luke could not escape into the bush to-
day. The day was. sacred to this merry-
making in company, and no one could be
solitary or withdraw himself. Grandfather
wandered from group ,to group,'drank beer
here and there, was welcomed and clearly
beloved everywhere. The monstrous, heat
pounded on the iron roof, while Mum and
her sister and two nieces labored in the
locked, stifling kitchen. Some boys and a
bald man and a bearded, man played cricket
in the big paddock. Cries came from the
waterhole, from the yard where a girl was
being taught to ride, . from the untiring
dancers, from David.
Luke filled his pipe again. He spoke
when he was spoken to, conscious of the
stiff smile on his face. He drank beer, and
did his best—even laughed at times. But a
new boy on his first day at school was not
more definitely out of it. lie was a stranger.
There was no link between these busy, merry
people and himself.
The kitchen-door was unlocked, and a
concentrated animation rose. A line of
trestles began to stretch from the kitchen
into the big living-room, out to the veran-
dah. Boards were put on them, and table-
cloths thrown over the boards. Mum, very
red and on fire with energy, directed here,
there and everywhere. The company began
to gather from the paddock, the waterhole,
the yard. Flowers and streamers, piles of
bon-bons, appeared on the tablecloths ; there
was a glitter of knives.and forks and glasses.
Grandfather sat down at the far head of
this huge table in the kitchen doorway.
This clutched at Luke again. He saw the
panelled walls of the Rectory dining-room,
heard 'the voices He must get away,
say he was ill—anything. If he sat down
to this Christmas dinner he’d faint or die
in his chair. All the pattern was bad enough,
but this, the very meal itself, would break
his heart. It was too much.
He was conscious of a suspended moment
in the bustle. Mum’s eyes were searching
the great group. “Those kids o’ mine not
here?” she demanded. “I shoo-ed ’em out
to keep ’em from poking round the kitchen.
Here, Dave!”
David turned round from his army ot
bottles. “What’s up, Mum?”
“Those kids. I cleared,’em out, and they’re
not back. And me dishing in twenty minutes!
I bet they’ve gone down to that cubby of
theirs. Go and fetch ’em, will you?”
“Let me go for them,” Luke cried, seizing
the Heaven-sent chance of temporary escape.
“I’d —I’d like to go and bring them, David.”
David looked at him. “Righto. You
fetch ’em, Luke. Nick across the big pad-
dock and follow the fence tili you come to
the road. Follow the road a bit, and you’ll
see a dip in the land on your right, down to
an old dried-up creek. You'll find their
cubby and the kids on the sandy bottom.
You can’t miss it.”
The boy’s brown face looked up from a
ragged hammock lie was trying to re-string.
“Hullo,” he said.
“Hullo,” Luke answered, looking at the
structure on the sand. The girl came from
behind it. “I was sent to fetch —what’s
that?” he asked, still staring at the strange
little house. It was long and narrow, made
of boards curving in to the roof-batten.
“That’s our cubby,” the girl told him.
“It’s made like a boat.”
“Made like a boat,” the boy said in scorn.
“It is a boat.”
Luke looked at the imitation of an up-
turned boat, at the little door in the side,
at the sand in the creek-bed. There was
something—
“lt’s as near a boat as you want. Grand-
father said it was a boat, if we said so and
thought so.” The boy was indignant. “And
he ought to know. He started it for us.”
“All right, Dan’l,” the girl said mildly,
and stood in the friendly childhood silence
watching Luke's puzzled face. “Would you
like to see inside it?” she asked at length.
Luke roused himself. “Yes,” he said.
“Yes, please.”
81ie pushed open the little door and stood
aside; Luke stooped and entered. There
was a little window; some hooks hung from
the roof-batten; there was an ancient-looking
locker standing against the wall. It was
dim and gentle after the glare outside.
The girl, was silent, looking at him as he
saw pll these things, waiting for his admira-
tion to express itself. He looked so long
at the locker that she broke her waiting
silence. “That came from England,” she
said, “from a place called Yarmouth. Grand-
father gave it to us for our cubby, if we
took great care of it.”
She went over and sat on it, looking shyly
at him, her head a little on one side, bent
a little forward.
“Hey, Em’ly!” the boy called.
“Righto, Dan’l,” she answered, slipping
off the locker and running outside.
A light .swept into the cubby, into Luke’s
mind. He was caught up. Presently the
light receded, and thescubby, the upturned
boat, was dim again, and lie could hear the
children talking outside. Em’ly—Dan’l
Ghosts came softly in. Little Em’ly sat
on the locker with young David Copperficld.
In the far corner Mrs. Gummidge was lone
and lorn, and Dan’l Peggotty laughed and
patted Em’ly’s hand, Ilam grinning at them.
Outside Mr. Barkis and Clara Peggotty
Barkis sat waiting in the carrier’s cart. And
beyond them the great army marched: Mr.
Micawber twirling his eyeglass, with Emma
Micawber on his arm; lovely Dora Spenlow,
Martha Endell, patient Agnes Wickficld,
Annie Strong, Mr. Dick with a great kite,
Minnie Omer and .Toe—all those friends.
He saw Micawber, a dramatic pioneer in
the hold of the ship sailing for Australia,
and Dan’l Peggotty. white-haired norv, stead-
fast and quiet. Martha was there m th
dark hold, and Ern’ly hiding her face. All
friends of his mind and heart, for all Ins
life
And up there was Bm’ly’s son, Grandfather
and all her generations of Australians. He
could walk across the big paddock now and
take his hand. , . „ n .. . ...
He shook his head back. What a fool lie
had been; what a blind fool! No link in
this land of realities ? Why, they were here
—all living friends! . , , „
He laughed suddenly and strode out of
the cubby. “Hey, you kids,” lie called.
“Come on up. They’ll have those turkeys
eaten to the bone. Em’ly, Dan l! Come on,
come on !”
The Gulls.
In this place of grey sand-grasses,
While the stars high vigil keep
Dark night through till dark night passes,
Gathered gulls in silence sleep.
Wings outspread and white of feather,
Flying low o er reef and foam,
Hither do they flock together
When the twilight calls them home.
Over waves that know no resting,
Rolling in on shoal and bar,
Home they come from daylong questing
On long beaches, lone and far.
As the stars move towards their setting—
Westward move o’er ridge and dune —
Rest they know, a space forgetting
Tidal creek and salt lagoon.
N.S.W.
lRODERIC QUINN.
Royally.
The summer is _ gone,
The summer is over.
Sing ho! for the winter,
My lover, my lover!
Sing ho ! for the sun in a beautiful sky,
And the flowers that bloom,
And the blue butterfly.
Sing ho ! 1 for the springing
Of youth in our veins!
The summer is over,
The steam and the rains,
Our weariness vanished,
Our season begun.
See ! See ! The blue butterfly
There in the sun !
My gum-tree has taken
A new lease of life,
The pompous brown pigeon
Is seeking a wife.
Sing ho ! then, my lover,
The summer is over;
Sing ho! then, my lover,
The summer is past,
And beautiful winter.
The kingly young winter,
The lover of Queensland
Is coming at last!
QUEENSLAND.
LLYWELYN LUCAS.


m
#
■ *
-t
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.
Queensland Agents—HOMES & CHURCH..Brisbane
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House/’ 485 Bourke Street. Melbourne.
South Australian Agents— Messrs. ELDKR, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
FOR 84 YEARS QUEENSLAND'S LEADING DAILY NEWSPAPER
The
BRISBANE
COURIER
The largest and most widely spread
Home-delivered morning newspaper in
Brisbane and Queensland. For 84
years the “Courier” has been the most
outstanding advertising medium of
Queensland, and still enjoys the
supreme confidence of all local anc
national advertisers.
220,571 inches
The “Courier” during 1929 exceeded
its morning contemporary’s total adver-
tising space by 220,5 71 inches.
Published by
THE BRISBANE NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
COURIER BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
N.S.W. Rep.: Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“THE AGE”
Established 185>§.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
“THE AGE” publishes over one million adver-
tisements annually. A newspaper advertising
record for the British Empire.
This achievement is definite proof that. “The
Age” has moved forward with irresistible
power to its objective- public confidence.
When formulating your advertising pro-
gramme, link up with “The Age.”
Your confidence will not be misplaced.
AUDITED NET DAILY SALES,
123,533.
Advertising rates on application to the
principal Service Agencies in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
47 Fleet Street, London.
tbe /fdDcrtiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE A DVEItTISEE” may be
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Goich, price lid.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
V. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BISDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature,
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
3f»5 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
THE
Illustrated Tasmanian
Mail
Published Wednesday. Pi ice 6d.
A Bright, Interesting Weekly, con-
ducted on the most up-to-date lines,
and illustrated throughout.
It is an established favorite with
townsfolk and country folk also in
all parts of Tasmania, and its
effectiveness as an advertising
medium is receiving ever-increasing
recognition.
It is undoubtedly
TASMANIA’S LEADING
WEEKLY
A Rate Boole, giving full particular ,
of the Advertising Rates charged, toil)
he forwarded oh application.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
SO Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in ‘THE BULLETIN**
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
I
?/
i
Bu
dc
C h
tik
°fe
cev
f':ii
yth
c o /
Of
«e
°or
J'e//
Pf/,
e^r
*h
O&,
J oa
k'k
of
e Pe
lt e s
Sn *tt 9
od s
**ge
Sl ck
°P
“>op
fa tal
oess
Oy
ri gh
Pf
°Pi
ffa
a nd
of
oil
ce
bl
Pp
Co
or
P«f
Pu
°O(7
Pf
l Pat
a c 6
‘6s
e ap,
c 0
3v
a Ptf
'Om
e *J
e Pf
°P
s Us
«re
e P>tf
Of
Pe
‘Pc
xes
°'P
?*PI
Sh
in-,
a Ptf
Cfe
'Oaf
Pp
'"n
cp
1 on
Se *>d,
°p s
e */p>
O-f,
e P
a *»f.
ee c/j
e 3p
°goi
s *u
*Vg
«Pl
or
Pe»
te P
»fg
u ted
st e
a nd
Of
"«la
PILLS
To secure the best of health, and to be
free from Constipation, Sick Head-
ache, Biliousness, Flatulence, Torpid
Liver and Disordered Stomach—take
BEECHAM’S PILLS.
A Satisfied Customer!
'“Examiner”' Office, Launceston.
Charles Street,
Launceston.
June 11, 1929.
Hear Sir, —It ma.v interest you to know that within three days I have
received replies to my advertisement from Penguin, Huonville, Under-
wood, Sulphur Creek, Meorloah, Latrobe; Sheffield, Hobart, Winflaleah.
1 MUST C<VN G R ATULATB YOU ON THE VALUE.YOU GI VE .MB
FOR OUR ADVERTISEMENTS.
A'ours faithfullv,
R. C. B. MOORE & CO.
Full information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from W. R.
ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 73-75 Paterson Street, Launceston;
M. S. ALLAN, 426 National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins Street, Melbourne ;
W. G: DOUC.AN, 726 Herald Building, G 6 Pitt. Street, Sydney.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper.
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0.. Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6,3, months from
f(/r which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia— l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 20/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
-
o
0°
6
6)‘
6 e
0
s«
K
\\*
0
>3
6
v'
# s ‘
.*•* «fl> 4
• •• VS*
.• c^v-*


30S8D
Rain or shine All-
Weather Tread
Tyres provide
uncompromising
safety at all times.
Supertrvist Cord and the All -
Weather Tread belong only to
Goodyear Tyres.
Ask the Goodyear Dealer to
demonstrate them to you.
