

Wmm
..M
I
MMI
*■ .*■ ■ *V r *j
is
ililiili*»*a»
-• •(!' 9
*.’• ''■’ • ■•' ‘"■lr’ 4
■ - » I
-#S
.
. %m
••4
■
■
KHH3A V ..Z
.;,iv
HHn
w ''Mm
-lIP
"'4
/' < ,s§§P
mr il
IMlll
4' :
• ' rs ■'''•■'* j
■ \
r:4
JMBj,
gB
phsi 1
■' *&,,;** ~
JHHgPSfe
K|‘. jp
•*»*
-& :-?S
4
,v.
IT '"J
::!■
r •■■ ,
'-.?.\*3
• X
-^3
«;; ? 'Zv*
,$j
feu.
A •
r-** 4< .•
jy. ;..fi
-«<*»'■ *»w£«wfc • *» iiK'VA'ViVi
T'HE man who buys an
Australian-made AKU-
BRA Hat for the first time
makes £ real discovery. He
finds that, at a reasonable
price, he has obtained an
article of excellent quality,
style and appearance. He
finds also, as time goes on,
that the good looks are
matched by a remarkable
wear . . . that his money
bought even more than he
expected.
High Quality
251-
Super Quality
32/6
The Bulletin
fltvel Gyyi/Mwk - (Page 9
Vol. 51.—N0. 2614.
Wednesday, March 19, 1930.*
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


YY/RITE for the Library Catalogue and
terms, and lists on all subjects, which
will be forwarded post free on application to
DYMOCK'S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
srsßUu
iilikJ
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
Mu Address
5.8.311 '.’.7.7.7.*.
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
.SAUCE
vN-
w
HW3
I
vv
«UM—«o*c
AV
: -
3
%
%
-Jn
-wm
u
w
Hawaii
is Calling You
Answer her, and the most glorious experience of a lifetime is
yours. Arrange to stay at least a week. Fascinating Honolulu
with its varied native life and colour, surfing at countless beaches
where the waters are always warm, Kilauea Volcano and
enchanting inter-island cruises, are but a few of the wondrous
adventures that this Paradise of the Pacific holds for you.
Honolulu, the Capital of Hawaii, is only a fortnight from
Sydney. Special return excursion fares now available. First-
class accommodation from 15/- a day, including meals.
Hear Hawaii’s "Aloha!” (Greetings).
Send us your address and we will forward to you descriptive
booklets of the Hawaiian Islands, attractively illustrated in colour*
Hawaii Tourist Bureau
Dept. J 7 Box 1627 8.8., G.P.O. SYDNEY
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Quiet —Restful—Cool—Open to the Summer Sea Breezes. With Private Beach and Amphitheatre
Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds and Garage
Accommodation.
Tariff from 41| guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 26 minutes' trip *rom City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines).
Sure Death to All Insects.
THE TYPHOID FLY,
A Messenger of Death to Man.
Kill that Fly with
“MUSTDIE”
The Non-Poisonous Powder.
Kills Cockroaches, Fleas, Bugs,
Mosquitoes.
Sold everywhere, Chemists, Grocers,
Storekeepers, 1/- a tin.
Or forward 1/- in stamps to
BOX 1520 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
aptly
termed
the
Typhoid Fly
HILL
MAT FLY
Showing ths
rough hairy
body and
head and
legs, on
which
Microbes of
Disease adher*
The Red Page
A Great Australian Story
Several qualities seem to me to separate
“The Passage” from most of the other
stories I have read in the second Bulletin
Novel Competition. One is sincerity. The
writers of most of the others might reason-
ably protest that they have all been sincere.
But it is one thing to be sincere in intent
and another to be sincere in achievement.
Sincerity coming from the work itself is a
very different thing from the writer’s sin-
cerity. Strange critics have been airing
their knowledge in Sydney dailies at the
expense of minor historical inaccuracies
in “A House Is Built”; yet that book re-
mains a greater truth than all their facts
lumped together. The London “Times”
critic depreciated the work because, appa-
rently, it is not possible to view Bathurst
from a certain hill the authors saw it from!
“Coonardoo” had the same quality of
sincerity; so had “Men Are Human.” The
early parts of “Bracken” had it, too. On
the other hand, I do not think “Merry
Christmas” had the smallest flavor of it.
It is a curious quality, impossible to indi-
cate in any other way than by saying the
book rings true; is inevitable. It is a
quality which divides literature from mere
books.
There is an even more unusual quality
in “The Passage.” Good writing is not com-
mon in even the best of novels. Thus I would
say that neither *“A House Is Built” nor
“Coonardoo” was well written. In neither
was there any great achievement in using
the minimum of words or the best of words
to express a specific thought or convey a
specific image. In both there are sentences
that can be re-read again and again, but
for their content and not for the way
that content is presented. In “The Passage”
there are scores of sentences and para-
graphs that insist upon being re-read for
the manner of expression alone. It is not
flamboyant; its quality is the beauty of
simplicity. For instance, the story begins:
The anchored dinghy rocked gently on the long
swell. Westerly winds, coining from the land, had
flattened down the sea so that not a ripple broke
its smooth skin, but there was a rhythmic heaving
of its huge bulk as if it still responded to the
original movement of the tides. Above, very high
up, the sky was streaked with long, unravelled
threads of white that frayed out to nothing. For
three days it had been blowing up there, giving the
thridded heavens a cold look, in spite of the way
the sun flooded through. It had no heat in it, that
sun, except at noon; it was like a silver flower that
you could stare at with unblinking eyes. The crystal
currents of air had taken the summer sting and
glitter from it.
Lew, with one line in his hand and the other
payed out over the bows, sat in the stern gazing
eastward toward the far horizon. A vast emptiness,
in which nothing was visible but a white gul ,
searching the watery plain with quick, avid eye
and occasionally dropping with a splash!
Turn to page 64 of the manuscript:—
The mullet were moving with the slowness of an
iceberg up the coast. Days before the storm, th
scouts had come ahead, poking into creeks ant
passages and exploring the spawning grounds, anc
now the main army was approaching, packed in
close formation, with the birds circling overhead
and the sharks moving on the outskirts' in hordes
glutting themselves on the helpless mass.
And a little further on:—
An almost stationary mass, they lay packed in the
deep water, troubling the surface with their silvery
leaping, driving the birds to a frenzy of wild scream-
ing; but would they come in to where a man could
shoot a net around them?
One other glimpse of them:—
They could be seen lying in the clear water at
midi-day, their heads pointed to the current, their
tails flickering faintly, wrapped, apparently, in the
profound ecstasy of immobility; they curdled into
a leaping mass of phosphorescence at night when
the nets closed about them. And behind this great
shoal would be other shoals, moving up the coast
in slow procession till the end of winter, the
sharks around them and the birds above.
None of those passages is merely descrip-
tive; every sentence is part of the woof and
weave of the story. Neither is any of
them a purple patch; the writer appears
to have the gift of writing like that only.
This quality of brilliant expression is not
only to be met between passages of dia-
logue, as this typical example ought to
prove (the woman is Lew’s mother):—
She was determined her children shouldn’t drift
about like Tony’s; picking up a chance job or a
chance husband. Yet when she looked at Tony’s
round, cropped head she realised he would never
see anything in her ambitions but a peg for some
joke or other.
“How’s Essie getting on?” she said with a
touch of malice, as he took up his bag to go.
“Rachel says you never hear from her now.”
“She did, did she?” Tony countered. “Women
are never satisfied. Essie writes when she’s got
anything to say.”
“Oh, well, that ought to be often enough,” said
Anna drily. “Essie was never hard up for some-
thing to talk about.”
“Essie’s like all us Callaways,” said Tony. “We
can all talk the leg off an iron pot, but we dry
up when we’ve got a pen between our fingers. Dry
up at the sight of one, rather.... By the way, old
McNair and that girl of his are down, Anna. ' Look
out for Lew. I saw ’em rowing over to Rathbone
Island yesterday and there weren’t any nets in the
boat. It would be no joke if Lew found a woman
that turned his head and made him upset the
family apple-cart.”
He padded off down to the breakwater where
Hughie was finishing his canoe, and Anna, fancied
she heard a faint chuckle accompany him as he
went. She returned to her jam with a faint
pricking sensation in the skin of her face. It
was humiliating the way this old clown could
always find her weak spots, and go off knowing he
lad rubbed salt into them. She had a feeling that
Lew, Hughie, Uncle Tony and this girl she hadn’t
seen at close quarters since she was a slim, long-
haired youngster were all in league against her.
At time of writing this I still do not know
where The Passage” will be placed in this
competition; I have not the faintest clue to
its authorship. But wherever it goes it will
be worthy of at least its place. It will be
worthy if for no other reason than that it
captures one phase of life in Australia better
than that phase has ever been captured
before.
CECIL MANN.
Lawrence of Neurotica
D. H. Lawrence, who wrote two novels
about Australia, was the possessor of prob-
ably the largest number of complexes that
have ever clamored for sublimation in any
human being this side of the madhouse.
Having the gift of an amazing power of
expression, his endeavors to rationalise
repressions commanded world attention and
extensive reprobation. He became the
most banned author who has ever written
in ' the English language. Before he Was
25, two of his novels had already been
excluded from the libraries. In 1915 the
police prosecuted him over another book.
The MS. of some poems posted from Italy
to his publishers was seized last year and
an exhibition of his paintings, from which
one critic “recoiled in horror,” was lately
closed in London. So hot was the outcry
against him that many of his books were
printed for private circulation only, and
the poems, called “Pansies,” which were
recently reviewed in -the Red Page, be-
longed to the subterranean category.
Lawrence was the son of a working miner,
and While he strove to express himself his
lungs grew black in the atmosphere of a
Midland colliery. His literary forefathers
were Otto Weiningen and Freud. Wein-
ingen was an Austrian Jew who wrote “Sex
and Character,” a book intended to demon-
strate the exaggerated importance given to
woman in this world, her fundamental im-
morality and the duty of men to cease to
procreate. At 23 the author blew out his
brains in the house in which Beethoven
died in Vienna. The teachings of Freud
cast an even stronger spell over the mind
of Lawrence. In “The Rainbow,” one of
his most erotic novels, the curious reader
will find in the menu of a meal and in a
description of natural scenery the fullest
use ever made' in fiction of the phallic
symbolism of the Viennese philosopher.
Lawrence’s physiognomy presented a
remarkable resemblance to that of the
Belgian painter Van Gogh, who cut off an
ear and sent it in a parcel to a prostitute
and who finally cut his own throat while
sitting in a tree; and his writing bears a
still more remarkable resemblance to Van
Gogh’s extraordinary pictures. There is
the same restlessness of form, the same
savagery of color, the same love of violent
action for its own sake. Like Van Gogh,
Lawrence can make you not only see a
scene, but smell it.
Despite, or naturally because of, the anti-
feminist attitude he acquired from Wein-
ingen, Lawrence dealt almost exclusively in
his books with women. His lovers bite,
scratch and pummel each other. In “The’
Rainbow” there is a record of elemental
passion that- leaves the imagination pros-
trate. Not one of Lawrence’s characters
ever succeeds in becoming adapted to his or
her environment. They are destroyed by
the fury of their own obsessions.
Perhaps his quietest books were the two
he wrote after his visit to Australia. The
characters of “Kangaroo” are unreal and
the plot is silly, but the book contains some
magical word pictures of Sydney, its crowds,
the South Coast and its forests. “The Boy
in the Bush,” written with the collaboration
of a Westralian woman, is soberer on the
theme of sex than any of the books placed
in England. The amorous adventures of
the “Boy” are more in the mood of Tom
Jones than of his usual neurotic, soul-
tormented heroes. Evidently Lawrence
found the wide open spaces soothing to his
ranging complexes.
Lawrence hated the age into Which he
had the misfortune to be born and he
wanted to destroy it. The society with
which he proposed to replace it was one
in which men lived elementally, according
to their instincts. He wanted to rescue
love as much from the intellectuals who
have turned it into a pale abstraction or a
mere sensual habit like smoking as from
the theologians who make it a contest be-
tween God and the Devil, and the Ford
men who make it subsidiary to the modern
religion of bigger and better production.
The restraints he wished to put upon it
were such as come from one’s inner being,
and not from any outside authority’.
Chastity and fidelity were to be the pro-
ducts of human impulses, not of legislative
acts or priestly threatenings. 'Whether his
ideal was a good one or even feasible, it
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


Truth in Advertising”—expressing the policy which has built Anthony Horderns’.
Work trousers, too-—for the man on the
land—the kind that will give long and
dependable service and still retain their
shape. They’re well-tailored and very
moderately priced.
For the men “out back,” whose footwear needs are so manifold and so exacting, we
have selected a group of Boots and Shoes that, we feel, will meet all requirements.
One of the most interesting features of this group is the unusually low prices.
Quality for quality and price for price, the value cannot be surpassed.
Work Trousers
Pictured are Men’s Cotton Tweed Work
Trousers; well made, durable. Side or
cross pockets. Plain or cuffed bottoms.
Waist sizes, 30in. to 46in. Prices, pair,
9/11, 11/6, 12/11, 14/11
All-wool Tweed Work Trousers. Side or
cross pockets. Plain or cuffed bottoms.
Waist sizes, 30in. to 46in. Prices, pair,
12/9, 14/6, 15/-, 15/6, 17/6, 19/6
Fast-dyed Serges. Splendidly made and
may be depended upon to give long wear.
Waist sizes, 30in. to 46in. Prices, pair,
13/11, 17/6, 25/-, 35/-
Dept., Ground Floor. We pay carnage.
Of splendid quality are these men’s
Tan Willow and Black Box Calf
Derby Boots; genuine welted soles;
neat shape; ideal for riding and
country wear. Full and half sizes.
Price, oair 26/6
Tree Brand Shoes, stocked in Box
Calf, Tan Willow and Glace Kid; 15
styles; all fittings; full and half sizes;
genuine welted soles.
Price, pair 22/6
i
Anthony Horderns’ famous Work
Boots, made of stout Box Hide, stan-
dard screwed and sewn soles; made
for hard wear. Price, pair . . 16/6
Also in Tan. Price, pair
18/6
Men s Black and Tan elastic-side
Riding Boots; standard screwed
soles; ideal for country wear; price,
pair 22/6
Also stocked in Tan Willow and
Black Box Calf; neat shape; genuine
■welted soles. Price, pair .... 27/6
Anthony Horderns' noted Surveyors*
Boots, in stout Black Box Hide, half-
bellows tongues, stout soles, sprigged
and sewn, cut high round angles;
an ideal boot for men who work in
rough country. All sizes.
Price, pair 23/6
In Tan. Price, pair . . 25/-
1
%
These are a superb make of rubber
Knee Boots for wet seasons, car-
washing, etc. All sizes. Prices, pair,
23/6, 25/-, 28/6 and 32/6
H
-•s
fcfpfl
si
Si
4
Finest quality Tan Willow Calf
Riding Boots. Perfect fitting.
Price, pair 57/6
Also stocked in Black Box Calf.
Price, pair . 55/-
Jockey Boots. Price, pair . . 70/-
Dept., Ground Floor. We
pay carriage.
Anthony Horderns'
’Phone: MS4OI
Day and Night.
(The Senior Store)
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


V
w
m
wm
mm
m
■
mm
m
K
R
When
other cigarettes
lose their savour
try
the cigarettes
that always satisfy.
or
State
ill
111
E
MADE- IN LONDON
r*Y**x. >s
at
m
manum
MMj
ex
wm*'-


h
>3
fi
M
m
qA new type
BUSINESS SHIRT
WITH ATTACHED COLLAR
The "Collar Coat” Shirt is specially made
for Business wear ! In neat pencil stripe
poplins of pink, blue or helio. Attached
collar with stiffeners. All sizes. Priced at
12/6
DAVID JONES’
New Store and George Street
was one likely to arouse every Mother
Grundy, Comstock and Philistine in crea-
tion. They tried and condemned him; his
offence was capital; and at 44 he has
suffered the extreme penalty.
M. G. S.
Australia’s Prose Anthologies
Furnley Maurice (R.P. 5/3/’3O), replying
to my article on the inadequacy of Aus-
tralian prose anthologies, makes a challenge:
“Keeping the size of the books in view, let
Mr. Dailey say which stories he would
exciude, and name the stories with which he
would replace them.” lam required, further,
to give “absolute and definite opinions
founded upon specific quotations or refer-
ence” (from the works of ten writers!), and
I must “give the particulars and reasons.”
And counsel for the anthologists would
then, no doubt, criticise my opinions and I
would be expected to defend them, and so on
ad infinitum. The Bulletin would have
to be enlarged for the purpose. In any
case, Mr. Maurice supplies the reason why
such a procedure would be futile. “I
know,” he says, “of no tribunal that allots
[literary] rank.” There is none—apart
from public opinion and the judgments of
front-rank Writers who, despite Mr.
Maurice’s assertion to the contrary, are
accepted as front-rank critics the world
over. (In Britain and the XJ.S.A,., for
example, a word of praise from Arnold
Bennett or J. B. Priestley or Theodore
Dreiser carries more weight than all the
writings of the camp-followers of the literary
army put together.) Take the position in
our literary valhalla of Mr. Skuthorpe. To
Mr. Maurice “Lance Skuthorpe’s ‘The
Champion Bullock-driver’ is the genius of
Australia in a beautiful human fantasy”—
and worthier, consequently, of inclusion in
an Australian anthology than the best work
of Edmond, Lindsay, Hay, Collins or any of
the other writers whom our anthologists have
ignored. To me “The Champion Bullock-
driver” seems—well, to put it mildly, poor
stuff. Who is to judge between us?
There is no snobbery in deriding the
claims to genius made so belatedly on be-
half of an old gentleman who, during the
Whole of his life, has been identified with
nothing but horses and showmanship. I
would grin just as widely if a bushman told
me that Edmond was a better rider than
Skuthorpe. A reputation as a producer of
prose masterpieces (which Edmond enjoys
amongst every competent journalist of my
acquaintance) is at least as hard to acquire
as one for horsemanship; and neither is
to be picked up as a spare-time hobby.
The spiritual home of such claims as Mr.
Maurice makes for Lance Skuthorpe is not
Australia, and Australians will do well to
be on their guard against them. When I
was in London the other day people were
continually bounding into the limelight
with the announcement that John Bligg,
the successful young attorney, or con-
scientious tidewaiter, or what not, was
superior as a painter to Augustus John or
Orpen. Bligg’s effort usually revealed “the
genius of England,” and it was practically
always “a beautiful human fantasy.” After
a week or so Bligg drifted back to solicit-
ing, or tidewaiting, or whatever it was, and
John and Orpen continued painting as
though their rival had not been found. An
awkward silence followed, broken only by
the derisive hoots of English culture’s
foreign enemies. The Americans have in-
vented a good name for this kind of hum-
bug—’“blah.” “Blah,” which is death to
honest criticism, should be • energetically
scoffed at in Australia, as it always has
been in France, and as it is beginning to
be in the U.S.A.
I submit that it is “blah” to put Mr.
Skuthorpe forward as superior in the realm
of literature to the world-famous Austra-
lian writers whose stories have been left
out of our anthologies. It is not for me to
perform the superfluous task of saying why
they should be represented in any Austra-
lian anthology that claims to be represen-
tative; it is for the anthologists, or their
defenders, to say why they have been left
out. Let us hear the reasons why even
one of them should be excluded in favor
of, say, Mr. Skuthorpe. I would suggest
Dale Collins, who is not a friend of mine;
whom, in fact, I have never seen. If a
smashing case were made out against his
art, some of his numerous Australian
readers might turn to the art of Mr .Sku-
thorpe, with the result that the latter
Would begin to be heard of as a writer in
Britain, Europe and the U.S.A. If, on the
other hand, Mr. Skuthorpe did not feel
encouraged- by valuable publicity of the
sort to concentrate on a literary career, as
natural geniuses like Burns and Lawson
were hag-driven to do long before the critics
recognised them, then it might fairly be
assumed that the claims made to genius
on his behalf were “blah.”
JOHN DALLEY.
Maoriland Short Stories That Aren’t
In. his preface to New Zealand Short
Stories, the first collection of the kind,
published by Dent, the compiler, 0. N.
Gillespie, warns the reader that the stories,
“particularly by contrast with those from
Australia,” “lack any national outlook or
distinctive atmosphere.” Later he evolves
the paradox that the story-telling pro-
clivities of the Maorilander are hindered
by “an abundance of Bachelors of Arts.”
which is about the most damning indict-
ment of the limitations imposed by a uni-
versity education that could possibly be
framed. I’m not disposed to quarrel with
its justice. Maoriland, soaked to the eyes
in the English gentilities, literary and other-
wise, isn’t a promising nest for the unculti-
vated sort of genius that best suits the
temper of a colony. From the very first
its guardians of the pure well of English
could show badges from Oxford or Cam-
bridge. Domett was Browning’s “Waring”;
Grey, though a soldier by profession, had
a literary talent sophisticated by a close
acquaintance with the classics; the first,
journalists—Fitzgerald, Crosbie Ward and
the like—had at their finger-tips all the
graces of Pope and Addison. . And these
men, the arbiters of literary taste in a
young and remote community, backed by a
middle-class flavoring numerically stronger
and spiritually more arrogant than had
flocked to the establishment of any other
British outpost, were not the sort to favor
upstarts. Robert Burns might find himself,
to his own vast astonishment, a flattered
guest in Edinburgh drawing-rooms, idol of
an upper-class generation that had got
heartily sick of • the polished artificialities
of its poets, but there wasn’t a watering-
pot in Maoriland in the first half-century
of colonisation that would have deigned to
shed a drop on such an uncouth bud as
Henry Lawson.
And so, though Maorilanders are learning
to love the country to which their fore-
fathers were exiled, and to find, when they
themselves are exiled from its shores that
their foster-mother was supremely adorable
and unforgettable, they have fallen into
a habit of apologising for her as if she were
a poor relation. The phase will pass, and
the Gillespie collection of Maoriland stories
will be a milestone to mark the change.
Almost without exception these stories
are nicely planed and sand-papered. Glossi-
ness perhaps naturally appealed to a com-
piler who had his eye on a London pub-
lisher, otherwise The Bulletin— which, as
it is, provides (with a little assistance from
the “Lone Hand”) nearly a third of the
excerpts—might have been combed more
successfully for stories that have around
them the scent of the flax in the valleys
and the wonder of the fern-clad, ice-capped
mountains. There is only one out of the
30 or so of examples that really quite
catches a Maoriland tang, and that is one of
C. A. Jeffries’s “By Rail and Semaphore”
Bulletin yarns (probably written in exile),
which gets its effect merely by the reason
that the railway service of the Shivery Isles
in the days of which he wrote had a quite
untranslatable flavor. There are some
Maori stories—Sir George Grey and Johan-
nes C. Anderson figure in this section—but
they don’t even finish at where Fenimore
Cooper started on the Red Indian. A
comprehension of the decorative and dra-
matic possibilities of Maori life possibly
won’t arrive till the race has been extin-
guished by petrol fumes.
ARTHUR D. WYLIE.
Books Worth Reading
This list has been compiled by a com-
mittee nominated by the Associated
Booksellers of Australia and Maoriland,
and is printed as a guide to books of merit,
though not necessarily with the Red Page’s
support:—
Gen&'al Literature. —Gallipoli Memories,
by Compton Mackenzie; My Mystery Ships,
by Admiral Gordon Campbell, a reprint; Lord
Fisher, by Admiral Sir A. H. Bacon, (two
vols.) ; Memories, by John Galsworthy;
Walks Abroad, by S- Elliott Napier.
Novels of Literary Merit. —The Hawbucks,
by John Masefield ; The Anglo-Catholic, by
Shane Leslie; Dido, by Gertrude Atherton.
Novels for Popular Reading. —Virgin, by
H. A. Vachell; Far Wandering Men. by
John Russell; The Glenlitten Murder, by E.
Phillips Oppenheim; Queen Dick, by Alfred
Tressider Sheppard ; Cousin Beryl, by J. C.
Snaitli; Adventures of the Scarlet Pimpernel,
by Baroness Orczy; The Fish Hawk, by
Edison Marshall; The Big Shot, by Frank
L. Packard; The Fighting Tenderfoot, by
William McLeod Raine; The Flame of Life,
by Thomas Burke; The Murder in Romney
Marsh, by Edgar Jepson; The Happy Parrot,
by Robert W. Chambers; Murder on the
Underground, by Winifred , Boggs; Strange
Moon, by T. S. Stribling.
A Satchel of Books
Wilson’s Sydney and Suburban Street
Directory. —With a welcome wealth of de-
tail in maps and easily-grasped classification
of the highways and byways of Sydney and
beyond along the western line as far as
Mount Victoria, this production is as useful
as it is compact.
The Broken Magnet, by Brenda Muir Mac-
kenzie (Bodley Head). We meet again the
fascinating overseas officer who wins the love
of a nice girl in England during the war
(“frail-looking in her V.A.D. uniform, with
sleeves rolled up above daintily fragile
elbows”) but proves unsuitable. Roddy, the
naughty Canadian, and Margaret, who leaves
him when she discovers his ungentlemanly
goings-on, were novelties 10 years ago, but
their problem lacks interest nowadays. The
artificiality of the characters is compensated
for by some good descriptions of life in
northern Ontario.
The Subtle .Trail, by Joseph Collomb (The
Macmillan Co.. N.Y.). “What a talkie!”
the reader is liable to exclaim at the end.
The principal murder in this involved and
highly scientific though unconvincing work is
legally a case of suicide. The villain, whose
fantastic hideousness is due to “glandular
deficiency of the ante-pituitary,” first afflicts
Colonel Granger with claustrophobia or
dread of being locked up, and then lias’him
threatened with gaol The investigations of
the imperturbable Galt into the circumstances
which led the Colonel to blow his brains out
produce as many thrills as a week-end in
Chicago.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted:
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
R.11.P.: Anyway, we know now that you
never were divorced, or you’d know more about the
procedure.... Michaele B.: Can’t swallow a pint of
it —and there’s gallons. .. . M.M.: Well enough done.
Try a boys’ adventure magazine. .. .W.T.C.: There
are the marks of the workshop on it—the humorous
parts especially.... Peggy M.: We like to feel some-
thing between our teeth.... Buddy : Too fruity....
R.W.8.: Afraid you’ll not make much of a fist of it.
Your only hope lies in practising to write with
utter simplicity... .C.W.W.: You only wrote that.
You didn’t feel a word of it. .. .A.A.W. : The senti-
ments, at any rate, do you infinite credit... . N.E.S.:
“Surf —mirth,” “beauty—kewpie,” “dust —husk” —
see an ear doctor. .. .Willie Bloom: Not here. ...
W.G.S.: Don’t reprint.... Les P.: Echoes. ... R.W.S.:
It sounds like 16. i.. Whiddy: May we take up the
parable, according to St. James, from the point at
which his drinking cobber Bill got blowed up:—
“You know ’ow pore old Bill snuffed out,
’ls breath blue blazin’ fire;
By cripes, I take a solemn oath —-
You know I ain’t no liar.
“They sez pore Bill ’e just blew up,
’Struth that give me a fright.
I swears now never while I live
Will I —blow out a light!”
. ...A.W.J.: Much obliged to you; but we are not
concerned with that poor little thing’s ignorance.
... .Web: “Sporting Chance” hadn’t; it was drowned
in a flood of improbabilities... .C.D.S.: Promising.
But remember always that verse that matters
matters for its content and not for its clothes. .. .
Rona S.: Lacks the great virtue of sincerity...
Arthur P.: Good exercise. You’d probably get 95
per cent, for it in an exam Otia: Only thing
that really interested was the “chirrup—syrup”
rhyme... .C.L.S.: Drop it!. .. .W.M.W.: “Anzac”
poem takes some writing these days. ... Bushie:
Thanks, old friend, we’ll try to deserve them....
M.Y.: The Dry Dog was James Edmond’s invention.
George Reid was a Freetrader who (like most of
them) never practised Freefrade; he always depended
on a Customs tariff. Reid once said that the only
way to teach a dog to swim was to throw it in
the water. Thereafter The B. showed Reid’s Free-
trade as the dog that was never thrown in—-in
short, the Dry Dog R.G.L.: Eight lines of “The
Solution” (wouldn’t “Emulsion” be better?):—
The fact is simply this, I fear,
We need a mighty man to steer
This country through the shallow shoals
Of trouble brought about by coals.
In Rome they have their Mussolini,
Who hails from Italy, like Pliny.
How quickly castor oil and Bavin
Could make this foolish coal strike cave in.
. ...P.G.H.: No g00d... . Elbatt: Idea isn’t new
and it’s dragged out too long R.T.K.:
“The Old Bush Doctor” out of date... .M.M.J.H.:
“The Flier” crashed. .. .A.E.Y.: Hackneyed theme,
tritely treated. .. .G.G.0.: We called a stop-dreaming
meeting of the office poets, and they all said they
had never seen anything like it before E.H.K.:
At noon in the shade of some leafy tree
I boil my billy and make the tea,
And the exquisite pangs of hunger appease
With a hunk of damper and a piece of cheese.
Don’t mind you doing that, but why try to rhyme
“song” with “dawn” and “leaves” with “please” ?
.. . .P.E.S.: Obscure; and a bit pretentious. We’d
like you to keep 0n... .M.J.N.: Heavens, we are not
a salt-cellarMerbin: If it came back without
a remark you can take it for granted that it was
like a dandelion of the field—nothing much the
matter with it except that it was just like a million
more.... Jim C.: Not quite. Try something with
more emotion.... J.M.W.: Not very old, are you?
But distinctly promising W.R.M*. : “Cherish” lias
blemishes. Get to work on them F.T.W.: Can’t
see a glimmer.... G. Baradon: Pretty well done;
but not publishable at present. .. .Winifred H. :
Afraid we’ll never get over our prejudice against
“free” verse. The most detestable job of our youth
was to turn the handle of the chaffcutter
j’.S.: Macartney is a Victorian by birth; published
works: “Dewed Petals,” “Earthen Vessels,” “Com-
mercium,” “In War-time,” “Poems,” “Something for
Tokens” and “A Sweep of Lute Strings”.... Ground
P.: It might be all you say it is, but it reads like
a tangle of prawns’ whiskers 1.N.: The doing is
all right jit’s the done that is the sting.. . . A.8.C.:
Doesn’t quite fit the bill. .. .L.W.: An image like
“The old dam glistens under the sun like a moist
blue eye” would kill almost anything. ... King Hit:
As advice, sound ; as verse, downed.... Finghin Og:
Tried it on the guaranteed-to-grin machine, and the
thing burst out howling.... W.L.: Consideration duly
given, but there’s nothing much in ’em. . . . A.E.W. :
“Dog-Errant” doesn’t raise the scent here.... The
Hermit: “Ghosts” have walked... .P.P.: Not up,
but has a much more genuine ring than most of its
kind. . . .Covot: Tons better; but still the interest is
narrow... .H.A.D.: Even good expression is not
enough; it needs to be worth expressing. ... 8.L.5.:
Lame as a lion with a wooden leg. . . .ltaja : Nothing
worth expressing in it... .Myra J'.: Nice and healthy,
but not much else... .H.M.D.: Merely a personal
affair of a still night and the right girl, with a
word or two about heartbeats.... Esau: Don’t quite
know what to do with you. You’ve got the makings
of a good topical writer; but so garrulous. See if
you can’t cut something to the bone... .Victor K.:
“Memory” is only another bit of lumber in the
mental attic.... Semaphore: Dyed hair has been
hennaed to death.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.M.8.: W. Tell failed to hit the target....
C.D. : Colored head studies of movie actresses not
in our line. .. .A.P.: A bit of weeding and grubbing
would improve your style... .S.J.W.: Still struggling
on the outskirts... .G.P.: You’re beginning to sight
land. .. .T.0.D.: Let ’beats’ third visit be their
last... .P. 8.: Your characters are stiff and you use
too many lines; when you improve in these respects
there’ll be a chance for you. .. .Z.S.: You can’t draw.
.. . . J.D.: No room here for the family... .F.G. A. :
Decline to introduce lady who wanted to heave a
gas-stove at her husband... .F.A.M.: The two Maori-
land papers that returned your sketch showed good
judgment. .. .1.C.: That worm in the soup beat you.
. ...P.L.: Yes, jokes as well as drawings must be
original; the drawing pulls you down... .W.R.G.:
“The New Romance” met with a prosaic end....
J.S.: Boxer slugged out in one round. .. .C.K.: No
use for your full moon.


dghfd
dfg
.1
m,
■
' V
■
mm
■
:
• : .
m 1
■
i
■HHi
■
WM : Mr
(]'.?«• ••
- .. aPfe _ i
i-
■H :
. .
m
■Sr
4 ~2... *
I
■
A
&
.
¥2
ii
llfim
" .-■' ■ ; •
' “* ','. ' ' V ' :
* ||||l ! 'V>p|
ft
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 51.-—Xo. 2614.
JViarch 19, 1930.
THE “FREEDOM” OF INDIA.
"Gandhi, the Indian Nationalist leader, has set out on his campaign of civil disobedience, his object being to force the British to remove all restrictions on the
complete self-government of the native peoples.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man."
HEAD OFFICE: 214 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 B B; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne,
Queensland: 249 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 38 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.B.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6a.;
8 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: joz. to JOoz., lid.;
each additional 1,0 z., Id. All Sea Route: ICoz., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: joz. or part thereof.
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES . . 2, 5
THE PASSAGE”—the Prize-Winning' Story—
By Cecil Mann .. .. .. . . 2
D. H. LAWRENCE—
By M. G. Skipper . . . . . . 2, 5
AUSTRALIA’S PROSE ANTHOLOGIES—
By John Dailey .. . . . . . . 5
MAORILAND SHORT STORIES—
By A. D. Wylie 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . .. 5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON . . . , 7
EDITORIALS 8 9
THE MESS AND THE BANKS . . . . g
CAN MINING BE REVIVED? 8
SCULLIN WON’T FACE THE FACTS . . 8
COLLIER OR MITCHELL? .. .. 9
WASTE IN DISTRIBUTION 9
“The Bulletin" Novel Competition—
the Prize-winners 9
POLITICAL POINTS (with cartoonlets by
Frith) . . io
Shadow Shows—
A Guide to the Pictures .. 11
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL n
PERSONAL (with caricatures) .. .. .. 13
SOCIETY (with drawings) . . . . 14, 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) . . .. 16
“BELLE OF NEW YORK,” Sydney Majesty’s. . 16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS ' 18 20
THIS WEEK’S INVESTMENT TIP ’ is
COMMONWEALTH INSURANCE . . ” i 8
QUEENSLAND NATIONAL PASTORAL 18
W. E. SMITH . . . . lg
D. &W. CHANDLER . . . . " lg
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL INSURANCE ’ ’ 90
BANNER HOSIERY \ 20
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings! . . 23, 25
Free Service Department ..26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 31
HOW TO KEEP FARM ACCOUNTS . . . . 28
QUESTIONS ANSWERED 31
SMOKE-OH (with three drawings) . . . . 32
POVERTY POINT 35
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, etc 36
SPORTING (illustrated) .. .. ..39, 41, 42
MOOREFIELD RACES 39
V.A.T.C. RACES 39
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 45
SERIAL—“MEN ARE HUMAN”—
By Vance Palmer . . . . . . 47, 51, 52
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE .. ..48
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 50
“As We Said Before"—
A NEW WEEKLY FEATURE .. ..55
COMPLETE STORY—
“THE BATTLE OF EL BARRAZHE”—
By Charles Cooper . . .. .. 57, 58
VERSE—By J. Holloway, D. P. McGuire,
R. Crawford, Ivy Gibbs, Elsie Cole,
Kathleen Dalziel .. .. .. 52, 58
NEXT WEEK.
THREE STRIKING ARTICLES.
“AUSTRALIA’S NEXT TWELVE MONTHS”—
an attempt at a forecast.
“NOVEL NOTES AND EXCLAMATIONS”—
T. B. Clegg’s survey of The Bulletin’s Novel
Competition.
“THE AUSTRALIAN TRADE UNION CONGRESS
AS A RUSSIAN SAW IT.”
ffie'fyulldz/n
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 19, 1930.
THE MESS AND THE BANKS.
Australia’s present financial difficulties
resemble those of the early ’nineties in
one main feature and differ wholly in an-
other. In both cases the trouble was due
to heavy borrowing overseas; but whereas
in the ’nineties the loans were raised by
banks and other financial and unfinancial
institutions, in the present instance the
sinners are the Commonwealth and State
Governments. The banks have not only
held themselves aloof from the orgy into
which the politicians of every shade dragged
the country; they have for years past
foreseen a crisis and have kept themselves
in a position to come to the Government’s
help. That they are not in a position
to completely relieve the Governments of
their anxieties and embarrassments is due
entirely to the appalling extent of recent
public borrowings.
The part the banks have played and are
still playing is not only a thankless one; it
is liable to be misunderstood. During the
last month, for example, they have been
“rationing” credits abroad. Customers with
large Australian assets have found them
declining to transfer quite moderate sums
to London. The Commonwealth Bank,
the one Australian authority entitled to
issue currency-notes, has announced that
those notes are not to be cashed abroad.
All this looked like a serious reflection on
Australian banks, their methods and their
status. Yet in fact they are exceptionally
strong when measured by the standards
generally employed. They have kept their
dividends Well in hand and thus built up
large reserves; they accepted favorable
opportunities to get in large amounts of new
capital; they kept their deposit rates low
and did not seek money outside Australia.
Thus they built up shareholders’ funds
very large in proportion to their liabilities;
and that is the foundation of bank safety.
While foreign banks hold commonly £8 of
outside money to every £1 of their own,
the Bank of New South Wales has little
more than £5, and others have less. And
the Australian holding of liquid assets,
largely Australian bonds and notes, is in
most cases in the neighborhood of 40 per
cent, of all deposits. Their present difficulty
is indeed not to find money to pay their
own debts, but to place abroad gold to meet
the commitments and requirements of cus-
tomers.
But though it is not their own debts
they have to meet, they are deeply inter-
ested in the liquidation. Their prosperity
depends upon the prosperity of their cus-
tomers and the country. While insisting
on economy they are therefore constrained,
to help these to carry on. That same obliga-
tion rests with the public. There is always
a tendency at such times for people with
money in their pockets to button it up.
The case calls rather for liberal spending
on necessary and desirable things. Our
difficulty is solely connected with foreign
payments; our imports are too great for
our exports by approximately 40 millions
a year. While therefore our problem is
made more difficult by purchase of foreign
articles not essential to Australian industry,
it is simplified by increased Australian pro-
duction.
But there is a secondary problem—how
to get through the period of reorganisation
and readjustment; and here that section
of the community w’hich finds itself with
a few pounds may help greatly. Judicious
purchase of locally-made goods, judicious
expenditure on the improvement of farm
and station, judicious extension of factory
and workshop—at no time for many years
past have these things been so desirable
as they are now. The flow of foreign
goods into Australia, has been reduced and
will have to be reduced still further. The
spending of foreign loan moneys has slowed
down and will have to slow down still
further. This has meant that thousands
of people have been thrown out of jobs,
and, most unfortunate as it is to contem-
plate, thousands more will be throw’n out.
No time ought to be lost in absorbing them
in undertakings paid for with local money.
The ideal absorption is in something that
will (1) increase production for export or
(2) displace foreign imports. Included in
the former is the practical encouragement
of mining and prospecting; and the best
help the public can give in the second
effort is by buying.
With a pound in his hand, the Australian
can buy a foreign hat and send most of
the money away at a time when every
penny sent away adds to our difficulties;
or he can buy an Australian hat and not
only keep the whole of the money in the
country, but give employment to Aust-
ralians at a time when every penny earned
will help us out of our troubles. With a
shilling he can buy a foreign magazine and
add to his own difficulties by sending most
of the money out of the country to be
lost to us for ever; or he can buy some-
thing Australian and not only keep the
money in this country, but give employ-
ment to Australians who in turn will give
employment to other Australians. This is a
time when patriotism and self-interest go
hand in hand.
It may be that for the moment the banks
are fully occupied in the struggle to make
money available to meet unavoidable
demands abroad. By rationing credit they
are doing the great national service of
reducing imports of non-essentials. But
they may be reasonably looked to to assist
in solving our secondaiy problem—that of
carrying us through our period of readjust-
ment. On that side what seems to The
Bulletin to be their obligation and the
obligation of all of us is to encourage pro-
duction, which means employment; and
the most direct and obvious way of
encouraging production is by buying the
product.
CAN MINING BE REVIVED?
The best-informed opinion in Queensland
is that the State has large and varied
mineral resources. Apart from coal the
minerals recovered in 1917 were valued
at £2,653,978; in spite of the aforesaid
opinion, 11 years later the output was
valued at less than one-sixth of the former
total, viz., £415,226. To restore the better
days of the past the late Labor Administra-
tion, with great faith in royal commissions,
constituted one to indicate the straight and
narrow path. Its report has just been pub-
lished, and almost without exception its
observations and conclusions are as applic-
able to all Australia as they are to Queens-
land.
For the present nearly moribund con-
dition of the industry the Commission
blames:—
(1) Deterioration in ore values at depth;
(2) Difficulty in finding suitable new
deposits;
(3) Increased production costs;
(4) Adverse and unstable metal markets.
The sheaf of recommendations to neutralise
these perfectly obvious factors may be
reduced to: —
(a) Liberalisation of mining laws with
easier obtained and cheaper titles;
(b) Relief from the burden of tariffs on
imported mining machinery;
(c) An 88-hour fortnight for underground
workers;
(d) Fewer statutory holidays;
(e) Preferential railway freights;
(f) Considerable exemption from taxation
and stamp duties ;
(g) A greatly strengthened Geological Sur-
vey Department, with a Mineral Resources
branch, to scientifically assist prospecting by
geophysics, etc., and to make more system-
atic surveys of the State’s mineral re-
sources.
Armed with these and, necessarily, a com-
monsense realisation of present-day econo-
mics, the Commission believes that the
State with Which it was primarily occupied
should enjoy a revival in its mining
industry.
The report appeared on the day when the
world-market price of lead was £lB 10s.,
of zinc £l7 15s. and of tin £159 7s. 6d.—
all phenomenally low. These are three of
the principal metals from which activity in
mining in Queensland might be expected.
The output of copper and lead is even now
a mere driblet; and Herberton, lately the
one prosperous tin centre, is threatened with
closing down. The metal prices, in con-
junction with the cost of mining in Queens-
land, form a bastion of adverse economic
conditions against which whole armies of
commissions may propel millions of sheaves
of recommendations without reducing it by
assault.
The Commission unsuspectingly demon-
strates why Queensland in particular and
Australia in general cannot compete more
successfully with other metalliferous
countries by quoting (p. 33) the case of
comparatively inexperienced men being able
to earn from £2 to £3 per shift of eight
hours in shaft-sinking at Mt. Isa, while
the most highly skilled miners in Canada
earn no more than 255. for a full eight-
hour shift (p. 103). It may be that Mt.
Isa will be an outstanding success, despite
onerous and adverse conditions, on account
of its unique-sized ore bodies; but we
cannot shut our eyes to the fact that one
powerful organisation was not prepared to
take the risk. The balance of the northern
State’s mining industry is now threatened
because it is unlawful to have a sliding
scale of wages according to the market
metal prices, as is done in U.S.A. and
Canada.
So miners must step into the already
overcrowded ranks of the unemployed, not
being permitted to keep going on a wage
the can afford to pay. How long
they will go on putting up with it Heaven
only knows.
THE NOVEL COMPETITION.
In The Bulletin Novel Competition of
1927-28 the judges had to consider the
merits of 540 manuscripts. That, the first
of the competitions, set a standard and
had the anticipated effect. In the 1929-30
competition, with 275 entries, the average
quality was much higher. This improve-
ment was, however, more in the technique
of expression than in the art of construc-
tion. The former most marked defect
persisted—the weakness of the middle sec-
tion. It still seems necessary to the body
of our writers to take a breathing space
after the initial strain before getting on to
the climax. So marked, in some instances,
is this practice of filling the middle of
the novel with sawdust that the reader has
lost interest in the principal characters be-
fore he can pick them up again.
Another defect is the inability of many
writers to secure a clean climax. Repeatedly
the ending of the novel was frayed, some-
times marred, by positive anti-climax.
Following the early-Victorian novelists, the
writers, mistrusting both the intelligence
and the imagination of their readers, tacked
on to the legitimate ending a denouement
which cleared up the inconsequential lives
of subordinate characters frequently dragged
in only for middle-section padding. An
illustration of this was found in one of the
most thoughtful novels submitted. It
was a study of the development of spiritual
and aesthetic qualities in a woman, starved
of intellectual food by the rigor of a narrow
creed, under the influence of a man whose
character was informed by a sensitive re-
sponse to natural beauty and a wide range
of thought. His death was her life’s catas-
trophe, and with it the story should have
ended; but the author carried on till
the woman’s life sank back into the sordid
surroundings from which it had been lifted.
To strangers who get their impressions
of Australia from the Australian novel, our
country consists of sheep and cattle stations,
primeval bush, gold deposits and wastes of
desert sand. Over-frequently its heroes are
knights of the stockwhip and its heroines
amazons of plain and hill. A few conven-
tional types thus stand for our people,
leaving unexplored an infinite diversity of
character. One of the many attractions
which the judges found in “The Passage,”
the prize-winning novel, is that it gets
away from the back country to our wonder-
ful littoral. No country in the world can
show’ a coast richer in beauty and more
diversified in form. The men and women
who dwell on its great reaches are as
interesting in their lives and as fine in
their qualities as their brothers and sisters
who dwell out west or in the Far North.
Vance Palmer does Australia a _ con-
spicuous service in so brilliantly bringing
before the English-reading world these other
scenes and types.
Every novel has, or should have, a per-
vasive theme. Mr. Palmer offers a very
striking example of such a theme: it is
like an organ note, deep and sonorous.
So many writers are content to _ skate on
the surface of life. To them there is but one
essential motive and that is passion in the
guise of love. Love is a universal factor,
but not the exclusive one they make it. In
some entries this love-motive reached satu-
ration point. The tinkle of the triangle was
to them the music of the spheres, and it was
a genuine relief to turn even to the stodgy
but veritable accounts of pioneers and
pioneering. There were a few’ historical
novels, some quite good; but in the judges’
search for originality the ready-made char-
acters of history, however deftly handled,
did not strongly appeal. There were
authors, too, who delighted in unearthing
lost civilisations—one discovered his treasure
in the region of Portuguese Africa; another
in the little explored Nor’-West of Aus-
tralia. Most fantastic of them was the
Kingdom of Perfected Souls, on an island
without latitude or longitude, in which the
individual was merged into the universal.
To reach this Nirvana three ordeals had to
be passed: an encounter with sharks, a
shower of spears and a bath of boiling oil.
The Society of Perfected Souls was, obvi-
ously, exclusive.
Authors browsed freely on material
abroad. One quite good novel took for its
screen the Russian revolution; another did
a flutter in revolutionary China, and one
roamed about Arabia with a truly remark-
able Sheik. The broadest canvas of all
was required by the author who started his
story in pre-historic days and traced through
time a line of red-headed ancestors with
an inherited lust that wrecked the lives
of an otherwise most respectable twentieth-
century family.
Add to this defective list many simple
and earnest domestic efforts, and some idea
will be gained of the cargo of lost hopes
that will go down with “the declaration of
the winners.” But these are but the dead
that rise again; to the literary aspirant
life is a long succession of the resurrections
of the hope that really dies only when
the pen falls from lifeless fingers.
T. B. CLEGG.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Mr. Scullin Gets Half of It.
The Scullin-Theodore Ministers have
absorbed half the truth, at any rate, about
the financial situation; Mr. Scullin’s speech,
to the House when it got to business
showed that much. But if they see the
other half they won’t yet admit it. Said
the Labor Priminister:—
“It would be a policy of despair to declare
that costs of production and development are
too high to permit of the expansion of our
industries. We must face the position
frankly. Suggestions that wage reductions
are essential to increased production can-
not be allowed to pass unchallenged.
Employment is the barometer of prosperity.”
It is not a policy of despair to declare that
costs are too high. It would be a policy
of despair to declare that they are too high
and cannot be reduced.
Costs are too high. If they are not too
high, how is it that our metal-mines have
closed down one after the other, and even
some of the greatest of the Broken Hill
mines have only been kept going through
the generosity of the British Government?
How is it that our export trade in coal has
almost vanished? How is it that hundreds
of tons of our fruit rots under the trees
every year? How is it that millions of
tons of gold-bearing stone remains un-
worked? How is it that our timber trade
is almost at zero, while the import of
timber remains brisk? How is it that our
wine and our sugar have to be buttressed
with special marketing schemes, having, in
one case, at any rate, the effect of a huge
bonus? How is it that thousands of men
have thrown up even wheat-farming, one
of the most hopeful of our industries?
Mr. Scullin says we must face the posi-
tion frankly. On present appearances he
is not doing it. He is frankly facing only
half the position.
That wage reductions are essential to
increased production can be challenged, he
says. The Bulletin goes much further
than that. It says not merely that the
necessity for wage reductions is chal-
lengeable; it holds that reductions are un-
necessary. Indeed, the more men earn the
better. But for years past they have been
encouraged to believe that what they earn
doesn’t matter. We have had basic wages
and other insanities established without the
smallest regard for earnings. All that will
have to go. Wages must be governed by
production; and there is no reason why the
industrious and competent workman should
not make up to 50 per cent, more than he
has been receiving hitherto.
The Bulletin suggests to Mr. Scullin
that this is not only a time when we must
face the position frankly; it is a time when
it is the Prime Minister’s duty to state
the position frankly.


“Penalty, £lOOO per Day.”
The Labor Party candidate who did not
rend the welkin with the name of John
Brown, and make the heavens resound with
song on account of the withdrawal of the
prosecution against him at last election,
was not fit for his job. Many thousands
of votes were lost to the Nationalists
because of this matter, for there were very
many of their number who could not
accept the reasons that were given in
excuse of the Ministry’s action.
When the Scullin Ministry obtained office
it should as a first step in the settlement
of the coalfields trouble have done what
it blamed the Bruce Ministry for having
failed to do-—it should have instituted a
prosecution under the relevant section
against all parties responsible for the ces-
sation of work. The section penalises “any
person or organisation bound by an award
of the Court, or entitled to the benefit of
an award of the Court,” who does “anything
in the nature of a lockout or strike, or
continues any lockout or strike” ; and there-
fore if there was any offence committed
when employment at the mines was termi-
nated, a punishable offence is being com-
mitted every day that the cessation con-
tinues.
The default of the Scullin Ministry in
this matter is a blunder of the largest pos-
sible dimensions. The Arbitration Acts in
every line are drawn to enable workmen
to obtain fair wages and continuous employ-
ment. If an award is for any reason
unworkable or oppressive, variation may
under certain conditions be obtained, but
until a new or varied award is obtained
employment must continue under the exist-
ing wages and conditions: any action by
either party causing a cessation of employ-
ment involves a penalty of £lOOO under the
section cited.
Mr. Scullin fought at the election for
retention of Federal Arbitration Courts.
Why does he not invoke their powers now?
He promises new laws relating to arbitra-
tion : why does he not make proper use of
the laws in force now? Why, in short, has
he fallen down on his job?
♦
Collier’s Good Start.
Philip Collier has been Premier of West-
ralia since April, 1924, and M.L.A. for
Boulder since October, 1905. He had to
fight. hard for his seat in the early days,
and later, when the conscription controversy
divided the miners into two camps; but
with the dying down of war passions his
hold on it has become stronger than ever.
For the general election to be held on
April 12 he has been returned unopposed.
So have three of his Ministers (McCallum
of the Works, Munsie of the Mines, and
Cunningham of Water Supply) and five
members of the rank and file, while only
two non-Labor Assemblymen are without
opponents. It is a good start towards
another Labor victory at the polls.
Nevertheless the election is expected to
be a close thing. The redistribution of
seats has wiped out four goldfield divisions
which were certainties for Labor, and an-
other (Mt. Margaret) in which the party
would have had an even-money chance.
And it is doubtful whether Yilgarn, in which
there are now more farmers than miners
and railwaymen, can be successfully de-
fended. Then the Nationalists and the
Agrarians are pulling together once more.
They were on bad terms in 1924 and again
in 1927, and the Country party was on each
occasion a prey to factions which have now
disappeared.
“Keep Collier Premier!” was the Labor
slogan in 1927. An acknowledgment,
unique in its way, that the man from
Boulder was his party’s greatest asset; and
that he still is. Westralia, with some war-
rant, regards him as the safest and soundest
Labor politician in Australia. During his
term of office wheat production has doubled,
and there has been a great spread of pas-
toral settlement on abandoned goldfields;
and the public gives him a share of the
credit. It also holds itself indebted to him
for a one-third reduction in income-tax
rates, and only grins when critics protest
that the oracle was worked with the aid
of Commonwealth grants. The Govern-
ment may fairly claim to have been active
in promoting Westralian interests and in
defending them when they were attacked
or threatened. It has borrowed too much;
but then they all have. Perhaps it is not
cut out for governing in difficult times,
but it has fairly earned a chance of show-
ing that it can adapt itself to them. The
alternative is another Jimmy Mitchell
Ministry; and Mitchell, like Lionel Hill
in South Australia, is still living in 1921
and talking in millions which can no longer
be got.
+
The Mischievous Politician.
An outstanding memorial to the mischiev-
ous politician is the Debt Adjustment Act
1929 of South Australia. Its main object
is to preclude creditors of impecunious
farmers from pressing for payment of their
debts. If a farmer can satisfy the director
appointed under the Act that his financial
circumstances, due to adverse seasons and
the like, are such that he cannot meet his
debts, a protection order is issued whereby
creditors’ rights are postponed for a period
not running beyond June, 1931. The rights of
creditors holding security obtained since
but not before, December 1, 1929, are pre-
served, but unsecured creditors, except for
certain ineffective remedies given by the
Act, are quite powerless.
The novelty of this legislation makes it
rather startling. It is not definitely a
moratorium. It is quite optional for a
debtor to exercise his rights to apply for
protection. Only six persons have done so
in the last three months. It cannot be
thought that a farmer, dependent as he is
on credit to such an extent, would be so
foolish as to jeopardise his position by
applying for protection. Obviously a pro-
tection order once obtained would make
every person with whom he dealt refuse
the smallest margin of credit. After-harvest
credit, rightly or wrongly, is an accepted
method of dealing throughout Australia.
If the harvest turns out to be nothing, the
belt is tightened and things carry on until
after the next harvest. Such a method of
business, however, is only possible where
all interested parties have the utmost con-
fidence in each other and are unfettered in
their dealings. This Debt Adjustment Act
engenders uneasiness and makes the trading
community extremely wary as to the extent
of credit it grants in any case. This, in
turn, must tend to drive the small farmer
out of operation and react eventually to
the prejudice of the whole State.
♦
Waste and the Delivery Cart.
It seems very likely that more money is
wasted in distribution (including trans-
port) in Australia than directly in pro-
duction. Almost without exception our
railways and tramway systems, besides
being extravagantly constructed, are
wickedly overmanned and over-officered.
In the Sydney Central railway station on
a recent day a Bulletin man, engaged on
this inquiry, Watched two porters with two
2ft. 6in. brooms propel one discarded tram-
ticket along a platform for 18 minutes; and
presumably the same or a similar operation
was repeated on a hundred platforms all
day long.
But it is not only in an overmanned
and underworked public service that there
is appalling waste. Eveiy urban area is
dotted with fruit and vegetable shops. In
one Sydney residential suburb the Bulletin
man engaged on this inquiry counted nine
within a radius of 600 yards. The rents
added to the price of the fruit and vege-
tables vended in these places amounted to
approximately £lOO a week. Two shops
would have been ample for all require-
ments. The public of that small section
of one suburb, largely occupied by trades-
men, clerks and shop-assistants, was bur-
dening itself with weekly bills of £BO for'
rent and £4O for labor, lighting, etc., which
Were entirely superfluous and avoidable.
Our competitors are not all so foolish.
In France it is rare to see a fruit and
vegetable shop in a good-sized town. In
all Nice—and Nice is the most populous
watering-place in the French Riviera—there
are not half a dozen fruitshops as we
know them. The entire population goes
to the market and does its shopping there,
hiring, if need be, women porters to carry
the purchases home, though mostly the
carrying is done by the buyer herself. The
patient Chinaman goes off on his rounds
in Sydney carrying about Bs. worth of fruit
and vegetables. To pay himself and his
fares and allow for theft and waste he
has to add 150 per cent, to his cost price.
And then we wonder why fruit and veget-
ables are dear.
There probably is no white city in the
v.'orld where less hand-carrying is done than
in Sydney—and Melbourne is only a shade
better. The American house-father goes
home habitually loaded with parcels;
almost everything the Australian buys has
to be delivered. The cost of the delivery
is often greater than the cost of the article.
So H.C.L. climbs higher and higher;
and we pass the increase on and on until
that producer is reached who has to com-
pete in the markets of the world. He, poor
devil, finds nobody to whom he can pass
it; wherefore he takes his belt in another
hole, and finally gives up the struggle. Then
we suddenly discover that our exports are
40 millions short of what they ought to be
to pay for our imports.
# ••
Disfranchised Papua.
As a result of the Federal Government’s
reprieve of a Papuan native convicted of
an atrocious crime, coupled with the sub-
servient acquiescence of the Executive
Council which had confirmed the sentence,
white Papua has revived the agitation
for elective representation on that Council.
At present Papua is in the position of an
inferior Crown Colony. A small quota of
non-official whites is nominated to the
Council by the Governor, the appointments
being confirmed in due course by certain
Tite Barnacles at Canberra. These see to
it that the official representatives are numer-
ous enough to outvote the outsiders if
necessary. It is asserted by those opposed
to present methods that even the nominees
are carefully selected for their subservience
to official ideals—a complaint, however, old
as Crown Colonies themselves.
According to those who are asking for
elective representation, there are now some
1200 white settlers in the Possession who
are deprived of citizen rights. Not only
this, but they are worse off under the
control of democratic Australia than many
of the inhabitants of the more enlightened
Crown Colonies such as Fiji, where the
European community is represented by
elected members, and Kenya, where even
the alien Indian has the same privilege.
Doubtless it is too early to hand over the
whole administration, including native
policy and finance, to the control of an
elective chamber or chambers. But there
cannot be any honest doubt that the time
is overdue for granting a measure of par-
ticipation in the Possession’s councils to
members elected by the white community;
and along with that should come repre-
sentation of some kind in the Federal
Parliament. The accession of a Labor
Government to power in Australia gave
rise to strong hopes that the anomalies
prevailing in Papua would be remedied by
a party which is supposed to stand for
popular control. So far, however, the only
evidence of any interest in Papua has been
interference with the course of justice.
Saving the Mothers.
Because the death-rate of mothers in child-
birth is considerably lower in England than
m Australasia, Dame Janet Campbell was
asked to come here and advise the Com-
monwealth concerning the best ways of
reducing this phase of mortality. Dame
Campbell, in her final report, rehearses
the figures relevant to that con-
clusion. • The annual average of deaths in
motherhood per 1000 cases from 1911 to
1928 inclusive was: England and Wales,
3.82; Queensland, 5.36; N. S. Wales, 5.34;
S. Aus., 4.95; W. Aus., 4.86; Vic., 4.71; and
Tas., 4.66. The Commonwealth average
was 5.05. The disparity between Australia
and Britain and the variations between the
States of the Commonwealth may be more
an index to differences in climatic condi-
tions and the nature of settlement than to
anything else, but there can be no doubt
about the room for improvement in Aus-
tralia’s measures for safeguarding mater-
nity, and Dame Campbell’s recommenda-
tions should receive earnest consideration.
A third of the Australian deaths are due
to puerperal infection, a fifth to kidney ail-
ments associated with pregnancy, and a
seventh to accidents, included in which
category are abortions, of which this country
has a higher proportion than most others.
The prevalence of septic cases is fostered
by a warm climate, which makes it all the
more necessary to guard vigorously against
infection. Hence in the forefront of her
recommendations the lady from overseas
places the better training of midwives. So
far as N. S. Wales is concerned most of her
detailed advice on this score has been
already put into practice, but there are
other States not so favorably situated.
Stress is laid in the report on the necessity
for pre-natal supervision. There are pre-
natal clinics at most of the bigger maternity
hospitals; it is a matter of propaganda to
ensure that more use is made of them.
An important recommendation is that
health irregularities after childbirth should
be made notifiable to the health authority,
which should be able to place the services of
a bacteriologist, a consulting obstetrician or
a trained nurse, or, if necessary, hospital
accommodation, at the disposal of the
poorest patients. It would cost much
money, and we shall have to do without
many desirable things that cost money dur-
ing the next few years; but meantime we
might profitably extend and co-ordinate the
work of existing voluntary organisations.
4
The Christian in His Blindness.
In the days before the Federal Govern-
ment substituted a voluntary for the com-
pulsory defence system, among the most
persistent spraggers of the Defence wheel
were some of the churches. These allied
themselves with the extremist rabble in
decrying the so-called militaristic spirit,
and had many things to say on the subject
of its evil associations and its ill effect on
the rising generation. Experience of the
system squelched the opposition—of the
religious at least. It has, however, again
wakened to life at a suggestion that “wet”
canteens, banned in the training camps
under the compulsory system, may be re-
established under voluntary training.
There are two things to be said of the
“wet” canteen in this connection. The most
obvious is that the trainee who objects to
alcohol, or fears to face its temptations, is
not now compelled to enter a camp at all.
Also, in the light of experience gained from
years of compulsory “dry” camps, it is
debatable whether a properly controlled
“wet” canteen under camp discipline is not
preferable to allowing trainees a free run
among unsupervised licensed houses outside
the camp limits during the frequent inter-
vals of leave.
In any case, it is very doubtful, as the
Minister has pointed out, whether the
Defence authorities have any power to for-
bid “wet” canteens under a voluntary
system. If that is so, and if the beer which
is the only liquor permitted to be sold in
a camp canteen makes its appearance again,
we have the word of some of these well-
meaning folk that they will do their utmost
to nullify even the present inadequate
effort of the country’s Government to
maintain that country inviolate against the
outside aggression that threatens more and
more insistently as the years go by. It is
not a very noble ambition, and the prin-
ciple which it professes to uphold seems
hardly worth the possible sacrifices, which
may include even the sacred cause of
teetotalism.
4
“T.P.”: The article on “Young Australia
and Its Teachers” (B. 12/2/’3O), suggested
by the ridiculous resolution of the Vic.
Women Teachers’ Association protesting
against the non-appointment of Victorians
to the Film Censorship Board, impels me to
point out that the said association consists
of an insignificant minority of disgruntled
teachers outside the great union under
whose banner the vast majority of teachers
march. The V.S.T.U. has for the foremost
planks of its fighting platform the very
things that are at the heart of The Bulle-
tin—the abolition of inter-State jealousies,
national thought, “an Australian standard
certificate, backed by standardised training
and standardised salaries and conditions.”
After 45 years’ intimate knowledge, I can
say honestly that “Australia” has been the
constant watchword of the Vic. Teachers’
Union. The prattle of an excrescence
like the V.W.T.A. may therefore be ignored.
“BULLETIN” PRIZE NOVELS
Second Competition
The Second “Bulletin” Novel Competition closed on December 31,
and the judges, having considered the 2 75 entries, award the
prizes as follows:—
FIRST (£400): “The Passage,” by Vance Palmer.
SECOND (£250): “Wards of the Outer March,” by K. G. Taylor
(Daniel Hamline).
THIRD (£100): “Cattle Camp,” by J. J. Hardie.
HIGHLY COMMENDED.
Author’s
Title. Pen-name.
“The Sow’s Ear ’ Eurus
“Blue North” Kullinoah
“Johnny” Edinensis
Author’s
Title. Pen-name.
“Break o’ Day” Mateewa
Alien Corn Sorcerer
“The Silent Voice” Toe H.
COMMENDED.
“The White Mantle,”
Max Masterman
“Bitter Bread” . . . Ian Grove
“The Involuntary Adventure,”
Andrew
“A Knight in Moleskins” . . Warrego
“The Affair at Ardree . Alison Starr
“Thin Smoke” Merentio
“Billabong Gold,” Advance Australia
“The Three Daughters” . . Kinapaka
“Holiday” Waradgery
“Winning Out” 183 7
“Boy in the Dusk” Kelburn
"Poet Polish” Bokhara
“Circumstantial Evidence,”
Dobroyd
“The Three Waterholes,”
E. M. Hosking
“The Duffers” Ellen de Lacy
Lost Valley Billabong
“Morning Glory” Koongara
Portraits of the prize-winners will be found on Page 16. Something about
them and their literary methods will be printed in next week’s “Bulletin.” The
opening chapters of Vance Palmer’s winning story of which Cecil Mann
has something to say in this week’s Red Page—will be printed in “The
Bulletin” on April 16.


STILL SUPREME
SHELL
MDTDR DIL & SPIRIT
I
•".’h
r ■ - •
1
m
sa ■
mmm r
697fc
POLITICAL
POINTS
The latest conference over the Newcastle
coal dispute ended almost before it began.
The miners’ representatives insisted on pre-
stoppage conditions, and if pre-stoppage con-
ditions weren’t so utterly hopeless that
might be the correct attitude to take. Tech-
nically, perhaps it is, because there was an
award in the industry, and the owners finally
shut down their mines rather than obey it.
But it is about time the miners realised that
technicalities won’t fill empty bellies.
John Brown’s estate will provide a lot of
revenue for the Commonwealth and N.S.W.
Treasurers, though not nearly as much as
if he had died 12 months ago. And they
may have to wait for it till the next finan-
cial year. The death duties are sure to be
on the highest scale; that is, 20 p.c. State
“Let it rain! Let it pour!”
and 15 p.c. Federal. So if the valuation is
£1,500,000 —of course it may not be any-
thing like that—Stevens will collect £300,000
and Theodore £225,000.
The British Navy used to be based on the
two-Power standard. Since the war J. Bull
consented to a one-Power standard, Uncle
Samuel being the other party. People in
England now begin to suspect a drift towards
a one-horse-Power standard. Ramsay Mac-
Donald has cut another four millions off the
naval estimates.
The excess of imports over exports for the
first seven months of last fiscal year (July 1,
1928, to Jan. 31, 1929) was £4,038,238; for
the first seven months of the current year
it was £21,255,896, notwithstanding that
£9,660,676 of gold was exported this year as
against £1,481,491. The rush down the steep
place was so terrific that no wonder banks
were alarmed, and Commonwealth notes were
made no longer cashable abroad. But though
the peg has been put in it hasn’t been
driven in nearly hard enough; it has to be
remembered that besides paying for imports
we have to provide for about 30 millions of
interest on foreign loans.
The Victorian Drys have received the
blessing of Edison and Henry Ford; but
they haven’t had much help
from the Americans who have
lately come ashore in these
parts. Almost without excep-
tion they say it is far easier to
get liquor in N’York of an even-
ing than it is in Melbourne.
Some of them talk of the rivers
of booze that flow through their
cities; and there is a story of
an American who visited Venice,
and when floating down the
canals in a gondola remarked ;
“Say, if this stuff had whisky
in it, I should guess somebody
had been trying to make this
town dry.”
In Dry U.S.A. last year 50 times more
murders were committed than in Wei
Britain. There are estimated to be 60,000
criminals at large in N’York and 10,000 in
Chicago. They are nearly all convinced
Prohibitionists, being nearly all in the grog
and dope business.
Gandhi has started on another campaign
of civil disobedience and the re-establishment
of village industries. Modern industry,
which includes factory production, irrigation,
railways and electric power, has made it
possible for India to sustain a population
of 350 millions. Return to the simple life
would probably reduce it to less than 150
millions. If the loin-clothed ascetic’s scheme
is realised Gandhi will go down in history
as the greatest destroyer since Genghis Khan.
Hughes’s “Australian” party has entered
on the lean and slippered and toothless stage.
Its objects were always going to be declared,
but it never got further than stating that it
stood for purification and regeneration, and
would fill an aching void. Moderate cam-
paigning in
suburbs and
minor towns
left it the same
sketchy ghost.
The other day
the Sydney
branch decided
that the Austra-
lian party only
existed for the
“personal
advancement” of
Hughes, though
he didn’t ad-
vance, and to
express how
bad he felt to-
wards his old
associates. It
was decided to
form a new
organisation, its
Pilgrims.
apparent purpose being to be tired of
Hughes. Perhaps Billy’s best course would
be to buy a loincloth and join Gandhi.
South Africa asked London financiers for
£6,000,000 at £9B 10s. per £lOO, and offered
the low interest rate of 5 per cent. It suc-
ceeded in getting the money, but the under-
writers had to find most of it. Still
with Commonwealth 5 per cent, securities
selling in London at about £9O 155., the
Afrikanders were in luck to get £6,000,000
from anybody.
When urging the heads of Vic. Public
Service to combine economy with efficiency,
i Hogan employed an illustration which
! prompted sly glances at Jones, the only other
'Minister present. “We must cut our clothes
according to our cloth,” the Premier said,
“and if we have no cloth we must use our old
clothes.” Jones’s face was a study in con-
flicting emotions. He is a tailor in a big
way.
There is talk of the Federal Government
prosecuting the Newcastle owners if they
start working their mines at the reduced
rates. Somebody should have been prose-
cuted long ago. The law prescribes a penalty
of £lOOO per day for a strike or a lockout,
and certainly if it hasn’t been one of these
things it has been the other. Apparently
both Governments, first Bruce’s and then Scul-
fin’s, have been afraid to shoot lest they
might bring down the wrong bird.
“What will you people, do in the nest
Parliament if you hold the balance of
power?” This question has been put to the
little South Aus. Country party, and Cam-
eron, its leader, replies in this honest and
sensible strain :
We will submit to the Liberal and Labor parties
proposals for the election of a Ministry at a joint
sitting of both Houses, in accordance with our
policy. If these proposals are unacceptable we will
support in office, pending good administration, which-
ever is the greater in numbers of the other two
parties, but we will not enter into any composite
Ministry with. either.
It is the right policy for a third party and
for South Aus. Good luck to the Agrarian
group!
This is emphatically a time when thrifty
people should be encouraged to invest in
As it seemed to Hiram.
employment-giving companies, but that queer
bird the Australian politician persists in
penalising those who do it. The Vic. “Tax-
payer” quotes an example of emu-brained
discrimination. Under the Theodore and
Hogan income taxes, a Victorian drawing
£6OO in dividends from concerns like Dunlop-
Perdriau, Rosella, Swallow and Ariell, Pres-
tige and Yarra Falls has to deliver up £S2
10s. A slum landlord receiving the same
income from Richmond rents is taxed a
mere £4l 2s. lid. __
As the Vic. Uppish House will jib at
increasing the income tax unless there is an
accompanying stamp duty on wages, which
the Hogan Government won’t have, it will
not be surprising if the Liquor Licensing
Fund is raided to provide work for the unem-
ployed. This prediction is based on the
likelihood of Prohibition being rejected by
100,000 votes or so on March 29. Bung
will then be safe for eight years, and can
build up another substantial balance. The
last raid qn the fund was made eight years
ago. It is now £417,000 in credit, and the
notion is to grab half.
Australian railway goods rates are very
erratic; often more so than it is easy to
explain. Thus in N.S.W. last year it cost
£2 13s. 4d. to send a ton of “second-class
goods” and a ton of manure 100 miles. That
was 3s. 6d. for the manure and £2 9s. lOd.
for the second-class goods. It is much the
same in all the States. The man with the
motor-dray has worked up a good business
by under-selling the railways on high-priced
articles, and leaving them in full possession
of the manure, etc. Now there is a tendency
to make note of the big customers who send
their expensive traffic by cheap dray, and
to tell them that their manure, etc., must
travel by the same vehicle or pay a special
charge on the train.
One Richardson, Nationalist M.L.A. for
Subiaco (W.A.), garnished an election
speech with a demand that Westralia should
secede from the Commonwealth by reason of
the Federal tariff. His leader, ex-Premier
Jimmy Mitchell, promptly committed himself
and party to the same programme. He said
that too many Protectionist straws had been
piled on the squashed Freetrade camel at
Perth, and that the breakaway should be
immediate. But though it is the fashion
among these Perth politicians to shout Free-
trade they possibly want less of it rather
than more, but are unconscious of the fact.
It is really inter-State Fretrade that makes
them prance and boil.
In pre-Federation days Westralia, under
its separate tariff, was a mighty collector
of Customs dues. Take the Customs collec-
tions per inhabitant for 1898: —
N. S. Wales.. £0 18 11 Tasmania .. £2 6 6
South Australia 112 0 Queensland .. 2 15 3
Victoria .. 112 10 Westralia .. 5 8 8
And the separate tariff was wide as well
as thick. In the Year-Book of Australia
(1901) a condensed enumeration _of the
Westralian duties fills 1042 lines, while those
of Victoria, always cited as the parent of
Australian Protection, occupy only 917.
Westralia disliked Freetrade so much that
it came into the union on the exceptional
condition that it might run its own separate
tariff for a few years. As a separate State,
when there was no war debt to swell the
public burdens, the big West took more
from its people by its tariff than the Govern-
ment at Canberra takes now.
Legislation for the stricter control of soli-
citors and auditors will be forced on Queens-
land’s Moore Government by the strong
remarks of Macrossan, J., from the Criminal
Court Bench. “There have been several
cases of gross carelessness displayed by audi-
tors quite recently,” his Honor said during
the hearing of a charge of theft against a
girl clerk. And in the affair of the solicitor
McCowan, who misappropriated trust money
on the grand scale, the Judge stated that he
himself had communicated with the Law
Society drawing its attention to documents
gravely reflecting on McCowan. The society
did nothing for 18 months, and McCowan
continued to make a welter of it until he
was arrested and sentenced to 14 years.
One of Scullin’s Constitutional Alteration
Bills goes far beyond anything previously
submitted in that line. Section 128 provides
that “this Constitution shall not be altered”
unless “a majority of the States... .and....
a majority of all the electors voting” have
approved of the specific proposal at a refer-
endum. The Scullin idea is to make this
section waste paper, do away with reform
of the Constitution by referendum and instal
the predominant Caucus, as the supreme
authority for the time being:—
That Parliament shall have full power to alter
the Constitution in the following manner: The
proposed law for the alteration thereof must, after
the lapse of one month from its origination in a
House of the Parliament, be passed by an absolute
majority of each House of the Parliament, and be
assented to by the Governor-General.
South Aus., Westralia and Tasmania are
now protected by the proviso that “no
alteration diminishing the. proportionate
representation of any State in either House
.... shall become law unless the majority
of the electors voting in that State approve.”
If this safeguard goes, what power on earth
will prevent dissatisfied States seceding? The
Scullidores won’t get the power they want
to scrap the Federal system, and it will be
a crime to spend £lOO,OOO on seeking it.
When Vic. Assembly gets thoroughly into
its stride next session Chief Secretary Tunne-
cliffe intends to submit a bill for the better
regulation of motor-car traffic. The coroner
has just reminded the Ministry that motor
vehicles were responsible for 189 deaths in
1929.
“Gad” : The “draft” on the last wool clip
amounted to £500,000. . The “draft” is a sort
of baksheesh that is given to the buyer by
the seller to the extent of 31b. at least on
every 3361 b. of wool. To the individual it
may not amount to very much, but is there
any reason why growers should continue to
be so generous when Australia needs every
penny it can scrape up?
In a thoughtful study of the position in
S. Aus., Cameron, the Cocky chief, points
out that the State owes nearly £100,000,000,
exclusive of the Commonwealth debt, and
that “our own assessment of all our lands
for taxation purposes is only £95,000,000 —•
equivalent to a mortgage of £5 10s. per acre
on the area more or less closely settled.
But such considerations don’t worry Labor-
leader Hill. That gentleman blithely pro-
mises “a vigorous policy of public works,
with compulsory repurchase of large estates,
reduction of taxes and freight rates and free
school books—all the old box of tricks.
S. Aus. Labor, he says, will secede from the
The No-Oof Bird.
Loan Council,
which cramps
its style; that
done, it will
“speed up the
Mypo n g a
scheme,” which
will “employ
a p proximately
1000 m e n”
and “reorgan-
ise the sewer-
age system”
(“there is
room for an-
other 600 men
in this depart-
ment”), and
do a lot of
other wonders
with money which nobody will lend. The
tragedy is that the man whose head has been
sticking in the sand has quite a good chance
of becoming Premier again.
“Jacko” : Wonderful is the way in which
mere boards expand into grandiose spending
departments with thousands on the staff. The
N.S.W. Main Roads Board is a case in
point. Last year its administrative expenses
amounted to just on £208,000, as against
£23,800 in 1925-26. During the same period
its expenditure on roads soared from
£1,562,800 to £4,014,100. And there have
been corresponding growths of arrogance and
red-tape. The board’s methods of doing busi-
ness are the despair of people who try to
get past the army of office-boys, attendants,
clerks, overseers, superintendents and inspec-
tors.
SINGLED OUT FOR DISTINCTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Dr. Page said that the only cure for the present
depression Labor Ministers could think of was to
appeal to one section of the community, the wheat-
growers, to work harder.”
What though the economic outlook drear is,
And Treasurers look grave and bankers
blue,
And Parliament is full of doleful queries
About the dismal pass we’re coming to,
Buck up, you stalwart devotees of Ceres,
You are the fellows who can pull us
through.
You’ve but to grow more wheat, that’s all
about it,
And we shall round the corner, devil doubt it!
Others may slower go and earn no chidings
In mine or mill or factory or shop,
Full speed ahead for you! And here are
tidings
That ought to set you tilling at your top:
Four bob a bushel’s waiting at the sidings,
My sturdy husbandmen, for all your
crop—
A generous incentive, wheresoever
You operate, to laudable endeavor.
Snap into it! How many open spaces,
Hillside and vale and undulating plain,
Await the gracious and glad embraces
Of Ceres, goddess of the golden grain!
Bethink, my pippins, what Australia faces,
Let not your stricken country ask in vain
That you should spring, good patriots to the
marrow,
As soldiers do to arms, to plough and harrow.
Let others hew less coal, or plant less cotton,
Or jib at sawing wood or killing meat.
Yours is a duty not to be forgotten
Or dodged; you’ve simply got to grow
more wheat.
What though the quid pro quo seems pretty
rotten,
And working overtime a doubtful treat,
The more of you that rally to the slogan
The better pleased will Scullin be —and
Hogan !
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SHADOW SHOWS.
The
STATE
THEATRES
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
THE LAST OF THE COAL STRIKERS.
The levy of 2s. 6d. per week is still being paid to the Northern miners by Southern and Western coalminers and by the miners of Broken Hill.
“And I said to ’em, my boy, ‘Why, damme, so long as you’ll work to keep me, I won’t do a hand’s turn for the brutal boss.’ And so they been keepin' me ever since.”
Pointed H'eels,” the Paramount all-talkie
it the State, suggests that the author meant
to tell the truth about his characters but
lost his nerve. It belongs to the vaudeville-
penniless-young-composer class of movie, but
the familiar theme is given a novel twist.
Robert _ Courtland, the theatrical magnate,
has designs on Lora Nixon, one of his show-
girls. William Powell —better known here
in high-class detective roles —play's Court-
land with the poker-faced suavity he used
to bring to the discovery of murderers. He
sends for Lora to begin his evil work, and
learns that she is leaving the show to marry
Don Ogden. In the words of the stage-
manager (Eugene Pallette, Powell’s offsider
in crook dramas) Lora is “off the list of
prahspects.”. The magnate takes it well,
the implication being that he does not share
his friend’s pessimism. Don tries to earn
money by composing the usual symphony.
However, Lora’s alcoholic brother and sister-
in-law hamper him by infesting the flat and
sneering at his music. They have nothing
in particular to do with the story, and have
been inserted evidently to give Helen Kane
(Dot), who is idolised in the U.S.A. as an
interpreter of drunk roles, and “Skeets”
Gallagher, whom Australia has seen, in “Fast
Company,” a chance to display their low-
comedy gifts. What with poverty, the awful
relations, and the fact that Don (Phillips
Holmes) is a soulful young prig, the mar-
riage fails. Don arranges to get a Paris
divorce, and Lora is taken over by Courtland.
At this stage Courtland ceases to be a
betrayer and becomes a heavy father. He
brings the young people together, and leaves
them in a strangulating embrace with a
paternal smile, explaining to the cynical
stage-manager that he has “seen a littul
thing called luv.” The acting is up to
the slick American standard, but Fay
Wray arouses no enthusiasm as Lora, the
irresponsible wife, and her futile and com-
plaisant husband is equally hard to bear.
The revue ballets ai-e in kinemacoloi’, and
they have the blurred outlines inseparable
from the process in its present stage of
development. Each of the emotional scenes
is cut off with a snap, a device which gives
the picture something of the restrained
quality of an O. Henry story.
John Gilbert talks for the first time from
a screen in “His Glorious Night” (Metro-
Goldwyn) at Sydney Regent.
The picture might have been built for
this spare, wasp-waisted, young mummer,
with his gleaming teeth and genius for wear-
ing uniforms. He has an admirable screen
voice, and no more than an agreeable sug-
gestion of a Yankee accent. He represents
Captain Kronacs, who is a sound cavalry
officer and the pride of his regiment as a
cross-country rider, but no winner as regards
birth. Because of his humble origin Pi-in-
cess Orsolini, with whom he has started a
love affair, is persuaded by her mother to
turn him down. She is to make no mis-
take about it, and “cut him to the heart.”
She does it even more thoroughly than she
had intended on hearing that he is not
Kronacs, but a masquerading criminal. The
play, which is full of good lines and situa-
tions, is largely a matter of his response
to her treatment. Her father and future
husband are due to arrive next day, and tbe
reputed crook is encouraged to escape in
order to save her name. Colonel Krehl,
superbly played by that sound German actor
Gustav von Seyffertitz, undertakes to get him
off the premises. But he refuses to go. He
demands another interview with the princess,
and in the course of it performs a tour do
force of sex mastery.
A notable feature of this charming and
witty show is that on Saturday night it held
a packed audience by its dialogue alone.
There is not a spectacular scene in it, bar-
ring a military race meeting, in which
Kronacs rides a winner over a crude steeple-
chase course. Less than six months ago
acceptable talkie dialogue was unimaginable
except in roaring productions of the “Speak-
easy” class. The voices rarely registered
anything between inaudible whispers and
CATHERINE DALE
OWEN in “His Glorious
Night.”
roars. Love-
making and
even colloquial
c o n v ersation
were made
ridiculous. In
the new
Regent talkie
the finest
shades of emo-
tion are ex-
pressed, and
the contrasting
voices of the
players stand
out as in life.
The acting is
above the high
standard of the
country which
is buying up
the world’s
best actors.
The theatrical
world seems
to have been
combed for
suitable per-
formers. and
a flawless picture of somewhere in Ruritania
results. Catherine Dale Owen is the kind
of girl every princess ought to be, aud her
mother (Nance O’Neil, whom Australia knew
in drama) and the husband-hunting Ameri-
can woman (Hedda Hopper) are splendid
light-comedy studies.
‘‘The Lost Zeppelin” (Cinema Art Films)
is the principal exhibit at Sydney State
Theatre. The plot is no more than a frame-
work on which to hang a thrilling succession
of mostly trick pictures. Just before the
Zeppelin starts for the South Pole Com-
mander Hall (played by Australia’s old
friend Conway Tearle) sees his wife in the
embrace of Lootenant Tom Armstrong, a
junior member of the expedition. The com-
mander is not disposed to make a fuss about
the matter. He is ready to call the kiss a
washout and set off for the Pole on amicable
terms with his subordinate, but his wife
won’t have it. How Miriam Hall got into
this adventure picture is a mystery. She
is a closely observed psychological study—
one of those maddening females who drama-
tise all their experiences. She is scandal-
ised and annoyed at the commander’s attempt
to brush aside her romance as negligible, and
embarrasses both men by crossing the t’s and
dotting the i’s in the matter of her devotion
to Tom. The Zeppelin crashes near the Pole,
and the commander and Tom plod off to-
gether to look for help. A ’plane finds them.
The ’plane can take only one. Which shall
it be? The commander, who had thought, at
first, of drawing lots, remembers that his
wife loves Tom. He discards the straws
which were to have settled the question, and
orders Tom to go.
There is a curious scene when she and the
lover meet again. She cross-examines him
hotly as to why her husband stayed behind.
Was it because he knew of their love? With
the supreme talent such women have for
putting men in false positions she insists
on an answer. The young man admits shame-
facedly that the commander stayed behind
because he realised the position. It is her
great moment.' She announces lyrically that
the only man she loves or ever has loved is
her husband! The radio starts. The hus-
band has been found. In a conventional
Palais Royal play she would immediately
revert to the lover, on the principle that
life’s most exciting pleasures are gained by
taking the line of most resistance. But
that would be too much for a talkie audience,
so the author makes her send the com-
mander a cable explaining the changed
position. Conway Tearle and Ricardo Cortez
(Tom) are suitably wooden. and sailorly,
and both have round, clear voices. Virginia
Valli gives an interesting performance as
the wife, and her articulation is exquisite.
She is the only actress this Showman has
encountered who makes the American lan-
guage sound beautiful..
The scenic and catastrophic effects are
magnificent. We see the Zeppelin leave its
mast. It reaches the tropics and a sen-
sational thunderstorm. It roars on south-
wards. Icefields appear, and another kind
of storm. The gale howls round the control-
room and rain and snow lash its windows.
The airship begins to lose height, and. is
hurled against a mountain of snow and ice.
Four-fifths of these scenes are presumably
fakes, but some of them (the tropical storm, for
example) are more awe-inspiring than reality.
The chief pull of “A Song of Kentucky,”
the Fox Movietone all-talkie at the Regent,
is its specially-written musical score. In the
silent films the death-music from “Bohfeme,”
or some other incongruous number, was
always liable to interpret a love scene in
a tropical garden; a convention which was
ruinous to unity. Much money has been
spent on music in recent talkies, but the
plots remain trite. “A Song of Kentucky”
exploits the two most popular plot-subjects
—the vaudeville and musical life which the
cinema is doing its best to kill, and the poor
but beautiful musician who is loved by a
rich girl. Jerry Reavis (Joe Wagstaff) is
a song-plugger. The Kentucky heiress, Lee
Coleman (Lois Moran), sees him from her
limousine while he is plugging on a dray,
and is affected in the customary manner.
Jerry rises to be a composer of note, and Lee
visits a theatre where he is performing with
her uncle, aunt and an unscrupulous man
about town who wants to marry her. Every-
one combines to separate them. A girl with
whom Jerry has acted in small-time vaude-
ville sells a cheque he has given her, in all
innocence, to Pitcairn, the man about town,
and Lee’s haughty southern relatives point
out that Jerry is not a gentleman. For
what it is worth, the objection is valid
enough. He is a long-haired, loose-mouthed,
toothy "young Hebrew whose terrific eyework
wrnuld be liable to get him assaulted outside
song-plugging circles. But it is the evidence
of the cheque that causes Lee to throw him
over and leave for Paris.
The plot goes completely loony hereabouts.
Lee comes back from France and enters her
horse Dixie in the Kentucky Derby. Pit-
cairn is at a party with her before the race.
In a manner which implies scorn and loath-
ing, she bets him that if Dixie loses she will
marry him. The racecourse is shown.
Jerry appears and plunges on Dixie. Rain
falls in torrents, and water lies inches deep
on the track. Jerry wanders about looking
agonised in drenched clothes. Dixie loses.
Lee buys a wedding dress, and Jerry retires
to New York, racked with misery, to write
a Jazz Rhapsody on the proceedings.
• A demon-
stration is
given in tlie
ensuing scenes
of the terrific
power o f
p h o tography-
CMm-sound as
a medium of
expression.
Jerry con-
ducts his
Rhapsody
while Lee list-
ens from a
box. The music
may be mean-
ingless, but
that is imma-
terial, as pic-
tures show
what it is sup-
posed to mean.
They also por-
tray Jerry’s
emotions and
LOIS MORAN in “A Song
of Kentucky.”
thoughts while playing, and the girl’s reac-
tions to them. As the photography is excellent,
the music tuneful and Miss Moran very win-
some, an altogether pleasing effect is obtained.
The wailing notes of the Rhapsody have
hardly died down when the girl who sold
the cheque rushes into the box and confounds
Pitcairn by revealing his perfidy.
“A Song of Kentucky” is refreshingly free
from “passion.” It is a boy-and-girl romance
with hardly a kiss in it. Lee, as played
by Lois Moran, is an interesting reversion
to type—a sweet, chuckle-head°d melodrama
heroine of the pre-movie era, in ultra-smart
modern clothes.


“its a GENERAL MOTORS car ”
Whenever and wherever there appears a press
announcement on behalf of Chevrolet, Pontiac,
Oldsmobile, Marquette, Oakland, Buick, Uauxhall,
La Salle or Cadillac cars, the above line appears.
Its purpose is to clearly identify the product of a great
Australian industry, and to remind the reading public of
the many advantages which this association implies.
Why your choice
of a General Motors car
spells progress . .
. . . . . personal
and national . . .
BL’
n
3
%■
unde
ntt
X>
n«R
-s>
o>
*S
**\
"S
SO^
f\
«*N
<A
•V
/
*N
-N
S*
/
fff
yr
#i;
ffl
every hand to-day we hear
voiced the need for these
things. ~
The establishment and advancement
of secondary industries .
The development of dependable ,
economical transportation.
It is recognised by all Australians
that both spell progress —for the
nation and for the individual.
Hence it is extremely gratifying
to General Motors (Australia) Pty.
Ltd. to feel that in their Australian
operation they are furthering both
these desires in a substantial way.
The industry in its five State
plants provides wages of six hundred
thousand pounds per annum for its
own employees.
By its mammoth purchases from
Australian manufacturers, it in-
directly supports sixteen thousand
Australian artisans.
The organised sales and service
plan behind its products supports a
vast dealer organisation throughout
Australia.
As the industry advances it brings
new progress to those industries and
individuals it supports; and —as
increased production creates new
manufacturing economies—there is
brought to buyers of General Motors
cars an ever increasing measure of
fine craftsmanship, of added value
and service after sale.
In the three years which have
passed since the establishment of
General Motors (Australia) Pty.
Ltd., the popularity of its products
has risen enormously with Aus-
tralia’s motorists.
The result is reflected in the
finer craftsmanship and added values
seen in General Motors cars to-day.
J
■mTw u£z
CHEVROLET - PONTIAC - OLDSMOBILE
OAKLAND - BUICK - VAUXHALL - LA SALLE
also CHEVROLET TRUCKS, PONTIAC EXPRESS DELIVERIES, GENERAL
MARQUETTE,
CADILLAC
MOTORS TRUCKS
0
3
GENERAL MOTORS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
BRISBANE SYDNEY _ MELBOURNE _ ADELAIDE PERTH


I
WATER FILTRATION
For manufacturing purposes clear water is
essential. The “SWIRL” FILTER gives
a large output and is specially suitable for
Ice Works, Butter Factories, Laundries, etc.
Also Sole Manufacturers of the well-known
“Abbot” Germ-proof Filters, pressure or
crockery, for household use, Cordial
Factories, etc.
Catalogues on Application.
Guthridge Limited
Sole Manufacturers
10-12 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY
luuiPgEE *— l
w iVSSKg»
?■■ •■*» - .a*
•' mm
I
X
HI
mr
“M ANGROVITE”
Waterproof Leather or
Raw-hide Belting
Records of service established by Mangrovite
Belting are convincing proofs of the efficiency
of this all-Australian product. Engineers
all over Australia have proved that it pays
to instal Mangrovite Belting. Backed by
expert service. Consult our engineers with-
out obligation.
Mangrovite Belting, Ltd.,
Charles Ludowici, Managing Director.
49 YORK STREET (Wynyard Square),
SYDNEY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Tom Roberts, who touched 74 the other
day, still paints. A recent work was a
portrait of poet Kendall, commissioned by
the Federal Government for Canberra. The
artist lives in the beautiful Dandenongs, near
Melbourne.
It is regarded as unlikely that Canberra
will see anything of J. Mathews, M.H.R.
for Melbourne Ports, this session. For years
he has determinedly struggled up from Mel-
bourne, despite his failing health, to be on
hand if wanted, but even this effort is getting
too much for him. Mathews has held the
seat since 1906.
Lieut.-General Chauvel, Inspector-General
of the military forces, retires next month.
General CHAUVEL.
Yet at 65 this
spare, hard-bitten
soldier is still thor-
oughly capable of
doing his job. Born
in N. S. Wales of
Queensland squat-
ting stock, he
joined the N.S.W.
Cavalry Regiment
in 4886, went to
the S’African War
as a major, and
later did brilliantly
as C.O. of a mounted
infantry battalion.
But it was in the
Sinai campaign
that he revealed
himself as not
merely the greatest
cavalry leader Aus-
tralia has pr o-
duced but, pro-
bably, the greatest
of his day. He lias
struggled desperate-
ly since the Armis-
tice against the
tendency of succes-
s i v e Australian
Governments t o
hamstring land de-
fence, and lie
leaves the army
with the embitter-
ing knowledge that
the politicians have
virtually smashed
it. A splendid
fighting soldier, an
administrator of the first order and a
“straight bloke.”
N.S.W. Legislative Council is not the
retiring place for defeated or tired politicians
it once was. Of its 93 members only seven
have been “something” in the Legislative
Assembly. Carruthers and Waddell were
Premiers; James Ashton, Minister for
Lands; George Black, Chief Secretary; W.
T. Dick, Hon. Minister; Simon Hickey,
Speaker; and B. B. O’Conor, Minister for
Education.
“Biltong”: Senator Colebatcli completed an
epitome of travel when he ’planed from
Southern Cross to Coolgardie on a trans-
continental flight the other day. 1° ?iy
knowledge he has now covered that -mo-
mile stretch in eight different ways In t e
early goldfields days he tramped it, pushed
a bike over it and lolloped it on a came ,
later he did the trip in a backboard, a
coach, a train and an automobile. When
he walked it took him eight days ; the plane
did it in one hour five minutes.
The old shop
i n H unte r-
street, Sydney,
whe r e Henry
Parkes made
toys between 80
and 90 years
ago was demol-
ished last week,
and pedestrians
halted ever and
again on the
opposite pave-
ment to take a
mild interest in
the proceedings,
especially when
the demolishes
approached the
tablet recording
the date (1847-
52) of the
future states-
man’s tenancy
of the premises.
Possibly some
of them won-
dered what sort
of toys a man
turned out who
wrote such
shockingly bad
verses, or how a
Premier could
control the
affairs of a
R. C. TREDWELL, the
new Consul-General for
the U.S.A.
country with distinction when he almost
invariably made such a muddle of his own.
Another of the “commended” in The
Bulletin’s First Novel Competition has
been accepted by a book-publisher. Arthur
Grooom’s “Merry Christmas!” having had
its run as a Bulletin serial, will be put
between covers by Mills and Boon for the
London autumn book-publishing season.
Groom is a young Australian who jackerooed
in North Queensland, where the .story is
pitched, and afterwards managed a run
there for his father. Father, by the way,
was Stanley Bruce’s predecessor as M.H.R.
for Flinders (Vic.). “Merry Christmas!”
makes the eighth competition story either
published in London or accepted for publica-
tion there.
Colonel Cradock, just dead in the Cold
Country, commanded the second M.L. con-
tingent in the Boer War. He was a brother
of the admiral who went down with his flag-
ship at Coronel in Nov., 1914. The Colonel
was 70 when the last call sounded ; prior to
going to M.L. he had a long career in the
British Army. He was not too old to do his
bit during the European set-to. For 27 years
he was a director of the Metropolitan-Vickers
Co. and its predecessor, the British Westing-
house Co.
“Coaldust”: The late John Brown may
have represented the typical wealthy colliery
proprietor to the man in the street, but I
have heard many old miners assert that had
he remained at the helm of Northern
Collieries’ Association (he vacated the
chairmanship in 1919 and thereafter never
attended a meeting personally) the present
deadlock would never have arisen. “Old
John” was always opposed to the fatal
policy of “Increase wages, advance sell-
ing price, and to H'ell with the public!”
Prior to one increase in price he wirelessed
from a homeward-bound liner, “On no
account will I agree to an increase.” But
the game went on till the inevitable end
came.
Alex. Peacock will complete 41 years’ con-
tinuous service in Vic. Assembly on March
28. He has been in 14 Governments, and
was head of three of them.
William Maiden, King of Menindie, fell
sick in Adelaide a few weeks ago and
begged to be taken back to the banks of the
Darling to die. This fine little wisp of wire
and whipcord got on to the Lower Darling
so long ago that he could remember Burke
and Wills making a depot at Menindie;
and he was Paddy Green’s partner in send-
ing away the first load of ore that was ever
drawn out of the Barrier. It came from
what was afterwards the Pioneer mine at
Thackaringa, was hauled across to Menindie
70 miles by bullock team and punted down
the Darling. But it never reached market —
it sank somewhere or other.
“ Jeames’s” memory :
Viscount Gladstone, who died lately, did only
one thing that really stirred the popular imagina-
tion in his 76 years of life. He was a neat-figured,
mild-eyed little man with a bushy moustache, a
blameless character and unlimited industry, but
little magnetism or brains, who had been in retire-
ment since the war. Ilis chance came in 1926 when
Captain Peter Wright produced a book of memoirs
in which rumors that had been current about the
G.O.M.’s morals were given form and substance.
The head of the family (who had been waiting
for the chance for years) sprang at the defamer
like a tiger. As a beginning, Wright was illegally
expelled from the Bath Club, which Lord Gladstone
had helped to found. The Viscount also libelled
Wright—a method previously used by Lord Queens-
berry to get Oscar Wilde under cross-examination
in court. I saw the trial, and it was impossible to
avoid admiring Wright. He is a pallid, monocled young
man, with plenty of brains and an acrid wit. He
stood up to a bitter cross-examination and a hostile
Judge with debonair calm, and always gave as good
as he got. The body of the court resembled an
octogenarians’ home. Augustine Birrell, T. P.
O’Connor, Lord Phillimore and many more old
friends of the G.O.M. were there every day register-
ing hatred and scorn of the plaintiff. It killed
Wright as a publicist in England, and, though a
fairly rich man, the costs nearly ruined him,
An old-timer for whom the Jubilee Number
of The Bulletin had a special interest was
John Walton, of Granville, Sydney. When
the first issue appeared he was running a
book and newspaper stall at Redfern railway
•station, then the terminus of the Ma State’s
railway system, and he still recalls that the
500 copies he ordered sold like hot cakes.
His enthusiasm for the new venture earned
him a paragraph and a woodcut of his busi-
ness in one of the early issues. Walton,
now 81, came from England in the ’sixties.
He began by selling books from house to
house, drove a waggonette loaded with Bibles
and temperance literature through the Back-
blocks for the old N.S.W. Bush Mission
Society, and later became traveller for 'a
Parramatta firm. To voice his congratu-
lations the veteran climbed the Bulletin
stairs with the vigor of a man half his age.
Queanbeyan (N.S.W.) lost its second non-
agenarian within a few months—John Gale
was the first —when Archibald McKechnie
passed out at 93. He came from Scotland
at 18 and settled in what is now the Federal
Capital Territory. Later he acquired Wells
station, a well-known holding, which the
Commonwealth took over 15 years ago,
“Jeames”: The Earl of Coventry, who
died last week, aged 92, put up a number
of records. He held his earldom longer than
any other man in history, having succeeded
to it at the age of five. H'e had seen every
Derby barring the last, and one other, since
his twentieth birthday. He hunted regularly
till he was 85, chiefly with the Buckhounds,
which run about Ascot. He had been Father
of the Lords for many years, and was proud
of the fact that he had never voted or spoken
against a Tory measure in his life. And
he was the only Earl with a daughter mar-
ried to an Indian.
ROBERT BARR, Chair-
man of the Vic. Licenses
Reduction Board, who
has done more for tem-
perance in Vic. than all
the Dry orators put
together.
Crossed the
dark water to
Reinga the other
day, in her
100th year,
Rahui Te
Kiri, daugh-
ter of a big
Maori chief.
She owned
a great deal of
land in the
Auckland di s-
trict, but, as
punishment for
haying been a
rebel . sympa-
thiser in the
Maori wars,
much of her
domain was
taken from her,
including Little
Barrier Island.
But the Govern-
ment of the
period couldn’t
keep her off the
island. Twice
she landed by
boat and once
swam the whole
24 miles from
the mainland.
Soldiers were
sent in the Gov-
ernment steamer
Hinemoa to re-
move her. Fin-
ally a sort of
treaty was
patched up.
Rahui was
blind and bed-
ridden for 10
years before her
death, but her
fame as a swimmer and a chieftainess will
live long in Maori story.
Olit, W. J. Carre Riddell, second chairman
of the Melbourne Metropolitan Board of
Works; he retired three years ago after
20 years’ service. He was a solicitor and a
partner of Agar Wynne before becoming a
civil servant. Riddell was a golfer of more
than ordinary distinction, Vic. champion for
several years early in the century and chair-
man of Vic. Golf Association ; and long before
that he was a rattling tenuis player. Gis-
borne, with which he had family associations,
furnished him with a grave. .He was a
bachelor.
The pioneer
of trade union-
ism in Maori-
-land, Arthur
iCollins, having
reached the age
of 80, has just
retired from his
job as organ-
iser of the Wel-
lington Trades
and Labor
Council. Born
within sight of
Windsor Castle,
he emigrated at
20 and followed
his trade as a
baker. In 1878
he founded the
Bread Bakers’
Union, the first
in the Dominion,
and the first to
register wh e n
the Arbitration
Act was passed,
20 years later.
For years he
was a member
of the Welling-
ton Conciliation
Board and
helped to settle
hundreds of in-
dustrial dis-
putes. He
doesn’t like
strikes, and
reckons arbitra-
Senator PEARCE,
apparently the one man
in Australia who doesn’t
believe that the present
embarrassment is due to
over-borrowing.
tion the best thing that ever happened for
working folk.
U.S. ex-Presidents seldom number more,
than two or three; William Howard Taft’s
decease leaves Coolidge the only one on deck.
Taft was the only President who ever became
Chief Justice of the Supreme Court —there
was an interval of eight years between the
two jobs. As against this distinction, by
seeking a second Presidential term against
the will and ambitions of Roosevelt, who
had assisted him into office, he was largely
responsible for the split of 1913 that gave
the Democrats eight years of power.
Physically, Taft was the weightiest President
on record; he scaled 22 stone during his
occupancy of the White House.
Norbert Keenan, K.C., who was Mayor of
Kalgoorlie at the beginning of the century
and represented the town for two terms in
the Assembly, where he soon rose to be
Attorney-General, is having another cut at
a Parliamentary seat after devoting himself
to a lucrative practice for 19 years. During
his mayoral days he once wound up a con-
troversy with an opponent by stigmatising
the latter’s remarks as “the sort of thing one'
would expect of a costermonger whose dinner
had disagreed with him”—-a figure of speech
that hugely delighted the community. It
was during the same period that John Norton
arrived on the goldfields, and, in pursuance
of his obsession that his views on public
topics were full of interest for every part of
Australia, asked the Mayor to take the chair
for him at a public meeting. Keenan flatly
refused, remarking that his public position
didn’t place his services at the disposal of
every man of indifferent character who hap-
pened along, and left the aggrieved John to
turn his batteries of objurgation in a new
direction. Since he retired from Parliament,
the K.C. has made several trips to England
to argue cases before the Privy Council.
James Quinn, whose portrait of the
Duke of Connaught was unveiled last week
and who is starting shortly on one of the
Duchess of York, has none of the graces
of a society painter. He is the same small,
stocky, curly-haired, carelessly-dressed and
brusque character he was when he went
abroad on a Melbourne Gallery scholarship
35 years ago. His portrait of the Prince
is said to be regarded at Buckingham Palace
as the best that lias been done. Apart from
royalties and military men, Quinn’s most
lucrative subjects are Japanese. He has
painted more wealthy visitors from Nippon
than any artist in London.
J. T. Barnes, whose job of Deputy-Director
of Migration at Australia House has dis-
appeared, announces that he will return to
Australia with a view to entering public
life. Which recalls that Gullett, M.H.R.,
made a similar resolve when he threw up the
directorship of the Australian Immigration
Bureau. More, he carried it out, and was
presently able as a Minister to look down
from the Treasury Bench on Billy Hughes,
private member, who had tried to bully him
when he was a civil servant. Barnes offered
to continue at Australia House in an hon-
orary advisory capacity, but the Scullidores
weren’t taking any.
THE GOOD YOUNG ME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Good Young Me that once I was
Still haunts me in these latter days;
I can’t escape from him, because
My friends delight his wraith to raise.
They greet me oft-times, here and there,
These grey old friends who past years scan,
With “What a model boy you were!”
Or “What an excellent young man!”
Tis nice to hear them tell me so
Who since o’er dustier tracks have flung
A wayward course; ’tis sweet, although
The Good Young Me died very young.
Some (like our wives) our failings know—
Old Adam’s sins since life began—
Nor hesitate to tell us so ;
They’d scoff about that Good Young Man !
Others with us make careless jest
On merry sins a glad hour brings ;
But those who knew us at our best
Would not believe we did such things.
While some may grin and others scold,
It is a change from censure’s tongue
To find some still in mem’ry hold
The Good Young Me who died so young!
Sometimes a slight reproach may touch
My heart for disappointed hopes
Of friends expecting far too much
In days before I jumped the ropes.
I wonder what they did expect
Who watched my growing as a lad?
A whiskered saint with halo decked,
Perchance was one vain dream they had !
But there are moments, truth to tell,
I stand a while, with shamed head hung,
Beside his shrine they keep so well —
The Good Young Me who died so young !
N.S.W.
HAROLD MERCER.


GREAT TRUTHS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Crime is much older than organised prevention.”
x—“S. M. Herald” leader 10/3/’3O.
I think that proposition reads
Safe, solid, sound and proper;
I quite agree the crook precedes
And ante-dates the copper.
What’s more, I venture there’s a case
To satisfy logicians
That maladies attacked our race
Before there were physicians.
I think that rats and mice by scores
Man’s habitats frequented
Before the crudest Figure Fours
To trap them were invented ;
I think that trout swam to and fro
And boars in brakes lay grunting
Before our ancestors could go
A-fishing or a-hunting.
I think that dirt’s an older thing
Than any soap that washes;
I think it needed rain to bring
Umbrellas and goloshes;
I think that there were songs and plays
And statuettes and verses
Ere critics came to murmur praise
Or thunder scornful curses.
I think a being must be born
Before through life he lumbers,
And die before the shroud is worn
For everlasting slumbers.
I think, where rises faction’s roar,
It’s quite a safe admission,
You’ll want a Government before
You have an Opposition.
I think, ere work for wage began,
There had to be employers;
I think torpedo-boats foreran
Torpedo-boat destroyers;
I think no debt was ever paid
Unless you’d come to owe it
(I thing this gambit’s cribbed from Praed,
Or, to be frank, I know it).
I think the era of the nude
Preceded skirts and trousers;
I think the pinkie Noah brewed
Was older, far. than wowsers.
I think my little say I’ve said
And now no more I’ll trouble you—
Save to remark that A’s ahead,
The alphabet’s whole length, of Z,
And Y comes after W.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Kerys” : When our boarding-house humor-
st locked the bathroom door he discovered
hat Mrs. Hashmagandy’s cat, a friendly
mimal, had followed him in, and decided to
lave a little amusement at her expense. The
shower is one of those old-fashioned arrange-
ments that deluge the whole enclosure from
a perforated tank overhead. The first inkling
puss had that she was the victim of a joke
was the descent of a fierce cascade. She
a-ave one bound of astonishment, and the
NIL DESPERANDUM.
“I suppose you boys have a girl in every port?"
“Good Lord, no! We haven’t had time to go to half of them yet!"
next moment a repentant humorist was fran-
tically trying to beat the terrified tabby from
his bare skin. The cat clutched and climbed,
and before our comic friend could subdue her
sufficiently to reach the tap she had clawed
him extensively. Half a week off from work
and a resolution to omit the cat from prac-
tical jokes were the finish of the incident.
jj. % V
“Sol M.”: A cablegram reports that “Dr.
Cook who once made a baseless claim to
have’reached the North Pole, and was later
imprisoned for fraud, has been released on
mrole ” It was an oil wild cat which got
Cook into durance. Before the Polar fiasco,
he was medical officer on a ship which spent
a dreadful winter in the ice down south.
Amundsen, who was one of the expedition,
described Cook as a hero. The historic con-
troversy began in 1909, when Cook arrived at
Lerwick, in the farthest north of Scotland,
with the Pole allegedly in lus pocket. Live
days later Peary arrived m Labrador, with
the Pole allegedly 1 in his pocket. Cook s tale
was that he arrived at the extreme north with
two Eskimo, as his humble little expedition
didn’t run to white scientists. The two
Eskimo were produced, but these untutored
sons of ice naturally didn’t know whether
the undesirable allotment where they stopped
was a Pole or a clothes prop. Peary’s tale
was that he arrived at the Pole with one
nigger and four Eskimo. His large and
affluent outfit had a good supply of capable
white men, but Peary deliberately left them
behind. His time, from the place where he
■waved good-bye to his last competent white
witness to the alleged Pole and back, was
so amazingly swift that a blanket of doubt
has hung over the “discovery” ever since.
Cook took his alleged Pole to Europe, and
submitted his evidence to a Danish Uni-
versity, by which it was declared unsatis-
factory. Peary took his rival Pole to his
own country, where his naval colleagues and
ex-President Roosevelt rallied round him with
enthusiasm. Amundsen settled the question
by leaving Spitzbergen with accomplices m
an airship, and turning up in Alaska on the
other side. He was thus the first white man
at the South Pole as a matter of certainty,
and the first at the North Pole as a matter
of argument.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Balzac’s story of the wronged
husband who had Lothario walled up in
his hiding-place is recalled by an elaborate
attempt to conceal stolen goods in Mel-
bourne. In order to make a cache for the
sedan body of a car, the thief removed the
wall of his house, placed the body in a
bedroom and then bricked it up again.
* * * *
“C. Cafeteria”: Pity the ingenuity of the
pro- and anti-liquor propagandists in Vic.
isn’t used to wipe out the National Debt.
Devices for ramming Yes or No into the
brains of the multitude have ranged from
aeroplanes sending out smoke signals to labels
gummed on milk-bottles. One party incurred
odium by landing an agreement with a muni-
cipality for attaching posters on dustbins.
The Noes hired a man measuring nearly
seven feet, plastered him with negatives, and
set him to walk the streets. The Yeas there-
upon engaged a short individual and deco-
rated him with their appropriate mono-
syllable. One hot day the pair met, gravely
shook hands and adjourned to a pub. It
is presumed the Yes man ordered ginger ale.
But perhaps the quaintest example was re-
ported from a country town. A strayed
white horse had been arrested by a ranger,
and was being trucked to the nearest pouno.
When the official’s back was turned some-
body painted “Vote No” on the creature s
hide in indelible stain. The galling part of
it was that the ranger was a fervent Dry.
jj. * ❖ ❖
“P.X.” : Some men have no luck. A couple
pinched a Sydney surgeon’s car the other day
while he was delivering a lecture, and when he
came out he found a hiatus where a run-
about should have been. Promptly he got on
to the police, one of whom at an outer subur-
ban station had seen the car making west
in a cloud of dust. There was no car at the
station to pursue it, but the ambulance had
just been ’phoned for, and he jumped aboard
to get a lift. It landed the Law on top ot
two young men in bandages and a car which
ought to have been in splints —the road
accident to which the ambulance had beer)
summoned by a passing driver. The wreck
was the car that had been pinched, and two
young men in first-aid bandages were the ones
he was after.
* * * *
“Centurion”: Wonderful how these war
secrets leak out. One General Spears has
been telling London that early in the war
French and German airmen rained down
steel arrows, hut gave up the practice
“because of the terrible nature of the
wounds.” The mysterious missiles were
going strong as late as 1916, for the Anzac
Mounted Division were treated to a few
showers of them in July of that year. They
were about 9in. long and half an inch in
diameter, with a concentric fluting to keep
them upright in the air, and were flung out
of a special box with a rotary motion, falling
in a cone. The first lot hit a hard patch
of sand near Romani railhead. Before long
the flat was thickly sown with them, and
hundreds were souvenired. There were
several visitations, but I never heard of any
casualties.
* 4= =l= *
“Ostrich” : The Queen Victoria Market in
Melbourne boasts many masters of the art
of sleeping under difficulties. Growers start
to arrive about ten o’clock on the night
preceding a market, and camp beside their
loads till the morning. Many sleep in the
gutter, as there it is impossible to roll out
of bed. With one chaffbag underneath and
another on top they slumber unconcernedly,
though boots are tramping within a foot of
their heads and uproar is going on all
around them. Others prefer tailboards, sling
hammocks under the waggon, or burrow
amongst cabbages and potatoes. Business
does not start officially till the lights go up
at 4 a.m., but the Chinaman who has ordered
WRONG CARD.
THRILLED F;APPER: “I suppose you feel like a king when you are in the air?”
BORED AVIATOR: “No. Ace!”
a special consignment will drag the grower
out at any hour. Motor transport has been
a blessing in this respect. If a man strikes
a good market he may be home again by
eight o’clock; previously, each market meant
a day lost.
* * * *
“L.F.M.” : All is not quiet on the hashery
front in William-street, Sydney. During the
last few months there has been an energetic
offensive on the part of Steakadeggopulos,
and for two blocks almost every second shop
is a restaurant. Prices —like the steak -
have been cut fine, and range from ninepence
to a bob for a meal of sorts. One establish-
ment displays the following legend: “Three
coarses mele. Roste chikin, sukine piglet,
custered and blue mange.”
* * * *
“X.S.” : The most persistent landlord-and-
tenant case on record is one that crops up
weekly in the Carlton (Vic.) Court. It
concerns a local cinema theatre. As the
showman is on weekly terms, the owners are
under the necessity of bringing fresh pro-
ceedings every time he falls behind. Up to
date, they have won 28 separate suits for
their 20 quid.
:|: ❖ *
“E.E.”: The old-age pensioner who pot-
ters about a large garden at Darling Point
(Sydney) was making small packets of milk
thistles. Seeing the curiosity in my face, he
told me that they fetched a penny and two-
pence apiece from King’s Cross flat-dwellers
for their caged birds. He indicated a
small plot of land behind a hibiscus hedge.
“There’s my crop,” he said ; “the boss lets me
grow thistles there as long as I don’t let the
seed dry.” I suggested that lettuce leaves
might be more easily procurable, but he only
snorted. “Nothin’ like milk thistles for
caged birds,” he declared. He went off
with his load of green seed-heads while I
reflected on the new industry.
“Bad Australian”: The Darwin-Brisbane
“air” mail does a good bit of its travelling
in the good old way. During the dry season
(April to November) it is scheduled to leave
Darwin for Daly Waters per rail at 8 a.m.
on Wednesday. On the Friday it lights out
per motor-waggon for Camooweal, and there
it is transferred to the ’plane, which departs
for Brisbane on Saturday morning and com-
pletes the journey on Monday. In the wet
season the itinerary is somewhat different,
the mail leaves Darwin at 8 a.m. for Birdum,
where, all being well on the following Mon-
day, it is transferred to packhorses and
shoo-ed along to Daly Waters. Weather and
other circumstances permitting, it arrives at
that interesting spot early on I mday, t°
depart per ’plane for Camooweal, which is
reached on the same day. Leaving Camoo-
weal on Saturday, it is delivered m Brisbane
on the Monday. The north-bound mail is
handled on similar lines.
* * * *
“Tuart” : Considering her numbers and the
amount of money she handles, Phyllis the
clerk is a refreshingly upright young person
I don’t think there is a case on record ot
her having taken the boss’s money out to
the races in the hope of making up a shore
age. Now and then, it may be, she is saved
from unpleasant consequences by the chivalry
of the male for the female, or 1 by the male s
horror of figuring in the picture-papers as
an oppressor of beauty, all women under
45 being beautiful to these rags; but I
prefer to believe that things are what they
seem, and that she adds fundamental honesty
to her other virtues. A Brisbane young
woman is probably the first Australian mem-
ber of the sisterhood to get 12 months for
theft. Head clerk to a cash-order concern,
with control of all the takings, she pinched
£921 in six months, spending it, as she con-
fessed, on “car hire, dresses and having a
good time generally.” The jury, influenced
by the fact that her salary was only £3 os.
a week, recommended her to mercy, but the
Judge said he couldn’t give her the benefit
of the First Offenders Act, though if resti-
tution were made he would suspend the
sentence.
* * * *
“Shikari” : “Ghillie Callum” may brag as
much as he likes about red-deer shooting m
M.L. (B, 19/2/’3O), but N.S.W. can offer
an even more unique sport to aspiring tour-
ists. This is rat-shooting by night, which
is attracting numerous sportsmen to Strath-
field, an outlying suburb of Sydney. Strath-
field proudly boasts that there is not
a pub within its boundaries. There is, how-
ever, an extensive rubbish-tip, and on this
the rats batten like industrial leaders on a
coal strike. The stalkers proceed to the
scene in motor-cars and turn their headlights
on the mountain slopes of rubbish. The
dazzled rats are immobilised, and may be
potted with pea-rifles at the convenience of
the hardy hq'nters. A report of the attrac-
tion is being forwarded to the State Tourist
Bureau, it being felt that it will offer a
pleasant change from stereotyped cave and
mountain scenery, besides catering for big-
game hunters.
;{- * ❖ *
“Runa” : The tram was crawling up Liver-
pool-street, Sydney, and as we passed the
huge heap of debris piled at the southern
end of Hyde Park by the railway excavations
the little man beside me, evidently a Scot-
tish migrant, leaned over and asked the
Digger opposite what the mound represented.
“They call it ‘Mt. Stokes,’ the Digger cour-
teously replied; “but it’s one of our Aus-
tralian anthills.” The Scot turned to his
wife. “Do ye hear that, Jean?” he said.
“I mind the mon I met on the feery telt
me the ants here were the size o’ rats.”
* * * *
“K.W.” : Having had access to the archives
of the A.M.8., I find that the following
instructions are issued to hospital matrons:
(1) Never provide fresh fruit or wholemeal bread
or products for patients. Otherwise you will check
the progress of rickets, scurvy, beri-beri, etc., all
necessary accompaniments of hospital life.
(2) Never have windows, fanlights or ward-doors
open. Fresh air is liable to produce deplorable
results in patients. They may even cease to be
patients.
(3) Always arrange the lighting so that the glare
shines directly in the eyes of each patient. An
oculist may send you a patient some day, and one
good turn deserves another.
(4) Never allow sawdust, kerosene or other dust-
layers to be sprinkled on floors before sweeping.
Patients need diversion, and in any case kerosene
and sawdust are expensive and a trouble to use.
(5) Always have large mats about the floor to
collect dust, and when they are swept encourage
your staff to fling them on the floor. This is
invigorating.
(6) Patients must be awakened at 4.30 for
morning tea, whether they want it or not. Any
sleep after that hour is harmful to sick people.
Also the daily sponge must be given before the
first streak of dawn; otherwise the patients will not
be ready for the doctor’s visit at 11 a.m. or for
their afternoon visitors.
(7) Nurses must be encouraged to walk with a
firm step, and to talk in high voices about their
gentlemen friends. This prevents patients from
having lethargic lapses.
(8) Insist on your nurses doing 12 hours’ work
at a stretch ; never allow them to sit, rest or sleep
during this period. A tired nurse is an efficient
nurse.
(9) Remember, finally, that the main object of
a hospital is to house patients, and the surest
patient is the one you’ve got. Wherefore the suc-
cessful matron is the one who can persuade her
patients that just one week longer in hospital is
essential.


“609 ’: Makempay lives on a sub-main
road between Melbourne and the Dande-
nongs. Opposite his gate the metal ends, and
the road is apt to become ,a quagmire in
winter, as many a week-ending motorist has
found to his cost. When they are seen to be
in difficulties Makempay strolls up with a
shovel and offers his help, which is gratefully
accepted. Presently he remarks, “I’ll get a
few bags, they’ll only cost you sixpence
each.” After the motor has beon-restarted,
and Makempay reimbursed for his services,
he may be. seen collecting his bags and wash-
ing them in readiness for the next job. He
did a brisk business last winter, and it was
alleged in the neighborhood that when the
road showed signs of drying up he would cart
water from a near-by creek to recondition
the bogholes.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket” : On one of those insuf-
ferably hot days discomfort fell so heavily
upon a Sydney business man of blameless
reputation that he discarded portion of his
raiment, item by item. He is a martyr to
pnckly-heat. At length, goaded past endur-
ance, he locked, his door and shed boots and
trousers, carrying on then in comparative
comfort. All might have been well had not
a clerk knocked him up to inquire for a
document. Leaving the door just off the
latch, Podgers turned to get the paper; at
that moment the clerk was called away, and
two lady clients swept to the doorway.
Document in hand, Podgers discovered the
danger as the door was opening; the ladies
disregarded his command of “Don’t come in !”
and he dived for his office chair. There he
sat in a huddled position, his bare extremi-
ties hidden under the desk, listening in agony
to the unsuspecting and voluble females.
Presently one of them, who had . been making
notes, dropped her pencil and paper. “Don’t
trouble to pick them up !” the agitated Pod-
gers implored. “I’ll call a clerk.” “Non-
THEORY—AND PRACTICE.
JANEe (who has married a grocer) : “My husband always says there isn’t much difference
between genius and insanity.”
JOAN (who has married a poet): “Oh, yes there is. The lunatic is sure of board and
lodging.”
sense!” the lady replied, and proceeded to
stoop again. “Madam,” Podgers yelped, “I
am not wearing trousers !” The scene closed
with two spinsters in startled flight.
sfc ❖ sfc
“Leamington”: Joe is a jeweller’s assist-
ant, and as such helps to guide optimistic
young folk in their choice of engagement-
rings. He thought he had learned most of
their idiosyncrasies, but he was scarcely pre-
pared for the youth who suddenly detached
himself from his lady on entering the shop
and whispered hoarsely, “For Gawd’s sake,
tell ’r I bought it ’ere !” The young man
had no time to say more. Throwing an
ancient, dirt-clogged ring on the counter,
the lady truculently demanded to know if
she could change it. Joe picked up the bat-
tered emblem. The piteous eyes of the young
fellow almost persuaded him, but professional
pride and circumstances won. “Sorry, said
Joe; “we never sold you this ring.’ The
young woman turned fiercely on her escort
“Bought it ’ere, didn’t yer?” “Course I did,
replied the flustered young man. “Bought
it last Thursday.” The lady picked up the
shoddy token of felicity and poked it under
Joe’s nose. “Did you sell ’im this trash or
didn’t yer?” she demanded. And “Did it
cost ’im twenny-three pound?” At this
her gentleman friend gasped and sank to
a chair with his hand to his chest. ‘I m
crook!” he moaned. “I feel ’orribly sick!'
He certainly looked ill, but as the lady’s
withering glance fell upon him he jumped up.
“It's me ’eart, I think.” he wheezed. “I’ll
go and git some brandy” ; and in a twinkling
he was gone.
* * * *
“Ex-dig”: The owner of Ploegsteert,
known during the war as “Plug-street” (not
far away were “Piccadilly Circus” and
“Hyde Park Corner”), has earned unsavory
notoriety by insisting on the removal of the
small cemetery that was there; it included
the graves of 128 Australians and 85 Maori-
landers. The original village was merely a
nest of cottages attached to this soulless
creature’s estate; until the Messines Ridge
was captured it w T as a much-fought-over area.
In 1918 there was a finger-post in the neigh-
borhood on which some enthusiastic Tommy
had nailed the sign “To Berlin, 1916.” Under
this a cynic had added a rearward pointer,
“To Blighty, 1917.” Then came an Aussie
touch—a finger pointed downward with the
information, “To Hell, 1918.”
* * * *
“Dux”: Timi was almost a daily cus-
tomer at the chemist’s for a baby’s soother.
“Your kid gets through a lot of these things,”
the pill-puncher said. “If not te piccaninny,"
Timi explained; “it te dog. Efery day te
dog run under te whare wit’ te ‘dummy.’
Sometimes we get him back. That orriglit.
But sometimes we can’t find him. Then we
buy te other one, isn’t it?”
* * * *
“Meteren”: Digger ghost stories (B.
12/3/’3O) ? Our unit reported one. We were
camping in a Flemish billet whose barns
and huge doors fronted the street, the less
important dwelling being stuck well in the
background. We were piled into the barns,
and the overflow slept in the porch just
inside the bolted massive doors. In the eerie
night a ghostly figure of ample proportions
was seen by a soldier who had been roused
from a deep sleep. “’Struth, what’s this?”
he yelled. The ghost collapsed in a heap
on top of the nearest sleeper. Next came
shouts of “Wot the ’ell’s fell on me?” and
the whole billet woke up. By the light of
matches hastily struck we discovered old
madame, in neck to ankles of flannel, trying
to get on her feet again. She had heard
Mrs. Nextdoor shrieking in the night, and
had made uncertain tracks for the bedside to
give her the benefit of having had a large
family herself.
* * *
“Mako”: When the last small-pox scare
hit Maoriland I was up at Wairoka, a small
backblocks village that had registered a
score of suspicious cases among the Maori
population. The storekeeper, in order to
retain his custom with the pakehas, had pro-
hibited all Maoris from entering his store,
but that did not deter Henare from doing the
family shopping. Armed with a long plank,
he came tramping down the dusty road. This
plank he placed against the verandah of the
store, and, taking up his stand in the road,
proceeded to call out the household require-
ments. The storekeeper responded: tins of
jam, packets of flour and sugar, bottles of
pickles slid and rolled down Henare’s plank.
When the tally was £2 10s., Henare indicated
that the family could keep going for a while.
Enlisting the assistance of a grinning brown
urchin, he piled the provisions on the plank,
took one end himself and gave the youngster
the other, and disappeared along the dusty
track leading to the kainga.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: The alleged “Tutankhamen
curse,” which is supposed to have contri-
buted to the recent suicide of Lord West-
bury, who had come into possession of some
of the relics from the tomb in the Valiev
of Kings, may be. fatuous superstition but
the prejudice against disturbing the bones
of the dead, however valuable mav be the
results to archaeology, is deep-seated. Per-
haps nothing illustrates it better than the
bad verse on Shakspeare’s tomb. There is
a certain ghoulishness even in the exhuma-
tion of Egyptian mummies, and a section of
the English press has always condemned the
activities of the late Lord Carnarvon and
his associates on that account. Only the
oi-imr day workmen repairing a highroad in
Wiltshire came on an ancient Roman stone
BETTER DEATH THAN DEFORMITY.
SWEET UPING THING (after having been informed of the necessity of an operation
for appendicitis) : “Oh, Doctor, I do hope the scar won’t spoil my appearance
in evening-dress!”
coflin containing bones. Experts assigned
it a b.c. date, and its value was undoubted.
But the local authorities refused to have it
disturbed or interfered with. They said it
would be none the less a sort of sacrilege
because the burial took place before the
Christian era. So the ancient legionary, or
whoever he was, still sleeps beneath the
traffic.
* * $ *
“Ela”: The Papua Administration prides
itself on its native policy, which largely con-
sists in letting Brown Brother have an open
go, arid fining employers who make any
attempt to restrain his exuberance. But
there are exceptions, even in “Port.” A
cookie recently reported to the
local authority that his sina-
bada had smitten him for per-
sisting in parking his hair comb
in the bread tin. He was flab-
bergasted when his plaint was
dismissed. A gloom has since
fallen over Hanuabada and
other fastnesses of the indigen-
ous population, and the general
impression in the sooty equiva-
lent of the Union Club is that
the country is going to the dogs.
* * *
“Shep”: After stowing my
issue in the letter-box, Mailbags
propped himself against the
gatepost. I noticed that he was
worrying out the details of a
small notebook, and volunteered
some information about new
arrivals in the street. “I know
all about them,” he replied;
“rememberin’ names is easy.
It’s other respons’bilities that
get a man down” ; and he read
from reminders in his notebook.
“Mrs A.: When ’er ’usband’s
gone up-country leave ’er letters
at the grocer’s.” “Mrs. B.: If
she’s standin’ on the verandah
when I pass keep, ’er letters till
she ain’t in sight.” “Mr. Blank:
Leave ’ees letters, if any, at the
pub an’ tick up a drink to ’im.”
He put the volume away and
wiped his moist forehead. “Us
blokes’d be ’andy divorce wit-
nesses,”' he said bitterly as he
moved away.
*
“Wart”: A boy pupil at the Ouse (Tas.)
State school collected a bundle of _ bark,
placed it under the corner of the building,
and set it on fire. The schoolmaster caught
him as he was running away, and made
him help to put the fire out. Followed an
appearance at the Children’s Court. “Why
did you set fire to the school?” the magis-
trate asked. “I wanted to go fishin’,” th 6
urchin explained.
* * * *
“Clericus”: When Byron wrote “The
Prisoner of Chillon” he or his editors thought
it necessary to affirm in footnotes that hair
could grow “white in a single night,” though
his hero’s didn’t. Sudden frosting of the
thatch is common enough in modern times.
Take the recent case of the 15-year-old Syd-
ney girl who married a Slav and was left »
widow, through suicide, within three days.
The child-bride’s hair was grey when she
attended the inquest. Another well authen-
ticated case occurred after the explosion at
the Mt. Kembla (N.S.W.) colliery in 1902.
A miner who should have been at work
decided to go fishing instead without letting
his young wife know. When he arrived home
it was to find that her hair had whitened
in grief at the thought that he was one of
the victims.
* * * *
“Penn”: The sergeant of police in our
little N.S.W. North Coast town was not
popular. He was especially disliked by
butchers, auctioneers and stockbreeders, being
the local stock inspector and officious.
Prowling around the yards one busy day
he overheard the conversation of a couple of
stockmen perched on the top rail of the sale
ring. “Hell!” drawled one; “the sergeant
must be slacking up lately. Look at that red
steer coming into the yard—the poor beggar
can hardly stand for antimacassar.” The
Law was through the rails in a twinkling.
“Hey, Bill,” he roared to the auctioneer;
“you can’t sell that beast. Any fool can
see it’s rotten with antimacassar.” The
ensuing howls of delight from the cattlemen
and their long memories probably had quite
a lot to do with the sergeant’s transfer a
little later to another North Coast town.
* $ # *
“Nakh.”: The business of terrorising Mel-
bourne bathers' has entered a new phase.
The shark scare having died down, some-
body has discovered that there are snakes
on some of the beaches. One council has
even gone the length of issuing a warning.
The reptiles are believed to be tourists from
the upper reaches of the Yarra that come
down on driftwood and are washed ashore.
* * * *
“Clarence Cafeteria”: It was recalled at a
commemoration service in Perth that, in the
first Methodist sermon preached in West-
ralia, the speaker announced that sinners,
who included punters, dancers and Sabbath
breakers, would be consigned to “the flaming
pit of Hell.” One of the reasons for the
falling-off in church attendances, in my
opinion, is the tendency of modern preachers
to substitute abstract ideas for the concrete
ones which were current in my boyhood.
In my young days H’ell was a reality.
Preachers could make you smell the brim-
stone, see the damned souls writhing, hear
the crackling. A favorite hymn ran thus: —
It doesn’t matter what they preach
Of high or low degree;
The old Hell of the Bible
Is Hell enough for me.
The worthy souls who flocked to hear their
favorite preacher descant on this theme are
the same who now flock to see crook drama
at the movies.
* * * *
“Isharagi”: Touching the red wine and
potato spirit that will give another kick after
a drink of water (B. 12/3/’3O), zabib, a
drink sold in Egypt and Palestine, has the
same quality. Colorless stuff, it goes milky
when mixed with water, and smells like
aniseed. Six swigs at half a piastre
each will stonker a man, but a few more
are needed at night if the elevation is to be
renewed by aqua pura in the morning.
Jfc
“Joe Diggs”: Owing to his nasty hahit
of forgetting to pay, Henare’s name at the
local pub was anything but good. One
evening just on closing time he dashed up
in a state of excitement and ejaculated.
“Poss, you give te bottle of pranty, quick.
My missus she coin’ to have te papy.” Bung
grumbled, but handed over the bottle.
Henare wasn’t seen for three months, and
then Pintpot happened across him in the next
town. “Hullo,” lie said with a scowl. “How’s
the baby?” “Te papy?” Henare replied.
“Wha’ papy?” “Don’t you remember?” said
the man of bottles. “You got a bottle of
brandy from me when your wife was going
to have a baby.” Light broke on Henare
like the rising sun. “Oh, yea,” he said. “I
remember —t’at’s te tay I cot marriet!”
BALLADE OF THE SATISFACTORY
SUBSTITUTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Very few men of my acquaintance married their
first loves, and, knowing them as I do, I’m sure they
would have settled down equally well with any
of the others.... Here and there a special soul-mate
may crop up, but if she is missed Adam will rub
along contentedly with someone else.” —A corres-
pondent in “Woman’s Mirror” 28/1/’3O.
Though the enraptured lover shriek
His praise of some exclusive Jane
Whose charms, allegedly unique,
Make her the “only one,” ’tis vain
To shirk reality; for plain
Fact to such raving sounds the kne11....
Should he her favor fail to gain
Some other Jane would do as well.
Though predatory eyes may seek,
Without return (save cold disdain),
Nor changing fortunes spring a leak
In constancy, ’twere still inane
From these the premise to maintain
That peace in lasting ritornelle
With first loves only can remain—
Some later love would do as well.
When years of married bliss make weak
The claim that wedlock is a strain,
Pell-mell romantic people streak
With breathless fervor to explain
Ideal mates on life’s terrain
Are germinate through lieavc-n’s spell
But stubborn truth declines to wane—
Some other mate would do as well.
Envoy.
So, sheik, if Phyllis should refrain
From falling victim to your spell,
Rend not your glad attire in twain—
Some other flap will do as well.
MAORILAND.
ANGUS MCEARWIG.


When you come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher’s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike,
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and th a t
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
Special tariff or inclusive terms.
jj e d and
wakfast
Tariff
lf desired
nUhetio
HOTEL
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel.” Svdnev.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire <
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fuss
Detonators
Cartridges
ADFIELDS
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crashing Machinery Works i;
Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS —DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadiields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and { Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W,
Foundries i Bassendean, Perth, W.A.
Branch ( 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Vic.
Office j T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub«
lie P.isk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etr.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Belle of New York”
Criterion “Journey’s End”
Royai, (com. Saturday) “The Prince & the Pauper”
state Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
H° YAr ' “The Maid of the Mountains”
New Comedy “Lombardi, Ltd.”
King’s Allan Wilkie
Hoyt’s Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
After hearing it for the umptieth time —
the Firm revived it at Her Majesty’s, Syd-
ney, on Saturday night before a crowded
house—this Showman’s conviction that “The
Belle of New York” is as nearly perfect a
musical comedy as has yet been evolved was
strengthened. The music is bright, vigorous
and, as befits the setting, distinctly Ameri-
can—not to be confused with negroid—in
flavor. It has about it that almost barbaric
gusto _ that Elgar found so admirable in
Sousa’s marches. There is enough continuity
about the plot to prevent interest in it
evaporating, and the songs and choruses have
a legitimate claim to their places amid the
action. Almost everyone in the cast has
a chance to shine, and it’s a very poor
co. that can’t make the piece at least fairly
successful. How much of the score Kerker
wrote and where he wrote it is lost in the
mists of three or four decades—he sank with
scarce a trace after this one phenomenal
success—but he earned a niche not very much
lower than that of Sullivan.
Saturday night’s production had the
advantages of good staging, competent acting
and a particularly good chorus. Marie Brem-
ner, as the Salvationist lassie who is too
pretty to be successful in her soul-saving
mission, is a model of demureness and sings
nicely. Most of the laughs fall to Leo
Franklyn, most versatile of mummers, and
his side-kicker—kicker is right Mary
Law T son. As Blinky Bill and his girl this
couple breeze through the piece disseminat-
ing chuckle-microbes, and on the first night
the audience defied the stage-manager and
held up the action of the piece till the pair
repeated one of their dances. Leslie Holland
J. J. HARDIE (£100).
MRS. KAY GLASSON TAYLOR (£250).
VANCE PALMER (£400).
“Bulletin” Novel Competition—This Year’s Prizewinners.
and Sidney Burchell, as the Bronsons, father
and son, are well in the picture, and Cecil
Kellaway gets a bit more out of the role
of the lunatic than is usually achieved.
Gwyneth Lascelles, a Sydney girl, who takes
the part of Fifi, has an exceptionally clear,
sweet voice, and acts vivaciously, but she
should get her French accent overhauled by
a native of Gaul. The orchestra (it is get-
ting to be so unusual to see one that it
deserves a mention) gives the show a brave
backing.
* # *
The Saturday night orchestral concerts at
Sydney’s Town Hall have created for them-
selves a large clientele, and though the latest
of the series fell on a night when the weather
was in a dirty mood the audience was a very
large one. Prof. Bernard Heinze, of Mel-
bourne’s Uni. Con., conducted, and the even-
ing’s big event was a performance of
Tschaikowsky’s Fifth Symphony. Following
an example set by Beethoven the Russian
makes effective use of a dominant motif,
supposed to represent the idea of Fate, but
which might equally be likened to a musical
announcement of the theory that life is just
one damned thing after another. Tschaikow-
sky dodged a good deal of life, being too shy
to face it, but he saw enough of it to imbue
this symphony with very deep feeling—the
finale is awe-inspiring in its grandeur.
The orchestra, led by W. J. Grieves, came
within a couple of rehearsals of a really fine
presentation, and gave a taste of what might
be done in Sydney by a permanent paid
organisation. The “Finlandia” of Sibelius, a
work of rare exotic charm, was played more
satisfyingly, and other items, with which
the performers were more familiar, were
done in almost impeccable fashion.
* * *
Gladys Moncrieff came out of her retire-
ment on Saturday to give an effortless voice
of the purest gold, a stern dramatic style
and a patriotic significance to the revival
of “The Maid of the Mountains” at Mel-
bourne Royal. A packed house greeted the
effort with prolonged applause, and by way
of a return the management at the final
curtain buried it in balloons. After the
works that have passed for musical comedy
of late the performance sounded and looked
like a masterpiece ; though people who can
remember the original production may have
a few injurious comparisons to make. The
Crumpet of Edwin Brett, for instance, had
the traditional limp, but one missed the
serio-comic dignity of Leslie Holland’s mas-
terly interpretation of the role. Gus Bluett
was less the Tonio of the play than the
familiar gag merchant known of yore. Lance
Fairfax’s Baldasarre was the nearest thing:
to a stained-glass picture any brigand chief
is ever likely to attain. Subject to these
amendments, however, the resolution that
“The Maid” was a tiptop show was put to
the conference assembled and carried with-
out a dissentient voice. In his old character
as General Malona, Arthur Stigant was all
over the field. No comedian of this genera-
tion' or the last ever brought so much charm,
intelligence and pure enjoyment to a vole.
Noel Boyd was an inconspicuous sub-heroine,
Madge Aubrey contributed some engaging
comedy, and the only adjective that crops
up in the mind with relation to Michael
Cole’s Beppo is winsome. He sang delight-
fully as w r ell.
* *
Melbourne patrons of Allan Wilkie flocked
in large numbers to the King’s on Saturday
night to see “The Jealous Wife” restored
to the Australian stage after an absence of
50-odd years. It is another eighteenth-cen-
tury comedy and a good illustration of the
fact that any century which produces more
than two or three plays worthy of revival
has done well by itself. George Colman’s
opus hasn’t the wit of “The School for Scan-
dal,” and much of it is melodramatic fustian,
but it must have been a good box-office draw
in its time, and in the present indulgent
temper of the populace it is a moderate draw
to-day. It contains a couple of strong parts.
In the raving Mrs. Oakly, whose suspicions
of her husband’s fidelity are symptoms of a
disordered mind, Miss Hunter-Watts had a
role that eminently suits the hard glitter and
histrionic artfulness of a ‘mature actress’s
style. Her raging gallop with the green-eyed
monster is the focal point of the play, and,
with the assistance of a henpecked swain
admirably portrayed by Alexander Marsh, she
made the most of it. Wilkie contrived to
attract attention mainly by dressing the part
of her profligate brother in peacock style.
As a plump heroine Marjorie Carr did not
look to be the sort of damsel who w r ould flee
from her father’s roof in order to avoid a
pre-arranged marriage with Sir Harry
Beagle (Arthur Keane), a fox-hunting
sauire, who refers to his unbeloved in terms
of the kennel and the chase. Her lover
Charles (John Cameron) w r as created before
playwrights learnt the art of making sym-
pathetic heroes, and his arrival in a state of
intoxication earned the silent disapproval
even of anti-prohibitionists in the house.
Beatrice Tange, whose recital was one of
the events of Sydney’s musical world last
week, is a young Australian pianist who
revels in rhythm and has made a close study
of dynamics. Her playing is clear and crisp,
and .she can unleash a fortissimo Ham-
burgian in its full-bodied resonance. In the
brilliant Tausig transcription of Bach’s
Toccata and Fugue in I) minor, the E flat
Rhapsody of Brahms, the “Revolutionary”
Etude and Liszt’s “Campanella” these quali-
ties were given free rein, with inspiring
results. In an atmosphere not quite so
exalted were pieces by three Sydney com-
posers—morceaux by Ernest Wunderlich and
Charles Davis, and the programmatic “Windy
Hill” of Roy Agnew, all brightly presented.
With violinist Cyril Scott, Miss Tange played
two movements of a sonatina by Dvorak.
The rollicking finale, in which the composer
has endeavored to translate a negro theme
into his own Bohemian idiom, was done with
plenty of fire. Several encore numbers were
demanded and given, among them a whirl-
wind performance of one of the liveliest of
Chopin’s valses.
The orchestra of Sydney Con. opened the
year with a rich variety of musical fare. Dr.
Arundel Orchard has under his baton a
band of very capable and intelligent musi-
cians, and the strings section, under the
leadership of Cyril Monk, is equal to any
task. Beethoven’s Second Symphony was the
evening’s most ambitious effort. It remains,
though 128 years have fled since the Man of
Bonn scored it, a miracle of freshness, grace
and spontaneity, proof against the compari-
sons of time. The orchestra played it hap-
pily, as it should be played. “Till Eulen-
spiegel’s Merry Pranks,” in which Richard
Strauss depicts in his original way the
madcap exploits and sad end of a hero of Ger-
man fairy lore —surely a cousin, at least, of
the Norsemen’s Peer Gynt—was performed
for the first time in Sydney. It is too com-
plex to assimilate at one hearing, though, the
motif being explained, the general outline can
be fairly easily followed. It ought to be
done again, before the hearers have forgotten
their first impressions. From a vat of a very
different vintage came Elgar’s “Froissart”
overture. The Englishman has mastered the
grand style, and his flow of invention never
falters. In this as in the fiery Introduction
to the Third Act of “Lohengrin” the orches-
tra reached rare heights. Violinist Florent
Hoegstoel, who played the solo part of the
Saint-Saens Concerto in A, has a tone
scarcely plump enough for such exploits, and
Robert Scott is hardly in the meistersinger
class, though he sang the “Prize Song” of
Wagner’s bard very nicely.
* * V
Benjamin Fuller has announced his inten-
tion of joining the queue of Australian trea-
surers in N’York, where he hopes to raise
a million pounds for Australia’s, if not the
world’s, greatest theatre, to be erected on the
site in Melbourne where the paint is at pre-
sent peeling off the Bijou. Meanwhile, that
theatre will be reopened by the Gregan
McMahon Players on the 29th, the initial
number being Maugham’s “The Circle.”
V V V
The centre of interest in Melbourne for
devotees of motor transport at the moment
is the basement of the Town Hall, where
28 manufacturers of motor-cycles are exhibit-
ing 130 machines, 95 per cent, of which are
British-made. One thing which strikes the
eye, and, incidentally, nearly blinds it, is the
fact that the humble object which carries the
workman home from his toil and the flapper
and her boy to the hills is steadily assuming
the luxurious appearance of the swankiest
type of car. Petrol tanks are painted in giddy
hues of scarlet, green or blue, frames glitter
with chromium finish, and enamel reflects the
light in dazzling beams. The gaudiest tropical
insect never thought of brighter means of
attracting the attention of the female of the
species. In addition there are labor-saving
devices such as lubricating systems, which
send the oilcan and the grease-gun finally to
the dustheap. The only features lacking are
the built-in vanity case, the cigarette-lighter
and the silver vase for the bunch of flowers
which grace the limousine. Doubtless these
will come. This year is described by the
makers as a silencer year. Methods for
reducing the shattering voice of the motor-
cycle to pianissimo are legion. Still, silencers
are detachable and human nature doesn’t
change. Melbourne distributors feel they
have a grievance over the licensing age. In
N. S. Wales it is 17, in Adelaide 14.
Melbourne youth is not regarded by the
authorities as having reached the age of
discretion until he is 18.
V * V
Admirers of Steele Rudd resident in the
suburbs of Sydney are still being provided
with opportunities to view their favorite in
the flesh and hear him talk in confidence
about the rest of the family. The news
that he was to include in his story-talk
“The King of Vinegar Hill,” an irresis-
tibly amusing piece from “Corporal Keeley’s
Confessions,” was sufficient' to coax The
Bulletin to far-distant Hornsby one night
last week. The railway junction town gave
him the most enthusiastic reception he has
encountered so far —and none of his audiences
have been unappreciative. For the benefit of
those Sydneysiders who prefer to take their
fun within the city boundaries, he will be
at the King’s Hall, Hunter-street, on Wed-
nesday, April 23.
The Palette
It is difficult to write about the work of
Howard B. Herbert, the Victorian water-color-
ist whose pictures—4o or 50 of them —are
being shown just now in Sydney’s Macquarie
Galleries, without appearing to gush. Here
is an artist who has found his metier, sticks
within it, and produces work that is uni-
formly delightful. Every picture “clicks.”
Hills, trees, roads and farmlands make up
Herbert’s world, and he has a pretty touch
with water and skies. Sunshine streams
through these landscapes, with one or two
really gorgeous representations of evening
shadows. The treatment of mountains sug-
gests at first glance the influence of Blamire
Young—there’s the same trick of making an
apparently flat wash represent rounded bulk
—but on further study the idea fades. The
strongest influence on Herbert has been the
beauty of the scenes he paints so charmingly.
Tire Arts and Crafts have blossomed out in
their new premises at 350 Little Collins-street,
Melbourne, with a show T of overseas posters,
most of them jazz specimens. The cubist and
futurist artists seem to be peculiarly adap-
ted to the art of the billboard. Horace
Taylor is an exception. His extraordinarily
striking, not to say beautiful, study of a
steamer in a dry dock is a more sincere
work of art than many of the recent acquisi-
tions of the Felton Bequest. There is a
brilliant geometrical study of Cairo by
Norman Wilkinson, and an effective series
is the one depicting “One Year in Australia,”
issued by the Empire Marketing Board. It
shows five months in the life of a Mallee
settler-first virgin scrub that “would
starve a lizard” ; then rolling, then burning,
then sowing and finally harvesting “and
contentment.” A bit optimistic, most old
Mallee hands will agree.


ffi
i
I'LL BET YOU
A NEW HAT'
Lift the tag —remove the cap-
sule—and a twist 'with finger
and thumb 'will give access to
the whisky with the largest
sale in the world.
A misguided gentleman bet Johnnie
Walker a new hat that he could find a
man—perfectly sane—who had changed
from Johnnie Walker to another whisky
and not regretted it. He searched—and
failed. So Johnnie Walker acquired a
new hat.
But he couldn’t discard his old topper,
which had served him faithfully since
1820. To think of Johnnie Walker in any
other hat is absurd.
So, that all his faithful friends might
profit by the bet, he swapped the topper
for the new stopper which everyone
agrees is a "corking” good idea.
Born 1820-
Still going Strong
;\x
S' L: -TV
0
wfecf-
JST!
JOHNNIE WAWK.ER
WHISKY
JOHN WALKER Sc SONS LTD., SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, LONDON and KILMARNOCK.


Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W
■
mm
“CHROMOL”—the
Super Driving Belt.
Unusual working conditions call for belting with
unusual qualities. “Chromol” is especially adapted
for heavy duty drives, and ensures reliable and
economic power transmission in a dust- and damp-
laden atmosphere, all kinds of weather and difficult
climatic conditions.
For long-life service and efficiency use “Chromol'’
belting.
The three “Chromol’’ belts shown here, 30in., 24in.
and 14in. wide, were made for heavy-duty drives in
a large mining plant.
<scaa@c£©t
(Chrome TFan Leather)
DRIVING BELT
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
PIONEER HOUSE, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
INSURE WITH THE
Mercantile Mutual
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Company—
Established 1878.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centres.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
This Week’s Investment Tip.
How are industrials likely to come out of
this financial embarrassment?
There is no precedent to go on. Certainly
the crash of the early ’nineties was produced
by over-borrowing, too, but there are essen-
tial differences. In that case it was de-
positors, mostly foreign, who wanted their
money back; the money had gone chiefly in
promoting a land boom, and the difficulty
was to liquidate private debts. The present
difficulty has arisen solely out of an excess
of imports over exports, and the immediate
trouble is to place the gold in London. To
square things we need to either import 40
millions less or export 40 millions more. The
latter is out of the question at the moment.
The fact must not be lost sight of that we
have been consuming 40 millions’ worth of
goods per annum that we haven’t paid for
at all. Some people have been talking as
though all we had to do was to switch local
factories on to making these 40 millions of
goods. It is not so. We will have to do
without them until we can pay for them.
Industrials are not, therefore, going to get
the hig immediate lift sometimes prophesied.
Though we have been borrowing hundreds
of millions, no gold has come to Australia.
Only goods. We have paid in part for those
goods with lOU’s, but we have sold them for
cash. Part of that cash —equal to the amount
borrowed abroad, less deductions —has been
put to Governments’ credit here. This is the
money that has paid for railways, bridges,
schools, etc. People who have handled those
loans in the shape of imported goods are
going to suffer. And the money itself will
cease to circulate.
We shall have to find employment for the
thousands who hitherto have been employed
(1) on the public works and (2) in handling
the 40 millions of excess imports. As many
as possible will be diverted to production of
exportable products, but the absorption of
labor there will be slow. We shall, however,
still be importing over 100 millions of foreign
goods. It seems inevitable that we shall turn
our attention that way as a means of absorb-
ing the displaced labor ; and that is where in-
dustrials will get a look in. The trend of
events seems to be all in their favor after
the immediate readjustments have been made.
Commonwealth General Assurance.
Excess Out-
Revenue. Claims. Expenses, goings. Deficit.
Dec., £ £ £ £
1921.. 19,481 4,340 20,186 5,045 13,988
Premiums on new shares, £449 (net) 13,539
1922.. 45,861 9,316 47,701 11,156 24,605
Premiums on new snares, £2Ol (net) 24,464
Share-selling costs .. 1,360 25,824
Paid for Co-op. and L.C.A.
Industrial departments . . 16,585 42,409
1923.. 81,519 23,567 70,846 12,894 55,303
From sale of Fire business, £25,378 31,299
1924.. 97,609 33,161 65,822 1,374 56,677
From Fire Dept. .. £3BB 30,911
To Reduction
of Deficit.
1925.. 77,258 18,648 47,701 10,909 20,002
Added to establishment, £6Bl . . 20,683
1926.. 75,130 12,760 44,129 18,241 2,442
Net unexplained reduction in Reserves, £461 2,903
Funds.
1927.. 80,583 17,504 ' 44,056 19,023 16,120
Added to establishment, £8394 - . 7,726
1928.. 91,531 17,233 56,015 18,283 26,009
Loss on security, £503 .. .. 25,506
1929.. 105,379 14,674 64,585 26,120 51,626
This is another post-war life office to reach
a crisis in its affairs. Discontent is at flood
amongst shareholders because,. after 10 years,
instead of being shown a dividend they are
asked for 2s. per share to square the accounts.
At Dec. 31 paid capital was £93,826 in
309,690 10s. shares called to 6s. Of these
74,318 are first prefs., 74,962 second prefs.
and the balance (160,410) ords. The prefs.
carry a cumulative 7 p.c., rank in the order
stated and are preferential _as to dividend
only until 7 p.c. has been paid on all shares.
The management now aims at getting in a
further £30,969, which is to be invested m
public securities for the purpose of giving
policy-holders the protection the actuary says
thev are entitled to. That is to say, to
bring net tangible assets (£147,847 at the
close of last accounts) into line with the
liabilities under policies. The “life fund
figured at £181,087 at Dec. 31.
Put in plain English, the co. has lost all
its paid capital, and much more; and
because there is an uncalled liability on the
scrip shareholders find themselves in the
position of having to put up the money neces-
sary to clean the'slate, or else forfeit their
shares, just at a time when everybody is
most anxious about his investments. And
even forfeiture does not relieve one of
liability.
What, therefore, shareholders are asking
themselves is whether the co.’s recovery is
possible, and if so, how, or is the new capital
likely to go down the sink the same as the
old lot. Chief factors responsible for the
co.’s present position have been: (1) the
high cost of putting business on the books,
made worse by heavy lapses: (2) heavy
losses in the fire and marine department,
which, by the way, was sold for £25,378
in scrip in 1924; (3) the purchase of some
ready-made industrial business at too high
a price; and (4) failure to develop a pre-
mium income large enough to support a
paid capital of £93,000-odd. Until the last
of the industrial policies referred to mature
they will represent a dead loss to the co.,
presumably covered by the call now being
made. With the accounts squared the road
would be clear for the co. to make pro-
gress ; everything then depending upon the
management’s ability to get costs down,
and to hold the business won. The dif-
ficulty so far as costs is concerned is that
competition is excessive, and, as long as it
remains so, overhead is likely to be heavier
than it ought to be, especially amongst the
younger set. The most satisfactory solution
of the problem lies in absorption by a
stronger office or the amalgamation of half
a dozen of these striplings.
At the moment what shareholders need
most to guard against is the destruction of
the business by squabbling amongst them-
selves. E. J. Bayliss, the ex-secretary of
the co., and A, T. Carpenter, of Hugh Duff
and Co., are seeking seats at the board in
place of Albert Gould and James Murdoch,
the retiring directors. On behalf of another
organisation (un-named) Mr. Bayliss last
year endeavored to secure an option over 80
p.c. of the scrip at 3s. for the prefs. and
2s. for the ords. He also made an offer to
buy the business outright for £40,000; this
the directors refused.
The figures in the introductory table treat
the business as a whole. Looking at each
department separately we get these results
Ordinary and Industrial Life.
Nominal
Income. Claims. Expenses. Surplus.
, no _ (Ord. £21,150 £1,558 £12,466 £7,126
1920 | Ind. 46,501 10.348 27,173 8,980
io9fi ) Old. 22,251 3,6i9 f 129 is 241
1920 [ Ind. 52,879 9,081 ) 44,129 18,241
iQ97 ) Ord. 21,540 4,444 ( ngg 19 023
1927 j Ind. 59,043 13,060 ) 44,000 19,020
( Ord. 25,993 4,235 | nia io oqq
1928 find. 65,538 12,998 f 56,01 ° 18,283
j Ord. 31,270 4,327 \ «. ror* 96 120
1929 | ind. 74,109 10,347 f 64,08 ° 2M2 °
Over the last two years the figures have
responded to an effort to arrest the drift,
but prospects are blanketed by heavy costs
and lapses.
Better class business was written m the
Ordinary branch last year, but exes, took
55.6 p.c. of the net premiums as against
59 p.c. and 41.6 p.c. in the two preceding
terms. Assuming that first premiums are
10 times more expensive than renewals,
then last year’s new business cost 157 p.c.
as against 144 p.c. the year before.
In the Industrial department an extra
£6451 of net premiums was gathered; but
here exes, ran off with 72.5 p.c. of the year’s
net premiums compared with 68.5, 63.8 and
64.6 back to 1926. They call loudly for
reduction.
The position as balance-sheet figures show
it is as follows: — „„„„
1924. 1928. 1929.
Government securities . . £10,240 £75,743 £78,934
House-purchase loans . . 10,101 27,076 47,821
Cash and deposits . . 3,556 —■■ 6,069
Loans on policies . . 345 1,936 2,941
Book debts .. ~ 6,563 15,710 10,543
Owing br other cos. .. 8,778
Agents’ balances . . 8,610 272 632
Shares in other cos. . . Lll3 J’ 797
Furniture, cars, stationery 4,024 2,887 3,744
£52,217 £124,737 £151,791
Sundry creditors . . 12,696 4,151 3,944
Net tangible assets .. £39,521 £120,586 £147,847
Provided the security on house-purchase
business has been w T atched, chief objection
there is that the surplus is not big enough,
as already explained.
The business will require very careful
nursing if further losses are to be avoided.
If they can be, prospects of shareholders
getting more than 4s. for the ords. are
encouraging.
D. and W. Chandler, Ltd. (Vic.).
Towards
Net , Dividends —-— N Re-
Jan Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
12,083
1923.. 9,913 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 6,133 3780 8,303
1994 14 734 8 „ 10 „ 11,600 3134 5,169
1925.. 13,749 8 „ 10 „ 11,600 2149 3,020
1926.. 9,714 8 „ 6 „ 8,400 1314 1,706
Reserves.
1927.. 10,583 8 „ 6 ~ 8,400 2183 477
1928.. 10,654 8 „ 6 ~ 8,542 2112 2,589
Added goodwill, £300.. .. •- 2,289
1929.. 11,261 8 p.c. 6 p.c. 9,245 2016 4,305
1930. . 12,823 8 ~ 6 ~ 11,255 1568 5,873
Shortly after this co. took over the 48-year-
old business of D. and W. Chandler in 1922,
hardware values slumped, competition sharp-
ened and profit margins narrowed. Thus it
lias come about that there is not much fat
in the trade; and the div., from which four
points were snipped five years ago, has been
kept at 6 p.c. There has, however, been
a heartening expansion of the business.
Development has been largely along mail-
order lines, followed, when sufficient turn-
over was assured, by the opening up of
branches. In this way the co. set up at
Bendigo, Ballarat and Horsham last year,
and it was already at Warrnambool.
The latest accounts exhibit a nice growth
in the figures despite glum conditions, especi-
ally in the north and nor’-west of Victoria.
The year’s gross profits (£83,963) sprang
£6134, having mounted by annual steps from
£57,156 in 1925. Exes. (£71,140) were
£4572 heavier ; thus the net result benefited
by £1562 of the increase. ' But there was
more capital to feed, so, after handing the
prefs. their £5400, the balance dropped back
to 7.6 p.c. on average ord. capital compared
with 8.3, 8.5, 8.7, 7.6 and 12.6 p.c. back to
1925. It is not a bad result, all things con-
sidered ; still capital would be none the worse
for more support, visible reserves being only
£5873 in excess of the £8237 of intangibles
at Jan. 11.
To finance the stock required for the new
branches £15,900 of ord. capital was got in
during the year, making paid capital £171,750
in 67,500 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and 104,250
ords. The board went outside for an extra
£27,527, raising the overdraft to £27,448
and the amount coming to sundry creditors
to £38,929. These and other things are seen
in the next comparison :
1924. 1928. 1929 1930.
Paid capital.. £l2iCo6o £l3O~OOO £155,850 £171,750
Liabilities .. 15,741 46,557 38,850 66,377
Freeholds .. 25,933 30,625 35,927 43,292
Plant, etc. .. 13,313 24,483 22,280 22,100
Stocks . . 73,628 89,162 100,486 135,459
Book debts . . 24,302 40,144 29,201 32,765
Cash, etc; . . 8,324 1,256 2,112 3,150
Shares other cos. 16,000 16,000
The more or less liquid surplus (£104,997,
including stock) improved £12.048 during the
year. Stocks (up £34,973) are the important
item; profit is largely governed by the basis
on which stocks have been valued. As for
plant, one-third of its cost has been written
off during the last eight years.
The co. manufactures much of its own
requirements. Tariff increases, promise of a
better season and the national necessity to
liven up primary production have brightened
the outlook. The market prices the prefs.
at 21s. 6d., at which figure the return is 7.4
p.c. The backing amounts to 525. Bd. in
net tangibles; and last year’s profit was
nearly times their annual requirements.
For the ords., which are covered by 21s. Id.
in net tangibles, sellers recently asked 18s.
without attracting buyers.
Queensland National Pastoral Co.
~ Dividends
Pref. Writ- Re-
Profits. 7 p.c. Ordinaries, ten Off. serves.
Dec., £ £ £ £ £
1919.. 94,176 17,500 8 p.c. = 48,000 23,861 98,261
1920.. 64,001 17,500 8 „ ~ 48,000 24,833 71,929
Loss.
1921.. 6,096 17,500 Nil 25,606 22,727
Profit.
1922.. 10,550 17,500 Nil 14,272 1,505
1923.. 37,867 17,500 Nil 16,328 5,544
1924.. 37.072 17,500 Nil 11,293 13,823
1925.. 41,864 17,500 Nil 22,413 15,774
Loss. Deficit.
1926. .205,435 Nil Nil 23,464 213,125
1927.. 27,679 Nil Nil 29,186 269,990
1928.. 79,628 Nil Nil 33,155 382,773
1929.. 47,943 Nil Nil 29,869 460,585
When this co. took over in 1915 the pas-
toral properties left on the Q. N. Bank’s
hands 20 years earlier, circumstances were
kind for a while, and a run of moderate
divs. was paid. Presently the bottom dropped
out of the Australian meat-export trade, and
for the five years to 1925 it was a struggle
to keep up payments to the prefs. Then,
just as the figures began to improve—more
attention was being given to sheep—drought
arrived and commenced to consume part of
the assets. It has continued to do so for
the last four years, sinking its teeth deeper
into capital.
Though conditions on the eo.’s runs im-
proved last year and the market for prime
bullocks strengthened, the depleted herds and
flocks were mostly in poor condition, and the
slump in wool values bit into earnings; thus,
after allowing for losses on livestock, the
contraction in sales was £17,108. Here are
the figures, with some cheerless comparisons:
1925. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Sales, etc. ..£187,938 £97,065 £75,318 £58,210
Expenses .. 146,073 124,744 154,945 106,153
Depreciation. . 22,413 29,186 33,155 29,869
Notwithstanding that exes, were £48,792
lighter, they still exceeded the year’s sales
by £47,943. Hence the co.’s_ losses for the
last four years, including £115,074 struck off
for depreciation, total no less than £476,359,
leaving it with a deficit of £460,585 at Dec.
31. That was equal to 15s. 4d. per share on
the £600,000 of ord. capital.
Nor is that all. In its fight to protec.,
the co.’s chief earning asset, the livestock,
the management has added £109,769 to the
outside debt since 1925, raising it to
£244,863, of which £213,292 was coming to
the bank at Dec. 31. Here is the co.’s unen-
viable position as balance-sheet figures reflect
it: —-
1925. 1928. 1929-
Capital £650,'000-£850,000 £850,000
Liabilities .. .. 135,094 202,551 244,863
Freeholds . . .. 68,605 68,605 68,605
Leaseholds . . . . 325,524 286,065 261,194
Livestock . . . . 495,513 216,852 223,639
Plant and stores . . 85,285 80,874 77,434
Wool 34,490 16,232 2,156
Debtors, cash, etc. .. 8,950 1,150 1,250
The £42,312 borrowed last year, and more,
was all lost. Thus the liquid position
worsened by £49,501, outside liabilities being
£17,818 in excess of the book value of live-
stock, wool, cash, etc., at the close of
accounts.
Recent downpours in the far west of
Queensland have changed the outlook, and
the reduction in shearing rates and a
stronger cattle market should, help; while
the fall in sheep prices will make restocking,
which has already commenced, less expensive.
Nevertheless, there is a lot of leeway to be
made up.
When the books closed there was £70,000
in accrued divs. (6s. 4d. per share) coming
to the prefs.—2so,ooo of them _ carrying a
fixed cumulative 7 p.c. and haying priority
as to capital. The market prices them at
11s. 6d.; the backing amounts to 31s. Id.
in net tangibles, mostly leasehold. There
has been no business in the ords. of late.
W. E. Smith, Ltd. (Sydney).
Written Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. .. 9678 12} p.c. = 5624 1034 12,690
Co. reconstructed, visible and internal re-
serves capitalised, and goodwill included at
£7522 (not treated as an asset hereunder).
To Re-
serves. Deficit.
1920.. .. 12,694 8 p.c. = 8000 4594 2,928
1921.. .. 4,751 5 „ „ 6000 3,177
1922.. .. 6,381 6 „ „ 6000 381 2,796
1923.. .. 7,615 6 „ „ 6000 1515 1,281
Reserves.
1924.. .. 6,632 6 „ „ 6000 1532 251
1925.. .. 5,376 5 „ „ 5000 376 627
1926.. .. 6,562 5 ~ ~ 5000 1562 2,189
1927.. .. 7,387 5 ~ ~ 5000 2387 4,576
1928.. .. 7,027 5 ~ „ 5000 2027 6,603
1929.. .. 7,092 5 „ ~ 5000 2092 8,695
In 1915 £30,000 was struck off the capital
(£75,000). That was mainly to write down
assets taken over when the business was
transferred to this public co. 18 years ago.
Immediately the figures began to improve ;
by 1919 the div. had climbed to 12| p.c. and
£12,590 of reserves had accumulated. The
circumstances of the moment were abnormal,
but the board saw the glow reflected into
the future. Hence, not only was the written-off
capital restored, on paper, but £25,000 was
added; thus in one leap capital bounded
from £45,000 to £lOO,OOO, at which figure
it has remained.
Of course, results have failed to justify the
printing of so much scrip. Over the 10
years to the close of last accounts share-
holders averaged only 51 p.c., equal, cer-
tainly, to 12.3 p.c. on capital as it stood
before the writing up. Lately margins
between earnings and distributions have been
a trifle more comfortable, but there is not
much of a buttress for capital in the £8695
of reserves, and the movement in profits
has been very sluggish.
Moreover, the growth of the specialist in
office supplies and the multiplication of. the
job printer has kept an edge on competition;
and the co. will do very well if it manages
to hold business and maintain the present
rate of div. for a while. Last year there was
a falling off of £2099 in gross profits
(£42.741) ; but this was offset by a cut of
£2163 in exes. (£35,650). The problem for
the management is how to get overhead and
costs down.
The financial position improved a trifle: —
1923. 1925. 1928. 1929.
Stocks .. .. £50,577 £53, 280 £53,486 £55,874
Book debts, etc. . . 22,245 16,110 20,619 20,272
Cash . . . . 4,942 2,972 2,112 797
£77,764 £72,362 £76,217 £76,943
Liabilities . . 9,920 54,738 58,292 58,781
Liquid surplus . . £67,844 £17,624 £17,925 £18,162
The debt includes a mortgage of £16,600
(up £3933 during the year) and £24,000
of 7 p.c. debentures, got in to finance the
move to George-street five years ago and
being worked down at the rate of £lOOO
a year. Stocks (up £2388) are a promis-
cuous lot. Last year £5974 was spent on
plant and £3836 written off, leaving the
item with a book value of £41,900. Freehold
was unchanged at £51,133.
The market, doubtful about the future,
prices the pound shares at Bs. lOd. as
against 12s. a year ago. The return at the
current figure is 11.1 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div.
basis. The scrip is covered by net tangible
assets with a book value of 21s. 9d.
(Wild Gat continued on page 20.)


Modish Beauty, concealing the
rugged strength
that assures de-
pendable service
M
r/^-
j
less
few
FIR i {
v.\5K
rCwfi *2
r
wrn
«**•*
i
JN any assembly of
fine motor cars
Oakland is at once
distinguished by its
striking originality of
style and beauty.
It is a car of flowing
contours and softly
rounded curves—a car
graceful . ..elegant
.. . modish. Women
recognise its style as
infallibly as they detect
a Paris gown.
And underneath this
modish beauty is a rug-
gedness that a man’s
mechanical sense ap-
predates; underneath
the smart bonnet is a
big sturdy engine that
promises great things
. . . smooth, silent, un-
failing power. . . flash-
ing acceleration . . .
speed to spare.
On the road this
promise is fully justi-
fied. Take the wheel
and prove it . . . test
Oakland against other
cars... feel its smooth-
ness at whatever speed
you dare to drive . . .
note how surpassingly
easy it is to steer . . ,
how effortless is the
clutch and gear action
.. . how swift and sure
is the operation of
the four-wheel brakes.
Your local dealer
will gladly supply a
car at your request,
and also answer your
queries regarding the
General Motors War-
ranty and the easy
payment scheme
available under the
G.M.A.C. Plan.
GENERAL MOTORS
(Australia) Pty. Ltd.
‘Brisbane - Sydney - Melbourne
«Adelaide - Perth.
Q4KIAND
that Dainty Hand? can Drive
GENERAL MOTORS CGr-~loo\ inside and note the differenceJ


HAVE WE
REACHED
BOTTOM ?
See ‘“Wild Cat’
Monthly”
for March
NOW ON SALE
SINGLE COW, 2/-; PER ANNUM,
22/G. From Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
rDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patent*
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
British and American. Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne. —Advt.
* $ * *
On the count of economy, both as regards first
cost, installation and upkeep, no pipe can approach
Pioneer Wood Pipe. And as regards its ability to
give absolutely satisfactory service, it is hall-marked
by experienced engineers, who use it extensively.
Pioneer Wood Pipe is non-corrosive, light, strong
and extremely durable. Fullest particulars and
illustrated data book free on request to The Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near
Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at Foot-
sci’ay, Victoria.— Advt.
* * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradieator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
BIG PROFITS
WHALES
Norwegian Ships Return with
£6,000,000
AUSTRALIAN WHALING COMPANY NOW CREATES GOLDEN OPPORTUNITIES
FOR INVESTORS TO OBTAIN A SHARE OF THIS RICH HARVEST.
The way out of present-day difficulties is by wise venturing and courageous employ-
ment of our savings and energies in the production of those primary commodities
which all the world demands.
Australia’s productive possibilities in WHEAT, WOOL and WHALE OIL are unlimited. W T e may
not —for the moment —be able to dive more deeply into our Wheat and Wool “pockets” for new
wealth production to improve the National Balance-sheet. However, immense wealth in easily won
WHALE OIL lies right at our very doors and awaits exploitation.
The Australian Whaling Company, Limited, creates a golden opportunity for every investor to
reap bis share of this rich harvest
The following extracts from the “Guardian” (11/3/’3O) tell their own story :
“Australia looks on while Norway grows rich... .taking over £6,000,000 out of whaling grounds
south of Australia, and it is estimated that all records will be broken. The factory ship Kosmos
ia returning with 116,000 barrels of oil worth about £070,000.”
Sir Douglas Mawson made the following public statement: —
“Almost at the doors of Australia lie mighty stretches of sea teeming with wealth —a number of
whaling companies have a gross return of £500,000 per annum and pay dividends from 40 to
100 per cent.”
The Anglo-Ncrwegian Holdings, Ltd., report a catch producing 122,925 barrels of oil valued at
£512,000, and in addition 19,900 bags of guano as the result of 10 weeks’ operations.
AUSTRALIAN WHALING COMPANY FORMED.
The Australian Whaling Company Limited (authorised capital £750,000) has gone to allotment—
having received applications for 75,000 shares. This Company has now acquired, as a going concern,
the Norwegian Bay Shore Whaling Station, where last, working season 1936 whales, valued at
£lBO,OOO, were taken—a catch representing over 50 per cent, nett profit on capital employed.
Sufficient capital is now in hand to operate this shore station, which expert whalers say is one
of the best and most profitable shore stations in the world. Operations will then be extended to
Antarctic waters, where Sir Douglas Mawson reports by wireless that “w ! est of Enderby Land
whales are exceptionally abundant."
This comprehensive plan will give at least eight months’ profitable whaling with the one equipment
each year —a marked advantage over the Norwegians, who, however, have reaped huge fortunes out
of their short season of four months’ whaling.
INVESTORS SEEKING BIG DIVIDENDS SECURED BY TANGIBLE ASSETS SHOULD APPLY
FOR PARTICULARS TO “AUSTRALIAN WHALING COMPANY, LTD.,” HEAD OFFICE, 16
BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY.
Australian Banner Knitting (Sydney).
Net , -Dividends To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.
1927.. 7,311 lOp.c. 10 p.e. = 4459 2852 7,238
1928.. 10,578 10 „ 10 „ ~4807 5771 13,009
1929.. 8,226 10 „ 10 „ „ 4845 3381 16,390
The public became interested in this little
Sydney hosiery concern three years ago, when
the prefs. were listed. Substantial additions
were made to the plant in 1927, but business
was so brisk in the following year that the
machines were unable to keep pace with the
spring and summer demand. To guard
against the possibility of a recurrence during
the last term, the board decided to build
up stock. Unfortunately, trading became more
difficult as the year advanced, and stocks
clung to the shelves; they were £13,042
heavier at Dec. 31 than they were a year
earlier, and had become the star item in the
sheet.
The year’s gross profit (£55,673) slipped
£4214; but as exes. (£47,676) were got back
£1862, the recession in the net result was
reduced to £2352. The £8226 of profit claimed
was 17 p.c. on average capital compared with
22 p.c. and 16.4 p.c. for the two preceding
years, so there was a tidy margin over the
all-round 10 p.c. div. The lay-by, which is all
used in the business, was lifted" to £16,390 in
excess of the £2OOO at which goodwill figures.
The year’s profit, plus nine-tenths of the
capital, was on the shelves when the books
closed; so a lot depends upon the figure at
which stocks have been written. Here is the
co.’s position as balance-sheet figures disclose
it: —
1927. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital .. .. £47,757 £47,757 £50,107
Liabilities 55,089 48,925 54,091
Freehold 15,557 15,489 15,489
Plant, etc. .. .. 31,810 31,816 34,084
Stocks 42,666 39,394 52,436
Book debts 24,785 36,910 22,844
Cash, etc 539 800 502
At the close of accounts there was £36,173
coming to the bank and £17,918 to sundry
creditors; thus there was 16s. 3d. of outside
money at risk in the business for every pound
belonging to shareholders. Things will look
safer when stocks are worked down and
liabilities reduced. The more or less liquid
surplus (£21,691, including stocks) was
£6488 lighter than at December, 1928. Plant
is reported thoroughly up-to-date and in good
condition.
Owing to the handicap which recent tariff
adjustments has placed on foreign competi-
tion, prospects are said to be bright. But
business won’t be easy to get. Local hosiery
concerns are all speeding up their outputs,
and presently Ivayser’s, the American silk
stocking people, will be producing here. Also,
spending promises to be on a reduced scale.
The market, after considering the risks,
prices the prefs. around par. There are
18,350 of them carrying a fixed cumulative
10 p.c., with priority as to capital. Last
year's profit was over four times their annual
requirements; the backing amounts to £3
12s. sd. in net tangibles.
Australian General Insurance.
To Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves
£ £ £ £
1926.. 10,577 10 p.c. = 5000 5,577 26,641
1927. . 10,580 10 „ „ 5000 5,580 32,221
1928.. 16,145 10 „ „ 6000 10,145 42,366
1929.. 16,938 10 „ „ 6993 9,945 52,311
This lusty youngster has made splendid pro-
gress since it began to do business direct
with the public, and opened up branches in
Meloourne and Adelaide —that’s about four
years ago. Its success is explained by its
close association with the very solidly estab-
lished Mercantile Mutual; the control and
activities of the two concerns are largely
interlocked. For 17 years it was solely a re-
insurance office, sharing mainly the Mercan-
tile’s risks; in the last five years it more
than trebled its net premium income, which
is now one-third the size of the Mercantile’s.
As the business grows the policy is to get
in additional capital; and since the 10 p.c.
div. is more than covered by returns from
investments, shareholders welcomed a request
for another Is. on each of the 200,000 £1
shares, making them paid to 75., and advanc-
ing capital to £69,935 at Dec. 31; there was
then only £7O to coine in. For the last term
interest and rents turned in £7417, making a
total of £24,254 for' the last four years.
Over the same period £22,993 was handed
out in divs.; thus the whole of the under-
writing surplus and £1261 besides was avail-
able to swell investments and the returns
therefrom.
The underwriting business has stepped
along like a thoroughbred: —
Loss Exes.
Net Ratio, Ratio,
Premiums. Claims. Exes. p.c. p.c.
1926.. £96,550 £55,475 £35,176 57.5 36.4
1927.. 115,734 69,236 41,470 59.8 35.8
1928.. 120,614 65,175 45,899 54 38.0
1929.. 133,101 67,838 55,741 51 41.9
Despite difficulties an additional £12,487 of
net premiums was gathered at an extra cost
of £9842 last year; claims were £2663
heavier. Thus the co. got no benefit from the
bigger business, the underwriting surplus
being a few pounds lighter than the previous
year’s. Still, the loss ratio, down three
points, leaves no doubt as to the quality of
the business. The office problem is how to
keep exes, down; they are climbing fast with
wider policy-writing. Compared with the
previous year it last year cost nearly £4
more to handle each £lOO of net premiums.
Policy-holders need lose no sleep. At the
close of last accounts reserves were only a
wink under 40 p.c. of the year’s net pre-
miums ; and 40 p.c. is the standard provision.
Assets are a satisfactory lot, as this next
comparison shows: —
1926. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital . . £50,000 £50,000 £60,000 £69,935
Liabilities . . 20,777 10,983 16,194 17,661
Freeholds . . 2,540 2,540 2,540 2,500
Mortgages . . 23,910 . 25,435 26,860 34,560
Debentures . . 6,000 6,000 6,000 9,000
Public securities.. 36,666 36,598 50,039 62,043
Book debts . . 5,728 5,052 5,890 6,842
Cash, etc. .. 29,073 29,079 34,731 39,456
if more is wanted shareholders can be called
upon to dredge up £130,000.
The co. shows every promise of developing
into another strong Australian underwriter.
The market prices the scrip at 11s. 6d. as
against 13s. 6d. a year ago, the recession
being due mainly to the hardening of interest
rates. At the current price the return is
G p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The backing
amounts to 12s. 3d. per share in net tangibles.
The Tin Restrictions.
Tiie Bulletin's oldest authority on the
metal market takes a cheerful view of the
tin position:—
The effect of the move to restrict the output of
tin is being very earnesly discussed in American
technical journals. One of these, “The Engineering
and Mining World,” says: “Speaking statistically, to
the end of October, 1929, no evidence of production
increasing the over-supply of metal was discernible.”
Where American demand has fallen off there have
been unexpected European demands, notably from
Russia. But this consumer is looked on as uncertain,
owing to its economic policy. The general conclu-
sion of the American writer is that “a large
number of producers, however, cannot show a reason-
able profit at current prices, which means
that resources are being depleted without profit to
shareholders, or even additions to. company capital.
Hence, when prices do turn and a rising market is
experienced, such producers will not be in a posi-
tion to increase output. Therefore, inasmuch as the
market obviously cannot go much lower for any
length of time, and assuming that world consump-
tion does not decline markedly, my view is that
in 1930 prices will tend toward higher levels.
After three years of decline we may reasonably
expect the pendulum to swing the other way, though,
of course, if the present attempts at arranging co-
operative restriction come to nothing we may see
a sharp temporary reverse.”
A glance at the list of yearly average prices for
tin over the last 20 years shows the following years
below £2oo:
1910.. £155 6 0 1916.. £lB2 0 0
1911.. 192 70 1921,. 165 5 0
1914.. 15611 0 1922.. 159 9 0
1915.. 163 19 0
The average for these years was £167 16s. The
other 13 years of the 20 averaged over £250. If
the high war-year 1918 is left out, the average
of the other 12 years is £243.
The point is that one must take a broader view
of the future of tin prices than a consideration only
of yesterday’s quote for tin. If a tin property has
a life of 10 years, it is reasonable to take the average
price for tin during the last 20 years as a guide
to what the average price will be for the 10
years of the life of the property. Now the average
of the last 20 years is £222 nearly. This fact
should be remembered by the timid.
One' might as well argue that, because the tem-
perature was 106 a few days ago, it is always
going to be 106 degrees, as to say that yesterday’s
quote for tin, whatever it was, is going to be the
price for ever more. The average price is the thing
to bear in mind, and that is the comfortable figure
of £222.
Having that in view, it appears that some tin
stocks are very moderately priced.
* * * #
In Broken Hill the mere mention of June
brings a shudder. After that, date zinc con-
centrates will no longer be taken over , at a
favorable flat rate by the British Government.
The staff at the Broken Hill Prop. Co.’s
mine, numbering about 100, have all received
notice of a total suspension of operations
in September, and advised to find another job.
With lead at £lB 10s. and zinc about the
same figure, the prospects of the two or
three thousand men on the British and Junc-
tion sections of the North Mine, Block 14
and B.H.P. and even the Central mines are
gloomy.
Taking it all round, Broken Hill has been
the most cheerful industrial town in the
Commonwealth for many years, and it
scarcely realises yet what it is up against.
So far as the South, North and Zinc Cor-
poration are concerned, it is' probable that
their specially favored circumstances, includ-
ing the best the world can yield in brains
and equipment, will see them through.
* * *• *
For years the Miners’ Union prevented
contract work in the mines on the Murchison
goldfield. Now, rather than see the mines
at Meekat.harra and elsewhere close down,
and cause a few hundred workers to lose their
joos, the union has done the eommonsense
thing and abandoned its opposition. At the
moment, Australian industry generally is los-
ing far too heavily through lack of efficient
co-operation between managements and the
rank-and-file. The Mt. Lyell and Electro-
lytic Zinc cos. have given a lot of attention
to this question, and some worth-while results,
both for the men and the cos., have been
achieved.
* ❖ ❖
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) keeps going.
Between 25000 z. and 30U0oz. gold are being
won monthly, but expenditure, including a
State contribution for developmental work,
still exceeds receipts. Nevertheless, owing
to the discovery of a new shoot in the
bottom workings and an improvement in
geological conditions at depth, things are not
as bad as they look on paper. In fact, pros-
pects are more hopeful than for some time
past.
=i= * * *
Westonia (W.A.) is not getting on very
well. Last year several shows were referred
to Adelaide and Perth as good things, and a
little market flutter was engineered. Now
all is quiet on that front. Bose Grant, who
w-nt to London to raise capital for the Edna
May Group and returned empty handed,
reports that negotiations are merely hung up
—further information has to be sent to
British investors.
% Jj: # H*
G. H. Wray, representing J. A. Agnew and
others in London, has given up the job of
prospecting for alluvial gold on Lake Austin
(W.A.). Wray, when reporting on West-
ralian gold finds for 8., M. and Co. years ago,
was struck by the possibilities of Lake
Austin. He suggested dredging, but nothing
was done. Recently he put down a number
of bores across the Lake, but the tests did
not come up to expectations.
* * :'fi
“O.B.”: Recent discovery of rich tellu-
rides in the Lake View (W.A.) revives
memories. Largely from this rare mineral
came the immense dividends obtained in past
years from the Golden Mile. The yield of
gold from these shows so far has been over
7,000,0000 z., while the divs. paid come to
nearly £23,000,000. Occurrences of gold
tellurides in lodes do not necessarily indicate
richness, however. Compounds (or alloys)
of gold and tellurium have been found in
quartz veins in many parts of the world, but
only at Kalgoorlio, Gympie and Cripple
Creek, Colorado, have the finds developed
into rich goldmines.
$ :{$ $ $
Several attempts have been made to un-
water and put in order the Sand Queen and
Gladsome mines at Comet Vale (W.A.) since
the areas were given up by the original
owners. The present co., however, is the
first to succeed. Mining operations are pro-
ceeding, and ore treatment will commence
shortly. Should the Sand Queen shoot con-
tinue into the Gladsome workings at depth
of 400 ft. as expected, yields should be good.
* ;Jt % sjs
From a man on the spot:—
Perth newspapers have just given Wiluna a write
up and made much of its equipment, its wealth,
its management and its importance to the State.
Reserves are given as li million tons of 355. to
40s. rock, compared with 1,000,000 tons of 395.
stuff a little while ago, and the same quantity of
40s. ore previously. As, however, the inclusion of
a lot of mullock with ore can’t be avoided under
the new-fangled s.vstem of stoping adopted, the co.
will be lucky if the . material sent to the mill
averages 355. a ton. Low costs are expected to
offset this probable reduction in grade; but that’s
always problematical.
* * * *
Malayan Tin Dredging and Southern
Malayan Tin Dredging, two closely asso-
ciated London concerns operating in Ala lay a,
have joined the movement to restrict tin
production. At a recent meeting of Malayan
Tin it was decided to cease operations with
1 and 2 dredges, the oldest of the company’s
plant, which will be dismantled and sold. A
new dredge is to replace these later; mean-
time the diminution in the co.’s production
rate is put in at 14 p.c. of the total output.
Malayan has a big property in the Kinta
Valley which, until recently-, was carrying
six dredges. Southern Malayan works two
dredges and both shows maintain a large
and consistent output.
❖ ❖ . ❖ *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Sei'vice Department.)
Will ordinary creditors yet anything oat
of the liquidation of C.A.S.E. (Common-
wealth Agricultural Service Engineers) ?
4914.
Finalisation of the liquidation of this
co. is dependent on the completion of the
liquidation of the National Guarantee Cor-
poration, which owes C.A.S.E. £53,000;
final payments under various bills for goods
sold are not due till next year; also, several
law cases are pending. Outgoings are also
uncertain. ; Both original liquidators are
dead, and present liquidators have been
acting for 2\ years and have had thus far
only £BO each.' Naturally, they want more.
Subject to realisations, and making all
reasonable allowances, it looks as if ordinary
creditors will get anything from 2s. to 4s.
in the £.
I am asked to join in a movement to secure
the stoppage of canvass for new business by
a leading life office in which I have a policy.
What does it mean? —5435.
The idea is to cash in the goodwill for
the benefit of present policy-holders. This
really isn’t as new as the promoters of the
present movement suggest. It was what
happened, in effect, when the Widows’ Fund
and M.L.A. transferred their businesses to
the Citizens’ (now the M.L.C.) under agree-
ment. One result is that the old Widows’
Fund policy-holders, at any rate, are getting
bonuses “unique in the world’s history of
life assurance.” The other result, of course,
is that in a few years the society will have
gone completely out of existence.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
M.S.S.: (1) On present appearances, yes.
(2) There are several better... .Violet M.: Things
threaten to be quiet in their line foi\ a long while.
... .Biddulph: Wouldn’t risk it... .F.J.W.: (1) Yes;
unless you can sell the part-paid bonds without loss
of more than 25 p.e. (2) No, not at present
R. 8.: South Rockwell was one of a group of shows
in the Rockwell paddock of Mt. Gipps, outside
Broken Hill, prospected without success in the late
’eighties. They all disappeared long ago....Tino:
See no reason why they shouldn’t G.McK.: For
a gamble, yes ; if you can’t afford to put the money
in and forget it, n 0...: S.M.F. : Better drop out.
. . . .A.H. (N.Z.): Prospects poor; better take what
you can get. .. . K.M.A.: Don’t know it. Have you
got the name right?... .Landonia: (1) A gamble
with the slenderest chances. (2) Not listed on any
exchange. .. . L.C.E.: Financial position of all three
satisfactory, but believe shares will go lower, especi-
ally No. 2. ' .


“ The Potter Thumping
his Wet
EGYPT is a land of sharp
contrasts side by side with
the most modern institutions.
Primitive crafts are still practised
as in the days of the Pharaohs.
Workshop and bazaar are sources
of never-failing interest. Special
excursions to Cairo are arranged
for Orient Line passengers on
ships leaving Australia from
January to May, inclusive. Dis-
embarking at Suez, there is time to
visit Cairo, the Pyramids and
Sphinx, and to see the historical
Nile before rejoining the ship at
Port Said. The First-class fare is
£B/14/-, and the Second-class fare
is £7/9/-
ORIENT LINE
1
w
i
jTOiwer*
Vw
\
%r
y
j> v
4
rz
/ /
%
Y*
h
*m.
, -&
Sr®
**£&
z
Y..
y.
0
*S
>*>
&
yJk
y*-z
m
V'l
m
u
'■hi A
J
*2
h
%
*
K
%
w*
I
v
yyj'
•e
VU'
>v
zz
Sg
kV>.'
Each port of call has its own
attractions. Kandy and Mt.
Lavinia are easily reached
from Colombo; from Naples,
Pompeii and Vesuvius are to
be seen. Toulon is interesting
as an old French naval base.
Moorish castles, the Alameda
Gardens and the famous
galleries may be visited from
Gibraltar.
Branches and Agencies in all cities and principal towns.


T„\.' ; :
m
' •■:•.•,• ''•.<£". .-..v •
r’.vTv • ‘u^^". —*'
; : v; ‘"*H .-'^
.v-- •»'
&•::. • < ;8 j
35*St
I
«$s /
1
'fcjsieJS
s
i' $
&» ■'■■
m
wmmw*
mMosM $
■1
"S
H
s !
iMfs
?P
•v: p
& <H
■
i
&=■£
,r/«
jj*B»
w;
*
■
IS
?
■
*ra
-
m
'rr /
£
ar? ;
■ ' .
!>:•* - v '
• .
J
■•■■■■ . .... ,v ' .. ■•
ft s*f
il
1 n
.. ~ /
Si£
. -'
-* ••••
: ' ■■■ ■. ' •• > *••• ,
\ &m emss msmmism
m n
<a-t-~.<gW*j9g
4
It.?
W;
'4,'S..
I
>ws
V,
SBSS,
’«? <S£'i§bi
SuMr y.fr"" 'i
W>;- 3
•w. 2rt& -f.vr,
%WMi
V %M
■aagtf is
1
ts
COMBAT REDUCED INCOME .
with INCREASED PRODUCTION!
A FLOCK of 1000 ewes cutting an average of 81b. would in the past have grown you £666 worth of wool, on a
selling price of 20 pence.
To-day, the same ewes would grow you £4OO worth, based on a price of 12 pence.
If you could grow an extra 21b. of wool per ewe, mark 10 per cent, more lambs from them, and cut 11b. more wool from
the lambs, your return, instead of being £4OO, would be approximately £590,
This can be, and has been done with the help of—
MEGGITTS LINSEED SHEEP NUTS
THE METHOD:
THE COST:
THE RESULT:
Feed your ewes before and during lambing over a period
of six weeks. Use a maximum ration of 2oz. daily.
Less than 2d. per ewe per week for six weeks.
Increased lambing and increased wool growth.
THE REASON!
Meggitt’s Linseed Sheep Nuts supply the
vital essentials for making frame, milk
and fleece. Their highly concentrated
character makes the smallest ration
effective. In addition, they are a tonic
and stimulator.
Net Increased Income per 1000 Ewes*
Sib. extra wool per head £lOO
10% extra, lambs 50
lib. extra wool from 80% lambs, Ifl
mo
Less cost of six weeks’ feeding .. J+o
Net increase per 1000 ewes ..... £l5O
IT IS ESSENTIAL THAT YOU USE MODERN, SCIENTIFIC AND
PRACTICAL METHODS TO OFFSET THE PRESENT SLUMP.
Commonwealth Distribution:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Meggitt,
Limited, Asbestos House,
corner York and Barrack
Streets, Sydney, and all
Pastoral Houses, or Agents.
VICTORIA: New Zealand Loan
and Mercantile Agency Co.,
Ltd., Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Branches.
QUEENSLAND: All Pastoral H ouses and Agents; also Denhams,
Ltd., Brisbane; Denham Bros., Ltd., Rockhampton; Cum-
mins and Campbell, Ltd., Townsville and Cairns; Corser
. and Co., Maryborough.
TASMANIA : F. W. Heritage and Co, Ltd., Hobart and
Launceston,
Commonwealth Distribution:
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder,
Smith and Co., Ltd., Currie
Street, Adelaide, and Branches.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder,
Smith and Co., Ltd., St.
George’s Terrace, Perth, and
Branches. Sub-distributors:
Win. Adams and Co., Ltd.,
Perth,
'
„lp|
in.*'.''
\ '.' r ..Mi?
F !&3
;•>-.! rtf#
SPfS
£«*
llifess
5F5
rsasigi
IMf&fi)
SWS
WES
a *
UVj|
eet&yft
Wfiil
K
g*#
»></!
£a?F JferQi.. ’VS-yc&U’?so^S
,1:^.
«E’fc
J§t%t
*T t
£ ft.
m
y^J>
«.\ '
S 3
■
*•;«■•; 3-
tS
■
* m *
H
£P
i
’rx m
m*
.
rtf:
Itm
vV
■ifeO
1
Hi
|
v>»'
V<&
■
m
■
•4?**
W$M
m
4«M±.
■
mmm
m
i A
li
an
m
*V r '>*-
Ml
m
Hi
>■• •-'.~
««■ ; —.—
.^-SSft^t:i'*;ji-';lb •->. • &ZJ3&IU '*-■*• *t*.* •♦*»*•> *•’ l *-• •' -


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
SOON PARTED.
The fool and his money are soon parted” is as trite a quotation as
could be selected, but it has the disturbing effect of being so true that it
cannot be disregarded.
No financial institution, least of all a Savings Bank, could advocate that
money should be saved only and not spent. It is true that wise spending
is as necessary as wise saving, but it is quite obvious that the saving
must - r»nmo tircr
That is where the widespread service of the Commonwealth Savings Bank
4- It: Provides every facility for the circulation of
money under the easiest and most profitable conditions.
Every Post Office in Australia is an Agency of this Bank, and in every city,
every town every district in the Commonwealth the Savings Service of the
Bank is made available to the people.
iwicmeallb SavingsMof Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
-
Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who otters Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner d
la carte from 1/6. Inclusive tariff from 13/6
per day, or £4/4/- weekly. Special quotations for
sporting bodies, etc. Situated right opposite Spencer
Street Station; no taxi fares; railway porter carries
baggage across if necessary. Please write for
detailed tariff card. Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is
sufficient address.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
THE QUALITY POLISH
KIWI
“Ess”: “The best hand I ever saw at
turnin’ pancakes,” said Jerry, “was Fryin’-
pan Jack. You see, the cake is always a
bit liquidy on top when it’s ready to go over,
an’ most camp cooks make a mess of the
thing when turnin’ it. But Jack used to do
the trick by tossin’ it up so that it somer-
saulted back into the pan. 1 “That’s easy,”
said the Nark. “I. always turn me johnny-
cakes that way.” “Maybe you do,” said
Jerry. "But johnny-cakes ain’t no relation
to pancakes. An’ Fryin’-pan Jack used to
toss ’em up the chimney an’ then run out-
side with the pan an’ catch ’em as they
come down. Just try that, if you’re so
smart.”
❖ Hf * *
“K. de R.”: Our Mrs. Malaprop, about to
leave the district after many years’ residence,
was given a farewell social by her neighbors
and friends, and presented with a mono-
grammed pendant. This highly gratified her,
and she afterwards gave a lively description
of the turnout to her cronies. “And then,”
she concluded, “they gave me a lovely pen-
dulum with my ignitions on it.”
* . * * *
“Frigid”: Some of the dragon lizards in
Queensland’s far west are very handsome
and highly colored. The males especially are
resplendent little fellows. It is with
their splendor that they lure their shy and
much less spectacular sweethearts into their
arms, so .to speak. The male when court-
ing runs hither and thither, displaying his
beautiful colors to the female. One specie
lias a band of bright blue along the middle
of its back, flanked on each side by bright
red, the legs being blue. It looks as if it
were wearing blue velvet overalls and a red
shirt. Another variety • has the whole of
its upper coat a brilliant vermilion, with
broken stripes and, spots of yellow and black.
* * * *
“FY7”: With pain I read in a Sydney
paper that, the stealing of a mob of sheep was
a return to the old “dulling” days. As one
who spent much time in the St. George (Q.)
country when it was famous as the Alma
Mater of the profession, I repudiate any con-
nection of the art of duffing with such a des-
picable creature as the sheep. Duffing was the
art of altering brands on cattle in such wise,
that the original owner could not identify
them. The.word “art” is purposely employed,'
. r wa s f , all that, as expounded and prac-
tised by the old masters. Cattle-duffing is as
far removed from sheep-stealing as expert
forgery is from snow-dropping among subur-
ban .clotheslines. ■
* * * *
m “Tamornie”: We were crossing the Barkly.
Tableland-with a mob from Newcastle Waters
(N.T.) when a fine
brown gelding
joined up with the
loose horses. Next
morning the ' boss
caught and saddled
it. It tightened
up a little when he
mounted, but soon
moved off freely. In
a few days he was
using it for a night
horse, a job for
which only the best
and most reliable
mounts were
chosen. This went
on for about two
weeks, till a tra-
veller, on seeing
the hors e, dis-
played much
interest in it.
After a close
examination of the
almost unreadable
brand he declared
it was a horse
from Winardoo
and a noted out-
law. The boss, a
darn good rider,
mounted again. In
about five seconds
he scrambled to
his feet and spat
out a mouthful of
the tableland,
while the horse gal-
loped on till it was
out of sight. We
never saw or heard
of it again. Did
the knowledge of
the visitor com-
municate itself in
some way to the
animal ? Anyway,
the case was
darned peculiar.
“N. 0.8.”: I’m satisfied there’s something
Hibernian in the Maori blood. Visiting Auck-
land lately, I met my old friend Hori in
Queen-street. “Py korry,” said he joyously,
“I prurry grad to see you. ehoa. How rong
you in Aurkran?” I told him I would honor
the “last, loveliest and loneliest” with my
presence for a week. “You come and see
me then,” he invited. “Where do you live?”
I. asked. “No matter a Got tamn where I
rive, you come and see me, ehoa.”
* * * . ■ *
“Q.W.W.”: “I’ve bin toilin’ ’ard tlireshin’
cocksfoot seed next door to a Scottie’s place,”
growled Fretful Fred, “an’ every day th’
ole boy comes ter watch me, an’ starts to
cough an’ sneeze until ’i s false teeth fly out
inter th seed Ive sifted. Then e wraps em
carefully in_ a ankerclnef, goes , ome an’
washes em in a cup, an’ empties th’ seeds
on th’ bare patches on ’is lawn.” '
* * * *
“Raja”: “Alfred O’Toole” (B. 19/2/’3O)
reminds me of old times when he talks of
TRUE TO FORM.
JASPER TREVASKIS : “What do ’ee think: of ’un, Thomas Henry? Do ’ee think 'e could
win race if I entered ’un?”
THOMAS HENRY NANCARROW : “Wouldn’t chance it, Jasper. Ten to one they’d find ’e
was short weight.”
mutton-birds. In 1902 I .was with the
E. E. A. and C. Tel. Co. at Georgetown (Tas. j
One of the events of the year was the arrival
of the mutton-birders’ fleet from the islands.
The crews, mostly half-castes from King and
Flinders Islands, looked more like buccaneers.
In addition to the casks of salted mutton-
birds piled everywhere tli e rigging was fes-
tooned with strings of fresh birds. These
we bought for 3d. each. Stuffed and baked
(with a large bedroom jug of beer for a bob)
they made a fine feed for hungry colts. The
salted ones we bought by the cask, and the
cost worked out at under 2d. each. One
must be used to them, as they have a
rather rank and fishy taste, but nearly all
our staff ate and enjoyed them.
* * $ *
“Brady’s Lookout”: “When I was in
Basher Regan’s gang in Tassie. which is
rotten with scorpions,” said Bilious Bill,
“one hooks on to me hand
and dives his tail in. I
pulls ’im off and in no time
the pizen was goin’ up me
arm. Regan comes over
when ’e sees the block in the
traffic. ‘Where is ’e?’ ’c
asks when I tells ’im that
I’m bit with a scorpion.
‘Where’s who?’ I says, wild
enough, for I was gettin’ it
somethin’ crool by this time.
‘The corpsekin,’ says Regan,
pokin’ the stones over with
‘is foot and lookin’ about as
if ’e’d lost something. ‘My
troubles where it is,’ I says.
‘ ’Ere ’e is !’ Regan shouts—
‘or one like ’im.’ ’E pinned
the scorpion down with a bit
of wood and cut ’is tail off.
Then ’e opened ’is belly care-
ful with the point of ’is
pocket-knife and scraped
some green-lookin’ stuff out
of ’im. ‘Show us yer ’and,’
’e says, and rubs the green
stuff into where I was bit.
I wouldn’t ’ave believed it,
but ’struth! the pain . that
was tearin’ up me arm
seemed to draw straight
down and out at the fingers.
‘You’re the fourteenth man
I’ve fixed up with that cure,’
said Regan. ‘lf any more
of yous blokes gets bit with
a corpsekin put yer foot on
it till I come.’ ”
“UTU’ - : In Maoriland in the early ’seven-
ties two brothers, Scotsmen and ex-naval
officers, were working a rough block of coun-
try. One morning a swaggie turned up for
breakfast. The cook, who was the only hire-
ling on the place, was away on his annual
bender. On these occasions the cookhouse
was run by the older of the McTodds —a
huge chap, scrupulously clean-shaven 17
stone in weight and chronically addicted to
the kilt. The swaggie had never seen a kilt
and remained silent before the Gargantuan
hasli-slinger. studving him wif-h .nn nWu-hin,,
interest. Breakfast over the cook strod”
through the cook-house door into the opeiU
a pair of enormous knees gleaming an in-
stant in the sun as lie swung off in search
of the axe. McTodd was a commanding
figure on the quarter-deck, hut at the wood-
heap he was simply paralysing. The guest
of the morning meal gave him one nervous
glance and .fled. At the men’s whare at the
next station the wayfarer was questioned.
“Must ha’ stopped at McTodd’s lars’ night?”
“Yairs.” “Cook come back yet?” “Cripes,
yairs! The biggest (awful word) woman I
ever see in my life!”
•A- * $ *
“Left Choke”: In asserting that he ranks
pygmy goose above black duck as a table
delicacy (B. 26/2/’3O), “Kismet” is evidently
of the same mind as the Yorkshire farmer
who liked something he could feel with his
teeth. Further, he asks if I have ever
sampled the “delicious” Torres Strait pigeon.
I have. To compile a ranking list of tough-
CASE SUB JUDICE.
REPORTER : “Can I say that a man was hurt in an
explosion?”
CARETAKER: “No. We don’t know yet — we’ve only found
one of ’is legs so jar!”
ness I would put the big blue Papuan jungle
pigeon (not the goura) first. The pygmy
goose would come second, and then the
magpie T.S. pigeon. Fourth, and a long way
down the course, I would place a solid rubber
motor-lorry tyre that had run about 10,000
miles over concrete roads.
(Continued on page 25.)
NO SENSE OF HUMOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.
Of all the sawny coots I’ve met I ’and the
prize to Jim ;
You d travel all the world before you’d find
the likes of ’im.
To look at ’e was rough as bags, a red an’
airy bloke;
But it w T as this that narked me most —’e
couldn’t see a joke.
I met ’im on a clearin’ job down Bingin-
warry way,
The sort o’ job you work a month to get a
fortnight’s pay.
I took it on for I was down ,to cadgin’ for
me grub,
An’ thought that I could belt the world by
beltin’ into scrub.
We camped together, Jim an’ me. I told
’im tales I knew',
Ot ones they were at which most coves’d
laugh till they were blue.
’E’d look at me without a grin, until ’e’d
make me mad,
An’ drawl, “Well, p’raps I’m pretty dense —
but where’s the joke, me lad ?”
Now' I don’t mind a chap that says “I’ve
eard that one before;
ATy mother told it to me w’en I crawled
around the floor.”
But 'im! The best yarn ever spun, the best
lie ever told
Would only get a yawn from ’im ’an leave
the blighter cold. 1
P. T. F.
HAVE YOU EVER TRIED THIS?
FIRST CAT: “How did you save your life when the man put
you in a hag and threw you off the jetty?”
SECOND DITTO: “Oh, just held my breath till it was low tide and
then walked out.”
I stood enough of this ’ere game to drive
me off my ’ead,
An’ then I caught some bulldog ants an’
put them in ’is bed....
You see that scar beneath my eye; you see
my nose is broke?
Well, I got those there marks from Jim—
’e couldn’t see the joke.”
VICTORIA.


'•a:
«i P
V
*.
W
v
H
H
1
i
Wr
$ 1
r i
There
Is No Teacher
Like Experience
REMEMBER this
when you decide
to purchase a new
tyre. And remember
that out of the teachings of experience
more people, the world over, ride on Goodyear
tyres than on any other make! Could any
finer tribute be paid the quality of Goodyear
Tyres? Yet after all, perhaps the greatest
reason why you should fit Goodyear Tyres
is contained in the long, trouble-free service
you receive as a Goodyear user.
GOO D
}0- 38D


yoiiw
Ruptui'6^
K For complete comfort and
freedom you need Denyer’s
■B Elastic Truss, with its patent
r water-pad. Write for free
pamphlet.
Single, 30/-; Double, 40/
Trusses also made to order.
oc*rve*
&
DENYER BROS.,
Dept. 1, 267 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
(// unable to call, post pour order.')
Consistent' in Excellence Since 1575
1 ii ii ii .I hi
M-A
i’llsn.rWl
i'infjTT,
11
Wi "IT-
mmm.
mm
M
W
Ask for Bols Gin, the very-
old Holland Gin in the STONE
bottle. Drink it as the Hol-
landers do —very little water
and a dash of bitters.
Wt.
'r/K'fc
< a
The
Wool
is
Grown
Shorn
and
Sold
year after year. Its condition, length, quality and
the market for it may vary from time to time. But
under all circumstances this action shows decided
advantages.
SEND THE CLIP TO—
WINGHCOMBE,CARSON
SELLING BROKERS. LTD.
Sydney or Brisbane.
The firm’s active, able work as salesmen is a decisive
force in producing top market values.
R. McD. : The Rev. Oswald Green came
amongst us—the little sawmilling commu-
nity ® an<Jfl y Bay—to spend, as he put it,
the balance of his vacation. There being
or hoarding-house, Old Joe, the saw-
miller, played host, and the kindly old parson
made a lot of friends. When Sunday came
round Joe announced to his employees and
their families that Divine Service would be
held at his house, and the entire population
of the Bay rolled up. The service ran on
the usual lines, till the sermon was reached.
jhe Rev. Oswald smiled at his congrega-
tion. “I have decided to substitute a little
direct talk in place of a sermon,” he said,
and I am taking for my subject a few lines
from a classic, the name of which escapes my
memory. ‘How does the little liver pill know
where your liver lives?’ We have all taken
pills at some period of our lives, yet how
many of us have asked ourselves: ‘What
guides the pill to its destination?’ We make
its task more difficult by swallowing draughts
of water or jam, yet in spite of this it gets
to the appointed place. I am sure the word
TAKING NO CHANCES.
But, Madame, why on earth have you got that cord tied round the bottom of your
skirt?"
"I'm not one o them hussies, and. I bin told you can see people upside-down in that
thing."
pill is merely an abbreviation of pilgrim, a
traveller to dark and inaccessible places; one
who does good and easts out evil. Just as
there are white, brown, pink and black pills,
so are there corresponding colors in pilgrims.
The pill is round in shape, the symbol of a
rolling stone or traveller; so, my dear friends,
next time you take a pill, say to yourselves,
‘I am sending forth a pilgrim, that he may
do good.’ ” And the reverend gent., beaming
happily, sat down. That evening two more
strangers arrived at the Bay. “Have you
seen a stray parson about?” they asked. We
said we had. “Ah, well, if you gents, have
quite finished with him we’ll take him back
to the asylum.” But I’ve heard a lot worse
sermons.
* * * *
“Billy See”: How many bushmen have
seen a rainbow by moonlight? While I was
prospecting east of Kurnalpi (W.A.) years ago
a sharp shower of rain fell at night. Going
out to gather water from the pools I found
a beautiful rainbow showing right across the
moonlit sky. It was less distinct than a
daylight rainbow, but the spectrum colors
were there quite distinguishably.
“Sariba”: Sea currents
are uncanny things. The
skipper of an Australian
liner which crossed the
South Equatorial current
between the Cape of
Good Hope and South
America recently reported
that it was running at
some knots, while the
rest of the sea alongside
was stationary as a river
bank, with motionless
seaweed piled high along
the edge. China Straits,
between Samarai and the
Papuan mainland, some-
times give an analogous
performance. There the
incoming and outgoing
tides run alongside each
other at several knots,
with the result that be-
tween the two a station-
ary bank of water is
piled up several feet
high.
“Gouger”: The new opal-field on the
Grawon (N.S.W.), some 18 miles from Light-
ning Ridge, is very different from the old Ridge
field in its manners. In the days when the
“Three Mile,” “The Flat,” “Long Gully”
and “Cantor’s” were flourishing 900 men
made lively the best “diggers’ ” field in Aus-
tralia for many years past. “Bull” Massey
was boss of the vigilance committee, and a
holy terror to “ratters”—dirty thieves who
would sneak down a lucky digger’s shaft at
night, and, working furiously, dig out hun-
dreds of pounds’ worth of opal while smash-
ing hundreds of pounds’ worth more in their
ruthless haste. Many a digger, with wealth
in sight after 12 months of heart-breaking
labor, lias gone down in the morning to find
his claim ruined. It happened to me once.
In any dispute over claims the whole field
would roll up to the tolling of a deep-toned
bullock bell. Massey, with his huge bare
feet and bull roar, was sole arbiter, enthroned
on the highest dump. His judgments were
never questioned. “Cobar Mary” was a
famous character of those days. She was a
coal-black aboriginal, six feet high and broad
in proportion. She could swear more fluently
in the King’s English than any white man I
have known. “Kelly the Rake” was one of
the lads of that rollicking village, and among
his colleagues were “Scandalous” Graham,
the Wild Colonial Boy,” the “Mad Scotch-
man, ‘Smiling Jim,” “Tommy th’ Loon,”
“Old John,” “Darkie the Navvy,” “Lawyer
Tom” and “The Count.” Our count had a
dinkum claim to liis title, and Tom was a
Gent. One in the long ago.
* * * *
“Jaykay”: Many old miners scattered
throughout Australia will regret the collapse
of Zeehan (Tas.). Rosebery, a few miles
nearer Burnie and on the Emu Bay rail-
way line, has become the centre of electro-
lytic zinc operations on the coast, and that
modern township, a positive housewife’s para-
WHEN STRAWBERRY KICKED.
TEACHER: “What does this line signify, ‘Now breaks the morning pale’?”
KID (in the Cow Country) : “He didn’t leg-rope her, Miss.”
dise because of the remarkably cheap electric
power, has drained Zeehan of its life blood.
One or two little shows are worked spas-
modically at Zeehan, but the past few years
have seen much expensive machinery aban-
doned, and many hopes lost. A few old
hands hang on, trying to get enough for
tucker. Zeehan of to-day is a place of
blackened chimneys in the' middle of ruins,
of abandoned mines and tumbling-down
shafts. There are potholes even in the
main street where the hopeful have pros-
pected.
* * * *
“Moe”: A mystery the white man has not
yet succeeded in solving is the code used by
the natives of New Guinea when sending
messages by drumbeats. Obviously, since the
code is understood throughout the whole
length and breadth of the territory, it is
not based upon any of the innumerable
spoken languages. It must be a highly con-
centrated sort of shorthand, since a wealth
of details concerning some happening will
be sent in a dozen beats. On one occasion
I heard the transmission from village to
village of the story of the seizure of a white
man by a crocodile, his death in the jaws
of the reptile and the subsequent discovery
of his body- No detail was omitted and yet
the time occupied in sending the message
was only a few seconds. Before morning the
whole story was known throughout some
hundreds of square miles.
* # * #
“Lot 13”: Met the last of the bushrangers
the other day. As our car ran round a
bend in the scrub road, we came on a settler’s
home of the real old bushwhacker variety.
Drab and desolate, it personified the melan-
choly of out-back life. A sick man might
lie there and die for lack of help; and on
the heels of the thought two youngsters
raced to the roadside and stopped our car
with upflung hands. Then, while I breathed
a silent thanksgiving that my mate was a
doctor _ and likely to be of use in a pinch,
the grimier of the pair pulled out a note-
book. “Collectin’ fer tli’ Sunday-school
picnic,” he told us, as pat as you please,
though there wasn’t a church or chapel
within 100 miles of the ancestral humpy.
But his bold blue eye dared us to voice out-
doubts. Feeling a couple of unqualified
mugs, we paid up, and judging by the large
crop of entries in that book we weren’t the
only victims that passed that way.
* * * *
“Eureka” : “Have any of you blokes ever
been chased by a whale?” asked Ben, the
Balmoral fisherman, as he turned the flat-
head in the frying-pan. We assured him
that none of us had had such an experience,
so he related his. “Well, believe me if you
like, but I’m a lucky man. to be here to-day.
We were fishing out off Sydney Heads when
a whale that must have been nearly a mile
long made a snap at the boat. We threw all
the empties at him, but he just swallowed
them as if they were prawns. Then we
threw full ones at him with the same result.
Next I threw my old fishing boots at him,
but he just swallowed them, too. Ike Cohen
objected to throwing good boots away, and
in an endeavor to get them he fell over-
boai’d and was swallowed in one gulp. Jim
Watson jumped over to rescue Cohen, and
he too fell a victim. I pulled for the beach
as j.ast as I could and grounded the boat
with the whale so hot in pursuit that he
grounded too. I hurriedly cut him open to
recover the bodies of me mates, and what do
you think I found?” “The beer?” eagerly
asked Thirsty Alec. “Yes,” .said Ben, “and
there was Cohen tryin’ to get Jim to swap
a couple of bottles for my old boots!”
* * * *
“E.S.”: Most of the gates on the sunset
tracks have names begotten from the solitary
graves nearabouts where somebody’s travels
ended. There are graves between, forming
landmarks that travellers know, but the best
remembered are those near gates; there is
generally a little story about each that keeps
the sleeper’s memory green. One is known
as Bikes Gate. Two bicycles were found
propped against the fence, and not far off
the two riders, who had died of thirst.
Another gate is “Stranger’s,” where an un-
known had been bitten by a snake, and in
cutting out the “bite” he had severed a
vein and bled to death. I was travelling
the route in a shanghai, and after crossing
Dead Man’s Greek, came to a barrier which
the driver said was “Nobody’s Gate.” “Why
do they call it that?” I asked. “Nobody’s
died there yet,” he answered. “If you want
to be remembered,” he added, “that’s the
place to peg out.”
* * * *
“De Oeysi”: I ran short of meat the other
day, so went out with the gun to get a
couple of topknot pigeons. Yes, I know
they’re protected. I dropped one with a
broken wing, and as I was chasing her along
the ground her unwounded mate jumped in
between us, and, refusing to make way,
attacked me -when I approached. The plucky
little devil saved his mate. She’s at home
here now with a wing in splints and will
soon rejoin her champion. After this any-
one seeing me shoot at a topknot pigeon
has my permisssion to pat me on the head
with a mallec root.
* * * , *
“K. McG.”: Old Jamesy had never mar-
ried, possibly because he could never find a
woman to look at him twice, or, as most
people said, the expense of it was too much
for his parsimonious soul. Whenever Larry,
the teamster, passed, Jamesy hailed him with
the salutation, “An’ ye’re not married yet,
Larry, thank God?” “Not yet,” said Larry
one day, “but between you and me, Jamesy.
I don’t think I can put in another cold
winter on me own.” “Larry,” said old
Jamesy concernedly, peering at the sun,
“betwane you an’ me, Larry, I think it ud—
it ud be chaper t’ buy a couple iv blankets!”
ij« :Ji i\i $
“Elgie”: One of the first horrors that
Remarque tells of in “All Quiet” is the
heart-breaking squeals of the wounded horses.
As an artilleryman I saw hundreds of horses
wounded, and I’ve never heard one squeal,
no matter how badly wounded. I’ve dis
cussed this point with many Diggers, and
all agree with me. Horses will squeal when
biting and kicking each other on the lines,
but they remain dumb when the h.e. is cut-
ting them to ribbons.
OUR SAVAGE TRIBES,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
, J name d myself after the ostriches of Australia,’
pleaded a man known as the ‘human ostrich,’ who
cllar S e d with causing an obstruction in London
magistrate.” A ’ C they abori ° ines? ’ inquired the
As you sip your London gin, folk,
Do you ever pause to wonder
How may fare yOU r kith-and-kin folk
VY itn the savage tribes down under?
you in your parlor,
Uf that far, forgotten southland
Where the cannibal koala
Rages through the dusty drouthland?
Where the wild rosellas batten
On their murdered fellow-mortals;
Wb( ‘ re the kookaburras fatten
On their kind, and Death’s dread portals
Are for ever widely gaping
T T ,?, or J tk e fruit of bloody combats
With few pioneers escaping
From the cruel tribe of wombats ;
Where the ghostly iguanas,
Stealing down on flocks at water
Wave their ghastly gum-tree banners
As they rush upon the slaughter;
W here the platypussy people,
Slyest of the abo. nations,
Harass home and holy steeple
Of your sore-beset relations?
Do you ever stop to dream you
W<5U may have unhappy cousins
Facing now the fearsome emu,
Falling bravely in their dozens?
Then give thanks, and never more cry
O er your lot while you are free, sirs,
hrom the hellish, haunting w r arcry
Of the aborigine, sirs!
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Youth (19), Vic., desires position as junior sur-
veyor or engineering draughtsman. Technical col-
lege diploma and practical exp.—s2B4.
\oung man (23), station bred, seven years’ exp.
West Darling (N.S.W.), competent all station work,
wants job, with horses preferred. Refs.—s2Bo.
Married couple, N.S.W., one child, wants job town
or country. Wife, trained nurse, desires care of
invalid. Husband, competent car and truck driver,
general farm- or station-hand. Refs. —5299.
Footballer (29), Sydney, played League with M.L.
first-grade teams, wants job any kind, anywhere.
Used to motors, horses, books and navvying.—5297.
Station carpenter wants work on repairs, painting
or concrete work, anywhere.—s2B2.
Experienced nurse, N.S.W., seeks position to travel
with patient.—s29B.
Anglo-Indian, lengthy banking experience, ex-army
officer, Hawkesbury College training, wants light
duties in exchange for keep, city or country.—s2B7.
Qualified accountant and secretary (30), desires
position any State; extensive exp. accounting and
costs. —5270.
Man (40), Sydney, with small capital but no
knowledge mining, wants partner with knowledge
prospecting. Refs, exchanged.—s26l.
Man (22), S.A., can drive tractors, motor-trucks
and horses, but no farm exp., wants job on dairy
farm. —5252.
Englishman (21), N.S.W., 3j years’ dairy-farming
exp., can use carpenters’ tools, own kit, wants job
on cattle station. —5246.
Expert duco-sprayer and finisher, Sydney, wants
work any description, city or suburbs.—s 244.
Mechanic, N.S.W., exp. includes aero-engine repair
work; has worked on station, wants job in New
Guinea. —5219.
B.A. bushworker, galv.-iron tank builder, tree-
feller ; post- rail- slab- and paling-splitter; fencer;
sober, wants job anywhere.—s2ll.
Lady seeks position as companion, nurse or gov-
erness with family travelling to Europe or Africa
not later than Ju1y.—5283.
Young lady (19), Q’land, wants position on sheep
or cattle station. Used to outdoor work. Start in
Aug. Refs. —5207.
Lady (26), N.S.W., Protestant, desires position
as companion. Willing to travel.—s2o9.
Young lady, country N.S.W., office exp., wants
work as companion or help with light domestic
duties. Musical. Refs.—s 243.
Male cook-baker, N.S.W., middle aged, wants job
on station anywhere.—s 234.
To buy “Eyes of Vigilance,” by Furnley Maurice,
and “Such Is Life,” by Tom Collins, first or second
edition. —5290.
To buy “Quartet in C Major” (Haydn, Op. 33,
No. 3), Parts 1 to 4, Edison diamond-disc record,
No. C 80903 —5289.
Purchase or exchange “Wild Notes from Lyre of
a Native Minstrel” (1826) ; also vols. 1 to 10 of
“The Emu.” —5238.
To buy book on hand-made paper flowers. —5226.
To buy Yol. 3, “Pictorial History of England,”
by Craik and MacFarlane (published in 8 vols.,
1849).—5256.
To buy or loan, the “Australian Journal,” April,
1920, to April, 1921. —5258.
To buy “Ultima Thule” and other books by H.
Handel Richardson, first editions; also “Robbery
Under Arms,” 1888.—5222.
Man, Vic., with mail-contracting exp., wishes to
purchase mail run showing fair living, any State.
—5273.
To exchange banjo-mandolin and case (as new),
for copies of “Our Wonderful World,” or offer.
—5290.
Words of verse “Tramping Down from Dubbo in
the Rain,” containing lines “And you think you’re
mighty funny, with your motor-cars and money.”
—5269.
Whereabouts of William Cole or McColl, age
about 42, late of Hayfield-street, Glasgow, Scotland,
one time fireman on Canberra. Resided with people
named Clements, Zeehan (Tas.), 17 years ago.
Brother inquiring.—s2sl.
Whereabouts of Herbert Dale, station-hand, one
time at Mt. Eba, via Kingoonya (S.A.). —5215.
Information Sought.
What are the conditions of station life in
N.S.W.? (1) Is residence provided? (2)
What is the pay for stockmen and rabbiters?
(3) Has a worker to belong to the A.W.U.
to come under State or Federal awards?
—4824.
(1) Where residence and other allowances
or perquisites are found by the employer the
value of same may be deducted from the
earnings up to the amount of 31s. 6d. per
week. (2) £4 2s. per week for all station
hands, without keep, under the Federal pas-
toral award. State awards were abolished
on Dec. 20 last. (3) Yes. It is a condition
of employment.
(1) "Which is the best oil for softening
leather — neatsfoot, cod or sulphonated fish
oil? (2) Is the bran and sulphuric acid
method of tanning effective and how is it
done?— 477s.
(1) All good; but sulphonated fish oils
are most popular in the leather trade to-
day. (2) Tanning experts do not consider the
bran and sulphuric tannage a good durable
method, but it is largely used. Following is
the usual process: Make a bath of water, 1
gal.; bran, lib.; sulphuric acid, lloz.; and
salt,’ lib. Dissolve all together, using suf-
ficient to cover skins. Immerse skins in
bath; when they are soaked soft, handle and
move frequently at intervals for 48 hours,
when they should be cured.
Who was Sheila Macdonald, authoress of
“Sally in Rhodesia” ?— 4870.
She was born on a Central Otago (M.L.)
sheep-run, daughter of the late Scobie Mac-
kenzie, well known in N.Z. politics. She
married Walter Macdonald, son of the late
rector of the Boys’ High School, Dunedin,
and from 1907 to 1912 they lived in Rhodesia.
She is now a widow living in London. The
letters in “Sally in Rhodesia” were written
to Sheila’s mother, in London.
(1) Has a J.P. in N.S.W. the same juris-
diction in a police court as a P.M.? (2)
Can a number of J’s.P. sitting on a police-
court bench, presided over by a P.M. over-
rule a P.M., as in Vic.? (3) What is the
maximum penalty a J.P. or a magistrate
may impose? —soo9.
(1) No, in cases of summary jurisdiction
the hearing must always take place before
two or more Justices, a stipendiary magis-
trate or police magistrate, except where
otherwise provided by Statute. (2) Yes. (3)
The maximum penalty, is prescribed by the
Statute under which the offence comes. There
is no general limitation.
(1) Would it be advisable for my sister
to come from Scotland to Australia in search
of employment? She is a teacher ( M.A.,
Aberdeen Uni.), specialises in French and
maths., has taught in Scotland and France,
and has had experience as a governess? (2)
Where could I nominate her as an assisted
migrant to N.S.W.? —4351.
(1) As a general rule vacancies exist in
the teaching service of the _N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Education for trained teachers of
proved physical fitness. The salaries of
female assistant teachers range from flSl
15s. 4d. to £305 ss. 4d per annum, according
to classification, determined after a proba-
tionary period of at least six months. The
Dept, could give no guarantee of appoint-
ment without a personal interview at the
applicant’s risk and expense. It is possible
that your sister might find early employment
upon arrival, but if her position is secure in
Scotland it would be best if she waited until
the position becomes more stable locally.
(2) Migration Branch, Dept, of Labor and
Industry, George and Argyle streets, Sydney.
How to remove paint from a blue dungaree
overall?— sl22.
Soak the overall in kerosene or turpentine
for a few hours, and then wash in very hot
soapy water, containing a generous allow-
ance of cloudy ammonia. Sponging with
naphtha is helpful before washing.
(1) What is the customs duty on American
and English aeroplanes and parts? (2) Any
condition to be observed when importing? —
5033.
(1) Free under British preferential tariff
and at 10 per cent, under general tariff rate.
(2) The importation of aircraft, whether
assembled or unassembled, is prohibited
unless such aircraft are provided with certi-
ficates of airworthiness issued or validated
by a State which is a party to the Conven-
tion for the Regulation of Aerial Navigation.
Such certificate is not required in the case
of unassembled British aircraft which
comply with British official standards.
(1) What is the customs duty on (a)
American aero, engines and parts; (b) on
British engines and parts? (2) Freight on
box weighing 140 lb. from Chicago ( U.S.A.) ?
(3) Price in Sydney of Bristol “Cherub”
engine, and name of agents here? (4)
Name of any other well-known British engine
under 40 h.p.f (5) Must an aeroplane be
registered if not used commercially? If so,
what is the registration fee, and what is
it based on — weight, horse-power or number
of passengers? —4297.
(1) See answer to 5033 this issue. (2)
The freight, if not exceeding 10ft. cub. meas-
urement, would be about five dollars, pay-
able at port of shipment. (3) No longer-
manufactured. Robert Bryce and Co. Pty.,
Ltd., 482 Collins-street, Melbourne, are Aus-
tralian agents for the Bristol Aeroplane Co.
(4) A. B. C. Scorpion, 35 li.p., manufactured
by A. B. C. Motors, Ltd., Walton-on-Thames,
England. (5) Every aeroplane must be
registered. Don’t know the basis of fees.
Consult the Commonwealth Air Navigation
Regulations—regulations 19 and 22.
(1) What is the fare to England for a
family of seven? (2) Is a family ticket
obtainable at a cheaper rate? (3) What
line is the cheapest? (4) Is it cheaper to
travel by a cargo boat? (5) What is the
best time in the year to g0? —5132.
(1) Third-class fares to England range
from £3B to £5O for single passage. Children
between the ages of 3 and 12 are carried at
half adult fares. (2) No. (3) All asso-
ciated lines charge the same minimum. (4)
No. (5) February, March and April are
favored by Australian passengers so that
they may arrive in England at the beginning
of summer.
My son, aged 16, residing in Vic., wishes
to take up forestry as a profession. (1)
What subjects would he have to study, and
(2) how long would the course of study take?
(3) Are there good prospects for qualified
foresters in Australia? —5214.
(1) Applicant to enter Vic. Forestry ser-
vice must hold leaving or intermediate certi-
ficate or other evidence of having attained
that standard. Must pass examination in
mathematics, English, physics and chemistry
of intermediate standard. (2) Three years
as forest cadet in country station. (3) Yes,
for bright boy. Examinations for vacancies
are competitive. All States and Fed. Govt,
have forest departments.
(1) Could I expect any degree of success
with a baby hydroplane fitted with an 8-h.p.
engine driving an air propeller? (2) Names
of books dealing with small hydroplanes
fitted with air propellers? —slo4.
(1) Yes. An air-screw is as efficient as
a water-screw if correctly designed. Matters
connected with stability due to the high line
of thrust might require special consideration
and would give an added interest to the
experiment. (2) Don’t know of any. Periodi-
cals such as the “Motor Boat” might be
useful.
(1) I want to have a wooden glory-box
made. Is cedar or any other Queensland
wood proof against insects? (2) Is it
possible and practicable to treat ordinary
woods so as to make them insect-proof? —
5109.
(1) Cypress pine ( Callitris glauca and c.
arenosa) is said to be immune fro™ insect
attack when mature wood is used. (2) Yes,
by spraying or soaking with creosote or
naphtha, which is a surer safeguard than
relying on timber of any sort.
Do the averages of the white Leghorn
hens competing in the Hawkesbury College
test indicate that the tests have improved
flock averages? —49l2.
Since the fourteenth test there has been
a marked improvement in the average laying
records in the competition. There is little
doubt that production has improved in the
best farms in the district.
In the case of an athlete weighing list.
going into training for field games, what
is the maximum number of pints of water
he should drink per day—in summer and in
winter? (2) If he does not drink tea, coffee
cocoa or any alcliolic beverages, and does
not habitually eat sweet foods, how many
ounces of plain eating chocolate should he
eat per day to supply his body with the
necessary sugar? (3) What should he add
to a hot bath to remove embrocation from
the pores of his skin? (4) Would the per-
sistent use of boracic powder for general
massage be harmful? —4877.
(1) Depends upon how much he perspires.
The average consumption is about two pints
of water per day. insufficient water causes
loss of weight, so let the scales he your
guide. (2) Athletes during a marathon eat
about two bars of chocolate, but to build the
necessary heat for the body under less strenu-
ous conditions, Jib. to lib. is enough. (3)
Use Castille soap. (4) Yes.
(1) Is a BA. of Melbourne Uni. consid-
ered to have the same status as a BA. of
Sydney Uni.? (2) What arc the matricula-
tion subjects for the arts course at Melbourne
Uni.? (3) Would a matriculation pass for
arts in Sydney admit a student to the faculty
of arts at Melbourne Uni.?- —5073.
(1) Yes. (2) The intermediate certificate
and five leaving subjects, including English,
a language other than English and a branch
of mathematics or of science, passed at not
more than two examinations. (3) Yes.
The flooring of Richmond River pine in
my recently-built house squeaks in many
places. Cause and remedy? —42sB.
Creaking noises in floors are almost invari-
ably caused through the floor boards not
being securely fastened to the joists, either
through insufficient nailing, omission to pro-
perly punch the nails, or unequal shrinkage
in the floor joists. If the nailing is at fault
the remedy is obvious.. If shrunk joists are
the cause pack between the top edge of joist
and under surface of the floor boards.
I propose to grow lavender for sale at
Ballarat (Die.). Best variety of English
lavender? Suitable soil and aspect? What
treatment is necessary to plants and soil?
Is it advisable to sell to florists or to dry-rub
flowers and sell to chemists? —5144.
The best variety to grow is Lavandula
vera or Lavandula officinalis. Almost any
type of soil will do, but it must be well
drained, or the roots will rot and the plant
gradually die out. In many cases it is neces-
sary to drain the area. The position should
be open, but protected from strong winds,
especially hot north ones. The picking
should be carried out in the early morning
and just when the plants come out into
bloom. For commercial purposes it is best
to plant from cuttings, about 9in. to 12in.
between the plants and 2ft. between the
rows, to allow of horse cultivation between,
the rows. Weeds must be kept under con-
trol. The market dlepends on the demand.
The lavender must be cut when it is ready,
and it is probably best to sell as much as
possible to the florists and dry the remainder
in trays in an airy shed, and then dispose
of it in the dry state or made up into articles
such as coathangers, sachets and so on.
Why is it advisable to wind a gramophone
with the motor running? —5194.
With the motor running there is a
lesser tendency to break the spring, there
being a certain amount of give owing to
the gradual release of the spring. When
the motor is stationary there is very little
give and unless the machine is wound slowly
during the last few turns the shock may
break the spring.
(1) Procedure to obtain a short course of
training at a N.S.W. teachers’ college? (2)
Expenses incurred by same? (3) Salary paid
on commencing teaching? —soBs.
(1) Either pass special test in English,
dictation and arithmetic, or pass special
entrance examination. Latter course recom-
mended by Dept, of Education, N.S.W. (2)
No expenses so far as dept, is concerned.
(3) At age 20. £lB5 18s. if employed as
assistant, or £241 17s. 4d. as teacher-in-
charge. At age 21, £229 if employed as
assistant, or £2Bl as teacher-in-charge. Sub-
ject to basic wage alterations.
(1) What is the area of the portion of
South Australia below sea-level? (2) What
is the distance from the southern edge of
the depression to the sea? (3) What is the
nature of the country lying between the
depression and the sea? (4) Is there a
map of Australia clearly marking the depres-
sion ? —4653.
(1) Approximately 4850 sq. miles. (2)
Approximately 200 miles. (3) Dry, sandy,
pastoral country, interspersed by salt lakes
and lagoons. (4) A plan showing the area
is obtainable from the Dept, of Lands,
Adelaide.
(l)Can I run a 00-74-volt dynamo at 100
revolutions with a motor-turbine if the fall
from the reservoir is 100 ft.? (2) What would
be the consumption? —slB9.
(1) Yes. (2) Depends upon the power
output of the dynamo, and the shape, dia-
meter and length of pipe. Approximately
4000 gallons per hour for a 1-h.p. turbine
driving a f-k.w. generator.
To what Scottish clan do the McCrlaughlins
belong?—-5117.
Probably an unusual corruption of Mao-
Laclilan. There is a MacLachlan clan with
its own tartan, and the motto — “Fortis et
fidus” (Brave and faithful).
Brief Answers.
D.R.: (1) None. Department is putting
all casuals off. (2) Register with Labor Bureau.
B.C.: (1) C. E. Waters and Co., 516 Little
Collins-street, Melbourne. (2) Communicate with
Commonwealth Patent Office, 581 Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne... .A.C.: Figures have not been preserved.
The late William Macleod once wrote that costs
allowed The B. in the Atacama case were 600-odd
pounds, that its actual costs were 1100-odd pounds.
. ...M.P.: (1) Start with Woodworth’s “Psychology,”
Collins and Drever’s “Experimental Psychology” and
Mcßae’s “Psychology and Education.” (2) Hankins’
“An Introduction to the Study of Society,” Kroeber’s
“Anthropology,” Dixon’s “The Building of Cultures”
and Myres’ “Dawn of History.” (3) Any leading
bookseller could order them for you. Alliance
Francaise Library, 510 Fraser House, 42 Bridge-
street, Sydney, may be able to help.... K.L.8.: Con-
sult “Clay Modelling and Plaster Casting,” by Paul
N. Hasluck. .. .A.A.: If you have sufficient white
rabbit-skins to make a decent line, they would
probably be worth more than the ordinary skins.
A small number would only realise ordinary market
value.... J.S.A.: (1) The organisation is not now
in existence. (2) Mr. Stuart, “Australian Motor-boat
and Yachting Monthly,” 228 Pitt-street, Sydney, may
be able to help.... J.W.: (1) “The end crowns the
work.” (2) “Let your light shine”... .L.M.: The
Australian market is hardly worth bothering about,
but you might enter the scenario in the Common-
wealth Government Film Competition. Particulars
from Chief Censor, Commonwealth Films Office,
Bligh-street, Sydney.... 11. P.: Sale (Vie.), 1880.
. ...E.8.A.: “Angora Wool Rabbits for Profit in
Aust. and N.Z.,” by Arthur Sainsbury (4s. 6d.),
obtainable from Robertson and Mullens, Melbourne.
. ...K.D.: 9s. 6d A.W.: The Maryvale-Mt.
Edwards (Q.) railway (via Recta) has not been
commenced. The distance from Brisbane to Warwick
would be decreased by 58 miles. . . .G.A.M.: Write to
the Moreland Metal Co., 3 Market-street, Sydney
I'.T.: “Condamine” was the name for a famous
Queensland bell, with a clear, penetrating note.
It was used both for bullocks and horses. The
“Mennicke,” first made by Robert Mennicke, was
similar... .J. 8.8.: (1) When “The Runaway Girl”
was produced at Sydney Theatre Royal on May 3,
1902, the costumes worn were those of the period.
If the opera was revived now, the characters would
be dressed in the costumes of 1930. (2) Alice, for
the “Piccaninny Song,” would be dressed as a boy
—panama hat, colored cotton shirt and pants, black
stockings and white shoes... .W.C.: Write D. K.
Cowlishaw, Box 10, Mosman (N.S.W.) ... . W.L.: The
horse requires a very careful examination by a
veterinary surgeon. It is probable that the heart or
a clot in the blood stream may be causing the
trouble... .A.A.: Dr. Dawson or Dr. Ralph Noble,
both of Sydney.... K.F.: (1) Use a nasal
douche every few hours. (2) Gargle the
throat often with salt and water. (3) Take
a day’s rest in the sunshine. (4) If feverish
go to bed... .A.W.R.: The main symptoms of hook-
worm are: Dirt eating, ground-itch (often between
the toes), severe anaemia and weakness, perversion
of appetite and a dull fish-like 100 k... .T.E.: Gout
and neuritis are quite different. Your ailment is
a matter for personal diagnosis by a medical man.
. ...L.S.L.: Nothing in particular; it is all part
of the disease. Generally there is an evening rise of
temperature and night-sweats and a corresponding
drop in the morning. .. .A.E.8.: (1) If you mean a
cyst of the epididymis, removal is the only certain
cure. It is not serious. (2) Yes. Follow your
doctor’s advice. (3) Possibly. .. .H.F.: Write to
the Health Dept, for injections for hay fever and
for advice, if you cannot afford private fees... .M.S.:
Drugs will not increase your height. Physical culture
can make you stand straighter and will give you
more poise C. J.T.: Write Commissioner of Police,
Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A E. 11.: Fees allowable
£5 ss. for field and £3 3s. for oflice
work W.M.L.: Capt. C. von Mueller, com-
mander of the Emden, was born at Han-
over (Germany) in 1873. He died at Braun-
schweig (Brunswick) in 1923. .. .S.L.: The “Vic
Historical Magazine,” vol. 6, pages 27-30, contains
an account of Liddell and “The Thistle.” Vic.
Public Library probably has a copy. .. .C. 0.: A
permanent measure, providing for summer time being
30 minutes in advance of standard time, was passed
in N.Z. in 1929. . The period of summer time is
from the second Sunday in October until the third
Sunday in March R.E.: The only important
tropical diseases prevalent in Western Samoa, are
uncinariasis (hookworm), frambsesia and filariasis.
J.G.M.: Newspapers published in N.S.W. are
prohibited by law from furnishing details concerning
sweeps conducted outside the State... .M.C.: Letters
addressed care of The Bulletin will reach them
M.E.8.: No agencies here W.H.: Apply District
Staff Officer, Naval Staff Office, Beach-road, Edge-
cliff, Sydney, and ask for free publication “How
to Join the R.A.N.” R.W.P.: The “Australasian
Manufacturers’ Directory” (Price £2 25.), obtain-
able from the “Australasian Manufacturer,” 16
Bond-street, Sydney H.C.M.K.: Bowser as applied
to petrol pumps is derived from the name of the
inventor of the first self-measuring petrol pump,
S. F. Bowser, now chairman of S. F. Bowser and
00. Inc., Fort Wayne, Indiana, U.S.A C.L.0.:
A history of the 15th Battalion has not yet been
written, but a movement is now on foot to prepare
one. Get in touch with J. R. Churchill,
Anzac Club, Brisbane. A history of the
16th Batt. has been published. Copies from
U. Ketterer, Repat. Dept., Perth G.W.:
Communicate with the Deputy Commissioner of Old
Age Pensions, Melbourne J.M.: Sorry, details
furnished are too vague E.A.D.: (1) Y'es, pro-
vided all subjects are taken as part of the school
course. (2) The regulations require as one of the
conditions that each candidate must pass a written
examination in not less than four subjects of his
of her school course... .H.M.: McCathies, Ltd.,
197 Pitt-street, Sydney W. 8.11.: (1) No. They’re
only paid the salary of a Cabinet Minister. (2) A
moratorium is a legal authorisation to postpone pay-
ment. (3) Hitherto it has been applied to mort-
gagors only. Its limitations depend on the statutory
authority W.T.8.: (1) The largest organ in the
world is the Liverpool Cathedral organ. (2) The
Sydney Town Hall organ has five keyboards known
as echo, solo, swell, great and choir. Each has a
compass of five octaves E.S.: A. G. Sainsbury,
Box 1489, P. 0.; R. Williams, 25a Carlton Gore-
road ; E. ’ Fitzgerald, Mt. Albert —all of Auckland,
ML.’ E. Boyers, Highcliffe; J. K. Mooney and Co.,
and R. S. Black, Ltd.—all of Dunedin, M.L
A.H.M.: Write Registrar-General, H.M. General
Register House, Edinburgh, Scotland. A search of
the index of a parish costs Is.; an extract of an
entry, 2s. Id C.M.R.: Caxton Printing Works,
583 \ 'George-street, Sydney. Price 2s A.0.N.: To
eradicate blackberry vines, mix Sib. caustic soda and
lib arsenic and dilute with two gallons water.
Arsenite of soda, ready mixed, can be bought. Use
lib to two gallons water. Apply the solution in
fine spray J.E.L.: Statutory income-tax exemp-
tions allowable are: Federal, £3OO, less £1 for
every £3 by which the net income exceeds £3OO.
State (N.S.W.), £250, less £1 for every £8 by
which the net income exceeds £250. For further
information apply to Taxation Dept., Sydney....
(Many others mailed.)


SIC
THE passive appreciation of the critic—the enthusiastic
rapture of the emotional —each has been won by the new
entertainers which are called radioplayers. Radio-
players are musical instruments perfected after years and
years of research in one of the world’s most advanced lab-
oratories Philips. They reproduce music, ether-flung or from
gramophone records with a fidelity which is almost uncanny.
Finest of the radioplayers is the 2510. When used with a
Philips “ Permagnetic ” Speaker you will hear the most
brilliant reproduction which Philips can give you—the finest
you have ever heard. Your nearest radio dealer will be pleased
to let you HEAR a radioplayer.
If you decide to own a radioplayer we would like to tell you
that the service which is behind it—typically Philips in its
breadth and efficiency—is at your command. The little figure
on the left symbolises this courteous and efficient service.
2510 Radioplayer
With “ Sevenette ” Speaker £46/10/0
With “Permagnetic” Moving Coil Speaker £53/0/0
The 2516 radioplayer is for the reception of nearby stations
and reproduction of phonograph records.
2516 Radioplayer
With " Baby Grand” Speaker £2l/0/0
With “Peter Pan” Speaker £24/0/0
CWe will be pleased to arrange gradual paymentsJ
•HILIPS


Url&ti uteoC twia& ate deunv
VITA-LICK
io mete /tece<sdaty t&a^eo&t/
■ZywsaL IRRIGATION PLANTS
Call for less attention —Operate at lower cost. Proved the finest Complete Installation on the
' market —comprising
Stygugl, OIL ENGINES
Save pounds because they run on Crude Oil
IMPERIAL CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS
IMPERIAL SPRAY SYSTEM.
Numbers now in use.
We are experts on Water Conservation Problems, and will advise you concerning your special
proposition. Special particulars forwarded free.
a. h. McDonald & co. pty., ltd.
SHOWROOMS AND WORKS: 566-574 BRIDGE ROAD, RICHMOND, E.l, VICTORIA
(12 Minutes from City—Take Flinders Street Tram).
Branches at Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
W-McF.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CRPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
Farm Accounts.
Last week we gave the second illustration of how simple transactions are recorded.
At the end we showed how an account is balanced. Now we will further explain how
everyday transactions are recorded so that the books will show the financial position and
farming results correctly.
Referring back to Example 2 in last week’s article, Harrow’s Ledger shows the
following balances: —
H. HARROW, TRIAL BALANCE.
Dr. Or.
| | m. Harrow, Capital Account 11 11 tlouu 0 U
| | Cash | || £400 0 0 ||
IOTJ Bank (Mortgage) | !| 11 600 0 0
j | Land Account | j | 1200 0 0 | j
| || £1600 O 0 || £1000 0 0
The Ledger may be read as follows: Harrow’s capital invested in his farm is £1000.
cash unexpended (balance of cash account) is £400, £600 is owing to the IOTJ Bank
on mortgage, and land to the value of £1200 is owned. In the trial balance the total
debit balances (£1600) equal the total credit balances, so we may assume that every
debit has its corresponding credit.
In due course Harrow gets his new farm into working order, and income and
expenditure have to be recorded. The next illustration is a continuation of Example 2.
When we have worked up to the Ledger we must include the balances of the accounts
already opened, and which are shown in the trial balance above.
EXAMPLE 2 (Continued). —H. Harrow, at the end of the month, finds from his
cheque-book, Diary and other records that the following transactions have taken place:—
Jan. 1 . . Paid cash for fencing . . . . . . . . . . . . £100 0 0
„ 4 Paid cash for plant . . .. . . . . .. . . 50 0 0
„ 4 .. Additional capital brought in, £500 cash . . . . .. 500 0 0
„ 5 Paid cash for livestock . . . . . . . . . . . . 60 0 0
„ 5 Bought livestock on credit from N. Norfolk . . . . . . 800 0 0
„ 18 .. Drew cash for self . . . . . . .'. . . . . 14 0 0
„ 20 .. Drew cheque for petty cash . . . . . . . . . . 5 0 0
„ 21 . . Paid wages—three weeks .. . . . . . . . . 25 0 0
„ 23 .. Received cheque from agent for produce. Proceeds, £45/10/-;
less exes., £5/10/-; net, £40 ,. . . . . . . 40 0 0
„ 25 ,. Drew cash for self .. . . . . .. .. .. 6 0 0
„ 31 .. Petty exes, during the month:—
Postage . . ,. 10 0
Freight . . .. 2 10 0
Packing material 1 10 0 4 10 0
„ „ .. Drew cheque for petty cash .. .. .. .. .. 500
“Petty Cash” is the cash kept in hand for paying items too small to be paid by cheque.
A cheque* is cashed for an amount estimated to cover petty expenses for a week
or thereabouts, Petty Cash Account being debited and Cash Account credited through
the Journal. A note must be kept in the Diary of all payments made out of petty cash,
or, better still, in an ordinary notebook with money columns kept specially for the
purpose. At regular intervals the items of expense should be summarised under suitable
headings—-miscellaneous items can be called General Expenses, and debited to an
account opened in that name. In every case the expense or asset account concerned must
be debited, and Petty Cash Account credited, with the various items of expense.
After all petty expenditure lias been Journalised and posted to the Ledger, the balance
on Petty Cash Account should equal the Petty Cash in hand. If it doesn’t, then some
payments have been made of which a record hasn’t been kept, or money has been
taken from the petty-cash box without authority. When the balance of petty cash in
hand gets low, a fresh cheque is drawn to replenish the petty-cash box.
Observing the rules —debit assets and losses; credit liabilities and profits—
Harrow’s Journal entries are as follows: —
JOURNAL.
Dr. Or.
Jan. | 1 | Improvements Account, Dr. | 5 11 £100 0 o ||
| | To Cash | 2 |! 11 £100 0 0
| j Being pavnient to contractor for fencing.
| j III II
„ | 4 | Plant Account, Dr. | 6 11 50 0 0 11
| j To Cash | 2 J | || 50 0 0
| | B-eing miscellaneous farm plant bought at | ||
Jones’s auction sale.
I I I I! II
„ | „ | Cash, Dr. |2|| 500 0 0 ||
| I To. PI. Harrow, Capital Account j 1 11 11 500 0 0
| | Being additional capital brought in.
i i in ‘ , n
| 5 | Livestock, Dr. | 7 11 860 0 0 11
| To N. Norfolk | 8 11 II 800 0 0
| „ Cash | 2 11 || 60 0 0
| Being purchase of 45 head cattle from Norfolk | | |
on 30 days’ credit and 1 head at auction j | | | |
for cash.
I III II
„ 181 H. Harrow, Drawings, Dr. |9!| 14 0 0 ||
| To Cash | 2 || || 14 0 0
| B-eing drawings in anticipation of profits.
| I II .11
„ 20] Petty Cash Account, Dr. 1 10j | 5 0 0 ||
| To Cash Account | 11
| Being cheque cashed to meet petty expenses. | 11
| II! II
„ 211 Wages Account, Dr. |11|| 25 0 0 ||
| To Cash I 2 11 11 25 0 0
| Being 3 weeks’ accrued wages paid up to date. | | |
| | || ||
„ 231 Cash, Dr. , |2|| 40 0 0 |l
j To Produce Sales j 12 j | || 40 0 0
| Being net proceeds of consignment from 6/1/19.. | ||
I to 15/1/19.. (proceeds, £45/10/-; exes., | 11
| £5/10/-). | || ||
| III 11
„ 1251 H. Harrow, Drawings, Dr. |0|| 6 0 0 ||
" | | To Cash I 2 || || 6 0 0
| | Being: drawings for self in anticipation of profits. | ||
JOURNAL (Continued).
Dr. Cr.
-an. |oi | Oenerai ifixes. (Postage), in-. 1i;;| IT) TT fj
I I „ (Freight), Dr. 1131 £2 10 0 ||
| I „ (Packing), Dr. 1131 1. 10 0 ||
| | To Petty Cash Account 110 | £4 10 0
| j Being petty expenses paid during month out I
of petty cash.
||| ■ I
„ |., | Petty Cash Account, Dr. 10 5 0 0 ||
| | To Cash Account |2 11 11 5 0 0
j | Being cheque drawn to reimburse petty cash. | 11 11
Next week these entries will be shown posted to the Ledger. In the meantime,
practise posting them yourself. The Ledger rulings may be put in in pencil, though
ledger- and journal-ruled foolscap can be bought at most city stationers for about a
shilling a quire.
RICE ON THE ’BIDGEE.
“7346”: Two hundred settlers on the
Murrumbidgee Irrigation Areas stand or
fall by the rice crop this year. The develop-
ment of rice on the areas has been amazing.
About five years ago there were a few
experimental plots. East year production
exceeded the requirements of the Common-
wealth for an average year. Two gigantic
sheds were built, and they paid for them-
selves in one year; the Rice Board got £1
per ton extra for 12,000 tons through being
able to hold until the millers wanted it.
This year 23,000 acres are under rice.
Given a reasonably dry autumn for harvest-
ing a big cheque’ is assured. The rice is
sown in early spring on a well-prepared seed-
bed ; as it germinates, water is allowed on
the fields and increased until a depth of
six inches is reached. This depth is main-
tained until the rice is ripe; then the water
is drained off, and when the ground is dry
the grain is harvested in much the same
wav as wheat.
To everyone’s surprise, ’Bidgee land of the
heavy clay type, previously found useless
for summer crops, is not only the best for
rice, but after the rice stubble is turned in
has proved excellent wheat land. Two of
the difficulties are wet harvesting months
and growth of water-weeds : but the practice
of rice, fallow, wheat, fallow seems to be
highly profitable when judiciously associated
with sheep.
WESTRALIAN WHEAT-FARMING.
“Wescocky” : For a good return on West-
ralian soils intelligent farming is needed.
Fallow, superphosphate, early sowing and
sufficient rainfall are main factors.
I don’t agree with “Goomarin” (B. 5/2/’3O)
about our heavy soils. All things considered,
you can’t beat them in the wheat belt, though
they won’t hold moisture as long as the red
loam.
Selectors of Westralian farms should
always look to the rainfall. That is all
important. And they should avoid too late
sowing. I have seen crops where a week’s
difference in the date of sowing could be
detected by the eye at harvest-time, in the
case of one variety of wheat sown on the
same class of land.
As for super., you need 1501 b. to the acre
of scrub land; then this type of country
will grow a profitable crop. I have seep
wheat sown with 901 b. of super, abandoned
while wheat sown with 1201 b. of super,
yielded eight bushels.
RHODES-GRASS HAY.
“Fysli”; Having sickness in the family, we
had to keep a horse in the stable overnight
and were obliged to buy chaff for it. Tiring
of this, we decided to try making hay of
Rhodes grass, of which we had many acres.
The paddocks being full of stumps, the
grass was cut with a scythe, and when cured
was stored in a large shed. The result was
a big stack of hay that kept the horse well
through the winter.
In our part of Queensland the Rhodes
grass paddocks are a sight for sore eyes, the
grass being higher than the fences. It would
pay farmers well to store some of it. The
grass takes very little curing and does not
heat in the stack. It is not as good as
oats, but it will serve.
DRY-WEATHER JOBS.
“Gundy” : It is a good time to clean out
or enlarge your stock-dam and overhaul the
house-tanks and spouting. Have your fire-
breaks in good order and keep a sharp look-
out for breaks in the wire-netting fences, as
this is the season when bunny gets the
wanderlust. A good time too, to poison and
fumigate the burrows. And don’t neglect
those noxious weeds. Their vitality is now
at its lowest, and a good setback will save
you a lot of toil later on. Carting being-
cheaper and easier when the ground is firm,
you should get farmyard manure taken out
and winter firewood brought in. Also cart
gravel or sand for any contemplated work,
as you may be unable to get at the bed of
the creek or river when the stream rises
again.
Look over your cultivating implements
and harness. Some of the implements you
probably have not seen since harvest-time.
and the blacksmith and harness-maker may
be busy when it rains. If you have any
nondescript or worn-out live stock don’t
eoddle them —put them out of misery and
sell the skins. The carcases may make pig-
feed or baits for fox, dingo and crow.
FIXING UP THE HARNESS.
“Lucerne Flea”: Now’s the time to fix
up the harness which will be in use when
seeding starts. First of all, pick it over.
Any which needs the saddler’s attention
should be put on one side, and taken to him
at the first opportunity. He’s probably
having a slack time at present, and will be
grateful; presently he’ll be rushed with work.
Next get three gallons of clean rain-water,
heat it up until it feels comfortably warm
to the hand, and dissolve a handful of soft
soap in it. Then wash the harness thoroughly,
using an ordinary scrubbing-brush to remove
caked sweat, dirt, etc., and hang it up to
dry. Then put a few sheets of corrugated
iron out in the sun, sheltered from the wind,
and melt up some clean mutton-fat, free
from salt, in an old tub or dish. Make it
warm enough for you to bear your hand in
it without discomfort. Next start to oil the
washed and dried harness with the melted
fat. Give each piece a liberal coating, then
place out on the iron, where the sun’s heat
will soon cause the fat to soak. in.
The oiling finished, clean up all the harness
with a piece of flannel and put away. It
will remain beautifully soft and supple for
12 months.
For any trifling repairs, not worth taking
to the saddler, don’t use rivets. Buy a
saddler’s awl, a packet of saddler’s needles
(ask for “blunts”), a ball of hemp thread
and a lump of beeswax. Drive a nail into
a rail, hold up the first finger of your left
hajid four feet away, and wind some thread
fi’om the nail to your finger and back four
times, making eight strands in all. Cut off
level with the left hand, and by scraping
six inches of the threads at each end lightly
with a knife make them taper off to a fine
point. Then wax the whole thread, twist
tight, and thread a needle on each end. To
stop these needles slipping off, make a
hole through the thread the length of the
needle back from the eye, push the needle
through it point first, and pull straight again.
To sew, grip the leather in a vyce and
push the awl through once. Put a needle
through this hole, draw both ends level, and
pierce another hole 3-16ths of an inch farther
along. Put a needle through from each side,
and pass the right-hand needle over and
under the thread of the left-hand one, as if
you were tying a half of a reef knot, and
pull tight, putting an equal strain on each
thread. This forms the true “lock-stitch.”
Continue piercing holes and sewing to the
end ; then, after making the last lock-stitch,
pass the. needles past each other through the
same hole again, and make a second lock.
This, when pulled tight, means that a knot
has been tied inside the leather, where it is
very unlikely to come undone. Then cut off
the threads close up, and knot the two ends
together ready for the next bit of sewing.
If there’s any fat left in the dish, bring
out all the wooden-handled tools —axes,
shovels, hoes, hayforks—give the wood a
thorough coating of hot fat, and leave the
tools out in the sun until it all soaks in.
Those tools will be a lot easier on your hands,
and their useful life will be trebled.
SAYING THE YOUNG TREES.
“L’Fbu”: There is a tremendous infan-
tile death-rate among trees purchased from
the nursery and planted out on the farm. The
trees may be unsuitable or their demise may
be due to dry spells or other conditions the
farmer cannot control. But one of the com-
monest contributing causes is want of shade.
The natural nursery of a young tree is in
the forest, under the shade and shelter of
the older trees. The nurseryman recognises
this and provision of shade and protection
from winds is as much a routine matter as
the provision of water. Give a little shade
until the tree takes hold —brush or thatch
made secure with wire or even hessian will
serve—and see the difference in the per-
centage of losses.
(Continued on page 31.)


OLD TIME TRAVELLERS
Travelling by Stage Coach had many
attendant dangers and delays. The
modern motorist equipped with
Barnet Glass Tyres now fears
neither!
N /
O®.
nP
»
A
fl
/x
1
w
c
»\
r
w
m
<S9,
<m
1
*
m
*\i
zr
r
C
wU'ViuiM
It
Vi&*sS2
41
a
\\
K
m
M*
<*»
N§
V
I
OJ
Svivaxto
I
asl
5
s-
-1 &
X
RQ : ' iSfev^i
Barnet Glass
Tyres
Tor Endurance- kht> Comfort
RG.15M30


An outstanding'
contribution to the
field of motor-trucK
transportation
V
pipsw
Wa&»»»».V3~«V
"■■■•■
r sj
fcjjjKif £.?' *>»*i~-« T^^v"-»'
StciNMstka
Ml?
4i*l Jfc» v tiCK-*
«?«>•*
WfcSTOt^ -
iW**v ■< v.
ffiSKHMSAriX^V'-^ 4, .«»
aeasi'stirtor- *«*c »*'
WWffefiMK
astmzs&a&zi^
Built to meet a clearly
evidenced need of to-day
Rapid, efficient, low cost transportation, together with
the assurance of uninterrupted service under normal
operating conditions is the logical group of requirements
in any haulage vehicle. Fleetmaster is the result of
close study of motor-truck operation, and was built for
that special need for a lighter vehicle of big truck
stamina. Ask your nearest Republic dealer about
Fleetmaster 11-ton truck.
hi
New South Wales:
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177-185 William Street, Sydney.
Victoria:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114 Franklin Street, Melbourne.
INTER-STATE AGENTS:
Queensland:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency.
(Q’iand), Ltd.,
Creek & Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
South Australia:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia:
Republic Truck Sales Co., Ltd.*
905 Hay Street, Perth.
New Zealand:
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki & Cable Streets,
Wellington.
Factory Representatives: W. A. CROWLE, LTD., Crowle House, York Street, Sydney.


■4
*si
Fits with easy
pliancy
Here’s the smartest and most com-
fortable type of riding boot. . , .built
on a special Abbey last. Lined with
velvety-soft leather, the upper is
shaped to curve so naturally over the
instep that the foot is accommodated
without any strain. Elastic ankle
insets preserve pliancy and snugness
of fit. And the flexible sole 13 made
of the toughest leather.
Order by Post
Narrow, medium and wide fittings are
available in all sizes. 'Specify width
and length, and order, also, a tin of
Abbey Preservative Polish (6d.), or
a compact cleaning outfit (2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF . . 427-
BLACK BOX CALF . . 37/6
Sporting Catalogue post free on request.
ABBEY
(Established over 80 years),
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY
Telegraphic Address: “Abbey Boots,” Sydney.
FPL 168
If any illustration in Tiie Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Sayers
Green
dg
Seal
Remedy
™ ALL STOMACH WORMS
BLACK DISEASE & FLUKE
The One Remedy Cures All.
Contains lee. Carbon Tetrachloride per sce. dose.
900 doses to the gallon; about five sheep treated
for about one penny.
INTER-STATE AGENTS:
New Zealand Loan and Merc. Agency, Rockhampton
N. S. Pixley Brisbane
Dalgety & Co Melbourne
Gollin & Co Adelaide
Gollin & Co Perth
King Lawless, Ltd Auckland, N.Z.
Manufactured by
SAYERS, ALLPORT PROP., LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Glass and Metal Syringes, holding- scc. and acting as
Measure and Drenching Syringe, 10/6, post free.
PAXTON HILL RABBITRIES,
St. Neots, England,
are shipping the world’s best full-pedigreed,
first-quality Angora rabbits for wool-farming
at competitive prices. Bucks and does of our
Grand Diploma and Gold Medal strain now
ready. Cable Address: ST. NEOTS, SIXTY-
FIVE.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
drfg
.THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Officer: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
dg
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 k O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY.
dfg
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak without Notes, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
dfg
THe New CRUMP Booß
TOPDRESSING
For Profit
4th Edition —80 Pages—Advice—Results of Tests, etc.-
Also Articles on Care of Sheep, etc.
CRUMP MACHINERY CO. PTY., LTD.,
12 Carlisle Street, St. Kilda, 5.2.
Victoria.
WRITE
NOW.
MAY’S
FERTILISER SPREADER
Wv* trail'd booklet pouted free on request.
FERTjltfMf
'C'Wa'v'S.,
41.
. '-Hi*.
' *v
* - *'U*V% .
/ ** .UV*
■vJ.K'-'O*
AAw.
Full particulars are obtainable from the
Manufacturers, or any of their Agents.
MANUFACTURED BY
D. & W. CHANDLER LTD.
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY, VICTORIA.
Inter-State Agents.
attdt'atot a xrn .
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Dalgety & Co., Argyle Street, Miller’s Point,
Sydney; Guthridge, Ltd., Parramatta Road,
Camperdown.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
W. Y. Scrutton, 34 North Terrace West,
Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND:
Clark & Fauset, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Eastwood’s Hardware Stores, Murray Street,
Perth.
TASMANIA:
W Hart & Sons Pty., Ltd., Charles Street,
Launceston; J. H. Stutterd, Wynyard; H. C.
Buchanan, 10 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
Frost is an enemy of young trees, too.
Even such hardy things as young gums may
be decimated by a bad night. If the young
tips are burnt out, cut clean back to older
foliage.
Plant trees as early as is safe to do, thus
giving them the longest possible period to
become established before meeting their first
summer in the open. Make temporary drains
if the soil about their feet shows signs of
waterlogging during the first winter.
MORE PIGS.
“Bullswool”: There’s room in Australia
for more pigs—whips of them. There are
only about 1,200,000 in Australia —0.14 per
head of population. Americans familiar
with mighty industries of which the pig is
the foundation will hardly believe you when
you tell them this. Pigs command paying
prices at all stages. They convert waste on
a farm into profit. They’ll clean up dirty
paddocks quicker than anything else.
Woven pig-netting and steel posts will
soon net in a grazing area, and the sows
only want penning up when near farrowing.
Head the mob with a pure-bred boar. Keep
a inote of service dates and don’t leave the
sow out too long—let her get settled down.
And don’t let her get too fat before breeding
starts. Plenty of shade in hot weather is
needed, and water too. If you’ve a dam they
can wallow in all the better. They will
need an ample supply of charcoal also. A
portable shed for grazing areas is ample, but
you must have warm houses with plenty of
litter for the permanent section. Cemented
floors are cold; earth’s better.
The Berkshire and Yorkshire are good all-
round sorts, making a good bacon and pork
cross. The Poland China is a quick maturer
suitable for cool climates; the Tamworth is
another good cross and has a robust con-
stitution. Don’t aim for too< big animals.
Trade needs now favor a rather smaller
carcase than before.
In selling, see they are clean. Have a
loading race and don’t knock them about;
bruised pigs don’t look or kill well.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
I have an allotment of 32 perches fairly
well covered with lantana. What’s the best
way to eradicate it? —-5043.
Provided you are able to secure your land
from trespassing stock the easiest system
to adopt is poisoning by arsenic pentoxide,
full directions for the use of which can be
obtained from the Acting-Secretary, Prickly
pear Land Commission, Brisbane, from
whom the pentoxide is also obtainable.
(1) What is the value of soot as a fertil-
iser? (2) Row, when and in what quan-
tities should it be applied to vegetables and
flowers? The land 1 am using is stiff and
cakes very easily? —so2s.
(1) The fertilising value of soot is due to
small amounts of ammonium compounds
which may be as low as 0.5 p.c., though
2 p.c. to 3 p.c. would be present in good
soot. It is not used as a fertiliser to any
extent in practice. (2) Ten to fifteen
bushels per acre is the usual allowance. In
your case the liberal use of stable manure
supplemented by a fertiliser such as Shir-
ley’s No. 5 would give more satisfactory
results.
What legislative enactments, industrial
awards and the like would a resident of
N.S.W. taking up a pastoral holding in
Q’land need to make himself acquainted
with? —5069.
Diseases in Stock Acts, Brands Act, Dingo
and Marsupial Acts, Rabbit Act, Income
Tax Acts (Federal and State), Workers’
Accommodation Act, selection provisions of
the Land Act, and the following awards:
shearers’, station-hands’, woolclassers’ ex-
perts’ and grinders’ and engine-drivers’.
(1) Does the S.A. Government still issue
special leases and rewards to discoverers
of water on Crown land? If so, under
what conditions? (2) Arc there any areas
vacant where a boring-engineer might'reason-
ably expect to strike water? (3) Do owners
of private properties offer any inducement
to persons to search for water? —5245.
(1) No. (2) The question of offering
unoccupied pastoral areas is under con-
sideration, and intending applicants should
have their names and addresses noted in
the Department of Lands, Adelaide, for
particulars to be forwarded when available.
(3) No, not so - far as we are aware.
I am an immigrant from Britain, and
before leaving I was told I could get assist-
ance from the State Government to enable
me to get a start. I have a small capita l.
(1) Can I get a loan from the N.S.W. Land
Department or State Bank to enable me to
purchase a farm? (2) Addresses of depart-
ments in my district likely to assist?—4sl7.
(1) Unless you are a registered settler
under the Migration Agreement, 1923, which
expired on Dec. 31, 1928, you are not eligible
for assistance under the terms of the’ agree-
ment mentioned. N.S.W. Lands Dept, is
not at the present time making advances
for the purchase of estates except those
which will provide at least five farms. The
department is, however, making available a
number of farms each week suitable for
various classes of farming, and lists will be
forwarded upon request. (2) Crown Land
Agent, Casino; the District Surveyor, Graf-
ton ; or the Department of Lands, Sydney.
I have some nectarine-trees which bore a
fair crop of fruit. When just about ripe they
all withered and died. The leaves of the
tree crinkled up. The trees have had plenty
of water but not overdone. Some marrows
growing near by have developed symptoms of
the leaves dying and curling. What’s the
cause and remedy? —439S.
The shrivelling of the fruits when just
beginning to ripen is a common defect in
some gardens. It is mostly noticed -when
the trees are planted in clay loams overlying
stiff red clays, and more particularly in
districts of limited rainfall where sodium
and magnesium salts tend to concentrate in
the shallow surface layer. The defect has
generally been attributed to an irregular
supply of water during the later part of the
fruit’s development, and the ’remedy lies in
the direction of deeper preparation of the
soil before planting, nourishing the trees
with nitrogenous and pliosphatic. fertilisers
and keeping the soil body occupied by the
roots moist throughout the growth of the
fruit —avoiding feasts and famiues of mois-
ture,
(1) Having raised some pawpaw-trees
from seed, how can I tell which is the male
and which is the female? (2) How to cure
chronic scours in a cow? —4976.
(1) No certain means of determining sex
prior, to flowering. The strongest growing-
plants in a batch of seedlings are generally
males. (2) Chronic scours in a qow pro-
bably due to tuberculosis of the intestines,
but at this time of the year, particularly
after rain, cows are scouring to a large
extent owing- to the fresh new growth of
grass. About 21b. of maize meal finely ground
would tend to correct this, but it is a mis-
take to endeavor to counteract this condition,
particularly if it follows on a dry spell
such as has been experienced in Q'land.
Wait till the grass seeds and hardens, when
the condition may correct itself.
(1) I have leased a farming property
with a frontage to a river and am continually
troubled by fishing and swimming parties,
who disturb my stock and interfere with
the fences. I have been told that because
most of the property is below high-flood-
water mark I cannot prevent the trespass. Is
this so? (2) Prowling dogs chase my cattle
about during the night time. Gan I legally
shoot or poison these dogs? (3) Can I pre-
vent the fishing parties from taking dogs
on to the property? (4) Is a landholder
allowed -to string barbed-wire on the side
of his fence next a road? —5186.
(1) and (3) A landholder with a river
frontage lias the right to exclude trespassers
on his frontage. Higli-flood mark is probably
confused with high-tide mark in the case
of tidal rivers. The Crown is entitled to the
land up to high-tide mark. (2) Any dog
attacking any person or animal may be
destroyed by any person whatsoever, if the
attack be not on premises belonging to or
occupied by the owner or keeper of the dog.
(4) Not oh the side next the rohd.
(1) At what distance from a river must
a well be situated so that a pump may bo
used on the well for irrigation purposes with-
out requiring to be licensed? (2) If this
distance is measured from high-water mark,
how is that mark determined? (3) Would
the minimum distance from the river be
affected by the well being situated in or
near a dry gully opening into the river?
(4) What instruments would be required to
ascertain the vertical height of a hill or
ridge? —so29.
(1), (2) and (3) If a well is considered
by the Water Conservation and Irrigation
Commission to draw its supply from a. river,
it is necessary for the person in occupation
to make an application to the Commission
for a license. (4) A line of levels should
be taken with a dumpy level or similar instru-
ment. A clinometer might be used to obtain
the angle of elevation, and if the horizontal
distance is measured the height may be
calculated.
(1) Where may horse and cattle brands
be registered in Sydney? (2) What is the
registration fee? (3) Cost of branding-iron ?
—5090.
(1) At the office of the Registrar of
Brands, 56 Bridge-street. (2) Minimum fee
10s., increasing according to the number of
stock. (3) About 255.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Te Aroha”: A good home-made drench
for Strawberry consists of a tablespoon of
ground ginger, a half-cup treacle, 16 packets
Epsom salts, a dessertspoon of common
salt. Dissolve in half-gallon hot water.
“Korumburra”: When weaning young pigs
in the winter, I give them a little dry
pollard in a trough or on a clean floor, put-
ting the drink in another trough a few feet
away. They lick up the dry pollard and
then run over for a gargle. In this way
they are kept nice and dry. If the pollard is
mixed with the milk, they fight, and get
wet and draggled, and do no good.
“Tamornie”: When cutting chaff, saye a
quantity of the bands from the sheaves:
their uses are legion. When stocking behind
a binder with a faulty knotter, two bands
can be knotted together and. the loose sheaf
tied securely in a fraction of the time
required to twist and tie with a band madb
from the hay. Moreover, sheaves tied with
the old bands never become loose and are
better to handle when stacking.
“Bill R.” : When preparing the meat-cask,
make a brine of. six ounces of salt, one
pound of sugar, and five ounces of saltpetre
to ;<four gallons of water. Boil the ’ whole
together; then ■ cool off before pouring over
the meat.
“J.G.”.: Two pounds of common salt and
one pound’ of caustic soda boiled together
in four gallons of water and applied boil-
ing- hot will kill any weed. Be careful not
to let. the soda come, in contact with the
skin. ‘ ‘ \ '
“Deejay”: Stale bread makes the best
fattening food for ducks. Soak well, adding-
some chaffed greenstuff, and dry off with a
little meal.
“Doo Kee” : To rid sprouted potato seed
of aphis, dip in a solution of soapy water.
This is cheap and effective and won’t harm
the shoot.
“Disc Harrow”: Next time a new disc
is wanted for a spray-nozzle, try a halfpenny
or penny. Most nozzles fit one of the two
exactly, and any drill will make the small
hole necessary.
“Tamornie”: Tartar emetic is not always
effective for destroying ants (B. 26/2/’3O) ;
I have known them eat the honey and leave
the powder. Borax-and-sugar paste is about
as good as anything and safe to use.
“V.J.S.” : The beanfly can be tricked. He
prefers cowpeas. Plant them between French
beans and save 75 per cent.
“Disc Harrow”: Before carting last year’s
cases to the orchard examine them for cod-
lin-moth. Stray grubs are often found
between the joints of the wood and in the
corners, and it is asking for trouble to fill
them up with clean new-season’s crop. A
tliin-bladed knife is the best destroyer.
“C.H.P.”: It is easy to bend a small pipe
Just fill it with sand, put. it between two
posts or in a mortised hole and pull it
(never hammer it) round till the desired
bend has been gained. The sand keeps the
round shape perfect.


After all theres only one‘Australia
U ,1
!
- S 3M4
& M
o
o
J
dfg
F-’OR your convenience “The Australia” is
set in the very centre of things. A quiet
and luxurious oasis from which you can, at
your pleasure, step forth into the busy whirl
of office, shop and theatre.
Single Room, with breakfast, from 15]- 'per day.
Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel,” Sydney. Illustrated folder on request.
Capital paid-up,
£422,100.
mmmm
The Hotel of the
Commonwealth,
Sydney.
SMOKE-OH!
John Foley (27) threw part of the contents of
the small-goods shop at its proprietor.”— “Sun.”
Gave the proprietor the blut-wurst of the
argument,\ as it were.
* *
“ ‘Journey’s End’ is a show entirely without
women.”
Clearly it is no talkie.
* *
Restaurant maxim: A little more water
and a little more soup makes a little more
soup.
* #
UNIQUE.
My car's unique. It's not its line —
I don’t praise that a little hit —
Or engine, chassis or design;
And yet there’s none to equal mine.
You see, I paid spot cash for it!
* *
“The spirit of drama is starved in the commercial
theatre.”
Still, the ghost walks.
* *
Henry had just arrived in Sydney after
eight years in London. “And how is Vera?”
he asked. “Is she still single?” “Single!”
echoed Augustus. “She’s married, sir, mar-
ried to me. Furthermore, the lady has births
to her credit.”
THE COMFORTER.
“Billy says he just adores me. D’you think I ought to believe
him?"
“Of course, dear! Why should he treat you differently from
every other girl?"
“Jim Alt, who died on Tuesday, boasted to have
marched in every Eight Hour procession for 50
years.”— “Sun.”
And now Death has called ’Alt.
* *
THE REAL BENEFACTOR.
“He broke all records, did old Dan!”
Cried Smith. In carping tones
Brown sneered, “My cheers are for the man
Who breaks all gramophones.”
¥ *
THE BUSY HOUSEWIFE.
She wakes early, and immediately instructs
her husband to get morning tea, wash up
last night’s dinner things and prepare break-
fast. Then, bursting with energy, she has
breakfast, briskly switches on the electric
iron, and tells the children to iron what
they want for themselves, after the eldest has
fixed up the dress she intends to wear to
town. With unabated activity she sees that
the children wash up the breakfast things
before they leave for school, gives the char-
woman her orders, and by noon is in town.
She hurries to her club, discusses women’s
grievances over a cocktail, lunches, rests for
a couple of hours at a talkie, and then
bustles home to find all too often that no one
is at work on the evening meal. In such
circumstances she waits till her lazy husband
returns, then hands him the tin-opener, and
the repast begins. Still teeming with energy,
she superintends while he piles the washing
in the sink, all ready for the morning, and
when he lias finished explains to him wliat
slaves women are, pointing out that whilst
a husband has nothing to do but go to
town and enjoy himself the wife must work
her fingers to the bone keeping him and the
children comfortable.
P. P.
* *
VIRTUE’S PROTEST.
I feel so shy , as on my way I go;
These flappers’ skirts are really a disgrace.
So much is left uncovered down hclow,
I simply cannot look them in the face.
* #
“The training of the London police is so thorough
that they are even required to master the art of
blowing their whistles.”—' “Argus.”
Of course, no training is required in the
art of wetting them.
THE CONVERSATIONAL STAND-BY.
The weather, whether hot or cold, is made,
it seems, to try one, yet gives to any man
who’s bold, and even to a shy one, a chance
to break the verbal ice and start a conver-
sation with any girl he thinks is nice— l
friend, stranger or relation.
You start off with a “Pleasant day!” are
met with “Bit too windy” ; or “Be a storm
to-night,” you’ll say—“a devil of a shindy !”
while she (or he) may make reply, a wise
gaze upward lifting: “It does look like a
rainy sky, but still—the wind is shifting.”
From openings like this you pass to
an exchange of notions on how to read the
weather-glass or ride out storms on oceans;
and as you men-
tion some far
spot, or gale that
you saw’ brew’
there, you’ll chance
upon, as like as
not, some mutual
pal you knew
there.
The weather is
a friendly theme of
which all humans
prattle. At Peace
Conventions it’s
supreme; with
armies set for
battle; when
people meet of
princely blood or
in some village
humble. And yet
the theme would
be a dud without
the chance to
grumble!
So if the wea-
ther’s wet or not
we want to re-ar-
range it: we snort
“It’s cold!” or
“Too damned hot!”
and wish that we
could change it.
It justifies us
dodging work, and
is a plea for drink-
ing, an argument
to help us shirk
the calls from
w’hich we’re shrink-
ing ; our irony it
helps to air or
else our resigna-
tion ; but, anyway, it’s always there—a
theme of conversation that’s useful every-
where we go to talk about together: the
only subject that we know that weathers
every weather.
Percy Pawnticket.
* *
Onward and upward we must climb
And never stop to fret or frown,
For footprints on the sands of time
Were never made by sitting down.
PRESS CUTTINGS.
“Gertie Giddy, the brilliant child cornet-player,
has broken down in health and is confined to her
home. Her turn at the Cinema Palace is cancelled
indefinitely. Gertie’s admirers, who are legion, are
overcome with grief at her misfortune, which is so
emphatically theirs as well.”
Friend of Giddy family:—
“Thank Heaven that blasted kid can’t keep
us awake every night for a while. Mark
my words, if they let her start again she’ll
be murdered.”
Same friend (to tabloid press inter-
viewer) :
“Yes, the street isn’t the same since our
little artist no longer charms us. Gloom,
utter gloom, enshrouds it. No sweet music
is heard now —only the choking sobs of a
heartbroken mother. God grant the angel
child may have an early recovery is the
heartfelt wish of her myriad friends.”
J. Y. D.
¥ *
It’s when we have no change in our
pockets that we notice it in our friends’ faces.
# *
“Perhaps George Lambert’s beard helps to sell
his pictures.”— “Sun.”
The beard of the profit!
"At last it is finished. And now, Miss Higgins, as you’ve been
my silent partner in this work, the honor is yours—give it
a name!”
A SPORTSMAN’S NIGHTMARE.
The greens of the Sydney Cricket Ground
were looking their best when Jack Crawford
and Walter Lindrum cantered past the stands
to swim against the attack of Hurwood and
Grimmett. The latter’s first delivery was
volleyed to the fence by Crawford, who con-
tinued to putt accurately to all parts of
the fairways and soon brought his score to
40—love. Meanwhile Lindrum had not
been idle. Steadying his mount at the turn
(he was piloting the favorite), he negotiated
a cannon off the pickets which brought his
tally for the session to 3079 (in play). His
best breaks were 1127, 490 and the referee’s
jaw.
Cratvford’s 18-footer was overturned by a
beautiful southerly—a complete ace. Edi-
onis was next. He
got a headlock on
the umpire, and a
Boston - crab o n
point, caught and
kindly donated by
the N. S. Wales
Angl e r s’ Club.
Then Grimmett
outed him with a
smashing left hook.
Joe Kirkwood took
his cue and beat-
bogey for the first
over.
At this stage the
game was held up
whilst the 12th
man brought more
chalk for Lind-
rum’s surfboard.
The fielding had
been good, so far,
Jim Hackett being
the best of a bril-
liant lot.
On the resump-
tion of play Kirk-
wood took a mid-
iron from his creel
and caused a sen-
sation by sinking
the ivory in the
poker-machine in
one, at the same
time shouting
“Fore.” To Joe’fj
chagrin “N i c k”
Winter cleared the pickets with a hop, step
and jump and caught the club in mid-air.
So much for the new steel shafts!
Woodfull now declared his innings closed
on the ground that the match was limited
to a fortnight. While the captain was occu-
pied closing up Busch snapped up his pad-
lock and passed to Tom Gorman, who made
for the bar. Rain began to fall heavily, so
Gorman transferred to Noel Ryan, who,
employing an easy crawl stroke, swam up the
clock tower with it. Officials sent for Appo
to chop the tower down, which he did, the
tree falling on the Test selectors and burying
them in the ruins.
The Amateur Federation promptly de-
clared all the players professionals, as the
captains had tossed with a threepenny bit,
and disqualified every female ludo champion
in the northern suburbs for life. As an
appeal is pending we make no comment save,
“Serve ’em damn well right.”
Stumps drawn.
Cedilla.
* *
AUSTRALIA.
Some Rough Notes.
Australia is entirely surrounded by water.
It is also entirely surrounded by money-
lenders, but for reasons of State the latter
are not shown on
the atlas.
It is divided
into six States,
each of which has
a capital. This
does not mean, un-
fortunately, that
each city has capi-
tal. Capital comes
to our capital
cities from the
English capi-
tal, and imme-
diately leaves for
one of the Ameri-
can capitals which
provide capital
cars, movies, etc.
Some hold that this
kind of thing
should be made a
capital offence.
There are 12
fairly large rivers
in Australia. Com-
munists want to
construct a thir-
teenth (the River
of Blood), to run
the whole width of
the continent. The
only thing that dis-
courages them is
the possibility that
. _ their veins may
supply a good deal of the fluid required for
the proposed work.
Steamships visit Australia from all parts
ot the world. They bring the products and
manufactures of their respective countries
and take away lOU’s.
Steamships also maintain an inter-State
trade. Cargo is carried when not black—
i.e., during about 3 weeks in every 52.
There are many well-defined roads in Aus-
tralia, known as inroads because of the
holes they have made in the nation’s loan
money.
Duck-shooting is popular, with the result
that the country teems with lame ducks in
the season, which is all the year round.
There are numbers of these unfortunate birds
at Canberra just now. For reasons of
SHOW GIRL.
HAMLET: “Showing anywhere yet, dearie?"
OPHELIA: “Don’t mention it. By the state of my wardrobe I’ll
soon be showing everywhere."
State, the authorities are unwilling to deal
with those responsible for their sad plight.
H. S.
* #
“He declined the steak because a boiled onion
was served with it.” — “News.”
Off his onion, apparently.
AUSTRALIAN ART.
June lives through hurtling days and weeks
At swimming haths and surfing beaches:
I he summer sun has burnt her cheeks
-i he golden brown of ripened peaches.
no has, by practising always
■ The art of Charlton and Weismuller,
Become a picture beyond praise —
A glowing Aussie water-color.


san francisco:
NEW YORK
:i&
You can choose from many
different railway routes across
America from San Francisco
En route to England
see
AMERICA!
Your shortest route
is across the United States
Going to England by way of San
Francisco and New Y ork, you can see
much of the United States and arrive
in London just 29 days out of Syd-
ney! With only a few days longer in
America, you can visit Los Angeles
and many famous places. Every de-
tail of your journey can be settled
before you start and there’s only one
ticket to buy.
You’ll find railway travel in the
United States amazingly pleasant and
easy. You can cross the continent from
San Francisco to New York with
only one change of trains. Railway
fares are much less than you think.
Every step of your journey on this
route will be delightful. The climate
is moderate all the way. On your
Matson liner to San Francisco, you
have motion pictures, orchestra, deck
sports, swimming pool. Your Matson
ship makes daylight stops at Fiji,
Samoa, Hawaii. Ask for free illus-
trated literature with map showing
what you can see en route to Eng-
land. Call on or write:
The Oceanic Steamship Company,
MATSON LINE,
Dept. Ml, 12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 87981.
McILWRAITH MeEACHARN, LTD.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Fremantle, Albany.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Fremantle, Albany.
DALGETY & CO., LTD., Brisbane & Queensland ports.
P>S?:» :
six. SS*
>**
ffigp*:*.#'
ill ’' ; '
aSgpri **■>
lllix*:> >
mt
i*
\i
WM
«x»
m
m
m
<<«
wc
San Francisco, America’s most important Pacific port, crowns the hills that overlook
beautiful San Francisco Bay. This fascinating city is the terminus of the Matson
Line and of important transcontinental railways
wagg
MU
. •'
A stop of only a few hours in your trip across
America ivill enable you to see Niagara Falls
wmtmm
Ml
m
m
mm
ma
omm
A
M
U
mm#
::• ' \> *K ' C 1
||
m
< . :•
New York’s amazing skyscrapers are right on
your route to England. This view was taken
from the 67th floor of the Chrysler building
im
Mil Mil!
:•: « *
m
Many Australians visit Washington, the national
capital, to see the classic Capitol and other
famous buildings. Washington is only five hours
from New York
m
Only in California do you find the Big Trees,
largest of all living things. This grove (Muir
Woods) is only two hours from San Francisco
on the slopes of Mt. Tamalpais


■ I
piiSlP 9
I mm
■i ■ mi
a
mam m
'
SS
* >
% '
m ftil
111111
*■ •<-
■ 1
■
..
11
ini
1 :■■■
IS
C 56
a
\° nS r eAVe^
itig re , t\v ot _ u^aC'
££s*»
C&» E ® a °d
tViose f oirC A m atv-
ste nd* aW
dejf 4 ** *e P*f
<\ e A us et *
BaW etV
Clyde Batteries for Cars, Radio and Home
Lighting are made by THE CLYDE EN
GINEERING CO., LTD., GRANVILLE,
N.S.W., largest manufacturers of storage
batteries in Australia. Obtainable from
all garages and radio dealers.
dg dfg
FOR CARS, RADIO & HOME LIGHTING
Clyde Radio
Battery.
BATTERY SALES AND
SERVICE DIVISION,
106-110 Goulbum Street,
Sydney.
Clyde Home
Lighting
Battery.
INTER-STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
QUEENSLAND: The Clyde Engineer- SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Cornell,
ing Co., Ltd., Brisbane. Limited, Adelaide.
VICTORIA: The Clyde Engineering WEST. AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun and
Co., Ltd., Melbourne. Johnstone (W.A.), Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA: W. & G. Gonders Pty., Ltd., Launceston and Hobart
50-ton
m
c
m
N
Mi
m
VICTORIANS-
GIVE THE SAME
ANSWER AS YOUR
COUNTRYMEN
HAVE GIVEN/
” Law is recognised the world over
as the biggest legislative farce ever
enacted. It is derided, flouted and ignored
in its American home. Apart from America
and Finland it has been thrown out of
every country which has tried it.
Every other Australian State has definitely
rejected the “dry law” proposal. Victoria can*
not AFFORD an attempt at Prohibition;
Victoria does not NEED Prohibition,
Victoria will not TOLERATE Prohibition.
KEEP OUT PROHIBITION
sr
Authorized by J. J.' LISTON, The Block. Collins St.. Melbourno


IF
IT ISN’T A
MAGIWOi
IT ISN’T A
DYNAMIC J
“Your Radio pleasure depends
on the Speaker”
40%
Moderately Priced
Unequalled in Tone
Demonstration will Convince You.
Obtainable All Radio Dealers
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS IN ALL STATES.
dg
ENGLAND!
WHAT ABOUT
A CAR!
And why not? You know
how much you’d enjoy a
car—do you know how little
it need cost? We have a
plan called the Guaranteed
Repurchase Plan this is
how it works. Let us know
when you’re coming over
and the make and type of
car you prefer. We will
send you a list of cars with
prices and we will guarantee
to repurchase the car you
choose, at a mutually agreed
price before you order . Once
that’s arranged you’ve no
more to do. The car will
meet you on landing with
all formalities fixed by us.
From then on the car is
yours to use how, when and
where you like until your
return, when we buy back
the car at the agreed price.
Apart from the pleasure of
owning the car, the bare cost
is far cheaper than hiring —
and you risk no loss at re-
sale. Our service includes all
you want done and more: for
example, you may have the
use of a uniformed driver
free for three days—overseas
visitors have been glad of
this. May we send you full
particulars of our service?
They await your enquiry.
AUTO AUCTIONS
BURLINGTON GARDENS Opp. Burlington Arcade
OLD BOND ST. LONDON W.I
World Distributors of the Blackburn Bluebird Light Aeroplane—side by side seating .
Poverty
Point
“Cauboy”: Professional musicians in Mel-
bourne know all about the influence of the
talkies. Over 100 are out of work and there
will be more when the Capitol and other
theatres fulfil their idea of doing away with
orchestras. The plucky attempt to create a
public for music not out of a can resulted
in 12 concerts at the Auditorium, for each
of which the performers got 7d.
“Craiser” : Louis Graveure, the American
singer, who was promised for the middle of
the year, lias been postponed. One reason
may be the remarkable things that are
happening to his vocal organ. He made a
recent appearance in New York as a bari-
tone. A few nights later he sang from the
same platform in a beautiful tenor. The
chances of him becoming a basso profundo
on the voyage over may have something to
do with the postponement.
“Trevdee”: On a recent round of the few
Melbourne theatres where “liveys” are still
to be seen and heard, I made the curious
discovery that the Tivoli (where George
Wallace and Co. are in action) was the
only house where the female of the species
didn’t markedly outnumber the male amongst
the audience. On the other hand, at the
talkie shows it seems to be about fifty-fifty.
“Hamfat”: Amongst the mummers who
go with Frank Neil and his £47,000 from
this land of tyranny and amusement taxes
to South Africa is, presumably, Jefferson
Tait, an old stager who has travelled around
Australasia many times. Although really
he is rather lugubrious, 1 shall miss many
a laugh given by his inability to wear a
hat and by his misplaced “aitches.” How-
ever deadly a show was, there was always
a delightful possibility of Jefferson’s hat
falling off at the wrong moment; in fact,
the only time Jeff’s headgear clung with any
determination to his head was when he was
a noble lord or something similar in a society
lady’s drawing-room. Jeff was always the
genuine laughraiser.
“C.W.”: “L.II.P.’s” claim (B. 5/3/’2O)
that Gaston Mervale was the original Talley-
rand in “A Royal Divorce” in Australia
cannot be allowed. That distinction belongs
to W. F. Hawtrey. Mervale’s share in the
drama was a generally fine, though at times
stagey, presentation of the Marquis de Beau-
mont.
“Lao-dah”: The papers have been pictur-
ing “Tiny,” a gigantic Chinaman who left
Shanghai in January to appear in vaude-
ville in Australia. I know Tiny. At 32 he
was of normal build, but then a growth gland
appeared in his neck, according to the doc-
tors, and he shot up in four years to seven
feet, with proportionate horizontal develop-
ment. His appetite became tremendous, and
he immigrated to Shanghai, as the country
could not support him. There an English
police chief spotted him, gave him a meal
at which he ate for one and a half hours
and recruited him for the police force. One
of “Tiny’s” jobs was to guard Mary Pick-
ford and Doug. Fairbanks during their
Shanghai visit, and he did it by sweeping out
of their path anybody that approached them.
The offender generally found himself 15ft.
from where he started.
“Ashmead”: “People don’t want flesh-and-
blood shows,” Benjamin Fuller is reported
as saying, along with regrets that he must
needs “bow to the public demand for talkies
and tinned music.” What bilge! If any-
body tells me I won’t have flesh-and-blood
shows and will have talkies I’ll punch a
head. There are tens of thousands like
myself who have to take what Yank inves-
tors have cornered the market to supply, or
go without. Very few Australians really
desire (as suggested) to be slaves to the
Hollywood kaisers. Of course, Uncle Sam’s
job as a business man is to issue propaganda
to kid the Australian public that it simply
loves the talkies and will have nothing else.
But the Australian theatre showman has a
front-line position if he dares to use it.
“Cine Ma”: “Disraeli,” now in Australia,
ran for 20 weeks at the Central Theatre,
N’York. The longest previous run for any
picture was 12 weeks. George Arliss was
mainly responsible.
“Craiser”: General Chauvel is taking a
personal interest in the Australian picture
“The Light Horse in Palestine,” to be shot
in Sydney. ITis nephew, Jack, is producing,
and the assistance of the military forces has
been granted. Of the 2000 mounted men co
take part in the film many belonged to the
Palestine contingent.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: H'al Carleton, late of
the Prince Edward, started a Roxy Theatre
at Parramatta, and Ben Fuller imme-
diately saw some magic in the name,
which caused him to convert what was plain
Fullers’ Theatre into still another Roxy and
to threaten to put a chain of Roxies around
Australia and Maoriland. Both Carleton
and a gentleman in Noo Yark, who claims
a sort of copyright in the title, are objecting,
and there is some talk of legal action. So
far nobody has explained what “Roxy”
means; perhaps that adds to its value as a
name.
“Boobaroo”: The latest travelling show
consists of a movie theatre on wheels. One
such truck, fitted with projection and noise
apparatus, is touring Victorian country parts
under the Hoyt banner. The day is very
near when the residents of Woop Woop will
only have to go as far as iCasey’s paddock
to see and hear the latest talkies. Lord help
the touring barnstormers, if there are any
left!
“C. 8.”: Scotsmen are noting with regret
one change in Allan Wilkie’s Shylock. He
no longer asks for “ma poun’ o’ fieesh,” but
makes the noble Hebrew speak like any
Sassenach.
“T.P.”: Will Elder has recited “The Grand
Bumper Degree” for the last time. In the
railway service for a half-century, he devoted
most of his leisure to entertainment work
for charity and turns at smoke socials. He
was the best-known reciter and amateur
comedian in Victoria, and could switch from
knockabout farce to his “How We Beat
the Favorite’’ with rare facility.
“Cucliulain”: I still recall the anti-climax
to a Melba concert in Glen Innes (N.S.W.)
30-odd years ago. The hall was packed to
hear John Lemmone as well as the prima
donna. In the front row was an intent
listener, an old Scottish shepherd who
had come in from the hills for a treat. He
sat spellbound on the edge of his seat, hand
behind ear, his face radiant with pleasure
while Lemmone drew the clearest and finest
notes from his flute. Suddenly the dreamy
melody was rudely shattered by a tremendous
roof-lifting sneeze from old Jamie. The old
man was covered with confusion at his
lapse. But Lemmone allowed his temperament
full sway—he walked off the platform and
refused to play again.
“Eureka”: My first introduction to the
talkies was at Candelo, a little hamlet on the
far South Coast of N.S.W. in 1913, where a
travelling show boldly advertised “The
first talking pictures ever screened in Aus-
tralia.” It was a series of lantern slides
illustrating scenes from “Young Lochinvar,”
and as they were flashed on the screen a
man recited the verses from behind the
screen. The cow-cockies thought it marvel-
lous. The admission charges, by the way,
were 35., 4s. and ss.
“Trevdee”: The funniest “flick” I ever
saw was ’way back in 1912, at a bush
Mechanics’ Hall in northern Vic. Titled as
“The Melbourne Cup,” it started with the
finish of the race, the horses running back-
wards from the winning-post. Just as they
reached the abattoirs corner —still in reverse
—there was a black-out, and the next thing
we saw was three miners digging for gold,
followed by an express train getting wrecked.
The picture, which was received with enthu-
siasm, finished with all the horses returning
to scale, but only after two more black-outs
and a deafening explosion from the pro-
jection table.
“Nederlanden”: A Dutch meisje, Nel
Stant, has the distinction of being the first
woman to appear in the stage version of
“Journey’s End.” At a recent performance
at the Hague she took the part of Raleigh.
“Ex-Englishman”: As a minor but remark-
able coincidence, take the rather unexpected
success at Sydney Opera House of “My
Old Dutch” at the very moment when
Maurice Chevalier is taking the town by
storm. For the play’s title, with something
of its theme, belongs to another Chevalier,
Albert, whose Cockney humor plus senti-
ment enraptured London in the ’eighties
and added to the language this fresh way
of indicating one’s wife.
“C.Y.”: London critic James Agate is full
of praise of Australian Eve Gray. The little
artist has made good, both in comedy and
pictures, and may now be styled a top-liner
in the Big Smoke.
“Caesar’s Ghost” : Dave Dalzell, one of the
few remaining Australian actors of the
old school, was killed by a tram in William-
street, Sydney, the other day. In his 65
years this capital utility man has knocked
about most corners of Australia.
“T.P.”: Galli-Curci evidently isn’t brows-
ing round the studios of Hollywood yet (B.
5/3/’3O). A quite recent cable mentions the
lady being hissed in Buda Pesth by “an audi-
ence of vandals and savages” who wouldn’t
make allowances for her having a cold. Inci-
dentally, it is mentioned that the seats
ranged from £3 to 30s. From the savages
of Hungary Madame has retired upon the
nobility of Vienna; Hollywood may come
later.
“B.B.”: Speaking of the projected revival
of “The Belle of New York,” “Aix-les-
Coogee” (B. 5/2/’3O) says that “given a
voice” Elma Gibbs would make a good Fifi.
It may interest him to know that it was her
excellent showing in that part with the
Newcastle (N.S.W.) amateurs that caused
the Firm to issue their invitation to her to
become a professional. I agree with “Aisle
Seat” that Cecil Englehardt was easily the
handsomest Belle, but who was the best?
I have seen about a dozen Violets, and my
vote goes to May Beattie, who was in Bris-
bane with Tom Pollard’s crowd in 1901.
“Credo”: “Mono-mark’s” reference to a
showboat on the Darling 30 years ago (B.
19/2/’3O) needs some correction. I was
born at Wilcannia in 1876, and my father
was a pioneer of the town. We were always
in close touch with visiting professionals,
and there certainly never was a showboat
capable of housing an audience. There were
shows which did the Darling in steamers,
and they included some fairly well-known
people, such as Charles Berkeley, afterwards
J.C.W.’s M.L. representative, and the Cogill
brothers. Despite isolation, Wilcannia saw
in its good days some prominent Thespians.
I recall Harry Plimmer, Albert Norman,
Blanche McLean and ( C. R. Stanford—the
last visited Wilcannia annually with Hay-
man’s co.
“Garrick”; It is a far cry to 1579,
when the moral temperance drama “Ten
Nights in a Bar Room” was produced
at the Princess Theatre, Melbourne. A
notice of the period mentions that “the melo-
dies include some of the best teetotal ditties
of the age,” and adds that “it is absolute
realism, and. not one of the horrors of
drunkenness is spared out of consideration
to mawkish sensibility.” Ramparter an old
ex-mummer who remembers the show con-
firms the realism. He told me that some of
the “Bar Roomers often went to their beds
well blithered.
COMPENSATIONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Though their foes may call them “squawkies,”
In derision and disdain,
There’s a charm about the talkies
That will make me go again.
They may fill the air with bits o’
Yankee slang and murdered speech,
While the brassy-lunged Wurlitzer
lioars like breakers on the beach;
Still this latest of contraptions
Makes me carol and rejoice,
For no fool can read the captions
In a penetrating voice !
N.S.W.
A. B. S.


EE
famous
AN FRANCISCO
on your
AMERICAN
TOUR b_
* • • • and plan to stay
at the delightful Clift Hotel
while doing it. The Clift offers
features especially pleasing to
visitors from Australia and New
Zealand 540 luxuriously
comfortable rooms, each with
its own bath and individual radio
reception; restaurant which is in-
ternational in menu qs in fame;
perfect but unobtrusive service;
central location, near shops, thea-
tres, points of
scenic interest.
Rates: single, from
$3 (about 125.) up-
ward ; double, from
#5 (about 1 guinea)
upward.
Full r- r jn don wire-
less request for ac-
commodations from
your steamer.
Hi*
iilliil
;; - 1 ; ii
tegs?
THE
CLIFT hotel
SAN FRANCISCO
CALIFORNIA,U.S. A.
/ r-^k'
#
%/lv
vi/
& Poisoned lores
The bites of mosquitoes, ants,
scorpions and other poisonous in-
sects are always liable to cause
serious swellings and abscesses.
Prompt use of Zam-Buk will
guard your skin against in-
flammation and disease.
Zam-Buk, a refined herbal
ointment is antiseptic and re-
markably soothing. It draws
poison out of the skin, prevents
discoloration and swelling, and
soon relieves smarting irritation.
Zam-Buk Ointment 1/6 and 3/6.
Medicinal Soap 1/- per tablet.
dfg
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street. Melbourne.
r N3INOM 51 WnidHlN ±D3m\
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HTNCHCLIJFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
AMMUNITION YOU CAN SHOOT WITH CONFIDENCE
9
o
vS'
'S'
vO
sue
S 5
u&
WILL not rust, pit or corrode the barrel. . . .here’s the cartridge
that banishes the drudgery of cleaning after shooting. A
special non-corrosive, non-rusting priming mixture makes
this possible. For target and small-game shooting, Peters Rustless
22’s ensure maximum accuracy and penetration. Buy a box or two
for trial. Ask also to see the full range of Peters metallic cartridges
and improved shot-gun shells. If unobtainable locally, write to
nearest address below.
□
AMMUNITION
“WHAT HAPPENS AFTER THE SHOT IS FIRED?” This is a free book
containing amazing new electric photographs of bullets and shot-gun charges
in flight. It clearly shows the advantages of Peters Ammunition. Write to
nearest address.
SYDNEY DEALERS: SIL ROHU, 143 Elizabeth Street; and
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD.
DISTRIBUTORS:
W. H. LI DBLE & CO York and Barrack Streets, Sydney
ALCOCK, PIERCE PTY., LTD Little Collins Street, Melbourne
ARMSTRONG CYCLE AND MOTOR AGE?;* *, . , Perth
JAS. HILL & SON, LTD Adelaide
FPL 7
BACK ON LEAVE
16-h.p. Austin
special P. and
J. 1,,-seater
Coupe .. £395
dg
• \
A\
Always a large
selection of new and
high - class used
cars. Easy terms
arranged to meet
o
every reasonable
requirement.
iiPf,
Once more in England, there are ro
many places you would like to visit,
so many old friendships to be renewed.
A car is admittedly the easiest and
quickest for these. Let Pass and Joyce,
Ltd., help in your choice.
They offer most comprehensive ser-
vice to visitors from Overseas—relieving
you of all minor worries, such as tax,
registration, etc., and put an expert
driver at your disposal, when you have
finally chosen your car, to acquaint
you with its features and controls.
FAVOURABLE RE-PURCHASE TERMS
Should you be returning to the East
after your leave, Pass and Joyce take
back your car at a fixed price agreed
upon at the time of purchase —a most
satisfactory arrangement to yourself.
Send now for free book, explain »
ing the Pass and Joyce service .
PMSS^JOYCE
46-47, PALL MALL, LONDON, W.l
('Phone: REGENT 1064)
Also at 373-5, Eusloti RoaJ, m N.W. 1.;
24/27, Orchard Street, W. 1
and at Manchester.
L.A.S. 183
If any illustration in ’’THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
*
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Tynesider”: When the Atlantic Union
oil-tanker Brunswick tied up alongside a
Balmain (N.S.W.) wharf the other day she
carried the largest shipment of refined oil
ever brought to Australia in one hit —
3,090,245 gallons. The ship is the largest
Diesel electric tanker afloat, and, like all
her kind, came off North of England slips.
* * $ *
“Bombex”: Between 40,000 and 60,000
bees were shipped from Brisbane to Rabaul
the other day—no one was particular about
running them through the counting gate, so
the margin allowed for error is pretty wide.
They are to be employed on fertilising cocoa-
nut palms, the local insects, like their human
brethren of the soil, having been found dila-
tory and casual on the job. The European
bee has since its introduction greatly in-
creased the yield per tree.
* S|! * *
“Electrode”: There is no reason for West-
ralians to import axe- and other tool-
handles from the U.S. when they have large
forests of redgum, or marri, of their own.
Owing to the prevalence of gum veins and
kino pockets, the timber of this tree is
unsuitable for large pieces of wood, but
for tool-handles, wheel-spokes, swingle-trees
and similar uses it is just as good as
hickory. I have had a redgum handle in
my axe for over 18 months and I don’t
want a better.
S|S !|5 * S|S
“Sunny Hill”: Here in Dubbo (N.S.W.)
the only oranges now in the shops are Cali-
fornian, and the only lemons Italian. Yet
the district produces some of the best citrus
fruit in the world ; a couple of cases of Valen-
cias were deemed by a former State Gover-
nor good enough to send to Buckingham
Palace. The local product is marketed by
individual growers, who take market (or
glut) prices, are at the mercy of speculators
and often without supplies when prices are
best. Meanwhile the Yanks, who grade, pack
and store their product co-operatively, can
sell it as a branded-quality article thousands
of miles away.
* :|: :|: *
“Kayeff”: Opium, silks and unwanted
aliens are not the only contraband watched
for on boats from Eastern ports. A much-
feared immigrant is the green and gold
Japanese beetle, which has worked such
havoc with crops in America. The orna-
mental stranger developed an appetite for
no less than 212 varieties of plants in its
new home, and throve so well that three
varieties of parasites had to be brought from
Nippon to keep it in check. In beetle-
infested territory in the States all roads are
patrolled throughout the summer by staffs
of special inspectors, who search all vehicles
carrying anything that may harbor the pests.
* * * *
“T.P.”: Pretty near everything may be
got nowadays on the hire-purchase and lay-by
systems, from funerals to false teeth. That
ancient and conservative steamship line, the
P. and 0., has recently made the staggering
innovation of offering passages “on the lay-
by.” The very latest in the field is a leading
English aeroplane co. which is offering its
’planes to the public on the usual t.p. terms
of a deposit and so much “per.” The co,
follows on the lines of the motor organisa-
tions and undertakes to re-purchase at fixed
rates according to the length of time the
machine has been used by the buyer.
**' * *
“Bert the Carpenter”: I’ve examined three
home-made aeroplanes which have never
flown (B. 19/2/'3O), and, speaking only from
a woodworker’s point of view, I wouldn’t
trust any of them six feet off the ground.
All had been made by motor-mechanics who,
skilled enough in their own trades, possessed
only a rudimentary knowledge of woodwork.
Without blue-prints and plans from which
to work, no tradesman would dream of tack-
ling some of the jobs that these amateurs
cheerfully undertake. Just now I have before
me the plans of a sail-plane glider. Two
lads want me to build the woodwork of the
wings and fuselage, but I can’t give a price
until they get the specifications translated
from the German. The glider is a hefty
affair on paper—the wing span is roughly
47ft. —yet when finished it should weigh only
2801 b. or so. The wood to be used in it is
mountain ash from Victoria.
* # # *
“Ready R.” : Australian towns w r ith five-
figure populations, outside of capitals and
their _ ever-spreading suburbs, don’t make a
very imposing list. Here is a summary from
one of the latest guidebooks—N.S.W.: Broken
Hill (23,260) ; Lithgow (15,170) ; Newcastle
(14,880) ; Goulburn (12,690) ; Maitland
(East and West), (11,780) ; Ivatoomba
(10,250). Victoria: Geelong (37,783);
Ballarat (37.755) ; Bendigo (31,066) ; Colac
(13,200); Swan Hill (13,000); Camper-
down (11,108) ; Mordialloc (10,060). Queens-
land: Townsville (30,200) ; Rockhampton
(30,000) ; Toowoomba (24,500) ; Ipswich
(23,000) ; Nambour (13,000) ; Maryborough
(12,000); Bundaberg (11,000). S. Aus.:
Port Pirie (12,000). Tas.: Launceston
(26,280). Twenty-two in all. Westralia
doesn’t contribute, its biggest centre of popu-
lation nowadays outside the metropolitan
area being Ivalgoorlie (8000).
•I’
“Strilo” : “Dingley” expresses a hope that
Australian tobacco-growers will get a better
spin now that a big British manufacturing
firm intends to open in Melbourne. Doubtless
they will, if they can produce the goods.
At present Australian-grown tobacco is use-
less for the manufacture of cigars. Where-
ever Havana, Manila or Sumatra seed is
planted in this country it comes up always
characteristically Australian, which is due,
presumably, to essential differences in soil
and climate. There is another point. In
the countries where cigar-making is an estab-
lished industry the tobacco, after being
picked, is hung up in sheds for about six
months. Then comes the all-important pro-
cess of fermentation to give it aroma and
flavor. What Australian tobacco we have is
flue-cured; it is used for pipe tobacco and
cigarettes, mixed with Virginian, and there
is reason _to hope that the quality will
gradually improve. But cigar tobacco must
be skilfully fermented.


m
m
m
m
kIIB
s?
m
m
m
«a
HAR-DT'S
S&ARKILIJVG
e<
re
as a fountain. ”


NCS 5 6
dfg
CHRYSLER’S BIGGEST VALUE
s
x>\%
m
W
w
m
©
&
H t s f i*
K«!
n.f
L
6fi
■'*' rfOj*
A A A £lx
aw
ns
'^jn
□
ulM'
m
t
•t*i«//
nllliOl/iil''!!;
a
'/Hi V
i'n
.tn'W «' 4 •;:. •///!!,,
..mi' I '"'.' " tw
W.i
.v\U
///!<•'"
. Slilltt'*''. 1 ' •**
mu,
' «• "'ll/-,..
fIMII'
TO-DAY'S Chrysler “66”—the
lowest-priced six ever to
bear the Chrysler name —is in
every way the biggest value
ever offered by Chrysler.
It gives you Chrysler beauty*
Chrysler luxury—and Chrysler
performance! Here is high-
compression power from any
gasoline. Here is a superb
engine with 7-bearing crankshaft
and Iso-therm Invar Strut
pistons; with impulse neutraliser
and with positive fuel pump,
instead of a vacuum tank.
Rubber engine mountings are
another outstanding Chrysler
advantage.
Here is the safety of weather-
proof internal-expanding four-
wheel hydraulic brakes. Here
are remarkable riding qualities
secured through a perfectly-
balanced chassis and extra-long
springs—and a new type of
rubber-core spring shackle,
noiseless, as well as resilient,
and never in need of lubrication.
Just ask the nearest Chrysler
dealer for a demonstration. He
will gladly place a Chrysler
“66” in your hands for any
test or series of tests you desire
to make.
CHRYSLER
# .CHRYSLER MOTORS PRODUCT
dfg
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
Neu) South Wales . . . Larke, Neave & Carter, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Lane's Motors Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland . ... Ward Motors, Limited, Brisbane
West Australia Wm. AttWood Motors, Ltd., Perth
South Australia . . . Southern Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania Metro Motors Pty., Ltd., Hobart
New Zealand Todd Motor Company, Wellington
New Guinea W . jR. Carpenter & Co., Lid., Rabaul


Firearms sent C.O.D.
dfg
HI-POWER RIFLES will make the
KANGA-ROO THE DAY.
Savage 22 Hi-power Rifles, £lO/15/-, £ll/15/-
and £l3.
Savage 250/3000 Hi-power Rifles, £ll/15/-
and £l3.
Mauser for British 303 Cartridges, £l4/10/-
Mauser 6.5 M/M and 250/3000 Hi-power
Rifles, £l5; with Zeiss Telescope, £24.
Mannlicher-Schonnauer 6.7 M/M Hi-power
Rifles, £lB/10/- and £2O ; with Telescope,
£3O.
B.S.A. 303 Hi-power Rifles, £ll/15/- and
£l4/10/-
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
’Phone, MA3540.
Gunsmith, Importer: of High-grade Firearms,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
1438 Elizabeth Street (near Market
Street), Sydney.
You must try this
LIGHT BEER
RESCH’S
PILSENER
A Drink to Delight You.
WARWICK"
Riding
Trousers.
A popular “b i g-'
value” line. Ready-
made Riding
Trousers of a ser-
viceable olive shade.
Tough, super-cotton
twill riding cloth,
cut with cross
pockets
and belt
loops
12/6
BUY
A
PAIR
TO-DAY.
(Three
pairs
35/-)
for
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED,
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
A capital performance in the first division
of the St. Patrick’s Day Mile at Moorefleld
has brought Troilus into the market tor the
Doncaster Handicap. He is a four-yeai-old
bay gelding by Redfern —Etramalt, who
traces back to that fine mare Etra Weenie.
Equal favorite with Casque d’Or at tours,
Troilus was a good way back in the early
stages and was behind five horses entering
the short straight. But he finished at a
fine bat for Cook, and at the end was a
comfortable length and a half ahead ot
Casque d’Or. who was the same distance,
in advance of Lipari—another that got badly
away. The beaten division included Vaais,
Anambah, Paddi Eve (who has filled out a
lot) and Raasay; and the time—lmin. 43sec.
—was good considering the going. J r ol . us
carried Bst. lib,, as against the <st. -lb. he
will have in the Doncaster.
The second division was also run in 1.43.
It showed that J. A. Scully’s Shillinglee filly
Exact (10 to 1) is very game as well as
fast, for she successfully resisted attempts
on the part of the favorites, Rionscup and
Cavedweller, to take the lead from her, and
when passed and apparently beaten by
Bunkum came again, worrying him out of it
by a head. Moorgas was third and Ciucis
fourth; the Sydney Cup winner looks nice
and bright, and so does Loquacious, tor
whom there was a bit of money, though she
was never “called.”
Roy Marsden was seen to advantage on
Exact, but he didn’t shine on his father s
• horse Baverwrack in the Moorefleld Handi-
cap. That disappointing animal, who was
spiritedly backed, was nearly last going out
of the straight, and came home fourth.
Stormy (9 to 2), a good horse on a wet day,
won nicely from Magdaff (6 to 1) apd
Promara in the meritorious time for the dis-
tance and the day of 2min. Bsec. Bartle
had the mount. He had previously ridden
the winners of the Juvenile Handicap divi-
sions, Chemosh (evens) and Lebanon, gelded
sons of imported Moabite.
Prince Verderer repaid those who had
stuck to him in spite of recent disappoint-
ments by cantering in with the first division
of the Flying Welter. He went out at 3 to 1,
but a lot of people got better odds.
* * * *
For the Hawkesbury meeting at Moore-
field on Saturday :
Clarendon Handicap: Peacemaker; next,
Lady 0 ! Clare.
Hawkesbury Handicap: Magdaff; next,
Urunaway.
Flying Handicap: Golden Voice; next,
Kala Moti.
Highweight Handicap: Pavilion; next,
Puff.
% * * *
Victorian representation at the Easter
races in Sydney will be very weak numeri-
cally. Thurlstone is sure to be a hard nut
for local talent to crack in the valuable
juvenile events, and The Doctor’s Orders is
a young thoroughbred of promise; but no
visitors from over the border will compete
at weigh t-for-age. In the latter arena
Strephon swept everything before him at
the last A.J.C. autumn meeting. Victoria
has a doughty aspirant to Doncaster honors
in First Arrow, imported from England by
A. P. Wade and trained by Lou Robertson.
The performances of Second Wind and Cara-
melo at Caulfield last Saturday indicate that
both of those geldings may have a cut at
the Sydney Cup.
Starting equal second favorites (at fives)
for the St. Kilda Handicap, of one and a half
miles, Second Wind and Caramelo finished
first and second respectively. Second \\ ind
had to concede his imported rival a stone in
weight. There will be only 101 b. between
them in the two-mile contest at Randwick.
Caramelo put in a great finishing run at
Caulfield, and got to within half a neck of
the Westralian-owned horse. Theo- Lewis
had made a lot of use of Second Wind before
Caramelo came on the scene. Both place-
getters shaped immeasurably better than they
did during the autumn carnival.
Punters bit their fingers over making
Romany Rye favorite for the St. Kilda
Handicap. A. T. .Creswick’s colt was just
touched off by Leadiglit in the Northcote
Handicap at headquarters, 'and that justified
him being accorded warm support; but on
Saturday the chestnut galloped in cramped
style. Last in the early- stages, he made
a desperate but futile effort to mend matters-
Neville Pereival surrendered hope half a mile
from home, and allowed Romany Rye to
canter in at the tail of the field. Another
disappointing display was that by Prince
Viol, whose victory at Williamstown in
February has proved to be a mere flash in the
pan. Last spring, Prince Viol was strongly
fancied by his owners for the Melbourne Cup,
but an accident on Derby Day put him out of
action.
Thurlstone’s stable-mate, Kaftan, who
followed Thurlstone and The Doctor’s Orders
home in the V.R.C. Sires Produce Stakes
and Ascot Vale Stakes, was popularly
regarded as the bet of the day at Caulfield.
She went out at 6 to 4, with 7 to 1 offered
bar one. Kaftan chased Gerbera (14 to 1)
into the straight, and then knocked up, finish-
ing seventh only. Bob Lewis had the keen
satisfaction of winning on Gerbera for Mrs.
Ernest Clarke, wife of the sportsman with
whom he has been associated for a quarter of
a century. Lewis, wtat 52, intends continuing
in the saddle as long as Ernest Clarke needs
him, which is a big order. Santorb, a Saltash
colt, surprised his owner-trainer, Cecil Godby,
by gaining second honors. How much of a
surprise it was may be judged from Santorb
having started at 50 to 1.
Scqbie, who trains Gerbera, supplied the
favorite for the TTbique Welter in Mytenis,
another of Ernest Clarke’s breeding. Mytenis
acquitted himself only passably. However,
another son of Cyklon, S. B. Ferguson’s
Cyanafe (15 to 1), carried off the spoils.
He narrowly defeated Apis, a grey son of
Sarchedon, who had been third last.
The closest finish was that in the South
Yarra Handicap. Pamona (7 to 1) scored by
half a head from Dominant (12 to 1), who
was a head in advance of Doradus. Domin-
ant (Saltash—Weltea) is the prad for which
E. M. Pearce, Harry Hope, J. Fell and F.
Robinson paid 6750 guineas as a yearling at
Sydney two years ago. Cecil Godby has him
in hand.
* * * *
For Moonee Valley next Saturday:—
Moonee Ponds Handicap : Caramelo ; next,
Standard Bearer.
Sherwood Highweight: Fission; next,
Dominant.
NATURAL HISTORY NOTE.
MADDENED SECOND: “'IT ’im! Yer supposed to be a pug, not a prayin’ mantis!”
“Durdans”: Little has been heard of
Strephon since Sol Green’s great horse took
up his quarters in England, save that he was
acclimatising nicely. The latest news is that
he has been entered for the Ivempton Park
Jubilee Stakes, to be run over a mile and a
quarter on May 17. The race is a profitable
one, and coming as it does a little more than
a month before the Ascot meeting, where the
Gold Cup is. to be. Strephon’s declared objec-
tive, should give punters a useful line on his
chances at the “Royal Meeting.”
# * # *
“Thormanby”: One curious trait of the
late John Brown as a breeder of bloodstock
was that many of the youngsters on his
N.S.W. stud farms were never asked to
earn their oats. They were left to run loose
in the paddocks until they drifted out in the
course of nature or in other unheralded ways.
In this, the late coal “baron” was following
in the footsteps of another mighty ' man of
coalmines, albeit a pukka member of the
peerage, the Earl of Glasgow. The Earl had
a method of his own of disposing of young
stock. Every couple of years or so he held a
field court-martial on his stud, the majority
of which, youngsters, brood mares, and occa-
sionally stallions, were summarily shot. He
quarrelled with his trainers as often as John
Brown did, and it is on record that he
never raced a good horse. How many he
unwittingly got rid of before their promise
was known is another matter.
❖ * * *
“Swan”: The perennial trouble between
the Westralian trotting authorities and Ike
Mcßagg boiled up again at Brennan Park
the other night. As the result of a disagree-
ment over the license fees Ike struck work
and called out all his myrmidons, including
clerks, runners, biters, urgers and minders.
In spite of a wet night there was a good
crowd, and the tote investments were higher
in proportion to attendance than ever
recorded before in the history of trotting in
Perth.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Victorian Llew Edwards (§st. 131 b.) made
up for his defeat’by Bill Tyson a few weeks
ago by outpointing Archie Hughes (Bst.
1311 b.), featherweight champion of New
South Wales, at Sydney Stadium over 15
rounds. Without being wildly exciting, the
scrap was punctuated. by bursts of hard
fighting by both lads,’ in which the visitor,
by his speedier hitting and clever defence,
was generally on top. Up to half-way
there wasn’t a great deal between the> pair,
Hughes being more aggressive. From the
eighth round Edwards began to pile up
points, but Hughes, although slower, was
always strong and willing. In the last round
the lads fought toe to toe, swapping punches
with both hands, without either being able
to land a convincer. !
*■* * *
Donovan, the latest Maoriland feather-
weight star, took on the tough American,
Pete Sarron, in an open-air fight in New
Plymouth, and was out on his feet when
his opponent got home with a wild “rabbit-
killer.” The referee waved the American
away and declared Donovan the winner,
whereupon Sarron burst into tears. There
were 8000 people round the ring.
* * * *
“Bendigo” : When the Scott-Sharkey fight
film was exhibited recently in America com-
plaints were made that it had been severely
“edited” in Sharkey’s favor. Slow-motion
runs of the complete film which have
been screened privately show, according to
those who claimed that Scott was fouled,
that Sharkey not only frequently hit low,
but made attempts to gouge his opponent,
whose eye was noticeably injured in spite
of the glove.
# * * #
“Tom Cribb”: Hope springs eternal in the
human breast, and even pugilists seem to
be affected. The latest example is Jack
Dempsey, well walloped by Tunney a couple
of years ago, and since rioting among the
fleshpots of Broadway. John, at the best a
moderate fighter in a decade of duds, if one
excepts the much lighter Carpentier, has
been medically examined and has forecast
a comeback. The opposition in sight is poor
enough, but even then one cannot give him
a chance. He would do well to ponder on
the fate of Bob Fitzsimmons. Jim Jeffries
and others who have taken “Resurgam” for
their slogan, only to find it transformed
into “R.1.P.”
The Ins and Outs
The second game of the Australian XI
in Tasmania ended in a draw. Tassy made
131 and 174 (Nash 93), while Australia
closed their only innings at 4 for 419.- Pons-
ford broke his bad tr,ot with 166 n. 0., while
Bradman added 139 to his record-breaking
tally for the season. The team is figuring
in a three-days’ match at Perth before
departing.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Victorian interests struggled
hard to arrange a benefit match for .Tack
Ryder before, the Australian Eleven’s depar-
ture, the thought being evidently fathered
by the hQpe that the misunderstood
John would belt the cover off the opposition
bowling. The suggestion came too late in the
season, however, and nothing could be done.
The instigators of the scheme are sticking
to their guns, and intend to stage the match
when the Eleven comes marching home in
November, if they have to picket the Board
of Control to gain their point.
* * $ *
“U.”: In a recent grade cricket match in
Brisbane the captain of the fielding side
refused to tell the opening batsmen at which
end the bowling would begin, and the sub-
sequent dispute nearly ended in an aban-
doned match. The skipper yielded his point,
but there was no reason for his doing so,
since the laws of cricket do not compel him
to tell the batsmen which bowler he will
start with. Also, there is nothing to prevent
opening batsmen changing ends when the
bowler has declared himself by taking the
ball, provided “play” has not been called.
* * * *
“Lancaster Park”: Maoriland cricket
heads, who dropped a parcel of brass over
the last tour of Britain, were a bit windy
over the clean-up after the Gilligan tour.
The pan-out has been very satisfactory,
showing a net profit of over £5OO. A stony-
hearted N.S.W. and federal Income Tax
Department deducted £4OO from the takings
of the M.C.C. v. N.S.W. match in Sydney,
the profits of which went to M.L. coffers.
An application for the return of this has
not yet gone through. If all is well, M.L.
will thus be about a thousand to the good.
* * * *
“W. G. Snort”; Temperament of the kind
so common in tennis is rarely seen in cricket
nowadays. In the past it was different, and
one great bowler: in particular was notorious
for his habit of throwing down his cap and
jumping on it when an 1 umpire said “Not
out.” There was a revival of the old interest
in Melbourne the other day in one of the
pennant matches. A fieldsman attempting to
gather the ball with his foot kicked it into
the fence for four. The skipper then told
the footballer to change places with a club-
mate, whereupon he left the field in high
dudgeon. It is said the crowd objected to
the “unsportsmanlike” action of the skipper.
It would certainly seem that he didn’t know
his place, as some modern sportsmen visualise
it.
* * t-
“Basin”: The final for the Plunkett Shield
between Auckland and Wellington provided
some excitement. Auckland had to win out-
right to take the piece of plate from the
windy province, but were stalled off with a
draw, though they played all over their
opponents at the wickets. Scoring 433 to
283, Auckland declared at 354 for 4 in their
second innings, leaving Wellington 504 to
win. The latter made a valiant fight of it,
and saved their shield by drawing after
8 wickets had gone for 380. Lowry (122) and
McGirr (90) held the fort.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Though Britain seems to have
taken kindly to the larger wicket and the
amended l.b.w. rule, other departures from
the normal are shocking the cricket diehards.
One of these is Sir Arthur Hazelrigg, presi-
dent of Leicester County G. C., who has
lifted up his voice against the four days
allotted to Test matches. His idea is that they
will make play even slower, and that they will
further interfere with the county cricket
programme. The bold baronet —he is the
thirteenth, and once skippered the county—
is probably correct in his last contention,
though Test cricket can hardly be slower ki
four days than it has been in three in the
past.
(Continued on page 41.)
The international Rugby match between
England and Scotland at Twickenham ended
in a pointless draw after a great battle
between the opposing forwards. Scotland
retains the Calcutta Cup, given for com-
petition between the two countries, and curi-
ously enough the two are level with 21 wins
each, 10 games being drawn. In the inter-
national championships France has 2 wins
and a loss, to 2 wins, a loss and a draw
by England. A win by France against
Wales in Paris on Easter Monday will give
the Gauls their first international premier-
ship.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The British Rugby team
which leaves England on May 11 for M.L.
and Australia will be the fifth to visit us.
There was a long gap between the first side
in 1888 and the second under the diminutive.
Kent parson Mullineux, here in 1899. Then
came the splendid team of 1904, led by
Bedell-Sivright, and finally A. F. Hard-
ing’s Anglo-Welslimen in 1908. Against
these sides Australia won only one inter-
national, the first in 1899 at Sydney, though
Queensland downed the visitors at Brisbane,
and Sydney Metropolitan repeated the dose
later. ‘ The 1904 tourists , won every match
in Australia, but lost 2 out of 5 in M.L.,
including the single Test. The Anglo-Welsh
won 7 out of 9 in Australia, losing to West-
ern Districts and N.S.W. In Maoriland,
the team lost 7 out of 17 games, losing two
Tests and drawing one. ' .


Tour of Joe Kirkwood
and Walter Hagen
It will be noticed during the tour of Joe Kirkwood and
W. Hagen through Australia that Joe Kirkwood always uses
the Spalding ball. Not only this, but he now always plays
with the new Spalding Cushion Neck Steel Shafted irons.
Playing with these clubs, and the Spalding ball, Tommy
Armour—the famous American professional—on January 8,
1930, at Hollywood, California, made a new course record
of 59 on Harold Lloyd’s private golf course.
r .'oOO 6 s
TiO B Q Q D Ci>
toma a cicmu?
boaooo □ DDOO\
O,O
fIOOPD □ □ i
|OOP □ □ □ □ ODD/
;m«Qp acme#
(OgD DOg)
» □ O
fcoo acica
la ipddqiqV
Adddo □ □ ddou\
JOO OO O □ D D DDL
inane □'□boD cl
'Soup □ □ □□cozy
'to ■ □ □ do may
i Q a a □ d gj
'<&£ S g
rJo ° a C VN
(CIOPCDIQ^
irooDO □ □ dqdc\
JiIOODD p D ODDDi
{□□□□□'□boot)/]
\ooppd pDCOzy
a □ do nan
itj a p petj
s *s S a cs gj'’
OBOg'
JtJ p □ □ D
fp a a □ ci □ ■
tea DO □ D DQDOi
bODDD D o ODOBi
□ □□□ □ □ □ ODCfI
QUO □ □ DDCOZy
iioiQD dd mat
‘QgPDggi
igDB gf
'0
Wm
/CCIDO
[HOOD
lobaa
HOOP
iCH
ip
rißCg'
p O Q Cl
odcqibl
QODqd qo\
□ □ □ D DDCfI
□ □ □ □ ODC/I
□ □ □ □ D OZ7/
a p p d i
Q p d D C!
Ssd gr
a a a S'
J 6 CD Q
fp ■ □ P P □ ■
boa oop o Dooci
bOODQ D ° □ OOGI
“ —llnj-OIIIL- 1
□ □O □ □ □ O CDCU
odppd □□cozy
foiac uo mat
iCiQaQDt!
“Sod gjF
.. p o D cT»J.
, p p p a tj c\
;cioodqiq«
bCIDD □ □ □ D ducA
IUDOOD a o D DOCS
(ododdd'qdodoJ
□ □ □ □ o ozy
ju«p-p do mat
ItjQn noPj
& a d gF*
roSaaoß^
la ■ □ d □ □ ■ u\
boa do □ □ duoo\
Jssse&sessa
IODQD □ □ □ □ DDOIL
ODOOZ7|
iioiup do mat
IQQQ peg!
‘ , C 3 S C 3 g
ra'&V.
p P u I-I c ex
fCIQCQpiQ^
[acooou □ ppouJ
DOODD O D □ DOOQ
■\ooapc □ □ □ 0 COM
|DDP □ □ OP CO D/
>Q»PP DDI
ItjQ □ p a P<
• - , g q s gF
is-
KRO ~ FLITE
MULTI ~DOT
GOLF BALLS'
with the Jew Granite-hard Paint
THE special feature of 1930 Spalding Kro-Flite Golf Balls is
the New Granite-hard Paint, which is processed by a newly-
perfected automatic painting machine installed at the Sunshine
factory. This entirely eliminates all hand work on the balls,
with the result that the quality of the painting is such as to place
the Kj:o-Flite on the pinnacle of perfection.
So great is the confidence in the universal satisfaction
which the new paint will give, that we have extended the
Guarantee of 72 holes to specifically include the painting on all
Spalding Kro-Flite Balls.
'no tslQ4.
(N.sS. W.)
PTY. ITO.
332 Kent Street,
Sydney.
After being painted under the new
automatic process at the end of last
season, a quantity of Kro-Flite Multi-
Dot Golf Balls were rushed to
Adelaide for the Open Championship.
It is common knowledge, of course,
that the Kro-Flite won the Open
Championship.
ON PUTTING
Golfers worry too much about their style of
putting. This spoils their concentration.
Get a style in which you are comfortable.
Study the line. Keep your head and body
still and concentrate on hitting the ball into
the hole. If you have a putt uphill where
the line looks straight remember the ball will
always swing slightly to the left, but down
hill it will swing slightly to the right.


ADELAIDE’S
Most Modem Hotel
THE
HOTEL BOTANIC
NORTH TERRACE, CITY.
Delightfully Situated
Garden Frontage
Balcony, Rooms
All Latest Appointments.
VICHY <
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
W. W. GREENER
GUNS
r (*\
W. W. GREENER LTD, Birmingham
Wholesale Australian Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD,
405-07 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, C.l.
GERT IHE PONIES. seem to
UNDERSTAND THE QAHE .”
Bert:" l should s/vy they do!
They know every rule ”
<SERT ; "Do THEY ?
6ERT l Too right! why, DYou Know,
I ONCE SfcW £>, PONY ARGUING
WITH THE UNtPIRS, 1 *
The Ins and Outs
“Spare Jonah”: The Australian Eleven
made an ominous start in their opening
match as a touring team, when Barney Old-
field went out to a crack on the cranium, a
ball from Fairfax being the agency, Old-
field’s luck has been fairly bad since he
returned from his last tour of Britain, what
with a severe attack of neuritis in M.D., a
broken hand during the season now closing,
and now this latest casualty. Though that
is comparatively unimportant, it suggests
that the Australian ’keeper is beginning to
make a habit of .stopping something painful.
That is what ’keepers are for, certainly; but
there is such a thing as overdoing it.
* # * *
“Aunt Sally” : The latest “Wisden” rejoices
that the supply of promising bowlers in
England is much ahead of expectations.
The famous volume’s annual list of the “five
best cricketers” affords an opportunity for
comment. Two of those cited, Bowley and
Duleepsinhji, played in Australia recently
with Gilligan’s M.G.C. side. Bowley is
rated one of the best all-rounders, and
played for England against the South
Africans and for the Players. Neither here
nor in M.L. did he do anything to suggest
he was in the championship class. Duleep-
sinhji, though suggesting great possibilities,
was far from the Australian idea of the
super-batsman the English press credited
him with being. English swans are often
geese in Australia, and vice versa, but if the
two players mentioned are in England’s
first flight, our own players should have no
reason to develop the inferiority complex.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur” : The present Australian
Eleven will be the first to tour England since
the Amateur Federation of Australia pro-
nounced this country’s first-class cricketers
professionals. In England, though the Aus-
tralian players have always been conceded
the courtesy status of amateurs, there has
never been any question of their proper
rating, a fact which has roused quite a lot of
feeling among the professional element of
English cricket in the past. It will be
interesting to note whether the old tag of
“Mr.” will again be accorded the visitors, or
whether they will be shorn of the historic
distinction.
* * * *
“Return Crease”: Veteran Tom Andrews,
once of the Australian XI and still one of
the country’s finest cricketers, joined a select
company the other day, when he totalled
1000 runs for the N.S.W. dub season.
Victor Trumper was the first to perform
the feat in 1897-98. and was followed by
Jim Mackay in 1905-06. Warren Bardsley
and. Dr. Bogle were the only others, Bardsley
having the highest aggregate with 1145. Up
to completing his thousand, Andrews had
played 15 innings for an average of 90.
Trumper’s total was knocked up in eight
innings, and his average was 204.20.
* * # *
. The Orient Co. has followed up its attrac-
tive souvenir of Gilligan’s Marylebone Eleven
with one commemorating the departure of the
Australian side for England. Portraits of
the players are accompanied by short sketches
of their cricket careers, while a complete and
official list of fixtures is added. Excellently
produced and bound in the Australian colors
of green and gold, the booklet is a valuable
record.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Not many batsmen can
boast of having climbed into international
cricket without having compiled a three-figure
score in first-class club or inter-State games.
Stan McCabe, one of the batting hopes of
Australian Eleven, is one. The country
lad’s first century in Sydney grade cricket
was made early in the month, when he
scored 102 for Mosman. Having got the
habit, he followed this up with 103 for
Australia against Tasmania, his first in big
cricket. Then is a lot of Australian money
ready to vociferate that there will be other’s
before the team’s tour closes in England next
September.
* * * *
“Hutt” : Wellington (M.L.) cricketers are
greatly downcast over the departure of F.
T. Badcock, who had for some years been
professional to the Association. The player
had done a lot for Wellington cricket, but
the funds for his services have always been
hard to find, with the result that both parties
have separated with mutual esteem. Perhaps
the most painful part of it all to Welling-
tonians is that Badcock has transferred his
services to Dunedin, where the inhabitants
are supposed to only part with their silver
when it threatens to wear out with constant
carrying about in buttoned-up pockets. That
Dunedin should afford what Wellington can-
not hurts.
The Watermen
“Blade”: The first regatta of the Nepean
Rowing Club, the only country institution of
the kind N.S.W. can boast, turned out a
great success, the metropolitan clubs rising
nobly to the occasion and providing plenty
of entries for the programme. No fewer than
seven Sydney clubs showed up, as well as
St. Joseph’s College, while the Sydney crew
which will represent the State in the King's
Cup gave an exhibition row. The affair
went so well that it should spur some of
the other country centres with good rivers at
their command to start clubs in their turn,
thus bringing N.S.W. into line with the
other States.
“Monkey”: As the result of the St.
Joseph’s College boat’s visit to the Nepean
the near future may see the annual G.P.S.
Head of the River contest transferred to the
country water from the congested and
dangerous Parramatta (B. 5/3/’3O). The
college rowing authorities were so struck
with the Nepean course that they have pur-
chased a site for training quarters close to
the railway bridge. It should be only a
matter of time before the other schools follow
the example.
* * * *
“Stroke Side”: Queensland Rowing Asso-
ciation is pluming itself on having at last
secured a pitch for its big events which will
enable it to pouch a decent gate. This is a
new wharf in the Hamilton Reach of the
Brisbane River which, with an extensive range
of fenced-in land along the bank, has been
made available by the owners. The enclosure
will carry a big crowd and has plenty of
parking space for the indispensable cars.
The “stand” will, be christened at the State
champion eights on March 29, and as matters
are at present the King’s Cup race will be
rowed over this course in 1932.
* * * =s
“Glenelg” : The South Australian eight-oar
championship was won in good style by the
Torrens Club, which also collected the junior
championship a week or two previously.
Torrens came home on the bit from five
other crews, cutting out the three miles in
17min. 37see., which, even allowing for the
current in the Port Adelaide River, is fair
moving. The State sculls proved a good thing
for F. Heidrich. who had the same experience
last year. Although he had rowed in the
champion eights just previously, the two-
mile spin took only 13min. ssec.
* # * *
“Shell”: The N.S.W. rowing heads have
nominated Bobby Pearce as their candidate
for the sculling events at the Canadian
Empire Games, and his selection by the
Australian committee is a foregone con-
clusion. It was also decided to nominate
Harry Pearce as trainer to the team, thus
ensuring that the redoubtable Robert will be
properly prepared for his battle with
Gaudaur, junior, and Peter Wright. The
ex-professional champion acted as mentor to
the youngster at the last Olympiad, and had
a lot to do with his success.
* * * *
“Wanganui”: Whereas a section of the
Australian athletic authorities are indisposed
to spend any of their own money in sending
a team to the Empire Games, and propose
to utilise the £lOOO donated by Canada to pay
the expenses of whatever mixed team is sent,
Maorilanders are setting a better example.
All other athletic bodies have agreed to raise
their own funds and to hand the Canadian
cheque over to the M.L. rowing organisation
to equip and finance an eight. Since Aus-
tralia is only sending a sculler, and Britain
has jibbed at shipping a crew across, the
All Blacks will probably be the only over-
seas entrants in the big rowing event on
Lake Ontario.
Racquet and Bawl
“5.1.” : The Test match between the M.L. and
Australian tennis players (the latter led by
Kalms) was played on the Wilding Park
courts at Christchurch, and was won by the
visitors, who took 10 matches to 2. Maori-
land scored a single match on each of the
two days, Wilson winning from Teague, of
Victoria, on the first day, and Bartlett scoring
at the same player’s expense on the second.
Angus proved the most formidable of the
home side, giving Kalms a hard go in their
singles match, and showing well in the double
events with France. Anthony Wilding’s
successor is not yet in sight, nor is another
E. D. Andrews visible.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone’’: What is there about
tennis which seems to set its champions
apart from leaders in other field games? The
question is prompted by a long psycho-analy-
tical screed in a Sydney journal which pro-
fesses to summarise the complexes and
inhibitions —if that is the right jargon—of
the departed Davis Cup team. Crawford, the
seer asserts, is the subject of strange rumors,
‘'which are always in the air about him.”
Hopman has been “nervy and temperamental”
because of his business. Moon is “liable to
strange lapses.” Willard seems to be just
plain bloke, nothing being said about him.
No one ever serves up this sort of guff about
Don Bradman and his fellows, while the
returned Kangaroos, visiting American
wrestlers, and even the departing bowlers
are immune from it. Whaffor?
* * H< *
“Count Smorltork”: It is gratifying to
note that, in spite of opposition in the past,
the feminine element in tennis is gaining
increased representation on the councils of
the game, as far as N.S.W. at least, is con-
cerned. Very properly there has been a
general chorus of approbation in the press,
so it is the more regrettable that a Jarring
note has intruded here and there. One such
was a par. which followed up a congratu-
latory announcement that certain ladies had
been elected to a committee or something
with the statement that the debate at the
first meeting lasted so long that it had to
be adjourned without the business on the
agenda paper being “nearly” completed.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Iconoclast” : The financial depression was
dimmed as far as Australian golfers were
concerned last week when Walter Hagen
singed a finger slightly in lighting one of his
interminable cigarettes. This naturally han-
dicapped the great man so much that he was,
with partner Kirkwood, beaten 5 and 3 in a
36-hole 4-ball match at the Australian Club
course at Kensington (N.S.W.) by the local
professionals Fred Popplewell and D.
Spence. This was the only genuine match of
the abbreviated series played after Kirk-
wood’s emergence from quarantine. Neither
of the visitors has yet had a chance to show
his true form, but Hagen’s deadly stroke
certainty under all circumstances has been
enough for the cognoscenti. Kirkwood is
still a stunt golfer before all; he has en-
larged his trick repertoire, but his golf is
little better than it was when he left Aus-
tralia.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Joe Kirkwood, who is
financing the tour of himself and Walter
Hagen on this side of the Line, looked to be
behind it a bit at the end of his N.S.W.
showing. Small-pox on the ship washed out
M.L., and Kirkwood was himself held in
quarantine in Sydney, the showing of the
visitors being considerably curtailed in con-
sequence. However, Victoria, where the pair
are at present, should return a good divvy,
guarantees having been solid. Then will
come Queensland, where the cash is always
good, and after that there will be one or two
further shows in N.S.W., which has not,
so far, displayed extravagant recognition of
the visitors’ merits in terms of cash, though
press adulation has been cheap and plentiful.
* * * *
“Brassey”: How like begets like is seen
in that bloated offshoot of bloated Sydney
the bloated Royal Sydney Golf Club. The
overcrowded old show at Rose Bay wheezed
the other day that it was the largest thing of
its kind in the world. Membership is 2542,
which does not include nearly 500 associates.
The waiting list is 1129, and the assets are
rated at £144,880. What the huge monu-
ment to snobbery—for that is what it is, first
and last —has done for the furtherance of the
game of golf in N.S.W. would, if it could
be measured in terms of numbers, cut a
very poor figure in comparison with its bank
balance.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: Victorian Golf Associa-
tion has fixed the dates for the State ama-
teur championships at August 15-23. Chel-
tenham will be the convincing ground, and
there will be two qualifiers of 18 holes
stroke, 16 to be left in. These will decide
the issue by match-play knockout. The
foursomes title will be played for on
August 15 and 16. The holder of the ama-
teur title is ex-Maorilander Sloan Morpeth,
who, as secretary of the Commonwealth
Club, is now resident in Victoria. The four-
somes championship is in the hands of
W. J. Fowler and R. S. Withers of Com-
monwealth Club.
* * * *
“Luluai”: The rivalry between Papua and
New Guinea was evidenced the other day,
when the lads of the Mandate breed met
in the Rabaul Hotel and formed a golf club
calculated to knock spots off the Port
Moresby institution, which has been receiv-
ing such favorable notices in The Bulletin.
The nine-hole course in the Namanula foot-
hills has already been provisionally laid
out. It was stated by the designer to be
about 2500 yards, to be later extended to
an eighteen-holer of from five to six thousand
yards. The committee that went out to
inspect it by moonlight after the meeting
at the pub came back —those of it who didn’t
decide to stay the night there —convinced it
is one of the longest courses in existence,
while the tendency of the circle of fairways
to revolve at a rapid rate was stated by
experts to be u-n-hic-que.
* * * *
“Miramar”: The seventh professional golf
championship of Maoriland was played off
on Shirley links, near Christchurch, last
week, the' winner being A. J. Shaw, the
Napier professional, who handed in a card
of 285 for the 72 holes, five below the stan-
dard scratch for the course. Shaw has now
won this event for three years in succession.
In addition, he took the M.L. Open in
1926-27-29.
(Continued on page £l.)


[atioi\
Th e
Dog food
Supreme
dg
A perfectly balanced meat ration; keeps
all breeds of dogs in perfect condition.
Composed of clean, wholesome red meat,
oatmeal, fresh onions and cod liver
oil in exactly the right proportions.
In Tins. READY TO SERVE.
A Perfectly-balanced Ration.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB
P. O. Bgx 1821, Melbourne
Ken-T -Ration
Winchester Rifle, Model 56.
22-Cal. Long Rifle only
Handles well
and
Shoots well.
dfg
The Rifle
for Small Game
Price, £5. Post free to all parts of
Australia.
The Gun House,
COWLES DUNN,
453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Catalogue B.
b-J—-
:
ML
I
Jggg
S*E
_ <• •• ••
SIMONIZ
Makes the
Finish Last
Longer
Cars
Kept ~
Beautiful with
SIMONIZ are
Always Beautiful
Everywhere you go you see thousands of
beautiful cars —kept so by Simonizing—and
many of them are two and three years old.
Simoniz Solves the problem of keeping cars
new and beautiful, as well as making the
finish last longer and keeping the colors
from fading.
In fact, Simoniz and, Simoniz Kleener are
regarded as almost indispensable in the care
of Du'co and lacquers, for they make it
possible to retain the lustre and beauty of
these motor-car finishes for years.
There is jio excuse for anyone driving a
cloudy and dull-looking car, for it is so easy
to get wonderful, lasting results with Simoniz
and Simoniz Kleener. Simoniz Kleener
quickly restores the lustre and color by
removing all grime, discolorations and blem-
ishes. Then Simoniz gives lasting beauty
and weatherproof protection.
The sooner you Simoniz your car the better.
NEW CARS should always be Simonized.
Insist on Simoniz and Simoniz Kleener —-
they make the finish last longer.
MOTORISTS WISE SIMONIZ.
Sold by all Good Motor Houses, Service Stations and
Hardware Stores at 2/9 Small Cans; 5/6 Large Cans.
In case you cannot obtain locally, see note below.
M
A
D
E
I
N
A
U
S
T
R
A
L
I
A
t simoniz
J
Wssolves JjM
3
ANOTHER WONDERFUL
SIMONIZ PRODUCT—
SIMONIZ
PENETRATING
GRAPHITE
OIL
“LOOSENS THE TIGHTEST
NUT”
Simoniz Penetrating
Graphite Oil instantly
DISSOLVES RUST,
LUBRICATES CAR
SPRINGS,
STOPS CHASSIS
AND
BODY SQUEAKS,
FREES GUMMED
MOTOR VALVES,
LOOSENS ALL
TIGHT NUTS AND
BOLTS.
Sold in handy Boz. can
with long spout. Price,
2/6. IP YOU CANNOT
OBTAIN SIMONIZ PRO-
DUCTS FROM YOUR
USUAL DEALER, SEND
POSTAL-NOTE TO
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS,
MOTORITE EQUIPMENTS PTY., LTD.,
188-96 Peel Street, North Melbourne.
FREE SAMPLES
OF SIMONIZ AND
KLEENER ON REQUEST.
COliERi
AM
Apply with a cloth
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”; Kaye Don’s shy at the world’s
record for motor-car speed is due at any
moment. Barring accidents, there is little
doubt that his Sunbeam will do all that is
demanded of it. Motor experts are asking how
the Dunlop tyres will stand up to the expected
strain of some 250 m.p.h. Recently The
Bulletin told of the silk fabric tyres with
the rubber solution sprayed on to them and
all question of a tread abolished, since these
would inevitably be thrown off by the spin-
ning wheels. That they will be equal to the
test is assured by the trials to which they
have been subjected by the makers. Their
life is only a matter of minutes, but as the
run over the measured mile each way will
be at most 15 seconds, there will be some-
thing to spare.
$ * *
“Trey”: Three-wheeled cycle-cars, though
comparatively unknown in Australia, are
having a great vogue in Britain and on the
Continent. One of the star performers in
the gadgets is Mrs. Stewart, who has made
a reputation as a motor-cyclist and car-
driver. The lady holds 62 world’s records
in the four classes into which cycle-cars are
divided, the range of these being from five
kilometres to a 12-hours’ run against time.
There are nine records for these cars over
100 m.p.h., and Mrs. Stewart holds seven
of them, her fastest being 106.45 m.p.h. in
a 996 c.c. Morgan J.A.P.
* * * %
“Whizz”: The European motor-cycle
season has started as far as track riding is
concerned. At Berlin the German rider
Henne, on a B.M.W. 750 solo mount, is
alleged to have cut out the kilometre at
the rate of 123.75 m.p.h. As this is the
rider who last year claimed to have done
the mile at a rate of 134 m.p.h., only to have
his claims thrown out on investigation, the
performance needs taking with reserve.
Temple’s figures for the distance stand at
120 m.p.h.
* * * *
“Chain”: Riders at Sydney Velodrome
have had more than their share of falls of
late, and the track experts were puzzled to
explain matters. Investigation showed that
a huge colony of slugs had taken up its
quarters under the board track at one of
the turns. When the electric lights came
on for the racing, the slugs, eager to make
the most of a nice moonlight night, used to
sally forth. The rider unlucky enough to
bump one discovered something new in the
way of sideslips, and became, a case for the
local casualty clearing station. Over 20
riders have had to call on the Zambuks, and
the management has decided to give a free
hand to amateur gardeners and other big-
game hunters prepared to face the risk of
exterminating the dangerous brutes.
* * * *
“Richmond” : The concluding events of the
Australian amateur cycling championships at
Melbourne Motordrome provided followers
of form with food for thought. In the half-
mile event, D. Gray, the N.S.W. and Olym-
pic rider, punctured, so was out of it. In
the 10-mile event he was pocketed or some-
thing, and could not finish in a place. The
half-mile was won by Minelian, a Victorian
WALTER HAGEN, the high panjandrum
of the golfing world, who is now engaged
on a tour of the Australian States with
Joe Kirkwood.
rider, in lmin. 15 l-ssec. —nearly 16sec. worse
than the Australian record. The distance
race was taken by D. McGregor, of N.S.W.,
who was easily beaten in the Ma State cham-
pionships by Gray over the same journey in
20min. 38 4-ssec. W. Knibbs, of South Aus-
tralia, was second, and the time was 22min.
45 4-ssec! No wonder the local press com-
mented that Gray was “hemmed in all the
way to the finish.” Yet nothing was heard
from the stipes.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: The Australian body which
professes to control amateur cycling on this
continent has spurned the Olympic Federa-
tion’s ukase that 6d. per member must be
levied as a contribution to the next Olympic
fund. The objectors will raise what money
may be necessary themselves, and decline to
be saddled with the cost of mere runners
and such persons. Further, they add that
cyclists are under special costs in pursuing
their branch of sport, the necessary purchase
LESLIE BARNETT, owner of Greenline,
winner of the Newmarket Handicap.
of bicycles being cited as an example. It
is a thin tale. A ped. might just as well
plead the cost of running-shoes and shorts,
or a bowler the tariff on drinks and other
essentials. In any case, the cyclists will
have Buckley’s chance of representation
unless they have the endorsement of the
Olympic Council, and if they ride the high
horse they may miss it.
Miscellaneous
“Mat”: This week sees the departure from
our shores of 25 bowlers, the second com-
bination of its kind to tour Britain. Vic-
toria supplies 10 of the players, N.S.W. 7,
South Australia 4, Queensland 3, arid Tassy
1. Westralia didn’t nominate for some reason
or another. There will be 27 matches in
England, while Wales and Ireland will be
toured in due course. Distillery-studded
Scotland has been reserved for the last.
A. TJ. Alley, of Victoria, is the Big Chief of
the team, but N.S.W. has secured the impor-
tant treasurer’s job for A. Rofe.
* % *
“Bias” : Though State bowling authorities
are breaking their necks in attempts to pre-
vent the use of “crook” bowls, the joke goes
merrily on. President John Scott, of the
Australian Bowling Council, recently pointed
out that there was evidence that official
testers were passing bowls that should be
rejected. Perhaps it is not altogether fair
to blame the tester. Any sinfully inclined
bowler may vary the degree of bias in his
woods by the judicious use of a piece of
broken glass as a spokeshave, once the bowl
has passed out of the tester’s hands.
$ * * H=
“Dedans” : The lion pulled a feather out
of the eagle’s tail when Lord Aberdare lifted
the American amateur tennis championship
from Francis Frazier, of Boston. The
Yankees call the old game “court” tennis,
and it has been housed in the Eastern States
since long before the Star-Spangled Banner
came into existence. An American, has not
been beaten on his own ground since Jay
Gould, junior, defended the title against all-
comers over 30 years ago.
* * * *
“Tambour”: Tennis is played a good deal
more in Melbourne and Hobart than
“Dedans” implies (B. 5/3/’3O) and both
cities can boast a string of very fair amateur
performers. Prior to the recent match
between Finch and Stone, Governor Somers,
who swings a hot racquet, turned out to give
the Melbourne professional some practice.
The tall ex-Guardsman also plays a good
game of polo, and hits as hard in the
mounted game as he does within the four
walls of a tennis court. Whether polo
taught him to hit at tennis —and the ancient
game calls for hard punching—or tennis
tuned up his muscles for polo can be left
to conjecture.
Sc * * *
“Pomegranate”: When I was a black-
smith’s striker in a part of Victoria colon-
ised by the Race it was brought home
to me how anaemic indeed tennis and badmin-
ton must appear to an Irishman (B.
5/3/’3O). Good red-blooded shinty was
their game. My boss was noted as a shoe-
smith of shinty clubs, fearful weapons, crossed
between a hockey stick, a hedge-brushing hook
and an abo. nulla-nulla, with a strip
of old ploughshare wrought and curved to
hug the ground bend of the “shtick.” It was
almost a poem to see a shinty star caress
his stick prior to going into action, and
the fourth quarter in a match enabled one
to appreciate what is meant by a “stricken
field.”
:Js * H*
“Ready About”: One result of the Forster
Cup series on Port Phillip for the 21ft.
restricted yachts has been a suggestion that
for open water these glorified open boats
should be designed to more seaworthy speci-
fications. Another, and a less attractive one,
is that each State should in future be con-
fined to one representative, instead of three,
as at present. This has arisen out of allega-
tions that boats from the same State worked
together to put a stopper on a possibly dan-
gerous rival.
H* H*
“Cash Amateur” : N.S.W. swimming autho-
rities have adopted a very haughty attitude
over the case of Victorian McH>affie, who,
after appearing in the Australian champion-
ships, was declared a professional because
he took fees for coaching a Melbourne
athletic team. The N.S.W. crowd hints that
it will press inquiry into the amateur status
of all Victorian swimmers at the next meet-
ing of the Australian controlling body. It
might consider its own position. The other
day it published its acceptance of League
footballers as amateurs. These gentlemen
pouch quite a considerable sum each season
for playing in first-grade club matches alone.
If they are fortunate enough to get a trip
overseas they are paid £4 10s. a week with
a final bonus of £l5O. If they are looked on
as amateurs by the N.S.W. Swimming Ass.,
how on earth can the latter regard McHaffie
as a professional?
* * p * *
“Glide”: “Amity Point” (B. 5/3/’3O) is
right in stating that J. Lyons did not make
the first glider flights in Australia. Gliding
was a popular sport in 1913. Two young
Australians in A. Ormes and R. Williams
made many flights in the Menangle (N.S.W.)
district. Moreover, their gliders (with a
30ft. wing-spread) were built by themselves.
The war put an end to their experiments.
Ormes was killed at Pozieres. Williams was
luckier; he served with the birdmen in
France without mishap.
sp * * %
“Ride Off”: Cabled last week that Aus-
tralia’s first polo team to go overseas had
made a safe landing in England, in spite of
striking a bad patch of weather in the
Mediterranean, which fortunately caused no
casualties among the ponies. Three of the
Ashton brothers were with the mounts, and
the fourth, with emergency R. M. Bell, left
Sydney last week by an Orient liner. Ponies
and team are quartered for the present at
Malmesbury, in Wiltshire, a county of which
some of the.A.I.F. may.cherish affectionate
remembrance.
* * h: #
“Hottiam”: The Vic. Football League has
jumped with hobnailed feet on the yearly
increasing expenditure by clubs on crack
footballers, some of whom were drawing in
cash and kind up to £2O a week for most of
the year. In future, no League player will
be permitted to draw more than £3 per
premiership match, or more than £2
bonus per match. Other rules provide that
metropolitan and country players intending
to play in Melbourne must not receive more
than 10s. per week and £2 10s. per week
respectively, nothing to be paid before March
30. One club has already contracted with a
countryman for £lO a week, a billet for
a fixed period, and special instruction in
his trade during that period. However, no
rules seem to have touched on the amounts
a “coach” may draw, and with this loophole
high-salaried instructors should be as thick
as bookmakers’ tickets at Flemington “after
the larst.”
* % * *
“Fitzcray”: They take their football seri-
ously in Williamstown (Vic.). The other
day it was announced by the sub-district
association that several teams which had
distinguished themselves last year by rough
and brutal play would this time be required
to lodge substantial cash bonds, to be for-
feited if deliberate rough behavior be proved.
It may be only a coincidence, but at the
same meeting this band of brothers elected a
president named Bliss, and 'a v.-p. yclept
Pain.
sis ❖ # *
“Bowen Park”: The Queensland Rugby
Union opens its second season since recon-
struction with greatly improved prospects.
Warwick and Toowoomba have returned to
the old code, and, as in Brisbane, whole clubs
formerly playing the professional game have
shaken it off. In Brisbane, the only draw-
back is the inability to get wholly enclosed
grounds for the club competitions, these
having been secured on leases of varying
length by the League organisation and the
Soccer body, this last also a declared pro-
fessional concern now, and functioning as a
limited liability co. on a profit-sharing basis.


1, 1 1 !
fc'.n !.i >
11 \i
\
\“i
\\
/ '
■YM
V
'I
f
('
II
Ll
•H
i»i«
iiV
V/V
n
TV
r
■v =
CT|
.
i
%
a>
: 3
Even after 40,000 miles
Willys-Knight has high resale value
MANY authentic reports from the used car
market strongly support the claim that
the Knight engine actually grows more
efficient, smoother and quieter with use, and
consequently has a much higher resale value
than other types of engines.
The new 1930 Willys-Knight sixes are distin-
guished by outstanding beauty of line, color
and finish, and by such smoothness of per-
formance as only the patented double sleeve-
valve engine can give. The price of the new
Willys-Knight sixes is the lowest at which so
large and powerful a Knight-engined car has
ever been offered. The fewer working parts
and the high compression of the patented
double sleeve-valve engine assure its owner of
absolute minimum service costs, together with
exceptional economy of operation.
See your nearest Willys-Overland Dealer. He will
gladly arrange a demonstration .
GJlie 1930
WILLYS-KNIGHT
70“ B
STATE DISTRIBUTORS
E. G. EAGER & SON, LTD., Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, Brisbane, Q.
nun cmlTU A T TCTD A 1 t A I TH CS_7n pMulflln StfPPf Q A
ADAMS MOTORS, LTD., 442 Murray Street, Perth, W.A.
OVERLAND SYDNEY., LTD., 148-150 Castlereagh Street. Sydney, N.S.W.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD., 53-63 Bathurst Street, Hobart, Tasmania.


H
■:
'
■ H
n
r*
-
Si
m
■ ■■ Po'. \
m
u
m
.
y'y. : ;
u
mam
S
■ m , v.
■
m
-w
11
a
k
i
g
I? 1;
11
H
f
r
<3
FOR THE MODE-RN MODE
HOSIERY


<33
The centre of Queens/onc/s
' d/sfinguisfred Soc/o/ Life.
Wot cl
RDISP
BRISBANE
=-
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane #
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Lines .
ra
dfg
Food
v/ V TRADB MA&VL
TFnfe /or booklet to;-~ BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
Better health
in old age
The imperfect digestion of food
is a frequent cause of under
nourishment.
A nightly cup of Benger’s Food
greatly improves the general
health. It is most easily
digested and very nourishing.
From, a Nurse: —
“My father, who is old, has your food
every day. We always think the cup he
takes at bedtime has a most soothing effect.”
Under
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
ToH.M.
Kin£>
GeorgeV
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company U mi tad
SYDNEY.
Champagne
Chaiiesllddsieo^
REIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Have you
ordered
Kraft Cheese?
Three women headed the prize list in The
Bulletin’s First Novel Competition and
carried away flOOO between them; tjhis year
it looked as though no woman at all would
be among the winners. Then, just as the
list was sent to the printer, word came from
somewhere at the back of Surat in Queens-
land that Kay Glasson Taylor, the winner
of second honors, wasn’t the male person
that had been assumed. Like the joint
authors of “A House Is Built,” one of last
year’s winners, she used to be a Sydney Uni.
student; in those days her name was
Glasson. But she has married since then.
Rotarians from China, from Japan, from
India and from America have been dropping
into Sydney all the week, their faces turned
to the Third Pacific Rotary Conference. The
sessions will be held in David Jones’s audi-
torium, but the entertainments take in a
wide sweep and range from yesterday morn-
ing’s reception in the Town Hall to parties
in the Point Piper home of Japan’s Consul-
General, Mr. Inone. In between, the bone
of good fellowship will be picked at the
Australia, along the South Coast and at
Palm Beach. The secretary of the Tokio
Rotary Club has brought his daughter with
him and Mr. Tadao Okazaki has brought
his wife and daughter. These ladies wear
their pretty national costume when they go
abroad. The two younger ones speak English
very well, and are addicted to sport. Miss
Ivimito Okazaki has paid the Rotarians a
delicate compliment by bringing with her. a
special obi, into which is worked the six-
spoked wheel of Rotary. She sounds like
Kobe’s greatest heiress, for father is presi-
dent of banking, shipping and insurance
companies, as well as a vice-president of
the Kobe Chamber of Commerce.
Lady de Chair went last week to the
dahlia show in the Town Hall. So did
this Letter. Her Ex. went to open the show,
the Letter to open mouth and eyes at the
opulent beauty rioting along the avenues.
Here was purple magnificence such as the
Csesars never dreamed of, towering like some
amazing busby above a very erect soldier.
The stems of some were an inch thick, and as
straight as the guard at Buckingham Palace.
Burgundy, tawny, deep gold, pink, they
stood superb and arrogant. But a dahlia,
however beautiful, always brings to mind
the golf story of the lady at Wollongong,
who, going round the links for the first time,
pulled a petal from the rose she w T ore each
time her driver missed the ball. At the ninth
hole she called it a day, and, shouldering her
bag, said to the caddy: “Perhaps you could
suggest something for me to try to-morrow.”
The caddy eyed her stonily. “Ah, well,” he
replied slowly, “you might wear a dahlia.”
Not to know “Mitchell of the Australia”
is to confess that you really don’t know' the
high lights of Sydney. Mitchell has got to
such altitudes that he is spoken of by
surname without prefix, as one speaks of
Disraeli and Mussolini. A group of much-
travelled women talking the other day
decided, after weighing head waiters in Paris,
Rome and London, that there was a subtlety
iu the -way Mitchell handled his patrons that
left nothing to be said. His recognition is
sought by the newcomers as by the Aus-
“Here’s Someboay of
Importance.”
tralia addict. He
can convey the
accolade by his
reception of you at
the portals of the
long room, so that
even in these days
of democracy other
diners sit up and
say, “Here’s some-
body of importance
—a member of the
nobility, o r
maybe a book-
maker in the
grand man-
ner.” It is
said that great
ladies have
lost their
hearts to Mit-
chell, and that
he is simply
worn out re-
fusing the
gifts of I’ajahs
and plenipo-
tentiaries. His mail is so heavy with
coronets that the Federal authorities seri-
ously consider imposing a luxury tax.
But disaster nearly overtook him once.
He was nearly given the 0.8. E. If
he had been a shade less the perfect head-
waiter nothing could have saved him. But
in the end H.Ii.H. Wales intervened on his
behalf, and his face was saved.
Mitchell has been at the Australia for
39 years. He arrived a month after the
hotel opened, thereby just missing Sarah
Bernhardt and the grand opening. The Bern-
hardt signature is still a treasure of the hotel
—Sarah, writing from corner to corner, took
the whole page. Even in those far-off days
the Americanisation of Sydney had begun,
for the manager, being imported from the
U.S.A., arranged that the big hotel should
open with a grand Fourth of July dinner,
with Daniel O’Connor a prominent speaker.
The actor O’Toole and Nellie Farrar are
among early notables recollected. To Irving
the younger, and every musician, singer and
artist of note visiting this continent during
nearly four decades Mitchell has been a
sort of official host.
Wool is in everybody’s mouth, so to speak,
and just now there’s a moral to the spun
yarn. For if we don’t use more wool the
art-silk goblins will eat us all up ; wherefore
the flapper who declares in public that she
loves the feel of silk next to the skin is
looked upon as a traitor to her nation. Syd-
ney especially is taking the matter of the
fail in wool prices very seriously, and a
Wear More Wool campaign will synchronise
with the declining temperatures of April.
Every industry of the State is represented
on the executive and general committees,
and nearly 150 turned up last week at the
first meeting in David Jones’s auditorium.
Here were sheepbreeders and wooldealers;
economics in the person of Professor Brig-
den ; hygiene represented by Professor David
and Dr. Arthur, and, best of all, every
woman’s movement in the city—Housewives,
Progressive Housewives, Feminists, United
Associates, Country Women’s Association,
and Labor women, the last in the person of
Kate Dwyer. But though they had assembled
with the fires of patriotism burning within
them, this Letter dearly would have loved
to know what percentage of wool there was
beneath their outer garments. Two women
are on the executive committee of the cam-
paign—Mrs. Muscio and Janet Mitchell, the
latter the director of the Thrift department
of the Government Savings Bank.
A model of quaint old Elizabeth Farm
(now the home of the historical Miss Swan),
where sheep-breeding was started, will be a
feature of a Golden Fleece Pageant to be
held in David Jones’s next month.
A friend w T ho was quite a beau thirty or
forty years ago tells stories about the heart-
burning and strivings which in those days
tormented the Sydneyites who were not born
in society’s sheepfold, but aspired to estab-
lish themselves therein. In those days Syd-
ney had a society. You were either in or
hopelessly out. One little set of families
governed the roost,
and they gave the
dinner-parties and
balls to which the
fashionable w r orld
went. A thing was
done or it wasn’t
done; if a new-
comer did one of
the things not done
he was an outsider,
thou oil if one of
the inner circle did
it lie was
a humorist,
or maybe the
pioneer of a
new custqm.
The picture
of the female
Nero reward-
ing the an-
tics of the
gtrivers i n
the circus
with thumbs
“The Female Nero”
up or dowrn,
herself watched closely by circles of
lesser grandees whose thumbs went like-
wise up or down, filled this Letter
with a great delight. In the Sydney of
to-day there are a hundred or more different
circles, any as rich, ? cultured, uncultured,
flamboyant or discreetly indiscreet as the
other. ’ Each set has its own meetings,
greetings, scandals and round of gaieties in
complete independence of other circles, and
each from its water-tight compartment turns
the eye of appraisement on its neighbors.
Everybody is “in society”—the remnants of
the old set of humans who regarded them-
selves more or less as a close secret cor-
poration are now spoken of by this post-
war world of cabaret and aerial week-ends
as “nice but dull; no go at all, my dear!”
That has even been said of a lady who in
her day had the casting vote as to whether
a future viscount visiting Australia should
really be received into Potts Point and
Darling Point homes.
The Lyceum Club got in early with its
farewell to Lady de Chair; it staged its
party last week. Twenty other maelstroms
the Vicereine has faced or is to face. No
cocktails either as a gentle anaesthetic during
the speeches, for the Lady is a strict “dry.”
Mrs. Sung, wife of the Chinese Consul-
General, is a great scholar, deeply versed in
the history and politics of her country. In
her the spirit of nationhood is very strong,
and when she is a guest of honor at official
or semi-official parties she wears the costume
of the women of her country.
Revolutions have shorn the heads of the
Chinese and set up a republic where once
there was a throne, but the old reverence
for the dead still remains firmly entrenched.
The fifth anniversary of the death of the
doctor who was the honorable founder of
the new order
occurred last week,
and it was com-
memorated in Syd-
ney in a manner
that for all his
progressive notions
Sun Yet Sen would
have approved. The
offices of the
Chinese Consul-
General wrnre
closed to o ffi c i a 1
business, the
national flag was
flown half-mast all
day, and behind
shut doors a mem-
orial service was
held at noon, dur-
ing which China’s
newly-arrived Con-
sul-General Sung
reverently address-
ed the spirt of the
departed leader.
II o w transitory,
that makes bales
and cargoes, Cus-
to m duties and
even the clang of
arms! One likes
to think of Sun
Yat Sen, a pigeon
on the roof, a cloud
in the sky, hover-
ing above the
Consul-General Sung
reverently addressed
the spirit of the de-
parted.
streets of Sydney listening to the message
of his countryman.
The week was not complete without a visit
to the Lyceum to see Disraeli, with George
Arliss as the great Prime Minister. That
there can ever be another screen Disraeli to
equal Arliss this Letter doubts; that the
pork-pie hats, with their sweep of plume on
the one side and a sort of little frilled
d’oyley peeping from the other, could ever
have been worn more enchantingly than by
the girl Clarissa this Letter doubts, too.
The slender waist, the high bust and the
bustle effects of the period do not seem
nearly the monstrosities w r e used to think
them"; or is it merely that one’s eye is
already trained to them by the new waist-in
bust-out silhouette.
With his love of the grandiloquent and
his mania for acting, if Disraeli had lived
to-day there would have been only one job
for him. He would have been a movie pro-
ducer, of course. In fact, one can imagine
that even now, in the realm where good
Prime Ministers and impeccable Queens go,
the amusement columns shriek:—
SUEZ!
The latest Five-Million Pound Disraeli Production.
See
Victoria Queen of England and Empress of India
as leading lady.
Suez.
A stirring drama vibrant of the East and depicting
the abandoned orgies of the Orient,
5000 Nautch Girls in
The Dance of Love.
Passionate with a Russian Motif but kept sane and
pure by British Ideals.
Disraeli presents the Only Victoria.
Australian Jewry conducts its Purim cele-
brations very decorously; and in that spirit
the Feast of Esther was celebrated last
week. The quietness is strange to new
arrivals from the Continental Jewries, where
the Purim festival is a sort of Guy Fawkes
carnival with the hated Haman as the Guy.
At the Purim services there it is the habit to
applaud during the reading of the Scroll of
Esther when the names of Mordecai and
Esther occur; Hainan is greeted with sounds
of disgust, the scraping of feet, and even
spitting. When a new arrival, undisturbed
by the looks of horror and disgust of those
around him, started to show' his detestation
of the enemy of Israel in the manner to
which he was accustomed, he attracted the ;
shocked attention of some of the elders of
a Sydney suburban synagogue; and it was
a stunned stranger who kept silent for the
rest of the service.
An unusual but welcome visitor called at
B. E. Minns’s exhibition the other morning.
Her name was Nellie Walker and her man-
ners were as good as her blood was pure
aborigine. She came diffidently to the door
and asked if she could see the artist, and
explained to Mr. Bennett, -who is managing
the. show, that she w r as an old model of the
artist’s. Long before he went for the first
time to England, Minns used to paint her
and her father. For years Nellie had read
of his work; and now, when she learned that
there wms a whole show of the members
of her race, she felt she would like to look
up her old friend. Just at this point of her
story Minns arrived and remembered her at
once, and the visitor was treated to a per-
sonally conducted tour of the pictures. At
parting Nellie shyly produced an exquisite
boomerang, carved by her nephew, and pre-
sented it to the artist.
Two of Sydney’s eligible and it was long
thought arrow-impregnable doctors were wed
on the same night last w r eek, and the bride
of each chose St. Philip’s for the wedding.
Dr. Robert J. Noble, biologist of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, son of a former popular
school inspector, secured Joan Doris Bullen
for the term of his natural life; and Dr.
Arthur Chapman, of Macquarie-street, and
Nell Paton will in future have the same
address in the directory—it will be Lindfield,
as a matter of fact. Padre W. Hilliard,
headmaster of Trinity Grammar, tied the
first knot, and Padre Ebbs w r as responsible
for the second.
The death of Mrs. W. G. Conley will
leave a gap in the ranks of the Sydney Hos-
pital Auxiliary. She was one of its most con-
sistent and unobtrusive workers. The Darling
Point District Nursing Association will also
feel her loss. The lady survived by only
one year her husband, the forceful W. G.
Conley, who by sheer ability became . first
general manager of the “S. M. Herald” and
afterwards a director of John Fairfax and
Sons, Ltd., being the first person other than
a Fairfax to attain the latter dizzy eminence.
A son and a daughter are left in mourning.
Mrs. Conley was a Blackburn of Single-
ton.
If ever you want to feel like Neptune’s
daughter, this Letter recommends you to a
quiet hour with the Prussian carp at the
Aquarium. You can pretend that the glass
<tanks set into the sides of the rocky grot-
toes are so many windows, each framing a
different scene in marine life, such as the
Sea King’s daughters probably behold as
they proceed about their task or their
toilets. These grottoes go winding up from
the bottom gate of the Zoo, and peering out
at the visitor are fish yellow as a banner
of Spain, blue as the sky, mauve as a twi-
light mist. Here are leather-jackets flaunt-
ing a golden poppy on their sides, and there
are red carp so gold you’d think the wealth
of King Solomon’s mines had gone to their
making.
There is something literary and Ingoldsby
Legendish about the Carps, and when a plump
matron of the family goggled an eye sus-
piciously at the approach of a stranger, and
then wheeled disdainfully with a swish of
her delicately-tinted fins (not at all unlike
the fashionable, uneven hem-lines in strips of
chiffon 1, you felt as though you’d been
Lady Carp Disdains Her Poor Neighbors.
refused membership of the Lyceum Club. The
Carps are a gaudy family, addicted, one
would think, to the restaurant life, and very
different from neighbor Minnows, who live
in a retiring manner compared with the
gilded plutes beside them. Opposite is the
sporting Mullet family, all in striped foot,
ball jerseys. You suspect the Minnows of
being the Dorcas Society of the Marine
Suburbs. The Garibaldis splash with a crim-
son-gold sunset one side of a rocky fastness,
parrot-fish flash in spangled radiance, the
athletic gurnards seem almost to walk and
fly, and not far away the highly-strung and
delicate seahorse curvets constantly—in
training, liis valet says, for the Taronga
Cup. Green fish, fish green with orange
stripes, platinum, bits of Satsuma, cubist,
futuristic, slim, plump, mouse-headed, trian-
gular, contented —each school goes about its
affairs in its own wmrld.
And here’s another kiddie story —this one
from the country. Mary was eight . and
being prepared for her first musie examina-
tion. “What does ’samination mean?” asked
baby Ann. “Oh,” said brother Bill, a blase
six,' “you go into a room and come out ■with
a blue ribbon, like the bull at the show.”


Legal Notices.
TO ROBERT ATKINSON of Cordillo
A Downs station in the State of South
Australia Boundary-rider.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing
date the 10th day of August 1929 has been
issued in the Supreme Court of South Aus-
tralia citing you to appear and answer the
Petition of DORIS BLANCHE ATKIN-
SON of 337 Angas Street Adelaide in the
said State praying for a dissolution of her
marriage with you on the ground of desertion
during five years and upwards since the said
marriage AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE
that you are within 30 days of this publi-
cation to attend in person or by your solici-
tor at the office of the Master Supreme
Courthouse Victoria Square Adelaide and
there enter an appearance in the suit In
default of your so appearing you will not be
allowed to address the Court and the Court
will proceed to hear the said Petition proved
and pronounce judgment in respect thereto
in your absence.
DATED this 12th day of March 1930.
W. L. STUART.
Master.
S. L. Maddeford, Alliance Building, Gren-
fell Street, Adelaide, Solicitor for the Peti-
TO the Father, Mother, Brothers, Sisters,
Nephews and Nieces of ALFRED
GATELY, Who Died Intestate at Bortons,
in New Zealand, on the 24th Day of Decem-
ber, 1928, and to All Persons claiming by
through or under them.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
28tli day of February, 1930, by a Judge of
the Supreme Court of New Zealand you are
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the 30th day of June,
1930, your claims to the estate of the above-
named deceased, failing which the said estate
will be distributed amongst those entitled
thereto disregarding your claims.
DATED at Wellington this 28th day of
February, 1930.
G. G. ROSE.
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
RE NICHOLAS EDMUND BYRNES or
BYRNE, Deceased.
TO THOMAS BYRNE, and to all persons
claiming by or through him.
The Public Curator of Queensland as
administrator of the estate of Nicholas
Edmund Byrnes, late of Gladstone in the
State of Queensland, Stockman, Deceased,
hereby requires you to prove on or before the
thirtieth day of September, 1930, your
claim to share in the distribution of the
estate of the said deceased. After that date
the Public Curator will proceed to distribute
the estate having regard only to those claims
of which he shall then have received notice.
Claims must be proved by affidavit properly
supported by relative certificates of birth,
etc
J. B. O’DUFFY,
Local Deputy Public Curator,
Rockhampton, Queensland.
N.8.-—The above-named Nicholas Edmund
Byrnes or Byrne is believed to have been
born at Knockmahon, Castlewarren, in the
County of Kilkenny, on September 19, 1842.
Missing Friends.
JOHN HUTTON RITCHIE, son of the
J late John Ritchie and Georgeen Ritchie,
of Geelong, Victoria, last heard of in Perth.
W.A., in September, 1905, is requested to
communicate with THE UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY, No. 333 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne.
For Workshop
Home & Farm
rz
SIEVERT
*^®Ckhol
716
A genuine Sievert Blow Lamp for motorists,
radio work and general use. Every household
and workshop has need of a Blow Lamp at
times. The low price of 7/6 brings the
Sievert within reach of all.
Approximately 5 inches high.
Burns for an hour at one filling.
Supplied with special safety valve and a patent
self-cleaning device.
Petrol can be used down to the last drop.
Directions supplied with each lamp.
£J£PKerson§)
PTY., LTD.
SYDNEY ...
MELBOURNE
51 Bathurst Street
582 Collins Street
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to lenow.
&
Craig &Aitken
WholesaleDisfributoi.s
Sidney N.S.W.
dg
THE PLUM RAZOR.
NOW NEATLY CASED at same price!
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 ~
Real Ivory Handle • 21/- u
Satin-lined Double Case free with pair.
7-day Sets—7 Razors in Case—Black, 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory, 140/-
Each Razor ready set for use and guaranteed kept in order for two years
free of charge. Post Free to any address.
New Blade Razor Guards. Convert your Plum into a safety razor 3 sizes,
to fit fin., tin. and |in. blades .. . . 2/- each
For any blade razor—adjustable to all sizes 2/6 each
Other Specialities:
PLUM Strops, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6 each
Strop Dressing 1/3 per tube
Shaving Cream, Giant Size, 2/- per tube
Shaving Tablet, round .... 6d. each
Post
Witch Hazel—after-shave Liquid
Cream 2/- bottle
Oil of Roses Hairdressing, 1/3 bottle
Crystallised Brilliantine ... 1/3 jar
Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLET IN ’
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
it
S 3?
f-
iJroJ*
mm
Wlt 1 \
\ v N >
IS
0
without Benedictine \
D** *“»
Benedictine adds a delightful
piquancy to every cocktail, and
gives it, in addition, a pleasing
bouquet. The modern hostess knows
that a dash of Benedictine in her
cocktails stamps them as something
different and distinctive. And when
she serves Benedictine as an after-
dinner liqueur she wins the further
appreciation of her guests.
Benedidtine has been the World’s
Supreme Liqueur since 1510
BENEDICTS
Legal Notice.
Fthe supreme court of
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 67 of 1980.
BETWEEN BRIDGET LOUISA BARRY
Petitioner and THOMAS EDWARD
JOHN BARRY Respondent.
TO THOMAS EDWARD JOHN BARRY
late of Turramurra.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Bridget
Louisa Barry has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at a proper office
of this Honorable Court oh or before the
Sixth day of June One thousand nine hun-
dred and' thirty and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed
and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
Petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this eleventh day of March 1930.
Richard Denis Meagher, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
For the Registrar,
[L.S.] D. C. DEAN,
Acting Chief Clerk in Divorce.
A New Set of
LODGE
PLUGS
is a wonderful stimulus
to your Engine.
Model C. T., as illustrated.
Suitable for most American
Cars.
£ii!ii!U!ii!iiimiiiimiii!mmimmumimmimmtm:
o
m
m
m
i j 1 11 11 1 11 11 1 1 ii 11 m 1 11 1 mi ii 11 ii 11 1 ii
LODGE PLUGS, Ltd,
RUGBY, ENG.
IN SEALED
METAL BOX
4
6/-
m
*
Traction
Weed Tyre Chains grip
and hold in mud, sand or
slippery clay—provide
safe, sure traction on
treacherous or uncertain
roads.
Drive safely. Carry
Weed Tyre Chains al-
ways. Look for the name
“Weed” on every hook.
Order from your dealer.
AMERICAN CHAIN CO.
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
WEED
TYRE CHAINS


Monday to Friday,
A la Carte Dining and Supper
Service.
Minimum charge 7/6. Dancing till
1 a.m. Evening Dress Optional.
0
SATURDAY LATE GALA NIGHT.
Special Table d’hote Dinner, 21/-
Special Supper from 10 o’clock,
12/6; or a la Carte, minimum, 12/6
Afternoon Tea Dansant—
Monday to Friday, 3.30 to 5.30, 2/6
Saturday, 4/-
’Phone M4l 3 1 for your reservation.
88^
IN
mi
St. George
»—and fast becoming Australia’s. Tiny inch-long fisb,
unique in flavour, whitebait is found only in sparkling
New Zealand streams, then for but three months of the
year.
You, however, can have it the year round, with all its
original freshness and flavour, for it is canned on the
banks of the rivers the same day as it is caught.
Try it. St. George Canned Whitebait will give you a
new meaning for the word “delicious.”
IRVINE AND STEVENSON’S
ST. GEORGE COMPANY, Ltd
Dunedin New Zealand
ST* GEORGE Delicacies
• **
New Zealand's
Greatest Delicacy-
SEASONS MAY COME and
SEASONS MAY G O,—
But the holiday appeal of
Mt. Buffalo
National Park
never varies.
Spring, summer, autumn and winter
alike, the mountain scenery is the
finest in Australia, just as the Gov-
ernment Chalet is the finest holiday-
house in Australia.
Consult the
Government Tourist Bureaux,
Queen’s Walk, Melbourne, or
Martin Place, Sydney.
MEN ARE HUMAN
BY VANCE PALMER.
i llu err
DARYL- LINDS/Y-
Synopsis : Boyd McCurdie had
left Abernethy station before the
war to study law in Sydney, where
he enlisted. There were other rea-
sons for his going. His mother had
been dead some years, and his father
had proposed marrying again. Also,
old McCurdie’s dominating energy had
rather overwhelmed him. Meanwhile,
McCurdie had married, but his young
wife had never become quite recon-
ciled to station life. McCurdie, who
had represented his electorate in Par-
liament, had lost the seat over too-
pronounced utterances during the
war, and financial troubles had made
him sell out various station and other
interests and concentrate on Aber-
nethy. The story begins with him
anxiously awaiting Boyd’s return after
years at the tear. At Abernethy
Boyd feels influences at worlc to
hold him to the station. He meets
again Josie Duncan, who has black
blood in her and is the home-
stead housemaid. Also, he is visited
by Barbara Mahon—as she formerly
ivas. She has married during Boyd’s
absence a doctor named Day, and is
temporarily up from Sydney, house-
keeping for her brother Leo. Boyd
senses that there has been a break
between Barbara and her husband.
He visits Barbara several times, and
eventually decides to stay, though his
father does not like to give over the
reins altogether. Boyd dislikes and
distrusts Billy Mace, a rolling-stone
horsebreaker, who is paying some atten-
tion to Josie. Mrs. McCurdie (Ada),
who knows Barbara is in love with
Boyd, goes with McCurdie for a holi-
day. Barbara becomes moody towards
Boyd, and does not answer a note he
has written. Boyd finds that she has
returned to her husband, Returning
home after this discovery, Boyd comes
upon Mace, spying on Josie bathing.
He is furious; and a quarrel develops.
CHAPTER XVII ( Continued ).
BOYD had not known how he intended
to deal with Mace before, but now the
matter was taken out of his hands and
he could not shirk the issue. The half-caste
was dealing wild blows at. his face, and
behind the barrier of moving fists he could
see the dilated nostrils and the dark eyes
rimmed with white. Passion had gone from
his brain, which worked with a clearness
that surprised himself. Yet the conscious
flow of his ideas was reduced to one
thought; that if he failed now before this
circle of watching eyes he would never be
able to hold his head up again in the com-
pany of either black men or white.
He sparred for time, trying to stem the
fury of Mace’s first rush of energy. Physi-
cally they were well matched, though Mace
had the longer reach, and his lithe arms
seemed to be made of flexible steel. The
blacks gathered round in a circle, awed
into silence, and showing no sympathy with
either side. Mace had laid a spell on their
minds with his flashness and showy ways,
but they had no affection for him in their
hearts and no sense of kinship. If he won
they would cover him with glib flatteries,
and if he lost their humor would play
about him like a scorching flame. They
circled round with staring eyes, making no
sound save an occasional grunt when a blow
got home. A little apart from the rest
the hawker stood motionless, an uneasy
expression on his face, and his trousers
sagging round his lean hips.
“I have nothing to do with all this,” his
dark eyes seemed to be saying, “nothing at
all. How should I know what it’s all
about?”
Boyd’s hat had fallen from his head and
his shirt was torn open at the throat. He
tried to keep cool and reserve his strength,
I but the half-caste’s fists were continually
in his face, closing his eyes and making the
| world rock around him.
It came to him that Mace must have
fought since he was a boy, picking up know-
ledge and skill in travelling shows and in
brawls at the back of wayside shanties.
There was an uncanny swiftness and ease
in all his movements, and his dark eyes
had a mesmeric power. Except for an occa-
sional bout with the gloves, he himself had
not fought since he was at school, so that
his muscles were slow and each hand like
a weight at the end of a string. He was
conscious of his boots slipping on the dry
ground, and his imagination worked more
quickly than his fists. He was down!
The blacks had gathered grinning round
him, and Mace was standing over him with
triumphant eyes Someone (was it his
father?) was telling him that he had grown
soft, and that he was cut out for a lawyer
rather than a cattleman.... Josie Duncan
had come down to the other bank of the
creek, and was gazing over at the horse-
breaker in mute admiration
He found himself on his feet, and sud-
denly became aware that Mace’s jaw was
unprotected. Mace’s knees crumpled be-
neath him, and he fell as a pole-axed bul-
lock falls, lying still for a few minutes and
then rolling over on his stomach and raising
himself on his hands. For awhile he re-
mained on all fours, staring at the ground
in dazed fashion; and Boyd stood looking
at him stupidly, an odd feeling of shame
taking possession of him. Then a voice he
did not recognise as his own said coolly:
“Well, Mace, had enough?”
To his surprise the half-caste drew him-
self with difficulty to his feet and stumbled
over in the direction of the horses, looking
straight ahead of him. Perhaps it was
the calm question, hinting at vast reserves
of strength, that had overwhelmed him;
perhaps his mind was dazed.
The blacks dispersed quietly, whispering
together in couples, and Boyd ambled back
to the homestead, being violently sick on
the way. There was no sense of triumph in
his blood, and his mind was dull and torpid.
CHAPTER XVIII.
Surrender.
Later on, fortified by a good meal and
a few nips of rum from the decanter on the
side-table, he lay on the lounge with his
pipe in his mouth, living over again the
fight of the afternoon. His flesh was still
tingling with Mace’s blows, and the scene
was before his hot eyes, while a rhythm
in his blood repeated over and over his
physical sensations. He fended and side-
stepped, slipping on the grass, and shooting
his arm out straight from the shoulder when
Mace’s guard dropped. Smells, powerful
and exciting, were borne in upon him, the
odor of dust, of cooking meat, of Mace’s
sweating body. Yet above this life of the
senses there presided a sardonic self, that
reminded him he had cut a rather absurd
figure.
“A nice position for you to find yourself
in,” it twitted him. “Scrapping with a flash
half-caste before a crowd of blacks who’d
have made life impossible for you by their
ridicule if you’d gone down! Lost your
head, didn’t you, when you caught sight
of Mace there? What was behind it all?”
The figure of the half-caste, camped
somewhere out there in the mulga, brood-
ing on his injuries and fearing the ridicule
of the camp more than death itself, came
hauntingly before his mind. Now that the
struggle was over, and his imagination had
regained its freedom, he could enter Mace’s
thoughts and see the world through his
eyes. The poor devil was mad about Josie,
most likely. And it was the sight of the
switch in his hand that had made him leap
up in that tigerish way. He hadn’t meant
to use it, but Mace couldn’t know that.
And had there been any intention of defy-
ing him in the half-caste’s mind, after all,
when he started off in the morning? Hadn’t
the sight of the men playing cards proved
too much for him, so that he had slipped
from his horse to take a hand, and forgot-
ten how time was going?
“Bah! What does it matter, anyway?”
he muttered, rising and going to the side-
table for another nip of rum. “The fellow
was feeling his oats and needed a hiding
badly. He’ll be a different man from now
on.”
It had always been his weakness to re-
act against any strong line he had taken,
to have an aftersight of himself in ridiculous
attitudes. He knew that in the same cir-
cumstances his father would have no doubts.
In the many conflicts the old man had been
engaged in, the certain knowledge he was
wholly right had been his chief support,
compensating him for all the hostility he
had roused against him. That was the main
cleavage between them. In a crisis they
might act in the same way, but it would be
with different feelings, and with a different
sense of satisfaction afterwards. There was
that affair at the El Arish well his father
was always bringing up, though the Lord
alone knew how he had heard of it! A
hot, sweltering day at the end of a long
ride, with the men all out to it, and some
of them, particularly big Quinlan, angry
and mutinous when ordered not to drink
till the water was tested. He had been
forced to whip out his revolver and threaten
to shoot the first man that drank; but
how he had paid for it afterwards! Dreams
of the men rushing with oaths, and big
Quinlan, whom he loved more than any of
them, lying dead at his feet. Or rather at
the feet of that stiff automaton in uniform
that was his external self. An increased
sense of being one person by day and an-
other by night—the feeling that had
haunted him as a boy when he did dare-
devil things to please his father. No, it
was not an affair he liked looking back
upon.
A muffled sound of footsteps came from
the kitchen, where Josie was washing the
dishes, moving about softly as if afraid of
breaking the silence of the still house. There
had been a strange timidity about her when
she was clearing the table," and he had
caught her eyes watching his as he lit
his pipe. It was obvious that she knew
about the fight but was too shy to talk
about it. Her very voice had been low
and hesitating, and her movements waver-
ing and uncertain. Once when she dropped
a knife and he stooped to pick it up their
heads had almost touched, and there had
been a few moments of self-consciousness
and confusion. He recalled her little jerky
laugh, the flush under her eyes, the scent
that came from her hair. What was her
interpretation of the fight? That it was
on her account they had hurled themselves
at one another?
“All rot!” he repeated to himself. “She’s
got to get that idea out of her head. I’ve
never led her to believe by a word or
100 k”....
Yet he was uneasy at the fluttering of his
own blood when he remembered they were
alone in the house. He moved about the
room restlessly, picking up objects without
looking at them, and conscious of the sound
his footsteps made on the linoleum.
Through the open French-lights he could
see down the long passage that led to the
kitchen, the door of which was slightly ajar.
The yellow light of the wall-lamp showed
Josie with her back turned, her hands in
the tin dish, her body relaxed, and her eyes
apparently fixed on nothing. The stillness
of her attitude affected the man profoundly.
It was as if she were listening to something
he could faintly hear himself. Perhaps, he
reflected, she knew better than he did why
he had quarrelled with Mace. Perhaps she
had known all along it would come to
blows
He turned to the bookcase, his eyes wan-
dering over the scanty rows of books in
desultory fashion. Reading had never been
a passion of his, but now he wanted some-
thing to still the restlessness of his mind.
The books, for the most part, had been
left by the last tutor fifteen years before,
but there were a few his father read con-
tinually and made his own—Balzac, Dumas,
Boldrewood, Nat Gould. It was a mixed
collection, but the old man remained faith-
ful to it with a deep and narrow loyalty.
He knew the characters of these books
better than the people around him, and
applied whatever philosophy they contained
to the circumstances of his own life. Yet
there was no deliberate choice in the selec-
tion, and any other shelf of books he had
grown accustomed to would have served
just as well.
Boyd’s eyes fell on the two big, leather-
bound volumes of Taylor’s “Book of the
Horse.” It had been one of the landmarks
of his childhood, and as he took the first
volume out and laid it on the table the
smell of pressed flowers and the sight of
the colored plates brought old associations
back vividly to his mind. What deep and
abiding joy that book had held for him!
He had gone over it often, sitting on his
father’s knee, the glare of the lamp making
the letters dance before his eyes as he
spelt out the name of the Godolphin Arab
and all the other famous sires. There were
lean racehorses with bodies of satin and
legs of steel, swift steeplechasers that flew
over hurdles with their feet spread out like
an eagle’s wings, and thoroughbred dams
whose clean, nervous heads rested protec-
tingly on the necks of their marvellous
foals. Everything suggested strength, swift-
ness, the pride of life. He had longed to
ride over paddocks as green as those pic-
tured in the book, on horses with just such
silken skins and flashing eyes.
For a long while he sat poring over it,
more immersed in his own memories than
in the pages before him. The house was
quite still, and the moths buzzed around
the heated lamp. Yet every now and
then some movement of Josie’s in her
bedroom brought a flutter to his pulses as
if a door had slammed close to his ear.
He rose and went out to the verandah
near his room, wondering why he felt so
little desire for sleep. There was a faint
moon veiled by soft clouds. A dry wind,
coming in tiny breaths, fanned the cheeks
slightly, and brought up visions of the
parched country over which it had travelled,
saltbush plains, the beds of dried-up rivers,
ridges of spinifex, and the long stock-routes
where men rode round their sleeping cattle.
On the other side of the house the oleanders
and vines steeped the garden in shadow,
but here nothing grew save the drooping
pepperina that trailed its sheeny leaves over
the kitchen roof. Everything was stripped
and bare, and the night was without dew.
The hard-baked tennis court, with its wire
guards and its fringe of ragged couch-grass,
looked more haggard than in the glaring
light of the sun.
Boyd sat down on the edge of the ver-
andah and gazed out at the dark line of
mulga that shut the open spaces in like a
wall. There was no sound from the camp
across the creek, and the whole world
seemed to be wrapped in light, restless
slumber. The tiny gleam from Duncan’s
hut had vanished hours before.
Boyd’s thoughts reverted to Mace. Some-
where out there in the mulga the half-
caste was sleeping with his head pillowed
(Continued on page J 51.)


Monday to Friday,
A la Carte Dining and Supper
Service.
Minimum charge 7/6. Dancing till
1 a.m. Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY LATE GALA NIGHT.
Special Table d’hote Dinner, 217-
Special Supper from 10 o’clock,
12/6; or a la Carte, minimum, 12/6
Afternoon Tea Dansant—
Monday to Friday, 3.30 to 5.30, 2/6
Saturday, 4/-
'Phone M 4 131 for your reservation.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
<r
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
Without a food your
hair will fall
Modern methods of living make it difficult for
Nature to carry out her work for we wash
away the natural oil which protects and feeds
The 'lack of this natural oil frequently spells
thin and grey hair, and, often, baldness.
Rowland’s Macassar Oil stimulates the growth
and nourishes the hair while supplying the
necessary oil.
m
Of all Chemists.
Stores and
Hairdressers .
land's
Macassar Oil
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.I,
ENGLAND.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nu[?] [?]
[?]
There was a holiday crowd at the V.A.T.C.
meeting at /Caulfield on Saturday. The
weather had all the mysterious softness of
a perfect autumn day, and it was sheer joy
jiist to sit beneath the trees in the saddling
paddock or to wander about the lawns admir-
ing the beds of giant marigolds and petunias
while the band played Irish airs in honor
of the St. Patrick’s Day that was handy. But
to sterner matters, such as frocks. Some
of the new tweeds got an outing. June
Winter-Irving and Marion Kettlewell were
well tailored in one-piece models in black-
and-white checks. Mrs. Roger Thompson
was in coat and skirt of the new spotted
silk and wool cloth in navy and white. Mrs.
Phil Finkelstein wore blue chiffon topped by
a straw hat of cornflower tone. Mrs. T. J.
Ryan, who was with Mrs. Merson Cooper,
was a study in grey. Mrs. Rupert Downes,
Mrs. E. M. Pearce and Mrs. R. A. Stough-
ton, the last-named in a stone-colored tweed
turnout, were also on the lawn.
The Chatterer got to Oakleigh links on
Friday afternoon when Hagen and Kirk-
wood were at the fifth. Beneath the pines
of the avenue were parked, also packed,
running-board to running-board, motor-cars
in hundreds. Up the drive, past the club-
house, across fairways, up and down
straights separated by groves of wattle and
native trees, the Chatterer hastened in
search of the match. Seemingly the crowd
emitted by the motors had been swallowed
up, for there was never a sound on the soft
autumn air save the giggling of a kooka-
burra. Suddenly on the skyline appeared
an army of blue-coated men waA'ing red flags
and more persons with immense coils of
rope. These were chased by several hun-
dred men and Avomen. It looked like a
revolution, but it was merely part of the
royal progress of the champions. Presently
the great men sorted themselves out of the
melee, assisted by traffic police. Hagen wore
a pullover and socks of bottle-green with his
grey plus-fours, and the lighter-complexioned
Aussie favored pale-blue pullover and socks
with his grey plus-fours. For every stroke
the two were roped off from the common
herd, while onlookers bated their breath and
photographers clicked furiously. Of course
there were caddies, each carrying a bag large
enough to hold a ’cello. For once the
Governor-General was bereft of his privi-
leges and had to scrooge and push with the
rest of us to get a glimpse of the gladiators.
After tea came Kirkwood’s exhibition of trick
shots, with accompanying patter, which
could be enjoyed in comfort.
The Firm made a regular gala night of
Gladys Moncrieff’s return to the fold in a
reAdval of “The Maid of the Mountains.”
Balloons floated down in showers at the
final curtain, and paper streamers linked
performers and audience. Miss Moncrieff
evidently has not been slimming of late, but
a clever costumier isn’t daunted by that, and
the lady looked charming in a Madonna-blue
bodice with double skirt of shades of purple
and petunia. F'acings of yellow and a yel-
low apron Avere items of the attire. An
immense gold laurel wreath spanned across
with “Success” in crimson blossoms was one
offering to the star. Lance Fairfax was also
decorated Avith laurel, and Arthur Stigant
hugged a miscellaneous collection of gifts.
Janet, second daughter of the William
Winter-Irvings “stood up,” as Scottish par-
lance has it. to Keith Tolhurst at St. John’s
kirk, Toorak, one day last week. A cream
satin robe with long sleeves flared into a
train, and an old Limerick-lace veil that
fell from a wreath of gardenias decked
the bride, Avho carried a sheaf of gold and
white lilies. Mary Winter-Irving, Jocelyn
Purves Smith and Susie Tolhurst (the last-
named, who is the bridegroom’s sister, is
spoken of with deep respect on links and
places where they do play golf) were the
’maids. Their tulle frocks were in layers,
shaded from pink to light brown, and their
locks were crowned with chaplets of flowers
that echoed similar tints. Big bouquets of
zinnias were demurely clasped. The wedding
feast was spread at the Toorak residence
of the bridegroom’s sister Mrs. J. H. Byrne.
A social event of last week was the open-
ing of the Animal Welfare League’s Clinic
for the doctoring of family pets. The Gov-
ernor and Lady Somers deserted the races
for a while to show their sympathy, and his
Ex. said the opening words. The cost of
maintaining the clinic, beyond the shilling a
time paid on behalf of the animals, is being
shared by the A.W.L., which finds four-fifths
of the expense, and the V.S.P.A., which
stumps up the remainder. On two after-
noons a week, Monday and Friday, Dr. E. F.
J. Bordeaux diagnoses, and W. D. Williams
dispenses prescriptions. Two attendants
assist with the work. The Chatterer looked
in on the first day the clinic was open for
business, and found there was no lack of
patients—cats were brought in baskets and
bags, and a proud Persian looked wanly out
of a plebeian sack. Dogs were bi-ought on
leashes, and very few of them were too ill
to have lost interest in a fight. There was
a Skye terrier with chronic asthma, a kitten
with enteric fever, and another with a bad
cold. Surgical cases were taken to the
operating theatre, and hopeless cases to the
lethal chamber.
Primed with knowledge gleaned from the
greatest Old World makers of stained glass
and inspired by study of the simplicity of
line and glowing color of the Italian painters
of the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries,
Mr. and Mrs. Napier Waller have returned
to devote themselves to decorative art. Both
are already represented here by beautiful
windows, and the mural paintings of Mr.
Waller, who lost his right arm in the Great
War, adorn our Town Hall. In England
Veronica Whall, daughter of the famous
Christopher, gave the visitors full use of
her late father’s studio. There Mr. Waller
completed two windows for a client in
Ganowindra, and bis wife made one for a
church at Geelong. Wherever there was a
bit of stained-glass work worth seeing the
two sought it out in England and France.
Mrs. Waller gives the palm for beauty to
the “Five Sisters” window of York Cathedral.
It is not in bright colors, but a symphony in
silver and mother-of-pearl effects.
In Ireland the Wallers discovered a group
of men and women artists who devote them-
selves to the craft of window decoration.
They call their organisation the “Tower of
Glass,” are headed by a Miss Purser, and
have produced some really exquisite work,
Celtic in design, rich in color and following
the canons of the “primitive” Italian school.
Glass mosaic decoration also interested the
wanderers, and they spent much time in
Ravenna, Torcello and Rome, where the
finest examples are to be seen. They have
brought back with them from London an
electric kiln, the first of its kind to reach
these parts. Mrs. Waller will now add
the design and manufacture of glass mosaic
to her activities. The Wallers delayed then-
return from London by a week to see the
loan exhibition of Italian pictures. Of
English artists of to-day the lady was par-
ticularly impressed by Glyn Philpot, whose
mural designs in the Houses of Parliament
specially appealed to her.
In Red Cross circles in this State no
name is better known than that of Secretary
Phil adelphia
Robertson, who
looks out of
this little win-
dow. She has
held the fort
since 1915
and next
month will
voyage to the
other side to
represent this
continent at
the Empire
Red Cr o s*s
Conference.
T o - m o r row
Miss Robert-
son will chat
to the Wo-
men’s Radio
Service listen-
ers about the
development of
the organisation in Vic.
The programme at the British Music
Society’s meeting of Friday night was fur-
nished by Mrs. E. H. Prockter and her daugh-
ters Gwen and Marjorie in chamber music
by Frank Bridge and Dvorak. Farewells
were said to the two girls, who are off to
Europe for study. Joyce, their sister, was
introduced to the society as a pianist, and
proved that she shared the family talent.
Mrs. Thomas Smith lent her residence Grong
Grong for the gathering.
Tintern 0. of E. Girls’ Grammar School
had its jubilee celebration in 1877, and the
Old Girls’ Association and the Tintern
Parents’ Association decided to celebrate the
occasion by adding a wing to the buildings
at a cost of £12,000. Archbishop Head
opened the building last week, and head-
mistress Anne Petersen renewed her acquaint-
ance with many ex-pupils. A laboratory,
classroom and other rooms are provided in
the addition.
Most of the gorgeous blooms which were
on sale at the bridge party at Raveloe last
week came from the grounds of the Macedon
mansion. The players who clustered about
the card-tables in the ballroom of Mrs. Harry
Emmerton’s home dealt the cards with a
comfortable feeling that they were assisting
to add a few r hundreds to the Million Shilling
Fund for a permanent orchestra.
Brenan Hall, at St. Vincent’s Hospital.
w r ore blue and gold for the first monthly
dance of this year’s series, engineered by
the institution’s two fairy godfathers,
Messrs. O’Neill and Whelan. About 400
came to the hop, and those who didn’t care
to dance played bridge.
Many stories are being told regarding the
rationing by the banks of money allotted
to prospective travellers to Europe and
’Murca. People worth thousands are being
asked to accept what to them are mere
pittances. Forty pounds a month was the
limit set on one capitalist—not enough, as
he bitterly complained, to pay for bed and
breakfast and taxi fares. Every day pro-
jected voyagings abroad for pleasure are
being cancelled for this reason.
Over the bi'idge table, good-byes were said
to Mrs. Gerald Hack, who is returning to
her home in Adelaide in April, after some
months’ holiday in this city. Marie de
Bavay, a study in blue, hostessed the
card-afternoon at the family home at Kew.
Wearing black lace gown and crinoline straw'
millinery, Madame de Bavay supplemented
her daughter’s greetings.
The smiling flapper pictured here by Marietta
is Mauricette MacGillicuddy, one of the pro-
mising pianists
turned out by
F. W. Home-
wood, of the
Uni. Con. She
has just won
a three-years’
entrance exhi-
bition. Besides
being musi-
cally gifted,
the bright lass,
is eldest
daughter o f
medico Mau-
rice MacGilli-
cuddy and
Mrs. MacGilli-
cuddy. of East
M e 1 b o urne,
has dist i n-
guislied herself
at the Catholic
Ladies’ Col-
lege, of which
she is a former student. At a recent school
performance of a religious play she showed
strong dramatic talent.
Sir Emanuel Hoyle and his wife are
visitors from Britain at present in our
midst. Cloth factories at Huddersfield and
Penrith, Cumberland, are owned by the knight,
who has come this way to buy our wool and
take orders for his cloth. In the mills of
Joseph Hoyle and Son, of which he is
governing-director, he has been able to keep
his machinery going and all hands employed
night and day during the slump. A souvenir
of this feat was given him by his employees
—an address in the form of a roll of cloth
in a silver casket. Lady Hoyle, who is a
Londoner, accompanies her husband on all
his travels. They had been back from a tour
of the East only a few months when she
had to pack again for the Australian jaunt.
She is a keen member of the National Union
of Women Workers, and also of the Y.W.C.A.
Mrs. W. Lanfear Thompson, who lately
returned to us after an absence of six years,
crowded a lot of life into her period of exile.
As Madge Freeman, of Bendigo, she took
up art, and after a year or so at Melbourne
National Gallery set out for England, where
she received further training. While abroad
she married W. L. Thompson, a graduate
of our Uni. Her married life, cut short by
the death of her husband inside three years,
was largely spent on the coast of West
Africa, Mr. Thompson being manager of
one of the goldmines of the Ashanti field.
Later he opened up a new mine at Bibiana.
At both places Mrs. Thompson was the only
white woman. Furlough in Europe every
nine months was a necessary break in such
a climate. After her husband’s death his
widow joined artist Elma Roach in a sketch-
ing tour which tool; in Corsica, and then
packed her trunks for Australia. She is
taking up her artistic Career again and is
sharing Margaret Mac Lean’s studio in Tun-
nock Chambers. A little show of her water-
colors dealing with West African and
European subjects will be held in the near
future.
Margaret Mac Lean, lately home from an
overseas pilgrimage, is busily refurnishing
her old studio in Collins-street. It is a
quaint nook, and can boast a pocket-handker-
chief garden with some tree-dahlias. Miss
Mac Lean and her sister began their tour by
establishing a pied-a-terre at the Dominion
Artists’ Club in London, which is run by
Doris Carter, well known in Melbourne as
a singer. Their travels covered England,
Scotland (including the Western Highlands
and the Hebrides) and Italy, where they
joined Elma Roach and Mrs. Lanfear Thomp-
son. Two months was spent sketching m
Belgium.
To keep green the memory of the late
Winifred May Lees, first wife of the late
Archbishop Lees, members of Anglican
women’s organisations in the diocese of Mel-
bourne founded a memorial bursary, to be
given to a candidate nominated by the
Church Missionary Society. The first award
was made the occasion of a little ceremony,
Archbishop Head inviting the original com-
mittee to Bishopscourt, when Lenora Apple-
by was handed her title to the scholarship.
Miss Appleby, who is preparing for. mission
work, and intends to go to Tanganyika, is a
resident of' St. • Hilda’s Training College,
East Melbourne.
News comes from the East that Violet
Tomlins, erstwhile of Bendigo and Kew, has
lost her heart to Lionel F. Hopkinson, an
ex-naval officer now with the British-Ameri-
can Tobacco Co. in F.M.S. The wedding
happens in June at Penang.
The results of the Eighteen Days.’ Diet
slimming treatment, now so popular in this
city, aren’t all pleasant. A recent brides-
maid so overdid self-denial as to create
doubts about her fitness to put in an appear-
ance at the ceremony. She fainted at a final
fitting of her regalia, after which her family
took firm measures. She was forcibly fed,
and revived sufficiently to go through with
the ordeal. Another girl got . herself so fine
that her trousseau, ordered for an overseas
sailing, was found to be all out of fit at the
last minute. Clients who lose pounds weekly
put many furrows in the brows of dress-
makers. In this case they had an all-
night sitting to make alterations.
Mrs. Percy Russell, still president of the
Housewives’ Association in spite of disrup-
tions in the camp, had a distant connection
with a recent business merger. About seven
years ago she suggested to F. Matear that
lie should purchase a small cake-making
business in Richmond. From the acceptance
of that bit of advice sprang the well-
established Daisy Del dainties and teashops.
Last week there was a linking-up of various
Melbourne caterers, including Sargent’s in
Melbourne, Daisy Dels and the Hotel Aus-
tralia of Collins-street, under the title of
Lucullus, Ltd. F. Matear is chairman of
the new organisation.
Black-and-white artist Ray Whiting, who
leaves us this week to try his luck in Lon-
don, has staged many social flutters for
charity, and will be sorely missed. A most
useful young man.
Arthur Mendes, an Indian civil servant,
has brought his wife and two small sons
on holiday to this city, where he has come
in search of health. Mrs. Mendes is enjoying
a re-union with her family. Her mother.
Mrs. Herne, is coming from Westralia and
meanwhile Mrs. Mendes has her sister Rene
to keep her company.
Mrs. Louis Nelken closed her ' Macedon
home last week and took train for Brisbane
to call on some old friends settled there since
marriage. Many years have elapsed since her
last visit to Bananaland’s capital. On the
return trip, which is to be made by motor,
she will halt in Sydney to attend the racing
carnival and exchange greeting with her
relatives the Osbornes before settling down
at Cloyne, her Toorak home, for the season.
After 14 years’ work in India, Vida
Robertson has come home on furlough. She.
has grown to like life in the East, though
when she landed in Bombay with just ±2O with
which to make her way in a strange country,
she was just a little faint-hearted. Her first
appointment was as governess to the family
of a rajah. Any elation experienced at being
chosen from many applicants was dashed on
hearing that the rajah had solved the pro-
blem of choice by commanding that all letters
be placed in a bag and shaken, after which
he picked one out with closed eyes. Later
she entered a Government office and remained
there till appointed to her . present position
as editor of the “Indian Railway Gazette.
The King’s famous collection of stamps
will be enlarged in the near future by a
complete collection of Commonwealth stamps,
gathered by J. R. W. Purves son of Mr. and
Mrs. J. G. Purves, of Toorak. Purves, jun.,
indulges in philately as a side-line to law,
and his name is known to stamp-collectors
all over the world. Though parting with
his collection of Commonwealth stamps, tor
which he has been offered £2OOO by E. D.
Bacon, curator of the King s collection, he
will retain his probably still more valuable
set of AHctorian gummies.
Harper Bell, one of our Collins-street
dental specialists, is about to sail overseas
on a six months’ holiday. Being a tired
man wishful to avoid fuss and chatter, he
looked around and finally found a cargo-
boat from which he wangled board and
lodging for the trip. Mrs. Harper Bell,
who lately came back from a Europeau
wander, will keep an eye on their young
family during dad’s absence.
The latest local miss to leave us to seek
laurels on the English stage is Nancy Jones,
daughter of a well-known medico. She haa
some experience with the Vanbrugh-Bouci-
cault co. during the last Australasian season
and she hopes to enlist Miss A anbru»h ■
help in her venture.


ENO IN THE
EALTH
3
rr
J
oC
ccc
3
*
000
0~
)x.
y
9J
&
¥=*■
-)
3£
A’An
r
mm
OS
SI
yy?:
<r£2
i
THOSE who take Eno’s “Fruit
Salt” know the joy of a sparkling
morning draught which both stimu-
lates and invigorates. It starts you off
feeling that all’s right with the world.
More important Eno keeps you
feeling right all day long. It increases
your zest for work and play.
For Eno promotes that perfect inner
cleanliness on which really good
health depends. It gently yet
thoroughly eliminates from the system
the food waste and poisons of yester-
day. It keeps the blood-stream clean
and vigorous. Eno contains no purga-
tive mineral salts, so that its regular use
does not form an indispensable habit.
Follow the lead of countless healthy
people all over the world—start your
day with a glass of water sparkling
with a dash of Eno’s “Fruit Salt.”
In two sizes at Chemists and Stores
w
fcfc
TRADE
M
mark
PREPARED ONLY BY J. C. ENO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND
Sales exigents ; THE BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE 61 CO. LTD. SYDNEY, N. S.WJ


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
’SLKM co =i - % E „.,
D.RECTO RS -James Esq W.H c.M.Q.
*- Manager —M. G. HAYMEN M
HEAD OFFICE ----- BRISBANE.
With cfflcra .« London,
Amusements.
SYDNEY'S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S
THE BELLE OF NEW YORK
CRITERION: JOURNEY’S END.
ROYAL: THE PRINCE AND THE
PAUPER
(Commencing Saturday.).
J c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
GLADYS MONCRIEFF in
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
jVUEW COMEDY THEA T R E,
MELBOURNE.
LEO CARILLO in
LOMBARDI LTD.
IN G’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE ALLAN WILKIE SEASON.
IJfOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
1A MELBOURNE.
WILL ROGERS in his first talkie,
THEY HAD TO SEE PARIS.
ALSO
SPEEDWAY,
With
'WILLIAM HAINES, ANITA PAGE & KARL DANE.
(Sound Synchronised Special.)
Professional.
ENTOMOLOGIST required for observation
work in Solomon Islands. Applications,
which must contain full personal particulars,
details training, qualifications and experience,
copies testimonials to Box 370055, Sydney.
For Sale.
FOREIGN STAMPS.
(COLLECTION of 5000 different Stamps,
neatly mounted in five Paper Books. A
splendid gift of interest and amusement.
PRICE, £6, Post Free and Registered.
Price Lists of Albums and Stamps sent
on application.
ATLAS STAMP CO.,
ROSEVILLE, N.S.W.
'SWAM
99
FOR
“SWAN”
PENS
IHK
AND
ALL
PENS.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 QUEENSLAND.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
TO JOHN ALBERT KNOTT formerly of
Brisbane in the State of Queensland but
whose present whereabouts are un-
known.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been
commenced against you in the. Supreme
Court of Queensland at Brisbane in the
State of Queensland No. 117 of 1930 by
ADELINA MAY KNOTT your wife m
which she claims a dissolution of her mar-
riage with you and by her Petition filed in
the said Court she alleges that on or about
the eighth day of January One thousand
nine hundred and twenty-three you deserted
her without cause and such desertion has
been continuous up to the present time And
that it has been ordered that service of the
Writ and Petition on you be effected by
filing and fixing on the Notice Board in the
Registry of the said Court a copy of the
said Writ and an office copy of the said
Petition and by the insertion of this notice
once each in the Brisbane “Courier ’ pub-
lished in Queensland and in the Sydney
Bulletin published in New South Wales.
If you desire to defend this action you must
within seventy-two days after the last act
done as aforesaid enter an appearance at the
Registry of the said Court and in default
of such appearance judgment may be entered
against you.
DATED this 12th day of March 1930.
[L.s.] D. M. O’FLYNN,
Deputy Registrar.
T. S. O’Sullivan & O’Sullivan, Solicitors,
O.K. Building, Queen Street, Brisbane.
Public Notice.
UNIVERSITY OF TASMANIA
Tutorial Classes Lecturer.
APPLICATIONS are invited for appoint-
ment as Tutorial Classes Lecturer,
North-Western District, Tasmania. Lec-
turer required to reside in district. Salary,
£450 per annum, with travelling expenses
incidental to organisation and teaching work.
Conditions of Appointment may be obtained
on application to the Registrar, the Univer-
sity of Sydney.
L. R. THOMAS,
Registrar.
CUSTERS announce their unique Catalogue
* (1930) is being posted to last year’s
Customers.
FOSTERS are famous for SUPERIOR
STRAINS OF FLOWER SEDDS. To
become acquainted with their Choice and
Extended Stock, write for Catalogue.
FOSTERS, LTD.,
192 Sussex Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
z''' REEN, LYDIA, formerly DeGaris, will
V '- x hear something to her advantage if she
communicates with NATIONAL TRUS-
TEES COMPANY, 113 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne.
cU\yll\ai i jl/anUQm/UXf
"Rameno” Brand "Merino-Knit” Cardigans and Sweaters are
snug-fitting and very comfortable to wear. They are knitted
from fine Australian Wools which give the natural warmth that
is so essential in protecting the body in changeable weather.
"Rameno” Brand "Merino-Knit” garments are beautifully
knitted, distinctive in style and colour, and altogether desirable
as an adjunct to the every-day attire of particular men.
"Rameno” Brand "Merino-Knit” Qarments
are made in Three Textures: Heavy-Weight ,
Fine-Heavy-Weight , Light-Weight*
RAMENO
EfiINOKNIT
"RAMENO” Brand
Cardigans &-sweaters
£
m
i
MADE EXCLUSIVELY BY
MERINO WOOLLEN MILLS
PTY. LTD.
COLLINGWOOD, VIC
Ask Your Mercer for
"Rameno” Brand
"Merino-Knit"
Cardigans,
Sweaters,
Half Hose
T
M 37
Knit
oJt
emo
l AlwausFit
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland's
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Sir John and Lady Goodwin found time
to drop in at the Methodist garden party
in the Margaret Marr Memorial Home for
Boys at Wynnum. The home was estab-
lished for the benefit of poor and orphan
boys, and costs about £lOO a month to run.
Mrs. H. McLennan recently donated a cot
in memory of her husband, and the Queens-
land Institute of Ad. Men another. Various
other gifts, including money for Jersey cows
and farming implements, were recorded and
acknowledged.
His Ex. attended the Welsh Society’s
dinner in the Astoria Cafe, where Stanley
Lewis led the singing of the Welsh National
Anthem and Gwen Bradfield played the harp.
Sir John, in responding to the toast of his
health, mentioned he had spent three years
in Wales as a boy, and paid a high tribute
to the gallantry of the Welsh soldiers in
France. The Rev. Morgan Jones delivered
an oration in Welsh.
The secretary of the Queensland 41st
eisteddfod has received 200 entries to date.
For the choral events there are 76 —a record
for Australia. Four hundred children will
sing.
St. Alban’s chapel, Southport, was dressed
up in lilies and roses for the marriage
of Peter Bell, son of the Colin Bells,
Longreach, and grandson of Joshua Peter
Bell, to Hilda Walsh, daughter of the
Western Walshes, of Southport, and grand-
daughter of the late W. H. Walsh, M.L.A.
The bride wore ivory duchcsse satin, an
old Limerick-lace court train, a Limerick-
lace veil and carried a sheaf of roses.
Margaret Wilson and Janice Walsh ’maided
in hydrangea blue. Francis Bell best-
manned and John Flower was ’grooms-
man. The feasting was at the Pacific Hotel;
the bride left for her new home at Maroon
in mastic and blue.
Holy Trinity Church, South Brisbane,
which was burnt down a long time ago, is
to be rebuilt at the cost of £9500. Arch-
bishop Sharp laid the foundation-stone,
and said they had been 20 years collecting
the requisite sum. The new church is to
be of Italian design, with white walls, a
tiled roof and a tower.
In honor of Madame Nikola Iladcjine, who
was pretty Nelle Tritton and a past pupil
of Brisbane Girls’ High School, Misses
Harker and Jarrett had a party at Somer-
ville House. Black crepe satin with touches
of goya red was worn by the guest.
Frank Neil and Nellie Bramley are both
running comedy, and Frank O’Brian is at
the Empire. Nellie has strengthened her
cast with Eva Moss, and photos of John
Barry, the handsome leading man in “Love
’Em and Leave ’Em,” are in brisk demand
among matinee girls.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The other night the road to the Log
Cabin was* a gold ribbon in the glare of
headlights from cars of merry-making hunts-
men and their friends. The party was a
farewell to the Hunt Club’s president, Mr.
A. E. Joyner, who leaves soon for a peep
at foreign parts. Clumps of feather grass,
ti-tree and gum branches made a bushland
of the cabin’s interior, and tiny electric
globules peeped among the leaves. There was
a sumptuous supper, punctuated with speeches
and the presentation of a pair of binoculars
to the traveller. Handsome Mrs. Joyner
hung a lame bridge-coat over her black
chiffons; Mrs. D. D. Harris, wife of the
newly elected president, surmounted her black
flares with a white satin corsage; Mrs. Jack
Durack’s chrysanthemum georgettes fell in
a multitude of draperies; ■ Mrs. Handmere
wore black over pink; Mrs. O’Toole’s sulphur
satin was adorned with crimson roses; Mrs.
Smiley, in black, brought her daughter in
bouffant ninons; Mrs. Sundercombe also
chose black in georgette and lace, and her
daughter Peggy danced in demure white with
glints of sky blue.
Mamie, younger daughter of Dr. and S. C.
Moore, of Kalamunda, who recently boarded
the Gascoyne with a cargo of trousseau, was
married last week to Eric Lough in St.
Andrew’s Cathedral, Singapore. The wedding
garment was a simplicity of ivory georgettes
with drooping flares attached to a fitting
corsage. The veil, a cobweb of tulle, fluttered
from a bandeau of orange buds. Mrs. Geddes
was attendant matron of honor, and her
husband handed over the bride. A motor
trip to Penang and back was planned for
the ’moon.
The sticky humidity which sapped our
energy for days changed into warm sunlight
and a cool breeze for the March race meet-
ing. Monster cannas which have glorified
headquarters all the summer held their heads
proudly as ’ever, and petunias and phlox were
luxuriant. Frocking was flimsy, with a
sprinkling of felt millinery Sand-dune brown
georgettes and laces enwrapped Mrs. Ernest
Lee Steere; blues and browns mingled upon
Mrs. Mahood’s ninon draperies; Mrs. C. P.
Smith chose well-cut black with white
pipings; Mrs. J. h orrest wore biscuit and
Mrs. Langlois Lefroy was gowned and hatted
in black.
The Arthur Jacobys managed to get their
steamer trunks packed in between farewell
parties. One of the last shivoos was a
luncheon and bridge at the Ivarrakatta Club.
There were three hostesses: Mrs. Max Rut-
ter in two-toned blue georgettes ; Mrs. Love, in
pillar-box red; and Mrs. Wallace Unmack, m
organdie and lace. The guest of honor set
off her titian head with tobacco-brown frock-
ing and millinery. Among the guests were
Mrs. Claude Unmack, Mrs Dakin, Mrs. Stan
Brearley, Mrs. Laurie, Mrs. Ihomas,. Di,
Mildred Caton, Mrs. Eisner and Mrs. Church.
This year the Fine Arts course at the Uni.
will be open to students other than those
who are sturying for a degree. The pro-
gramme includes lectures on architecture,
aesthetics, Greek art, the history of painting
and sculpture and practical lessons in draw-
ing and painting.
Fifty women and girls from the mulga
and the wheatbelt enrolled for the Technical
School’s latest brainwave, a special short
course in wool-classing for women. A. D.
Stewart, of the Tech., and li. McCallum, ot
the Department of Agriculture, are imparting
the information.
SOUTH' AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
George Brookman’s widow left by the N.al-
dera, taking her niece Helen Wimble with
her; she expects to be away for a year.
Miss Pat Acraman, another passenger by
the same boat, was given a farewell lun-
cheon-party by girl friends prior to her
departure.
Miss Hilda Warren, a worker from St.
Dunstan’s, London, has been paying a flying
visit to her relations in Adelaide after, lo
years’ absence. The Mayoress (Mrs. Laving*
ton Bonython) is a niece of Miss Warren,
and gave her a farewell party at St.
Corantyn, East-terrace, where the guest s
sisters, cousins and aunts gathered in force.
There was a wealth of pink gladioli and
blue delphiniums, and afternoon tea was
served in the ballroom. Mrs. Bonython was
a graceful figure in floral chiffon.
On the following afternoon a gift .tea
was held at St. Corantyn under the auspices
of the Keith Sheridan Free Kindergarten
of which the Mayoress is president. Ihe
stalls for the sale of the gifts were n
different rooms, and there was a dtli & httu
concert in the ballroom, Ihe committee
included Mesdames Corbin, Cowie. O Dea,
Reid and Sandford and Misses Burfor.,
Langman and Thomas.
The Adelaide Women’s Club, which was
burnt out of its last premises has opened
in ideal quarters m Peel-street, lhe con
version of the White Hart Hotel, opposite
Se Theatre Royal, into .business, premises
enabled the club to acquire sufliaent loom
snace on the upper storey to become lesi
dential • there is a spacious lounge and a
cafeteria. On Saturday Lady Uore-Ruthven
was shown round and entertained at tea b>
tlm nresident (Miss Adelaide Mietlike) and
SmSt* In .ho afternoon tg -as an
at-home for members and a bridge pa ty
in the evening.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The Australian Navy’s regatta at North-
west Bay was a cheery and well-patronised
event. Admiral and Mrs. Evans entertained
a big party on board the Australia; some
of the dishes were novelties' —a reminder
that the hostess is Norwegian. Among those
bidden were Mrs. Walter Marks and daughter
Joan, Mrs. E. 11. Webster, Mrs. Chalmers,
Mrs lan Macdonald, Mrs. Thos. Lyons, Mrs.
Thos Murdoch, Miss Kicr Murdoch, the C.
W. Grants and their two girls, the GibUn
girls, Miss Glover and Miss Grimwade
(Melb.), Sybil Lyons, Alison Gray, officers
from the Australia, Canberra, Albatross,
Anzac and Success, and the two Evans boys,
Richard and Broke.
Members of the Inter-fetate Nursing
Federation met in the Speck for their trien-
nial conference. One of their objects, is to
secure a uniform registration system in all
parts of the Commonwealth. r lhe delegates
were lunched by Dr. and Mrs. Nairn Butler,
and at the end of their working session were
motored to various places of interest around
and outside the city.
The J. P. Piggots and daughter Brenda
are off by the Oronsay for a long European
trip. Brenda is one of the Speck’s crack
junior tennis performers, and it is likely
that she will be seen at Wimbledon.
Herewith a solid chip of an old Tas-
manian block, Eustace Gamaliel Butler,^son
of W. F. Den-
nis Butler, of
the firm of
Butler, Mcln-
t y r e and
Butler. Just
admitted to the
Bar, after a
d i stiuguished
record at the
Tas. Univer-
sity and in
Melbourne, he
represents the
fifth genera-
tion of legal
Butlers in
Hobart. Be-
fore settling
down to prac-
tice, he will
spend six
m o n t li s
abroad.
Holiday folk bitten with desire to see
the Great Lake (and maybe get a glimpse
of Critchley Parker’s bunyip) may sojourn
comfortably at Tiagarra, the new accom-
modation house. Every room is booked well
ahead for the beginning of winter, when the
lake may be seen at its best. A week-end
or so ago, however, saw the “house full”
sign up, and one married couple spent an
uneasy night in the proprietor’s motor-car.
That indefatigable philanthropist Mrs. W.
F. Darling has just returned from Maori-
land and the mainland, where she has been
studying social welfare conditions. Among
the " subjects of her investigation were
municipal milk supplies, Government dental
clinics, child welfare centres, children’s
courts, farmers’ wives’ associations and
country women’s ditto.
Miss B. Thyne carried off the Cragg Chal-
lenge Cup in the ladies’ finals at the Laun-
ceston summer tennis tournament. This
has now been won three times by the Thyne
sisters, and becomes the property of the
last winner.
Patricia, youngest chick of the H. P.
Harrissons, Grove, House, Newstead, Laun-
ceston. has decided oil a life-partnership
with William Burbury, son of the Gerald
Burburys, Inglewood, Andover.


Ties
NATURE’S REMEDY, HEALTH-GIVING AND REFRESHING.
Burgoyne’s Fruit Saline is world-
famous for its wonderful health-
giving properties—it is an agree-
able, invigorating and cooling drink,
and is a speedy cure for Bilious-
ness, Sick Headaches and all fever-
ish conditions. Acting, too, as a
mild aperient, it cleanses the system
of all impurities.
All chemists sell Burgoyne’s
Fruit Saline. Keep a bottle in the
house; all the family will enjoy it.
ASK YOUR CHEMIST FOR
BURGOYNE’S FRUIT SALINE.
(^[ me m Money /
K
dg
Those in business who have
learned the value of time—of
being on time at all times—that
time means money are on the high road to success.
An Omega Watch makes an excellent present to a
business girl. You will find she will ALWAYS be on
time if she owns one.
* 1
EXACT TIME F
K LI F E
on his saddle and his blanket thrown
lightly over him. Why should the fellow’s
sallow face and deep-sunken eyes haunt
his mind so? He had done him no injury;
merely given him blow for blow.
Something like a ray of moonlight
flickered in the shadows of. the pepperina,
and his eyes fixed themselves on the spot.
He knew by the response of his pulses to
the slightest sound or movement that he
was very much alive. Could it be that
.Mace had returned, and was hanging round,
baffled and revengeful?
He rose and walked across to the gate,
his feet crunching on the gravel. There
was no other sound, and the diffused moon-
light seemed to have cast a spell upon the
silent outbuildings and the night-paddock
beyond. He suddenly caught a faint breath-
ing and saw a white figure leaning over
the fence.
“You, Josie!” he said in surprise.
In the moonlight her face was without
color, but her eyes shone like a timorous
bird’s. She gave him a shy, uncertain
glance, as if one part of her feared his
approach; yet she made no movement. Her
lips faltered a moment before any sound
escaped them.
“I couldn’t sleep,” she explained huskily.
“Why? Not worrying about anything?”
“No. It’s 0n1y.... My room keeps the
day’s heat.”
He stood looking down at her, a sudden
dryness making itself felt in his throat. With
a nervous movement she gathered the loose
kimono across her bfeast, and he noticed the
roundness of her throat and the tangled
masses of dark hair on her shoulders. It
came to him that his blood had been con-
scious of her all evening, and was flowing
toward her now, drowning the faint voice
that said:
“Keep away! This is the beginning of
trouble.”
It was the girl who made the first ten-
tative movement of retreat, but his hand
was on her shoulder.
“No, don’t go yet. There’s nothing to be
afraid of.”
“It’s late.”
“What does that matter?”
He became aware that her body was
trembling under its light wrap, and that
she had ceased to have any life left except
that of the senses. She surrendered to his
touch in utter passivity, as if this were the
end to which all her dreams had been
leading.
CHAPTER XIX.
Boyd Takes the Track.
McCurdie came back after a little more
than three months’ absence, brimming with
good health and vitality, as if the rains that
had just fallen had replenished his own
being and new prospects were opening up
ahead. Unexpected prospects, that gave a
different twist to his plans. He had had a
better time than he had anticipated. When
Ada had recovered from her accident they
had taken rooms at a hotel in town, and
McCurdie had been surprised to find he was
very well remembered by his old cronies.
A sort of legend had grown up around him
at his club. Among the woolgrowers, poli-
ticians, visiting judges and commercial men
who gathered there he had come to be a
picturesque figure, and most of the racy
stories that floated about were somehow
fastened to him. Hadn’t he flogged a
sporting writer who suggested that the
running of one of his horses was suspicious?
Didn’t he take off his coat and work for a
fortnight on the wharves during a shipping-
strike, squaring off things by giving five
hundred to the union funds when the
trouble was over? Wasn’t it his contempt
for the lawyers that had made him discard
their help and defend himself in the great
Mayne-McCurdie libel case, making his
points so effectively that his opponent only
got a farthing damages? Wherever he went
he seemed to hear a whisper just ahead of
him:
“Roger McCurdie’s down! You remem-
ber old Roger—member for Baroona before
the war. Great old character. Tough as
a bit of seasoned gidya.”
People asked him about Boyd. He was
a little astonished that Boyd’s name and
record should be so well known, and un-
consciously his son’s figure began to have
more importance in his eyes. An objective
importance, that allowed him to see Boyd
as the rest of the world saw him. How
was it that when they were together he
could never quite rid his mind of the idea
that his son was still a boy? Even though
there was nothing in Boyd’s bearing to
warrant it.
But just then he was preoccupied with
himself and with the unexpected prestige
that had come to him. Life in town was
more stimulating than he had found it be-
fore. Racing, theatres, the atmosphere of
whisky and good-fellowship at the club; he
had forgotten what an appetite he had for
these things. And Ada! How she blossomed
out when the lights sparkled and people
made a fuss over her. Wonderful what a
difference a low-cut evening-dress and a
little excitement made to a woman! He
had caught men staring at her when she
sank down in the stalls, dropping her wrap
over her shoulders, and the thrill of pride
that shot through him made him vow that
he would give her whatever she wanted.
He did not have long to wait for the
chance to fulfil the vow. Ada had seen
the house she wanted, an old-fashioned
bungalow with large grounds sloping down
to the river, and a little croquet-lawn
shaded by overhanging jacarandas. The
morning they set out to view it he had
an unexpected windfall. Some Malayan
tin-shares he had almost forgotten about
took a sudden leap, and he was able to
make a few thousands by merely ringing
up his broker. That stroke of luck carried
him out, mentally, into a spacious world.
While Ada was investigating the garage and
the kitchen arrangements, he was busily
engaged in building up a new life for him-
self. Some of his political friends had
hinted that a safe seat could be found for
him whenever he wanted it. He was in-
clined to snort at safe seats, but the offer
had remained in the back of his mind, and
the future was lit with a mellow glow.
Politics, a couple of racehorses, Thursday
afternoons shooting pigeons at the Gun
Club, a run out to Abernethy now and
then to see how Boyd was getting on —he
saw years of pleasant and successful activity
ahead of him. It would not be the empty
life he had once visualised when he thought
of uprooting himself.
“Well,” he said to Ada, “if you like it,
I’m satisfied. Plenty of space to breathe,
and that’s the main thing. We’ll go back
to Abernethy to see the winter through
before we settle down here for good.”
It was in that mood they returned, Ada’s
high spirits matching McCurdie’s own. She
was not at all averse from spending another
few months at Abernethy now that she
saw a definite prospect of leaving it for ever.
And she really had nailed Roger down this
time! Miss Carmody had been unwilling
to come west again, but she had secured
another housekeeper in the township, a
little active woman who had been cooking
at the hotel while her husband was away
droving. Partly from sheer goodwill, and
partly from a fear that he might withdraw
suddenly and spoil her plans, Ada was
anxious to spend every effort to make things
smooth for Boyd. She did not place much
confidence in his attachment to the place
or his capacity for knowing which side his
bread was buttered. There was something
rash and incalculable about him; she dis-
trusted the occasional inward look of his
eyes and the impulsiveness of his move-
ments. The sort of man who might wreck
any neatly-arranged plan if one part of
him got the upper hand.
“I’m going to make you as comfortable
as I can before we leave,” she assured him.
“Set the house going so that it will run
itself. Mrs. Cleary’s a little jewel, and she
fell in love with this place as soon as she
saw it. I don’t believe you’ll marry for
years and years, Boyd. You’re that sort.”
“What sort?” he parried mechanically.
“Too little head behind the ears,” she
laughed. “Women only interest you up
to a certain point.”
“I don’t think his head’s much different
from mine,” chuckled McCurdie. “But in
a place like this Even the dingo’s
a saint when there’s no sheep about, eh
Boyd?”
Boyd did not seem to be listening. There
was. a sensitiveness about him that made
his back go up automatically when Ada
made any remark that touched him per-
sonally. She divined this, and usually was
tactful enough to keep their mealtime con-
versation on a plane of light and airy gener-
alities. Jokes about Jeff Thorp’s map, the
housekeeper’s patent medicines and the
everyday humors of the place. Ever since
he had returned she had set out to allay
any prejudice he might have against her,
even to win his regard; but that had been
mainly for Roger’s sake. Only lately had
she felt a more personal interest in him,
realising that his future was likely to affect
her own. He was her liberator, really;
she had not expected so much from his
homecoming. And he had really convinced
Rosrer that there was not room for two of
them on the place.
But could she be perfectly sure of him
sticking? Watching him closely now, she
was aware of a slight change in him, a
deeper abstraction in his eyes, and a way
of cutting through her banter abruptly as
if it was the chatter of a child. He was
not happy; she was sure of that. Instead
of going over to the men’s quarters of an
evening now, he usually slipped off by him-
self to the creek, or went to his room with
a book. And sometimes she caught him
standing on the edge of the verandah with
that curious, restless look in his eyes that
made her feel he would like to catch his
horse and ride off over the skyline. Ada
was only observant when her immediate
interests were concerned, but then little
escaped her. What could have affected
Boyd in the last few months? A woman?
She had heard that Barbara had left Niva
Downs and gone back to Sydney.
“They must have had a quarrel before
she left,” she said to Roger. “Most likely
that was why she left. If I know anything
about women, Barbara was cracked about,
him. Ready to go the limit.”
McCurdie was inclined to pooh-pooh the
idea, as he had so often done before. It
wasn’t what he wanted to believe; it only
made the future more complex.
“He told me he hadn’t seen her since
the races,” he said.
“No, but why shouldn’t it have hap-
pened then? She left a few days after.
And you don’t tell me she had a sudden
feeling it was her duty to go back to
Frank Day. Barbara’s not the sort of
woman to get twinges of conscience. If
she was perfectly sure of another man,
she’d give no more thought to Day than
to the horse that lost her the Plate.”
“H’mph! As modern as all that?” Mc-
Curdie grunted. “Don’t know where she
picked up those ideas of loyalty unless it
was from Day himself. Old Wally hadn’t
any doubts about the sacredness of his
marriage vows Well, she’s gone back.
anyhow, so that’s an end of that.”
He was by no means as unconcerned
about the affair as he sounded. The thought
of Barbara going back to her husband
roused a. flow of feeling in him, but it
was muddied by all sorts of practical con-
siderations. Her position at Niva Downs
was equivocal, after all; it allowed her no
real freedom, and only gave people an
excuse for gossip. A woman ought either
to live with her husband or break with
him definitely! This grass-widowhood was
an unsatisfactoiy business—neither fish,
flesh, nor fowl. As for some quarrel with
Boyd being the cause of her sudden deci-
sion to return, though, he was frankly
sceptical. He had talked it all over with
his son, and had found him curiously in-
different.
“Barbara knows what her life is,” Boyd
had said curtly. “No one else does.”
And he changed the conversation to the
way the cattle they had bought from
Mooney had fattened since the rains of
March.
It had been a good season, after all, and
they were preparing to send a large mob
of fat cattle on the road before winter.
Daily they left the yards of a morning with
quartpots and hobble-chains jingling and
the horses cutting flakes out of the rain-
sodden turf when they plunged, while over
the cleared paddocks there was the shimmer
of dew and of mists rising. Magic in
the air, the sense of a rain-washed world,
clouds overhead that looked like blossoms
of stone! McCurdie and Boyd always rode
first, the overseer and Larry following
behind, and Duncan and Jim bringing up
the rear together with Mace and the black-
boys. In spite of his threat to leave, Mace
still remained on the place, but the vitality
and self-confidence that had once made
him a picturesque figure had gone out of
him, and he had become, in some way,
insignificant. Even his face had lost
character. It was as though a sponge had
been passed over it, wiping off any per-
sonal quality. His silk shirt and corded
breeches had the frowsy look of clothes
that had been slept in for weeks, and he
sat on his horse without pride.
McCurdie noticed the change in him, but
did not comment on it. It merely seemed
that the fellow had given up some of his
highfalutin notions and was settling down
to steady work. Almost the same thought
occurred to him when he looked at Boyd.
He was quite unconscious of the restless-
ness at which Ada had hinted; Ada, he
felt, was morbid about the idea of some
unforeseen disaster preventing them from
getting away. In their long rides together
he had failed to discover any hankering
on his son’s part to return to the law;
indeed, the idea of that was almost fan-
tastic now. Boyd was quieter, more con-
centrated, readier to talk of practical
details; and an added something, definite
but indefinable, had come to him—a look
of having grown into the life about him.
In the last few months he had thoroughly
mastered the working of the place and
gave his orders to the men with prompt-
ness and decision. The very indifference
with which he talked about Barbara’s dis-
appearance seemed to McCurdie a good
sign. He wasn’t going to make a mess of
his life by entangling himself with some-
one else’s woman!
“Fat as ticks,” he said, turning in his
saddle to watch the cattle feeding by the
bore-drains. “You’ll be able to buy in a
new lot of stores when these are on the
road.”
“Yes,” agreed Boyd. “There’s grass still
going to waste.”
“The devil of it is other places will
have grass, too,” said McCurdie. “Bit of
a catch in that idea about the rain falling
on the just and unjust alike! You may
have to travel a long way before you can
pick up what you want at decent prices.”
Almost unconsciously he had surrendered
the reins entirely into Boyd’s hands. He
had meant to do it, but it gave him a
thrill of pride when he realised how natural
the transference seemed. He could retire
with good grace. The running of this
place, which had been his life, was in
capable hands. He was drawn more than
ever towards this son of his, so different
from him and yet quick with his blood.
Even Bruno, his own dog, seemed to have
a doubt about which of them he was to
follow whenever their paths separated. Yet
in the end he always followed Boyd, look-
ing back with apologetic eyes at McCurdie,
as though to say:
“You left me a long time. How am I
to know you won’t leave me again?
Better for me to keep with the one who
seems fixed.”
It was a long muster. Every gilgai and
pothole was full, so that the cattle had
no need to water in the same places, but
were scattered in small bunches about the
gullies and timbered ridges. Hard days of
riding and nights of watching small mobs
that had been gathered in places where
there were no yards! Yet the days had
a freshness in them, as if crystal-clear
currents of icy air stood between the earth
and the sun, and at night there was the
warmth of little fires. Ducks and water-
fowl swarmed over the marshy flats where
the bore-drains trickled out; the men left
their blankets before the stars paled to
bring in game for breakfast. McCurdie,
wading among the wet reeds to get a shot
at the wood-duck, or ambling over the
ridges with his eyes open for fresh tracks,
found the one thought repeating itself in
hia mind:
“It’s a good life. Boyd will find it so,
as I’ve done. Nothing to worry about, now
that he’s throwing down roots!”
At the end of the week the last fat
beast had been cut out and the mob turned
into one of the home-paddocks that had
been emptied to receive them. The only
thing that remained was to get a droving-
plant ready for the road. It had always
been the custom at Abernethy to drive
the fat cattle to the railhead across the
border and truck them to the markets at
Homebush. McCurdie, when he opened
up the question of who should be put in
charge of them, was astonished to find
that Boyd had made up his mind.
“I’m going down with the cattle this
time,” he said.
(Continued on next page.)


Accommodation
160.
Central,
Comfortable,
Convenient,
aMts. G.P.O.
Excellent
Cuisine.
Billiards,
Dancing.
ORIENTAL HOTEL
(No License)
KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET.
TARIFF:
Weekly,
£3/3/- to
£4/4/-
Daily,
11/6 to 12/6.
Room & B’fast,
8/6 to 9/6
FL2034
F 3575
Shelley
CHINA’
eŕeýty6uyuiouio
Beauty
plain
(SfBSENCE
of contrast-
ing colour en-
hances the purity
of Shelley’s “Dainty
White” China, and
adds lustre to its'
beauty. White
China is once again
in vogue, and
the noble Shelley
ware—fashioned by
in a -
dress
skilful potters
from English
Bone China with
I craftsmanship in
herited for genera-
tions in the Shelley
potteries —has a
reticent charm of
,its own, suggest-
ing the quintessence
of leisured loveli-
ness.
Ask to see the latest
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
> China
Nursery Ware
by Lucie Attwell
c-Hilda Cowham
Domestic Ware
Jelly Moulds
BRITISH MA.OE
IN CASE OF ANY DIFFICULTY IN 08TAININC
WHITE TO
asa .CLARINCE
eŕeýty6uyuiouio
DON'T
ENVY OTHERS-
TAKEA HOLIDAY
YOURSELF
IN THE SOUTH OF
HEWZEALAND
The South of New Zealand offers
you a wonderful holiday of
health, happiness, sport and
sight-seeing.
Ferny dell and snow-capped
mountain placid lake and
crashing waterfall blue skies,
sunshine, sparkling nights, all
combine to thrill you with the
grandeur of Nature.
16 glorious days for £33
Steamers sail from Melbourne tea
the Bluff on
Thursday . . . February 20
Thursday March 13
Thursday April 3
and every three weeks thereafter.
Get a booklet of particulars
to-day FREE.
New Zealand Government
Agency,
E., S. & A. Bank Building,
Martin Place, Sydney.
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiimmimiimiiiitiiiminiiiiiiiimiiK
Please send me tree booklet “Sixteen Glorious
Days for £33.”
NAME . .
ADDRESS
eŕeýty6uyuiouioeŕeýty6uyuiouio
DO YOU WANT TO EARN MORE MONEY?
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and
enter a profession where there is a certainty of employment are advised to
send for our prospectus. Here is one profession where the supply is not equai
to the demand. Those enrolling during the present month receive a SPECIAL
CONCESSION.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
<*> A
*
*
V
fit
-A «
A A .S
//-
8
W <=*
r
mi =2«
M
VN
\
Dt
€*' V
V'vvX N
*tysc
hi
PVi
£
Ss;
ill
Ss=6
ing.
- £v __, V
v>/\\
—i&JtS
w/r
-v//
is by Car,
Bought on Henlys’
“Buy-Back” Plan
Henlys specialise in selling cars to visitors
from overseas, and fixing a definite price at
which they will buy back their cars at a later
date. This is easily the most convenient way
to see England: it is cheaper and more
pleasant than hiring; it is infinitely pre-
ferable to using the train. Henlys have the
largest stock of cars in England for you to
choose from, and they particularly recom-
mend such makes as Austin, Morris, etc.,
which having a good second market, can be
purchased on the “ Buy-Back ” Plan at a
£ very low rate of depreciation indeed.
HEN LYI
England’s Leading
Motor Agents
Illustrated Brochure obtainable
from The Bulletin Office 3 21 1
George Street, Sydney.
DEVONSHIRE HOUSE, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.
and at Manchester , Leeds , and Bristol _
HOME for cure of ALCOHOLISM and DRUGS
(BOTH SEXES)
Established 30 years. Highly recommended. Under medical supervision. Fully qualified matron
and staff. Effective and safe.
THE, CENTRAL MISSION INSTITUTION,
Moreland Hall, Jessie Street, Moreland, Melbourne.
Telephone: Brunswick 744.
“You?” rapped out McCurdie in surprise.
“Yes. I’ve talked it over with Jeff, and
he doesn’t want to go himself. He’s had
enough of the road this last year or two.
And it might be weeks before we picked
up a boss-drover.”
“It’ll mean going right on to Sydney in
the cattle-train,” McCurdie objected.
“Oh, well, I can stick that,” said Boyd.
“You’ll be staying on here for a little while
longer, won’t you?”
“For a month or two. But I don’t
sec”
“I may as well take my spell while I
have a chance,” said Boyd. “I’ve been
feeling I need a change. Besides, there
are things I want to settle up in Sydney.”
McCurdie did not say any more, but a
slight shadow fell across his face. So he
wanted a change already! He was dis-
turbed by Boyd’s manner more than his
words by the slight brusqueness in him
and the evasiveness of his eyes. As if he
had been thinking in secret over the idea
of dropping his bundle! McCurdie’s in-
stinct, so subtle and sensitive where his
son was concerned, told him that for some
reason or other Boyd was anxious to get
away.
CHAPTER XX.
McCurdie Makes Discoveries.
The autumn had changed to early winter.
There were brilliant, hard days, with the
sun giving out no more than a mellow heat
at noon, and long nights that were nipped
with frost. The men gathered in the even-
ings in the kitchen to play cards or listen
to Larry Byrne’s gramophone, making roar-
ing fires in the big range; and Mrs. Cleary,
the new housekeeper, who had been finding
the place lonely after the rush and excite-
ment of. the township hotel, hovered around
them with coffee and griddle-cakes. There
were always strangers dropping in for the
evening now—passing drovers, shearers,
fencing-contractors. The life of the place
pivoted round the kitchen and the men’s
quarters, and all news of the district came
from there.
Although the cattle had been sold and
his responsibility ended, Boyd did not im-
mediately return. He wrote from Sydney
saying that he would be staying there for
a few weeks, but apparently he did not
think it necessary to give any reason. He
had never formed the habit of writing
letters, and the short note he sent his
father was devoted entirely to calculations
about the weight the cattle had lost in the
trucks and the prices they had brought in
the saleyards.
McCurdie was uneasy when the weeks
passed without any sign of his return. There
seemed something ominous in the delay.
The fact that Ada was growing restless
increased his own concern. She had already
made preparations for leaving, and did
nothing but pore over catalogues of furni-
ture or read the social reports in the
weekly papers. In the tension created by
the fear that her plans might still go
wrong, even her good humor failed her.
“What on earth’s keeping him?” she
asked her husband impatiently. “It looks
as if he’s thrown all responsibility for the
place on your shoulders again. Pulled out
at the last moment and left us both in the
lurch! It’s simply beastly of him to write
as if he didn’t care.”
“Don’t worry!” McCurdie assured her.
“Boyd’s not the sort to go back on his
tracks. His word’s worth more than any
other man’s writing. I told him he needn’t
hurry back, and he won’t find it easy
to get away later on. Good Lord, you
don’t grudge him a little breather, do you?”
“No,” she said, “but I’m not so sure as
you are that he’s accepted the life here.
It was all right when Barbara was just
over the skyline, of course.”
“Poof! I don’t believe he ever troubled
his head about her or any other woman,”
said McCurdie. “Take my word for it,
he’ll be back inside a fortnight, ready to
put his neck in the collar again.”
It was a mere evasion. He was as upset
as Ada, really, by the suddenness with
which Boyd had gone off and the atmo-
sphere of vagueness that hung about his
movements down in Sydney. As he went
about the place, seeing that all the wires
were kept tight in the home-fences, that
the hides were wired and ready for the
horse-teams, that the big stallion’s feet
were in good condition, he was haunted
by the thought that he did not know very
much about the workings of his son’s mind.
All sorts of schemes for the future might
be fermenting there for all he could tell!
That good-fellowship they had shared when
they were out camping was illusory; there
was no substance in it, in spite of the way
he had valued it at the time. Not once
had they exchanged a word they were
reluctant for the men and blackboys to
hear! Not once had Boyd given him a
glimpse of what life meant to him. During
the week or so before he went off with
the cattle he had had a suspicion that there
was something on his son’s mind, but Boyd
had kept as close as an oyster. And for
the life of him he couldn’t make any
intimate approach to him and ferret out
what the trouble was! If only they weren’t
both so infernally tongue-tied!
{To be continued next weeJc.)
The Dreamless One.
Still reaps the dreamless one, still spins and
delves,
Though old dreams moulder on their grey-
webbed shelves;
And gods lie stark, for Fate has no pretence
And Time no reticence!
Old banner-wraiths drip down like faded
flames.
Red shreds of glory o’er forgotten names!
Who reeks them now? Above the great
planes purr:
“These are not, though they were!”
Like stone-webbed spider shapes, the gaunt
cranes feel
Across the sky with finger-tips of steel!
And ’mid the street-clefts, tides of tawny
light,
Pulsing in purple night,
Still delves the dreamless one, still reaps
and spins
And dully loves his loves, and grotesque sms
Savors in swinishness —and still afar
Truth waits, a wistful star.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.
Who Cries?
Who cries alone in the darkness? No pale
moon
Or stars are shining. It is nearly morn... -
Morn, and no promise of the golden noon.
But there is rustle of wind through fields
of invisible corn;
And someone walks alone in the dark and
cries; .
Lowly, and sweetly, and with an infinite
sorrow.
Is it a soul whose body at this hour dies
That cries farewell to the earth before the
morrow?
Now in this hour, before the light of day,
It yet may walk the woods, and find a
rose
lu some remembered hedge along the way;
It still may seek the beauty that it knows,
One last time. In the darkness and alone,
It bids farewell to all familiar things
That it has lost, the earth and sea and sun,
Life and the lute. But hear! The first
bird sings.
LONDON.
D. P. MCGUIRE.
Success.
ILis life’s success a failure,
He deems as death comes to him;
A moment in a lifetime
Will as a dream undo him.
The solid stuff he clung to
Turns to a mist and leaves him;
It is not death of glory,
But life itself bereaves him.
life is a failure surely! .
It is but death will flourish
On all that he has lived for,
On all that he would nourish.
R. CRAWFORD.
Morning Song.
The sun’s yellow magic
Embroidered the glade,
And bright-fingered trees wrought
Green patterns of shade.
Pink daisies enamelled
The morn’s . emerald gown,
And dandelions buckled
Her shoon, bracken-brown.
Above bluely blossomed
The flower of the sky;
A cloud fluttered o’er it,
A pale butterfly.
A bird redly lighting
A young willow-tree
Sweetly pretended
A flute he would be.
So he piped lightly
Of ardent young spring,
Whose rainbow desire sets
The earth blossoming.
And a merry stream danced,
In small shoes of jade,
Bewitchingly through
The green-shadowed glade
A bird had enchanted
When he silverly
And sweetly pretended
A flute he would be.
MAORILAND.
Ivy GIBBS.
Lonesome Bay.
Saffron gold, serene horn-poppies
Open goblets to the day,
Lift them full of sunny light;
Far along the beach they glitter,
Pagan altar-cups’ array,
Thin and bright.
Not a mark of human footsteps
Dimples tide-smoothed yellow floor
From the water to the trees,
Whose mistletoe in threads of crimson
Strews and stitches on the shore
Embroideries.
One by one, with softest movement,
Ocean’s heartbeats manifest,
Little waves too young for foam
Curl upon their chosen pillow,
Crooning, as they sink to rest,
“We are home.’’
From the creeper-curtained bushes
Comes a fox with dainty tread
To the sea-edge boldly down;
Stands and gazes there for minutes,
While the sunshine burns to red
His rich brown.
Unafraid and peaceful, pondering
Who knows what? His amber eyes
Dream across the salt blue plain:
Then he turns and walks sedately
To liis thicket dark and wise
Back again.
One by one, with sighs of pleasure
(“Hush, oh, hush! We reach the land,
All our pretty hopes are sped”),
Little waves, too young for color,
Lay their foreheads on the sand
And are dead.
VICTORIA.
ELSIE COLE.


P ublic appreciation of Chevrolet
value is unmistakably shown
greatest Chevrolet in
history sets new sales
records for quality cars
jf CHEVROLET Jj 1
1
£
In the complete range of Chevrolet Six Motor Cars you will find a model to su it
you, at an attractive price. All fully equipped. Your dealer will gladly quot&
you on the model of your choice.
THE motoring public of the
world has voiced unqualified
approval of the Chevrolet Six
—by buying 1,350,000 of them in
the year 1929. Here is unmistak-
able evidence of the desire of
motorists for something more than
mere transportation.
Each year for the past five
Chevrolet sales have surpassed
those of the previous year by wide
margins. 1929 was the greatest
year in Chevrolet history—due solely
and entirely to the instant public
recognition and acceptance of the
six-cylinder idea as applied to cars
of low initial cost.
For people were ready for six-
cylinder smoothness, power, flexi-
bility , and comfort.
When the Chevrolet Six of to-day made these qualities
available in the field of the low-priced car, the response was
sweeping and tremendous. It did not take long for shrewd
buyers to discover that economical transportation could also
be transportation of refinement, comfort, and quality—with the
Chevrolet of to-day !
To-day, Chevrolet superiority is everywhere acknowledged.
Engineers and motoring experts agree on the fundamental
soundness of its design—and the performance records Chev-
rolet has made attest the manufacturing skill and painstaking
care which enter into the construction of each and every car
which bears the distinctive Chevrolet mark.
This, the greatest Chevrolet in Chevrolet history, is the
greatest value that motordom to-day affords. A real leader
—outdistancing the field—the Chevrolet Six of to-day will
continue to provide these essentials of motoring satisfaction
for which it stimulated demand.
. . . and really satisfactory
in appearance ....
Just as every Chevrolet mechanical feature transcends
“mere transportation,” so the outward beauty of every model
in the line proclaims the quality car. The knowledge of the
skilled body designer is apparent in the modern streamlined
proportions. Likewise the colourings reflect the benefit of
three years of research and study of Australian likes and
dislikes on this important question. As to interior finish,
fittings, and appointments—look inside and note the difference!
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR.
Convenient payments can be arranged on the liberal
G.M.A.C. Terms Plan. *
GENERAL MOTORS (Australia) PTY. LTD.
Brisbane - Sydney - Melbourne - Adelaide - Perth
CHEVROLET
FOR EVERYBODY EVERYWHERE
Metropolitan Distributors:
Metropolitan Motors Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
John McGrath Ltd., 155 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Stokoe Motors Pty. Ltd., 559-565 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
City Motors Ltd., 95 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Skipper Bailey Motor Co. Ltd., 900 Hay Street, Pirth.
It’s a GENERAL MOTORS car
—look inside and note the difference!


No More Sickness!
Startling Benefits to both Men and Women
when Poisons Driven Out this Harmless Way
; ' '' ' ' . ... ‘ / ■' V ' ' ' \
Remarkable Relief in even Severe Cases of Dizziness,
Tired u Worn” Feeling, Backache, Rheumatism, Joint
and Limb Pains, Bladder Weakness, Faulty Elimination,
Colon Disorders, Blurred Sight, Headaches, Etc.
MWAYS UNFIT
*
*
*
X
»
!
&/.
0*
5*
\\v;
*&y*\£k
€&
{s/}
(?4
&5
\t*
VPi
ft-
*sS
V
A
*5
1
Top
0
<6
■«*
9“
*
.'X
*erv
/@fF
k=sgS
&
NOW HAS BRIGHT EYES,CLEAR
COMPLEXION, NO HEADACHES.
Your blood decides your health and strength, and will probably decide
how long you’ll live. Blood feeds your brain, nerves, muscles—even your
teeth, hair and nails! Blood “doped” with uric-acid poisons means the
torture of backache, head pains, body pains, restless nights and sickness. In
the end it may mean severe kidney or bladder disease —even heart trouble.
THESE ARE FACTS. Find the remedy. Read on, ACT, and so safeguard
your vital health,
The One REAL Remedy
The one reliable, effective remedy is Harrisons Pills, made from a famous prescription, bearing Dr.
Harrison’s signature on every genuine package. Harrison s Pills are positively the only effective
specialised uric-acid remedy definitely guaranteed NOT to discolor the urine and NOT to harm the
heart.
n “I AA will be paid to anyone proving this is not a safe
Avr v/ an{ J effective remedy, bearing a genuine London
Doctor’s signature.
There is nothing to equal Harrison s Pills for those dizzy, nervy spells that make life a burden to many
women, and for the special ills that make men old as much as 20 years before their time.
One user says: “Since taking Harrisons Pills I have felt years younger. '
Another: “I Would have tried Harrisons Pills long ago but had been disappointed with so many other
things. My sister gave me some to try three Weeks ago, and I must say the pills are Wonderful. I am
now quite free from rheumatic pains which have bothered me for years.”
No Cost!
You risk nothing by trying Harrison’s Pills. Marked benefit is definitely guaranteed with the very
first bottle: if you fail to get such benefit, the price paid will be refunded by the Amalgamated
Laboratories, Sydney. If yoti want to get better —to be rid of ageing aches and pains—if you want to
get back the; elastic step of youth, brightness and freedom from headaches, back pains, dizzy spells
—if you wish-to get rid of rheumatism, constipation, blood, kidney, bladder and urinary disorders—get
a package of Harrison’s Pills to-day. 1 Any chemist or storekeeper can supply you. Three sizes: 18
pills, 2/-; 32 pills, 3/~; 68 pills, 5/T- Don't delay—live as long and as comfortably as>you easily
'can! No matter if other things have disappointed you —Harrisons s Pills will-put you right, quickly,
surely, safely. No more sickness when you banish the uric-acid poisons this prompt and harmless way.
r ~ -
V ' W v
% ,
t ■ I A.
y >:>:•••) r-


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
iii
* m
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan. Esa. s
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., CM6 **
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - - BRISBANE
With offices at London Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne Sydney and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World th"s
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.
Cuiwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY. *
eŕeýty6uyuiouio
An Excellent “Table 1
awaits you herein
A pleasing Menu, good service and\.
every convenience awaits you at
reasonable rates at the Grosvenor. Ts
Fireproof, 300 rooms, 100 bathrooms,
yale locks. Tariff from £3/10/-.
Bed and Breakfast from 6/6.
GROSVENOR
cJdelaides Finest Unlice/ised Jiotel
Opp. Railway Shi. North Terrace. ADELAIDE
AS WE SAID BEFORE
This Page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
To Men: Before marriage keep your eyes
open; after, keep them .shut.
PATRICK AGAIN.
“Howld on, Misther. If ye’d only get off and just take a look
at yerself ye’d get on again and never ride any more.”
Mudgee Haynes says that when The
Bulletin people are mouldering in their
graves he will be Premier of N.S.W. Allah
is good! We want to be dead ere Haynes is
Premier.
Under the terms of “Money” Miller’s will
nearly all his freehold estates are to be
auctioned. One little lot will be 250 acres
of land at Alphington, within four miles of
Melbourne, for which the astute financier
refused a syndicate’s offer of £250,000. He
originally secured four-fifths of that land at
£2O per acre, and th e balance at £BO per
acre. His Craigieburn estate of 1800 acres
cost him a lump sum of something over
£14,000, and will certainly fetch £135,000.
Miles of land in sundry localities will mostly
realise a corresponding profit on the original
investment, but whether the Miller family
intend to hand over this unearned increment
to the State (after deducting compound
interest) is not quite as certain as it might
be.
Never frequent places of questionable
resort. You are sure to meet there every-
body who knows you.
. The “crazy social” is the latest American
innovation in fashionable life, and, as it is
reported to be spreading to Europe and even
more distant parts, it may ultimately reach
Potts Point and other centres of Australian
intellect, and jostle the blue-moulded and
idiotic “surprise party” out of existence. The
crazy social is a simple device, and is based
upon a universal effort to run everything on
upside-down principles. Among other things,
the supper is laid on mantelpieces and sofas;
the meat is served on salvers, pickles in fire
shovels, mustard in cream pitchers, and
cheese in dustpans. The cream is in the
cruet-stand, and, after much skirmishing, the
crazy socialist finds the sugar in the fire-
place, and stirs his tea with the poker.
Wherever possible the bread is kept in a
bottle, and the soup in a basket, and one
man gets his coffee in a silver teapot, while
the next is served in a feeding-bottle. The
company endeavor to match the entertain-
ment by wearing their hats on their feet and
their boots on their heads, or by appearing
in dress-coats and kilts, and wearing spec-
tacles on their ears and drinking wine
through ear-trumpets and foghorns, and,
whenever possible, they talk backwards.
Some have their coats hauled up to the tops
of their heads, and others fasten the sleeves
round their waists
and trail the tails
behind them, and
the majority have
straws in their hair
and their collars
fastened on the
sides, while their
neckties trickle
down their backs.
Chairs are mostly
turned upside down
at the crazy social,
and consequently
sweet maidens in
Wellington boots
have to roost
amongst the upper
branches of these
inverted articles of
furniture, and dow-
ers are scattered
round in inkbottles,
cracked cups and
washtubs, while
the vases are filled
with carrots and
potato - tops. The
crazy social is
bounded only by
the limits of possi-
bility ; if human
teeth were equal to
the effort the guests
would eat chairs
and sit down on
tarts, and would
wear the fireirons
while they stirred
the fire with their
coats. In spite of
this difficulty, how-
ever, there is
abundant scope for
the exercise of the
well-developed faculty for invention in the
human race. The upside-down species of
entertainment should prove a gigantic success.
Something definite has come to hand about
Gilbert and Sullivan’s new opera, which takes
its first Australian canter at the Princess’s,
Melbourne. According to all accounts the
plot will turn upon the troubles of a ner-
vous nobleman who is required to follow in
the footsteps of a long line of wicked ances-
tors. Not having a taste for crime, this
degenerate scion of a bloodthirsty race
wanders away, after the style of Nanki Poo.
ihere are the usual Gilbertian village and
village maidens and plenty of marriage com-
plications. Altogether this opera promises to
be as funny as the rest of them, and if not
funny it will be fashionable, which comes to
the same thing from a Triumvirate point of
view. The steady growth of Gil and Sul’s
reputation is proved by the enormous success
of Mikado a very thin affair compared
with “lolanthe” and some others of the
series. _ When the divine William said:
'Vhat’s in a name?” he was poking borak at
posterity.
a ghastly story of Lambing Flat
(N.S. W.) in the golden ’sixties. A verv
diminutive butcher, after killing a dozen
sheep, hung them in the shed at the rear
of his shop and covered each with a sheet
of white calico. The claim in which he held
an interest was re-
ported that day to
be a duffer. Mad-
dened by bad luck,
he went into the
shed and banged
himself beside the
sheep. The but-
cher-boy, on enter-
ing the shed that
evening, noticed
something hanging
without a cover, so
tied one round it
and went to his
bunk. That same
nighr two robbers
entered the shed
and cut down the
body of the butcher
in mistake for a
sheep, and it was
not until next
morning, when one
of the pair was
going to cut a few
chops oif the
“sheep,” that the
horrible mistake
w a s discovered.
The midnight booty
was a fearful pos-
session in daylight.
Needless to say
there was no mut-
ton feast that
morning; neither
did they return the
stolen property,
however much they
regretted the rob-
bery. The butcher
was soon buried in
an abandoned shaft.
One of the robbers
“c lear e d” soon
after to California ;
the other died re-
cently at Kimber-
ley (W.A.). The
butcher was un-
married and alone
in the world, and
the only monument
marking the spot
DID SHE REALLY MEAN IT?
SHE (to gentleman in busy Melbourne street) : “I ike Melbourne.
There s so much more bustle here than in Sydney.”
where his bones are deposited, according to
the late Kimberley man, is a post which once
helped to support a windlass.
WANTED—A “FAT WOMAN’S
JOURNAL.”
One of the great wants of the age is a
hat Woman’s Journal.” All the fashion
papers of the day cater for the slender,
willowy darling of 22, and the fat woman and
the stout female and the fleshy creature and
the apoplectic lady and the fashionable being
who is embonpoint are as studiously ignored
as if they were absolutely non-existent. The
slender, delicately-shaped -angel has a hundred
papers devoted to her interests, all filled with
designs in which ladies sft. Tin. in height
and 18in. round the waist are shown clad in
all manner of pretty things, and with stories
about the adventures of lovely girls varying
from, 18 to 23, and as beautiful as the morn-
iug*, an J with gushing letters signed “Dora”
or “Guinevere,” which deal exclusively with
the glorious mashes perpetrated by golden
girls in golden frocks and auriferous socks,
and clad in white dresses with giraffe-sneeze
ribbons round the middle of them ; and amid
all these joys the fat woman wanders like an
outcast sinner glaring over the pearly fence
of Paradise. Even the recipes for use in
cases of sudden illness are issued solely in
the interests of the fairy-like dreams of bliss
of whom we so often read, but whom, alas!
we so seldom see except with the eye of
faith. . Instructions for treating a fainting
feminine patient are given with lavish pro-
fusion, but they invariably commence with a
peremptory command to bear the sufferer in
your arms to the open air, and the fat
woman who knows that no living mortal
could lift her without breaking his back
laughs a fiendish laugh when she reads this,
and jumps upon the dastardly pamphlet
which dares to mock her misery. It is impos-
sible that a large and influential section of
tile community can much longer submit to
this studied insult: the tim e is ripe for the
establishing of a “Fat Woman’s Journal,”
and a fortune awaits the enterprising founder
. su ch a magazine. What is wanted is an
interesting serial in which the tales shall
deal exclusively with the adventures of fat
women, and shall reveal the romantic shades
ot the fat woman’s existence, with illustra-
tions showing how the fat woman was loved
a noble youth, and how she triumphed over
a hundred enemies, and finally gave herself
to mm at the altar, and lived happily ever
afterwards. The fashion-plates, too, must be
constructed solely with the view to showing
now the obese lady is to be adorned with
pretty tilings til] she becomes a dream of love-
liness, and in the instructions for the treat-
ment of fashionable ailments the fainting
patient must be removed to the open air in
a hand-painted and enamelled wheelbarrow,
with her head upwards in order to prevent
congestion and subsequent apoplexy Even
m such' stray items as “Instructions How to
Act in a Burning Theatre,” consistency
must be maintained; the editress must no
longer advise her readers to crawl beneath
a seat to avoid being trodden on in the firs +
rush of mad excitement, well knowing all
the time that the fat woman can’t get under
the seat without bursting her clothes asunder
in 1G different places, but she must advise
subscribers to featherbed themselves with
remorseless ferocity against the crush on the
stairs, and tread with 2401 b. of humanity
on top 0 t the prostrate sufferers until she
reaches the street; and in papers on eques-
trian exercise she must lay particular stress
on the unreliable nature of the horse, and
then pass on hurriedly to explain how the
tat woman can travel bv train. These, and
a hundred other points, if carefully attended
to, would make a “Fat Woman’s Journal”
a stupendous success, and would fill a long-
telt want in the bosom of that section of
humanity winch looks like a keg of rain-
water on two feet.
WHEN THE HENS BEGAN TO BAY.
a breezy autumn morning
When the hens began to lay;
They had sounded notes of warning
All through the summer gay—
ahey had chuckled oft and loudly,
While Rooster, old and staid,
bang his Jubilate proudly
O’er the eggs they hadn’t laid.
Ah ! a vain deceiver ever
Was the Spanish, raven-plumed,
And you ne’er in life (no, never!)
Saw such airs as she assumed
On the strength of having squatted
TT F °r an hour upon the ground—
How she grunted and gavotted
To the prize we never found!
The Dorkings and the Cochin
They were every bit as bad—
Always strutting, shrieking, watching
Near an empty nest, begad!
And how often has the Brahma
Gammoned Mary Ann to say:
“Don’t, for Heaven’s sake, alarm her,
For I think she’s on the lay!”
A cry which made our flesh creep
(Half a hiccup, half a howl)
Would come wailing from the woodheap,
Where an ancient speckled fowl
Of “breed unknown” pretended
She laid dozens on the sticks;
Though her daily troubles ended
In the English word for nix.
Oh ! the bitter cup of sorrow
We have drained it to the dregs,
Sadly waiting for the morrow
In the blighted hope of eggs;
Of the lesson in vexation
To be learned by erring men
As they study for salvation
There is nothing beats a hen.
EDMUND FISHER.
LALYA.
BY FRANCIS ADAMS.
Coy, she sits, bent down,
Her fingers strike the strings,
the broken and caught-up rhythm,
Wherewith the snake-drum rings.
Her back-hair is wound on the top,
Her ivory neck is sweet;
Her jacket’s snow-white, her trousers blue
How dainty her upturned feet!
Lalya, I cannot say
What is thrilling my poor heart so,
But if you’d only lift up your face
And look, I think you'd know.


Banking. Public Companies, etc.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. •• ••
Preference Shares .. • • • •
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 70J,1^0
Ordinary Shares .. • • • • 3,750,00
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS 'S',
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
WITH
his purchase of space
in “The Telegraph”
the advertiser acquires
the permanent interest
of an organisation
containing experts on
every aspect of the
printing business.
AND-
both reader and pur-
chaser appreciate the
workmanship.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co. Ltd.
Queen Street,
Brisbane.
Sydfrfiv Representative: N. L. ROBERTS,
Country Press Co-op. of Aust., Ltd.,
Barrack Street, Sydney.
Contains everything a woman needs to know
Shipping, etc.
Winter Here is
Summer There!
Holiday in HAWAII
Sou th Sea Isle of Sunshine and Surf
Sail by the Niagara or Aorangi
May 29 June 26 July 24
£75 First Saloon, £55 Second (Return)
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN
EXCURSIONS TO HAWAII
eŕeýty6uyuiouio
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., 247 George Street, Sydney
rst
\S
‘.V#
jrve
Gill 0/the soloinons
Full of charm and Interest the Solomon
Islands are only 7 days’ steaming north-
east of Sydney.
To those in search of an Ideal Sea
Trip the opportunity should be now
availed of for a Holiday Cruise among
these Wonderful Coral Islands.
The S.S. “MATARAM” sails from Sydney
30th April and 11th June, visiting more
than a score of Picturesque Island Ports.
Round Trip 4* Weeks.
Fare £4l Return.
Write for Booklet No. 52/S to
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD.
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
bank of
NEW SOUTH
established m 7
WALES
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
eŕeýty6uyuiouio
£7,500,000
o
o
o
(M
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
088 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
itorvof New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world,
auf mSn.« .end ir,u, drawn o„, Foreign place, BISECT Foreign Bill, Begot!.,ed
and ejected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Queensland’s
Largest and Most
Effective Advertising
Medium —
THE “BRISBANE COURIER”
These amazing comparison figures should prove beyond all doubt the
superiority of the “Brisbane Courier” as an advertising medium: —
FOR YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1929.
“Brisbane Courier”: Two other Brisbane dailies—one a
29 1521 morning, the other an evening:
columns of advertising. 28,672£
columns of advertising.
This is easily the strongest evidence, too, that the “Courier” is first in
CIRCULATION, COVERAGE, ADVERTISING AND INFLUENCE.
Specimen copies and Rate Cards from Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Published by the Brisbane Newspaper Co., “Courier” Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Shipping, etc.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
\ND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
11,500 tons, March 15
tCeramic . . 18,500 „ March 25
*Ulysses . . 15,000 „ April 18
*Anchises . . 10,000 ~ May 6
♦First class only. +“Cabin” class only.
1 First and third class.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd. )
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.)
Joint
Agents
SPLENDID CHEAP SERVICE
Via Suez Canal.
FAST OIL BURNERS
Fares to London from £3B.
To Colombo from £22.
Special Excursion Return Tickets to
Colombo issued from Sept, to Feb., £32-
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
SPACIOUS DECKS—DECK CABINS—EXCELLENT
MENU—CINEMA —DANCE MUSIC REPRODUCED
WITH ELECTRIC AMPLIFIERS —
CANVAS SWIMMING BATH
Freight Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Joint Passenger Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Tel • 86701 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.,
Tel.: 87512. 247 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart ParkerLis?
Magnifloent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per d*jJy_P a P. e J. s ;___
For full particulars apply HUdDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
BRITAIN-
MAKE YOUR TOUR
COMPLETE.
The Highways of Romance and the
Historical Cathedral Cities are all
awaiting you. The route is by the
LN E R
Up to Scotland by the
FLYING SCOTSMAN
hours’ non-stop run.
London to Edinburgh
Restaurant, Hairdressing Saloon,
Bookstall on the train.
Tour by the LONDON & NORTH-
EASTERN RAILWAY for
LUXURY,
SPEED,
COMFORT
Apply for full particulars to t
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and
Branches.
Agents throughout Australasia.
Übe dominion.
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily.
Published In Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion" is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481. WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from —
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
South Australian
Perpetual Forests L t - d
MESSAGE No. 4.
A Safe Investment
We are buying the highest quality land available
J spending more per bond on development, we
believe, that any other company. We have provided
147 miles of fire-breaks—safeguarded against risks by
a special insurance scheme. Remember there are over
4,500 uses for pine timber, and the prices are rising.
Investigate our proposition now and share in the
profits.
Growing timber is growing gold.
eŕeýty6uyuiouio
This is Your Protection.
To distinguish
South Australian Perpetual Forests Ltd.
from those companies now using similar
names, we have registered for the
Company’s exclusive use the title design
illustrated above, and the “Pine-tree”
trademark shown. Literature published
by us always contains these designs.
South Australian
Perpetual Forests Ltd.
Bowman Buildings,
King William Street, Adelaide.
(Plantations: Penola ?nd Mt. Gambler,
South Australia.)
POST THIS COUPON WITHOUT DELAY!
To South Australian Perpetual Forests Ltd.,
Bowman Buildings, King William Street, Adelaide.
Please forward your booklet “Tree Farming” to—
Name —...
Address
eŕeýty6uyuiouio
HAWAII WAIKIKI
LAND OF SUNSHINE, SURF AND SONG
Romantic Places You’ve Always Wanted to See
An emerald set in the blue Pacific—an Island Paradise —Honolulu,
and the Hawaiian Islands.
Only 13 days from Sydney, its pleasures are awaiting you —its fascina-
tions are eager to claim you —its sensations to thrill you —its beauties
to enslave you.
Just think of it! Surf board, and outrigger riding on Waikiki Beach,
golf on the very lip of Kilauea Volcano, delicious tropical fruits,
strange native foods, Hula Hula dances, music and song by, happy,
carefree, beautiful Hawaiian girls, new sights, new scenes, new
experiences.
All of these are yours in lovely, dreamy, beautiful, colourful Hono-
lulu, Hawaii.
Special excursion fares now available, £75 first class return; £55 second
class return; available for 3 months. 33 days inclusive tour (covering
all expenses), £B5 first class, £65 second class.
S.S. SIERRA S.S. SONOMA S.S. VENTURA
SAILING EVERY THIRD SATURDAY FROM CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY
For SUVA, PAGO PAGO, HONOLULU and SAN FRANCISCO.
% Oceanic
NATSON LINE
12 Bridge Street, Sydney
Local Mcllwi aith, McEacharn Ltd.
Agents: Dalgety & Company Ltd.
Dalgety 8c Company Ltd.
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Fremantle,
Albany.
Brisbane, and all Queensland Ports.
Write for descriptive
folder, rr A Holiday
in Hawaii"
Name
Address C-30
The Battle of El Barrazhe.
AN ACCOUNT OF AN ACTION THAT DOES NOT APPEAR IN THE
OFFICIAL HISTORY OF THE FIRST LIGHT-HORSE BRIGADE—BY
CHARLES COOPER,
ABDUL IBN MOHAMMED, devout fol-
lower of liis namesake the Prophet,
possessed a very black face and a walk-
ing-out robe of color an exceedingly dirty
white.
The dark-featured gentleman was inter-
ested in the butter industry, as he owned
a flock of a hundred goats. From their
cream Abdul’s four wives, in primitive
fashion, manufactured the butter that their
lord and master purveyed at the produce
bazaar in Cairo, to which city he journeyed
twice a week.
The butter was transported on the heads
of his wives, whilst Abdul himself, comfort-
ably seated on his rugged little hamar (don-
key), kept pace with their bare feet, jing-
ling with bangles around their ankles as
they walked majestically along, each one
proud in the knowledge that she was one of
the four Mrs. Abdul Ibn Mohammed. Abdul
carried a whip, which he applied liber-
ally—and impartially—to wives or donkey,
whichever demonsti*ated any lagging ten-
dencies. It was several miles from his
mud-and-straw residence to Cairo, and in
order to arrive strictly on schedule time the
whip was a necessity.
As Egyptian wealth goes, Abdul was be-
coming very affluent. Prices had soared.
Business was good. The cream contained a
high percentage of butterfat, for he fre-
quently changed his feeding grounds, seeking
new pastures for his flock to graze upon.
He did this about once a fortnight.
Sometimes when moving from one locality
to another he drove his goats along in the
early hours of the morning, before the burn-
ing rays of the African sun caused the
ground to radiate fierce heat; at other times
he waited until the curtain of night had
descended, and then, in the cool fragrant
depths of the evening, drove his quadrupeds
along the banks of the Nile, where date
palms, uprearing their pendulent green foli-
age, studded the banks like emeralds.
Like many of his compatriots, he placed
piastres in a higher realm than honor. He
had recently adopted get-rich-quick tactics
by selling Fatima, his little twelve-year-old
daughter, to a Cairene business man who
profitably traded in souls in one of the vile
side-streets off Wogh el Burkha. By this
successful transaction he benefited to the
extent of 500 piastres (£5), and in the sacred
precincts of the splendid mosque in Shariah
Kernel he offered profuse thanks to Allah
the Most High, the Compassionate and the
Merciful, for having supplied the inspiration.
Abdul Ibn Mohammed certainly was doing
well—until an event happened which con-
siderably disorganised his butter business.
* * * *
Much water etcetera had flowed beneath
the Kasr el Nil bridge, and much wealth
had been acquired by ebony-faced residents
of Cairo, since the streets first echoed with
the firm, rhythmic tread of Australian feet,
as, passing over the bridge, they tramped
opt along the lebbock-lined road leading to
the Pyramids.
It was March 8, 1919; the day that the
firebrand Nationalist Zaghul Pasha and his
three Wafd confederates had been deported
to Malta by the British Government.
Throughout the City of the Caliphs busi-
ness was proceeding as usual. At the cafes
chantants in Boulevard Clot Bey and Boule-
vard Abdul Aziz the Bohemian singers were
caterwauling to khaki-clad audiences ;■ from
the direction of the Wazzir-—that mysterious
locality in which dwelt every shape and form
of degraded humanity—sounds of hectic
barrel-organ music emanated ; in the three-
storeyed houses along Wogh el Burkha, black-
eyed dancing bints tripped the light fantastic,
in their state of considerable undress; at the
Suk el Hamzawi and Square Attab el Kadra,
the Coptic and Armenian merchants worthily
vied with their Mohammedan fellow-trades-
men in the exorbitance of their prices.
From the length and breadth of the Muski
the daily bedlam of noises was in progress.
This consisted of the braying of heavily-
laden donkeys, moaning and snarling of
cumbrous camels, barking of lean dogs, crack-
ing of gharry-drivers’ whips, tooting of
motor-horns, clanging of trams, roar of
dispatch riders’ motor-bikes, and .shouts and
oaths in Arabic, French, Greek, Italian,
English and other tongues. And above the
smell of camels and burning oil, aroma of
Eastern spices, scent of the painted ladies
dressed in the minimum, perfumes of roses
in the Gezireh Gardens, stink of the unbe-
lievably insanitary streets and stench from
the ill-famous hovels; above the clanging
of sounds from the bazaars as goldsmiths,
silversmiths, coppersmiths and tinsmiths
welded their wares ; above and throughout all
the assorted living phases of degeneracy and
refinement, civilisation and barbarism, know-
ledge and ignorance, poverty and wealth,
paganism. Christianity and Mohammedanism
—-above all this, arose the cry of “Baksheesh’!
Gibbit baksheesh !”
Nevertheless, behind all the variegated
activity, there seemed to be an element of
something indefinable yet tangible.
It _ was in the actions of brown-skinned
individuals who chatted under the verandahs
of the alfresco cafes near Ezbekieli Gardens;
it was reflected on the faces of waiters
who perambulated the piazza at Shepheard’s
Hotel; it appeared in the houri-like eyes of
veiled beautiful women, as they peered from
out the. latticed windows of their harems •
it was in the voice of the Muezzin as from
his minaret he called the Faithful to
prayers; it was in the gait of fruit-hawkers
and water-sellers as they plied their callings
along the Bulaq ; it radiated from fellalmen
robed in purple galabiehs and brown felt
skull-caps, as they alighted at the station
from the outlying villages: it surrounded
the faces of young hot-blooded A 1 Azhar
students, like a halo of sedition, as they
entered or emerged from the gates of the
University.
It was everywhere—a seething, bubbling
lava of suppressed hatred against British
administration, British officials, British sol-
diers and the very name British.
* * * *
Seated in the Cafe Egyptien, opposite
Shepheard’s Hotel, Sergeant Steve Swanson,
broad-shouldered, black-haired and possessed
of a pair of brown eyes that twinkled per-
petually, was celebrating his last few days in
Egypt- With him was his cobber, Trooper
Jim Murchison, tall and lanky, and with a
thirst in keeping with the length of his
body. They both belonged to the 3rd Light
Horse Regiment, which had been demobbed.
Their horses and equipment handed in, the
two friends were enjoying a couple of days
final leave in Cairo before embarking for
the land of golden wattle-blossom.
The sergeant raised his glass of Pyramids
beer, and addressed the trooper seated beside
him : “Six weeks from to-day, Jim, and I’ll
be celebrating my 21st birthday in Young
and Jackson’s!”
“Well, here’s good luck to it —and Chloe,"
replied Jim. “And may your shadow never
grow less.”
The two liglit-horsemen bent their elbows.
“Hard to believe you’re nearly home,”
observed Steve, placing his glass on
the table. “’Struth, at Gaza I would have
sold out for half a piastre,” he reminisced.
“And when I clicked for that darn ’flu in
Damascus, I thought I was going to turn my
toes up,” Jim confessed. “You ought to have
seen the way they were peggin’ out in the
hospital. Some of ’em were Dinkums, too —
old originals. Rotten luck it was.”
Silence for a moment, as they mutually
thought of those who had found a nesting-
place amid the olive and orange groves of
Palestine.
Then the silence was broken by Troop r
Murchison. “Have another?” he asked, look-
ing around for a waiter. He seemed to anti-
cipate the reply.
“Can a flea hop?” Steve answered. “One
of those big brownisli-black cows that used
to come over from the Turk’s lines at night.”
“Walad ,” called the trooper to a passing-
waiter, dressed in white shirt and red waist-
band, “two more beers, igaree!”
But the dusky youth did not respond to the
order. Instead he suddenly deserted his
occupation by dropping his tray of glasses,
and rushing out of the building. From out-
side suddenly rose a medley of wild shouts
and terrible cries, as though the entire
Egyptian population had become demented.
The 1919 Rebellion had broken out.
Hastily shop-window shutters were put
up; proprietors and clients alike rushed
frantically out of doors; from a neighboring
barber’s establishment a customer with one
half of his face shaved and the other half
lathered leaped from his chair like a
rocket and dashed from the shop; money-
changers hastily gathered in their coins, and
abandoned their posts at street corners;
native jugglers and magicians intently occu-
pied in turning rabbits into pigeons on the
street pavement in front of hotels suddenly
lost all interest in their expositions of black
magic in favor of rioting; ragged mendicants
who had been blind for years were miracu-
lously restored to normal sight, and lent a
willing hand in the creation of mad chaos.
Fanned into flame by the deportation of
the Nationalists, the A 1 Azhar students,
already as inflammable as cordite, through
reading seditious literature and attending
revolutionary secret meetings, united in a
mad fanatical throng and joined in with
agitators who were parading the streets
shouting for independence and the retuxm of
the deported Pashas. To the cries of “Down
with the English!” they rushed headlong
through the narrow streets. Tram-cars were
boarded. The maddened overflow clambered
on to the tops of the trams. They were
joined by wildly shrieking women, who pro-
duced stones from within their personal
wardrobes and indiscriminately aimed them
at European civilians, soldiers, shop windows
and inoffending lamp posts, according to their
sense of humor. Egyptian flags, somewhat
similar in appearance to the Turkish flag,
were unfurled and waved frantically by men
and women.
“Bit of a brawl somewhere,” exclaimed
Steve, as the sounds grew in volume.
“Things seem a bit willing,” acquiesced
Jim. “Let’s make a reconnaissance. It’s
a good while since I saw a decent dog fight.”
They xvalked to the doorway.
“Gawd strike me bloomin’ hooray,” gasped
the sergeant. “Talk about the battle of the
Wazzir! Not in it with this! ’Struth,
there’s going to be some fun soon !”
“Dicken there’s not!” replied Jim.
A seething mass of black- and brown-
skinned humanity, arrayed in all the colors
of the East, rushed wildly past them. Ser-
geant Swanson’s Australian countenance did
not find favor with an Egyptian lady, who,
with deadly accuracy, spat in his left eye as
she screamed: “Ya liinzeer! Ya kelb tin
kelb!” This was informing the sergeant
that he was a pig and the son of a dog. Her
oratory, however, was not quite as expres-
sive as that of her neighbor, Mrs. Mahmoud
Hamid, who selected Trooper Murchison as
the target for the eloquence of her vitupera-
tion. “Spawn of the gutter!” she shrieked.
“Tail end of a camel! Offspring of a dog
whose sire was a pig! Son of a social evil!
Son of a hundred nameless fathers! Son of
a she-goat who was fatherless! Son of the
sting of a wasp! Son of the bray of a
diseased donkey!” Whilst listening to the
lady’s unflattering comments on his ancestry,
the trooper suddenly ducked his head as
another amazon propelled a stone at him
with more enthusiasm than love. It smashed
the shop window of the cafe to pieces.
“Things aren’t too healthy with these
colored suffragettes out on the razzle,” ob-
served the trooper.
Steve, temporarily speechless, was still
wiping his eye when a picquet of military
police arrived, shouting orders for all troops
to report immediately to the Kasr el Nil
barracks.
The two light-horsemen, already well
versed in the art of self-preservation needed
little persuasion, and soon they were at the
barracks. Here, in possession of a rifle and
bayonet and two hundred rounds of ammuni
tion, they felt considerably more at home
(Continued on next page.)


<3
h
A£S
Baby has the
right idea
** he wants
Cutieura
SO AP and TALCUM
for his daily bath!
Cleansing - Soothing - Antiseptic
Soap Is., Ointment Is. and 2s.
Talcum Is. 3d. Sample each free.
Address: "R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S.W.”
HAIR
V
fsIEED
HERES
•umy-
eŕeýty6uyuiouio
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
SfrcULemis (.Mexican)
UkUtud Stain
THE GREY**
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (4/6), 6d. being postage.
eŕeýty6uyuiouio
There are seven
reasons why
§5
I
Guinness
IS GOOD FOR YOU
No* 2
FOR
NERVES
Guinness is good
for “ nerves.” It
contains phos-
phates and other
valuable natural
constituents.
A glass of Guinness at dinner or
supper, or upon going to bed, is
wonderfully soothing and rebuilds
the nerves while you sleep.
Guinness is a delicious beverage,
preserving the natural virtues of the
hops, malt and yeast from which it
is brewed.
N.B.— One pint of Guinness Foreign Extra Stout has a malt
carbohydrate content equal to one and a half pints of pure dairy milk.
Together with a varied assembly of Aus-
tralians from other units they were hastily
marched to the station and- entrained for
their regiment. On arrival back at their
camp they were re-issued with horses and
equipment, and a couple of days afterwards
visions of home faded as they marched out
of the lines, in battle formation* to quell the
rebellion, which had spread from Cairo up
and down the Nile valley.
In Cairo itself the demonstrations of agi-
tators and students had rapidly developed
into rioting • the rioting became an uncon-
trollable orgie of looting. The bazaars were
pillaged. Tradesmen were murdered and cut
to pieces by the women. Armenians and
Syrians deserted their shops and fled into
the desert. Clashes between the rioters and
soldiers took place; they became a daily
occurrence, with fatalities on both sides. The
combats became fiercer. A mob of several
hundred became over-zealous and attacked a
machine-gun. The machine-gun won.
Everywhere robbery and violence set in.
Unarmed Englishmen were slaughtered at
Beirut, and their bodies horribly butchered
by the fanatical mob. Anarchy reigned
throughout Egypt. Railway lines were rooted
up; stations and signal-boxes burnt; tele-
graph lines pulled down; banks of irriga-
tion canals cut; European houses razed to
the ground.
# * * *
Five weeks have passed. The business-like
expressions on the faces of the squadrons
of mounted light-horsemen, as they patrolled
the various villages of the Nile "delta, had
had a remarkable soothing effect on the
fellaheen. Except in isolated cases, murder,
sabotage and rioting had ceased in the vil-
lages. The backbone of the rebellion had
been broken. But several good Diggers, after
having survived Gallipoli, bloody Gaza and
the final triumphant march on Damascus
that destroyed the Turkish armies, had
given their lives. Their graves lay scattered
throughout the Nile valley, for some of the
rebel snipers, with stolen British rifles and
ammunition, had aimed straight.
Some miles along the Nile from Cairo a
point is reached of surpassing beauty. This
is El Barrazhe. In the centre of the river,
glistening like a gem, rests an island of luxu-
rious verdure, flowering shrubs and gardens,
stately date palms, tamarisks and lebbocks.
From the sides of the Nile’s banks a
weir (one of the many monuments of British
engineering that abound throughout Egypt)
has been constructed. At each end of it
appears a tower of imposing dimensions, ris-
ing some thirty or forty feet, and at its
base a cement room has been built.
In one room, converted into a miniature
fort, Sergeant Swanson, Trooper Murchison
and the rest of his squadron were stationed.
It was their duty to protect the waterworks
and surrounding country from possible
attack by bands of rebels. In case of attack
they had very definite orders, from which
leniency and drawing-room etiquette were
rigidly excluded.
A supply of two or three dozen Mills
bombs, a machine-gun and rifles and
bayonets constituted the means of defence.
And these weapons, in the experienced hands
fif an exceedingly irritable and annoyed
squadron of light-horsemen, impatient at
the delay in returning to their homes, were
formidable —particularly in the charge of an
”.c.o. of the calibre of Sergeant Swanson,
D.C.M.
“Well, Steve, you slipped that day in the
Cafe Egyptien when you reckoned you’d
have your 21st birthday in Aussie,” observed
Jim. as the two of them stood smoking.
“I’ve been thinking of that,” replied Steve.
“I’ve decided to keep it up at El Barrazhe.”
“Good walad!” answered Jim. “When’s
the date?”
“To-day week,” was the reply. “We’ve
got exactly a week in which to prepare. I’ll
arrange for some of the boys to go into
Cairo and bring out that which gladdens the
hearts of thirsty souls!”
♦ . ♦ ❖ %
“Gentlemen of the King—and Light Horse-
men,” hiccoughed Trooper Murchison for the
tenth time, “let us stand (hie) and drink
to the health (hie) of our illustrious ser-
geant (hie) on the notable occasion (hie)
of his attaining his (hie) majority.”
The dozen or more troopers, the pride of
Allenby’s crusaders, stood very unsteadily.
Then of one accord well-filled dixies were
raised to lips, and to the cordial sentiments
of “Good old Steve! Stcve’U do us!” the
toast was honored, after which each one sat
down somewhat uncertainly on his blankets
and equipment.
“Best war I’ve ever been in,” remarked
one warrior, at peace with the world in
general.
“Do me,” agreed Trooper Murchison.
“Boxin’ on with Gyppos (hie) is incompar-
able (hie) improvement to stoushin’
Jackos!”
“Fill ’em up again,” quoth one trooper
with a large carrying capacity. The mounted
dixies were filled again.
“Let’s knock another one rotten—never
drink to-morrow what you can drink to-day,”
was the argument advanced by another
member of the convivial gathering.
And so the birthday party proceeded.
Their voices grew thick and yet thicker.
Trooper Murchison began to see several
Niles, and was with difficulty restrained from
diving in to eount them. Sergeant Swanson
himself became consumed with the lust of
battle, and declared that he was more than
a match for the entire Egyptian army. He
became playful; so much- so that he picked
up one of the bombs and began toying with
the pin. This had a remarkably sobering
effect on the remainder of the company, who
could not get out of the room quickly enough.
From a distance observing him discard
the bomb in favor of a bottle of liquid, they
plucked up courage and re-entered the fort.
Evening flew; night came. Gradually
drowsiness crept over the gathering. There
was no moon, and soon the pall "of night
wrapt the tower in black darkness. Outside
the purple dome of the heavens was studded
with countless stars, which glittered like
miniature jewels. Inside, a steady .snoring
from two or three corners of the room indi-
cated that a number of the gathering had
lost all interest in the annual event. Ser-
geant Swanson sat beside the open doorway.
He had neither inclination nor ability to
undress. Trooper Murchison had made an
effort to undress him, but had fallen asleep
in the attempt.
Silence, save for the snores, settled over
the room. The sergeant closed his eyes,
nodded his head, rolled over on his side. He
partially awoke with a start, swore ; and
rolled over beside the bombs. Again he
closed his eyes, muttered “Dam’ the Gyppos,”
shifted his feet on to Trooper Murchison’s
face, and a delicious, restful quietness came
over him; he became oblivious to everything.
But only for a moment, it seemed. Sud-
denly a fearful blood-curdling cry broke out
from the darkness. There, was a rushing
of many feet. Another ear-splitting, un-
earthly cry rang out through the still night
air, repeated by a score of other hideous
noises. Some were deep-throated roars,
others were high-pitched and ended in long-
drawn-out wails.
The terrible sounds fell on the sergeant’s
ears like the cries of all the lost souls of
Egypt entering the gates of Hell. With the
echoes still ringing in his ears, his mind a
little fuddled, he sprang to his feet and
gazed out into the night.
Through the open doorway he caught the
sounds of rushing feet coming straight in
his direction. Dimly he discerned dozens of
blurred figures. In a flash his mind took
in the situation. A surprise night attack.
By the entire rebel army, intent on mur-
dering the garrison. Quickly he acted, as
his brain became clearer.
“Stand to!” he yelled. “The Gyppos!
Thousands of ’em ! Fire ! Rapid fire, and
aim low!” Grabbing several bombs he
aimed them at the approaching mob.
Bang! Bang! Bang!
“Allah ! Allah ! Allah ! Allah !” sounded
throughout the air in between the bomb
explosions.
“Allah be damned, you cows. Come on,
you throat-slitting sons of dogs! We’ll give
you Allah !”
Assisted by a wide-awake squadron, bomb
after bomb was thrown. Already several
forms lay still and motionless, which bore
eloquent testimony to the effect of the ser-
geant’s bombing ability.
Trooper Murchison, fully alive to the pos-
sibility of being brutally murdered by fana-
tical cut-throats, had grabbed the machine-
gun and swept the approaches with deadly
effect. More figures dropped and lay squirm-
ing on the ground in death’s agony.
“Give the beggars hell! Black swine!”
roared the sergeant, consumed with fury at
the thought of how the entire squadron
might have been butchered in cold blood.
Bomb after bomb exploded and rent tin l
air with terrific detonations. The machine-
gun continued to rap out its message of
death. Other troopers, with their rifles,
aimed at the dim grotesque figures, rushing
wildly about with vividly gleaming eyes, now
in nameless confusion.
“Allah! Allah!” again echoed. This time
faintly away in the distance. Some more
obscure forms dropped like stones before
the concentrated fire of the garrison. Soon
there was not a figure in sight.
.Cease ® re •” ordered the sergeant.
Listen to the devils running. We’ve beaten
’em_ off without a casualty,” proudly ex-
claimed the victor.
“Just on time, too. We haven’t a bomb
left, remarked one of the troopers. “Gawd,
though, it was willing while it lasted,” he
added as he wiped beads of perspiration from
off his forehead.
“They won’t come back again to-night,
that s a moral,” observed the sergeant.
Two or three bottles were still intact.
These Steve now proceeded to open “Let’s
drink to the victory of El Barrazhe,” he ex-
claimed. This was carried out, after which
silence again settled over the room. It was
nearly dawn ; one by one they dozed off.
Morning broke with the air thick with
the smell of stale beer, powder fumes, sleep-
ing men and buzzing flies. Sergeant Swan-
son stirred, opened his eyes, thought of the
beaten-off attack, stood up, stretched his
massive limbs, stepped over the still Slumber-
ing body of Trooper Murchison, went to the
doorway. Here he gazed upon a scene un-
paralleled during the whole of his war
career.
“Stiffen the blanky crows!” he eiaculated
in sheer amazement. In utter bewilderment
he contracted his eyebrows. “What do you
know about that! Hey, Jim! Just get an
eyeful of ’em!”
Jim stirred, turned over on his side, and
an astonished exclamation broke from his
lips as he regarded the view of death and
destruction.
The potion of eternity had been liberally
applied. It had been a bountiful harvest.
Several bodies, riddled through and through
with machine-gun bullets, lay on their backs
forty or fifty yards away. But deadlier
had been the toll of the bombs. Everywhere
lay decapitated heads, with staring glassy
eyes, entrails ; bare, hairy legs ; black ears :
brown ears, even flowing silky beards—of
Abdul Ibn Mohammed’s goats!
And Abdul himself, they say, is still run-
ning, now headed for the Sahara.
The Bay.
A thousand thousand white caps deck the
blue
Long fields of water, tossing into spray,
Ijikc wind-whipped daisies nodding all askew
Across the sunlit bay.
All, all so fresh this morning, brown and
green,
Far off the shadowy sleeping hillsides lie -
A cool wind tumbles up the channel, clean
Beneath a mackerel sky.
I watch the smoke of steamers plougliina
north,
I watch the wake of steamers plunging
south,
The umber sails of fishing-boats blown forth
I rom the blue harbor-mouth.
All day, all day, the smoke-wreath and the
sail,
The tall, infrequent spars, the salt winds
free;
All night, all night the beacons wink and fail
And lights far out at sea
Go down the dark sea-miles, but never more
The morn brings back, or evening’s after-
glow,
The gallant ships I launched ten, twenty or
A thousand years ago.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


i
mf
Wm : !
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 4 1 4.
Tke Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.
3" ee " s 2 —HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
>.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington. w~.i«vnv n
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne
South Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
PROVED!
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Offices 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“THE AGE”
Established 185ft*
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise you do not consider the
money involved as a speculation. You treat
this expenditure as an investment and expect
a reasonable return on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
‘The Age” has exerted an influence in the
affairs and development of Victoria. Its
present powerful position has been gained by
its literary worth, which appeals to an intelli-
gent public, and by its accurate and complete
news service. These factors, having a direct
bearing on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser looking
for the best INVESTMENT for his advertising
expenditure.
“THE AGE"
Audited Net Daily Circulation,
123,533.
Hates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
all newsagents.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
3fis Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
€lk Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements .
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER» may be
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price lj d.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
THE
Illustrated Tasmanian
Mail
Published Wednesday. Price 6d.
A Bright, Interesting Weekly, con-
ducted on the most up-to-date lines,
and illustrated throughout.
It is an established favorite with
townsfolk and country folk also in
all parts of Tasmania, and its
effectiveness as an advertising
medium is receiving ever-increasing
recognition.
It is undoubtedly
TASMANIA’S LEADING
WEEKLY
A Rate Rook, giving full particulars
of the Advertising Rates charged, will
he forwarded on application.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.
PUBLISHERS, **
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart
Sydney Office:
P. L. Wilson, Representative, Liso-ar rr„,
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard” Square Se ’
BW 5179. q are *
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth
If any illustration in '‘The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Kif
71
r »
#7/
tell of
HEALTH
EYES tell of character and
personality. Eyes tell at
health also. If the whites
have lost their
are dull and lack lustre, you may
be sure your health as well as your
beauty are being impaired by poisons
spreading through your system —the
result of Constipation. Headaches,
biliousness and tiredness, are other
manifestations of constipation. The
safest, surest way to conquer constipa-
tion is to take Beecham’s Pills. Their
corrective action has made them the
world’s approved regulative medicine
Get a box to day.
BEECHAMS
PILLS
WORTH A
GUINEA A
BOX
“The Examiner”
Tasmania's Oldest Daily Newspaper. Established 1842.
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
ijest Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s Best
Illustrated Weekly is the
“Weekly Courier”
Published
Every
Wednesday
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper.
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6,3, months from
for which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
6 months, 15/-; 3 months, 8/-
eŕeýty6uyuiouio
\S
O
e
O 06V
%
<s


t
*V‘
v
"Li 2
u
i
r
r<y\
ML
5k
m
In
wr'
Goodwill the strongest Guarantee
6D298
Public goodwill is the most tangible
and jealously-guarded asset in every business
because it can be acquired only by deserving
it- —it is never accidental nor unearned. For
fifteen years Dodge Brothers have enjoyed
an overflowing measure of goodwill. And
because their present product combines all of
the traditional Dodge qualities with a perform-
ance, comfort and style that are ahead of the
>
times, this goodwill is deeper rooted to-day
than ever before. It is your assurance that
the enthusiasm of Dodge owners is well
founded. And that means even more to you
than any written guarantee. )
DODGE BROTHERS SIX
HI CHRYSLER MOTORS PRODUCT
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS■
New South Wales Harden & Johnston, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria . Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland .... Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane and Townsville
South Australia .... Waymouth Motor Company, Ltd., Adelaide
Western Australia .... Winterbottom Motor Company, Ltd., Perth
Tasmania Co-operative Motors, Ltd., Hobart
