

JVi vcr ftlind (Mowfr 2hevcf<r*e : Cfou 'Uk
Q
&
r.
r
tm.
&
■
na»
m
O cC
S?S
Pf®
F U °P
fri^
■:2
'¥m
wm.
Born 1820 -
Still going Strong
JOHNNIE WALKER.
FELLOW OF THE SOCIETY OF ANTIQUARIES
Johnnie Walker is intimately associated
with things ancient and venerable.
For over a century he has been
contributing to the history of man’s
enjoyment. His aged and mellow
spirit continues to cast its beneficent
influence over the whole world and
thousands of enthusiastic connoisseurs
have acclaimed him as a “find”.
,« flOPPf*’/
* 4 ,, COR^*
lit
v
'
Johnnie Walker has friends every-
where—all over the world men of
the world praise this fine old
Scotch—its mellow maturity, its
flavour and purity. And now there
is also the new stopper—a twist of
the fingers and it’s drawn.
fdhfd
WHISKY
JOHN WALKER » SONS LTD., SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, LONDON and KILMARNOCK.
\•. ■: ' .V'' S ' • ■ if: ! ~ ••
The Bulletin
Vol. 51.—N0. 2631.
Wednesday, July 16, 1930.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia/for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE New Library Catalogue for 1930 is
now ready, and will be forwarded with
full terms and particulars, post free on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Trudge the thorny trail to Zion,
To unseal “Fortuna's Box,”
With the courago of the lion
And the cunning of the fox.
Face the foes who shall assail you,
Let no cold for long endure ;
One true friend will never fail you-
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
I
* This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTTS Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
you.r Muscular Movement System of Writing as
advertised in. the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name „ #
My A ddress
S.B. 314
UYSAGHT
m
o
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght's Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
£ fr" ' K'
** m7tjcr, .. \
% '
11
L m
it*
THE PICNIC
Ho£t Holbrook Says:
“Those chops grill-
ed in the open air
over a bush fire!
Nothing more appetis-
ing when served with
my Worcestershire
Sauce.”
fdjhfgd
1
s
ZhuMi
w/jym&m
TMM Mtm,
(7\
PQILQW
vy
HADE IN U.S.A.
iu»«|CATES. NUWO * tio
prevent* hurt.
*■ SEPKNOASUC O*»«WUU. IfttUW** '
,0 * USE WHERE A USMT
®P HI OH QUALITY t« requires, w®
Oil. WHO. HOT SUM. SECOMS •*•**•”
OR DRV OtIT. IT Flows fKtMUt ** >o
* *AS*LV APPLIED.
CONTENTS 5 FLUID OUNCES
Winchester Repeating Anns Ca
New Haven .CompUSA
will find a hundred uses for
WflVCff£ST£R
YAAOC MARK
GENERAL
UTILITY OIL
KEEP a can at hand to ail your sewing machine, phonograph,
vacuum cleaner, washing machine, locks and door hinges.
Polish pianos, radio cabinets and other woodwork with it. Keep all
metal parts and objects bright and free from rust. A drop or two
of this fine oil works wonders in countless different places around
the home, the office and the farm. Buy a can today and banish rust,
squeaks and friction.
If you are a sportsman—ask also for'Winchester Metal Prepara-
tions for your gun —Gun Oil, Gun Grease, Rust Remover and
Crystal Cleaner. They will help you keep your shotgun, fide,
revolver or pistol in prime condition.
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN, CONN., U. $. A.
ivrNCHesrm
Jr
TRADE MARK
WINCHESTER
WESTCHESTER
CBYST
CLEANER
rjWTfi-STeH.
f
uyrßifflffl
aUIU/JJW
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN’*
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
The Red Page
A Play Set in Heaven
The Green Pastures, by Marc Connelly
(Gollancz: Dymocks), lias the virtue,
among others, of not being a war book,
fo blazes with war books! The narrowest
in range of theme, the most restricted in
setting, the most barren in imagery, the
most common in language, the most
humorless, flat and futile outcrop of wordi-
ness that ever kept a great band of good
writers from literary creation. What is
the sum of them? At the most and best,
reports of a thing so horrible and filthy
that the very words seem to fester in
attempting to describe it. The bookshops
are so swamped with them that whole dis-
play tables hold nothing else. And still
they come—grisly variations upon a theme
by those pretty composers Snivel and
Entrails.
The tragedy of it is that among the host
of hired apes there may be potential Marc
Connellys; writers gifted with power of
pure creation; men and women capable of
adding to the glories of this earth. How
tragic that thought is should be realised
after a reading of The Green Pastures. The
war or this money-grubbing book war—
might easily have roped in a writer so
gifted, and, instead of this grand comedy,
the world might have had another mess of
sadism. The Green Pastures is a play skil-
fully constructed to represent the southern
United States negro idea of Heaven. It is
in two parts, the first of ten scenes, the
second of eight. “With terrific spiritual
hunger and the greatest humility,” says the
author, “these untutored black Christians—
many of whom cannot even read the book
which is the treasure house of their faith
have adapted the contents of the Bible to
the consistencies of their everyday lives ”
They have accepted the Old Testament as
a “chronicle of wonders which happened to
people like themselves in vague but actual
places.
The play opens with a brief scene in
a corner of a negro church, where the black
preacher all but illiterate himself—is read-
ing and fantastically explaining to a bunch
of eager little coons. The lights begin to
dim with the preacher reading: “In de
beginnin’ God created de Heaven an’ de
earth. An’ de earth was widout form an'
void. An’ de darkness was upon de face
of de deep.” There is darkness, and many
voices are heard singing “Rise, Shine, Give
God the Glory.” (Spirituels, so beautiful
m themselves, are sung at frequent intervals
and m most scenes.) The lights go up.
and the scene—a pre-Creation Heaven, with
clouds and a big oak-tree—is occupied by
a mixed company of “angels,” who wear
brightly colored robes, with wings protrud-
ing from the back, but otherwise “look and
act like a company of happy negroes at a
fish fry.’ The first words spoken in Heaven
are:—
* lr “ t i ,C°°k (calling off): “Hurry up, Cajey Dis
yere fat’s eryin’ fo’ mo’ feesh.”
A Voice (off stage): “We cornin’, fas’ we kin.
Dey got to be ketched, ain’t dey ? We caiij’t say.
Onion, little fish. C’m’on, an’ git fried,’ kin we?”
There is some squabbling over what is the
best sort of bait; presently Gabriel enters,
lifts his hand and cries, “Gangway! Gang-
way for de Lawd God Jehovah!”
The*; j s a reV ererit hush and God enters. He is
the tallest and biggest of them all. He wears a
white shirt with a white bow-tie, a long Prince
Albert coat of black alpaca, black trousers and con-
gress gaiters. He looks at the assemblage. There
is a pause. He speaks in a rich, bass voice.
His question “Is you been baptised?” and
the chanting answer, “Certainly, Lawd;”
develops with repetition into the negro
song, ending:—
Do you bow mighty low?
Certainly, Lawd.
Do you bow mighty low?
Certainly, Lawd. Certainly, certainly, certainly.
Lawd.
As the song ends all heads are bowed.
God looks at them for a moment, then lifts
his hand.
God: “Let de fish fry proceed.”
It proceeds after this fashion:—
First Mammy Angel: “Now, you leave go de
Lawd’s coat, Herman. You heah me?”
God: Dat’s all right, sister. He jest plavin’.”
First Mammy Angel; “H e playin’ too rough.”
(Ood picks up the cherub and spanks him good-
naturedly. The cherub squeals with delight and
runs to his mother. Gabriel advances to God with a
glass of custard.)
Gabriel; “Little b’iled custud, Lawd ?”
God: “Thank you very kindly. Dis looks nice.”
Custard Maker (offering a box) ; “Ten cent
Lawd ?” ° ’
God (taking it) : “Thank you, thank you. How de
fish fry goin’?”
Unfortunately, the custud is not to God’s
liking; firmament is the missing ingredient,
and God, “sick an’ tired of runnin’ out of
it when we need it,” creates a whole
“mess of firmament.” This necessitates
another miracle to create somewhere where-
on to drain the “firmament”; and so,
the earth! It is unfortunate, because,’
following the simplest conceivable idea
of the Old Testament incidents, the
playwright makes God create man, and
go ( through worry after worry on
man s behalf—trying to better His handi-
work with the Flood, the destruction of
Babylon, the experiment of Canaan; until
at last God Himself is taught in these ex-
periences the A’irtue of Mercy, and the play
ends with an effective off-stage suggestion
of the Crucifixion. It is grand comedy,
because throughout runs an undertone of
softer, beautilul feeling. Bigots may
regard it as blasphemous, but it has a
spiritual love 1 mess no t always encountered
within the Avails of a church, a simplicity
too fresh and fine to be merely funny.
Old Moses on the border of Canaan, being
helped to his feet and assisted by God
wearily up the hill, is a momentary reveal-
ing of a pathos that is always there, though
veiled. It is not absent Avhen God, in
Noah’s sitting-room, offers His host a ten-
cent seegar, nor when a scene opens with
aspiring magicians (shortly to be joined by
Moses and Aaron) doing card tricks for
the benefit of ol’ King Pharaoh, nor even
when Zeba calls God “Banjo Eyes.”
Yet, though it is a thing of truth and
beauty and reverence—or should I say
because it is?—l expect that some ass will
censor it.
CECIL MANN.
Kendalliana—IV
On the Mudgee selection, Louisa Lawson,
herself a poet and an ardent lover of Aus-
tralian poetry, was passionately enthralled
by Kendall’s work and life. She read and
expounded Kendall’s poetry to her- son
Henry, and kept an eager eye on Kendall’s
career. Just as Harry Kendall had trained
himself as Native Australian Poet, successor
to Harpur, so Harry Lawson was trained
to succeed KendalJ.
When Ivendall died, and the “Town and
Country Journal” with the news reached
our selection, “and little Gertie took the
paper from the mailman and brought it
to Harry,” and Harry walked in to his
mother with “Kendall’s dead!” no more
work was done that Louisa took time
off to meditate the news. Then and there
she made up her mind to take the family
to Sydney and start life in poetical earnest.
She had no money, and no helpful
friends; and it took her two years to get
to the big city. When she had found lodg-
ings, and settled her brood temporarily,
the next thing she did was to walk out to
Waverley cemetery and worship at Ken-
dall s grave. She found a neglected weed-
grown plot, with a small wooden cross
upon which hung a sagging wreath; and
all her soul was aflame with indignation.
She went to the “Town and Country”—
an influential paper in 1884—with a letter
of complaint and remonstrance. The editor
took fire from her flame, and sent out a
designer who made a sketch of the
neglected grave. This was engraved and
printed, with Louisa’s appeal. It made
some stir; and Louisa went around raising
funds for a monument. Dr. Badham, of
the University, delivered a lecture for her;
Gerald Massey, a visiting English poet,
delivered another. Progress was slow; the
£l2OO subscription had exhausted public
interest in Kendall. Louisa kept on preach-
ing and collecting with tireless enthusiasm.
Gradually the “heads” took interest; and
W. B. Dailey was captured. A substantial
committee was formed; the monument was
ordered; and in 1886 it was erected and
unveiled with public ceremony by Governor
Carrington.
Louisa Lawson wasn’t invited to the
ceremony; unfortunately the committee
had forgotten her.
The committee met to decide the inscrip-
tion on the monument, and chose, after
debate, the closing lines of Shelley’s lament-
ing poem for Keats:—
, Surely he takes his fill
Of deep and liquid rest, forgetful of all ill.
Kendall’s convivial habits were still
strongly remembered by the public mind,
and Dailey suggested a doubt that the
reference to “liquid rest” was perhaps a
little too appropriate. Since Shelley uses
the word in the classical sense of clear,
pellucid, the objection was over-ruled.
Kendall was not generally regarded
highly at the time of his death. Fifteen
vehicles followed his hearse to the grave.
Victor Daley and Richmond Thatcher,
another Bohemian of the epoch, walked to
Waverley, taking a stimulating drink at.
several public-houses on the road. At the
second or third house the beer was particu-
larly good, and Thatcher paused and held
up his pewter to Daley: “Ah. Victor, if poor
Harry were here now! How he would
enjoy a drop of this!”
At the grave Daley met P. J. Holds-
worth, a rarely remembered poet, one of
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—when Anthony Horderns’ say it and mean it.
Anthony Horderns'
&
mm
wm
mm
m
ill
mm
(THE SENIOR STORE)
0
&
$
i
n A TF
L/im. I jm.j
July 17 to August 16
Overcoats Showßig Savings
39/6 Double Breasted, 34/6
Men’s fashionable double-breasted Overcoats, made from All-
Wool Coating. In smart shades of Grey. Well cut and finished.
Price, 39/6.
SALE PRICE . ; 34/6
63/- Double Breasted, 55/-
These are smart form-fitting Coats with half-belt—made from
All-Wool Coating in fast Navy Blue. Very serviceable Coats—
well-cut and finished with good linings. Price, 63/-
SALE PRICE . . . 55/-
£5/15/- Gabardine Overcoat, 79/6
English-made Gabardine Overcoats for men. In smart shades
of Fawn. Lined throughout with wool lining. Sizes 3, 4 and
5 only. Price, £5/15/-
SALE PRICE 79/6
(All Men’s Wear—Ground Floor, George Street.)
We Pay Carriage.
iss>
%
%
en
cLfor tkif/
It is a book that can save you a
great deal of money . From cover
to cover it is full of genuine savings
on every personal and household
need. Send us a card and it will
reach you post free per return mail.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
'Phone: M2lfil
Day and Night.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


e jr/n
r\\VQ
%
1
sw
V'
£
jans
PATON
ARE THESE
car features
TOYOU ?
/CONSIDER the many high quality car fea-
tures included in the low-priced Whippet's
mechanical design.
For instance: (1) Silent Adjustable Timing
Chain. (2) Exceptionally heavy Crankshaft
of sturdy construction. Full forced feed lubri-
cation. Small capacity, high compression engine,
developing 2\ times its rated horsepower. (3)
Roomy interiors, seating five passengers com-
fortably. Oversize balloon tyres; long springs;
two-way shock absorbers; Finger-Tip Control.
Such features as these are not customarily in-
corporated in the design of a low-priced car. In
fact, the Whippet is unique in offering them.
The use of these features, as in the expensive car,
results in long, useful engine life, greater
economy, speed, splendid hill-climbing ability,
and comfort.
Get behind the wheel of a Whippet. Test this low-priced
car out yourself. There is a dealer in your district who
will gladly arrange for a complete demonstration. Get
in touch with him to-day and ask him to prove the
advantage of the Whippet’s mechanical features.
1930
wv Iff I
FOUR
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LTD
68-70 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
OVERLAND VICTORIA PTY., LTD.,
117-121 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LTD.,
148-150 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
E. G. EAGER & SON, LTD.,
Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, Brisbane.
ADAMS MOTORS, LIMITED,
442 Murray Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
53-63 Bathurst Street, Hobart.


Real
Comfort
Wear
for Men!
83
A
COU&TA
LDS
m
i
n
r
44
REO2
SHIRTS
FYIAMAS & SOFT COLLARS
VOUR liking for a lustrous, tastefully
* coloured fabric for Shirts, Pyjamas and
Soft Collars is fully met in “ LUVISCA.”
You will admire these cosy garments for
their splendid style and constancy in wear
Sold "by Leading Stores.
Look
for the
Registered
Tab.
V
coORI
If any difficulty in obtaining,
please write
THOROLD, HARPER & CO.
PTY., LTD.,
SOB Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE ;
181 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Kendall’s most faithful and most helpful
friends. “Ah, Victor,” said Holdswortli,
with tears in his eyes, “Harpur’s gone!
Deniehy’s gone! Kendall’s gone! There
are only you and I now.”
Kendall had a similar idea when writing
his memorial ode:—
To Adam Lindsay Gordon, I who laid
Two years ago on Lionel Michael’s grave
A tender leaf of my regard; yea, I
Who culled a garland from the flowers of song
To place where Harpur sleeps; I, left alone,
The sad disciple of a shining; band....
But Holdsworth wasn’t regarded as pre-
cisely in the first line of poetical writers;
though David Christie Murray, an English
writer of some note at that day, wrote a
survey of Australian poetry in which he
gave one of Holdworth’s poems first place
among all.
Louisa Lawson searched earnestly for
Kendalliana. She found an old employee
of Biddell Brothers, the Sydney confec-
tioners, for whom Kendall worked as
errand-boy when he came back to Sydney
from sea, a lad of 18. This man told her
that Kendall used to be sent out with a
tray of tarts and cakes, which he learned
to carry, on his head, through the streets
of Sydney. Already he was composing
juvenile poetry, and, as he walked along,
with half-seeing eyes fixed in a vacant stare,
you could see his mouth working as he
mumbled over his lines. People would turn
and look at him:
“There goes Mad Harry!”
A.G.S.
“Redheap” Again
Bon J. Blunden (R.P. 25/6/’3O) complains
that in my criticism of Norman Lindsay’s
over-discussed novel I dealt exclusively
with the sex side of it; whereas I imagined
that I had dismissed that in a few fitting
words and had concentrated on the gram-
mar and the literary style. If Mr. Lindsay
had done the same when writing his book
I feel that the result would have been
better. Mr. Blunden also infers that my
adverse opinion of “Redheap” was due to
my “moral sense” having been outraged.
I had fully expected this retort from one
or other of Mr. Lindsay’s disciples. It is
the retort invariably made when any criti-
cism is ventured on artistic grounds about
anything that Mr. Lindsay does—such as
saying that one of his nudes is out of draw-
ing. I can assure Mr. Blunden that Mr.
Lindsay is quite incapable of shocking my
moral sense, for the excellent reason that
I haven’t got one where matters of art are
concerned. My sole objection to Mr.
Lindsay’s art, as exemplified in his latest
book, is that it is bad art, not that it is
bad morality.
It is Mr. Blunden who is obsessed with
moral considerations when he speaks of the
book as dealing “beautifully with some of
the sweetest aspects of youth,” when what
it actually does is to deal dully, heavily,
schoolboyishly and self-consciously with
sundry dogmas which Mr. Lindsay holds
about youth and which he has already
written about ad lib. My objection to
the characters in “Redheap” is not that
they are too like life but that they are not
half alive enough. It is their half-alive-
ness which first excites and then disappoints
me. Mr. Lindsay is up to a -.certain point
a very keen observer, but j List as he is
about to get his vision down on paper his
inverted Puritanism gets'the better of him
and he ceases to be the artist and turns
preacher instead.
I dealt with Mr. Lindsay’s grammar
because literary expression is the medium
of “Redheap” and grammar is necessary for
literary expression. I did not maliciously
tear examples of Mr. Lindsay’s amusing
syntax from their context, but selected sen-
tences that began with capitals and ended
with fullstops. They should therefore be
grammatically self-contained.
By scowling 1 also about the room it was con-
victed of incompetence to supply a continuum in
diversion to bridge that gap of boredom
was one of my samples. If Mr. Blunden
can analyse that successfully the rules have
changed since I was at school—and, I fear,
for the worse.
It is slightly irrelevant for Mr. Blunden
to drag Shakspeare into the discussion.
Shakspeare wrote his plays before Freud,
Krafft-Ebbing and the rest, whereas Mr.
Lindsay wrote after them. It is unreason-
able to suppose that Shakspeare read Freud
before he created Hamlet, but I had a
very strong feeling after reading “Redheap”
that Mr. Lindsay had studied him before
creating the Piper family.
F.S.
The Odyssey of a Baby Car
We and the Baby, by Hector MacQuarrie
(Angus and Robertson), is a good travellers’
book and good travellers’ books are rare.
The people who do things are seldom able
to write about them, whether they be pugi-
lists, prima donnas or peripatetics. So they
are compelled to have their doings
“ghosted,” as the trade term goes. Travel-
lers as far apart as Marco Polo and
Shackle ton employed journalistic ghosts,
and the results have not always been
happy. MacQuarrie tells his own tale, and
he is an admirable narrator.. He does not
make the usual mistake of travellers of
writing about more than he can see with
his own eyes.
MacQuarrie and another young Maori-
lander decided to see a bit more of the
world, and the portion they selected was
the strip of coast running from Brisbane to
the extreme northern tip of the Australian
continent at Cape York. To make this
mad choice seem a little more insane they
declared in Sydney motoring circles that
they intended to do it in a motor-car, no
motor-car ever having done the last few
hundred miles of the journey before. No-
body having faith in them, they purchased
an Austin Baby with almost the last coin
they had, hoping to recoup themselves by
handing the vehicle over in good order and
condition to a “prospect” at Thursday
Island.
Their narrative is largely of their own
physical endurance and the mechanical
reliability of their chariot. They travelled
up from Cairns, through Mareeba; over the
untracked Byerstown Range, into Cook-
town (the first landward car to reach it),
through towns where the residents refused
to believe that they hadn’t come from the
opposite direction, thence through the
Laura to Port Stewart over a multitude of
dry and running rivers, thence across the
Mcllwraith Range, over “the terrible
Archer” to Mein telegraph station; and
thence largely through untravelled bush,
following the route of the telegraph line
to Cape York. In the turkey-brush or
puncture plain country they mended as
many as 25 punctures in a day, and any
motorist knows that wasn’t the least of
their troubles.
But apart from the account of a remark-
ably enterprising feat, the book has con-
siderable value for its picture of life in
a part of this continent about which the
information is somewhat scrappy. Mac-
Quarrie is a keen observer. No doubt he
subjectifies his impressions through a
simple, kindly nature, but it is refreshing
to find the people of the North thus
depicted for a change, rather than in the
distorting mirrors of writers with bad livers
or defective kidneys. A string of cheerful
portraits runs through We and the Baby—
of the Flying Missionary, who had to make
his own roads but kept his car as spick and
span as if he used it only for first-nights in
Sydney; of the Robertses of Curraghmore,
placidly sitting in their bungalow telling
of the last cyclone, when their home was up
to the eaves in raging flood waters; of the
unquenchable domesticity of Mrs. Bell and
a dozen other housewives with a hundred
miles between them; of that romantic
enterprise the overland telegraph, with its
operator, linesman and laborer stationed
every 70 miles along its length, whose sur-
roundings during the “wet” are a vast and
dangerous quagmire, and during the “dry”
a waterless desert, and whose only recrea-
tion is laying bets over the wire with city-
bookmakers.
It is gratifying to know that they suc-
ceeded in getting their vehicle to Cape
York, vastly surprising Mr. and Mrs. Gunn,
of the post office, and Mr. and Mrs. Carey,
of the telegraph station, and that they also
succeeded in satisfying the Thursday Island
“prospect.”
A Satchel of Books
The Green Bicycle Case, by H'. R. Wake-
field (Philip Allan), Another murder trial
from life dished up to tickle the popular
taste and leave crime fiction no advantages
in thrill or puzzlement. Very good of the
kind.
•The Life of George Meredith, by Robert
Esmonde Sencourt (Chapman and Hall).
The writer has a healthy belief in his sub-
ject and faith in that subject’s future; If the
faith be justified, it will be this book that
will inspire the customary deluge. In any
case, it is a sound and readable contribution
to literary biography, sympathetic, lauda-
tory, but not gushful.
Fly and Minnow, by W. F. R. Reynolds
(Country Life). Fishing is the same sport
in all parts of the world, with differences.
This author writes of problems of salmon
and trout fishing in Britain, and it is be-
cause he tries to help his reader to adapt
himself to differences that his book may be
profitably read by the angler of Australia
or Maoriland. His main line of attack is
that anglers have brains the same as other
people, and should use them in their sport.
The Trial of Alexander Campbell Mason
(Bles) brings the “famous trials” series,
edited by George Dilnot, up towards the
score. The case is the rather cheerless one
of the cold-blooded shooting of a taxi-driver,
Dickie, in London, 1923. There is dramatic
twist in the fact that Vivian, a criminal who
gave evidence for the Crown, was at the
same time accused of the crime by the
defence, and further interest for the reader
in deciding for himself whether or not the
accused Mason was guilty. A well-prepared
feast for the crime-taster, amateur or other-
wise.
Short Studies in Shakspeare, by G. F.
Bradby (Murray). Astonishingly, these are
what they purport to be. They are short,
“studies” describes them, and they are in
Shakspeare—the work, not the over-discussed
and all but quite unknown man. The writer
approaches his Shakspeare critically; has,
for instance, no blind admiration for the
sonnets or “Venus and Adonis,” and attempts
to see the characters of the plays in their
original setting, not as the fabulous creatures
sentimentalism has made some of them. He
succeeds because he draws the reader closer
to Shakspeare. His little book is an easy
gate, not a palisade.
In The Dead Mouse, by Austen Allen
(Geoffrey Bles). Sabina Gibson and her
detective friend Ord reappear. It is the only
disappointing feature of a first-class murder
yarn. Sabina, with her snobbish habit of
talking down to the contemptibly civil Ord
and her ghastly determination to be funny-
in and out of season, should have been killed
off long ago. The murder occurs in the
Turkish Bath of a London suburb that reads
like Golders Green, and Mr. Alien gets
plenty of scope to draw the middle-class
Londoners he knows so well. An absorbing
book apart from its thrills, and in spite of
the egregious Sabina.
Answers to Correspondents.
Ao notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
James E. B.: Rather on the commonplace
side. There are boys’ papers that would love it.
. ...N.W.: “Homecoming,” though it has merits,
reads like worked-up pathos L.T.F.: You lose
yourself too often. Aim at simplicity. Nothing is
half so effective... .Franklin: Promising, but suffers
from over-emphasis H.J.S.: Thanks, but too late.
S.H.: Unable to use any of them J.C.: Out
of our paddock Pasha Pat: From 2000 words
upward. Verse no g00d... .C. 1.: Bad enough calling
the moon a torch without rhyming it with “watch.”
....A.M.C.: Gates have been better handled....
J.H.: “Hang it,” “dam it,” blast it”—Mr. Forde
will be on your track if you don’t look out
Sylvester: Wouldn’t call ’em those names; won’t
do, anyway.... Ground F.: Regret cannot detect
improvement... .H. 8.: Near. Have a go at some-
thing else Gillesp.: Afraid it’s in their blood
and nothing will shift it B.B.: Too easy—after
8e110c... .A.C.W.: “Wayfarers” wander rather aim-
lessly M.N.: Young, and the themes are n0t....
A.E.A.: The second line has to be repeated at the
end, and with a fresh shade of meaning.... D.W.:
“Two Loaves” is the best, though a bit artificial.
Try “S. M. Herald”... .Spero: A trifle chaotic;
may do better later N.F.: “The Blackbird” has
joined the raven S.J.L. (Eng.): Might have
won a hearing two months ago... .1.A.H.: No more
space for that just now M.H.: Tried hard, but
could not squeeze them in... .R.H.W.: Would heed
a good deal of tightening R.E.L.: Missed not only
the target, but the hill it stands on S.S.: “Love
and Sorrow.” The title is almost enough.... Keg:
If that’s a poem, it’s the first ever written....
G.G.P.: It’s all right about those snakes you see,
but where do you get the stuff strong enough these
days ? E.D.: Fair, but miles off the track....
The Duffer: Ha, laddie, you bring back mem-ories:
Oh, take me back to “Trilby” when Regina Nagel
sang “Ben Bolt.”
I’d like to see again that horse that was ridden bv
Bland Holt.
Alf Dampier with “No Mercy” and “Never Too Late
to Mend,”
Rignold’s “Youth” and “Romany Rye” always
showed a dividend.
How, effective that last line is! J.G.: Can’t
locate the “Peak Hill Lassies.” Who, or what, were
they ?... .E.C.: Ssli! Don might hear you and
not break any more records... .E.E.: Even the
official thought-reader gave up “Viewing, low, your
tuition, confuse” P.T.: Good deal of sentiment
already poured over the thing, and stacks of senti-
mentality. .. .H.Y.: You don’t seem to know any
of the rules.... F.W.W.: Has points, but then, so
has a porcupine, and you’d hardly call him. a
poem.... John S.: Idea for a fine moving verse,
but you fail.... Rosemary: Heading sqme of them
for our children’s page and garden page proves that
you are impracticable enough almost to be a poet.
.... Syncratic: “Whose Who ?” Which ?... . Bellerive:
Zoological Inspiration (Continued) :
THE STORK.
Upon wriggling worms
Grim havi.c twill wreak.
Quick is their fate-
When grasped by its beak.
Though mournful in visage
And quaint in walk
Fond of a frolic
Is the wiry stork.
(Next week: “The Jumping Spider.”)
. ...C.J.W.: Thanks; enjoyed it... .R.L.J.: If only
it had lived up to its beautiful title!... . M.C.L.:
Well, that ought to be among the last hundred of.
the Amy Johnson poems. .. .E.W.F.: C105e....
A.R.M.M.: (1) Melba’s maiden name was
Nellie Mitchell. She married C. N. Armstrong in
1882. (2) Elsa Stralia was born at Adelaide and
was the daughter of Hugo Fischer. (3) Florence
Austral was born at Richmond (Vic.) ; she married
John Amadio in 1925... .C.M.: The etcher was
Lionel Lindsay, Burns-road, Wahroonga, Sydney....
C.8.K.: See article “Marketing the Novel” in Gerald
Dillon’s “Why Editors Regret” (2s. 6d.), also
“The Aus. and N.Z. Writers and Artists’ Year Book”
(2s. 6d.).. . .K.M.T.: Italians admitted to Aus-
tralia numbered 4540 in 1924 ; 6102 in 1925;
3952 in 1926 ; 7884 in 1927 ; and 3163 in 1928.
Greeks: 2028 in 1924 ; 645 in 1925; 683 in 1926;
1593 in 1927 ; 854 in 1928 H.F.: “Sapper” is
Major Cyril Mac Neile; Army and Navy Club, Pall
Mall, London. .. .G.A.: (1) Matter of opinion, but
the following rank high: James Agate (“Sunday
Times”), Hannen Swaffer (“Sunday Express”) and
Ivor Brown (“Observer”). (2) Beverley Nichols
has published “Prelude,” “Patchwork,” “Self,”
“Twenty-five,” “Crazy Pavements,” “Are They the
Same at Home?” and “Star-Spangled Manner.”
. ...H.H.W.: Dismiss claim by plumber to be the
noblest work of creation... .G.T.: May find a place
elsewhere... .C.H.V.S.: Needs reconstruction and
condensation... .J.S.: Rain, sunshine, mist and birds
don’t alone make a story... .G.R.D.: Stale P.K.:
As facts bad, as fiction worse... .P.0.M.C.: “Tup-
pence” not worth a sou... .H.W.C.S.: Brevity is its
one merit... .C.D.: Fails to interest... .W.P.: Don’t
agree that stories are “written in an improved
Leacockian style” G.S.C.: Subject not suitable.
. ...W.M.: Fails to tip the scale... .S.C.C.: An old
tale ill t01d.... A.C.W.: “Hope” dashed. Also
blasted... .C.C.M.8.: “Into the Depths” it was.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
V.K.: Next time you treat a camel like that you
will be reported to the R.S.P.C.A W.8.A.: One
look was enough.... G.R.: You depict Jacky as if
he were an officer in the Mexican army... .8.5.:
Lamentable... .U.S.: Send another after six months’
study... .8.T.: Joke used long ago, and it was
accompanied by an immeasurably better drawing.
. ...C.J.; Crude... .P.K.: Can’t tell until he sends
something he hasn’t copied... .G.D.D.: Couple left
watching sunset... .E.L.: Want something more than
interior decorations.... H.W.: Second-hand gag and
sketch that should never have left drawing board.
. ...N.F.; No use for American college humor....
T.J.H.: A collection of freaks throwing verbal mud
at each other... .W.J.Q.: Returning; advise burn-
ing.... 1.E.: So that’s how you spend your Sunday
evenings M. 0.8.: Don’t like your bridge players.
.... S.M.; Subject too big for you; try something
your size... .F.R.: If you do send ’em in by the
hundred, tip the postman... .A. Y.: Nay... .R.H.T.:
A vile pun. .. . A.C.P.: A glimmer of hope in the
shop drawing... .J.H.C.: The wife thinks it’s a
washout? We side with her....F.T.: Want cartoons,
not signboards... .W.L.G.: A distorted bunch....
T.8.J.; Dumped at first sight.


jhfdj
FAMOUS
PORTS
m
m
m
u
m
m
m
m
%
!
-
i 1
; y.,
SH
;'••'• :V
-•: v ; :
*
i
%
§
■
I
■
—■
1
i
■
I
'# +


The Bulletin
Vol. 51. —No. 2631.
July 16, 1930.
WITH THE CANBERRA HOUNDS.
“Despite a slight mishap to one of the huntsmen, the chase is still on.”


The Bulletin
The national Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 21i George Street, Sydney;
Pox 252188 ; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: lVi-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
5 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom ; hoz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional 1/oz., Id. All Sea lloute: lboz., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: J/OZ. or part thereof,
10 V.lseivhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
A PLAY SET IN HEAVEN, by Cecil Mann .. 2
MORE ABOUT KENDALL, by A.G.S 2
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON .. ..7
EDITORIALS .. .. .. .. 8, 9
THE BLOT ON THE BUDGET .. ..8
NEVER MIND THEODORE: WHAT ABOUT
OURSELVES ? 8
TRADE CHANCES IN ASIA 8
NEW TAXES AND OLD BARNACLES .. 8
GOLD AND PAPER 9
THE REBELLION OF WOMEN .. ..9
SYDNEY’S TRAMWAY SYSTEM .. ..9
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 9
POLITICAL POINTS (with cartoonlets by
Frith) .. .. .. .. .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. 11, 12
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 13
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC IS
PERSONAL 14
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..16
ON THE SYDNEY DOMAIN (drawings by
Frith) 10
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 17, 18
THIS WEEK’S INVESTMENT TIP . . ..17
SWALLOW AND ARIELL 17
WALTER REID AND CO 17
N.Z. FARMERS’ FERTILISERS .. ..17
ASSURANCE AND THRIFT 17
MANGROVITE BELTING 17
MARCHANT’S ..IS
INVESTMENT QUESTIONS ANSWERED .. 18
A BORTGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 20, 21
MAN ON THE LAND 22, 25
SCIENCE AND THE DAIRY-FARMER .. 22
OUT-BACK KITCHEN GARDEN .. ..22
A CHAMPION POTATO-GROWER .. ..22
MARKETING ORANGES 22
FARM QUESTIONS ANSWERED .. ..25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT 26
SMOKE-011 (with drawings) .. .. .. 28
POVERTY POINT 31
INKY WAY 31
SHADOW SHOWS 33
SPORTING (illustrated) 35, 36
V.R.C. GRAND NATIONAL STEEPLECHASE.. 35
ROSEHILL RACES 35
TEST CRTCKET 35
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER—
THE MOST PATHETIC CROWD IN SYDNEY 39
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 41
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 44
THE SERIAL—
“THE PASSAGE,” by Vance Palmer.. 42, 43, 45
AS WE SAID BEFORE—With drawings by Phil
May and “Hop” .. .. .. .. 47
A COMPLETE STORY'—
“THE SPIRIT,” by Osmar E. White .. 49, 50
VERSE. —By M. Forrest, Roderic Quinn. . 45, 50
JULY 30.
“THIRTY PIECES OF SILVER,”
Monty Grover’s story of a Journalist’s Life will
open in this number and will be continued in large
instalments until completed.
ffuTlfeitlleiz/rt
WEDNESDAY, JULY 16, 1930.
THE BLOT ON THE BUDGET.
If the Scullin-Theodores had given half as
much attention to cutting down expenditure
as they gave to raising new revenue
it might have been twice as good a Budget.
The public services are preposterously
overmanned; their methods are outrage-
ously extravagant. Yet, outside the Defence
Department, scarcely a thing has been done
to deal with this firmly entrenched scandal.
Notwithstanding “a present and prospective
deficiency” of £14,038,370, the expenditure on
Governmental services has been increased
from £52,302,742 last year (actual) to
£53,227,350 this year (estimated). The
growth of expenditure during the period of
madness that followed the war has been
staggering. Take a 10-year comparison of
expenditure:—
1917-18. 1927-28.
Parliament .. . . . . £237,464 £419,931
Prime Minister . . . . 234,568 1,623,066
Attorney-General . . .. 96,930 231,698
Treasurer . . . . . . 447,526 777,082
Trade and Customs . . .. 715,129 2,002,143
Defence 2,834,321 4,185,818
Postal . . . / . . 5,349,994 12,392,976
Home and Territories . . 468,701 789,787
Works and Railways . . 672,893 1,267,173
And there are departments which have come
into existence during the 10 years and there-
fore are not included in that almost in-
credible comparison: the Health Depart-
ment, for example, a creation of 1921-22,
superimposed upon the Health Departments
of the States, and costing in 1927-28 no less
than £371,354. A still later creation is the
Department of Markets and Migration
(1924-25), which contrived in the very first
year of its existence to scatter £869,717 with
a lordly hand. Most of these figures could
be cut in halves, and most of them will
have to be cut in halves. Our circum-
stances will compel it.
That Ministers have meekly submitted to
the pressure of the departmental officers
by whom they are surrounded and cut
nothing except Defence is the great blot
upon the Budget. Indeed, it is more than
a blot: it is a virus affecting eveiy other
line in the estimates; the new taxation is
only necessary because the monstrous
growth of Governmental extravagance over
the past 12 years has been left untouched.
The Government, nevertheless, has seen
what is our supreme need. As The Bulle-
tin has been 'insisting for so long, it is
the gold shortage which will bring Aus-
tralia crashing, if it does crash. The Gov-
ernment has thus had two problems to
face: one, the less of the two, how to
make revenue and expenditure balance;
the other, infinitely the greater, how to
make exports balance imports plus interest
on foreign debts. In the struggle to secure
the latter balance the Government may
have made minor errors; but it has kept
to the only track which could possibly lead
to success. Through its new tariff it hopes
to reduce imports by £40,000,000 per
annum. If it had left the matter alone the
imports would have cut themselves down
to an indefinite extent at an indefinite date.
As they have been paid for to the extent
of some £40,000,000 a year out of external
loans, and as such loans have become im-
possible, large stoppage was inevitable.
But the Government preferred to have the
stoppage without the smash. And it in-
sisted on the right to decide which imports
should stop and when, otherwise the
matter would be decided by the banks,
which would decide to cash somebody’s
drafts and not somebody else’s. Parliament
may thus be making actually less drastic
stoppages than the banks would have done.
And it can put the unavoidable ban on
articles which local industry can supply, and
keep it there. From every point of view
it would be a disaster if the list of pro-
hibitions was left to be decided by private
financial interests, which might smite a new
industry hard as soon as it started, and
favor something else instead, if any start
was possible amid such uncertainty.
As a matter of theory, the Federal Trea-
sury will lose some millions annually in
Customs revenue by the reduction of
imports—the ones formerly paid for with
external loans. But if the tariff, had been
left alone the trouble would have remained.
Whether a certain mass of imports is
stopped by a policy of intentional selec-
tion, or whether it stops itself promiscuously
through absence of the borrowed funds to
pay with, the Customs revenue must suffer.
But, despite reductions, Australia is likely
to import to the value of over 80 millions
per annum, and it is proposed to charge
considerably more duty on these goods than
they would have paid if the tariff had been
left alone, so there are compensations.
The problem is tremendous in point of
size, yet there are no real complications
about it. It isn’t an international one which
drags in parties whom we can’t control. It
isn’t the kind of internal disagreement
which arises from the presence of mixed
races, mixed colors and mixed truculent
creeds. These are difficulties which come on
a people through no fault of its own and
last indefinitely. There is no violent
monarchy or aggressive nobility or bounce-
able church involved. The only thing amiss
is that a favored race has done too little
work and demanded more wages for it than
the value of the work done can pay, and has
got into remarkable borrowing and import-
ing habits as a consequence, and feels a
bitter sense of injury because its long,
leisurely spell is running out.
NEVER MIND THEODORE: WHAT
ABOUT OURSELVES?
There is a much more important question
than whether Mr. Theodore is guilty. It
is whether we are guilty ourselves, and, if
so, to what extent.
For years past nasty rumors have been
floating around Queensland, and the Oppo-
sition went to the country telling the people
that if it was given power those rumors
would be investigated. The people gave
the then Opposition the power it sought;
and in due course a Commission was
appointed to make the inquiry. No objec-
tion was taken to the Commissioner.
Indeed, it would have been hard to find
ground for objection. Had he reported
differently there is no question that he
would have been cheered as a most upright
Judge. Coming to the conclusions he did,
the whole Commission proceedings—find-
ings and all—have been cursed as a Nation-
alist conspiracy.
That outciy has, of course, come from
one side of the political |ence. On the
other side there has been something quite
as characteristic. There have been most
unmistakable rejoicings that the Commis-
sioner found dishonesty and fraud. This
was something that would do the Labor
party great harm; this was something that
would put Theodore where he couldn’t do
much mischief for a while, anyhow; this
was something out of which political capital
could be made for years.
Somebody said “My country right or
wrong!” We have improved on that. Now
it is “My party, right, or wrong!” If one
of us is charged with being a rogue, we
must be prepared to say that those who
charge him are rogues themselves, and that
our man is lily-white. If one of the Oppo-
sition is charged, we must be prepared to
shout hosannas because it reflects on the
party to which the accused belongs—even
though it robs us, for the time being, at
any rate, of a conspicuously able Minister,
at the very moment when his undoubted
talents might be expected to be of special
value to the country.
That is where our absorption in- and by
party has brought us. They tell us that no
other method of government is practicable.
We refuse to believe that successful govern-
ment must depend on dishonesty, hypocrisy
and lying. All that, nevertheless, our
party system entails—demands. The party
must “pull together.” The member must
cast his vote in Parliament not according
to what he believes to be right, but accord-
ing to what some others believe to be right.
And often not even right. Mr. Lang must
get on his feet and declare every proposal
of Mr. Bavin to be an abomination. The
whole atmosphere is tainted. In any other
walk of life men who profess to believe
what they do not believe are hypocrites;
men who say what they believe to be un-
true are liars; men who say and do these
things for the sake of money or power are
dishonest. But here they are applauded
and rewarded.
The rule in Parliament is followed by
those outside who are nearest the party
machines. Mr. Fallon, president of the
N.S.W. Clothing Trades Union, for
example, declared the charges made against
Mr. Theodore were a “frame-up designed
by the Queensland Government to drive
him out of the Labor party.” If Mr. Fallon
did not believe it, he was bound neverthe-
less to say it, according to the rules of this
rotten business, but he probably did believe,
it. He knew that sections of his own party
have repeatedly accused other sections of
bringing “framed-up” charges; and no
doubt he knew, too, what a powerful
weapon it is. Indeed, it was by just such
flagrant dishonesty that the last Federal
election was won. No promise was too
ridiculous, no accusation against the other
side too outrageous. Among other things,
the coal trouble was going to be settled
in a fortnight without costing the miners
a fraction in time or money. The promises
were soon proved to be false; and if the
campaign director did not know they were
false, he has not one-hundredth part of the
intelligence he seems to have. Yet even when
the promises were proved false his own
party did not rebuke him. On the con-
trary it cheered him. He had won a
glorious victory; and a party victory is
greater than truth and honesty and straight-
dealing.
This week Sir Otto Niemeyer, of the
Bank of England, arrives in Australia, at
the invitation of the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment, to see if he can help us out of
our overwhelming financial difficulties. He
will find that, in addition to our Govern-
ments’ enormous internal loans, we have
bori’owed so much abroad that our imports
have exceeded our exports by 40 millions
per annum over many years past. He will
find that behind it all, the cause of it all,
was a huge system of political corruption,
party competing with party for popular
favor, and dipping into the public purse
and pledging the public credit to purchase
it. He will find that thousands of miles
of railway which could not possibly pay
were built under the pretence of opening
up country, but in reality to win the few
votes in the neighborhood for the party in
power and to provide jobs for workers, with
votes to give away, at higher wages than
they could command anywhere else. And
he will find that thousands of other men
were passed into Government jobs, main-
taining and running these unnecessary
works, for the same corrupt purpose.
And the public has stood by and not
only tolerated all this, but enjoyed it and
encouraged, it. Only now and then has
there been any public rebellion and a
serious attempt to put an end to it: of
these rebellions that of Queensland at the
last general election was the most wide-
spread and admirable. For the rest,
except (perhaps in Tasmania, there has
been no real awakening. There are those
who believe that the party system must
go before we can hope for anything better.
The Bulletin, while it has no love for
the party system, does not believe that in
itself it is as bad as that. It has only
been made bad—largely because it has had
too many loaves and fishes to distribute.
Yet one thing is certain; if it cannot be
conducted with truth, honesty and sincerity
it has no right to exist; and in a demo-
cracy it is for the people to say whether
it shall have those virtues or not. Lately
it has not had them, because some of us
have thought it paid us better to be with-
out them and the rest of us have not
troubled much whether we had them or not.
LOST TRADE CHANCES IN ASIA.
I have now been living “out East,” as we
say, for 16 years, eight around the Malay
States, Singapore, Penang, etc., and the
rest in Hongkong. It is of the latter and
the opportunities it offers that I now speak.
Doing business with the stores, one is
immediately struck with the manner in
which the American packing firms in both
high-class and lower-priced goods have cap-
tured the Hongkong provision market.
That means also the Southern Chinese mar-
ket, as Hongkong is the collecting port for
goods bound for South China. Britain is
fairly well represented in the shops as
regards manufactured articles, but does not
compete with the U.S.A. in tinned vege-
tables or fruits to any great extent; tinned
fish, jams, biscuits and other dry goods are
her “best bets” on this market. But what
is the matter with Australia? Here is a
population of at least one hundred millions
(S. China alone) who are yearly using more
Western goods, yet Australian products are
unknown to the vast majority. More and
more the market goes to America.
There are two reasons why. First, judi-
cious advertising. The Australian manufac-
turer I judge to be the poorest advertiser
in the world. He knows more about his
own business at home, no doubt, than I do,
but I insist that I know more about the
possibilities of his business here than he
does, and I assure him that he will get no-
where at all in this market without adver-
tising. (I am not directly or indirectly in-
terested in any advertising mediums or
devices.) Secondly, the get-up of the
American’s tinned stuff is superior. It
appeals to the eye and the article practi-
cally sells itself. Most important of all,
his fruit, etc., is graded. You get what you
pay for whether it is expensive or cheap,
and that is the secret of repeat sales. I
was buying tinned fruits in a large Euro-
pean house in Hongkong, and was, as
usual, taking a well-known American
brand, when I was approached by the
department manager as to whether I would
lift an Australian brand —he would let me
have the whole line considerably below cost,
as they wished to clear it. Not caring
to buy a brand of which I had no previous
knowledge I asked for a sample, which I
took home and opened. It was then very
easily seen why there was a difficulty in
selling the line. The fruit—they were peaches
—were all shapes and sizes and were mostly
of a greenish tinge, as if they had been
preserved before being ripe. No attempt at
uniformity had been made; and although
they tasted quite good, they were not an
attractive or saleable article. I returned
to the store next day and, needless to say,
did not buy the line. The manager told
me they were not stocking Australian tinned
fruits again, and they have kept their
word.
A firm in Australia renowned for its
cakes,. biscuits, etc., used to have quite a
big trade here in those articles, and the
products were as good as it is possible to
get and made a fine display in the principal
Chinese and European shops. At Christmas
time, however, I was unable to buy this
firm’s pliun-puddings, and for some time its
cakes and biscuits do not appear to have
been on the market. Crosse and Blackwell
have cut them out; everywhere I am
offered their goods instead. It is another
case of the market to the better advertiser
when other things are approximately equal.
The one bright spot for the Australian
in this market is made by Australian jams.
They are quite well got up and have a big
sale; they are sold at a competitive price,
and are better than their competitors at
the same figure. In flavor they are far
above any cheap British or Canadian jams
sold here, but do not compare for looks
with the British or American high-class
jams which are put up in glass jars. Canada
at present does not compete in this latter
class. O.T. products—orange juice, lemon
squash, etc. —have a moderate sale, but
one would not know there were such things
sold in Southern China unless one saw
them in the stores. There is a big demand
for tomato sauce. British, American and
Chinese brands all have a big sale. I have
often wondered why Australian makers have
not established themselves on this market;
the opportunity is here, beyond a doubt.
There is a brand of pickled walnuts (Aus-
tralian) on this market which is just about
the worst I have ever eaten. It is certainly
cheaper in price than its English com-
petitor and may be bought at first* because
of that; but very few will buy a second
bottle. The fruit is of second quality, or
worse, and the pickling appears to have
been done in a haphazard fashion. Many
of the nuts are as hard as iron. They are
a bad advertisement for Australia.
Other goods from Australia are sold on
this market, but one does not hear of them.
That is the whole trouble. It is no use
the traveller going round the stores solicit-
ing orders unless the goods are advertised
in the local papers (English and Chinese).
You have to recollect that the trade is now
firmly held by British and Americans, and
they have to be first dislodged. The re-
tailer will not advertise. Unless he runs a
chain of stores he rarely does in any part
of the world. More and more the intro-
duction is being left to the manufacturer:
if he does not attend to it his rival does.
That seems to me the lesson above all that
the Australian manufacturer must learn
from his British and American competitors.
I have no doubt that at first results would
be disappointing here, but with persistence
things would improve and in due time
Australian merchants would get their fair
share of this enormous market to the north
of them.
HONGKONG.
OLD AUSTRALIAN.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
New Taxes and Old Barnacles.
Mr. Scullidore says he will require
£12,550,000 more from the national income
which he admits has greatly diminished, to
balance the accounts this year. Expenditure
is to be increased by £1,094,000, Mr. Sculli-
dore having promised to give the States
£2,000,000 for roads and another £1,000,000
for other relief works besides providing
£150,000 for the absorption of surplus coal-
miners somehow and somewhere, and find-
ing a long list of bounties. He has also
undertaken not to vex the Public Service
unions with economies, save for “the drastic


THE DRESS PARADE.
“Aidermeu of Mosinau and other suburban councils, as well as of the Sydney City Council, are expected to attend the meetings in evening dress.”
THE MAYOR: “We wear these glad rags in working hours, sir, to show the world we still have a few things we haven’t pawned.”
VISITING FINANCIER: “And to remind yourselves, too, I hope, of the forty millions a year you’ve bought and not paid for.”
cuts m the Defence Department,” soldiers
being non-unionists and defence a matter
of minor importance.
So up goes the income tax again, N. S.
W ales and Victoria having already increased
theirs. Up go the Customs duties on petrol
(another 3d. a gallon), newsprint (another
£1 a ton), smokes and wireless valves, and the
excise duties on petrol, beer and cigarettes.
Up goes postage to twopence a half-ounce
letter, with corresponding increases on
postcards and letter-cards. There are also
to be primage duties of 21 per cent, on all
imported goods, with a few specified excep-
tions, the old free list being indefinitely
suspended; and a sales tax of 2j- per cent.,
which is confidently expected to bring in
£5,000,000. Naturally, with all this going
on, the Hollywood film “industry” could not
hope to escape, but Labor has been as
kind as possible to its friends over the water.
The amount added to the film duty is only a
penny a foot, and the direct tax, of which so
much has been said, boils down to the ordinary
company rate on 30 p.c. of what Homs-
wogglestein gets for flooding this country with
goods which, in a sense, are second-hand,
having already had the run of the American
market, and for debauching the public taste.
Mr. Scullidore has gone to Canada for the
notion of his sales tax, but he has over-
looked one very important fact. In Canada
the sales tax is a substitute for income tax,
and as such it has certainly been success-
ful. In 1927-28 the sales tax yielded just
on 64 million dollars; the income tax
million dollars. During the corresponding
year the amount dragged from Australians
who paid income tax was 25f million pounds,
and the rates have since been heavily in-
creased in the Commonwealth and at least
three States. And there are 9f million Can-
adians and not 6-2- million Australians. The
public will not submit cheerfully to the sales
tax unless it is accompanied, as in Canada,
by a substantial reduction of income tax,
arranged in concert with the State Treasurers.
In fact it will not submit cheerfully to any
addition to its towering load of taxation
until the terrific cost of Federal Government
is wholeheartedly cut down.
In four years more than 3000 public ser-
vants were added to the already bloated
Commonwealth list. In 1913-14, excluding
Judges, Admirals and Generals, but not poli-
ticians, only 27 persons in the Common-
wealth service received salaries of £IOOO
and upwards; now the number is 234. And
the salaries in many cases have been
doubled; one official, the secretary of the
Postmaster-General’s department, is getting
four times the 1913 figure. It is an insult
to an overburdened people to tell it, as Mr.
Scullidore does, that no savings can be
effected in these overmanned departments,
and that it is “not anomalous that when
commodity costs are falling the public
servants should enjoy increments.” These
people will have to make sacrifices, the
politicians first.
*
Gold and Paper.
Scullin’s financial policy is to impose 12
to 14 millions of new taxes per annum,
which is a very large event. But what The
Bulletin has to insist upon once more is
that all this money won’t make Australia
one penny more solvent, or a day further
removed from bankruptcy in England and
the United States than it was before. Nor
will the local £10,000,000 loan, or a local
£50,000,000 loan either.
In the absence of external loans insolv-
ency abroad can only be averted by making
saleable exports pay for imports and leave
30 million pounds over to cover interest.
Paper money, whether raised by taxation
or by loan, isn’t a saleable export. As
regards this foreign situation, affairs are
worse than it was hoped they would be.
Imports are diminishing, and under the 1 new
tariff, they will diminish more, that being
a matter which is within our own control.
But the value (quantity doesn’t signify)
of exports isn’t within our control, and
it started to diminish first, and it has gone
on diminishing. The new tariff isn’t in
time to save the situation, though it should
do so later on if the immediate crisis can
be surmounted. That is to say, the situ-
ation may be put right, not by increasing
revenue receivable in paper, but by reducing
import liabilities payable in gold. Some
help may be gained by an expansion of the
value of exports, but that must take time
and is gravely uncertain.
Great Britain was never in a situation
like ours in peace time, for its exports,
added to some few hundred millions per
annum derived from foreign investments
and businesses, always leave it with a
favorable balance of trade. It has never
had to consider any other sort of balance.
Owing to inability to understand that Aus-
tralia isn’t at all like Britain, many English-
trained economists make a sorry exhibition
when they supply this community with
prescriptions derived from British Freetrade
textbooks.
*
The Rebellion of Woman.
A woman speaks:—
*The Bulletin (25/6/’3O) is right when
it speaks of the rebellion of woman as a
physical one. It is physical, but not quite
in the way man thinks of it. The fact is
that woman as a whole has become body
conscious. From earliest history the woman
who was body conscious always got from life
exactly what she wanted. But in the bad
old times only the aristocrat had time to
develop that consciousness to the full. It
was only the rich woman who could keep
her flesh smooth and white, her limbs supple,
and her hair a shining cloud, and on top
of that have her choice of the jewels and
silks of the world in which to deck them.
Also the beauty secrets of the elect were
closely guarded. The peasant woman and
the decent burghei*’s woman knew nothing of
their bodies except that their function was
to bear children.
But presently the wife and daughter of
the burgher began to see that there was no
need for a woman of 30 to be a shapeless
burden of flesh surrounded by a litter. Per-
fumes, powders and simples became an open
book to the middle-class woman. Factories
sprang up, and the working women, forced
into them at first through man’s greed,
found that, instead of spinning and delving
all day for the food, roof and the kicks and
curses husband or father lavished on her, she
had a bit of money to spend. On what
should she spend it? Herself of course!
At first it was frittered on feathers, silk
dresses and kid boots. But she found those
didn’t keep her body from sagging, or her
hands smooth. She saw the millowners’
wives and daughters—a simple reckoning
proved that many of them were older than
herself yet retained the bloom of youth she
had lost all too speedily. She saw that a
pretty working girl could land a softer job
and higher pay (decently, too) than her
plainer sister. But, unfortunately, the pretty
girl faded so soon. Woman’s problem of
how to keep a good thing when you had it
was still unsolved, when man, for cheapness
sake again, decided to use her in commerce.
The business girl had more education and
used her brain more than the factory worker.
She was the backbone of that early struggle
for women’s rights. But, having got the
vote, she found it was a useless asset;
brains without pulchritude would still keep
a good girl down, but brains ulus pulchri-
tude would land her on the board of direc-
tors.
The business woman became acutely body
conscious. She went out after beauty. It
took her into the field of sport as well as
into the powder closet. She found that golf
and tennis and hockey need not make the
skin leathery, but did make the complexion
clear. She threw off corsets, and allowed
her muscles their freedom. She found that
a bright eye and an easy open-air manner
would land bigger and better jobs; and that
meant more money to spend on her body
and on her pleasure. Pleasure! That had
been man’s monopoly. With the exception
of the Cleopatras and the Ninons, young
women had never had half the time the
young male of the species had enjoyed. If
she could keep her health good, her body
beautiful, and grab off enough of the world’s
money by the exercise of her brain, there
was no reason why she shouldn’t savor the
oyster of life to the full—the Marie Stopes
sisterhood having removed the stumbling
block of child-bearing. Soon the factory
girl absorbed a good deal of the lesson from
her business sister, the cinema and the sex-
novel. No longer are packing and labelling
and guiding an electric machine the only
avenues open to her. She, too, is body con-
scious. She has her gymnasiums, her per-
manent waves, her sports, her beauty treat-
ments—for the world-wide demand has
cheapened the supply. As her brain matures
she sees, as does the business woman, polb
tics and professions and mechanics beckoning
her. The cleverish woman with good looks
can go anywhere, and good looks aren’t
extinct at 40. There’s many a woman of
to-day catalogued at first glance in the girl
class who is a close runner-up of the famed
Ninon.
Now that Steinbach’s taken a hand,
Heaven knows where the woman’s reign will
end. But it wasn’t really a spirit of rebel-
lion that prompted the upheaval; it was the
lure of the world, the flesh, and the creating
of a little Heaven on earth of her own.
♦
The Sydney Tramway System.
“Little regard is paid to the employees’ comfort.”
— Dethridge, J.
“In the construction of new cars, the safety of
the tram _ conductors should be a very prominent
consideration.”— F. 8. Boyce to the Transport Board.
With the new Transport Board will rest
the task of turning a losing proposition into
the money-spinner that the Sydney tramway
system should be. To reach that goal, it
will be necessary for the new men to study
the methods of their predecessors and then
avoid most of them.
One of the earliest reforms should be
the scrapping of the present type of cars
and the substitution of a centre-aisle car
of modern design. The men who are
going have held that the corridor type is
unsuitable for Sydney. They have based
their objections on two grounds—loss of
seating accommodation and slower loading
—and have maintained these objections in
the face of world-wide evidence to the con-
trary. In Paris 725 million passengers are
carried annually on corridor cars. The
Berlin population (4,000,000) is shifted by
corridor cars. Detroit carries 1| million
passengers per day on corridor cars, which
is 50 per cent, more than Sydney’s traffic.
On one day in 1928 Chicago’s centre-aisle
tramways transported five million pas-
sengers, which is five times more than the
most passengers ever carried on Sydney
tramways in one day. The average speed
of the Sydney and Chicago trams is the
same—ll miles per hour.
Mr. McCarthy, A.1.E.E., with Australian
and American experience, says: “It is quite
possible to produce a corridor car and pro-
vide for greater crush loading than at the
present time.” Dr. Bradfield goes further
“With the centre-aisle type there would be
less loss in the collection of fares and less
inconvenience to the employees and public.
The seating capacity could be increased
without any greater overhang than at pre-
sent.”
The footboard has cost the public many
hundreds of thousands of pounds, but the
expense is so well hidden among “compen-
sation” items that it is impossible to get
even approximate figures. During one
three-year period £25,810 was paid in com-
pensation to the victims of the footboard,
but the amount disbursed in accident pay,
compensation to dependants of men fatally
injured and to the travelling public is
unknown. The number of footboard
casualties is also very hard to get at.
During a ten-year period (1/3/T6 to
31/10/’25), 2626 employees were badly
injured. One conductor was swept from his
car three times; numbers have had this
experience twice. On an average, one
conductor is injured every day—that can be
said definitely.
The footboard type of car is not designed
to attract public patronage. In summer
time it is coated with dust, impossible
to keep clean and ruinous to delicate
apparel. In winter time it is flooded
with biting draughts. In wet weather the
collection of fares results in a drenching
for any person who is unfortunate enough
to be sitting or standing near an exit.
The new Transport Act has given large
powers to board. The right to deal
with competition, never before enjoyed,
has been granted. If, in these circum-
stances, the tramways cannot be brought
up to date and at the same time made to
pay, it ought, to be the end of public
ownership, in this section.


in the dance
it’s grace/
Che
in a cigarette
it’s TASTE /
POLITICA
POINTS
The lot of the Federal taxpayer is hard,
but it might have been harder. If Parker
Moloney had had his way the Government
would now be bound to find 4s. Bd. a bushel
for next season’s wheat: 4s. at sidings, plus
Sd. for rail and other charges—and on
present indications that would have meant,
besides other complications, » loss of 7d. or
Bd. a bushel on a 160-million-bushel crop.
Scullin must have been the most relieved
man in Australia when the Senate flattened
out Moloney.
There is some luridly mixed thinking over
the new Scullin taxes and the pinch in
London. One supposedly authoritative body
says that, instead of putting on these new
taxes, we should borrow in London —pre-
sumably to pay the 30 millions we owe or
soon will owe there. As a matter of fact,
if Scullin multiplied the present taxes by
10 they wouldn’t pay a bean of our debt in
London. In our worry whether Scullin is
dipping too deep into our pockets we are
almost wholly overlooking the real problem
—how to find gold to pay John Bull his 30
millions a year. Collecting taxes (in paper)
certainly won’t do it.
Theodore did not advance his cause by his
fierce attack on ex-Justice Campbell of
N.S.W., who presided over the Mungana
Commission and gave his opinion that Mun-
gana was a disreputable hole in the ground.
The ex-Treasurer called Campbell “a hired
assassin.” This seemed to be the official
A.L.P. view until the “Labor Daily” trench-
antly declared that “the integrity of Mr.
Justice Campbell is undoubted in this State,”
and that “it is for Mr. Theodore to exculpate
himself.” Theodore has now gone to Queens-
land to demand that he be prosecuted, and
the A.L.P. executive announces that, as far
as it is concerned, judgment will be sus-
pended for two months.
But for substantial savings in the Rail*
ways Department there would have been a
much bigger Vic. deficit than the £BOO,OOO
or so that Hogan will
announce in Parliament
next week. Proposals for
1930-31 will be reserved
for the Budget in Sep-
tember or thereabouts,
but there is not much
doubt that there will be
economies in other de-
partments, including stop-
"Federal Labor has raised taxation to the limit.”
Scullin tries his strength.
page of some increments and deductions
from all salaries, ranging from 2% to 10 p.c.
Land tax (now a halfpenny in the £ on
unimproved values) may be increased; any
addition to income tax, already too high, is
out of the question.
Prices of all the minerals produced at
Broken Hill having tumbled, it was inti-
mated that the choice lay between wage-
reduction or stoppage of some more mines,
and it took 15 minutes for a miners’ meet-
ing to decide on stoppage. The stoppers
have now applied to the impecunious Federal
Government for support. If people who are
too proud to submit to a reduction of wages
v/ere also too proud to reduce other people’s
wages by exacting direct or indirect contri-
butions, it would make things easier. The
individual who goes on hunger strike
shouldn’t demand that the community should
pay his board.
Queensland’s one successful State enter-
prise, the Babinda hotel, has been sold, but
it made a much better exit than its unpros-
perous fellows. It brought £50,000, having
cost £25,000 to build and turned in profits
amounting to £36,000 in 13 years. Babinda
is a thirsty place, but so was Gwalia when
the Westralian Government ran up a pub
there; and in that case most of the popula-
tion left after a few years, taking their
thirst with them.
A Sydney “Herald” writer says that the
goldfields vote forced Westralia into Federa-
tion, which' is true, but he goes on to assert
that “the easy gold having been exhausted,
the greedy swarm of metal-seekers hastened
east again,” which is rubbish. Most of them
stayed, and helped to make Westralia a
great wheat-growing State. All over the
wheat belt and the pastoral districts they
may be found, and there are no better
farmers or pastoralists anywhere.
During part of the next few months Aus-
tralia will be without an army, a few elderly
caretakers and the like excepted; the order
reads:—
For the quarter ending September 30 all members
of the Permanent Forces will be given 14 days’
leave without pay, excepting those drawing less
“Now bring on your enemy!”
than £221 p.a. These latter will also be given
their week’s leave in the quarter ending Sep-
tember 30.
Presumably the civilian staff, led by Mr.
Shepherd (who gets £2OOO p.a., plus another
£l5O or so for travelling expenses), will be
mobilised, with files, typewriters and foun-
tain-pens, and drafted to points of danger.
Under Federal law as it now stands an
Arbitration Judge is required, in making an
award, to consider whether there is money
enough in the industry to pay it. The pre-
caution amounts to little, because the Arbi-
tration Judges are lawyers and not financial
or industrial authorities; still, the proviso
is an instruction for their guidance. Its
removal from the Scullidores’ bill also
appears to bo an instruction for their guid-
ance. The Attorney-General explained that
the ptoviso is “obnoxious and unnecessary.”
wherefore it goes out. At the same time
he says it is natural to assume that his
Honor’s own horse-sense will lead him to act
on the “obnoxious” clause, and that being
so it might as well remain. To repeal the
law is like erecting a notice in your garden
“There is no law against rubbish being shot
here.”
The worst blot on Scullidore’s Budget, as
set down by the author: —
The charges to be borne by general revenue in
1930-31 compare with those for 1929-30 as follow:
1929-30, £64,516,467; 1930-31, £65,610,770;
increase, £1,094,303.
This in spite of what he calls “the drastic
cuts in the Defence Department,” from
which secretary Shepherd (salary, £2OOO
p.a., plus about £l5O for expenses) and all
the other clerks are exempt. Civil servants
are the one body of Australian employees
whose jobs are safe and who are specially
provided for by the taxpayer against sick-
ness, old age and death. It is only fair,
now that things have come to a crisis, that
they should pay for this security. The
Federal horde has swelled to nearly 29,000, and
even a 10 p.c. salary reduction, with stop-
page of all increments, would take £825.000
p.a. off the terrific cost of government. But
there is to be no reduction or stoppage of
increments. Federal Labor prefers to make
sure of the Public Service vote and rifle the
pockets of people whose jobs are not safe.
A Sydney enthusiast has a great plan for
balancing the Budget. He says that if the
Commonwealth changes its postage-stamp
designs often and severely limits the issues,
philatelists will buy them up at many times
their face value; U.S.A., it seems, makes
£10,000,000 a year in this fashion, and
Maoriland raked in £1.500,000 “a little while
ago.” Maoriland did have an orgy of new
stamp designs, but it was many years ago;
and if there were any money in the business
nowadays the frugal islanders would grab it
with both hands. The Commonwealth has
had two recent changes in its stamp designs
—one to commemorate the Westralian cen-
tenary, and another to do honor to Sturt.
The Postal Department is still being run at
a loss.
MacDonald’s Ministry dodged defeat in
the House of Commons the other day by a
majority of only three. Lloyd George led
25 Liberals to vote against the Government
on a Finance Bill, and 15 more stayed away.
Quite recently George promised the steady
support of his little party for the Minis-
terial policy of the destruction of British
industries, but his inherent wobble soon
got him.
“Group settlement” was one of Jimmy
Mitchell’s inventions. An overhaul is now
in progress, and Premier Jimmy has been
informed that SO2 blocks are worth £887,530,
though £2,674,678 of loan money has been
spent on them. The State’s loss is thus
£1,757,145, and there are 1148 more blocks
to be valued. Westralia wasn’t like Vic-
toria, where £36,000,000 was spent in buy-
ing land back from swindlers and others
while a mere pair of millions was lent to
the new settlers. Westralia bought back
only £325,000 worth of land, but it threw
in a lot of public land, magnificently tim-
bered for the most part, but patchy for
farming, and lent a crowd of people
£18.000,000 to settle on it. A great many
of them seem to have got more to sustain
them on their farms than the farms are now
worth.
The affable MacDonald Government has
concluded a treaty conferring independence
on Iraq, so business in the robbery and
murder line, which has been cramped under
the British mandate, should soon be looking
up. The bedouin of the rivers is even a
more objectionable scoundrel than his cousin
of the desert, and quite as insanitary. Now
it will be a case of “I’ll say as I like, and
I’ll do as I like, and I’ll smell as I like in my
own stable-yard.”
The cumbersome and expensive apparatus
of wage-fixing isn’t regarded as a subject for
economy. The Scullin Ministry, kicked from
behind by the extremists, put a lot of mixed
ideas into its Arbitration Bill, one of them
being that wages must not be reduced or
hours extended unless three Judges were
unanimous on the point. Of course one
Judge could grant more pay with less toil,
and as his work couldn’t be undone till
three Judges could be spared for the job the
raising process would be much the faster
of the two. Then the Opposition moved that
three Judges should be required either way,
and fearing defeat in the Senate Attorney-
General Brennan assented. So more hands
Will be required for the same old job, and
the movement towards more production will
be delayed. Incidentally, the Chief Judge
must always be one of the three. If some
fool Government enacted that the High
Court couldn’t decide anything unless the
Chief Justice was present it would be a
snail of a court.
The Broken Hill miners who are not work-
ing because they demand impossibilities, have
asked for, among other things, a bonus of
Is. an ounce on silver, and various Federal
public works to supply employment. But a
bdnus on silver is very different from a bonus
on gold. The production of more silver
wouldn’t affect the value of other production
at all, whereas the production of more gold
would tend to put up the price of every other
commodity, gold being the standard by which
other things are valued. On the other hand,
every drawback which the gold bonus has
applies also to silver.
It is reckoned that visitors from abroad
spend £40,000,000 a year in Canada and
only £2,000,000 in Australia. The differ-
ence, if we could snare the tourist on the
Canadian scale, would pay the interest on
all our external debts, provided Australia
took reasonable care of the money. A
Federal bounty is, of course, suggested, one
Suggested substitute for a bounty.
proposal being that tourist-agents should be
paid £5 for each globe-trotter to whom they
contrive to sell a ticket for these parts. The
trouble is that the bonus on the ordinary
crop of trotters would be a serious drain
on the lean Treasury, and. there would be
no assurance that the additional crop would
make up the loss.
Representatives of Victorian municipal
councils, led by Waranga, asked Premier
Hogan the other day to prune politicians’
salaries, and left without a definite answer
one way or the other. But Hogan threw
out a broad hint that something might be
done as regards permanent State officers.
George Turner in 1595 cut down the appro-
priation for Ministers from £15,500 to
£10,400 and docked members’ pay 20 p.c.
Sydney City Council has been invited to
nominate a member of the new Transport
Trust, but is hurt because the Act bars
aldermen. It is a wise provision. Muni-
cipal control of transport has led to notori-
“Too heady for you, dearie!”
ous jobs in places like Chicago and Phila-
delphia, and the reborn innocent must
be shielded from temptations which have
proved too strong for aldermen there.
Employers sometimes wonder why small
unions allow themselves to be gobbled up by
concerns like the A.W.U. The experience of
the N.S.W. Woolclassers’ Association helps
to explain. The woolclassers had a State
wages award for three years from Jan. 1,
1929, which was upset by the Arbitration
Act passed last year. In view of the slump
they offered to accept a 12| p.c. reduction;
the reply was that they would have to take
cuts ranging from 12% p.c. for wool-classing
alone to nearly 60 p.c. where other duties
(rolling, book-keeping and the like) were
combined. Thus a man who got £44 2s. in a
10,000-sheep shed last season would have to
take £24 11s. this time. It is rough on an
honest little union which has never had a
strike*
“Sol Malaprop”: “One of the greatest
gatherings of business men ever held in
Sydney,” to quote the newspaper reports,
met last week to say that everything is
wrong, and tell how it should be put right.
The most definite suggestion was that “it
would be better to endeavor to borrow- the
money to balance the Budget, providing for
its repayment out of future revenue spread
over, say, five years.” This was carried
with enthusiasm. The real trouble is one of
raising £30,000,000 in gold within a few
weeks in order to stave off default, and the
eminent meeting didn’t explain its method
of finding this. The Ministry was urged to
“consult leading commercial men,” but
apparently there are leading commercial
men who don’t know even at this late hour
what the real problem is.
In the Victorian Government’s defence: —
The section of the Glenelg which is to be diverted
for domestic and town water supply is in the vicinity
of Horsham, and Shepparton is 300 miles away; so
why should Shepparton object (B. 11/6/’3O) ? Of
the 300 men on the Glenelg job, half have been
obtained locally, as also have half of the 180
men on the Goulburn Valley irrigation work, the
one in which Shepparton is concerned. The facts
as to the allocation of the tax-money raised for
the unemployed are that the State Rivers Commission
gets £llB,OOO ; the Forests Commission £74,000 ;
the Mines Department £lO,OOO ; the Country Roads
Board £154,000; municipalities, mainly rural,
£50,000 on a pound-for-pound basis; and Public
Works £185,000. Three-fourths of it goes outside
the towns.
The N.S.W. teachers’ side:—
In September an increase of Is. lOkl. per week
was granted to over 95 per cent, of male teachers,
a few headmasters receiving more. After 11 weeks
a half-crown drop in the basic wage thumped salaries
back 71d. p,w. below the old award rates, When
the conciliation proceedings became unduly pro-
tracted, the chairman of the Public Service Board
announced that a claim for retrospective pay would
not be opposed. This undertaking was not honored
by the Government, and when the T.F, president
murmured something about repudiation Minister
Drummond declared the Federation “black.” He
has since admitted (in the light of the shorthand
reporters’ evidence) that the undertaking was giver
but makes no step toward honoring it; so the
teachers are going on with their claim.
For three years’ back pay. The Bulletin
remains of the opinion that they are sing-
ularly ill advised.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Sol M.”: Carol, the comic-operatic
monarch of Roumania, still provides the world
with mirth, though his own family doesn’t
enjoy his footlighting much. He returned to
his suffering country by aeroplane after some
years of exile, during which he renounced the
throne several times and acquired amother
man’s wife. The objects of his return were
four, not including others in the background:
to remount the throne; to throw his nine-
year-old son off it; to eject his own dis-
reputable brother from the regency; and to
recapture his second divorced wife. His first
divorced wife was beyond recall, but the
second, a Greek princess, might lend respec-
tability to the position and make a good
hostess when the crowned heads of Europe
NATURAL HISTORY PROBLEMS.
“Mummy, has Uncle Bob always been as fat as he is?”
“Yes, dear. Uncle Bob has always been a big man.”
“Gee, Mummy, what a lot of storks it must have taken to bring him to grandmas!
dronned in. No difficulty was experienced
about the nominal recapture of the lady, a
Court being squared to decide that she had
never been divorced at all, by reason of legal
informalities. But she has so far refused
to be a compulsory queen, or to take any
notice of her shocking Carol, and it is
understood that if she is taken back to her
royal position it will only be after a scan-
dalous struggle in the course of which her
clothes will probably be torn to rags. All
this is bad for the restored respectability of
the palace at Bucharest, for the crowned
heads of Europe can hardly call with their
wives to see a queen who is tied to the throne
with string to prevent her breaking out in a
fresh place. A final happening is that Carol
has had a moral relapse, and that the grass
widow who was his companion in exile has
been installed in the palace, thinly disguised
as the Countess Smith, or something of the
sort. With this tearing up of the veil of
decorum the monarchesses of Europe, Asia,
Africa and America will probably cut the
Royal House dead. Opinion is divided as to
whether Caaol will be found a gory mass with
his throat cut, or whether lie will finish like
Augustus the Strong, who died beloved by
his subjects, leaving one legitimate son and
300 mixed sons and assorted daughters.
“Nakhoda”: The possibility of fliers
Matthews and Hook having fallen into the
sea between Akyab and Rangoon _ also in-
cludes the possibility of their having been
picked up by a craft which would certainly
not be equipped with wireless. Those waters
have from time immemorial been the habitat
of a race of sea gypsies of whom little is
known. Their origin is lost in the mists of
time, but they have affinities with the Mon-
gol and also with the aboriginal tribes of
the spine of the Malay Peninsula, who
never leave their mountain range. They
spend their lives from the cradle to a watery
grave on cranky fishing-boats and are in
the Stone Age of culture, using hooks of
bone and spears tipped with the same. On
one occasion our steamer succored a family
which had been blown out of its, suburb, so
to speak, and was in the last stages of
death from thirst. Paterfamilias offered us
a basket of fish, but as the hand that held
it up was deeply infected with leprosy the
gift was declined. The sea gypsies are a
mild race, and if they had the courage to
approach a sinking aeroplane would pro-
bably rescue the crew.
* * * *
“Sar’-Major” : Touching these hair-turned-
wliite-in-a-night stories, khaki must have been
a preventive. I’ve seen chaps blown up and
blown down, and bowled over and buried.
Some of them came out smiling, and some
came out gibbering, but I never saw one
come out white-haired. Nor did any other
Digger I know.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: When the enterprising bur-
glar goes a-burgling he sometimes shows a
vein of humor. A Sydney Sikes who burst
a safe in an outer-suburban shop pasted four
unemployment tax stamps on the despoiled
chest—thrippence in the pound on the
amount extracted. But his jocosity didn’t
carry him so far as to cancel the stamps.
Maybe he remembered that the evidence
supplied by a bit of handwriting, disguised
though it was, had helped to convict some
housebreakers who dallied to refresh them-
selves, find left a note thanking the victim
for the supper.
* * * *
“Huon” : When William Lanny, last man
of the Tas. abo. race, died at the Hobart
Hospital in 1869, there was a keen desire on
the part of anthropologists to obtain his
skull. Dr. W. L. Crowther, prominent in
politics then and thereafter, entered the
dissecting ward where reposed the precious
cranium, and depositing another skull on
the table he purloined the abo. relic, _ took
it away in his belltopper, and sent it to
the Royal College of Surgeons m London,
The substitution was soon discovered, and
there was a row in Parliament. Crowther
resigned his seat, but was soon re-elected,
and later became Premier. It was a case
where the interests of science rose paramount
to all other considerations,
* v * *
“Spare Corp.” : A soldier who got hurt
as a result of infringing army regs, was
due for punishment for “self-inflicted
wounds,” however innocent he was of inten-
tion to damage himself. Primarily the s.i.w.
regs. were intended to deal with the lead-
swinger who would rather make himself a
minor casualty than face the line; but they
had other victims. I was nearly one myself
when a spark from a dug-out fire spat out
and set going 16 charge-bags of 4.9 cordite,
It was a common practice of the Diggers,
strictly against regs., to gather any surplus
A FAIR COMPROMISE.
“Why didn’t you take coffee after dinner to-night, dear?”
“Look, I’ll go to the opera with you; hut I’m hanged if I’ll take anything to keep me
awake!”
cordite left in gun-positions, and to throw
handfuls on dug-out fires so that the fierce
heat would dry damp wood. This lot, flam-
ing up together, made the corrugated-iron-
lined dug-out like an extra-hot oven in a
second; likewise it burned me so much that
the skin bulged out on my arm and face
like crackling on a roast sucking-pig. I
kept the injuries as dark as possible and
carried on ; and I can pay a great tribute
to Australian lanoline.
* * * *
“Bildad”: I have a room littered with in-
ventions in various stages of progress and all
in need of financial assistance. One of the
most remarkable is the ante-dated suicide.
With the use of this affair, which I regret to
say isn't portable, being about the size of a
piano, the person whose gigantic fraud is
found out to-day may
shuffle off this mortal
coil last year, his inter-
mediate transactions be-
ing thus made null and
void. Then there is my
inverted typewriter re-
sembling a slug. Instead
of a loose sheet of paper
being put into the
machine the apparatus
turns itself upside down
and walks over the book,
making intelligent i*c-
marks as it goes. This
is a small matter, but it
is calculated to revolu-
tionise book-keeping
and also book-faking.
Another device, partly
developed but in urgent
want of capital, is for
the conveyance of heat in
pipes without it cooling
by the way. Thus
heat could be delivered,
still hot, at Polar and
other regions where it
would do good. A kin-
dred apparatus is for the
transmission of hatred by
wire. I don’t mean
hatred put into words
which are apt to be
actionable, but bulk loath-
ing which would be black
and creeping and en-
veloping, and wrap itself
mentally round the con-
signee like a smellful and
smothersome octopus.
It would evaporate,
of course, but it
would be renewable.
Something lighter, and
perhaps more desirable,
is my unfinished clock for the registration of
dreams with exact time and place recorded.
The best and most expensive variety will have
a stem-winder which will enable the vision
to be resumed where it left off and carried
to a legitimate conclusion.
H: Hs # *
“Avon”: Though they don’t talk about it,
many of the pioneer families of Canterbury
(M.L.) have lineages so long and so exalted
in source that they regard the Plantagenets
and Tudors as upstarts. The Welds —one
of them was Premier of M.L. in the early
days—trace their line back to the days of
King Harold. The Starkeys p-o one better.
They derive from King Alfred and the
Emperor Charlemagne. The wife of William
the Conqueror was one of thbir ancestors,
and the . Earls of Surrey and of Warwick
figure on their genealogical tree. Prof.
Arnold Wall, who has been delving into
these old family annals, declares that the
Starkeys, if they cared to take the trouble,
could follow their line back to the early
Kings of Wessex, in the period of the Hep-
tarchy, and further back still, to the days
when Wodin was d god of the Britons.
“’Adriter” : The selling of second-hand cars
taken in part-payment for new ones was an
important part of the business of a big
motor-importing firm for which I once
worked. My job was to write the advertis-
ing. Now the boss, strange as it may seem,
had a conscience. It was against his rule
to make any advertising statement that
wasn’t strictly true, and that cramped my
style a lot. However, there’s a way of set-
ting out the truth to advantage, as the old
chap taught me. There was one car which
we sold seven times over. It always came
back. It was made by a firm of world-wide
reputation, but it kept on going wrong, and
each purchaser, after spending £2O or £3O
with us for repairs, was glad to let us have
it back a«t any price we cared to offer. “This
isn’t good business,” declared the boss to me
when it came back on our hands for the
sixth time. “That blessed car is getting us
a blessed bad name. Now you get to work
an( ] a blessed good ad. on entirely new
lim , g that’H sell it so that it will stay sold.”
«j haven’t any ideas left on the subject,” I
declared bluntly. “Well, I have,” he snapped
( ]le was a Napoleonic man). “You just say
nboi it that car ‘Would interest engineers:
that’s new, and it’s true. Lord knows it
would interest a battalion of them to keep
the blasted—l mean blessed —thing run-
nin«-!”
* * * *
“Caraetacus”: Now that Assistant-Minister
f Ol . Customs Fordo is the head of a censoring
department, he should look to his own elec-
torate of Capricornia, where there is a creek
with a most blushful name. It is a fully-
established, legalised-by-common-usage name,
w ],ich figures in local and Lands Department
niaps, and when it comes up for discussion
b y residents, even in solemn shire-council
conclave, it gets its title in all its primitive
rawness. The local press, however, skims
cautiously over the hurdle by terming it
“The creek” or “ Greek.” It would
a( jd something to the gaiety of nations and
relieve sub-editors of anxiety if Mr. Forde
would decree that the water-course should
b(> gazet ted “Half-clothed Creek,” the
nearest equivalent to its ancient and dis-
honorable moniker.
* * * *
“Binduli”: It is perhaps a sign of the
times in Westralia that the special detective
staff that has been on the trail of gold-
stealers and -receivers for over 20 years is
t() be abolished. Most of the ill-gotten ore
came from the Golden Mile. The detectives
were men specially chosen for the strenuous
an( j dangerous work, and they did their duty
we n though convictions were always diffi-
C ult to get. Sergeant Jack Walsh, who went
to h} s death with P.-C. Pitman a few years
bacb . in the performance of liis duty, was
b ead of the staff for years; there never was
a more fearless and conscientious officer or
a less vindictive one. About the hardest
ma i e f ac tors to catch were those who ran
ba tt e ries or treatment plants to give their
ac ti v ities some appearance of legitimacy,
bu t t h e special staff at least made their busi-
nesg So hazardous that most of them were
lad t 0 t out of it>
& * * * *
“Chevroford”: Richmond (Yic.) council,
wMch already lias a street with two rules
ag p ass i n g 0 f trams, has set the
motorist a new ri ddle by making it compul-
gory tQ toot at all corn ers. As half the
churches in the district occupy corner sites,
drivers will be faced with the alternative
of being charged with (1) breaking the muni-
cipal regulation or (2) disturbing worship-
pers at their devotions. * *
“'. ' ,
Cine Ma : Sunday night pre-views are
beginning to take the place of grand opera
first-nights in Melbourne. They are a poor
substitute, but the best available at the
moment. At the pre-view of the fine British
talkie “Atlantic,” close on 4000 people were
accommodated m the State Theatre, and out-
side Flinders-street crepitated from end to
end with, the steely glitter of limousines.
Ecclesiastical circles are intensely agitated
over the new development, but under existing
law they can do nothing, since there is no
charge for admission. They might suggest
a short service before the picture starts, but
the fate of a similar proposal with regard to
Amy Johnson s arrival was not encouraging.
TRIOLETS OF TURBARY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TRIMMING.
My bugbear is trimming the edge,
Both stooping and shears make me sore,
Though it isn’t so bad with the hedge.
My bugbear is trimming the edge
With an ache in my back like a wedge
And blisters behind and before.
My bugbear is trimming the edge,
Both stooping and shears make me sore.
The Tantalisek.
I never could tolerate Jones,
Who scoffs when I’m weeding the path
In flippant and fatuous tones;
I never could tolerate Jones —
He borrows that mower Smith owns,
And won’t give his mongrel a bath!
I never could tolerate Jones,
Who scoffs when I’m weeding the path.
Tranquillity.
How lovely a bottle of beer
In a beaker of very thin glass,
As the bonny bright bubbles appear!
How lovely a bottle of beer,
All amber and brilliantly clear,
When I’ve finished with mowing the grass.
How lovely a bottle of beer
In a beaker of very thin glass!
N.S.W.
THE DOWNTRODDEN WORKER.


“Hamer” : Chinnery’s in Hunter-street has
joined the list of depai-ted Sydney rest-
aurants. Sargent’s bought the place years
ago, and have now shifted the branch they
established there. Cliinnery was a queer
character who had a* feud with a pugilist
of the period and pei-sisted in di-agging it
ixito the police court., The joint was famous
for fish, and the site was very nearly historic;
but Sydney i-estaxxi-ants seem unable to quite
establish roots in history. A multitude of them
whose names once were household words
have disappeared within my recollection—
Quong Tart’s, Comino’s, Bei'g’s, Walker’s,
the Trocadei-o (where a six-course meal with
wines could be had for 2s. 6d.), Roberts’s
and Holland House among others. It would
be reasonable to expect in a city like Sydney
at least a few eating-houses which go back
50 years, but not even Adams’s or Paris
House can make this claim, and they are
the two oldest remaining.
* * * *
“Fernie”: One of the oldest houses in
Lyttelton (M.L.) bore for many years a
reputation for being haunted. It was a
roomy place with attics, quite in the old
English style, and the timber and all the
littings had been sent out fx-om Englaixd
ready-cut, along with the plan, because in
those days there was a dearth of skilled
builders in the new Canterbury settlement.
It was a house of mysterious ixoises, parti-
cularly after nightfall. Ghostly footsteps
could bo heard on its narrow staircase;
thunderous knocks were delivered by some
unseen hand on its front door; there were
rappings, creakings and groanings every-
where. The original owners fled and tried
to rent the place, but for years it was
deserted. Then a family devoid of nerves
EVERY MAN TO HIS JOB.
“He said, ‘When am I going to get that money you owe me?’ and I said, ‘l’m an actor,
my boy, not a blinkin’ prophet.’”
and derisive of spooks leased it, and made
a joke of its eerie propensities. It was
when the old place had part of its roof
blown off in a gale and structural repairs
had to be done that the secret of the strange
noises was disclosed. The house was framed
in old oak—by the look of it the timber had
been raped from some house centuries old- —
and the rest of the wood, including floors
•ind w T eatherboarding, was deal that had not
been properly seasoned. Every little change
of temperature set up severe stresses, and
uak and pine both made audible protest.
* 4 * *
“Lao-dah”: The instruction to Chinese
herbalists in Australia to register themselves
with the Consulate-General is an odd illustra-
(ion of the prevailing reaction of the Orient
Laiiurt the West. In all parts of Asia it
lias become a national doctrine that Euro-
pean medicine is bad. Gandhi has announced
that if all English hospitals and doctors in
India were abolished and the people went
back to the ancient Vedic system of curing
there would be an immediate improvement
in the public health, though he did not
apply the principle to himself a few years
ago—he accepted the offices of a British
sui-geon then. The National Government of
China lately elevated the lxative doctor to
equal statxis with the foreign-trained. The
native’s methods include the diagnosis of
disease by feeling the pulse, of which there
are claimed to be eight kinds.
* * * *
“Murkali?: Awanui, the radio station
sentenced to be dis-
mantled (B. 2/7/’3O),
was extraordinarily
efficient. In the days
of spark transmission
its piercing piccolo-
note bridged 3500-mile
gaps in any direction.
The prime mover mea-
sured 40 kilowatts.
Now, of course, the
beam stations use less
than half that, while
mere amateurs think
nothing of exchanging
small talk across the
Tasman with less
power than would
warm an electric-iron.
But the Australian
Navy Department
cursed Awanui on
August 8, 1914, when
it put every ounce
behind a warning to
British ships that war
had broken out. Ger-
man operators who
intercepted the signal
tried to rebroadcast it.
A jambing programme
had been prepared fox-
such an eventuality,
and for days and
nights on end the re-
sultant hullabaloo —it
suggested a maniac
sawing tin—prevented
the Germans sending
the infoi-mation on,
though some enemy
ships took fright and
cleared to South American ports. Before
Awanui chipped in several German craft
had steamed innocently into Australian ports.
* * * *
“Fango”: If “Pawang” (B. 9/7/’3O) had
read more carefully the report of the Royal
Commission on the Bundaberg (Q.) tragedy
he would not have asserted that serum or
vaccine (he makes no distinction) “becomes
more potent if kept too long.” Sera do not
contain bacteria, and vaccines contain only
dead ones. The Bundaberg children did not
die as the result of anti-diphtheria serum or
even of the diphtheria bacillus, but from some
contaminating organism introduced at the
same time. In neither the Bunda*berg nor the
Lubeck case were the principles underlying
the treatment disproved, nor was the skill
of the medicoes at fault.
* * * *
“H.J.S.”: Sweden manufactures only beer,
eau de vie (a cheap kind of brandy), and
braunvin (a white brandy, like gin, made of
potatoes or rye). Cognac, whisky and wine
are imported. Wine is drunk very little; I
am sure 30 per cent, of Sweden’s population
has never tasted it. Beer is rarely drunk
except at meals. All selling of spirit (not
beer) is conducted at the State-owned shops.
Every man and unmarried woman p<ove 24
years of age can get a spirit-book
by showing (1) that all taxes for
the last three years are paid; (2)
a* certificate that he or she is of good
behavior and has fulfilled his or her obliga-
tions towards relatives. On that book can
be bought from one to four litres (= \ to
1 gal.) per month of spirit, according to his
or her income. Wine can be had in reason-
able quantities every month besides tha>t. If
the owner of a book (1) is taken in custody
by the police under the influence of liquor,
(2) treats relatives or others badly when
drunk, or (3) lends out his book for the
benefit of someone else, he loses his book, and
will have difficulty in getting a new one for
the next 10 years. At. a restaurant you are
entitled to a quarter-pint of the same weak
spirit after a meal valued at not less than
Is. 6d. If you want more you can just walk
out and in again, eat a new meal for Is. 6d.
and have another.
“Chevroford”: Conan Doyle suffered many
vicissitudes in the course of his excursion
into spiritism. A year or two ago a leading
. . .. . .
American newspaper editor travelled speci-
ally to England to inquire into psychic
claims, and Doyle staged a seance in his
own home. The journalist and other guests
were invited to hold each other’s hands
while the medium—a woman—sat in the
centre of the circle bound to a chair, a
trumpet being just out of her reach. After
the electrics were turned out, the trumpet,
palely illuminated with a light not of this
world, proceeded to make a tour of the ring,
THE INCORRIGIBLE.
“You’re a naughty, worrying little girl and I’m tired of smacking you. I’m going to
get daddie to do it.”
“Yes, Mummy, but what will you do when daddie gets tired?”
tapping each person in turn and occasionally
letting out a note. All went well until the
instrument came opposite the American,
Dropping his neighbor’s, hand, he made a
grab at the darkness behind and closed on a
very unspiritual arm. In the subsequent
controversy Doyle accused his visitor of
behavior unbecoming a gentleman. . The
newspaper man retorted that .he had just as
much right to expose a spiritualistic fraud
as to tell his host that he had found one of
the guests cheating at cards. *
* * * ‘
“Roadhogski”: Queer happenings? One
recorded in the oversea cables would be hard
to beat. A Russian prince named Obolensky
(a young man with the same label was. in
Australia a few years ago) was motoring
with a lady friend at Nice in the early hours
of the morning. The car turned, over, pin-
ning them down. When it capsized, some-
thins: pressed the horn button, which set
tip a continuous hooting. The inhabitants
of the locality turned out in force with
murder in their hearts, but found there was
no necessity to go so far—the spill had
killed both of them.
*** • * t
“Recorder”: The divorce suit of R. C. N.
Walker, a wealthy vigneron (the wife filed a
cross-petition), has broken all Adelaide
records for duration and expense. There
w r ere six counsel, including the two leading
silks. Cleland and Villeneuve Smith, and the
hearing occupied 39 sitting days; the evidence
exceeded 1009 typewritten pages kef°i’e
jVlurrEy, reserved
will total £6OOO. In other days it would
have furnished furlongs of copy for the
underclothing press, but South Aus. has a
stiff new Evidence Publication Act now.
* * * *
“Feng'-Shui”: Last year the British and
Foreign Bible Society disposed of over 12
million copies of Holy Writ, a record for
126 years. Nearly seven millions went to
China. A noble achievement, and yet I
can’t help remembering that the Taiping
rebellion, the most destructive outbreak
which has ever occurred in history, was
started by a Bible student, and it is on the
cards that Feng Yu-hsiang, the C ris lan
marshal, may go the same way. I was
present when one of his lieutenants very
efficiently looted a Chinese town. There is
a standing order in Feng’s army that every
soldier shall carry a Bible in his pack.
4 4 # «
“Hamer” - The manners of Sydney darnce-
’alls are not what they used to be. In the
“gents-a-bob-ladies-invited” days it was a
deadly affront for a strange bloke to dance
with a tart another bloke had brought. The
offended cavalier promptly gathered his mob,
and the affair of honor was settled outside
with fists and bottles. Now ladies are no
longer invited • they generally insist on pay-
in°-° their own footing, and “tapping” is a
recognised custom Worse still, a tapper
who was recently stoushed by the lady’s
gentleman friend invoked the aid of the police
instead of the push; and the stousher, on
beino- fined, carried the case to an appeal
court where, incidentally, the conviction was
nnashed Yes, the days of push chivalry are
j j *
al ' # 4 4 *
“Machete”: Hitherto I have subscribed to
u f ' hv musical comedv and
u e f (hat the Englishman is lacking
Hollywood , that the
not Brown son, who was born within
not so suit. _ mvself, an
sound of B _. * docks and when
ard the the other day I couldn’t
SiS telling him I’d just picked tip a beauty,
“So have I,” he said. “But mine’s old Eng-
lisli,” I bragged. “Plays the W estminster
chimes at the. hour. Can joins r o t lat.
No-o, he sighed. Mine must be Aus-
traiian-made—it only strikes.”
* * * *
“Jeremy”: Conan Doyle used to corn-
plain because his Sherlock Holmes stories
obscured works which he rated more highly,
such as “The White Company” and “Briga-
dier Gerard.” Novelists. are like that,
At a civic reception to Rider Haggard the
Mayor of Perth, wishing to pay the guest
a pleasant compliment and to show fami-
liarity with his works, suggested that there
was a fine field for another “King Solo-
moil’s Mines” on the Westralian goldfields,
and received a rather pointed snub for his
pains. Haggard just then wanted to b->
regarded as an authority on agriculture and
Empire migration,
* * * *
“Mainbrace”: The Minister of Defend'
f or the Commonwealth of Barataria was pay-
jnn- hm first visit to one of liis country’s few
remaining warships. A member of a political
party which insists on regarding everyone
likely to vote for it as a comrade, he exuded
affability. Though the sidesmen standing at
attention on each side of the gangway were
still as wooden images, lie insisted on shaking
their hands. That done, he ambled along to
meet the official appointed to receive him—
and omitted the immemorial tradition of
saluting the Quarter Deck by dipping his lid.
4 * * *
, , . , .. .
Pontiac : All that most Australians know
about Captain Cook is that he landed at
Botany Bay, and was later eaten by eanni-
bals. The unveiling of a memorial to Wolfe,
who won Canada from the French in the
famous battle on the Heights of Abraham,
has called attention to a Cook exploit scarcely
less important in its consequences. This was
the mariner’s sounding and charting of the
St. Lawrence before the attack, a perform-
ance which greatly contributed to Wolfe’s
surprise of Montcalm,
* * * *
“Heyden”: Extract from the “Sydney
Amni q “nrhn ctr Dpt
(*a-ette or Apnl 8, 18-b. ini. lirst stiee.
lamp that we have ever had in Australia
was last night lighted up in Macquarie-
place. We hope that in 12 months more
the highly picturesque situation of the Aus-
tralian metropolis will be rendered still more
so by the pure and steady brilliancy of gas-
light; for supplying which our Colonial
Coal Mines and the circumjacent Whale
Fisheries will supply ample materials.” . I
wonder if anyone knows the exact location
of that first street lamp,
*■*.**
“Whitehall”: E. P. Walker, a Sydney
gf-ockbroker, has been complaining that “Aus-
.’ ... , „ .
tralians give their own country a fearfut
reputation in Ceylon.” A good many do, but
without exception they are palpable asses,
and almost without exception they are (1)
asses who are on their way to England for
the first time, or (2) asses who are staying
m Ceylon for the first time It is the out-
come of a pathetic misconception. Ceylon and
all London-bound mail steamers are full of
those Britons who like Australians least-
genteel, rather indigent.nobodies from minor
schools, with a provincial, reverence for
accents and clothes Australians of the type
criticised by Mr. Walker think to impress
these irreconcilably hostile strangers by
sneering at Australia. Of course it doesn t
go down for a minute. Their new acquaint-
ances.bave no objection to Australia; the
objection is to them. When the Australian
deriders of Australia grasp the situation,
which they usually do by Port baid or
earlier, they are liable to become pests ol
another description. They develop suddenly
into roaring patriots, drop trying to be
retained, exaggerate the national accent, and
brag about Australia till the rest of the Aus-
tralian passengers feel like murdering them.
Englan(J to Australia
has many representatives oLthis clan. That
is, as far as Ceylon, After Ceylon 90 pei
cent, of the passengers are Australian, and
there is no further need for demonstrations
which arise from acute inferiority complexes.
THE PERFECT DEB.
[FRO THE BULLETIN.]
“The picture shows the ideal debutante—with the
eyes of a startled fawn.” —London paper.
Painters, who covet praise and spurn not
pelf,
Be careful lest you lavish all yoixr art
To show your subject like the sitter’s self.
Some should be left to emphasise the, part,
The role of him (or her) to indicate
By touches deftly thought and subtly
drawn.
And what cau debs.> so clearly postulate
As eyes suggestive of a startled fawn?
Your clerics pale ascetics you may show
Or Friar Tucks, it matters little which;
Your Midases be divei-se, for, you know.
There’s fifty diff’rent ways of looking rich;
Your politicians in all shapes be framed
And run as easily to brow as brawn;
But debs., if they’d be true to life acclaimed,
Must wear some semblance of a startled
fawn.
Your men of law may breathe of wisdom
ripe
And grave, or merely of acumen keen;
Doctors, again, are never cut to type,
And Uni. pundits may be stout or lean.
Such differ like the pieces do at chess,
Bishop from knight, or stui’dy rook from
pawn,
But artists fain the perfect deb. to stress
Should make her eyes recall a stai-tled
fawn.
Limners of beauty, if you knoxv the ropes,
For inspiration turn to antelopes
Awaking timidly at dewy dawns.
Bethink how hardly old tradition dies,
And always give your debutantes the eyes
Of faintly scared gazelles or startled
fawns.
N.s.w.
IFORD.


BRUCE AND DISTRESS
SCULLIN AND PROSPERITY.
ELECT US AND
WE WILL SETTLE
gffi COAL STRIKE
VOTE LABOR
NO UN^Mpik-|rMENT
RELATIVE VALUE OF VOTES AND POUNDS.
“The plain, straight, honest thing is for Mr. E. G. Theodore to go into the witness-box, where his demeanor can be observed.
The integrity of Mr. Justice Campbell is undoubted in this State Any attempt of any official body to ‘whitewash’ Mr.
Theodore will not meet, with the approval of this journal. It is for Mr. Theodore to exculpate himself.” —Sydney “Labor Daily.”
“Well, you are a nice crowd, you are! I robbed you of your votes and you never said a word, but now somebody accuses
me of robbing you of a few pounds and you’re ready to raise Hell’s delight if I don’t prove myself innocent.”
Business, Robbery, etc.
Comparison of wool exports for the 11
months from July 1, 1929, to May 31, 1930,
is not comforting, the decrease being 408,0751
bales. Such a* good customer as Japan was
over 100,000 bales shy on the previous year’s
purchase. The U.S.A. cut its purchase
down from 63,471 bales to 7342.
* * *
The Australian allowed a Golconda to
slip through his fingers when he let out-
siders into the whaling trade at his very
doors. Professor W. J. Dakin, of Sydney
Uni., told an audience the other night that
close on ten million pounds’ worth of oil had
been, cleaned up in Antarctic waters for the
1929-30 season alone. The stuff nets about
£25 per ton, the average good whale cashing
in about £3OO.
* X & Ms
The recently published report of the Leip-
sic Fur Exposition asserts that, while the
rabbit easily leads all “fur-bearing” animals
in the world’s markets with 200 million skins
sold yearly, the sheep is second with a tally
of 26 millions. The rating of Australia’s
good friend the jumbuck as a “fur-bearer”
strikes an unusual note. It is probably
quite correct, but it would have been a
hardy wight who would have dared to refer
to sheep’s “fur” on Sydney Agricultural
Ground a week or so back.
x x * x
The Moreton Bay pulled out of the Der-
went the other day with the last cargo of
this season’s Tasmanian overseas fruit ship-
ments. Apples' and pears sent to the other
hemisphere have totalled 2,731,014 bushels.
This is not quite the Tasmanian record
(2,804,000 in 1928), but as the fruit this year
is free of bitter-pit and codlin-moth and has
been boxed more attractively than ever before,
the aggregate return ought to break all
records, even though Covent Garden prices
for early shipments are reported to be only
moderate. There is rather disquieting news
cabled in regard to the Hamburg market,
wiiere prices, reflecting continental economic
depression, are anything but cheering to Aus-
tralian orchardists. Forty-two big ships were
needed to lift the Speck’s 2f million bushels.
The fruit, barring some 400,000 cases from
the Tamar, was all grown in the southern
part of the island, mainly in the Huon and
Derwent districts. H'alf a million cases have
been marketed in Sydney and other mainland
centres, and it is estimated that at least
300,000 more are held in local cold storage.
x * M- x
A Ballarat boot-factory the other day com-
plained in a circular that retailers were not
pushing the factory’s goods and threatened
to start a shop or shops of its own. But why
don’t manufacturers push their own goods?
Their American competitors do; they don’t
leave “publicity” to the retailer. They go in
for nation-wide advertising campaigns; they
have travellers out among the retailers talk-
ing their wares even when they book orders
for supply only through wholesale houses.
The manufacturer who expects the retailer to
push his lines to the limit and create a
market where no market exists may know 7
how to make things, but he doesn’t know 7 how 7
to sell them.
* x x x
Many car- and more truck-drivers find
that their heaviest item apart from the
bowser bill is tyre repair and replacement.
But there’s a man in Victoria whose lorry
is a two-ton Ford fitted four years ago with
a set of Dunlop tyres, and who, though
40,000 miles have been covered under solid
loads, has never had a puncture! Front
wheel tyres are 30in. x Sin. and back wheel
32in. x 6in.
Ms x * x
A man turning into a Sydney garage the
other day bumped a standing ear, which
bumped another which bumped a third. All
four cars were damaged. The garage-owner
advised his customer to go straight to his
insurance people and ask them to send a man
to inspect before a thing was moved, other-
wise it might be hard work to convince them.
He was back in about 25 minutes. “AH
mine,” he said, his hand sweeping in the
wreckage. Then he explained that his policy
was in one of the offices in liquidation and
hopelessly broke. Moral: As soon as you’ve
got doubts about any co. that has insured
you, either clear up the doubts or clear out
the policy. Don’t wait to hear the result of
a liquidation—take out another policy in
another office. In this case failure to do so
cost the man £3B.
X Ms .Ms X
Some traders are burning joss-sticks for
the “rationing” which has seized almost
hypnotically the fancy of the Commonwealth.
One of the big problems of retail business
has been the see-saw of rush and slump.
A look into any store will disclose periods
w 7 hen a machine-gun fired down the aisles
would not hit so much as a shopwalker or
house detective. Another peep at another
period would show a m6l€e of sweating, agi-
tated employees and a sea of struggling cus-
tomers. The store has to carry staff enough
to stem the peak tide, but two-thirds (per-
haps fewer) assistants would serve for
average demand. Rationing of employment
ingeniously meets this problem. Staffs can
be reduced for the hours when trade is
slack; increased when the rush time comes.
This “spread” is already being practised.
Hands are being stood down for slack morn-
ing hours, half-days and the like, and
brought back when a battalion of assistants
is required to handle pay-night, bargain-
sale and similar peak periods. “Nine to
ten” specials, “Mondays only” bargains—all
sorts of lures are used in attempts to pre-
serve an average, but they are cumbersome
compared with the slick certainty of the
well-managed “ration.”
m= * * x
“Smilax” : Picked up a box of matches the
other day. One side bore the proud device:
“Buy Australian Goods.'’ On the other was
the legend: “Made in Sweden.”
x x x x
_ An English Judge has just made a deci-
sion which carries a lot of interest for the
underwriting trade. Mrs. Payne reported to
the insurers the loss of a pearl necklace
insured for £6OO, and was presently- given
authority to order £6OO worth of jewels to
replace the others. Some time later the
lady found the necklace in the sleeve of one
of her evening coats. The insurers there-
upon demanded the return of the jewellery
ordered to replace it. Mrs. Payne, prefer-
ring her new gauds to the old, refused to
give them back, and told the applicants they
could take the necklace in lieu. The Judge
found for the lady.
* * * *
“El Marinero”: “Huon” (B. 25/6/’3O),
regarding the Speck’s mosquito fleet, says the
Kassa ended her days by climbing on a rock
in Bass Strait. No, she. was floated off and
finally made a hole in the water off the South
African coa<st and took all hands with her.
x X X X
From a correspondent in China:—
Saigon holds quite good opportunities for Aus-
tralian produce. At present a certain amount of
Australian flour is imported there, but the greater
part is American, and that should not be. They
would take fruits and jams and sauces, too, if
properly presented.
x x * x
A casein mixture called “kapa,” manufac-
tured Jjy the Milk Industries, Ltd., in some
N.S.W. North .Coast towns, is being used
by dairy-farmers instead of whitewash for
their bails and dairies. As it can be got
in various shades it also serves for painting-
walls and ceilings of homes. A country hos-
pital has lately been brightened with this
cold-water pa-int.
x * $ *
“Si Anu”: Any Australian who prefers the
canned goods of China to those of his own
should see how the job is done on the
spot. Public-spirited manufacturers exist,
but their model factories stand alongside
dozens of the old school. Most goods are
canned in poky, ill-ventilated little holes.
The cans are badly constructed, seldom of
standard size and the numerous holes may
or not be closed with solder. Much of the
tin used is metal discarded by European tin-
plate manufacturers hecause of some fault
and sold at a reduced price. The plate fre-
quently contains untinned areas which are
liable to set up injurious chemical action,
disastrous to the human stomach. Add to all
this that the Chinese employer feels no par-
ticular prejudice towards disease amongst
his staff. 1 gave a native contractor a job
of work to do in my house, and he thought
me unreasonable because I objected to the
presence of a leper in his gang.
M= Ms * Ms
Donovan Joynt, who runs a color-photo-
graphy business -in Melbourne, was given
the toughest job of his career recently. H’e
was commissioned to photograph the
immense classic frescoes with which Digger
Napier Waller decorated the new Town
Hall. There are two ways of getting at
them —to stand at the top of a 60-foot
ladder or swing from one of the chande-
liers, which can be lowered for the purpose.
At time of writing, Joynt, who gained the
V.C. for attacking and annihilating a
German machine-gun crew under a wither-
ing fire, was still considering the matter.
Ms Ms * S
Maoriland will be importing Australian
wheat to the tune of at least 2,500,000
bushels this year. Final threshing returns
show that the Dominion’s harvest fell just
short of six million bushels, and as last
year’s harvest was just about adequate to
local requirements (5,800,000 bushels) there
is not much of a carry-over in store. Yield
per acre in the latest harvest was the lowest
for five years—3l.l4 bushels. Too much
rain is blamed.
* * * *
“Sar’ Major”: I can cap “The Ghoul’s”
testimony as to the durability of A.I.F.
clobber. I’m still wearing a tunic that was
issued to me in Weymouth in T 9. It dwelt
in mothballs for a couple of years (in readi-
ness for the next war), but since then has
been worn daily, and looks game for as much
again. And mine is no light job. I’m cow-
cockying.
* * * *
“Mundowie”: In district matches many
of the cricketers *of Goulburn, Collector, Bun-
gonia and neighboring towns use bats made
of locally-grown willow. The w 7 ood at first
is a little on the heavy side, perhaps through
lack of expert seasoning, but improves with
use and age, and lias all the spring of the
English willow. The trees grow abundantly
along the rivers, and in these districts alone
there are enough to establish an industry
that ought to appeal to all Australian sports-
men. Englishman A. C. Maclaren, while
touring here, told umpire Crockett that this
country looked as if it could grow good wil-
lows, and, acting on the suggestion, Bill
Howell brought some bat-willow roots with
him from England. They were planted by
Crockett at Daylesford (Vic.), where they
grew quickly. Bat-making isn’t much- of
an industry yet; but give it time.
Ms * ms *
How Australia hates thrift! From the
class-conscious Domain orator to the Gov-
ernment Taxation Department, all frown
upon the man op woman who saves rather
than spends. Reports have lately appeared
of two remarkable dismissals of wa*ge-
earners. A middle-aged worker couple, by
dint of hard saving Over years, put enough
by to enable the wife to go to Scotland to
see her old mother. She had hardly sailed
when the husband was sacked on the ground
that if his wife could a*fford to take such a
trip he could afford to let a poorer man take
his job. The wife will come back to find
her man unemployed and probably unemploy-
able owing to his years. In another case
the couple lived in a lonely part, and in
order to give the wife a little pleasure they
paid a deposit on a car. Again the husband,
on the premise that a ; man who could run a
car hardly needed full-time work, w T as put
on the “ration.” He had to relinquish the
car, including the deposit, that his house
instalments might be maintained. Both
couples had committed the sin of hoarding
a little instead of spending all. Had they
gone on the baby clinic from birth, the
soup kitchen in childhood, the mission in
youth, the ponies and the Casket in adult-
age, and the benevolent society until pen-
sion age, public and private benefaction
would have fought to lend them a helping
ha*nd; Parliaments would have passed acts
on their behalf, and the Domn<in would have
put them on a pedestal as the. perfection of
democracy. But they had been self-reliant!
For them the boot!


Landed before
new tariff
was
imposed.
HR
Very heavily silver-plated on
special hard white metal
Entree Dish of distinctive
design. Removable handle.
British manufacture.
66/
Very Special Value
English-made
Entree Dish
The Entree Dish illustrated is
very heavily silver-plated on
hard white metal, finished by
expert craftsmen, and possessing
that quality that ensures long
satisfactory wear. Since this
shipment of Entree Dishes was
landed before the new tariff came
into force, the price quoted
represents unusually keen value.
We advise early selection.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS, LTD.,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
' V
Australia’s Leading Power Belting.
MANGROVITE WATERPROOF
LEATHER OR RAWHIDE
BELTING
There is a Mangrovite Belt for every power
transmission purpose, capable of giving
the utmost in efficient service, on the
most economical basis.
Every Mangrovite Belt is a product of
over 50 years’ experience, and is guaran-
teed. Practical engineers service every
Mangrovite installation.
Consult us regarding your transmission
problems. Expert advice without obliga-
tion,.
MAN GRO VITE BELTING, LTD.
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing' Director,
49 York Street, (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Ernest Giles, explorer, has at last been
commemorated by a cairn at far-northern
Beltana. He put a lot of unknown
country on the map about 60 years ago; iu
LEN B. BOLTON, president of the W.A.
Chamber of Manufactures, who was
one of the delegation which lately pul
up a good fight for a gold bonus.
Queensland, west of the Darling, about Lake
Eyre, and in the then unknown desert from
S.A. to Westralia. His \ early expeditions
were financed by Yon Mueller and other Vic-
torians; his later ones, with camels, by
Thomas Elder, of Adelaide. Giles lived to
see the Westralian goldfields opened up, and
died at Coolgardie in 1897.
“C. 0.”: I enter Warrant-Officer Watson,
6th Artillery Brigade, for the M.M. eompeti-
tion. An Adelaide boy of 21 when the war
started, he won the medal with two bars and
a D.C.M. —the best record in the Australian
artillery.
The late Conan Doyle, in a reminiscent
article he once published about his. early
days, speculated upon whether he mightn’t
have been served with half a dozen collars
or a few pairs of socks by an even more
distinguished man of letters in-the-making,
H. G. Wells. Doyle practised as a doctor
at Southsea from ’B2 to ’9O, during which
period Wells was acquiring, as a young
assistant in drapers’ and outfitters’ shops
at this and other south of England seaside
resorts, the experiences which were presently
to enrich the pages of “Kipps” and “Mr.
Polly.” Doyle’s first book was published
in ’B7; Wells’s in ’95.
“2nd Divvy’s” estimate :
I first met the late Bishop Long in Bathurst after
he took up the crook laid down by the well-loved and
deafening Camidge.
Long was very
different from his
predecessor, being
large, young,
vigorous, square-
jawed, ambitious
and an organiser
with a shrewd idea
of the uses of
publicity.
I met him again
at Querrieu on the
Amiens - Bapaume
road in the summer
of 1918. The war
was known to be
won by then, and
he was hard at
work on Birdwood's
(or as some said,
Brudenell White’s)
scheme to fit the
Diggers education-
ally for their im-
pending return to
civilian life. He
hadn’t changed in
a p p e a ranee or
manner; he was
one of those tall,
dark, hirsute active
men who change
very little between
SO and 60 and die
standing up. The
educational scheme
petered out (killed
by demobilisation,
chiefly), and with-
in nine months the
Bishop was back
in Bathurst. There
BISHOP LONG, of
Newcastle.
must have been plenty of spirituality behind hia
rugged unelerical features, and he certainly had a
passionate love for his church. But he was above
all a business man.
Harry F. Westbrook, just dead in Mel-
bourne, claimed to be the Speck’s oldest
native. His father (Sam Westbrook) and
his uncle (James) were the first civilian
doctors in Hobart, where he was born in
Nov., 1816. He was a pioneer cricketer as
long ago as Governor Arthur’s time and a
member of the old Hobart Town club, the
first of its kind in Australia. A brother-in-
law, Joseph Downward, was superintendent
of the Port Arthur prison hospital. West-
brook spent most of his life sheep-farming,
retiring and crossing to live in Melbourne
about 19 years ago.
The cremation in California of the
remains of Maui Pomare has caused a wa*ve
of indignation among the Maoris. When
Parliamentary tributes were being paid to
the dead man, Apirana Ngata* and other
Maori members stated that arrangements
were being made to have the body brought
home for burial. The organisation of a
tangi—which is similar to, but, in the. case
of. a chief, a lot more dignified than an
Irish wake—-was put in hand forthwith, the
presence of the corpse being unessential; but
it was cancelled immediately the news of the
cremation was received. That the remains
of any Maori, let alone a rangatira of
Pomare’s standing, should be burned is a
violation of all Maori traditions.
Both Ward and Seddon had soft places in
their hearts for Melbourne, because of their
early associations with it. Emerald Hill
(S. Melb.) was Ward’s birthplace, and a
station on the Williamstbwn line is called
after Seddon.
From London—
A. P. Herbert, of “Punch,” who is doing the dia-
logue of a talkie for a pair of sailor-Australians, is
one of the oddest bundles of contradictions living.
He passes an uneventful family man’s existence in
Hammersmith, but is a seaman-adventurer at heart,
as his writings show. He is a bitter anti-Laborite
politically. Yet he is conspicuously democratic, and
as an active member of his local Darts Club he
has many personal friends amongst the workers. He
is a tall, spare, long-nosed, sad-looking young man,
but he is London’s wittiest speaker, and travelled
Americans agree that they have no one as funny in
the U.S.A. Though a humorous writer by trade,
he produced the most touching of all war books—
“ The Secret Battle.” He was an Exhibitioner of
Winchester (the most exclusive of England’s public
schools) and of New (Oxford’s most exclusive col-
lege), and his origins are aristocratic, yet he is the
world’s leading exponent of the delights of pubs
and bar parlors.
Holman, K.C., must feel lonely when he
counts up the survivors of N.S.W.’s first
Labor Ministry of 1910. Jim McGowen, his
leader (Holman was his deputy and Attor-
ney-General), Dacey, Donald Macdonell,
Fred Flowers, Lou Trefle —all have gone over
the hill; and Niels Nielsen, the very capable
Lands expert of the crowd, followed them
last . week. Nielsen, as a matter of fact,
didn’t last long in the Ministry; there was
a sudden disappearance, and room was thus
made for George Beeby, nowadays the
Federal Arbitration Judge. The only sur-
vivor of the original team, besides Holman,
is Arthur Griffith. Nielsen went to the
U.S.A., was N. S. Wales representative there
for a while, and later wandered back. But
he never recovered his punch, and for some
time past he was a works ganger at the Zoo.
His name is preserved in Nielsen Park on the
south side of the harbor and in Nielsen
Lookout on the north side.
Niels Nielsen, who died last week, was
one of the McGowcn-Holman Ministers
under whom the Sydney Zoo was begun; it
was he who let the old Zoological Society
have part of Ashton Park, and so it was
to the Zoo .he went for a job when hard
times hit him. The story of how the Zoo
in its present form was begun is part of
the history of the Holman Government;
it was . Fred Flowers who struck the idea
of putting the unemployed (who were mak-
ing too much noise for the comfort of a
Labor. Government) on to this handy con-
struction job. Flowers was rewarded with
the chairmanship when trustees were
appointed to succeed the old Zoological
Society. The name of Flowers has been
given to the new aquarium; Nielsen’s name
is preserved in a look-out just outside the
Zoo ground.
The death of George Donald recalls that
he had an accidental colleague when he
reached the N. S. Wales Assembly in 1891.
Donald, a contractor, who had settled at
Lithgow, was the Freetrade candidate for
Hartley; the selected Labor candidate, a
parson, fell sick at the last moment and a
young check-weigher named Joe Cook was
put up instead: Joe was one of the sick
parson’s most persuasive “local preachers.”
The young man won a seat, and held on to
it; but his colleague, Donald, had only the
one innings. Donald, by the way, was father
of that ex-Sydney, journalist who made a
great name for Himself in China.
Harry Allan, former Under-See. for Lands,
Vic., who passed out last week at 67, began
as a junior at the Sale (Gippsland) branch
of the department, and climbed to the top.
He is remembered not only as a thoroughly
capable officer but as one who pluckily stood
up for service rights in the old Kyabrama-
pootra retrenchment period when Irvine and
Sbiels held sway. Outside office hours,
the Albert Park, St. Kilda foreshore and
Mount Dandenong Park were Allan’s hob-
bies ; he was an active member of the con-
trolling bodies of each.
Samuel Perry, engineer and ironmaster,
lately dead in Adelaide, left over £140,000.
About £lO.OOO goes to charities, including
an unusually broadminded “seaside rest-home
for ministers of the gospel, irrespective of
denomination.”
Hardly any of the Westralian secession-
talkers whose
public life goes
back for 30
years were not
strenuous advo-
cates of Federa-
tion when pub-
lic opinion
forced Bigjohn
Forrest to sub-
mit the question
to the people.
There is one
rather notable
exception, how-
ever, in ex-Min-
ister Johnny
Drew, who has
had a seat in
every Labor
Cabinet. In
1900 Drew was
one of four pro-
vincial news-
paper editors
who gave evi-
dence before a
commission as to
the effects they
anticipated that
Federation
would have on
the welfare of
ROSS THOMAS, the
new Director of Educa-
tion in N.S. Wales.
the isolated colony; and he was the only one
of the four who was uncompromisingly
hostile.
General Von Bernardi, dead in Germany at
80, was a prophet who had no honor out-
side his own country. He fought in the
Franco-Prussian war, was for long a member
of the German General Staff, and obviously
knew what he was talking about when lie
outlined the coming German attack on Bel-
gium and France in his “Germany and the
Next War,” published in 1912. How on
earth the German authorities ever permitted
this frank revelation is a mystery, but there
must have been an ulterior purpose, for
Bernardi was not disciplined, but given high
command on both Eastern and Western
fronts when his tips came off.
With the passing of Joseph Ward the
world loses one of its few great post-
masters. That was his pet office, though he
was twice Premier and was recognised as a
remarkably astute financier, and perhaps his
best monument
is a postal, tele-
graphic and tele-
phonic service
in which effici-
cn c y is the
watchword and
which, although
its rates are
lower than those
of any other
country in the
Southern Hemi-
sphere, makes
each year a sub-
stantial profit.
Ward fought for
universal penny
postage through-
out his public
life. His inter-
est is perhaps
explained by the
fact that li(!
started work at
13 as a telegraph
messenger. The
burden that
killed S ed d o n
and Massey
after 13 years
of Premiership
apiece sat more
lightly on Ward,
who passed out
at the ' 74tli
milestone after
Baronet JOSEPH
WARD, of Maoriland,
who died last week after
a long illness.
a longer Minis-
terial career than either of them —25 years
in office, to be precise. He made Dominion
history when, off his own bat, he presented
Mother with a battle-cruiser, and a somewhat
dazed Parliament endorsed the p.n.
James Thomas Wilson, Professor of Ana-
tomy at Cambridge since 1920, who has
returned to Australia on a brief visit, was
the most popular medical professor Sydney
Uni. ever had. He was Challis Professor ol
Anatomy for 30 years before England recap-
tured him. “Jimmy,” as he was always
known, quiet, modest and shrinking from ail
publicity, was a neat foil to Anderson Stuart,
the forceful and spectacular. A great friend-
ship sprung up between the brilliant young
Hunter and Wilson, and it was the latter
who eventually urged Hunter’s claims to
such effect that the Senate took the unpre-
cedented step of making him a professor at
the age of 24. The elder man expected thy
greatest things from Hunter and his friend s
premature death was a staggering blow to
him. Wilson was born in Dumfriesshire.
Scotland, 69 years ago. He was chief censor
in Sydney during the first year of the war.
“D.”: The late Conan Doyle was much
more than a popular novelist and the creator
of Sherlock Holmes. As a strenuous fighter
for unpopular causes he did more for the
cause of justice than many Judges. He had
an uncanny knack of seeing through fallacies.
He was the first public man in England to
come out with a definite statement that
Adolf Beck had been wrongly convicted.
(Beck served a long sentence for frauds on
women, for which he was compensated by the
Crown, and is the classic example of the danger
of convicting oil identification evidence.)
Doyle was for a long time the only believer
in the innocence of an Indian, Edalji, who
had been convicted of a series of cattle-
maiming outrages in England, and he proved
to be right. He was also chiefly responsible
for the retrial of Oscar Slater, wrongly
convicted of murder. In between these
activities he sandwiched a series of deadly
attacks on the work of the Belgians in tin-
Congo, hundreds of battles with opponents of
spiritualism, and arguments about a score
of things. There has been no writer in
modern times with anything approaching his
combativeness.
Speculation is rife in Maoriland concern-
ing the reasons for the sudden resignation
of the Commissioner of Police, W. B.
Mcllvery. He is two years off the retiring
age—6s—and has been in the force for
37 years. In his first two years as a junior
constable luck ca-me his way in the shape of
the Deans baby-farming case and a murder
case at Gore, both of which he handled so
capably that he was transferred to the
detective office. As Chief Detective in Wel-
lington, he made many journeys abroad in
connection with extradition duty. He has
been Commissioner for four and a half years.
PAY—PAY—PAT!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When you’ve hummed what you remember of
“Advance Australia Fair,”
My five-meal men of Kipling’s Golden
South,
Kindly scrutinise the Budget, and you’ll find
material there
For some whistling exercises from your
mouth.
There are blows to make you stagger, but
it’s needless to relate
We must take our politicians as we find
them,
And they aim to square the ledger and
they’re out to clear the slate
Which (they say) their predecessors left
behind them.
Rag-men, swagmen, cockies and squatter
kings,
Parsons and Balmain publicans, drivers of
Ghev. or dray,
Fresh demands on all from those who pull
the Treasury strings,
Dredge your pockets for Scullin’s sake,
and pay—pay —pay!
When you’ve thrilled at Bradman’s prowess
and enthused o’er Grimmett’s deeds,
To breathless crowds across the radio
borne,
You’ll find a wicket nearer home that’s
trickier than Leeds,
A pitch that never looked more bare and
worn.
When the Tariff and the Budget have the
purposes fulfilled
Of the amiable gentry who designed them,
It’s odds, whatever trade is hit or industry
is killed,
There’ll be nothing taxable they’ve left
behind them.
Queer Street — Dear Street—more for what-
ever you wear
Or eat or drink, and an extra bit on the
letter you send away.
Stiff as a crutch, our Commonwealth, and
the Canberra cupboard’s bare.
Down in your stocking for Scullin’s sake,
and pay—pay —pay!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


BUILDERS OF CIVILIZATION
The forerunner of the automobile.
Built in 1800 by Richard
Trevithick, this machine was the
first self-propelled vehicle that
ever ran along a road.
The rigid iron rims of its wheels
form a strong contrast to the
cushioned comfort afforded by the
modern motor tyre.
m
m®
m
m
m
mm
Hill
W
*
mg
m
Hi
i>J
m
M
x
lIS
ill
111
IP
lx
'x
~,x
H
SSS-
»
IK
X-X ■•,
i
I*:
1.1
VH
mm
m
ii
ii
ii
Pi
Pxi xX<, ->
x". X
: ,X.,v
/
ml
m - ■ :
mm
wm
« fffLs
X< ; rV; • x 'W •
M
m
Barnet Glass
Tyres
8G.17M.30.
TSr MODERN Transportation


COMMONWEALTH LOAN
6% 6 '/
FOR EIGHT YEARS
FREE OF STATE INCOME TAX
If you have any money available for investment, the Commonwealth invites you to invest it in this Loan.
From every standpoint, you can invest your money in nothing better.
The convenience of all investors —large and small —is provided for.
A Bond for £lO will return you 12/- interest each year; and you can pay the £lO in instalments.
All information and application forms obtainable from Banks, Savings Banks, Money Order Post Offices and Members of Stock Exchanges.
Commonwealth Treasury, Canberra, F.C.T. J* H. SCULLIN, Treasurer.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Mr. Cinders”
Criterion (com. Saturday) .... “Little Accident”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal (coni. Saturday) ........ “The New Moon”
New Comedy (com. Saturday) “Scandal”
Hoyt’s Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
*
Sydney, which has the distinction of having
been described by Miss Amy Johnson and
other leading boarders at Government House
as the “most beautiful city I have seen,” has
on offer, apart from its harbor and stupendous
system of lanes, one of the finest troupes
In Sydney Domain an audience is some-
thing like an audience!
of performing oddities in captivity. But
great art never was appreciated. It doesn’t
deserve its Domain, darned if it does!
The relationship with this page is close
and happy. The show put on there every
Sunday afternoon, fine weather or English, is
not merely as good as a circus; it is a circus.
Its tent would be described by Jimmy
Edmond, that great Biblical authority, as
the least-crinkled, biggest and best-stretched
in Christendom. It has most enduring en-
durance artists, most agile jugglers, clever
sidestep performers, rare ladder balancers,
and clowns that can only be described as
perfectly natural. The itinerant collection of
girls in tights and suchlike tame animals
which modestly calls itself the Greatest
Show on Earth is a mere side-show to it.
Take away its small advantage in the matter
of smell, and Wirths’ is unquestionably
minor. What attraction is there in elephants
and such, aroma and all thrown in, beside
this expansive flesh-and-blood show and
mighty all-talkie? It has gone on for years,
rivalling even Repertory and the broadcast-
ing companies in its artistic insistence upon
giving the public what the public doesn’t
want, and the season looks as if it will last
indefinitely. Rightly so. The legitimate
theatre has been trying to give what the
public wants for years, and where is it
“He hooks down entirely new words.”
to-day? It is in the soup. And take the
movies—giving the public what no public
ever invented could really want. They’re
not in the soup! They’re eating it, with
trimmings.
But in spite of its high artistic standard,
the Domain remains what Shakspeare, if
he lived to-day, would call bully-beef to the
general. There are a few who do appreciate
it, and show their appreciation by wanting
to get at the comedians and fight them;
but the popular conception of it is merely a
sort of arboreal boarding-house, where
people sleep and otherwise entertain the
ancient gods at night-time. Some skirt
sacredly round the shade of this tree, because
here for three nights Billy Hughes once
snored; others skirt round it without the
sacredness, but for the same reason. Over
there they point to a sundial worth £3
7s. 6d.; at least, that was what a speculator
from the bush paid for it. But these people
are mere sightseers. It is only a comparative
few that come here with the deliberate
aesthetic intention of being annoyed. These
select ones gather round one or other of the
several dozen incomparable artists and glare
up at him, after the fashion of that manly
young fellow, Mr. Crawford, when the line
umpire has called a fault. Also, they do
boos and hoots, make veiled references to
alleged indiscretions of the artists’ forebears,
and emit those genteel mouth-noises said to
be indigenous to cultured America and
known in Sydney’s best suburbs as “passing
the fruit.”
But only for these few an artist like the
one set up here on the third-top rung of this
step-ladder would perform in vain. He is
a scraggy-looking chap, mostly hands and
tongue. If you met him in the street you’d
probably begin rehearsing your favorite
retort about the financial depression. Yet
lie has obviously undergone a careful training
in the great Domain specialty act —the intri-
cate, if rather roundabout, art of heating
the head by pulling the leg. His line of
patter is concocted out of high-explosive
references to hellfire and other hot stuff,
interlarded with frequent personal appeals
to the Deity for verification, invariably with
more success than, say, the appealing of Mr.
Duckworth, even when this latter perfect
sportsman is in his “finest voice” behind
the stumps. To eke out this patter —so
ludicrous that it seems almost
original—he reaches into the
air and hooks down entirely
new words with his fingers. He
puts his hands into his pockets
and fishes out —more words
that never were! He shoves
a thumb dexterously behind his
left ear—more of them ! He
runs his fingers through his
hair—still more, and a sprink-
ling of dandruff. But word-
coining is a mere item in his
repertoire. He picks up a
glass and performs the almost
incredible feat of drinking un-
diluted water. He does a turn
of soft-shoe dancing, balances
on one leg, swings invisible
dumb-bells, rounds off a sterl-
ing performance with a • bout
of shadow-sparring, and then
starts off afresh and does it all
over again.
Why he does it can only be
answered with why does he do
it? Most look at him as if he
were only a Governor-General,
and walk away. Even those
who want to show their appre-
ciation by eating him are pre-
vented by a callous lot of
policemen standing round the
performer, keeping his patrons
off him. That, of course, is a
survival of the original orchestra. The reason
so many orchestras are out of work these days
is simply that the legitimate theatre has lost
its punch and doesn’t really arouse the
sporting instincts of its audiences any more.
Perhaps there are not so many orchestras
out of work as there are said to be. What
more probable than that they should have
joined the police force, recognising here their
natural avocation, guarding these last re-
douts of mummery? Maybe they would miss
those old weapons of theirs, the piccolo, the
bassoon, the fiddle afid the drum. Give
them credit, they tried to use those things
as weapons to the last. It was never the
fault of orchestras that their weapons came
to be accepted as accessories to the enter-
tainment. That came about naturally with
the passing of the audience from being a
decent fighting force, capable of throwing
anything from a set of false teeth to a bunch
of radishes, into the decadent congregations
of stuffed owls that they are to-day.
It is not too late. The legitimate theatre
could engage this magnificent troupe of per-
forming oddities, and win back the good
savage audiences of old. Instead of giving
out sedative programmes, it could circulate
information about Chooksie, the miraculous
new food which produces 8756 eggs from
six fowls in four weeks —and let the audi-
ence use its imagination a bit. But the
legitimate theatre has given no proof that
it would not make a mess even of an idea
like that. Ten to one it would have these
oddities on the stage, the audience set and
ready, and then bungle the whole thing by
arming the orchestra with bagpipes and
exterminating audience and performers at
a blow.
Perhaps it is better to leave things as
they are. After all, even a clown has his
rights, and if he prefers the martyrdom of
neglect in the Domain he should be allowed
to have it. It is not a greatly coveted com-
modity, even among clowns.
ft *
The worst show of last week in Melbourne
was that provided by the National Broad-
casting co. when it elected to give the inspir
ing words of Mr. Fenton to the people on
his return from abroad. Mr. Fenton may
be a great statesman, but if his political
career depended on his ability to entertain
a mixed audience for an hour he would not
rise to the chairmanship of the Progress
Association at Reedy Dam. But Mr. Fenton
was witty, agile, engaging, brilliant, viva-
cious, profound, jocund, frolicsome and gay
compared to the eminent speakers who fol-
lowed him. The turn lasted nearly three
hours.
ft ft ft
Having decided to withdraw from the
business, the Tait firm recently announced
that vaudeville was dead. The corpse, how-
ever, continues to kick despite the evidence
of the medical certificate. In fact, it has
developed into two corpses, Jim Gerald hav-
ing- departed with his followers to the Bijou
without affecting the attendance at the
Tivoli, where Kenneth Duffield’s “Pot
Luck” is being served twice daily to crowded
houses. A fresh inspection of the last-
houses.
ft- ft- ft-
Adelaide Royal has reopened with a farce-
comedy by Edith Aird, a clever local journal-
ist. “Where’s Puss?” starts as light comedy,
of an English country vicarage, with a
young nobleman masquerading as the new
gardener to win the vicar’s daughter. It
develops into frank farce, with two separate
parties hiding in the drawing-room at mid-
night, and both with catlike noises as the
password. And the more farcical it got the
more the audiences (in a full week’s run)
“After reading the accompanying article the artist
wonders whether the citizen’s Domain may not be
the statesman’s Blithering Blazes.”
seemed to enjoy it. A blot in the play is an
incredible bounder posing as a “squatter with
a Bathurst-burr farm.” London loves to
imagine bounding Australians, but there is
no reason why our own authors should copy
the habit.
The acting is really good. The author, as
a strong-minded spinster, gives off her own
witty lines effectively, and the widely-experi-
enced G. W. Irvine makes the vicar funny
without buffoonery, Among the younger
people stands out Christabel Bagot, as a
friend of all parties.
* * *
Alexander Watson, at the King’s Hall,
Sydney, proves that there is good even in
reciters. He did so well last week that his
season was extended to the end of the
present week. Considering that he works
without the aid of costume, scenery or
props, he achieves extraordinary effects. He
can make even a hackneyed item like “Gunga
Din” sound like a new piece of verse. He
aims to keep a separate atmosphere for
every recital, and succeeds, even though a bill
includes Shakspeare, Kipling. Dickens, Whit-
combe Riley, Drinkwater, Milne, Barrie and
Mark Twain. His favorite appears to be
Barrie; he does him more often and perhaps
better than any of the others. Anyone who
objects to reciters on the ground of past
suffering should see Watson before condemn-
ing the breed altogether. He is a fine artist
as well as a cheery entertainer.
ft- * *
“The Jealous Wife,” with which Allan
Wilkie opened his current Sydney season at
the Opera House, lasted a bare week. It
came off on Friday, and Wilkie turned to
that theatrical Bradman “The Merchant of
Venice,” previously billed for
one matinee performance.
Perhaps the success of his
earlier revivals of eighteenth-
“And rounds off with a bout o f shadow-
sparring.”
century comedy tricked the eminent actor-
manager into digging up the considerably dead
offspring of George Golmaii the Elder. It has
its points of interest, chief of which is the
illustration by contrast of the improvement
in dramatic technique made since Coiman’s
day. A trouble is that a number of people
go to the theatre to be merely entertained,
and these arc likely to get restless when
the aside is used in all its unsophisticated
absurdity, as it is here, and perhaps openly
amused when, with the players in turn ex-
plaining away their past obvious actions and
leaving by separate doors, the play winds up
with a finale as creaky as a boarding-house
bed.
The piece for all its mustiness has some
fair situations —though these have long since
been worn out —and the engaging acting of
sundry members of the company made it
bearable. Miss Hunter-Watts managed a
clever study of the wife whose neurotic
jealousy makes shift to be the theme; it is
one of the best portrayals present writer has
caught her in. She never got within miles
of probability, but that is an amiable fault
of the part, not of the actress. Alexander
Marsh as her husband (another mighty im-
probability), Lorna Forbes as a playwright's
convenience called Lady Freelove, and Alan
Harkness as a mincing Lord Trinket were
the chief other compensations. iWilkie is to
be congratulated on casting himself out of
a leading rQle. His bachelor brother egging
the henpecked husband on to revolt was pro-
bably as good as such a long since utterly
hackneyed plot could permit.
The whole party did much better in “The
Merchant”; they invariably do their best
in Shakspook. To-night (Wednesday) they
turn on “Hamlet,” to be repeated at to-
morrow’s matinee. “Twelfth Night” will be
to-morrow night’s offering, with “As You
Like It” on Friday. “The School for Scan-
dal,” the best of Wilkie’s revivals outside
the Bard, will discuss reputations on Satur-
day afternoon and evening.
# ft ft-
“ New Moon” will rise at Melbourne Royal
on Saturday and quite a lot of people are
expected to turn over their money in honor
“Arming the orchestra with bagpipes to
exterminate audiences.”
of the event. “Scandal” will be revived at
the Comedy by Leon Gordon on the same
date. The King’s remains obstinately dosed,
though the obstinacy may not be all on
the theatre’s side.


Get your ~m.
®rt
PAINT'S and
VARNISHES
from
AGENTS
EVERYWHERE.
THEY "KEEP ON KEEPING ONI
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
7/ie Standard oi Quality throughout the Empire ,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting- Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety F-us?
Detonators
Cartridges
THE VALUE OF SECURITY
is fully realised by most people when considering investments or selecting a Bank or Safe Deposit,
but its worth should also be considered when selecting your Executor by reason of the import-
ance of that office. Be assured of undoubted security by appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, AGENT, ETC.
Its Capital and Reserves total £1,200,000, in addition to which in terms of the Act of Parlia-
ment by which the Company was incorporated the sum of £20,000 is deposited with the New
South Wales Government as PERPETUAL SECURITY for the proper administration of funds
entrusted to its care.
TRUST FUNDS UNDER CONTROL EXCEED £37,345,000.
Call or write for explanatory Booklet.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Managing Director. H. V. DOUGLASS, Manager.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
This Week's Investment Tip.
Stunning increases in Federal taxation
sent prices for Stock Exchange securities
toppling last week. The pastoral, picture,
rubber, brewery and newspaper groups were
amongst the early sufferers.
Heavy imposts were expected, and scrip
prices had been adjusted. But the market
generally had not realised that our income
as a whole had shrunk to such an extent that,
on the basis of last year’s tax assessments,
there would be a deficiency of over 14 mil-
lions in Federal revenue for the next 12
months. Loss of customs revenue, following
an inevitable restriction of imports, accounts
for about half that amount. The other half
is due to a sharp contraction in pastoral, agri-
cultural, trading and other incomes as the
result of world-wide depression in commodity
prices and the drying-up of wells from which
overseas loan money used to flow.
Because of all this millions of pounds of
paper values have disappeared, the public
has less loose cash in its pockets, and trade
turnovers generally are on the down grade.
Hence a very urgent need is to reduce
overhead, and get costs more into line with
fallen values. The longer this is delayed the
greater will be the number of casualties
amongst the financially weak, and unemploy-
ment and suffering will greatly increase.
The Government, however, has actually
budgeted for a slightly increased expendi-
ture. To raise the extra £14,000,000-odd
new customs duties, expected to yield
£5,700,000, have been levied, and the balance
is to be squeezed from the attenuated earn-
ings of traders and others —this by sharp
increases in income and excise taxes, an
extra 3d. per gallon on petrol, higher postage,
and a sweeping levy of 2J p.c. on sales,
except of primary products and a few other
commodities that are exempt.
The sales tax, of course, will be passed
on in the vast majority of cases, but the
lot will bite deeply into takings, keep
local prices and overhead up, check the drop
in the cost of living, still further restrict
spending and accelerate the decline in turn-
overs. Also the bad debts question will
become more acute. Trading results of recent
years are therefore no guide to what may be
expected in the future. Concerns with heavy
overhead and a load of outside debt are likely
to find conditions for the next few years
very troublesome. Those whose earnings
depend upon the sale of primary products
will also feel the pinch severely, unless world
prices recover. Cos. well ribbed financially,
with a wide margin between earnings and
distributions, and dealing mainly ’in non-
luxury lines, will come through the rough
passage ahead with least damage.
Meanwhile most investors will play for
safety. Government loans will mop all spare
cash available and buying support for trading
stocks will lack strength, thus tending to keep
prices generally low.
Swallow and Ariell, Ltd.
Added Reserves
to Re- (Nomi-
April, Profits. Dividends. serves. nal).
£ £ £ £
1920.. 27,938 10 p.c. = 22,812 5,126 140,628
1921.. 8,009 74 „ ~ 19,018 129,619
1922.. 11,844 6' „ ~17,050 124,413
1923.. 29,606 7 „ „ 20,326 9,280 133,693
Insurance reserve taken in .. 1,200 134,893
Reserves.
Goodwill written off, £40,000 . . 94,893
1924.. 33,896 8 p.c. = 23,651 10,245 105,138
1925.. 29,966 9 ~ „ 27,000 2,966 108,104
1926.. 30,172 8 „ „ 24,000 6,172 114,276
1927.. 24,663 8 „ „ 24,000 663 114,939
1928.. 22,082 7 „ „ 21,000 1,082 116,021
1929.. 23,159 7 „ „ 21,000 2,159 118,180
1930.. 22,806 7 „, „ 21,000 1,806 119,986
The figures of this co. have been slipping
for the last half-dozen years, so, unable to
pass increasing costs on to the consumer,
the management recently made an assault on
outgoings by a reorganisation of manufac-
turing and distributing methods, including
electrification of the factory. Whatever may
have been gained during the last term was
apparently more than offset by reduced turn-
over, due to depression.
Gross profits have come down by steps
from £54,426 in 1924 to £43,934 during the
12 months to the close of last accounts, when
the drop was £832. Administrative charges
were £479 lighter, leaving a net shrinkage of
£353. But the final figure was no better
than 7.6 p.c. on the £300,000 of paid capital
compared with 7.7, 7.3, 8.2, 10, 9.9 and
11.6 p.c. back to 1924; the ratio to total
funds (capital and reserves combined) was
only 5.4 p.c. The all-round 7 p.c. div. was
repeated, making an average of 7.4 p.c. over
the last decade.
During the year the ice-cream section of
the business was passed to a subsidiary.
Though the weather was unkind and com-
petition sharpened, the pup reports that a
profit was earned, but the amount, likely to
have been small, was not included with the
parent’s figures.
The segregation of this part of the busi-
ness shows up in a spring of £37,248 in the
book value of shares in other cos. and a net
contraction of £24,527 in the fixed assets: —
1924. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Capital .. £300,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Overdraft . . 45,335 119,719 79,137 84,696
Mortgages, etc. 17,000 25,900 25,900 25,000
Other debts. . 48,405 52,910 49,562 39,936
Fixed assets.. 326,773 430,342 400,920 376,393
Shares in other
cos. . . 674 610 591 37,839
Stocks . . 108,211 110,016 97,847 85,768
Book debts, etc. 92,732 82,280 83,667 79,925
Cash . . .. 307 263 254 193
The year’s net reduction in the substantial
outside debt was £4967; stocks were £12,079
lighter, and the shrinkage in book debts and
cash was £3803. Excluding shares, but
taking stocks into the reckoning, the more
or less liquid surplus (£16,254) was thus
£10,915 lighter than at the previous balance.
Intimately associated with the question of
profits is the efficiency of the plant and the
adequacy or otherwise of the allowances for
depreciation, but the board gives no hint on
these points. However, with both wholesale
and retail prices on the down grade, trade
becoming more competitive and the burden of
taxation much heavier, results will largely
depend upon the extent to which overhead
and costs can be got down.
Sinco the close of accounts another subsi-
diary has been formed to handle dehydrated
vegetables and fruit. But the market con-
siders the 30s. ords. paid to 20s. worth no
more than 15s. 6d. The return at that
price is 9 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis; they
are covered by net tangibles with a book
value of 325. The prefs.—loo,ooo of them —
carry a cumulative 6 p.c., advance with the
ords. beyond that rate and have priority as
to capital. The backing amounts to £4 4s.
in net tangibles, and last year’s net profit
was over three times their minimum annual
requirements. They are priced at 195.,
returning 6.3 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
Walter Reid and Co., Ltd.
Writ- To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. ten Off. serves, selves.
£ £ £ £ £
1919.. 30,100 10 p.c.= 25,000 4,446 654 86,554
1920.. 60,964 12i „ ~ 31,250 5,484 24.230 110,784
1921.. 44,197 10 „ ~ 25,000 2,340 16,857 127,641
1922.. 39,628 10 „ ~ 25,000 2,907 11,721 139,362
1923.. 46,418 10 „ ~ 25,000 2,855 18,563 157,925
1924.. 47,386 124 „ ~31,250 4,007 12,129 170.054
1925.. 54,235 12f „ ~ 31,250 3,622 19.363 189.417
1926.. 54,181 124 „ ~31,250 3,732 19.199 208,616
1927.. 52,595 14 „ „ 35,000 4,324 13,271 221,886
Reserves disclosed, £lB,BlO .. .. 240,696
1928.. 37,418 i 0 p.c. = 25,000 4,658 7,760 248,456
1929.. 46,976 124 „ ~ 31,250 4,290 11,436 259,892
1930. . 40,180 12J ~ ~ 31,250 3,182 5,748 265,640
The headquarters of this general merchandis-
ing and agency co. are at Rockhampton, but
much of the business is done in central
and far west Queensland. The decline
in admitted net earnings since 1925 reflects
the four years’ gruelling drought, on the
heels of which came the collapse of wool
values, tight money and restricted spending.
But so vigorously had the board saved during
29 years that, after handing out £145,000
of bonus scrip, visible accumulations were
still £15,040 higher than paid capital at
May 31. Moreover, the book value of assets,
especially debtors’ balances, is protected by
substantial inner reserves as well.
Thus equipped the co. has been able to
exhibit remarkably good results, despite
adverse conditions, and shareholders have
averaged 12.3 p.c. over the last seven years.
And that is worth a lot more than it looks to
old holders, of course. Last year gross
profit (£124,241) fell away £4191; exes.
(£84,081, including an unspecified provision
for bad debts, etc.) were £2605 heavier,
making the shrinkage in the final figure
£6796. Still, after openly striking off £3IS2
for depreciation, shown as written off in the
table, it was 14.8 p.c. on paid capital as
against 17, 13.1, 19.3, 20.2 and 20.2 p.c. back
to 1925. So the 6d. bonus, which is paid
from the interest on Government securities,
was again sent out with the 10 p.c. div.
The year’s duller trading released more
working capital, which was invested outside
the business: —
1920 1926 1929 1930
Paid capital.. £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities .. 137,738 97,971 70,955 36,115
Stocks .. 211,318 255,266 210,072 208,298
Book debts .. 149,448 164,467 97,862 76,095
Cash.. .. 33,517 42,478 68,586 63,676
Freeholds and
investments 140,558 131,855 223,077 243,568
The holding in Commonwealth bonds was
strengthened by £50,000, raising it to
£150,000, while the property and other
investments item (now £03,586) was
reduced £29,509. Book debts were £21,767
lighter, and £34,840 was lopped off the out-
side debt.
A further contraction of earnings can be
expected during the current year, and the
taxgatherer is to bite deeper; so the 124
p.c. distribution is by no means secure,
though the co. is very well equipped indeed
to earn good returns. The pound shares,
which fetched 365. a year ago, are now at
30s. 6d. After allowing for the final div.
and bonus, the return at the latter price is
6.9 p.c. on a 10 p.c. dlv. basis. The visible
backing is 41s. 3d. in net tangibles. The
co. is in the happy position of being able to
return more than half its paid capital,
should it la-ter find that it has more than it
wants.
Mangrovite Belting, Ltd. (Sydney).
Net To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1923.. 12,804 10 p.c. = 8834 3970 1,026
1924.. 12,642 10 „ „ 9622 3020 4,046
1925.. 8,481 8 „ „ 7993 488 4,534
1926.. 8,765 8} „ ~ 8834 4,465
1927.. 7,876 8 „ „ 8077 4,264
1928.. 9,066 8* „ „ 8582 484 4,748
1929.. 6,071 7 „ 7067 3,752
This co. took over Charles Ludowici’s
tanning and leather business 12 years ago,
and for the first eight of them shareholders
averaged a wink under 10 p.c., sweetened
with a one-in-three bonus scrip-issue in
1920. In order to provide for the gift,
patent rights, not treated as an asset herein,
were given a book value of £6732, and the
tangibles were written up £13,000-odd. Pre-
sently erratic markets, mounting costs and
industrial and other troubles affected earn-
ings, and according to the figures it has
lately been a struggle to keep the div. around
8 p.c. The co. may be doing a bit better
than it admits, but there is nothing to suggest
that anything worth mentioning has been
slipped away.
Last year prices for the co.’s chief raw
material (hides) eased about 25 p.c., but
export prices for its products slipped 50 p.c.,
and economic troubles affected the local
demand for belting, etc. The result was a
drop of £2995 in the year’s profit, which was
6 p.c. on capital compared with 8.9, 7.8,
8.6, 8.4 and 13.1 p.c. back to 1924. Condi-
tions improved toward the close of accounts
and a final div. at the rate of 8 p.c. p.a.
was paid, making 7 p.c. for the year, though
the attenuated reserves had to be raided for
£996 to do it. Owing to the improved belt-
ing now being turned out. and brighter pros-
pects for local manufacture, demand for the
co.’s wares is expected to strengthen.
Finances are comfortable :
1921. 1925. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital. . £88,333 £100,965 £100,963 £100,963
Liabilities . . 2,613 8,042 2,750 1,706
Property & plant 50,892 62,281 64,588 65,437
Stocks . . 34,220 48,270 38,239 34,134
Book debts .. 8,982 9,574 10,321 7,883
Cash . . . . 885 410 2,873 5,914
Stocks, which were worked down £4105
during the year, are lighter than at any
time during the last decade. Much depends
upon the figure at which they were written,
a<nd whether the allowance for depreciation,
etc., proves to be adequate. The more or
less liquid surplus (£46,225 including stocks)
was £2458 less than it was at Dec. 31, 1928.
On the market 18s. is asked for the pound
shares without attracting buyers. At that
price the return is 7.8 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div.
basis. The backing is 20s. 9d. in net tan-
gibles.
The New Zealand Farmers’ Fertiliser.
Towards
March, Loss. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1922.. 15,916 Nil 50,041
Share forfeitures, £2383 .. .. 47,658
Profit.
1923.. 7,247 Nil 7,247 40,411
Share forfeitures, £11,061 .. .. 29,350
1924.. 24,106 Nil 24,106 5,244
Additions to reserves, £2186 .. 3,058
Reserves.
1925.. 25,724 74 p.c. = ,19.650 6,074 3,016
Written back from taxation, £1,824 4,840
1926.. 27.156 74 p.c. = 19.650 7.506 12.346
1927.. 25,187 7| „ „ 19,650 5,537 17,883
1928.. 17,626 6 „ „ 15,720 1,906 19,789
1929.. 27,655 8 „ „ 20,959 6,696 26,485
MaV,
1930*. 30,975 8 „ „ 24,453 6,522 33,007
♦Fourteen months.
A better showing than might have been
expected in the circumstances. During the
14 months covered by the latest accounts the
weather restricted the use of top-dressing,
and, of course, the sharp drop in the price
of wool, dairy and other primary products
affected the demand too. Gross profit for
the period was £99.321. and exes, wore
£68,346, as against £97,435 and £69,780 re-
spectively for the preceding 12 months. Con-
verting latest figures to an annual basis,
there was a drop of £12,303 in gross profits
and a cut of £11,198 in exes., leaving their
relative net result £llO5 short of the 1929
figure at £26,550. That is 10.1 p.e. on aver-
age capital compared with 10.5, 6.7, 9, 10.4
and 9.8 p.c. back to 1925; so the 8 p.c.
div. was repeated, making an average _of
4.9 p.c. for the nine years since production
began. Meanwhile a deficit of £50,041 has
been wiped out, and reserves of £33,007
have been accumulated.
The co. had a tough struggle from the
start, and is still carrying a heavy load of
outside debt. When the Auckland plant was
ready an accumulation of imported stocks
broke down the market; also domestic affairs
in the industry were unsatisfactory, and
continued so until a couple of years ago,
when differences were patched up. Never-
theless the board retained a large faith in
the co.’s future, and, with the help of the
bank, bought a freezing works at New Ply-
mouth in 1924 and installed another super,
plant there. The output at both works has
since greatly increased, and substantial addi-
tions have had to be made to plant.
Thus the overdraft mounted to £181,221
at the close of accounts in 1927; it was
reduced in each of the two following years,
but sprang £47,224 during the last term,
reaching £197,099 at May 31: —
1922. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Capital .. £261,942 £261,995 £261,995 £261,995
Bank overdraft 125,382 168,502 149,875 197,099
Other liabilities 4,894 43,679 42,889 41,126
Land, buildings,
plant . . 309,810 411,551 415,495 421,498
Stocks .. 19,968 42,680 51,373 . 97,811
Book debts .. 11,514 55,385 35,265 38,302
Stores, etc. . . 885 70 70 70
That was mainly to enable the co. to carry
an extra £46,438 of stocks. These are
claimed to be conservatively valued, and less
than will be required to meet the spring
demand, so the position should improve as
stocks go into consumption. At the close
of accounts the outside debt exceeded the
more or less liquids, including stocks, by
£102,042.
On fixed assets £6003 more was spent
than was written off during the term. They
are reported thoroughly efficient, and
adequate provision is said to have been made
for depreciation; future results will partly
depend upon this and upon the course of
competition and prices. The use of fertiliser
can be expected to widen.
The pound shares are steady at around
par. The backing is 225. 6d. in net tan-
gibles, all fixed assets, worth what they can
earn.
Assurance and Thrift Association, Ltd.
Added Assur-
to ance
Mar., Revenue. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.
£/ ■£ £ £ £
1920.. 18,703 3,031 7,041 8,631 47,627
1921.. 24,022 2,718 8,131 13,173 60,800
1922.. 21,473 2,299 8,382 1 q 7q9 7n
Transferred to reserve fund, £lOOO 5 ' ,OJ ~‘
1923.. 26,045 5,002 9,173 11,870 82,462
1924.. 31,704 3,736 8,070 19,898 102,360
1925.. 27,495 6,511 9,892 ) q aqo ill 452
Transferred to reserve fund, £2OOO ) ’ ’
1926.. 33,101 5,783 11,581 15,737 127,189
1927.. 34,078 8,420 11,889 13,769 140,958
1928.. 35,289 7,575 11,813 15,901 156,859
1929.. 38,055 8,747 12,121 17,187 174,046
1930.. 39,577 10,499 12,677 16,401 190,447
♦lncluding divs.: 1912-18, 4 p.c. ; 1919, 5 p.c. ;
1920, 6 p.c. ; 1921-23, 7 p.c. ; 1924-30, 8 p.c.
This little Sydney life office was founded by
managing-director Dovey, an actuary of the
old safety-first school, who is still at the
helm. It has kept strictly out of the fren-
zied hunt for big new-business figures; thus
its development has been slow, but sound and
profitable. It has taken 20 years to build
up an income of £39,577 and an assurance
fund totalling £190,447 in the life and house-
purchase branch. However, when the
actuary measured up the liabilities under
policies at March 31 he figured a surplus of
£17,962, of which £14,320 was split up
amongst policy-holders. That was £3139
more than was divided at the previous valua-
tion (March 31, 1927), and provided bonuses
ranging from 345. p.c. on endowment assur-
ances to 465. p.c. on whole-life policies 15
years or more in force. The other £3642
was carried forward. Also shareholders
have had a steady 8 p.c. since 1924.
Last year business became more difficult
and expensive to get. The £92,665 of new
assurances put on the books under 365
policies was £7940 less than was written
under 382 policies in the previous term.
Apart from divs., exes, made off with 27.3
p.c. of the year’s total income as against
26.9 p.c. and 28.1 p.c. in 1929 and 1928
respectively.
The co.’s chief source of profit is surplus
interest. This is the difference between the
31 p.c., which the office assumes that the
life fund will earn and the rate actually
realised; the latter was 6.5 p.c. on mean
funds last year compared with 6.9 p.c. the
year before. Other handy contributions to
the pool have been the capital profits on
investments, which have totalled £11,457
over the last five years, or £2124 more than
the 8 p.c. div. called for.
(Continued on page 18.)


Ticklish
Times
You can’t be sure of any invest-
ment these days,
Some of the oldest companies
are close to the edge.
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly’
doesn’t know everything; but
it has a wonderful accumulation
of data and unequalled sources
of information, and it places
these at your disposal.
JULY NUMBER
NOW ON SALE
SINGLE COPY, 2/-;
PEK ANNUM, 22/6.
It looks a good deal of money ; but it
may save you losing all you’ve got.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting ?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, 77
Castlereagb - Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth
and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. —Advt.
* sit * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Exchange
Arranged. Geo. E. Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria
Buildings, Corner Collins and Swanston Streets, Mel-
bourne.— Advt.
* * * *
The specification of Pioneer Wood Pipe, on
practically any description of liquid-conveying pro-
ject means a definite and considerable saving in
initial cost —without the slightest sacrifice of effi-
ciency. In fact, Pioneer Wood Pipe, being abso-
lutely non-corrosive, unaffected by extremes of
climate or electrolysis, extremely strong and durable
—is capable of giving conduit service of the very
highest standard of efficiency. Illustrated catalogue
from the Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns
Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W. ;
and at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
Si: * ifc
Timmsville Timber Co., Ltd., Ulong, Dorrigo
District (N.S.W.), invites• inquiries for select North
Coast mountain hard and soft woods, wholesale and
export lots. Steady supplies, graded, in sap or kiln-
dried. Electrical installation. Write or ’phone
direct, or to. Sydney Office, 46 Trafalgar Street,
Annandale. — Advt.
* * * *
Bismuth. —We are buyers of Bismuth Concentrates
in any quantity. Write, giving particulars of
quantity available, and send samples to Elliott
Brothers, Limited, Box 494 AA, G.P.0., Sydney.
—Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
* $ * *
AVIRE ROPES —AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney ; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.-— Advt.
fdjfd
How Much Is a Year of
Your Life Worth?
MANY men succeed sooner or later
whether they have special business
training or not. But the tragedy
is the number of men that wear out
years of their lives in mediocre posi-
tions when they might just as easily
be doing larger, more profitable things.
It is the splendid privilege of the
A.H.I. to help men move more quickly
from where they are to where they
want to be—to save the years that
might otherwise be w'asted.
Write to-day for the free book “Forg-
ing Ahead in Business,” which gives
full details of the
Alexander Hamilton Institute
Courses Controlled in Australia by
HEMINGWAY & POBERTSON.
MELBOURNE: 38 Bank House, Bank
Flace, 410-12 Collins Street.
SYDNEY: 38 Barrack House, 16 Barrack
Street. PlO
&
0OORD&SON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
fit
m
Swift & Company, Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26-30 Clarence St., Sydneyt
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office iti Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-Glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone,
etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Offices
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
With conservative underwriting the man-
agement mixes a little speculation in land.-
Complete balance-sheet figures have moved
thus:—
1925. 1927. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital .. £23,333 £23,333 £23,333 £23,333
Liabilities .. 6,692 5,154 3,945 4,393
.Freeholds.. .. 34,943 38,068 50,034 56,012
Equipment . . 992 964 921 821
Mortgages, etc. .. 83,058 86,200 103,171 116,248
Loans on policies 8,092 10,018 14,006 16,004
Shares in other cos. 15,992 29,592 27,979 25,303
Public securities.. 4,740 7,962 11.887 12,823
Book debts . . 3,734 4,577 5,734 6,019
Cash, etc. . . 1,261 5,124 3,094 1,105
At the close of last accounts net tangible
assets had a book value of £229,943, of
which approximately three-quarters was
represented by mortgages and freeholds.
Liabilities under life contracts amounted to
£166,941, thus leaving a margin of £63,602
to cover a handful of other risks and repre-
sent £23,333 of share capital—£7o,ooo £1
shares paid to 6s. Bd.
Last year the small fire-and-accident busi-
ness brought in £4730, of which claims took
£969 and exes. £3lOl, leaving a net surplus
of £660. That lifted the contingency fund
to £9027.
Marchanl’s, Ltd.
. Net To Re- Re-
May, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1920.. 5,220 7 p.c. = 4193 1027 6,448
1921.. 4,378 7 „ „ 4193 185 6,633
1922.. 8,096 7 „ „ 5066 3030 9,603
1923.. 9,198 10 „ „ 7253 1945 11,608
Profit on property sale . . 734 12,342
1924.. 8,593 10 p.c. = 7253 1340 13,682
1925.. 8,040 10 „ „ 7253 787 14,469
1926.. 8,552 10 „ „ 7253 1299 15,768
1927.. 7,985 10 „ „ 7253 732 16,500
1928.. 8,351 10 „ „ 7253 1098 17,598
1929.. 9,026 10 „ „ 7253 1773 19,371
1930.. 10,403 10 ~ „ 7253 3150 22,521
This little soft-drinks co. has worked itself
into a comfortable position. It set up 20
years ago with a capital of £38,507. Five
years later £21,393 of bonus scrip was scat-
tered, freehold and plant being written up
£11,444 for the purpose, and the div. dropped
from 10 p.c. to 7 p.c. In 1922 a par issue
raised capital to its present figure, and
shareholders have since had a regular 10 p.c.
Last year turnover shrank because the
weather was unkind and the public had less
loose cash in its pocket—and is likely to
have still less during the current term.
Nevertheless, after providing for taxation
and depreciation, the board wrote the year’s
net profit £1377 better than the 1929 figure.
The improvement was due to economies fol-
lowing careful supervision, the chairman
says; it lifted the return on capital to
14.3 p.c. compared with 12.4, 11.5, 11, 11.8
and 11 p.c. back to 1925.
Finances are very comfortable:—
1924. 1927. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital .. £72,534 £72,534 £72,534 £72,534
Liabilities . . 4,322 1,652 1,200 597
Freeholds, buildings,
etc 42,825 40,274 38,667 34,640
Plant, etc. .. 23,027 26,526 16,854 14,634
Stocks . . . . 13,330 13,129 10,235 8,737
Book debts and cash 21,359 20,511 35,701 45,992
Since 1927 the book value of plant has been
cut nearly in halves, £11,892 more being
written off than was spent on that item.
How things are likely to pan out during
this term is very much guesswork at the
moment. Further contraction in turnover
is certain, and the recent stinging increases
in taxation will cut into takings. On the
market 265. is offered for £1 shares without
sellers. At that price the return is 7.7
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. Excluding the
taxation reserve (£4000), the backing
amounts to 265. 3d. in net tangibles, of
which 14s. lid, is in surplus liquids.
Mount Isa.
Mining Trust, Ltd., has made available
an estimate of the annual net profit from
the first 2000-ton-a-day unit at Mt. Isa,
which is expected to be producing before the
end of this year. The figures are subject
to taxation, and based on lead at the prices
stated; silver has been valued at Is. 7d. per
ounce, but zinc has been left out of the
reckoning:—
Lead Lead Lead
per Estimated per Estimated per Estimated
Ton. Profit. Ton. Profit. Ton. Profit.
£l4 £394,000 £lB £663,000 £22 £932,000
15 461,000 19 730,000 23 999,000
16 528,000 20 797,000 24 1,067,000
17 596,000 21 865,000 25 1,134,000
With lead around its present figure the
profit shown is 51 p.c. on the present
£1,295,800 of paid capital. The known
mineralised area on the co.’s property is 21
miles in length, about 1500 ft. wide, and con-
tains a number of ore bodies. To date about
28,000,000 tons of ore has been measured up.
On the Black Star lode the drill is still in
ore at 1000 ft., the average assay being 6.8
p.c. lead, 5.6 p.c. zinc and 4.30 z. silver.
If 40ft. of the lowest-grade ore is omitted
the figures are 8 p.c. lead, 6.4 p.c. zinc and
5.30 z. silver.
Very much, however, will depend upon
whether costs can be kept within the figures
reckoned upon.
Frank Hambridge, who represents the
Mining Trust on the Mt. Isa board and has
been in charge of its recent finance opera-
tions, recently left for London to consult the
board.
G. V. A. Stanley, for some years on the
staff of the Anglo-Persian Oil Co. in New
Guinea and Papua, told the Sydney Millions
Club a few days ago that he and other ex-
perienced geologists were firmly convinced
that payable oil deposits would be found
in the Territories if properly and energeti-
cally sought for. The following from a- man
who was for some years in the employ of
the Commonwealth Oil Co. on the Popo
field in Central Papua, but is now resident
in Sydney, is worth noting in this connec-
tion :
There is, at conservative estimate, plant, etc., there
valued at between 30 and 40 thousand, and they
have written the best part of it down 50 per cent.
The efforts of the Anglo-Persian have been a tragedy,
due principally to faulty drilling and supervision,
and not, as given out in the Federal Parliament, to
faulty structure and running mudstone, though the
latter is there, certainly—in both No. 4 and No. 5
wells. These had to be abandoned on account of
stoppage due to bent casing. Mazlin, at No. 3, got
down 700 ft. through running mud stone (a total
depth of 2700 ft.) with not half the advantages the
last two holes had in the way of plant and appli-
ances; his stoppage was due to losing a sinker
bar, and then spoiling the hole in endeavoring to
drill past it. Nobody in the Territory ever thought
the Anglo-Persian wanted oil. They are about fifty-
fifty with the Commonwealth in refining the Anglo-
Persian crude oil from Persia; they would want to
be a benevolent institution to try to get oil at
Popo, and nobody who knows them credits them
with being that. At the death knock, when all hope
was past and the Commonwealth gave them three
months to find oil or get out, they sent a man named
Miller. He went ahead with up-to-date improve-
ments, and I think would perhaps have done some-
thing ; he was then under the impression that the
A.-P.O. would carry down on their own if the Com-
monwealth drew out. However, the Scullidores got
in and the A.P.O. reckoned they would not take it
on on their own. They had everything, there to
carry on for at least 12 months, and, one, assumes,
had the assurance of their own geological staff, who
originally selected this site.
* sjs ❖ *
Great Tanami Ltd., the parent co., formed
in London to orga<nise something well up on
to the six-figure mark to work the reef
formations at Tanami, Nor’-Westralia, has
had difficulty in filling the lists. A. H.
Collier, of Associated Mining and Finance,
Ltd., who recently visited Australia in con-
nection with Kalgoorlie and Wiluna
interests, was approached, but since his group
had before it a scheme to test a range of
Sydney-owned blocks over which an Adelaide
crowd has an option, he declined to act until
his own experts inspected the field. E. O.
Watt, James Hebbard and F. B. _ Stephens
went out and confirmed thh optimism of the
late H. Y. L. Brown, Lionel Gee, Dr Jensen
and others. So a conference was held in
Adelaide, at which Richard Hamilton, of
Kalgoorlie, represented the Collier group, and
a scheme to amalgamate Tanami Gold Mines,
N.L., and Sydney Tanami Lodes, N.L. (17
leases), was proposed. A programme of dia-
mond drilling and developmental work has
been recommended; meanwhile the mill and
general plant is being made ready. Alice
Springs and Adelaide’s faith in the field
was displayed by the dispatch of a party
across the continent to peg business sites.
Two strongly-defined lode fissures traverse
the field. Watt remarks on the similarity
of appearances to Kalgoorlie, and notes that
the Tam ami Chief (eastern lode) is in the
same position to the Reward (western line)
ns Lake View is to the Boulder line.
Tanami Chief is held by Tom Laurie and
partner. They have not included it with the
amalgamation.
* * * *
“Tributor”; Baragwanath, Victoria’s out-
standing mine surveyor, recently visited
Ballarat in connection with an effort to
put that old field back on the map. He showed
good judgment in selecting the Little Bendigo
section as the best bet. There are a number
of good lines of reef there, including the
Monte Cristo, Dimmock’s, Grey Horse and
Temperance, all of which have been only
casually tried. About 30 years ago a small
syndicate, including J. James, divided close
on £lOO,OOO from an inclined shaft on the
Temperance. The New Temperance Co. sank
a vertical shaft to the east of the old one,
and crosscutted for the reef at about 1000 ft.
They struck a big reef, at once installed an
expensive battery and rushed a crushing of
the big buck stone through. It turned out,
just as mining men in the district expected,
about ldwt. to the ton. Without doing
another tap of work the co. threw up the
sponge. Like most of the mines worked on
English capital in the district, it was ruined
by overhead. The Lothair, at Little Bendigo,
was a shining example of this.
* * * *
The old Hodgkinson Goldfield is now in-
cluded partly in the Chillagoe and partly m
the Herberton fields. Port Douglas was its
port but when the fortunes of the field
declined the Port went to the goats, as many
N Q. towns founded to feed fleeting goldfields
did. However, it has now taken on a
new lease of life, thanks to the Daintree
River sugar-fields, and a strong effort is to
be made to revive the goldfield. Recently a
public meeting in Brisbane resolved to form
a “patriotic” co. with the object of creating
work for the many N.Q. miners who are
having a bad spin. The idea was endorsed
by many of Brisbane’s leading citizens, and
a co. with a million Is. shares is suggested.
A coucession over 660 acres on the field will
be transferred to the co.. on conditiou that it
undertakes developmental work. A com-
mittee has been formed to get the organisa-
tion under way, and provisional directors
have been appointed. There are no pro-
moter’s or vendor’s cuts.
H: * H: #
Wiluna directors have issued an interim
report summarising developments during the
past eight or nine months and explaining
the arrangements for the further financing of
the co. Towards completion of the extended
programme £300,0€0 has been raised by the
issue of 6 p.c. seven-year notes, principal and
interest unconditionally guaranteed by the
Westralian State Government and backed by
the Commonwealth Government. The balance
of £250/X)0 will .have to be provided at some
later stage. Meanwhile two of the biggest
shareholders, the New Consolidated Gold-
fields, . Ltd., and Transvaal Agency, Ltd.,
have promised to provide such funds as may
be required.
* * =l= *
Kimberley Exploitation Co., whose shares
went to a high premium a little while ago,
has drawn, another blank. C. M. Harris,
who inspected one of the eo.’s recent con-
cessions, failed to find the mineral riches
that were alleged to be there. Also, he re-
ports, he can’t find anything of value on an
adjoining concession, which was declared
to be even better than the other one. Kim-
berley is frequently billed as a place, of
good things, but under present conditions
it is not the sprt of place where the public
is likely to back a winner.
* * * *
Tanah Biji, a holding and prospecting co.
formed in 1925 by Alluvial Tin,, reports a
loss for the year ended March 31 of £323,
thus reducing the p. and 1. credit to £1523.
An additional area at Berjuntai lias been
acquired, and managing-director Percy Pen-
man made satisfactory arrangements for the
flotation of a working co. during a. recent
visit to London. T.B.’s paid capital is
£lOO,OOO in f.p. £1 shares; sundry creditors
figure at £9562. Principal assets are 26,000
£1 shares in Jelapang Tin Dredging and
193,838 10s. shares in Rawang Tin Fields.
At cost these represent a total of £105,766.
*-* * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
As the Community General Assurance Co.
has gone into liquidation, what is the posi-
tion of persons having policies current with
it? Is the cover of any value? —7449.
Negotiations are in progress for the trans-
fer of Workers’ Compensation policies, to
another co. There are some “substantial”
assets left, we are informed, but the extent
of the liabilities is not yet ascertained. Rights
of policy-holders whose policies are still
current are being decided by counsel. Obvi-
ously fresh cover should be taken against
fire, etc., with some other office without
delay.
Has the Plane Creek Central Sugar Mill,
Mackay ( Q.), erected its distillation plant
yet? If so, has it commenced production?
Prospects?— 77o4.
A distillery, is erected at Sarina, the name
of the co. being Australian National Power
Alcohol Co., Ltd.; Plane Creek Central Mill
Co. has a large interest in it. By means of a
special still, alcohol of 100 per cent, strength
has been manufactured during the past two
years for power spirit. This alcohol is mixed
with petrol in fixed percentages and marketed
in conjunction with the Shell Co. of Aus-
tralia as Shellkol, for use in motor-cars and
all internal combustion engines. The alcouol
is manufactured from sugar-cane molasses,
and where Shellkol is available it is highly
thought of as a motor-car fuel. Prospects
good. Main difficulty at present is to get
sales at a low enough cost.
I teas a grazier. Selling out , I put the
proceeds in Government stocks. In view of
possibilities, would I not be safer if I sold
out and re-invested in grazing land?—' 7s34.
See “Investment Hint” last week. After
all, one can be the owner of land only on
the terms that one is subject to any taxation
which the State chooses to impose; and the
State that would destroy the value of its
own bonds would not be likely to stick at
expropriating the value of lands under its
control. We can see no present reason to
fear either disaster.
(1) Has the British Imperial Co. bought
a controlling interest in the Australian
Power Alcohol Co.? (2) If not, what is
the agreement the two companies have re
the sale of “Shellkol”? (3) Would I be
helping Australian and British interests most
by buying “C.0.R.” or “Shellkol”? —6121.
(1) The Shell Co. of Australia (formerly
British Imperial Oil .Co.) informs us that
it does not hold shares in the Aust. Power
Alcohol Co. (2) “Shellkol” is marketed
under agreement in the joint interests of
the Shell Co and the A. P. A. Co., the last-
named, it is understood, getting first cut
out of the profits from the sale of the alcohol,
of which “Shellkol” contains 15 p.c. The
A. P. A. Co. is understood to be now doing
fairly well, but no figures are available. . (3 I
You would bo helping Australian and British
interests by buying either “Shellkol'' or
“C.0.R.” spirit. “C.0.R.” is made from
petroleum produced by the Anglo-Persian
Oil Co. (See these columns, B. 14/5/'.'>o. )
In account sales of fruit sold in London
for me, my local agents credit me icith the
exact amount of the London statements,
pocketing the exchange. Is this allowable?
—7709. ‘
Not if the firm’s undertaking was to sell
the fruit in London on your account. For
present season’s crop you would be entitled
to an extra 5 p.c. at least.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
8.D.M.: (1) A very bad time to sell.
(2) Output did not reach prescribed minimum. (3)
No; but manufacturing has not been abandoned....
W.T.D.; Don’t chance that policy. Take out another
in a sounder office.... J.N.: Don’t know; they are
worth Is. premium... .F.11.E.: Wait a while. Posi-
tion too obscure at present. ~ .F.S.S.: “‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,” November, 1929.


ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
The Merron Deposit
and Investment T rust
Limited
(Incorporated under the Companies Acts of New South Wales 1899-1918.)
Authorised Capital £,100,000
divided into 200,000 shares of 10/- each.
100,000 shares of 10/- each are now offered for public subscription
On application—2/- per share.
On allotment—2/- per share.
And the balance of 6/- per share in three instalments
100,000 are held in reserve for future issue at the discretion of the
at par on the following terms:—
of 2/- each, payable at intervals of two months from date of allotment.
Directors.
DIRECTORS:
HAROLD WILLIAM MILLER, Esq.
(Chairman of Directors),
The Merron Estate Ltd., 1 1 Martin Place, Sydney.
SIDNEY ARTHUR PERRY, Esq.
“Lome,” Greenknowe Avenue, Potts Point.
(Mr. Perry has been actively engaged on the Stock Exchanges
of Australia for the past 20 years.)
FREDERICK C. EMANUEL, Esq.,
Solicitor, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
HERBERT S. BECKENHAM, Esq.,
Late Manager of the Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.,
North Sydney Branch.
FRANCIS J. MORGAN, Esq.,
Retired Merchant,
133 Macleay Street, Pott’s Point, Sydney.
CONSULTING ACCOUNTANT:
NORMAN B. RYDGE, Esq.,
Metropolitan Buildings, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
AUDITORS:
HILL, NOBLE & CO.,
Chartered Accountants, Barrack House, 1 6 Barrack Street, Sydney.
SOLICITORS:
F. C. EMANUEL & PEARCE,
Dalton House, I 1 5 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BANKERS:
ENGLISH, SCOTTISH & AUSTRALIAN BANK, LTD.,
Martin Place, Sydney.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
L. BUTLER YEATS,
1 1 Martin Place, Sydney.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY.
To-day so vast and complex is the machinery of modern business as
expressed in the form of the Joint Stock Company that no investor, be he
great or small, can afford to neglect or overlook the benefits to be derived
from the operations of a carefully conducted Investment Trust.
Has it ever occurred to you why a wealthy man or corporation gets
a higher return from their capital than the small investor?
The rich man gains more experience in putting money to work, and is
able to command the assistance of those who know more about it than he
does. That is one reason. Also he is able to distribute his money among
various investments in many localities and countries. CONDITIONS ARE
NEVER BAD IN ALL CLASSES OF BUSINESS EVERYWHERE AT THE
SAME TIME. Therefore the risks are reduced to the lowest possible limit.
Men of less means get less experience and help from others, and have
not enough money to buy even one piece of each security that the large
investor holds. Therefore he must, in the ordinary way, buy only the safest
of securities and get a very small return, or run a greater risk to get a
higher one.
To put it another way: An investor to-day can go to any member
of the Stock Exchange and get freely and cheerfully a list of, say, five
securities (the group investment plan) that will combine the essentials
of safe and profitable investment. But he will find that he cannot profitably
purchase an interest in this group with the sum at his disposal. He finds
that he must put “all his eggs in one basket,” or accept something like
savings bank interest or a fixed deposit.
“Odd lots,” as they are termed in Stock Exchange parlance, are
difficult to buy, and still more difficult to sell.
The Investment Trust combines the aggregate investments of thousands
of large and small investors, and can, therefore, invest on highly profitable
terms. It also has the enormous advantage of engaging in the underwriting
and flotation of sound industrials that the individual can never possess.
PRESENT OUTLOOK.
The period of depression and dislocation of trading activities through
which the Commonwealth is passing at present, while distressing individually
and collectively, can only be, in the very nature of human activities and
energy, a passing condition of affairs; and it is certain that the potentialities
of Australia are such that the enormous activities and progress of the last
1 0 years will be more than reproduced when we are called upon to review
the situation in 1940.
There has, possibly, never been a time in Australian financial history
when collective and judicious purchasing of sound industrial, banking and
insurance investments held such certainty of profit as the present.
THE IDEAL INVESTMENT.
"In the investment of capital there are four main factors to
consider:
1. Safety of Principal.
2. Increase of Earning Power.
3. Increase of Principal.
4. Ready Marketability of Securities.
“If we grasp the fundamental principles indicated in the four
factors set out above, we may expect reasonable success in building the
edifice of our fortunes. The hoarding of our savings in the vaults of
banks may assure success in the first factor without regard to the other
necessary characteristics of an ideal investment. Just as it is easily
made manifest that there is no wisdom in seeking ‘safety’ only, we must
learn to indulge in prudent venturing after reasonably high dividends
associated with possibilities of capital increases. And in all investments
it is wise to keep a constant eye upfon the fourth factor of market-
ability,’ as the sound industrialist never loses sight of the feasibility
of marketing the product of his enterprise.”
THE INVESTMENT TRUST FROM THE INVESTOR’S VIEW POINT
An Investment Trust is an institution whose business it is to invest money safely and profitably.
When a Trust is formed it sells its own shares and bonds just as does a Bank, Civic Corporation or Industry. , . . ,
Then, instead of employing its capital in banking, civic or public works, or manufacturing, thus to make dividends and interest for its investors, the
Investment Trust makes money for its shareholders by advantageously placing its capital in investment securities. , , , ...
By making a single investment in one good general Investment Trust you are at once investing in the great and widely diversified number of best securities
which the Trust owns. ~ ,
You are obtaining constant management of a high order for those diversined securities.
You are automatically arranging to buy or sell individual stocks or bonds as economic conditions make advantageous.
With your £lOO, your £lOOO or your £lO,OOO you are obtaining your pro rata share of the success of the Trust.
You are sharing the facilities and benefits of a large organisation. , . , .
The profit possibilities of a well-managed Investment Trust increase with the years as re-investment of surplus becomes a more and more important
factor. The older British Trusts often return 15 per cent., 20 per cent, or 25 per cent, on their original capitalisation.
So stable are the earnings of these older Trusts that their original stock often sells at several times their par value. . . , ,
After over half a century of successful experience in England, Scotland and America, the Investment Trust has, within a recent period, been introduced
to Australian investors.
NOTE THESE POINTS PARTICULARLY.
1. The Merron Deposit and Investment Trust Ltd. is a registered company,
and able to engage in all the activities of an Investment Trust forthwith.
2. The Merron Estate Ltd. has underwritten 25,000 shares of the first
issue of I 00,000
3. There is no payment by way of pro motors’ shares or cash consideration,
but to the promotors and underwriters is reserved the right to an
allotment of 25,000 shares at par for a period of two years.
4. THE MERRON ESTATE LTD. GUARANTEES TO SHAREHOLDERS
INTEREST AT THE RATE OF 7 PER CENT. PER ANNUM FOR A
PERIOD OF FIVE YEARS FROM DATE OF FIRST ALLOTMENT on
amount of capital paid up on each share.
TERMS OF PAYMENT:
The Board, after carefully reviewing the present position and the probable trend of values during 1930, have concluded that the policy of the Trust
will be best served and the investing power of shareholders increased to its highest point by calling up the capital in instalments of 2/- per share over a
P The guaranteed interest of 7 per cent: per annum by the Merron Estate Ltd. will be paid upon all instalments received from the investor.
Send for full prospectus and forms of application. Shares may be applied for through members of the Stock Exchange or the Secretary,
Merron Deposit and Investment Trust Limited, 11 Martin Place, Sydney.


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
:!i iig
O 9«
n y
5,1 f!
ffpH 'O IUUu
I
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Tariff. Day. Week.
Single Room and Meals .. .. 25/- 168/-
Double Room and Meals .. ... 45/- 300/-
Single Room and Breakfast .. 15/- 100/-
Double Room and Breakfast .. 27/6 182/6
Telephone: F 4141.
pIMSJPI
> AH3IA
VICHY WATER
‘‘CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled —Insist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
PLAIN AS A
PIKESTAFF
/
-v
are the duplicates pro-
duced with a‘Mephisto’
Copying Pencil.
It lasts much longer
and writes much
smoother without
heavy pressure.
Medium, Hard and
Extra Hard Degrees.
mj THE POPULAR
COPYING PENCILS
Also in 8 colours for checking etc.
From all Stationers, etc.
L. & C. HARDTMT7TH, of “KOH-I-NOOR” Pencil fume,
London Office —2 if, King'sway. W. 0.2
Anstraian Representative
JOHN MACDOUGAbL. P. O. Box 165. SYDNEY.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
THE QUALITY POLISH
KIWI
SETTLING THAT ARGUMENT.
MAID: “It’s ’arf-past nine, sir!”
LODGER: “Good God! Why didn’t you tell me before?”
MAID: “Because it wasn’t, sir.”
‘'lssy G.”: The time seems not far dis-
tant when once again the Queensland swaggie
and the bagman will deign to accept a lift
from the motorist. For years past the
motorist’s proffered lift has met with a nasty
“Open the gates yerself” from the man
on foot. The grids over which one may now
drive without the “get out, open, get in,
drive through, get out, shut, get in, drive
away” business are fast outnumbering the
licensed public gates, each of which opens
a different way from the last, and is latched
by some ingenious contrivance.
* * * *
“The Emu”: “Scran” (B. 14/5/’3O) is
wrong in his correction of “Pick” as to Brer
Rabbit’s missus never
earning the bonus in
the common home. In
places where the ground
is unsuitable for build-
ing the usual breeding-
burrows, the missus
often adds a porch just
off the main hall, cover-
ing the entrance every
time she leaves it. I
have dug out hundreds
of the fur-lined nests
made this way. But
apart from the question
of the whereabouts of
the nursery, can any
member of the Council
tell where the cemetery
is? In all the years I
have kicked about
rabbit-infested country,
I have never seen a
rabbit dead from natu-
ral causes. Nor have
I yet found anyone who
knows what happens to
them. In the north of
South Aus. I have been
in great limestone caves
filled with the remains
of kangaroos, wallabies
and foxes. Also in the
same series of under-
ground holes were un-
told millions of de-
parted bats and a
species of mouse that
used to rent apartments
from them. It is easy
to understand where
the flesh goes, but who
disposes of the countless millions of rabbit
bones is a problem yet to be solved.
* * * *
“Wangaroo”: The signwriter had just
finished painting the board over the top of
Murphy’s store. The proprietor stood in the
middle of the road eyeing the job. “Murphy's
General Store and Machinery Depot,” he
read out, aloud. Then a puzzled look came
into his eyes, and turning to the artist
.Murphy said: “Did ye run out of paint?”
“No,” said the astonished craftsman. “Why?”
“Well,” replied Murphy, “Oi thought ye must
have an’ Oi think so still. Whoi have ye
put that little hat over th’ O in depot, an’
none over th’ one in store? One O’s just as
bald as th’ other.”
* * * *
“Kripple”: To our shearing-shed he came,
looking for work. He got it. His gait, his
pants and bis language earned for him the
title of “Jack Ashore.” With sheep and
wool he was a failure, but he did remark-
ably well as engine-driver—l think he had
been a stoker or a greaser. One day dense
volumes of black smoke such as couldn’t
have been caused by the dry gidya firewood
we used under the boiler came drifting into
the woolroom from the stubby smoke stack.
I went to investigate. The engine-room was
deserted and the furnace was stuffed with
old bags and oily rags. Jack was sitting on
THE SNARES OF A GREAT CITY.
PARSON: “Doesn’t your husband work?”
GIN: “Oh, him-m-m! One time that pfeller work plenty. Then he go longa Sydney—
come back lazy plurry sheik.”
a remote corner post of the sheep yards.
His eyes were riveted to the funnel doing
its dirty job, his expression being that of
one who gazes on distance —great distance.
I spoke harsh words. He replied cheerily:
“Righto Boss, righto! But ain’t she like a
ship at seal”
$ $ $ $
“Rooragai”: Recent floods have provided
easy fishing in many country places. Wheu
lagoons and other iso-
lated waters start to run,
the penned-up shoals
therein make their way
to the river. As the
water flows over grassy
flats the migrating fish
are easily caught with
small scoops made of
netted wire. A few years
ago Gundagai was one
vast fish-shop. The incur-
sion of thick waters from
several creeks turned the
main stream into an inky
torrent, in which fish
quickly sickened or
smothered. They rose to
the surface and gathered
in thousands along the
edges. Tons were scooped
out and taken away in all
sorts of vehicles, from
wheelbarrows to motor-
cars. When the flood
waters receded the river
banks were thickly lined
with yabbies, shrimps,
bream and Murray cod.
The reek of fish through
the land was such that
Gundagai hasn’t got over it yet.
V ¥
“ J.Q.”: “Touchin’ on the sagacity of
dogs.” said Jew-lizard Bill, “there’s th’ case
of Sandy Macpherson, who useter live in
Forbes. After someone burgled ’is ’ouse ’e
went and bought the savagest dog ’c could
find —a terrible big brute with cruel-lookin’
eyes and fangs ’s long’s yer fingers. Sandy
kept ’im on a 15ft. chain, an’ ’e was so
fierce it was dangerous to go inside the gate.
But one day old Dan, th’ bellringer an’
odd-job man, went to Sandy’s innercent
like to try an’ cadge some old clothes. When
Sandy come out th’ dog was lickin’ Dan’s
boots, waggin’ ’is tail, and playin’ round
with ’im like a kitten, and when Dan left
the ’ouse blow me if the dog don’t break
’is chain and foller ’im ’ome. It was no
good Sandy bringin’ ’im back. That dog
simply wouldn’t leave Dan.” “I wonder
why he made up with Dan like that?” 1
asked. Bill blew a cloud of smoke skywards.
“Well, I reckon it was because Dan used t'
work in th’ slaughter-yard now an’ then.
Yer see, some of them Scotchmen are too
stingy t’ give a dog a decent feed —an’ dogs
has a strong sense of smell.”
“Gnaw”: Dad Larkins had long coveted a
bay draught mare owned by Jimmy Lynch,
his neighbor. Young Terry Maguire, whose
place was farther up the gully, wanted the
horse, too ; but Jimmy refused to sell. Then
Jimmy took ill of pleurisy and died. One
morning about three months after Jimmy’s
decease Dad spotted Terry making his way
to the widow Lynch’s place. He hastily
saddled his moke and-rode over. There was
nobody in the house, and Dad poked about
looking for the widow. As he neared the
stable he heard Terry’s voice, saying in a
pleading tone: “Won’t you please accept my
offer?” Dad rushed into the stable. “Don't
accept it till yer’ve had one from me,” he
bellowed. The widow’s face was beet-red.
“But, Mr. Larkins,” she said, “you’re a mar-
ried man.” “What th’ devil’s that got to
do with it?” Dad roared. “We'el, y’ see,
Mister Larkins,” replied the widow, “Terry
here is just after askin’ me t’ marry him.”
“Cripes!” cried Dad in relieved tones, “is
that all? I thought he wus making ye an
offer fer th’ bay mare!”
* * * *
“John Quill” : Everyone could see he was
going to treat her most cruelly as he stood
there, the gleaming knife in his upraised
hand, his face set with grim determination.
Its keen blade had been sharpened to a
razor-like edge the better to do the deed
cleanly, with a few swift cuts. Holding her
in his firm grip, he thrust the knife into
her warm flesh- —once, twice, thrice they saw
the murderous blade sink into her beautiful
brown body, but not a single member of
the family emitted more than a faint mur-
mur of approbation as father carved the
duck for Sunday’s dinner.
;j; *!* '!*
“Weka” : One of the things M.L. visitors
to N.S.W. note is the entliusiatic way the
Dominion’s native koromiko grows in its
new environment. Even in drought areas
its mauve and pink blossoms appear for
three-fourths of the year, and in the recent
dry season on the southern tablelands the
koromiko hedges were about the only things
that boasted a blossom, which is an amaz-
ing performance for a shrub reared in Maori-
land’s rainy climate. By way of fair ex-
change many .Australian trees grow apace
in Maoriland —particularly the blue-gum.
The finest eucalypt I ever saw grows out-
side St. Stephen’s Native College in Auck-
land, and arouses the wonderment of most
Australians w r ho see it.
A LONGSHORE CHANTY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You mightn’t think to look at me that I’m
a jolly sailor lad
(Yo, ho, for tumbling waters and a dirty
night at sea!).
For breeding brought me culture, gave me
airs tha*t never sailor had.
’Twas my nature made a sailor and a
rover out of me.
And down I’ve rolled to Rio (sure you’ve
heard of grand old Rio.
It’s a port in South America where all
windjammers go).
And I’ve luffed it out of Falmouth, out of
good old grimy Falmouth,
With the swelling sail above me and the
heaving deck below!
You mightn’t think to hear me talk that I
could sing a chanty, lad
(Yo, ho, for storm-tossed waters like a
yeast qf Devil’s brew !).
And yet my vocal qualities are none so
weak and scanty, lad,
And here’s a rousing chanty I’ve con-
cocted just for you!
When gathered round the capstan (aye, they
always have a capstan
On clippers, barques and such-like craft
that sail the rolling sea),
The sailors sing them lustily (in ringing
chorus lustily),
And sure was never sailor who could beef
them out like me!
It still is sweet, when comes a breeze with
tang of brine and weediness,
To close these tired eyes of mine. At
once new sights are born;
I see the age-old fight of men with heaving
ocean’s greediness;
I vision frozen clipper-ships rounding the
icy Horn.
I watch a line of ghostly barques, ever a
line of ghostly barques,
Seeking the Roaring Forties, set to run
their Easting down,
And I see the same ships sailing (I see them
still a-sa*iling),
Wheat or wool-bale laden, for the docks
of London Town.
When did I do my sailing? It’s an answer
you require, lad
(Yo, ho, for dreams part-satisfied, for cruel
Destiny!).
I sail the mighty oceans in an armchair
by the fire, lad;
I saw the world about me from the good
ship Library.
I learnt to be a chantyman, a sorry sort of
chantyman,
In manner reprehensible (don’t laugh but
pity me!).
I cribbed from Mr. Brady, both from Souter
and from Brady.
Mine’s the chanty of a sailor who has
never been to sea!
victoria.
COVOT.


The
Hand
in
Need
a
Sale of Skins
is the work of strong, reliable salesmen in market-
ing them. Consign Rabbit, Fox and Other Skins,
Winchcombe. Carson
LTD.
Selling Agents, SYDNEY or BRISBANE.
The firm’s determined, capable efforts never
fail to produce highest possible prices.
Auctions every week Prompt returns
Fair /^
THE GREATEST OF ALL TRADE FAIRS
(TWICE YEARLY.)
Autumn Fair, Incorporating Engineering and
Building Fairs, starts AUGUST 31, 1930
Leipzig Trade
GERMANY
INQUIRIES INVITED, INFORMATION GLADLY GIVEN BY:—
LARS G. BRUNDAHL,
121 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
C. N. KEPPEL,
C/o Marcard Lund & Co., Ltd.,
Post Office Place,
Melbourne, Vic.
“Germany invites the display of Australian Primary Products
for presentation to the World’s Buyers.”
7hp cen/ne of Queen s /onc/s
'cf/sbngutstec/ Soc/oi Life.
motel
BRISBANE
s. Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fains in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Lines.
—
“Dai R.”: Binglii knew something about
the art of torture. His star item in that
line was the caterpillar death, which was
visited almost exclusively on gin-stealers of
an alien tribe. When one of these was caught
he was tied with lawyer-vine or similar
vegetable to a tree, and after being flogged
with switches by the other eligible gins (who
were mostly wild that they hadn’t been
stolen) the contents of a caterpillar’s nest
was showered over his tout ensemble, and
he was left to the society of the crawlers
till next dawn; the avenging tribe listening
gleefully throughout the night to his increas-
ing ravings as the itching grew more and
more intolerable. At dawn the whole tribe,
led by the chief, visited the writhing mass of
froth and blood (the latter from the rippings
of his own finger-nails and frantic rubbing
against the tree trunk). After being elo-
quently addressed by the chief on the iniquity
of gin-stealing, the victim was again flogged
by the gins until he died. The delinquent
gin was treated more mercifully. She was
clubbed to death on capture.
# * * *
“Awani”: The crow, or what Australians
call a crow, is relished by the Chinese. The
POOR PRISCILLA.
“Oh, she’m a party little baby. She’ve got her fanther’s eyes
and her mawther’s nose.”
“Well, what Priscilla will do without that nose to pawk into
awther people’s ’fairs, I dawn’t knaw.”
other day when I was taking the head off
one that ! had shot near the road, Wung
Su happened along in his vegetable cart.
“Sellem bird?” he asked. “How mucky?”
“Bob,” I said “Light,” said John, and
held out a shilling. “What will you do with
him?” I inquired. “Cook ’im,” replied
Wung, and licked his lips. Before he jogged
on he made arrangements with me to bring
him in as many crows as I could shoot next
time I went into Moree (N.S.W.), where
he lived, at the bob tariff. It suits me all
right. I get a shilling a head from the
P. P. Board, and Wung gives the same sub-
sidy on the body. All the same, it seems to
me dear tucker.
TOO MUCH GENEROSITY.
"Are you the man who gave my little boy a dog yesterday?”
"Yes.”
"Well, come and take them away.”
“Cooramin”: A curious natural reservoir
of the dry interior parts of this continent
is the night well, known to the abos. as
narriwadgee. The well is small, and con-
tains water only at
night time. To a
prospector it _ is a
great find, as it pro-
vides sufficient for
himself and horses
when no other water
is available. He
draws his supplies
late at night, or
very early in the
morning, for as soon
as the day begins to
get warm the water
disappears into the
earth. An inexperi-
enced traveller who
chanced upon one at
“low tide” would
think he had found
it just too late and
pass on, whereas the
man who knows
would unpack and
wait for the tide to
rise. All the wells
are known to the
blacks, who care-
fully guard the
secret of their
whereabouts. One of
their legends is to
the effect that a
giant frog lives in a
rockhole under-
ground. In the day-
time he swallows a
tremendous lot of
water to keep him-
self cool, and dis-
gorges it at night.
If the frog died, the
overflow would be
absorbed by the hot,
dry earth during the
day, and there would be no more narri-
wadgee.
=i : * $
“Karaway”: Saw an old swaggie the other
day in George-street, Sydney. A dog fol-
lowed him with two billycans, one inside
the other, in his mouth. When the old fel-
low stopped a moment to look at a window
display the dog put down the billies and
sat panting alongside, at the same time
keeping a sharp eye on pedestrians who
passed close to the tinware. At times when
the handle dropped down he had to do some
manoeuvring to get hold of it again, but he
was never in a hurry, never flurried, and
treaded the busy thoroughfare without, bump-
ing anybody with the utensils. Neither was
he disturbed by the town dogs he encoun-
tered, though lie sometimes emitted a low
growl,’ and directed a scinti llaiting side-
glance at those that tried to chum up with
him, regarding them apparently as suspi-
cious characters who wanted to take him
down for his billycans. His boss stopped at
every butcher’s shop, and asked for a bit
of meat for the dog. “It always works,” he
remarked as he came out with a parcel and
pointed to the can-carrier.
* # * *
“Cet”: Suva in the Fijis has been much
exercised over an invasion of large fish, some
30 odd of which piled themselves up on the
beach of the
town’s favorite
bathing resort. As
they speedily be-
came an offence to
Heaven under the
tropical sun, the
local Council had
to spend a lot of
good money on
burying the crea-
tures. It is pretty
certain that they
were what is
known as school
whales. The
beasts are found
all over the world,
and have a pecu-
liar habit of com-
ing ashore in this
fashion every now
and then. A
couple of years ago
a huge school
stranded itself in
similar fashion in
the north of Scot-
land. Why they
do so is not clear,
though in the
Suva instance the
fact that many
were badly bitten
suggests they were
escaping from
attackers. Sharks
are blamed, but it is more likely that the
remorseless killer whale, beside whom the
shark is a baa-lamb in the matter of fero-
city, was the aggressor.
“Eureka”: Long Ned was reading a news-
paper that mentioned something about the
discovery of a new goldfield being the sal-
vation of this country. “I don’ suppose any
of you blokes ever heard of a man usin’
rabbits for minin’ gold?” he asked. Nobody
interrupted, so he went on. “I was trappin’
on th’ South Coast at Wolumla and was
settin’ a trap at the mouth of a burrow when
1 spots a small nugget of pure gold. It
muster come from inside the burrow. I
washes all the dirt lyin’ round an’ gets a
pickle-bottle full er gold. Each mornin’ I
washes the dirt that rabbit had dug over-
night and gets gold every day. I was
makin’ a fortune, but at last the rabbit he
must have woke up to what I was doin’,
because he suddenly stopped puttin’ dirt out.
I reckon he used to carry mouthfuls of it
out and run away and hide it somewhere.
Anyway, I saw him cornin’ out one night
with his cheeks bulgin’, so I got disgusted
and shot him.”
* * * *
“Clement R. d’Uppe”: Macmillan Brown’s
theory that Easter Island was once the
centre of an archipelago empire was given
some confirmation by the soundings made in
1928 by Captain Ault of the Carnegie, who.
with his ship, was destroyed in Apia Harbor
by an explosion some time ago. Ault’s sound-
ings disclosed scores of submarine islands in
the vicinity, and he also discovered a ridge
a mile high extending towards the north of
the South Pacific coast of America, and
another, almost as high, running towards the
south-west of that coast.
* * * *
“Tributer” : Nature moves in a mysterious
way sometimes. Many bees, for instance, lose
their lives in the white blossoms of the man-
devillea, for once their heads are inside the
flowers they cannot be withdrawn. But the
flowers get no benefit from the bees, for they
die soon after their victims.
❖ Hi Hi
“Wang”: “The funniest beer-drinkin’ ckam-
poenship I ever seen,” remarked Larry the
Liar, “was at Tim Ryan’s pub at Bilboo
Gully between Andy Burns an’ Mick
McGrath. The pair had been there all day,
lappin’ it up, an’ they was pretty near
stonkered. They gets inter an argyment as
to which could drink the most beer, an’ the
upshot was they handed Ryan a quid each,
th’ winner to take th’ lot. They decided
to have th’ go there an’ then, in spite of
the fact that they were hardly able to
stand. It wus arranged that as each one
emptied his pot he should make a stroke on
th’ wall under his name, which was written
up there. Ryan pulls two pots, an’ down
they went, an’ each put a stroke under his
name. A couple more pots were called for.
After a while these went down, an’ another
stroke went under each name. Then Mick
slumped on to a form an’ went to sleep.
Andy was pretty far gone, too, but he man-
aged to call fer another pot an’ get it down.
He was just able to tick up another stroke
on th’ wall, and then he flopped on th’ sofa,
dead to the world. At closin’ time
Ryan wakes ’em up. They sits there fer a
few minutes lookin’ at each other like boiled
owls, an’ one of th’ blokes reminds ’em of
their bet. They gits up an’ peers at the
strokes on the wall. Then Mick gives a
chokin’ sorter gasp as his eyes light on
THE HARDER THE WORK THE
BETTER THE PAY.
POSSIBLE EMPLOYER: “But you’re asking for
a rather high wage seeing that you know
nothing about the work?”
APPLICANT: “Yes, but you see not knowin’ the work makes it so
much harder for me”
Andy’s three strokes alongside the two under
his name. ‘Goramighty!’ he moans as he
staggers to the door; ‘one hundred an’ eleven
ter eleven—beaten by a hundred!’ ”
A TOUCHY COVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“There’s times,” said Bill, “when any man
’as reasons to get ’ot,
For in this world of ups an’ downs you ’ave
to bear a lot.
But some chaps take offence too quick. It’s
Joe I ’ave in mind;
A cove as sensitive as ’im I never thought
to find.
“Last Thursday week outside the pub I ’ad
a word with ’im.
I merely says: ‘Look ’ere, ole man, you’d
better watch your Jim.
The big galoot spends ’arf ’is time a-’ang-
ing round my place,
I wouldn’t ’ave a son-in-law with sich an
ugly face.
“”E brings the cowyards on ’is boots,’ I
. says, ‘when ’e comes in.
’E never speaks, but only gives a sickly
sorter grin.
'E sits an’ rolls ’is cigarettes an’ spits upon
the ’ob.
Be cripes, no gal o’ mine would ’ave that
’efty, ’opeless yob.’
“Would yer believe it! ’E got ’ot—jumped
orf ’is bloomin’ bike.
In all me blessed livin’ days I never met
the like.
An’ orl for nothin’! ’Oly smoke, I dunno
where ’e’ll end
When ’e can’t take, without offence, a kind
’int from a friend.”
VICTORIA.
P. T. F.


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydney!
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
TRAVEL IN COMFORT
with a
VICARS ALL-WOOL
TRAVELLING RUG
These Rugs are of the same high quality as
VICARS’ WORSTED SUITINGS
Manufactured by—
JOHN VICARS & CO., LIMITED,
MARRICKVILLE, N.S.W.
m
National
Hotel
BRISBANE
TARIFF RATES-For Rooms Only
Room for one person, from 8/- to 10/- per day.
Room for two persons, from 16/-to 20/-per day.
Room with private bathroom, for one person from
12/6 to 20/- per day.
Room (large), with balcony and private hath, for
two persons, 25/- per day.
Suite, balcony bedroom, sitting room, with
private bathroom, for two persons 30/- per day.
Every Room is equipped with Telephone,
Bedside Light, Hot and Cold Running Water
Conducted on the European plan by—
ROWES LTD.
HOTEL and CAFE PROPRIETORS
Write for Illustrated Folder
Address Manager
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CR PARK & CASTLERAGH STS SYDNEY
ANOTHER SELF-CONTAINED FARM.
“Mudgee”: There is a man in the Quirindi
(N.S.W.) district who believes that too much
produce is sold off the land and that much
more should be used on it. In trying to live
up to his belief he sends very little of his
wheat away, and none of his oats. About
half of each area is cut for hay, and the
wheat harvested. for grain is fed to pigs,
fowls and large stock, being either ground
up with a hand machine or boiled. The
oats harvested for grain he mixes with the
hay for horsefeed. Incidentally, the horses
in work are always in good condition.
Milk, butter and cheese are produced
in abundance on the farm. Bacon, poultry
and eggs are always available; so is mutton,
and there is no lack of veal in season, or
pork. Vegetables and fruit are also on
hand all the year round, and honey is got
from half a dozen hives.
The chief article sold is wool. It is not
a big place, but the wool cheque, plus what
produce fetches, is more than enough to pay
for clothes, the few groceries needed, in-
terest, rates, taxes, the radio license and
petrol and spares for the car. The interest
will soon cease.
SCRUB FEEDING.
‘Trepex”: Pastoradists have often had
occasion to bless the nutritive value of edible
scrubs, such as kurrajong, wilga, mulga,
myall, willow, currant bush, gidya and
whitewood, but it is absurd to expect emer-
gency rations to give the same results as
normal ones. While they will preserve life and
health in sheep or cattle for a limited period,
they will not give a properly balanced food
for any considerable time. In any case, such
provision alone is not suitable for lambing
ewes.
A wise man therefore helps through the
emergency ration with a little hay once or
twice a* week, and the value of the scrub is
enhanced by the addition of small quantities
of meal or grain concentrates, or salt or
molasses in the form of a lick. These a*ct
as a corrective to the digestive organs of
the animal. A well-proportioned lick adjunct
to scrub feeding would be: 1 part Epsom
salts; 1 part Liverpool salt and 4 parts
molasses, 4 to 8 ounces being allowed per
sheep per day.
Sulphate of iron is a good tonic in normal
seasons, but should not be used with scrub
feeding, as it is astringent in its action and
tends towards producing constipation.
SHEARING-SIIED CHUTES.
“Kripple”: When having a shearing-shed
built give particular attention to the chutes
from board to count-out pens, particularly
if the shed is well above ground-level. Don’t
have them at an angle that will cause the
sheep to be literally catapulted to earth
again after shearing. Broken legs and other
injuries can, and often do, result from this
fault.
The slope should be such that just suffi-
cient way is given to carry the live mutton
gently to the bottom. It may cost a bit
extra for timber, but it is worth it. Many
shearers have been wrongly accused of ill-
using sheep limping from counting-out pens:
the chute is mostly the culprit. Sometimes
it is imperative to put ewes in lamb through
the shed for crutching or other treatment.
It is then the full benefit of well-designed
chutes will accrue.
SCIENCE AND THE DAIRY-FARMER.
“Spencer G.”: Lecturing in Adelaide,
recently on science in relation to the dairying
industry, Professor Richardson, of the Waite
Agricultural Research Institute, gave a
striking illustration of the results of (1)
sound and (2) slipshod farming methods,
expressed in yields.
In one of the richest dairying districts
in Australia some farmers are securing
2501 b. of butter-fat per cow; others less than
801 b. per cow. This difference is not due
to the 2501 b. men having better land; the
less-than-SOlb. men a*re neighbors. It is
due to superior skill in breeding, feeding and
management generally. What a lesson to
slipshod farmers everywhere!
Professor Richardson has a high opinion
of our Australian dairying country. In
no other part of the world, he says, Maori-
land excepted, are the natural and climatic
conditions so favorable to heavy production.
The handicap of distance from the over-
seas market is counterbalanced by the fact
that most of the products required for the
nutrition of the cow can be raised on the
farm. But the output can be decidedly
improved by better methods of pasture
utilisation of the wonderful
flush of grass in the spring and early sum-
mer, supplementing of the pasture during
periods of nutritional stress, more adequate
provision for fodder crops, individual feed-
ing of high milk producers, more wide-
spread use of production-bred bulls, and
extension of herd-testing. There is need,
however, for further investigational work
on the production and manufacturing side.
The Professor, incidentally, had been tour-
ing the Northern Rivers district of N. S.
Wales just prior to delivering his lecture.
THE HUNDRED AND TWENTY LIMIT.
“Grunter”: You still meet the farmer
who laments the good old days when fac-
tories took 2001 b. pigs. “Look at the price
you could get for one pig,” he says. The
fact is that the 1201 b. limit is all in the pro-
ducer’s favor. The older and heavier the
pig the more expensive the gain.
As live weight increases the greater the
quantity of feed required to maintain the
pig at his existing weight. Five pounds of
corn or its equivalent will produce a pound
of gain in a young pig; it will take nearly
that to keep a 2001 b. pig at that poundage,
The younger they are when they reach the
1201 b. (dressed weight) the more profitable.
Therefore bump them along from the word
“go.” A pig that is putting on IMb. per day
is showing more profit per pound of feed
eaten than one that is dawdling along at
lib. or less.
HANDLING PIGS.
“Bendee”: “Grunter” (B. 2/7/’3O) must
be thinking in lightweights. He writes of
his pen of stores being shooed up the race in
one_ stampede, and I’ll give that in—for
active stores. But take a pen of hefty
baconers or back-fatters. Will they gallop
up the race en masse? Has “G.” never met
the other fat grunter (nothing personal
meant) that sits in the race and refuses
to do anything but slide down backwards ?
It is to cope with these sorts that I advo-
cate the hurdle and the corn cob. I do not
offer the corn cob as an inducement;' apply
it at the other end.
Ljke “Grunter’s” carter, I have handled
thousands of pigs a year, carting and truck-
ing to the saleyards, and working at the
yards, but my toughest experience was gained
among the brumby pigs around Moree, and
in south Queensland, and later in Galong.
Lots of these wild brutes had snouts sug-
gesting an elephant’s trunk, and necks recall-
ing a giraffe’s. I always used the fore-leg
grip, and I have never been bitten. It is
easier to grab and hold the pig that way
even when it is running than to try the hind
leg. I should like to see “Grunter” holding an
active heavyweight by the tail on a wet
slippery day. Imagine hoisting a 2001 b.
live-weight over a* fence with your arm round
his brisket! When holding a pig by the hind
leg, one usually parts with a lot of useful
knuckle-bark per medium of the other hind
foot.
WIRE-NETTING FENCES.
“Fairfield”: An economical way of erect-
ing a 6ft. wire-netting fence (sawn timber)
is to have 4x2 corner-posts and 3xl
battens as intervening posts. Cut the latter
into Bft. lengths, and nail similar-sized
pieces 22in. long to the bottoms of the in-
tended posts. That makes the butts 3x2.
Keep the tops of posts level 6ft. 2in.
out of the ground, and bore holes through
centres 2in. from the top, through which a
12-gauge fencing-wire is strained. To this
wire the netting is hung. A roll of wire-
netting is wider at one end than the other,
so it is advisable to hang the shorter side
to the top, and to straighten the netting
down instead of lifting upwards.
A HANDY FARM CART.
“Goomarin”: A runaway wrecked the cart
we had on our Westralian farm. A new
one would have cost £2O, so we made one
of our own, the materials being two old
cultivator wheels, one heavy axle, a set of
springs, side supports from the old cart,
old squared timber for body, bush
shafts, and bolts. The only cost was £1 for
turning the tapered axles to fit the cultivator
wheels. (If you can’t get the job done on
a big lathe, it will be 10s. extra for cutting
and welding the axle.) The work took two
of us two days, but they were wet days.
The cart is nearly a foot lower than the
usual spring cart. It will take a ton, and
the difference in- height ma*kes it excellent
for carting seed, super., oil-drums, wire-
netting and so forth. The width of the
wheels means easy pulling in the mud. There
is no need to operate on the tyres at inter-
vals, and broken spokes, if any, can be
replaced in 10 minutes. The thing is a trifle
low for heavy draught horses, but is just
right for mediums.
Several neighbors are making similar
vehicles. One is using bush poles for the
body instead of squared timber, and has fixed
a prop under the back cross-beam as a
support for heavy loading.
OUT-BACK KITCHEN GARDENS.
“Atriplex”: A few hints that might help
“Cam H.” (B. 25/6/’3O) and others who
find it hard to grow fruit and vegetables out
back. Tlie art of using any water containing
salts in solution lies in keeping the water-
ings down to a minimum consistent with good
growth. Every gallon that is applied to the
soil leaves its quota of salts there, and these
accumulate with successive waterings. The
same applies to bore water which runs into
a creek. Though it may contain only a very
low percentage of salts as it leaves the cas-
ing, through continual evaporation and refill-
ing the creek acts as a concentrating vat, and
the proportion of dissolved matter increases
enormously. Therefore if you can possibly
do so, get the water direct from the bore-
head or drain.
After planting the seeds, cover them with
a good mulch of grass or leaves, and use ra<in
water until the plants are big enough to flood.
If rain water is short, use bore water,
but follow up with a can of rain water to
wash it off. This is especially necessary whetn
the plants a*re very young, as the deposit
left by the evaporation of the bore water
scorches the leaves and young stems.
Plant thickly so that the leaves will shade
the ground, and, above all, keep the waterings
down by every possible means. Little and
often is no good. One soaking a week should
be enough during spring and autumn, less in
winter. Don’t try to grow things in the
height of summer; you’ll only get disgusted.
Make your beds small and sunken to stop
run-off, and grow lettuce, beet, carfots and
the like in clumps rather than in rows. When
you find a patch of soil is becoming spoiled,
move on to another place. Certain plants are
more tolerant of boi’e water than others; find
out the ones that do best and stick to them.
The best site, ground being suitable, for a
vegetable plot is on the eastern aspect of
a fence or building, sheltered from dry west-
erlies and favored with the morning suii.
Fruit trees present a more difficult problem,
as they must remain where they are planted.
Here the overflow of house tanks can be used,
and there are bound to be some sheltered
corners where a grape-vine would flourish.
Treatment of water and soil depends upon
the salt causing the trouble. It will be
either carbonate of soda or common salt. The
first makes the water soft; the second makes
it hard. Gypsum or calcium sulphate will
neutralise carbonate of soda in the water,
forming carbonate of lime and sulphate of
soda. It will also bring soil that has been
spoiled with alkaline water back to good
tilth. The water can be treated in a tank
prior to use, or the following arrangement
would give good results with a small garden.
Take the lid off an oil-drum and make a hole
in the side near the top. Put some gypsum
in the bottom of the drum and let the hose
go right down into it. The water will then
take up some gypsum before it leaves the
drum via the top hole.
Lime and ashes are useless when dealing
with alkali waters, as they only add more
alkali, but plenty of sheepyard manure is
a good thing.
If common salt is causing the trouble there
is no chemical means of rectifying it. The
water might be made more usable by filtering
through sand, if you can think out a moans of
doing so, and move to new ground every
season.
THE TOMATO CROP.
“Bar K.”: The planting of the season’s
tomato crop is at hand in N. S. Wales.
Tomatoes, given a fair yield and price, can
be among the most profitable crops grown,
but, like potatoes, are very susceptible to
certain diseases. The two crops should
never follow one another in rotation.
Before planting, have the ground worked
deep, and let the plants have lots of room
to allow of thorough cultivation. Give your
land plenty of food according to the require-
ments of the district, and work the crop
as long and as frequently as possible. Pull
out and destroy all weedy or sick plants—
they will never pay and may be carriers of
disease.
As for diseases, spotted or bronze wilt can
be prevented by keeping the ground clear
of weeds before and after planting. For
Fusarium wilt there is no remedy, except to
destroy all plants showing the symptoms
and take care not to plant tomatoes again
on the same ground. Irish' blight can some-
times be controlled by frequent sprayings
with Bordeaux mixture, but usually the
weather conditions during which the disease
appears hampers spraying operations; as a
rule, Irish blight is death to the crop. An
even water supply will help to control black
spot, as also will deep ploughing and con-
tinuous working during the life of the plant.
A CHAMPION POTATO-GROWER.
“Hortus” : It is always wise to study the
methods of the winner of a representative
agricultural competition, and those followed
by the farmer who carried off first prize
in the R.A.S. competition, held in the
Western Division (N.S.W.) strike me as
particularly sound. His rotation scheme
was: Potatoes, wheat-for-grain, potatoes.
An excellent combination; better than
potatoes, oats, potatoes. The main consti-
tuent of the potato is potash. Oats are
heavier potash-feeders than wheat, and do
not root so deeply, so they must deprive the
potatoes, which are surface-feeders, of more
of this ash food than wheat does.
As for soil preparation, the land was
ploughed late August and harrowed immedi-
ately to conserve moisture; the same pro-
cedure was followed in middle October, and
seed was sown late in November. The time
of fallowing was thus three months, and
this was the secret of success. Conservation
of moisture is of the first importance in
potato culture. Plough early and deep (as
deep as topsoil will allow), harrow immedi-
ately ; leave fallow as long as circumstances
permit; a month before sowing plough again
(shallow this time), harrow immediately, and
your land will bo in first-class condition.
Whole seed was dropped after
a plough in rows about 27 to the chain.
Other competitors ran from 32 down to 22.
Of course, it all depends upon the class of
soil and on how it has been worked, but 30 is
a good mark to a*im for. Whole seed is
the most satisfactory; there is too much risk
attached to cut seed. One competitor dipped
cut seed in formalin solution. It’s a risky
business unless care is taken to use a fairly
weak solution (1 to 500) and to plant
treated seed damp in well-worked ground.
No fertiliser was used by tlie winner:
others drilled in 2cwt. of super, per acre
a<bout a fortnight before sowing. Unless
the soil is poor there is really no need for
fertiliser if proper cultivation and fallowing
are carried out. A six-ton crop takes out of
the soil 671 b. of nitrogen, 241 b. of phosphoric
acid and 801 b. of potash. There is sufficient
potash in most Australian soils for the pur-
pose.
The winning plot was harrowed immedi-
ately after sowing, and again on Jan. 1
(a month later) after rain. This working of
surface to enable more uniform conservation
of moisture should always be carried out; it
can be done right up to the time the young
plants are showing through. It not only
maintains a nice loose mulch, but prevents
weed-growth.
MARKETING ORANGES.
“Canterbury”: The grower is the best
judge of whether an orange is ripe or not,
but he doesn’t always choose to exercise
his expert knowledge. The temptation to
pick fruit prematurely with the object of
obtaining a shilling or two extra per case is
seldom resisted. In California a regulation
forbids the marketing of fruit having a lower
solids-acid figure than eight. In other words,
the juice must contain at least eight parts
of sugar (solids) to one part of acid, cal-
culated as citric acid.
In immature fruit the proportion of acid
to sugars is high; as the orange ripens the
acidity decreases and the sugar content
increases. An immature orange with a solids-
acid figure of six will have somewhere about
50 per cent, of rind, with 25 per cent, of pulp
and 25 per cent, of juice. The perfectly
mature fruit, with a solids-acid figure of
20, has only 25 per cent, of rind, associated
with 35 per cent, of pulp and 40 per cent,
of juice. Naturally, the higher the solids-
acid figure the sweeter the orange, which
means greater palatibility and food value
and hence increased consumption. Con-
sumers become aware that the luscious
mature fruit is the cheapest.
The Californian standard, based on trials
with Washington navels and Valencias off
my own trees, is not to be regarded as the
proportion of sugar to acid in a mature
orange; it is rather a standard for market-
ing of good early oranges. The same fruit,
with a few more weeks on the tree, would
develop a sugar-acid figure of probably 20.
The system in Australia is to regulate mar-
keting by determining the acidity of the
orange juice by titration with soda solution.
The test is simple, and solutions and appa-
ratus may be readily obtained from the local
chemist. The apparatus consists of an ordi-
nary lemon-squeezer, a small nainsook bag, a
10-c.c. measure, a solution of decinormal
soda, a phenolphalein indicator (a small
bottle of 1 p.c. solution), a 50-c.c. burette
and a glass tumbler. Squeeze an orange and
strain pulp and juice through the nainsook
bag into the 10-c.c. measure. Transfer
exactly 10-c.c. of the juice into the glass
tumbler and add five drops of the indicator
solution. Fill the burette to the 50-c.c.
(Continued on page 25.)


Improved—but fundamentally unchanged the Chevrolet
Six now offers even greater value —value unapproached
fd
u
Never have you seen
so much value
cars at such low
in such attractive
• • • •
cost
X he Chevrolet \alue Chart
Check them off with other cars Point by Point
10 checking points to low-
priced motor car value .. .
□
For the protection of your hard-earned money
answer here YES or NO as to whether any other
low-priced car offers these Chevrolet Six features.
After you make your answers, make your purchase.
fdjfd
The Improved Chevrolet Six Product of General Motors Australia
This Chart proves
the value you get —
check it over.
a car with the record of Chev-
rolet would dare suggest such a
challenging comparison as you will find
in the Chevrolet Value Chart. Here, for
the first time, are summarised the fea-
tures everybody wants, and should get,
in a car of Chevrolet’s price class.
Your local dealer will take you now
for a free demonstration ride in the Im-
proved Chevrolet Six. For your own
satisfaction check its value on the Chart.
You will find that no other car in Chev-
rolet’s price class gives you so much
for your money.
Chevrolet’s petrol economy is proved
—454 Chevrolet Sixes under everyday
conditions averaged 29.75 miles per gallon.
Seven body styles, in two series:
Suburban, with disc wheels; Club, with
five wire wheels. The G.M.A.C. Terms
Plan simplifies purchasing.
Buy from jour Local Dealer.
GENERAL MOTORS (AUSTRALIA)
PTY. LTD.
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth.
“More Wealth for Australia —
More Jobs for Australians ”
Metropolitan Dealers:
BRISBANE:
Metropolitan Motors, Ltd.,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
John McGrath, Ltd.,
155 Elizabeth Street.
MELBOURNE:
Stokoe Motors Pty., Ltd.,
559-565 Elizabeth Street.
ADELAIDE:
City Motors, Ltd.,
95 Waymouth Street.
Skipper
Ltd.,
PERTH:
Bailey Motor Co.,
900 Hay Street.
£
V 1
J
I
The Improved Chevrolet Six


Your choice
means
much to them
0
i\
M
m
J3l
*x!3
nm
Si
gig
awu uni
gasa
■■■
.A
m
••:•'.•• v:
■.:•••
. .V.vv. :.-. :••,
lii?
:::
: .V.V
1
P
£
V
i/' hi/
m
£
jr&j&
f
il
I
fe:
• •••
W
Vvi
5A\
W
£
.Ml*
•*:1
if
: ; V
••vo-
ri*A
•••**•**
I
&
rtvv
L
:-.v
s.v.
•*.v
.1
Y'OU may think the drink you order
means nothing in the finances of your
country —in the welfare of your fellow
citizens , But it does—?
On your choice, much depends! In
a nip of Old Court Whisky is con-
tained the barley of Australian
farms, produced and handled by
tens of thousands of Australians;
the work of an army of maltsters;
the patient research and skill of
specialist chemists; the produce and
labours of coopers, bottle-makers,
printers, case-makers, bottlers,
labellers, corkers, carriers, together
with thousands in other industries
contributing their skilled efforts.
If you order imported whisky—so much
is lost to them—so much less able is their
industry to support them—so much less
revenue can the industry itself provide
for the national coffers.
And as more and more are learning-
patriotism is not the sole appeal to A US'
tralians to drink Old Court.
Its claim u The World’s Purest” has never
been challenged. It is accepted by com
noisseurs as equal to the world’s best in
flavour and in mature mellowness.
♦
■*- £/kc Vorlcfc Purest,
THE NATION’S FIRST FAVORITE


■Q/n
ots
C- 4 i!j %S/' ,Ss ssasE®»«'>ifii-'' <£»\>
Supple, light and
restful
The pliant calf used for the
upper of this toe-capless
Abbey Shoe is most comfort-
able of all leathers to wear. It
is smart and glossy as well.
Low-cut sides strainless
lacing curve over instep arch
.... tough, flexible 501 e....
everything necessary for foot
comfort is found in this prac-
tical shoe. It is the ideal type
for aching feet.
Three widths per size.
ORDER BY POST.—Both full and
half sizes available—each in narrow,
medium or wide fitting. Specify
width and length. Ask, also, for
the correct Abbey preservative
polish (6d. per tin), or a convenient
cleaning outfit (2/6).
Tan Willow Calf . . 39/6
Black Box Calf . . 37/6
Sports catalogue post free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years,
313 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
FPL 185
The Gilchrist
Patent
Stock Feeder
ECONOMICAL!
EFFICIENT!
WEATHERPROOF!
This feeder provides-a complete solution oi
all the troubles associated with the old-time
methods of artificial feeding.
It will feed Grain, Chaff and Meggitt’s Nuts
with equal facility.
It is constructed of heavy-gauge galvanised-
iron throughout, and is light, strong, and
riveted in every joint. One man can tip ft
over and roll it to any desired position. The
feed is regulated by means of a centre screw,
which adjusts the opening to permit any
required quantity to drop into the trough, at
the base. By this means the sheep get con-
stant fresh feed. The bin projects four inches
beyond the trough, thus protecting the feed
from wind and rain.
Light in weight, labor-saving, and guaranteed
weatherproof.
Made in two sizes-—6ft. 6in. diameter and
4ft. 6in. diameter. The small size has a
capacity of approximately 6 bags chaff and
will feed from 18-20 sheep at one time.
Price, £ll/10/-
The small size is recommended for stud or
horned sheep.
Instructions are sent with each feeder.
Prices are F.O.R. or F. 0.8., Melbourne.
CH«£RS
234-236 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
278-294 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy.
And at WARRNAMBOOL, BENDIGO,
HORSHAM, BALLARAT and PORTLAND,
VICTORIA.
Lubricate
your machinery
as you do your car
by the
TecalemiT
High Pressure System
TECALEMIT SERVICE STATIONS:
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street Perth
Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street •• • Adelaide
Keep Bros. & Woods Pty., Ltd., Bateman Street ...... Melbourne
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street Sydney
Martin, Wilson Bros., Ltd., 299 Adelaide Street Brisbane
Factory Representative: Mr. JAMES THORNELL, 312 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
TECALEMIT, LTD., Mitre House, Scrubbs Lane, London, N.W. 10., England.
VMS
A cheque is a passport to business consideration.
A cheque is a receipt in itself. The whole of the
modern fabric of trading and production is based
on cheque payments.
Get into cheque circles with a bank deposit!
Have a Bank Account—Keep it Growing.
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS BANK OF
AUSTRALIA, LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 12 MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth and at London.
m
"JUJJa
mark with the soda solution and gradually
run the soda into the juice, stirring well
meanwhile with a clean stick or pencil until
the solution in the tumbler turns to a deep
purple red. Now read on the burette the
number of c.c.’s of soda required. The regu-
lation says 27 c.c.’s, but the less used the
better.
Growers who rush immature fruit to the
market spoil the demand and have their
brands “marked” by the trade. Within
limits the longer an orange hangs on the
tree the better.
POTASH IN THE ORCHARD.
“S. Quire”: Orcliardists should not con-
demn potash ■ fertilisers because they cannot
observe any increase in the yield. Should
your apple-tree show increased shoot growth
(which often follows nitrogenous manuring),
leaf scorch or defoliation of the shoots, give
them sulphate of potash, top-dressed at the
rate of 2cwt. per acre. Now is the time to
apply it.
It is far better to ward off disease than
to wait until it comes along and then work
(and worry) over methods of control. My
trees (apples, pears, prunes, plums and
citrus) are treated biennially with a dessert-
spoon of finely powdered bluestone, broadcast
under the tree in the autumn. The trees are
from five to nine years of age, and are sin-
gularly free from fungus complaints. I
believe that the ever-prevalent copper in the
trees is decidedly beneficial, and would not
dream of departing from my method.
MAKING UP TOOL-HANDLES.
“Bert the Carpenter” : Let me add a few
words to “Booraby’s” remarks (B. 28/5/’3O)
on wood for tool handles. Having selected
a young, sound, straight-grained tree, fell it
and cut the trunk into lengths six inches
longer than those of the handles required.
Next bark these logs, and while the wood is
still green split them with maul and wedges
into four quarters. Stack these pieces up
in a cool dry place, out of any direct sun-
light, and leave to season for a year.
To make into handles, split slivers off
until the piece of wood is nearly of the
required size—this makes sure of getting the
grain straight in the finished article. Next
dress down with a wheelwright’s hatchet,
level off bumps with a plane or spokeshave,
round with a coarse rasp, and to finish off
buy a cabinet-maker’s scraper. This is a
most useful little tool, being a piece of thin
steel a few inches square; cost, postage
included, should not exceed Is. To sharpen
it, file one edge to a bevel, then hold a chisel
blade—or any other hard, smooth piece of
steel—at right angles to the scraper blade,
press hard on the bevel, and rub up and
down a few times. This burrs the scraper
edge over, the burred edge is used in the
same way as the edge of a piece of broken
glass.
Any man with the knack of using tools can
easily turn out half a dozen handles in a
day. It’s a good wet-weather job, and the
money saved makes it worth while.
PAINTING ON THE FARM.
“Jack Point”: I recently received an order
from a country customer for two kegs of
white lead, eight gallons of raw linseed oil
and sufficient color to make the whole a
dark chocolate. Such orders are common,
and evidently a strong prejudice exists
against ready-mixed paint. Yet it is much
the best, except where the user has had a
lot of experience and is buying in large
quantities. If a-farmer buys a well-known
brand at a fair price, he is choosing wisely.
With linseed oil at 6s. 6d. a gallon and
white lead or red oxide at 15s. a keg or
more, there is little saving by mixing one’s
own paint. And any experienced painter
will tell you that you can’t hope to mix the
paint as well as a modern factory can do
it with machinery.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
What is pearl barley? How is it grown
and where? —7251.
It is not a particular type of barley, but
a preparation of barley grains from which
the outer portions are removed. Good pearl
barley has no hull or bran. It is necessary
that there should be no weather damaged or
cracked grain, as this will not pearl satis-
factorily. The larger grained two-rowed
types of barley are the most suitable for
pearling. Full information regarding the
cultivation of barley will be found in a
free pamphlet issued by N.S.W. Agriculture
Department, Sydney.
Can I ei'adicate patches of couch grass by
spraying with a poison that will not render
the soil infertile? —7435.
The N.S.W. Agriculture Dept, has made
successful experiments with sodium chlorate
as a weedicide. This is not very injurious
to the soil, and after a month or two the
land can be used for other plants. Send for
free bulletins.
(1) What Crown land suitable for potato
growing is available in Tas ? (2) In what
districts, and at what prices and terms?
(3) What are the prospects? —7sls.
(1) Land available is heavily timbered,
and takes many years of work before it is
in condition. Probably cleared land can be
obtained at moderate prices from private
owners. (2) North-west coast area Grown
land is sold at ss. to £1 per acre on terms
of 24 years for land sold at £1 per acre and
14 years if the price is less than £1 per
acre. (3) Can’t say, but potatoes are. a
staple commodity, and they aren’t being
over-produced anywhere in the world.
(1) Which is the cheaper method of com-
mencing poultry-farming: to purchase and
rear day-old chicks or to purchase pullets
ready to lay? (2) How many layers are
required in order to make a living? (3) Is
less capital required, to start poultry-farm-
ing than other forms of farming? If not,
what forms require less? —7199.
(1) Best and cheapest method is to pur-
chase good quality breeding stock and to
build up a flock of layers from these. It
is doubtful whether good laying pullets
could be purchased at a price which would
be remunerative. The purchase of day-old
chicks eliminates only the necessity of run-
ning incubators. (2 ) 700 to 800. (3) The
value of buildings and plant to run and
maintain a flock of 800 layers is approxi-
mately £6OO. Five acres of suitable land
is required, and it would take two years to
bring the farm into full profit. The only
rural occupation requiring a comparably
small capital is vegetable-growing, but in
that case there are so many factors to be
considered that general estimates are useless.
The utmost that can be said is that to start
dairy- or pig-farming requires something
like double the capital necessary to com-
mence poultry or vegetable-farming.
(1) What is the best method of preparing
strychnine baits for rabbits? (2) Is ani-
seed a good bait, and if so in what form—
oil, essence or tincture? —7474.
(1) Raspberry jam is favored by most
expert rabbit-poisoners. Place the jam bait
on top of a newly upturned clod. (2) It
is sometimes used, and the oil form seems
to be most popular.
I am a Vie. invalid pensioner desirous of
living in the country. (1) How can I pur-
chase a block of Crown land (one or two
acres) for homestead purposes? (2) Could
I hold such land and grow on it fruit and
vegetables to satisfy my own needs, without
endangering my pension? —7ssB.
(1) “Garden licenses” are issued for areas
not exceeding three acres in certain localities.
The rental is usually £1 per annum. Par-
ticulars from Inquiry Branch, Lands Depart-
ment, Melbourne. (2) An invalid pensioner
is presumed to be totally incapacitated. If he
is able to cultivate a garden he may be
deemed to have the ability to do light work
to assist him to earn a living. State your
case to the Pensions Office, and make sure
that working a garden will not interfere with
your pension before committing yourself to
the project.
(1) What is the length of the Fly River,
New Guinea? (2) How far up is it navi-
gable? (3) Does it run through an inland
plateau, and, if so, how far inland does this
plateau commence? (4) Docs this plateau
offer any prospects for sheep-raising? If
so, what parts are suitable? (5) Is the
rainfall in the interior excessive iron a
pastoralist point of view? (6) Is the
climate suitable for horses? (7) Are the
natives dangerous, and will they work? (8)
Do any wild animals which would be a
menace to sheep inhabit the country? (9)
Are the country and rainfall suitable for
breeding?- —7070.
(1) 650 miles. (2) By launch, for about
500 miles. (3) The country is generally
low-lying and in places swampy. (4) Very
poor. After the flat lands of the delta are
passed there are open grassed areas, but
of no carrying capacity for sheep. (5) Not
over the middle section between the moun-
tains and the sea. (6) Horses have been
used on some of the few plantations on the
lower river. (7) No. They are not num-
erous away from the delta, and this section
is rarely recruited. (8) No. There are
wild pigs, and the dogs kept .by the natives
are a nuisance in other portions of the Pos-
session. (9) No. Practically all the stock
in the country, consisting of cattle and
horses, are found in the central and eastern
divisions.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Homby”: The maggot-fly trap I have
found most effective was designed by J. L.
Froggatt, and can be made for sevenpence.
Cut one end from a kero.-tin, and cover
opening with wire gauze, having a turn-down
of about three inches. Lace a piece of gal-
vanised-wire through the overlapping part,
and strain tight. Make a wire-gauze funnel
with a top of about 24 inches and an apex
no bigger than a threepenny bit, and let into
centre of gauze covering. Bait trap with
dead rabbits or the like, and place as many
as you can where sheep are.
“Tumbe Munda”: When the bots start
to annoy your horses attend to them ; it is
disastrous to wait till a horse is full of
grubs. Of course you cannot keep them
away from animals loose, but you can deal
with their eggs; a soft cloth moistened with
kerosene and brushed over the clusters stuck
to the hairs will kill. Eggs not treated will
fall to the ground when the horse sheds his
coat and may be picked up—perhaps to hatch
in the stomach.
“E.H.M.”: Before putting in your fence
posts char the ground ends in the fire, or
paint with a mixture of powdered charcoal
and boiled linseed oil. Either method will
increase their usefulness.
“Iloni Pikau”: A broken-down fence can
be made serviceable for a time without buy-
ing posts. Select fair-sized ti-tree (or any
other lashing timber) about five feet long;
sharpen at one end and drive it into the
ground with a maul to act like a miniature
post. A man can repair chains a day by
this method.
“Goomarin”: Better than “Wescocky’s”
rubbish-cleaner (B. 11/6/’3O) is a six-inch
duckfoot point on a light six-foot pole. This
will go through any sort of stuff (the wings
will pull it out), and can be. used for lift-
ing drag-liarrows from the drill. The hook
takes too much manoeuvring; I’ve tried both.
“Bill R.”: When it is intended to renew
the worn-out field’s fertility with sulphate of
ammonia, mix sulphate with three parts of
sand or light dry soil. Then scatter the mix-
ture evenly over the surface as if hand-sow-
ing wheat. Just before rain is a good time
to do the job; if rain doesn’t fall within three
days the area should be watered.
“Lucium”: Don’t throw the wheels of the
old poison-cart away. Bolted on to the
rear of the fork-slide so as to raise it off
the ground they will lighten Dobbin’s work,
especially in hilly country.
“Jamal”: Some rabbit-skinning hints.
Make your skin bows out of good thick wire
with a square shoulder on one side; this gives
a better set. Also run out the hind legs
to the toes when skinning, as this allows
plenty of skin to take an extra turn round
the bow when tying, thus preventing creep.
Dry skins in the shade; never let them
get wet. When packing for market be
sure to separate the greasy pelts and heavy
milkics from the better .grades,
“Disc Harrow” : Look out for rats where
fruit is stacked. If stuff is found rotting,
with gnawings visible here and there, it will
pay to shift every case, having the dogs
handy. One rat let loose in a store can ruin
hundreds of cases not by what he eats but
by what he spoils.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to SelF’ : or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man, N.S.W., experience station and farm
work, carpenter and motor mechanic, wants job.
Refs.—7466.
Mine engine-driver (Tas.), first-class certificate
(steam), also electrical and wire-rope splicing exp.,
wants job Australia or Islands. —7455.
Young man (N.S.W.), wants job distributing
pamphlets, bill-posting, etc. Main Western-road to
Orange, or will canvass good line. —7503.
Ex-wireless operator (21), R.A.N., wants work
any capacity, Australia or Islands.—749s.
Nurseryman and orchardist, exp. in propagation
and cultivation of fruit trees, wants management or
work in Vic.- —7504.
Surveyor, N.S.W., wide oxp. with theodolite
level, irrigation and other work, wants employment
with squatters or land companies.—-7497.
Clerk (22), wants job of any sort, Aus. or Islands.
—7513.
Exp. governess, used to backward children;
English, French, music and typewriting, wants posi-
tion any part Aus. Refs. —7522.
Middle-aged lady, Sydney, wants position as house-
keeper. Kefs.- —7523.
Refined educated woman, seeks’position in music-
shop or library, Brisbane preferred.-—7493.
To buy “Introduction to Biology,” by Kirkaldy
and Drummond.—749o.
Wanted family to take farm on half shares in
Queensland cotton belt. Not less than three exp.
male adults. Ten acres in cultivation and more
may be got. Victorians preferred.—7624.
Station overseer wants position; thorough know-
ledge of sheep and all other stock, wool-classing
and general farming; 15" years in Riverina.- —-7603.
Young married couple, Sydney, want position in
country; wife, housemaid or waitress; husband, any
kind of outside work. Go anywhere. Refs. —7619.
Sanitary engineer (N.S.W.) wants work, any
capacity, on out-back station.—7sB2.
Motor engineer (Q.), 37 years’ exp., wants job
in charge of workshop or as traveller.—7s6B.
Young man with carpentry exp., holds . car-
driver’s license, wants j0b.—7564.
To buy set of 25 parts “Great Pictures by Great
Painters” (Cassell). —7478.
To buy French newspapers, troopship magazines,
war diaries, recruiting pamphlets and copies of
“Aussie,” published in the field.—7496.
To bin’ or get in touch with owners of photo-
graphs of the sailing-ships Star of Greece, Star of
Austria, Craigendarroch, Kosciusko, Whiteadder and
any others which visited Australian waters only once
or twice. (Direct to Capt. W. F. Lee, Adelaide
Steamship Co., Port Adelaide, S.A.)
To buy Moresby’s “Discoveries and Surveys in
New Guinea.” —7608.
To buy “Last of the Tasmanians,” “Marooned in
Australia” (1896) and “Secret of Australian Desert”
(1895), “Melburnians” (1892) and “Aussie” cr
other trench papers.—76lo.
To buy Christmas Bulletin, 1924. —767:4.
Young man, Vic. (23), would.like to correspond
with persons interested in amateur acting ahd pro-
ducing.—74BB.
Dane with a small library in own language, wants
to exchange with countryman having similar books.
—7543.
Retired farmer wants gentleman to share nicely-
furnished home on waterfront at Woy Woy (Sydney).
Good fishing. (Direct to *E. Leach, Corra Lynn,
Gordon, Sydney.)
Whereabouts of Vivian Maurice Walter, last heard
of in Vie. about 20 years ago. —7546.
Information Sought.
(1) Procedure, to be followed for transfer
of pension by old-age pensioner moving from
Vic. to N.S.W.? (2) When invalid pensions
arc granted is the maximum amount always
given? (3) Is the recipient of an invalid
pension allowed to earn money in addition
to the pension? —7lo6.,.
(1) Application for transfer should be
made to the postmaster at the pay office
where instalments are now collected. (2)
The rate is governed by the - applicant’s in-
come and property, and is not always paid
at the maximum rate. (3) Invalid pensions
are paid in respect of total permanent in-
capacity for work or blindness. Cases are
treated on their merits when the question of
earnings arises.
(1) What would it cost to put a new face-
cream on the market? . (2) What would be
the prospects of making a profit out of the
venture? (3) Where can an up-to-date list
of Sydney and suburban chemists be
obtained? (4) What profits would retail
and wholesale houses expect? —7272.
(1) Depends entirely upon the method of
attack. You can do this sort of thing
gradually or by way of a* grand assault.
(2) That would depend on the quality of
the preparation and of the salesmanship, (o)
From Mr. Nicholas, Macquarie-place, Sydney.
(4) The usual thing is 20 per cent, for the
wholesalers and 30 per cent for the retailers.
When does winter begin in Australia?
Astronomically on June 22, when the sun
enters the zodiacal sign Cancer; meteorolo-
gically, on June 1. The rule applies to the
whole Southern Hemisphere.
I have a 16 -months-old Airedale terrier
which has lately developed a habit of standing
rigid and making sucking, noises as though it
has difficulty in getting its breath. The dog
is otherwise healthy—a little on the, fat side
—and his diet consists wholly of raw meat.
What is his trouble and the cure? —7187.
Probably he is over-fat. Starve him over-
night, and next morning give him a large
tablespoonful of castor oil and the same
quantity of syrup of buckthorn. Keep him
on a limited diet, and occasionally give him
some vegetables and gravy.
I am an old-age pensioner, with an oppor-
tunity of getting a few weeks’ work. If I
take it, will I have to relinquish my pension,
and if so, would I be able to renew it when
the job ended? —7347.
If the work is temporary and the wages
small it would not be necessary to hand in
the pension certificate. Should the employ-
ment be of lengthy duration you should
notify the Pensions Office. Then, when the
employment ceases, you should inform the
office, which would re-open your claim for a
pension.
{l)Who painted the “Mona Lisa,” and
who teas she? (2) Why is the picture so
universally acclaimed as a' great work of
art?— -7451.
(1) It was painted by Leonarda Da Vinci
•early in the sixteenth century. The subject
was Lisa, a Neapolitan, wife of Zanobi del
Giocondo. (2) Magnificent technique. The
picture symbolises, in the enigmatical expres-
sion worn by the lady, what romanticists
might term “the eternal mystery of woman.”
To be able to convey such a subtlety on
canvas so deftly is a ball-mark of genius.
What is the story of Susannah and the
Elders, and where is it to be found? —7457.
It is contained in an addition to the Old
Testament “Book of Daniel” relegated to
the Apocrypha. Susannah was, a virtuous
wife: who, because she repulsed two elders
(who were also judges), was falsely charged
by them with adultery and condemned to
death. She was saved by Daniel, who cross-
questioned the accusers separately, trapped
them into divergences of testimony, and thus
proved the falsity of the charge.
(1) Would it be advisable to buy a news-
agency for about £2OOOP (2) Could any
person of good average education make a
decent living out of it? (3) I have £lOOO.
Where could I get the balance? (4) Average
weekly profit? —7s39.
(1) Depends on the assets—-some would
be very cheap and many would be very dear
at the price. (2) Essential is a la<rge
capacity for hard work and attending to
small details. (3) Generally the newspaper
proprietors in Victoria expect the intend-
ing purchaser to have three-fourths of the
purchase money. Banks will scarcely touch
this business just now. (4) The business
which is worth £2OOO if well handled should
yield from £lO to £l2 a week net.
In auction bridge where A and O are
partners against B and D, D, the dealer,
did not bid, A bid one no-trump, B bid two
hearts, C passed, D passed, A bid two spades,
B doubled, C bid two no-trumps and D
doubled. (1) Who plays the hand? (2)
Would the same rule apply in a hand where
the final bid was other than “no trumps ?”—
,6846.
(lj A. His second bid of spades does not
negative his original “no trump” call. His
partner can, as be did in this case, put Mm
back into it. (2) Yes.
I am a disabled returned soldier of N.S.W.
I want my son to take a course of engineer-
ing at the Sydney Uni. Can I obtain finan-
cial!, assistance for him under the soldiers’
children education scheme? —7sl7.
If you are totally and permanently incapa-
citated as the result of war service, yes. If
not, it may be possible to obtain assistance
from the Samuel MeCaughey bequest.
Applications for aid from either source
should be made to the Deputy-Commissioner
for Repatriation, Sydney, giving regimental
particulars and other details.
My son wishes to become a registered
pharmacist in Tas. (1) What is the term
of apprenticeship? (2) What exams, would
he have to pass? —7sl6.
(1) Four years. (2) Before apprentice-
ship he must have passed the intermediate
exam, of the Tas. Uni. or some equivalent
exam. When he has served two years’
apprenticeship he may sit for the intermedi-
ate exam. of the Tas." Pharmacy Board, and
at any time after the termination of appren-
ticeship ; if he ha>s attained the age of 21 he
may sit for the final exam.
(1) How to kill borers (or boring insects)
in the walls or furniture of a wooden house?
(2) To prevent their spreading? —7loB.
(1) Depends on sort of beetle, sort of
wood and other factors.. Get Leaflet No. 21
“Wood Borers,” supplied free by N.S.W.
Agricultural Department, Sydney. (2) Best
method is to paint with creosote. Where
staining the timber is undesirable, a mix-
ture of 9 parts turpentine to 1 part kere-
sene has been found effective.
An old man has contracted to cut and
trim my lawn for a fete shillings per month.
He works when he likes, and the agreement
is verbal. (1) Have I to insure him? (2)
Have I to deduct the new N.S.W. wages
tax from his pay? —7369.
(1) Under the N.S.W. Workers’ Com-
pensation Act a casual worker employed
otherwise than for the purposes of the em-
ployer’s trade; or business, or an indepen-
dent contractor, are not workers within the
meaning of the Act. (2) In your case there
is a slight doubt as to the employee’s status,
so it may be advisable for you to insure him.
There seems very little doubt that you need
not deduct the wages tax.
What is a split infinitive? Give examples.
—7429.
It is an offence against the niceties of
grammar which consists in its most attack-
able form in the placing of an adverb
between “to” and a verb, as in “to violently
love” or “to slightly be.” One of the modern
authorities on English, after devoting several
pages of a treatise to the subject, says: “To
lay down and illustrate exhaustive rules
would not be possible in reasonable compass.”
The only unforgivable sort of split infinitive
in our opinion is the sort that obscures the
meaning of a sentence, as in “To mortally be
wounded.”
(1) In what manner is the sale of methy-
lated spirits controlled in Vic.? (2) On the
label of what poisons is it necessary in T ic.
to print an antidote? —7532.
(1) Can be sold only by pharmaceutical
chemists or certificated dealers in poisons,
and with certain exceptions only in the hours
during which liquor may be sold by licensed
victuallers. Full particulars in “The Poisons
Regulations,” obtainable from Govt.. Printer,
Melbourne, Price Is. (2) Arsenic, strych-
nine, corrosive sublimate, carbolic acid, lysol,
nicotine, cyanide of potassium, arsenate of
lead, arsenical weedkiller, amd arsenical fly
exterminator.
(1) Arc British silver coins legal tender
in Australia? (2) Are British four-shilling
pieces legal tender in Australia? (3) Name
of an Australia buyer of out-of -currency
coins?- —7001.
(1) Yes, if of current weight and of de-
nominations that have not been called in,
they are good tender in payment for an
amount not exceeding £2. The denomina-
tions now on issue are 3d., 6d., Is., 2s. and
2s. 6d. (2) These are no longer issued.
Can’t say whether they have been “called
in” within the meaning of the Common-
wealth Coinage Act. Most traders would
refuse them. (3) Lyster Ormsby, 235
Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
If a man travelling in the rear of a train
travelling at 60 miles an hour was to fire
a shot at the engine, the shot going at the
same rate as the train, would the shot reach
the engine? —74o9.
Yes, any shots fired on a train or other
moving platform, either in the direction of
the platform’s movement or in a reverse
direction, will reach their objective at exactly
the same rate of speed as if the platform
were stationary.
When starting a car downhill is it advis-
able to use the starter or to let the momen-
tum of the car t-urn the engine over , letting
the clutch in gradually? —7439.
Use the starter. The only advantage to
he gained by letting the car run down hill
is a slight reduction in current consump-
tion, and as the modern car is designed so
that the battery will take care of all demands
made on . it, that isn’t worth considering.
By not using the starter there is a risk of
causing damage or undue wear.
(1) What are the best Australian native
song-birds? (2) Are any other birds cap-
able of mimicking sounds as the lyre-bird
does?— 7ss4.
(1) Opinion varies considerably. Many
of our warblers have a very pleasing song,
also some of the song-shrikes, such as the
olive whistler. The crested bellbird and the
butcher-bird also have melodious voices. (2)
All the bower-birds are great mimics, while
among the smaller species the noisy scrub-
bird and the scrub-wrens are perhaps the
best. The ground-lark and even the silver-
eye are also good mimics.
(1) Are sponges growing in Australian
waters suitable for commercial purposes?
(2) In what parts of Australia are. the
best sponges to be found? (3) Are any
Australian sponges on the market? —7550.
(1) A complete survey has not yet been
made. All that can be said is that it is pos-
sible that first-quality sponges exist iu some
parts in commercial quantities. (2) The
Barrier Reef Expedition, during its recent
investigations, found on the reef consider-
able quantities of second-grade sponges.
(3) No.
(1) Prospects of mental nursing in North
Island (M.L.)? (2) Salary? (3) How
application may be made? (4). Names of
some of the principal mental hospitals in the
N.1.?— 7139.
(1) Good for persons with an aptitude
for the profession. (2) Commencing, £l2O
p.a., less £25 deducted for board. (3) By
personal application to the medical super-
intendent of the mental hospital. (4) Auck-
land, Tokantti and Wellington.
(1) What market is there for poster work
after the style of Italian and French scenic
posters? (2) Most suitable mediums ?<—
7042.
(1) Most likely buyers are the tourist and
railway publicity departments of the various
States and the steamship companies. Com-
missions are generally given to established
artists or to firms of art printers. (2) A
knowledge of methods of lithographic repro-
duction is essential; such knowledge governs
the choice of medium in drafting the design.
What is the salary (plus expense alloiv-
ance) of the Governor-General, and what
salaries are paid to the Governors of the
Australian States? —7541.
The Governor-General’s salary is £lO,OOO,
plus ordinary expenses as provided in the
1929-30 estimate, which bring the total to
£37,902—-£1445 less than in 1928-29. State
Governors’ salaries are: N.S.W. and Vic.,
£5000; W.A.. £4000; S.A., £3299; Queens-
land and Tas., £3OOO.
What are emu-umens tike, and in what
way do they resemble emus? —-7555.
In general build and size it is like any
other Australian wren, save that the tail
feathers resemble the feathers of an emu.
What were the recommendations of the
Royal Commission on the pearl-shell indus-
try held about 15 years ago as regards the
employment of Asiatics? —7518. '
Briefly that it wasn’t advisable to inter-
fere with the employment of Asiatics, and
that in the Commission’s opinion the White
Australia policy would not be weakened or
imperilled by allowing such employment to
be continued.
My son, aged 21, through a motor acci-
dent, will be permanently incapacitated and
unable to earn a living. As I shall have to
support him., will I be allowed deductions
in that respect on my Federal and N.S.W-
income tax? —7186. /
You can obtain no deduction on Federal
income tax.! In respect of N.S.W. income
tax a deduction of up to £5O is allowed in
such cases, where the dependant’s income
d"es not exceed £lOO. if the taxpayer is
single, divorced or widowed.
How to become a meat inspector in S.A.?
Educational qualifications, age limit and
salary? Prospects of employment as such
in Adelaide and country? —7s9l.
Qualification is by exam. Classes are held
at the School of Mines, Adelaide, and exams
ore held periodically. No official age limit.
Salary in Adelaide £3OO to £375 p.a. No
vacancies in S.A. at present so far as we can
ascertain.
Brief Answers.
P.F.: (1) and (2) Yes. (3) to (11)
Write Commonwealth and State Statisticians....
E.T.D.0.: (1) Posted. (2) Doubtful if there is a
demand. If there is, there will be an overwhelming
supply... .T.L.C.: There is no Gospel of St. Thomas.
References are made to the Apostle Thomas in all
the gospels and to the infant life of Jesus fn
gospels by Matthew and Luke... .C. 5.8.: (I) Write
Gustavus Ward, Community Playhouse, Darlinghurst.
(2) Prom his father, Consett Stephen, Bellevue
Hill, Sydney... .G.J.W.: There are machines for
this work, but a belt could be wetted, stretched,
fastened to timber with nails and allowed to dry.. . .
E.D.: (1) See Service Page (B. 3/4/’29). (2) 12>.
Gd. per week. (3) 255. per week... .H.J.: (1) To
manager, head office, 673 Bourke-street, Melbourne.
Personal application also necessary. (2) No vacan-
cies at present—reducing staff. (3)* Not at present.
... .A.E.F.: It might be possible to hire sets from
Sydney City Mission, or from Methodist Missionary
Society, 139 Castlereagh-street—both Sydney....
H.E.C.: Refer to “Australian and N.Z. Writers' and
Artiste’ Year-book” (2s. Gd.) W.P.T.: (1) No-
thing smaller than postcard size, unless very clear,
should be submitted. (2) Except when the stamps
are affixed to an enclosed envelope, letters containing
•manuscripts with return postage are not accepted as
second-class mail matter. (3) By money order or
M. postage stamps.... T.C.: Buribuca (lilies
in water), Delungra (a water weed), Tav-
ildul (a reedy place), Jerriga (reedy swamp),
Woolaware (muddy flat) W.P.: Write 1.C.5., 140
Elizabetli-street, Sydney... .W.E.J.: The total cost
of the war to Australia (including repatriation) at
June 30, 1928, was £687,366,237 V.T.: Malaria
is a notifiable disease in every State except N.S.W.
. ...II.B.: (1) “Ebonal”, would probably be most
serviceable. (2) Try Botanic Gardens, Mel-
bourne.. ..G.A.C.: Painters employed by the Elec-
trolytic Zinc Co., Risdpn (Tas.), are paid 17s. 4d. p.d.
... A.R.0.: J. H. Smyth, Ltd., 121aCastlereagh-street;
l". Hagen, G 3 Hunter-street; P. Everitt, 333 George-
street —all Sydney... .M.IL : Deela-Bioscop, Vilc-
toriastrasse, Berlin; U.F.A., Kothenerstrasse 1,
Berlin, W 9 L.T.: Write N.S.W. Wool and Fur,
Ltd., 115 Pitt street, Sydney... . J.E. : See “Coanc-s’
Australasian Roads” (1927 edition)... .W.M.: Write
D. P. Lacy, Jamaica Cricket Association, Kingston,
Jamaica... .D.0.R.: Hinkler: Mon Repos, Thornhill
Park, Southampton, England; Cbbham: 22 Frognal-
lane, Hampstead, London, N.W.3 ; Lindbergh: Guggen-
heim Fund for Promotion of Aeronautics, New York,
N. .. .0.0.: Roberts and Co., Ltd., 148 a Collins-
street, Hobart; Stephens Pty., Ltd., 41 St. John-
street, Launceston; Allan Stewart Pty., 15 St. John-
street, Launceston....H.M.M.: No reason made
public so far as we can trace... .L. 8.: Bores have
been sunk on Eyre Peninsula ’ with little success.
Stock water (1-ioz. salt to the 'gallon) wasi obtained
on the Nullarbor Plain. In all other eases the
water struck was too salt to be used... .N.F.: Copy-
righting of a play is not compulsory, but copyright
affords added protection. Apply to Copyright Office,
Melbourne; fee, 5s A.S.: Write G. A. Laird or
R. H. Stainforth, estate agents, Norfolk Island....
J.T.: The Shenandoah was the largest wooden
sailing-vessel to enter Sydney Harbor, and was last
there about 32 years ago. Captain Ellis commanded,
and her tonnage was 3407 gross and 3154 net... .
E. : The tyres you have on are the largest in
diameter which will fit the car’s wheels... .A.C.H.:
Write James Martin and Co., Gawler, S.A W.P.:
Most direct route to Trinidad is via N.Z. and Panama
Canal; fares, £9B to £43. Cool season is October -
March... .D.M.0.G.: Lyster Ormsby, 235 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney H.C.: Tariff schedule obtainable
from Customs Department, Sydney. British type-
writers free ; cithers 10 per cent A.J.W.H.:
Write the Commissioners of Police in the Australian
State capitals. In respect of Papuan and New
Guinea Police Forces write Prime Minister’s Depart-
ment, Canberra. . . .N.M.D.: Under the Local Govern-
ment Act (N.S.W.) where a council acquires land
by appropriation or resumption, it must pay compen-
sation. You look to'your landlord and he looks to
the local council E.M.P.: If the guarantee was
not limited as to time you are bound by it....
A.H:S.: A small packet of South African veldt-grass
seed will be forwarded to you by the N.S.W. Agri-
culture Department. Kikuyu grass does not seed,
but the Department will send some roots to you
in the spring... .H.C.: Gipsy Moth, empty, 9401 b. ;
fully loaded, 16501 b. , Avro-Avian, empty, 8391 b. :
fully loaded, 14401 b A.R.M.M.: Subs, should be
sent to the Hon. Treas., J. Travers, Intermediate
High School, N. Sydney L.L.: The fund was
satisfactorily administered... .A.W.: Yes, but. copy-
right in Australia will protect you here J.N.: To
Director, Botanical Gardens, ’ Sydney N.T.H.:
Write to the Electricians’ Licensing Board, Elizabeth-
street, and Technical College, Harris-street —both
Sydney.... H.S.: (1) Not unless you can well afford
it. Very doubtful if it would benefit you. (2)
Apply Copyright Office, Sydney, for forms. Fee, ss.
J.D. : (1) There is a possibility of injury, as the
poison would be carried in the- juices of the plant.
(2) Taylor and Elliot, Ltd., Brisbane J.H.A.:
Write to Mines Department, Sydney, for latest report.
H.P.: Get in touch with Burns, Philp and Co.,
Ltd., Sydney... . A.A.: No vacancies for aircraft
mechanics at Cockatoo Island. .. .D.W.8.: Only likely
buyers are: Adelaide Chemical Works, Wallaroo,
Mount Lyell Fertilisers and Cresco Fertilisers, all of
S. T.R.: Get free pamphlet “Reworking and
Renovation of Orange-trees” from Agriculture Depart-
ment, Sydney J.M.: Try one of the older-
established schools... .J.N.; (1) Write to Tobacco
Expert, State Agriculture Department, Melbourne.
(2) For your district, “Conqueror” or “Warne”
C.R.S.: Australian Paper Manufacturers, 47 King-
street, Sydney....N.C.: Write to A. P. Mackerras,
Fisher-avenue, Vaucluse, secretary of the N.S.W. branch
of the British Astronomical Association J.R.J.:
Rule 17 (/) says that a player loses the point if
he volleys the ball before it passes the net
P.J.A.: By deed of gift. A form may be purchased
but to make it legal it must be registered and
stamped. The safest course is to put the matter
in the hands of a solicitor. . . .H.R.: No value. All
notes issued during the inflation period were recalled
years ago... .A.F.J.: Your tenant appears to be in
a position to claim the protection of the Fair Rents
Act (Q.), and so long as he complies with the terms
of his lease you may find it impossible either to
eject him or raise his rent. Consult the Court
Registrar or Clerk of Petty Sessions in your district,
or get a copy of the Act from the Government
Printer, Brisbane J. 8.: Write curator, Techno-
logical Museum, Harris-street, Sydney C. 11.5.:
If you intend carrying on business under any firm
name consisting of or containing any name or
addition other than your full or usual name, it will
be necessary to register under the Registration of
Firms Act (N.S.W.), 1902.. . .A. 8.: Three months
after the order of sequestration is issued the insolvent
should apply for a certificate of discharge E.R.J.:
The Department calls for tenders when poles arq
quired. Apply to have your name placed on list
of tenderers... W. 8.: Experiments have been con-
ducted in Queensland with the Falkiner, Miller-Owen
and Howard cane harvesters, but not by the Queens-
land Bureau of Sugar Experiment Stations
(Many others mailed.)


%%
MORE
*Z6
•S:
m
f
*4
«»
m
03
l9- § UH U ! OS P
■■;■■■
m
9/1 Wp
I
€Z
1 I
m
ms
mmmm.
WvJS
g
V.VW
HHI
r
ISiH
I
&
::.;v
mm
m
m
P I
*|iiii
■di
SSBBBSS? 88
■
iiiiigi
s&s
mmmm
I 'H
Bradman, Jackson, Oldfield three cricketers
who won the right to represent Australia
because they are better.
Country Life—the“ 3 more cigarettes”—have won
Australia’s favour because they too are better.. *
CORK TIPPED VIRGINIA
C I G /VR ETTES
OLDFIELD


jgngn
WHEN MAKING YOUR WILL
REMEMBER THIS
MANY men believe that in making their will they are
bequeathing, their whole property to their dependents.
In actual fact this is not so. Probate tax makes a
heavy inroad into many bequests. To overcome this difficulty,
the P. & C. Probate Assurance was evolved. It provides the
ideal solution, pays for probate tax, obviates forced sales and
provides adequate money for dependents during the long assess-
ment period. Discuss the matter with their representatives or
write to
PRODUCERS f/CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OJF AUSTRALIA LTD,
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: H. Fell.
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
Agency Co., Ltd. ~
CLIFTON GARDENS HOTEL
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Limited).
Sydney's well-known Harbor Hotel
'% v
QQQ
m
warn
m
QUIET and RESTFUL—
an ideal Winter Home, as
Warm in Winter as the
South of France. The
Most Sheltered Spot on
the Harbor, with Private
Beach and Amphitheatre
Swimming Baths, Spacious
Grounds and Garage
Accommodation.
TARIFF:
From 4i Guineas.
LUNCHEONS. AFTER-
NOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes’
trip from City by Ferry
or Motor.
RESERVATIONS: Y 3012 (4 lines).
Overlooking Harbor and Ocean.
SMOKE-OH!
WELCOME!
“Three of the new arrivals boldly admit that they
were charwomen in England and would be satisfied
with similar work here.” — “Pictorial.”
Some dream of being squatters’ wives;
Others would fain be movie stars;
'Tis something new that now arrives,
Three chars! Three hearty British chars’-
H- H-
“The ‘trade’ is one of Australia’s greatest indus-
tries. Millions are invested in it in every State.”
-— -Rev. Hammond.
No wonder money is tight.
* *
“May Andrews (12), told to take a dose of salts,
swallowed three packets.”— “News.”
-Vs Kitchener remarked: “I don’t know
when it will end, but the war will begin in
Mav.”
V- #
“She was created a Dome of the British Empire.”
— “News.”
They reserve this decoration, of course,
for highbrows.
INTERESTING SIGHT OF THE WEEK.
From the “Age” :
A party numbering 12 embracing ladies and gentle-
men left Melbourne yesterday on a personally con-
ducted sight-seeing tour.
WHAT FIE MAY EXPECT.
“Sir Otto Niemeyer, the financier, has left unob-
trusively for Australia. He wishes to attract as
little attention as possible.”— Cable.
From the “Morning Tabloid” (Monday) :
Sir Otto Niemeyer has arrived. A “Tabloid"
representative, though denied an interview, got some
interesting details of his career from a native of
HIS ALIBI.
“Where have you been till this hour of the morning?”
“Darling, you are — hie—quite wrong. I washn’t zhere all
zhevening.”
London. Ottie (as he is known, in exclusive
Bank of England circles) is just a big, care-free boy,
enamored of all healthy sports. Australians will
love him. His dear old mother is following his
doings with an anxious heart. “I do hope the Aus-
sies will take to him,” she often says. “He wor-
ships Australians, you know.”
From the “Evening Bleat” (Tuesday) :
Our Special Representative saw the financier
yesterday. He was weafing a smart felt hat, but
no spats so far as could be seen —but he was mov-
ing very fast at the time. By the way, a morning
contemporary errs in referring to him as “Ottie.”
He is “Threddo” to his distinguished intimates : —so
called from his association with the Bank of England,
which, of course, is in Threadneedle-street. Despite
Threddo’s efforts and those of the police to conceal
it, we are in a position to announce that he will
visit the Commonwealth Bank at 10 a.m. to-morrow,
returning to his hotel at 11.30. An immense crowd
is likely to assemble.
From the “Tabloid” (Wednesday) :
The public’s affection for Ottie grows by what
it feeds on. His intention of dining at the Pluto
Club last night (of which we had duly notified our
readers) was completely frustrated by enthusiastic
admirers. The police barriers were overturned, and
a lady who tried to kiss him was arrested. “I have
never seen anything like it,” smiled Ottie afterwards.
From leader in “Bleat” (Thursday) :
Voicing, as we do, the sentiments of an over-
whelming majority of this fair city’s inhabitants, it
is our duty to register a strong protest against the
insultingly obscurantist methods of Threddo Nie-
meyer. Why this marked avoidance of the press?
Why, when our representative tries to get into
Threddo’s hotel suite, is the door invariably locked?
Why is our visitor spirited by back streets to his
social and other engagements?
From leader in “Tabloid” (Friday) :
Slowly but surely public opinion is turning
against Ottie. Three times yesterday our representa-
tive tried in vain to see him, wishing to discover,
in the public interests, where he proposed to lunch.
A telephone message inquiring the extent of the
financier’s income was ignored. So was a letter
asking where he meant to spend the week-end.
We Aussies are patient, Ottie —but there are
limits.
Sunday:—
SENSATIONAL EXPOSURE.
Ottie’s Feet or Clav.
Inside Facts About Threddo Niemeyer, the Man
Australians Delighted to Honor.
10-2-4.
* *
MODERNISED VERSION.
Pat-a-cake, pat-a-cake, baker’s man;
Pat me a cake, quick as you can.
“Oct sense,” said the man, “if I bake it quick
My union boss will be sure to kick!”
¥ H-
HINTS TO HOME PAINTERS.
Wait until the Weather Bureau prophesies
a wet, cold week-end, with gales from the
east. This will en-
sure sultry weather
with possibility of
duststorms from the
west.
On looking up
your old brushes
you will find them
hard as boards. It
is ever thus. Just
do what you did
last time, and buy
more.
When painting
overhead, tie a can
to right elbow. Sur-
plus paint will then
run down the fore-
arm and drip into
the can. This is
true economy.
About old work.
Just paint over it,
dust and all. No-
body will know any
different, and it
saves a lot of time.
Always mix your
own paints. Yoji
will either have a
gallon over, which
you can give away,
or you will find it
necessary to mix
more. You won’t
get the same shade,
but it will enable
you to be bizarre
and get a two-tone
effect.
S. W. K.
Met my friend
Scotty at a free
band concert, and,
noticing a mourn-
ing hand around
his coat sleeve, asked who was dead. “Hoots,
mon !” he smiled, waving the idea of death
aside, “ma sleeve was torn, an’ bands are
cheaper than tailors, ye ken.”
* *
Singularly enough it is when the milkman
is; a perfect cow that he fails to supply per-
fect milk.
# *
Of all the steps that tempers blight
There’s none than can compare
With stepping in the dead of night
On a step that isn’t there.
FIRST AID.
“What is the best treatment for (a) stings or
bites, (b) poison, (c) gas poisoning,- (d) shock
by live wire?” — “Pictorial.”
Answers.
(a) Walk hard in the opposite direction
or dodge down a side-street. (b) Exercise
ca«re in selecting your brand. (c) Avoid
politicians, (b) On no account talk to men
who have land for sale.
“There are rumors that the K.C. will be the
next to be elevated on the bench.”— “Netcs.”
In which case, good-bye to the old synonym
“as sober as a Judge.”
* *
“Such companies will find it very difficult to
realise their asses.” — “Sun.”
The shareholders, contrariwise, will realise
they’re asses, with ease.
COULDN’T BEAR TO SEE A MAN SUFFER.
“Now then, now then, if I had the money you know I wouldn’t
see a man starve, Jacky!”
“Too right, Boss. You’d close yer plurry eyes.”
Minister for Markets Parker Moloney
says Australia owes more to her pig indus-
try than many suppose. Still, who loves a
politician, anyway?
* fe-
lt was the schooner Hesperus that sailed
the wintry sea,
And the shipper had taken a surfing belle
to bear him company.
As most of their time was occupied in hold-
ing hands and hissing,
We can hardly wonder the Hesperus was
posted at Lloyd’s as missing!
THE SYDNEY SABBATH.
Impressions of a Newspaper Fan.
Callous murder.... Fate’s crushing blow:
demented mother’s awful act.... Pica for
more refinement.... Tiny corpse
—at rest —God’s acre.... Will
Don do it ?. .. . Campsie holocaust.
. . . Our so-called “artistocracy”...
Slashed her up.... “Pie’s a fair
—cow,” said Muriel.... The curse
of sensationalism. . . .Entire family
slaughtered. Scullery drenched in
b100d.... Little mite’s heart-
searing plea: “Mummie, please
come home !”.... Butcher’s cleaver
in bowels.... “And it’s oh for the
touch of a vanished hand!”....
Disgraceful pony ramp: Inside
details.... Doctor’s amours....
“Redheap”.... “Mercy ! Mercy !”
was the innocent tot’s cry. And
then—a great silence.... Society
snobbery. .. . Trusting dustman’s
rude awakening. “It’s a cop,” said
-Clarence, “but she led me 0n”....
What would Shakspeare think of
us ?.... Goings-on of Gladys.
“Drank like a fish,” complained
her spouse. . . “Are we a righteous
people?” Bishop Crotty says yes.
Boy-and-girl idyll. A sidelight
on mother 10ve.... I’ll carve your
liver out.
Max F.
Q.: “In what town in Poland was
Kosciusko born?”
A: “It’s hard to say, whatever it was.”
“He swore at me, and then hit me on the nose.”
—Sydney police-court evidence.
He came, he swore and he conkered.
QUITE PROFESSIONAL.
“What did you think of the medical-
student hoy you went motoring with
last night?”
“Oh, Thelma, he was lovely. He has such
beautiful roadside manners.”
AVATAR.
Vera’s scream ended in a gurgle. The
undertow had clutched her. She caught a
glimpse of the crescent of white sand, with
its sombre fringe of tea-tree tapering against
the skyline. But volition had gone, and
the power of resistance. Everything seemed
to be a dream. A part of the dream was
the bronzed giant who was making toward
her with sinuous, triumphant ease. A cul-
tured girl, she thought of Leander swimming
the Hellespont, and swooned.
“Righto, Missie.”
She had come to. The voice had the
timbre of a bell, resonant and musical. This
was no Leander. He was one of the Immor-
tals. His face, as he smiled reassurance,
displayed the classic contours of a Greek
god. The crisp yellow curls left Vera in no
doubt that Apollo had descended from his car.
.... Then the dark mist rushed down again.
And now she was on the beach. Apollo
had gone. She made dazed inquiries as to
his whereabouts.
“Oh, ’Erb? Jersee ’Erb anywhere?”
“I seen him buzz off ter dress.” . ,
“Yere ’e is. Oi, ’Erb, ther sheila’s arskm
fer yer.”
Again she saw him —his magnificent torso,
his chiselled face, his clinging curls. He
was bareheaded and negligently dressed m
a sweater, soiled greys and canvas shoes.
He looked at her incuriously, removed the
cigarette which he
had been pensively
inhaling, and parked
it behind his ear.
“Yeah?” he said.
“Oh,” faltered
Vera, “I wanted to
thank you for —for
saving my life.”
“Yeah!” Apollo
scratched his ear.
“Yous wanter watch
them flags. The
undertow shifts a
lot.”
“Yes?”
“Yeah. That un-
dertow’s a blanky
cow unless yous a
reel good swimmer.
But watch th e m
flags and you’ll be
_ orright. Well, I
gotter see a bloke
about some bait.
Glad to’ve metcher.
Hooroo.”
Apollo retrieved
the gasper from be-
hind his ear, struck
a vesta on the seat
of his pants, did a
drawback and van-
ished. The sun for
a moment broke
its cloud-mesh, and
the tea-tree was glorified with an emerald
sheen, the sea glittered a jewelled sapphire,
a spider-web became a string of brilliants, an
empty janj-tin flashed like the Koh-i-noor.
And Vera, poor forsaken nymph, knew that
the god had resumed his car.
WAWHERESH.


ms
im
m
3sBS
5
s
ii
gj.
n
!l
miss
i ¥'
m
i
m
& w!
i cm
ener
•o vZ/jmm
in iiii,
mi n il
I
ss»(
AIM if : JS4i|ll|t ■»\l 1 A
(WlSJifl I Ml
WSfISI! II M S
II ll'lll I lIIIH 1111 j!
WihllOTill
ar^wteii
Ii * .»* t ’ .rt f! 1
■
IT i'J ;{;:•■ :r»
i i 1 ii-'r •- . t iiiif
:r ii'iSr in n mi
i.i • *‘ -»| ; i''t ».i
r: ? ::S '?* «tu
xm
S
,1.1
Jl! 1 IIITO Hi
11 A A nf""! "■ ;i
%Ml ;
ggggllp^
sgg®psVi
iliflii
1 I, ••• M 111 if lj .1
T«r
HS
.7// / /At* o * ' 1 v 1
I'll'®.'!
I" 1
111 'I
Mjj 11 !
-::i'i
£XP
<BB
N
&s
JTLED BY
i. limit
EY
sS>
•^5
.-t
i vy a
Z'
=-
m
/
"'Wi ' // "
.A:,w
n i \ ■ **
*'/./•• '•* '•' 7V- ’
//
%
I
•=>©
K!
/' <?
IN
-- o 5? _
'Wia,^
\ VO J<
>/ I ’ <s* .
(!) «?
imiMKi
r3>
fr
U,u//A. ,
luuuaiii


Wrap up for Warmth
fl
m
mm
§»
I W%X
" •?•••••?
mm
W -
m
m
'
but take Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes
for Protection
Cold weather is not the only danger-time for
catching colds. Infection strikes the Throat
and Lungs in crowded places, in company, or
from the lowering of one’s physical vitality.
The surest protection from Throat and Lung
troubles is the Hudson Jujube j
and it is by far the safest and most highly
recommended remedy.
Slowly suck a Hudson “Eumenthol” Jujube feel its soothing effect on tender
or inflamed throat membranes, and note how the pleasant but poweifu
“Eumenthol” suffuses the throat and relieves the bronchial passages, clearing
away that distressing “clioked-up” feeling. , nnv
These effects are immediate, but the great value of the Jujube is the potency
of the “Eumenthol” in suppressing the spread of the germs of infection and in
healing the lung passages.
Endorsed by Leading Medical Opinion.
Hudson’s “Eumenthol” Jujubes have been warmly endorsed by the medical profession and
“THE^LANOET” says: “In the experiments tried, the Jujubes proved to be as
effective bactericidally as is creosote.” „„„„„ of
“THE MEDICAL REVIEW” states: “They are agreeable to take, and, m many cases oi
catarrh of the respiratory passages, afford Teady relief.” aAVWTTV” and
/Also endorsed by the “PRACTITIONER,” the “AUSTRALASIAN MEDICAL GAZETTE and
others.
HUDSONS
&
m
1/6 a tin
at all Chemists
fluti
S 3
vV\C <1
'"J.
///,
%
f/
m
z>
fa.
£
N
J§
YS/S.
Q*
a
fa.
<t>
a*
■*>
N>
X
&
.*s*
For
40 Years
a Tried and
T rusted
Remedy for
RHEUMATISM
IMPURE BLOOD
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO
CHRONIC BACKACHE
BLADDER WEAKNESS
TIRED, TOO-OLD FEELING
DOWN-DRAGGING WEAKNESS
LACK OF VITALITY, ACHING LIMBS
SALLOW COMPLEXION, DIZZINESS
PAINS IN JOINTS. BAD NIGHTS
Rheumatism
The Scourge of Millions can now be j
treated Rationally.
THIS is an age of medical research. The most famous doctors in the world are
giving years of their life to discover the cause of health troubles that are crippling
nations.
And most vital of all in this great health work, first in importance, is that which tells us
to-day the cause and the remedy for that everyday ill-health trouble that cripples millions
yes, millions —of men and women —rheumatism.
Rheumatism and all the chronic pain it brings, it is practically unanimously agreed, is
caused by harmful bacteria and impurities in the blood. It is really the duty of the kidneys
to filter out from the blood these pain-bringing evil influences. When they fail m their vital
action these harmful bacteria, etc., are carried through the blood stream to all parts of the
body, setting up their work, and that is why your nerves call out their night and day
message of pain. , , , xl , ,
If you understand this you will realise that the only remedy that end
rheumatic torture must re-vitalise the kidneys to carry out their healthy, biood-
purifying action. You will understand, too, why plasters, ointments or mere y
purgative pills cannot help you.
All the wonderful scientific research that has been carried on clearly vindicates
the "claim of the 40-year-old DeWitt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills to be a reliable
remedy in cases of kidney disorder, rheumatism and its painful symptoms.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are not a “ cure all.” They are made from
a prescription (clearly printed on each box) solely for the purpose of remedying
Kidney Trouble, Bladder Weakness, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, Chronic Backache
and the weakness and loss of vitality caused by impoverished blood.
Every bottle of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills sold, either the 3/6 or
the larger, more economical 6/6 size, carries this definite money-back guaran ee.
If, within twenty-four hours from starting to take these pills regularly, you o
not see (from colour of urine) that they are acting directly through the kidneys,
return partly used bottle and your money is refunded in full.
Start to-day building health, vigour and vitality. Ask for and see you get
DeWITPS PI LLS


A WHIP TO BE PROUD OF
J
n
r
THE
APEX STOCKWHIP
Nowhere else in the world can any
whip be produced to equal this Aus-
tralian-made Apex Stockwhip in its
skilled plaiting or in its wonderful
serviceable qualities. It is artistically
plaited in two colors with a neat
Swastika design on both handle and
thong. The thong is Bft. long and
20-plait. Price complete ... .82/6
For 2/6 extra you can have your initials up to four
letters plaited in handle.
K’BURRA STOCKWHIPS
Plain plait without fancy stitches. Guaran-
teed Kangaroo Leather right through with
life-like fall.
THONGS. Oft. 7ft. Bft. 9ft. HANDLES. IG-plait,
12-plait 18/6 21/- 23/6 27/6 17/-; 24-plait, 19/-; 32-
16-plait 21/6 24/6 27/6 31/6 plait, 22/6. Loaded
20-plait 26/6 30/- 33/6 38/6 handles for 9ft. thongs,
Post Free for Cash. 1/6 more.
Write for our Saddlery Catalogue.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON LTD.
395 George Street, Sydney.
Box 785 G.
1?
;
fc'-S
>SK
v.v
x ; :v
MH
£s
:■:■:■
: : ;
HOHi
BBS
mt-
Break the
vicious rin k*
with a Guinness
Long hours—overtaxed nerves, sleep-
lessness, leave you weary and exhausted;
a superhuman effort is necessary to
get through the next day’s work—and
the whole process is repeated* Break
the vicious circle with Guinness*
A glass of Guinness with your dinner
or on retiring soothes the frayed
nerves—it makes the mind tranquil—
it ensures sound, refreshing sleep*
Guinness is a delicious beverage, rich
in phosphates and other valuable con-
stituents; it is recommended for its
health-giving properties by famous
Doctors throughout the world*
Guinness
IS GOOD FOR YOU
N.B.—One pint of Guinness Foreign Extra Stout has a malt carbo-
hydrate content equal to one and a half pints of pure dairy millr.
GF/A/K3
Poverty
Point
“Squarehead”: I found there wasn’t much
fun in impersonating a German soldier in
Melbourne O publicity stunt for the talkie
“All Quiet”). Anti-German and inquisitive
old ladies can be a damned nuisance, and a
Digger a bit the worse for booze chased me
with serious intent. Then one had to dodge
policemen. Dunno why, but that was the
tip. The bunch of us revolted when ordered
to attend football matches on a Saturday
afternoon. That would have been the end
of us.
“Cine Ma”: Whatever the academic
demerits of the Australian accent, it records
better in a talkie than any other I have heard.
Typical English or American voices lia<ve a
resonant quality which the loud-speaker
magnifies to the point of unintelligibility. The
Australian tends to produce his noises nearer
the front of the throat, or perhaps his tonsils
are healthier or the roof of his mouth is nar-
rower. Whatever the reason, the clarity
of Australian speech is very noticeable. In
a recent talkie of Ivingsford Smith there was
absolutely no distortion at all.
“Peter Percussion”: The hardest hit of
unemployed orchestral musicians is the
drummer. He has an unsaleable kit of (more
or less) musical instruments which probably
cost him well over a hundred quid to gather
together, for in order to hold his job he has
had to add all sorts of weird gadgets to the
barrage. An expert trap-drummer is good
enough to pull a Jack’s-come-home-to-day
comedian or eccentric dancer through an act
and get liis laughs for him. In pre-talkie
times many touring shows featured their
drummers, who were expected to put in hours
of daily practice, apart from rehearsals, in
order to qualify as soloists on that moder-
ately melodious arrangement of duck-boards,
the xylophone. I was one of the lucky ones
who got out of the game before the slaughter
commenced. From the band-room to the
bush is a big step, but even with wheat
down to four bob per bushel I prefer the
plough to the pit.
“Oeto”: At least one Sydneyite would
have borne it with fortitude if the lunatic
who winged the Duke of Edinburgh at Clon-
tarf had shot straighter. This was an actor
who played a tragic rble in a Shakspearean
production which was staged at the Theatre
Royal in honor of the visitor. The Duke
turned up hilariously tight. Something
about the mummer referred to amused
H.R.H., and every time he appeared a white-
gloved paw would be clapped to the Royal
mouth, and bellows of glee would resound.
The dress-circle respectfully followed suit,
and soon the whole house had got the infec-
tion, and burst into shouts of derision imme-
diately the tragedian showed himself. It
ended his stage career. Manners apart, the
Duke was poor stuff. The week he spent
in hospital as a result of his wound was the
only sober week he spent in Australia.
“The Listening-Insect”: There is little
comfort for Poverty Pointers in the result
of a plebiscite on wireless programmes
recently held by the “Argus.” Classical
music topped the poll and it was all of the
canned variety. This is quite understand-
able. Once sounds get into the microphone
they are canned anyhow, and listeners pre-
fer to hear a gramophoned Kreisler playing
a Chopin Nocturne than a local fiddler doing
the same, however expert. Plays, sketches,
talks and. other items which might conceiv-
ably provide employment for local histrions
were well down the list and low comedy
items were positively hated. Other dis-
tinctively local products, like racing and
sporting results and market reports, were not
favored, and wrestling and boxing matches
were at the absolute bottom, which is pro-
bably due to people not caring to own up
to the low tastes of the more depraved side
of their natures. I know several dear old
ladies one would hardly suspect of sadism
who privately confess to rejoicing in the
wrestling matches. The only Australian
actors who are likely to profit by the plebes-
cite. if it is adopted will be the parsons.
Religious servjces are highly favored, and
there are certain silver-tongued preachers
who undoubtedly take the place of movie
stars in country homesteads. I know one
who receives constant requests for his photo.
Unfortunately he is fat and baldheaded.
“Macann”: Amateur theatricals have a
host of sins to answer for, but I would hand
thekn a bouquet for their occasional purple
patches. A bright one of these is the current
performance of Arthur Reardon in the r6le
of Brutus Jones, nigger emperor in the
Eugene O’Neill play at Sydney Playbox.
Reardon acts with a sincerity that suggests
he would walk over broken bottles for the
mere chance of playing the part, whereas
most of his contemporaries—and not ama-
teurs only—perform as if they were doing
their acting on the broken marines. He has
another advantage—he is not afraid to be
emotional. Most actors these days perform as
if letting themselves go was infra dig., and
the result of that is the feeling that the legiti-
mate stage has been well starched and
ironed.
“F.S.”: The reappearance in Melbourne
of a screen version of the Passion Play
reminds me of one I witnessed in Rome in
1920. In the middle of it I became aware of
the fact that the l principal actor was sitting
in the row beside me. He was the Speaking
image of the Christ as represented in a
thousand Renaissance pictures, and the like-
ness even, persisted after the show was over
and, putting a hard-hitter on his head and a
cigarette in his mouth, he sauntered non-
chalantly off into the' street and hailed a
motor-’bus.
“Ga-lleryite”: Mention of families playing
on the same stage recalls the Simonsens in
opera. Papa Martin Simonsen conducted,
with the missus as Lange and daughters
Frances Saville (Amaranthe) and Leonora
Simonsen (Clairette) in “Madame Angot.”
In “Der Fi’eischutz,” the cast included ma
as Agnes, the third daughter, Martina, as
Anne, and Frances as the First Bridesmaid,
with pa holding the baton. The family were
well to the fore in all the operas.
“L. de It.”: Betty Davies, author of “The
Touch of Silk,” has won the first prize for a
one-acter presented by the Australian Litera-
ture Society, a Melbourne organisation.
“The Rag”: Agree with “Cauboy” (B.
25/6/’3O) that Kellaway’s acting of the
Polite Lunatic in “The Belle of New York”
is a brilliant individual effort, but I doubt
very much whether it is a helpful contribution
to the entertainment. It is a piece of
horrific realism in a setting composed entirely
of incredibilities. The contrast is far too
arresting. It is like getting a nice mea<t
dinner and trying to eat it in the abattoirs.
In cold, realistic tragedy Kelleway’s creation
would be a memorable" acting achievement.
In this warm, romantic comedy it seems to
me a misinterpretation of the part.
“T.P.”: I don’t know whether Cecil Kella-
way (B. 25/6/’3O) worked out his inimit-
able lunatic without reference to treatises
on insanity, but J. C. Williamson, in creat-
ing John Stofel, devoured everything within
reach on the subject of the mentally afflicted.
Dr. Neild, of Melbourne, on whose advice
and by whose help “Struck Oil” took its
final form, also advised J.C.W. on various
stages of the disease, and gave him letters
of introduction to specialists. Finding that
shortly before death maniacs had a brief
period of sanity, in U.S.A. the young actor
watched patients die in asylums. Gruesome,
no doubt, but it showed the attention to
detail of the genuine artist. One night in
Melbourne Royal a galleryite shouted, “Oh,
you’re mad!” Stofel’s shudder and drawl-
ing “Yah! dere’s more dan one lunatic,”
and thp.n lapse into disjointed mumblings,
brought down the house. It was hard to
believe that was mere acting.
“Cauboy”: After a long lease of Mel- I
bourne Tivoli the Tivoli Vaudeville Co. has
gone out of business and that temple of the
arts has reverted to independent shows. The
late concern put on some quaint entertain-
ments, but perhaps the most amusing from
a psychological paint of view was a plaus-
ible gentleman who masqueraded under an
Egyptian name, and who, while a youth
wandered amongst the audience selling cel-
luloid combs, gravely informed his hearers
that if the fingernails were briskly rubbed
together the hair could be made to grow
on a bald head. Such was his passionate
sincerity that an epidemic of nail massaging
swept Melbourne and eminent business men
were to be seen surreptitiously performing
the ritual in between perusing balance-
sheets.
“Splin”: If Nellie Bramley succeeds in
her venture at Sydney Palace she will be.
the first to make that house pay in years.
In between being locked up for months at a
stretch it has had in the last year or two
all sorts of alleged entertainment —vaude-
ville, nigger minstrels, hair-raising melo-
drama, domesticated comedy. Pretty well
every item has flopped or just scratched
along, and even Muriel Starr, who had earlier
struck a rich pocket there, couldn’t make
anything like a do of it. Miss Bramley has
one advantage over a lot of present-day per-
formers —she seems to be fond of hard work.
“Cine Ma”: The multi-lingual talkie is
an established fact. Noel Coward’s “Bitter
Sweet” is being presented to an eager world
in English, French and German. Still more
remarkable, Ivor Novello’s “Symphony in
Two Flats” is being done in English and
American. The American version is being
provided by Jacqueline Logan and the Eng-
lish girl Benita Hume has been charged
with the task of translating the piece into
her native tongue for consumption outside
the States.
“Prog”: One of the saddest sights to be
seen on the Sydney stage to-day is an actor
of the quality of Reginald Dane holding
down the footling parts he has in the Talia-
ferro productions. In the latest he is merely
one of Three Elderly Roues, and the least
important at that. He was the Colonel in
“Journey’s End,” and shapes as if he’d fit
plenty of roles just as well. Perhaps there
is wisdom in having a fair actor on the
bottom grade; it takes away some of the
usual tailed-off appearance.
The Inky Way
Jas. S. Battye, Public Library, Perth:
“Inkpot” (B. 25/6/’3O) was very much
astray. Neither the “Bystander” nor
“Looker On” has ever been purchased by
this library. The principal English and
American publications, critical, scientific
and illustrative, are received, and so far
as I know no “w r orth-while” Australian pub-
lication is excluded. We file the issues of
the leading metropolitan morning dailies of
the Commonwealth, as well as the weeklies
of each State. “Art in Australia,” The
Bulletin, “Stead’s Review,” “The Econo-
mic Record,” “Oceana,” and practically all
the remaining literary and technical jour-
nals are also to be found here. I shall be
glad to learn what else “Inkpot” would like.
“Champion Bay”: The most dangerous-
looking libel that ever went past me a*s a
sub. came from a not over reliable person
who used to contribute an occasional column
of Nor’-West happenings, real a*nd alleged, to
a Westralian newspaper. Pie casually men-
tioned, between two mining pars., that the
butcher’s cart which provided his particular
seaport with its matutinal chops and steaks
had been used to convey a very dead nigger
from the hospital to the cemetery. The item
looked a* fearsome thing in black and white,
and the editor waited with knit brows for a
writ. However, just what truth there was in
the charge was never ascertained, for —for-
tunately for us perhaps—when the paper got
back to the locus quo an aggrieved butcher
decided on direct action and fell upon our
correspondent, whose identity was no secret,
with whirling fists in the main street. This
gave the chronicler an opportunity to pose
as 'a martyr in the sacred cause of press
freedom; he took his man to court, got him
fined £5 for assault, and headed his next
batch of copy “Outspoken Scribe Attacked
by Infuriated Slaughterman.” It was a
happy ending and satisfied everybody, except
possibly the butcher.


Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other planes.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOOTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, VV.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
M W t
ARE YOU A
Mr. MICAWBER?
Waiting for Better Times
won’t make you prosperous.
You’ve got to “go after”
business if you want it.
START NOW!
ADVERTISE
YOUR GOODS
AND SERVICES
IN
2f he ® risbane Courier
Queensland’s
Leading & Largest
Newspaper,
Published by :
THE BRISBANE NEWSPAPER CO.,
LTD.,
Queen-street, Brisbane.
’Phone 82991.
Sydney Representative :
Robert D. Fisher, 74 Pitt-street.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative :
L. S. Marks, The Argus Bldg.,
Elizabeth and Latrobe streets.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
(o succeed
THINK OF
fgdnjfgdh
SCHUTE,
El EE ILL & O Ltd.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office;: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
I THE PATRIOT
■DIRECTMEDIUM Tg WOMEN!
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HfNCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
Sail the South Seas
FOR
CANADA
UNITED STATES
EUROPE
TVT O amount of planning can
A devise a more perfect trip!
Seas of Romance . . imposing
ocean liners . . a choice of two
charming routes. Go by Auck-
land, Suva and Honolulu to Van-
couver (Canada) or by Welling-
ton, Rarotonga and Tahiti to San
Francisco. Then, if Europe is in
your plans, you may cross from
either point. Discuss your trip
with the—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melb., C.l.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN
and UNION Royal Mail Lines.
t
#
'•ininiii
fgdhfdh
T
n
I
is
Winter Tour to Papua
an v
To those people who are in search of
Ideal Winter Holiday Excursion of a duration
of three weeks, the opportunity
now presents itself of an excel-
lent trip to the Sunny South Sea
Islands by the Burns, Philp Line.
A trip to Papua (British New Guinea)
is one that can be strongly recom-
mended.
Next sailings from Sydney via Brisbane,
July 26, August 27, and monthly there-
after.
Fare: £4O and £44 Return.
Apply for descriptive Pamphlet No. 52/P to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE ’
ADELAIDE.
Read “B.P. Magazine,” richly
illustrated in color, 96 pages of
Travel, Story and Pictures, 1/
Copy, all Newsagents.
,lU.y J
and M
A
BANK. OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1811
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
00k,
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150.000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
588 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRLCT. foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND - 4,200,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL * - - 4,739,012 10 0
£13,678,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN ( Chairman) ;
Hon JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND; Major-General
the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. B. DRYIIURBT .
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and ail other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS. —Inspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Huddart Parkei L=
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; ariose Sit oat, Sydney.
Flashlights « Batteries “ Radio Tubes
fdhfd
Buy the Best
Less Often
There is no economy in
buying inexpensive and
badly made Electric
Torches and Batteries.
The less you pay the
oftener you purchase
the batteries.
Ray-O-vac Flashlights
and Batteries are made
by one of the oldest
makers of these goods.
They are the best ob-
tainable.
New Rotomatic Switch
absolutely prevents the
light ever being rurned
on accidentally. Ray-O-
VAC is the only flashlight
madewith the Roto-
matic Switch
Your nearest distributor
will gladly show you the
complete line.
Manufacturer’s Representative
W. C. SCHWAB
Box 1821, G.P.0.,
Melbourne, Viet.
x
FRENCH BATTERY CO.
CHICAGO U.S.A.
Übe IDomtnton.
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion'' is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481. WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from —
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
%
&
Register
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors —
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
3C Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.


Still cheaper Sulphate of Ammonia
A reduction of £1,1116 per ton in the price of
SULPHATE OF AMMONIA
will take effect as from the Ist July
The new price will be £l2/12/- per ton free
on rails, less 2 2% for cash, and at this price
supplies of Sulphate of Ammonia can be obtained,
as usual, from all fertiliser manufacturers or their
agents, or direct from The Australian Gas Light
Company, Haymarket, Sydney; The Broken Hill
Proprietary Company, Newcastle, New South
Wales; The Metropolitan Gas Company, 196
Flinders Street, Melbourne; and The South
Australian Gas Company, Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
Sulphate of Ammonia literature, and advice regarding the
use of fertilisers direct from
NITROGEN FERTILISERS PROPRIETARY, LIMITED,
360 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE, Cl.
HOME for cure of ALCOHOLISM and DRUGS
(BOTH SEXES)
Established 30 years. Highly recommended. Under medical supervision. Fully qualified matron
and staff. Effective and safe.
THE CENTRAL MISSION INSTITUTION,
Moreland Hall, Jessie Street, Moreland, Melbourne.
Telephone: Brunswick 744.
EUROPE’S
BEST RADIO
SHOW
BETWEEN September 19
and 2 7 the finest radio
show yet will be in progress
in London. Whether you
are a trader or just a radio
enthusiast you should en-
deavor to see this wonderful
display of modern radio
equipment.
Full details sent to authorised
dealers on request to the organisers
fdhfdhfd
Uhe NATIONAL
RADIO EXHIBITION
O L Y M P IA LO N D O N,
E N G L A N D
September 19 to 27
Organised by
THE RADIO
MANUFACTURERS’ ASSOCIATION, Astor House, Aldwych, London, W.C.2.
Hi
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak without Notes, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency. Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
REFRESH
YOURSELF
after a tiring day
lutiw'
by using Cuttcura
Soap, Ointment,
and Taleum
Soap Is., Ointment Is. and 2s.
Talcum Is. 3d. Sample each free.
Address: “E. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S.'W."
SHADOW SHOWS.
“The Divorcee,” at Sydney Plaza, repre-
sents the art of the film in its highest expres-
sion to date. The detailed finish of the act-
ing and the realism of the effects (there is
a motor smash which is literally painful to
watch) must cause despair to those who hope
for the eventual defeat of the legitimate
drama’s new rival. Much of the dialogue is
laboriously slangy (the heroine’s way of say-
ing “no” is to remark that she doesn’t look
on the proposed scheme as the king of indoor
sports) ; but then that, no doubt, is how New
Yorkers of the class dealt with do talk. There
is no place for well-thought-out impromptus
in their fevered and deafening lives. After a
while the fatuity of the conversation ceases
to irritate, and then it is recognised as
supremely right. It is necessary for the atmo-
sphere of reckless irresponsibility which the
director wishes to create. Rightly regarded
the play is an effective sermon on the evils
of prohibition, easy money and lack of
education.
Given the loafing, drinking, jazz-crazed
society in which the characters move, and the
complications depicted follow more or less
inevitably. Leisure and liquor are the
parents of promiscuity, so, when one of the
hero’s pre-marriage loves meets him again
over the cocktails, it is only manners for her
to try to renew their old relations; and,
on the heroine’s suspicions being aroused,
her obvious response is to spend the night
with another man. There is a divorce —all
these people talk of “giving” one another
divorces, as though divorces were drinks—-
but unfortunately the divorcees care for each
other. They are wretched apart, and after a
period of misery and loneliness they come
together again.
Norma Shearer, who plays the wife, is in
the tradition of such great exponents of
joyous naturalism as Ellen Terry. She is a
true modern —one who reveals but scorns
to stress her deeper emotions, and is all the
more touching for that. Her voice and articu-
lation are beautiful.
¥ ¥ *
“Her Private Life,” at Melb. State, is
the story of Lady Helen Haden, wife of
Sir Bruce, a pork-butcher without an
aspirate to his vocabulary. He learns that
she loves a sentimental American hero. If
Sir Bruce had been to the manor born
instead of merely having foreclosed on it.
he would have uttered a few well-chosen
epigrams and let the liaison proceed. Instead
he starts reducing the Norman castle to an
early Roman ruin by throwing the crockery
about, and caps his coarse behavior by accus-
ing the hero of cheating at cards. This so
shocks Lady Helen’s refined susceptibilities
that she departs to N’York. Here Mr.
Rudolph Solomon steps upon the stage. So
incapable is he of understanding the exalted
nature of Lady Helen’s sentiments that he
endeavors to gain her heart by redeeming
her pawned pearls and buying up her per-
sonal treasures left behind at Staffordshire
Hall, including her grandmother’s portrait,
by Gainsborough. These he offers her along
with his heart and hand. With the mag-
nanimity of a true lady, Helen accepts the
hand, while explaining that she ignores the
heart. At this point the sentimental hero
arrives and explains that he didn’t really
cheat at cards, so, after an inconsiderate
endeavor to spoil the happy ending by throw-
ing herself under a motor-car, Lady Helen
marries him.
Billie Dove is as much like an English
aristocrat as, she is like a Japanese coal-
lumper. On the other hand, Montagu Love
almost makes you believe in Sir Bruce, the
pork-butcher.
# * #
The uninitiated may imagine that in “The
Return of Fu Manchu” at Sydney Capitol
the Paramount people have robbed Warner
Oland of his best part. The doctor is thrown
into a lake with' a bomb which explodes like
a deptk-cha*rge. But the indestructibility of
the man is evidenced in the first scene when,
after being sealed up in his gigantic coffin,
he emerges by a side-exit and resumes his
criminal career.
This is an Anglo-American picture. It
is a relief to encounter detectives who take
off their hats in the house and have the
manners of civilised- human beings, but the
English atmosphere vanishes every time the
brilliant young London surgeon, Jack Petrie
(played by Neil Hamilton), opens his mouth.
He is an American, and so is his fiancee, Lia
Eltham (Jean Arthur). The other Cauca-
sians are conspicuously English, more especi-
ally Nayland Smith, whom O. P. H'eggie
represents as one of those pusillanimous
morons that, in the opinion of American
theatregoers, have made the Empire what
it is. At one stage he has “ a good cry”
by way of expressing his terror of Fu’s
machinations.
Vast sums of money have been sunk in
cars, ’planes, scientific equipment for the
miracle-working Fu and impressive scenic
effects, and the dialogue is less banal than
usual, but the horrors always hover on the
edge of farce.
* & ¥
Fox Movietone’s “Double Cross Roads”
is a 100 per cent, crime talkie. It begins in
a gaol and ends with a running machine-
gun fight between gangsters in cars, and
all the principals are crooks or ex-crooks.
We believe for a while in the virtue of
Mary Carlyle (placed by Lila Lee) and her
sweet-faced mother. Then from the back of
the old lady’s chair a female hand protrudes
dramatically and stubs a cigarette, and
abusive snarls follow such as no good woman
ever uttered on a stage. The snarler is
Mrs. Carlyle, bent, like all the others, with
the exception of Mary, on dragging David
Harvey (Robert Ames) back to a life of
crime.
In the language of the profession lawyer
Dyke is a hard-boiled old bozo who wants
Mary and David to do a trailer job and
the pennyweight trick respectively in con-
nection with a sucker’s sparklers worth a
century grand. The sucker’s hang-out (a
palace near Niagara Falls) is filled with
helper-guys most of whom have served jolts,
but the old bozo aforesaid is double-crossed
and hi-jacked without the intervention of
dicks or harness-bulls. So much for the plot.
The staging and photography are superb,
and the acting is gooff in its over-emphasised
way. Emphatically a thriller that thrills.


NEW
.BhwU*
r\
x. x.
\
With greater power quicker acceleration
faster speed more economy. Distinc*
tive in beauty performance comfort
reliability real value
You Own With Pride
You Ride With Joy
You Drive With Ease
You ride with pride and enjoyment when you own a New
Essex Challenger. For no one will have a more modern or
smarter car. You will have swift acceleration, faster speed
than you will use and all the power you want. And you
will have a car that is economical to operate.
Its longer*, .wider, bodies with greater roominess and com*
fort, puts it in the class oflarge hlgTvpficed cars. Its finish
and detail in the newest motif is smart and fresh. There is
complete harmony of radiator, wings, body mouldings, in-
terior trim and hardware. Even the instrument assembly on
the dash, toggle windscreen opener, dome lights, disappear-
ing rear window curtain, dash controlled engine starter,
electric oil and fuel gauge, windscreen wiper, rear view
mirror, radiator shutter control, adjustable seats, robe rail;
ash tray, etc., which are included at no extra cost, .fit into
and harmonise with this new decorative thought.
There is everything to be proud of in'owning the New
Essex Challenger. There is great satisfaction in knowing that
no man can enjoy much greater comfort or safety and that
your Essex_ is the greatest motor car value you can buy.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY,
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
DISTRIBUTORS
New South Wales.
\ .. ■ ■’ . ■
Victoria
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
136 Phillip Street, Sydney.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
Queensland
South Australia .
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
MOTORS, LTD.,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
Tasmania
. H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
53 Bathurst Street, Hobart.


When selecting a Sporting Rifle inspect
Winchester Model 56
Magazine Rifle
Using 22 cal. Long-rifle
Cartridges only.
Price, £5
post free.
fdhfdhfd
Spare Magazine,
5 capacity, 5/6 extra.
10 capacity, 6/6 extra.
The Gun House,
COWLES <a DUNN
453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Leaflet B.
A BRITISH^
Srtssrsfsesr?
Sw3?T“3s3SrjS*
do, "‘ri r tyK«i« *■•* lhe '
pressure Y Manufacturers.
Patentees wd S brQ< LTD-,
WILLIAM TURN ~ England.
Eyre Works, Factor
Procurable from Large^
/ THE
RENRUT
QUADRUPLE
Price, 55/-
{With Gauge,
5/- extra.)
If unable to obtain
write to our Factory
Representative. Mr-
rOH N ARNOIiW,
ina pS BOX 71, Mel-
bourne, Australia^
\
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Until Saturday last Redleap, whose skele-
ton is on view in the Melbourne Museum,
was the only horse that had landed the
Grand National Hurdle and Steeplechase at
Flemington in the same year. After the
lapse of 38 years, Mosstrooper has equalled
what the son of Dante accomplished, but his
steeplechase burden was 211 b. less than Red-
leap carried. On the other hand, though the
track was heavy and Mosstrooper took nearly
20sec. longer than record time to cover the
three miles and a furlong, he improved on
Redleap’s figures to the extent of 17|see.
Comparisons between past and present cham-
pions are unsatisfactory, but old-timers will
not admit that Mosstrooper is another Red-
leap.
However, all will allow that Gus Powell’s
chestnut, “made” and trained wholly by the
owner, is an uncommonly good ’chaser. His
victory, while not so brilliant as that of
Sandhurst last year, was more decisive. Moss-
trooper, instead of dashing away to the
front, travelled smoothly behind the leaders
until, accident or lack" of stamina weeded
them out. He had the field settled three
furlongs from home, but the brainy tactics
of jockey Harris made the finish exciting.
After entering the straight, Mosstrooper
galloped towards the far rails, as if hanging
put from distress. It transpired that Harris
did this to avoid traversing turf that had
been badly cut up by competitors in three
previous events. Mosstrooper won with a lot
in hand by four lengths from old Namera.
with Glentronie three lengths farther off’.
Eight Grand National aspirants failed to
complete the course. Overnight rain affected
the chances of many. Night Lark, on a
muddy track, could not establish his usual
long lead, and when racing along the river
stretch for the second time lie slipped into
a fence and turned; turtle. Neither horse
nor rider was hurt. Merauki landed on top
of the stone wall, where she balanced momen-
tarily ; this disaster was occasioned by the
riderless Kentle swerving in front of E.
Manifold’s mare as she took off. Adit was
travelling like a possible winner when be
toppled over towards the end of the journey.
Bav of Biscay (also owned in South Aus-
tralia) did a similar thing in the G. N.
Hurdle, and, in rolling, narrowly escaped
striking Mosstrooper,. Latter horse was
bleeding from both stifles when he pulled up
on Saturday, having received a kick from
the recumbent Adit.
One of Victoria’s biggest punters went
for Kentle at 5 to 2, but the prediction that
the V.R.G. chairman's candidate would
start a hot favorite was not fulfilled. Quoted
at 7 to 2 overnight, he drifted to 5 to 1
on the course, Namera becoming first choice
with the public. Night Lark went out in
as good demand as Kentle, while George Wil-
liam w r as a point shorter than Mosstrooper,
who eased to 7to 1. Market fluctuations
on a Grand National had never been So
remarkable. Perhaps the strangest feature
of all was the utter absence of support for
Sandhurst at the Friday-night discussion.
La<st year’s winner started at 25 to 1, not-
withstanding that the owners were very
hopeful of success. Sandhurst held control at
the abattoirs, but knocked up when Moss-
trooper passed him. The “two Mosstroopers”
w r ere not backed to any great extent, as
cramped odds always are laid against such
doubles.
Punters came out on the wrong side,
Myarin (5 to 2) , who captured the-_ July'-
Handicap, being the only actual favorite to
score, though Bay of Biscay, winner of the
Doutta Galla Hurdle, was co-favorite (also
at 5 to 2) with Affirm. Harry Gabell,
trainer of Sandhurst, opened the afternoon
by appropriating the Lawn Handicap with
Jaberoo, a 10-to-l chance. This event was
considered to be at the mercy of Parkwood,
but the Baillieu-W. S. Robinson prad
finished far back in the ruck. Diamond
Plume returned his backers 8 to 1 in the
Trial Hurdle. Originally he belonged to S.
W. Biggins, and later was trained by Ronald
Cameron, but now is in the stable of E. J.
Courtenay. On the middle day of the meet-
ing Cameron won the Keilor Hurdle with
imported Durability.
v
For Caulfield on Saturday:—
Leamington Hurdle: Dookie; next, Ross-
gole.
Godfrey Watson Steeple: Sandhurst; next,
Bombardment.
* * * *
Surprise was expressed in Sydney when
Murillo was given Bst. 101 b. in the Metro-
politan, although he had not won since he
walked away with the 1927 Metrop.; and
he was promptly scratched. But the A.J.C.
liandicapper knew what he was about. In
running second to Flinders at Canterbury
Park on Thursday Eric Connolly’s cast-off,
now trained by Stanton at Rosehill, showed a
glimpse of his old form. Shrewd observers
noticed that he was awkward at the turns
and decided that the longer stretches at
Rosehill would suit him a lot better. Six
to one could nevertheless be got about him
for the Rosehill Handicap on Saturday.
Again the English horse ran wide on a
couple of occasions, but he finished gamely
for Bartle to down another English steed,
Dark Isle, by a head.
Dark Isle had been backed for big money
in the last race at Canterbury, but was
beaten into third place by Lord Romeo (5
to 1) and Zeeland. On his second to Lord
Romeo in a similar race at Moorefield, Roley
looked fairly attractive for the Carlingford
WILLING TO GO FURTHER.
SKIPPER: “Now, Meta, we’re, depending on you to measure strides with that fast wing
of theirs.”
META: “All I want is get near him, and py korry I rip to brooming strides clean off
him.”
Handicap at Roseliill, but plenty of tens
could be got. Roley hit the front in the
first furlong and was not afterwards passed,
nor did he seem likely to be, although
Gleaner, Kelso’s big grey, came with a good
run in the straight. The favorite, Crown
Area, was third.
Price saddled up two for the Flying Handi-
cap, and saw Killarney, the less favored of
the pair, win handily from Fuji San (2 to
1) and Don Moon, while Remora, on whom
followers of the stable staked again, finished
out of a place. The Price crowd must be
heartily, tired of the squibby mare. Fuji
San got into a bit of trouble during the
race, otherwise he would have been closer;
it is wonderful how he and Don Moon kept
their form. Don Moon looks very bright and
should win before long.
jjc :*: ❖ *
For Moorefield on Saturday-:
Maiden Handicap: Lady Mosca; next,
Snowcap. .
Flying Welter Handicap: Leisure Hour;
next,' Beau Dennis.
Moorefield Handicap: Sofia; next, Glas-
gow. „ . .
Hurstville Mile: Roley; next, Poitiers.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
When Jack Haines, Australia’s middle-
weight champion, met American Larry Brig-
nolia some weeks ago, John was so out of
form that, though he got a points verdict,
his opponent was encouraged to think he
could do better next try. He changed his
mind after the second meeting of the pair
at Sydney Stadium, the boy from Boston
getting all the beans he wanted and some
over for good measure. The trouble lasted
only seven rounds, Haines’s right doing
deadly work. Half-way through the seventh
Brignolia’s towel came in. Verdict accord-
ingly. Haines, list. 21b.; Brignolia, list. lib.
* # * *
In his first match at Melbourne Dr. Sar-
polis (15st. IJlb.) defeated the busy Canton-
wine (15st. Glib.). After being pinned by a
spectacular flying scissors in the second. Can-
tonwine carried on and gained a fall in the
last round. Sarpolis on points.
The Fifteen
It looks as if England’s only hope of
dealing with Bradman is to ration his run-
getting. When Woodfull won the toss in
the third Test at Leeds and saw Jackson
leave him for a single, the boy from Bowral
followed and belted the bowling to such
tune that he scored 334 out of a total
which reached 566. The skipper was con-
tent to let the youngster belt while
he held his end up, but his 50 was none the
less valuable. Kippax came along with
another tradesmanlike shot for 77, McCabe
also batting attractively for 30. The follow-
ing batsmen were sent after the runs at all
costs, a’Beckett (29) and Grimmett (24)
helping to swell the big total. Tate bowled
finely, taking 5 for 124 off 39 overs, and
getting most of the early batsmen. Larwood
(1-139) was a washout. Bradman has now
joined Trumper and Macartney in making a
Test century before lunch, and has also passed
the 2000 mark for the tour. His score is the
highest ever made in Test cricket, beating
R. E. Foster’s long-standing record by 47
runs. He looks certain to exceed Trumper’s
record of 2570 for an Australian batsman in
England
Hobbs and Sutcliffe opened carefully for
England, the score going to 53 before Hobbs
was caught by a’Beckett off Grimmett at
silly mid-on for 29. The Surrey crack, ’who
has developed a “temperament” of late years,
made a fuss over the decision, as he did
when caught by Duleepsinhji in a recent
match. Sutcliffe also went to Grimmett av
32, Hornibrook taking a slip catch. Ha.m-
mond, after a shaky start, showed something
like liis Australian form and was 61 n.o.
at stumps, after Oldfield had missed him
badly off Wall. Duleepsinhji batted brightly
for 35 before Hornibrook bowled him, and
Leyland justified his selection with a hard-
hit 44. Geary was run out, and the score
stood at 212 for 5 wickets at stumps, Duck-
worth being the other n.o. man. Grimmett’s 2
wickets cost runs, but he had all the
batsmen tied up. Wall bowled excellently,
as did Hornibrook, though each had to be
content with a solitary wicket.
* a: a: *
“Headingley”: Australian Eleven manager
Kelly has been rousing the ire of some of
the local critics by complaining about the
excessive travelling the team has to under-
take. One of them points out, and very justly,
that English county players who are on
the field six days a week have to travel from
one end of England to the other throughout
tho season. Further, he instances the long-
drawn-out train journeys in Australia which
English teams in this country must submit
to —and there can, be no comparison between
the splendid English road-beds and perfect
train equipment and our Australian variety,
good as they are.
(Continued on page 36)
Footbrawl
Cold, showery weather on Saturday sent
the attendance down to 20,000 at Victoria
Park, when Collingwood, revelling in the
mud, pushed Essendon out of the first four
by 98 points to 68. Melbourne, on its own
ground, began to feel windy when at half-
time Hawthorn drew level, but spasms of
systematic play towards the close saved the
day for the home side; Melbourne, 82
points; Hawthorn, 41. The only really ex-
citing game was at St. Kilda, where the
locals, always a tough proposition in their
own paddock, kept Richmond hard at it
right to the end. Richmond had to win or
go out of “the four.” If that happened the
hard matches ahead of them gave them littl ■
chance of getting in again; so a wdlling
game ended in Richmond scoring 60 points
to St. K.’s 38. Geelong, making a belated
effort to push somebody out of his place in
the queue, trounced Fitzroy by 75 points
to 62; Carlton had no difficulty in totting
up 86 points to Footscray’s 51, and South
Melbourne prevailed over North with 80
points to 45.
# * * *
In the Rugby Union matches in Sydney
for the Schute Shield, the leaders, Randwick,
had a bitter battle on Manly Oval against
the local heroes, just scratching home by a
try and a penalty goal (6) to a converted
try (5). Randwick had altered its back
division to include Towers, who has been
on the injured list, and the change wa<s not
for the better. Manly’s forwards dominated
most of the game, and their determined
spoiling rattled the green back division
badly, Westfield at fullback being a notable
exception. Bailey played a great game for
Manly and had much to do with the fine
showing of the surfers. The thing grew very
rough towards the close, G. Bland, a Manly
forward and a Waratah, getting his march-
ing orders. Eastern Suburbs defeated
Northern on the latter’s ground by 11-6,
after the home side had lost Hammill and
Mitchell through injuries. At the Cricket
Ground, Glebe-Balmain put it all over
Western Suburbs by 26-11, the Ford brothers
being in great buckle for the winners. At
Uni. Oval, St. George went down to the
Students, the latter scoring 20 to Saints’ 6.
* * ❖ ❖
“Hooker” : Though the Rugby Union game
is fairly well known on the Pacific slope of
the United States, it is a sealed bottle to
most Easterners. Recently a New York fif-
teen containing two M.L. players in Malfroy
and Barak, Wellington and Christchurch reps,
respectively, played and defeated Yale. The
task of describing the play was too much for
one reporter assigned to it. He arrived at
the conclusion that the game was “a combina-
tion of football, wrestling, basketball and
long-shoring, with overtones of a battle
royal.” Perhaps his brightest touch was his
description of the scrum as “a monstrous
1.6-legged waggle-bug.”
The Maoriland Rugby League team made
a pathetic showing in its second match
against N.S.W. at the Sydney Agricultural
Ground, going down by 29 (7 tries,
4 goals) to 2 (a penalty goal). True, a
couple of men were hurt, but on the fast dry
ground the visitors were outpaced and out-
manoeuvred, and were at the mercy of the
opposition throughout the game. The for-
wards again battled bravely, but the back
division gave little help. The League game
must have slipped in M.L.
(Continued on page 36)


<SEI?T : " f <=iO\NG, &ERT ?”
Bert ,<f M-m-yes, l-ike to come
<=JERT .''VoO RIGHT, BUT WHERE
ARE VOU GOING 'Z »
SEE A n\an about
A Doc '7
Footbrawl
“Hotham” : That dispute as to the owner-
ship of a Victorian footballer (B. 9/7/’3O)
led to some mixed metaphors at the subse-
quent meeting of the League , permit com-
mittee. One club delegate put up a spirited
protest against the youth playing with another
club. He said he wasn’t going to let his club’s
“property” be thrown in the air for any
vulture to come along and seize it. The
delegate referred to as a vulture protested,
whereupon the indignant one volunteered the
statement that all the clubs were vultures
“in the open market.” Which is candid, if
not complimentary.
* * * *
“Huon”: The Tasmanian Australian Rules
League is seriously thinking of terminating
diplomatic relations with Victoria. The Vic-
torian body wrote to the Northern Tasman-
ian concern giving a ruling on an impor-
tant question. The Hobart crowd has
as much time for Launceston as Melbourne
has for Sydney, and it has accused Vic-
toria of gross discourtesy in going over its
head to give instructions to a subordinate
organisation. The issue is obscured for
the present by a cloud of whirling recrimina-
tions.
* * * *
“Carisbrooke”: The British Rugby Union
team in M.L. is having bad luck in the
matter of casualties. Spong, Sobey and
Murray, all scrum-halves, are now hors de
combat with no specialist in the position" to
replace them. The management has wired
to India for A. T. Young, the English inter-
national half, who is with the army in India.
He is asking for leave, and if this is
granted will be in time to join in the Aus-
tralian part of the tour. In spite of their
handicap, howevejr, the tourists bad a win
from a Maori side at Wellington, scoring
19 to 13.
* * ij: :Ji
“Andrews”: “Butts” Lamport, the N.S.W.
a<nd Sydney Uni. scrum-half, will be seen no
more in Australian football for some time.
As Rhodes scholar for the year, he leaves for
England and Oxford early next month, and
will thus miss a game against the British
team. A scrum-half of the first water, he
was the first choice of the Waratah selec-
tors for the position, but was unable to make
the trip. His place was taken by Malcolm,
who made the most of his opportunities.
Lamport should easily get his Rugby Blue
at Oxford and should be well in the running
for an England cap.
* * * *
“Bowen Park”: The prospect of sharing
a fat gate from the visit of the M.L. Rugby
League team proved too much for the war-
ring factions of the Brisbane and Queensland
Rugby Leagues. After two yea*rs at feud,
the parties have signed a truce. The Brisbane
crowd is to have its debts paid by the State
body, and the latter has been granted the
use of Brisbane’s only good central arena,
the Exhibition Ground, which the Brisbane
body had tied up in a long lease. In the
meantime, the feud has given the Rugby
Union in the northern capital a splendid
chance to re-establish itself.
*** . *
An interesting football identity in William
Baillie heard the full-time whistle blow in
Sydney recently at 66. A Scot, he was
one of a small band of enthusiasts which
introduced Soccer football to N.S.W. in the
1880’s, and played for the State against
Victoria in 1884-87.
The Fifteen
Notts made the highest score of any county
to date against the Australians, hanging on
until 433 had been compiled, and by doing so
making a draw certain. Whysall, here with
Gilligan in 1924-25, top-scored with 120,
while every other man on the side save
Barrett got double figures as the weak bowl-
ing petered out. Australia’s second innings
yielded 360 for 4 wickets, Jackson again
doing well with 79. McCabe (79), Kippax
(89 n. 0.) and Richardson (69) had some
useful batting practice till stumps drew the
game. From the Australian viewpoint the
most assuring feature was the success at
last of Hurwood, the Queenslander bowling
rarely against the strong batting to take
5 for 111 in 37 overs.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: The moderns seem to forget
that the Australian feat in the second Test
of batting all day for the loss of only two
wickets has been paralleled by an earlier
side. This was Scott’s, which in 1884 put
up 362 at Lords, as against the present
side’s tally of 404. Alec Bannerman went
for 4, but Percy McDonnell hit up 103 in
short order, and at stumps Billy Murdoch
was 145 n.o. and Scott himself undefeated
with 101. Next day Murdoch carried his
score to 211, the highest Australian Test
score until Bradman butted in.
# # * *
“Tenth Slip”: Comparing 1926 and 1930
figures for the first IS matches of the tour,
AVoodfull’s following has a far better record
than Collins’s, though much is made of the
fact that the latter lost only one match on
the entire tour. The present team has won
J, drawn 8 >md lost one. The Collins crowd
did not lose a match in this part of the pro-
gramme, but it could win only 5, the
remainder being drawn.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: The extent to which
modern Test cricket has got the English
authorities by the wool may be gauged from
the fact that one of the two historic matches
between the. Gentlemen and the Players,
chat at Kennington Oval, has been cancelled.
Ihe excuse is that, since the match was to
begll ij t J VO days before the Leeds Test it
would be impossible to get together repre-
sentative elevens—a shocking confession of
iimgiand s cricket weakness, if correct. It
is close on 80 years ago since the G.-P
matches were begun, and they have never
been cancelled before, save in the war period
* * * *
“Canny M»n”: Touched at the plight of
those English. professionals who cannot
make a.do of it on their £4O allowance for
the Tests (B. 2/7/’3O), an enthusiast has
written to a London journal offering to
supplement the £4O with £lO each from his
own pocket per match, added money being
™J; sed 1° £2 -° in of an English win.
, offer is subject to the Marylebone
Uubs permission, and it is not likely that
this august body will unbend to the extent
ot permitting it. Sixty pounds a match is
something to think of, even in these times.
Gld-time pros, like Tom Emmett or George
Ulyett would have tackled Australia single-
handed for half the brass.
Racquet and Brawl
“Net”: The Australian Davis Cup team,
which had been ordered to come back for its
spanking as soon as the Wimbledon tourney
was over, has been reprieved. It will now
engage in a tussle with Britain and then
go on to Germany, satisfactory cash arrange-
ments having been made. The quartette will
embark for Sydney on August 14. There is
a sheaf of “please explains” waiting for it.
* # + *
Cut Shot”.: Tilden’s win at Wimbledon
was his third in nine years. Apparently he is
playing as well as ever, for the American
selectors invited him to take his old place in
the Davis Cup team for the final round. He
gives as his reason for declining his desire
to let the young entry gain experience with
a ' view to building up an American side for
the future. An admirable attitude, but one
as hard to instil in the veteran athlete as in
the veteran actor.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: N.S.W. tennis
heads have been compelled to abandon the
annual match with Queensland in Brisbane.
They invited the players to pay their own
expenses, an honor declined with enthusi-
asm. It is rather too much to ask of the
average athlete that he should find the
funds for a long journey of the kind, especi-
ally as in these days he is usually unable
to get leave save by forfeiting his pay during
his absence. However, the association is in
a bad way with £30,000 of debentures on the
White City ground due next year.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hotham” : The Victorian golf champion-
slnps begin on the Victoria Club’s course a<t
Cheltenham on August 15, the first item
being the qualifying rounds of the amateur
event, while the foursomes will commence
next day. Handicaps for amateurs are also in-
cluded in a long programme. The holder of
the amateur title is Sloan Morpeth, the
Maori!ander who is now secretary of the
Commonwealth Club in Melbourne. W. J.
Fowler and K. S- Withers are the foursomes
kings.
* * * *
“Cranoustie”: The attempt to induce, a
team of British amateur golfers to visit Aus-
tralia (B. 9/7/’3O) is progressing. The Aus-
tralian ambassadors have had an interview
with St. Andrews again, and the negotiations
promise this time to succeed. A further sug-
gestion that Australia be in future allowed
to compete in the Walker Cup was
brought up, but the difficulties in the way of
this seem insuperable. The cup was donated
for annual home-and-home matches between
teams, of American and British amateurs.
The inclusion of Australia would mean a
radical change in the conditions of the com-
petition, apart from the fact that regular
interchanges of visits between the three coun-
tries would be impracticable.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: Finance knocked out the pro-
posed visit of a British golf team last year
(B. 9/7/’3O). Britain couldn’t see its way to
carrying the whole baby, while Australia
doubted the possibility of making an adequate
collection. The financial success of Hagen
and Kirkwood, notwithstanding a flourishing
crop of deadheads, has dispelled that doubt.
It is now suggested that Britain pay the
fares for four players and a manager, while
Australia will guarantee expenses after land-
ing, charging from 2s. Od. to ss. gate-money
for the matches.
“Rapindik” : The golf course at Lakunai,
near Rabaul, is slowly progressing, clearing
the ground having been a lengthy process.
Most of the stony fairway has to be hand-
picked. The labor of doing this under a
tropical sun has necessitated constant
adjournments for refreshment on the part of
the white enthusiasts. The native workers,
of course, are no Phar Laps when it comes
to speed, so in one way and another there
is an absence of dash about the proceedings.
It is evident, too, that the Rabaul Club is
not very different from its contemporaries
in more civilised lands, since the secretary
appeals in the local press to those who have
“promised to pay their subscriptions but have
overlooked the matter” to pay at once.
* * * *
“S.T.S.” : The annual golf event for doctors
in S.A. was won by Harry Nott, 78, from
Brian Swift (la<st year's winner), SO. Nott
is an inter-Stato airman and tennis-player
as well. More than SO took part, and the
surprise of the day was an 83 returned by
Dean Dawson, the old footballer, a 20 handi-
cap man.
* * * *
Orange is holding its annual tourney on
August 2 and 4. There are nine events,
match and stroke, scratch and handicap,
including the Neville H’owse Cup from
scratch over 36 holes, while entries close
July 29. The letter announcing the glad
tidings to The Bulletin was addressed to
“The Mining Editor.” Whether this was
due to inadvertence or to a consciousness of
the outstanding capacity of the local divot-
diggers can only be surmised.
Car and Cycle
“Disc Clutch”: Trying a case in which
the speed of a motor-car was involved, a
Maoriland Judge recently suggested that
it would make more for safety if drivers
accustomed themselves to consider speed in
terms of feet a second instead of niiles per
hour. This can be easily done by adding
50 per cent, to the m.p.h. on the speedometer,
the total showing the number of feet per
second being travelled. There seems a lot
in ’Sonah’s contention that the realisation
of the space covered in a tiny fraction of
time would tend to make motorists more
careful.
* * * *
“Garry” : Conditions of this yea«r’s Indian-
apolis 500, which were expected to favor the
big stock-model cars by allowing a larger
cylinder-capacity than before and banning
superchargers, didn’t have that effect. First
four places were filled by Miller cars, which
though they are sold for road use are
frankly racers. Average time of Billy
Arnold, the winner, was 100.44 m.p.h., 0.79
m.p.h. slower than the record for the race
made by Do Paolo, driving a Dusenberg,
in 1925. One effect of the new rules was to
bar the Bentley, the nearest British approach
to the Miller, from competing. A special
ordinance prohibited the use of more than
two poppet valves to each cylinder. There
were several crashes and a mechanic was
killed.
“Whizz”: Woolf Barnato, one of Eng-
land’s finest car-drivers on road or track, is
to be congratulated on his decision to
retire from the speed ga<me while his neck
is yet unbroken. Though he drives for the
Bentley Company, Barnato is a millionaire,
much of Uncle Barney’s Jo’burg money hav-
ing come his way. Conspicuous among his
many successes is his record of four wins in
the great French road race, the Grand
d’Endurance Prix over the Le Mans circuit,
a 24-hour job.
* * * *
“Pore du Chemin”: Britain has at last
fallen into line with the Continent and
many of the American cities and States by
abolishing the speed limit for motor-cars.
The limitation has never had any practical
effect, if for no other reason than that it is
almost impossible for the man on the ground
to correctly gauge the pace of a car, unless
it is timed by two watches over a measured
mile, a method rarely practicable. It is
less _ than 40 years since the regulation
requiring every self-propelled vehicle on the
public roads to be preceded by a man with
a red flag was repealed. Now the other
extreme ha*s been reached.
* * * *
“Kick Starter’’: British motor-cycles had
a field day in the German Grand Prix over
the Nurnhurg circuit, one of the stiffest of
its kind. There were the usual three events
for senior, lightweight and junior cycles, all
being won by British riders. Graham Walker,
who won the senior event, is a noted rider,
holding the world’s record for fastest pace in
a race of tho kind, 81 m.p.h., put up in the
Ulster Grand Prix. This is his second win
in the German event, in which he averaged
66 m.p.h.
t- *
“Hotham”: The L.V.W. 50-mile road
race from the Dandenongs to Melbourne was
responsible for an unusual accident the other
day. There was a close finish, and in the
scramble for the line one of the leaders
fell, the two finishing judges and several
spectators being sent flying in the smash-up
that followed. The onlookers came off. with
nothing worse than a loss of dignity, but
the judges were both casualties, one receiving
a badly-broken leg.
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer”: The British amateur ath-
letic championships resulted in the restora-
tion of British prestige, which has been
lowered of recent years by American and
Continental opposition. The 100 was won
by C. Berger, of Holland, in the hot time
of 9 9-lOsee., but Engelheart, of .England,
turned the tables on the winner in the 220,
run in even time. Save for the 4 miles,
which went to the inevitable Finn (Virtanen,
in this instance), Britain took all the other
track events. Lord Burghley scored a great
double in the 120 and 440 hurdles, run in
15 l-ssec. and 53 4-ssec. respectively, the
first equalling the Australasian record, and
the second beating Pur best by seconds.
* * * *
“Spike”: An appeal for funds published
by the organisers of the British team
for the Empire Games gives us some idea
of what our own tiny delegation will be
stacked up against. Some £BOOO is wanted
to equip, transport and maintain a team of
120, which should easily be the biggest ath-
letic combination that has ever left England.
Comparative times indicate also that our
Hack men at least will never see the heels
of some of the Britons.
* * $ *
“Shell” : The Diamond Sculls, one of the
world’s classic rowing races, was won last
week at Henley by J. Guest, a Canadian.
Peter Wright, also a Canuck, was beaten
in the semi-final by the German sculler
Boetzelen, who, however, proved no match
for the winner in the final. Wright has also
won the Diamonds, in addition to represent-
ing Canada at the last Olympiad, where he
was beaten by , the English representative
without getting a chance to meet Pearce. The
Canadian pair will be pretty certain to bump
the famous Australian in the coming Empire
Games and the triangular duel should be
worth seeing, though Pearce should win.
“Pontiac”: Curious that the fine game of
lacrosse has found so little favor in N.S.W.
It caniiot be the opposition of other sports,
for in Victoria and South Australia, where
football has an even greater appeal than in
the Ma State, the old Red Indian game
finds a splendid following every winter, and
in a lesser degree it is soundly supported in
Westralia and Queensland. Every three
years there is an inter-State tourney for
the Gai’land-McHarg Cup. The next will be
held in Melbourne in 1932. Victoria, present
holder of the pot, has won only once since
the war, South Australia taking it in
1920-23-26. At the next carnival it is hoped
that Tasmania will make up the tale of the
Australian States playing the game.
* * * *
“Blue Chalk”: An interesting suggestion
to billiardists has been put forward by
one Camkin. On the assumption that
Walter Lindrum is far too good for
his fellow-professionals on level terms,
he suggests a system of handicapping.
Under this Walter would be on scratch for
fortnight-long games, with Joe Davis, the
English champion, receiving 7500. Next
would come Tom Newman with 8000, with
Clark McConachy on the same mark. Willie
Smith is not mentioned, so his feud with the
English billiard authorities apparently still
flourishes.
* * * *
“Ride' Off”: This year’s Dudley Cup
tourney in Sydney was something of a flop
compared with the fine showing and big
attendances of previous years. Two of Aus-
tralia’s best teams, Harden and Goulburn,
did not enter, and there were no competitors
from other States. The Cup went deserv-
edly to Muswellbrook, which beat Gundagai
in the final by 10 goals to 3. This is Mus-
wellbrook’s third win since the Cup was put
up in 1910, the first being in 1911. It is
worth noting that D. M. Bell, skipper a*nd
back in last week’s match, filled the same
positions in the two previous winning games.
The Garvan Cup, a subsidiary handicap
event, was won by a composite team, the
Assamanders, in which the redoubtable Curtis
Skene figured prominently.
❖ % ❖ :j:
“Whizz”: Britannia has exercised her
privilege as a lady, and changed her mind
about withdrawing from the Schneider Cup
air race. The British already hold the cup
with a record of 357.7 m.p.h., and this time
will try to better that with a Gloster-
Napier 6, which was flown in the last race
at a rate of 336 m.p.h. The engine has been
modified, and it is expected that when tuned
up it will knock out another 25 m.p.h.


MADE AND GUARANTEED BY
THE AUTOSTROP SAFETY RAZOR
CO., LTD., 197-207, CITY ROAD,
LONDON, ENG.
.
.
Wm.
- '
e
*'• -vi
m
i
Mm
J
*q
M*
i&V
r-
‘J-
J
.
,'S.,
s
n
v i
,Jp
4
JS
■
'>.■•• i
NOW
18
FOR
FIVE
Ground, honed and finished in pne com-
tinuous operation. Human error elimin-
ated by wonderful new machines. For
the first time! New shaped holes allow
17 % extra weight—give “hollow-ground”
rigidity. Probak blades fit two-edged safety
razors. Sold everywhere at fixed prices
—1 /8 per packet of 5, 3/4 per packet of 10.
Q old-fashioned “wafer” blades
varied because made separately
® variation impossible in
Probak blades*made from
continuous steel ribbon
PROBAK
BLADES
MANAGING AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA:
PHIPSON & CO., LTD., 181, CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
¥
MARY ANN STREET, ULTIMO.
(’Phone: M 4247).
Forster s Bedsteads Ltd.
manufactured the first
Hospital Bedstead in
Australia, and are still
manufacturing the finest
Hospital Bedsteads used
throughout the Common-
wealth.
y
G3S
This Mobile Bedstead is the hnest hospital bedstead made.
The mobile attachment at foot is simply manipulated without
jolting the patient. The large ball-bearing rubber-tyred castors
ensure smooth wheeling. Fitted with Hercules Diamond Wire.
hfdghfd
HOSPITAL DRESSING TROLLEY.
Large, easy-running 4in. Castors, ball-
bearing, nickel rail round ends and back of
top. Size of top, 2 sin. x 1 Bin. Height from
floor, 38in.
Manufacturers of all kinds of Metallic Beds for the
Household, Hospitals, Ships, Institutions, or for any
special purpose.
Established 1859.
Still leaders of the trade with ranges of new designs.
THE LARGEST PLANT OF ITS KIND IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE
Manufacturers also of Wood Beds* Ice Chests, Mattresses, Chairs, also Steel Shelving, Lockers and Cupboards.


’ Mae ™ r ”
m
H BHnSI
m
■
J
■
■L'P'*--
H
■
■H
■
m
■
a
m
ms
WM
■
Wm
M
U
m
I
HHi
■
*
n n
P
1
m
■
1
AIM
M
Ml
I
'
: >■
m
gpMuHi
I
n
l
&ftatoapaMaiMniri^iw<>^i!>w^nw«[»oQiaj]j»(tttfwijaiiiiiw>»i>iiiwiBirT
“I advise you to take me with you.”
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.
(As good for Women as for Men.)


Monday to Friday,
A la Carte Dining and Supper
Service.
Minimum charge 7/6. Dancing till
] a.m. Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY LATE GALA NIGHT.
Special Table d’hote Dinner, 21/-
Special Supper from 10 o’clock,
12/6; or a la Carte, minimum, 12/6
Afternoon Tea Dansant—
Monday to Friday, 3.30 to 5.30, 2/6
Saturday, 4/-
’Phone M 4 I 3 1 for your reservation.
BENGERS
I Pood @
Write jor booklet to : —BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
In the Crisis
of Illness
as well as during tempo-
rary sickness or digestive
derangement, Ben g e r’s
Food is always the safe
food to give.
Whenever special nourish-
ment is required use
Benger s also as an extra
“between-meal’' Food.
hfdhfd
Food
Regd. Tuadic Mask.
Under*
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1920
To H:M.
Kin*
George V
CHAMPAGNE
m
Australasian Agents
S wift & Company Li mi tad
SYDNEY.
CHampaONS.
'•HiMDAr.KC I W/Jj
S\vyA
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Afjer is—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Have you
ordered
Kraft Chesses?
If any man says Sydney is a city of unbe-
lievers let him visit the basement of the
Town Hall on Wednesday between twelve
and half-past three, and he will meet the
sick and the stricken praying not only for
their ow T n needs but for the needs of their
neighbors. Hard times, they say, have
brought about the spiritual blooming, and,
though the fastidious might object to the
publicity of this general prayer, there are
those, tremulous equally with hope and fear,
who only remember “Where two or three
are gathered together in my name, there am
I in the midst of them.” Here, homely
personal, intimate things are prayed for. The
minister on his platform having received a
written request offers up the petition, and
it is echoed by hundreds of voices—men’s
voices,. women’s voices, childish trebles. A
man with a fawn top-coat, very baggy in out-
line, bows his head over a Malacca walking-
stick. Near by a woman dressed in an in-
discriminate collection of garments—red
coat, blue hat, green skirt —holds her
hands tightly before her eyes. They are
thin hands, accusingly so to any other woman
who has come from a good lunch. You
wonder, yet dread to see, what the eyes are
like. A young boy and girl, obviously brother
and sister, sit. with tightly clasped hands.
Nearly every chair in the many rows
held an occupant; every face was worried,
every hand was an anxious, fumbling hand.
Was it the woman in the faded green hat
who wanted to let her rooms? Was it this
elderly harassed woman who prayed that her
husband might be saved from his besetting
sin? Was that pretty girl -with the sugges-
tive stick the one who sought to be freed
from the rheumatism that threatened to bring
disaster upon her invalided mother and her-
self?
The voice of the minister went on, praying,
praying. And the drab walls faded away' into
green aisles and leafy arcades, the garish
electrics swung pendant stars from a sky of
blue. God walked in His garden, and held
converse with his creatures. “Give me
health.... Give my children bread.. „. Give
me work for my hands idle these twelve
months.... I have eaten of the tree of know-
ledge ; grant me forgiveness.” You remem-
bered with shame the thoughtless mumble of
your own morning “Give us this day our
daily bread.”
With extraordinary fervor the praying
continued. The room became an enormous
censer of thoughts, aspirations and desires.
The sky was blue, the sun shone. Perhaps
that was the unfurling of the banner of hope.
At the spring shows the skirts are long,
one supposes to match the faces worn since
Mi*. Scull in sent us his latest valentine. In
every skirt godets and pleats prevail, and
every dress, of a soft material wears frills
draped and pleated, yet withal flat as to
outline. Frills, jabots, ruchings, flouncings,
fringes, capes and all the, fripperies that had
seemed dead during the long regime of the
jumper suit, the tight-fitting hat and the
boyish figure are rioting in the most allur-
ing way about David Jones’s show room,
A high-wadsted frock in chiffons patterned
like a cottage garden flows long and full to
the ground. About its throat trembles a
finely pleated chiffon frill, and its short sleeves
are ruched with the same. It is a mixture
of Jane Austen and Suckling, for, even in
No. 6’s beneath its long and wide-spread
hem, Sweeting’s feet might look like the
little mice that stole in and out as if they
feared the light.
Long-handled sunshades are to be carried
with this summer’s frocks; the length of
the incoming muslins and chiffons demands it.
In the second act of “The Garden of Eden,”
Edith Taliaferro carries such a fluffy black
trifle as the Empress Eugenie herself might
have sported. With it go the most delicious
yellow organdie frock, tight of bodice, ankle-
long, and all frills, with elbow-long black
suede gloves. Whait a seductive figure the
actress has—a pocket-edition Venus, all line
and no furrows or hillocks. When she
strides across stage in outraged dignity and
cami-knickers, you can’t but feel glad that
this form of exit hasn’t become popular with
grand-opera heroines. Imagine a Toti dal
Monte or an Austral in such undress!
Cranleigh Barton, the Maoriland water-
colorist who studied his art at the Slade
and in France for four years, is back in
Sydney. Cranleigh has been in his native
Christchurch for 12 months, giving exhibi-
tions and selling well. He is now on his
way to London again, leaving behind him
some work with the Grosvenor Galleries and
Rubery Bennett.
On one golden morning, when Cran-
leigh had a show at the Graham in London,
Queen Mary walked in unannounced, and
accompanied only by Lady Mary Trefusis.
He hadn’t known she was coming. a*nd at
the moment was negotiating a sale. The
buyer, a lady, promptly signalled the artist
with her eyes that her own affairs could
wait, and retired into a corner. The Maori-
lander, not halving his book of Court
etiquette-in-emergencies handy, did nothing
at all, till he saw her Majesty was
coming direct to him. “Are you Mr.
Barton?” she a<sked, in her rather deep
contralto voice. The artist bowed. The
Queen spoke of Enzed, drew out her lor-
gnettes, inspected every picture, and
pointed out the two she intended to buy.
One was a Bligh-street study, the other a
glimpse of Wanganui River. Then she
said, “Have you any other studies un-
framed?” and when the young man blush-
ingly drew forth a great portfolio the Queen
and her lady-in-waiting (who had also been
to Maoriland and Sydney) examined every
one of 40 pictures. “So easy to talk to, you
quite forget she’s royalty, although,” Cran-
leigh adds, “somehow you never forget she’s
the Queen.”
And for the guidance of any other of this
Letter’s readers who might go to London
and be dropped in on by the Queen, you
say “Your Majesty” first time, and after
that “Madam.”
There will never be a jollier party in Syd-
ney’s newest club, the Mayfair, than the
press people’s lunch. The club committee
was original in that it seemed to realise
that writers are biologically the same as
others of the species, and male and female
had they been created. Usually when a
press party is given it is strictly male or
female. But into the dining-room of the
Mayfair the scribes went two and two, just
as though Noah himself had been the Master
of Ceremonies. The rooms, even at mid-
day, were artificially lit. The walls are
velvet hung—black velvet in the lounges, tur-
quoise-green in the dining-room. The carpets
are lush to the tread, mirrors are let into
the walls ; there’s a bar, and a pillar through
which orange and green lights blink shyly
provides a sort of Arabian Nights’ touch. The
club’s address is 156 Pitt-street, arid almost
every fitting is Australian-made. The May-
fair will favor no cult. It is not literary,
artistic or dramatic. It just wants to pro-
vide a comfortable, soothing or exhilarating
atmosphere for the 600 men and women who
already are its members.
Doris Egerton Jones’s play, “Governor
Bligh,” now being rehearsed by Allan Wilkie,
is at once pictorial and dramatic, and will
give tJho costume-play producer a chance to use
his brocades,
velvet hang-
ings, swords,
epaulettes
and thigh-
hi g h boots.
Bligh is the
hero (Doris,
who had this
p h o t ograph
taken for us
by May Moore,
has an un-
bounded admi-
ration for
A u s tralia’s
most vitupera-
ti v e Gover-
nor), and the
villain is, of
course, John
M a c a rthur.
The things
Bligh thund-
ers to him and
his minions about the rum traffic are but
faintly echoed to-day when Uncle Sam opens
up a machine-gun or two on the busy rum-
runner. Nor was the great man above per-
sonalities : “Tailor’s son!” he sneers in his
contempt of the machinations of his enemy.
“Tailor’s son!” No wonder the original
Macarthur was interested in wool! The
play is likely to be filmed, and should make
an inspiring lesson in Australian history.
Doris put six months’ study of the Mitchell
Library annals into her play.
In every-day life, in the suburb of Woll-
stonecraft, the playwright is Mrs. Reg Calla-
han. Her husband is on the staff of the
Permanent Trustee Co., and she has three
children, two boys and a girl. Her father
was an early member of the Adelaide Stock
Exchange, and it was in Adelaide that she
was educated —at the long-vanished Advanced
School for Girls. She is a B.A. of Adelaide
Uni. Her first intention in life was to be
a lawyer, and, finding that women lawyers
could not practise in Adelaide, she inter-
viewed half the Ministry, and, last of all,
Premier Verran on the matter; with the
result that John put through the necessary
bill. But sickness turned the lady’s thoughts
to literature, and five novels have oozed from
her pen. Her first play, “Uncle Bunkle,”
was bought in 1918 by Anthony Ellis, who
intended to produce it at the Kingsway
Theatre in London. But with the Armistice
the prices of theatres became prohibitive, and
the play never walked the boards. Another,
“The Flaw,” was produced by Emelie
Polini under J.C.W. management, and had
a good reception in Australia. Now comes
“Governor Bligh.”
Howard Harris made this picture of Syd-
ney’s new Mayoress, Miss Hilda Marks, for
us. Miss Marks has already plunged into
her social and
welfare duties,
and is proving
herself ener-
getic at the
latter and
well-dressed at
the former.
But, as the
Girl in the
Flat Opposite
says, any
woman who
can dress in
four langu-
ages naturally
could not be
dowdy. This
Letter has al-
ready recorded
the lady’s
many artistic
q u alifications.
For the rest
she is' as soft
of voice as of eye, and at her first levee for
aldermen and their wives last week she won
universal approval. Both Gardeners and
Marksmen decided that she hit the bull’s eye.
Lachlan Beaton, who died in Melbourne
last week after a long illness, arrived in
Australia from Scotland as a youth. He
went into the shipping business, and was
one of the Howard Smith firm’s key men in
Melbourne before going into business in Syd-
ney on his own account. He married Eleanor
Dailey, elder daughter of the barrister-writer-
politician who sent away the Soudan Contin-
gent—the first expeditionary force that ever
left these shores. For many years they lived
at Point Piper, but when the Albany in Mac-
quarie-street was built they sold their big
stone house overlooking the harbor to a
member of the Willsallen family, and moved
into one of their own flats.
Lachlan Beaton helped his friend Ted
Simpson to found the Rose Bay Golf Club,
and he was on the committee of the Union
Club for years. His chief hobby, apart from
golf, was music, and his melodious baritone
was often heard in the pre-gramophone days
when Justices H'arvey and Milner Stephen
were singing to Sydney drawing-rooms. His
friends say of him that he was never known
to lose his temper, or speak uncharitably of
anyone in all his long life.
The mess-room was cleared for action and
there was dancing when the Brigadier Heri-
tages entertained at Victoria Barracks last
week. It’s many a day since the quarters
have housed such a jubilation—about 200
guests sampled the cocktails, the tea and the
rhythm of the orchestra. There was a band
playing out in the free light and fresh air,
but as showers were also thrown in, the
guests wandered, when not dancing, about a
billiard-room glowing with fires and bowls
of poppies. Sir Philip and Lady Game
arrived, she rather subdued in a black frock
of many pleatings and a black satin hat.
Mrs. Heritage also wore black; but’ her hat,
starting out with a black crown, rebelled and
flung out an inspiring scarlet brim. Mrs.
Bavin deputied for her Premier, who is con-
valescing very slowly; the Chief Justice
Streets were there, Rex Rabett brought his
spats, Consuls were many, brass hats of the
Navy and Army Were on every side, men
who had been in quarters together in pre-
war days and hadn’t met since drank to old
memories, Harry Budge brought his dark-
eyed wife, and The Bulletin’s “Wild. Cat”
Major Moyes brought his one leg and a wife
who is James Edmond’s eldest daughter.
Croydon is a quiet suburb, and Holy Inno-
cents’ is a modest church that by day does
duty as a school. But 60 motor-cars pranced
up to its doors last week, and every inch
of pew-space was occupied when aviator
Lester Brain claimed his Constance Brown-
hill at the hands of Father Tansey. Brus-
sels lace, white satin and a foam of tulle
enveloped the bride, whose ’maid, Kathryn
Wells, also chose white. Toasts were given
at the Strathfield home of the bride’s mother,
Mrs. M. C. Brownhill, and best-man Flighl-
Lieut. S. J. Moir, who was plucked off Cape
Don by Captain Brain in his famous Atlanta,
was one of the lions at the feast.
The Aero Club’s Ball took off from the
Blaxland Galleries last week with a great
flutter i?f club colors. The knut of the
evening was, of course. Sir Philip Game, an
airman of renown. With him came his
lady, wdio repeated the success won on a
former occasion by her frock of amethystine
chiffons. The frock flew the shoulder cape
to which the new Vicereine seems addicted
and was served with rosebuds and pearls.
I resident of the club S. L. Tyler and Mrs.
-Lyler did the honors, she sheathed in bur-
satins. The sky-blue velvet of Mrs.
H. S. Notely and' the long and sweeping
periwinkle moires of “Widgeon” Wackett’s
wife were also notable. Aviatrix Mrs. John
Terry fluttered in daffodil tulle, and Chief
Railway Commissioner Cleary, who doesn’t
allow himself much entertainment, squired
Mrs. Cleary, who added currant-red laces to
the gladness.
Eirene Mort’s studio is filled to bursting
with the silvered plumage, the red bills and
the long facile black legs of a flock of native
companions. _ In some instances legs and
bodies are joined, and you see the complete
bird bending, rising and swaying, as it were,
to his native wood-notes wild. In other
cases, long rows of bodies and bills recline
graceful but motionless against the walls,
while rows of disembodied beautiful black
legs do. a ballet Macabre around the easels.
At a distance the nointed, upraised legs and
claw look like so many Chinese ebony back-
scratchers. Miss Mort has put an amazing
amount of work and artistry into these
brolgas; and the whole batch will gladden
the Arts and Crafts Ball on August 1 at
the Blaxland. In between the birds will
sprout patches of quivering grass-tree,
clumps of black reeds and burning masses of
crimson bottle-brush. The Mountain Devil
will preside over all.
In spite of its opulent name, perhaps the.
Millions Club is feeling the pinch a little;
for when this Letter slipped into the Ambas-
sadors last week it found the Millioneers’
dinner-dance not quite so populous as in
former years. But “On with the dance !”
seemed to be the slogan, and spirits were sky-
high even if skirts were ground-low. No
woman appeared in the gown of yesteryear,
but each had wrapped about her the hip-
length coat or the pleated basque affair of
the moment. Gaud-Mayor Marks came and
brought his sister, Mayoress Hilda. Her
black georgettes, gold-plated at the rims,
were worn in company with a lame coat of
many colors. Clifford Hay brought Mrs.
Hay, whose vellum taffetas were also gold-
splashed ; Mrs. Aubrey H'alloran’s frocking
was a study in black and silver ; and club
president Arthur Rickard’s lady wore her
black laces over clover pink chiffons and pre-‘
sided over a table massed with marigolds
and violets.
Artists Syd Ure Smith and Gladys Owen,
backed by a strong committee, are organising
a George Lambert Memorial. Their first
meeting, at which the Governor will preside,
comes off at David Jones’s to-day. The idea
is to get together a collection of the A.R.A.’s
best works, by purchase or gift, and put it
in the Sydney Gallery. What a chance for an
Australian Otto Kahn, if there is one on the
premises!. The Kahns of the U.S.A. not only
stock their national galleries with master-
pieces but support needy American art-
students in Paris and Rome, and regard the
money as well spent. There will be an exhibi-
tion of Lambert’s unsold paintings and draw-
ing at the Hordern Gallery in September.
The widow and Lambert’s two sons will
co-operate from London.
Harold Cohen, of Melbourne, who collected
most of the decorations available for colonels
at the front, is staying at “52” with
his attractive wife. He doesn’t often visit
Sydney—as a matter of fact this is the first-
real holiday he has had since he was de-
mobbed —but many Sydneyites know him. His
artillery brigade (the 6th) contained a big
proportionof Ma Staters, though it was,
strictly speaking, a Victorian unit, and he
is related to our Cohens, Levys and Phil-
lipses. Harold Cohen has the distinction of
being the only combatant colonel in the
A.I.F. who ever held a religious service at
the front. He introduced the innovation in
the spiritual interests of the Jewish Diggers,
who had no Rabbi or other padre in Flanders.
That Professor Brigden whose book “Let
Us Escape into Prosperity” is considered
by many to be the ultimate word in the
elucidation of our economics is a Tasmanian,
tall and quite easy to look at and talk to.
He and this Letter were at a dinner party
last week. Everybody else was a merchant
prince or a lily of the field. After the feast
came a lecture on economics by the professor
in David Jones’s little hall. The gold
reserves of tlfe world were-as so many pawns
on. his tongue; at his command, national
resources opened up in wide and flowering
avenues. This writer listened 'entranced,
grasping the whole system of world-wealth.
After tlie lecture, down in ' the street the
merchant princes, who acknowledged the
vaguest smattering of economics, stepped
with tlieir smiling wives and sisters into
softly-cushioned, highly-sprung cars, and
drove home to Darling Point and such
heavily-taxed freeholds, while Professor Brig-
den and this Letter climbed into tlieir respec-
tive trams, and madefor. the Quay and
the north side of the harbor.
To-night (Wednesday) is Harry Tighe’s
party in the New Theatre’s rooms above the
Mary Elizabeth.


m
THE KING'S
CUP
for the Air Race round
Britain and the Siddeley
Trophy were won by a
Standard
AVRO AVIAN
AEROPLANE
fitted with a Cirrus 111
Engine, flown by
MISS WINIFRED BROWN
at an average speed of
102.7 miles per hour,
beating 85 competitors in the
greatest Air Race of the year.
An Avro Avian with a Genet
Major Engine gained Fifth
place, averaging 106.4 miles
per hour, while another Avian
finished Eighth.
WRITE FOR FULL PARTICULARS OF
THESE FAMOUS MACHINES TO
AUSTRALIAN NATIONAL AIRWAYS, LTD.,
4 Martin Place, Sydney, New South Wales.
AUSTRALIAN NATIONAL AIRWAYS, LTD.,
95 Eagle Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
KELLOW-FALKINER PTY., LTD.,
St. Kilda Road, Melbourne, Victoria.
MOTORS, LTD.,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
Or to
A. V. ROE & CO., LIMITED,
166 PICCADILLY, LONDON, Wl.
Exclusive Diamond Jewellery
at Drummonds
Diamond Ring,
with Diamond-set
step shoulders,
£3O
Solitaire Dia-
mond Ring with
Diamond-studded
Coronet.
Calibre-cut Dia-
mond Ring, with
Diamond shoulders,
£6O
Lady’s 18-carat White Gold Wristlet Watch,
set with 90 fine quality diamonds. The
lever movement is fully jewelled and com-
pensated. Exceptional timekeeper, £6O.
Magnificent Diamond
and Sapphire Brooch,
set in platinum, £175
Lady’s Wristlet Watch, set with 80 tine
quality brilliant-cut white diamonds; 18-
carat white gold case fitted with 15-jewel
Swiss lever movement; adjustable band with
patent gold snap, £26/5/-
Diamond Ring,
with Diamond-set
shoulders,
£25
Solitaire Diamond
Ring. Latest
design.
Circle Ring set
with 25 brilliant
cut Diamonds.
Best value in Aus-
tralasia, £lB/18/-
Others from
£l2/10/-
are continually adding to their large selections of
exquisite Diamond and Gem Rings and Jewellery designs both dis-
tinctive and of unsurpassable quality and workmanship. The illustrations
represent, in exactly the size of the actual rings offered, some favored
designs with settings of Pure Hard Platinum. The firm s Watches are
of the finest quality and the newest designs that it is possible to obtain.
Complete satisfaction is assured or money will be refunded.
Wm. DRUMMOND & CO.,
JEWELLERS,
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
10,000 Recipes that will
Save You Money
* g»g ?- i t V
x wiiwii &m cErfaj ■ ruKi* S£
§ r 5 Ul l 3 i
n^Mp«4
5 -
f wlift
1
: .
■ ,:■
I
•V
1
■-«»»»' - . -111-- -
-3mßb’'(fc. TH £i£An : Q n A T,t> RV.
mmRMkHO# FJMS^mY'A^IHG M E v
on the hundreds of
things you use daily in
your home, your factory,
office, store or farm.
Price 21/-
POST FREE
NEW REVISED AND
ENLARGED EDITION.
IN every can of baking powder
* or paint you buy—in the
hundreds of things you use in
your home or business —is a
goodly profit you can now save
and make your own through
the priceless knowledge con-,
tained in HENLEY’S
TWENTIETH CENTURY
BOOK OF RECIPES,
FORMULAS AND PRO-
CESSES.
It places at your finger-tips
over ten thousand separate
recipes, preparations, form-
ulas and processes containing
the latest scientific discoveries.
In simple, non-technical terms
it explains how you can make
every conceivable thing in
general use, from inks and
toothpastes to asphalt, cement
and battery solutions. It con-
tains the discoveries of civilisa-
tion itself!
Thousands of Unpublished Secret Processes.
Thousands of secret processes and formulas are here published for the first time
many of them gleaned from the private papers of leading French and European
scientists and never before translated into English.
Many a fortune has been built on a good formula. Think what it would mean
to have ten thousand to choose from!
All Yours for a Small Sum.
The housewife will find it valuable in making beautifying creams, baking powders
or insecticides. With it the factory can save money on belt dressings, amalgams
or boiler compounds. The farmer will find its latest scientific information on
fertilisers, cheese-making, tanning and Portland cement indispensable.
Hardly a day passes but what you require authentic, up-to-the-minute information
on these very recipes, formulas and processes. Why not send for a copy of this
remarkable one volume encyclopaedia to-day?
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.


THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
<r
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
Wentworth Hotel's New Tariffs
Single Room, Bed and Breakfast, from
Single Room, Bath, Bed and Breakfast, from
Single Room, Inclusive, from
Single Room, with Bath, Inclusive, from
Double Rooms are charged at Double Rates
Private Suites Quoted on Application.
12/6
15/-
20/-
22/6
EVERY SATURDAY.
Dinner Dances, from 7.30 12/6
Supper Dances, from 8.30 8/6
Or a la Carte.
Afternoon Tea Dansant, from 3.30 3/-
Uhe WENTWORTH
Church Hill, Sydney
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabeltran
Tea Rooms
P[?] Contral [?] for F[?]
Buckley s-Num, Litnited,
So [?] so M[?]
The second day of the Grand National
Steeplechase meeting- at Flemington was not
as pleasant as the opening one. At midday
there was a switch from sunshine to ra«in,
with a piercingly cold wind sweeping across
the flat from snow-clad mountain tops.
The all-tweed turnout which embraces an
ensemble suit, hat and bag was very popular
with feminine racegoers, and many wore
furs. The Governor and Lady Somers
lunched at the course, collecting a few folk
to share the repast with them.. Her Ex.,
who is looking particularly well since her
flying trip, was comfortably clad in a dark
green leather coat which covered a jumper
suit of paler shade, matching her felt hat.
Mayoress Luxton was there, also Mrs. Alan
Currie, who wore silver fox furs with her
black raiment. Mr. and Mrs. George Arm-
strong, she in wood-brown costume and felt
hat, were in the v.-r. luncheon circle. Ella
Guthrie sported a black Persian lamb coat
Mrs. 11. 11. Vincent, of Geelong, and the
William Ardlies, of Warrna*mbool, were
among country visitors.
At Flemington on Saturday, which was
Grand National Steeplechase day, a visitor
I rom another part of the world remarked
"1 have never seen anywhere such a display
of beautiful and expensive furs; sable, mink,
Persian lamb, broad-tail, squirrel and silver
fox seem to be worn by hundreds of women.
I thought you were suffering from trade
depression.” To reconcile the depression
and the furs is not this Page’s job, but the
furs were there, for it was cold and grey,
with now and then a downpour of rain. On
the subject of rain, surely the time has come
when the V.R.C. should do something for
the comfort of the women in the grandstand.
To get to the betting-ring on a wet day they
must splash through pools of water. The
day has gone when a man dumped his
womenfolk on the stand and they stayed
1 Gere until called for to go to tea or be taken
home. They insist on having a few bets.
There was a short deluge of rain at the
luncheon hour, and for a time afterwards it
was like fording a creek to call upon the
gentlemen crying the odds. The men pass
through a gate at the back of the enclosure,
and are able to avoid this discomfort.
A surprise visit to the races was made by
the G.-G. and Lady Stonehaven, who were
passing through on their way to Adelaide.
They came with the Stab' Governor and
l.ady Somers, and remained to see Moss-
trooper Win the Steeple, a very popular vic-
tory. Her Ex. had a Persian lamb coat with
a sable collar and felt millinery; Lady
Somers was a study in brown, in ensemble
suit and felt hat. Mayoress Luxton wore
mink. Mrs. Norman Brookes, who joined the
v.-r. party, sported a pale grey squirrel coat
with, a felt hat of the same shade. Violets
arc l in season, and many people must have
picked up a posy on their way to the course,
judging from the display on coats. Daphne
was an. alternative favored by many. Frank
Clarke’s lady combined beige cloth and
matching fur with her suit, her toque being
of darker tints. Dr. and Mrs. Terence Butler,
of the Apple Isle, were there, she in a sap-
phire-blue velvet coat and putty-colored mil-
linery. Premier Hogan’s wife wore an
ensemble suit of her favorite blue tint, and
Mrs. T. .T. Ryan was all in grey. Mrs.
T*. V. Milica chose a black tailored coat and
skirt with a lapel spray of white blossoms.
The C.T.A. Ball was held at St. Kilda
on a wet aiid bitterly cold night, yet there
was a big roll-up of members and their
womenfolk. Deep pink and Lido blue were
the most popular tints for frocks. Reseda
green and gold, the C.T.A. colors, draped the
gallery front, and amber lights shed a
friendly glow on feminine finery, while a-
perfect blaze of illumination surrounded a
large replica of the travellers’ badge. The
organising committee was led by G. A. A.
Dennett, secretarial duties being in the
hands of .Tames Davies and E. J. Binney.
W. Williams, president of the association,
was a guest of honor, and Mrs. Williams,
whose gown was of cobalt blue, was handed
a bouquet of pink Christmas roses. Their
fair-haired daughter was frocked in white
satin, with a tulle hem. Mrs. Davies had
gold thread woven amid the black lace
flounces of a- chiffon gown. Cobwebby cream
lace formed Marga Davies’s frock, and her
sister Noel, tall and dark-haired, looked
smart in black panne velvet. Mrs. John
Glen danced in cornflower-blue georgette, and
moire of geranium liue was the choice of
Roma Glen. Test-match scores in England,
received by radio, were posted in the vesti-
bule.
Severa<l debs, in white, carrying wee posies
of mauve and pink blossoms that matched the
decorations of St. Ivilda Town Hall, made
their curtseys when ex-students of St.
Joseph’s Christian Brothers’ College had
their dance. J. P. Waldron and G. C.
Russell were hon. secs, of the hop.
The Rotary Club, co-operating with a
special committee, organised a very success-
ful ball, held at the Town Hall on Wednes-
day night, to aid the District Nursing
Society. A substantial addition to the
ticket-money was made by an art-union,
which was drawn at the supper interval by
the Lud Mayor, and some stray coins were
lassoed by sales of balloons and other trifles.
The Governor came with Lady Somers, who
looked charming in peach-pink chiffon with a
pink bridge coat, embroidered in pale gold.
The Mayor was accompanied by Mrs. Lux-
ton, whose ninon gown was of cornflower-
blue tone. Mrs. Harry Emmerton, presi-
dent of the ball committee, had an ermine
wrap over a black velvet gown. The presi-
dent of the D.N.S. committee, Mrs. G. G.
Henderson, was there with her daughters
Mrs. Sampson and Lynette Henderson. Dr.
Leonard Mitchell, just appointed State gov-
ernor of Rotary, brought his wife, whose
frock combined ecru net and black tulle.
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Linton, she in black
and white, the Gordon Sleights, Mrs. M. M.
Phillips, organiser of the Nursing Society’s
appeal, Mr. and Mrs. IT. Schwieger, Wing-
Commander and Mrs. Eric Harrison, and the
Lucius Conollys were among the dancers.
Among the very smartest dressers were
two doctors’ wives, Mrs. Cyril Tonkin and
Mrs. Douglas Stephens. Apple-green satin
that touched the ground and had a belt at
the waist, with loops of the material attached
to the front of the bodice by crystal buttons,
was Mrs. Tonkin’s covering. The lady is
French, tall and dark-haired. Mrs. Stephens
wore a long gown of ivory satin with a deeply
fringed skirt and masses of white roses on
one shoulder. Unique earrings helped the
effect. Mrs. F. H. Wright, whose husband,
Col. Wright, is Consul for the Netherlands,
chose vellum-tinted moire scattered with wee
bunches of pink and blue blossoms, and made
with tiny frills piped with nattier blue.
White satin was worn by Mrs. Russell Gabb
and Mrs. Harry Rosenthal. Mary Emmer-
ton was one of those who favored the new
dahlia-hue in chiffon. Sheila Morell, presi-
dent of the Junior Auxiliary of the D.N.S.,
was in emerald-green ninon. The Julian
Smiths’ daughter Roma wrns sheathed in
pale gold satin. Lois Ritchie, a good-looking
miss from the Apple Isle, danced in pink,
voluminously flounced, and Betty Bryant was
a study in almond-green. Very charming
was Eunice Umphelby’s pink tulle frock,
which was scattered with oak leaves of the
same shade of taffeta. A pretty blonde sur-
rounded by frothy white tulle flounces sug-
gested a bon-bon.
The girl in
the beret pic-
tured by Broo-
thorn is Pat-
ricia, daughter
of Mr. and
Mrs. Ben Lem-
priere. She
snared with
Mrs. Russell
Clarke the
duties of ticket
secretary of
this big ball.
Like many
other members
of the younger
set. Miss Leni-
priere, who is
fair and, as
you may see
for yourself,
very good-look-
ing, does a
good deal of
work for charitable causes.
The P.L.C. Old Collegians’ dance on Thurs-
day brought out 31 buds. Most of them chose
tliG iigw white satin panne for their coming"
out frocks, and all held fan-shaped posies of
carnations banked with tulle. On arriving
in the ballroom they arranged themselves
to form the initials of their Alma Mater.
Uetore joining their partners in a synco-
pated measure introduced by Bertha Braith-
waite they made curtsey to the president of
their association, Mrs. Colin Macdonald,
who was robed in madonna blue chiffon.
Wristlets of fresh flowers tied with the
school’s colors—royal blue and gold—were
the insignia of the committee. Doris Moore,
in a caped frock of coral-pink ninon and
Berenice Swaine, in floral-green chiffon, were
the hon. secs, of the hop. Guests of honor
included W. Gray, principal of the college,
and his wife; Essie Mollison, president of
the Old Collegians’ Club; Nancy Guest, just
returned after working out her National
Gallery travelling scholarship; and represen-
tatives of the ex-students’ associations of
other schools. Mrs. A. L. Abbott, hon. sec.
of the P.L.C. Old Collegians’ Association,
wag there; also Ann Fortune, hon. sec. of
the club, in a gown of cerise georgette. The
Russell Lambles, Betty Bedggood, in figured
taffeta, and Yvonne Cohen, in almond-green
chiffon, were also among the dancers.
The East and West St. Kilda Auxiliary of
St. Vincent’s Hospital organised an excep-
tionally nice dance-cam-bridge party to aid
its week-end enterprise at Ormond H’all.
Mayor and Mayoress Robinson, of St. Kilda,
looked in on the happening, she wearing
black velvet and chiffon, and the Town
Clerk, Fred Chamberlin, and his wife accom-
panied them. The president of the committee,
Mrs. W. Vance, was there in a ficelle lace
gown. The hon. sec., Mrs. F. F. Clausen,
who danced in turquoise blue taffeta, was
assisted in her official duties by Mrs. W.
Carden, who chose apricot-tinted lace. Dr.
V. M. O’Grady’s wife, who was hon. treas.,
was charmingly gowned in black lace. Others
who lent a hand were the vice-presidents,
Mrs. M. Donaldson, Mrs. A. J. Conquest and
Mrs. R. C. Dare. The night being very cold,
bridge-coats appeared in a great variety of
brocades and embroidered material.
This is Mrs. A. M. Gillies, who is con-
ducting the Trades Hall’s physical culture
classes for girls. She has long been associ-
ated with this
sort of work,
having been
the Vic. Edu-
cation Dopt’s.
first director
of ph y sical
training.
Starting a s
a n ordinary
school-teacher,
she caught an
inspector’s eye
by the excel-
lence of the
calisthe nie
displays of
her class. It
was suggested
tha«t she should
specialise i n
the branch of
education for
whic h she
showed such
aptitude, so she studied anatomy and kin-
died subjects at the Uni. She has frequently
been a judge at Ballarat’s South-street
competitions. Latterly she has been training
the girls whom the Legacy Club has made
its special care. The Allan studio made
the picture.
The annual hop of past students of Genaz-
zano Convent has a reputation as a dressy
function, and this year’s reunion sustained
its fame in that direction. No. 9, with its
homey atmosphei’e, made an admirable setting
for the many pretty gowns. The president
or the association, Mrs. Harry Furnell, in
black la*ce, held out the welcoming hand;
and black was chosen also by the hon. secs.,
Mrs. M. Mornane and Mrs. L. Linehane.
Representatives of other R.C. colleges and
old students’ Unions were guests of honor.
An organisation known as the Forty
Bachelors ha«> been in the habit of giving
an annual ball, to which each member invites
15 guests, any in excess of that number
being charged for at 10 shillings a head. It
is proposed to apply the provisions of the
amusement ts<x to the enterprise, and the
I orty Bachelors are asking in an aggrieved
tone of voice if the State Treasurer has by
some mischance confounded them with the
I orty Thieves.
Former students of the Convent of Mercy,
Geelong, with their president, Mrs. W. M.
Kelly, exchanged reminiscences of school-
days at their dance, which took place at
No. 9 last week.
_ White satin is again correct bridal wear.
The latest examples of the material to leave
the looms have a velvety appearance, the
stuff being known to drapers as panne satin.
Beatrice, daughter of Mrs. Boyle, of St:.
Kilda, chose this fabric when she was
linked to Alan John last week.
Pearl adornments and a white tulle veil
enhanced the effect. Three ’maids attended
in frocks of pink moire, topped by hats of
pink tulle.
Mertou Hall C. of E. Grammar School, of
Anderson-street, South Yarra, has added a
new wing to the Phelia Grimwade House,
formerly the residence of the Norton Grim-
wades, and there was a foundation-stone
laying last week. Dr. A. Deeper, who was
one of the founders of Merton Hall, and has
been on the school council since then, was
invited to cope with the stone, and Dean
Aickin conducted the dedication ceremony.
The Grimwade family have been generous
friends of the school since its foundation—
the Jessie Grimwade scholarship is one
memento of their interest —and the Norton
Grimwades were guests of honor. The princi-
pal, . Miss Gilman Jones, was one of those
who thanked these benefactors. Mayoress
Luxton, who is president of the Old Gram-
marians’ Society, was there.
Brunswick was on its best behavior last
week when the State Governor and Lady
Somers made a tour of the factories of the
suburb. A sight to gladden the eye of any
woman was the drying-room at the Prestige
mills, where row upon row T of shapely silk
leg-coverings danced gaily in the air. The
mysteries of hosiery manufacture were ex-
plained to the visitors, and Lady Somers
received a pair of the very finest stockings
from the Misses of the mill.
Trifles light as air, but not to be dis-
regarded, indicate that Baron Somers, our
Governor-, will act for a little while, at any
rate, as G.-G. after the departure of Lord
Stonehaven. His Ex. has a little less than
a year to run now as our Cocked Hat, hav-
ing been sworn in on June 28, 1926 —the
customary period of appointment is five
years. There are also straws blowing in
a direction that suggest that Lieutenant-
Governor Irvine will be Acting-Governor of
this State wlnle Lord Somers is rubber-
stamping in the bigger job.
The South Yarra branch of St. Vincent’s
Hospital Red Cross Auxiliary, the particular
care of which is the “Little Green Shop,”
had a satisfactory annual tallying last week.
Dr. Rowden White, chairman of the mcct-
ing, gave thanks for a donation which will
endow a bed for all time. The branch con-
tributed £11.7 to the radium fund and pro-
vided Christmas gifts for patients. Mrs.
James Alston is president of this auxiliary
and Mrs. E. O. MacDevitt the lion. sec.
Kettles are working overtime these days
due to the large number of tea-gatherings
arranged in honor of Mrs. Scullin, Mrs.
Prank Brennan and Mrs. Parker Moloney,
who are to accompany their respective hus-
bands to the Imperial Conference. The
Attorney-Generals wife, Sheila O’Donnell
that was, was known before her marriage as
a very fine pianist. She has a brother, a
graduate of the Uni. Con., who is now in
England, where he has made a niche for
himself as a violinist—among other distinc-
tions he is a member of Sir Henry Wood’s
orchestra.
Recently we have been hearing heart-
rending tales about workless girls who had
to sleep in the open because the shelters
arranged by charitable societies had no room
for them, but it would seem they haven’t
basis. Jean Stevenson, secretary of
the Y.W.C.A., who has been wrestling with
the problem of finding employment for girls
and women who have lost their jobs through
the general pruning, has visited all the places
where free accommodation is given, and has
received an assurance that no woman or girl
has been refused admission. Two of the
institutions declare that they have never yet
had a full house, which is a ray of bright-
ness amid much gloom.
An am. dram, co., made up of students
from Trinity College and Janet Clarke Hall,
put on J. H. Turner’s comedy “The Lord
of the Manor” at Kelvin Hall one night last
week. Mrs. George Bell was the producer,
and the funds of the Toorak branch of the
Mission of St. James and St. John benefited.
It doesn’t seem to be as well understood
as it should be that the new lengthy skirts
shouldn’t be worn with the abbreviated
undies of last season. The spectacle of a
petticoat that ends at the knees so that
yards of diaphanous material give an only
slightly veiled view of a pair of more or less
shapely legs is ludicrous.
Passed out last week, Mrs. C. Douglas
Richardson, known in the art world as
sculptor Margaret Baskerville. Born in
Melbourne, she studied at the National Gal-
lery under Mr. Richardson, whom she mar-
ried many years afterwards. She also had
training at the Royal College of Art in
London under Professor Lanteri, and, return-
ing to Australia, taught in this city for
a long pei-iod. Among her more notable
works are a bust of the late Thomas Bent,
and some war memorials, including that oi !
Edith Cavell on St. Kilda-road. Lately a
book was published about her work.
Louis Soumprou, who passed out last week
with a tally of one over the century, claimed
that he was the oldest wine-merchant in
the world. French by birth, he ra*n away
from home at 12, and arrived in Australia in
1853. He lived in Carlton for 56 years, and
before he started selling wine in Melbourne
managed a store in the Omeo district.
Barbara Sisley, who teaches elocution in
Brisbane, is spending a holiday in Melbourne.
She made the complete journey in great com-
fort by National Airways ’plane.
Henley Regatta committee has made a
futile attempt to save the annual aquatic
feature by postponing it until Nov. 29. That
day is as likely to be cold, wet and blowy as
the earlier date. However, calm, warm days
turn up in Melbourne at most unexpected
times and seasons. Midwinter is usually
halcyon weather. November is invariably
tempestuous and December often more so.
Summer sometimes misses altogether, which
explains why a resident once told a visitor
that she did not know what that season was
like because she had been in the State onlv
IS months.


Clothes
for Men
nfdnfd
and their
Sons.
Ghe GUINEA
Rug
This all-wool Rug will
keep you just, as warm
and is quite as good-look-
ing as many Rugs selling
at a higher figure.
Made in Aus-
tralia. Revers-
ible pattern ..
Order one to-day.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED,
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
Toowoomba. Longreach. , Townsville.
DOING WITHOUT
Doing without things you can afford is a sounder economy plan than doing
without those you cannot afford anyway. The one is voluntary economy,
the other merely the involuntary act of necessity, yet too often are they
confused.
You can’t save money you haven’t got, but you can save some proportion
of what you have. Systematise your economy with a Bank Pass Book.
Neither the Pass Book nor the Savings Bank Account it represents cost
you anything, and the Service of the. Commonwealth Savings Bank is
offered from its many branches and from all Post Offices.
©iinonwealtl) Savings JBank of Hustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who o tiers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner c,
la carte from 1/6. Inclusive winter tariff, £3/13/6
weekly. Special quotations for sporting bodies, etc.
Situated right opposite Spencer Street Station, no
taxi fares; railway porter carries baggage across if
necessary. Please write for detailed tariff card.
Carlyon’s Hotel is sufficient address.
THE PASSAGE
By VANCE PALMER
ILLUSTRATIONS BY ARIA
CHAPTER XXXI.
Loose Threads.
LAVINIA was going down. There was
nothing catastrophic about its decline,
but as Kunkel i-epeated to everyone
at the store, when a place like that stopped
growing it began to die. For some time
there had been fewer houses occupied dur-
ing the summer, fewer cars darting about
the sandy tracks that led to the beach.
Some of the cottages were even being
bodily removed to other places, and ah-eady
the neat, grassed streets near the headland
had the iook of gums from which the
best teeth have been drawn. The pi-ospect
Osborne had held out of Lavinia becoming
the most popular pleasure-resort on the
coast was proving a frost. They had been
unsuccessful in getting the railway there,
in spite of Osborne’s lavish entertainment
of successive Ministers, and the road that-
had been the delight of motorists when the
syndicate first started spending money on
it had gradually subsided into a string of
potholes, owing to the foundations having
been laid badly in the sandy soil. That
road had become a joke to visitors, and
a worry to local l-atepayers. Whenever a
bad patch of it was mended, other bad
patches appeared on either side.
“Don’t run out to Lavinia,” motorists on
the main road warned one another. “You’ll
stand a chance of breaking an axle.”
But the worst blow to the place was
Osborne’s own defection. He and his
syndicate had quietly sold their elaboi-ate
hotel and had purchased another place on
some lakes near the sea, thirty miles fui-ther
north. Already their spontaneous joy in
the new discovery was beginning to make
itself heard. They had found a .place
where all the most arresting things in
Natui-e miraculously met in an area of a
few thousand acres. Mountains whose heads
were in the clouds dropped down sheer
into still, deep lakes that were within the
sound of combers breaking on dazzling
beaches. Ardlethan, it appeared, was
Osborne’s final reward for a life of pioneer-
ing. There, as soon as the forty-perch
blocks of the three-thousand acre estate
were sold, would be built a modern hydro
and golf course that would attract every
pleasure-seeker in the continent.
Osborne, himself, an uncomfortably stout
man now, very bald, grey and glossy, had
been little seen at Lavinia for years. He
let it be known that he had been driven
away from the place by mosquitoes. They
bred in millions, he said, in the swamps
and paddymelon country at the back of
Lavinia, and made life a torture there for
a man with a sensitive skin. There were,
of course, no swamps near Ardlethan, not
a single pothole of water where a mosquito
could breed, for the lakes had outlets to
the sea.
“T’at Osborne,” said Kunkel, “he know
when to get out at the right time. Places
like Lavinia, they go ahead and then they
don’t. It’s always the same in this coun-
try. A thing looks like it’s growing, and
then it wither up. Not enough dept’ in
the soil! T’at Osborne always knows ahead
when the change come, and he gets out
rightside up.”
He repeated his ideas monotonously
to the men who came in to hear the gramo-
phone in the evenings. There was a blight
on new countries that made things wither
up before were properly rooted. Look
at the deserted orange orchards on the road
to the township, with broken fences and
trees running to wood! Look at the tumble-
down shanties you saw in places that wei*e
just opened up! People hadn’t the spxmk
to stick in one place and leave their mark
on it; they were blown about by the wind.
Not like in old countries, where there was
a rich soil nourished by the bones of mil-
lions and men didn’t always have the itch
to go off and scratch at fresh spots like
a fowl!
Yet, curiously enough, he wanted to sell
the store and get away himself. Mina had
been suffering from swollen legs, and
couldn’t move as quickly as necessary when
he called her to the shop. Then his eyes
wei'e going back on him. He couldn’t
take his old delight in the newspaper, and
he would have been left isolated in a world
he despised if it hadn’t been for the radio,
which brought a continuous stream of
babble to him over the air. With the head-
phones over his ears and his pipe in his
mouth he sat most of the evenings in the
little room behind the shop, listening to
weather reports and gramophone selections,
and keeping the door slightly ajar so that
he could see any customer coming in from
the road.
There was no falling-off in his business
a.nd little change in the life of the Passage.
Although Lew Callaway had gone away, and
his home seemed to have been broken up,
the boats still ran more or less regularly
and the lorries came rattling down from the
range with their loads of fruit, butter and
cheese, giving a busy air to the sheds around
the jetty three days a week. But it was
difficult to keep the work running as
smoothly as before. Martin Wiegert, who
was soon to marry Milly Haig, had taken
over the books, and as soon as his car was
stowed away after the morning trip to the
township, hurried down to the jetty to
check the cargo that was being loaded ox-
unloaded. He was full of the importance
of his job. Lew had laid the responsibility
on him before he went away, and he had
a respect for Lew that was in piquant corx-
trast to the air of cocky supei-iority he
assumed toward his father and everyone
else around the Passage.
But no one knew where Lew had gone,
or when he was coming back. He had
made his plans and set off with the same
air of mystery about him as on the night
when he had taken Peter’s body with him
across the bar. They knew he was badly
hit, and perhaps a little queer in the head.
In the three days before he had left, he
had hardly spoken to anyone, but had
gone bush into the paddymelon country
or beyond it. What if he took a set against
the place now and sold out all his interests?
“He’ll come back,” said old Tom confi-
dently. “Lew wouldn’t leave this place
when he was a young fellow, and is it
likely he will now? Not if I know him!
As soon as he settled down in any other
place the same thoughts ’d come back to
nag at him, and a man can’t be travelling
about all his days. Old Bob took a walk-
about often enough when he had something
to chew over, but he atvrays made back in
the end.”
“Old Bob wasn’t like Lew,” objected
Dave Wiegert. “Nothing ever went deeper
into Bob than the bite of a sandfly. I
remember two or three of us playing poker
with him in the cottage on the night Lew
was born, and things seemed a bit dicky
on account of it being the first and no
quack handy. Anna was being looked after
over at Tony’s, and we’d taken a couple
of bottles of beer over to Bob to keep him
cheerful. But Lord; d’you thing Bob
needed any poddying to keep his mind off
what was happening over at Tony’s? Not
him! He was soon in the game up to his
neck, a.nd when Tony comes in just after
midnight to tell him he’s a father he just
says ‘Good-o,’ and reaches out for a couple
of cards to make up a run he’s holding.”
They laughed.
“No, Lew isn’t like the old man,” agreed
Rahillv. “And there wasn’t no poker
played the night Peter was born. Worried
about that kid, he did, long before he saw
daylight. That house won’t be the same
to him again.”
At smoke-oh when they took a spell in
the middle of loading the boat, on Saturday
evenings when they met at Kunkel’s store,
in the daytime when they were waiting to
shoot their nets on the sandbank—every
free moment the talk was of Lew. For
them he had the absorbing interest of some-
one who was at once familiar and full of
complexity. There he had lived all those
years, moving freely and easily among
them as when he was a boy, making his
little jokes, letting even young Martin call
him by his front name; yet somehow an
air of solitude had gathered around him.
They didn’t know what thoughts he chewed
over when he was alone—or when he was
with them, if it came to that. His eyes
had often a brooding, distant look, even
when he was lounging on deck taking a
hand at cards. Did he know all about
Lena and Craig? Or was he one of the
men who had looked at the skyline so
long that they couldn’t see what was hap-
pening under their noses?
Lena had gone back to Glenrowan, and
none of the men were inclined to bandy
her name about too roughly. That night
when she had wandered with them over the
paddy melon country, swinging her lantern
and calling for Peter, was vivid in their
minds. They remembered the cry that
had come out of her when she had blun-
dered upon the crumpled heap in the tall
grass, the fierceness with which she had
insisted on carrying the small body home
herself, waving them all away and even
trailing past Martin Wiegert when he came
for her in the car. You couldn’t drag up
things about the woman when she had felt
it like that!
“It hit her damn near as bad as it hit
Lew,” they told one another. “It wasn’t
her fault the youngster strayed off like that
and got bushed. Same thing might have
happened any other day.”
But the women, even the easy-natured
Dora Wiegert, were not inclined to view
her through such charitable eyes. None of
them had liked Lena; none of them had
a good word to say for her now. When
had she ever done a friendly act since she
had come there? How had she spent her
time? Mooning about the verandahs in
her dressing-gown, or dolling up to go for
walks to Lavinia, where she could watch
people playing tennis or golf! They re-
called times when she had come to them
in tears of an evening, thinking Peter was
dying, and after keeping them up most of
the night bathing and nursing him, had
treated them almost like strangers next
day when they called in to see how he was
getting on. How could you live neighborly
with a woman like that! She made you
think twice before you as much as lent
her a bar of soap.
“Milly’s life wasn’t no picnic there,”
said Mrs. Haig. “One day she’d be taking
her into her confidence, telling her all her
troubles, and the next she’d be on her high
horse, treating her like a common slavey
and making her feel she was dirt. I’d
have taken her away long ,ago if it hadn’t
been for Lew.”
But though they talked about her when-
ever they met, Mrs. Haig and the Wiegert
women, the quality in her that really
roused their hostility was something they
could never quite define. Why had men
always found her attractive? Ever since
she had first come to the Passage as a girl
they had been puzzled by that question.
There were her light-blue eyes, cold as
glass, her laugh that sounded empty as a
tin dish falling, her lazy way of looking at
other women and girls as if they were of
no more account than sandflies. Yet the
men had always turned their heads when
she came riding down the road.
“There’s Lena Christensen! Lord, don’t
she cut a figure on a horse! Got more
dash about her, that girl, than the men of
the family ever had.”
Something went out of her that gave her
a pull over men: that was all you could
say. Men could laugh at snubs from her
that they wouldn’t have stood from their
own women.
Nothing had been heard of Lena since
she had left, but they knew she was with
her brother at Glenrowan. Knew, also, that
Craig had his camp a couple of miles from
the station boundary! There were rumors
that she and Lew had had a final quarrel
the night before they parted, but no one,
not even Milly Haig, had direct evidence
of . that. A silence hung over the big, ram-
shackle house by the jetty, and now that
Spring had come it was beginning to show
signs of desertion, the buffalo grass grow-
ing rank around the steps, and a couple
of windows that had been shattered by
winter hailstorms exposing their splintered
glass and flapping blinds.
Had a blight really settled on the whole
place, as old Kunkel said? It was Spring,
with the waters of the Passage a miracle
of soft blues, rainbow birds skimming over
the green flats, and the air so light that
the beach-myalls seemed ready to lift their
roots and soar away like feathers; yet the
emptiness of the big house by the jetty
spread a subtle depression. It had always
been so emphatically the centre of the
settlement. And now Kunkel was talking of
selling his store and the Haigs were giving
up the fishing. Haig had an idea that fewer
fish wej'e coming in each year since the two
boats started running, and he had heard
that on the lakes where Osborne was build-
ing his new hotel there was good netting,
even in summer. Besides his wife was
anxious for a change, and had almost per-
suaded Milly that a bright young fellow
like Martin would do better in a growing
place. It seemed that the decay that had
set in at Lavinia was spreading, that soon
there would be nothing along the Passage
but tumbledown houses and the broken re-
mains of a jetty that had once been a
calling-place for boats. So far the shipping
had got along tolerably well without Lew,
but it had only done so under a strain.
And already thei’e had been delays, fruit
rotting in the sheds, threats from the people
on the range that they were going to send
their produce down by train in future, a
slight difference between McEvoy and old
Tom that prevented harmonious working.
One day Dora Wiegert, talking to Mrs.
Haig over the fence, saw a woman alight
from Martin’s car and enter the store, that
had become visible from all along the
Passage now that the young wattles had
been cleared. Of late the sight of a strange
woman below the lighthouse had become a
rarity, and the fact that she had been
sitting in the front seat with Martin seemed
to make her identity clear.
“There! She’s back again, as sure as
God made little apples,” said Dora em-
phatically.
“Who?” asked Mrs. Haig. “Not Lew’s
wife?”
“Yes. I saw her go into the store. Flash
as ever, and wearing colors already. That
means she and Lew have made it up and
that they’re coming back to live here....
“THIRTY PIECES OF SILVER.”
Monty Grover is known at least by name to every writing man and
woman in Australia. Forty years ago J. F. Archibald picked him
out as the most promising young story-writer of his day. He
fulfilled the promise by a brilliant career in journalism.
Now Mr. Grover has written a story in which his caustic wit and
fine descriptive powers are shown at their best. He writes
first of life in a coalmining town, then of life in Sydney; of news-
paper life, of Parliamentary life; you are introduced to a soap-box
orator and a prima donna ; and all the people you meet you are
made to know.
“The Bulletin” has never published a serial which has been so
eagerly watched for as “Thirty Pieces of Silver” will be. The first
chapters will be published on July 30.


PROVED !
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
V
cal
V
.. New Zealand's
Daintiest Delicacy..
Tiny inch-long fish, unique
m flavour .. . found only
in New Zealand s sparkling
I streams, and then for but
three months of the year,
WHITEBAIT is a delicacy
beyond compare. Served
from the can, or fried in
batter, you are sure to
*rave' about WHITEBAIT
as do New Zealanders
Who send us these delicately
flavoured, tiny fish straight
from their streams ... in
cans that bear the label
“St. George.” I
• y v .
V \>
I #■
y v\
‘».y / r \
~v
St.George'
fthiCK
Irvine & Stevenson’s St. George Co. Ltd. Dunedin, N w> Zealand,
5
My God, how some women can put it over
men!”
But when the car moved on again it
didn’t come straight down the road; in-
stead it turned off to the left where the
faded roof of McNair’s old bungalow
appeared in the distance above a small
grove of banksia. The house had been un-
occupied for years, except when a party of
people rented it for a few weeks in the
summer holidays. It stood secluded in its
own couple of acres, the trees growing up
around it, the paint blistering off its roof
and sides, broken and rusted wires in the
fence that surrounded it. It was a long
while since the neighboring allotments had
been pegged out, cleared and sold, but no
one had built there. In the rush of develop-
ment that had taken place around the
hotel and golf-course it had been forgotten,
and the whole area remained a sort of no-
man’s land between the Passage and
Lavinia, the grass growing over the cleared
tracks and undergrowth over the allotments.
Dora Wiegert said, with a touch of relief:
“It ain’t Lena Callaway. It must be old
McNair’s daughter—her that’s been away
for donkeys’ years. Kunkel didn’t tell me
anyone was coming in, and no one could
come without him knowing but one of the
family.”
But Mrs. Haig didn’t remember old Mc-
Nair’s daughter. She was disappointed
that Lena Callaway hadn’t come back. She
had already dramatised a scene in which
Lena had wandered down to ask Milly to
begin work in the morning, and she was
telling her coldly that she couldn’t think
of letting Milly go out to work any more.
Not if she was offered twice the wages she’d
been getting!
Perhaps she would have a chance to put
that woman in her place, yet, she reflected,
as she plodded back busily to her own
cottage.
CHAPTER XXXII.
A Return.
Was that really the same old leaning
banksia, Clem McNair wondered, sitting up
in bed with her hands clasped round' her
knees and staring out of the open window?
It had been split down the middle, as
though by lightning, but the gnarled half
that rested on the ground had sprouted
and was sending up a thicket of its own.
How abominably they had shorn the grove
of wattles at the foot of the rounded knoll!
Crowds of campers must have cut tent-
poles there, year after year, leaving the
dead branches behind for summer fires to
lick up. Yet there was a recompense, even
in that! You could now get an uninter-
rupted view of Rathbone Island, of water
cobalt-blue, of the creamy sandbanks that
were being exposed by the dropping tide.
A dimness still lingered in the musty
room, but outside was a miraculous bright-
ness, an intensity of light without heat
that almost took the breath away. Was it
merely that a new day had begun? It
seemed like the awakening of a fresh
world after rain, yet there had been no
rain, and the day before thp car had
ploughed through dust that lay in drifts
like snow. Even now the grey thrush
whose notes had roused her with their
morning sweetness was prospecting for
water in the dry spouting and fluttering to
the leaky tank from which a bead dropped
regularly into the thirsty sand below.
Yet everywhere a greenness, a sense of
dew-fed grass and thirst-slaked foliage!
There must be springs of life beneath that
loose cover of sand. And the dazzle of
outside light that was beginning to spread
in waves.
Brightness falls from the air.
The rhythm of the line sang through her
as she sprang out of bed and felt for her
slippers, but a glimpse of her reflection in
the glass across the room arrested her sud-
denly and brought her mind back' to her-
self. Was she really as plump as that?
How dumpily her head sat on her shoulders
as though she had no neck? And that
faint hint of a double chin forming! Yet
she must have seen the same image every
day, watched the lines etching themselves
around the mouth and the skin losing its
freshness. It was only the appearance of
it here that shocked her, for her first im-
pression on waking that morning was that
she was a slip of a girl again. She had
half-expected to hear the voices of the
boys calling her out to bathe, the shuffling
footsteps of her father raking out his fishing
tackle from the spare room on the ver-
andah. Long, empty days, with nothing
to do but bathe, run free, loaf in the sun!
Sand beneath the bare feet, a feather-light
buoyancy in moving through the blue-
bright air!
Yet there was no use being sentimental
over a girlhood whose hints of magic didn’t
amount to much, after all. She had been
too restless in those days, too eager to fan
some faint, creative glow in herself to suck
the full honey out of her happiest moments.
Now, as she slipped on her bathing-clothes
and went down toward the water, sire had
an almost mystical sense of having come
home, of having arrived after a long
journey at the centre of her own being.
The night before she had been filled with
doubts. How empty and desolate the house
had looked after being inhabited by casual
tenants at holiday times for years! Cob-
webs in the ceilings, broken crockery in
the kitchen, and in everything, from the
position of the furniture to the piles of
dusty weeklies in the bedroom, a sense of
the place having been used perfunctorily by
strangers. She had gone to bed feeling
depressed and alien, her mind full of what
young Wiegert had told her coming out in
the car. The death of Lew’s boy, Lew’s
own disappearance, the general idea that
the Passage had had its day, like Lavinia!
“Looks like everybody’s clearing out,”
Martin had said. “The Haigs, old Kunkel
and most likely meself and Milly. Fishing’s
not what it used to be, for one thing. Too
much of a scum of oil on the water since
the boats come, Haig says. And even the
boats can’t do no good without Lew Calla-
MONTY GROVER, the opening chapters of whose remarkable story, “Thirty Pieces
of Silver,” will be printed in The Bulletin on July 30.
way. He’s the king-pin that holds things
together.”
An absurd self-consciousness had kept her
from asking more about Lew than the bov
was ready to tell. She stood now on the
edge of the water wondering how much
her sense of belonging to this place, soul
and body, was affected by the knowledge
that he belonged to it, too. Was there
anything in the trees, contours, channels of
this Passage strong enough to hold her
loyalty, apart from him? Had the sandy
soil of itself any power over her? When-
ever she had conjured up a vision of the
place, while abroad, his figure had been
always in the foreground, a figure with
darkly-hidden face, but strong in its model-
ling, drawing its life from some under-
ground source like the trees on the sandy
cliffs. It was extraordinary with what
fixity he had remained in her mind, un-
stable as she knew herself to have been;
and when she had met him months ago in
town she had felt his power laid on her
again. A power no less complete from be-
ing unconscious! Would her return here
have any meaning if he had gone?
“There’s his wife,” she thought, shrink-
ing a little at the touch of the cold water.
“Will she believe I came here? It
doesn’t matter. Let her think what she
likes.”
The woman had never had any reality
for her as Lew’s wife. She remembered
vividly the white skin, the glass-clear eyes,
the silky-soft hair, but she could only see
Lena in the saddle, or lolling in the sand
with a group of boys around her. A woman
who could be all things to all men, but
surely nothing very much to Lew!
When she came back to the house, Dora
Wiegert was standing on the verandah with
a billy of milk in her hand. There was a
frank curiosity in her weather-beaten face
as she looked Clem over, from her dark,
wet hair to her red bathing-shoes. Martin
had told her he had driven a Miss McNair
out, she explained, and they were the only
people who could supply milk to visitors.
She would have come up the night before,
but it was late before she got the cows in;
they had taken to wandering out bush now
that feed was so scarce.
“How long are you down for?” she
asked directly.
“I don’t know,” said Clem lightly. “Per-
haps for good. It’s my own place now.
you know. There’s a chance I’ll settle here
and keep bees No, don’t laugh; I’m
dead serious. You should see the piles of
books I’ve got about it. No one’s ever
thought of bee-keeping here, have they?
And there’s such miles of blossom. I
wa.s nearly drunk with the scent of it
yesterday coming out.”
Dora looked at her uncertainly, as if she
suspected that she was being quizzed.
“You must have found the place pretty
with angry cockies. There was a general
dirty,” she said, eyeing the cobwebs in the
rafters. “These visitors—they don’t care
what muck they leave behind/ Greasy pots
on the stove, and mouldy fish-bones in the
wood-box! I’d have come up and give
the place a good cleaning if I’d known.”
But when Clem suggested that she should
do the scrubbing for her that day she
hesitated.
“No, it’s my day for doing the Callaways’
place, and I don’t want to put it off now.”
Clem shot a quick glance at her.
“Why? Have you heard they’re coming
back?”
“xvot anything you’d call definite, but
the men are all saying it’s about time Lew
turned up. And I’ve been going over the
house the first day of every month in case.
It’s the sort of place that gets filled with
cockroaches and blue mould unless it’s
looked after regular, and when Lew give me
the keys I made up my mind it’d be fit
for him to eat his meals off the floor when
he come back.”
“All right,” said Clem. “I’ll come down
and give you a hand to-day, and you can
help me to-morrow.”
She was glad of a chance to slip un-
obtrusively into the life of the place; be-
sides she was conscious of a sneaking
curiosity to see the home Lew had lived
in and made his own. It had been a mys-
terious place to her in Uncle Tony’s day,
and was still. Often as a girl she had
ridden past and seen the old man lying
back in his chair, a telescope resting on
the rails between his bare feet, and pei’haps
one of his grandchildren playing beside
him; Aunt Rachel’s tattered felt hat would
bob up from behind the palings of the
garden; Corny Lait’s dogs were usually
nosing round after fish-heads, and there
would be a few dark, unshaven men in
dirty jerseys and rolled-up pants gathered
round the boats at the mouth of the salt-
vyater creek. Always the suggestion of a
life Lew knew and she didn’t! And always
a feeling that she was barred from any
close contact with it, and therefore with
Lew!
There was a morning quiet over the
whole place as she went down the scrubby
hillside and over the green. Very little
seemed to have changed in the last eleven
years or so. The adjoining yards of the
Wiegerts were still filled with rubble, dis-
carded tyres, coils of rusted wire, drift-
wood, and shrunken dungarees still flapped
from the clothes-lines; but a big fibro-
cement garage rose incongruously from
a huddle of broken-down outbuildings, and
tall wireless masts towered over it. Strange
children were playing by the breakwater
outside Callaway’s old cottage. Clem sud-
denly remembered Hughie’s laughing eyes
fixed on her over the table of a town
restaurant, and Dot flitting backwards and
forwards among a crowd of cars and
fashionable women. It made her feel old.
At the jetty there seemed to be an argu-
ment going on. A boat lay tied up there,
but there was no movement on the decks,
and a couple of men who had driven up
with full lorries were talking heatedly to
Dave Wiegert and the other fishermen. The
sound of raised voices came over to Clem as
she stood hesitating by the steps of the
old house.
“This is the dead limit,” a big, iheavily-
moustached fellow in dusty leggings was
saying. “I’m going back to the station to
truck the blasted stuff down. And the
boats can go to Hell after this for all I
care. I've had a bellyful of them.”
There was a muttered response from the
top of the steps, and Clem looked up to
see Dora Wiegert standing there with a
broom, her head bound up in a cotton
handkerchief.
“What’s the trouble down there?” she
asked.
“Oh, only old Tom,” was the reply.
“Old Tom? Tom Rahiljy?”
“Yes, he’s been looking for a chance to
break loose for months, and now some-
thing’s snapped. He’s lying stony blind up
at the pub there, and won’t be fit to take
the boat out for a week. These cockie
farmers think any man that handles their
fruit and butter is a machine they’ve
bought and paid for I wish to God Lew
was back.”
That seemed to be the refrain on every-
one’s lips. The two deckhands and the
fishermen who came into the kitchen for
a cup of morning tea were tired of arguing
sense that things were out of joint, but that
they would be automatically put right if
Lew came back again. While the two
women were hawing a scrappy lunch to-
gether, Dora Wiegert recounted the story
of the night-long search for Peter, and the
madness that had filled Lew when he re-
turned home on the boat. She didn’t
understand the impulse that had made Lew
put out to sea with Peter’s body; it was
just mad; but there was no one to stop
him. If the boy’s mother had counted
more than a couple of straws with him he
couldn’t have done a thing like that, but
she had mucked up his life, and everyone
knew it. Trailing about the country after
(Continued on page J/6.)


The Queensland National
Bank Limited
Head Office,
Brisbane, July 1 1, 1930.
To the Shareholders of
The Queensland National Bank, Limited.
The Directors now beg to submit the One-hundred
and fifth Report, with the Balance Sheet duly certified
by the Auditors.
The Net Profit for the Year ended June 30
last, after allowing for Rebate on Bills
Current, Income Taxes, Land Taxes,
Interest Accrued on Deposits and Inter-
minable Inscribed Deposit Stock, reducing
Bank Premises and Furniture Accounts
£lO,OOO, making provision for Bad and
Doubtful Debts, and including Recoveries,
amounts to . . . . . . . .£194,956 1 0
To which is to be added amount brought
forward from year ended June 30, 1929 6,059 81 I
Making a total of . . . . ... . .£201,015 91 I
Out of which Interim Dividends were paid
at the rates of 10 per cent, per annum for
the Quarters ended September 30, 1929,
and December 31, 1929, and 8 per cent,
per annum for the Quarter ended March
31, 1930, amounting to . . . . • .£122,500 0 0
178,515 9 11
And a transfer made to Reserve Fund of . . £25,000 0 0
Leaving for Distribution • • £5 3,515 9 11
Which it is proposed to deal with as follows: —
Dividend at the rate of 8 per cent, per annum
for the Quarter ended June 30, 1930 . . £35,000 0 0
(Free of Queensland Income Tax and
without deduction in respect of Federal
Income Tax payable by the Bank.)
Balance to be Carried Forward . . .. £18,515 9 11
£53 > 515 9 M
By Order of the Board,
M. G. HAYMEN, General Manager.
The Queensland National Bank Limited
Dr. BALANCE SHEET as at June 30, 1930. Cr
Capital paid up £1,750,000
Reserve Fund .. 840,000
Profit and Lass 53,515
Interminable In-
scribed Deposit
Stock .. 3,091,669
0 0
0 0
9 11
4 5
£5,735,184 14
4
Bills Payable and other Liabilities 348,218 15 2
.. 8,657,227 11 5
Deposits
£14,740,631 0 11
Coin, Bullion,
Australian
Notes, a n d
Cash at
Bankers .. £1,057,525 14 11
Cora m onwealth
Loans (at or
under market
Advances to Customers on Current
Account, Bills Discounted and
other Debts due to the Bank . .
Bank Premises, Furniture and
Stationery
(Of the Bank Premises figures,
£170,000 is revenue producing)
£3,790,270 18
10,423,180 18
527,173 4
3
0
£14,740,631 0 11
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
For Year Ended June 30, 1930.
Cr.
To Interim Dividends
paid November 14,
1929
To Interim Dividends
paid February 13,
1930
To Interim Dividends
paid May 15, 1930
£43,750
43,750
35,000
0
0
0
0
0
0
To Transfer to Reserve Fund
To Balance at June 30, 1930 ..
£122,500
25,000
53,515
0 0
0 0
9 11
£201,015 9 11
By Balance from June 30, 1929.. £6,059
„ Net Profit for Year ended June
30, 1930 194,956
£201,015
8 11
1 0
9 11
Dr.
RESERVE FUND.
Cr.
To Balance
£840,000 0 0
£840,000 0 0
By Balance
„ Amount transferred from Profit
for Year ended June 30, 1930..
£815,000 0 0
25,000 0 0
£840,000 0 0
JAMES LOVE, Chairman.
M. G. lIAYMEN, General Manager.
We certify that in our opinion the above Balance Sheet is a full and fair one exhibiting- a tiuc
statement of the affairs of the Bank as shown by the Books on June 30, 1930. 10 an
W BULCOCK, F.1.C.A., R. H. CUMMING, C.A., F.S.A.A., Auditors. July 11, 1930.
The usual ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING of the Proprietors will be held at
the Banking House, Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland, on Thursday, August 14,
1930, at noon.
BUSINESS: To receive the Report and Balance Sheet for the year ended June 30 ;
1930. To elect two Auditors and fix their remuneration for the ensuing year.
Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distingushed Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Ilis Majesty’s Theatre had to hang out the
“Full House” sign at Kubelik’s opening con-
cert. Sir John Goodwin’s party included Dr.
and Mrs. S. E. McDonald and Mrs.
N. A. H. Campbell. The Premier and Mrs.
Moore, the James Blairs, the Cowley lady,
Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Grant-Adam (Mel-
bourne), Mrs. Gilbert Wilson and Enid Dick-
son were amongst the throng. In the after-
noon Jan Kubelik had been to All Hallows
and given a recital to the nuns. lie played
Mendelssohn’s “Evensong,” Hubay’s
“Zephyr,” Schubert’s “Avc Maria” and
Wieniawski’s “Souvenir de Moscow.” These
were amongst the items given again in
the evening, together with two of the
violinist’s own composition, “Nocturne” and
“Poem.” Otto Hasa played the accompani-
ments. Kubelik found time to visit the
Rosemount repatriation hospital and played
for the Diggers, and his kindly thoughtful-
ness was keenly appreciated. His second
concert drew another capacity house, many
people being content to stand during the
whole performance.
St. John’s at South Brisbane housed the
wedding of Alex. Reid and Isabelle
McDiarmid, daughter of the D. McDiarmids
of Warra. The bride, who was given away
by her father, was in ivory crepe de Chine
with tulle veil, and she carried white roses,
pink camellias and snowdrops. Her twin
sister Nell ’maided in peach mariette with
a silver cap. The reception was at Mc-
Kimmin’s tapestry-room.
Lady Goodwin has returned from a visit
to Canning Downs station, where she was
the guest of the J. H. S. Barneses.
A fund has been opened for the renovation
and decoration of St. Stephen’s Cathedral,
and the committee arranged a dance at
Lennon’s, Mesdames Windsor and Bergin
acting as hostesses. Among those present
were Archbishop Duhig, the Bishop of Armi-
dale, Monsignor Moloney of St. Stephen’s,
Dr. English, and the Home Secretary and
Mrs. Peterson.
Four hundred and fifty boys are coming
fo Brisbane for the Show through the Y.A.L.
Some of them live so far inland that they
have never seen a railway let alone the sea.
There will be camp cooks, a resident nurse
and daily visits from a doctor.
Here is one
of our July
brides - to - be,
Alice Ha w-
thorn, who is
marrying
Donald Hill-
Smitli, of
Eden Downs,
Dart mouth,
Central
Q u e ensland.
She is the
elder daughter
of Mr. and
Mrs. Ha w-
thorn, of
F a rnborough,
A s h grove,
Brisbane. St.
A n d r e w’s,
Creek - street,
will see the
ceremony on
the 30th.
Word comes to Dr. and Mrs. Hirschfield
that their boy, the Queensland Rhodes
scholar, has just secured first-class honors
in physiology at Oxford.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
His Ex. was at the Hunt Club races, with
Captain C. H. Williamson in attendance.
Club president E. A. Brooks and his wife
entertained a large number of guests at
afternoon tea, the lady wearing a brown
marmot fur coat and a small fawn velour hat.
The same evening the v.-r. party attended
the first performance of “Where’s Puss?” a
farcical comedy by Edith Aird, staged at the
Theatre Royal for a week in aid of the Lord
Mayor’s Unemployment Fund and the
S.P.C.A. The Mayor and his Mayoress and
the Premier and Mrs. Hill were also present.
G. W. Irvine was producer, and played the
principal role of Canon Meadows. The audi-
ence was a particularly appreciative one.
Professor and Mrs. A. E. V. Richardson
gave an at-home to meet Madame Elma
Ilornman, of the Copenhagen Conserva-
torium. Madame is in Adelaide on a visit
to her daughter, Mrs. Davidson, whose hus-
band is a professor at the Adelaide Uni. The
visitor sang some charming Scandinavian
songs, and other artists assisted with an
excellent programme. Tea was served in
the dining-room, the table massed with lovely
roses.
The F. Villeneuve Smiths gave a coming-
out party for their daughter Bindley at
Springfield. The hostess wore gold moire, and
Bindley looked charming in white taffeta.
Marjorie Clayton and Ruth Mitchell were
other debutantes. The legal profession was
well represented.
The Mount Osmond Country Club held a
very successful dance in its mountain
stronghold on Thursday night, several hun-
dred members being present. Dr. and Mrs.
D’Arcy Cowan were acting host and hostess
in the absence of the E. W. Holdens.
On Thursday night the Mayoress garnered
in £5O for charitable purposes by means of
a bridge party at her residence. St. Corantyu,
East-terrace. Every scrap of floor space was
occupied, and players were found everywhere
except in the bathroom. Afternoon-tea was
handed round by a bevy of pretty girls under
the supervision of Mrs. Keith C. Wilson.
Mrs. Bonython wore a smart frock of black
ring velvet with beige lace fichu.
When Adelaide was getting ready for the
Jubilee Exhibition of 1887 a narrow line was
run out eastward from the dead-end City
railway station to take machinery exhibits
to the ground; and ever since it has rusted
peacefully at the foot of the bank on which
Government House, the Public Library and
the University are built. Incidentally, the j
builders had to burrow under the broad road. —
itself an artificiality of some 25 years earlier
—that runs down to river and oval. The
tunnel has now at last been filled up, and
the rather dangerous cutting leading to it
becomes part of the grassy slope of Elder
Park.
WE STB ALIA.
Perth.
Hundreds of cars bumped along the atro-
cious road to Maylands ’drome to see
Amy Johnson arrive. The flier stepped
from the ’plane with exquisitely waved
hair, the crowd cheered itself hoarse,
and the troopers’ horses showed by not even
the blink of an eyelash that there was any-
thing unusual about the roaring monster
that zoomed down within a few feet of then-
noses.
For the Women’s Welcome in His
Majesty’s Miss Johnson wore her fur coat;
drooping golden points to her ankles were
all that was visible of her frock. Mrs.
Bromilow, in buttercup velvet, Phoebe Holmes,
in scarlet chenille, and May Holman, M.L.A.,
in black, made excellent speeches, and Lylie
Mooney sang. Countess Filippini, wearing
black with taffeta bows on cither side of
the hip yoke, drilled the audience in “Just
Plain Johnnie” and “Lone Girl Flier"
before the heroine arrived.
Such a dense mass of humanity blocked
Hay-street on Sunday night that Miss John-
son had to be smuggled out of the Savoy’s
nether regions and taken into the Ambassa-
dors by a back lane and fire exit. The
theatre was packed for the charity concert.
Amy said her few words in a lime-green
frock and gold shoes and carried a diamente
evening bag.
Miss J.ohnson wore her coat of Air-Force
blue, with bag and shoes of exactly the
same shade, for her drive through Perth on
her last day in Australia. It had rained
solidly for three weeks, but the weather
gods smiled on the wavy brown locks and
kept the clouds sealed till the heroine had
made her triumphal progress standing in an
open car.
The pavilion at King’s Park Tennis Club
is a cheery spot for a party, and a blazing
fire and masses of poinsettias made it parti-
cularly snug for the club’s dance. Mollie
McGibbon wore figured georgettes, sister
Rita pink taffetas; Edna Noble was in
jade; a striking red garment was Pauline
Burgoyne’s choice; orange georgettes flut-
tered about Dorothy Summerhayes; Jessie
Meares wore green; Mrs. Poignant was
attractive in white chiffon made with a cape
effect and white fur trimming the long wide
sleeves; Joyce Burridge wore flame satin;
Lucy Rex was in flowered ninon ; Gwen Hall
in powder-blue taffetas; Marjorie Luyer’s
shell-pink laces swung from a moulded cor-
sage; and Violet Cairns Hill’s blue satin
touched the floor all round.
Lottie Hancock and Mervyn Stott recently
launched their marriage skiff from St. John’s
Church, Northam. The bride’s parchment
moire was moulded into the figure and
included a bouffant hip bow. A bouquet of
roses and carnations nestled in the froth of
the embroidered veil, which merged into a
train. Lila Hancock and bridegroom’s sister
Melva attended. Rejoicings were in the
Town H'all, with the T. H. Wilding couple
as host and hostess.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Crowds came to the Motor-car Exhibition,
held at the City Hall under the organisation
of the Royal Autocar Club of Tasmania and
the Tas. Chamber of Commerce. His Ex.
did the official opening and H. C. Ikin the
secretarial work. Among the exhibits on
view was the famous “Golden Arrow” car,
in which the late Sir H'. Segrave beat the
world’s speed record.
Pupils of Madame Lucy Atkins and Mary
Corvan, A.R.C.M., did their teachers credit
at the recital in the Town Hall. The O’Grady
and party and Mayor and Mayoress Soundy
were among the crowded audience. Youth
and freshness were the performers’ long
suit, and it was refreshing to notice the
clear enunciation and absence of tremolo in
the singers. Miss Corvan manages to convey
some of her own brilliance and style to her
pupils, and her accompaniments to the
soloists were a delight. The proceeds of the
show went to the City Mission.
The Midland Hunt Club had a rather
notable outing at Dalness, Evandale. There
was a short ,drag hunt in the morning, next
a substantial breakfast (in hunting par-
lance) from the hospitable table of
the A. D. Mackinnons, and a rousing kan-
garoo hunt in the back country later in the
day. In the evening the John Fosters enter-
tained the club at Pleasant Banks.
Pink was the color scheme at the Broad-
land House Ball, held in the Albert Hall,
Launceston —pink ribbons, flowers, electric
shades and all. The effect was very charm-
ing, and the big stage, comfortably fur-
nished and warmed, put guests into a happy
frame of mind and body at once. Two “old
girls” of the school, Mrs. H. A. Rowe and
Miss Gwenda Coogan, did the secretarial
spade work. The youngsters had the floor
from 7.30 to 9 p.m., when the grown-ups
took possession. The march of the kiddies
led by the “Rosebud” set of eight little girls,
with their Queen in a chariot, covered with
roses and drawn by seven small maids of
honor, was the prettiest thing imaginable.
News comes from the Cold Country that
Dorothy, daughter of Capt. Jack Nares. R.N.,
and Mrs. Nares, is engaged to Cyril Cridlan
Barrett, Royal Artillery. Mrs. Jack Nares
was Lena Mclntyre, daughter of Justice
and Mrs.' Mclntyre, of Hobart.


m
H)
( 2
10
8
7
Ben Hur
Ben
Base Model
’9k
Baby Ben Base Model
Good Morning!
For a cheery morning call and a prompt start, rely on your
WESTCLOX ... it will wake you exactly at the desired time.
Big Ben and other WESTCLOX are built to a fine degree of accuracy
that assures long faithful service.
Selection covers a wide range ot choice . . . alarms of different designs,
nickel finish or beautiful colors, plain or luminous dials . . . also Pocket
Watches and Auto Clocks. Prices range from 8/6 to 25/-.
Westclox
built by the makers of Big Ben and other Westclox
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY, LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A.
BROWN & DUREAU LTD.,
MELBOURNE • SYDNEY
Distributors for Australia
PERTH • BRISBANE
14
V
HAIR
NEED
HERES
■unuj -
u
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in tiie privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
SfraJl&ris CMEXICAN)
tSkUrud Staxn,
’removes the grey *
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
// unobtainable locally, posted
direct (4/6), 6d. being postage.
W
Patents.
METHOD OF PRESERVING A STATE
OF FLUID PRESSURE IN TENNIS
BALLS OR OTHER OBJECTS CON-
TAINING FLUID UNDER PRESSURE.
'THE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
A No. 1821/16 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of his rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, of 77
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN WATERPROOF
PAPER AND PROCESS OF MAKING
■ SAME.
THE ; Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
*■ No. 17835/20 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of his rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Flintkote Com-
pany, Park Square Building, 31 St.
Janies Avenue, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
IMPROVEMENTS IN REFRIGERAT-
ING CABINETS.
'T’HE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
. No. 19128/24 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, of 77
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
AN INEXPENSIVE
BLADE RAZOR GUARD
fdfd
With this simple, nickelled guard the Plum or any other blade razor is converted
into a safety razor of the most efficient type. No “dragging”.... all the velvet
keenness of the hollow-ground blade is preserved. Sent post free to any address.
Suitable for |in., |in. and gin. blades, 27-
PLUM RAZORS—Post free.
Neatly packed in satin-lined single or double cases.
Black Vulcanite Handle, each 12/6
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle, each 15/6
Real Ivory Handle, each 21/-
7-day Sets-—7 Razors in Case —Black, 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory, 140/-
Each Razor ready set for use and kept in order for two years free.
Other Specialities—Post Free.
PLUM Strops, each, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6
Strop Dressing, per? tube 1/3
Shaving Cream, Giant S*se, tube, 2/-
Shaving Tablet, Round, each .. . 6d.
Witch Hazel, After-shave Liquid
Cream, bottle 27-
Oil of Roses Hairdressing, bottle . 1/3
Crystallised Brilliantine, jar .... 1/3
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney
other men, and letting her own home go
to the pack!
“If Lew don’t come back, she won’t
worry any,” she said sourly. “She’ll always
find somebody to keep her. Probably’s
fixed her first move up already.”
With her dark hair falling over her eyes
and two spots of red showing under the
tan of her cheekbones, she looked as if she
were giving voice to a resentment that had
been stored up for years. A resentment,
and a deep loyalty! Strange, Clem felt,
how Lew had the power to rouse the pas-
sion of loyalty in all around him!
She was in his office overlooking the
water, dusting the shells and debris on the
table, sweeping up the dried leaves that
had blown in through a broken window,
gathering up the papers that had fallen to
the floor. It was the only part of the
house that gave her any real sense of his
presence. The walls were lined with charts
of the Passage he had traced with his own
hands; there was a shelf of books, “Cook’s
Voyages,” a history of the district, some
volumes on navigation, a little poetry; a
gramophone cupboard was filled with
records, and there were others stacked in
boxes against the wall. A little thrill passed
through her as her eyes rested on a faded
snapshot tacked above the table. It must
have been taken on the sandbank years
ago when they were gathering soldier-crabs
for bait; and what a guy she looked with
her skirts tucked up to her thighs! Why
had Lew kept it all this time?
But her merely personal emotions were
somehow overshadowed by the boat lying
empty at the jetty thirty yards away, an
effect of deadness hovering about it in the
afternoon heat. No one was working on it;
the couple of deckhands had gone fishing
or meandered off to the hotel. Clem had
a sense of green slime collecting on its
bottom, barnacles covering its hull. That
was Lew’s life out there, she was thinking,
arrested in its flow, creating a centre of
depression by its very stillness. Something
ought to be done about it, yet what could
she do? Look up Tom Rahilly and see if
she could kindle in his muzzy brain the
old ardor and loyalty again? Or find out
Lew’s address and write telling him he
simply must com'* back?
CHAPTER XXXIII.
Up Country.
It was in a mining-camp on the edge of
the northern tableland that Lew was
brought to a sense of responsibility by a
wire from Dot.
“Worried about Hughie,” it ran. “Come
home if you can. Things going badly since
the fire.”
The man from the hessian-covered store
had brought it over with a pile of papers
and had tossed the heap down indiscrimi-
nately on the bunk, making no remark
except that the mail was late. There was
no telegraph office in the camp, and no
feeling about the urgency of any written
word out there, where time was no great
matter and one day the same as another.
Lew hadn’t noticed the blue-covered enve-
lope till the storekeeper had moved on,
He sat on an upturned bucket outside
the door of his tent, looking at the black,
metallic hill that rose above the camp, the
ironstone plain covered with spindly trees
and tufts of spinifex, the dusty teamster
lumbering down with his dray to the river-
bed for water; and he couldn’t help
wondering why all these things should be
so much more vivid to him than the world
from which the message came. He had
been there for only four months, but such
a strong sense of isolation beat down upon
the camp from the brassy sky above that
everything seemed to be burned from the
brain except the immediate pictures on
which the eye rested. A couple of hundred
men camped in the shadow of a mountain
of metal that rose sheer and stark out of
a landscape empty of life as the floor of
some dried sea! They could think of
nothing, day and night, but that vast mass
of rock, and the value of the. ores it held.
Lew turned the slip of paper over in his
fingers and tried to grasp its meaning.
Fire? What fire? And why should they
be worried about Hughie? When he had
last seen Hughie he Was living on the top
of the world, confident of his business,
simmering with new ideas; full, for in-
stance, of a commercial aviation company
he and his partner were going to promote,
in conjunction with an airman whose name
was then in everyone’s mouth. How long
ago was that? Eight months, or a year?
It was extraordinary how he had lost count
of time.
There had been no definite idea in his
mind when he came north, except to escape
from thoughts of a brown stretch of paddv-
melon country and a boy moving blindly
through the tall grass, rising and falling.
But there was no distraction in the coastal
towns, with their white strips of beach and
their small boats moving in and out; their
life was too much like the one he had
known. He had taken a train west at
random, and once he was out on the
plateau that sloped inland to the heart of
the continent the dark cloud that had
settled on his mind seemed to disperse
and drift away into the lightly-quivering
air. Yellowy-white plains covered with
crinkly Mitchell grass, fugitive townships of
tin and weatherboard on creeks that flowed
nowhere, mobs of sheep that looked like
moving balls of dust! Nothing more sub-
stantial than the mirage that appeared .on
the horizon as soon as the sun rose high
and presented clear pictures of still lakes
and overhanging willows! A sky that was
always the same, cloudless, blue, and in-
credibly remote so that the stars stood
out from it at night in rounded little
balls of fire!
Life here was intense, but without con-
tinuity. It began again every day at sun-
rise, and closed when the eyes did in sleep.
Lew drifted from one little town to an-
other, finding temporary mates in trains
and hotels, gathering in bars with motor- j
salesmen, shearers, sheepmen, letting his
tongue go thoughtlessly in an atmosphere l
of whisky and good-fellowship. It was his
wander-year. He had never been free and
irresponsible before, and it was as if the
hundred threads that tethered him down
to earth had been suddenly cut, and he was
soaring lightly in the unbreathed, upper air.
His mind was stimulated by a new land-
scape, new ways of living. Among these
crowds of men coming and going there was
no chance of your eyes turning inward and
brooding on the past. Some day he would
go back to the Passage and his own work,
but not yet!
It was sheer chance that brought him to
the camp on the edge of the mineral-
country, and there he had stuck; his mate,
Micky Boylan, a nuggetty little fossicker
who held one of the leases on the silver-
lead mountain and was gouging for ore.
They had met in a ramshackle pub at the
railhead, and Boylan had told him of the
epic fight he and the other gougers were
making to hold their leases against the
attacks of the big company that was trying
to starve them out. One dawn he had
found himself with Boylan and half a
dozen others, rattling back in a truck over
the shingle and spinifex ridges to the field,
his head aching with too much whisky and
his mind quite uncertain whether he had
been shanghaied on board the truck or
come of his own free will. The only sure
thing was that Boylan wanted a mate, and
that Boylan had taken to him. For four
months they had got along well together,
sharing the cooking, working week about
at gouging the ore from the faces, going
for walks on Sunday down the river-bed
with a gun.
“I’ll give you a half-share if you’ll stick,
Callaway,” Boylan had told him. “That
lease is going to be worth twenty thou-
sand some day. The company’s got to buy
me out; sooner or later; I’m sitting right
between their two best leases and cramp-
ing all their development work.”
But Lew had turned these persuasive
advances aside lightly. He knew this life
on the edge of the spinifex couldn’t hold
him long; sooner or later deep-rooted in-
stincts would urge him back to the ways
he knew. Now, w T ith Dot’s wire in his hand,
the world he had left behind gradually be-
came real to him again. It was painful,
this waking; thoughts that still had power
to hurt crept out of their cover. There was
Lena; what was she doing? He had
arranged to send her money regularly, but
one of the few letters that had followed
him had been from his agent in Brisbane
saying that his draft had been returned
without explanation. Did that mean Lena
had accepted their parting as final? Or
did she merely resent, as his wife, the in-
trusion of a third party into their affairs?
He had felt in those last few days they
had spent in the empty house that they had
nothing more to say to one another, that
she was as anxious for a break as he was;
but you never could tell with a woman!
There was a perversity about Lena that
might make her want to hold him if she
saw that it was his wish to pull free.
Boylan, when he came down from the
mountain, found him still sitting on the
upturned bucket, staring down the sparsely-
timbered slope to the river-bed. His
cheerful, metallic voice roused Lew:
“What’s biting you, Callaway? Not got
a touch of the sun, have you?”
(To be continued next week .)
The Mountain.
Ye puny things that build upon my heights,
Ye tear my rich red breast, ye raise your
towers
No greater than the ants betwixt my trees;
My trees ye fell with axes, crashing down,
Tearing the roping creepers as they fall,
Bruising the foam of yellow blossomed
flowers
Which lit the dull green orchids as a lamp,
Crushing the glossy bird’s-nest ferns, and fain
To sHt the harts’ tongues to a thousand
shreds.
Thus do ye maim and mar my loveliness.
But ye shall pass: ye who with hooting horns
Drown the wild sweetness of the cliillawong,
The lesser note of tiny nesting things
Hanging their woven homes upon a bush.
All this ye do in the loud name of Man,
Who doth believe himself the lord of all.
But ye shall pass and quietly shall lie
In the God’s-acre that ye dug on me,
Hollowing your humble barrows in my heart
That can remember lava rushing down
And huge rocks tost like children’s balls, and
flame
From earth’s rent vitals roaring up to
Heaven.
Yea, ye shall pass ; but I shall be the same.
Where ye destroy my trees I plant again ;
Wherever ye have walked, my earth shall
come
And compass ye at last. My springing ferns
Shall weave a dainty pattern for your graves
Till they be flat as blooms of yesteryear
That loose a springtide fragrance in the dust.
Yet when we come to this last resting-place
Whence ye can no more rise to wield the axe
Or rape my orchids from the eyries set
In chainless air, when you have come to this
Last stillness in the shallow holes men made
For their dead fellows on the mountain
crest,
Well shall ye sleep —I loved ye, after all!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST


s-s
m
mm
by dental research £ V
teeth and foster seri- l•'
ous tooth and gutn disorders.
Under Germ-Laden Film
Decay Begins
You must remove film. Use Pep so
dent twice daily to remove it.
BEING asked to accept a free supply of
Pepsodent tooth paste will be of greatest
interest to you if your teeth decay — if
teeth are stained, discoloured —or if you are
threatened with pyorrhea.
You will be interested, because Pepsodent
tooth paste is made to combat these three con-
ditions more effectively than any other method
known.
Pepsodent removes germs from teeth
Germs cause tooth decay. Germs and tartar
under favourable conditions cause pyorrhea.
Virtually every common disease of teeth and
gums results from germs.
There is but one way known to fight germs
and better safeguard teeth and gums. You must
remove a slippery, stubborn film that glues
bacteria to the tooth’s enamel. This film covers
and protects germs from antiseptics you may use.
It imprisons germs in crevices and clings so
tenaciously that the most vigorous brushing
fails to dislodge it successfully. And your
dentist knows too vigorous brushing brings
harmful results.
The SAFE scientific way. Acts differently
To-day’s dentists are urging patients by the
millions to turn from other ways to the special
film-removing dentifrice called Pepsodent. It
acts in an utterly different way. You will note
that difference the instant it touches your teeth.
First, Pepsodent curdles film and then RE-
MOVES IT SAFELY. No pumice, no harmful
grit or crude abrasive, but a scientific action
that recommends it for the most sensitive teeth
and gums.
FREE—IO-DAY TUBE!
Please write to-day jor a free sample.
THE PEPSODENT CO. (AUST.), LTD.,
BOX 99CC G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W..
Name
Address
I (Bulletin) AL 3394
iPepsodent
BOX 99 CC, G.P.0., SYDNEY
Dr. De JONGH'S
LIGHT BROWM
COD LIVER OIL
is prepared from a blending of the purest
Norwegian Oils, by a process which does not
destroy the vitamins. It is the purest, most
palatable, most easily digested and most
speedily efficacious and has, for upwards
of 80 years, been highly recommended by the
leading medical authorities in the treatment of
Consumption, Diseases of the Throat
and Chest, Chronic Coughs
and Colds, Bronchitis,
Asthma and
*2
mi
'yyj/:
nmasici
mmmh,
11V
Liver Oil can be ob» s.
tained from high-class
Chemists and Stores.
Sole Proprietors:
ANSAR, HARFORD & CO., LTD.
182 GRAY’S INN ROAD, LONDON, W.C. 1
Beware of attempts to substitute Fraudulent Imitations
juirtWHivumn, *1
„ #•*•»•* n*,
(Itfoa NNltimJ7 l V
HI
„|ll lIIU 11111111 ii,,,
III" »ll« IM II ""'Mil
i'" 1 it i"" 11
L i
1
Missing Friends,
Re W. G. BROWN —Deceased.
IF HERBERT CONNOLLY, who married
* Cecilia Brown, will apply to the Public
Trustee, Hobart, he will hear of something
to his advantage.
TAKE NOTICE, DAD.
DEAD this. Loue and Ollie H. married
and gone up north to canefields, near
Cairns. Loue D. married, living Lismore.
Annie at Ungarie, near Victorian border.
Joan living Sydney in Feb., F. working
there. A. with old folk at old place. Joan
still searching for Darby. No word from
D.J.L. Will need order to go there. All
O.K. Pa wants address. Funds will not
allow this.
“THE BARRIER MINER”
is classed A 1 by the highest authori-
ties for quantities circulation, quality
circulation and profitable circulation.
The one and only newspaper read by
everybody west of the Darling.
All the wise men of the East know
the best medium for the West.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE »if, • • V. .. Sd.
Contains everything a woman needs to know
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
W&W26.
London Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.2
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
ZA-Z\
brand
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association C™:
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE


DO YOU WANT TO EARN MORE MONEY?
fdfdn
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut
enter a profession where there is a certainty of employment are advised to
send for our prospectus. Here is one profession where the supply is not
to the demand. NOW is the time to begin. y 1 equal
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereaeh Street, Sydney.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Cuiwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esa.:
P. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm, A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.Q.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bana offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
'S
fdfdnfdn
1
85
LORRIES . . . FEED CUTTERS . . . PETROL ENGINES
RUN BETTER and LAST LONGER WHEN LUBRICATED ivith
ALEM I T E
THE HIGH PRESSURE SYSTEM OF LUBRICATION
AS WE SAID BEFORE
This Page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
NIBBLE AND QUIBBLE.
FIRST PARTY: “That there isn’t a snapper, is it?”
SECOND DITTO: “No. Only a whipper-snapper.”
It was on a Gippsland train. The leaden
mule, which someone in a burst of poetic
frenzy has erroneously christened an iron
horse, was toiling painfully along, and the
cows were keeping ahead to escape the dust.
In a second-class carriage sat a pretty coun-
try damsel with a milk-and-roses complexion,
and a set of teeth as pure as the white-
washed tombstones ;in a country churchyard,
and along with her was her weather-beaten
and stalwart ma. A lean, consumptive dude
newly out from “home,” occupied the oppo-
site seat and worried her with remarks. He
said that—haw —he was surprised a*t the
English aspect of things—the girls, don't
you know —almost as beautiful as anything
in the old country—wea*lly, now —haw—aw
—don’tyerknow—so Engish, yersee. He
offered the same remark six times before he
succeeded in attracting the young lady's
attention; and then he was just beginning
his observation for the seventh time—“ The
girls, don’tyersee”—when she spoke. “Ma,”
she said in a plaintive voice; “why don't
they put it in the cattle-truck along with
its mother?” That was all. It left at the
next station.
There is a boss-eyed Chinaman who runs
a ham-and-beef shop in an up-country town,
and fills in his time by leading a wild life
in the vegetable business. Assisted by a
deputy Chow, he vends the crinkly cabbageo
in the early morning, also the alange and
the stlawbelly in their season, and then all
day he supplies ham and eggs, and at night
he sleeps under the counter. His next
neighbor was, until recently, a Scotch pub-
lican, and the other night the latter gentle-
man came in in an excited condition and
demanded supper. Somehow there came
about a. disagreement between the pair, and
the hotelkeeper went to work and wrecked
the establishment, and left fragments of pig-
tail, ham, fractured eggs and beef visible on
the horizon, while the assaulted shopkeeper
boo-hooed in Chinese seated on the ruins
of the premises. But he gathered himself
up and had a long and artistic revenge.
First he sued the hotelkeeper for the value
of the smash, and added on a bottle of
Chinese medicine, price £3 10s., which he
swore the publican had poured down his
back. Then lie poisoned the publican’s dog,
and nobody ever knew how it was that the
dead dog was found floating in a cask of
beer in the hotel cellar; and at the very
moment when the dripping carcase was
brought upstairs by the tail, a Chinese face
looked in at the bar with an unfathomable
smile, and a hated voice asked mildly: “Pub-
lican-fellow whisky-man, wantee any good
pie?” Then there was a rather nice-looking
Bridget in the hotel kitchen, with whom the
publican had long contemplated matrimony:
bu+ irtet .»«»
made up his mind
i.<» tlm- ~ec an *
eloped with the
vindictive China-
man, and swore to
love and honor liis
yellow carcase for
evermore. There
were great rejoic-
ings at the wed-
ding, and somebody
threw a 200-skunk-
pow e r stinkpot
through the hotel
window and made
the bar smell like
1000 polecats for a
week. The publi-
can sallied out and
captured a Chow,
whom he thought
to be the offender.
“I’ll teach ye to
throw yer foreign
inventions into ma
house, ye miserable
caterwaulin’ vaga-
bone!” he said
sternly; and he
was as good as his
word, for he held
the Asiatic under
the pump and
pumped on him
for a quarter of
an hour. He felt
better . after this,
but his satisfac-
tion died away
next morning when
he found his
horse painted bright green and his new
dog of a sky-blue tint. He washed the
horse and the dog, and offered a reward
for the capture of the wretch who was re-
sponsible, and the very next day the do*
reappeared in startling yellow colors. This
finished him. He felt that the enemy was
too numerous and too persistent, and he
sold out his business and left. A few sym-
patliising friends escorted him to the coach,
and bade him farewell, but the other pas-
sengers struck^ on account of the odor of
that Chinese stinkpot, which still clung to
his clothes, and he liad to get out and walk,
,m, . , , , ~ . , . ~
This tale bears such unmistakable traces
o the solid truth on the face of it that
we have no hesitation whatever in pre-
senting it to our readers, A few months
ago a s barL swallowed a diver in full dress
oft Port Macquarie, and a week after that
he swallowed a cow, and then chased its
can seven miles. La<ter on his sharkship
came round to Barrenjoey and swallowed a
h o r.s e and two
dinghies. Last
Monday he was
rotating in front of
Foley's baths, and
while the crowd
were admiring his
points a copy of that
day’s “Even Ooze,’’
on the first page of
which was printed
“Circulation over
250.000 copies
daily,” blew over in
front of his nose.
The shark merely
smiled sarcastically,
and firmly refused to
swallow that.
It is not every
day that we come
upon a heroine, but
Mrs. Cornelius Mc-
Andrew, of Wallera-
wang (N.S.W.), is
the genuine article
and no mistake. A
cow had been shot,
and 601 b. of beef
was missing, so the
local constable
visited the humble
home of Cornelius
(be it ever so lowly
there’s no place like
home), with a view
to making inquiries.
He was just in time
to see Mrs. Cor-
nelius getting over
the garden wall in a
hurry, and giving
chase lie found that
lady sitting down
admiring the beau-
ties of Nature, bur
he could not find out
at first what she was
sitting upon. She-
seemed, however, to
be in considerable
pain, and tears of anguish rolled down her
cheeks as she told the policeman to leave her
alone to die in her misery. But that officious
individual would not abandon a British
female in distress, and when he had gently
but firmly got her into a standing position he
captured a piece of beef, boiling hot, and
apparently just rescued from the pot. It
is not every woman who would sit on a
scalding, blistering steak that felt as if it
had been cut from the cast-iron cow that
grazes round the lake of fire and brimstone,
and though her husband was fined £3, it
was worth twice the money to be the proud
possessor of such a wife, even though she is
scorched a little.
A revolution in gold-mining affairs is at
hand. A Maryborough (Q.) carpenter was
lately riled by his planes becoming dog-
eared while he was shaving away at a piece
of timber. On looking for the cause he
found the wood was impregnated with fine
gold. The plank, a cedar one, came from
a Gympie tree, and was sent along for
assay. Instead of sinking shafts into the
entrails of the earth the miner of the
future will go aloft in a lift and fossick
about amongst the tops of the blackbutts
and red gums, and the day may yet arrive
when cuttings from gold-bearing trees will be
secured, and every man can sit beneath
the shade of his own bonanza-bearing bush.
The story of the golden apples of the Hes-
perides may not be such a “continental cable-
gram” after all.
Prince Baldwin of Flanders, heir-presump-
tive to the Belgian crown, who died suddenly
a few months ago, has left the usual little
story behind him. The affair was hushed
up at the time, and it was vaguely rumored
that the deceased had gone off through a
dozen different ailments. But it has now
leaked out that he went the way of princes
in general, and died through a joyous spree
and a woman. It was the old, old story—
he thought the husband was out for the
night, and the husband came home, after
all, and pounded madly on the front door.
Then the distracted prince looked out of
the window, and the man below saw him,
and realised the situation, and burst in,
carrying the casement and all the curtains
along with him, and rushed up the stair
to wallop the intruder with the tongs. A
distracted female went into hysterics among
the bric-a-brac on the sideboard, and leaped
and gambolled among the furniture gener-
ally. Then the prince made a frantic effort
to climb down a water-pipe, but half-way
down his plentiful ear got hitched on a
nail, and he liung there howling and pray-
ing, with liis collar burst, and liis hair stand-
ing up, and his hat stove in, and all his
shirt-buttons giving way. The enraged
husband got his gun, and then the lady
leaped in the air with a howl and fell insen-
sible under the grate. Outside, the Lord’s
anointed was making a worse row than
ever, and swinging sadly up and down the
TONSORIAL ARTIST (to little Sympkins, who is very proud of
a very little scrubby moustache) : “I can give you some-
thing to stop that.”
wall. A gun slowly emerged through the
window, and the prince shrieked out to the
holder of it that he would make him a
duke on the spot provided he didn’t shoot.
There was no answer, only the gun came
further out and a staring head came out
after it, and the heir-apparent yelled that
he would make him three dukes—lB dukes —
would give him an estate —would lend him
a harem, if he would—the gun went off just
then, and the billet of heir to the Belgian
crown fell vacant. This is the latest account
of how Baldwin took his departure. We
have added a few interesting details to give
thrill to the situation, but otherwise it is
correct up to the last available advice.
The Cooktown (Q.) “Independent” reports
the discovery of a large English rat in a
case of imported porter. The animal had
eaten all the straw packing and had opened
and drunk seven bottles of liquor. Its
tail was all twisted up through constant
use as a corkscrew.
“But wouldn’t he leave his name?” de-
manded Miss Nellie of the new housemaid.
“Always ask a gentleman to leave his name.”
“So l did, Miss, but I can’t help it if he
won’t. Anyhow, I can soon show you, ’cause
there’s three of his photygraphs in your
album, and another in a plush frame on the
top of the pianner!”
A New York photographer prints a circular
containing eight “Suggestions to Sitters.”
and valuable advice “To the Ladies.” When
a lady, sitting for a picture, would compose
her mouth to a bland and sereire character,
she should, just before entering the room, say
“Bosom,” and keep the expression into which
the mouth subsides until the desired effect
in the camera is evident. If, on the other
hand, she wishes to assume a distinguished
and noble bearing, not suggestive of sweet-
ness, she should say “Brush,” the result of
which is infallible. If she wishes to make
her mouth look small, she must say “Flip,”
but if the mouth be already too small and
needs enlarging she must say “Cabbage.”
If she wishes to look mournful, she must
say “Kerchunk”; if resigned, she must for
cibly ejaculate “Scat.”
A NARROW ESCAPE.
Nellie McFee was tall and slight,
Tall and slight was Nellie McFee;
Her cheeks were red and her eyes were
bright,
Her figure was just what it ought to be;
But somehow it happened that Miss McF’.,
Though fair to see, was uncommonly deaf.
We sat together one dewy eve,
We sat oiitside on a garden seat;
At the rustling touch of her silken sleeve
My pulses throbbed and I felt their beat,
To that lithe form I drew me near,
And told my tale to a heedless ear.
“Nellie,” said I, “by the stars above,
By the stars that shine in Heaven, I vow
That never I knew what ’twas to love
In my life before as I love you now.”
Her silken sleeve by the breeze was stirr’d—
But Nellie McFee didn’t answer a word.
“Nellie,” said I, “have you naught to say—
Naught to say to my ardent vow?
Others may woo in some winsome way—
Would that, a fairy might teach me "how!
Yet these plain words are at least sincere”
(I really imagined the maid could hear).
I squeezed her waist with my strong right arm,
With my strong right arm in a nervous
grip ;
And Nellie looked up in assumed alarm
As I snatched a kiss from her tempting lip ;
Faint heart never yet fair lady won,
So I gave her a dozen before I’d done.
No angry light lit Nell’s brown eyes,
No teardrops dimmed her eyes so brown;
But she whispered low in mild surprise—
“ What were you saying? Please write
it down.”
Then I remembered that Miss McF.,
Though fair to see, was uncommonly deaf.
May Heaven forgive the tale untrue—
The tale untrue I concocted then!
Liars are many and good men few,
And I am not one of the good young men.
Miss Nellie had suddenly lost all charm,
So I wrote : “J remarked it was rather warm.”
Happy the lovers whose vows are heard—
Heard and answered in accents dear;
But all must admit that it’s most absurd
To breathe your love in a deaf girl’s ear.
A cynical moral to end my verse—
There’s many a lover might do much worse.
EDMUND FISHER.


Amusements,
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
■ J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M'g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTYS: MR. CINDERS.
CRITERION: LITTLE ACCIDENT.
(Commencing Saturday).
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE NEW MOON.
(Commencing July 19.)
IV] EW COMEDY THEATRE,
1 4 MELBOURNE.
LEON GORDON in
SCANDAL.
(Commencing July 19.)
UOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
* MELBOURNE.
ALL TALKIE PROGRAMAIE.
THE SHIP FROM SHANGHAI,
With LOUIS WALHEIM and CONRAD NAGEL.
(Conditional Picture.)
ALSO
GEORGE SYDNEY and CHARLIE MURRAY in
THE COHENS AND KELLYS IN
SCOTLAND.
Public Notices.
TO CHRIS. J. TERONE, late of Parkes, N.S.W.
TAKE NOTICE that a suit has been insti-
tuted in the Supreme Court of N.S.W. by your
Partner W. M. STACK for the dissolution of his
partnership with you, and that if you desire to enter
an appearance in the suit you must file such appear-
ance not later than the 15th September next.
Dated this eleventh day of July, 1930.
McINTOSH, EMERTON & THOMAS, Parkes; and at
50 Hunter Street, Sydney.
The Tongkah Harbor Tin Dredging
Company, N.L.
CALL (the 12th) of 1/- (one shilling) per Share
has this day been made on all shares issued in
Registered Office of the Company, A.M.P. Chambers,
this Company, and will be due and payable at the
Elizabeth Street, Hobart, on WEDNESDAY, 13th
August, 1930.
By Order of the Board,
H. J. WISE, Manager.
Hobart, 7th July, 1930.
FOSTER'S FAMOUS FLOWER SEEDS
Produce Flowers for Exhibition.
CARNATION. CHABADD GIANT. Best Carna-
tion from seed.
STOCK. MAMMOTH PYRAMIDAX. Double,
globular flowers, delightful colors.
ANTIRRHINUM. MAJESTIC. The great advance ;
exquisite colors.
1/- packet.
FOSTERS, LTD., Seed Growers, Sydney.
i AlimiA
*4
fW
>
-4
is)
GvO
►
■\Bl
W
Gv3
i
la
r
Is your mirror
• O
warning your
Constipated ? No, you willsay indignantly.
But does your mirror say no, too ? Does it
show a muddy skin, eyes tinged with yellow,
a coated tongue ? If so, nature is warning you
that you are suffering from incomplete elim-
ination. Your system is not entirely ridding
itself of its daily waste. There isaresidue of de-
cay poisoning your bloodstream, sapping your
vitality,spoilingyourenjoymentoflife.Beware
of constipation —and particularly unsuspected
constipation. A glass of Eno’s "Fruit Salt”
every morning gently dismisses the waste
toxins from your system before they hare had
time to be absorbed into your blood. Eno is a
sparkling saline drink, pleasant to take, and
natural and complete in its action. It has been
prescribed by doctors for sixty years as the
onesafeandsimple preventive of constipation
NO'S 'HMJII SMI
c&he words Gno and "&ruit Salt ” are registered trade marks .
Bales JZgents: THE BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE & CO., LTD., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
DIAMOND
POWERFUL
lasting
I C>3
DIAIVIOiy]
60 VOLTS
SILENT
efficient
Where the Best Batteries
Are Built
This well-equipped Factory is producing Batteries which by sheer merit have
won an outstanding reputation all over Australia.
Here you have a striking example of an Australian Industry which has been
given the opportunity and has triumphed for Quality of Product.
IMMQM
3
AND DRY CELLS
(RADIO, BELL, SIGNAL, TELEGRAPH, STARTER, ETC,)
Diamond Batteries and Dry Cells last longer—numerous testimonials from owners of Kadio Sets pay tribute to their extra life and greater economy.
Built under the " Secflion-protedled ” Principle
■ ..C V ,
s
The “Section-protected” Principle is a safeguard against leakage of good current, and is one of the reasons why
last longer. All “Diamond” Batteries are guaranteed by the manufacturers.
Prices of Diamond “A,” “B” and “C” Radio Batteries.
“A” BATTERIES:
DIRECT FACTORY DISTRIBUTORS:
THE HENDON ELECTRICAL COMPANY
GROUND FLOOR, “WHITEHALL,” BANK PLACE, MELBOURNE, Cl. ’PHONE: F 4952.
“Diamonds”
N.S.W. REPRESENTATIVE:
REG. ROSE & COMPANY,
KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
QUEENSLAND REPRESENTATIVE:
J. B. CHANDLER & CO.
45 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE.
o
FO Pi
MOWCARS*Ba£r$
mkt oßS&ft&sfolC}&
!6NrtfflH Mi
is T« M*§
W.McF.


JUarllon
OviNWARI
English Manufacture.
Dainty.......
yet unbreakable
in oven use
Price of
medium size
Round Casserole
12/9
Carlton Ovenware adds
grace to any table; its
design is pleasing and its
utility unquestioned. It
holds the heat far better
than other cooking ware,
and the sunken handles
make for safety and
economy in oven space.
DOES AWAY WITH DISHING-UP.
r
v y
Will not break
with heat or sud-
den chill, and this
is guaranteed!
FREE illustrated leaflet of Casseroles,
Baking and Pudding Dishes, Stew Pots,
etc.. (50 different pieces) from
F. R. BARLOW & SONS PTY., LTD.
328 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Smedley Service.
% ✓
ll
CH
Cigary.
Craig rAitken
Wholesale
Sqdney N.5.W.
KSB
TO
c\9
*«•
«»*
A pictorial
guide to
America
Fascinating this new booklet
illustrated with latest pictures of
San Francisco, New York, Yosemite,
Grand Canyon, Niagara Falls and
other famous places of the United
States. It tells how easy it is to
travel across America when you go
back home. Free to those planning
trips to England. Call or write for
your copy.
* OctAMIC STEAI>f SHlpfo
NATSON LIIME
Dept. Ml 4, 12 Bridge Street,
Sydney. Tele.; B 7981.
SWAN
INK
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
If any illustration in THE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
r
THE LATEST
in
WALLPAPERS
We invite you to inspect shipments of the latest
designs from abroad. Many of them are exclusive,
and include the new tones and designs in
Morene
Imitation Rough Cast,
Modernistic
They are most suitable for modern
homes and flats and the prices are
low. Call in and see them in our
naturally-lighted showrooms.
You can order by post.
NR
wjriau-.
324-330 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
391-403 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
•.ill
tern
7A
Shop by post. We will
send samples and
prices to any address,
city or country. Men-
tion the rooms you
require papers for.
The Spirit.
OSMAR E. WHITE’S
STIRRING STORY OF A STRUGGLE FOR MAS-
TERY BETWEEN THE SKIPPER AND THE SPIRIT OF THE SHIP
HE HATED.
culpable negligence. The evi-
Yv dence of the first officer, Mr. Stark,
disposes the plea that there was an
unsuspected irregularity in the card-com-
pass. Both he and Captain Pederson admit
having made an inspection on the night pre-
vious to the loss of the Spirit and, on check-
ing with the auxiliary compass and by obser-
vation, found that the irregularity was less
than one minute”
The voice of the president of the Court of
Marine Inquiry droned on monotonously. I
folded my papers, bound them about with
pink tape, and shuffled my feet in the legal
manner. We had lost.
Pederson, his heavy face pinched and
pallid, sat motionless, grasping the edge of
the ink-spattered table and staring at the
moving lips of the president as if afraid to
trust his hearing alone. He was hanging
pathetically on every word.
“ Furthermore, that his certificate as
Master Mariner shall be suspended for the
term of three years and that it shall be
endorsed accordingly.”
The voice of the president ceased abruptly.
There was silence for a second; then chairs
squeaked as they were pushed back from
the desks, and the whisper of hushed con-
versation and comment filled the old oak
room with an echoing rustle. The Court rose.
Pederson faced me —looked through and
beyond me.
“Blast her!” he said, eyes staring out of a
wooden face. “She won !”
Mi*. Stark, ruddy face a little paler than
when he had gone into the box three hours
before, overtook me in the street, when I
had left the court-room, and nodded more
pleasantly than I had expected of him.
“Well, sir,” he said gravely, “that’s past
and done with. They broke a fine seaman
to-day. A fine seaman, sir. The old man
thanked you for the fight you put up?”
I shook my head. “Not yet, Mr. Stark,”
I said. “You could hardly expect it. I’m
afraid it is the finish of him.”
We walked on in silence for a few yards.
Then I said, “Stark—man to man—was
there a woman in that affair? Pederson
never breathed a word of it, and, if there
was, he should have told me, of all people.”
Mr. Stark was obviously startled. “A
woman!” he exclaimed. “Why, God bless
me, sir, no! Of course not. What made you
ask that?”
“Oh, nothing,” I said uncomfortably.
“Of course not,” he continued. “Captain
Pederson is very happily married. His wife
is a very fine woman. And there are three
kids. He was going to send the boy to Ger-
many to study under the masters —violin,
you know. The girls are quite up in
society, sir. Very fashionable.”
Mr. Stark shook his grizzled head regret-
fully.
“It is going to be hard for them, Mr. Con-
way—damned hard. They had great plans.
Pederson disgraced for negligence in his
command —he’s out for life. But”—he
turned to me confidentially—“it wasn’t that.
Not negligence, sir. It was something else —
deeper than that.”
“Then why the devil didn’t you give it in
your evidence?” I broke in angrily. “It’s
nothing short of criminal to withhold facts
of a serious nature when a man’s reputa-
tion —his whole future—is at stake. What’s
the idea, Mr. Stark?”
Mr. Stark smiled enigmatically. “Evi-
dence,” he said softly. “Dm! Evidence? No
sir. What was behind the breaking of Cap-
tain Pederson is something that no law
court in the whole world would accept as
evidence. It was the spirit of a-ship!”
Of a sudden I understood the “she.” Of
one accord we halted at the corner and Stark
jerked his head expressively. “Care to?” he
asked, as if to change the subject. He
looked rather shamefaced, I thought—half-
regretful that he had spoken.
When we were comfortably ensconsed by
the. fire —the first southerly of winter had
arrived with whisps of cold, driven rain—l
questioned him more directly.
“Surely,” he said. “I know you were in-
terested in the case and you made the best
of a bad job. But your not being a sailor
makes it a bit hard for me to explain. You’d
probably laugh if I were to say that there’s
more in a ship than her keel and her ribs
and her decks and her plates. Something
that’s in her; something personal; a spirit—
soul, if you like.
“I’ve known ships laid down timber for
timber, rivet for rivet—so alike that you’d
hardly tell ’em apart, lying in anchorage
side by side. Yet one would be a hog. a
man-killer —roll scuppers under a half-gale,
lousy with ineradicable vermin ; and the sea
partners with her to give her dirty weather
on every voyage. The other? As sweet a
craft as ever had blue water under her keel,
steer like a witch and handle well in a
China typhoon—clean. Impossible, you’ll be
saying? But you see, sir, we sailors have
ships as our trade and we know such things
are true. Most of us have the sea bred in
our bones. Onr fathers swear we’ll go into
an office, op be a barrister like yourself, Mr.
Conway. They give us the, education and the
start; but the sea and the ships that sail on
it win in the end. There’s little romance to
the game—and little but hard work and
monotony. Yet what started me was dad’s
old model of the Flying Cloud—a tea-clipper.
In a glass case she was, in the front parlor.
I loved her so much that I ran away from
her to a real ship that was like her and
served under sail till I was twenty-foux-.
“Maybe I’m ignorant. Maybe I’m super-
stitious —not like these modern steamboat
captains who laugh at the old sailor-lore.
But I know this: the Spirit broke Cap’ll
Pederson as sure as if she’d been a thing of
flesh and bones and blood. I’ll tell you
why.
“You know he had the Malaya—the big
passenger-boat that ran up the coast to the
.States and the Philippines. You gave it in
evidence for him. She was a fine vessel and,
to be sure, a gentleman’s life it was aboard
her. I know, because I was second mate
on her —my first billet in steam. Eight
cooks!” Stark laughed whimsically. “And
Pederson, he liked it. Got on fine with the
passengers. Could talk pictures and music
and had a pleasant way with women.
A weaker man might have neglected
his work for the interestin’ people he met
on that boat. But Pederson was a seaman ail
through and he’d rather trust himself than
any other man. So the company thought
well of him.
“He was different in those days, sir—
heavier of the jowl and with a good padding
in front. Always spick and span with his
uniform and nice shave. Those china-blue
eyes of his had a genial twinkle in them and
he was happy. Me being trained under sail,
I used to laugh at him the way he paced
up and down the promenade deck with the
saloon passengers, grave and amiable as you
like, with a neat one-two-tliree turn of his
feet at the after-rail. His wife came a trip
or two with him—which shows how much
the company thought of their crack captain.
And she was a mighty stylish woman—
the sort of woman you’d like to have looking
after your kids if you had big ideas for them.
He admired her a lot; but I think he was
just a bit afraid because of those big ideas
Still his pay was £60 a month, and he him-
self lived frugally.
He was working up to a big job ashore —
company super, most likely—when the crash
came. For two years the Blue Crescent
people had been chopping fares and freights
in opposition to us; and of a sudden the
shareholders got scared. The company sold
their three big passenger boats into the
Atlantic service and Pederson would have
gone / with the Malaya if the City of George-
town hadn’t been smashed up off Trinidad in
a hurricane a*ud her commander transferred.
"I was in the cabin with Pederson when
lie got the cable cancelling the appointment.
1 ne man was stricken, downright, with fear •
and I saw him thinking of those kids of his
—the boy who was going to Germany and
the girls who had to be dressed and their
Ladies’ College fees paid.
“They were sorry for him in the office.
1 liey said so and they did their best. They
gave lnm the Spirit, 3000 tons and twenty
years old—thirty quid a month and a bonus
on freights.
“I had joined her six months beforehand
and considered myself mighty lucky to get
a berth, for the ’24 shipping slump had just
about reached bedrock. The Spirit was the
best ship I had ever sailed in, passenger
boats included. No, she wasn’t pretty—old
rakish, riist-streaked and slow in a sea’
But she was comfortable. You being a
landsman can’t quite understand what I
mean. A comfortable ship is more than a
ship that’s clean and dry—more than good
cooking and deck space. A comfortable ship
is, somehow, a ship that you instinctively
depend on—easy to handle, that doesn't
twist and slip sideways in a following sea,
that strains on her course in a current and
gives you fair warning; gives you a sense
-having your feet on something solid and
reliable—way out on the Pacific with only
the purple of the horizon around you and an
albatross or two following after.
“Pederson joined the Spirit at Thursday,
lie came up on a Dutch mailboat, lights
flaring from her portholes, band playing,
and her skipper pacing the deck with a pas-
senger, with a neat one-two-three turn of
his feet at the after-rail. It was all gall and
wormwood to him—dregs.
“So he came up the jacob’s-ladder aboard,
hands streaked with the rust of her plates.
And all the time he looked at the big liner
lying bright with a hundred lights at her
anchorage.
“ ‘Good night, Stark,’ he says to me; ‘I’m
,• I oure ilere > anyway. Where’s my
cabin?’ J
“I showed him. His eyes looked bitterly
at the brown-painted bunk and the little,
clingy table-lamp* the cracked thick cup
where the steward had set him out a drop
of ( hot coffee.
“ ‘Well.’ lie said harshly, ‘so this is my
new command, eh? A good ship, Stark?’
A good ship, sir,’ I said.
“ ‘Fast?’
Not exactly. She does her 10 knots
now, though she hit 17 in her day. She’s
a bit old, maybe.’
“He laughed, but there was no mirth in
his voice.
“ ‘Not exactly. A bit old. Um. We’ll see
A comfortable ship, Stark ?’
ship ye ’ Sir ’ 5 1 SaiCl ’ <Surely a comfortable
“He leaned across the table to me face
close to mine and his breath stank of drink
A comfortable ship, eh, mister?’ he
snarled. ‘A tub fit for the breakers, eh ?
My God, you’re a* liar! I saw her cornin''
in. I knew her the second I laid eyes on
her—with her factory funnel and her smuttv
mucky, tarry spars!’
“He spat at the wall and I saw a big
splash of bloodstained saliva trickle down
the dingy paint. He had bitten his lips
until the blood came. The man was drunk
with, gin and rage. I turned to go.
“ ‘Mr. Stark!’ lie barked at me.
“ ‘Yes, sir?’ I said.
t « £ bit slow Realise her keel’s rotten,
eh? Got to spare her years, eh?’
“ ‘Yes, sir.’
‘She won’t be —d’you hear me! I’ll drive
the guts out of this tub! I’ll drive
her until she falls to bits in little chunks
of rotten scrap-iron! I’ll drive her until
. .. .until
“I honestly believe that I saw foam on his
lips.
“Drunk or not when he made that threat,
Pederson drove her. He drove her as I’ve
never seen an old ship driven before, even
(Continued on next page.)


I
%
m
\ fa
"■Every picture
Zells a Story *
Comfort Old Age
by keeping the kidneys active
MUCH CAN BE DONE to comfort old people, for
backache, urinary disorders, sciatica, lumbago,
rheumatism, gravel and inflammation of the bladder are
too often suffered unnecessarily. The kidneys, prob~
ably, are the weak spot. They need the special
strengthening help of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
This kidney stimulant makes the kidneys active; it
strengthens them and helps them keep the blood pure,
thereby preventing, as well as relieving, the symptoms of kidney disorder. Don t run serious risks! No
matter what your age may be, an occasional course of Doan’s Pills will prove helpful. Doan’s act on the
kidneys; they do not affect the liver, the stomach or the bowels.
INTERESTING SYDNEY EVIDENCE.
A WOMAN’S CASE.
Mrs. Pullbrook, sen., 2B Egar Street,' Redfern, Sydney, says : ,“For
six or seven years I was troubled with weak, and disordered
The chief symptom was backache,' and the pain I suffered was. aw.tiu.
When I stooped the agony in standing up again was almost unbearable,
and I often had to get someone to help me. Nothing I took seemed to
relieve the pain, and I used to wonder if Ishould ever he well a S air h
One day I was urged by a friend to try Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills,
and it was a real friend’s advice,' for a few bottles completely cured me.
My experience proves that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are a genuine
remedy, and I sincerely trust that other sufferers will benefit by my
experience and take these splendid Pills.” "
Sixteen years later Mrs. Pullbrook says : I am still a_ great bel eve _
in Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and would not like to be without
them. They are invaluable to the kidney sufferer.
A MAN’S CASE.
Mr. B. Preston, “Elsinor,” Park Road, Mascot, Sydney, says: “In
consequence of a cold settling on my kidneys I was almost crippled with
backache. My back ached terribly, and every movement seemed to
make the pain more acute. My rest at night was disturbed, no position
being comfortable for long, ,and during the day I was tired and weary.
The kidney secretions wei’e disordered, being thick and cloudy. My wife,
who had taken Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills some time previously with
very beneficial results, advised me to give the remedy a trial. I acted
on her advice, and am very glad I did, for three bottles of the pills
cured me completely. I feel splendid now, and have only Doan’s Pills
to thank for my freedom from backache and kidney trouble.”
Four years later Mr. Preston says: “I am still well, and have not
been troubled with my kidneys since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
cured me.”
fdnfdn
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills are sold by all
Chemists and Storekeepers.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors, 15 Hamilton
Street, Sydney.
iii tlie war-time; and I pray God I'll never
see a ship driven again. She was well found
and her engines a*s good as the day they
were laid down. But when a ship’s buffeted
about the seven seas for quarter of a
century, it tears her apart to give her a full
head of steam in. a heavy sea*. She races
herself to pieces. The Spirit would have
lasted many a year on smooth passages with
good handling, but Pederson hated her. And
by Heaven, sir, you may or may not believe
it, but that ship knew he hated her!
“In four days ive’d finished her lading of
copra for Sydney. For four days, dawn to
dark, the old man yelped at the sweating
mates and stevedores from the bridge—
yelped until our nerves were frayed to
ragged edges arid w T e hated him almost a<s
much as he hated the ship. Then a whining
nor-’w T ester came in from the Timor, and
while even the B.P. boat delayed her sailing
half a day, he drove out into the white,
shrieking smother, jambed the engine-room
telegraph hard over the full speed and kept
it there, though every second wave lifted
her stern high out of the water and plunged
her bows into a cascade of green seas. She
groaned and squeaked in every plate, sir—
sobbed like a kid in protest; but she fought
back at the seas. Gale after gale followed
us down the coast, and Pederson drove
through. To a man the grimy gang signed
off when we reached Sydney—but we’d
reached there in eight days. Signed off to
a man. You see, the grimy gang’s the first
to go if a ship rips her bottom out on a reef
at full speed. Besides, they swore that she’d
fall apart like a pack of cards after a dozen
more trips.
* “At the office they were flabbergasted—
ramping mad. They sent for Pederson and
had him on the mat. When he returned to
the ship, he grinned in a smug, self-satisfied
way and told me that they were a lot of
blasted old women, but he’d convinced 'them
he knew what a ship could stand without
straining herself and that he was not going
to risk his job and his ticket. ■ - *
“Well, quick; voyages mean profitable
freights—-and quick voyages he made. I
don’t doubt that lie almost touched liis £6O
a month with bonuses. For two trips the
old Spirit had fine weather and he drove her
just as fast as he could threaten or cajole
the chief engineer to keep extra pressure
of steam in her boilers. On the sixth trip
after filthy weather, which delayed him.
hardly a day, even the owners doubted the
assurance of their crack skipper, though the
well was dry and the bedding plates firm.
They la*id her up for survey. The report
was that she was sound and staunch in
every plate, with no sign of strain alow or
aloft! They patted Pederson on the back
and swore then that he was a* sound man,
and that the other skippers and the marine
super, had been a pack of damned fools.
The Spirit was making more money for
them. How, they didn’t give a curse.
“I shipped aboard her only because I
could find no other billet, and I had my
wife and kiddies to consider; for there were
subtle changes. She was a comfortable ship
no longer. Although the food was better
than on most freighters, older hands avoided
signing on aboard her if they could, and she
was manned mostly by young men. Voyage
by voyage she began to get a bad name —
the worst name you can give a ship. Unlucky.
Just that.
“Accidents happened. Little things you’d
say ‘Coincidence’ to, and shrug your shoul-
ders. The bos’n tripped down the after-
companion in a flat calm and smashed his
skull. Three stokers badly burned in a
blow-back .'from the' furnaces—a thing that
may happen in any coal-fired ship. A man
overboard when a gale had practically
abated, washed off the forepeak by a freak
wave. There was hardly a trip that the
Spirit did not take a life in compensation
for her merciless driving; and took them in
unexpected ways so that no one could blame
the Old Man.
“More than merely this —she began to
steer wildly in a sea, no longer sensitive to
the wheel as she had been in the old days;
developed a sickening lurch and twist when
the full force of the weather caught her on
the beam —‘sowed’ on the waves and shipped
greep water all the time until she lay, a
sodden, rebellious thing, in the trough.
“But she paid handsomely—paid as she
never paid before, despite her rapidly-
depleted bunkers. The old man proved that
his first smashing voyage south had been
no flash-in-the-pan, proved to the company by
sheer, mulish defiance of their protests that
quick voyages more than compensated for
fast-burned coal. They began to find him
rush freights, to be delivered at a certain
date. He delivered them. They were proud
of his unerring judgment, his clean ship—
for, should a day be calm, he had every man-
jack of both watches at the paint-pots.
They swore that the Spirit was a freak
ship—a flier by accident —and he‘was the
man to command her.
“I said that they were proud of his un-
erring judgment. His'judgment. teas- unerring.
After the anger that had gripped him on
the first voyage he stopped short at caution’s
very limit. A gale could slow him down
when it was at its height; but once the
seas had abated their fury one whit, he
smashed her through them ruthlessly._ Un-
slowed by one knot, he charged the trickiest
channels in the northern seas. It was only
his consummate confidence and his know-
ledge of those narrow waters —his sheer
determined energy and refusal to trust any
man but himself —-that saved him piling her
up in the first six months, and he cut his
times to the minimum.
“He was tireless. Voyage after voyage
of bad weather followed in succession. How
the old ship held together under her ground-
battering I can’t tell. But hold she did.
Nor did she leak.
“Once in the Coral Sea, with a cargo of
perishable stores for Samarai —bad ballast—
a quick-moving cyclone hit us. I remember
the night it came, sir, when we were in
the lee of the Kobai reefs. All the sea was
a dirty-lead grey and oily to the very crests
of the waves. And the sunset was ruddy
copper, flaming as if all the ocean to the
west was afire and roaring to Heaven. The
old man and I were on the bridge, waiting,
for the glass was pumping up and down
half an inch at a time. There was not a
breath of wind—not enough even to give
the fires a draught. The stokehold was hell
itself, and the gang toiling, stark-naked at
the bars, fainting man after man with the
furnace fumes and the blinding heat. We
made a bare five knots, so that the storm
caught us in the channels. It came out of
the sunset as a little black cloud which grew
and spread dark tentacles over the sky, blot-
ting out the first pale stars of night; a fore-
runner of a wind that changed from a
faint moaning in the cordage aloft to the
whine of a million devils. The seas leapt
up and lashed us with rent waves, until the
old Spirit lay low in the water like a
beaten thing and drove' steadily before the
blows of the sea to landward. Every inch
Pederson fought her, himself in the canvas
wheel-house for six hours on end, easing her
stubborn hull to the seas, though she played
every bitch’s trick she knew and rebelled
sullenly. The gale and the ship won; but
it was Pederson who beat , the reef by a
cable’s length. He put her about in the
last trough, laid her over on her very beam
ends and hurtled her, screw-racing, straight,
it seemed, for the roar, of , the breakers in
the darkness. It was an eternity waiting
for lier to strike—expecting it. But the
grind never came.
“The old man gripped my arm and yelled
to me in the darkness as he coaxed her head
back to the wind, ‘Sanderson’s Channel!
I had my eye on it at sunset. It’d take a
worse scow 1 than this to break me,
d’ye hear, Stark? You and me, we’ll live
to drive her guts out yet!’
“It was the only reference I ever heard
him make to the Spirit’s rebellion in his
hands —her hatred of him.
“Yes, sir, I ‘ see what you’re thinking.
I’m Irish and a sailor; I’d believe in fairies
and hobgoblins. You’re thinking that this
constant driving had thrown her hull a frac-
tion of an inch out of alignment and de-
stroyed her balance in the water. Maybe
you’re right. There’s many a man sailed
under steam who’d say you were right, too.
But I served under sail, sir, and something
in me that I feel about ships tells me that
you’re wrong. Wait.
“There was no man of our afterguard who
believed that Pederson could become hard-
ened to the strain which that ship laid upon
him, nor to the strain which he laid upon
himself by charging narrow channels under
forced draught, skirting the maze of sharp,
submerged reefs, where one touch would rip
half her bottom out. Some trips he was
16. or 17 hours together on the bridge, day
after day. lie lost weight and the power
to laugh, but he hardened until it seemed
that no .strain on earth could break him.
He made money. The owners were satisfied.
“Then the luck of the ship changed. Run
after run there was of perfect weather —
360-mile runs, regular as clockwork —with
never a blow, that would capsize a fishing-
boat. Fair, weather all through the cyclone
season. The old Spirit seemed to have for-
gotten her, ill-luck and her ill-disposition,
sailed sweet as a witch, steadied in choppy
seas —gave her best. The old- man grinned
to himself a lot as he drove her —just as
bitter as ever, just as keen on knocking out
his freights and his bonuses.
“What came of it you know. Cargo of
sandalwood and shell from Broome. We
sailed under blue skies and in a sea that
rippled like watered silk under the fresh,
steady breeze. Never have I seen such sweet
weather, sir. Yet why did the second break
his leg on the engine-room grating? Bad
luck? Perhaps. Why did Pederson give
the bridge to the senior apprentice on as
fine an evening as I have ever seen in those
latitudes? An error of judgment? Sureiy
not. Laziness? Even those ravening
Admiralty sharks couldn’t call him lazy, sir.
Why. did I see that uneasy swinging of the
compass-card in the afternoon watch and
report it to the Old Man? Why was ii
steady as a rock, sir, when we checked it
by observation? Why, above all, should
she smash into a clear-charted rock on tlie
Old Man’s course when he’s, the best seaman
in the tropic seas? Miscalculation? No.
I checked the noon observation and the cal-
dilation myself. I said so at the inquiry,
and the old president looked ‘liar’ at me out
of those snibbery blue eyes of his.
“It was something we sailors know of,
sir, but no man can fathom. It’s there in
all ships, sir, that sail the seas. It always
will be there. The Spirit hated Pederson
as lie hated her. She broke him.
“For the ship’s the mistress and her
master her servant in the long run—always.”
’ There was a light of gravity in Mr.
Stark’s eyes which stilled my light comment.
Superstitious rot? Yes. I have never been
to sea.
Sunset Thoughts.
Green leaves above me that dance and sway,
And under me bracken brown,
q u a mountain spur at the end of day
j» m wa tching the sun go down,
charmed by the peace and quietude
Down-dropping from ridge and glen,
A (>a ] m m j no that I’ve long pursued
In va j n j n the haunts of men.
Afar from t k e hurry of foot and wheel,
Alone i n this hour of grace,
something the trees about me feel
j fee j t ki s sylvan place,
kueing the ranges with colors rare,
Kich Ughts from the sunset fall,
T 1) (. oall of a ] yre -bird on the air
Seems more than a lyre-bird’s call,
The bellbirds, too, in the twilight grey-
Of deep-down alleys and dells,
Xo bellbirds tinkling at eve seem they,
But fairyfolk ringing their bells.
This, this I say, and I say to all,
Though cynics and such may smile,
Because a wizard holds me in thrall
I’m lost to the world awhile,
And yet though apart from the world of men
I muse for a gracious space
I must go back to that world again,
I or there is my bidiug-piace.
* UnSet
grey
And pink of a w ild ga ah.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


11^'
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
of Australasia, Ltd.,
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Victorian Office—“Chancerv House/’ 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LI !>., Adelaide, S.A.
“THE AGE”
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
Established 185J/<
ADVERTISERS!
The Court instructs every Jury to keep an
open mind, and record a verdict according to
the evidence placed before them.
When considering future allocations for Vic-
toria, weigh the following evidence for “The
■' Age.”:
Audited net Sales 122,501 daily *
(60% Metropolitan—4o% Country).
Over 96%. of distribution home
delivered to subscribers.
Over 95% of home deliveries remain
in the household for reading during
the day.
And over 1,000,000 advertisements
are published in its columns annually.
“The Age’s” dominant note is “Australia
First,” and its effect on the minds .of
readers and power for good to the Common-
wealth are incalculable,
Further information and rates on application
to the principal Service Agents in all States,
or
DAVID SYME & CO.»
233 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
47 Fleet Street, London.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Heading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture,
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
"The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
Che mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
(Established 1854)
The "Mercury” is the only Metro-
politan Newspaper in the State.
Its news services, articles, typo-
graphy are unexcelled in Australia.
THE “MERCURY” COVERS
TASMANIA.
And its circulation exceeds the
combined figures of the dailies in
Tasmania. Delivered by fast motor-
cars, it reaches Launceston (121
miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before break-
fast.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F, L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
tfte fldwrtiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
U nparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price ljd.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney, Telephone,’ 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
Q. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald’’ Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Experimenting!
How much a year do
you waste in unneces-
sary experiments?
Cut waste and
advertise with a
“Result Bringer.”
“The
Telegraph ”
((Brisbane)
Has proved itself over
58 years a good “Result
Bringer” for all adver-
tisers.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co., Ltd,
Queen and Elizabeth Streets.
Brisbane, Queensland!
Sydney Representative:
N. L. ROBERTS,
Country Press Co-op. Co. of Aust., Ltd.,
Barrack Street, Sydney.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
WfwtcM id not
wit with diaedtm
toko
foodotf
AA^— a
tw
Worth a
Guinea
a Box.
lT
UH
Sfe
SPS 2 *
s
S
%
&
$
Full information.
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same day of publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
'-> ’ - ■■ ■ x
copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner“ Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express-” obtainable from,;
W. K. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd
73-75 Patterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
426 National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
726 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper*
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6,3, months from
/or. which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
Australia—l2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
0\
<k
0°
w'°% 6) '
*•0 c s® 1
- ,»°
# B '
.•‘*.• • ‘ . • * ‘
*>>&* *


The WAR ATAH FENCE
“HINGED JOINT”
SOLVES SETTLERS’ PROBLEMS.
IT IS
FIRE PROOF, RUST PROOF, WHITE-ANT ; PROOF,
CATTLE PROOF, SHEEP PROOF, PIG PROOF
ERECTION COSTS ARE LOW—MAINTENANCE COSTS ARE NIL.
MADE IN THREE TYPES, VIZ.:
SPECIAL HEAVY.
Medium-temper Steel Wire.
Heavily Galvanised.
TYEASY HIGH TENSILE.
High Carbon Steel. Light, Cheap and Strong.
Heavily Galvanised.
STANDARD.
Medium-temper Steel.
Heavily Galvanised.
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
“7 iM \ h
• V- ,> v
" •*'.* ’•:
*| & ;
*f£ iwlfc*-'** s
•" < «t
IT * r| -.-i.:i.i *
m
r
| if
"Waratah” (hinged, jointed) Fencing is an improved design of Woven Fence, selected, after world-wideinvestigation, as
the type best suited to Australian condition*. Pickets cannot become Detached, Loosened or Displaced. Its bpecia* Uesign
renders it Flexible. It withstands Changes in Temperature, without Breaking, and is Frost-proof. Made in 10, 12 and
gauge Galvanised Patented Wire.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
FOR AUSTRALIANS
ill IJj-LL
NO
WEDGES
Sr
OR
TIES
ox
w
4
O
S'
K*
55
:
i]
o
A
«r
%
o
■x
t
</•
HI
WILL NOT BURN.
If you use Waratah B.H.P. Star Steel Posts you need never fear bushfires.
Waratah Posts will not burn. The posts, being star-shaped, are extraordinarily
rigid. It is almost impossible to bend them. They are a sure protection against
With Waratah Steel Posts you should use WARATAH FENCING IVIRE. The
finest Fencing Wire made in any part of the world —will stand the severest
straining test- —always even and reliable. Look for the “Waratah disc on eveiy coil.
WARATAH WIRE NETTING, made in Australia, from Australian materials—
guaranteed even, regular and reliable —rolls out flat.
Made at Newcastle, N.S.W., from finest “8.H.P.” SteeL
oAifanufaclured J3y
RYLANDS BROS.(AUST.) LIMITED
M El W CASTLE
200 STEEL POSTS or 20 WOOD
POSTS PER
PER. DAY
Ji
.SlM*'"'/" t
/a /'*V^—
Va
UdM/h2y
;S; v uuc-6e*t? 7
WMZ
WARAJAH BHP STAR STEEL POSTS I
A sure protection against White Ants and r>atnp-rot. Can be
hardest ground. These posts are extra t rdinarily rigid, and,
give equal strength in every direction. A iso always ask for-
easily driven in the
, being star-shaped,
WARATAH FENCING WIRE.
The World’s finest wire—will
stand the severest straining tests.
WARATAH WIRE NETTING
Guaranteed even and reliable.
Runs out flat.
ixnect By
RYLANDS BRDS.fAUST.) LTD.NEWCASTLE.
ALL OF ABOVE ARE MANUFACTURED BY
RYLANDS BROS. (AUS.) LTD., NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
AND AT 422 LITTLE COLUNS STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
JL *%V/*l* * A 1U A A* '—
B.H.P. NEWCASTLE STEEL
