

ft*
v .)'■ 1 V l- .*■ 'i&sts&'-jfri
<Sa3SS»-
9*
rf'Q.
f*£3
re>.
®S3a»
-•'•->
f-W
W 3
*»3T
:.• ts
m
i> : -
\.v*
as
&i£il
Vi
..vTV*P>*.f^
„ J 7?: •. - •• • v >**.;
■
sdfd
CkO
sgs
*
Born 1820-
Still going Strong
JOHNNIE WALKER
WHISKY
JOHN WALKER SC SONS LTD., SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, LONDON and KILMARNOCK.
The Bulletin
Oi'itw %juhs in, Vage, 8
Vol. 51.—N0. 2610.
Wednesday, February 19, 1930.
Price 6d.
Kegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


VV/RITE for the Library Catalogue and
” terms, and lists on all subjects, which
will be forwarded post free on, application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
STORIES THAT GRIP
BRING BIG PRICES!
One STOTT Student recently wrote: “ gave
me £7/18/- for a story under 4000 words.” An-
other was paid £4/18/6; another £4/7/- (1500
words). If YOU have thoughts, turn them into
cash. Send this Coupon for FREE Brochure,
“Successful Authorship,”
To STOTT’S Correspondence College,
100 Russell-street, Melbourne.
My Name
My Address
s,b. 308
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
%>
HW 3
FOR HIS BIRTHDAY FOR HIS ANNIVERSARY
For husband, brother son or friend.
THE IDEAL GIFT FOR A MAN IS A
ROLLS RAZOR
THE BRITISH ONE-BLADE SAFETY
THE BEST RAZOR IN THE WORLD.
The 1930 Imperial Model Rolls Razor is a triumph of skilled workmanship.
It will last a lifetime, and will save its owner the cost of hundreds of wafer
blades. Price, 35/- to £5.
Obtainable at all our great emporiums, all high-class stores, chemists, hardware merchants and
tobacconists throughout Australia. Write for Illustrated catalogue.
THE ROLLS RAZOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA,
MENDES CHAMBERS, 8a CASTLEREAOH STREET, SYDNEY.
m
m
m
‘My
strength
is
as the
strength
of
Ten’
At the left is a fine photo , of
Charles Morton, “Fox” Player,
one of the finest athletic figures
m the screen to-day.
Youth and Courage! The thrill of rippling muscles:
the fearless glance of clear, clean eyes! Whence come
these thingsf From whisky, aspirins? Ah, no!
From that bright-and-early feeling that sends one
rushing to the surf; from the tingle of ice-cool water
on a manly skin ; from a man’s way of getting rid
of a man’s troubles— Cream of Yeast! The bravest
may get a headache, and, wisely relieve it with
Cream of Yeast; the noblest may, at times, feel a
trifle off the mark; and soon get on again by taking
Cream of Yeast. Cream of Yeast is Life! It makes
you feel Better and Brighter in a few minutes; it
relieves “bad nerves” ; sleeplessness; heart-flutter due
to excessive smoking or drink and food that dis-
agrees; colds; aches and pains. Try if....now. All
chemists, 24 Tablets, 1/11, 48 for 3/6, 125 for 5/9.
Be sure you get genuine “Cream of Yeast”—the kind
famous people take.
Gives You that
* Bright-&:-Early-Feeling 9 !
Amalgamated Laboratories, Kembla Building, Sydney; and all Chemists.
If any illustration in “THE
BULLETIN ” takes your fancy
Write to the MAN ACER, who will
quote you price for the original .
Ym\
0-9
6b
.* ,*• ‘
V
7
-X
MJSTDIE
Sold Everywhere.
PRICE !/-
IT
m
A*
v*
S 3 Hi STIIM
The Red Page
A Demand for a Dragon
If this should meet the eye of Edmund
Blunden, of Tokyo, gentleman, he is
earnestly solicited to send the undersigned
a pedigree dragon. That seems light enough
compensation from anybody who has made
one break his only New Year’s resolution.
On December 31 1 said, in Robert Graves’s
classic phrase, “Good-bye to all that”—mean-
ing war, or, rather, library war. Then, in the
Roycroft, I picked up “Undertones of War”
(Cobden-Sanderson). I turned over a page
or two, deliciously complacent. Alas, a
word glared out of the page in the manner
of its kind. No war book is genuine with-
out such a word. And, having allowed‘two
mates over whom I was doing guard to
have a smoke in one of those resorts in
Mena, and having been put under arrest
for it by a man who subsequently squibbed
Gallipoli, I have a peculiar interest in such
places. I read the sentence. Amazingly,
Blunden’s reference was gentlemanly to the
point of being delicate! Here, I sighed,
is something different. I took the book
and read it. It is, the most admirable war
I have read.
is throughout the work of one who is
e same time a writer and a gentleman,
s wonderful breadth; grand good-humor,
den went to war nervously; had the
gth to rise above it; and is still above
de was an infantry officer, and he saw
itely more war than any other of the
mg war writers gives evidence of having
There is one picture of a Scottie
ding in a field of dead that is more
aorable, more true than all the entrails-
-snivel of the others. “Death could not
d like that.” But Death could and did.
re is a bomb thrown which lands under
erman’s chin, and he looks down to see
t it is. In my humble opinion, that
is writing. It freezes the blood, and it
freezes all the colder because it breaks in
in the midst of manly warmth. Blunden
makes no attempt to convince the unsophis-
ticated into the belief that the war was all
war. There are quiet sectors; there is
behind-the-lines; there are the soldier songs;
there is a cherry orchard; there is lying in
self-sown wheat with a book. Not that
he softens war. His horrors are horrors.
More, they are true horrors. But he takes
the whole of war, and thus gives to his
work a breadth that I have found in no
other war book except “The Case of Ser-
geant Grischa.”
Having been bitten, I went back for
another mouthful of hair, and at the same
address secured “Good-bye to All That,” by
Robert Graves (Cape); “A Farewell to
Arms,” by Ernest Hemingway (Cape); and
“Death of a Hero,” by Richard Adlington
(Chatto and Windus). Of the three, Hem-
ingway’s is considerably the best. That
judgment, however, may not be as disinter-
ested as it ought to be. I owe something
to Hemingway. It was a review of mine of
his book of alleged short stories, “In Our
Time,” that introduced me to the Red Page.
I thought “In Our Time” was vile, but that
is nothing to what I now think it. The
most arresting thing about “Farewell to
Arms” is the improvement in Hemingway.
From this sort of thing,
Mrs. Elliot was sick. She was sick and when she
was sick she was sick as Southern women are sick,
he has come to writing with a beauty of
expression that it would be difficult to over-
praise. From the crudest efforts in narra-
tive he has come to writing narrative of
the first class.
The Graves treatise holds the alleged
“insult to Australians” that a few mis-
guided souls have been howling about.
All that silly fuss is merely so much
evidence of the hop-step-and-a-jump
manner of reading. I know plenty of Aus-
tralians who could substantiate his in-
stances of atrocities to prisoners. On the
other hand, they could prove, as, indeed,
Graves concedes, that' such crimes were not
peculiar to any nationality. That is the
stupidity of all this yelling. Graves does
not single out the Australians alone. The
prime stupidity of the thing is, however, the
fact that the screechers seem to have over-
looked Graves’s covering sentence: “How
far this reputation for atrocities was de-
served, and how far it was due to the over-
seas habit of bragging and leg-pulling, we
could not decide.” What could be more
decent than that? Another thing that
most of them have overlooked is that this
autobiography is probably the dullest war
book to date. Moreover, it is a subtle plagi-
arism, from its title to its end.
Yet, in spite of that; in spite of the
insincerity, the pitiable aping of Remarque,
Graves has earnestly tried to express him-
self. You can see throughout that there is
something in him that he would be better
to have out of him. Despite his brazen
inclusion of “money” among his first-sen-
tence reasons for having written the book,
you can see Graves behind it all. rugged,
broken-nosed, a sensitive prizefighter who
has been battered out of wind, hitting out
blindly to try to get even with what has
hurt him. The heart is good, but the brain
will not respond, and the result is attempt
without achievement.
The other book, Adlington’s, is a master-
piece of sickness. It is as nasty a book as I
have read for years. It is not a war book
in the ordinary sense, and what war there
is in it is not impressively credible. But
anyone who can overcome an aversion to
the company of bounders and get through
to the book’s third part will find compen-
sation there. It gets to heights of rather
good fiction. I am astonished to hear that
it is “not going very well.” It has, I
should have thought, enough bounderish
suggestiveness in it to ensure a remuner-
ative success. Further, it has humor, and
its sportin’ people are visible.
And now I look back to poor Graves’s
book And I would, like that dragon,
Mr. Blunden.
CECIL MANN
Do Our Poets Turn Novelists?
It was startling to read James Devaney’s
remark (R.P. 15/1/’3O) that most of our
poets have forsaken the Muse of poetry
and turned novelists as the years went by.
It can only be supposed that the writer
himself had a feeling of guilt, for his book
of poems, “Fabian,” has for years been sub-
merged by his prose; or perhaps the un-
usual literary history of Arthur Adams had
first place in his mind. Bernard O’Dowd
has published seven volumes of verse; no
prose except a single literary lecture. Hugh
McCrae can write, and can speak; a mas-
terly type of prose, compact, jewelled, care-
fully free; but not even his rich book of
“Du Poissey Anecdotes” could be called a
novel. The brief, lovely, hard-won lyrics
of Shaw Neilson have not been accompanied
by any prose. Chris Brennan, whose poems
have been too long out of print and whose
successors we demand in vain, has often
written literary notes that were as power-
ful as they were learned, but they have
not appeared in a book, and they were in
no sense fiction. Fumley Maurice has pub-
lished a single book of essays called
“Romance,” but his books of verse, up to
the present one, “The Gully,” number seven
or eight, and he has not written a novel.
H. M. Green in his “Book of Beauty” has
written in poetry as much of a “story” as
another man might express in the medium
of prose; but he is all the more unlikely
to write a novel. So it goes on.
The temptation to write a serious novel
in Australia has not been very strong; not
so strong as to hrge a man to attempt a
novel unless he had the narrative faculty,
a special thing in itself. So much the
better ! Look what happens when H. M.
Tomlinson, the superb writer of travel
impressions, is persuaded to write a novel
and produces his least convincing book,
“Gallion’s Reach.” Look what happens
when W. H. Davies turns from his dewy
lyrics and forthright reminiscences of a
“sturdy beggar”: he writes a novel that he
himself is the first and the most persistent
in decrying. On the whole, poets are likely
to write poetry better than fiction. At any
rate they are hardly likely to write both
well at the same period of their lives.
While James Devaney is speaking of
Queensland writers—granting for the
moment that there are Queensland writers
and Tasmanian writers and not merely Aus-
tralian writers—it seems opportune to ask
how many Queenslanders know their very
significant poet, William Baylebridge
(“Blocksidge”). A recent anthology of Aus-
tralian verse, compiled in Queensland,
omitted his work altogether. The balance
of poetry and prose in his output is a
curious matter; his poems have been solid
and continuous, and he has known how to
make poetry out of intractable material,
using even phrases from contracts in law
and transmuting them. His stories are as
individual as another man’s lyrics: he has
style all through. He is not a case for
either proving or contradicting the thesis
that our poets turn novelists. We feel he
has a ton of treasure concealed somewhere
and that, whatever may next emerge from
it, we shall see something quite outside any
prediction we may make.
If someone says that there is a converse
proposition, and that some of our novelists
may “drop into poetry in a friendly way,”
I can only ask where are the sonnets of
Henry Handel Richardson, has Katharine
Prichard published any verse since some
tentative lyrics 15 years ago, has (or have)
M. Bamard-Eldershaw wooed the Muse in
secret? But there are already far too
many questions raised and abandoned in
this article.
NETTIE PALMER.
Lawson and Steele Rudd
Mary Gilmore (R.P. 22/l/’3O) is guilty
of a curious error. She credits Steele Rudd
with using the appellation “Mum.” No-
where, in either books or plays, does he
use it. In fact, I’ve heard him chuckle
reminiscently over Bert Bailey having
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


"Truth in Advertizing." Anthony Horderns’ name in an advertisement is a full
guarantee that every word, wise and illustration it contains is strictly correct.
ALL
Tested Cream Separators
Anthony Horderns'
(The Senior Store)
Cream Separators that efficiently separate every ounce of the cream; that are easy to clean; that are trouble-proof; that give
long and dependable service—these are the kind every user wants. They are the kind that An ony or ens .
addition to these highly desirable features, they are low-priced, another point that is certain to be of prime impor ance. Y
are in the market for a Cream Separator there is no better place to buy it than at The Senior Store, w ere, qua 1 y q ty
and price for price, values are the best.
sdf
An Easy Bowl
To Cleano
The improved construction of the
parts of the bowl makes it more
easily handled; the heavily rounded
parts eliminate crevices, thus ren-
dering the bowl highly sanitary.
“The Hordernia” is easily cleaned,
because it has the fewest number of
discs of any disc machine made;
besides, these discs fit in any order,
which makes assembly a matter of
moments only.
“Hordernia” Household Cream Separator.
In your selection of a Cream Separator there are certain basic principles that every thoughtful buyer should consider. First: Its perfection m
saving all the cream, leaving it sweet and clean to command the highest market price. Secon . lm P iclt y ° cons rue ion. lr ; „
operation. Fourth: The quality of material and workmanship thereon. On the basis of such fundamental principles we place the Horderma
Separator beside any separators on the market. _ £5/17/6
Hordernia No. 10. Skimming capacity, 15 gallons an hour. Price £7/2/6
Hordernia No. 11. Skimming capacity, 22 gallons an hour. Price *•; fq/19/fi
Hordernia No. 12. With the Milk Vat set on a special bracket. Skimming capacity, 30 gallons an hour. Price *y/i*/o
PRICES:
Capacity, 9 gal.
per hour.
Price . . £4/10/-
Capacity, 13 gal.
per hour.
Price ... £5/7/-
“Nugget”
Separator,
(Shown at left.)
The price of the “Nugget”
Separator brings it within
the reach of the smallest
dairyman. Even those
milking one cow will find
that it will pay handsomely
to instal one of these small
Separators, as the extra
cream that this machine
will take from the milk will
quickly repay the cost.
sd
“Felix”
Separator
(Shown at right.)
For those requiring a
Separator of greater cap-
acity than the “Nugget,”
the “Felix” has been de-
signed. This is worked by
hand, or can be fitted with
belt attachment to drive by
motor-power if desired.
Larger milk-receiving vats
can be supplied at an extra
charge and an allowance
made for the small vat if
same is not required. Auto-
matic splash oiling of all
gears and bearings. Spare
parts always procurable.
All wearing parts enclosed
in dustproof frame.
PRICES:
No. 5, 13 gal.
Price . . £6/3/6
No. 6, 20 gal.
Price . . £7/2/6
No. 7, 30 gal.
Price .. £B/11/-
“Alfa-Laval” Cream Separator (Illustrated Above).
TVfore leaving the factory each Separator is carefully tested for smooth running, clean skimming and uniformity of cream. These te f ts ““H*
f »Alf a ” trouble-proof. The latest model has automatic splash lubrication, thus doing away with oil holes and lubricators. The oil bath is
ilk wJt.r-anJdu.t-proof. If the handle i, turned too slowly a bell speed-indicator give, timely warning. The Alfa ,s easy to turn
j. ’ vto c le a n Each machine arrives securely packed in case with oil, tools and replacement parts. The case also contains an instruction
book which cleariy explains in a few simple words and numerous illustrations how to set up the machine in a few minutes and how to opera e
h afterwards WiSi average care an “Alfa” will last 15 years; during that time the few spare parts which may be required can always be
obtained by return post.
Capacity—
Gal. per hr. 13 22
Stand LOW. LOW.
Price, each £7/12/- £9/19/6
35 35 45 45 65 65 90
LOW. HIGH. LOW. HIGH. LOW. HIGH. LOW.
£l4/5/- £l6/3/- £lB/1/- £l9/19/- £24/14/- £27/1/6 £3l/7/-
(Dept>, Fourth Floor. We deliver free city and suburbs only.)
90
HIGH.
£33/14/-
110 130
HIGH. HIGH.
£4O/17/- £47
If it is not convenient to pay cash, use our Deposit-Purchase
System. Make a deposit, pay the remainder in instalments
that suit your convenience, and when the Separator is paid for
it will be delivered to you in the usual way. Of course, you
pay only the cash price.
Anthony Horderns
’Phone: M2J+Ol
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


THE NEW _ _
CHRYSLE R/0...77
NEW FROM THE GROUND UP
IN PERFORMANCE-C O N TR O L - L U X U R y AND BEAUTY
Only a short time ago all motor-cars were basically very much
alike. To-day none can compare with the new Chrysler “70”
and “77.” With their coming, a new era of automobile
development begins, and motoring takes on an entirely new and
more efficient aspect.
FEATURES OF THE CHRYSLER “70” & “77
ARCHITONIC BODIES.—New in prin-
ciple, non-squeaking, non-rumbling dread-
nought construction; new strength and
safety; new slanting non-glare windshield.
SYNCHRONISED POWER SYSTEM.—
Engineered as a unit from radiator to rear
axle; new flexibility, smoothness and
economy; still longer life.
MULTI-RANGE GEAR SHlFT.—Gives
new pleasure to driving; makes gear-
shifting a joy even to the inexperienced;
widens the power range; shifts gears as
always, but with new ease, new quickness,
new quietness.
DOWN-DRAFT CARBURETOR.—Not
merely a gravity manifold but a new prin-
ciple of fuelising; complete carburetion;
smoother power; higher mileage; quicker
operation. Extra large mechanical fuel
pump.
LARGER ENGlNES.—Greater piston dis-
placement; greater horse-power, torque and
operating economy; seven-bearing counter-
balanced crankshaft; Invar-Strut pistons;
full pressure lubrication; oil filter.
NEW SPACIOUSNESS.—AII bodies 3
inches wider; 3 to 5 inches longer accord-
ing to type; greater headroom; front seat
adjustable for leg length and pitch.
NEW BEAUTY. Dynamic symmetry,
chromium girdle mouldings; arched win-
dows v/ith chromium architraves; Pennon
louvres; sconce-type parking lights. Wide
colour choice with upholstery to match.
NEW INTERIOR LUXURY.—Newly-
engineered seat cushions; luxurious pillow-
type upholstery; metalware executed by
Cartier, world famous jewellers.
NEW RIDING COMFORI. Paraflex
springs; new chimney-type rubber shock
insulators; extra-depth girder-type double-
drop frame; hydraulic shock absorbers.
Oversize 6-ply balloon tyres.
NEW DRIVING EASE.—Chrysler light-
pressure weatherproof internal-expanding
4-wheel hydraulic brakes; finger-thin sure-
grip steel reinforced steering wheel; easy,
non-clashing gear control; new cam and
lever positive action steering gear; extra-
short turning radius; centralised instrument
panel.
Ride in them—drive them and discover for
yourself what an epochal contribution they
make to the problem of present-day indivi-
dualised transportation.
CHRYSLER
@ CHRYSLER MOTORS PRODUCT
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales Larke, Neave & Carter, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Lane s Motors Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Ward Motors, Ltd., Brisbane
West Australia , Wm. Attwood Motors, Ltd., Perth
South Australia
Tasmania ....
New Zealand .
New Guinea ..
Southern Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
. . . . Metro Motors Pty., Ltd., Hobart
. . Todd Motor Company, Wellington
W . R. Carpenter & Co., Ltd., Rabaul


guarantee
fadeless
This shirt has been made in our own factory and it repre-
sents the highest achievement in Australian-made garments.
We give our guarantee for the quality of the material the
high standard of the workmanship and the correctness of
cut, because we have employed experts to supervise the
making of it.
The cuffs are made to set flatly, the collar and neck-band
have been already thoroughly shrunk, it is supplied with
two matching “Prince of Wales” tab collars with stiffeners.
Made in Poplin—the stripes are woven into the cloth not
printed, therefore we guarantee it fadeless.
AT THE NEW STORE & GEORGE STREET
DAVID JONES’
126
irascibly rebuked a visitor to his dressing-
room at Sydney Palace Theatre, while “On
Our Selection” was being played. “Hell, no,”
Bailey roared; “he never wrote Mum-
Mother, Mother,, Mother'.”
I presume to differ with Mary Gilmore
on various other points of her keenly-ana-
lytical review of the works of Steele Rudd
and Lawson. To the superficial reader
there may seem to be a similarity in the
prose work of Lawson and Steele Rudd.
But to the true bushman Lawson, in his
graphic, pathetic writibgs of swagmen who
never strayed far off the main road, of town-
ship and city derelict and spieler and the
rest, vvas simply not in touch. And Lawson’s
technical errors, when he portrayed other
types and surroundings, such as droving
10,000 head of bullocks in one mob, grated
on the real bushman. In such things they
find Steele Rudd different, and know him
for one of themselves. In his “Romance
of Runnibede” (which was but feebly
screened) his Little Grey Homestead series,
which has been passing through The Bulle-
tin for some time, and in “Bush Horses
and Bush Horsemen,” he gives the impres-
sion that he has himself “moonlighted”
scrub cattle, hunted wild pigs on the
Maranoa, wheeled Searle’s brumbies in the
ranges, taken the jump and ridden his race
—all of which, in fact, he has done. But
where in Lawson’s work, admirable and fine
as a deal of it is, is there a sign that he
knew and absorbed the ways and haunts of
the great mobs, the wild life, the passion
of mad gallops, the stress and triumphs of
long night rides, the terrors of flooded
waters, the shifting of stock, and much
else that any writer must necessarily have
lived before he can faithfully interpret the
intense spirit of the Bush?
At the moment readers are so busy with
the humor of Steele Rudd that they fail to
see the pathos of him. Take just one
instance—“ The Night We Watched for
Wallabies.” The new baby was expected,
the hut was small, the walls thin and the
family, all but Sarah, dragged out of bed
at one o’clock on a bitter frosty morning to
chase imaginary wallabies off an already
denuded wheat, patch. Dad crouched by a
bit of fire endeavoring to pacify his pro-
testing offspring, waiting—listening, tremb-
ling for the sound of Sarah’s voice.... It
is time we looked at Steele Rudd a little
more closely.
WINIFRED HAMILION.
Progress, and the Banjo
There are two parts to poetry—form and
progress. A poem is a moving thing, and
every stanza or verse or section of a poem
must take the reader a step further forward
towards the end. There can be—there must
be—progression in lyrical poetry, just as
much as there is in narrative poetry. It is
this progression which modern Australian
poetry lacks; largely because it has very
little to say; also because it wobbles about
on all kinds of side-issues while it is saying
it. That is where Banjo Paterson ties
strings round most Australian poets who
aren’t Banjo—he does understand progress.
Besides, he manages to look quite beautiful
when he is moving fast: —
A shimmer of silk in the cedars
And into the running they wheeled.
That shimmer of silk in the cedars- is one
of the most striking lines I know; yet it
does not hinder Paterson’s movement.
The point is not that Paterson was a
poet of the bush, but that he sang about
things he knew and loved and understood.
He sang about, his life, simply, sensuously
and passionately. All his poems are not
poems; but our modern poets could do
worse than go back and study his sim-
plicity, his sincerity and especially his
feeling for progress.
RONALD McCUAIG.
Robinson Crusoe’s Cobbers
“Robinson Crusoe” is now in the eleventh
year of his third century. As one reviewer
has put it, the marvel is not that he is still
read, but that he should have been in exist-
ence for so short a time. The Brothers of
the Coast among whom Defoe found the
castaway Alexander Selkirk—marooned,
according to the custom, on his second
charge of theft from a comrade—have the
tags of years to tell when they flourished;
but their true time is that of Crusoe. It
is no time; they are legendary. Despite
history to the contrary, such as The Scourge
of the Indies, by Maurice Besson (Rout-
ledge), the seventeenth century does not
hold them. Their adoption of such pseu-
donyms as Chase-afoot, Never-fail, Hove-to,
One-arm, Musket; their amazing democracy,
with its aristocracy of courage only; their
rigid morality (on paper); their picturesque
clothing and accoutrements; their occasional
abandonment of muskets in favor of riding
to Court in carriages—it is a dream, a
fantasy, a piece of imagery wilder, more
improbable than Crusoe at his best, and
as real as Crusoe.
Defoe must have realised its greatness to
work the metamorphosis of Selkirk. In
the rules of the Brotherhood theft was
severely punished. “The Custom ordained
that when one Brother stole from another,
his nose and ears were to be cut off. If
he sinned again, he was to be given a mus-
ket, bullets, lead and a bottle of water and
then marooned.” That is what happened
to Selkirk, who existed for five years on
Juan Fernandez Island before ‘he was
rescued. On the face of it, he looks a petty
prototype for Crusoe; but it was not Sei-
kirk, it was the courageous fraternity he
represented that supplied the fibre of
Defoe’s immortal. The filibusters—not to
be confused with buccaneers or corsairs—
were as true a Brotherhood as the earth
has known. There is a close relationship
between them and the Socialists—or their
aspirations—of to-day. Their confraternity
dates to about 1640, when they formulated
a definite code—the Custom of the Brothers
of the Coast. Every filibuster swore that
he woidd strictly observe the regulations,
and signed his oath with a cross. The
Custom was essentially republican. There
were simple rules, such as that which De-
foe’s prototype suffered under; but de-
cisions of importance were left to free
discussion and vote. They owed allegiance
“only to Godl” -Fighting on board ship
was strictly taboo. If there was a quarrel
it had to wait till the first landing for
settlement. Cards and gambling were for-
bidden. There was a Workman’s Compen-
sation Act. The loss of an eye in a fight
was worth 100 crowns or a slave; both
hands or both arms, 600 crowns or six
slaves, and so on. “In respect of prizes
which shall surrender voluntarily, without
making any resistance, it is forbidden to
each of us to kill the prisoners, the Spaniards
excepted.” Hangings from the yard-arm,
walkings on the. plank, apparently were not
done. “He shall have his head split open
on the spot,” is the popular formula of
retribution. Though official taboo was on
the unauthorised killing, of prisoners—a
gentle custom not yet extinct—it was no
uncommon thing to massacre a whole ship-
load taken alive, so there should be no
other mouths to feed. Taking a woman
on board ship, disguised or otherwise, was
as rigid a taboo as any. “He shall have
his head split open” applied punctiliously
there. Yet women filibusters existed and
flourished, and one of the lesser illustrations
of “The Scourge of the Indies” depicts one
of them blowing out the brains of a sailor
“who had insulted her.”
The book, in addition to a running
account of the Brotherhood, holds such
original eye-witness documents as have
come down from the day. There are, too,
140 approximately contemporary black-and-
white illustrations and five color-plates that
are the treasure of the volume. Quite un-
usual skill and care has gone to making
them live as close as possible to the
originals. They have been dipped 'in a
chemical bath to impart the flavor of age,
and each has been colored by hand. It is
a book essentially for collectors, but the
stuff in it is so good that a cheaper edition
would be very welcome.
A Satchel of Books
Anne Stuart, by Beatrice Curtis Brown
(Bles). A gallant attempt to prove that
Queen Anne was not as dead as the catch-
phrase has made her, The work is careful
and competent, but not stamped with r..iy
power of personality.
Light and Leading (Methuen). Under
that unpromising title is gathered the bright-
est collection of brief light-heart essays that
has come out of a newspaper for many a
day. The length runs to from 400 to 500
words; the topics embrace such things as
“Anti-noise Week,” “Chinese Boxing,” “Lo-
quacity as a Profession,” “Waiters,” “Brighter
Cows,” “Lion Farms” and a hundred other
oddities. The essays appeared as last leaders
in the “Times” during the past two years,
and the collection can be commended with-
out reserve to anyone with a taste for
whimsical humor conjured up out of serious
thought. As journey reading it would be
extremely hard to beat.
Australia To-day, by Arthur J. Wilson
(Larby). Refreshing, if only for the change
of hearing a visitor who is prepared to
assert that Australia is a “fascinating
country.” Mr. Wilson, at 70, tore himself
away from Britain to have a look at his
daughter and grandchildren, “characteristic
young settlers of the New World.” He found
time in his five-months’ stay to see a large
slice of Australia also, and his friendly,
brightly-written appraisal is a palatable anti-
dote to the general loudness of the dis-
gruntled. Nothing better could be put into
the hands of intending migrants, both for
their sake and Australia’s. The writer has
two eyes, and uses both of them.
The Marryat Novel•s. The House of Dent,
which can always be relied upon to make a
good job of any revival it undertakes, is
surpassing itself with the 22-vol. edition of
Captain Marryat’s novels. The latest to
hand, Vols. VII to X, embrace “Japheth in
Search of a Father,” “Snarleyyow, or the
Dog Fiend,” “The Phantom Ship” and (in
one vol.) “Olla Podrida,” “The Pirate” and
“The Three Cutters.” The books are admir-
ably bound, with critical introductions to
each by R. Brimley Johnson, who also writes
a comprehensive essay on Marryat as pre-
face to Vol I. There are plentiful illustra-
tions in drawing and etching, and altogether
at 3s. 6d. each (London price) the issue is
as close to a bargain as any book-lmnter is
ever likely to find.
+
The latest bestseller by an Australian is
Elliot Smith’s “Human History,” the
American edition of which was sold out in
a month. Mencken, of the American
“Mercury,” selects it from a multitude of
new scientific works as the only one which
appears to combine commonsense with
great erudition. The Grafton (N.S.W.)
native advances the theory that the cradle
of the human race was between the Hima-
layas and the heart of Africa. This is in
accordance with the hypothesis of the dif-
fusion of culture, of which he is the chief
apostle. As proof of his doctrine he has
pointed out similarities between the burial
ceremonies of North Queensland abos. and
the ancient Egyptians. He is hotly con-
tradicted by the apostles for independent
origin.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Miss Mashie: Thanks, thanks—it is all
we can say. .. .R.M.R.: You, too. It looks as though
there may have to be a supplement of some sort.
....Nil: Even so. .. .H.S.A.: Gone to what “Belle-
rive” calls “waste-paper basket’s he 11”... .Country
L.: Held pending name and address.... V.N.: Pre-
scribe a good feed of oats for “The New C01t”....
S.D.: Prepared to take your word for it. Otherwise
we don’t believe it....F.H.: Do nothing desperate.
You might be able to get it out of you through
prose. .. .M.C.D.: Begin to wish drought would cease
to inspire poets. ... V.W.: Fairly well done, but on
the sticky side... .R.W.: Nothing expressive in that
trio. ...J.: Have a reminiscent ring about ’em....
B.B.: “Request"’ turned . down... .A.T.: See no good
reason why it should have been called “Thoughts.”
Shypoo: Quite right; but it wasn’t Phil May
who drew the heading for the “Wild Cat” Column—
it was “Hop.” The Column wasn’t born till after
May left. .. . H.M.W.; You’ll never get anywhere
until you take more pains C.W.: Color good;
story too weak even to totter to its grave.... Myos:
Much obliged. But we have the records, while the
“Encyclopaedia” writer has only the myth. .. .Frank
L.: Well done, but too hard to swallow.... 8.N.Y.:
You dawdle too much. . . .R.P.W.: “Supposing a
nation was to invade Australia, would it be impos-
sible for that nation to convey and convoy an army-
inland along the Murray-Darling river system by
means of high-powered, heavily-armored speed boats,
and for that army to fight towards the coast, thus
driving those unfortunate people who lived in such
cities as Melbourne into the sea?” Ask Mr. “Texas”
Green —he’s running that department. .. .Lira: I.et
those who are hurt do the squealing. .. .C.X.:
First attempt? It was written by another 33 years
ago... .Westerner: If you’re young there is hope
for you. ... J.D.: Close to what’s wanted... .U.D.I. :
On a points award the idea would net a blank, if
not a blanky.. . .Burrundie: Has merit, but the
treatment’s rocky. Also, the theme is out of date.
.. . ..H.W.G.: States a rather obvious case....
W.G.S.: Truer than most, but its bumps are fright-
ful. .. .A.G.A.: Doesn’t suggest sincerity.... A.C.K.A.;
It’s pretty- bad. . . .R.G.L.: Verse a hundred times
brighter than the prose. If you could use your
verse language in the other work you’d get a better
hearing. .. .J. A.E.: The lad speaks a curious tongue.
Even dialect has to sound feasible. . . .Septimus Anon:
No good, Sept.. .. . J.S.: Years too young, whatever
your age. .. .Lalirra: Now you’ve gone and made
everybody blush.... Strilo: Same thoughts already
expressed. .. .Cea S.: Each has something in it, but
all fall in the run - home. .. .K. 8.: Even throwing a
rhyme in now and then doesn’t make it sound like
verse. .. .Con.: Good on the descriptive:—
Jew and Gentile half-caste white
Yankee niggers black’s the night
Clothes both new and secondhand
A peanut stall a lolly stand
Ducks and chooks and fish and prawns
Seeds and flowers and sods for lawns
Screws and nails for every tool-kit
You’ll find them all in Paddy’s Market.
. ...G.P.H.: “Home.” That’s what happened to
it. . . .A.0.A.: “Father Time” has been cremated.
... .Jean: Only a list.. .. A.V.: All “Romance” lacks
is a bit of the same... .C.J.: Well, the intention
is all right.... Joyken: Not much promise in those
samples... .E.A.V.C.: Diabolical practice, but better
than verse. ... Pom: “Pestilence” and “Saucy” went
arm in arm to the stake.... Billy Nudgel: Has its
moments, but flops over the distance... .0.A.H.: No
substance in “Souls of Mirage”.... Eggsact: Thanks;
the enthusiasm has been wonderful.... D. 8 .; Curtain
rung down on “Song of a Programme”.... V. If.:
Would have to double the size of the paper before
there’d be space for it C.T.: Don’t miss by very
much. . . ,E. 8.: A little in the idea, but you don’t
extract it. . . .Custos: Jingly stuff, saved from damna-
tion by odd bits of grin. . . .L.E.W.: “Wise Sayings”
tested and found otherwise. .. .N.E.S.: You’ve a fair
climb ahead of you R.G.M.: Gladly give you all
you ask. Now it’s 3 r our turn. .. . A.W.R.: Started
well, but got down to passing the old remarks....
Alec: “Farewell”....Elron: You need a good deal
more than that to say. . . .Chelsus: Dialect force.!.
. ...D.W.M.: It’s so easy to do that sort of thing.
. ...C.H.0.: Possibly all very true, but it’s a tough
bone as verse. .. .Jonne: “Bushland Mails” consigned
to the G.P.O E.R.G.A.; Fragile. .. .Pencil Point:
You write a thin line... .Nature-lover; Like best
in the “Litany” the line, “For all that Thou hast
given us free”. .. . J.P.: Very well, it is hopeless.
.. ..1.W.J.: Rather a statement of the obvious....
P.T.: “Wirabi’s Dreams” do not foretell a cheque.
Siriol: Can’t get any kick out of ’em. . . .W.F.:
“Very poor indeed.” No. we’d only say poor.
.. . . J.M.; Mostly prose... .C.S.G.: Can’t see why he
should. .. .A.G.M.: Story of a girl and her cup
winner due for a rest... .0.C.F1.: Regret can’t use.
. ...G.E.; You have a lot to learn about life and
letters.... J.K.J.: Nearly... .M.L.: Maybe, but hear-
say i s not evidence. .. .T.H.L.: Half not bad; ether
half dreadful... .H.C.: Too much wood in the keg
yarn. .. .ILJ.G.: Fluttered out' on the wings of
imagination. .. .E.C.M.: No wonder the pariah dog
howled when Hassan returned... .A.F.E.: Story ,of
rich uncle who had no thumbs turned down. . . .Uncle
B. (and others) : Glad to hear “Bareheaded Allan”
is still on deck in M.L J.C.: True, but as verse poor.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.P.: Not buying that. .. . H.W.: Unlike the novel-
ist in the gag, you don’t even make good use oi
the paper. .. .F.E.S.: “People say I have talent”
The flatterers!... .H.L.: Your pen runs away with
y0u.... H.E.: Let’s know when they’re celebrating
again at AVong AVong; we should like to pay it a
visit. ... W.G.R.: You won’t set the art world on
fire.... M.C.: No space for imitative work. .. . M.H.:
You need a lot more polish.... S.D.: Not the week’s
worst, but very near it. . . .8.F.: Did your fowls
walk over the paper?. .. .D.C.: Depressing mixture
of two distinct styles. .. .15.5.: Even the sight of so
many legs couldn’t tempt us. . . .T.A.: Still among
the artistic flyweights. . . .U.A.J.: You can’t even
draw a bedpost. .. .G.T.T.: Shows promise, but you
have heaps to learn. .. .P.0.M.: No humor in it.
. ...P.L.; No good. .. .8.5.; Hopeless... .C.G.: The
ballroom drawing might find a place elsewhere..,.
A. 8 .: You belong to the prickly-pear school.


fsd
f
mm'y&
■ ■ ■■l H
illls
wm w
raraH
■J! ' ■:
ill
■
H
U
% >3%
5 "
|flH|
Ute
«
<sm :,
»
mm
; .s
a*'
Hi
SHB :
mm
fc
■
I i
sSHSjp ,1
Mb
,0
m
m
111
» ■ i
£ j
■
■
i
-
■
'ttfEß


The Bulletin
Vol. 51.—N0. 2610.
February 19, 1930.
“ENGAGEMENTS.”
Victoria will hold its Liquor or No-liquor referendum on March 29. Meantime the queer couple pictured above are “walking out together. ”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 21i George Street, Sydney;
Box 252188 ; ’Phone 57971.
Victoria: lli-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 2i9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westiialia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom; ioz. to 10oz., lid. ;
each additional J,oz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: ioz. or part thereof.
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED page literary ARTICLES .. 2, 5
MORE WAR \BOOKS—INCLUDING THE
BEST. By Cecil Mann . . .. . . 2
STEELE RUDD AND LAWSON—
By Winifred Hamilton . . .. 2, 6
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. . . 5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON . . . . 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
THE COAL STRIKE; SETTLE IT OR STEP
ASIDE! 8
WHAT THE EXPORT OF GOLD MEANS . . 8
THE CULT OF THE NUDE IN GERMANY—
By R. S. Panton . . .. .. 8
WHOM SHALL WE SACK? 8
THE TECHNIQUE OF TYRANNY—N.S.W.
LEG. COUNCIL REFORM . . . . 9
WOOL, AND WHAT’S WRONG WITH IT . . 9
A WARNING FROM LONDON 9
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 9
POLITICAL POINTS (with caricatures) .. 10
POVERTY POINT 11
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 11
PERSONAL (with caricatures) . . .. ..IS
SOCIETY (with drawings) . . . . 14, 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. . . 10
“THE CRADLE SONG” at Sydney Savoy .. 16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
SYDNEY FERRIES 18
SQUATTING INVESTMENT 18
KAURI TIMBER 18
N.Z. REFRIGERATING 18
MORE QUEER LIFE INSURANCE DOINGS 20
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 23, 25
Free Service Department .. 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 31
FARM ACCOUNTS, No. 1 28
HOW TO BEAT THE FOX 28
HARVESTING SUB. CLOVER .. . . 28
QUESTIONS ANSWERED 31
SMOKE-OH (with three drawings) .. . . 32
PEN AND PICTURE 35
NEWEST TALKIES 35
GOSSIP OF THE INKY WAY 35
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, etc 36
SPORTING (illustrated) 39, 41, 42
WARWICK FARM RACES 39
Y.A.T.C. RACES 39
SHEFFIELD SHIELD CRICKET . . . . 39
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 45
New Are Human”—
By Vance Palmer .. . . 47, 51, 52, 58
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE . . . . 48
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 50
Two Complete Stories—
“THE CURSE OF THE RANSIIAWS,” by
N. A. M. Markey .. .. .. 55, 57
“PISTOL AND POISON,” by H. T. Gibson 57, 58
VERSE —By Dr. Souter, A. A. Bayldon, Dulcie
Deamer .. .. .. ..14, 55, 58
NEXT WEEK.
With this issue “The Bulletin,” having
had its Jubilee, will begin a weekly page of
reproductions of the gems of prose, pic-
ture and verse it published in the
’eighties, so that pleasant memories may
be revived in old readers and a new gen-
eration may enjoy the things that delighted
an earlier one. Drawings by “Hop” and
Phil May and some galloping verse by
Kenneth Mackay will be included in this
week’s page.
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1930.
SETTLE IT—OR STAND ASIDE!
Australia is entitled to know what the
parties to this coal dispute are doing to end
it. Even if it is granted that the people
are not entitled to tell them how they shall
end it, proof at least should be required
that steps of some sort are being taken.
The time has passed, if it ever arrived,
when it was open to the controllers of great
natural sources of wealth to close them
down indefinitely. No country heavily in
debt to foreign creditors could admit such
a right. In our own case we have pledged
ourselves to pay something like 30 mil-
lions a year to foreign creditors in interest,
and payment can be made only by using
our resources to the utmost. The con-
trollers of the coalmines in common with
others are under an obligation to the
nation to use every means in their power to
produce their proper share of this interest.
They may fail to do it. They may even
be justified in that failure. But at least
there is an obligation upon them to en-
deavor to do their part and to go on
endeavoring to do it.
There is an equal obligation upon every
worker and every body of workers. They
are justified in trying to get more money
for their labor. It may be admitted in
their case just as in the other that the
community may not have the right to
prescribe the ways by which they shall
try to enforce their demands. They may
thus be entitled to strike. But they are
not entitled to sit down indefinitely and
do nothing else to bring a dispute to an
end. The nation has gone enormously
into debt to provide them with railways,
schools, hospitals and other public services,
and on that debt interest has to be paid
regularly. That interest cannot be paid
unless the men for whose benefit the debt
was incurred carry on their jobs. If they
strike, even if they are locked out, there
is an obligation upon them to either un-
ceasingly endeavor to settle the dispute or
seek other employment.
In certain cases there is a heavier
obligation than usual upon the parties
to strive after settlement. This is
most obvious in regard to public utili-
ties and key industries. Suppose, for
example, the Sydney Ferries decided to
lock out their employees for the purpose
of enforcing a reduction of wages: it would
be absurd to assume that they would have
the right to merely tie up their vessels
and trust to starvation to Send the men
back to work at some time in the remote
future. Or if the men went On strike for
higher pay, it is inconceivable that we
could concede them the right to sit down
and wait for the shareholders to get tired
of going without dividends. The com-
munity would insist that at least the parties
confer and confer again until a settlement
was reached; or if it was obvious that a
settlement could not be reached that way,
then something would have to be said to
the parties.
What the two parties to every industrial
dispute must be got to realise is that there
is a third party, and that the time comes
when it must regard both of them as its
adversary. It is, as a rule, a very long-
suffering party, but its patience is not
inexhaustible. It will sit back resignedly
if it can see that the other two are making
an honest effort to compose their differ-
ences; in many cases its interest in the
dispute is so remote that it is indifferent.
But where public services and key industries
are concerned there is not room for either
delay or indifference. And especially is
there not room for delay or indifference
in a country threatened with such serious
financial trouble as Australia faces at this
moment. We simply cannot afford pro-
tracted idleness of either men or mines or
any other potential source of wealth.
In such circumstances—which is to say,
in our existing circumstances—the duty of
Governments is clear. Upon them falls the
burden of meeting the difficulties that arise
from this protracted industrial dog-fight.
Upon them, therefore, falls the duty of
calling upon the parties to get together and
settle it. They must be told that there is
a third party whose interests can no longer
be sacrificed. That third party, the nation,
they must be told, simply insists upon a
conclusion. It is no use saying that a
settlement cannot be reached. It has got
to be reached. If it is not done willingly,
pressure will have to be applied. The
trouble has lasted just on 12 months; for a
whole year an industry has been laid up
notwithstanding that a hundred other indus-
tries depend upon it more or less, and
there is not a household in Australia which
is not affected directly or indirectly. This
is too ridiculous to be any longer suffered
by a community with a grain of intelli-
gence or a spark of spirit.
THE CULT OF THE NUDE.
Mr. Panton is an Australian who
proceeded to Europe for a post-
graduate University course, and hav-
ing completed it has settled down to
journalism in Berlin.
Nacktkultur is not the study of the nude.
It is the study of living in the nude. As
practised in Germany, it is not immorality;
it is a religion. Its followers claim that it is
the way back to health and spiritual sanity;
that it is the highest form of morality,
reaching it by the negative process of de-
stroying the roots and branches of immoral-
ity—-sex secrets, sex curiosity and sex mysti-
fication. Eveiything is made good by the
refusal to admit evil. The veto on the
forbidden fruit is raised, making the fruit
no longer desirable. The forbidden fruit,
seen in all its nakedness, loses its charm,
becoming an ordinary apple, often speckled,
often weevily.
The Germans, overburdened with material
chains, have done as all overburdened and
oppressed peoples do: they have returned to
the spiritual for re'lief and hope. Not the
nation as a whole, but that proportion of
it which is elementally idealistic and which
was suppressed by the materialism of the
30-years’ reign of the ex-Kaiser. The
spiritual in the German, however, is closely
allied with the things of the body; the
two extremes of spirituality and paganism
meeting in him and producing the wander-
ing pagan poet, with idealism in his eyes,
and in his body a love of the sensuous.
The spiritual path of this kind of Ger-
man runs through the body, and thus
Nacktkultur is an attempt to bring back
the days of Eden by removing the serpent
of sex, or, rather, drawing his fangs by
clothing his desired victims in the armor of
knowledge. This sex serpent of immorality
has many foods, but the most important are
ignorance, curiosity and repression. The
origin of Nacktkultur is the claim that the
greatest aid to morality is not to hide sex
and immorality, but to strip both naked.
At the present state of the world’s de-
velopment such a thing is only for idealists
and rank materialists. To the former it is a
religion ; to the latter a means to health. Its
introduction to the world at large would be
a calamity, for the peoples are not yet ripe
for it. The success of such idealistic move-
ments depends entirely on the education of
the next generation from its birth. The
adult mind is too set to be affected or
changed by such a doctrine; only the child
can be brought up to look on nudity as
the natural state, and not a cause for shame.
We are not born into evil; we imbibe it.
We are not naturally wicked; the world
teaches us to be so.
Nacktkultur claims that by the free inter-
mingling of both sexes in the nude, sexual
desire and sexual intercourse are relegated
to their proper place among the other
desires of the flesh. In the relationship
between the sexes at the various and
numerous clubs of the cult, sex as such
is entirely disregarded. The mystery of sex
is shown to be a hoax, and thus, it is
affirmed, sex is reduced from its position at
the helm to its correct place as a cog in the
engine-room.
There are dozens of these Nacktkultur
clubs in Berlin and hundreds throughout
Germany, each with its park-plot where the
members can be naked. In the summer the
members bathe, sunbake, play games and
practise eurhythmies and gymnastics to-
gether without—in theory at any rate—any
consciousness of their nudity. In the
winter they hire swimming halls and con-
tinue the programme. There are no class
distinctions, all grades of society being rep-
resented. It is said that a countess and
a prince can be seen any morning bathing
in this state at the Wellenbad, a tremen-
dous swimming hall with artificial waves.
The club magazines contain health
articles, Nacktkultur news and photos of
members in the club undress. These photos
are not at all retouched, and would cause a
traffic block if they were to be shown in
a Sydney shop-window. Here in Berlin
they are sold in the street and no one
stops to look at them, for curiosity and
ignorance about sex matters are not faults
of the Germans. They are bought by mem-
bers of the clubs and other interested per-
sons. The others buy the conventional
papers in which the almost nude is made
more exciting by being slightly clothed.
Yet, though the cult is numerous and
growing fast, Nacktkultur interests mainly
the German of Yesterday and To-morrow:
the former is shocked, the latter enthusias-
tic. The German of To-day is not so inter-
ested, as he practises a Nacktkultur of a
more temperate form. In summer Berlin
is surrounded by an army of the near-nude.
Hundreds of thousands of persons bathe in
the numerous lakes in a lack of costume
which would not be tolerated in Australia.
The men usually wear either trunks only
or very scanty V’s; the women wear as
little as possible, keeping just within the
elastic law. The crowds undress in the
open, nobody paying any attention to the
performance.
Thus is Germany educating the new gen-
eration. These half-way crowds of to-day
will swell the ranks of the Nacktkultur
followers of to-morrow: whether for good or
bad is a matter of personal opinion. It is,
however, interesting to note that for its size
Berlin is the healthiest city in the world,
and that its health has grown better in
the last few years.
BERLIN.
R. S. PANTON.
SHIPPING AWAY OUR GOLD
RESERVES.
‘lt is regrettable, but nevertheless inevitable, that
for the immediate future at any rate external trade
with Australia must suffer, and it is absolutely neces-
sary that imports of all unnecessary things be re-
duced to a minimum until the situation is adjusted.”
—Robert Gibson, Chairman of the Commonwealth
Rank, at the tail-end of an interview.
The Commonwealth Bank decided the
other day “to ship immediately to London”
another 7,000,000 sovereigns. This will
make over £17,000,000 exported since last
July, about which time it became evident
that external loans had gone into a state
of suspense. Some temporary money has
certainly been raised since, but it was so
temporary that the date of repayment is
already not far off. Of the amount ex-
ported less than £2,000,000 was produced
by the Commonwealth mines during the
period, and over £15,000,000 was taken from
the accumulated reserves of the banks—the
reserve which protects the Federal note-
issue and the amounts in joint-stock in-
stitutions, on which last the Government
has laid hands in a great emergency. So
far as it is possible to ascertain, Australia
never before sent away so much gold in so
short a time in the 79 years during which
it has been dealing in the precious metal,
and even when it once exported £19,000,000
inside 12 months it was only sending away
the current output. (The current output
in 1903 was something that looks incredible
in 1930.) Never before was there any
seizure of the banks’ gold reserves.
It is explained in a polite sort of way
that the wholesale export of sovereigns is
merely for the purpose of building up an
external reserve against external liabilities.
The expression sounds well, but if a re-
serve is built up to-day and paid away for
the satisfaction of urgent creditors to-
morrow it is hardly worth calling by that
name.
The outside liabilities, so far as the
Government is concerned, consist of the
annual bill for interest on the recognised
external debt, and on the mass of bank
overdrafts which the various Governments
have accumulated in London to keep the
pot boiling for the time, or, at least, to
prevent it freezing. The amount of the
overdrafts is uncertain, but £28,000,000 has
been mentioned.
The interest bill on the recognised exter-
nal debt may be set down at £30,000,000
per annum. This and a number of sun-
dries should be met by the surplus of
exports over imports. It has been met
very consistently since 1920 out of new
loans, because Australia dropped into habits
of under-production of local goods and
over-consumption of imported luxuries. In
the consequent lack of productive work to
do it has suffered grievously from the
unemployment curse, and has fallen a silly
prey to imported revolutionaries with in-
structions from Moscow, and has made
more unemployment for itself in the pro-
cess. When the demand for loans became
outrageous even in a good year the sup-
pliers naturally took alarm. Hence the
desperate and wholly novel raid on the
stock of gold.
No inroad has been made, the public is
assured, nor is one intended, on the legal
gold reserve (25 per cent., or about
£11,000,000) held as security for the Com-
monwealth note-issue. But whether the
Commonwealth exports all the sovereigns
it can lay hands on, or all of them less
£11,000,000, they are certainly dissipating
fast.
So bank-chairman Gibson states that it
is “absolutely necessary that imports of all
unnecessary things should be reduced to a
minimum.” This is an immortal truth.
Such reduction would not only stop the
accumulation of external liabilities (payable
in gold) which will otherwise land Aus-
tralia in bankruptcy, but it would make for
local employment and wages, and con-
sequently make more contentment and
fewer basher gangs. The Bulletin awoke
to the position in all its aspects long ago,
and has persistently urged that the im-
portation of “unnecessary things” should be
prohibited on a large scale—large enough to
enable Australia to do without new external
debts and to gradually pay off old ones.
It didn’t, and doesn’t, propose this as a
last gasp of despair, but as a calm, settled
policy. And whereas bank-chairman Gibson
says “it is regrettable,” The Bulletin
doesn’t regret anything. It utterly fails to
see that employment and wages and a
demand for new population to man our
factories is a matter to weep over, but
regards them as cause for lighting bonfires
and letting off fireworks (made in Australia).
Further, this paper considers it as hope-
lessly ridiculous (ridiculous in the most
Freetrade sense of the-adjective) that the
reform should only last “until the situation
can be adjusted.” It is possible that the
situation may be capable of “adjustment”
some day, and for an uncertain time, by a
resumption of the old loan policy and by
making a fresh start on the road to ruin.
Then it should be possible to resume the
importation of “all unnecessary things,” and
to close up the Australian factories which
began to make unnecessary things while
the interdict was on, and turn the workers
adrift. The idea seems to be that we should
go to Heaven as a temporary expedient
while Hell is being repaired.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Whom Shall We Sack?
The new tariff has had a trial, and the
financial position improved during the last
month. Nevertheless exports of merchan-
dise and of gold actually raised were still
about £3,000,000 short of paying for imports,
and the month’s interest bill abroad was
wholly unprovided for. For the half-year
to the end of December exports failed to
pay for imports by over £16,000,000. That
amount and at least £15,000,000 of interest
were left to be covered by loans when these
can be got. At the same rate there will be
£62,000,000 to be covered by loans for the
whole year to the end of June, if they can
be got. The half-year’s position would have
been much worse on paper but for the fact
that about £8,500,000 of gold reserves was
included in the exports. Meantime there
has been an anxious scratching up of tem-
porary overdrafts wherever they could be
procured.
The Ministry meant well when at pro-
duced its new tariff. But it didn’t come
within miles of realising the size of the
emergency, and it depended on a hope,
which amounted to little then and hasn’t
improved by keeping, that the loan business
would revive to a highly improbable ex-
tent. It was a matter of relying on a rich
uncle without being sure that he would
part, and without being sure that he had
anything to part with.
The need is for a reduction of imports on
an unprecedented scale, it being difficult
to increase exports in value unless people
abroad can be beguiled to pay more for
them, and equally difficult to make them
expand in quantity till the next harvest
comes in. The value of import-suppression
which was wanted during the second half of
1929 was £31,000,000, as already mentioned.
The air is thick with melancholy fore-
bodings about the impossibility of starting
more unproductive loan works to absorb
a fraction of the unemployed. They never
absorb more than a fraction. There are
still worse tales about the great proba-
bility of partly-finished works being stopped
short, and left to accumulate interest lia-
bilities and earn nothing. In addition the
possibility of running existing affairs with
diminished staffs is loudly discussed. In
this connection it has been decided to com-
press two N.S.W. railway departments into
one, and give the peremptory sack to
various high officials, including Bradfield,
chief engineer of metropolitan railway con-
struction and the man in charge of the


THE RETREAT FROM MOSKA.
“Federal Ministers complain rather bitterly that certain Labor papers and Labor politicians are making no effort to inform their followers as to the true financial situation.
New loan money is simply not obtainable, and without it loan works obviously cannot be carried on.”
Sydney Harbor bridge. Bradfield is an Aus-
tralian with a long and distinguished record;
but if there is about to be a general stop-
page of works the services of some distin-
guished Australians and many undistin-
guished ones will become superfluous. The
position would be made easier if Australia
dispensed in a peremptory way with the
services of a multitude of the undistin-
guished foreigners who make unnecessary
goods for us. Then there would be more
money in Australia to pay our own people
with.
■ —■—#
The Technique of Tyranny.
The Lang campaign against the reform of
the N.S.W. Legislative Council is a charac-
teristic move in the rotten old game of im-
posing tyrannies. The one difference be-
tween modern demagogues and ancient
kings is that, whereas the kings claimed to
derive from Heaven their right to boss the
herd, the politicians base theirs on de-
mocracy. The basis of the new theology
is that the people always choose the best
possible representatives by ballot, even
when the ballot-boxes have sliding panels;
and that those elected always carry out
the wishes of the electors. In practice,
of course, the people have little chance to
express their collective will at the polls.
A large proportion, in any case, have no
capacity for speculative thought, and, con-
sequently, no opinions of value on any poli-
tical subject. And even those electors who
know what they want, and vote to get it, are
liable to be betrayed by'the men they have
put in power. A Theodore gets votes by
promising to “open the mines in a fort-
night,” and, once safely in office, loses all
interest in the mines.
It, is significant of the failure of the
system to provide Parliamentarians capable
of carrying out the wishes of all their sup-
porters that, on the same day last week,
the I.L.P. in London should have passed a
resolution “strongly disapproving of the
MacDonald Government and demanding its
resignation,” and the A.L.P. in Sydney
should have “made proposals which were a
direct challenge to the Federal Government
on the coal question.” Both these protests
happened to express the dislike of ex-
tremism for moderation. And yet every
Labor party, in addition to its revolution-
aries, has an enormous proportion of men
and women who look on revolution as
national suicide. In N. S. Wales the pro-
portion of extremists to moderates (outside
Trades Hall circles, where Reds pre-
dominate) is probably about the same as
the proportion of criminals to normal
citizens.
Political Reds resemble criminals in an-
other respect: they hate checks on their
enterprises; they lust for untrammelled
powers. Here we have the entire objection of
the tyrannical Lang faction to any kind of
chamber of review. The reformed Council
will have no power to amend a money bill,
or bill appropriating revenue, or to prevent
any bill from being passed. But it will
have power to hold a measure in check
while its provisions are explained to the
people in a non-party spirit. Such a
Council is no more a menace to a decent
politician than a referee is to a decent
boxer. The only threat it offers is to in-
competent autocrats who depend for much
of their success in public life on being
allowed to make their ghastly political and
industrial mistakes in the dark.
Finance and White Australia.
From a highly-placed ex-Australian in
London:—
Recent reports regarding Cloncurry and
Mt. Elliott (Q.) are to the effect that min-
ing operations are held up there pending a
change in labor conditions. As uncon-
cernedly as I could I have sought to find
what interested city friends understand by
this. Practically without exception they
have replied that they suppose it has some-
thing to do Avith the pending introduction
of colored labor —Chinese is usually men-
tioned —in Northern Australia.
Australia has never realised—-though
apparently The Bulletin has all along—
what a whip of scorpions it Avas making for
itself by its heavy foreign borrowing policy
without the safeguard of an adequate sinking
fund held in foreign securities. The obvious
failure of the Commonwealth to provide for
payment of interest on these loans except out
of the proceeds of further loans has quite
convinced most English people, as far as
I can judge and as far as they
have any opinion on the subject at _ all,
that the white-labor policy has also failed.
Unfortunately the realisation of Australia’s
financial AA T eakness has come at the
moment Avhen a Labor Government has
succeeded to office; and the ill-informed
naturally regard the two circumstances as
cause and effect.
Britain is not at all interested in main-
taining the White Australia policy. It has,
however, felt no urge to interfere with
it in any way. But if Australia should ask
for any financial concessions whatever from
Britain, there will be a very strong body of
opinion urging it to bring pressure upon
the Commonwealth Government to admit
coolie labor for the development of the North.
And there is no question whatever that the
U.S.A. will give support to that movement;
for it can see in Northern Australia, allied
with Chinese labor, a fine field for the in-
vestment of capital. Its chief foreign in-
terest at present is to counter the steady
movement of Japan towards the domination
of the Pacific; and in the dcA'elopment of
Northern Australia with American money
and Chinese labor many U.S.A. statesmen
and financiers sec a valuable counter-move
against Japanese expansion.
' The point to be stressed, I think, is that,
if a financial crash is permitted to develop
in Australia, the Commomvealth will find
enormous difficulty in maintaining its White
Australia doctrine.
—❖ —
General Smuts.
The cables report that General Smuts, the
ex-Premier of S. Africa, is mentioned as a
probable Governor-General of Australia. If
any such idea is really entertained, it should
be dropped at once. Australia has no
objections to the South African personally;
but he is too close to party politics that
are too much like our own. At the pre-
sent moment he is leader of the Nation-
alists, and therefore of the party sitting
in opposition to the combined Dutch and
Labor parties. As our contributor “Trans-
vaaler” explained last week, Smuts stands in
very much the same position as W. M.
Hughes did in Australia before he was
superseded by S. M. Bruce. How to relieve
him of the leadership without causing
disruption is a problem which has been
troubling a section of his party for some
time past. Probably they see in an Aus-
tralian appointment not only a way out of
their difficulty but a way that will do honor
to their chief and win some reflected glory
for themselves. But much as we might
desire to oblige South Africa, our first duty
is to preserve the respect in which the office
of Governor-General is held in Australia;
and to do that there must be no suspicion
of partisanship in any holder of it. Gen-
eral Smuts, coming to Australia, might
forget that he ever was a partisan. But
others will not forget it; and thereby irre-
parable damage may be done to the high
regard in which the office should be held
and thus far has been held.
*
Wool, and What’s Wrong.
Dear Bulletin, — First, may I introduce
myself? I am one Australian-born who,
though engaged many years in business in
America, have never lost touch with my
native land.
I have just read “Wool, and What’s
Wrong” (B'. 20/11/’29). From the Depart-
ment of Commerce, Washington, I have
obtained figures that should interest Aus-
tralian woolgrowers, and which partly dis-
prove Bruce’s charge that . America will not
buy Australian wool.
Recent U.S. imports of wool from Aus-
tralia have been as follows:
1919- . . . . . . 28,326,000 lb.
1920- . . . . • • 34,991,200 „
1921- 46,778,400 „
1922- 60,234,760 „
1923- 31,990,700 „
1924- 38,501,400 „
1925- 61,318,000 „
U.S. production increased only from
225,696,0001 b. in 1923 to 272,453,0001 b. in
1927. From the United Kingdom the U.S.
imported in worsted and woollen fabrics and
carpets an additional 8,327,0001 b. of wool,
most of which would originate in Australia
or Maoriland. Rayon production from
cellulose has increased in U.S. from
15.000,0001 b. in 1921 to 98,000,0001 b. in 1928,
while imports of 12,733,5901 b. in the last
year have been added to local consumption;
hence the let-down in wool usage. Only
man has saved the situation at all; women
have given themselves up almost wholly to
silks, natural and artificial.
When you advocate that Australia manu-
facture more wool, you suggest the logical
action. It could be similarly applied to a
great many other things. But a recent
inspection of Los Angeles stores, where the
world’s best goods are sold, showed no Aus-
tralian products at all. There is a reason.
What is it? These stores have the products
of practically every other country in the
world. There is no prejudice. Why not
Australian? That, in view of your diffi-
culties—which I never forget are my home-
land’s difficulties—seems to me to be the
most important question confronting you.
Why . not courageously face the basic
facts of the wool problem? As I saw
conditions in a recent visit to my native
land, you can manufacture woollen pro-
ducts, but you cannot sell them in com-
petition with other countries. English
woollen goods undersell Australian goods
in Australia; and with your basic wage and
political sabotage of industry, profitable
woollen manufacture is loaded with knock-
out drops before the start. The foundation
is not factories alone but industrial con-
ditions under which goods can be produced
at a price the world will pay—Yours, etc.,
D. H. Rundle (Whittier, California).
4
Free Mallee Farms.
Dear Bulletin, —Production, as you prop-
erly insist, being Australia’s great need, I
would go further than James Edmond, who
lately advocated that every Mallee settler
should be given the deeds of his farm —
with certain restrictions and reservations,
of course. I can’t imagine anything short
of actual desert that is more useless than
a tract of virgin Mallee. It remains quite
valueless until a settler’s toil makes it into
a farm.
But before we start to give away new
areas I’d like to see a far more drastic
weeding-out, of applicants. It is no good
handing this class of country to men who
lack experience in its conditions. I was
one of the original settlers in the
Hundred of Hooper, near Tailem Bend
(S.A.). By 1922—10 years after the land
was allotted—there were only three of us
original settlers left; the others had all
been beaten. On one farm five men went
broke. Yet to-day the farmers on this area
are doing from well to fairly well, and have
proved that the district is all right.
Further, the very minimum of time neces-
sary to bring a Mallee farm to the stage
where it earns anything like a profit is 10
years. This being the case, a settler should
have freedom from land- and income-tax
during that period. This will cost the
country nothing out of pocket: it will
merely not receive for 10 years what it has
never received. Every penny which can be
spared should go into indispensable im-
provements like fences and buildings; if
a good crop is secured, it should all be
available to go back into the farm. —Yours,
etc., Lucerne Flea.


From England to Australia
a
MATO
Chichester used
SHELL Oil & SPIRIL
POLITICAL
POINTS
Mr. Speaker was in his place when the
N.S.W. Leg. Assembly returned to business,
last week. A
serious illness
prevented him
from riding on
the whirlwind
and trying to
direct the
storm during
the latter part
of 1929. Hon.
members beam-
ed on him and
o n “D a d”
W earn e, of
Barwon, an-
o.t her con-
valescent ; and
the spirit of
harmony was
so general
that even
Lang and
N.S. W. Speaker Levy
Bavin suspended their feud, while no-
body had to be “named.” But before long
“Alphabetical” Reid, of Manly, was bellow-
ing that a couple of Labor members “con-
sorted with criminals in the Domain”; and
the House felt that it had done with senti-
ment and was living up to its grand old
traditions once more.
Australian securities recovered a little
from the slump in London when Scullin and
Theodore issued their joint statement that
failure to pay the public creditor is an un-
thinkable thing, and when the news arrived
that the Commonwealth Bank is shipping
abroad another £7,000,000 of the gold re-
serves. The British press is anxious to make
the best of any favorable symptoms; a crash
in Australian securities held in Britain
might mean that 600 million pounds’ worth
of paper would become worth 100 millions
or so. But that doesn’t involve any tendency
to resume loaning on the scale of £36,000,000
per annum, though it may be necessary to
throw an occasional sprat to revive the
mackerel.
In 1907 there was one hotel in Yic. for
every 360 people. In 1928, thanks to the
great work of the Licenses Reduction Board,
there was one for every 970. Prosecutions
for drunkenness declined by half over the
same .period. Judging by the position to-day
in “dry” America, Vic. Prohibitionists are
really Pro-hic-itionists.
Perth Chamber of Commerce has made the
too-frequent wail that the Westralian gold-
mining industry is oppressed by the duty on
imported mining machinery. Westralia paid
£4854 in duties on mining
machinery in 1927-28, which
was a little over 2d. per in-
habitant. The State re-
ceived from the Common-
wealth during the same year
£783,286, or nearly £2 a
head.
The S. Aus. Cockies are
being angrily accused by the
Butler Government of incon-
sistency ; but they are at
least consistent in it. At the
1924 State election they
worked in with the Labor
party and helped to put it in.
By 1927 they had reached an
understanding with the Lib-
erals. and a Lib.-Cocky Gov-
ernment arrived. Then they
quarrelled among themselves '
and with the Libs, as well,
and the old friendliness with
Labor has been restored. One
possible result is the unseat-
ing of Butler Jby a Labor-sup-
ported Agrarian in Woo-
roora, where two Libs, and
a Cocky won last time, the
Premier coming second.
The importing gentlemen
who write to the papers
signing themselves “Penni-
less Farmer” and the like
blame Protection for the rise
in the price of corn- and fiour-
sacks. These articles have
always been on the free list.
So have receptacles for bran,
chaff, compressed fodder,
potatoes, onions, coal, ore
and wool. Australia sent
away over £4,000,000 last
year to pay for these im-
ports, about £3,999.999 being
spent on coolie-made goods.
The latest Bulletin fore-
cast from Maoriland is that
Coates is getting ready to
resume office. lOU Ward,
who( came back on the
strength of a promise to produce 70
millions of loan money without adding a
penny to the people’s taxes, has failed to
provide the gold, and Joseph’s bad old habit
of losing his party is beginning to show itself
again: in the old days the majority which
Seddon left him was turned into a minority
in five years. As a party leader the nowa-
days very forgetful old baronet hasn’t im-
proved at all.
A big feature of the Newcastle shindy
is the loss of the foreign export trade in coal.
This trade brought into the country £980,254
in the really good year 1926-27. In the
same year Australia sent £9,159,286 out of
the country to pay for U.S. motor vehicles
alone.
The Naval Conference takes new shapes
and colors almost daily, but one or two
things stand out conspicuously. First,'
Uncle Hoover demanded that the U.S.A.
should have as much sea-power as the
British Empire has. It might be a
point of dignity, but Britain would be
starved out by three months’ complete block-
ade, while 300 years of that sort of thing
wouldn’t deprive Uncle of a single one of
life’s essentials, so it isn’t a matter of neces-
sity. But the latest complications reveal
that Uncle wants a slight superiority. In
case of war, J. Bull, after leaving the mini-
mum of vessels to protect his food supplies,
would have so little available to defend the
empire that his only hope would lie in his
enemy’s incapacity.
The proposal now is to permit submarines,
but only on condition that their owners use
them with extreme politeness. A 1907
Peace Conference expressly banned the use
of poison gas, bombardments by aircraft of
open towns and attacks- on merchantmen
by submarines, and they were all happening
eight years afterward.
Queensland sticks to the policy of cutting
up stations as the leases fall in and calling
the process “homestead selection.” An effort
is now being made to induce settlement on
28-year leaseholds around Longreach and
Winton. It isn’t exactly close settlement,
the areas being about 25,009 acres, but it
is close enough. Only persons who can show
the necessary experience and the possession
of. reasonable capital need apply. The suc-
cessful applicant has to stock liis property
with his own jumbucks. The person who
has no jumbucks can work for the person
who possesses jumbucks till lie is able to
acquire jumbucks of his own. Which, after
all, is a very sensible thing for him to do.
F. M. FORDE, the only
Queenslander in the
Commonwealth Minis-
try.
The building of Vic. State schools out of
loan money has come to a sudden stop. One
result is a report from every metropolitan
high school, save one, that it lias crammed
in 50 or so more pupils than the existing
accommodation warrants and turned hun-
dreds away. These poor youngsters get it
coming and going. They are denied higher
education now, and when they grow up
they’ll have to help to pay for the schools
they couldn't use.
Americans are erecting an oil depot at
Riau, a collection of small,
fiat islands between Sum-
atra and the Malay Archi-
pelago. and it has been
stupidly suggested that this
constitutes a threat to the
Singapore Base. If the
Americans wanted to use
Riau for offensive purposes
they would have to go to war
with Holland, and Holland
regards the Base as being as
much for the defence of the
Dutch East Indies as the
British Empire. The big-
gest threat to the Base is
the present British Govern-
ment.
Exports are so far behind
requirements and imports
and payments abroad are so
much in excess of our means
that 100 Australian pounds
paid in in Sydney will now
buy only £96 17s. 6d. in
London: the rate was
altered to that figure at the
week-end. It is rough on
Australian manufacturers
who have to draw any part
of their raw material from
abroad; but it is a fine thing
for the Australian producer
who gets paid in London for
his wool or his wheat or his
butter.
Australia is due for a
census in 1931, and the backs
of the census papers are
to be hired out as advertis-
ing space. This looks undig-
nified and an acknowledg-
ment of grinding poverty.
It would be better to make
the available space a vehicle
for valuable information.
The “Official Year-Book”
contains seven maps which
everybody ought to see.
They show the area of the
continent occupied by wheat,
by sheep, by cattle, by human beings,
the area with a rainfall, the artesian
basins, and the railways. Any intelligent
person who saw these maps all at once would
be filled with surprising knowledge. They
would cost hardly anything to reproduce,
and they would advertise a fine Government
publication.
A homeless little joke which can’t get a
hearing amid the din of war is Hughes’s “Aus-
tralian” party. William and a pair of faith-
ful followers, members Maxwell and Marks,
hold occasional meetings and say monoton-
ously that their crowd offers an alternative
to Red Laborism and machine-made Nation-
alism. That is really all. When Scullin and
Theodore told the British nation that Aus-
tralia won’t default Hughes hastened to add
his assurance, but nobody seemed to take
notice. Windeyer, of the “People’s” party,
another imperceptible organisation which
joined Hughes on conditions, describes the
“Australian” push as merely one more poli-
tical machine. But it is hardly big enough
to be a machine. It might be a respectable
toothpick.
It was Theodore’s turn at the week-end
to stand up to the nasty little tyrants of the
Sydney Labor executive; and he did it pro-
perly. His Government was ordered to seize
three northern coalmines and work them at
A.L.P. rates, the taxpayers to meet all
losses; to “disband” the State police on the
northern coalfields; to pay the basic wage
to all idle coalminers; to prosecute Premier
Bavin and his Minister of Mines; and to
send Theodore and other Ministers to a so-
called metropolitan conference to .say that
all these instructions would be humbly
obeyed. The Treasurer was present, but in-
stead of signifying his wormlike acceptance
of the ultimatum he announced with cold
contempt that the Government flatly rejected
every article of it, “and will not submit to
non-Parliamentary dictation nor allow its
authority to be usurped by anybody.” Then
there was a dazed silence, followed by the
rustle of Red tails going down.
Sydney is paying a lot more for its
Harbor Bridge than most of it thinks. When
the big ferry co. woke up to the fact that
some of its boats might be only scrap-iron
after the bridge was built, it set to work to
repay itself what these ships cost; it reckoned
the whole boiling wouldn’t be worth more
than £60,550 by the end of 1931. In the two
years past it has therefore saved up over
£225,000 (including a bit got from resump-
tions), and it expects to rake in another
£75,000 or more a year for the next. two
years in addition to its dividend. That is all
right: what doesn’t look quite so right is
that after the public has thus paid for the
ships, the co. will continue to own them.
The Slangwhang Opposition says it will
cost £70,000 to take a referendum re the
amendment of the N.S.W. Upper House,
but the Government says the work can be
done for £lO,OOO or £15,000 less. The object
is to establish a Council which won’t be
based on property, and which won’t be of the
nominee order and capable of being swamped
by more or less disreputable party hacks.
If the people say yes, and their verdict
proves incapable of being swamped by the
next Communist Ministry, the money won’t
be ill-spent. A referendum is a better in-
vestment than an additional scrap of State
railway of the modern type. The taking of
it supplies a certain amount of employment,
unlike strike doles, which are spent in pre-
venting employment. It isn’t paid for out
of loans. And when it is finished the expendi-
ture is finished also. People don’t run
trains on the corpse at a loss of over £17.000
a year, as is the case with the Clydc-Carl-
ingford line, which cost £66,000 in 1901, and
isn’t paid for yet.
It is doubtful whether the Vic. Uppish
House will accept unemployment insurance,
no matter how the Hogans may tone it down.
The dole is only to be paid as a last resource
(it is proposed to utilise the contributions
from employers, employees and the State
mainly to provide -work), but the non-Labov
members in the Council have a holy horror
of any more unearned allowances. Still, men
who seek work in vain can’t be allowed to
starve, and a scheme to which they have
themselves contributed will at least help
them to preserve their self-respect.
Premier Moore has caused a shudder to go
through the overloaded Queensland depart-
ments by announcing that “overlapping is
prevalent,” particularly in country districts,
and that “the State cannot afford to keep men
with nothing to do.” Several industrial
inspectors have been retrenched for a start.
In departments other than Railways, Police
and Education, 6146 officers were employed
in Queensland in 1928 (population that
year, 888,000), as against 4062 in Victoria
(pop., 1,222,000) and 1776 in South Aus.
(pop., 458,000). On the 3ft. 6in. Govern-
ment railways, 22,516 Queenslanders manned
6344 miles of line while 8976 Westralians
manned 3976 miles. The Westralian system
paid its way.
The “S. M. Herald” had a large, impera-
tive heading on the leader page—“ Notable
Producer : Arrives in Sydney.” More effects
of Scullin’s tariff, you said, as you sat down
to read about some great manufacturer or
other who had come to put up a factory
in these parts. But you soon discovered
that that isn’t what a real producer is in
Australia these days. This chap had come
to put on some new show for an American
actor.
Gordon Webber,
Assistant Minister for
Labor, will probably
handle the Greater
Melbourne Bill for
the Hogans in Vic.
Assembly. If Hogan
hasn’t gone back on
the proposals he out-i
lined three years ago,
the bill will aim at
abolishing the existing
26 metropolitan muni-
cipal councils and the
Metropolitan Board of
Works, and substitut-
ing a council elected
on an adult-suffrage
basis. Tlie measure
may get through one
House.
Having trampled
down the grass on the
Yarra Bank, open-air
orators in Melbourne
are asking Minister
Bailey for permission
to roar in the Ex-
hibition Gardens. The
Gordon Webber.
gardens consist of
trim lawns and well-tended flower-beds,
maintained at considerable cost by the
general public. They comprise one of
the few oases of peace and rest where
citizens can forget the troubles of the week
on Sundays. Political spouters are entitled
to some location where they can let their
steam off, but not to the Exhibition Gardens.
Ramsay MacDonald has added £30,000,000
a year to the annual bill for doles. He has
taken his Bible oath to permit no further
Protection of British industry; in fact, he
promised to abolish the Protection which
exists, though this oath isn’t likely to materi-
alise. The unemployed are increasing, and
the revenue is falling, and the prospect of
new taxation is rising. So Mac wants to
shave all he can off the defences regardless of
risks. In the process he isn’t making
Britain any better place in which to float
an Australian loan.
THE PROPHET.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
“After Mr. Hughes had expounded the principles of
his new ‘Australian party’ at Hawthorn (Vic.) town
hall, Mr. Walter Marks, M.H.R., expressed the opinion
that never again would the Nationalists win a
Federal or State election.”
Shade of Poe’s historic raven! Are you
list’ning, Mr. Bavin?
Do you feel as Paddy Slavin felt when
Jackson laid him low?
For Sir Oracle has spoken, and the things
his words betoken
Well may leave your spirits broken,
Latham, Butler, Moore and co.
Labor’s forces oft you’ve given battle and
before you driven,
Outed, routed, shattered, riven, stricken
shrewdly, smitten sore.
But the future —Marks peers through it like
a razor severs suet,
And he certifies you’ll do it
Nevermore!
Hear him boldly advertising that another
sun is rising—•
Verily it seems surprising any should have
thought it set!
It’s a tenner to a tanner folk will flock to
Billy’s banner
With a will and in a manner to make
Nationalists sweat.
From a brace of parties booted forth a third
he’s instituted,
And one gathers that he’s suited with a
staff of kindred views,
Men whose creed is, inter alia, nobody can
save Australia
Bar that never-fading dahlia,
Billy Hughes.
Labor’s erstwhile sturdy yeoman, National-
ists’ pride and show-man,
In the role of noblest Roman once again
he’d strut and roar;
Loath to quit the stage as Melba —or
Napoleon after Elba—
Disregarding what befell Bavaria’s king
and dozens more.
There’s a patriot heart a-beating, and it sends
the land a greeting,
Bent on history repeating, d la Tommy
Bent and Parkes.
Though the sceptical may scoff it will be
hard to put him off it....
And, remember, he’s a prophet,
Wally Marks.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


"lorvi Smiths wipe declares him black
Proceeding to buv food he is robbed.
The police declare him black
AND REFUSE TO INTERFERE .
TO THE UNDERGROUND
TRIES
ST Peter /£
THE END.
He starves,, but the doctor
WILL. DO NOTHING*
And has no better
LUCK WITH the DEVIL.
THE ALL BLACKS.
“Men on the Northern Coalfields, who have been declaring papers, parsons, storekeepers, police, pubs and most other things black, are speculating as to what might be
the effect if the practice were continued after the strike.”
Poverty
Point
“C. J.8.W.”: The day after the big event
in 1915 a cinema bill at Deniliquin (N.S.W.)
included “The Race for the Melbourne Cup.”
The large section of Riverina that turned up
to see it would have gladdened any pro-
ducer. The screening was of the 1913 Cup.
“Oh-ho”: Floating around Brisbane lately
have been a variety of superstitious yarns
about Somerset Maugham’s “Rain,” with men-
tion of a hoodoo which is alleged to have re-
lentlessly pursued every band of mummers
that ever produced it. The Yvonne Banvard
co. was billed to play it at the Royal, and
when the Saturday-night doors remained
closed pressmen were informed that several
of the players had been unable to learn their
parts in time. The furphy was thereupon
dished up with some new versions of the
hoodoo. Back stage, however, chief concern
was for the ghost, which had failed to walk
on the initial Friday, three weeks previously,
and still lay somewhere about, inert and hope-
less. The Royal has remained closed despite
predictions of a speedy re-opening.
“Cine Ma”: There are still a few silent
houses in Melbourne, and one in Bourke-
street was showing Rudolph Valentino
recently. I dropped in and found the small
audience entirely female, although before
the sainted hero passed away men were as
interested in him as women. Is this another
aspect of our ingrained habit of leaving
funeral proceedings to the male and the sub-
sequent attention to the grave to females?
“Strict Veg.”: Baird’s television, which
was privately demonstrated to The Bulle-
tin in Melbourne some months ago, has
gone on to the regular broadcasting pro-
gramme in England. For half an hour every
day listeners owning a televisor may not only
hear a singer hut see his or her physiognomy
in a 10-inch glass and more or less darkly.
The results have been somewhat precarious,
the faces coming through clearly sometimes
and at others sadly distorted. Also few
people own the apparatus, though the com-
pany hopes that the knowledge that there is
a daily broadcast will lead to the television
vice or habit becoming chronic.
“S.T.S.” : According to the Sundry Show-
man, it is a common practice to make first
nights mere glorified dress-rehearsals. If so,
it is a throw-back to the bad old days. About
IS9O the papers used to say cheerfully of
any new play that it would he splendid when
it had got over “the hitches inseparable from
a first performance.” Robert Brough took
a real pride in abolishing all that. “The
public don’t pay to see a dress rehearsal,”
he said to me —and doubtless to everybody
else; anyway, under him, first-nights took a
big upward bound.
“Cauboy”: Owing to unavoidable over-
lapping, three feminine headliners were
placed on the same bill at Melbourne Tivoli
recently. The Tiv. had then three star
dressing-rooms, numbered one, two and three,
and each exactly alike. Early one morning
one of the stars burst into director Alec
Isaacson’s office, and after a display of in-
dignation which would have fitted a Duse
in a tragic role, explained that she had been
foully wronged by being put in dressing-
room two, and her contract was thus auto-
matically annulled. A few moments later a
second star broke in, her complaint being
that she had been put in Number Three, and
that was the end of everything as far as she
was concerned. Edging the ladies out with
a promise that their grievance would he re-
moved, Isaacson remained bowed in thought
over his blotting-pad for half an hour. Then
he sought a scene-painter. When the galaxy
of talent turned up for the afternoon show
they found each of the dressing-rooms num-
bered “One.” All expressed themselves com-
pletely satisfied.
“Hamfat” : Raymond Longford,_ just back
after a search for film markets in Britain
and Europe, holds the record for Australian
picture-making. His experience goes_ back
to when there were a dozen companies _ in
Sydney alone making movies for Australian
picture-houses. Longford worked for Spen-
cer’s, the chief of them. When the Ameri-
can combine got busy Spencer’s stood out
for a while but finally caved in. Longford
has been a champion of the home-made pic-
ture industry ever since.
“Lights”: “Say Bo,” with his “movie
people are making sensational reductions in
admission fees” (B. 5/2/’3O), raises my
ire. The people running my favorite pic-
ture theatre bought whole pages of Mel-
bourne “Herald” to announce their “sensa-
tional cuts” ; but I have still to pay the old
admission price—more, in fact, since the
new State tax is in operation. The Satur-
day night fee to the stalls, for example, is
still 2s. sid., plus 2-Jd. tax, making a total
of 2s. Bd., which is too much. The fact is
that only the day prices have been slightly
reduced.
“Three Ages”: Papa Moscovitch wanted
Nat Madison to join the cast of “Jew Suss”
in New York, but Nat was in the thick of
his second picture in Hollywood with Gloria
Swanson. His first talkie appearance was in
“Honolulu.”
“S.”: Undeterred by his experience under
the Fuller mantle, Gregan McMahon has
formed a theatrical society of his own, has
secured Melbourne Bijou, his previous stamp-
ing-ground, and will shortly produce a series
of plays that can definitely be classed
amongst the intellectual. O’Casey’s “The
Plough and the Stars,” “The Trojan Women”
of Euripides, Van Druten’s “After All” and
Robin Millar’s “Thunder in the Air” are
some of them. McMahon is calling for 500
associate members before Feb. 28, the sub-
scription to be a guinea or 16s. for eight
seats for four seasons at two plays a season.
What with the Repertory Society and half
a dozen other organisations battling for sub-
scribers there should be a price war soon
among the promoters of the intellectual
drama.
“Hamfat”; Moscovitch, who has made a
hit with “Jew Suss,” J. C. Williamsons
initial New York production, is to bring his
piece and the company to Australia. Mos-
covitch started in Russia, toured Western
Europe as a Yiddish actor, and in that capa-
city appeared in London. There someone
suggested him as a potential Shylock; he
studied the part in English in a week and
scored.
“Cine Ma”: Sclioedsack, the maker with
Cooper of that epic of the Siamese jungle
“Chang,” is at present in the Sumatran
jungle engaged on working the Battaks into
a film yarn. When the Dutch authorities
are not looking the Battaks practise probably
the most primitive method of burial in the
world. A person who has lived beyond his
time is obliged to hang by his hands from
a tree. When he fall's he is eaten, the Bat-
taks maintaining that to provide a square
meal for one’s descendants is the highest
possible expression of the divine principle
of Service.
“Mono-mark” : The German showboat, if it
comes here, won’t be the first Australia has
had. One sailed the Darling about 30 years
ago under the joint management of J. B.
South and Edmund Duggan. The company
played the settlements along the river, and
the show was held on the boat when no
building was available. Duggan is now with
Bill Anderson.
“Tee Essbie”; Leo Darnton, of Gilbert and
Sullivan roles and Red Shadow with the
touring “Desert Song” company, besides hav-
ing a good voice and knowing how to use
it, is a fair sportsman. As a boy in England
he won the public schools’ light-heavyweight
boxing championship. In 1908 he won the five-
miles’ open swimming championship of Eng-
land, and in the same year represented Eng-
land as a boxer and swimmer at the Olym-
piad. In 1909 he attempted to swim the
English Channel, but was unsuccessful after
battling against currents for 19 hours. < He
has also won several billiard championships.
“L.H.P.”: The stars our fathers applauded
introduced few novelties to Sydney. They
stuck mostly to the Bard and stock pieces
like “Camille” and “East Lynne.” Mrs.
Scott Siddons in 1878 gave “The Scarlet
Letter” as the only novelty of a lengthy
season of stock, and Bandmann’s only novel-
ties in three long seasons were “ ’Twixt Axe
and Crown” and “Narcisse.” Louise Pom-
eroy contributed “Retribution,” an Ameri-
can society play, and appeared in 30 stock
characters. George Chaplin presented “Rose-
dale,” and George Tithoradge, on his open-
ing “star” season at Sydney Royal in 1879.
gave Tom Taylor’s “Clancarty.” Ada Ward
gave “Amy Robsart.” a stage version of
“Kenilworth,” and rung the changes on
stock. Even the muoh-vnunted Garner and
Lyster London Comedy Co., in 1880, could
squeeze into a repertoire of 30 pieces only
“Ours,” “Friends,” “Betsy” and “The Upper
Crust” as novelties. The best deal in the
way of new plays came from the Lingards.
They unwound a score or so.
“Lond.”: Leading- critic Yernon Wood-
house says that the reason variety shows
and music-halls are going down before the
movies is simply that the great artists .of
old time are not now to be found. Leaving
out Chevalier and Sandow and Cinquevalli,
he declares that he has seen on one pro-
gramme Dan Leno, Marie Lloyd, Vesta
Tilley, Eugene Stratton, R. G. Knowles and
Harry Randall. The only modern he puts in
that class is Billy Bennett. Just one item he
finds incomparably better than of old —the
dancing; and this although in modern
orchestras, mostly Yankee, “nasty noises
take the place of music.”
“Cine Ma”: There was a great outcry
amongst musical highbrows when it was
discovered that “Yes, We Have No Bananas”
was “I Dreamt that I Dwelt” in ragtime;
but the process still goes on. The opening
bars of “Sonny Boy,” A 1 Jolson’s oleaginous
ditty, were lifted from the Magnificat. “Sing-
ing in the Rain” is merely one of the five-
finger exercises beginners hav,e been thump-
ing out on suburban pianos since suburban
pianos were invented.
“Fade Out”: Australian tenor Allan
Priora has been signed up in Hollywood to
sing in talking pictures. His screen name
will be Allan Prior. Priora recently went
back to the States after appearing on Hoyt’s
circuit here. It is not his first talkie work;
he has been in Vitaphone shorts, and his
fine tenor voice records uncommonly well.
“Hamfat”; The Shakspearean offensive
which breaks out every year at Sydney Con-
servatorium is this year in the efficient
hands of Arthur Greenaway. A week in
the beginning of March will set the ball roll-
ing with “The Merchant of Venice”; “Ham-
let” is to follow —signs that tell the enlight-
ened that these plays are to worry the minds
of scholars preparing for the late-in-the-
year examinations. Greenaway, who is
soaked in Shakspeare, has given his Shylock
in a remarkable number of tours. He was
through Great Britain and U.S.A. as well as
Australia with it.
“T.P.”: Scathing Bulletin comments on
the contemptuous treatment by big movie
houses of compulsory Australian pictures
have had salutary effects. A one-time offend-
ing house in Melbourne the other night gave
pride of place to a magnificent series on
Rockhampton and surroundings. At the
conclusion of the show the canned hurdy-
gurdy ground out “God Save.” _ Evidently
Hollywood and its reps, are taking notice.
“L.H.P.” : “Journey’s End” is not the first
all-male play seen in Sydney. In 1917 at
the Playhouse the three-acter “The New Sin,”
by Basil Hastings, had Harry Roberts. Fred
Ward, Frank Hawthorne, Herbert Leigh,
Claude Turton and D. Drayton for its cast.
There was woman in the bill, however,
As the play was a trifle short, dainty Josie
Jackson opened proceedings with “a medley
of mirth and song,”


mm
:
'
m
m
:-w-
-m
m
MORE
and belter"
n
$ u 23
16
(hid ISfbrV
also_ irv tins
of 50 C WO
“COUNTRY LIFE” the biggest cigarette
success in a decade selling far faster than any
cigarette in its class. Why ? Better quality plus
extra value-that’s the reason.
Tens of thousands of Australian smokers have
found that the 23 “COUNTRY LIFE” Cigarettes
they get for the usual 1/6 are really better cigarettes
c-well made, evenly packed, refreshingly different,—.
and “three more for ij6’’!
Country life
CORK-TIPPED VIRGIN
CIGARETTE
< </>
Made in Your Own Country at tide
Garden Factory Raleigh Park
-by W. D. & H. 0. Wills,
( Australia) Ltd.)


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Pisk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etr.
VISITORS TO EUROPE f
Take the opportunity of attending the
PARIS
TRADE FAIR
May 17 to June 1, 1930.
This comprehensive Annual Exhibition is international
character and most interesting.
Full particulars from
THE FRENCH TRADE COMMISSIONER,
Kembla Buildings, Margaret Street, Sydney.
When gou come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher’s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike,
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
f * ed and
Tariff
if desired
Special tariff or inclusive terras.
HOTEL
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel,” Svdney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Melbourne is becoming over-run with
knights in almost every walk of life, but in
the State Parliament only the average of
recent years is being maintained. There are
three in the Assembly (Speacock, McPherson
and Argyle) and one in the Council (Frank
Clarke).
Sydney has had four R.C. Archbishops,
and three of them have lived to be 80 or
more. Dr. Kelly joined his octogenarian pre-
decessors Polding and Moran last week. Car-
dinal Moran died at 81; Dr. Polding lived on
to 83.
Wood Jones, the brilliant anatomist, who
has been re-acquired for Melbourne Univer-
sity, is no stranger to Australia. He visited
it as a ship’s doctor aboard the Eastern
Extension Cable Co.’s repairing ship Restorer
in 1906, and he served a term at Adelaide
University from 1919 to 1927 as Professor of
Anatomy; then he went to Honolulu to
measure the hybrid skulls of one of the most
muddled ethnic mixtures in the world. He
utilised a term as doctor at the cable station
at Cocos Island _to study coral formations
and write the history of the famous Iloss
family.
Davie Watkins must often feel lonely
these times. Of all the men who formed the
N.S.W. Labor
party of 1891
only he is left
within the
Labor ranks;
there isn’t an-
other left even
in the House
of Reps., of
which Davie
was one of the
original mem-
bers (1901)
So he is a sole
survivor twice
over. A more
brilliant mac.
would pro-
bably have
gone a dozen
times, seeing
that his elec-
torate is the
Newcastle
storm - centre;
but when he
wasn’t en-
dowed with the
capacity for
making
enemies,
Nature tried
to atone for it
by giving him
a tremendous
capacity for
making
friends. So
DAVIE WATKINs.
now Davie Watkins, born in Wallsencl nre
sently miners’ secretary at Wallsend ha,
become a settled institution, like NobbVs
and the Ten Commandments. " s
Peter Whitington, of Adelaide ,t;n •
splendid health at 85, was for 62 years in
S. Aus. Public Service ioinino- o 0 i 7
f S 18 ?ohv fTrf as Commissioner uS
from 1907 to 1912 and for the nm ift “
as Commissioner of Charitable Funds PeteFs
father, W. S. Whitington, imported S.A. s
first thoroughbred horse from the Cold Land;
a brother was the late A. O. Whitington, sec.
of S.A. Jockey Club for many years, and
another brother is the archdeacon, late of
Hobart, who wrote the “Life of Augustus
Short,” Adelaide’s first bishop. Peter’s eldest
son, Ernest, conducts one of the most interest-
ing pages of the new “Register” under the
pen-name of Rufus.
W. T. Appleton, for many years managing
director of the big shipping co. of Huddart
Parker, is dead, aged
70. Parker wasn’t a
shipping man: he was
a storekeeper in early
Geelong, who got the
agency for the steamer
Express, brought to
Australia by the ori-
ginal Howard Smith.
Later John Traill be-
came manager of this
agency; and later still
young Willi a m
Thomas Appleton mar-
ried John Traill’s
daughter. The. Hud-
darts came in in this
way. Capt. Peter
Huddart arrived from
the north of England,
where they think coal,
and started to supply
the goods first to Gee-
long and then (with
James his nephew) to
Ballarat. The two
concerns ran alongside
one another for many
years, and' it wasn’t
till the late ’seventies
they combined. Mr.
Appleton, besides be-
ing managing director
of Huddart Parkers,
was an almost per-
petual chairman of the
Inter-State Owners’
Association.
Resident- magistrate
Keelan, who recently
retired from the
Papuan magistracy, is
an old soldier who saw
service under Kit-
chener. But for the
consequences of shell
shock in the Great War his official term might
have lasted even longer. He was one of the
early magistrates, and as a patrol officer map-
ped a lot of the country. Few men knew the
natives better. Keelan once on furlough took
a stalwart Oriekava savage to Brisbane, and
found the primitive man unimpressed by
the marvels of civilisation. “What you think
him longa puff-puff, Baura?” said the
cicerone, pointing to a railway train. “Oh,”
replied Baura disdainfully, “steamer belonga
bush.” Mrs. Keelan put in years with her
husband in the Papuan wilds, and has just
published a book of her experiences entitled
“In the Land of the Doheri.”
Harry Werribee Staughton, dead in Mel-
bourne at 81, was a member of the sturdy
squatter family that settled at Melton (on
the line to Bacchus Marsh) 90 years ago.
He had outlived most of his early contem-
poraries, but John Grice, Agar Wynne and
C. A. Topp, three of his schoolmates at
Melb. Grammar when Dr. Bromby wielded
the rod, are still on deck. Two of
the Staughton clan, Sam the elder and Sam
the younger, were in Vic. Assembly; both
died early in the century. - Harry stuck
to sheep-breeding.
Barrister Eager, who won the East Yarra
seat in the Vic. Leg. Council, will have a
tenure of four years and four months. George
Swinburne and R. G. Menzies contested the
constituency in 1928. The former won, but
died a few months later. Then Menzies got
in, but resigned last November and secured
an Assembly seat. Voting for the Land-
lords is not compulsory, and on this occasion
hardly 30 p.c. of the electors w T ent to the poll.
General Sir H'enry Hodgson, whose death
in London at 61 is reported, would have
been the first to contradict the statement
cabled from London and published in most
Australian dailies that he shared with
Allenby the credit for the Palestine cam-
paign with Australian troops. As C.O. of
the Australian Mounted Division he was,
with Generals Barrow and Mac Andrew of
the Fourth and Fifth Cavalry Divisions, a
subordinate of that great Australian leader
Chauvel, who alone directed the operations
which ended in the capture or destruction of
the Turkish forces in Palestine and Syria.
An Eton and Sandhurst man, Hodgson began
liis soldiering in the 15tli Hussars in 1889,
and reached Major-General’s rank on taking
over the Australian Division in 1917.
“M. 8.”: In the last year of the war and
as secretary of a branch of the Australian
Comforts Fund, I wrote to G. B. Shaw among
other notabilities, asking for his opinion of the
Australian soldier “to augment our funds.”
He returned my letter with the following-
addendum : “I have not noticed anything
W. T. APPLETON.
particular about the Australian soldier ex-
cept his hat. G. Bernard Shaw, 25/4/’lS.’
Incidentally, we made hundreds of pounds out
of the sale of letters we received.
Vic. Parliament has seven lawyers in its
ranks. The Assembly quartette consists of
Menzies, K.C., and Macfarlan, on the Oppo-
sition side, and Laborites Slater (Attorney-
General) and Blackburn. The Council’s
trio (all Nats.) are H. I. Cohen, C. H. A.
Eager and Harold Cohen. The last-named
and Blackburn are solicitors.
“C.A.8.”: the death
of Mrs. ' Elizabeth
Walsh, of Queanbeyan,
severs a link with the
early days of the Fed-
eral Territory. Her
father, William Sul-
livan, arrived from
Ireland in 1860 and
settled on the Spring-
bank estate, which he
eventually purchased.
A portion of the pro-
perty is now embraced
in the Canberra city
area.
William Shak.s-
peare, just dead in
Adelaide, brought his
mighty name from
England as a five-year-
old in 1849. For half
a century, till his re-
tirement in 1923, he
was inspecting vehicles,
weights and measures
and theatres for the
Adelaide. City Council.
In private life he was
a stalwart Anglican
church official
Lord Latymer, who
has been having a
glimpse at Australia
on his way to heavy-
weight fishing in
M.L., is only the sixth
holder of a title that
goes back to 1341. It
“slept” for over 300
years, before being re-
vived in favor of the
fifth baron in 1912.
The present peer -was
born Money-Coutts,
of the famous bank-
mg family, and is a great-nepliew of Baroness
Burdett-Coutts, that well-known figure of the
Victorian era.
Monsignor Terence McGuire takes the
new R.C. diocese of Townsville (Q.),
and Father James O’Collins fills the
vacancy which lias existed at Geraldton
(W.A.) since 1926. Both were born in Aus-
tralia, the former at Junee (N.S.W.) in
1881, the latter in Victoria in 1892, and both
went from St. Patrick’s. Manly, to
the Propaganda College at Rome. At 38
O’Cbllins is the youngest R.C. bishop in
Australia with the possible exception of Dr.
Norton, of Bathurst.
Hugh Baron Bignold, barrister, who died
in Sydney last month at nearly three-score,
was the son of an Indian Judge, and was
well enough equipped in the matter of ability
and industry to have made a success at the
Bar. But a certain nervousness and diffi-
dence handicapped him, and his literary
tastes interfered with his profession. He left
behind him a few rather dry legal publica-
tions and a collection of printed and un-
printed verse. His only son, also a barrister,
holds a position in one of the mandated ter-
ritories.
Laid down the reins last month, Mick
Fitzgerald, of Dunedin, the best-known whip
in the Shivery Isles. For years he ran a
livery-stable business and had driven almost
every oversea notable, from the present King
down to the Jubilee Plunger. A snappy
waggonette, glistening harness and four
prancing chestnuts in tandem ' swinging
through the city traffic, with Mick on
the box seat in belltopper and full livery,
was an inspiring sight 20 years ago. tie
will be remembered by thousands of Austra-
lians who visited the Dunedin and South
Seas Exhibition four years ago as the
driver of a team of six ponies and a minia-
ture coach.
There are few better-known men in Bris-
bane than Joe Kilroe, who has just re-
tired from the directorate of Finney Isles,
the big Queensland drapery firm. Tom
Finney, founder of the enterprise, was a big
man, and chose his floor-walkers, of whom
Kilroe was one, as Frederick the Great’s dad
chose his grenadiers. Promotion came
rapidly to the young Irishman, who rose
to partnership and a seat on the directorate
when the firm became a company. He will
now. be able to devote himself exclusively
to his real interest in life—the breeding of
Jersey cattle.
Malimood-al-Nokrashy, Minister for Com-
munications in the new Egyptian Govern-
ment, is probably the only Cabinet Minister
who has been tried for his life on a capital
charge. When Sir Lee Stack, Sirdar of
the Sudan, was butchered in Cairo by a gang
of assassins, Nokrashy, then Under-Secre-
tary for the Interior, and his chief, Ahmed
Maher, strained every nerve to burke in-
quiries into the crime. That they had good
reason for their attitude was revealed when
Shafik Mansoor, leader of the murderers,
made a full confession of his guilt and in-
cluded both Ahmed and Nokrashy as insti-
gators of the crime. Both were tried before
a court of two Egyptian Judges and an Eng-
lish one, Judge Kershaw. The Wafd, or
Zaghlul party, now again in power, put
such pressure on the two Gyppos that they
acquitted the accused by a majority verdict.
Kershaw resigned in protest, and tiie subse-
quent note from Lord Lloyd penetrated even
Zaghlul’s hide, with the result that Nokrashy
was shelved —only temporarily, as it now
appears.
William Angwin, Westralian Agent-Gen-
eral, is a shrewd and rather serious Cousin
Jack who came to Australia in the ’nine-
ties and never got far from Fremantle,
where he first landed. For a few years he
made wire mattresses, but politics,
first municipal, then Parliamentary, soon
attracted him, and he held an Assembly
seat for the seaport for 23 years. Cabinet
rank came his way very early ; he was an
honorary Minister in the very first Labor
Cabinet of all (1904-05). He owed his
London job partly to his reputation for
level-lieadedness, and partly because he was
the only prominent Laborite who was in
touch with England. He was the first man
Westralian Labor sent to the London office
from its own ranks.
The youngest of the triumvirate of Mac-
kenzies who helped to lay a sound square
Scottish foundation for the government of
M.L.- —Tammas of that ilk—has passed over
at 75. He was born in Auld Reekie, left it
early enough to be educated in Otago, and
after a colonial experience that embraced
everything from clerking and surveying to
bush-whacking landed in Parliament at 33.
More ambitious and less dour than Jock
or Roddy and a better diplomat than either,
he welcomed a chance to go to London as a
special commissioner on trade relations mid-
way in his political career, and he ended his
seven months of Priministership in 1912,
during which his party slid gracefully into
the grave, by accepting the job of High Com-
missioner in the Hub. He went there with
a firm conviction that the Maoriland pro-
pagator of mutton and lamb was being done
in the eye by the bad conspirators of Smith-
field, but beyond a few adjustments that
benefited both sides he didn’t make much im-
pression on the meat-dealers. He married a
Geelong girl, put in most of his infrequent
holidays exploring the almost uncharted
wilds of the southern rump of the Silvery
Isles, and died in possession of a seat in
the Top House and a knighthood.
People who knew N.S.W. Railway Com-
missioner Cleary’s dreadfdl habit of getting
to the heart of
things wondered
what would happen
when he reached
Dr. Bradfield,
popularly known
as the designer of
the Sydney Harbor
bridge and the
maker of the under-
ground railway.
Nobody in Sydney
has a “better
press” than Brad-
field ; yet there are
lots of men who
never have been
able to make up
their minds about
his real connection
with either bridge
or railway. Cleary
seems to have
helped them a little
so far as the rail-
way is concerned
by proposing Brad-
field’s retirement
from the service as
a matter of
economy; but of
course that isn’t
conclusive. Mean-
time Cleary is
going steadily
through the depart-
ment taking sound-
i n g s and doing
many things that
W. J. CLEARY.
greatly shock the old brass-liats of the
service.
The Earl of Clarendon is the G.-G. elect of
South Africa —a £10,000-a-year job which
British Labor must perforce go outside its
own ranks to fill. A mere 500 acres in Herts
and Warwickshire, including the ruins of
Kenilworth, is all the estate that goes with
the title nowadays. On the other hand the
family is rich in valuable paintings, Van-
dykes and Lelys among them, and Old Mas-
ters are much better investments than
landscape that is rented for a pound or
two an acre in Merrie England. The Earl
is 53.
THE SOLDIER AND THE STATESMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Foch’s biographer records that the French marshal
summed up Lloyd George in May, 1922, in the words:
‘T° him the vital point is to remain in power.
Nothing else is of importance.’ ”
Some burn with patriot ardor for the State,
Serve her with all their talents and their
zeal,
Self ever ready to subordinate
If only it advance their country’s weal.
And some stilt hold beliefs unfaltering,
Their eyes are ever set upon a goal;
And, come what may, unto their faith they
cling
As constant as the needle to the pole.
And some, the direst perils staunch to face,
Undaunted in their country’s darkest hour,
Still needs must make their summum bonum
—place;
The very breath within their nostrils —
power.
A sin to covet honor or to aim
As high as in the crowded years agone?
Nay—but to set the prize above the game.
None sees so clearly as the looker-on.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
THE USUAL PRICE.
YEABEL : “What would you give to have a complexion like Peggy’s?”
HILDA: “I don’t suppose they’d charge me any more than they charge her!”
“Jack Point”: The Australian, like the
Cockney, has a keen sense of topicality in his
wit and humor. A Mr. Ryder, from Colling-
wood, who is understood to have been ill-
used in the matter of selection for a team
to play croquet or some such game, was
invited to start a race at an evening motor-
cycle race-meeting in Brisbane. When he
appeared on the track he was handed the
pistol a formidable-looking affair. After
inspecting it carefully he turned to attend to
his duties As the pistol was raised an
admirer spoke up. “Now bring on your
selectors,” he shouted.
* * * *
“2nd Divvy” • The Deutsche Offizierbund
has notified British French and other offi-
cers’ associations that Remaique, of All
nniet” fame, “was never nearer the Western
S*t tha” i recruit dep6t.” The back area
which he was in was bombed in 1917, he
was hit, and he stayed in hospital till the
Armistice. The imaginative gentleman got
the material for his book from the wounded.
Colonel T I, C- Williams, D. 5.0., whom
every A.I.F. gunner knew personally or by
repute, arrived at this conclusion when All
Quiet” first arrived in Australia. No, sol-
dier saw so many remarkable sights, he
said to me. “Remarque has simply collected
a number of yarns, mostly untrue, and given
the world the worst of them.” The moment
this experienced front-liner offered his criti-
cism its justice became clear to me. I doubt
if anyone who saw more than a few weeks
front-line service could write a readable
account of the insane business at. all. lhe
long spells of boredom, the irritation engen-
dered by idiotic staff interferences (my bat-
tery once got an urgent demand for return
showing horses and mules, clipped and un-
dipped, together with manger return m the
middle of a “general shoot” by Fritz!), and
the recurrent periods of terror debarred any-
one from taking an objective view of the
proceedings. Remarque (whose real name
was Remark and who “obtained his commis-
sion and decorations from the Workers and
Soldiers’ Soviet after the war”) may never
have fought against us, but he has one dis-
tinction, anyhow, which no one can chal-
lenge. He lias managed to pull the leg of
the entire world.
* * * *
“Catchpenny” : Wollongbar (N.S.W.). saw
a bishop’s girdle used in an extraordinary
way when Dr. Ashton, of Grafton, visited
the place. As the Bishop was welcoming-
local Anglicans at the church door, a. lady
stepped on a snake and had her ankle. bitten.
The girdle was commissioned as a ligature
till medical help arrived. The cause of the
confusion got away in long grass in the
church precincts.
* * * *
“Hamer”: An old hat hung in his hair-
dressing saloon saved an acquaintance of
mine from controversies with a magistrate.
When the police arrived nobody took any
notice of this old lid; fortunately, for the
betting-slips were kept inside it. Once a
patron of the establishment took the old cady
in mistake for his own; but Shaveanbrushup
got it back.
* * * ‘4=
“Nikko”: For resource in time of tribu-
lation I name a lady who lived in our street.
She rented a cottage from the. wealthy Mrs.
Blank, and when there was a little matter of
£l4 rent between them Mrs. Blank sent the
bailiff along. The bailiff, an apologetic, gentle-
man, was received with a bright smile, and
a much-amused young woman explained
that he had come to. the wrong house. She
was, she informed him, Mrs. Blank herself,
and he was to go at once to a house in
Poplar-street, name and number given, and
establish himself there. The bailiff apolo-
gised profusely, fled to Poplar-street, found
the house open and took possession. When
three hours later the real Mrs. Blank walked
in and discovered him peacefully pursuing
his avocation the atmosphere grew warm
with revilement. A hasty rush to the other
place confirmed the worst fears of both;
the pleasant lady had departed, plus the con-
tents of the cottage. How and where she had
disposed of her possessions remains a
mystery, but sympathetic neighbors are
suspected as accomplices.
* * * *
“P.X.”: There never has been any love
lost between the Browns and the other New-
castle coalowners. It is the nearest approach
to an hereditary vendetta Australia knows.
In the days when coal wasn’t considered of
much consequence the A. A. (Australian Agri-
cultural) Co., which had tremendously aris-
tocratic connections and represented all that
was sleekest and fattest in the community,
set up a claim to a coalmining monopoly in
Australia. Its charter, moreover, gave it
some sort of a nebulous title. The Brown
family, immigrants from Lanarkshire, had
settled in Newcastle, and two of the boys
began to dig up and sell coal. Then there
was a row ; the influential A. A. Co. claimed
and insisted upon its monopoly, and the com-
bative Browns replied, in effect: “Come on,
big as you are, we’ll give you a go!” And
they made the go so willing that in the end
the claim was formally abandoned —that was
in the ’forties. Which explains why New-
castle—and especially the Newcastle miner
—regards John Brown, the present-day repre-
sentative of the family, with something like
tolerance, if not affection, and why there is
always a sort of a gulf between John and
the rest of the mineowners, though few of
them could explain why these things are so.
Incidentally, that was a shrewd trick of
somebody’s to push the Bruce Government
into prosecuting John Brown, of all the
owners.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: “Yes, me ’earties,”
quavered the Ancient Mariner, “there ain’t
many things I ain’t done, an’ there ain’t
many places I ain’t bin t’. I were in th’ ol’
Belly-four-un w’en Bonypart kem aboard an’
chucked in ’is ’and; I were in th’ sloop-o’ •
war Tumble with Rahjer Brook a-ketcliin’
an’ a-’angin’ of Di-yaks; I were a-’untin’
pirate junks an’ Harab dhows in tli’ Chiner
Sea an’ tli’ Perishin Gulf; I were a-cruisin’
’round tli’ Pribyloffs an’ Alasker with ol’
Bluenose Berrysford in th’ ’Orrible w’en ’e
were a-layin’ fer a lot o’ Rooshan an’ Yank
seal an’ otter poachers; I were with ‘Dam-
yer-eyes’ Devereaux in th’ Incredible w’en
we bombarded Kartoom frum th’ Red Sea ;
I were” “An if it’s a fair question, old
’un,” cut in the bos’n’s boy, a Cockney, “wuz
you in the Yark w’en Noer dropped ’is mud-
’ook on top o’ th’ ’lmmerlayer mountings?”
* * *
“Medicurse”: I met the worst case of ex-
citement I have seen at an operation when
giving ether the other day. The patient was
to all intents and purposes well on the way
to Lethe when he suddenly sat bolt upright,
brushed two attendants aside, smote me on
THE FOUNDATIONS OF HISTORY.
HISTORY TEACHER: “And now, Jamie, you came from Scotland, so you ought to know—
what were the Stuarts famous for?”
JAMIE ( who’d often heard pa talking about the voyage ): “Chasin’ tips, sir!”
the left temple and stood up on the floor,
wild-eyed and menacing. Our football
exponent tackled him low and got him back
on the table, but not before he had smashed
two ether bottles and swept all the furniture
to the floor. After the operation he thanked
me for the highly satisfactory anaesthetic;
he remembered nothing of the pugilistic
exposition, and, of course, I told him nothing.
He was a heavy drinker in his day, which
accounted for it. There is a new anaesthetic,
sodium amytal. which is injected straight
into a vein and brings about anaesthesia in
a few ocular twinklings, with practically no
stage of excitement.
* * *
“ J.V.D.”: Bill tries to support million-
aire tastes on a clerk’s salary. The other
night I met him in the lounge of the
Splendiferous, clothed in exquisite evening
dress. “Fine suit that, Bill,” I said. “It
ought to be for twenty guineas,” he replied.
“Surely it didn’t cost that,” I proceeded.
“Too right it did,” Bill said. “Here’s the
summons.”
“Light Horse” : It is gratifying to read of
the erection by the Suez Canal Co. of
a splendid monument to those Anzac
British and Indian soldiers who gave their
lives in defence of the Em-
pire waterway. A memorial
to the Indian troops has also
been in position on the canal
for some time. But there is
no stone commemorating the
Australian Light Horsemen,
who were its only wardens
during the 12 months in
which they broke the Turk-
ish invasion at Romani and
chased the Unspeakable out
of Sinai. The money for one
was fully collected before the
Australians left Egypt,
if one excepts the Govern-
ment subsidy. For nearly
10 years the matter has
dragged on, inquiries being
met with the vague state-
ment that the sculptured
group is “in hand.” At the
present rate of progress the
memorial will be ready when
the survivors of the Anzac
Mounted Division and their
cobbers of a later date are
as few and tottering as the poor old Civil
War veterans yon see in the talkies.
* * * =i=
“Wang”: The undersized man in the bar
was becoming a nuisance. He piped up
“The Prisoner’s Song,” and was sternly
silenced by the barman. “Won’ let a feller
shing. won’ yer?” he burbled. “Somebodysh
gorra shing t’ cheer placesh up.” With that
he rose to his feet and addressed the assem-
blage : “Shing, I tell yer! Shing, y’ lizards,
shing!” Nobody taking any notice of him,
he reiterated his demand, with embellish-
ments: “Shing, y’ lizards, shing!” An honest
fellow in dungarees grabbed him by the arm.
“ ’Ere, cut that out!” he said sternly. “I’m
not answerin’ for these other blokes; but I’m
not a lizard, anyway.” The noisy seeker
after vocal entertainment was in no way
abashed. “All righ’,” he hiccoughed ; “then
you needn’t shing.”
* £ * *
“Trallwm”: A Queensland town was the
scene of a new version of the story in which
the aggrieved husband stows away in the
rear seat of a car to spy on his wife and
the pirate at the wheel. The car-owner, a
bagman, was a schooldays friend of the
wife, and when his business carried him to
Wallumtown he usually invited her to. go
for a spin. The suspicious husband seized
the chance of the car standing in a hotel
yard to rearrange some of the samples and
take their place in the rumble, one of those
slope-topped patterns that open upward. But
the lady was alert, and when the car called
at the house she tipped the wink to her
gentleman friend, made only a feint of occu-
pying the seat beside him, and tiptoed back
home. Bagman took his close-packed pas-
senger a long, fast ride over some of the
roughest tracks in Queensland. And when
the husband shoved up that rumble-lid the
car had stopped opposite his own door, and
spectators, specially mustered, were grouped
about the fence, while an obviously home-
staying wife demanded to know from the
security of the verandah how her lord had
got into that disgraceful condition —“George,
just look at your clothes !”
* * * *
“Delungra” : Because the N.S.W. squatter
docs not take to fox-hunting, etc., “2nd
Divvy” (B. 29/l/’30) accuses N. S. Welsh-
men of being poor horsemen. I served with
a Ma State mounted unit through Sinai and
Palestine, and found that the N.S.W. cocky
could get more out of his mount than the
British Yeoman. Units of the Aus. M’t’d
Div. are officially credited with having cov-
ered 400 miles in 10 to 12 days. If “2nd
Divvy” cares to go round N.S.W. country
shows he will find plenty of good horsemen
who never saw r a foxhound in their lives. In-
cidentally, I have not seen a Light Horse-
troop in western N.S.W. or western Queens-
land, a fact which show y s lack of vision. If
this country has to meet invasion its best
weapon will be a mobile and straight-shoot-
ing force ; but evidently there is little desire
to train one.
* * * *
“Sknow”: A prominent up-south public
official controls a number of workshops, and
on the occasion of a foreman dropping dead
at his work the matter was reported to him.
The officer w-ho reported said that he was
rather perturbed, as just before the happen-
ing he had to “straighten up” the deceased
over some shortcoming, and he thought that
his action might have had some indirect
effect on the foreman. “What were. the
words you used?” inquired the Prominent
Public Official. “I want to know exactly
what you said.” His underling told him,
but was asked to repeat them. “You
see,” whispered the P.P.O., “I’ve got several
men here I would like to try those words
on.”
“Morimoto” : “Maru” does not mean ship
in Japanese, nor has it any connection with
eyes, as seems to be implied by “Dog Barker”
(B. 5/2/’30). It signifies force, virtue, dis-
tinction. Probably the nearest Australian
equivalent is “Right Honorable,” and the
term can be applied to a great building or
any deserving object, such as an eminent
politician. It would not be incongruous to
speak of the member for North Sydney as
Hughes Maru, for instance.
“Te Babarantiko”: At Banaba, where I
loaded Japanese “marus” galore with phos-
phate for Dai Nippon, Japanese told me
“mqru” means any kind of “vessel,” not
necessarily a ship. “Dog Barker’s” par.
prompted me to consult my English-Japanese
dictionary, by K. Wadagaki, of Tokyo.
“Maru,” it says, “is (1) a circle; (2) the
name given to the different sections of a
castle.” Many Japanese words begin with
“maru,” but the nearest interpretation to
a ship given is “marutabune,” which means
“a canoe” and which the dictionary pic-
tures as a sampan.
* * ' * *
“Wang” : I was sitting at my office desk
when the telephone bell rang, and the agi-
tated voice of Jockie Smithers, the steam-
1 roller flagman, smote my ears. “Boss,
what’ll I do? There’s a great big hole opened
i in the road, an’ Jimmy, me mate [thedriver],
has fallen into it. He’s swearin’ an’ goin
on somethin’ orful!” “Why the blazes don t
; you pull him out then?” I asked. ‘Cripes,
[ how can I?” asked Jockie in anguish., ‘ He s
s in the cabin of tli’ steam-roller; it s gorn
I down, too.” I was giving the necessary in-
1, structions to some of the men when Jock' 6
s rang up again. “It’s near five now, he
i shouted, “an’ it’ll take three or four hours
) to get ’im out. Jimmy wants to know if
[ he’ll be paid overtime fer stickin’ to his
l job?”
OLD CHANTIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As I were goin’ down Shawditch
On a Saturday night in spring,
I stopped outside of a grogshop
To hear an old cove sing.
’E were standin’ in the gutter
With ’is eyes turned to the light,
But the things ’e seemed to be lookin’ at
Weren’t anyw’ere in sight.
’E were old an’ bent an’ weary,
An’ ’is beard were ragged an’ long,
An’ ’is voice were cracked an’ trembly,
As ’e sang this bit of a song:
“Oh ’Ranzo was no sailor!
(’Ranzo, hoys! ’Ranzo!)
He shipped on hoard of a w’a-aler!
(’Ranzo, hoys — Loranzo !) ”
’ls fist seemed a-grippin’ o’ somethin’,
An’ ’as ’e chanted the rhyme
’E kep’ on a-movin’ ’is body
’An’ swingin’ ’is arms in time.
I knoo just wot ’e were doin’;
I knoo by the look in ’is face!....
The green seas cornin’ abo’rd ’er—
’E was ’aulin’ the port-main brace!
“A monkey ship come up the river!
(Blow, hoy-oys, blow!)
The old man lived on monkey’s liver!
(Blow, hoys! Bully hoys, bloiv!)
An’ the martingale were a-plungin’
Into the greyhack’s side —-
Tom’s gone to Hi-lo!
An’ the ocean’s deep an’ wide.”
An’ the sou’-west gale were a-howlin’
In the strainin’ starboard shrouds,
An’ the moon were facin’ to windward
Through the gaps in the whirlin’ clouds!
They were close-hauled on a bowline,
Half-drowned in a smother of spray,
With the lace-work streamin’ to loo’ard,
Beatin’ across the bay!
“If ever you go-o to lAvei'pool Town
(Way-hay! Blow the man down!)
It’s there you’ll meet young Emily Brown
(Give us some time to blow the man
down!) ”
I steered ’im into the grogshop,
An’ ’e shivered an’ blinked in the light.
I stood ’im a pint o’ dog’s-nose
Sayin’ “Let’s see you put that out o’
sight!”
I arst ’im ’oo ’e’d sailed with —
’Ow long ’ad ’e been at sea?
An’ ’e wiped ’is ’and in ’is w’iskers,
An’ ’iccoughed an’ said: “Wot! Me?
I ain’t never been out o’ Shawditch !. ...
It’s the blinkin troof —you may look!
An’ w’ere did I learn them chanties?
I copied ’em out of a book!”
S.A.
CHARLES HENRY SOUTER.


“P.T.F.” : Tell “Nosrac” (B. 5/2/’3O) that
the 5.30 p.m. express from Spencer-street
to Albury stops at Benalla, Wangaratta and
Wodonga, a fact which adds to the merit of
its performance. The “up” express has been
timed at seven minutes over the nine-mile
stretch between Baddaginnie and Violet
Town —a shade over 77 m.p.h.
# * # *
“Pawang” : Two Melbourne scientists [they
don’t want their names mentioned] were
responsible for a unique case of blood trans-
fusion recently. They were engaged on
experiments at the Zoo on a very rare snake
for whose venom it is required to make an
anti-toxin. The reptile had been duly put
off with an anaesthetic when, to their horror,
the two investigators observed that its soul
was slipping. Three doctors were hastily
summoned and vital fluid transferred from
another specimen. The operation was en-
tirely successful.
* * * &
“Medicurse” : Sydney papers recently made
a sensation of a case in which a strapping-
youth went blind in one eye when he stepped
under a shower. As his eyes seemed normal
both inside and out, an hysterical condition
was at first suspected. It would now appear
that an artery at the back of the eye or in
the occipital lobe of the brain suddenly
went into spasm, due to the cold shock; in
other words, the artery walls, which are
muscular, became tight and prevented the
blood from circulating. The boy is recovering.
There is no similar case on record in Aus-
tralia, as far as I know.
“Oxmead”: Affrays between infuriated
legislators are by no means unknown; but
the damage done is generally in inverse ratio
to the publicity the scuffles get. Well-
meaning bystanders may always be relied
upon to drag the combatants apart before
blood has been shed, though in pre-Federa-
tion days there is a record of a Ma State
M.L.A. having bitten off a scrap of his
antagonist’s ear. In South Africa it would
seem that they hit harder, for a recent row
between a Senator and an Assemblyman
ended in one of them receiving a punch that
put him to sleep for half an hour, probably
an Imperial record for Parliamentary
scraps. A committee is solemnly investi-
gating the occurrence, such a sockdolager as
THE REMEDY.
“Oh, my dear, Eve torn my finger — just, look how it’s bleeding.”
“Yes, Mum—you want something you can twist around it. I’ll go and, fetch your
husband.”
this being liable to be regarded as a breach
of privilege. In the early days of the U.S.
Congress a memher had one of his eyes
gouged out on the floor of the House; but
that was a more bellicose era.
* * * *
“Oran”: A Maoriland school inspector was
questioning a junior class in a timber-mill-
ing district. The subject was timber and its
uses, and th e inspector was trying to elicit
that a big export trade was part of the
district’s affluence. “Now surely you know
what happens to the surplus—the timber that
is not used?” No one ventured a theory.
“You don’t know what is done with the
extra timber? Well, I’m surprised at that.”
“Please, sir,” said a small boy aggrievedly,
“/ know. Dad stacks it under the house.”
“ J.E.”: A Crown Prosecutor became
heated the other day in a Sydney court and
described two persons as being descended
from Ananias and Sapphira. .Ananias and
his wife are mentioned once in the Bible
as having misrepresented the value ot a Dir
of land to a mild extent. They made the
Church a present of less than they got tor
it, and took credit for parting with the lot.
Regarded as estate-agents, they were fairly
honest. It isn’t mentioned that the charge
was substantiated by evidence or by an audit
of the trust accounts. And it
is sheer bigotry to assume that
they left any descendants. They
may have buried their only
child in infancy. But Peter,
who condemned the unfortunate
pair, is mentioned in four
places as having lipd three
times in the presence of wit-
nesses, and is also charged with
having cursed in the presence
of witnesses, one of them an
unmarried girl. He isn’t men-
tioned as giving anything to the
Church. Peter has had cath-
edrals named after him, and
there is no proof that Ananias
might not have had bigger cath-
edrals, save for liis sudden end.
More decent tolerance should
also be shown to Barabbas.
That fighting hero was mixed
up in a “sedition” or “insurrec-
tion” against the Roman autho-
rity, like most good Jewish
patriots at some time or other.
While he was bashing the
idolater and desecrator of the
temple one person was killed,
possibly to the disappointment
of the* people, who may have
remarked that when men like
Garibaldi went seditioning they
generally killed 100 at least. It
isn’t clear whether Barabbas
was arrested on the spot, _ or
whether he got away for a time
and lived by robbing the oppres-
sor, like Robbing Hood, a re-
spected character in English
legend. Anyhow, he fell on evil
days, like Joan of Arc and Wil-
liam Wallace, whom tyrants also
put in the lockup. It is note-
worthy that during his brief
appearance on the page of history Barabbas
isn’t charged with having acted or spoken
otherwise than as became a gentleman. Still
the Church has been consistently against
him.
* # * *
“W.1.1J.” : Broken Hill hospital statistics
suggest that if one cannot be a woman or
child when an attack of pneumonia is due
it is better to be an underground miner than
anyone else. During 1929 there were only
15 cases of pneumonia among underground
men, the death-rate being 13.3 per cent.
Seventeen cases came from other mine em-
ployees, and the death-rate among these was
29.4 per cent. The disease was much more
deadly among male town workers; 44 cases
and . a death-rate of 40.9 per cent. Women
and children provided 109 cases, but their
death-rate was the lowest of the lot —10.1
per cent.
“F.F.F.” : Any appearance of the Law in
my Darlinghurst street is a matter of in-
terest to the inhabitants, and the other morn-
ing it arrived in force. A policeman com-
menced to pace slowly up and down one
pavement; another started to patrol the
other side; then a gentleman with the air
of a major-general and the uniform of a
regimental bandmaster arrived to take com-
mand, flourishing a riding-crop as emblem
of authority. The dread whisper circulated
that their business was to watch where the
bottle-ohs plied their busiest trade prepara-
tory to raiding the sly-groggeries: but the
bottle-ohs must have heard the whisper, for,
greatly to my personal inconvenience (I was
waiting for coins for the slot-gasmeter and
my fare to town), they kept away. Strong
men desisted from walloping other men’s
wives, and flats, usually open-windowed, be-
came strangely shut up and quiet. When
I got home at night I saw people moving
out of three separate places—l understand
people had been moving out most of the
day. After all, it turned out that Authority
was merely making an assessment of the
traffic passing along the street; but the in-
creased prevalence of the “Flat to Let” sign
remains.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Judicial wits don’t always score
off witnesses. A Melbourne beak was
recently confronted by one whose name was
Pearl. “The Pearl of great price?” mur-
mured the Solon. “No, y’ Honor,” was the
prompt reply; “not these days.”
THE PRIMITIVE AND THE MODERN.
SQUATTER'S DAUGHTER ( showing portrait of the boss by great artist ): “Now, Jackie,
do you know who this is?”
OLD RETAINER ( scanning closely) : “Mine tinkit that pfeller dingo.”
“Terrinjal” : Landing from a troopship at
Colombo, I asked at a bookstall for the local
“Times.” “I regret that they are all sold,”
the babu said. “How’s that?” I asked- —“it’s
early yet.” “It is owing to the fact that
there is hubbub in Europe,” Specs replied.
My close-up of the shindy later on made
me realise that there was indeed “hubbub”
in Europe.
a? * * #
“Murkah”: By the way a line works
Central office telegraphists are informed of
country weather conditions. A frequent
“splash” indicates that wires are contacting;
clearly, wind is having its say. When the
relay spits and cracks, and the galvo (current-
measuring instrument) swings erratically, a
liglitning-storm is on the wire. If rain
follows, portion of the telegraph-current
escapes down tne wet poles and the galvo
registers leakage; the amount of it shows
the length of the shower. If other lines
running parallel are unaffected, the storm
is purely local and unlikely to last long.
When the galvo indicates increasing loss,
and all lines are heavy and hard to work, it
is evident that rain is spreading over the
State. Curses in Central office are then
balanced by smiles in the wheat-belt and
where the merino grows its macintosh. Con-
versely, a dry line simply sings, and the
smiles and the language change ends.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: Asiatic immigration
has its drawbacks. Into Singapore
of late years nearly half a million
Chinese have poured annually—
many, of course, go on inland pre-
sently—and the task of washing
and delousing the multitude is
stupendous. One thing the China-
man has a rooted objection to is
for a friend or relative to “die on
him,” leaving his malignant spirit
about the premises. Hence it used
to be the Singapore custom to
hustle the dying into a rickshaw,
run him into a remote district and
leave him on the sidewalk. Police
vigilance has made this method un-
satisfactory, and to serve a popular
demand the receiving-house has
come into existence. A thousand deaths
occurred in only two of these last year.
* * * *
“P.-C. ZYXI.” : The ladies of the underworld
(the picture-papers’ underworld) have an
odd assortment of names for the “slops” who
keep them under surveillance. One massive
cop is known as Ferret; another’s alias is
Snapper ; and there are others called Blos-
som, Chutney, Stringlialt, Flatiron and
Compo—the last in delicate allusion to his
baldness. As I chatted with a John of my
acquaintance a hurrying female spoke. “Look
out, Curly,” she said, “Prickly H'eat’s round
the corner.” “That’s the sergeant,” my
friend explained, with a grin; and he
developed a hurrying mood himself.
:i: * * *
“Right IT. R.” : I remember at least one
red tabs who was quietly ignored in France.
C company of the 25th Battalion was return-
ing to the line at Bullecourt, and had fallen
in after a 10-minute spell. A car contain-
ing a red tabs pulled up and ordered the
loot in charge to fall us out on the side of the
road, as a headquarters car was approach-
ing. Captain Carroll, the company com-
mander, came cantering back and was told
wdiat had happened. “There’s a war on up
the road,” he said, “and I’ve orders to get
there. Fall in, lads!” Fall in we did,
despite red tabs, now red-faced and splutter-
ing.
Hs * * *
“Pawang”: The psycho-analyst has come
into his own as an authority on criminal
actions in at least one country. In Vienna
the practical Freudian is summoned as regu-
larly as the person who testifies to the
character of the accused in an Australian
court. Recently one Luksch was charged
with having fired four shots into his wife’s
body after a domestic squabble. He had
previously earned six weeks for stabbing his
stepmother, and evidence was given as to his
consistent brutality. After a psycho-analyst
had described the gentleman’s “brain storms”
and traced the growth of his inferiority com-
plex, a tender-hearted jury found him not
guilty and he was let off with a fine of eight
shillings for owning an unregistered revolver.
Vienna is the home town of Freud. His
doctrines there are regarded as nothing short
of divine revelation, although in other coun-
tries psychologists strongly contradict the
more extreme of them.
“Scotia”: My pedagogue pal, transferred
to a high school, has been jockeyed
into teaching senior physics, a sub-
ject which he dropped after his junior public
exam. He protested earnestly—and vainly.
“You’ll manage without any trouble,” his
chief said. “Because you know nothing of
the subject you’ll be an ideal teacher; but
take my advice and always keep one page
ahead of your class.”
* * * *
“The Hippogryph”: One of the best
examples of “telepathy” (B. 12/2/’3O) was
staged at a charity bazaar in a Vic. inland
city, at which a fortune-teller was one of
the side-shows. A couple of local lads
squared the lady, a stranger from Melbourne,
to let them take her place. A minor court
official, whose duty brought him in contact
with much of the district’s secret history,
donned the yashmak of the crystal-gazer, and
his colleague, a reporter, brought the right
subjects to the mystic tent. The jape didn’t
last long, but it was exceedingly merry,
particularly when news of the gazer’s un-
canny prescience trickled round. Women
crept away pale-faced, and men regarded
each other furtively, ready to sprint should
anyone raise the cry “All is discovered ; flee
at once!” The jokers never dared confess
their part, and Madame Mahatma’s repu-
tation rose to the heights.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: Discussing an Anglo-
Chinese marriage, Pong Hi surprised me by
expressing his unqualified disapproval of
such alliances. “You look, Missitah,” he
said, “that fashion no goo’. S’posem gar’ner
plantem pun kin ’longsi’ wattah-melon. Bime-
bye catchem welly bad punkin, an’ wattah-
melon allogedder no goo’. Besi’, I tellum you
stlaight,' Missitah, sometime welly goo’
Chinese woman likee mally Eulopean man,
but welly goo’ Eulopean woman —him mally
Chinaman? By cli! No feali!”
* * *
“Alfred O’Toole”; As a forward-runner
in France, I could never get by Birdwood
without saluting. He always weighed-in
first, It) or 15 yards before we passed one
another, on the Somme and other fronts;
and the least I could do was to return it.
The bright smile he always gave me was
reckoned well worth it by a confirmed
dodger of the unpopular custom in the case
of other heads. Was this liis regular prac-
tice, or was it the runner’s red tabs on
my shoulders?
* :Js * ’■!:
“Shop”: Though they waved good-bye
flags to him early in 1915, Rozzer contrived
to keep out of danger till he reached Ypres
salient in the latter part of 1917. Between
times he’d signed the visitors’ book in nearly
every clink Egypt, Blighty and Northern
France possessed. Before he reached sup-
ports a coalbox smashed up his party, and
in the absence of any trace of our hero we
believed him blown to atoms. Months later
military police dragged him back to the
unit, but lie got away again before court-
martial. Posted then as a deserter, he was
caught just before the Armistice, when
he paid us another brief visit —till armed
guards took him to the barbed-wire. His
trial came off after the fighting had finished,
when the heads were opening their hearts
to defaulters who could show some proof of
actual line service. Rozzer cited the Ypres
incident, but couldn’t describe the sector he
was making for. Then he had to admit to
the thunderstruck red-tabs that he’d never
put in a day at the front. Six months’ hard
was the verdict.
VICTIMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. J. M. Fowler, in an article on the No
License referendum in Victoria, stated that tea, meat
and tobacco stood in precisely the same relation to
the community as alcoholic liquor.”
Tom Traddles was a model hubby,
Eupeptic, rubicund and chubby;
Played bowls, took round the plate on
Sunday,
And always helped the wife. But one day,
Debauched by Tea —ah! lying motto,
“The Cup that Cheers”—behold him blotto!
Bill Buggins was a jovial giant,
But to the Tempter’s lure too pliant.
The rosy steak, the side of mutton,
The round of pork obsessed this glutton.
Meat was his doom. Memento mori!
A broken column tells the story.
Sweet Alice, blonde, petite and charming,
Her smile Ben’s blackest mood disarming...
Alas! What dark, insensate malice
Caused him to press cigars on Alice?
Trusting, she lit a fell Havana,
Puffed twice, and brained him with a
spanner.
victoria.
WAWHERESH.


COMMONWEALTH LOAN
6 PER CENT. PER ANNUM FOR 7 YEARS.
INTEREST PAYABLE MARCH IS AND SEPTEMBER IS.
Commonwealth 6 per cent. Bonds and Stock maturing on March 15, 1930, and December 15, 1930, may be changed into securities of
this new Loan.
Conversion will be effected as on March 15, 1930, and all persons who convert will continue to receive interest at 6 per cent, per annum
until March 15, 1937.
Cash subscriptions—in sums small or large—may also be made to th is Loan.
Money subscribed will commence to earn interest at 6 per cent, per annum from the date of its lodgment.
A deposit of only 10 per cent, need be made now, and the balance of the subscription may be paid at any time up to Friday, March
14, 1930.
All interest is FREE OF STATE INCOME TAX.
Full particulars from: —
BANKS, SAVINGS BANKS, MONEY ORDER POST OFFICES AND MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES.
Commonwealth Treasury. EDWARD G. THEODORE, Treasurer.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The New Moon’’
Criterion “Journey’s End”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Roy'al “Follow Through”
New Comedy “The Poppy God”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
From Sundry Shows’ Shcoak Gully repre-
sentative :
The Amateur Dramatic 'Club was giving
the thrilling melodrama “The Missing Will.”
The persecuted heroine, who stood to come in
for a fortune by the recovery of the document
was old Dick Wlieatoats’s daughter Maggie.
Old Dick, seated well up in front, followed
the performance with the keenest interest.
The villain of the - piece was young Alick
McNabb, and his perfidy throughout the
piece met with much muttered condemnation
from old Dick. When at the finish Alick
was unmasked, and his duplicity and vil-
lainy exposed, old Dick cheered and clapped
loudly. As the curtain fell he turned to
Skinny Jinks with the remark, “Serves
him dashed well right, th’ dirty young cow.”
Skinny expressed surprised at old Dick’s
vehemence. “It was only pertendin’,” he
said. “Perdendin’ be jiggered,” retorted old
Dick. “Y’ can’t tell me that. No decent
feller ’d do what that chap did, robbin’ a
girl of her rights, even in fun. I tell yer,
I’ve always had me suspicions ’bout that
young feller. Now I’m satisfied they wus
justerfied. He’s been cornin’ bangin’ round
me place t’ see Maggie a lot lately. Now I
know what fer. Rehearsin’! Me foot! I
lorst a bag of seed spuds a few weeks ago
an’ blamed that newchum I got workin’ fer
me fer givin’ ’em t’ th’ pigs. I come past
young McNabb’s place yesterday, an’ noticed
he had a fine crop of spuds cornin’ up. I’ll
bet they’re from th’ seed lie pinched orf me.
If he’d lower himself to steal a will, he’d
steal seed spuds. By cripes, he would!”
No local writer having responded to
Melbourne “Herald’s” invitation to write a
“Journey’s End,” Leon Gordon has obliged
with a P.S. or footnote thereto, entitled
“The Poppy God,” the Story of a Coward,
in a prologue and three acts; and a large
house surveyed the masterpiece at Mel-
bourne Comedy on Saturday.
“The Poppy God” opens in the stateroom
of artist Stanley Bennett (Gordon) aboard
the s.s. Empress of China, en route from
TORY TAUNTON, the lady of “Desire Under the Elms,” at
Sydney Playbox.
Hong Kong to San Francisco. Major
Hawley, Higgins, Exley and Leighton, Ben-
nett’s friends, are hurrying to London to
join the British army and Bennett is osten-
sibly doing likewise. They agree that, after
the war they will all meet at a cafe and
celebrate the Armistice. Bennett is a
coward, however, and his mother (Beatrice
Day) is a disloyal matron and has him con-
cealed in the home of Wo Ling Wo (George
Blunt), merchant, of ’Frisco. Wo Ling
Wo is a tubby Celestial, whose habit of
toddling about in the manner of all stage
Chinamen wars with his speech, which is
composed of Chinese cracker mottoes; also
the frequent repetition of his name makes
the play sound like a horse-carriers’ pic-
nic; Wo informs Bennett that the house
and everything in it is his, according to
the immemorial laws of Chow hospitality;
and Bennett accepts the invitation literally
as regards Wo’s wife, Suie Ming (Nancy
Gordon), who consents to “give herself to
him” in the summer-house. Gin Long, hatcliet-
man of the Yip Sing Tong, then intrudes in
the comic-opera person of Ashton Jarry and
blows the gaff on Bennett, and Whoa,
having learnt that Mrs. Bennett can no
longer pay her son’s board and lodging,
orders Bennett out of the house instanter.
Bennett begs to be allowed to remain one
night so that he can pack liis things and
seduce Wo’s wife; but Wo is adamant.
Whereat Bennett strikes an injured hero
attitude and calls Wo a blackguard. Here
he is obviously asking for the audience’s
sympathy, as he certainly appears to have
that of Mr. Gordon. Instead of killing him
on the spot, Woe allows Bennett to depart
with Suie Ming and live in Chinatown,
where Gin Long assiduously keeps him sup-
plied with opium. The faithful Suie Ming
then goes on the streets to keep the home
together, and a female missionary (Dulcie
Cherry) turns up in high-heeled shoes, flesh
hose and a fur coat, pursued by the devotion
of an extraneous reporter by way of love
interest. One look into her grey eyes and
Bennett rushes round to the nearest
recruiting office. One of his lungs has gone,
however, and he staggers back rejected, just
as America, represented by five men and a
girl in a tavern, declares war on Germany.
Bennett is poisoned with an overdose of
opium administered by the solicitous Gin
Sling, Whoa creeps in to disembowel his
errant missus, the lights fade and an inset
appears in which the recruits of the prologue
are revealed as seasoned veterans toasting
the empty chair of Bennett, gratuitously
credited with having died gloriously in
battle.
As a play “The Poppy God” is an incon-
gruous mixture of mid-Victorian bellow-
drama and modern realism. It is more in-
teresting for its unconscious psychology. It
is a study, and apparently an accidental
study, of adult infantilism. Bennett is the
child-man, the complete Narcissist who refers
everything back to his ego and is hurt at
not being allowed to live according to his
instincts. Evidently the author is in com-
plete sympathy with him. Otherwise why
does he allow him
the typically child-
ish compensation of
being mistaken by
his friends for a
hero? Gordon is
an uneven drama-
tist. When his
theme is elevated
he betrays the
shoddy sentimen-
talist. The scenes
of low life in the
tavern are better.
The character of
the broken-down
doctor who uses the
tavern as _hi.s sur-
gery contains some
admirable touches.
It is uncertain,
however, how many
of these should be
set down to the
credit of the fine
talent of Frank
Bradley. The rest
of the cast give
the piece the sort
of acting it is en-
titled to.
# * *
In one respect at
least the Turret
production of “The
Cradle Song” at
Sydney Savoy last
week was worth
while. It proved in
a time when the
theatrical position
is pretty rocky that
it is still possible
to crowd a house.
Even the so-called
standing room at
the back of the
hall was occupied,
and the street
doors were locked
to prevent any more
from coming in, a sensible precaution which
also prevented anyone from going out.
Producing was fair, and the players did very
well with the material at hand. The play was
the sting. It is in two acts, the first devoted
to intimating how worldliness —even less pas-
sionate than that which poor Bunyan tor
tured himself over—has to be countered and
gently expelled from the being of a novice in
a Spanish convent. The other act is better,
but before its end a monotonousness that
loomed from the beginning in this presenta-
tion becomes all but unbearable. It springs
from a curious dramatic verity—that drama
lives by contrast, and here there is only the
contrast of black and white clothing. One
nun in her black, one novice in her white
would be at once a dramatic figure in any
normal setting. H'ere individuality is denied
her; she is a unit, not an entity. Reading
tlie play all the
figures would
doubtless appear
to have distinct
character, intrinsic
and otherwise. On
the boards the phy-
sical is practically
abolished by the
uniform hooded
drapery, the influ-
ence of which is so
tremendous that it
submerges the in-
trinsic also;
The players are
cramped in another
way. A slab of
ordinary knock-
about life can be
plausibly translated
into terms of the
theatre. It has
only to approxi-
mate to the origi-
nal ; and, in fact,
because the illu-
sion of reality, not
reality itself, is the
object of dramatic
art, it is almost
invariably a de-
merit to approxi-
mate too closely.
That is why “prig”
makes the gener-
ally-taboo swear-
words in “Jour-
ney’s End” look
futile. It is the
nature of the
theatre to be theat-
rical ; every at-
tempt to translate
literally such com-
monplaces of life as
conversation must
fail. It is the most
interesting thing
about this play that it ' cannot be
theatrical. Whereas literal truth rings
false in an ordinary play, here false-
ness comes from departing from it. In still
another respect the dramatic possibilities of
the play are limited. There can be gentle
humanity, but there is no opportunity what-
ever for great emotion, or even for mere
violent physical action. For these, and per-
haps for other reasons, such a play might be
beautiful or sad, but it cannot possibly
be dramatic. That absence of contrast in
the appearance of the figures is essentially
part of the play also. There can be no
sudden flaming up to great heights of expres-
sion. It has to go forward on the even tenor
of its way, serene and unruffled.
Altogether it is a curious theatrical docu-
ment, about as compatible in a worldly audi-
torium as an orchid in a chamber of frozen
mutton.
* * *
Sydney’s _ unemployed _ musicians started
well in their effort to win a few bob away
from their slayers, the talkies. Their orches-
tral concert merited the enthusiasm of the
large audience. In a well-chosen programme,
which commenced with an impressive per-
formance of the “Rienzi” overture of Wagner
and continued in a lighter but still graceful
strain, the orchestra, led by W. ,T. Grieves,
spread out a warm wealth of tone. Fred
Quintrell kept his forces well together. His
readings were sound throughout, and par-
ticularly so in the ballet “Egyptian” of
Luigini. The offering included the overture
to “Euryanthe,” the “Peer Gynt” suite,
Friedman’s Slavonic rhapsody and two opera-
tic selections. Vladimir Elin’s throaty pro-
duction and failure to enunciate were no
great assistance, but the other spare artist,
Gwladys Evans, sang with great charm and
ease. Other assaults are set down for Febru-
ary 26 and March S, 15 and 22. Molly de
Gunst will assist at the next.
What promises to be the swan song Of
vaudeville at Sydney Fullers’ was begun by
the Connors and Paul combination last week.
The programme included a series of bright
and lively sketches, through which Mike Con-
nors and Queenie Paul gambolled to the entire
satisfaction of themselves and to the appa-
rent delight of the audience. Phil Smith,
Gladys Shaw and Phil Beck filled out a good
programme, which gained strength from an
excellent ballet and first-class instrumental
music from Frank Chappie’s Collegians.
* ¥ *
Having suffered mercilessly at the hands
of A 1 Jolson, this Showman will keep tem-
porarily away from Sydney Haymarket,
where the lushest sentimentalist on earth is
in a talkie called “Say It with Songs.” The
fine talkie “The Trespasser” continues to do
business on its merits at the St. James.
It is in its last weeks and is well worth a
visit. The State has “Glorifying the Ameri-
can Girl,” with a pageant in opposition to
“glorify the Australian girl.” The Capitol,
which has tried out the long-run system,, is
back to wmekly changes with “Smiling Irish
Eyes” and “The Battle of Paris.” “Three
Live Ghosts” (Empress). “The Mighty”
DOROTHY LOWE, in “The Cradle Song” at Sydney Savoy.
(Lyric) and “On With the Show” (Crystal
Palace) are the other Union sliow T S. Hoyt's
Regent has “Untamed”; Royal, “The Trial
of Mary Dugan”; Empire, “Married in
Hollywood.” Maurice Chevalier continues
with “The Love Parade” at the Prince
Edward.
* * *
It is to be hoped that events will justify
the Firm’s re-engagement of Gladys Mon-
eriff for the revival of her favorite pieces and
at a salary alleged to be higher than has
been paid to any other artist, home-grown or
imported. “The Maid of the Mountains”
was revived at Sydney Royal in 1925 with
the Moncrieff as the Maid, Claude Flem-
ming as Baldassare and John Ralston as
Beppo—a strong combination. It ran for nine
nights. “The Merry Widow,” with Holland
and Stigant supporting, lasted three nights
and “The Lady of the Rose” (being less hack-
neyed) seven weeks. “The Street Singer,” a
new comic opera by Frederick Lonsdale, was
then attempted and ran longer than any of
the revivals, though it was a poor show.
Later, in Melbourne, “The Street _ Singer”
lasted nine weeks, the revival of Miss Mon-
crieff’s chosen vehicles only prolonging the
season a fortnight, and even then the aged
Andrew Iligginson had to be brought out of
retirement to do Prince Danilo, owing to the
shortage of romantic tenors. There is noth-
ing in the above record to justify optimism
or talk of enormous salaries —especially in
view of the intenser competition of the
vocalised cinema. The Firm professes to
have detected a reaction against Afroameri-
can hoof-and-saxoplione comedies; and so
there is—but amongst how many people is
a moot question. When the Fullers starred
Gladys in “Rio Rita” it wasn’t her rich voice
and impassioned acting but the highstep-
ping of Janet Gilmore, a clever little Ameri-
can, which drew the multitude. A renewal
of interest in comic opera will only come
when another Gilbert and another Sullivan
arise—and they won’t disdain even jazz if
it suits their purpose.
# # #
George Wallace had to work hard last
week at Melb. Tivoli to conceal the- fact
that the programme was the worst seen
there for several months past. Tup Dudley
was heard in a medley of numbers described
as popular, an adjective that could not be
attached to the manner of delivering them.
Hamilton Bateman, “Melbourne’s leading
violinist,” was at any rate its fastest.
* •¥ *
Sydney Turret’s next enterprise is to be
“Lcs Vignes du Seigneur” in the French.
It opens to-morrow (Thursday).


*
: W
A
■
/i
0
#
£
*
/
.
m
m f ,r
§BB*
$ s&s&r
a
7
<I m
r
i. :,-■
%Jt
'
,,sS
:xsMx : :->x-S:i;
; : 'V \-;
Reproduced from the original rough
pencil sketch by Thomas Bodley.
W,
®ot4it^Pf*<a®w
Rou&h Sketch Series
No. 2.
Wonderful! Sailing along through
new scenes—out in the fresh air, off
for the holiday. Great, isn’t it ? Engine
pulling well, the day sunny —every-
thing is fine. Tyres all right 1 Yes—
they’re bought for toughness ♦
Built into Perdriau Tyres is the
highest degree of toughness. Carcass
and tread are scientifically designed
and made to give the utmost service.
Treat Perdriau Tyres well or badly,
they render wonderful, trouble-free
mileage. Fit your car with Perdriau
for economy and reliability!
Stocked by all Garages
and Tyre Dealers


R°NE.°
BUSINESS
EFFICIENCY
METHODS.
British Manufacture
STEEL CABINETS. .
FILING SYSTEMS.
VISIBLE CARD
RECORDS.
RONEOTYPE
DUPLICATORS.
ADDRESSING
MACHINES.
ON EXHIBITION AT
71 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
64 MARKET STREET, MELBOURNE.
43 CREEK STREET, BRISBANE.
GAWLER PLACE, ADELAIDE.
107 MURRAY STREET, PERTH.
81
M
%
WATER FILTRATION
For manufacturing purposes clear water is
essential. The “SWIRL” FILTER gives
a large output and is specially suitable for
Ice Works, Butter Factories, Laundries, etc.
Also Sole Manufacturers of the well-known
“Abbot” Germ-proof Filters, pressure or
crockery, for household use, Cordial
Factories, etc.
Catalogues on Application.
Guthridge Limited
Sole Manufacturers
10-12 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY
INSURE WITH THE
Mercantile Mutual
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Company—
Established 1878.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centres.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1919.. 44,548 74 p.c. = 38,750 5,798 18,689
1920.. 52,981 9* „ „ 50,502 2,479 21,168
1921.. 49,570 8 „„ 47,141 2,429 23,597
1922.. 58,244 8 ~ „ 48,733 9,511 33,108
1923.. 50.964 8 „„ 49,867 1,097 34,205
1924.. 56,184 8 „„ 49,867 6,317 40,522
1925.. 55,086 8 „„ 49.867 5,219 45,741
1926.. 54,242 8 „„ 49,867 4,375 50,116
1927.. 50,488 8 „„ 49,867 621 50,737
1928.. 60,983 8 „„ 49,867 11,116 61,853
1929.. 46,281 8 „ „ 49,867 58,267
The board called £51,712 of last year’s
takings net profit. That was £1497 more
than was claimed in the previous year ; but
it left out of account an unexplained reduc-
tion of £5431 in the insurance fund, now
£52,750. But not much notice need be taken
of any of those figures. The position is now
governed mainly by the special allowances
made for depreciation. The completion of
the Harbor Bridge, scheduled for about the
end of 1931, is expected to either entirely
wipe out or reduce to a shadow what thus
far has been the eo.’s chief sources of profit—
its Milson’s Point, Lavender Bay and vehicu-
lar ferry services. The board claims that it
will then not be able to find profitable
employment for many of the co.’s steamers,
especially the larger ones, which, of course,
means that they will be of little value.
To provide for the anticipated loss through
shrinkage in value of the fleet, it has become
necessary to clip something substantial out
of earnings year by year until the end of
1931. Exactly what the co. aims at in this
respect the following table makes clear: —
Esti-
Cost Book mated
to Value Value
Co. 31/12/’27. 31/12/’3l.
Milson’s Point, Lav-
ender Bay . . £209,192 £101,584 £18,750
Vehicular . . . . 201,394 123,628 15,450
£410,586 £225,212 £34,200
Balance of fleet .. 291,999 104,109 26,350
Total .. .. £702,585 £329,321 £60,550
Instead of making the necessary provisions
immediately after the Bridge Act was passed
in 1922, the board delayed taking effective
measures until Oct., 1928, when a penny was
added to the cash (casual) passenger fare,
making it 3d., on the runs above referred to.
This was expected to swell revenue by
£35,000 p.a.
Of course there was an outcry from the
public, in response to which the Government
appointed accountants Wolfenden and Marks
to investigate. They said the increase in fare
was not justified. The Government, how-
ever, found that the law gave it no power to
step in and regulate charges. Nevertheless,
it again asked the co. for information in Oct,
last; and as it then seemed likely that tak-
ings for the year would more than cover the
8 p.c. div. and the extra depreciation, the
board made a cut of 10 p.c. in the price
for quarterly, monthly and workmen’s tickets
on the Milson’s and McMahon’s Point ser-
vices. The Government considered this was
not enough, and pressed for further conces-
sions, to which the co. refused to agree. There
has since been a slackening of the traffic, and
the directors hold out no hope of any further
reduction.
Now look at these figures:—
1926. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Liquid assets.. £133,764 £145,623 £265,511 £363,119
Liabilities .. 106,352 73,609 53,391 65,520
Surplus .. £27,412 £72,014 £212,120 £297,599
Mainly because of the writing down, the
board was able to strengthen liquids by
£97,608 last year; but £12,129 was added to
the debt, so the growth in the liquid sur-
plus was £85,479,. making the improvement
over the last two years £225,585. The figures
were assisted by £87,000-odd compensation
received in 1928 in connection with the
Milson’s Point resumption.
In respect of the Tahiti-Greycliffe disaster,
the Court recently apportioned two-fifths of
the blame to the Tahiti’s owners, who will
therefore have to pay that proportion of the
Ferry Co.’s loss, which has not yet been
assessed. The other three-fifths will have to
be met by the Ferry Co. itself, unless, of
course, it has the risk covered outside; if it
has not, the claims are likely to make a hole
in liquids. Immediately the position clears
sufficientlv the intention is to return about
£250,000 “of the £623,332 of paid capital,
approximately Bs. per share. This will be
facilitated by maturity during the current
year of £255,100 of the £330,529 which the
co. has invested in Commonwealth bonds,
etc. An S p.c. div. will then call for about
£29,000.
The co.’s prospects of paying a reasonable
div. after the bridge is opened for traffic
will depend mainly upon (1) the amount of
capital it is able to return, and (2) whether,
under altered conditions, present non-paying
services can be turned into profit-earners.
Fares will be kept in check by the competi-
tion of other means of transport; but new
runs and better services may help to win
more business.
Balance-sheet figures compare as follows:
1923. 1926. 1928. 1929.
Liabilities .. £41,727 £106,352 £53,391 £65,520
Landed property.. 92,277 115,125 45,080 42,820
Ship property .. 403,230 379,936 288,118 212,413
Wharves and wait-
ing-rooms .. 43,885 45,327 37,437 26,278
Plant & machinery 3,362 9,133 7,638 6,696
Fuel & stores, etc. 14,021 14,447 12,724 13,725
Shares in other
cos 107,000 107,000 107,000 107,000
Sundry debtors .. 8,900 20,328 25,816 24,018
Public securities,
etc 48,489 110,607 234,049 330,528
Cash .. .. 3,033 2,829 5,646 8,572
The book value of fixed assets was reduced
£90,066 during the year. The holding in the
subsidiary, Harbor, Land and Transport Co.,
remains unchanged at £107,000. The pup
took over the parent’s land properties, or
most of them, in 1918 for £90,000 in scrip.
A year later its assets were found to be
worth 50 p.c. more than their book value,
and unearned increment has, no doubt, added
a bit since. In 1927 the pup paid 10 p.c.;
but 8 p.c. was spoken of for the future.
On the market the parent’s scrip is at 21s.
as against 21s. 9d. a year ago.
Squatting Investment Co. (Melb.).
Added to Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
& £> £ £
1919 .. 14,861 5 p.c. = 14,600 261 450
1920 .. 4,506 IS „ „ 4,866 90
1921 .. 9,842 3| „ „ 9,733 109 199
1922 .. 41,700 10 „ „ 29,200 12,500 12,699
1923 . . 29,050 10 „ „ 29,201 12,548
Assets written down .. £146,002
1924 .. 59,976 30 p.c. = 43,801 16,175 28,723
1925 . . 32,991 20 „ „ 29,201 3,790 32,513
1926 .. 28,617 20 „ „ 29,201 31,929
1927 .. 21,751 20 „ „ 29,201 24,479
1928 .. 18,546 13 J „ „ 19,467 .. 23,558
Transferred from tax reserve, £lOOO.. 24,558
Loss. Deficit.
1929 .. 101,680 Nil 77,122
Drought was the villain. Assisted by attenu-
ated prices for wool, it got away with not
only the earnings but with all the available
reserves and more besides, leaving the co.
with a deficit of £77,122 to be cleared off out
of future earnings.
In case it shouldn’t be able to renew its
Queensland leases, which fall-in in 1934, the
co. bought Quantambone, together with an
adjoining property, near Brewarrina
(N.S.W.), for £275,000 in August, 1928.
The deal included 76,736 sheep, 70 cattle and
55 horses. The sheep were delivered off-
shears, so the co.’s 1928 clip got no benefit
from the purchase. There was little feed
on the properties when they were taken over;
and as for the 12 months to the close of last
accounts the rainfall was only 4.3 in., of
course there was bad trouble there. At
Thuruloonga, sou’-west Queensland, only
3.Bin. fell. These are the lightest falls since
ISBI and 1900 on the respective holdings.
The dry grass on the co.’s Queensland station
gave out last winter, and, as already sug-
gested, the N. S. Wales runs were bare of
feed for practically the whole term. Thus
heavy expenditure on stock food, scrub-cut-
ting and transport and agistment became
inevitable. Most of the breeding ewes, rams
and young wethers were saved, but the lamb-
ing was a total failure, and heavy mortality
(34,913 sheep) and realisations (49.226
sheep) at greatly reduced prices resulted in
exceptional losses on livestock account.
The result of the year’s shearing was 2534
bales of greasy wool from 115,450 sheep
passed over the board as against 1924 bales
from 82,576 sheep in the previous season.
But owing to the much reduced price of the
staple the returns from wool (£39,938) were
actually £5569 lighter. Including £35,056
direct expenditure on account of the drought,
and £43,676 struck off to cover losses on
livestock account, exes. (£140,781) were
£97,248 heavier, making the total loss on
the year’s operations £101,680.
Again the co.’s troubles show up in a
comparison of balance-sheet figures:—
1924. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Capital . . £146,002 £146,002 £243,338 £243,338
Liabilities .. 912 671 96,923 127,486
Stations, plant,
etc. .. 78,743 59,820 218,661 207,034
Sheep, cattle,
horses .. 45,230 39,695 155,366 83,410
Wool unsold .. 810 2,200 1,008 1,056
Cash, etc. .. 109,789 102,906 3,379 4,138
At the close of last account the co. was
leaning on its bankers for £124,257 (up
£86,672 during the year), and there was
£3228 (down £56,110) coming to sundry
creditors. Thus the net addition to the debt
was £30,563, making it £38,882 in excess of
the more or less liquids, including live stock.
The latter consisted of 96,820 sheep as
against 176,747 a year earlier, 87 cattle and
250 . horses; the lot in at £83,410, down
£71,956. The amount struck off for deprecia-
tion of fixed assets was £17,348, or £6401
more than in the previous term ; but their
book value dropped only £11,627, so appa-
rently £5721 was spent on improvements and
charged to capital.
The co. has been a run-owner in sou’-
wcst Queensland for 41 years, but it never
got much out of the business until wool
prices took their post-war leap. For the
23 years to 1923 divs. averaged only p.e.,
but no provision was made for the. amorti-
sation of the leases. Hence £146,002 that
had been paid in “bonuses” during the 10
years to 1923 was struck off capital (and
also off the book value of the leases), leav-
ing the scrip with a face value of 30s. How-
ever, the co.’s recent property purchases,
which comprise 10,699 acres of freehold and
365,535 acres of N. S. Wales Western Land
leases, have given it new life. Earnings will
depend mainly upon the weather and the
course of wool prices. Last month’s rains—■
5.7 inches on Thuruloonga and up to 4.5
inches on Quantambone —have greatly re-
lieved the ‘position, but more is needed if
the lambing in September next is to be suc-
cessful. Wool is fetching only about two-
thirds the price it did in the previous season,
the co.’s flocks are depleted, it is carrying
more interest-bearing debt and has a sub-
stantial deficit to wipe out. Obviously much
will depend upon the next lambing.
On the market the 30s. shares were at
375. a year ago. Recently a seller at 2Ss.
failed to attract buyers. At the close of
accounts the net tangible backing amounted
to 20s. 6d. per share.
The Kauri Timber Co.
Written
Aug., Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves
£ £ £ £
1919.. 71,412 8 p.e. = 46,800 11,901 221,820
Capital returned, £135,000. Co. reconstructed.
Assets written up, £300,000 of reserves capi-
talised, one fully-paid 255. share issued for
every 15s. paid in old co.
Reserves.
158,883
1921.. 134,001 8 p.C. = 60,000 23,382 209,502
1922.. 87,044 8 „ „ 60,000 19,896 216,650
Contingency fund ( £11,084) taken in 227,734
1923.. 102,858 8 p.e. = 60,000 14,889 255,703
1924.. 104,569 8 „ „ 60,000 15,822 284,450
1925.. 109,459 8 „ „ 60,000 14,691 319,218
Special depreciation .. 27,861 291,357
1926.. 71,255 8 p.e. = 60,000 13,880 288,732
Special depreciation .. 30,431 258,30]
1927.. 45,881 6 p.e. = 45,000 11,560 247,622
Special depreciation .. 10,632 236.990
1928.. 14,669 3 p.e. = 22,500 10,951 218,208
1929.. 31,634 3 p.e. = 22,500 10,752 216,590
The spring of £16,965 in the profit suggests
a welcome turn of the tide in the timber
trade. For the last five years the industry
has been readjusting itself to altered con-
ditions, and profits have been hard to win.
Last year Kauri’s gross profit, which came
down by halting steps from £192,828 in 1922
to £76,613 in 1928, climbed £10,992, reaching
£87,605. Also the management was able
to make a cut of £4454 in exes. (£55,922).
All this despite the dislocation and loss due
to the timber-workers’ strike, which para-
lysed the co.’s Australian business for 20
weeks during the term. The improvement
was in Maoriland interests. Inspired by
the example of producers in other industries,
Maoriland’s timber traders, or most of them,
decided that the best way out of their diffi-
culties was to co-operate. Trade organisa-
tions have been formed to liven the demand
for local timbers, and improve marketing
methods, etc. In this and other ways it is
hoped also to strengthen and stabilise prices.
Nothing has yet been done by Australian
timber interests along these lines, though
lack of something of the sort has aggravated
the sickness of the industry.
Still, after taking £10,752 for deprecia-
tion, shown as written off in the table, the
£20,882 netted last year was only 2.7 p.e. on
the £750,000 of paid capital, so reserves
had to be dipped into again to give share-
holders 3 p.e. Nor is that all. Of recent
years the shrinkage in timber prices has
necessitated cuts in stock values, and these
and other adjustments have chewed into
reserves for no less than £102,628 during
the last five years, reducing the pile
to £216,590 at the close of last accounts.
The next comparison shows how the
various accumulations are apportioned :—-
1923. 1928. 1929.
Contingency reserves ..£156,929 £88,006 £88,006
Contingency fund .. 15,471 26,625 26,577
Div. equalisation .. 20,000 35,000 33,500
Fire insurance fund .. 23,134 38,231 38,231
Fire ins. consequential
loss 9,657 24,809 24,809
Log reserve .. .. 911
Marine ins. fund .. 1,832 4,883 5,078
Thus the board’s policy of making liberal
provision for contingencies during the fat
years has enabled the co. to come through
a rough passage so far without having to
jettison any of its capital, or allow its share-
holders to go hungry. Over the last nine
years divs. have averaged 6.6 p.e., but the
reconstruction in 1919, when one fully paid
255. share was handed out for every 15s.
paid in the old co., makes 6.6 pc. worth
approximately 11 p.e. to old holders.
Despite difficulties the co.’s finances re-
main snug, as this comparison of balance-
sheet figures shows:—
1922. 1926. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital.. £750,000 £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Liabilities .. 161,178 80,630 36,743 30,360
Freeholds . . 155,646 146,048 127,920 111,453
Leaseholds .. 133,409 88,962 64,944 60,577
Plant, etc. . . 162,605 182,576 192,426 187,582
Stocks, etc. . . 412,997 364,333 296,127 259,303
Book debts . . 116,718 124,178 107,292 90,453
Shares . . 93,166 143,471 148,471 148,471
I n v e stments,
cash, etc. .. 94,072 99,569 90,263 161,604
Stocks and book debts were further worked
down during the year, and all the available
money went into investments, cash, etc.
(up £71,341). This item alone more than
five times covers the outside debt, which has
been worked down £50,270 over the last three
years. Including stocks, the more or less
liquid surplus (£481,000) was £24,061
stronger than at the previous balance.
Future results will partly depend upon the
value the co. has placed on the standing
timber in its big freehold and leasehold
forests. The combined holdings are in the
books at £172,030, down £62,980 since the
close of accounts in 1926. Conditions in the
industry are said to be improving, and the
adjustment in the tariff on timber is expected
to help. But nothing like a return to the
prosperity which accompanied the post-war
building boom need be looked for.
In 1926 the market priced the 255. paid
shares at 335. The figures eased to 20s. a
year ago; recently buyers at 14s. failed to
attract sellers. The backing amounts to
325. 2d. per share in net tangibles.
N.Z. Refrigerating Co., Ltd.
To Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 66,479 14 p.c. = 41,100 25,379 285,320
£50,000 of internal reserves disclosed 1 ok o 9n
£300,000 of reserves transferred to capital j ’ u
1919.. 147,940 16J p.c. = 75,000 72,940 108,260
1920.. 80,802 12$ „ „ 75,000 5,502 114,062
1921.. 48,727 8 „ „ 48,000 727 114,789
1922.. 48,484 6i „ „ 37,500 10,984 125,773
1923.. 49,103 6| „ „ 37,500 11,603 137,376
1924.. 59,163 61 „ „ 37,500 21,063 159,039
1925.. 38,329 6* „ „ 37,500 829 159,868
Goodwill item, £36,310 .. ... .. 123,558
Written off goodwill, £12,103 .. .. 135,661
Loss.
1926.. 7,412 Nil 128,249
Written off goodwill, £12,103 .. 140,352
Profit.
1927.. 48,486 74 p.c. = 47,723 763 141,116
Written off goodwill, £12,104 . . 153,219
1928.. 33,042 5 p.c. = 31,816 1,226 154,445
Inner reserves disclosed, £100,000.. 254,445
Loss.
1929.. 105,342 Nil 149,103
This is very significant. The co. is one of the
biggest of Maoriland’s freezers, and operates
in one of the best lamb- and mutton-produc-
ing centres in the world; yet, despite slaugh-
terings of over a million and a half carcases
of lamb and mutton, it has registered the
biggest loss in its history. Indeed, if the
£12,103 struck off on account of good-will in
1926 is disregarded, it is the only time that
the balance has been struck on the wrong
side of the ledger. After setting aside some-
thing for repairs,' renewals, taxation and
sundry contingencies the year’s trading
showed a loss of £105,342; and it would have
been more, the chairman says, had not the
co.’s vigorous policy of forward sales partly
softened the blows from falling markets.
Prices for mutton, wool, skins and tallow all
weakened, while competition kept fat stock
at relatively high figures.
” Conditions in the industry have altered
completely since the co. doubled its capital
in 1919 by a gift from profits accumulated
during the fat years of the British meat-
purchase scheme and other war-time con-
tracts. One result of it all has been a run of
moderate divs., an average of only 5.8 p.c.
over the last 10 years ; another is that the
scrip has fallen to a discount. There are still
more freezing works in the Dominion than are
necessary to handle the available supplies,
and that is pretty certain to mean that opera-
ting exes, in the industry are too high. ■ Price-
cutting has frozen some of fhe smaller con-
cerns, mostly in the North Island, out of
business, and the attention given to top-
dressing pastures has greatly increased early
lamb and other deliveries of recent years,
thus livening the turnover of the survivors.
Still it is obvious that the latter have not
got much out of the bigger trading. This
co. has more than doubled its turnover, in both
volume and value, during the last half-dozen
years. Another factor which has to be
reckoned with is the growing competition
from S. American producers. Ten years
ago Maoriland supplied about 75 p.c. of the
total quantity of lamb imported into Britain,
whereas the' ratio had dropped back to 54
p.c. for 1928. Over the same period the pro-
portion of lamb supplied from S. America
advanced from 6 p.c. to 21 p.c. Also there
has been a big increase in supplies, but thus
far English and Continental markets have
been able to absorb these, though, of course,
prices have had to be cut.
The heavy loss registered by the co. last
year might be expected to throw a gloom
over shareholders’ prospects by pushing divs.
well into the future. But the position in this


PROSPECTUS of
BOND’S INDUSTRIES LIMITED
To be registered under the Companies Act of New South Wales.
CAPITAL/ - - £500,000 Divided into 500,000 Shares of £1 each,
of which
25,600 Shares have been applied for at par and will be allotted to certain creditors of Geo. A. Bond and Company, Limited (In Liquidation), and paid for
in cash free of brokerage and underwriting commission.
124,400 Shares are now offered for public subscription.
150,000 Shares are specially reserved for subscription at par by the Preference Shareholders of Geo. A. Bond and Company, Limited (In Liquidation).
200,000 Shares are held in reserve.
500,000
The shares offered for public subscription are payable two shillings and sixpence on application, and seventeen shillings and sixpence on allotment.
DIRECTORS:
FREDERICK JOHN LESLIE DUNLOP
(Chairman and Managing Director The Australian Investment Trust Limited).
SIR HUGH E. POYNTER, Bart.
(Director The Australian Investment Trust Limited;
Chairman Baldwin’s and J.C.M. (Aust.) Pty. Limited).
ALBERT EDWARD BARTON,
Consulting Chartered Accountant (Aust.), O’Connell Street, Sydney.
JAMES BLACKWOOD
(Managing Director J. Blackwood and Son, Ltd., Engineers,
Sussex Street, Sydney).
HAMILTON THOMAS
(Thomas and Ross Limited, Knitted Goods Manufacturers).
[Two additional directors may be appointed.]
SOLICITORS:
MESSRS. MINTER, SIMPSON & COMPANY,
Hunter Street, Sydney.
AUDITORS:
MESSRS. ROBERT W. NELSON & CO.,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.), Challis House, Sydney.
BANKERS:
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
BROKERS:
PHILIP PRING & DOCKER,
Q. N. Bank Chambers, Pitt and Hunter Streets, Sydney.
OBJECTS.
a cornpany is being formed for the purpose of acquiring from the liquidators of George
A ; Bond and Company, Limited (In Liquidation) and Geo. A. Bond Cotton Mills, Limited (In
Liquidation) the whole of the assets of the two companies as going concerns, and to carry on the
business of Hosiery and Underwear Manufacturers, Cotton Spinners, and such other activities as
are authorised by the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the company.
The formation of the company is the outcome of offers dated August 16, 1929, made by a
group of creditors known as the offerors to the liquidators of George A. Bond and Company,
Limited (In Liquidation) and George A. Bond Cotton Mills, Limited' (In Liquidation). These
offers provide (inter alia ) the formation of a company with a capital of £500,000 to purchase
the assets and undertakings of the aforesaid companies, to relieve the companies in liquidation
from all liability to secured creditors, to pay in cash all liabilities of the Cotton Mills Company,
all other debts not exceeding £lOO, and all liabilities incurred since the commencement of
nqindation, to issue debentures and deposit certificates to all other creditors of George A. Bond
and Company, Limited, and to the preference shareholders of George A. Bond Cotton Mills,
Limited. These offers have been approved by the Supreme Court of New South Wales in its
Equitable Jurisdiction, and accepted by the liquidators. Copies of the offers may be obtained at
the office of the company’s brokers, Messrs. Philip Pring & Docker, Q. N. Bank Chambers, Pitt and
Hunter Streets, Sydney.
PURCHASE PRICE.
The approximate purchase price for the two undertakings, based upon the balance-sheets of
June 30, 1929, is £833,373/4/10, to be satisfied as follows:
Issue of debentures (and deposit certificates for fractions of £100) to
creditors of Geo. A. Bond & Co., Ltd. (In Liquidation) estimated at £395,641 6 5
Issue of debentures and deposit certificates to Preference Shareholders of
Geo. A. Bond Cotton Mills, Ltd. (In Liquidation) 114,000 0 0
lo take over and discharge other liabilities, viz.:—
George A. Bond & Co., Ltd. (In Liquidation) :■ —-
Mortgages £126,676 15 6
Bank overdraft . . . . . . . . . . . . 76,711 10 8
Creditors in liquidation under £lO0 —creditors since
liquidation and secured claims . . . . . . 71,970 2 5
Georg'e A. Bond Cotton Mills, Ltd. (In Liquidation)—
Creditors 48,378 9 10
323,736 18 5
£833,378 4 10
DEBENTURE ISSUE.
The debentures and deposit certificates are repayable in five years and carry interest at
seven per cent, per annum payable half-yearly. The debentures are to be charged by way of
floating security upon all the assets and undertakings of the purchasing company both present
and future but subject to the amount of the charges existing as on the date fixed for the delivery
of possession of the purchasing company in respect of the secured debts owing by George A. Bond
and Company, Limited (In Liquidation), and subject also to the right of the purchasing company
(Bond’s Industries, Limited) to maintain or create specific mortgages or floating charges upon its
assets and undertaking ranking in priority to the said debentures, but so that the total amount
cf such prior mortgages and/or charges (including the amount of charges for existing secured
debts) shall not exceed £280,000.
VALUATION OF ASSETS.
For the purpose of the recent application by the liquidators to the Supreme Court in its
Equitable Jurisdiction to approve of the sale, valuations of the assets as going concerns were
submitted by the liquidators and are summarised hereunder -
Freehold Property and Buildings (as per valuations by Richardson and
Wrench, Ltd., and Stanton & Son, Ltd.) . . £223,729 0 0
Plant and Machinery (as per valuations by P. A. Wells, F. R. Banyard and
J. Sonnerdale), Motor Cars, Lorries, Office Furniture, Fittings, etc. 212,271 3 7
Stock on hand . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 383,487 0 1
Sundry Debtors and Bills Receivable 88,887 19 10
Cash and Commonwealth Loans . . . . .. .. .. . . . . 16,616 16 8
Prepayments 1,782 18 5
Approximate Purchase Price
£926,774 18 7
833,378 4 10
Approximate Surplus of Valuations over Purchase Price . . . . . . £93,396 13 9
The book values of tangible assets at June 30, 1929, as disclosed by the balance-sheets of the
two companies, amounted to £1,235,220. Accepting the lower figure as submitted by the
liquidators, it will be seen that the new company already possesses a very substantial reserve of
about £93,396, representing the surplus value of the transferred tangible assets over the purchase
price. This surplus will be increased by the amount of the anticipated net profit earned from
June 30, 1929, to the date of taking over. There is no goodwill item, although the goodwill of
the two concerns is probably worth a considerable sum.
The assets and liabilities at the date of delivery will necessarily differ from the June balance-
sheets by the movements in the financial position during the intervening period. The debentures
to be issued will be increased by interest on “interest-bearing” debts from July 1, 1929, and by
further accrued dividends on the Cotton Company shares, but this will be more than offset by
reductions in other liabilities and/or variations in Stock and Book Debts. On the whole the
financial position should be considerably more favorable on the date of delivery than is indicated
by the June, 1929, figures.
FINANCE.
The directors are confident that there will be no difficulty in obtaining a transfer of the
company’s mortgages or in procuring sufficient accommodation from the company’s bankers, so that
the share capital now being offered will provide adequate working capital apart from any amount
that may be subscribed by the preference shareholders of George A. Bond & Company, Limited
(In Liquidation), who have the right to take up 150,000 shares. The capital subscribed by these
shareholders could therefore be used to redeem or purchase a portion of the debenture issue at an
early date.
NET PROFIT.
The net profit disclosed to, the Court by the liquidators of George A. Bond and
Company, Limited, for the year ended June 30, 1929, amounted to . . £80,864 2 7
After allowing liquidators’ commission (non-recurring in future) £24,934 19 11
And provision for taxation in liquidators’ account • • • • 4,740 12 4
29,675 12 3
Making a total of .. •• £110,539 14 10
The Cotton Mills business has been conducted by the liquidators of Geo. A. Bond & Co.,
Limited, on a profit earning basis during the 12 months, and in order to cope with the increased
demand for yarn owing to the additional protection given by the new tariff will shortly be working
three shifts daily.
Taking the figures given above as a basis, the profits of the combined under-
takings would be .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £110,539 0 0
Less directors’ fees, £3OOO per annum, and management and secretarial charges,
estimated at £5OOO per annum, income tax. estimated at £15,000 per
annum .. .. . . . . . . . . .. .. . . . . 23,000 0 0
Leaving .. . . . . .. .. .. .. ~ ■. .. £87,539 0 0
Deduct interest on debentures, say .. .. .. .. •• •• 35,70000
Surplus available for dividends on capital and for reserves on the basis of a
paid-up capital of £150,000 .. .. •• •• •• •• £51,839 0 0
The following extract from the liquidators’ report for the year ended June 30, 1929, shows
that the stock then on hand was either checked or taken by independent accountants and by them
certified as correct:—
“Stocks on hand at June 30, 1929, have been valued upon such a basis as would allow a
full margin of gross profit if disposed of in the ordinary course of business. On this occasion,
stocks have been independently taken and certified to as to quantities in all centres by leading
firms of Chartered Accountants, and in our opinion, manufactured goods on hand were reasonably
clean and merchantable, having regard to the seasonable nature of the business.
“....The company’s accounts for the year have been subjected to audit, and this work has
been carried out in Western Australia by Messrs. Flack & Flack ; in South Australia, Tasmania
and Victoria by Messrs. Davey, Balding & Company; and in Queensland by Messrs. Thompson
and Sharland. In New South Wales a cash audit has been conducted by Messrs. Smith, Johnson
and Company. In all centres stocks have been—as to quantities—either independently checked
or taken, and debtors’ accounts scrutinised by the several firms mentioned, and such items are
covered by their certificates.”
DEPRECIATION.
Provision amounting to £33,314/6/9 for the year has been made by the liquidators of
George A. Bond & Co., Limited, in respect of depreciation on Plant and Machinery of that company
on the basis of original values.
In view of the purchase price being substantially below book values, provision to this extent
would not be necessary in future, and the profits could probably be increased by some £15,000
in this respect.
TARIFF.
The new company will reap the benefit of the heavy additional duties now'levied on hosiery
which were introduced since the liquidators closed their books on June 30 last, as the field for
the company’s products is widened by the exclusion of many of the cheaper lines formerly
imported. The goods produced by the liquidators are. in active demand, and the company should
be on a dividend-paying basis from the date of the transfer of the old undei takings.
MANAGEMENT.
Arrangements have been made to continue the practical management of the undertaking, as
established by the liquidators, and which has proved so successful. The failure of George A. Bond
and Company, Limited, was due to causes which are sufficiently widely known. The unsatisfactory
features of the past management have been totally eliminated.
PRODUCTS AND TURNOVER.
The products of the company are well and favorably known and enjoy wide distribution
in Australasia and the Islands. Branch warehouses of the company are situate in Brisbane,
Newcastle, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth and Launceston. During the past two years modern
machinery has been installed, and the output is believed to be second to none of its kind in
the world, and certainly has no superior of local manufacture. .
For the five years prior to liquidation the sales averaged £975,000 per annum, and during
the two years of liquidation have exceeded £1,000,000 per annum, and since 30th June last
the combined sales of hosiery, underwear and cotton yarn have been fully maintained.
ADVERTISING.
Since the inception of the company in 1920 a sum exceeding £250,000 has been disbursed
in advertising its products. This expenditure has created a goodwill of considerable value, and
should ensure that the company’s output will continue to be freely m demand.
FINANCIAL SUPERVISION.
During the liquidation the operations at the company’s branches have been subject to
the continuous audit and financial supervision by leading firms of Chartered Accoutants, and the
directors propose to continue this policy. The new company will *also secure the seivices o
Robert W. Nelson and Co. as auditors, the principal of this firm formerly being co-liquidatoi
and latterly sole liquidator of George A. Bond and Company Limited.
CONTRACTS.
No contracts have been made on behalf of the company, but copies of the offers dated
respectively 16th August, 1929, above referred to as being made by a group of creditors to
tile liquidators of George A. Bond and Co., Ltd., and George A. Bond Cotton Mills, Ltd.,
together with the liquidators’ acceptances of such offers, are available for inspection at the
offices of Messrs. Minter, Simpson and Company, 31 Hunter Street, Sydney, or Messrs. Philip
Pring and Docker, Stock and Share Brokers, Q. N. Bank Chambers, Pitt and Hunter Streets,
Svdney. The group of creditors referred to comprise: Messrs. J. Blackwood, Hamilton Thomas,
Abel Lemon and Co. Pty., Ltd., Winns Ltd., Alfred Edward, William Allen, R. R. Morrison,
W. Ainsworth, J. C. Ainsworth, L. J. Foster and J. T. McKee. , „
A copy is also available at each of the abovenamed offices of the contract dated 16tn
August, 1929, between The Australian Investment Trust, Limited, as underwriter, and the liquida-
tors of George A. Bond and Company, Limited, to ensure the underwriting of one hundred
thousand of the company’s shares.
INSURANCES.
The assets of the company are insured against fire risk to their full book value, and the
profits and standing charges are also covered by insurance.
LISTING OF SHARES.
Application will be made in due course for the listing of the shares now offered for sub-
scription on the Stock Exchanges of the various capital cities.
UNDERWRITING AND BROKERAGE.
The Australian Investment Trust Limited has entered into an agreement to underwrite
100,000 shares for a consideration of 71 per cent., out of which a brokerage of sixpence per
share will be paid by the underwriters on allotments in respect of applications lodged by
members of recognised Stock Echanges.
PRELIMINARY EXPENSES
Expenses attendant upon the formation of the company, including brokerage and commis-
sion, will be borne by the company.
FORM OF APPLICATION.
Form of application for shares is attached hereto and must be accompanied by a remit-
tance of 2/6 per share. In the event of over-subscription, the directors reserve the right to
make a pro rata allotment.
GENERAL.
The directors have no hesitation in recommending this issue to intending investors. The
business is now firmly established; its trading conditions have been placed upon a reasonable
basis, and the quality of its output vastly improved, while it is being acquired upon excep-
tionally favorable terms. This will give the company a substantial advantage over present and
prospective competitors not so favored as regards capital outlay.
On the basis given the profits are sufficient to allow the payment of an attractive rate of
dividend on the capital subscribed, and to provide for spbstantial reserves and retirement of
debentures from time to time.
Application for Shares,
BOND’S INDUSTRIES LIMITED.
To the Directors
BOND’S INDUSTRIES LIMITED ,
C'/o The Australian Investment Trust, Ltd., 17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
I request you •to allot me on the incorporation of the Company... Ordinary
Shares of One Pound each in the above Company, and I enclose -herewith the sum of £
being.. per share on application.
I undertake to pay the sum of .* per share on allotment.
I agree to accept the said shares or any smaller number which may be allotted to me,
and I authorise you to register me as the holder of the said shares and to be bound by the
Memorandum and Articles of the Company.
DAIED this . . .. day .of ■ . . . 1930
Name in fidl i .
Signature
Description
Fidl Address
Witness to Signature


FORESTRY
BONDS
During the past two or three
years hundreds o f thousands of
pounds have been invested in
Forestry bonds and shares.
“The ‘Wild Cat*
Monthly”
for February will discuss some of
these ventures, and show what
Forestry results have been in
S. Australia.
It will show that figures which
have been quoted are grossly mis-
leading.
“The ‘Wild Cat*
Monthly” is a guide
no Australian investor, great or
small, can afford to be without..
It is independent and plain-
spoken.
Let it help to save you from
losses.
FEBRUARY NUMBER NOW
ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/- ; PER ANNUM,
22/6. From Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
# * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * #
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
*
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.—Norman Hill & Co.,
Ltd., Cathca'rt House, Sydney, Rep. largest American
and European Smelters. Buyers Dirty Tin Ores,
Copper, Lead, Gold, Silver, Antimony, Wolfram,
Scheelite, Tantalite, Molybdenite, and other ores and
concentrates. Properties examined and reported on.
—Advt.
❖ ❖ #
Pioneer Wood Pipe is proving itself a remark-
ably durable conduit. Pipe lines that have been
down for over 20 years are found to be in practically
as sound a condition as when first installed. In
addition to this factor of durability, Pioneer Wood
Pipe is absolutely non-corrosive, costs less than metal
pipe and is easier and cheaper to lay, transport and
freight. Write for illustrated data book to The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road
(near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; and at
Footscray, Victoria. — -Advt.
$ $ * $
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
d
The
four largest
driving belts
in the
Southern
Hemisphere
PION EER
LEATHER
BELTING
More Power for the
Wheels of Industry
There are two things which have made
“Pioneer” Belting famous in Australian
Industry—the finest leather and the
expert knowledge and supervision in its
manufacture.
That the name “Pioneer” is synono-
mous with greater transmission efficiency
is best demonstrated by its selection
for the majority of industrial plants.
For dependable, efficient and economical
power-transmission specify
PIONEER" BELTING
Made and guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
PIONEER HOUSE, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire ,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting- Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ADFIELDS
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadlields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works ind (
Foundries i
Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W.
Bassendean, Perth, W.A.
Branch l
Office J
422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Vic.
T. & G. Building, Brisbane. Q
respect remains unimpaired so far as the pub-
lished figures are concerned. That is because
the directors, recognising that the unsound
features of the trade were likely to cause
trouble sooner or later, made provision for
such a contingency by unobtrusively putting
a bit aside wherever opportunity offered.
Thus they have been able to bring from
hiding £lOO,OOO of the inner reserves, which
together with a handful of transfer fees and
£44,445 brought forward completely wiped
out the loss, and the co. starts the current
term with £39,103 on the credit side of its
p. and 1. account. Also the visible lay-by
is only £5342 short of the 1928 figure.
Here is the skeleton of the business as
balance-sheet figures reveal it: —
1925. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Liabilities . . £699,379 £538,482 £534,112 £752,702
Fixed assets.. 755,545 770,872 774,164 764,144
Other assets. . 726,201 576,851 582,519 773,972
The more or less liquid surplus (£21,270)
was only £27,137 lighter than at the previous
balance, notliwithstauding the declared loss
on the year’s trading. Much obviously de-
pends upon the figure at which unrealised
consignments were taken into account. The
shrinkage of £lO,OOO in the book value of
fixed assets was mainly because the co.’s
premises at Smitlifield, England, which were
destroyed by fire during the year, were only
partly rebuilt when the books closed. The
co.’s five works are reported to be main-
tained fin good order out of revenue, and the
electrification of the Imlay plant is proceed-
ing without addition to the capital account.
The outlook for the current year is one of
bigger slaughterings, without much prospect
of prices strengthening. The pound shares,
priced at 19s. a year ago, were recently on
offer at 13s. At the latter figure the return
is 7.7 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The visible
backing amounts to 245. Bd. in net tangibles,
mostly in plant, worth what it can be made
to bring in.
Associated Dominions Assurance.
Considering that the field is overcrowded
and the path strewn with difficulties for the
newcomer, whq, at best, cannot hope, for a
while at any rate, to earn for policy-holders
the benefits to be had from soundly estab-
lished offices, it is difficult to discover any
public need for new life cos. at present.
Nevertheless, the Associated Dominions
Assurance Society, Ltd., a Sydney concern,
joined in the race on July 1, 1928, having
registered with a nominal capital of £250,000
a few months earlier. The co.’s articles pro-
vided that W. T. Page, the promoter, shall be
managing director, and shall not be liable to
be removed from that office so long as he
holds 2000 shares in the society. Further,
the society agreed to pay him £20,000 in
fully paids for arranging re-insurances from
two other cos., representing an annual re-
venue of about £60,000. Payment of the
consideration is spread over four years—
£62oo in 1928 and the balance in three
annual instalments of £4600 each.
At June 30, 1929, the Dominions’ paid
capital was £BB5O in 6207 fully paids (the
odd seven are the signatory shares with
wfliich the co. was registered) and 26,430
contribs. paid to 2s. each; thus the cash-paid
capital was £2643. Of the contribs. Mr.
Page held 20,250.
The re-insurance premiums received by the
Dominions during the 12 months to June 30
last were from the Associated Deposits
Assurance Society, Ltd. —a concern regis-
tered in Sydney in 1926 and limited by
guarantee. It was the upshot of the trouble
into which the A.N;A., Ltd. (limited by
guarantee in 1920; prior to that registered
as a friendly society pure and simple), got
itself when it extended to Victoria. So
the position now is that the business, or a
substantial part of it, gathered at consider-
able cost by what are virtually mutual con-
cerns, has been transferred to an ordinary
joint-stock limited-liability co., not by
novation of the policies, but by re-insurance.
Thus, instead of the whole of whatever pro-
fits may be earned on the policies in question
belonging to policy-holders, part of them will
become available for dividends amongst
shareholders in the Dominions Co. What
would be likely to happen if, say, the A.M.P.
reinsured all but a trifle of its business with
a newly-formed joint-stock co. ? The “Wild
Cat” bristles at the thought!
For the year to June 30, 1929, the De-
posits Society reinsured with the Dominions
1056 Ordinary policies assuring £223,797,
yielding an annual premium income of
£7679 ; also 16,127 Industrial policies assur-
ing £590,016. with an annual premium in-
come of £51,862, as well as a block of other
business—details are not given—on which a
premium of £16,614 was paid. The
Dominions wrote some other business as well,
and its net premium income for the year was
£82,702 —Ordinary, £10,769; Industrial,
£55,008; Accident, £231 and the £16,614 just
referred to. Interest amounted to £1437,
making total income £84,139. The excess
of income over outgo was £32,648. But it
was evidently not considered enough, for
there was a small addition of £398 to the
establishment on account of revenue. Though
apparently no valuation off liabilities was
made, a bonus of £2 per cent, on whole of
life and £1 per cent, on endowment assur-
ances was recommended in the Ordinary de-
partment.
At June 30, 1929, the co.’s tangible assets
were: Government securities. £28,897 ; mort-
gages, £2613 ; book debts, £42SI; equipment,
£3051; total, £38,842. Liabilities other than
those under policies amounted to £3303. Net
tangibles (£35,539) thus exceeded the
amount of the life fund by £2493. To
represent the £Bsso of share capital, the
“reserve fund” of £33,761, and £399 set aside
for unexpired accident risks and premiums
in suspense, there is an “establishment
account” of £40,517.
Exactly what the “reserve fund,” which
did not arise out of the revenue account, is
doing in the sheet at all needs explanation.
Little, if any, tangible assets appear to have
been taken over to cover whatever accrued
actuarial liability there may be under some
of the re-insured policies. The real position
will remain obscure until the actuary makes
his valuation, which the chairman says w,u
be at the close of next accounts. Meantime,
all that can be said definitely is that the
reserve fund as well as the bulk of the capi-
tal is not represented by anything either
visible or tangible.
The report of the Royal Commission on
mining in Queensland'is long overdue, but it
is rumored that it is practically complete
and should soon be handed to the Cabinet.
It will be received with hope by some and
derision by others, who know quite well what
is wrong with the industry in Bananaland
and don't need a commission to tell them.
Fred Brown, of Koorboora mines, told the
Commission quite forcibly how to improve
matters. However, the report will probably
represent the serious effort of a serious-
minded personnel to tell Queensland how to
develop her undoubted mineral riches. But
political and economic considerations are
likely to be awkward barriers.
* * * *
C. J. Levien, one of those chiefly respon-
sible for the formation of Guinea Gold, went
looking for new pastures when the co. decided
to dispose of its Edie and Bulolo holdings.
He has returned to civilisation, and reports
having opened up a lot of new country, pene-
trating to the head of the Ramu, which
rises in very rough country on the opposite
watershed to the Markham, and flows in the
opposite direction. Gold traces he found
everywhere, but, as Mat Crowe once said,
“there is a h —ll of a lot of New Guinea
mixed up with it.” However, two flats, each
of some hundred acres, give evidence of con-
centration. There is heavy clay overburden,
and boring would be necessary to test values.
* * * *
• Tanami has announced that Great Tanami,
the parent co. in London, is forming a co.
with a capital of £250,000 to work its
properties extensively. The Federal Govern-
ment has been asked to assist in opening
a direct road from railhead, at Alice Springs,
with shallow wells sunk at regular intervals.
In addition to making the field more acces-
sible —it would bring Tanami within eight
days of Sydney as against six weeks at
present—the new road would provide the
cattlemen of East Kimberley with a safe
route, to the southern markets.
* *’ * *
The tantalite and tin show discovered last
year by the Gitsham-Johnston party on the
Finniss River, close to Darwin, has attracted
the attention of the South Aus. Mutooroo
Copper Co., which has taken a working
option for four months. The deposit looks
important, and, moreover, is within easy
reach of rail and sea transport.
* * * *
Chairman F. H‘. Hamilton made the most
of the co.’s Westralian interests at a meeting
of Associated Mining and Finance, Ltd., held
in London the other day. As regards Wiluna
he said that values in some parts of the mine
were being more than maintained at depth, ,
and that exhaustive tests point to a recovery
of gold in excess of the original estimates.
It was true that the time and cost of bring-
ing the show to production had been con-
siderably under-estimated, but with provision
made for a bigger output than was first con-
templated shareholders would reap the benefit
in the long run. Meanwhile the extra cost
and delay would have to be reckoned with.
Referring to the Associated goldmine, the
co.’s other Westralian interest, Hamilton
said that while no prediction regarding the
future over any length of time could safely
be made, the co. continues to yield a small
profit, and there were possibilities in ground
which has not yet been fully explored.
* * * *
J. A. Agnew, chairman Lake View and
Star, in reply to requests to reconcile the
poor yields obtained for many years with the
highly profitable results prophesied recently,
stated: “The discrepancy was accounted for
by the method of stoping—the shrinkage
system—practised. By this system a per-
centage.of broken ore remained in the stopes
to be drawn off later as required, and during
the drawing-off process portion of valueless
wall-rock fell into the stopes and in due
course accompanied the ore to the treatment
plant, thus reducing the grade. This system
of stoping was to be discontinued except in
cases where the wall-rock was sufficiently
hard to stand without support.” He should
have added that the shrinkage system obviated
the use of stope timber, thereby saving costs.
If the system be replaced by timbering, the
gain in grade is likely to be offset by the
ever rising cost of timber.
* * * *
Prospector Peter Kilmartin recently caused
a stir by striking gold in an ironstone and
quartz lode near Koolyanobbing Range, 45
miles n.e. of Southern Cross. Koolyanob-
bing is a high and rough spot rising out of
the plain, and gold and copper have been
found there. Twenty-five years ago a five-
stamp mill was erected, but worked for
only a few months. Ivilmartin’s show is
between the Range and the old Southern
Cross-Meiizies track over which many
teamsters did a perish in the early days,
trying to get “tinned-dog” to out-back fields.
The find consists of a pothole exposing a
lode 12 inches wide, value loz. per ton. Dur-
ing summer the spot is in a wide waterless
area, but winter rains fill a big claypan
nearby. The locality may then be worth a
trial by prospectors.
* * * *
C. 11. Wray declares that he has acquired
the alluvial gold reservation at Lake Austin
(W.A.) on behalf of New Consolidated Gold-
fields, Ltd., London, and not for “a private
syndicate” including President Hoover and
J. A. Agnew, who have nothing to do with
the reservation privately. Wray adds that
after revisiting Westralia in September last
he induced the New Consolidated Goldfields,
Ltd., to spend a trifle to determine whether
the deposits are worth following up.
* * * *
Aust. and General Asbestos Co., which
seems to have lots of faith and little cash,
held its annual roll-up in Loudon the other
day. The co.’s best Australian interest is
at Pilbara (W.A.), where some asbestos
deposits are being mined in a hand-to-mouth
way. The question of raising additional
capital, so that production can be increased
tenfold, is now being considered.
* # ♦ *
“O’Hell”: Like “O.B.” (B. '5/2/’3O) I
wish to say something about Wiluna. First
of all the controllers talked of costs not ex-
ceeding 20s. on the treatment of 40s. ore;
then a new manager reported that perhaps
a profit of 10s. a ton on the treatment of
40,000 tons a month might be maintained.
Now part of the board’s time is taken up in
strenuously denying reports that the extrac-
tion problem is not yet solved. It looks as
though we shall not know Wiluna’s fate until
the first clean-up in about 15 months’ time.
* * * *
Rawang Concessions, Alluvial Tin’s latest
working bantjing, has issued its second
annual report. Though the dredge set in
only last July, a working profit of £34,000
was shown by the end of October. The
dredge had recovered 355 tons t.o. in 1976
working hours. Money borrowed to bring
the mine to the production stage had been
repaid, and the first divvy was handed out
in December —something of a record in tin
dredging. The accounts as made up to the
end of May show paid-up capital at £199,725.
Nominal capital is £200,000 in £1 shares.
The directors, while calling attention to the
initial high recoveries, frankly point out that
work began in the richest section of the
property, and that the present values are
above the average of the property as a
whole. The final quarter of November
showed an average recovery of 1.651 b. per
c.y., so there is a fair margin for shrinkage.
Kampong Lanjut, another latecomer to
the Alluvial group, also shows a satisfactory
report and balance-sheet. No. 1 dredge
recovered 120 tons oxide in the 1462 hours’
run to October 31, this returning £7500
profit. Authorised capital is £300,000, now
all paid up, considerably higher than that
of any other original Alluvial float, as dis-
tinguished from amalgamations. Two
dredges of 180,000 c.y. capacity per month
were ordered, and the material for No. 2
is now on the ground; it is expected the
plant will be working by April. It was
originally estimated that a recovery of 50
tons a month from each dredge would pay
well with metal at £2OO, London. Values
have dropped, but the recoveries from No.
1 dredge for the last quarter averaged 66.33
tons per month. If No. 2 can play up to
that, there should be good profits, even if
the restriction of output to which Lanjut,
in common with other Alluvial flotations, is
pledged continues. An outstanding item in
the report is that the dredge builders have
been paid off thus early in the piece, and
that creditors are owed only £3222.
* * *
Rangeng, a Siamese show floated in Mel-
bourne which began digging last September,
has published its annual report to August
31 last. At that date development had run
off with £13,968, including £7208 from the
previous year. Mine expenditure was £5299.
and other outgo £1461. Paid capital figured
at £79,712, and sundry creditors at £18,894;
also there was £7562 contingent liability in
relation to the 10 p.c. div. on the 38,625
cum. prefs. The dredge stood at £51,467;
mine, £14,572; cash, £2655. At the begin-
ning of dredging operations dirty water in
the paddock interfered with the adjustment
of the jigs, this accounting for the poor
early returns. A pumping plant has now
assured plenty of clean water, but the dredge
has been giving trouble, and faulty parts are
to be replaced by the contractors. An
adjoining area has been taken up on E.P.L.,
but until matters improve this will not be
tested. In the five months the dredge has
been working 46.95 tons of oxide has been
recovered, averaging 9.40 tons per month.
The January return of 17.85 tons is a big
improvement on its predecessors, averaging
.721 b. per yard.
On the market sellers ask 13s. for the
ords. paid to 125.. after earlier sales at 9s.
* * * *
As anticipated, most of the Bolivian tin
interests have swung behind the Tin Pro-
ducers’ Association in the endeavor to stabil-
ise metal prices. The local Patino group
and the American-controlled Aramayo mines,
the latter under the wing of the Guggen-
lieims, have announced their adherence to the
association and its policy of curtailment.
This means that 80 per cent, of the Bolivian
production is now under the control of the
Producers’ Association, thus linking up with
Malayan and Nigerian tin interests in limi-
tation of output.


Ch
<52
<7
r
V.
Mi
t-
a
v\\\
?§
4^
<4i
m r
1
m
%
?y
ill
s^^~"
a
5^
Ci
T
A
rr.
//
BRASS SELLER-CAIRO
3
N addition to scenic and
historic interest and the
absorbing spectacle of the
cosmopolitan crowds, the traveller
finds shopping in Cairo a new and
delightful experience. The exotic
interest of the goods themselves
is heightened by the suave man-
ners and leisurely methods of the
Eastern merchant. Every pur
chase becomes a bookmark in
memory’s story of travel. A
special excursion to Cairo is
arranged for Orient Line passen-
gers disembarking at Suez and
rejoining at Port Said.
ORIENT LINE


m
m
mi
■ :,vv .
HMIII
in
' o ‘fnt'‘ o,ce ter *
? en °t; co«v> Ved
TS**£sS g
iogte“ ie ”\,oro“f aC .
me* odS ***JgS&
C ule <l ua l'tce a " d
‘ » 4 l4wi<
% w “ nr
Clyde Batteries for Cars, Radio and Home
Lighting are made by THE CLYDE EN-
GINEERING CO., LTD., GRANVILLE,
N.S.W., largest manufacturers of storage
batteries in Australia. Obtainable from
all garages and radio dealers.
-■* «.j*m
I i?
FOR CARS, RADIO & HOME LIGHTING
Clyde Radio
Battery.
BATTERY SALES AND
SERVICE DIVISION,
106-110 Goulburn Street,
Sydney.
Clyde Home
Lighting
Battery.
INTER-STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
QUEENSLAND: The Clyde Engineer-
ing Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Cornell,
Limited, Adelaide.
VICTORIA: The Clyde Engineering
Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
WEST. AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun and
Johnstone (W.A.) Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA: W. & G. Gonders Pty., Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
THE SILENT
BILLABONG”
DELIVERS
THE WATER
The semi-silent “Billabong” is Aus-
tralia’s favorite mill. It is unusually
strong and rigid. It is ball-bearing and
self-governing. It needs oiling only
half-yearly. It is moderately priced.
The mill for you.
DOUBLE THE WATER
WITH THIS
PATENTED "BILLABONG
PLUNGER VALVE
For mill pumps, it increases the output
of water up to one hundred per cent.
This new invention allows the mill to start
without the load in light breezes when other-
wise it would be idle.
The pump will function and start pumping
exactly the same as with the older type of
valve.
Make use of the light winds.
Have water when formerly your mill was
idle. Have thousands of more gallons in
normal winds.
Adaptable to most plunger pumps at a
moderate outlay. Can you do without it?
Write now for descriptive leaflet; also for
information on any other pumping matters.
. •••, .
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE,
C.l.
If,
\
a
Also ask about othet
Winchester Flashlights
serviceable, durable,
dependable and adap-
ted to etwrti ucp.
Light Wherever You
Turn Your Eyes
COMFORTABLY fastened to your hat or
forehead by a wide web elastic band,
this unique Winchester Flashlight turns
with your head, tilts at any desired angle
and throws its light wherever you turn
your head. Current is supplied through a
flexible cord connecting with a standard
Winchester Flashlight Battery in a special
case that slips into your pocket or clips to
your belt, thus leaving you both hands
free. An ideal light for farmers, mechan-
ics, doctors, dentists, bandsmen, motorists,
sportsmen and all others who need light
while using both their hands.
WINCHESTER REPEATING
ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN, CONN., U. S. A.. 19
WINCHESTER
TRADE MARK
HEADLIGHT


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers'
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
WHAT DOES SPENDING COST?
How much does it cost you to spend £100? The answer is
£ 1 00 down and at least £4 per annum for the rest of your life.
Yet what man would knowingly spend £lOO that put him
under obligation to pay £4 per year for life.
None, perhaps, but many do it unconsciously when they spend
money that might otherwise have earned interest at 4 per
cent, indefinitely.
Every pound you spend has attached to it an invisible string
of pennies which you' spend with it.
Keep your money in a Savings Account and earn, not spend,
4 per cent, interest per annum.
Sav to JBank of Bustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government),
52 Macleay St.
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT, SYDNEY
(Located within the City Boundary, ten
minutes from G.P.0 .)
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 160 rooms, is now open, and
features Single Rooms, Double
Rooms with Bath, and two-, three-
and four-room Suites with Bath.
Central Heating, Hot and Cold
Water, ’Phone and Bedside Lamp
in each room. Unsurpassed
Harbor views.
Telephone: F 2161 (8 lines).
Telegraphic Address: “Fifmac,"
Sydney.
ABORICINALITIES
MADE AUSTRLIA
THE QUALITY POLISH
KIWI
“Runa” : One Maoriland importation that
is justifying its admission to the Dominion is
the cinnabar moth, introduced to combat the
ragwort pest. These moths were released
only last year, but already they
have accounted for thousands of
ragwort plants, which they de-
nude of their leaves, thus killing
the plant. And they have not
increased unreasonably, oi
turned to any other diet.
* * , * ,
“Riroriro”: In the days
when a double-barrelled muzzle-
loader meant all the difference
between safety and the stock-
pot for Hori, flax fibre was
good trade for guns. The
tough old skippers trading from
Port Jackson to the Maoriland
coast (they had to be tough to
keep off the menu) used to buy
the fibre at the rate of a ton
for a gun. Flax was hand-
dressed in those days, scraped
down bit by bit with a sea-
shell. Hori had to hustle to buy
his gun, or he had to keep the
missus hustling. The wahines
did the flax dressing, and (old
hands used to say) produced a
better fibre than the mills have
ever done. It was slow work,
so while the traffic lasted Hori
preferred to trade in smoked
heads. Bagging them was
quicker and better sport. When
supplies ran low a slave was
sometimes tattooed with care
and his head paid into cur-
rent account against the coming
of a ship. While N. S. Wales
still had nominal oversight
over Maoriland some spoil-
sport stopped the trade in
heads. ■ But it is history that
flax, smoked heads and kauri
spars were Maoriland’s earliest
exports. Flax is the only one
staying the course.
“Tuppence” : When our little daughter was
born I was managing a station down the
river. I went to have a look at the latest
arrival. At dinner the night of my return
the housekeeper asked after the welfare of
Mrs. Penny and the little ha’penny and
turned to leave the room. At the door she
stopped. “Mr. Tuppence,” said she, “you
want eight more.” “Eh!” I gasped. “What
do you mean?” “Yes,” she continued, “you
want eight more.” “Not _on your life, I
don’t,” I protested. “Eight more! I don’t
want eight more.” “Yes, you do,” the house-
keeper asserted. “You don’t ate near enough.
You want ate more.”
THE SOLUTION.
TRAVELLER: “I’m stuck; I’ve tried everything, but I can’t get it to go.”
WILLIAM JOHN: “Have ’ee tried pushin’ it, Maister?”
"Toggle” : Tinnope, our cook, was the best
educated bloke in camp, so when poor old
Jerry died we naturally got him to read the
burial service. Everything took a bit longer
THE RETORT COURTEOUS.
THE CAPTAIN ( sarcastically ): “I. say, my man, do you always shave outside?”
THE GROUCH: “Gorblime, yes — d’yer think I’m furlined?”
than we expected, and we were running
pretty late, but there was no real hitch till
Tinnope got about half-way through. Then the
leaves of the prayer-book jambed. Tinnope
tried to prize them apart, he tried to blow
them iapart, then he tried coaxing, but
finesse was never his strong point. We could
see he was getting flurried. Finally he
finished up impromptu. “Boys,” he said,
“that’ll have to do. Earth to earth, ashes
to ashes —I can smell me brownie burning.”
* * * *
“Caractacus”: Scores of rhymsters have
sung of the deeds of the Australian horse-
man, but the equally daring and efficient
Australian horse-driver has almost been over-
looked—outside the almost extinct reinsmen
of Cobb and Co. There are bushmen who in
their daily rounds do remarkable feats of
horse-guiding through roadless (in places
trackless) country with buckboard, wag-
gonette and dray. I have seen them tear
along “sidlings” where any slip means death
hundreds of feet below; race through timber
so close that swinglettees touched _ a tree-
trunk each side of the vehicle; swim their
pair through creeks and haul the buggy after
on a long line yoked to the traces; gallop
down awful pinches, too steep for horses to
breech or brakes to hold. And often they have
to use half-broken maneaters that cannot be
started at real work until they have got rid
of their bad humors in a five-mile bolt across
paddocks.
* -f =l= *
“Larrapinta”: “Mudurup” hasn’t men-
tioned Australia’s best-known “Ninety-mile
Beach” in his list of strips of sea-coast so
named (B. 29/l/’3O). It runs south from
the Murray mouth (S.A.) to Lacepede Bay,
and its length is slightly over 90 miles —an
unbroken stretch of level beach, backed by
sand-dunes, with a heavy surf perpetually
thundering in on it. Just over the sand-
hills at the back of this beach lies that sports-
man’s and angler’s paradise, the long salt-
water swamp called the Coorong.
He * $
“Up North”: The abo. is unbeatable in
his quest for tucker. Though no agriculturist,
he knows just when and where to burn off
the grass so that the coming shower will
bring up those luscious shoots that attract
’roo and wallaby. In the Seven Rivers
country along the west coast of Cape York
Peninsula,‘‘he claps underwater in a manner
which invariably attracts a school of por-
poises in the shoaling season. The mouth of
the Batavia River is a favored spot. The
porpoises' drive the shoaling fish into the
shallows, where Binghi, with spear and
scoop-net, collects his commission. A flock
of sea-birds swooping low upon the water is
a welcome sight to Binghi, who joyfully
launches his canoes and scoops his quota
from the harassed fish. He knows every spot
on the coast where storms wall throw up food
from the sea, and every lagoon that an extra-
fierce summer will dry up, leaving him cray-
and shell-fish.
i\: Jfc ❖ ❖
“Jamal” : Men who have carried the swag
with Lawson and dossed in the Domain with
Billy Hughes are legion; you meet them
along the waterways—and beerways—of the
back country by the dozen. But one of the
queerest claims to notice in this regard is
made by an old swaggie who haunts the
Moree (N.S.W.) district, and who produces
a faded and much wrinkled letter which he
claims was written to him by Ned Kelly.
Except for a word here and there the writing
is undecipherable, though the old ’un swears
that it originally contained a statement of
the Kellys’ plan to rob the bank at Jerilderie.
Who the ancient is nobody seems to know,
and, anyway, you don’t question an old cove
like that —-especially a thirsty old cove—at
a busli pub in summer-time.
* * * *
“Gouger”: Queer reptiles and insects live
in the cloudy scrub where. the Rocky River
heads in Cape York Peninsula. Their resi-
dential s are 2000 feet above sea-level; their
water supply is a bouldery torrent, icy cold:
their music is the wind in the gorges and the
patter of drops from rain-sodden leaves. At
night our camp attracted snakes 'whose
bodies gleamed eerily in bluish-green, for there
were teeming phosphorescent insects upon
the leaves. Uncanny lights glowed far in
among the glistening trunks, where fungi as
large as a cabbage shone in yellow-green
effulgence. Occasionally the butt of a tree
would be completely clothed in pink fungi.
At night, also, flights of bees settled upon
the camp. We took refuge under strong mos-
quito nets that became so clogged by squirm-
ing hosts that at times we found it difficult
to breathe. We were after gold, but all the
gold we saw was on beetles’ wings.
* -f * *
“Alfred O’Toole”: It isn’t so long since
shearers travelled hundreds of miles from one
shed to another, with saddle-horse and pack-
horse or heavily-loaded push-bike, and were
away from home for months till the sheds
along the rivers were cut out. In the wilds
where I now live you may see parties of
silk-socked shearers and rousies hiring big
touring-cars and roaring out 80 or 90 miles
to the sheds, with wireless sets inside and suit-
cases strapped to the running-board. They
shear for six weeks or so and then ring up
the garage to bring them back to town,
where they wait for the next shed to start.
One ringer I know drives his own taxi for
hire in his home town between sheds.
(Continued on page 25.)
JOE’S ADVICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘I useter think that I wuz wise to wimmen
an’ their ways;
I alius reckoned that I’d be a-batchin’ all
me days;
For single livin’ seemed to be a’ead o’ mar-
ried bliss”—
He gave the baby’s pram a push—“an’ yet
I’ve come to this 1
‘Me an’ a mate were scoopin’ dams for
’Arris at the Springs,
An’ there were crowds o’ gals about —
appealin’ sorter things;
But I wuz blind to all their charms. I
didn’t never see
That they were anglin’ fer a bite, an’ that
the fish wuz me.
“But once I let meself be took to Jones’s
Sundee night.
I didn’t wanter go—but then I wuz a mug
all right.
The lady o’ the ’ouse wuz cute, an’ put me
nex’ to Jane. .
An’ w’en nex’ Sundee night came round I
went to tea again.
“ ‘These scones are Jane’s,’ the old gal says ;
‘she made those cream-puffs, too.
You want a woman in your ’ut to cook the
likes for you.’
I thought if Jane could make these things
she might be worth a trial,
Though she did ’ave big ’ands an’ feet an’
freckles on ’er dial.”
He paused and then went on, “Ole man, they
worked it pretty crook.
They weren’t ’er scones—that gal must be
the world’s worst flamin’ cook.
So take a fool’s advice, me boy, or you’ll be
caught like me.
If there are gals about a place, well, don’t
go there for tea.”
VICTORIA.
P. T. F.


General Motors Car
—look inside and note the differencel
0
•*
Oldsmobile Owners
give their cars unstinted
and justified
m
A
WM.
LZ3IO
a
('XX
THE car buyer who searches for the highest
indication of value in any car finds no greater
proof than does he who investigates Oldsmobile
through the experience of those who own it.
To ask any Oldsmobile owner his frank opinion
of his car is to listen to convincing selling talk that
only an owner could give.
Oldsmobile owners, everywhere, are singing the
praises of Oldsmobile. “The way she took the hills
was a revelation,” writes one satisfied owner. . . .
“The Oldsmobile stands alone for comfort, speed,
acceleration, and economy,” this from a motorist
of long standing. . . . “I consider the Oldsmobile
absolutely the best value on the market” . . . these
and many others, from the most critical motorists
in a motoring age, all tell a story of complete owner
satisfaction.
Your nearest Oldsmobile dealer is only too willing
to demonstrate to you what owners are enjoying.
He will tell you of the Warranty that General
Motors provide for the owner; of the liberal
G.M.A.C. terms plan that enables you to enjoy
Oldsmobile ownership at a reasonable cost of
from £330.
GENERAL MOTORS (Australia) Pty. Ltd.
Brisbane - Sydney - Melbourne - Adelaide - Perth
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER
OLDSMOBILE
rL- - %
0
'/¥- — :
nr
Serving Thousands of Satisfied Owners


Ruiihiteil
V
For complete comfort and
freedom you need Denyer’s
Elastic Truss, with its patent
water-pad. Write for free
pamphlet. Trusses also made
to order.
Single, 30/-; Double, 40/-
DENYER BROS.,
DEPT. 1,
267 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
iivltve
3 , ' eateSt De 5 i rt *
tke benefits for-wkick
Gin is famous?
jf
f
BOL
f'
VERY
OLD
HOLLAND GIN
S..,
The
Rabbit
may have good cause for
dejection owing to the
label he sees. But the
Skin
Owner
has
a different viewpoint. He wants top values for his
consignments. He knows that the use of a Winch-
combe Carson label results in the realisation of that
objective. For highest market prices
CONSIGN RABBIT, FOX AND OTHER SKINS TO
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
SALESMEN,
LTD.
Winchcombe House, or 99-101 Eaffle St.,
Bridge St., Sydney,
Brisbane.
“E.S.” : Jacky shuffled into Wingy Dick’s
store with a junk of pine, which, he said, as
he dumped it on the counter, was a letter
from Long Bob, the timber-getter. On one
side of it was written in charcoal: “Please
send one pound tobacco, one tin golden syrup.
Money enclosed.” Wingy pondered over it
with a grin, then he turned to Jacky.
“Where’s the money?” he asked. “No
money,” was the answer. “Your boss says
here, ‘Money enclosed,’ ” said Wingy, tap-
ping the charcoaled lines. Jacky stated
solemnly that nothing had been said to him
about money. Surmising that the sender did
not trust liis henchman, the storekeeper care-
fully examined the piece of pine, and dis-
covered a neatly-plugged auger-hole in it.
The wood w 7 as then split with an axe, and to
Jacky’s obvious astonishment the money,
which was in shillings, dropped on the floor.
* * * *
“G.A.8.” : The w r ays of the ant are beyond
human understanding. Two sentries on the
nest of the smaller-sized sugar ant were
obviously interested in something that was
BRETHREN OF THE BRUSH.
SMALL BOY: “Please, Mister, father says can you spare a drop of red paint. He ain’t
got quite enough to finish the pigsty.”
happening down one particular hole. Up
this shaft came several more of the tribe
carrying a poor doubled-up specimen. They
conducted him well away from the nest and
threw him down by the wayside to die, if
not already dead. But no sooner had their
backs been turned than the victim came to
life, and after feeling himself all over for
broken bones, he set off for the nest. Passing
all the other inviting holes, he made straight
for the one from which he had been so
forcibly ejected, and down he went. The
sentries hurried forward and peered down
again, when presently the whole performance
w 7 as repeated. Four times the persistent
member of the tribe was thus cast forth,
and four times he returned to the same hole.
Darkness hid the rest of the proceedings, and
I turned away.
* * x x
“E.H’.S.”: Some abnormally high flood
levels have been recorded on the Burnett and
Mary rivers (Q.). Floods were so frequent
and destructive in the Burnett about 30 years
ago that the sheds on the wharf at Bunda-
berg w T ere constructed with man-o’-war bows
facing up stream, to obviate the necessity of
renewal after each flood. Warning stations
were established on the upper reaches, and
when one of them wared notice of a rapid
rise the interested parties toiled like ants
until everything movable was transported
above the highest recorded flood level. I
have a vivid recollection of the Burnett ris-
ing more than 70ft. above summer level in
48 hours. It surrounded my camp, which
w 7 as cut off from outside communication for
three days. About the same time the Mary
rose so high at G.vmpie that some of the
mines were swamped, and the air imprisoned
in one of the levels was compressed until it
broke through into the adjoining workings
with such terrific force that the timbering
of the level and shaft was wrecked. Old-
timers will tell you that flood rose more
than 80ft. above summer level.
❖ * * *
“Murrungurry”: In southern parts the
Chinaman is not known as a horseman, but
in Queensland, especially far north, he
engages in all sorts of stoekwork. Norman-
ton district had four brothers named Foy
who were crack cattlemen and buckjump
riders. Three of them were amateur jockeys,
and not infrequently all rode in the one
race: the other was a professional. One big
run on the Barcoo years ago had all Chinese
boundary-riders. The cook and the gardener
were of the same nationality.
* * =i= x
“The Hippogryph”: There came to our
Riverina district an ancient odd-jobs man
with an old horse conspicuous by the pessi-
mistic droop of his lower lip and a hairless,
calloused patch between his aitch bones.
These horsey peculiarities puzzled onlookers
until one day the ancient was discovered
along the Sydney road daubing advertisement;,
on dead trees. To circumvent the facetious
energy of district Daves and Dans the ads.
were painted high. The quiet old prad was
the moving scaffold from which the painting
w 7 as done. His rump had been worn bare by
the shuffling there of his owner’s hobnails.
He was an old and good stock-horse, so no
doubt the droop of his lip was his silent
protest against the fall that had been his.
WASTE.
MRS. LUPIN: “Look here, that boy of yours just missed hitting my cat with a ing
lump of coal.”
MRS. BRIDGE: “Missed, did he, the young divvle! I’ve told him before that I won’t
have my coal wasted.”
“Toggle” : Camped on a waterhc
a dry spell, I’ve watched the tacti
crows. Some old ewe, having dozet
the heat of the day, would haul herself
laboriously to her feet. Before her forelegs
were straight under her, a crow 7 would alight
on her rump and, locking his claws in her
wool, would apparently try to fly off wdth
her. Between her weakness and flurry and
the impetus of his threshing wings, it was
odds on that the wretched animal would
stagger forward and fall; and in a second
the black beak would be buried in her eye.
I never saw 7 a crow 7 trouble a strong sheep
unless it was bogged. The fact is that the
modern sheep is as fragile as a trayful of
silkworms, and just about as fitted to face
the wilds. It is sheer man-power that keeps
them alive.
“Brasher” : I knew an old chap
in the bush who had no teeth and
wouldn’t wear false ones. H'e had
a small mincing-machine made,
and carried it round with him to
break up the tough stuff. Between
meals he used the mincer to grind up
dark plug tobacco. H'e said it was
easier than cutting it off the plug,
and smoked better. I asked him
if he ever washed the machine
afterwards. “ Wash it?” he snorted.
“What would I want to wash it
for? That bit o’ dust saves me
carryin’ Worcester sauce.” The wonder to
me was that it hadn’t saved him carrying his
swag.
# H* ❖ :Jc
“Seven Hills”: Vegetable wrestling
matches —strangleholds—are a common sight
in the timbered areas of coastal N.S.W.
The native fig sends out tendrils of
about pencil thickness, and the mightiest
tree in the forest is doomed from the instant
one of those weaving tentacles makes con-
tact. No matter how great its diameter
the interlacing vines of the fig eventually
enfold it in a strangling network, sucking
and crushing the life out of it —a veritable
lattice-work of death. Sometimes the para-
site germinates in its host, which, of course,
hastens the end.
“Keystring”: As one who graduated in
oxology let me tell “Wang” (B. 22/l/’3O)
that liis bullocky wdio yelled “Gee off!” to
Baldy when he wanted the old fellow to come
towards him was a dud. The leader did
the correct thing in moving to the right.
Had the driver said “Way-comeah!” to the
leaders and then “Wah-h, Bowler!” and
“Wah-h, Billy!” to the off-side poler and pin-
vocabulary on his bogged team lie would
move close to the bullocks and issue his
famous challenge: “I’ll bub-bub-bet any of
yous bub-blanky-bub-blankards yez can’t pull
it.” * And I never saw Joseph lose.
* * * *
“Battler” : “Native” is wide of the mark
when he says that Chappie, the discoverer
of Canoona (Q.), was killed and eaten by
blacks on the Calliope River (B. 22/l/’3O).
Chappie died of fever; I was in the Calliope
district at the time. Nor was Boles one of
the party to which “Native” refers. The
members were Captain Phil Hardy, Friend,
Ellis, Dan Martin, Hitchcock, Till, Dr.
Robertson and Jim Arthur, the bullock-
driver. It was the news sent to Sydney
by Hardy that was largely responsible
for the rush. The miners promised him a
rough time on his return to Gladstone, but he
bluffed them with a revolver.
* * * X
“Alfred O’Toole” : I went meat-hungry on
the Paroo (.Q.) for three days, and then
consented to taste the tail of a small goanna
my Man Friday had wrapped in clay and
baked in the ashes. It was pink, like chicken
flesh, and I thought it sweeter. I was sorry
I had let Binghi eat the rest unassisted.
Porcupine, though rich and oily, was my
favorite bush game in those days. It re-
minded me of the taste of the salted and
casked mutton-birds we used to buy from
the stores about Mount Lyell (Tas.),
* * * *
“Hayband”: The simultaneous jerk to
attention of thousands of feeding birds is an
astonishing example of physical radio (B.
5/2/’3O). For one tense second the alarm
is analysed. Reassured, down goes every
head —not even a fleeting splinter of a
second difference. Another amazing example
of synchronised action by birds is exhibited
when certain types wheel in flight. Tele-
photo pictures taken in Melbourne some
years ago showed that tl}e whole flock in-
variably banked as one bird. Even the most
precise examination of enlarged pictures
could not show 7 a lag.
* * $ *
“Jobber” : A snake killed recently at Minnie-
ha-ha Falls, within a few miles of Katoomba,
sported three separate and distinct tails. The
reptile was about a foot long; two of the
tails are shaped like hooks and turned out-
ward, while the third is smaller, and hangs
straight between the bigger ones. The freak
is on show in a shop window.
THE ARGUMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It am t like that,” says Dan to Joe,
sa gely shakes his head;
lhat sorter argument don’t go.
I w ouldn t go so far, I know,
As challenge wot you said,
Or seem to conterdict you flat,
But pears to me it ain’t like that.”
iere y° u go!” says Joe to Dan,
Ihe same old silly crack.
Your head seems like an empty can,
I teßs yer plain, as man to man,
That sense is wot you lack.
Is all yer reasonin’ gone to pot?
It ain’t like that! Wot ain’t like wot?”
I mean,” says Dan again,
I 11 try an’ put yer right;
Jus listen fair while I explain.
Your windy argument ain’t sane,
Or sound or water-tight.
Experience and tliinkin’ long
Jus’ tells me plain you reason wrong.
“The way the thing occurs to me
It’s. wdiolly different;
An’ different things, as you’ll agree,
They ain’t the same—can’t ever be,
Wotever thing you meant.
Some ways you might be right, but—no!
In this here case the thing ain’t so.”
And when he thinks he’s made it clear
Joe winds up the debate :
“All you’ve been argufyin’ here
To men with stummicks full o’ beer
Might seem to carry weight;
Where you went wrong I can’t jus’ say,
But —Hell! I know it ain’t that way!”
S.A.
BILL O’C.


OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Married couple, early thirties, husband three years’
exp. sheep, wife used to farm duties, would like
position station.—479s.
Youth, Vic., leaving certif. with physics and
chemistry, wants opening laboratory or technical
works, any State.—-4798.
Young man (20), N.S.W., wants job chauffeur, city
or country.—4779.
Young man (24), N.S.W., wants position as
jackeroo-bookkeeper, sheep-station; can drive car
4778.
By hardworking, energetic man (26), position
sheep-station, any State, nine years’ exp.—4763.
Lad (15), likes work, wants job sheep- or cattle-
station, anywhere.—476s.
Qualified pharmaceutical chemist desires position
in Islands or place outside Australia; managing
pharmacy at present.—4767.
Young man, Q’land, wants position as tutor in
private family; pay own fare. —4749.
Man (40), Q’land, abstainer, wants billet, cook,
houseman, gardener, lifetime on stations.—47ss.
Young man, Sydney, wants exp. on pig-farm, has
car-driver’s license.—4724.
Proof-reader (28), Sydney, 10 years’ exp. weekly
and daily papers, job-printing, wants work anywhere.
—4814,
By married couple, no children, furnished house
or flat winter months, in warm, dry climate,
any State.—4733.
Ex-teacher, Q’land, desires position as governess on
Station. Subjects include music and needlework. —
4816.
Englishman, six years’ exp. station work, handy,
with tools, can drive car, wants j0b.—4780.
Carpenter and joiner, Sydney, wants work any-
where ; alterations, additions to houses, garages
4780.
Graduate Sydney Uni. will coach for Intermediate,
Leaving Certificate or Matric., also any law subject.
—4819.
To buy one or more gas cooking-rings.—4Bl6.
To buy Norman Lindsay “Etchings” (1927) ;
“Pair of Blue Eyes” (1871); “Westward Hoi”
(1855) ; “Workers in the Dawn” (1880). —4803.
T 0 buy “An Anzac Muster” (1922) ; “Kanga
Creek” ; “Maurice Guest” (1908) ; “Getting of Wis-
dom” (1910) ; “Fortunes of Richard Mahony”
(1912) ; also “Old Times,” vol. 4. —4802.
To buy “Bushman and Buccaneer,” by Frank
Renar.—4Bll.
To buy works on natives by Spencer and Gillen,
or R0th.—4786.
To buy “Messiah,” words and music.—-4821.
To buy works by Charles Lever.—4792.
To buy “The Twilight of the White Races,” by
Muret.—4794.
Retired gentleman, N.Z., desires to correspond with
readers same sex, any age.—4797.
Information Sought.
If a N.S.W. man is declared insane, his
estate, I presume, is administered by the
Master in Lunacy. (1) Suppose he had a
good income from property, could his wife be
deprived of it on the ground that it is being
held by the Master in Lunacy against asylum
charges? . (2) Would a neurasthenic be
classed as insane? (3) Would it be wise for
a man to transfer his property to his wife
if he had doubts as to his sanity? —4Bol.
(1) The Master in Lunacy is entitled to
appropriate a sufficient sum out of the
patient’s estate for his maintenance; the
balance may go to his dependants as the
Master sees fit. (2) Where neurasthenia
ends and lunacy begins is a question of medi-
cal diagnosis. (3) Such a transfer would
have to be made when the transferror was
in full possession of his faculties and would
have to conform to the law’s requirements
in other respects.
(1) How long Would it take to acquire
proficiency in shorthand? (2) What open-
ings are there for male shorthand writers?
—4660.
(1) Depends on the ability of the learner
and amount of time devoted to study and
practice. A good working speed can be
acquired in six months by a person giving
a few hours each day to study under the
direction of a competent teacher. It would,
of course, take longer to learn in a corres-
pondence course. (2) Openings occur from
time to time on Parliamentary and court
reporting staffs and in the commercial world.
They are not numerous at the present time.
How are variable condensers best tested
for a short-circuit between the fixed and
variable plates?— 47lo.
Remove all leads from the condenser ter-
minals ; connect one side of a four-volt bias
battery to one of the condenser terminals
and to the other side join one lead of a pair
of telephones.. With the other ’phone lead
touch the remaining condenser terminal a
number of times, slowly rotating the con-
denser dial. A series of loud clicks heard in
the headphones denotes a short-circuit in the
condenser; if weak clicks only are heard the
instrument is in good order. When carrying
out this test, it is important to remove all
leads from the condenser.
Should a suggested design for advertising
purposes be submitted to the manufacturer
(or his agents) or the firm handling his
advertising mutter? And should the finished
design or a rough suggestion be sent? —436s.
Submit a rough suggestion to the firm
handling the manufacturer’s advertising.
Then the sales message and other advertising
points could be discussed and incorporated
in a further rough design for the manufac-
turer. It is a bad practice to complete
designs on “spec” to submit to manufactur-
ers or advertising firms without first finding
where there is a market for them in either
showcard or poster form.
(1) World’s record time for a mile, trot-
ting or pacing horses, or both. (2) Dan
Patch’s best time (a) without windshield,
(b) with windshield,?- —4569.
(1) Trotting: Gelding (Peter Manning),
lmin. 56|sec.; stallion (Lee Axwortliy),
lmin. 58Jsec.; mare (Tilly Brooke), lmin.
59sec. Pacing: Gelding (Prince Alert),
lmin. 57sec.; mare (Miss Harris), lmin.
58:1.5ec.; stallion (Dan Patch), lmin. 55sec.
(2) Dan Patch’s best mile in harness was
lmin. 55sec. No record of whether wind-
shield was used or not.
(1) What is copra? (2) How long does it
take to bear? (3) Uses? —47l9.
(1) Copra is in reality the cured (or
dried) kernel of the coco'anut. (2) The
normal life of the cocoanut-tree is about 60
years; it takes nine to ten years for the
tree to come into full bearing. (3) Copra
is used commercially for the manufacture of
margarine, soap and glycerine; the residue is
utilised to make oil-cake for cattle.
Which is the most deadly of Australian
venomous snakes? —4812.
The death-adder, it is generally considered,
but Dr. Kelleway, Director of the Walter
and Eliza Hall Institute, who is carrying
out experiments with venom, awards the evil
pre-eminence to the tiger-snake. Other
authorities incline to the opinion that
neither is as dangerous as the giant brown
snake of North Australia. This species
grows to 10 feet in length, has fangs about
half an inch in length, and produces an
enormous quantity of venom.
I am anxious to get a Government position
for a young girl who is not strong. What
chance would she have of becoming a sports
mistress? What exams, are necessary, and
how long would she have to train?. —4563.
Before any advice can be given particu-
lars regarding age, educational standard and
occupational interests must be supplied.
Government positions for girls are only ob-
tained by special exams, held from time to
time. Sports mistresses in public schools
are trained teachers who have specialised
in physical culture during their training.
Such appointments in private schools are
generally obtained per medium of some
physical-culture school.
A war widow wants to rent an Ansae
cottage in Brisbane. To whom should she
apply? —4Bl3.
To the secretary, Queensland War Council,
Brisbane. The rent of these cottages is
Is. 6d. a week, occupiers being also liable
for rates. Owing to the fund being exhausted
no more are now being erected, but in the
event of one becoming vacant it is allotted
to another applicant.
(1) Price obtainable for felspar, Sydney
and Melbourne? (2) Firms interested?
(3) Uses? (4) Hoiv to test? —46sl.
(1) Best quality, about £5 per ton c.i.f.
(2) Send sample to and communicate with
Frank Hambridge, 22 Bridge-street, Sydney.
(3) It is used principally by potteries and
porcelain makers. (4) It is judged by its
nature after burning.
I have a Strad. made in 1742. Any idea
of its value? —47so.
Stradivarius was born in 1644 and died
in 1737. His violins are of great value;
well-preserved specimens of his best period
command up to £lO,OOO. Your instrument
is in all probability one of the trade copies
with which the market is flooded.
Which is the longest stretch of straight
railway line in the w0r1d?— 4599.
The perfect straight across the Nullarbor
Plain on our Trans-Australian railway ; it is
300 miles long. Prior to its construction
the record "was held by a stretch of 205
miles on the Argentine Trans-Andean rail-
way from west of Junin to the vicinity of
Villa Mercedes.
(1) Is frangipanni (Plumeria acutifolia)
a native Australian shrub? (2) Gan it be
grown in Sydney? (3) Gan it be grown
from seeds. Best method of planting? —4777.
(1) No, it is a native of Mexico. (2)
Yes, and it flowers profusely. (3) It is
usually grown from cuttings in October,
when it roots'readily. It can be propagated
from seed, but seed is difficult to obtain.
Cuttings six inches long should be taken
from leafless plants when the wood is ripe.
(1) Names and occupations of members
composing the Royal Commission on the
Commonwealth Constitution? (2) How long
did the Commission sit? —4764.
(1) J. B. Peden (Prof, of Law, Sydney
Uni. and President N.S.W. Leg. Council),
Percy Phipps Abbott (solicitor and ex-
N.S.W. Senator), T. R. Ashworth (former
Vic. M.L.A., interested in companies), E. K.
Bowden (ex-Federal Minister and solicitor),
Hal Colebatch (journalist, former Westra-
lian Premier, now Senator), M. B. Duffy
(secretary Melb. Trades Hall Council), D.
L. McNamara (Vic. Leg. Councillor and
union sec.). (2) It was appointed August
18, and presented its report November
21, 1929 ; it held 198 sittings and examined
339 witnesses.
(1) Extent of mining operations at the
Monarch. Broken Ilill? (2) How many men
are employed and will the number be in-
creased?—4s6l.
(1) Chiefly prospecting work. (2) At
present suspension of labor conditions is in
force.
(1) My peaches have been attacked by
a weevil, which enters near the stem. The
peach rots and becomes covered with a brown
powder. What is up, and what can be done?
(2) My golden cypress developed a bend. I
cut the top off at the bend; the tree has not
developed since; will it remain stunted or
throw out a new shoot? —4331.
(1) The trouble is evidently due to brown
rot, the fruit beetles ( Carpophilus ) being
only a secondary factor. Cut out all diseased
shoots; remove all “mummies” from tree
and ground, and burn them with the prun-
ings, and keep centre of tree open. Spray
with lime-sulphur (winter strength) before
the buds swell. Summer control is practically
impossible with present knowledge, but thin-
ning out of fruits wherever they are too close
together may prevent the disease spreading
rapidly during the summer. (2) Once the
lead is cut in such a tree it never after-
wards develops the same symmetrical form
as when it is allowed to grow naturally.
This, however, should not stunt the tree
permanently; it should send out three or four
shoots from near where the cut was made if
fairly young. Golden cypresses do not grow
to a great age in the N.S.W. coastal districts.
(1) What is the new navigation rule super-
seding the old “port” and “starboard” rule?
(2) Reason for the change? —4739.
(1) The proposed new navigation rule is
included in the recommendations of the Inter-
national Convention for the Safety of Life at
Sea held in London in May, 1929. It reads :
“Art. 41.—Helm orders. The contracting
Governments agree that after midnight on
June 30, 1931, helm or steering orders— i.e.,
orders to the steersman —-shall on all their
ships be given in the direct sense. E.g.,
when the ship is going ahead an order con-
taining the word ‘starboard’ or ‘right’ or
any equivalent of ‘starboard’ or ‘right’
shall only be used when it is intended, on
ships as at present generally constructed
and arranged, that the wheel, the rudder-
blade and the head of the ship shall all move
to the right.” (2) Unable to give the con-
vention’s reasons. Its report can be seen
at the Dept, of Navigation, Sydney.
(1) Gould a young man (married), now on
the land in N.S.W., study law and qualify
without leaving his farm? (2) Where to
apply for hooks, fees, etc.? (3) Does a man
buy into a country practice or staft one on
his own account?— 4742.
(1) No; he would have to be articled to
a solicitor for five years; or in the case of
a graduate of a University, three years. (2)
Try Law Book Co., 140 Phillip-street, Syd-
ney. Details as to exams., fees, etc., will be
found under the rules relating to solicitors
published in the N.S.W. Law Almanac, Gov-
ernment Printer, Sydney (3s. 6d.). (3)
Having served his articles, passed his exami-
nations and been admitted by the Court he
may start practice either by himself or by
buying a partnership. Or he may seek a
position as a qualified clerk.
Row to make a spike roller and how to
fasten tines? —42BB.
No easy job for a handy man. A spike
roller made of concrete would be too heavy
and it is scarcely practicable to make one of
steel. As regards wood, a log about Bft. long
and 18in. in diameter with an iron hoop at
each end would be about the correct size
and weight. For the tines coach screws
could be adapted by cutting off the heads and
tapering to a thick chisel point. A bar of
iron slotted to fit this chisel point could be
used for screwing them into the log. These
tines would be spaced 6in. apart in rows
4in. apart, the first row to begin 2in. from
the end and the second sin. alternately round
the cylinder. The axle might take the form
of a l|in. diameter water pipe through the
log with a pipe flange screwed on each end
hard to the log. The labor of making and
screwing in the tines will be considerable.
Would an Australian, aged 24, have any
chance of joining the New Zealand Navy?
—4534.
He would be ineligible unless he had some
trade qualification. Candidates for entry as
seamen are accepted only between the ages
of 15 and 16i, and as stokers between the
ages of 18 and 22. Moreover, the number
of recruits available locally is sufficient to
meet requirements.
(1) What would the Sydney University
Extension Board regard as a “responsible
committee” as regards an application for
extension lectures in a country town? (2)
Conditions required by the Uni. in these
cases? (3) Lecture subjects? (4 ) Any
guarantee ? —4731.
(1) Usually applications for extension
lectures are received from already consti-
tuted bodies, such as schools of arts,
mechanics’ institutes, parents and citizens’
associations, etc., or from local committees
formed to arrange extension lectures. (2)
The local centre pays a fee of £2 per lec-
ture and provides for the accommodation
of the lecturer during his stay. It fixes
the charges of admission, retains all door
receipts and makes its own arrangements
regarding hall, advertising, etc. The Exten-
sion Boards pays the lecturer’s fares to and
from the centre and provides printed sylla-
buses; It does not arrange single lectures
but encourages courses of not less, than three.
In the case of distant centres it is usual for
two or more neighboring towns to combine
and select the same lecturer (usually in
university vacations). (3) A list of sub-
jects and lecturers, available each year, is
printed by the Extension Board, and can
be got from the .sec. Should a subject not
on this list be asked for, the board will
endeavor to provide lectures on it. (4) Only
£2 per lecture, but before arranging a course
the board must receive assurance that there
is reasonable local demand for it.
Formula for liquid hoof-dressing for race-
horses in which neatsfoot oil and Stockholm
tar are used? —4737.
Stockholm tar, lib.; oil of tar, 40z.; oil
of turpentine, 20z.; neatsfoot oil, 1 gallon.
Linseed oil is sometimes used instead of
neatsfoot. The Stockholm tar and neatsfoot
oil should be well mixed, and the oil of tar
and turpentine gradually added.
(1) Best solvent of rubber to make solu-
tion? (2) Method of sticking crepe rubber
soles to leather?— 4634.
(1) First, the rubber must be crude or
unvulcanised —it is not possible to make
solution from vulcanised rubber. The usual
method is to cut the unvulcanised rubber into
small pieces, covering with benzine and stir-
ring periodically. After the rubber has dis-
solved benzine can be added until the right
thickness is obtained. (2) The leather surface
must be clean and the surface roughened
slightly with a rasp. Two or three coats
of solution are applied to the leather, time
being allowed for the solution to dry between
each coat. One coat of solution is applied
to the crepe rubber, and when both are
tacky the crepe sole is applied to the shoe,
care being taken to beat out with a hammer
all air bubbles.
Brief Answers.
C.A.R.: Presuming that it is a case of
safety first, we’d choose Nos. 1, 2 and 4. .. .W.Y.: A
solvent for celluloid may be made by mixing amyl
acetate, 10 parts, and acetone, 16 parts, and adding
sulphuric ether, 16 parts. This will dissolve about
10 parts by weight of celluloid.., .8.C.: For entrance
to the exam, (it is to be held on April 15) for the
short course of training at Sydney Teachers’ Col-
lege a candidate must pass in English, arithmetic,
history or geography and algebra, geometry or draw-
ing .... S.A.: Demand for silicate of potash is very
small; a leading Sydney chemical warehouse has not
imported or sold a single ounce for years. .. .J.W.S.:
Write H. K. Anderson, Inland Fisheries Officer, State
Fisheries Dept., Bridge-street, Sydney...-A. J. 8.:
Artesian water was first discovered in 1879 at Ivil-
lara station, north-west N.S.W P.D. : You lose.
Kuring-gai Chase has an area of 35,300 acres;
National Park one of 33,800 acres.. . .E.G.: A widow
is not qualified for a pension under the N.S.W.
Widows’ Pensions Act unless she was domiciled in
N.S.W. at the date of her husband’s death, is residing
in the State at the date of her application, has been
so residing continuously for three years, and has
wholly or mainly dependent on her a child, step-
child or child legally adopted before her widowhood
who is under the age of 14. A pension may not be
paid to any widow if she is receiving any other
pension or allowance exceeding the amount of pen-
sion which, if otherwise qualified, she would receive.
. ...F.S.: Glue and casein are the regular binders
employed in cold-water paints such as kalsomine;
don’t know of any other binder which will satis-
factorily take their place at the price... .W.R.:
N.S.W. Crimes Act makes special provision for
heavier penalties where the culprits are teachers or
fathers... .E.F.G.: Doubt whether there would be
much demand for such a work, but Sydney music
firms would be able to advise. . . . R.A. : (1) Smythe and
Co., 121 a Castlereagh-street; Fred Hagen, 63 Hunter-
street ; and F. Everitt, 333 George-street-—all Syd-
ney. (2) N0....H.K.: Apply direct to shipping cos.
in Melbourne; chances are very poor, however....
D.F.: Manufacturers generally prepare their own
passion-fruit pulp, but you might submit a sample
to one or more of the following: H. Jones and Co.,
Darlington; Rosella Co., Morley-avenue, Rosebery,
and Oakleaf Co., Bridge-road, Stanmore... .C.H.A.:
It is an inflammation of the skin, caused by a
fungus. An article appears in last month’s Vic.
Journal of Agriculture. .. .N.A.E.: Unable to recom-
mend any locality. Most of the alluvial gold won
in Queensland during recent years comes from the
Peninsula (Batavia River, etc.),- I t these parts are
most inaccessible at this season of the year. .. . Oozit
(1): Quite good of their class, though some were
badly bought. Doubt the wisdom of selling any at
present. (2) Banks are lending hardly anything on
new accounts; not better than 7 p.c. on a wide
margin from a bank, not less than 8 p.c. outside....
D.F.: Write to the secretary and see if he can’t sell
them for y0u....A.C.L.: A bull is a Stock Ex-
change operator whose purpose is to send up the
price of a stock; a bear is one who is working to
bring it down X.Y.Z.: Mortgagee may sue for
the deficit between mortgage and amount realised by
sale... .W.H.W.: Sydney gramophone dealers don’t
know the co. Edison had a model called the Stan-
dard on the market years ago. Write to them at
364 Kent-street, Sydney E. J. 8.: Try Yates and
Co., 184 Sussex-street, Sydney. .. .G.G.: There is
no Federal award covering the lad’s case, and the
State rural award has gone out of existence....
P.F.C.: Provided his handwriting was legible left-
handedness wouldn’t prejudice employers against him.
D.O.: Leading Sydney retailers say that brand
is not on our market...-M.C.: Instructions how to
make a rope pig-net were printed in “Queensland
Agricultural Journal” for May, 1927; the depart-
ment would probably supply you with the extract.
. ...H.E.: One account is that “Narrabeen” should
be “Narrabin,” the native name of some purple
berries which grew near the lake.. . .A.M.: Tropical
Australia is 38.6 per cent, of the total area
M. 8.: There is a brief history of the basic wage in
Australia in chapter 13, C’wealth “Year Book,” 1929.
~. .A.P.D.: Jack London’s “The Iron Heel” was
published in 1908 R.L.H.: Book is worth no
more than 5s J.R.: Worth 3s. 6d. at the most.
L.E.: Plenty in the market. An incomplete set
would be hard to sell R.H.: Can’t advise you to
come F.N.: A diploma in Public Administration
is granted by Sydney Uni. ; course takes three years
and fees amount to £4B. Further particulars from
Registrar, Camperdown... .T.E.L.: (1) Market for
talking pictures is unsettled; U.S. producers are
mainly adapting stage successes or published stories.
Doubtful whether a scenario from an unknown writer
would be read. (2) First National Studios, Burbank;
M. Culver City; Paramount-Famous Lasky,
5451 Marathon-street, Hollywood; Fox, 1401 North-
Western Avenue, Los Angeles, all Cal., U.S.A. (3)
Amalgamated Press, Fleetway House, Farringdon-
street, E.C.4; C. Arthur Pearson, 18 Henrietta-
street, W.C. 2; George Newnes, Southampton-street,
Strand, W.C.2—all London H.L.H.: A makes 50
per cent, profit 8.T.; Write Dr. A. H. Martin,
Sydney Uni W.R.: Appointments of N.S.W. de-
tectives are made only from the police force J.W.:
Federal deposit is £25; it is forfeited if a House
of Reps, candidate fails to secure one-fifth of the
winner’s first preferences and if a candidate for the
Senate fails to secure one-tenth of the elected men’s
first preferences averaged... .S.E.: On an estate
valued at £7OOO State duties (Vic.) would be £315,
and Federal, £443 6s. Bd.; total, £758 6s. 8d
N. : Soviet Russia has no consular representative
in Australia E. 8.: It is valid, but if a widow
were left she could put in a claim for maintenance.
. ...L.U.D.: Sample should be submitted to an
analyst; or consult “Examination of Waters and Water
Supplies,” by Thresh and Beale (Churchill) P.0.G.:
Apply Chief Inspector Scaffolding and Lifts, Dept, of
Labor, George-street North and Argyle-street, Syd-
ney... .Roscoe: A person seeking divorce in N. S.
Wales must, when commencing proceedings, have been
domiciled in the State for three years or upwards.
It is not safe to re-marry without proof of wife’s
death. Cannot discriminate between legal prac-
titioners K.M.1.: Dept, of Agriculture, Sydney,
will post, on request, particulars regarding cultiva-
tion of herbs; too lengthy to print here. As to
market, wholesale grocers would need to be convinced
of quality. . . .G.R.M.L.: (I) Yes, provided wages are
paid in accordance with State Arbitration award or
agreement. (2) N.S.W. State or Federal income-tax
is not payable on winnings in those sweeps....
J.S.P.: Specific gravity of cork is 0.24 ; of fibre of
washed wool, 1.30. Heat conductivities of cork-board
and of the fibre of wool are the same—about .9
1/10,000 cgs. units. Charcoal, diatomaceous earth,
slag wool, expanded rubber, pumice and other fibrous
materials are used for refrigerator packing as well
as cork... .M.M.G.: Vendor of ham originally buys
a full 101 b. and sells at the first weight. If you then
buy without demanding a reweigliing you accept the
printed weight as being correct and responsibility is
with you. That’s if the ham is sold in its original
packing; if it were removed you would pay only for
actual weight (Many others mailed).


•/
u
1*52
On the road, climbing
the hills or on the level
stretches, All-Weather
Tread Tyres give you
perfect service. They
assure you gripping
traction,freedom from
blowouts —carefree
travel.
You pay no more for
Goodyear Tyres & Tubes
made in Australia than for
any other make.


Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W
Cct 'iyLgkeAt ptvducMm
poteMe Jwn, join*-
CHIC-A-YITE
Ask the Man
Who’s Been There
and he will tell you that “the best
holiday he ever had” was at
Mt. Buffalo
National Park
Book now for the snow-sports
season.
Particulars at
Government Tourist Bureaux,
Queen’s Walk, Melbourne, or
Martin Place, Sydney.
THE MAM
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
C[?]PARK & CASNEREAGH STS SYDNEY
Farm Accounts.
1-—A Preliminary Talk.
ne mcn °nt of ten who haven’t been trained to figures get alarmed when you
vtn mention accounts. As for balance-sheets and finance they “simply don’t pretend
o understand such things.” The object of this series of articles is, first, to make
Bungs plain so that no farmer need be afraid of simple accounts any more;
a a, afterwards, perhaps to give a few hints to those who already know a good deal about
the science of book-keeping.
An old farmer whom the writer knew always said that putting a few figures down
m a book didn t make a man worth any more. He had never drawn up a balance-sheet,
and could only make a guess at what he had earned, and at what he owed and
at what he was worth. Presently he wanted temporary credit quickly and badly, and
was surprised at Ins difficulty in getting it. Something like a crisis came when the
income-tax people called on him, and he found himself compelled to get in an accountant
and go laboriously back over several years’ transactions.
In its simplest form a balance-sheet is a list of what you owe (liabilities) on one
side and what you own (assets) on the other. The difference between the totals of the
assets _and ot the liabilities will show you how you stand. If you own more than you
owe, the difference between the two totals is your capital. If you owe more than you
own you are insolvent.
You will make up your balance-sheet at a given date. Twelve months later you will
make it up again in the same way. By comparing the two you will see whether you
have made a profit or a loss.
If the accounts are to be. of any real use to you you must be honest with yourself.
Among the things you own is a harvesting plant. You have worked it hard, and it is
not w'orth what it was a year ago. You must revalue it, and put it in among the
things you own your assets—at the reduced figure. The difference between what you
think it is worth now and what it was worth 12 months ago is called depreciation.
Meantime, however, you have spent, say, £5O on it.on new parts and replacements. So
actually it has depreciated by the difference between the present value and the value of
a year ago, plus £5O. When you are reckoning up what it has cost you to run your
farm during the year, you must count in that depreciation. Neglect of that item has
made many a man think he has been doing better than he actually has done', and has
lured him on to bankruptcy. However, this is mentioned at present only to emphasise
the necessity for being honest with yourself.
Y °u Will want something more than a balance-sheet, however. You will want to
know what you have got for your products and how you have spent the money. They
call this a profit and loss account. On the left-hand side you put down all it has cost
you to run your business—wages, seed, fertiliser, etc. You put in also the depreciation
that w& talked about just now. You don’t put in here what is called capital expenditure;
that is, things like the cost of new machinery or additional land. You put in here only
the depreciation of the plant, etc., for that is part of what it. cost you to get the
products shown on the other side. Among these costs you also put in interest and
bank or other charges of that sort. On the other side you put in the value of the
products. You total up each side, and from that you will see liow you have been doing—
whether you have made a profit or a loss and how much. There are many things to
consider in making up this profit and loss account; they will be dealt with later on.
But this gives a general idea of the business.
Now' from your profit and loss account you have found out whether you have made
a profit or a loss during the year. Also if you keep accounts in the same way next
year you will be able to compare the two —see what has been costing more or less (and
if rndre you will want to know why), and whether you have got more or less for this
product or that (and again you will want to know' why).
Now you can check up your profit and loss account and your balance-sheet. If your
p. and 1. account (as they generally call it) shows that you have produced £2OO more
than it cost you, then you must be £2OO better off, and your balance-sheet must show
that you have £2OO more assets in excess of liabilities than you had a year ago. If
you arc sure you have drawn up your balance-sheet properly—that is, put in all
your assets on one side and all your liabilities on the other—and if this doesn’t show
that you are £2OO better off than you were a year ago, then your p. and 1. account is
wrong somewhere, and you must find out what you have omitted or otherwise done
wrong. The two must agree. That is what they mean by striking a balance.
Having thus briefly looked at the main objects of book-keeping, next week we shall
commence to explain the elementary principles. As we go along we will describe the
account-books required (they need not cost more than a few shillings), their uses, and
practical examples will be given. We will show how the revenue and expenditure of a
farm is recorded week by week, in books of first-entry, and how these records- are
eventually grouped into proper order and transferred to ledger accounts. And, finally,
we will show how the balances of these ledger accounts are marshalled together at the
end of the financial year and a profit and loss account and balance-sheet drawn up
therefrom. A model set of books compiled from a list of transactions which will cover
-every item that is likely to crop up in a farming business will be run through the
series.
BEATING THE FOX.
“Tumbe Munda” : It is time to argue the
point with the fox—a continent-wide nuisance
now, though it is only a few years since he
reached Westralia. I like to get most of my
poisoning done before the lambing commences,
During February, March and April Reynard
is very hungry, and will follow a trail
eagerly. There are likewise many young
foxes that will readily take a bait during
the same months. About May the beast is
more particular about food, being able to
pick and choose, and in July it is very hard
to poison him. '
The grazier who wishes to save liis lambs
should get to work now. Out a sheep’s
liver into slices, roughly 2in. by lin., make
a slit in the liver and insert about as much
strychnine as will cover a threepenny piece,
Then tie a cord round the entrails of a sheep,
and you have a useful trail. If the mutton
is not fresh, put it in the fire till a smell
of grilling arises. Drag your trail, and place
baits about 100 yards apart, burying them
about an inch under the ground surface,
Lift the trail about two feet before reaching
the place where the bait is buried, and do
not replace it on the ground till about the
same distance past. This causes the fox
to search and dig for the bait; if the trail
is dragged right along the animal might be
led past it. If afraid of the baits being car-
ried away use tallow rolled into balls about
as big as a golf ball, and insert your strych-
nine in this. The fox cannot carry these balls,
so he eats them on the spot. Don’t be afraid
to handle the baits. I have been poisoning
for many years and have tried the system of
not touching the bait, and have found it more
troublesome without being any more effective.
I have used parrots for bait with success.
Pluck the breast and insert the poison into
the flesh each side of the breast-bone. Drag
your trail along a fence, and by means of a
piece of twine hang the parrots to the fence,
letting them swing about a foot from the
ground. If the knots are tight the fox
will eat the bird there, and that gives the
poison time to act before he gets far from
the trail. When buying strychnine see that
it is crystallised. A powdered poison is easy
to adulterate ; anyhow, it is seldom a suc-
cess.
If baits are not effective and the lambs are
going, try the gun. Go out in the early
morning on foot, beating up against the wind.
You will find the red marauder smelling
about on the ground. If you are very still
and watchful, he will presently look up and
sniff. When he drops his nose to the ground
walk steadily towards him. The moment he
starts to lift his head again stand quite
still. Don’t get excited if he looks straight
at you; he is a short-sighted creature and
if you don’t move will not notice you. Keep
advancing each time he drops his head until
you are close enough to shoot. The fox is
by no means a brainy animal in spite of his
reputation. He has not as much cunning as
a sheep-dog.
HAY AND HUMUS.
“S. Quire” : The correct time to cut hay is
when it is in the “milk” stage ; then, if the
elements are kind, a rich hay is obtained,
with the “purple pink” bloom so much
sought after by buyers. It is possible to
sacrifice quantity for quality and at the same
time renovate the soil of the hay paddock.
In an oaten-hay crop three feet high from
the cut, the bottom foot of the sheaves (the
butts) will contain approximately half the
protein contained in the top foot; the per-
centage of protein in the middle foot will
rest in between.
In wheaten hay, on the other hand, the
bottom foot of a sheaf three feet long will
contain about a third of the protein con-
tained in the top foot, the wheaten-hay crop
.being allowed to mature further than the
oaten crop. A “shandy” crop will naturally
give figures about halfway between.
By raising the cut of the reaper and binder,
say,’ to six inches, a better-quality hay is
thus reaped—more nutritious and more
digestible. The stubble can be grazed and
then ploughed under. It will not be long
enough to cause trouble during subsequent
tillage operations and the humus returned
to the soil will be doubled. In a few years
the soil will improve beyond recognition.
My contention is that hay is cut too long
from the standpoints of ■ both buyer and
seller. I should like to hear the views of
other folk. At what height from the ground
should the knives be set?
TIP-JACK RAKE RESURRECTED.
“Lien”: An interesting' development in
Australian agriculture is the resurrection of
the old-fashioned hayrake known as the tip-
jack. This is a result of the spread of sub-
terranean clover. Harvesting sub. clover is a
tedious and complicated business which has
still got many farmers thinking. Subjoined
are particulars of an economical and efficient
tool by means of which they may gather
95 per cent, of the crop.
This tool can be constructed by any handy-
farmer. First get two 4in. x 2in. pieces of
hardwood 4ft. long, and bolt together to
make a 4in. x 4in. Then mortise l|in. holes
square ljin. apart, and through these poke
Ivin, hardwood rods to protrude 2ft. 6in.
each side. If there is much crop to harvest
then shoe the points with steel; old stripper
points are suitable. Round off the ends of
the blocks and round off the centre.
All that is now necessary is four skids,
two each side, coming over the block and
along the second tooth from each side. Old
cultivator tines serve this purpose, and
should be 4in. high and L-sliape, the bottom
of the L being Sin. above the block. This
gives the rake the necessary tip to work.
Two iron bands are fitted round the ends
on to a wooden frame and trace chains
on to these. A wooden handle with an. iron
strap fits round the rounded centre. On this
handle, 4ft. long, is a small iron bolt which
engages under a tooth and is lifted when
the rake is full.
The other points then turn right over,
come, down on their skids and slide along
the ground. The handle has enough play
to move between the central fingers, and
the small bolt rides on top of a finger till
ready to tip. When full the handle is moved
to the side, the bolt let slip under the finger,
and the handle lifted to tip.
If the crop is a little on the green side the
whole will be in windrows rooted up, seed
and all in good order for cropping.
This machine does better work on a crop
kept for a crop but will do excellently on
heavily fed clover provided it is not too ripe.
It is the runners which the fingers tear out
of the ground.
James Paterson, the barley grower of
Longford, is the man who built the tool, and
a better man with farming machinery is not
to be found in Tasmania. He remembered
how it was used for harvesting peas 40
years ago. Our village blacksmith had orders
for making 10 of the tools after the thing
had been in action for merely a week. Keith
Gatenby, the Tas. authority on subterranean
clover, is using the tool on 50 acres of mixed
clovers; it pulls the whole crop up, leaving
a bare patch. But it needs a tractor, as when
the rake tips and the pressure releases horses
fall over.
NABAWA AND NOONGAR.
“Wescocky”: Farmers in the far-eastern
portions of the Westralian wheat belt are not
so keen on Nabawa wheat as “Tuart” (B.
15/l/’3O) is. Certainly most of the crop com-
petitions were won by this variety, but most
of these fields were planted especially for
competition.
Nabawa is a comparatively late ripener
and at the start a very slow grower. Thus
'heavy weed growths choke the young wheat
badly. Noongar (or Noongaar) is a fast
grower. Sown side by side, it ripens a month
before Nabawa in our district, and if the
September rains fail its yield is nowhere
near as badly affected as those of later
varieties.
Noongar is easy to harvest and has a
good straw. It is not very susceptible to
wheat diseases and parasites, and frost does
not do it exceptional harm. For outlying
low-rainfall districts with short winters it is
the best variety I know of.
dust from the mallee.
“Alfred O’Toole” : Mallee country blowing
away through the clearing of timber is right
(B. 5/l/’3O). I live in the N.S.W. Mallee,
and repeatedly get the northern or “new”
Mallee (Vic.) from the other side of the
Murray. You can’t see the step to get out
of the house when the sandstorms come across
the border: sometimes they last for days.
Returning from Wentworth (N.S.W.)
through the northern Mallee on the Vic. side
I called on a farmer near Ouyen. He said
there wasn’t a. blade of wheat to be seen in
any direction —the wind had blown it all
away before it could get wet enough to
germinate. And the old hands there tell you
that when the timber was standing dust-
storms were unknown.
That Ouyen farmer told a traveller who
gave his little daughter twopence for a box
of matches that he had made more on that
box of Bryant and May’s than he had done
in two years out of his wheat crops. Still
lie was confident that a good season was
due next year or the year after. Throw it
up? It had never entered his head. And
they are nearly all like that—unconquerable.
FORECASTING THE SEASONS.
“Strict Veg.” : According to Commonwealth
Meteorologist Hunt, the vegetation in Central
Australia will provide the key to the fore-
casting of Australian seasons when the facts
are more fully revealed. His tentative theory
is that there is a cycle conditioned by the
luxuriant growth of grasses after rain, their
subsequent failure and the storing-up of heat
in the exposed soil. This storing up is
cumulative year after year, and when it
reaches its maximum there is a trifle of
480,000 tons of superheated atmosphere in
the middle of the continent requiring removal.
This involves the inrush of a vast mass of
cold moist air from the south. The com-
plete cycle occupies four years, and consists
of two dry years followed by two wet.
PEAS ON THE N.S.W. NORTH COAST.
“V.U'.S.”: “Peas may be planted now,”
say the seed catalogues, and they are even
mentioned by the State Department of Agri-
culture as one of the crops that may be put
in in the North Coast districts of N.S.W.
My 16 years’ experience says “No.” They
will grow, but they will not bear a payable
crop. They flower and give great expecta-
tions, only to fade and be blown off by the
wind.
But peas will do as well in that part of
the country as anywhere else if planted
during the last week of March or any tiffie
in April. The temperature for pea growth
is then ideal.
RAISINS FOR STOCK.
“The Ringer”: Answering “F.S.A.” (B.
1/1/’3(J), I have sold low-grade sultanas at
£4 per ton. It would be easy to buy a fairly
large quantity of damaged raisins at £9 per
ton, the price mentioned by Prof. Perkins.
For the last nine months I have been
carrying out experiments on my own irriga-
tion-block, feeding horses with sultanas mixed
with chaff. I am keeping two heavy plough-
horses fat by feeding them with four kero-
sene-tins of chaff a day with a double hand-
ful of raisins added to each tin of chaff. The
horses fell away when the raisin ration was
stopped. Prof. Perkins places raisins on
the same level as oats. I have proved raisins
to be superior.
COMMUNITY SPRAYING OF TREES.
“Goomarin” : Four years ago the Gosnells
(W.A.) Fruitgrowers’ Association introduced
a system of community spraying for the con-
trol of fruit fly. The experiment has been
remarkably successful. This last season no
member of the association has had fruit
condemned at the markets; orchard values
in the district have increased (previously the
fruit fly had caused great losses), and there
is no possibility of a lazy grower ruining
his neighbors’ orchards.
The Gosnells system provides for a com-
mittee drawn from an area 10 miles long by
Three miles wide. In the spraying season the
committee appoints two men, who provide
vehicles and knapsack sprayers and visit each
orchard every seventh day. The association
furnishes bait. Each grower signs a day-
book showing the number of trees sprayed
and the time taken; this is presented at
each fortnightly meeting, when wages are
paid.
Records of a season’s work are: Visits to
each orchard, 19; trees sprayed, 126,918;
cost £2Ol 10s. 3d. Average cost per tree,
two-fiftlis of a penny.
(Continued on page 31.)


1
• \ 4*1
■ $
J 1
t n
M
£vl& ’
j’
vp
ft
wr
& * : W A p
I;
35
m
m
tii?
4T
sfe*V;JBR
«
Ml-:? -;/;
■ ■
2ft
m
tin
m
»■<
l»!
■
Grow More Wool with MEGGITT S
The growth of wool can definitely be stimulated. Last season, in
many instances, ewes which had been allowed
Meggitt’s Linseed Sheep Nuts
before lambing cut over 21b. more wool than ewes which had not.
In addition they reared more and better lambs.
This year be sure to use ‘ Meggitt s.
FOR BEST RESULTS FEED EARLY
Commonwealth Distribution:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Meggitt,
Limited, Asbestos House,
corner York and Barrack
Streets, Sydney, and all
Pastoral Houses, or Agents.
VICTORIA: New Zealand Loan
and Mercantile Agency Co.,
Ltd., Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Branches.
cyPleggltt JZirniied
HEAD OFFICE ASBESTOS HOUSE.\ORKj BARRACK ST*
SYDNEY ' BOX ISSSE C.P.Q
Works-Pan-amotra.N.SW Wolbourne.Vic Port Adelaide. S. A.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder,
Smith and Co., Ltd., Currie
Street, Adelaide, and Branches.
TASMANIA: F. W. Heritage and
Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart and
Launceston.
Commonwealth Distribution:
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder,
Smith and Co., Ltd., St.
George’s Terrace, Perth, and
Branches. Sub-distributors:
Wra. Adams and Co., Ltd.,
Perth.
QUEENSLAND: All Pastoral
Houses and Agents; also Den-
hams, Ltd., Brisbane; Denham
Bros., Ltd., Rockhampton;
l Cummins and Campbell, Ltd.,
1 Townsville and Cairns;
Corser and Co., Maryborough.
sdf


AND ENJOY GOOl
TH E pleasant practice of taking
Eno’s 46 Fruit Salt” leads to the
enjoyment of really good health. Do
you know days when everything
seems to go wrong and you don t
feel up to the mark; work becomes
an effort; and, when playing your
favorite game you can t do anything
right? Usually the reason is not far
to seek. The most important of
the bodily functions is working
imperfectly. Yet how easy it is to
remedy this! An invigorating glass
of Eno’s “Fruit Salt,” sparkling and
refreshing, before breakfast, will help
your body to free itself thoroughly
from waste and poisons, and put
you on the “top of your form” all
day long.
Eno contains no purgative mineral
salts, so that its regular use does not
form an indispensable habit. Follow
the lead of countless healthy people
the world over start your day with
a glass of water sparkling with a dash
of Eno’s “Fruit Salt.”
[n two sizes at Chemists and Stores
99
MARK
trade
PREPARED ONLY BY J. C. ENO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sales THE BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE & CO. LTD. SYDNEY. N.S.WA


T Jk
mt
■■
l /Ibbe
Springy....
invigorating
Sole and heel of tough crepe
rubber lend this Abbey Golf
Shoe a delightful resilience.
Over the roughest going the
foot is cushioned against all
jarring shocks. The sole, too,
outlasts ordinary leather soles.
In modified brogue style, the
upper is made of pliant brown
calf—s mart e s t and most
flexible of leathers. Sewn to
a strong leather base, it holds
its trim shape. And the special
design of this shoe allows com-
pletest possible freedom of the
foot muscles.
ORDER BY POST.
Ask, also, for a supply of Abbey
Dark Tan Preservative Polish (6d.
per tin), or a handy cleaning outfit
(2/6).
BROWN CALF, 35/-
Sporting catalogue post free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years.
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “Abbey Boots,” Sydney.
FPL 164.
PAXTON HILL RABBITRIES,
St. Neots, England,
are shipping the world’s best full-pedigreed,
first-quality Angora rabbits for wool-farming
at competitive prices. Bucks and does of our
Grand Diploma and Gold Medal strain now
ready. Cable Address: ST. NEOTS, SIXTY-
FIVE.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
y
Dependablef
S
lv/* Cigars
\Craig sAitken
.Sydney N.5.W.
Sayers
Green Seal
Remedy
POR ALL STOMACH WORMS
BLACK DISEASE & FLUKE
The One Remedy Cures All.
Contains Ice. Carbon Tetrachloride per {ice. dose.
900 doses to the gallon; about five sheep treated
for about one penny.
INTER-STATE AGENTS:
New Zealand Loan and Merc. Agencv, Rockhampton
S', s i Pixl * y •' , .... Brisbane
Dalgety & Co Melbourne
! n * £o Adelaide
King Lawless, Ltd ' Auckland, N.Z.
Manufactured by
SAYERS, ALLPORT PROP., LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Glass and Metal Syringes, holding scc. and acting as
Measure and Drenching Syringe, 10/6, post free.
X
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
MAY’S
BROADCAST
FERTILISER SPREADER
When purchasing a Fertiliser
Spreader, bear in mind that the
following features are exclusive
to the “May” and have helped
considerably in placing the
“May” in its present pre-
eminent position:—
FIRST.—The supreme sim-
plicity of the “May”—both
in mechanism and operation.
SECOND.—T he “May”
spreads at least five times
quicker than the ordinary
box or drill machine.
THIRD.—T h e double-piece
hopper makes “Chamber-
ing” of the manure impos-
sible.
FOURTH.—T h e CURVED
spoons on the CONCAVE
bronze distributor plate en-
sure a perfectly even dis-
tribution.
FIFTH.—The regulator is so
sensitive that the quantity
may be gauged to within a
few pounds per acre.
INTER-STATE AGENTS:
New South Wales:
DALGETY AND CO.,
Argyle Street, Miller’s Point, Sydney.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
Parramatta Road, Camperdown.
South Australia:
W. Y. SCRUTTON,
34 North Terrace West, Adelaide.
THE AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO.,
North Terrace, Adelaide.
Queensland;
CLARK AND FAUSET,
Eagle Street, Brisbane.
West Australia:
EASTWOOD’S HARDWARE STORES,
Murray Street, Perth.
Tasmania:
W. HART AND SONS PTY., LTD.,
Charles Street, Launceston.
J. H. STUTTERD,
Wynyard.
H. G. BUCHANAN,
10 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
Manufactured by
D.gW. CHANDLER LTD.
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY,
VICTORIA.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED.
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
FREE!
The New CRUMP Booß
TOPDRESSING
For Profit
4th Edition—Bo Pages—Advice—Results of Tests, etc.—
Also Articles on Care of Sheep, etc.
CRUMP MACHINERY CO. PTY., LTD.,
12 Carlisle Street, St. Kilda, 5.2.
Victoria.
WRITE
NOW.
le A charges t levied by the association
2*pi Ie f ™ b ersh i p fee, 2s. Gd. ;12 trees,
?£JrVi 2 % tree o S^ l2s - 6d - ; 50 trees £1; 100
2®®® f * s f-: 350 trees, £3 75.; over 350
for each 100—these being per
season. The job is done thoroughly, and the
grower is free to carry on with other neces-
sary work. The cost to him is only a frac-
tion of what it would be if he did the
spraying himself.
The Gosnells example has been followed
m other fruit-growing districts with equally
good results. Minister Millington mentions
the case of an Armadale orcliardist who lost
over £l5O last year owing to fruit fly, and
who is marketing heavily this year from a
clean orchard, community spraying having
done the business for £4 14s.
BANANA-GROWING FOR BEGINNERS.
“Coolibah” : The banana is a tropical
plant, and the nearer climatic conditions
approximate those of the tropics the better
for the grower. Before the advent of bunchy-
top the Tweed district (N.S.W.), though well
below the tropics, was, owing to a combina-
tion of local physical features coupled with
fertility of soil, a great banana-producing
area. It will probably come back when
bunchytop has bee'n got under control, but,
just as surely as the sugar industry has
crept steadily northward until the part that
really counts is now beyond Townsville,
so must the banana follow it. There should,
however, be years of profitable production
in sub-tropical areas for those who under-
stand the business.
In sub-tropical districts the site should be
well above frost-level, the aspect either east-
erly or north-easterly, with ample shelter
from the south to west winds, and both
gradient and subsoil conditions such as to
provide natural drainage. In felling the
scrub leave a fair margin standing along
your boundaries for shelter, a vital matter ;
the land sacrificed in doing this will soon be
compensated for in value of fruit.
The life of a plantation may be prolonged
by good cultivation and the use of fertilisers.
Dig the manure well in close to the stool,
using a hoe-fork. This will make it readily
available to the plant and will retard leach-
ing.
Where the area is sufficient a plantation
may be -worked in consecutive plantings. As
the earlier blocks work out, allow them to
revert to lantana; brush and burn this
growth after five years and replant. The
humus and ash thus gained renew the land
for another period. W r hen abandoning a
block to concentrate on a fresh area do not
leave the old stool to breed borers and dis-
eases. Dig them out or treat with arsenical
solution.
After felling, burning and logging the land
to be planted, mark out your rows for holing.
Much diversity of opinion exists, even among
old growers, as to the most profitable
gauge in spacing, but the consensus of
opinion seems to favor about 12ft. x 12ft.
for Cavendish, which will always be the
staple variety in Queensland, with from 14ft.
to 16ft. for the taller kinds' such as Lady-
finger.
About 10 inches is the usual depth for the
hole made to receive the planted sucker. Let
your Cavendish plant be followed _ by three
suckers, at intervals such as to give, you a
continuity of maturing fruit, and retain only
the vigorous stems. A good sucker should
be bottle-shaped, circumference of base being
a good indication of virility. Look for a
good thick butt. Ladyfinger and Sugars may
be allowed six or seven suckers to the stool.
Keep the hoe going, for, besides being
a weed destroyer, the hoe is a great maker
of nitrogen. Chipping is the life of a banana
plantation.
In the Far North absence of frost obviates
the necessity for climbing steep hillsides.
The best and most economically achieved
results here are obtained from the deep
alluvial flats, it being important to see that
sub-soil conditions are right for natural
drainage. The northern flats provide easy
working, ordinary methods of cultivation
being practicable, and present no difficulties
in transport of fruit.
GREEN FEED FOR POULTRY.
“Jaspen” : From my window I can see some
white leghorns gorging themselves with green
feed, which their careless owner has just
thrown to them after having for some time
been too tired to cut and give it to them.
Those hens will eat hardly any mash or
grain to-day. They will be too full of green-
stuff. This will throw them off the lay—
may even produce a false or early moult.
Greenstuff is given not so much for its
actual food value as its tonic virtues. Regu-
larity therefore is essential. Birds which are
used" to it may have a supply before them at
all times. If you can’t manage this, see
that they are supplied at regular intervals,
and not in huge quantities whenever you find
it convenient to cut some. If you have any
birds that have been. without it for some
length of time, don’t give them a big feed to
start on: gradually increase the dose until
you find by observation that they are eating
their maximum requirements without doing
so to -the exclusion of foods more essential
to egg or flesh production.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Can you supply any information as
to the sterilising effects of permanganate of
potash on soils? Would a weak solution
harm leaves of plants? (2) What effect
would sheep-dip have on 50i1? —4484.
It is unlikely that, efficient sterilisation
of soils would result from the application of
aqueous solution of permanganate of potash.
The compound would most likely fail because
the permanganate would be decomposed by
the organic matter in the soil. - A weak solu-
tion of permanganate might be useful to
destroy fungi, the mycelium of which lives
on the surface only. Stronger concentra-
tions would injure the plant. (2) The term
“sheep-dip” is indefinite; it may refer to (a)
non-arsenical or (b) arsenical. Possibly the
latter is referred to. If so, the use of an
ordinary amount would kill any vegetation,
but would not injuriously affect the soil, as
insoluble arsenic compounds would be imme-
diately produced.
Could a N.S.W. bee-farmer take a short
course in apiary instruction at Waiichopc.
If not, where could instruction be obtained.
Length of course and fees? —4641.
There is no regular short course at the
Government Apiary at Wauchope. Arrange-
ments could probably be made for the farmer
to receive a short period of training there dur-
ing the season, but at present there is no
vacancy. No fee is charged, but a student
would be required to assist in the practical
work of the apiary and to pay all his own
expenses. A summer school in apiculture is
held in January at the Hawkesbury A. C.,
Richmond. This usually covers a period of
about three weeks, but of course, the next
school will not be held till Jan., 1931. A fee
of £3 10s. is charged for the course, including
board and lodging.
(1) I sent eight tins of honey to Sydney
and it realised £ll. I received a cheque for
£8 9s. 2d., freight (13s. 7d.), Marketing
Board levy (£1 25.), cartage (Is.) and
commission (14s. 3d.) being deducted. Are
these charges correct? (2) What are the
functions of the Marketing Board? (3) May
I send my hoycy to Brisbane? (4) May 1
sell in the open market and cut the Market-
ing Board out?-— 4673.
(1) Probably. Agents are entitled to charge
61 per cent, commission plus cartage to
store. The board collects 10 per ceift. on
gross sales. Freight to Sydney has always
been borne by the producer. (2) It is
designed to prevent speculation by fixing a
price below which honey cannot be sold. _ As
funds become available, the board will, it is
stated, increase sales of honey by better
marketing .methods, propaganda and adver-
tising. (3) Honey produced in N.S.W.
becomes vested in the board. Permission is
granted to beekeepers to sell locally to direct
consumers or retail stores. Application has
to be made, but the exemption certificate is
promptly granted. The board would not
object to honey being sent to another State,
but it contends that market-prices are lower
and that. the beekeeper would not get the
same return, as he would in any case have
to pay the 10' per cent. levy. (4) No
restriction is placed in the way of any bee-
keeper who has a market for his own honey,
but in every case the levy is payable.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“W.P.D.”: Dr. Brunnicli’s formula for
a stock-lick has proved successful in Queens-
land. It consists of one part common salt
well mixed with two parts of Nauru phos-
phate, ground finely. The manager of Meteor
Downs, Springsure district, estimates that
the carrying capacity of his station has been
increased 50 per cent, by the use of this
lick.
“W.S.”: Saw a handy farmers’ “Inquire
Within” the other day; it consisted of the
Service Department and Man on the Land
pages gummed in a used ledger and indexed.
The farmer was at the moment turning up
some information given in The Bulletin a
couple of years ago.
“Bill R.” : A sound hollow log is a good
substitute for a drain-pipe under a culvert.
Sawn down the middle and boarded at the
ends it is a capital lick trough for sheep or
manger for horses or cattle. Narrow long-
lengths trimmed and halved make guttering
or ridge-capping for the stable or cowshed
or drains from the tank overflows.
“Curlew”: The plan of straining barb-
wire mentioned by a Bulletin contributor
can be improved on by using a piece of
3xl about 4ft. long and having a wide 1
saw-cut to take the wire but prevent the
barb drawing through. With two pieces
any slack can quickly be taken up, and there
is no loss of time plugging.
“Tfl”: I treated a lice-infested yearling
steer by giving him a strong bath (one only)
of phenol and warm water, and administer-
ing lukewarm gruel (a double handful of
pollard and bran) twice a day for a few
weeks. Shortly after the rain came I passed
him over to the butcher for 12 notes.
“Frigid”: Further to the durability of
fencing posts (B. 15/l/’3O), some of grey
ironbark were recently removed in Queens-
land and found perfectly sound after over
60 years of service. A life of 50 years is
generally expected of red bloodwood. The
average life of yellow messmate is about 30
years.
“H.A-C.”: Where a fruit tree has been
attacked by white ants, scrape away the
riddled wood as far down into the ground as
you can, and paint the wound with a solution
of two parts Stockholm tar and one part
kerosene. Warm the tar, add the kero, and
mix; apply with a brush, rubbing well into
the wood. White ants tackle only trees that
have decayed or are bruised under the sur-
face.
“Kesem” : At Kungliur, near Murwillumbah
(N.S.W.), a farmer has successfully experi-
mented in growing Jerusalem artichokes as
fodder. From three acres he produced suffi-
cient to fatten a hundred store pigs. ■ Shelter
and water were provided for the animals in
the cultivation.
“Y”: To temper an axe, heat it through
to a dull but even red in the forge; then
plunge it into a kerosene-tin full of boiling-
water, leaving it there for several hours to
cool.
“Thorley”: Solutions of arsenic are not
wholly satisfactory for weed-killing, and the
risk of poisoning animals is great. Recently
chlorate of soda has given satisfactory re-
sults. It should be used in a 10 per cent,
solution —one pound to one gallon of water.
If the land is moist and the spray is used
just after rain it proves more effective, and
American experience points to autumn as
a very suitable time. In many cases it is
advisable to get a good forward growth, and
many weeds may be killed more surely with
less trouble at flowering-time. Soda'chlor-
ate has a tendency to explode with friction,
wherefore some care is necessary in handling
it.
“Brumby”: “Kell” (B. 15/l/’3O) may b
right, but as a grower I say ten pounds of
lucerne seed is too much for light soils;
six pounds is plenty. Also, if one is feeling
the pinch of the money market super.,
although a wonderful improvement, can be
dispensed with, at any rate, in some dis-
tricts. Here (Warialda. N.S.W.) I have
seen some very good stands on red ridges
that never saw super. But the land must
be well worked.


sd
8
ISP
Cr
4
:^V
c?
Telegraphic, Cable and Wireless Address:
“Austraotel. Sydney
Delightful phases of the art
of living—unexpected comforts
and surprising features—atmo-
sphere and resources that are
rightfully world-famous. . . .
A magnificently - illustrated
booklet tells of the manifold
attractions that await you at
“The Australia” write for
your copy if you are coming to
Sydney.
SMOKE-OH!
TIME’S CHANGES.
Under a- spreading chestnut tree the modern
garage stands,
The owner is a dashed cute bloke, employing
many hands.
The latter do unneeded work on the cars of
passers-by —
And when the owners see the bill then the
sparks begin to fly.
ft- >t
Yic. cricketers think the Test selectors
should have added a Ryder to their verdict.
ft ft
“Though born in Aberdeen, he has spent most of
his life in South Africa.”— Melbourne “Herald.”
And there are people who say that natives
of Aberdeen never spend anything!
ft ft
The recent failure of Australian broad-
casting stations to pick up the King’s speech
suggests that Britannia doesn’t rule the
short waves, anyhow.
ft ft
He kissed her and she was upset,
And made a great to-do.
Next time he does it, you can bet,
They ivon’t use a canoe.
VOCIFEROUS ADVENTURES.
He called for his rent, roared a bit at not
getting it, took a Yeller back to town,
hummed a quid, shouted for drinks for all
hands—and liis wife, describing his behavior
when he got home, said it was a scream.
* ft
“When drunk he threw his money about.”— “Sun.”
Beersts of generosity.
ft ft
“Hundreds of square miles of the East Coast have
disappeared into the sea.” — London “Times.”
No wonder England’s enemies say she is
losing ground.
ft ft
“Wanted, accountant with taxation knowledge, able
type.”— “S. M. Herald.”
Yes, it takes an able type to deal with that
subject these days.
THE FAMILY COMPLAINT.
"My dear, our whole family suffers from indigestion.”
“Really!”
“Yes, every time dad has an attack of it he makes life absolutely miserable for us all.”
“Milk co. issues bonus shares.”
It’s not the first time milk vendors have
watered their stock.
ft- ft-
By day with crowds l love to mix;
And share the happy lot
Of carefree fellows. After six
I seek a quiet spot.
HOW IT REALLY HAPPENED.
Exactly what inspired Hainan’s detesta-
tion of the Jews is not known, but it is
considered by many authorities to have been
Doyle Mordecai’s introduction of the mighty
Wurlitzer to Palestine. Hainan’s objections
were not artistic. A colossal egotist, he just
hated the presence of any bigger noise than
himself.
Doyle Mordecai is described, in the pic-
turesque language of the time, as “sitting
at the gate studying the Scriptures”—or, as
we would say, sitting in the box-office study-
ing the returns. Mordecai had good reason
to do some hard thinking. His business was
threatened. Haman had got his Theatres
and Amusements Control Bill through Par-
liament, and was introducing an Amusement
Tax. Jews were running all the places of
amusement, including, of course, the Jeru-
salem Stadium; and as they were also en-
gaged as musicians, movie operators, etc.,
besides being the backbone of the turf, there
was a good deal in their charge that Haman
was seeking to destroy the Jews.
The King’s assent was required to Haman’s
bill, but he was a weakling, a stage-door
sheik, who had become infatuated with
Esther, then running a long season at the
Royal as “The Queen of Vaudeville.” The
King was overcome by strong wine (i.e., got
blithered) one night, and took a party of
friends home to see how Queen Vashti could
dance. The Queen’s indignant refusal to
oblige sent the monarch on the scoot for
Weeks, and Esther called on Haman to see
if anything could be done about it. It was
here that Haman made the mistake of liis
life. “His eyes looked upon her beauty, and
lo! he lusted after her” —thus, frankly, one
of his friends who was in a position to
know. Losing all discretion, the in-
fatuated anti-Semite made her president
of the “Women’s Purity League (which he
had recently founded), and their liaison was
conducted, for the most part, at the league
headquarters, with the connivance of a venal
charwoman. Unfortunately Mordecai found
out. At the time Haman was on the verge
of putting through his Retrospective Taxa-
tion Bill, which was designed to hang Mor-
decai, financially speaking. Mordecai bribed
the charwoman to sprinkle asafeetida about
the Purity League’s building, and the re-
volted lovers fled to Esther’s dressing-room.
There the king-—following on a hint by
Mordecai —“took them,” as one old chronicle
simply puts it, “in sin.” In his fury the
king tore up Haman’s bill and dissolved Par-
liament. At the ensuing election Haman
was defeated by a Laborite. And Mordecai,
running on the “No Taxation of the People’s
Amusements” ticket, became Premier.
Haman and many of Ms relatives, being
utterly ruined, were hanged on the financial
gallows that he had prepared for Mordecai.
Esther was given a job as Floor-Captain in
the leading Jaffa picture palace, and soon
made an advantageous marriage.
It was a triumph for the moving-picture
and theatrical interests which the Jews com-
memorate to this day in the Feast of Purim.
H. M.
ft- ft-
A married man has cause to groan;
Of nothing can he brag;
Not e’en his nightmare is his own —
’Tis mostly his ivife’s nag.
ft ft-
“ Humanity will not advance until ideas of mystic
Supreme Beings are forgotten.”— Moscow pronounce-
ment.
The future rests on the lapse of the gods,
so to speak.
UNNATURAL HISTORY.
"A scientific mission from Madrid reports that the
supposed bones of the dinosaur, near Tetuan, are
probably the remains of a haymaking machine, aban-
doned by a Spanish farmer in 1917.” — Melbourne
“Sun.”
A few more :
WOOP WOOP, FRIDAY.—Our correspondent tele-
graphs that the extinct Mesozoic reptile which was
recently discovered in the back yard of the Royal
proves to be a Liz., and not a lizard, as was at first
believed. Old Mrs. Jones, who pointed out the error,
said she had often had rides in it in her girlhood.
When she heard it had been mistaken for a lizard she
BETWEEN OURSELVES.
“I cannot realise that Jeanne
is a married woman!”
“Why try? She doesn't.”
smiled grimly and said her late husband had often
called it worse names than that.
MELBOURNE, TUESDAY.—The discovery of the
skeleton of a Dodo on the stage of a theatre once used
for presenting Shakspeare has excited great interest.
A sceptic now declares, however, that it is not a
Dodo, but the fossilised remains of a tram which
slipped its cable when rounding a curve and went
through the wall of the deserted building. Mr.
Garden is urging the members of the Actors’ Federa-
tion to declare it black, whatever it is.
LONDON, WEDNESDAY—Travellers from the
Antipodes report having seen the bones of a huge
animal, claimed by some to be those of a Giganto-
saurus, by others a Brontosaurus, towering over the
land northward of Botany Bay (Australia). The
shape is suggestive of a bridge. The animal itself
is dead, having been cut in two, but life is not
extinct on it, as has been affirmed. On the contrary,
continued observation has disclosed distinct signs of
activity outside strike hours.
ft- ft
“Pickpocket arrested whilst surfing.”
A “dip” in the briny.
ft ft
Racing’s mostly froth and bubble;
Two things stand like brick.
One—to know the prads in trouble;
Two—the ones to pick.
ft- ft-
‘Yairs,” said old Bill, “when tlx’ motors
Knocked Long Dan’s bullick team outer th’
carryin’ bisness we oil thort ’e wos down an’
out. But Dan always wos a resorceful. ole
cow. Within six munce he’s in Sydney an’
on ’is feet. ’E started there as a Perfessor
of Langwidge an’ ’e turned out that flamin’
good that they erpointed ’im speshul instruc-
tor to one o’ th’ leadin’ golf clubs.”
ft- ft-
THE BREACH.
Dear Sir.
Dear Mr. Brown.
Dear William.
William, dear.
My own Darling Bill.
Bill dear.
Dear William.
Dear Mr. Brown.
Sir.
ft- ft
“My ma-in-law’s pegged out!” cried Hus;
We’re all quite pleased, we think it’s fine.
After six graftless weeks with us,
She’s pegged the washing to the line.”
HOW HE GOT HIS JOB.
“Randwiek Council is thinking of taking action
against a surfer who, the Council alleges, dived and
tore the meshes of the Coogee shark net apart.”—
“Sun.”
The worst use to which you can put the
possessor of such hands is to press a sum-
mons into them. Why not put him on the
Council staff, and give him the job of float-
ing about the bay and tearing sharks to
pieces?
Life is worth living when ‘the ’ bus
Is doing sixty-two.
And those who leap aside and cuss
Think just the same as you.
ft *
NURSERY TAKE (1930 MODEL).
Cinderella sat alone sipping cocktails and
smoking fags. Her female relations w(«e at
a party. Her grandma had pinched the
child’s favorite sheik, and her mother had
grabbed poor Cinders’s second string, and
taken them out. The express lift stopped at
the landing outside. Prince Charming!
Gulping a stiff
whisky, the maiden
flew to the door.
Her elderly em-
ployer, who had
more than once con-
fessed an unlawful
passion for her,
stood in the pas-
sage, his Hebraic
nose and imitation
diamonds shining
in the hall lights.
“V ot about a
spot of supper at
Bolony’s, my tear?”
And he leered
meaningly.
“Gran has a
binge on there,”
.objected Cinder-
ella, “and that
idiot of a mother
of mine is with
her.”
“Don’t worry,
my tear. They’ll be
too blind to see
you.”
“In any case
this is its night for
being raided. The
police are due to
arrive at 12, I
hear.”
“Ye’ll get away
at five to.”
But Cinderella
stayed too long,
and was driven
away in a superb Police Van —one that has
the equivalent of 30 horses, and a man in
the King’s uniform standing on a step at
the back. So you see Cinders did it in
style. The lucky girl was presented at Court
next day.
“The female accused was tryin’ the
Cinderella ack,” said the Prosecuting Ser-
geant. “Darncing with only one boot on she
was.”
“Forty shillings or a week,” said the S.M.
Of course, Prince Charming paid, and the
young people lived happily ever after— that
is, they turned in at the nearest bar and
began the party all over again.
C. C.
* *
Dear Bulletin,
I feel I should write to you about the
melancholy case of my friend (and your
contributor) Horace Lyrebuster, who is
perishing of what I diagnose as mal-
nutrition. Calling on him this evening, I
found him filling a stew-pot. “What are
you doing?” I asked. lie turned to me,
A GREAT DAY ALTOGETHER.
MRS. O’BRIEN: “So you’re just back afther
your daughter’s weddin’, is ut, Mrs.
McBabbin? And where did the de-
ception take place?”
and his mental anguish was plain. "I m
preparing one of my favorite dishes,” he
muttered. “You like tripe, don't you.
“Yes,” I stuttered, “but” 7 “Well, have
some of this with me,” he said, and pointed
to a seething mass of MSS. “It’s tripe.
The editor said so.”— Yours, etc., Smurder.


HOW PROFOUNDLY TRUE IT IS-
GREAT THINGS
COM
To James Watt-a Scottish
boy watching a singing kettle
in a Scottish croft—we owe
our Berengaria, our giant
electrical generating stations,
our clanging cities—and but
one step removed the
railways of the world Fo r
in spite of petrol engines and
oil engines or electricity
produced from water power,
civilisation depends still for
its transport and its work on
steam. And like so many
other things which have
enriched the human race and
made men happier, steam
power was the invention of
a Scotsman, the product of
an observant/, endlessly
painstaking Scottish mind.
Hi
m
m
i:s3m
m
WHO
SAYS
\A
?
ASK ALWAYS FOR DEWAR’S-THE SCOTCH WHISKY


0
z
=55
iiiiiiiiiiiijjJiUll
/
A
and cl h
"Illustrating the construction of the rr New Process”
Columbia Records. "A” is the new smooth playing
surface, free from scratch. B” is the hard centre
core which makes Columbia outwear all other records.
ofScience
D
0 you know what causes the scratch or surface noise
common to ordinary phonograph records —and why you
never hear it in a Columbia Record?
Then split an ordinary phonograph record in two —so that
- - and we'll tell you
why Columbia Records
are better / y > r rrr r >
you can get a good look at the inside of it —and you’ll see the
reason. It’s made of what is known as “solid stock” —the core and the playing surface are made of the same
material. The shellac and other materials needed to make the playing surface are mixed all through the
record. These materials are pressed together under heavy hydraulic pressure.
Consequently, when the pressure is released, the fibrous material on the surface of the record expands —and
that’s what causes hissing and surface scratch when you play it.
Now examine the illustration above. It shows how Columbia’s “Laminated Process” not only gives the
record greater tensile strength —it proves how this exclusive Columbia process absolutely prevents objection-
able surface noise and scratch.
First a core of tough, fibrous substance. Then, on each side, a layer of especially prepared paper. On this
paper is built Columbia’s playing surface of shellac and other ingredients.
No fibrous particles can work from the core to the playing surface of a Columbia Record to cause surface
scratch —because it is insulated by the paper layers from the core containing the fibrous material.
Ao other record is made like it—no other record sounds like it—and most
important of all—no other record wears as long!
qA few chosen Records we recommend you to hear
04337
(8/6)
(Wiener Blut—Waltz
l (Johann Strauss)
Bruno Walter, Conducting the Berlin State Orchestra.
04169
(8/6)
Blue Danube—Waltz
(Johann Strauss)
Felix Weingartrier, Conducting the Royal
Philharmonic Orchestra
04111
(8/6)
f Sinfonia—Overture
(J. C. Bach)
JVillem Mengelberg and Concertgebou'w Orchestra
04267
(8/6)
(Shenandoah —Sea Shanty
(Thiman)
The Meistersingers —Prize Song
(Wagner)
IV. H. Squire, ’Cello Solos
04135
(8/6)
II Bacio—The Kiss (Arditi)
La Boheme—Mi Chiamano Mimi
(Puccini)
e 'Maria Kurenko, Soprano
04220
(8/6)
f Ave Maria (Schubert)
l Impromptu (Aulin)
Efrem Zjmbalist, Violin Solos
02835
(6/-)
(The Lute Player
lO’ Star of Eve
Harold Williams, Baritone
02573
(6/-)
The Two Grenadiers
On the Road to Mandalay
Fraser Gauge, Baritone
02811
(6/-)
( Abide With Me
i.The Promise of Life
Fraser C ]ange, Baritone
Columbia
‘^Records
MAGIC NOTES
TRADE MARK.
oAsk your Dealer for a Copy of the Columbia general Catalogue , comprising a "Library of the World’s Dest SMusic’
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS.
botp , fjrnfrmola Ltd . 39 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
ViaTcohimbia Distributors (Vic.) Pty., Ltd. 300 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
ANT)* Kinsr & King. Ltd., Queen Street, Biisbane.
QUEENSLAND. ulrrold, 123-125 Charlotte Street. Brisbane-
W.A.: Phonographs, Ltd., 671 Hay Street, Perth.
S.A.: South Australian Phonograph Co., Ltd., Gilbert Buildings, Gilbert Place, Adelaide.
TAS.: Columbia Supplies (Tas.) Pty., I*l., Launceston, Hobart and Burnie.


‘0&
s|*>
O
X*
' 0 '<!s&&
*7* X"
THE MARK OF THE GENUINE
“ Your Radio Pleasure depends
on the Speaker The ONLY
Speaker guaranteed against hum
or rattle for the life of the Speaker.
That is the X-Core Dynamic Speaker—
made by Magnavox, of course —for only
Magnavox may make a Dynamic Speaker.
Obtainable all Radio Dealers.
Battery operated D.C. Units, £5/15/-
A.C. operated from House Mains. A.C. Units, £7 15 -
Within the
Reach of All
CLEAR, healthy skin and soft, lustrous
hair are your best assets. They are so
easy to lose through neglect, yet so easy
to retain if you will only use Cuticura
Preparations every day . . . The Soap
cleanses, the Ointment heals and the
Talcum imparts a pleasing fragrance.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S.W.
HAIR
GT
NEED
r
HERES
•wrnj-
&
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
StFCUI&riS CMCXICAN)
VkdfW.tSiavn
''REMOVES THE GREY *
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (4/6), 6d. being postage.
<O7
/PLANT and STORES
ror
MX MORGAN
MINING
comprising:
Buildings, Machinery, Turbines,
Air Compressors, Boilers, Elec-
tric Motors, Switchgear, etc.,
Gyratory Crushers, Tube Mills,
Winches, Locomotives, Rolling
Stock, General Stores, Pul-
leys, Shafting, Piping, Valves,
Etc., Etc.
and
Stores, comprising Assay Goods,
Belting, Bolts and Nuts, Elec-
trical Material, Hose, Machinery
Spares, Pipes and Fittings, Wire
Ropes, Rock Drills and Parts,
M.S. Bars and Plates, Drill and
Special Steel, Wire and Wire
Screens, Boiler Spares, Engine
Spares and Mill Spares.
Also Pulverised Coal Equipment [practically new]
capacity 3 tons o£ coal per hour
A special Sectional Catalogue is prepared, giving details
and photographs, and may be had on request. Prices
also on application to—
EVANS DEAKIN St CO. LTD
ENGINEERS AND REPRESENTATIVES
RYAN HOUSE - CHARLOTTE STREET. - BRISBANE 1
Pen snd Picture
The
STATE
THEATESSY
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
Shadow Shows
“Their Own Desire” (M.-G.-M.) rises
above a rather obvious story. It is a “clean”
piece of work —clean, that is, in photography,
setting and character. Just watching it go
past is a pleasing entertainment. The story
is the weakness. A man married to a weepy
woman that any male with an ounce of
respect for the profession of husband would
inevitably leave does the inevitable. He has
a fondness for his daughter, who, however,
stays with mother. The vamping lady has a
son for whom she has her fondness. In the
movie way, this young man and the young
lady meet and are already in love before they
discover who they are. That represents
complication. It is weak, but a fair amount
of ingenuity goes to the unraveling, and
the result is a reasonably passable enter-
tainer. Norma Shearer is well cast in the
gay-sober flapper part.
“Wise Girls” (M.-G.-M.) is “Kempy”—
the entertaining play in which Gus Bluett
had the straight title-role. The movie-
makers persist in making this sort
of change, in-
MARION SCHILLING.
variably for
the worse. The
title, however,
is the talkie’s
only bad blem-
ish. It is ad-
mirably cast:
the dialogue is
good; the
American
voices are quite
bearable, ex-
cept when the
women get on
to top notes;
there is clean
sentiment; and
the whole
business has
some body to
it. The play
belongs to the
family which
includes “The
Family Upstairs,” “The Patsy,” “Pigs”
and a dozen more such. The ingredients
include an ordinary human family, with ma
and pa in the fifties; one married daughter,
another who can’t make up her mind to
accept a good matrimonial offer, and another
in her teens, aching for a breath of
romance. There is the plumber (Kempy),
who calls to mend a pipe. He has read a
book by the hesitating young lady, and, just
as she comes in after a violent row with her
lover, tells her how he liked the story and
admits he had made up his mind to marry
the girl who wrote it. She knocks him off
his feet with a proposal that they marry
immediately; they do, and the rest of the
tale is a straightening out of that little mess,
so that she may get the cove she should
have taken in the first place and the plumber
may get the other one. There are only
eight in the cast, all pretty good. The best
is J. C. Nugent as the old man, a fine
bit of character. His son, Elliott Nugent,
plays Kempy; the two of them, with other
members of the talkie cast, had been in
the original legit, play. Marion Schilling is
a melting young lady, excellent in the
romantic maiden part.
In “The Mississippi Gambler” (Univer-
sal), Joseph Schildkraut is the handsome
and romantic crook with the poker face who
haunts river steamboats in order to prey on
innocent travellers. Joan Bennett and her
father are journeying on the same vessel, and
Joseph takes the old man down at cards.
When charged with cheating by the indignant
heroine he offers to play her a hand, the
stake to be herself, though his intentions
are honorable, as he intends to marry the
prize should he win. This is an offer any
reasonable girl would be likely to accept and
the cards are dealt. Joseph loses and per-
forms his part of the bargain, which is to
forsake his evil courses for ever. After he
has gone the girl turns up his hand and dis-
covers that he held the winning cards. When
your opponent in a card* game behaves like
that there is only one thing to be done. Joan
does it. She sends to the handsome gambler
a locket which her mother and her grand-
mother only gave with their hearts. Unreal
sentiment and improbable romance well acted
and handsomely upholstered.
“Embarrassing Moments” (Universal) is
a bright comedy, mainly because of Reginald
Denny. A farce of no particular strength is
made to seem mealy by this clever English-
man’s acting. He is ably seconded by Merna
Kennedy, one of the ablest exponents of the
art of pantomime in canned entertainment.
She learnt in the best school, playing opposite
Charlie Chaplin before seceding to the
talkies.
The Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer revue is a new
variety of talkie short which merits applause
in places. Jack Pepper has an attractive
voice, but the Pond sisters have a misplaced
confidence in their ability to please with liip-
wriggling and fiat singing. George Dewey
Washington sings about his craving for a
little love and earns a large brick thereby.
Ella Shields’s appearance is altogether
delightful. She is almost as good as reality
and sometimes seems even better. No into-
nation of her voice appears to be waylaid and
maltreated by the microphone.
If “The Time, the Place and the Girl”
(Warner Bros.) were really descriptive of
American. society it would be a sanitary
measure if Dyak civilisation were substi-
tuted. Most of the characters portrayed
would appear more in place running between
the shafts of Singapore rickshaws. Grant
Withers is an uncouth boor, who snarls ni-
way through college as a champion f -
bailer adored by everybody, including adults
who ought to know better. He emerges as
a bond salesman. As such he sells worthless
stock to widows and married women by '
son of his sex appeal, which sex appeal is
entirely undetectable by the observer. H
stayed rascally to the end this paper would
find it in its heart to forgive him, but he
becomes fundamentally virtuous at the en
and marries Betty Compson. That ladj is
unusually wooden. The piece is dull and
long and the voices no beter than they should
be.
The Inky Way
“The Hippogryph”: Re jubilee number
references to well-known pen-names. Many
a Bulletin pen-name must have dropped
out of use not because its owner was dead
or no longer writing, but because he had
been spotted. Only police intervention saved
me once from assault and battery at the
hands of a furious bumble. Result: A valu-
able pen-name gone into recess until re-
moval to another town made its use safe
again.
N.S.W. Travel Promotion League, an
earnest little crowd that meets over grilled
chops to plan and spread its healthy doc-
trines, has got itself into print with “Travel,”
an illustrated monthly. Excellently turned
out, it holds fine photographic glimpses of
Australia and other parts of the earth. Verse
by Will Lawson and engaging travel sketches
from various hands complete the bill.
Dr. C. H. Souter (“Dr. Nil” when he is
ordered a change) has been writing good
bush verse for The Bulletin since 1901,
though there was a period of about 15 years
when he let his pen rust. “Roly-Poly
Plains,” the fine thing in “Aboriginalities”
of Feb. 12, was a memory of H'illston
(N.S.W.), where the doctor practised in the
long ago. The first thing he ever wrote in that
part of the country was the “Irish Lords”
verse by which lie is chiefly represented
in anthologies. George Lambert illustrated
it: Lambert was then (1901) studying and
working in Paris. But Dr. Souter’s first
acquaintance with The Bulletin was
much further back than that. When as a
youth he was leaving for Scotland and study
in 1882 he stayed his last night in Sydney at
a lodging-house in Lower Fort-street, to
which very early in the morning arrived a
boarder who proceeded to wake up the few
who were asleep. The landlady said after-
wards that it was “Harold Grey, The
Bulletin man” —“as though that explained
everything,” the doctor reminisces.
“P.X.”: Apropos the man who has been
writing to The Bulletin one paragraph
a month for 25 years. Away back in 1881,
when William Sowden joined the S.A.
“Register” as chief of staff, be was dis-
turbed to find that there wasn’t a morgue
worth mentioning in the office: the only
obituaries on hand were ancient ones, written
mostly by that Holden who helped Isaac
Pitman work out his shorthand system, and
not kept up to date. For a while Sowden
weighed and measured his material; then
he brought up from Port Adelaide a youth
named Fred Johns, who struck him as pos-
sessing all the industry, method and other
qualifications called for in an ideal custo-
dian of a literary morgue. Johns was
instructed to keep the “Register’s” biographies
in order —and this led him on to compile
that series of Australian “Who’s Whos”
and biographies which have made his name
blessed in every newspaper office in the
Commonwealth.
On Feb. 4 the reports of the previous
day’s divorce cases occupied less than a quar-
ter of a column in the Melbourne dailies.
In ordinary circumstances at least two of
them would have been good for a column and
a headline on the posters, but the circum-
stances weren’t ordinary, the Judicial Pro-
ceedings Reports Bill, forbidding publica-
tion of details, having come into force since
the last sitting.
The Palette
Some splendid piles of masonry are admir-
ably reproduced in the S. Tushingham dry-
points at the Bennett Galleries, Sydney.
Tushingham is an acute worker in light and
shade as practised upon the ancient and
picturesque piles of Seville, Palermo and
like addresses. The Arco Santa Teresa is a
fine thing curiously defective in the animals
that are scattered about the premises. The
architecture, impressively solid, deserved
much better from its maker than a half-inch
donk with a head as big as a mayoral tomb-
stone. Tushingham knows animals, too, be-
cause the horse in a Lincoln glimpse is
undoubtedly a horse and the steeds in an
Amalfi view are as carefully done as the
stone work. The artist has a melodramatic
habit of looking through archways, but alto-
gether it is a tip-top show.
By the generosity of Baron Marks, Paul
Montfort’s statue, “The Court Favorite,” has
been presented to the city and set up in the
Flagstaff Gardens in Melbourne. It is a
strictly conventional piece depicting a leopard
or dog being tended by a slave whose body
contains some admirable passages, but which
conveys no unified impressions. The work
more than ever rouses regrets that the job
of decorating the National War Memorial
should have been given to one man, assisted
by a junior from Sydney. Montfort is un-
doubtedly Melbourne’s leading sculptor, but
State pride is irrelevant in such a matter.
The problem, however, was difficult. If the
sculpture had been left to be done piecemeal
a later generation would probably have ceased
to worry about it, other ideals or wars inter-
vening to draw their thoughts elsewhere.
The proper method would have been to leave
out sculpture altogether and design a simple
monument without figures. As it is, the
edifice is likely to be as old-fashioned as the
Albert Memorial before it is finished.


It's the GIN
they drink
at home
BY APPOINTMENT
The name “ GORDON 99 guarantees the very highest standard
of quality and absolute purity; a reputation enjoyed and
jealously guarded for over 150 years.
Gordon’s Gin is produced in London, England, by the original
process of distillation from the original recipe, the secrets of
which belong to the HOUSE of GORDON and have been
handed down through generations! It is for this reason
Gordon’s Gin has the largest sale at Home and throughout
the World, having no rival for Purity or Quality.
v-w
Wf&t
s
•>?
(#
i /
Gordons
•*v
dry Gin
L©*<M.
t NOLAHO
GOTctoni’s
IN
WHITEST, PUREST & BEST
The Heart of a good Cocktail
Guaranteed distilled in
London, England.
The Largest Gin Distillers
in the World
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Tops”: Queensland graziers at least up-
hold the ban on the export of merino sheep.
A ballot recently taken from all growers
owning over 1000 sheep found 999 owners
of 8,051,500 sheep voting in favor of the
embargo, while 156 proprietors of 1,293,000
were against it. It is charactei'istic
of the casualness of the man on the land,
however, that only 44 p.c. of the ballot-
papers issued were returned.
* * * *
“Dingley”: The new tariff is bringing
quick results, two big British manufacturing
firms having announced their intention to
open in Melbourne shortly. The ancient gin-
making firm of Gilbey is importing plant
and experts to distil its specialty. God-
frey Phillips, Ltd., one of Britain’s big-
gest tobacco-making firms, is forming an
Australian subsidiary with a capital of
£500,000. It is to be hoped the newcomers
will give Australian-grown tobacco a better
spin than some of the firms already in action.
=& * *
“Scotia”: Motorists in Gippsland struck
a new method of business, robbery, etc., last
week. The main road being in a state of
disrepair, an enterprising cocky had sta-
tioned his small son at the paddock gate
with an invitation to motorists to use a
track through his holding which rejoined the
highway further on. Several trippers gladly
availed themselves of the offer, but at the
end of the detour they found the daughter
of the house posted at a gate to collect six-
pence per head from each of them. They
grumbled but paid—nothing like a buxom,
dairy-fed wench when the crops are thin.
* $ * *
“Bus”: The spectacle of individuals pos-
ing as sturdy peasantry and offering fruit
and similar comestibles at 50 per cent, higher
than city prices is familiar to every motorist
along the roads that lead from Sydney.
The Baulkham Hills Shire Council, which
proposes to clear the frauds out of its baili-
wick, throws some light upon their methods.
It asserts that these hucksters buy theft'
supplies of vegetables late on Saturday in
Sydney markets at clearing prices, and offer
them as fresh local produce on Sunday.
“Program”: The goldfish-selling campaign
that has been following the arrival at Sydney
of almost every boat from China or Japan
will hardly survive the announcement by
the police that a hawker’s license is neces-
sary before such wares can be marketed.
On one recent steamer from Hong Kong
there were over 15,000 goldfish in the
fo’c’s’le, besides birds, tortoises, fully-grown
trees a foot high, model gardens inches
square, and other tributes to . Oriental in-
genuity. Some of the Chinese sailors admitted
having made more in one day in Sydney
than they earned in wages on the whole of
the trip.
* * * *
“Mulgo”: Six-o’clock closing has been a
blessing to the bottle-oh. A Sydney youth
I know, being out of work, started collect-
ing empties with his little brother’s go-cart.
That soon got too small, and he advanced
to a small handcart. Still the dead marines
overflowed, and he hired a horse and van
at ss. a day; then he bought a turnout.
Now he employs several assistants, has a
mob of horses, half a dozen spring vans
doing the rounds, a motor-lorry to take the
accumulation to the breweries and a car to
drive to bottle-littered picnic grounds on
Sundays. In addition he has paid for a
house and built a bottle-shed.
* * * *
“Country Ped”: In an age when the
school leaving certificate has become the
minimum qualification for a junior position
in banks, insurance companies and the like,
the Commonwealth’s biggest business depart-
ment —the Post Office —still adheres in the
main to the old primary-school standard as a
means of entry into the department. Nobody
who wishes to'enter the department and work
his way up the usual routes from telegraph
messenger can remain at school until be
secures his leaving certificate, simply be-
cause no one over 16 can be appointed a
telegraph messenger. Hence, a boy must cut
his education short at 15, which is neither
fair to the ambitious boy nor beneficial to
the department.
* * * *
“Chcv.”: Dropped into a garage in Surrey
Hills, Melbourne, the other afternoon, and
found the proprietor putting in his spare
time making an aeroplane. He has .been
nine months at it, and expects to be finished
in another six. The ambitious man is D.
Staig, and he picked up the principles of
constructon at the Essendon ’drome. The
engine is as near to Australian-made as one
can expect of an amateur, the parts that
have not been borrowed from a dismantled
Chev. having been, manufactured by him-
self. The design is made up of what Staig
hopes are the best points of
machines. If the air authorities O.lv. it, he
will fly for hire. It requires plenty of con-
fidence to embark on aeroplane-building, for
no home-built machine has yet been passed
in Vic. It is a cheap ’bus —£400 should
cover it.
* * * *
“Murkah”: Postal registration is a good
deal of a farce, in that the contents of the
allegedly registered article are not men-
tioned. The department gives a receipt for
and undertakes to deliver the envelope or
other container. Should it fail to. do even
that, a sheaf of regulations protects it. Regis-
tered articles are merely placed in a small
bag, which at the last minute before closing
time is dumped into the ordinary mailbag.
Though the bags may pass through a. dozen
hands thereafter the registered portion is
not inspected or signed for. .Should it fail
to turn up at the receiving end the depart-
ment would be quite unable to say. at what,
point it went missing; indeed,, it would
have a lot of difficulty in proving that it
started at all.
* * * *
“Gabba” : Queensland rocked to its foun-
dations when it was announced- that the
Greater Brisbane Council had wound up the
year with a credit balance of £53,685. This
is the first surplus in the history of Greater
Brisbane. But of course everything really
depends upon how much of the outgoings
was charged to Loan Account.


PUN CTU A LITY
(Jke Sssence of business.
To be on time —at all times—
is one of the greatest attributes
to success in life. Start your
boy right. Buy him an Omega
and teach him the value of
being on time!
He’ll soon learn it, if
he owns an Omega.
WAX
m
Wr —TSfeit
M
n
Omega
a
2
3
4
&
EXACT TIME FOR EIFE
' Vi
%
AVOID SUBSTITUTES
Every genuine Kropp stamped “Made
and ground in Sheffield, England.”
Hand-logged
from solid bars
of special steel
Kropp Razors are made at Sheffield, England,
by the world’s most expert craftsmen.
Made so well that every Kropp always has
a keener, finer cutting edge than cast steel
or machine-stamped razors. Kropp means
_ day to day comfort in shaving
fft& for the rest of your life.
KROPP
never requires grinding
Individually tested, and fully guar-
anteed. Black, Ivory or Xylonite
handles. From the usual dealers.
Wholesale only : OSBORNE
GARRETT & Co.,Ltd.,
London, England,
%\%\%
<*N%
<bx«i
(%\%
%u%
*N*X%X%X«iH»X«»%<a
s*
i
FOR
WOMEN
ALSO
IN the myriad tiny cells of the
Aertex wonder weave lies the secret
of healthful coolness in all extremes
of temperature.
Constantly surrounded by fresh air
imprisoned in countless tiny cells the
skin breathes freely and healthfully,
and even in the noonday heat of the
tropics comfort is ensured.
Woven in a specially soft and elastic weave, Aertex Under-
wear for women can be obtained in all fashionable styles,
and ladies can now enjoy the same sheer comfort so well-
known to men who live in torrid climes.
fsd
Obtainable from all Hosiers, Drapers, and
Outfitters. In case of difficulty apply to
THE CELLULAR CLOTHING CO., LTD.,
313-15 Flinders Lane, Melbourne,
Australia.
Representative of the Cellular Clothing Co. Ltd.
u/ho supplies Wholesale Trade only.
AERTEX
teU
<3'rji a
v;fc This Label on all Garments
h a*.’’ ■» * *.*^>■ . np.'JV
ammunition you can shoot with confidence
You can’t afford
to experiment
with ammunition on
a duck hunt. You
want shells that you know are
right because ducks are a mighty
hard test of a shell’s ability to
deliver results.
You want a shell that will de-
liver a killing pattern at a long range. That
is just exactly what Peters High Velocity
Shells will do.
V
In addition the Peters line includes “Target,” a
superior load—“ Victor,” a powerful smokeless shell
of all-round efficiency, at a lower price—and “Pi.eferee,”
a semi-smokeless, as cheap as a black-powder
load. If unobtainable locally, write to nearest
address below.
7
fj
m
n
AMMUNITION
a
> L ~
FREE BOOK.
“What Happens After the.
Shot is Fired,” containing
the first'actual photographs
of charges in flight from
muzzle to target. Write
at once to nearest address
helow.
SYDNEY DEALERS: Sil Rohu, 143 Elizabeth Street; and Anthony Hordern 8 Sons, Ltd.
DISTRIBUTORS:
W. H. Liddle & Co., York and Barrack Streets, Sydney.
Alcock, Pierce Pty., Ltd., Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong Cycle and Motor Agency, Ltd., Perth.
Jas. Hill and Son, Ltd., Perth.
iSS?
Monterey Peninsula, California
Avoid that Tropical Heat
On a trip "Home” the burning
heat of the tropics is something
to be avoided if at all possible.
Travelling by the Matson-
Oceanic route via the Pacific,
from Sydney to San Francisco,
extremes of heat and cold are
never encountered.
For over three hundred days in
the vear cool trade winds pre-
vail in the tropics, making th*
crossing of the Equator a pleas-
ant experience, rather than a
trying ordeal.
The Matson-Oceanic is the
shortest route to America and
England. Delightful calls at
three charming Pacific Island
ports, Suva, Pago Pago and
Honolulu. Comfortable boats,
excellent attendance.
FARES: Sydney to London, Single, First Class throughout, £129;
First Class to New York and Second Class on Atlantic Steamer,
£ll7/10/-; Second Class Steamer and First Class Rail, £97. Round
the World, First Class, £245; Second Class, £lBO/10/-.
S.S. SIERRA
S.S. SONOMA
S.S. VENTURE
SAILING EVERY THIRD SATURDAY FROM CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY.
For Suva, Pago Pago, Honolulu and San Francisco. Special Cheap Excursion
Tickets issued to Honolulu all the year round.
Ifc Oceanic Sit amshipCoi
hatson line
12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Local
Agents
Mcllwraith, McEacharn, Ltd. 1
Dalgety & Company, Ltd. j
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Fremantle,
Albany.
Brisbane, and all Queensland Ports.
Write for descriptive
pamphlets, fare lists ,
sailing dates, etc.
Name
Address


cV
S 5 save?
Q>
FLE
sa
v a one -
W e
es a °*
> al
e*'”' 1 ' ,cc Vi** 6 '°' Ce e i '» l a ' Wa ' ,J
i W o« **
o
Sp
ceX ia^
\iu
vA
7/ I i
m
a
/i!
was
4ii3
i
i
SlOi
l»S
IP
m/A
Fleetmaster is the logical out-
come of to-day’s demand for
rapid, efficient transportation.
All the engineering advance-
ments which are to be found in
the Republic Fleetmaster are
the result of La France Re-
public’s many years of truck-
dealing experience. Unit by
unit everything about the
Fleetmaster adds up right in
the profit column.
INTER-STATE AGENTS:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
117-85 William Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
lllf Franklin Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland), Ltd.,
Creek A Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Republic Truck Sales Co., Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND:
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki & Cable Streets, Wellington.
Factory Representatives :
W. A. CROWLE, LTD.,
Crowle House, York Street, Sydney,


Repairs.
“OUR HANDS MAKE GOOD ARMS"
Firearms sent C.O.D.
HI-POWER RIFLES will make the
KANGA-ROO THE DAY.
Savage 22 Hi-power Rifles, £lO/15/-, £ll/15/-
and £l3.
Savage, 250/3000 Hi-power Rifles, £ll/15/-
, and £l3.
Mauser, 6.5 and 250/3000 Hi-power Rifles,
£l5 ; with Zeiss Telescope, £24.
Mannlieher-Schonnauer 6.7 M/M Hi-power
Rifles, £lB/10/- and £2O; with Telescope,
£3O. *
B.S.A. 303 Hi-power Rifles, £ll/15/- and
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
’Phone, MA3540.
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
1438 Elizabeth Street (near Market
Street), Sydney
You must try this
LIGHT BEER
RESCH’S
PILSENER
' A Drink to Delight You.
NOW A PRODUCT OF TOOTH’S.
Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 6/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner d
la carte from 1/6. Inclusive tariff from 13/6
per day, or £4/4/- weekly. Special quotations for
sporting bodies, etc. Situated right opposite Spencer
Street Station ; no taxi fares; railway porter carries
baggage across if necessary. Please write for
detailed tariff card. Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is
sufficient address.
SPORTING
MOTIONS
Under the Whip
„ Sydney trainers picked the plums at Caul-
field on Saturday, when the Y.A.T.C.
opened its autumn meeting. J. A. Donohoe
landed the Oakleigh Plate'(£lsoo first prize)
with Figure, and Frank McGrath will col-
lect £750 for W. Pearson over Amounis’s
Success in the St. George Stakes. Specta-
tors bent their knees in homage to both
horses.
Eric Connolly, looking pale after his recent
illness, ventured on a racecourse for the first
time for several months. He picked on
Chumree as a likely winner of the Warrein
Hurdle, and saw the son of Comedy King
lose to Honorium (4 to 1) by half a head.
Chumree hails from Adelaide, being owned
and trained by H. W. Torr, who prepared
Wynette for a Caulfield Cup victory in 1928.
The Bulletin scribe intends keeping Chum-
ree in mind for the next V.R.C. Grand
National Hurdle.
Divisions of the Juvenile Handicap were
annexed by Thurlstone (10 to 1) and Golden
Lullaby (8 to 1), respectively. Itosendo, the
Sydney flier, was all the rage for Tliurl-
stone’s race, but he got away poorly and was
buried in the ruck until all chance had
vanished. Sir Francis, favorite for the second
division, led his rivals away # from the
machine, but encountered grave trouble after-
wards.
Figure carried 9st. 91b. and conceded 3st.
to some of her Oakleigh. Plate rivals, all of
whom were made to look cheap. Rupert
Greene expended 17 minutes in dispatching
an obstreperous field on fairly decent terms.
Remora (also from Sydney) and Taurus
began more smartly than Figure, but she
passed them at the half-way stage and
scored on the bit. Taurus (16 to 1), who
gained second honors, hails from Adelaide.
He played, antics in the mounting yard, and
had to be led to the post. Figure did not
become favorite until just before starting-
time. Money was literally piled on her, and
bookmakers’ clerks rushed frantically around
the ring trying to reduce their employers'
liabilities, only to find that almost every
operator was equally in the soup. Donohoe
and his friends must have made a record kill-
ing. Odds as long as 10 to 1 were laid early;
the closing quote was 4 to 1.
To lay 6 to 4 on Amounis for the St.
George Stakes was simply picking up money.
Logically, he had only Phar Lap to beat, and
the dual Derby winner, fresh from a lengthy
let-up, could not -be regarded as dangerous.
H'. R. Telford frankly stated that he had no
expectation of Phar Lap winning; yet book-
makers actually took 5 to 4 about Amounis
at one stage. Frank McGrath had Amounis
in the pink of condition; Phar Lap looked
bright and healthy, but was manifestly above
himself. Jim Pike, on the favorite, was un-
concerned at Parsee establishing a long lead.
He made up leeway in leisurely style,
assumed command when heads-turned'for
home, and won without semblance of real
effort. Bob Lewis rode Phar Lap right out,
but failed by a neck to overhaul Parsee.
This gallop in public will do the chestnut
a world of good.
High Syce and Highland have not pro-
gressed well in preparation for autumn en-
gagements, but Jack Holt credited their
owner, Mrs. L. R. Buxton, with the Salisbury
Welter, in which Elarby romped home. The
brother to Spearer was quoted at 6 to jl five
minutes before the barrier lifted. He started
at 7 to 2, and his win hit the ring very hard.
Elarby did not get a good passage for half
a mile, and the manner in which? he mowed
down the opposition revealed what a splendid
thing Holt and his followers had to bet on.
• • • • • 5 . •
The Holt stable had previously landed the
Bond Cup with Standard Bearer, owned by
J. M. Niall, of the V.R.C. committee. Mon-
diaga (backed from 7 to 1 to 9 to 2) shared
favoritism with Standard Bearer. Though
piloted by Jim Pike, he gave a miserable dis-
play, fading out more than six furlongs from
home. Caramelo, who went wrong in the
spring, showed some of his old galloping
ability, and pulled up well. Romany Rye, one
of the most fancied candidates, whipped in
the field.
* * * s>:
With Amounis, Greenline, Figure and
Toper engaged, Sydney appears to hold a
mortgage, on the Caulfield Futurity Stakes
to be decided on Saturday. Seven furlongs is
a distance somewhat short for Amounis, and
Greenline, with a pull of 51b., may prove
his master. Victoria may gain a share of
the prize money through the agency of
Gallopade, who scored brilliantly in the C.
F. Orr Stakes at Williamstown a fortnight
ago. Fancies:—
Futurity Stakes : Greenline ; next, Amounis.
Woodeliffe Handicap: Standard Bearer;
next, Prince Viol.
Sji * * *
Dan Lewis, the Randwick trainer, and
Pratt, the apprentice jockey, will long re-
member the Warwick Farm meeting on
Saturday. Lewis collected two handicaps
with horses of his own —the first division of
the Maiden Handicap with Rooster, who was
second favorite at 5 to 2, and the Farm
Stakes with Wally Iv, a 10-to-l shot —and
saddled up Theban, the winner (at 9 to 2)
of the Glenfield Handicap, who races in
“W. Carleton’s” colors. Pratt rode three
firsts—Wally K, Belacre (5 to 2) in the
second division of the Maiden Handicap, and
Promara (3 to 1) in the February Han-
dicap.
The Farm Stakes was a capital bet-
ting race, it being 7to 1 the field. Sylvis.to,
who went out at that price along with
Voleuse and three others, flattered Ins back-
ers when he ran past TVedara in the short
straight, but in a close finish he was beaten
by Wally Iv and Voleuse. Theban’s back-
ers have chiefly Johnstone to thank for col-
lecting; by dint of a very vigorous finish the
jockey (very successful this year) lifted his
mount past Greensea (5 to 1). on whom
odds were laid a hundred yards from home.
Prince Verderer (7 to 1) was third.
Promara had a great tussle with Chuquis-
aca before the judge decided in her favor.
A FREE FIGHT.
“Why did you kick ’im in the shins? Don’t you know that’s Blobhs, the ’eavyweight
champion?”
“Aye, Ah ken, mon —but Ah was no goin ’ tae pay ten shutting at the Stadium tae see
him feeht.”
Royal Flavor, from Queensland, was heavily
backed, but fourth was her best on the day.
Smedley, who trains her, saddled up Royal
Smile, also from Queensland, in the Minto
Handicap, the last race, and let her go out
unbacked. His face was a study when she
won smartly from two other outsiders, Cave-
dweller and Bronze Fuze (each 14 to 1).
The mare’s tote divs. (there were two others)
were £lO 13s. for 10s. and £7 10s. 6d. for ss.
—better than her straight-out price, 20 to 1.
ij: ❖
For Roseliill on Saturday :
Dundas Handicap: Golden Voice; next,
Ascalon.
Roseliill Handicap: Eden Hall; next,
Royal Smile.
Granville Stakes: Roseflight; next, Zee-
land. .
Flying Welter: Leisure Hour; next, Star-
like.
# * *
“Don Crew” : Three red-hot favorites had
rolled home in succession, and Graball, the
bookmaker, was obviously displeased. “Come
on,” he shouted; “I’ll bet on the next race;
three to one the field.” “Three dollars Sand-
fly ’’ said a punter, producing five shillings.
Graball brushed the money aside. “I’m not
betting in dollars,” he snapped. Righto,
said the punter soothingly; “but don’t get
so upset. You needn’t take it all.”
* * * *
“Minto” : The campaign against ticktack-
ing on Sydney pony courses (B. 12/2/’3O)
has affected the Leger enclosure considerably.
Having no lead from the Paddock, Leger
punters have to bet in the dark, and this
also applies to the books. Thus a horse may
be 4 to 1 in the cheaper reserve and 10 to 1
in the dearer place, or vice versa. Book-
makers gloomily declare that at least £lOOO
is lost to them each race-day owing to the
rule prohibiting money passing through to the
Leger. Be this as it may, secretary Under-
hill means business. A conspicuous sign
warns Paddock patrons that they must not
approach the Leger fence, and an employee
has been told off to see that they don’t. 1
* * * •
Tho A.J.C. is out early with its autumn
programme, which opens at Warwick Farm on
April 12 with the Chipping Norton- Stakes
and the Warwick Farm Autumn Cup. The
four-day meeting at Randwick commences
on April 19. The first day’s racing includes
the Autumn Stakes, Doncaster, Sires’ Pro-
duce. Stakes and. Leger. The. Sydney Cup
takes pride of place on the following Monday,
while the All-Aged and Champion Stakes
are the big events on Wednesday, April 20.
On the closing day, Saturday, April 26, the
A.J.C.-Plate is the piece de resistance. En-
tries close on March 24 at the offices of all
the leading Australian racing clubs.
- ; *- * * *
“S.” : South Aus., which has from earliest
days been better at breeding racehorses than
at winning with them, now sees the break up
of the Morphettville stud. Thomas Elder
founded it in 1874, on John Morpliett’s land
near the racecourse. It descended to Elder's
nephew, T. E. Barr Smith, but has been
owned by R. M. Hawker since 1910. Gang-
Forward and Neckersgat were among its
great sires of the past; Bold and Bad and
Dunnottar will be up for sale in Melbourne
next month. Another big S.A. stud, Aldridge
and Cudmore’s at Richmond Park, was
transferred bodily to Victoria last year.
* * * *
Poseidon, one of the best performers as a
three-year-old Australia has bred, died the
other' day at Kialgra station, near Coon-
amble (N.S.W.). By the imported Positano
out of Jacinth, Poseidon was bred at Neots-
lield stud in 1903, and was sold as a yearling
by W. and F. A. Moses to H. R. Denison for
500 guineas. He proved a rare bargain,
winning the A.J.C. Derby, Caulfield Cup,
V.R.C. Derby and Melbourne Cup in the
spring of 1906, and topping that off with
the A.J.C. and V.R.C. St. Legers. As a
four-year-old his best performance was his
second Caulfield in 1907, under the tidy
burden 0f'9.3. He started in 33 races, win-
ning 19, with 4 seconds and 2J thirds. As
a sire, Poseidon - was. a great disappoint-
ment, after retirement to his owner’s Eume-
rella stud in N.S.W. The old chap was 20
at weighing-in.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Jack Carroll (lOst. 311b.) demonstrated
to Yankee Andy Anderson (lOst. 61b.) the
scientific side of the glove game in a very
painful manner at Sydney Stadium, and
after Andy bad struggled through 11 heart-
breaking rounds the scrap was stopped.
What Anderson doesn’t know about boxing
would fill a library. From first to last
Carroll’s clever punching and footwork made
the American look a novice. Lefts to the
face sent Anderson’s head back continually,
while fast two-handed punching to the body
took all the steam out of him. His own efforts
to connect were crude in the extreme.
The Ins and Outs \
The last Sheffield match of the season be-
tween Victoria and South Australia at
Adelaide was remarkable for the low scoring
of both sides in tlieir first innings, though
the] wicket was in perfect condition. Vic-
toria was out in the opening knock for 118,
Ryder (37) and Davidson (31) being the
only batsmen to do anything against Grim-
mett (5-55). South Australia fared even
worse, going for 110; Nitschke top-scored
with 27. The destroying agent was ‘David-
son, • a slow bowler from South Mel-
bourne, 4 wickets for 6, Ironmonger assisting
with 3 for 37. Victor Richardson was
stumped off Ironmonger for a single. Vic-
toria’s second attempt realised 396 for S
at stumps on Saturday, Ponsford waking up
with a well-niadc 54. The gem of the innings
was a dashing 152 by a’Beckett, which in-
cluded 17 fours and 2 sixes.
* * * *
“Gash Amateur”: If Jack Ryder has
missed a trip to England, his admirers are
seeing to it that liis feelings are soothed by
the jingle of the guinea, since the subscrip-
tion lists .to that end are assuming a ple-
thoric appearance. Gollingwood Council
voted £100, and a motion was tabled at the
last meeting of the V.C.A. .in favor- of that
body also sending along a three-figure cheque.
Chairman Mackinnon, a pairson of Scottish
descent, thoughtfully intervened with the
opinion that it couldn’t be done under the
C.A.’s constitution, so the matter was shelved
for inquiry.
=!= # • ' ■ * Hs
“Aigburtli” : The discovery that the Hornby
Arctic exploring party • had perished in far
northern Canada recalls old cricket memories,
for the dead leader was the son of A. N.
Hornby, one of the finest hitting batsmen to
play for England and - an unparalleled out-
field in his day. “Monkey” Hornby was a
dynamic personality. Always ready for a
scrap, he took a whole-hearted part in the
famous “riot’.’ on Sydney Cricket. Ground in
1878-79, when he and his mates of Lord
Harris’s team had to fight their w r ay through
an angry crowd to the pavilion.
❖ ❖ * *
“Senex” : Sydney Cricket Ground frequen-
ters were afforded "a peep into the past dur-
ing the season, when the last three survivors
of the first Test, played in Melbourne in
1877, were on view there. All played for
Australia, though one of them, Charles
Bannerman, was born in Kent. The last of
their English opponents, James Lillywhite,
passed over in England last year, but the
Australian trio are still full of beans. Banner-
man is the dean of the party, owning up to
79. J. M. Blaekham has counted 75 years,
while T. W. Garrett is a mere pup of 72.
* * * *
“TV. G. Snort”: The legends of big hits in
cricket make the noblest performances of
Baron Munchausen seem as blameless as a
death-bed confession. If all were to be
believed, there must be many cricket balls
revolving invisibly round this mundane
sphere in company with the moon. There is
not a cricket-ground clock in creation that
has not at some time or other —usually other
—been smashed by some nebulous personage.
However, there seems to be something
authentic about a hit of 170yds. 1ft. Sin.
from the crease to landing-point, made last
week by one J. Moore, of Griffith (N.S.W.),
the distance having been carefully measured
off at once. If correct, it closely approaches
the accepted record, 175 yards, by the Rev.
W. Fellowes at Oxford in 1S56.
(Continued on page //.l.)
“Parallels”: A lot of folk throughout Aus-
tralia and out of it will hear with regret of
the closing of the Brisbane Gymnasium,
which for 50 years lias been the rendezvous
of Bananaland athletes of all descriptions.
It was founded under vice-regal patronage in
1881, and as a gymnastic club and train-
ing centre within easy distance of the heart
of the city numbered among its members, at
one time or another, many of Brisbane’s
prominent citizens, athletic and otherwise.
The-rapid growth of metropolitan golf clubs
is one of the causes assigned for the falling
of in membership which has compelled the
closing of the old “Gym.”.


J
Jp^
o
to
p
v
CP
(J z»
<o
&
/</
</>
£
CO
Q?
<J
D=>
°a
«3
W. McF.
Still Fit and Fresh
when others are
Flat
“Batteryitis” is a dangerous complaint with some batteries—it is
leakage of good current which shortens the life of the battery. The
results are that replacements are constantly recurring and becoming
costly.
Diamond Batteries win enthusiastic tributes from users, because of
their extra life—each section is specially and scientifically sealed in
order to be leakage-proof. This extra insulation is known as the
“section-protected” principle of construction.
Diamond Batteries are far more reliable. Owners of Radio Sets testify to the more even and clearer
reception when Diamond Batteries are operating.
Hundreds of Thousands of Diamond Dry Cells Supplied to
Government Departments.
Tests by officers reveal that the Diamonds supplied are giving more Watt Hours than specified
under the contract. i
Diamond Australian-made Batteries are “8 Weeks Fresher” and better value than imported.
Catalogue Free.
PRICES:
“B” BATTERIES.
No. Type. Size. Volts. Price.
1. Super Capacity 10j| x6| x 3 60 25/-
2. Super Capacity 8 x6i x 3 45 207-
Light Duty 8| x3gx 3| 60 167-
Light Duty 8i x2lx 3| 45 12/-
“C” BATTERIES.
1. Super 3| x U x 3 4.5 37-
TORCH UNITS.
Single Cell 1 £ diam. x2| high 1.5 Bd.
If you have difficulty in procuring from your local Radio Dealer, write or ’phone
DIRECT FACTORY DISTRIBUTORS.-
The Hendon Electrical Company
GROUND FLOOR “WHITEHALL,” BANK PLACE, MELBOURNE. ’Phone: F 4952.
N.S.W. Representatives: REG. ROSE & COMPANY, Kembla Building, Margaret Street, Sydney.
r ’
■
■ : ■ 4 ;
m
f i
*
si/JOJf puviiiwuap ui
SWIW OOO'OOO OJ
The number of men who would take to
the air if they knew the truth is incalcu-
lable.
The distance flown in de Havilland
Moths in the last five years is beyond
10 million miles.
Flappers and greybeards, forest wardens
and company directors, mothers of fami-
lies and professional pilots, all manner of
men and women have helped to pile up
this extraordinary Moth mileage.
You men and women in the prime of
life can benefit remarkably by light- ’plane
ownership. The pleasure and profit which
your widespread social and business
interests bring you will be vastly increased
if you eliminate the slowness of roads
and trains.
It takes roughly 12 hours’ tuition to
qualify for a pilot’s ticket. The price
of a Moth is less than that of many
popular cars. Equipped with the tuition
and the ’plane, you can travel “as the
crow flies’’ wherever and whenever you like.
The simple, comprehensive facts and
figures of light-’plane ownership are avail-
able in booklet form. Write and we will
send a copy post free.
GIPSY MOTH
2-seater, with dual control, and with
steel body constructed specially for
Australian conditions.
Some MOTH Conveniences.
Speed, over 100 m.p.h. Petrol, about 20 m.p.g..
Oil, 1000-1500 m.p.g. Width with wings folded,
9ft. lOin. Height, Sft. 9Jin. Length, 23ft. llin.
One person can handle the machine on the ground
alone and take off alone. Any small level paddock
is a suitable landing ground. The Moth Service
Organisation covers all Australia.
Price, £B2s—ready to fly away from any capital
city aerodrome, complete with all equipment,
registration and Government certificate of air-
worthiness.
The De Havilland Aircraft Pty., Ltd.,
Whiteman Street, South Melbourne,
5.C.5.
DEALERS:
“Qantas,” Ltd., Brisbane and Longreach, Q.
Macßobertson, Miller Aviation Co., Ltd., Adelaide,
South Aus.
Lee and Chisholm Bros. Motors, Swan Hill, Yic.
Matthews Aviation Pty., Ltd., Box 1860, G.P.0.,
Melbourne.
Qipsy Moth with folded wings.


ADELAIDE’S
Most Modern Hotel
THE
HOTEL BOTANIC
NORTH TERRACE, CITY.
Delightfully Situated
Garden Frontage
Balcony Rooms
All Latest Appointments.
IMS
NATURE’S REMEDY, HEALTH-GIVING AND REFRESHING.
Burgoyne’s Fruit Saline is world-
famous for its wonderful health-
giving properties—it is an agree-
able, invigorating and cooling drink,
and is a speedy cure for Bilious-
ness, Sick Headaches and all fever-
ish conditions. Acting, too, as a
mild aperient, it cleanses the system
of all impurities.
All chemists sell Burgoyne’s
Fruit Saline. Keep a bottle ih the
house; all the family will enjoy it.
ASK YOUR CHEMIST FOR
BURGOYNE’S FRUIT SALINE.
W. W. GREENER
GUNS
0!
W. W. GREENER LTD., Birmingham
Wholesale Australian Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.,
405-07 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, C.l.
(qERT A. WRECK • M
\ feeu sorry
For the poor old thing - ',
CqERT: C< SoRRV FOR IT,\NHY?”
E?ert •. "Comrades in Dvstress,
I'M BROKE Toco. v>
The Ins and Outs
“Jolimont” : The wave of Ryder hysteria
washed up to king-tide mark when Chief
Secretary Tunnecliffe received an epistle pur-
porting to come from Pentridge gaol. The
document stated that the senders—it was un-
signed—were residents of B Division —the
long-sentence coop. It passionately requested
that the. State’s resources be swung in favor
of a revision of the Australian XI as selected,
to “rectify the wrong done to Australia and
to Ryder.” The peroration was to the effect
that “outside our own particular faults” the
petitioners had as much sense as most people,
and evidently more than the Australian
selectors. Nothing that comes out of Pen-
tridge astonishes the accustomed Victorians,
hut the chances are that Tunnecliffe’s leg has
been pulled.
* * * *
A well-known member of the Melbourne
Cricket Club committee, Edward J. Cordner,
has just passed on to a better world
where there are no Boards of Control and
no team selectors. Ted Cordner began his
athletic career in Bendigo, where he was
captain of the Sandhurst footballers; he
also played with the Bendigo United C. C.
in the days of Midwinter and Harry
Boyle. For many years Cordner re-
presented the M.C.C. and the Melbourne
Football Club on the associations, and did
excellent work through a long career as
eommitteem an.
* * * *
“Cover”: That plea for insurance against
rain by sporting bodies (B. 29/l/’3O) should
not in future fall unheeded on the ear of
the N.S.W. Cricket Ass. In addition to
other losses this season due to wet weather,
treasurer E. A. Tyler estimates that the
loss of three days’ play in the N.S.W.-Vic-
toria match in Sydney recently cost the
association £3OOO. As ft was, expenses were
barely cleared, while a comparatively trifling
outlay on insurance premiums would have
assured a handsome profit.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Someone has been won-
dering in the Sydney press why a lefthand
bowler is more effective than a righthander
on a sticky wicket. One reason is that right-
hand batsmen are much more plentiful than
lefthanders. To the righthander, the ball
turning from leg provides a difficult problem,
since lie has to hit against the break, and
finds it difficult to keep good length stuff
down. The righthander’s break comes to
him, and is easily pulled or forced to the
leg side. For the same reason a righthander
who knows his business can always make
things awkward for a lefthand batsman, the
latter being usually at home to the lefthand
trundler’s stuff, which is an off break to
him. There have been exceptions, as Warren
Bardsley could tell if F. R. Foster’s name
comes up.
* ❖ * %
“Shrewsbury” : “Plum” Warner, who is as
liable to error as any other expert, has
announced that Hobbs, Sutcliffe, Hammond
and Woolley will be the first four batsmen
selected for England against the Australians.
Chapman he considers too fat, a criticism
which has brought an indignant denial from
that nimble if elephantine person. Hendren,
Wyatt, Leyland and Duleepsinhji are also in
the running. Tate and Larwood he is not so
sure of among the bowlers, but is enthusi-
astic over Robins, Voce and Allen. Allen has
already met the Australians, whose fellow-
countryman he is. Robins is an amateur
googly practitioner who was given a gallop
against the South Africans last year. Voce
is that unusual bird a really fast lefthander,
and may trouble the Australians till they
get used to the novelty, as F. R. Foster did.
* * *
“Lancaster Park”: The presence of the
English cricketers has set M.L. statisticians
raking up all the cricket memorabilia they can
come by. One of them claims that, whereas
only some 20 cricketers have taken four
wickets with as many consecutive balls in
first-class cricket, M.L. harbors three of
them. One is F. Shacklock, the old Notts
fast bowler, now coaching at Christchurch,
who did the trick in 1593 against Somerset.
Another is Alec Downes, one of M.L.’s
greatest trundlers, who performed the feat
for Otago against Auckland in the same year.
The third is S- G. Smith, of the West Indies
and Northants, and now in Auckland. He
got his quartette for his county against
Warwickshire in 1914.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: The usual complaints are
coming in from the English counties, which
profess to dread the advent of a Test cricket
season on the ground that it destroys all
interest in the county 'championship. There
is something in the complaint, for, after all,
county cricket is the backbone of the game
in England. But it cannot be denied that
tours of overseas players and the Tests pro-
vide the sinews. The huge profits made on
the tour of an Australian Eleven are mostly
divided among the counties, whose cash-
boxes thus acquire that overfed feeling which
otherwise most of them would be strangers to.
The Watermen
C. V. Watson, who died in Melbourne
recently, once cut a wide swathe in Vic-
torian athletic circles. Rowing was his
pet sport, and he was long a member of the
Civil Service Club, and later of the Mel-
bourne when the two w r ere merged. He was
chairman of the Victorian Olympic Com-
mittee, and while serving with the A.I.F.
was one of the selectors of the famous A.I.F.
crew which won the King’s Cup at Henley
from the representatives of the British and
Dominion forces.
* * * *
“Torrens” : It looks as if Mannum, on the
Murray, where the eight-oar race for the
King’s Cup is to be rowed in May, will be
one welter of exclusive society on that occa-
sion. The Governor-General will be there,
and the local vice-regent, and, as if that
wasn’t enough, the Australian Women’s
Rowing Association threatens to hold its
national half-mile championship at the same
time. This should put the lid on a perfect
day.
st: sit s|t
“Stretcher”: Drummoyne (N.S.W.) oars-
men put up some histoi*y (for Drummoyne)
the other day by winning the State light-
weight championship eights on Iron Cove, an
inlet of Port Jackson. The race was oyer
two miles, and the winners led the fancied
Mosman crew home by a length and a
quarter in the good time of llmin. 3sec. As
this is the first time the comparatively
youthful club has ever scratched home in a
championship event there was a sound of
revelrv in the waterside suburb that night.
"** * *
“H.M.E.”: On a recent world tour I
spent a week-end at Toronto, and went over
to Hanlan Point, where the Durnan family
have boatslieds and refreshment-rooms. I
met young Durnan, who has been the amateur
champion of Canada for the past two years,
and is a fine lump of a lad. He knows ali
about our Bobby Pearce and is anxious to
meet him. This young Durnan is the son
of Eddie of that ilk, defeated by George
Towns on the Nepean in 1907.. Eddie is _ a
nephew of the late Ned Hanlan. Will
Australia ever forget the Beach and Hanlan
boat-races of the ’eighties?
Racquet and Bawl
The N.S.W. tennis championships in
Sydney produced reversals of form which in
racing would call for the attention of the
stipes. All the cracks who had shone so
brightly in Melbourne went down in the
singles, including the Davis Cup quartette.
R. O. Cummings beat his fellow Banana-
lander E. F. Moon in three straight sets
for the singles title. Crawford and Hopman
redeemed themselves somewhat by winning
the doubles from Moon and- Cummings, while
Crawford shared the mixed doubles cham-
pionship with Miss Cox. In the women’s
singles, Miss Bickerton outgeneralled the
cyclone from Queensland, Miss Hood, who
had smashed her way past all the rest of
the opposition. The long lass from the
effete tropics followed up her Victorian
successes, however, by taking the junior
singles.
H* #
“Top Spin”: With the Davis Cup team
out of the way, the Australian selectors
chose four players for the M.L. tour —Kalms,
Sproule, Donohue and Teague. The first
three are N.S.W. men, the fourth a
Victorian. How the selectors came to over-
look the brilliant Queensland representative
Cummings, who mopped the floor with all
and sundry, including the Australian cham-
pion, Moon, in the N.S.W. singles, passes
comprehension.
Si! * * *
“G. Long”: The brain-fagging business of
deciding just what is an amateur enjoyed a
new twist when the holder of nothing smaller
than an amateur decathlon title for Aus-
tralia applied for membership of a leading
Victorian tennis club. He was barred on
the ground that he was a professional athlete
and therefore, presumably, incapable of
gracing the genteel atmosphere of tennis.
The objection was based on the fact that he
had played in first-grade football in the State,
players in which are paid (in addition to
unnamed sums disguised as boots, letnons,
trips, etc.) an unambiguous pound or so a
week to cover their lost time in playing and
training.
* * * *
“Scrooge” : The N.S.W. tennis heads have
got John Gilpin among the also-rans when it
comes to a question of frugality. The other
night they refused a motion to pay the six
women players w T ho represented the State. in
Victoria £5 each towards board and lodging
expenses in Yarraville. The tightwads
announced that they had paid the fares for
the half-dozen, and given them a couple of
pounds for all other expenses, including sleep-
ing-car charges, and that was quite enough.
Two pounds would hardly pay for a couple
of rounds of cocktails, to say nothing of
bridge or the squawkies.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Brassey”: The latest communique from
the N.S.W. golf front reports further seces-
sions to the ranks of the insurgents, Moore
Park and Long Reef clubs having gone over
to the anti-metropolitan side. Six more of
the leading suburban clubs are being con-
fidently claimed by the breakaways. Once
the slide starts all the others are likely to
follow suit. Then, with the country moujiks
solidly behind the rebellion, it looks as if the
Big Pair, with their faithful camp. follower
Concord, will be left in splendid isolation.
* * * ‘K
“Sandringham”: Royal Melbourne club
has for some time realised that its Nine-
teenth Hole accommodation is not adequate
to its dignified position. Several mushroom
growths of later years have quite eclipsed it
in the splendor of their appointments, and it
is felt that the time has come to put these
in their proper place. No less than three
architects have been called on for designs
for a new club-house, which “will definitely
place Royal Melbourne in the forefront of
all Australian clubs.” It is to cost 40,000
of the best, and, in addition, the course is
to be remodelled and another 18-holer is to be
constructed on the Cheltenham side of the
present links.
* * :|: *
“Toombul”: Ron Oxenham is paying in-
creasing attention to golf, for which, like
many cricketers, he is showing considerable
aptitude. In a recent week-end foursomes, in
company with the State open champion,
Arthur Gazzard, he played another amateur
and J. R. Quartern, doing so well in the first
round that his handicap for the second was
cut from 13 to eight. As the Queensland all-
rounder is getting a bit long in the tooth for
first-class cricket, it is> expected that he will
definitely go to the Royal and Antient game
next season, and leave the intrigue and strife
of representative cricket behind him.
« * * *
“Divot Digger”: Considerable dissatisfac-
tion has been expressed by golfers over
the H'agen-Kirkwood programme in N.S.W.
As it stands at present, the pair are
to give four or five exhibitions against
each other in Newcastle and Sydney. How-
ever, the N.S.W. professional golfers are
trying to arrange a match which will include
a couple of their members, while it is pro-
bable that the Newcastle fixture will be a
match against two Australians, Ivo Whitton
being mentioned as one of them. In Vic-
toria matters have been better arranged, the
itinerary including a match for the pair
against two professionals at Royal Mel-
bourne's course, and another against Whitton
and Mick Ryan, holder of the Australian
amateur title, at Kingston Heath. Adelaide
and Brisbane, where exhibition matches-are
also listed, are both trying to arrange at least
one tussle with local players. For instruc-
tional purposes one round of a match is
worth a dozen of exhibition play.
* * * *
“Carnoustie”: America has been absorb-
ing British professional golfers for some
years past, most of her prominent players
being unable to pass a speakeasy without
that involuntary twitching of the nostril
which marks the North Briton on such occa-
sions. Now, for a change, an amateur has
been imported, this being T. P. Perkins,
amateur champion of England in 1928. The
exile has explained that he has been forced
from his native land by the fell boot of cir-
cumstance, so to speak, an attractive billet
in N’York having been offered him. Having
taken it, he is now a golfer without a
country, since he can neither play beneath
the Union Jack nor Old Glory.
* * =|: *
“Carnoustie”: A Sydney golfer discovered
the other day that his drive had come to rest
on the I som of a very defunct sleepy lizard.
It was a delicate and probably insanitary
shot to play, so he “lifted and dropped,” hop-
ing that no penalty would accrue. If the
deceased had been on the putting green, the
corpse could have been carefully removed
with the fingers as a loose impediment under
penalty of a stroke if the ball was moved
(Rule'2B, 1). As the defunct was obviously
not a wheelbarrow, flagstick, grass-cutter,
or similar obstruction (Rule 2) the ball
could not be lifted without penalty. Nor
does the same rule as to lifting from a
hazard apply, since this was a lizard. Alto-
gether, I am of the opinion that either rule
6, which enjoins that a ball shall be played
from where it lies except in cases provided
for by special rules, should govern the case,
or else rule 22, giving the player the right
to play a ball if he considers the first unplay-
able, 'under penalty of a stroke. In any
case I reserve final judgment, pending an
appeal to St. Andrews.
;!; ;j; j}t
“Hotliam”: Victoria’s Golf Association,
which once professed to regard the N.S.W. -
originated Kirk-Wiudeyer Cup as a base
upstart, has now gone to the other extreme,
and is making a strong effort this year to
annex the trophy at present held by N.S.W.
This year’s tourney will be played in Maori-
land, and the Cabbage Gardeners have
decided to send five players to wrestle for
the mug. The association has asked 20 of
the leading amateurs if they will be avail-
able supposing selection looks their way, so
a strong side should be got together, especi-
ally as fairly liberal expenses will be paid.
So’ far, M.L. and N.S.W. have had it their
own way in this tourney.
(Continued on next page.)


fleiyl; Ration
fH e
Dog food
Supreme
NSf
A perfectly balanced meat ration;
keeps dogs of all kinds in
the pink of condition.
In Tins. READY TO SERVE.
A Perfectly-balanced Ration.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB
P. O. Box 1821, Melbourne
Ken-T : Ration
Winchester Rifle, Model 56.
22-Cal. Long Rifle only
Handles well
and
Shoots well.
sd
f
The Rifle
for Small Game
Price, £5. Post free to all parts of
Australia.
The Gun House,
COWLES <a DUNN,
453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Catalogue B.
wmm
m
:
f JMake
s
the Fini
lasi
Loud
er
/
&
Every
Car Needs
SIMONIZ
Have you ever stop-
ped to realise how
important Simoniz is to
the finish of your car?
It’s just about indispens-
-7 able in the care of DUCO
and lacquers.
Simoniz withstands the tests
of time and weather and gives
lasting protection that is so neces-
sary to make the finish last longer
and keep colors from fading. It
leaves a hard beautiful surface that
lasts for months and stands the wear
and tear the finish usually gets.
Then, too, it’s so easy to keep a
Simonized car looking clean and
bright, as all dust and dirt can be
wiped off with a dry cloth without
danger of marring or scratching the
finish.
Anyone can Simoniz a car, for Simoniz
and Simoniz Kleener are easily applied
with a cloth. Dull-looking, tarnished and
discolored finishes can be quickly re-
stored to their origina'l lustre and beauty
with Simoniz Kleener. Then use Simoniz
for that beautiful lasting protection.
Insist on SIMONIZ.
It makes the finish last longer.
Sold by all Good Motor Houses, Service Stations and
Hardware Stores at 2/9 Small Cans; 5/6 Large Cans.
In ease you cannot obtain locally, see note below.
M
A
D
E
N
A
U
S
T
R
A
L
I
A
sdf
ANOTHER WONDERFUL
SIMONIZ
PRODUCT—
SIMONIZ
PENETRATING
GRAPHITE
OIL
“LOOSENS THE TIGHTEST NUT."
Simoniz Penetrating Graphite Oil
instantly
DISSOLVES RUST,
LUBRICATES CAR SPRINGS,
STOPS CHASSIS AND BODY
SQUEAKS,
FREES GUMMED MOTOR VALVES,
LOOSENS ALL TIGHT NUTS
AND BOLTS.
Sold in handy Boz. can with long spout. Price 2/6.
IF YOU CANNOT OBTAIN SIMONIZ PRODUCTS
FROM YOUR USUAL DEALER, SEND POSTAL
NOTE TO
SOLE A U S TRA LAS I AN DISTRIBUTORS,
MOTORITE EQUIPMENTS PTY., LTD.,
188-96 Peel Street, North Melbourne.
FREE SAMPLES
of simoniz and
KLEENER ON REQUEST.
i
Apply with a cloth
Car and Cycle
“Formula’’: One of the stiffest reliability
trials in Britain is the annual affair from
London to Exeter and back, a 400-mile run,
which is always staged in winter. Weather
conditions were awful on the latest occasion,
but 168 cars faced the music, as well as
many motor-cycles. Heavy rain and rough
going were responsible for many minor
casualties, while a hailstorm complicated
matters. Nevertheless 132 cars and an un-
specified number of motor-cycles stuck it
out to the finish. There was a great mix-up
at the close, competitors refusing to accept
responsibility for unavoidable delays, and at
last advices the actual winners had not been
sorted out.
* * * *
“Munchausen”: A long-drawn-out motor
tour ended in Britain recently, when Captain
and Mrs. Wanderwell, so self-styled, com-
pleted a seven-year tour through four con-
tinents and 43 countries, including Soviet
Russia. The Red Republic was so impressed
by the lady’s feat in driving to Europe from
Vladivostock that it made her a colonel in
the Red Army, an invidious attitude towards
a visitor. The pair will be remembered a
few years ago in Australia, when they were
preaching the formation of an international
police force to carry out the dictates of
the League of Nations. The tour began in
1922, and is said to have covered 60,000
miles. What good is to accrue from it is hot
quite clear. There is not even an advertise-
ment for the car used, for no reference is
made thereto.
“Whizz”: With the English spring in
sight, another exodus of leading dirt-track
motor-cyclists from Australia is beginning.
Among the departing riders are Vic Huxley
and Frank Arthur, both of whom got among
the big money last year. Both are signed up
with the leading British circuits and have
another good year assured them. In addi-
tion to these riders, at least a dozen others
of varying calibre are going .over to try
their luck.
* * * *
“Richmond”: Though spectacular crashes
are common enough in motor-cycle racing,
fatal accidents are not often heard of. An
exception to the rule was the death at Mel-
bourne Motordrome last week of the Vic-
torian rider Reg Maloney, of the Geelong
dirt-track club. The accident happened in
a handicap event. The riders were bunched,
and coming out of the straight four men, in-
cluding Maloney, came down. The others
were unhurt, but Maloney’s skull was frac-
tured. He was to have gone to England in a
few weeks.
$ * $
“Spoke” : Mathew Engel, the German pro-
fessional cyclist now racing in Sydney, was
one of the greatest of European amateur
sprinters until he was disqualified for pro-
fessional practices just before the last
Olympiad. Amateur cycling on the Con-
tinent is like amateur tennis in Australia—
everyone wonders how its professors make a
living. One yarn told of Engel goes to eluci-
date the mystery. One of the big American
promoters approached him in his amateur
F. C. CHICHESTER, the young English
airman, whose solo flight from Britain
to Sydney was successfully accomplished
after initial setbacks.
days and offered him a good contract to ride
as a professional. “Why,” said Engel,
“should I turn professional when I can make
more money as an amateur?” The promoter
gave it up, but a little later the Amateur
Federation took a hand and shoved Engel
and a lot of his contemporaries over the
dividing line.
“Sprocket” : D. Gray, the N.S.W. Olympic
cyclist, recovered the laurels dropped a week
previously, when he lost the N.S.W. mile and
5-mile championships to D. McGregor, by
taking the 10 and half-mile titles at Sydney
Velodrome. Gray’s time for the 10 miles
was 20min. 38 4-ssec., a record for the race
and 3min. 44 l-ssec better than the standing
figures by A. Bassett. The half-mile was
done in a minute dead, 4 4-ssec. worse than
E. W. Schneider’s record.
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer”: A sensation has been caused
in professional athletic circles by the state-
ment of a Victorian official tliat dope is
freely used on track-runners. One doubts it,
for the effect of most of the drugs in use for
B. A. HALCOMBE, the Westralian fast
bowler, whose delivery has caused con-
siderable controversy in Melbourne and
Tasmania ,
assisting athletes is problematical, though
cocaine might help a runner over a long
distance. The only dope we used on the boys
in my time was a stiff nip or two for cold-
footers —every stable has one or two. I
made one exception when I found my best
sprinter, Black Paddy, had been squared f:o
run a bye, just before a big Sheffield at the
Towers. Luckily I knew the starter’s Sydney
police record, and had a word or two with
him. When the pistol went, Paddy gained
30 feet in one jump out of the holes. He
won by a street, letting the smarties down.
You see, the starter slipped a dust-shot car-
tridge into his pistol instead of a blank, and
the muzzle happened to be pointing at
Paddy’s rear elevation when she went off.
* * * *
“Spike”: The various Australian athletic
authorities, which had received the invitation
to the Empire Games in Canada with an
emphatic lack of enthusiasm, were recently
galvanised into action by the offer of the
Games Committee to contribute £lOOO to-
wards the expenses of any visiting team.
Meetings were hurriedly held all over the
country, and it is practically certain a side
will go over—at the other fellow’s expense.
As this country is talking of holding a huge
athletic carnival in Sydney to celebrate the
opening of a bridge over the harbor in 1931,
and as the Olympiad at Hollywood will be
held in 1932, it looks as if Australian athletes,
at least, are in for a strenuous time. How-
ever, the Empire show at Hamilton (Ont.)
will give our people a chance of measuring
up with the two other leading athletic
Dominions, M.L. and South Africa, both of
which, also spurred on by a £lOOO offer, have
undertaken to send representatives.
=!= * * %
“Gliillie Callum”: Introduced to M.L,, as
the rabbit was to Australia, for sport, the
red deer is promising to become a greater
pest on the other side of the Tasman than
Bunny is on this, for, apart from its attrac-
tion for deer-stalking tourists, the beast has
no commercial value, as the rabbit has.
From a small herd introduced in IS6S the
deer now number many thousands, and in
the South Island particularly are now not
only a serious menace to pastures and
crops but to forests also. In these they are
destroying undergrowth and even standing
trees, with the result that erosion of the
mountain slopes is increasing alarmingly.
Deer killing by bands of professional hunters
was instituted, and these bagged 11,000 head
in Nelson, Canterbury and Ofcaao districts
alone in the year ending March, 1929. Any-
body who has a scheme for wholesale deer
murder will be heartily welcomed in the
Dominion nowadays.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The feminist movement is
taking hold on Victorian sport. The local
women’s athletic body has been holding a
hen convention to decide whether it shall
run its own shows or remain, as at present,
under the domination of its masculine in
feriors» There seems to be a movement in
favor of the Continental and American plan
of holding women’s sports separate from the
he varidty. A lot of people will agree with the
proposed change. By all means let the dears
hold their sports exclusively on their own,
choosing Tanami, Ocean Island, Tristan
D’Acunlia or some other secluded spot for
the purpose.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: A matter of vast im-
portance to the sacred cause of amateurism
was brought up at a recent meeting of the
Queensland Amateur Swimming Ass. The
female section wrote wanting to know if
the wives of caretakers and lessees of public
baths would in future be permitted to rank
as amateurs, since under existing rules
their husbands were rated as professionals.
It really amounts to an international ques-
tion, closely akin to that concerning the
nationality of a wife who has espoused a
foreigner. Recognising the gravity of the
situation, the Queensland heads wisely side-
stepped the issue, which was referred to
the Australian Ass. At the same time a lot
of people are wondering if any caretaker’s
or lessee’s wife has been winning any impor-
tant prizes lately.
:!: * * *
“Splash”: One result of the conference of
the Amateur Swimming Union in Hobart lias
been the decision to levy 6d. a head annually
on all registered swimmers, the money to be
applied to the expenses of the next Olympic
team. It was further decided to invite a
Japanese team of four, including one woman
swimmer, to visit Australia in 1931. Im-
portant was the announcement that the In-
ternational Amateur Federation has decided
that anyone accepting the customary ss.
pocket-money allowance in future will be
ineligible for the Olympic Games. This
comes as a bit of a surprise, since the allow-
ance has been recognised for years as the
permissible limit for amateurs.
* * * #
“Long Dog”: The' 33rd annual meeting of
the N.S.W. National Coursing Association
showed that public interest in the sport of
coursing hares in an enclosed area is losing
its grip, the balance-sheet showing a loss
of £1164. A desperate, if unchivalrous,
attempt was made to remedy this by a
motion requiring all lady visitors to cours-
ing meetings to pay entrance fees allee same
mere man. At present the gentle sex gets in
for nothing when it goes to see a hare
chivvied and perhaps chopped. It was also
desired to alter a time-honored custom which
permits dogs to be entered for events in the
names of folk who are not the owners of the
longtails. This was properly defeated, for
if coursing has any excuse for existence
to-day it lies in its ancient traditions.
% :J: *
“Hotham”: Payments to Victorian foot-
ballers (B. 12/2/’3O) are certainly over the
fence for a sport which is not actually rated
as professional. Last year Carlton shelled out
£3037 in players’ fees alone. Other pay-
ments were £2400 by Collingwood, and so on
down the list to Hawthorn, which only dis-
pensed a pitiful £1287 to its gladiators. Mel-
bourne F. C. never publishes its salary list,
but, considering some of the recruits it has
enlisted in years of fruitless endeavor to win
the premiership, it should be a fat one. In
all, 11 clubs paid out £21,078 to players
last season, while for the past five years the
total is £102,781. It seems time the Vic-
torian League followed the example of the
British Football Association, and instituted
a flat-rate payment system with cast-iron
transfer regulations.
* * *
“Stand Off”: The sorrows of the N.S.W.
Rugby Union have been added to by the
retirement of Waratah Alec Ross, one of the
best full-backs Australia has produced. The
young man lost a year’s studies through his
trip to England, and failed in his medical
final last, year, so has wisely resolved to
turn his attention to the more serious things
of life. His place will be hard to fill, on
present indications, Westfield, who figured
in two of the victories against the All
Blacks, is by no means up to Ross’s stan-
dard. However, he is pretty sure to im-
prove, though it is by no means unlikely that
when the time comes to select an Australian
side against the Englishmen the sound and
solid K. Burke, of Newcastle (N.S.W.), may
get a look in. Another possibility on last
year’s form is the Victorian Murray.
“Spike”: Sydney Uni., which has long
been exchanging Rugby Union visits with the
M.L. Universities, is out to extend the entente
cordiale. It is likely that an M.L. side will
take part in the Australian inter-Uni. cham-
pionships in Sydney next June, and before
that a Sydney team is to tour M.L., starting
about Easter. The ’Varsity hockey team
also intends to take a trip to the Shivery
Isles in August. One of the special attrac-
tions of the inter-’Varsity sports in Sydney
will be a boxing tourney, a comparative
innovation in these contests. Boxing has a
great vogue in the M.L. foundations.


f
§p-sSpl
*
ii
&?& MM
m
i
«aßis
1
r 5
SS
m
•••'SSWH
Wm 'M ■
hommmrn
Ton-Mile Transportation
Every detail of the Ford Truck is designed for one purpose
—Lowest Expense per ton mile.
A N investment in a truck —
/% unlike the purchase of a
motor-car —is purely a busi-
ness proposition. • Every single
factor should be regarded solely in
relation to its bearing on the one
all-embracing consideration of
operating costs per ton mile.
And the lowest possible haulage
cost per ton mile is exactly what
the Ford Truck offers. Not just a
good truck at a low price; not just
durability, low running costs,
driving comfort and the many
other individual attributes in which
the Ford excels —but a definite
reduction in the overhead expenses
of your business. . . .a definite
increase in business profits,
pounds, shillings and
pence.
Make a careful £ s. d.
comparison of the
Ford with oth e r
trucks, irrespective
of size or horse-
power. Look closely
into every feature
that has a bearing on
this question of ton-
mile transportation.
Look into price and
petrol consumption in relation to
carrying capacity and speed. Con-
sider the influence on your cost of
transportation, of reliability, quick
starting, ease of handling and
safety in difficult places (a big
time-saving factor).
Such an investigation will show
clearly why large fleet owners are
choosing the Ford in ever-increas-
ing degree. . . .business concerns
which record every shilling spent,
every hundredweight carried and
every mile covered by their
vehicles.
No matter what variety of mer-
chandise you have to haul, there
is a Ford body style to meet
your needs. Consult
your nearest Ford
Dealer; he is con-
fronted daily with
haulage problems of
all kinds and can
show you relevant
facts and figures.
These will be of real
assistance in your
search for low-cost
ton-mile transporta-
tion.
FREE HAULAGE OFFER.
To provide you with authentic infor-
mation as to the cost of your haulage
by Ford ton-mile economy methods,
Ford Motor Company of Australia
Pty., Ltd., has arranged with
Authorised Ford Dealers throughout
Australia to provide a Ford Truck
free for one day to any firm or
person who is a user, or bona fide
potential user of motor trucks. Get
in touch with your nearest Ford
Dealer and a truck will be placed at
your service for a day’s work free
and without obligation. Then com-
pare the operating expense with that
of your existing transportation
methods.
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY., LTD,
*


Pontiac’s record for reliability
proves its
sturdy,
staunch
qualities.
YEN more than a careful examination of its
J-J mechanical features, the Pontiac record
for reliability proves it to be a staunch and
sturdy car.
For three years —since it was first placed on
the market —owners have praised Pontiac’s con-
tinuous trouble-free operation .... for three
years garages have noted how rarely it requires
attention, how negligible is the demand for re-
placement parts. And out of this has grown
the conviction now expressed everywhere:
“Pontiac is pre-eminently a reliable car !"
Pontiac was designed to give long life, to
endure hard service, and to operate satisfactorily
month after month and year after year. But it
is also a car of distinctive appearance and ex-
ceptional riding qualities; a car easy to drive and
economical to own.
There is a Pontiac dealer near you who will
be glad to demonstrate; to show you the big
powerful engine, the strongly built frame, and
the generous weight of metal in all vital parts.
He will also explain the value of the General
Motors Warranty that protects your investment,
and tell you how easily purchase may be made
on the G.M.A.C. Terms Plan.
Prices from £298
GENERAL MOTORS
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Brisbane - Sydney - Melbourne • Adelaide - Perth
sdf
Big car features
combined in no
other car of its price
1. A 200 cubic-inch L-head engine,
2. The Harmonic Balancer.
3. The G-M-R cylinder head.
4. The cross-flow radiator.
5. Automatic Temperature con-
trol.
6. Fully counter-weighted crank-
shaft.
7. Aeroplane-type interchange-
able bronze-backed hearings.
8. A 1{ inch carburettor, includ-
ing an internal economizer
and an accelerating pump.
9. A petrol pump, in place of
the conventional vacuum tank.
10. Special patented expansion-
type piston pins.
11. Full-pressure lubrication.
12. Crankcase ventilating system.
13. Internal - expanding 4 - wheel
service brakes of the most ef-
ficient type.
14. Special moulded, non-squeak
brake bands. Positively nc
squeaking when stopping.
15. Smart, specially designed
bodies.
16. Flaring mudguards—7o inches
between outer edges.
17. Unusually high radiator ol
distinctive design.
18. VV type windshield on closed
models.
PONTIAC
it’s a GENERAL MOTORS car
look inside and note the difference l


7hp centre of Queens /onc/s
'ct/stingu'&hec/ Soc/o/ Li/e.
prfcl
Ft Of Ciq
BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and 'Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5750—10 Lines.
sdf
Write for booklet to; —BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
Breast fed.
The healthiest, strongest chil-
dren are reared this way. But
as soon as feeding begins to
overtire, mothers should
partially feed with Benger’s
Food. Nursing mothers should
also take Benger’s.
sd
Food
Eegd. TUA.DK MARK.
Unde?
Royal
Warrant
fsd
ToH.NL
GeorgeV
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
It® 111
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Lirnitad
SYDNEY
champagne
Qiarleslleidsi^
REIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
10 YEARS OLD.
Australasian Afters w
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Have you
ordered
Kraft Chcese?
Goulburn is famous for its clubs. It sup-
ports not only Tirranna and the oldest and
best-men’s club outside Sydney, but the Lady
Belmore, where the women of the neigh-
borhood foregather. Jane Brenan arrived
there from Sydney the other day with Mrs.
Wilfred Fairfax, Margaret Fairfax and Anne
Gordon to present the club with a portrait
of Lady Belmore, Lord Belmore, a Gover-
nor of N. S. Wales, visited Goulburn in
1569 to turn the first sod for the railway,
and his wife planted an oak-tree in what
is now Belmore Park. One who is still a
member of the club was present at the tree-
planting. This is Mrs. Forster-Rutledge,
whose family, like the Faithfull, Osborne and
De Lauret families, lias been associated with
the Southern District since the beginning
of things. The club’s lion. sec. is Louise de
Lauret, aunt of that clever young novelist
Helen Simpson.
There was an almost Continental atmo-
sphere about St. Mary’s one morning last
week when R.C. Sydney turned out to con-
gratulate Michael Archbishop of Sydney on
his SOtli birthday. To the Pontifical High
Mass the laity and clergy flocked in hun-
dreds, many of the former as well as the
latter wearing their working clothes. Here,
soutanes and surplices fluttering, came the
prelates taking part in the celebration: here
were laboring men who looked as though
they’d asked for an hour off their job; here
were girls smart in cool silk tennis frocks.
At least one man parked his golf-sticks
handily till Mass was over. Devout old
ladies, decorously black-clad, in their hands
well-worn rosaries, sat beside sleek women
ready for a luncheon or a bridge engagement.
Mrs. John Barlow, Dame of the Holy Sepul-
chre, and Papal-Countess Freehill were in
the same row. The front pews of the great
cathedral were occupied by representatives
of Church and State, though looking at the
crowded and resplendent sanctuary one won-
dered where all the dignitaries in the body
of the church came from. The Papal Dele-
gate brought his purples. The Papal Knights
were resplendent with their decorations, the
different religious bodies sent representatives,
each in the robe of his order, very outstanding
being a tall Dominican in his black and
white. There were 50 children, drawn from
every school in the diocese, from the most ex-
pensive college to the little “poor” schools in
the back streets. And over all a choir of
50 boys poured out the Kyrie and the Gloria.
Looking at the Archbishop’s face, it
seemed appropriate that Time should have
made a delicate network of the skin of one
who for 60 years has been a fisher of men.
At least ohe was reminded of that passed-
and-gone Papal Knight Tom Dalton, whose
gift a shining white and gold altar, is one
of the Cathedral’s riches. Tom was a mimic
of the highest order, who if. there had been
the necessity could have made a fortune on
the stage. One night at a party at Wheat-
leigh, his old home, he slipped away from
his guests, to re-appear wrapped in a soutane
left by a visiting cleric; and for 15 minutes
he had his audience in a gentle simmer of
laughter with personations of leading pre-
lates, his character-sketch of the Archbishop
being the cleverest of all. This Letter
hastens to add two things: that the mimicry
was kind and there were no clergy present.
Youth was at the prow, so to speak, at
the Canberra’s farewell to Sydney the other
night. In a rosy aura above the satin smooth-
ness of Port Jackson, the man-o’-war, her
guns tucked out of sight behind gay bunting
and flags, flew a line of electrics that made
the Manly Carnival an also-ran. Every girl
in Sydney w T ho had got a card from Captain
Holbrook and Commander O’Leary turned
up at the Man-o’-War Steps in good time,
and soon in the warm dusk the landing
looked something like a Spanish print: gaily
embroidered shawls caught the light, and
many of the frocks swung with quite a
Carmen line. The party not being official,
there was an absence of brass-hats, the only
Government House touch being supplied by
Elaine and Graham de Chair. These two
were late owing, as one paper remarked, to
Graham turning up in mess under-dress and
having to pop home to change. Elaine wore
her head curly and her frock with a tight
bodice and a bouffant skirt, its rose, shade
helping in the old-world effect. Green seemed
the night’s popular color, 'and Bessie
Edwai-ds wore it in satin that gleamed like
sea water, Ena Edwards was another
admired in the lorelei shade. Brenda
Richards, in her swirling chiffons, w r as gay
as a red currant. Mrs. Maurice Edwards
from Westralia aired powder-blue lace ; Mrs.
Hine, who came with her Commander, wore
flowered chiffons; and one of the night’s few
black frocks was sported by Mrs. Palmer.
Though even t the oldest and most devoted
members of the' Lyceum Club have to admit
that it is more a place for anchorites than
for those who thrill to the touch of luxury,
women writers, thinkers and artists gravitate
to it in search of kindred spirits, and here
on any day yon are likely to mttet more
highbrows than in any other place in Syd-
ney. Still a cool dining-room and an abund-
ance of cushiony lounges are not despised
even by the woman with a cult. As a pre-
liminary to the year’s work, there was a
party last week, when president Mrs. Bern-
ard Muscio and members of the committee
welcomed new and old members to the fold.
The reception-room was brave with zinnias,
and music was sprayed in sparkling jets
over the company by Muriel Edsall, Nancy
Gillespie and Mrs. Rica Gourlay.
Sydney has been welcoming old friends:
surgeon Alexander MacCormick and his lady,
poetess Dorothea Mackellar and Professor
Francis Anderson and Mrs. Anderson were
among last week’s arrivals. The Professor, who
departed two years ago with the intention
of settling in England, is singing-glad _to
be back in the sunshine and counting him-
self especially fortunate in being in his old
home at Hunter’s Hill —Professor Wallace,
Vice-Chancellor of Sydney Uni., to whom he
had sold it, amiably handed it back upon a
cabled SOS. Consul-General for the Nether-
lands Teppema and his wife are home once
more; so is Robin Reid, who represents
English cars for Dalgety’s and lias had a
marvellous recovery from a bad motor smash
last June. Monsignor Pettorelli, the little
doctor of music who endeared himself to
hundreds when he trained the huge choir for
the Eucharistic Congress, is another who is
glad to be with us again.
A note from a man:—
You girls have got me puzzled. You will parade
a beach all day with nine-tenths of your bodies ex-
posed to public inspection and never blink an eyelash;
but once you don your daily rags you are everlastingly
tugging at your skirt-hem to hide your knees.
Evidently woman’s modesty is associated with her
clothes and not her person. Or maybe your frantic
efforts to conceal are due to a consciousness of the
ugliness of the ruling style of your sine qua nons.
Another man mopped his head and thrust
this into the letterbox :
What’s become of the cummerbund which we were
encouraged to wear through the hot weather of 25
years ago instead of a close-fitted, suffocating waist-
coat? It was made of silk (mostly shot and moire-
antique, I think they called it), was cream, white,
pale blue, maroon or black, as the fancy of the
wearer dictated, and was fastened behind with
a buckle. Who’ll bring back the cummerbund —neat
and tidy and serviceable, and hiding the ugly part
of a man’s pants; where the buttons meet the braces ?
If ever Consul-General billets run short,
Henry Segaert, Belgium’s representative.
could get a job
as a theatrical
producer. Two
or three times
a year since
his * arrival in
Sydney he has
presented, on
behalf of
various French
and Belgian
charities,
a sparkling
French comedy
you can
always tell it
i s sparkling
even if the
dialogue every
now and then
races ahead of
your carefully
acquired
bundle of
phrases. This
week Mr. Segaert produces at the Turret
Theatre, Milson’s Point, “Les Vignes du
Seigneur,” a three-acter by De Flers and F.
de Croisset. The wavy-haired lady in this
picture, Mrs. A. Cau, plays the part of
Yvonne and not a little of the fun depends
on her. The Belgian Benevolent Fund will
benefit by the three-niglit season, which com-
mences on Thursday.
Pioneer Grace Kennedy puts u s right.
She is not the great-granddaughter of the
explorer Kennedy, though her great-grandsire
was James Raworth Kennedy. The explorer
was killed in N. Queensland some years after
j r Kennedy died in his own home near
Windsor. His tomb can be seen in the
churchyard of St. Matthew’s at Windsor.
Now that musicians and actors, free of the
big managements, are trying to help them-
selves Sydney is threatened with more varied
entertainment than it has known for many
a night This Letter rejoiced and was
exceeding glad over the roll-up to the. sym-
nhonv concert given by out-of-work musicians
in the Town Hall. With George Portus
managing and our best-known conductors on
the stool, the succeeding concerts should be
as great a draw as the first. Fred Quin-
trell then led the forces, and the audience not
only applauded but cheered the orchestra in
the “Peer Gynt Suite” and the “Coppelia
Ballet. Gwladys Evans was the woman singer
on the programme.
Sydney has a rival to the Melbourne
girl who has been returned from Europe
because various people became a little
anxious about her eccentricities. Bare-
armed, bare-legged except for a _ pair ot
sandshoes, and hatless, the local girl roams
the streets apparently with one object
in life —to break every convention. When
the mood takes her, she jauntily walks the
street smoking a cigarette, or helps herself
to a ride on the back of a motor-car; and
once having gone there to draw some money,
she sprawled on the floor of the Common-
wealth Bank to work out a crossword puzzle.
For the illicit car-riding the police recently
rang in a charge of “offensive behavior ;
in the best manner of the radical martyr
she declined to pay her fine, and elected to
go to gaol. Reputed to have an allowance,
and certainly well able to take care of her-
self as far as male advances are concerned,
she once took a job as a cable co. messenger
boy, but apparently found being tied to
routine too monotonous.
Herewith May Moore’s picture of Wini-
fred Hamilton, the writing woman who per-
suaded Steele Rudd against his will to don
a dinner-jacket
and become his
own talkie.
Miss Hamilton
is pushing the
creator of Dad
and Dave
through a
series of lec-
tures with
clever pub-
licity. She
also shows the
audiences to
their reserved
seats, and in
between keeps
a watch f u 1
eye on the
amusement-
tax. Miss
Hamilton i s
also the guar-
dian of Steele
Rudd’s private
correspondence and MS., from which she is
weaving a biography of the story-teller.
The Kretschmann Club, founded for the
furtherance of vocal and instrumental
melody, one day last week welcomed members
to its first party of the year. The pro-
gramme, a particularly fine one, included
among the songbirds soprano Mrs. Tony Lee,
a former Queenslander and a daughter of
this State’s Minister for Justice. He came,
and with him G. 0. Peterson, Queensland's
Home Secretary. They were the only males
in the garden of girls. But your politician
is not easily muzzled, and presently G. C.
Peterson was up and making a speech. Mrs.
Morgan Johns, the Kretsehmanns’ president,
looked cool in delphinium-blue georgettes and
a shady hat; and guests of the day were
Mrs. John Garlick, Mrs. R. T. Ball and Mrs.
Mick Bruxner.
Tregoyd, once the delightful home of the
Chief Justice Cullens, was more than usually
picturesque on a night last week. The grounds
of the old place, now owned by the A. L>.
Walkers, are intricate with winding paths
and little bridges, and on them all the moon
poured radiance. In addition a thousand
lights sparkled like tangled magic above the
lawns and tennis courts. Here stalls and
an open-air cafe did big business in aid of
the building fund of the Royal Motor Yacht
Club (Broken Bay branch). Mr. Walker,
commodore of this section, welcomed Stuart
Doyle, who is head serang of the R.M.Y.C.;
and Stuart, who was accompanied by Mrs.
Doyle, bade the fete open itself, which it
did with the assistance of the Mosman
band. A putting competition and side-shows
helped the mid-summer madness.
The wedding of the week-end was at
Braidwood, w r here Beth, daughter of the
Deuchar Gordons, took formal charge of
Dr. Ashleigh Davy’s socks and ties. The
knot was fastened by afternoon sunshine in
St. Andrew’s at the bride attend-
ing in white satin and an old lace veil lent
by an aunt of Mrs. Gordon. Bride’s sister
Margaret, Flora McLean (Bowral), Judith
Osborne (Bungendore) and Mary Adams
(Woollahra) brought a swirl of yellow
chiffons and coal-scuttle baku hats into the
procession. Congratulated and _ congratu-
lators later met at the instigation of the
bride’s parents in a marquee whose poles
were bound in apple-green garnished with
pink dahlias and trailing ivy.
So modern it combined all the features
that grandmother wore on her best frock was
Barbara Littlejohn’s wedding garb of
acacia-blossom satin. The bodice was very
liigh-waisted and tight-fitting, the waist
was finished with a very full peplum, and
the skirt was very long and circular. Bride’s
sister Pat, Ailsa Cullen (’groom’s sister)
and Janette Collins ’maided in green chif-
fons, the skirts very full and very long, and
the bodices tight-fitting, liigh-waisted and
finished off with little shoulder capes. All
this splendor was progressing up St. Mark's
at Darling Point in the direction of ’groom
Bill Cullen (son of ex-Chief Justice Cullen)
and Canon Beck just as this Letter was
shimmying into its pink overall. Reception
was to be at The Knoll, the Albert Little-
johns’ Darling Point home.
By the time this Letter is in your hand,
Elinor Holmes will be married to Dr. Ralph
Stack. The wedding arrangements have been
keeping Bowral interested for the past few
weeks, and yesterday the vows were broad-
cast in the Bathurst Cathedral, after which
the party at the bride's home was a strictly
outdoor affair. The Holmes garden has quite
a local fame. Here English wild-flowers are
assiduously wooed, and a lyric could be
written to the bluebell corner alone. Per-
haps it was a fondness for field-flowers that
suggested the pale primrose satins in which
the bride was sleekly clad. These were
sheathlike and trailing and wore a curious
neckline that started as a square and went
off into aV. The ’maids wore moire so
fitting to the knees that they were like a
green husk. At the knee-line they burst
forth into a swirl of godets which rippled
on to the floor at the back.
A deed of partnership drawn up by Padre
Clive Yarrington was signed by Nancy Adams
and Edgar Martin, barrister-at-law, in St.
James’s the other night. Nancy, who is the
only daughter of the Fred Adamses, of Edge-
cliff, looked like a Valentine girl in her
early Victorian frock of ivory satin and Vene-
tian point. The round neck-line was finished
off with a berthe; a posy of stephanotis and
pink roses and a tulle veil moored with
orange buds rounded off the picture. Three
bridesmaids, a flower girl and a page walked
in the procession—all pink and blue, like a
happy day. Arthur Moverley, also in the
cross-question game, was briefed as best man.
At the reception Mrs. Adams hostessed in
beige chiffon and lace.
Marie Ducker, one of this city’s pretty
girls, took Kenneth McKinney for partner last
week. St. Stephen’s blessed them, and the
Australia administered corporal refreshment.
’Groomsman Carl Thomas brought his own
band, and, although the wedding was an
afternoon fixture, tables w’ere pushed aside
and dancing unpremeditated, and all the
gayer for that, kept everybody moving. Marie
is the eldest daughter of the Reginald Duck-
ers, of Strathfield, and that suburb was well
represented among the guests. The ’groom,
Ken McKinney, whose people live on Belle-
vue Hill, has a motoring -business in Mel-
bourne. For the vow-making Marie wore an
ensemble of vellum georgettes, with a neat
little hat of vellum crin. and felt, and she
carried a bunch of orchids. Sister Patricia
and Wyn. Henry ’maided in eye-resting green
chiffons, complete as to godet and _ princess
line, while sheaves of golden gladioli gave
them a churchly look.
James Dezarnaulds, solicitor, of Noumea,
and a Grammar School boy of the ’seventies,
brought his daughter Helene to Sydney by
the Laperouse to become the bride of Dr.
Henri Audoye, of the warship Cassiopee.
Father Piquet will effect the exchange of
wedding rings at St. Patrick’s to-morrow
(Thursday) afternoon. Helene is a lovely
dark-eyed girl, and her betrothed is tall and
handsome, with a permanent wave in his
brown hair. She is a cousin of the good-
looking Dezarnaulds girls, of Bellevue Hill.
The bride will travel later by the Nieuw
Zeeland to Batavia, and will join the Cas-
siopee there and have the unique experience
of travelling in two warships to Saigon,
where her husband will be stationed for six
months.
Canon Cakebread, the well-loved rector of
St. Jude’s, at Randwick, has returned from
his travels satisfied that Australia is as
righteous as any other nation, if not quite,
as self-righteous as some, and just as enthu-
siastic, too, about churchgoing. Almost at
the moment the Canon was talkingcame a
letter from a girl-friend in New York ex-
claiming over the amazing church-attendances
in that city, reputedly so Babylonish. Listen :
“In New r York city there are over 1500
churches —twice the number of its theatres
and picture-shows. In the Catholic churches
there are Masses from five in the morning
till 12.30 every day. Masses start in at least
one of the down-town churches at 2.30 on
Sunday morning for the convenience of night-
workers, actors and actresses. The church
is crowded, too, with reverent worshippers—
so packed that tiny stools have to be placed
along the aisles up to the altar steps.’’ Only
the good can find the good—they know where
to look for it —or them. You remember it
was an angel that was sent to Sodom and
Gomorrah on the quest for the righteous
man.
OVERHEARD.
‘Husband (or looked like it): “It’s a sin to pay
£5 for a hat.’’
Wife (or anyway should have been) : “Well, you
needn’t worry about that —the sin’ll be on my
head, not yours.’’


i u
c
„ ’mecins-i
addedi power"
Modern cars give greater power through
higher compressions but “high compres-
sion” cars need a high compression spirit before
they’ll give their best in pace and power ....
appotenic Plume, though specially designed to
enable high compression engines to give their
power-full best, will put new life into any kind
of car .... a tankful will prove to you that
“added power” is there .
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
IHlId
a t)PS


THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
214 Georae Street, Sydney.
StCecrge
New Zealand?
Greatest Delicacy-
.—and fast becoming Australia's. Tiny mch-long fish,
unique in flavour, whitebait is found only in sparkling
New Zealand streams, then for but three months of the
year.
You, however, can have it the year round, with all its
original freshness and flavour, for it is canned on the
banks of the rivers the same day as it is caught.
Try it. St. George Canned Whitebait will give you a
new meaning for the word “delicious.”
IRVINE AND STEVENSON’S
ST. GEORGE COMPANY, Ltd
Dunedin New Zealand
ST. GEORGE Delicacies
3s
!x>
!*■
B
h»
The
“HIGHLANDER”
Work or Lounge
SHIRT
A new idea in Work or Lounge
Shirts —and a very smart one, too.
Fine cotton twill in six plaid and
fine check motifs on grounds of light
and dark fawn, blue and grey.
Strong, cool, may be boiled—colors
guaranteed fast. Two
breast-pockets; attached
collar. All sizes
9/6
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED,
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
MAN ARE HUMAN
BY VANCE PALMER
ILLAJ BY
DARYL* LINDSAL
Synopsis : Boyd McCurdie had
left Abernethy station before the
war to study law in Sydney, where
he enlisted. There were other rea-
sons for his going. His mother had
been dead some years, and his father
had proposed marrying again. Also,
old McCurdie’s dominating energy had
rather overwhelmed him. Meanwhile,
McCurdie had married, but his young
wife had never become quite recon-
ciled to station life. McCurdie, who
had represented his electorate in Par-
liament, had lost the seat over too-
pronounced utterances during the
war, and financial troubles had made
him sell out various station and other
interests and concentrate on Aber-
nethy. The story begins with him
anxiously awaiting Boyd’s return after
years at the war. He is delighted,
but uncertain, and this uncertainty
of how they will now get along to-
gether is shared by Boyd. At Aber-
nethy Boyd feels influences at work
to hold him to the station. He meets
again Josie Duncan, who has a tinge
of black blood in her and is the home-
stead housemaid. Also, he is visited
by - Barbara Mahon —as she formerly
was. She has married during Boyd's
absence a doctor named Day, and is
temporarily up from Sydney, house-
keeping for her brother Leo. Boyd
senses that there has been a break
between Barbara and her husband.
He is still undecided about staying,
but he has visited Barbara several
times, and is quickly working to a
decision.
CHAPTER VIII ( Continued ).
A DECISION was forming in Boyd’s
mind, but it was more an involuntary
acceptance of something that was
flowing around him than an act of will.
This life that was timeless, without thought,
filled with tasks that fatigued the body
pleasantly and kept the mind in a kind of
dream—he felt himself being sucked into
it and drawn under! The sense of detach-
ment with which he had returned home had
passed, and he was hardly conscious how
securely he was held till he tried to
imagine himself sitting in chambers with a
brass plate on the door, watching the blow-
flies buzzing on the window and waiting for
briefs that were slow to come.
He found his father and the other men
camped on the edge of the run, beside an
old, mended yard in which they had placed
the cattle gathered during the day. Mc-
Curdie lay on his back, his head pillowed on
his saddle and his blanket wrapped round
him lightly, looking up through a tracery
of branches at a sky filled with dim stars.
The fire had been allowed to die down,
and on the other side of it Larry Byrne
and a new stockman were stretched in atti-
tudes of sleep. A little further off, Dun-
can sat alone smoking a final pipe, young
Jim curled up at his feet. In camp the old
man was always the last to turn in and
the first to awake, so that it had become
a joke that no one ever had seen him with
his eye closed. Before composing himself
for sleep he never failed to make sure that
the beef was hung out of the reach of the
dogs and ants, and that the water-bag was
filled in case anyone should want a drink
during the night. No one had imposed
these duties on him, but it was his nature
to accept responsibility in small things.
“You’re late,” grunted McCurdie, as
Boyd came up. “Thought you’d be stay-
ing at Niva Downs overnight.”
“No,” said Boyd; “I was bringing a colt
of Barbara’s over, and it proved a devil of
a job. Pulled away at the fence and nearly
got off into the timber. Lord alone knows
where it’ll be by morning, though I’ve got
it so short-hobbled it can hardly move.”
He sat down and began taking off his
leggings. The cattle inside the rickety yard
lay silent, except for the sudden agonised
bellow when some cow remembered the
calf she had lost in the crush. It was a
disturbing sound, but it did not altogether
destroy the quiet harmony of the night.
From the creek-bed came the tinkle of con-
damines, the clear air imparting a silvery
quality to their tones, and the leaves over-
head stirred faintly as if sensing the wind
that would bring rain. A faint warmth, the
residue of the day’s heat, came from the
dry earth, and the breath of it was not
unpleasantly mixed with that of leather and
sweat-stiffened saddle-cloths.
“Been asleep?” asked Boyd, stretching out
his blanket.
“No,” said the old man. “Never want to
much when I’m camping out. Seems such
a damned waste.”
He. sat up and lit another pipe, the flare
of the struck match showing his indrawn
cheeks and bald head.
“That’s so,” agreed Boyd.
And then, as if announcing a decision
that had taken long in forming, he added:
“I’ve made up my mind to stay on.
Things can’t be picked up just where I left
them down in Sydney. It seems as if I was
meant to stay on here and settle down.”
For a long while McCurdie was intent
on getting his pipe to draw. When he did
speak there was a perfunctoriness about his
tone.
“Meant to? Of course you were. I’ve
always taken for granted you’d be staying
on. Lord, yes! What would be the sense
in your chasing round after briefs, or
hunting up decisions fifty years old? It’s
a poor game. I never thought you’d go
back to it after that break abroad.”
He stretched out a hand and fondled
the head of the. cattle-dog that lay at his
feet. In his big figure, sitting hunched-up
in the light of the dying fire, there was a
suggestion of heavy power. He had always
got what he wanted in the end; he always
would!
Boyd felt a surge of resentment sweep
over him at the way his father accepted the
decision. Why had he taken it for granted?
He himself had a sense of surrender, not to
the old man, but to vague, impersonal
forces, the smell of sun-dried grass on the
tawny plains, the look of a shady cattle-
camp at noon, the general flow and
movement of this familiar place that corres-
ponded with some rhythm in his blood.
“Naturally I’ll want to know where I
stand,” he said after awhile. “It’s not my
place, of course, but I must have some con-
trol and a share in the profits. It’s best to
have these matters put on a business-like
basis in the beginning.”
“Oh, anything you like,” said McCurdie
easily. “Don’t worry your head about that.
I’m ready to clear out when you’re properly
in the saddle. Give you a half-share and
a free hand. Couldn’t say fairer than that,
could I, eh?”
He knocked the dottle from his pipe and
lay down again, drawing the blanket up to
his chin. The dog at his feet whined a
little in its sleep and shifted its paws un-
easily, as if it were chasing cattle through
the maze of its dreams. Boyd, lying on
his back listening to the slow breathing of
the other sleepers, had a vision of Bar-
bara’s hands moving among the orange silk.
But what had she to do with his decision
to stay on at Abernethy? He was not in
love with her; that fact was firmly estab-
lished in his mind. Besides she was tied to
that shadowy figure down in Sydney.
Almost inevitably she would go back to
him.
The sun was above the line of mulga
when he woke and the men were letting the
cattle feed on a strip of plain near the
yard, while Duncan was frying something
over the fire. A spluttering of fat, a queer
smell of burning gidya, a faint sound of dry
twigs snapping in the distance!
For awhile Boyd lay still, gazing with
drowsy eyes at a small brown figure by the
dam. It was young Jim, who, unconscious
of being watched, was climbing a dead tree
that overhung the water, his naked body
gleaming in the soft sunlight. He stood
for a moment at the end of a limb, still as
a statue of bronze, yet seeming to quiver
invisibly in the anticipation of action. No
young and thoughtless faun could have
more thoroughly embodied the eager joy
of life. There was a tension of his muscles
as he gathered himself for the dive, and
then he sailed downwards like a bird, strik-
ing the water with hardly a splash. Not a
ripple betrayed his presence till he came
up twenty yards away, shaking his head like
a terrier and flirting the water from his eyes.
“How about a swim?” said McCurdie,
appearing with a towel. “I can’t watch that
boy and keep dry.
The boy saw them coming and scrambled
to the bank, gathering up his small bundle
of clothes and scuttling into the bushes.
Through the ragged undergrowth he could
be seen racing aljout to dry himself in the
sun, the water gleaming on his crisp, black
hair. His flying form made an ironic con-
trast with that of the stiff-jointed old fellow
whose rounded back was bent over the fire
a hundred yards away.
“Something in that boy!” said McCurdie,
stripping off his shirt. “When I see him and
old Hobblefeet together I often wonder”...
He did not finish the sentence, but
plunged into the dam, striking out vigor-
ously arm over arm, his back and
shoulders gleaming like marble in the
yellow water. A strange thrill of admira-
tion for his father shot through Boyd as
he followed him into the water. Some-
how the old man had managed to keep
young, in spite of his bald head and pon-
derous figure! Would he himself be as
full of freshness and vim at sixty-seven?
The feeling of conflict with an aggressive
will vanished, and he was conscious instead
of a natural sympathy that had roots in
their common blood. It went deeper than
any difference of tempei'ament, after all!
Perhaps that fear that he would be blotted
out if he did not fight for his own hand
was only a survival of his moody boyhood.
“Fine horse, that of Barbara’s!” said the
old man, as they climbed out to dress.
“Been badly treated about the head, though,
and will need careful handling You’re
still of the same mind as you were last
night?”
“About what?” asked Boyd in surprise.
“Staying on! It wasn’t just an impulse?”
“Good Lord, no!” said Boyd. “I’d
thought it all out. Even if I had any han-
kering after a career at the Bar, something
would hold me here. This is my life, after
all.”
“Good!” replied McCurdie with a grunt.
“That was the way I wanted to hear you
talk, but I didn’t like pushing you. Per-
haps I sounded a bit Casual last night, but
I wasn’t. Just sleepy. God knows I’ve been
looking forward long enough to your com-
ing back and taking my place, so you can
shunt me off whenever you like Hullo,
what’s that boy got?”
Young Jim was coming out of the bushes
trailing a snake he had killed in the timber.
He held it up by the tail, his brown eyes
bright and vindictive as they fastened on
its bruised head. While he was running he
had nearly tramped on it, and he was
still breathing hard from a sense of averted
danger.
“It’s the third I’ve killed this month,”
he said proudly, “and one was a carpet
that I tracked near a hundred yards.”
“H’mph,” said McCurdie, “you’ve got
good eyes, boy. One of these days they’ll
be wanting to snavel you for a tracker;
but take my advice and stick to the cattle.
It’s a better game than hanging round a
police station. What d’you think, eh?”
But the boy only grinned shyly at the
prospect of a future that had no reality
for him.
They sat down to the breakfast old Dun-
can had made ready for them, McCurdie
squatting on his haunches and cutting up
bread with his clasp-knife. He was in high
spirits, and humor bubbled out of him.
No need, he said, for Duncan to worry about
his sight: young Jim’s eyes had enough
sharpness for the pair of them. Enough
knowledge of the world, too. There wasn’t
any need to teach him how many pence went
to the pound, or the letter a bull’s foot
made in the dust! Sitting there with his
legs crossed and the plate of steak in front
of him, there was a quizzical benevolence
about McCurdie’s face, as if he realised for
the first time that old Hobblefeet was a
father, too. A father with the same brood-
ing interest in his son that he had himself.
CHAPTER IX.
McCurdie and His World.
The world was going very well with
MlcCurdie. Not since the slight reverse that
had clipped his financial and political wings
had he had such a sense of commanding
the future. All the last few months he had
been unsure of Boyd, afraid that he would
wander off again when the first interest of
his homecoming was exhausted. There was
that detached look he sometimes noticed
in his eyes; as if he were looking at the
life around him from a distance, and was
not sure whether it was good or not. At
the cost of some effort he had refrained
from making overtures to him, for he knew
that streak of cantankerousness in Boyd,
that inclination to look at the teeth of a
gift-horse. And he had never found it good
policy to show his hand or, for the matter
of that, his heart.
The core of his life was a fierce pride
in his son, shot with affection. It had
gathered strength with the years, consuming
vaguer emotions. Boyd was all he had to
build on for the future. He had always
wanted children, and known he wanted
them, but Ada’s sole contribution to that
desire had been a little girl born dead, and
she had given him definitely to understand
that he had nothing more to expect from
her. Not on that score, at any rate. Some-
thing had gone wrong, and deep down he
resented it. If any woman had seemed like
a fruitful wife it was Ada when he first
married her. But never by look or word had
he betrayed his sense of being thwarted;
indeed, he was only conscious of it when
looking at men like Duncan, whose elder
daughter, Ella, had just been confined for the
third time. What fecundity there was among
these poor devils whose grip on life was
as feeble as a bogged sheep’s! And he
had always felt enough vitality in him-
self to people a continent.
That secret sense of imperfect fulfilment
was a thing of the past, though. Boyd
had come back and was ready to pull his
proper weight; he felt he had nothing more
to worry about.
“You’re in charge now,” he assured him
emphatically. “Take hold of the place as if
it was yours, and make your own arrange-
ments.”
Life was opening out ahead. Good sea-
sons, the war well over, and the price of
cattle still firm! He was conscious, too,
of a feeling of goodwill floating in toward
him from his neighbors—young Farquhar,
Carruthers, Mooney and the rest. They
were treating him with a new deference,
asking his opinion about improvements they
were making, and sounding him about his
plans. Politics? He had not given up his
dream of winning the Baroona seat again
and returning to public life, and Ada’s pres-
sure had become more definite and sus-
tained. She had a perfectly clear idea what
she wanted, A house in town overlooking
the river, a chance to entertain her old
friends, an occasional afternoon on the lawn
at the races. It did not seem much to ask
after the way she had stuck to him,
(Continued on page 51.)


Monday to Friday,
A la Carte Dining and Supper
Service.
Minimum charge 7/6. Dancing till
1 a.m. Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY LATE GALA NIGHT.
Special Table d'hote Dinner, 217-
Special Supper from 1 0 o’clock,
12/6; or a la Carte, minimum, 12/6
Afternoon Tea Dansant—
Monday to Friday, 3.30 to 5.30, 2/6
Saturday, 4/-
’Phone M 4 13 1 for your reservation.
DO YOU WANT TO ENTER A PROFESSION?
fsd
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and
enter a profession where there is a certainty of employment are advised to
send for our prospectus. Here is one profession where the supply is not equal
to the demand. Those enrolling during the present month receive a SPECIAL
CONCESSION.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Accommodation
160.
Central,
Comfortable,
Convenient,
d Mts. G.P.O.
Excellent
Cuisine.
Billiards,
Dancincr.
ORIENTAL HOTEL
(No License)
KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET.
TARIFF:
Weekly,
£3/3/- to
£4/4/-
Daily,
U/6 to 12/6.
.loom & B’fast.
8/6 to 9/6
FL2034
F 3575
HOME for cure of ALCOHOLISM and DRUGS
(BOTH SEXES)
Established 30 years. Highly recommended. Under medical supervision. Fully qualified matron
and staff. Effective and safe.
THE CENTRAL MISSION INSTITUTION,
Moreland Hall, Jessie Street, Moreland, Melbourne.
Telephone: Brunswick 744.
fsd
To
enhance
your beauty
BEAUTY of face is best
framed in a wealth of
charming hair. Make the most of your
hair as a background for your beauty by
using Rowland’s Macassar Oil twice a day.
Comb the oil well into your hair, when it
will show the gloss of health, and weak
and falling hair will be a thing of the past.
Of all Chemists
Stores and Hair-
dressers. Red
for dark hair.
Golden jor fair
or grey hair.
f®!
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London, W. 0.1.,
ENGLAND.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral [?]00[?] P[?]
Buckley e-Numn [?]utod
B[?] [?] M[?]
St. Kilda pier was packed for the open-
ing of the inter-State yachting carnival on
Saturday. The sou’-wester was ideal for
sailing, though a trifle too robust for square-
rigged feminines, one of whom was only
saved from being blown off the jetty with all
sail set by a well-known naval commander.
A short, steep jobble soon gets up on the
bay when there is any wind, and it checked
the light racing craft in stays, but sent them
spinning along superbly when they set their
snowy spinnakers for the home run. The
finish was close. N.S.W. 111, of the
Frince Alfreds, crossed first, with Jim Mil-
son at the tiller. Close on his heels came
Tassie Too, with Harry Batt, who has won
the Forster Cup four times, doing his best
to arrange a blanketing for the winner.
Royalist and the two Queensland craft,
Gwylan and Caress, were mixed up for third
place, Gwylan landing it.
While the crowd was watching these gay
events'* at St. Kilda a tragedy was being
enacted three or four miles further along the
beach at Middle Brighton. The dinghies
were manoeuvring for a start in another
race when the cry of “Shark!” went up from
the pierhead. That cry is periodically heard
at Port Bhillip, but the man-eater usually
turns out to be a porpoise. The last and
only previous fatality of the sort occurred
over a half-century ago, and some deny the
authenticity even of that one. But this
time there was no doubt about it. The grey
terror seized a youth within nine feet of
scores of spectators. The victim struggled
gamely while the monster slowly dragged him
seaward, leaving a wake of blood for 50
yards. Finally the pair disappeared for the
sixth and last time, and the body has not
been recovered. There were dozens of boats
about, and not far off two life-saving teams
were engaged in a competition; but nobody
was near enough to render assistance.
There was very little hurrah about the
opening of Melbourne’s latest bridge across
the Yarra. Bremier Hogan patted the cities
of Melbourne and South Melbourne on the
back for showing such praiseworthy enter-
prise as to build a bridge after only 70
years’ discussion, and Mr. Jones justly blew
out his chest because it had cost £31,300
under the estimated £200,000 although it had
been done by day labor. Then Miss Jones,
daughter of the Minister for Bublic Works,
severed the ribbon, and the official party
scuttled for the pavement to avoid the pri-
vate cars and taxis anxious to be first to
cross. A couple of thousand citizens rolled
up, and the Casino, with her spars hung
about with banners, cast a melancholy eye
over the barrier that has shut her out from
a berth she occupied for half a century. Two
leading racing drivers tied in the bridge-
crossing contest.
With the return of Mrs. Harry Emmerton
fresh schemes are being devised at Raveloe
to swell the Million Shilling fund. There
will be a bridge party de luxe on March
11, each table to cost £2. The players will
be spared raffles, but flowers, sweets and
cigarettes will be pressed upon them. Mrs.
Hewison, who has an English sailing date, is
hon. sec., and other keen workers include
Lucy Rowes, Mary Emmerton, Mrs. George
Bell, Mrs. Marshall Wood and Muriel Camp-
bell. There is to be another tea-party a l
Raveloe early next month, when the jade
carvings recently collected by the hostess will
ibe on view.
The Otranto returned Mrs. Clive Kidd and
daughter Betty to a welcoming family group
last week. They did Ceylon thoroughly in
company with Mrs. Cyril McKay, visiting
tea and rubber plantations, and making de-
lightful stays at Colombo, Kandy and else-
where.
Mrs. Askin Foster will leave for another
trip overseas, with daughters Doris and Jean,
by the Orford next month.
Connie Baul, who left her easel to try a
stage flutter with Margaret Bannerman in
this city, but soon returned to it again,
dropped in unexpectedly on her friends the
other day. She was travelling through to
Fort Said on the Commissaire Ramel, which
was obliged to put in here for repairs. On
leaving the boat at the Red Sea port Connie
goes to Alexandria and thence on a caravan
trip through Balestine and Arabia. After-
wards she may go to London.
Mrs. R. Walker, so many years fairy god-
mother to the South Melbourne CrSche, came
home in time to attend the first gathering
of the year and to entertain members at tea.
She returns looking all the better for her holi-
day abroad.
The latest malady reported amongst Mel-
bourne flappers is talkie neurasthenia. The
alleged cause is that the vibrations from the
screen are of a different length to those of
ordinary vocal organs and even of orchestras,
and the ear isn’t used to it. It is expected
that the populace will learn how to tune in
eventually, but in the meantime it will have
to suffer spots before the eyes, dizziness, indi-
gestion and headache or give Clara Bow and
Adolphe Menjou a rest.
J. R. Darling has come from the job of
history master at Charterhouse (Eng.) to
headmaster it over the boys at Geelong
Grammar. He might have presented himself
as a new boy without much fear of detection.
Only 30 and looking younger, he bears a
striking resemblance to his predecessor, Dr.
Brown, or rather to the ghost of that peda-
gogue’s departed youth. Darling’s specialty
is the poetic muse. He believes in encourag-
ing boys to write poetry as a means of
stimulating their grey matter. So there should
be greater pressure than ever on The Bulle-
tin’s Answers to Correspondents Column.
Since she lost her job as film censor, Mrs.
Glencross has thrown herself heart and
soul into the campaign in favor of no-
license, but some of the vehement lady’s
statements have been more embarrassing to
her own party than to the opposition. Recently
she announced that St. Kilda was “honey-
combed with sly-groggeries,” though she
didn’t disclose where she got the information.
If the bootlegger is. rampant at the seaside
suburb it can only be because the hotels
close at six, so the prospect if the bars were
shut up altogether is dismal indeed.
The Bulletin’s old Boverty Boint cam-
paigner Norman Campbell has just been
operated on for appendicitis, and is making
a good recovery. Campbellps on the “Herald”
staff, writes special articles and serves as
dramatic critic. In the latter capacity he
lias had the curious experience of seeing
for the first time from the front of the
house plays in which he has performed a
score of times.
Exactly a year after two youths were
killed through projecting their heads over
the lip of the Motordrome track, a cyclist
has died as a result of a racing accident on
Saturday week. The Motordrome has claimed
almost as many victims as the Roman Colis-
eum averaged in its day. Five riders have
gone west since 1925, and several have been
severely injured. But if the audiences which
pack the place on Saturday evenings were
asked whether they wanted the sport abol-
ished, there would be a thunderous No and
a large proportion of the voices would be
feminine.
A woman who occupies a flat overlooking
one of the Swanston-street intersections is a
firm believer in the automatic system of
traffic signals. She has made the discovery
that the interval between the showing and
the shutting off of the red, the green and
the amber lights three times is exactly that
required for boiling an egg just as her hus-
band likes it.
Here, per medium of a Lafayette pic-
ture, is Flor-
ence Herd, who
specialises in
the newer
physical cul-
ture. After
absorbing all
that could be
learned on the
subject in Mel-
bourne, she
went to Lon-
don and en-
larged her out-
look on the
staff of a
county council
school. Later
she attended
a summer
training school
at Naas, and
added to her
store of know-
ledge the
extras to be found in the Swedish branch of
the cult.
Gaunt’s, in Bourke-street, has been the
Mecca of perspiring humanity for the past
week or so. Such has been the luncheon-
hour crush of citizens anxious to know the
worst about the weather that two policemen
have had to keep the crowd moving, though
they can’t intrude on the arcade, which is
private property. Gaunt’s has been purvey-
ing the temperature since 1856, when the ori-
ginal Gaunt conceived the idea of putting up
a thermometer outside his jewellery shop.
He kept a reliable weather record for 30
years before there was any meteorological
bureau in Victoria. The Gaunt readings
have had doubts cast upon them because
they are invariably higher than those of the
Commonwealth Weather Bureau, but the
reason is simple. The official glass is set
in standardised conditions on a pleasant lawn
outside the city, whereas Gaunt’s gives the
temperature as experienced by the multitude
that moils and boils in offices. In any case,
when one has melted through a real dog day
in Melbourne one likes to be assured that it
really was hot, and that is why Gaunt’s
thermo, is so popular.
A fresh horror is foreshadowed for John
Citizen. It is a School of Almonry, to be
established at the Melbourne Hospital. The
flapper who previously inveigled the passer-by
into parting up sixpence for a button on the
annual begging days is to be taught more
efficient methods of blandishment, ‘so that
the tray may become a bob or even half a
dollar. No less an organisation than the
Institute of Almoners has given the school
its blessing, and Miss Mclntyre, who was
specially imported from the Cold Land to
jazz up the social service branch of the Hos-
pital Auxiliary, is to be retained to give
students the benefits of her vast experi-
ence. The school is to have a regular syl-
labus, and it may end with awarding B.A.’s
to qualified button-sellers.
This is Mrs. Reginald Middlecoat, who
recently returned from overseas. The first
two years of
her married
life were spent
in India, where
her husband,
a well-known
engineer, was
employed on
the electrifica-
tion of the
great Ind i a
Beni n su 1 ar
Railway. Mrs.
M i d d 1 e c oat
h as brought
back a collec-
tion of sketches
and brush-
work to remind
her of her so-
journ in those
parts. A Rus-
kin camera
caught the
likeness.
The news that Lady Stradbroke is seri-
ously ill, and that her relatives have been
summoned to her bedside in England, recalls
a farewell thanksgiving party the most popu-
lar Governor’s lady of her day gave to press-
men in Melbourne. The soup was getting
cold when one shy reporter, after losing his
way, arrived at the vice-regal fastness, and
in order to put him at his ease the Strad-
broke dame murmured something about the
extraordinary ignorance of Melbourne taxi-
drivers with regard to their city. The man
of ink enthusiastically agreed, though he
had come in a humble tram-car.
There has been a rush lately to acquire
a new gramophone record at Robertson and
Mullens’s. It is a disc by Pat Hanna, the
famous Digger entertainer. Hanna has
committed to music his amusing monologue
on “What Did You Do in the Great War,
Daddy?” It was mostly peeling potatoes,
according to the record.
A woman friend reports a spectacular
demonstration of the powers of Argus, the
Footscray telepathist or clairvoyant or what-
ever it is, now at Melbourne Tivoli. She
has a presentation watch with an inscription
on its back, but the lid has been stuck down
for 15 years—long enough for her to forget
the date on it. When asked, Argus duly
supplied a year away back in the ’nineties.
Consumed with curiosity, the owner hurried
off to a watchmaker after the performance,
and got him to prise the timepiece open.
She felt queer all over when she found the
figures were as given.
On Saturday at noon Eileen Sparkes and
Lionel Hooke quietly embarked at St.
Andrew’s, Brighton. The bridegroom’s sister
Marie attended the bride, clad in a well-cut
toilet of beige crepe Romaine. The bridegroom
went to the Antarctic with Mawson, served
in the Flying Force during the war and is
a specialist in wireless. After the ceremony
the newly-weds left for a motor tour of the
State. The home will be in Sydney.
Toorak’s fashionable vicar, the Rev. Dr.
Law, has made his second appearance at
the altar, Mrs. Rena Lillie being the
other party to the contract. Bishop Arm-
strong officiated. Alton Lillie lent his mother
an arm, and daughter Joan ’maided. After
the cei’emony Thomas Brentnall, an old
friend of the bride, gathered the wedding-
guests at Newham, liis South Yarra home.
The pair left next day for the Speck.
Mr. and Mrs. Y. Kimpton leave shortly
for England, where they are looking forward
to a family reunion. Audrey, their eldest
girl, has married and settled there; Mar-
jorie, who lately became Mrs. Aubrey Gibson,
has gone for a honeymoon tour to America,
but will be back in time to meet her parents.
The Toorak home will be unoccupied for at
least a year.
Victorian Anglicans will be without a
Head again shortly, our brand-new Arch-
bishop being booked for the Lambeth Con-
ference along with a flock of minor church
dignitaries. The new Arch, has been
extremely busy since his arrival. lie is an
ardent Imperialist and a pronounced I rolii-
bitionist.
When all else fails, Melbourne can always
work up a controversy on the question of
decent bathing costumes. One local council
has made the astounding discovery that
women no longer observe the neck-to-knee
convention. As a neck-to-knee costume
hasn’t been purchaseable in Victoria for at
least a decade the discovery is a bit belated.
However, the usual resolution was passed
instructing officers to see that the regula-
tion is strictly observed. Thus far none of
the other councils have fallen into line.
Mayor Robinson, of St. Kilda, has gone _so
far as to say that his body would put its
blind eye to the telescope where such in-
fractions were concerned. Another regu-
lation on the books of every council is
that bathers should walk in a beeline from
the water to the -dressing-shed, but South
Melbourne estimates that on its beaches
approximately 50,000 people break the law
on hot days and it isn’t worrying a scrap.
The fact is that since the doctors announced
that the sun is essential to good health the
old ecclesiastical taboos have lost their pres-
tige. The latest costumes are made with
almost as many portholes as an Orient
liner. It’s rather a wonder that some of
these shocked Bumbles don’t turn their
attention to theatre first-nighters. The other
evening this Letter sat at the Comedy behind
a woman who was trying to brown herselt
at the Firm’s electric light down to the
second-to-last joint of her vertebrae.
The Commonwealth Players is the latest
organisation started in Melbourne for the
absorption of distressed actors. It is the
inspiration of Leslie Laurier, well known
as a first-rate small-part actor with visiting
companies. Laurier’s scheme is co-operative,
and he has secured tenure of the transpon-
tine Playhouse on a percentage basis. The
r.cw collection of barnstormers has already
started rehearsing, and will launch its first
effort next month.
In the Leon Gordon new show, “The
Poppy God,” at the Comedy, the curtain rises
on a ship’s cabin, oscillating gently upon
the ocean wave. It is a neat little compart-
ment with white and blue cretonne furnish-
ings and correct nautical fixings. A Chinese
room, all red lacquer and gilded dragons and
highly embellished black furniture, is an-
other fine bit of stagecraft. Leon, who had
a fist in the framing of the play, introduces
liis pretty young wife in the spotlight - role
of the Chinese girl. In her pink silk trous-
ers and blue green coat of Oriental mode,
with straight black locks, Nancy Gordon
looks a sweet and innocent Suie Ming. Beat-
rice Day only appears in the prologue on
the briny, but she left _a delightful impres-
sion of reddish gold coiffure topping black
chiffon velvet that dipped to a fish train
behind, and show'ed glimpses of silvery white
satin at intervals. Dulcie Cherry, a nice gm
who goes slumming, "wears more attractive
apparel than is usually associated with a
mission miss.
Among the first-viewers of the opium-
drenched bellowdrama were the John Fis-
kens, Mrs. Stewart Ferguson, the Bateses
with their daughter, MJrs. Phil Kelynaek and
Mr. and Mrs. Deighton Nelson. During an
interval when the audience crackled the
paper about sweets. Alban Whitehead lifted
baritone notes in “Sylvia” and other lays,
and the audience stopped chewing chocolates
and lapping ice-creams long enough to give
the youthful singer an appreciative hand.
Florists must have profited by the first night,
judging from the presentations to the three
ladies of the cast.
Judging by “Follow Through,” the Firm’s
new musicomedy enterprise at the Royal,
the Talkies are not so much imitating the
stage as the stage is imitating the talkies.
When you listen to Mary Lawson and Molly
Fisher singing you have to pinch yourself,
or you begin to think you are looking at
colored photographs. Even the actions of
the ballet suggest a careful imitation ot
motion photography. The scene in the ladies
dressing-room at the golf club, however, is
different. Melbourne hasn’t had anything
quite as nude as this since the last show
of Norman Lindsay’s pictures, and the more
easily shocked of the critics have registered
emphatic protests. On mature reflection,
however, it isn’t much more revealing than
the beaches or Collins-street these days. ,
The unquenchable Allan W ilkie and his
staunch helpmate and leading lady Hunter-
Watts will shortly be back in Melbourne
with their Shakspearean repertoire. Inci-
dentally. the Americans know how to put
the Immortal Bard in his proper place. ( Says
a recent issue of the Hollywood Film
SDectator” • “When William Shakspeare
wrote ‘The Taming of the Shrew’ he no
doubt intended it to be a pleasant little
comedy which no one should take seriously.
However, he did not reckon with the tact
that everything he did was to become
immortal. His name made The Shrew big
enough material for Douglas Fairbanks and
Mary Bickford’s first co-starring vehicle.


•* • «
*>■
X* ~r-*
* *
/
>
v ’ S pal 11
'. t *#"€ ;t8? Jys&£ -I
. . flh
/ W'
'*;..» A •
* « $« »'
•.
■SB
«gw
UlUii ’JH* 4 !
W
:
*
.
*
,i w
£
>*
%
■
n
wm
V
■i
■
111111
. I
■i
■
V,
am
> ...
: JT
irr
■
V
■Hi
1
5 i
I
-fiMi
■
1
■
■
u
i
■Hi
,
■
* I
JPa
4&r.. aB
■
If 4 «gj>:-.¥
am
MilsliSi
. Hll H
mmm
m
H
„ IlitP #
"* . «
■ i
W
7
... ..
1 Kit .
HOSIERY OE INCOMPARABLE QUALITY
h
*&tr
4't fe" W
i ;p:;a :
J'( iA 4 )4t
,4/' -Vi\
vV / /"i •} i> K \ “Vv
to 'c\ »'
, 'j,. .yjfegfe jr\
j &1 ,H llSfi )
Vi »' sf W*
'll. >!!!. V, <1 J. •>' ,V
*l' MSSjj. *•!•:,niJjiMij!^
Aj
A / ji* i| iV" , s,
( i;i;"*l /..|| .! l'.,V >■' v
A 1 i:: : :l/


HE LIE/
NURSERY WARE
Childhood fancies
cups and saucers,
plates and mugs,designed for
the House of Shelley by Mabel
Lucie Attwell, appeal to the
quaint fancies of childhood, and
later become a pleasant memory.
The lively imagination of Miss
Attwell delights the little people,
and the mark of Shelley, syn-
onymous with careful, old-time
craftsmanship, promises the
toughness requisite to survive
reasonable outbursts of nursery
high spirits.
Ask to see the latest
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
- China
Nursery Ware
ly Lucie Attweu
& Hilda Cowham
Domestic Ware
Jelly Moulds
• E.ITISH MADE
CASE OP AMY DIFFICULTY IN OBTAINING
WHITE TO
T%W. HIATH 6 CO.LTD,
a32.CLAR.ENCE ST»
-d
f
Missing Friends.
IWJcMANUS. —Information is sought con-
cerning the whereabouts of EDWARD
McMANUS, a Cabinet-maker, who, if now
living, would be about 73 years of age. Born
in Onehunga, he was married in 1882, and
was last heard of about 30 years ago. He is
a brother of the late Nano McManus, of
Pyrmont, Sydney, and is a beneficiary under
her will. Will any person knowing his
whereabouts or able to give any information
to assist in tracing him communicate with
VICTOR S. RAVES,
Solicitor,
92b Pitt Street, Sydney.
For Sale.
Electric Generating Plant
and Batteries.
SUITABLE FOR A COUNTRY HOME.
CONSISTING of Westingliouse Kerosene
Engine, 171-h.p.; English Electric Gen-
erator, kw.-6, voltage 165; 60 glass Tudor
Batteries, capacity 45 ampere hours; with
all accessories, charging panel, etc.
For further information, apply to
A. J. KITCHEN,
Box 15908, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
Amusements,
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’s; Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tail
HER MAJESTY’S: THE NEW MOON.
CRITERION: JOURNEY’S END.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
*"* MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
FOLLOW THROUGH.
With GUS BLUETT, CECIL KELLAWAY.
MEW COMEDY THEATRE,
1 * MELBOURNE.
LEON GORDON in
THE POPPY GOD.
UOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
A * MELBOURNE.
See and Hear GLEN TRYON in
SKINNER STEPS OUT.
AIjSO
JOHN BARRYMORE in
ETERNAL LOVE.
(Sound Feature.)
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE .. . . 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Wok
FOP
CUT*
yIUUE*
SBMBSn
0l
BJtLECS
<OOEFE|[
*j*A*l«*'-
Quickly soothing
and splendidly heal-
ing, Zam-Buk is in-
dispensable in every
home. This famous
balm is as good for
heat rash and insect
bites as it is for
eczema, ulcers, etc
Zam-Buk stops
pain and irritation,
allays inflamma-
tion, and grows new
healthy skin. Al-
ways keep a box of
Zam-Buk handy.
Keep a 1/6
or 3/6 box of
ZAM - BUK
always handy.
Of all chemists.
Zam-Buk Medicinal SoapJ^
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 137 of 1930.
BETWEEN ANN BENNETT Petitioner
and HOWARD JOSEPH OWEN BEN-
NETT Respondent.
TO EDWARD JOSEPH OWEN BEN-
NETT late of Bondi, N.S.W.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Ann Bennett
has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a
divorce on the ground that you have without
just cause or excuse wilfully deserted her
and without any such cause or excuse left her
continuously so deserted during thi;ee years
and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance to
the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the twelfth
day of May 1930 and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding A copy of the
Petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned solicitor free of
charge.
DATED this thirteenth day of February
1930.
For the Registrar,
(Signed) C. K. BODY [l.s.],
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
Robert William Fraser, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, Williamson House, 51 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1573 of 1929.
BETWEEN GRACE ANN GEORGE
Petitioner and WILFRED CYRIL
GEORGE Respondent.
TO WILFRED CYRIL GEORGE late of
Brewarrina.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Grace Ann
George has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds ot
desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the twenty-
second day of April One thousand nine hun-
dred and thirty and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the said suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the Petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned solicitor
free of charge.
DATED this twenty-ninth day of Janu-
ary One thousand nine hundred and thirty.
For the Registrar,
[l.s. ] C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
H. L. Primrose, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, Builders’ Exchange Chambers, 1"
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
17 STATE of EDWARD NOLAN NOONAN,
111 late of Porangahau, in the Dominion of
New Zealand, Farmhand, Deceased.
The children of the late MARY ANN
TRACEY, a sister of the above-named de-
ceased, or any persons knowing of their
whereabouts, are requested to communicate
with the
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Waipukurau, New Zealand.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISDANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Sociel Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
R. M. King, Minister for Works, presided
over the annual meeting of Wynnum, Manly
and Lota branch of the C.W.A., and con-
gratulated that non-sectarian and non-politi*-
cal association on its good AA'ork throughout
the State. A good deal of building and
furnishing has been done this year. Mrs.
W. 11. Barnes is president and Mrs. H.
Mathams hon. sec.
Captain and Mrs. Billyard Leake, Kenya
Colony, East Africa, are staying with Colonel
and Mrs. N. A. H. Campbell at The Bunga-
low, Southport. Mrs. Cadell-Garrick and
daughter Cecily have gone for a trip to China.
Mrs. Iv. A. Boyd, who is off to the Cold
Country, was farewclled at Hollydene, Clay-
field. The Cecil Palmers leave for England
in March, son Arthur accompanying them.
Freda Sharp, Avho departs shortly, was fare-
welled at the C. V. Baileys. The Richard
Hardings are just back from Europe.
Frank Neil arrived by air from Sydney to
open at His Majesty’s in “Up in Mabel’s
Room.’’ It is understood that a rejuvenated
Nellie Bramley Avill reopen at the Royal this
month.
The Cecil Palmers had a verandah party
at Palma Rosa for Albion Park races.
Amongst the throng were Captain and Mrs.
Roskruge, the Duckett Whites, Mrs. Hal-
ford and daughter Norah, Mrs. G. Washing-
ton Power, Mrs. Glynn Connolly, Mrs. L.
C. Wilson and Mrs. George Addison,
St. James’s. Toowmomba, was decked with
palms and white lilies for the marriage of-
George Warren Smith and Elspeth Robinson.
The bride, in ivory satin, veil of silk net
and orange buds, was given away by her
father. Her bouquet was of frangipanni and
maidenhair. Page Freshney ’maided in apple
green.
Leslie Day married Nancy, daughter of
Oscar Meston, of Stanthorpe, and grand-
daughter of the late Archie Meston, in All
Saints’, Wiekliam-terrace. The bride was
in ivory mariette; her veil (lent by Mrs.
M. Withers, of Stanthorpe) Avas of tulle
lined with silver, and she carried pale pink
roses, orchids and maidenhair. Joyce Searl,
Enid Day and Elsie Murray ’maided in
violet mariette with mauve picture-hats and
bouquets of violet and mauve asters. Selwyn
saAv the feasting. The going-away gown was
of saxe with mushroom-pink coat and liab
en suite.
Captain James Herd took Winifred Ferry
for life partner at St. Agatha’s, Clayfield.
Tile bride Avas in ivory satin, and carried
white tiger-lilies and stephanotis. Miss E.
Roberts and Jean Orr ’maided in blue
taffetas. The reception wms at Lennons, and
the bride’s going-away frock was of nigger-
broAvn with hat to match.
Charles Dickens’s birthday Avas celebrated
by the Dickens Fellowship at a dinner at
the Canberra. Mrs. Agnew Jackson, in black
mariette, received the guests, the Rev. A.
G. Wheller assisting. There was a good
roll-up of diners.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Government House has probably seen its
last festivity under the O’Grady regime, for
Margaret goes home next month and her
father a little later. There were about 400
guests, the ballroom was comfortably filled
with dancers, the balcony Avas arranged as
a lounge, and the warmth of the night made
the garden a pleasant resort. Lady Stone-
haven wore black georgette embroidered
in a design of mauve and pink convolvuli,
with a long rope of pearls. Margaret
O’Grady Avas slim and graceful in butter-
cup georgette. Rear-Admiral and Mrs.
Evans attended, and there were naval
uniforms in plenty.
This is Mrs.
A. Banks-
Smith, wife of
the Speck’s
Crown Solici-
tor and a
very busy wo-
rn a n. For
years past she
has been the
local hon. sec.
of the National
Council of
Women, and
was elected a
delegate to the
recent Fed-
eral Confer-
ence at Perth.
She is a mem-
ber of the Wo-
men’s N o ii-
party League,
the Lyceum
Club and the
Victoria League and a keen sportswoman.
The annual ball of the Victoria League
went with a swing at the Continental on
Regatta Night. The G.-G. and his lady, the
O’Grady and Margaret, with Sir Dudley de
Chair, were received by the dep.-president.
Mrs. Stourton, the C.J., the Jones and Lewis
ladies and Mrs. Hay. Rear-Admiral and
Mrs. Evans were in the party, also Mayor
and Mayoress Soundy. Seven debs, made
their boAv : Barbara Baxter, Barbara Nairn
Butler. Mavis Blake, Mary Cummins, Jean-
ette Cox, Mcrla Lyons and Mavis Smith.
The sun shone for the Launceston racing
carnival and the little northern city looked
its best. On Derby Day the O’Gradys, with
Captain Stoyles in attendance, Avere received
and looked after by Chairman and Mrs.
Clemons and daughter Nancy. Margaret
O’Grady was in green; Mrs. Clemons
sported grey lace on georgette. The Stone-
havens were both present, the lady in printed
red and white chiffons with plain red hat.
She presented It. J. Affleck, the owner of
Emelita, with the Derby blue ribbon.
On Cup Day the G.-G. and his lady were
entertained, with the O’Gradys, by the com-
mittee. There was a large percentage of
mainland visitors, and Midland society was
well represented. The dressing was summery :
for once there was no ambiguity about the
weather.
At Hobart’s annual regetta (the 92nd)
Chief Justice Nicliolls, in a burst of patriotic
eloquence, declared that “on the finest
harbor in the world the finest fellows in the
world held the finest regatta in the world.’’
Anyway, it was a grand display, what with
the Australia and the Albatross handy, and
the seaplanes circling overhead and the huge
crowd on the Domain. The G.-G. and the
State Exes., with Lady Stonehaven, watched
the racing from the Marine Board's launch
Egeria.
Bmu'-Admiral and Mrs. Evans have taken
tfie Elliott Lewises’ house, Werndee, Augusta-
road, for the term of their stay in the Speck.
. Madge, popular little daughter of Mrs.
A. C. Parker, slipped off very quietly after
becoming* Mrs. George Hirst. Although the
ceremony itself . was private, farewell teas i
and showers,” including one given at Goa - I
eminent House by Margaret O’Gradv. kept
her intimate circle busy for weeks, and Mrs.
Parker had a garden party at Charlton, by
way of a farewell to her daughter, just
before the wedding day.
Nell Thynne and D. M. Latta were quietly
married at the former’s Launceston home,
the bride wearing a buttercup lace frock
and a variegated straw hat with brown
ribbon swathe. Sisters Bonnie and Molly
maided, one in lemon, the other in green
floral georgette.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
We must be getting inured to torrid
Aveatlicr; although the glass soared to 104
there was quite a good attendance at the
Amateur Turf Club meeting at Cheltenham
on Saturday. Chairman J. 11. Morish and
his wife dispensed hospitality at luncheon
and afternoon tea, Mrs. Morish wearing an
amber and light brown confection and a
small fawn Baku straw hat. The Hore-
Ruthvens being in the hills, also the Mayoral
Bonythons, the guests were nothing more
exalted than committeemen’s and members’
wives. Most of the ladies were in the
daintiest of floral chiffons, even the most in-
veterate devotees of tailor-mades blossoming
out m ninon.
The guests of Mrs. Jule Wendt were
grateful when the thermomenter dropped a
few degrees. It was just tea and chat, but
there Avas a drawing for numbers that re-
sulted in some charming gifts. The
hostess looked delightfully cool in a white
yellow and black figured chiffon Two of
the guests, Mrs. A. W. Jolly and Mrs. Eric
McMicliael, left the folloAA-ing day on a trip
to Colombo.
On Thursday Mrs. A. V. E. Richardson
gave a luncheon party and at-liome for Mrs.
Birt, a talented violinist avlio left Adelaide
many years ago to live in Perth. She has
been back on a visit, accompanied by daugh-
ter Joan and a small son. They returned by
the Karoola on Friday. The clever young
violinist Harry Hutchins, who recently won
a scholarship that will take him to London,
played inspiringly, and the hostess sang sev-
eral songs.
Although heat waves and dancing do not
go hand in hand, the S. Aus. Operatic
Society’s ball was Avell attended on Thursday
night, when the Palais Royal reopened for
• the occasion. The dance was to celebrate
the society’s recent success in “Florodora.”
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The Practical Psychology Club emerged
from its candlelight to give the hand
of welcome to Dr. Fennelly, a past
president of the British Association of P.P.,
Avho has lectured on the' mind and its com-
plexes in Europe, India, South Africa and
South America. The doctor was greeted in
the Assembly H’all, where there Aftere
speeches, musical offerings and a fragrant
bouquet for Mrs. Fennelly. “Sleep and
Dreams—Their Meaning and How to Inter-
pret Them” was the attractive title of his
first lecture.
We city-dwellers and even the majority of
out-back folk nowadays have little conception
of the hardships which the old pioneers had
to encounter. Among them an outstanding
figure is that of Mrs. Withnell, the “Mother
of the North-West.” At the age of 19 she
settled in the North, and her son Harding was
the first white child born in our Nor’-West.
She was doctor, nurse and tactful mediator to
black and white alike, and later on she had
a hand in the bringing up of every white
baby Avitliin a hundred miles or so. G. W.
Miles, M.L.C., has presented Mrs. WithneH’s
portrait to the C.W.A. rest home at Cottes-
loe, where the ceremony of its unveiling took
place recently. It is proposed to establish a
gallery of portraits of the old pioneers in the
seaside home.
Miss Jo Doherty and Joe Charles were
married very quietly this Aveek. The Avedding
raiment was beige georgette with a long flare
and insertions of beige lace. Millinery and
footAvear toned with the color scheme.
Just as quietly another nuptial knot Avas
tied in St. Philip’s, Cottesloe. Mrs. Berry
and Perth’s best-dressed man, Claude de Ber-
nales, Avere the contracting parties.
The Euripides picked up the LI. C. Sewells
and daughter Betty bound for a holiday jaunt
through Great Britain and the Continent. On
the same liner Dr. Wilson, Bishop of Bun-
bury, embarked for Cape Town. He intends
returning in April.
The re-appearance of Rice Gemmell, six
times State champion before he turned pro-
fessional two years ago, was a magnet that
drew a croAvd to the exhibition tennis matches
at Kitchener Park. In the singles Avith Ron
Ford, Gemmell showed that he is still capable
of beating the present State champion with
comparative ease. M. Carpenter, Queens-
land’s champion junior and a new resident
here, made his first appearance, and the just-
returned inter-State team was another
attraction.


df
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD,
J. R. KIRK, Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand).
Total Assets exceed . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:-
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Asnociation and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sue assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately*
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost eveiy contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manasrer.
smoothing his fur the right way when he was
exasperated by some slight from his neigh-
bors and generally making the best of
things.
But he did not find it easy to delegate
the authority that had come as natural to
him putting on his clothes of a morn-
mg. He was finishing his mail in the office
® ne afternoon when he became aware of
Boyd talking to a young man in moleskins
and muddy leggings, and a little later saw
the stranger drift off in the direction of
the yards. Something familiar about the
lithe figure and slouching walk riveted his
attention with a jerk, and he pushed back
his chair energetically as Boyd came up
the path.
What is it?” he asked. “Someone look-
ing for a job?”
“That’s so,” was the reply. “A fellow
called Mace. He was playing the Flash
Jack here when he went through a few
weeks ago, and now he’s done his money in.
Not the sort of man we want, from all I’ve
heard of him. I knocked.him back.”
■There was a flush under his eyes as if
he had just emerged from a verbal encoun-
ter, but McCurdie was held by the name.
“Oh, we’ll manage to find something for
him,” he said swiftly. “That’s Billy Mace
“'Money don’t stay long with me. I can’t keep it hobbled like I can a horse!”
—too good a man with horses to let slip.
Knocked about the country a few years ago
with a buckjumping show, and handled
horses for the military when the war came.
Some of the other stations will snap him
up if we don’t. I’ll go up to the yards
and have a word with him.”
He took his hat and strode off, hardly
noticing the sudden stiffening of Boyd’s
figure. Never let a good man slip through
your fingers: that had always been his
policy, and he had seen Mace at work
among horses. A born genius at handling
them, whether on the ground or in the
saddle, though a sulky brute like the rest
ot He*found Mace standing at the yards, a
little crestfallen, untying his sweat-streaked
c hestnut. There was a suggestion of the
swashbuckler in his red silk neckerchief, his
nickel-plated spurs, and the heavy, plaited
belt with its polished buckle that held up
his tight-fitting moleskins. Yet his air of
independence was not unpleasing, and the
boldness and audacity of his eyes would
have counted for virtue in a white man.
“Well, Billy,” began McCurdie bluffly,
“after some work, eh? I thought you were
sitting on a three-figure cheque when you
passed through before.”
“It soon went,” said Mace sourly. “I
dropped more than a bit at the Babbalora
races. Money don’t stay long with me. I
can’t keep it hobbled like I can a horse.”
“You fellows are all the same,” said
McCurdie. “Never mind! Come along
in the morning and I’ll hunt up a few
colts for you to break. You can go down
to the store and get what rations you
want.”
He had a comfortable sense of being
generous and securing a prize at the same
time. It had always been hard to get
horses broken, for none of the men on the
place had any enterprise in the matter, not
even Larry Byrne. Very different from the
old days when young fellows would toss
for the right of tackling a bad horse! Men
were more careful of their necks now, when
union-secretaries came buzzing around
them, telling them all wealth was created
by their labor, and nonsense like that.
“I’ve taken Billy Mace on,” he told Boyd
that evening. “You hadn’t anything against
him, had you?”
He was astonished to see a sudden resent-
ment flush Boyd’s face.
“What does it matter now if I had?” he
asked drilv. “You say you’ve taken him
on.”
McCurdie was acutely conscious of the
irony in his voice and his manner. The
seeds of conflict were already beginning to
sprout.
“That’s only provisional,” he said; “and,
anyway, he’ll only be here till he’s broken
a few horses. But if you’ve really got any-
thing against him”
“No, I can’t say I have,” Boyd replied.
“It was merely that I didn’t like the cut of
him. Anyway, it’s your affair.”
A detachment had come to his eyes, a
suggestion of withdrawal from any respon-
sibility in the running of the place.
“Yours, too,” said McCurdie quickly.
“Yours more than mine. I didn’t mean to
go over your head. Lord, no! It was just
that I couldn’t stand losing a good man.”
He began to enlarge on Mace’s virtues,
wondering why Boyd was bent on making
a mountain out of such a tiny anthill. It
couldn’t be that he really had anything
against the horse-breaker. Mace had been
practically brought up at the camp across
the creek, and he and Boyd had played
together as boys; he remembered distinctly
the two of them going off fishing together
on Saturday mornings. Was it some long-
dead rivalry of those days that had come
to life now?
But he did not worry about the matter
very much, for there were things in Boyd
he had never understood, and was content
to take lightly. Sudden impulses and
aversions he could not account for himself
* seemed to rise in him, just as they had
done in his mother. McCurdie remembered
her uncanny fear of the dogs from the
camp. She could not bear to see those
lean, hungry shapes prowling about the
place, and a sudden encounter with one
of them at the kitchen-door or near the
gate would send her into a condition bor-
dering on hysteria. A puzzling woman,
with something clairvoyant about her! Per-
ceptions always reaching out beyond the
range of her eyesight, and nerves that had
too thin a covering! Queer that there had
been a prolonged howling of dogs at the
camp on the night she died!
Now that the spring cleaning-up was
over, the last mickie branded, the older
cows taken out of the breeding-herds, and
the outlying fences put in repair, a period
of slackness had fallen on the place. The
heat-wave shimmering over the paddocks
at noon heralded a bad summer, and burn-
ing winds sweeping in from the very heart
of the continent brought a dryness to the
skin and a taste of dust to the mouth.
Early in the afternoons the men ambled
home from the back of the run to strip off
their clothes and plunge into the deep hole
below the crossing. With their towels
round their waists they lay in the shade
of a slanting gum, smoking and talking,
till it was time to dress and troop home
to tea. Black little storms, shot with
lightning, appeared suddenly on the edge of
the horizon, threatening violence, but faded
away like smoke without giving relief. The
nights were still and restless, and the sun
rose each morning on a world unrefreshed
by dew.
Some sort of ferment, McCurdie felt,
was going on in Ada. Lying about in her
kimono, she watched the travelling cattle
drift by on the other side of the lagoon
like figures in a dream, and talked about
the sea. It was two years since they had
been away, and the thought of crowded
beaches and long rollers breaking in foam
was sapping her good-humor.
“Why not come away for a holiday,
Roger?” she said. “There’s nothing to keep
you tied to the place now.”
“Can’t get away yet,” he replied stub-
bornly. “Want to cut the painter definitely
when I do go, and leave everything ship-
shape behind us. Don’t trouble about me,
though. You have your holiday.”
“Oh, no,” she told him, with a little
throaty laugh. “I’m getting too old for
Jimmy Woodsers, thanks. No one takes
me for a young widow now, and wants to
show me the view over the sea in the moon-
light. I’ve shot my bolt.”
McCurdie felt a little compunction, but
it did not last long. He alone was unin-
fluenced by the enervating breath of sum-
mer. It was as if a new lease of life had
been given him, as if the springs of vitality
in him had been replenished. He was up
before dawn to see the horses Billy Mace
was handling brought in to the yards, and
most of the day he spent riding about the
run with Bruno behind him, watching with
(Continued on next page.)


A New Set of
LARGE
PLUGS
is a wonderful stimulus
to your engine ......
Illustration shows Lodge SB (fin.
long) for Chevrolet, Dodge and New
Ford (Model A).
LODGE PLUGS, LTD
RUGBY, ENG.
In sealed
metal box
6/-
m
kAo
m.
m
Missing Friends.
IF PATRICK NEILL, son of the late
A James Neill, of Minimay, near Goroke,
in the State of Victoria, will communicate
with the undersigned he will hear of some-
thing to his advantage.
J. WELDON POWER & BENNETT,
Solicitors, Horsham, Victoria.
I/" INANE. —If MISS MARGARET LILV
■ KINANE, formerly of the Manning
River, will communicate with the under-
signed she will hear something to her advan-
tage. If any other person could supply us
with information in regard to the said Mar-
garet Lily Kinane we would be grateful.
L. O. MARTIN & SON,
Solicitors, Taree;
And 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
dsd
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak without Notes, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
THE PATRIOT
DIRECT MEDIUM Tg WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HTNCHOLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
i‘> **
&
Prepared
Ensure positive traction
for your car on muddy,
sandy roads . . .
Drive safely, without
skidding, on wet, slip-
pery pavements . . .
Carry always Weed
Tyre Chains, ready to
be put on when needed.
Look for the name
‘‘Weed” on every hook.
Order from your dealer.
AMERICAN CHAIN CO.
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
WEED
TYRE CHAINS
3-6 _ -
Motorists
Have you seen the “Keystone” Ratchet Sets?
They stand alone for accuracy, wear-
resistance, compactness and appearance.
Set No. 555, as illustrated, has 8 sockets,
made of case-hardened, specially-treated steel,
in the following sizes: 7-16, i, 9-16, g, 11-16,
f, | and 15-16 inch.
Also included is a screwdriver, a 7in. drop
forged steel ratchet handle and an Bin. hex.
handle, which may also be used as a long
adapter. Nickel-plated case.
These sets will be shortly selling at 10/6,
owing to increased manufacturing costs, but
for a limited period we are offering them at
8/6. Postage extra.
Packet weighs 31b.
£Js,PKersort|)
SYDNEY 51 Bathurst Street
MELBOURNE 582 Collins Street
ADELAIDE 116 Waymouth Street
111111
tew
'
■■■■■■■■
THE PLUM RAZOR.
NOW NEATLY CASED at same price!
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 ~
Real Ivory Handle 21/- >»
Satin-lined Double Case free with pair.
7-day Sets—7 Razors in Case.
Black, 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory, 140/-
Each Razor ready set for use and guaranteed kept in order for two year 3
free of charge.
Post Free to any address.
Other Specialties:
PLUM Strops 10/6, 12/6, 15/6 each
Strop Dressing 1/3 per tube
Shaving Cream, Giant Size .... 2/- per tube
Shaving tablet, round 6d. each
Witch Hazel— after-shave Liquid
Cream ,0 2,
Oil of Roses Hairdressing 1/3 Dottle
Crystallised Brilliantine J ar
Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
an eagle eye for drying dams or loose wires
in the fences. The silver-grey leaves of
mulga, shimmering like metal, were not
more impervious to the sun than he was;
he was part of these brown ridges and
cracked plains, that gave up their surface
moisture but kept flowing rivers of life
underground.
“Hot?” he kept repeating when he found
anyone camping in the shade. “Aou don’t
call this hot! When I was up on the Flin-
ders in the ’seventies”
Such summers there had been once! And
such toughness in the fibre of the men who
had battled through them! Well, the fittest
had survived to leave their mark on the
country, and as for the other poor devils
it was just as well they had been weeded
out in the beginning!
Sitting alone in the office of an evening,
when Ada was playing the gramophone and
■Boyd practising billiard-shots or yarning
over at the men’s quarters, McCurdie
turned his political dream over in his mind
like a pup playing with an old shoe. The
lawyers and produce merchants of his party
had listened with polite boredom to his
ideas of developing the country, but he
felt they were jealous of anyone with more
will and imagination than themselves. And
his day would come! Taking down the
map of the country from the wall, he pored
over it with the intensity of a man for
whom the names of towns, mountains, rivers
conjured up definite pictures. He had
traced in red ink the routes of the light
railways he would advocate, linking up
those already built, and ensuring that
cattle and sheep should be moved easily
in time of drought: strategic railways, de-
signed to prevent the brutal waste of life
that had exasperated him since he was a
boy! Then there was the damming of
rivers and the conservation of natural fod-
der for the lean years. He saw the country
as a single unit, a place to be run as simply
and efficiently as he ran Abernethy. All
sorts of ideas, for economy were simmering
in his head. Stop the flow of borrowed
money, and you would soon do away with
the useless luxuries that came in its train.
Motor-cars and millinery! He had a vision
of shiploads of rubbish coming into the
country, and people being softened by the
squandering of a wealth they had not
earned.
But to give effect to his ideas it was
necessary to win back his lost popularity.
And that had already been done in part;
people were coming round to him. The
slight stir that had been caused by Boyd’s
return had had results of which he had
not dreamed.
“Perhaps I’ve been a bit too downright
these last few years,” he reflected one day
as he rode over the old racecourse. “Rubbed
people the wrong way, and got their backs
up. What we want is a little celebration
that will put Abernethy on the map again—
races, dances, plenty of whisky and good
humor flowing.”
The track was on a little plain just below
the crossing, but so overgrown had it be-
come with saplings and young suckers that
the markings were hardly visible. How
long ago was it since they had had a meet-
ing, he wondered, as he ambled over the
uneven ground, ferreting out the starting-
place and saddling yards? Somewhere about
seven years, he decided, just before his
defeat at the polls. And the affair had
broken up in an atmosphere of unpleasant-
ness, because he had accused Quinlan of
corn-feeding his horses and had tried to
get him disqualified. There was no doubt
that his accusations were true —none what-
ever! The fellow had been seen taking
corn out in his buggy to where the horses
were paddocked, and they had come to the
place in such nick that they wouldn’t blow
out a candle after a seven-furlong gallop!
But perhaps some of the things he had
said in the heat of the moment had been
over the edge, and anyhow Quinlan had
gone from Barradene—killed over in France
a few weeks before the Armistice.
“What’s that brute like?” he asked, com-
ing up to where Boyd was shoeing Barbara
Day’s black colt at the smithy. “Gallop at
all?”
“More than a little,” was the reply. “I’ve
tried him out against a mare of Jeff’s. All
that’s wrong with him is bad feet and a
cranky temper.”
McCurdie looked at the deep withers
and glossy barrel of the horse that was
dancing about nervously as if in appre-
hension of some evil in the glowing metal.
A hard beggar to shoe! There was a chal-
lenge in the flashing eyes, though, that sent
a thrill through him, and he felt himself
tingle with the pride of life as he approached
the horse and caressed the velvet muzzle
with his hand. So much vitality over and
above what was needed for the day’s work.
“A pity horses like this shouldn’t- get a
chance to show what’s in them,” he said.
“We’ve got a few, too, that were made for
something better than dodging after cattle
in the timber. I had to drop racing when
the crash came, but if only we had a little
picnic club of our own.”
His ideas expanded even while he talked.
There was that tide in the affairs of men
that had to be taken at the flood. He saw
Abernethy the centre of the district again,
a place renowned for its hospitality and
the large way it did things, and himself a
genial, popular figure, even in the eyes of
the shearers and floating workers around.
A leader of his party and of the country?
W T ell, why not? He was still on the right
side of seventy, and perhaps the best part
of bis life lay ahead of him.
CHAPTER X.
Enter Josxe Duncan.
Wandering down the creek with his shot-
gun, Boyd saw a girl sitting on the opposite
bank, a wet towel on her knees and her
black hair hanging in streaks over her face.
It was Josie Duncan. He had hardly been
aware of her since the first morning after
his return, for though he had seen her often
enough, helping in the kitchen or bringing
in the meals, there had been an unobtru-
siveness about her that made her fade
easily into the background against which
she moved. But here, sitting on the bank
of the creek staring at a kingfisher on a
black root, she suddenly became alive and
individual. As arresting to his imagination
as if she had just emerged from the shadows
into open sunlight.
It was Sunday afternoon, and since the
mails had come a lethargy had fallen on
the place. In his canvas chair on the ver-
andah McCurdie sat drowsing, the paper
over his knees and a half-smoked cigar be-
tween the fingers that drooped to the floor.
The thin stream of consciousness in him
kept his big body from quite relaxing and
his mouth from falling open, but the
wrinkles showed more plainly on his fore-
head and the pouches of flesh under his
eyes. In the bedroom inside, with the
blinds down to shut out the glare, Ada had
also surrendered to sleep, lying sprawled
out with a novel face downward beside her.
The same air of emptiness hung about the
men’s quarters, where Larry Byrne was sit-
ting on his bunk in his socks turning over
the pictures in a weekly paper, and .Teff
was poring over his map. On the mat in
front of the office Bruno lay with his neck
thrust out, rousing himself occasionally to
snap at flies.
Boyd, in whom the desultory atmosphere
of the afternoon had stirred a vague un-
rest, looked at the girl across the water.
She did not seem to be aware of him. Her
body was still as a rapt bird’s, and it was
only when he crossed the creek and
appeared on the bank above her that she
sprang up, clutching her shoes. Under the
clear olive of her skin the blood spread in-
distinctly, and she gave a jerky laugh, look-
ing at him with bright, uncertain eyes.
“My, you gave me a scare! 'I
thought”
“What?” he said easily. “That I was some
wild animal?”
“No,” she parried with a gleam of mis-
chief, “I wouldn’t have been scared of any-
thing but a man I came here for a swim
because everyone seemed asleep.”
“They are,” he assured her. “Everyone
but me.”
She sat down again and began to pull on
her stockings, slightly embarrassed by his
presence but eager for him to stay. A
strand of wet hair falling down the back
of her neck made her give a little shiver.
“The water’s colder than you think,” she
said. “That hole’s near ten feet deep and
only warm on top. You didn’t come for
a swim, did you?”
“No,” he told her. “I was going down
the creek after black duck. Just something
to fill in time. You haven’t seen any
about?”
“Not around here,” she said. “Jim don’t
make it happy for them anywhere within
a mile of the place. He can get them with
his Winchester as easy as most people with
a gun.”
Dropping his gun beside him he sat down
on the grass, wondering why he had noticed
the girl so little in the last few months.
The fact that she was Duncan’s daughter,
and that her time was taken up in small
tasks about the place, seemed to have
obscured her interests as a human being.
The kitchen where she spent most of her
days was unexplored territory to him. Some-
times he caught a glimpse of its interior,
with Miss Carmody carrying things over
from the oven or the Duncan family sit-
ting down to their midday meal, but he
always felt that the place was hedged with
privacy. Of its life and talk he knew no-
thing.
Yet here was Josie looking at him with
bright, animated eyes as if she had been
very much alive to his presence ever since
he returned, and knew all about his move-
ments. His decision to stay on at Aber-
nethy, his frequent visits over to Niva
Downs, his trouble with the black colt!
He had a sense that those dark eyes, so
deliberately opaque when she came in to
wait at meals, had been fixed on him atten-
tively for months. For awhile it gave him
an uneasy feeling. There was a latent
humor.in the girl, and he guessed that her
tongue could be mischievously pointed
when she talked to Miss Carmody or the
men; but even while he thought this he
became conscious of a ceidain childlike sim-
plicity in her rounded face, and in the way
she was rattling on about Jim and the man
Ella had married.
He lay with his head resting on his elbow
and watched her—the small, irregular fea-
tures, the slack mouth and the full throat
that her unbuttoned frock left bare. It
was only the dancing spirit of life in her
that gave her a hint of beauty, but that
was having free play now r . Gradually she
became real to him, as real as when they
had played tig at the bottom of the garden.
“She’s as much a kid as she was then,”
he was thinking. “Full of everything that’s
happening around her at the moment!”
Yet it was novel and stimulating to get
a view of the place through her eyes. She
had never left it except for the two years
she had been away at Karoola, a rough
(Continued on page 58.)


ore Sickness!
Startling Benefits to both Men and Women
when Poisons Driven Out this Harmless Way
Remarkable Relief in even Severe Cases of Dizziness,
Tired “Worn” Feeling, Backache, Rheumatism, Joint
and Limb Pains, Bladder Weakness, Faulty Elimination,
Colon Disorders, Blurred Sight, Headaches, Etc.
ALWAYS UNFIT,
£
i
f^
o*2
0*
\\V\
s*
®0
3&
2(f,
A
9b
nN2
v
\\
£
1
>
A/^ 1
S>
4
£
4*
i^grv
WK
iit>
40*
5^
NOW HAS BRIGHT EYES,CLEAR
COMPLEXION, NO HEADACHES.
Your blood decides your health and strength, and will probably decide
how long you’ll live. Blood feeds your brain, nerves, muscles —even your
teeth, hair and nails! Blood “doped” with uric-acid poisons means the
torture of backache, head pains, body pains, restless nights and sickness. In
the end it may mean severe kidney or bladder disease —even heart trouble.
THESE ARE FACTS. Find the remedy. Read on, ACT, and so safeguard
your vital health.
The One REAL Remedy
The one reliable, effective remedy is Harrison’s Pills, made from a famous prescription, bearing Dr.
Harrison’s signature on every genuine package. Harrison’s Pills are positively the only effective
specialised uric-acid remedy definitely guaranteed NOT to discolor the urine and NOT to harm the
heart.
n 1 AA will be paid to anyone proving this is not a safe
A, Ivv an( j effective remedy, bearing a genuine London
Doctor’s signature.
There is nothing to equal Harrison’s Pills for those dizzy, nervy spells that make life a burden to many
women, and for the special ills that make men old as much as 20 years before their time.
One user says: “Since taking Harrison s Pills I have felt years younger .”
Another: “/ Would have tried Harrisons Pills long ago but had been disappointed with so many other
things. My sister gave me some to try three Weeks ago, and I must say the pills are Wonderful. I am
now quite free from rheumatic pains which have bothered me for years."
No Benefit —No Cost!
You risk nothing by trying Harrison’s Pills. Marked benefit is definitely guaranteed with the very
first bottle: if you fail to get such benefit, the price paid will be refunded by the Amalgamated
Laboratories, Sydney. If you want to get better —to be rid of ageing aches and pains—if you want to
get back the elastic step of youth, brightness and freedom from headaches, back pains, dizzy spells
—if you wish to get rid of rheumatism, constipation, blood, kidney, bladder and urinary disorders —get
a package of Harrison’s Pills to-day. Any chemist or storekeeper can supply you. Three sizes: 18
pills, 2/-; 32 pills, 3/-; 68 pills, 3/-. Don't delay—live as long and as comfortably as you easily
can! No matter if other things have disappointed you—Harrison’s Pills will put you right, quickly,
surely, safely. No more sickness when you banish the uric-acid poisons this prompt and harmless way.
HARRISON’S PILLS
REMOVE THE CAUSE


FERRODOR
*
n
1
Ul
i
m
m
a
rm
W:
inrmlnmmm
h~i
Ojuj> -j
I
a
%
m
m
1
r«
lilr
w
4
MSe
ANTI-CORROSIVE
PAINT
Fill in this coupon and post to us for Color Card and
full particulars of FERRODOR PAINT.
WILLIAM ADAMS AND CO., LTD.,
G.P.O. Box Z99SVV, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,-—Please send me, Without obligation on my part, a Color Card and
Full Particulars of Ferrodor Paint.
Name
A ddress
Bulletin, 1C /2/’ 3 0.
Youlnsure Your Home Against Fire
—Why Not Insure It Against the Weather?
RUST AND CORROSION attack
all surfaces exposed to the weather
that have not been protected. Unless
prevented they will cause decay and
ruin! To insure your home against
these destroyers you must keep it
properly PAINTED, Not with
any paint, but with FERRODOR
Anti-Corrosive PAINT.
H The tough film of FERRODOR PAINT
successfully resists heat and cold; sun and rain
and salt air cannot penetrate it. Even sulphuric
“FERRODOR” PAINT.
acid cannot harm it in any way!
It will not crack, blister or chalk
off. It has great covering capacity,
and one painting will keep fresh
for many years. There are cases on
record of one painting lasting 22 to
25 years. FERRODOR Anti-
Corrosive PAINT is packed in
paste form for greater economy —you
only mix what you need —and has a range
of 20 colors. Full particulars and color card
sent on receipt of the coupon above.
aoms e coMPAny
0.0 M 0 TED—/
SYDNEY 175 Clarence Street
MELBOURNE 521 Collins Street
PERTH . . 432 Murray Street
ADELAIDE . . . 157 Waymouth Street
BRISBANE
93 Albert Street


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Ttooin Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF;
Write for Descriptive Folder.
▲
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan Esa s
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm, A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne Sydney and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking bus’iness.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwuila Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
[Where (hall I xtay
C 5
At the
GROSVENOR
Because it’s near-
est to the Railway
Station, all trans-
port facilities, and
theatres. It offers
300 fireproof rooms,
100 bathrooms, the
best of food, tbe
best of service.
Tariff:
From
£3/10/-
weekly
S| zJldelaides Finest Ibrfice/u'ai Jiotel
|bpp. Railway Srn.. North Terrace. ADELAIDE
The Curse of the Ranshaws.
N. A. M. MARKEY
STARTS THE YEAR WITH A FINE MYSTERY YARN.
MK. HENDON would go. No amount
of argument could stay him.
“it. t like it,” Bob grumbled.
bmk , u y c « lla Pse before I get him
back, and what am I to do then? Anyway
I am not going with him alone.”
to nLmnf p tlie family would consent
who f • him » 80 he fe]l b ack upon me,
Sl,est - co " ld d ™“‘-
We Started. The Old Man, as we affec-
iionately call Mr. Hendon, propped up with
aiK l. securely wedged between
Bob and me, was in great form. For once
T 2 ycar.s he had kicked over the traces.
.docile invalid, he had rebelled and
imposed Ins will upon the family. I really
believe the achievement made him' feel twenty
years younger.
“wl* * s au adventure,” he whispered to me.
When you have lived to ninety-seven, as
Lbave; when for years your life has been
Grandfather, you must do this’.... ‘Grand-
father you must not do that’ —why, this will
seem to you the most glorious escapade!”
“iv-ii 1 a T'H 1 ' be spoke of the Ransliaw.s.
Hill you believe it,” he said, “I met the
first Ranshaw on the third of November,
eighteen hfty-one? There is memory for
y ° a V He as , ol( * T - V. Ranshaw, Barbara’s
gieat-grandfather, usually called ‘T.V.’ or
Lucky Ranshaw.’ On the third of Novem-
ber of that year I left Melbourne with some
pals for the Mount Alexander goldfields. On
the way we fell in with old ‘T.V.’ Ilis wag-
gon we found bogged, and lent him our pack-
fioises to get it out, continuing our journey
together He became rather a celebrity on
the fields, for he was certainly the chosen
child of Dame Fortune. Hi.s luck was phcno-
menal. \\ lierever he worked his claim proved
to be the richest in the vicinity. I have
known superstitious men follow whither he
went and locate near by. When he had col-
lected a sizeable amount lie would depart for
Melbourne, and the fields would not see him
again for some weeks; then lie would return
broke, to grouch morosely of the card-sharps
that infested the city. He was an inveterate
gambler, though I only saw him playing on
the fields occasionally, for he was a bad
loser and possessed a caustic tongue, so that
the. players avoided including him among
their number as much as possible. When
he sat down to a game he was a different
man; all his sullenness would vanish, hi.s
eyes would light, a hectic flush would mount
to his cheeks, and his hands, like claws,
would gather in the cards as a hawk gathers
a rabbit. On the rare occasions when he
won he would chuckle and crow till hisvoppo-
nents’ nerves were on edge. He was, how-
ever, an astonishingly bad player, and nearly
always finished a loser. At such times he
would whine till the game ended, when no
insult was too fou] to hurl at his oppo-
nents. His was a queer, warped nature,
governed by a complete distrust of all those
about him. He even regarded the escort and
the banks as organisations to defraud the
public, and carried the gold he collected
about with him.”
“But surely,” I .said, “the quantity would
soon become too heavy?”
• "Hi’ kut you forget his vice. It beggared
him. Once I remember him saying to me : Twill
always be a poor man, for I am a gambler.
I cannot win because they are all cheats
in this country. Neither can I stop play-
ing—it is in the blood. The lure of cards
has been handed down from generation to
generation. Always it has been too strong
for us. It is all-devouring, this curse of
the Ranshaws.’
“The wild days of the gold rushes ended,
and Ranshaw turned to the land, as did so
many ex-diggers. It cost money to buy Ran-
shaw Park and money to build the home-
stead. Often in later years he spoke of the
hell he went through while he saved the
amount necessary.
“I saw him fairly often in those days, for
he would ride through my property on his
way to Fanliill. His luck still held, and
the land he had chosen almost at random
proved exceptionally fertile. His stock would
bring the highest prices at the Fanliill sales,
and, pocketing his gains, he would, as of
yore, gravitate to the city, returning with
the old whine and empty pockets. There is
one thing I must say in his favor—he did
not let his vice cause his family privations.
There was always sufficient money placed in
the bank in his wife’s name to assure the
payment of the housekeeping bills. While
he lived they never wanted, though they
were deprived of comforts and advantages
that should have been theirs. When he
died he left nothing but Ranshaw Park. All
the thousands that must have come out of
the property had been swallowed up in the
gambling dens of the city. Because his
sons had inherited the vice he tied his land
up, and left them only the income, and the
income only to the next generation. The
freehold was left to his great-grandchildren.
1 here proved to be only one—Barbara.”
' He was shrewd !” Bob interposed. “There
would be precious little left for the girl if
her father and grandfather had been able
to turn their broad acres into cash.”
‘‘There would have been nothing left,” the
Old Man corrected with conviction, “for the
boys were even worse gamblers. Then was
the time when real suffering was felt at
Ransliaw Park, when the womenfolk were
often in need of the bare necessities of life
and the grand estate old ‘T.Y.’ had labored
to build became disgracefully neglected. The
I ark sheep no longer brought top price at
the Panhill .sales; careless breeding soon
lessened their value considerably. The money
that should have gone to keeping up the
breed, to repairing the buildings and meet-
ing the hundred and one other expenses
necessary to hold such a property in good
order found its way to the racecourse.
Ah, well, they are all dead now; and for
tin* past four years, under Barbara’s prac-
tical care, Ransliaw Park has come back
into its own. And now Barbara is going!
It doesn’t seem right that a stranger should
own these broad acres. Ah, there is the'
house now!”
Wakened to interest by the Old Man’s
chatter, I studied Barbara Ransliaw curi-
ously. She was restless and unhappy, I
could see that. Her eyes, roving incessantly,
seemed to wander from object to object in
tom] and tragic farewell.
We chattered idly for a while ; then sud-
denly the Old Man came down to concrete
with :
“What is all this nonsense about your
leaving us? Selling Ransliaw 7 Park? Break-
ing off your engagement? No one seems to
know what is at the back of it all, so I
came over here to find out for myself. I’m
your oldest friend, Barbara, and I warn
you you won’t put me off wfith the evasions
you have so successfully used with everyone
else. What has Rodney done?”
“Rodney has done nothing.”
“Then why have your feelings changed to-
wards him?”
“My feelings towards him have not
changed.”
“You still love him?”
“I still love him.”
“Then,” Bob queried, “why in the world
won’t you marry him?”
“My answer to the last question answers
that.”
“You talk in riddles!” Bob started im-
patiently ; but the Old Man imperiously
waved him to silence. Turning to the girl he
demanded, “Why don’t you like Ranshaw
Park ?”
At that Barbara’s endurance seemed to
snap; the floodgates were open and in the
torrent of words that flowed from her was
laid bare the very soul of this girl.
“But I do!” she cried. “I love it —every
inch of it! This house! This room! Oli,
you don’t understand! You wouldn’t tor-
ture me as you do if you understood ! Here
is the only home I have ever known. All
the incidents of my life, joyful and sorrow-
ful, tragic and have hallowed this
place with their memories. The furniture—
the agent said it was of little value, yet to
me its worth is uncountable. That chair
—he called it junk; but I see it cradling in
its arms a little, sad-eyed old lady who told
me fairy tales when I was very young. Some-
times,” she whispered as if she spoke to
herself and referred to some train of thought
we did not share —“sometimes I came in
unbeknown to her, and she was crying softly,
heartbrokenly. Poor little grandmother!”
She recalled herself with a start, and
turned again to us. “But there was an
earlier occupant of the chair. I came into
the world too late to know him, but my
father so often spoke of my gi’eat-grand-
fatlier, so vividly painted the picture of the
gaunt old man that it seems almost impos-
sible that my vision comes from a thing even
loss tangible than memory. I see him there
with his hard old eyes and his hooked nose.
I see his hands, like claws, moving to empha-
sise his words, words flung out like the crack
of a stockwhip coming from the acid of an
embittered soul and searing the listener like
a flame. My father was terrified of him, but
I have only pity. His was a harder lot than
that of his sons or his grandson. He out-
lived the lust of the curse and came to the
time when he could fully realise the com-
pleteness of its devastation.” She turned
to the Old Man. “You knew him well. No
doubt you heard his pitiful cry of a ball
set rolling that grew and grew til] it crushed
him under. It rolled on, it crushed my
grandfather, then my father, and now —it
is crushing me!”
“So that is the answer!” the Old Man
observed.
“That is the answer, and you who have
seen three generations go under will under-
stand.”
“The curse of the Ransliaws!” he whis-
pered. “But, Barbara, you must fight it!
You must be strong!”
She laughed bitterly, and with a gesture
of hopelessness observed, “You cannot fight
fate!”
The utter finality of those words struck
me as a blow. I seemed to see those poor
departed Ransliaws going down and down
without even the heart to struggle. “You
cannot fight fate.” Adopting such an atti-
tude, what hope had they? What hope
had Barbara?
The Old Man suddenly dropped the tone
of prosecuting attorney. ' He had got what
he wanted. Leaning forward he spoke
softly and kindly. “Barbara,” he said, and
there was a cooing note in his voice, “tell
me about it. Remember your great-grand-
father was my friend, so was your grand-
father and your father. Little girl, I am
very fond of you. When one has been brood-
ing over anything it is wonderful how just
forming the thoughts into words will help
one. lou are afraid the curse will reach
you ?”
“It has reached me! Some weeks ago I
went to Melbourne to buy my trousseau!
Friends of mine invited me to join their
party at the races. I didn’t want to. I
was afraid. I have always been afraid!
The curse has been hanging over me like a
knife from the moment I w T as old enough
to understand. Yet I went. I swore I
wouldn’t put any money on. I didn’t on the
first race. Then the Ranshaw blood was
too strong for me. The horse won, but I
didn’t collect my winnings. I fled! Came
back to the city by train, and the wheels,
as they spun round, seemed -to cry out •
‘The curse of the Ranshaws has reached
you!’ ”
“But, Barbara, hundreds of people bet
without being what one would call gam-
blers,” Bob urged. “A flutter now and
again is harmless.”
Barbara shook her head. “It masters us.
It has hurt too many already. It won’t hurt
any more. Oh, you don’t understand! You
haven’t seen a broken-hearted old lady crying
o.uietly by _ the fire, her faded, grief-laden
eyes watching her son go down the ruinous
path she ha-s seen her husband, her brotlier-
in-law and her father-in-law tread before
him. You don’t know the shame of realising
that your mother is reduced to petty pilfer-
ing from her own dairy and hen-houses to
provide the bare necessities of life. Oh, the
shame, the sordidness of it, when there
should have been full and plenty! My
mother actually died of under-nourisliment.
There was seldom enough food in the house,
and she denied herself that 1 might have
a chance to grow up strong. Do you think
I am going to subject Rodney to the heart-
break I have seen those two dear women
suffer? That is my answer. That is why
I broke off my engagement. That is why I
am selling- Ranshaw Park. The Ranshaw
blood is tainted, it must die out. You talk
of fighting, Bob. I’ll fight, though, God
knows, it will be a losing one. I —it will
be easier to make a stand if I am away from
the old associations. That is why I am
selling everything—that is, everything except
the bronze Egyptian jar, and I’d sell that,
too, if I dared.” She looked at her watch.
“Well, I must get ready. I have an appoint-
ment with the agent. I have yet to sign the
final papers. Will you drive me into Fan-
hill, Bob? All my heavy luggage has gone;
I have only my dressing-case and the jar to
take with me.”
He assented readily, and sprang up with,
“I’ll go and got the jar now and put it in the
car.”
“Not on your life!” the Old Man cried.
“You leave that damned thing alone, my
boy!”
“But, Grandfather, it is too heavy for
Barbara to carry,” Bob protested. “Surely
you don’t believe that silly bunk about it?”
“Well, / do,” Barbara cut in, and, turning
to me, she explained. “I am the only per-
son who can touch that jar with safety.
Maybe it is all ‘bunk,’ as Bob says, but I
am not running any risks of it doing my
friends an injury. I’ll carry it out myself
when I have put my hat on. Will you
excuse me for about twenty minutes? I
have still a few things to do.”
When we were alone, Bob began to laugh.
“Well, I didn’t credit you with being super-
stitious, Grandfather!” he teased.
“I’m not superstitious, as a rule, my boy.
But I wouldn’t touch that jar for its weight
in gold, nor would I let anyone else do
so. Some damned funny things have hap-
pened to those who have monkeyed with it
in the past.”
“But, Grandfather”
“Seeing is believing, my lad, and I’ve
seen.”
I leaned forward eagerly. “I don’t under-
stand,” I said. “What things have hap-
pened?”
“It’s a long tale, and goes back as far
as the gold-rush days,” the Old Man ex-
plained. “Like so many gamblers, Ranshaw
was superstitious. He had in his possession
a jar which he said was an heirloom—
genuine Egyptian of I forget what dynasty.
When it came into the family is not known.
In most of the old records it was mentioned,
and, Ransha w said, they held documents that
went back as far as Queen Elizabeth’s time.
It had the reputation of being the luck-
bringer of the family. To profit by its
power the head of the family must always
have it in his home. When placed in posi-
tion, it must not be touched by anyone, not
even the head of the family himself, except
in case of change of residence. Any liber-
ties taken with it have always been swiftly
followed by tragedy.
“It caused great amusement on the fields,
for it seemed such a queer thing to cart
about with one in those hectic days. The
diggers would stroll past; Ranshaw’s tent,
just to peep in and laugh at it. One day,
during an argument as to whether it was
genuine or not, a lad went into the tent and
brought it out. Later, when Ranshaw re-
turned, he noticed that the jar liad been
moved, and questioned us. To our astonish-
ment lie became beside himself with anxiety
and insisted on going at once to the digger’s
claim, explaining on the way the sinister
influence the jar was reputed to have. I
remember expressing a feeling of amuse-
ment as I listened to the fantastic tale he
told. But my scepticism gave place to
concern when, on rounding a bend, we found
tragedy awaiting us. The sides of our
friend’s shaft had caved in and he was
buried beneath. Wheu we got him out he
was dead.”
“Coincidence!” was Bob’s summing up.
“The Old Man shrugged. “Maybe. But
what of little Jinnie, Ranshaw’s grand-
daughter? She only moved the jar a fraction
of an inch. I was there that day, and
helped them get her poor little body out of
the dam. Again, there were tell-tale finger-
marks in the dust on the niche and on the
jar the day David was killed. And the last
tkne Ranshaw moved it himself. They
heard a crash and found he had fallen from
the chair on which he had mounted to reach
the niche, built specially high up on the
south wall of the hall to hold the jar. He
was very old, though not as old as I am. but
some folk wear better than others, and the
shock was too much for him ; he was dying.
By the way, his last words were ‘The ball
has crushed me!’ Well, as Bob says, it
may be coincidence, but I maintain the
(Continued on page 57.)
Lobelia
Have I no word for you,
JVo sony of gentle praise,
Dear little flower of blue,
Whose beauty soothed my melan-
choly days?
Weary of pain, forlorn,
With aching, listless eyes
I lay and yearned for morn
In muffled darkness with unthwarted
sighs.
At last the golden light,
The cool, clear, bracing air!
And, 10, in clusters bright
Your tranquil blue stars thrilled me
unaware !
N.S.W.
All the long, languorous day
Your beauty loved to sing
Of forests far away,
Of warbling brooks and wild birds
on the wing.
And welling-—but not oft —
From the soul's deepest deep,
Holy and pure and soft
Flowed melody that stirred the
plumes of Sleep.
Yea, Sleep, the angel mild,
Withdrew me to his bower,
By melody beguiled
That welled from where Our Love
is, little flowei\
ARTHUR ALBERT BAYLDON.


Banking, Public Companies, etc,
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares .. .. • . 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS
Zealand, Fiji, ’Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS dll
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club und Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/-per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Biutish Austbalian
and New Zealandeb, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Albtrattai*
and New Zealandeb Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
Loudon, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
%
Ml
fsd
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
3C Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. j. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
TEbe
New Zealand's
National Morning Daily.
Published In Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion" is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE .. 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Shipping, etc.
Sail the South Seas
for CANADA
... UNITED STATES
...EUROPE
IVT O amount of planning can
' devise a more perfect trip!
Seas of Romance . . imposing
ocean liners . . a choice of two *
charming routes. Go by Auck-
land,. Suva and Honolulu to Van-
couver (Canada) or by Welling-
ton, Rarotonga and Tahiti to San
Francisco. Then, if Europe is in
your mind, you may cross from
either point. Discuss your plans
with the—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.
247 George Street, Syduey.
59 William Street, Melb., G.l.
a
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN & UNION Royal Mail Lines.
sassss* 1
ff
Ita
(%Ho/thesc>|onions
Full of charm and interest the Solomon
Islands are only 7 days’ steaming north-
east of Sydney.
To those in search of an Ideal Sea
Trip the opportunity should be now
availed of for a Holiday Cruise among
these Wonderful Coral Islands.
The S.S. ‘‘MATARAM” sails from Sydney
19th March and 30th April, visiting more
than a score of Picturesque Island Ports.
Round Trip 4J Weeks.
Fare £4l Return.
Write for Booklet No. 52/S tt
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD.
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
xo * 1
fs
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150.000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
588 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.’
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Queensland's
Largest and Most
Effective Advertising
Medium—
THE "BRISBANE COURIER”
These amazing comparison figures should prove beyond all doubt the
superiority of the “Brisbane Courier” as an advertising medium:—
FOR YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1929.
“Brisbane Courier”:
29.152 J
columns of advertising.
Two other Brisbane dailies—one
morning, the other an evening
28,6721
columns of advertising.
This is easily the strongest evidence, too, that the “Courier” is first in
CIRCULATION, COVERAGE, ADVERTISING AND INFLUENCE.
Specimen copies and Rate Cards from Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Published by the Brisbane Newspaper Co., “Courier” Building,
i Queen Street, Brisbane.
Shipping, etc.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Nestor . . 15,000 tons, Feb. 25
fßunic . . 12,500 ~ March 1
11,500 ~ March 15
tCeramic . . 18,500 ~ March 25
*Ulysses . . 15,000 „ April 18
*First class only. f“Cabin” class only,
t First and third class.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
Agents
SPLENDID CHEAP SERVICE
Via Suez Canal.
FAST OIL, BURNERS
Fares to London from £3B.
To Colombo from £22.
Special Excursion Return Tickets to
Colombo issued from Sept, to Feb., £32-
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
SPACIOUS DECKS—DECK CABINS—EXCELLENT
MENU—CINEMA—DANCE MUSIC REPRODUCED
WITH ELECTRIC AMPLIFIERS—
CANVAS SWIMMING BATH
Freight Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd,
Joint Passenger Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Tel • 86701. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.,
Tel.: 87512. 247 George Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/fc/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Pliilp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide' Street, Brisbane.
Huddart Parkei L^ 1
Magtilfloenl
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per dailv papers.
For full particulars apply HUdDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
WITH
his purchase of space
in “The Telegraph’’
the advertiser acquires
the permanent interest
of an organisation
containing experts on
every aspect of the
printing business.
AND-
both reader and pur-
chaser appreciate the
workmanship.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co. Ltd.
Queen Street,
Brisbane.
Sydney Representative: N. L. ROBERTS,
Country Press Co-op. of Aust., Ltd.,
Barrack Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
-note you price for the original.


A
. • A iff
9*5
w
On the Beach
at Waikiki.
Hawaii
A golden stretch of glistening sand and nodding coco-palms,
flanked by splendid hotels—inviting crystal water that is always
warm, and racing breakers that propel outrigger canoes, and surf
boards for many hundred years. Health giving sun bathing every
day in the year.
You should spend your next holiday in Hawaii, for apart from
sunny beaches, there is the dream City of Honolulu—Kilauea
Volcano—glorious inter-island cruises and a hundred other rare
delights awaiting you.
Luscious pineapple, papaia (paw paw), mangoes, bananas and
other tropical fruits always available. Native pageants, water
carnivals to see. Plenty of golf courses and tennis courts, hun-
dreds of miles of fine motor roads. Something new to do every
day.
Special return excursion fares now available. Accommodation
from 15/- per day, inclusive of meals. Send us your address and
we will forward to you descriptive booklets of the Hawaiian
Islands, attractively illustrated in colour.
Hawaii Tourist Bureau
Dept. 1 7 Box 1627 88., G.P.O.
SYDNEY
"TRUTH
IN ADVERTISING”
South Australian
Perpetual Forests fe
MESSAGE No. 2.
South Australian—Therefore Good!
Official forestry records of growth prove that the
South-East of South Australia, where this Company’s
forests are located, is the finest timber-growing
country in the world.
Proof:—
Extract from South Australian Government Records,
Mount Burr Forest,. Millicent:
19 years old—volume per acre, 93,240 super feet.
Penola Forest:
17 years old—volume per acre, 68,376 super feet.
This is Your Protection.
To distinguish
South Australian Perpetual Forests Ltd.
from those companies now using similar
names, we have registered for the
Company’s exclusive use the title design
illustrated above, and the “Pine-tree”
trademark shown. Literature published
by us always contains these designs.
South Australian
Perpetual Forests Ltd.
Bowman Buildings,
King William Street, Adelaide.
(Plantations: Penola and Mt. Gambier,
South Australia.)
POST THIS COUPON WITHOUT DELAY!
To South Australian Perpetual Forests Ltd.,
Bowman Buildings, King William Street, Adelaide.
Please forward your booklet “Tree Farming” to —
Name
Address
KflXsfcS.” * «‘° n WUngl 7
All the same,” Bob argued, “I think”
thronrif thalrf crash that resounded
of it mwhr h JS 8 « / or a momen t the shock
rely staitled us. Bob was the first
S, t JS , . wI ?-. V* Iloi “ c»me f?™
the hall, and he dashed across the room to
the communicating door. As he opened it
her" eves **!' Step by step sllc came >
witl/rmt on some spot in the hall
ltliout. Not till a table stopped her pro-
gress did she turn slowly and face us.
“What does it mean?” she asked. “I
don t understand; It i s full of gold!
Nuggets! Sovereigns! I tried to take it
down but it was too heavy. I tilted it
towards me-—oh, the weight was terrific!
it tell, the lid came off, and they tumbled
out m a glittering heap. The carpet lias
changed color round about where the gold-
dust has fallen. Mr. Hendon, what does it
m an? Why should there be gold in the
bronze jar?
came back. “There is enough wealth
spilled on that floor to ransom a king!” he
cried excitedly. “There are nuggets in a
quantity one dreams of, but never hopes to
see. a here are sovereigns, handfuls of
them: And thick wads of banknotes neatly
tied up in bundles with red tape!” He
turned to Barbara. “In the heap I found
these slips of paper. Maybe they throw
a light on what is out there.”
‘She took them, opened the first, read a
tew lines, glanced here and there, turned
to the signature, then with a cry pushed
them from her.
,£ ow dreadful! How diabolically
horrible. she cried. Turning to Bob, she
pleaded, “Read them aloud to me. And,
tor the love of God, read a different mean-
ingl to the one I see written there!”
Bob hesitated, but when his grandfather
nodded, he took up the first sheet and began
to read:
“‘I am writing this, because some day
my hoard is sure to be discovered, and I
have a mind to acquaint the ; finder with its
history.
“ ‘This is the tale of a myth, of a barri-
cade of superstition that I have built about
my gold which has proved safer than iron
bars, than the vaults of a city bank.
“‘To begin, I must go back to the days
of the gold rush. I was lucky at Mount
Alexander, and men soon came to envy me.
Always I was conscious of eyes following
uie—eyes that held a covetous gleam in
them.- I became alarmed. What was I to
do? Take my gold to Melbourne myself?
I dared not! I pictured the owners of those
eyes slinking* behind me as I went, drawing
in closer, and licking their lips, like hungry
wolves, as we neared the Black Forest.
By-and-by they would leave the forest with
their lust satisfied. But I would remain
there alone, to rot.
“ ‘The escort? But there, too, the eyes
betrayed greed. They, too, watched me
hungrily. No, I would not trust my gold tq
them!
“ ‘What was I to do? I thought long, and
then I conceived the idea of the myth. I
waited, and then one day my chance came.
There was a tragedy on the fields which I
seized and used for my purpose. How easy
it was to dupe my companions!
“ ‘The Egyptian jar I acquired in Mel-
bourne in payment for a debt. How well it
has served my purpose! The Sphinx that
crowns its ugly contour looks down with
an inscrutable smile as I write this and seems
to join me in jeering at the simplicity of
man!
“‘I saw the possibilities of the situation
and created my myth. With the jar as a
bringer of evil I knew its contents to be
safe. The heirloom, the family records were
all part of the hoax. I realised that I must
account for the disappearance of my wealth,
so I took to myself the role of gambler.
Again I created a myth, “The curse of the
Ranshaws.” A taint of heredity that made
us gamblers from generation to generation!
An urge in our blood that we could not
fight nor escape !
“ ‘On the fields I mostly lost; I was no
cardplayer, had no interest in the game;
my mind was concentrated on my role. To
be as disagreeable as possible was my aim,
so that I would be asked to play only
occasionally. I succeeded admirably. The
great losses I moaned about took place in
the city. No one ever saw me gambling in
Melbourne, yet they believed. Poor simple
fools!
“ ‘So, my unborn descendant, if you have
something you prize that others covet, sur-
round it with a barrier of superstition and
you will know that it is safe.’ ”
Bob laid aside the sheet. “It is signed
T. V. Ranshaw,’ ” he said.
“The damned old swindler!” the Old Man
exploded. “Well, go on, let’s hear what the
other letters have to say.”
“ ‘To-day wee Jinnie was drowned,’ ” Bob
began, reading the second sheet. “ ‘A few
short hours ago and she was charming me
with her quaint chatter, and now, fresh from
the foul clutches of the dam. she lies, a wet,
bedraggled thing on the big bed in her
mother’s room. I couldn’t bear the noisy
grief, of the women or the stark misery in
Barrie’s eyes, so I crept out, gathering her
little handkerchief and a wet sock they had
just stripped off my darling’s foot. I would
keep them, guard them as I do my treasure;
so I climbed upon a chair and lifted the lid
of the jar. But they were moving in the
death-chamber. I had hardly time to slip
the sock in and seat myself at the table
when they came into the hall.
“ ‘lt was Larrie’s exclamation that drew
my eyes to the niche, and there, beside the
jar, lay the little handkerchief.
“ ‘ “Jinnie touched the jar,” they said at
once, “and paid the price.”
“ ‘Poor simple fools !
“ ‘My treasure is safer now. I have no
fear that it will be found while any of those
clustered in the hall live.
“ ‘But, O my unborn descendant, when
you gather in the contents of the jar, treat
reverently, I charge you, the mud-begrimed
sock of little Jinnie.’ ”
There was silence in the room as Bob
picked up tire last sheet-
“ ‘Can one, in creating a myth,’ ” Bob read,
“ ‘call into being a force endowed with
powers derived wholly from one’s imagin-
ings? Have I, in building up this barrier of
superstition, drawn some strange force out
of the ether, stronger and more deadly than
human power? Have I set a ball rolling that
has grown and grown until it is large enough
to crush me and mine?
“ ‘Almost I begin to wonder if it is the
spirit of Doyle revenging himself for the
use I made of his death.
“‘Or is the jar really Egyptian? Has it
some supernatural power? One reads of
strange things coming out of Egypt. Maybe
it was set to guard some ancient ruler's
tomb, and, torn from its trust, its uneasy
spirit works evil wherever it goes. Was
mine the idea of creating the myth? I did
not think of it until after the jar came into
my possession. Did its influence prompt
me? Did it engineer Doyle’s death for its
vile purpose?
“ ‘And, later, when they were beginning
to laugh at the superstition of the jar, tell
the tales of tragedy with a laugh—“coinci-
dence” was the word they used—little Jinnie
died, and they laughed no more.
“ ‘But that was years ago. When fear
is not stimulated the human mind forgets.
Of late “coincidence” has again crept into
the tale. And now it is David who dies!
“ ‘Was it I who dropped the handkerchief
on the niche? I am not careless where the
jar is concerned. Was it my finger-marks
they found to-day? No one has ventured to
dust the jar since Jinnie died, and I have
left no mark there before. Why should I
be careless only after Jinnie was drowned,
and now when David dies?
“ ‘Was it this mystic guardian that
prompted me to drive David out empty-
handed? Three thousand pouhds is a lot to
give to square a gambler’s debts! Yet I
should have known that he was desperate.
Was it this strange “thing” that guided him
to the railway crossing, timing with diaboli-
cal accuracy his arrival, gloating, no doubt,
over the poor mangled remains that the
train hurled contemptuously from under its
iron heel? Was it this “thing” that>' sent
David’s threat of suicide ringing through my
brain like a knell, till, to ease my fears, I
took from my treasure the cursed three
thousand pounds, and in doing so left the
tell-tale finger-marks ?
“ ‘They are telling, in, awed whispers, the
oft-repeated tales, adding to-day’s tragedy
to their sum. Once how I would have
laughed at their foolish credulity ! But now
their chatter drives me mad! I am more
fearful thani any one of them!
“ ‘When I gaze at that accursed Sphinx,
my brain reels! Do I simply see a fixed
grin of cleverly wrought bronze, or is there
a superhuman knowledge behind that inscru-
table smile ?
“ ‘You, who break the spell of the jar—if
there is human strong enough to do so—fling
the lid into a furnace that the damned
Sphinx can laugh no more!’ ”
“I’d like to open his grave,” Barbara
cried, vindictively, “and place it beside his
bones, that its smile may torture him through
eternity ! Oh, was there ever born a human
more vile, more contemptible!”
“Steady, Barbara,” Bob cried sharply;
“that is not the way to look at it. In
writing those letters he has made reparation.
Don’t you realise that you are free? The
curse of the Ranshaws does not exist. You
should thank God for to-day’s revelations.”
“But my father and grandfather were
gamblers,” she whispered, hopelessly.
“Good Lord, girl, who wouldn’t be? The
curse was drilled into them from babyhood
as an inevitable heritage. The mind can be
stimulated artificially, just as plants are
forced in hot-houses. Heredity had nothing
to do with it. Barbara, it was auto-sug-
gestion pure and simple. You’ve got to get
that fixed in your mind.”
But Barbara appeared not to hear him.
The needless sacrifice of her people to an
old man’s lust was crushing her.
The telephone bell rang and Bob went to
answer it.
“By Jove!” the Old Man mused. “It
wasn’t David’s death that broke Ranshaw,
it was fear! Now I can see through those
queer sayings of his that baffled, us. He was
caught in his own trap! He talked so
much of superstition that, in the end, he
grew to believe in it himself. For years his
life was a torture of fear.”
Bob came back. “Barbara, the agent is
on the wire,” he said, “He' wants to- know
when you will be in to sign the final
papers.”
Barbara raised her head; slowly her
hands released their convulsive grip on the
tablecloth. “Tell him,” she said, “that
Ranshaw Park is withdrawn from sale. Oh,
and Bob, will you ’phone Rodney? Tell
him I am at home and would like to see
him.”
Pistol and Poison
H. T. GIBSON
REPORTS A TRAGEDY WITH TRIMMINGS.
THE lightest of breezes blew in from the
sea. The laziest of wavelets came rip-
pling up the sands of the beach. From
the shallow* pools that fringed the edge of
the incoming tide the reflections of the stars
tAvinkled and glittered like gems set in a
carpet of .silvery velvet.
The man and the woman sat on a car-rug
spread on a bank of sand beyond reach of
the encroaching waters. The man’s eyes,
bent fixedly on the face of the woman by
his side, held both passion and despair in
the intensity of their gaze. She avoided his
eyes and looked steadfastly at the widespread
wastes beyond.
V
They were alone. The woman spoke.
“It is foolish of you to love me so!” she
said.
“Foolish? Yes!” he replied, grasping her
hands. “Foolish? Yes, some would call
it so. But what do I care for opinions—
for anything save my knowledge that to you
I owe the supremest joy of my whole life?
The mere knowledge .that you love me, that
you are mine in soul and spirit, compen-
sates me for all the Avretchedness that our
love entails. Before I loved you I existed.
You have taught me what it is to live. One
hour of your sacred companionship is Avorth
(Continued on next page.)


3
m
SS
¥:
p
SwS. *
111
3a
mm
««
. !
K
UmJJWW
i '
|! Sr <
*CentraLfta.ibi)aTj Sbn
SV~ONEY~ ■*/ c U<
Hl'
mess
X&3.&
1
EXCLUSIVE
a
44 CYMA M watches can be
relied upon to £et you there
on time. No fear of bein& a
minute fast or a minute slow.
They are ON TIME ALL
THE TIME and, unlike many
other watches, are absolutely
interchangeable, so that in case
of accident, arty spare part is
available to your watchmaker,
allowing him to &ive you
prompt service at a minimum
Cost.
For style and appearance
"CYMA H watches have no
equal, as each of the equisite
models is designed to meet the
demand of the most fastidious,
‘The World’s Wonder Watch’
SOLD BY ALL
JEWELLERS
CYMA
WATCHES
THE
LATEST
CREATION
‘C
£
c y
$
&
<7
the Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Patterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
426 National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
726 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER*
who will quote you price for the original.
station that she could not speak of without
a funny little grimace. Abernethy felt like
home after that. And she couldn’t live long
without Jim. A low, happy chuckle came
from her throat whenever his name cropped
up, as if his slight figure and grinning face
was a secret source of delight to her. Ella?
Yes, she missed Ella, but her sister had .a
good home over on the Warrego, with three
children and a man who gave her every-
thing she wanted. Fallon, his name was,
Andy Fallon. He had met Ella when she
was working at the storekeeper’s place in
the township, and had given up the drink
ever since he married her. She herself had
gone to stay with Ella once, and Andy hail
treated her like a lady.
“He’s a lot older than Ella,” she said,
“and he gets a bit cranky when his temper’s
roused. Ella don’t want for nothing,
though. He’s going to take her for a trip
to the coast as soon as the baby’s a bit
older.”
There was a naive pride in her voice
when she talked of Ella’s good fortune, as
if the fact of her sister marrying a man of
substance raised the status of the whole
family. Boyd, watching her glowing face,
wondered what dreams she had about her
own future. So closely had they lived to-
gether in childhood that he was inclined
to forget she had dark blood in her. Yet
there it was, a mysterious essence linking
her to a primitive race, and perhaps shadow-
ing her mind with memories and instincts
she did not fully understand.
(To be continued next week.)
a century of existence without it. While
you permit me to worship you, I am content,
even though our lot is so bitter.”
The woman smiled, and her sweet, child-
ish face flushed slightly at his words. She
released one of the tiny jewelled hands and
gently caressed his cheek with it. “I love
you,” she said very softly, “better than my
riches; better, I think, than honor; aye,
better even than life itself.”
Followed a minute of silence, during which
the man’s features worked strangely. Then
he drew her closely to him and spoke
hoarsely, fiercely: “You say you love me
better than life. Do you mean what you
say ?”
“I do,” she answered, making no effort
to repel the feverish kisses with which he
accompanied the words. “But why do you
look at me so strangely?”
“Listen, my love, my deity,” he went on
passionately. “If you love as I do, you
know that life without love is worthless.
Yet in loving me you risk honor, position,
peace. There is peril for ourselves and
others in every moment that we spend to-
gether. For you I am willing to end it all.
In you I have my heaven. I desire to die
before that heaven crumbles away. Darling,
let us die together!”
He felt the slender form, so perfect in
its delicate outlines, shudder in his strong
embrace.
She made no answer for awhile. She
seemed stupefied by the awful proposition.
But her face flushed again. Her strongest
emotion was the womanly one of pride in
being loved so well.
“Impossible,” she whispered at last, nest-
ling even closer to him; “if we should die
together, what would the world say? But
oh, it would be sweet to die now —like this.”
“Listen a moment,” he replied. “We will
not die to-night. Let us take our farewell
of the wondrous heaven we have known and
which can last no longer. But to-morrow
night, at a moment we shall fix upon, we
will die, you in your home, I in mine. In
that no one will suspect. We shall be
separated, it is true, but our souls will take
flight at the same instant. In that supreme
moment we shall know the culmination - of
our joy. Do you consent?”
A long pause followed his startling ques-
tion. She placed her hand upon his shoul-
der. “You do not fear death?” she asked
in a steady, even voice.
“Fear!” he exclaimed. “We Australians
fear neither man nor fiend!” He gazed
across the waters. “Loved one.” he added
plaintively, “you have no fears?”
“Am I not a girl of New Zealand?” she
returned, somewhat vehemently. “Is that
not enough?”
For answer he grasped both her hands.
“Let us show the world,” he said, “that we
so-called society folk of to-day, we of the
jazzing and joy-riding world, can die like
the knights of old—die for an ideal, die in
sacrifice on the altar of Love !”
There was silence again, broken only by
the rippling wavelets on the beach. The
woman gazed with swimming eyes into the
face of the man, and received from that
passionate glance something of his enthu-
siasm. Then she sank half-swooning into
his arms again, murmuring, “I consent.”
❖ ❖ ❖ *
“And so I am to die to-night,” she mused.
It was within half an hour of midnight,
and the tall electric lamp with its orange-
hued shade shed a mellow light over her
chamber.
Very beautiful and fragile she looked as
she stood in delicious disarray before the
tall mirror. Her white gown, caught at the
waist by an ornament of- gold studded with
turquoises, fell in graceful folds to her slip-
pered feet. Her sweet but childish features
bore the expression of a fixed resolve. If
she feared her fate she did not show it.
“Ah ! How he loves me!” she thought.
“How precious this dying together! Shall
we meet up there, I wonder, or do the say-
ings of the pious go for nothing?”
Slowly she drew forth from her wardrobe
a wondrous frock of shimmering silk and
lace. Tiny silver bells tinkled as she laid
it full length on the coverlet of her bed;
it was to have been her fancy-dress for th>
ball of the Follies, to be held the next night
but one. And everyone knew that she would
be the Queen of the Ball, the sovereign Folly
of all.
What a picture—this dazzling, sylph-like
creature, standing there in the soft orange
light admiring that frock, every line of her
face and figure suggestive of the joyous,
radiant life that surged within, and yet
calmly contemplating a self-inflicted death
within the narrow limit of thirty minutes!
When the clock on the mantel should chime
the hour of twelve that little vessel of
laudanum would do its deadly work.
Her eyes grew moist in the serene con-
templation of that dreamless and infinite
sleep. She folded her hands and waited.
The clock gave forth three musical peals.
• A quarter to twelve.
* * * *
He was sprawled half-dressed on the lounge
in the room he occasionally occupied at his
club. A little pile of letters that he had
just written and addressed lay on the table.
He was very pale.
This was to be the end then? This the
termination of an unlawful love that had
been one long, delicious poem !
The hands of the clock marked a quarter
to twelve.
He arose and paced slowly up and down
the room. A flood of memories, wondrouslv
sweet, rushed across his soul. He pressed
his brow with his hands and groaned.
The hands of the clock marked five minutes
to twelve. H'is pallor deepened.
Standing in the centre of the apartment
he tried to realise that in five short minutes
his life would end; and—bitterest thought
of all — she would disappear and become as
nothing! Their very love would pass out
of existence, and be with the million other
loves of the innumerable and unremembered
dead !
The clock chimed the first stroke of mid-
night. He rushed to the mantel, snatched
up the pistol and placed the muzzle to his
temple.
The last stroke of midnight rang out, and
still he stood there.
“Why do not I shoot?”
He cast down the pistol. ‘‘Coward!” he
moertf'd. “What have I done?”
IT' flung on his coat, rushed down the
stairs, leaped into his car and drove past
her house. It was dark and silent as the
grave.
Slowly he put the car away in its garage
and wandered aimlessly about the streets
until morning; then, worn out, he returned
to his club.
* * * *
They met two nights after that at the
Call-All cabaret. She wore that regal frock
of the Follies. He was in evening dress.
He turned a little pale. She blushed.
“I was a poltroon,” he managed to stam-
mer, “but I had a tenner on Miltiades for
the Cup, and I wanted to see,if he’d wm,
and—and” . . , <jr
“For my part,” she whispered back, 1
positively could not kill myself until I grati-
fied my curiosity to know whether you loved
me well enough to die for me ; and, besides,
I did so want to wear this frock, and
and”-——
Crash ! went the jazz orchestra.
The Fairy Women.
Oh, it’s not a gay thing to love
A strange fairy woman—
As bitter as wine mixed with blood
To man who is human.
So many the men who have i known
Since that first cave-morning
When, in It's girl’s eyes, the Axe-Maii
Read clear the faint warning.
Saw, as he raised up his head
From deerskin-wrought pillows,
The far-leading look in her eyes,
Tike a stream under willows
That secretly, silently flows
To wilderness places,
Where spirits and hunterless deer
Bend pale or 'sleek faces.
11.
may appear as great queens
(Cleopatra, to name one),
Or a girl selling flowers in the street
Where the carriage wheels shame one ;
Scherazade, the weaver of wonder,
Where low lamps fed on roses;
Or a gipsy with ragged bronze hair,
For whom every door closes.
We posed when you modelled the Sphinx;
We glanced through long lashes
At your singers, and, like a sad light,
Their heart-cry still flashes.
Oh, Sappho is sister to us,
And that slum-born woman
Who looks far, with sorrowless eyes,
Beyond what is human.
Your harems imprison us not,
Nor child’s hand, nor lover’s;
Sky-roof, blackened rafters, gilt beams—
We care not what covers.
We gave to your stories the rose
Of longing and wonder;
Through us your desire and its goal
Are ever asunder.
A myriad mothers are patient,
And girls sit forsaken—
I pass in girl-guise, or my sister—
Men starve and are shaken.
They clasp but not grasp us; their lips
Touch flowers when they kiss us;
We may lie with them -breast against breast,
Yet they know they miss us.
111.
The human sight fades in my eyes;
I dream—no, I quicken!
I wake in long grass strewn with stars
Where wood-lilies thicken.
The leaves are light fingers of friends.
The wind is my brother,
The hillside a bosom of earth,
The great Goddess-Mother.
The peace-bearing willow-stream moves
Its arms of dark water
(I’ve slept lily-wise on its breast) ;
It murmurs “My daughter”
A dream-voice that tells me of love,
Or a dream-liand smiting?
I wake in live woods from ghost-kisses
Or bodiless fighting!
n.s.w.
DULCIE DEAMER.


WmX
ssti
WESTINCHOUS
Morse Silent Rocker- Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—o 3-107 Featherston Streep Wellington.
rONfftPlt WPtT N * WAT M
LUNbUKU 11. 0. W AuCu
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO,, LTD., Adelaide, S.A,
PROVED !
Those advertisers who are in the position tc
test results have proved time and again that
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland daily, and, its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“THE AGE’’
Established 185 b
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise you do not consider the
money involved as a speculation. You treat
this expenditure as an investment and expect
a reasonable return on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in the
affairs and development of Victoria. Its
present powerful position has been gained by
its literary worth, which appeals to an intelli-
gent public, and by its accurate and complete
news service. These factors, having a direct
hearing on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser looking
for the best INVESTMENT for his advertising
expenditure.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation,
123,533.
Bates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
"The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
Cbe Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Cordon & Qotch, price l\d.
ADVERTISER NE¥SPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
O. N. BEDNALL, "The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Clk mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
carries regularly a far greater total
volume of advertising than any other
newspaper published in Tasmania.
JT is thus, judged by the use made of
its columns, the most popular
as well as the most powerful of the
newspapers of Tasmania.
pROFIT by the experience of the
leading national advertisers, and
place “The Mercury” first when
advertising is under consideration.
Average Net Circulation, 20,967.
F is, undoubtedly, Tasmania’s ablest
and best conducted newspaper.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
P. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square ’
BW 5179. square,
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
m
8
35"5
-.Wrr
•/
_<*
JEYES should be
bright and blue*
tinged ....
IF the whites of the eyes are light and bright
with just a pleasing tinge of blue, your health
is probably right. But let eyes show the least
sign of d scolouration, let them be dull, and it
means bad health—constipation and liver trouble.
Constipation causes poisons to accumulate in the
system which give rise to biliousness, lack of
energy, indigestion and other ailments.
The best treatment is the corrective action .of
Beecham’s Pills—a vegetable laxative which
will surely put you right.
Keep eyes bright by taking
BEECHAMS
PILLS
WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX
&
A
NEW HAT
FOR NOTHING!
SOME SUGGESTIONS FOR WINTER RENOVATIONS.
SEE
%
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1930.
■
64
THE ART OF MAKING-UP.
BREAST-FEEDING.
A PRINCESS’S LOVE TRAGEDY
PROFITS FROM RABBIT FUR.
WOMEN AS SHIPS’ SURGEONS.
WOMAN’S CROCHETED BERETS.
FREE PATTERN OF
UTILITY UNDIE SET.
COMPLETE WITH DETAILS
FOR MAKING
m
\M
OO'*
S'site*
*rs'ss%y‘


SUPREME
in its price class
' • . . /
Examine the Dodge Six in relation to
other cars at its price and you will find
Dodge dominates its field. Its superiority
is maintained by a score of mechanical
features not found in any other car
near it in price. Mono-piece body
without joints and seams to squeak
and rattle, weatherproof 4-wheel
hydraulic brakes, 7-bearing crankshaft,
prolonging motor life, extra-deep 8-inch
frame and oversize balloon tyres are
among the many safety, economy and
performance factors of the Dodge Six
that sustain its reputation for dependa-
bility and make it supreme in its class.
DODGE BROTHERS SIX
CHRYSLER MOTORS PRODUCT
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W. Harden & Johnston, Limited, Sydney
Victoria . . Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland . . . Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane and Townsville
S.A ....... Waymouth Motor Company, Limited, Adelaide
W.A Winterbottom Motor Company, Limited, Perth
Tasmania Co-operative Motors, Ltd., Hobart
