

he Story of
A
- \m'
y
MS
-ill
5^
,^<l
L
T^jctio.
t?£.
l
\t
r
~r
- i
rav
Jirst Qhapher* jj[
On the shores of Port Waratah, close to Newcastle, New South Wales, there
existed for centuries an unhealthy, unsightly swamp.
When the Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Ltd., decided, in 1912, to engage
in the production of iron and steel, this spot was selected, on account of its
deep-sea frontage, as a suitable spot for the establishment of the works. By
the outbreak of the war the construction of the works was well advanced,
and the Government and people of Australia were consequently able to look
forward with confidence to the maintenance of railway communications and
the continuance of manufacturing operations.
The swamp had produced nothing—the Steel Works, which were taking its
place, were relied upon to produce sufficient iron and steel for the industrial
security of Australia.
After the establishment of the industry the first
thought was naturally for National Australian needs.
The Australian Railways required rails and fishplates—
engineering workshops needed iron and steel in various
forms to enable them to keep the manufacturing and
mining industries going
These requirements were carefully studied, and the
necessary supplies were produced, with the result that
the wheels of Australian Com-
merce and Industry were kept
moving, and employment given
to the many thousands of
workers.
c
W
ail*'**
1
‘Jfte Second QJiapiep
But there were other materials required in Australia—the
needs of the great Primary Industries next came under
review. As the production and distribution of these articles
required specialised handling, it was decided to operate through
subsidiary company, Rylands Bros. (Aust.), Limited, whose works
were established adjoining the Steel Works at Newcastle.
“WARATAH” FENCING WIRE, “WARATAH” BARBED
WIRE and “WARATAH” WIRE NETTING were the first lines
turned out. These were of the very highest grade, comparing to
advantage with any similar articles produced in any part of the
world. These articles were eagerly welcomed by primary pro-
ducers, their sterling quality at once recommending them.
The Management of the Newcastle Works were, however, not yet satisfied. They saw that, year after year,
hundreds of miles of fencing were destroyed by bush fires. Could this great loss be prevented? Why not
steel fence posts?
No sooner was the question raised than steps were taken towards its solution. The posts required must be exceptionally
strong, easily erected, not too heavy, and with a lifetime of service before them. They must be so constructed that the
fiercest bush fire would not harm them. After many experiments all these requirements were fulfilled, and primary producers all
over the Commonwealth are now using WARATAH “B.H.P. STAR” STEEL POSTS, which are absolutely safe from fire, will not
rot, are impervious to white ants, require no postholes, do not need to be bored, do away with wedges or ties, and obviate the
necessity for ramming the posts, or for insuring fences against fire.
The “WARATAH” STEEL POSTS, which are prepared exclusively from Newcastle “8.H.P.” Steel, are probably the greatest boon
yet enjoyed by the man on the land. They have been made possible by the establishment of the Steel Works at Newcastle, and by
the skilled local knowledge of their managers.
The latest product for landowners is the FLEXO STEEL DROPPER, which is unbreakable, fireproof and rustproof. It is flexible,
easy to fix and can be attached to any existing fence. It is specially suited for use with the “Waratah ’’Steel Posts.
The Newcastle Steel Works give employment to thousands of Australian workers, enable Australian Railways to be run, help Aus-
tralian engineers and manufacturers, and assist primary producers to conduct their operations efficiently and economically.
THE PROGRESS AND PROSPERITY OF AUSTRALIA
ARE CLOSELY LINKED UP WITH THE NEWCASTLE IRON
AND STEEL INDUSTRY.
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARYCO.LIP
IRON AND STEEL MASTERS.
BRANCH OFFICES—SYDNEY: 2S O’Connell Street. ADELAIDE: 28 Franklin Street
LONDON: 3 Gt. Winchester Street.
WORKS—Iron & Steel Works, Newcastle, N.S.W. Wire Mills: Rylands Bros. (Aus.), Ltd., Newcastle.
Iron Knob, S.A. Limestone Quarries: Devonport, Tas.
HEAD OFFICE: 422 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
PERTH: William Street
Ironstone Quarries:
-4
The Bulletin
Turfny-to ikeTtfeWiM' Jb/uxxfcnvwdr sam26
Vol. 51.—N0. 2604.
Wednesday, January 8, 1930.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


for the Library Catalogue and
terms, and lists on all subjects, which
will be forwarded post free oh application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Learn
Story Wrjtwg
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence Colleae
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. * ’
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write' for Profit its
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. • J j as
My Name ;
My Address
S.R.
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
kV.
J?
MW 3
YOUR OPPORTUNITY
Policies effected under participating
Tables in the Ordinary Department by
3 Ist December
WILL SHARE IN THE CASH
SURPLUS FOR THE YEAR.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
On 30th June, 1929, distributed over THREE
MILLION POUNDS in Cash amongst participating
members in the Ordinary Department.
Assets - - - £74,000,000
F. T. BRIDGES, Acting General Manager.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
w hair
< nko
here's
•umy-
tbhjhbjhķ
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
&Clll&ris cmcxican)
UkUnut Stain
♦removes the crey'*
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct HI6), 6d. being postage.
tbhjhbjhķ
CutfcuiWj
SOAP
tbhjhbjhķ
World-Famous for
Daily Toilet Use
The every-day use of Cuticura Soap
assisted by occasional applications of
Cuticura Ointment, when required, is
your best insurance against skin troubles.
They not only cleanse and purify, but
also enhance and preserve the natural
qualities of the skin and hair.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S.W.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
tf
m
•> .r-f
! J?si
SOLD AT CHEMISTS, GROCERS
and STORES. Price if
The Great Insect Destroyer
KILLS ALL INSECTS.
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY,
Melbourne, Agents.
re
=3»=St^'
The Red Page
The "Tax on Education” Cry
Nothing is surer than that the Tariff
Board will eventually recommend an effec-
tive duty on certain classes of imported
books. Until some such action is taken
Australia can never have a publishing indus-
try worth talking about—a fact which must
be apparent to anyone who realises that,
while thousands of overseas books actually
sell for less here than in their country of
origin, almost every article that goes to
make up a book carries a duty.
It will hardly be denied that Australia
ought, to have a publishing industry. It
is not a matter for comment that, say,
Liberia has none, but that a nation of
7,000,000 literate whites should be in such
a plight is culturally shameful. And this
is quite apart from the consideration that
a big field of steady employment is being
sacrificed by the inertia of our politicians in
the matter. Why Laborites who are always
bewailing unemployment should ignore this
question so consistently is a mystery. The
trade is worth about £7,000,000 p.a. to
Britain, and over £20,000,000 p.a. to America.
The arguments against fostering an Aus-
tralian publishing industry turn out, when
examined, to be exactly the same as those
used in the past against the fostering of
every other kind of Australian industry. I
can remember when it was said freely that
“no one of taste could ever be got to drink
Australian wine” even in Australia, and
that the only effect of a duty would be to
“keep out real wine.” Now all classes are
drinking Australian wine in Australia; and
in England, while there has been a drop
this year in clearances from bond of foreign
wines of nearly 3,000.000 gallons, there has
been a big increase in the clearances of
Australian wines. And Australians are still
drinking plenty of imported wine. Why
should it be different with books?
The case of the U.S.A. is an indication
of what would be likely to happen here.
The copyright in an overseas book can only
be secured by its complete manufacture in
the States within 60-120 days of publication.
There are many books that it would not
pay to either print or pirate in America—
educational works with small circulations,
editions de luxe. etc.—and they are im-
ported. But English 7s. 6d. novels, of
which thousands are sold in the States, are
practically all printed there (the British
publishers usually supplying the electro-
plates or stereoplates to avoid the expense
of dual typesetting), and American workers
are the principal beneficiaries.
If our Tariff Board recommended legis-
lation that would cause overseas novels to
be printed here (while leaving the position
unchanged, for the present, as regards
historical, economic and 'religious works,
biographies, books on art, medicine, tech-
nical subjects and educational literature
generally), none of our intelligentsia would
have cause to complain, and hundreds of
workers would benefit. Australian novelists
would not gain; on the other hand, they
would not lose. Instead of shipping an
edition by a local writer from London, the
same number of books would be produced
here, with equal efficiency and at about the
same price, and the freight would be saved.
JOHN DALLEY.
"The Soldier’s War,” and Others
Putnam is satisfied that for the cause of peace
the 300,000 copies of “All Quiet” have not been
wasted in Great Britain.—Extract from the pub-
lisher’s publicity sheet.
I regret that I was unable to obtain permission
to quote from “All Quiet on the Western Front.”
—Editor John Brophy in his introduction to The
Soldier's War (Bent).
A deep voice (it must be Calliope again—she is
always so fond of repetition) inquires once more;
“Where’s Clio?” And Echo, the little stupid,
answers: “Where?”—Philip Guedalla, in The Muss-
ing Muse (Hodder and Stoughton; Angus and
Robertson).
Our men, like heroes, did not yield a foot. —From
German Students’ War Letters (Methuen).
Its body is supposed to have weighed about 200
tons, and its brain a little less than two ounces. —
Colonel J. C. F. Fuller, after calling a writer a
literary brontosaur in The Generalship of Ulysses
S. Grant (Murray).
I have read your article in which you imply
that war literature like “All Quiet on the Western
Front” is not likely to ensure peace. You are a
fool. —Extract from a letter to myself from an anony-
mous friend.
To begin with the publicity sheet. So
overjoyed is Putnam at having done his
bit in the cause of peace that he or others
getting a cut out of the dingdong best-
seller button up when the equally altruis-
tic house over the road wants to spread
the great gospel a bit further. So much for
that.
Philip Guedalla suggests that Clio, the
Muse of History, has vanished off the map.
He goes on, in the listed book of his latest
brilliant essays, to imply that, whereas
Gibbon and Macaulay were not afraid to
write history, we have got down to accept-
ing only dry-bones accounts from our his-
torians. He is wrong. Much history is
dry bones. Much history always was. But
if he himself doesn’t write history and if
Lytton Strachey doesn’t do likewise, no one
ever did write it. “Write” is italicised to
imply good writing as distinct from mere
recording, and I fancy there is a fair
amount of it also in the book listed in
extract 2, “The Soldier’s War.” Therein
Edmund Blunden, Henri Barbusse, Francis
Brett Young, Ford Madox Ford, C. E.
Montague, R. H. Mottram, Arnold Zweig,
Edward Thompson and several other sol-
diers write war history. It is writing and it
is war. It will not be a best-seller because
it is not a best smeller. “German Student’s
War Letters” does not come fairly into the
category. It is historical material rather
than history. But historians and indeed
anyone who would know what war
actually was like, instead of wagging a stan-
dard of snivel-and-entrails in hope of scar-
ing a too inherent vice out of their grand-
children, cannot afford to miss either book.
These books do not paint the lily by a long
chalk; but, on the other hand, they do not
read as if they had been written by crawl-
ing little cowards trying painfully to recap-
ture the blue funk they were in ten or more
years ago.
Because I have found it necessary in
touching upon a controversial subject not
only to call a spade a spade but to dig
up something with it for proof, I want to
reassert an admiration for “All Quiet.” No
reviewer anywhere praised it any more
enthusiastically than I did. I still believe
it a magnificent fragment of realistic fic-
tion. But when anyone calls me a fool for
daring to suggest that it and the rest of
this war fiction is not very likely to ensure
peace I feel tempted to hurl back the
epithet of Colonel Fuller in re Bronto-
saur, ex parte and defunct. I have no
motive whatever. I look at the thing quite
dispassionately, but I do look. And I
look all the harder because I live in a land
where just now the political brontosaur,
gorged on this comforting peace pap, goes
crashing through what little • barriers we
have in order to get into some fat place
and sleep.
Which brings me to the last book listed
for this omnibus review. It is appropriate.
It is war; it is history; and it is much
more readable than its title might suggest.
It is made readable, not so much because
of Colonel Fuller’s handling of General
Grant, nor because it embraces a racy run-
ning account of a spectacular conflict, but
rather because the author has opinions
and is not afraid to air them. An argu-
ment in favor of the wind-well-up variety
of war book is that in future when We go
into a war we’ll know what to expect. Can-
didly, I believe that such writing can be
effectual only to us who are alive and more
or less know already. Even if it reaches,
it will have scarcely any effect upon that
generation to come which is going to suffer
the next horror. I may be wrong; quite
likely I am. But that is at least how I
feel about it, and not how somebody has
told me I ought to feel. More valuable,
in raj r opinion, is a pair of eyes that can
look at things like this:—
To suggest that war has had its value, and may
still have its value; that it has hitherto been an
essential ingredient in civilisation... .is to proclaim
oneself a heretic. Yet this is the dictum of his-
tory, which cares little about the fashions of the
day or the emotions of a fleeting period.
The same sequence of events is to be witnessed
before 1914, the same sequence follows 1919 as
followed 1865, because the World War was but a
thinly-veiled European Civil War. The causes of
these two wars were very similar, the natures of
these two wars were very much alike, and the peace
which followed the one and the other were equally
chaotic. In brief, the statesmanship of 1900-29
learnt nothing from the statesmanship of 1850-79.
In 1914 Europe drifted into war, and in 1919 she
drifted into a so-called peace—nothing having been
learnt from similar driftings in 1861 and 1865.
To-day what is the use of anathematising war, of
outlawry and such-like hocus-pocus, if statesmen
remain armored by their ignorance against the
reality of war—its origins, causes and nature?
Personally, I pray there may be no mote
war, with the considered and considerable
addendum that if there is, then may we be
on the winning side. In the meantime, I
suggest it would be healthier if, instead of
turning our backs on a dreadful possibility
and thinking of the Great War as Moltke
thought of the American disturbance (“Two
armed mobs chasing each other around the
country, from which nothing could be
learned”), we look it straight in the face,
encourage those whose business it is
to do so to study war as a thing that it is
useful to know something about, bearing
always in mind this little point which
Colonel Fuller puts his finger on--that in
the sundry wars in which the U.S.A. has
taken a hand, that Noah’s dove of a country
has gained considerably by each.
CECIL MANN.
Is Shaw a Dramatist?
Is Shaw a dramatist? Some people have
no hesitation in answering that question
with a curt negative. But I imagine they
are mistaken. For if the man who wwites,
for the stage, productions which are acted
by great actors and actresses in many
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“Truth in Advertising” may be regarded as only a Slogan,
but with Anthony Horderns it is the Truth, nevertheless.
To Produce the Best Crops —
Use the Best Implements
We have a complete stock of high-grade farm implements that
may be obtained at the lowest prices consistent with quality.
Anthony Horderns'
(The Senior Store)
tbhjhbjhķ
The “Ideal” Harrow
We are now agents for this splendid implement that is
undoubtedly one of the most useful on the market. It is made
of the best cast steel, so that the teeth can be renewed; thus
it can serve its purpose for years.
This Harrow is just the thing for grass lands; it tears out
moss and spreads manures to great advantage.
It is made in the following sizes:—
No. o.—6ft. wide x 7ft. deep, complete with dragweights.
Price . £9/15/-
Bft. wide x 7ft. deep, complete with dragweights. "
Price £l2/19/6
10ft. wide x 7ft. deep, complete with dragweights.
Price £l6/5/-
n
John Deere Sulßy Rake
XTs2s.—Built almost entirely of steel and malleable iron, the
John Deere Sulky Rake has many superior features in design
and construction. Heavy malleable hinges connect frame with
rake head. A strong steel bar and steel seat support make
a simple and durable connection to the rake head at the centre
and further reinforce the main frame.
Both main frame bars are angle steel. The entire frame is
stiffened and braced by hot-riveted angle steel connections,
steel centre cross sill and two heavy thills. Foot dump, foot
trip and hand lever are connected to frame in a very simple
manner that does away with unnecessary wearing parts and
makes operation easy. AVheeJs have 20 round steel staggered
spokes firmly set in the heavy hub and the channel-steel tyre.
They have a removable combined sleeve and ratchet, made
interchangeable to secure double wear.
Bft. wide, 26 teeth; weight, 3891 b. Price £l7/10/-
53
sum
a
XTI Samson Engine
Samson Engines
Four-h.p. and upwards, are throttling,
governing engines and run on kero-
sene; they are especially well adapted
for use on the farm, or in shops,
elevators, mills, electric-light plants,
creameries, etc., or on concrete
mixers, etc., for inside or outside use.
XTI and 2. : —These are very popular
Engines, and extensively used for driv-
ing small concrete mixers, pumps, drag
saws, and for all purposes requiring
dependable power up to its capacity.
2 horse-power. Price, each .... £34
4 horse-power. Price, each .... £59
6 horse-power. Price, each .... £B4
8 horse-power. Price, each .... £123
XT 2
XT2 Samson Engine
mSE
*
'St
XT 524
John Deere’s High Lift Mower
The John Deere-Dain Mower is an easily-operated, thorough-
cutting, simply-designed machine that will give very satisfac-
tory service over a period of many years in any kind of grass.
Main frame of this machine is made of one solid, heavily-
ribbed casting; bearings are all bored at one time, which
insures perfect alignment of the parts.
Unusually good traction is produced by the wide-tyred wheels,
which have a wide tread. The machine is well balanced,
[here is no neck weight on the horses, the large adjustable
'ru- ng , Spri P g carries the weight of the cutter bar on wheels.
This also increases the traction, which is of value in heavy
cutting.
A 21-point Malleable Clutch engages instantly, giving sure,
positive drive and least possible friction. It is not necessary
to back up the Dain Mower to get started even in the heaviest
grass; it starts cutting the instant the machine moves ahead.
Three Sets of Gears which make up the driving parts are
arranged so that they balance one another. This means less
friction, lighter driving and maximum power with minimum
wear.
High Lift.—By means of a special hand lift and gag lever
the driver can throw the cutter bar into a vertical position
at any time without leaving his seat. This lever has a spade-
handle grip and is assisted by the foot lever and the powerful
lifting spring, making the handling of the cutter bar easy and
convenient.
Automatic Throw-out.—The cutter bar may be raised by the
foot lift alone to pass over slight obstructions without throwing
the mower out of gear. When the bar is raised beyond this
point, with the hand lever, the mower is automatically thrown
out of gear.—XTs24.
Dain Mower, High Lift
Length of knife, 3|-ft., with shafts, 7201 b. Price £3O
Length of knife, 4£ft., with pole, 7441 b. Price £32
(Dept., Fourth Floor. We deliver free city and suburbs only.)
tbhjhbjhķ
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, GP.O.


\
a
rffi
mw
$
MU
WOULD'
m
LARGEST
MBb&BOY
WMWTOD
c r ji;
IMI
m
n f
ht
k
Bargains Hotter
Than Ever!
tbhjhbjhķ
Commencing January 10th
A Banquet of Bargains!
ther Tailoring
SALE SPECIALS
£7 , 10'- Suits
to Measure for £6'ls'-
A fine collection of Pure Wool Worsteds
in exclusive weaves and tones of ; Blues,
Fawns, Navys, and the latest Browns, hand-
finished.
£B'l(y- Dinner Suits
to Measure £7'l3'-
Distinctively tailored from high-grade black
pinhead coatings of fast dye. Full silk
facings.
SPORTS SUITS
In new All-wool Sports Tweeds of Grey and
Fawn, two-piece,. to your measure.
Usually - £4 , 16 / 3
Red Spot Price £4'6'B
Free
The best book of men’s wear bargains
in Australia. Write to Desk R for your
copy.
Sensational i
The huge new Store spacious new Depart-
ments, vastly increased stocks—now demands
end - of - season clearance of these huge stocks in
record time.
To accomplish this a Bargain Drive of unusual mag-
nitude has been launched, providing opportunities
for money-saving without parallel in the history of
the Firm. As a basis everything (except tobacco and
a few proprietary lines) is reduced at least
10% SLrSJfS.” Half Price!
£7'7'. Suit to Measure
-
This prime bargain consists of High-grade Pure Wool
Worsteds in a collection of exclusive weaves, patterns,
and colourings, including the new Greys, Fawns, Blues,
Browns, and Navys; also fine Twill and Herringbone
All-wool Indigo Serges, faultlessly tailored to your
measure. Usually £7/7/- A /fi
RED SPOT PRICE 14
PATTERNS FREE! Post this Coupon
Deskß Murdoch’s, Ltd..
Box 3875 IT, G.P.0., Sydney.
Kindly forward me patterns of your £ 5/14/9 Suitings
to Measure. You. may also include patterns priced about
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR.
P.T.O.
and see more of the
big. reductions over-
leaf.
£
SZRU.r.EORGF Si SYDNEY
“The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’ Wear Store”


TRADE MARK
tbhjhbjhķ
mmmm
KuPPER HAD BULLET
wmcmsrm
BFPER KLAD BULLET
STAVN LESS
XI
Fast, Accural v
«nme
trie in the same
li&eS Lu tUotld.
throughout to-
Theit quahtV
, \ t Handsome m
hud ll - smooth
a ppearat.ce, d
an 3 .
° f
£V?SS.
famous u sed
TKev have been «
£&«*»«*«■»
upon for
bedeP (Ue straight
sute -dependable
shootm 0 i
rPdVlltS-
US
w
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN, CONN., V. S. A.
Always use Winchester Ammunition in Winchester Rifles—they 1
arc made for each other. TKexe’s a Winchester Rifle and there’s I
W inchester Ammunition for eveYy .22 caliber shooting purpose • J
countries and in many languages to admir-
ing audiences who loudly demonstrate their
admiration—if that man is not a dramatist,
he is so amazingly like one that ordinary
mortals may be pardoned for their inability
to discern the difference.
No doubt Shaw’s dramas differ very much
from the other dramas, just as other dramas
differ very much from his, and from one
another. Even before Shaw appeared the
word drama covered a bewildering variety
of productions written for the stage, differing
vastly in quality, in style, in form, in pur-
pose, in almost everything. The name
indeed is of little importance. Shaw him-
self calls some of his plays discussions.
After all, what’s in a name? If the author
of “Man and Superman” is not a dramatist,
he is at least a writer for the stage, and
as such stands secure with the greatest.
The outstanding characteristics of Shaw’s
plays are their penetrating thought. He
makes us laugh, and laugh hilariously, but
the laughter he evokes is essentially intel-
lectual. He tickles our brains; some
humorists only tickle our ears. Shaw makes
us feel without making us weep maudlin
tears and laugh with the laughter of sane
men. And, above all, he makes us think,
which, considering the difficulty of the task,
is easily his greatest achievement.
Some critics contend that Shaw will be
forgotten in the not distant future because
he is essentially modern—the expression of
his own age. Shaw himself has answered
that:—
The writer who aims at producing the platitudes
which will suit ail ages has his reward in being
unreadable in all ages. Plato and Aristophanes,
trying to knock sense into the Athens of their day,
Shakspeare peopling that same Athens with Eliza-
bethan mechanics and Warwickshire hunts, Ibsen
photographing the local doctors and vestrymen of
a Norwegian parish, are still alive and at home
everywhere, while thousands of academic, punctilious
and. archaeologically correct men of letters and art
are among the dust and ashes.
That is the whole matter summed up.
Shaw does not owe his popularity to his
opinions or general outlook on life; he is
popular in spite of them. Even a Conser-
vative like Churchill bears testimony to his
enduring charm. Recently Churchill went
to see a revival of Shaw’s “Major Barbara,”
and this is what he wrote about it:—
Twenty years had passed since I had seen it, 24
since it was first presented. They were the most
terrific 20 years the world has ever seen. Almost
every human institution has undergone decisive
change. The landmarks of centuries have been
swept away... . But in “Major Barbara” there was
not a character requiring to be redrawn. Not a
sentence or a suggestion that was out of date. My
children were astounded to learn that this play, the
very acme of modernity, was written more than
five years before they were born.
Shaw does not date, because he penetrates
beneath the surface that changes to the
roots that endure.
Just as Burns and Shakspeare live by virtue
of their matchlessly vital poetry, so Shaw
will endure by virtue of his matchlessly
vital humor—the richest, sincerest, most in-
evitable and cleanest in the literature of
the world. He has lifted laughter from the
taproom to the skies and made it a light
to lighten the dark ways of the world.
WALLACE NELSON.
Concerning a Devotional Tract
In the hierarchy of Australian horse-wor-
ship no name shines with greater lustre than
that of James Scobie. His fame and the
deeds that he has done are set down in
My Life Upon the Australian Turj
(Specialty Press; Angus and Robertson).
It would be offering a Vichy to a Scotsman
to speak of Scobie to a snow-topped genera-
tion which can recall him, as the writer
does, a mighty rider of steeplechases, and
especially in the “Zetland , spots” of Nor->
man Wilson. Scobie’s middle period of suc-
cess with La Carabine, Sweet Nell, Clean
Sweep and Dreamland, to mention only a
few of them, will come as a grateful mem-
ory to others, and what he has done in the
way of winning races and gaining the appre-
ciation of his fellow-citizens in his later
day needs no recording here, since it is set
down with rare appreciation and lucidity by
his “editor,” as he is modestly willing to
style himself, Frank Hart, of Melbourne
Herald, known to all Australian racing men
as “Khedive.” To all who follow'the enthrall-
ing cult of the thoroughbred horse the meti-
culous notes of training methods, weighting,
trials and performances cannot fail to be a
liberal education; but to those who lean
to the lighter side of racing, the book comes
as a disappointment. It regards the trees
so carefully that the wood is obscured a
little. William Day, one of the greatest
English trainers of old time, has left behind
him a wonderful volume of reminiscence
which includes not only a valuable record
of the training and placing of racehorses
as it prevailed in his day, but striking pen-
pictures of the racing kings of his time,
from mere punters to peers. Nothing of
the kind has been attempted in the Scobie
book. One thinks of the value to the
modern racehorse owner of a word portrait
of, say, Hurtle Fisher, who, after his splen-
did days on the Victorian turf, was content
to retire to the peace of a small station in
southern Queensland. What a story Scobie
could tell about the varying fortunes of
Donald Wallace and his old-time partner
Dick” Casey. ‘ His omission of any but the
most casual reference to Rupert Clarke,
owner of Sweet Nell and many another
good one, and an Elizabethan born out of
his time, is equally regrettable. There is
one more kick coming. The book is not
indexed. »
J.B.H.
A Satchel of Books
The Bachelor Woman and Her Problems,
by Mary Scharlieb (Williams and Norgate).
Sots out to be a practical service to a large
and apparently not decreasing class in
Britain, but drifts into dull generalisms.
Strange Stories, by Algernon Blackwood
(Heinemann). Twenty-six stories selected
from his large practice in the craft by an
author who is mostly left out of lists of
great short-story writers, but deserves to dis-
place many of the dull dogs usually glorified
therein.
Selections from the Prose Works of J. M.
Barrie (London Uni. Press; Dymocks).
Chapters from “The Little White Bird”
(Peter. Pan’s parent), “Auld Liclit Idylls,”
“A Window in Thrums,” “My Lady Nico-
tine,” “Margaret Ogilvy,” “Peter Pan and
Wendy” and “When a Man’s Single,” de-
signed for use in schools and excellent for
the purpose.
Instead of the Thorn, by Georgette Heyer
(Longmans), is an examination of the plight
of a girl who marries in ignorance of what
marriage means. Also of the plight of her
husband, and of the young man who, com-
pletely misunderstanding the situation, tries
to seduce her after she and her husband
have separated. It would have made a good
short story; the subject is hardly big enough
for a novel of over 300,000 words.
Death's Eye, by Laurence W. Meynell
(Harrap) contains this:: —
Charles was thoroughly English and, in a
uniquely English and illogical way, the mere mention
of Sir Reginald Watkins’s name assured him of
everything. “Sir Reggie,” as he was familiarly
known on every racecourse in England, was the
most famous and respected of English sporting peers.
Apart from such passages, which suggest
that U.b.. movie-writers are starting to turn
out English thrillers, the work is a stan-
dardised anti-Bolshie adventure yarn reek-
ing of blood, patriotism and false sentiment.
More Heroes of Modern Adventure, by
T. C. Bridges and H. H. Tiltman (Harrap).
A first-rate book for boys. The heroes, alive
m every sense of the word, include Hinkler
and his lone flight to Australia, Albert
bchweitzer in darkest Africa, Segrave and
his record motor run, Mavvson’s voyages to
the Antarctic, Dr. McGovern’s journey into
the South American country which Conan
Doyle imagined for “The Lost World,” and
sundry others. Good reading, with a new
character and new setting to every chapter.
Tommy the Growler, by Alfred E. Clarke
(Specialty Press, Melb.). Written to show
what Prisoners’ Aid Societies can do in the
way of making the criminal leopard change
bis spots.. It is also an interesting human
story, which is told with attractive simpli-
city and has the impress of truth on every
line of it. Those who argue that criminality
is an incurable disease should study the
case v of Andrew (“Tommy”), who after
establishing, in Judge Gaunt’s words, “a
record unique in the criminal history of
Victoria.” was completely reformed by decent
treatment.
The Earl of llalsbury, by A. Wilson-Fox
(Chapman and Hall). An extremely careful
though scarcely vital “Life” of the Earl of
Halsbury, Lord High Chancellor, who, when
at the Bar, appeared for the Wagga butcher
who claimed the Tichbornc fortune. Gif-
fard, as he then was, thoroughly believed
in Orton for a considerable time, but gave
him up when he guessed Harriet Frances as
the names of his “mother.” Orton had dis-
covered that Lady Tichborne’s initials were
ILF., but had stupidly carried his investiga-
tions no further. Her names were Henrietta
Felicite. The book is rather a family docu-
ment than anything else.
, Jr-V lment in Full i b y Elizabeth Carfrae
(Mills and Boon), is a study in the newer
ethics. The hero and heroine, who have had
a boy-and-girl friendship, spend an illicit
fortnight together after the latter’s marriage
to one whom she respects but can never
love. The result is a daughter whom the
respected one believes is his. The daughter
grows up, makes brazen love to her sailor-
father, and is sternly rebuked, for her licen-
tious conduct. Then her putative father dies ;
her real father marries her mother; she gets
sense, and all ends morally. The story is
smartly written and less unsavory than a
precis makes it appear, but the characters
are without the breath of life. The pure,
true-hearted adulteress-mother is even more
incredible than her nymphomaniacal daughter
who is completely respectabilised in one
lecture.
The Way We Grow Up, by Aelfida Till-
yard (Hutchinsons; Dymocks), is dis-
appointing. The jacket mentions that the
author wrote a brilliant first novel about the
Cambridge of a century ago. This is about
modern Cantabs, and though, it has patches
of admirable writing it never convinces. The
four young men who form the Square (a
society which meets every year), and whose
adolescent lives form the subject of the
story, are essentially young women. Pro-
bably Girton girls. The novel opens with
a supper of “cold chicken and tongue and
meringues and iced cake”—but there are no
drinks; not even a cocktail. None of the
young men touches alcohol all through the
book; none of them utters a swear-word,
and they all prattle. Roy, the hero, is a
typical spoiled flapper; and altogether “The
Way We Grow Up” is as brilliantly unreal
as one of those pictures done by a Japan-
ese artist of Church Parade in London.
The Conquerors, by Andre Malraux (Cape;
Robertson and Mullens). This book is seated
to have been the sensation of the French
publishing season. It tells, in the first per-
son, of the Bolshevik attempt to use Canton
as the spearhead of the Soviet attack on
the British Empire. The shipping strike,
which removed Hong Kong from the list of
world ports, and the boycott, which tem-
porarily paralysed her social life, are vividly ,
presented. Borodin, Garin, Klein and other's
of the Bolshevik secret service oligarchy,
which for a time ruled bloodily in the Chinese
city, flit across the stage with melodramatic
intensity. The professional revolutionary
who tells this inside story is an interesting
savage whose Marxian dogmas are the
equivalents of the Dyak blowpipe. The back-
ground is the filth and misery of the Chinese
masses and the impotence of their academic
leaders. The author’s staccato style fits his
theme admirably.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unliss stamps accompany.
W.T.C.: Well enough done, but not enough
meat in it....Sya: You’re all puff-pastry, t 00....
H.E.R.: Stilted dialogue; and you don’t seem to us
to get the atmosphere.... B. Wood: Right; but not
against an award of the Arbitration Court —against
an award of the Coal Tribunal. .. .Richard H.:
Thanks, but you’re often wrong. You’ll And the
complete story in a special Bulletin on Jan. 29....
P.DeM.: Interesting, but a bit off our beat....
Norbury: Also ran ; yet it looked like a winner once
or twice.... Ben G.: Sorry it’s crowded out —they
all seem to have been writing lately... .James P:
Very fair leather; only moderate cobbling....
Osmar: The peacock spreads its feathers too loosely.
. ...P.L.M.: Did not say it had been published. It
will be —by Stanley Paul, London.... L.L.W.: Sorry,
picture was screened in Melbourne and criticised in
the meantime. .. .W.J.: Too many whiskers on that
topic... .M.M.: You need a new twist with every
repetition to make a triolet... ,A.H.: Too long
and wordy... .C.R.F.: Comparisons of youth and
age no more original than the idea... .C.H.: A
timely corrective: —
When poets sing a song of spring,
Of budding life and love they bleat;
They never hear the welkin ring
When editors curse and stamp their feet.
. ...F.A.: Get off the stilts.... Coo-ee: Too faint
to wake the pay chap.... 67: You don’t see much,
even from the mountain top. .. . A.C.E.: Trumped
with a mild “Deuce!”... .1.P.: Has promise. Now
try in earnest.... Runner: Broke evens to the basket.
....Brady’s Lookout: Like its realism, but otherwise
it’s unsatisfactory.... Gilaomi: Nothing doing with
the “Nice Little C00k”... .F.J.L.: Come again, but
knock out some of the bumps next time... .R.S.:
Nothing like a record; Marie Corelli beats-it h0110w....
low.... Nemo: No use for long, jumbled letter, and
no time to extract the possibly good pars, from it.
.... Trws: There’ll be a photo, of him in the Jubilee
Number, January 29.... A.Q.0.: Simply because he
has as much right to a hearing as you or anyone
else.... S.W.: You don’t make much of a fist of
defining humor.... Old Bird: And a very good bird,
too, though the tail is a bit obscure: —
What’s happening our country ? Is legislation bad ?
There’s something that should not be. Are some gone
mad ?
As 'an Australian toiler forty years and more
One sees evil doings that did not exist before.
Though as a battler all my life to workers I will
stick.
Mobs I’ll never follow or at my country’s laws throw
bricks.
Many are wise heads who’d agree with me if they’d
only dare
The evil mobs in action without a country care.
. ...T.J.T.: Can’t get excited over that... .M.K.:
out. .. . Milko: You’ll have to keep the water out
Expected better from you... .T.Y.0.: Turn ’em into
para.... L.P.: “The Moving Finger” wouldn’t play a
tune on the cash register... .G.A.L.: Failed to find
anything along that track. .. .Yut: Made its way
of your parodies.... 5.P.0.: Something in it, but
not merit... .Belfast: Thanks, and the same to you.
. ...R.L.G,: It’s mostly words. Wait a while and
try again... .R.P.: You’re rather old to be writing
dirges. .. .M.T.: Trot out the steer:—
“Fifteen notes!” cries the auctioneer;
It’s a rangy, upland long-horned steer.
His roving gaze lights on the rails,
He makes a rush, a leap, but fails.
He, thinks again of the tearing mob,
And his bullock heart gives a“ bullock sob.
He’ll never again hear the stockwhip cracks';
Hi.! body is doomed to the butcher’s axe.
Death is sure, for man must eat;
Nevermore will he rush with flying feet
Across the wild bush upland waste,
For he is doomed fof a glutton’s taste.
....Clover; “Roundel to a Radish” not near fruity
enough M.J.N.: It fails to hold interest... .S.M.:
Too late for the occasion... .C.McL.: Seems a bit
rough on the old year L.D.: Can’t separate your
initials with the necessary “5”....P.8.: Can’t grasp
“The skirts of opportunity”... .XXX; Not equal to
brand 1.M.L.: Prefer a live, modern story to a
dead legend... .F.H.P.: Not suitable “from a pisca-
torial point of view,” or any other.... R.A.: A
good dog, but not enough in it for a story... .lv.S.:
Louise Jordan-Miln’s latest is “By Soochow
Waters”; it has been well reviewed... .C.P.K.: If
you can’t change your style, why not your typist?
. ...T.H.8.: In short, a tragedy in three words—
Bill; beer; burial.... D. A.: No resurrection for the
Tantanoola tiger N.F.W.: Don’t like their cus-
toms, and some of their manners are beastly....
G.E.K.: Three sharks and two crocodiles after one
immigrant!... .M.N.: Not a ’weight to the ton in
the mining yarn... .V.W.: No pink Wednesday for
“Blue Monday”... .Darken : Blotted out... .C.U.S.:
By no means a bad first venture... .P.L.E.: May be
something in the idea of “bush playlets” for tired
townsmen, but there must also be something in the
playlets.... Kurri: Well, it’s history of a sort: —
. “If I were comrade Scullin,
I’d seize the mines,” said Lang.
“For the Commonwealth Constitution
1 would not care a hang.
Blow the Commonwealth Constitution!”
The man from Auburn cried.
“Two can play at that game,”
Sarcastic Scullin replied.
“You blow the Constitution,
And the curse any influence lacks.
But the Constitution blew you to ribbons,
When you tried on your newspaper tax.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.D.R.: Jokes creak at every joint; drawings
better, but linework needs simplifying... .P.G.A.:
That chestnut again!... .K.G.: Badly done....
C.T.P.: No room for the lady sleeping it 0ff....
L. J.: You know little about hodcarriers and less
about art....R.N.: Hanging in our gallery of
horrible examples... .A. 5.8.: Don’t want the infuri-
ated soil-tickler. .. .G.T.: Might do as tail-pieces for
fifth-class book of fairy tales... .W.A.: “Colored
pictures of ‘Sunset on the Sahara’ ” ? No, thank
y0u.... J.M.C.: The brat has two right hands
T.E.: We lost, count of its faults.


9
tbhjhbjhķ
c 9n /flood
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.
m
i.
. 11 ill
ws.A
■bBII
MR
n ■ <
■
HF
J
m
m
m
m
i
I—n
■I
ij
SRI ■
in
ft
s' •


The Bulletin
Vol. 51.—N0. 2604.
January 8, 1930.
DISGRACED!
Affecting scene when the great movie magnate learns that his new million-dollar spectacle has cost only nine hundred and ninety-nine thousand.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the While Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
21k George Street, Sydney; Box 252188.
Victoria : llk-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 2J/9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London: 86 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 Jjs.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
8 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: koz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional-J/oz., id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: l/oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED page LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
LOOKING BACK ON THE WAR—
By Cecil Mann . . .. .. .. 2
IS SHAW A DRAMATIST?—
By Wallace Nelson .. .. .. 2, 5
JAMES SCOBIE AND THE TURF .. .. 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON .. ..7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
POLITICS AND THE COURTS. . . . . . 8
WHY WORK WHEN YOU CAN ARGUE ? . . 8
GIVE THE- MALLEE FARMERS THEIR
LAND! By Janies Edmond . . 8
WE DON’T WANT PARTISAN GOVERNORS.. 8
WHAT NOTE INFLATION DID IN GERMANY 8
IS THE GREYCLIFFE-TAHITI FINDING
RIGHT? .. ..9
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 9
POLITICAL POINTS (with cartoon by Coulter). . 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) . . .. 11, 12
PERSONAL (with caricatures) . . . . .. 13
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 14, 16
DALGETY AND CO 14
HENRY JONES CO-OPERATIVE .. ..14
KANDOS CEMENT AND THE CEMENT
MERGER 14
POVERTY POINT 17
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 17
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) y .. ..18
“New Moon,” Her Majesty’s, Sydney .. .. 18
“Journey’s End,” Criterion, Sydney . . . . 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with four drawings) 19, 20
MAN ON THE LAND 22, 25
A QUEENSLAND SHEEPMAN’S FIGURES . . 22
BASIC PHOSPHATE 22
THE EGG INDUSTRY 22
QUESTIONS ANSWERED 25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT 26
SMOKE-OH (with three drawings) .. .. 28
PEN AND PICTURE 31
NEWEST TALKIES 31
WHO IS “THE BULLETIN’S” OLDEST
CONTRIBUTOR? 31
SPORTING (illustrated) 35, 37, 39
A.J.C. WARWICK FARM 39
ASPENDALE RACES 39
SHEFFIELD SHIELD CRICKET .< ..39
FINAL RUGBY LEAGUE TEST (ENG.) .. 39
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 40
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 42
THE LATEST IN FEMALE FIGURES .. 42
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 43
“MERRY CHRISTMAS!” .. ..44, 45, 46
TWO COMPLETE SHORT STORIES—
“THE DEAD HORSE,” by J. H. M. Abbott, 47, 49
“THE MESSAGE,” by S. Stedman .. 49, 50
VERSE —By R. Burns, M. Forrest, Elsie
Cole .. .. .. .. .. 46, 50
Next Week.
“CAN WE SAVE THE THEATRE?”
“GREATER LOVE,” by Alys Brown. This tale
gives you a more intimate picture of the domestic
life of the Papuan woman than any short story
ever hitherto printed.
“THE BOOYA,” by lon Idriess; a story of thrilling
adventure and mystery.
JANUARY 29.
“BULLETIN” JUBILEE NUMBER.
Extra of this Great Souvenir Production
should be ordered at once. It will not be possible
to publish a second edition.
It will contain a miniature reproduction of the
entire First Number and portraits and drawings of
all the great men who have ever contributed to
these pages.
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 8, 1930.
THE POLITCIAN IN THE
COURTS.
Great things were expected of arbitration,
chiefly that it would diminish if not abolish
strikes and remove the ruinous element of
uncertainty from industry. The discovery
was soon made that it was not doing either.
In the Commonwealth sphere the New Pro-
tection and the Trade Marks Act were
declared invalid, and the futility of the
Federal Arbitration Court became a subject
for derision; Justice Higgins himself com-
pared it to “a Serbonian bog.” The nation’s
master proved to be the High Court in its
capacity of interpreter of the Constitution,
and it happened that it always gave
majority verdicts for the “narrow” or State
Rights view.
Employers adapted themselves to the
situation as best they could, and carried
on on the assumption that Federal arbitra-
tion was a costly farce. Then war came,
with its access of national sentiment, and
the original High Court Judges began to
die off. The new appointees were known
to favor the “broad” or national method
of interpreting the Constitution—that,
indeed, was amongst their qualifications,
The whole of the Griffith-Barton-O’Connor
decisions soon went by the board. In the
Railway Servants case (1920) the Court
decided by four to one that the Federal
Arbitration Court had power even to
fix the wages of State railway employees.
The A.S.E. case confirmed this ruling a year
later, and in 1925 came the decision (follow-
ing the passing of the Judiciary Act) that
litigants could not go to the Privy Council
from the High Court without a High Court
certificate. Inside a decade the Arbitration
Court had thus passed from impotence to
almost complete autocracy.
During all this time unionism had been
growing more and more political. Trades
Halls and some of the biggest unions had
come under the control of men who knew
little about industrialism—who in some
cases had never been workers—but who
knew a good deal about politics, and the
war-born art of hate-propaganda. Their
method was to start an inter-State strike,
or a strike inside a State that might be
made inter-State, and rely on the all-power-
ful Federal Arbitration Court to “stand by
the proletariat.”
The position is now as menacing to Aus-
tralia and Australian industry as anything
could be. Uncertainty is the essence of it.
A Labor Ministry is in power and a Federal
judgeship has become vacant. If an
appointment is decided upon it is practi-
cally certain to be made not wholly on the
candidate’s ability or character, but largely
on his political and industrial convictions,
as disclosed in those lawsuits where a Labor
Bar regularly opposes an anti-Labor one.
And the same in the State courts.
Another and even more nationally cal-
amitous phenomenon has arisen from this
rotten state of affairs; the withdrawal from
the coal case of the Federal Chief Justice
was a sign of it. He left the Bench because
of a reflection on his impartiality by the
miners’ leading counsel. If he had stayed,
and his finding had been unfavorable to
the miners, it would certainly have been
attacked as biased by politicians and union
organisers all over Australia, and the High
Court, of which he is president, would have
been the chief sufferer. Other Judges have
not been so concerned to keep their courts
out of politics. Mr. Piddington has blamed
Parliament for its restrictions on his powers
to improve the workers’ lot, and he is
usually ready to engage in a controversy
with N. S. Wales Ministers. Judge Beeby’s
recent order that the Northern mines
should re-open at the rate of wages pre-
vailing 10 months ago had the inevitable
effect of bringing him into the middle of
the politico-industrial row which is embitter-
ing all classes. Judge Lukin has been burnt
in effigy by dissatisfied unionists. And
the charges of prejudice, class-feeling
or worse are no longer confined to industrial
Judges. When Judge Curlewis sentenced
a Sydney basher to a well-deserved 12
years the other day, prominent union
leaders suggested that he should be discip-
lined, as a victimiser of the working class,
when Labor came back to power in N. S.
Wales.
As politics and union leadership become
more and more the goals of adventurers,
the tendency to drag Judges into political
and industrial rows must increase. It is
happening already. The effect is to fill the
benches increasingly with boss-nominated
Judges, and to keep the best men—men who
are very sensitive about their honor—
at the Bar. In other words, to send one of
the few institutions which still enjoy high
prestige, namely the judiciary, the way Par-
liaments have gone. No doubt there are
other influences at work; but largely it is
the price Australia is paying for its mistake
in giving the status of Judges to men
whose work can never be judicial.
WHY WORK WHEN YOU CAN
ARGUE?
The most universally accepted statement
in Australia, bar one, is that something is
amiss in our method of government, with
its parties, its party tyrannies, its party
trickeries, and especially its pre-selection
dodges. Maybe we expect too much.
In some of the Swiss cantons every
Federal voter is a State member,
and the whole crowd, or as many
as are equal to the effort, meet
annually in the open air and legislate in
purely State affairs. That is the only genu-
ine “government by the people,” and it
works —iff sufficiently small places and in
sufficiently small matters. An elected legis-
lature, no matter how much care is taken
with the election, only represents a majority,
and only gives satisfaction to the majority
—if it contrives to do that, which seldom
happens long and sometimes doesn’t happen
at all. It ought to represent and give
satisfaction to all, but the problem of a law-
making body which, if it does anything
or even if it does nothing, will possess the
confidence of the Church and the push,
or even the importer and the manufacturer,
is difficult. The method by which our
majority chooses its representatives shrieks
for improvement, especially in the matter
of pre-selection. All pre-selected candidates
should be disqualified for life unless it can
be shown that they weren’t parties to the
crime. But even then the majority curse
would remain.
Things being admittedly in need of repair,
there is a tendency to look abroad for a
bright and shining example, and to import
a system which doesn’t need repair. The
loudest and most concentrated clamor is for
the adoption of the Russian method, by
which a city elector counts for five times
as much as an agricultural elector, the
Ministry creates itself, and political oppo-
nents oppose at their own risk. A more
respectable but less powerful agitation is
for an imitation of the Swiss plan of an
Elective Cabinet located outside Parlia-
ment. This has a long and successful career
to recommend it; but there isn’t a semb-
lance of permanence about the arrangement
unless the new Scullin majority feels in-
clined to re-elect the Ministry created in
the time of the outgoing Bruce majority,
and that isn’t likely. In addition there is
a limited desire to imitate Mussolini,
whose star has been in the ascendant for
seven years—and ought to have been seeing
that this journalistic genius is Prime Mini-
ster, Secretary of State, Minister of Foreign
Affairs, Minister of the Interior, Minister
of War, Minister of the Navy, Minister of
Aeronautics, Minister of the Colonies and
Minister of Corporations. According to his
latest Consti'ution, the Lower House has
been reduced to 400 members (it was pre-
viously 560) who must be at least 25 years
of age. There are 400 candidates. Nomi-
nations may be made by certain “national
syndicate confederations,” by “associations
of a national character,” and by certain
favored persons, but not by Tom, Dick and
Harry roaming at large. The Great Fascist
Council boils down the applicants to 400,
and the nation, voting as one constituency,
has to accept or reject the lot. The Con-
stitution is only 20 months old, so nobody
has accepted or rejected much so far. The
Senate remains the same old aristocratic
body of princes and wealthy life nominees.
In 1925 the potent dictator established single-
member electorates, and in 1928 he went
to the other extreme as already mentioned.
As a stern, almost ferocious suppressor of
the Langs and Gardens of his native land,
Mussolini has a great record, and as a
manager of railways and public works he
stands high. But as the maker of a workable
and lasting political system he is still on
trial. He seems to have a Constitution in
each pocket and a spare one in his hat;
but his belief in the pre-selection of can-
didates almost amounts to bigotry.
Australia doesn’t really need to borrow
anybody’s Constitution, unless it can find
one which provides for the permanent
political disqualification of criminals and of
politicians who habitually use nasty lan-
guage. It might be a thousand times better
if it would leave off imitating itself. Each
Premier is a servile copy of his predecessor
in his desire to borrow all he can get, on
any pretence which will pass muster. The
whole continent contains only one party
and that is the Big Loan Party, though
there are subdivisions enough and to spare.
It might adopt the wild-beast policy of
Russia and be worse. It might try the
conservative methods of Switzerland or the
strenuous and flamboyant ones of the gor-
geous Italian dictator and be no better.
There is no bankruptcy-proof Constitution.
Salvation cannot be bought with a form of
government. But a nation, like an indi-
vidual, can make the pursuit of some other
system, some other formula, a fine excuse
for selfishness and laziness and cowardice.
Argument of a sort is so much easier than
work.
RENT SLAVES ON THE LAND.
The Victorian partial wheat-famine, which
is a local disaster up in the north-western
corner, but bad enough all the same, has
evoked plenty of humanitarian suggestions,
but one, in my opinion, has been less con-
spicuous than it should be. It is that the
State should cancel its contracts with the
small or meditim men in the Mallee coun-
try, or the greater part of it, and present
them with a freehold title apiece right off.
Then the recipient would have something
to pawn, or to sell if he preferred to clear
out. The concession would be valueless to
the man who has already paid off his obli-
gations to the State, but he is rare, and in
the worst region, which is the most northern
north-west, I don’t think he exists.
It might be enacted that in the case of
a person who had received this assistance,
no time-payment bargain should hold good.
This would, of course, not cover credit given
for necessaries. Without that enactment
an ugly rush would set in to sell to the en-
franchised settlers pianos, gramophones,
pictures, imaginary estate in the main streets
of Melbourne, and shares of all sorts. To
prevent the State’s benevolence falling
among thieves, it could simply be enacted
that the recipient could stop paying instal-
ments at any time, and keep the gramo-
phone.
This seems more promising than the flota-
tion of loans for public works even if
loans could be procured, or the grant of a
temporary moratorium against private
creditors. A permanent moratorium against
the public creditor would be cheaper.
Victorian lands are sorted out for selec-
tion as first, second, third and fourth class,
and there is a lower depth described as 4a.
In the Mallee country (one district out of
the eight which comprise the State) there
were (December 31, 1927) 4,425,369 acres
of land which hadn’t even got so far as
being classified— 4a or otherwise. This
represented about 39 per cent, of the Vic-
torian land still available for the struggling
settler to struggle on. The rest is mostly
in the picturesque but unpromising east,
where there are 87 rocky peaks between
4000 ft. and 6500 ft. in height, and many
more not yet measured, but about which
the worst is suspected. Considering that
the Mallee has been noted, so far as records
go, for producing poorer wheat crops (often
very much poorer) per acre than all the
other sections, there is an atmosphere of
4a surrounding a lot of this available estate.
Yet the Government is stingy, even miserly,
about parting with the property. A person
with a craving for the untrammelled agri-
cultural life may take up on perpetual lease
640 acres of good Mallee land, as good
land goes thereabouts (this is the third con-
secutive year of drought), or 4000 acres
of the worst species, and the rent is II
per cent, of the value annually. But the
existence of any value is sometimes a
matter of doubt, and the comparative scrap
is subject to re-valuation every 10 years,
with no limitation as to the rise. Conse-
quently the agriculturist has nothing that
he can pawn or sell, and the passing of
years brings him no more freedom. This
craze for preserving the relations of land-
lord and rent-slave is a feature in North
Australia, Central Australia and the Federal
Capital Territory, and not one of these
places is booming beyond the dreams of
avarice.
It is also allowable to purchase similar
areas in the Mallee, paying the same price,
spread over 20 or 40 years, as in other
parts of the State. But this is an unlucky
part of the State. In the driest and most
remote of the four counties the area under
wheat was increased or boomed from 1491
acres in 1924 to 116,028 in 1928. The deed
was considered an agricultural triumph, but
the best-advertised crops since the boom
are droughts and thin horses. It would save
a good deal of money if various and expen-
sive forms of relief were condensed, both
in the case of the long-distance purchaser
and the eternal leaseholder, into a present
of the title-deeds of the farm, with a
blessing thrown in. As for the four million-
odd acres which are still in a wild con-
dition, it would be best to think out some
equitable scheme of giving them away like-
wise, or at least the second, third, fourth
and 4a classes, with due regard to the pre-
vention of monster estates, and even more
essentially of insufficient estates.
Relief boils down to a matter of giving
away something, and if Victoria has any-
thing cheaper to give away than Mallee
lands, and the county of Millewa in par-
ticular, I don’t know what it is. The
amount at stake isn’t large. The whole
State produces about £400,000 of annual
land revenue (sales and rent), and a good
deal of this goes in office expenses. Not
much comes from the Mallee, and not
nearly enough to provide relief for farmers
without capital when times are more lean
than usual.
JAMES EDMOND.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
We Don’t Want Partisan Governors.
The appointment of an Australian as Gov-
ernor-General is becoming a live question,
and there are hopes that it may be possible
to have Lord Stonehaven’s appointment
renewed for a year as a means to this end.
Inside the year it is considered possible to
get the necessary legislation passed, and
perhaps assented to, so that the first local
appointment may be made while the present
Government is still in office.
So far as appears, there isn’t, however,
the slightest idea of having the G.-G.
elected by the people, after the manner of
the President and State Governors of the
United States, and no one has said any-
thing about holding a referendum so that
the nation may say if it wants the right
to elect its G.-G. The scheme is that the
Ministry of the hour should select the
President or Viceroy, and that if Labor
has the chance the first man will be a sturdy
partisan and succeeding men the same
whenever possible. So the pioneer Labor
G.-G. may survive to be a stumbling-block
and a thorn in the flesh to subsequent non-
Labor Ministries, for if he shed his strictly
partisan attitude it might destroy his stand-
ing with the party which created him.
The appointment of a President (that
would be virtually the position) for a fixed
term, by whatever crowd happened to be
in office for a wholly unfixed term, would
be a grotesquely retrograde and utterly,
undemocratic step; yet it is certainly the
purpose in view. A feeling in favor of
elective Australian Governors does exist;
but unless a referendum is taken on the
subject no one can say whether it is. a
widespread sentiment or a matter of mild
indifference. It is, on the other hand,
wholly safe to say that there is no real
feeling at all in favor of non-elective Aus-
tralian Governors.
4
“A Large Increase in the Note Issue.”
An inflated note issue is a matter always
liable to turn up while Labor is in office,
so it is interesting to graze in the field of "
experience, and consider how the thing has
worked elsewhere in recent times.
During the Great War the Hun didn’t
increase taxes as others did and meet as .
much as possible of the bloodshed expenses
out of revenue. He reduced imposts
instead, and the people were told that the
war was the biggest goldmine in history,,
and that when the Allies were conquered
the dividend would be past counting. Some,
sample dividends were imposed on Russia
and Roumania, which were conquered, but


Second “Bulletin” Novel Competition
First Prize, £400; Second, £250; Third, £lOO.
The second of “The Bulletin’s” Novel Competitions closed on Dec. 31, and it
is gratifying to report that there has been again a very handsome response.
No less than 275 entries have been received.
Many competitors responded to “The Bulletin’s” invitation to lodge their
entries early, so that already some progress has been made with the
stupendous job of reading and judging this huge body of literature. Mr.
T. B. Clegg, who was chairman of the Board of Judges in the First Competi-
tion, is filling the same office this time, and he has been occupied continuously
during the past 10 weeks in reading the entries. He has now been joined
by the other jjudges; as on the previous occasion, no entry will be discarded
unless two judges agree thereto. If either has any doubt the entry goes on to
a third. Mr. W. E. Fitz Henry is again the competition secretary.
As far as the judges have gone, they report that there is a larger proportion
of printable stories than in the first competition; and some are of high merit.
The preliminary reading will, it is expected, be completed by the middle of
March, and the prize-winners should be announced early in April.
KEEPING THE FOUNT OF JUSTICE CLEAN.
’ERBERT: “Well, what about it. ’Orace?”
’ORACE: “Yes, I’d better have a cut at it. I suppose all you’ve gotta do is to find out that the blokes what gave you the job are always right.”
they were poor countries and couldn’t be
squeezed as France and Britain were to be.
When the war ended the wrong way Ger-
many had a heap of debt abroad, as Aus-
tralia has, and foreigners refused it loans,
which they may do to us if they doubt
the security very much. The confused
Governments which straggled through the
early post-war times didn’t convince the
people that hard work and big production
were the only expedients. Instead they
organised a passive industrial resistance, or
exaggerated coal strike, by way of protest
in some of the territory occupied by the
Allies, and reduced production. Then “a
large increase in the note issue” com-
menced, and the value of the note went
down as the quantity went up.
In ordinary times about 20 paper marks
would buy a British sovereign, but in Janu-
ary, 1923, when inflation had fairly com-
menced, it took 48,000 paper marks to pur-
chase the same coin. Towards the end of
the year the price had risen to 48,000,000
marks. The Government didn’t exactly
print a thousand or ten thousand notes
where one note had grown before. It was
easier to produce a note with an extra “0”
or “00” or “000” added to the figures. That
made “a large increase in the note issue”
with the least trouble.
The day when an extra “0” was added
to the figure on the note was a sort of
shelf or landing-place. For a moment the
community knew where it stood. In be-
tween additional “o’s,” values were largely
speculative. It was a time of abnormal
business, chiefly retail. If a toiler got his
wages on Friday, it was his and his frau’s
desire to invest them all in useful or sale-
able goods on or before Saturday, lest they
should buy only half as much goods by
Monday.
In the end the Government paid off its
internal debt with paper worth a few golden
coins, thus reducing its liability from 661,076
million marks to 2895 millions, which wasn’t
much more than half what it owed before
the war. The war debt was really repudi-
ated, and a large part of the pre-war debt
for public works and the like as well; and
the people’s savings invested in bonds, per
medium of savings banks or otherwise, went
up in smoke by the same process. If it had
been possible to pay off external liabilities
with similar currency things would have
been pleasant, but it wasn’t possible. It
wasn’t even possible to repudiate them as
Russia did, Russia being inaccessible and
too poor under the Communist regime to
be worth bailiffing.
After that a new currency (not inflated,
and backed by a cash reserve) was intro-
duced. The industrial passive resistance
was called off. Revolutionary agitation
died down, and hard work was turned to
again.
«
Is a Uniform Gauge Vital?
Dear Bulletin, —-“Roleystone” answers
the question in the negative, with sundry
lemarkable reasons and explanations
attached (B. 25/12/’29). One of them is
that a unified gauge “looks obsolete.” Why
or how or in what particular place it looks
obsolete, or when it began to do so, he
aoesnt say. He further says that “any
piemature attempt at gauge unification
might be a national calamity,” yet he ne-
glects to say whether the disaster will take
the form of disease or internal strife or
anything else in particular, nor does he
suspect any date up to which a uniform
gauge will be a reckless proposition and
after which it won’t. He mentions no
country with a uniform gauge which finds
it premature and obsolete, though a sample
would be thankfully received.
“Roleystone” says that unification has
waited 30 years for a show, and “now that
it has attracted attention” it had better
be allowed to rest for a while. The matter
really attracted attention 80 years ago,
when a bargain was arrived at by which
the 4ft. 8-]in. gauge was fixed for Victoria,
South Aus. and N. S. Wales (including
Queensland and the Northern Territory),
thus showing that uniformity was a matter
under consideration at a very early date.
The N. S. Wales authorities, at the instiga-
tion of an engineer who deserves a monu-
ment with the nation’s hatred and contempt
inscribed on it in large letters, broke the
pact and forced the sft. 3in. contraption
on their neighbors, and later (too late, in
fact) endeavored to force them back
again to the original bargain, and after that
the problem slept for a while. But it has
been alive, in the moderate Australian way,
ever since the broken gauges met on the
Victorian border 46 years ago, and on the
Queensland border 41 years ago.
When “Roleystone” suggests that Aus-
tralia should let the matter slide for a
while, he is far from explicit. Is it inten-
ded that the country should postpone rail-
way construction till some decision is
reached? Or is it proposed that the con-
struction of mixed gauges with expensive
loan money shall continue at the usual
pace, to make the position worse every day?
When the Federal Government doesn’t
even stick to a single gauge itself the
position is pretty bad.
Australia added £91,000,000 to its invest-
ment in mixed lines and equipment in 11
recent years, and got no return except that
the loss in 1928 was about £3,000,000 more
than in 1918. The establishment of a uniform
gauge on the cheap and serviceable 3ft. 6in.
basis would furnish employment and a
chance of spending money in four States
just as new undertakings do. And there
would be a definite return in the way of
economy for the expenditure when the job
was finished, for the wastefulness of the
mixed system is beyond question. That
was the reason why Britain and the United
States were at such pains to eliminate their
confused huddle of railway measurements.
Whether the return would be sufficient
would depend on the economy and effici-
ency with which the work was done, but
there would be a return, and many, it
might be safe to say most, of the stumpy
little extensions which go into a State loan
works programme nowadays yield less than
none.
If Australia could concentrate for a
while on providing itself with better rail-
ways instead of with more railways it
should be to the general advantage. More
railways mean more rolling stock, more
employees and more repairs, while unifica-
tion of gauge would lead to a saving on the
first and second items and no increase on
the third, —Yours, J. E.
■ ♦
The Greycliffe-Tahiti Collision.
“Fiat Justitia” takes another view:—
“X.N.0.,” commenting on Mr. Justice
Halse Rogers’s finding, shows either bias or
lack of knowledge (B. l/l/’3O).
(1) The judgment of Mr. Justice Halse
Rogers was not, as asserted, that the Grey-
cliffe was to blame, with contributory negli-
gence on the part of the Tahiti; but the
opposite.
(2) The analogy of the motorist is un-
fortunate, as an overtaking driver must give
a warning signal and wait for a sign from
the driver ahead before he attempts to pass.
The fact that the Tahiti gave no warning of
her approach was only a minor reason why
blame was attached to her.
(3) Ilis Honor found that she was in
fault principally because, having broken the
speed regulations of the port, her navigators
placed her in such a position that the slight-
est deviation from her course on the part
of the overtaken vessel must inevitably pro-
duce disaster. It is not necessary for me
to dwell on the fact that on neither of the
two occasions on which the Tahiti altered her
course did she see fit to give the sound
signal called for by the Regulations for Pre-
venting Collision at Sea, as this is only
one of her many breaches of Maritime Law.
(4) Finally, I would point out that the
only Court of Seamen which has adjudicated
on the matter did settle it, as briefly as
the mass of evidoncc admitted in Mr. Justice
Campbell’s court allowed, by clearing the
Greycliffe and finding the Tahiti, as an over-
taking vessel, entirely to blame; and I ven-
ture to assert that this verdict is much more
in accordance with facts, than the later one.
Colored Tabs and Pacifism.
In pursuit of his determination to “effect
a saving of £lBO,OOO this financial year”
by disbanding the compulsory trainees, the
Minister of Defence has been visiting the
Commonwealth Clothing Factory in Mel-
bourne to arrange for the making of the
new militia uniforms. These, it is an-
nounced, will be as smart as money can
make them. “A diversity of styles” is pro-
posed, and the Ministerial fancy runs to
“colored tabs and piping, gorget patches, a
shaped tunic and a Glengarry cap,” while
the Australian Scottish are to have “a
uniform based on those of the kilted regi-
ments of the British Army”—one incor-
porating all the tartans, perhaps. It is a
queer sort of economy to scrap the service-
able CM.F. uniform for these gorgeous
outfits, but the Minister insists that £lBO,OOO
will be “saved” by the end of June. And
“Texas” Green is an honorable man.
Meanwhile the recruiting campaign is of
the most languid description, and there is
an admitted shortage of candidates for the
new uniforms. The technical units are fill-
ing up, but “more difficulty,” the Minister
acknowledges, “will be experienced in
obtaining full rosters for the infantry bat-
talions.” He prophesied “brisker enlist-
ments after the holidays.” This is not very
encouraging to those who believe that Aus-
tralia must have a good army, but it is
doubtless satisfactory to the pacifist gentry.
And the pacifists are numerous and vocal.
They are strong in Labor-controlled muni-
cipal councils like those of Fitzroy and
Richmond, which have denounced even
voluntary training. They also form no in-
considerable squad of the Labor party in
the House of Reps., • as witness the follow-
ing remarkable utterances during the recent
session:—
W. J. Long: “Hon members opposite
cheered the boys who left Australia to go
abroad on war service. I did not, beeause
I do not believe in war. The policy of this
Government in abolishing compulsory mili-
tary training will tend to abolish war.”
A. Lewis: “My ideal is the complete dis-
armament of all the nations, and I am
prepared to show my sincerity by advocating
the complete disarming of this country. I
shall do my best to get my party to adopt and
follow that course with regal’d to what we
call the defence of Australia.”
R. A. Crouch: “I am against both com-
pulsory training and the proposed voluntary
training, because the time for wars has
absolutely passed.... We should place our
trust in the justice and honor of the world.”
D. Cameron: “Do you think it is wrong
to make any provision for the defence of
this country?”
Crouch: “I do.”
It is hard for people to believe that the
Government is in earnest about its new
army when Labor bodies and members
parade this white-flaggism unrebuked, and
when Ministers carefully abstain from going
on the platform to justify the disbandment
of the compulsory units and help voluntary
recruiting—though it is the least they
could do.


ROAD WORTHINESS
Road worthy cars are developed essentially by strenuous road tests,
where every-day conditions intensified a hundred tunes, prove the
road worthiness of cars and their accessories.
And in the five great 1929 tests* of supreme road worthiness and
performance, all the winners used Standard Shell Oil and Spirit.
*l. Ulster Tourist Trophy. 4. Le Mans Grand Prix.
2. Dublin Grand Prix. 5. Junior Car Club Double 12 hours.
3. Brooklands Automobile Racing Club.
SHELL
MOTOR OIL
AND SPIRIT
aS&P'll'T/ 1 '
5923
POLITICAL
POINTS
A proposal to
come before the
Federal Labor cau-
cus is that all ves-
sels employed in the
Australian trade
shall be built in Aus-
tralia. This at least
accords with the
principle that less
importing is the sure
road to more work.
But imports of ships
during 1928-29 were
valued at £884,150,
whereas those of
motor-vehicles and
parts were recorded
as costing
£13,812,480; and
ships are almost all
British products,
while motors are to
an enormous extent
American. So if all
motor-vehicles used
in Australia had to
be made here, it
would mean nearly £13,000,000 worth more
work per annum than would be provided by
the embargo on the importation of ships.
Moreover, motor-building can be conducted
in all manner of places, while shipbuilding
is a purely coastal job.
Former Premier Storey’s widow, who died
recently, received £4OO p.a. from the State.
Presumably portion of the allowance will be
continued to the children, but the rest might
very well be distributed among the families
of Henry Parkes and John Robertson, who
headed five N.S.W. Governments apiece. The
grant in each of these cases is only £lOO p.a.
In the rush to get the estimates through
before Christmas, the Hogan Government
(Tie ) forgot to provide for the State-wide
prohibition poll. The thing is expected to cost
between £20.000 and £25,000, but the N.S.W.
referendum in 1928 ran away with £54,9b2,
the estimate being £40,000. Authorities
argue that under Sec. 319 of the Act the
expense of the poll may be debited to the
Liquor Licensing Fund, and perhaps Bung
wouldn’t object. He is getting resigned to
raids on that fund.
Maoriland’s first by-election .since the
change of Government resulted in Hutt, a
Liberal preserve for 30 years, being cap-
tured by the Laborites. They put up young
Walter Nash, their national secretary who
polled 5047 votes, the Government candidate,
Kerr, getting 4835, and the Reform nominee,
Johnston, 2570. Preferential voting would
have dished Nash, but Maoriland clings to
the first-past-the-post system.
During the first nine months of 1929 Aus-
tralia bought from the United States
£23,000,000 worth of goods, and Uncle
Hoover bought very little in return. He
insisted on being paid the balance in cash,
and told Australia to borrow what cash it
was short from the Old Man in London. He
also says that Australia, with less than the
population of London or New York, is
Uncle’s seventh-best customer. It is . 1 ! 1
addition the second-best customer for British
products. In fact, it is the blankth-best
customer for more outside goods than it
can afford, and not nearly so good a cus-
tomer to its own people as it ought to be.
Senator Borah, a strong prohibitionist,
sadly reports that “open saloons are running
throughout the United States.” Australians
can understand how the gentleman feels. Bet-
ting on horse-races is banned in the six
States, except on racecourses; yet the s.p.
betting-shop flourishes everywhere s It is the
old story of legislation in advance of public
opinion. Prohibition is a farce in America.
The anti-gambling laws are a joke in Aus-
tralia.
The C.M.F. having been Scullidored, it is
the R.A N.’s turn now, and the Jervis Bay
Naval College is to be scrapped for a start.
The excuse is that it costs £lOOO per year to
educate the embryo officer. Some of this
will still go on, as the buildings and plant
are not saleable, nor can they be adapted
for any other purpose. And the system is
notably efficient; the Jervis Bay graduate
has proved himself equal to the best, and
Australia gets his services for 12 years at
a modest salary, beginning at 11s. a day.
The Government which alleges that Jervis
THE RELAY RACE.
“Here, take it, you poor kid!”
Bay is a sink for money recently found
another million for State speedways, making
three millions for the year.
The Soviet bought a way back into Britain
by swearing to abstain from propaganda,
and conduct its diplomacy decently. One
of the first evidences is the establishment in
London of a Communist paper, which pub-
lishes messages from Moscow urging the
workers to exterminate the Governments of
MacDonald and Seullin, as agencies of the
capitalist, and opponents of the Anglo-Aus-
tralian revolution. A section of the press
urges MacDonald to take this and similar
doings in a meek spirit. One paper im-
plores him to remember that “the Soviet
can’t be expected to grow wings in a night ”
But there is no reason why it should be
allowed to * grow horns, hoofs and a tail
in a forenoon.
N. S. Wales dropped a load at the begin-
ning of 1930; the rural basic wage, which
Judge “Piddo” enacted without hearing any
evidence, disappeared. While it lasted it
was a serious offence to employ anybody on
a rural job except at an unprecedentedly
liberal rate. If this was unobtainable, per-
haps because the farmer had a difficulty
about his own basic earnings, the alternatives
were to starve or to steal. Still Mr. Pid-
dington’s faith in himself never faltered.
In some quarters the N.S.W. coal stop-
page is expected to drag on for another year
at least, and the lawyers won’t mind if it
does. What the Hibble inquiry cost hasn’t
been divulged, but the unfinished Coal Com-
mission has mopped up nearly £19,000,
mostly in costs, and the appeal against
Judge Beeby’s decision promises even richer
prizes. The show opened with seven bar-
risters, instructed by half a dozen solicitors,
and representing four sets of clients. Costs
are said to have begun at £5OO per sitting.
Chief Justice Knox retired from the matter
after a few days, and handed it over to
Justice Rich. Both Judges offered to sit
early and late in order to expedite things,
and each said or hinted that no one save
himself seemed in any hurry.
Premier Hogan expects to get £125,000
p.a. from the tote if the bill goes through
next session. It is an absurdly low esti-
mate considering the Westralian receipts
last year (£57,899 from a population of
410,000, which does little racing compared
with Victoria’s 1,800,000), nor is it true,
as Hogan seems to imagine, that expensive
buildings and machinery are necessary be-
fore revenue comes rolling in. At Moore-
field, one of the minor Sydney courses, the
paddock “machine” is a mere shed in which
the tickets are rubber-stamped by girls.
An outfit like that could be got ready at
Flemington or Caulfield in 48 hours. And in
the last recorded year the N.S.W. Govern-
ment drew £7830 from the Moorefield tote.
Gandhi, the leader of the Indian swara-
jists, has induced a so-called “National Con-
gress” to declare a boycott of the Leg. Coun-
cils by way of emphasising the demand for
independence. Gandhi lately turned up at a
conference clad in nothing but a loincloth,
although the temperature was below freezing-
point. His explanation was that he wished
to demonstrate India’s ability to manufac-
ture its own requirements. The moral would
have been more convincing if he had thrown
in singlet, shirt, boots, socks, coat and trous-
ers, all home-made, like Customs Minister
Fenton’s.
There are about 30 languages in Gandhi’s
country, as well as many creeds. And
there are some 200 million people who
worship many gods, including one with
five heads, and don’t eat cows; and about
70 million people of rather better fighting
quality who worship one god, and hate
idolaters, and eat cows; and about 700
princes who run their 700 States with more
or less fatherly guidance from the white man
and have no great desire to be ruled or
delivered by Gandhi. If these people were
set free, and began in time to settle, their
differences in their own way, they, could
get at each other more easily than in olden
days by reason of the railways and roads
that the white man has made. Also some of
them might get at Gandhi.
A few decently-paid Commonwealth billets
become vacant shortly, including those of a
High Commissioner in London, a Public
Service Arbitrator, a film censor and (if
the' British Government can be induced to
hand over the right of appointment) a
Governor-General. And a seat on the High
Court Bench has been empty for quite a
while. Competition is already keen, and the
queue outside the early door grows hourly.
As regards the High Commissionership it
might be profitable to give preference to a
politician whose wife makes a point of
importing her outer covering from Paris.
Then the remittance for the lady’s garniture
would come out of the Commissioner’s salary,
which has to be remitted anyhow, instead of
beinp' an extra. Such an appointment would
improve the balance of trade.
The past year was rather a poor one for
raising loans abroad to pay for things which
help to keep our own Australians unem-
ployed, so we started spending the Common-
wealth Bank’s gold reserve (the security
for the note issue) to meet bills for motor-
cars, feminine finery and the like. During
1929 the bank’s supply of gold, here and in
London, fell from £40,804,000 to £27,910,000,
so the year’s output of gold (about
£2,000,000) was used up and £13,000,000
besides. At the present pace the choice lies
between prohibition of unnecessary imports
and a crisis of a sort which Australia
hasn’t yet met.
Incredible remark attributed to .S. M.
Bruce by a witness in the appeal against the
Beeby coal decision :
We “shot” poor old Holloway for £5O, and that
didn’t settle the timber dispute. If we “shoot”
John Brown for £lOOO
it won’t settle the coal
dispute.
Bruce may have said
that, though Mr.
Holloway was legally
penalised to the ex-
tent of £5O sterling,
the result was dis-
appointing and not
commensurate with
the effort; but it’s
a million to one he
didn’t put it the
other.way. Anyhow,
a much bigger mat-
ter even than the
coal dispute was in-
volved —— the main-
tenance of the law.
And, on the lowest
ground of policy, the
richer and more
powerful the law-
breaker the greater
the need for the
Government to assert
itself.
It has been ruled
by a Supreme Court
Judge in Maoriland
that a union of
wharf-lumpers can-
not legally deny
membership to any
man of good char-
acter and sober
habits who desires
to enrol. The keep-
ing open of union
books is provided for
in the rules of every
Maoriland union re-
gistered under the
Arbitration Act, the
Registrar being very
much on his guard against the creation
of close corporations, but the right of a
union’s officers to exclude an applicant
without giving a reason has not hitherto
been challenged. A claim for damages
against the wharfies’ union for loss
of employment was nevertheless dis-
missed.
The N.S.W. Leg. Assembly having drawn
nation-wide attention to itself by its vile
manners, Premier Collier, of Westralia; has
put in a word for his own Parliament,
claiming that it is free from “objectionable
eruptions.” This is true, and the influence
and example of Collier himself and Opposi-
tion-leader Mitchell are largely respon-
sible. The Opposition leader (Collier was
an excellent type) can do more than any
other member to raise or lower the standard
of Parliamentary manners. If he is the sort
of man who refuses to say gratuitously
offensive things, his followers are very likely
to adopt the same tone. If, on the other
hand, he can’t make a speech without hurl-
ing a string of insults. at opponents, his
associates, or some of them, are pretty
certain to follow his lead. And the other
side will, of course, retaliate.
WINDFALLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Federal Ministers are being deluged with appli-
cations from old friends and new in the Labor move-
ment who are convinced that they possess the
requisite qualifications for highly-paid posts that will
shortly become vacant and others likely to be
created.”
Hark to the din appalling
Of eager voices calling!
What means the fuss?
’Tis obvious.
The plums will soon be falling.
The baskets and the dishes
Connote the urgent wishes
Of hungry coves
Who yearn for loaves
And have their eye on fishes.
It’s running hot the wire is
With vehement inquiries
Re whom they’ll choose
To fill the shoes
That won’t for long be Ryrie’s.
Keen billet-hunters stalk us
And soon will voices raucous
Debate the claims
Of Bill and James
For this and that, in Caucus.
Whatever possie’s
planned, it
Means fifty will de-
mand it—
A surging mob
For ev’ry job,
And only one can
land it.
Hark to the racket
galling
Of bawling, squall-
ing, brawling!
No need, you’ll see,
To shake the tree,
The plums will soon
be falling.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
, “Lex”: Other N. S. Wales Judges have
hot been so touchy with regai-d to sugges-
tions of bias as the Federal Chief Justice
showed himself in the Coal case. The charge
is often made by criminals after conviction.
Digby Grand, one of the murderers of Con-
stable Guilfoyle, abused Judge Rogers for
several minutes before sentence was passed,
and Judge Cuidewis has had his impartiality
challenged by desperadoes neai’ly as often
as he has challenged the English of the des-
peradoes’ defenders. One famous litigant—
John Norton —used habitually to level accu-
sations of bias at the trial Judge with the
object of winning verdicts. In at least one
of his brushes with the law (in which, as
usual, he conducted his own case) practically
the only defence he put up was that he had
written an Open Letter in Truth to ’Sonah.
“Can you trust me to the mercy of such a
man?” John demanded of the jurors. “Will
you, by your verdict, hand me over to the
cruel liands of the official who sits there
ravening for revenge?” Whether this humbug
went down or not it is hard to say, but the
greatest wielder of polysyllables of his genera-
tion got a prompt acquittal.
* & * *
“Fray Benito”: The recent announcement
by the Roman Church that women should
observe the Pauline law of having their
heads covered when entering a church—this
arising out of the modern barehead, Eton-
crop fashion —reminds me. In the long-ago
REALLY MOST DISTRESSING.
“I never really knew until I got a car that profanity was so prevalent.”
“Why, my dear, do you hear much of it on the road?”
“Why, nearly everybody I bump into swears dreadfully.”
I was a minor panjandrum in a South Sea
Island speck which was being missioned by
a Roman fraternity. Matters had gone very
well and easily with the flock, the feminine
section of which never owned a hat in its
life. Then came along the bishop, not long
from France, who complained bitterly be-
cause the local iadies came into the church
with nothing more than their own woolly
mops covering their heads. Next Sunday,
though a heretic, I was an interested spec-
tator at the church, having been given the
oil. The first lady to arrive bowled in wear-
ing a hat which, to my knowledge, had laid
in Billy Hancock’s store for five years. She
was no sooner through with the preliminary
devotions than she threw it through the win-
dow. I counted 40 more ladies coming in
with the hat on and chucking it out for the
next before I went to sleep.
“4803”: A North Sydney man who had
fought all through the Crimean campaign
named his sons respectively Balaclava, Inker-
man, Sebastopol and Cardigan. A daughter
was- christened Alma. On the annivei--
sai-ies of his battles the father used to don
his medals, mobilise his offspring and make
the round of the pubs, where he introduced
the quaintly-named nippers to the company
in the bar.
* * ❖
“Caesar’s Ghost”: My friend H’oratio
Roarer induced a dentist to give him credit
for some new teeth, saying airily, after they
lia<3 been finally fitted, that he would use
them for a bit to see if they were all right.
Recently (18 months had passed) the molar
merchant grew importunate. “My boy,”
said Roarer, “what is the main use for
teeth?” The dentist suggested that it was
eating. “Well,” said Roarer, “times have
been so bad that I’ve not had a chance of
trying them.”
:]: * H*
“Kappa”: Thirty years ago Melbourne
owned a “push” composed exclusively of one-
legged men who fought numerous battles with
the police and with other pushes. Their sole
weapons were their crutches, and with the
sharpened, iron-shod points they inflicted
cruel injuries. At the height of their power
the Crutchies never paid for drinks and
other necessaries. They would invade hotels
and shops and demand what they wanted,
and generally get it. They became such a pest
that a detachment of young and hefty con-
stables was told off specially for the job of
breaking them up. The .T. Hops armed them-
selves with long sticks, which had a better
reach than the Crutchies’ weapons, and
it was not long before most of the push
were in gaol and the others in retirement.
# * * *
“Hayband”: Here’s another" railway-
ticket swindle. The actors were a ticket-
clerk and a porter at Spencer-street (Melb.)
and a collector at Geelong. The porter
omitted to “nip” some of the tickets at
the Spencer-
street entrance.
The collector at
Geelong got
them and fired
them back to the
clerk at Spen-
cer-street, who
sold them again.
An inspector at
Spencer - sti*eet
noticed the
dog’s-eared ap-
pearance of sun-
dry tickets. An
examination of
Geelong ticket sales showed something amiss,
and three vacancies followed.
* * ' * #
" “Theod’oric” : Experience of courts in three
States suggests that Curlewis, J., of N.S.W.,
did not speak a minute too soon about the
condition in which counsel appear in court.
A glance over a typical Bar discovers as
motley a collection of stuff and silk as may
be seen at a gown parade at an Australian
’Varsity: green, spotted, torn, tattered, worn
awry over astounding hues of tweed; occa-
sionally reduced to little more than a button
and frill. Wigs are in no better case. Some
suggest the verminous bird’s-nest affairs
affected by the ladies of Regency days, and
nearly all need a wash and de-greasing.
$ $ He $
“The Hippogryph” : Reports of ghostly
appearances, so unfailing in their recurring
cycle through the pages of the tabloid press,
always recall to me the rise, shine and de-
cline of one of a most effective newspaper
spook. Two provincial daily papers were
scooping one another. One day the Patkiot
stirred the town with a haii’-raising tale of
a suburban ghost that had chased a maiden
home. The Gazette pooh-poohed the report,
but the suburb didn’t; it fell into panic.
Women refused to go out at night, even to
the movies; vigilantes patrolled the ghost’s
reputed haunts; children were kept from
school; the C. 1.8. sent a special investi-
gator from Melbourne—but still the ghost
stalked through the Patriot’s columns de-
spite the gnashing of the Gazette’s scepti-
cal teeth. It was after the third innocent
night-shift worker had been beaten by excited
vigilantes that the local .superintendent of
police took a hand. He sent for the
Patriot's editor, and, fixing him with a
steely official eye, said the ghost of Badger’s-
road had to die or there would be something
doing., with handcuffs in it. The ghost died
that instant.
* * * *
“P.X.”: Not only make your will; keep
it up to date. Lately an old man died in
an eastern State after having been well
looked after for over 25 years by a distant
female relation. His estate consisted almost
wholly of land; and at the time he made his
will, 20-odd years ago, this land was worth
£7OOO. He directed that his nurse should get
£4OOO, to be raised, if necessary, by a mort-
gage on the propei'ty, and that out of this
amount she should pay the probate duty,
keeping the balance. He thought she would
have at least £3500, or half the estate. Be-
tween the time the will was made and the
date of his death the property had trebled in
value, and is now worth over £20,000. Pro-
bate amounts to just on £2500; so that,
instead of the benefactor who looked after
him getting one-half of his estate net, as he
HER MAIDEN MODESTY.
“Why did your maid leave you?”
“She was so old-fashioned, dear old thing, she couldn’t stay in the room while the
canary had a bath.”
contemplated at the time lie made the will,
she gets about £l5OO, while other no nearer
relations who did nothing for the testator
collect about £17,000. Evidently the old man
had it fixed in his mind that the lady
was to get one-half his estate, and let it go
at that. *
❖ ❖ ❖
“C.Q.”: An agreeable New Year’s box
came the way of A. E. McLellan, the honor-
ary organiser of the St. Paul’s spire appeal
in Melbourne. The Anglican cathedral has
been an architectural blot on the landscape
for months owing to the funds for putting
nightcaps on the three towers having run
out before the scheme was completed. An
anonymous donor offered £2OOO contingent
on an additional £lB,OOO being subscribed
by the last day of the Old Year. The re-
sponse was poor, however, and by midday
on the 31st a large sum was still wanted.
Then McLellan received a call to interview
a woman drawn up in a car against the
sidewalk. The lady inquired as to the
amount outstanding, and. on being told,
wrote out a cheque for £1094. Then she
drove off with a request to keep her name out
of the business.
* * * *
“P.X.”: Three months ago The Bulletin
printed some verses in which “Hasen”
mourned over the passing of the silent
movies, concluding:
Sweet vision of the voiceless screen,
Beloved ghost of other days,
How long enthralled I might have been
If they had left you dumb always!
From Miami, Florida (U.S.A.), somebody
now hits back. “You say we say ‘My goil
friend’s gaht a sheek.’ Well, we don’t say
‘gel’ for ‘girl,’ and how much worse is ‘goil,’
even if we did say it, than ‘gel’? Also we
don’t say ‘noit’ for ‘night,’ and I’ve never
heard an American say, as I heard a very
well-educated Englishman say, that a lady
had lice on her neck —he meant ‘lace’ of
course. There’s a beam in your eye, sonny,
even if there’s a mote in our own.”
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: The ancient controversy as
to whether sharks have ever attacked bathers
in Port Phillip waters has been revived in
Melbourne. Knight James Barrett says
that he remembers such an occasion, and
that he swam at the spot the day after and
the day before the tragedy. Bert Felsenthal,
of Hampton, asserts that the victim was
his mother’s uncle, and that the lady died
of grief a few days after the catastrophe.
Charles Cromack, of South Yarra, claims
to have seen the accident. The victim was
swimming between the South Melbourne
baths and an old jetty, since demolished,
when he was seen to rise out of the water
with the monster clinging to his leg. A man
named Pritchard rode in on horseback and
drove the brute off, and fishermen caught it
some days later. By way of complete con-
firmation, a tombstone has been located in
the R.C. portion of the Melbourne cemetery
with the inscription: “Peter Rooney, killed
by a shark while bathing on February 6,
1876.”
# * * *
“Nospmiss”: The four-masted barque
Garthpool. piled up on Cape Yerde Islands
in a fog last year, was the last of the big
British square-rigged windjammers and the
last of a line of stout ships whose history
would fill volumes. It was founded by Wil-
liam Garthwaite, who developed a very pro-
fitable transport service between Canada and
France, and was rewarded with a baronetcy
10 years ago. The sailing-ships were a side-
line, kept on more for sentiment than busi-
ness. They all finished more or less , drama-
tically. An iceberg settled the Garthforce,
now a hulk at Dux-ban; the Garthway was
wrecked on Santa Max-ia Island, off Chile:
the Garthgarry ran ashore on Tierra del
Fuego, and most of her company were
drowned; the Garthneill, now a hulk at
Port Adelaide, alone drifted into old age
peacefully. A halo still hangs round her in
wind jamming circles. In 1919, on a voyage
from Sydney to Bunbury (W.A.), she cir-
cumnavigated the globe in 7(J days—but it
would take a page to tell that story. 1
* * * . *
“Piecrust”: During the war the ornate
Brighton Pavilion (England) was in use
as a hospital for wounded Indians, brought
over from France. The big men were
amicable, but when convalescent some of
them began to feel the restraint. One after-
noon three turbaned and grinning six-
footei-s decided that enough was as good as
a feast, and cat-burglared their way across
roofs and parapets, finally swinging in
through the most promising skylight they
saw. It was the telephone exchange, and
business came to an abrupt standstill while
eight hysterical damsels fought for the door.
It was impossible to get even a wrong
number for about an hour. Such of the
Indians as died in hospital were cremated
back in the downs, the ashes being shipped
to India later and tipped in the Ganges. Not
even a Digger could get near when a burning
was in progress—and a Digger could get
almost anywhere. At each attempt a polite
and dark-skinned gent would rise from behind
a furze-bush and intimate that it would be
best to return. A white marble structure
now marks India’s gratitude for the care
taken of her sons.
* * * *
“Caractacus”: It has always been a con-
vention to deny that the A.I.F. knew any
practices like those condemned by Robert
Graves in his “Good-bye to All That,” and
to present the Digger as war’s perfect little
gentleman; but in early days, before the
censorship became tight, there appeared in
letters from the front accounts of happen-
ings (admittedly the result of sudden suc-
cumbing to over-strain by men tried beyond
endurance) as ghastly as anything Graves
suggested. One such incident, reported by
a young officer to his father, almost exactly
paralleled the Graves indictment. There is
also a very circumstantial story going the
secret rounds concerning events subsequent
to the autopsy of Richtofen; I heard it
through one of the M.O.’s concerned. No
one pretends such lapses were regular, but
it is rather silly for commanders to protest
self-righteously that they never, never occur-
red ; as silly as the implication that U.S.A.
won the war because it refuses to mention
any other nation’s part in it.
* * * *
“S.S.S.”: On the day after my arrival
to take up the matronship of a little Vic.
country hospital, a girl came in at eight
o’clock and asked for the morning paper.
The cook informed me that she was the
daughter of a rich German farmer, who
lived about a mile away. He was a mem-
ber of the hospital committee, and previous
matrons had always given the paper to him.
As the paper was the local one and a daily
gift to the hospital from the struggling pro-
prietor-editor, I said what I thought and
refused it, permanently. Next month I was
looking for another job.
* * * #
“C.” : From 1810 to 1824 Sydney’s Hyde
Park was a racecourse. It was still so
described in 1851, when the S. M. Herald
advised its readers to visit the menagerie
there. This was the first Sydney Zoo, and
the nine or ten foreign animals it included
were imported by Capt. Charlsworth,. skip-
per of the Royal Saxon. Defending two
prisoners charged with betting in Hyde
Park some little time ago, a lawyer
at the Central Police Court raised the
point that the place is still, technically,
a racecourse, but the S-M. wasn’t impressed
by the plea.
* * * *
“Earl Errol”: Peace has its nasty counter-
attacks as well as war. In the early days
of the century a very swanky Sydney firm
of hatters opened up a large shipment of
the very latest bowlers from Bond-street.
The lids made an awe-inspiring windq-w dis-
play with little tickets that went as high as
five guineas, and the firm calmly waited for
a rush. But it didn’t come. A George-
street haberdasher more renowned for low
prices than for his popularity with the elite
filled one of his big windows with an array
of bowlers of all shapes and sizes—he must
have raked Sydney for them —and inter-
spersed among them gigantic posters: “All
One Price—One Shilling.”
SETTLEMENT DEFERRED.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
And so the poor Old Year is spent
With its mean devices and moments fine,
And custom calls us to repent
The dear, damned sins of Twenty-nine.
But what of the seeds of good intent
You sowed in December, Twenty-Eight?
And the contx’ite tears that then were meant
To water them? What was their fate?
The beers you’d dodge, and the maids you’d
miss,
In that New Year with its promise high ?
It seems you still can swallow and kiss—
Plow soon did the tender seedlings die ?
Comrades, the best resolves may thud
When summer witches the willing blood!
Upon your straitened way you went
In virtue’s garb, new-bought and bold,
Ept the sun was ablaze with merriment,
And maids were warm and beer was cold.
So hear me now! If I must repent
And some of the burgeoning sweets forego,
I’ll so contrive as to start my Lent
When fruits not quite so redly glow,
When skies and eyes aren’t quite so blue
And the piper plays a more sober tune;
My New Year ledger I’m carrying through
To April, May or it may be June;
For the best resolves may prove up to mud
When summer sings to the tingling blood!
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


“Murkah” : The Telegraph Branch strug-
gled well with its recent rush; on the Eve
110,000 telegrams tore over the huge cobweb
that centres on Sydney. There was a scare
when the Sydney-Brisbane Murray sets
jibbed, and for over an hour defied the
efforts of mechanics. The time-chart rapidly
jumped from “pretty fair” to “1000 on
hand.” Then the Murrays again took hold:
but two hours passed before the chart
again read clear. For the first time Adelaide
extended a “carrier-channel” to Perth, which
obviated rehandling along the track. Mel-
bourne’s share got off the wire at that city,
whilst the Adelaide-Perth biz. kept going.
At the next stop Adelaide’s quota stepped
ashore, and auto, repeaters kicked the Perth
shipment off on its last long lap across the
Nullarbor. Thus Perth was as close to Syd-
ney, telegraphically, as Redfern. The car-
rier-system is literally wired wireless, and
as the wandering current of radio affects
only the receiver tuned to suit it, so with
the waves tied to the wire.
* * * *
“C.Q.” : The biggest accession of new ter-
ritory to Australia since the Versailles Treaty
gave us the mandate over New Guinea has
occurred at Lake Victoria, in Gippsland.
This large sheet of water has been busy since
1928 forming new islands. The largest
arrived just before Christmas, when a bank
of black mud, 170 ft. by 40ft. and sft. higher
than the shores of the lake, hove into sight.
The upheavals are true eruptions, and are
accompanied by a furious boiling of the sur-
rounding water, due to the escape of sub-
terranean gas. The Lake Victoria Oil Co.
has been busy boring in the vicinity, and one
of its bores was found to have lifted two
feet after the disturbance.
* if * *
“Natal”: I suppose when The Bulletin
celebrates its centenary the same sort of
thing will be said, but I can’t help envying
the cartoonists in the Pitt-street office, 50
years ago, the wealth of human material they
had in the Sydney streets. There were
quaint old characters at every corner. Paddy,
the blind man who sold caudles, always got
infuriated when vulgar little boys asked him
which way the bull ran—a jest the point
of which is long forgotten. Then there was
Abby Dabby, the matcliscller, in his two
hats and a coat that trailed nearly to his
feet. Ile’d fight with anyone who pulled
his coat. Dad, the Lands Office messenger,
who for all his venerable appearance had
a flow of language that on occasion made
even King-street blush; and Quilp, the
waiter at Somerville’s Flying Scud Rostau-
MERELY A CHANGE AROUND.
MOTHER: “How would you like a lovely
cake with seven candles on it for your
birthday, Charley?”
SON: “If it’s all the same to you, Mummy,
I’d rather have seven cakes and a
candle.”
rant in Pitt-street, nicknamed few knew
why. Cocky the Bantam, otherwise 'the Fly-
ing Pieman, had his stall outside the old
News office, and was always willing to toss
the newsboys as to whether he gave them
a penny pie free or got twopence for it.
The Scotchman —he had no other title —
worked for Sam Taylor the brushmaker in
Queen’s-place, and earned fame through his
custom of marching at the head of funerals
bound for South Head. Garden Honey, who
sold the “correct cards” at Sydney Cricket
Ground, was another character who must
have used up some of Phil May’s pencils.
Then there were Mother Five Bob, who
sold fruit at the Domain gates, and Granny,
whose perambulator full of green-stuff was
usually parked outside the Royal in George-
street. Very abusive ladies when in liquor,
but very good-hearted. All dead this many
a year.
TAKES NO CHANCES THERE.
MAE: “Vera’s thirty if she’s a day, yet she still clings to her
youth!”
FAE: “My word she does—especially at a dance!”
“Fliv”: I am certain there is an important
psychological urge behind the increasing
tendency to sabotage motor-cars. I leave
my car about the streets a good deal, and
in a single week recently I found (1) the
rubber holder of the screen-wiper torn off,
(2) a deep scratch that might have been
done with a nail on a mudguard, and (3)
the waterproof cover of the chain that safe-
guards the spare wheel cut in halves. Several
friends have had similar experiences, and
the Sydney papers told the other day of a
man who picked his car up after an absence
of an hour or two and found the petrol
tank half-full of sand. In Melbourne it is
the same. A salesman who had only just
landed a job after a long, dry spell, left his
car outside a prospective customer’s. It
faded away in his absence, and when it was
recovered a few miles out of town, it
had been pounded apparently with a
hammer. No such senseless indignities
were inflicted on, say, dogcarts, before
the motoring era, though it was com-
mon to see them left unguarded at hitching-
posts. Hatred of capitalism can have no-
thing to do with it; the Melbourne man
mentioned above is no capitalist. My theory
is that it is a blind protest against mechan-
isation. There are thousands who have the
same vague dread of machines, and desire to
injure them, that their fathers had of Chinese
cheap labor.
if * if
“Murkah”: Mixed coinages (B._lB/12/’29)
reminds me. At Papeete (Tahiti) I pur-
chased a French trifle, and proffered an Eng-
lish half-sov. In exchange the native girl
behind the counter handed me a fistful of
all sorts. There were English, French.
Spanish and American coins, also some of
the odd-looking issues of a half-dozen South
Americium Republics. Curiosity impelled me
to see just how accurate it was, and on a
handy grass-plot I worked it out. She had
hit it to the tenth of a penny!
* * * *
“Steve Gamp” : “I will tell you,” said Wil-
liam. when I inquired why his face was
swathed in lint and cotton-wool,
and his nose was bruised, “as
man to man.” By this I knew
that William had been with the
flagons. “My father-in-law,”
added William, “is a cow. But
I set that aside, this bein’
Cliristmastimean’ peaceangood-
will, if yer take me meanin’? I
says to meself: ‘I will go to
that old cow an’ say: “Let gy-
bons be gy-bons,” an’ offer ’im
a bagga prawns.’ Well, I takes
’im the bagga prawns all right,
an’ ’ands ’em to ’im an’ says:
‘Dad, I ’ope you’ll take this in
ther spirit in which it’s meant.’
An’ at that moment me foot
slipped on one of the prawns
which had crept out of the bag
unbeknownst, an’ I does a .seven
an’ me ’eel catches ’im under
th’ chin an’ woodens ’im right
out. Even thert I was willin’
to say to ’im ‘Let gy-bons be
gy-bons,” but when ’e come to ’e bit me in
the jaw an’ hit me in the face with a pickle-
bottle, so I broke two chairs on ’im an’ left
before me temper rose.”
* * * *
“Pom” : Horses were not the only acces-
sories of war sold to the Belgians after the
Armistice (B. 4/12/’29). Motor-tyres, after
the broad arrow had been dexterously re-
moved with a file, brought handsome prices,
and several members of my unit, a motor-
transport section, hopped in for their cut.
There was also a good deal of satirical con-
jecture concerning the fate of a new “Sun-
beam” touring car belonging to the O.C.
which was seen leaving the park but never
returned.
* * * *
“Oxmead” : “O’Phisphus’s” post-office clerk
who credited Westralia with the possession of
a Newcastle (B. l/l/’3O) was out of date. It
had one for many years, a peaceful agricul-
tural settlement, but after Federation came
along the rude forefathers of the hamlet
decided that it would lessen the chance of
confusion in postal addresses if they reverted
to the old aboriginal name of Toodyay. The
change wasn’t effected until after a spirited
debate in the local council and several
public meetings, but the cockies wdio insisted
that it was up to “the Noo-Sou’-Wales New-
castle,” as being a less important place, to
re-christen itself were eventually outvoted.
* * *
“The Hard”: Australia was connected
with a naval cere-
mo n y to which
much dog attached
in Portsmouth re-
cently. This was
the placing in the
cathedral of a
model of the Mary
Rose as she was in
the days of Charles
11., when she gain-
ed great renown by
the way her com-
mander, John
Kempthorne, dealt
with the pirates of
Algiers. The model
was made of Aus-
tralian woods by a
Portsmouth man
now living in Aus-
tralia, and was
draped by Admiral
Roger Keyes with
the white ensign of
the other Mary
Rose, which was
sunk at Jutland.
The name doesn’t
carry much luck,
apparently. The
original Mary
Rose, apple of the
eye of great King
Hal of the many
wives, capsized and
sank in the Thames
with most of her
crew, just as he
was about to in-
spect her before
her maiden voyage
began. Others of
the name which
followed have been little more fortunate.
$ * * *
“Effess”: Probably the queerest figure of
a soldier in France belonged to my unit (Aus-
tralian Wireless Corps). Of huge physique
on enlistment, he rapidly became enormous,
and for the reason that the trenches weren’t
wide enough it became impossible to send
him into the front line. Incidentally, he
wore a decoration unique in the A.1.F., a
pure white ribbon, bestowed for services with
the Mawson Polar expedition of 1912.
In the end he was sent back to Australia
suffering from synovitis.
* * * *
“Nakh.” : “Faave’s” remark (B. 25/12/’29)
that the reversion to the volunteer system
will displease the anti-alcohol brigade re-
minds me. When a small boy I joined a
Christmas camp of the S.A. Garrison Artil-
lery on Granite Island, Victor Harbor. On
the first Sunday,
the canteen having
been closed, the
camp was thrown
open to visitors,
when an Irish gun-
ner, a redheaded
giant, returned
from the town in
an advanced state
of liquefaction. An
attempt to reason
with him made him
violent, and, in
accordance with
the regulations, the
O. in G. ordered
him to be lashed
to a gun. He im-
mediately became
the most suceess-
ful sideshow
on the island,
and despite endea-
vors to interest the
visitors in the
splendid mess ar-
rangements, he re-
mained the sole
centre of attrac-
tion. Gifted with
a persuasive ton-
gue, his eloquent
denunciations of
the tyranny of
which he was the
innocent victim
awakened the sym-
pathy of the crowd
to the point where
an attempt at res-
cue seemed immi-
nent. To solve a
knotty problem
six burly gunners were ordered to stun
the bad advertisement into the guard tent,
with the result that that stout edifice came
down on the lot of them. After that the
town was out of bounds on visitors’ day.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The fat bottle-oh who comes
round my way sits leisurely on the front of
the cart calling out something like “Bah-yah"
in a voice that implies that he doesn’t care
whether you do or you don’t. His curious
cry and his impassivity to trade aroused my
curiosity, for he is reputed to have grown
rich at his desultory business. “Beer?” he
said, as he emptied the dregs out of the
empties he had just purchased. “I ’ates an’
despises it, an’ them as drinks it. I’m a
Rechabite, I am, an’ ’old me degrees. No ;
I never gets down from me cart to buy no
bottles; the likes of them as buy beer wants
ter sell ther bottles more’n I wanter buy ’em,
an’ they can come ter me if they want ther
cash.” And he went on his way, a Stoic
philosopher despising the frailties on which
he battens.
if a * *
“Cranoustie” : A lot of puir doitedi bodies
who don’t know any better are always hav-
ering about the correct way to hit a golf
ball. The cold fact is that, there is no correct
way save that which brings about satisfactory
results. It is all the more refreshing to
find such an authority as the London Fifld
asserting that the hitting of a golf ball in
spite of all twaddle to the contrary, differs
in no respect at all from the hittino- 0 f
any other kind of ball. That is why a
novice with a good knowledge of some other
ball game, like cricket, invariably does so
well at the beginning of his golf career
when he follows his natural instincts Tt
is not until some pundit gets hold of him
and fills him with the usual mumbo jumbo
about stance, knee movement, arm and body
swing that he falls away from efficiency and
lapses into a despairing ritual, which in
nine cases out of ten never brings him
salvation.
* * * *
“Upper Tooting”; The English Draper’s
Record, a publication even more eclectic
than the Tailor and Cutter, has been
holding forth on how to choose presents of
scent for members of the bare sex. “A light
flower perfume is most appropriate for the
blonde, while for the brunette the heavy
type of Eastern blend is likely to be most
acceptable. Dark women are seldom con-
tented with light flowery odors like sweet-
pea, lily of the valley or night-scented
stock.” I have noticed myself how scents
vary. In my time, the flower girls of
Piccadilly-Circus favored gin. In Sydney
Il'aymarket the scents most affected by the
local patriciennes were rum in the winter
and beer in summer. In Collingwood and
Fitzroy, however, on the other side of the
Murray, “pinky” and methylated spirit were
le dernier cri.
* * * *
“Mells” : A motorist pulled up on Christ-
mas Eve in a Randwick (Sydney) street,
where a crowd was gathered round a
prostrate form on the pavement, and
asked what was the trouble. “A woman
shot,” said someone laconically, and away
the kind-hearted fellow dashed to the
nearest police station to report what he
honestly believed to be a crime of violence.
It isn’t only foreigners who trip up over
our English colloquialisms.
* * * *
“Moggs”: I’m with “Bloggs” (B. l/l/’3O)
to the last button in his demand for a “plain
hygienic uniform” for Australians. The
Japanese have a one- or two-piece garment
giving the effect of a surtout and a pair
of baggy knickers that seems to fulfil the
requirements of health and decency, and it
shouldn’t be impossible to improve upon it.
Some sort' of footgear, a covering for the
torso and —for the bald and those who’ve got
used to it —a head-tliatch are all that are
necessary. Ornament is a matter of taste,
and, as Rome and Athens taught us,
ornament is most effective when applied
to the simplest forms. Beauty is a matter,
in essence, of fitness for a purpose, and any-
thing more unfit for their purpose than the
clothes of modern civilised beings—-particu-
larly males —it would be hard to imagine.
Though reform lie over the dead bodies of
tailors, shirt-and-collar makers and footwear
HE’D LIKE TO SEE A FEW PEOPLE ABOUT.
“What! Never been up to Melbourne? But you must go
there some day.”
“Well, yairs, I suppose I must. Now, which might be the
busy day there?”
manufacturers, it must come. I feel like
this very especially in summer-time.
* * * *
“Erua”: When the pioneers heard the
name of the Maori kainga on the Waikato
River they averred that the pakeha would
never be able to spell or .pronounce Ngarua-
wahia. Time decreed otherwise, and nowa-
days most people are not even aware o£
the narrow escape the township had of being-
one of a dozen Newcastles scattered over
the British Empire. Ngaruawahia is chiefly
famous as the scene of an annual regatta,
where Henare and his plump wahine row
and disport themselves on the river, while
thousands of their white and brown fellow-
countrymen look on and applaud.
* * * *
“F.”: After pay-day and a few bottles of
vin blanc, those good cobbers Bluey and
Squat always persisted in having a few
rounds with each other. On one such
occasion they backed themselves with a
20-franc note apiece. I held the stakes,
and disappeared just before the final gong.
Next day they both enlisted my aid “to find
the cow who had bolted with our 40 francs."
We searched everywhere without success,
but two days before the next pay, when
funds were at their lowest ebb, I handed
up. They called me something my mother
wouldn’t like to have heard, but in the enc
they bought me the wine of the country.
BALLADE OF ALL-DAY SUCKERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In childhood’s days when, fancy-free,
I had not met with carking care,
I never grudged my ha’penny
Expended at the beldames, where
Was found that treat beyond compare
In all the sticky ranks of tucker—
It seems superfluous to declare
The honnc-houche was an All-day Sucker.
In later life, by Fate’s decree,
I _ have known seasons far from fair,
Relieved by intermittent glee
Of affluence. Such times were rare
For relatives forebore to spare
The means, lest Ahab come a mucker.
And walk where angels would not dare—
Become, in fact, an All-day Sucker.
Long since, each sprightly, youthful spree
Has been a memory-dimmed affair,
For I, eschewing eau-de-vie ,
Have fought for foothold on that stair
Whose summit is the magnate’s chair.
To find, alas! with brows that pucker,
My wond’rous schemes had left me bare—
He took me for an All-day Sucker,
Envoy.
Prince, from your vantage-point up there,
Observe that, in the final chuklcer,
The players who the laurel wear
Have for a ball an All-day Sucker.
N.S.W.
AHAR MULDOON.


Ctor^e
9
Greatest Delicacy
—and fast becoming Australia’s. Tiny inch-long fish,
unique in flavour, whitebait is found only in sparkling
New Zealand streams, then for but three months of the
year.
You, however, can have it the year round, with all its
original freshness and flavour, for it is canned on the
banks of the rivers the same day as it is caught.
Try it. St. George Canned Whitebait will give you a
new meaning for the word "delicious.”
IRVINE AND STEVENSON'S
ST. GEORGE COMPANY, Ltd
Dunedin New Zealand
Dunedin
GEORGE Delicacies
rs
ns
i
m
WHAT DOES SPENDING COST?
How much does it cost you to spend £100? The answer is
£l 00 down and at least £4 per annum for the rest of your life.
Yet what man would knowingly spend £lOO that put him
under obligation to pay £4 per year for life.
None, perhaps, but many do it unconsciously when they spend
money that might otherwise have earned interest at 4 per
cent, indefinitely.
Every pound you spend has attached to it an invisible string
of pennies which you spend with it.
Keep your money in a Savings Account and earn, not spend,
4 per cent, interest per annum.
€bmmonwcalti) Savinas JBank of Bustralla
( Guaranteed, by the Commonwealth Government).
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Professor Peden takes a knighthood and
so re-establishes the old tradition that the
President of the N.S.W. Leg. Council must
have a handle to liis name—a tradition which
was trampled on by Fred Flowers. Still,
in that the ex-Labor leader was in good com-
pany ; the greatest of them all, William
Charles Wentworth, who was in the chair in
1861-62, never took a knighthood. Prof.
Peden is a lawyer, who has done better at
the Uni. than at the Bar ; long before he
became a professor ribald juniors used te-
write his name
Pedant. But in
the chair he
has, at any rate,
been prompt
and firm and
not addicted to
hair-splitting.
Joseph Ward,
of Maoriland,
has reason to
agree with
S t r i n d b erg’s
theory of cycles.
He started life
in the M.L.
Post and Tele-
graph Depart-
ment as a cadet,
went back to it
20 years later
as Postmaster-
General,
dropped the
portfolio after
five years,
picked it up
again three
years later, and
carried on till
1912 and the
Liberal debacle.
Now the trans-
lation of Wil-
ford to London,
involving a re-
shuffle,, has sent
the veteran back
once more to
B. S. STEVENS, Trea-
surer of N. S. Wales,
who was in Melbourne
last week asking
bankers and others
about loan prospects.
the Post Office, still a good money-spinner
for the country, though it charges only a
penny for its letter stamps.
“R.H.”: Richard Tilden Smith, the Aus-
tralian-horn financier and colliery owner
who dropped dead in the House of Commons
(B. 25/12/’29), lent a helping hand to many
a man who was down. When Jabez Bal-
four, of Liberator notoriety, finished his long
term of penal servitude in 1906, it was
Tilden Smith who offered him a chance
to make good in the Far Bast. City influ-
ences, however, were too strong for Balfour
and the attempt at a comeback failed. Then
Smith gave him another chance, a position
in Wales. Balfour got in tlie train in
London full of hope, but died on the way.
History is the long suit of Dr. Head, new
Archbishop of Melbourne. He learnt it under
Lord Acton at Oxford. Acton was discon-
certingly outspoken on mediaeval history, but
his impartiality was beyond question, and
Head learnt the-judicial attitude from him.
A warm appreciation of the Archbishop s
best-known work, “The Fallen Stuarts,”
comes from Professor Scott, of Melbourne.
Chief Justice Griffith was taken from the
Queensland Supreme Court to be_ a High
Court Judge; but the practice of going to
a State Court hasn’t
been common. Rich,
J., who took the
Coal case when
Knox, C.J., retired
from it, is the only
High Court man who
ever sat on a N.S.W.
bench as permanent
Judge, though botli
Barton and O’Con
nor had been tem-
poraries. In his
younger days Rich
rather specialised in
company law, and
with his friend Tom
Rolin edited what
was the textbook on
the subject for years.
Miss Macartliur
Onslow, the newest
C.8.E., is the woman-
head of one of the
oldest families in
Australia. As the
late Captain Ons-
low’s eldest child she
succeeded to
N.S.W.’s show coun-
try house, Camden
Park. One brother,
George (now the
very competent
head of a great
milk-retailing busi-
WILLIAM LENNON, who, having reached
80, has just relinquished the post of
Lieutenant-Gov. of Queensland.
ness), did splendid work in Palestine as a
Light Horse brigadier, and another brother,
James, is an M.L.C., and served during the
war as C.O. Troops on transports. They are
the great-grandchildren of that Capt. John
Macarthur who founded the merino-wool
industry in Australia.
“T.P.”: The Challenge Trophy, celebrated
in the annals of the cadet system (Vic.),
has been presented by the Sargood family to
Colonel G. H. James, retired schoolteacher
and cadet officer. Frederick Sargood, founder
of the movement and Vic. Minister for De-
fence in the ’nineties, presented the trophy for
annual competition. Everybody knew where
James was teaching by the crowds of
nippers lying on their stomachs in back
yards, industriously pulling at triggers,
whilst bits of corks dangled from the muzzles
of little rifles. When the cork permanently
ceased wobbling the lad knew he had a
fighting chance for intensive training in the
challenge team. Seeing that his boys in
various parts of the State won 10 times
out of 13, the veteran deserves the souvenir.
James William Blair, Queensland’s New
Year-honored C.J., was born at Ipswich
nearly 59 years ago. After being called to
the Bar he represented his home town in
the Assembly for 13 years and held office
under three Premiers, Morgan, Kidston and
Denham. He was first offered a Judgeship
in 1908 but didn’t accept one until 1922,
becoming C.J. three years later. He is
Chancellor of the University of Queensland.
Court item from “Jeames” :
The just-cabled news of the engagement of the
Duke of Westminister and Miss Loelia Ponsonby is
going to cause excitement not unmixed with blas-
phemy in Mayfair. The duke is a multi-millionaire
(he owns acres of Belgravia, inter alia), but at 51
he has been divorced twice, and he has been associ-
ated with more ladies, in popular legend, than the
late King Solomon. He is barred by the King
and Queen, but has said that he regards the fact
as one of the principal advantages of his position.
Miss Ponsonby, On the other hand, belongs to
a family of courtiers. Her father was Equerry to
Queen Victoria, King Edward and the present king;
her only brother was a Page of Honor and the family
home is in St. James’s Palace. She is 28, but looks
20 or less, and is one of the cleverest members of
the so-called “Prince’s set.”
It is a melancholy fact that the duke, in spite
of his deplorable reputation and his habit of spend-
ing his money outside England (in Paris, Monte
Carlo and on the French estate where his friend
Winston Churchill goes boar-hunting with him),
shares with lord Lonsdale the distinction of being
extremely popular amongst the general public. He
did well in the war, and in spite of his height and
weight is still a first-class polo player and cross-
country horseman.
Josiqh Symon, who is in his 84th year,
was a Q.C. before he was a K.C. —he tools
silk ip 1881. And he must be quite the oldest
ex-Minister of the Crown in Australia, for
in the same year he was S. Aus. Attorney-
General. Twenty-three years later he had
the same job in a Federal Cabinet. The
veteran was called to the S. A. Bar as long
ago as November, 1871.
R. M. (“Bobby”) Turner, the father
of the Melbourne Stock Exchange, has passed
on, at 76. Born in Adelaide, he was a steeple-
chaser of some note in liis youth, and a
sometime hon. sec. to the Melbourne Hunt
Club. He was an inveterate director, and
his best chairmanship was that of the East
Gold Co. at Ballarat, which paid big divi-
dends for many years. Turner owned the
mare Insomnia, the dam of Wakeful, owned
by his old friend Leslie MacDonald, recently
deceased. Bobby was a heavy speculator
in the Broken Hill boom, though he never
operated in a spectacular manner.
The T a s m a man
Government has ap-
pointed Samuel Wil-
liam Steane Conser-
vator of Forests for
a probationary 12
months. He is a Cam-
bridge graduate, and
holds English and
French certificates.
Like Lane-Poole, he
brings to his job
Indian experience
gained in Kashmir,
where lie served from
1908-27, with an in-
terval during the
war years, when he
was a captain in the
Royal Artillery.
John Michael
Drew, M.L.C., is the
only man who has
been in every West-
ralian Labor Minis-
try ; he was the
Upper House repre-
sentative in the first
one of all, a quarter
of a century ago, be-
fore any of his
present colleagues
were in Parliament.
But it was as an
ally, not as an out-
and-out comrade;
John didn’t become a pledged Laborite
until 1911. He is a Westralian native
-—another thing which differentiates him
from almost every other portfolio-holder
in any State Labor Cabinet —a product of
Northampton, where lead and copper were
mined long before Coolgardie was foaled. He
was a provincial journalist before he took
to politics, and a very capable one.
Arthur Augustus Ponsonby, one of the new
Labor peers in England, is a great-grandson
of the famous Earl Grey. The new JLaoor
spokesman began his official career as “page
of honor to Queen Victoria.” But things
aren’t what they were in good Victoria’s reign.
A. B. Piddington, N.S.W. Industrial Com-
missioner, whose recently published book
of reminiscences, “Worshipful Masters,”
shows him in the somewhat unexpected role
of a sprightly raconteur, credits the inven-
tion of the Parliamentary Labor pledge, as a
means of enforcing rigid discipline in the
infant party, to three men, Hughes, Holman
and Beeby, though only the first of them was
in Parliament at the time. Each of them, it
is added, was eventually incinerated in the
machine he had helped to create.
J. F. Ward, the new headmaster of Prince
Alfred College, Adelaide, was born at Man-
chester 46 years ago. He is an old P.A.
boy and was subsequently a master, return-
ing to take over the headship after 11 years
spent in Queensland and at Wesley College,
Perth.
Rev. E. T. Cox, of Elwood (Vic.), has
passed over the border at 78. For over 40
years he was one of the most powerful
preachers in the Methodist connection. He
could be remarkably outspoken, too. “You
don’t give enough to pay for the paint you
wear off the pews,” he once told the crowded
galleries of the Lydiard-street church, Bal-
larat.
The late Canon Snodgrass’s dad, Peter,
was one of the early members 'of Vic:.
Assembly. Peter Snodgrass belonged to the
squatter class, and his persistent habit of
moving amendments caused Charles Don,
the first Labor member, to declare one night
that if Snodgrass had been there Moses
would have had a late sitting when he
brought down the Tables of the Law.
W. R. Humphries, author of “Patrolling
in Papua,” has plenty of first-hand know-
ledge of his subject. For umpteen years he
has been magistrate, warden, patrol officer
and explorer in the land of the mopheads.
His best-known exploratory work was done
from Nepa, an isolated outpost on Mt. Law-
son (9000 ft.), close by the old Anglo-Ger-
man frontier. Touching the gold in that
locality and elsewhere, Humphries aptly
quotes the words of his old friend Matt
Crowe, most famous of Papuan prospectors:
“There’s gold all over the country, but
there’s a damn lot of Papua mixed with it.”
“Uramao”: Norman Nairn, one of the
brothers who blazed the motor-track across
the desert between Beirut and Bagdad, re-
ducing the time of travel from four weeks to
36 hours (B. 18/12/’29), has just been
visiting his native Maoriland. He has
acquired much knowledge of Arabs, Kurds,
Persians and Bedouins, and hazards a
belief that Britain has laid herself in for
a peck of trouble by taking over the admin-
istration of Palestine. The Moslem popula-
tions of the surrounding countries are
bitterly hostile to the Jews, and Jerusalem
was in Moslem hands for nearly seven cen-
turies until Allenby’s troops entered it in
1917.
“V.D.L.”: Tasmania has more Federal
members with State experience than even
Westralia (B. 18/12/’29). There are seven
of them out of 11, and six have had con-
siderable Ministerial experience. Lyons was
in two Cabinets and was for four years Pre-
mier. Guy served four years in the Cabinet.
Senator Ogden sat for 17 years in the State
Parliament, and was twice a Minister. Sena-
tor J. B. Hayes was Premier for some years,
whilst Senators H. Hays and Payne also
served terms as Ministers.
Charles Edward Lane-Poole, Common-
wealth Inspector of Forests, comes of a
family distinguished for all kinds of erudi-
tion. His father was Professor of Arabic
at Trinity College, Dublin, and there
was a great-uncle who was the most famous
Orientalist of his day. He himself began
his study of forestry in France, and had
posts in Cape Colony, the Transvaal and
Sierra Leone before crossing to Westralia.
He took his job as Conservator so seriously
and developed such a “forest conscience” that
the Government found difficulty in keeping
pace with his enthusiasms. Since entering
the Commonwealth service he has extended
his wanderings to Papua, New Guinea and
Norfolk Island.
Louis John Schmitt, who becomes M.L.’s
chief representative in Australia, was in the
Civil Service until a year ago, when he
resigned to take on the job of employers’
representative in M.L.’s Arbitration Court.
Schmitt was born in Victoria in 1885 and
passed through Melbourne Uni. Before hop-
ping over to M.L. 19 years ago he was with
Vic.’s railways and the Great Fitzroy Copper
Mines in Bananaland.
Retired from active benevolent work, after
54 years of it, T. H. Atkinson, latterly chair-
man of S.A. Public Relief and Children’s
Welfare
Board. He
went straight,
from school
(St. Peter's)
into the de-
partment
then called,
with nine-'
teentli - cen-
tury bru-
tality, the
D e s t i t ute
A s-y 1 u m.
H' i s last
years of office
have been the
most stren-
uous, the re-
lief figures
having
climbed
steadily from
under 7 per
1000 in 1912.
to over 50
last year.
The most
dramatic
moment in
his hal f -
century was
caused by a
riot against
work - for -
ration s.
under the
long-ago Pre-
miership of
C. C. King-
ston —whose
genial per-
sonality
quelled it.
N.S.W. Chief Justice
STREET, returning
from ten months’
absence abroad,
H. P. Moore, one of Adelaide’s chief autho-
rities on finance, retires with the New Year
from 30 years’ work as “colonial manager”
of the South Australian Company, a London-
owned affair that gave the infant province
a leg-up by investing largely in unknown
land from £1 an acre upwards, and has
reaped an enormous profit ever since. A. L.
A. Muller, who has grown up in the Adel-
aide office, succeeds Moore.
Brisbane claims a centenarian in George
Young, of New Farm. Born in Dorset, he
reached Queensland in the early ’sixties and
for several years carried the mail between
Roma and Cbarleville. Later he followed
dairying and farming around Roma until
his 80th year.
The Second Bulletin Novel Competition
closed with 275 entries. Two of them are
held over tentatively: sealed envelopes con-
taining the names and addresses of the
authors of “The Belle of Breakfast Creek,”
by “The Opossum of the Dawn” and of
“Masters and Saints,” by “Happy New Year”
are awaited.
STURT’S YEAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The river towns along the South Australian end
of the Murray are about to celebrate the centenary
of Sturt’s historic voyage in 1830.”
Stretch out a hand to him across the years,
That gallant figure of a bygone day,
Type of the restless, dauntless pioneers,
The men who threw the light where dark-
ness lay.
Where was a way to find they found a way
Through deserts white with sand or steppes
with snow.
Perils might spur but could not stem or
stay
Such as was Sturt a hundred years ago.
Through sprawling shallows now his boat
he steers;
Anon she glides through narrowing banks
of clay;
Crawls through the sluggish marsh, or rocks
and veers
Down rapids thick with snags and shot
with spray,
Death in the fringing thickets —who could
say?—
Death ever lurking in the depths below,
And, sweeping land and stream with keen
survey,
Sturt in the stern—a hundred years ago!
Into the dim unknown, unguessed, he peers;
No dangers daunt him and no doubts dis-
may ;
Onward another Argo goes, and clears
The guarded secrets of the wild away.
Beneath a brazen sky, through plains of
grey,
A path from shore to shore ’twas his to show.
O for a pen to fittingly portray
That voyage of a hundred years ago!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


R°NE<>
DIARY
FOR 1930
NOW
READY.
Has
a Page
for
Every Day
Cloth
Bound, Gold
Lettered.
Size, 96 x 6i
Price 10/
Post, 1/- extra.
iS
w BSS2S2S * :
RONEO CO. Ltd., 21 Hunter St., Sydney.
The “Explosives” House
Explosives and Accessories of All Kinds
Supplied at Lowest Prices.
Manufacturers of
RENDROCK,
The Safest, Cheapest and Most Effective High Explosive Known.
Can be forwarded! by Rail or Steamer at ordinary rates of freight.
Blasting Machines, Steel Rock Drills.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney
The Mutual Life and
Citizens 9 Assurance
Company, Limited.
Founded 1886.
Assets at 31st December, 1928,
£18,792,732
of which 84% was represented by
Public Securities.
The M.L.C. Charter is constituted to
admit of the issue of policies to meet
the necessities of every class, every age,
every purse. Its range of contracts is
unsurpassed for diversity and liberality,
and the fulfilment of every contract is
guaranteed by the Company’s capital
and its ever-increasing assurance Funds.
CASH SURPLUS in the Ordinary
Branch for the year 1928, £624,370.
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
Head Office: Citizens’ Building, Castiereagh
Street and Martin Place, Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Dalgety and Co., Ltd.
Ordinary Written off. Re-
June, Profits. Dividends.* Premises, serves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 252,157 14 p.c. = 140,000 30,000 970,928
1920.. 282,577 15 ~ „ 150,000 50,000 1,028,505
1921.. 130,607 10 ~ ~ 100,000 1,034,112
Taxation refund, £158,210 .. ..1,192,322
Profit from sale of assets, £20,000 . . 1,212,322
1922.. 84,579 15 p.c. = 150,000 20,000 1,101,901
1923.. 239,162 15 „ „ 150,000 50,000 1,116,063
1924.. 298,988 17 „ ~170,000 50,000 1,170,051
1925.. 336,313 17 „ ~ 170,000 75,000 1,236,364
1926.. 220,048 17 „ „ 170,000 50,000 1,211,412
Premium on shares, £128,916 .. 1,340,328
1927.. 232,053 17 p.c. = 170,000 25,000 1,352,381
Premium on shares, £371,084 ..1,723,465
1928.. 276,887 17 p.c. = 255,000 25,000 1,695,352
1929.. 337,590 17 „ ~255,000 25,000 1,727,942
*The prefs. (5 p.c.) get £25,000 p.a.
Notwithstanding a much less favorable out-
look the board wrote last year’s net result at
£422,590 as against £351,886 for the previous
term. The difference between those figures
and the profits shown in the table repre-
sents payments to the staff provident fund
and bonus on salaries. The two amounted
to £85,000 last year and £75,000 and
£50.000 for the two years before. But
most of the spring in last year’s profit
figures was due to the distribution of some
£450,000 previously held in trust by Bawra
on account of selling-brokers’ commissions.
Exactly how much Dalgetys received the
accounts don’t tell, but the co. is the biggest
woolseller in Australasia—it handled over
16 p.c. of last season’s clip—so the windfall
must have been worth picking up.
Disregarding the appropriations, but de-
ducting the pref. div., the balance of the
year’s profit reached 26.5 p.d on the
£1,500,000 of ord. capital compared with
21.7, 25.7, 27 and 33.6 p.c. back to 1925, so
the 17 p.c. div. was managed comfortably.
What puts the sparkle into those figures is
that, besides having £1,727.942 of visible re-
serves, the co. works on £3,419,538 of pref.
and debenture money, which cost on the
average only 4.4 p.c. last year.
Trading conditions were mixed. The far
west of Queensland and N. S. Wales
and most of S. Aus. were very droughty.
Wool, the co.’s chief line, averaged only
£2l 10s. 6d. per bale, or £3 Bs. 7d.
less than the average for the previous clip.
But the co. put an extra 34,069 bales under
the hammer, making a total of 529,181, and
that helped, The wheat and hide and
tallow markets weakened, though dairy pro-
duce and cattle prices were up. But what-
ever, if the co. dropped in com-
mission earnings was probably more than
made up by increased returns from advances,
which visibly grew £835,408 during the year,
although the net increase in the co.’s own
debt, including the terminable debenture
stocks, was only £108,600. The bigger busi-
ness was handled at an extra cost of no
more than £2235, including the bill for taxa-
tion, which was £7045 heavier.
Here is a comparison of trading figures as
the p. and 1. account presents them:—
1920. 1926. 1928. 1929.
Gross profits. . 957,298 951,648 1,060,953 1,133,891
Outgoings—
Salaries, exes,
etc. .. 359,592 407,547 429,059 427,741
Depreciation .. 20,637 •
Interest .. . 98,251 123,906 129,664 126,172
Taxes ..186,241 125,147 150,343 157,388
Total outgo 664,721 656,600 709,066 711,301
Gross profits are those remaining after un-
specified amounts have been shorn off for bad
and doubtful debts and depreciation. But
what may have been a perfectly safe margin
one year may be dangerously insufficient the
next, so the estimation of possible bad debts
makes profit-writing largely guesswork. That
the board is likely to have been more con-
servative than usual in its estimate of last
year’s result may be inferred from what the
chairman told shareholders :
Without wishing to appear pessimistic, I cannot
help thinking that we shall have to look forward
to considerably reduced earnings for the next few
years. Australia will have to pass through troublous
times before it can set its house in order; hence it
behoves us to tread warily. This is no time for
expansion and development; retrenchment ar.d con-
servation of our resources must be our policy.
Evidence as to how well asset values hav<
been protected in the past is to be had from
the fact that the co. has never failed to
register a profit or pay a div. since the
public became directly interested 45 years
ago. Also, during the past decade no less
than £425,000 has been visibly struck off the
book value of premises, and thus passed to
inner reserves; and regularly the auditor
gives his assurance that ample provision
has been made for anything of a doubtful
nature.
Now look at the finances;—
Liabilities.
1923. 1928 1929
Capital .. . . £1,500,000 £2,000,000 £2,000,000
Perpetual 44 p.c.. . 499,910 749,910 749,910
„ 4 „ .. 1,725,544 1,725,544 1,725,544
Terminable 64 p.c. 300,000
„ 6 „ 4,403 —-
„ 54 „ 4,585 74,000 74,000
„ 54 „ 142,399 137,399
„ 5 ~ 40,625 236,875 214,055
„ 44 „ 7,910 24,310 18,630
Sundry creditors, etc. 2,830,846 2,632,137 2,774,237
Assets.
Advances, proper-
ties, etc. .. £3,644,976 £5,368,055 £6,203,463
Premises, etc. .. 397,217 347,167 320,025
Stock .. .. 418,347 862,858 749,554
Sundry debtors .. 870,630 1,165,632 880,961
Cash & investments 3,014,716 2,052,813 1,818,713
How t much of the trade debt can be with-
drawn at short notice is not ascertainable
from the published figures, but of every £1
coming to them sundry creditors could see
13s. Id. in cash and public securities at the
close of last accounts, and there was an-
other ss. sd. in merchandise stocks. The
big leap in advances, to finance which the
co. drew mostly upon its own liquids, indi-
cates the difficulties experienced by clients ;
and the position in this respect has
become more acute since the close of
accounts. Still the co. was in a splendid
position to extend further help.
Wool has been back to pre-war prices,
and owing to the bad season the current clip
is expected to be about 180,000 bales short
of the previous one. Recently there was a
slight recovery in the price, but to what
extent, if any, further improvement need
be looked for is doubtful. The difficulty for
the grower is to get costs into line with
fallen values. The pastoral-finance houses
hope that the extension of the selling season
will cause the burden of lifting the clip to
fall less heavily on them. Compared with
the previous year the current wheat crop
will be lighter, but prices are right. Sheep
values are about 30 p.c. down, but cattle
prices are up 25 p.c., and a 30 p.c. in-
crease is expected in butter production.
The £2O shares paid to £5, which were
at £l5 10s. on the market a year ago, re-
cently sold at £l2 10s. The return at the
latter figure is 6.8 p.c. on a 17 p.c. div. basis,
or 6 p.c. if the div. drops to 15 p.c., and
that is not much better than the return now
to be had from Government stocks. The
visible backing amounts to £lO 15s. 2d. in
net tangibles. The very strongly protected
prefs. seldom come on to the market.
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd.
To • Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1918.. 90,571 124 p.c. = 75,625 14,946 104.590
1919.. 100,866 124 „ „ 75,625 25,241 129,831
Premiums on new shares, £6906 .. 136,737
1920.. 123,365 124 p.c. = 91,595 31,770 168,507
1921.. 92,109 124 „ „ 91,595 514 169,021
1922.. 103,948 124 „ „ 91,595 12,353 181,374
1923.. 135,395 13i( „ „ 100,754 34,641 216,015
1924.. 139,941 13J „ „ 108,917 31,024 247,039
Premiums on new shares, £17,084 .. 264,123
1925.. 132,639 13f p.c. = 122,782 9,857 273,980
Premiums on new shares, £17,403.. 291,383
1926.; 139,796 13£ p.c. = 125,168 14,628 306,011
Shares in subsidiaries written up,
£455,492 761,503
Reserves capitalised, £455,492 .. 306,011
1927.. 159,103 Hi p.c. = 132,642 26,461 332,472
1928.. 154,084 10 „ ~ 139,578 14,506 346,978
Share premiums, £17,308 .. .. 364,286
1929 . . 160,637 10 p.c. = 141,909 i 8,728 383,014
Although conditions in the fruit-canning
and -preserving industry are not all they
might be —overproduction on the growing side
lias been followed by keen competition and
price cutting, mainly by Government-assisted
factories which are run at a loss —the
Henry Jones organisation continues to pros-
per. Last year the co.’s widespread interests,
which are scattered all over Australia and
Maoriland and extend to England and S.
Africa as well, sent in to the parent co.
£163,191, or £7315 more than for the year
before. Qf the increase £6375 was on account
of Australian earnings (£118,372) ; the
balance came from outside the Common-
wealth. Thus, after paying a handful of
exes. (£2554), the net result benefited by
£6553, reaching the record figure of £160,637.
Shareholders got 10 p.c., worth 15 p.c. on
capital as it stood immediately before the
gift-scrip issue of 2i years ago, and then
£18,728 visibly remained to further fertilise
the business. All the holding co.’s funds are
invested in this way with the subsidiaries,
over whose figures the curtain is kept drawn.
The chairman annually gives his assurance
that the assets are conservatively valued,
and a year ago admitted that the subsidiaries
had substantial reserves. That is to say,
the co. has not yet claimed all the profit to
which it is entitled. Just what the strength
thus hidden amounts to can, of course, only
be guessed at. All that can he said definitely
is that the admitted net earnings have stepped
along briskly with the development of the
business, keeping nicely in advance of the
mounting dividend charge; also shareholders
have had a long run of good divs., sweetened
with a 50 p.c. bonus issue, already referred
to, which was provided by writing up the
book value of the co.’s shareholdings by
£455,492, thus bringing them at least that
much nearer their real worth.
The investment market seems content to
back the management to continue success-
fully to handle the co.’s growing interests.
The co. has been a notable success. The
present co., formed by the late Henry Jones
and Arch. Palfreyman, acquired control of
some of the leading jam concerns in Hobart,
Melbourne and Sydney 20 years ago, and
there have been other local purchases and
extensions overseas since. Much of the success
has been due to the fact that the co.
stepped in where there had been waste in
buying and selling, as well as overlapping and
inefficiency in organisation, and reduced the
lot to a minimum. The development has
been most pronounced during the last decade.
Paid capital, a round half-million at the
beginning, had grown to £605,000 at the
close of accounts in 1919, the whole of the
increase being for cash. During the next 10
years no less than £824,473, including the
bonus issue, was added to the share register,
making the total £.1,429,473 at Oct. 31. For
the 12 months to that date the increase was
£33,692, of which employees put up £6OOO at
par. The other £27,692 was issued in fully
paids at a premium of 12s. 6d. per share; this
was in connection with the purchase of a jam
and fruit-canning factory previously owned by
the Government in Queensland. The deal was
made too late in the term to be of much
assistance to last year’s earnings, but the
current year’s figures are expected to benefit.
As usual all that the balance-sheet tells
shareholders about the assets is in one line
“shares and interests in jam manufacturing
and fruit cos. in the Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia, S. Africa, New Zealand and England.”
The lot are in at valuation —£2,167,191 at
Oct. 31 (up £85,468 during the year). On the
other side of the sheet the amount owing to
the associated cos., etc. (£265,362), moved up
£13,635 during the last 12 months. Since
the co. got out of the fruit-preserving busi-
ness in San Francisco about four years ago,
it has bought an additional factory in S.
Africa, taken over the Stanmore Preserving
Co., Sydney, and extended its interests to
Maoriland and Queensland. In the Dominion
the well-known jam business of Kirkpatrick
and Co., Nelson, was absorbed, and a new
factory built in the North Island.
The probabilities are the 10 p.c. div. is
safe enough, hut that an early repetition of
gift-giving need not be looked for. During
the recent depression on the sharemarket the
scrip, for which 365. Gd. was offered a
year ago, eased to 31s. 6d. At the latter
figure the return is 6.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis, while for each 1 p.c. variation on that
rate the return would be affected by 12s. 9d.
per cent. The visible backing amounts to
265. per share in net assets.
Kandos Cement (N.S.W.).
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividend. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1923.. 65,332 10 p.c. = 63,363 1,957 64,883
1924.. 109,905 10 ~ ~ 81,845 28,420 93,302
1925.. 127,829 10 „ ~ 84,232 43,592 136,894
1926.. 133,246 10 „ ~84,232 49,014 185,908
Written off shares in other cos. £25,380.. 160,528
1927.. 138,204 10 p.c. = 84,232 53,972 214,500
Written off shares in other cos. £35,000.. 179,500
1928.. 174,645 10 p.c. = 84,232 90,413 269,913
1929.. 137,898 10 „ „ 84,232 53,666 323,579
This co., whose works are at Kandos
(N.S.W.), and Australian Cement, Ltd.,
which has plant and quarries at Fyansford
(Vic.), have decided to merge their manu-
facturing interests in one operating con-
cern, Australian Portland Cement Pty.,
Ltd., which has been registered in- Victoria
with a nominal capital of £5,000,000. The
exact terms of the merger have not been
disclosed, but the vendor cos. will have an
equal holding in the working co., which
will issue scrip (and some cash to Aus-
tralian Cement, Ltd.) for the plant, free-
holds, etc., transferred. For the purpose
of the merger the undertaking of Australian
Cement is agreed to be the more valuable
business of the two, and in order to obtain
a 50 p.c. holding in the working co., Kandos
is taking up an as yet unspecified number
of shares for cash. Stocks are to be taken
over separately for cash, and the two old
cos. will collect their own existing book
debts. The new co. will operate the plants
at Kandos and Fyansford, and will thus be
able to regulate production.
Thus far Kandos and the Commonwealth
Portland Co. have divided a lion’s share
of the cement business in N. S. Wales; also
Kandos was the second largest supplier on
the Victorian market. But it made little,
if any, profit on its Victorian business in
connection with which freight and handling
charges alone are said to have cost the co
about £20,000 p.a. Under the new scheme
the output of each plant can be controlled
to the best advantage, and the consumer
as well as the shareholder may benefit
The Kandos plant, etc. (in the books at
£716,665, down £25,671 during the term),
has a capacity of 200,0U0 tons p a., and is
regularly reported in good condition; also
additional machinery has been constantly
bought to keep the undertaking up-to-date.
Plant, buildings, etc., of Australian Cement,
Ltd., stood in its books at £747.495 at Nov.
30. 1928, and production capacity was then
the same as the Kandos co.’s. The new
working co. will thus own plant capable of
turning out at least 400,000 tons of cement
a year, or slightly less than a third of the
total plant capacity of the whole Australian
industry (about 1,350,000 tons p.a.).
Early in December Australian Cement,
Ltd., bought all the shares in National Port-
land Cement, Ltd. (100,000 8-10 p.c. cum.
prefs. and 278,500 ords.), for 10,570 of its
own ords.—one each for every 20 National
prefs and 50 National ords. That was
equal to Is. 9d. per pref. and Bd. per ord.
share on the basis of the market price of
the Australian co.'s scrip at the time the
offer was made. The National co.’s plant
at Maria Island (Tas.) has been shut down
indefinitely; its capacity is 30,000 tons p.a.,
but it has long been a losing proposition,
the co. having accumulated a deficit of over
£lOO,OOO at June 30 last. The position then
was that the co. owed £88,866, of which
£76,132 was coming to the bank. It had
£35,976 in stocks, book debts and cash to
meet it; plant was in at £273,019; freehold.
£57,359. The cause of the National co.’s
failure was mainly one of costs. Tasmanian
consumption was not sufficient to keep the
plant fully employed, so most of the out-
put had to be shipped to Victoria and else-
where. Lately the co.’s earnings were scarcely
sufficient to meet the heavy overhead and
working exes, before providing for deprecia-
tion, which is a heavy item in this class of
business. Exactly what the Australian co. pro-
poses to do with this proposition the “Wild
Cat” does not know, but whispers have
been heard that part of the plant is to be sold
and the balance transferred to Victoria.
Kandos Cement, Ltd., lias a paid capital of
£842,328, and Australian Cement, Ltd., is
capitalised at £750,005. Though Kandos
reserves are equal to 7s. Bd. per £1 of its
paid capital, and its disclosed earnings last
year were equal to 16.4 p.c. on capital, its
scrip is priced at only 245. 3d. on the market,
as against 355. for that of Australian
Cement, Ltd., which visibly netted 12.6 p.c.
on capital for the 12 months to Nov. 30,
1928, and whose disclosed reserves were
then equal to only Is. sd. per share net. But
Australian Cement, which is probably more
snugly positioned than its accounts disclosed,
is adding a new unit to its plant.
For its last term Kandos reported trade
well maintained. The drop of £36,747 in
the year’s profit as per table was due to
the fact that in 1928 the co.’s holding in
the Newcastle Slag Cement Co. was written
down £35,000 from an undisclosed source;
this amount was included with the year’s
profits in the table and then written off. Last
year’s £137,898 is only £1748 less than the
amount actually claimed by the previous
year’s accounts.
Combined earnings of the Kandos and Aus-
tralian cos. during their last fiscal period were
equal to 13.7 p.c. on their combined capitals.
Yellow Express Carriers, Ltd.
Gross Net Towards
Profit. Profit. Dividend. Reserves. Deficit.
Til TIP I? P f? i?
1927*.. 12,758 7289 Nil 7289 71,570
Added goodwill, £7314 .. 78,914
1928.. 23,209 5696 Nil 5696 73,218
1929.. 29,434 9947 Nil 9947 63,271
Ever since it was formed, a little over three
years &go, the trading results of this bulk-
haulage and light-delivery co. of Sydney and
Melbourne have been disappointing. The
promoters, P { W. Tewkesbury and M.
Shmitli. were directors of Yellow Cabs of
Australia; except for that there were
no direct relations between the two cos.
But inasmuch as Yellow Cab scrip was still
at a high premium on the market, the public
was content to back the promoters, and paid
as much as 3s. for the rights to this Express
co.’s scrip, and the 500,000 £1 ords. offered
were quickly over-subscribed.
From the outset shareholders have got
nothing out of the business; on the other
hand they have had to pay calls and watch
their scrip decline in value, or sell out at a
heavy loss. The underwriting commission and
■brokerage (together 10 p.c. of the nominal
amount of capital subscribed) were heavy—
heavier than they need have been, consider-
ing the quick response from the public. The
co. thus started off burdened with £50,000
of preliminary exes., equal to 24 p.c. of the
initial paid capital. Then, competition being
keen, the co. found it necessary to absorb
the business of J. B. Davis, the railway car-
rier, in order to get a footing in Sydney. The
price paid was not disclosed, but it appa-
rently included £23,000 for goodwill. Also, in
the 1928 term, the business of the Melbourne
Carrying Co. was absorbed and an extra
£7304 added to the goodwill item, making
total intangibles £80,344 at June 30, 1928.
A three years’ contract with the Sydney
Wool Selling Brokers’ Association was
secured, and work commenced thereon in
September, 1927. At first the co. did not
have the equipment necessary to handle this
(Continued on page 16.)


ap J
BUICK*
the name that stands for
Stamina and Reliability
FOR twenty-six years the motor cars
built by Buick have been more ac-
claimed for trustworthy performance and
dependability than any cars in history.
The confidence motorists place in
Buick is due to the fact that it never
sulks; it is always so ready and willing;
it performs so faithfully.
The 1930 Buick more than main-
tains this Buick reputation for depen-
dability. It has all the qualities which
have gained for Buick world leader-
ship—plus a wealth of motoring advan-
tages never before combined in any
one car.
There is the new Buick engine, which
imparts such unrivalled getaway, speed,
and hill-climbing power. There 2 re
the new Servo internal 4-wheel brakes,
providing smooth, positive braking con-
trol. Matchless riding comfort and
driving ease arc given by the double
action shock absorbers and the new
steering shock eliminator. And, finally,
the superb new body lines—longer,
lower, infinitely more graceful, including
the new non-glare windscreen for safe
night driving.
All over Australia motorists are com-
paring the 1930 Buick with other
cars—in looks, in performance, in the
vital factors of comfort, safety, and all-
round satisfaction—and more people
are buying Buicks to-day than ever
before in Buick history 1
iw
fi
a*
>
>
PRICES from £445
Prices given subject to change without notice.
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR.
Convenient payments can be arranged on the liberal G.M.A.C. Terms Plan.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
GENERAL MOTORS (Australia) Pty. Ltd.
Brisbane Sydney Melbourne * Adelaide f Perth
for
1930
It’s a General Motors Car -
look inside and note the difference


Roof your House with Tiies
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter S Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W
Who Will Manage Your Estate?
At all times when an individual is appointed as Executor or Trustee
the uncertainty of human life is present. Who is better qualified to
administer your Estate than the
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED.
It cannot die, travel or disappear; has had over 40 years’ experience
in the management of all classes of Estates, and offers as security the
whole of its capital and assets —over £1,000,000.
Our Explanatory Booklet will be
sent to you Post Free on Request.
DIRECTORS:
THOS. BUCKLAND
JAMES MOIR
F. N. YARWOOD
(Chairman)
0. E. FRIEND
Lt.-Col. T. F. RUTLEDGE
J. W. Barnes, Manager.
E. V. T. Whittle, Asst. Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
WHAT WILL
1930 BE?
Are things going to
be bad?
How bad?
What should the In-
vestor do?
Can he save himself?
If so, how?
In these uncertain
days every investor
even though it be only
in a life insurance
policy owes it to him-
self and his family to
keep himself informed.
Let the “Wild Cat
Monthly” help you.
JANUARY NUMBER
NOW ON SALE
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM,
22/6. From newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
s** . *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * * *
The outstanding advantages of Pioneer Wood Pipe
over metal pipe are recognised by leading engineers
all over Australia. Pioneer Wood Pipe is non-
corrosive—its flow actually increases with years of
use. It is extremely durable and gives long, trouble-
free service. It is unaffected by extremes of heat
or cold and is resistant to the destroying effects of
electrolysis. Being light, it is easily and cheaply
handled, freighted, transported and laid. Write for
illustrated catalogue to The Australian Wood Pipe
Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge),
Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at Footscray, Victoria.
—Advt.
$ * $ $
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradieator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
* * * #
' Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
INSURER WITH THE
I
Australian General
Insurance Company Ltd
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
1 1 7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
AG EX'IS WAX TED WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
big job, so outside carriers had to be em-
ployed, and no profit was derived from the
contract during this time. Nor, apparently,
has it turned in much since; from the begin-
ning net earnings from all sources have
totalled only £22,932, reducing the deficit on
shareholders’ account to £63,271 net at June
30 last.
In July shareholders decided to lighten
the load by cancelling 3s. of the amount paid
up on each of the 498,700 £1 ords. This will
give the co. a clean sheet and £11,399 of
reserves < besides. The reduction having been
sanctioned by the Court, paid capital is
now £248,900 in 497,800 17s. ords. paid to
10s. There is a forfeited shares reserve of
£9OO. The cut in capital will not make profit-
earning any easier—depreciation will have
to be allowed for as before. But with capital
now represented by tangible assets share-
holders have a better chance of getting into
the picture.
For the 12 months to June 30 last gross
profit (£29,434) improved £6225, but exes.
(£19,489) took £1974 of the increase; thus
the net result (£9947) was £4251 better.
Still it was only 4 p.c. on paid capital as
reduced. The board blames the timber strike.
The management has been lately giving
more attention to other branches of the
carrying business, and further contracts have
been secured in Sydney. In Melbourne a
citv and suburban parcel-delivery service has
been put into operation, and a customs and
shipping department added to the co.’s activi-
ties. As a consequence turnover there is said
to have substantially increased, and the
motor fleet has grown from 63 to 104 during
the year. It is not clear whether all the in-
crease represents new vehicles ; 20 were on
order when the 1928 accounts closed, but
some may have been transferred from the
Sydney service.
Here are balance-sheet figures; they do
not reflect the reconstruction of capital,
which lies this side of the close of accounts :
1927. 1928 1929.
Paid capital .. .. £206,415 £323,690 £323,570
Mortgages . . . . 20,000 20,000 20,000
Sundry creditors .. 37,395 7,562 12,205
Freeholds .. .. 67,287 113,584 112,021
Plant, etc 42,768 120,681 132,639
Debtors 9,396 18,752 30,738
Cash, etc 72,700 26,968 19,089
Intangibles . . . . 73,000 80,344 75,344
There is nothing uneasy about the finances.
During the year the co. sold its South Mel-
bourne property, and there was £5750 owing
on the deal at June 30. On the other hand
the garage buildings in North Melbourne
have been doubled in size; thus freeholds
show a net drop of only £1563. Plant, etc.
(£132.639), is up £11,958, and debtors, etc.
(£30,738, including the amount owing from
the property sale), were £11,986 greater. The
amounts written off for depreciation each
year have not been disclosed; provision is
made before gross profits are arrived at. But
the report states that ample allowance has
been made, and much depends upon that.
Shareholders are also assured that the
vehicles continue to give satisfaction.
The lOs.-paids have a backing of approxi-
mately 10s. 6d. in net tangibles, mostly
plant, freeholds, etc. But the market, which
looks at what these assets have earned,
prices the scrip at ss.
0.T., Ltd. (Vic.).
Nominal
Net To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1923.. 15,358 8.3 p.c. = 11,133 4,335 43,041
1-924.. 13,107 6.6 „ „ 8,907 4,200 47,241
1925.. 20,039 10 „ „ 13,360 6,679 53,920
1926.. 42,277 20 „ „ 26,720 15,557 69,477
1927.. 38,438 20 „ „ 26,720 11,718 81,195
Written off, £5500 . . . . 75,695
Prefs. Ords.
8 p.c. 20 p.c.
1928.. 36,427 2000 26,720 7,707 83,402
Written off, £2OOO . . . . 81,402
Shares in other cos. written up
£133,598 and that amount capi-
talised .. .. .. .. 81,402
Surplus on sale London busi-
ness, £228,989 . . . . 310,391
10 p.c.
1929.. 29,563 2000 26,720 843 311,234
The most outstanding event in the co.’s his-
tory last year was the sale of its London
business, Kia Ora, Ltd., to an English co. for
£410,000. The deal was for cash and the
profit on the transaction figures in the
accounts at £228,989. Actually the profit
was not less than £362,587, the difference
of £133,598 being the amount by which Kia
Ora shares were written up in the parent's
books to provide a 100 p.c. gift scrip issue
to the ords. shortly after the close of
accounts in 1928. What an amazing money-
spinner the London business had become!
Profits are certified at £45,287 net for the
year to Sept. 30, 1925; £29,481, 1926;
£35,489, 1927; £62,667, 1928. The average
over the last four years was thus £43,291,
or over 91 p.c. on the figure which O.T.
placed upon the scrip in its own books, and
more than 10 p.c. on the sale price.
The deal has placed the co. in a unique
position. Out of the profit it has been able
to double its ordinary capital, making it
£267,197, and from what was left it could
return the whole of the prof, money (£25,000,
got in two years ago to finance expansion
of the co.’s Australian business), pay a
cash dividend of 15s. 4d. per ord. share, and,
on the figures at June 30, still have net tan-
gible assets with a book value £47,381 in
excess of the ord. capital as increased by
the bonus issue.
The board has not yet decided how it will
deal with this large cash surplus. Local
interests are to be extended, and £20,000
has already been spent on the erection and
equipment of a new factory in Sydney.
Also it is considered that there are good
opportunities for the manufacture of steri-
lised wax-paper food-containers here; and
presently a new co. with a nominal capital
of £50,000 will be formed for the purpose.
O.T. will put up one-h*alf of the capital re-
quired ; the English concern from which the
Australian rights were bought will subscribe
the other half. The duty on these con-
tainers was recently increased to 60 p.c.,
and plant capable of supplying Australian
requirements is on order. Apparently the
board intends to wait and see how the new
industry develops before distributing any of
the cash holding.
Now that the co. has ceased to receive
the handsome returns formerly obtained from
its English business, an important ques-
tion is: What are dividend prospects? For
the past year the rate for the ords was cut
in halves; but, owing to the gift issue, the
10 p.c. called for exactly the same amount as
20 p.c. did in the previous term. Visibly
there was then little to spare. The net
totals were:—
1924. 1926. 1928. 1929.
Australian— £ £ £
Net trading profit 4,065 14,048 13,348 10,167
Dividends, etc. 42 1,611 2,979 3,523
Foreign—
Dividends . . 10,000 30,000 30,000 24,723
Thus the board wrote last year’s net profit
(it included divs. from Kia Ora for the 12
months to Sept 30, 1928) at £38,413, or
£7914 less than the previous year’s. But
that was disregarding £3OOO struck off for
depreciation, and £5850 that disappeared
from the contingency reserve. On the figures
as the accounts presented them, Australian
profits (£13,690) fell away £2636; after
attending to the pref. requirements the
balance was only 4.1 p.c. on the ord. capital.
On that basis, and assuming that the co.’s
San Francisco business, which has thus far
been disappointing, fails to contribute to
the pool, an extra £15,030 of profit will be
required during the current term to maintain
a 10 p.c. div. on the ords. The additional
requirements are, however, equal to only
3.6 p.c. on the full £410,000 of English pur-
chase money, part of which will be invested
in the new enterprise, and much will depend
upon how the venture turns out.
Goodwill, etc., remains unaltered at
£59,864. That it is worth a lot more recently
became obvious from the board’s refusal of
an American offer of 2,000,000 dollars for
the co.’s Australian and other assets and
rights not included in the sale to the English
co. It suggests that the board is very con-
fident indeed about the result of future
developments.
Balance-sheet figures reflect the year’s
activities: —
1924. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital. . £133,599 £140,387 £158,599 £292,197
Sundry creditors 27,930 21,922 17,609 39,303
Premises . . 18,380 22,722 16,609 28,202
Plant, etc. . . 19,500 27,947 33,133 35,745
Shares, etc. .. 47,455 63,389 65,473 20,530
Sundry debtors 41,270 56,749 63,280 56,254
Stock . . 26,534 40,523 54,932 63,121
Cash, etc. .. 5,842 4,693 40 412,740
The new Sydney factory was mainly re-
sponsible for the increase of £11,593 in the
premises item; but only £2612 more was
spent on plant than was written off. The
more or less liquid surplus (£492,812, in-
cluding stocks) was £392,169 stronger than
at the previous balance.
Disappointed in its expectations of an
immediate cash bonus, the market, which
priced the ords. at 565. 6d. a few months
ago, recently paid 50s. and thereabouts. At
that figure the immediate return is only
4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The visible
backing amounts to 38s. lOd. in net tangibles.
The very strongly protected 8 p.c. cum. prefs.
seldom come on to the market.
Away back in the beginnings of Broken
Hill, Andrew Stenhouse started to satisfy
the hunger of the mines for timber. The
only wood in the neighborhood was mulga,
and that was soon exhausted; then a little
hardwood was brought from S. Australia;
after that all was Oregon. With the arrival
of W. H. Patton from Comstock, the square-
set system was developed; and sawn timber
was shoved in by the shipload. Stenhouse’s
timber business was presently turned over
to the Globe Co., whose manager at Port
Piric, C. J. Miller, retired at the end of
1929. Practically all the shipments were
made to Pirie, where Miller has put through
no less than 264,000,000 super, feet of mine
timber. He estimates that the total quan-
tity shoved into the mines has been
484.000,000 super, feet of oregon and
27,000,000 super, feet of hardwood.
The mines don’t eat timber like they did:
managers have found less expensive and also
less combustible materials for permanent
pillars. Still even now from 12 to 15 mil-
lion super, feet a year are consumed.
* * * *
Mines are not what they used to be —
thank God! At Broken Hill they are mak-
ing them still less like the abominable
caverns granddad worked in. At the Zinc
Corporation’s South Blocks, the timbermen
and truckers can wear leather gloves if they
want them, and they are encouraged to want
them. It isn’t wholly philanthropy that is
at the back of this newest development:
C. G. Hylton, the superintendent, reckons it
pays by saving time lost through minor
abrasions and cuts.
But the gloves are only a small item in the
Zinc Corp.’s welfare service. It has pretty
well reticulated the main underground work-
ings, and drinking water is laid on at foun-
tains of the bubble pattern. And every
level has its crib shelters, where the under-
ground men can wash their hands and eat in
reasonable comfort.
* * * *
“Ivupe” (New Guinea) : A gold find is
reported from the big island of Bougain-
ville, which used to be part of the German
Solomons. It is a reefing proposition, and
a square mile of leases have been pegged
by the Solomon Island Gold Mining Co.,
which includes Bob Palmer and Jack Comb,
who have both had Edie Creek experience.
The location is some six to eight hours’
climb west of Kieta; most of the way along
the old German expeditionary track on which
Fritz went fossicking some years before the
war and unearthed attractive mineral speci-
mens, including gold, copper and tin. There
has been wild pegging by local residents,
and already the co.’s leases are enclosed to
an extent of 22 chains. Thus far no alluvial
of any value has been found. It is a pro-
position for big money or a gamble that the
parent co. may feel disposed later to take
over leases outside their own area. The
gold is worth £3 Os. per oz.
* * * *
“Old Warden”: Latest advices from
Salamoa confirm earlier reports that New
Guinea Goldfields, which now controls most
of the Edie Creek field, has been making heavy
reductions in staff and personnel. The earlier
optimism seems to have vanished in a mea-
sure, especially as regards the much-heralded
scheme of building a railway to the field
along the Markham Valley. Speaking of
this matter to a meeting of Mining Trust,
Ltd., in London recently, chairman Leslie
Urquhart told his hearers that, though the
transport problem was important, it was
not insurmountable. It is now suggested
that the mountain field be connected with
the beach by an aerial tramway, which is
to handle about 2000 tons a day. Nothing
was said of the vehicular road which the
New Guinea Administration is supposed to
be constructing; but by all accounts it will
be many a long day before anything comes
of that, as might have been expected.
* * *
“Pyrites” : Touching on the importance of
improved transport in the development of
Centralian mining fields (B. l/l/’3O), the
annual report of the Government Resident
at Alice Springs says the opening of the
railway to that point has already had a
marked influence on mining activities. For
one thing, it has reduced the price of petrol
by one-half, while the production of mica in
the Hart Ranges has jumped from 25,0001 b.
in 1927-2 S to 45,0001 b. in 1925-29. Wol-
fram mining, helped by the rise in price,
has also taken on fresh life. Also, a com-
pany has been formed to work a deposit of
potassium nitrate at the western end of the
McDonnell Ranges. There has been a lot
of prospecting, not only at Tanami, but at
the Granites, some 60 miles south of the
old Tanami field, and a number of gold-
mining leases have been pegged.
*• * * *
Ratrut Basin continues on its way of
woe. It has now issued a circular asking
debenture holders to postpone their demand
for redemption payments of £14,000 due in
April next till April, 1935, and the repay-
ment of £14,000 due in April, 1931, to
October of the same year. One effect of
this, if agreed to, will be to give holders an
additional five years’ interest at 20 p.c.
p.a. on the debentures due next April, and
a further six months’ interest on the deben-
tures payable in 1931 —assuming, of course,
that there’s the money to do it with.
In all 70,000 £1 debentures were issued to
shareholders in February last, and it was not
anticipated there would be any trouble in
meeting the repayments. Output was below
expectations, however, while the fall in metal
prices aggravated the situation. No 1
dredge has been doing well, though it has
for a period been working out tailings from
the vendor’s old open-cut mine. No. 2 has
been disappointing; unexpected cemented
wash was struck and proved very difficult
to dig. The dredge has continued in this
ground, since most of the metal values are
in it, but output has been restricted, and
costs consequently high. From May to
the middle of December, the average monthly
yardage has been 48,000, and the recovery
174 tons, so values are good—l.o9lb. of oxide
per yard. The estimated recovery was 60
tons per month from a turnover of 150,000
yards. As matters stand there can be no
improvement with this dredge for some
months, though it is expected that the two
plants will recover 70 tons a month from
now onward. No. 1 recovered 120 tons
during the quarter ended Dec. 31, and aver-
ages have been good, the figure for the
three months working out at 1.741 b. This
Melbourne-built dredge is 15 years old, and
at its top had a capacity of only 80,000
yards per month. When the big new plant
with its 150,000 yards turnover gets into
easier ground, the clouds should begin to
roll by.
* * * *
Wiluna Gold Mines (W.A.) has now a
railway at its door and about a million
tons of ore reserves; but before its treat-
ment and power-plants are completed and
production begins, an, additional quarter-
million pounds or thereabouts will have to
be expended. The co.’s chief backers —two
wealthy South African concerns —will have
to raise the money with or without the help
of Wiluna shareholders. Meanwhile the
market is off-color.
* * * *
Perth and Kalgoorlie have been picking
up shares in the new Golden Horseshoe as
if the huge tailings dump which the co.
possesses was the best gold mine in the
West. The expected net return is Is. 6d.
to 2s. a ton, and there are between two and
three million tons to put through the plant.
*


Poverty
Point
THE MIRACLE-WORKERS.
CHORUS: “We want more jam on our bread!”
MOTHER: “But I tell you I haven’t got any more jam. You better go to Mr. Beeby or one of them arbitration lawyers.
They’re the only ones that can get more jam out of a pot than’s in it.”
“Barnacle Bill”: Before W. M. Hughes
got mixed up in Australian politics he was
for a while a super knight in George Rig-
nold’s company, which at the time was play-
ing Henry Y. There was an abundance
of discontent in the lower ranks, and one
night, after leaving the field of Agincourt,
it was decided to bail George Rignold up
under threat of a lightning strike. The
spokesman was a big fellow and after he’d
had his say, George chucked him down an
adjacent flight of stairs, and called for
the next. Billy stepped forward, armor and
accoutrements complete. “Any complaints—
you?” boomed George Rignold. “None, Mr.
Rignold,” declared the little William, “the
subject is closed,” and he pulled his visor
down with a clang. The rest of the troops
didn’t question the decision. Billy always
was a leader.
“Caesar's Ghost” : The current story that
Caruso’s body, splendidly embalmed so as
to retain a lifelike appearance, is disinterred
every third year, dressed in the latest fashion
of clothes, and then re-coffined recalls that
he always was vain about his clothes. One
recital night in America he was discovered
ramping up and down moaning that he could
not sing. A packed house, as usual, was
waiting, and an alarmed manager, fearful
that the great voice had gone, asked agon-
ised questions. “No, no! It is not that!”
Caruso cried. “But look at the cut of the
coat that miserable tailor has sent me!”
It took a host of persuasion to induce him
to face his audience in the despised garment.
“Lamia” (Penang) : British Malaya has
had a run of good shows in 1929. “Rookery
Nook,” “Thark,” “The Ghost Train,”
“Clowns in Clover,” “Rose Marie” (sadly
lacking in chorus), and, finest show and
best box-office attraction of them all,
“Journey’s End,” are samples. A season of
Carpe’s Italian Opera Co. drew- big houses,
and Pavlova and Kubelik shone brightly in
each of the big Malayan centres, though
Kubelik, still a magician with the fiddle,
failed to secure good houses. The Cherni-
avsky brothers had still worse luck. Though
their music was, as always, excellent, in
one town they broke a record by attracting
just 15 to the reserved seats and a mere
sprinkling to the unreserved. Contributing
factors included a recent surfeit of shows,
a lack of musical appreciation, the fact that
a huge P. and O. was in port that night,
and the slump in rubber and tin.
“Cauboy”: The retirement of Frances
Alda from the Metropolitan Opera- Co. in
New York after 22 years’ distinguished ser-
vice confirms my suspicion that that lady,
like many another, returned to Australia,
not, as was claimed, at the height of her
powers, but near the nadir thereof. For
sentimental reasons one would have no
objection to that had not the lady displayed
all the arrogance and impatience of criticism
of a Melba in full blossom of her talents.
Alda’s visit was a very melancholy epi-
sode. Failing to attract the attention that
she regarded as her due with a programme
of good music, she lowered her standards
until she got down to the level of an inciden-
tal soprano at the Tivoli. When she was
twitted on the subject she retorted that she
had done it by request of her audiences and
added some caustic remarks about the taste
of her fellow-countrymen. Considering that
not one person in a hundred ever troubles
to send in a request for particular items,
Madame’s concessions to popular taste
hardly indicated the courage of an artist.
“Adam Ant”: Rupert, our property-man
on that tour, was a shockingly sozzled per-
son. He was baggage-master and character
actor as well as props, but he was equally
blotto in any capacity. Business was bad,
and we just managed to get to Sudden Jerk
for the race night. We played “Living or
Dead” for our opening bill, on which hung
the fate of the tour. Everything depended
on the sensational and realistic fire scene,
which cost us our very last bob for methy-
lated spirits. I was the heavy, and Bill
Ramage was the juvenile, and our tensest
encounter was to have its climax in the
fire scene. We worked up to it for all we
were worth, but when the cue came the
conflagration didn’t, and we had a very tame
curtain. Bill dashed off to find out what
was wrong. He discovered Rupert peace-
fully snoring on the thunder-sheet. Rupert
had drunk our marvellous fire scene.
“Hamfat”: Escapologist and magician
Murray is back in London, doing a star act.
Only a few years ago he was struggling with
very bad success through the smalls of
Australia. At Mackay (Bananaland) he
fell upon the worst of luck through having
juggled with some cheques on an optimistic
estimate of the night’s “house.” The
cheques were a paltry matter, but the
public only paid 355. to see the show and
Murray’s share was half. A Magicians’
Club acquaintance in Sydney squared the
cheques and then put real management
into, what had been merely a personal
scrape-through. After several weeks Murray
had sufficient money to fulfil his ambition of
going to England, and in a few months he
was a star feature at the Coliseum. The
Tivoli paid £l5O per week for his act when
it brought him back a couple of years ago,
only five years after he had gone through
his Queensland troubles.
“Ticket-Snatcher”: Re “L.H.P.’s” query
concerning the London yarn that critic Alfred
Moul was belted by Maggie Moore (B.
25/12/’29). It was her brother Jimmy Moore
who whipped Moul for a condemnation of
Maggie’s acting. Moore was fined for
assaulting the future London Alhambra mag-
nate. The trouble happened nearer to 50
than 40 years ago.
“Cauboy”: Like a generous gentleman,
The Bulletin’s Sydney Showman, - as a
result of a peep behind the scenes, paid a
handsome tribute (B. 25/12/’29) to the
improved morality of actors. He said, in
effect, that a worthy band of industrious
workers, too busy even to think of worldly
things, have been sadly maligned by the
talkies. They have. Nevertheless, the con-
ventions —I will not say morals —of stage
folk are not inevitably the same as those of
ordinary suburbans. Different soils produce
different fruit and the conventions of the
stage sometimes blossom from the stage’s
peculiar conditions. As far as I know
those conditions haven’t perceptibly altered
since a century or tw r o ago. Necessity throws
people together for a space and Necessity
(or the entrepreneur) separates them. Not
long since I introduced to a vaudeville pro-
ducer a lady who had made her mark in
amateur circles and was eager to give a
wider audience the benefit of her talents.
She had prepared a ten-minute turn, which
only needed a male assistant to place it on a
circuit. The producer asked her if she had
secured a suitable person. She hadn’t, but
she thought that the noted professional, Mr.
Blank, would be just the man —or alterna-
tively Mr. Dash or Mr. Stroke. “First rate,”
rejoined the producer, “but of course you
would have to live with them.” The reper-
tory lady hadn’t thought of that, and passion
for the commercial boards suddenly wilted.
“Sock”: S’George Tallis told an inter-
viewer last week that the activities of the
Firm are to be reduced by half, “as a conse-
quence of the imposition of Federal and
State amusement taxation.” Anyone with
a habit of looking must have known that i
something had to happen to somebody before
long Theatres have been either closed or
half-full for the best part of the year.
S’George told why when he went on to say
that talkies would be continued at the Royal 1
and that Her Majesty’s would be wired for ]
the new entertainment. Grand opera, it was
also mentioned, would be no more. Con- 1
sidering that the last opera season involved ;
a loss of £35,000, that closure does not seem ,
inseparably connected with the brand-new
tax either. 1
“First Robber”: Cecil Ward, whose real
name, it seems, was Ward Barrett, left an
estate valued at £26,489. In the golden
days of Brough and Boucicault Cecil was
always regarded as a bit “near” by his
fellow players. I met an old pro. on the
Melbourne Point the other day who recalled
putting the acid on Cecil, but before he d
got three words out he was countered by
a curt, “I never lend money under any
circumstances.” Few of us have the courage
to say that to the earbiter. I always re-
member Cecil Ward as the anaemic lord in
“The Amazons,” and he gave fine perform-
ances as D’Artagnan in “The King’s Mus-
keteer,” in “John o’ Dreams” and scores of
other plays. Probably h«f was the best all-
round”mummer we have had in Australia.
“Spokeshave”: Somerset Maugham’s “The
Land of Promise” is to succeed Vosper’s
engaging “Murder on the Second Floor” at
Melbourne Comedy. Leon Gordon is steadily
improving his standard, though, of course,
there’s no telling when he may flop again.
“John B.”: Robert Nicholson, who scored
as basso in “The Messiah,” put on by Mel-
bourne Philharmonics on Christmas Eve, was
a Lithgow (N.S.W.) miner until August,
when he won a scholarship at Melbourne
Conservatorium. He is young, _ and those
who ought to know predict a bright future
for him.
“Gagman”: Australian Jack Farrow is
now a leading writer and script doctor for
Paramount. He worked with Fred Niblo at
the M.-G.-M. studios before the Paramount
people signed him up. Among other jobs
he wrote the screen play of “The Wheel of
Life,” in which South Australian Otto
Heggie performed so well.
“A”: About the quaintest item in the
brilliantly successful “Warrior” pageant
(Collisson-Duffield) in Adelaide was the
poison-gas in the lurid battle-scene at the
start. University professional skill had gone
to devising a green vapor that should look
deadly yet be guaranteed harmless. This
latter point was important, for the stuff con-
sistently made for the audience and billowed
from stalls to gallery. Never was a stage
effect “got across the footlights” so con-
vincingly.
“C. Ma.”: I am unable to join in tho
chorus of critical appreciation of the music
the local Jack O’Hagan has contributed to
“Turned Up,” the new musicomedy at Mel-
bourne Royal. If there is one thing worse
than an American singing negro melodies it
is an Australian imitating an American sing-
ing negro melodies, and in the latter cate-
gory belongs the Australian composer who
writes imitations of American imitations of
negro melodies for Australians to sing.
O’Hagan has a natural gift for song-writing,
and it is a pity he does not give it rein in
a more individual manner. Possibly he is a
prisoner of his public. He has sold over
2,000,000 copies of his compositions.
“Aristophanes”: Hollywood is shrewdly
exploiting the voice of the Britisher in
talkies. In “Behind That Curtain” the
stars, Lois Moran and Warner Baxter, were
about the only Americans in the cast;
“Strange Cargo” also had only two, and the
cast of “Mrs. Cheyney” was 99 per cent.
British, Norma Shearer hailing originally
from Canada, and Basil Rathbone, the male
lead,' from S’Africa. Conversely “Black
Waters,” described as the “first English
talkie,” had a Londoner in Alfred Hitchcock
as director, and a cast whose voices were
decidedly of the Bronx. Incidentally, when
that fine British product “Blackmail” was
shown in the States, a writer in the San
Francisco Chronicle described it as “re-
freshingly different because of the pleasant
sound of English voices.”
“Wilhal”: Christopher Morley and Cleon
Throckmorton, proprietors of the Rialto,
Hoboken (U.S.A.), have placed above the
box-office a plaque with this inscription:
“In memory of Dion Boucicault; Dublin,
1822; New York, 1890. H'is melodrama,
‘After Dark,’ revived here December 10,
1928, brought an old theatre back to life
and restored a fine tradition to the stage.”
The play was still running, with eight months
already to its credit, when this tribute was
paid. I known of no other stage work that
1 has revived so successfully so long after it
was written, nor of a like example of
managerial appreciation.
ART ARTICULATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Clara Bow, the ‘lt’ girl of the screen, is tired
of being Clara Bow. ‘l’m all washed up with this
boloney,’ she told a London paper. ‘I want to do
some real acting.’ ”
Shame on the callous. clods that sit
Through reels of riot, never guessing
She harbors more than “pep” and “it”
And readiness for rare undressing!
Shame on the graceless louts that gloat
Upon a figure far from bony,
Nor catch the sob that’s in her throat—
“l’m all washed up with this boloney!”
See on what sore despondency
She falls, whom millions are acclaiming;
H’ark to her bid for sympathy,
Her sharp reproof our dulness shaming.
What man more feeling than a mole
Can turn deaf ear when such a groan he
Hears from a racked artistic soul—-
“I’m all washed up with this boloney!”
And though the phrase may leave you
stunned,
Recall, before you fall to mocking,
That Homer nodded, Shakspeare punned,
And genius all has lapses shocking.
She may have the diviner flair,
Although she prances like a pony ;
She may be a Bernhardt more rare,
Although “washed up with this boloney!”
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


fTWH
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Virectors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDEK, Hon. J. A. BoVD.
Total Assets exceed . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOML REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
tl) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Asnociation and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost eveiy contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN'S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men t- integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary. GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The New Moon”
Criterion “Journey’s End”
Palace “In the Next Room”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Royal “Turned Up”
New Comedy “Murder on the Second Floor”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt's Movies and Talkies
State ... Movies and Talkies
“Journey's End,” introduced „t.o Sydney
Criterion on Saturday, leaves one clear im-
pression—it is possible to feel better for
having seen it. An average onlooker might
feel proud of having been. Stanhope for an
hour.. Perhaps he might feel glad, too, that
such an avowed peace friend as the Itev.
T. E. Ruth can put the adjective “snivelling”
in front of Hibbert —“a snivelling coward,”
he calls him in a manly review reprinted in
the programme. Like most of its family, the
adjective is a redundancy. All cowards snivel.
But, pending correction from the reverend
gentleman who has so generously praised a
fine piece of art, this Showman believes his
adjective springs straight from the heart. A
feeling for manliness overcomes the peace
propagandist, and he condemns in a word
what every man loathes —cowardice. It is a
relief to meet even a brave word in this time
of puppy whimpering.
The play is so fine that it tempts super-
latives. It is magnificently acted and pro-
duced. Diggers will accept it because it has
art enough to convince them that it is true —
that the war in France actually was, like
this ; that old hands in the line would care
enough to be so theatrical; that it is a
“transcript from life.” It can be commended
to those who would have been but couldn’t;
for author Sheriff knows that multitude and
has a soldier friendliness for it. It can be
commended to those who wouldn’t have been
at any price, for cowards are exonerated in
it. And it can be commended to those who
believe the Great War was the Great Peace,
for they will believe anything. For instance,
the Rev. Mr. Ruth calls it “as powerful a
peace sermon as can be preached.” Yet what
is there in it to prevent or even retard war?
The playwright’s rugged contemporary Re-
marque told a reviewer the other day that
he had killed the hero of “All Quiet,” so
that “youth reading the book would not think
it a glorification of war.” In “Journey’s End”
there is not even the killing of the hero, for,
of course, the boy Raleigh doesn’t hold that
honorable post. The hero is Stanhope, a
JOSIE MELVILLE, in “Turned Up,” at Melbourne Royal.
whisky-soaking but courageous captain, and
his career is one likely to attract if not
inflame any youth with the mere “g” of
guts in him.
There is a scattered usage of the great
Australian adjective in the play which wins
the Rev. Mr. Ruth’s approval. At least, he
is picturesque enough to repeat it.
T.hat the play would be as good without it
seems doubtful, though, as with all stage
“swearing,” it drags self-consciousness into
the air every time it gets loose. A mere
“damn” has a monstrous emphasis on the
stage, which doesn’t attach to, say, “prig,”
quite the most effective swear in the piece.
Bullockies ought to add it to their repertoire.
Many an off-leader would pull _ better for
having been called a prig. The reiteration of
the gore word becomes monotonous, especially
since the play, as with all art, is greatest
for what is not said. Stanhope’s silence
when young Raleigh is killed is infinitely
greater iyd than his subsequent sobbing, a
concession to sentimentalism that rather jars.
On this side of artistic suggestion the play’s
best is the splendid illusion of life and action
going on outside the dug-out. Through
Sheriff’s craftsmanship and through the ex-
cellent producing that impression never
wanes. Of the actors, Harvey Adams de-
serves a double issue of S.R.D. for the polish
of his restraint. Reginald Tate, as Stan-
hope, is thorough and alive, and Lewis Shaw,
who led in “Young Woodley,” manages
another choice bit of juvenile acting. The
others, Alan Lawrence, John Fernside, Vin-
cent Lawson, Reginald Dane, Ambrose
Flower, Reginald Wykeham, and an odd
“other rank” or so, all do well.
¥ * *
The Bulletin stepped into a boiled shirt
about an hour after having seen “Journey’s
End” and went along to. inspect,
Moon.” Comparison is odious, ridiculous,
but inevitable. Where the one is drab dug-
out, the other is all color. The best is
unsaid in the one; in the other nothing is
unsaid. The one is humorless; humor is
grand in the other —and the one it’s grand
in is not the comedy but the tragedy ! And
what a place, Her Majesty’s, for testing
the anti-war worth of “Journey’s End!”
Every line, every action of “New Moon” is
dedicated to the glorification of stoush. The
theme refrain runs, “Give me a man who
will fight like 48 tigers,” or words to that
effect. Up, Guards, and at ’em! Onward,
the Light Brigade! And a packed audience
swallowing it, loving it, applauding it, glory-
ing in it! What is Mr. Scullin doing to
permit this? What does the Rev. Mr. Ruth
think about it? Gloriana, thy name may
be Mud for the moment, but there seem to
be an unholy lot of hogs about.
As musicomedy “New Moon” is like
“Vagabond King” and “Show Boat” and
“Desert Song.” It is as strong in body, as
rich in costume, as gay in setting as any
of that trio. Lance Fairfax is here, full as
ever of purpose and pose. Perhaps it is
proximity to an actor, Gaston Mervale, that
leaves him little but a voice. Frederick
Bentley deserves every sympathy. He is a
clever comedian who stoops to . fallabout
only as a last resource. Give him a part
and lie’ll handle it
all right. An over-
sight that there is
no part here for
him. There is one
for Marie Brem-
ner, and she fills
it delightfully. She
sings gaily and
sweetly through
the overlong and
overdull story. And
she acts. An
appreciable success
alt oget h e r, the
Bremner. That can
be said also for
the chorus folk.
They dance and
sing' and decorate
the stage in the
true J.C.W. tradi-
tion. It is a pretty
show for all its
heaviness.
And now here is
Producer Highland,
pushed forward by
the whole brilliant
stageful, acknow-
ledging the plau-
dits. “It is not,”
he says desperately,
“a squawkie.”
Above him, in daily
press announce-
ment, looms
S’George Tallis,
stating that the
Majesty’s is shortly
to be wired for the
talkies. So the cur-
tain falls on a
little musitragedy.
* * *
The second per-
formance of the
Melbourne Sym-
phony Orchestra in the Botanic Gardens
attracted an enormous crowd, grateful to
Sydney Myer for his inspired and philan-
thropic scheme for providing great music
free and under the inspiring influence of
natural scenery. “Natural scenery” is not a
misnomer, because Guilfoyle, the planner
of the Gardens, was a horticultural genius
who manipulated shrubs, trees and lawns
with the facility of a first-class landscape
painter. Two movements from Schubert’s
lovely “Unfinished” symphony were the major
item, but it all depended on your position
on the lawns whether you got the full flavor
of the tenderest passages. A bit of shade
from a convenient tree was also useful in
creating the right mood for absorbing
Franz’s lovely masterpiece. There was not
enough umbrageousness to go round all the
members of the orchestra, and Fritz Hart
conducted with his coat off. An obbligato
was provided by the crickets and the feet of
strollers on the footpaths, but, curiously
enough, it hardly affected the acoustics. Up
to date the al fresco concerts have abund-
antly fulfilled the hopes of the promoters,
* * *
In “Turned Up,” at Melb. Royal, farce
is supplied not in pints but by the hogs-
head. Consequent-
ly, the enterprise
tends to defeat
its own ends and
drag like a camel
ride from Bourke
to Birdsville. Half
the entire cast
seem dedicated to
Slapstick. They
include G u s
Bluett, Mary Law-
son, Leo Franklin,
Edwin Brett,
Bertha Belmore,
June Mills and
Cecil Kellaway.
Even the dainty
little newcomer
from Tasmania,
Molly Fisher, who
i.s supposed to be
the heroine, is in-
fected with the
bacillus fallaboutis.
The plot contains
two bigamists, one
illegal marriage,
one breach-of-pro-
mise case and sun-
dries ; and every-
body is so explo-
sive even about his
darkest secrets that
T h e Bulletin
came away feeling
as if it had spent
the evening in a
foundry. Some
variety is given to
the landscape by
the “Dance of the
Fireflies” and the
extraneous. ditties
of the local Jack
O’Hagan, which
are tuneful but
reminiscent.
ADA REEVE, doing better than ever with Leon Gordon at
Melbourne Comedy.
The Bulletin
might have felt kindlier towards the
“Babes in the Wood” panto, at Melb.
Playhouse if it had not been _ charged
sixpence for a programme which informed
it chiefly that the favorite dish of Lynn St.
Louis is steak and chips, and that the pet
expression of Olive Wallace is “Atta Baby.
Nevertheless, the Joe Brennan enterprise
has an unsophisticated charm, due largely
to its simplicity. Even a careless manage-
ment would scarcely label it a billion-dollar
spectacle. Still, if the wood in which the
Babes are deposited by a mercenary uncle is
a trifle thin, the same cannot be said about
the forest of limbs flourished on every appro-
priate and inappropriate occasion by the
ladies of the ballet. A pretty little item
is furnished by tiny tots who, dressed in long
gowns, relieve the burden of tragedy de-
scending on the twins by dancing round a
maypole. What Robin Hood has to do ,with
the narrative is far from clear, and the mys-
tery is not resolved by anything in the
published story; but as the part is in
the hands of Ida Newton, a principal boy ot
vast experience and pleasing aspect, the
intrusion is fully justified,
* * V
Having been driven by the talkies out
of the Palace, Gregan McMahon has re-
moved his season of intellectual drama
to Melbourne Bijou, which for some con-
siderable time has been without an occupant.
His opening number was “Bird in, Hand,”
previously highly successful at the Palace.
Having broken the ice of middle Bourke-
street with this light item, Mr. McMahon
will proceed to solider nourishment later.
The Palace has a remodelled box-office and
other improvements, and the reception given
to its opening programme should gratify
the Fuller management. “Street-Girl” is
a charmingly romantic trifle, in which Betty
Compson disseminates sex appeal coupled
with a voice that renders down well. Also
on the bill is. “The Doll Shop,” a colored
film on the familiar theme of the dolls that
come to life when the shopman’s back
is turned. It seemed out of focus when
The Bulletin saw it.
¥ * *
The return of George Wallace has re-
stored interest in Melbourne Tivoli, which
is enjoying better patronage than it has had
for at least three years past. George has
the born comedian’s flair for getting on the
right side of an audience without an ex-
cessive expenditure of perspiration, though
nothing he says or does writes itself indel-
ibly on the tablets of memory. Irene Sham-
rock contributes lissomeness and a diminutive
voice to the banquet, and Karyl Norman,
the Creole fashion-plate, is another head-
liner.
V
Ernie Lotinga’s comedy company entered
on its second week at Sydney Fullers with
“The Police Force,” which is as like its
predecessor “Khaki” as any new production
has a right to be. Most of the rather up-
roarious farce revolves round Lotinga him-
self, and that able comedian stands well
up to his job as a member of the Foorce,
and is even to be detected looking for more.
Kathleen Barber, as a lady racehorse owner,
and L. J. Lawrence, as a police sergeant, are
other good things. The programme meticu-
lously sets out the names and addresses
of everyone who has supplied any material
used in the show, from the script to the
socks of the juvenile lead—a London prac-
tice that ought to have died long ago.
* * *
Harold Lloyd in diverting comedy is the
current offering at Sydney State, with
"Frolics of 1930,” a lavish stage attraction.
Other new movie-house bills include “The
Trespasser” at St. James, “Flight”
(Lyceum), “Fast Company” (Empress),
“Married in Hollywood” (Loyal), “On with
the Show” (Capitol), “A Woman of Affairs”
(Regent), “Side Street” (Empire).
Variety items have given up the long
struggle at Adelaide Majestic, and the house
has gone over to the cinema. It started in
very early days as White’s Assembly Room,
then it was Garner’s, then Hudson’s Bijou
for a long and jolly period of black-faced
end-men. As the Tivoli it saw under
Rickards management all the big turns, such
as Ginquevalli, Sandow, Lottie Collins and
Marie Lloyd. Latterly, rebuilt by the Ful-
lers and rechristened the Majestic, it has
fought a plucky but losing battle against
movie appeal.
* * *
The new occupants continue to provide
good fare at Brisbane Royal. “Woman to
Woman,” the current offering, is the piece
in which Lady Forbes Robertson once did
brilliantly. The part is here taken by
Yvonne Banvard, with Frank Leighton
opposite.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: One-time managers
would have laughed at the idea of putting
“legitimate” actors into musical comedy.
Recently mummers like Gaston Mervale,
Greenaway, Reg Hawthorne and others,
starved in their lawful avocations, have been
given a chance, and have proved that, even
in the show that is mostly froth and bubble,
a bit of sound acting is a great strengtliener.
It is merely a reversion to the old order
of things, when actoi's were expected to be
able to play everything from opera bouffe
to panto.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic P.isk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
tbhjhbjhķ
Works and ( Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W.
Foundries 1 Bassendean. Perth, W.A.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
7he Standard oi Quality throughout the Empire ,
Gelignite
Blasting' Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ADFIELDS
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY I LAN TS.
Hadlields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Branch l 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Vie.
Office 1 T. k G. Building, Brisbane, Q
When you come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher’s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike,
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
Bed
and
Breakfast
Tariff
desired
Special tariff or inclusive terms.
1%
HOTEL
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel,” Sydney.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Historicus”: People who acclimatise
plants .and animals in colonies seldom seem
to have anything more definite at the back
Df their minds than a hazy notion that the
place ought to be made more homelike,
There was more than this in the aspirations
UNNECESSARY.
"Did ’ee tell Billy Trevaskis I was a liar?”
"No, William Henry, I didn’—I thought ’e knawed.”
of Thomas H'olt, who in the early ’sixties
made a nice little rabbit warren on his Cook's
River (Sydney) holding, and stocked it with
nice little bunnies. When poachers began
shooting Thomas’s little pets, “on moonlight
nights and early in the mornings” the good
man put his hand in his breeches pocket,
paid for a lengthy advertisement in the
S.M.H., and offered a reward of to for the
conviction of the malefactors. The rabbits,
he explained, “have been imported and taken
care of at great cost, anti if the experiment
of establishing a rabbit warren be not wil-
fully and maliciously ruined m its mtancy
it will prove in a few years a source of great
amusement to many.” I oor lliomas Holt:
How could he tell that the light-hearted
caperings and other winsome tricks ot lus
little pets would in a few years time pro-
duce more curses than chuckles.
* * * *
“Tamornie”: Those sheep of Pigcat s
which crossed running water on their way to
drink had their counterpart m some cattle
on a Centralian station. No ram had fallen
for three vears, and all the stock were
watered at bores on various parts of the run.
One evening a terrific thunderstorm broke,
followed by steady rain. Just at daybrea-s.
one of the blackboys came stamping along
the homestead verandah and woke me.
“Come out and look in the creek, Boss.
Plenty cattle come down.” I jumped out ot
bed and ran to the front of the house. The
creek was running a banker, and amongst
rubbish of all descriptions floated a long,
iron cattle-trough. Swimming alongside it
were about 59 yearlings and two-year-olds,
endeavoring to drink from it. i
* * * *
“Murkah” : The law of gravity is not sus-
pended in the case of small creatures “Ike
Newton” (B. 11/12//29). The ants mice and
cats he quotes displace a considerable volume
of air in comparison with their weight, and
the increased obstruction offered by the
atmosphere retards the rate of fall. Squirrels
fighting in a tree instantly separate if they
tumble, spread their parachutes of tails, and
plane down uninjured. A falling cat erects
its fur with the same object—to grip the
air. Most animals are : expert fullers. In-
stead of stiffening, as the human does, they
loosen and so buffer the shock. Once I
saw a shake slither down a chaff-shoot 20ft.
from the ground. It landed on the tip of its
tail, literally oozed down, and slid oft
unhurt.
sjt :K * *
“Hayband”: Two of us,, swags up, were
tramping—it doesn’t matter where. “You keep
going,” I said.', “I’ll go in here and get a
billyful of water.” As I entered I saw
two horsemen 200 yards away. The house
was at the apex of a V, the ends of which
were at the fence on the road. The sides
of the Y were stoutly fenced with 6ft. net-
ting. A girl answered the door-knock, and
got the water. As I neared the gate one
of the horsemen dashed up, grasped a bar
of iron from a gate-post, raised it over his
head, and waited for me. The other sent
his horse at a fence, and galloped to the
back of the house. I was trapped, and with-
out a chance in a battle. I affected not
to notice the war-like intention. ‘ How tar
is it to the next water?’ I asked, as I
reached the gate. The man with the iron
bar pulled . his horse to the gate-post, re-
placed the bar, backed well away, and
TEMPI'S FUGIT.
THE BRIDER: “Just imagine! It’s twenty-four hours since we were married.”
THE GROOM: “Yes, dear, and it seems only like yesterday!”
quietly informed me that it was four miles
away. “And take plenty with you,” he
added. “It’s a long 20 to the next, and
the weather is a scorcher.” I always leave
well alone and left. There had been no
trouble thereabouts. It happened 20 years
ago, and why all those hostile preparations
were ,nade Uai» s a .
•„ „ . , , , ~
“Dan Bay”: “Cedilla,’ who knocked the
top off a burning stump (B. 18/12/29),
reminds me. A hard-working Swede, who
seldom had time to look up, was telling
timber in W.A. One day he got to work
on a stick 2ft. thick, Charley was feeling
even fitter than always, and chips each the
size of a portable gramophone littered the
surrounding country to an average depth of
3ft. At last down it came—the top -it. hm.
of a stump sft. high. Charley knew two
languages, and strained both.
* * * *
“Sucre” The failure of homing pigeons
to fly from Broken Hill to Sydney (B.
25/12/’29) is easily explained—hawks. At
the Naval Stores, Kangaroo Point, Bris-
bane, many attempts were made to send
messages by pigeon from the fleet exercising
in Moreton Bay. In every case the result
was a failure due to the _ hawks which
patrolled the airway. In this case the air-
line did not exceed 50 miles.
* * * *
“Wingella”: Tell “Feng-Shui” (B.
20/11/’29) that there is a quinine-plant
indigenous to North Australia. In taste
it is identical with the commercial quinine,
and it is used by the bushmen when they
are out of the imported stuff. The plants
are plentiful enough, growing wild all over
the country. Apropos, a chemist in North
Australia used to carve out small cups of
cypress-pine, fill them with water, and allow
it to remain in the cups all night. In the
morning the bitter water was given to fever
patients. The chemist claimed that it was a
splendid febrifuge, even better than quinine,
since it left no after-effects.
* * * *
“R. K. Ick”: Sydney owed some of its
picturesque hotel names of days agone to
Governor Macquarie. In 1818 that poten-
; tate limited the number of inns in the “town
of Sydney” to 50, insisting on “striking titles
and notable signboards.” The licensed vie-
: tuallers did their best. In George-street,
near the present Q. V. Markets building,
was the Dog and Duck. The signboard
depicted a man aiming at a duck, his dog
meanwhile keenly awaiting results. The
Bunch of Grapes, afterwards the Rain-
bow Tavern, stood at the corner of King
and Castlereagh streets, where the Daily
Telegraph building is. Others scattered
about the towu where the Hit or Miss,
Lily of St. Leonards (Rocks area—Lily
was a lubra), Sailor’s Return, Plume of
Feathers, the Corporation (its proprietor,
Lumpy Dean, weighed 2cwt. 3qr. 91b.),
Fortune of War (still extant), Sheer Hulk,
the Whalefisliery and the Black Dog. Most
of the queer hotel names went out with the
windmills.
* * *
“P. Pros” : “Mundowie” is right about the
lack of hatracks out back. Most of the
men I have lived with out here keep their hats
on even when sitting round the tire on a cold
night. Boundary-riders coming back from the
paddocks and wanting a wash before having
a feed usually proceed by tilting the hat
back, bathing the cheeks and forehead, dry-
ing and replacing the hat. On rare ceremonial
occasions, when hats have had to come off, I
have had quite a surprise at the totally
changed appearance of my mates.
* * * *
“Embrey”: There is an extraordinary
drought on in the Collinsville district
(N.Q.). There is ample water' and for miles
the grass is knee-high. Yet there are thou-
sands of dead beasts littered along the roads
and in the creek-beds. The reason is that
the grass is absolutely devoid of nutriment.
Frost and wind parched it. The agony of
a starving beast must be even worse, if that
is possible, when in sight of acres of waving
grass, totally unpalatable, than when perish-
ing of thirst in a locality devoid of feed of
any sort.
* * * *
“Damon”: W.A.’s far-famed red-flowering
gum is often an unruly tree in the garden,
like most other hybrids with no definite
idea of growth. A 200-acre area between
Nornalup and Denmark is renowned more
for the scraggy nature of the trees than for
the color which blazes from them in the
spring. Success in growing this tree comes
from pruning when the flowers are full. Clip
merrily just before the gumnuts form, and
the tree will be saved its greatest strain
and will flourish in an endeavor to do
another year what you would not let it do
the year before —and the treatment then be-
comes automatic.
(Continued on next page.')
BUSH’ MEMORIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The shaded lights are soft and bright above
the twinkling shoes;
The orchestra is droning out the “Gay Ohio
Blues” ;
The cymbals clash and clatter, the cornet
brays and shrills—
But give me back the old nights in the distant
Gippsland hills.
The old nights, the good nights,
The nights of long ago;
The old friends, the good friends,
The best I’ll ever know. .
„ T 1 .i v. i . ~ ... . . ,
When the bracken m the gullies changed from
„ . , slia(iow y S re Y t° black,
With our young hearts filled with laughter
we took the winding track,
Down the ranges where the scent of musk
Ah ' TeL^were liviim then the
Wine of life was there
wine ot me was tnere.
In the little hall that sheltered where the
stately gums march down
To meet their brothers of the plains, far
from the murky town
We danced while faster went the hours, and
fun was clean and free,
Joe’s concertina’s lilting still the sweet old
tunes to me.
rhe racket of the kettledrum is filling all
the room,
The trombone shrieks and syncopates, the
basses moan and boom;
The dancers shuffle feet and hips—but I am
far away
With the friends I knew were true friends
when life was full and gay.
The true friends, the best friends
That I will ever know,
In brave nights, in bright nights,
The nights of long ago.
victoria.
P.T. FINDLAY.


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers'
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
BOLS
Silver -Top
dry GIN
I
SILVER.' CAP
D
352 YEARS’
EXPERIENCE
guarantees
‘lts quality
In the square
gloss bottle with
the Green Label
W. W. GREENER
GUNS
I**
Sk°JSe£il
W. W. GREENER LTD., Birmingham
Wholesale Australian Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.,
405>07 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, C.l.
‘Barangkali”: Every visitor to Batavia
hears some of the legends woven round an
old cannon lying in the grounds of the
museum, the Holy Satama, but few are
aware that the “wife” of this famous master-
piece of ancient artillery lies in the Regency
grounds at Soerakarta. According to Java-
nese mythology the wife, Njai Satomi, is
possessed of a soul and has always been
filled with restless longing to take her place
at the side of her lord and master, from
whom she has been separated. Accordingly,
one night, without the help of man or beast,
Njai Satomi travelled to Batavia. She was
recaptured and brought back to Soerakarta,
but broke loose and returned for a second
time to her husband, where at last her
troubled soul found rest. When attempts
were made to move her she fell on the foot
of one of her persecutors, causing him to
die of elephantiasis, and after that no human
being dared to lay hand on her. In the
THE TEST OF TRUE LOVE.
LILY: “How did you come to fall in love with me, Dave?”
DAVE: “The first time I met yer, Liz, soon as you squz me hand I knoo you wuz a
good milker.”
course of time the unceasing prayers of the
priests exercised a calming influence over her
and she returned as she had left, without
human help, to Soerakarta, where she now
rests covered with red velvet and protected
by glass.
* * * *
“R.W.” : A favorite drink of the old days
in N. Queensland when some
prodigious slice of good luck
had, to be celebrated was a
“bananaman.” You paid- the
publican ss. and then went be-
hind the bar with a long glass,
and poured into it something
out of every bottle that chanced
to catch your eye. Another
potent tipple of the same
period and place was called
a “crusher.” This consisted of
gin„ whisky and rum in equal
quantities, a dash of absinthe
and some cloves. If there was
any room left in the glass it was
filled up with lime-juice, and
a pulped orange added. That
cost os., and those who were
fond of it said that it
was well worth the money. A
couple of crushers provided a fair-sized jag
in themselves, and the stuff was supposed to
be extremely durable in its effects.
# ❖ sj: jjc
“E.S.”: An old lady asked me to get
the hoofs off “poor old Taffy,” who had
died of old age at the bottom of the pad-
dock. He had been her faithful hack for 20
years, and used to come up to the house
every evening for a bit of bread. That was
all lie did for her in his last couple of
years, for she considered he was too old
to ride, and the daily bread was his pen-
sion. Getting the hoofs off the old moke
was a beastly job, for they had to be well
ripened for the operation".' She scrubbed
and cleaned and polished them, decorated
the tops with some red material, and stood
them in a row on the mantelpiece. There
they remained until she died. When her
will was read a female relation who had
been expecting something substantial from
the old lady’s hoard found she had been
left the keepsakes as a special mark of
favor. That was the end of Taffy’s hoofs.
* * *
“Yarri”: Along where the Kyogle
(N.S.W.) railway is being built are places
called Fawcett’s Creek, Fawcett’s Bridge,
Fawcett’s Plain and Fawcett’s Ridge, be-
sides locations identified by the inhabitants
as “where Fawcett’s hut used to be” and
“what used to be Fawcett’s track.” The names
commemorate a pushful squatter wbo signed
himself Charles Hugh Fawcett, but was
generally known as “Daddy.” He is more
respectfully remembered as “the Father of the
Richmond,” for Daddy was doctor, chemist,
magistrate, general adviser, president of
HE DIDN’T LOOK A MOUSER.
MOTORIST: “I’ve just had an accident and
run over your cat, Madam, so I’ve
come to offer to replace it.”
DEAR OLD SOUL: “Oh, it’s very kind of you, hut I’m afraid you won’t do.”
district clubs and associations, a whole
progress committee in himself, and the first
member of Parliament for that part of the
State —and that will be half a century ago
next year.
-I' * * *
“Mulgo”: The Sydney boy lets nothing go
past him that can be turned into money.
The go-cart, besides picking up empty bottles
and bits of coal, earns many a sixpence
gathering manure and sand from the gutters
for suburban gardens, and waste wood and
shavings wherever houses are built or reno-
vated. Gumtips are worth money, and so
are mushrooms. Two 12-year-old nippers at
Fairfield cleared over £9 each in one week
selling mushrooms to motorists. On Christ-
mas Eve an urchin who seemed to be sur-
rounded with squeaking cicadas accosted
me. “Want to buy a locust, Mister? Penny
each for singers.” The luckiest boy was one
who caught a stray hen in a busy street.
He sold it to a woman for three shillings,
and it wasn’t till she took it to the back
of the premises that she discovered it was
her own, which had got out.
* * *
_ “Booraby” : The two new hands who were
ringbarking on Blade’s selection reported
gleefully that they had found a bees’ nest
near the boundary fence. They had heard
a lot about “sugarbags,” and had been wast-
ing much of their boss’s time looking up
trees. The nest was in a big dead iron-
bark tree, such as only a very enthusiastic
axeman would tackle when he was hunger-
ing for honey and had nothing else to do.
The new hands went out on Sunday morning
with buckets and axes, and set to work.
They slogged hard for half a day, broke
two axes, and spilt pints of sweat. When
the tree fell it crashed on the fence, wreck-
ing several panels. The much-sought-after
nest was occupied by wasps.
•5* *l* *!* »l»
“Lien”: The last of shearing-shed “hang-
men” has passed. His final stand was on a
Speck station. The “hangman” was armed
with a short piece of rope, and as the sheep
are shorn he passed the rope round each
sheep’s neck and drew it out for tallying.
In earlier times he drew the sheep up to the
boss of the board. Those were the days,
too, when the board boss used to throw a
handful of sand into each fleece to improve
its weight, and when to shear more than 100
woollies a day was to invite the sack.
* * * *
“Gregor”: One of the greatest engineer-
ing schemes propounded in Australia
was for the creation of a huge inland
sea by cutting a channel from Port
Augusta, at the head of Spencer’s Gulf, to
Lake Torrens, and letting the ocean flow
into the country below sea-level. It was
considered that the presence there of a large
body of water would materially increase the
rainfall and convert the surrounding areas
into verdant and smiling pastures. Much
oratory was expended 60 years ago in
describing the cities and towns which
would spring up there almost overnight.
The scheme won some approval in S.A.,
-where a promotion syndicate was formed,
and a preliminary survey was begun near
Port Augusta. By decrees the depressing
conviction was rammed home that the
ingress of sea water would never be suffi-
cient to off-set solar evaporation, and so a
grand bubble burst.
* * * *
“Da Mtwadl”: A sight the white man’s
eyes are very seldom allowed to gaze upon
is the preparation by the ku-ku witch-doc-
tors of the island of Bahme of their famous
chu-chu charms. First, small balls of red
clay are fashioned, and into these are stuck
the feathers of the tum-tum bird, yellow,
hlack and green. Small pebbles of hard, whim
rock are punctuated amongst the clay and
the feathers, and brass tacks are added to
taste. The charms are then left to dry
on a flat stone until they are the consistency
of luke-warm lava, after which peas, car-
away-seeds and cloves are added to the
design, which begins to assume its tradi-
tional outlines, resembling a conic section.
At this stage burnt sugar is added, after
which the chief ku-ku puts the lot carefully
in the dustbin and goes home to his tea.
■\i ❖ ❖ #
“Wingella”: It happened when I first
settled in the North. I was alone in the
house, with the nearest neighbor some miles
distant, when two stark-naked blackfellows
walked into the place. “You give-it tucker !”
said one, shortly. “You cut wood, first time,”
I retorted, being willing to give food only
in return for work done. “No more cut
wood,” snapped the biggest black; “my come
take-um tucker!” He strode over to the
flour-box, and I retreated timidly toward
the bedroom. He just had his hand on the
lid, when I snatched up the double-barrelled
gun from beside the bed, and levelled it at
the two niggers. “You bunga!” I yelled
(which, being interpreted, means “Run like
H —!”). They looked up—and I think they
are going still. That was the one and only
time in more than 20 years that any blacks
tried to bounce me into supplying them with
food without either paying or working for
it.
* :j: s}c %
“Hayband”: A, Hoxton Park (N.S.W.)
16-year-old girl recently coped splendidly
with a desperate situation. Her brother was
falling a sapling, when the axe slipped and
completely severed the bone below the
knee. Using her dress his sister swiftly
made and applied a ligature, somehow got
him on to a horse (he weighs list.), and
double-banking to hold him on, she took him
to Dr. Pirie’s surgery at Liverpool. The local
ambulance then rushed him to St. Joseph’s
Hospital, Auburn. Thanks to his sister’s
resource and speedy action, it is considered
likely that the almost-severed leg will be
saved.
THE SHADOWS.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Outside, the horses were stamping
In the old brushwood stable ;
Inside, the candle was burning
On the bare deal table.
The clock ticked, and ticked, and ticked;
And mother darned a sock;
And I lay in bed watching
The shadow behind the clock.
I was always fond of shadows—
The blue shade of a tree,
The green shadows of thunder-clouds
Driving over the sea;
The soft browns in the creek-bottom
When the June sun is low ;
And the pink streaks that cross the sky
From the last even-glow.
But all the best shadows I knew
Would never come in the day;
Even if I were asleep then
They’d be millions of miles away.
They always waited for bed-time,
And the horses in the stable,
And the weights sliding slowly down,
And the candle on the table.
And then the most beautiful dream of all
Would turn the key in the lock,
And come wistfully stealing out
From the shadow behind the clock!
S.A.
CHARLES HENRY SOUTER.


■
m
§f
m
ft
i
i
% ;
n
■
H
!
m
P
H
: .r ■
IK
m
_____
■■■ r - : - '®a:
Not how much—
but how much satisfaction
—that is the basis of
OLDSMOBILE success
m
f
THE high regard Oldsmobile
owners have for their cars —the
measure of satisfaction they enjoy
is the best indication of Oldsmobile
value.
Read what enthusiastic owners
say of their Oldsmobiles —“The
Oldsmobile stands alone for
comfort, speed, acceleration, and
economy,” writes one satisfied
owner. Another —“We are all
proud to say ‘ours is an Olds.’ ”
Another proud owner writes of
his first view—“l was at once
impressed with its sturdy but
smart appearance .... I can’t
praise it enough.”
To talk with owners is to realise
that an Oldsmobile owner is a
satisfied owner. And
after you have listened
you will want to get to
know the Olds yourself —to handle
it, to experience its speed, power,
hill-climbing, roadability, smooth-
ness —its smartness and style.
To do this, all you need is to
arrange with your nearest dealer
for a trial drive. He will tell you
of the General Motors Warranty,
of the wonderful service facilities
Oldsmobile owners enjoy. If neces-
sary, he will arrange convenient
payments under the G.M.A.C.
Terms Plan.
Prices from £330.
Subject to change without notice.
GENERAL MOTORS (Australia)
Pty. Ltd.
Brisbane. Sydney. Melbourne. Adelaide. Perth.
OLDSMOBILE
Serving Thousands of Satisfied Owners
it’s a General Motors car


PRIZES FOR FARMERS.
The Prizes (£25, £lO and £5) for the past half-year’s contributions
that have been judged most helpful to the man on the land will be
announced on January 29.
At the same time arrangements with regard to future prizes will be
published.
t w - -J
has
The
Rabbit
may have good cause for
dejection owing to the
label he sees. But the
Skin
Owner
3 different viewpoint. He wants top values for his
consignments. He knows that the use of a Winch-
combe Carson label results in the realisation of that
objective. For highest market prices
CONSIGN RABBIT, FOX AND OTHER SKINS TO
WINGHCOMBE,CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Winchcombe House, or 99-101 Eairle St.,
Bridge St., Sydney, Brisbane.
Good Quality Wools
are Firm
Faulty Sorts Decline
EVERY Wool Sale bears this out. It is an undoubted fact
that it is most difficult to keep wool in an attractive
condition even under the best pastoral conditions.
VITA-LICK under all pastoral conditions helps to grow more
wool and make it more attractive.
USE VITA-LICK CONSTANTLY
VITA-LICK LIMITED
Stock Lick Specialists
107 KENT STREET, SYDNEY
Kerv|;Ratjoix
fh e
Dog food
Supreme
tbhjhbjhķ
A perfectly balanced meat ration;
keeps dogs of all kinds in
the pink of condition.
In Tins. READY TO SERVE.
A Perfectly-balanced Ration.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB
P. O. Box 1821, Melbourne
Ken-T tßation
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CR PARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
A QUEENSLAND SHEEPMAN’S
BUDGET.
“Ooline” : A statement of returns and ex-
penditure on a leasehold sheep property in
Queensland should be interesting at this
juncture. The place is in a district 360
miles west from Brisbane by rail, and 60
miles from the railway. The area is 20,000
acres, and it carries 5000 sheep.
Wool at 81b. per sheep, the present aver-
age price being 12d. per lb., may be reckoned
at £2OOO. Sheep sold off shears (problema-
tical owing to drought conditions and wool
prices, but, say, 1600 at 12s. 6d. per head)
account for another £lOOO. That makes
£3OOO.
Now for expenses :
Rent (lid. p.a. p.a.) .. .. .. £125 0 1
Rates . . . . . . . . .. 30 0 0
Interest on improvements . . . . 346 8 0
Interest on sheep . . . . . . 500 0 0
Shearing and marketing wool . . 591 0 0
Station hands . . . . . . .. , 334 0 0
Petrol and upkeep of plant .. . . 100 0 0
Dipping and drenching . . . . 20 16 8
Licks . . . . . . . . . . 30 0 0
A total of £2077 4 9
Leaving a problematical £922 15s. 3d. for
owner’s income (and two income-taxes) pur-
chase of rams, parcel rates by coach, pay-
ment of a governess or a tutor (or cost of
sending children to a school) and upkeep of
a car.
The price paid for sheep is set down at
255. per head; a sheep may be estimated at
that value during last year if carried on the
selection. And £6250 at 8 p.c. is £5OO.
Improvements are thus summarised: —
Boundary: 24 miles rabbit- and dog-
proof, at £l2O p.m., half-share . . £1440 0 0
Four paddocks, 12 miles, 6-wire, at
£4O p.m 480 0 0
Two paddocks, 4 miles, 6-wire, £4O
p.m. . . . . . . . . . . 160 0 0
Yards and woolshed, 4-stand equipment 700 0 0
Dwelling with huts, outbuildings,
garden, etc. .. . . . . . . 800 0 0
Earth tank of 7000 c. yards, and two
of 3000 c. yards, each, Is. per yard,
with £lOO for extras .. .. 750 0 0
A total of £4330 0 0
This at 8 p.c. per annum equals £346 Bs.
p.a.
Labor employed throughout the year is
made up of a man at £4 10s. p.w. and a boy
at £2 p.w., or £334 p.a.
As for shearing, woolpressing, etc.: —
5000 sheep at Is. .. .. .. £250 0 0
Road carriage, £4 10s. per ton
(approx. 18 tons) . . . . .. 81 0 0
Railway freight, £7 19s. per ton .. 143 2 0
Cartage from Roma to Bulimba, 2s. Bd.
per ton .. . . . . . . 2 8 0
AVoolpacks and ties at 6s. 6d. per
pack (133 packs) .. .. .. 43 4 6
Fire insurance at Is. 6d. p.c. . . . . 1 10 0
Insurance from sheep’s back to store—
4s. 6d. p.c. less 10 p.c. discount and
plus 4d. p.c. stamp duty . . . . 3 17 S
Receiving, warehousing, repacking
sample bales, advertising and ex-
penses of sale, Jd. per lb. . . . . 41 13 9
Commission at 11 p.c. . . . . .. 25 0 0
Total £591 15 11
Noav for the plant:—
Utility truck .. .. .. ~ £lBO 0 0
Dray and harness for two horses . . 35 0 0
Small earth scoop and plough . . .. 20 0 0
Tlwee riding saddles . . . . .. 30 0 0
Eight horses at £5 per head .. .. 40 0 0
Fencing tools, etc. .. .. .. 25 0 0
Total £330 0 0
The estimate of plant and improvements,
£4660, is equal to 4s. Sd. per acre on 20,000
acres. At the end of five years the pro-
perty without stock may be worth Bs. per
acre walk-in-walk-out. In effect, £3330 repre-
sents the value of the lease above the value
of improvements. Supposing the property
had been bought at Bs. per acre, or £BOOO,
the interest at 8 p.c. would be £640 instead
of the £346 allowed for. It is doubtful
if leasehold country carrying one sheep to
four acres can be got for less than 10s.
per acre.
Costs on freehold country can be worked
out on a similar basis, with taxes in place
of rent. If Queensland sheepmen studied
actual costs, instead of putting the whole
blame on the rent question, a more satis-
factory view of the situation would be
obtained.
THIS TREE-KILLING MANIA.
“Larrapinta”: From the front of the tent
in which I’m writing I can see a great
sweep of hillside country dotted with gaunt
skeletons of ring-barked gums and seamed
with ugly ravines. I can remember when
those gums were alive, and when the creeks
were shallow, tree-lined affairs with perma-
nent pools. Down on the flat, moreover,
there were two big spring-fed dams, which,
held plenty of water in the driest summers.
Now the creeks are dry except for a few
hours after a rain, when they are muddy
torrents, and the dams have been dry for
years. The owner gets an indifferent water
supply from wells. And yet that property
carries no more sheep than it did when the
scattered timber was alive —'and that was
before the days of clover and top-dressing,
too.
The owner saw his folly two years ago.
Ho has planted the creeks with willow slips,
and is going to plant clumps and belts of
sugar-gums when South Aus. gets its normal
rainfall again. The trouble is that neither he
nor I may live to see the mischief undone.
Of course, we must get the best possible
return from our land, and to do this we have
to clear it and establish pasture or grow
crops in place of scrub. But it certainly
doesn’t pay to take every tree, especially on
high ground. The man guilty of this folly
not only fails to reap any benefit himself,
but earns the well-merited curses of land-
owners lower down, who see a formerly
permanent stream through their property
turned into a dry bed down which soil-
eroding floods rush at intervals, with the
attendant annoyances of broken fences,
straying stock and lack of water in dry
years.
A GOOD WORD FOR RYE.
“Curlew”: “Glenfield” (B. 27/11/’29)
urges the sowing of oats to replace that spare
stack and to have another paddock for graz-
ing. Let me recommend rye. It will stand
more rough usage, it produces more abun-
dantly, and it will come time and again.
Loft to mature it is a fine choker of weeds.
This season in north-east Vic. I fed off
rye with lambs and ewes till the middle of
August. Early in December I cut hay up
to 6ft. high off it; tbe best would go over
two tons per acre. On September 14, I
sowed a little left in the drill from the
autumn. By the middle of December this
was about feet high, had stooled enor-
mously and had abundance of leaf. A man
with a good paddock of rye to turn his
shorn sheep into would soon have prime fats.
GETTING OUT OF THE RUT.
“Bushman”: Too many farmers stick on
the holding year in and year out. They
grow stale. It’s a poor place that won’t
allow a man a break at least once in a
couple of years, even if only for a week.
Don’t run away with the idea that you can’t
be spared. A change sends you back to the
selection with more energy to tackle its
problems. When you’re away keep your eye
skinned for anything that will be of benefit
to you. If you are near any Government
farm or experimental station, visit it. If
in town, look up the machinery firms. There
may be some gadget or idea that you’ll fit
in when you get back.
I have a neighbor who was making a
poor fist of his job on the farm. He went
away as steward on a boat calling at North
Queensland ports. He studied the methods
of cultivation he saw up there. Got all the
time off he could and observed everything.
Fodder storage interested him immensely.
He returned in due season with some helpful
cash, and, by adopting the methods he took
stock of, he has turned a second-rate farm
into the show place of the district. He has
more feed stored in stack and silo than any-
one else. When a dry spell comes he makes
money.
Land gets sick and tired, and so does the
man who tills it. A spell, observation and
comparison may do wonders for the jaded
farmer.
N.S.W. WHEAT SILOS.
“C.C.” : It is hard to understand why some
N.S.W. wheat-farmers are still shy of the
country silos. Personally, I regard them as
a boon. For a small handling fee —less than
is charged for the same service in the
U.S.A. —I store my wheat in the bins, am
given a negotiable wheat warrant which
guarantees me delivery of the same quantity
of f.a.q. wheat, and am relieved of all re-
sponsibility until I am ready to sell to a
mill or ship away. Mice, weather and leak-
age in transit now hold no terrors. The
Government office will even sell the grain
for me if I wish.
All the same, I look forward to the time
when the Government will see its way to
introduce the grading of wheat. The present
f.a.q. system is not at all satisfactory to the
“clean” farmer. He gets no more than the
“dirty” farmer, and there is therefore no
incentive for a man to improve the quality
of his wheat. This is a bad policy in a
country like Australia.
LIME ON NEW WESTRALIAN LAND.
“Pid” : A city man bought a property in
my Westralian district, and, all enthusiasm,
sowed lime wholesale. He said it must do
a power of good and couldn’t do any soil
any harm. I argued the point over a 100-
acre patch of new sandplain, but the city
man didn’t believe me until he’d finished
wondering why he didn’t get a record crop
of wheat off that area.
The noint is that lime is useless unless the
land contains humus, and new land has tq
be very good to be well stocked with that.
Lime frees the salts in humus by fermen-
tation, and if the soil is weak in organic
content the lime will simply burn up all
there is. Constant regard for this is the
secret of British and Continental farmers’
success with lime. Laird that has been
farmed for centuries is rich in humus, and
the more that land is limed the better it will
yield.
The best treatment for new poor land is
to fallow and let the sun and air sweeten
it through a summer. Meanwhile the vege-
table matter buried in the ploughing breaks
up and becomes good stuff for the lime to
act upon during the following winter—for
lime must have moisture to enable it to
work.
Sour soils are a different proposition;
they become sour through an over-abundance
of acids thrown off by humus decaying under
conditions of bad drainage and bad aeration.
Lime in this class of land neutralises those
acids, putting them out of harm’s way, and
leaving the soil so that all it needs is a look
at the sun and a breath of fresh air to give
it new life.
BASIC PHOSPHATE.
“S. Quire”: The basic phosphate marketed
in Australia to-day is not the basic phos-
phate of pre-war days. The heavy, dark
grey or black powder retailed prior to 1914
under various names (basic phosphate, Star
phosphate, Thomas’s phosphate and basic
slag), and still largely used in other parts
of the world, is a by-product obtained in
the process of eliminating phosphorus in
steel manufacture.
The furnaces containing the molten metal
are lined with the mineral dolomite (double
carbonate of lime and magnesia), and as
the phosphorus is oxidised (by blowing air
through the molten metal) it rises as a scum
to the surface, where it meets the mineral
lining and is converted into phosphates. The
furnace is cooled down, the phosphate crust
(basic slag) is chipped off, and after being
finely ground is sold as an artificial fertiliser.
The basic phosphate, on the Australian
market is simply a mixture containing 85
per cent, of super., with 15 per cent, of “fat”
lime, and is totally dissimilar in appear-
ance to basic slag, being a white powder
not nearly so dense (heavy) as the basic
phosphate obtained as a by-product. The
content of phosphoric acid in both fertilisers
is practically the same, but the chemical
composition in other respects is different.
On numerous occasions recently Vic. farm-
ers working certain soil types have mentioned
to me that they cannot get the return
from present-day basic phosphate that they
obtained from the basic phosphate of pre-
war days. I believe that certain types of
soil which are not responding to super,
or basic phosphate top-dressing would give
a result from the additional mineral con-
tent of true basic slag.
What is wrong with our iron and steel
industry giving basic slag a “fly”?
STUBBLE STRAW AGAIN.
“F.S.A.” : The N.S.W.. Department of Agri-
culture gives the following chemical analysis
of straw: Protein, 4 p.c.; carbohydrates, 49
p.c.; fat, 0.9 p.c. The digestible portion of
the nutrients disclosed, based on Wulff’s co-
efficients of digestibility is : Protein, 1.04 p.c.;
carbohydrates, 19.61 p.c.; fat, 0.5 p.c.;
nutritive ratio, 1 to 20. Figures published
by Prof. Paterson of the Perth Uni., repre-
senting an average of the analyses of about
30 different samples of Australian straw,
approximate closely to the N.S.W. figures.
“Noah Fraid” (B. 18/12/’29) asks me if I
know the nutritive ratio of molasses. Molasses
contain 60 p.c. carbohydrate but no protein.
Therefore, the stuff has no protein ratio,
but that does not lower its value as a feed-
stuff for adding to rations; and it is rich
in certain important minerals.
MILK-FEVER.
“Melbin”: If the Sjollema treatment of
milk-fever (injection of solution of chloride
of lime and glucose) mentioned by “Curlew”
(B. 25/9/’29) is satisfactory, it confirms an
opinion expressed by an Australian medico,
C. E. Corlette, a couple of years ago. This
fertile theorist argued that the heavy milk
flow denuded the system of available lime
and caused the breakdown known as milk-
fever. It is known that when air is
pumped into the udder the distention stops
the milk flow. This, he suggested, checks
the drainage of lime from the system and
allows the animal to recover, and that, a
solution of chloride of lime injected into the
bloodstream would also give relief. It is a
pity that he has apparently not had an
opportunity to test his ideas.
No farmer in his senses, however, would
want to replace an air-pump with a hypo-
dermic syringe. The pump is too simple and
effective for that. If sterilised bone meal
(which, of course, contains lime) is used a
a preventive, it should be available to the
animals always, and not just before and
after calving. It is worth noting that Eng-
lish salt-licks contain more bone meal and
less common salt than is recommended by
Australian authorities.
THE POTATO MOTH.
“Red Poll”: In the Koo-wee-rup Swamp
(Vic.) we found that dry weather after
Christmas seemed to favor the potato moth;
In bad seasons the beast kept us awake of
nights thinking up counters. Briefly these
are: Hill high; dig early; cover bags as
dug with spare bags; sew up bags the same
day; stack topside down in a depression
in the loose ground, which should be banked
up round the bottom; use new bags of tight
weave. And, if necessary to store, stack
every bag vertically with the mouth down
and as far from the potato fields as possible.
Experience taught us that the grub always
worked down, hence the reversed bags. The
hardest part was to get the diggers to turn
every spud over when picking up. No subse-
quent precautions availed if the sample was
not clean to begin with, owing to the grubs’
habit of boring into one spud after another.
DRYING APRICOTS WHOLE.
“Orchardist”: Only the best specimens
should be selected. Immerse the fruit in a
boiling solution of lib. caustic soda to every
30 gallons of water for about two seconds.
Atter draining it should be given a cold bath
to remove any excess caustic soda and
reduce the amount of sulphur absorbed.
Spread on drying trays, with each fruit on
its side.
When the trays are full, place in the
fumigator to be sulphur-fumed for 8 or 10
hours. After that place in the sun to dry,
and the process can be completed in the
shade. The fruit should be ready to be
taken off the trays in 8 to 12 days.
THE EGG INDUSTRY.
“Yeoman”: A recent Adelaide produce-
market report reads: “Hen eggs: ordinary,
6f d. per doz.; Red Comb, infertile, Is. sd.
per doz.” This wide disparity bears eloquent
testimony to the difference in marketing
methods. “Red Comb” is the brand of an
association of intelligent poultry-farmers,
who market only guaranteed fresh-laid' and
infertile eggs. Eggs from the average farm
further afield, described as “ordinary,” are
fertile, and are gathered casually and gen-
erally marketed when anything from a week
to a month, old. As the quality is so uncer-
tain they are not worth more at this time
of year than half the price paid for a brand
that is guaranteed fresh and infertile.
The remedy is obvious. All male birds
must be segregated except in a special pen
for breeding purposes. The eggs must be
infertile, collected daily and marketed at
least twice a week. Farmers in a district
could co-operate, providing a central depot
to which eggs could be delivered for testing,
grading, branding and marketing. Selling
eggs at 6fd. a doz. involves a tremendous
waste. The farm egg should realise the same
price as the others. The quality is identical
[Continued on page 25.)


%
V
mf
r
A
41
/i.
, '
S'- ,*&• -**®W
i*_ _
"v,
T»
X\X
3S
**r
as
V/y'^ m \A
4*
w?
&
50**
'* s 2T%. ‘
■f/lts
,v/>
" /
T
ft#*
, //"
rjr-
&
m*
.4% A
Ki\
*a
W
r-.M
I
ft
<*<#
WA ?
J*#*>
,/JL
■/d%' \
'4
v *
i
r* /
M A
I
\ \
nilunmiiTTTiTTTn
****••,
4fe*
3jK
as?
44
V*
Sfc?
*WE2
1 .
'^"•'-v-'n
T'
-r
V
t:
o 1 /
\k
V|
\ !
V. .
'S"-*
"«U
« ~- • H*
Vi
WOOL!
The lower realisation for wool makes it essential that sheepbreeders spare no effort to
increase the average yield per fleece. The growth of wool can definitely be stimulated.
Principal factors are: —
(a) Correct breeding practice, meaning selection, culling, and' the use of high wool-
yielding sires.
(b) The use of foodstuffs which provide the nutrients needed in forming wool-fibre.
The first factor—breeding—has increased the average wool yield in Australia by 51b.
per fleece since the early eighties. The second factor has been practically neglected.
Make use of proper foodstuffs and wool production will increase.
MEGGITT’S UNSEED SHEEP NUTS
have a greater influence on wool-growth and the condition of the fleece than any other individual
food.
Analysis shows that wool-fibre consists of pure 'protein. It is only the protein of a food which can
grow wool. Meggitt’s Nuts contain three times more digestible protein than maize, or any grain.
The cost of a unit of wool-growing material protein in Meggitt s Nuts is less than half that
of a unit of protein in any of the grains at normal prices. Further, the valuable oil content of this
food puts the right amount of condition into a fleece, and so improves its spinning value and
price.
Commonwealth Distribution:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Meggitt,
Limited, Asbestos House,
comer York and Barrack
Streets, Sydney, and all
Pastoral Houses, or Agents.
VICTORIA: New Zealand Loan
and Mercantile Agency Co.,
Ltd., Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Branches.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder,
Smith and Co., Ltd., Currie
Street, Adelaide, and Branches.
TASMANIA: F. W T . Heritage and
Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart and
Launceston.
Let Meggitt’s Linseed Sheep Nuts help you
in bringing up your average yield per fleece.
cMjzg&ltt JZimitecL
HEAD OFFICE ASBESTOS HOUSE.YORK? BARRACK S' 6
SYDNEY * BOX 1555. E G.P.Q
Works-. Parramotra.NSW MelbournaVic Port Adelaide. S.A
Commonwealth Distribution:
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder,
Smith and Co., Ltd., St.
George’s Terrace, Perth, and
Branches. Sub-distributors:
Win. Adams and Co., Ltd.,
Perth.
QUEENSLAND: All Pastoral
Houses and Agents; also Den-
hams, Ltd., Brisbane; Denham
Bros., Ltd., Rockhampton;
Cummins and Campbell, Ltd.,
Townsville and Cairns;
Corser and Co., Maryborough.
.1
9
ft
h
\ /, r A'-w.
H H
m
m.
M H
• Nfi
I
'tv.
s* a
■
VI
■
■
US
4
■
;.:■
//
I
f l:
m
im
i
ji
i
»
M
i i '
*3
H
v
■
>4h^
t-
I I
-O'
SZS-I
1
9
Mu.
i§
«
u% *\ // MJ//Oyv
/UyvS i,, A
Ji *
H
tKj, "? , r (
"* v**<£xk
/ T.tf. K '


mH
*****
I
0
4Kt
«
i
A
m
0
m
0
M
♦
0
4
f.
\
4
\ /
5
M
\
\
*
\
1
*
\
\ \
\
/
\
>
\
$
\
) w
X
SVK\
1l
yA
ii
it'
' ■
*
'v
\>
\
\
\
»
\
\
\
)
\
\
V
\
v
A
S
Two
Reasons
And One
Proof
tbhjhbjhķ
PALM TEST
shows why Goodyear has
the best non-skid tread
1
rN
i >
W
yr
Feel the grip
of the deep -
cut, sharp-
edged blocks ,
placed in the
centre of the
tread.
%
CORD TEST
shows you why a Good*
year Supertwist Cord
carcass has great en«
durance
tbhjhbjhķ
There is great•
er stretch —up
to 60 per cent.
in Super-
twist Cord
over ordinary
cord.
The PROOF of these advantages is: More People
Ride On Goodyear Tyres Than On Any Other Make,
coo
EAR
30—4 D


The smartest in black
shoe
Perfectly close-fitting at ankle, this
Abbey Shoe combines pliancy with
the utmost durability. It is soled
with the toughest leather available.
The upper doesn’t strain tightly over
the instep when laced—it is curved
to fit the natural arch of the foot.
ORDER BY POST.
There are full and half sizes, each
in three fittings, narrow, medium
and wide. Specify width when
ordering, and ask, also, for the
correct Abbey Polish (6d. per tin),
or one of the handy, new cleaning
outfits (2/6 complete).
Black Velour Calf, 42/-
New summer sporting catalogue post free
on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street, and 224 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,’’ SYDNEY.
FPL 158
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
Tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of Various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
r uit in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins .. . 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/- each
ROST FREE Oi V FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins . . 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
X
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Educational.
THE PATRIOT
DIRECT MEDIUM Tg WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. lIINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
MISSING BENEFICIARY.
n EORGE MACKIE, son of Robert
• Mackie, deceased, and formerly of
Auckland, New Zealand, or any person
knowing the present whereabouts of the said
George Mackie, is requested to communicate
with the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
at Hawera, New Zealand.
SCOTCH COLLEGE,
TORRENS PARK, MITCHAM, S.A.
A BOARDING and DAY SCHOOL for
Boys. Headmaster, N. M. G. Gratton,
8.A., Dip. Ed. (Melbourne). Professional,
Commercial and Agricultural Courses.
Prospectus and further particulars may be
obtained from the Headmaster or the Sec-
retary, W. D. C. Paton, P.C.A. (Aust.),
A.M.P. Chambers, Adelaide.
w
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
rx
M
fin® .
AUTO TENTS
Made in our own factory so that all work is guaranteed. Suitable for
camping out in conjunction with a motor-car. Fitted with wall between
tent and car. Can be rolled into small space. Bft. x Bft. x 3ft. back
wall, “A”—Special heavy calico, 67/6; “B”—Calico front and sides,
with English duck roof, 85/-; “C”—Duck sides and front, with heavy
duck roof, 102/6. All supplied complete with necessary poles and ropes.
SPECIAL AUTO TENT “D”—Same material as our “C” tent, excepting
has extended front and back, which covers car completely in, £6/17/6.
All complete with fittings.
"Goods Delivered Free on Rails or Boat, Melbourne.
HANDLER
Ofo BIGGEST HARDWARE HOUSE, IM VICTORIA
(D. & W. CHANDLER, LTD.),
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, Victoria.
when first laid. It is only a matter of
organisation and system to prevent deteriora-
tion.
It is admitted that only fresh-laid eggs
are fit for consumption at the breakfast-
table. Then why should eggs not fit for the
table be allowed to go into consumption in-
directly? Legislative action has provided for
the sale of only fresh, graded eggs in Canada-,
as a result of which consumption increased
enormously. ~ If the Australian consumer had a
similar assurance as to quality, the quantity
of eggs consumed might soon be trebled, and
the resultant higher prices would assure a
profitable return to all keepers of poultry. At
present, the high prices go to those intelli-
gent few who are voluntarily doing what
every egg-producer should be compelled to
do not only in his own interests but also
in the interests of consumers.
SISAL HEMP.
“Rag” : “Tangaloli” is right (B. 30/10/’29)
and “W.P.D.” wrong about sisal hemp.
Papua tried growing it on a big scale at
six different parts of the Territory, spend-
ing £150,000 on the business before decid-
ing that it was a waste of money. If any-
one would like to try his luck with the
vegetable he can have several thousand
acres of sisal plantations within a 30-mile
radius of Port Moresby (Papua), simply by
filling in application-forms for the land. It
takes three years after planting the suckers
for the leaves to get to the cutting stage, and
30 tons of leaves go to a ton of fibre, and
in Papua, no matter how hard you try to
work your native labor, you can’t make
it pay. A sisal plantation is only fit to
banish bad step-mothers to.
BONE-CHEWING.
“Wrasli” : In some districts the habit of
bone-chewing causes much trouble amongst
cattle. Large bones often get fast in a
beast’s throat, and, with the animal mad-
dened by discomfort, are difficult to remove.
At times, too, they cause death by choking.
Want of salt is not, as is commonly sup-
posed, the cause of the habit. In coastal
districts, where a sufficiency of salt is pro-
vided by saline plants and seaweed and the
cattle decline rock salt, bone-chewing is
prevalent in some dairy herds. The trouble is
induced by lack of lime and phosphorus in
the pastures.
The use of a lick largely composed of
sterilised bone meal, which supplies phos-
phate of lime, gives beneficial results, and
on some farms has completely eradicated
bone-chewing. An alternate preventive is
top-dressing the meadows with super. This
not only lessens the trouble, but in addition
gives an impetus to pasture.
MUD BATHS FOR PIGS.
“Borer”: Don’t mind your pigs going in
for mud-bathing. It mightn’t make ’em look
pretty, but it does ’em all the good in the
world. But don’t let them wallow in the
filth which drains from yard or sty. Provide
them with a shallow pool which can be filled
and cleaned out periodically. The pigs will
make their own mud if the ground is suit-
able ; if not it should be made for them.
When one pool becomes too foul another
should be ready, and the first can be cleaned
out and allowed to sweeten up -while the
second is in use.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) It is always matter for argument
whether it is more payable to cart wheat
straight from the harvester or let it stand
' in the paddock before sewing, and so get
more in the bags. Can you throw any light
on the problem? (2) What weight per bag
is lost by wheat standing in the paddock
under ordinary weather conditions? (3)
How long can a bag of wheat stand in the
paddock under ordinary weather conditions
before losing any appreciable weight? (4)
Some of my ewes have died suddenly. The
illness began with slight frothing at the
mouth; then there was great pain, loss of
use of the legs, and death in about three
hours. Sheep are on good green feed and
in good condition, and no trace of poisonous
weed can be found? —3608.
(1) There is this basic fact: grain har-
vested when ripe and in warm weather
will lose practically no weight. The maxi-
mum weight can be placed in the bags by
exposing them to the air some time before
filling. (2) Moisture content of Australian
wheat varies considerably, but probably 10
p.c. is a fair average. Grain not quite hard
at harvesting time, but not dangerous to bag,
may contain 13 to 14 p.c. moisture, resulting
in a loss of 3 to 4 p.c. by weight on. drying.
On the other hand, ripe grain reaped in hot
weather loses practically no weight. (3)
Impossible to say. Probably immature grain
with ordinary harvest weather would be
reduced to average moisture content in from
one to two weeks. (4) Without more de-
tails it is impossible to express a worth-while
opinion as to the cause of death. Get in touch
with the Chief Inspector of Stock, Adelaide.
To lohat depth have the roots of wheat
been known to penetrate?!—39ss.
A maximum depth of 7.3 feet is quoted by
Weaver in “Root Development of Field
Crops.”
Could potatoes be grown profitably on
good light soil west of Goondiwindi (Q.)
(1) irrigated with bore water; (2) irri-
gated with dam water? (3) Average yield
for Queensland? —3912.
(1) and (2) It is questionable; the district
mentioned is well outside of the recognised
potato-growing area. If you care to risk it,
trials should be conducted in a small way.
Water from various bores differs very
greatly, so it would be as well to have a
sample forwarded to the Agricultural
Chemist, Department of Agriculture, Bris-
bane, for analysis; fee 10s. 6d. The dam
water, if from a natural catchment area and
not overflow from the bore, should be quite
suitable for irrigation. (3) Slightly under
2 tons per acre for the whole of the State:
in the main potato-growing districts it is
higher.
Two brothers have a notion of going in
for poultry-farming in N. S. Wales. Is the
industry overcrowdedf What amount of
capital icould he required? What is the
most suitable district, and is it best to farm
for eggs or for marketing the poultry, or
both? —3942.
The industry is not overcrowded. An
amount of £6OO would be necessary for
buildings and plant, and at least five acres
of land. Suitable land can be found in
almost any district close to a railway within
50 miles of Sydney. A commercial farm
should aim at producing both eggs and table
poultry, paying special attention to egg-pro-
duction, which can be made more remunera-
tive. Advice can be obtained from the Poul-
try Expert, Department of Agriculture,
Sydney.
I have a common rough-skin lemon-tree
just hearing its first crop. I wish to graft
or bud a good Lisbon lemon on it. Is graft-
ting or budding the better? Correct time
of year to carry out the operation? —3994.
If the common rough lemon is growing
in a situation where heavy frosts are not
experienced grafting immediately is recom-
mended. Should the grafts fail, young
growths will develop quickly, which may be
budded about the end of March. It is
a pity the operation was not performed a
few weeks ago, but if frosts are light and
are not received early in the winter, success
should be attained. Saw off the main limbs
squarely at a height of about 24in. to 30in.
from the ground. Make longitudinal cuts
ljin. long through the bark at the point
of sawing off. Slightly lift the bark to
enable pieces of Lisbon lemon wood (scions)
to be inserted, and make sufficient cuts for
several scions, which must be obtained from
a good bearing tree. In their preparation
round wood about 3-16 in. thick is satisfac-
tory. After l’emoving leaves cut into short
lengths about Sin. long. On one side of
the lower end pare with a keen knife until
a very tapered cut ljin. to lfin. long is
made. This scion is then ready for put-
ting beneath the bark previously raised
slightly; the scion with side pared is placed
on the wood of the stock. When 2 or 3
scions are placed around the sawn-off stub
tightly bind with strong raffia, tape or simi-
lar material, cut off the scion after leaving
two buds standing clear. All cut surfaces
of scion and stock should then be covered
with warm grafting wax \4 parts resin, 1
part beeswax and 1 part tallow melted
together). A few weeks later many shoots
will arise on the stump. Most of the grafts
inserted should indicate that they are ready
to grow, the rough lemon shoots should then
be kept repressed. If grafts' fail —become dry
in appearance l —allow a limited number of
shoots to develop on the rough-lemon stock,
and bud these when as thick as a lead-pen-
cil. After grafts have been growing for
about 10 weeks run knife across binding
tape, but leave in position; and tie growths
to stakes driven in suitable positions to pre-
vent wind breaking off.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Kappa”: Formalin solution will exter-
minate blowflies more rapidly than any other
chemical agency, but it should first be mixed
with fairly thick syrup made by dissolving
ordinary sugar in water —two parts of syrup
to one of formalin. Half-fill jamtins with
the mixture, stand each tin in a shallow
dish containing water, and place a few yards
away from a dead sheep. Care must be
taken that stock do not get at the stuff.
“Tumbc Munda” : If you are troubled with
Scotch thistle, dock, wild mustard or wild
turnip, and haven’t time to grub, get out
your spraying machine and spray from a
cart with a solution of sulphate of iron. In
a few hours the weeds will shrivel up, and
eventually they will disappear without harm-
ing good grasses, except, of course, clovers.
And a solution of sulphate of iron, together
with a very small quantity of sulphuric acid,
swabbed on to the buds of grape vines just
before they burst will prevent black spot.
“C.H.P.”: An injury to the hock joint
calls for immediate attention, otherwise it
is almost certain to result in permanent
lameness to the horse, A good hoof ointment
is composed of Jib. raw linseed oil, Jib.
crude petroleum, Jib. neatsfoot oil, Jib.
Stockholm tar. Clean the hoof well and
apply the ointment every night.
“Coringa”: If a cow develops warts on
teats and udder, try raw potato juice. A
cut potato can be rubbed on the parts, or,
if the trouble is extensive, pound up enough
potatoes to get a quantity of juice and paint
it on with a brush.
“Hatter”: Weigh your chicks to see if
they are making normal growth. Leghorns
should weigh one pound between six and
seven weeks, ljlb. at nine weeks and at 12
weeks about lflb. Pullets should average
21b. at 15 weeks and 3Jlb. at 24 weeks.
Heavy breeds weigh the same up to nine
weeks, but take the lead from that time;
they should scale 21b. at 12 weeks, 2Jlb. at
15 weeks and 41b. at 23 weeks. This applies
only to pullets and not to birds on a fatten-
ing ration.
“Bufforp” : If you want to top off those
cockerels, pen them up in a small, dry house
with a little run. Feed them on mash made
into a gruel, and don’t let them have water.
Mix the feed with milk, or buttermilk if
you can, and give them a plentiful supply
three times a day. Ten days of such treat-
ment will make more condition than three
times as long on free range, or the ordinary
mash and grain ration. Keep the feed
clean; never give it to them sour.
“Jack Point”: Eggs should be gathered
several times a day during the hot season and
stored in a cool room. Male birds should be
kept out of the pens. Fertile eggs will not
keep any length of time in warm weather,
and it is the same with dirty eggs. Dirty
eggs should be immediately washed and
dried.
“Gardener”: Cauliflowers are a crop that
you want to have coming on all the time, for
they don’t hold long when mature. Have your
land as rich and loose as you can make it
and feed them for all they are worth. The
secret of success is never to let them stop
growing. Keep them well apart for the first
sowings.
“H'ortus” : To prevent a crop of potatoes
being ruined by rain coming when it isn’t
wanted, drain the paddocks, and drain them
solidly. Make a deeper furrow at fixed inter-
vals, and leave it as an open drain ; in this
way the surplus water will be carried off.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Experienced country journalist, N.S.AV., seeks
change; several years managing editor and editor.
Country work preferred.—4oB7,
Nurse, A.T.N.A., going to England, would give
services in return for passage. Take charge of baby
or act as companion to elderly 1ady.—4133. '
Electrician, Sydney, seeks job maintenance, care-
taker or position of trust. —4105.
Dressmaker, visiting N.S.AV. country districts, seeks
appointments. All kinds of sewing.—4040.
Young man (20) wants chance of getting experi-
ence on station, Q. or northern N.5.AV.—4046.
Journalist, N.S.W., seeks opening town or country ;
share basis preferred ; cash bond if wanted. —4047."
1914 volunteer, exp. traveller, six years’ sheep
and cattle stations, abstainer, physically fit, seeks
position Islands, can pay fare. —4035.
Englishwoman (35), refined, trained as nurse,
typist, can drive car, w'ould give services in return
for passage to England; thoroughly acquainted with
English beauty spots.—4oo2.
Married man (N.S.AV.), 7 years’ experience dairy-
farming-. wants management small dairy farm. Wages
or share. —4116.
A ictorian (36), single, ex-Digger, long exp. sheep-
and mixed-farming, bookkeeper, wants job. Could
take full charge.—4lls.
Bush worker (Q.), can milk, ride, help kill, look
after horses, handy with tools, gardening experience,
wants work on station. —4117.
Man (N.S.AV.) wants job on sheep station; experi-
enced in making sheep medicines.—4llB.
Widower desires to hear from prospective second-
class passenger, Sydney to s.s. Ulimaroa,
Jan. 31, willing look after two young children on
voyage.—4o4B. .
Tasmanian (19) wants position boundary riding
or job on sheep station, N.S.W. or Queensland ; first-
class horseman.—4o73.
Young lady sailing England early this year will
give services as companion or children’s nurse, in
return for fare. Good sailor.—-4068.
To get in touch with breeder of Alsatian dogs,
preferably one near N.S.W. Murrumbidgee Irrigation
area.—4o79.
To buy Ilalliday’s “Digest of Examination Ques-
tions and Answers.” —4065.
To buy registered trade-mark suitable for veterinary
embrocation and 'liniment.—4osB.
To buy geological report on Herberton and
Palmer goldfields, by Rev. Tenison Woods; also
Jack’s report on Herberton (1883). —4101.
To buy vocal scores (English and German words)
of Wagner’s “Meistersinger” and “Valkyrie,” in good
condition.—4os3.
AVill exchange “Australasian Turf Registers,” 24
vols., various dates from 1874, for “Australian Stud
Books,” Vols. I, 11, 111, X, XII and XV. —4052.
To hear from persons who have constructed wind-
mills and can supply specifications and working
details.—-3852.
To correspond with readers versed in Pitman’s
shorthand so as to gain experience.—4049.
Words of “A Bushman’s Farewell to Q.” —4038.
Information Sought.
A simple method of distinguishing gold
from iron pyrites? —3946.
Iron and copper pyrites are brittle
minerals. Gold flattens under a hammer.
And while gold may be cut in slices iron
pyrites. (pyrite) is too hard to yield at all
to a knife, and copper pyrites (clialcopyrite)
affords a dull, greenish powder. Moreover,
pyrite gives off sulphur when strongly
heated ; gold melts without odor.
A simple test by which a real diamond
may be distinguished from a false one?-
4095.
Immerse the stoue in a glass of water. If
it is a diamond, its facets all show clearly ;
if it is. something else, the facets will lie
almost indistinguishable. The glass-scratch-,
ing test is useless; the diamond is by
no means the only stone that will scratch
glass.
llow long does it take to complete the
course in medicine at Sydney Uni., and what
are the total fees? —4075.
From March in the first year till June
or thereabouts in the sixth year, the greater
part of the third, fourth, fifth and sixth
years being occupied with hospital instruc-
tion. First year fees, £37 10s.; second year,
£42; third, £42; fourth, £37 10s.; fifth,
£37 TOs.; sixth, £l2 10s. There are also
minor incidental charges.
I am a South African farming in N.S.W.
Two young brothers wish to join me. (1)
Ca.i they be brought here under any of the
assisted immigration schemes? (2) If so,
where do I apply for information?— 4oBl.
(1) Yes, subject to the nominator being
able to satisfy the Migration Department
with regard to the provision that will be
made for them.on arrival. (2) Migration
Dept., Sydney.
A Queensland farmer destroyed a trespass-
ing bull, leaving the animal where lie shot
it without informing the owner. Is he liable
to a prosecution similar to that for cattle-
stealing, or docs it rest with the owner to
sue him for damages? —4o36.
There is no analogy between the shooting
and cattle-stealing; the principles are quite
different. If the bull was not a present
danger the farmer should have impounded
it. not shot it,, and it rests with the owner to
take action for the loss he consequently suf-
fered.
A bowler lets a ball he -is delivering slip
out of his hand, and it falls in the middle
of the pitch. The batsman goes out to
hit it, but is anticipated by a■ fieldsman, and
a sharp return results to the wicket-keeper
removing the bails before the batsman can
get back. What about it? —4111.
The batsman vvas not out. He had a
right to have a hit at the ball before the
fieldsman interfered. If be had had a smack
and missed and the fieldsman had then got to
work he would have been out.
Qualifications for entry to the British
Diplomatic Service? —4050.
Candidates are required to have attended
a British University, to have passed a most
exacting examination and to have private
means. Appointments are made by the Secre-
tary of State for Foreign Affairs after
nomination. There are Australians serving
in the Diplomatic Corps, but they were
admitted in London. It is practically im-
possible to secure an appointment at : this end.
A neighbor's plum-tree overhangs my pro-
perty, and litter accumulates on my lawn.
Am I entitled to cut down the projecting
branches, and-to retain any fruit that falls
on my ground? —4o9B.
The proper procedure would be to send
a note asking him to cut off so much of
the branches as project ..over your land; if
he then fails to remove them, you may cut
them off yourself. It is a trespass. The
risk of taking the fruit on the trespassing
branches would be .negligible.
(1) A Brisbane youth, aged 17, wants to
become a veterinary surgeon: Where would
he have to pursue his studies? (2) Length
and cost? (3) Prospects for a fully-qualified
man? —3978.
(1) There are no. local facilities. The
nearest are at the veterinary school attached
to the Sydney Uni. (2) Four years; com-
municate with the Registrar, Sydney. Uni., as
to fees, etc. (3) It depends largely upon
the. man himself. If he is capable and "the
opportunity arises, prospects are good.
Is there a Government department in
Vic. where the will of a person still living
can be deposited? —4o94.
Yes; the Registrar-General’s, Queen-
street, Melbourne. All particulars may be
obtained from that office.
How to convert cowhide into white hide? —
3657.
Soak the hide in cold water for two or
three days, and make up a liming bath of 2oz.
lime to each gallon water. Soak the hide
in for about two days, until the hair starts
to pull out easily; the hair and flesh can
then be scraped off. White hide is made with
strong alum liquors in the proportion of
6oz. alum to each gallon water, taking about
four or five days. At the end of the fourth
day make a slit in the hide ; if it is a greyish
color right through it will be ready, but
if a streak still remains leave in liquor
until it disappears. Wash a couple of times
in cold water and hang to dry in the shade.
When hide is almost dry, work as much
grease and oil into both sides as it will
absorb.
(1) What percentage of men who joined
the A.I F. from August 4, 1914, until Decem-
ber 31, 1914, were native-born Australians,
and what percentage were born in the U.K.?
(2) What percentage of A.I.F. men who
gained distinctions were born in the U.K.?
—3762.
(1) No separate statistics as to places of
birth covering the period referred to have
been prepared. The following figures show,
however, the numbers of members of the
A.I.F. who embarked, according to place of.
birth : Australia, 257,963; United Kingdom,
64,221; New Zealand, 4214; other British
countries, 2246; foreign countries, 3137;
total 331,781. (2) No official information
has been prepared.
Is it possible for a layman to take a short
course in tropical medicine at the Towns-
ville Institute? —4051.
Not at Townsville, though attempts hai’e
been made from time to time to secure a suf-
ficient number of laymen to justify a short
course in tropical medicine and hygiene.
With the opening in 1930 of the School of
Public Health and Tropical Medicine at
Sydney it is hoped to have short courses of
this kind. Provision for such has been in-
cluded in the tentative programme.
/ recently bought un all-electric receiver
which I want to use in conjunction with my
gramophone. (1.) Approximate cost of con-
verting receiver and gramophone for this pur-
pose? (2) Alterations necessAry? —4l26.
(1) Gramophone pick-ups range from
about £2 12s. 6d. to £6 10s., no other appa-
ratus being necessary. Purchase of one of
the better-class instruments recommended.
(2) The pick-up is screwed to the table of
the gramophone, as per instructions inclosed,
which should be carefully followed. When
room permits, a position should be chosen
which will not interfere with the sweep of
the gramophone tone-arm, so that either
gramophone or pick-up may be used at will.
No alterations are made to the receiver, as
the extremity of the pick-up cord is fitted
with a plug, which is inserted into the
detector valve socket of the receiver.
(1) llow to go about getting an appoint-
ment as a cricket? umpire in Sydney? (2)
Pay ? —4061.
Make written application to H. Arm-
strong, sec. Umpires’ Assoc., N.S.W.C.A.,
254 a George-street, Sydney. You will
be notified as to the date on which
examination will be held. The examination
is based on the M.C.O. Laws of Cricket
and Interpretations, together with general
appearance and intelligence: the standard is
very high. (2) 10s. per afternoon or £1 for
a full day. Rates are the same fy "first,
second and third grades.
Method of germinating wattle-seeds? When
should they be planted in a Sydney seaside
district? Method of planting, and any help-
ful hints? —4o99.
Seeds should be placed in an ordinary
drinking cup or enamel mug, and then have
boiling water poured over them until the ves-
sel is full. Leave in water for four hours;
then pour the water off and sow in a pot,
pan or wooden box, and keep the soil damp.
When the third leaf has developed, trans-
fer the seedlings singly into three-inch pots.
Seeds are best planted ip the spring or
autumn, but can be planted at the present
time.
(1) Where can a young worn,an secure
kindergarten training in Sydney with a view
to becoming a teacher? (2) Length of
course, and nature of entrance exam.? , (3).
Are positions usually available after com-
pletion of. studies? (4) Commencing salary?
—tuS4. .'
(1) At the Kindergarten Training Col-
lege, Henrietta-street, Waverley. (2) Two
to three years ; two years if the student has
passed the Leaving Certificate exam. The'-
entrance exam, is of a standard similar to the
Intermediate; subjects, history, geography,
arithmetic and English. (3) The college
reports: “Our usual experience is that there
is a far greater demand for our students
than we can supply. The positions offering
are for the most part in private schools and
Free Kindergartens.” (4) The salaries
obtained by graduates in the first year range
from £l2O to £l6O p.a.
(1) Titles of a few reliable textbooks on
library icork? (2) Any N.S.W. educational
courses in library work which a School op
Arts librarian might attend? —4oB3.
(1) Arnett’s “Elements of Library
Methods,” Bishop’s “Practical Handbook of,
Modern Library Cataloguing,” Bostwick’s
“American Public Library,” Dana’s “A
Library Primer” and T. Hitchler’s “Cata-'
loguing for Small Libraries.” (2) Not as
far as we know. The Public Library lias
a system of library training and library
examinations, but only for its*own staff.
(1) Qualifications required of candidates
for position of Vic? (nietropolitan) fireman?
(2) Any vacancies at . present f—-4082.
Age, 21. to 28 years; minimum height,
sft. 7in.; normal chest measurement, 37in.;
medical fitness must be' certified to by
brigade doctor. (2) No.
(1) What preparation is used to inocu-
late children against whooping cough? (2)
Has it proved effective? (3) Where can
children be inoculated in Sydney, and what
is the cost? —4103.
(1) Pertussis vaccine, (2) Very, and is
used extensively in the Children’s Hospital,
Sydney. (3) Any doctor can do it. Cost
depends on where it is done, and by whom ;
in suburban practice it would be about two
or three guineas a course of injections.
What opportunities exist for securing com-
missions in the new Militia Forces? —4093.
There are vacancies for officers in many
units. Section 11a of the Defence Act pro-
vides that all promotions to the rank of
officer and non-com. shall be from those who
have served in the ranks and that appoint-
ments and promotions shall be allotted to
those in the next lower grade who are most
successful in competitive examinations.
(1) Names of publications dealing with
the process of manufacturing iodine for com-
mercial use'i (2) Would sufficient kelp be
found on the N.S.W. coast to keep a small
plant going?.- —-3793.
(1) “Mineral Industry of the British
Empire and Foreign Countrieslodine”
(Imperial Institute), and “Marine Products
of Commerce,” by Tressler (Chemical Cata-
logue Co.). (2) Yes.
In Tasmania there is a bird known as
Whistling Dick. What family does he
belong to, and what are his habits? —4091.
He is a perching bird belonging to the
Collurcincla. Some call him a shrike and
others a thickhead. A grey or brown fel-
low, with sometimes buff or rufous color
on the underparts, he frequents forest or
scrub country, and feeds on insects. The
birds are pleasing songsters, uttering rich,
loud, clear notes; their nests are cup-shaped,
and built of strips of bark, lined with roots
and grasses. They lay three or four eggs,
white, with spots of bluish-grey and blotches
of chestnut brown.
I have had a room papered. The joints,
instead of drying out in a day or so, are
just as if they were not dry. The paste
was bought and the paperer was a profes-
sional hanger. What am I to do? —4013.
Probably the paste has dried, but at the
edges where it is joined it presents the ap-
pearance of still being wet. That could be
accounted for by part of the selvage having
been left on. This selvage is generally a
little darker and looks different from the
body-of the paper. On some of the modern
papers the selvage needs trimming off very
wide. If it has been left on it would make
a dark mark down the wall at every joint.
This, of course, cannot be altered, but can
be covered up by using a narrow border at
every joint.
(1) I intend returning to England. Would
it be possible under the passport regulations
to break my journey in Canada for the
duration of the .harvest? (2) Best month to
travel to be in time to secure work? (3)
Third-class fare to Canada? —4oos.
(1) Yes, if you obtain a British passport
for travel within the Empire. Communicate
with the Collector of Customs, Sydney. (2)
July. (3) £3l 10s.
(1) How much oil and white-lead and
turps, are required to mix 10 gallons of paint?
(2) What other materials are needed to
make a chocolate color, and how to mix?
(3) What surface would 10 gallons cover?
—3964.
(1) To give a good full-bodied white
paint, weighing approximately 221 b. to- the
gallon: 1 jewt. of white-lead in -oil, 64 gal-
lons of raw linseed oil, ,4 gallon of" pure
spirits of turpentine; }. gallon of terqhine
driers. (2) In the manufacture of a choco-
late-color paint white-lead is not used; it
is impossible to , stain a white to a chocolate
color. For the preparation -of a chocolate-
color paint the following stainers in oil
would be required: Burnt sienna, burnt
umber, black and a little yellow chrome,
together with the necessary oil, driers, etc.
As you have evidently no experience, you
w’ouid be well advised to buy a reputable
brand of ready-mixed paint. (3) In mixed
white-lead paint the covering capacity of a
gallon is approximately 700 square feet.
With a good-quality machine-mixed paint
the covering capacity is increased consider-
ably, and 10 gallons may be expected ro
cover 8500 square feet or more, according
to the nature of the surface to be painted.
How to make a cement for joining rubber
and iron? —4119.
Melt together , equal parts of gutta-percha
and asphalt; use hot. Or melt together
20oz. each of gutta-percha and shellac, and
stir in 90 grains sulphur and 60 grains red-
lead. Use hot.
I have a six-valve wireless receiver which
gave excellent results until about three weeks
ago, when the signals commenced to get
weaker. A new “B” battery improved
matters somewhat, but the signal strength is
still not 'un to standard. What is the trouble?
—4127.
Assuming that your filament accumulator
is not discharged and that the bias battery
is reading the correct voltage for the type
of valve employed, probably valves have lost
their emission. When a valve has been in
constant use for periods exceeding 12 months
it should be tested for plate emission.
Dealers, as a rule., will test valves for cus-
tomers whenever the apparatus is available.
Brief Answers.
E.G.M.: Not as an investment, and would
rather gamble in others... .M.W.1.: They should
have a future.; but a div. this year (1930) is
doultful... .A.8.E.: Mosher’s Auto Radiator Co., 56
Nicholson-street, Woolloomooloo. .. .T.J.D.: The only
distinction is that while a mile square is a square
with sides a mile long, containing 640 acres, a
sqjiare mile may be a plot of land of any
shape ‘cofitaining 640 acres. .. .A.D.: From Wilson
and Mackinnon, 365 Elizabetli-street, Melbourne....
F.E;F.: The stamp duty is paid by the lessee
W.: Treatment of sciatica by electricity is not by
any means' a proven success. Know of no books
on the subject valuable to a non-medical person.. ..
R.S.:,Each case is.dealt with on its merits; cannot
answer in absence of particulars. Write Govt.
Savings ’Bank of 'N.S.W., Martin-place, Sydney
W.M.D.: Write Registrar-General, Queen-street, Mel-
bourne. . ,'.C;S.You will have to apply direct to
the Board of Admiralty and the War Office, White-
hall, London, S.W.I A.M.R.: The average pupil
takes from six to eight weeks to gain his “A”
license; cost, including entrance fee, £6O to £65.
... .A.M.L;: See Willard’s “History of the White
Australia Policy” and Young’s “A White Australia.”
. . f .IbQ.: Write to the Mayor of Noumea for birth
certificate and information as to its cost, giving
names of parents and date of birth. . . . Y.A.S. : You
lose; Judith Anderson opened in “Cobra” at the
Criterion Theatre, Sydney, on Jan. 8, 1927....
L. ; His address is 20 Forest-road, Bexley,
Sydney... .W.L.: Without the name of the co. and
full particulars it is impossible to express an opinion.
N.A.P.: Write Trade and Information Office,
East African Dependencies, Royal Mail Building,
Coclcspur-street, London, S.W.I. .. .K.D.: We don’t
know of anyone breeding Shetland ponies in N.S.W.
Mrs. A. D. D. Maclean, of Fenwick Stud Farm, Yan
Yean, Victoria, is a successful exhibitor and prize
winner at Melbourne Royal Show. . . .E. 0.: Impos-
sible to give a medical opinion without knowing
exactly what is wrong with your eye. See the super-
intendent of one, of the big public hospitals if Repat.
refuses to bear the cost . ... J.E.H.: The simplest and
most direct course would be to have the money trans-
ferred by draft, but consult the Commonwealth Bank
as to Whether the matter could be adjusted so as to
save exchange. Such adjustments are common....
W.L.M.: See page 483, “Whitaker’s Peerage, 1929.”
It should be available at Brisbane Public Library.
. ...0.5.: (1) For the year to June 30, 1928,
9747 cwt. copper sulphate, valued at £13,416, was
imported into Australia. (3) Not recorded. (2),
(4), (5), (6) Write Leggo and Co., 222 Queen-street,
Melbourne. . . .C.T.J.: Santa Claus is another name
for St. Nicholas, bishop of Myra, Asia Minor, in the
fourth century'—the patron saint of children....
V. 8.: A signed copy of Lionel Lindsay’s “Twenty-
one Woodcuts (1924)” is catalogued at £lO 10s,
“Phil May' in Australia” (de luxe edition, 1904) is
selling at £2 2s. ; you might get more A.M.G.:
South Aus. was the first to grant women the fran-
chise, which was exercised for the first time at
the Leg. Assembly election, April 25, 1896. .. .E.G.:
Write see. National Rifle Association, Macquarie-
place, Sydney D.8.C.: It is slightly iron-stained
claystone (silicate of alumina). The material may
be suitable for the manufacture of certain classes
of pottery and paint, but- clays utilised for such
purposes are usually of low value, rarely exceeding
£2 per ton on rail. . . .P.M.H.: Plenty of labor
available locally. It would be, foolish to proceed
there without getting a job beforehand K.P.: A
patents attorney would supply details regarding cost
and procedure. Invention seems to have merit....
M. ; Subject too technical. There is no such
thing as a world patent; application must be made
in each individual country where protection is sought.
Better consult a patents attorney V.A.8.: “Cusec”
is used by civil engineers as an abbreviation of
“cubic feet per second” L.D.: (1) A copy of the
reprints of the investigators has just been pub-
lished ; you could also see three numbers of the
“Journal of the Cancer Research Committee” of
Sydney Uni. (2) Sufferers from malignant disease
are examined, advised and treated at the Radium
Clinic, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, and at the
Cancer Clinic, St. Vincent’s F.W.; W. Paterson,
Record Chambers, 77a Castlereagh-street, Sydney,
would advise. .. .W.L.: No. .. .W.E.S.; Yes; 225.
6d. a roll, 300 ft. x 3ft., from McEwan and Co., 119
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne W.R. J.S.; The tartan
of the Macdonalds of Clanranald is light green with
broad, dark-green crossing and fine red lines. See
Grant’s “Tartans of the Clans of Scotland”
Ranji: Impossible to ascertain. No record extant.
S.M.: Question very vague. Payment of com-
mission to collectors of life-assurance premiums
varies according to office, class of policy, age of
proponent, and collector’s record... .R.J.C.: Believe
they are now out of business.... N.P.: AY rite l&
Soldiers’ Settlement Branch, Agricultural Bank, Hay-
street-, Perth, for particulars and application forms.
llia: 1 '.(1) You should marry in your real name
arid use. it, thereafter. (2) To enter into contracts
in other than your real name might lead to trouble.
(3) Notify the registrar o f' the district within which
the . lady resides and arrange for the attend-
ance of two witnesses at the time fixed. .. .R.E.AA-.:
Flowers of sulphur should keep mice out of hay-
stacks' The practice is to sprinkle each second
row of sheaves when the hay is being stacked
A.G.: “The Complete Oarsman,” by Lehmann; “A
Textbook of Oarsmanship,” by Bourne; “Rowing,”
by McLean and Grenfell P.T.: A way of making
flypaper: Take 4 fluid oz. castor oil and 9|oz.
crushed resin; heat the oil, then stir in resin ; paint
the mixture on the paper G.T.A.: Hugo’s “French
Simplified,” Dvmocks, Sydney K.D.: Gaby Desl.vs
died Feb., 1920, aged 36.... (Many others mailed.)


Chevrolet is changing car buyers’ ideas
of what a low-priced car can provide
- #
t\
V
w
V* VI
r f
r
mill
©
IN the progress of motor car manufacture
public opinion plays a very definite part.
And the great general motoring public,
knowing what it wants, has a habit of getting
what it wants.
Not so long ago the mere fact of trans-
portation was sufficient for the car buyer.
Nowadays he is more sophisticated. He
knows the advantages of six-cylinder con-
struction. He appreciates the value of ap-
pearance, and is a critical judge of perform-
ance qualities. More and more he is coming
to understand that • economical trans-
portation does not depend on the
number of cylinders, but that the weight
carried, the rate of speed, the type of
yCHEVROLETi
territory, and the skill of the driver have far
more effect on this vital factor of economy.
That is why the popularity of the Chevrolet
Six has broken all records. That is why it
can be said that Chevrolet is changing car
buyers’ ideas of what a low-priced car can
provide. For Chevrolet is a fine car in every-
thing but cost.
And even its low price can be spread over
a convenient period on the G.M.A.C. plan.
Your Chevrolet dealer can explain this to
you—-and will tell you about the Gen-
eral Motors Warranty and the
Commonwealth-wide service facilities
which Chevrolet owners enjoy.
Prices from £225
(Subjtd to change without notice)
GENERAL MOTORS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
BRISBANE, SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
METROPOLITAN DISTRIBUTORS:
BRISBANE:
Metropolitan Motors, Ltd.,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
John McGrath, Ltd.,
155 Elizabeth Street.
MELBOURNE:
Stokoe Motors Pty., Ltd.,
559 Elizabeth Street.
ADELAIDE:
City Motors, Ltd.,
95 Waymouth Street.
PERTH:
Skipper Bailey Motor Co.,
900 Hay Street.
CHEVROLET
FOIL EVERYBODY EVE R.YW H EKE
-Its a CjeneraLcMotors Car
—I o ole in side and note the 'difference!


The cen/ne of Queens /an c/s
v--' Wl^" drsLngu/sLed Soc/o/ Li/e.
emovfo
13ofr!
BRISBANE
Magnificent Bal i-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, wit!?
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon's, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
raps*
ii
m
Saving
Time
in Sydney
tbhjhbjhķ
SO many interesting things to do and
see in Sydney that every minute
must be considered precious—essential
that your hotel be absolutely central —
in a word, that it should be “The
Australia,” which is socially and geo-
graphically the centre of Sydney.
THE AUSTRALIA
Capital Paid Up, £422,100.
THE HOTEL OF THE
COMMONWEALTH, SYDNEY
tbhjhbjhķ
Telegraphic
Address:
“Austraotel,
Sydney”
Illustrated
Folder sent
on request
ROOM 300
PLEASE'
D-JM
OS
The comfort and success of your
visit to Adelaide, whether for a
week or a year, is assured when
you stay here. Yale locks on all
doors, fireproof, hot and cold
water in every room. Bed and
Breakfast, from 6/6.
"GROSVENOR
c Adelaides Fines-t Unlicensed ZHntel
Opp. Railway Sin. North Terrace. ADELAIDE
SMOKE-OH!
These are days when thousands compete
for the thirst prize.
* ¥
There’s always the devil to pay when a
creditor arrives at the door with a judgment
summons.
# *
Prime Minister Scullin started his career
as a grocer, and he still has to weigh out
the sugar very carefully.
* *
Mary wrote a little book.
She gathered her material -
From naughty men who’d sown wild oats,
And sold it as a cereal.
H- H-
£5000!
Five thousand pounds! Lovingly he
repeated the phrase. Five thousand pounds!
The dreams of a lifetime could be realised.
He took up a pencil and methodically
began his calculations.
A small amount would have to be set
aside for his less fortunate relatives. And
he needed a new car. With what was over
HE’D OVERLOOKED THE RETURN TRIP.
PROUD AVIATOR: “Well, here I am, safe and sound and all intact.”
ST. PETER: “Ah, but I notice you have forgotten your parachute.
You’ll be needing it.”
he would take his wife on the trip thev
had always longed for. They would reach
Cairo by Colombo, Bombay, Aden and Suez.
Then on to Jerusalem, and, as the spring
approached, they would make for Paris and
London. A tour of the English countryside,
and so home.
With an air of determination he put his
calculations aside and, with a flourish,
appended his name to an application for a
Golden Casket ticket!
G. B.
* *
“The man who attended to our table must have
weighed 20 stone.” —S. M. Herald.
One of the heavy-waiter division.
¥ *
“Prosecutor said he was prepared to reduce the
claim for rent, and not chargd at all for the electric
current.”
Defendant probably felt he had been let
off light.
“Sydney’s Cab Horses Go.” — Guardian.
Most of the ones we see look more like
falling down.
RIVEN.
Theirs was a friendship as steadfast as
the Rock of Ages. Against the buffetings
of time, the vagaries of life, it stood deep-
rooted, immovable, absolute! But now when
friends mention Jones’s name in the presence
of Blinker the latter becomes a human vol-
cano vomiting fanatical hatred. And when the
two pass in the street, their backs stiffen,
their jaws come together with a click, their
eyes grow tigerish. Why ? Jones knocked
Blinker’s carnations endways at the Slugur-
bia flower show last week.
¥ *
LANDLADY’S LICENSE.
There is not room to swing a cat
In any of her rooms, and yet
’Tis where all room is scarcest that
She hangs her sign out —-“Room to Let.”
* *
GETTING HIS OWN BACK.
Scene: Dr. Blank’s Surgery. Enter Mr.
Spanner, whose garage does the doctor s
repair work.
Dr. B. (genially) : “Hurt your arm, eh?
We’ll fix that up in no time. - Step in here-
to my ‘repair shop,’ as we call it. Ha.
Ha!” , , _ ,
Mr S. • “It won’t cost much, I hope,
Doc.?”
Dr. B.: “Practically nothing. No more
than a bent mudguard. Ha! Ha ! (After
the examination.) As I said, the arm
trouble is hardly worth talking about.
However, we’ll have to keep you here for a
few days. As you probably know, you
have a touch of pleurodynia, which should
be treated without delay, and I don’t like
the look of that swelling on your side. It
suggests a tumor —possibly malignant.”
Me. S. ( after the operation ) : “Am I all
right now, Doc?”
Doctor B. ( gravely ) : “Far from it, I
grieve to say. Your internal mechanism,
if I may use the term, is completely out of
order. I now find that you have _ appendi-
citis, which will
necessitate an
operation, and also,
probably, a duode-
nal ulcer, the treat-
ment of which will
be a lengthy busi-
ness.”
Mr. S. (affright-
edly) : “What’s it
all going to cost?”
Dr. B.: “A baga-
telle. A few hun-
dred guineas at the
outside. You must
put yourself en-
tirely in my hands,
realising that our
one aim is to turn
out a really honest,
satisfactory jo b.
While building you
up for the next
operation, we’ll
have your teeth
out; they’re respon-
sible for a lot of
the trouble. Spares
-—I mean a new
set —can be got
very reasonably. I
have also diag-
nosed necrosis of
the right thigh,
which I rather
think will necessi-
tate the removal of
the leg at the hip.
If so, the total
cost will naturally
be greater —s ay,
somewhere in the neighborhood of a thou-
sand guineas. However, I hope that you will
then have the satisfaction of feeling that
we have made a really nice little job of you
—one that will enable you to carry on with-
out further expense for a year, or even
longer.
Max F.
* ¥
Maidens and youths who pillion-ride
Oft blossom into 'groom and bride;
The man’s life then becomes no treat;
He has to shift to the back seat.
Young Reggie was the gayest sheik
That ever lived for kisses.
And day by day and week by week
He won the hearts of misses.
But now poor Reggie’s ill in bed.
With lips no more he’ll frolic.
He swallowed so much substance red
That he has painter’s colic.
¥ *
“He used to spend money freely, but was checked
by - his wife.”
She Scotched the habit, in short.
• THE THANKOFFERING.
The hearse, containing the earthly remains
of old Blankard and an expensive pile of
floral offerings, was about to start for the
cemetery, when Wimzle. hurried up with an
enormous wreath. A friend who had_ noticed
the attached card, with its inscription, “In
ever grateful memory of my truest benefac-
tor,” expressed surprise.
“I always understood Blankard disliked
you, Wimzle?”
“So he did; he hated me. ’
“Why this rot about ‘ever grateful
memory’ then?”
“It was Blankard who stopped me marry-
ing his daughter.”
THE CAPTAIN OF INDUSTRY.
“These calamity-howlers make me tired,”
said the celebrated Australian plutocrat.
“There’s no need to go into the Backblocks
to make a fortune
—no need whatso-
ever. The money’s
right here in the
city just waiting to
be picked up. Am
I afraid of high
wages? Bah! The
higher the better. If
our politicians had
a bit of pluck and
imagination they’d
fix the basic wage
for single men at a
tenner, and allow
three half-holidays
a week. Could I
make my business
pay on such a
basis? Of course I
could! But then
there aren’t many
like me.” li’e
slapped his chest.
“Fifteen years ago
I landed in this city
with a tenner. Not
another bean in the
world. Wad y e r
think I done with
it?”
“Laid the foun-
dations of a great
industry no doubt.”
“Too right, I
did !”
“Started a factory, founded a shipping
line, opened a mine”— ; —
“Talk sense, boy! 1 slipped a Minister
of the Crown half me total capital for a
pony-racing concession, and I ain’t looked
back since.” 10-2-4.
* *
“Thieves Disappear with £lOO Worth of Tobacco.”'
—Melbourne Herald.
Into smoke?
SAFETY FIRST
MANAGER (at theatrical first night) : “Come
on to the stage, man—the whole house
is yelling ‘Author!’ You don’t want
more than that, do you?”
AUTHOR: “Well, yes—I want to know their
intentions.”
“Holdsworth did excellently with the ball, taking
four wickets for six guns.” —Sydney News.
This idea of introducing artillery to the
game may prove the solution of Australia’s
shortage of bowlers.
DOUBTS AND FEARS.
1 wonder if Amelia knows
That my heart’s rent asunder,
And that my love still burns and glows?
—I wonder!
Has she forgotten when we met
Beside the band rotunda,
Or does her passion linger yet?
—I wonder!
I’d also like to have the view
Of one who may raise thunder,
For I have fears her husband knew.
—I wonder!
DORIC.
HIS KNEW YERE’S RESOLUSHUN.
Bob Boldun’s Eagle Eye assumed a Look
of Anxiety as he Skanned the Horrizen. Not
that Our Hero Fered ort, but he was think-
ing of the Foolish Vow he had Maid on
Knew Yere’s Eve to the Fare Nelly Brite-
locks.
He had promised, when Flushed with
Xmas Cheer, that lie Wood Never Again
shute a Iluming-being. And now he Kood
see His Unscruplus Enemies Galoping
Harred frum all Sides to Destroy him in his
Defenslessness.
Bob was a Too-handed Gun Man. In
fack, it might be Sed that he was Fore-
handed. More Than Wuns, when in a Tite
Corner, he had Throne Aside his Boots and
Seezing a Revolver in Each Foot, as well
as In His Hans, had Kept his Enemies at
Bay, Firing with Unerring Aim in for dif-
ferent direkshuns. It was a F‘eet few others
could emerlate When Ridding at full Spede
on Horsebak.
And, Now, this Prins of Dead-shots was
helpless. Shorn, like Samson, of his Power
by the Girl He Luved! How to Iscape?
Behind him was a Cliff Falling Shere to
SLIPPED A DAY.
JACK: “Are your people always up when you get home?”
JILL: “No, only Dad. Mother doesn’t get up till late.”
the Yalet bellow. A Plan entered his Brane.
No Sooner Thort than done. With Unerr-
ing Aim he threw his Lassoo, So that the
End fastened etself to a Tree. He then
lept his Faithful Stede Over the Edge! With
the Nobble Animal Helled beneath him by
liis Toes, Bob lowered both into the Valet. A
Howl of Fury from His Pursuers, and they
were After Him along a Mounting Trak.
Hardly had he reached the Yalet than the
Miscreants were On him. In desperashun
he Turned at Bay. And now His Trusty
Revolvers Speek. Wun enemy after anut-
ther falls Lifeless. The Rest Flea.
% # # *
“He’s broke his Word!” ITornted the
villanus • Sir Mortimer de Maldemer. “Far
frum not shuting any more Huming-beings,
he to-day Killed five and Wounded Me!”
The Fare Girl’s I’s filled with Teres •at
this Everydens of her Lovers Perfiddy.
For answer Bob tore the Banddage from
the Villan’s throte.
“Sea!” he cried, Plucking a Stone from
the gaping Wound. “This Raskal was
Wounded by a Bit of Rock. An igspert .at
Cannons off the Cush, I merely fired at the
Cliff Side. I Thus Shot not my Pursuers
but the Cliff!”
“Curses!” Kried Sir Mortimer, and bust
into Teers of Frustrashun.
A perfessor has called Profishuncy at Bil-
liards a Sine of a Miss-Pent Youth—wich
only shows how Little perfessors kno. Had
Our Hero not been an Eggspert Billiard-
Player he wood not have been able To Fite
off his A-tackers wiles saving His Onner.
“Well have you kept your Promis !” cried
the Nobble Girl, failin’ in his Arms. “You
Have proved Yore Reliabillity, and we Shall
be Married to-day. Ferther, my Aged Sire
having Happily dyed to-day, Leeving me
all his Wealth, we will start off with a
Sixteenth Share in a Pony-Racing Course.
Yew need Never Work Again.”
At this Sir Mortimer Naslied his Teeth.
The ackshun Reminded a Dentist in the
Crowd that he had Not Paid for Them, and
The Perfidyus Knight was at Wuncc arrested
for Dett and dragged Kersing to Prison.
HAMER, JUNIOR.


■r' 'T.
J5gS
Sv
p*3
'C A 'Z»
1
A
iW
1
■/.->
i
V,T.
afg
SKv>
V
xr-.
,7
ALL WISE MEN
COME TO THIS CONCLUSION
Across the top of the new Johnnie
Walker stopper there’s a piece of
red tape. At its conclusion, a seal.
This is the end of every man’s search
for the supreme Scotch whisky....this
is the conclusion to which every wise
man eventually comes, for there is
no better whisky comes out of
Scotland than Johnnie Walker.
s
❖
4
Born 1820-
Still going Strong
:
KM!
tP" k-
*©
$0 ..••.. -
B&. *■&&£■
m
mm
Wm
-i“ir l
m
a?
saw
tvejj
3E
JS,*
Mm:-
M yr
if* ■
Lift the tag —remove the capsule —and a
twist of the finger and thumb will give
access to the spirit which has made and
kept more friends than any other whisky
in the 'world.
'
JOHNNIE WALKER
WHISKY
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, LONDON and KILMARNOCK.


PAINFUL POEMS
My housekeeper, from some
unknown cause,
Stupidly forgot to order,
Fresh provisions from the Stores
She's buried in the herbaceous
border,
—3
m
'ffu -
0,7 v i
3 r*. -> •. >• •/■.£'
y'
;' !3 -■'■
-<r~" -3 •
i&tfi&a?)
* ;c? \v $v
& & * •;■
-« Svi - q >
; :-v:, •■'-~v f v7.-
K-.
I|QS:
iiiiiiwiimi!
Mis
Between the pinks (the double
sort)
And the primulas of many colours,
—And all because she ran so short
Of cigarettes .... ABDULLAS !
—Fougasse
VIRGINIA
SUPERB
TURKISH
(Tgarettes
EGYPTIAN
THE SUNDERCUT Stump Jump Disc Cultivating Plough
10-DISC
SIZE
CUTS sft.
14-DISC
SIZE
CUTS 7ft.
Supplied
with
levers for
either
team or
tractor
mm
i
* ***'
i 11 1
y >* *
m
The
Summer
fallowing
implement
supreme.
Deals
effectively
with
Paddy-
melon
and other
heavy
weed
growths.
The 'Sundercut” has a greater sale in Australia then any other disc im
and stones, in hard set fallow, in virgin Mallee soils, and in fallow rank
a level bottom and leave a lumpy tilth ideal for moisture conservation.
plement. It works successfully in any type of country, amongst stumps
with weeds. The alternate 1 8 and 20-inch discs set with undercut, cut
Differential Cog Jump allows high jump without increase of draught.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE, AUSTRALIA
BRANCHES:
664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne. 27-39 George Street West, Sydney
95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide. Cr. Murray and King Streets, Perth.
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
H. V. McKAY (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
Descriptive Folder, Price and Terms posted jree on request.


tbhjhbjhķ
“ Your Radio Pleasure depends
on the Speaker The ONLY
Speaker guaranteed against hum
or rattle for the life of the Speaker.
That is the X-Core Dynamic Speaker—
made hy Magnavox, of course—for only
Magnavox may make a Dynamic Speaker.
Obtainable all Radio Dealers.
Battery operated D.C. Units, £5//5/-
A.C. operated from House Mains. A.C. Units, £7/15/ -
. mmm
S'
Cruising to
JAVA and
SUMATRA
1* irst-class round fare to Belawan
Deli (Sumatra), calling at Java ports,
Singapore and Penang: From Brisbane
and Sydney, £99; from Melbourne,
£lO5.
The K.P.M. invites you to wonder and wander in Java and
Sumatra, islands of exotic attractions.
Glorious days at sea, the comforts and conveniences of the
great Liners Nieuw Holland and Nieuw Zeeland will be a
delightful holiday for you.
The steamer is your hotel for the round voyage of seven weeks.
Full particulars from
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY
(K.P.M. Line),
255 George Street, Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., 11l William Street, Melbourne; Dals;etv & Co Briehtmo.
Elder, Smith & Co., Adelaide and Perth. '* ° ’
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your fancy, write
to the Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
KITE'S
kitzs
o, ilMy
Kitz’s Sparkling Cider
The finest drink with meals, as it
aids digestion and prevents acidity.
Dr. D. T. Fernie, of London, states:—
Cider is not only the most wholesome and
hygienic of all drinks, but is a preventive
against and a remedy for
Stone, Gravel, Gout, Obesity
and Fermentative Indigestion.
Agents in all States.
HEAD OFFICE: MELBOURNE.
&
$ v
J
J
o*
Pen and Picture
The
STARE
THEATRES
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
Shadow Shows
Anyone so highbrow as to think a thriller
can’t harm merit should examine “The Un-
holy Night” (M-G-M). The merit is not
confined to thrill, though this is classic of its
kind. The plot cannot fairly be given away,
but the general story concerns the deliberate
killing of all the officers of a British regi-
ment. For a start they go off singly. One
DOROTHY SEBASTIAN,
in “The Unholy Right.”
will be stand-
ing in the
thickness of a
soupy fog
when a ghastly
face will come
towards him
from behind;
white hands
will go up and
the string go
roun d the
t li r o a t to
throttle him.
This sort of
eerie killing
leads up to a
point at which
the picture
outdoes any-
thing in the
horror line
that this
Showman has
seen on the
movies. The
remaining offi-
cers are gath-
ered together in a titled member’s home, with
Scotland Yard in attendance watching over
them. They retire to their rooms, and in
the morning the camera finds each one of
them murdered. The use made of fog in creat-
ing uncanny atmosphere is one of the picture's
several fine features. The general excellence
of the acting is another. The cast includes
Claude Fleming, who went to Hollywood
from Australia and spent some time teaching-
movie stars how to speak English. It might
be his influence that accounts for the clean-
ness of the English in this picture. Pretty
well every member of the cast is a star
and the result springs the hope that other
picture makers may try the experiment and
let some of their so-called actors go back
to the milk-carts. The picture is based
on “The Doomed Regiment,” by Ben Hecht,
a novel said to have been founded on fact.
The same might be believed of Hans Ander-
sen.
When the title of “Words and Music”
(Fox) goes up on the screen, no harm
would be done if patrons put on their hats
and went for/ a long walk. The Bulletin
can’t imagine even the makers expecting this
squawkie’s first half-hour to be taken seri-
ously. Later the thing improves a bit, and,
for quarter of an hour, perhaps, it is fair.
Then it takes its grey hairs in wishywash to
the/ grave. It is set in an American college,
conceived, apparently, hy a schoolboy of
five. The college at a date ahead is to hold
its annual revue-night, and the two rivals
for the hand of one of the college damsels
have each written a revue. Then the damsel
gets herself entangled in a bit of ragging,
and an envious maid in the background
comes forward and insists on taking the
other girl’s place in the favored man’s revue,
as an alternative to spilling the beans and
getting her rival expelled. So on through
miles and miles of nauseating drawl, dis-
cordant saxophones and dialogue so bad that
it must have been written by a confirmed
imbecile. The picture’s oasis comes with
the college revue-night, when some of the
stage effects are well up to the average of
such things. Any girls’ school of 1860 vin-
tage that has a projecting plant can be
safely encouraged to hire this film.
On the morning The Bulletin was at
Fox’s screening theatre the frivolity above
described was interrupted to permit the show-
ing of one of this company’s Australian news
feels. It was like walking out of drought
country into a good shower. The reel was
of sailing boats racing on Sydney Harbor,
and it completely answered the recent allega-
tions that good topics are not chosen for
such films here. Whoever photographed the
picture can be congratulated on a splendid
job. He used his brains. The pictures tell
pretty well the entire story of a ding-dong-
sport. There were more than 50 yachts in
the racing, and some of the mass photos are
a joy to look at. The detail, too, is excel-
lent ; boats luffing and turning; bailing;
naked bodies leaning back right into the
water; a capsize. It is as interesting and
as Australian as anything The Bulletin
has had the pleasure of inspecting.
“The Love Doctor” (Paramount) pins
its claim to serious regard on a poor lot of
gags strung together with incidents that
are supposed to be daringly modern. Richard
Dix enthusiastically over-acts. A young-
doctor, he is singled out by Virginia, a really
nice nurse, as her life’s goal, and by Grace,
a little cat, as a pastime. Grace is loved
by an insipid youth who was ordered by Dix
to his mother’s country house in Virginia’s
charge. After an interview with Grace,
during which he discovers he has no trousers
(please shriek at this!), Dix visits
his _ patient and sees Virginia, who,
having made him sufficiently jealous, takes
him canoeing. They are upset, and he
rescues her, and carries her to a fishing
shack, and lights a fire in its one room,
and she disrobes and he is about to declare
his love when Grace and a follower arrive.
The four return to the country house, where
the. doctor is compromised by Grace, whom
he is ordered to marry. No, no! Dix drives
the cattish thing back into the insipid youth’s
arms by telling her of her future associates
in the lunatic asylum where he has accepted
a post. Here, having exhausted the regu-
lation length of film, the director puts aside
his scissors and paste and roars for Vir-
ginia to swoon under Dix’s explanatory
kisses, and so all ends happily.
“On with the Show” (First National) is
another talkie concerned with stage life,
elevated above the usual thing of the kind
by its being all in color and by that color
looking dinkum. This Showman hates to
think what the artists must look like when
made up, but flesh and other natural color-
ing is captured with striking fidelity. This
side of the picture represents definite advance
in the efforts to convert the movies from
mere running shadows to a semblance of life.
The tulle in the dancers’ drosses looks as if
one could put his hand out and find it
real. Excellent back-stage photography en-
hances the spectacle, and even the story is
better than usual.
A movie that promises to be well worth
inspecting is “Atlantis,” a combined British
and German effort. Its greatest scene shows
the Titanic crashing on the iceberg, and the
different reaction of varied characters to
such an ordeal provides all the grip that
even movie followers are likely to desire.
The Inky Way
There is virtue in having a book banned.
George Meudell, author of “The Pleasant
Career of a Spendthrift,” knocked back by
Melbourne and Adelaide booksellers, has
sold all the copies turned over to him, and
has cabled London for another supply.
“Phillip Street”: Sydney Guardian
joined the Sun stable on Jan. 1; and the
Sunday Guardian goes with it, but not
Smith’s Weekly. After the “conversa-
tions” had been begun it was found that
the Sun hadn’t the printing presses to pro-
duce the Guardian without altering the size
of the sheet; and as the High Command
reckoned that an alteration would be a mis-
take the agreement provides that Smith’s
Newspapers, Ltd., shall do the printing for
anything up to 12 months. There has been
some trouble over the staff—sorting out
those to be taken and those to be left, and
up to the last moment most of the people
who had been producing the Guardian didn’t
know which knight was going to be their
future boss, Hugh or Joynton. One thing
the Inky Way realises with sorrow: the
grouping of so many pafiers under one con-
trol isn’t likely to improve salaries.
A festive-season card (delivered a bit
late) to The Bulletin from an Inky Way-
farer in a smitten corner of the land
Greetings from .Hell. Boxing Day, 1929, 100 in
the shade, three-day dust storm still blowing, town
water polluted and undrinkable, farmers asking for
moratorium owing to losses in three years’ successive
drought, four children making more noise in the
next room than Satan’s side drummers, and father,
between getting the local rag out on time, writing
a novel that is founded on romance in a country
town, love and lovers, singing birds, plashing
streams, ruddy faced, prosperous farmers and simper-
ing maids.—Yours truly, The Mas with the Iron
Heart.
On the other side of the card a pictorial
array of young Empire-builders!
“P.X.” : Of course the announcement of a
Bulletin Jubilee Number has set the circle
arguing as to who is the oldest living con-
tributor. George _ Meudell claims to be, and
he’d certainly be in the first bunch. Wilfred
Blacket, K.C., can’t be far behind. He was
its first sub-editor, and remembers handling
the first bundle of copy that came to the
office from James Edmond; and James
Edmond joined the regular staff in 1886,
which is just on 44 years ago. George
Black, now M.L.C., wasn’t far behind him.
George, who had been on a paper out in
the Riverina, got a job lecturing at the
Cyelorama in George-street, down where the
ice-skating rink now is, and it was from
there that he was inveigled'An to the staff-
presently to leave it to become M.L.A. for
AVest Sydney. Among the artists, D. 11.
Souter seems to beat allcomers. When he
landed in Melbourne Phil May had recently
arrived —it was in. March, ’86 —and Souter
decided that he also would draw for the
paper. He confesses he didn’t know
much about drawing; still he knew
enough to get almost at once a job in
Sydney as cartoonist on the Tribune : his
fellow-sinner was Alf Clint, later better
known as a scene-painter. The Tribune
kept going for a few years; then Souter
beat up enough courage to submit something
to The Bulletin ; at least, one of the John
Sands family took a Souter drawing to his
friend Macleod (Souter had come to Sydney
to the John Sands printing firm). That was
accepted. Then Souter tried to get one
through without anyone to push it: so he
sent a sorrowing widow weeping that “he
was more like a friend than a husband.”
Came a letter from Macleod asking the artist
to call —and that’s how Souter started on
The Bulletin.
The Palette
“Saxon”: The English undergrads who
tied a paint brush to a donkey’s tail and
between dippings into different colors backed
the donk up to a canvas, tickled his flanks
and with the resultant swishes collected a
prize in a modernist art exhibition have been
at least equalled in New York. There Edwin
AA r . Dickenson’s modernist work “The Fossil
Hunters,” accidentally hung with its sides
for top and bottom, collected the Altman
prize of £lOO. The artist must have had his
own doubts about it: he had pencilled
detailed directions as to its top and bottom
on the back.
A glorious black-and-white show filled the
expansive David Jones (Sydney) ealleries
over the holidays, adding much 'gaiety to a
not exuberantly cheerful time of rejoicin'*
Anyone who couldn’t raise a grin over the
Punch originals strung up should at once
consult his chiropodist. Of outstanding
interest m a collection in which every one
of the few hundred items had points of merit
were a batch of Low views of British politi-
cians, including a beauty of Llovd Goor°-p
priced at £26. The artists included Heath’
Robinson, AVatts, Starr AVood and a dozen i
or so others.


Hanking, Public Companies, etc.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock f
Preference Shares .. .. • •
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,120
Ordinary Shares . . • • • •
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,091
GRANTS DRAFTS Zealand, Fiji”, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS ,or
and transacts al
fixed periods
other usual Banking business.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Fire Insurances'.^ 1 on ail classes of
— Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine RiSk S on Wool Merchandise,
- Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager. !
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting Loudon
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 850 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
%
tbhjhbjhķ
tbhjhbjhķ
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors —
COUNSELL, BOOTH & lIUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
Übe dominion.
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily .
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion' is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from —
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
price • • 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know,
Shipping, et«.
IS
C T..« 1
Z ' >
i'4' •
5!?!^; i !!!v!^!^ij!!^
Sufnm
ep
W&,
VISIT Hawaii this summer
and shoot the breakers
in the matchless surf of
Waikiki Beach. No more de-
sirable holiday can be planned
than a Union Company Excur-
sion Tour of Hawaii that
lovely island lost in the South Seas, lazy and laughing in sunshine. The
Canadian-Australasian Line last summer excursion tour, leaving Feb. 6, ’ wi
carry you through calm seas, opening the fascinating book of travel at New
Zealand, Fiji and Honolulu. Plan to sail on February 6.
£75 First Saloon; £55 Second (return).
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne, C.l.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN LINE
Excursion to Hawaii
wwwvw
s*
i
fia
f
MR
*
# Wx
'■'Vv
it"
BURNS-PHILP
TOURS
JAVA
(The Wonderland
of the East).
THE IDEAL HOLIDAY TRIP. JAVA OFFERS SOME-
THING FOR EVERY TASTE. INTERESTING PEOPLE.
QUAINT CUSTOMS. SMOOTH WATER VOYAGE.
WONDERFUL SCENERY.
Regular monthly sailings
“MARELLA” (7500 tons) and
by the favorite vessels
“MALABAR” (5000 tons).
The Beautiful Solomons
Full of interest and romance and
situated only seven days steaming n.-e.
of Sydney. The comfortable and
popular S.S. “MATARAM sails from
Sydney on February 5, and six-weekly
thereafter, visiting 30 picturesque
Ports.
ROUND TRIP 4\ WEEKS.
FARE £4l
Write for Pamphlet No. 52/S to
BURNS, PHILP AND
COMPANY, LTD.,
7 Bridge Street,
Sydney.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund ..
Reserve Liability
tbhjhbjhķ
£7,500,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, „J^® o6 ’ 297 -
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DA\ IDSON.
Head Office: George St-, Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
588 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world
S to, and drafts drawn on,. Foreign places DIRECT Fore.gn Bills Negated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Queensland’s Largest
Home-Read Daily
Newspaper
&/>e
“BRISBANE COURIER”
Unequalled in circulation the “Brisbane Courier” gives to
advertisers the most effective coverage in City, Suburbs and
Country. ~
Tested campaigns have proved the Courier to yield 75 per
cent, of returns.
Carries more advertising than two other Brisbane dailies
combined.
FIRST IN CIRCULATION, COVERAGE, ADVERTISING
AND INFLUENCE.
Published by the Brisbane Newspaper Co., Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane
N.S.W. Rep.: Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85007.
Shipping, ecc.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
. . 15,000 tons, Jan. 28
=> Nestor . . 15,000 „ Feb. 24
tßunic . . 12,500 „ Feb. 25
11,500 ~ Mar. 15
Ceramic . . 18,500 ~ March 25
* First class only. t“Cabin" class only.-
t First and third class.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
\ Joint
| Agents
Splendid Cheap Service
Via Suez Canal.
FAST OIL BURNERS
Fares to London from £3B.
To Colombo from £22.
Special Excursion Return Tickets to
Colombo issued from Sept, to Feb., £32-
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
SPACIOUS DECKS—DECK CABINS—EXCELLENT
MENU CINEMA —DANCE MUSIC REPRODUCED
WITH ELECTRIC AMPLIFIERS
CANVAS SWIMMING BATH
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
5 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 86701
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA— Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
SS WOLLONGBAR —Every 'iuesday evening,
nass’engors due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets
BRISBANE.
FARES ——
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £*
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/»/-
Steamer and First-cla.,s Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart Parker LiM
MagniNoent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LI MITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
WITH
his purchase of space
in “The Telegraph”
the advertiser acquires
the permanent interest
of an organisation
containing experts on
every aspect of the
printing business.
AND-
both reader and pur-
chaser appreciate the
workmanship.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co. Ltd.
Queen Street,
Brisbane.


p&
J Insist upon
O <s> of dl d> on 9 s
GIN
The Ingredients used in the production of GORDON’S GIN
are of the finest quality procurable, and contain the greatest percentage
of those important properties which are considered by the Medical
Profession to be most beneficial to the human system. It is very
highly rectified and contains no impurities of any kind ; it is there-
fore very easily digested and also aids the digestion of other beverages
with which it is mixed.
The name “ GORDON ” guarantees the very highest standard of
quality and absolute purity; a reputation enjoyed and jealously
guarded for over 150 years.
WHITEST, PUREST & BEST
The Heart of a good Cocktail
Ift
BY APPOINTMENT
The Largest Gin Distillers
in the World.
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
Gordons
dry Gin
IL©Kl®@Kl,
(HbLARO
feL !'" p
SilrtCOnTw lAt«6ow' I
| TANQUEWAY. CORDON *C g ]


1 k
A
FW
4
1
wspWi'ji
£T\
•''US*-
*
NNSS^
'W
\r-
V
r
sll
8
S . /
e
'^Twi
2% Tons of REX Foods
Wanting greatest food-value ui small bulk,
wanting at the same time meats unimpeach-
able in quality and a pleasure to eat, Sir
Douglas Mawson has taken with him: —•
1080 one pound cans of REX-PYE
5 cwt. of REX Canned Pork Sausage
5 cwt* of REX Canned Lorraine Smoked
Sausages
5 cwt. of REX canned Beef Sausages
1 ton of REX Bacon
ton of REX Hams
Conclusive proof to add to your own
experience that the famous REX Products
are of supreme quality; for Sir Douglas
could not afford to take risks with his food
supply*
Ask for REX products at all grocers and smallgoodsmen.
tbhjhbjhķ
REX-PYE
and 29 other food products, besides Hams and Bacon and Smallgoods
Write to us for a complete list.
JONES PTY. LTD.
Curers of the choice REX Hams and Bacon and Packers of REX-PYE and other famous REX Delicacies.


ACCURATE SHOOTING AT 500 YARDS.
NEW IMPROVED CADET RIFLE.
Hundreds of satisfied Shooters have used
297/230 CALIBRE CADET RIFLES.
Iccurat/?,,, id + eal K A?, ortinf ; rifl ®'.. Fi , res a central fire cartridge larger than a .22 calibre, and is
tion of mL! barrel. Under-lever Martini action, quick and certain in extrac-
sie-hf i ?-±P I shells. Detachable lock. Elevating ladder rear sight and protected bead front
signt. lotted complete with cleaning rod and brush 7 77/fi
Postage 2/6 extra. ///O
RTRIDGES.—Long (actual size illustrated) 7/ 6 per
caitridges are ordered with rifle, please state your nearest railway station, as cartriiges^cannot
be posted.
Va
PTY. LTD.
THE GUN PEOPLE,
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
You must try this
LIGHT BEER
RESCH’S
PILSENER
A Drink to Delight You.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
< AFPT . ThEVVE CHANGED THEIR
Umpire To D/w."
Bert? The ohe the> vams
VESTERDKy WA.S CAUGHT Out'
G\ERT ? V
Bv some of the
BA.RRA.C K.E^s'"
Under the Whip
A greatly-improved Sydney horse is Jeypore.
Ten or eleven months ago he was a third-rater
with an annoying habit of fading at the
finish of seven- or eight-furlong handicaps,
but he has seasoned into a real stayer who
can make all his own running and then come
home strong. He is a four-year-old stallion
by Highfield-Broncurry, and the H'ighfields
improve with age and racing. Favorite (at
7 to 2) for the Tatt.’s Club Cup on the
strength of his second to Donald in the
Summer Cup, Jeypore led at every stage of
the journey, having enough left in him at
the end of a mile and a half, traversed in
2min. 32sec., to withstand John Buchan's
strong challenge. Donald, who gave Jeypore
251 b. and John Buchan 331 b., was a gallant
third. The old fellow was second favorite
at sevens, John Buchan (and four others)
being at eights. Jeypore is owned by one
“Brendan Grantley,” and was ridden by a
very smart jockey named Goldstone, who is
apprenticed to the trainer, Duggan.
Pat Osborne, who owns John Buchan, will
have to take .a short price about his English
horse for the Sydney Cup if John keeps on
improving. His finish greatly impressed keen
judges. Baverwrack looked dangerous for
about a mile and a quarter but failed to
come on. Perhaps the jockey was more to
blame than the horse. Baverwrack requires
a strong boy, and little Marsden is anything
but that.
George Price, the little Maoriland trainer
who has done so well at Randwick, saddled
up eight winners during the Christmas meet-
ings at Randwick, and McCarten rode them
all. After his unaccountable failure in the
Villiers Stakes, Gesto, also from Maoriland,
won three good races for Price and Mc-
Carten, the last, (the Alfred Hill Handicap )
with l()st. 31b., the minimum being 7st. and
the distance nine furlongs. He is a splendidly
game fellow, this chestnut—in fact, there is
not a better bit of stuff in racing condition
'about Sydney at the present time.
:K Jj: * *
Cleave ran well for six furlongs in the
division of the Flying Handicap which
Raisirt and Greenline —subsequently second
and third in the Carrington Stakes —fought
out at Rosehill. But Sydney punters had
grown tired of backing the Wedge mare, so
they let her go out at 10 to 1 for the
Sefton Handicap at Warwick F'arm on
Saturday. To their chagrin she danced
away from a big field in the straight, beat-
ing the favorite, Newsore, by lengths in the
fast time of Imin. 12fsee. She was re-
strained in the early part by Johnstone, and
apparently she does better that way—a good
.many horses do—than if ridden in front.
Cleave is one of Nailon’s string, and her
victory afforded that trainer some compen-
sation for the failures of Star God.
Dion, now an aged horse, has proved a
profitable speculation for James Murdoch,
M.L.C., though his percentage of wins is not
high. Well handled by young Pratt, the
Demosthenes gelding landed the January
Handicap from Divulge and Our Liz. He
was 6 to 1 in a field of eight, Divulge being
favorite at twos. Divulge’s backers blamed
the jockey for the defeat of their hope, who,
like Newsore, comes from Newcastle, but,
fit and well, Dion is the better of the pair.
X * *
For Canterbury Park on Saturday:—
Flying Welter: Energique; next, Green-
sea.
Park Stakes: Yoleuse.
Canterbury Handicap: Baverwrack or
Tarapunga (same stable) ; next, Octember.
Welter: Bavacre; next, Gipsy King.
* * * *
For once Neville Percival did not return
to Westralia for the Perth Cup meeting.
He accepted engagements in Melbourne in-
stead, and probably did not suffer in pocket
for his departure from custom, since he rode
the winner of the Bagot Handicap at Flem-
ington on New Year’s Day. A. T. Creswick’s
colt Romany Rye, with a 71b penalty for
his success at Caulfield, was a 2-to-l favorite,
the same owner’s Cimbrian being next in
demand at sixes. Cimbrian, who has prob-
ably had enough racing this season, finished
a long way back, but Romany Rye, though
last at one stage, was leading a furlong
from home. He was, however, cut down by
Percival’s mount, Lucky Card (10 to 1),
who beat him decisively by three parts of
a length, Balmerino (8"to 1) being a good
third. Lucky Card is a four-year-old bay
mare by Lucknow —Cardinalis, owned by
W. G. Brown and trained by E. J. O’Dwyer.
Had Romany Rye reversed positions with
Lucky Card, Elliott, who rode him, would
have brought off a big double, for that jockey
was on Birdcage, winner (at 16 to 1) of the
Standish Handicap. Birdcage was perhaps
lucky to beat Strogoff (8 to 1), who finished
much the faster after getting badly away,
but “S. A. Rawdon” is used to running
second by this time. The pacemaking St.
Lucia (12 to 1) was third ; Spanish Galleon,
the favorite, threw her rider as the barrier
went up. The Standish was run in Imin.
13sec.; the Bagot in 2min. 32fsec.
* * * ' *
Sir Roy, who was favorite for the V.A.T.C.
Ilopetoun Handicap, won by Romany Rye,
did not run in the Bagot Handicap. Decid-
ing that little fish were sweet, his party
kept him for the Aspendale Park Handicap
on Saturday. It had to take 6 to 4 for
its money, but Sir Roy easily accounted for
Cosy Rig and Cimbrian, the only other two
backed in a field of six. Veteran Bob Lewis
had an untroubled ride. Cimbrian’s brother
Hebrus (10 to 9 .on), also owned by A. T.
Creswick, had a hollow victory in the Three-
year-old Handicap, and with Bst. 101 b. up
he galloped 7i furlongs in Imin. 33|sec.
Dempsey had the mount, and was also on
another short-priced favorite who succeeded,
Lou Robertson’s Isocrates (5 to 4) in the
Aspendale Plate. With Duncan out of
action and Munro on his way to Germany,
Dempsey has an obvious chance of regain-
ing his old prominence.
* *■ * *
For Epsom on Saturday:—
Epsom Handicap: Belle Gallante; next,
Pendennis.
Plate: Lady Backbite; next, Binna.
* * * *
Colored has failed to strike form in West-
ralia, and perhaps after all he was well
sold at 1000 guineas. He was given a run
in a minor handicap at the Perth Gup meet-
ing, but did not show up, and was taken
out of the Cup. That race went to Cool-
barro, a Magpie—Space gelding, bought for
550 guineas at the Sydney .Easter sales in
1927. He had spreadeagled his field in the
Perth Stakes, a w.f.a. race, on the first day
of the meeting, but because he had done no-
thing in particular for a long time previously
a lot of people would not have him for the
Cup, although he had only ,Bst. Abergwain,
with the minimum weight, was favorite, and
ran a good race, but Coolbarro beat him
by three-quarters of a length in the first-
class time of 3min. 25isec., Flying Miss
being third. Seven to one in the ring, Cool-
barro returned £4 18s. straightout and £1
19s. place on the 10s. machines; Abergwain
paid £1 Bs., and Flying Miss £4 9s. Capital
dividends all.
Coolbarro is owned by Wittenoom and
Lefroy, who belong to historic Westralian
families, and was ridden by the crack West-
ralian jockey Morley. Later in the meet-
ing Morley fell foul of the stewards, and
was ordered into retirement for six months.
Coolbarro will probably be brought to the
Eastern States to emulate the deeds of Mis-
tico, lan Or, Lilyveil, Eurythmic, Easing-
wold, Lilypond, Maple and Second Wind.
The Imperial Handicap, the big race on
the last day of the W.A.T.C. meeting, gave
the tote another excellent advertisement. It
went to Battledore, a locally-bred nag by
Cunjeboy out of a Sparta mare. Twenty
to one with the bookmakers, Battledore re-
turned £l5 9s. straightout and £5 2s. for
a place, while Ergotic (second, 20 to 1) and
Hint (third, 12 to 1) paid £4 6s. and £3
4s. respectively. All on the 10s. machines.
The Ins and Outs
Though Queensland started well in the
Sheffield game against N.S.W. in Sydney, the
Bananalanders showed their old inability to
clinch a favorable situation. Really good
bowling by Thurlow (4-83) and Hurwood
(4-57) saw the Welshmen skittled for 235
on a plumb wicket. Hurwood’s bowling was
most impressive, and, coming on his success
in Victoria and South Australia, has con-
siderably boosted his stock. A medium right-
hander, he swings the ball, which comes with
a disconcerting lift off the pitch. Queens-
land could do no better than 227, in spite of
a valiant effort by Goodwin, who top-scored
with (57. McCabe bowled excellently to get
5 for 36.
In the second innings N.S.W. completely
mastered the bowling of the, visitors. A
great stand by Kippax (115 in his best
manner) and Bradman (205 n.o. at stumps)
put them in a safe position, and on Monday
Bradman lowered Ponsford’s world’s record,
made against Tasmania, in 1927-28, by run-
ning to 452 n. 0., the innings being closed
at 8 for 759. The amazing youngster batted
for seven hours and did not give a chance.
Hurwood took 6 for 179.
* * * *
Victoria easily accounted for South Aus-
tralia at Melbourne Cricket Ground, winning
outright by 7 wickets. South Australia
opened with 244, Nitschke topping the scores
with a stolid 53. Vic. Richardson was run
out for 4. The University bowler, a’Beckett
took 3 for 40. Ponsford showed improved
form for 47 in Victoria’s first knock, which
yielded 331, but a forceful 77 by Jack Ryder
was the most attractive feature of the inn-
ings. Wall, with 4 for 60, earned his oats,
including Ponsford and Ryder in his bag.
South’s second essay totalled 297, B. W.
Hone, who made 46 in the first innings, run-
ning to 106. Ironmonger got among the
wickets with 4 for 88, but a’Beckett again
took the honors with 5 for 63, or 8 for 103
in the match. Victoria was only 11 runs
behind at stumps on Saturday. Resuming
on Monday, Ponsford, ivlio had batted in
something like his old form, added 3 runs
to his score before Grimmett bowled him
for 110. Ryder (29 n. 0.) and Alexander
(4 n. 0.) knocked off the runs to win, the
board reading 213.
* x x *
“Cover”: To make a century (125 re-
tired) and then to take all 10 wickets of
his opponents in a one-day match was the
feat of Reg Addis in a game at Tenterden
(W.A.) on December 15. ‘ The other side
were playing for 1 a draw, but, with 15 min-
utes to go, Addis dismissed their last six
batsmen—three in the last over—and won
the match. Addis was a member of the
South Aus. Junior Colts’ side in December,
1927. Charlie Walker, the present South
Aus. ’keeper, was his captain.
(Continued on page 37.)
The third Test match between the Eng-
lish Northern Unipn and its Australian con-
frere, the Rugby League, took place at Swin-
ton in Lancashire on Saturday and ended
in a scoreless draw after a strenuous battle.
On this occasion, though the heavy going
suited the Englishmen, the visitors’ vanguard
mixed it with the best of them, and more than
held their own. McMillan gave a great
exhibition at full back for the Australians,
The result leaves honors easy, Australia hav-
ing won the first match and lost the second.
In points scored Australia leads handsomely,
having recorded 34 to 17.
#
Bill Tyson (Bst. 71b.), a local youth who
has been fighting in preliminaries, appeared
in the main bout at Sydney Stadium on
Saturday night and outpointed Jack Harris,
of Melbourne, at the end of 15 rounds. For
most of the journey the mill was tame.
THE COMPLETE SCEPTIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“What, fell?" lie growled. “Of course, the
blankard fell!
Don’t talk to me; d’you think I’m goin’
blind?
I know (that strong-arm jockey knows as
well)
Its mouth's too hard to hold it in behind ;
And with the goats they’ve got racin’ around
It wasn’t safe to make the easy play
And push it—ride it fair into the ground,
In case they couldn’t catch it, anyway.
And so he climbs some heels in front and
skids,
Aud slides off soft and safe —they’re tough,
these kids..
“The stipes?” he sheered. “They didn’t find
a ramp,
You say, and’brought it in an accident?
What of it? Ilell, you wouldn’t want a
lamp
To look and see the way their money
went!
Aw, no; I’m not insinuatin’, son,
But say your wad was on the goat that
wins,
And something better never gets a run
And, providential-like, slips off its pins;
Supposin’, now, ’twas just like that; and,
cripes!
You’re asked to find out why—they’re hard,
these stipes.
“The horse?” he grumbled. “Broken down
for good ?
That what you heard? Well, that’ll save
no bets.
And, anyway, there's niggers in that wood,
You’ve only got the word of these here
vets.
All in it, likely. What? Boy broke his leg.
The doctor says, and got concussion, too?
I see you think that takes me down a peg
Or two, and so it might—if it was true!
But that’s the doctor’s secret and the jock’s ;
Of course, they say it’s broke—they’re sly,
these docs.
“Not dead?” he said. “Of course the cow
was dead!
I sort o’ guessed it when I got a look
At how the flamin’ list o’ figures read
Against its name in Mick Mac Cohen’s
book.
And all the stipes and vets, and docs, galore,
t Or other witnesses you’ve got to show,
No matter what they said or what they
swore,
Wouldn’t change that. And if you want
to know,
If you had gone on oath that it was tryin’,
And it had won —-you would ’ve still been
lyin’!”
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


:
;
WM
m
:' .y ;:;;;: |ip '
>. I «• /
' \ / / *^S4
SSffiSS
Mi
Mr Hi
Mi
iliill»»*lil
mm
■ ■■
#
m
MM
m
fifS ZS&&SS
:
k
MmmM
.
S
Mi
iV < -
if’
£T '*"l
lllllli
Mil
m
Pit
XSWSW
III!
n\
/.
t
To Sparkling ‘Pep’
In a Few Minutes
’ll
I
r
WOULDN’T YOU like to have younger blood racing through
your veins; clearer eyes; brain of razor-edge keenness; the
sunny optimism and good spirits of perfect health? Of course you
would and you CAN --- through this wonderful new Yeast treat-
ment! ‘Cream of Yeast’ is a remarkable discovery---it combines
the best features of a super-yeast (greatly concentrated) with other
recognised medicinal agents, in such a way as to increase the value
of the yeast and produce benefits not obtainable in any other way.
CONSIDER THESE STARTLING BENEFITS :
0
NOTHING TO PAY-
/FIT FAILS!
4 CREAM OF YEAST’—
Relieves Headaches and Neuralgia in
4 minutes.
Relieves Influenza, Catarrh-Colds,
Rheumatism, etc., within 15 hours.
Relieves Acidity, Flatulence, Gas-
tritis, and Indigestion in 3 minutes
Gives marked increase of Forceful
Vigour in 15 minutes.
Relieves Depression and Brain Fag
in 8 minutes
Clears the System of harmful poison •
ous wastes in 12 hours.
Relieves Aches and Pains of Women .
Steadies Nerves and Overcomes
Hysteria within 10 minutes.
Clears Boils, Pimples, and Eruptions
usually within 2 days .
Why Yeast is Life
Yeast is a wonderful medicinal food. It
is richer than any other known substance
in ‘Vitamine B’ —so vitally necessary to
the human system. Take away this element
from the food of humans or animals, and
pain, weakness and serious illness at once
commences. Increase the supply and at
once health improves—fitness is recovered
with phenomenal rapidity.
By means of a tiny amount of the super-active
principle of yeast, paralysed pigeons have heen
cured in a few hours > ‘Cream of Yeast’ is a
super-yeast, tremen*
dously concentrated.
Moreover, by a unique
process oir medicinal
combination, it is
made incomparably
more efficient for
general use than any
other form of yeast.
Unequalled for Stopping
Pains
‘Cream of Yeast’ increases the flow of gastric
juices, thus aiding digestion. It hastens the
elimination of putrefactive colon poisons from the
system, thus purifying the blood, clearing the com-
plexion, and toning the system. At the same time
it stops aches and pains as nothing else can. No
form of aspirin or aspirin mixture can compare
with ‘Cream of Yeast’ for promptness of effect
or safety. No laxative or cathartic can give such
benefits. No stimulant can afford such lasting
assistance! By taking ‘Cream of Yeast’ regu-
larly as directed the nerves are kept calm and
steady; the brain clear; and the body’s resistance
to all kinds of ailments is greatly increased.
Make This Trial
Nothing to Pay Unless You Get Quick
Benefit in Your Own Case!
Try just one package of ‘Cream of Yeast.’
Drink six glasses of water a day and get eight
hours 7 sleep each night. If, at the end of a week,
you aren’t amazed at the improvement in your
health and looks, return the empty bottle and get
your money back. Thus you are guaranteed the
truth of these claims in your own individual case—-
or the trial costs you nothing at all! Any chemist,
grocer or store can supply you, so start on this
glorious road to new health and fitness to-day l
Amalgamated Laboratories. Kembla Building, Sydney
‘Cream of Yeast*
is obtainable at all
chemists and stores
in flasks of 24
Tablets, 1/11; and
48 Tablets, 3/6 ;
125 Tablets , 5/9.
Cream °f Yeast
. FOR YOUTH/


COUNTRY TENNIS WEEK
Bth until 18th January
Mick Simmons extend a hearty and personal welcome to those
Country Players in town for their Annual Tennis Week. An invita-
tion is also extended to visit this great sports Store, and to inspect
the most comprehensive and complete displays of Tennis Rackets
and material showing in all Australia to-day. Mick Simmons experts
are at the service of any player in the selection of a racket. . . .
ready with sound advice as to correct weight, balance, etc., suitable
to his or her individual requirements
Mick Simmons
For Every Tennis Need
The “ Oxford ” series of
Rackets, although remark-
ably low-priced, are indis-
putably comparable to
many of the higher-priced
Rackets of to-day.
w
J
OXFORD RACKETS
LIGHT NT N G
Although remarkably low-priced, it is a racket that will give
lasting service and stand up to hard usage. Strung
with dependable English Gut 45/
BRITANNIC
For quality, dependability and craftsmanship this racket, in
its own particular price-group, has no equal in the Tennis
world to-day. Strung with dependable English
Gut .. . . 55/-
OCEANIC
A very beautiful racket that perfectly serves the needs of the
lady player. Imparts that “feel” to the user. Strung
with special quality English Gut 65/-
MASTERSTROKE
Embodies the very latest principles of scientific racket con-
struction. Two-piece frame of super ash, with centre inlay;
new, separate ash shoulder overlay. Guaranteed to give the
maximum of service it is possible to get out of a
racket strung with best English Gut 77/6
You'll Find Every Known Make of
Racket at Mick Simmons!
SPALDING’S
RACKETS
Spalding’s Kro-Bat . . 75/-
~ Model O.S. 75/-
~ Top Flite 80/-
SLAZENGER’S
RACKETS
Slazenger’s Cavalier . . 80/
~ Primoris . . 80/
~ Queen’s . . 75/
TENNIS SUNDRIES
“ZEPHYR**
ALUMINIUM PRESS
The new perfect racket-press.
Hailed by the Tennis World as
the best thing of its kind yet
introduced . . . 8/6
EYE-SHADES
Green Eye-shade, transparent,
with elastic straps . . 1/3, 1/9
Eye-shade, white, green under
peak, elastic web straps . . 3/6
RACKET COVERS
Waterproof canvas, leather
bound, with handle .... 7/6
Waterproof drill, with pocket
and handle 5/6
Racket head cover, water-
* 'cn- XV c i HCfIU OUVCIi W dLcl"
proof 1/6, 2/-, 2/6
RUBBER GRIPS
Handle Grips, rubber, ribbed
and fancy pattern
(Carriage paid on Tennis Material.)
All Letters to It ox 188, 720, P. 0., Haymarhet, Sydney.
MickSimmonsltd.
HEADQUARTERS: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
“The Leaders in Outdoor Sport and Home Entertainment.”
The Ins and Outs
The Queenslanders had hard luck to lose
their match against South Australia in Adel-
aide by one run on the first innings, though
every credit must be, given to Grimmett and
Carlton for the dogged stand which saved
the Wlieatfielders. Good bowling by H'ur-
wood (4 for 81) dismissed the balance of
the home side for 381, a run ahead of the
visitors. The latter took 209 in their second
attempt, Whitfield (4-53) and Carlton
(4-85) proving difficult to master on the
wicket. Hone (35), Pritchard (43) and
Richardson (42) were the only South Aus-
tralians able to do much with the bowling
of Hurwood (5-62). Nine wickets were down
with 39 runs wanted when Carlton came in to
see out time with Grimmett. He was success-
ful, and the clock struck with the South Aus-
tralians 31 behind, but with a winning lead
of one on the first. Hurwood’s 9 for 143 was
the outstanding bowling performance of the
match.
* * * *
The Sheffield game between N.S.W. and
Victoria in Melbourne was allowed to finish
in futile fashion by Ivippax, who was con-
tent to go for a certain first-innings win
rather than attempt an outright victory.
N.S.W. replied to the Victorian first knock
of 229 with 402, Bradman (89), Ivippax
(80) and Marks (63) scoring consistently,
while Blackie’s 3 for 71 was the best bit of
bowling. Victoria’s second essay produced
343: most of the runs came from Hendry
(103), Scaife (60) and a’Beckett (56).
With 171 runs needed to win outright and
123 minutes to get them, the opening N.S.W.
batsmen, Phillips and Fairfax, crawled along
like snails until all hope had gone. McCabe,
(50) and Bradman (26) were not out at
stumps only 26 runs down. N.S.W. won by
173 on the first innings.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Among the younger Victorian
cricketers who are renewing their promise is
a’Beckett, who, selected as a bowler in a
couple of Tests last season, was more 1 suc-
cessful with the bat. This year he has done
excellently both with bat and ball, and
must receive consideration from the selectors
J. W. COOK, one of Sydney’s foremost
trainers, who scored well at the A.J.C.
summer meeting.
if he maintains his form for the rest of the
Sheffield season. He has been kept put of
the limelight by his University exams., •which
he very wisely saw through before turning
full attention to the game. A fast-medium
right-hander, with a fine delivery and the
ability to spin the ball, he should do well
on English wickets. He should get his
chance in any case, for he is to go up to
Oxford at the end of the year—the first
Australian Test player to do so.
The Watermen
“Blade”: That mythical Scottish spider
could show no points to Drummoyne (N.S.W.)
Rowing Club in the matter of pertinacity.
The club has boated crews in all sorts of
events and at all kinds of regattas for four
solid years without registering a win. The
luck changed at the Balmain regatta last
week, when the club broke its egg with a
double, taking the lightweight maiden fours
and the maiden ditto. As one pressman
put it, “an impromptu celebration was
immediately held.” A more thoroughgoing
affair is to follow later, under the eye of
officialdom. As usual Bobby Pearce mopped
up the sculling events.
* * * :•:
“Hotliam”: Since the Lake Colac fiasco,
when rough weather prevented the hold-
ing of the Victorian championship fours on
the Gippsland sheet of water, the Victorian
rowing authorities have been looking round
for another substitute for the Yarra. The
latest suggested is a course on the Goulburn
River near Nagambie. This is a three-
miles stretch, able to accommodate eight crews
abreast. The stream will require a little
logging, but local enthusiasts are willing
to undertake the expense. The spot is some
60 miles north of Melbourne and easily
accessible.
“Glenelg”: Port Adelaide was the venue
for the South Australian champion 'fours
this year, the two-miles event being won by
thq, Mercantile club, with Port Pirie
and Torrens filling the places. Mannum,
fallen from its high estate these days, was
fourth, and Port Adelaide, the only other
starter, fifth. A. W. Blank stroked the
winners well, and the time was 14min.
Last year the event was won by Port in
12min. I3sec., but the course was down
stream, with a strong following wind.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut Shot”: The Davis Cup contest is
growing closer. The recently published
schedule shows that the first round must be
finished by May 6, the second by May 18,
and the third by June 9. Zone’ finals are
set down for July 11, 12 ! and 13, inter-zone
finals for July 18, 19 and 20, and the
Challenge rounds for the closing days of
the month. The arrangements for the first
round will not give the Australians, who
are to play in the European zone, much time
if they are not to leave this country until
the middle of March.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: The long-expected
appearance of William Tilden on the. Lon-
don stage has forced the kindest critics to
the conclusion that be had better not give
up tennis for acting—at least not for some
time. One well-intentioned commentator re-
marks that Tilden has “quite an agreeable
voice, but is remarkably stiff and stilted in
his movements, considering the ease, grace
and speed with which he is accustomed to
move on the tennis court.”
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The Australian
tennis championships, which begin at the
Kooyong (Vic.) courts on January 18,
include an innovation in a championship for
junior girls. Candidates must be under 21,
which “dates” the other women players in
a rather unfeeling fashion. If I know any-
thing about the tennis female of the species,
there will be a rod in pickle for the respon-
sible officials at some future date.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: The coming of Walter
Hagen suggests a glance over his record in
big golf. Only 37, he has bagged all the
important championships in America and
Europe. In his own 'country he has won the
American open three times, the Western
American open twice, the Metropolitan (N. •
York and district) three times, the North
and South American open twice, and the
American professional championship five
times. On the other side of the Atlantic
his scalps include the French open, the
Belgian open, and that of Great Britain
(thrice), in addition to representing
America against Britain in the Ryder Cup.
About the only important European title to
escape him so far is the British professional
championship.
s!s * * *
“C.Q.L.” : Just passed over in Melbourne,
W. S. Nankivell, who won the amateur
golf championship of Australia in 1927 at
Sandringham (Vic.). Nankivell, who was
only 26, had a meteoric rise in the ancient
game. He was not thought good enough to
represent Royal Melbourne in the pennant
matches in the same year that he walked
away with the ribbon from the experienced
Legh Winser.
!t: * * *
“Brassey”: That marathon golf match
(B. 25/12/’29) is only a pup. There is a
famous instance at Aberdeen, where they
believe in saving everything, even time. The
player completed 12 rounds of the Aber-
deen links between six in the morning and
8.30 p.m. He then completed his contract
by walking 10 miles, all in the 24 hours,
and collected his 3d. wager. In America,
one Daniells played 228 holes in 15 hours,
and his average card for each 18 holes was
77. The distance covered was 35 miles.
* * * *
“Iconoclast”: Now that St. Andrews has
bowed to the storm and permitted the steel
shaft, isn’t it about time that the rather
frowsy old game of golf was taken in hand
and reconditioned ? Consider the size of the
hole, for instance. I suppose the. recording
angel has worked more overtime in connec-
tion with missed putts than because of any
other feature of the game. One English club
has experimented with a hole of five inches
in diameter, or three-quarters of an inch
more than that at present in use. The change
has not been a success, and, considering that
the average golfer misses his putts by a lot
more than a three-quarter-inch margin, that
is not surprising. Now, one stout lad. in
Britain has come forward with a suggestion
that the diameter be increased to eight
inches. I doubt, however, if that would bring
surcease to the dud putter’s sorrow. If it
were increased to eight feet, he would go
on missing them just the same.
'r »!* v
“Miramar” : M aol ‘iland’s professional golf
championship, which is one of the big annual
fixtures in Dominion golf, is to be held at
Heretaunga on February 27 and 28, the day
after Hagen and Kirkwood show at Welling-
ton. The title is held by A. J. Shaw, of
the Napier club, and the idea of putting the
event forward in the, season is to give the
visiting professionals a chance to see the
two American cracks (Joe Kirkwood is now
a naturalised Yankee) in action. The M.L.
golf authorities are wondering how the
proposed charge of 10s. per head to watch
the famous pair will work out. M.L. golf
•addicts are accustomed to seeing the best of j
golf for nothing, and the fear has arisen j
that they may resent the innovation by
staying away with enthusiasm.
* * * *
“The McHaggis” : Ever since the war it
has been the complaint of the British golfer
that the ordinary licensing conditions apply-
ing to public houses and hotels are equally
binding on golf-club bars. Players striving
to get round before the moving finger writes
press on their game and suffer in status as
golfers thereby. The National Golf Club
Protection Association is undertaking a cam-
paign to have the matter brought before a
Royal Commission. There seems no reason
why the Australian system of keeping the 19th
open from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m., and as long as
you like after that, should not be adopted.
It’s heaps better than the American idea of
carrying a flask in the liip-pocket, with fresh
supplies planted in the bunkers.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: The proposed agreement
between the N.S.W. golf clubs to unite in
one organisation for the control of the game
has been hung up.again. The latest objection
comes from the big Royal Sydney and Aus-
tralian clubs, which have long considered
themselves a caste apart in N.S.W. golf. At
present, with 3000 members, the two big
clubs have six delegates on the governing
body, while, with from 6000 to 8000 mem-
bers, the other clubs of N.S.W. are only
permitted the same number. The Pooh
Balls have refused to consider an increase
in the number of outside club delegates, and
a deadlock has ensued. The obvious course
is to ignore the pair of them and go on with
a separate organisation.
(Continued on page 39.)


1
3. " '
M : •/;
ms
mm
Wm
MHM
ggfgl
ss
%
C OUhj-r-
-*Y
f/p£
l ipplPAße
E?«k
rr e
HI
i # *g
*u
1
«*> '.
fo «-:
■
If
m-
"'■%i
3®
In tobacconists’ windows everywhere,
you’ll see this sign, reminding you of the
better value cigarette whenever you go
to buy. It tells you all the facts at a
glance: 23 Cigarettes (3 more than the
usual 20)—the ordinary price of 1/6
cork-tipped and packed in handsome tin.
The “ and better,” means just this:
Country Life’s tobacco is a new blend
of finer Virginian quite different from
anything you’ve ever smoked. You
certainly should try it.
Still
25
and in tins of
50 and 100
COUNTRY LIFE
CORK TIPPED
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
Made in Your Own Countnj at ike Garden factory * bij W.D&8.0. Wills (Australia) Ltd,


SJMOfijg
Vi
W
Sfvl.Mj
y"
\
V
s
Co,
&S
•No I** 1 **
t»!
A*-*"
sSS£
id
4hjy 0
V l£s^>
CfyotoristsWise
SIMONIZ
Sold by All Good Motor Houses, Service
Stations and Hardware Stores at 2/9 Small
Cans; 5/6 Large Cans. In case you cannot
obtain
r
locally
see
note
below
Simonizing is so easy,
and costs so little. Yet is so
necessary because it makes the
finish more durable and beau-
tiful — and keeps colors
from fading.
Simoniz
and Simoniz
Kleener, wonderful
paste compounds, are applied
with a cloth. A container of each
will keep a car looking
new for a long
Simoniz Kleener quickly
removes all dirt, scum and
tarnish —and restores lustre and
color. Simoniz gives lasting
protection to the
finish.
APPLY WITH
A CLOTH.
M
A
D
E
I
N
A
U
S
T
R
A
L
I
A
L*
ANOTHER WONDERFUL
SIMONIZ
PRODUCT—
SIMONIZ
PENETRATING
GRAPHITE
OIL
“LOOSENS THE TIGHTEST NUT.”
Simoniz Penetrating Graphite Oil
instantly
DISSOLVES RUST,
LUBRICATES CAR SPRINGS,
STOPS CHASSIS AND BODY
SQUEAKS,
FREES GUMMED MOTOR VALVES,
LOOSENS ALL TIGHT NUTS
AND BOLTS.
Sold in handy Boz. can with long spout. Price 2/9.
IP YOU CANNOT OBTAIN SIMONIZ PRODUCTS
PROM YOUR USUAL DEALER, SEND POSTAL
NOTE TO
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS ,
MOTORITE EQUIPMENTS PTY., LTD.,
Carlton, Melbourne.
FREE SAMPLES
OF SIMONIZ AND
KLEENER ON REQUEST.
A New Set of
LODGE
PLUGS
is a wonderful stimulus
to your engine.
Lodge C 3 is illustrated, the plug for
nearly all engines screwed metric.
LODGE PLUGS, LTD.,
\ \] \
You Need
ZtMBUK
In Your Home
So many dangerous complications
threaten after the simplest mishap that
a quick, safe healer like Zam-Buk is
indispensable. Children are always
cutting their heads and knees, house-
wives get burns and scalds, and the
husband at his work or sports faces
the risk of blood-poison every day.
Pain and inflammation are quickly
allayed by Zam-Buk. This great anti-
septic balm kills bad germs, prevents
festering and blood-poison, and grows
new skin, Never be without Zam-Buk.
There is nothing “just as good."
This great herbal ointment "Keeps” longer
than lardy ointments. It is unequalled for
eczema, acne, bad legs, ulcers, poisoned
wounds, scalp disease, ringworm, piles, eto.
1/6 box & 3/6 family size. Zam-Buk Medici*
nal Soap 1/- a tablet. All chemists.
GET fl BOX TO Pfly
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Caledonian Bowling Club,
Dunedin, New Zealand.
JUBILEE—IBBO-1930
JUBILEE CELEBRATIONS,
FEBRUARY 8-10, 1930.
Old Members of the above Club are requested
to communicate with the undersigned, advising
the dates of their membership, and stating if
they can be present at the celebrations.
L. J. EDWARDS, Secretary,
P.O. Box 229, Dunedin, N.Z.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: Westfalia is fortunate in the
possession of many natural speedways in
the shape of dried-up lake-beds, which are
freely availed of by motor speedsters. One of
these is at .Dowerin, where a big programme
of car _ and motor-cycle events was run off
lately, including the State championship over
10 miles, for motor-cars. The performance
of the day was that of Eric Diffen, who
won the championship, the open handicap
and the six miles handicap for cars of 10
h.p. and under in his little Riley. F. Colli-
ver recorded the fastest time, winning his
heat of the championship in 7min. 17 2'-ssec.
He was unlucky that his Chrysler was unable
to start in the final owing to trouble with
the timing gear.
* * * *
“Sjvan”: The Westralian motor-cyclist
“Sig” Schlam lias been doing some remark-
able riding in Perth of late. The other day
at Claremont Speedway he cleaned up all
the principal events, scratch, handicap and
match, taking away £47 10s., or more than
a quarter of the prize money. He put up
a new Westralian record for three laps in
the scratch race, getting round in lmin.
14sec., an average of 57.2 m.p.h. Later, in
a handicap event, he slightly bettered this
performance by riding four laps in lmin.
45sec. For a dirt track these times are first-
class.
* * * *
“Kick Starter” : Fay Taylour, the English
motor-cyclist, who appeared with success
on most of the Australian tracks last
year, has had little luck in her visits to
Sydney. On her last tour the weather pre-
vented her showing. Riding at the Speed-
way Royal the other night her machine got
into an uncontrollable skid, and she came
an awful purler, the bike hopping the picket
fence on the outside of the track. Luckily
the rider was thrown inwards on to the
grass, and got off with a bad shaking and
a cut or two.
❖ * *
“Signals” : That Victorian relay by
cyclists (B. l/l/’3O) recalls a military
dispatch ride on the same lines from Adelaide
to Sydney, which was staged in 1912. The
affair was handled by 130 cyclists, 52 motor-
cyclists and 12 motor-car drivers. The
1150 miles route was divided into 65 sections
for the cyclists, two riders to each relay.
There were 26 sections for motor-cycles and
4 for the cars; the latter had to concede six
hours to the motor-cycles and 30 to the
push-bikers. Despite bad weather, the
cyclists came out on top, delivering their
message in 69 hours 32 minutes —18 minutes
ahead of the motor-cycles and 7 hours 12
A. J. WATSON, the Australian champion
hurdler, who has met with a knee injury
on the eve of the international athletic
gathering in Melbourne.
minutes better than the cars. The pedallers
averaged 16jj m.p.h., the motor-cyclists 22 1-5
m.p.h., and the cars 24 m.p.h. A repetition
with modern machines and on the improved
roads of to-day would be full of interest.
* * * #
“Onehunga”: Maoriland is not going to
take the Opperman invasion lying down.
In one of his first rides in M.L., the Vic-
torian pedalled 5 miles behind motor-pace
in Smin. 27sec. at Christchurch. At Western
Springs stadium a few days after A. Maekie
covered the distance in 7min. 32 3-ssec., and
the Maorilanders are claiming this for a
record. It probably is as far as the Shivery
Isles go, but not otherwise. Hubert Opper-
man holds the title to the fastest spin
south of the line with smin. 52 l-ssec. The
world’s best is smin. 18 2-ssec. by M. Bedell.
In races of this kind 60 p.c. of success
depends on the pacing motor-cycle driver.
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer” : Though Dr. Peltzer, the
world’s champion half-mile runner, duly cast
up in Australia last week, and Leo Lermond,
the American distance crack, also arrived
to schedule, the Australian athletic authori-
ties were staggered to find that 11. M. Osborn,
who holds the world’s high jump champion-
ship, had not left ximerica with Lermond as
was expected. Cables elicited the fact that
his wife’s illness had caused the jumper to
pull out of liis engagement. He notified the
American authorities, but these, being appa-
rently cast in the same mould as our own
Olympic Council, were too tired or too in-
different to notify their Australian confreres
* * * *
“Spike” : J. Carlton, the N.S.W. Olympic
representative and holder of an Australasian
sprint championship, seems to be back to his
old form. At the Highland Gathering in
Sydney on New Tear’s Day lie won his
heat off scratch in the 100 yards event in
lOsec. dead. In the final lie had to take
second place to R. S. Speed, who won off
yards in 10 l-ssec. On this form, Carl-
ton looks the best of good things for the two
sprint events at the Australian champion-
ships in Melbourne. Evens ought J:o be good
enough to take the 100, while the Kensington
runner has no equal in Australia over the
220, in which he has twice broken 22sec.
* * * *
“Downhaul”: The yacht race from Port
Phillip to Tasmania, revived after 22 years,
came close to ending in disaster. After the
five competitors had got well out, a typical
Bass Strait gale blew up, and the little armada
scattered in all directions. The _ first _to
reach Low Head, on the Tasmanian side,
was J. F. Bennell’s yawl Oimara, of the
Royal St. Ivilda club, after a gruelling
passage of 42 hours. Six hours later Sham-
rock limped in, but nothing was heard of
the others for some anxious hours. All cast
up, however, more or less damaged, the
worst off being the N.S.W. entry, Wanderer,
which was practically dismasted, but man-
aged to make shelter.
* * * *
“Derwent”: The new yacht to defend the
Foster Cup on Port Phillip in February
has been launched, and christened Tassie
Three. C. Lucas, who built the two previ-
ous Tassies, has slightly amended her
design, with the result that she will be
more or less a weather boat. With her
two elder sisters also appearing, Tasmania
will thus have boats suited to all kinds
of weather likely to be met with in Hob-
son’s Bay. Everything about the craft,
which is built of Pluon pine, comes from
Tasmania, and she was christened with a
bottle of Tassy cider to make all complete.
* * * *
“Topping Lift”: The Sayonara Cup race
between Victoria and N.S.W. can always
be relied on to cause a peck of trouble. This
year the selection of P. S. Arnott’s Vanessa
is the casus belli. Test matches were to have
held between Norn, Vanessa and Rawhiti
to decide on the, defender of the cup, but
the owners of Norn and Rawhiti insisted
on being allowed to choose their own skippers
and crew, if either of their craft was
selected. The selection committee turned
this down, and cancelled the test matches.
Vanessa, which won from Eun-na-Mara last
year, has not won a race this season, and
has twice been beaten by Norn off the same
handicap. .
* * *.i *
“Long Dog”: The latest development of
the hare-chasing industry is the training
of the greyhounds in Moore Park and
other Sydney open spaces. A live hare is
put down and given a few seconds start,
when the dogs are slipped. Apart from
the wanton cruelty of the performance, it
is a nuisance amounting to a danger to the
general public. Some time 'ago, when com-
plaints were made that the training gallops
of greyhounds in the parks had proved a
source of annoyance to many, the City Coun-
cil and others responsible for the policing
of the areas announced that the practice
would be suppressed. As the above instance
shows, it has developed even more unpleasant
aspects.
* * * *
“Kelly” ; A mighty athlete of other days
was Constable Heckenberg, who was enter-
tained by the Parramatta section of the
Police Association on his retirement from the
force after 25 years’ service at the old
N.S.W. town, and presented with the custom-
ary financial token of esteem. A familiar figure
to residents and visitors, the burly fellow'
had an Australia-wide reputation as a cham-
pion axeman, and cleaned up pretty well
every important woodchopping event in Aus-
tralia a generation or sq ago.
*’* * *
“Blue Chalk”: The present billiards
season in England is acclaimed the 1
most remarkable in the history of the game,
for, in addition to Walter Lindrum’s aston-
ishing scoring, McConaehy, Smith, Davis
and Newman have all made huge breaks.
The announcement that Lindrum would
meet Davis met with general satisfaction.
Davis is a great player of the dogged, safety-
first type, but he should need all his staying
power to make a close finish of it with
the wonderful Westralian: Up to Decem-
ber 31, Walter had scored over the 1000
27 times since he landed in Britain, and,
in addition to breaking the world’s record
for the highest- score, had put up new figures
for England and Scotland and for every
city in which he has appeared since he
reached Britain in October.
* * sH *
“Backwoodsman”: The next Australian
bowling tournament is set dowm for Launces-
ton, beginning on February 17. N.S.W.
trundlers are complaining that their chances
of taking part in the jamboree are one with
Buckley’s; their pennant competition will
clash.' An attempt to have the pennant
competition modified to permit leading
N.S.W. players to take part in the Aus-
tralian championships and other attractions
in the Speck has been acidly turned down,
so there is talk of direct action, especially
as the Canadian team will be competing in
Launceston.
* * * *
H. E. L. Taylor, the new president of
St. Peter’s Bowling Club in Adelaide, was
an enthusiastic follower of cricket and
tennis until he was converted to the “woods”
in 1915. He took to bowls as enthusiastic-
ally as to his earlier loves, and, as in their
case, soon became prominent as an official
and administrator. He was a vice-president
and a member of the general committee of
the club, as well as delegate to the State j
association, before his elevation to his pre-
sent proud eminence.
* * * *
“Gate”: As has been predicted, the
N.S.W. Rugby League, having failed to get
the Queensland League to listen to its plead-
ings, has resolved to throw its dear sister
to the demnition bow-wows and make what
terms it can with the remnant of the Bris
bane League which has not gone over to
the Union code. The reason for the betrayal
is that the B.R.L. controls most of. the im-
portant Brisbane grounds, and if the League
cannot fix up something and has to depend on
the Q.R.L., there will be no playing areas
capable of furnishing the “gates” its soul
desires. N.S.W. intends to recognise the
B.R.L. rump, help it to frame a new con-
stitution, appoint new officials, and assist
the resurrected carcase financially and
otherwise. If it is successful, the portion
of the Q.R.L. will, of course, be the axe.


Visitors to Adelaide
WILL FIND
THE GRAND
COFFEE PALACE
AN IDEAL HOME.
Centrally Situated.
ALL CONVENIENCES—EVERY
COMFORT ASSURED.
EXCELLENT CUISINE.
LARGE MOTOR GARAGE
ATTACHED.
TARIFF: £3/10/- WEEKLY.
HINDLEY STREET,
NEXT WEST’S THEATRE.
I
tbhjhbjhķ
Food
Reid. Tradk mark.
The way
of a mother
"After struggling to keep
to the breast only, I
decided to try Benger’s,
together with breast feed-
ing. The result was won-
derful. I carried on, giving
alternate feeds of Benger’s
and the breast. He
straightway became a con-
tented and happy baby,”
Write for booklet to; —BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
Monday to Friday,
A la Carte Dining and Supper
Service.
Minimum charge 7/6. Dancing till
1 a.m. Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY LATE GALA NIGHT.
Special Table d hote Dinner, 21 /*
Special Supper from 10 o clock,
12/6; or a la Carte, minimum, 12/6
Afternoon Tea Dansant —
Monday to Friday, 3.30 to 5.30, 2/6
Saturday, 4/-
’Phone M 4131 for your reservation.
Melbourne
Chatter.
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] C[?] 800[?] P[?]
Buckley [?], Limited.
South so M[?]
New Year’s Day weather was perfect, and
beach and hillside were crammed with pic-
nickers. But Nature was kinder than man
—or should it be horse? —at Flemington, for
favorites went down with montonous regu-
larity. The dressing was smart enough to
raise a suspicion that some of the glad
rags ordered for the Cup meeting, and hung
up by the inclement weather, were having
their first airing.
Rear-Admiral Munro Kerr, Judge and
Mrs. Drake Brockman and the Alan Currie
couple (she in ensemble of sapphire-blue
cloth, spotted crepe de Chine and fox fur)
were sighted early. Miss O’Shea, of Bris-
bane, was in a sports suit of mushroom-
brown kasha with matching felt hat; she
had as companion Kathleen St. John, with
a pale-green hat topping her figured black
satin frock. Mrs. Richard Linton had with
her Mrs. Murray Heffernan, of Sydney, and
Miss Grace Alexander Brown, of Maoriland,
the last in a crepe-satin frock and straw mil-
linery of nattier blue hue. A blue hat
massed with cornflowers topped the navy
blue and white ensemble suit worn by Mrs.
A. R. Lempriere. Beth Darvall, our very
own film star, wore beige georgette. Effie Ball
escorted around the clever impersonator Ann
Penn in attractive black and white uphol-
stery trimmed with wide Prussian braid.
Mrs. C. B. Moore’s chiffon gown mingled
several shades of blue; her daughter Doris
was in an embroidered French frock of
biscuit organdie. Mrs. W. Rogers Thomson
featured the latest idea in small hats com-
bining felt and corded ribbon of bottle-green
shade to match her crepe-de-Chine suit. Mrs.
Percy Blackbourn favored the same shade
of green. With Mrs. A. Y. Ivewney was
her sister-in-law Miss Kewney, from Eng-
land.
Phillip Island, the sanctuary for native
bears, seals and mutton-birds, is a favorite
holiday resort. Yearly the same families go
to the beaches around Cowes, and there is
a sort of happy community spirit between
private home, guest house and hotel. Golf
and tennis tournaments were social fixtures
of this Christmas season, and there was a
fancy-dress procession on the seashore on
New Year’s Eve, Avlien prizes were handed
over to competitors by Brigadier-General
Brand. The frequenters of this locality take
their recreation in less strenuous and hectic
fashion than those who favor more fashion-
able stretches of sand, where the sea-nymph
disports in the picturesque pyjamas arid
gigantic millinery that are the present mode
in beach wear.
Frankston’s golf house had a New Year’s
celebration —dinner, dancing and bridge—
which 200 attended. Mrs. E. R. Russell,
wife of the president, came to the jollo
in moire of duck-egg green hue; and Mrs.
Sam McKay rang changes on the same
color in her chiffon frock. Mrs. E. J. Hamil-
ton, whose husband is captain of the club,
wore white with a gleaming of silver. Mrs.
Alex. Cato, head of the ladies’ committe,
wore goblin-blue raiment splashed with
gilded embroidery.
Christmas cards sent out by medical-
knight James Barrett and his wife were in
most cases accompanied by an invitation to
a Sunday afternoon tea at Palmyra to say
farewell to American Consul Garrels and
his wife, who are to go to Tokio. The gath-
ering was under the flag of the Royal Empire
Society (late Royal Colonial Institute).
The Barrett lady’s gown of black lace
was brightened with embroidery of gold and
crimson, and Mrs. Garrels wore a shady
beige-toned hat with a floral-patterned blue
ninon frock. Over the tea-pouring regrets
at the departure of Mr. and Mrs. Garrels
were expressed by the host. Mrs. B. Henry
Marks, of Fiji, youngest daughter of the
Barretts, is visiting them just now, and she
lent a hand with the entertaining, wearing
blue-and-white figured silk. Mr. and Mrs.
Noel Barrett, temporarily transplanted
from their pasture lands in N. S. Wlales,
were also guests. Gorgeous flowers deco-
rated reception- and dining-rooms, and the
garden was looking its best. Palmyra is one
of the very few Australian homes that boasts
a private but officially-recognised sanctuary
for native-bears.
Graeeliill, the Frankston home of the
Edmund Collins couple, staged a New Year’s
Eve party at the smart seaside resort. The
hostess was wrapped about in crepe satin
of reseda-green shade; her daughter Normo
chose also green of paler hue in chiffon,
while georgette of lapis-lazuli color fell in
odd lengths about Cynthia. Mr. and Mrs.
Norman Brookes and their three flapper
daughters, the Harold Clapps, thfe E. M.
Pearces, Mrs. Farrar and Lorna Embling
were among the throng.
Mrs. Frank Apperly and her children got
back from Blighty the other day, and, with
Dr. Apperly, are residing for a few weeks
at Lisson Grove, Hawthorn.
May Beattie, now quite acclimatised as
a resident of Hollywood, has been caught
in the movie maelstrom, and will be seen
and heard in the role of a German lady of
title in a talkie called “Mamba.” Her little
daughter Bunny, a solo dancer, is also
making a debut in the flickers.
Judith Ann Silburn, an Englishwoman
who has come here to see what opportuni-
ties are offering for migrants, has acquired
a belief that Australia needs and can absorb
newcomers of the British middle or working
classes, but women in touch with migration
organisations here are not very enthusiastic
about the immediate prospects.
After several attempts to put silent Aus-
tralian pictures before unwilling manage-
ments, Gerald Hayle is starting this week
to make a talkie. Beth Darvall and a com-
pany of local players have been engaged for
the venture.
When Frank Luxton, now here on a visit,
decided to settle in England many years
back, he filched from our Repertory ranks
one of its best players, liis wife, known
on the boards as Maude Joliffe. Mrs. Lux-
ton was unable to make the trip home with
her husband, being occupied with her daugh-
ter Joan’s Theatre for Children in Endell-
street, London. It is known as the Joan
Luxton Playhouse, although its enterprising
manageress is now Mrs. Lawson. Frank
Luxton’s stay in Australia —his main object
is to see his mother, Mrs. Thomas Luxton —
will be brief. His sister Mrs. Sullivan
arrived from Sydney recently accompanied
by her daughter Sheila to complete the
family circle, and a dinner party which
included Lud Mayor Luxton and his wife
celebrated the re-union.
Mollie Anthony, who is abroad on a tour
where the doings will include a curtsey to
Royalty, is planning to return early this
year. Dad, on his Stawell squattage, finds
housekeeping a lonely business without his
only daughter and is anxious to welcome
her back. Writing to a friend by last mail,
Miss Anthony says long locks and long
frocks are every girl’s wear in London. The
most sensational of new fashions is the
painting of finger-nails scarlet, pink, blue
or green, to match one’s shoes.
If Archbishop Head’s flock like their shep-
herd as well as he is prepared to like his new
charge his popularity is assured. Here is
his Grace, and the picture suggests that he
is well pleased at the prospect of occupying
Bishopseourt. His wife is not yet with him ;
the. Archbishop returns to England for the
Lambeth Conference, and she will accom-
pany him back here. The newly-arrived
prelate was senior chaplain to the Guards
Division in France during the war, and
has already made friends with the Dig-
gers. The Senior Service should find him
equally congenial; at the annual dinner to
seamen on New Year’s Day his Grace
admitted that his ambitions as a boy were
all in the direction of joining the Navy.
Luna Park, Melbourne’s usually-busy con-
catenation of side-shows, has been a sufferer
through the unseasonably cold and cheerless
weather experienced this season, but it’s a
wonderful place to take children to —if you
have a good store of sixpences. The switch-
back railway is but one of several nerve-
shaking delights. Most of the entertain-
ments are quivery and quakery. There are
stairways that rock and sway; and dark
passages that lead into a building, the
floor of which lurches drunkenly. In strik-
ing contrast is the glide through the “river
caves.” Along a regular maze of water-
ways apparently unguided little boats travel
through a series of inky tunnels, emerging to
glimpse pleasant landscapes, groupings of
pretty figures, fish and comical animals
flooded in colored light.
On her arrival at Hollywood, Betty Ross
Clarke and her husband, Arthur Collins,
dropped into pleasant quarters. Jessamine
Newcombe, who visited here with “Cradle
Snatchers,” was looking for tenants for
her home while she sailed to England, and
the new arrivals just filled the bill. When
the latest mail left Mrs. Clarke had made
a successful appearance in a stage play,
“Limited Control,” with Robert Fraser, but
this year she intends to return to the movies,
and has contracted to play in a talkie.
A Melbournite lately returned from Lon-
don says you can buy almost anything there
nowadays from a coin-in-the-slot machine.
Around Piccadilly railway station anything
from a handkerchief to a meal can be coaxed
from automatic containers.
“The Dam-
ask Rose,” in
which Wilma
Berkeley
takes thelead-
ing role,
should be
about due for
production at
the new Savoy
Theatre in !
London, after
a trial season
.i n Birming-
ham. Leonard
FI emming,
successful
author and
Rhodesian
settler, was
married to the
Austral ian
songbird i n
London on
September 30.
Here are the happy couple smiling a greeting.
From London comes word of Gertrude
Johnson’s engagement to Dr. Strecher, a
noted nerve and brain specialist. Gertie is
a Melbourne girl who went overseas in
search of fame and found it. Her voice is
declared to be one of the best record-makers
in the U.K. She will settle in London.
Phyllis Holmes Hunt came back from her
across-the-seas jaunt merely to get a trous-
seau together. Her engagement to Wilfred
Tennent Hunter, of Calcutta, caused a flut-
ter of excitement in social circles; the wed-
ding takes place in Calcutta next month. A
daughter of the P. C. Holmes. Hunts, of
Wallace-avenue, Toorak, she is a most
vivacious brunette, who has shown talent
in her appearances in amateur shows for
charity.
Ida Fink, who has spent the last . few
years in London, recently reappeared in a
bridal role; her bridegroom, who has been
educated overseas, is the son of Ernest
Brookes by his first marriage. The Ranee
of Pudukota staged a select reception in
honor of the event. Ida went from
Melbourne to America after the war, but
when the Pudukota manage was established
in Europe she crossed the Atlantic to be
near her sister.
The Harry Creswick couple, with their
two daughters and son, got back from their
nine months’ saunter over Great Britain
and the Continent in time to toast the New
Year. They are in their Toorak home again.
Mr. Pat O’Shea and his sister Miss Ellie
O’Shea, with Hardy Eustace, of the Ford
company, and Kathleen St. John as their
guests, motored over from Brisbane for a
couple of weeks and stayed at Menzies’. They
were to start on the return trip yesterday.
Jennie Brenan set out by the Orontes on
Christmas Eve for Europe, following her
usual custom, which is to make a flying trip
abroad during the holidays to pick up the
latest dance-notions.
Returned by the Mooltan after nearly a
year’s absence, Phyllis Holmes Hunt and
Wilma, daughter of Mrs. W. J. T. Clarke.
Both girls are residents of Toorak.
The Australian Federation of University
Women will hold its annual conference in
Hobart this year, the opening date being the
20tli. Judging from the programme of enter-
tainment the delegates will have plenty
of pleasure to combine with their culture.
There will be a Government House recep-
tion, wdth tea-drinkings and evening chat-
tings at the Lyceum Club, as well as motor
tours.
Vida Goldstein, whose name was familiar
to electors in the century’s earlier years, is
returning this week from an overseas jaunt.
Miss Goldstein is the founder of the Women’s
Political Association, and although she never
achieved her ambition of a seat in Parlia-
ment, she is a woman of many talents and
a speaker of real charm.
Mrs. W. R. Bailey, once Verna John-
stone, is finding flying a fascinating pastime.
She and her captain soar aloft in their Baby
Moth whenever conditions permit. Being
one of our most gilded heiresses, she can
afford to pursue her hobby both here and in
the English home where she has lately settled.
The Baileys are visiting Mr. and Mrs. W.
Cameron at Macedon. Business connected
with a large estate brought Verna across
the ocean with her lately-acquired husband.
Mrs. Norman Brookes and Mrs. W. M.
Robins are honorary organisers of the car-
nival at Alexandra Gardens in March . for
the Queen Victoria Hospital. The takings
will go toward the furnishing of the new
kitchen wing.
A surprise turn at the Tivoli on Saturday
afternoon was provided by a star whose
years couldn’t have numbered more than
three. She was a plump toddler who warbled
tunefully and clearly of “Bwoadway,” and
was sanely dressed in a simple white frock
and white shoes and socks. The mite fol-
lowed this with something on the lines of
a syncopated step-dance, winding up with a
perfect Pavlova curtsey and a scattered kiss
or two. Fearfully this Page waited for
Myrtle to tumble over, but the chubby legs,
though wobbly, inanaged to keep the per-
pendicular. Though one agreed with George
Wallace that the tot was the cleverest as
well as the youngest artist in Melbourne, it
is to be hoped that mother will keep her off
the boards for a few years.
The J.C.W. firm’s latest presentation
might aptly be termed “Giving Up” ; unadver-
tised, it was sprung on us as a most un-
welcome New Year offering. The gist of it
is that the Theatre Royal is in the market,
that the rumored costly rebuilding, of His
Majesty’s is off, and that the firm is about
to throw in the sponge so far as legitimate
theatrical fare is concerned. Melbourne with
no theatres except the King’s, Comedy
Bijou and Tivoli will be a dull place indeed.
It only requires the carrying of. Prohibition
to fill the cup of anguish.
Some of the bedtime stories read these
days to Princess Elizabeth are from “The
Meeting Pool,” by Mervyn Skipper, of The
Bulletin’s Melbourne staff. At any. rate,
it is recorded that these delightful jungle
stories of Borneo were among the Christmas
purchases made by the Duchess of York
for Elizabeth from a London bookseller.
A Bananaland solicitor who is visiting
Melbourne has started a crusade against the
hawking of chocolates and ice-creams around
the picture-shows. In a leading talkie house
the other night he received a scalp wound
from the edge of a heavily-laden tray, and
the vendor had a narrow shave of becoming
a member of the orchestra in the heavenly
band. Restrained by his companions from
direct action, the lawyer relieved his feelings
by penning a torrid note to the management.
One suggestion was that dillybags might be
substituted for trays if managements insisted
on thinking only of financial gain and cared
nothing for the discomfort and danger to
patrons.
Organisations dealing with girls are im-
pressed by their growing desire for indepen-
dence. Girls no longer think of marriage
as the first consideration. They are more
and more inclined to sidetrack it for later
deliberation. Travel is the objective that
appeals to many; they want to see the world
before settling down. The head of one
association mentions that she is constantly
being asked for letters of introduction to
people overseas for girls who have saved
enough for the adventure. The movies are
largely responsible for this wanderlust
—and for certain other ambitions. A
questionnaire recently sent out disclosed that
many girls cherish dreams of becoming
stars, and though there are more employed
in clothing factories and at domestic jobs
than at anything else in this State, there
seems to be a general desire for posts that
go with clean hands and smart clothes. It s
a poor outlook for the homes of the future.
The family was discussing a night at the
talkies, but nobody could decide which
theatre had the best programme. Suddenly
Mother exclaimed : “We’ll ask Anne; she was
at the pictures last night.” Just then Anne
came in—a discreet, middle-aged woman, un-
powdered, unbobbed, not overburdened as to
skirt. “Was the talkie you went to see last
night any good, Anne?” asked Mother.
“Well, really, Ma’am, I couldn’t pay any
attention to the picture—the man next to
me kept playing with my leg!” “Ooh !” said
Mother weakly. “But,” continued Anne,
“when the lights went up I got a bit of
my own back. I pushes my face into his
and says, ‘Well, young fellow, my lad, dis-
appointed, ain’t you? Next time you’d better
find out first what the legs is carrying!
And Anne removed the meat , plates.
From a heavy daily’s review of 1930:
Women have followed proposed reforms very closely
this year.
Yes, indeed! This new waist-line is quite
a problem.


• # « •'7
4TO'W:
isiwip
»
%
, 4 * ;
r
' Z
:? '*».
lliSm «»
mmm
I i
■
MH
: ;:.
*
ft
5......
m
'ft,
:
■■
»
■
H
I
i
IbII
m
i
z
i
: ' '
■
Hi
#**
Z
• O
Plz
K
#4 !
■
1
§Kt !
it
k
I
7^
ilii
m
A
*
ZZ
77 7".-
■
V-
€
*.
■H
«■
■
‘x.
%
m
m
■
I n
%
I *
iff
i„v . '• -> **♦
pa«
* .#..♦ ft • * ##
HOSIERY OF INCOMPARABLE QUALITY
v * ■■ y
/ «•' J ' s "• \
C
k
i ihi i i
S V JV
1 MW... t
f j ?<P '-W.v \
IV* / Ht <>h \ nmJ 1
pyjf yy : »
..*••••• J |
/ ■■»&& '";• ! "fTiTr'iT' pi',,., \
-*!ls f !l :Hi!- ' I|,i' ' J i JK*
V w Vlb ; j // ' 7
\ f
J] HflyfftCf- -
•‘(I. , •l|>'
*f I, 1 \a>
, / ji’ ij ,


Under'
Royal
.Warrant
Vintage 1920
Tom
Kin 6
George V
CH AIVIPAGINIE
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Li mitad
SYDNEY.
Champagne
Q*arleslicidsiecv
REIMS
l * TU ** wie,,s *"
PELLI3SON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrer,i»—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should
know —from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY Price 3d.
<r
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
52 Macle&y St
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT, SYDNEY
(Located within the City Boundary, ten
minutes from G.P.0 .)
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 160 rooms, is now open, and
features Single Rooms, Double
Rooms with Bath, and two-, three-
and four-room Suites with Bath.
Central Heating, Hot and Cold
Water, 'Phone and Bedside Lamp
in each room. Unsurpassed
Harbor views.
Telephone: F 2161 (8 lines).
Telegraphic Address: ‘'Fifmac,”
Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Have you
ordered
Kraft Cheese?
Having been brought up in a Scots com-
munity, this Letter would feel guilty of a
grave sin of omission if it didn’t put on a
pair of tartan jazz-garters and take tram
for the Show Ground every New Year’s
morn. This year the garters had to be
made of the Macdonald tartan —the chosen
for the 62nd Highland gathering. Being
one of those occasions when every man is
proud ©f having a drop of Scotch in him,
the whisky advertisements wore the smug air
of those whose counsel has been followed,
and Macdonalds and Campbells and Cam-
erons strode kings once more on their native
heath. Some swung by in the full kilt,
others were content with a thistle
brooch or a wee bit heather in the
coat. The clans foregathered under 15
different banners for a first hand-
shake, and after that the whole ground was
their kingdom. One child, Hazel Hunt,
came with the 300 medals of which she is
the proud winner. Men with great rippling
muscles tossed the caber and putt the stone,
and through all ran the haunting skirl of
the pipes laden with the memory of far-off
things.
There’s something Thackerayisli about
Sibella Macarthur Onslow, who was remem-
bered to the extent of a C.B.E. on New
Year’s Day. Miss Macarthur Onslow (nobody
outside the family circle dares the intimacy
of the Sibella) is probably mistress of more
inherited acres than any other unmarried
woman in N. S: Wales. There’s something
solid and sincere about the tall, big-framed,
unrouged lady of Camden Park. Grey and
beige and black are her wear on most occa-
sions, and she knows far more about horti-
culture, sheep and dairy cows than she does
about the morass that passes for modernism.
She’s a sticker, too. In 1914 she became a
keen worker for the Red Cross; in 1930 she
is still as keen, and is the president of the
Camden branch. She is Anglican, and looks
it, and what she has done and continues to do
for the Australian Board of Missions is known
only to the harassed workers for good in
far places. Socially, too, the light of Sibella
Macarthur Onlow, C.8.E., shines before her
fellows. She makes an admirable hostess,
not only to Royalty (the Duke and Duchess
of York paid Camden Park a week-end visit),
but to the varied assemblages that gather
under the Victoria League banner when, as
often happens, she takes the place of the
president, the wife of ex-Chief Justice Cullen.
She was also for a time president of the
Queen’s Club—and being president of a
woman’s club is a job that calls for the tact
of all the world.
The Ormonde dropped Chief Justice Philip
Street and his lady on the harbor doorstep
last week. They both look well after their
11 months’ absence. And, Heaven help him,
he’d need to be well in these contentious
days !
One advantage 'of being skipper of a war-
boat is that you can use it as a ballroom
whenever the spirit moves you. Last week
Captain Massey, of the Canberra, took ad-
vantage of his privilege for the last time in
Port Jackson, and the Canberra, garnished
with bunting and electrics, received the
social guns of Sydney on its decks. The
first part of the evening was absorbed by a
film of the Emden-Sydney combat, in which
the part of Captain Glossop, of the Sydney,
is played by Captain Massey. This gave the
gallant Massey and his dinner-guests, among
whom were Admiral Evans and his Juno-
esque lady, a chance to digest their meal.
Then came the inevitable dance. Mostly
sailormen partnered the fair, for the dance
was primarily a farewell to Navy friends.
Bertie Kelly, son Tom and Graham de
Chair were notable among the men dancers;
and Mrs. George Vivers, in a frock of float-
ing chiffons that ran from palest yellow
to orange tones and suggested banners of
Spain, and Mrs. Evans, in ivory taffeta
gemmy with diamcnte, divided the honors
among the women. Joan Badgery, from
Scone, in jacaranda blues, long and fluttery,
was an attraction ; Kathleen Robinson wore
cobwebby grey with distinction; Shirley
Dent and Cynthia Hawkes were upstanding
attractions in flowered flimsiness. Mrs.
W. PI. Mackay, in red taffetas as spreading
as a Cardinal’s robe, swept the deck, and
Mrs. Chisholm, who as Midge sells frocks
to those that neither toil nor spin, was
smart and Aubrey Beardsleyish in slinky
black laces. Mrs. Stuart Doyle and Mrs.
Fordyce Wheeler were among the handsomely
frocked, the first in floral chiffon, the second
in black lace accompanied by pearls.
There was a full house at 8 Young-street
to see the T.O.Y. people do Patrick
Chalmers’s “Little Pagan Faun.” This is
a charming thing, and the whole 130 (that’s
what the theatre holds) clapped long and
loud when the brown and orange hessian
curtains were finally drawn together. Lady
de Chair was among the front-scaters, and
the genial Budges and Mrs. George Vivers
waving an emerald-green feather fan. Audi-
ences at the T.O.Y. are very well-dressed;
one can’t imagine an audience to which the
really nice people in the programme are
introduced going without clean teeth, a
shampoo, a scented bath, a manicure, a
pedicure and a fresh hanky. There is no-
thing very robust in the bill-of-fare, but,
then, the theatre states it is for the young.
Joan Raynor is a gifted entertainer. One
suspects she is the paste that keeps the show
stuck fast; guileful enough, too, to know
that an audience likes to take a hand in the
game, so at every performance she leads a
song, the audience being her choir. The
night this Letter went “Good King Wen-
eeslas” was sung with great heartiness by
the whole house.
On a full tide of choral music and a record
surf of tulle, Eve Carruthers was launched
in matrimony at St. Mark’s last week. Eve
is the second daughter of knight Joseph
Carruthers, of Woollahra; her bridegroom,
Lieut.-Commander Paul Ilugill Hirst, of
11.M.A.5. Success, and before that of Laun-
ceston. Her satin frock, cut on mediaeval
lines, was girt about with pearls and rhine-
stones, misted over by the usual tulle, and
ran off into a train attended by three ’maids
and one matron-of-lionor. Bride’s sisters
Alice and Peggy Carruthers, ’groom’s sister
Phyllis and Mrs. Donald Austen were daffo-
dils in the procession. Their frocks were of
silk lace whoso tulle hems swept to their
heels ; their hats were of daffodil Baku, and
they carried sheaves of golden gladioli. The
best man and groomsmen were all navy
blue and brass-bound, so the wedding, as
you can see, was very dashing. The Car-
ruthers lady took the spotlight later at the
Ambassadors, where, in diaphanous raiment,
she with her husband did the honors to a
great crowd of congratulators. The Apple
Isle grows the honeymoon.
The genial-looking lady in this Hollywood
picture is Mrs. J. H. Hammond, president
of the very important Girls’ Secondary
Schools Club. This originated about four
years ago, mainly through the suggestion of
Leonie Bond. At first the idea was just
a club for ex-Presbyterian Ladies’ College
girls—like the old P.L.C. girls in Melbourne
have. But it
was feared
that not
enough sup-
port could be
given by the
old pupils of
one school, and
it was decided
to ask the
others to co-
operate. Now
there are 28
affiliated
schools, and
the member-
ship is going
on for 700.
In all this
success Mrs.
Hammond has
played an im-
portant part.
She was a
foundation
member and one of the first vice-presidents.
The club is everything hut residential. It
has very well-equipped bathrooms and dress-
ing-rooms. It has an attractive assembly
hall where the club’s concerts and entertain-
ments take place. The dining-room makes
eating a pleasure even on hot days, and
affiliation with the Lawn Tennis Associa-
tion throws the advantage of the White City
courts open to the members. The very com-
petent president’s husband is Acting-Justice
Hammond.
Knight Mark Sheldon was up early yester-
day morning to take daughter Millie to
the altar of St. Mary’s, where Marcus Rex,
of the Malay States, claimed her. The
Nuptial Mass was at 8.30, and was
said, not at the big central altar, but at the
beautiful white-and-gold one given to St.
Mary’s by Tom Dalton —Millie was one of
the lesser heiresses of the Sheldon family
when Uncle Tom died. Her raiment was of
rich white moire shot with gold, cut in
mediaeval style. The veil was an amber
cloud of tulle floating over the veil worn by
mother at her wedding. A filet of gold
leaves bound it to the hack of the
head, and other gold leaves entwined
with orange buds bloomed on one side of
the tulle train. Nobody but the Sheldons
and the Daltons were at the wedding break-
fast, though most social Sydney dropped in
to the reception at Trahlee between four
and seven the day before.
St. Stephen’s added another bride to its
well-stocked catalogue a few days ago. She
was Netta Gillespie, of Cremorne, who be-
came Mrs. Stewart McKee, of Mosman,
within the Phillip-street fortress. Ivory
georgette, whose flounces dripped away to
the bride’s heels, and a great sheaf of white
gladioli, clustered at the base with pink rose-
buds, were notable features of the glad rai-
ment, and clouds of pink and white tulle
seemed to promise a rosy dawn for the matri-
monial venture. Jean McKee and Kitty
Wyatt, a flutter of blue and gold chiffons,
stepped in the procession. Bride’s mother
and father spread the savories at the Mary
Elizabeth.
Valerie Britten and Noel Lloyd were an-
other pair who sought matrimony hy the
grace of St. Stephen last week. But their
saint is domiciled at Bellevue Hill. Thistle-
down wear of white Chantilly and tulle
floated about the bride, and only sister Isabel
’maided in palest of pink ninons and a pink
hat banded in silver. Later the F. S. Brit-
tens did the handsome thing by their daugh-
ter at the International at Bondi.
Here comes another Lindsay! This one
is Peter,’ son of Percy, the best landscape-
painter in the celebrated brotherhood. Peter,
who is 17, lias
his first draw-
ing in The
Bulletin this
week, and dad
saw to it that
none were sub-
mitted till the
young m a n
was ready.
What a com-
p a n y of
artists these
Lindsays do
make! Be-
sides Peter's
father, there
are uncles
Norman and
Daryl (who is
to illustrate
Vance Palm-
er’s “Men Are
Human”) and
Lionel, cousins
Jack, Ray and Phil (sons of Norman), and
uncle-by-marriage Will Dyson’s girl, whose
mother, Ruby Lindsay, too early dead, did
some of the most graceful work this paper
ever published, (Sh! A beautiful unpublished
drawing of hers was lately found misplaced
in a Bulletin file, and you’ll get it pre-
sently. )
When the guests arrived at the Killara
home of the Forsyths to congratulate Noel
Mclntosh and his new bride, they wondered
why they had arrived before the pair who’d
got such a good start from the chapel of
“Shore.” A proud father, H. E. Mclntosh,
let them into the secret at dinner; the little
bride’s first request to her husband was
made as they were leaving the chapel. “I’d
like to go and see your grandmother!” So
the ’groom and his bride, in her billowing
pink tulle, made a detour at Roseville, and
Noel’s four-score-and-five granny was the
first to wish them joy. The bride is John
Forsyth’s elder daughter.
Clive Farquhar took a bride back to Fiji
last week by the Moeraki. Joyce Artlett,
of Parramatta, she was till she came from
the .Chapel of King’s School on the second
day of the year. Tulle, ivory satin, orange
blossom and roses marked the bride’s pass-
ing on the arm of stepfather Dr. W. S.
Brown. A memory of old Sydney was intro-
duced by the ’groom, who is a son of the
Farquhars that were one time of Grantham,
Potts Point. The bride drew four skyey-
blue ’maids, two big and two little ones, in
her wake; and later her mother did the
honors at Willengulla, the Keith Dockers’
home at Strathfield, loaned for the occasion.
St. James’s was massed with blue hydrangea
to welcome Aura Skinner, a dazzling blonde
bride, gowned and veiled in the blues beloved
of the old Italian masters when they painted
Madonnas and by the young Australian
masters when they chase the morning sky.
Her maids, too, were in blue, and the decora-
tions at the reception in the Kindergarten
Union’s tea-rooms were of the same melting
shade. Frank Lawson, of Springwood, having
duly wed Aura, left the rest to Mrs. W.
Skinner.
Joan Quinan, looking very slim in her
cream satin, became Mrs. Colin Campbell
Galbraith in All Saints’, Woollahra, on
Saturday night. Following the frothy tulle
and moire train stepped bride’s sister Pat-
ricia and Beth Myers in swaying green chif-
fons topped by jaunty hats that would have
warmed the cockles of Napper Tandy’s heart.
Canon Langley and a full choir-burst did
the thing handsomely, and the reception was
a glad affair at the home of the bride’s
parents, the Claude Quinans, of Centennial
Park.
A brunette bride who swept into the
Methodist Church at Nowra a few days
ago was Minnie, great-grand-daughter of
King Billy Timberry, of the Five Islands.
Last week she became Mrs. David Carpenter,
of the Wallaga Lake Settlement. The Rev-
erend Mills blessed them.
Judge Mocatta has cast the eye of appro-
val over daughter Lucy’s choice. Geoffrey
Gavey a young man of law in Allen, Allen
and liemsiey s company of Daniels, and a
wedding ring is in the making
the ßr n I l i fnfed aVl^ to V? rain ’ who discovered
« • r " • te il. with its human
nr, wfi S ll A ho centre Australia, and lateJ
on located Owen and Moir a t Cape Don, has
&«?? sometlu ng besides wings. Attrac-
tive Constance Brownhill, of Strathfield, has
f led both his eye and liis fancy for some
an d last week the two decided on
wedding bells in the near future. Tennis
* ii U^ n - g a S e „ her s Ports, and she hopes
to add flying before long.
k>y _ the time this Letter is in your hand
the picnic races at Tirrann a will be in full
swing, lhe State Excellencies are expected
to dash back and forth between Sutton
h orest and the willow-shaded course, and the
better, fl les on the wheel will flutter their
little hour m the social sun. Gold all the
way is the scheme of decoration for the ball
, a heartening sight for those who lost at
the day s meeting.
The Voice that Breathed will be a little
bit hoarse before the end of February, judg-
iag ky tke procession of weldings listed at
ail the fashionable .smithies. But think how
the after-Christmas slackness of trade will
he cheered up by the purchase of the inevit-
able electro-plate and crystal!
Maoriland friends— and he has them in
legion will drain a glass over the new
appointment which makes T. S. Gordon
managing director of Birt and Co., the
shipping house at No. 4 Bridge-street. The
slim, quick-spoken, tense and somewhat shy
new head of Birts had a strong likeness to
the pictures left us of Philip Sydney, but a
good deal of this is lost now that all
the winds of Wellington seem to have
gone raging above his brow. In his
beginning days “Tommy” wanted above
everything to be a writer. He summoned up
courage one day and sent a nautical yarn
to The Bulletin, but the reply ‘dis-
heartened him so much he decided to stick
to shipping.
Now that skirts are to be more extensive
and bodices (at any rate for evening) quite
tight, and waists the thing for day as well
as night wear, the figure so long untram-
melled begins to urge its owner corsetwards,
Most of us grumble: “But I’ve never worn
a corset—l couldn’t possibly start now!”
All the same, we discover ourselves in the
corsetiere’s hands. Thereupon this is what
you hear: “But, Madame, your hips are out
of proportion to your bust. Tch, tch! —
wicked to have let them develop so when
a good corset could have kept them down
flat!” All this time the lady is slipping a
garment—long enough (you groan inwardly)
for a giantess—over your head. She is now
clamping it around your form with sundry
little determined pushes at your anatomy.
“Fat,” she remarks pleasantly, “can be put
anywhere you please!” “Tch, tch!” she
suddenly complains again, “your waist is
very small—you have quite a sway-back
figure.” “Dear me!” you get your breath
to murmur, as you look with sudden fright
into the mirror for this until now unsus-
pected deformity, “I can’t see anything
wrong with my waist.” “It’s the Venus
line,” snaps the corsetiere, frowning at the
garment, which is standing out like a fence
an. inch or so above the hips, “and that’s
quite out-of-date. “Oh Madame,” she im-
plores, “why won’t you wear a strong corset
and a brassiere always? I assure you you
could develop a waist of thirty-two inches
and reduce your hips to twenty-five. Think
how your little French models would look
on you then!”
While she talks she pulls off the garment
and has girded you into something as pliable
as bridge steel. This new armor is a longer
contraption that starts under the arms and
goes down to the knees, or so it seems to
you. You feel as though you can never sit,
dance, play golf or run for a tram again.
You feel that you are indeed a virtuous
woman. You think of all the martyrs of
Spain and Merrie England. You think of
the Inquisition. Somebody is saying, “And
where shall we send it, Madame ?” A
courage beyond and above you speaks—that
voice broken with the rack and the thumb-
screw is not your own. It is saying: “Buff
I’m not buying this till after the hot
weather —a suspender belt will do for the
present.” You know you’re a coward. Your
hips are too big, your waist is too small,
You’re convicted of a back line such as
Venus wore. You know your new evening
frock is going to look all wrong and it’s
the fault of your own figure. Yet you grasp
the suspender belt a junior hands you with
almost undisguised contempt. Then you
stagger out into the daylight a disgraced
but reprieved woman.
OVERHEARD.
Heated Wife ( coming out of shop) : “It’s taken
me a whole hour to find one ready-made.”
Good-looking Bored Husband: “Bad hunting,
my dear! I’ve seen no other sort the whole hour
I’ve been waiting.’’


tbhjhbjhķ
LEIPZIG SPRING FAIR (GERMANY).
Incorporating Great Engineering and Building Fairs.
BEGINS MARCH 2nd, 1930.
BUYERS GOING ABROAD must visit the Leipzig Trade Fair, the
world’s largest Manufacturing, Industrial pad Engineering Exposition.
Introductions arranged.. Full information free on request to —
A
Authorised Representatives: C. N. KEPPEL, c/o Marcard Lund & Co., Box 585 D G.P.0., Melbourne.
LARS G. BRUNDAHL, 6 Dailey Street. Box 3127 P G.P.0.. Sydney.
Accommodation
160.
Central,
Comfortable,
Convenient,
d Mts. G.P.O.
Excellent
Cuisine
Billiards,
Dancing.
ORIENTAL HOTEL
(No License)
KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET.
TARIFF:
Weekly,
£3/3/- to
£4/4/-
Daily,
11/6 to 12/6.
Room & B’fast,
8/6 to 9/6
FL2034
F 3575
Amusements.
g YDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tnit.
HER MAJESTY’S: THE NEW MOON.
CRITERION: JOURNEY’S END.
PALACE: IN THE NEXT ROOM.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
TURNED UP.
With GUS BLUETT, LEO FRANKLYN,
CECIL KELLAWAY.
MEW COMEDY THEATRE,
LEON GORDON in
MURDER ON THE SECOND FLOOR.
With ADA REEVE.
UOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
* X MELBOURNE.
REGINALD DENNY in
ONE HYSTERICAL NIGHT.
A UNIVERSAL TALKING PICTURE.
ALSO
WILLIAM BOYD as
THE FLYING FOOL.
A P.D.C. TALKING PICTURE.
INVINCIBLE
feSl
EVINCIBLE MARINE MOTORS
The Worlds Hest since 1906
TEN POPULAR MODELS
AN ENGINE
FOR EVERY TYPE OF BOAT
CiU spare parts always available '
INVINCIBLE MOTORS UNITED
53 North George Sir. SYDNEY.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Australia and the British
Commonwealth
By the Hon. J. G. LATHAM,
K.C., M.A., LL.B., Attorney-
General of the Commonwealth of
Australia. With a foreword by
the Rt. Hon. S. M. BRUCE. 7s.
6d. net.
Sir George Parkin
A Biography.
By SIR JOHN WILLISON, LL.D.
With portraits. 12s. 6d. net.
Times Literary Supplement : “A worthy
record of an exceptionally interesting man and
a career of remarkably varied achievement.”
The Garden of Fidelity
Being the autobiography of
FLORA ANNIE STEEL. With
portraits. 12s. 6d. net.
The Times : “Her biography is exceptionally
well worth reading.”
NEW NOVELS.
Hans Frost
By HUGH WALPOLE.
[Dominions Edition.
Fortnightly Review : “In the creation of
people Mr. Walpole has no living peer.”
A Selection by the Book Society.
Whiteoaks
By MAZO f DE LA ROCHE,
author of “Jalna,” the famous
novel which won the “Atlantic
Monthly” prize of 10,000
dollars. [Empire Library.
Hugh Walpole : “We have here a splendid
work, something with the firmness and solidity
of enduring patience and magnificent technique;
something also with a never-slackening creative
power.”
The Wasted Island
By EIMAR O’DUFFY, author of
“King Goshawk and the Birds,”
etc. [Empire Library.
A story of Irish life some 15 years ago.
Extensively revised for this edition.
To be Obtained from a/l
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
If any Illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
I—IIBIIBIPMMI
HM
mm
'M
m
m
NOW NEATLY CASED- at same price!
A strongly-made grained-leather case is now provided with every Plum
Razor, at no increase in cost. With its blade set to perfection—guaran-
teed and kept in order for two years free—the Plum Razor shaves cleanly,
easily, quickly——leaves the most delicate skin smooth and comfortable.
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 „
Real Ivory Handle . 21/- „
Satin-lined double case free with pair..
7-day Sets—7 Razors in Case.
Black, 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory, 140/-
Post free to any address.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
FPLI
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANNE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
A cool wind tempered the week’s heat for the
Q.T.C.’.s meeting at Ascot. Lady Goodwin wore
rose and grey chiffon ; Premier Moore’s lady
was in rose and black crepe de Chine; Mrs.
Campbell in almond-green; Miss Talbot in
orange and gold; Mrs. Tully in cornflower-
blue and white crepe de Chine; Mrs. Cadell
in biscuit; Mrs. M. L. Reading in
grey crepe de Chine ; Mrs. J. Lipscombe in
almond green; Mrs. G. H. Turner in gold
and bronze ; Eileen Moore in petal-pink ; and
Mrs. George Addison in biscuit and bronze.
In St. Andrew’s kirk Captain Frank V.
Sharpe was married to Flora, daughter of
Mrs. A. T. Cullen. White blossoms and blue
hydrangea were the decorations. The bride
was in ivory satin charmante; Mrs. Stewart
Conachie lent the embroidered tulle veil.
Marjorie and Norma Cullen ’maided, Joyce
Craven was the wee flower girl. Roy Sharpe
best-manned, and Roy Biggers was grooms-
man. The honeymoon will be spent in the
South, the bride travelling in a Wedgwood-
blue ensemble.
Attorney-General Neil Macgroarty took
to wife Doreen Mary, daughter of the C. E
Josephs, of Mooloolali, in St. Mary’s, South
Brisbane. The bride, who was given away
by her father, was in ivory satin with a veil
of Honiton lace, red roses and orchids form-
ing the bouquet. Nita Stoneham, Sydney,
and Eileen Joseph ’maided in hydrangea-
blue mariette and cream lace straw hats.
Paul O’Sullivan was best man, Robert Mac-
groarty ’groomed, and Rowe’s banqueting hall
saw the feasting.
The Governor and Lady Goodwin gave a
dinner party at Government House to the
E. K. Tullys, the George Larrits, the C. H.
Palmers, Colonel and Mrs. Campbell, Alice
Hawthorn, Peggy Dods, Alex. Macdonald,
Judith Brown, Leith Graham, Kathleen Tal-
bot, Hal L’Estrange, J. S. Robertson, M. S.
Biggs, A. Macdonald, R. Graham and T.
Brown.
This is
Sallie, only
daughter of
Mr. and Mrs.
H. W. Thoma-
son, Rathdon-
nel, Auchen-
flower, who is
going to marry
widower Char-
lie Bowl y.
She is an
accomplis h e d
pianist and
studied
abroad.
“The Mes-
siah” was
given by the
Brisb a n e
Musical
Union in St.
John’s Cathe-
dral, George
Sampson eon-
ducting. Nancy Mulrhead was the soprano,
Hilda Cooper the contralto; W. W. Crisp
tenored, with E. E. Seale as the other male
soloist.
Cremorne has staged “The Babes in the
Wood” for Christmastide, with pretty
Heather Jones playing the principal boy.
Nellie Bramley had a tremendous send-off
at the Royal on her farewell Friday, the
stage being heaped with flowers and gifts.
Boxing Day at Sandgate saw the wedding
of Gerald Fitzgerald Cardno to Florence
Eva, daughter of the late L. and Mrs.
Murphy, in the Roman Catholic Church.
Eileen McGinley, only daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. E. H. McGinley, Wilston, an-
nounces her engagement to Paul O’Sullivan,
third son of the late P. A. O’Sullivan and of
Mrs. O’Sullivan, Toowong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The holidays have been responsible for
a welter of race meetings, three in seven
days. Country visitors were in great force
at the Port Adelaide meeting at Cheltenham,
and the frocking was nothing to write to
Paris about. The weather was cold enough
for furs, but most women risked transparen-
cies. Mrs. A. V. Benson (wife of the club's
chairman) did the honors in a brown jumper
suit and a brown hat.
At the New Year’s meeting of the S.A.J.C.
at Morphettville the sunshine brought out
costumes in all the colors of the rainbow,
and quite as large a crop of bright-hued
shoes. Daffodil-yellow and sealing-wax red
quarrelled over first place, though the older
school still clings to black. Mrs. S. J.
Jacobs, acting hostess for chairman Whit-
more Carr, wore a black marocain
tailored coat and a small black hat. Mrs.
Allan McFarlane, always a smart frocker,
was also in black, with a black ballibuntal
straw hat. Lieutenant-Governor Murray was
there, and so was Mr. Justice Napier.
On New Year’s Eve the Mayor and
Mayoress gave a party at the Town Hall,
many of the guests motoring up from Victor
Harbor. All sorts of quaint caps and car-
nival favors were distributed. A band played
on the balcony, from which on the stroke
of 12 the Mayor wished the crowd a Hapnv
New Year.
The Mouldens gave a Christmas “bridge”
at their new home in North Adelaide. The
rooms were beautifully decorated with roses
and carnations in crystal bowls; the curios
collected by the hostess on her numerous
trips abroad would stock a small museum!
Her two daughters, with Marjorie Law-
rence, who is here from England on a visit,
are spending a few weeks at Normanville.
The guests included the Lud Mayoral pair.
Kangaroo Island gained further ground
this year among those who want to spend
Christmas away from the gurgling crowd.
Victor Harbor’s exclusiveness vanished when
good roads brought it within a couple of
hours of the city and motor ’buses began to
pour in their cargoes.
The holidays weren’t all joy for motorists.
The heavy rain that set in on Boxing Day
caught many far afield, and there were
drenched touring and camping parties that
had weary waits till tracks were ’passable.
The Coorong route to Melbourne remained
open as long as you didn’t try any short
cuts: invariably they meant disaster at the
first clay-patch. Along the road to
Broken Hill there were forced camps by the
dozen —some of them for 48 hours.
S’Langdon Bonython’s chief Christmas
party was one at which nearly two hundred-
weight of pudding was consumed. A thou-
sand of the city’s needy ate it; the Salv’army
supervised the feast. Son Lavington concen-
trated on the children, and fed and enter-
tained 3000 at the Exhibition, where ice-
cream was a great sufferer.
Though most of the German towns in the
Hills have been rechristened, Hahndorf still
keeps its yld “kingship” going, and the
crack rifleman of the year is still crowned
and garlanded in the old Teutonic fashion.
But the year’s “King” is no Schmidt or Vou
Turpitz. It’s Higgins, no less —and Jerry
most likely.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
A shower or two in the forenoon made a
problem of Derby Day frocking, but the
array of ninons and laces were safe in the
warm sun of the afternoon. Those who could
squeeze a few minutes from trying to pick
winners found the flower-beds entrancing
and a riot of color in the ca'nnas and bougain-
villaea at the back of the stand. Lady Cam-
pion sat among the palms in. the v.-r. cubby-
hole in a coat of mushroom satin and a
fitch necklet. Mrs. Winterbottom slipped
tissue-paper off a Paris creation of midnight-
blue showing a long point at the back ; Mrs.
Collins had a swathed hip-line on her navy
moire; Mrs. Cockram was in periwinkle-
blue; Peg Watson-Williams wore a medley
of white and tan; Mrs. Withnell chose green
satin; Madeleine Durack cherry-red moire;
and Mrs. Bob Black black chiffon. Mi's.
Geoff Lynn protected her buttercup voile
with a beige coat studded with russet and
gold beads. Blush-pink georgette and lace
fashioned* Mrs. John Walsh’s gown; and
her sister, Mrs. Dave Walsh, was all in red.
Joy Lathlain had a pink velvet swathe round
her hat, and a natural waist-line to her
flowered velvet frock. Mrs. John Stodart’s
shoes matched her lime-green gown.
Floral chiffons and flowing draperies had
an innings at the Railway Stakes. Her Ex.,
who wore black, chaperoned Judy James, in
blue, and the Archbishop’s daughters, sim-
plicities in white. Mrs. Roy Forrest’s
smart turnout included a flowered pattern on
black georgette and emerald-green belt and
footwear. Mrs, Frank Lefroy was in mastic
georgette; flowered draperies fluttered about
Pat Hamilton; and Bess Edwards had a
scarlet feather curling jauntily above a
lime-green hat; her bag and shoes matched
the feather and her frock matched the hat.
Mrs. Claude Morlet chose Egyptian-blue.
Pink and mauve flowers ran riot over Mrs.
Newman’s China-blue georgette; and undu-
lating frills piped with blue trimmed Phyllis
Hadley’s garment. Mrs. Jim Monteath’s
lemon frock was embroidered with pastel
flowers.
The. owner of Ozonia, the rank outsider
that won the Derby, is A. E. Hall, a nor’-
wester, who has ridden, trained and bred
horses for as long as he can remember.
He now owns Wooramel station.
The bride of the week was Kathleen, third
daughter of the Frank Cadd couple, whose
brunette beauty had a setting in Ross
Memorial Church, West Perth. The bride-
groom was Robert Leiper, from Lane
Cove, Sydney. White satin and ninon
fashioned the wedding garment, which was
girdled with diamente and a mist-of-tulle veil
swirled from a wreath of orange blossom.
There were three ’maids, bride’s sister Gwen,
Freida Weir and Joy Lathlain, in a froth-
of-champagne tulle, green sashes and picture
hats. The reception was at the home of the
bride’s parents.
Last week Brennan Park was opened on
the north side of the Cricket Ground, for-
mally a frog-haunted swamp. There is an
imposing entrance brilliantly lighted to show
off concrete towers and steel gates, and
steep banks of beautifully green lawn sur-
round the course. The first night of the
Christmas carnival was crowded, and on Cup
night, when there were over 15,000 people
present, Mrs. James Brennan wrapped her-
self in a lame coat and turban to decorate
the M.L. winner, Taurekareka.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
There were quite 12,000 people on the
banks of the Derwent when New Norfolk
held its 75th annual regatta. The O’Grady,
with private sec. N. E. Somers in attendance,
was entertained at lunch by the association.
The day was showery but not unpleasant,
and the little town in the lovely surround-
ings looked its best.
Wanda, the L. F. Piesses’ little auburn-
haired daughter, was hostess at one of the
brightest of our Christmas parties, the house
and garden at Eastbank, Sandy Bay, being
gaily decorated for the occasion.
His Ex. and daughter Margaret were pre-
sent at the prize-giving at the Kennerley
Boys’ Home, the former handing out the
rewards of diligence.
Mrs. O. R. Timing, wife of the R.T.C.T.’s
commodore, broke the usual bottle over the
stern of Tassie 111. at Lucas’s shipyards 1
when the brand-new craft took the water. |
It is hoped that the little vessel will main-
tain the reputation earned by Numbers I
and 11.
The Launceston Players wound up their j
1929 season of readings with two one-act
plays, “Wurzel-Flummery,” by A. A. Milne,
and “Two Gentlemen of Soho,” the ridi- I
culously-amusing Shakspearean burlesque by
A. P. Herbert. The Library Hall was !
packed for the affair. l


Mv CXy It\jMovJ-LvUuJ*S O' Ml&jt
b&xfuLj \aJ IfU (fhcffedc jfeJ<Un^aL
Os~cL /a- jvJUL jimlL- (&ucLa~y
ic * WUIMA^J,
fojlS <3^/tvv -&JLs
aJU/ - Cool -forv &*> umxJzs -id
29/v <Xs jU^J
CJU\>4d JwJUAJw>y A jpv#vv\S
CAjvJaJb io rnA- cfydjjaJo a***A*
tyyjXKJd A^W^ f 4a-X£JL CKjJ
1 dl/cnA, <U\s**s brcrky aj- UyjiS cJowiaAL
} 'l\f<\£ks,
<r\y fr\&rJ^ vv - pX^Xy
DO YOU WANT TO ENTER A PROFESSION?
tbhjhbjhķ
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and enter
a profession where there is a certainty of employment are advised to send for
our Prospectus. Here is one profession where the supply is not equal to the
demand. NOW is the time to begin.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
W&W26.
mrswmtwmm
mm
London Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
9NVUS
tbhjhbjhķ
BRANS
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC
CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
PTY,
LTD.
Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner d
la carte from 1/6. Inclusive tariff, £4/4/- weekly.
Special quotations for sporting bodies, etc. Situated
right opposite Spencer Street Station, no taxi fares;
railway porter carries baggage across if necessary.
Please write tor detailed tariff card. Carlyon’s
Hotel, Melbourne, is sufficient address.
Merry Christas!
BY ARTHUR GROOM
lILUVTDATED BY HARPY J. WEXTON
CHAPTER XXIII.
Back to the Stock Camp.
A WHITE man raced forward out ot
the darkness; he was followed by
others and a string of blacks who
kept well away from the headlights of the
ambulance car that was answering the mys-
terious call.
“Uncle!” A clear voice came from the
verandah. “Uncle, are you there?” Helen
Delaney discovered Jack Hinton and darted
quickly forward.
“Oh, I couldn’t make sure whether you
understood me over the ’phone,” she said
eagerly. “I think it’s Mr. Walters—l’m
almost sure, somehow. He’s hurt badly. The
blacks say it’s very bad. I’m sure it’s Jim.”
“When did the news come in, Miss?”
Pringle asked.
“This morning. There were peculiar
smoke signals rising up for hours, and the
blacks declared there was a white man at
the back of the run very seriously hurt—
or sick. Oh, I thought nobody was coming! ”
“Yes,” one of the older station-hands
interrupted. “The news came in about an
hour after sunrise. We all saw it. There
were about half a dozen big smoke signals,
mostly in the north-west, Eldeetil way.
Each one seemed like it was built up in
three columns. The niggers reckon who-
ever’s hurt is hurt bad, otherwise nobody’d
go lighting up like that. They reckon the
only place the signals’d come from would
be the Eldeetil Waterhole, and a higger
must have sent ’em.”
Mr. Hinton nodded. “It will be from
the stock-camp,” he said. “They must
be in trouble. Goodness only knows what
they’ve done with the thoroughbrace!
Must have smashed it up, I suppose. Did
anyone go out from here?”
“Yes,” the man answered—“young Green
and old Williams went out in the light
buckboard; but they had to put in two
young horses to make up a team, and that
means it’ll be a three-day journey at best
through the mud. We couldn’t dig up a
better team. The niggers relayed the smoke
signals on to Warkon to try and snare you.
The damn telephone—you couldn’t tell
whether you were talking to yourself or the
Prime Minister. Miss Delaney got through
in the end.”
Mr. Hinton moved around the car.
“I suppose you’ll—you’ll continue with
us on the strength of the signals?” he asked
Pringle, hesitantly. “The thing certainly
has doubt about it”
“Certainly, sir, certainly,” Pringle an-
swered. “Where there’s doubt there’s cause
for investigation—eh?”
“Splendid!” Hinton rubbed his hands.
“Gus, put three cases of benzine into the
.car. Also oceans of tucker.”
Mr. Hinton waved his companions to fol-
low him. He introduced them to Helen
Delaney,' who appeared subdued and
anxious. “We’ll go and have a spot of rum,”
he added. “We’ll need it before the night’s
out. A bit of hot food will kick us up a
bit, too.”
Fifteen minutes sufficed in which to eat
and prepare for the long journey ahead.
“How was the rain here?” Hinton asked
as a large roll of blankets was hurled into
the car.
“Not so extra heavy,” a man replied—“l
should say you got it heavier up in Warkon,
and it looked a lot heavier out towards
the Eldeetil Waterhole.
We registered 210 points
here. Time we got a bit,
anyway.”
As the engine w r as started
Helen burst from the group of onlookers.
Her face was drawn and white.
“Uncle,” she whispered, “if it’s—if it’s
Jim get him back, quick. He mustn’t die
—he mustn’t!”
As the car swung away Hinton felt a
queer sensation of surprise. Helen had
shocked him. She had shown him some-
thing of which he had scarcely believed her
capable. He glanced at his watch.
“It’s just after seven,” he said. “That
leaves about ten hours to daylight. Here,
Pringle, how about me giving you a change-
over?”
The thin track ahead was almost a puzzle
to Pringle; and after a slight hesitation
he relinquished the wheel. “This job does
make your back ache a bit,” he admitted.
Although Hinton was not such a remark-
able driver as his companion, he had know-
ledge of the track. Pringle and Caldwell,
watching the lighted road ahead, only
caught passing glimpses of it as the head-
lights lit up the dead grass wet with recent
rain, the stubbly bushes, pools of dirty
water, the scattered boulders. They roared
into muddy gullies where every yard seemed
the same, up over the low turkey-bush
ridges where slimy clay caused the car to
skid dangerously, and across strips of clay-
pan where cattle wandering during the rain
had blotted out all trace of track or road.
Yet the station-owner did not falter.
Under his guidance the car seemed possessed
of an uncanny knowledge.
“This bird’s a wonder at picking up a
track,” Caldwell said softly into Pringle’s
ear. “He must have crawled over this
one, I reckon, to remember it.”
Fifty miles passed quickly by. Pringle
was chewing a lump of cold beef when a
voice away to the left of the road hailed
them.
“Hey! Pull up!”
Hinton drew the car up and leant out into
the darkness.
“Who are you?”
“Alf Eden!” came the nearing reply. “Is
that you, Mr. Hinton? I’m riding in to the
station for you. There’s been an accident
in the camp. Jim Walters got crushed on
the cattle-camp yesterday. He’s bad. Pat
Young and I started out early this morning.
Pat’s horse gave out —died. He’s walking
somewhere away to Hell behind. You’ll
pick him up—maybe!”
“Yes, we’ll pick him up—if we strike
him,” Hinton answered. “You’d better keep
on in to the station now. How’s the road
ahead?”
“Boggy, and a lot of water lying about
in parts; but you’ll get through, I think.
I got an important message for Miss
Delaney.”
“I say, what happened to the thorough-
brace?” Hinton asked.
“Burnt!” Eden answered solemnly.
“Burnt! How?”
“Burnt right to the ground,” Eden re-
plied. “We don’t know how it caught
alight.”
“Oh, all right,” Hinton answered. “Did
you see Green and Williams anywhere in
the light buckboard?”
“Not a sign. Maybe they’ve turned off
the road. I wasn’t looking for anyone.
I’m not sure they know this road, and it’s
hell following it in the dark. Half the way
there’s no grass on either side to tell you
where the damn thing is.”
“Right,” Hinton agreed. “Have a few
days’ spell at the homestead. We’ll collect
Pat if we see him. So long!”
“So long!”
The car roared ahead again.
“Well, we know exactly what’s wrong,”
Pringle commented. “It saves a lot of
anxiety in a way. What’s the exact dis-
tance to this waterhole?”
“Somewhere about a hundred and twenty-
six miles,” Mr. Hinton replied.
Almost an hour later a moving object
in the far scope of the powerful lights
caused Mr. Hinton to slow down quickly.
Pat Young halted before a strip of water
in the centre of the track and shaded his
eyes. His face was drawn with fatigue, and
he was helped in behind.
“Gawd, who’d ’ve thought I’d ever get
a ride in one of these flamin’ things?” he
said, then gulped a mouthful of rum,
turned over on the pile of blankets and
went to sleep.
:J: Hi ❖ ❖
During the day Jim Walters managed to
swallow 7 brandy at long • intervals. The
spark of life in him was so weak that always
it seemed on the point of being extin-
guished, yet he continued to breathe, twitch-
ing a little now 7 and then, and once or twice
a jumble of sound escaped his lips.
The cattle were branded by the men left
at the camp. Very rough methods were
used, and little thought was taken of the
intermittent rain. Bob Owen worked in
almost a frenzy. Well before sundown the
mob was let out on to the western end of
the waterhole and allowed to “mother” for
a while; then the stockmen rode away,
leaving them free to move out through the
thick timber back to the Chip Hills.
As darkness deepened the men congre-
gated around the camp-fire, but spoke little.
The light from the lantern still shone
through the tent walls.
Almost thirty hours had passed since the
accident, and it would probably be days
yet before help came—unless by chance
Ardell’s signals had been interpreted and by
the grace of God were answered.
Ardell paced almost unceasingly a short
distance from the big ration tent. Every
little while he stopped to glance at the
light of the swinging lantern within. He
had worked prodigiously throughout the
day, but felt no fatigue.
At last he passed silently out beyond the
camp-fire of the white men, passed the ration
tent, and paused between it and a tall
tree which towered above the camp. His
head was thrown well back as he looked
up into its topmost boughs. Slowly he
began to climb.
“Where you going, Ardell?” Pat Dono-
van asked him.
“Maybe see something,” he answered
quietly.
“I’m going up too,” Sandy Jackson an-
nounced.
Silently the men below watched the
climbers. They saw Ardell reach a high, firm
branch and crawl well out on it. They
watched him snap a few twigs from it and
coil up in the fork of three thin branches.
They saw Sandy Jackson cease climbing
six feet or so below the aboriginal, and
cling steadily to two parallel branches.
Somehow the watchers expected the two
men to produce help and attention for the
injured man from the void of darkness
spread out before them. They waited, look-
ing upwards almost continuously to observe
Sandy and Ardell—attentive, watching
eagerly out in the south-west, scarcely
moving.
It came —nearly two hours before mid-
night.
Ardell stiffened. One hand raised and
stopped undecided before his face. He
looked like a strange being about to strike
swiftly. Sandy moved and looked out also.
Those below saw the movements and stood
up in anticipation.
Two more stockmen commenced to climb
the tree.
“There!” Ardell’s voice echoed out over
the waterhole.
For some time an expectant hush hung
over the camp. A lost calf commenced to
bellow in fright, a dingo answered—and
then it came again.
Many miles from the sou’-sou’-west, and
from an unexpected quarter, a ray swept
across the sky. A second later a distant
flash appeared as though well up on top of
a high hill, swung, disappeared.
“Where’s that?” someone called softly
from the branches of a tree.
“Long way,” Ai’dell announced. “S’pose
Vinegar Hill.”
“Vinegar Hill me eye!” Sandy answered
back. “You’re talkin’ through your hat.”
“I never had a hat,” Ardell responded.
“Well, Hinton must have polished his
lamps if it’s that far,” Sandy insisted.
Sometimes the light showed for seconds;
sometimes it jumped up and passed out
again instantaneously, causing the men to
rub their eyes and wonder whether they
really had seen it. On one occasion it kept
from sight for nearly twenty minutes, then
swept into view slightly to the north, and
a few minutes later a great deal further
south. There was something puzzling about
this approaching light. The stockmen com-
menced to guess at the distance.
“It’s less than three miles away,” a
watcher exclaimed, and then kept very
quiet as the light appeared and disappeared
in fits and starts, now seeming to be within
a few hundred yards of the camp and a
few seconds later so dim as to seem to be
fifty miles away.
“Maybe it’s only a firefly on the booze,”
Sandy suggested. “They get fair giddy
sometimes. “Y’ought to see ’em in Bris-
bane. Mobs—there. Now just look—you
can’t tell me the flamin’ track goes over
there! Hinton’s got bad wheel-wobble —
that’s what!”
More than an hour passed before Pat
Donovan rose from his seat on the cool
side of the camp-fire. He had caught a
glimpse of a light speeding between the
gidya directly east of the camp. A few
minutes later a low hum was heard. There
was a quick exodus from the treetops.
Blinding the watchers, and sending a
handful of terrified, wandering cattle crash-
ing back through the timber, the car ran
swiftly out from the gidya up to the camp
and stopped.
Pat Donovan peered at the mud-splashed
red Maltese cross. “Good Lord!” he cried
fervently. “An ambulance car! First I’ve
seen for years!”
Few words were wasted. The position
was explained to the bearers almost in a
breath. Ardell rose up out of the gloom
and examined the long car, touched the
muddied inscription with exploring fingers.
He stood back and admired the long over-
all length, patted the engine bonnet gently.
Inside the tent a hasty examination was
made of the injured man. Pringle, Cald-
well, Owen and the station-owner only were
allowed in. The ambulance bearers gave
crisp orders, and the orders were obeyed.
A few minutes later a stretcher was brought,
blankets were piled on it, and Jim Walters
was lifted up very gently and made as com-
fortable as possible.


For 136 years
Rowland’s Macassar Oil has been a favorite
dressing for the hair. Its close resemblance
to the natural oil has caused it to be used
more and more as something better than a
hair dressing. It keeps the hair healthy, and
prevents the encroachment of greyness and
baldness.
m
Maud’s
Macassar OH
Of all Chemists,
Stores and Hair-
dressers. Red for
dark hair; golden
for fair or grey
hair.
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.1.,
ENGLAND. c.T.P.65
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.:
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
I
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
“What’s the verdict?” Bob Owen glanced
up at the two bearers.
“Verdict! Well—that’s hard for us to
say, mate. He’s got some broken ribs.
His back’s in a hell of a state. All the
blooming cattle in the world must have
walked over him. We’ll have to get him
to hospital as quick as possible. When did
it happen?”
“Yesterday afternoon—about thirty-three
hours ago,” Owen answered slowly. “It
must be close on midnight now 7 , and it hap-
pened about three o’clock—yesterday, just
up the creek a bit.”
Pringle’s lips closed tightly. He bent and
made another examination, then straight-
ened.
“We’ve no time to waste,” he said. “I
wish there was a short cut to Warkon. We
want a doctor on this job—quick.”
Ardell moved towards the big car again
and waited.
The stockmen remained around the fire
in whispering groups and glanced nervously
towards the tent, noting the tell-tale
shadows playing on the thin duck walls.
The tent-flaps parted and swung back.
In weird procession the stockmen followed
the bearers into the darkness and watched
them place the unconscious form of Jim
Walters into the ambulance van.
Sandy Jackson stood before them holding
a tin tray. “Some cocoa,” he said —
“strong as blazes.”
They drank it quietly.
“How about me goin’ in with ’im?”
Sandy asked the station-owner.
His voice was eager. “Jim’s me
cobber like, an’ I want to be
there—to see what happens.”
Mr. Hinton conferred with the
bearers. They nodded in agree-
ment. Sandy climbed in behind
the driving seat and prepared to
sit in long vigil.
Ardell loomed near Jack
Pringle. He spoke to Mr. Hinton.
“Old Harry Eldeetil,” he com-
menced quietly, “when him live.
here—long time back—h av e
short track straight for Warkon.
Long way shorter track than
road round by homestead.”
“Yes, I’ve heard of it,” Hin-
ton replied. “Can the car travel
over it?”
“S’pose I show the way, car go
along it,” Ardell answered.
“Any creeks?”
“Little fellers and one big
swamp close-up Pilton-road.”
“I’ve been over it,” Sandy
volunteered. “Ardell an’ James
an’ me rode over it years ago.
Ardell knows the way. I
wouldn’t remember it again.”
“Will it carry a car?” Hinton
asked anxiously. “After all the
rain we’ve had?”
“There’s a lot of hard sand and
rock country on it,” >, Sandy
answered, “and you come out on
the Pilton-road about thirty
miles west of Warkon. There’s
a bit of a swamp near where
you join the road; but taken all
around it’s only a few miles longer than
from here to the homestead.”
Doubt seemed to hold Pringle.
“I’d welcome a saving,” he said, “but
we can’t afford to take any fool chances.”
“Are you sure, Sandy?” Hinton asked
abruptly.
“Ab-so-lutely,” Sandy answered solemnly.
“It’s a good hard track half the way. The
rest is just mixed plain country an’ red
ridges, but not bad.”
“And you, Ardell, you sure you can find
the track?”
“Yes.” Ardell’s tone was convincing. He
looked at the men about him. “Jim
Walters—him white-man cobber belong to
me—long time now. Him catch-back my
life once. We find short track to Warkon
—sure.”
Pringle nodded. He was satisfied.
“We’ll get a move on,” he said. “I’d
like Ardell up in front with me.”
The engine murmured again, and the car
swept off from the camp, up into the thick
gidya past the yards.
Jack Hinton took out his watch again.
“Nine minutes past twelve. Five hours to
daylight.” 7
CHAPTER XXIV.
The Track to Warkon.
The big car continued on out along old
Harry Eldeetil’s almost-forgotten short
route to Warkon. Pringle drove. Cattle
crashed back into the sheltering timber as
though their lives depended on quick
escape from the blinding lights.
When the speedo. showed eleven miles the
car commenced to climb a rough incline.
The track had disappeared entirely, and
rough bumps called to slacken speed.
Ardell continued to point silently straight
ahead. His hand seemed continually poised
out over the steering wheel, now indicating
just a fraction to the left by a twist of the
finger, now 7 a fraction to the right, but gen-
erally straight ahead.
A long even slope showed in front. The
headlights swept it for about a mile. Pringle
opened out.
“All good country for motor-car,” Ardell
advised suddenly. “Track go over this hill,
then way down longside little creek. Maybe
water in creek and rough track.”
The rain had left little impression on the
hard sand, and the car gathered speed.
Spinifex bushes crackled beneath the wheels.
The car topped the rise. “Look out!”
Hinton’s fingers dug into Pringle’s shoulder.
The brakes screeched, and the car
thumped softly into a wandering bullock
dazed by the headlights. The animal kicked
at the radiator and shuffled off into the
darkness. Other beasts stood blinded in
the track.
Pringle fumbled and switched off the
lights. Ardell leapt from the car, and,
crouching low, darted forward towards the
cattle. He hissed loudly and stamped his
“‘Uncle ’ she whispered, ‘if it’s—if it’s Jim, get him back, quick!”
bare feet on the flat ground. The cattle
turned and smashed away into the darkness.
The lights shone on again.
“I think I skidded off the track, Ardell,”
he said slowly. “Which way?”
“Little bit to right,” Ardell advised.
“That is good—little bit more—-now track
go straight ahead.”
Pringle laughed.
“You’re great on the straight ahead,” he
exclaimed; “but where’s the track?”
“Straight ahead,” Ardell replied with a
face still set in grim earnestness. “Nearly
everything straight ahead in this country.”
The country grew rough again; jagged
rocks cropped up through low bushes; small
potholes had to be negotiated with care.
“Where’s this creek you’re talking about,
Ardell?” Pringle asked impatiently after
driving more than a mile in low gear over
blacksoil. “I don’t think you know your-
self where the damn thing is!”
“ ’Bout mother mile—straight ahead,”
Ardell replied, and returned to his silent
watch.
“Straight ahead—again,” Pringle mut-
tered. “Thank God straight ahead is the
shortest way round!”
The ground sloped away again, grew
heavier and muddy. The car slid ovef dead
grass-roots, into shallow holes, and crawled
out again. Like a black wall a line of
coolabahs loomed up ahead. Pringle drove
straight for them, obeyed Ardell’s gesture
to swung sharp to the right where an open
hard claypan extended out from the creek.
The car leapt on to it eagerly.
“Bad patch straight ahead,” Ardell
warned at last. “When next shadow come,
I think. S’pose you pull up altogether.”
Almost immediately dark shadows deep-
ened out before the lights. A swamp lay
in the path, filled by the recent rains.
Ardell sprang from the car, ran forward,
explored quickly, now up to his knees in
mud, now wading through water almost to
his waist. He stayed long in one broad
stretch of water, examined the bottom with
his bare feet, paused, explored further. At
last he returned to the car.
“Him little bit hard on bottom,” he said.
“S’pose you follow me.”
“How far?” Pringle snapped.
“ ’Bout three time long as motor-car, then
not so bad. More better you want push
all-a-same.”
“Isn’t there any way around?”
“No,” Sandy Jackson interrupted. “I
remember this place.”
Pringle bit his lips in doubt and sat firmly
in his seat.
“I wish I had a camera,” he growled. “A
photo of this road would be worth a bit.”
Ardell entered the water again, stood and
looked back. Pringle and Caldwell sepa-
rated a little and stood in the glare a few
feet in the water. Sandy Jackson approached
slowly, shrugged his shoulders, and stepped
in very gingerly.
The car entered slowly, sank threaten-
ingly, slid ahead, and commenced to plough
slowly through. The wheels skidded, the
chains thrashed, the engine commenced to
feel the gruelling load.
“Push—like hell!” Pringle’s command
was snappy.
Water swirled around. The car stuck
suddenly, moved ahead a little until the
back wheels spun again.
Ardell darted back from the lead, then
threw his weight into the . push.
“Now again—maybe!”. he panted. “That
little bush—Misser Pringle! That best
way!” ; '
The car moved slowly, gripped a firm
bottom. More water appeared towards the
bush than anywhere else, but Pringle obeyed
the black’s command. The car approached
the bush, rising and bumping over the un-
even bottom.
“Again!” Pringle snapped, and. by heavy
effort the car was helped on to firm clay-
pan.
Hinton, Sandy and Caldwell clambered
back. Ardell w r alked ahead in the range
of light, waving the car to follow him. He
w r alked straight to a dark shadow, turned
along the top of a gully, twisted to right
and to left, indicated the passage across a
boggy patch in a gully which almost stopped
the car, and beckoned again. Gullies criss-
crossed, junctioned, twisted in half-circles.
“When the next flamin’ war starts,” Sandy
commenced, “I’m cornin’ here for a few
good trenches. A man’d make a fortune.
Huh! When I was in Brisbane I heard a
bloke cursin’ hell for leather about a little
crack in the road. Some bird had put in
a gas-pipe an’ hadn’t filled the flamin’ hole
up. I’d like to get him out here. I’d give
him grumblin’ at gas-holes.”
Sandy was interrupted by Ardell’s voice
directing the way through a short bog.
Then he did a step dance on firm ground,
jumped on the running-board
and climbed in beside Pringle.
“We got close up forty mile
good country ahead now,” he
declared. “Only better look out
for big shadow maybe. Plenty
native well in this country close
’Jongside track.”
The lights flashed on a small
gidya stump cut with an axe.
“See that?” Hinton demanded.
“Somebody’s been this way with
an axe.”
“Old Harry Eldeetil was a big
bloke,” Sandy volunteered.
“Nothin’ but a good fencin’-rail
was any good to him for a
toothpick.”
Hinton leant over and read
the speedometer. “We’ve come
forty-two miles. That leaves
another ninety-five, I think. Not
so bad!”
The country improved. The
track had disappeared long ago.
A car could have run almost
anywhere.
The claypan changed back to
sandy country again. Spinifex
cropped up. Rocky outcrops
showed up in the sand, changed
after a few miles to pebbly
ridges. The pace dropped a
little.
A loud report echoed through
the night; the car swerved.
Brakes screeched as a large tree
loomed up. “Watch yourselves!”
Pringle shouted. “Holy”
A thud and the car came to a
quick standstill. Dead sticks
rattled down on the hood.
“Blow-out!” Sandy exclaimed.
“Where’s the nearest service
station?”
But Caldwell and Pringle were
already busy. They had the
wheel off and tore away at a
smashed mudguard. The tree
had struck it a glancing blow.
Sandy Jackson moved off a
few feet into the darkness to
inspect the slope of the hill. He looked
back over his shoulder, and at the same
instant gave a yell and disappeared.
“Sandy’s gone!” Hinton shouted in alarm.
A burst of cursing rose seemingly from
the ground. Pringle had finished changing
the spare wheel. He stood up. perplexity
written on his red face.
“What’s the silly rat done with himself?”
he grumbled. “We’ve no time to play!”
Ardell walked into the beam of light. His
face was anxious. He looked out into the
darkness.
“Blackfellow well close up here,” he
exclaimed. “Sandy tumble down!”
“For Gawd’s sake, hurry up!” Sandy
shouted from below. “All me flamin’
bones is broke.” Genuine pain sounded in
his voice.
Ardell darted forward, slowed and
approached the edge cautiously. Before
(Continued on next page.)


Commence the New Year by joining the
BOOKSTALL
Circulating Library
CITY and COUNTRY
A LIBRARY DE LUXE.
’Phone: M 4361.
Situate in Rowlandson House, every attention has been given to its
appointments for the comfort of subscribers.
The many varied tastes of readers have been studied. The latest
books and magazines arriving by each mail from England and
America being added to the catalogue.
Both City and Country Subscribers are catered for, the latter
enjoying special freight facilities, Library Books being carried at
quarter rates.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
CITY.
1 Book at a time and
1 Magazine ....
2 Books at a time . .
2 Books at a time and]
2 Magazines . . |
OR V
3 Books at a time and I
1 Magazine .. J
8 Books at a time . . .
1 0 Books at a time . . .
Three
Months.
8/6
12/6
15/-
Six
Months.
15/6
£l/2/6
£l/7/6
Twelve
Months.
£l/7/6
£2
£2/10/-
COUNTRY.
tbhjhbjhķ
£l/15/-
£2/5/-
£ 2/15/-
£3/7/6
Country Clients pay freight both ways at specially reduced rates.
New Books added immediately on arrival.
Subscriptions may start at any time - - Payable in advance.
Books may be changed as often as desired.
ROWLANDSON HOUSE,
BOOKSTALL CORNER,
Castlereagh and Market Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
DOUBLE
GEARED.
p
COMPLETELY
ENCASED.
“Billabong”
The Extra Powerful Windmill.
When purchasing a WINDMILL, as in buying anything else, the Mill, as well
as the price, needs your full consideration. A defective or heavy-running
windmill is dear at any price. There’s exceptional value in the Billabong.
The Superior Ball-bearing Bedplate, Complete Encasement and the Perfect
Lubrication of the Billabong make it an easy-running Windmill that responds
to the lightest of breezes and is capable of working many more hours. For
heavy and continuous service experts recommend the Billabong.
The “Busy B” sft. Windmill.
To meet the demands of those who require but a moderate amount of water
which does not warrant the installation of a more powerful and higher-priced
mill, the “Busy B” will be found a sound proposition. It is of the direct-acting
type, has a ball-bearing turntable, and is automatically regulated to suit all
winds. Its sft. Wind Wheel is the Billabong Standard Design. The “Busy B”
can be supplied with fittings for mounting on a wooden post or with steel
tower as desired.
Send for Windmill Catalogue.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
1 JOHN
aiiiiiiiiiiuiiiimi
; L-TD
pry'
iiiiiiinmiiiltti
&SON|
immitiMtmmni
him a hole in the ground spread thirty or
forty feet across. Its soft sides ran to a
stony bottom fully forty feet below.
“Doodle-oodle-ooo!” Sandy cried. “Oh,
me legs an’ me nose’s busted all over me
dial!”
Pringle produced a rope and torch. He
tied the rope beneath his armpits, handed
it to Ardell and Caldwell.
“Righto, let me down!”
A minute later Pringle gave the signal
to pidl on the rope. “Steady! Sandy’s on
the end of it!”
Caldwell rose from a hasty examination.
“He’s fractured his right arm,” he declared,
“cut the back of his head a little, sprained
his right wrist, smashed his nose and broken
his right hand.”
“Hell!” Hinton exclaimed. “Any more?”
“Not yet,” Caldwell declared, and bent
to the task of first aid. “He’ll tell us the
rest when he wakes up. There’s another
stretcher in the ’bus—would you mind get-
ting it?”
Within five minutes Sandy Jackson lay
unconscious in the rear of the car, within
two feet of Jim Walters.
The car went ahead, with Ardell crouch-
ing in a new position on the running board.
The country flattened gradually out and
showed many signs of recent heavy rain,
and speed slackened suddenly. Low gear
had to be employed more often. Still the
miles piled up; and the water showed
widely ahead.
Jack Pringle stopped the car. “This
looks lovely,” he declared with humorous
sarcasm. “Seascape by night!”
“S’pose you follow me,” Ardell spoke
softly. “Maybe Pilton-road only about
two mile ahead, I think.”
He walked ahead, and was followed. He
twisted in and out between bog-holes, he
led the car a great detour through mud
and water round what appeared to be a
wide lake. A second lake followed, then a
third. He found a route over grass-roots
through spongy mud, out on to a thin strip
of claypan between two sheets of water,
until in the end water appeared to be all
round. Then he stopped and searched
ahead.
Less than fifty yards away the unmis-
takable marks of a black-soil road showed
out beneath the lights shining over the
swamp.
Ardell returned to the car. He appeared
troubled.
“You got pull-out for bog?” he asked.
“Yes,” Pringle answered, “but isn’t there
any way round?
Ardell shook his head. “We got to go
through. That Pilton-road. He go straight
to Warkon.”
Pringle nodded. He climbed down.
Scotty Caldwell followed. Little was said.
They unloaded a small winch, a length of
flexible steel rope, and half a dozen spikes
each about eighteen inches long. Scotty
waded out through the bog which seemed
to suck and to grip mercilessly, reached the
road, drove the spikes into the ground in
a line. Then he joined the spike tops
together with a length of rope, and put a
hook over the top of the spike nearest
to the car. Hinton and Ardell followed
through the water and brought the winch
with them. It was hooped up to the fore-
most spike. The cable was carried back
to the car and looped over the front axle.
The car entered the shallow water under
its own power, sank with a squelch into
the mud and stopped. The load was far
too great for the engine.
“That’s pretty quick!” Pringle shouted.
‘She’s bogged already! You’ll have to
pull steady. The mud must be almost up
to the axles.”
By turns Hinton, Caldwell and Ardell
worked the lever of the little pull-out
winch, the rope tautened, creaked and
hummed, but held, and drew the car slowly
through the clutching bog.
“I say”—the station-owner spoke as
though struck with a sudden idea. The
car held tight in the mud, and he stiffened
down to the extra pull.
“I say”—he gasped a little later—“what’s
about the time?”
“It’s just showing daylight in the east!”
Caldwell gasped back and reached higher
up on the winch handle.
' The car commenced to ride up on firmer
mud. Jack Hinton commenced to laugh.
“What’s up?” Caldwell asked suspiciously.
Hinton laughed again. “Merry Christmas,
Mr. Caldwell!”
The car reached firm ground, and the
winch handle was dropped. Scotty Cald-
well appeared highly amused.
“Same to you, Mr. Hinton,” he answered
with a grin. They shook hands; then they
both shook Ardell’s hands.
“Say, Jack!” Scotty’s voice held a note
of joy. “What’s biting you?’ *
“Merry Christmas, boy!”
“Merry what?”
“Christmas —Merry Christmas !”
“Holy smoke!” Jack Pringle gasped in
astonishment. “I hadn’t thought of it.
What’ll the missus say? She hasn’t got any
Christmas money, and nobody knows where
we are!”
“Can’t be helped,” Scotty replied. “Won-
derful church chimes this morning, ain’t
ihere? Hear ’em?”
CHAPTER XXV.
Christmas at Warkon.
Christmas Day brought Warkon a dense,
muggy heat and an invasion of sandflies,
toy whistles and trumpets. Somebody’s
blue-eyed wonder had unearthed a terrible
kettle-drum.
More than one man staggered before
sunrise, and Sam Regan ticked their names
on a list as he saw them crawl away to
slumber in the gloom beneath the hotel.
“One more less for Christmas dinner,” he
would say. “That’s another quid saved.”
The community of Warkon had years
before ordained unanimously a custom
which had taken deep root. For all the
patronage which he received through the
year, Samuel Regan was bound by his
honor, straight or crooked, to throw his
doors open to the district and to welcome
all who wished to come to a free, high-
class Christmas dinner, with turkey, beer
and all! And Sam found that it was a
saving proposition to give the men free
liquor in liberal quantities during Christ-
mas morning, so that a number would be
missing from the dinner table. Sappy
Jacques held the record for the most expen-
sive escape. It had cost Regan nineteen
shillings to put Sappy to sleep with rum
and whisky mixed, and Regan reckoned a
Christmas dinner cost “a quid.”
For years a pine wall had acted as
day book, ledger and journal of Sam
Regan’s business. Thus it happened that
a number of local men scanned Sam’s books
on Christmas morning, and arrived at a
firm conclusion that Sam had made much
more money during the past year than was
good for his soul and that he should keep
the hotel “free for all” until the end of
New Year’s Day. They argued in support
of their claim that the sudden inrush of
population would cause Warkon to move
ahead without parallel.
The warm argument was brought to a
sudden halt by the entrance through a
side door of Peggy Bryant with the news
that the ambulance car was returning.
As though led by a common urge the
men commenced to walk towards the Cot-
tage Hospital, a little more than a hundred
yards from the hotel. Half a dozen women
and between twenty and thirty youngsters
joined the procession.
The car reached the bottom end of the
short street, put the fear of d6ath into a
party of goats, then slid to a standstill
close to the hospital gate.
“Stand back, please.” Scotty Caldwell
slid from the car and approached the back
of the van. “Stand back, please!”
Within a few seconds Jim Walters was
carried into the hospital. He was scarcely
recognisable. Then Sandy Jackson also dis-
appeared into the little building. He moved
a little on the stretcher and muttered un-
intelligibly.
“That ugly bird’s Sandy Jackson!” some-
one remarked. “Looks like he’s got con-
cussion or a bullet in the nut. S’pose
there’s been a brawl.”
The two bearers emerged from the build-
ing and with Jack Hinton and Ardell
walked straight to the hotel. When Jack
Pringle tried to climb the steps his feet
seemed to fail and Ardell had to help
him. Scotty Caldwell swayed but managed
to keep his feet.
“I’d like a rum, Miss,” Jack Pringle was
saying at the bar.
Peggy Bryant poured four rums. She
handed out a cigar with each glass.
“Merry, merry Christmas,” she wished
them fervently. Jack Hinton repeated the
wish. Ardell grinned. Peggy Bryant
watched the glasses emptied. Then slowly
two men slid to the floor—Jack Pringle and
Caldwell.
Ardell looked at Jack Hinton. “I not
tired. Maybe you?”
“I am,” Hinton admitted. “Damn tired.
But we’d better get these two on to a soft
bed. They’ve had a tough time.”
“And they had a night of it before they
went with you,” Peggy Bryant said. “You’d
better all have a bed.”
The bearers were dropped on to clean
counterpanes. Their boots were removed.
Jack Hinton and Ardell also tumbled on
to soft beds, and Peggy Bryant pulled the
old green blinds low.
She tiptoed about in a final inspection.
Hinton had fallen asleep and Ardell was
staring up at the ceiling.* The bed of the
white people was strange to him. He
wanted to get back out into the open
again, where the air was strong and pure.
He watched Peggy Bryant leave the room
and then he rose silently and followed.
(To be continued next week.)
Song of a Sea Lover.
Tlie great steel ships go throbbing Out
Bound for the Ports of Far Delight,
The proud black ships with stretching spars
That stab the breast of night.
The long Pacific rolls before,
Down swing the stars behind ;
But my bark is lost in the red swell’s roar
In the cabins of my mind.
O, I would put to sea with you,
And seek new gold in Callao,
And ride the screaming winds that sweep
Magellan-wards from Rio.
For hearts are clay in the swirling town
And lust of life soon dies,
And whoso walks with serfs and clowns
Must needs not watch their eyes
Or heed their lies!
So come, old love, my fresh green love,
Green-bosomed angry sea,
Their whip of scorn will soon be but
A salty memory.
And you, great-breasted Mother Sea,
Shall have what men deny in me!
N.S.W.
R. BURNS.


SATSUMA 3762
THE IDEAL WEDDING GIFT
Decorated by skilled artists in rick
Crown Derby colorings so brigtft
and pleasing.
Dinner-ware and tea-ware, supper
sets, after-dinner coffee sets,
fruit-salad sets, teapots, jugs,
egg-cups, sandwich-trays, etc.,
etc. Any piece replaceable.
Colored illustration free, or
send 1/3 for sample bread-
and-butter plate and
name of nearest supplier.
BRITISH AND BEST.
T. W. HEATH & CO., LTD.,
G.P.O. Box 1389 J, Sydney,
or Commerce House, Melbourne.
tbhjhbjhķ
Nota Single
Disfiguriii&mir
Bathing girls, tennis girls;
dancing girls, in fact every
girl will find Veet a quick,
pleasant and satisfactory
solution to the perplexing
problem of superfluous hair.
This wonderful, perfumed,
velvety cream has been
used by millions to get rid
of disfiguring growths of
hair that destroy charm and
daintiness. Veet is better
than a razor and is far
superior to ordinary depila-
tories. You simply spread
it on as it comes from the
tube, wait a few minutes,
rinse it off, and the hair is
gone as if by magic. Satis-
faction guaranteed,or money
returned. 2/6 and U- from
all chemists.
Feet lis the original hair-
removing cream. Beware
of imitations.
meat
Remove* Hair LihaMagHo
PARIS
LE CHATEAU FROHTENAC
CHAMPS ELYSIiES
54 Rue Pierre Charron
Latest Hotel of Refinement
J. G. Metrailler.
Managing Director.
Cigars-
Craig sAitken
h Wholesale
Distributors
Sydney N SW.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Public Notices,
NOTICE
Returns of Insurance Premiums required
from persons, etc., insuring with any
Insurance Company not registered in
New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act 1909-27.
persons, firms, companies and associa-
tions being owners, trustees or agents for
any goods or property within the Sydney
Fire District, and every other Fire District
in the State of-New South Wales to which
the Fire Brigades Act 1909-27 has been
applied, in respect of which premiums are
paid to an insurance company not registered
in the State, are hereby notified that they
are required to send to the Board of Fire
Commissioners of New South Wales returns
showing the amount of such premiums paid
by them in respect of the said property to
such insurance companies during the. year
1929.
The time appointed for receipt of the
returns is on or before the 31st January,
1930, subject to a penalty not exceeding £1
per day for every day of default.
Note. —Returns are required only of the
proportion of the premiums properly charge-
able in respect of the Fire Risk during the
time such property was in any Fire District
under the said Act.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales,
H. M. WEBB,
Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
29th November, 1929.
NOTICE.
Return of Insurance Premiums required
from Insurance Companies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act 1909-27.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by
the above Act, are hereby notified that
they are required to send to the Board of
Fire Commissioners of New South Wales
returns showing the total amount of the
premiums received by or due to such com-
panies in respect of risks against fire during
the year ending 31st December, 1929, within
the Sydney Fire District and every other
Fire District in the State of New South
Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act
1909-27 applies, less any part of such
premiums actually paid by way of rein-
surance to any other insurance companies
contributing under the said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the
returns is on or before the 31st January,
1930, subject to a penalty not exceeding
Five pounds for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required
returns may be obtained from the under-
signed.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
Secretary,
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
29th November, 1929.
Legal Notice.
D E MARMADUKE FRANCIS JULIAN
LV RICARDE-SEAVER Deceased.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery
Division of the High Court of Justice dated
the 4th day of November 1929 made in an
action in the matter of the estate of Marma-
duke Francis Julian Ricarde-Seaver deceased
(late of 13 Frognal Mansions Hampstead
in the County of Middlesex who died on the
27th November 1928) Tomkins v. Prender-
gast (1929 R. 2199) whereby the following
inquiry was directed, viz.: —
'T. An Inquiry who upon the death of
the above-named Marmaduke Francis Julian
Ricarde-Seaver became beneficially entitled
to any property of his as to which he died
intestate and for what estate and interests
and in what shares and proportions and
whether any such persons are since
dead and if they died entitled to any vested
share or interest who are their legal per-
sonal representatives.”
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all
persons claiming to be entitled under the
said Inquiry are on or before the 20th March
1930 to send by post prepaid to Mr. Charles
Robert Hargreaves Hardcastle (a member
of the firm of Thorowgood Tabor and Hard-
castle solicitors) of 11 Copthall Court in the
City of London England their full Christian
and surnames addresses and descriptions and
full particulars of their claims or in default
thereof they will be excluded from the
benefit of the said order unless the Court
or Judge on application otherwise orders.
Claimants are to attend personally or by
their solicitor before Master H. W. Jelf at
the Chambers of the Judge Room No. 315
Royal Courts of Justice Strand London on
Thursday the 27th March 1930 at 12 o’clock
noon being the time appointed for adjudi-
cating upon the claims.
A claimant not residing in England or
Wales must send with particulars of his
claim the nam,e and address of a person in
England or Wales to whom notices to the
Claimant can be sent.
DATED this 22nd day of November 1929.
HERBERT W. JELF,
Master.
persons particularly inquired
after are the children and/or issue of (1)
the respective marriages of Francis Ignatius
Ricarde-Seaver (the father of the deceased)
with H.S.H. The Princess Dona Maria
Louisa Christina de Looz et Corswaren and
with Marie Antoinette de Villiers de la
Laurencie-Charras Marquise de Charras (2)
of Mary Anne Hogan (formerly Rickard)
and (3) of Catherine Prendergast (formerly
Rickard).
Thorowgood, Tabor and Hardcastle, 11
Copthall Court, London, E.C.2, Solicitors
for the Plaintiff.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
The Dead Horse.
J.H.M. ABBOTT
TELLS HOW CORPORAL BASTABLE, IN THE BAD OLD
DAYS, AVENGED TEE DEATH OF 3IS TROOP-HORSE WHITEFOOT.
CORPORAL BASTABLE, of the Mounted
Police, stood at the foot of the Lagoon
Mountain and watched his troop-horse
die.
If you had known Corporal Bastable as
he was in 1845, and his big bay gelding
Whitefoot, and had seen them both there,
on that summer morning, close by the right
bank of Page’s River, you would hardly have
known which of them to be the sorrier for.
The dying horse was pitiful enough as he
raised his head feebly to look at his master
standing helplessly by with his carbine in
his hand, the red blood welling through the
great hole torn in the horse’s chest by Tom
Nankervel’s bullet; but tears were running
down Corporal Bastable’s face, and it is a
pitiful thing to see such a man weeping.
As Whitefoot’s beautiful head came to its
last rest, and his fine limbs quivered and
were still, Bastable shook his fist up at the
densely wooded mountain side and swore.
“Ye dog, Tom Nankervel,” he shouted at
the mountain —“I’ll follow ye to Hell fo> -
this, and, by God, when I get ye, ye’ll
need no hangman.”
Up in the timber a musket cracked, and
Corporal Bastable’s flat, peaked cap jumped
from his head and fell upon the grass. A
little drift of white smoke eddied up through
the ironbarks on the steep slope, hardly a
hundred yards away.
Bastable walked to his saddle after pick-
ing up the perforated cap, undid the girths,
and lifted it from the dead horse. He
carried his load of saddle, holsters, saddle
bag and quart-pot towards a great spreading
apple-tree whose trunk had a thickness
of nearly four feet. Just before he reached
the cover, another bullet struck a flat stone
in front of him and, humming angrily, rico-
cheted across his path. Again the white
smoke drifted through the tree-tops.
“Shoot away, me beauty,” growled the
corporal as he deposited his load behind
the tree. “Shoot away. As ye know, it’s
you or me!”
It was nearly noon, and the long, dark
green length of the mountain seemed to lie
asleep beneath the dome of blue sky arching
over all that beautiful wild valley and forest-
clad flat through which the river twisted
and sang from waterhole to waterhole be-
neath miles and miles of dark and graceful
she-oak trees. Across the narrow entrance
to the Gorge, other great mountains towered
up into the sky, and to the westward there
were more. Everywhere, wild rugged ranges
piled themselves one on top of the other to
make a horizon ragged beyond description.
Just where the dead horse lay, the forest
was fairly open up to the first abrupt slopes
of the mountain that sheltered Thomas Nan-
kervel, escaped convict from one of the road-
gangs down the Hunter Valley, a murderer,
bushranger and outlaw with a price of £SO
upon his head. Great apple-trees and other
eucalypts grew about the flat, and the tree
behind which Corporal Bastable sheltered
himself, whilst he thought out a plan of cam-
paign, was one of many.
High up in the sky above the mountain,
an eagle hovered, poised and circled as though
keeping a watchful eye upon the two men,
hunter and hunted, who hid themselves in
the forest far below him, while they planned
each other’s death.
Bastable took out his pipe and lit it with
flint and steel and tinder-box as he sat
with his back to the rough bole of his tree
fortress. Carefully he examined the cap
on the nipple of his carbine —percussion caps
were still something of a novelty in 1845.
Lowering the hammer, he laid the carbine on
the ground beside him, and drew the two
pistols from the holsters on the saddle. They,
too, had percussion caps, and he saw that they
were ready for instant use ere he thrust them
in his belt. H'e smoked and pondered for
a while, muttering his thoughts, as many do
who live or travel much in their own com-
pany.
“And what’ll he be doing now? He doesn’t
know this country as I know it. His best plan
would be to keep down the river through the
Gorge, and down to the Isis River and the
Hunter. If he could wing me, he might easily
bail up Waverley homestead, or Gundy, or even
Belltrees itself, and get himself a horse, and
all he wants beside. But he doesn’t know,
and so he’s puzzled which way to go. I
could swear I winged him, back there on
Cameron’s Flat, where he tumbled over and
got up again. He was limping after that.
Oh, cunning—damn cunning to make sure o’
Whitefoot! We’re both afoot now, he’ll be
thinkin’. Well, I’ll get him. But I’ll have
to be careful he doesn’t get me. He can
shoot, and no mistake about that. Let’s see
if he’s still there.”
He scrambled on to his knees and picked
up the carbine. Putting his bullet punc-
tured cap on the end of the barrel he poked
it out on the left hand side of the tree trunk.
Ten seconds later a bullet sent the bark
flying a foot above it, and the crack of the
shot echoed back from the mountain. Hastily
peeping round the other side, the corporal
saw the smoke rising again in about the
same position as it had floated up before.
“Good eyes he’s got, too !” muttered Bas-
table as he withdrew his hat. “Well, I’ve
got ’em too, me lad —as ye’ll find out later on,
when ye’ve got to make for the water. And
I know the country. Laddie, I think ye’d
best be sayin’ a prayer. There’ll be no
chaplain to see you up the gallows outside
Newcastle gaol, Mr. Long Tom Nankervel.”
Twice in the next hour he put his cap
round the tree, and twice the outlaw came
within a foot of hitting it. Once he fired his
own carbine at a point below the drifting
smoke, and heard the smack of the bullet,
sharp .and distinct, as it struck a rock. A
yell of derision came from the mountain
side, and Bastable smiled grimly.
“What’s that they say?” he muttered.
“ ‘He laughs longest who laughs last’—yes,
that’s it, Long Tom. You wait a bit.”
Through the long afternoon he waited,
now and again drawing the other’s fire, and
once or twice sending back a shot himself.
As the sun sank behind the western ranges
long shafts of golden light lit the arcades
of the forest, and Bastable felt certain that
a grey boulder now lit by the level rays
was the shelter behind which the bushranger
lay. lie knew that his man would not move
until darkness had set in. So he ate some
bread and meat, and took a sup of brandy
from the flask in the saddle-bag.
* * * *
When the tumbled ranges to the westward
had changed from purple into dark indigo
and then into a black silhouette of peaks
and domes and camel-backs against the red
afterglow of sunset, Corporal Bastable set
about the business of the attack.
He felt sure by this time that Long Tom
must have been rather seriously hurt, else
he would never have lain behind his rock
through all the precious hours of the after-
noon, when the dense forest afforded such
complete cover for a retreat towards the
river.
So Mr. Nankervel’s progress towards the
much-needed water in the Page would be
more like a crawl. than a run. Corporal
Bastable felt certain of that, and he knew
that no little trickles of water could lay
in any of the gullies in this dry time. The
river was the only place where a man might
drink. His tactics must be shaped accord-
ingly.
Picking up the carbine, and with his pis-
tols in his belt, Corporal Bastable left the
big apple-tree and made his way noiselessly
through the timber to the point on the river
bank which was nearest to the place where
the bushranger had lain at bay. The huge
dome of the mountain loomed up blackly
against the radiance of the rising moon,
already beginning to light up the hills and
ridges to the westward, but the foot of it
lay in deep, impenetrable blackness. In half
an hour the full disc would swing over the
top and flood all this dark space with silvery
light—deceptive and uncertain, but suffi-
ciently strong to permit him to make sure
of any moving object in a print shirt that
approached across the little flat above the
river-bed. He would see Long Tom coming.
There could .be no doubt of that either.
Several times he paused to listen. The
night was full of the ceaseless little noises
of the bush—the chirping of crickets, the
scratchings of ’possums climbing up or com-
ing down tall tree-trunks, the occasional
hooting of a mopoke, the soft thudding of
a kangaroo returning to the mountain from
his evening drink —but otherwise was very
silent and still. Once a stick cracked with
a sound like a pistol-shot, and he almost
imagined he could hear a human voice mut-
tering curses. Just before he reached his
post he felt certain that he heard a deep
groan somewhere along the track Long Tom
must then have been painfully travelling.
But Corporal Bastable, mourning his dead
horse, felt no pity for the stricken creature
from whom it had been wrung.
When he came to the edge of the steep
bank he sat down behind a log, a little way
upstream from the spot where he knew his
man must come into sight. Presently
the moon rose clear of the black mountain
crest, and he saw with delight that fully
fifty yards of the narrow strip of alluvial,
covered with white bleached grass, was vis-
ible to him. Long Tom would need to change
himself into a snake to cross that zone un-
observed.
Half an hour maybe he sat still and
watched whilst the round lamp of the moon
climbed higher in the clear sky. Little sigh-
ing breezes made mournful music in the
tall she-oaks, and there was the continual
splashing and gurgle of the -river' as it poured
in a series of rapids through the rocky bot-
tom of the Gorge. Then Tom Nankervel
came crawling into the moonlight.
Evidently he was in a good deal of pain,
and his right leg dragged after him as he
pulled himself along like a three-legged dog.
The corporal could see his white face in
its black frame of unkempt beard as he drew
himself groaning into a patch of moonlight.
It was twisted into a snarl of pain, and his
tongue tried to moisten his dry lips. With
his left hand he dragged his musket beside
him.
Bastable was in deep shadow, and knew
that he was invisible to the other, scarcely
now five yards away. Long Tom paused and
stared at the edge of the high bank in front
and began to mutter to himself, but clearly
enough for the corporal to hear. Stifling
a desire to fire his carbine into the black
beard, he sat and watched his prey, and
listened to the weary profanity, the half-
wandering soliloquy.
“Strike me !” mumbled Long Tom. “Listen
to th’ water —an’ me perishin’ for a
drop of it!. ... How’m I agoin’ to git down
th’ blarsted bank?.... I must ha’ got him.
.... Sink his soul—l’ll go an’ cut his liver
out when I’ve had a drink. If he ain’t
dead, I’ll roast him alive.... Gawd, I can’t
git down with me gun. I’ll ha’ to charnce
it.”
He left his musket lying in the grass and
crawled slowly past the log towards the
river bank, passing hardly six feet from
where Bastable crouched. He came to the
edge and lay on his belly staring over the
little precipice of the bank at the glimmer-
ing water, sparkling and splashing in the
moonlight. Bastable softly rose to his feet
and leaned his carbine against the log.
Noiselessly he got out his handcuffs, stepped
over the log and stood behind Long Tom.
For a second he looked, then he jumped,
landing in the small of the bushranger’s
back.
A howl of rage and pain split the quietness
of the night; there was a brief struggle, the
handcuffs clicked, and Bastable dragged his
prisoner back from the bank, with his hands
secured behind him.
* * * *
Soon after sunrise Corporal Bastable stood
over his manacled prisoner beside the stiff
carcase of the dead horse. Nankervel was
still handcuffed and still thirsty. His lips
were swollen, and his face was pale and drawn.
A few yards away Bastable’s quart-pot stood
upon the ground full to the brim. The bush-
ranger asked for a drink.
(Continued on page 49.)


2 SENSATIONAL
NEW
CHRYSLERS
ARE HERE
NEW FROM THE GROUND UP
IN PERFORMANCE - CONTROL - LUXURY AND BEAUTY
"Five years ago the first Chrysler car revolutionized automobile design ,
performance and style. Our corps of great engineers now present new
cars even more sensational by to-day’s standards than was the first
Chrysler”
These additional Chryslers are not new models
in the sense of a few superficial refinements.
They are original creations. They are new from
the ground up —new in outer dress, new in
character, new in type of construction, new in
roomy luxury, new in vitality, new in ability
and efficiency.
The new six-cylinder Chrysler "66” is in every
way worthy of a place in the group of Chrysler
cars. In its own field it achieves results fully as
revolutionary as the new Chrysler "70.”
It is typically Chrysler in performance, in
beauty, in stamina —and at the lowest price of
any six to bear the name of Chrysler.
TH€ N6W 'I
m
km
THE NEW
70
THE NEW CHRYSLER “70” ROYAL SEDAN.
THE NEW CHRYSLER “66” ROYAL SEDAN.
The new Chrysler ”70” introduces such new developments ass
MULTI-RANGE GEAR SHlFT—Gives new pleasure to
driving; makes gear-shifting a joy even to the inexperienced;
widens the power range; shift gears as always, but with new
ease, new quickness, new quietness.
DOWN-DRAFT CARBURETOR—Not merely a gravity
manifold but a new principle of fuelizing; complete car*
buretion; smoother power; higher mileage; quicker opera*
tion. Extra large mechanical fuel pump.
SYNCHRONIZED POWER SYSTEM.—Engineered as a
unit from radiator to rear axle; new flexibility, smoothness
and economy, still longer life.
ARCHITONIC BODIES. —New in principle, non-squeak-
ing, non-rumbling dreadnought construction; new strength
and safety, new slanting non-glare windshield.
Those and a host of other features put it farther ahead of
all other present-day automobiles than the first Chrysler
was ahead of the cars of five years ago.
Come to the salesroom. Examine these new Chryslers at your leisure.
Arrange for a demonstration; and you’ll experience the supreme sensation
of outclassing other cars on any road, in any test, and under all conditions.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales . . . Larke, Neave & Carter Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Lane’s Motors Pty. Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Ward Motors Limited, Brisbane
West Australia Wm. Attwood Motors Ltd., Perth
South Australia Southern Motors Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania Metro Motors Pty. Ltd., Hobart
New Zealand Todd Motor Company, Wellington
New Guinea W. R. Carpenter & Co. Ltd., Rabaul
NCSIOI


The Story of Mr. Smith and Mr. Jones!
Mr. Smith and Mr. Jones represent average men
who are working and saving to-day to make
themselves financially independent in the future.
Every man can obtain financial independence.
The proper method results in success. The wrong
method results in failure.
Mr. Smith placed £2 each week in a
Savings Account. At the end of five years
he had accumulated £579. He realised
that he could not attain financial indepen-
dence having his savings earn only 4%,
so he decided that he must increase his
interest return. He started to speculate;
bought shares in many wild-cat ventures
that promised wonderful results; he would
soon get rich. Some of the companies
liquidated; some never paid dividends. In
a few years Smith had only shares certifi-
cates to show for his savings. Saved more
and let it go the same way. He was dis-
couraged. Decided it was no use saving
money. Financial worries followed, affect-
ing his work. To-day Smith is working,
worried and making no progress; just one
of the large army of failures.
Mr. Jones also saved and decided that he
must secure a greater return on his money.
He studied the problem and decided that
he must seek sound investments and, as he
had no money to lose, must keep away
from speculation. Clever share salesmen
•besieged him with offers that looked very
attractive. Mr. Jones said, “No!” He stuck
to investment. Some of his investments
yielded 6%, some 7%, others as high
as 121%. At all times his money worked
in safety. During the next 15 years, with-
out increasing his weekly savings, his £579
became £5330, for he was able to average
9% on his money. Jones had no financial
worries and his work prospered. Money
gave him confidence. To-day Jones is
general manager of the company he started
with. Jones has achieved success and
Financial Independence.
Why not follow the plan of Mr. Jones f Our booklet, “Investment
or Speculation—Which Bo You Choose?” explains the difference
between investment and .speculation. We will gladly send you a
copy free and without obligation.
SEND FOR YOOR COPY TO-DAY!
tbhjhbjhķ
oJ\Austrcuvsi. -CimitecL.
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Send me your booklet, “Invest-
ment or Speculation—Which Do
You Choose?”
Name r..,.-..
Address
'(LIU
/
t'.
\Y.
WmSlb "381
AVOID SUBSTITUTES:
Every genuine Kropp stamped "Made
and ground in Sheffield, England.”
Hand-forged
from solid bars
of special steel
Rropp Razors are made at Sheffield, England,
by the world’s most expert craftsmen.
Made so well that every Kropp always has
a keener, finer cutting edge than cast steel
or machine-stamped razors. Kropp means
day to day comfort in shaving
for the rest of your life.
KROPP
never requires grinding
Individually tested, and fully guar-
anteed. Black, Ivory or Xylonite
handles. From the usual dealers.
Wholesale only : OSBORNE
GARRETT & Co.,Ltd.,
London, England,
If any illustration in “ THE
BULLETIN ” takes your fancy,
Write to the MANAGER, who will
quote you price for the original.
S^o*'
the Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and ‘Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Patterson- Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
426 National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
726 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Quiet-
Baths.
-Restful—Cool —Open to the Summer Sea Breezes. With Private Beach and Amphitheatre
Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds and Garage
Accommodation.
Tariff from 4j| guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines).
“Gawd, Trooper,” he begged hoarsely, “jest
a mouthful. F’r th’ love o’ Gawd —on’y a
mouthful!”
Bastable shook his head.
“Not a drop till ye dig that grave. Come,
the sooner ye finish th’ job th’ sooner will
ye drink.”
Long Tom growled an oath. “How’m I to
dig it without a .spade?”
“ ’Tis sandy. Scrape a hole with your
two hands, Long Tom. It needn’t be a
deep one—only a couple of feet. Just enough
to hold poor Whitefoot’s body. He was
my best friend, and ’tis right I should make
ye dig his grave, since ’twas you killed him.
Murdered him. There was no need for to
shoot the horse—ye might have shot me.
Will ye dig?”
The bushranger groaned. “Oh, yes,” he
muttered thickly. “Loose me hands an’ I’ll
scoop out a hole. Will ye give me
water then?”
“Yes, ye’ll have a drink when ye’ve
finished.”
“Then take off these darbies an’ I’ll do it.”
Taking the key from his pocket the cor-
poral stooped and unlocked the handcuffs.
Then he stood back and levelled a pistol
at the man before him.
“Now, no nonsense, Nankervel. Begin
under his belly and scoop outwards. Ye’ll
have to make two trenches for his legs. You
needn’t go so deep. Get to it now.”
The bushranger crawled between the out-
stretched limbs of the dead horse and began
to scrape away the loose, soft soil, working
in silence. Bastable walked up and down,
his carbine in the crook of his elbow, be-
tween his prisoner and the pot of water.
F'or an hour the man toiled; then the
corporal said: “That’ll do. Hold out your
hands.”
The bushranger did as he was told, and
the handcuffs once again were snapped upon
his wrists.
“The drink!” croaked Long Tom.
Corporal Bastable. picked up the pot,
poured a little brandy into it from his flask
and held it to his prisoner’s lips. Greedily,
his teeth biting on the side of the quart as
though he feared it might be snatched away,
the outlaw gulped the draught down to the
last drop.
“Ah,” he gasped—“more !”
“No, ye’ll have no more. Now you sit
still there. If ye so much as move I’ll shoot
ye dead. I’ve two pistols here, as ye see.
Keep quiet while I put Whitefoot in his
grave. ’Tis you should do this by rights,
but I’m not a hard man. Lie down and keep
quiet.”
Wearily rolling himself on to his back
the wounded man closed his eyes and lay
still whilst the other took off his jacket and
began to drag with his hands at the forelegs
of his horse.
Slowly, inch by inch, he managed to lay
the carcase into the hole. Then he piled
in the earth that Long Tom had scraped out
with his fingers. This done, he took his
jacket and filled it with broken fragments
of basalt, and in another hour he had made
a cairn above the buried horse.
All the while the bushranger lay upon his
back with his eyes closed.
Corporal Bastable hunted round for a
suitable branch, which he began to carve
with his pocket-knife. When he had finished
he stuck it upright in the pile of rocks. Along
its length in rude letters he had carved:
“WHITEFOOT—DEC. 3, 1845.”
This task completed he sat down with
his back to a tree and took out his pocket-
book in which he wrote busily for twenty
minutes. This is what he wrote. It was
addressed to Lieutenant Moriarty, O.C. the
Upper Hunter Detachment of the Border
Police, Muswellbrook: —
“Sir —I have to report that about midday on the
3rd instant I came up with the escaped prisoner and
bushranger Thomas Nankervel, per Stirling- Castle,
and succeeded in effecting his arrest on Page’s River,
close to the Lagoon Mountain. He was slightly
wounded by a bullet from my carbine in the right
leg. Unfortunately on the following morning he
attempted to make his escape, when, after calling
upon him to halt, in the Queen’s name, I was com-
pelled to fire upon him with fatal results. I have
the honor to request that you will be good enough
to forward an application on my behalf to the
Hon. the Colonial Secretary for the reward of £SO
offering by Government for the apprehension of the
said Thomas Nankervel, dead or alive. I have con-
veyed the head of deceased to the Police Office
at Murrurundi, where it is now available for identi-
fication. I have the honor to be, Sir, your obedient
servant— -Charles Bastable, Corporal, Border
Mounted Police.”
Having finished his writing Corporal
Bastable laid the pocket-book down upon
his jacket and picked up his carbine. Fie
walked over to where Long Tom lay in -the
grass, and stood loking down at him for a
moment or two in grim silence. Then he
stooped, unlocked the handcuffs, and stirred
the bushranger with the toe of his boot.
The man opened his eyes and sat up.
“Come,” said the corporal, “I’m going to
take you down to the river. Stan'd up and
walk in front of me. You can hobble all
right.”
Long Tom got eagerly on to his feet;
Bastable pointed with his carbine in the
direction he was to go, and the outlaw began
to hobble across the flat, the corporal march-
ing after him.
High up in the blue sky the same great
eagle that had soared there yesterday was
the only witness of what happened next.
A hundred yards from Whitefoot’s tomb
Corporal Bastable, six yards behind his pri-
soner, went down upon one knee.
“Halt—in the Queen’s name!” he shouted.
Tom Nankervel turned round.
The bullet took him squarely in the centre
of the forehead.
The Message.
ANOTHER OF
S. STEDMAN’S
STIRRING STORIES O,F HIS NATIVE
RUSSIA AND ITS REVOLUTION.
Thou art so pitiful,
Poor and so sorrowful,
Jet thou art powerful
RuLT mv Mothe* ? ’
F. _ ’
ATHER EGOR paced up and down the
small room, his footsteps resounding
clearly and regularly like the ticking
of a clock. Fragments of thoughts came to
his mind, stayed a while, disappeared. One
of them brought to his memory the words
of Nekrasoff’s poem. “Who can be happy
and free in Russia?” and Father Egor men-
tally recited the lines:
So Russia lies sleeping
In obstinate rest :
Bu * should the spark kindle
Thats hid m her breast,
She’ll rise without summons,
, G° forth without call,
With sacrifice boundless
Each giving his all!
tt . , , £ ", . , .
stopped before the window watching
the fantastic designs the frost had wrought
upon tne pane.
It was December, 1918, a little over a
year after the second revolution, and Russia
was plunged in civil war. In the small
villages the poor peasants had driven out
the rich landlords and proceeded to divide
the spoil. The monotony of village life had
changed into feverish activity. Meetings
were held daily, and local Soviets ruled and
regulated the life of the village.
There was an air of alternating optimism
jubilation, depression. Not since 1861, the
year the peasants had been freed from serf-
dom, had there been such excitement. Men
and women had suddenly realised that they,
too, were part of Russia, and from now on
would have a say in its management.
Only Father Egor, the village priest,
remained outside the general enthusiasm.
His little church remained empty on Sun-
days. _ Tim people were too busy shouting
and discussing politics to attend his services.
For many years he had been their spiritual
head, taking part in their daily life, feeling
happy m their happiness, suffering m their
sorrows,, and now he was left alone. Men
came from the city who addressed the
peasants, telling them of all the harm the
Church had done them, and calling the
priest a loafer and exploiter. Even m the
streets people avoided lum as though Ins
black coat meant evil.
Agam the words of the poem hammered
at his brain:
A host she will gather
Gf strength unsurpassed,
W Willt g ft%o o the ag last.
It was true, he thought. Russia was fight-
ing. Men were killing each other with infinite
s»££&%
sacrificed W ° rthy ° f thG tremendouS
There was a noise outside the door and
Pakhom came in. The priest showed his
pleasure at seeing the peasant.
“Sit down Pakhom” he said and Pak-
horn sat ho ding his hat in Ms hands 1 1
“What brou-lft vou here mv son’” asked
the Driest r ° U ’ t y ° U * 6 ’ y ’ aSked
There was a pause, and Pakhom was
silent, as though uncertain. At last he
“There is no more Czar in Russia.”
The priest waited.
“And no Ministers,” continued Pakhom
slowly, “and soon there will be no Church
and no priest:” He was silent as though
searching for words to express his thoughts.
Then suddenly he asked: “And what about
God?”
Father Egor understood the meaning of
Pakhom’s question. Everything that the
people for centuries had regarded as neces-
S ary and sacred was being abolished. Czar,
Government, wealth and religion were dis-
carded, and pakhom was fearful lest God,
too, would be removed from the lives of
men. What would happen in such a case?
Father Egor knew that the man was but
expressing the anxiety of millions who were
torn bebw een love or the old and the bright
promise of the new. “God will always live,
Pakhom,” he said. “No one can abolish
Him for He lives in the hearts of the
lO * 116 llves ln tne aeart ® ° r me
people. You can remove a Czar, destroy a
cburcbi but you cannot abolish God.”
Pakhom sat for some time pondering over
the answer. There was something that still
worried him.
“Father,” he said again, “but the child-
ren will not know of God. There will be
nothing to remind them of Him.”
The priest had no answer, could offer no
hope. It was of the future generation that
he, too, often had thought. What sort of
men and women would they be? Freed from
old customs, traditions and beliefs, would
they be free and happy, or were they going
to crea te new customs, new beliefs, worship
new gods, pay homage to new saints?
Silently Pakhom departed and Father
Egor felt that he should have said something
more to the peasant; yet he himself was
uncertain of the future. Things were too
confused,
He dressed and went out into the street.
A ccdd sun sent its rays down and turned
the white snow into glittering jewels. A
f ew sparrows hopped about in. the street.
A crow flew high overhead. It was the
US ual scene: everything seemed the same, yet
t ] ie lives of millions were being thrown into
the crucible, and no one could tell what
bbe result would be.
He passed the large house of Kleem, who
Had been the richest man in the village. The
house was empty. Window-panes were
broken and, like open • wounds, disfigured
the whitewashed walls. Peasants were com-
ing out of tlle ate carrying bundles of
wood.
Father Egor entered and found men
pulling boards off the roof of a shed. They
Wm with sullen eyes.
b „ f „ k ? d coffiv°°“TThrere Lit onmV.rU 61 '^' a
| n £ g wood
- nOW ” —ed one of the
“No' friend, it is not yours,” said the
f oni vour”brothers” fl y ° U St6al ~
, * ,
f i-i Silent • then r ?^. and iri S £? od
t? r a y, e silent, then they left. Father
Eg ?. r fel , t . sorrow for the “ : they did not
real ! se responsibilities, were ignorant
of their duties towards the State.
a vff ‘ f he asked,
w ht tefe Lt grown ,'5 chTldreL He S a
(Continued on next page.}


TRUCK
Model “Fourteen”
GROSS CAPACITY, 52CWT., INCLUDING BODY
u
m
a v
, ■ Sr JM
M
1 b
m
m
ti
mm
BEAN COMPANY’S
TRUCK CHASSIS
SECRET TESTS IN
AUSTRALIA.
(“Pictorial” Special
Service.)
LONDON, Friday.
Mr. Noel Martin, man-
aging director of the
Bean Motor Co., announ-
ced at a luncheon the
details of ■ a J/j-50cwt.
Empire model truck
chassis.
He revealed that the
company built eight
experimental chassis
quietly, and shipped
three to Australia, with
instructions that they be
broken up if work could
break them up.
They were most
severely tested, and ran
collectively 150,000
miles before they were
reported on.
Extract prom the “Telegraph
Pictorial,” 7/9/’29,
After nearly three years’ experience
with Bean Trucks, Messrs. Anthony
Hordern & Sons, Ltd., have purchased
six of the new models, bringing their
fleet of Beans up to 33. This truck
is one of the six.
HH!
Chassis available for Immediate Delivery.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
163 William Street, Sydney.
BEAN CARS, LIMITED,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
tbhjhbjhķ
desire to go to their meeting, speak, to them,
tell them of his great love for them, and
help them on their new and difficult journey.
They were stealing the timber because of
their ignorance. They drank and swore
and beat their wives because of their ignor-
ance. They were false and cunning through
their ignorance. They had worked hard and
suffered want and privation. They had been
oppressed and persecuted. But the Church
had failed them. She cared too much for
their souls, neglecting their bodies and minds.
Another verse of the poem came to his
mind:
By misery chastened,
By serfdom of old,
The heart of thy people,
0 Russia, is gold!
For some time lie stood before the old
church looking at it intently as though see-
ing it for the first time. How many con-
fessions had he heard in this place, where
his people had told him of their secret
thoughts and deeds! Here the infants had
been brought to be christened and from here
the dead had departed on their last journey.
He still tolled the bells on Sundays, calling
the flock to prayer, but few answered. The
officials who came from the city kept _an
eye on all who adhered to the old religion.
Sundays and holidays there were political
meetings, and the people had to attend, and
no time was left for devotions.
Christmas was approaching. Father Egor
spoke to a few of the older peasants. Their
answers were indefinite ; they felt uneasy—
they wanted to worship, but the risk was too
great. No one cared to be marked down
and probably lose something thereby.
Two days before the holiday the priest
received a notice from the local Soviet that
the church was required for Government
offices, and would be occupied forthwith. He
went to see the Commissar..
“I am pleased to see you, Citizen Egor,”
the Commissar said.
A woman brought in a samovar and
Father Egor accepted a cup of hot tea.
“I want you to leave me the old church,”
the priest said. “I am an old man and in
it have spent my life in the services of
God.”
The Commissar listened. Then he an-
swered: “I am sorry, Citizen, but our orders
are to close the churches. Our policy is to
abolish religion.”
“Men must have a faith,” Father Egor
urged.
“We are teaching them to have faith in
themselves and in their class. We are teach-
ing the true religion—the Brotherhood of the
Proletariat.”
“But you do not need the old church,”
the priest pleaded. “Leave it to me. Let
me worship in it with the few who still feel
a love of God. Through centuries of hard-
ship and suffering the Ilussian peasant found
consolation in his Church. Why destroy it
so ruthlessly?”
“Did the Church take the part of the
peasants and tell the Czar that he was a
murderer?” asked the Commissar. “Did
the Church give up its treasures to help the
poor?”
Father Egor defended, argued, pleaded,
but the Commissar could not alter the instruc-
tions ; so the priest returned home, his heart
full of pain and hopelessness.
On Christmas Eve soldiers came and re-
moved the pews. Only from the walls still
looked down a few ikons which had not
been taken away.
Night had fallen. Father Egor, moving in
the darkness, approached the altar, lighted
a candle, and knelt on the bare floor. Tears
streamed down his wrinkled face and lost
themselves in his grey beard.
“O Lord,” he prayed, “let them not rob
me of my last happiness. I am an old
man who have served Thee faithfully. Let
not Thine enemies conquer Thee and Thy
servant.”
Black shadows crept along the white
walls, and it seemed to Father Egor that the
place was filled with soft whispers. H'e
closed his eyes, and prostrate on the floor he
listened. The flame of the candle moved
to and fro as though endeavoring to pene-
trate the gloom. An old woman came in
holding her breath. She knelt near the
priest.
“Bless me, Father,” she begged. “This
is Christmas and the church is empty.”
“That is nothing, Mother,” Father Egor
answered her. “Many people are praying at
home to-night and their prayers are no less
fervent for that.”
This thought, which came suddenly,
brought some relief.
Soldiers began moving the old altar. The
nails held fast, as though unwilling to part
from the floor. Then there was silence
again.
Father Egor, with candle in hand, walked
along the walls, stopping often as if bidding
farewell to familiar things. Then he climbed
the creaking stairs to the belfry. The village
lay before him. Here and there a light in a
cottage was visible, and he named the owner
of the home.
A compelling desire to hear the bells seized
him, a wish to make them ring long and
loud, to waken the peasants, men, women
and children, to remind them that it was
Christmas, that God still lived and that the
priest was still His servant.
His hand held the rope; then suddenly he
thought of the soldiers who would pull him
down and give him no time to proclaim
the arrival of Christmas.
Slowly he descended the. stairs, and, tak-
ing ' the oil-lamp from his room, he poured
the contents on the bottom steps. This
done, he set a match to it, and, quickly
climbing to the top, he gripped the rope.
With all his might he swung the tongue of
the bell, and loud ringing pealed above the
sleeping village. Then the smaller bells
joined in.
Bewildered people came out of the houses,
some of them forgetting all precautions and
making the sign of the Cross, others mur-
muring prayers. A red tongue of fire
appeared in a window. It licked the old wall
like a wild animal licking its wounds. Fright-
ened people ran to the church. Some
attempted to climb the stairs, but the fire
had cut off all the approaches. The bells
continued to deliver their message of hope
and promise. Higher and higher rose the
flames, and the crackling of the fire mingled
with the other sounds.
Awe-strickeu men and women knelt in
the snow, and Father Egor’s heart sang
within him at the sight. He felt that his
message was delivered, that the bells were
striking at the hearts of the people, that
the sounds would ring in the ears of men
and women for ever and ever.
He heard the wild shouts, felt the hot
breath of the flames and continued pulling
at the ropes. It seemed to him the old bells
had never rung so loudly, so beautifully,
and he himself had never felt so utterly
happy.
“Boom, boom!”
The flames were creeping very near, but
he still pulled at the rope. His only thought
was to ring, ring—to strike to the very souls
of the people, to awaken in them the dormant
love for their God.
One superhuman effort, and the great bell
sent out a mighty .call as part of the old
church fell in and a . shower of sparks
lighted the faces of the terrified people.
“I have delivered Thy message,” Father
Egor murmured, sinking to the burning
floor.
“They have heard Thee,” his lips whis-
pered. “They will never forget.”
And as though in a dream he heard: —
Thou art so pitiful,
Poor and so sorrowful,
Yet thou art powerful,
Thy wealth is plentiful,
Russia, my Mother!
The Windmill.
I saw the face of a silver moon
Round as the earth is round, I know,
And a windmill black as a skillet lay
Like a gallows on its glow;
And there was a twisted road that ran
Down to the moor below.
Nothing but shadows on the road,
And never a breath in the sail;
And why was the windmill made so black
And why was the moon so pale?
If the long blades turned in the listening
air,
Would they whisper a shuddering tale?
To tell of something that fled away
Qver a shivering moor,
When the ghastly face of a frightened moon
Looked in at an open door,
And there was a windmill with frozen sails
And a red pool on the floor?
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The Bright Shadow.
Legends through the centuries,
Sagas down the years,
The world has crowded hieroglyphs in close-
writ pages
Of fair or bloody history.
One land only kept her past through happen-
ings of ages
Sealed in candid mystery.
But who came to Australia
Before the pioneers?
Unquiet god, or roaming angel,
Power of love or fear,
Who came? Who came?
Who came here ?
Dcedless as Sleeping Beauty
(None guessed her dreams),
Ringed by serried water thorns of many
peaked ocean,
So our fathers found her,
Hailed her as a virgin queen hushed by
magic potion
Of the strong seas round her,
Claimed an unclaimed continent,
Blind to certain gleams !
Tall grow our shining cities,
Wide new furrows spread;
But from the vasty isle
Someone lias fled.
With never a ruined temple
Or broken monolith,
Simple, sunshine-loving, the black people
dwelt here
Like the forest creatures;
Innocent as animals, whatever ’twas they
felt here
They graved not on her features.
No story has Australia,
No long-whispered myth.
Yet over all her acres,
Under all her skies,
Glimpsed like warm lightning
A bright shadow lies.
I have seen a forest
Taken unaware.
Glamor lit the moment, Heaven drew down
in blessing,
And the high trees glorious
Stood erect like worshippers calm ecstasy
confessing
To a Joy victorious.
Leaves of loftiest branches,
Dew-misted maidenhair,
Each'told to me sweetly
What meant that thrill;
But I failed, faltered,
Untaught still.
There is a sandy hollow
Within breath of the sea
Where the casuarinas make a wild, low
sighing
On the edge of sadness.
Once I saw a holy color like a dream flying
Vanish there in gladness.
It was strange remembrance
Of Joy that used to be,
Lost, and unforgotten....
Is it then so
Lost beyond mortality?
In death shall I know?
Always I go searching
Through this life’s years
For that Joy ineffable whose bright shadow
lingers
In green unspoiled places.
Humbly glad to catch my breath and clasp
adoring fingers,
Bow to the brief traces —
Ah, who loved Australia
Before the pioneers?
Passionate in majesty,
Benignant, austere,
Who came? Who came?
Who came here?
VICTORIA.
ELSIE COLE.


7 ; 7 : ':! -
'f:
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—-wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
r«E WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents—HOJUAUsa » fHCKCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. OBice—B3-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Bonth Australian Agents: Messrs. EO>EK. SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
PROVED!
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than SO years younger than its morning contemporary.
c ’ rcu .!fh on as heen proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“THE AGE’’
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you wish to stimulate the interest of the
Victorian public in your products, digest these
facts:—
Over 123,000 persons purchase “The Age”
daily (60 per cent. Metropolitan area,
40 per cent. Country districts).
Over 96 per cent, of the copies purchased
are home delivered to subscribers.
Over 95 per cent, of the home deliveries
remain in the house for the womenfolk
during the day,
and
Over 1,000,000 advertisements are pub-
lished in its columns annually,
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation
123,533.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Che Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price lj d.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald" Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
Che mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
carries regularly a far greater total
volume of advertising than any other
newspaper published in Tasmania.
I T is thus, judged hy the use made of
its columns, the most popular
as well as the most powerful of the
newspapers of Tasmania.
pROFIT hy the experience of the
leading national advertisers, and
place '‘The . Mercury” first when
advertising is under consideration.
Average Net Circulation, 20,967.
IT is, undoubtedly, Tasmania’s ablest
and best conducted newspaper.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
P. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square
BW 5179. 4 ’
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
%s
£YES should be
bright and blue
tinged ....
IF the whites of the eyes are light and bright
with just a pleasing tinge of blue, your health
is probably right. But let eyes show the least
sign of discolouration, let them be dull, and it
means bad health—constipation and liver trouble.
Constipation causes poisons to accumulate in.the
system which give rise to biliousness, lack ~ r
energy, indigestion and other ailments.
The best treatment is the corrective action
Beecham’s Pills—a vegetable laxative whi
will surely put you right.
Keep eyes bright by taking
BEECHAMS
WORTH A
A BOX
SUCCESS THROUGH DRESS
The Influence of Clothes in
a Woman s Life
SEE
■■gSt
r a lTw!
OMANS MIRROR
3d. 64 PAGES NOW ON SALE. 3d.
Turkey Diseases and Cures
Color in the Home
A Girl Who Made a King
Complexion Care
A Toddler’s Crocheted Beret
Loss of Property in Hotels
Children and Manners
THIS WEEK’S FREE PATTERN
A COOL SPORTS FROCK.
Qj^
<s® 0
\\ 6 v 3° .:•••", •
#*• ...•• ..-•«%• VS’*'
* • *• *
••• .-<4
•>


8
&
-sc
m\
rA\
\
*s
fes
1
1
: .
MV
m
It
k
INEVITABLY FINE
From its very origin the Dodge Brothers
Six had to be what it actually is ---a value
beyond parallel or precedent. It was built
with the studied care and uncompromising
skill that have made the Dodge name a
symbol for dependability and stamina.
The Dodge Brothers Six has been endowed
with innumerable refinements and more than
a score of mechanical betterments. Out-
standing among these is the exclusive Mono-
Piece Body one of the most important
developments of recent years.
By a wide and commanding margin the
Dodge Brothers Six is the greatest value in
Dodge Brothers history.
tbhjhbjhķ
D OD BEB RDTH ERS SIX
CHRYSLER MOTORS PRODUCT
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W Harden & Johnston, Limited, Sydney
Victoria . . Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane
S.A. Waymouth Motor Company, Limited, Adelaide
W.A, Winterbottom Motor Company, Limited, Perth
Tasmania Co-operative Motors, Ltd., Hobart
■ v -
