

flhjL
WARATMtfEIJCE
Ll_
"VS
HINGED JOINT
m %
Z.f
TKcFcSccl
with Hie
Perfect
// ' p w
§%/'%
ft
//#£?
\
S
Fi pe Proof.
Rust Proof.
Stock Proof. &.
Weatherproof
the event of the wires being
distorted from pressure by a beast
or other cause, immediately the
strain is removed the fence reverts
to its original erect position.
ECONOMY is the watchword that is being sounded
everywhere in these times of financial stress.
Fencing costs are a big item to the man on the land
—how foolish r how economically unsound to go on
erecting the old-fashioned, obsolete type of post and
wire fence! In a few years the whole cost of labor
and materials will have to be met again. THE
WARATAH FENCE, “HINGED JOINT,” LASTS A
LIFETIME.
Summer is on the way —bringing with it bush fires.
If fires sweep your paddocks, will they lay low miles
of fencing because you are still using wooden posts?
Erect a WARATAH “Hinged Joint” Fence with
B.H.P. Star Steel Posts, and damage or destruction
by fire is an impossibility.
The post-and-wire fence does not offer absolute
security. Stock can spread the wires of an ordinary
fence, as the droppers are many feet apart, This
cannot happen with the “Hinged Joint Waratah
Fence, which has pickets or droppers every 12
inches (6 inches on Pig Fences).
Again-—what about resistance to weather and
extremes of climate? All wire in the Waratah Fence
is made from B.H.P. steel and is heavily and evenly
galvanised with pure electrolytic zinc by the hot
process. Thus long life is assured with no danger of
rust. The Waratah “tension curve” gives the fence
greater resilience and prevents the possibility of the
line wires fracturing during frost.
Made in three types: Special Heavy
Fence —Tyeasy High Tensile Fence-
Standard Fence. Special fences are avail-
able for: Cattle, Sheep (2 styles), Lambs
and Pigs. Write for illustrated booklet.
MANUFACTURED BY
RYLANDS BROS. (AUST.) LTD.
WORKS: NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
HEAD OFFICE: 422 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Makers also of the following fencing materials: “Waratah” Wire Netting,
“Waratah” Barbed Wire, and the famous “Waratah” B.H.P. Star Steel Posts.
Sold by leading Merchants and Distributors throughout Australia.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA FROM B.H.P. NEWCASTLE STEEL.
m
5
«
he Qnlui “HINGED JOINT" FgincC made in Australia
The Bulletin
Can We Reduce Our Interest Bill?- — Page 8
Vol. 51.—N0. 2649.
Wednesday, November 19, 1930.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


-THE New Library Catalogue for 1930 is
* now ready, and will be forwarded with
full terms and particulars, post free, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
• LiU
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16p.p. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address ....
S.B. 3H •
SLYSAGHT
o
0
R
AUSTRALIA
DON’T Increase our Overseas Debt
Buy Australian-made goods. Create employ-
ment. Build up a prosperous contented, big
population. Cut down imports. By using
Lysaght’s Galvanized Iron you get the world’s
best, and every penny of the cost remains in
Australia.
LYSAGHT’S
Galvanized Iron
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SPVWXN
/
m
M
iy
m
SAUCE
THE PICNIC
Ho£t Holbrook Says:
“Those chops grill-
ed in the open air
over a bush fire!
Nothing more appetis-
ing when served with
my Worcestershire
Sauce.”
y
r
(for/
- 4
it
iS %
s»
M
ntc
SHIRTS
PYJAMAS & SOFT COLLARS
For Comfort, Cut and Economy
TAKING your ease is an easy matter when wearing
“LUVISCA” SHIRTS, SOFT COLLARS, and PYJAMAS.
The beautifully smooth fabric and the fine details of design
are there for this especial purpose. Every garment is trim, stylish,
and finished to perfection. See the many tasteful colourings and
patterns available; the most steady wear and regular washing
>vill not harm them. Moderately priced and highly durable*
MjLD BY ALL LEADING STORES.
LOOK
FOR
THE
REGIS-
TERED
TAB.
-
n
rtaULDS
cOU
EabriS
THOROLD, HARPER
AND CO. PTY., LTD.,
308 Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
181 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
The Red Page
A Priest on War Books
I had this morning a letter from Adelaide
saying: “Do the English people really be-
lieve the terrible things that are said in
the war-books about us Aussies?”
To get to the point at once; people are
by nsw pretty clear about those war-books.
There are only about two words in the
English language that can’t be printed in
all their few letters; and when a war-book
comeg out everyone begins by wondering
whether Now At Last the author, publisher
and printer will have risked them. So
they buy them to see. This is very babyish;
but plenty of people are never much else
save babies.
Next, the Australian episode occurred in
one book only—honestly, by now I forget its
name. It occupied about three lines, and has
formed the opinion of not one reader. Pos-
sibly, in the towns of Salisbury Plain, or
jn the neighborhood of big Australian hos-
pitals, an “opinion” may have been formed
about what “Australians are like.” I don’t
knotv. I haven’t been back to those neigh-
bor'oods. But believe me —and once more,
how babyish people are (and I love babies)
—what will remain in most memories is
the Australian hat. You could all but make
r* philosophy of uniforms. The kilt came
in an easy first; air-force uniforms came
next by a length or two; the Aussie hat
was a valuable asset—better than the
Maoriland pointed one. But, hoisting our-
selves out of this morass, I would say that
the Australians are best remembered in
Scotland, which (I think) was where they
were happiest; and those memories have
nothing to do with uniforms or unusually
high pay, bait with character, which is what
matters. They were likeable and were liked.
As for war-books. It is certain that, after
a slump, film-producers first, and then pub-
lishers, found that war-themes were once
more appetising. Why? I think, because
younger cinema-fans enjoy violence, and
are pleased to see that men rather like
themselves (and not too distant people, like
Napoleonic warriors or even Chicago
toughs) may even now be engaged in knock-
ing people about. I have, been assured,
again and again, that it is younger people,
full of affection for fighting (possibly if the
fighting is being done by someone else—you
blow off steam vicariously), and not —em-
phatically not—the men who actually went
through the war, and not the technical
pacifist (I am a pacifist, but not a bit tech-
nically so), who enjoy and buy the films
and the books.
Hence I think the authors of most of
them are making a big mistake. Of course,
it they are out to make money as best they
can, there is no problem. If they find that
that sort of thing pays, and if they want
pay, .that is a way to get it. I would only
ask that they should not suggest that they
are proving anything. Again, if the books
are written by sensitive and indignant men,
who have been through Hell, and have come
out at the other end of it (though I’d
always understood that that was just what
.you couldn’t do—but no matter), one says:
“All right. Sorry. You were the wrong
man to have been put through that. You
are realist up to the point that you can
reach—and believe me, you haven’t reached
very far, even in the line of horribleness.
Now turn your attention to the horrors of
peace, and get some perspective, please.”
But if these books are written by men who
claim that they have seen horrors, and that
that was all that was to be seen, save per-
haps monotony, or odds and ends of humor
—I say that they haven’t begun to appre-
ciate human nature.
First, they are just the sort of man to
whom no other man would be able to
begin to display the more secret things that
he has in himself. Every man has such
things—even (or especially) Australians and
their kin. Then what these authors never
will realise is the co-existence of contradic-
tories in,one man. A man may be brutal,
and spiritual; obscene, and half a visionary;
cruel, savage (anyway, under pressure) and
tender-hearted; fleshy and most heavenly,
animal and God-like, because God-inhabited.
Sgme of my best friends shudder to remem-
ber the things that they have done, and
even (after a while) forget (though I re-
member) that they have done them. Have
the “war-novels” got down to those secrecies
of human nature? I doubt it. As a rule, I
am sure they haven’t. People realise this,
in the rough and inarticulately. So they
don’t really bother much about them.
I was often told, in Australia, that Aus-
tralians were sensitive. I would have been
sorry if they hadn’t been. But I too am
sensitive I don’t want Australians to
think that Englishmen or Scots or anyone
else think this or that about them, because
bits have been hoicked out of unimportant
novels (however sincere be the ex-soldiers
who have written them, always assuming
that they were, properly speaking, soldiers),
which represent Australians (or Canadians
—or Italians, now then!) in an ugly light.
You have got to go deeper than these
writers who see with so much accuracy one
set of details discernible on a surface.
(Rev.) C. C. MARTINDALE.
A Writer's Plea
It is not often that a writer of novels goes
cut of his way to hunt for a ruthless critic,
with the object not of eating but of embrac-
ing him! Vance Palmer lately appeared in
th&t handsome role in London. He told
“John o’ London” that what Australia lacks
more than anything is critics like Edward
Garnett and H. L. Mencken. I have heard
prayers like that before, and sometimes they
have been answered. For the sake of the
thin-skinned creatures that are Australian
writers as a whole, I hope this one will not
be answered while I am alive to shudder
at the spectacle. A Mencken! What a
time he’d havel
A visiting German journalist put this to
me the other day. He wanted to get in
touch with Australian literature. I reeled
him off the index to Mr. Green’s “Out-
line.” He at once fainted. “Spare me
days!” he cried (or German equivalent of
same) ; “I have not time to read all that!
I want to read what will compare with
world literature. Only that much.” Well,
personally, I don’t favor the better-best-
betterest method of comparative criticism;
but just to try to see where we really did
stand I made out lists of the 20 best poets
I knew, of the 20 best novelists I knew, of
the 20 best dramatists I knew. And 10,
Ben Adhem—otherwise the Australian
writer—didn’t even lead the rest. As a
matter of fact, I got down to No. 20 in each
line, and I couldn’t even hear him coo-eeing.
And here is a chap who asks for a Mencken;
who wants someone who “will seize on what
is original and dynamic apd teach the public
to value it.” The trouble would be finding
something to keep the aforesaid Mencken
occupied after he had written that—shall
we say?—half-column. On second thought
perhaps that trouble would not arise. Being
a Mencken, and therefore a man with a
certain amount of genius, the answer to
Vance Palmer’s prayer would write his
half-column in praise of the original and
dynamic, and then realise that what Aus-
tralia wanted was not someone to appre-
ciate that sort of thing, but someone to do
it. And proceed to do it. There is our
trouble. We are a race of leaners. We
would rather lean up against a present
debt than work for a credit; rather lean
up against a lot of overdone ballyhoo than
work to have a literature; rather put it on
to an absent critic than produce a critic
in the only and the certain way of produc-
ing critics—by creating, that they might
value.
The truth is that our literature is veiy
thin indeed. In the turning of a couple
of hundred years it is difficult to see a line
of it lasting. Our ballyhoo artists will strive
to keep much of it alive while they have a
breath, to the detriment of literature, which
is an evolutionary process; a going forward
with a glance over the shoulder, not a
standing in gaping admiration before some
stacks of primitive junk I introduced my
German visitor to the work of eight or
ten leading Australian writers. I sincerely
trust he is no Mencken.
CECIL MANN.
The Misguided Friend
I am not sure if Mr. Burton, who attacked
my review of “Australia” (R.P. 12/11/’3O),
is disingenuous or the possessor of a
muddled mind. Anyhow, his article calls
for an answer in the interest not only of
fair criticism but of Professor Hancock’s
excellent book. I never said or implied that
the professor was a “bad Australian.” I
mentioned his expressed ambition (“to write
of the Australians as an Englishman or a
Frenchman would write of his countrymen
living in a previous century”), quoted some
of his criticisms, and endorsed them. The
objection was not to what he said, but to
what he might have said, and didn’t—and
the translation of nil admirari was never
“to be hostile.” His by no means dis-
creditable reluctance to express admiration
for Australia was explained; and it was
the right explanation, and vital to an honest
interpretation of his book.
Our athletic supermen, airmen and
soldiers were cited as an example of the
kind of phenomena On which he might have
touched. To this Mr. Burton says:—
This was the first time that most of us had heard
of them [our supermen], but apparently they are
our athletes like Bradman, or even our billiardists
like Lindrum. If athletes, even extraordinary ones,
are supermen, then a superman means nothing. As
well might we include the cranks who make non-
stop dancing records, or who in the U.S.A. shatter
all figures for the consumption of “hot-dogs”....
A professor from any other British or European uni-
versity would have had at least enough sense of
values to ignore our athletic supermen.
There was no “apparently” about it. I
named Bradman and Lindrum—Lindrum in
connection with the opinion of Professor
J. B. S. Haldane (world-famous as a bio-
logist, which Professor Hancock isn’t), that
{Red Page continued on page 5 .)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—more than a slogan, a law at Anthony Horderns’.
Carry Your Home with You
when Motoring
Every Motorist should have a Tent—and everyone with an eye to economy should purchase
it at Anthony Horderns’. With one of these you are completely independent of Hotels,
and you have a snug Home whether it rains, hails or shines.
T-tf
»SM
* rar*M
m
rv»
m...
i,IK
’ ZGm~=&'' *" / \ "i'u I Tjfv l ''"' , « !// .M’/V
This Splendid “Marquee” Auto Tent
ranges from as low as £lO/17/6
This Tent, as here illustrated, is very roomy, and enables one to walk around
in comfort. There is a calico division which provides two distinct rooms, and
the front can be psed as a verandah in fine weather, by taking three poles
from sides of tent (see inset). The roof is of waterproof Birkmyre.
Complete with ropes attached, Bft. centre pole, 1 2 6ft. telescopic poles, and
24 small and 1 6 large galvanised tent pegs. Also tent and pole bags.
Size, 12ft. x 12ft., with Boz.
Size, 15ft. x 15 ft., with Boz.
Size, 12ft. x 12ft., with 10oz.
Size, 15 ft. x 15 ft., with 10oz.
Size, 12ft. x 12ft., with 1 Ooz.
Size, 15ft. x 15ft., with 10oz.
White Duck Walls. Price .
White Duck Walls. Price .
White Duck Walls. Price .
White Duck Walls. Price .
Green Duck Walls. Price .
Green Duck Walls. Price .
£lO/17/6
£l2/15-
£ll/15/-
£l4/10/-
£ll/15/-
£l4/10/-
All measurements are less hems and seams. Special sizes made to order.
Important.—When erecting Tent, always half-hitch side ropes to poles.
Other Low Priced Tents and Shelters
\
5
% yr
v.i, w -vrv,4?«. wi*
'Ju
Tent Above is £5/15/-
It has a khaki Birkmyre waterproof roof
and Boz. duck walls. 6ft. 6in. high—
walls sloping to 3ft. 6in. Size of room,
9ft. x 9ft. Calico curtain between car
and tent. Complete with ropes, pegs
and collapsible poles. Price, £5/15/-
Or with 1 soz. duck roof. Price, £4/15/-
You can ’Phone
Us Day or Night
Your Order
Right round the clock
Anthony Horderns’ will
serve you. Just ’phone us at
any time—leave your order
and it will be promptly
despatched. Dial M 2401.
Model Above, 59(6
The “Quick-Camper” motor lean-to tent can be
erected in a very few minutes. It is 6ft. 6in. high
with walls sloping to 3ft. 6in. Size of room, 9ft.
x 9ft. 6ft. flap goes over hood only and fastens
to car with ropes. Calico curtain between car
and tent. Made from Boz. duck. Complete with
ropes, pegs and collapsible poles. Price, 59/6
Car Covers for Improvised Garages or Tents
Ijo
Z'\ IV
- J
' *».
Ranging from 16/11
These afford protection against sun, dust and weather. In strong Calico.
We recommend quality DX to the motorist who cannot garage his car.
Although not waterproof it is practically rainproof.
Carriage paid on these covers.
Wept., Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Auto tents delivered free
city and suburbs only. Carriage paid on Calico Car Covers.)
Anthony Horderns’
(THE SENIOR STORE),
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS. LIMITED,
SYDNEY.
Postal Address.
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


A
m
i
%
i
■
A
£
■UGH
aitIWNGLE
■HVD
■
41
I
t.
v
V
H
IM ft
Fibred with strength, shod with toughness,
built through and through for rugged
endurance and maximum mileage,
the Perdriau Tyre must give lowest
running cost as well as greatest comfort.
The
Tyre
STURDY
AUSTRALIAN
SP 1.FP.0
Wm,
WM
'MM
'//"'"MM
""""'/ft
vmm.
'mm.
i I
m w
1
■'MM,
w.
'MMMMM,


BUY BOOKS
BOUND POETS.
Schools about to purchase Prizes are invited to inspect a wonderful selection
which we are offering at Special Clearnce Prices.
For instance. 15/- Padded Leather offered for 10/-
A splendid display of Christmas Stationery, Christmas Cards, Calendars.
The JBookstall Packet of Xmas and New Year Cards. 12 Beautiful Designs.
Price 1/6. Postage 4d.
We Specialise in Smokers’ Requisites for Presentation.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
“a man like Lindrum probably displays as
much cerebral activity as a higher mathe-
matician, and has as large a brain.”
In speculating about our output of Lin-
drums, Kingsford Smiths, Bradmans, etc.,
which is remarkable considering the size of
the population and the fact that our be-
ginnings were unfortunate, I remarked that
our alleged high standard of living was not
responsible—that “it had been shown to be
more or less mythical.” Whereupon the
astonishing Mr. Burton, forgetting that
athletes are no better than cranks, and
should be ignored by those with a sense of
values
Our feats of athletic prowess do call" for admira-
tion, but they seem to be explained easily enough by
our high .standard of living, which is far from
mythical.
(He allowed the climate a share, and “our
love of sport, and social structure,” but
evidently believes our standard of living to
be the principal factor.) Professor Han-
cock plainly has a poor opinion of our
standard of living, and it was healthier w;hen
he wrote his book than it is now. In a
chapter dealing, with the subject he quotes
the Commonwealth Statistician, whose
figures suggest that “the condition of the
‘average’ Australian working man, if not
quite so happy as that of the American, is
happier than that of his English and Euro-
pean fellows,” and proceeds to tear them to
pieces:—
It is too much to believe that the citizen of Mel-
bourne is more than three times better off than the
citizen of Rome or Vienna. In these index numbers
there is room for all sorts of errors. First, they are
based solely on food;. but men need more than
food. Secondly, different people desire different foods
and derive different benefits from the same foods.
Nor can index numbers measure the higher satis-
factions. The citizen of Munich (we may be per-
mitted some exaggeration) is content to hear Beet-
hoven ; the citizen of Melbourne is content to hear
broadcast jazz, and both are satisfied.
Latest figures show clearly that our stan-
dard of living is what I said it was. Our
£1 is now equal in purchasing power to 13s.
in England. In England a skilled worker
earns about £3 2s. a week; here he is lucky
to earn £5 10s., and so on down the scale.
Where is our advantage? The last bulletin
of the Commonwealth Statistician discloses
that in the first, half of this year we lost
12,000 inhabitants—97oo British and nearly
all fugitives from our standard of living.
Finally, there is Mr. Burton’s charge that
I wronged Professor Hancock by heading
my article “An Oxonian on Australia”:—
Professor Hancock is not an anti-Australian be-
cause he has been to Oxford.
Of course not. Yet most people who
know Oxford, and read his book, will agree
that the most enlightening way of summing
it up is to call it an Oxonian’s book. When
you read Professor Hancock—clear-headed,
judicial, scrupulously polite, a little derisive,
a little superior, always careful to avoid
vulgar enthusiasms—you can almost hear
a good don talking. He has the Oxford
voice, which is nothing like the Australian
voice.
JOHN DALLEY.
A Conan Doyle Biography
Dear Bulletin, —As I am preparing a
biography of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle for
early publication, may I ask any readers of
your journal who have letters or any infor-
mation of biographical interest to be good
enough to communicate with me with a
view to granting me permission to make use
of such material as may be desirable? Any
letters forwarded would be promptly re-
turned.—Yours, etc., W. H. Hosking, 53
Lexham Gardens, Kensington, London, W.B.
Recipe for a Bestseller
Memoirs oj Marie Corelli (Alston Rivers;
Robertson and Mullens) is the work of
Bertha Vyver, who served as the famous
novelist’s lady’s companion for upwards
of 30 years. There is irony in the thought
that nobody else has thought the biography
worth writing. Yet Marie in her day was
a world force second only to Tolstoy. Mil-
lions awaited her works as pieces of pro-
gressive revelation. Meredith shed tears
over them. Anglican priests used them as
texts for their sermons and fashionable Lon-
don flocked to hear. They were translated
into Gujerati. Ella Wheeler Wilcox came
especially from America to meet the author
and fell at her feet, of whose diminutive
size Marie was inordinately proud. Edward
Prince of Wales, that king of courtiers, went
out of his way to remark on the charming
smallness of her hands, of which she was
equally aware. One of the most cherished
ambitions of newspaper editors was to
obtain her portrait, which she resojutely
withheld from the public gaze. A young
man fired five shots in her garden merely to
bring her out so that he could feast his
eyes on her. She was the object of a pas-
sionate religious cult, and when during the
war she was charged in a county court with
food hoarding, it was for millions as if the
heavens had collapsed. Scientists as emi-
nent as R,. A. Gregory corresponded with
her on her theories about the future of elec-
tricity and other branches of science. Critics
argued furiously about her genius. When
she moved to Stratford-on-Avon with her
gondola and Italian gondolier, only a few
unpopular cynics thought it funny, not to
say shocking, that she should take Shaks-
peare under her protection. Finally W. M.
Hughes found time in the intervals of con-
ducting the greatest war in history to keep
up a correspondence with her, in which each
addressed the other as if they were public
meetings.
What were the reasons for Marie’s amaz-
ing popularity? At this point we call as
witness for the prosecution that eminent
psycho-analyist M.G.S. If Marie was not
the result of an Electra complex, present
writer is prepared to eat his hat. Miss
Corelli’s mother died when she was young,
and her father brought her up. A passion-
ate adoration for this evidently amiable
and liberal-minded man appears in all her
references to him. She grew into woman-
hood—or so one opines—with this father’s
image as her notion of the ideal man.
Naturally in this sadly realistic world she
found nobody to correspond with her
romantic hopes. Persons without talent who
find themselves in this case are apt to
become neurotics. Marie, it is presumed,
poured all her disappointment into her
books. She decided she had a psychic call
to reform an extremely wicked world. In-
spired by a belief in the holiness of this
mission which moved her to utter a prayer
every time she sat down to write, she sent
forth work after work whose monotonous
theme was that men and women are not
what they ought to be, that marriage was
not for decent people until it became a
union of “angel with angel and god with
god.” She “had a dread of shattering dis-
illusion, when man and woman awoke from
their enchantment and found the angel-
aspect turned to clay.” In short, she took
the veil while remaining in the world.
If the war had come earlier, Marie might
have found a.n outlet there—she became
an ardent spy-chaser as it was. Previous to
that event she found sufficient release in the
shrill denouncing of a society so hideously
imperfect, so sensual, so unchaste and
degenerate that it is a wonder it has sur-
vived. The author of “The Sorrows of
Satan” and “The Sins of Society” never
grew up. She was entirely without humor,
. except for a childlike love of fun, so she
completely failed to understand the annoy-
ance her patronage of Shakspeare aroused.
She had a flair for picking up odds and
ends of other people’s ideas and weaving
them into a romance, but she seriously
believed that her electrical theory of the
universe, which revealed that she did not
know the difference between a volt and an
ohm, was a real contribution to scientific
research. She got boundless satisfaction
out of the belief that her prophecies about
airships somehow brought those phenomena
to pass, and she earnestly informed a Brit-
ish general in the Boer War that she was
seeing military operations befqye they
occurred. Incidentally, the General replied
assuring her that he had a similar faculty
and used it in his strategy, which helps to
explain a lot of puzzling things about the
conduct of that campaign.
The foregoing more or less explains why
Miss Corelli wrote as she did. It does not
explain why an enormous public found a
passionate interest in the result. If the
two factors were equally well understood
it might be possible to produce writers of
best-sellers by auto-suggestion and main-
tain a public for them by inoculation; in
which case the book trade would be saved.
M.G.S.
A Satchel of Books
Essays and Addresses, by H. Y. Braddon
(Angus # and Robertson). Pretty well all
these papers fall under the second heading.
They are controversial, didactic; based on
much more solid foundations than the essay
proper ever boasts. Generally speaking,
they are historical surveys of such things as
the Olympic Games, the French “Assignat”
issues, the Guilds (in comparison with our
trade-unions), the Australian wool industry
and world peace. Downright, straightfor-
ward thinking, and no funny business.
Children's Books. —Two interesting addi-
tions are “Ivalulu and the Hare,” by Frank
Worthington (Collins) ; “Alice and Thomas
and Jane,” by Enid Bagnold (Heinemann).
The binding of the first is such a crib on
Skipper’s “The Meeting Pool” that they look
the same book on the shelves. It rather
resembles that child classic, too, in being a
collection of stories of jungle animals —
African this time. It is packed with tickle-
some pen-and-ink illustrations. “Alice” and
co. are more civilised, but tlie book is de-
cidedly clever youngsters’ stuff.
Morgan in Jamaica , by Philip Lindsay
(Fanfrolico), is a family affair. There are
lines, “Morgan’s Night,” by Jack Lind-
say, reproductions of paintings by Raymond
Lindsay, and jthe essay on Morgan by Philip
Lindsay. The reproductions are the least
satisfactory part of the joint effort. In
them virile paintings are converted into
patches of ink. The poem is full of the
Jack Lindsay vigor and robustness, but
is not that writer at his best. The essay is
a different story. It is an arresting piece of
work. It catches Morgan in Jamaica when
the devil was in his lungs, trying to fight,
that devil out with rum, bragging or think-
ing of the days before England’s cursed fogs
gave him the phthisis. This Morgan is no
wooden buccaneer of history ; he is a breath-
ing (and coughing) man of life. The descrip-
tion of the attack on Panama, when Morgan
and his ragged, starving handful fought the
Dons for two hours and drove them back, is
convincing:—
Two hours of thickest battle before the Dons gave
way and scuttled back behind the thick walls of
Panama. But the buccaneers did not follow. They
were too tired. Now that the fight was over, weari-
ness seemed to hit them a violent physical blow,
and they fell where they were, resting their exhausted
limbs, still quivering with the fever of battle, upon
the dead and wounded.
Morgan realised that if he let them rest too long
the almost sensuous relief would grow too strong to
break, so he suddenly gave the order to march, lifted
on high again those bloody strips of cloth nailed to
poles, roused them with drum and fife, blew out
the shattering blast of trumpets, and slowly those
scarecrows rose like corpses at the last trump, red
with the blood of Dons. They wiped their swords
and knives, cocked guns and pistols, and with
gritted teeth made the advance on the walled city
of Panama.
The essay slackens before the end, but
gathers force again, and on the whole is a’
highly-colored, engaging fragment that leaves
a wish for a complete life of Morgan by the
same writer.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice ( except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Ralph D.: Queer mixture; but we liked
the allusion to our enemy’s “lousy hordes” best.
... .A.C.W.: There’s a picture in “Futility” ; but
the end falls away M. T. Pockets: Ours are but-
toned... .Mary L.: Just not well enough done to
carry the shop-soiled thought. .. .Ina U.: Get it out
of your dear little head that the purpose of poetry
is to make others scratch theirs... .E.McM.: Thanks.
H.G.H.: And to y0u.... Patrick D.: You seem
to be a gentle lover. But even love couldn’t forgive
a line like “While they helped Australia financially
along”... .E.M.T.: Much obliged... .A.C.C.: Thanks ;
but we don’t reprint.... 1.L.: That “fortunes in
Chancery” illusion has been exploded hundreds of
times, but all to no purpose. .. .A.M.F.: Unmoved
by the hall porter’s passion for lodger in kim
L.D.: Piquant in patches, but patches too few....
J.H.E.: Would stand a chance in a crisper form.
. ...W.S.: A heap of improbabilities... .R.P.G.: In-
terest dwindled after rent collector appeared....
S.M.: Make your next heroine speechless... .V. 8.:
Three adjectives to every noun is overdoing it.
... .L.E.L.: Idea deserves more careful handling....
A.H.W.: Bill was an also-ran... .A.H.N.: Only worth
a par G.P.M.: Failed, but not discreditably
Patriot: Even if there were any distinction in having
three ex-Agents-General knocking around, Queensland
would have to share it with Westralia and possibly
other States... .Nestor: You assert dogmatically that
“old civilians caused the war.” But did they ? The
verdict of history will probably be that Germany
forced the war on the other nations, the military ele-
ment in Germany rather than the civilian one... .V.G.:
Your rhymes are good, but the Bradman ode is a bit.
belated. As for “Old Style,” cricketers didn’t wear
those hats 50 years ago; they went out decades before
that.... Carnarvon: Thanks, but can’t really find
space for “a weekly lecturette dealing with some
phase of child study.” Padre: But what you pro-
pose wouldn’t be “a real federation” 5.R.8.:
Contents noted, but it came too late... .M.C.: Not
suitable for Australian consumption... .I.Y : Told
more realistically it might do. Have another go at
it....J.R.: Twentieth-century Enoch Arden was
shelved P.H.: Not new....J.G.: As cheerful as
a coroner’s inquest... .E.N.V.: Change of bait
observed; still only nibbling... .F.M.C.: Left us
unmoved. .. .H.F.W.: You could squeeze an Abo. par.
out of it J.F.: The fleecing shanty-keeper has
been' overdone.... South Yarra: Not in the market
for “a series of 12 letters dealing with the economic
situation”... .C.C.H.: Not without merit, but
too thin a plot C.V.T.: Pretty well told, but
the girl’s action is forced. . . .D.11.H.: None this year.
Send us your address if you want a direct reply.
. ...A.L.R.: The echo of Kipling is too clear....
Fan : Dull moralising. .. .K.K.: Not well enough done ;
and well worth doing we 11... .T.A.F.: Don’t agree
with you. The optimist doesn’t shut his eyes to the
dangers; he sees them; and says he’ll beat them.
The other chap is merely a silly fool who hasn’t a
hope of beating what he refuses to see. .. . F.M.:
Try a paper with a nursery column... .M.E.P.: Neat
tribute to an old friend, the track: —
Like the staunchest comrade a man could have,
Through e’en the most pitiless winter blast
It has proved itself, as a pal must prove,
By bringing me safe to a pub at last.
. ...P.J.H.: When stamps don’t accompany MSS. it
is taken as a hint that the writer prefers oblivion.
So, if unaccepted, the effort is destroyed... .George
H.: One too weak, other too strong... .E.Q.: We
liked the haughty bridge; nothing else... .Juanita:
Nearly good; a bit prosy... .F.McC.: A new reader
said no this time. Too slight... .Max W.: You’ve
condensed it all into this brilliant quartet or
whatever it is :
To win with such a heavy weight
Is a feat we must applaud
A stone above the othtrs, sir,
And yet the champion scored.
.... Viau : Far too wordy. See if you can’t put it
into one-third the space. And don’t crowd your
lines.,.. Tom P.: Impossible to refer to pars. If
they suit, they’re in; if they don’t, they’re 0ut....
Norshor: No use for mere lamentations. They’ll get
us nowhere. ... Bo K.: Good old Cup' idea ! See you
again next year !. .. .E.M.H.: Like most “Buck UjS!”
•verses, very depressing... .John DeL.: Needs a lot
of sandpapering... .E.H.: Accept your assurance that
the sun is hiding behind the cloud. But it might
do us more good to remember that there’s a son of
Israel waiting there, too.. . .R.M.: Undistinguished.
Sandpick: More ditto E.D. J.: “Toiling for
Gammon’s sake”? That a new name for old friend
Mammon?... .P.M.: “Summertime” too slender....
F.J.G.: Might be something interesting in that
theory if you produced a few facts to support it.
. ...C.A.M.: Fearful effort to transplant “A Mid-
summer’s Night Dream” to Billygoat Gully... .
H.R.T.: A rather promising trial ga110p.... W.N.:
No plot worth talking about, and the talk isn’t
worth recording... .L.R.: Quiller-Couch got ahead of
you with that parson-stealing girl... .8.H.: “A sad
story of sin and sorrow jn the slums.” No, thank
you!... .F.S.C.: Put it Away for a few months;
then try it again G.M.: An old and dreary yarn
made drearier... .S.L.: Don’t understand why the
poet turned back when the bird sang. Was he a
Byak?... .L.F.F.: Aldous Huxley is an Englishman,
36 years old, and was educated at Eton and OxforS.
Michael Arlen changed his name by deed poll from
Dikran Kouyoumdjian; he was born in Bulgaria, of
Armenian parents, in 1895, becoming a naturalised
British subject in 1922.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.K.K.: You’re not out of swaddling clothes....
B. : Dreadful. .. .R.M. :* Try a few in ink
D.A.K.: Still uneven and untidy. .. .8.L.: You write
better than yajj draw.... H.W.: She doesn’t fascinate.
T.M.: You’ll have to learn to graduate your
linework F.S.: Spiked the artilleryman’s guns.
... .G.W.: Not while the lady is built on those lines.
... .R.G.: A chestnut... .S.W.: Appalling. .. .W. 8.:
Joggly lines... .F.M.: Outlandish piece of work....
K.L.D.: A piling up of indistinct lines. .. .S.T.J. :
You made a forced landing... .11. W.: A poor joke....
C. : Your South Sea Islanders look as if they
came from the ’Loo C.J.M.: You’ve let the pen
run amok and your humor has dried up... .E. 8.:
Racecourse tout is a crumpled and miserable exhibit.
. ...G.T.: You need someone to take you in hand.
. ...S.F.D.: Ponderous puns and bristly lines....
H.H.L.: Seems to be a feud between your hand
and your pen W.S.S.: Cheerless R.A.8.: No
encores F.Y.: Don’t hurry over them and you
might do better.


9
0
/
jaaav Hfll
m
mWmmmi
* 4
: .
_
m
MS
Bfli
■
■
-
IS
% • ••<
' ''j
din
■
m
jusi
\
a
■l
m
■m
gyi*
h jkl
i
■
I
US


Vol. 51. —No. 2649.
November 19, 1930.
GENERAL DE PRESH DISTRIBUTES THE IRON CROSS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 2/y George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; •Phone 87971.
Victoria: IVi-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westiialia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d. ;
8 months, 7s.
To ANv address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.,
<: months, 1.7 s. fir/.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, Few Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d. Elsewhere: sd.
HOW PROSPERITY WAS
RESTORED IN THE ’NINETIES.
Those who look for a rapid recovery in
Australia are justified in dwelling a good
deal upon the recuperative powers of Aus-
tralia. What it did in the ’nineties was very
astonishing; and there are valuable lessons
for the present in the history of that period.
How did Australia then so quickly win back
its prosperity?
The crash of ’92 differed in some respects
from the present crisis; but there are many
points of resemblance. The cause of the
trouble 40 years ago was heavy borrowing
by banks and other financial institutions
from abroad, followed successively by a
heavy fall in the price of commodities, un-
easiness abroad as to the value of Aus-
tralian securities, and inability to realise
and repay the debt. It had one great
advantage over the present trouble: it was
more obvious. The banks, building societies
and loan cos. were chiefly affected, and one
after the other they closed their doors to
depositors. There was no mistaking the
meaning of that: there was no call for an
Otto Niemeyer to diagnose that disease.
For the same reason there was no delay
in setting about applying remedies. There
was no Frank Anstey to talk about the
blessings of inflation: Australia knew it
had had too much inflation already. Instead
it got down to hard productive work.
And circumstances favored it, as circum-
.stances have a habit of doing in such cases.
The land had treated thousands very badly,
and prices were still very low. The average
London price of wheat per quarter (eight
bushels) in 1891 was 375.; by 1894 it was
down to 225. lOd. Nevertheless there was a
great increase of settlement by men who
believed that, if the land did not offer a for-
tune, it at least offered a livelihood and inde-
pendence, along with fair chances of some-
thing better. Between 1881 and 1891 the
area under cultivation in N. S. Wales had
widened only from 578,000 to 846,000 acres;
between 1891 and 1899 there was an increase
to 2,441,000 acres. Twice as much new land
was brought under cultivation in this one
State in those eight years as in the previous
hundred years. For the entire Common-
wealth the growth between 1881 and 1891
was 876,000 acres; in the next eight it was
3,301,000 acres. Of the total area of N. S.
Wales in 1891 only .44 of 1 per cent, was
under crop; in 1899 there was 1.23 per cent.
In Victoria, thanks mainly to the opening
up of the Mallee, the proportion rose from
3.76 to 5.61 per cent.
Such a gruelling did the country get
through drought, rabbits and overstocking
in the late ’eighties and early ’nineties that
Australia’s recovery could be little helped
by the pastoral industry. Actually the
number of sheep in Australasia fell from
124,547,000 in 1891 to 93,645.000 in 1899.
But, although the pastoralist could not
make his eaten-out country carry more
stock, he could and did make it carry better
stock. So the weight of wool per sheep,
which in N. S. Wales had been as little
as 3.281 b. in 1861 and 5.741 b. in 1891, was
increased in the next eight years to 6.531 b.
Meantime the frozen and preserved meat
export trade was steadily expanded. From
Queensland frozen and chilled meat of the
value of £161,345 had been sent away in
1891; in 1899 the figure had reached
£833,733, while the export of preserved
meats from the same State had moved
from £59,032 to £383,899. The movements in
the other States, though not so large, were
equally satisfactory.
But the mining industry contributed more
than the pastoral industry to the quick
return of prosperity. Though Broken Hill
had been raked of its richest ores in the
four years 1890-94, and though the zinc-
bearing sulphide ores were still refractory,
the export of silver-lead from N. S. Wales
never fell below £1,640,000 in the following
six years. Wallaroo and Moonta were still
prolific producers of copper; Mt. Lyell had
just begun its helpful career —not much
encouraged at the outset by the fact that
in June, 1894, the metal was worth in
London only £4l 10s. per ton. But that
wa,s low-water mark. By September, 1899, the
price was back to £77. Gold, however, was
the largest contributor not only to the
statistics of the period but to its psychology.
In the decade of the 'eighties the Australian
production had fallen to £49,216,000. In
1891-1900 the swift development of the
Westralian fields swelled the aggregate for
the decade to £89,999,000; and in the next
10 years the total was an amazing
£142,009,109 —which was 40 per cent, more
than the total of the golden 'fifties, when
Ballarat and Bendigo and all the other
stoned diggings were at their height.
h urther it was not to large things only
that attention was given. In 1891 the
export of butter from N. S. Wales to
Britain amounted to 381,0001 b. By 1899
it was 7,006.0001 b. South Australia added
more than 50 per cent, to her area under
vines, carrying the total from 12,314 acres
in '9l to 19,438 acres in '99. Queensland’s
area under sugar-cane was even more
Hrgely augmented: it went from 50,948
acres to 110,657 acres. Under orchards and
gardens there were 112,427 acres in the Com-
monwealth in 1891; eight years later there
were 161,105 acres.
Meantime, with the help of State tariffs,
not always effective but generally more pro-
tective than they had been, there was,
especially in the later 'nineties, very con-
siderable increase in factory employment.
After the crash there was, as there is now,
a serious, shrinkage. Hands employed in
Victoria had totalled 57,432 in 1889; in
1893 the figure shrank to 39,473. By 1899
it was 60,070. In N. S. Wales there was
a movement from 38,918 (1893) to 55,646
(1899); in the other colonies from 13,369
(1893) to 27,200 (1899).
It is significant that during the period
of distress no attempt was made to increase
Government revenue in order to provide
employment on public works. The public
revenue per inhabitant of the Common-
wealth had been exactly £8 in 1890, and it
was £7 16s. 2d. in 1891—they were the two
boom years. In 1894 and 1895, two very
black years, it was £6 19s. and £6 19s. 3d.
respectively. In N. S. Wales the gradual
reduction was from £8 11s. Id. in 1891 to
£7 Is. 6d. in 1896. The whole purpose of the
policies pursued during that period was the
increase of production. It was realised that
relief works, instead of leading the country
out of its troubles, only led further into
them by throwing a double burden on to
such production as there was. Whether we
shall so quickly emerge from our present
difficulties depends mainly upon the period
it takes us to learn that lesson.
CAN WE REDUCE OUR INTEREST
BILL?
Labor's grievance is that it is being asked
to bear the whole burden of our economic
distress. This, of course, is not true. As
The Bulletin has shown, nine-tenths of
the companies listed by the Stock Ex-
changes have had to cut down their divi-
dends or pass them altogether. In many
cases there have been heavy losses of capi-
tal as well. Those individual shareholders
who have been forced to sell have had to
submit to cuts of anything up to 80 per
cent.; it is a rare case in which it has not
been 50 per cent. Outside the ambit of the
Stock Exchange there have been equal
shrinkages. The trading firm whose profits
are one-half of wdiat they were two years
ago is exceptional; and so is the property-
owner whose returns are not beginning to
have a pinched look.
And yet there is one group of invest-
ments whose earnings have suffered little if
at all. The investor whose money is on
first mortgage has thus far had to bear
hardly any loss of either principal or inter-
est; and the investor in public securities
has not had to bear any. To what extent
can that be justified?
No two investments are quite the same.
There are investments to suit all tastes and
circumstances. The man who is prepared
to take large risks with his capital turns
to the mining-share market. He knows
that he may lose all; but he looks to an
occasional prize to put him on the winning
side in the long run. He is entitled to all
the prizes there are; and those critics who
pick out a Broken Hill North or a Zinc
Corporation and hold it up as an example
of labor-exploitation overlook that but for
these rare successes there would be no
money available for mining at all. From
the gamble in mining the risks shade off;
as the hazard is reduced, so is the return;
not only the interest return, but the chance
of an addition to capital value. At this
end of the scale we reach the first mortgage,
secured by a transfer of real estate, and
bonds or stocks issued by Governments
and other public authorities on the security
of their revenues and powers of taxation.
The point at issue is whether under any
circumstances investments in these classes
ought to be looked to for assistance over
a period of great economic stress.
Rightly or wrongly we have adopted the
principle of a basic wage for labor. The
Bulletin has never hesitated to declare
that the principle of fixing a wage accord-
ing not to the product of the labor but to
the supposed needs of the laborer is eco-
nomically wrong, and must in the long run
be disastrous. But at least there is this
good feature about the system: the basic
wage varies with the cost of living, being
governed by the price-levels of certain com-
modities plus house rent. What Labor sees
is that, though its own reward falls with the
cost of living, the reward of Capital does
not also fall in the same way. It is true
that in making its complaint Labor goes
much too far. Capital suffers enormously
except in this one group; further, it
suffers quite as much as Labor through the
freedom of this group from the general
suffering.
Without a doubt something is to be said
in favor of this group of investments going
scathless. The investor here wants some-
thing as near absolute security of both
principal and interest as it is humanly
possible to provide. Very often he is a
trustee holding funds for dependants or for
people with whom he has contracted to
provide certain benefits. In return for this
absolute security, or as near to it as he can
get, he has accepted a much lower rate of
interest than he could get elsewhere. It is
because of faith in this security that Aus-
tralian Governments have been able to
borrow at times for as little as 3j> per cent.
Our public undertakings would have been
loaded with an annual interest bill a great
deal larger than it is if this faith had been
lacking. And because we now owe
£1,100,000,000, and will have to seek the
renewal of by far the greater part of it,
it is obvious that any weakening of that
faith may cost us a lot of money through
the higher rates that will be demanded.
Yet every month leaves us less confident
of our ability to get through without some
adjustment of our burdens. It is not at
present conceivable that we shall ask for
any reduction of principal; but the fall in
the value of our staple products is driving
us steadily towards the point at which we
shall be compelled to seek relief in the
matter of interest. At present we are
pulling through merely by shipping away
every gold £ that can be spared and by
piling up temporary loans in London. The
same gold cannot' be shipped twice; and
the temporary loans are only making the
position of our overseas creditors worse.
Some adjustment may, therefore, be in the
best interests of the bondholders them-
selves.
The doubt which will disturb most Aus-
tralians is whether there are any grounds
on which negotiations could reasonably
be opened up. The Bulletin believes there
are. Such investments, as we have seen, are
taken without hope or expectation of an
increase of either interest or principal. But
actually there has been a great increase of
both, and that from causes entirely outside
the control of either borrower or lender.
It is indeed this great movement which
is crippling us. Without a doubt we could
pull through all right but for the tremen-
dous fall in the price of commodities—a
movement which, while it has robbed us of
nearly half our income, has made the £
which we pay overseas in interest wqrth
50 per cent, more than it was a few years
ago: the £ we pay in England is worth
nearly 40 per cent, more than it was on the
average even of 1927. It is surely not
unreasonable that we should ask for relief
in proportion to the extent to which we
have suffered from this fall in prices—in
proportion also to the extent to which our
creditors have benefited by that fall.
Even with that relief our position will
not be easy; but it will be less impossible.
Unless this part of our problem is attacked,
we may do everything and yet fail; for
every budget in Australia might be balanced
and we still might default in London.
Whether we shall avoid default there de-
pends on our ability to make our exports
pay our interest bill and for our imports;
and, though we have done well in the attack
on our imports, the stunning fall in the
price of almost every export staple still
leaves our exports hopelessly insufficient.
There still remains the possibility of reduc-
ing the interest bill in such a way that no
injustice shall be done our creditors and
the least possible damage shall be done to
our credit. Admittedly the matter will
have to be approached with caution; but
if it is not approached at all there is danger
that something may happen which will
be more injurious to our reputation.
Meantime it is of the utmost importance
that our credit shall be sustained; and this
throws a heavy obligation upon Australia
to make a success of the pending internal
conversion loan.
RED, WHITE AND YELLOW.
The Monastery of Harmonious Tran-
quillity, where Lim Sam Kee was living in
temporary retirement, lay five miles up in
the foothills, and I took a chair to it.
The way led through the street of the
courtesans, which was as fully populated
as when Marco Polo strolled through it
some six centuries earlier. At the city
gate there was a jamb of tradesmen wanting
to get out and an equal jamb of fugitives
wanting to get in, with the military fren-
ziedly trying to make themselves heard
above the clamor. Outside we crossed a
many-arched causeway over a lake dotted
with artificial islands built by former
emperors, each island surmounted by a Con-
fucian or Buddhist temple, black-tiled roofs
on grey and graceful columns pointing in-
numerable eaves to Heaven; and worship-
pers or sightseers thronged their courtyards
just as if there were no military operations
going on in the immediate vicinity.
The monks were engaged in their daily
ritual, looking as full of intelligent piety
as a herd of cows assembled for the evening
milking. I found Lim sitting in his cell,
which was hung impartially with large
photographic enlargements of himself as
a Republican general and as an incarnation
of the Buddha. Let me introduce him-
He is a Straits Chinese, bom in a British
settlement and educated in America, who
invested his father’s millions in the Chinese
revolution, lost them, turned bandit m
order to recover them, and eventually
became a Republican commander. His
face was now lined with thought, there
was less of the fire of youth under his
drooping eyelids, and he had lost both
ears as a result of his bandit activities.
Also his head was shaved, but his skull
was without the scars which indicate irre-
vocable abandonment of the world. I know
Lim; so I could almost hear him telling
himself that one never knew when a
military command might fall vacant and a
call might come to save one’s country.
He read me a poem he had just composed
about the advantages of being born a fire-
fly. It contained 16 syllables, and lie
assured me it was unusually beautiful. Then
he gazed wistfully out of the octagonal
window which commanded a view of the
plain below and the local operations con-
nected with the revolution. A battexy of
field-guns was firing in a desultory way at
some unseen objective.
“Since there are men still to preach the
gospel of force and statesmen to give it
expression,” he murmured, “how are we any
different from savages except in the degree
of perfection of our weapons for destroying
one another? If we ignore the pacific
element in civilisation, the state of China
and of Europe is the state of your Papua
a few years ago before the advent of the
reforming white man. One tribe warred
against another. Their motives were no
doubt pride of race—vanity of personal
prowess and the prestige of their chieftains.
If one man met another he killed him lest
he be killed himself. Then commonsense
appeared in the shape of the white man and
demonstrated to both parties the futility,
or at any rate the disadvantage, of either
killing the other.”
A servant brought in tea, and Lim
thoughtfully cracked a few melon seeds.
“Your Norman Angell and others,” he
said presently, “maintain that war will be
abandoned as soon as it is seen to be un-
profitable. How typically Western! We in
China despise commerce, yet we have had
war at intervals of 17 years for the last 2000
years. We are not pacifists. Far from it!
On the path you came this morning you saw
tombs, temples and shrines innumerable.
Three-quarters of them are in memory of
our Lord Kitcheners and Nelsons.”
Lim paused, and in the silence the faint
sound of machine-guns drifted through the
window.
“You send us your missionaries in their
thousands, but the chief gift of the West to
the Orient is the art of militarism. Presi-
dent Chiang Kai-shek learnt his strategy
in a Japanese military academy directed by
Germans. Yen Hsi-shan is a graduate of
a Japanese staff college. Marshal Feng, the
Christian general, is supplied with arms and
officers from Russia. Our navy, such as it is,
is admiralled by ex-midshipmen of your
Royal Navy. French aviators, .with the
approval of their Government, teach us the
art of bomb-dropping. During the late
European War there were Chinese officers
by invitation at both the Allied and Ger-
man fronts picking up the latest wrinkles.”
Lim unrolled a virgin scroll and started
to rub up his ink stick.
“Nobody can deny the craziness of the
present world situation,” he continued. “It
was claimed that the last war would be
fatal to the white control of Asia. The
wrecked white nations would be prey for the
yellow. Once again the East would over-
whelm the West, and the long, costly, weary
process of regenerating man from barbarism
would have to be begun again. The mar-
vellous vitality of the West survived the
shock; nevertheless the East gained much.
Egypt, Turkey and India have wholly or
in part shaken off European domination.
Japan and China have gained seats in the
councils of the white race, and, in spite
of civil war, China has established a shaky
Government that has yet been able to
extort equal treatment from many power-
ful European States. Yet the lesson has
been lost on all but a handful of the white
and yellow races.”
He dipped his brush into the ink and idly
traced a character that suggested a butterfly
alighting on a white chrysanthemum.
“To-day China, on whose stability rests
the future of civilisation, is slowly crumb-
ling into dissolution, like yonder pagoda.
Standing amidst the ruins, the Nanking
Government is frantically striving to arrest
the process, though without any clear
notion of what it is doing. But it can do
little. Bullied, threatened, exploited and
cajoled by the predatory Powers of the
West and of Japan on the seaboard, and
undermined with ideas and arms 'from
Russia to the northward, it has lost the
confidence of the people. Have you heard
that Chinese armies, calling themselves
Communist, have appeared on the hills
overlooking Foochow and the Pacific
Ocean?”
We watched through the octagonal
window an aeroplane emerge from behind
a wood, swoop low over a pagoda which
was being used for an observation-post and
fly onward. The pagoda rose slowly in the
air; then the 400-year-old memorial col-
lapsed like a toy house of blocks, and a
cloud of dust shot suddenly up and slowly
drifted across the ricefields.
“It is the time for evening prayer,” mur-
mured Lim Sam Kee, laying down his
brush regretfully.
FENG-SHUI.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Help for the Wheatgrower.
Hopes that J. Bull would encourage the
Dominions to go on with the job of food-
producing by buying a bigger proportion
of their wheat than formerly—in Aus-
tralia’s case it would have meant only an
extra six million bushels a year or so —
seem to be doomed to disappointment. The
ghost of Cobden still walks, and the con-
clusion arrived at by Forbes, Premier of
Maoriland, a couple of weeks ago, that the
professed sympathy of MacDonald and
some of his Ministers for the quota scheme
was “just words,” is establishing itself. In
the circumstances the question arises as to
how Australia is to keep faith with the
farmers who were urged by politicians to
increase the wheat production and
promised a remunerative return if they did
so. The latest estimate of this year’s har-
vest is 213,000,000 bushels, a surplus of
about 159,000,000 bushels over domestic re-
quirements. The price of wheat in the
world’s markets has been steadily slumping.
Four months ago it had reached the 4s-
mark, and to-day the quotation is 2s. Id.
a bushel at sidings, a figure which in most
instances must be well below the cost of
production. It has become obvious that
the guarantee of 4s. a bushel proffered by
the Scullin Government could not have
been honored. Australia is money-poor.
■ The best, and indeed the only practicable
and definite, suggestion for alleviating the
sorry case of the men who were induced, by
promises that can’t be honored, to grow more
wheat is that made by the recent confer-
ence at Canberra, representative of wheat
interests and attended by the various
Ministers of Agriculture—to clap a sales tax
of £7 4s. a ton on flour. It is reckoned that
this would increase the price of bread by Id.
per 21b. loaf, but it would give the wheat-
growers an extra 7 l-sd. per bushel on their
crop, which might mean all the difference
between bankruptcy and solvency. Alter-
natives put forward were bounties and
guarantees which would throw an undue
strain on the already rocky finances of the
Federal Government, and a characteristic
N.S.W. Labor plan for borrowing a few
millions and distributing them among the
N.S.W. wheatgrowers.
The stabilisation of wheat nr ices in a
country such as Australia, which exports in
a year such as this more than three-fourths
of its production, is admittedly a difficult
problem. Maoriland, which has not a
great deal of land suited for profitable
wheat production—the best wheat land can
be used to better commercial advantage
there—ensures a fairly adequate domestic
supply by cutting out one-half of the gamble
on seasons and prices by fixing the latter.
For some years now, by means of a slid-
ing tariff, the domestic price of wheat has
been fixed at about 6s 6d. a bushel. This
was bitterly opposed at the outset, but it
has proved a very advantageous arrange-
ment for the farmers and—as time has
shown-—for the rest of the community.
Australia cannot operate a stabilisation
scheme by a tariff, but it can at least par-
tially stabilise prices by a sales tax, and the
Maoriland precedent shows that there is not
much risk of the general community suffer-
ing any undue hardship if that is done.
*
“Legalised Theft.”
Sydney’s “Labor Daily,” while reserving its
warmest enthusiasm for the Left Wing pro-
posals to increase the note issue by
£20,000,000 and “defer” (i.e., refuse) pay-
ment of the loan maturing in December,
publishes with evident approval some advice
from Maoriland to the present rulers of
Australia. The giver of the advice is un-
named, but is described as “a member of
one of the wealthiest and most influential
families in the Dominion.” “In a. national
crisis,” he writes, “the man with an un-
earned income of £lO,OOO a year has at least
£9OOO a year too much.” And, in effect, he
recommends to the Commonwealth, being
“a thinker” and “a man of humanitarian
instincts,” “a considered and calculated
policy of legalised theft applied to those
who have.”
The gentleman won’t have long to wait
to study the effects of this policy from a
safe distance. Taxation of incomes was
very severe in Australia even before the
Scullidores arrived. Federal tax was ss.
in the £, with 8 per cent, added, on per-
sonal-exertion income exceeding £7600 and
property income exceeding £6500; N.S.W.
State tax was ss. in the £ on personal-
exertion income exceeding £7OOO and prop-
erty income exceeding £5500. Now, with so-
called unemployment taxes on - income
imposed in four States, with ordinary
income taxes increased, or about to be in-
creased, in most cases heavily, in six States,
and with three thumping additions to the
Federal tax inside 12 months, this confusion
of imposts will work out at the most
terrific in the world; and it is admitted
without shame that there will be a tre-
mendous Federal deficit even then.
The sharpest punishment has been re-
served for the provident and the thrifty.
To avoid reducing the pay of the Public
Service unions, the Federal Government is
increasing the tax on property income by
Is. 6d. in the £, at the same time reducing
the exemption to £2OO. Thus the elderly
widow of a farmer drawing £3OO a year from
her husband’s estate will pay £lB 13s. lid.
in Federal tax alone. But a bookmaker’s
clerk in receipt of £3OO a year will
be exempt from Federal tax. His £3OO is
called “earned” income; the widow’s £3OO
is “unearned.” Similarly, a retired doctor or
professor will be charged £134 19s. 3d. Fed-
eral tax on an “unearned” £lOOO, whereas
McShortodds on an “earned” £lOOO will be
let off with £34 10s. 3d.
In Maoriland, where the “Labor Daily”
says its adviser lives, the income tax ranges
from 7d. to 4s. 6d. in the £ with a 10 per
cent, reduction in respeqt of earned income.
There is “a special exemption of 5 per cent,
p.a. on land used for the purposes of
deriving rents, royalties or other profits,”
and “all income derived from farming land
in cases where the unimproved value of
such land is less than £14,000” is totally
exempt from tax. Moreover, Maoriland
has no use for inflationists or repudiation-
ists. One result is that its 3i per cents.,
1940, are quoted at £9O 6s. 3d. in London,
and N. S. Wales per cents., 1930-50, at
£5B, while M.L. six per cents., 1936-51, fetch
£lO5 17s. 6d. and Commonwealth six per
cents., 1931-41, £9l 2s. 6d.
+
The Merit in Being Offensive.
In opposition to various learned gentlemen,
including late Attorney-General Latham,
The Bulletin expressed the opinion that
Mr. Lang could and would withdraw from
the Loan Council if he wanted to. He might
be told that his action was illegal, uncon-
stitutional and much more of the sort. But
where are the penalites? Who could put
Mr. Lang in gaol for doing what he is told
he could not do? “I have done it,” he would
reply; “now what are you going to do
about it?”
There are hundreds of things we could
do and don’t do, not because the law of
the land says we must not do them, but
because we would be ashamed of what our
fellows would say or think if we did them.
Out of that arises the error we are liable
to make in judging what Mr. Lang will do.
We assume that a certain thing will not be
done because such things are not done.
Instead of hesitating on that account,
however, Mr. Lang wall for the most part
be encouraged to go ahead. Here we have
class consciousness in operation; and Mr.
Lang is the very embodiment of class con-
sciouness, carefully and assiduously culti-
vated. If it is “the other mob” who will
be shocked, then for that very reason it is
something to be done.
It is a great pity, of course, because when
we do something only because somebody
else will disapprove of it, we surrender
our reason. We do not then form our own
judgment or govern our own action: our
enemy, or he whom we regard as our
enemy, decides our conduct by deciding his
own. And much is sacrificed besides re'ason
—courtesy and kindly feeling, for instance.
We see illustrations of that in every elec-
tion campaign. It is not enough to vote
a Bruce or a Bavin down. He must be
made as uncomfortable and wretched as any
man can be.
And the manifestation of this spirit does
not stop at the political meeting or cam-
paign. A characteristic little instance of it
was reported by a Sydney paper the other
day. There were sports at that good Labor
stronghold Lithgow, and a drunken man
got on to the course. A policeman set out
to remove him. “Here,” the public nuisance
said, “you mustn’t do that now, you know!”
.“Why mustn’t I do that now?” the Law
asked. “Why!” replied the nuisance scorn-
fully. “Why! Because Jack Lang’s in
power, that’s why.” This truculence is not
only in the drunk. Not the car-driver
only but the pedestrian as well knows how
shamelessly many a motor-truck driver will
disregard the comfort and convenience-
even the plain rights—of others.
It is all very unfortunate; but maybe it
is only a passing reactionary phase, the
result of lack of education. At the moment,
seeing what enormous changes for the better
have occurred in the worker’s conditions,
he is apt to think that Labor-in-politics,
including the labor union, has done all this
for him. The labor union has often stood
between him and oppression; but it is not
at all certain that he would not have been
quite as well off to-day if there had never
been a Parliamentary Labor party. There
never has been one of the smallest conse-
quence in the U.S.A., for example; yet con-
ditions of labor are at least as good there
as in N. S. Wales, where Labor-in-politics
has for long been so powerful. When the
worker realises that not all that he has
comes to him through union organisers and
Labor M’s. P.—when he realises that some
of the men who have done most for him
and are doing most are not branded “Labor”
at all—he may lose .some of that class
consciousness which is so liable to spoil him.
World’s Gold and Our Debts.
An astonishing statement has been prepared
by the Director of the U.S. Mint regarding
the gold stocks of the world, based chiefly
on replies to questions put to reserve banks
and Governments. The feature which en-
titles it to be called astonishing is the dis- -
closure that since 1912 there has been an
increase of 99.9 per cent, in the gold reserves
of the 36 countries listed. It does not, of
course, follow that there has been a produc-
tion and accumulation of gold in 18 years
almost equal to the entire production and
accumulation of gold up to 1912. What has
happened is that gold has been mobilised
everywhere for currency purposes.
During this period Britain’s increase was
94 per cent; France’s was 179 per cent., and
that was almost equal to Uncle Sam’s pro-
portionate increase—l 79.4 per cent. But Sam
started off well ahead of France: the latter
in 1912 had 129 millions sterling in gold, and
on June 30 last 359 millions. The U.S.A.,
starting off with 311 millions in 1912, has
now 870 millions of the world’s total of 2187
millions. In other words, while the U.S.A.
has just on 40 per cent, of the world’s gold
reserves, France has only something over
16 per cent. Britain’s proportion is 7 per
cent.
Whereas every country of Europe out-
side Russia and the Austro-Hungarian group
has increased its gold reserves, Belgium by
as much as 307 per cent, in 18 years, and
whereas every reporting country in Asia and
in South America, with the one exception of
Brazil, has increased its gold reserves,
the three great overseas dominions of
Britain —Canada, Australia and S. Africa—
all show serious shrinkages, Canada of 42
per cent., Australia of 40.5 per cent, and
S. Africa of 20.9 per cent. Why these three
British possessions should have been drained
of their gold at a time when almost every
other nation has been struggling for more
is a very proper subject for inquiry.
In our own case the explanation is obvious
enough. We borrowed so lavishly that pre-
sently we could not pay our interest and
other bills with our exports, and we could
not borrow any more for the purpose; so
we had to begin shipping gold, and we have
gone on doing it since the U.S. list closed.
The dominions’ weakness seems to have
been the possession of a mother who was
willing to open her purse to almost any
extent in good times, but snapped it tight
when conditions changed, and held out her
hand for gold to preserve the trade balance.
We are to blame. But there are at least
some grounds for saying that we are not
all to blame. The mother who could let a
wayward child have the run of her ple-
thoric purse would not be treating the child
quite fairly if she suddenly changed hex-
character, and, closing her purse, became
the hai-d pei-son of business, asking gold
for every fraction of the interest and the
pi-incipal debt.
The Power of the Senate.
“Lex”: Shortly after the war Fedei-atioix
became unpopular with thousands who had
been its warm supporters. Under Griffith,
C.J., the Federal Parliament had been pretty
well powerless. Then Knox, C.J., picked up
the sceptre (under a Federal system the High
Court Judges are in a very real sense the
rulers of the country) and everything was
changed. Powers were taken from the
States right and left. The Q. Government
was told, for example, that it couldn’t pass
its Anti-Profiteering Act, since trade had
to be “absolutely free” between the States.
After the engineers’ case, in which the
High Court ruled that our Constitution
leaves everything and everybody subject
to Federal law on all subjects on which
the Federal Parliament is authorised to
legislate, the State Righters virtually threw
up the sponge. W. A. Holman, a lifelong
devotee of the cult, wrote: —
“It is up exaggeration to say that the
decision definitely sounds the chjatlykncll oL‘
the State Governments of Australia. The
authority of the State Parliaments is at an
end; it has been handed over to another and
independent power.”
It looked a tragedy at the time even to
many who were not enthusiastic State
Righters. Recent events suggest that it was
a lucky day for Australia when Knox sub-
stituted the Commonwealth view of the
Constitution for the State view that had
been voiced over so many years by Grif-
fith. Take the present position in N. S.
Wales. Like Bananaland, N. S. Wales has
been the stamping-ground off and on, ever
since the war, of political frauds who rely
on impossible promises to gain office, and
once in office are driven to all kinds of
spectacular lunacies in the attempt to justify
themselves as friends of the workers. The
first measure promised by the Lang Gov-
ernment is the abolition of the Legislative
Council. There is an Act in existence which
demands a referendum beforehand, but that
would involve delay, so the idea is to
swamp the Council with 80 M’s.L.C. pledged
to abolition, and finish the obstructive
chamber off by February. Creditors in the
U.K. will probably be perturbed when
the news reaches them that the most popu-
lous State in the Commonwealth is going
in for unicameral government under a Labor
Administration bossed by the Trades Hall.
What most of them don’t know, and in the
interests of Australia’s credit should be
told without delay, is that it matters very
little to them what Mr. Lang tells his
deluded followers he is going to do to the
“British moneylenders.” He can do damage
to his own State. But the central Govern-
ment is the Only one with which most of
Australia’s overseas creditors need concern
themselves, and it has a house of review
that no political party can abolish. Aboli-
tion can only be accomplished by a majo-
rity of the electors voting in a majority
of the States, and also by a majority of all
the electors voting. And there is no more
likelihood of that happening than there is
of Australia acquiring a High Court that
will over-rule the decisions of the past 10
years—decisions which even the Stkte
Righters admit are “more in accord with
the language of our Constitution than the
opposing decisions which had previously
held the ground.”
4
Reproductive Works.
“G.A.8.”: Is the committee which has
been helping the N.S.W. Government to find
work so short of ideas that it can think
of no truly reproductive undertakings beside
levelling Crown sands to create possible
building sites about the year 1950? I live
among beef and butter—two rather good
commodities at present. A few miles up the
river are half a dozen Crown blocks of excel-
lent soil with river frontage. Only two
things stand between them and prolific pro-
duction —a covering of heavy forest and
an impassable road. Here is an excellent
opportunity for the Relief Tax Committee.
From Paterson to the Queensland border
a hundred other such patches exist, all i-n
the dairying belt.
What about the millions of acres of
splendid land near the northern N.S.W.
border covered with prickly-pear? Patches
of this infested land, cleared by an army
of unemployed, would make it worth while
prospective landholders turning their atten-
tion to it.
Every new family placed on the land
means a family off the labor market and
another family given employment by the
industry created, as well as a little more
export produce to help rectify our lopsided
trade balance.
♦
Cabinet Nuisances.
In the old days when the head of a Gov-
ernment wanted to get rid of a, refractory
colleague he asked him to resign, and if
this polite method failed he dismissed him,
or got the Governor to do so, which came
to the same thing. Such was John For-
rest’s way with Venn in Westralia a genera-
tion ago, and though it may have been high-
handed nobody suggested it wasn’t con-
stitutional. But the first Labor leader who
surrendered the right to choose his own
colleagues obviously surrendered also the
right of firing them. Hughes had to walk
out of Caucus and slam the door behind hina
in 1916 before he could purge his Cabin#
of anti-conscriptionists, and Lang could
only secure a new set of Ministers in 1927
by handing in the resignations of the whole
crowd, his own included, and obtaining a
fresh commission. What Scullin can do at
the other end of the world when Anstey
and Beasley explicitly defy him and declare,
as they have been 4 ec l ai 'i n S> that Caucus
put them into Cabinet and only Caucus
can put them out of it. remains to be seen.
All that sticks out is that there is no longer
such a thing as collective responsibility for
a policy in an Australian Labor Cabinet.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES . . 2, 5
WAR BOOKS, by Rev. C. C. Martindale .. 2
RECIPE FOR A BEST-SELLER, by M.G.S. .. 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . . . 5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
HOW PROSPERITY WAS RESTORED IN THE
’NINETIES 8
CAN WE REDUCE OUR INTEREST BILL? . . 8
RED, WHITE AND YELLOW, by “Feng-Shui” 8
HELP FOR THE WIIEATGROWER ! . . . . 9
“LEGALISED THEFT” ..' 9
WORLD’S GOLD AND OUR DEBTS . . . . 9
MERIT IN BEING OFFENSIVE 9
POLITICAL POINTS—
(With cartoonlets by Frith) . . .. .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) . . . . .. 11, 12
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 13
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 13
PERPLEXITIES OF AUSTRALIA—
By an American Banker .. .. .. 13
COMPETITION IN PROPRIETARY LINES.. 13
PERSONAL (with caricatures) .„. • ■ •• 14
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL . r . . -.15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) . . ■ • 10
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 17, 18
COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO 17
ROBERT REID & CO., LTD. -.17
MARCUS CLARK & CO., LTD 17
J. FIELDING & CO., LTD 17
AUSTRALIAN BENEFIT LIFE. . . . ■ ■ 17
THE ARTHUR RICKARD COS 18
CIVIL SERVICE STORES (SYDNEY).. .. IS
INVESTMENT QUESTIONS ANSWERED .. IS
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 20, 21
MAN ON THE LAND 22, 25
THIS MINERAL DEFICIENCY 22
LUCERNE FOR GRAZING 22
CAMPAIGN AGAINST BUNCHYTOP . . .. 22
FARM QUESTIONS ANSWERED . . . . 25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT 20
SMOKE-011 (with drawings) . . . . . . 28
POVERTY POINT 31
THE PALETTE 31
THE INKY WAY 31
SHADOW SHOWS S 3
SPORTING (illustrated) 35, SO
A.J.C. NOVEMBER MEETING 35
V.A.T.C. RACES 35
RYDER BENEFIT CRICKET 35
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER ... . . ■ • 39
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE .. .. ..41
NEW SERIAL, “Break o’ Day”-
By John Crisp . . . . . . 42, 43, 45
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 11
AS WE SAID BEFORE—
(With drawings by the artists of the ’Eighties) 47
COMPLETE STORY— .
“THE MAN WHO BOUGHT A KINGDOM”—
By Osmar E. White . . . . .. 49, 50
VERSE —By R. D. Fitz Gerald, M. Forrest . . 45
CHRISTMAS NUMBER"; DECEMBER 3. NEW YEAR NUMBER, DECEMBER 31.
These, besides carrying the ordinary features, will be rich in stories and drawings, and will contain
Henry Lawson’s Autobiography, hitherto unpublished.


A DOUBLE HAT-TRICK
Both i'n 1929 and 1930 the three greatest International
Road Races for standard cars were won on Shell Oil
and Spirit. By these decisive victories in some of the
most gruelling road tests ever conducted. Shell gains
the double "hat trick” laurels.
Le Mans Grand Prix 1929 and 1930
Junior Car Clubs “Double 12 hrs.” 1929 and 1930
Irish Grand Prix 1929 and 1930
were all won by cars fuelled and lubricated by ShelL
%3.
t %
m
$.1106
SHELL OIL and SPIRIT
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Imperial Conference has talked itself
out at last.. There is to be no British
wheat quota or bulk purchase of Dominion
goods (bulk purchase was a great Labor cam-
paign cry), and Canada’s proposal for a 10
p.c. tax on foreign imports was acidly re-
fused; but the preferences to the Dominions
are to be continued for a while longer. A
“special economic conference” at Ottawa
next year is talked of, but if the Rammacs
remain in office it will be a waste of time.
Federal Labor promised the farmers 4s. a
bushel at siding for tlieir wheat. The present
siding price is about 2s. Id. and the harvest is
now expected to exceed 200 million bushels.
At Canberra last week the Government
turned down a request for a guarantee of
35., and also a South Aus, proposal for a
sales tax of £7 4s. a ton on flour, the pro-
ceeds (estimated at 7 l-sd. a bushel) to be
distributed among those whom it implored
to Grow More Wheat, and who did. Yet
Minister Forde had the face to say that if the
Wheat Marketing Bill had gone through the
Commonwealth Bank would have found the
promised 4s. (totalling, perhaps, £18,000,000
or £20,000,000) somehow.
FOLLOWING THE GLEAM.
“After his declaration of independence at the
Loan Council, Mr. Lang walked from Canberra
to Queanbeyan, which is in his own territory.
A Tasmanian being Commonwealth Post
master-General, for the first time since 1904,
the, 28-year-old postal ban on the delivery
of letters to the Tasmanian sweep promoters
and their acknowledged agents in the islet
has been removed. The thing was sickening
humbug, for the letters always found their
way to the right address, and they mostly
contained postal notes specially issued for
buyers of sweep tickets; but it would have
been wiser to let the hypocrisy continue
than to encourage idle forms of gambling
these times. Now the N.S.W. “Labor” Gov-
ernment threatens to run sweeps on its own
account, partly to Give the Workers What
They Want, aiid partly to get home on Com-
rade Lyons. There are also signs that it
will license s.-p. shops, and call back the
tin-hare gambling hells which Bavin and
Stevens, in their hatred for “Labor’s ideals,”
suppressed.
By an odd coincidence, while the Sculli-
dores were striking Tatt.’s off their postal
prohibition list, the British Labor Ministers
were placing Irish Free State sweeps on
theirs. These sweeps are generally conducted
on English horse-races, and three-fourths of
the subscribers are English. “Why don’t
you offer the people an alternative?” shouted
an Opposition member when the inter-
dict was announced. “Premium bonds,” for
instance. Premium bonds are certainly an
alternative, and a good one; it would be in-
finitely better for both English and Aus-
tralians if it became the fashion to buy
them (Government necessarily providing the
opportunity) instead of squandering money
on betting and sweep tickets. But the
British Labor Minister made no reply.
Declaring that “the honor and dignity of
Parliament” were involved, Opposition-leader
Latham questioned Theodore’s right to par-
ticipate in the deliberations of the House
of Reps, while the taint of the Royal Com-
missioner’s findings in the Mungana case
remains < unpurged. Speaker Makin inter-
vened with a ruling which was on all fours
with one given in the House of Commons
in Gladstone’s day, and the Opposition let
it go unchallenged. Latham was out-
manoeuvred, and some of his followers were
nettled at tactics which allowed Theodore to
register a win without having to fire a shot.
Some precedents supporting Latham’s atti-
tude didn’t even get an airing.
Two of the Federal Labor parties (there
seem to be five or six) agreed at Canberra
last week to bury the hatchet until the
Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, the
Minister of Markets, and Coleman, M.H.R.,
return from their expensive trips abroad.
They all subscribed to a motion saying that
“the movement” would never, never default,
and that “any attempt to construe
Labor’s financial proposals to the
contrary is false.” The financial
proposals of the Left, as embodied
in a Caucus resolution, are, among
other things, that “legislation be
passed immediately compelling bond-
holders in the £27,000,000 loan,
.maturing in December to hold their
bonds for a further 12 months.” This
motion, as the “Labor Daily” puts
it, “remains on the records of the
party, and stays there as a chal-
lenge.” The financial proposals of
the Right provide (very late in the
day) for loan conversion, but the
savage income-tax increases an-
nounced are a deliberate infraction
of the promise that State taxation
fields would not be encroached
upon; the Melbourne agreement has also
been violated, for the Federal Budget is not
to be balanced. Meanwhile Lang says he
has quitted the Loan Council and is being-
urged to lead his State out of the Federa-
tion; Scullin has cabled that the Left Wing’s
decisions were “appalling” ; and there is talk
of Keane, of Bendigo, leading a new palace
revolution on the subject of unemployment.
Australia commissioned this disorderly mob
to govern, and it doesn’t know how to.
Lang got a shock—others are in prepara-
tion—when John Brown’s N.S.W. estate was
sworn at £640,350 gross and £589,800 net.
Newspaper writers valued it at four mil-
lions, on which basis, as the grim old mine-
owner left neither widow nor child, Lang,
as State Treasurer, would be entitled to
£SOO,GOO and Lyons, of Canberra to £480,000
—2O per cent, and 15 per cent, of the bal-
ance. It is presumed that Lang will chal-
lenge the valuation on the ground that he
promised on the hustings to restore 1927
conditions, and that it ought to be reckoned
as good as done.
Bruce, now back in Australia, was born
under a lucky star. He sailed into the
Prime Ministership on the wind that blew
his leader, Hughes, out of office ; he governed
Australia for six years by platitudes, and
lie was thrown out just before the slump.
He returns after a year abroad to find the
crowd that displaced him cutting its throat
and his old constituency about to receive
the attention of boundary commissioners,
which will almost certainly mean—the elec-
toral population being excessive and one of
the outlying subdivisions, Wonthaggi, being
90 p.c. Labor—that it will be made safe for
him. The fortunate young man may quite
“Mr. Bruce lightly disposes of our troubles. ‘An
effort,’ he says in effect, ‘and all will be well.’”
LEADER OF AUSTRALIAN “PARTY”: “That’s
what I’ve been saying. He stole my job
seven years ago, and now he steals my
thunder.”
reasonably hope to lead another Government
inside of a couple of years, whereas if he
had been given another lease of, power in
1929 it might before long have meant extinc-
tion for him.
Just, after his return to Melbourne from
the Loan Council at Canberra, Hogan
pushed through the Assembly his Finance
Bill, which embodied all his Budget taxation
proposals. Sympathising with the Labor
Premier in his determination to balance the
ledger the Opposition withdrew resistance,
but gave Ministers to understand that they
won’t get things all their own way on in-
creased unemployment taxes. Hogan pro-
poses to quadruple the stamp duty on wages
A DONNYBROOK TRUCE.
“Members of the Federal Labor Caucus have
resolved that there shall be no more head-thump-
ing for the present.” —Sydney “Sun.”
(now Id. in the f) for seven months, Dec.
to June inclusive, and to increase the super-
tax on income by 150 p.c. Argyle will in-
sist on an impartial administrative commis-
sion, and, to make the fund go as far as
possible, will urge that relief work shall be
paid at lower rates than ordinary work.
The arresting S. Aus. plan for a sales tax
of £7 4s. a ton on flour, wheatgrowers to
get the benefit, was unfolded at a conference
of Agricultural Ministers, of whom Dunn,
the N.S.W. Labor man, was one. Dunn came
out with the characteristic suggestion that
millions should be borrowed by the States
and distributed among the farmers as a
free gift. A sales tax of £1 Ids. a ton on
flour would, he contended, wipe out the debt
in a few years, and the price of bread
wouldn’t go up a farthing. It was patiently
pointed out that the constitution of the
Loan Council forbade such' fantastic schemes,
and that Westralia’s share of Dunn’s sales
tax wouldn’t be worth talking about (it has
a population of 400,000 and expects a 50-
million-bushel crop) ; and the gentleman
fled back to Sydney in a rage. Dunn’s
crowd would borrow to buy the whisky at
its own wake.
Branches of the Rural Progs, are to be
kept going in the Vic. Assembly electorate,
of Ouyen, and Glowrey, the local member,
will be a party of one in the House. Per-
haps he won’t find it any more awkward than
P. G. Stewart did in the Reps., and McCann
in the Vic. Uppish House, when each had
to play a lone hand. Stewart and McCann,
like the other Rural Progs., Glowrey
excepted, have rejoined the Country party.
Ex-soldiers are not the worst payers.
Despite the coal strike and the depression,
the War Service Homes Commission reports
only £117,302 of arrears in a total liability
of £10,524,498. Those Labor politicians who
believe there is a general desire for repudia-
tion might paste these figures in the tiles
they.talk through.
The announcement that the Vie. unemploy-
ment tax is to be increased, as well as the
State and Federal income taxes, was preceded
by the spectacle of perishable food of good
quality being carted off to the Richmond
destructor owing to. the relief depot at the
local town hall having been declared “black”
by unemployed. The few who attempted
to obtain their daily ration had to do so
under police protection. The alleged reason
is that the destitute of the locality want
orders on tradesmen instead of parcels of
eatables. Their action proves one thing, at
any rate —their need is not as desperate as
Yarra Bank orators pretend it is.
Reviewing the economic position of the
seven systems of Government railways, Com-
monwealth Commissioner Gahan reports that
“the recorded loss” for five years, 1926 to
1930 inclusive, was £31,488,000, and that
“the true loss was even greater, owing to in-
adequate provision for depreciation and obso-
lescence.” The Queensland Auditor-General
estimates the losses on the Labor Govern-
ment’s cattle stations at £1,700,000. Pike,
J., reckoned the losses on soldier-settlement
at £23,525,000, and said the amount would
be greatly increased. And the Commonwealth
Auditor-General calculated that £8,000,000
was dropped on the Federal steamers.
these undertakings were conceived, controue
and slaughtered by politicians, but tne
failure has in no way diminished, the amazi »
conceit and cocksureness of the tribe,
the contrary, politicians are now claiming
know heaps more about banking tlian
bankers and undertaking that miracles w „
be performed if banking is “nationalise!,
like the railways. . .
After announcing his intention of retiring,
G. J. C. Dyett, of Melbourne, has been re-
elected Federal president of the Return* u
Sailors and Soldiers by the casting vote o
the Federal secretary. Dyett has been pi’ esl "
dent since 1919, and returned men could do
with a change. Had there been a less
amiable gentleman at the head of the organi-
sation the Federal Government would never
have dared to attack the preference principle,
or “ration” the permanent soldiers (while
sparing the union clerks), or lay up so many
warships, or do away with the naval college
and Duntroon.
It is supposed that everybody of real im-
portance who leaves England for here gets
the tip that he must declare himself
flabbergasted with the country’s vast un-
developed resources, else he won t make
a good impression. A really appreciative
visitor was one Macdonald :
Australia’s vast mineral resources have scarcely
been tapped The country contains the richest store
of minerals in the world, and the time is near
when that mighty asset must be appraised at its
proper value.
It is gratifying, of course, and it would be
more so if these assets, and especially the
long-sought-for oil, were less shy in turn-
ing up.
Toutclier was again unlucky with his
Elective Ministry proposal when he sub-
mitted it to Vic. Assembly. Blackburn,
the lawyer-Laborite, was the chief opponent.
All that Toutcher asked was that the House
should agree to a referendum on the subject
at the general election. Glowrey, another
champion of elective Cabinets, sought to have
a select committee of seven appointed to
devise a- non-party system of government.
The debate on motion and amendment was
adjourned, and that will be the last of the
matter this year, as it is proposed to close
down on private members’ business.
“The Diggers in conference at Hobart severely
criticised what Federal Labor is pleased to call
its defence policy.”
FIELD-MARSHAL GREEN: “I suppose a man’s
got to reassure ’em somehow. If this
get-up doesn’t do it, nothing will.”
“Tamworth” : I am an invalid. My income
is small —so small that if there were any-
thing- in that Arbitration Court evidence
about the standard of living I should have
perished of malnutrition long ago—but be-
cause it is derived from investments in
“wealthy companies” it is taxed approxi-
mately ss. in the £, counting Federal, State
and unemployment imposts. J. Bull takes
a bite, too, in the case of a company regis-
tered in England, but, tight as Snowden is
reported to be, he gives most of it back
again, if asked on the proper form. I pity
anyone who tries to get anything back from
our sharks! This year my income is re-
duced by about half, which seems to be
about the average loss, outside the sheltered
trades of politics and the Civil Service.
Now Mr.> Lyons is slapping on a super-
tax of Is. 6d. in the £ of income, not tax.
Mr. Lyons has no use for invalids in receipt
of “unearned” income. Invalids lie presum-
ably regards as oppressors of bookmakers’
clerks, civil servants and other divisions of
the toiling masses rightly struggling to be
free.


SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS
“Con Tango”: It has been suggested that
the robber who squirted ammonia into a
teller’s eyes at the N.S.W. Government Sav-
ings Bank headquarters and got away with
£4OO in notes, must have had an abnormally
thin arm to be able to pass it beneath the
grille up to the elbow. Actually, the space
is quite big enough to admit the average per-
son’s forearm, or most of it, with the cover-
ing thrust back, although it would certainly
present difficulties to anyone handicapped
with a mutton fist or blacksmith’s biceps.
In any case there are mechanical devices,
largely employed in America, by which a pile
of,notes may be skilfully harpooned when the
operator’s arm won’t reach far enough. Pro-
RIVAL COMPANIONS.
“I believe the old General has screwed up courage to propose to Phyllis."
“Well, take my word for it, Phyllis has been through more engagements than the old
General has ever seen.”
bably there is far more temptation to bank
robbery, and a much better chance of getting
away wfith the plunder, since gold receded
into the bank vaults and paper money
entirely superseded it, instead of merely
sharing place witn it, on the counters. There
is more temptation to robbery from the
person, too; the lighter in weight currency
grows the more of it is likely to be carried.
* H: * *
“Centurion”: Commenting on the cabled
announcement that corsets are coming into
vogue again among American and European
males, a Sydney journal recalls that there
was a time when the exquisites of the
Lancers improved their figures in this
way. A foul libel on the pig-stickers;
it was the Hussar regiments who affected
this aid to elegance. The tight-fitting Hus-
sar tunic is worn without sash or waist-
belt, the sword being carried by slings on
a belt under the tunic; hence any protuber-
ance either for’ard or aft becomes markedly
noticeable. Lancers and dragoons w r ear a
tightly-drawn sash or belt round the waist
which softens the contours. The Hussar
rank and file of the old days followed the
example of their officers. They could not
afford corsets, but achieved the same effect
by winding themselves into a long narrow
strip of calico, a chum obligingly keeping
the strain on during the winding process.
* * * a
“Nakhoda” : When the German _ landing-
party commandeered Governor Ross’s island-
built schooner and es-
caped to Arabia after
the Sydney-E mden
battle Cocos saw its
whole navy disappear,
but not for the first
time. In 1892, during
the re-ign of George
Ross, second of the
dynasty, an Italian bar-
que, the Luigo Raffo
was wrecked on the
atoll. Ross had no
police, no army, in
fact, nothing but his
shadowy sovereignty
over 500 Malays to
back him, and the IS
castaways looked a
tough proposition. To
forestall a revolution
he lent them his
schooner, his Norwe-
gian captain and eight
of his best Malay sea-
men to take the lot to
Si n gapore. Nothing
more was ever heard
of them, and it turned
out later that the
Luigo Raffo had been
lying safe in an Italian
port during the above
proceedings. The only
plausible inference was
that the shipwrecked
craft had been pirated
and her name altered.
Ross’s captain and his
eight men were pro-
bably thrown over-
board, and Ross’s
schooner may still be
sailing the seas under
an alias.
“Winsley”: The misrated acoustical pro-
perties not of a building but of a farm have
saved from the gallows Cecil Charles, a
Ilawkesbury (N.S.W.) agriculturist, who
was convicted of the hideous crime of par i-
cide and sentenced to death seven months
ago. One of the reasons, it was alleged,
which helped to convince the first jury of
Charles’s guilt was that he persisted that
he had never heard cries for help from his
assaulted parent, though people hundreds of
yards further away said they had heard them.
The prisoner’s legal advisers succeeded in
getting a new trial, at which expert evidence
was tendered, including that of a University
lecturer, that the transmissibility of sound
over a longer distance and its non-transmis-
sibility over, a shorter had, in this instance, a
perfectly sound scientific explanation. Con-
sequently the second jury reversed the ver-
dict of the first and Charles the younger is a
free man again, although little tendency has
been evinced even by a sensation-loving press
to emphasise how narrowly a miscarriage of
justice was averted. The problem of
who really killed Charles the. elder looks like
being added to the list of unsolved mysteries.
* He ❖ *
“D. Gustibus”: A regular shudder ran
through a meeting of architects and builders
and bumbles held in Sydney the other day
when an outspoken authority declared that
the Government Savings Bank building in
Martin-place, which citizens have hitherto
been invited to regard as the last word in
style and elegance, was “an architectural
monstrosity—the most horrible edifice yet
erected in Sydney.” Some shuddered at
what doubtless sounded to them like blas-
phemy ; others, it is just possible, were moved
to the same emotion when conjuring up the
building in the mind’s eye. It was an aider-
man who sought to restore equanimity by
pointing out that architects were very
like artists; what struck one as a mon-
strosity another might regard as a thing
of beauty. Which is true enough of other
people besides painters. Didn’t Johnson de-
clare that nobody could have read “Lycidas'
DISCUSSING THE OTHER SEX.
“I wonder why bits of boys like that smoke?"
“Became they’re too green to burn, I suppose.”
with pleasure had he not known the author,
and Carlyle stigmatise “Pickwick” as
nauseous?
... * * *
“S.T.S.”: Somewhere near the limit in
physical foolishness was reached the other
day by a man who danced all the way from
Gawler into Adelaide, about 23 miles. Three
girl-partners shared the road with him, leav-
ing the country town at 7.30 a.m. and finish-
ing at the G.P.O. about 5.30.
* * * *
“Neahleigh Kashless”: A visit to Long
Bay introduced me to IG9 prisoners whose
“crime” was failure to keep up maintenance
payments; among- a few whom I recognised
were two actors and an ox-M.L.A. Meanwhile
the gaol is so overcrowded that new arrivals
are kept waiting for cells while drafts are
rushed off to Bathurst, Parramatta or Tun-
curry camp, all overcrowded, too. Presum-
ably to ease matters in another direc-
tion, there are liberal remissions of sen-
tence for dangerous criminals. A isix-
monthser can be morally certain that his
term will be reduced to five by good-conduct
marks, which are awarded for almost any-
thing short of bashing a warder. On the
other hand, the man who has disregarded
a wife-maintenance order may have to serve
a year. There is no remission for him, and
when he comes out, penniless, it is to meet
a new debt which may send him back again.
Even the injured wives get only Bs. 6d. per
week out of the foolish and inhuman system.
* $ * *
“Hayes Kop”: Jimmy Thomas, Ramsay
Mac.’s lieutenant, patting Scullin on the
back for honesty, said that lie spoke with all
the responsibility of his position, “either as
a Labor leader or as a British statesman.”
The last word suggests that the stocky indi-
vidual who once complained at
some public-function of a “ ’ell of a
’eadache,” and glared suspiciously
at Lord Birkenhead when that
nobleman recommended a couple
of aspirates, doesn’t suffer from
anything in the nature of an in-
feriority complex. One doubts if
any Australian public man would
describe himself in cold blood as a statesman,
unless it were Billy Hughes. There is. a
vague impression that no man should claim
such a title in his lifetime, whatever others
may do for him after his death. But per-
haps the word doesn’t convey quite so much
to the average Englishman, such as Thomas.
* * * *
“P.X.”: Lord Beauchamp is a forgiving
soul, and long before he returned to Australia
had buried the hatchet which he had sharp-
ened for the Fairfaxes and the “S. M.
Herald” —had buried it so deep, indeed, that
one of the last things he did in Sydney was
to visit the new “Herald” office and look over
it in company with “young Mr. Warwick.”
I’m sure the genial Earl wouldn’t have
minded telling the young man how the feud
began. Beauchamp was hardly more than a
youth, though a terribly serious one. when
he was made Governor of N. S. Wales to
complete his education in public duties. That
was still the Victorian era, so the young
man was adjured to “be careful,” above all
things: he was not only to do no evil, but
to avoid every appearance of it. They
needn’t, of course, have told him all that ;
he had told himself the same things a hundred
times. Well, except for the opening break,
he was getting on very nicely indeed; and he
had got comfortably settled down, and had
been accepted as all he seemed, w r hen a big
garden party was arranged. It was a sort
of crowning effort; and the Earl and his
sister laid themselves out to so arrange
matters that there should be not the slightest
hitch anywhere. Circumstances favored
them; the weather was glorious and the
attendance the very best. And then a hor-
rible thing was whispered into the ear of the
young bachelor. Two of the most notorious
ladies of the town were fluttering their most
garish finery and airing fheir most profes-
sional manners in the tnrong! Soon there
were scandalised “Ohs!” from matrons and
sly winks and prods from old boys; the shy
and scholarly recluse was a gay young dog,
after all! Then sniffing mas began to gather
up their daughters and to toll pas to take
them away at once; and further whispers
reached the gubernatorial ear, which by tins
time was the color of beetroot, and strong
measures were ordered immediately. Hap-
pily the ladies made no fuss about it; they
had had their fun, they had (they hoped)
made some new friends; and they were pre-
pared to go. Then, of course, inquiry had
to be made as to how the dreadful creatures
came to be on the premises ; and now, after
a long wait, you’ll find out how the “S. M.
Herald” came to be connected with —well,
with that sort of lady. “Mr. James,” —that
is, the present “Mr. Warwick’s” grandfather
—had decided, the afternoon being so fine, to
walk up Hunter-street to Macquarie-street
and so to Government House; and he
had reached the gates when two young
ladies in great distress broke to him
the appalling news that they’d lost their
invitation to the garden party. Between
sobs they begged if Mr. Fairfax would pass
them through on his invitation. And Mr.
James, who thought no evil, and would have
had to have a lady of this sort plainly
labelled before it would even enter his mind
to suspect what she was, said, “Why, cer-
tainly, my dear young ladies”—he had got
their names by this time —and under Mr.
James’s wing they sailed into their harbor.
What the Earl said when he found out how
it had all happened, and what Mr. James
said, and what the Earl said after that
has long been forgotten; but there
were strained relations between the houses
of Lygon and of Fairfax from that day even
unto Lord Beauchamp’s departure.
He $ & ❖
“Pawang”: The theft of seven Japanese
shell-parrots from the home of Dr. Mer-
rillees, of the Vic. Health' Department, where
they were being used for investigation into
the incidence of psittacosis, recalls a some-
what similar incident in Sydney six years
ago, when some Belgian hares and guinea
pigs were stolen from the Prince Alfred
Hospital. If the thief intended to eat a
portion of his spoil what he read in next
morning’s newspaper may well have caused
him to change his plans, for the medical
officer concerned made it known that the
animals had been infected with deadly germs
for experimental purposes. The birds stolen
from Dr. Merrillees are believed to have
parrot cholera.
As The Bulletin has explained already, it
didn’t think it quite a fair thing in these
times to ask some of its readers to pay for
two Bulletins in one week; so the usual
Christmas extra will be dropped, and the
material gathered during the year for it will
be distributed over the ordinary issues in
December. The Dec. 3 number, which will
be nominally the Christmas Bulletin, will
include, among other things, and besides the
regular features, the first instalment of
Henry Lawson’s vivid autobiography, never
before published; the New Year number
(Dec. 31) will contain the second and con-
cluding instalment of it. Readers of this
frank story will know Australia’s greatest
writer as they were never able to know him
before. Every number of The Bulletin in
December will be enriched with original
drawings by the most famous of its artists,
including Norman Lindsay, Low and Alt’
Vincent. Very few of the late Mr. Vin-
cent’s drawings remain unpublished ; for his
and many other well-known artists’ work
The Bulletin’s portfolios of over 2500 un-
published drawings—many of them reserved
for Christmas and special numbers—will be
drawn upon.
THE FIRST TAR OF SUMMER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now indeed ’tis “Enter, Summer,” in the
argot of the mummer ;
Now the curtain falls for certain on the
arch-enchantress Spring.
Some there are might call it sweaty. Others
will prefer the pretty
Phrase of Dante G. Rossetti: “Earth
grows warm for harvesting.”
Now the cockie takes his yearly tribute of
the wheat and barley,
Reaping, binding late and early—Sundays
also, if he choose.
And the city-dweller, darting to and fro,
knows Spring’s departing
Just as sure as summer’s starting—by
the tar upon his shoes.
O, there’s many a sign and token, felt and
smelt and writ and spoken ;
Bees are humming summer’s coming; chif-
fons call it from the shops.
Once again we pay the prices for our season-
able vices
In the shape of creamy ices or robustious
malt and hops.
Beds of gorgeous flowers are blazing in
variety amazing;
Natty bathing suits are routed out of
wardrobes’ dim retreats;
Sheiks and naiads seek the surged—and the
cursed tar emerges,
Most detestable of scourges, out of half
a hundred streets.
Summer’s here and spring is outed ! Ponder
on the truth undoubted.
See where the hydrangea’s sprouted, note
the jaearanda drop.
Twig the positively Phrygian cap that crests
the gaudy pigeon,
Cast your eye upon the helmet, snowy-
white, that roofs the cop.
Summer’s here for all to know it, hardy
husbandman or poet,
Evidences plain to show it incontestably
there are....
But I would my boots were clodded with
the loam through which I’d plodded
Rather than befouled and wadded with
this vilely viscous tar.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Hamer”: One of Sydney’s forgotten
churches was rediscovered when the walls
of houses built around it were pulled down
to make room for street-widening in New-
town, It was an early-day Methody Bethel,
and has been used for over 50 years first as
a cabinet-maker’s workshop and more
EXTENSION, PLEASE!
“Well, old thing, I must kiss you good-bye
until to-morrow.”
“Oh, kiss me until to-morrow week!”
recently by a sign-painter. Sydney has many
abandoned churches. The original St.
Francis’s, Paddington, descended to tin:
status of a wood-and-coal store; and an old
Anglican church in the same suburb was
occupied for decades by a furniture carrier.
Glebe’s very oldest place of worship,
St John’s, was converted into a workmen’s
club. The worst fate of all overtook a
Surry Hills tabernacle. After it had ceased
to be a place of worship for some years a
purchaser was found. The place still re-
mained apparently empty and. unused until
a night when the police made a raid. They
found a two-up school in full blast in the
dark interior.
HIS HANDICAP.
“I had all my homework sums right. That’s more than you can say.”
“So yer ought. You’ve got a big brother, and I’ve only got a father.”
“Mamba” : Rockhampton (Q.) is rejoicing
over the slaying of a 15ft. crocodile, an old
occupant of the Fitzroy ’River, which runs
through the city. Rocky, has long been
celebrated for its crocodiles; the late Brun-
ton Stephens enshrined one specimen in
verse some GO years ago. The killer of the
latest of the clan was evidently obsessed
with the notion that the crocodile is clad
in almost impenetrable mail, since he used
“steel-tipped bullets” for shooting him.
There never was a croc, yet who was
impervious to an ordinary lead bullet with a
charge of black powder behind it. Writer
has shot dozens of them on the Papuan
rivers with a .32 Winchester, a not excep-
tionally high-powered rifle.
* * * *
“Macquarie Street” : They were very tame
proceedings before the N.S.W. Medical BoarcJ
when it inquired whether Dr. Chisholm Ross
is, as Justice Davidson alleged, a disgrace
to his profession and a menace to the com-
munity. The whole business had only two
bright spots. One was when Jack Cassidy,
the young barrister who defended the old
doctor, said gravely that he did not propose
to call evidence as to the character or repu-
tation of Dr. Ross —a very neat touch, in
view of the Judge’s charges. The other
occurred in the doctor’s own evidence. _ The
case over which all the trouble arose hinged
on the testamentary capacity of an old
squatter who had married his nurse and left
her his property. He was obviously in a
pretty bad way at times. Could a man like
that be of testamentary capacity?—that. is
to say, could he know what he was doing
when he made a will? “Yes,” said Ross,
definitely. “And more than that —a man cer-
tified insane may be of testamentary cap-
acity.” It was almost startling in its
unexpectedness; but alienists who know how
sane the insane can be on some subjects and
at some times will agree that Ross was right.
If encouraged he might have gone further
and declared that there are men—-thousands
of them —-whose sanity has not been officially
questioned who yet are really not of testa-
mentary capacity. He might even have
doubted whether a Supreme Court Judge can
be trusted to be intelligent on all points.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: There is something of
a parallel in the Argentine to the case of
the European soldiers left on the island of
Ivissar to work out their own destiny (B.
12/11/’3O). The British expeditionary
force which captured Buenos Ayres in 18013
found itself unable to hold the city _ against
Liniers and his gauchos. Accordingly it
surrendered under promise of safe conduct,
but Liniers broke his word and sent the
invaders into the interior. They were
marched over pampa, saltpan and thorny
desert to San Juan de la Frontera, a mining
and agricultural settlement in the foothills
of the Andes, about 700 miles from the capi-
tal. Hemmed in by the Cordilleras on one
side and hundreds of miles of desert infested
with hostile Indians on the other, they soon
recognised that escape was impossible.
Accordingly each man took unto himself a
wife, mostly Indian or half-caste, and
assumed the responsibilities of citizenship.
The descendants of those Britons have be-
come so thoroughly merged in the native
population that they show little trace of
their northern ancestry. When you meet
a man named Rhys, Ross, Rafferty, or Robin-
son in San Juan and address him in English
he is pretty certain to explain with .many
apologies that, apart from a smattering of
French, he knows no language but. Spanish.
Only his name is left to tell of his origin.
“Uramao”: I well remember when Lord
Iteidhaven succeeded to the earldom of Sea-
field 50 years ago (B. 15/10/'80). I, too,
lived at Oamaru (M.L.). The Grants’
section adjoined, that of my parents,
and the boy Grants were playmates of mine.
The silvertails of the town, who had looked
down their noses at James Ogilvie Grant
and regarded him as an eccentric who har-
bored illusions about his aristocratic
lineage, chopped round when they discovered
he was a real sprig of the old nobility. To
his credit, however, he preferred the friends
of his adversity to his new-found admirers.
James Grant was the eldest son —he subse-
quently succeeded his father in the title —and
his stock among the youth of Oamaru went
un enormously, due mainly to the arrival of
a miniature ordinary bicycle (front wheel
about four feet high, back wheel one foot),
a present from Scottish relatives. Much
blood flowed from our noses as a result of
the future earl, his bike and ourselves get-
ting into ditches and being impaled on '
tops, and many were the beltings f „
from parents on arriving home with c L
tattered and bodies bruised. ...
“2nd Divvy”: Civilians will be
surprised to learn by cable th.
corporal who “for seven years- -
borne a blameless character w< _•
eourt-martialled at Aldershot ‘
severely punished for playing b *»
with men of lower rank, coil ‘.lf
to good order and military dis
pline.” For an n.c.o. to P la A “
child’s card game with private s
diers is of course no crime, ci
or military, and that was why -
soldier was charged under
40 of the Army Act—the notor.ous
"Dragnet Section.” The Army Ac.
stipulates that “no person shall o
charged under Section 40 m
spect of any offence for which
special provision is made m any
other part of this Act.” In
words, it is there to enable CoA
to get convictions against tho&c
who are not law-breakers. A-l.i .
adjutants, when out for blood,
always tacked a charge of conduce
to the prejudice” on to anything
else with which an undesirab 1
character was charged, and so made
escape impossible. The two mos
unedifying features of army life are
favoritism and indifference by those
on top to the rights of the men
under them, and Section 40 encour-
aged both. I have seen officers anu
other ranks punished under the
Dragnet” who had done nothing
but offend someone in authority,
and I have seen others get away
with habitual drunkenness, and
worse, because . they were uselui
men or popular in the riglitquarter.
“Q.Q.” : When the German mark
was falling its hardest I bought a
bundle of the currency. One of the
prize efforts of the Teutonic wealth
manufacturers was a note ioi
“funfmillionen.” At the pre-w a:
rate of exchange it was worth
£245,000. On the afternoon ot
issue you could buy 27 shillings
worth of goods with it, next morn-
ing it was worth a pound, a couple
of weeks later it was worth five
shillings, and finally, when the, mark was
repudiated and the whole issue was made
redeemable at the rate of one shilling casn
for 50,000,000,000 paper marks, a lorryload
of it was not worth the cost of cartage to
the Treasury I papered a small room with
mv lot. It is open to inspection by any
member of the Federal Ministry who believes
in inflation.
* * * *
“X.S.’': At the Supreme Court, Geelong,
six men were being charged with breaking
into a shop and purloining a quantity of
wine. One man on oath asserted that they
had drunk nothing but “Old Judge, ’ and
the Crown Prosecutor asked him what the
label on the bottle was like. _ “Pike the
gentleman sitting in , the chair,” remarked
the visitor, pointing to Justice Macfarlan.
* * -!•' *
“Strousers” : Nobody grudges world-cross-
ing aviators their limelight, but the pilots
of escort ’planes should at least receive some
mention. Owen, now of the Shell Co., covered
well over 11,000 miles —more than the dis-
tance from London to Darwin—in his flights
to meet Matthews and Hill, who, of course,
didn’t arrive. This over one of the most
difficult countries in the world for an airman
and without the slightest accident.
USING HIS NUT.
HIS LITTLE WIFE: “It’s the Hodges—to know if we will go there and play bridge, or
will they come over here?”
HER BIG MAN: “Let us go over there, and then when we get fed up we can come home.”
INTERIM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Though nothing they tell you succeeds like
success,
I have doubts about that;
Too often it wears an illusory dress
And the triumph falls flat.
I have had charges paid and covered the
tracks
And been served- after that with an order th
tax, ■ -
And I’m shy of success that is built on the
whim .
Of a judge of “first instance” and called
“interim.”
The Solon who first of all handles your case
Has a tractable mind ;
His tone’s sympathetic, with more than a
trace
Of the blandly inclined.
He smilingly says: “I daresay you’re right,
And at least you have put up a picturesque
fight.
The question approaches the ‘yesrand-no’
border.”
So he gives a “leg-in” with an interim order.
In the law, as in life, are delusions that
cheat,
Like “first blood to you.”
If the other stays down or gets chilled in
the feet,
. His chances are blue.
Says your client, impressed, “We’re winning
—so far!”
And he celebrates that at the handiest bar.
Thus you kid yourselves victors, nail flags
to the masts,
And your interim order brings joy—while
it lasts.
But, alas! The case gets to a court of
appeal
(The higher the worse).
And the longer it’s argued more impulse
you feel
To order the hearse.
Your promising order is torn to mere rags
And thrown out with one of those terse little
tags:
“Rights of appellants declared and enlarged.
And interim order, with costs, is discharged.”
Poor solace it is in that trial of strength
And contentious buzz
If one Judge dissents and at very great
length
Explains why he does.
I prefer the success, evanesccntly thrilling.
The verdict, sans costs, with damage one
shilling.
Mens conscia recti may be poor reward,
But spare me success branded “Interim
ord.”
s.a.
BILL O’COSTS.


, 1
X Oh, MICE, IS it!
Li “Puss, PUSS-*
HOME
AT ONCE !
4-
Mw THE- CAT Comes &ack. .
—— \ >*
V tl LOOK OUT, COMRADES/-! SMELL A* .
“WHEN THE CAT’S AWAY”—(IN FIVE ACTS).
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
“Perplexities of Australia”
Under this heading the October monthly
circular of the great National City Bank of
New York discusses our problems at con-
siderablo length ; and the observations are
IK&'TSTc oSe«a£rS
S I——I! ■
' The circular ope„ P S W:-
It is -worthy of attention by those who think that
greater stability in affairs might be assured by an
increase of Government activity m business, that a
large part of the disorder now existing is traceable to
mistaken governmental policies. Not to mention the
war, which has been the chief factor in disorder in
the last 16 years, and which was an affair between
Governments, ill-advised legislation to stimulate pro-
duction, and in support of ill-considered schemes
for the supposed advancement of social interests,
probably has had more than all else to do with
bringing on the existing depression.
Australia is in as difficult a situation as any
country at this time, as a result of over-free govern-
mentai expenditures for hastening the country’s
development and for various social purposes, some
of which perhaps are quite worthy, but beyond
present resources. The voters have had idealistic
visions of improving living conditions by raising
money wages and internal prices and through numer-
ous experiments at the expense of the taxpayers. The
Commonwealth and the States composing it, having
good credit, borrowed large sums interest
upon which, together with the amounts representing
importations of foreign goods, must be regularly
covered by Australian exports, mainly wool, meats,
wheat and other agricultural products. The heavy
fall in the prices of these products in the last year
has resulted in a large adverse balance of payments
and a serious deficit in governmental revenues, bring-
ing the country face to face with the necessity for a
polices reductlon of expendltures a,,d rev,slon of
And ' nel d _
‘ Australia has been living upon a scale of expendi-
tures made possible by an influx of capital borrowed
abroad, instead of produced and saved at home. This
is a very common human weakness, in fact the secret
of boom prosperity, but the attempt always comes to
the same end. Now a radical change of policies is
necessary. The most searching policy of economy
must be adopted. Governmental salaries and wages
must be reduced, superfluous employees eliminated,
and unnecessary functions abandoned. At the moment,
the remedy must intensify the depression, for it
makes more unemployment and scales down expendi-
tures which have the merit of putting money into
circulation, if nothing more. But the country must
get back to first principles.
t-, . ¥ ~
The Eternal Laws of Money
. “Historicus”: The Bulletin’s sugges-
tion that gold is not the only practicable
basis of currehcv or even demonstrably the
most suitable, gets a good deal of corrobora-
tion from history, ancient and modern. To
deal with the modern first, one of the many
erudite committees of the League of Nations
recently issued a report expressing the con-
viction that if, and when, the world gets
over its present price-slump, there won’t be
enough gold in existence to serve as a
basis for international exchanges a reflee-
tion which ought to be comforting to
those large regions in Africa and Asia
where salt is, as it has been for centuries,
the. basis of exchange. There are parts of
China where tea briquettes are the currency,
and at least one region in tropical Africa
where tins of condensed milk serve a similar
purpose.
European nations have tried many sorts
of currency. Stamped slices of leather cir-
eulated at one time in some of the German
kingdoms. Holland in 1574 made use of
pasteboard discs, doubtless the notion of a
monarch with strong- inflationist proclivities,
and Czar Nicholas, who had eclectic tastes,
toyed awhile with a coinage of platinum.
Sweden once upon a time furthered its
ideals of physical culture with an all-copper
coinage, the biggest unit of which was an
oblong slab 2ft. by Ift., weighing 301 b.
Too little attention lias been paid to the
economic side of history, and it isn’t very
clear how these non-gold currencies worked.
Only a few general rules emerge from the
mists —'Gresham's law that bad money drives
out good; a law, not often stated, but borne
out by the records of all ages, races and
climes, that interest rates, risks considered,
don’t show much variation from century to
century; and a law that, no matter what
basis of currency is adopted, its purchasing
power will grow less. There was a time in
England when a sheep could be bought for
a groat (4d.), and a bushel of wheat for fd.
Competition in Proprietary Lines
Dear Bulletin, —-As a retailer , I was in-
terested in your discussion (B. 29/10/’3O)
of the advantages of the manufacturer boom-
ing the market for the, article bearing his
trade name. Quite right; but it has not
always worked out well. Suppose an Aus-
tralian mill, by skilful sales organisation and
intelligent advertising, creates a demand for,
say, a swimming suit at a price above the
average of recent years. My customers want
this line; I put stocks of it on my shelves
and in my windows. Then, in the height of
summer, wdien sales should be at their peak,
the retailer across the road commences to
price-cut; the inevitable war results, and I
have to sacrifice legitimate profit to get
clear of my stock. This has happened only
too frequently in the past with well-known
proprietary lines; my stocks of trade-name
shirts, hats, socks, shoes, underwear, etc.,
have all suffered in this way. For that rea-
son I prefer to see my own name on my
goods; I know my competitor cannot stock
them.
The success of an advertising campaign
from the manufacturer’s end will depend on
the latter requiring his customers to enter
into a substantial bond to maintain prices
that will permit of legitimate trading.—
Yours, etc., Piiilm.
Preserved Foods in Malaya
“Advance Australia” (Selangor, Malay
States) : I regularly see shipments of Aus-
tralian fruit in the Kuala Lumpur market;
but it is not the No. 1 grade which I know
to be procurable at home. English people
here look rather sceptical when I tell them
it is about No. 3 grade stuff. They can’t
understand people exporting any but the
best, the worst costing just as much fox-
freight, etc. I have never seen any but
high-grade S. African produce here. But our
fruit is mostly Californian, and does not
compare with Australian in flavor. Now
that Australian summer fruits are coming
in I should like to see some really good
Australian muscatel grapes shipped. They
are unknown here. Also choice peaches;
the things we have had are poor, leathery
objects.
I have yet to taste a sausage that wili
come up to the Australian. I wonder
why Australian makers don’t get into touch
with the Singapore Cold Storage, the chief
food importers in that line. We get only
English smallgoods; they are not first-class.
My heart was very sad yesterday on going
into a Chinese store to see a box of opened
tins of a well-known Australian brand of
butter—all condemned! Of course, butter
needs careful packing and handling, but
Danish brands can and do survive it. It
will therefore be a long time before this
Chinaman will try Australian again.
Much the same thing happens with Aus-
tralian jam. I buy a well-known brand
from Tasmania, but it varies considerably
in flavor and color, especially the marmalade.
Farm Implements
“Wayback”: Australian manufacturers of
farming machinery produce an implement
and place it on the market; they number
and catalogue all its parts, stating prices
at which these can be obtained. After buy-
ing a certain machine and using it for a
time, you urgently require some part. You
write to the manufacturers. They refer
you back to an agent in your district. You
go to the agent, and most times he has
neither the part on hand nor can he quote
you a price for same, although he should
be able to do both, especially in a district
where numbers of these machines have been
sold and are in use. Although you urgently
require the part to enable you to use the
machine, most times you cannot get it until
too late, and it is of no use to you for that
season, in spite of the fact that you had
allowed ample time for procuring it. There
are not many farmers who cannot back this
statement.
I am a great believer in home industries;
but at times they sorely try my patience.
Roads in .China are classified as good for
ten years and bad for ten thousand, and
motorists in Victoria use similar expressions
in classifying local highways. But this is
too empirical for Major McCormack, of tlio
Country Roads Board, so he has been experi-
menting with a device called the “rougho-
meter.” This is a vertical rack attached
to the front axle of a motor-car and a pinion
on the chassis. In moving up and down
with the movements of the springs, the i*ack
rotates the pinion which is in communica-
tion through a free-wheeling device with a
counter which records the vertical movement.
The readings give a much more accurate
account of the real condition of a road than
the bad language of the average motorist,
and it will thus be possible to keep accurate
data concerning every thoroughfare under
the board’s jurisdiction. ' The rougliometer
was constructed here, and has already traced
the condition of the roads between Mel-
bourne, Albury, Bakes Entrance, Warrnam-
bool, Stawell and Wycheproof.
:<c :*c * *
“Gelt”: The Commonwealth Government
has suspended for one vear the payments of
instalments on properties acquired recently by
tender in Mandated New Guinea, and the big
firms—B.-P. and Carpenter—have reduced
their interest rate from 8 per cent, to 5 per
cent. Something of this kind had to happen in
view of the big drop in copra, and parti-
cularly in view of the mad prices that some
of the estates brought. In the third group
of expropriated plantations the custodian’s
upset value for the lot was £584,407; the ten-
ders amounted to £1,178,508. No wonder
the planters have found the going rough!
*** . *
“Sylvanus”: The London “News-Chron-
icle” notes that home-grown timber is scarcer
and dearer than ever before in the U.lv.;
English oak in particular is so hard to come
by that high prices are paid for the beams and
fittings taken from old buildings when they
are demolished. It adds that experts have
pronounced the Australian silky oak equally
as good, very durable and distinguished-look-
ing for furniture, while the tougher Tas-
manian oak is given a good word for floor
material. The red-pine of Maoriland is com-
pared to satin-walnut, deemed one of the
most perfect of timbers ; and Empire wood
generally is eulogised as being as beautiful
as any the world can produce.
* * * *
A note from Pelaeo, Ltd.: —
Apropos the genesis of this co. (B. 29/10/’3O), the
originator of the now well-known Pelaeo blackfellow
was The Bulletin’s old contributor M. P. Adams
(“Storky”). He thought-the idea, out, viz., a black-
fellow in a white shirt, a striking contrast, and one
that he felt sure would appeal to Australians. A.
1. Mockeridge made the original sketch for him
and designed the first poster.
$ * * *
“E.W.1.” (Los Angeles) : The Canadian
Pacific Railway, which pays a dividend to its
stockholders of 10 per cent., shows a net
profit for the eight months ended August 31
of more than £3,175,000, the net profit for
August alone being £652,000. Yet the co.
has spent the remarkable sum of £73,200,000
in the last ten years on development work,
including a tunnel in the Selkirk mountains
(£1,600,000) and the building and improving
of hotels (£8,400,000). The co. pays taxa-
tion to the Canadian Government at the
rate of nearly £5OOO a day. On the other
hand, the Government-owned Canadian
National Railway, which pays no national
taxation, has borrowed £150,000,000 from the
Dominion from 1923 to Y 929, and in 1929 the
loss was more than £9,000,000.
* * * *
Any day now we may expect to _ hear a
call for an embargo on importations of
eucalyptus oil. Already Spain, with well-
grown groves and picturesque and penurious
labor, is supplying world centres with oil
that undersells Australian. America is_ almost
self-supplying. Italy and South Africa are
largely cultivating good oil-bearing gums.
Without a Protective tariff the day when one
could take an axe, a couple of tanks and set up
an oil factory in the bush will soon .be over.
* * * *
“J.M.K.” (Montreal, Canada) : Food in-
spectors of our city discovered lately that
patrons of some of the eating-houses were
being regaled with “rabbit pie” that con-
tained plain eat. It seems about time that
Priminister Scullin began negotiations with
Quebec’s Premier Taschereau for an export
rabbit trade.
* * * *
The Fiji Development Co., founded by
Henry Marks, has put up the shutters. It
took over the Tova estate of some 80,000
acres on Yiti Levu, and erected a canning
and preserving factory, the cattle and sheep
coming from the estate. Though a good trade
was built up with Samoa. Tonga and other
neighbors, it was not sufficient to carry the
enterprise, which resulted in a heavy loss
to the founder.


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
7he Standard oi Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuss
Detonators
Cartridges
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
NOW IS THE TIME TO CHOOSE
-
Sterling Silver and Enamel mounted
Scissors and Thimble in
case
35/6
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS, LTD.,
XMAS GIFTS
Fairfax & Roberts draw
special attention to a
large and carefully selected
range of articles suitable
for Xmas Gift purposes.
Many unique and exclusive
novelties, in addition to
regular items of jewellery,
watches, necklets, etc., etc.,
are available. The gift
suggestion illustrated is a
splendid article, being most
attractive, useful and prac-
tically everlasting.
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney.”
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Lavington Bonython, Adelaide’s retiring
Mayor, will always be remembered as the
pioneer, nearly 80 years' ago, of the invasion
of the city’s Corporation by unusually young
men, mostly with fathers better known (at
the time) than themselves. Not all of them
have cared to take the mayoral chair when
their turn came, but Bonython has held it
at various times since 1911, for five years
in all. Glover, who is elected without opposi-
tion to succeed him, comes back for a sixth
term, spread over the years since 1917 But
nobody has approached Lewis Cohen’s record
of nine.
One report of la ( st week’s meeting of the
Loan Council represents Westralian Pre-
mier Mitchell as “sitting back with half-
closed eyes.” Mitchell has always been
credited, as was the late George Reid, with
the capacity for taking 40 winks at almost
any time or place, although, also like Reid
he is liable to show at any moment that his
somnolence is only simulated. It is quite
likely, however, that he would find the de-
liberations of a Loan Council a trifle boring.
Jimmy differs from all the other members
of the Council in that he was a banker for
20 years before he became a politician.
Ivingsford Smith owes his Christian
name to his maternal grandfather, Richard
Asli Kingsford, a one-time Queensland
M.L.A. Returned to the Assembly as a sup-
porter of Sam Griffith, Kingsford presently
crossed the floor to the Mcllwraitli-Macros-
san combination. This, cost him his South
Brisbane scat, and in. 1888 he tried his luck
in Cairns, where his son-in-law, the
recently-deceased William Charles Smith,
was a bank manager. Kingsford was de-
feated by the printers’ ink manufacturer
Fred T. Wimble, and dropped out of politics.
.James Cowan, foremost living authority on
Maori traditions and customs, is of Irish
descent and was brought up in a North
Island district, the Waikato, which simply
seethes with Maoris. The Irish and the
Maori temperaments are much akin, and
Cowan while yet a boy developed an absorb-
ing interest in the history of the broAvn race.
He early learned the Maori tongue and won
the confidence of toliungas and old chiefs,
who told him things few other white men
would be given a chance of learning. Cowan,
JAMES COWAN, of Maoriland.
who is a journalist by profession, began his
career as a writer on the staff of the Auck-
land “Star.” He is the author of a score of
books on the Maoris and other Polynesian
tribes, and edited the publications of the
M.L. Tourist Department for a while. One
of the most taciturn of men, it is difficult
to get him to talk even about the subjects he
has so close at heart. He converses fluently
only in Maori. He passed his sixtieth mile-
stone this year.
Von Bertouch, an Adelaide lawyer who has
died suddenly on his office staircase, was
remarkable for bearing the initials of the
Real Property Act. This is the name that
S.A. rather ungratefully gives to the Torrens
Act, though it was in the Central State that
Torrens originated it. It w T as a new thing
when Von Bertouch was born, 62 years back,
and his parents gave him the names Rudolph
Paul Albrecht.
The vacant C. of E. see of Newcastle
has been offered, after one or two
misfires, to Coadjutor Bishop de Witt
Batty, of Brisbane, who has held his
office since Bishop Le Fanu left it
to become Archbishop of Perth. Batty,
who has been 26 years in the Brisbane
diocese, has three brothers in the Church;
one is vicar of Christ Church, Mayfair.
Dr. D. B. Copland, an economist who
has lately, by means of newspaper articles,
been endeavoring
to instil into the
mind of the man
in the street some
notion of the
mechanism that
actuates mod e r n
systems of cur-
rency, credit and
commerce, is a
graduate of Can-
te r b u r y College,
C h ri stchurch
(M.L.).. An un-
assuming, likeable
sort of chap who
gets as much
knowledge out of
the men he meets
as out of the books
he reads, Copland
takes an intensely
practical view of
the science he in-
terprets. One of
his earliest books
was “Wheat Pro-
duction in New
Zealand,” which at
the time of publi-
cation (1920) said
the last word on
the subject, and is
still a highly-
regarded textbook.
The author has
also been a steady
contributor to the
literature of Work-
e r s’ Educational
Associations in
various parts of
Professor COPLAND.
Australasia. From the Shivery Isles he
migrated to the Tassy Uni., and when Mel-
bourne Uni. established a Chair of Commerce
it hadn’t much difficulty in deciding that he
ought to be the first occupant. He is one of
the very few economists who also possess
the degree of D.Sc.
G. J. Fyke, the Melbourne bookseller who
disappeared off the Balranald a day out from
Malta, was Australia’s leading authority on
synthetic languages. One of his hobbies was
wandering through the streets of foreign
capitals looking for students of artificial
lingos, and he attended many Esperanto
congresses in Europe. A play in Esperanto
written by Pyke was performed at Copen-
hagen and Paris.
The late Bishop Langley had occasion
once. to mildly rebuke a parishioner who was
making things unpleasant for everybody at
a church congress. “I know my way about
as well as any clergyman,” remarked the
trouble-maker, “I am a self-made man.”
“Then you have relieved the Creator of a
terrible responsibility,” commented the
bishop.
Grosvenor Francis is mentioned as a likely
Nationalist candidate for the Brisbane sear
in the I-louse of Reps, when Donald Cam-
eron retires. Francis is the lawyer who
used to hang out a shingle at Charters
Towers, and fluked into the House as mem-
ber for Kennedy when Charlie McDonald
died. He made such a good showing that
he held a distinctly Labor constituency in
a straight-out fight, and only had his colors
lowered by David Riordan last year. Bris-
bane will not be easy to hold, but Francis
might do it.
Fred Johns, Australia’s best-known bio-
grapher, is leader of S.A.’s “Hansard” staff
in his spare time. He has just finished his
17th year in the job. In all that period he
has not missed a single sitting of the House,
and his absences while business has been
in progress have reached four hours. For
a long while the aggregate was only 21
hours; but Johns had a li-hour spell of
sickness lately.
Bir Herbert Austin, the English motor
company director, spent half a dozen years
in Melbourne when he was growing to man-
hood. He arrived in 1884, a lad of 17, and
served his apprenticeship to engineering at
Langland’s foundry. His first patent was
taken out a year later for a locking-plate
for railway fishplate bolts. Austin returned
to England in 1890 to control the manufac-
ture of Wolseley sheep-shearing machines.
Ten years later he embarked on the manu-
facture of motor-cars on his own account at
Birmingham., He married a Melbourne girl.
R. T. E. Latham, elder son of the Oppo-
sition leader in the Repsi, has been chosen
as Vic. Rhodes Scholar for 1931. From
Scotch .College he passed on to Melbourne
Uni., where he graduated with first-class
honors last year, and he was president of
the Students’ Representative Council. Like
most recent Rhodes Scholars, Latham is three
or four years older than the average Oxford
freshman.
Died in London the other day, R. L.
Outhwaite, a Tasmanian who had spent half
his 60 years in the Old Country. His ambi-
tion was a seat in the House of Commons,
and he realised it at his third try, becoming
Liberal member for Hanley in the Parlia-
ment that saw the war begin and end.
One of Adelaide’s leading business men was
W. H. Stevenson, a Rundle-street jeweller,
dead at 75. He gave his whole life to the
business, now a co., but found time to sup-
port various sports. In particular, he was
for many years official timekeeper at the
inter-collegiate athletics.
Colonel Savige, one of the candidates for
the Balaclava (Vic.) seat, saw service with
the famous Dunsterforce in Persia. He is
immediate past-president of the Legacy
Club, the Digger organisation which was
formed from a luncheon club, and lias taken
over the job of looking after the orphans
of fallen soldiers.
“Sturt”: Adelaide is chuckling over the
new crimson gladiolus, boosted by the im-
porters as “Bill Sowden, hailed as the most
celebrated red in England, Canada and the
LT.S.A.,” because this is the pet name of
W. J. Sowden, former editor of the “Regis-
ter” and president of a host of public bodies.
Archdeacon F. G. Neild, about to celebrate
his jubilee as a shepherd, has spent most of
his clerical life in the far west of N.S.W.
and reckons that he has travelled nearly a
quarter of a million miles to hold services.
He is a brother of “Jawbone” Neild, who
was the champion long-distance speaker in
the N.S.W. Parliament before he became
one of the State’s first Senators.
For years Teddy Needham, who began his
Parliamentary career by serving a term in
the Westralian Assembly as member for Fre-
mantle, was a trusty colleague of George
Pearce in the Federal Senate. But the Labor
split of 1916 left them on different sides of
the fence, and while Pearce has had a smooth
passage ever since Teddy lias had a rough
one. He lost his Senate seat in T 9, and
though lie regained it in ’22, the electors dis-
pensed with him again last year, otherwise
he would have been certain of a portfolio
under Scullin. Needham, however, sticks
tight to the Perth Trades Hall in his adver-
sity, and is confident that his time will come
again. Ho is 56.
A picturesque Sydney figure in George
Arthur Blix, P.M., has retired from the
Metropolitan Traffic Court, the age-limit cur-
few having tolled. Blix was born in Charl-
ton House, Woollahra, which was brought
by his grandfather ready-made for erection
from England.
It was S. R.
Whitford, the S.
Aus. Minister for
Agriculture, who
proposed that a
Federal sales tax
should be put on
flour so that farm-;
ers might get an-
other sevenpence
per bushel for
their wheat. The
Federal Caucus,
however, without
hearing Whitford,
turned the plan
down ; and on pre-
se n t appearances
farmers will have
to starve on the
2s. 2d. or there-
abouts which is ah
they can get in the
open market.
Whitford, who
knows all about
the practical part
of the business,
had Professor Per-
kins behind him in
drafting his scheme.
Perkins is the very
capable administra-
tor who came to S.
Aus. as a vine and
wine expert, but
was passed over to
the headmastership
of the Rosoworthy
Agricultural Col-
lege, and has done
great things for
the S.A. farmer.
Like thousands
more in S.A. Whit-
ford is one of his
“boys.”
S. R. WHITFORD,
who fathered the
wheat-bonus scheme.
An old couple of Avon Brook, Armidale
(N.S.W.), Mr. and Mrs. John Brazier, claim
190 living descendants, which must be some-
thing near a record in these days of falling
birth-rates. The Braziers have 13 children
still alive, exactly 100 grandchildren and 77
great-grandchildren.
Gone on his last voyage from the port o
Adelaide, Alfred Major Mars, mastoi
mariner. In spite of his martial name, he
saw no fighting except as a boy at the long-
ago bombardment of Alexandria. He was £
surveyor for Lloyd’s in London and tnen
for many years at Port Pirie (S.A.L 11CI
with the Marine Underwriters’ Association
at Port Adelaide.
Everard, Menzies and Downward are the
three members of Vic. Assembly whose dads
were in the House before them. Knox’s sire
was in the Leg. Council before going into the
Reps. Davis and the two Clarkes (1 rank
and Russell) came into the House of Land-
lords after the grave had claimed their
fathers.
Joe Lamaro, the new Minister for Justice
in N. S. Wales, is one of the three barristers
in the Lang Ministry; times arc; changed
since a Labor Government had to appoint a
layman to a law portfolio. The Lamaros
have multiplied greatly in Sydney in both
LAMARO, Lang’s Minister for Justice.
numbers and substance. They were among
the earlier Italian immigrants who set up
in the fruit trade. Young Joe was a public-
school teacher for a while, and it was then
he began the Uni, studies which the war inter-
rupted, but which afterwards led on to
degrees in both arts and laws.
George Pearce is the only Westralian
Senator who didn’t begin his political career
in the State Parliament. Of the others
Colebatch and Carroll were formally Leg.
Councillors, and Lynch and Johnson Assem-
blymen ; Kingsmill lias sat in both the State
Houses. Of the five Westralian Reps., Gre-
gory and Texas Green are ex-Assemblymen;
the other three, Prowse, Nairn and Curtin,
have had no State legislative experience.
J, W. Kir wan, Westralia’s Leg. Council
President, is one of the steadily decreasing
band of men who were returned to the
Commonwealth’s first Parliament, 30 years
ago. H'is first term was his only one; and
George Reid lost a firmly attached follower
when the Kalgoorlie division replaced Kirwan
with a Labor man (the late Charley Frazer j
in 1903. This was a sore blow for Kirwan
at the time, but he rallied after a few years,
obtained a Leg. Council seat in 1908 and
has hung on to it ever since. As a politician
his strong suit is canniness; personally lie
has always been popular, and he has studied
Parliamentary forms and usages more closely
than most.
It would be rather difficult to name a
Tasmanian who has exercised any real influ-
ence in mainland affairs since Braddon put
his “blot” into the Commonwealth Constitu-
tion, although several have held minor posts
in Federal Cabinets. Joseph Lyons, Scullin’s
Treasurer, looks like a man who will have
to be counted with in the near future, how-
ever ; it might have been better for Scullin
if he had left Lyons in- command rather than
the stumbling, hesitant Fenton. Lyons had
one big advantage over all his Caucus com-
rades (except Theodore) when the present
Federal Ministry was being sorted out in
that he wasn’t new to office and responsi-
bility. He entered Speck politics over 20
years ago, was State Treasurer under Earle
in the early war years, and Premier from
1928 until the wheel turned against his
party. He is 51.
T. E. Meek, sec. of Vic. Treasury and
chairman of the State Superannuation
Board, retires from the Public Service this
month, at 65. He has had 47 years of it,
working his way up from the bottom of the
ladder.
Yorke’s Peninsula Barley Producers, Ltd.,
has become a big thing in S. Aus., and David
Blyth is its new superintendent. His former
post, manager of the George Wills Co.’s
grain and wool department,, is taken over by
P. R. B. Searcy, from the same co.’s ship-
ping branch. Blyth and Searcy are among
the oldest names in S.A. history.


SUSPENSE.
AUSTRALIA (in the dock): "I wish they’d make up their minds whether they’re going to hang me or let me go about my work.”


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Sons o’ Guns”
Criterion (com. Saturday) “Possessions”
State Movies and Talkies
*
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMTNG WEEK.
R° yal “The Cingalee”
Comedy “Peg o’ My Heart”
Tivoli “Vanity Fair”
® TATE Movies and Talkies
*
The Playbox Theatre has earned the fur-
ther thanks of the more intelligent section of
Sydney playgoers by introducing “The
Father,” acclaimed as the greatest of Strind-
berg’s plays. It is a study of the married
life of a middle-aged, neurotic cavalry cap-
tain who has spent his spare time investigat-
ing meteoric stones for traces of organic
life, and is verging on a breakdown. He is
married to Laura, who is jealous of her
husband’s scientific achievements, believing
that the fame which indisputably awaits
him at the completion ®f his research work
will tend to' overthrow her power over him.
She intercepts his mail and destroys his
orders for necessary textbooks. Her sharp-
est weapon is their daughter, a girl in her
’teens. It is the captain’s creed that there
rs no immortality except through one’s child-
ren ; that in the child the spirit of the person
who most dominated it lives for ever ; but
his efforts to guidh his daughter art
thwarted at every turn by Laura, who wants
complete control of the child. Laura, finding
that she is not making headway, begins to
scheme to bring about her husband’s confine-
ment in a mental asylum—Strindberg is here
more than usually autobiographical. She
sows in his mind the seeds of doubt concern-
ing the parentage of their daughter. Then
she suggests the possibility of falsehood on
her part. The distracted man, in his first
and only exhibition of physical revolt, hurls
a lamp at her. She retaliates by sum-
moning a medico who has been hovering
in the background and demanding a certi-
ficate of insanity. The medical gentleman
acquiesces, and after an interlude in which
his daughter recoils from him in horror, the
unhappy man dies. Strindberg was mad, and
his play is a mad play, but he has a grip on
psychological contests between man and
woman unequalled by any sane playwright.
The chief defects are the very unconvincing
doctor and the weakness of the husband, not
very understandable in a military man. As
the cavalry captain, Montgomery Stuart,
despite occasional lapses of memory, made
the part seem possible. Constance de Vere
as Laura did not altogether catch the Scan-
dinavian atmosphere. Myra Leard gave an
excellent picture of the old nurse. Everill
Donovan was a charming daughter and
John Fabre an acceptable doctor. “The
Father” will be repeated every Wednesday
and Saturday evening till the end of the
month.
* V *
The French-speaking community on Friday
evening flocked to the Playbox Theatre,
where, under the direction of Henri Segaert,
the Belgian Consul-General, members of the
Alliance Francaise presented “La Double
Passion,” by August Villeroy. This modern
EVA MOSS, a S’African lassie, who will play Lady Jesmond in
“Possessions” at Sydney Cri.
French drama deals with the eye-awakener
Denise Chantrel, an orphan, gets when she
is married to Robert Martigues. She would
have been far happier had she married her
cousin and guardian, Pascal Erivan, for the
scholarly Pascal and the charming and little
less intellectual Denise have much more in
common. Martigues engages in a shady land
transaction in which he seeks to victimise
a lady friend of the family. At this junc-
ture the death of a titled but not very scrupu-
lous aunt places a comfortable fortune in the
hands of Denise and Pascal, but both refuse
the windfall on account of its tarnished
source. Martigues pleads with Pascal to
take the money, so that Denise may be in-
duced to accept her share and thereby save
Martigues from some embarrassing moments
with his creditors. Pascal refuses point-
blank, but unbends later when Denise,
now thoroughly fed up with her husband,
pleads with him to take the money and pass
it over to Martigues, who in return for the
cash lias offered to give up his wife. The
bargain is struck, and the curtain rings
down with Denise preparing for a second
trip to the altar. Henri Segaert as Mar-
tigues, Louise Pirenne as Pascal and Madame
Georges Brenac as Denise played the prin-
cipal roles.
V- * *
Most of the Sydney amateur theatrical
societies are winding up their 1930 season,
which despite - bad times has been a very
active one. Early in the New Year Doris
Fitton, who directs the newly-formed but
already popular Independent Theatre, will
shift her headquarters from St. James’s Hall
to the Savoy Theatre, which she has leased
for Saturday-evening productions. Her com-
pany for the present is at the old address
presenting Noel Coward’s “The Queen was
in the Parlor.” Duncan Macdougall’s Play-
boxers will endeavor to cram in between now
and Christmas Booth Tarkington’s “Seven-
teen,” Schnitzler’s “Viennese Nights” and
Maxwell Anderson’s “Saturday’s Children.”
Carrie Tennant’s Community Playhouse in
Darlinghurst will place on the boards to-
morrow night Ibsen’s “Ghosts,” and during
December will essay the task of staging over
40 one-act Australian plays—entries in its
annual competition. Also listed for early
production are a crop of plays the proceeds
of which will be devoted to charity. The
more important fixtures are the Vagabonds’
production next Saturday evening at St.
James’s Hall of St. John Ervinc’s “Anthony
and Anna,” and “The Romantic Age,”byA. A.
Milne, which will be presented by a group
of players organised by the Gordon lady at
the Savoy on Friday week; at the same
theatre early in December a cast headed by
Naomi Waters and Sheila Ross will per-
form R. C. Tobin’s “Dear Doctor.” At the
Playbox on the first of next month
the Thespians will put on a four-act comedy,
“The Mender.” The suburban musical
societies are having a busy time. “The
Arcadians’’ is to be presented by the Peter-
sham Musical Society next Saturday even-
ing, and “A Runaway Girl” by the old-
established Mosman body the following Tues-
day—each show at the local town hall.
V * V
At Sydney St. James Clem Dawe is the
star in a new revue, “The Sketch Book,” an
impromptu sort of affair in which the com-
edian is as indefatigably funny as he was
in “Rain or Shine.” His antics with a long
loaf leave his audiences breathless with mer-
riment. Ward and Sherman help to keep
the fun going, and Rich and Ralston do some
neat dancing. The Sunkist Ballet, the
Rhythm Boys, Colin Crane and Winnie
Egerton still figure in the programme.
* * *
That the popularity of “Sons o’ Guns” is
not on the wane is revealed in the conges-
tion around Sydney’s Her Majesty’s vesti-
bule towards eight pip emma each evening.
Gus Bluett as Jimmy Canfield and Bertha
Riccardo as Yvonne provide most of the
fun. “This Thing Called Love,” the comedy
of a hired wife, at the Criterion, will cease
its run on Friday evening, and will be re-
placed on the following night by Neil Grant’s
“Possessions.” The new play is the story
of a self-made man who wants to marry
his daughter to an earl. The daughter is
dead nuts on a civil engineer. “Possessions”
will be played by the present Criterion co.
plus a few newcomers, including Ethel Mor-
rison and Eva Moss.
“ ’Op o’ My Thumb,”
a one-act sketch, will
be the curtain-raiser,
in which Agnes
Doyle will speak
most of the lines.
V * V
Nat Phillips at-
tracted a large
crowd to Sydney
Grand Opera House
on Saturday even-
ing, when his Snap-
shots Revue com-
pany presented “The
L a u g li Parade.”
Phillips is seldom off
the stage, his roles
ranging from a
seedy coachman to a
member of the peer-
age. Stud Foley, a
comedian from
Bananaland, assists
him. Angela Par-
son trills sentimen-
tal ballads sweetly,
and Ces Scott scores
with a song in praise
of the ladies. The
shapshotettes—a not
too plump and not
too thin ballet —and
a few unattached
beauties caper on
and off continually.
The ’Varsity Boys
make the noises
appropriate to a jazz
band.
* * #
Cecily Adkins, a
soprano with a
elear-timbred voice
and a pleasant man-
ner, chose some very
hard vocal nuts
when she sang to a
Sydney audience at
the Con. Hall last
week. In a group of songs by German com-
posers, Brahms, Schubert and Hugo Wolf
were represented. Franck and Massenet, of
France, and Borodin, of Russia, were also
drawn upon, and some of the profounder Eng-
lish lyricists also had a look in. The lady
carols very intelligently and has a gift for
achieving atmosphere.
# * *
Raymond Beatty, the basso, pupil of
Roland Foster, is so well known to Sydney
music-lovers that it lias been said that no
concert in the Bridge City is complete with-
out him. He has decided to take his resonant
voice to London, and at the Town Hall on
Saturday night a large audience assembled
to give him a send-off. He was heard in
an excerpt from Verdi’s almost-forgotten
opera “Simone Boccanegra”; in the florid
aria, “More Sweet Is the Name,” from Han-
del’s “Semele,” and, with Vern Barnett at
the organ, Molyneux Phillips as Ahab, and
a big choir, he gave some of the most effec-
tive parts of the oratorio “Elijah,” taking
the part of the prophet. Mr. Beatty has a
pleasant, well-rounded voice, a nice platform
manner and plenty of confidence. In a world
in which good bassos are as rare as purple
cows he should be welcome wherever he goes.
* * *
“The Go-Between,” by Frank Moran, occu-
pied the Australian Comedy Co. last week at
Melbourne Bijou. It concerns Whitney
Nelson, an unhappily married man, who
engages Jim Burridge as a butler. The
butler turns out to have been his superior
officer and special cobber in the late war,
and much of the light, bright comedy
emerges from the duplicated personality
assumed by Burridge in order to retain his
job. If the A.C.C. had begun its season
with “The Go-Between” instead of conclud-
ing with it, this paper would have felt more
friendly towards it. The co-operative con-
cern is steadily improving. It handled its
slender material with a great deal of artistry.
Colin V. Binks was Pedro de Carbillo, a
Spaniard, who by the blessings of Providence
spoke perfect Eng-
lish ; Brett Randall
appeared as a draw-
ing-room lounger
with his usual non-
chalance thick upon
him; Elma Gibbs, as
the heroine, was as
fresh as a daisy and
even fresher; Nina
Dacre did admir-
ably as Mrs. Nelson;
Rutland Beckett
was happily sub-
dued as her husband
and Guy Hastings
made a quiet demon-
stration of sincerity
as the butler. There
was also a Japanese
valet who looked and
talked very much
like D’Arcy Kel-
way.
* * *
The Arts and
Crafts Society did
not add many cubits
to its height by the
display it gave in
aid of its funds at
the King’s Theatre,
Melbourne, last
week. Posing a
number of leading
lights of the social
world in imitation
of famous paintings
might have been im-
mensely gratifying
to the performers
and their friends,
but it was hardly
worthy of a society
which puts “Arts” in
its title. The Hon.
Elizabeth Somers
Cocks, daughter of
the Acting Governor-
General, led off with .
a representation of Millais’s My First
Sermon,” and as a tableau she looked
charming. “The Sackville Children” (llopp-
ner), by the Misses Moira Creswick and
Rosita Spowers and Archie Creswick, was
also prettily artificial; but Sargent never
got as near to reality as did Margaret Syme
in “Spanish Dancer.” Marjorie Clarke’s
“Madonna with Apples” did not look in the
least bit like a woman by Rossetti, but no
woman ever looked like a woman by Ros-
setti. The artificial lighting gave an air
of the waxworks to Miss McDonald s
“Madame Recamier” (David) and to Mrs.
Alec Russell’s “Madame la Pompadour”
(Boucher), but this did not matter so much.
It was when the society started caricaturing
the really great masters that people who
knew the originals started to wriggle. Eight
minutes’ interval was provided to enable
Jean Lawrence to equip her visage with the
enigmatical smile of Da Vinci’s “Mona Lisa. ”
When the curtain went up the effect was
staggering. It would be as well to draw
a veil over it, except to remark that Miss
Lawrence was obliging enough to complete
Leonardo’s picture by adding a body to the
bust. Margaret Syme, very gorgeously
arrayed appeared as Velasquez’s “Infanta
Margharita.” The direction was in the
hands of artist Dora Wilson. Preceding the
above-mentioned very moving pictures was
a ballet, “Lend, the Toymaker,” by that
tried' theatrician, Jennie Brenan. It was
altogether delightful. The mites danced so
beautifully that it would be invidious to
single anyone out for special mention.
* ¥
Melbourne Tivoli’s current bill is up to
the standard of the last. A stout lady
from Honolulu sings to a thin corpse-like
beau underneath the shadow of a smoking
volcano, and the thin corpse retaliates by
fetching out a chair, setting it down under
the flaming mountain and playing at his
companion on a steel-wire guitar. The only
trouble is that the audience has to share
the lady’s punishment without having done
anything to deserve it. Senia Chostiakoff, a
Russian with a nice Italian tenor, sings the
familiar classics in ingratiating style. Ada
Reeve makes polished comedy out of a
French adventuress in a sketch which has
more body than the usual Tivolian skit.
Four damsels come out on the Bridge of
Sighs and sing at a fat gent, in the front
row of the Stalls. The fat gent, shows
signs of perturbation, gets out his handker-
chief, mops his brow, and. finally over-
come, rams his hat on his head and bolts
out of the theatre en route to the stage-
door to draw his salary. On the whole, an
entertaining show.
* # *
Madame Alice Orff-Solscher, a German
Wagnerian prima donna, who dropped un-
expectedly on Melbourne out of a mailboat,
was the magnet that drew the multitude to
the Town Hall for Bernard Heinze’s final
celebrity concert on Saturday. Madame
challenged comparison with Florence Aus-
tral by singing some of her favorite num-
bers. She essayed Briinnhilde’s “Battle
Cry,” but never came near Austral’s stagger-
ing performance of that number. The Orff-
Solscher’s rendering was mainly gymnastic
and histrionic, whereas Austral’s was both
martial and musical. The lady from Berlin
nearly threw herself off the platform, while
Austral used to stand like the Rock of Gib-
raltar and let her amazing throat do all the
work. But sweeter singing than Senta s
lovely ballad from “The Flying Dutchman
has seldom been heard in Melbourne or
vocalism more brilliantly blended with dra-
matic sense. The programme was all Wag-
nerian, and displayed the Uni. Orchestra at
the top of its form, while the chorus singing
of the Philharmonic gentlemen and ladies
in the third act of “Tannhauser” was a
delight to listen to. As Wolfram in th -
“Tannhauser” excerpt E. Wilson started un-
certainly, but he ended by rendering “O Star
of Eve” with excellent effect.
# # *
A generally characterless revival of “The
Cingalee” at Melbourne Royal on Saturday
was surveyed by a packed house which was
in the mood to laugh at everything but the
comedian’s jokes. Josie Melville, Alban
Whitehead, Edwin Brett, Gwyneth Lascelles,
Phil Smith and Lilian Crisp were amongst
the principals, but it was the four tea girls,
MARY GIBBONS, who is Lola in Sydney Playbox Theatre’s
production of Booth Tarkington’s “Seventeen.”
Jean Gibson, Nancy Horne, Audrey Eskell
and Lois Green, who made the show worth
while.
¥ * #
“The Road to Romance” was closed to
traffic at Melbourne (Comedy on Saturday,
but the advertised revival of “Peg o’ My
Heart” has been postponed until the 22nd.
The Gregan McMahons open with “Pyg-
malion” at the Bijou to-morrow night, with
Pirandello’s “Right You Are, etc.,” to follow.
These will be the last of the company’s pro-
ductions to see the footlights in the Bourke-
stree.t house. J.C.W. have made the King’s
or the Comedy available for future shows.
* * *
While Nellie Bramley’s co. was playing
“Smiling Through” at Brisbane Royal por-
tion of her front-of-the-house staff went on
strike. For one night the show was off, but
volunteers came to the rescue and the co.
now hopes to pull through. Next production
will be “The Yantine Affair.”
“Stephen Sink”: Dion Boucicault left a
sinister memento of his last Australian tour
in the visitors’ book of a country pub. He
wrote: “My dear Mrs. Briggs,—Your curry
is beyond words; your rice is unforgettable ;
the ensemble is indescribable.”
“D.”: About the most nauseating of all
Hollywood’s emanations is its lying “bally-
hoo.” Consider this, which is designed to
boost “Women Everywhere” :
Despite his civilian r6le, Grossmith has an envi-
able record in real life as a sailor and a warrior.
Throughout the world war he served as an officer
in the Imperial Navy, rising to the rank of Lieuten-
ant-Commander and gaining decorations for bravery
in action.
“Young George’s” service was exclusively on
the London front. He appeared there in
“The Bing Boys Are Here” (1914-16), “The
Other Bing Boys” (1916-17) and “The Bing
Boys on Broadway” (1917-18). He used
to get about the West End in some kind
of naval uniform during the day-time (I
saw him during several of my London
leaves), but he never let service interfere
with business.
“C. Ma” : The Australian film censorship
is ludicrous enough, but it is sanity itself
compared to what goes on in Shanghai. That
cosmopolitan mart is an international settle-
ment ruled by a municipal council whose
proper status has never been defined. Each
nationality is represented by a consul who
is usually exquisitely. sensitive to anything
that affects the prestige of his particular
state. The result is that pressure may be
brought to bear on an exhibitor from half
a dozen directions at once. A local paper
recently- criticised a film from a private
screening before the shears had been let
loose. When it was shown publicly several
people wrote pointing out that the critic
had commented on numerous scenes which
apparently did not exist. It turned out that
the American consul had objected to one
incident as reflecting on the doughboy, the
French consul had protested against another
as putting the poilu in a wrong light, and
the German consul had found matter which
reflected on the reputation of the Father-
land's womanhood.


Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner, a
la carte, from 1/6. Inclusive tariff from 13/6 per
day; £4/4/- weekly. Special quotations for sport-
ing bodies, etc. Situated right opposite Spencer
Street Station, no taxi fares; railway porter carries
baggage across if necessary. Please write for detailed
tariff card. Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is sufficient
tddreu.
1
iIUD
[PREPARED,]
mM
D
tJ&SWZfs
Guaranteed by the manufacturers to
go further, last longer and uniformly
give better results than any other
paint made.—“B.P.”
"KEEPS ON KEEPING ONl”
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
CLOTHES FOR
MEN
t
AND THEIR
SONS.
BEAKERS
(In Leather Case)
Ideal for picnlcers. A set of four
half-pint drinking vessels, made of a
synthetic material (resembling xylonite),
which is non-fragile and tasteless. Many
beautiful cloud effects on coloured
grounds.
Complete in Leather Case .. ~l A /{*
Pike Brothers
LIMITED,
In Queen-street, BRISBANE.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
Sept.,’2o. .171,642 84 p.c.=138,125 33,517 551,888
Mar., ’21.. 155,297 9.37 „ 121,875 33,422 585,310
Sept.,’2l. .206,201 9.37 „ 121,875 34,326 669,636
Mar., *22. .245,990 12* „„ 162,500 83,490 753,126
Sept., ’22. .247,195 124 „ „ 162,500 84,695 837,821
Mar., ’23. .251,395 124 „ ~ 162,500 88,895 926,716-
Mar., ’24(.673,639 10 „ ~ 446,875 226,764 1,153,480
Sept.,’24. .324,978 10 „ „ 243,750 81,228 1,234,708
Mar., ’25. .435,676 121 „ „ 304,688 130,987 1,365,695
Sept., ’25. .404,628 124 „ ~ 304,688 99,940 1,465,635
Mar., ’26. .396,104 „ „ 304,687 91,417 1,557,053
Sept., ’26. .408,444 124 „ „ 304,688 103,756 1,660,809
Mar., ’27. .424,353 124 „ „ 304,687 119,666 1,780,475
Reserves capitalised, £975,000 .. 805,475
Sept., ’27 *. 476,516 124 p.c.-365,625 110,891 916,366
Mar., ’2B. .490,112 124 „ „ 365,625 124,487 1,040,853
Sept., ’2B. .469,157 12£ „ „ 365,625 103,532 1,144,385
Mar., ’29. .507,149 124 „ „ 365,625 141,524 1,285,909
Sept., ’29. .465,492 124 „ „ 365,625 99,867 1,385,776
Mar., ’3O. .445,337 124 „ „ 365,625 79,712 1,465,488
Kept,’3o. .350,727 124 „,, 365,625 1,450,590
•Exclusive of Replacement and Depreciation Fund.
(Period covered 12 months. Fiji and Maoriland
cos. in process of liquidation. No Sept, balance-sheet
issued.
The eo.’s earnings are derived from refining
and milling in Australia, growing and mill-
ing in Fiji, and there is a refinery in Maori-
land also. It. gets £1 13s. 7d. per ton under
contract from the Queensland Government
for refining (£1), financing (6s. 7d.) and
selling (75.) a lion’s share of the Australian
crop. So it is the returns from milling and
growing, which are affected by variations
for the price of sugar in the world’s markets
and seasonal conditions, that have been the
chief cause of fluctuations in the co.’s profits.
The drop of £94,610 in the figure for the
.six months to Sept. 30 was due to the heavy
fall in world prices, refractory juices and
the hurricane at Fiji. No profit was claimed
on account of the co.’s extensive interests
there; the £350,727 shown for Australian
operations, and, including the Maoriland
refinery, was at the rate of 11.4 p.c. p.a.
on the £5,850,000 of paid capital. That was
after £60,000 had been charged against earn-
ings on account of the hurricane, and
£50,312 net dropped into the depreciation
fund, raising it to £2,240,196. So, taking
these figures into account, the usual p.c.
distribution was more than earned.
As usual, finances are very snug. The
position disclosed by the published accounts
at Sept. 30 was as follows: —
Refineries —Australia and Maoriland ..£2,980,184
Sugar mills and plant, etc. —
Commonwealth . . . . .. 2,484,101
Fiji (less £1,625,000 reserve) .. 1,271,778
Ocean steamers .. .. .. .. 100,000
Distillery . . . . . . . . .. 120,169
Office premises . . . . . . .. 56,011
Stocks and some book debts . . .. 2,830,649
Other book debts, investments, etc. .. 2,039,932
Cash, deposits, etc. .. .. .. 1,673,696
£13,556,520
Liabilities—
Sundry creditors ..£586,027
Suspense accounts .. 3,017,130
Interim div., 1929 .. 365,625
3,968,782
Net assets . . .. .. .. .. £9,587,738
During the half-year the book value of the
Fiji assets was reduced £120,134, and
£170,445 more was spent on the refineries and
Australian mills, etc., than was written off.
The new works on the river bank at Perth
are now contributing to the pool. For many
years all additions to fixed assets have been
paid for out of profits, and then from the
same source the chief earners have been
severely written down.
A feature which catches the eye is the
fine store of liquids:—
Sept., ’26. Sept.,’29. Sept.,’3o,
Liquid assets .. £5,232,917 £6,512,736 £6,544,277
Liabilities .. 3,233,373 3,638,125 3,603,157
Liquid surplus . . £1,999,544 £2,874,611 £2,941,120
Liabilities at Sept. 30 include £3,017,130 in
suspense accounts; much of this is provision
for contingencies, and probably true profit.
Even so shareholders are visibly £941,578
better off than they were four years earlier,
apart from any variations in the value of
fixed assets.
It seems highly improbable that the em-
bargo on black-grown sugar will be lifted, buf
since public effort is directed to lowering
the cost of living it is doubtful whether the
present price of sugar for home consumption
will be maintained. Nevertheless the C.S.R.
may not. be seriously affected; it has been
shown, the chairman says, that the co. s
refining, etc., charges, which amount to
slightly more than gd. per lb., will not bear
reduction. Much will depend of course on
the outcome of the present inquiry into the
industry. There is nothing in sight to sug-
gest an early recovery in world prices.
The scrip, fully paid to £2O, has. long
been a prominent front-ranker amongst indus-
trial stocks. The price has fluctuated between
£4O and £3O during the last six months; at
the current figure of £35 15s. the return is
7 p.c. on a 121 p.c. div. basis.
Marcus Clark and Co., Ltd.
, Dividends —— N
Ist 2nd
Prefs. Prefs. Ord. Written Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. 71 p.c. 10 p.c. Off. serves.
Aug., ££££££
1919.. 54,193 9,000 3,281 20,000 4,771 52,307
£60,000 (in shares) received for
goodwill of Bon Marche business.. 112,307
Less £3026- Bon Marche dotation
exes. .. . . .. .. .. 109,281
81 p.c. 74 p.c. 124 p.c.
1920.. 78,174 12,750 6,562 25,000 4,861 138,282
6 p.c. 10 p.c.
1921.. 58,820 9,000 11,431 20,000 15,071 141,600
1922.. 50,060 9,000 13,125 20,000 5,131 144,404
1923.. 55,879 9,000 13.125 20,000 5,485 152,673
1924.. 69,976 10,723 13,125 22.861 4,982 170,958
1925.. 70,496 12,000 13,125 25,000 4,980 186,349
1920.. 67,826 12,000 13,125 25,000 5,126 198,924
1927.. 77,998 15,647 13,125 32,195 5,668 210,287
1928.. 78,002 17,507 13,125 34,532 5,732 217,393
1929.. 76,468 18,000 18,507 38,312 8,135 210,907
Profit on sale of freeholds, £8024 .. 218,931
3 p.c.
1930.. 37,427 18,000 21,508 12,223 10,278 194,349
A sharp contraction in turnover, which con-
sisted largely of furniture, furnishing-drapery
and musical instruments, the steady fall in
prices, heavy overhead and failure of the
chief subsidiary to contribute to the pool
were mainly responsible for the collapse of
last year’s figures. Gross profits from trad-
ing (£69,838) slipped £41,881, and there was
a drop of £12,770 in dividends and rents
(£18,789). Cuts in the pay-sheet and other
savings lightened management, etc., charges
(£51,200) by £15,592, but, after setting aside
£10,278 for depreciation, shown as written
off in the table, the final figure (£27,149)
was £12,359 short of the combined require-
ments of both lots of prefs. That is dis-
regarding a profit of £SO24 on the sale of
freeholds. The ords. got an interim 3 p.c.
in May last, though apparently it was not
earned; they had a. steady 10 p.c., with a
bit extra in 1920, for the 13 years to the
close of accounts in 1929. Allowing for the
pref. requirements 8.3 p.c. was netted on
average ord. capital for the 12 months to
that date compared with 12, 13.5, 15, 16.1
and 17.9 p.c. back to 1924, but the conditions
under which those results were won no longer
prevail.
A couple of years ago the co. moved into
the fine new headquarters it had built itself
on the opposite side of Central-Square, and
which has more space than is needed at the
moment; the old building remains on the
board’s hands, adding to overhead but not
to revenue. The co. also owns most of the
320,000 £1 ord. shares in Marcus Clark
(Vic.), Ltd., which transformed itself from
a motor-agency into a holding co. about four
years ago, when it took over Craig William-
son’s drapery and mail-order business in
Melbourne. Later it bought control in
Miller Anderson, Ltd., an old-established
Adelaide drapery concern. But results have
been disappointing; an 8. p.c. div. in 1927
was followed by 4 p.c. in the next year,
since when the ords. have gone hungry. No
final div. was paid on the holding co.’s £190,000
of 8 p.c. cum. prefs. for the 12 months to
August 31 last. The ords. are priced around
2s. on the market, but are taken into the
parent’s books at face value; too much notice
therefore need not be taken of the reserves
shown in the table.
Over the last four years £361,596 has been
added to the book value of premises and
plant, and £152,806 to shares in other cos.
The board got in £410,077 of fresh share
capital, and went outside for an extra
£173,292. This, the brisk growth of the
business and the financial position are seen
in the next comparison of balance-sheet
figures:—
1920. 1924. 1929. 1930.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital .. 437,500 625,000 973,899 1,035,077
Mortgages . . . . 70,000 51,500 300,000 287,500
Other debts . . 213,710 210,553 340,122 304,195
Stock . . . . 228,475 228,385 247,214 246,584
Book debts . . 304,735 445,621 579,119 565,325
Freeholds .. 123,189 170,069 579,800 560,889
Leaseholds . . 68,738 57,377 58,232 59,970
• Plant, etc. .. 22,860 19,948 96,096 91,418
Shares in other cos. 120,493 149,310 291,898 310,519
Cash, etc. .. 19,533 11,994 11,821 6,447
At Aug. 2 the more or less liquid surplus
(£226,661, including stocks but not shares)
was £28,629 stronger than at the previous
balance. The substantial book debts reflect
the co.’s extensive t.-p. connections; much
depends upon the soundness of the balances
and upon the figure at which stocks have
been taken into the sheet. Incidentally,
there is a contingent liability of £45,000 for
uncalled capital in shares in other cos.
The Sydney co. has issued 300,000 first and
297,848 second prefs. and 439,580 ords. The
prefs. rank in the order stated, have priority
as to capital, and carry a cumulative 6 p.c.
and 7i p.c. respectively. The* firsts are
priced at 12s. 6d. and the seconds at 145.,
returning 9.5 p.c. and 10.6 p.c. respectively.
For the ords., which fetched 275. a year ago,
ss. 3d. is now offered. On paper the net asset
backing is £4 Ss. 9d. firsts, £3 2s. 7d. seconds
and 28s. lOd. ords.
Robert Reid and Co., Ltd.
f Dividends \
, —Prefs.—,
Profits. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. Ordinary. Reserves.
July, £ £ £ £ £
1920. .309,562 13,672 10 p.e.= 47,889 ( „ 0 o 312
Reserves capitalised, £161,669 $
Inner reserves disclosed, £72,709.. 376,022
1 185,799 14,000 8,496 74 p.c.=45,678 393,647
1921 -{ Provision for depreciation of stock,
£300.000 93,647
1922.. 35,457 14,000 20,204 5 p.c.=r30,45» 64,448
Inner reserves disclosed, £30,452.. 94,900
1923. .141,458 14,000 20,000 10 p.c.=60,903 141,455
1924.. 99,676 14,000 20,000 10 „ „ 60,903 146,22 S
1925.. 76,730 14,000 20,000 7 „ „ 36,542 152,416
Inner reserves disclosed, £15,226 .. 167,642
1926.. 41,780 14,000 20,000 5 p.c. =30,452 144,970
1927.. 66,453 14,000 20,000 5 „ „ 30,452 146,971
1928.. 64,240 14,000 20,000 5 „ „ 30,452 146,759
1929.. 44,673 14,000 20,000 5 „ „ 30,452 126,980
June,
1930*. 30,577 13,272(18,972f Nil 125,313
*ll months, 12 days. (Approximate.
There is £1,059,035 of share capital to feed,
including 200,000 7 p.c. first and 250,000 8
p.c. seconds; also there is £150,000 of 0 p.c.
first-mortgage debenture stock. The pref.
and debenture money was got in 11 years
ago at tlu‘ peak of the post-war boom,
when headquarters was transferred from
London to Melbourne. In the slump
which quickly followed £300,000 of re-
serves was used to write down the
book value of stocks. The outlook for
the softgoods wholesaler has since steadily
changed. Developments in retailing methods,
the growth of the Australian textile factory
and the specialty house and the chain store
have all cut into his field, while casualties in
the rag trade have flooded the market with
stocks, and the net earnings of the survivors
have suffered.
Owing to difficult conditions in S. Aus.
the co. closed its Adelaide warehouse nearly
two years ago, and liquidated the stocks.
Last year it shared in the general experi-
ence ; the slip in net earnings was £14,096,
making the drop £33,663 over the last two
years. The final figure was £1667 short of
the combined requirements of both lots of
prefs., so for the first time the ords. went
hungry. They got 5 p.c. in each of the four
preceding years, though, according to tin?
figures, it was not earned. Tariff increases,
import prohibitions and the acute position in
the exchange market now make it plain that
the Australian wholesaler’s future lies mainly
in supporting and working in with Aus-
tralian industries. The co. has now reached a
stage where the whole of its present capital
cannot be employed in the business with
satisfactory results; the question of return-
ing part of it will be decided when the posi-
tion clears sufficiently to enable the board
to determine future requirements.
The co.’s position, as balance-sheet figures
show it, is as follows: —
1927. 1929. 1930.
Old. capital .. .. £609,035 £609,035 £609,035
Pref. capital . . . . 450,000 450,000 450,000
Debentures and interest 150,469 150,469 150,000
Mortgages . . . . 83,652 82,387 77,286
Overdrafts, etc... •• 410,189 203,454 156,973
Creditors .. .. 320,787 219,080 138,928
Properties .. .. 235,233 236,104 232,761
Plant, etc. .. ... 78,654 76,823 74,097
Stocks 1,212,452 913,054 787,447
Book debts . . . . 666,221 649,552 615,474
Investments, cash, etc... 93,424 100,714 102,445
There is nothing uneasy about the finances.
Taking debentures into the reckoning—they
mature in 1938 and are redeemable mean-
while at £lO5 on six months’ notice —the
more or less liquid surplus (£982,179, includ-
ing stocks) was £25,751 lighter than at the
close of accounts in 1929. The reduction of
£125,607 in the book value of stocks, now
lower than at any time in the last decade,
suggests that the management is alive to
possibilities.
The prefs., which fetched around par on
the market a year ago, are now priced
at 13s. 3d. firsts and 10s. 6d. seconds. At
these figures they return 10.5 p.c. and 15.3
p.c. respectively. The backing is £5 18s. sd.
for the firsts and £3 18s. 9d. for the seconds.
The ords. are all held privately.
Australian Benefit Life
June, Income. Claims. Exes. Surplus. ; Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1926.. 7,685 400 10,282 - 21,850
Added preliminary exes., £276 .. 22,126
1927.. 8,354 665 6,936 753 21,373
Added preliminary exes., £45 .. 21,418
1928.. 9,068 463 8,557 48 21,370
1929.. 9,980 554 8,368 1058 20,312
1930.. 10,149 2120 7,992 37 20,275
This is another post-war stripling that has
done no good for itself. It was promoted in
Sydney by W. J. McMahon in 1920; he took
5000 iOs. paids and a job as managing direc-
tor. Policy-writing began in February, 1921,
and by June 30, 1922, 58,312 10s. shares
had been issued and paid to £15.572, of whicu
£11.592 was gobbled by establishment, etc.,
charges.
There were changes in the control in 1925,
but business has remained shy and, of course,
exceedingly expensive. Net premium income
has grown, with hesitation, from £3676 in 1925
to £8947 last year, when the improvement
was £7B. For the 12 months to June 30 exes,
made off with 89.3 p.c. of the net premiums
compared with 94.3, 105 and 91.6 p.c. tor
the three preceding terms. On the generally-
accepted basis that new business is 10 times
more expensive than old, last year’s first
premiums were gathered at a cost of 245 p.c.
These high costs, which are due partly to
the small volume of business, have made
the premiums received inadequate to pro-
vide the necessary sinking fund or reserve
required to meet policy liabilities, and
furnish a surplus for division amongst
policy-holders and shareholders. The pre-
sent volume of business is not sufficient to
support a paid capital of £44,086, which was
the figure at June 30 —there are 6007 fully-
paids, 90,890 called to 7s. Od. and 29.500
called to 5s. —all 10s. shares.
The protection for policy-holders was in
this form: —
1922. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Equipment . . £826 £1,024 £709 £1,261
Govt securities. . 940 12,000 12,000 17,000
Loans . . . . 1,600 1,600 3,360
Book debts . . 291 1,734 1,938 2,642
Cash . . . . 4,732 7,242 8,423 1,878
Tangibles . • £6,789 £23,600 £24,670 £26,031
Sundry creditors . . 2,758 827 920 2,221
Net tangibles .. £4,031 £22,773 £23,750 £23,810
At June 30 the assurance fund figured at
£1.0,562. So, assuming that this was suffi-
cient to cover the liabilities under policies,
policy-holders could see a wide margin of
tangible cover in satisfactory assets. Also
shareholders could sec 6s. of every £1 they
had put up still intact.
The cover for policy-holders, however, lias
been provided mainly out of the share capi-
tal. The position now is that unless the
business can be made to show a profit, the
remaining capital will, be gradually con-
sumed. The outlook is not encouraging:
competition is excessive, and, so long as it
remains so, costs will be higher than they
ought to be, especially amongst the younger
set. The most satisfactory solution of their
difficulties lies in the absorption or amalga-
mation of a dozen or so of these striplings.
J. Fielding and Co., Ltd.
r — Dividends To
Net Pref. Re- Ite-
Sept., Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1920.. 22.069 933 15 p.c. =76,000 13,626 10,102
Reserves disclosed (approx. £19,300).
Assets -written up ; two ordinaries issued
for one; goodwill (£5000) disappears.
1921.. 17,761 1400 8f p.'c. =9,625 6,736 6,736
1922.. 53.112 1400 ll| „„ 12,375 39,337 46,073
Pref. capital ( £20,000) returned.
Ordinaries.
1923.. 28.627 111 p.e.=13,333 15,294 61,367
1924.. 29.735 lli „ ~13,500 16,235 77,602
1925.. 18.225 lli ~,,13,500 4,725 82,327
1926.-23,495 lli ~,,13,547 9,948 92,275
Reserves capitalised, £24,500 . . 67,775
1927.. 36.354 124 p.c.=18,375 17,979 85,754
1928.. 40,408 15 ~,, 22,425 17,983103,737
1929.. 41.050 15 ~,, 22,425 18,625 122,362
Written off investments, etc., £14,000.. 108,362
1930.. 23.024 15 p.c.=22,425 599 108,961
This successful Sydney manufacturing con
cern turns out cardboard boxes, cartons and
corrugated-fibre containers. The generally
lessened trade activity has, of course, affected
the demand for its products, and cuts have
been made in the price. This and larger
provision for increased trading risks explain
the sharp drop of £18,026 in the year's ad-
mitted net earnings. That was after £14,000
had been taken from reserves and openly
struck off the book value of investments. The
final figure was thus a satisfactory 15.4 p.c.
on paid capital as against 27.4, 27 and 24.8
p.c. back to 1927. Still, compared with the
previous balance, book debts, cash and invest-
ments, mainly the latter ( they are all lumped
in one entry in the sheet) were actually
£2105 greater, and the more or less liquid
surplus (£194,022, including stocks) was
only £3135 lighter. So the Is. bonus was
again sent out with the final div., making-
-15 p.c. for the year, and that with more
comfort than the bare p. and 1. balance sug-
gested.
Nevertheless the outlook is for a period of
difficult trading, and the 15 p.c. distribution
is by no means secure, notwithstanding
that "the co. is well equipped to weather
a rough passage. There is £105.961 of vis-
ible reserves to assist and support £149,500
of share capital. These reserves are largely
invested outside the business in what the
chairman says are generally sound securities.
Finances are snug, plant is thoroughly effi-
cient and up to date and the premises are
conservatively valued in the books. Here is
the position, with comparisons illustrating
(Continued on next page.)


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 18/2.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. ltyan, Esq.:
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE ..... BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Baniv offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
IDEAS FOR YOUR WILL
THE MAIN POINTS ARE—
1. —To appoint a permanent and reliable Executor.
2. —To provide for your wife and family-
(a) Income to your wife; (b) Capital to your children.
3. —To give general instructions to your Executor.
Write or call for our Booklet “The Making of a Will.”
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED,
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Watch Your
Step J
•
These are days when a man
may lose the savings of a life-
time.
These are days when a man
may lay the foundations of a
fortune.
The thing is to know. ‘‘The
‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” has im-
mense data at its disposal and
a staff of specially trained in-
vestigators and accountants.
It will help you to save losses
and make gains.
NOVEMBER NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-;
PElt ANNUM, 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cl'. York and Barrack Streets,' Sydney,
Obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Ad'vt.
* * *
Each year sees a growing total of important con-
tracts that specify Pioneer W'ood Pipe for water-
supply schemes. Experience has proved the absolute
reliability of this excellent, durable conduit —its
ability to give long, trouble-free economical .service.
A considerable saving in first cost is another factor
that has helped to put Pioneer Wood Pipe in the
forefront of popularity with experienced engineers.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road
(near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at
Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
* * * *
Bismuth. —We are buyers of Bismuth Concentrates
in any quantity. Write, giving particulars of
quantity available, and send samples to Elliott
Brothers, Limited, Box 494 AA, G.P.0., Sydney.
—Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
Britain's best pump gives
double pressure with
half the effort
Recognised to be the “Master”
Foot-pump by all motorists. Two
pumps in one, with a patent super-charged action, a
push-on connector that fits all valves, and an accurate
direct-action pressure gauge. These are the unique fea-
tures which make the British KISMET-DUPLEX the
best tyre-pump in the world.
PRICE, WITH
GAUGE, 84/-
ţ
KISMET
DUPLEX “MASTER”
FOOT PUMP
Two
ť
in One
Patentees ana Sole Manulacturers:
WM. TURNER & BRO., LTD., SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
Factory Representative:
MR. JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE.
the growth of the business, as balance-sheet
figures disclose- it:—
1919. 1926. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital. . £40,000 £122,500 £149,500 £149,500
Liabilities . . 51,982 7,529 17,569 17,531
Premises . . 31,824 51,967 45,417 42,046
Plant, etc. . . 21,230 56,636 40,501 33,606
Stocks.. .. 42,416 25,115 31,712 26,434
Book debts, cash
and investments 19,778 96,133 183,014 185,119
It eau be taken- for granted that the co.
will get its full share of whatever business
is offering. Results will depend partly upon
the extent to which overhead can be
restrained, and partly upon the returns ob-
tained from investments. The wholesale
shrinkage in dividends is certain to affect
these returns, which have included some-
thing from Corrugated Fibre Containers Pty.,
Ltd., a subsidiary which has been operating
in Melbourne since 1923.
Much of the co.’s success has been due to
the imagination and quick enterprise of
James Fielding, its managing director. When
the war restricted the use of metal con-
tainers, Fieldings, which had spent a lot of
money on experiment and research, stepped
into the breach, and has since greatly widened
and strengthened its connections. About two-
thirds of the capital represents bonus scrip.
On the market the pound shares fetch
325. 6d. as against 60s. shortly before the
close of accounts in 1929, when another bonus
issue was considered imminent. At the
current figure the return is 9.2 n.c. on a 15 p.c.
div. basis, or 6.1 p.c. if the distribution
drops to 10 p.c.
Civil Service Stores (Sydney).
Though on paper the co. then had a sur :
plus of assets over liabilities of £280,000, the
second mortgagee (the Commonwealth Bank)
precipitated a crisis on Thursday by appoint-
ing receivers to take formal possession of
the business. It is intended to call share-
holders together shortly and put the co. into
liquidation.
It has been a very sudden and complete
collapse of an old and once prosperous busi-
ness. For over 27 years the society occu-
pied a leasehold at a low rental in one of
tne busiest parts of the city, where
a considerable goodwill attached to the
position. It had practically nothing, ex-
cept a few improvements, in bricks and
mortar, and its trade being chiefly on a
cash basis it got through on a handful of
capital. Thus blessed the mistakes of the
management were hidden. When the lease
of the Pitt-street premises ran out, .the co.
bought a freehold (part of Lassetter’s old
premises in Gcorge-street) and put up an
imposing new building. To do this it went
heavily into debt, and no less than 83.3 of
its tangible assets was represented by prem-
ises and plant when the books last closed.
Under the altered conditions the position
called for very careful handling by men
highly skilled in modern trading conditions.
Unfortunately for “The Stores” its board
was composed of men who. for the most part,
had little practical experience in merchan-
dising.
At July 31 last the first and second mort-
gages (£182,400 and £85,843 respectively)
and other debts (£31,256) overshadowed the
whole position. Efforts were made to raise
£30,000 on deposit from shareholders, but
only £6500 was forthcoming; this is to be
returned intact. Operations since 1928, w-hen
the div. and bonus were cut out, have con-
tinued to show big losses, and the value of
the freeholds has been heavily depreciated by
causes outside the board's control. The
financial position became worse, and though
£23,000 was wiped off the overdraft since
last balance-day the bank, whose debt of
£62,000 is secured by a second mortgage on
the freehold and a floating debenture over
unencumbered assets, became nervous.
The receivers will carry on until a sale
can be effected. If shareholders are to get
any of their £292,389 of capital back,
it will be necessary for stocks, debtors
etc., to realise their book value, and free-
bold, plant, etc., to sell for more than
£200,000. Fixed assets were in at £492,881
at July 31 last. A little over a year ago
the co. decided to sell out as a going con-
cern, but no buyer could be found. The
premises were then offered, but no bid was
received.
Arthur Rickard & Co., Ltd., to Liquidate.
Arthur Rickard and Co., Ltd., is a Sydney
co. in the subdivision and house-purchase
business. It has a paid capital of £500,000,
and is chief of a group of three subsidiaries
controlled by Arthur Rickard and Co. Ex-
tended, Ltd., a holding concern formed in
1914. To finance operations during the boom
years it went heavily into debt, and, as
usually happens in- bad times, the lenders
now want their money back.
Moreover, with wages on the down grade
and unemployment on the increase many pur-
chasers have been unable to continue their
payments, and properties are falling into
the co.’s hands. Thus its cash position has
been affected, liquid resources are not suffici-
ent to meet commitments as they fall due,
and, being unable to raise fresh funds, the
board has decided to put the co. into volun-
tary liquidation. Purchasers who continue
to pay their instalments will not be affected;
titles will be available on completion of
payments. The book value of the assets,
which consist largely of buyers’ balances,
unsold land and shares in other real-estate
ventures, is said to exceed liabilities by
£600,000. Practically the whole of the
creditors are secured, and they are not likely
to suffer any loss, the board says. Neverthe-
less they may have to wait for their money;
it is, of course, impossible to say how long,
or what land and debtors’ balances will
ultimately realise. The trend of values is
definitely downwards; the Federal Govern-
ment’s new tax on property income and the
announcement by the State Government of
its intention to pass a moratorium Act have
steepened the decline, and sales promise to
be slow.
Of course reconstruction of the holding co.
is inevitable, and it, too, is to go into volun-
tary liquidation. Until details of the board’s
proposals are known it is impossible to say
exactly wha-t the position of shareholders will
be. The Extended co.’s paid capital is
£650,000 in 100,000 first and 200,000 second
8 p.c. cum. prefs.. 100,000 third 8-§ p.c. cum-
prefs. and 250,000 ords. The public is
directly interested only in the prefs. Arthur
Rickard and his family hold 80,000 prefs.
and 230,000 ords., or nearly half the paid
capital. He is also joined personally in the
covenants of mortgages ; thus his private posi-
tion is threatened.
At Dec. 31, 1929, the Extended co.’s own
funds and £23,141 of deposits were all in-
vested in the subsidiaries, in which it holds
the following share interests :
Amount held
Paid by A.R.
Capital. Extended.
Arthur Rickard and Co., Ltd... £500,000-£500,000
Ilaymarket Permanent Building
Co. 125,000* 99,988
Northern Suburbs lluilding C 0... 20,060 20,000
*lncludes £25,000 of pref. capital issued to the
public in 1928.
The Haymarket and Northern Suburbs cos.
are not affected, and will continue to trade
as formerly. Also half a dozen subsidiaries
of A. R. and Co., Ltd., with paid capitals
aggregating £135,130, are to continue as usual.
The situation according to the last pub-
lished figures of the operating cos. (Dec. 31,
1929) was as follows:
Arthur Hay- Northern
Rickard market Suburbs
Co. Co. Co. Total.
Mortgages, etc.. . £240,128 £39,801 £5,877 £285,806
Deposits.. .. 5,306 - 5,306
Other debts . . 77,252* 5,118 38 82,408
City property . . 90,000 21,828 111,828
Unsold land . . 146,806 49,821 6,439 203,066
Balances owing,
etc 303,477 62,173 14,011 379,661
Other book debts 74,552 5,580 3,636 83,768
Debentures . . 84,692 40,000 124,692
Shares in other cos. 162,374 1,075 7,960 171,409
Govt, securities
and cash . . 10,000 210 - 10,210
*lncludes £44,269 owing to parent co.
A. R. and Co., Ltd., has since sold its city
property for £30,000 more than its book
value. The Extended Co.’s share of the net
assets of the Haymarket and Northern Sub-
urbs cos. amounted to £135,471. It is plain;
therefore, that the position of the second
and third prefs. will depend mainly upon
how the liquidation of A. R. and Co. pans
out. Prospects for the ords. getting any-
thing are not encouraging.
‘‘Old Warden”: Ararat (Vic.), once a
famous gold-digging centre, is mildly in-
terested in the discovery of a patch of osmi-
ridium by a casual fossicker. He won’t say
where his find is ; still, a mild rush has set
in on the old Londonderry ground between
Stawell and Ararat. The early goldminers
in Australia, as in Papua, had little time
for osmiridium or platinum, the presence of
either in the wash being looked on as an
unmitigated nuisance, owing to the diffi-
culty of separating- it from the alluvial gold.
It is quite likely that patches of discarded
osmiridium are to be found on some of
the old fields. That proved the case on the
Papuan goldfields, and when miners began
to understand its value some nice sums
were cleaned up from the old gold workings
on the Gira and Yodda.
* * * #
“Cuzinjan”: The Commonwealth is to
make £5OOO available for re-opening old
workings and for driving and sinking upon
a number of promising indications at the
eastern end of the Moonta field (S.A.).
About 51 men will be employed. The miners
have agreed to work for the much reduced
rate of 11s. Bd. per shift, and surface hands
will receive 10s. 2d. Hopes are that the
Federal Government will consider financing
the erection of a flotation plant if sufficient
ore is proved. The S.A. Department of
Mines will direct operations, and carry out
sampling and assaying. Moonta, like many
otlier old fields, is essentially a tributor’s
proposition.
* * * *
Freney Oil Co. (W.A.) is in a quandary.
It has been unlucky with one bore, and funds
in hand are barely sufficient to drill another.
It has been suggested that the Anglo-Persian
crowd be invited to take a hand in the
search, or that some of the Ivalgoorlie gold-
digging cos. be urged to acquire an interest.
But in these lean times, when expenditure on
the Golden Mile frequently exceeds earnings,
Ivalgoorlie is not likely to bite.
* * * *
C. G. Gibson, whom Adelaide nowadays
almost invariably dispatches to look up new
finds and run the rule over old ones, lias
been inspecting the Kimberley Options’ shows
at Edjudina and the Princess Royal at
Westonia. The former he describes as a
gougers’ venture of little value to a co., and
the latter as a property whose future lies
principally in developments eastward of the
present workings.
* * * *
In Larkinville, near Widgiemooltha, West-
ralia has the best alluvial field discovered
since Ivurnalpi. A few of the old-timers are
there, and slugs, though not big, are fairly
plentiful. A big area of untried ground has
yet to be turned over. There are about 125
men on the field. Water costs 16s. Sd. per
100 gallons.
* * * *
Much-travelled Hansel Mundy in a recent
report says that the area pegged at Edjudina
(,W.A.) proved a dud, and that the board is
looking for something elsewhere in that State.
The co. was first known as the Chaffinch ;
after an unsuccessful career at Bullfinch it
changed its name, but not its luck.
* * :|:
Some of the Malayan mines show a profit
for October, despite the slump in tin prices.
Kuala Kampar tops the list with £3150, and
six other of Alluvial Tin’s shows balance on
the right side. Four of the working Austral
Malay shows are also ahead of it, Asam,
with £625, being the leader. This company
has resolved to keep Ivampong No. 1 dredge,
and the Thabawleik and IJlu Yam plants,
which were closed down last month, on the
peg until happier days dawn. Asam and
Ivampong No. 2 will knock off the .Sunday
shifts until further notice.
* * * s|s
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Of what value are black diamonds?
(2) Where do they come from? (3) A .Sydney
expert who would value them? (4) Likely
place of selling?. —BB43.
(1) From £lO to £35 per metric carat,
the price varying according to quality and
size. (2) Brazil. (3) Try Jules Joris, 228
Pitt-street, Sydney. (4) The Goldfields
Diamond Drilling Co., Ltd. (Agents: Sulli-
van Machinery Co., 58 Margaret-street,
Sydney.)
(1) What are barytes and hematite?
(2) Names of buyers? (3) Quantity used in
Australia annually? (4) Export trade, and,
to what countries? (5) Brices? (6) Is
there a good .market? (7) Uses? —9B62.
(1) Barytes is sulphate of barium and
hematite is red oxide of iron. (2) Minerals,
Ltd., Alexandria; Austral Rock Milling Co.,
Newtown; McLeod and Co., Alexandria;
Taubmans, Ltd., St. Peters—all Sydney. (3)
Figures not available. (4) Practically nil. (5)
Price of barytes ranges from £2 to £5 per ton ,
of hematite from 255. to £lO, each depending
upon quality. (6) There is a good demand
for the high-grade minerals. (7) Barytes is
used mainly in the manufacture of paint.
Hematite is used principally in the manu-
facture of iron and paint. For the latter
purpose soft bright red ores are preferred.
(1) Is there any information to show
whether Bobodah (N.8.W.) district is a
suitable locality to prospect for gold? (2)
Did Father Curran express the opinion that
the richest gold-bearing country in Australia
was on the Bogan watershed? (3) Does the
gold in a lode or reef usually increase with
depth, or is the surface or near the surface
stone sufficient to assay? (4) If a surface
assay shows gold, though not sufficient to be
payable, is it advisable to sink or look else-
where ? —9873.
(1) Bobadah is not a favorable district
for individual prospectors who are not sup-
ported by substantial financial backing.
Alluvial gold is not present in appreciable
quantities, and lode formations require capi-
tal to develop. (2) Father Curran’s allegedly
expressed opinion is not substantiated by
N.S.W. Mines Department information. (3)
Gold occurs as a rule in more or less isolated
Shoots in a lode formation, and relative
values of surface stone or material from a
greater depth depend upon the presence of
such shoots. Speaking generally, gold values
are better in the oxidised portion of a lode
that is, above the level of ground wpter,
which varies. (4) Too speculative to offer
an opinion on. Try surface trenching along
outcrop of lode. Shoots occur both horizon-
tally and vertically disseminated.
(1 ) According to published figures the note
issue could be in&'eased by 35.4 p.c. and still
remain within the statutory limit. What
would be the effect of an increase of 35.4
p.c.? (2) You state (B. 5/11/’3O) that,
apart from gold held by the Commonwealth
Bank against the note issue, there is only
just over six millions in the banks (ordi-
nary banks, £4,721,913, Commonwealth
Bank, £1,376,850). Is that £1,376,850 the
amount of gold coin and bullion held by the
Commonwealth Bank in excess of the statu-
tory amount of £25 gold per £lOO notes
issue? (3) llas all gold in the vaults of
the ordinary banks been “taken over ” in
exchange for Government paper? (4) From
Kept., 1029, to Sept., 1930, inclusive,
£29,791,571 gold was exported and £292,437
gold imported—net export, £29,499,134.
What part of this consisted of gold coin and
bullion, and how is the balance made up? —Bs.
(1) The fact that the £1 Australian note
is worth less than £1 English shows that
Commonwealth notes are already over-issued.
A further issue, even within the statutory
limit, would bring the value of the Austra-
lian note still lower. (At present it is about
18s. English.) (2) The Note Issue Depart-
ment’s holding is separate from the bank’s.
(3) The banks have handed over all gold
except the amount mentioned, and most of
it has been exported to meet our overseas
obligations. (4) The £29,499,134 includes
about £1,500,000 of current production.
Practically all of it is coined before ship-
ment. To that end the Perth Mint was
kept going after Sydney had been closed: it
is responsible nowadays for three-fourths of
the Australian gold coinage.
BRIEF ANSWER'S.
F.G.8.: No. 1, unless No. 2’s business had
very heavy book debts or other outstanding credits.
....Slumpo: (1) Compared with 12 months ago
Australian bank-share prices have shrunk approxi-
mately : N. S. Wales 35 p.c., Com. of Sydney 27
p.c., National 33 p.c., Com. of Australia and A.B.C.
41 p.c. (2) As prudently managed as any.. ..5.8.:
Depends entirely on your circumstances. If you can
take a risk, hold. . . .P.T.H.: Union, Australasia and
E., S. and A. are the Australian banks with head
offices in London... .W.L.G.P.: If safety is very
important, No. 3; No. 2 if the money is wanted
quickly. .. .C.P.K.: (1) It is a gamble at long odds.
(2) Don’t know where you could find a buyer. ...
W.S.McA.: You might have done better;' still it is
one of the best of the younger offices... .8759: No
information to be got re Bland’s Valves, Ltd
J.F.: A difficult question; so much depends on how
tin prices behave. What would we do ? Stick to the
co., and so buy a chance of recovery; forfeiture
would entail a sure dead loss.


fplgill
1®;
; ■ ■;■:•■■
; ■ ■■
,
1
'mm
3*,
i
*7?...
mmm
■
iiiiiii
wmmmm
mmm
WKimm.
m
utt ■
.
X
«m « s
sc
IMi
... x
Reliable, fast,
economical,’ says A. J. Bush
Chevrolet builds his
"on time’’ reputation
TWENTY years running motor trucks qualify Mr. A. J. Bush,
Wholesale Butcher, of Burwood, N.S.W., to speak with authority.
“Chevrolet stands alone for reliability and economy,” he writes. “My
Chevrolet 30-cwt. Truck delivers daily around outlying suburbs—
always on time. Average petrol mileage is over 24 miles a gallon.
Not once has it been off the road or shown any suspicion of strain.”
Chevrolet is earning similar praise from keen business men every-
where. They tell how Chevrolet soon pays for itself in expense saved
and profits made. They are enthusiastic about the advantage
Chevrolet gives them over their competitors, i through wider areas
served, bigger loads carried, more loads per day, and business freed
from the handicap of faulty delivery and excessive overhead.
To-day ask your local dealer how the Chevrolet 30-cwt. Truck
can serve your business.
G.M.A.C. will finance your purchase of Chevrolet on convenient
monthly instalments. General Motors (Australia) Pty. Ltd., Brisbane,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth. “More Wealth for Australia—■
More Jobs for Australians.”
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
Metropolitan Distributor:
METROPOLITAN MOTORS LTD. JOHN McGRATH LTD. STOKOE MOTORS PTY. LTD.
Adelaide Street - - Brisbane 143 Crown St. - Sydney 559-565 Elizabeth St. - Melbourne
CITY MOTORS LTD. SYDNEY ATKINSON MOTORS,
95 Waymouth St., Adelaide Rter Sueet, - - - PeiliX.
Chevrolet Six
3o
CWT
9 Reasons for
Choosing Chevrolet
1. Greater value —a Six, at the
price of an ordinary Four.
2. Finer performance — 6-cylinder
engine, 4 -speed gearbox,
4 -wheel brakes, designed for
years of trouble-free life.
3. Greater power and ruggedness,
ensuring satisfactory results
in all conditions.
4. Service and genuine spare parts
everywhere.
5. Greater suitability.
6. Greater earning power, because
of its economy, speed, and
low upkeep.
7. Sedan Cab means greater driver
comfort and efficiency.
8. Smart appearance —a splendid
advertisement for your busi-
ness.
9. Complete unit — chassis, body,
cab—warranted for one year.
y CHEVROLET j


Ifentwm
Motei
BRISBANE
ŧ
7hp cen/re of Queens/a nc/&
'dis/ingu/sfac/ Soc/cr/ Life.
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 85211—6 Line*.
CLIFTON GARDENS HOTEL
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Limited).
Sydney's Well-known Harbor Hotel
III IMM
050
m
QUIET and RESTFUL—
an ideal Winter Home, as
Warm in Winter as the
South of France. The
Most Sheltered Spot on
the Harbor, with Private
Beach and Amphitheatre
Swimming Baths, Spacious
Grounds and Garage
Accommodation.
TARIFF:
From 4£ Guineas.
LUNCHEONS. AFTER-
NOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes’
trip from City by Ferry
or Motor.
Overlooking Harbor and Ocean.
RESERVATIONS: Y 3012 (4 lines)
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
m
ill
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Telephone: F 4141.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Mr. Cato”: Dave, much smitten with the
charms of Sarah Mulligan, took a seat on
the top-rail alongside her dad and asked for
her hand. Mulligan scratched his head.
“Well now,” he said, “d’ye think ye’d be able
to support a family?” Dave declared his
ability, .enlarging on the acreage and the
fertility of his holding, and enumerating his
live stock. “Well, thin,” said Mulligan,
“think over it, me bhoy—there’s twilve av
us, remimber.”
* * * *
“Pemad”: Add to the list of Australia's
favorite timbers white rosewood (in M.L.
they call it laurel). This is a soft white
HE KNEW ALL ABOUT IT.
MINE MANAGER: “Had any experience with explosives?”
APPLICANT (for powder-monkey's job): “Exper’unce! Why, Cap’n, I been blawed up
three times since I was jour teen.”
w T ood, easily worked, having a distinctive
grain diversified with large dark brown
spots. White rosewood has been extensively
employed throughout Australasia for many
years in the manufacture of furniture of all
kinds; but nowadays the importation of
kerosene in bulk has cut off the supply to
tile out-back home designer.
“E.S.S.”: The bush
in the vicinity of north-
ern canefields for a
brief season is alive at
night with busy hunt-
ers, and scores of lan-
tern lights go twink-
ling among the trees
and shrubs. They are
hatching beetles, for
which the mills give
them Is. a pound. Some
of the mills last summer
were paying out up to
£lOOO a week. The
catchers are mainly
men and hoys, though
here and there whole
families go out, equip-
ped with bags and tins
and sheets and lanterns
For the boys of the dis-
trict the pest provides
a royal harvest. To
many a swagmau also
it gives welcome and
lucrative omploymenl
The cane beetles lay
their eggs in the ground,
and the grubs feed on
the roots of the cane.
In summer the beetles
emerge in millions and
fly into the trees. Then
the catching begins.
The hunters average
about 101 b. a night, and
it takes 200 beetles to
make a pound. Som“
Proserpine boys caught
8001 b. in three weeks
When the experts ar
not catching beetle
they are talking beetles,
and marvellous hauls
are told of.
“Purple Brigadier”: Tucked away in one
of the reports of ex-Chief Federal Capital
Commissioner Butters is an epigram: “In
the final analysis no successful form of
government ever is democratic.” That is
an axiom that was proved in upon me when
I took up my duties in the semi-barbaric
island of Bosh. The hereditary ruler, a
saffron-colored youth with names and titles
a yard long, feared assassination. His dad,
who started life as a dealer in pigs and
wound up as the founder of a dynasty, had
done things to the people that made the
blood-sucking capitalistic octopus look like a
day-old chick. His successor, a half-breed,
hadn’t the pluck to carry on in the old style,
and H. M. Government, which had estab-
lished a “sphere of influence” in his domain,
wouldn’t have let him do so had he tried.
I was sent to promote industry and see that
he didn’t try. I found him in a blue funk,
hiding in the seraglio, and he gladly agreed
CHOOSING THE BRAND.
BILLY: “You christenem piccaninny, Boss?”
PARSON: “Yes. What name are you giving him?”
BILLY: “That pfeller howl all night. Mine tinkit we call ' im Dingo — eh?”
to my suggestion that he should replace abso-
lute monarchy with constitutional govern-
ment. Bosh was a debtor nation, I may
remark, due to the extravagance of the ex-
pig-dealer, who had acquired a taste for
imported luxuries, and the populace had
their noses to the grindstone to pay the
taxes. Well, we had an election, with three
parties—have-alls, have-nots and in-betweens
—and the nation entered into the spirit of
the thing with such gusto that I’m convinced
there was an Irish strain in its beginnings.
Fiscal questions cropped up quite early in
the shindy, and there arose a leader of the
have-nots, a man with a prognathous jaw,
who said that Bosh would never be happy
again till it blockaded its two harbors, im-
pregnably fortified its rocky shores, and told
the foreign bondholders to go to blithering
blazes. It was a popular programme, and it
collected most of the votes. If I hadn’t
sent for two large cruisers, which, tied up,
one in each harbor, before the Ministry was
sworn in, the new Premier would un-
doubtedly have rounded up all his political
opponents and had them shot at dawn. He
is now the Sultan of Bosh, and the nation’s
debts have been put on a sinking-fund basis
that will extinguish them, with luck, in 99
years. The shores are not fortified, it being
found impossible to borrow money for such a
non-productive undertaking,, and I am
credibly informed that the minimum penalty
for bilking the tax-collector is skinning
alive.
* =h * t-
“O.W.W.”: Henare was concerned about
his friend Jimmy, the bookie. “Pie must hafe
gone mad,” he informed me; “pecause I hear
he peen arrested for petting [betting] with
birds.” “With birds?” I echoed. “Plow
could he?” “Tunno,” answered the native,
looking puzzled; “but they orra say he ket
te spin in chokey for petting with minahs.”
* * * *
“Up North”: A sporadic outburst of
vailala (madness) in New Guinea recently
made residents prayerful that the frenzied
OroJcolo Icava-kava of 1919 would not be re-
peated. The madness flared up first in Nomu
and Arihavu villages in the Papuan Western
Division, and spread throughout the coun-
try with alarming rapidity. In scores of
villages the whole native population went
completely mad, and white officials were
driven nearly crazy trying to cope with
them. The form the insanity took was a
fixed belief that the spirits of ancestors
were about to return to their former haunts
as reincarnated white men. They were to
arrive in a great white. ship which would
soar down from the skies. Every village
was en fete. From painted poles flew gaudy
streamers; palm branches and flowers decked
every house, and men. women and children
danced garlanded with the gayest flowers.
Even the pigs were decorated. Every village
rigged up a table with seats “white-man
fashion,” the table sagging under a great
feast, while thousands of wild eyes glared
upwards awaiting the guests. The people
bodies twitched as if possessed of violent St.
Vitus’s dance; their heads jerked as if under
an electric current; the fall of a leaf was
sufficient to send them into a screaming dance.
All work ceased; the gardens were pulled
up to supply the feasts ; all awaited the “com-
ing of the ghosts” which was. to bring about
—no one knew what. At night some lunatic
would yell “Sail-ho!” and the whole village
would tumble out shrieking, naked women
holding torches dancing under the palms,
while men howled in abandon. The visitation
endured for months, but after the authorities
had mustered the most violent lunatics into
compounds the malady was slowly stamped
out.
* * * *
“Wang”: Dave was growling about the
toughness of the meat dished up for dinner.
“Tough, yer call it V” cried Dad, “Why, y’orter
had a go at some of th’ meat I’ve tackled in
me time. It was that tough we had t’
sharpen our teeth before we cud eat it,”
“Well,” retorted Dave, “if yer’d provide a
bloke with a file I’d sharpen mine now.
I’d proberly be able ter cut through it then.”
Dad was a bit taken back; then he sud-
denly brightened. “But my teeth was
natchral,” he said, “yours is false.” “I ain’t
meanin’ them I’ve got in me mouth,” snorted
Dave; “I mean th’ new crosscut-saw I bought
yesterday.”
* * * *
“Arikiwai”: “Fernie’s” picturesque yarn
(B. 17/9/’3O) about Nelson’s populace bandi-
cooting their spuds to feast on the tubers
while replanting the eyes may be authentic,
but it was certainly not the origin of the
term “Spud Monday.” Nelson’s old-timers
were intensely English in sentiment. The vil-
lage was the see of an Anglican bishop, and
in its embryo stage was elevated to the dig-
nity of a city by Royal Charter, the only
instance of its kind in Maoriland. The
August “Bank ’Oliday” was an institution of
Fogland religiously preserved among Nelson
tradesmen, and is so to this day. Occurring
in early spring in the new land, the day is
invariably devoted by Dad to planting the
family potato patch; hence “Spud Monday.”
■f * * *
“Mayne Stay”: The green flash, about
which there have been several pars, in The
Bulletin lately, emanates from the just-set
or not-yet-quite-risen sun seen through the
sea. Navigators use the phenomenon to
measure refraction. Jules Verne wrote a
book round it called “The Green Ray,” a
Scottish love story in which the hero
and heroine are continually trying to glimpse
the flash, there being a superstition in west-
ern Scotland that the sight brings luck.
The effect is not often witnessed,, even in the
tropics, where conditions are supposed to be
most favorable. On a recent voyage
from Aden to Adelaide I made a careful
watch and saw it only four times.
MATES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s nobody but me to-night beside the
campfire, Joe.
The hills are black upon the right as they
were long ago;
The stars are winkin’ overhead; the same
moon looks at me
Above the gums as when you said: “Well,
what’s it goin’ to be?
“They’re callin’ now for every man to go
and do his bit,
An’ we’ll be in it if we can—an’ that’s the
end of it.”
We raked the ashes out next day and folded
up the tent—
The creek is chatterin’ just as gay as on the
night we went.
It doesn’t seem like thirteen years since that
one found its mark,
As we came up from Armentihres, a-splashin’
through the dark
But now, though things look much the way
they looked those years ago,
There’s just a ghost—an’ me grown grey—
beside the campfire, Joe.
VICTORIA.
P.T.F.


LONS LIFE
& a
WfwO
y Owing to special
process in manu-
facture of the lead,
the ‘Mephisto’ Copy-
ing Pencil lasts much
longer, yet writes
easily and smoothly
without heavy
pressure.
Medium, Hard and
Extra Hard Degrees.
THE POPULAR
COPYING PENCILS
Also in 8 colours for checking, itc.
From all Stationers, etc.
L. ft C. HARDTMUTH, of “ KOH-I-NOOR ” Pencil fame.
London Office—29, Kingsway. W.C.2
Australian Representative
JOHN MACDOUGALL, P. O. Box 165, SYDNEY.
m
TecalemiT Ltd.
LUBRICATION EXPERTS
MITRE HOUSE, SCRUBBS LANE,
WILLESDEIM, LONDON, N.W. 10
LUBRICATION BY AUTOMATIC
HAND GUNS.
HIGH PRESSURES WITH CLEANLINESS
AND AUTOMATIC ACTION OPERATED
BY ONE HAND ONLY.
(Slide-on or Push-on Connectors.)
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street Perth
Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street Adelaide
Keep Bros. & Wood Pty., Ltd., Bateman Street .. Melbourne
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street Sydney
Martin, Wilson Bros., Ltd., 299 Adelaide Street .. Brisbane
Factory Representative:
Mr. James Thornell, 312 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“Corktree Charley”; A recent paragraph
about the gentle Malayans having to find a
new word for ice when that amenity of
tropical and sub-tropical civilisation first
arrived in their benighted land reminds me
of an incident at the official opening of the
Ttickanarra (W.A.) public battery in 1896.
Some Minister or Minister’s offsider had
brought up a block of ice from Cue, the rail-
way head, for Tuckanarra to temper its beer
with—it was a scorching January day. Out-
side the pub dining-room, where a banquet
was being held and liquor and oratory were
both flowing freely, a knot of grizzled old
battlers were seated on a form—prospectors
and dryblowers who had, like as not, worked
their way down from the Kimberleys and
AND MA HEARD HIM, TOO!
“Listen, darling. You know what mother
is; so you won’t mind giving up your
bedtime spot while she’s here, will you?”
“Why, that’s all right, old girl. I’ll get
enough in for both of us.”
were unlikely to have seen such a thing as
frozen water for many a long year. Some
silly ass of a humorist leaned out of the
window and dropped a piece of ice down one
ancient gullyraker’s back —not a very diffi-
cult process, as the veteran wore nothing
above the belt but a flannel. The yell of
pain and the oath of vituperation that
rewarded his effort sent everyone to the
window to see what had happened. “Putting
a lighted match down an old man’s back!”
vociferated the victim. “Let me get at him!”
And I think if he could have got at him
before the joke was explained there might
have been murder done. In the end resent-
ment was washed away in beer, but it took
a lot of beer.
* * * *
“Alias”: Bladdereye, my native assistant
at Eyre’s Patch, an ordinary, hard-living,
hard-lying, dirty nigger, turned up one morn-
ing at the usual time and said cheerfully
and casually, “Chickiteye wantum.” I was
not proficient in local pidgin, so there fol-
PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
COHEN: “And vat if the pizness goes smash?”
ISAACSTEIN: “If ve go insolvent all the profits vill be equally divided, and then maybe
ve start again.”
lowed a long dialogue, not a word of which
was intelligible to either party. At last I
tried “What for wantum?” and got results.
“Burnumup; you lookum.” Removal of an
incredibly filthy shirt exposed an area of raw
chest the size of a dessert plate with rib
bones gleaming through a two-inch hole in
the centre. Bladdereye had turned in close
to the fire, which had burned through blanket,
shirt, dirt, skin and flesh without disturbing
his slumber. After ransacking the place the
best I could do was half a tin of axle-grease,
with which the patient went off contentedly
to round up 17 camels. He watered them by
hand at the well in the sandhills, brought
them in for the usual look-over, hobbled
them and turned them loose. About sun-
down he drew rations, including an extra
half-stick of tobacco, and cleared joyfully
for camp with his wife, piccaninnies and
dogs to apply the dressing. He didn’t miss
a day’s work, and four weeks later an insig-
nificant scar was the only reminder of his
experience.
* :Jc # He
“Jeff”: Some years ago, while fishing from
a wall in a northern (N.S.W.) river, my
attention was drawn to whar
appeared at first sight a revolving
ball of seaweed. As it passed me
in the moonlight I detected what
looked like many tails. I hast-
ened to head it off, and with the
help of my lantern discovered it
to be a closely-packed mass of
young catfish. Only last month I
witnessed the same thing again
farther south. The little fishes,
about five to six inches long, were
passing in and out of the mass like
bees in a hive. Possibly they
cluster round some food substance in the
centre of the moving mass, but of that I
can’t be sure.
“Tampaksiring” : Below my bungalow here
in Bali is what appears to be an extensive
forest of large trees. It covers an area
of fully 2000 sq. ft. Actually it is a
single Indian fig. It has approximately 250
main trunks and upwards of 2000 smaller
ones, all formed from the downward-reaching
, aerial roots. Another specimen, not so large
but more sensational because of its situation,
is the famous waringin-tree in the grounds
of the swanky Hotel des Indes in Batavia.
Amongst its roots are several self-contained
flats, occupied by the gardeners’ families.
The management wanted to extend the ball-
room a few years ago and decided to chop the
tree down. The tree being “kramat” or
sacred they only averted a strike by altering
the plan of the ballroom so as to preserve
the arboreal deity.
“Avon”: Though Maoriland is relatively
a small country there are large tracts, rugged
and mountainous, on the south-west of the
South Island that have never yet been
explored. It was recently suggested by an
elderly Maori that the main body of a tribe
long believed to be nearly extinct, the Ngati-
mamoe, lives on in this wilderness of lakes
and fiords, in ignorance of the white invasion.
The tribe is supposed by some to have gone
to this obscure retreat about 1650, after
having suffered defeat in three great battles
with the Ngatahu, but the general tradition
amongst the Maoris is that the conquered
tribe was absorbed by its conquerors. Against
this is the testimony of Captain Roberts,
master of the Ilinemoa, to the effect that
when his ship was anchored in Dusky Sound
last summer a Maori in native dress sud-
denly climbed over the side. He did not speak,
but gesticulated fiercely, apparently demand-
ing that the vessel should go away at once.
Then ho dived overboard again and swam
ashore, to be seen no more. No Maoris are
known to have a pa anywhere in that part
of the island.
* * * *
“Carrick, A. 8.”: Sailors know a bit about
broaching liquid cargo so that it
won’t show. To tap a cask, the
shellbacks get a couple of capstan-
bars and a length of stout, new
four-inch Manilla rope. With these
a “Spanish windlass” is rigged
around the belly of the cask, and
when it is hove taut a thin trickle
starts from every joint and runs
down into a dish placed beneath.
After, when the rope is removed,
the bung seals are unbroken and
not a mark remains to show that
the cask has been tampered with.
When bound for a South Ameri-
can port, skippers usually take a
few bottles of wine, intended as
presents for the port officials. To
tap these bottles the aid of the
ship’s carpenter is enlisted. Chips
wraps the bottle in oakum, clamps
it bottom upwards in his vyce, puts
a three-cornered file into the
chuck of his brace, and, with the
aid of a few drops of turpentine,
bores a hole through the glass. The
wine is extracted and replaced
with sea-water. A dab of sealing-
wax completes the job, leaving cork and foil
undamaged.
s': ❖ * *
“C. Coral”: The advice of “Polycarp” (B.
l/10/’3O) to “let Binghi alone” would have
been more useful had it been handed out
a century or so earlier. I’ve heard the
“Leave ’em alone” slogan a good many times,
but always with an exception. Anthropolo-
gists, scientists, gold-liunters, travelling
traders and movie-picture men have all at
one time or another told me the same thing,
with the proviso that of course they must be
allowed to call on Binghi in his primeval
fastness. It is true that Binghi is being
given every facility to travel the downhill
road to extinction ; but observers will notice
that he is being replaced on the landscape
bv the Euralian, the result of the mating of
white male with black female without the
formality of marriage lines. If Binghi tries
to help the situation by making a half-
caste infant the tit-bit at the cannibal
feast, Government sends out police to teach
him that white-man law won’t let him alone.
HOW PERCIVAL FELT ABOUT IT.
DIANA THE WELL-ENDOWED (after the ceremony ): “And are you sure you are quite
happy, Percival?”
PERCIVAL (penurious but hopeful ): “My happiness is so great, Diana, that I feel as if
I would like to take it by instalments.”
KELLY’S GRIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I saw Kell in Barrack-street, walking pretty
slow;
Felt quite sure he was a man that I used
to know;
But he tricked me for a bit —couldn’t fit
him in—
Till he came across to me, and I saw his
grin.
I knew Kell in Blackboy Camp—God, how
long ago!
I knew Kell beyond Bapaume in the mud
and snow.
And no matter where he was, or how crook
the spin,
There was nothing that could quite wipe out
Kelly’s grin.
I’ve known Kell w T hen all was cold, and when
things were hot,
And he always saw a joke that the rest
could not.
Though, at times, he made me swear, give
the man his due,
’Twasn’t long before he made others see it,
too.
Things were crook with Kell to-day; Kelly’s
getting on,
Nearly all he ever had, bar his grin, has
gone.
But I’m glad, and so is he, that I didn’t
miss
Such a sight as Kelly’s grin at a time like
this.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


INVESTIGATE-INVEST.
There may be a few who get rich quickly and easily, but they are a mere
handful compared with the vast army that gets poor quickly in the vain
effort to emulate them. The small investor is the one most tempted to dabble
in apparently “get-rich-quick” investment offers, and he is the one hardest
hit when they do not “come off,” as indeed they rarely do.
The sagacious citizen will turn his money over to a Bank, which is
wisely restricted in the channels wherein it may invest, to do the investing
for him.
Investigate first, and you will find that the Savings Account provides
the safest and most convenient form of investment, and pays a reasonable
interest return, which in the long run is the safest and best kind.
There is a Post Office Agency in every town.
fcmonwealfl) Savings JBank of Australia
( Guaranteed, by the Commonwealth Government.)
LEFEVER NITRO SPECIAL HAMMERLESS
Sff
LEFEVER NITBQ SPECIAL.
PRICE
£7/15/-
WONDERFUL VALUE IN DOUBLE-BARREL GUNS.
O.K.’D AND PURCHASED IN QUANTITIES BY U.S. NAVY.
A Lefever Gun is made to shoot right, and throws a pattern superior to many guns much
higher in price.
The lock was designed by the best gunmakers in America, and gunsmiths the country over
say it is the best designed lock ever put in a gun. The first lock was snapped over 77,000
times, and the first Lefever Nitro Special Gun was fired about 10,000 times without a break.
A Lefever Gun won the World’s Championship at the Olympic Games in London.
The name Lefever on a gun has stood for service and durability for 50 years.
The best gun ever offered for anything near the price. Made in 12, 16, 20 and 410 gauge.
“WHOEVER SAW A BROKEN LEFEVER?”
Va
LTD
PTY
THE GUN PEOPLE,
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street}
MELBOURNE.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
TIIIS MINERAL DEFICIENCY.
"R. Iv. Deea”: Given a lead, the producer
is a good buyer, and under certain conditions
this characteristic may be exploited. Aus-
tralian soils, as is well known, are deficient
in phosphoric acid. Probably the lime defi-
ciency is just as common ; at all events the
soils in “cripple” country, similar to my
Victorian district, show a low lime content.
Combine these two minerals and we have
approximately 80 per cent, of the mineral
content of bone. This proves the very great
importance of phosphoric acid and lime.
Scientific investigations abroad have shown
that iodine deficiency accounts for goitre and
the hairless pig, but research in Australia has
not definitely shown an all-round iodine
deficiency. Then we have a minor detail in
manganese deficiency being the cause of an
oat disease.
Every week or so I am invited to buy a pre-
paration for sheep, one for milking cows, or
one for use in the poultry yard. Always the
stuff has a fancy name and is said to con
tain all the essential minerals. Almost with-
out exception my neighbors are dabbling in
these high-priced commodities. Following a
recent visit I obtained a sample of a lick
and had it analysed. The material contained
98 per cent, of common salt.
In my experience the less medicine we take
the better. When we resort to it let it
be only on the prescription of a medical
adviser. The rule holds good for stock-feed-
ing. Feed naturally with plenty of good
wholesome food, relying on the various foods
to supply a well-balanced ration; balanced
not only from the standpoint of proteids,
fat and carbo-hydrates but also as regards
ash —that is, minerals. An increase in the
foods having a high ash content means an
increase in the supply of minerals, such as
lime, magnesia, iron, sulphur, salt, phos-
phoric acid, manganese and iodine. Judicious
manuring of crops increases the ash content
of the fodder.
No doubt there are licks which are a care-
ful blend of substances. Let those who
fancy them buy them. For my stock I’m
going to stick to bonemeal, plus mild lime
(limestone), plus salt, purchased as such by
myself. Then I won’t be buying a pig iii
a poke or foisting mineral into my animals
to the detriment of their health and strength.
I should add that I am using salt because
I am not in a salt district: if I were in
the Vic. Mallee salt would be cut out alto-
gether.
LUCERNE FOR GRAZING.
“Jumbuck”: After many years’ experience
I have found that the planting of lucerne for
grazing is the best and surest method of
increasing the stock-carrying capacity of a
holding. Lucerne is a great drought-resister,
and will grow and give good results on a
very wide variety of soil and climate. In com-
paratively dry parts (I refer particularly to
N.S.W.) a thunderstorm that would be of
no use in starting the seed of natural pas-
ture will be sufficient to set lucerne growing
and give some feed.
In semi-arid parts avoid heavy sow-
ings. Three to four pounds of seed is ample
for a grazing stand; it is essential to work
the ground well beforehand. No hard-and-
fast rule can be laid down as to the best
time to sow; much depends on the season
and the condition of the soil. In the drier
parts I advocate autumn or early-winter sow-
ing, to allow the plant to get a good hold
before the dry, hot weather sets in. Con-
trary to the generally accepted notion,
lucerne will not be killed by frost if there is
any moisture in the ground.
The only care needed in grazing lucerne,
apart from the danger of bloat, is not to
keep stock on it for too long at one time.
Paddocks must be small and be stocked
heavily for short periods. The stand should
be eaten out in from ten days to a fort-
night, and the stock then removed to another
paddock to admit of the lucerne growing
again until it reaches the flowering stage.
If this is done, a stand will last for many
years; with constant stocking for too
long a period it will be killed out in a couple
of seasons.
SMALL-SCALE DAIRYING.
“Buckwong”: On farms in districts with
a decent rainfall, where dairying is carried
on only for home use, the owners would
usually be well-advised to consider the milk-
ing of a few extra cows if disposal of cream
is practicable. Most of such “dry” farmers
will tell you that they are too busy, and
that, anyhow, these small-scale enterprises
are unprofitable—take up too much time. I
have always found where cows are milked at
all that bringing them into the yard is what
takes by far the most time, and that half
a dozen cows are less trouble to yard than
one. And when I have to go to the trouble
ot getting them in, it is-a considerable satis-
faction to be recompensed for that trouble.
In many, I think most, cases the women
and children of the farm would be ready to
milk and look after a few cows— if they got
the proceeds. I know of cases where a busy
housewife has found time thus to handle up
to half a dozen cows without having to ask
husband or father for a bob of pin-money the
year round. Even with butterfat at Is. per
pound, four good cows should keep any
ordinary household supplied with milk and
butter and bring in £4O per annum besides.
The calves, if well reared, would pay for
the grass; and where women and children
are on the job the calves are pretty sure
to be well reared. With a plough on the
place the profits may be made much surer
and larger by putting in a small area for
late and early feed.
MAORILAND CHEESE.
“Avon ’: Maoriland is jealous about the
reputation of its cheese, which for many
years has stood very high on the London
market. Until the duty was tightened up
the cheese had a fairly good market in
Australia, too. Now the dairying community
is up in arms because of the introduction by
the Dairy Division of the Agriculture Depart-
ment of a method of making what is known
as “standardised” cheese.
To every 1001 b. of whole milk testing at
4 per cent, is added 17.6641 b. of skim milk.
The department has proved by elaborate
analysis that the maker gets a better return
by this method than if “full-cream” cheeie
were produced. But the innovation is far
from popular. It is alleged that many com-
plaints have been received from Tooley-street
that the quality of the product has greatly
deteriorated, but this is denied by the N. Z.
Dairy Co., the biggest manufacturer of
cheese and butter in the world. Against
that, 60 North Island factories changed over
from “standardised” to “full cream” cheese
this season, the chairman of the Dairy Pro-
duce Board has roundly condemned standardi-
sation, and the South Island Dairy Associa-
tion wants standardising abolished.
THE HORSE-YARD.
“Mulyan”: I have seen dozens of good
horses with their hips knocked down, mostly
caused in yards built of split posts and mor-
tised-in rails. This is the common way of
building yards, but 3in. of the edges of the
posts stick out from the rails. Horses bump
against the projecting parts, and, besides the
risk of injury by that means, the split posts
and rails are usually full of splinters or
are only roughly adzed.
All such enclosures should be built of
round timber, the posts from 9in. to 12in.
thick, and the rails from 4in. to 6in. Instead
of being mortised in, the rails should fit in
slots cut on the inside of the posts. Then
rails and side of posts will be flush, and a
horse can rub right round the enclosure with-
out incurring the slightest hurt. The best tim-
bers for rails are ironbark, box or coolabah
saplings, barked, and knots should be carefully
trimmed off. The rails can be cut long
enough to reach right across the side of a
small yard, and to span several panels of a
large yard; they are fastened to the posts
with strong nails or spikes.
A further advantage of this method is
that any decayed or broken rail is easily
replaced without having to remove the post.
In replacing a mortised-in rail it is neces-
sary to either partly dig out one post or
make a slip-panel of the rail, in which case
it has to be wedged or pegged to keep it
from slipping out.
The yard, with clean saplings, lasts for
years, and always looks neat. Four rails,
with a foot space between them and a cap,
give a height of about 7ft.; for all ordinary
purposes 6ft. is quite sufficient. Don’t put
wire between the rails, especially near the
bottom. Shed horses, pawing or kicking, are
liable to get the heel of the shoe caught on
the wire.
THE BRIDLE-BREAKER.
“Bad Australian”: “Wetherby’s” conten-
tion (B. 5/11/’3O) that it is hard, but not
impossible, to rid an imperfectly broken
horse of the habit of breaking bridles is cor-
rect in so far as it relates to beginners, but
once the animal becomes a confirmed bridle-
breaker no subsequent treatment will make
him forget the trick. I have seen imper-
fectly broken horses cured of pulling back
by methods similar to those described by
“W.D.Mc.” and “Jacques” (same date),
but only when the remedy was applied to
beginners. “Wetlierby’s” method of tying
a colt and forcing him to pull back (at inuni-
nent risk to the animal) is a survival from
the bad old days when the breaker's slogan
was “Rope ’em, rough ’em and run ’em
through.”
A young horse js a very sensitive, highly-
strung animal, and should not in any circum-
stances be subjected to excessive physical
or nervous tension. He should be handled
kindly and gently, and in such a way as to
prevent him exerting his strength or realis-
ing what he really could do if he only knew
how. I have taught many young horses to
lead and tie up. using the simple and humane
method described in my article (B.
30/5/’2S), and have seen many more handled
in the same manner without suffering-the
least injury, either physical or temperamen-
tal ; and none of them to my knowledge ever
attempted to break a bridle.
“Wetherby” is unfortunate in his selec-
tion of a reason in support of his objection
to my statement that the first thing a colt
should be taught is to lead. For obvious
reasons the animal should always present
his face to his master, so that what my
critic appears to regard as a fault is really
an important part of its training.
TOBACCO-GROWING IN WESTRALIA.
“Wodgil”: Reference, in The Bulletin
to the great part tobacco-growing and -pro-
cessing have played in the settlement in Greece
of those 1,500,000 refugees from Asia Minor
(5/11/’3O) reminds me that Greeks have
found Westralia a suitable field for similar
enterprises. I refer to the Michelides
brothers, who, beginning in a very small way,
now manufacture five brands of cigarettes
and two of plug tobacco. They use in their
factories Greek, Turkish, American, Rhode-
sian, Latakia and Australian leaf, and are
buying Australian leaf on an increasing
scale. Their local purchases amounted to
11,0001 b. in 1927-28, 26,5001 b. in 1928-29,
and 80,0001 b. in 1929-30.
Last year the Michelides firm bought
10,0001 b. of leaf grown in Manjimup, a
south-west district. C. W. Slagg, the Ameri-
can expert who is Director of Tobacco
Investigation, told the Federal Parliamen-
tary Select Committee that he had been
“favorably impressed” with this Westralian
tobacco. With others associated with him
in his work he issued a report saying that
while “even the best and mildest samples
from Victoria and N. S. Wales carry a. slight
tang suggesting turpentine, Westralian
tobacco has a full sweetish aroma.”
The Michelides concern is going in for
tobacco-growing on its own account. It has
planted 20 acres in Westralia this year, and
intends increasing the area to 100 acres
next year, if all goes well. It is unfortu-
nate that blue mould should have made its
appearance in the State, hitherto free from
it. The Government has acted promptly, and
importation of tobacco seed is forbidden to
all but the Department of Agriculture.
CAMPAIGN AGAINST BUNCHYTOP.
Some interesting facts have been published
concerning the banana-growing industry,
which is witnessing a noteworthy revival.
Thanks to the stimulus given by the Greene
tariff, planting went on at such a rate that in
1922 N. S. Wales had 5468 acres under
bananas. Then came bunchytop—and disaster
for many growers. Within three years the
cropped area was down to 1504 acres. This
year, according to Minister Dunn, there are
4f!6 acres of bananas, and he expects an
increase to 7000 acres next year.
But bunchytop is still a menace, and the
Minister issues a much-needed warning. “The
regulations,” he says, “will be strictly en-
forced, even when plantations are reaching
the end of the profitable period or are declin-
ing through being planted in unsuitable
locations; neglected plantations are danger
centres for the spread of disease. The regu-
lations require that all plants affected with
bunchytop shall be adequately sprayed with
a contact insecticide. They must then be
grubbed out, the corm cut into slices of not
more than one inch in thickness, and the
stem split longitudinally. Growers are not
permitted to move or plant any plant or
any part of a plant of the genus Musa unless
a permit to do so has been issued by an
inspector.” But, since prevention is better
than cure, “inspectors are being instructed
to hold field days to instruct new growers
in the detection of the disease in its early
stages, and to explain their obligations in
regard to the destruction of diseased plants.”
“Ento,” replying to a critic of his article
(B. 1/10/’3O) on bunchytop, says: “V.J.5..”
(B. 22/10/30) imputes to me things I never
wrote and makes several errors of his own.
For instance, what he calls the Morse-code
markings can be induced by aphides that
are not carriers of the disease, and these are
always produced best on one side of the
midrib; it is therefore essential, before con-
demning a plant, to see that these marks
invade the narrow pale strip adjacent to the
midrib. Again, all aphides on diseased plants
are not carriers of the disease; the virus
acts peculiarly and the anomalies are under
investigation. Nor is it true that aphides
in disease-free zones are quite harmless to
the banana. The young plants can be so
undermined that there is insufficient vitality
to overcome the complications that set in,
and the plant will die. In the same way
‘complications will often cause the death of
diseased suckers, these succumbing appa-
rently to a rot caused by a fungoid growth.
THE OBSERVANT ORCITARDIST.
“L’Fou”: Part of the equipment of the
successful orchardist. consists of powers of
observation resembling those of a fictional
detective. A Victorian of my acquaintance
had- seen most of his earliest peaches fall
to the ground soon after setting. Hail, frost
or wind would produce this result during
the critical setting period. He noticed one
exception in an acre block, a stunted tree
that regularly produced heavy crops.
Propagations from this tree showed the
same toughness of bud that resisted shaking
and marked, changes, of temperature. Now,
all my friend’s early dessert peaches are
descendants of that single tough old parent.
While other crops in the district were dec!
mated by wind and weather his look so good
that folk say “He doesn’t get the force of
the wind,” or “The storm just missed him.”
An hereditary toughness of minute bud stalks
lias a cash value to him.
YABBIE HOLES IN IRRIGATION
BANKS.
“Pan urge”: Irrigation channels in
southern Riverina have suffered heavily
through the activities of the yabbie. His
delight is to run a hole through the banks,
usually well below high-water level, and then
move up a few feet and repeat. To dig out
each individual leak would take months,
and would be only a temporary remedy at
best. We use a 22-inch stream, and esti-
mated our loss of water at six inches.
A visit to Tailem Bend (S.A.) suggested
a remedy. There the river bank itself is
the channel bank, and leaks, if neglected,
would prove disastrous.
When opening a gap in the channel don’t
throw the earth on top of the bank. Put
it inside where the water will keep it soft.
A few hours in the sun and it is baked
hard. When you have finished draining, fill
all your gaps while the earth is wet. Don’t
leave it till the next time you water, or you
will have to dig a hole to fill another.
WAR ON THE CABBAGE-MOTH.
“Tiki”: Maoriland has risen in revolt at
long last against the depredations of the
cabbage-moth, alias the diamond-back moth,
alias Plutella maculipennis. This inter-
national criminal gobbles up root crops and
cabbages, and as there are 600,000 acres
under turnips and swedes alone in the Island
Dominion and the pest destroys hundreds of
tons of these each year, something has to be
done about it.
Spraying is ineffective, because the moth is
cunning. The larva feeds on the underside of
leaves, tunnelling into the tissues so deeply
that surface applications of poison are of
little avail. Not only this, but the larvae
are very alert. At the slightest touch or
disturbance they drop from their feeding-
places suspended by a silken thread. When
the danger has past they climb back. Biologi-
cal control seems the only sort of treatment
likely to cope with them, so the M. L. Agri-
culture Department is importing some
healthy stud stock of Angita plutella and
Angita jenestralis —picturesque-looking bugs,
all curves and feelers, which hate Plutella
like poison and pounce upon her larvae
and kill them by various unpleasant methods.
It is recorded that in Lincolnshire a few
years ago, Fcnestralis wiped out an invasion
of cabbage-moths in two generations. Similar
results are hoped for in M.L.
BIG PUMPKINS.
“Dimon”: Pumpkins, melons, etc., can be
increased enormously in size, and their
growth can be accelerated by hand-feeding, a
method sometimes adopted when growing for
show purposes. A strip of lamp-wick is
used, one end being inserted in the
stalk of the vegetable and the other placed
in a jar of water, which, in warm weather,
has to be frequently replenished. It must not
be forgotten, however, that the increased
bulk obtained is largely water, and thus
quality is likely to be sacrificed for quan-
tity.
For cattle and pigs, the mammoth hand-
fed pumpkins are good feed, and can be
recommended where there is only a small
plot of ground to grow them, but where there
is plenty of room, as on farms, the trouble
needed to produce monsters doesn’t pay. For
table purposes the naturally-grown pumpkins
are the best.
(Continued on page 25.)


vc Chocolates this
Cljristatas
No more acceptable present than one
of the famous Red Boxes of
HILLIERS
CHOCOLATES
Posted to you direct from the factory the
day they are made.
Prices, post free anywhere in Australia:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6, 20/-, 30/-, 37/6
ERNEST HILLIER, 162 Pitt Street, Sydney; and at Melbourne.
t
Danks’ Australian Power
Pumps Stand All Tests
They are made in our own works under severe tests, and are cheaper than
foreign-made pumps. Buy Australian-made when it is better and cheaper.
■n
\~l* 1
l jiW,
I
“BILLABONG”
IMPROVED DOUBLE-
ACTING PISTON PUMP
FOR LIFTS UP TO 200 FEET.
This is a medium-priced pump for use
with petrol or kerosene engines, and
combines power and capacity in a most
compact form.
Supplied also direct coupled to electric
motor. Made in our own works under
severe tests. Pump will exert a pressure
of 751 b. to the square inch. Sizes from
2Mn. to Bin. Write for leaflet.
“BILLABONG”
CENTRIFUGAL
PUMP
This rotary pump,
operated by belt-power,
delivers enormous quan-
tities of water. It has
large waterways, and a
steel shaft supported in
long journals of ample
size for cool running.
Fast and Joase pulleys are provided for kerosene or petrol engines’ use.
Also supplied either with electric motor attached, or with baseplate for attaching
your own motor.
Made in sizes from lin. to Bin.; also in gunmetal for use with water containing
corroding agents. The larger sizes have been driven with great success by tractors
in various parts of the State.
We manufacture “Billabong” Windmills, Pumps and Troughing,
and supply Water Pipes and Fittings at lowest rates. Write now
324-330 PITT ST.. SYDNEY
391- 403 BOURKE ST, MELBOURNE.
The "Maxim” is a new Lamp.
It supersedes all others because
it gives an intense, steady light
through a mantle by burning
KEROSENE. No more fear of petrol
explosions. The “Maxim” is absolutely
safe under any condition, even if tipped over.
Only a little KEROSENE is needed to produce
the gas, so that the "Maxim” is extremely eco-
nomical to use. The container holds 1 f pints, and
this will last for 1 8 hours. Positively rain- and storm-
proof. Cannot smoke. Strongly made of nickelled steel.
Supplied ready for use, with mantle, accessories and
full directions. Price 35/-
An enamelled shade can be supplied, so that lamp can be
used as a table lamp, for 2/6 extra. Extra mantles 1/-
each. Lamp weighs 4^lb.
McPherson’s
PTY., LTD.
MELBOURNE
582 Collins
Street.
SYDNEY:
51 Bathurst
Street.
ADELAIDE:
116 Waymoutli
Street.
/ II
:
golf
Not
even
with its violent movements of the
arms can alter the unfailing accuracy
of an Omega watch.
Because of its precision and sturdi-
ness you will find an Omega on the
wrist or in the pocket of the world’s
most famous sportsmen.
Omega
EXACT TIME
LIFE
Children’s Hospital No. Z ART UNION
(ROYAL ALEXANDRA),
DRAWN ON DECEMBER 20, 1930.
Tickets 1/2
POST FREE.
Books of 12
can be had on
application.
Send at once.
Buy NOW!
Ily permission of the Honorable the
A i torney-General.
Lighten the
dark times of
the little kiddies
who are in
hospital. They
depend on your
sympathy.
FIRST PRIZE: Wonderful Necklace of Diamonds valued at £5OO.
SECOND PRIZE: Morris Minor Saloon Motor Car (1930 model), £246 10s.
THIRD PRIZE: Beautiful Trousseau valued at £lOO.
TOTAL VALUE OF PRIZES OVER £lOOO.
Apply to Hon. Sec., Box 4200 XX, G.P.0., Sydney.


OUT OF BED THE RIGHT SIDE
—WITH ENO!
I
/
ev
Eno does one simple
thing* But because that
very thing lies right at
the root of healthy living,
it’s everything. Ask yourself
now if your system is as
dutiful day by day as it
should be* And if the an-
swer is NO then your
energy and your whole
mental outlook are far from
being what they might be.
Taken first thing every
morning—just a dash
in a glass of water —
Eno’s “Fruit Salt” retains
enough fluid in the food
canal to ensure punctual
and complete dismissal ot
poisonous waste* And
though it acts so surely and
beneficently? Eno does
nothing that nature herself
would not approve* Take
a bottle home and begin
tomorrow this golden rule
of healthy living*
ENOS
FHIIDI SAIT
c Sbe words Sno and ”&ru!t Said*
are registered trade marks.
Sales dPlgents:
Rohe < Sf. fflitchie
& Co. Sdtd., Sydney, SN'.S. c lsD
' <fv
MIS
JRvN-
KSiaiBBiM
I
N\ N
r
CUTS AND
BRUISES
OHE relief from
pain is immedi-
ate when you
apply Zam-Buk. It
penetrates the tissues,
destroys all harmful
germs, drives out poison
and soothes while it
heals.
7am-Buk
,s{ HAIR
NEEO
HERE'S
■iifhu - •
ţ
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
Sicilians cmexican)
UkUtud SioJAt
♦removes the grey *
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (4/6), 6d. being postage.
■
Discriminating Women
The World Over
Use
Cutieura
Soap
and
Cutfcura
Talcum
Daily
Why Not Try Them!
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2b.
Talcum Is. 3d. Sample each free
Address: R. Towns & Co.
Sydney, N. S.W.
uticutj
Is
Wifi
MiOO
AEmCINAI
AND
COIjLO*
t&a
IT!
THE BOY
AND
HIS PONY
WILL NOT BE
FORGOTTEN
AT
CHRISTMAS.
BOYS’ SADDLES, good wearing, at £4/10/-
and £5/10/-, with stirrups, leathers and
girth.
No. 82D QUEENSLAND PARK BOY’S
SADDLE, a tip-top present, built on most
comfortable lines, £6/17/6 complete.
PONY BRIDLES.—SingIe rein, 13/9;
double rein, 17/6.
CHILD’S RIDING PAD, lined with felt, with
holding strap on head and fitted with girth,
surcingle, leathers and stirrups, 52/6. Safety
clogs, 12/6 extra.
KERSEY SADDLE CLOTHS, 21in., 10/6 each.
BOYS’ RIDING WHIPS.—4-plait, 5/6;
6-plait, 6/6.
Write for our Saddlery Catalogue, and
also for our popular Xmas Toy and
Model Catalogue.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.
395 George Street, Sydney.


Four fittings to choose
in every size
This Abbey Shoe of black velour calf
will give made-to-measure comfort
. . . .the foot can be fitted so exactly.
Both full and half sizes are made in
narrow, medium, wide and extra-
wide. No need for tightness any-
where. The sides are low-cut to set
in snugly at ankle. . . .the upper is
shaped to avoid strain over the instep
arch. A shoe like this requires no
“breaking-in.” It is flexibly soled with
the toughest leather obtainable.
ORDER BY POST.
Specify width as well as length, and
order, also, the correct Abbey Pre-
servative Polish (6d. per tin), or a
handy cleaning outfit (2/6).
Black Velour Calf, 42/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street, and 224 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“All BEY BOOTS,’’ SYDNEY.
FPL 203
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAVEL SERVICE
"DOOK through to Europe via
-*-* C.P.R. for travel comforts—
new thrills and
pleasures un-
excelled service at
all C.P.R. Hotels,
and on trains and
Atlantic Steam-
ers. You’ll see
!
the wonders of Canada’s
Rockies, quaint old Quebec,
Mighty Niagara and the Great
Lakes. The finest, fastest and
joyous route to Europe. Write
ť
for illustrated litera-
ature.
Canadian Pacific,
247 George Street,
Sydney.
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
"7 hr Worlds Greatest- 'll ravel 'S</stsm
BINDER TWINE
“RENOWN” BRAND
Smooth, even twine, good yardage.
Will give every satisfaction in the
held.
MANUFACTURED AT MASCOT BY
J. SCOTT, LTD.,
Rope and Cordage Manufacturers,
Head Office Stores,
163 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: 82861. Box 251 DD.
SAMPLES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
Piling up every little surplus so profitably and
wisely that full financial independence comes at
a very maximum of speed— that is what our NEW
Investment plan means to you
WRITE FOR A PAMPHLET
Have a Bank Account —Keep it Qroiving
The Primary Producers Bank of Australia Ltd.
Head Office: 12 MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at Londoj
■r
6ft. wide x Bft. drop
17/6
9ft. wide x Bft. drop
25/6
12ft. wide x Bft. drop
32/6
VERANDAH BLINDS
This Special Line of standard size Blinds, made of English White or Green
or Brown blocked Striped Duck, complete with fittings—top batten, heavy
bottom roller, single and double pulley straps, cord and staples.
Note.—We cannot supply this line in other than those quoted above.
Prices for other sizes and materials on application.
HUHffi
OAe BIGGEST HAKDWAm~HOUSE ; IN VICTORIA
(D. & W. CHANDLER, LTD.),
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY, VICTORIA.
FARM COSTS AND PRODUCE PRICES,
“Avon”: The reason why the average
farmer, most of the time, reckons he isn’t
getting a fair deal in comparison with the
rest of the community has been made clear
in Maoriland by the investigators of the
Statistics Offiee. Basing its conclusions on
the replies to a questionnaire addressed to
several hundred farmers, the Office calcu-
lates that 33.3 per cent, of the average
farmer’s expenditure is rent or mortgage
interest, 25 per cent, goes for labor, 8.1 per
cent, for rates and taxes, 1 per cent, for
electric power (now available on most M.L.
farms), 0.6 per cent, for insurance, and the
remainder, 32 per cent., for seeds, machinery,
manures and other commodities.
Taking the 1914 level of farm expenditure
and export prices as a base, each item being
represented in that year by an index figure
of 1090, it is shown that in the years 1915
to 1919, and in 1924 and 1925 (the boom
years for exported farm produce) there was
an aggregate advantage to the farmer—balance
of export price level over farm expenditure—
of 1028 points but in the remaining years,
down to and including 1929, there was a
balance on the other side of the ledger aggre-
gating 1385. Since wheat is on a stabilised
price level domestically the wheat-growing
farmer has probably fared a little better than
those figures indicate, but taking it all round
it seems proved that, farm costs have m-
creased out of proportion to the price of farm
products.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Is there any reliable evidence as to the
suitability or otherwise of Tagerim lucerne
as a fodder plant in N.S.W.? —2O.
, Mr. N. «T. N. Whittet, agrostologist in the
N.S.W. Agriculture Dept., after tests, says
it has not yet proved in any way superior to
Tamworth and Hunter River. There is room,
liowever, for further experiment. Farmers
are advised that if they purchase roots of
this variety they should obtain lucerne roots
of equal size from their own paddocks and
plant the two varieties in adjacent rows
with identical*spacing, watering, etc.
/in .. , , - ...
(1) A nines and addresses of firms other
than seed merchants who purchase paspalum
seed? (2) Is it used for other than agri-
cultural purposes? (Z) What is the reason
q marked fall tn price since 1923.
J n • i. , . . ,
/ le , ew seasois 0 /
merchants have been handling the seed.
( r ) No. (3) 10-3 was an abnormal year.
►mice then there lias been little price fluctua-
tion, prices being about the 1.)2_ lei el.
Sometimes sheep just off the shears get
wet, temperature suddenly falls and there is
a percentage of deaths. What is the cause
of these deaths? —9B43.
Very likely exposure on empty stomachs,
Suppose the sheep have been mustered close
together under shelter without food or water
for 20 to 40 hours and then shorn and
turned out. This treatment is severe and
trying. Should a sudden change to low tem-
perature and rain come on soon after they
are turned out they are likely to stand still
to weather it. Circulation of blood is stimu-
lated by food and exercise. For these reasons,
if the stomachs of the sheep are empty when
shorn they should not be exposed to rain
or severe cold, which will prevent them from
moving about for food.
I have a four-year-old horse who appears
to be going blind. He has been blind in one
eye for about 18 months. A scum is forming
over the eyes. Any chance of a cure?—
QQQQ ■ -
Not much- but try bathing the eyes
with a solution of boracic acid (one
teaspoonful dissolved in a pint of warm
water); then instil into the eyes several
drops of a solution, of sulphate G f
zinc one part, water 40 parts, by means of
an eyedropper or piece of doth saturated
in the lotion. This treatment should be
given at least twice- daily. Following
the eyedrops powdered calomel should be
Km-rrT %jL
n j 0 * y ‘ . ’ • . ,
My draught-horse is suffering from a run-
ning dischargefrom the nostrils, loss of.
appetite and signs of a breaking out under
the jaw. Is it infectious, what are the aftei
effects, and what treatment and precautions
are advisable? 9608. . .
The ailment is strangles, which is very
contagious. Isolation of the affected horse
for 21 days and disinfection of all clothing
and burial of all droppings are essential. Keep
the horse in a well-ventilated stall free from
draughts, and feed him on.green food. Keep
ample water beside him in a bucket and
place loz. Epsom salts and ldr. nitrate oi
potash in his drinking water He wi
drink about eight gallons a day. Clip, on all
the hair between the mandibles of the lower
jaw and right up to the ears on each side
three inches wide, and paint the part where
the hair has been clipped off with liquor
iodi fort (1-9) once daily for two days.
Put about a gallon of boiling water in
a bucket and add a teaspoonful ot euca-
lyptus oil; place this in the manger, and
assist the horse to move his head backwards
and forwards over this mixture so that he
may inhale a certain amount of this medicated
steam with fresh air. He should not be
forced, but assisted, to inhale the mixture.
Neglect of treatment may cause absorption
of pus from the strangles abscesses and
death from septic pneumonia. The abscesses
usuallv rupture and the pus drains away,
but this may be assisted by lancing them
with a clean sharp knife and fomenting them
with hot water to which a teaspoon of salt
(or washing-soda) to a pint has been added.
(1) Is there a demand in Sydney and
N.S.W. for good bananas? (2) What has
been the average price paid per case of
24-30 doz. for the past 12 months in, Sydney?
(3) In what months are prices high? _ (4)
Is banana-growing profitable on suitable
land? (5) Gross return per acre? (6)
Do Tweed Rivei' (N.S.W.) growers supply
the Sydney market, and do they find it pay-
able? (7) Price of suitable land in Tweed
district and, N. Queensland? (8) Rate of
wages naid in industry, and hours worked per
week? —9762.
(1) Yes. (2) For high-grade fruit, about
225. 6d. per ease. (3) Usually from May
unti l mid-December. (4) Yes. (5) 120 to
130 cases. Up to 320 are recorded. (6)
Yes. (7) Tweed district, up to £l5O per
acre; N.Q., about £6 per acre. (8) Wages
vary according to districts and local con-
ditions. Average working hours, nine per
day. One industrious man is capable- of
maintaining five acres in a good state of cul-
tivation and attending to the gathering and
Packing of the crop.
Hotv can I render soapy water fit for use
on the vegetable garden? —96os.
The chief chemist N.S.W. Agriculture
Department says that water in which soap
is present only to the extent used in washing
hands, face and body can be used without
treatment. Soapy water which also contains
grease or fat from washing dishes, cooking-
utensils, etc., should be run through a
grease trap.
Hoio to get rid of small red ants which
over-run the house and, get into the food? —
9534.
The entomologist of the N.S.W. Agricul-
ture Department suggests a bait consisting
of sodium fluoride one-tenth «f an oz.; sugar,
lib.; honey, 30z.; water, 1 pint. All the
ingredients should be brought to the boil and
thoroughly stirred.
Last year a growth appeared on the outer
surface of my passion-fruit; at first soft and
0 f a u {/ ht green color, later darker, until at
ripening it teas of a tough, leathery texture,
hard and almost white. What’s the disease
and what's the remedy?-— 9827.
ft is called woodiness, and the direct cause
j s unknown. The disease is mostly found
on delicate unpruned fruit, and the best safe-
guard against it is thorough cultivation, judi-
cious manuring and proper pruning.
My White Leghorn rooster is continually
sneezing, and lias symptoms of gapes and,
bronchitis . What ails him, and what’s the
cure? —9B33.
Sneezing would be caused by an accumula-
tion of catarrhal products in the windpipe
or nostrils. The bird would gasp m an
endeavor to force the air to pass the obstruc-
tion.' Turpentine treatment, would be satis-
factory for this tumble. The bird should
he examined for canker, a yellow cheesy
substance growing on the larynx or inside
the windpipe. If present it should be re-
removed with a blunt instrument and affected
parts painted with a mixture of iodine one
part and glycerine 10 parts. If there is a
mucous discharge from the nostrils, syringe
ith le so i ut ion of permanganate of
t , lsb
M y'Wyandotte rooster, 12 months old,
appears to be weak in the legs. While standing
his thighs bend outwards as though his
body were too heavy for his legs. He has
j )een reared on the intensive system and fed,
Qn wheat, lucerne and kitchen scraps. What’s
wrong with him and the cure? —9B3l.
The p oU jt ry expert of the N.S.W. Agricul-
ture Department says the trouble is probably
due to keeping the bird too long under
intensive conditions. The cockerel should be
allowed free range for some time, and more
phosphates should be fed by mixing the morn-
irig mash with skim-milk and adding 5 per
cent, bone-meal to the ration until recovery.
HINTS FOR THE FARM,
“Wrash”: When the axle of the waggon-
ette has broken, and you are far from home,
cu t from the bush a lengthy sapling and use
it as a bearer and skid. With rope or chains
fasten its big end to the front corner of the
vehicle floor, and back under the broken
axle-bed. Det its thin end drag on the
ground well behind. Then throw up the
wheel that is out of action and proceed on
your way. will be slow but safe.
. ,^ a f*, or , ' cn i< l^ s advice to plough
m healthy stubble and so provide the neces-
fury, humus where sheep are scarce (B.
29/10/ 30) is no doubt sound; but there is
one point to be remembered. The microbes
active m the decomposition of straw are
themselves consumers of nitrogen and if
too much long; straw is ploughed under there
will be a certain amount of soil exhaustion
w, | l require to be balanced,
f Panurge : Irrigators will find _ a two-
foot square of heayy-gauge galvamsed-iron
with, a bucket-handle riveted on a useful
gadget._ Used to check the watei when
filling in a gap, it saves much time, earth
and energy. The handle makes it easy to
carryj either on horseback or afoot.
“U. Murray” : In the Ballan district (Vic.)
f armers w i lo h av e experimented with kale
and ra p C , especially kale, have had note-
worfjly results. On country that maintained
only a sheep to the acre in store condition
they have found it practicable to fatten con-
tinuously 15 sheep to the acre, bv breaking
up p as t ur es and laying them down with those
pj an t s> Of course the land is manured as
well as cu]t i V ated ; but only to about the
game degree as is found profitable for grow-
j rai n. Even with fat stock at present
p r j ces tliis should offer a chance of profit
on any country suitable for the growth of
these plants—say, within the area of 20-incii
ra |uf a ll
‘“Bushman”: Make the grunters do as
much of your c i ear i n g as possible. A coil
of p ig _ n etting a ufl som e steel fencing posts
wi]] soou enc i ose a dirty area, and a port-
able houge and trough will finish the equip-
ment> Blackthorn, bracken, onion or nut
g rasg) or that patch of paspalum that
threatens your cultivation, will soon get torn
up by their snouts . They will worry black-
berry, too, provided the top growths are
cut o |f_
“J.G.” : “Bar K.” (B. 29/10/’3O) does
not mention how many shoots of sweet-potato
v ; nes to place in the ground. On the Burnett
(Q.) it was usual to place at least three
s hoots on the vine underground; unless you
d j d that returns were a failure. When plant-
j n g j n Bills always place old grass and rub-
bjsh j n the furrow, as it prevents evaporation,
g wept potatoes require a moist soil.
“Specker”: At this time of the year fowls
are apt to become crop-bound through eating
too much dry grass. Cut a small opening
through the skin and remove the contents
with a buttonhook or pmee of bent wire;
sew up the incision with silk.
“M.W.8.”: When erecting a netting fence
with a bottom wire along the ground, instead
of having the wire, the same side of the
netting try placing it on the opposite side,
stapling it close to the surface. Now between
the posts fasten both together with tie-
wire in\ two equal places. Even if the
staples are pulled away, the netting still
remains locked along the posts.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
\\ anted to Sell”' or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Married couple, Vic. ; wife trained nurse, house-
keeping exp.; husband engineer and all-round man,
travelled; want position anywhere.— 996l.
Young married couple, Vic. ; husband butler, valet,
waiter or caretaker; wife good nurse; want position,
husband alone, or together. Exp. in v.-r. service.
—9962.
Shoemaker (N. Q’land), able to measure and fit
up, exp. pegged, sewn or riveted work, knee or
bench, any class repairs, wants responsible position.
—9913.
Tutor (Sydney), Uni., graduate, long exp. in
primary and secondary teaching, wants position, town
or country. Refs.—994B.
Young man (36), N.S.W., wants job on orchard,
farm or station, anywhere. Refs. —9946.
Young lady, N.S.W., wants sewing engagement or
position on station as companion for two or three
months from January. Used to horses and can
drive car.—999o.
Manager, with Australian and M.L. exp. sheep,
cattle and mixed farming, wants position. Refs.
—lB.
Sawmiller, 25 years’ exp. mill management, in-
cluding office control, M.L. and Australia, used to
opening up new country, wants position anywhere.
Can provide competent crew.—l 7.
To buy small ball-crusher, capacity three or four
tons daily.—997l'.
To buy.manuscripts or autographed letters of any
Australian writers, particularly Lawson.—l 6.
To buy (N.S.W.) binocular dissecting microscope,
XlO, x2O, x3O. Send full particulars.—99s4.
To buy picture of Jesus smiling, also 23rd Psalm,
for framing.—99l4.
To buy reproductions of Australian cartoons by
Low, “Hop,” Phil May or Norman Lindsay, separately
or in volumes. —9953.
Young man, invalid, wants copies of “Winter Pie”
and “Printer’s Pie” and other reading matter. (To
John O’fehay, Burnie, Tas.)
Information Supplied.
Who were the Canadian exiles who were
transported to Tasmania in the early part
of last century? What was their offence,
and what became of them eventually? —97so.
A number of political prisoners who liad
been implicated in a rebellion intended to
transfer the colony to the United States
were transported to Tasmania in 1839. Three
died almost immediately on arrival, and the
others were assigned to station-owners in-
land. In February, 1840, 88 more of these
Canadians reached Australia, 30 being landed
at Hobart and the rest taken to Sydney.
There is no record of their later history.
They seem to have been absorbed into the
general population.
(1) What Commonwealth Government
line of steamers was sold by public tender
about three years ago? (2) To whom?
(3) Price? (4) Under what conditions? —
9757.
(1) The Bay line of one-class passenger
steamers and freighters. (2) White Star
line. (3) £1,900,000. (4) Chiefly that a
service equal to that of the Commonwealth
Shipping Board and an efficient Australian
organisation be maintained.
I have a 30 -volt Delco-lighting plant, and
wish to step-up this voltage to 90 for use
with a wireless set. What type of trans-
former would be required? —9Bl2.
The Delco plant supplies direct current
which cannot be stepped-up to a higher
value with a transformer as can alternating
current. A bank of five 20-volt accumulators
could be purchased for about £5 arid charged
off the lighting plant 1 while it was supply-
ing lighting current. This would be the best
plan.
How to prepare and use an oil stain for
use on three-ply sheets to bring out the
grain ? —9634.
A very good stain can be made by reduc-
ing black japan with turpentine. Apply
with a brush and wipe off with a cloth.
Finish off with two coats of hard oak var-
nish for a gloss finish, and one coat hard
oak and one coat eggshell flat varnish for
a flat finish.
(1) How many live cattle, horses and
sheep (stud and ordinary) did Aus-
tralia export last year, and what was
the value? (2) Chief buyers of each,
stud and ordinary? (3) Do we import
many live cattle, horses and sheep, and where
from? (4) F,or ichat purpose?— 97sB.
(1) For year ending June 30, 1929 (latest
figures available) . exports were : Cattle (ordi-
nary), 8423, valued at £36,984; (stud), 125,
£1892. Horses (stud), 320, £14,311; (ordi-
nary), 5375, £159,971. Sheep (ordinary),
29.529, £27.330; (for breeding), 3780,
£33,914. (2) Cattle (ordinary), Philippine
Islands, Netherlands Fast Indies and Brit-
ish Malaya; (stud). India, New Guinea
and Philippines. Horses (stud), India,
M.L. and Japan; (ordinary) India, M.L.
and IJ.K. Sheep (ordinary), British,
Malaya, Fiji and Papua; (for breeding)
S. Africa, Russia and Japan. (3) Imports:
Cattle, 96, valued at £17,761, chief! v fr un
Canada and U.K. Horses, 339, £95P25,
chiefly from M.L. and U.K. Sheep, 3764,
£17,979, almost all from M.L. (4) Mainly
for breeding purposes.
(1) Is there a market for dried and salted
fish in Singapore? (2) Any books on driers
and how to build them? —9650.
(1) Impossible to say unless details of
kind of fish, quantity proposed to be ex-
ported, etc., are supplied. Furnish these to
Commonwealth Department of Markets, 527
Oollins-street, Melbourne, who will communi-
cate with Singapore authorities. (2) Write
Chief Inspector, Fisheries and Game, Perth,
giving full particulars.'
How many etchings may he printed off
an etched plate, and ivhat denotes an original
etching? —9634.
Depends on how the plate is bitten. If
a large number of prints are desired the
plate is usually steel-faced, and from this
thousands of proofs may be printed. Etch-
ings are issued in numbered editions, usually
of from 30 to 100. The artist declares tile
number of the edition to be printed from
any plate and keeps a register of proofs
sold, and when the declared number is sold
the plate is destroyed. An original is dis-
tinguished by the artist’s signature on the
margin of the proof on the right-hand side
and the edition number on the left.
Were regulations concerning marriage by
proxy issued in the A.1.F., and what were
the provisions? —972l.
A bill was introduced into Parliament to
provide for marriage by proxy, but it lapsed.
I have a grass tennis court which is regu-
larly top-dressed ivith black Bulli soil. I
have noticed that the grass where the coui t
is marked grows far better than the rest,
though all parts get equal and sufficient
watering. _ Does this mean that the court
needs sprinkling occasionally ivith lime? —
9765.
Yes. Give the court a dressing of from lewt.
to 2cwt. of hydrate of lime every two years,
or, better still, an equal quantity of sulphate
of ammonia. The lumps should be rubbed
out and the sulphate scattered thinly over
the lawn and watered in. It will turn the
court brown for a few days, but this will
be succeeded by a luxuriant green growth.
The leaves of my rose b'ush are covered
with a white frosty substance, and they are
falling off in great numbers. The stems are
also beginning to decay. What's wrong,
and what's the remedy? —972o.
The trouble is mildew, and the best cure
is to spray with Bordeaux powder or lime
and sulphur solution. It would be helpful
to' give each bush a bucket of well-rotted
stable or cow manure, and also a good supply
of wood ashes or a handful of sulphate of
potash.
I have a wistaria about 14 years old which
has never flowered, although it bears leaves
profusely. Why is this, and ' what can be
done to induce flowering?- —9719.
Probably your plant is in the-wrong posi-
tion. It should be planted in a southerly
aspect shaded from the hot winds and sun
as much as possible, and should not be cut
back.
What are the distinguishing points of the
curlew, and why is the stone-plover some-
times called a curlew? —9732.
The curlew is the stone-plover ( Burhinus
magmrostris) and is found throughout Aus-
tralia in open-forest country,. Belonging to
the “wader” _ group of Australian birds, it
is large, 20fin. high, standing on long legs,
unwebbed, and is mottled brown and white
with large black eyes. Building no nest,
the female lays two eggs on bare ground.
It derives its common name, as does the
English curlew, to which it is in no way
related, from its melancholy cry.
How can I prevent ordinary house-flies
biting my dog's ears? —9s29.
Use a mixture of ldr. iodoform, 2oz. oil of
eucalyptus and lOoz. olive oil, and with
this smear once daily the parts usually
attacked.
How to cure -indigestion in dogs? —9746.
xis soon as a dog shows signs of indiges-
tion he should receive a dose of castor or
olive oil, and should be practically starved
for a day or two. If there is excessive vomit-
ing give a - sgr. tabloid of bismuth, pepsin
and charcoal twice or three times daily.
Only milk, beef-tea or mince should be first
used as food, and later the ordinary diet may
be given—meat, vegetables, gravy and milk.
Overfeeding or irregular feeding is the cause
of most cases.
(1) Quantity of galvanised iron manu-
factured in Australia for year ending June
30, 1930, and bounty paid by Federal Gov-
ernment? (2) Average selling price per ton?
( 3) Humber of workers engaged? (4)
Total (or average) wages paid to workers?
y4:99
In 1929-30, 24,118 tons of galvanised
sheets were produced, on which £89,561 was
paid by the Federal Government as bounty.
(2) Average wholesale price of corrugated
gn., 26in. gauge, in . Melbourne, 1929-30,
£24 4s. 2d. per ton. (3) The number of
persons engaged in the galvanised ironwork-
ing and tinsmithing industry during 1928-29
was 6907. (4) Wages paid during that
period amounted to £1,281,317, : or £194
per employee.
If it were possible to manufacture gold
from base metals at a cost of, say, 2s. per lb.
and' the secret were an Australian monopoly,
'a? hat would be the effect on Australia's
financial position and on the world in
genera l ? —9861.
If the secret could be kept from the out-
side world (which would be well-nigh impos-
sible) Australia could pay its national and
other debts in gold and become a creditor
nation. The swift increase in the gold
supply would raise prices throughout the
world. Eventually, if the secret leaked out
or the production of gold continued to be
much more than normal, it is probable that
gold would be rejected as a basis of inter-
national exchange and replaced by some
other commodity or group of commodities.
Have the sources of the Brahmaputra been
explored? Is it the longest river in the
world? Is the Mississippi or the Yang-tsc-
Kiang longer?— 9B64.
The main sources have been explored. The
world’s longest > river system is that of the
Mississippi and Missouri combined, 4221
miles. The Amazon, 4000 miles, is the
longest single river, exceeding the Yang-tse
b.y about 500 miles. The Brahmaputra is
26th in the list of the world’s longest rivers.
What treatment should he given to ferns
and pot plants in New Caledonia to keep
them vigorous and always green? —96oo.
Grow the ferns or other nlanfs of like
nature in pots half filled with material for
drainage in a porous compost—two parts of
well-decayed leaves, one part d'ecoiAposed
cow manure, one part sharp sand, and, a
sprinkling of broken-up charcoal with the
dust sifted out to keep the - compost from
becoming sour and to help the porosity and
drainage. They should be grown in partial
shade and never allowed .to become dry.
This applies to plants grown in hanging
baskets or in the ground.
(1 ) . Does England really care what hap.
pens to 'Australia as long 'as she gets the
interest on her money? ,(2) If'there was
a revolution here and Communists got con-
trol', would or could England step in and
talce control? (3) Has England any poli-
tical power over the Commonwealth?. (4).
If England went.bankrupt what effect would'
it have on Australia? —9942.
(1) ; England probably cares for Australia
in much the same way as Australia cares for
England. Some millions are indifferent,
other.millions aren’t. (2) Yes, and so could
any other. Power if it wanted to and was
strong enough. (3) Very little. A few
matters embodied in bills have still to be
referred to'England for assent. (4) Don’t
know. But presumably it would be for some
years a. poor customer for our products, and.
a still worse country to appeal to for loans.
(1) Are there ’ prospects of decent remu-
neration in the. future-for my girl {now 15
and .at a public' school) should she study'
domestic science, dietetics, etc'.? (2) What
might she aspire to- {position, and, remunera-
tion) should she prove apt? (3) Best method
cf -procedure?—- 9360. ■
(l)Yes,’if she proved an apt pupil., (2),
A. position as teacher of home economics
under the NISAV. .Education Department.
The commencing,, salary for those obtaining
the highest classification and who are, 21
years of age is-approximately £175-p.a. By
service and examination the salary advances
in six years to £275 p.a. (3) The girl should
take the three-years’ course of full-time day
instruction in home economies at the East
Sydney Tech.; "fees, £3 3s. p.a. About two
thirds £of the students so far have .been
selected by the department for further train-
ing as teachers.
(1) How is snuff made? (2) Any regu-
lations covering manufacture in Australia?
(3) Any excise duty? (4) Quantity and
value of snuff imported. (5) Average retail
price ? —9494.
(1) It is the most complex, tedious and
difficult branch of tobacco manufacture. The
tobacco best suited for snuff-making is thick
fleshy leaf of a dark color, but scraps and
waste pieces resulting from the preparation
of smoking mixtures and cigars, and the
midribs of leaves also, are largely used. The
peculiar properties of snuff are dependent
on the presence of free nicotine, free am-
monia and aromatic principles developed
during fermentation.- (2)-A tobacco manu-
facturer’s license, which costs £5 p.a., has
to be • procured. Licensee has to furnish a
bond of.£2oo.before license is granted. (3)
Excise-duty, 4s.- per pound.- (4): In 3928-
29 34391 b., valued at‘£l2BB. (5) Is. 9d.
per ounce. •
(1) What sises: of sandalwood may be
marketed? (2) > Price? - (3) Are the roots
of commercial value? (4) How to get a
license? —9523. -- -
(l). a'nd (3)'Billets may be of any length,
from bole’or jb,ranch, down to 3iri.
diameter. Only; heai;twood is marketable.
Butts and roots of>a diameter of not less
than 3in. may be included. (2) At .port,
including royalty, about £l6 per ton. (4)
Information may be had on application to the
Northern Australia Commission; Darwin, but
the issue of licenses has been deferred until
after June. " -
(1) Qualifications to: enter R.A.A .F'. as
a fitter or rigger? {2) Can a boy enter the
R.A.A.F. aircraft branch as an apprentice?
(3) Any vacancies at present? (4) Pay for
fitter or rigger? (s)‘ Chances of employment
with the aircraft branch■ at Cockatoo Dock-
'll ard, Sydney? (6) To whom should appli-
cation for work with the R.A.A.F. or Cocka-
too Dockyard be made? —9601.
(1) Such positions are obtained only by
highly-skilled tradesmen who can pass a stiff
medical and technical examination. (2) No.
(3) No. It is not likely that any enlist-
ments will be made for some considerable
time. (4) Commences at 12s. a day, plus
allowances. (5) No chance for any but
skilled" tradesmen. (6) The Secretary, Air
Board, Victoria Barracks, Melbourne, for
A.A.F. ; Commonwealth Shipping Board for
Cockatoo.
Is it permissible for an invalid pensioner
{Q.) to hold an industrial insurance policy
on his life? —9684.
Yes. The surrender value of the policy
(if any) would be taken into account hi
computing the rate of pension payable, but
it is not likely that it would be .sufficient
to affect the rate.
(1) What does it cost to be married in a
registry office in Vic.? (2) What are the
preliminary formalities? (3) If a couple
should decide in, say, a year’s time to be
married again in a church,'would that be in
order ? —9530.
(1) No fee. (2) Notice of intended mar-
riage, in writing and signed by both parties,
must be in the hands of the Registrar at
least three clear days prior to the day of
the ceremony. (3) It is a punishable orfence
to be again married, but a clergyman may
perform a religious ceremony provided he
issues no document.
Does Anybody Know?
Meaning of abo. word “Gootherdie” or
“Kooterday” ?—9674.
Information Supplied.
9215. —To cure a pup of . his chasing
habits, lead him abroad over rabbit country
on a long strong line. When he bolts off
let him gallop a distance, then whistle
sharply, and at once jerk him severely back-
wards. After a few such lessons he will
throw a back somersault in his eagerness
to obey the “come behind” signal.—“ Pick.”
Brief Answers.
F.G.: “There won’t be many there I don’t
think” is incorrect because it contains a double
negative and is ambiguous. . ..H.8.: Get in touch
with the-veterinary staff of. the Stock and Brands
Department, Adelaide... .A.M.C.: Echuca (“the
meeting of the waters”), Dundundra (“waterfall”),
Minnamurfa (“plenty of fish”), and Unanderra
(“junction of two creeks”) C.D. :,,The Russian
navy is ■an inconsiderable force. In the Baltic there
are. three' battleships, two bruisers,' MS destroyers,
eight submarines and a small number of gunboats,
mine-layers,' etc.—not all effective.' In the Black
SSa there • are ■ one cruiser, six mine-layers, six gun-
boats, .46 'submarines and a number of auxiliaries.
In the. Far .East there are 11 vessels, and small forces
are.'scattered on the Dnieper and in the Caspian. . . .
O. : Hans Heysen was born at Hamburg, Germany.
October 8, 187.7.... R.F.': Packet licenses are not
available on any vessel plying between places within
Sydney Harbor.. „.L,E.: The “Statesman’s Year
Book” and “Whitaker’s Almanack,” obtainable at
most public libraries, give full particulars... . A.M.D.:
Write Missing Friends Branch, Police Dept-., Sydney,
supplying full particulars, or advertisein “S. M.
Herald”.. . .11.M.D.: See J. B. Bishop’s “The
Panama Gateway” and “The Construction of the
Panama Canal,” by Sibert and' Stevens F.C.:
Oceanic Steamship Co., 12 Bridge-street, and Union
Steamship Co., < 247 George-street—-both Sydney... .
A. : Apparently you have been charged on the
basis, of a commission on the value of the pro-
perty. Refer the matter to the N.S.W. Lands Depart-
ment, giving full details... .S.C.: Write to the Under-
secretary to the Attorney-General.. . .M.C.8.: Recruit-
ing for the Royal Australian Navy has been sus-
pended for an indefinite period... .R.F.8.: F. W.
Timing, Hotel- Australia, Sydney... .W.E.8.: (1) We
do not know of any way by which you could
ascertain correct latitude and longitude in the bush.
One well '< versed' in astronomy could form a rough
approximation by noting the sun’s (or stars’) alti-
tude when on the meridian. (2) and (3) Standard
works' are Nome's “Navigation” and Gill’s “Text-
book: on' Navigation and Nautical Astronomy”....
P. : Renee Kelly in her 1925-26 visit to Australia
appeared in “Polly with a Past,” “Daddy Long-
legs,” “Brown Sugar,” “The Last of Mrs. Cheyney,”
“The Naughty Wife” and “The. Mask and the Face.”
. ...J.F.M.: It is Greek, a quotation from Euripides,
and means “There is no worse evil than a bad
woman; and nothing has ever been produced better
than a good one”... :'H.G.N.: Engineers employed on
interstate and- coastal, .vessels of Australia are paid:
Fourth engineer, £21.35. to £2B 14s. 6d. per month ;
third, £24 2s. 6d. to £33 7s. 6d. ; second, £26
17s. 6d. to £4l 15s. 6d. ; chief, £32 2s. 6d. to
£66 7s. 6d.. .. . J. 0.: Sutherland (N.S.W.) derives
its name from Forby Sutherland, a sailor aboard
Captain Cook’s. Endeavor, who died soon after the
first landing' at. Kurnell (which is in Sutherland
Shire) in 1770. Port Hacking was named by
Matthew Flinders, after a pilot named Henry Hacking,
who had been the first to report its existence....
B. : Distance by rail between Sydney and Brisbane
is 715 mile's; Melbourne, 591 miles; Adelaide, via
Melbourne, 1074 miles; and Perth, via Melbourne,
2761 miles. Journey from Sydney to Broken Hill,
via Melbourne and Adelaide, is more than 1400 miles,
but a line built across N.S.W. in November, 1927,
affords direct communication in 6984 miles. .. .L.W.:
From Registrar-General’s Department, Treasury
Buildings,. Brisbane 0.5. T.: There have been 90
members in the N.S.W. Leg. Assembly since 1904.
■From 189.3-to that time there were 125 members. .. .
W.W.: Obtainable from .Buzacott and Co., Ltd., 7
Market-street, Sydney ; 321 b. tins, iOd. per lb. ; 81b.
tins, Is., per lb. ....Q.W.: Canada has 804 members
.of Parliament to a,population:of 9,786,’800... .G.A.V.:
Q-boats were obsolete merchant-steamers carrying con-
cealed ■ guns' and ' large crews used during the World
.War ’by - the)British'as decoys for German submarines.
... .N.K.C.: For catching .sand whiting, use beach or
.lgnd,vvorms,-prawns, or. fish such as mackerel. When
.fishing- from a boat for them, anchor on a sand
.flat on a rising tide.' Cast the line well out, for
the fish are timid of the boat. It is usually best
to drift ’ over an extensive sand flat... . S.X.D.: The
. largest motor-ship afloat is the Augustus of the
Nav. Gen. Italiana line. Gross tonnage, 32,650;
length, 710 ft. ;. breadth,. 82’ft. ; depth, 47ft.; speed,
20 knots, i . .R.G.: Write N.S.W. Wool and Fur, Ltd.,
115 Pitt-street, Sydney... .S.M.Q.; Write Agriculture
Department, Sydney, for free pamphlet “Ophthalmia.”
~ .. ,C:B.N.: Never heard of the story and doubt its
truth. It: is an old Spanish surname... .W.C.: See
W. R. Rupp’s “Guide to the Orchids of N.S.W.’’
(Angus and Robertson, Sydney), 7s. 6d...’. .D.8.M.:
The legal owners of the 1 land should hand the certi-
ficate of title to you, and it then rests with you to
have the land transferred. You will 'obtain the
necessary forms from the department dealing with
land titles. Stamp duty depends on value fees are
according to schedule. Advise you to employ a
solicitor.... I.H. :> The song is called “The Dream
Rhapsody”; on sale at most music stores. .. .L.G.G.:
The Cunard liner Mauretania was built in 1907, is
30,696 tons gross, 762 ft. long, 88ft. wide and 57ft.
draught. Its speed is 254 ’ knots. ... P.M.: (1) The
.Loch Ard went ashore at Curdie’s Inlet, 27 miles
from Capo Otway (Vic.), on June 1, 1878. Out of
52 people aboard, only two were saved, a young
apprentice arid a girl passenger whom he rescued.
(2)'Can’t trace. Send further particulars. .. .K.G.:
(i) Write P. and O. Steamship Co., 247 George-
street, Sydney. (2) Two years T.H.K.: There is
no branch of the Royal Economic Society in Aus-
tralia ; headquarters are at 9 Adelphi-terrace, London,
W.C.2. There is an Economic Society of Australia
and M.L., of which A. Gray, c/o Mutual Life
and Citizens’ Assurance Co., 46 Martin-place, Sydney,
is N.S.W. secretary. .. .H.Q.: Scratch the horn tip
a little with a knife point, moisten it and rub with
a stick of caustic. Several applications may be
nepessary, and it should be done while the lambs
are very young. Apply to the Department of Agri-
culture, Brisbane, for leaflet on the subject... .R.C.:
The process, which is a complicated one, is described
in the “Australian Butchers’ Manual,” N.S.W. Book-
stall Co., Sydney, 6s. posted. .. .F.D.J.(I) Curtis
Brown, Ltd., 6 Henrietta-street, Covent Gardens,
London. (2) Only send cost of return postage. (3)
See article “Marketing the Novel” (it applies
equally to other books) in “Why Editors Regret,”
published by Gerald Dillon, Box 287GN, G.P.0..
Sydney, 2s. 6d H.P.: Write N.S.W. Bookstall
Co., Castlereagh-street, Sydney... .D.F.J.: Agencies
here merely distribute films. You will have to send
them to England. Try Gaumont, 6 Denman-street;
Britannia Films,. 27 Shaftesbury-avenue; Gains-
borough Pictures, Poole-street, Islington; New Era
Films, 26 D’Arbley-street—all London, W.l
J. 0.: Conduits for wjiring, switches, etc., are made
locally. Globes are not, but it is anticipated that
they will be in the near future.. . .W.A.R.: Write
Agriculture Department, Sydney, for free leaflet or;
w'oodborers C.M.G.: It was not a prize-winner,
but was one of last year’s highly-commended
L.C.: Write Mick Simmons and Co., George-street,
Haymarket, Sydney.. . .0.N.W.: You may reasonably
consult any medical specialist. .. .A.W.8.: Try
having a fruit lunch only; other meals as usual.
(Many others mailed.)


* ■ ' ■ :
w
r
■l ■ '
V
mm
mm
Tv r.;. :
mi ife£»
NOW
19
FOR FIVE
Made and Guaranteed by the Auto Strop Safety Razor
Company, Ltd., 197-207, City Road, London, England.
New shaped holes allow seventeen per
cent, extra weight giving ‘hollow ground’
rigidity for first time with two-edged
safety blade. Manufactured from one
long ribbon of steel; ground, honed,
finished in one single continuous opera-
tion —so that every blade MUST have
the same perfect edge, Probak blades
fit two-edged safety razors. Sold every-
where at fixed prices—l/9 the small
packet, 3/6 the large.
wonderful invention in
new two - edged safety
blade • made in
the ribbon there-
fore uniform in
quality»buy
PROBAK
BLADES
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181, CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
New Zealand Agents: VAN STAVEREN BROTHERS, LTD., Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch*
ft
lbo£
HI
p
£
£
V
The CAP
is a CUP
• 9
The Cap of countless uses
a sporty drinking cup, a three-
fold measure (ounce, ,r nob-
bler/ / and domestic. Keep it,
anyway, if only as a souvenir
of a good time.
(D c GxLLum's
Scots (LI his 1^
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
<^? RT aj & , 9 °- Lm * S Melbourne and Brisbane.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide. LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle.
McFARLANE BROS., Hobart.
- ■ GM.I.b.
Record Smashing Speed !
ML
2Z
1
Sea-Horses
capture world-wide lead
in main events
OEA-Horses won over 500 regattas last
year in all parts of the world. Of
42 American Outboard Records they
captured 28 —more than twice as many
as all other motors combined.
Power your racing boat with a Sea-
Horse. Slash across the starting line—
zoom down the course ’mid flying spray
—round the marks and home again—at
speed. Send coupon —to-day—for free
Sea-Horse folder.
4
Sea-Horses for all
Sea-Horse Models range
from the 27 lb. “Single”
to the 4-cylinder “32.”
Above—Sea-Horse “16.”
Power your boat with a
Sea-Horse to-day.
Australian Distributors:
QUEENSLAND:
Marine Engines (Q.) Ltd.,
43 Creek St., Brisbane.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
O’Donoghue Bros.,
6 School St., Balmain,
Sydney.
VICTORIA:
Acme Cycle & Motor Co.
Ply. Ltd.,
299 Latrobe St.. Melbourne.
TASMANIA:
Roberts & Co. Ltd.
Murray St., Hobart.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Motors Limited,
26 Flinders St., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Flower, Davies & Johnson
413 Murray St., Perth
Johnson Sea-Horses
OUTBOARD
MOTORS
Send for free folder
Fill in this coupon. Post
it —now —to your nearest
Sea-Horse Distributor.
Send me, without cost or obligation, a
copy of the new illustrated Sea-Horse
folder. NZ7.2.
Name
Address


t
WHEN MAKING YOUR WILE
REMEMBER THIS
MANY men believe that in making their will they are
bequeathing their whole property to their dependents.
In actual fact this is not so. Probate tax makes a
heavy inroad into many bequests. To overcome this difficulty,
the P. & C. Probate Assurance was evolved. It provides the
ideal solution, pays for probate tax, obviates forced sales and
provides adequate money for dependents during the long-assess-
ment period. Discuss the matter with their representatives or
write to:—
Qg PRODUCERS S'CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OJ AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: H. Fell.
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
Agency Co., Ltd.
%L
..New Zealand's
Daintiest Delicacy-
Tiny inch-long fish, unique
in flavour .. . found only
in New Zealand’s sparkling
streams, and then for but
three months of the year,
WHITEBAIT is a delicacy
beyond compare. Served
from the can, or fried in
batter, you are sure to
‘rave’ about WHITEBAIT
as do New Zealanders—
who send us these delicately
flavoured, .tiny fish straight
from their streams ... in
cans that bear the label
“St. George.”
4a vS
J7L Jr J
StGeorge
Irvine & Stevenson’s St. George Co. Ltd, Dunedin, N -.w Zealand,
5
SMOKE_OH!
Lang, of course, hopes to raise the wind
with an overdraft.
¥ A #
When Jack Gregory plays cricket there’s
bound to be a catch in it. .
* ¥
“Foulkes said he felt lonely, his parents being
in England; it was that made him drink.”— “Sun.”
Thinking of the old Foulkes at home, as
the song puts it.
* *
Political maxim: It isn’t necessary to fool
all the people all the time —only while an
election is on.
THE BILEMMA.
“That football is over’s my regret
Sighed Brown. “What can I do?
I’d take to cricket you can bet,
But that’s all overs too.”
ADVT. SEEN IN A NIGHTMARE,
“S. M. HERALD” JOINS THE MOVEMENT.
HUNTER-STREET ACHIEVES LINKS DE LUXE.
Australia’s premier daily has been in no
sense influenced by the “Sun’s” action in
assisting to COMBAT THE DEPRESSION
by transforming the editorial sanctum into
a MIDGET GOLF LINKS. Nor are we,
in sporting parlance, GOING; FOR THE
GONCE. No, no. Our sole' concern i« for
SHE CAN CONSUME ALL SHE
MAKES.
EVELINE (ecstatically) : “A woman can make
a vast deal of change in a man’s life!”
JAMES (thoughtfully) : “Fes, but what a
vast deal of change she may need.”
the only class in the community which re-
mains ON TH'E OUTER as regards the new
sport.
The Pitt-street Younger Set, the Elizabeth-
street Bright Young Things—these and
many other sections are TRYING OUT
THE MINNIES from 9 a.m. till midnight
on seven days a week. But what of the
boys and girls of THE OLD BRIGADE?
They have nowhere to DO THEIR STUFF,
without serious loss of dig. In response to
requests from the highest in the land the
“S. M. Herald” has therefore decided to
GIVE IT A GO.
At eight o’clock to-night a new de luxe
links in our palatial Hunter-street premises
will be formally opened by his Grace the
Archbishop of Sydney. To obviate profanity,
which has become all too common on certain
links that shall be nameless, our architects
have been warned that there must be NO
HAZARDS. Further precautionary stipu-
lations are (1) holes shall be DOUBLE the
ordinary size, (2) Bogey shall be 200 or over.
CADDIES and TEE-SIDE ARMCHAIRS
free.
Wheel-chairs NOT TO BE USED
between holes.
Satchel-swingers BARRED.
After the official opening, at which his
Excellency the Governor has consented to
Down THE FIRST PUTT, an Exhibition
Match will be played between the Chairman
of Directors of the E. A. and R. Co. (83)
and the President of the Megatherium Club
(87). Later there will be a TOURNA-
MENT, with valuable prizes, for the young-
sters of the under-seventy mob.
WATCH OUT FOR OUR CIIAMPION-
OF-CIIAMPIONS COMPETITION NEXT
WEEK.
And don’t forget our GALA OPENING
to-night, when Sydney’s elite will be urged
on to the good work by Miss McScreich,
Aussie’s favorite songstress, and the
Charmers of the BURWOOD PONY
BALLET.
10-2-4.
¥ *
“When Byron wrote his Irish Melodies he struck
a popular note.” — “News.”
Moore’s the pity!
* *
HOP IN FOR YOUR CUT.
Citizens of New South Wales! Awake!
Arise! ‘•■Jack'Lang is back. Don’t be left in
the rush. Let the
Bullswool Correspond-
ence School show
you how. Here are
some of our courses.
“Tin Hare Breeding
for Profit-” —Get into
this great national
industry while tin is
cheap.
“Punting a Way
to Fortune.” Tells
you how to rake in
£lOOO p.a. by using
nothing but your
Child Endowment
money as capital.
Make five times the
.basic wage by work-
ing 12 hours weekly
in the glorious sun-
shine of the pony
courses.
“Every Man his
Own Millennium.”' —
Shows you how to live
on credit without re-
ferences. Learn to
penetrate, the arcana
of Low . Finance in
your spare time. We
tell you how to obtain
anything from Ale to
Zithers without pay-
ing for it.
“How to he an
Alderman.” Run a
limousine, and pre-
pare to run a pub. We
will show you not
merely how to acquire
creditors, but how to live, and live well, on
them.
“Communism as a Career.” —Be a wrecker
and rise to power. Make a nuisance of your-
self, and become a Cabinet Minister. Start
a revolution, and be first into the Savings
Bank when the shooting starts.
“ Charity , the Open Sesame to the Social
Pages.” —How to run art unions, raffles, etc.
Some tips on beating the Attorney-General’s
department.
Don’t delay. Remember, work is a
mocker, and strong men get rheumatism
earning a living in the rain. Get under
cover!
Angus O’Coiien.
* *
“Joseph Pyles died in 1893 leaving £65,000.”
— “Sun.”
Was this the original Pyles of money?
¥ *
“Why, for instance, does an author ‘spin his
yarns’ ?”— “Sun.”
Answer: To make dresses for his wife, as
a rule.
“Premier Lang overboard from ferry.”— Ashfleld
“Aeroplane .”
ile probably wanted to sec if he could
floqt a loan.
LOYAL TO THE LAST.
“I suppose (hie) you think I’m a bally fool getting in this (hie)
state?”
“Oh, no, darling — but, then, you’d expect me to be prejudiced,
wouldn’t you, seeing I'm your wife?”
“There was a full attendance when Caucus met to
consider the Cabinet’s proposals.”
Yet the moderates say the militants were
not “all there.”
* ¥
ALL IN.
That he was in his cups was true.
* Bis footsteps strayed: his eyes were dimj
And as he staggered past I knew
His cups were equally in him.
“Reverend R. B. S. Hammond says he will go on
fighting for Prohibition until he wins or dies.”
In fact, he won’t dry up till N.S.W. dries
up.
MAKING OUR AIR ROADS SAFER.
The Society for the Control of Anglo-Aus-
tralian Aviation has taken charge of this im-
portant matter, and has issued the following-
rules and regulations:—
(1) As from the Ist prox. aviators on the
Croydon-Darwin route are forbidden to fly
more than six abreast
between Karachi anti
Allahabad.
(2) A one-way
traffic system has
been instituted, and
is now operating,
from the s.-e. side of
Mt. Hooch, west of
Akyab, onward to
Rangoon. Darwin-
Croydon fliers will
follow the hairpin-
bend route 90 miles
to the east. Fliers,
outwards and in-
wards alike, must
keep at a minimum
distance of 100
yards from one an-
other where one-
way traffic systems
are in operation, and
refrain from over-
taking.
(3) Women fliers
and male fliers under
15 or over 80 must
be given the courtesy
of the road in future
between Baluchistan
and Timor.
(4) On and after
the Ist prox. Croy-
don-Darwin fliers
must cable their
nicknames to the
Australian papers
from Batavia, or
earlier. Gross laxity
was alone to blame
for a recent scandal,
when the tabloid
papers of Sydney-
united in referring
to Flight-L i e u t.
Winks as “Winker.”
whereas the nick-
name he has borne
from early boyhood
!is “Stinker.” It is humiliating for a
distinguished record-breaker such as the
Flight-Lieutenant (the first completely bald
native of Peebles to fly from London to Syd-
ney upside down) to arrive in a strange city
and find that the local directors of public
thought are ignorant of his nickname.
(5) A hostel for oil and petrol agents has
been established by the Society at the Iler-
mannsburg Mission. All agents must await
world-fliers who are advertising their products
here. In the event of more than 100 fliers
landing at Fanny Bay in one afternoon
agents must ballot for the right to meet
them and broadcast their advts.
(6) Aleppo (Syria) and Lingeh (Persia)
have been removed from the official list of
“TWO SHECTIONS, PLEASHE!”
, landing-places, the natives not having paid the
Society’s dues. The new landing-places are
Beirut and Bandar Abbas, where the Society
has arranged for light meat teas to be pro-
vided at 5,000,000 hadouras (roughly 9d.)
apiece to world-fliers arriving in daily
batches of not less than 50 between 4 p.m.
and sundown.
D.B.J.
FAUX PAS.
He says to me “ ’Ow’s Gertie?”
The silly fool!
No wonder I teas shirty
An’ she was cool!
And now she calls me flirty.
I’ll smash ’is nose.
The blighter said “ ’Ow’s Gertie?”
An’ me with Rose!
P.
THE DEPRESSION DEEPENS.
I fancy O’Smith began it. I noticed him
one morning with his wife’s hair -in one hand
and a nulla nulla in the other, dragging the
offending lady across his law-n. “Divorces are
too costly,” he explained, “so I’ve gone back
to the more economical pre-
historic system.”
I ran into McSmith a few
mornings later. He was look-
ing rather pale. “Steak and
eggs are too costly these
times,” he said. “I’ve gone
back to goanna breakfasts.
A nice rasher of goanna and
a cup of ti-tree tea take
some beating, let me tell
you.”
After that I heard that
the Minister for Tolls and
Taxes had been butchered
at Parliament House. A
deputation had gone back to
stone axes.
The same afternoon I saw
a thin column of smoke ris-
ing from the nearest hill. I
strolled that way. On a bald
patch I found Mcßrown
applying a match to a pile
of gum leaves. “Tuppence a
lick is no good to me,” he
said. “I’m my own post
office now. I’m letting Bill
over at Manly know that
the wife will be going away
for the week-end. He brings-
the beer, of course!”
That evening I saw Mc-
Smith, O’Smith and others
coming home with exultant
faces. “You’ve missed it!”
yelled McSmith. “Go to town
straight away ! The girls!
Fi<r leaves ! Simply wonderful!”
It was only too true. The flappers had
also got the go-back idea.
O’JONES.
[Written in charcoal on a bark sheet.]


You can choose from many
different railway routes
across America from San
Francisco.
t
too*
as you go to
across America •
In tall sombrero
adorned with scarlet
and gilt, the vendor of
bird cages walks the
streets of Mexican
border towns.
■
r““ > a nf a
I I s
mmsm
mmmm.
«*<*
mb
m -
>
m
m
111
iii
s:x
111
m
mti
111
is
lii!
te-
rn
■
mm
( Photograph by Ewing Galloway.)
An unusual view of New York, showing the sky-
scraper of a life insurance company framed in the
trees of Madison Square.
The hull ring in Juarez, Mexico, just opposite El Paso, Texas, with the picador working
the bull into a frenzy. You can visit Juarez as you cross America to go to England,
HAT side of the street is
JL Mexico —this side is the
United States,” they tell you in
American cities along the inter-
national boundary.
Just step across the intervening
inches for a delightful foreign
trip! In the United States you do
not feel strange, but over the
border the speech becomes soft,
rippling Spanish. Streets flash
with gay sombreros and graceful
mantillas. The bullfight is the
public pastime.
A visit to Mexico (a privilege in-
cluded in your railway ticket) is
one of the many variations of a
trip to England across America.
There’s so much to see! The
spectacular scenery of the
National Parks Yellowstone,
Yosemite, Zion, Bryce, Grand
Canyon. The towering sky-
scrapers of American cities —San
Francisco, Los Angeles, Chicago,
New York.
From the time you leave Sydney
for San Francisco on a fast Mat-
son liner, the climate is pleasant
all the way. Fares are moderate,
and exceptional railway service
makes your trip easy and restful.
Without obligation from you, the
new American Railways Travel
and Information Service of the
Matson Line will gladly plan you
an itinerary. Ask for free illus-
trated literature, “To England
Across America.”
Write to Dept, M 29,
AMERICAN RAILWAYS
TRAVEL and
INFORMATION RIJREAU
12 Bridge Street, Sydney.


Stuart Crystal is made
by craftsmen who have
never done anything but
make beautiful glassware.
Their skill has been
handed down y from
father to son / for many
generations. Every gen-
uine piece bears the regis=
tered name " Stuai td
V
m
m
as
mmrnmm
i
-
■ ■
•. '
Mir
H
r»
«t
i mnmr.
W&r.
tSiliiiM
2s£
s»
■
Bi
«s
r ?
■
HBl
ns
wBEBm
i ■■ / : y-
-■
■ ' .
i
:
I
English Hand=made Crystal
Cbtainable wherever beautiful glass is sold
•WINCHCSTM
TRADE MARK
RAN QER SHELLS
C-S3&
&
«
U
A Great Shell
at Moderate
Price
Keeps the Cost of Shooting
Down and Retains All
the Satisfaction.
T7OR your all-round shoot*
*• ing in field and at trap,
use the new Winchester
Ranger weather - proofed
shell. A quality smokeless
powder shell that will cut
your shooting cost. High-
er brass base. Primed with
the new Winchester No.
4 primer." Sure fire. Uni-
form. Perfect pattern.
■> }//
\\
/ "S
;
f Wn IK
Mu Apr# a a«.'
Foi
Sale
by
Dealers
Every <>
where.
’WINCHESTER
7Y/A/fS/jrS7T-'Ji
RANGER
M
12c,
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN, CONN., U. S. A.
Always use Winchester Ammunition
Winchester Arms— they are made for each other
m
*•
mm:
■mm#
mmM
mmm
mirnm
Market Place, Pago Pago, Samoa. A Matson Line Port of Call
The Pacific Paradise
Where Stevenson Lived and Wrote
Robert Louis Stevenson —poet, philosopher, idealist —lived
and loved and wrote, inspired by the charm of the Pacific.
Catch the spirit and enthusiasm of Stevenson —let your next
trip be through its soul-warming waters. To America and
Europe, taking in those lovely Pacific Islands —Fiji, Samoa
and Hawaii. Days of unique experience; nights of happi-
ness are spent on the quickest and most pleasant route to
America. Scenic gems and unusual island sights that Steven-
son and a hundred others have immortalised in song and
story. See those happy island carefree and
untouched by life’s humdrum. See exotic flowers, beautiful
flowering plants and trees —scenery that is grand and
wonderful —on a journey that is one continuous thrill.
FARES: SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO, First-class from £73; Second-class
from £5O/10/-; SYDNEY to NEW YORK First-class from *95/14/-; Second-
class from £73/4/-. SYDNEY to LONDON from £97. ROUND THE
WORLD, First-class from £219.
S.S. SIERRA S.S. SONOMA S.S. VENTURA
SAILING EVERY THIRD SATURDAY_FROM [CIRCULAR.QUAY,SYDNEY
For SUVA, PAGO PAGO, HONOLULU and SAN FRANCISCO
Special Cheap Excursion Tickets issued to Honolulu all the year round.
* Oceanic StiamshipCoi
NATSON LINE
12 Bridge Street, Sydney
Local Mcllwraith, McEacharn Ltd.
Agents: Dalgety SC Company Ltd.
Dalgety 8C Company Ltd.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Fremantle,
Albany.
Brisbane, and all Queensland Porte.
Write for descriptive
pamphlets, fare lists,
sailing dates, etc.
Name
J-30
Address


MODEL FLYING AEROPLANES
No. 3 CONSTRUCTIONAL KIT to build this
Allbalsa Cabin Fuselage Flying Model, with
plan, full instructions and everything needed,
8/0. Post: N.S.W., 1/-; QTand, Vic., 1/6.
No. 1 KIT, to build “Wasp” 18in. stick
model, 4/-. Glue 9d. Post: 1/- all States.
No. 2 KIT, to build “Eagle” 28in. stick
model, 7/6. Glue, 9d. Post: N.S.W., 1/-;
QTand, Vic., 1/6.
READY-TOFLY MODELS “Wasp,” 7/6.
Post: N.S.W., 1/3; QTand, Vic., 1/9.
“Eagle,” 15/6. Post: N.S.W., 1/6; QTand,
Vic., 2/3.
Write for 10-page Price List of Model ’Planes
and Materials to Build.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD,
395 George Street, Sydney.
ţ
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
i. 2 V<3unger'Crescent, Caulfield,
S.K.S. Melbourne.
Get your Christmas publicity into
THE BARRIER MINER
before all the Christmas Presents
are selected. A booming Christ-
mas coming at Broken Hill and
the sheep district around.
THE PATRIOT
[DIRECTMEDIUM Tg WOMEN!
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Hep.: H. C. HTNCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
If any illustration in "The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Quoted
Your “ Swan ” is as
individual to you as
your own handwriting
The choice of a
“ Swan” Pen shows
that you have a
just appreciation of
quality and all that
it implies in the
making of a perfect
writing implement.
Now
made in
Charming
Colours
IV* ■
TK* 3 V'*
I!
Swan
PEN
Self-Filling “Swans” from 17/6 (Black or Mottled)
Also in Artistic Colours from 22/6
“Fvne-Poynt” Pencils from 7/6
Self-Filling “ Blackbird ” Pens from 9/-
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
Illustrated Catalogue post free
MABIK, TODD & CO., LTD., Swan House, London, W.I
Facories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Derot :
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD , 181, Cla ence Street, SYDNEY
Jade
Rolled Gold
Bands
30 /•
5.F.230C
Black or
Mottled
(with clip)
27/6
FOR
’SWAN’ PENS
AND
ALL PENS
E(A.)
Poverty
Point
" Say Bo.”: Arthur Stigant, who will Dame
for “The House that Jack Built,” at Melb.
Royal, must surely hold a world’s record for
this branch of the business. He has donned
skirts in 32 pantos, in England and Aus-
tralia. Stigant blushfully confesses to the
authorship of several musical comedies still
in manuscript, and writes many of the songs
he sings.
"Shoot, Darn Yuh”: Despite the com-
parative failure in Australia of “This Year
of Grace,” the Firm will most likely experi-
ment with the latest of Noel Coward’s Lon-
don successes early in the new year. It will
be . the industrious young man’s operetta
“Bitter Sweet.” Over 750,000 have seen
“Bitter Sweet” at Her Majesty’s. One woman
has taken the same box for every Wednesday
matinee since the premiere : her fancy has
cost her £3OO.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: John Bruce, recently
dead, came here from England 35 years ago
with Ivyrle Bellew and Mrs. Brown Potter.
Bland Holt induced him to remain; he was
afterwards with Dam pier for seven years,
and figured with Margaret Anglin and Lewis
Waller also. Of late years he had had a
lean time theatrically, but he had been a
fairly prudent man in the good times. Bruce’s
last appearances were with Oscar Asche in
“Julius Csesar.”
“R.R.”: Claude Flemming is far from
being “the only Australian in Hollywood with
a thorough inside knowledge of the talkie
industry,” as “C. Ma” (B. 5/11/’3O) asserts.
Others are Roy Pomeroy, who directed “Inter-
ference” for Paramount; and Wilfred Lucas,
a First National director-producer; Jack
McGowan, directing for Universal; Harry
(“Snub”) Pollard, who comes from Carlton
(Vic.) ; Charley Hines, brother of Johnny
Hines, the comedian (they are from Fitz-
roy) ; Fred Lindsay, now a protege of Fred
Niblo; and Rupert Julian, formerly with
Julius Knight and a big man in Hollywood
for years. Julian is the director Thring has
in mind for his Australian talkies.
“Lond.”: A very French trifle by Sacha
Guitry, “Desire,” is at the New, London,
but is too heavily handled. The heroine is
the mistress of a Cabinet Minister, and be-
comes fascinated by her own butler. Paris
left the actual outcome discreetly doubtful;
London has made the final curtain blatantlv
emphatic. A critic protests that it is “the
first time a French play has been made still
more ‘French’ in the hope of appealing to
English taste”.; but this is London’s taste at
the moment—or so managers declare.
“Cine Ma”: The fact that “Blackmail,”
the English talkie that was so well received
in London, is just being vouchsafed to Mel-
bourne audiences illustrates the damage done
by the captiousness of the Australian cen-
sorship. When it was first released it w T as
acclaimed as a great technical advance on
the American talkie. In the interim, Holly-
wood has caught up and gone beyond it.
The result will be that Australian audiences
will compare it unflatteringly with the latest
U.S.A. production.
“Cauboy” : According to' the Firm, George
Parker, Melbourne producer of “The Road to
Romance,” devoted an infinite amount of time
to research into the period of the Punic
Wars. He studied many books, viewed pic-
tures and prints at the National Gallery, and
consulted various authorities on the way the
Romans and the Carthaginians ate, walked
and dressed. Mr. Parker could have saved
himself all this trouble. The author of
the play made no effort to follow historical
truth. In fact, Sherwood deliberately re-
wrote the period in modern terms. If the
producer had furnished his senator’s sitting-
room with a listening-in set and a t.-p.
pianola he would have been nearer the spirit
of the thing.
“Cine Ma”: Silent-film theatres have been
struggling along in Melbourne. There was
even a mild boom in the quieties a few
weeks ago, when the Strand in Bourke-street
put on a series of German pictures of far
greater merit than any of the current vocal
ones. But the deathblow has come, and by
the irony of Fate it is being delivered, not
by the talkies, but by the midget-golf craze.
Nearly a score of Hoyts’ suburban theatres
and one of tlieir city houses are to be laid
out .with imitation grass lawns. As for the
talkies,, they are too busy warding off the
depression to deal a deathblow to anything.
“Aix-les-Coogee”: In the early days of the
films George Portus, silk-hatted, frock-coated
and swinging a gold-nobbed walking-stick,
was. ostentatiously pioneering concert cele-
brities around Australia. W. O. Gibson
thought such a sartorial vision would be a
sight for film fanciers, and suggested that
George should appear in a new nicture. He
gave Portus the script to read and met him
by appointment in a saloon-bar. “Look
here,” George said. “I see by this scripr
that I am, a financial crook. I inveigle the
girl aboard my yacht, go through a false
marriage, desert her in Buenos Ayres after
throwing her brother’s body into a cactus
grove, do a bit of blackmail, meet a rich
widow 7 , poison her wine and—-say, Gibby, do
you think this part suits me?” “Think!”
Gibson repeated. “It will fit you like a glove.”
Portus. stroked his chin ; then turned to the
barmaid. “My dear,” he said. “I’ll have a
nice long glass of sarsaparilla.”
“S.”: There, will be free orchestral music
in the open air during the coming summer
’.n Melbourne, Sydney Myer having repeated
his admirable offer of £lOOO to Fritz Hart
and the Melbourne Symphony crew 7. Last
year there were six concerts, and over
100.000 people sat on the grass in the
Botanic Gardens, where the acoustics are
at least as good as they are in the Town
HaU.
“C. Ma”: Two or three years ago the
Tivoli people announced that they had
arranged to bring out Grock, whose brilliant
clowning has delighted a generation ol
Frenchmen. Then the talkies hit the amuse-
ment world, and no more was heard of
Grock as far as Australia was concerned.
He is never likely to be seen here now,
however well things go with the Hugh D.
Mclntosh renaissance. Grock is retiring,
and a chateau is in process of construction
for him at Oneglia, overlooking the Gulf of
Genoa. The contract price for the royal
dwelling is reputed to be in the region of
£lOO,OOO.
“Dramofilm”: The gazette lias been shock
ingly neglected of late. Its arrangemen.
seems to be left to the care of persons eithci
drunk or blind. In the space of a few
minutes one will see Mussolini reviewing
some Fascisti; a baby show in Oskosk,
Ohio; some dejected-looking camels in the
Arabian desert; feeding-time in the Lo
Angeles Zoo; speedboats on Lake Bullswool
Missouri; two Spanish gentlemen doing tin
latest tango in a N’York night club; and th
final of the baseball at Chickahominy, Va
Newspapers, with all their faults, would
scorn such a limited variety of news. Th
few scenic films exhibited are also deadh
in their monotony. The Grand Canyon, fn
instance; it is nowadays as familiar to Aus
tralians as the pub around the corner.
The Palette
There are some bad talking films in Mel-
bourne at the moment, but there are worse
ones amongst the silent pictures. See the
spring show of the Victorian Artists’ Society
for confirmation.
There are few Old Masters of any im-
portance in private hands in Melbourne,
judging by the loan collection on view at
the Town Hall in aid of the hospital appeal.
A copy of a Rembrandt self-portrait, owned
by Mrs. T. W. Rowe, is, however, extra-
ordinarily well done; it is by local painter
Justus Jorgensen. Lord Somers sends a
portrait of himself by Lazslo, which only
serves to demonstrate that the chances of a
Court painter also being an artist arc as
the chances of Phar Lap not winning his
next w.f.a. race. There is a lovely land-
scape by Corot, belonging to J. T. Tweddle,
and among the gems of the exhibition are
an early-Australian landscape by Max Mel-
drum and the same artist’s portrait of Fritz
l-Iart. Orpen’s jolly cartoon “Sowing the
Seed,” which Adelaide cast forth in shocked
surprise, makes its reappearance from the
collection of Senator Bob Elliott. The show
is due to a suggestion of Alec Isaacson.
“F.S.”: Jorgensen took nearly a year to
do his copy of the Rembrandt self-portrait.
Among visitors who admired it at the
, Louvre was a Chinese emissary, and out of
his inspection came an offer of an art in-
structorship at the Hankow University. Aftei
some consideration, Jorgensen turned the
offer down. It was just as well, because
shortly afterwards Hankow went Bolshevik,
and has had as little use since for art as
Melbourne has during this time of economic
depression.
Beatrice Chettle, whose show is at the
Society of Arts Gallery in Adelaide, is an
English painter who came to South Aus.
seven years ago, and has been back for a
summer’s experience of woodlands and old
buildings, mainly about Shrewsbury. Her
delicate water-colors set down facts with a
care approaching the photographic, and are
backed by unusually good drawing. Prices
are low, and sales good.
A revolt against the pretty-pretty and the
hackneyed in art is a good healthy sign when-
ever it crops up, and the search for simpler
and more effective ways of saying things
pictorially is an intriguing one. The little
coterie of painters which calls itself the
Contemporary Group proves, however, in its
current exhibition at the Macquarie Gal-
leries, Sydney, that the way is bestrewn with
pitfalls. Deliberately crude draughtsmanship
and monotonously careless brush strokes may
be justified if they produce a definite and
aimed-at effect, but they become a weari-
some affectation if they don’t. Such things
as Grace Cossington Smith’s “Bridge in
Curve,” Roland Wakelin’s “Mr. Micko” and
“Turret Theatre,” and Enid Cambridge’s
“Shed Window” and “Apricot Tree” are so
artless that there is no art left in them.
Kenneth Macqueen achieves fantastic deco-
rative effects in “Across the Farm” and “A
Tropic Storm.” Elioth Gruner’s “Winter
Day” and “Red Road” are nice studies in
a low key. Vida Lahey gets Australian
summer morning sunlight into “8 a.m.,” a
railway-station scene, and Joseph Connor
manages an against-the-sun lighting very
deftly in “Industries.” Outside the futurist
and modernist pieces there is good work;
for example, in Arthur Murch’s “Seam-
stress,” in the Dutch style, and in Thea Proc-
tor’s beautiful pencil sketch “Mary.” Daryi
Lindsay’s pictures, “Bacchus Marsh Land-
scape” and “Little Bunch.” come between the
two worlds of past and future, and are
honest impressionistic pieces, pleasing in
coloring.
The Inky Way
Returning to Australia from England in a
new r6le—welfare officer on the Jervis Bay
is Sydney journalist Gilbert Mant, who has
put in most of the year in Fleet-street and
paits adjacent. This was his second trip
overseas ; before he left he was on tne staff
of Sydney “Telegraph Pictorial.” A cousin
of Hugh McCrae, Gilbert is known to Bul-
i/etin readers under the pen-name of “Jacky
Roo,” and the “Woman’s Mirror” has pub-
lished three of his serials.
“Wingham”: Arthur Reginald Bamforu,
who has written his last sheet of copy, was
a Ma State country pressman for half a
century. He worked under J. C. L. Fitz-
patrick, sometime M.L.A. for Orange, on the
Molong “Argus” and was associated with
another Fitzpatrick on the Wingham “Chron-
icle” for IS years. He could report a meet-
ing, space an ad., display a poster, pen
a leader, write a par. and collect news with
the next man.


Bank of New Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH s
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital .. .*•.•••
Reserve Fund and Undivided
Profits
£6,858,113
4,173,156
£11,031,269
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
(he World. Every description of Banking Business
conducted.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOOTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COI.LINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
BIRKMYRE'S CLOTH
(Kegd. Trade Mark.)
In addition to ‘‘BIRBTMYRE’S CLOTH” be-
ing a Registered Trade Mark the following
are also Registered Trade Marks, each corn*
plete in itself.
“BX” “H” *‘S” and “K”
•*L” “OM” “M” and “N”
Any one of these marks will protect your
interests
Th ' COUROCK Export Co. LTD.
379 Kent-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Charlotte-street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders-street, Melbourne, Vic.
CONCENTRATE ON
QUEENSLAND.
You can increase the sale of
YOUR goods by building up a mar-
ket in the most responsive, least “de-
pressed” State in the Commonwealth
—QUEENSLAND.
* * * * •
Investigate the possibilities of the
Queensland market NOW by getting
in touch with a representative of
Queensland’s Oldest, Biggest, and
most Influential Newspaper.
®he Courier.
Published by :
THE BRISBANE NEWSPAPER
CO., LTD.,
Queen-street, Brisbane. ’Phone 82991.
Sydney Representative: Robert D.
Fisher, 74 Pitt-street.' ’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative: L. S.
Marks, The Argus Bldg., Elizabeth
and Latrobe streets. ’Phone F 3906.
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
| IVNvAI
THIS
SUMMER
Hawaii. .Waikiki Beach, .picturesque
people, .festivals, .sunshine and palms
. . . Queen Island of the South Seas,
Hawaii draws visitors from every land.
DGCQ COf\
LJ
m:
m
7
t
ST)
fr
w*
s
ii j
m
mm
NIAGARA
AORANGI
(anadi an Australasian
EXCURSIONS
Hawaii, Via ,44tV Zealand and Suva.
Book with Union Steam Ship Company,
Sydney—Melbourne.
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co., Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
Sailing December 11, January 8, February 5
Vs
V!
V
Sunny South Seas
Enchanting Trip to PAPUA via BRIS-
BANE, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS, and
the glorious WHITSUNDAY PASSAGE
inside the renowned Great Barrier Reef.
Smooth Water —Sandy Beaches—T ropical
Scenery—Volcanic and Coral Islands—Quaint
Native Villages and Customs—Rest, Change
and Variety.
THREE WEEKS’ TOUR.
Fare, £4O to £44, Return.
Apply for Pamphlet No. 52/P to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
BRISBANE
Read
richly
1/- Copy, All Newsagents.
“B.P. Magazine,”
illustrated in color.
and
w
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
Witb which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
£2l
.. £7,500,000
.. 6,150,000
.. 7,500,000
£21,150.000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle Si
588 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, F
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
t., E.C.2.
'iji, Papua,
the world.
.Negotiated
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,090,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Divcctovs •
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Bircliin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory, , Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world. _ .
■ill Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted. _
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS. —Inspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Huddart Parker Lil
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar Bailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge anaat, Sydney.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
AsiA *
• THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL &C lm.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
RAVOVAC
OG
mm
•1$
We suggest that
you ask your nearest
distributor to show you
the complete line of RAY-
O-VAC Electric Torches
and RAY-O-VAC Bat-
teries. There are no
> better made.
&
Bl>C*
ť
Manufacturer’* Representation
W. C. SCHWAB
Box 1821. G.P.0.,
Melbourne, Viet.
FRENCH BATTERY CO.
CHICAGO U.S.A. >„
Dominion.
New Zealand's
National Morning Daily .
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity. ;
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion’' is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481. WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
50
Subjects Weekly.
ALSO COLORED PICTURES
WORTH FRAMING.
ON SALE AT
ALL
NEWSAGENTS
EACH WEEK.
“The Australasian”
The Paper all Australians appreci-
ate, and their friends overseas, too!
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d«
Contains everything a tcoman needs to linoio.


Personal.
YY7ANTED Lady as marriage and business
partner by young gent. (29) with busi-
ness and travel proposition on Western
Pacific Group of Islands. Someone interested
in freelance and travel writing. Capital
required about £3OO. No. 210, this Ottice.
Legal Notice.
T° REBECCA IRENE FRANCES PINKNEY
daughter of Caroline Frances Pinkney who died
intestate at Masterton New Zealand on the 4th April
1898 and to her children (if any) and to all persons
claiming by through or under them.
Pursuant to an Order made on the 30th October
1930 by a Judge of the Supreme Court of New
Zealand you are hereby called upon to send in to the
undersigned on or before the 31st January 1931
your claims to the estate of the abovenained deceased
failing which the said estate will be distributed
amongst those entitled thereto disregarding your
claims.
Dated at Wellington this 3rd day of November.
1930.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
/S
m.
CHOIC
C CAR
6
D
EACH
A
Mellow and cool, Club Reil Cigars are especially adapted
to the Australian taste. Made of rich Havana leaf, fragrant
and flavorsome... .and delightfully mild.
Obtainable from all Hotels and Tobacconists or
CRAIG AND AITKEN,
Col GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
£
vSZ
a j
/ 1
r/fc
ts
a 'mv
/a
/ -' p
If
v‘/f/. JtV
I *V
» . W^.A\iw%fr
\f ■:"'^f'^ (i y x " fwifa
n
I
m
A\
C‘‘
rO,r
£/"•
£
#
«k
w
LSi
K
rw
<= l
yvi-Va
%
Come to
a*
St, vJaK
IN
SfJ
v.
- , ■ £i”W
'., _ &iri;' JjS
H&U N •
. -' N '• V.£. N \*
WK
• m
f
a, s
v !;
s«>y
1
*>3 ■ k . f
* it
IM
iwvi
it-'.'W
g®';
riA
v
US
»
SSfi
N,f
if
*B®
Ns
: ,sm
V: *a>;
:N
HR
m
- ■ - *(•
**N
3**B
The finest walk.
in the world
Ihrouqk'maqnifiwit' native busty,
AT the head of beautiful Lake Te Anau this
wonderful three days’ walk begins, leading to
Milford Sound, deep in the West Coast. Every
mile is packed with new beauty and incident . . .
bird life, fern and tree growth, mountain, lake, river
and waterfall in bewildering and amazing variety.
The wonderful Sutherland Falls are passed, leaping
down from a height of almost 2,000 feet the
highest falls in the world. Come and see for
yourself. Come and be thrilled, amazed, by this
“different” holiday.
NEW ZE AIL AND
FILL IN THIS COUPON
and post it addressed to —N.Z.
Govt. Office, Martin Place, Sydney.
P/ease send me ,11nsirated booklets and
full information about New Zealand.
Name
Address ;
SH7A
fora DIFFERENT
Holiday
51
Free Steamer Fares to New Zealand
The Mount Cook Company’s office will
pay your First Class Steamer Fare to New
Zealand. The terms of this offer leave
you free to plan your itinerary as you
please, providing that it includes the Com-
pany’s services at Rotorua, the Chateau,
National Park, Mt. Cook or Queenstown.
In the case of extended tours, this offer will
be increased to include return fare also.
Full particulars and specimen tours avail-
able on application to The Tourist Booking
Office, 9A Bligh Street, Sydney; to the
Company’s Agents, Dalgety & Co., through-
out Australia; or to New Zealand Govern-
ment Tourist Offices, Martin Place, Sydney,
and Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, and Ade-
laide.
This offer is open until November 28th, 1930.
MOUNT COOK TOURIST COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
9a Bligh Street, Sydney.
The NEW ZEALAND GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, Martin Place, Sydney
SHADOW SHOWS.
Ruth Chatterton is to be seen by Sydney-
ites just now as two very different women
who have to face the same problem—that
of coping with a strange environment
~ In _ Paramount’s “The Better Wife,” at
the Capitol, sue is a boozing, cigarette-such
ing drab when first encountered With a dis-
leputable slipper dangling precariously from
a bare foot she sprawls before an open win-
dow and smgs nasally to the accompaniment
of her ukulele. Clive Brook is a New York
lawyer whose wife has left him for a rival
with more money. He is on a sordid bendu
her’ 011 TT S d l Un ? en gaz . e .happens to rest on
H . asks ber t 0 Jolu in the revels, and
they aie married a few hours later He
has gone into the business blind in ’ every
sense of the word, but she hasn’t; she means
make a success of the marriage, and you
see her doing it. His servants sum her 3 up
jvp w ®, be if’ an d »ive notice; she talks
them round. He is inclined to drink harder
than ever when he realises what he has
work bU r-T? hC ' Sobe p hi , ra up and makes him
work. His men-friends visit her without
then wives, and the most important of th
—superbly represented by Paul Lukas—falls
in love with her. However, she turns him
down having grown fond of her cantur?
PSrSjT*,,' Vhil f ‘ hC h “ sb »M
Happily. hns been won b »'' and all ends
It isn’t exactly life. Women whose voices
liave acquired the gutter timbre (Miss Chat
ter ton p U t s this world-wide note into her
beautiful voice with rare art) have gone
too far on the downward path to train on
into social successes. However it is a nl as
7/ a 6 '- , well Produced and restrain-
and" plenty E""* SitU “ tiOUS
** * '
M r h M Lady °- f Scandal,” at the Plaza, is an
version of Lonsdale’s “The Hieh
Load, with an English cast. Ruth Chatter-
a,a «' am begins by being a Cinderella, but
notllin g T despicable about her. Lord
Ciayle s son, John, only succeeds in ner-
to'hi mB^ Up tb i° stage and become
A^a^edto him after a long struggle The
wb ; ch !» action and dialogue closely
W? WS the play the Boucicault co. produced
licit some years ago, shows how a fascinating
woman can revolutionise the outlook of a
fetw ltlon u fan i lly V Slle transforms John’s
fathci and uncle from solemn prigs into
cheery cocktail-swigging sportsmen; most of
their womenfolk get to like her. and her
ways become the ways of the household Then
John s ducal cousin falls in love with he?
and she falls in love with him ; John nobly
gives up his claims and retires to India 3 -
and she nobly gives up the duke when the
husband of the lady with whom he has been
living inopportunely dies. As the lights fade
out she is back on the stage, doing the
musical comedy song-and-dance with which
she was enthralling London when we first
met ner.
The scenes are so English that it is hard
to believe they were shot in the U.S.A and
the casting demonstrates again the pull the
hlms have over the stage. No theatrical pro-
ducer could have afforded to assemble ail
these stars, much less send them on tour.
Apart from Miss Chatterton, who, as Elsie
merely has to be herself, Basil Rathbone as
the duke and Frederick Kerr as Lord Trench
stand out, but the acting of the others is
flawless.
* ¥ *
' interesting feature of Paramount’s
“Monte Carlo” at Sydney Prince Edward
Theatre is its realism. Nearly all the
LI.S.A. luxury films seen by this critic have I
shown New York stockbrokers, lawyers and
others who presumably have to work for
their livings loafing with incredibly over-
dressed females in incredibly palatial sur-
roundings. Loafing is normal in freakish
little Monaco, and most of its visitors are
lorn loafers; so Ernst Lubitsch’s rococo
picture doesn’t jar at any stage. The train
which transports Jeanette MacDonald to the
Riviera is a genuine Blue Train in all re-
spects, and the effect of verisimilitude is
heightened when she bursts into song, and the
audience looks through the train windows
and sees the peasants at work in the fields.
With the exercise of a little imagination you
can catch the perfume of the almond groves
on the hillsides. The scenes on the Riviera
aie extraordinarily well done, and the crowds,
in addition to resembling those that flock
to the Casino at Easter-time, move in the un-
hurried yet purposeful manner of Casino
crowds.
The plot, such as it is, is based on the
reluctance of the heroine to marry a Ger-
man Grand Duke. She runs away and gives
her aristocratic heart to Jack Buchanan,
who is ostensibly a hairdresser. Fortunately
he is a Count, so they can get married with-
out violating musical-comedy traditions.
Buchanan, whom Sydney talkie patrons have
seen m several other films, is as handsome
agile and exquisitely tailored as before; his
technique doesn’t vary. Jeanette Mac-
Donald, who was somewhat wooden in “The
King” is vivacious in this produc-
tion, and her flamboyant beauty is well in
the picture. The advisability of sub-editing
the dialogue is getting to be understood
more and more by producers, and it has been
done with great effect here. The numbers,
which are far above the average musical-
comedy level, have been splendidly recorded.
Altogether Monte Carlo” is a great show
of its class.
* # *
Sydney Haymarket unwound a film re-
cently that was calculated to wring sympa-
thetic sobs from every homicidal feminist in
the audience. This was “The'Love Racket”
starring Dorothy Mackail. Dorothy is a jury-
girl empanelled to try a lady who has shot
her betrayer dead. The evidence is over-
whelming and the 11 male jurors and the
Court are all for a conviction. But she holds
out with a stubbornness that is as remarkable
as her beauty and eloquence. The fact is she
hiis herself been betrayed by the deceased,
aad bas had a shot at him and missed. After
that disclosure we agree, one and all, that
nothing but an acquittal will meet the ends
of justice. Miss Mackail is essentially a
comedy actress, and she always seems to have
her_ tongue _in her cheek while registering-
fruity emotion. But the Haymarket public
loves her in any part, and that is the main
thing. |


IT
mm
r f f f
T?
ISK
rrJ ’)
fff
\\ X
17, >1
\ 7
V.
B
■n
1
1®
s
1
A
uUiliii
•Mi
m,
«
IS
to
57
t»q> 174? d'W**
:V
Aa
m
MO4SI W4T«U*li-
when should a r
DRINK WHISKY?
IT is a common mistake to suppose that a little whisky
is a suitable drink only at this or that time of day. Of
course there are occasions that call for whisky and for
nothing else. For example, after the eighteenth hole, or
the first act. But if you are wise, and go in for White
Horse, you will find other comers of the day when this
whisky is splendidly appropriate, as an appetiser or as a
liqueur, or when the day’s work is done.
It is so deep in its maturity that a man may drink White
Horse Whisky at any time.
White House
’scotch Whisky


Legal Notice.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1215 of 1930.
Between CATHERINE ROPER (formerly Catherine
Burke) Petitioner
And ERNEST ALFRED GEORGE POWIS
ROPER Respondent.
To ERNEST ALFRED GEORGE POWIS ROPER
late of Blue’s Point-road North Sydney in the State
of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said CATHERINE ROPER
has commenced a suit against you in this Honorable
Court and is applying for a dissolution of marriage
on the ground that you have without just cause or
excuse wilfully deserted her and without any such
cause or excuse left her continuously so deserted
during three years and upwards. AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an appear-
ance to the said Suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the twenty-eighth day
of January 1931 and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit will
ne heard and determined your absence notwithstand-
ing.
A copy of the Petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned Solicitor free of
charge. ,
Dated this twenty-eighth day of October, 1930.
For the Registrar,
[L.s.] C. K. BODY,
. „ Chief Clerk in Divorce.
A- E. M LSTCOTT, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1182 of 1930.
Between ISABELLA MARION ANDREW’S Petitioner
And ALEXANDER ANDREWS Respondent.
To ALEXANDER ANDREWS late of Lismore in the
State of New South Wales Baker.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Isabella Marion
Andrews has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the ground that you have without
just cause or excuse wilfully deserted her and with-
out any such cause or excuse left her continuously
so deserted during three years and upwards. AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office of
this Honorable Court on or before the twenty-eighth
day of January 1931 and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit will
be heard and determined your absence notwithstand-
ing.
A copy of the Petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned Solicitor free of
charge.
Dated this twenty-eighth day of October, 1930.
For the Registrar,
[l.s. ] C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
A. E. WESTCOTT, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. ,
Missing Friends.
E STATE of JOHN HENRY BUSH, late of Carinda..
in the State of New South Wales, Australia,
Cook, deceased, intestate.
TAKE NOTICE that the Public Trustee of New-
South Wales is the Administrator of the estate of
the abovenamed deceased, who died intestate at
Carinda on sth June, 1928. The intestate was born
in Sydney, New South Wales, Australia, on 29th
September, 1864, and was the son of Osborne John
Bush and Meathable Bush {nee Sparrow). Let the
said Meathable Bush (maiden name Sparrow) or her
personal representative and the brothers and sisters
of the intestate, and let the maternal and paternal
uncles and aunts and nephews and nieces of the
intestate take notice that unless a claim by them
or any of them to be next of kin of the intestate
is received by the Public Trustee, 107-09 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, aforesaid, within four months after
this date, the Public Trustee will distribute the
estate of the intestate amongst the next of kin of
whose claims he then has notice.
E. J. PAYNE,
Public Trustee.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Amusements.
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S : SONS O’ GUNS.
CRITERION:
THIS THING CALLED LOVE.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD..
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL: THE CINGALEE
COMEDY THEATRE:
PEG O’ MY HEART
(Commencing November 22).
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
TWICE DAILY, at 2.30 and 8 p.m.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents
THE NEW REVUE
VANITY FAIR,
With a Brilliant Cast of Popular Favorites.
Popular Pre-war Prices,
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Cragford .brought Eastern Monarch vividly
into the limelight as a sire by capturing the
A.J.C. Metropolitan this spring, but Taisho
may be regarded as the first good represen-
tative of this English stallion. Just over 12
months ago Taisho won the w.f.a. Herbert
Power Stakes, ran fourth in the Caulfield
, Cup, third in the Victoria Derby and third
in the Williamstown Cup. The breeder, J. P.
Arthur, then sold him privately, at a sub-
stantial figure, to 11. E. Vail, of Ivalgoorlie.
In the autumn Taisho was heavily supported
for the Doncaster Handicap, but things went
wrong with him in Sydney. Trainer M. T.
McGrath has not been flying at high game
with the gelding of late. However, Taisho
credited the Kalgoorlie mineowner with a
good stake by landing the Armadale Handi-
cap at Caulfield last Saturday.
The Gay Mutineer was favorite for the
Armadale Handicap. He finished fourth,
and ought to have won. Frank Dempsey
tried to ride a waiting race in the Caulfield
Cup on The Gay Mutineer, who overpowered
him. Ashley Iteed had an entirely different
experience on Saturday. The Gay Mutineer
was buried in the ruck, and less than half
a mile from home had only three horses be-
hind him. When an opening at last pre-
sented itself Dave Price’s prad flashed
through the field, and he might have gone
on to victory if he had not run into grave
trouble at the distance. Mira Donna, who
had been narrowly beaten by Barbette in
the Oaks, acted as pacemaker throughout.
She fought out a bitter finish with Taisho,
who scored by half a head, Spang (third)
being a length farther off. Cragford was
no oil-painting. Taisho is low-set, narrow
and exceptionally plain, yet he can gallop.
The price was 7 to 1.
Had the protest against Donna Celesta (6
to 1) in the Stansmore Two-year-old been
upheld a peculiar situation would have
arisen. Duncan, who rode the second horse,
Heroic Prince, lodged an objection on the
ground of interference in the straight. The
favorite, Calina, was sandwiched between
Heroic Prince (rails) and Donna Celesta.
When the latter bored in she collided with
.Calina, who cannoned on to Heroic Prince
and was squeezed out. The stewards per-
mitted the judge’s placings to stand, but
they suspended Badger, the rider of Donna
Celesta, for carelessness, and Badger will
have to stand down for the remainder of
the year. If the race could have been re-
run and contestants started on equal terms
there is no doubt that Heroic Prince would
have taken the spoils. He came from a long
■way back.
Donna Celesta is a sister to Mira Donna,
and belongs to F. S. Meyers, who won the
S.A.J.C. Goodwood Handicap of 1915 with
Golden Wire. At a later period he owned
St. Mira, but he had disposed of that geld-
ing before his Toorak Handicap success.
Meyers is not nervous when it comes to
wagering on his own horses, and, though
Donna Celesta started at twice as long odds
as Calina and Heroic Prince, who were
equal favorites, Caulfield bookmakers pro-
bably would do no good over the race.
Jack Holt, who trains Heroic Prince, led
in the Ormond Stakes winner Hellenist, who
is owned in Adelaide by Iv. D. Bowman.
The Denacre —-Grecian Queen gelding was
backed with the utmost confidence to 7 to 2,
and. leading from start to finish, he experi-
enced no difficulty in shaking off challenges
from Nepean and Brockwood. The rider
of Brockwood weighed in 41b. light and suf-
fered disqualification. Third money went to
Lindbergh, owned and trained by the former
Sydney jockey Myles Connell. As Connell
resides in Adelaide there was a distinctively
S.A. flavor about the Ormond Stakes result.
• «•••»
Blast failed his backers in the Kasouka
Hurdle, which went to Horoscope (5 to 1),
a stable-companion of the Moonee Valley
Gold Cup winner, Shadow King. The Tara
Steeplechase was appropriated by Diamond
Plume, favorite at 7 to 2; but I O TJ re-
turned his supporters 10 to 1 in the Ross-
town Plate. In that race Mollison ran
very disappointingly, and Girouette (third)
was unlucky, as Tisual. E. M. Pearce has
had enough of Mollison, who is up for sale.
I 1 or Epsom on Saturday:—
Highweight Handicap: Birthday Girl;
next, The Happy Warrior.
Epsom Handicap: Sartaress; next, Glaive.
* * * *
Memories of three great horses were re-
called at Randwick on Saturday when Glori-
ole and Chatham cleared out from the rest
of the field in the second division of the
YV oollahra Stakes and battled it out, neck
and neck, for half a mile. Gloriole is a bay
filly by Heroic —Gloaming’s Sister (she was
really Gloaming's sister), and Chatham is
a bay colt by Windbag—Myosotis. Gloriole
had had a race, and Chatham hadn’t, and
that decided the issue. But it was only
by a head that the colt failed after the most
exciting two-year-old handicap seen for
many a day on the A.J.C. course.
Gloriole and Chatham cut out five fur-
longs in just 60 seconds. Ranier, the sister
to Rampion and Ramulus, took ljsec. longer
in winning the first division. Second to her
was Chatterelle, a filly by Windbag—Lute
String. It is pleasant to see Windbag as
well as Heroic beginning to distinguish him-
self as a sire. No gamer or lionester horse
ever looked through a bridle, and, although
there is no denying Phar Lap’s superlative
merit, it may be doubted if his achievement
on Cup Day was superior to that of Wind-
bag five years before, who gave Manfred
221 b. and rilliewinkie 31b. and got over the
two miles in 3min. 22fsec.
Waugoola went off a bit before the Epsom ;
had he kept right he would have made a
race of it with Cathmar. Backed from
fours to 9 to 4 for the Flying Handicap he
showed fine dash, and nothing had a chance
with him over the last furlong. Old Golden
Voice (25 to 1) was second and Circuline
(4 to 1) third; High Disdain, on whom the
eccentric Kingsley put up a hurdle-race
jockey, was never sighted. Vallar, favorite
for a time, did the early leading, but was
REVELATIONS.
'KEEP: "How’s ’at?”
SPORTING PARSON (who has consented to umpire ): “Damn good. I mean out!"
of no use to Waugoola when Matthews obliging seconds, but he could not, or would
called on that horse, who is by Duke Hum- not, come up again.
phrey—Justina.
Improving greatly on his showing at
Moorefield, Spearshot (7 to 1) won the
November Handicap decisively from an out-
sider, Promara, and Lord Kennaouhair in
fast time —2min. A change of
jockeys made a difference (Cook, who is in
good form, had the mount on Saturday),
and so did an extra two furlings, for Spear-
shot is nothing if not a stayer. He is a
five-year-old bay gelding by Spearhead—
Ramson. Papatu was backed for a lot of
money. He ran fourth, pulling up lame.
Thus far results had favored backers, but
the bagmen got nearly all the money risked on
the Welter Handicap. Exact, an in-and-out
chestnut daughter of Shillinglee, won that
race after an exceedingly close finish with
Magnetic, Shrill Trill and Yoleuse. The
bookmakers gave her price at 20 to 1, but
her few backers received IfH to 1 on the
tote, which paid two other dividends.
* * * *
For Warwick Farm on Saturday
Maiden Handicap : Sliylock ; next, Rowan
Berry.
Greystanes Nui’sery Handicap : Chatham.
Macquarie Grove Handicap : Staroff; next,
Black Douglas.
Varroville Handicap: Marshon; next,
Valparaiso.
Ilomebush Handicap: New Sweet; next,
Murillo.
Farm Stakes: Valentino.
“Retired Urger”: Pliar Lap’s devastating-
influence has been widespread. Australia
has rung from end to end with the lamenta-
tions of the fielders, and more than one
alleged “leviathan” has had to take the
knock, temporarily, at least. The latest in-
stance quoted hails from one of the Old
Men’s Homes dotted about Sydney. The
local ring magnate went for a skinner on
Telford’s nag, with the result that he could
not meet his obligations on settling day. He
had laid some thumping wagers, there being
talk of one of half a dollar even. However,
when the wireless came through, he folded
his sw r ag and faded away to the wide open,
where he still is for all his clients have
heard to the contrary.
* * # *
“Spare Gun” : No class of the community
will be harder hit by the indirect results of
the depression than the agent who used to
help the law-abiding citizen dodge the postal
ban on “a certain consultation.” Just how
well some of them did can be seen from the
fact that the customer had to pay 6s. 4d. for
a five-bob chance, usually at a small tobac-
conist’s or other shop. These subscriptions
were collected by an itinerant agent, tobac-
conist and traveller each getting 3d. The
balance of the 6s. 4d. went in Tasmanian tax-
ation and deductions and in stamps purchased
from the Federal authorities, who for so- long
refused to carry sweep letters to Tasmania.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
The value of fighting spirit was manifest
at Leichhardt Stadium when Billy McAlister
met Young Gildo for the third time. Mc-
Alister won the two earlier encounters last
March on points, and his friends expected
the score to be three straight. The Aus-
tralian (8.5) made Gildo (8.10) miss with
many swings in the early rounds,- but the
Filipino’s fearless attack told as soon as he
settled down, and a long right to the chin
upset McAlister just before the 10th termi-
nated. Billy was borne to his corner by
Bert Malcolm (9.13) and Jack Hecney
(9.12), whose 15-ronnd contest headed the
programme at Sydney Stadium on Saturday
night, have a long way to go before they will
be first-class fighting men. Lack of variety in
their ring-work was counterbalanced by
the energy they expended, however. Hecney
shaped more like a fighter than his foe, but
Malcolm’s crude cleverness caused many
weighty ones to hit holes in the air, so he
was awarded the decision.
The Ins and Outs
Though cold and windy weather affected
the attendance at the Ryder benefit match
in Melbourne on the opening day, Saturday
more than made amends, 44,000 paying for
admission. Ryder’s side opened, and were
dismissed for a slow knock of 293 after 0
were down for 267. Grimmett. with 5 for
89, seemed to be bowling even better than
when he left for England. However, Harris,
who made a pair of specs for South Australia
in Sydney the other day, batted solidly
for 108, Hendry (45). Ryder (38), Rigg
(29) and Allsopp (20) also doing their bit.
At stumps on Saturday, the Australian
Eleven had 298 up for 6, Ironmonger getting
the best bowling figures with 2 for 53. Jack-
son and Ponsford both went for small scores,
but the inevitable Bradman improved the out-
look with 73 before Mailey bowled him.
Ivippax rattled up 70, Fairfax 39 and Wood-
full, going in fourth wicket down, was 53 n.o.
There was no play on Monday owing to rain.
“Trent Bridge”: Whysall, the burly
batsman-wicketkeeper whom Australia will
remember as a member of Arthur Gil-
ligan’s side in this country six years
ago, is dead at 43. A batsman of
the _ solid type he did well in Aus-
tralia, averaging 34.47 in all matches for
22 innings. He proved more than useful in
the Tests, also, particularly in the third at
Adelaide, where he was conspicuous in the
struggle which saw England lose unluckily
by 11 runs. East season he was included in
the English side for the final Test at the
Oval, on the strength of a run of big scores
in county matches, but did little good with
the bat, while his work in the field —Duck-
worth was at the wickets —provoked some
unkind criticism.
* * * :fc
“Port o’ Spain”: The West Indians
are said to be short of slow bowlers.
That is true to a certain extent, but
O. C. Scott, who bowls medium stuff
as a rule, in the writer’s opinion is
at his best with the slows, and is
a first-change bowler of more than usual
merit. Curiously enough, with wickets
approximating to the Australian variety, the
Indies have never been able to turn out a
real tosser-up of the class of Mailey and
Grimmett. The best we have seen in that
line was C. It. Browne, of British Guiana,
a googly expert who has long dropped out of
big cricket.
=1' * t-
“Aigburth” : The London press has been
indulging in its annual “hate” against Lan-
cashire, that county having committed the
felony of winning the premiership for some
years in succession, and largely by reason
of the fact that it, possesses one of the world’s
best bowlers in Australian E. A. McDonald.
The cotton-spinners have long been in the
habit of hiring prominent cricketers from
outside their boundaries, and as rules stand
to-day there is nothing to prevent them doing
•so. The latest charge levelled at the wearers
of tins red rose is that they are negotiating
with A. Jackson. Lancashire and Jackson
say the yarn is untrue. Even if it was not,
wherein lies the iniquity? Every county in
England includes in its eleven a player from
somewhere outside. Hammond, of Gloucester,
comes from Kent, and he is only one of a
dozen examples. If a foreigner from Kent
can play with W. G. Grace’s old stamping
ground, why not an Australian with Lanca-
shire?
* $ * *
. “C.B.”: The death of George Alexander
in Melbourne (B. 12/ll/’30) leaves only
four of the 13 players who toured England
with the Australian team in 1880. The sur-
vivors are Judge Moule, Blackham, Slight
and Jarvis. Alexander played in the first
English Test, scoring a useful 33, which
turned what promised to be a smashing
defeat into a close go for England.
=!=***
“W. G. Snort” : What promises to be the
liveliest turn-up in Australian cricket circles
since the late Frank Laver told the Board
of Control to go and chase itself is manager
Kelly’s report to the board on the recent
tour of the Australian Eleven. It will be
remembered that Frank objected to the
board’s request that he should furnish
details of his _ stewardship. This time the
trouble has arisen out of the notorious “39
articles” of the contract signed by the
players sent to England. It is common
knowledge that most of the individuals con-
cerned have driven the proverbial coach and
horses through the deed. Bradman is being
singled out as the chief offender, though it
is difficult to see where he has broken his
undertaking. The youngster certainly seems
to have a fine sense of the importance of
publicity, but he has achieved that, not so
much by infringing the rules laid down for
the conduct of himself and liis mates, as by
a studied attitude of “otherwiseness.”
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: The West. Indians are
to get nothing for their exertions, apart from
their travelling and housing expenses, save
the honor and glory. According to the
sizing up of the situation by a West Indian
correspondent, many of the men have to
borrow' money to enable them to take part
in the tour, with the result that they have to
return to a dead horse waiting to be worked
off. What sort of a side could Australia
induce to venture abroad under those con-
ditions?
(Continued on next page.)
Two State four-oar championships were
rowed on Saturday, Mosman No. 2 winning
the N.S.W. event in Sydney for the ninth
time in 10 seasons, while G.P.S., also a con-
sistently scoring crew, took the Queensland
title on the Brisbane River. The Mosman
race was particularly meritorious since the
gruelling two-mile spin was cut out by flic
lightweight stroke, R. W. Butler, in llmin.
5sec., after a punishing challenge from Glebe,
which finished two lengths behind in second
place, with Sydney third.


GrERT’/YOU LOOK QUITE DOHe'up.
WHAT HAVE VOU BEEN DOING,?
BEDT'/'JuST HAD THREE ROUNDS W'TH
A CHAP. I V'JON ON POINTS?
QERT *. ° ? w
Bert : "oh ho ) midc,et e»ou=
The Ins and Outs
South Australia went down to N.S.W. by
213 runs at Sydney, this being the Wheat-
fielders’ second loss in the Sheffield series
for the season. The side will be greatly
strengthened in the games to come by the
inclusion of Grimmett and Victor Richard-
son. Cheering features of the Sydney match
were the batting of Nitsclike, who scored
a sterling 141 in South Australia’s second
gallop, and the bowling of Deverson.
Ni'tschke has a very fine defence, and
though on the slow side at present should
develop pace with the years—he is quite and
pup yet. Deverson is a right-hand fast-
medium bowler with an excellent delivery,
spoilt only by a “prop” in the middle of his
run. He makes a lot of pace off the pitch,
and took 8 for 146 in the match. Pie will
be worth watching. *
* * *
“Hotham” There has been quite a little
breeze in Victorian cricket circles over
Billy Woodfull's decision to resign as
a selector of the sides to meet the
West Indies. The Victorian heads promptly
nominated Jack Ryder, who was the
storm-centre of the last selection com-
mittee. John, however, intimated with
appropriate expressions that he would not
take the job on at any price after his last
experience, and the question then arose as
to who would fill the vacancy. The choice
finally fell on W. J. Johnson, who, though
he has not figured in big cricket, has had a
lot of experience, having skippered the North
Melbourne pennant team for 15 years. The
new selector accompanied the Australian side
during its last tour of England, and so is
well in touch with the form of the leading
players.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip” : Sydney cricketers are taken
aback by the continued omission of the
N.S.W. selectors to include the brilliant
Randwick left-hander Marks in the State
eleven. N.S.W. badly needs a left-hand open-
ing batsman, and the lad from the racing
suburb filled the bill well last season—so
well, indeed, that he was right up on the
State batting list wuth an average of 88.09
for 11 innings, while he is rated in addition
as one of the finest outfields in Australia.
In the place he might have filled, the selec-
tors have shoved Wendell Bill. With no
desire to disparage Bill, it is impossible to
avoid the conclusion that he is darned lucky
to reach the State side ahead of Marks.
❖ ❖ $
“Basin Reserve”: M.L. was mightily in-
terested in the first appearance of the West
Indian team at Wellington, H'enare,
who _ usually takes little notice of cricket,
turning up in notably large numbers to see
how “te prackferras” shaped. Rain com-
pelled the abandonment of the game, but not
before the tourists showed they are a red-
hot lot in the field. iConstantine’s fast bowl-
ing was well offset by the slows of the vet-
eran Scott, and the pair promise to trouble
Australian batsmen more than a little. E.
D. Blundell, late of Cambridge, and a con-
temporary there with the visitors’ captain,
G. Grant, bowded well for the M.L. side.
* * * *
“ ’Badian” : The West Indians, now in our
midst, made a significant opening against.
Wellington in Maoriland when the sooty
whirlwind Constantine rocked the locals
out for 195, Constantine’s average reading
6 for 24. Writer is cheerfully looking for-
ward to the advent of the Buccaneers. To
those who can remember Tibby Cotter and
Ernest Jones, to name a couple of real fast
ones, it will be interesting to see how some
of these modern champion batsmen who have
never faced a real speed merchant —for 1
am of the English opinion that Larwood has
never been a fast bowler’s bootlace—will
shape against the (West Indians on our
wickets. Frankly, I expect that some of
them, in the words of Bobby Peel w r hen
Ernest Jones first performed in England,
“’ll be haalf-way baack t’ t’ pavilion befoor
t’ bails ’as stoapped fliggin’.”
***''*
“Der Jong”: Chapman’s English team in
South Africa had an unexpectedly easy win
in its opening match against Western Pro-
vince at Capetown. The locals, with six
internationals in the side, went down hard
before our old friend Maurice Tate, who
took 5 for 18 in a total of 135. England
closed when 7 were down for 412, Wyatt
taking 138 and Hammond the level 100. The
Cape side could do no better than 122 in
their second try, left-hander Leyland col-
lecting 3 for 4 and Peebles 4 for 31. That
reliable ancient A. D. Nourse, in Australia
with Aubrey Faulkner’s side in 1910-11, top-
scored with 36 in the Afrikanders’ second
innings.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cash Amateur”: The N.S.W. tennis
heads last week considered the application
of J. O. Anderson for reinstatement as an
amateur, and resolved to grant this subject
to the approval of the Australian body. It
advised that the reinstatement should be
made after a “probationary period” of three
months, during which the ex-Davis Cup
player must keep himself pure and un-
spotted from all reproach of professional-
ism. Anderson, as a good sportsman and a
fine player, is well due for reinstatement. The
farcical conditions attaching- to his return to
the fold might have been cut out. There are
a dozen “amateurs” in Australia alone who
have infringed their status. The same may
be said of many leading tennis players the
world over.
'l* *!* *!• -I-
“Cash Amateur” : The decision of the Aus-
tralian tennis tin gods that by giving
an exhibition of strokes for a business
firm Jack Crawford would be indulging in
an orgy of professionalism (B. 12/11/’3O)
is to be challenged. He is to get no money
if he performs in public, whatever may
accrue to the firm. Therefore the N.S.W.
tennis panjandrums have appealed to the
Federal body to lift the ban, their contention
being that it is immaterial whether Craw-
ford’s employers receive pecuniary advantage
from his demonstrations —which is certainly
one way of regarding the matter.
❖ ❖ ❖ *
“Amateur Pro”: As an amateur sports-
man who has for years been accustomed to
receive payment under the lap for my abili-
ties, I must confess to being astonished at
the decision of the N.S.W. tennis Pooh Balls
to pay only train travelling expenses for
the team they are going to select for a trip
to Victoria. I have made many long
journeys with amateur teams, and never yet
has my account for washing, cabs, enter-
taining visitors, tips and good old “sundries”
been questioned by the treasurer. I feel,
however, that those methods of accounting-
are passing. How the new generation of
amateurs will meet the situation I am unable
to forecast. Of this much I am certain —
they will rise to the occasion as one J. T.
Lang.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“Top Spin”: The question of Davis Cup
representation cropped up at meetings of
the N.S.W. and Victorian tennis authorities
last week, the Australian Council having
asked for an opinion on the subject. Both
decided in favor of a challenge every two
years, it being held that an annual defi. was
too expensive. Costs could be cut dowp by
reverting to the old system of nlaying the
prelims, in the American zone, so called. The
Japs are content to go to Yankeeland year
after year, and there seems no sane reason
why Australia should insist on sending men
to Europe.
The Nineteenth Hole
“The McHaggis”: An informed contri-
butor last week commented in The Bulletin
on the shocking lack of golf manners dis-
played by members of clubs which carry
enough swank to encourage them in main-
taining their ridiculous fees, and at the same
time neglect to instruct their members in
the common courtesies of the game. He men-
tioned, as one example of the treatment he
had to put up with on the course of one of
Sydney’s clubs, the fact that he encountered
a threesome which claimed the rights of a
two-ball match—through an error the match
was described as a “three-ball” one. To
grave and profound students of the game
like myself the correct inference was immedi-
ately obvious. To the ignorant, however, it
may be as well to lay down a path to
tread. Singles, threesomes and foursomes
matches have precedence of and are entitled
to pass any other kind of match. A single
player is without standing, and must get out
of the way to a match of any sort. A
match playing a whole round is entitled to
pass one playing a shorter. If a match side
loses in distance more than one clear hole
on the players in front it may be passed
on request being made. Worth noting is
the definition of a threesome. This is a
match wherein one player with his own
ball is up against two, each playing the one
ball between them. If the three players each
play their own ball, the match is a three-ball
one, and may be passed by a single, three-
some or foursome.
❖ * %
“Brassey”: Quite a lot of folk have gone
on the casualty list at one time or another
as the result of a knock from a golf ball, but
a Sydney typist put up a record the other
day when she was “donged” in a crowded
city .street by a pill that came out of the
empyrean. The bang was hard enough to
necessitate medical treatment, but had no seri-
ous aftermath —unless the young lady has
managed to find out whence the pellet came.
That part of the story is wrapped in mystery.
There are no midget courses in the vicinity,
so the only supposition is that some
enthusiast in an upstairs office was demon-
strating his new swing with the handle of
his umbrella. Take it by and large, however,
the damsel was fortunate in that the
unknown sportsman wasn’t a bowler. There
are a lot of them about Pitt-street, where
the incident occurred.
* * *
“Schlaff”: Arthur East, who 'takes up
the job of professional at the Lakes club in
Sydney., is confident that the standard of
Australian golf has been raised a lot since he
was last here as professional at Concord
When he left Australia eight years ago, East
was for some time in California, later going
to the famous Lakeside club at Chicago.
Golf in America has long ceased to be a
game for the “leisured classes.” It is
played by all and sundry, the many municipal
and other public courses helping a lot in
this direction. To the returned traveller
the most notable change in the game as far
as Australia is concerned is a somewhat
similar trend. The first thing that struck
him was the number of people playing golf
in Australia to-day who, ten years ago,
would never have dreamed of tackling it,
the increase in young players being'especially
notable.
* * *
“Hoylake” : A. C. Croome, recently dead in
England, was probably the most informative
of the many _ golf-writers who comment on
the exasperating game in the British press.
For years his golf articles in the “Morning-
Post” have been eagerly read by the vast
percentage of golfers wli’o have never been
able to play the game decently, and most
certainly never will. Just as a condemned
criminal is said never to give up hope of a
last-minute reprieve until the drop goes from
under him, the golfing dud devours all litera-
ture which he hopes will help him to play a less
horrible round. One of Croome’s last articles
Stressed the importance of not attempting
to hit the ball too hard. This is the snag
which the average golfer is never able to
get past, yet the theory, which is really an
essential fact, is as old as golf itself, and has
been summed up for generations in the old
axiom “Slow back, and don’t press.”
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Let me agree with “J.”
(B. 12/9/’3O) when he says that the claim
made by midget-golf course addicts that the
craze helps the player of the game to improve
his putting is a fallacy. His notion of
making these courses assimilate to real golf
conditions is also praiseworthy, but the idea
has already been taken up in London. The
Stadium Club in Holborn has a complete golf
course in miniature, including high tees, sand
bunkers and many hazards outside the
trick category. In addition to the putter,
which is the universal club on the ordinary
midget round, a mashie is necessary for
several of the holes on the London course.
* * # *
“Cash Amateur” : American golfers are a
bit _ exercised over the recent decision of the
United _ States Golf' Association that anyone
competing for money prizes in miniature-golf
tourneys automatically forfeits his amateur
status. The point is important since the
variation of the royal ahd antient game has
achieved a tremendous vogue in the States,
and to such an extent that big tourneys with
heavy cash _ prizes attaching are being held
every day in the week. One promoter in
Chicago has advertised a national open cham-
pionship with a first prize to the winner of
£IO,OOO. At the same time, the fear of
dropping into the professional ranks is not
likely to deter the average “minnie” addict
from his or her obsession. Few regular
players take to the fad, and even those who
do as an experiment throw it up in disgust
after a short trial. The thing isn’t really golf
at all; it is even more monotonous than
matrimony.
Car and Cycle
“Trembler”: The idea of the left-hand
drive on motor-cars is gradually finding
favor in Australia. It was originally scouted
as an American notion born of the “keep-to-
the right” rule which Yankeeland shares with
Europe outside the British Isles. Australia
is finding, as Britain is doing too, that the
left-hand drive is even more convenient for
those parts of the world which say you must
keep to the left. No less an authority in
Britain than S. F. Edge has pronounced in
favor of the system. The points he makes
are _ that the driver can see just how far
he is from the left-hand side of the road,
and can give other motorists ample room for
driving and passing. Overtaking and passing-
are made easier, and the run of a strange
road at night can be followed with greater
safety. Edge, by the way, has nothing to
say as to how pedestrians are likely to be
affected by the left-hand drive. The subject,
certainly, isn’t of much importance nowa-
days.
* * * *
“T.P.”: Motor traders in N.S.W. are
again trying to convince the authorities that
a system of permitting the payment of motor
license fees in quarterly or half-yearly instal-
ments instead of a lump sum would not only
benefit the car-owners but the State revenues.
Many owners have given up their cars,
finding the dumping down of the annual
lump sum moi’e than they can manage, and
registration fees have fallen off correspond-
ingly. There is much to be said for such
a scheme. In France, for instance, a car
may be registered for a day, week, month or
year.
* :!: *
“Fair Cop”: The motor has proved such
a convenience to the criminal that the in-
genious American has turned his attention
to a method of identifying ears by their
tyre prints. The Los Angeles police have
perfected a system whereby the tyre make
of every car is recorded on the license and
in the sheriff’s office. When a hold-up or
theft is reported, the tyre prints of the car
concerned are studied and the machine is
then looked up in the records, this helping to
sheet home responsibility to the people using
it. It sounds ingenious, but what happens
when the car of a blameless cititzen is
stolen for felonious purposes, as is generally
the case in these affairs, is not mentioned.
“Kick Starter”: The duel between the
English and German motor-cycle riders for
the world’s speed supremacy has been car-
ried a step further. When the German
Ernst Henne last year put, up 134.68 m.p.h.
over the mile, riding a supercharged 740-c.c.
machine, English makers set out to build
something capable of beating those figures.
J. S. Wright duly turned the trick on a
cycle of much higher capacity, but just as
English builders were congratulating them-
selves Henne came again with a spin of
137 f m.p.h. Wright has now bettered that.
Riding a machine with a J.A.P. engine
rated at 1000-c.c. capacity, he reached the
mean speed, on a two-ways run, of 150£
m.p.h., with a best run at the rate of 152|
m.p.h.
Miscellaneous
“Spike”: The fact that .Tim Carlton ran
100 yards on the grass in Sydney the other
day in 9 3-ssee. is being acclaimed as a
record for an Australian. Far from it; Donald-
son clocked the same time on the herbage at
Melbourne 19 years ago on two successive
days, and there was no question as to
whether the course was down hill or not.
Donaldson’s performance has stood as a
world’s record ever since—partly because in
no country save Australia is a crack runner
expected to show his paces on grass tracks.
Carlton’s feat stamps him as a greatly- /
improved runner over the 100, but there is
no hope of his record being accepted, since
it was made on one of the Sydney grounds
with the pronounced slope which has recently
been responsible for the cancellation of
many accepted times.
* * =:= *
“Tape”: Something definite has at last
been heard with regard to the visit of a team
of American athletes to Australia next sea-
son. Three men are coming, including George
Simpson, who is in the world’s championship
class as a sprinter, especially over the 220.
The others are Harlowe Robert, a shot putt
and hammer expert from the Leland Stanford
University, rated as one of the best at
the game in America, and Rufus Kaiser, a
Washington University man who is counted
as the most promising miler now in view
in Hooverland. The party leaves ’Frisco
on December 24, and will first proceed to
clean up Maoriland. That done, Australia
will be visited, the stay on this side of the
Pacific lasting a month in all.
* * *
“Blue Chalk”: Following on the steel-
shafted golf club, a steel billiard cue has made
its appearance in Britain, and is being
taken up by several of the leading amateurs
—so far the professionals seem to adhere
to the ash sticks to which they are accus-
tomed. One advantage claimed is that the
waddy is uuwarpable, and that should find
the gadget a ready sale in India aud other
places where climatic conditions are death
on any combination of wood and glue.
Walter Lindrum, by the way, has used one
cue for the last 15 years. It was made in
Melbourne from a piece of long matured ash.
and the champion makes no bones about
saying that he would be lost with any
other. The moment he has finished playing,
the cherished implement goes into a fire-
proof safe until it is needed again.
* * * *
“Reumera”: Maoriland has recently been
confessing its sins in the matter of bowls.
With a population of 1,700,000. it has 325
clubs. The biggest of the lot is Auckland,
which has 219 members, wffiile near by is
Onehunga, with a roll only a few short of
that. This year’s Dominion carnival is to
be held at Auckland, the stamping ground
being the Carlton Club’s green. Australian
players who are game to brave the terrors
of the Tasman are notified that the closing
date for entries is December 6, at Auckland.
“Splash”: The N.S.W. flapper swimmers
have discarded the shop-worn title of
“Lady.” In future the governing body will
be known as the N.S.W. Women’s Amateur
Swimming Association, an example which
should be followed by similar bodies in the
other States. The association is making an
effort to bring over Helene Madison,
who has been sending all the Ameri-
can women’s swimming records flying.
The damsel is as expert at back-stroke
swimming as in the free style, so she
should be a complete show in herself. She
has recently been credited with doing 50
yards in 26 seconds, which sounds rather
too good to be true. Australia’s best time for
the distance is 28 4-ssec. by Duleie Raine,
of Sydney, at the Domain baths last year.


No. 7 ART UNION
DRAWN 15th DECEMBER, 1930.
FIRST PRIZE VALUE £lOOO
Send in your Butts in time for the drawing.
Also send back unsold tickets to
O. BEYERS, Hon. Sec., Box 3446 R, C.P.0., Sydney.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“P.M.”: The aeroplane that flew itself
after the pilot and observer had been killed
(B. 27/8/’3O) was an Australian Flying-
Corps machine, and the occupants were
Lieut. Sandy and Serg. Hughes. The scrap
that terminated fatally for them occurred
over Armentieres. Next day the machine
was found at St. Pol, about 70 miles away,
but by the amount of petrol consumed it 'was
estimated that it had flown about 200 miles
altogether.
“Australscot”: Touching the sobriety of
the Old Country (B. 29/10/’3O), I can only
say that the thing which struck my wife and
myself most when we were there two years
ago was the almost total absence of drun-
kenness in both England and Scotland. We
.saw all parts of the country, and both
ends of London, too, spending our last
Christmas in Ilighgate. The police statistics
for the Christmas holidays in a district of
over a million p -ople (including the Isling-
ton area, in which, by the way, Holloway and
Caledonian roads are) were seven . oases of
drunkenness ! In the House of Commons I
heard Churchill deliver his Budget speech,
wherein ho mentioned that the consumption
of alcohol had decreased to such an extent
since the war that revenue had materially
suffered. This, the Chancellor drily added, was
“an Exchequer embarrassment rather than
a national disaster.”
“Gasper”: I was bending over the well
at a country post office drawing water, when
a good-sized bunch of keys slipped out of my
pocket. Attempts at salvage with pieces of
wire, props, etc., by several of us proved
futile, the well being 30ft. deep with plenty of
silt at the bottom. I was giving up hope when
a visiting mechanic happened along. After
watching us for a few minutes with his
hands in his pockets and his jaws working
on a piece of chewing-gum, he sauntered into
the post office, returning shortly with a
magnet out of a telephone. This he fast-
en ea to the end of a ball of twine and lowered
into the well; presently it came up with
the keys hanging to the end of the magnet.
Of course we had to tell the story to the
publican.
‘‘Court Brief”: The M.L Full Court has
just dismissed an appeal by Thomas Ben-
jamin Slipper, barrister and solicitor of
Apia, who was convicted of publishing a
defamatory libel on the Administrator of
Samoa and sentenced to three months’ im-
prisonment and a fine of 100 guineas.
Slipper, jt seems, wrote a letter to the
THE COMFORTER.
“Yes, he loved me for seven
years and then suddenly
left me.”
“Dear me, how provoking!
But you never can tell—
some men don’t reach the
age of discretion till they’re
quite old.”
Administrator, in the course of which he
stated: “It is regrettable that death and
bloodshed appear to your Excellency to be
of small consequence compared with the
desire, evident and expressed, of absolutism.”
It was contended for the appellant that the
views were those of Slipper’s clients, not
his own, and that the communication xvas
privileged, a solicitor being bound to do the
best he can for his clients and being freed
personally in any criminal charge from any
malice behind his instructions. As against
this it was contended by the Solicitor-General
that privilege was destroyed because neither
Slipper nor his clients had any honest belief
in the truth of the statements. The M.L.
Bench, in a written judgment, found that
this particular lawyer's letter contained
objectionable and insulting (if not seditious)
expressions, and upheld the Apian finding.
Result: Slipper does in liis money and does
out his term.
“Bloggs”: Darwin’s unemployables who
refused to sweep the town gutters the other
day because “the work was dirty and degrad-
ing’ are a traditionally tired lot. And there
isn’t much to be said for the northern port’s
unionist workers, either, as witness this
story. I was leaning over the railing of a
B.l*. passenger ship en route to Singapore
one Sunday watching some men dodging the
job they were on behind a stack of timber.
An English acquaintance who had spent the
trip sneering at Australian working men
joined me. “Look at ’em,” he said, after
mentioning the sky-high wages they were
earning for Sunday work in the Darwin
climate. “No one but Australians would
nave the hide to work such a swindle.” The
skipper happened to be passing. He was a
Scot, and not exactly mad on Australians
either, but he was a , fair-minded man.
“You’re all out,” he said gloomily to my
friend. He then made this devastating
statement: “There isn’t an Australian on
yon _ wharf. They are all Englishmen or
foreigners. The Australians aren’t such
fools as to stay here.”
“Pagoda”: There are few religious orders
which observe the vow of poverty so strictly
as the worshippers of Buddha who inhabit
the high-perched “watts” that lie scattered
promiscuously among the steep hills of Siam.
These gentlemen do not even own suffi-
cient to supply themselves with the
only real necessity of life in Siam
-—food —but descend every evening to
the nearest native village, relying on the
generosity of the villagers to furnish sufficient
for them to keep alive on. They may on
,no account give voice to their requirements.
They present a most imposing spectacle as
the late afternoon sun catches them coming
down in a small, slow-moving, yellow-robed,
shuffling procession, each holding his little
food-bowl. On reaching the village they dis-
perse and pursue their several ways from
doorstep to doorstep. When the itinerary is
completed the shaven-headed brethren, from
youngsters of about 16 to old men of 80, but
all thin, reassemble and bend their solemn
steps back to the shelter of their “watt” in
single file. They move slowly up the black-
ening side of the mountain, like a golden
thread being pulled through a dark cloth, till
finally they vanish into the darkness.
“C.K.C.”; I shared the popular belief that
a human being falling from a great height
is dead before striking the earth or water (B.
,yil/’3O) , until 1 happened to see a British
flying officer pitched out of his ’plane in
France. He fell or was thrown in such a
manner that he developed a slow somersault
motion, and each time that he turned face
downwards a convulsive movement bore wit-
ness to an instinctive effort to assume a feet-
first attitude. H'e made about five turns
before crashing, and it was impossible to
doubt that he was fully conscious until the
last. I note that it is claimed for the man
who fell off Sydney’s Harbor Bridge that he
was able to correct or regulate his spin.
Actually, falling as he did, he would have no
more control over his movement in mid-air
than a bag of flour.
“Wcalsman” : Half a dozen Hobart business
firms were persuaded by a detective agency to
give it a chance to sift the staffs for unde-
sirables. The thief-catching trap works like
this. A customer goes to a counter, buys
an article or two, receives the ordinary sales
docket, and departs with her parcel. ' Then
she remembers that she wants a pair of
gloves or stockings, and returns to the sales-
man with a request for “a pair of the 7s. lid.
ones advertised in this morning’s paper,”
planks down the exact money, grabs hex pur-
chase, with “Oh, never mind the docket,
I’m in a hurry,” and is off. Within half an
hour the full particulars of both transactions
are in the office of the firm’s manager, with
the first docket, If the second docket conies
along, well and good; if it doesn’t it is a
fair presumption that the 7s. lid. has
dropped into the pocket of the salesman.
There are further tests to make sure that
the salesman’s habit of forgetting is incur-
able, and then—retribution. Between 30 and
40 employees of both sexes found them-
selves out of a job and in serious trouble
at the same hour last week—just on 10 per
cent, of the total number of employeees tested
during the past month. Employers are natu-
rally loath to believe that such a proportion
of their hands are habitual thieves; if it
were so the periodical stocktakings would
have disclosed serious shortages long before
this. It is more than likely that the “crime
wave” synchronises with the depression and
the risk of unemployment for many shop-
assistants,
“Morita”: The wildest night of Digger
souveniring I recall was at at Alexandria. It
was organised firstly to brighten up a drab
mess-deck for Christmas afloat, and secondly
to even up scores against the thieving
Gyppos ; and as a result gharry-loads of spoils
went up the ship’s gangway—palms, cafe
ornaments, works of art only the East would
censor, chairs, flags and the sign off a Gyppo
police depot. One article that needed a
gharry to itself was a marble-topped table
with solid iron legs, and the row that arose
over the removal of this put a sudden end
to the raid. After an argument with a
Tommy picket, which unfortunately sided with
the cafe proprietors, a bevy of American
marines waded in and ranged themselves on
our side. It was the fear of picket rein-
forcements that prompted a hefty Yank to
swing a massive chair at the overhead chan-
delier, and in the confusion that followed
the Yanks, the table and ourselves dis-
appeared. We missed the sorting out of the
cafe. debris next morning. We were then
getting our decorations acclimatised to the
pitching of our craft.
NO WOMEN IN HEAVEN.
The Star Boarder: “No woman
gets to Heaven.”
The Talkative Landlady: “You
shouldn’t he so wicked as
to say things like that, Mr.
Blinder.”
Him : “But the Bible proves it.
Read Revelation viii, 1 :
‘There was silence in
Heaven about the space o)
half an hour.’ ”
“T.M.M.”: In France there are taxi-
h'ansoms (B. 22/10/’3O), though I -am not
prepared to say that they were invented lo
save the driver from the hold-ups that are
becoming so frequent in Sydney. When I
was in Paris a few months ago there was
no new model more popular. They look
exactly like a dinkum hansom, except that
there is a bonnet where the horse should be.
Incidentally, fares in France are two francs
a kilo, or about sid. a mile.
“Crammer”: There has been a devil of a
rumpus in Canada owing to the discovery
that certain individuals have been imper-
sonating candidates in the Civil Service
exams, and securing brilliant passes for their
clients. It is not a new form of fraud. I
have heard many stories of the kind in
regard to the Indian Civil Service entrance,
a very stiff exam, which once promised an
assured career to the successful examinee,
though it is doubtful if it is so much
rushed to-day. It used to be said
that there were rogues who earned a
good living at the game, even undertaking
to shove the aspirant through his probation-
ary year of study in Indian languages, though
this I doubt. Similar yarns were current
of entrances to Sandhurst and Woolwich
being made easy for those who knew where
to go and could afford to pay. It may be
all quite untrue, but, having been much
exposed in my time to all ranks of the ser-
vice, I am not so sure.
“Bumpk”: By immemorial usage a vessel
always flies at the fore the flag of the country
to which she is addressed. In the case of
the Discovery that country is Antarctica,
and, as there seems to be some doubt as to
whom the waste belongs to, a plain sheet was
hoisted when she set out on lier latest
voyage.
“Farleigh” : The word “caucus,” so much
heard nowadays in political discussions, is
generally assigned an Indian origin by
dictionary-makers, as the Algonquin or
Chickahominy for “pow-wow.” According
to Webster, the Yankee had adapted the
word to his own uses before Captain Cook
landed in Botany Bay; as early as 1766
there was a “Caucus Club” in Boston, which
met to weigh the claims of candidates for
office and decide whom it should nominate.
I doubt if the word got to England till over
a century later; the first man credited with
employing it, as far as my recollection
serves, was one Schnadhorst, who was Joe
Chamberlain’s election agent at Birmingham
when Joe first began to loom large in the
House of Commons. A great organiser was
Schnadhorst, whose methods made Birming-
ham the safe preserve of Chamberlains and
their adherents for over a generation. But
the Schnadhorst caucuses were pre-election
ones, consisting of the electors, and not the
sort we know. In Australia the word in its
present usage arrived with the first Labor
party.
“Carrick, A. B.”: For a pipe-smoker to
claim that he has burnt a daily average
of four ounces of tobacco is obviously ridi-
culous (B. 29/10/’30).. The heaviest smoker
I ever struck used only a trifle over a pound
a week; he was a Scotch sailmaker who kept
his pipe alight for every minute of his wak-
ing hours except when he was eating, and
always smoked it right out, too, before re-
loading. But the biggest consumer of tobacco
I ever met was a Swedish bos’n who chewed
up a four-ounce plug of Cavendish every
day. What was even more amazing was
that he never spat. It ought to have killed
him, of course, but he and the sailmaker,
though both well up in years, were as strong,
healthy men as one could wish to see.
“Pittacus M.”: “Bridoon” doubts a story
in General Spear’s book of war reve-
lations concerning a meeting between
Generals French and Lanrezac (B. 5/10/’3O).
He needn’t. In Callwell’s “Life and Diaries
of Field-Marshal Sir Henry Wilson’’ appears
the following version of the same episode:—
At Retbel Sir John and his staff met General
Lanrezac, who was in command of the Fifth French
Army, and a number of French officers. Lanrezac knew
no English and Sir John’s French \yas not of a kind
readily intelligible to a Frenchman; the discussion
was therefore carried out mainly through Wilson, as
interpreter. During the colloquy, information was
received by the French side that Germans were
reported as having arrived on the right bank of the
Meuse at Huy. Sir John wanted to know what
they were doing there. Would they cross the river?
He misunderstood the answer and asked again, where-
upon Lanrezac, growing a little impatient, ejaculated,
“Pourquoi sont-ils arrives? Mats pour pecker dans
la riviere!” “What does he say?’’ demanded Sir
John of Wilson. “He says they’re going to cross
the river, sir,” replied Wilson, and the conference
ended with the usual compliments and bowings and
handshakings.
What the French general said, of course,
was the equivalent of “What have they
come for? Just to fish.”


SERVICE SHEER
HOSIERY
$4.
re^tme
\
AN EXTREMELY SERVICEABLE DEEP
SILK WELT WITH PICOT EDGE
TAKES ALL THE SUSPENDER STRAIN
■
H
m
m
1
gm
ms
ill
—■
■ ■
:■
ill
J
w
I
mm
m
'Mrnmmmm
m /
i'i
■
%
B
■
liii
'
■
a
..
.
: . .
I
n
?e\* Patt*
THE FOOT OF THIS BEAUTIFULLY FINE CREATION
BEING SO SERVICEABLY AND SCIENTIFICALLY REIN-
FORCED WILL GIVE EXCELLENT WEAR. ITS FAULTLESS
ANKLE FITTING WILL FIND A READY APPEAL


For the Spring and Summer
Evenings.
MONDAY TO FRIDAY.
DELIGHTFUL SUPPER DANCES.
Commencing at 9 a.m. and
finishing at I a.m.
SUPPER 5/-, including dancing.
Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY NIGHT, LATE NIGHT.
Evening Dress Only.
Special Supper from 9 p.m., 10/6
—dancing till 2 a.m.
JACK WOOD’S POPULAR
AMBASSADOR ORCHESTRA.
Afternoon Tea (
Dansant j
3.30 till 5.30, 2/6
Saturday .. 4/-
’Phone M 4131.
m
/H
&
£
j) WHEN BRECHT
EYES CLANCE/
More precious than the richest gems are a pair.
of healthy, laughing eyes. Be on your guard
against Inflammation and Disease. If the eyes
are overstrained or bloodshot or afflicted with
Sandy Blight, Scaly Eyelids, Granulation, etc.,
treat with ItOSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION
according to directions. This famous Lotion not only
soothes and heals tired and inflamed Eyes, but restores
the natural brightness and strengthens the sight.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION provides a
simple, rational treatment that is safe for people of
all ages.
Every reputable Chemist and Storekeeper sells it.
Under
Royal
Warrant
ITS"
Tom
Kin 6
George V
Vintage 1920.
champagne:
Charles lleitecli
HUMS
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company LimitsJ
SYDNEY.
m
Champacks
Quttksllcidsiecs
Reims
OyMfh
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER.
At six o’clock last Tuesday morning, when
the pigeons in Martin-place were only half-
awake and the sun was just tipping the high
buildings with shafts of light, a small group
of women slipped into Martin-place. .They
were members of the Anzac Fellowship of
Women and of the Soldiers’ Wives and
Mothers’ Association. On the still, warm air
the fragrance of the flowers they carried rose
piercingly; and by a quarter-past six the
white roses and November lilies from the
Anzac Fellowship, the gay little Dorothy
Perkins (as debonair as that deathless leaf-
brown army) and the deep red roses from
the S.W. and M.A., were laid upon the Ceno-
taph, the first of the city’s offerings.
That early ceremony without military
trappings, without hymn or prayers except
silent ones, always seems to this Letter the
most touching of the day.
For the eleven o’clock silence Martin-place
was crowded with men and women, with old
and young. There was no foothold left in
the roadway at all beyond the police bar-
riers ; the pavements were a solid mass, the
steps of the G.P.O. and of the big buildings
opposite were terraces of tightly-wedged
humans. The sun shone hot, and in the quiet
air flags drooped sombrely at half-mast.
Within the barriers the flag-draped platform
formed the base of a square, the other sides
of which were formed by soldiers in khaki,
in Air Force uniform and in the blue and
white of the Navy. In the middle stood the
Cenotaph, three V.C.’s at its base, and near
by the lads from Canterbury High School,
their coats glinting with their fathers’
medals. Slowly wreaths were laid in
position by the Governor, by the repre-
sentatives of the Commonwealth and State
Governments, by former Governor Lord
Beauchamp (rosemary and pansies, liis), by
Maoriland’s Commissioner Schmitt, by Mayor
Marks. One wreath was from those of
H.M.A.S. Sydney who are .“still on deck”;
the Legacy Club’s offering was emblematic
of the immortal flame on the Arc de
Triomphe, and Roseville sent a great Malt-
ese Cross of red roses. Soon the Cenotaph
was a blaze of garden beauty.
How clamorous is the silence even after
12 years, the silence tumultuous with the
unleashed memories of 12, 14, 15 years ago!
Up above, five Air Force ’planes dfummod
through the blue. Next the notes of the
Last Post were trumpeted over the city, and
then despair was drowned in the notes of
hope as “O God, Our Help in Ages Past”
rang out. Finally came the Reveille and
“God Save the King”: and Sydney picked up
the day’s work once more.
Over 900 guests and a high wind made
their State Exes.’ first garden party in Syd-
ney a memorable occasion. The great event
of the afternoon was the investiture of six
members of the St. John Ambulance Associa-
tion with their awards. This was performed
on the verandah in a brisk and efficient
manner by Sir Philip Game, while the guests
stood at gaze on the top lawn, which was, in
the De Chair rule, the tennis court. Mrs.
Alice May Henson, Mrs. Violet Bennett,
Mrs. Annie Middows and Sister Bertha
Parry became officers of St. John, while Mrs.
J. J. Lee was promoted to the sisterhood and
her husband to the brotherhood of the Saint.
Chiffons patterned in beige and brown flut-
tered about her Ex., and Miss Crowdy’s white
chiffons were splashed with blue flower
heads. Mrs. Walter Swinson’s attractive
frocking was complete with amber necklace.
Mrs. Wilfred Fairfax, the Gordon lady and
Jean Oheriton were one of the gayest groups
at the buffet on the verandah. The amiable
Kelso Kings, the medical Storie Dixson
couple, Chief Justice Street and his lady and
the Town Clerk and Mrs. Layton were there.
Papal delegate Cattaneo and Archbishop
Kelly swung their scarlet and amethystine
robes against the summer green of grass and
tree, while the uniforms of Lieut.-Commander
Gifford and Flight-Lieutenant Garnet
Malley, who were the day’s aides, toned in
with the wind-brushed sky.
One of the most important happenings of
last week was the opening of the first public
school for crippled children. This is a
weatherboard building of three class-rooms
and a large verandah in the grounds of the
Royal Alexandra Hospital for Children at
Camperdown. The Rotary Club was respon-
sible for the scheme, and crippled children
attending the hospital for treatment and
massage will now receive a thorough educa-
tion as well. The great-hearted ’bus king,
F. H. Stewart, has overcome the difficulty
of getting the children to and from the hos-
pital.
The Governor, who unfurled the Union
Jack on the new school’s flagpole, gave
special thanks to Knight Henry Braddon and
Padre A. P. Campbell, ex-president of the
Rotarians. Knight Charles Clubbe, great
lover of kiddies and veteran president of
the hospital, greeted the school as the reali-
sation of a dream of many years. The Vice-
reine then planted a tree in front of the
, chool, the opening of which means wider
horizons for crippled and infirm youngsters.
Earl Beauchamp removed his picturesque
personality from our midst last week, and
left a trailing cloud of glory behind. The
State viee-regals were as sorry as anybody
else over his going. “H’e is the most
charming and considerate guest you could
have in your home,” said Sir Philip Game
when Lord Beauchamp was staying at Gov-
ernment House for the spring race meeting.
“He thinks of all sorts of delightful unex-
pected things to do for his hosts. The only
thing I might complain of is that he is now
frequeuting all the jolly unconventional
places he couldn’t go to when he was Gov-
ernor. In the morning he comes and tan-
talises me with a recital of the night-before’s
wrestling matches, and similar events that hi'
can go to, but I can’t.” The Earl, it appears,
has a simple code in life. When he meets
a person and likes him, he makes him a
friend. Many people treat a caricaturist
like a pickpocket, but when Bulletin’s
Frith went around to distort the Grecian
nose, the dimpled chin and the flashing eye
into something that looked like an over-
grown cherub, the Earl delighted, and
made him into a Commander of the Bath —
a surfing companion, anyway. He re-
newed old friendships and made fresh ones.
He had the time of his life. He liked our
girls, our beaches, our art. He is a pro-
found believer in Australia and its future.
Kirribilli House, the scene of many a
party when it was owned by genial Tom
Laurie, was given over to the auctioneer and
the bargain-hunter last week. A strange
thing to see on that gate was the sign “Child-
ren Not Admitted.” for in the late Tom
Laurie’s time no visitors were more welcome
in that bachelor home. Tom Laurie’s kiddies’
parties are still remembered.
The old white house with its gable win-
dows has probably an unsurpassed view of
the harbor. From its verandahs and draw-
ing-room windows you look right down to-
wards the Heads. Cremorne Point sprawls
like a lizard on the lotus-like blue, and Fort
Denison is an entrancing toy. Every win-
dow has its distinctive glimpse, and from
the one on the landing at the head of
the stairs the great arch of the bridge now
looms so near that you feel you might touch
it. Crowds tramped through the rooms last
Wednesday and Thursday, hunting for
antiques, forgetful that the place had been
furnished in Lord Forster’s reign as quarters
for aides and such-like. When the G.-G.
was in residence it served as a Sydney home
for. his daughter, Mrs. Pitt Rivers, and her
husband, who was the G.-G.’s aide.
Dozens of the curious wandered over from
the city in the belief that they w r ere to view
Admiralty House. Two girls were quite un-
interested when they learned they were not
in the former G.-G.’s home. An elderly man
sitting in an upholstered chair put them
right. “Oh, you mean it was the servants’
quarters?” one queried. “It was the staff
quarters,” repeated the man; “aides and
secretaries aren’t servants.” “They are,”
was the reply. “They’re Government ser-
vants.”
The lady with the smooth hair and the
large eyes in this Howard Harris picture is
Mrs. E. Syd-
ney Morris,
wife of the
Di r c ctor of
Maternal and
Ha by Welfare.
Mrs. Morris
takes a keen
interest in the
city’s philan-
thropic move-
ments, and was
a member of
the committee
which made
the Ashes Bali
one of the
triumphs of
last week.
The ball served
the double
purpose of a
welcome to the
Austral ian
Eleven and a
money-raiser for the Tressillian Homes.
Six members of the Team dropped in
about ten o'clock, Bradman, Kippax, Fair-
fax, Oldfield, McCabe and Jackson, and they
looked positively shy as the crow 7 d, 900
strong, eddied around them, threatening to
engulf them before they reached the official
dais. Here sat the State Viee-regals, ball
president Mayoress Hilda Marks and Dr.
Clubbe’s lady. Here, too, was Lord Beau-
champ, as vigorous an applauder as any
when the Governor handed each cricketer
and Tom Howard (the team’s treasurer) a
morocco-bound address of welcome. The
indefatigable Josephine Marks and Mrs.
Stanley Patrick had much to do with the
night’s success.
Last week the English-Speaking Union
went into its new home—a suite on the top
floor of Farmer’s. This opens on to the
roof garden, and is complete with lounge
and reception rooms. Surgeon MacCormick’s
lady was the afternoon’s hostess, and against
her black georgettes her presentation basket
of blue lupins and yellow roses made a vivid
splash. Lady Game, who officially unbarred
the door, wore unobtrusive beige georgettes,
and carried spears of crimson gladioli.
Vividly blue and black was the raiment of
American Consul Tredwell’s wife. Mrs.
Arthur Scrivener and Miss Hollander-Moore
were others of the well-dressed at this roof-
garden party. Knight Henry Braddon acted
as official receiver, and welcomed, among
other notables, Professor Duniway, of Minne-
sota University.
May, the other half of the nice Henry
twins, was married last week, at St. Mark’s,
Darling Point, to Lieutenant James Sanders,
ELN. Sister June (Mrs. E. G. Boyd) was
matron of .honor, and brought honey- and
rose-printed chiffons to follow the bride’s
blonde laces and lace straw hat. Wedding
lunch at the Australia, honeymoon at Palm
Beach, and future address Flinders (Vic.),
where Lieutenant Sanders is on loan to the
Naval Depot.
This is Carmel Nyhan, J.P., whose speech
on “The Day We Celebrate” was a feature of
the Eight-hour Day celebrations. She
is an active member of the Women’s Central
Organising Committee of the Australian
Labor Party,
and at one
time was
assistant sec-
retary of the
c o m m i ttee ;
owing to her
many other
executive posi-
tions she was
unable to
accept office
again. As
organiser of
the Shop
A s s i s tants’
U n ion sh e
loses no oppor-
tunity of im-
proving condi-
tions for shop
an d factory
workers, and
at the present
time is devot-
ing attention to badly-ventilated basements.
Miss Nyhan is probably one of the busiest
women in Sydney. She is the first of her
sex to sit on the executive of the Trades
Hall and Literary Institute, as well as the
management committee of the Eight Hour
committee. She also finds time to represent
woman on the Confectioners’ Board.
Breaking away from a 16-year-old tradi-
tion, the nurses of St. Vincent’s weren’t at
home for their yearly at-home last week.
They left their own fastness in the hospital
grounds, where the entertainment has taken
the form of a programme of music and
humorous sketches by the nurses and junior
medicals, and hied them to the Ambassadors
in vivid and becoming array. Mrs. John
McKelvey, whose surgeon husband was the
patron of the organising committee, received
the guests in the Palm Court, aided by a
small company of nurses disguised as com-
mittee members in jocund chiffonry. Mrs.
McKelvey was vivid in rose-red lace and
chiffon frocking, moored by diamente
shoulder-straps. In a party of over 600 who
were playing bridge or dancing, notable
froc-kers were Maybelle Markell, in burgundy
satins ; Winsome Watt, in graceful sea-blue
chiffons; and Lorraine Stenning, in del-
pliinium-blue draperies.
The Vagabonds are staging one of their
jolly shows on November 24 in aid of the
funds of the Clerical Women War Workers.
This splendid little group, formed in the
early war days, still continues its good work
among distressed soldiers; this year 30 men
were provided with complete outfits to help
them in the search for employment. Now the
funds are at low tide, and the Christmas
party to Hut 14, Prince of Wales Hospital,
simply must be as good as ever. Cheques
to A. M. Frank, 33 Spruson-street, Neutral
Bay.
The 51st Battery had a reunion last week
in the Blinded Soldiers’ Cafe, Soldier
songs shattered the stilly night air in
Pitt-street, but that sound was nothing to
the roar of approval which greeted the
quartermaster-sergeant when he blew his
whistle, produced a bottle and a fuse cover,
and ordered the company to line up for
their ration of rum.
There is joy among the members of the
United Association in that their active
president, Mrs. Kenneth Street, is back with
them. She has held pow-wow with leading
Women’s Righters in America, England and
Europe, and at the welcome-home dinner
given by the association last week she told
of the siege for equal citizenship being car-
ried on by them. That fluent speaker Mrs.
Albert Littlejohn was in the chair, and Miss
Isabel Crowd.v was a guest of honor.
Another ghost has joined the company on
The Bulletin stairs. She’s a little thin
ghost in rusty black and an old-fashioned
bonnet, under which the bright eyes once
peered anxiously for the genius she mothered.
She was Mrs. I. A. Byers, who died last
week, aged 82, and who for the last part of
Henry. Lawson’s life was his housekeeper
and friend. Often she would wait, sitting.
5n the bench at the foot of the stairs while
Henry would be in the upper part of the
premises. Sometimes she would mount the
stairs, asking if Henry had called, and
if he wasn’t there she would go briskly out
into the warm sunshine, or into the cold west-
erly, • looking for the poet, w'ho was towards
the end pathetically deaf and feeble-looking.
Mrs. Byers was a native of the Hawkesbury,
and was a woman of wide reading and some
literary attainments. She died at the home
of her sister in Willoughby, and this good
friend and admirer of genius is buried in the
Northern Suburbs cemetery.
Friday night’s performance of “La Double
Passion” by members of the Alliance Fran-
caise brought an overflow audience to the
Playbox Theatre. Sir Philip and Lady Game
with small daughter Rosemary were front-
seaters, and were received by France’s Con-
sul-General Nettement and liis attractive
wife. Consul-General for Belgium, Henri
Segaert, as usual, not only produced the play,
but was a very important member of the
cast. 11 is smiling wife was one of the out-
size audience.
Mrs. C. G. Berge’s All-Australian Cabaret
and Bridge at David .Jones’s promises to put
a different curl into the afternoon of Novem-
ber 25. Lady Game, Mayoress Hilda Marks
and Don Bradman are among the notables
who will be present. The party is to help
the Balmain and District Hospital, where
Dr. Berge is the eye specialist. The prize
list is tremendously long, and every prize is
an article manufactured in Australia. In
addition a guinea prize is offered for a four-
line limerick of Australian sentiment, and
two guineas for a dancing competition.
An interesting visitor who climbed thy
stairs last week was that Mrs. Francis
from North Queensland who, over the name
of “Black Bonnet,” has been writing beau-
tiful verse for The Bulletin for over 22
years. At that date she arrived in Aus-
tralia fresh from England with three baby
daughters, and made her home at Bloom-
field, on the Bloomfield River. There was
then only one other white woman in a dis-
trict that abounded in abos., snakes, wild
pigs, crocodiles and cassowaries, and Mrs.
Francis now confesses that for the first year
she didn’t have one good night’s sleep, for
she and her children were mostly alone, while
her husband and brother were busy mining
at China Camp, miles away in the hills.
Her life in those days must have seemed
to her like a wild story of adventure. She
was in two cyclones—to hear her tell of
them is as exciting as reading “High Wind
in Jamaica.” She was caught in floods;
she learned to step warily at night for fear
of snakes of every hue in passage-ways. She
tells of a yellow cat that not only killed
but ate snakes, and having a due regard-for
color effect preferred them black. Some-
times in the scrub the cassowaries, black-
plumed and red-headed, stood at gaze while
ships with’ swelling white sails made up the
Bloomfield River. , They came to unload pro-
visions from Cooktown for the camp in the
hills and to take back a cargo of tin. Bloom-
field had been a settlement around the first
sugar mills in the North, but when the
Francis family arrived the mills had gone
and cane-growing had been temporarily aban-
doned. Another task for this plucky pioneer
was the education of her three girls. She
noc only did it, but made Bulletin poets
of the lot of them. Youngest-girl Christabcl,
a Titian-haired beauty, is on the staff of the
“Cairns Post.”
To Sydney last week from Wagga came
Mr. and Mrs. Leslie Haylen. He is a jour-
nalist and author of “Two Minutes’ Silence ”
a war play of dramatic intensity. There is
every hope that it may soon be produced by
one of the big firms.
Oliver Noel Gillespie, the collector of the
New Zealand Book of Short Stories, pub-
lished by Dent, is holiday-making in Sydney,
and reports that the book is selling even
better in this continent than in Maoriland.
Which only goes to prove there’s nothing
parochial about your Australian reader and
buyer of books.
Lillian Mitchell, one of Sydney’s well-
known singers, is beginning to make herself
known as a composer. The latest addition
to ner compositions are three songs, published
under - oue cover by Palings: “Gather
Ye Rosebuds,” “My Love for You”
and “Serenade.” Her entrance into com-
position was due to the advice of the
late Dr. McCarthy, and since then she has
had a number of songs published. The
soprano studied under Augustus Juncker,
who brought her out at the Sydney Town
Hall; at her debut she had a tremendous
audience and splendid press notices. The
late Ada Crossley was among her admirers.


Gold Assay Shows
1290 z. to the Ton.
THE SOUTH COAST YALWAI GOLD REEFS LTD.
Near Nowra, N.S.W.
A sample of quartz was submitted to the Electrolytic Smelters and
Refining Co. of Aus., Ltd., Port Kembla, by Mr. James Smith, of
Ford and Smith, Wollongong, and last Thursday he received a
report from Mr. F. H. Rickelman, general superintendent, stating
that the assay yielded, Gold, 1290 z. 23dwt. per ton; Silver, 20oz.
6dwt. per ton. This sample was taken from the South Coast
(Yalwal) Gold Reefs, Ltd., main drive in the presence of Mr. Thos.
F. Williams, solicitor, and others of Wollongong. Reporting on
these properties in 1914, Mr. Ernst W. Spencer, M.1.M.M., late
general manager of the Consolidated Gold Fields of N.Z., said
some of the best crushings from Yalwal'were If tons for 7500 z.,
4 tons for 1 6600 z. and 2 tons for 14870 z. and 500 tons average
30oz. to the ton. These are vouched for by the Mines Department.
Altogether, between £40,000 and £50,000 worth of gold was won
from these properties from a few hundred tons of ore. It is only
natural this assay has created a gr.eat deal of excitement on the
Coast. In the two previous issues of this paper the South Coast
(Yalwal) Gold Reefs, Ltd., was offering shares for sale to the public.
The company wishes to notify all those who wrote for particulars
of the mine that they have an opportunity to apply at once for
shares, as there are a limited number available to readers. Be sure
and mention in your application “The Bulletin.” The shares are
1 /- each, payable 3d. on application, 3d. on allotment, and two one-
monthly calls of 3d. each (if necessary). The capital of the
company is £20,000 divided into 400,000 shares of 1/- each. In-
cluded on the Board of Directors is Mr. William H. Wesley, consult-
ing mining engineer and metallurgist, late Mt. Lyell, Tasmania,
Mount Morgan, Queensland. If the number of shares allotted be
less than the number applied for, the surplus money will be credited
in reduction of the moneys payable on allotment. The company’s
shares will be listed on the Stock Exchanges in due course.
Address all letters and telegrams to the Sydney Selling Brokers,
Scott-Delamar,
258 George Street, Sydney. ’Phone 85644.
DO YOU WANT TO ENTER A PROFESSION?
#1
We can set you on the road to better money and an assured profession in life
which offers good opportunities if you have any ability and are persevering.
Our tuition gives opportunity to students not to be found elsewhere. Write
for our booklet as to our positions, salaries and fees to-day. Start your new
career NOW.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
m
i
-i
“80-PEEP” PRINT
is obtainable in a
large number of
styles, designs and
colorings. SOLD
BY LEADING
DRAPERS AND
STORES.
BOVE are seen three
of the smartly cheerful
designs now produced in
“80-PEEP” PRINT—a
hard-wearing and econo-
mical fabric for children’s
play suits, frocks and over-
alls. Close textured and
fast colored, “80-PEEP”
PRINT is a great help in
ensuring regular tidiness,
and washes most easily.
‘C/feCPeepCprint
' Lo tsa*~forChildrens Wear. °
Produced by the makers of “Tricoline ” —
the equal to silk.
If any difficulty in obtaining, please write :
MR. RANDELL,
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street, Sydney.
T
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
CHEAP FOREIGN SUGAR
Would It Profit Australia to Import It?
The Freetrade enemies of the Queensland
Sugar Industry have broadcasted the Com-
monwealth with the statement that Australia
could save £7,000,000 per annum by can-
celling the Sugar Embargo and importing
Java sugar to replace the Queensland
product. The statement has a plausible
ring, because Java sugar is just now selling
at under the cost of production by coolie
labor. It is, nevertheless, a falsehood. But
let us test it out. Let us submit it to a
searching analysis and ascertain if AUS-
TRALIA AS A NATION would really profit
or lose by adopting the Freetrade policy
regarding sugar.
In the first place it is obvious that in
order to import the amount of foreign sugar
neded for consumption here we would have
to send out of the country gold or goods to
the value of about £3,400,000 per annum to
pay for it.
It is equally obvious that the immediate
effect of this importation would be to wipe
out the Queensland industry.
As the Queensland industry at present
produces an excess above Australia’s sugar
requirements, and markets the surplus in
England for approximately £2,000,000 per
annum, this item, would also be eliminated.
It is clear, therefore, that the Common-
wealth, by importing its sugar requirements,
would not only have to send abroad
£3,400,000 per annum to pay for the sugar,
but would also lose a foreign credit of
£2,000,000 that is now annually created by
the Queensland industry.
The nation’s foreign sugar bill would,
therefore, amount to £5,400,000 per annum at
least, and since this bill would have to be
liquidated abroad, the settlement would
necessarily involve exporting gold or goods
to a like value.
The Australian nation is in great financial
trouble to-day because of its inability to
meet its overseas interest and other obliga-
tions by exporting the gold or goods required
to meet those obligations. That is why our
exchange is so adverse at the present time,
and that is ichy Australian citizens who
require to send money abroad have to pay a
charge of about 7% per cent, for the accom-
modation. Clearly, if we had to obtain the
sugar we need from abroad—involving
thereby, as we have seen, a brand-new annual
foreign obligation of £5,Ji00,000 —our finan-
cial situation in relation to the outer world
would be that much worse off than at present,
and the exchange position also would be
seriously aggravated.
Now let us examine the effect of import-
ing sugar on our domestic finances.
The Queensland industry, under the em-
bargo, annually produces new wealth and
purchasing power amounting to approxi-
mately £10,000,000 per annum.
It build's up a foreign credit, by selling its
surplus production overseas of £2,000,000
per annum, thus assisting the nation, to
that extent, to meet the Commonwealth’s
external obligations.
It supports 120,000 people. It employs
30,000 white Australian workers. It dis-
tributes every year £6,000,000 in wages. It
uses a capital of £50,000,000.
In present circumstances those benefits
circulate throughout the entire economic
structure of the Commonwealth, and are
shared by the whole people of Australia.
The wealth created by Queensland sugar in
tropical Australia is largely expended in the
purchase of goods and commodities produced
in the southern States, in the maintenance
of shipping and transport services, and in a
thousand . other ways, and by a thousand
channels it reaches and serves every member
of the Australian community. FOR IT
IS AUSTRALIAN WEALTH, CREATED
IN AUSTRALIA, CONSERVED IN
AUSTRALIA, CIRCULATED IN AUS-
TRALIA AND RETAINED FOR EVER
IN . AUSTRALIA. While we satisfy our
national sugar needs by our own exertions,
as we do now, WE HAVE OUR EXCEL-
LENT SUGAR AND WE HAVE OUR
MONEY, TOO..
Were we . to import our sugar needs, we
would certainly get an inferior foreign sugar,
but who would have our money ?
WHAT HAVE THE BLACK COOLIE
LABORERS OF JAVA DONE FOR US
THAT WE SHOULD ELECT TO SUP-
PORT THEM IN PREFERENCE TO OUR
OWN WHITE FELLOW CITIZENS?
And make no mistake about it! the first
inevitable result of adopting a Freetrade
sugar policy would be to forthwith doom
30,000 white Australian workers to join the
already terribly overcrowded army of the
unemployed. And what next? Let us tabu-
late the results. We have seen the first
result.
No. 2 would be: —Australian capital now
used in the Queensland Sugar Industry,
amounting to £50,000,000, would be almost
entirely destroyed.
No. 3: —£10,000,000 worth of purchasing
power, now annually produced in Queensland,
would vanish, and would involve in its dis-
appearance the economic stability of every
manufacturer and producer in the southern
States of Australia who now trades with the
people of Queensland.
No. /+: —The Queensland Government
would be deprived of a large revenue on
which it now depends.
No. s.v—The Commonwealth Government
would also lose much of the revenue now
derived from Queensland taxpayers.
No. 6: —-The purchase abroad of 340,000
tons of foreign sugar to supply Australia’s
needs would absorb more than one-third of the
present world’s surplus stocks, the existence
of which, in store, has reduced the price of
sugar to the lowest level yet recorded in the
economic history of civilisation. The inevit-
able effect would be to raise world sugar
prices to a higher plane and thereby penalise
the Australian consumer, who in years to
come, when normal conditions are restored,
would be remorselessly exploited by foreign
producers and would then have no local sugar
industry to aid him.
No. 7: —The northern littoral of Queens-
land would soon be depopulated, and tropical
Australia, lacking its present stalwart garri-
son of white defenders, would be helpless to
resist invasion. In short, our cherished
White Australia policy, destituted of validity,
would he flung to the wolves of chance.
THE SUMMING UP.
To sum the matter up, the Freetrade sugar
policy, instead of saving Australia £7,000,000
a year, would cost the nation over £15,400*000
per annum, for it would destroy £10,000,000
of new wealth that is now created by the
Queensland industry and circulated every
year within the Commonwealth, and it would
compel Australia to find £5,400,000 per
annum, and export gold or goods to that
value in order to import the sugar needed by
the people.
It would cast 30,000 white Australian
workers into the miseries of unemployment.
It would absolutely ruin 8000 individual
sugar growers and obliterate a capital invest-
ment of £50,000,000.
It would enormously aggravate the diffi-
culties that now beset national finance.
It would impoverish Queensland without
benefiting any other State.
It would rob the manufacturers and pro-
ducers of the southern States of Australia
of a market in Queensland now worth to
them many millions sterling per annum.
It would denude tropical Australia of
population; and, finally, it would make our
White Australia policy an empty mockery
in the eyes of mankind.
And what would the Commonwealth gain?
It would gain nothing, absolutely nothing,
beyond the purely temporary and evanescent
advantage of a phantom boon of cheapness.
For this illusory advantage could only last
until the existing world surplus of sugar
is absorbed and normal conditions are
restored. It is possible, although not prob-
able, that present world sugar conditions may
last another year—even two. And what
then? Does any Freetrader imagine that
the producers of foreign black-grown sugar
would continue to supply Australia with
cheap sugar an hour longer than they are
compelled ?
SOME STRIKING FACTS.
(1) The British Government so fully
realises the need of indemnifying the United
Kingdom from the danger of foreign exploita-
tion when the pl'ice of sugar is high that
it supports the British beet-sugar industry
with a direct annual subsidy of £5,500,000
per annum.
(2) The average price of Foreign Raw
Sugar in 1920 was £57 per ton ; in 1923, £25
per ton; in 1924, £22 per ton. It declined
to £l4 in 1927, but not until the present
year did it fall sensibly below the average
cost of production by black labor. The
price of Foreign Raw Sugar to-day is lower
than at any previous time in the world’s
history, and, in the words of Lord Olivier
(Chairman of the West Indies Sugar Com-
mission, 29th April, 1930), it is “ the price
of a bankrupt stock.” To quote Lord Olivier
again:— ‘‘World prices must rise again,”
a/nd in all probability sooner than many
people suppose. And his reason is :— ‘‘No-
where in the world can sugar be made at
the present price. It means not only that
factories are increasing their indebtedness,
but planters are also working at a loss.”
(3) The British Royal Commission above
referred to, after a careful examination of
factory and planting costs, reported that
the average cost of producing sugar by black
labor was £ll 17s. 6d. per ton, and that the
average loss, even after receiving the bene-
fit of the English preferential duty of £4
per ton, was more than £2 per ton. — Advt.
Missing Friends.
Re H. eTmUßßAY—Deceased.
TV/ILL anyone knowing the whereabouts
w of WILLIAM HENRY MURRAY (son
of William Henry Murray and Harriet
Emily Taylor), please communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Hobart, Tasmania.
PILLS
Those twinges in legs, knees and feet, that
nagging backache and headache, those puffy
eyes—they spell “ u-r-i-c a-c-i-d” 1 Get the
acid out by taking Harrison’s Pills. Relief
follows immediately. Any Chemists, 2/-,
3/- or 5/-. Quick > ene,it certain (
"RemowtKe 6cuit& /"
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to knoa\


Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN AN AUTOMATIC
STOCK COUNTER FOR CONTROLLING
PAPER CUP STACKING MECHANISM.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 20850/24 is prepared to negotiate for
the sale of its rights in the above, or for
the granting of a license to make, use and
vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Asbestos House, York and
Barrack Streets, Sydney. (Box 2133 L,
G.P.0., Sydney.)
APPARATUS FOR THE SURFACE
SMOOTHING OR FINISHING OF
WOODWORK.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 4920/26 is prepared to negotiate for
the sale of his rights in the above, or for
the granting of a license to make, use and
vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Asbestos House, York and
Barrack Streets, Sydney. (Box 2133 L,
G.P.0., Sydney.)
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN COIN-SELECTING
DEVICE.
HTHE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 4547/26 is prepared to negotiate for
the sale of its rights in the above, or for
the granting of a license to make, use and
vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Asbestos House, York and
Barrack Streets, Sydney. (Box 2133 L,
G.P.0., Sydney.)
IMPROVEMENTS IN A CUP-FORMING
MACHINE, WITH STACKING ATTACH-
MENT.
’"THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 20990/24 is prepared to negotiate for
the sale of its rights in the above, or for
the granting of a license to make, use and
vend the invention within the Common-
wealth. of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Asbestos House. York and
Barrack Streets, Sydney. (Box 2133 L,
G.P.0., Sydney.)
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
214 George Street, Sydney.
HECTOR BOLITHO’S
New Novel.
THE FLAME ON
ETHIRDOVA,
By Hector Bolitho.
A mediaeval romance. Alive and exciting.
There is good writing and vivid description.
But it is more than merely a well-written
book, for the author has contrived a story of
great spiritual beauty and the characters seem
real. Readers who enjoyed “The Bridge of San
Luis Key” will like this book.
THE FLAME ON
ETHIRDOVA,
At all Libraries and Booksellers.
6/6 net.
London:
R. COBDEN SANDERSON, LTD.,
Montague Street, W.C.I.
Australian Agents:
T. C. LOTHIAN PTY., LTD.,
Melbourne.
Melbourne
Chatter
Tlie weather being uncertain on Satur-
day morning most feminine racegoers betook
themselves to Caulfield in ensembles and
tailored costumes. When it was too late
to revise the dressing scheme the weather
decided to behave itself, and the sun shone
brightly. Though attendances at race meet-
ings have fallen off considerably of late, the
V. has no reason to sigh very loudly.
Mayoress Luxton, who has been spending
much of her time electioneering, her husband
being a candidate for the Caulfield seat, was
accompanied by Mrs. U. J. Nicholas and
had afternoon tea with Mrs. Merson Cooper.
Also in the committee ladies’ tea rendezvous
were the chairman’s wife, Mrs. Ben Chaffey,
whose guests included Mrs. Rogers Thom
son and daughter Kathleen; Mrs. Clive
Leonard, in a smart suit of natural kasha;
and Mrs. Leslie Falkiner, in chiffon, figured
in green, white and black beneath a black
coat. Mrs. lan Hayward, in navy blue with a
red hat, and Mrs. Sprigg were visitors from
Adelaide. Esme Alice, Mr. and Mrs. Fred
Alcock and Mrs. C. M. Stodart were among
the patrollers of the lawn.
Though the Williamstown Racing Club’s
meeting was held on a work-day, there was
a fairly large crowd. The sun shone brightly
and there was just breeze enough to bring
a tang of the sea, which, vividly blue on
such a day as this, makes a marine back-
ground for the course. Lawns looked their
best, and rockeries and beds were gay with
roses, pansies and gorgeous yellow daisies.
The improving hand of secretary J. F.
Nagle was noticeable in the clearing of the
marsh about the flat where the waters flow
in from the sea. Decorative islands and a
bridge or two have arisen there. The floral
printings in the committee tea-rooms were
all pink and blue, done in baskets of carna-
tions and butterfly delphiniums.
Mayoress Luxton, who sported a nutmeg-
brown georgette gown and ballibuntal straw
hat was accompanied by Mrs. U. J.
Nicholas. The Mayoress of Williamstown,
Mrs. George Paine, was there in cornflower-
blue gown and millinery. Brown was the
favorite hue among fair patrons. Mrs.
W. P. Mein wore crepe de Chine of deep
amber tint, splashed with brown, and a
straw hat of a darker hue. Mrs. Merson
Cooper wore the popular color in mace tone.
Mrs. D. ,P. Mackey, Mrs. Rogers Thomson,
Mrs. Percy Dobson, Nancy Murdoch, Mrs.
Russell Gabb and Mrs. W. J. Wearne were
others w T ho endeavored to disapprove the
saying that “Williamstown is the punters’
grave.” Mrs. J. F. Mackenzie was one of
the few who chose flowered chiffon. Her
black gown, scattered with pink and dull
green blossoms, had flounces that became a
fringe at the edge.
Armistice Day was celebrated by a city
beflagged, and the usual two-minutes’ silence.
Collectors sold poppy badges, and on the
steps of Parliament House thousands of
people congregated for a memorial service. A
guard of honor provided by the Air Force
was inspected by Lieut.-Governor Irvine.
The band struck up the hymn “All People
That on Earth Do Dwell” and the crowd
joined in. Then the busy world ceased its
clamor while the “Last Post” was sounded.
Lady Somers attended a service at Scotch
College, where she unveiled six stained-
glass windows in the Memorial Hall, erected
to the memory of old boys who gave their
lives for their country.
One of the most impressive ceremonies of
Armistice Day in Melbourne occurred at the
weekly luncheon of the Legacy Club,_ the
Digger organisation which' has pledged itself
to look after the orphans of dead soldiers.
G. S. Browne, principal of the Teachers’
Training College, delivered the Armistice
Day address, and John Monash, who was the
guest of honor, probably thought he was
going to hear the usual platitudes about
peace. Instead Browne gave an account of
the tenth anniversary celebration of the day
at the Albert Hall, London, at which he was
present. Ilis description developed into a
masterpiece of word painting by a natural
orator. Then the luncheon-room resounded
with the strains of the Last Post, played
by 50 trumpeters representing all the regi-
ments engaged in the World War, followed
by the Reveille, sounded by the King's
Heralds. These were supplied from gramo-
phone records of the Albert Hall ceremony
which Browne brought back with him from
London.
Archbishop Head and his wife gave their
first garden party at Bishopscourt on Thurs-
day. Visitors were so many that they
formed a queue down Clarendon-street, which
borders on the Fitzroy Gardens. The weather
was bitterly cold, with showers. Clerics
from all parts of the diocese, with their
womenfolk, formed about three-fourths of
the guests; the Church of England grammar
schools and Uni. colleges sent full represen-
tation, and the .rest were parishioners. Lady
Somers wore beneath a cedar-brown coat a
fancy figured georgette frock, her hat being
brown felt. Lieut.-Governor Irvine attended
with his lady, who was in sapphire-blue with
a navy and silver adornment on her straw hat.
A boy scouts’ band provided a screen
for chatter. Tea was spread in _ a
marquee, the v.-r, party and a few special
guests being entertained in the drawing-
room, which was decorated with delphiniums.
Though most of the people knew the Arch-
bishop, it was their first meeting with his
wife. Taking their stand under the big
white gum-tree, the host and hostess clasped
hands with every guest. Mrs. Head had
a short white fur coat over a chiffon frock
that mingled black, blue, green and fawn.
Mrs. Law’s black satin gown was worn with
a long cape wrap edged with mole. Mrs.
Harry Emmerton showed a grey and white
chiffon gown beneath a black coat collared
with broad tail. The Peacock lady came
w T ith Mrs. Boyd Flaxman. The Lud Mayor
was there with Mrs. Luxton, she in a mink
coat and a straw hat.
About Anderson-street, South Yarra, on Fri-
day and Saturday, dress fashions rolled back
to the period when Queen Victoria was a bride.
A Cobb and Co. coach with four horses
trotted around the suburb with a cargo of
fair maidens in frilled frocks and poke-
bonnets. This was one of the features of
an Early Melbourne Fete at Merton ll'all C.
of E. Girls’ Grammar School. The weather
wasn’t kind, but hundreds of scholars came
forth in sprigged muslin and organdie gowns,
very long and in some cases hooped, with
an elaborate display of white pantalettes.
Millinery ran to coal-scuttle straw bonnets
giddily trimmed with ostrich plumes, or to
flat little hats flower-decked above and below,
and rakishly stuck on piled-up curls. Fichus
and scarves were in the picture, too. Many
of the dresses worn had a family history.
Miss Dougharty, of the teaching staff, wore
one such gown of mole-brown silken fabric
with a beige pink bonnet and a wee
crochet parasol. A scholar, Lois Gotch.
wore her great-aunt’s cream silk gown; and
another miss sported a striped cotton frock
with full sleeves and black lace fichu that
dated back to 1802. A princess robe of silk
with blurred mauve and pink roses had seen
service GO years ago.
There was an official opening on both
days, Lady Somers launching the second
edition, and Mayoress Luxton, who is presi-
dent of the Old Girls’ Association, the first.
Jean Mitchell stepped forth on each occasion
with a welcoming posy. Splendidly stocked
stalls were quartered in a huge marquee,
where everything from cooked ham and
Christmas cakes to exquisite Indian lace
mats, handkerchiefs and shawls could be
purchased. Flowers and pot plants made a
brave showing. There was a midget golf
tournament and other outdoor attractions.
Miss Gilman Jones, the headmistress, gave
greeting the first day to Mrs. Head. Proceeds
of the fete will go to the building extension
fund of the school.
This is Adeline Strain, a Melbourne girl,
who recently won first honors as an afi-
round enter-
tainer in the
South - street
competitions at
Ballarat. She
beat a bevy of
aspirants from
this and other
States, and
in making the
award the
judge referred
to her as a
finished artist
whose perform-
a n c e was
marked with
the greatest of
refinement.
Miss Strain,
who is an ac-
complished act-
ress, played
the role of
Mrs. Chiches-
ter in the Catholic Theatre Guild’s perform-
ance of “Peg o’ My Heart” a few days ago.
She teaches verse-speaking and dramatic art.
At the V.A.T.C. races on Saturday Betty
Fairbairn sported a new ring, a symbol of a
wedding to come. The lucky man is Lionel,
eldest son of the T. S. Armstrongs, of Mar-
nong, Mickleham. The marriage, when it
comes off, will join two of the great land-
holding families of the State. Miss Fair-
bairn is the second daughter of the late Mr.
and Mrs. Charles Fairbairn. She spends a
good part of her time in running over to
England, where now resides her sister, the
wife of Brigadier-General Wheatley.
Madame Alice Orff-Solscher, who sang
Wagnerian for ns at the Town Hall
on Saturday night, is unlike any other opera-
tic artist this Chatterer has seen or heard
of. Except that she’s a little young for the
job she looks like the principal of a girls'
college—tall, well-built and with dark hair
combed back in an Eton crop. She walks
gracefully. Her gown of lupin-blue satin
was worn without jewels, real or brum. She
sang—in German —“Elizabeth’s Prayer” from
“Tannhauser,” and bits from “The Flying
Dutchman” and “The Valkyrie.” She was
given a cordial reception and there were lots
of garden stuff for her. Among the listeners
were medico-knight James Barrett and his
lady, Robert Best and his lady, Prof. E.
Scott and his wife, Mrs. Harry Emmerton
and, of course, Thomas Brentnall, who never
misses a good concert.
This is a
Pegg Clarke
picture of the
II on. Eliza-
be t h Somers
Cocks, only
chick of Lord
and Lady
Somers. She
was one of the
living pictures
at the Arts
and Crafts
Society’s en-
t e r tainment,
posing for
Millais’s pic-
ture, “H e r
First Ser-
mon,” and is
shown here in
the quaint mil-
-lin e r y and
caped frock of
early-Victorian
mode which she wore.
In the revival of “The Cingalee,” which
started at the Royal on Saturday night,
Gwyneth LaScollcs, as the dusky maiden
Nanoya, swathes herself sometimes in pale
green, sometimes in blue, and sometimes in
gold-bordered white draperies. Lilian Crisp,
as Lady Patricia Vereker, wears the lengthy
chiffons and the water-waved coiffure of to-
day. .Tosie Melville, as Peggy Sabine, is a
graceful figure set in a froth of white tulle
frills topped with a pale green jacket. On
the opening night there was an unrehearsed
incident when the Hon. Harry Vereker
(Alban Whitehead), posing as a rickshaw
boy and eloping with Nanoya, spilt his uas-
seiiger on the stage. The weird clothing of
the Cingalese assisting with Edwin Brett’s
song “And There Isn’t Much More to
Say” vastly tickled the gallfcry, and when the
soloist put on his spectacles to read some
introduced topical verses the gods rocked
with laughter and the stalls and boxes
joined in. In the first-night audience were
Mrs. Len Buxton, with a gold brocade even-
ing coat, Mrs. Forbes Mackenzie, the John
Taits, Mrs. Stewart Ferguson, Mrs. Percy
Blackbourn and the Philip Nunns.
Mrs. Frank Lobb, of Eythorne, Romsey,
on a visit to the city with her daughter
Ruth, gathered many friends about her at
the Quamby Club one afternoon last week
for bridge and chatter. The hostess com
bined in her three-piece suit cigar-brown and
mastic hues, and wore a straw hat of har-
monising shade. Figured crepe de Chine
mingling pink, green and fawn, with becom-
ing millinery, was the wear of Miss Lobb.
Among the guests were Mrs. Norman Dera-
vin, of Bendigo, and Marjorie Dempster, of
Perth.
Painter Marion Jones, of Bendigo, who
went to England two years ago, was repre-
sented at a recent show of the Royal Society
of Portrait Painters by two or three present-
ments of well-known Australians, the can-
vases being hung in prominent positions.
Miss Jones was a Travelling Scholarship
winner.
One of our most talented young painters,
Ernest Buckmaster, has found a patron,
Cyril Steele, of this city, who has so much
faith in his protegd that he is sending him
to Italy. Mr. Buckmaster started work as
a signwriter, and attended evening classes
at the National Gallery.
Helen Mary Tolson, who came here with
her mother, Mrs. A. S. Tolson, of Port
Elizabeth, South Africa, chose this city as
the scene of her marriage to Augustine, sou
of the A.. N. Lawrences, of Toorak. The
bridegroom is a resident of Bombay, being
managing director there of General Motors.
Satin of vellum tone with tulle veil and
seed pearl embroideries formed the bride’s
array. She was given away by Knight John
Butters and had no ’maids.
St. Andrew’s kirk, Middle Brighton, saw
the forging of the links between Lila,
younger daughter of Mrs. A. H. Cox, and
Haddon, son of Mr. and Mrs. Aubrey Smith.
The bride’s gown, of ivory silk lace, flared to
a train, and was surmounted by a veil of
tulle attached to a coronet of orange buds
and pearls. Patou pink chiffon garbed the
two attendant ’maids, who had matching
hats. The rejoicing's took place at No. 9.
At the Collins-street kirk Jean, daughter
of the George Glennys, of Ballarat, ex-
changed vows with Neil Watson Anderson, of
Donald, son of Mrs. David Anderson, of Ilay
(N.S.W.). Attended by her sister Marjorie,
in coral-pink satin and picture straw hat, the
bride trailed a simple graceful gown of white
satin with a veil of lovely Brussels lace and
carried a sheaf of deep red roses. There
was a party afterwards at the Oriental.
News comes from .London of the marriage
ot Kathleen Harper, of Hawthorn, Mel-
bourne, and Engineer-Commander Henry
Evans, R.N. For the ceremony, which was
performed at the Presbyterian kirk, Nice,
with preliminaries at the British Consulate,
the bride wore a gown and hat of soft pink
chiffon velvet.
As greeting to Mrs. W. Campbell Guest,
returned after a long stay in England, there
was an afternoon-tea rally at Cliveden Man-
sions, staged by Mrs. Chris Cowper and Mrs.
Hudson Eastwood. Beautiful flowers from
the Cowpers’ country home at Macedon made
a cheerful showing grouped about the lounge.
The Girl Guides’ Association had its
annual totting up last week at a meeting
at which Lady Somers presided. Mrs. T.
a’Beckett, of the Free Kindergarten Union,
the Moderator-General of the Presbyterian
Church and the Director of Education said
kind words about the movement. Recruits
to the G.G. ranks last year totalled 1240,
and there is a credit balance.
Captain and Mrs. H. W. Kenrick have
vacated their home at Borne for an indefinite
period, as business and pleasure have called
them to England. Their son, Mr. W. Ken-
rick, and his wife and small child intend to
say good-bye to Sydney shortly, and will join
them in London. Captain Kenrick during
the war was technical adviser to the Admi-
ralty on matters connected with the Mercan-
tile Marine. He was long associated with the
P. and O. Company, and retired from the
briny about 1920. The Mongolia is carrying
the Ivenricks on their way.
Pianist La Tour Lomax, encouraged by
praise from Wilhelm Backhaus, off with her
mother for a course of study in Europe. Ger-
trude Fraser, Miss Lomax's teacher, staged
a farewell tea for her pupil at Menzies'.
The guests listened to some numbers by the
student, which were supplemented by violin
pieces by Mrs. Broinowski and songs by
Mrs. S. Marsden.
The Wattle League poured tea at the
E.S.U. club rooms the other day as good-bye
to Mr. and Mrs. C. B. Daly. Mrs. Daly,
known in the musical world as Edith Harrliy,
has always been on the best of terms with
the league; she dedicated to it a song extoll-
ing the national flower. The Daly couple
and their daughters, Patsy and Honor, are
now outward bound.
The Catholic Theatre Guild’s perform-
ance of “Peg o’ My Heart” at the Playhouse
benefited St. Anne’s Hostel. W. P. Carr,
the organiser of the guild, was the producer,
and lie put on a very well-staged perform-
ance in which the prompter had a sinecure.
Adeline Strain, who won inter-State laurels
at the South-street competitions the other
day as an entertainer, played with dignity
the role of Mrs. Chichester. Agnes Casey, as
Peg, showed promise, as did also Lola
Martin as Ethel Chichester. Many sheaves
and baskets of horticulture were passed over
the footlights at the curtain’s fall. ' Arch-
bishop Mannix was in the audience.
The excellent service given by the Trav-
ellers’ Aid Society was commented on at the
annual meeting the other day by W. H.
Edgar, of the Uppish House. Nest Malcolm,
the organising sec., finds that though migra-
tion from overseas is at a standstill there
is a steady influx to the city from the
country. The society in addition to its
other activities runs an employment bureau,
and Miss Malcolm has played the role of
fairy godmother and arranged weddings for
many needy young couples, with a feast and
glad rags for the bride. During the year
7831 trains and 393 ships were met and
9455 people were assisted.
Recent additions to the city’s shopping
arcades have been made in Collins-street,
where the Athenaeum Club quarters and
Webb’s store of aforetime have been con-
verted to such purposes. What was once
the club’s ground floor now leads right into
the Block Arcade, a very alluring shopping
centre with fine windows, flood lighting and
a decorative ceiling. Glad rags and hats
are here displayed. The other avenue of
stores links up Howey-place, and is not
quite ready for occupation, but some names
already appear upon the shop fronts.
Lady Somers was commandeered by the
Malvernites to launch a bazaar at the Parish
Hall of Holy Advent Church at the week-
end to lessen the debt clinging to the re-
built hall. The vicar, the Rev. E. •>. B.
White, thanked the vice-regal lady, who was
presented with a posy, for her interest. Ihe
Ladies’ Guild, of which Mrs. White is the
president, sponsored the undertaking.


A
LEIPZIG SPRING
TRADE FAIR, 1931
A
(GERMANY).
Incorporating Great Engineering Fair until March 11.
The Greatest Trade Exhibition in the World.
Despite the heavy and almost impossible Australian tariff legislation, Australian
business men and oversea buyers can profitably visit the 1931 Spring Fair at
Leipzig.
German manufacturers have marked their goods at such prices as to make
all purchases at the Spring Fair sell at a profit.
This means that the middleman is eliminated, and you deal direct with the
manufacturer.
The Great Spring Fair begins on MARCH 1, 1931.
INQUIRIES INVITED. All Official Data, Transport Concessions, Hotel Accom-
modation, Rail Service, etc., including Letters of Introduction, will be gladly
given—free of cost.
Authorized Representatives:
LARS G. BRUNDAHL,
121 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
(’Phones: 84006 and MW2201)
C. N. KEPPEL,
Box 585 D, G.P.0., Melbourne, Vic.
SUMMER IS ALWAYS SPRING
lIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIM IlllllllllliS lIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIW llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllili
at
Mt. Buffalo, National Park, Victoria.
Throughout the summer months the cool mountain air is scented
with the sweet breath of spring. Last summer s maximum tempera-
ture was only 78.
Pleasant, easy walks to vantage points commanding wonderful
panoramic views, boating, fishing and swimming in placid Lake
Catani, and the service and appointments of the renowned Chalet
make Mt. Buffalo the ideal summer resort.
Inquire at the
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
Martin Place, Sydney; or Queen’s Walk, Melbourne.
BREAK O' DAY
BY JOHN CRISP
Illustrations by Scorfleld
Synopsis : Dan Digby, a giant of a
man, is transported to Tasmania for
smuggling. He escapes to the main-
land, is again in trouble, and is being
taken back to Adelaide. On the way
he refuses to go any further, and is
chained to a tree. He is saved from
dingoes by Hawke and Hales, two
other fugitives. He takes comma/nd
of them,, and formulates a scheme to
take a cutter and sail to New Zealand.
He includes Sam Morgan, another
escapee, in the party. They get away
from, the S. Australian coast safely,
though short of food and water; but
only'Digby reaches New Zealand. _ He
soon starts trading and acquiring
land, and has much success when he
meets and marries Margaret Cameron.
He loves her as he had never loved
before. Bess is born, the mother dies,
and Bess groins up with her father at
Maxwclton.
Chaptee XII.
NOW began the era of the hardy pioneer.
The forest fell before the axe, and
the clearings were dotted with white
canvas tents, while everywhere huts and
houses were being built of undressed logs.
Small areas were cultivated, for food of
every kind was scarce. With the arrival of
every ship the population increased A
town site was surveyed at the head of a
narrow inlet, twenty miles long and deep
enough to accommodate the largest vessel
afloat. A range of hills, of varying alti-
tudes, rose gently from the waterfront to
west and south and sloped back to a hinter-
land of fertile plains.
As yet no one seemed prepared to stay
in the new land all the days of his life,
but regarded his sojourn there as a tem-
porary exile from “Home,” to which he
would one day return a rich man. It never
occurred to them that they were trans-
planted; they could not know that the
few who long years after would return to
the homeland would be shocked to find that
“Home” was no longer home, and that they
would gladly come back to their own colony
to spend the evening of their days. They
had no highfalutin ideas about founding
another Britain at the Antipodes. Not in
their wildest dreams did they vision an army
of their grandsons, keen-featured stalwarts
and friends of Freedom, journeying across
half the world to lend their aid that Free-
dom might not die. They could not see
that their sons would regard the old land
not as a mother to be loved, but as an
admirable and indulgent grandmother with
a well-filled stocking. They saw only the
virgin forest that must give way before the
axe. They wanted the soil and the fruits
thereof.
The town site at the head of the inlet
was procured by the organisation under
whose auspices the first emigrants had
sailed; and the method of procuring the
same was a simple one, by reason of the
fact that it belonged to one person who
was quite willing to part with it—at a price.
That person was Daniel Digby, of Max-
welton, in the colony of New Zealand,
trader.
The early settlers very soon discovered
that Daniel Digby could supply personal as
well as real property, and had for that
purpose erected at the settlement a general
store, where he was prepared to supply
their wants and to purchase from them at
a fair value all that was produced on their
holdings; furthermore, that he was pre-
pared to make advances, in money or kind,
to approved settlers. In short, Daniel
Digby was from the beginning the economic
soul of the settlement! The settlers mar-
velled that one man should have so much
wealth and so much power; and they soon
learned to fear and sometimes to hate him,
as a hard and merciless man who took his
interest on the day or foreclosed on the
next.
It mattered not at all to Daniel Digby
that the authority which sponsored the
settlement of the southern province, looking
for a town site, favored the head of the
inlet which the first settlers called Moana,
as the Maoris had done before them. To
this day no one can understand why this
euphonious and appropriate name should
have been adopted by the Scottish settlers,
when they might so easily have christened
the bairn New Edinburgh or New Aberdeen,
or even Glasgow spelled backwards. It cer-
tainly speaks volumes for their sensitive
ears, and their appreciation of the eternal
fitness of things, that they called the beau-
tiful place Moana.
No, it did not matter at all to Dan Digby
that a place twenty miles distant from
Maxwelton should be chosen for the town
site, because he and Bess, years before and
right up to the time of the arrival of the
first immigrants, had explored the country
for many more than twenty miles around,
and had seen to it that effective possession
was taken of every spot that any sane
person could ever desire. Big Dan and
Little Bess had constituted themselves a
committee to acquire. The procedure
adopted to determine whether this or.that
tract should be secured was very simple.
Dan would fire a series of questions at Bess
and answer them himself; and then would
ensue an argument in which Dan would tell
Bess she had a lot to learn. But when,
later on, the transaction was complete, he
would always begin the announcement of
the news with the formula, “Bess, I took
your advice, after all.”
The twelve months immediately preced-
ing the arrival of the first immigrants saw
Bess and Dan in frequent session as a com-
mittee to consider and decide what real
estate would be in most demand. To that
end it became the bounden duty of the
committee to examine all the waterways
and anchorages, and the land that abutted
on the same, to discover where lay the
most suitable locality for the building of
a town. Double-banking old Captain, their
only horse—Dan in the saddle, and Bess
on the pommel that had been cushioned to
accommodate her—they would set out at
daybreak to examine the country that lay
beyond the range of hills guarding the inlet
called Moana; or they would board the
little cutter —again without a name, be-
cause the Margaret saddened Dan with
memories of her whom he had loved a.nd
lost—and sail around the bays where croon-
ing waves creamed over the sea shells that
strewed the shining beaches; or they would
explore some bower where the water was
quite still and dark and deep, and in the
depths of which Bess could see reflected a
pair of round eyes, nicely parted, beneath a
tousle of quivering red curls,
a pert nose, and a chin which, although it
was rounded, had something in the tilt of
it that marked the owner as Dan Digby’s
child. They would tramp, too, through the
virgin bush, where the lawyer-vine would
lie in wait for little Bess, and, when she
was close enough, would wrap its thorny
tentacles about her body and hold her tight,
and, when Dan had released all the painful
hooks, would spitefully deliver the parthian
shot by slapping them both on the face.
But the supplejacks were friendly and in-
vited Bess to swing on them round and
round the giant tree from which they hung
like the snakes from Medusa’s head. And
they would eat the mid-day meal beside a
tinkling stream, with the tomtits and robins
to share it. Years later Bess recalled those
days as the happiest of her life.
So thoroughly and shrewdly did Dan and
Bess make their dispositions to meet the
threatened invasion that it would have been
difficult indeed to have chosen a town site
on or near the coastline of which the Digbys
were not in possession; and although Bess’s
contribution to. the grave deliberations of
the committee was to agree wonderingly to
every statement of her parent, yet she
always got the credit for having suggested
the acquirement of lands that were stra-
tegically of the first importance.
“Bj r goom, lass, you’re as wise as a
witch,” her father would flatter her, taking
her hands and swinging her up to his
shoulder. “I don’t know what I would do
without you, I’m domned if I do.” And
the woods would echo Bess’s laughter as
she rumpled his mop of hair and shouted
with glee, “Oh Daddy! It was you that did
it, and you always say it was me”
So Daniel sat secure in his citadel at
Maxw’elton, and addressed the ocean, “Let
’em come 2 let ’em all come! The more the
merrier.”
Chapter XIII.
The success of the province of which
Moana was the capital was never in doubt,
because of the richness of the soil, the
abundance of water, and the not too diffi-
cult means of access to the back country,
to say nothing of the splendid type of immi-
grant that founded the province.
The first settlers were drawn mostly from
families who for generations had earned
their daily bread as farmers and crofters.
They were the true founders of the pro-
vince, and gave to it a.ll individuality and
a spirit that through all the years has
carried it forward, always in the van of
progress. Hard on their heels followed
empire builders from every county south
of the Tweed, filling the settlement with
their strange and diverse dialects. Every
ship carried its quota of the colorful sons
and daughters of Erin, who were amazed
and amused at Yorkshire trying to under-
stand Cornwall, and who generously offered
to teach the “furriners” the English
language.
With the passing of the years the province
came to consist of Scots, Irish and Neutrals.
The last comprised the people who hailed
from the counties of England and Wales,
about whose love for the old land mere
was nothing aggressive, and who did not
seek to impose their manners and customs
on the life of the colony. The Scots and
Irish, on the other hand, never abated one
jot the characteristics of their race. Once
a Celt, never a Sassenach. The Highlander,
in and out of season, proclaimed in song,
“My heart’s in the Highlands, my heart is
no’ here.” Sundays saw the kirk filled with
whiskered Scots in paper collars, enjoying
the words of the glowering preacher as he
drew a picture for his congregation of the
sulphurous hereafter that awaited tfyem.
Neither could the Irish permit themselves
to be assimilated. They were ever and
always “exiles of Erin,” and every man of
them had resolved to return one day to the
land of saints and scholars, to deliver it
from the Saxon bondage. And meantime
they sang “The Wearin’ o’ th’ Green,” and
twice a year broke the heads of their
fellow-countrymen from the “black North.”
The province grew and prospered with
the years: and the multifarious enterprises
of Daniel Digby measured their growth by
r,hat of the province. The northern settle-
ments, all a few years older than Moana,
were developing, without meeting any
serious set-backs, and from all of them the
Digby sailing-vessels earned good profits.
Digby had long since given up his log cabin
at Maxwelton on the banks of the Rewa-
Rewa Riyer. That part was being rapidly
settled by farmers, who found in the Rewa-
Rewa valley land of such natural fertility
that both cereal and root crops were being
harvested in abundance. In place of the
log hut he had built an imposing residence
at Moana. It stood on an eminence over-
looking the harbor, where generally at least
one of his own schooners rode at anchor.
Since the founding of the province, his
contracts had been for the most part with
business men who had been trained as such.
It had surprised him to discover how little
he knew of the ramifications of finance. He
had noticed, too, that his ignorance and
illiteracy were the cause of surprise in
others, who, meeting him for the first time,
seemed to expect something altogethei
different from the colonial magnate. Like
many another, he had a native instinct for
following the trail that led to profits; but
when the opportunity came to him to meet
others cast in the same mould as himself,
men who were instructed in the canons of
business, he kept his ears and eyes well
opened, so keen he was to learn every point
of the game. He did not worry about the
details of his affairs. His managers and
clerks attended to them. He did want to
know if his capital was returning him
the utmost possible interest. But for
native sagacity in formulating a policy that
comprehended the probable developments of
the future, and in the daring and not in-
frequently unscrupulous method of putting
his ideas into operation, he had no peer in
the colony. He was a man to be reckoned
with when going about his business, but in
all else he realised that there could be none
so destitute as he.
Naturally enough his wants increased
when he regained contact with civilisation.
He desired to have the comforts that others
possessed, and he was not without the capa-
city to demonstrate to the world that he
was a man of money. But every time he
entered into that “showing-off” competition
which is maintained in all communities,
large and small, among the self-made, he
became nervous concerning his past, the
facts of which he had jealously guarded;
and despite the care he had taken that no-
thing might be revealed, he sensed in the
social atmosphere that men were somehow
aware that he had seen things men should
not see. When he had carelessly permitted
his wrists to be exposed in company, he
had seen men staring at them in silence
Had they asked him about the origin of
the scars, he would have had an opportunity
to tell how he was tied to a tree by blacks
in Australia; and he resented the silence
as proof that the men around him had their
own opinions of the cause of those distress-
ing wounds. His back, too, worried him,
especially when the old stripes itched on
hot days. It terrorised him to conceive
of some circumstance, such as an accident,
which would necessitate his bare back be-
ing exposed to the gaze of a medical man.
But withal he managed to show to his world
the front that is shown by most successful
men, and his neighbors for the most part
accepted him at his face value.
By the year 1853 he had so advanced in
his business outlook, and the future of the
colony was so assured, that he formed a
joint stock company to take over his ship-
ping and merchant business, retaining for
himself a controlling interest. Then, feeling
secure about his own future, his thoughts
turned to the future of Bess.
At twelve years Bess Digby was the pro-
duct of her environment. Any qualities
she may have inherited from her gentle
mother were overlaid by the characteristics
developed through almost daily contact with
her father. She was a tall, leggy girl, giving
promise of a striking if not of a beautiful
woman, whose bearing would be the anti-
thesis of the type so common at that period
and known as the “clinging vine.” Until
the arrival of the first settlers, she had
seen little of children of her own race.
There were no white children at the whaling
station. Her contact with them was con-
fined to the brief visits she had made with
her grandmother to the northern settle-
ment. Her childhood companions had been
the Maori children of the pa, to whose
chief her father was a frequent visitor. Bess
could chatter in Maori as glibly as the
beautiful brown mites with whom she fished
and swam and fought mimic battles—battles
fought to illustrate the tribe’s traditions,
preserved by the old wahines, and retailed
by them to the children, with fearsome
rollings of yellow eyeballs and an infinite
variety of symbolic gestures.
Had it not been for her grandmother,
Bess would have acquired only the habits
of the picturesque savages, and she would


The Paper you should first select in Queensland for any Advertising
Campaign is—
The “Daily Mail”
BRISBANE
Results count, and in Queensland the “Daily Mail” is demon-
strating its supremacy in this respect every day. The “Daily Mail”
is one of Brisbane’s two morning papers, and although more than
50 years younger than its contemporary, its net circulation
both city and country has been proved by unaccepted challenge
to be greater than any other Queensland daily.
Rate Cards, Net Daily Circulation Certificate and Specimen Copies
from:—
Brisbane Daily Mail, Ltd.
Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
London: R. B. BRETT
and SON, 30-34 New
Bridge Street, E.C.4
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
have known no other manners than those of
her father, which were those of a corsair.
But she got her chance with the coming of
the white people. And especially
Andrew MePhee, M.A., of Edinburgh, had
opened a school at Moana, and Bess was
enrolled as one of his first pupils.
Andrew MePhee, a scholarly old gentle-
man, had a wife and six sons, and but
small possessions besides. He had uprooted
himself to give his sons the chance in the
new land he knew he could never win for
them in the old. The old gentleman found
in Bess raw material so much to his liking
that he set about the task of educating
her with great care and much enthusiasm;
and if he also regarded her as a brand to
to be snatched from the burning, that was
all in her favor, as giving zest to his task.
Bess went to him, her mind untrammeled,
ohe had nothing to unlearn. She had no
conventions; she had been permitted to
express unrestrainedly her pleasure and her
pain, and it distressed MePhee as it had
shocked her grandmother to hear her in
anger using violent and blood-curdling oaths.
She soon came to regard the other girls as
not worthy of her attention, and devoted
the school recesses to promoting and manag-
ing games and fights with the boys. But
much was forgiven her, because she loved
learning and worked hard, her highly com-
petitive nature being unable to endure that
another—girl or boy—should displace her as
the school’s best scholar. She succeeded so
well that during her five years at the
school she maintained her position as Mr.
MePhee’s star pupil, and left it with banners
flying.
Those five years did much for Bess,
thereafter, through all her life, she was the
friend of educational institutions, many of
which she helped to support with grants of
money—her only form of philanthropy.
Chapter XIV.
Daniel Digby, since he believed only in
success, and taking his daughter’s school
career as a proof that she could go farther,
planned more fields for her to conquer. He
frankly wanted to see her the most desired
lady in the land. To that end he wished
her to have the benefit of contact with the
best; and as he had no ideas about how to
bring that into effect, he took advice on the
matter from the vicar, with whom he was
on the friendliest terms. It was to him
the vicar had turned to finance the cost of
building the first church of the Anglican
faith in the province.
The Reverend Charles Fitzroy, vicar of
Moana, was a younger son of an old Kentish
family. While sincerely believing that the
old aristocracy was a race apart, he was
first and foremost a zealous churchman,
prepared to suffer exile and undergo hard-
ships that “the message” might be carried
to the ends of the earth. Socially, he be-
lieved in two classes only, the upper and
the lower. In the middle class he did not
believe at all, but contemned that solid
body of tireless climbers as the direct
descendants of the moneychangers who
turned the .temple into an exchange. With
the lower class he was in full sympathy,
for were they not of the soil? Them he
always recognised, and if need be was pre-
pared to live among them. But the so-called
middle class, with their preposterous pre-
tentions, were, he held, destitute of back-
ground, and stood for nothing whatever in
the country. The Reverend Charles did not
class Digby as being within his scorn, and
therefore did not hesitate to canvass him for
donations to this fund and that. In the
vicar’s mind, Digby was quite definitely
lower class.
When the magnate, in his perplexity,
sought the vicar’s advice, that gentleman
whole-heartedly fell in with the idea that
Bess should “go farther,” and he advised
his parishioner to lose no time in shipping
her to England.
“But, sir,” objected Digby, “to whom will
I ship her? I’ve no friends now in the
old land.”
“That is all in its favor,” obsei’ved the
vicar. “Your friends could not help her.”
“Ah!” Daniel replied thoughtfully.
“Listen, Digby. There is in Kent a semi-
nary for young ladies—at Holystone. My
mother was there, and my sisters. It is
expensive, of course; but that won’t con-
cern you.”
“Not at all, sir. It sounds a bit high and
mighty for my lass, still”
“There is nothing high and mighty about
it,” the vicar assured him. “It is quite
simple and exclusive.”
"Ah!” Digby repeated again thoughtfully.
“There’s just this,” continued the
Reverend Charles. “Money alone cannot
secure a young person admittance; at least,
I should say, it could not in my time. I
am sorry to say that quite lately a regret-
table exception has been made.”
“Ah!” said Dan, wondering what it was
all about.
“Well, as I was saying,” pursued the
vicar, “usually something more than money
is required. Birth, or a recommendation by
someone whose antecedents are beyond
cavil.”
“Ah!”
“Very well, Digby. I can procure for
your Bess such a recommendation.”
“Fine,” said Digby, and requested to be
told how long his lass ought to stay at the
seminary.
“Well,” advised the vicar, “she is seven-
teen now; say three years. Ton my word,
Digby, you’ll be a proud man when you see
her, at twenty, fresh from Holystone semi-
nary.”
Digby rose, with many words of thanks,
in the course of which he let the vicar
know that his purse was open to help
anything in connection with the church.
The vicar shook his hand and remarked,
“By the way, we don’t see much of each
other. We must see more. I want you to
tell me of your experiences in the colonies.
I am sure they must be interesting, and—
and sensational.”
“Ah!” said Digby, even more thought-
fully, and as he moved towards the door
he gripped his coat cuffs, and dragged them
well over his wrists.
“Good gracious, Charles!” remarked Mrs.
Fitzroy from her place at the dinner-table.
“You surprise me! Bess Digby, indeed!
Surely that girl can get all the education
and refinement she’ll ever want in the
colony. Charles, she’ll be quite out of place
at Holystone.”
“Not so, my dear,” replied the vicar, who
had recounted to his wife what had passed
between Digby and himself. “Bess is a
quite remarkable girl, and Mary will be
delighted, I am sure, to be her sponsor lor
Holystone.”
“Oh, quite so,” agreed Mrs. Fitzroy, her
pink and white face puckered interro-
gatively, as she sought her husband’s eyes
across the table. “But tell me, Charles,
why are you doing this? It is so unlike
you. Bess Digby and Holystone! Good
gracious!”
“Why not Bess Digby and Holystone?”
snapped his reverence. “Holystone has
opened its doors to the patent-medicine
man’s daughters—you’ve read Mary’s letter
.—so why not Bess Digby?”
“Well, all I can say, Charles, is that this
Daniel Digby appears to have made a
remarkable impression on you. He’s wealthy,
of course, but the people here say he is an
old lag. Of course we don’t know if it is
true; but in any case”
“My dear Edith,” interrupted the vicar,
“of course it is true. I verily believe my-
self that Digby was lagged, as they call it;
at any rate, I hope so. It would be in
keeping with the man’s character and looks,
But, in any case, is he a more reprehensible
character than that fellow Benjamin, a
Jew turned Christian, a purveyor of a
poisonous patent-medicine, whose daughters
were admitted last year to Holystone?
You’ve read Mary’s letter. Shortly before
we left home, my dear, I was obliged to
perform the painful duty of returning to him
a substantial donation he had made to St.
Mark’s. We had discovered that he was
but two years previously a welshing book-
maker, as well as being connected with other
enterprises equally disreputable. Now it
appears he is a wealthy medicine-man, and
—his brats are at Holystone!”
“But, Charles”
“Pardon me, my dear, I was going to
observe, I cannot see any reason now why
the daughter of Daniel Digby should not
participate in the benefits to be derived
from that exclusive establishment, even
though Mr. Daniel is strangely reticent con-
cerning his past.”
“Well, well,” the complaisant wife sur-
rendered, “I suppose you know best, but
I am glad it is not my people who”
“Of course,” continued the vicar, who
always interrupted his wife. “I did not tell
“The woods would echo Bess’s laughter as she rumpled his mop of hair and shouted
with glee.”
Digby that his daughter would be a school-
fellow of Benjamin’s daughters, because I
thought he might consider that fatal to the
project.”
When the arrangements were completed
by the vicar for Bess’s entrance to Holy-
stone, it was decided that she should sail
on the Indian Queen, due to leave Welling-
ton nine weeks hence. Theq it was that
Daniel bethought him that a sight ol the
old land, after all the years, would do him
no harm, and that Bess could have no better
companion on the voyage than her own
father. Accordingly he set about arranging
his affairs to permit of his absence from
the colony. It would be necessary for them
to Moana for Wellington at least a
fortnight before the sailing date of the over-
seas vessel. There was little enough time
to get ready. In the interim Daniel set
out on a round of visits to those of his
properties which lay not too far away.
As the day of departure drew near, Daniel
felt himself grow younger. It was going
to be good to drop his many burdens for
a space, and to see again his native land,
He did not hold it against her that her
harsh criminal laws and her appalling con-
vict system had all but done for him. There
were compensations that more than balanced
the ledger, not the least of which was that
his daughter was going to be turned into
a lady at an aristocratic English seminary,
At night he lay in bed, thinking it over,
Bess hobnobbing with the'best! Bess com-
ing home a lady—the richest, handsomest,
cleverest, most desired in the whole coun-
try. He was the proudest father in the
world, and he was going to be prouder,
He would see to it that the vicar lost no-
thing by what he had done for the Digbys.
But he must be more careful than ever
that nothing of his past career ever leaked
out. He must keep his wrists well covered,
There were fresh arrivals in the province
every month. He mustn’t expose his scars
and invite questions. As for his back—
well, he would see to it that no one ever
set eyes on what was there. Yes, for Bess’s
sake he must be careful. It was good of
the townsfolk to plan a send-off for them
—-speeches, presents, and all.
Thus Daniel lay awake conning the events
of the past and planning to shape the future
to his heart’s desire, in utter ignorance of
the fact that he could have counted the
days that remained to him on the fingers
of one hand. Forty-eight hours before the
(Continued on page 43.)


The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distiguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Rear-Admiral Ivayser and the officers of
the Netherlands squadron were at-home on
the cruiser Java as a finale to the festivities
of Dutch Squadron Week. Before the after-
noon function the Governor and Lady Good-
win were entertained at lunch, with Nether-
lands Consul P. H‘. Hart and liis wife. Mrs.
Hart wore cream crepe de Chine and flecked
green and mastic hat, and carried a bouquet
of sunburst roses and maidenhair, tied with
the Netherlands colors, presented by Admiral
Ivayser. C.-J. Blair’s wife wore dark blue
mariette. Mrs. A. E. Moore chose navy;
Mrs. Jolly navy-blue satin beaute; Mrs. E.
M. Ralph black and white; Mrs. de Witt
Batty pink and brown floral muslin; Mrs.
Sligo white; and Mrs. F. M. Lorenzo floral
chiffonette.
Admiral Ivayser and many Dutch officers
were among those present when the Gover-
nor dedicated the Anzac Memorial and with a
torch lit the Eternal Flame. An old woman
was seen struggling through the crush ; when
kindly hands went to help her she said it
was four years since she had been in the
city, but she had “heard her son’s name
was on the memorial” and wanted to see it.
The poor old soul was 90 years of age, and
crippled with rheumatism. The day was one
of the hottest days of the summer, and ter-
minated in a heavy thunderstorm.
The Premier and Mrs. Moore gave a
garden party in Government House grounds,
lent by their Exes., for the entertainment
of the Admiral and officers of the Netherlands
squadron. In the absence of the Premier
at Canberra, Mr. R. M. King played the
host. Petunias, larkspurs, zinnias, bougain-
villaea 'and roses backgrounded the gay
summer frocks. Lady Goodwin wore asli-
rose and ivory lace; Mrs. Moore was in
black with hints of red and gold ; Mrs. R. M.
King chose black; the Blair lady brightened
things with amb£r mariette; Mrs. de Witt
Batty with amber and flame; and Mrs. Neal
Macgroarty with spring-green.
A ball in honor of the Dutch squadron and
to aid the Seamen’s Institute was held _in
Lennon’s, Sir John and Lady Goodwin being
present. Mesdames A. E. Moore and Hamil-
ton Hart, with Kitty H’illcoat, received the
vice-regal party. Pink roses decked the
supper tables and there was bridge in the
palm court. Her Ex. wore ombre chif-
fon ; Mrs. Moore ueach mariette; Mrs.
Hamilton Hart vellum-tinted moire;
Kitty Hillcoat chiffon fleurette in flame
tones; Mrs. A. H. Whittingham Castilian
red ; and Marie Lorenzo flesh pink.
The “Fairies” Ball in aid of the creche and
kindergarten was at Lennon’s, where the
pupils of Thelma Robertson and Marjorie
H’ollinshed gave displays of fancy dancing.
The Premier and Mrs. Moore were among
those who found the Watteau shepherdesses
charming and the wattle fays lively.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
His Ex. put in his last appearance at a
race-meeting in Launceston, when the chair-
man (Dr. G. E. Clemons) and the commit-
tee of the T.T.C. farewelled him in the
stewards’ room. Chairman and Mrs. Clemons
also entertained a crowd at tea in the presi-
dent’s room, where roses were everywhere.
Fine weather brought out those summer frocks
and frills which are never seen to more
advantage than on green lawns. Mrs. Clemons
sported oyster-grey tweed, \yith black hat,
and daughter Anne looked smart in blue- and
grey-flecked summer tweed. There was a
good muster of country folk, and a few early
swallows from the mainland showed up
among the throng.
This is Miss Margaret O’Grady whose
impending farewell to the Speck will leave
a lot of sad-
ness. She is
a versatile girl
who works
and plays
with equal
t li orouglmess,
and has given
a boost to all
sorts of sport
in the island
as well as
showing her-
self keenly in-
to rested in
social service.
A prominent
office-bearer in
the Girl
Guides, Miss
O’Grady was
commandeered
by the asso-
ciation for a
part in the
comedy “The Lord of the Manor/’ and
acquitted herself with credit. Vaudry
Robinson made the picture.
For their usual annual reunion the
V.A.D.’s this year substituted a big bridge
party at Hadley’s. Capt. Boddam put prac-
tically the best part of the hotel at their dis-
posal. The committee were Mrs. Escott,
Mrs. K. Robertson, Mrs. Dudley Ransome,
Miss Maxwell, Miss Bailey, Miss Bradley
and Miss Payne (sec.). Seventy-three tables
were set out for players; the proceeds are
to be devoted to the relief of unemployed
returned soldiers.
The Antarctic-bound Discovery looks very
shipshape and trim in her new coat of paint,
and attracts a crowd to the wharves daily.
Douglas Mawson and his lady are the guests
of the Arndell Lewises, Holebrook, while
in Hobart.
To raise the wind in these hard times the
Girl Guides’ Association hit upon the happy
idea of producing “The Lord of the Manor,”
by Hastings Turner, under the direction of
Fred Brough. The piece ran for two nights
to “bubbling” houses. The women players
were Margaret O’Grady, Mrs. P. S. Shad-
forth, Patty Clarke and Allison Gray; the
men were Fred Brough, Norman Lane, Geoff
Clerk, M. St. Hill, Col Thomas, Marcus
Gibson and Ken Douglas. Hobart’s theatre-
going public has been so well catered for
by the Repertory Society that any other
amateur show has to maintain a high stand-
ard. In this case it was effectively upheld.
Scotch College, Ravenscrag, Launceston,
has been enlarged by a handsome addition to
the building. The official opening brought
a big crowd from town, and the Parents
and Friends’ Association made hay while the
sun shone by running a fair on the spot and
raking in a good sum.
E. H. Watson, A.R.C.M., waved the con-
ductor’s baton at the Orpheus Club’s concert
at the Town Hall. The part-singiiig was
specially good. The chief item on the pro-
gramme was Owen Jones’s setting of Long-
fellow’s “The Arsenal.” Daisy Walters,
Myra Gillon, E. H. Watson and J. Scott-
Power assisted as soloists, voice and organ.
Mr. Watson and his wife were farewelled
after the concert by members of the club;
they leave for Sydney at an early date.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Adelaide is out of luck with its alfresco
entertainments. A garden party in aid of the
free kindergartens was held at Mount Lofty.
Langdon Bonython had thrown open his
beautiful grounds at Carminow, and the
garden at Stawell, the girls’ school on the
other side of the road, was also free to the
public. There were no stalls; the shilling
admission and the afternoon tea were relied
on for the profit. Then the weather took
a hand. A lovely summer’s morning turned,
at luncli-time, to heavy rain and a wintry
blast, The Rear-Admiral, with Mrs. Evans,
and the officers of the squadron fulfilled their
obligations and attended, and many others
manfully motored thither. They crowded the
house and ate the afternoon tea in massed
formation while the kindergarten helpers
shivered in soaking wet chiffons and floppy
hats.
Very interesting was the lantern lecture
given by the Rear-Admiral in the Town Hall
on “The Dover Patrol.” Society was well
represented among the audience. The pro-
ceeds were in aid of distressed seamen. Rear-
Admiral and Mrs. E. R. G. R. Evans were
the guests of the Mayor and Mayoress at
St. Corantyn while they were in Adelaide.
Mrs. Frank Harcus had organised a trip
to Buckland Park, where Mr. and Mrs. E. A.
Brooks entertained Rear-Admiral and Mrs.
Evans, with the officers, who were whirled
to Virginia by numerous fair motorists. On
one evening some of the officers of the
squadron gave a small dance on the Albatross.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
After Backliaus’s opening numbers, the
Pathetique followed by the Waldstein, the
success of his three concerts at His Majesty’s
was assured. The wizard acknowledged the
applause with dignified bows, and never did
the flicker of' a smile brush his purposeful
features. Among first-nighters were Meta
Pickering, Kittie Gillies, the Ednie Browns,
the John Stodarts, Margaret Gavan Duffy,
the Alfred Sandovers, Prof. Cameron, Prof,
and Mrs. Ross and the R. A. Scotts.
At St. Mary’s, Colin-street, fragrant with
pink larkspurs and Madonna lilies, Ethel
Anthoness and _ Stanley Wheatley _ met to
exchange promises one evening this week.
The bridal gown of ivory satin was cut with
a period corsage, and the long full skirt
extended in a glimmering train. A foam of
Limerick lace and tulle was coroneted off
the forehead with orange buds. Flared tiers
composed the skirt of the rose-tinted organdie
frock worn by ’maid Sheila Lotz, and her
picture hat was of the same toning. Toasts
were honored at the home of the bride’s
parents.
The many rooms of the Karrakatta Club
were all decorated with different color
schemes of flowers for the club’s annual at-
home. The dais in the big hall was loaded
with palms and bowls of snapdragons. Her
Ex., in blue, came with her friend Mrs. Kerr-
I’earse. President Mrs. Mervyn Griffith
received in plumbago-blue moire, and vice-
president Mrs. Pretty lent a hand in black-
figured satin. Norah Coalstad, Alice Mallon,
Ethel Ewins, Dr. William Bossence and
Keith Gumming produced the musical pro-
gramme.
Joan, daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Blackall,
of Peppermint Grove, has become affianced
to Mr. John Hale.
AT THE BACK OF THE NORTH WIND.
Darwin.
Madeline, youngest daughter of Mr. J. Har-
greaves Millican, Superintendent of our rail-
ways, became Mrs. Clifford Green in the
Anglican Church. The groom is in the
Customs Department. The bride’s dress was
of white beaute satin, made long, and featur-
ing the new flared skirt.
Willie Lee Chow, of Darwin, was mar-
ried to Lucy Yuen, at the Kuo Ming Tang
Hall. The bride’s dress was of pink crepe
de Chine, worn with wreath and veil. There
was a Chinese ceremony in the new Repub-
lican style before the Rev. Stanley Jarvis
tied the knot in approved Methodist fashion.
Some 200 guests sat down to the wedding
feast.
The Pearlers’ Cup, a beautiful silver
trophy, to be competed for each year by
members of the Golf Club, was won for the
first season by Mr. P. D. Connors. ■ Colonel
Weddell handed it over to the winner at
the gymkhana that closes the golfing season
for the year. Mrs. Wing was associate cham-
pion, and won a lovely silver-gilt rose-bowl;
pyrex dishes, in silver mounts, went to the
winners of the mixed doubles. Mrs. Giles and
Mr Wing; and the Captain’s Cup was
annexed bv Mr. Currie, secretary of the
golf club. ’ During the afternoon, various
competitions were played, and afternoon tea
was served by the associate members.
ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?
The Money Question
Dear Bulletin, —If inflation by a debtor
nation is repudiation of its obligations to
the moneylenders and bondholders (who
apparently are nearly all widows and
orphans), then is not deflation by the
creditor nation repudiation of its obligations
to the borrowers and property-owners and
producers (nearly all returned soldiers for
the purposes of this argument, to counter-
balance the aforesaid widows and orphans) ?
During the war and for a few years after,
the Gold Standard was abandoned and the
printing-presses supplied all the money
needed for production and destruction, mainly
the latter. The bulls were then in power.
Land and property values increased because
our wheat, meat, wool and butter prices
had gone up. Money, being plentiful and
cheap, was lent and borrowed freely. Estates
were purchased at high prices, and returned
soldiers and others settled on them. The
bears or moneyed interests were having
rather a bad time, and the producers and
property owners were having the time of
their lives. Then the bears _ gained the
ascendancy, and Britain, having become
more of a moneylender than a producer,
decided on deflation and a reversion to the
Gold Standard, thus increasing the power
and value of money; hence the drop in values
of all property and produce and Australia’s
present plight. This action more than
doubled the weight of Australia’s debts.
Money and the moneyed interests have
power out of all proportion to their value
to the community. Money is only a shadow
or symbol, and yet Australia sits as if
enchanted amidst the real substance and
wealth of all kinds, unable to move hand
or foot, because certain blocks of a heavy
yellow metal, apparently very sacred, have
been transferred to another country. The
world's debts might vanish in a night if
a solid mountain of gold was discovered or
synthetic gold could be produced cheaply.
" In Tiie Bulletin’s “ What’s Wrong with
the World?” it was admitted that the Gold
Standard is inadequate, and unsatisfactory,
and there was a suggestion that something
might be evolved out of a combination of
gold, silver, wool, wheat and copper. _ But
why waste time and energy and impair the
health of a section of the community by
digging and burrowing in the earth like moles
for something that, when obtained, will be
hidden away in vaults and strongrooms? It
is really much safer where it is, lying hidden
in the reefs and leads. The dismal ones will
say—“We need it as backing for our notes.
But how can one shadow back another? The
real wealth of any community lies in the
character and ability of its citizens m con-
junction with the means of production,
whether tools or material or both. Why not
fix the currency at so many pounds per head
of population, taking into consideration tne
area and value of the land and proper cy
they own and tlieir money requirements?
Inflation is watering the stew to malm it
go further. This had to be done to carry
on the war; ours and the world s money
digestive organs had about got themselves
adjusted to the altered strength when the
cooks decided to deflate. But deflation and re-
version to the Gold Standard is surely the
maddest of all mad things for a man or
nation heavily in debt to advocate It doubles
and trebles the weight of the debt. 11ns
reversion to the Gold Standard was a worse
act on the part of Britain than Germany s
in selling her marks to foreigners and then
inflating. That was “taking down the enemy,
a “spoiling of the Egyptians ; but Britain
bv her action has “taken down her own flesh
and blood. We must hope that it was done m
ignorance.—Yours, etc., Another Point oit
View. _
The Burden of Interest
Dear Bulletin —Although every bale or
wool exported enhances Australia s credit
abroad, it impoverishes the man who pro-
duced it. Governments have given us assist-
ance by reducing costs somewhat, and ail
classes'of workers in the industry have borne
reductions philosophically. It is not these
that are oppressing the grazier ; it is tie
crushing burden of interest —a burden esti-
mated by the Queensland Land Administra-
tion Board to average 30s. per sheep. With
wool at Sid. per lb. and interest at < per
cent, this means that 31b. ot wool fiom each
sheep is levied as interest.
It is not enough to say wc have contracted
to pav, and must pay. Men who have bor
rowed to improve Crown lands find them-
selves unable to pay, and as there is but
little chance of selling these men up. there
being no buyers, overdue interest is capi-
talised until' circumstances are more propi-
tious. What a vast service these financiers
could do to Australia by reducing their
interest charges! Financial experts may be
able to give reasons why this cannot be done;
but I and thousands more average wool-
growers cannot see why our employees and
Tabor generally should bear all the reduc-
tions.—Yours, etc., Per Centum.
Can We Govern Ourselves?
Dear Bulletin, —There exists in France
an excellent law which allows the family to
establish a council when one of its members
proves himself incapable of regulating his
affairs through extravagance or other cause.
The council has the right to take over the
management of the spendthrift’s assets and
eke him out an allowance, etc. Thus he
loses what might be termed responsible self-
government and becomes a sort of Crown
colony. It would be to the advantage of the
n on-Red citizens if Australia was thus re-
duced in status for 10 years. During that
period we should (1) save the costs of seven
Parliaments, (2) re-organise the lublic
Service, (3) insist on piece-work with a
wage governed by industry or laziness. At
the end of the decade, when our house should,
bo in order, responsible self-government
should be restored Federally—-but not to the
States. Thus would we get rid of 11 absur-
dities without the expense of a referendum.
The status of a Crown colony may be
a bitter pill to swallow, but, after all. we
would be administered by Mother England,
and a mother punishes more efficaciously
than others —retaining a sore heart m the
process, which her worth-while children rea -
ise increasingly as they grow older—Yours,
etc., Gee-Emm.
Get Together!
Dear Bulletin, —My profession takes me
into all sorts of homes, and everywhere there
is undoubtedly an intense resentment at the
reduction in the basic wage;. and that re-
sentment is, I am certain, going to lead to
a diminished output, so that soon we slia.l
have a vicious circle of a different sort.
There seems to have been nowhere a definite
action on the part of Capital to take Labor
into its confidence and explain the connec-
tion of output and wages. I have yet to hear
of any general attempt by the heads of firms
to meet their employees and discuss the
situation with them. There is on the part
of the average employee a puzzled and in-
tensely suspicious resentment. My own
remedy is to implore such men as I meet
to read The Bulletin ; but The Bulletin
costs sixpence, and is looked upon as _ a
luxury. Meantime the Bed faction is losing
no opportunity of nutting its interpretation
before the workers—and the N. S. Wales
results show their success. —Yours, etc.
Physician.
Wanted, a Fixed Standard
Dear Bulletin, —The value of the sov-
ereign, or of gold itself, really varies with
the price of other things. Wliat we need
is that the value of gold itself should be
made stable throughout the world, in order
that these distressing variations shall not
occur. But it is obvious that this value
cannot be based on any material or com-
modity that may be consumed, broken up
or varied in any way.
I suggest that we base the gold value on
the unit of energy. This, called the erg, is
the amount of energy needed to raise a fixed
weight through a fixed height at the earth’s
surface. If the gold unit were based on
so many ergs, it would be simple then to
assess the value of any class of manual
work, as heat is transformed into energy,
and calculations of the amount of heat
units required for most classes of work have
already been made by scientists.
Thus, too, the white worker, being capable
of more work per day without undue fatigue,
would constantly get a higher wage than the
less efficient colored worker.
Other avenues of thought, such as a pos-
sible standardisation of the prices of various
foods . on a heat-unit basis, are opened up.—
Yours, etc., Cau-beigit.
The Inflation of Land Values
Dear Bulletin, —Is there any way of
procuring anything, except by application or
labor to the land? Well, if all labor must
get its return directly or indirectly from
land, why do we allow the land to get
further and further away from us? Dad
does well this year because we gave him a
good price for liis wool or wheat. Dan
wants a farm and can get the bank to
finance him. He pays Dad an increased price.
Later Dave pays him an increased price;
and so it goes on, till returns decrease and the
last buyer is left stranded. In every country
where land is alienated the same things
happen. It matters not whether the party
in power be Liberal, Labor or Conservative,
it is powerless to stop depression. Depres-
sions take place in set periods; we reach
the apex and then start back on the return
journey, droughts, etc., helping us to slide.
If this' is so, the only ones who receive any-
thing are the ones who sell and the one
who lends, and even those are doubtful
gainers in the long run. Then why the silly
game?—Yours, etc., Ketch.
Dear Bulletin, —Long ago men made
wages from the N.S.W. North Coast beaches
between the Clarence River and the Queens
land border; some who struck rich patches
made much more than wages. Gold is still
recovered from the sand, and any of the
unemployed could make more than police
rations, and their labor would be of value to
the country. The treatment of the sand re-
quires some skill—easily acquired by the
average worker—and a few pounds for plant.
A pump to lift water to a hopper and sluice
the sand over copper plates treated with
mercury are the principal requirements.
There is no difficulty in selling the . beach
gold, though the price varies according to
the purity, an inexpert plate-scraper getting
less because he removes some copper from
the plates which is not eliminated in retort-
ing. All the black sand on the coast men-
tioned contains some gold. My last_ sample
assayed 4s. worth per ton. —Yours, Kell.
Dear Bulletin—“E.G.K.’s” suggestion
(B. 5/11/’3O) for raising money by a wages
levy has certain points, but why, expend this
money on new and doubtful industries ? And
why drag in a board? The only person who
knows what industries are likely to succeed,
given capital, is the bloated capitalist who
is prepared to risk his money in them, and
he knows only because as soon as he stops
knowing he stops being a capitalist. And
whv call it a “levy,” and get everybody s
back up? It should not be a levy, but should
carry full current rates of interest.
My idea is for the Government to sell
deposit certificates to all employers, book-
makers and lottery promoters, to be used by
them in part payment (say, 10 per cent.) of
wages, salaries and other payments. All cer-
tificates issued for wages and salaries to
bear name of payee, and all certificates to
be available only for permanent deposit m
the Savings Bank. Exemptions might be
allowed in the case of large families or wages
below a certain figure, say SO per cent, of
basic wage. It all amounts to compulsory
saving by those in work.
After we get on our feet, the money could
be used to liquidate our debts. —Yours, etc.,
George Graham.
Dear Bulletin, —Since the tobacco taxes
have soared, New Guinea may come into
her own as one of the great tobacco-
growing countries of tlie world. Soil and
climate are there. The experience only is
lacking. The plant has grown in native
gardens all over the island for centuries. Some
years back leaf grown by white men in
Papua was declared A 1 in London. There
are no indigenous pests. The best soil is
friable loam, sandy, with plenty of -vegetable
mould. There is abundance of just sucli
in my big dark isle. —Yours, etc., I. L. I.


Murdochs
SALI
BOiihdotj
&
m
Y*\
-i
Reductions of 10%,
20%, 30%, 40%,
and even to 50%
78/9 Men’
Suits for
45/-
A first-rate bargain from Mur-
doch’s “very first” Birthday
Sale. It comprises high-grade
Woollen Worsted Sac Suits for
men; neat dark serviceable
shades. Sizes, 3, 4 and 5.
Ready for immediate service.
Seize the opportunity now!
18/6
21/-
19/6
6/6 to
11/6
25/-
6Gns.
25|11
Men’s sturdy Woollen Worsted
Trousers. Made for super ser- 13/11
Men's Tan or Black Oxford
Shoes; square and wide
round toe shapes.
14/9
Men's " Snap Brim " Fur Felt
Hats; Light, Mid and Dark
Grey Shades.
Men’s Cambric, Poplin or
White Pleated Golf Shirts
4/9
Boys’ Mid and Dark Grey
Woollen Tweed Cotswold 15/11
Youths’ Pure Wool Fancy
Worsted Sac Suits; ready £* j^
to wear *
Boys’ and Youths’ Tan Calf
Boots; narrow toe shape;
sizes 1 to 5. Sale Price ....
13/11
ALSO: 10/11 Men’s Swimming Costumes, 4/11; 12/6
Men’s Pyjamas, 8/11; 4/6 Men’s Ties, 1/6; 5/6 Men’s
Socks, 2/6; 5/6 Men’s Braces, 1/7; 6/6 Boys’ Pyj amas, 4/3.
Thousands of Others.
Do not delay! Sale ends December 1.
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOQR
Kindly address all letters to Desk “R.”
MCJms
k * GEORGE 51 SYDNEY -
JVe employ no Agents or Travellers
37
Break o’ Day (Continued from page 48.)
schooner sailed, Daniel Digby, riding round
his properties accompanied by his account-
ant, was ' thrown from his horse. He lay
still where he fell. The accountant sought
help at a neighboring farmhouse. They
carried the unconscious magnate there, and
when the doctor arrived, and the patient
was stripped of his clothing, the accountant,
the farmer and his wife, even as the broken
magnate was exhaling his last breath, read
with round eyes the history of Daniel Digby
written on his naked back.
PART 11.
• Chapter I.
Standing with his back to the clear log
fire which lent its stout, if fitful, aid to the
anaemic half-light of the kerosene lamp,
Allan Macalister gripped the back of a
deal chair with his left hand, ran the fingers
of his right hand through his strong black
beard, glared at his audience, which con-
sisted of his wife, Jessie, and his son, Mal-
colm Caesar, sitting side by side on the
form behind the kitchen table, and began:
“Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen, we are
assembled here to-night for the purpose of
forming a branch of the Land League in
Maxwelton, the centre of the Rewa-Rewa
electricate—damn that word, Jessie! I can
never get it. I’m thinking I’d better leave
it out.”
“No, no, Pa,” exclaimed Jessie, dropping
her knitting on the table. “Keep it in,
Pa. It’s a good word. Keep it in.”
Allan frowned at the whitewashed ceil-
ing, racking his memory, then looked down
at his son. “Malcolm Csesar,” he said, “look
in the book and give me the proper word.”
“Here it is, Pa,” shouted Malcolm Csesar,
his forefinger on the page of a brand-new
dictionary. “It’s spelt e-l-e-c-t-o-r-a■ t-c.”
“Never you mind what the book says,
Pa,” advised Jessie; “you say it as good as
the book. Go on, Pa, go on!” and Jessie
began to encourage her spouse by vigor-
ously clapping her hands and shouting at
her son. “Stamp your feet, Malcolm
Csesar, stamp your feet!”
Refreshed by the applause of the audi-
ence, Allan Macalister planted his feet
firmly on the earthen floor, squared his
shoulders, and, towering above the deal
table, delivered himself of the speech he had
nightly rehearsed for the past month.
The soft sibilant speech of the Scottish
Highlander lent to the words a quality
peculiarly congruous to an appeal that was
made on the assumption that there could
not possibly be another side to the question.
The speech, too, was a compelling one, made
so by the man’s sincerity; to that his eyes,
deep set and burning, and much more elo-
quent than his unlettered tongue, bore
irrefutable testimony. He called on the
people to join the Land League, which was
formed to compel the Government to cut
up the large estates, or, if the Government
refused to do so, to oust its members from
office. The development of the country was
arrested. Rich, arable land, suitable for
small holdings, was extensively held by the
land companies and squatters, many of
whom were absentees. The towns were be-
ing over-populated, while the country re-
mained empty, because the land was not
available to the people. He spoke for one
hour by the American clock that stood be-
hind him on the mantelpiece; then he
broke into his peroration: “Is not the land
of this fair colony our children’s heritage?
Will anyone in this year of grace 1877
dare assert that the policy of the Tory Gov-
ernment which withholds from the people
the fertile lands is not at once feudalistic
and reactionary? The Government must
move or be ousted from office. We must
refuse any longer to support in power a
few aristocrats and plutocrats, whose only
aim is to fill the greedy maw of the land
companies and the big squatters, who would
have us, the likes of you and me, as mere
hewers of wood and drawers of water.
Therefore, I say, let us show a solid front.
Join the Land League, and thus do your
part in helping to drive from office a pack
of time-servers and parasites.”
As Allan approached his last sentence,
Jessie laid her knitting on the table, and
extended her arms. Malcolm Csesar pressed
his back hard against the wall and raised
his feet from the floor. As the last word
fell Jessie brought the palms of her hands
together and shouted, “Well done, Pa!
Well done! Stamp your feet, Malcolm
Caesar; stamp your feet!”
Chapter 11.
When the tumultuous applause had died,
Allan wiped away the marks of his travail
by vigorously rubbing his face and head
with a rough brown towel that hung on a
nail behind the kitchen door, and refreshed
himself with two large cups of cold water
which he dipped from a bucket that Jessie
had filled and taken into the kitchen,
against the freezing of the tap of the iron
tank which stood in the yard against the
back wall of the cottage.
Jessie resumed her knitting and gazed
into the deeps of the log fire.
Malcolm Caesar, an open text-book before
him, lying on the table within the narrow
circle of _ the lamp light, stared at the
ceiling, his left hand across the page, and
muttered rapidly, like a witch doctor weav-
ing a spell, “Amo, amas, amat; amamus
amahs, amant.” Suddenly he broke off, shut
the book with a snap, and, reaching for the
brand-new dictionary, said, “Pa, would you
hke me to hear you your meanings?”
Aye, laddie,” agreed Allan; “just a few
of them. But I think I know them all now.”
Allan rose from his chair beside the fire
to procure from the little parlor at the
iront of the house, the Family Bible. He
returned with the Book to the kitchen, un-
clasped it and took from its interior several
sheets of neatly-folded foolscan which con-
tained the speech, written by Andrew Logan,
and in its fold a copy made on the sheets
of a school exercise-book by Malcolm
Caesar. The copy had been necessary; the
schoolmaster’s handwriting was unpopular
a? i ail cou ld make nothing of it at all.
Malcolm Caesar had spent two hours nightly
f°r more than a week laboriously tran-
scribing the speech by means of which his
father hoped to convince the electors of
Rewa-Rewa that the Land League would
provide a panacea for the country’s ills.
As he labored at the task, Malcolm
Caesar had conceived a black hate for
politics and its long words, and for the
schoolmaster who had written the speech
and talked his father into making a fool
an( l hated the radicals whom
his father supported, and the conservatives
whom he opposed, and his father’s political
arch-enemy, Sir Alfred Richmond, the mem-
ber for Rewa-Rewa. He could make no-
thing of it all, and he was satisfied, while
he labored at the speech, that it signified
nothing but a weary task for himself. But
that was months ago, before he was thirteen
and did not understand politics. Hjs posi-
tion w r as altogether different now. He had
heard his father sneak every week night
since then, and he was convinced. He
knew that speech by heart, and he knew it
was going to save the country from a catas-
trophe the nature of which was not at
all clear to him, but was, he had no doubt
whatever, quite clear to his father.
He knew, too, that his father was talked
about in Maxwelton as “the coming man.”
Only that morning, riding to school, he
heard old Sandy McClure say to another
in front of the Shamrock Hotel, “Yon’s
Macalister’s lad.” Yes, there was no doubt
about it, his father was getting to be some-
body.
Allan unfolded the manuscript and handed
it to his son with the boast, “Any word you
like, laddie, a.n’ I’ll gie ye the answer.”
“Pa,” popped Malcolm, the last word of
the speech still ringing in his ears, “what’s
the meaning of parasite?”
Allan stared at his son and repeated the
word, “Parasite. Parasite? Well, dang me,
parasite? Wait a wee. Oh, I mind now.
Logan said, ‘Macalister,’ he said, ‘you
mightn’t remember- the book-meaning of
the word ‘Parasite,’ but that won’t matter,’
he said, ‘so long as you remember its
political meaning, which is this, “Any man
who is in his right mind and on election
day votes for Sir Alfred Richmond is a
parasite.” ’ ”
“But, pa, that’s not in the dictionary.”
“Never mind that, Malcolm Caesar,”
snapped Allan. “We mustn’t become slaves
to any book; and Logan often has told me
that the dictionaiy is only a guide.”
“Ay, ay,” interposed Jessie, addressing her
knitting. “They all say he’s a won’erful
man, Andrew Logan. A fine man at the
school. An’ look what he’s done for pa.
It’s a terrible, terrible pity the poor man
can’t keep sober. Ay filling hisself wi’
whisky. He cost me many and many a
jar when he came aboot the hoose, learn-
ing pa the lessons. Well, well, ’tis late.
I’ll get ye some gruel. Allan, man, step to
the shed and bring the jar. Gruel wi’out
whisky is no fare for a man whose fighting
Alfred Richmond an’ all his hosts. And,
Malcolm Caesar, open the Book and read
me the story of Ruth whiles I stir the pot.”
(To be continued next week.)
The Toss.
Life, toss up your florin;
“Heads,” I call.
Regret be far and foreign
Whichever fall,
Whether for losing or winning
The stake scarce to be won—
It’s a fine flash of silver, spinning
In the gay sun.
N.S.W.
R. D. FITZ GERALD.
The Mystic Month.
A sweet, brown-bosomed wench you come to us.
October with the mirage in your eyes;
A chaplet of wild flowers on your brow,
And, poised upon your shoulder, one huge’ jar
Which holds for all the earth a royal wine,
Ruby as jewels in an emperor’s crown,
As sparkling as drowned sunlight in the sea.
The gay winged parrots are your satellites,
And little honey-birds that hang in flowers
And make a play-room of a gum-bough’s
bloom,
These follow in your The distant hills
Have woven for your sunny head a veil
Of purple mists; the ripples of a stream
Have shod your feet with crystal, and the
rain—
The wonderful white rain October knows
Has blessed your dreaming brow and laved
your hands,
Has quickened bud and twig in praise of you.
Dance, in the sun, a million butterflies!
The shy bush-rat peers round the dogwood tree
Set all in gold—the coinage of the bush—
And the wild honeysuckle blows its horn,
Glad for this mature loveliness of spring,’
Warm as the crimsons of the bottle-brush,
With amber dawns and sudden opal eyes,’
Where, in the moth-grey gloaming, round
white moons
Lift o’er the ranges, like Aladdin’s lamp
Discovered on the blue shelf of the sky.
This is the mystic month, and in its caves
Under the silken wings of brooding bats
Waiting revealing rays, great treasure lies.
Comes a pale poet to the drowsing hills,
And rubs his lamp, and weaves a song of all
He finds beyond its Open Sesame.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


n
H
cca
/T7\
t
sly
It'S
esch*§
/
A\
iIS
mm\
©


AS WE SAID BEFORE
This Page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
SHE: “Didn't you promise me not to drink any beer to-night?”
HE: “Hie — neither — hie—l did.”
SHE: “And what makes you come home in such a state?”
HE: “Wh-hic-isky!” [29/6/’89.]
The fluent and irrepressible Henry George
seldom comes to grief, but he was wrecked
once by the contumely of a coarse, unappre-
ciative audience. It w r as in San Francisco,
on the famous 4th of July, and the apostle
was firing off a great baritone ovation, which
covered every subject from infant damnation
upwards. The audience began to scream with
impatience, for the orator had gone on for
two hours and was less than half-way
through his manuscript. Then he deftly
skipped a hundred and twenty pages and
fired off his peroration. “A thousand years
hence, ivho will write for liberty? A thou-
sand years hence, who will speak for
liberty?” He made an impressive pause here,
and a sad, slow, weary voice replied from
the gallery: “I believe you will, Henry
George!” And amid a fearful shriek of
derision the orator clutched his hat, and put
his manuscript on his head by mistake, and
escaped down the back stair.
A Melbourne paper says that lib. of
bananas contains more strength than 31b of
bread. The editor probably discovered this
by treading on a banana-skin.
John Gavan Duffy, attorney and littera-
teur, eldest son of Sir Charles, has a smart
tongue. In the Vie. Parliament the other
night Mclntyre, M.l\ and millionaire,
wanted to know what warrant Gillies had
for anticipating £llO,OOO increase of probate
duty next year. “Your will,” genially re-
plied Duffy.
The marriage-contract—debt.
The afflicted town of Rockhampton (Q.)
has been stood up violently on its end by a
visit from that great man Admiral Lord
Charles Scott. He took a hurried glance at
the gaol, and the grey, clammy river, and
the hospital and the meatworks, and he was
taken to a place which smelt as if a horse had
been plunging about on a lot of ancient eggs
and old, decayed fat, and an accumulation
of aged bones was exhibited to him. and then,
as already mentioned, he burst away and
got back to his ship. Consequently he did
not see the full beauties of Rockhampton. To
do that it is best to go forth on a summer
evening, and embark in a canoe just about
that spot where the shark ends and the
alligator begins, and steal away in the
dusk up the damp and murky river. As the
miles of solemn water flit away behind the
lost canoeist he comes to long reaches of
silent woodland, and at some romantic spot
he can land in seven feet of mud, and rouse
up the father of all
odors as he wades
through the fester-
ing alluvial deposit
to the shore. Then
the best thing to do
is to kindle a fire
and hold a midnight
picnic and fish. As
a rule you build the
fire by accident on
top of some loathly
worm two feet long,
and you hear the
animal holler and
boil and burst amid
the flames. Also, it
is customary to sit
down on the sleep-
ing snake or the
great tarantula, and
as you muse on the
loveliness a cock-
roach of immense
diameter comes out
and stamps on you,
and grits his teeth
viciously. There are
1000 (one thousand)
mosquitoes in every
cubic inch of atmo-
sphere, and nobody
ever catches any-
thing except one cat-
fish ;. and when a
passing alligator
drops in, it is time
to plunge through
the mud and re-
embark. If the lost
fisherman gets back
to town by midnight
he will be gratified
to find that some re-
freshment is still
obtainable at a late
restaurant kept by
a Chinaman. The
full, elaborate loveliness of Rockhampton
can only be appreciated after prolonged
study and contemplation, but unhappily the
Admiral tore himself away prematurely be-
fore the scenery had time to soak into his
soul.
Dear Bulletin, —Knowing the deep in-
terest you take in sorcerers, witches, pro-
phets, faith-healers, magicians, cheap cures,
nervous debility, visions, nightmares and
other branches of occult science, I called
round the other day—purely on your account
—at the business premises, cavern or office
of a certain gilt and decorated prophetess
whose lair is situated in Hunter-street, Syd-
ney. It is a rocky fastness above a shop,
and a small boy who loafs underneath always
thinks that the prophetess is out, but she
isn’t. Her business name, as I learnt with
some difficulty, is Fannitza, but she may
get over that in time. I don’t think it is
incurable. Like a good, many other mules
of human extraction, I have often had a
desire to look into the future and ascertain
what was going to happen before a hard,
uncompromising Providence brought the cir-
cumstance down on my head just at the
moment when I didn’t expect it (the bed-slat
of an unsympathetic Destiny comes down a
little easier when you have got notice that
it is on the way) ; so I asked this lady to
inform me of any prominent facts which
she could grasp by the tail as they fled
through the panorama of her vision, and she
said she would. She then proceeded to get
a pack of cards ready, and to shake up some
mysterious instruments like diving-bells in
the last stage of consumption, and while she
was getting these things together I inquired
if she was born of poor but honest parents,
or anything of that sort. She replied that
she was the daughter of the lamented Sultan
Abdul-Aziz, whose remains were found scat-
tered like a forgotten emblem of mortality
on a floor at Stamboul some 13 years ago,
and that her childhood had been spent by
the shores of the Golden Horn. The worldly
effects of Abdul-Aziz, I presume, were shaken
by his successor, a harmless, melancholy
lunatic who used to weep upon the throne
and utter miserable howls in the dead of
night until the nation deposed him, also in
order to get some sleep; and thus Abdul’s
daughter was left unprovided for. The old
man had a good
many of them, too—
in fact, he was mar-
ried to such a dread-
ful extent and in
such a widespread
and reckless manner
that it was hard to
avoid the distinction
of having him for a
father, and I be-
lieve Parkes himself
only escaped that
honor by the exer-
cise of a personal
velocity which was
almost superhuman
in its tremendous
suddenness. When
the harem was in its
best days the butcher
used to leave 187
mutton-chops with
the eunuch at the
back gate every
morning, and the day
that Abdul went
into liquidation a
camel could not
move in Stamboul
without setting his
flat foot on a female
in distress. Out of
respect for these
faded glories the Sul-
tan’s wandering
dau gh ter pro phes ies
in Turkish costume.
She studied my
future carefully, and
informed me that an
aged male relative
would shortly die.
and that if I looked
after liis effects with
the energy which
always characterises
me when there are
any effects to look
after I might secure
the lot. I said that I would travel upon the
wings of the wind in my search after these
effects. I also learnt that I might despise
the machinations of a red-haired man who
was seeking to perpetrate a fraud upon me,
and from this time forth all red-haired men
who wish to perpetrate a fraud upon me
will find me more dangerous than the boa-
constrictor in his lair. The rest of my for-
tune consisted chiefly of mineral wealth
which poured on me from all quarters, and
when I bade farewell to the daughter of
Abdul-Aziz I felt as if I were treading on
a path of sovereigns and falling heavily over
stacks of banknotes. I suppose there is
something in it—in fact, I am sure there
must be, for when I got home that night
the first thing that met my eye in the back
yard was the threepenny-bit which I lost
the week before last. I am now waiting
for my aged relative to die. I have posted
two men outside his gate to watch for signs
of physical decay, and when he begins to
break up I will start to remove the property
at once.—Yours, etc., John Smith.
Young Wife (at a ball) : “You are im-
proving wonderfully as a dancer. Don’t you
remember how you used to tear my dresses?”
Young Husband: “Y-e-es ; I wasn’t buyin’
’em then.”
That mysterious person who insures his
life for a large amount and then leaves his
hat and boots on the edge of the sad sea
waves while his relatives try to collect the
policy has been very numerous of late, and
also very unfortunate. His career always
ends much the same way. Somebody goes
out and fishes in a listless way for his corpse
and doesn’t get a bite, and then the weeping
widow applies for the insurance money, and
the company says it won’t pay, and the
widow says it has got to pay, and the company
says it will blaze in Gehenna first, and then
a policeman finds the deceased in London
and brings him back. Generally he says it
isn’t him, but it always proves to be him,
after all. Evidently the whole system of
mysterious disappearance wants to be re-
vised, for a hat on the seashore is no longer
regarded as sufficient evidence. If it were
possible, by way of corroborative testimony,
to borrow a dead friend and dress him up
in the clothes of the insured, and put a
despondent letter in his pocket setting forth
that he is tired of existence, and then drop
this collateral proof in the sea about two
miles from land where it is likely to be dis-
covered after the saltwater has soaked most
of the features off, it would improve the
chances considerably; but nobody seems to
think of this plain and obvious device. Or
if the lamented person with the policy were
last seen hollering for help on the seventh
floor of a burning building where nobody
could get at him, and he could then make his
escape by a secret staircase and a subter-
ranean passage, after throwing a few human
bones—not liis own—among the debris, the
result would seem reasonably conclusive.
Again, some good effects might be arrived at
if the unhappy victim disappeared off a ship
the day before she reached land, and if he
had a friend with him to take him ashore
secretly in a large trunk and to make an
affidavit that he saw his feet vanishing over
the bulwarks at midnight when nobody was
about, we see no reason why the proceedings
should not close satisfactorily. In cases
where no friend is available it might be
advisable to pull out to sea some calm, dark
night and scream wildly for help just as a
steamer is passing, and the capsized boat
and the old, invariable hat on the shore
might possibly get through by the aid of this
additional evidence even in cases where these
bald and unconvincing utensils would fail, by
themselves, to produce the desired result.
Where the insurance amounts to, say,
£lO,OOO or more, it might even be worth
while for the defunct one to be last seen
drifting out over the broad ocean in a bal-
loon, which' would afterwards be found float-
ing empty on the waters by the astonished
sailors of a passing ship. A reliable wit-
ness could see him driven helplessly away from
the land and testify to that effect. Of course
the lost adventurer would have parachuted
to the shore and left the balloon to depart
by itself, but this need not be entered into.
The reliable witness could easily be hired
“If you gintlemen want to stand there, would yez plaze
move on!” [23/2/’88.J
for £2OO, and for an additional £5O could
phonograph the despairing shrieks of the
doomed navigator. If he could weep at the
inquest he might receive a further considera-
tion, unless he was willing to weep merely
in liis private capacity and as a friend.
Again, if the insured’s clothes and letters
could be found beside the ashes of a fire
in a wild part of the country with signs of
a struggle all around and a few clean-picked
bones, the chances are that the policy would
be paid and all the natives in the district
shot for cannibalism. In fact, the ways of
arranging the matter are numberless; and
yet with all these unbounded resources at
command the Australian keeps on leaving
his hat and boots on the seashore, and when
his widow applies for the money the manager
of the company simply gets mad at the mono-
tony of the old chestnut and throws her
indignantly into the street.
How many people know that Bathurst
burr was introduced to Australia by two
brothers named Abercrombie, who brought
over wild pampas horses from Valparaiso in
1852?
Several small boys have won honor and
fame in Victoria of late by rescuing drown-
ing companions. Boys will be buoys.
There is a feeling of profound contentment
in the air when a pawnbroker is taken in,
or a Chinaman is gone over by a tramcar,
or when a man named Moses lends money
on the personal security of a fellow-creature
who can’t be found afterwards. In a once-
prosperous New Zealand town, now given
over to dust and decay, almost all the move-
able property in the place is in the keeping
of an individual known as Aarons, and his
back room is choke-full of goods of all
descriptions. He left the window open the
other day, and a sinner, whose ultimate fate
is calculated to arouse a shudder, came along
with some friends, and, by means of a rod
and line, extracted a pair of pants, and
pawned them over again in the front shop.
Then they fished out some boots, and traded
them over Mr. Aarons’s counter. The third
bite consisted of an overcoat and a lot of
socks, and the gladsome Hebrew made a
small advance on them, and felt that busi-
ness was looking up. After this the party
gained confidence, and for three solid
hours they extracted property by a
system of Chinese cheap burglary, and sold
it back again to the confiding Judah. It
was not till they attempted to pledge the
same pants for the fourth time that the
chosen person dropped to the outrage, and
fled with a heartrending wail into the back
room to investigate. He was just in time
to see a large quantity of underclothing take
its lightsome, erratic'flight through the case-
ment : and when he rushed back to the front
shop he saw two excited feet speeding round
a distant corner—only that, and nothing
more. Then he raised his voice in a great
anathema and lamentation, and, sitting down
on a flat-iron of which the ticket had been
lost, he called on the God of Abraham, Isaac
and Jacob to annihilate the offenders, and re-
marked sorrowfully that he would have to
go home to his wife and children mit nod-
dings, and that he was a miserable pankrupt,
and had kone proke.
IN ABSENCE.
The moon and a star hung in blackness
above me—
The moon and one star,
And I thought of the friends far away, those
who love me,
Where sweet wattles are;
Where swamp-oaks, with musical, mystical
motion,
Sing low to the sedges
Who whisper the song to the river, the ocean,
Along the creek-edges;
Where grey gums stand stretching gaunt
arms to high Heaven
In piteous despair,
As ghosts who pray grimly from sin to be
shriven
By priests of the air;
While on the horizon the heat-ripples
shimmer,
Deceiving the eye,
And blue hills in distance grow dim, ever
dimmer,
And melt in the sky.
Deserted the homestead, ablaze with bright
creepers,
Its rough walls transfigured,
As Death glorifies the hard faces of sleepers
Who found Life a niggard;
Deserted the stockyard, no echo remaining
Of muster-whip’s rattle,
The shouts of the horsemen, the dogs’ angry
feigning,
The groaning of cattle.
And phantoms long fled came in order com-
pletest,
Rough beards and burnt faces—
Ah, surely the pang of the Past is the
sweetest
Pain’s pleasure embraces !
Clear eyes, that met mine with a gaze frank
and steady,
Revealing hearts true;
Strong hands, gripping friends’ hands to
show they were ready
To dare all for you.
They passed, and her form filled the shadowy
vista—
She the moon, I the star;
And my pulse leapt again as it leapt when
I kissed her,
Where sweet wattles are.
Then days of delight, when desires were all
sated—
Attained the ideal,
When the universe seemed but a figment,
created
To make rapture real;
And then days of doubt, days of anguish
and longing,
In Love’s bitter title;
Then days of despair, when black demons
came thronging
And urged black requital.
The moon shone above me, enthroned in
white splendor—
The moon and no star;
O madman, could I in that bright sphere
attend her!
Better thus," better far.
A billow of clouds surged aloft, then another,
Extinguishing light,
And Earth nestled close to the breast of her
mother.
The infinite Night.
[1893.]
A. G. STEPHENS.


A.-Z. LTD. A.-Z. LTD.
“PROBLEMS SOLVED.”
“Raising Australia from depression to PROSPERITY with greater efficiency, inspiring the true spirit of co-operation and restoring confidence. It is ir "P° ss '!’ le j t 0
exaggerate the greatness of such progress to assist those struggling with primary production and secondary industries.” — Mr. S. M. Bruce, Free Investment ot t-ap
SPECIAL NOTICE .
An Investment FREE of Brokerage.
On this subscription of capital £lOOO can be saved in brokerage and commissions, or at least 80% of the share capital to be subscribed without payment
or commissions. The full amount subscribed to be used direct for shareholders’ benefit. This will assist speedy payment of dividends in addition to discoun
purchases and supplies and commissions to be saved on hundreds of business and other transactions for members.
PLEASE USE THE APPLICATION FORM AT FOOT OF THIS PAGE, and make the brokerage, flotation expenses and establishment account almost an infimstesima
amount.
PROSPECTUS of
Alpha-Zodiac Limited
Registered under the Companies Act of Queensland 1868-1913.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £40,000.
Divided into Forty Thousand Shares of One Pound per Share,
Of which 4000 (four thousand) Shares are issued as fully paid to the organiser for his services and 20,000 (twenty thousand) Shares are issued
for public subscription at 2/6 per share on application, and 2/6 per share on allotment (in lots of 50 shares, £l2/10/- on application and
allotment), the balance, if required, to be called at not more than 1/- (one shilling) per share per month. • and
Special facilities available for payment of calls from discounts secured by shareholders with supplies obtained at much lower rates than usual competitive list prices, an
commission saved with business and professional transactions by the Company s service.
16,000 (sixteen thousand) Shares held in reserve for future issue for extensions. rnmm ercial
The opportunities afforded by the Company’s organisation for special service to agriculturists, farmers and graziers have been highly recommended by many commerci
and professional men, farmers and others in country centres. . , . p . „ = number of
Shares will be allotted in the order in which applications are received, but the Company may refuse any applications, and may in any case allot a smaller number
shares than the number applied for. Failing allotment application moneys will be returned in full. . . ,
With the issue of Shares, clients will also be accepted as members by subscription of £2/2/- per annum to receive benefits in purchasing at discount rates, «>mmis.k> •.
reduced and other savings in business and professional transactions. This amount may be saved in one month, but this membership will not carry payment of dividend
Shareholders will receive full benefits of discounts and other savings with dividends m addition.
DIRECTORATE
C. EWART-BURNHAM,
Business Organiser, HeindorfF House,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Two other Directors to be appointed by
the Shareholders.
See paragraph under Management and
Staff.
Bankers:
National Bank of Aus-
tralasia, Limited,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Solicitor:
C. D. McGREGOR,
Heindorff House,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Secretary (pro tem.):
W. L. TREWERN, as above.
Auditor:
W. L. TREWERN,
Heindorff House,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
THE OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY.
Inter alia.
To supply settlers throughout. Queensland with all their requirements for dry goods, soft goods,
hardware, ironmongeries, furniture and furnishings, wearing apparel, machinery and accessories, building
requirements and other articles grown or manufactured for general and personal use.
To supply all such requirements whenever possible at a small percentage above actual manufacturers’
prices, at much less than the ordinary market prices, by securing for Shareholders and members of the
Company, the best discounts in purchases, and by saving commissions on all expenditure of every
description in connection with trade commerce, professional and financial matters.
To give thorough and complete service in every way possible from a comprehensive inquiry bureau
so that whenever any expenditure or transaction involving financial outlay is contemplated, the strictest
investigation will be made by the Company and written advice secured from recognised authorities.
This may be the means of saving members from considerable expense and losses.
To supply clients and members with general merchandise on extended terms, and cash orders, and
otherwise finance them, thus enabling them to secure returns from crops, etc., before paying for
several supplies at discount rates.
Generally to assist settlers with finance on approved securities, but with special facilities regarding
repayments at low rates of interest and without additional cost of procuration fees and other expenses
usually charged in connection with loan and finance transactions.
To organise a department for the purchase and sale of produce from agriculturists and settlers, and
to superintend sales of members’ and clients’ properties and goods for the special purpose of saving com-
missions with no charges for advertising and circularising.
Any other objects as may be included in the Company’s memorandum and articles of association.
SPECIAL NOTE. —Members and Clients are not obliged to send produce to the Company for sals,
when receiving the benefits of purchasing and of business transactions at discount rate and of com?
missions saved.
SUBSCRIPTION.
Subscribers are offered opportunity of taking shares in lots of 50 shares, i.e.,
50 Shares application and allotment at 5/- per share, £l2/10/-
with any portion of the balance called at not more than 1/- per
share per month, but—
with a month’s savings by discounts of up to 20 per cent, or more, from money saved in the purchase
of supplies, and commissions, fees and other items on various transactions, the calls can be paid if
required, from a portion of the discounts saved each month.
The actual object with subscription is to save members paying more than £l2/10/- for £5O
worth of shares, and discounts to total of £25 in six months will leave a profit of £l2/10/- to
shareholder.
It is the firm intention to avoid, if possible, any call above this amount. An example of
savings is an order for £2O worth of supplies, or a business transaction, fulfilled with a saving otf
15 per cent, to the member.
This saving is £3, and if a call is made, a portion of the £3 can be used to pay this call, and
the member would still be in receipt of a discount. A greater percentage according to the goods
supplied, or commission saved.
In all instances the discounts are to be made available by cash payments to members and clients,
except those where such discounts are utilised for payments of calls; in such cases only the balance
will be paid in cash.
It is easily realised that each member will be able to pay much less every month< and year for the
usual amount of goods and general merchandise, and for other transactions, and yet receive fifty or
more shares with a saving from usual expenditure.
Thus, each member will receive his quota of shares, and will, ait the same time, save a considerable
sum in actual cash on his purchase of goods and other transactions.
USE OF CAPITAL.
It is not intended to purchase freehold premises until such time as a bargain purchase can be
made and the premises are able to provide a profit to the Company after allowing for interest on the
capital, depreciation and usual expenses, and it is intended to secure profits from use of capital for
members and clients before such a purchase is made, thereby considerably increasing the value of their
assets and shares.
DISCOUNTS AND DIVIDENDS.
It should be clear to shareholders that they will benefit by their investment in the company in
two ways—Firstly, in the discounts they will obtain and the other benefits mentioned above, and, secondly,
in the dividends that should become payable on the shares from the company’s operations.
THE CAPITAL IS TO BE USED FOR THE DIRECT BENEFIT OF
MEMBERS AND CLIENTS.
It is not intended to spend money on expensive catalogues and advertising, because usual list prices
are available to all, and each transaction will prove the lower prices obtainable from the Company s
Special lists can be provided, according to market fluctuations, and because stocks will not .b-
-purchased beyond monthly needs of members and clients from new shipments, the benefit of securing
the lowest discount prices at all times will be given. Everything required can be supplied througn
the organisation with promptitude and a saving from list prices and usual costs throughout.
t Tl J fitinnnO if 1U intPUflPfl
With cash orders," credit accounts and transactions involving finance, it intended^ J:o^provide
discounts whenever possible and to arrange a rate of interest comparatively small usual charges,
with these savings and other amounts on commissions and fees saved, there would be practically no
interest as usually charged above ordinary market prices and business transactions.
Purchase and Sale of Produce, Stock Agency and By-products, Property Department, will be
extended with Town and Country Depots at an early date.
MANAGEMENT AND STAFF.
The choice of Directors for selection by shareholders will enable the election of a Director to be
appointed in charge of the Mail Order and Country Buying and Dispatch Department, for the complete
satisfaction of members and clients, and suitable men are available to conduct this department with
strictest economy. . ,
The Business Organiser has had an extensive experience in London with one ot the largest wnoiesaie
and retail houses Empire. He has also had considerable experience in connection with business
organisation and management in Queensland and other States of the Commonwealth. This experience,
together with- his knowledge of country trade and requirements, will be invaluable to the Company.
® . . V. . ■» -r-v i 1 1-1 .1 .1 n.tnilnWn ■pT'ATVI AO H V»1 O TVI DTI
Machinery
Electrical
Wireless
and
7J% to 25%
10% to 33^°/
10% to 40%
10% to 40%
for members and
For the Produce and Property Agency section, good service is available from capable men,
excellent system of Country Agencies can be arranged with economic method to the great benefit of
members and clients.
FINANCIAL AND ADVISORY.
It is intended to retain the services of legal advisers and accountants by contract agreement to
give thorough and complete assistance to members and clients. _ ...
Special advice upon all matters of trade, commerce and for professional and financial assistance,
also general items of household or personal importance, available without additional cost other than the
fee of membership to non-shareholders.
GENERAL.
The difference in retail and wholesale prices. A few lines of various commodities shown in a
general way are in approximate rates as follows: —-
Groceries .. .. 5% to 20% Boots and shoes 10% to 30%
Furniture .. .. 5% to 40% Machinery and
General Hardware 10% to 25% Motor Access. 10% to 40%
Drapery, etc. .. 10% to 60% Mercery .. . . 10% to 40%
All Household requirements from
All Farm and Agriculturists from .. ...
A much larger list can be given and in detail.
The list shows a margin that will cover great savings from discounts secured
clients. Allowing for wholesalers and retailers to deduct freights, etc., from profits, there is yet a good
margin for discounts, because the Company will have equal choice of markets and manufacterers’ cost
prices. Freights are usually charged, but it is possible to save for clients from 5 per cent, to 20
per cent, (freight charges paid) in more instances than oan be quoted here. There are 10,001) and
more items within the scope of our duties to be carried out for clients and save a large total in
discounts, commissions and charges for general or special transactions.
Mention must be made of available insurance and assurance transactions at rates less commissions
payable, and other financial transactions beneficial to clients.
The supply of all general commodities at a discount to be secured much below usual keen list
prices can effect a great saving for every member of the family.
Mail orders are supplied and upon comparison with any catalogues the estimate of an annual total
to be saved will surprise the majority of members and clients.
Shareholders commence dealings practically immediately to secure discounts and benefits from other
departments with progress extensions of the Company.
Members and clients also receive this privilege upon payment of the annual fee of £2/2/-, and
this amount can'be saved in one month (from purchases to a total between £lO to £2O) according
to the class and description of supplies or commissions saved.
Supervision by the Company is worth from £25 to £2OO p.a. and more in savings to clients.
The Company’s service is available for complete assistance in every manner and form of value to
Shareholders and Members in such ways that costs, time and money may be saved with country or
town transactions, and when visiting Brisbane the country members can receive the best advice and
help obtainable as required.
Contra, accounts are not popular and therefore it is the intention to pay cash for produce forwarded
to the Company.
, AGREEMENTS.
Agreement with Mr. C. Ewart-Burnham on employment as General Manager and for the issue to
him of four thousand shares fully paid up to £l.
Agreement with Company’s Solicitor for retainer for legal advice and services.
Agreement with Company’s accountant for retainer for services.
Drafts of the above agreements, together with the Memo, and Articles of Association, are available
for inspection at the office of the Company’s Solicitor.
BROKERS AND BROKERAGE.
Brokerage of 5 per cent, for sale of shares by registered Brokers and others who may be appointed,
if services are required apart from advertising and circularising by mailing lists.
The flotation expenses and advertising expenses to be paid by the Company in the usual manner
and with a large response received from mailing list of prospective subscribers and advertising brokerage
will be saved.
It is anticipated that about 80 per cent, of the shares can be subscribed for without payment of
brokerage.
No brokerage will be paid on shares subscribed in response to advertising or circularising, but in
such cases only the actual cost of such advertising or circularising will be paid to the Brokers
appointed. This will effect a great saving to the Company.
APPLICATION FORM.
To the Secretary,
ALPHA-ZODIAC, LIMITED,
Ileindorff House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
Dear Sir, —
I hereby apply for lot of 50 shares in the above Company at 2/6 on application and 2/6 on allotment. I enclose hereicith the sum of ...... •.•••
/ agree to pay the sum of 2/6 per share on allotment, and to pay the balance in calls of not more than one shilling per share per month, if required
any calls be made, such calls at the Directors’ discretion may be paid from a portion of the discounts and commissions obtained or saved through me
by the Company.
Company’s service.
. ~ and
Should
NAME
(Mr., Mrs. or Miss)
ADDRESS
WITNESS
DATE ; ••
All cheques to be made payable to Alpha-Zodiac, Limited, and crossed not negotiable. Cash payments to be sent by registered letter only.


6 s '2£v,
£
3
/
I
fi.'-lrf’']®
HOHNSY " “
- /BOOK op'TRAINS
The 1930 Hornby
Book of Trains
The 1930 edition of this
famous book contains a
number of interesting railway
articles in addition to full
colour illustrations of all
Hornby Trains, Rolling Stock
and Accessories.
You may obtain a copy
from any dealer, price 6d.
If you have any difficulty
send six penny stamps and
the names and addresses of
three of your chums direct
to us for a copy, post free.
Prices of Hornby
Trains from
10/- to 160/-
Controlling traffic up and down the line ;
signalling and clearing goods and passenger
trains ; working points and cross-overs—that
is a signalman’s job, whether he is operating on
a real railway or a Hornby Railway.
The fascination of a Hornby Railway lies in
its true-to-life construction. It is a real railway
in miniature, for it enables almost every operation
employed in up-to-date railway practice to be
carried out realistically.
Hornby clockwork and electric trains are the
best that you can buy. The Locomotives are
built for heavy loads and long runs ; the Rolling
Stock is strong, smooth-running and durable ;
the Accessories are realistic and correct in pro-
portion. If you do not yet possess a Hornby
Railway, now is the time to start. Take Dad to
your dealer’s store and show him the Hornby
Trains to-day.
HORNBY TRAINS
Wholesale Agents in Australia:
E. G. PAGE & GO. (DEPT. U), 52, Clarence St., SYDNEY (P.o. Box 1832 K)
MANUFACTURED BY MECCANO DTD., EIVERPOOE, ENGLAND.
COMMONWEALTH
Conversion and Redemption
LOAN
Interest:
6 per cent, for 2 years.
5f per cent, for 10 years Price of Issue—Par.
per cent, for 20 years
CONVERSION OFFER.
Persons holding Stock or Bonds in the 6 per cent. Commonwealth
Loan maturing on December 15, 1930, are invited to convert into
a new Loan.
Such persons may either convert into a 6 per cent. Loan maturing
on December 15, 1932; or into a 5| per cent. Loan maturing on
December 15, 1940; or into a 5j per cent. Loan maturing on
December 15, 1950.
Conversion will be effected as on December 15, 1930, and persons
who convert will receive the usual half-yearly interest payment due
on that date, at the rate of 6 per cent, per annum.
After December 15, 1930, interest on all converted holdings, at the
relative rate, will be paid half-yearly on June 15 and December 15.
CASH SUBSCRIPTIONS.
Cash subscriptions are invited to this New Loan, and the cash will
be used for the redemption of Commonwealth and State Securities.
Subscriptions may either be made to a 6 per cent. Loan maturing on
December 15, 1932; or a 5| per cent. Loan maturing on December
15, 1940; or a per cent. Loan maturing on December 15, 1950.
On all subscriptions to the Loan, interest at the relative rate, calcu-
lated from the date of lodgment of the money to December 15,
1930, will be paid on December 15, 1930. After December 15,
1 930, interest will be paid half-yearly on June 1 5, and December 1 5.
Subscriptions may either be paid in full at the time of application,
or a deposit of 1 0 per cent, may be lodged with the application and
the balance paid in one amount at any time up to Monday,
December 15, 1930.
Interest will be subject to Commonwealth Taxation, but will be
FREE OF STATE INCOME TAX.
Sinking Fund contributions will be paid into the National
Debt Sinking Fund in accordance with the requirements of Common-
wealth law.
Bonds will be issued for £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and £lOOO. Stock
will be inscribed for £lOO and multiples of £lO above £lOO.
The issue is an investment authorised by the Trustees Acts of the
several States.
Applications may be lodged at any Bank, Savings Bank, Money
Order Post Office, or with any member of a recognised Stock
Exchange
Commonwealth Treasury.
J. A. LYONS,
Acting Treasurer.
The Man Who Bought a Kingdom.
OSMAR E. WHITE
WRITES ANOTHER STORY OF THRILLING AD YEN-
•TUBE IN THE UTTERMOST PARTS OF EX-GERMAN NEW GUINEA.
UM,” said Grinwald, staring queerly at
the back of the man who lurched out
through the swing-doors into the
white sunlight of the street. “So that’s the
end of the story.”
“Did you know the poor devil?” someone
asked.
Although the “did” was significant, Grin-
wald made no reply. One does not speak m
the present tense of so pitiable a being as
one whom drink and betel-nut have mas-
tered on the beach at Salamoa.
“I dare say,” said Peterborough, the trader,
“to recognise an old friend who had come
down to that would give a man the very
deuce of a jolt. It has never been within
my experience, thank God!” He looked at
Grinwald hopefully.
“Um,” said Grinwald again. “The end of
the story. I often wondered.”
“Then you did know him?”
“Eh? Oh, yes, I knew him. But I’m
damned thankful he didn’t know me just
now.”
Peterborough nodded sympathetically, and
the tourist Englishman said, with the char-
acteristic banality of his tribe: “It’d be
rather embarrassin’ to have a gin-soaked
blighter like that weepin’ on your shoulder.
Personally, I can’t understand a man de-
gradin’ himself so far —whatever might have
been the cause.”
The trader laughed, a faint note of irony
in his voice. “Of course you can’t,” he said
tolerantly. “But, then, you’ve never travelled
steerage on a tropical liner. You’ve never
been broke on the beach. Fever on an empty
belly never ruined your nerves and your self-
respect. He was a friend of yours, Grinwald ?”
The little, tanned man shook his head.
“No,” he said, “not a friend. But I knew
him when he told more than five thousand
people how they were to live, absolutely un-
challenged. Now he’s begging the pence to
buy a quart of rice-wine and forgetfulness.
Do you want to listen?”
They said they did. When Matthew Grin-
wald tells a yarn it is rare, and worth while
hearing.
* * # *
You know (he said) that when we copra-
men learned that German New Guinea was
ours—to keep—at the end of the war, we
were bitten with the quick-development bug.
I don’t say for a moment that we have made
the progress the Germans would have made
under similar circumstances, but, all in all,
the north coast is not the unknown strip
of territory it was twelve years ago.
During the war I was doing administrative
work up here with the A.C., since recurring
fever had let me out of the real thing. But
when the Mandate was established, the new
Administration decided that it didn’t like
my methods with natives. Hergenshriner
Bros., with an eye to quick profits, decided
that they did. They even thought I might
be able to make cocoanuts pay in the post-
war slump, and gave me eight hundred acres
in the Madang district. The experiment was
successful. Being truly commercial, Hergen-
shriner Bros, weren’t satisfied, and decided
that I was the man to do the spadework in
a new district they had heard of from
trochus-shell men.
Hergenshriner senior—the old woman-lov-
ing rip with the white Kaiser mo—came
down especially to make me the proposition.
“Grinwald,” he said, soaking up my best
whisky like his weight in dry sponges, “we’re
thinking of getting ground for a few thou-
sand trees in the New Carlsbad district. I.
want you to go down with a load 'of trade-
goods and get well in with the villagers.”
“Me?” I asked. “Oh, no, Mr. Hergen-
shriner. I’m not going down to the New
Carlsbad.”
He went on with his instructions as if
I had not been there. Hergenshriner made
his money that way.
“And when you’ve done that,” he said,
“I want you to make the preliminary survey
of the best five hundred acres about. Of
course, Grinwald, you would know whether
or not trees are likely to pay in the district.
We’ll be guided entirely by your report.
Still, remember that we don’t turn the
business up in the face of ordinary difficul-
ties.”
“Hang it,” I said, “don’t you know what
happened to the Markham expedition down
there?”
“Yes,” said Hergenshriner, “I know all
about Markham. But if you are as big a
damn fool among natives as he is, you’d
better hand me your resignation right away.”
Markham, by the way, was not a damn
fool, but Hergenshriner’s ideas are fixed. I
didn’t contradict him.
His last words to me (the persuasive old
devil!) were: “Keep your head, Grinwald.
If you keep your head and use your wile
there’s no brown skin between here and
Koepang can put it over you.”
Somehow the words came back to my mind
the morning young Smythe, the cadet, and
I landed upon Na-pir-eta beach. The day
was bright and sunny and quiet. The beach,
skirting a heavy palm forest, was as pretty
a spot as you could wish for on God’s earth.
I was all primed up with an armful of special
trade-goods and on the look-out for a welcom-
ing Kanaka or two. Then, without warning,
a short “quarrel” whistled past my ear and
went skittering away into the water. I
dropped the looking-giasses and curtain-rings
as if they had been a load of tree-snakes and
ran like very hell for the butt of a big pan-
danus palm fifty yards to the right. In ten
seconds the arrows were whining and fizzling
all round, and in the half-minute Smythe and
four crew boys were down and spewing blood
over the white coral sand.
That old Martini of mine spat whining
lead until the barrel burned my hand —
sprayed the blank green wall of undergrowth
ahead until the land breeze caught up the
mangled leaves of arsenic creeper and sent
them fluttering in a shower, spots of bril-
liant emerald, down to the water itself. When
the palm of my left hand began to blister,
I stopped firing and broke out a new cart-
ridge packet. Now and then there had been
a shriek to prove that some of the hollow-
ttpsed oS’s had found a home; but not once
did I see so much as a square inch of brown
hide.
I lay quiet for ten minutes, wondering if
the brown devils who lay hidden behind the
veil of foliage were scattering, or were still
waiting for the head Hergenshriner had
advised me to keep. Very cautiously I slipjied
my topee on to the end of the rifle barrel and
thrust it out into the open. In as many
seconds, half a dozen thin, barbed sticks
quivered in the tree-trunk. So, rather than
lie there all morning in the blistering sun,
waiting for the rush that was sure to come
sooner or later, I sent another hail of bullets
inland and, jumping clear, sped down the
beach, leaping and turning and twisting.
Not until then did they break cover and come
after me.
An inrushing wave twisted the stern-sheets
of the boat from my hands as 1 strove
desperately to force her into deep water. And
before I could clamber over the thwarts, 1
was smothered under a weight of sweating,
stinking bodies, choking for life in the shal-
lows of the receding comber. An old oyster-
knife game in handy in that scrap; but one
fellow was so tough that the blade caught
fast between his ribs. A paw-wood club
caught me a glancing tap over the temple,
and the cloud of misty red before my eyes
faded slowly into the deep, cold black oi’
unconsciousness.
I came to my senses in pitchy darkness.
You fellows may have heard of the head-
ache with which a man wakes after he has
been batted over the head with a black-jack.
AH I can say is you have to experience it
to appreciate it. It seemed as if my skull
were split clean in two and the brain pul-
sating through the ragged rent from ear to
ear. And all the while I watched the lines
of skulls and tattooed faces gleaming
luminously out of the darkness. Somehow or
other they didn’t worry me then, though I
stretched up a shaky hand along the wall an
hour or so later, and scraped a finger-end of
faint light from one.
The air was heavy and warm ; and it stank
subtly, of native food and flowers. Near by
the drums of a village were beating and the
women wailed out the death-song, like so
many mournful dogs baying the moon.
It was a bad night. That’s all I care
to say about it, even now.
I awakened from the last of a dozen fitful
dozes with the golden sunlight streaming on
my eyes from a chink in the palm-thatcli
overhead. Under me was a grass mat,
stretched between four uprights in the liard-
beaten earth floor, where the light and
shade made a merry pattern. The hut was
partitioned with /cando-webbing and mud-
daub ; and it was peculiarly clean and well
ordered. The walls were hung with plain,
banner-like strips of whitish bark, and in
one. corner were a roughly-made table and
chair! That made me sit up and consider
the room carefully. Next, I saw a heavy,
steel-framed mirror hanging opposite the
burrow-like opening which served as a door,
and by its side, strung by one battered
handle, a tin-shaving mug with a razor. A
white man, eh? I wondered. Something
almighty queer had happened since those bush-
men hit me on the head down on the beach.
Well, I was not wondering long. I had
just clambered up to commence an experiment
in walking, when a light-looking fellow in a
native lap-lap and necklaces came in and
looked at me, grinning. I was ruminating on
the chances of reaching the mirror and taking
a shot at him —just to make sure there was
no mistake —when he spoke.
“Good morning,” he said, normal as you
could imagine.
“Who the hell are you?” I asked, all
shaken to blazes.
He grinned again. “That may take a bit of
telling,” he said, quite calm —and twitching
his bare, brown shoulders in a movement
which you might have recognised as a shrug-
had there been a shirt over them. “Are you
feeling all right?”
“So-so,” I said. “What happened to
those bushmen?”
“Nothing that I know of, unless they’re
bilious after the big-fella sing-sing at the
funerals last night. You heard the drums,
of course?”
I shivered a little. “Yes,” I said, “I
heard the drums —and saw the devils. Phos-
phorus paint?”
He burst out laughing. “By the laws and
canons of the land,” he said, “genuine devils.
But between you and me, yes, luminous
paint.”
He squatted down, native fashion, eyeing
me pretty carefully—as I was him.
“Well,” I said after a couple of minutes
calculating silence, “what about it?”
“Who are you?” he asked abruptly.
“Name of Grinwald,” I told him. “Down
from Madang.”
“Why?”
“Looking over the ground for a copra com-
pany.”
His eyes, palish they were, glinted.
“Well-1,” he said slowly, curling his mouth
at me again, “I can save you the trouble.
Trees don’t grow well about here.”
“Who says so?” I snapped.
The fellow’s damnable coolness, squatting
there like a little copper god in his native
finery, greasy hair half-way down his back,
was beginning to raise the bristles on the
back of my neck.
“I do,” he said, cold as an icicle.
“Thanks.”
He wriggled a foot or two nearer.
“Well,” he drawled again, “you ought to
—seeing that I’m the big ju-ju about here
and I saved your hide for you.”
“You didn’t save Smythe’s hide,” I said
bitterly, remembering the sprawled, pathetic
figure of the boy whose life blood stained the
white sand to a patch of crimson.
(Continued on next page.)


Backache /
—that’s KIQNEV rROUBL
SO IS YOUR
RHEUMATISM
WHY THIS REMEDY
MUST BENEFIT YOU
Rheumatism and Backache are the most
serious of all health troubles. Starting with
twitching of the muscles, stiffness in the
joints, pains in the back, the trouble gradually
goes on until many are badly crippled and
cannot go about their daily work. Then,
too, the excess of poisonous acids in the
blood has a serious weakening effect on the
heart.
If you are tortured by the daily misery of
rheumatic pains, chronic pain at night-iime
when trying to rest, pain when going about
your work or pleasure, if you find limbs and
joints swollen, if your blood is being poisoned
with excess of uric acid, here is a doctor-
recommended remedy that one-time sufferers
say is “ wonderful ” in the way it quickly
ends chronic pain. De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills are a sure, safe and certain
remedy for all rheumatic conditions or any
body or joint pains arising from Kidney
Trouble. A short course of De Witt s
will quickly rid you of your pain and bring
you back youthful vigour and vitality, and,
remember, you purchase your supply on
satisfaction or money-back conditions. Every
chemist stocks De Witt’s Kidney and Blad-
der Pills at 3/6. Get your supply to-day.
It will be the best investment you will ever
make. The young and the oldest can take
De Witt’s Pills with confidence. No danger-
ous drugs, but a scientific preparation that
will do you good from the first dose. Get
' De Witt’s ” and get health.
Jgjf
OVER FORTY YEARS OF SUCCESSFUL RESULTS
• For over 40 years De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills have been on
sale all over the world. Everywhere the success of these wonderiul
Pills is being consolidated daily. Thousands and thousands—-a never-
ending stream—of letters testifying to the efficacy of De Witts Pi s
are pouring in from one-time sufferers who have become convinced
that there is no finer remedy. That is why you, too, should give
“ De Witt’s ” a trial now.
OUR guarantee.
Every box of De Witt’s Pills
sold bears this definite guar-
antee that twenty-four hours
after the first dose you will see
results. If this is not so, re-
turn to the proprietors the
partly-used bottle and your
money will be refunded in full.
De Witt’s Pills are invalu-
able in cases of :
RHEUMATASM, LUMBAGO
BACKACHE, SCIATICA
PAINS IN THE JOINTS
and all forms of KIDNEY
and BLADDER TROUBLE
“That had nothing to do with me,” he
said sharply. “Anyway, you were a damned
fool to land on a north-coast beach in broad
daylight. You took a risk and you paid for
it. as you would have paid for it anywhere
else along this coast.”
“You’re white, aren’t you?” I asked.
I saw the sinuous brown fingers open and
close convulsively. “No,” he said grimly,
“I’m not.”
We sat in silence again. Then I asked
him what had happened to the rest of my
“boys,” who had scattered at the first arrow-
volley—and Sung, the Kong-Kong cook.
“Leg-roped,” he said succinctly. “The dead
’uns have gone for kai. And, by the way,
most of the men are pretty keen to kai you.
That was a fair scrap you put up yesterday.”
For a moment I wondered how a desire
to kai me and the scrap of yesterday were
connected. Then I remembered that the
average busli-Kanaka believes implicitly that
his defeated enemy’s skill in battle will pass
on to him, provided he makes a meal from
a portion of the aforementioned loser. Some-
how I would rather the blue-eyed tamboran
had not recalled the information.
“Of course,” I said confidently, “you are
not permitting it —since you’ve gone so far.”
I said it sarcastically, but somehow it
seemed a vital question. He ignored it, and
settled himself more comfortably on the floor.
“I say,” he began conversationally; “just
what chance is there of plantations starting
down here?”
“I don’t know,” I said downright; “but
when I get back there is going to be hell
to pay for that killing business. If you’re
dug in as the tamboran down here you should
have had better sense than to allow the
faithful the luxury of ripping up two survey
parties. You needn’t think that they have
forgotten about Markham.”
“Dug in?” he said thoughtfully—half to
himself, it seemed. “Dug in.... a king-
dom !” He smiled almost dreamily.
“You’re white,” I said again, risking it.
“I was,” he said steadily, meeting my eyes.
“Why ‘was’?”
“It isn’t an unusual story.” His voice
had become near-friendly. “You’ve heard
it a dozen times before, in the pubs, for the
price of a skinful of cheap booze. Every
man has his assets and his liabilities. He
is born with them. Somehow I could never
balance my books on the right side. The
things I had never counted so much as the
things I didn’t have. Society doesn’t want
a fellow who can’t measure up to its own
standards. And when I learned that —a
pretty bitter lesson it was—l just went
morally bust, like any other man who’s poor
at the business of living. Only—l skipped.
Skipped to where my liabilities didn’t matter
a damn and my assets were of the greatest
value. I came here. I count here, because
they look up to me. I can teach them things
that make life a bit easier—scare them out
of their worst barbarities with little tricks
your world would ' scoff at as cheap and
worth nothing. You see, I came here and
found that I had, all unknowing, bought
a kingdom for two quid!”
“You’re beyond me,” I said, staring-
wondering if the man wasn’t a little weak in
the head. Maybe he was, in one way.
He smiled. “Maybe,” lie said, liis voice
hardening again. “But this isn’t beyond
you. If a plantation starts down this way
my number’s up. The first comers’ll be up
against a tough proposition—l’ll see to that.
But they’ll win in the end. I don’t want
them. Follow?” ,
“Yes,” I said wearily. “I understand.”
“All' right; then you’ll understand my
proposition. Go back and tell them any
damned thing you like. Say the country’s
rotten. Say the trees would go under to
fungus. But keep them out of here.”
The man was mad! His blue eyes were
glittering—boring through my head.
“What in God’s name”....l began. But
he went on rapidly.
“And if you don’t give me your solemn
oath you’ll do that—your word of honor that
you’ll say nothing about this business other
than that your mate and boys were killed
by hill busiimen— hill bushmen, understand!
—events can take their course.”
“You’re ratty!” I snapped.
“Perhaps. But you’ll be dead if you don’t
give me that promise.”
“What’s to prevent me doubling on you
and having a punitive expedition down here?
You’re a madman !”
His eyes twinkled shrewdly. “I’m risk-
ing that,” he said slowly. “And I’ve worked
it out this way. If you don’t go back there’ll
bo a punitive expedition down here in any
case. If you go back and recommend the
establishment of a plantation—or tell your
story—things come to the same in the long
run. On the other hand, if you go back
and say that the district’s impossible, I win.
I’m offering you your life to say that. Any-
way”—he sneered faintly—“you look like
one of those fools who think that most
crimes on the calendar are permissible, bar
breaking one’s word. I know the type.”
“If I refuse?” I asked.
“I turn you over to Tai-er, the chief.”
“And let him settle me?”
“He’d have settled you, anyway, if I
hadn’t been here. Yes.”
“That’s murder.” ,
“Maybe. I’ve seen worse things done
which there’s no law to punish—strangling
a man’s soul with ridicule because he doesn’t
see eye to eye with you; or because it’s
worth money.”
“If I give the promise,” I asked, “does It
buy off Sung and the remaining boys?”
He was silent for a minute. “Yes,” he
said finally, “I can do it. Provided you
pitch a tale that will stop too much talking
at the other end. Yes.”
I did some remarkably rapid thinking
during the. next minute or two. The .blue-
eyed tamboran meant what he had said. Not
only his present attitude of deathly earnest-
ness, but his past actions _ proved it. Any-
way, I argued, Hergenshriner could get as
good tracts of country anywhere down the
coast, and I was by no means decided
whether or not a promise given in such cir-
cumstances could not be decently repudiated.
He had calculated that risk, too.
“All right,” I said soberly. “I agree.”
He stood up with one movement from the
hips. I had never .seen a white man do it
before.
“You promise,” he said. “Give your word
of honor as a gentleman and a white man
that you will advise against planting in
this district?” , „ ~
The deliberate irony—and the effective-
ness —of those words, “white man, ’ was not
lost on me. The man might be mad, but
he had a shrewd brain. Paradoxically, 1
almost admired him.
“Look here,” I said hurriedly, “why not
sling in this rotten business and come out
with me on the ketch? You can’t last here
—always.”
His thin, wide mouth curled m an acid
grin. “You promise?” he asked.
“I promise,” I said. “But damn it, I. ..
I could stake you for a while, if you liked. _
The grin widened then, incredibly; and
he broke into a laugh, gurgling at some jest
I did not understand.
“All right,” he said, still laughing; you
keep on the uplift racket with natives and
beachcombers. I’m the big ju-ju here.”
He turned on his heel to pull aside one
of the strips of bark on which the devil-
devil faces were painted and groped m a
shallow wall recess.
“My assets,” he said, laughing again and
nodding down at the small black suitcase
which he had withdrawn. He stooped to
negotiate the low door in the .grass wall.
“Hang on while I treat with Tai-er,’ he
called, backward. So the man was mad.
Assets, eh ? *
Well, iii the end he worked the trick.,
When I got down to the ketch, she had been
beached and stripped of everything that
could be carried, or wrenched off her. I
hadn’t so much as an extra shirt left, and
the one I wore —or had worn —was mostly
somewhere out in the iCoral Sea.
The man who purchased a kingdom for
two quid—l had begun thinking of him as
that—came down to the beach with a crowd
of his befcathered. stinking subjects and
helped us warp the little vessel off at flood
tide. He told me that if I sent the Kong
and a couple of boys up to his hut he would
make the spoilers disgorge my personal
effects and the instruments as a tribute, and
make me a present . of them. 'He was as
good as his word. . < ;
In an hour the two mission boys came
back with an unopened portmanteau, my
portable gramophone, a rifle, i a log-book
badly tattered—and the spare: compass.
Sung was still missing. I began to worry.
Kon-gs are considered remarkably fine eal>
inc in certain parts of the archipelago. I
waited for half an hour while the boys
worked like beavers to replace missing cord-
ace. Still no Sung. The beach was quiet
as the grave. . Nothing had stirred since the
bushmen had disappeared.
A few minutes later a chorus of most fear-
ful shrieks broke out a quarter-mile up the
beach, and Sung came, flying over the sand
with half the village at his heels. In one
hand he gripped my tattered topee and in
the other—the tamboran’s little black bag.
Sung, with one desperate leap, landed in
the boat as we topped the first wave. With
the rifle-butt I clubbed a warrior who was
a scant five feet behind him. , .
I never saw mission natives work so hard
in my life as those boys of mine did to
get the ketch under way. We made the
reef entrance with the last drop of petrol
for the auxiliary. The villagers had souven-
ired the reserve cans, and, I hope, blew them-
selves up with the stuff. Once outside the
fringe of old coral, we lay-to until sail count
be got on her with any degree of safety.
Meanwhile the exhausted Kong-man had
explained to me in breathless bgche-de-mer
that the tamboran was a most damnab.e
thief. Had he not promised to give me the
things that the triple-cursed black men had
stolen? Why, then, had he hidden my black
bag under a mat in his house? He, Ti Sung,
had had to obtain it by stealth, and by an
ill-chance the worthless one had seen him
and roused the village as he ran. I did
not bother to explain to poor Sung—who
by the way, was the worst cook-boy and
the most faithful servant I have ever had—-
that the black bag was not mine.
I knelt down on the deck and examined
the tangible assets of the man who had
bought a kingdom for two quid. Gradually
the light of understanding dawned on me as
I handled the queer collection of rubbish.
Then I came on a little pigskin poke full
of magnificent white-water pearls. They
rolled out over ;the rough deck-planking,
dazzling my incredulous eyes. There were,
enough, there 1 to purchase the trees and build-
ings and land I tended at Madang, locx,
stock and barrel. Assets, eh? The man
who purchased his kingdom for two quid
did not want for. assets—anywhere.
Very slowly and carefully I gathered up
the little globules of' milky brilliance and
yelled to: the steersman to bring the ship
back into the wind. We cruised to and fro
off the inlet for an hour until a dozen
rhythmically paddling warriors came out in
a dug-out with the tamborun of Na-pir-eta.
sitting astraddle the, blunt bows.
“Here!” I yelled, tossing the black bag
to him. He caught it and raised one hand
silently.
Sung let the mainslieet go, and we swung
off across the breeze, gathering way fast to
the northward.
* * * *
' Grinwald, who knows the value of a tan-
talising pause, stopped abruptly. The tour-
ist Englishman was watching him, lips
slightly parted. There was silence in the
airy bar at Ivow Loon Joe’s. “Well, well t
he asked impatiently.
“That’s the end,” said Grinwald, “or.
rather, you saw the end half an houf ago.
The poor devil who came in here cadging
for the price of a drink was the man who
purchased a kingdom for two quid.”
“Of course,” said the Englishman peev-
ishly; “I know that. But the black bag?”
“Contained a strip of torn canvas and the
white-water pearls when I threw it to him.
Somehow I didn’t want to hang on to them,
young Smythe notwithstanding. But I had
tipped the second-hand conjuring kit, the
electric torch and the pot of luminous paint
overboard.” .
“Revenge? No. I wanted to give him
a chance —honestly. I- thought he would
get out and make a new start among his
kind. I didn’t, know that, when I stole his
power I'had destroyed his actual assets aim
saddled him with his actual liabilities. lin
sorry now. That’s , all I can say.”


' "'M A
-eesim
'• V. e...' / j
mmm
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 4 1 4.
•r
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents—EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House/’ 485 Ron ike Street. Melbourne.
South Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
“THE AGE”
Established 185).
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you neglect to use “Tbe Age” for adver-
tising, you miss one of the most vital features
in your Victorian campaign, and no advertiser
who is spending large sums to produce,
advertise and sell an article can afford to
take that risk.
“THE AGE"
has over 122,000 daily subscribers who have
confidence in their chosen publication, and
because it is a newspaper that not only goes
into the home but reaches the very heart of
the household, the advertiser who places his
products or service on record in its columns
is assured of dependable reader value.
“The Age" publishes over 1,000,000
advertisements annually.
Audited Daily net circulation
122,501.
Bates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
47 Fleet Street, London.
A 65% increase in 5 months
THE NET SALES OF
m*
0k&
T
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
GOUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWiCK.
Chartered Accountants (Aust.)»
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (AustJ.
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. s Thompson, Lisgar House,
3C Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
Clk mrniiry
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
(Established 1854)
The "Mercury” is the only Metro-
politan Newspaper in the State.
Its news services, articles, typo-
graphy are unexcelled in Australia.
THE "MERCURY” COVERS
TASMANIA
And its circulation exceeds the
combined figures of the dailies in
Tasmania. Delivered by fast motor-
cars, it reaches Launceston (121
miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before break-
fast.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBUSIIERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
Clk Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
Ihe Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price lid.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.'
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Do You Know ?
“The Week”
has special columns on the following
matters of interest to the man on the
land.
Agriculture
The Orchard
The Piggery
Poultry
Dairying
In the Garden
The Grazier
Sugar Ind
Nature Notes
And many more items that will
interest and benefit him by reading.
Price 3d. per copy
From All Newsagents, or
14/6 Per Annum, Post Paid, from
THE TELEGRAPH
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane, Queensland,
who also issue “The Telegraph*
daily—l 2 noon, 3 p.m. and 5 p.m
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co,,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Confident
cheerful
active!
FULL of life—optimis-
tic—vigorous—thanks
to Beecham’s Pills.
Beecham’s Pills prevent
wastes accumulating and
keep the system free from
poisons. They engender
a normal, natural action
of the stomach, liver and
bowels.
Beecham’s are purely
vegetable—safe—effective
—certain.
BEECHAMS
I PILLS
" Worth
a
guinea
a box”
&
the Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner “Weekly
Evening Express” obtainable from
w. r. rolph & Sons,
Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
MR. M. S. ALLAN,
426 National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
' MR. W, G. DOUGAN,
726 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please jorward The Bulletin jor 12, 6, 8 months jrom
for which I enclose
NAME
ADDRESS ••
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
Yf
I>P
0°
5 e
s®
o
>3
V'
\V'
$r
• ' #Lv> V o<
6*'
B <s*vf *' J
'*'■--‘fku*"


i
m
1
IS
Know All These Facts About
the New ESSEX Challenger
It is a big roomy ESSEX
—Longer wheelbase (113 inches)
and wider rear tread give extra seat
width and legroom to accommo-
date 5 passengers with ease.
It is smooth and Powerful
—Compensated Super-Six crank-
shaft, weight-matched aluminium
pistons and connecting rods; Lan-
chester torsion neutraliser; rubber
motor frame mounting; all parts
balanced from motor to rear axle.
Its Super-Six Motor gives this
Essex speed, power, acceleration
and stamina rarely found in cars
of higher price.
It is Sturdy and Strong
—Axles, clutch and transmission
are oversize. Frame side members
are one-third stiffer with an extra
flange in side members and five
cross members. Oil pump of double
capacity supplies oil to both ends
of the motor. Front axle is cross-
ribbed to resist braking stresses.
Four - wheel brakes are internal
expanding with moulded lining,
effective and waterproof. Struc-
tural body parts with braces are
of steel for silence and permanence.
If is a Complete ESSEX
—-Included in the list prices are:
4 double-acting hydraulic
shock absorbers; Manually
controlled radiator shutters;
Electrolock and motometer
on dash; Electric oil and
petrol gauge on dash; New
simplified toggle windscreen
control; Double cowl venti-
lators; Adjustable seats and
" steering column.
> PROVERBIAL, SO GREAT IS ITS
NEW ES!
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales. . DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
136 Phillip Street, Sydney.
Victoria NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
Queensland ...... WHATiyiORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia . . MOTORS, LTD.,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
Tasmania. ....... H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
53 Bathurst Street, Hobart
