

>AGAINt
KINGSFORD SMITH
to
<<yy.
m
ill
l
•y-j
USED
PLUME
AND
Mobiloil
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY.LTD.
REG 1 ?
The Bulletin
ou4jU9 s<rfvbo io-olaM, .
Vol. 51.—N0. 2647.
Wednesday, November 5, 1930.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


rpHE New Library Catalogue for 1930 is
now ready, and will be forwarded with
full terms and particulars, post free, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
h dfgfd
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON !
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16vv Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
vow Muscular Movement System of Writing, "■
advertised in the Sydney Bueletin.
My Name . ■
My Address
S.B. 814 ...
(LYSAGHT
o
3
R
AUSTRALIA
DON’T Increase our Overseas Debt!
Buy Australian-made goods. Create employ-
ment. Build up a prosperous contented, big
population. Cut down imports. By using
Lysaght’s Galvanized Iron you get the world’s
best, and every penny of the cost remains in
Australia.
LYSAGHT’S
Galvanized Iron
OLBROOKS
o
THE DINNER
Host Holbrook Says:
“ My Worcester-
shire Sauce is mat-
ured like an old
wine. It has a
piquancy that age
alone can impart.
Just a few drops
with the Soup, Fish,
or Meat. Ah ! the
finishing touch to a
good dinner.”
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
g
fS f HAIR.
°> * EED
here's
■uAuj -
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
tfrcUlvn!* CMEXICAN)
UkUtud Stcuun,
TUP fIDFV'*
♦removes the grey'
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBDRY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
/ unobtainable locally, posted
irect (4/6), 6d. being postage.
"A QOOD EXCITING YARN.”
“THE VANISHING HORSEMEN”
An Australian romance by A. E. Yarra-
Melbourne “Herald” says: “Full of incident from
first to last. . . .quite the equal of any cowboy doings
in the wild and woolly west of American fame.
At all booksellers. Price 6/-
NOW READY, AT ALL BOOKSELLERS,
THE ABORIGINAL WORDBOOK,
By JUSTINE KENYON
(With a Foreword by A. S. Kenyon).
The most authentic collection of aboriginal words
and their meanings ever published. This compila-
tion has meant many years of research, and the
author is an authority on the subject. With this
book to guide them, no one need be afraid of adopt-
ing a ludicrous or even obscene name for the home.
Price, 2/-, Neatly Boxed. (Postage, 2d.)
All Australians should read and enjoy a laugh
with
THE MAGICIANS,
A Clever Political Satire by Henry Chisholm.
This brilliantly written and caustic criticism of
present-day political iniquities provides considerable
amusement.
Price, fid. (Postage, ld.>
The Lothian Publishing Co. Pty., Ltd.,
497 Collins Street, Melbourne.
50
Subjects Weekly.
ALSO COLORED PICTURES
WORTH FRAMING.
0N au e at ‘‘The Australasian”
NEWSAGENTS The Paper all Australians appreci-
EACH WEEK, ate, and their friends overseas, too!
SEAL OF GUARANTEE
ON NECK OF EVERY BOTTII
ETAT MEANS
"STATE vu
OWNED BY THE
STATE OF FRANCE
m
lo
£L&.
do,
W
& n -■
DOTTLE DfcCUARANTEtB
PURE DV THE (FRENCH
fdg
The .Guarantee of the
French Government,
both as to the authen-
ticity and the punty of
Vichy Etat Waters,is
of great importance to
the Medical profession
and to consumers,
CELESTINS is TNI
NAME or THE SPRINC
BEAR THIS
IN MIND
"15he fallowing statement deft*! contradiction t
Many Mineral Waters nay be offered to you,
but, when you are recommended to take or when
you ask for VICHY WATER, what you mean
to have and what you should get (whether you
know it or not) is
CELESTINS
VICHY WATER
the only French Mineral Water owned by the
French Republic and bottled under its super-
vision.
Invaluable to prevent and cure gout, rheumai-
ifrn, unc gravel and all liver £tid kidney
complaints,
Stocked by all leading hotels, clubs restaurants,
chemists and stores throughout the vorld
Insist on CELESTINS VICHY WATER
Examine the facsimile opposite and refuse substitutes.
Sole Agents for Australia: MAURICE PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney, N S.W.
STATE
STRIBUTORS
VICTORIA:
Messrs. Curcier Adet & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., 119 William St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. A. E. and F. Tolley, Ltd.,
82 Waymouth Street, Adelaide-
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. J. M. Seward and Co.,
Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Lts.,
Wharf Street, Brisbane.
The Red Page
Our Laureate
If Australia possessed a Laureateship, to
whom would it be handed?
Surveying the histbry of poetic develop-
ment in this country, one is forced to the
disappointing conclusion that we have pro-
duced no great poetry or great poets, and
that our intellectual life in this respect is
peculiarly barren. This, no doubt, is merely
another 'statemeht of a widely-recognised
truism, and our only pertinent inquiry at
the present time is, what does.the future
hold for Australian poetry?
It will perhaps be agreed that no living
poet in this country is worthy of recognition
as a national poet. And, looking into our
yesterdays, it is not easy to find one to
whom this honor could have' been granted
during his life. Even more certain it is that
no great figure emerges from the past to
give us inspiration and a standard, and to
point glowingly down the road to further
creativeness.
The real significance of Australian poetry
lies in the future. It is an obvious state-
ment which is not so obvious on analysis,
for the significance of England’s poetry
lies in the past. Gordon and Kendall were
echoes of English poets. Paterson was a
happy jingler. Dorothea Mackellar rhymed
prettily about obvious things, and her lady-
contemporaries did the same in a« more or
less similar way. Henry Lawson had the
soul and vision of a poet, but none of the
magnificent, sureness and capacity for ex-
pression which turns sentimentalisms into
poetry. Leon Gellert gave early promise
and faded away. C. J. Dennis could never
rise above the “Sentimental Bloke.” Hugh
McCrae ended where he began, with dex-
terous little splashes which meant not so
very much.
It is possible to give the names of many
more who have dabbled in rhymes and gone
no further, but it is a depressing business
and not of much value. Lawson was our
most significant poet, but reflection on the
life of Lawson brings a profound regret
that a man who wrote so much could not
write something which must live. No doubt
some of his stuff will live, at least until
our great poet is born; but there is none of
it which contains by virtue of the genius in
it an instruction to posterity that it cannot
be allowed to die.
The great, value of Lawson and those
others is this: they have told our future
poets what they must not write. At peril
of his soul, the genius of To-morrow must
strictly refrain from mentioning (a) floods,
(b) bush-fires, (c) dying sundowners, (d)
gallant and self-sacrificing out-back women,
(e) droughts, (f) deserts, (g) mortality
through thirst, (h) sheep, (i) wandering
shearers, (j) brumbies, among many other
topics. There is no depreciation of one’s
country implied in this. But the songs of
these things have already been sung, and
their sagas written. Henry Lawson told us ad-
equately of most of them, for their hard, clear
outlines and crude, primitive emotionalisms
placed no immense strain upon his pen. But
these “elementals” play no outstanding part
in the poetic life of a nation. The physical
facts of life we all accept, and while it is
not difficult to idealise them, it is a shallow
and unconvincing idealism unsuited to the
grander uses of poetry. None of the immor-
tal gems of poetry springs from them. To
be great, in the world, poetry must sing to
the world, and in singing of the things men-
tioned above the poet is not singing even
to a quarter of the people of this country.
The great poet of To-morrow will forget
his sunburnt country and the everlasting
stars, Jtnd he will know about droughts
only by reading the newspapers. But, he
will peer into the rich immensity of life
itself, and here find a message not only for
Australia but for all those whose experiences
on the great wide roadway are similar to
ours. Shakspeare, traditionally and rightly
England’s greatest poet, referred only
rarely to England itself; but he did create
tapestries which reflected the deepest
abysses in the souls of all men. That is
why England’s greatest poet is also one of
Germany’s greatest poets. When one speaks
of French poetry, one instinctively thinks
of Francois Villon. And what was Villon
singing?—“Where Are the Girls of Yester-
year?” In so doing, he sang not only to
France but to all men of all races. Yet
Shakspeare is just as peculiarly and essen-
tially English as Villon is of France, and
of France only.
That is the work our unknown poet has
to perform. In the meantime we may
award the Laureateship to that spirituality
which makes us all poets of sorts, and which
some day will bring us our noblest singer.
Warren Denning.
The Southwell Papers
It is to be regretted that no latter-day
N.S.W. Government has thought it worth
while to continue the good work begun
by one of a generation ago in the publica-
tion of “The Historical Records of New
South Wales,” and carried on by its suc-
cessors through the seven or eight volumes
that brought the story up to the beginnings
of Macquarie’s reign. The big books were
admirably edited by G. B. Barton, Alex-
ander Britton and F. M. Bladen, and con-
tain a vast amount of matter unearthed
in England from the Public Record Office,
the Privy Council Office, the Home Office,
the Colonial Office, the War Office, the
Admiralty, the India Office, Somerset
House and the British Museum by James
Bonwick, as well as from official and private
Australian sources.
“The Historical Records of Australia,” i
ably edited by Dr. Frederick Watson, do
not nearly cover the ground of these earlier
volumes, since they are* concerned only with
the Governors’ Dispatches, and though im-
mensely valuable to the student of Aus-
tralian history they really present only
the official point of view', which was neces-
sarily often biased and one-sided. The
great value of the N.S.W. Records is that
they contain samples of contemporary
history from widely different, sources, thus
allowing the student to make his own elec-
tion in truth or fiction. For instance, in
Vol. 11, which covers the period 1793-95,
during the Lieutenant-Governorships of
Major Grose and Lieut.-Col. Paterson, we
have, besides official documents, the Mac-
arthur Papers, the King Papers, the South-
w’ell Papers, the story of the Scotch
Martyrs, many papers from the British
Museum, and a variety of matter ranging
from the letters of convicts, private soldiers
and seamen, to communications, anonymous
and otherwise, to the English press of the
day. 1
The Macarthur and Southwell Papers are
excellent examples of the sort of thing that
“The Historical Records of Australia” miss.
They have been published in a volume of
their own, under the title of “The Mac-
arthurs of Camden,” but Dan Southwell’s
letters home have so far appeared in print
only in “The Historical Records of
N.5.W.,” which are now not very easily
procurable outside public libraries.
Daniel Southwell was a fine type of the
junior naval officer of a great fighting and
navigating era, and his literary remains are
invaluable, documents of the earliest days
of Australian settlement. They consist of
a journal which chronicles the voyage out,
continued to May 24,, 1789, and of letters
to his mother, Mrs. Jane Southwell, and his
uncle, Rev. Weeden Butler, of Chelsea.
Southwell is accurate and impartial, and
never tedious, and all his writing gives the
impression of a fine, manly fellow w’ho was
a good seaman and a good man. It is
difficult to make a selection for purposes
.of quotation, but almost anywhere will do.
Here is his account to his uncle of a
disaster caused by a whale in Port Jack-
son, whilst he was stationed at South Head
in the winter of 1789. Ferguson, a mid-
shipman, and a marine named Bates
part of the crew of the signal-station, had
set out from Watson’s Bay for Sydney Cove
in a small boat with two marines who had
been fishing at that end of the harbor
throughout the night.
It was Friday, the 23rd [July], when, having
breakfasted here, these two got into a little flat
bottom’d boat originally calculated for shuting in
shoal water (call’d by us a Jurat) They had not
got above one 3d of the way, being a short mile
below P’t Bradley, and nearly in the mid-streme,
when a great whale app’d (for the first time since
we have been here) in the harbour, spouting and
dashing about in their usual manner. This monstrous
creature, either thro’ being mischievous or playful,
no sooner espied the boat than he pursued and
never left her till he had overturn’d and sent her
to the bottom. For more than ten minutes were
these unfortunes a prey to inexpressible anguish
and horror. At first, in rising, he half fill’d the b’,
and with their hands against the whale did they
bear the boat off. In vain they thro’ out their
hats, the bags for our provis’s, and the fish they
had ’ caught, in hopes to satisfy him or turn his
attention. He seem'd bent on their distruotion, ano
with one sudden and tremendous gamboll consigned
three of their number to their hapless fate and an
endless eternity. Neither of those I've ment’d by
name cou’d swim ; the survivor’s comrade cou'd, even
the best, but thro’ being heavily clad went down,
after having sev’ral times complain’d of his inability
to hold up, the other affect’y encour'ing him, but
in vain; they were friends, and greatly attach’d
One gain’d the rocks a small dist. below Rose Bay,
with much diffi’y, and returning to the Look-out
related this afflicting circumstance.
In the earlier part of his journal, and in
the letters, Southw’ell cannot say too much
in praise of Captain Phillip, from whom
he had received many kindnesses; he pays
the fullest tribute to those qualities of
greatness which the Governor undoubtedly
possessed. But later on he conceived him-
self slighted, or injured in some way, by
the head of the little State. Reading
between the likes,- it is easy to see that he
was intensely bored by his monotonous
duties at South Head, and had become
somewhat peevish and discontented. Phil-
lip, too, in the extraordihary harassments
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—aIways at Anthony Horderns’
A Merry, Merry Christmas!
it will be if you buy the kiddies some of these low-priced toys.
The fact that the kiddies have a *‘right royal” time at Christmas means the
bigger folk will, too and there is no surer way of bringing joy to the kiddies
than giving them good, strong toys—toys that will last for years. Here are
some practical examples for both boys and girls of all ages. All are strongly
made and moderately priced. Delivery is free City and Suburbs only. If
unable to call, you may order by mail with every confidence.
Prams from . 10/6
Dolls Cane and Seagrass Prams,
with moveable hood, iron wheels,
10/6, 14/6. Rubber-tyred wheels,
17/6, 21/-, 2S/9. Without hood—
iron wheels 12/6, 14/6
Tricycles from .... 25
Cyclops Tricycle— very strong-
rubber-tyred. No. 1 2 3
Height, inches 16 20 22
Prices 25/- 28/6 32/6
Cars from . 27/6
These have crank drive, rubber-
tyred wheels, headlights,, etc. 30in.
long, 19in. high. Prices, 27/6,
33/6. 37in. long, 24in. high.
Price 56/6
i£
“Bushie” Tent .. 10/6
This useful little Tent is 4ft. x sft.,
with colored designs on each side of
roof. Without poles. Price .. 10/6
Complete with poles. Price . . 12/6
Scooters from
8/9
Every boy longs for a good Scooter.
These have iron frame, disc wheels
and rubber tyres. They are great
value at the following low prices,
8/9, 10/-, 12/-, 14/3
Aeroplane Car ... 58/6
This is 51 in. long, 22in. high.
Width across wing, 2 I in. 9in. bal-
loon disc wheels, rubber-tyred.
Unusually strong. Price .... 58/6
Rockaways from .. .7/6
Plain varnished. Prices, 7/6, 10/6
Padded; varnished, 10/6, 12/-, 14/6
Painted and padded. Price . . 17/6
Rooster Rockaways,
10/6, 15/- 15/9
Teddy Bears from 2/6
This ever-popular favorite, with
squeakers. Prices, 2/6, 3/9, 5/6
With growlers. Prices, 6/9, 7/9,
8/9, 10/9, 12/6, 13/6, 15/6, 18/6,
21/-, 23/6
“Dinkie” only
This is a popular toy for the smaller
children, age 2 to 5 years. Strongly
made and brightly painted, it is ex-
cellent value at, price 10/9
Flivvers for . 21/-
Ever-popular Flivver, with steel
frame, and easy-running rubber-
tyred disc wheels. Price .... 21/•
Larger size, for boys 8 to 10.
Price 25/-
How Our “D.P.S.” Can Help You
Xmas would not be Xmas for the kiddies without toys —
yet with all the expenses coincident with the festive season
it is not always convenient to give them just what they have
set their hearts on. Why not use our Deposit-Purchase
System? Pay a deposit on the toys you require—the balance
in instalments to suit yourself f and by Xmas they are paid
for, without any undue inconvenience. This service costs
no extra. You pay the cash price only.
Rocking Horses .. 46/9
Of good strong design 6 sizes.
Height 2ft. 6in. 2ft. 9in. 3ft. 2in.
Prices 46/9 56/9 68/6
Height 3ft. 6in. 3ft. 9in. 4ft. 4in.
Prices 92/6 £7/3/6 £B/7/6
Strong Motor-car 35/6
This is fitted with patent balloon disc,
wheels, crank drive, finished red or
blue. Length 30in., height 19in.
Price 35/6
Motor Truck .. . . 73/6
International Motor Truck, all steel
chassis. Cycle chain drive. Finished
in red-and-black lacquer. With
lamps, horn, etc., 50in. long.
MECCA
rX
r-.ir-,
00©@ 0 oO®@
iiS«
Meccano from '4/“
This fascinating and instructive
hobby is sold in outfits at 4/-, 6/-,
8/6, 18/-, 29/-, 48/-, 87/6, 125/-
and 220/-. Accessory sets from 2/6
fdg
’Phone: M24QI
Day and Night.
(The Senior Sftore)
-n.'kv, A
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS. LIMITED. SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 271 C, G.P.O.


: ' : ~|. 4 #i ■ , ! y,11, # ,
- *,
#
m
to
I'! I '.' 1
J*
.-f .
*
Of
f
i
i*
i ill K'4‘
a f
mHR
&
. ■ ; i 11 yr-'-
’ ■’ . ' ' ' __ , u clu iii , ii in . t " Jjj l|
rfeif rr/k w jr
GOOD LOOKS - FINE QUALITY
THRILLING PERFORMANCE
It is easy to see why the De
Soto Six and the De Soto
Straight Eight are so univer-
sally and increasingly popular.
Both of these splendid cars
definitely, and by a wide
margin, excel in the four things
most sought for in motoring-
smart design, fine quality, out-
standing performance and low
price. The power range of
Doth cars is extraordinary-
great power -coupled with
flashing speed and serene
smoothness —a Six and an
Eight both distinguished for
amazing ability on the road.
Make a close study of De
Soto beauty. Look at De
Soto luxury. Step inside
either the Six or the Eight
and sense its roomy, restful
comfort. Drive one and see
how easily it handles. A few
minutes at the wheel of a De
Soto and the truth will be
impressed on you that De
Soto is to-day’s great value-
giver in both the six-clyinder
and eight-cylinder fields.
E
CHRYSLER MOTORS PRODUCT
OTO
SIXES AND
EIGHTS / /
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales Grenville Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Automobiles Proprietary, Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Stradbroke Motors, Ltd., Brisbane
South Australia . .
Western Australia
New Zealand ...
.... Dominion Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Wentworth Motors, Ltd., Perth
New Zealand Motors, Ltd., Wellington
Metro Motors PtyLtd., Hobart.
Tasmania


Sydney Church of England
Grammar School
NORTH SYDNEY
'!<■ *
i
-■-* ■■
V.
The
Chapel
School House.
The School, Chapel, and Boarding Houses are situated on
the heights of North Sydney.
A new Dining Hall, capable of seating 300, with kitchens
completely equipped with modern electrical cooking
apparatus, has been added this year.
At Northbridge there are 22 acres of Playing Fields,
while there are two Boatsheds—one in Berry’s Bay and
the other at Gladesville.
Boys are received in Junior School from 8 years of age;
at 13 years (approx.) they enter the main school.
Boarders are accommodated in five houses, of which one,
Purves House, is practically reserved for boys in Junior
School.
The Headmaster resides in School House, while each of
the others is in the charge of a Senior Master.
During 1930 the numbers in the whole school reached
680 (200 boarders and 480 day boys).
Master of Junior House and Preparatory School:
R. G. H. Walmsley, B.A.
Headmaster: L. C. Robson, M.A., B.Sc..
Further particulars may be obtained from the Headmaster.
of his position—with dangers and difficulties
which he had to face alone owing to the
disaffection of Major Ross and the marine
officers, and other worries not easily to be
appreciated by a junior naval officer—may
have seemed to have changed in his atti-
tude to his subordinate though he had not.
Rev. Butler, writing to Southwell at the be-
ginning of 1791, quotes Captain John Faith-
ful Fortescue, R.N., as having remarked to
him concerning the Governor: “Upon my
soul, Butler,” said he, “I do think God
Almighty made Phillip on purpose for the
place, for never did man better know what
to do, or with more determination to see
it done; and yet, if they’ll let him, he will
make them all very happy.” We know
now that no truer estimate of this great
man could have been formed, and it is
pleasant in the end to find Southwell, pos-
sibly a little reluctantly, - admitting to his
mother that he may have been wrong.
However [he writes to her in August, 1790], a
more agreeable turn has taken place lately in affairs,
and his disagreeable restrictions are taken off. He
treats us with more affability, and is all at once
so polite as to beg of my only companion, Mr.
Harris, and self, whenever we come to camp, to let
him have our co., and I am to-morrow (having been
long a stranger) to wait upon him by particular
invitation, sev’ral times repeated and hitherto declined
upon account of a cold, and being perhaps a little
sulky or so.
But it is advisable not to kick, and I' speake it
much for your satisfaction that I shall neglect no
proper methods of courting his good graces. Nor
do I mean to investigate how far this sudden change
may be the effect of reflection, caprice on his part,
or amendment on ours. If the latter, I must own’
he is very good to perceive a thing so much in my
favor that I remain insensible of. But if I go on
at this rate, you will think I am either saucy or
uncharitable, so 1 will leave you to judge of the
true causes from the deal that I have said in my
other letters upon this head, and if you there see
anything concerning after-claps, &c., and it' sho’d
lead you to honor my great penetration, why thank ye.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
Why Australians Leave Home
This theme, thrashed out with some
thoroughness on the Red Page a few years
ago, was tackled recently by Jack Lindsay
in London ‘‘Everyman.” His statement
amounted to washing Australia’s dirty linen
in public, but would have been acceptable
enough, and indeed salutary, if published
here. England does not need to be told
that Australia is a desert varied by snakes
and prickly-pear—which was what Lindsay’s
summary declared. A mental desert infested
with censors and Philistines: a desert that
was only good to leave. Outlining the
literary careers of significant writers like
Hugh McCrae, Chris Brennan and Louis
Stone, Lindsay showed how they had been
hampered, checked, all but annihilated. The
way out, he declared, was to leave home: a
step that many an Australian had taken,
with financial and sometimes with artistic
success.
That is certainly a way out, a sort of
national artistic and literary suicide. Jack
Lindsay does not so much recommend it
as find it inevitable so far. It will be
a long story, but in the end nothing sig-
nificant can be done for us except by those
who remember that their roots are here.
Look at the history of American letters:
how its expatriate Henry James suffered
from being in a sort of limbo, neither
European nor American, and how its real
growth comes from those who work like
Willa Cather. Consider Ireland, with Yeats
luring Synge home from Paris so that he
drew on the sources of Western Ireland:
Yeats again adjuring certain of our own
writers to “Keep within your borders.”
Meanwhile it is worth noting that such
an article as that of Lindsay’s would not
have been published in any English maga-
zine a few years ago. Australia, in all its
horrors and negations, is now definitely
on the map. Chesterton remarked of Cob-
bett that it was customary in recent times
to refer to him as a neglected writer, which
proved he was no longer neglected. People
in England are at least beginning to wonder
from what kind of dread cavern such artists
as Low, Henry Handel Richardson, Will
Dyson, Katharine Prichard and Percy
Grainger have sometimes made their
escape.
NETTIE PALMER.
A New Marco Polo
Nous, an Antidote for Business Inertia,
by Richard M. Hope (Angus and Robert-
son), is most amusing reading. Mr. Hope
is an advertising specialist. Marco Polo
would have hailed him as a brother. Marco
had to plunge into the blackness of Tartary
in order to encounter his remarkable adven-
tures. Mr. Hope merely has to put on his
hat and plunge into George-street. Marco
was a romantic, and so is Mr. Hope. He
can find romance in the marketing of a fly-
exterminator.
„ jP ie Piece de resistance was nothing less than a
Chamber of Death.” A real selling idea. If ever
there was such a thing here it was. While all other
ny exterminators were being advertised in the usual
style, depicting fumes and dead flies, this campaign
featured potency in a very dramatic way. The story
was told m the advertising that in the organisation
of this product was a real Chamber of Death. This
was a lethal chamber built expressly for the pur-
pose of testing every new batch of the fly extermina-
tor for 100 per cent, efficiency. Each time a new
batch was tested, the story explains, 100 flies,
nw?h m i incul) ators, are placed in the
ambei of Death. At the end of five minutes every
Hy m the chamber should be, not only down on
its back, but dead. To prove that the flies are
then P u t back m the incubators for 24 hours. If
any of the flies shows signs of life, the batch of
unti) X itThe 3 l tol l no held back for further correction
until it checks 100 per cent, efficient.
Needless to say, the campaign was a
triumphant success, and was “only another
illustration of the importance of applying
a little nous 1 to correcting a sales decline
winch may happen as a result of general
depression, market saturation or other
reasons. ’
Another romantic adventure of Mr.
Slopes was connected with sewing machines.
Mr Hope was employed by a sewing-
machine firm. All sewing machines were
en designed on the one pattern—iron legs,
bales were- declining, and somebody had
an idea. Instead of the ugly, old-fashioned
non legs lie suggested a handsome cabinet
made oi fine furniture-wood and fitted out
as a combination sewing machine and writ-
ing esk. The advertising appeal slammed
lome the fact that here was the sewing
machine women had been waiting for; the
industry woke with a jolt, competitors
1 f C e but they were too
•A M i'-. H °P e is modest about his part
m the affair. “A job well done is its own
reward, he says, voicing the creed of all
true artists.
Then there is the instance of how a
nation of teadrinkers was induced to start
drinking a sufficient amount of coffee—or,
rather, coffee substitute—to justify a foreign
firm in opening an establishment. Mr. Hope
as a psychologist:—
f rea t majority of people do not so much see
pictures as read them. In their appreciation and
simDifand'Hn - o V text mattev the y have the same
simple and primitive sense.
Mr. Hope does not worry about the
higher economics. He accepts the competi-
system as he finds it. It is his job
to help one _ competitor to oust, another.
f tar y is the great consuming public.
1 heir boundaries are unknown and continu-
aly shifting. The bones of business firms
are littered along the route fresh business
films are treading. But the exploration still
goes on. All intending Marco Polos are
advised to read Mr. Hope’s guidebook.
A Satchel of Books
When first encountered, Bert Gibbons, of
Ernest Elmores This Siren Song (Collins),
is a 50-year-old chemist’s assistant in a
clran part of London. He invents a new
source or motive power, becomes rich, buys
lines, near Farnham, gives his vulgar
vote all the money she wants for her social
schemes, and sends his son to a fashionable
school, Ihe boy hates the school; Fan, a
daughter, leaves her husband for another
man and his wife dies; his life ends in
loneliness and futility. But it is unfair of
, M Ut i or , to blame ambition, “this siren
song ; Bert s life would have been spoiled
by others whether he had been rich or poor.
Ihe descriptions of middle-class life in Eng-
land are well done, but it is Bert Gibbons
that makes the book worth while. Wells
would have no reason to be ashamed of hav-
ing created him.
t T he CpuMron Bubbles, by N. A. Temple-
LlJis (Methuen), is one of those involved
horror yarns which need a double-page map
to giim readers their bearings. The scene
is laid in Sussex, a county that has dripped
gore since the vogue in mystery novels began.
Soon after George Forester takes rooms in
Roype near the Farm of the Twisted Satyr,
visits the Inn of the Rebels, and becomes
friendly with the inmates of the Square
House, deeds, of violence begin, and the atmo-
sphere of criminal lunacy which permeates
the countryside steadily thickens. The origin
of the whole frightful business is an early
indiscretion of the aged Lady Charlotte, and
all that happens is perfectly feasible assum-
ing, as one must in stories of this kind, that
the local police didn’t get wind of anything
irregular. The characters have a hectic kind
of vitality—particularly Forester, ex-school-
master, ex-officer, who tells the story.
.The title-page of Curong, by Neil Hunt
/William Brookes, Sydney), discloses that
///js written specially for the films.” This
200,000-word book is about base Sydney men
who try to buy waitresses as “brief wives”
(“Look, girl! lam going to have you ! Get
that? There is no use in resisting me. I
always get what I want. In the first place
L™ ered f2OO for you - Now 1 make it
±soo—not that I particularly want you, but
I want m y own way”), and about waitresses
who nee into the unknown instead of hilar-
iously slapping their comic persecutors with
dishcloths. Betty Jasper is driven by the
attentions of a person with the astonishing
name of Boogon to settle down with a
squatter. She has a large family by him
before he consents grudgingly to marry her.
boon afterwards a motion-picture representa-
tive arrives by aeroplane to offer her a
Hollywood star’s contract:—
For reply she handed him a copy of one of the
city’s leading dailies. On the Society page was a
picture of the Belah homestead, and inset was
her photograph. The item was headed “Society
Wedding-Miss Betty Jasper to Wed Grazier. Belah’s
lovely station home to have a lovely young mistress.”
The book is worth the money for its uncon-
scious humor.
Boys’ and, Girls’ Books. The mail has
brought nothing brighter to date in the way of
Christmas offerings for the young ’un s than
the Llackie lot—so good in specialised appeal'
that Australian writers and publishers of
youngsters’ reading might learn something
from them. The firm has made a careful
study of the small fry, has decided that he
and she is a universal person, and issues
reading entertainment accordingly. The list
includes “Blackie’s Girls’ Annual”; “The
Hawthorn Patrol” (girls) ; “In Pirate
Waters,” by George Garner ; “Leslie Dexter,
Cadet,” by P. F. Westerman ; “The Mastery
of the Sea,” by Cyril Field; “The Mastery of
the Air,” by W. J. Claxton; “The Mystery
of the Broads,” by Percy F. Westerman ; “A
Book of Scout Stories” (boys) ; “Little
Children of the Great Round World” “The
Apple-tree Story Book”; My Own Poetry
Book”; “How Photography Came About”;
“Blackie’s Children’s Annual” (from nought
up to ten or so) ; “Blackie’s Little One’s
Annual”; “Roland and Maybird”; “The
Jing-a-Ring Book”; “On the Railway Line”;
“My. Alphabet Book”; “Jack and .Till” and
“Round the Mulberry Bush” (wee folk). The
books are full of charming illustrations.
Answers to Correspondents.
Ao notice ( except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped . Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless siamps ac company.
D.F.: Yes, it is quite possible that if
we lower our costs our competitors may do the same,
u we ye got to beat our competitors or go broke,
and that s all there is about it F.H.Q.: Poorly put.
• -C.T.: Sorry, but. personal replies are not phy-
sically possible just now P. 0.0.: Waste of time
w a m What 3ny paper wants - Read the Paper....
11. A : There’s a weak link in the middle, and most
T/tro lest are rusty J - D - : Gets nowhere....
l .H.b.: Superficial... .R.M.H.: An idea, but that’s
all G.T.: Ten times too long 8.R.: Weighed
in short in plot, dialogue and style A.L.T.: Read
penny dreadfuls if you must, but don’t try to write
them P.G.: You made it too obvious that the
parson would get the job L.L.S.: Mournful
IMY.: Bill’s birthday party was a frost.. . .D.M.P.:
1 ooily constructed... .C.L.: Boundary-rider’s yarn is
merely a harangue, and old at that P.P. : A
nebulous effort ...E.J.H.: Market already glutted
with that stuff... .G.J.M.: Well, it was a genteel
little outburst... .H.A.F.: Overloaded with gory
adjectives and unsavory characters S.S.H.: One-
way out of the dilemma would be to tear it up....
A.J.: No need for all that burbling after the lady
returned. .. .X.R.N.: Give up the game... .0.W.: Too
much about the sun setting; too little about those
who saw it set C.F.T.: Between 14,000 and
18,000 words. Get copies of plays by Galsworthy,
Pinero or Maugham... .M.S.: You break nearly
all the rules in a form in which rules are particu-
larly important A.N.G.: Good deal in “The
Recipe,” but the finished cake isn’t enticing...,
d. 8.: Plunged headlong into “The Shady Pool” and
found it shallow.... Skiting: Yes, a terrible rhyme,
and the thing generally isn’t up Koala: Would have
been better if it had been less like Moore and with
more of Moore’s rhyme Wyn C.: “Six Hundred Miles
Through the Redwood Highway of California, an
Interlude of Big Trees,” has not been accepted
J'.S.S.: Prefer the contents to be in the lines rather
than between them, even in verse S.C.: A thought,
but it does not get through the fog of words....
Aurora: Harrowed by picture of the man who dis-
covered that the “divinity he fondly adored” “in-
harmoniously loudly snored” A.M.M.: Good in
sentiment, anyway G.G.: Rather pretty, but
forced. .. .5.G.3: “The Silent Toast” would be a
good idea at any banquet M.8.H.: Not without
merit, but rather chaotic Old Bachelor: Liked it
in places. Still, it lost F.J.F.: To win with
that length it would have to be a literary Phar
Lap....Pom: One of these days you’ll do some-
thing Foh : A rusty old idea Bill D.: Not much
in it, but heaps better than the average. .. .1.T.H.:
Your prophecy had come time before it arrived....
F.G.: Pity you used that wordy metre. The stuff in
it is good Hera:—•
There is no more to say,
No more to say.
I am old and tired, and
There is no more to say.
Hera, hera! G.S.C.: Pretty, but says so little.
R.A.L.: Not concentrated enough for this page.
.-..F.A.5.: Close... .Califoserb: Three misses....
F.J.A.: Takes a rare anecdote to stand being
wrapped up in a yard and a half of verse H.A.H.:
Told in half a dozen lines it might sell somewhere.
... .M.C.T.: Quite well done, but far too fragile....
R.M.: Obvious sincerity of such things doesn’t help
them. They are cheerless. .. .Nour: Rocky as the
life of a politician, and as useful A.E.W.: Better
have another look over the market C.T.: Reads
as if you have a solid road in front of you R.H.:
“Poetic Injustice.” Why the first word?
J.P.O’C.: I)o something on your own account....
11.R.5.: Mournful.... Kang: You’ve misread it rather
wildly... .P.L.E.: Glad to hear from you again. Try
another... .T.T.A.: Seems a long way of saying a
cat died....Bellerive: Carry on with the sports:—
PAST CELEBRATES OF THE TURF.
In verse I recall—
For old time sake
Tommy Hales, Harris,
Burn and Carslake.
Corrigan and Batty
Were horsemen sublime,
Successful were Lambert
And Pike in their time.
When great jockeys retire
Or for ever are stilled,
By youthful riders
The -gaps are refilled.
(Next week: “Playmates of the Schoolyard.”)
....Mug P.: Yes, the sporting writer wrote Autumn
Balloon when he meant Balloon King. Still, his pen
didn’t slip when he gave Tregilla for the A.J.C.
Derby, and Cragford for the Metrop., and Vaals for
the Epsom, and Karuma for the Doncaster, and
Piastoon and Gwillian G. for the Sydney Cup, and
Windbag and Statesman for the Melbourne Cup ; or
when he pronounced Phar Lap a great horse on the
strength of one win and a second. So it’s a case
for tempering justice with mercy P.M.: Don’t
care for your sentimental burglar C.R.A.: A tale
of misery miserably told F.Y.: The noes have it.
. ...S.D.: Anaemic lovers swapping hackneyed vows.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.R.: Never met it before and don’t want to meet
it again... .C.C.H.: Barred the chap in the plu«-fours.
. ...8.C.: You just crawl to the starting post.
E.C.: Lessons are needed: plenty of them....
W.G.W.: Too late, and then it was badly done....
C. 8.: Not a trump card... .H.L.: Have ordered a
wreath for the four-leaf-clover picker... .G.H.:
Labor in vain... .R.R.: Smacked the flappers and
sent ’em home F.M.C.: That sozzled railway
traveller ought to take out a life pass. He visits
us so often... .W.M.: Joke so stale that even radio
comedians have no further use for it.... E. Y.: No
niche for it here A.S.D.: To save time, draw’em
small... .L.0.M.: You’ll have to sow better sketches if
you want to reap cheques M.J.S.: Climbing
slowly... .S.T.J.: Your method of -placing shadows
where there’s room is certainly n0ve1.... V.P. :
Cricket umpire looks like a case for the first-aid man.
.. ..H.C.W.: Egg-bespattered politician won’t have
our readers for an audience.. . .U.M.8.: A chestnut.
. ...C.A.V.: Poor stuff.... W.A.W.: It lacks every-
thing needed... .G.H.M.T.: Left the blonde and
brunette to fight it out in the w.p.b R.F.: Gag
has only a local interest... .B.B.: N0....H.R.:
Author of that mother-in-law joke was thrown to the
lions... .S.G.: Not bad if it is a first effort....
F.L.: Only a check for you M.M.P.: Sent us a
sketch five years ago, did you? Appreciate your
abstinence.


9
m
FAMOUS
PORT
< ' /
rani
I mm
_ !
"• -
a
■
■
i
H t
m
w
s
r:
■
■
./■
. - : :
p m
m
■ $ i |
H
,
; i
»gsi
■:
P
r;
Wm
wW
ill
1
■
1111
1
'i
m
ill
i
■ :11
KA
■
I*
P
r:
HP
M
i?#W
m
m
■
■I
■
%HMO
: I
♦«C, r. ■- ' f
flu* • -v


The Bulletin
Vol. 51.—N0. 2647.
November 5, 1930.
THE PRODIGAL’S RELAPSE.
“Though Australia lately seemed to have repented of its over-borrowing, it has been tempted away by Mr. Lang’s promises of further loans and by the lures of inflation.”
DAD: “I wonder how much more the boy must suffer before he will learn?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 2U George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 879 U.
Victoria : W r 2o Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westrai.ia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London :36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.t.
Temple Bar 57 yS.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to ant address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
5 months, Is.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 108.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fifij
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: Sd. Elsewhere: sd.
HIGH WAGES AND LOW COSTS.
The Australian Labor party has under-
taken to keep the country solvent and at
the same time resist cuts in wages and
increases in working hours; and the ques-
tion is whether the thing can be done, and,
if so, how. No plan has been put forward
thus far; nothing that looked even remotely
like a plan was produced during the recent
N. S. Wales election, though the contest
turned on this very question. That a large
section of the party—the typically Aus-
tralian section—would never seriously con-
template repudiation is certain. But it is
equally certain that another large section
regards it as no crime to cheat the capitalist
in the alleged interests of the working man,
whom the capitalist is accused of having
cheated all his days. There is no doubt
whatever that this is their solution of the
problem, though they may not always be
frank about it. If dishonest, these at least
are logical. They only promise what they
think they can perform. The others—the
honest section of the party—proceed with a
policy which they have not the smallest
idea how to carry into effect.
Thus Australia’s citizens may be divided
for the time being into three sections: (1)
those who believe that in order to pay
our debts we must practise hard economy
and reduce our costs of production; (2)
those who are prepared to repudiate our
debts rather than reduce wages or increase
hours; (3) those who want to maintain
wages, etc., and also want to pay our debts,
but have no plans for doing it.
The only debts that are really worry-
ing are those held overseas. Interest, etc.,
on local debts we can pay with paper; the
charges on overseas debts can be paid only
with gold. We have not the gold; there-
fore we must export goods to sell for gold,
and our overseas interest bill calls for about
30 millions of it annually in addition to
what we must pay for our unavoidable
imports. Now those goods must be sold
in the foreign markets in competition with
all other sellers; therefore our price must
be lower than theirs, or at any rate as low.
If they are not as low we obviously cannot
get buyers, and if we cannot get buyers we
cannot pay our debts. The gentlemen who
say, “Very well, then, we will not pay our
debts,” are understandable. The gentlemen
who say that costs must be reduced are
understandable. The third section, standing
between the Devil and the deep sea, want-
ing to do the straight thing yet n<pt know-
ing how to do it without losing their jobs—
these command our sympathy. Can the
thing they want to do be done: can wages
be maintained and debts still be paid? It
is the most important question in Australia
to-day.
The problem is how to keep wages for
labor high in Australia while cheapening the
product of the same labor outside Aus-
tralia. Looking around, we find that the
miracle has been accomplished so far as
sugar is concerned. We wanted to grow
always enough for our own use; and, since
the crop is irregular, it followed that to
grow enough in a poor year we had to
grow much more than enough in a good
year. Then arose the question of the
sale of the surplus in the world’s markets
in competition with the output of cheap
colored-labor countries. What was done, in
effect, was to fix a price for refined sugar
consumed in Australia, making it so high
that, though the export surplus has to be
sold at a very low price, the average for
the whole crop is still high enough to allow
of very good wages being paid in the industry.
At present the fixed wholesale price for
refined sugar in Australia is £37 6s. Bd. per
ton. This allows of a payment of £26 16s.
for raws, this payment being made to a
growers’ and millers’ pool; the balance of
£lO 10s. Bd. goes in refining and distributing
and in rebate to jam and other manufac-
turers. But as the export surplus does not
bring into the pool more than from £9 to
£lO per ton, the average which the pool is
able to pay out to the growers was
reduced to £2O ss. lOd. per ton for the 1929
season.
In this case, therefore, high wages are
paid in the industry, and the export surplus
is sold at a low price; and that is what
Labor aims at. To what extent can the
practice be operated elsewhere? Obviously
the larger the surplus for export the higher
the price must be for local sales in order to
bring out a fair average. One result in the
sugar business has been that there is a
steady effort on the part of the board to
limit the area under cultivation, otherwise
the export surplus would be too great, the
average would be gradually reduced and
high wages would no longer be possible; an-
other result has been the constant disaffection
aroused against the wholesale price, which
is at least £l5 higher than foreign refined
sugar could be landed for. To what extent
the plan could be applied to other export
products depends, then, upon the proportion
of export surplus to home consumption. In
the case of wheat, for example, we can assume
an Australian harvest of 160 million bushels,
from which 12 millions must be deducted
for seed, etc., leaving 148 millions net.
Of that approximately 32 millions will be
used for human consumption in Australia
and 116 millions will be export surplus. Say
the export price is 2s. 6d. per bushel. The
wholesale price in Australia would have to be
raised to 6s. 3d. per bushel on the 32 mil-
lions in order to raise the price on the
entire saleable crop to 3s. 4d. per bushel. If
the price for home consumption was put
up to 10s., it would not give the grower more
than 4s. Id. all round, with the export value
at 2s. 6d. per bushel. The figures applied
to the Australian production of wool and to
most metals are no more promising than
that; in most cases less promising.
Certainly bonuses for export—and that
is what this plan amounts to—need not be
derived from extra charges on home con-
sumption. But if they are not got from
extra prices they must be got from taxes;
and the taxation of industry in order to
maintain high costs looks suicidal. And, of
course, labor would not gain anything from
its high earnings if the cost of goods for
home consumption were pushed up. Four
shillings a bushel for wheat is not at all
excessive; yet the community which was
asked to pay for its bread on the basis of
10s. a bushel for wheat might view the
scheme with great disfavor.
Export pools and bounties and bonuses
have this at least in their favor: within
certain limits they have been tried and
found to answer —as in the case of sugar.
The trouble is that their limits are appa-
rently so narrow. Yet there is no other
plan which looks like having any success
at all in maintaining wages while finding
a market abroad for our products. Eco-
nomy, of course, would help enormously.
Production in Australia is greatly over-
weighted with freight and other distribution
charges. But there is apparently little dis-
position to interfere with this: Mr. Lang
indeed declares that our railways are under-
manned. There is a much livelier disposi-
tion to attack interest and overhead charges;
but, though some relief might be got here,
too, there is no ground for hoping for any-
thing either considerable or quick.
Still, every avenue must be explored. 1 o
avoid a crash we have got to do one of
two things: we must either show h' a 'h°f
that what it aims at is impossible, or find
ways by which the apparently impossible
can be done. If we fail to do one or the
other, nothing is surer than default, to
which one large section looks forward, if not
with glee, certainly with no repugnance.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
A SEARCH FOR AN AUSTRALIAN
LAUREATE, by Warren Denning . . .. 2
THE SOUTHWELL PAPERS—
By J. H. M. Abbott 2
WHY AUSTRALIANS LEAVE HOME—
By Nettie Palmer .. .. .. .. 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. . . 5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY PERCIVAL .. .. 7
EDITORIALS 8 > 9
HIGH WAGES AND LOW COSTS .. ..8
HOW-NIEMEYER HELPED GREECE . . • • 8
WANTED A LAND ARMY 8
THE POLITICAL MRS. GAMPS . . . . 9
FRANK ANSTEY’S PAWNSHOPS .. -.9
FRANCE AND AUSTRALIA 9
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 9
POLITICAL POINTS—
(With cartoonlets by Frith) 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) 11, 12
A CARTOON BY LEASON 13
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 13
BANKS AND CALL MONEY 13
SHOCK-FREEZING OF PERISHABLES . . 13
WHAT CAN THE HOUSEWIFE DO ? . . • . 13
PERSONAL (with caricatures) 44
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. • • 16
OXFORD-STREET VARIETY 7
(With drawings by Frith) .. ..16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 17, 18
SOUTH BRITISH INSURANCE .. -.17
AUSTRALIAN KNITTING MILLS .. -.17
UNITED PROVISIONS
PERMANENT TRUSTEE (SYDNEY) . . • • 17
EQUITABLE LIFE OF AUSTRALASIA .. 17
NORTH BROKEN HILL 18
INVESTMENT QUESTIONS ANSWERED .. 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 20, 21
MAN ON THE LAND 22, 2o
A REMARKABLE S.A. FARM 22
THE BLOWFLY IN N.Q 22
BRIDLE-BREAKERS 22
FARM QUESTIONS ANSWERED .. 2r>
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT 26
SMOKE-011 (with drawings) 28
POVERTY POINT 31
THE PALETTE 31
THE INKY WAY •• 31
SHADOW SHOWS • • 33
SPORTING (illustrated) 35, oj
V.R.C. DERBY 35
ROSEHILL (SECOND DAY) 35
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 39
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE . . . . .. 41
NEW SERIAL —
“Break o’ Day”—
By John Crisp 42, 43, 4o
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 44
SERIAL—“THIRTY PIECES OF SILVER,’’
By Montague Grover .. . • ■ • .. 47
COMPLETE STORY:“RAYMOND TERRACE”—
By J. H. M. Abbott ■ ■ • • 49, 50
VERSE —By R. D. Fitzgerald, Kathleen Dalziel,
E. J. Brady .. 50
HOW NIEMEYER HELPED GREECE.
Mr. Lang, Mr. Anstey and Mr. Beasley—
Mr. Beasley especially—have a poor opinion
of the Bank of England and its Sir Otto
Niemeyer. Not so Henry W. Morgenthau,
the great American who was his country s
ambassador at Constantinople during the
war. As chairman of the Refugee Settle-
ment Commission, a body set up by the
League of Nations to grapple with the task
of repatriating the Greeks chased out ol
Asia Minor by the victorious Turks, Mor-
genthau had to see Montagu Norman and
Mr. Beasley’s aversion about an advance
of a million, “the Bank of England having
in its vaults a deposit of the Greek Govern-
ment amounting to about nine million
dollars.” Mr. Lang scornfully describes the
Bank of England as “only a savings bank,
like the savings banks out here.” Here is
Morgenthau’s account of the institution:
“The very life of the nation throbs inside
its sombre portals. Here is centred the
official direction of the national finances,
managed for the nation’s safety and progress
As the bank is involved in numberless
important transactions all over the world,
the Foreign Office and the Treasury need
to keep in the closest touch with it. .. .
It was significant of the relationship that
exists between the bank and the Govern-
ment that my appointment to mpet the
Governor was at the office of car utto
Niemeyer at the Treasury. There I met
Norman, who personified Hie bank, and
Niemeyer, who, as the Comptroller or
Finance, personified the fiscal authority ot
the Government.”
The American Ambassador adds a study
of the man whom Mr. Beasley despises:
“He had none of Norman’s bubbling
energv, but rather was quiet and unobtrusii e.
He looked more the sedentary thinker, whose
habit of weighing evidence impartially was
reflected in the deliberate manner m whicn
his carefully considered sentences were
spoken. Nevertheless, he soon revealed the
qualities that had given him his important
Government post. He had the facts and
figures of international finance at his
fingers’ ends, and was evidently a master ot
their intricate inter-relations. He had, too,
what so few Americans in government have,
a profound knowledge of other lands. Just
as our bank presidents know the relative
credit standing of all the corporations in
their community, their prospects and their
management, just so did Niemeyer (and
Norman, too, for that matter) know the
resources of every country in Europe, their
products, their commerce and their politi-
cians, with their inter-relations and pros-
pects. It was astonishing to see with what
familiarity these leaders of British finance
spoke of the details of internal politics
in Greece.”
So it is just possible that Niemeyer may
be competent to give sounder advice to this
embarrassed country than Mr. Beasley,
whose only known experience of high
finance was gained when he was selling
electric irons and toasters on the instal-
ment plan for the Sydney City Council.
Incidentally, Morgenthau got his million,
which was supplemented from other sources;
and the work of his Refugee Commission
was a veritable triumph. There were a
million and a half refugees, nearly all im-
poverished and many diseased, and the
country on which they suddenly descended
is far inferior to Victoria in size and re-
sources, while its five million inhabitants
were themselves suffering from all the cala-
mities incident to unsuccessful war. The
tremendous job was lightened to some
extent by the exodus of 400,000 .Turks and
Bulgarians from Macedonia, the departure
of the Turks being provided for in an article
of the peace treaty. By degrees 90,000
families were transferred to this province,
being set to produce tobacco, sultana
raisins, wheat (varieties were introduced
from Australia), fruit and silk; of the rest,
many were drafted into town industries,
such as carpet-making, which was so trans-
formed that after six years there were 5500
looms employing 12,000 workmen, as against
130 looms employing 230 workmen before
the refugees arrived. In four years, 1922-
26, tobacco production leaped from
25,800,000 kilos to 56,500,000 kilos, and,
largely owing to the rise of tobacco fac-
tories, the population of Cavalla has in-
creased from 28,000 to 58,000.
It is a most inspiriting story, and, as
might be expected, not an atom of credit
is due to politicians of the kind that
“settled” our soldiers, and made our rail-
ways insolvent, and tried to show the
nefarious capitalist how to run steamers,
trawlers, mines, canneries, implement fac-
tories and cattle stations—politicians were
warned off. A still more splendid story
could be written in Australia., with its im-
measurably greater possibilities, if the wind-
bags were reduced to impotence for the next
10 years.
WANTED: A LAND ARMY.
The highly trained men of the Defence
Department, instead of being discharged,
ought to be used to organise the unem-
ployed as an agricultural or land army.
Camps could be established in each State
and the men trained under competent in-
structors in the use of agricultural imple-
ments, the military element being used
solely for organisation, rationing and disci-
pline ; the men to be paid on a scale similar
to that which operated in the A.I.F. (ss.
per day and rations), separation'allowances
being made to married men. When trained,
these men would be available to assist in
increasing the area to be sown for next
year’s harvest. The organisation would
come directly under the Ministers for Agri-
culture, whose responsibility it would be to
see that the necessary implements and
plant were provided. Many thousands of
acres which, under prevailing conditions,
will remain untilled, would be placed
under wheat or other crops if trained
workers with the necessary plant and seed
were available.
During the seeding and harvesting sea-
sons sub-camps could be established in the
main centres, from which labor could be
drawn. Under this system the requirements
of the small farmer, needing one or two
extra hands at busy times, and those of the
large landholder, requiring many men to
work under the supervision of their train-
ing officers, could be met.
Satisfactory arrangements would need to
be made for the distribution of money
received for those products for which labor
supplied by the land army was directly re-
sponsible; e.g., if a landowner supplied only
the land and the land army supplied
labor, plant and seed and harvested the
crop, the landowner should receive one-
third, two-thirds going tf> the Government
as a set-off against moneys advanced for
the establishment of the land army, any
surplus to be distributed as a bonus among
the workers. Should a landowner require
only a few men, whose activities he could
supervise himself, and he supplied the land,
seed and plant, he should take two-thirds
and the Government one-third. Or a farmer
might supply the land and seed and require
the land army to supply labor and plant;
it might be found that a distribution of
50-50 would be equitable. However, the
exact proportions would be determined by
the circumstances of each case.
Members of the land army would be free
to apply for their discharge at any time
should they secure permanent employment
outside. Although the land army would
not be formed with the idea of its becom-
ing a permanent unit, it might be found
that, even in more prosperous times, it
w r ould be a good scheme to have such a
clearing depot for the mobilisation and
training of the unemployed.
This idea is not without precedent. In
the latter days of the war, Britain’s food
supply was seriously threatened by the
submarine blockade, and she was faced with
the necessity of providing a far greater pro-
portion of her essential foods than she had
done for practically a century. In normal
times, the wheat crop of Britain is equiva-
lent to approximately 10 weeks’ supply. In
less than two years—from 1916 to 1918—
with the assistance of a land army similar
to that which I have outlined, Britain in-
creased her tillage by 1,950,000 acres, and
that with her most skilled men withdrawn
for active service. During that time the
land army reached a strength of approxi-
mately 121,000 men, many of them inex-
perienced, and included soldiers on fur-
lough, old-age pensioners, ex-metropolitan
policemen, agricultural workers and public
school boys. The women also formed a
division of part-time workers, organised in
shifts. The cultivation division provided
4200 tractors, 66 additional steam tackle
sets, thousands of ploughs, many hundreds
of reapers and binders and threshing-
machines. It operated 10,000 horses and
trained hundreds of ploughmen and tractor
drivers. Although this organisation was
only commenced in the latter part of 1916,
the additional area placed under cultivation
in 1918 added 15,500,000 quarters of corn to
the quantity raised in 1916, and by weight,
including potatoes, the production of essen-
tial foods was increased by 6,250,000 tons.
The home-grown wheat supply in 1918 was
sufficient for 40 weeks, leaving the country
dependent on outside supplies for only 12
weeks, which practically reversed the pre-
vious ratio.
If such a thing was possible in England,
where agriculture was considered decadent,
how much easier should it be for us in Aus-
tralia, where large-scale farming is practised,
to increase very considerably our wheat
harvest by using the labor of approximately
80,000 men at present unemployed! Assum-
ing we did no better than Great Britain,
and taking the figure of 124,000,000 bushels
of wheat at the abnormally low figure of
3s. a bushel, it would mean £18,600,000
to our credit in London—nearly two-thirds
of the amount required to meet our annual
interest debt abroad.
Most of the money which to-day is being
spent on unemployment relief work pro-
duces nothing, and only tends to increase
the burden; moreover, the effect upon the
recipients of such relief is demoralising.
VINSMITH.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Political Mrs. Gamps.
N.S.W. LABOR VOTER (over his shoulder): “Shake it up, Jack, and stop the cow, like yer promised; the pace is gettin’ too flamin’ hot.”
Of medicine there are now about 60
branches, and law study and practice are
becoming more and more compartmented.
Every Agricultural Department has its score
or so of experts and could find work for
twice as many; and there are more varieties
of engineers than McAndrew ever heard of.
More and more the world is disposed to
turn to the specialist—whether it be in the
matter of building a house or selecting a
breed of pigs or having an appendix cut
out or choosing a vocation for the boy.
It wasn’t so yesterday. Was a new visitor
expected? Then Mrs. Gamp would do very
well; for had not Mrs. Gamp had 10 of
her own, and—poor soul!—buried them all?
As for drawing up a deed, the friend of the
family could do it very well; and any 10
passers-by who hung over the fence could
tell you how to doctor your sick horse in
10 different ways—all fatal. To-day the man
who goes to the quack is pitied as a poor
credulous creature who almost deserves to
get into the mess from which only a good
Providence can save him.
And yet there are exceptions. If a man
with an international reputation in medicine,
and specially chosen by Bartholomew’s
Hospital for the job, were sent to Australia
to consider and advise upon an obscure
complaint from which the Governor suf-
fered, and if the eminent gentleman with the
international reputation and the imprimatur
of Barts was supported in his suggested
treatment of the case by the most eminent
practitioners in Australia, even young Mr.
Beasley, Assistant Minister of Nothing in
Particular, might prefer to let them have
their own way. But when it is a matter of
finance and economics, then, in the opinion
of the young Mr. Beasleys of to-day,
there are no experts, and nobody’s opinion
is better than anybody else’s. Of course, it
is only a passing phase. We shall learn to
consult the specialists in these matters just'
as we turn to them when something goes
wrong with the cottage drainage or our own
personal inner workings. Meantime for
our country’s ills we shall for a little while
longer continue to call in the Ansteys and
Beasleys and Theodores—the political Mrs.
have had 10 of their own, and—
poor souls!—have buried them all.
—♦
Mr. Anstey’s Pawnshops.
Frank Anstey, it seems, has been the most
voluble member of the Federal Cabinet on
the economic question which was referred
to the Bank of England for advice. Mr.
Anstey is utterly opposed to economy if it
means less wages: he thinks that our ills
could be cured by doing some conjuring
tricks with credit. What Mr. Anstey thinks
credit is and what it should do he told in
a booklet he. lately reprinted:—
“What is . needed is a reorientation of the
financial system to meet the new conditions.
To-day banking has become a titanic
monopoly. It can give or refuse credit, in-
crease or decrease values, raise or ruin men.
tsuch vital processes, decisive of the progress
of the people and of the safety of the State,
should not be committed to the dividend in-
terests of private corporations. A Common-
wealth-owned banking system, if it is to
function as an instrument of national safety
or progress, must make credit available to
all who have the cover to offer.”
The trouble about nearly all these pro-
fessional politicians is that they will not
use plain words: they know that tremendous
polysyllables are just as potent as they were
in the days of the dear old lady who got
spiritual consolation out of “that blessed
word Mesopotamia.” Cutting out all the
frills, however, what Mr. Anstey declares
is that it is the duty of the Government to
set up a pawnshop at which every citizen
shall have the right to pawn everything he
(or she) has, and that it is the further duty
of the Government never to refuse an ad-
vance so long as a citizen has an article
left to pawn. That is the whole meaning
of Mr. Anstey’s concluding sonorous phrase
—the Government should “make credit
available to all who have the cover to
offer.”
But where did the citizen get the right to
demand that the State shall be prepared to
advance money on everything he has —to
demand that, if he buys a coat to-day, the
Government shall hold itself ready to lend
him money on the garment to-morrow?
There is no such right, and it is a terribly
dangerous thing to attempt to set it up.
Does even Mr. Anstey believe that it would
be a good thing for Fitzroy and Colling-
wood if Commonwealth pawnshops were
made as frequent in those districts as Com-
monwealth post offices are, especially if
their managers were instructed never to
refuse an advance to a citizen who had left
an article unpawned? ,
Pawnshops are quite useful institutions;
but to put it forward that in the multitude
of them there is prosperity is merely silly.
And to put it forward that, because such
institutions—pawnshops or banks: call
them what you like—sometimes refuse
advances, therefore they should no longer
be in private hands, but should be handed
over to the politicians is not only silly, but
full of deadly peril. The politician has
bought votes by littering this country with
railways which have to be maintained out
of taxation; he has loaded this country with
a public service whose votes he bids for at
every election; for the sake of votes he has
inflicted upon the country a basic-wage
system which defies every economic law and
will probably bankrupt the State. And
now some of these impudent adventurers are
seeking to get control of the entire banking
system of the country!
♦
France and Australia.
: France is strangely popular in
Australian Labor circles just now. N.S.W.
Premier Lang said over and over again
during the recent campaign:—
“We must shorten the working week as
science advances. This is. recognised by all
the enlightened peoples, of the world, such as
France.”
His press mouthpiece, the “Labor Daily,”
argued on Thursday that Australia was suf-
fering because “overseas financiers had
forced down the prices of wool, wheat and
metals,” and went on:—
, (T „
If Mr. Theodore were as well informed as
his champions assume him to be, he would
know that France dealt with the same sort
of conspiracy against French exports by
raising the rate of the exchange.”
.
And the witless Jock Garden, after claim-
ing at Homebush that the financial policy
of Clemenceau (meaning Poincare) had
saved France in 1926, pointed out that all
would he well here If we imitated it
would be well here if we imitated it.
I was, in Fiance in 1926, and also after
Poincare had saved the situation, and I was
repeatedly struck, not only by the Musso-
lini-like powers which he employed with
agitators like Garden (he had five Com-
munist Deputies in gaol at the one time in
1927), but also by the difference between
social and economic conditions in France
and in the Commonwealth, By 1926, more-
over, the French had come to understand
that, if the national budget wasn’t balanced,
millions of workers would be ruined.
What was wrong? The French had done
the very thing our Left Wing Laborites
want Robert Gibson, of the Commonwealth
Bank, sacked for refusing to do: they had
inflated the currency. Poincare’s problems
were to (1) balance the budget and (2) 'Settle
up with the nation’s internal and external
creditors. The only way to balance a budget
which is, as Sir Otto Niemeyer would say,
“off equilibrium” is to diminish expenditure
and increase revenue. Poincare sacked civil
servants in droves, cut to the bone the
miserable screws of those who remained,
economised on all public services and im-
posed taxation up to nearly 40 per cent.
of the national income. He silenced objec-
tors by a “save-the-franc” campaign which
made the endurance of super-taxation, long
hours of work and low wages acts of patriot-
ism like fighting in a war.
-r, , . , , . ,
France made a miraculously quick re-
covery chiefly because it is so unlike Aus-
tralia in all respects. Half the population
works on the land, or in towns of less than
5000 inhabitants. According to the 1921
census, 46 per cent, of the inhabitants of
Australia live in six capital cities, and only
25.8 work on the land. France has a foreign
tourist trade worth £100,000,000 p.a.; Aus-
tralia has virtually none. The rate of in-
crease of the Australian population is
higher than that of any country in the
world except M.L. (during four decades
Australia’s population has increased 141.56
per cent.); the French population is station-
ary. So we have unemployment, and France
hasn’t.
France settled its debts, home and foreign,
by the simple device of paying 4s. in the £.
Thus the £68,000,000 subscribed during the
war on patriotic grounds by British investors
was repudiated to the extent of 80 per cent,
—and French patriots had to swallow the
same pill and look as pleasant as they could,
Judging by their public utterances, some of
our Labor speakers admire this kind of
thing. But, ethics apart, it wouldn’t pay
Australia, which isn’t in a position, like
France, to accumulate gold and laugh at
the world’s indignation. Credit, a reputa-
tion for honesty, is Australia’s life, and it
will be till we become at least as nearly
self-supporting as France is.
Please Tell Us.
: .
Ihe following letter is one of several: —
„ t. , ™. . , ,
. T>ear Bulletin, I his is from a man who
has a job to raise sixpence these days, but
still manages to do it. Generally speaking,
whatever the subject °f the day is, you look
at it from both sides, back and front, then
give us something worth reading about it.
As soon as an election is sighted, you sling
your hat in the air, and away you go with
the mob. Prior to the Federal election you
told us Bruce and Ba ge were about the
two worst i ea ders that could be inflicted on
ug The election came on and you put
haloes on those two and told us we were
lost if they weren’t returned. After the
election you wiped your glasses, adjusted
them, and told us we hadn’t made such a
had hst hy • Yours, P. G.
The Bulletin must have been thinking
along much the same lines, because a week
ago it made a confession that most elections
left it unhappy, since while they were on it
found itself forced into silence about many
things. Between elections The Bulletin
round looking for the truth, exploring
aTI J. well where it may be suspected of
hiding, and honestly prepared to follow the
trail wherever it may lead; preaching the
truth as d se f » and cuffing the ears of
an l° j e + stands ln tle T. ay ‘ rr , • •
And + the ?. c ° mes , an electlon - , T his is a
P omt at which mquiy ceases and a .verdict
13 H ° w do - these or more
P eo Pl e weigh up? Having put them in the
sca i e3 and , come a conclusion the paper s
Part then is surely to get the better crowd
elected-whichever the better crowd may
b e m , the circumstances of the moment-
For a f ®w.weeks the independent thus be-
™mes ’ " ath ° , reser ™ tlons > . the P. ar r
tisan. Afteiwards, when the occasional jo
. cFo ° sm S betw een two or more has been
fimsh , ed ’ d *» ds other job of
searching for the truth and of reproving and
applauding without regard for party lines.
...
Mary Lamm’s 333.
It would be a mistake to view seriously
the insignificant vote that was cast for the
Communist candidates at the N.S.W. elec-
tion. The party’s public performances are
mostly feints and camouflage: the move-
ment depends almost wholly upon dropping
a man in here and there to get things done
by bodies which don’t know what they are
being lured into doing. It cannot hope to
get a majority of declared adherents and
form a frankly Communist Ministry for
years to come; but it can get a great deal
done by inoculating one or two energetic,
watchful politicians and dropping them into
a Ministry, trusting to a little Red to
redden the whole lump.
To make any large demonstration would
spoil the whole plan: so long as the public
can be persuaded that the Communists are
a mere thimbleful of eccentrics, with a
mania for contesting hopeless elections,
they will be able to carry on their real
work of white-anting and Bolshevising great
institutions which they could not hope to
capture by direct attack. So Maiy Lamm’s
333 against Stuart Robertson’s 10,599 and
Mrs. Kavanagh’s 54 against her opponents’
17,000 may be regarded as something like
the buttoner’s fit while his fellow-conspirator
goes through the pockets of the crowd.


MILD .
GOOD
fd
mm
sm;
Wmm
.
mr
■fe'
m
ml
m
m
PURE 'TOBACCO
some things
can't be
m.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Canberra was the scene last week of. about
the most ridiculous travesty of Parliamen-
tary government on record. Members had
been assembled from the six States foi an
emergency session, the Government having
given its word in writing that it would
balance the Budget, and being threatened
with a prodigious deficit. When they were
all in their places they were told, in ettect,
that they could run away and play for an-
other week, the Administration which had
summoned them from the ends of Australia
being without a programme. The closing
scene of the burlesque saw an angry Labor
Treasurer vote with the Nats, and Cockles
against a motion for adjournment impro-
vised, on his own responsibility, by a fatuous
party whip. It gagged, not only the Oppo-
sition, but the young man’s own ‘leader,
who wanted to explain the inexplicable.
FREE AIR, IF NOTHING ELSE.
“Mr. Lang will be Father Christmas to thousands
of N.S.W. families.”
The comedy at Canberra was preceded by
Labor Caucus deliberations (as they are
called! which lasted three full days. Trea-
surer Lyons unfolded plans for a tax on
tea, more cuts at “the higher incomes” which
the seven Treasurers are taxing out of exist-
ence, 10 per cent, off members’ salaries,
15 p.c. off those of Ministers, and all-round
reductions in Public Service pay. The
windbags from N. S. Wales, reinforced by
Theodore and by doctrinaires from other
States, turned these proposals down, and
Lyons threatened to resign. To smooth him
over, the cuts in Ministers’ and members’
salaries were approved of, and he was also
told that he might tax tea and slash at “the
higher incomes” and Public Service salaries
of £750 and upwards. But the windbags and
doctrinaires have committed the party to poli-
tical control of credit and currency, and
they talk boisterously of going to the coun-
try on this policy “early next year.”
Theodore went to ’Berra all ready to be
summoned back into the Ministry. He had
the support of the N.S.W. Labor executive,
and took advantage of the disfavor, with
which Lyons’s proposals were received to
criticise liis successor’s administration. This
was resented, and when Lyons hit back
spiritedly Theodore stocks fell. It was
reserved for the “Labor Daily,” however, to
blight Theo.’s hopes; that paper pointedly
declared that until he had cleared himself
of the Mungana charges his readmission to
the Ministry was not to be thought of. For
a man with a reputation for political
strategy, Theodore’s manoeuvres were
strangely ill-timed and clumsy.
Lang being Premier again, it is only right
that he should be reminded of his election
promises—party leaders are so forgetful. He
has undertaken to dissolve the Loan Council;
to “find the money to complete all those
uncompleted public w T orks in which many
millions of borrowed money are lying idle” ;
t>) go in for a “vigorous policy of road con-
struction,” the ideal being “a good road
from the farm gate to the railway station” ;
to “assist and stimulate industry generally,
by making special provision for the absorp-
tion of unemployed skilled tradesmen’’; to
“guarantee to the wheat-farmer a stabilised
market over a period of years” ; to reintro-
duce the 44-hour week; to “restore the
Widows’ Pensions and the Family Endow-
ment” ; to “remove the legislation by which
Public Service salaries wei'e reduced”; to
“promote closer settlement by breaking up
large estates” ; to bring in “legislation gov-
erning and regulating the interest rate to
be charged on mortgages” ; and to “rehabili-
tate the finances of the Gov-
ernment railways and tram-
ways.” A lot more promises
will be found in the ‘‘Labor
Daily’s” report of the policy
speech, but let the foregoing
suffice.
The compact creating the
Vic. United Cocky party was
sealed last week, when Dun-
stan, Cleary and Allnutt, the
erstwhile Progs, in the As-
sembly, and McCann, of the
same ilk in the Uppish House,
joined Allan and co. in the
Country party room. Glowrey,
who has not finished consulting
the Prog, branches in his elec-
torate, held aloof.
The reunited Vic. Cockies
have made Allan leader, Duu-
stan deputy-leader, Maekrell
secretary and Old whip. There
are 14 of them, with Glowrey
out. Nervous Laborites saw in
the Country-party manoeuv-
res a threat to the Govern-
ment, but both wings of the
Opposition have taken a sound
and unselfish stand. They have
offered to help Hogan to bal-
ance the Budget by conferring,
as was done successfully in
May on the unemployment-
relief tax. Victoria will yet
have its Elective Ministry.
The Vie. Nats, and Cockies object to
Hogan’s proposal to raise another £264,000
of "income-tax revenue, and the threatened
Federal additions strengthen their case. A 1
per cent, tax on bookmakers’ turnover or 2\
per cent, on winning bets is suggested as a
substitute for 6d. and 2d. on betting tickets
(now 3d. and Id.). It looks as if there will
be a compromise, which will extend to
the .proposal to treble the existing unemploy-
ment tax.
Since the days of the late McCuwley,
C.J., Queensland has had a State award for
pastoral labor. The Industrial Court has
now docked shearing rates from 40s. to 365.
per hundred, and reduced the wages of shear-
ing experts and grinders to £7 15s. a week.
All other rates are down approximately 10
per cent.
If it’s true that the way to prosperity is
paved with loans, S. Australia ought to be
on the pig’s back. It put up an easy record
in the one-year and three-year loan-spending
classes, scattering £ll 13s. 2d. per head in
1925-26 and £33 13s. Bd. in 1924-27. But
instead of being on the pig’s back it is bat-
tling with the swine for husks, and, after mak-
ing a vain appeal to the Commonwealth
Bank, has been driven to ask its own Savings
Bank for enough to pay its policemen’s
wages.
Local-government employees are the latest
to be included in the Bananaland economy
campaign. The Local Authorities’ Associa-
tion is asking the Industrial Court for a
five per cent, reduction of salaries and
reversion to the 48-hour week, together with
a general overhaul of awards.
“An adjournment of Caucus was arranged so that
Mr. Fenton might report to Mr. Scuilin over the
wireless ’phone.... Mr. Fenton had another consul-
tation with Mr. Scuilin.... Mr. Fenton conversed
with Mr. Scuilin for 20 minutes.”
MENIAL: “Another call from Australia, sir.
Mr. Fenton.”
MUCH INTERRUPTED STATESMAN: “Is a man
never going to have a meal in peace?”
The struggle to get money out of Aus-
tralia continues: every few days a new-
paling has to be nailed over a hole in the
fence through which a few pounds have been
furtively creeping. It still costs £lOO ss.
in Australia to pay an ordinary trade bill
for £lOO in Maoriland; but until further-
notice it is going to cost £lO4 7s. 6d. to
SCHOOL’S INLAND OUT AGAIN.
“The emergency session of the Commonwealth Parliament was
adjourned for a week without any attempt to do business.”
DOMINIE FENTON: “All present, I see. Had a good
holiday, boys? You have! Then go and have
another.”
ship £lOO to the Dominion for investment
there.
Unemployed have been turned on to road-
making and -mending by the thousand, and
thus the public has been buying guns to shoot
itself with; for the better roads have added
greatly to the service-car traffic, and railway
revenue continues to fall. Actually passen-
gers are being carried comfortably over the
Great Western road between Sydney and
Orange (192 miles) for 225. 6d., which is
less than second-class fare. It is a mad
business. Lang’s scheme of insisting upon
a complete monopoly of passenger-carrying
and of freight-carrying over long, distances
would be all right but for one thing—he is
more interested in p'.ling up costs, and, there-
fore, charges, than in getting them down.
There may be another reason why it has
become almost impossible for a Government
in Australia to win a Parliamentary elec-
tion. Every election is now an auction sale
of public-servant votes. Jones has been in
power three years and has been squeezed
dry; Brown has been in opposition three
years, and in his hunger to get back will
promise nearly anything. So there is a little
finessing to ascertain if Jones, the. milch
cow, is really dry; and when the animal is
found to be so. Brown, the new cow, is
driven in. So the changes are rung on the
two cows ; and the pubic pays. The public
servant can hardly be refused a vote, because
at certain times he is a citizen; but his capa-
city to decide who shall fill perhaps 20 seats
is over the odds. He will have to be given
separate representation.
The wild men of the Federal Labor party
have carried their scheme of financial reform
through Caucus, said scheme including the
issue of another 20 million notes. Of course
nothing will happen; the directors of the
Commonwealth Bank, who control the note
issue, will refuse to cut Australia’s throat,
and the financial reformers will tell their
duped constituents that they would have
done all they promised, only Gibson and his
colleagues stood in the way and must be
disposed of first. Meantime there is a hefty
Commonwealth loan falling due within a
few weeks, and thus far hardly a thing done
towards repaying it. In such cases the Gov-
ernment depends chiefly on renewals; but
it has been so busy destroying public con-
fidence ever since Scullin left for England
that unless the party shows signs of return-
ing sanity there will be a scramble for
the actual money. And that will give Fen-
ton a few more grey hairs.
It has been good luck for Australia, that
some of its bankers can remember the ’nine-
ties. But even bankers may be led into
doing things they know are unwise. In the
late ’eighties and early ’nineties men like
Gyles Turner* who for years had preached
' safe finance, were induced at last to give
! up fighting and go with the stream. There
I are indications that bankers to-day are
tiring of condemnation and abuse for not
giving more credit, and are making com-
' promises with themselves. For instance,
they have just begun to offer interest on
- money left with them for as little as a month,
’ and withdrawable at call afterwards. The
Langs and Ansteys, if they knew their job,
would flay any banker who lent too mucn
and risked a smash. Actually in their
ignorance they threaten to smash the banker
if he doesn’t take large risks of smashing tne
country.
The “non-political” N.S.W. Teachers
Federation is in early with its demands on
the victors. Says the “Labor Daily” :
At a meeting of the council of the Teachers
Federation, the view was expressed that the new
Government was likely to retain office, not only ip 1
the next three years, but for many succeeding yeavp-
Among the matters to be submitted at the fortn-
coming conference are the granting by the Govern-
ment of an Appeals Board, preference to members
of the Federation, and the adjustment of the Supei-
annuation Act. It has been determined to Ppcc
these in the forefront of many reforms which tne
Government will be asked to effect for the general
benefit of the teaching profession.
It is to be hoped that the conference won t
be too busy in this direction to answer
the charge of ex-Minister Bruxner that
“schoolmasters allied themselves with the
rowdy element at campaign meetings, and
even used their pupils to distribute political
propaganda”—a charge amplified by the
Ministerial candidate for Kogarah. The
“rowdy element” was so conspicuous that
freedom of speech was reduced to a mockery,
and the public would hate. to think that the
best-paid teaching body in Australia was
in any way associated with this ruffianism.
O’Smith had been on a fishing expedition
and was hungry for meat; and by bad ludk
he found it was a Friday. “Miss,” he said,
“have you any shark?” Of course Miss said
they didn’t sell shark. “Have you any fresh
salmon?’’ Of course, this being Sydney, she
hadn’t that either. “Then bring me a steak
and onions ; but God knows I tried to get fish.
Most of these political Labor gentlemen are
O’Smiths. They propose the hopeless things
that they have promised their misled con-
stituents they will fight for. Then the poli-
tical Labor gentlemen who have to put up
a reputation for sobriety and moderation
the Fentons and the Lyonses—point out
that such things are impossible (in short,
that shark and fresh salmon are not on
the menu) ; whereupon the other gentlemen
subside with a sigh. “Oh, well, give us
steak and onions; but God knows we’ve tried
to get fish.”
Fossickers for gold are becoming fairly
numerous in Vic. At every second or third
meeting of the Executive Council advances
for small parties are sanctioned. There were
36 groups on the last list; they were staked
with sums ranging from £l7 to £4B.
THE WALLFLOWER.
Britain isn’t a solitary example of its
type of empire. Holland, Portugal and
Venice were all States with a very small
homeland (much smaller and more exposed
to attack than the United Kingdom) and
very large external properties to defend. An
three came to get much, or most, of their
subsistence from abroad, and in a number
of ways the resemblance between them and
Britain was considerable. But it probably
means nothing. Resemblances seldom do.
“Strict Veg.” : In my opinion the sudden
offensive of the Melbourne police against
the (Communists was nothing more nor less
than a newspaper stunt. Most of the
allegedly sinister documents discovered in the
Communist Club have been available m an
Exhibition-street bookshop for five years. The
journal “Strife,” which is alleged to be so
red hot that it is liable to send Australia
up in flames at any moment, is a jejune pub-
lication which, read in cold blood, would
hardly scare the most timid citizen under
the bed. The editor is a youth of 19. Com-
missioner Blarney discovered that the
Reds were an urgent danger just as a local
journalist was concluding a series of articles
on the subject in a local sheet. There was
nothing in his revelations which had not
been known to the police for years, but such
is the hypnotic effect of the printed word
that the patriotic journal was deluged with
letters thanking it for saving the country.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Maritus”: Some folk have a grim sense
of humor. A forlorn female petitioning for
a divorce told how, after a quarrel with and
a separation from her husband, she had
offered to return if he would provide a home.
By the next mail she received a letter in
Brisbane telling her that there was a home
for her at number umpteen Blank-street,
Sydney. Full of joy she took steamer to
Sydney, and without stopping to admire the
bridge, hurried out to the suburb indicated.
It was only when she found the address
given was a vacant allotment that she
realised the full perfidy of man.
Hs * * *
“Nomis”: The most disconcerting inter-
jection in the N.S.W, campaign was made at
Burwood when Thomas Henley, M.L.A., the
plasterer knight, was addressing the electors.
“See my public record,” he said —“26 years
in the ’Ouse, 25 years a halderman, and for
30 years Jjve been connected with the Water
and Sewerage Board.” “So has our lava-
tory,” came a loud voice from the back.
* * * #
“R. Volt”: Any subscriber in the Eastern
States can now call up Central and ask
to be put through to any subscriber in
IJ.S.A., Cuba or Mexico. He will have to
choose his time, however, as the ether is only
kindly to the wireless ’phone between the
hours of four and seven in the evening
and one and seven in the morning. One of
the first calls put through from Sydney was
picked up by an airman flying over Buenos
Ayres.
# =■: * *
“Fleur de Maurice”: There are not many
oceans left for the aviator to conquer, but
probably it won’t be very long before
someone essays to cross the yawning waste
of waters between Westralia and South or
South-east Africa. It will be necessary,
however, to find some intermediate perching-
place first; even from
Albany to Mauritius is well
over 3000 miles. For such a
purpose the lone isles of New
Amsterdam and St. Paul, in
somewhere about the same
latitude as Melbourne, might
come in handy when in-
genuity can devise landing-
grounds on rocky specks in
mid-ocean. They have no
permanent inhabitants ex-
cept goats, but fishermen
from Bourbon come here
occasionally, and there are
cairns with provisions for
shipwrecked sailors. In the
days of sail, many people
had glimpses of them, and
most inhospitable places they
look. But, as aviation pro-
gresses, these and other lone
spots more or less midway
between two continents will
come in useful, simply because they are so
isolated.
* * * *
“Mempakul”: Lacquered finger-nails are
all the rage in London at the moment, accord-
ing to Mrs. Stuart Murray, a Melbourne
lady, who returned the other day. So uni-
versal is this delightful custom that Mrs.
Murray found the pale finger-nails of Aus-
tralian women quite strange. She herself
has the horny scales growing at the ends
of her upper extremities lacquered a vivid
rose pink, while her daughter prefers a more
delicate shade. I can understand Mrs. Mur-
ray’s feelings on finding herself the only
fashionable person in a barbarous land. I
was born in a district in Borneo where ’it
was fashionable to file and blacken the teeth,
compress the forehead with boards, pierce
the nose, hang rings in the ears until the
lobes hung below the shoulders, pluck out
the eyebrows, shave the head and perforate
the cheeks. I confess that when I landed in
Australia and found your girls going about
without any regard to appearances at all I
could scarcely contain my mirth, but I have
got used to it since.
“Iford” : It was at a suburban street corner
a few nights before the N.S.W. election that
I stopped to listen to a tall, lugubrious-look-'
ing candidate in a hard-hitter endeavoring to
impress upon a handful of auditors that the
present crisis demanded Strong Men. The
point he was laboring was that, although we
owed eleven hundred million, there was
no need to lose heart. “We’ve got to put
our shoulders to the plough, that’s all there
is to it,” he insisted. Unfortunately, or
otherwise, at this point a dogfight occasioned
a break in his oratory, and there was no
means of telling whether his metaphor was
regarded as an apt. one. I learned later that
he was a Billy Blazes candidate. Perhaps
it was as well that the activities of William’s
standard-bearers were mostly confined to
urban and suburban electorates.
=s * * *
“Facilis” : There used to be a vague idea
that anyone falling from a great height was
more likely than not to be dead before the
descent terminated and left him smashed to
pieces or drowned, as the case might be.
The experience of the workman who fell
170 feet from the deck of Sydney’s Harbor
Bridge the other day was quite different,
although how much further he could have
fallen without losing consciousness or even
will power is a nice question. Anyhow, being
apparently a practised swimmer and diver,
lie concentrated (after one somersault,
according to himself) on an endeavor to hit
the water feet first and with closed legs,
and was so far successful that he disap-
peared, hardly to bob up serenely but to
emerge with no worse injuries than two or
three fractured ribs and some minor results
of the tremendous shock. He even managed
to swim a few strokes, and might have swum
a good many if rescuers had not been handy.
A slower thinker and one less used to aqua-
tics would almost certainly have gone, a
whirling, gyrating mass, to destruction,
* * * *
“Ex-Englishman”: I can heartily support
“Oxmead” (B. 24/9/’3O) on the “human”
pose of Australian university heads, con-
trasted with the inaccessibility of the Eng-
lish. In my three years at Cambridge 1
never had a single word from the head of
my college; it simply wasn’t ex-
pected. Professors and lecturers
one saw at lectures. The “tutor”
to whom I was assigned (so far
as I was aware, he never taught
anything) was available if need
arose; but, leading an ordinary
work-and-sport routine, I saw
even him only at the end of a
term when getting leave to go
down. They were all in a dif-
ferent world from ours. Oscar
Browning, the sole exception,
kept open house at King’s on Sunday even-
ings—and was considered eccentric.
* * * *
“Oxmead” : Even in Australia duelling can
hardly be said to have gone quite out of
fashion in the ’forties, when Robert Lowe
refused to give the old form of satisfaction
expected of a gentleman to persons who con-
ceived they had been insulted by him (B.
29/10/’3O). But very few of such combats
terminated fatally. One exception occurred
in the early days of Westralia. The first
printing press seen in the Swan R : ver Settle-
ment arrived from Hobart in 1832, and was
presently employed in producing a paper
called the “Inquisitor” at Fremantle.
Among the contributors were a Scotch law-
yer named Clark and a merchant named
Johnstone. The pair somehow managed to
fall foul of each other, and instead of pur-
suing their vendetta in the manner that
commended itself to Pott and Slurk at about
the same period, they met with pistols on the
beach at North Fremantle —the only duel
fought in Western Australia, records one
historian with a certain pensive pride.
WHAT YOU’D CALL A FIGURE OF SPEECH.
“When Billy saw me bathing he said I had a beautiful figure.”
“Yes, they all do. It’s a matter of form.”
Clark’s bullet laid out Johnstone, who died
within 12 hours, the encounter proving fatal
to the newspaper, too, instead of giving its
circulation a boost. If the Scotch lawyer
was tried, he probably got off ivith a nomi-
nal penalty.
# J}: ❖ #
“Scots’ Church”: John Lang isn’t the
first Australian history-maker of the name;
the John Dunmore Lang whose statue
stands in Sydney’s Wynyard-square en-
joyed a reputation for pugnacity in his day
quite equal to that of his modern namesake.
He first took his seat in 1843 as one of the
six representatives of Port Phillip in the
old Legislative Council, and showed himself
a clamorous “new Stater,” _ being largely
responsible for the separation of Victoria
from N.S.W. Eleven years later he was
returned for. one of the Moreton Bay con-
stituencies; and never rested until Queens-
land had its own Constitution. He looked
forward to an independent Australia with
seven United States: N.S.W., Victoria, Tas-
mania, S. Australia and three divisions in
the north to be called “Cooksland,” “Leich-
hardtland” and “Flindersland”—the two last
he subsequently re-named “Capricornia” and
“Carpentaria.” He does not seem to have
troubled about W.A. From 1859 to 1869 Lang
sat in the Assembly, a doughty old fighter
for a liberal franchise, land reform, triennial
Parliaments, postal reform and the aboli-
tion of State aid to religion.
DOUBTS ABOUT DADDY.
“And every night while I’m away you must ask God to make you grow up like daddy.”
“Yes, but, mummy, the other night when daddy came home I heard you tell him he
ought to be ashamed of himself.”
“Mells”: In connection with the purchase
of those Suez Canal shares (B. 29/10/’3O),
it is worth noting that Dizzy’s latest
biographer, D. L. Murray, doesn’t bring
the Bank of England into the transac-
t:on at all. According to Murray, the Tory
leader needed four millions spot cash unless
French financiers were to get the shares, and
when Queen Victoria, whom he had impressed
with the rareness of the bargain, asked where
he proposed ■to obtain the money—Parlia-
ment wasn’t sitting—he said simply
“Sidonia.” That was Disraeli’s fiction-name
for Baron Lionel de Rothschild. To the
baron the Prime Minister’s private secre-
tary, Corry, went forthwith, and found him
sitting over his wine and walnuts. “You
shall have four millions to-morrow,” sa’d
the financier; the historian notes the readi-
ness to oblige as being characteristic of the
freemasonry among the Chosen. Rothschild,
however, charged for the accommodation a
Commission so thumping that it led to some
unkind remarks in Parliament when the
transaction was endorsed. Di?zy cared little;
he was always liberal with other people’s
money, and he knew he had done a master-
stroke for the nation.
# * * *
“Shaws”: Darwin isn’t the only munici-
pality to complain a little ruefully of the
cost of entertaining distinguished visitors
in these hard times. The town council at
Palmerston North (M.L.) knitted its brows
hard When the Department of Internal
Affairs politely called upon it to entertain
30 officers and n.c.o.’s of the Netherlands
squadron. Some opposition was voiced
but the Mayor (“with' something of
that old-fashioned hospitality which made
an impoverished Italian nobleman sacrifice
his only falcon to provide a meal
for his guest,” commented a local paper)
said that courtesy demanded some enter-
tainment, whether they could afford it or
not. The first motion was that the
expenditure should be limited to £2 10s.,
which, it was poin ted out by a rigid econom-
ist, would provide an eighteenpenny meal
for each guest and leave a trifle over for
buns to eat on the train. The Lauder-like
proposition was over-ruled, however, on the
ground that the visitors would expect to be
shown the scenic and other beauties of the
district, and the Mayor was given
a slightly freer hand. He had to promise,
however, that the cost of the entertainment
wouldn’t exceed £lO before the council passed
on to the discussion of roads and culverts.
* * * *
“Centurion”: An incident of the revolu-
tion in Brazil was the shelling by the forts
at Rio of a German steamer which was
trying to get out of the harbor in a hurry.
The list of killed and injured was a heavy
one. Before 1914 such a happening would
have brought the mailed fist of Germany
down on the unhappy “spiggotties,” Monroe
doctrine notwithstanding. Nowadays, though
quite equal to tackling Brazil in spite of
the Versailles Treaty, and with a huge Ger-
man settlement in Southern Brazil to come
to her assistance, Deutschland is not equal
to taking Yankeeland on as well. Matters
will doubtless be settled by the avenues of-
apology and cash compensation.
* H= * *
“Pawang”: The blood-transfusion corps
started in Melbourne by the Red Cross
Society a year ago already has more than
50 saved lives to its credit. One child has
had no fewer than seven helpings of vital
fluid from the veins of various members of
the organisation, which now has 150 on its
roll.
❖ ❖
“Mug Gunner”: Curious were the little
things, remote from the horrors of war, that
impressed themselves upon you in war-time.
Whenever I think of Villers-Bretonneux it
isn’t of a shell-pounded scrapheap of broken
brick and mortar, but of red, white and black
currants. Every back yard and side area
seemed full of the canes, and while trees lay
splintered the bright berries waved invit-
ingly, unharmed by the furious bombard-
ment. Countless were the berries we ate
while yet the battle-smoke hazed the town;
the white were by far the most delicate. Vil-
lers-Bret. and currants ! Strange—but thei’e
it is.
* * * *
“Pawang”: All the cures aren’t effected
by the medical men. Sixteen years ago
a Brunswick (Vic.) girl began to lose her
mental faculties. She finally became so dull
that she was taken away from school. In
1927 she was certified and sent to a mental
home. Recently her mother had her out on
leave, and, in response to an advertisement,
sent her to a nursing home. The matron
suspected something wrong with the ear,
and, inserting a probe, discovered a foreign
body. It turned out to be a jagged piece of
quartz, and since it has been removed the
patient has gradually recovered her wits,
and is now on the way to recovering normal
speech. It appears that she put the stone
there herself in play, forgot to mention it,
and when her mental processes began to
decay lost all recollection of the incident.
KNEES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The disappearance of knees is the most striking
feature of the new summer modes.” —Fashion note.
Phyllis, I doubt your sex’s curves and lines
Have altered much since Eve in Eden
span,
Or lone GSnone mourned ’neatli Ida’s pines
When Paris to a comelier charmer ran,
Or Cleopatra’s high old time began,
Or Romeo had Juliet’s waist to squeeze;
But has the most infatuated man
Ever, I wonder, raved about your knees?
Faces there are to launch a thousand ships;
Figures to set a citadel aflame;
Eyebrows demanding sonnets; eyes and lips
That positively clamor for the same;
And when it comes to ankles many a dame
Has spurred to song Apollo’s devotees ;
But when did even forthright Villon frame
Ballade or rondeau to a ladye’s knees?
Time was, my dear, your sca b twinkling feet
Provided an imaginative knight
With the material for that rare conceit
Concerning “little mice that fear the
light.”
Shyness and tininess combined —too right!
But bards who look and lilt in times like
these
Persistently have scrupled to indite
Such lyric metaphors about your knees.
Princess, of dainty neck and shoulders white
Give us the dizzy limit, an you please.
But there are joints were seemlier out of
sight.
Perdie, we’ve had a quantum stiff, of knees.
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


“Hamer” : The faithful hound got an air-
ing in the N.S.W. Divorce Court recently.
The respondent, it seemed, had gone out
with the excuse of a business appointment
when the lady unchained Rover and encour-
aged him to take up the trail. The friend
of man —a false friend in this instance—gave
one joyful bark and set off with the family
in pursuit—a mother-in-law, brother-in-law
and elder daughter were in the party, besides
the wife. Rover’s owner was lying on the
sweet, warm sands when he heard the glad
bark of his pet, and the animal bounded
affectionately upon him ; what he felt when
a group of accusing figures emerged from the
darkness demanding an explanation of his
tete-a-tete with the lady-help must be left
A SURPRISE ALL ROUND.
“Fancy a cow lying right in the middle of the
road like that!”
“Yes; I couldn’t get over it!”
to the imagination. Anyhow, the petitioner
got her decree. What became of Rover
wasn’t mentioned.
“Rubric”: An out-of-the-common assault
ease was heard at Sydney Central Police
Court last week. One daughter of Eve
was charged with approaching another, who
was seated in a motor-car, and deluging her
with the contents of a large-sized bottle of
red ink, to the temporary damage of No.
2’s complexion and hair and the permanent
ruin of 30 guineas’ worth of clothing. Of
course the usual triangle was involved ; the
assailant’s husband, it was mentioned, -was
separated from her, and was boarding at
the other lady’s home. Not the least striking
feature of the row was that there were no
vocal ‘ accompaniments. “No words were
spoken by either of us,” said the complainant,
recounting a scene which reads like a bit
of Hollywood. The beak reckoned that a
10-shilling fine and 15 guineas’ damages was
a fair thing. Ink, after all, is less viscous
and possibly less contumelious than tar or
pitch.
* * * *
“Ida D.” : A “mynheer” does often speak
of himself as a “Dutchman” (B. 22/10/’3O),
though not as a “Deutscher.” But he
prefers to be a Nederlander. He distin-
guishes between a Hollander (a man from
the provinces of North and South Holland),
a Frieslandcr and a Zeelander. There are
recognisable differences between the three
in speech, appearance and manner. North and
South Holland abut on the North Sea, and
communication between there and England
was more general than with the inland parts,
so the name “Holland” was applied by
Britons to the whole of the country. But
I have rarely heard a Dutchman speak of
his home country except as “The Neder-
lands.” In North and South Holland, and
in Zeeland, the people pronounce words like
“butter” and “bread” much as we do; in
other parts they say “boter” and “brod.” In
Friesland they speak with a Scotch burr,
doubtless because for generations the Dutch
fishing fleets from Friesland have mingled
with the Scottish trawlers for six or seven
weeks every year. Many of our nautical
words, such as “yacht,” “yawl” and
“schooner,” are derived directly from the
Dutch.
ijs : I> -! ; •!»
“Strousers”: “The McHaggis” is wrong
when he says (B. 22/10/’3O) that all Vic.
motor-car numbers below 200 are reserved
for the Crown. Nos. 3 and 5 are emblazoned
on Rolls-Royces, 7 is on a Lancia, 150 is on a
Packard Eight, and the lucky 13 has been
on a succession of Chryslers owned by one
of Melbourne’s social lights.
* * * *
“Flagwagger”: We Diggers made fun of
the vanities of Tommies, Yanks and Frogs;
nevertheless we outdid them all in decorating
uniforms. The A.I.F. alone used distinctive
color patches for each unit, and on receiving
a new tunic a Digger would feel naked until
he sewed on his unit colors. Soon after Anzac
a golden A began to appear on
the color patches. Many units
delighted in hat plumes, com-
monly known as “kangaroo
feathers.” Infantrymen often
persisted in rolling putties up-
side down, and puckered hat-
bands were sported instead of
plain ones. And thousands of
Diggers replaced plain overcoat
buttons with those of brass
showing tne map of Australia.
We further loaded our tunics
with chevrons ; a golden one for
each time wounded, a red for
1914 service and a blue for each
years of service. And how
eagerly every man Jack of the
6th Brigade took advantage of
that furphy about the brigade
winning King’s colors (whatever they may
be) by sewing battalion colors on the backs
of tunics.
$
“Whitehall”: “O McKay M.” says (B.
29/10/’3O) I “obviously had in mind the
West End of London” when I said England
was the soberest country in the world. Non-
sense ! I only dealt with the unfashionable-
ness of boozing in the West End because I
had already quoted Rev. H. C. Foreman’s
statement that he “had met with less drunk-
enness in the poorer quarters of Londbn than
in Sydney.” I know the East End well. It
still has its drunks, of course, but nothing is
more impressive than their decrease in num-
bers since the war. And the same applies to
most other parts of England. The Home
Office statistics for last yeah show a drop
in convictions for drunkenness of 3676,
or 6.61 per cent, as compared with the
figures for the previous year; and they also
show that the convictions were fewer for
all England than in any one year since
1918. Taking the 1929 drunkenness convic-
tions by county boroughs, only one borough
—Southend —shows an increase on any year
since 1913. And Southend, the East Enders’
Brighton, has increased enormously in popu-
lation in the last 17 years.
❖ ❖ ❖ J{:
“Sixenate”: The Melbourne office boy who
obtained £l5O for slander was far from being
“the youngest Australian” to sue on that
account by hi.s next friend (B. 29/10/’3<JL
Over 20 years ago a five-year-old youngster
of Redfern, Sydney, appeared as a success-
ful litigant. He was in the care of his
grandparents when a crocliety landlord,
moved to anger by some damage to his pro-
perty, made remarks that reflected on the
boy’s legitimacy. Grand-dad brought an
action for his charge, and £5O was awarded,
with a direction that it should be held in
trust till the urchin came of age. Judi-
ciously invested in one or two cheap blocks
in a rapidly-growing suburb, it had increased
in value twenty-fold when it was handed
over.
* * * *
“Keyrod”: When the steamer Rodney
with her load of Victorian free laborers tied
up at Moorara during the shearers’ strike on
that night in August, 1895, her head was
upstream with the empty barge behind. The
Victorians were not on the barge, as stated
by “E.J.D.” (B. 8/10/’3O) ; they were in
the hold of the Rodney itself, mostly on
straw mattresses. After they had been
belted ashore on to the sodden wet swamp,
the skipper, the crew and one woman were
put on the barge, which was allowed to float
downstream. The Rodney was then fired and
cut adrift. Most of the 23 men concerned in
the attack walked from Tolarno camp to the
other side of Poly and back between dusk
and ten next morning, easily 50 mile's.
❖ ❖ He
“C.A.8.”: A resident of Caulfield (Vic.)
claims to possess the oldest clock in Australia.
Of the grandfather variety, it
is believed to have been ticking
for 300 years. In each corner
of the face are figures repre-
senting the four seasons; the
two weights together turn the
•scales at 331 b. The maker was
B. Smith, Guernsey, Channel
Islands.
THE LONG ARM AGAIN.
BILL: “Myrtle told me you and she had the bust-up through a coincidence. What’d
she mean?”
JILL: “Oh, we found out we were engaged to the same man — that’s all:’
“R. Volt”: Press warnings about death
in the wire had the opposite effect to that
intended in a case at Frankston (Vic.).
An old man of 76, who had lost £2OOO at the
races, decided that to climb up a standard
supporting the wires of the electric train
would be an easy way out of his troubles. He
had heard that if he got his hands on the
cable he could be Sure of the convenience of
an instantaneous death. No sooner did he
grasp one of the iron stays, however, than
he got a violent shock which hurled him to
the ground. He died while being treated for
a broken hip. »
* * * *
“Hamer” : A very old lady of my acquaint-
ance —she is close on 90 —mentioned casually
that she has one great-grandson who is a
Rhodes Scholar, and another who is an
inmate of a reformatory. The contrast
seemed striking, and I asked for further
details and got a whole string of them. _ She
had a family of 14 herself, and has 57 living
grandchildren; one
of them is an ex-
ceedingly opulent citi-
zen, and, according
to his elderly rela-
tive, “he’s as mean as
dirt; so was his
father.” There are
two lawyers and a
doctor in the family,
four storekeepers,
three electricians, a
journalist, a master
printer, the skipper
of an inter-State
steamer, three tram
conductors, a vege-
table hawker, three
laborers, a book-
maker, a pastoralist,
a wheat-farmer in a
big way, a shearers’
cook, a union secre-
tary and a shop-
assistant, who is also
a minor poet—and it
struck me 'that he
wasn’t far from
being her greatest
pride. She lost five
of her grandsons in
the war, and nine others served in it. Her
children, she made it plain, all started off. the
same mark; each had a sound education with
no trimmings.
*''*•''*■*
“Wiffles”: A quaint old-established busi-
ness which the hard -times have wiped out
was the hairdressers’ college which flour-
ished in Cooper-street, Sydney. Years
ago, when I had £lO, I bought a
six-weeks’ tonsorial course at this aca-
demic saloon, which opened early in the
SUCCESS THRUST UPON HIM.
THE MAN ( confidentially ): “I owe all my success to my wife.”
THE GIRL: “Your wife! Why? You’ve done nothing hut growl about her extravagance
ever since I’ve known you!” .
THE MAN: “Just it. She spends such a devil of a lot I’ve got to keep bucking round
to make it.”
morning to admit the hapless. subjects who
were to provide six students with the means
of learning their craft. Some came in for
a haircut or shave, but the majority for a
wash; and the single towel issued daily to
each operator would soon turn from white
to black. But in order to get a wash “cus-
tomers” had to submit to a shave, whether
they desired one or not, and there were no
beg-pardons when the razor slipped, for the
service was free. Satisfied patrons were
nevertheless allowed the privilege of paying.
The takings averaged fourpence a day.
“Adelaide” : A much-discussed divorce suit
in Adelaide, with costs said to be £6OOO, has
resulted in a Morpliett Vale vinegrower
getting a decree, the third party being
an accountant, originally from Melbourne.
“She was a woman of 47 or 48,
said Chief Justice Murray in giving
judgment. “He was a young man of about
26 or 27. I cannot doubt that she was pos-
sessed by an infatuation for him; though
at first there was talk of his being a desir-
able suitor for her daughter.” A cross-peti-
tion by the wife, “misconduct and cruelty,
was dismissed. The case lasted 39 days, and
various well-known Adelaide names came m
as innocent friends of the parties; but under
a recent Act none of the evidence could be
published until all was over.
“Fitzjay”: Letchworth, on the border
of the Federal Capital Territory, named
after the model village of Letchworth
in England, is a N.S.W. example of a town
that has failed to materialise. Lithographs
show parks, gardens, squares, etc., and desir-
able sites have been allocated for churches,
schools and theatres; but all that exists is
a tinpot railway station, at which a tram
seldom stops, and one vacant cottage.
* * * *
“Dux”: Three Dunedin (M.L.) medicoes
and a lecturer at the Medical School in the
same dour burgh made martyrs of them-
selves in the interests of scenery preserva-
tion the other day by hewing down a Gov-
ernment advertising sign in _ beautiful
Ivauarau Gorge. They did a public service,
but a matter-of-fact P.M. frowned on their
unorthodox methods and ordered the quar-
tette to contribute £2O in fines and damages
to an outraged Treasury.
* * =i= *
“Gad”: I can assure “Bridoon” that
French could not speak French (_B.
15/10/’3O) ; nobody who .ever heard him
trying to do so had any illusions about that.
In spite of many staff holidays in France
very few officers of the British higher com-
mand were much better. Sir Henry Wilson
was one brilliant exception, and he under-
stood the Gallic temperament as well.
r|S * ‘ * *
“Sliep”: Talking of souvenir-liunters, I
knew a Digger who got away with a heavy
Fritz machine-gun, complete with tripod and
accessories. After a knock he was given a
job back at Ordnance, where he had the run
of an enemy gun-dump. A gun was dis-
mantled until its component parts were as
small as possible, and every fortnight a bit
would start hpmeward. It took months to
get the whole gun in its dismembered state
on the way home, and then followed the
job of making up shortages due to torpedoed
mailboats and parcels grabbed by censors.
Each of the parcels had been carefully
scheduled and labelled;_ as often as the
receiver reported one missing a duplicate,
lifted from another gun, would.be forwarded.
I met the gun-runner after his. return, and
learned that his souvenir was in one piece
again, though he wasn’t game to try a clip
of cartridges through it. “Just as well a
man didn’t have to pay postage on the damn
thing,” he added.
THAT CHESTNUT MARE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It’s half-past eight, and in the town I know
They’re seeking partners for the opening
dance;
The ballroom lights with shaded, mellow
glow
Are doubled in the shining floor’s expanse ;
And, best of all, I know that she’ll be there—
If I could only catch that chestnut mare!
Three times across the clearing, up and
down,
For two long hours I’ve chased and cursed
the crock;
While feet are waltzing in the distant town
I’m dancing round a hundred-acre block;
And somewhere in the ranges close at hand
Two mating mopokes constitute the band.
Between the saplings on the ridge above
The full moon’s rising and the air is still.
The night seems made for music and for love,
But mopoke music hardly fills the bill.
And as for love, who knows? Enough to say
She’s jazzing nearly fifteen miles away.
That chestnut mare! Strange instruments
indeed
Fate uses for her purpose, yet it seems
A trifle rough to think a cranky steed
Should put the kybosh upon Love’s young
dreams.
For while I’m sneaking through the bush-
land green
Some other fellow’s whirling round Doreen.
VICTORIA.
ELLENVALE.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Money at Call
A few months ago, when the'total of Aus-
tralian bank advances crept up past the
total of Australian bank deposits, and firms
and cos. with debit balances were invited
to reduce them, various reputable cos. with
heavy overdrafts began to accept money at
call, paying up to 5 and per cent, for
the accommodation. It suited them very
well, notwithstanding the high rate of
interest, because they were usually
the banks 7 per cent, on daily balance.
Presently, however, oil and other big import-
ing cos., which find it very costly and diffi-
cult to send money out of Australia to their
headquarters, supplied some of these Aus-
tralian cos. with deposits, and the demand
fell away. But meantime the demand on
the banks for advances increased, without
aiiy increase in deposits, with the result
that banks are now offering 3£ per cent,
for money at call, with the proviso that the
deposit shall be left for at least one month.
The difference between one school of politi-
cian and the banker is that the former
thinks that “credits” can‘be “released” out
of nothing, whereas the banker knows that
he has to have money before he can lend it.
His present difficulty is to get it.
The Shock-freezing of Meats, etc.
Within the last year or so the great Ameri-
can meat-packing firm of Swift’s has taken
to marketing millions of small cartons of
meat frozen by a special process and in-
tended for consumption without any further
handling by the retail butcher. So promis-
ing are the prospects that the Australian
farmer and cattleman might well watch
developments.
The process depends on the fact that, pro-
vided small cuts of meat or fish (steaks,
chops, etc.) are frozen very rapidly, they
can be thawed out to be practically indis-
tinguishable from the fresh material. This
is due to the ice crystals formed within
the frozen material being small and causing
far less damage to the tissues than in the
case of air freezing, which is now in com-
mon use throughout the world, but which,
nevertheless, is a slow process, and one giv-
ing rise to the formation of large and dis-
ruptive ice crystals.
Shock-freezing is carried out by immer-
sion in brine solutions at very low tempera-
tures (50 degrees of frost), by which means
the foods are congealed 10 to 20 times as
fast as by present-day air methods. The meats
or vegetables are wrapped in transparent
cellophane, placed in cardboard cartons and
then frozen. The final selling is carried out
by chain stores.
A rapidly-growing trade is also springing
up in the marketing of quick-frozen vege-
tables and berries out of season. A quick-
frozen strawberry on thawing remains an
attractive berry, whereas a strawberry frozen
by the ordinary air method thaws to a pulpy
and unappetising mass.
What Can the Housewife Do?
“Visor” : There are 20 houses in my Brisbane
suburban street. Daily my neighbors and
1 are called upon by half a dozen butchers
and as many bakers, milkmen, butter-men,
icemen, grocers and greengrocers. Obviously
the whole community is called upon to pay
more for the commodities these people supply
just because there are so many of them. Yet
my tradesmen have served me well for a
number of years, and I hesitate to sacrifice
any of them. They are all striving to earn
an honest living, and even concerted action
among us consumers would be attended with
doubtful benefit to the community at large
and certain hardship to the tradesmen. On
every side my friends tell me “Yes, we are
doing without a maid” (or a gardener or a
laundress) “now; one must economise.” As
far as I can see most of these people are
economising for the benefit of their own
bank balances and without regard to the
effect on those who have served them. How
can we housewives help towards the improve-
ment of this situation? It is obvious that
something should be done.
The Lost Trade in Sleepers
“Bill Ding”; An Australian industry that
has practically gone out of existence, except
so far as local supplies are concerned, is the
hewing of sleepers. Much of the collapse is
due to the misguided policy of Government
departments in aiming at the preservation
of forests for the use of posterity, with the
consequent preservation of over-matured and
ill-developed trees. In every Australian
forest there are stands of trees long past
their prime, which, though no use now for
milling, could well be converted into sleepers
for export, and with reasonable royalties
and cheaper railway rates could compete
with the creosoted pine sleeper because,
although their first cost would be dearer,
they have a longer life to recommend them
and the saving in costs of early replacements.
To-day Australian sleepers land overseas at
from 9s. to 13s. 6d., according to distance
and local charges. Oregon pine sleepers land
in Britain for 6s. 6d. to 7s. The difference
could be met with reasonable conditions
here. Britain imports over 9,000,000 sleep-
ers per annum, mostly 9ft. x lOin. x sin.
This represents 560,000 loads of 50 cubic
feet, equivalent to 100 tramp steamers of
5000 tons. Imagine the business it would
bring to Australia’s railways and ports if
but a third of this trade could be won!
Rubber
The pass to which the rubber industry has
come was outlined by chairman P. J. Glass
to the shareholders of Bukit Kubu Estates,
a Melbourne-formed co. with plantations at
Serenbam, in the F.M.S. The prospective
decline in absorption of the product for 1930
is 100,000 tons, and even now only a few
plantations can show even any profit, and
the majority are working at a loss, heavy
in many cases. All attempts to outline a
scheme for the restriction of output have
failed.
The small native-producer was the snag on
which the Stevenson restriction scheme was
wrecked. The only hope of keeping him off
the market is to cut costs of production so
low that it will be impossible for him to tap
profitably, and that means co-ordinated effort
by all concerned in the industry.
There is, however, another possible allevia-
tion ; the present price is so much below pro-
duction cost that a material shrinkage in
production must follow automatically. One
indication of a lower production rate is the
news that large numbers of native laborers
who have been employed on the Malayan
plantations are being returned to India and
Ceylon. With rubber supplies shortening, the
demand should improve, and prices accord-
ingly. Meantime there is a long wait ahead
for shareholders in Malayan plantations.
Let’s Do Something!
Dear Bulletin, —The two outstanding
wants of Australia to-day are less imports
and more home employment—that is apart
from temporary financial accommodation in
London. I propose that an honorary board
should be set up to find out what actually
Australia could produce at a reasonable figure,
if the capital was available. A levy on all
wages to be then struck and non-negotiable
bonds issued to contributors in multiples
of £lO, which would draw no interest for
three years and thereafter 3£ per cent. I
propose to then subsidise any manufacturer
£ for £ who is willing to start manufac-
turing something we at present import and
wffiose “line” has been approved by the
board. The money loaned to be free of
interest for three years ; after that 4 p.c. to be
charged, to cover cost of administration and
repayments, with the right to pay back in fuli
before the expiry of three years without any
interest charge. The fund to be created to
be placed beyond the politicians and admin-
istered by the Government Savings Bank.
Of course there would be a big number who
would never weather the storm, and the
country would have to make up any losses,
but the saving in dole money would pay
many times over for any losses. The embryo
manufacturer would risk his own money,
so it is safe to assume that only practical
men would experiment.
I have been in the industrial movement all
my life, and I do not think there would be
any difficulty about the levy on wages. The
big kick of industrialists about the unem-
ployment tax is that they pay 3d. in the £,
get nothing for it, and councils are charged
interest on the borrowed money to provide
work. —Yours, E. G. K.
Australian Cotton
L. R. MacGregor, Australia’s Trade Com-
missioner in Canada, told the Cotton Com-
mittee of the Imperial Conference that the
Australian-grown article is the best in the
world. It is free, so far.
from the boll weevil, which
has so seriously affected the
output of other cotton-grow-
ing countries, so much so,
indeed, that America is going
overseas for supplies of raw
cotton, the latest inquiries
being made in India. For
years it has been buying
Egyptian cotton, but here,
as in India, the weevil is a
menace which seriously
hampers the industry. India
is now building up a great
industry of its own in the
manufacture of cotton goods,
while most of the Egyptian
product goes to Lancashire,
as does the Nigerian and
Sudanese output. Hence
Uncle Sam’s need _to look
elsewhere. But high pro-
duction costs are as great a
handicap in Australia as
the boll weevil in other coun-
tries. Allowing for quali-
ties our cotton will have to
be produced at a price which
will enable it to be sold on
the world’s markets on a
parity with cotton grown
by cheap native labor. UntP
that comes about there will
be no market for Australian
growers but the internal one.
and it will be years before
that will permit of the
development of the industry
on the grand scale which
alone can. show sufficient
profit to raise the industry
to one of national import-
ance.
There has been a new
departure in company pro-
motion in M.L., where
Christchurch unemployed
have formed a co-operative
co. and registered it under
the Industrial and Provi-
dent Societies Act as the
Unemnloved Relief Associa-
tion, Ltd. The shares are
donated, and no dividends
are to be paid to holders.
One of the principal objects
is fishing, and any profits
made will be, used for unem-
ployment relief only. The
professional fishermen of the
locality regard this incursion
on their domain with mixed
feelings. The same position
arose during the N.S.W. coal
strike, when out-of-work
miners exploited the Lake
Macquarie fisheries and un-
dersold the regular practi-
tioners in their own market.
❖ *
The Federal Government
aircraft construction staff
completed a satisfactory iob
at Cockatoo Island (N.S.W.)
the other day. turning out
an aeroplane wing for one of
the Australian National Air-
ways monoplanes. The new
wing replaces one which was
smashed while the machine
was in transit from the Avro
works in England. It is
71ft. long and weighs 30cwt..
and is the biggest thing of
its kind yet made south of
the line. Wing-Commander Wackett saw
the job through.
* * * ■ *
Bosch spark plugs are to have a birth-
place in Melbourne. Two experts from the
German factory, with machinery worth
£9OOO, landed a few weeks ago, and produc-
fion will start shortly at the rate of 2000 a
day, soon to be increased to 4000. In person-
nel the concern is all-Australian except for the
factory manager and the machine-tool expert,
* * * *
Thursday Island is encouraging Australian
industry by using Leeton rice, and finds it can
close its teeth on about 300 tons a year
now. The Japanese and others on the
fishing-luggers stow a decided preference for
it over the imported product. One thing much
in its favor is its keeping qualities in a cli-
mate where cereals stored for any length of
time generally produce a wriggling bag-
ful of activity.
*'* ❖ *
The alleged decadence of England has not
prevented London making itself the centre
of the world’s wireless telephone system, just
as it made itself the clearing-house for the
world’s money transactions anti cable corres-
pondences. The London Post Office is
already in direct communication with Aus-
tralia, U.S.A. and nearly all of the European
Continent, and it will shortly be saying
“Hello” to Canada and Maoriland. Early
next year the English will be able to ring
up from their homes fully 90 per cent, of
the planet’s telephone subscribers.
* * * *
Although the big boats under contract to
carry the Maoriland mail across the Pacific
do not usually have to hurry much, the
Niagara on her last outward trip was
anxiously watched in case some untoward
incident should delay her. Her cargo in-
eluded a record shipment of 50,000 cases of
Maoriland butter, consigned to Canada, and
due to reach there with rather less than a
day to spare before the operation of the
new Canadian tariff against the M.L. pro-
duct! Running to schedule, the vessel
would reach Vancouver on October 10, two
days before the tariff came into force; but
the Canadian Customs authorities demanded
all documents regarding the shipment by
October 11. By landing the consignment at
Victoria instead of Vancouver, and for-
warding the documents by air, the job was
satisfactorily done.
* ' * * *
One result of the linking up of the N.S.W.
Northern Rivers and Southern Queensland
by the Sydney-Kyogle-Brisbane railway will
be a good market for calves, pigs and surplus
cattle. The big Brisbane slaughtering and
canning works claim they will be able to
treat 200.000 calves and a similar number
of pigs and cattle, while, given continuity of
supply such as would be ensured by the
Northern Rivers trade, which is not
affected by bad seasons to the same degree
as the Queensland cattle-runs, it is believed
that a contract to supply 200,000 tons of
beef for the English market can be pulled off.
* * * *
After being almost entirely Japanese for
many years, a change has come over Thursday
Island boatslips, and a European combina-
tion has once more tackled the repairing and
building of the craft which collects the
marine produce of the North. Only a few
“free men” are now left amongst the Japan-
ese workmen; and as the use of indentured
labor is restricted, there was an opening tor
the white slips again. A good lugger costs
about £l5OO to build these days; and when
be puts a boat up for repairs a man is lucky
f° get off under £5OO.
* * * *.
A Black Orpington hen, professionally
known as Te Kawau Princess, who (one
hardly dares to write “which”) broke the
world’s record m the Normanby (M.L,) egg-
laying competition with 361 hard-shelled eggs
in 365 days, has been sold to an American
fancier for £125 f.o.b. Auckland, March, 1931.
Mr* s - M addell is the owner. A cockeiel,
which had the honor of being hatched from
an egg which had the honor of being law
by the princess, brought £-5. Ihe £l-0 is
said to be the most ever paid for a lady fowl,
* * * *
Queensland beef got another lift in London
the other day when a small consignment from
Lake’s Creek meatworks was exhibited at
Smithfield. It came from a herd of polled
Herefords raised by William Leak, of the
Meadows station, in the Central District, who
was the first to introduce this breed to Aus-
tralia. The beef attracted general attention,
and the whole consignment was bought by
one of the big West End butchers, who is
starring it as an Australian product,
**. * * .
Amalgamated Wireless is engaged in ex-
periments between Braybrook (Vic.) and
Japan with a view to further extensions of
:he beam. At present a message to Japan
must take a course from anywhere in Aus-
tralia to Adelaide; thence via the overland
telegraph to Darwin and Banjoewangie;
thence by land to Batavia or sea to Singa-
pore; thence via Capo St. James in French
Cochin-China or Laouau, Borneo, to H'ong-
kong; thence via Sharp Peak to Shanghai,
where it has the choice of several cables to
Nagasaki. A successful beam service will
cut out about 10 separate handlings and a
couple of hours’ delay. Up to date it has
been found possible to communicate with
five kilowatts, which is less than a quarter
of the power used with the English beam,
This should lead to a reduction in rates, with
corresponding benefit to Australian trade.
“WE’RE OFF!”


The Survival of the FiTlesf-
This year a series of Road Races for standard cars has been run throughout
Europe—endurance races in which the world’s foremost drivers attain terrific
speeds. Of all of these strenuous tests, by far the most arduous were:
LE MANS GRAND PRIX IRISH GRAND PRIX
JUNIOR CAR CLUB “Double 12”
All these were won by cars fuelled and lubricated by Shell.
Such speeds for motors, fuels and lubricants are surely a survival of the
fittest. Make your choice Shell.
SHELL OIL & SPIRIT
A
m
V
*
W n
W
5.1096.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Lord Somers, who becomes acting-G.-G. at
43, was easily the infant among State Gov-
ernors. O’Grady (Tas.) is the patriarch at
64; Hore-Ruthven (S.A.) and Campion
(W.A.) are 60, Goodwin (Q.) 59 and Game
(N.S.W.) 54.
The calling with most representatives in the
new N.S.W. Assembly is that of union secre-
tary. Three new members come hot from such
-a job—R. J. Heffron, Botany (Stewards’
Union) ; D. McLelland, Drummoyne (Black-
Smiths’), and J. Flanagan, Randwick
(Coachmakers’). A fourth, F. P. Connors, of
Dulwich Hill, is assistant-secretary of the
Australasian Society of Engineers. There
are ten sometime union secs, now in the
House, the oldest being Stuart Robertson,
who was the first secretary of the Shop
Assistants.
Died in Sydney last week at 78, Kingsford
Smith the elder, a retired bank manager,
born, like his famous son, in Brisbane. _ The
world’s foremost airman is one of a family of
seven and the youngest of five brothers.
There were several new faces round the
saloon table when the Discovery sailed
for the Antarctic. A. Kennedy, land-
surveyor and physicist, who was in the first
Mawson expedition of 1911, goes south
instead of Commander Moycs, who after four
trips has got a shore .job. Plankton expert
J. W. S. Marr is replaced by a naval
surveyor from the Navy Board. Chief-mate
Mackenzie takes command and A. M. Stan-
ton is second officer. That great photographer
Captain Hurley is on board again. Amal-
gamated Wireless has installed a transmit-
ting set that will enable stay-at-home Aus-
tralians to listen-in to weekly descriptive
talks-from various members of the band.
Lancelot Stirling, one of S. Australia’s
G.O.M.’s, is having a birthday party to-day
(Nov. 5), and The Bulletin wants to be
at it; he will be 81, and is still quite fit
for his job of President of the Leg. Council,
which he has held for 29 years. That is to
say, he has been President of his Chamber
nearly as long as Danny Levy, father of
the N.S.W. Assembly, has been even a mem-
ber ; Stirling -was elected to the chair in
LANCELOT STIRLING.
S.A. a fortnight after Levy was elected to
the House in N. S. Wales. Alec Peacock,
the Vic. patriarch, arrived in ’B9; Stirling
can beat that by eight years. But he had
been and done many things before that —
had, for instance, won English running
championships in 1870. He was born in the
district he has represented in one House
or other for 50 years, still lives there, and
is interested in twice as many things as
most «ien.
Dr. Mildred Creed, who died in Sydney
last week, sat in Parliament as M.L.A.
for the Upper Hunter in 1872, when not
many Assemblymen of to-day were born. In
1885 he was appointed to the Leg. Council.
The doctor was born in Gloucestershire in
1842, and came to Melbourne with his parents
at the age of 19; he acquired some colonial
experience as a jackeroo before returning to
England to complete his interrupted medical
studies. He returned with his diplomas as
a ship’s surgeon, and began his professional
career here in 1866. He came to rank high
among physicians, and took with him to
Parliament that special knowledge of health
matters and hygienic questions that was to
make him a valuable public man. Always
a strenuous advocate of cremation, he intro-
duced the first bill on the subject, and did
more than any other man to bring it into
operation.
Sir Philip Chetwode, who has been
appointed to the coveted job of C. in C.
India with the
rank of general,
joined the 19th
Hussars in
1889 and saw
plenty of ser-
vice in Burma
and South
Africa. In the
Great Wa r
he commanded
the sth Cavalry
Brigade during
the retreat from
Mons. He was
placed in com-
mand of the
Desert Column
in the latter
period of the
Sinai campaign,
and it was he
who drafted the
daring scheme
which, begin-
ning with the
turning of the
Turkish left by
the mounted
troops at Beer-
sheha, ende d
with the cap-
ture of Jeru-
salem. Dapper,
good-looking and
debonair, he
was, in spite of
Dr. LITTLEJOHN,
headmaster of Mel-
bourne Scotch College,
the second largest in the
British Empire.
his eternal monocle, a tremendous favorite
with the Australian Light Horsemen and
Cameliers who served under him.
E. M. Brissenden, the monocled K.C. with
the face of granite, who died suddenly on
Friday, only became unpopular with a sec-
tion of the N.S.W. Bar once in all his 43
years of practice. That was when he
enlisted in the A.I.F. at the age of 54. It
proved publicly what everybody knew pri-
vately, that the need for men, however
elderly and unathletic, was desperate,
and so called the bluff of younger legal
lights who were posing as reluctant rejects.
The patriotic gestures of Adrian Knox,
Langer Owen (now a Judge) and Brissen-
den in joining up and sacrificing their prac-
tices “for the duration” were worth more
than many thousands of recruiting speeches.
Brissenden went overseas as an infantry
corporal, and did useful work later as a
claims officer in the 3rd Divvy. He was a
specialist in maritime law, but had a large
general practice. In his later years he could
have had a Supreme Court Judgeship, but
the suggestion came too late, and he dis-
couraged it. He was what the French call
“an original,” and his clean-shaven bullet
head and rugged features, adorned, as they
always were, with an eyeglass, added point
to the dry humor for which he was cele-
brated.
Digger Harold Luxton, Lud Mayor of Mel-
bourne, is a candidate for the Caulfield seat
in the Assembly, vacated by Col. Forrest’s
death, and looks like getting the Nat. nomi-
nation. Against him will be arrayed Men-
delsohn, who was the runner-up at the
general election on Nov. 30 last; Lieut-Col.
Savige; J. T. Packer, a local councillor; and
perhaps one or two others. Luxton’s late
dad was in the Uppish House for a few
years.
E. P. Kinsella, who won the new George’s
River seat for Labor against three opponents,
is regarded as one of the party’s most
promising newcomers. He started to earn
his living in the Lands Department 20 years
ago at the age of 17. Later he enlisted in
the A.I.F. and won to commissioned rank;
afterwards he found time to read law. He
has taken a keen interest in R.S.L. affairs.
Jelley, the veteran member of the Hill
Cabinet in S.A., after a holiday in Centralia
has agreed to withdraw liis resignation. He
returns to the lighter duties of Irrigation
and Local Government, his old portfolio as
Chief Secretary being taken over by Whit-
ford, who wili also be leader of the Leg.
Council.
Colonel David Reid, dead in Queensland at
66, came there from Scotland 45 years ago
to manage a mine at Gympie. Some years
later he took over control of the Scottish
Gympie group, one of the most famous of
earlier Queensland gold-mining propositions,
and was associated with many mining ven-
tures on that field. A keen volunteer soldier,
lie commanded a company of the Ist Q.M.I.
in the Boer War, collecting a D.S.O. The
later years of a busy life were devoted to his
grazing property of Cumbrae, near Gympie.
Died at Balmoral (Vic.) the other day,
aged 90, the widow of the late William Regi-
nald Hayman, manager of the very first
Australian team of cricketers to go to Eng-
land in 1868. W.R. was the elder brother,
of the late Archdeacon Hayman, of Mel-
bourne.
The King’s School, Parramatta, will keep
its centenary next year. Its first headmaster
was the Rev. Robert Forrest, M.A., and one
of his pupils still survives in F. C. Cox, of
Carlingford (N.S.W.), who attended the
school as a day-boy from 1848 to 1851, and
is now in his 93rd year. The veteran is the
father of Charlie Cox, Major-General and
Senator.
The pen sometimes slipped even in the
less-hurried days of 40 years ago. In a
par. recently taken from The Bulletin of
’BB it was incidentally mentioned that the
founder of the Sydney musical firm of
Palings was German. As a matter of fact,
he was a Dutchman, born at Rotterdam.
Few politicians see memorials to them-
selves erected and orated over, but Castle-
maine (Vic.) mustered in force the other
day when a bronze bust of Senator Harry
Lawson was unveiled in the old town by
Willie Watt. It was Watt who gave Lawson
his first portfolio, Minister for Lands, in
December, 1913. Four years later, Lawson
became Premier and held the job for six
years, having no fewer than 34 colleagues in
that period. McPherson, another retired ex-
Premier. like Watt, gave up a day to join in
the festivities.
A. E. Coldham, who died recently at 63
while on a train journey from Brisbane to
Melbourne, was born at Grassdale station,
Victoria, and began his Queensland experi-
ence as jackeroo on his father’s station at
Wolfang in the Clermont district. He
launched out for himself as proprietor of
Cavendish, in the so-called “desert region”
round Jericho, being the first to exploit the
advantages of the spinifex country for sheep.
In his later days he became chief executive
officer for the United Graziers’ Association,
and as such was the guiding spirit of the
pastoralist industry in Queensland. He was
a prominent member of the Q.T.C. and most
of the leading sporting and social clubs.
George Markham, who died in Queensland
the other day, was that unusual personality
in Queensland squatting a French cattleman.
Born in the Pyrenees of Anglo-French
parents, he came to Queensland at 19, leaving
after some years to manage a cattle station
in New Caledonia; he was there during the
native rising which resulted in the loss of
300 European lives. Returning to Queens-
land, Markham was a Government inspector
of stock and brands until he joined the
Q.M.E. as a cattle-buyer for the big export-
ing firm. A charming individual he was
highly popular in his adopted country. He
was 76 when the end came.
A. J. P. Wilson, who succeeds Peter Nally
as director of the Queensland Government
Tourist Bureau at Sydney, was born at
Cairns something under 30 years ago, and
started as a junior clerk in the State rail-
A. J. P. WILSON, of the Queensland
Bureau, Sydney.
way service. Most of his spare time has
been spent in familiarising himself with
his State ; he has explored the Barrier Reef
and travelled right up to Thursday Island.
Since his transfer to Sydney he has helped
to found the Queenslanders’ Association of
N. S. Wales.
Alf Billson, who passed out at the week-
end at his Toorak (Vic.) home, was formerly
member for Bogong and Ovens in the Legis-
lative Assembly. He held various portfolios
under Murray and Watt from 1906 to 191
and from 1921 to his retirement from Parlia-
ment in 1927, owing to ill-health, was Chair-
A. A. BILLSON.
man of Committees. He saved the Allan-
Peacock Redistribution of Seats Bill in 1920
by driving to the House when very ill and
pairing with McLachlan. The bill was then
carried. on the casting vote of Speaker
Bowser.
Mrs. Keith Miller, the Melbourne woman
who paid for a trip to Europe by selling
vacuum-cleaners from door to door and
returned as the first woman passenger to
fly to Australia, has developed into a first-
class pilot in U.S.A. She recently, secured
the women’s east-west record by flying from
Los Angeles to N’York in 21hr. 47min., lop-
ping more than four hours off the previous
best time. When the sturdy little woman is
not breaking records she conducts her own
flying school. Her husband is on the Mel-
bourne “Herald” staff.
One of the most travelled of Australian
doctors is Dr. C. L. Park, chief medical
officer of Australia House. He has just com-
pleted a six-months’ tour of China on behalf
of the League of Nations to reorganise that
country’s quarantine. H'e will represent the
league at the world congress of medical men
at Bangkok next month.
Died in harness, Sam H. Day, manager
of the Great Northern Tin Mine, Herberton
(Q.), in which he first worked as a boy.. In
the boom days of mining in the Cairns
hinterland, Day was Manager at different
times of nearly every show of note from Stan-
nary Hills to Herberton. After a. spell at
gold-mining in vVestralia and farming, Sam
returned to the Great Northern 13 years ago,
since when it has returned dividends total-
ling £42,000.
Died at Lancefield (Vic.), Mark Foy, a
councillor for 41 yea Ts. He was a nephew
if the founder of Foy and Gibson, Colling-
,vood and Melbourne, and cousin of Victor
Mark Foy, of the Sydney firm. He found
life pleasanter as a main-street draper, in
placid Lancefield than in bustling Smith-
street, Collingwood, or crowded Bourko-
street, Melbourne, where the old firm of F.
and G. spreads itself.
After looking at the matter all round, the
people who run this paper decided that it
wouldn’t be quite a fair thing in these times
to ask some of its readers to put up the
money for two Bulletins in one week. So
there will be no extra Christmas Bulle-
tin ; instead the cream of the drawings and
stories put away during the year for the
Christmas Bulletin will as far as pos-
sible be distributed over the ordinary num-
bers in December. The issue of Dec. 3 will
be nominally the Christmas Number, and,
besides carrying the ordinary features, will
be exceptionally rich in illustrations. The
Dec. 31 issue will be a special New Year
number; besides the ordinary weekly features
it, too, will carry its proportion of the
stories, verse and pictures usually found in
the extra Christmas number.


An improved Ford Truck
Underneath view of a test
truck ready for inspectio
Note sturdy steel torque
tube and radius rods.
m
g
Increased strength and
stamina from notable
strnctnral improvements
THE FORD 30-cwt. Truck —already famous for its
Value far above the Price —has now been not-
ably improved in strength and durability by important
structural alterations. Its new torque-tube drive and
sturdy rear radius rods give added safety, longer life,
greatly improved performance under rough condi-
tions and still lower operating costs to a truck which
has already proved itself as possessing these essential
qualities to an unusual degree.
New Torque-tube Drive.— The new heavy steel torque
tube surrounds the driving shaft and transmits all
driving thrust from the rear-axle housing to the heavy
centre cross member of the frame. This relieves the
rear springs of all but their normal function of cush-
ioning the load, improves riding qualities, and
lengthens the life of important chassis parts.
New Radius Rods. —The new sturdy steel radius rods
support the torque-tube in its function of carrying the
driving thrust and maintain the rear-axle housing in
perfect alignment under all conditions of road un-
evenness and sudden strain. They increase the Ford
Truck’s capacity for fine and lasting performance
under unusually difficult conditions and driving abuse.
Rigid Tests Prove Tremendous Strength —Exhaustive
tests of the Improved Ford 30-cwt. Truck have cov-
ered thousands of miles over shocking roads and
heavy tracks. The test trucks were deliberately abused
in every way in which misuse could be experienced
at the hands of roughest drivers. Gruelling haulage
of heavy timber through deep sand and over open
country; hauling heaped loads of gravel out of deep
pits and over deeply rutted tracks, were endured day
after day for weeks, without mechanical attention.
On completion of the tests the closest inspection by
Ford engineers revealed each mechanical and struc-
tural part in perfect condition.
Ford National Truck Week; sth to 12th Nov. 1930
See the Special Exhibition of Ford Truck Notable Improvements at the
Showrooms of Metropolitan Ford Dealers in each state .
fdg
fd
N.C. 34/B
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
Geelong :: : Sydney :: : Brisbane ::: Adelaide ::: Perth


SUNDRY SHOWS.
♦
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Sons o’ Guns”
Criterion “This Thing Called Love”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Mr. Cinders”
Comedy “The Road to Romance”
Tivoli “Happy Days”
State Movies and Talkies
*
“What?” said Snodge. “You’ve never been
to the Gaiety! You mean to tell me you
call yourself a dramatic critic and you’ve
never been out to the Gaiety in Oxford-
street? Strike a light! You’re like a cove
who was in our crowd on the other side.
I came across him one night about midnight,
leaning against a post in the middle of a
seven-acre paddock with a foot of snow all
over it and still snowin’. There wasn’t a
solitary soul within miles of him, and there
was old Bob leaning against that post abso-
lutely on his pat. ‘Hullo, Bob,’ I says.
‘What the deuce are you doing out in this
God-forsaken place?’ And what does he
say? He blinks at me and says, ‘By cripes,
Snodge,’ he says; ‘by cripes, I’m happy!’
“Pardon me saying so, but that’s what
you’re like. You hang around these Wil-
liamson shows, and Hugh D. Mclntosh’s, and
immature golf, and you’re happy. Happy
as Larry. All wrong, old boy. All wrong
to billy-o. Now take this joint, the Gaiety.
A fellow says to me, ‘Go out and see it,
Snodge,’ he says. ‘You talk about ’em hold-
ing the fort of vaudeville ! Fort be damned !’
that’s what he says. ‘Fort be damned!
They’re standing there trotting out their
stuff in the blackened ruins.’ Well, vaude-
ville mightn’t be in that possie altogether,
but that’s what he thought of it. Anyhow,
I went.
“Crack!
“I said CRACK!
“Absolutely. What’s the crack idea? No-
thing. Only a woman breaking a slab of
toffee on the back of my seat. I mean to
say, where I was sitting. Comfortable, too.
You can sleep in a darned sight worse seats
than they have out at the old Gaiety. But
this woman cracking her toffee on the back
of my seat sort of interested me. I had a
screw at her. Not a bad sort, either, as
women go.
t “A bloke. came on and started to recite.
Now, this is where I reckon you dramatic
critics miss out. What d’you do when a
bloke comes on and recites? Plug your ears.
“As big as a parcel of two bottles of beer.”
Don’t blame you in a way, but thereV more
in bloke reciting than a bloke reciting, if
you follow me. I mean to say, when this
Woke got a go on the woman behind said,
Gawd, ain’t he common?’ Well, that sort
or summed up the position. Listen to the
audience, old boy. Hang the performers!
They re mostly cronk, anyhow. But an
audience, I’m telling you, is worth listening
to. ■ F'°r instance, a dancer bloke came next,
vvell, there’s no need to listen to a dancer,
though you could hear this codger all right.
And what does the woman between sucks of
the toffee say ? She says, ‘Ain’t his legs
super? Llave you ever said a dancer’s legs
were super? Not on your life. No, you
leave remarks like that to critics who’ll be
quoted in the advertisements. Darned fool.
What happens when one of you critics gets
quoted in the advertisements? The boss
reads it, and you get your salary increased
for being a blithering idiot—or, at least, you
ought to.
Well, anyway, in this show on comes a
conjurer. Does a lot of tricks that you
ought to try on the youngsters, if you want
to find out the sort of words they teach ’em
at school these days. Of course, you can’t
blame the teachers. They pick it up in
the playground. Anyhow, the conjurer cove
opens an umbrella. ‘That’s bad luck,’ says
woman behind. ‘Yes, it’s green,’ says her
ohsider. ‘No,’ says the woman. ‘Opening
an umbrella indoors. It ain’t done.’ Well
the next item is a bloke whistling. How
does that ‘Barber of Seville’ thing go? Any-
how, that’s what he was on to. What does
the woman behind say? ‘Strewth,’ she says,
fancy lettin’ him whistle that! It’s pretty
hot, isn’t it? Didn’t the soldiers used to
sing it. _ Well, he goes off and on comes
a girl doing a bit of a hop round. ‘Gee,’
says, the woman behind, ‘she must be gettin’
old! Dunno what you think of it, but
that’s what I call criticism.
“Well, a bloke comes on and sings a song
calculated to make them American picture-
makers’ ancestors turn in Westminster Abbey
or Stoke Poges or wherever they are. The
strain of it was that we must all do our besr
to support the good old flesh and blood. I
liked the way he put the emphasis on the
and.’ , Anyhow, one line of the song was
Who d go to the talkies?’ The woman behind
says, Gawd, not me. This is penance enough ”
She might’ve been right. Then on comes a
parson bloke, imitating the Lord’s Prayer
Well, I’m not religious particularly, but I
reckon when you try to monkey with a thing
like that you’re looking for it. He got it.
He might be the bloke who did the cricket
sermon over the wireless when the Tests
were on. Anyhow, he was pretty cronk, and
when he came to the line, ‘Deliver us from
stagnation,’ the girl friend behind says in
a voice you could nearly hear in a tram,
‘Stagnation!’ she says. ‘Cripes, he’s well in
it !’ Then we had another conjurer bloke
who appeared to bore the girl friend behind
stiff. At least, she says, ‘Don’t go much on
this stuff, do you? Of course, I once saw
one of these chaps get through a keyhole.’
Rather blase, eh? Then there was another
turn. What does the woman behind say?
Well, I reckon you dramatic critics have a
lot to learn. She says, ‘Well,’ she says, ‘at
least they have the decency not to put his
name on the programme.’ Another fellow
“By cripes, Snodge, I’m happy!”
comes on then and sings a song about
Mother. ‘He gets his money easy,’ says the
girl friend behind.
“But this main part is only the beginning.
As a matter of fact, the mob in the place
seemed more or less petrified until a chap
with a white shirt front came out and says
‘Ladies and gentlemen, we’ve been having
a try-out competition here for the past few
weeks. You will see the finalists to-night.
The first prize is three pounds.’ Well, appa-
rently, this is what the mob was waiting
for. They woke up. Never saw an audi-
ence wake up like it. They buzzed. The
woman person behind shut up like a rat-
trap. A cove in front put up a pair of
opera-glasses as big as a parcel of two bottles
of beer. And you know those fellows you
talk about sometimes —the Dismounted Pos-
tilions, Attaboys. Well, they’re here, too,
only they’re human codgers. If you met one
of them in the street you’d say, ‘What about
one?’ or ‘Pretty tough, that Phar
Lap business, don’t you think?’ or something
like that. Human? Absolutely. As a
matter of fact, they’re disguised as audience.
Anyway, even they stood up to attention.
“Then the try-out business started. The
first turn got more applause than the main
part of the show could have dreamt of. So
did the second, and so on. Then they lined
’em all up on the stage and asked us to
vote by a show’ of hands. Well, I voted for
the lot. Fair thing, I reckon. And there
were three codgers on one side of the stage
and one on the other and another in the
middle, making five, and the w 7 ay they
counted those hands up was simply miracu-
lous. A bit of a girl about three feet
high won, and a dancer chap came second
and somebody came third. Well, the crowd
v/ent delirious. The girl that won was
handed a box of chocolates —fully a pound
of them —and somebody else got a bunch
of nasturtiums. And then, or it might have
been before, a lot of flags were produced—
French (silence), Belgian (silence), Union
Jack (silence), our Flag (silence), Ameri-
can flag (tumultuous applause). Mind you,
I’m not moralising. I’m stating the fact.
Saw the same thing at that Williamson
show ‘Sons o’ Guns.’' Half a dozen flags
went by. Silence. American flag. Loud
cheers. Draw what you like out of it. I’m
simply stating gospel.
“Well, that’s vaudeville at the Gaiety.
You mightn’t like it, perhaps, being a theatri-
cal critic, but I reckon it’s a jolly good
night’s outing. And don’t forget this either
—the highest price is eighteenpence. Back
stalls a zack.”
* * #
Melbourne Comedy may have a hoodoo, but
at the moment it is also possessed by a
delightful entertainment. That entertainment
is Miss Edith Taliaferro. A poor play will
often keep a good actress dowm, which may
explain why present critic has not been
able to enthuse over Miss T. hitherto. “The
Road to Rome,” fatuously renamed for the
occasion “The Road to Romance,” is by that
witty American writer Robert Emmett Sher-
wood, and is a play which demands the
highest intelligence in the leading lady. Miss
E. Taliaferro rises to the occasion and in
places even mounts above it. One’s memories
grow dim, but if Miss T.’s performance is
not as fine as Mrs. Patrick Campbell’s in
“Pygmalion” it is the nearest thing to it.
Miss Edith’s voice is slightly lacking in
color, but there are 49 ways of making a
voice appear to have color, and she uses 48
of them. The plump little lady s art, in the
“Handed a box of chocolates—fully a
pound of them.”
latest exhibit, at any rate, is polished, mani-
cured, pedicured, massaged and waved to
the last degree and yet conveys no suggestion
of artificiality. Miss T. is delightful in her
lighter moments, but she can also rant amus-
ingly, which Irene Vanbrugh couldn’t.
To make a -Roman matron of 216 b.c. as
real as a Collins-street flapper sucking syn-
thetic orange crush through a straw is an
achievement, though the playwright is of
great assistance. He has couched his
allegedly historical play in modern colloquial.
When Leslie Fabius Maximus Victor
announces that, 70,000 Romans having been
destroyed at Cannae and Hannibal being at
the gates of Rome, he has been made dic-
ss Taliaferro Amytis, his wife, says,
Doh, isn’t that nice!” and sails out after
her dressmaker. When she suggests a night
at the theatre to see “GMipus Rex,” Nellie
Mortyne Fabia, wife to the dictator, remarks,
CLdipus Rex?’ Certainly not! Probably
the coarsest plays ever written.” When
Fabius endeavors to frighten Amytis into
patriotic hatred of the Carthaginians by re-
lating that after the passage of Hannibal
there was an epidemic of babies in Cisalpine
Gaul, Amytis retorts, “Good for him!” and
becomes deeply interested in Hannibal, her
own husband being singularly lacking in the
more manly qualities. Fabius and his fellow
patriots having decided to die like Romans,
Amytis escapes to Hannibal’s camp and
endeavors to tempt the Carthaginian general
into her embraces. Acting on his profound
knowledge of the theatre, present critic here
offered ten to one against a plausible finish.
He was a bad tipster. Mr. Sherwood main-
tains his blandly sceptical attitude, and the
final curtain is as human and amusing as
the rest of it. Hannibal calls off the sack
of Rome in gratitude to the lady. Lland-
ing her back to her husband, lie congratu
lates that gentleman on the possession of
such a noble woman, and makes a polite
reference to their children. Fabius explains
that he has no children. “Oh, but you may
have,” remarks Hannibal, “and if you do, I
hope they will have the virtues of their
father.”
Next to Miss Taliaferro, Leslie Victor's
portrayal of the pompous cuckolded Fabius
is the finest piece of acting. Hannibal has
the benefit of J. B. Rowe’s innate solemnity
and sincerity, embellished with the neatest
hint of underlying sensuality. The rest of
the cast are up to their job and the produc-
tion can’t be faulted. Incidentally, the play
is evidently intended to be anti-war propa-
ganda, in which aim it fails in the same
measure as it succeeds in being a good human
story. And that, paradoxically, makes it all
the better propaganda. It is a play Shaw
might have written if he were not quite so
Shavian.
* * *
The Melbourne Office Flapper writes:—
I was going to the pictures on Saturday
night as usual but the Dramatic Critic took
“Might be the bloke
who did the cricket
sermon."
me on one side
and he seemed
quite .serious. Lie
told me it was a
scandal the way
these American
talkies were de-
stroying our
National Culture
and replacing it
with false Ideals
and stultifying our
Indigeneous Psyche
and the way we
girls are all talking
like Clara Bow
nowadays is simply
disgusting and how
could a girl under-
stand the Problems
of the Common-
wealth and the
Red Heart of the
Outback and the
Spirit of Anzac
and the importance of the great Pri-
mary Industries only looking at them
from the back windows of a limousine on
Sundays and there was a play on at the
King’s called “The Newlyweds” and it
was by Kate ILowarde who was a leading
Australian dramatist and the stage was the
true mirror of life and it was my duty as
an intelligent Australian to go and see at
least one Australian nlay before I died and
would I tell him all about it because he had
a date on.
So I went and believe me it was a
Revelation. I mean, it shows how a girl
can grow up and know nothing at all about
the country. I mean, I had no idea before
1 saw “The Newly-weds” that the popula-
tion of an Australian township consisted of
one (1) hero, one (1) heroine, one (1) vil-
lain, one (1) dear old mother, and four (4)
low comedians with names like Anastasia
Culpepper suffering from mental deficiency.
So I asked the girl who went with me if
the villains, the sane people and the lunatics
were always in that proportion and she said
yes, she .had seen several Australian plays
and she had never seen the ratio any dif-
ferent.
Then Norman Barrington came on and
the other girl said that’s the villain. And
I said how do you know, and she said be-
cause he is called Silas Crawley and he has
the best riding-boots and he talks like Ham-
let with adenoids and it is he has the
mortgage over the old homestead. And I
said, how do you know—he hasn’t said so?
And she said the villain always has the
mortgage over the old homestead. And she
said, now he’s going to make an improper
proposal to Marjorie Carr and she is going
to say, Villain, unhand me, and then Cliff
Carruthers will come in and break his riding-
whip across his knee and punch him in the
eye and tell him never to darken Miss Carr's
doors ever again or he will live to regret if
to his dying day. so help him God, and the
villain will hiss like a tiger-snake and go off
and foreclose on the old homestead but you
needn’t be upset because the hero will strike
oil or find a nugget or there’ll be a bumper
crop or Miss Carr’s rich uncle will die
leaving her a fortune or the illegitimate Mrs.
Crawley will turn nn and accuse Silas of
having drowned her first-born in the Yarra.
And so it turned out, or it turned out some-
thing like that, with Variations.
So we went home, and I said to the other
girl, if that’s what the country’s like, I can
understand why two-tlrrds of the Australian
people live in cities, and it’s the last time I
spend tny Christmas holidavs at Warbnrfon.
And I rans up the Dramatic Critic and told
him about if. and I said, is that what you
expected it would bn like? And he said, yes.
and I said, what did he mean by sending me?
And lie said lie had done it with the bes._
intentions because lie knew we had whoop-
ing-cough in our house and he thought I
would rather spend a night with the Aus-
tralian Drama than stay at home listening
to the kids whooping.
* * *
Sydney’s principal crater of music, the
Con. Hall, which had been more or less dor-
“Opening an umbrella indoors! It ain’t
done!”
mant for a couple of weeks, was stirred into
activity by the arrival of Fritz Hart, of
Melbourne, to whom the Con. Orchestra was
handed over. Under Mr. Hart’s baton, the
players gave a very smooth and even perform-
ance of Brahms’s Third Symphony. _ln
D’Ambrosio’s Violin Concerto in B minor
that experienced and resolute fiddler Cyril
Monk, who leads the orchestra, left the
guidance to his colleague Hoogstoel while he
attended to the solo part, which he played
rather better than it was worth. Hart’s own
composition, “Seeds of Love,” had an outing.
It'is a gracefully-scored series of variations
on an old English ballad. The orchestra,
the conductor and the audience appeared to
enjoy themselves best in the fiery Prelude
to the Third Act of “Lohengrin,” which
was given with lots of ginger.
* * #
Dagmar Roberts, a young pianist whom her
tutor and friends desire to send to Europe
and the maestros, gave a recital at Sydney
Con. Hall last week. She showed her paces
in the Bach Toccata and Fugue in D minor,
a group of Chopin numbers, including the
B minor Scherzo and the Ballade in A flat,
the best known of the Rachmaninoff pre-
ludes, and Liszt’s Variations on a Theme
of Paganini. Miss Robei’ts commands a full
resonant tone, and though she has evidently
been warned against it, occasionally falls
under the sway of the music she is playing
and lets herself go. In such moments she
shows great promise.
¥ * *
Vaudeville at Sydney St. James is far
better this week than it has been for a fort-
night or so. The old hands had worn thin,
and on Saturday nearly all of them were
wiped out to make places for Sid Beck and
a swarm of other newcomers. Mo stays. He
also is better than he has been lately. As
it stands the show is a bright means of kill-
ing a couple of hours.
* *
One day last week Melbourne Tivoli
started a precedent by appointing the audi-
ence as critics without portfolio to judge
a rehearsal of the next week’s show. The
experiment revealed the fact that from a
critical point of view the Melbourne theatre-
goers’ name is Mud. None of them even looked
like a critic. There was, in fact, no effort
at criticism at all—not even in the shape
of a ripe tomato or a bad egg, an audience’s
equivalent for the literary man’s adjective.
Some of the turns merited the severest criti-
cism. but adverse comment never goes farther
than silence in a Melbourne amusement
house. The affair lasted nearly four hours,
so, even after the dead wood is hewn away,
there should be a good evening’s entertain-
ment left, plus Hector St. Clair.
¥ * *
A French girl divorces her first husband,
declares herself a widow, selecting her
departed spouse from a list of war casualties,
marries again and, in the way they have in
light domestic comedy, comes to stay at the
same house as the dead soldier, whose death
has been exaggerated. For full measure the
“I voted for the lot.”
first husband turns up with the news that
the divorce was never made absolute. These
complications comprise some 'of the plot of
“Mixed Doubles,” being done moderately well
by the Australian Comedy Co. at Melbourne
Bijou. It will see Cup Week out. Elma
Gibbs is the vivacious French girl.
# * *
Backhaus, after immensely successful con-
certs at Adelaide Town Hall —one superior
critic wondered in the press whether he gave
a particularly popular encore item as “a
gesture of contempt”—embarked for Europe.
# *
The Bramley’s vaudeville venture in Bris-
bane is over. On Saturday the co. goes back
to a new play a week. The opener will be
“Give and Take.”


Get uour
»rt
PAIN'fS and
VARNISHES
from
AGENTS
EVERYWHERE.
THEY "KEEP ON KEEPING ON!
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard ot Quality throughout tho Empire .
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fu99
Detonators
Cartridges
THE VALUE OF SECURITY
is fully realised by most people when considering investments or selecting a Bank or Safe Deposit,
but its worth should also be considered when selecting their Executor by reason of the import-
ance of that office. Be assured of undoubted security by appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, AGENT, ETC.
Its Capital and Reserves total £1,120,000, in addition to which in terms of the Act of Parlia-
ment by which the Company was incorporated the sum of £20,000 is deposited with the New
South Wales Government as PERPETUAL SECURITY for the proper administration of funds
entrusted to its care.
TRUST FUNDS UNDER CONTROL EXCEED £39,023,000.
Call or write for explanatory Booklet.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Managing Director. H. Y. DOUGLASS, Manager.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILDCAL
COLUMN
South British Insurance Co.
Net. To Re- Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £>£,■£,
1920.. 237,618 14 p.c. = 70,000 167,618 948,593
Contingency reserve taken in . . 20,000 968,593
Unexplained additions to reserves, £85,531 1,054,124
Reserves capitalised, £250,000 .. 804,124
1921.. 225,115 13 p.c. = 79,167 145,948 950,072
Written off investments, £20,984 . . 929,088
1922.. 160,343 11 1-9 p.c.= 83,333 77,010 1,006,098
Premiums on shares .. .. 34,0 13 1,040,111
1923.. 176,688 llj p.c.= 90,268 86,420 1,126,631
1924.. 185,644 12J „ „ 98,865 86,779 1,213,310
1925.. 206,597 13.9 „ ~107,463 99,134 1,312,444
1926.. 232,030 14.4 „ ~111.761 120.269 1,432,713
1927.. 237,035 15 „ ~116,060 120,975 1,553,688
Unexplained additions to reserves, £57,910 1,611,598
Reserves capitalised, £257,910 . . 1,353,688
1928. 214,333 12.1 p.e.=124,657 89,676 1,443,364
1929.. 233,831 12.9 „ ~133,253 100,578 1,543,942
Written off premises, £20,000 . . . . 1,523,942
1930.. 211,037 13.3 p.c.=137,552 73,485 1,597,427
At the end of 40 years of trading, in 1912,.
this very successful Auckland-controlled fire
and marine office, with world-wide connec-
tions, had accumulated £603,295 of reserves
to support and assist £lOO,OOO of paid capital.
Since then the co.’s history has been a
gilded one; no less than £907,910 has been
transferred from the heap of surplus earn-
ings to capital account, raising it to
£1,031,640, its present figure. Nevertheless
the growth in reserves has outstripped the
growth in capital, visible accumulations
having mounted to £1,597,427 at Aug. 31.
Moreover, during the last dozen years the
income from investments has annually ex-
ceeded the dividend charge, leaving the entire
underwriting surpluses, and a bit more, to
fatten investments and the returns there-
from. Last year £140,870, or £6524 more
than for tlie previous term, was gathered in
interest, rents, etc. That was £3318 more
than w 7 as required to give shareholders an
extra Id., making 2s. Bd. per share. Thus
the investment side of the business has
become a sheet anchor to the possibilities of
the scrip.
Underwriting, of course, is the co.’s main
business, and the chief factor in its develop-
ment. These compare as follows: —
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. penses. Rate. Rate.
1895.. £209,239 £136,160 £50,229 65.0 p.c. 24.0 p.c.
1905.. 297,822 180,009 82,366 60.4,, 27.7 „
1915.. 553,297 287,117 159,063 51.8 „ 28.7 „
1920.. 792,664 369,194 256,543 46.4,, 32.3 „
1923.. 866,387 491,940 294,178 56.8 ~ 33.9 „
1924.. 879,799 489,668 308,362 55.6,, 35.0 „
1925.. 905,917 496,709 313,382 54.8 „ 34.6 „
1926.. 939,533 521,003 318,358 55.4 „ 33.9 „
1927.-1,046,753 617,562 311,806 59.0 ~ 29.8 „
1928.. 1,038,048 628,559 322,513 60.5 „ 31.1 „
1929. . 1,051,842 641,483 318,072 61.0 „ 30.2 „
1930. . 991,647 617,069 304,357 62.2 „ 30.6 „
Marine risks, from which fat profits were
w 7 on during the w ; ar years, have not been
satisfactory for the past decade. Meanwhile
the employers’-liability section, a run of bad
years with American fire risks, the recent
rapid growth of accident business, due to
motor-car insurance, and heavy fire losses in
Maoriland have brought about fluctuating
results. Last year’s drop of £60,195. in net
premiums w 7 as due largely to the fall in com-
modity and other prices, and reduction of
stocks by merchants; disturbed conditions
in India and China are having their effect,
too, and over-insurance is causing under-
writers much concern. The year’s loss rate
(62.2 p.c.) is the heaviest the co. has experi-
enced since the end of last century, and little
relief need be looked for until conditions
become more settled. The underwriting sur-
plus (£70,221, which was £22,066 lighter
than the previous year’s) was the poorest
for a long time, and alone only 6.8 p.c. on
capital.
But policy-holders have no cause to stay
awake o’ nights. At the close of last accounts
they could see net tangible assets w r ith a book
value of £2,629,067, or 265 p.c. of the year’s
net premiums, and that was 115 p.c. more
than is usually reckoned to be just enough.
Funds are in this form: —
1929. p.c. 1930. p.c.
Premises .. .. £518,292 16.8 £533,920 17.0
Mortgages .. .. 43,870 1.4 49,879 1.6
Deposits and cash . . 405,654 13.2 322,023 10.2
Stocks, debentures, etc. 428,651 13.9 494,202 15.7
Municipal debentures, etc. 402,799 13.1 439,522 14.0
Government securities. 1,217,140 39.5 1,219,724 38.8
Book debts .. .. 66,161 2.1 83,846 2.7
Fixed interest bearing securities form a
large proportion of the assets. The chairman
gives his assurance that, at current prices,
the depreciation in the co.’s Australian in-
vestments has been more than offset by appre-
ciation of its securities in Maoriland and
elsewhere. During the year £20,000 was
visibly struck off the book value of prem-
ises, leaving the net increase in that item at
£15,628.
The market, which sees no real cloud in
the co.’s sky, heavily discounts the future
by paying 60s. or thereabouts for the pound
shares as against 655. 6d. a year ago. The
return at the lower figure is 4.4 p.c. on a
13.3 p.c. div. basis. The backing is 50s. lid.
in net tangibles.
Australian Knitting Mills, Ltd.
Dividends. To Re-
June, Profits. (Prefs. and Ords.) serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 33,999 15 p.c. = 25,312 8.687 37,083
Co. reconstructed: £90,000 of
bonus shares issued (one in three).
Accounts for 1921 not available.
1922.. 57,513 124 p.c. = 41,203 16,310 6,421
1923.. 71,096 124 „ ~46.500 24,596 31.017
1924.. 75.207 10 „ „ 41.625 33,582 64,599
1925.. 39.838 8 „ „ 36,750 3,088 67,687
1926.. 64.981 10 „ „ 50,000 14,981 82.668
1927.. 79,813 11 „ ~ 55,000 24,813 107,481
1928.. 71,600 10 „ ~ 50,000 21,600 129,081
1929.. 67,806 10 „ „ 50,000 17,806 146,887
1930.. 51,980 8 ~ ~40,000 11,980 158,867
A.K.M. is chief of a successful and enter-
prising group of Australian textile cos. The
foundations of the co.’s present success were
laid in 1918, when shortage of yarns made
the establishment of a local spinning mill
possible, and the Yarra Falls subsidiary was
formed to make tops and yarns.
From then onwards, until the present
financial crisis altered trading conditions,
A.Iv.M. never really looked back. Paid capi-
tal grew from £BO,OOO in 1918 to £500,000 in
1924. Since the close of last accounts it has
increased to £550,000 by Yarra Falls taking
up 50,000 new shares for cash. Capital of
Yarra Falls is £900,000, making the total for
the two principal cos. £1,450,000, though
£368,500 of that represents inter-company
holdings. A cotton-spinning and -weaving
member was added to the group in 1927,
when Austral Silk and Cotton Mills was
formed. Then, early in 1929, Rayon Pty.
Ltd., was floated to manufacture artificial silk
underwear. Julius Kayser and Co., of New
York, were interested in this offspring. Later
in the year Ivaysers handed their own Aus-
tralian business over to Julius Kayser
(Aust.) Pty., Ltd., a subsidiary formed by
the American concern, A.K.M., Yarra Falls
and Marks and Saulwick to manufacture
Kayser hosiery in Australia.
The A.K.M.-Yarra Falls group now has
ramifications extending into practically every
line of the textile business. A.K.M. manu-
factures underwear, bathing-suits, etc.;
Yarra Falls turns out woollen yarns, wor-
steds, serges, etc.; Austral Silk and Cotton
makes cotton yarns and fabrics, while the
two latest offspring cover the silk hosiery
and underwear field.
In A.K.M.’s last term gross profit, divi-
dends, etc. (now grouped), were £23,323
lower at £67,873. Exes. (£15,893) were
reduced £7497; thus net profit dropped
£15,826, the final figure being 10.3 p.c. on
the half-million of paid capital compared
with 13.5, 14.3, 15.9 and 12.9 p.c. back to
1926. Yarra Falls paid 8 p.c. for the year
to June 30. A.K.M.’s distribution was also
reduced to 8 p.c., thus leaving £11,980 for
reserves.
The co. is endeavoring to cut costs and
develop new lines. Plant is reported to be in
first-class order and of ample capacity.
Hitherto the depreciation reserve has been
shown amongst the liabilities; last year,
after £16,724 had been appropriated from
manufacturing account, the total (£104,887)
was transferred to the other side of the sheet
and £26,339 written off freeholds, and the
balance (£78,548) off plant.
1917. 1924. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital .. £60,000 £450,000 £500,000 £500,000
Liabilities .. 3,845 52,789 55,045 154,713
Property, plant 28,893 143,733 293,897 204,799
Stocks . . 23,170 87,768 143,697 150,031
Book debts . . 12,347 32,954 63,942 77,209
Cash, etc. . . 24,818 47,561 5,362 269
Associated ) Shares Nil 293,020 318,696 344,176
cos. (Ad’ces , 52,096
Though something was struck off the book
value of stocks to provide for contingencies,
stocks were £6334 higher than at the previous
balance. That was because the co. was hand-
ling more seasonable lines than usual, made
against orders for forward delivery. Sundry
debtors were £13,267 heavier, and £52,096
had been temporarily advanced to Julius
Kayser (Aust.). Shares in other cos. are
mainly represented by 318,500 fully-paids in
Yarra Falls, 25,480 fully-paids in Austral
Silk and Cotton Mills, and 40.000 contribs.
in the Kayser co. The more or less liquid
surplus (£157,956, including stocks and
advances) was £33,064 lower than at the
previous balance. The position has been
relieved since the close of accounts by the
cash subscription of Yarra Falls.
Local textile concerns generally are pro-
ducing at much below 7 capacity, and retailers
are buying from hand to mouth, thus com-
pelling manufacturers to carry the risk of
substantial stocks. Nevertheless A.K.M.
appears to have the position well in hand,
and the enterprise and foresight of the
management have placed the co. in a splen-
did position to make, further progress imme-
diately opportunity offers. The future, how-
ever, is full of uncertainty. .
Tbe ords. are backed by 265. 6d. in net
tangibles. The market prices them at 18s.,
at which figures the return is 8.9 p.c.
United Provisions, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Profits. , Dividends serves, serves.
£ Pref. Ord. £ £ £
1928. .123,466 8 p.c. 8 p.c. = 100,854 22,612 628
1929. .112,094 8 „ 8 „ „ 112,000 94 722
1930. .102,964 8 „ 7 „ „ 102,500 . 464 1186
This is the holding co. which amalgamated
the well-established ham, bacon and food-
canning businesses of J. C. Hutton and
Foggitt Jones in 1927. Between them the
two latter cos. operate nine factories scat-
tered over the Australian States, and there
is a subsidiary in Maoriland as well. The
£716,700 of scrip in the two operating con-
cerns was bought, partly for shares and
partly for cash, on a net tangible basis, after
revaluation of the assets ; the revaluation
disclosed a compined surplus of £655.152.
Paid capital in the holding co. is £1,400,000
in 450,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and 950,000
ords. The public was offered 325,000 prefs.
and snapped them up.
Conditions continued favorable during the
year following the merger, and, after £20,000
had been set aside for contingencies, the com-
bined net earnings of the two operating cos.
were £7342 better than their combined aver-
age net profits for the three preceding years.
Here are the combined trading figures since
the merger:—
IQ9S IQ9G 109 0
Gross profit .. .. £465,342 £447,158 £434.424
Exes 326,957 328,295 321,770
Net profit .. .. £138,385 £118,863 £112,654
Divs 127,335 112,600 103,500
The creditable performance in 1928 gave
rise to the hope that the ords. might get
something better than 8 p.c. in the near
future. Turnover further expanded during
the following term, but competition sharp-
ened, prices were cut and margins narrowed.
Last year the business appears to have held
particularly well, despite the generally ad-
verse conditions, which became more pro-
nounced towmrd the close of accounts. Gross
profits slipped £12,734; but a cut in exes,
reduced the net shrinkage to £6209. making
the drop over the last two years £25,731.
The amount passed to the United co. in
divs. (£103,500) was £9lOO less than in the
previous year. It was only £464 more than
was required to pay a handful of exes.
(£536), meet the pref. div. (£36,000) and
hand the ords. a total of 7 p.c. for the year—
a couple of points were snipped off the final
distribution, reducing it to 6 p.c. p.a. Com-
bining the figures of the holding co. and the
two subsidiaries, the year’s net profit was
£112,118. Allowing for the holding co.’s
pref. requirements, the balance was a wink
over 8 p.c. on its ord. capital compared
with 8.6 p.c. and 10.3 p.c. for the two pre-
ceding years.
The financial position continues to improve :
Operating Cos.’ Combined Figures.
1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital .. .. £716,700 £716,700 £716,700
Overdraft . • . . 98,239 150,378 153,084
Creditors .. . . 171,705 202,470 172,854
Premises, plant, etc. . . 514,996 513,199 593,342
Stock 344,954 377,967 362,550
Debtors . . . . . . 366,310 386,130 388,869
Shares in other cos. . . 94,506 95,162 90,179
Cash, etc. .. . . 4,936 5,142 6,162
The addition of £2739 to debtor’s balances,
and a reduction of £15,417 in the book value of
stocks and of £29,616 in the amount coming
to trade creditors are movements in the
right direction. The more or less liquid sur-
plus (£431,643, including stocks! was
£15,252 stronger than at the close of accounts
in 1929. The growth of £80,143 in the
premises and plant item is due to the trans-
fer of the depreciation reserve (£92,871 at
Sept. 30) to the other side of the sheet.
The fiscal position, the possibilities of in-
flation, the public’s care at the moment for
the fewer pence in its pocket, continued
growth in unemployment, increase in taxa-
tion and the stubborn nature of costs all make
the future very uncertain. On the market
the ords., which were priced at 245. 6d. 12
months ago, are now around 17s. 6d. The
return at that figure is 6.8 p.c. on a 6 p.c.
div. basis. Excluding the depreciation
reserve, the net tangible backing is 11s.,
and for the prefs. 435. 4d. The prefs., which
have priority as to capital, are on offer at par.
The Permanent Trustee Co. (Sydney).
Added to Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1920.. 8,437 6 p.c. = 5,800 2637 2.930
1921.. 9,528 6 „ „ 6,600 2928 0,858
1922 14,104 9 „ „ 9,900 4204 10,062
ms: 12 512 7*;; : 8,250 u,m
1924.. 14,025 74 „ „ 8,250 5775 20,099
1925.. 14,558 8 „ „ 8,800 5758 25,80<
1926.. 15,572 9 „ „ 9,060 5672 31,529
1927.. 16,333 9 „, „ 9,900 6433 37,962
1928.. 13,686 9 „ „ 9,900' 3786 41,748
1929.. 15,541 10 „ „ 11,000 4541 46,289
1930.. 15,441 10 „ „ 11,000 4441 00,730
Complications arising from taxation _ and
other legislation and the difficulties associated
with the administration of assets in these
uncertain times are driving more and more
business into the hands of the trustee cos.
Over the last eight years this one has
approximately doubled the volume of trusts
on its books; the spring last year was
£1,611,039, a record :
Exes. p.c.
Gross of Gross
Trust Funds. Earnings. Exes. Earnings.
1910.. £3,029,970 £11,743 £4,930 42.0 p.c.
1920.. 6,349,568 24,948 15,689 62.9 „
1924.. 8,955,624 39,584 24,921 63.0 „
1925.. 9.895,117 42,950 27,771 64.7 ~
1926.. 10,850,424 47,654 31,462 66.0 „
1927.. 11,712,983 51.168 34,235 66.9 „
1928.. 12,873,589 52,374 38,088 72.5 „
1929.. 14,364,553 59,104 42,963 72.7 „
1930.. 15,975,572 61,899 45,858 74.0 „
Gross earnings improved £2795; but exes,
took all the increase and £lOO besides. Still,
the net result was 14 p.c. on paid capital
compared with <14.1, 12.4, 14.5, 14.1 and
13.2 p.c. back to 1925, so the extra 1 p.c.
sent out with the final div. in 1929 was
repeated with comfort. However, the fall
in values of real and other property and
reduced incomes from estates, especially those
consisting largely of pastoral interests, can
be expected to affect the corpus, agency and
other commission earnings as well as returns
from the co.’s own funds.
Nevertheless, apart from the possibilities
of Government interference, the future of
these cos. looks as assured as any future
can look under existing conditions. Apart
from the small chance the co. takes when it
invests its own funds, it really does not risk
much. It may, of course, make mistakes,
but when the management is in doubt about
the meaning of a will, there is always the
Court to go to for instructions.
Balance-sheet figures compare as follows:
IQ9O 1926 1999 1930
Capital . . £109,945 £llO,OOO £llO,OOO £llO,OOO
Liabilities . . 933 4,114 7,400 7,584
Treasury deposit 20,000 20,000 20,000 20,000
Mortgages, etc. 26,804 46,144 84,316 86,762
Premises . . 66,271 62,741 60,921 60,321
Sundry debtors 858 393 67 53
Cash . . . . 3,996 23,585 6,686 9,478
Mortgage and Government securities are
lumped in one entry in the sheet; together
they amounted to 53.9 p.c. of shareholders’
funds at Sept. 30 as against 23.7 p.c. 10 years
earlier. The book value of premises is
being steadily written down.
The £5 shares paid to 11s. are priced at
16s. 7d. on the market as against 225. 3d.
a year ago. The return at the lower figure is
6.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. Each varia
tion of 1 p.c. in the div. would affect the
return by .4 p.c. The backing amounts to
365. Id. in net tangibles.
Equitable Life Co. of Australasia.
This co. was registered in Brisbane in
1922, and four years later altered its name-
plate by substituting “Australasia” for
“Queensland.” The promoter was Frederick
Levy, who used to be the A.P.A.’s inspector
in Queensland. He became managing director
and took 15,000 fully-paid 10s. shares: —
Ordinary Department.
Ex- Excess Out-
Income. Claims, penses. goings. Deficit.
June, £ £ £ £ £
1923.. 11,543 128 16,611 5196 30,426
Added establishment account, £1575.. 32,001
1924.. 19,508 331 19,528 351 32,352
Intangibles reduced, £145 .. .. 32,207
Surplus.
1925.. 24,778 1552 20,566 2660 29,547
1926.. 30,396 2906 24,890 2600 26,947
1927.. 35,486 4824 26,848 3814 23,133
Added establishment account, £2132 .. 25,265
1928.. 42,574 5232 31,591 5751 19,514
Added establishment account, £3997 .. 23,511
1929.. 46,884 6022 30,479 10,383 13^28
Added establishment account, £482 .. 13,610
Funds.*
1930.. 48,625 5438 29,351 13,836 226
*Net funds apart from capital.
The co. set out to specialise in probate in-
surance, a form of policy-writing in which
a high percentage of renewals and early
policy maturities can be expected. Also
probate premiums are usually a bit finer than
the rates on other classes of policies. It all
means that the business has to be written
at low cost before the co. can advance
beyond the stage of mere solvency and
develop bonus- and dividend-earning capacity.
Income overtook outgoings in 1925, and
has lengthened its lead each year since. That
is disregarding expenditure capitalised, of
course. The ratio of exes, to net premiums
has stepped down from 107.4 p.c. in 1924 to
69.4 p.c. in 1929 and to 64.8 p.c. last year.
But since the office reserves only 23 p.c. of
the annual premium income for future ex-
penses and profits, those ratios obviously
need to be brought down a long way yet
before anything in the shape of divisible sur-
plus is likely to show up.
During the seven years to the close of
accounts in 1929 £2,510.070 of business was
put on the books, and 57 p.c. of it remained
in force. Claims accounted for most of the
remaining 43 p.c.; renewals have never
fallen below 80 p.c. Last year's adverse
(Continued on next page.)


Watch Your
Step 1
•
These are days when a man
may lose the savings of a life-
time.
These are days when a man
may lay the foundations of a
fortune.
The thing is to know. “The
‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” has im-
mense data at its disposal and
a staff of specially trained in-
vestigators and accountants.
It will help you to save losses
and make gains.
NOVEMBER NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 21- ;
PER ANNUM. 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bolletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colmson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. —Advt.
* # =S *
Each year sees a growing total of important con-
tracts that specify Pioneer Wood Pipe for water-
supply schemes. Experience has proved the absolute
reliability of this excellent, durable conduit —its
ability to give long, trouble-free economical service.
A considerable saving in first cost is another factor
that has helped to put Pioneer Wood Pipe in the
forefront of popularity with experienced engineers.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road
(near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at
Footscrav, Victoria. —-Advt.
# * * *
BisMUTir. —We are buyers of Bismuth Concentrates
in any quantity. Write, giving particular's of
quantity available, and send samples to Elliott
Brothers, Limited, Box 494 AA, G.P.0., Sydney.
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Morce. —Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES —AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.—Advt.
INVESTIGATE-INVEST.
There may be a few who get rich quickly and easily, but they are a mere
handful compared with the vast army that gets poor quickly in the vain
effort to emulate them. The small investor is the one most tempted to dabble
in apparently “get-rich-quick” investment offers, and he is the one hardest
hit when they do not “come off,” as indeed they rarely do.
The sagacious citizen will turn his money over to a Bank, which is
wisely restricted in the channels wherein it may invest, to do the investing
for him.
Investigate first, and you will find that the Savings Account provides
the safest and most convenient form of investment, and pays a reasonable
interest return, which in the long run is the safest and best kind.
There is a Post Office Agency in every town.
fcicnwcaftl) Savings JM of Huslralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act. 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq. s
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., O.M.G.
General Manager — M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Banic offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Offices Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.,
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
conditions are reflected in a drop of £100,839
in the amount of new business written: —
1923. 1929. 1930.
Proposals accepted .. 1,076 1,150 891
Sum assured .. .. £302,588 £370,818 £269,979
First premiums .. 10,040 11,305 7,914
Renewals . . . . 76 32,557 37,333
Interest, rent, etc. . . 1,427 3,022 3,378
Total income . . . . 11,543 46,884 48,625
Assuming that new business is 10 times more
expensive than old, last year’s first premiums
cost 252 p.c. compared with 209, 214, 219
and 225 p.c. for the four preceding years.
The figures are very much higher than they
ought to be. The field staff has been reor-
ganised, so apparently it is other outlets
that are calling for overhaul. Three years’
premiums will have to be received on last
year’s new policies before anything worth
mentioning can be put by to meet the inevit-
able day when the policies become claims. It
is a very severe handicap in the struggle
to earn profits.
A reversionary bonus of £2 per cent, on
wliole-of-life and 30s. per cent, on endowment
assurances was declared in the previous
term; but when these bonuses vest in policy-
holders was not stated. It is pretty certain,
however, that they were not earned, so the
amount involved is really a gift from share-
holders to policy-holders out of capital, tem-
porarily at any rate. Assuming that the life
fund at June 30 (£64,334) equalled the
amount of liabilities under policies, the year s
operations resulted in a loss of £320. That
and another £482 were added to the intan-
gibles, raising them to £64,107.
The protection for policy-holders is in
this form: — 1
1923. 1929. 1930.
Government securities.. £21,199 £37,780 £38,768
Mortgages . . • • 6,894 10,613
Loans on policies . . - 1,883 3,084
Book debts . . . . 1,611 13,429 17,356
Cash 2,075 8,112 7,148
Equipment, etc.. . .. 5,924 6,185 5,685
Premises . . . . 55,864 55,864
Total tangible assets .. £30,809 £130,147 £138,518
Sundry creditors . . 969 50,372 42,481
Net tangible assets . . £29,840 £79,775 £96,037
At June 30 net tangibles exceeded the life
fund by £31,703. During the year £6OOO
was knocked off the mortgage, reducing it to
£38,000. Also an extra £3786 of capital
was gathered, making £95,083 in 326,262
part-paid 10s. shares. Shareholders could
sec 6s. Bd. of every £1 they had put up still
intact.
North Broken Hill, Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 297,668 30p.c.= 180,000 117,668 690,643
1920.. 42 > 6 26 (. 25,728 716,371
Written off, £16,898 J ’
1921.. 21,430 Nil | 8,130 724,501
Written off, £13,300 )
1922.. 53,504 Nil 53.504 778,005
1923.. 304,980 30 p.c. - 180,000 124,980 902,985
1924.. 736,066 40 „„ 340,000 396.066 1,299.051
1925.. 939,262 75 „„ 525,000 414,262 1,713,313
1926.. 782.106 95 „ „ 665,000 ) lnft p ,« , 81 o s 2«
Written off £16,493 ( 100 ’ 613 1.813,926
1927.. 529,038 75 p.c. = 525,000 4,038 1,817,964
1928.. 369,882 40 „„ 280,000 89,882 1,907,846
1929.. 528,646 42-J „ „ 297,500 231,146 2,138,992
1930.. 275,663 50 ~ „ 350,000 2,064,655
Last year’s profit is made up of £147,052
from investments, mainly in inter-allied metal
undertakings, and £128,611 from mining
operations. That is including £15,000 re-
served for depreciation as against £50,000 the
year before, when the net return from mining
was £386,287. The collapse of lead and
silver prices was responsible for the sharp
contraction in the latest figures. That the
drop was not more pronounced is due to the
sale of zinc concentrates to the British
Government at contract rates. But the con-
tract ran out the day the accounts closed;
that, and the exceptionally low level to which
metal prices have sagged, have completely
changed the outlook for the Barrier cos.
Consider these figures : —■
( Average Prices —
12 5 12
Months, Years, Months, Price,
Dec., June, June, Oct. 30,
1913. 1929. 1930. 1930.
Lead .. £lB/6/2 £2B/8/- £2O/19/6 £l5/15/-
Spelter .. 22/14/3 30/17/1 20/15/5 14/15/-
Silver . . 2/3.5 2/6.9 1/10.9' 1/4.5
Zinc has dropped 35 p.c. below its pre-war
price, and is now a drug in the market.
So, although it is hauled to the surface in
association with lead and silver* in the crude
ore, production of the concentrate has ceased,
and the metal is allowed to remain in the
tailings sent underground to fill the worked
spaces. Lead and silver prices are now
approximately 14 p.c. and 40 p.c. respectively
below pre-war levels, while costs are over
50 p.c. higher, notwithstanding big improve-
ments in mining methods and recoveries
meanwhile. Thus the poorer-grade mines,
including the British, which the North bought
in 1923, have had to close down. Also_ no
ore has been hauled from the Junction,
bought from Sulphide Corp. in Oct. last. And
even with the substantial premium from
the ruling rates of exchange, it is doubtful
whether the North itself, which has never
looked better from a mining and treatment
point of view, can show any profit on its
high-grade ore under existing conditions.
Demand has slackened, and stocks of lead
concentrates are accumulating.
The quantity, of crudes raised and the cost
of mining and treating them is seen in the
next comparison:—
1927. 1929. 1930.
Crudes raised, tons.. 441,200 422,423 450,157
Mining .. .. 235. 7.9 d. 245. S.4d. 245. S.2d.
Development . . . . Is. B.od. 2s. 2.0 d. 2s. 2.7 d.
Milling .. .. 13s. O.Od. 10s. B.Bd. 10s. 9.3 d.
Total 38s. 3.9 d. 375. 7.2 d. 375. 8.2 d.
The sources from which last year’s ore came,
and its assay values were as follows: —
Tons ( Assay Value
Crudes. Lead. Silver. Zinc.
North mine . . 293,706 15.5 p.c. 9.30 z. 11.8 p.c.
British mine .. 158,589 11.8 ~ 6.7 „ 8.6 „
Further improvement in treatment methods
has resulted in a recovery of 94.2 p.c. of
the lead content of the ores as against 90.3
p.c. two years ago ; costs should benefit.
Ore reserves measured up aggregate
4,200,000 tons, of which 3,200,000 are in the
North mine, 800,000 British and 200,000
Junction.
Financially the co. is very well equipped
to weather a rough passage:—
1924. 1929. 1930.
Debentures .. .. £92,400 £20,900 £9,600
Sundry creditors . . 121,094 66,044 138,641
Taxes and royalty .. 121,673 81,749 18,943
Mine and plant .. 850,981 1,059,776 1,113,974
Stocks .. .'. .. 550,785 478,118 422,985
Stores 87,854 87,905 88,838
Investments . . .. 440,445 528,970 832,007
Book debts . . . . 40,980 6,854 11,321
Cash, Government securi-
ties, etc 363,173 846,061 462,714
The year’s addition of £54,19S to the mine
and plant item reflects the Junction pur-
chase. To finance this deal, add £303,037
to the book value of shares, etc., in other
cos. and pay the div. the board drew upon
Government securities, etc., for £383,347.
Leaving the mine and plant out of account,
there was a shrinkage of £128,536 in the
book value of net tangibles (£1,650,680, equal
to 475. 2d. per share).
Failing a substantial recovery in metal
prices, of which there are no indications at
present, prospects for the Barrier cos. will
depend very largely upon the outcome of the
pending conference between the cos. and the
unions concerning working conditions, etc.
The North’s pound shares, which fetched
over £6 a year ago, recently fell to 275.,
but have since recovered to 375. At this
last figure the market capitalises the under-
taking at £1,295,000, thus entirely disre-
garding the mine and plant and discounting
the book value of other assets by £355,000-
odd.
Geologist Roland Blanchard, who is mak-
ing a survey of the big 12-by-20-mile dome-
like a structure at Lawn Hills (N.Q.) for
Mining Trust, Ltd., says that the sandstone,
greenstone and shale there correspond closely
with the quartzitic schists, greenstone, shale
and slate of Mt. Isa. On present evidence
he considers the horizon about 250 ft. below
the greenstone at Lawn Hills corresponds
with the centre of the Black Star horizon at
Isa. Veins of high-grade lead ore, assaying
up to 25 p.c. lead, have been encountered,
but they are not large enough to be of com-
mercial importance. The most important
mineralisation promises to occur either in the
Zinc Hills, which are complexly faulted, or
surrounding alluvial valleys. In this area
rich lead ores have been obtained from the
Silver King, Silver Queen, Watson’s and
other leases. Complete information about
this central portion of the field is expected
to be available by the end of this year.
* * :1c *
The Queensland Government has decided
to grant concessions, including relief from
labor conditions, etc., over some 7000 acres at
Cardross in the Chillagoe country to A.
MacDonald. Of recent years he has been
associated with the film industry here, and
is a mining expert of experience overseas.
Over £250,000 has been spent on this area
in the past, and it is hoped that, with the
encouragement given, new capital may be
raised to further develop it. Under the
terms of the concession those interested have
undertaken to spend a minimum of £lO,OOO
a year for the first two years on develop-
ment, and not less than £4OOO annually for
the three years following. If minerals are
found in payable quantities the concession-
naires will be required to take up mineral
leases and conform to ordinary conditions.
The usual provisions for forfeiture in ease of
non-compliance are included.
* * ♦ $
“Melilla” : The Great Northern, Herberton
(N.Q.),-has had to go down the deep winze
and prospect and open up there. Results,
thus far, don’t spell dividends. Investors
are wondering why work was not begun
there long ago, instead of waiting till all
ore overhead was gouged out. The co. is
now on the hunt for further payable ore-
shoots.
# * * *
Guinea Gold, the first of N.G. cos. to tackle
its job in workmanlike fashion and which
later disposed of its interests to N. G. Gold-
fields and Placer Development, has been
looking for new areas. The expedition
which was to have been led by field-manager
Levien has not yet been undertaken; mean-
while an option has been secured over a
gold-dredging area in North Queensland,
which is now being inspected by O. Moen,
formerly G.G.’s superintending engineer in
New Guinea. Returns from investments,
etc., for the half-year to Oct. 31, are said to
have exceeded all outgoings.
* * * *
The South Coast of N.S.W. is among the
old mining areas being rooted over again by
prospectors, and a promising find is reported
from Yalwal, near Nowra. The reef, claimed
to be a new one, has been driven on for
36ft. and has disclosed a width of 10ft. If
values are O.K. when another 50ft has been
driven, sinking will be commenced. Nominal
capital of the working co., South Coast
(Yalwal) Gold Reefs, Ltd., is £20,000 in
400,000 shares of Is. each. The vendors
take 45,000 paids, 200,000 are to be offered,
and the balance is in pickle.
* * . * *
When the crude-oil engines move the
wheels at Wiluna (W.A.), expenditure on
mine development, treatment plant, railway
and works at Geraldton, etc., will have ex-
ceeded £2,000,000.
* * * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Is money on fixed deposit absolutely
safe in trading and Commonwealth banksl
(2) Could the Lang or Federal Government
touch it, or bring pressure on banks and
so cause a crashf (3) Could State or Fed.
Governments force an increase in the note
issue? —9o36.
(1) Nothing is absolutely safe; but the
risk is very small. The banks have been
managed with prudence during the period of
inflation ; that, indeed, is why stones are now
flung at them. (2) No doubt Governments
could legislate to the great disadvantage of
the banks. But there is always this to
restrain Labor Governments: they could not
well cause a crash in trading banks without
producing it also in savings banks ; and the
savings of their own supporters are there.
(3) The Federal Government could; but it
would be a rather slow process. The direc-
tors of the Commonwealth Bank (Note
Issue Department) control the note issue,
under statute; it could not be removed from
their control without the sanction of the
Senate.
(1) Was £20,000,000 held by banks in
Australia on behalf of the Federal Govern-
ment at the time Mr. Scullin left for Eng-
land? (2) Assuming its existence, was it
immediately available to Mr. Scullin in
settling our debts abroad? —99ll.
You can’t bay overseas debts with anything
but gold ;• and, apart from the gold held by
the Commonwealth Batik against the note
issue, there wasn.’t 20 millions of gold alto-
gether in Australian banks when Scullin
left for England. ,In fact, there was only
just over six millions. . The total coin and
bullion in Australian banks in the June
quarter of this year was: Ordinary banks,
£4,721,913 ; Commonwealth Bank, £1,376,850.
Financial position of Ratrut Basin? Is
a reconstruction likely? Outlook? —9788.
At Dec. 31 paid capital was £280,000.
Including a first-mortgage debenture of
£70,000 carrying interest at 20 p.c. p.a., out-
side liabilities totalled £79,744. Stocks and
cash, £21,095; fixed assets, £319,263, of
which £164,856 was the value placed on con-
cessions. Repayment of the debenture is
spread over the next five years. Last year
the co. registered a loss of £5232 on 530 tons
of tin ore, won , from 1.261 b. ground, with
costs at IOJd. a yard. Tin averaged £203
18s.; it is now at £llB 16s. There are
4,000,000 c.y. of 28oz. and 17,175,000 c.y. of
14oz. ground, but under existing conditions
the co. is unable to handle it at a profit.
At the moment the outlook is full of pitch.
Cannot say as regards reconstruction.
Prospects of Widdin-Baerami Shale-
oil Co.? Has the Australian visit of Mr.
Crosier, of the Crosier Retort Co., anything
to do with it; if so, what was the result?
—9804.
The Widdin-Baerami Co. was formed to
test a new process which has a small experi-
mental and demonstration plant at North
Sydney. The tests are said to be very satis-
factory : as a matter of fact, great progress
has been made in retorting of recent years,
and there are many new successful processes.
The Crozier process is in operation on a
small scale at Latrobe (Tas.), and, as far as
we know, Mr. Crozier’s visit is exclusively
concerned with it. The Widdin-Baerami Co.
has .secured a large area of shale-bearing
country about 60 miles north of Wolgan-
Newnes, and approached from Sandy
Hollow, on the Muswellbrook-Merriwa line;
surface surveys show large bodies of shale,
and there are no engineering difficulties
about a connecting railway line. Cost of
this and installation of plant would, how-
ever, be heavy. It lias been suggested that
the Broken Ilill cos. should come to this
district, and that the oil cos. should also
join in, using the Widdin-Baerami Co.’s retort-
ing process. But nothing has yet been
finalised; nor apparently has it been proved
that the shale beds retain their thickness
as they go deeper into the mountains among
which they occur. The mineral where tested
is exceedingly rich.
Position of the Briseis Tin Co. {Tas. ) f
—0214.
The mine was damaged to the extent of
£62,000 in the flood of April, 1930. Funds
were low, and as re-opening was estimated
to cost £65,000, an attempt was made to
reconstruct, the Government agreeing to
advance £25,000 conditionally on sharehold-
ers putting up £50,000. This support was not
forthcoming, and the co. was put into volun-
tary liquidation about May last.
' BRIEF ANSWERS.
Venture: (1) Risky until management has
proved itself. (2) Play for safety, and leave it
where it is... .G.J.C.: Yes, especially as to No. 2.
Of course they may dip lower; but that is un-
certain. .. .W.J.8.: You can do better, assuming you
are a good risk. .. .H.L.H.: Leave it a10ne....
K.M.T.: (1) Outside what you may get from the
co., nothing. (2) See Questions Answered.. . .R.A.C.:
A gamble, with the chances getting no better. .. .
8.C.: Wait till the clouds clear W.8.H.: Dan-
gerous ... .R.D. : The co.’s go-getters might sell them
for you; there is no regular market... .Nervy: Posi-
tion at present too obscure; wait awhile. .. .C.E.M.:
It certainly won’t do it out of the profits of
forestry... .A.M.R.: No good reason for selling....
■J.W.H.: (1) The. same utter gamble that it ever
was. (2) Well handled now, and likely some day to
give good profits. But you may have to wait....
K. 8.: (1) Hopeless at present. (2) No. (3) Your
liability depends entirely on the form of your
authority... .J. 8.; (1) Don’t know it. (2) No.
(3) But how did you apply for shares if you didn’t
sign anything? And what does your receipt say?
....New Guinea: Can’t trace it. Registrar of Joint
Stock CoS., Brisbane, may know what became of it.
. ...E.8.: Queensland Geological Survey Publication
No. 198, by L. C. Ball (1905), on “Gold, Platinum,
Tinstone and Monazite in the Beach Sands on the
South Coast, Queensland,’’ contains the information
required. It is out of print, but ask Queensland
Mines Department to lend you a copy.


mmm
wrnm
? »
Wit
mm
m
m
m
m
m
H 4
?
mm-
I
m
m
■
i\
*3S
*** v 5 1 "
IPs
v>~ - *s*<
m
*msr^rSSf‘ i m
s£*? »JTisrl.s
*» # *
«,< ■ j®
:%M
''J%l ?>V
From the rim of the Grand Canyon you will look nearly 6,000 feet into the
earth. Good motor roads enable you to view the canyon from scenic points.
A mile deep, 13 miles wide,
...
every inch curiously carved
You choose from many different
railway routes across the con-
tinent of America from San
Francisco.
11
11
s 1-1
<*:-x
21
if
%%[
Snn
218
*•*««
2.1 8
iis
■
mi
11
m
m
in
San Francisco, terminus of the Matson
Line and the beginning of your de-
lightful rail journey across the con-
tinent, is a modern city of great charm.
the majestic Grand Canyon en route to ENGLAND
& Z
m
- v v
Highest of all cataracts —Yosemite
Falls in Yosemite National Park
near San Francisco. The total
drop is almost a half-mile.
FROM all over the world, travellers make
special trips to view the stupendous
Grand Canyon of the Colorado River in
Arizona. Nature was millions of years in
sculpturing and coloring this breath-taking
spectacle.
The Grand Canyon lies right along your
fastest, shortest route to England. Yosemite
Valley, Zion National Park, Bryce Canyon,
Yellowstone National Park, the Rocky
Mountains of Colorado, and many great
cities—all these may he enjoyed at mod-
erate expense when next you go “back
home.”
From Sydney to San Francisco you travel
on a fast Matson liner, with shore excur-
sions at Fiji, Samoa and Hawaii. Days are
moderate and pleasant. Moving pictures,
orchestra, deck sports, swimming pool
amuse you. From San Francisco to New
York you journey by modern railway train
in luxurious cars that make rail travel a
delight.
Ask for new illustrated literature, “To
England Across America,” free to those
planning trips.
m
.j, IJ Hi
Every year many English-speaking people visit
Lincoln Memorial in Washington to pay homage
to a great statesman of English ancestry who loved
humanity.
Write to Dept. M 26,
AMERICAN
RAILWAYS TRAVEL and
INFORMATION Itl REAI
12 Bridge Street
SYDNEY


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
nm
f «
U | ? »i HI
■ JJ
II
II If If
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Tariff.
Single Room and Meals .. ..
Double Room and Meals ..
Single Room and Breakfast ..
Double Room and Breakfast ..
Telephone: F 4141.
Day. Week,
25/- 168/-
45/- 300/-
15/- 100/-
27/6 182/6
This dainty
watch is of
platinum, set
with finest
quality blue
white diamonds.
£63
& 1
•: '•
w
WM
t MAA
J Jr
‘fSir
Sir
: ;.-l
WHAT LOOKS BETTER THAN A
DIAMOND-SET
WRISTLET WATCH?
Nothing expresses feminine
charm so subtly as a diamond-
set wristlet watch on a dainty
wrist. Such an adornment is
in accord with the best
standards of taste and refine-
ment —and in addition is use-
ful and necessary in hourly use.
The most exclusive designs in
all-platinum or white gold, set
with specially chosen diamonds,
are available at Fairfax and
Roberts—reasonably priced.
The movements are imported
and are thoroughly reliable.
Each watch is guaranteed for
15 years and kept in order
free of charge (breakages
excepted), for twelve months.
FAIRFAX $ ROBERTS, LTD.,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
ZM
A good reliable
watch of dainty
design, in white
gold set with
Onyx and blue
white diamonds.
£25/10/-
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Harold Hardupp”: The at-
tacks made on boys recently by
monkeys in the Sydney Zoo are
reminders that the springtime is
a dangerous season in which to
trespass on the domain of any
wild animal. In the case of the
monkeys they are stirred to sav-
agery not so much because they
feel impelled to protect the
females as that they desire to
show off. before them. Hector,
finding himself less in favor with
the fair Ermyntrude than he
thinks he should be, and fearing
her interference and disfavor if he
tries to murder his rival, tries
to show up that milksop Mer-
vyn Alarmaduke by leading his
gang in an exploit he knows
Mervyn will not join. These
episodes may have changed the
course of many monkey-pit
romances. I watched one of
these recently. The monkey
Gladys was escorted by two cava-
liers, who, since she interfered
whenever they tried to bite one
another, were limited to .snarling
and showing their teeth, and to
exhibiting feats of agility and
courage. Roy came a thud when
he told the others to watch him
give cheek to old-man King-of-
tlie-Pit, but Percy’s enjoyment of
the joke was spoiled when Gladys
showed a tenderness for her
damaged suitor’s wounds. En-
raged, Percy invited all to have a
Ipok at him. Taking a tremen-
dous swing on a tree in the pit,
he made a flying leap for the
parapet, yelling as he went that
Roy daren’t do this. Percy
didn’t reach the parapet, poor
chap. He collided hard with the
wall and dropped into the pit
below. With a little squeal of
anguish Gladys was beside him :
hut Roy tenderly put his arms
around her and drew her away
from the horrid sight. Alonkeys
have a belief that those who are
mangled and helpless should not
he allowed to live, and a keeper
arrived only just in time to save
what was left of Percy’s life.
As he was taken away he must
have felt pretty sick to see Roy,
his arm about her, comforting the
tears of Gladys, and being
allowed to do it!
“Ostrich”: Dad had bought a new colt,
and he said it would turn out the speediest
thing on four legs that the district had
KEEPING HIS CONSCIENCE CLEAR.
CUSTOMER: “Why do ’ee always call Nicholas to do the weighin’?”
MERCHANT: “Well, you see, it’s this way — I do belong to the chapel, and he dawn’t.”
POPULAR SONGS ILLUSTRATED—No. XXX.
“Where My Caravan Has Rested.”
ever seen. Dave had a very poor opinion
of the purchase, and much to his disgust
was told that he would have to ride it in the
Spring Handicap at the Booliwalla picnic
meeting. When the day arrived Dad was
unfit for travelling owing to a mistake early
one morning when he had tried to saddle the
bull. Dave was sent off with full instruc-
tions. “Let ’im go easy till the first lap’s
over,” he was told, “and then he can go as
fast as he likes. It’s worth fifty quid, and
if we win it there’ll be five fer you.” Dave
trotted off without a word. He returned
that evening looking downcast. “Well,'’
demanded Dad excitedly, “did yer pull it
off?” “No,” snarled Dave; “the flamin’
thing didn’t even get round once.” “Why?”
roared Dad. “Didn’t they let ’im start? I
know ’em, the thieves. They’re jealous of
’im, that’s what it is.” “He started all
right,” said Dave bitterly, “but when we’d
got half-way round he looked back and saw
them givin’ the prizes away, and it took
all the ’eart out of ’im.”
*..’■'***
“Sepia”: The octopi (or octopuses) that
livp in Sydney Harbor seem to be feeling the
pinch of hard times. In the past they have
been inoffensive and decorous, pursuing their
lawful occasions with justice to all and
enmity to none. They have not brawled with
sharks nor molested lobsters, and until one
or two were captured and put in the Taronga
Park aquarium the human denizens of the
city (outside the fishermen, who cut them up
for bait) hardly knew what they looked like.
But now all is changed. The octopuses (or
octopi) of the harbor have had a meeting and
declared war against men—especially fisher-
men. First fruit of that decision was gar-
nered by Oscar Asche’s fisherman-friend Mes-
senger whose launch had sunk off Darling
Point. He dived down one morning to see if
the crabs had got away with the carburetter,
and while making an inspection felt himself
gently tapped on the shoulder. He thought
he had come in contact with a frond of
seaweed and took no notice, but when he let
go of the boat to ascend again he felt him-
self tethered. Turning he found himself
in the grip of a large octopus, squid or cuttle-
fish, which had a half-nelson on the boat, a
grape-vine on his body and a baleful look in
its eye. Its beak appeared to have been
newly sharpened. Luckily there was a rope
connecting the sunken launch with the shore.
Straining on this, Messenger managed to
pull the octopus’s tentacles clear of the boat,
and made his -way to the surface, accompanied
by the octopus, which stuck to him closer
than a brother. But as Asclie’s pal looked
once more on the pleasant land and the
bright sunlight the creature, overcome with
remorse, or not liking the taste of him, let
go all of a sudden and sank to the depths
again, to be seen no more.
j{? % *
“Georgina Washingday” : Poddy sheep are
useful, as decoys, but otherwise they are apt
to presume. We used to have a big cross-
bred poddy by the name of Archibald. The
men thought a lot of him, but he was a fear-
ful nuisance to us women. He could not
open doors, but gates were nothing to him —
he used to rear up and kick at the latch until
it opened. Nothing was safe from him. The
best plants in the garden, the freshly-baked
cake set to cool upon the kitchen table, the
parcel of bread left by the mailman—any-
thing suited Archibald. He grew to an enor-
mous size, and presently found out that so
long as there were only women about he
need not allow himself to be chased away
from the scene of his depredations. Instead
he just spread his feet, lowered liis head and
stood firm until he felt inclined to go of
his own accord. In this attitude the Rock
of Ages wasn’t a circumstance to Archibald.
One day the men were dipping a mob of
ewes and lambs, when a short panel of
fence at the top of the race gave way. If
the lambs had got out it would have meant
endless, heart-breaking work to yard them
again. But Archibald realised his respon-
sibility. In an instant there he was, feet
spread and head down, filling the gap like
a stone set in cement, and not until the last
old ewe was into the dip did Archibald
budge. After that of course we couldn’t be
very stern with him.
* * * *
“Frigid” : Dad came home feeling dead sick,
so a doctor was sent for. The medico gave
instructions that Dad’s temperature must
be taken at hourly intervals during the night,
and he’d call in the morning. H'e fully
expected to sign Dad’s death certificate, but
instead found him sitting up in bed read-
ing the daily paper, and belching forth black
smoke from a pipe. “This is a wonderful
recovery; what have you done to him?”
queried the doctor. “Well,” said Mum, “as
we didn’t have a thermometer, we borrowed
a barometer. I put it on his chest in below
the blankets, and it pointed to ‘Very dry.’
So I gave him two stiff whiskies and a bottle
of beer —and there he is!”
“I TAKE IT.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Old Dan can argue by the mile.
Dan has a patronising style,
A habit fixed (no mortal man can break
it)
Of placing you where you belong
And indicating where you’re wrong
With the condescending opening phrase,
“I take it”
He’ll say, “I take it you’re too young
To recollect when banks went bung
In eighty-nine and queered the country’s
credit.”
Or this, “I take it you don’t know
The rules that govern so-and-so.”
“Maybe,” Dave answers, or, perhaps, “You
said it.”
Dan disapproves of sudden wealth
Acquired by will, by gift or stealth.
“I’ll tell yon, Dave,” says he, “the way
I reads it.
Great wealth leads many a man astray.
I take it much ain’t come your way
As yet.” “My oath ! Too right!” Thus
Dave concedes it.
“But s’pose the Devil at his task
Offered you all that you could ask;
Money to burn, from every quarter blowin’;
Freedom to keep, to give or lend it;
A pretty girl to help you spend it.”
“Ain’t no complaints so far,” says Dave;
“good goin’.”
“Coupled,” adds Dan, “with obligations
To charity an’ poor relations,
And a bond as tight as sulphur fire can
make it
For joys that bring you in disgrace
To serve in Hell —well, in that case
What would y’ do?” Dave winks and
says, “I take it.”
S.A.
BILL O’C.


PLAIN AS A
A
/
y
PIKESTAFF
are the duplicates pro-
duced with a'Mephisto*
Copying Pencil.
It lasts much longer
and writes much
smoother without
heavy pressure.
Medium, Hard and
Extra Hard Degrees.
THE POPULAR
COPYING PENCILS
Also in 8 colours 'or checking, etc.
From ali Stationers, etc.
h. & C. HARDTMUTK. of "KOH-I-NOOR” Pencil fame,
London Office—2l). Kinssway, W.C.2 *■
Austra ian Representative
JOHN MACDODGALL, P. O. Box 165. SYDNEY.
0
TecalemiT Ltd.
LUBRICATION EXPERTS
MITRE HOUSE, SCRUBBS LANE,
WILLESDEN, LONDON, N.W. 10
ifeeAILEMIT
LUBRICATION BY AUTOMATIC
HAND GUNS.
HIGH PRESSURES WITH CLEANLINESS
AND AUTOMATIC ACTION OPERATED
BY ONE HAND ONLY.
(Slide-on or Push-on Connectors.)
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street Perth
Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street Adelaide
Keep Bros. & Wood Pty., Ltd., Bateman Street .. Melbourne
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street Sydney
Martin, Wilson Bros., Ltd., 299 Adelaide Street .. Brisbane
Factory Representative:
Mr. James Thornell, 312 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“C.Q.”: Prof. Wood Jones, of Melbourne
University, mentioned in a recent Bulletin
as the promulgator of a revolutionary theory
about man’s origin, is an insatiable research
worker in many departments. He was once
cable-station medico at Cocos. Having
observed that most of the animals there
drank seawater, lie set himself to see how
long he could subsist on that beverage, plus
his usual dietary. He suffered no discomfort
whatever for 48 hours, after which the
fluid began to nauseate him. This will be
news to some of our writers of fiction, who
invariably send their shipwrecked crews mad
after the first sip of ocean.
* * * *
“Solong”: Angler J. Wilkinson, of Wind-
sor (Vic.), made fishing history when he
hooked a remora (pilot fish) recently. Rare
in local waters, this is said to be the first
time .a remora has fallen a victim to a baited
hook m Hogan s State.
The tribe abound in
far-northern waters,
and festoon the bellies
of whales and sharks,
and even attach them-
selves to luggers, there-
by causing the pearlers
no end of trouble.
They are armed with
sucker-pads which,
when attached to ob-
THE HINT.
“What do you think of that, my dear?”
“Abominable, my love! Why, it’s as good as telling us we’re not wanted!”
jects, adhere firmly. The pad is arranged
along the back, and extends from the top of
the remora’s snake-like head to the fins. In
shape the fish is something like a barracouta.
Jji *
“Up Top”: The champion banana-eater
of Australia is Cooktown’s Mick Fynn, a
little man with a tangled red beard. I’ve seen
him eat 13 dozen bananas without stopping.
He is a teetotaller. “I never, mixes ’em,”
he confided to me: “the fermentation in them
bananas makes all th’ brew. I want.”
=i= -Hs - * *
_ “Avril”: Although the hornet is prac-
tieally unknown, in Maoriland
there is in that country, a
widely-distributed “mason bee”
or “mason fly” that builds and
provides in the same, fashion.
This energetic worker, black
in color, makes a buzzing
sound, suggesting a bee hover-
ing round, and is ready to take
space in any cupboard or
corner for the summer
months. Using preferably a
fine white clay the insects
build a series of chambers, de-
positing an egg in each and
supplying each with a larder.
The larders I have inspected
consisted almost wholly of
spiders, stung into insensibility
and carefully put into storage
for the young grub to begin his
life upon. Householders wage
war upon the mason bees on
account of their liking for
building in folds of clothing
and cementing hanging frocks
and coats to adjacent walls. It
is no uncommon thing in
North Auckland to see an in-
dignant owner scraping from a
coat which has been hanging
a couple of days the remains
of the long, chambered struc-
ture of a mason bee.
“MacFlecknoe”: “Gad” (B. 24/10/’3O)
quotes Lord Tankerville as saying that the
fact that no black calves are born in the
Chillingham herd proves that the herd car-
ries no bar sinister. Any trespasser on the
Chillingham preserves would have little time
for love-making. Even the keepers go about
in carts, and they only do this with impunity
because the cattle know thev will be fed from
the vehicles at intervals. When the herd has
to be thinned, guns are carried in the cart,
and as the cattle follow selected victims are
picked off. But “Gad” is not quite correct in
saying that no black or colored calves have
been born to the herd. This happened on
several occasions, but in 1882 the then Lord
Tankerville consulted Clem Stephenson, a
young vet., who contended that white Cliil-
linghams could see animals of mixed colors
through gaps in the walls, and that the sight
affected the mothers so that they bore colored
calves. The idea was received with scepti-
cism, but Lord Tankerville blocked up the
gaps, and since then no black or colored
calves have been born.
* Ht * Hs
“Dick the Duffer” : It is with some appre-
hension that I note the attention being
directed in Queensland to the Carnar-
von mountains, a wild and broken sec-
tion of the Great Dividing Range,
separating Roma and Springsure. This has
been increased by the intimation that an
aerial photographic survey of the district
will shortly be made with a view of calling
tourist attention to its beauties. In my
opinion this stickybeaking is unwarranted.
For many years the Carnavon ranges have
been tha. last stronghold of that branch of
the cattle-raising industry which dispenses
with natural increase as a means of multi-
plying its herds. It was here that the Ken-
niffs flourished, and, like Jacob, took means
to see that the numbers of their flocks were
TALKIES.
HORATIO HAMLET: “Yes, sir, we gave our art, and they rewarded us with empty houses!
The people in our days seem to have wool over their eyes.”
AUGUSTUS CHUCKLEWIT: “Not wool, laddie! Film! film!”
added to. I need hardly point out the disas-
trous effect the intrusion of hordes of tourists
would have on these sylvan solitudes, especi-
ally as the cows are sure to be accompanied
by the traps. Similarly, the photographing
of the area from above will go far to
destroy that atmosphere of seclusion and
remoteness from the madding throng that
was one of its greatest charms to myself
and my fellows.
# ❖ * *
“Hamer” : The inquiry made by “Frigid”
(B. 15/10/’3O) regarding birch-wine sug-
gests another liquor of great virtue which
appears to have been forgotten—spruce beer.
An earlier generation used to regard it as
an infallible remedy for internal bruises. I
struck it first in England as a small kid
when, having been locked in a second-storey
dormitory in a preparatory boarding-school
as a punishment for my sins, a rebellious
spirit caused me to get out of the window
and climb down by the ivy. As the ivy
didn’t hold the descent was much quicker
than was intended,, with painful results.
When it was found that no bones were
broken the school matron, an old-fashioned
soul, decided that spruce beer was the thing
to guard against possible internal injuries,
and I was well filled up with the stuff.
When I woke up 12 ' hours later it was
with a very bad head and some stiffness,
but the severe pains were all gone. There
is no doubt the spruce beer had done good
work. It is a pity these old-fashioned rem-
edies should be forgotten.
& * * *
“Elderly Infant” : Put back the clock. It’s
a sunny Sunday morning in 1900. Yester-
day you took delivery of your new bicycle.
In the afternoon you gave it a trial spin—
a mere 20 miles or so out and home —and
found it peerless and incomparable for speed
and beauty, though it was only “made out of
parts.” Older and richer men might swank it
with Beeston Humbers, Osmonds or Ariels —
the Rolls-Royces and Napiers of that time
—but you were well content. You made
your own breakfast and sallied forth early,
for the club assembled at seven. Your
fellow-members didn’t seem much impressed
with your magnificent new steed, being taken
up with the president’s new Rudge-Whit-
worth with a iin. pitch roller chain, and
the secretary’s equally new Columbia chain-
less. Another diversion is the arrival of
Billy Smith, the almost-cliampion, on a Sterl-
ing and a tandem manned by a pair of hard-
visaged veterans. Evidently the pace will
be a hot one this day of grace, but you are
young and confident, and fear not. So fares
the band of riders forth, over hill and dale
and downs. The tandem leads for the first
10 miles. Then Smith and half a dozen of
the cracks break away. You are not to be
caught napping, and switch behind. The
fun commences. The lads ahead try every
trick of the track to shake you off—and
they know the whole repertoire—but this is
your day, and when the Bluegum Inn is
reached at about eleven you stretch tottery
legs, being still among those present, and
buy beer like a lord for the rest of the van-
guard. The pace is more sedate to the lun-
cheon rendezvous, and the homeward miles
are reeled off at a steady bat of 20 an hour
that allows everyone a turn at pacing. Your
turn comes about three miles from home.
Suddenly shapes flash past you. The cracks
arc battling for first to finish, and you gape
after them with scarce a kick left, while
mocking voices in the rear inquire if your
little legs are tired. So you pick on the
most aggressive youngster and say you can
lick him, anyway, and you do. Ah, brothers,
a great and glorious and golden day!
THEY COULD GUESS THE REST .
“And did you tell the office you’d changed
your mind and would be back on
Monday morning?”
“No, my dear, I don’t believe I did. Still,
they know you’re coming with me.”
THE GOLD BONUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A bonus of a pound or so on ev’ry ounce
of gold
That’s got,” said Ejudma Ed., “they’re talk-
ing of, I’m told.
I ain’t the one to say it isn’t fair and right
—but yet
I’d sooner have my bonus on the gold I
didn’t get.
“It’s not the chap who has the ounce that
needs the extra quid
As much as I am doin’ now an’ nearly always
did.
The gullies that I’ve raked! The useless
graft on patch and flat!
They never think a bloke has earned a
darned razoo for that.
“The duffer shafts I’ve helped to .sink, from
Norseman to Nanntne!
'Well, there’s another hole,’ we’d say on
quitting, ‘for the Queen.’
But that was thirty years ago. I’ve sunk
a few for Ned,
And many more for George since then,” said
Ejudina Ed.
“The miles and weary miles I’ve tramped
on many a wild-goose rush,
And all for nix ! The stone I’ve raised that
never paid to crush !
The claims I’ve pegged that carried only
saltbush, starve the crows!
I’ll never get a blinkin’ thing from anyone
for those.
“Don’t think I grudge the companies the
extra bit they’ll pay *
For gold that’s won along the Mile an’ up
Wiluna way.
I wish ’em luck,” said Ed and sighed. “But
wouldn’t I be set
If ! bonuses were voted for the gold you
didn’t get.”
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


g
ANNOUNCING P. &, C. ACCIDENT
AND SICKNESS ASSURANCE
For nine years the co-operative
policy of the P. and 0. has won
the goodwill of the Man on the
Land throughout the length and
breadth of Australia.
The Company now announces
accident and sickness assurance
on the same co-operative basis.
The liberal nature of these
policies and tlip special benefits
they provide will make an imme-
diate appeal to all who wish to
protect their incomes and pro-
vide for additional expenses
incurred during periods of dis-
ablement.
Send for literature and full
particulars to
PRODUCERS CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: H. Fell.
Head Office: P, & O. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents; Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
Agency Co., Ltd. r s=
DO YOU WANT TO EARN MORE MONEY?
fdg
Men of ability and average education . who wish to get out of the rut and
enter a profession where there, is a certainty of employment are advised to
send for our prospectus. Here is one profession where the supply is not equal
to the demand. NOW is the time to begin.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Head Office.
Brisbane.
THE EQUITABLE LIFE
Assurance Company of Australasia, Ltd.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Office: 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Company issues every variety of Probate, Whole
Life, Endowment, Children’s Endowment, Combined
Benefits (All Sicknesses) and Personal Accident Policy.
Policies provide for payment of Hospital Expenses in
lump sum or partial disability, and for cessation of
premiums on total disability. Secure full particulars from
any of the Company’s offices.
FREDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
A REMARKABLE SOUTH' AUS. FARM.
“L.A.G.”: A farm of SOO acres at Coo-
mandook, situated in what is still known as
the Ninety-mile Desert, is an example of
what may be done with cheap land when
systematically worked. Twenty years ago
the property was taken up at six shillings
per acre. Last year—a bad one for the State
—it produced 300 bags of wheat and 100 tons
of hay. Seven hundred sheep were kept
through the year and about ten head of big
stock.
This year the crop looks good enough to
yield eight to ten bags to the acre, although
the Government Statist, owing to an unfav-
orable September, has reduced his estimated
average for the State to eight bushels. A
thousand sheep are being kept; the surplus
will be sold as fats.
GOOD RAMS MEAN BETTER PRICES.
“Jumbuck” : It would be hard to estimate
the economic loss through the breeding of
inferior stock in Australia. The disastrous
practice may be attributed to (1) careless-
ness, (2) ignorance, (3) lack of ready cash,
on the part of the small grazier and mixed
farmer especially ; but in many cases there
should have been no lack of ready cash while
high prices were ruling for meat and wool
of any class. The voice of the stud-stock
breeder has been as the voice of one crying
in the wilderness. “He wants to sell me
some of his rams,” was the small farmer’s
contemptuous comment. The small farmer
would be well advised to use nothing but
rams bred from registered flocks in future.
This is at least a guarantee of pure breeding.
Taking the useful life of a ram at four
years, the extra cost of using good regis-
tered rams in place of nondescripts would
not amount to more than three-halfpence
per ewe served, and, say, twopence per
lamb dropped. The increased value for good
straight lines of freezers or store-weaners
would probably not be less than ninepence
per lamb—more likely it would be a shilling
to one and threepence, This would return
more than the extra cost of the good ram in
one season. The additional prices for the
remaining three seasons would be all bunce.
The necessity of improving the quality of
stock throughout Australia cannot be too
sti'ongly emphasised. The difficulty of obtain-
ing good straight lines of freezers or cross-
bred weaners for fattening is out of all
reason. Purchasers would gladly pay the
extra price for good-quality stock. As a
buyer of from 10,000 to 15,000 store sheep
and lambs per annum for fattening, I speak
from experience.
EARLY SHEARING AND LATE
LAMBING.
“Mutton”: The dry winters of late years
have led to what may be termed a new
fashion in sheep husbandry—late lambing.
This has necessitated very early shearing.
The new system has been very effective dur-
ing drought years, but it is doubtful if the
good results will continue when seasons
again become normal. Early shearing—that
is, shearing in April—has some advantages
in that the weather at that time of the year
is usually reliable and the cold has not
set in. One drawback is that the sheep
have to carry nearly a full fleece during the
hottest period of the year. This naturally
restricts their ability to travel for feed and
water. Paddocks have to be small and water
plentiful to enable them to do well. The cut-
ting up of paddocks and providing of numer-
ous watering-places are admittedly desirable,
but they are very expensive developments.
In regard to late lambing, experience has
proved that September is usually a better
month for feed than June. Still, serious
disadvantages occur when the lambing is
timed for the former month. In normal
season, the blowfly is very active in Septem-
ber, and lambing during an active blowfly
season may, unless special precautions are
taken, prove disastrous. Secondly, grass
seeds can prove very troublesome, especially
among unshorn lambs; and lambing in the
spring of the year will often necessitate a
second shearing to shear the lambs. This
comes expensive. Again, when these lambs
are shorn in April at the regular shearing-
time, their wool will be too short to be
fleece wool and will not have the tip of
la All' things considered, the old practice of
winter lambing and spring shearing has much
in its favor.
THE BLOWFLY IN N.Q.
“ J. Creek” : The blowfly doesn’t seem to
be troublesome in extreme heat or extreme
cold, or when there is a harsh dry wind
blowing. Every sort of fly is a danger;
the most numerous in my experience of N.
Queensland arc medium-sized blue-green ones
and golden-brown ones. The simplest and
least expensive trap I have seen consisted
of a benzine-tin, with half of two opposite
sides cut out and fly-proof gauze soldered
over the spaces made. In the middle of
one of these gauze placements a gauze
funnel is fixed about lialf-way into the trap,
the outside end, 14in to 2in. in diameter,
tapering down to |in., with a jagged edge
protruding in the trap. The fly can get in
but can’t (or doesn’t) come out. A small
fly-proof door, big enough to let one’s hand
in, can be made at the bottom of the trap.
The bait can be any sort of meat; sprinkled
with “dingo trail” it is the more effective.
I don’t believe in poisoning dead carcases.
Too many birds and goannas are thus killed.
In normal years the kite or scavenger hawk
will clean up most of the carcases, if left
alone.
I have been in N. Queensland since Nov.,<
1918. The only years in which flies were
really bad were 1920 and 1921. In 1920
there was good rain nearly every
month. The blowflies became a pest in
April, when the ewes had just finished lamb-
ing. I jetted these ewes with a mixture of
31b. of Cooper’s dip, 21b. of arsenic and 61b.
of washing-soda dissolved in 100 gallons of
water —jetted with an engine, the pressure
being about 1301 b. to 1401 b. I drafted out
the badly-blown sheep, thinking the press-
ure and the mixture would be too severe,
and treated them with dip, putting soft
soap on to soothe the wound. This was
quite effective. When I shore those ewes
(10,000 of them) in July, only 10 were
struck and the loss of lambs was but normal,
nor did any of the shearers complain about
arsenical poisoning.
When this job was over, I put 12 cull
maiden ewes, not jetted, by themselves in
a small paddock. After a few experiments
I came to the conclusion that 101 b. of
arsenic, 121 b. of washing-soda and a couple
of handfuls of soft soap, dissolved in 100
gallons of water, was the cheapest and most
effective method of combating blowfly attacks.
The ewes lambed again in October and
November; a big lambing, and no fly trouble
—on account of the heat, I suppose.
In 1921 the flics were only bad among
the maiden ewes and ewe weaners. I
jetted them with the 101 b. arsenical mixture
with satisfactory results, again taking out
the badly-blown sheep and treating them
separately with dip and soft soap. I believe
jetting to be more effective than crutching.
It is cheaper, and with jetting every sheep
is a walking fly-trap.
The jetting race was 60 feet long, wide
enough for two sheep abreast, about 3 feet
high, corduroyed and well drained, and
divided into three. Close to the race, a 400-
gallon tank was sunk into the ground ; it wag
filled by a bore drain. Enough mixture for
400 gallons was dissolved in petrol-tins. The
tank was filled with the mixture and well
stirred; then the stuff was dipped out of the
tank into the supply tank of the jetting
plant as required. An improvement on dip-
ping would have been pumping direct from
the 400-gallon tank into the supply tank, but
I’m a poor mechanic. Before starting, be
sure to have the strength of the arsenic
tested, and don’t try to break any records
doing the jetting.
Russell, M.L.A., probably knows as much
about the blowfly as anyone in Australia.
There was a good deal of experimenting on
his property, Dalmally, near Roma, and
what little I know I found out by reading
about these experiments.
MONEY IN HORSE-BREEDING.
“Bendee”: Without decrying motor-power,
it is increasingly evident that Dobbin’s day
is by no means done. The breeding of
draughts, cavalry remounts, springcart types
and polo ponies is going to be a profitable
business for those who go in for it systema-
tically.
The falling-off since 1915 in the compara-
tive number of foals under one year is rather
startling. In that year there were 733,341
horses in N. S. Wales, 60,337 of them foais
under one year; in 1929 there were 517,371
horses in N. S. Wales, only 19,991 of them
foals under one year. Of course a large
proportion of the 517,371 were aged. When
these are worked out prices for suitable
young stock will rise substantially.
To breed good-quality, strong-boned,
spirited horses, it is necessary to choose
country which has not been over-stocked.
Country which has carried an excess of
stock for years will be deficient in calcium,
which is necessary to make bone. The pas-
tures should be top-dressed and sown with
lucerne and other grasses to ensure that the
feed-supply will be plentiful and nutritious.
In the selection of mares and • sires only
those of tractable disposition should be
chosen. A definite type should be aimed at
and maintained by judicious selection and by
culling of animals exhibiting undesirable
propensities.
BRIDLE-BREAKERS.
“Wetherby”: I note “Bad Australian’s”
remarks (B. 8/10/’3O), with which
I largely disagree. It is hard, but not
impossible, to rid an imperfectly broken-
in horse of the habit of breaking bridles.
The colt should be taught, before he
leaves the breaker’s hands, that there
is something stronger than himself, and
there is only one way. After being put
through all other operations, he must be tied
up with a strong green hide halter and
shank and made to pull back. He then finds
fie cannot break away; and a horse never for-
gets. Suppose a horse is a confirmed bridle-
breaker, who but a raw newchum would tie
him to anything which is stronger than
the bridle reins? Far better to hitch him up
to something that will give to the first pull.
The animal gets clear with reins dangling,
promptly puts a foot through the reins, is
embarrassed, and can be easily caught—
unless he is a confirmed rogue; in that case,
it is best to carry a light pair of hopples.
Even well-broken horses will occasionally
pull away under the influence of a sudden
scare. “Bad Australian” says “the very first
thing a colt should be taught is to lead.” Has
he not noticed how difficult it is to drive that
colt in reins afterwards? Once he has been
taught to lead, lie always wants to face his
master. I prefer driving in reins before
teaching any horse to lead. He can be taught
that in a few minutes by a very simple ex-
pedient, provided he is not a pig.
“W.D.Mc” : I agree with “Bad Australian”
that bridle-breaking is caused by colts being
badly handled. To prevent them from pull-
ing back, here is a method which T have used
all my life. Take a half-incli rope about
18ft. long, double it and make a loop to drop
over his quarters to act as a breeching.
Have the knot on top of the wether, bring
the loose ends round each side of the neck
and tie together in the front, making a
figure eight. Then tie a light rope or rein
to the figure eight. When the colt pulls back
on the halter apply the pull on the figure
eight. Nine time out of ten he will jump
forward as soon as he feels the pressure
behind. You can teach a colt to lead m
half an hour. When you go to tie him up,
pass the shank of the halter over the. top
rail or through a ring in a post and tie it
to the figure eight. I will guarantee that
he will never pull back.
“Saddler” : To cure a horse that pulls back
when tied up and breaks reins and bridles
a very effective method is practised in the
N.T., where abo.-broken horses are often
afflicted with the habit. A hitching-post is
fitted with two strong ringbolts, one about
18in. above the other. To the top ringbolt
the reins are attached, but with cotton or
thin string so that a tug will break them
away. Round the horse’s neck, close behind
the head, is placed a close loop of rope, pre-
ferably plaited, and tied so that it won’t slip
and choke the nag. From this a strong thin
rope is led through the ring of the bit,
through the lower ringbolt on the post, back
between the prad’s legs, over his back and
across his chest to return between his legs,
where a slip-knot is formed. As soon as the
reins snap the horse finds himself suddenly
and painfully caught by head and shoulders.
After one or two experiences like that you
could tie him up with a strand of spider-web.
“Jacques”: To cure a bridle-breaker, a
long rope is necessary, about 12ft. One end
is secured to the bridle, and the rope is then
passed through a ring on the crupper, back
through the bit-ring and then tied to a post.
Every time Dobbin pulls away from the post
ho tightens the crupper; the harder lie pulls
the harder the pull under his tail. If he
persists in pulling away and the rope doesn't
break, he will either crack his neck or pull
his tail out. but if he has oMinary horse-
sense he will be cured in no time.
KEEPING DOWN SHEARING COSTS.
“Ivripple”: One of the heavy items in
shearing expenses, the duplicate-parts bill,
can be reduced in many ways. Here’s one.
Give the gear a thorough cleaning imme-
diately prior to shearing, or see that the
contractor about to use your machinery does
so. There is probably no run in Australia
where dust- or sand-storms are not encoun-
tered. The grit finds its way into all the
bearings and oil holes. To start work with-
out removing this grit—and it is all too fre-
quently means that each of the
headgears becomes a miniature grinding
machine, considerably shortening the life of
many parts costly to replace. Added to
that, the hot bearings, a common result or
neglect, have shearers squirting pints of
oil where drops should be ample; and
lubricating oils are not cheap.
Attention given to any type of machinery
following idle periods is well worth while.
A UNIFORM STANDARD.
“Bar K.”: Uniformity is all-important in
the export of primary produce. If the over-
seas buyer knows that apples, butter, fat
lambs or eggs bearing an Australian brand
will open up definitely to a uniform standard,
he will know exactly what price to offer. If
one badly graded case - gets in it will upset
the whole consignment.
The overseas housewife doesn’t care a rap
whether her butter comes from the Darling
Downs, the N.S.W. South Coast, Gippsland
or South Aus. .She only knows, that if she
bought inferior stuff bearing an Australian
brand, it came from the Commonwealth.
However good the next lot of Australian
butter she sees in the shop may be, she will
pass it over.
Co-operation among producers, strict atten-
tion to grading and general acceptance of a
uniform standard will go a long way towards
increasing and maintaining our export trade
in all lines of produce.
GETTING RID OF RATS.
“Lucerne Flea”: You will need several
dozen new “break-back” traps. Put half
of them, baited with tasty morsels of cooked
liver, raw bacon, and cheese, in sheltered
corners; don’t set them. Put the rest, also
unset but without baits, upon shed rails
and in narrow spaces between cases and
walls where the rats have established run-
ways.
For at least a month look at all those
baited traps every morning and evening,
and renew the baits. See that no well-
meaning meddler sets any of them.
At the end of the month go round baiting
in the evening, but set every trap. The
result when you come along next morn-
ing will astonish you. Burn all the dead
except one or two ; they should have all the
fur singed off and be returned to the shed
for a few days for survivors to see. Clean
all the used traps with boiling water, and
shove them away. Now turn out all your
sheds, give them a spring cleaning, and put
all the stuff back, leaving spaces between
stacks and walls for a terrier, to get into.
Then lay about the sheds a few saucers con-
taining four parts of dry flour and one part
each of icing sugar and plaster of Paris, well
mixed together. Any rats or mice which
eat it find it rather dry; they go out in
search of a drink, and that settles them, for
the plaster of Paris sets like a rock inside.
But a rat so dosed doesn’t die on the prem -
ises—he clears out and does it elsewhere.
The same often happens after your grand
trapping offensive and spring cleaning; the
scared survivors emigrate in a hurry.
Provided you keep a young and inquisitive
terrier on the job you’ll have no further
trouble. The dog must have room to poke
round inside the sheds. One good terrier —
Australian for preference—is worth all the
cats in creation where rats are concerned.
BURNING-DOWN TREES.
“Buckwong”: “Scott’s” method of burning
down dry trees (B. 15/10/’3O) is a slovenly
adaptation of the stoving process, which,
a half-century’s experience has taught me,
cannot be successfully carried out in any
but the most painstaking manner. With the
help of a draught-horse (or a pair where
logs are large) the method of bringing the
remaining logs, after cross-burning with the
smaller stuff, is the easiest way there is of
making a clean job.
Of course if you purpose using a set-
plough you must stove out; but for other
purposes staving is a great waste of time
and labor. Last spring I undertook to
make fit for mowing over about 30 acres
of stumps from which all the available fire-
wood had long been taken. There was no-
thing to work with except numbers of solid,
sodden logs. Yet, in a few days, with the
occasional help of a pair of horses, I, single-
handed, had that paddock looking as if
timber had never grown there.
To have grubbed would have cost me 1.2
moiiths’ solid slavery ; to have stoved it out
certainly more weeks than burning off took
days.
THE FARM FOWL-ROOST.
“Mulyan”: The common fowlhouse on
farms and selections—in N. S. Wales, at all
events —is a slab-walled shed about eight
,feet high, with the roosts, laid across the wall-
plates and a ladder leaning against one of
them for the chooks to mount on. Of the
many ways of making roosts, this is about
the worst. It leads to all sorts of trouble.
A far better method is to make two tiers
of roosts, running up from near the centre
to the top of the wall at the ends of the
shed, using round bush timber. Place the
(Continued on page 25.)


' "
■IS:
i I.;-!,
Si! ill
T OISTIJU6RSW
?> S>
|l||||l|l||
W,M
V
1
mm
m
k&ieor
M
11
xw c*
IIJ
WMm
i
■m
:V
HHHH
a
I nias
smml
i
l : :
■
■ ■
;
jSppiaiip
111
Ifftff
■lll
lIIPPM
:
■lllllis —l—
lllilffllllilllil illiiilililiiiiii
•. i
WHISK*


Ferrodor Corrosive Paint
A Fine Home To-Day—
But how will it look in fine 13 ears time ?
Five years’ exposure to the
weather makes a vast dih
ference to the appearance
of any home. Unless com
stantly fought, the weather
will set up rust, corrosion
and decay, which eats into
the metal and woodwork
and makes the cost of
repairs & heavy burden.
df
PERFECT PROTECTION
long life —one coating on
record lasting 22 years in
perfect condition and
great covering capacity.
Even Aeid Cannot
Harm “Ferrodor.”
On each colour card is
attached a film of FER'
Ferrodor Paint Affords
Perfect Protection.
Let FERRODOR PAINT fight this
battle for you. It is on guard always.
It will not crack, blister or peel, since
it is naturally elastic. Neither rain,
sea air, nor chemical fumes can
penetrate its tough film. It is packed
in 20 colours which have extremely
RODOR PAINT. This has been
obtained by painting a sheet of zinc
on one side and dissolving off the
2;inc with Sulphuric Acid. The paint
[is left undamaged by the acid, prov'
ing its remarkable toughness and
resistance. Send for a colour card and
handle the film yourself. When you
stretch it and twist it you will see
how tough and elastic it is
William Adams 6? Co., Ltd.,
175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen, Please send me colour card and full
information of FERRODOR PAINT by return mail.
NAME
ADDRESS
D. 6? P. 1/28
WILLIAM ADAMS € COMPANY
LIMITED
SYDNEY, 175 Clarence Street; MELBOURNE, 521-523 Collins Street; ADELAIDE,
157 Waymouth Street; PERTH, 432-436 Murray Street; BRISBANE, 93 Albert Street.


S'V
riD
N/ 1
Utmost Pliancy
and Endurance
For these qualities the thick
crepe rubber sole of this
Abbey Golf Shoe is un-
surpassed. It outlasts ordi-
nary soles and is more com-
fortable to wear. And it is
sewn to a strong leather
base so that the shoe is held
firmly in shape.
The shoe is neatly brogued
.... low-cut at sides....
arched for perfect fit over
curve of instep. It allows
fullest muscle freedom.
Order by post.
Both full and half sizes are available in
medium and wide fittings. Specify width
and length and order, also, a tin of the
correct Abbey Preservative Polish (6d.),
or a cleaning outfit (2/6).
Brown Willow Calf,
50/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS’
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY
FPL 201
gfd
g
fdg
Painful
Boils
Apart from the pain one
suffers, what humiliating
afflictions are boils, rashes
and skin eruptions.
Zam-Buk with its special
antiseptic qualities cools,
soothes and heals. It relieves
the itching, ejects poisonous
matter and in no time
healing begins—then a clean
smooth skin.
Better still prevent un-
sightly skin trouble by using
Zam-Buk when pimples or
roughness first appear.
BINDER TWINE
“RENOWN” BRAND
Smooth, even twine, good yardage.
Will give every satisfaction in the
field.
MANUFACTURED AT MASCOT BY
J. SCOTT, LTD.,
Rope and Cordage Manufacturers,
Head Office Stores,
163 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: 82861. Box 25IDD.
SAMPLES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
Start your fortune
rut UZ22&2*
Ask for Literature
regarding our Plans
Get the banking habit. The most
fascinating game in the world is
to watch small deposits grow into
large. Start now with a small
deposit.
Have a Bank Account —Keep It Growing.
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS BANK OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London.
u
6ft. wide x Bft. drop
17/6
9ft. wide x Bft. drop
25/6
12ft. wide x Bft. drop
32/6
VERANDAH BLINDS
This Special Line of standard size Blinds, made of English White or Green
or Brown blocked Striped Duck, complete with fittings—top batten, heavy
bottom roller, single and double pulley straps, cord and staples.
Note.—We cannot supply this line in other than those quoted above.
Prices for other sizes and materials on application.
R
Oita BIGCEST HARDWARE-HOUSE, IN VICTORIA
(D. & W. CHANDLER, LTD.),
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY, VICTORIA.
first roost about 18in. or 2ft. off the ground,
the next about 18in. above it, and so on to
the top. The bottom ends of the side pieces
rest on low posts, leaving a space about 3ft.
wide along the side walls, where the nest
boxes are placed, and a 3ft. or 4ft. passage
in the centre between the bottom roosts.
This allows every fowl to hop easily up to
its proper place, and there is no trouble in
getting chickens to roost for the first time,
which usually happens with high perches.
The nests are always clean, as there are no
droppings along near the walls where they
are, and the farmer has clean passages to
walk in when he wants to get any of the
flock at night. The birds are easy to see and
get at, while the ground underneath the roosts
can be raked over in a few minutes. The
cleaning is simplified if the floor is thinly
covered with sand containing a sprinkling of
lime. The place should be raked out at
least two or three times a week; then there
is no objectionable smell.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
(1) Is the Tagerim variety of lucerne as
good as the common hind in feed value? (2)
Has it been tried in N.S.W.? (3) Is seed
available in N.S.W.? (4) Best season to
plant in Bowral (N.S.W.)? —9775. ■
(1) About the same as Hunter River
Broadleaf and Tamworth. (2) Yes. (3)
Try F. Rogen, Little Collins-street, Mel-
bourne. (4) Early autumn; with favorable
conditions a spring sowing would also be suc-
cessful.
(1) Are there any tobacco-growers in
N.S.W.? (2) If so, how does the product
compare ivith oversea stuff. (3) What cli-
matic conditions are most suitable in N.S.W.?
(4) Would it be possible to cultivate a small
plot near Sydney, and if so where could seeds
be obtained? —9554.
The Tobacco Expert N.S.W. Agriculture
Department states: (1) There are about 200
registered growers in the State. (2) It is
different in burning aroma from that imported
from America. (3) The climatic conditions
necessary are regular summer rainfall and
absence of frost during growing period. (4)
Yes, but it is doubtful whether it would be
of commercial value. A small sample of
seed for trial purposes could probably be
obtained from the manager of the Bathurst
Experiment Farm.
How to control slugs that eat my tomato
plants and lettuces? —963B.
Remove all debris and weeds prior to con-
trol measures being undertaken; then lay a
poisoned bait consisting of lib. calcium
arsenate to 161 b. bran. The arsenate should
be stirred dry with the bran until the whole
is thoroughly mixed. Sufficient water is then
added to make a crumbly mash. This
bait is scattered in a thin layer on the soil
along the rows of affected plants and other
situations where the slugs congregate; it
should be applied late in the afternoon
or at night to ensure its being moist, as it
is useless in a dry condition. Either slaked
lime or finely pulverised salt has been recom-
mended, if dusted liberally in the haunts of
the slugs. Another method involves the use
of a deadly poison, mercuric chloride (cor-
rosive sublimate), used at the rate of \ ounce
in 3 gallons of water. The greatest care is
essential in preparing and handling this
substance, as it corrodes metals, and should
be mixed in glass or glazed vessels. It acts
as a contact insecticide against slugs if the
soil and haunts are watered, but it must not
be placed around the plants or in the soil
near them. Lime and tobacco-dust are useful
for protecting young seedlings from slugs if
scattered in a ring around the plants.
(1) Arc White Indian Runners and Pekin
ducks the same? (2) llow many varieties of
Indian Runner are there, and names? (3)
Best layers? (4) Periodicals in which
breeders advertise? —9733.
(1) No. They are two very distinct
'breeds. (2) “Fawn,” “white” and “fawn
and white.” (3) Indian Runners and Khaki
Campbells. (4) Daily papers and N.S.W.
and Victorian poultry journals.
What makes a metal object suspended by a
string swing in certain directions when placed
just over an egg, swinging lengthways for
an egg containing a rooster, sideways for a
pullet and in a circle for a dud?, —9419.
There is no reliable evidence that it does
so. It seems to be a matter of imagination.
I have a horse that is continually yawn-
ing, stamping with its hind feet, backing
against things and rubbing itself. Although it
is in good condition it doesn’t seem to thrive
as well as it should, considering the guantity
of green feed in the paddock in which it is
running. Gan it be suffering from worms,
and if so, what is the proper treatment ?•—
9687.
Can’t definitely diagnose without examina-
tion, but there is a worm known as “oxyuris,”
which lives in the latter portion of the. bowel,
and may set up such symptoms. Treatment
consists in frequently sponging round the
tail so as to remove all discharge; and salt
enemas should be given by a vet.
An unfenced closed road for which I pay
rent runs through my propertn (Vic.),
crossing a river which has an unfenced
water frontage of several acres abutting on
to the crossing. (1) Gan I prevent fishermen
from camping and grazing horses during
weekends? (2) Is my boundary in mid-
stream?—96sB.
(1) As the property is not enclosed
trespassers cannot be prosecuted for entry
without felonious intent, but are liable to a
civil action for damages. (2) Yes, but
you have no rights over the water.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Wilt” : Five ways of keeping down costs
and thus increasing the margin of profit:
tl) Housing and oiling machinery, and
attending to minor defects before they become
major ones. (2) Working the land so that
there will be the maximum of tillage for
the minimum of labor. (3) Attention to
the care, condition and health of the working
team, that it may be able to pull its weight
at all times. (4) Starting early, so that
there will be something done by the time an
interruption occurs. (5) Nursing every
crop that it may yield to full capacity.
“Podkins”: Coal tar is a good preserva-
tive for iron receiving tanks if it is properly
applied, but nine times out of ten it is not.
The tar should be boiled till it dries imme-
diately it is applied. It then forms a skin
that is impervious to water. Added coats
may bring the thickness up to almost any
desired depth.
“Hobo”: Working a roaring horse in a
seven-abreast Mallee plough-team, I found he
did better on the near-side rein than when
cramped in among his mates. Allowed a bit
on the swingle-bar to keep him just ahead
of the others, he slowed down, didn’t get
so excited, and was able to hold his end up
without roaring much. He was a good
horse on the turns and marked time beauti-
fully while the rest got round into line.
Another thing—l never called his name. He
gradually quietened down and roared only
on very hot days. The prad actually put on
condition, a thing lie hadn’t carried for
years, principally because no one had
bothered to give him a fair spin.
“Mulyan”: To mend a split or cracked
axe-, pick,- shovel- or spade-handle, take a
strip of skin from the tail of a freshly-killed
wallaby, make a slit in the butt end and
pass the handle through it; then wrap the
skin neatly round the damaged part, hair
outward, and leave it for a couple of days. The
skin draws up as it dries, making a tight and
lasting binding. The hair can be scraped
off after the skin has properly set. This
binding is also effective on the shaft of a cart.
“Notwen”: Tank taps can be unscrewed
for repairs with little waste of water. Partly
fill a strong sugar-bag with sand, tie it
firmly to a long pole, and lower into tank
till it can be pressed firmly against tap aper-
ture ; then unscrew the tap. Pressure of water
will force the sandbag into the hole, closing
it till the tap has been repaired. In this way
also the extra piping can be attached to the
tank without waiting till it is empty.
“Strctton” : “Ivripple” (B. 27/8/’3O) not-
withstanding, a car or a truck can be used
as a power plant without wearing out the
differential. Put two posts in the ground
to take the bearings for a shaft, the full
width of the car. On each end of the shaft
put a pulley of the same size, also a pulley
in the middle of the shaft. Jack up both
back wheels and put a belt from each wheel
to each of the outside pulleys. Drive the ■
cliaffcutter (or whatever it may be) from
the middle pulley.
“0.W.W.”: When packing firewood have
a set of cradle-pegs where you are putting-
off the loads, and let the wood down on
them. Dumping it suddenly to the ground
may bruise Dobbin’s legs or bark your own.
“Peg”: When the new stove is installed
at the house, take the old one to the dairy
and build a galley for it. Two kero.-cans
of water can then be boiled with a minimum
of wood whilst milking is in progress, and
there will be no ashes blowing among the
utensils.
“Bung”: If a fruit tree won’t bear, or
drops its crop before maturity, dig trenches
among the roots, and in the bottom of each
place old horseshoes, rusty bolts or scraps
of iron. It is a treatment that often
answers.
“Bufforp” : Don’t delay the job of caponis-
ing those early cockerels; just when they
show the red and try to crow is the best
time. Starve the birds for a day before the
operation and place them in a litter-covered
shed with no perch for a day or two. If
a bird dies under the operation it’s quite
edible.
“W.D.McC.”: This is in reply to inquiries
concerning the tobacco-and-arsenic drench
for worm-infested sheep. If the drench is
prepared according to the formula given
(B. 10/9/’3O), and administered according
to the directions, one dosage is sufficient for
all but the very worst cases. A second dose
may be given in from 10 days to a fort-
night to any sheep or lambs that are still
scouring, and after another 10 to 14 days
to any chronic cases.
“Ivripple”: Further to “Booraby” on
grindstones (B. 17/9/’3O), here’s how to
square and true up. Fix a stout bar across
the face of the stone, two or three inches
from it and nearly on a level with the axle.
If there’s no frame to carry it put in stumps.
Get a piece of round steel about 4ft. long
and fin. to lin. diameter. Keeping the stone
dry, set it in motion towards you ; if manually
driven, have a relay. Firmly , holding one
end of the steel chest high with the right
hand, lower with the left, place the other
end over the bar until tli'e high parts of
the stone begin to strike and cut away. With
a slight rolling action work the steel across
the bar, gradually cutting away all the high
uneven parts until a smooth true face is
obtained.
“Hatter”: “Go Do” insists that 24cwt. of
super, gives the most profitable potato yield
(B. 8./10/’3O). I infer that a trial of lewt.
of s. of ammonia in addition to 2£cwt. of
super, has not come within his experience.
If farmers were more convinced of the
advantage gained by the use of s._ of ammonia
there might be some hope of bringing down
the price. All the same, Tas. farmers can
obtain it through the Bureau for £l2 12s.
per ton, which compares fairly favorably
with £lO per ton in England.
“E.H.M.”: Growers who have their
bananas raided by bandicoots and ’possums
should try smearing the low-hanging bunches
with lard.
“F.”: A way of keeping butter throughout
the summer. Wash and salt it well, add a
pinch of borax, reduce to lib. or 41b. pats
and tie in muslin. Make brine with coarse
salt, strong enough to float an egg; put it
into stone or glass jars with a weight on
top, and when quite cold put the butter into
it.
“Norcross”: If planting in dry weather
it is desirable to firm the soil over the seeds,
but if you’ve been using powerful fertiliser
see it doesn’t come in contact with them.
“Dimon” : A mate of mine who had a slug
gish stallion used to put the monkey-gland in
the quadruped by mixing a new-laid egg or
two with his mash. This also gave an extra
gloss to his coat.
The N.S.W. Department of Agriculture
is preparing to supply rams of different
breeds on terms. In the case of some of the
British breeds the animals will have to
be purchased by the department from other
breeders, and farmers proposing to take
advantage of the scheme are invited to sug-
gest a local breeder in making application.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readerh.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” ; or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Boy (15), Melbourne, leaving technical school,
wants job in office or apprentice to plumbing.—9697.
By experienced storekeeper, N.S.W., position as
manager, or would buy small 5h0p.—9683.
By young married man, N.S.W., work of any kind
on farm. Exp. book-keeping and store work and
boundary riding, and can drive car. —9693.
Motor driver-mechanic (37), single, 20 years’ exp.,
wants position anywhere. Knowledge tractors, pumps,
mills and sheep. Refs. —9633.
Young married couple, Q’land, want job together
on dairy farm or station. Man exp. in farming and
carpentry; wife, cook; reliable and sober.-—9628.
Lino, operator, Vie., wants position. City and
country exp. Refs. —9623.
Licensed plumber, Melbourne (36), wants work
anywhere, good general and roof hand, exp. hot
water. Refs. —9619.
Carpenter and handyman wants job on station,
anywhere; wife domestic duties, if required.—9s93.
Baker, married, first-prize winner Sydney Bread
Exhibition, 1929, two years foreman last place, seeks
employment.—972 4.
Scot (25), seven years’ shipping and shipbroking
exp., wants position anywhere. Refs. —9711.
Dispenser and secretary, lady, Sydney, three years’
exp. with country doctors, wants position. Would
undertake other light duties in doctor’s home. Refs.
—9783.
To buy astronomical telescope. Price and par-
ticulars.—9727.
To buy Dr. Jack’s report on gold reefs in the
Mackay district. —9779.
To buy Fowle’s “Sydney in 1848,” Malchose’s
“Picture of Sydney and Guide to N.S.W.” and
“N.S.W. Calendar.”—979o.
To buy Sam Bennett’s “History of Exploration and
Colonisation. ’ ’—9 789.
To buy Crosbie Garstin’s “Coasts of Romance.”
—9772.
To buy “Harper’s Magazine” (June-Nov. 1888).
—9761.
To buy, second-hand, Percy Lubbock’s “Craft cf
Fiction.”—9s9B.
Words of verses containing line, “ ‘We’ll all be
ruined,’ said Hanrahan, ‘before the year is done.’ ”
—9660.
Whereabouts of Thomas Nelson Preston, born Elm-
hurst (Vic.) about 1866, left for N.S.W. in 1890
and is believed to be working on station.—96s2.
Information Supplied.
(1) Price of (a) primary, (b) secondary
gliders, (c) sailplanes and (d) rubber
launching cord, in Australia? (2) How long
ivould a pupil need to occupy himself with
a primary glider? —972s.
(1) (a) £BO to £i2s. The cheaper type
is not recommended, (b) About £l5O, (c)
£2OO upwards, (d) £l5 to £2O. (2) With-
out previous flying experience, 12 to 18
months.
(1) What prospects has an Australian of
getting a commission in the R.A.F.? (2)
Would, it improve his chances if he qualified
for a pilot’s “A” license in the B. A. Aero
Club?— 9o76.
(1) If eligible for entry to the R.A.A.F.
he should also stand a reasonable chance for
selection for the R.A.F., but commission?
are allotted by a committee in London. (2)
It would help, but it wouldn’t outweigh or
replace other conditions of eligibility.
(1) Briefly what is the history of Vola-
puk? (2) Whence are the roots derived,
and number of letters in alphabet? (3) Text-
book on subject?. —9433.
(1) Volapuk was the first artificial lan-
guage to attain any measure of practical
success. First published in 1880, it was the
work of J. M. Schleyer, a South German
priest. H'e taught it successfully in Paris
and it was advocated for diplomatic and
scientific purposes by the Philological Society
of London. It fell into disuse through dis-
sension among its supporters. (2) The
roots are chiefiv borrowed from Romanic,
Germanic and English languages, shortened.
The alphabet consists of 27 letters—B vowels
and 19 consonants—and each letter has but
one sound. (3) “The International Lan-
guage; Handbook of Volapuk,” by G. E.
Sprague (1888).
(1) What are the prospects of farming
( wheat or tomatoes ) in B. Africa? (2)
Which district is best for wheat, and which
for tomatoes? (3) Where to get informa-
tion on conditions in B. Africa? —9398.
1 (1) Tolerable, for labor is cheap, but you
would need a fair amount of capital—suit-
able land is dear. (2) For wheat, Cape
Colony is the principal producer, with the
Orange Free State and Transvaal also in-
creasing their areas. For tomatoes, Cape
Colony and Natal. (3) Write to the Dept
of Agriculture for the South African Union,
Capetown.
_ How can the grain of silky-oak be filled to
give a smooth surface for French polishing?
—9527.
_ Shake powdered white-lead through a
sieve made from a piece of fine-meshed
gauze and then mix it on a piece of tin with
goldsize, working it up with a knife till a
smooth, thick paste is formed. Lay this into
the grain of the wood with a putty-knife.
When dry, the surface can be smoothed off
with glasspaper. There are some reliable
l’eady-mixed preparations on the market.
_ (1) What teas a diprotodon? (2) Where
did it live? (3) What led to its extinction?
—9493.
(1) Diprotodon Australis, “the two-front-
toothed animal,” was a heavily-built mar-
supial, the size of a large rhinoceros. (2)
Remains have been found in the great cen-
tral plains of Queensland, N.S.W. and S.A.
near what were, over 100,000 years ago,
lake beds, mud-springs and river beds; never
in coastal regions. (3) It was herbivorous,
and it is conjectured that, through a vast
diminution of rainfall in late Pleistocene
times, drought conditions destroyed its food-
sources.
I understand that owing to a shortage of
2d. stamps at Lord Howe Island last August,
the P.M. surcharged the lkd. stamps then in
use. (1) What types of stamps were sur-
charged? (2) Approximate number treated?
(3) 'Nature of surcharge? (4) Value of this
stamp? —9sls.
(1) lid. Sturt issue only. (2) Probably
one sheet —120 stamps. (3) “2d. paid, P.M.
Lr.H.1.,” hand-written in four lines. (4)
Impossible to say just yet, but they should
have a good future value.
Comparison of income-taxes payable in
each State on earned income of £5OO by
(a) married man with two children, (b)
married man without children and (c) un-
married man ? —9492.
According to the Vic. Taxpayers’ Asso-
ciation the amounts payable, based on rates
in force on October 8. 1930, would be (a)
Vic., £3 2s. 6d.; N.S.W,, £3 6s. Id.; Q’larnl,
£4 3s. 7d.; W.A., £4 2s. Id.; S.A., £lO 11s.
5d.; Tas., £7 Is. 7d. (b) Vic., £5 4s. 2d.;
N.S.W,, £7 os. Bd.; Q’land, £9 11s. lid.;
W.A., £6 13s. 4d.; S.A., £l4 11s. Bd.; Tas.,
£lO 3s. Id. (c) Vic., £6 55.,; N.S.W.,
£9 os. 9d.: Q’land, £l2 45.; W.A., £6 13s. 4d.;
S.A., £l5 16s. Bd.; Tas., £lO 3s. Id.
(1) What chemicals are used in the con-
struction of fire extinguishers? (2) How do
those chemicals operate to extinguish a blaze?
—9247.
(1) There are three types: (a) Soda-.
and-acid, in which lib. bicarbonate of soda
is mixed with 2gal. water. When this type
is inverted 2oz. of sulphuric acid is added to
the solution, and carbonic acid gas is formed
at a pressure of 1001 b. to the sq. in. (h)
Foam, in which bicarbonate of soda, glue or
liquorice root is dissolved in 2gal. water,
which is placed in an outer cylinder while, a
solution of aluminium sulphate in water is
placed in an inner cylinder. When the solu-
tions are combined a pressure of 1001 b. per
sq. in. is generated, (c) Electrical fire type,
in which carbon tetrachloride is employed.
(2a) Combined action of water and gas.
(b) Formation of a foam which extinguishes
by excluding oxygen, (c) By generation of
gas five times heavier than air.
(1) What alterations were made in the
judiciary clauses of the Commonivealth Bill
by Joseph Chamberlain? (2) Upon how
many occasions has a British colony been
attacked by armed force, and how often and
when has such an attack met with success?
—9574.
(1) There were various amendments to
the draft of the Convention when Mr. Cham-
berlain presented it in bill form to the House
of Commons, but the only ones that materi-
ally varied the purport of the Constitution
were an addition to covering Clause 5 reserv-
ing to the Crown the right to grant leave
to appeal to the Privy Council against any
judgment or order of the Commonwealth
High Court, or of the Supreme Court of any
State, and the deletion of Clause 74, which
gave the Commonwealth Parliament power to
limit the right of appeal. After debate a
compromise was arrived at whereby Mr.
Chamberlain withdrew his clause and restored
Clause 74 in a form which permitted no
appeal on a question relating' to the limits
of the constitutional powers of the Common-
wealth or States, save by permission of the
High Court, and providing that any proposed
laws limiting the right of appeal on other
matters must be reserved for approval by the
Crown. (2) Can only deal with modern
history. Canada was invaded by the
U.S.A. on various occasions between 1775
and 1814. The Americans were defeated.
The Transvaal Crown Colony was invaded
by the Boers in 1880, and the territory was
given back to the Boers as part of the terms
of peace. In 1899 the Boers invaded Natal,
were defeated, and lost the Transvaal.
Method of honing razors or pocket-knives?
—9539.
For a razor, lay the blade flat on the
stone and describe a figure eight; then turn
over as in stropping and similarly treat the
opposite side. So on alternately with care
until the razor will split a hair. For a
pocket-knife, hold the blade at an angle of
about five degrees with the stone, and change
so as to give each side an equal amount of
wear. After much sharpening, thin it down
by alternately holding the sides flat on a
grindstone.
(1) Names of trappers of finches and other
birds of the N.T.? (2) Best feed to give
birds?— 9s42.
(1) Birds are not allowed to leave the
N.T. unless consigned to public gardens.
Leslie Witt, of Darwin, has supplied them
on occasion. (2) Canary seed and Hungarian
millet.
(1) Which was the larger Australian
wool clip, that of 1928-29 or that of
1929-30? Number of bales in each?
(2) Did Britain make a huge profit out of
Australian wool during the war? If so,
hoio much? —9446.
(1) 1928-29 clip (largest ever shorn in
Australia), 889,351,4031 b.. equivalent of
2.862,877 bales. In number of bales the
1929-30 clip exceeded the 1928-29 clip by
5000, the wool being packed more lightly,
but its net weight was approximately
18,000,0001 b. less. (2) The.; British Govern-
ment made money out of the purchase of the
war-time clips from Australia, but half the
profits realised on wools not used for mili-
tary purposes were handed back to Austra-
lian growers. Between July, 1921, and
November, 1927, £29,405,026 was distributed
among Australian growers as their share of
the profits. Don’t forget either that the
British Navy saw that the wool safely
reached its destination.
I propose to establish in Sydney an aviary
of native birds of the small brightly-plumaged
type. (1) Best hardy breeding types? (2)
Type of aviary? (3) Type of box-nests?
(4) From whom can I obtain further infor-
mation, apart from dealers? —9452.
(1) Diamond sparrows, zebra finches, nut-
meg-finches and redhead finches. (2) Type
depends on situation. It should face north-
east and be protected from the westerly and
southerly winds. Size depends on the number
of birds you propose to purchase; 6ft. square
may be suggested. The roof should be
slanting. On the bottom of the aviary,
which should stand on legs, a movable tray
should be installed. (3) The finches would
build in ordinary wire nests or small cigar-
boxes, with a hole sufficiently large to
allow 7 the birds to gain entrance. The
aviary should contain some shrubs or dead
trees, which are more satisfactory than
perches. (4) Call at Taronga Zoological
Park and have a personal interview with
the secretary.
(1) What amount of N.S.W. Unemploy-
ment Relief tax do I pay on 255. a week and
keep? I draw my ivages in full every six
months. Can my employer, when paying me,
deduct the amount of tax owing, and affix
stamps for same? —9422.
(I) Tax at the rate of 3d. in the £ should
be collected by the employer when payment
is made. The employer is required to keep
a record of payments, to which should be
affixed stamps to the value of the tax col-
lected. (2) Where board arid quarters are
provided the value is taken into account at
£1 per week and the tax paid thereon by the
employee.
How to play quinse? Is it anything like
vingt-un , which I can play? —96lB.
It is a variant of vingt-un, the only essen-
tial difference being that the object is to
make. 15, not 21.
(1) Was the Balfour Note to the U.S.A.
Government suggesting . cancellation of war
debts different in principle from the, recent
proposals published by a section in ■Aus-
tralia? (2) Had the Balfour proposal been
sanctioned would the American and British
taxpayers respectively have had to pay the
amount cancelled? (3) Did, the British Gov-
ernment secure a substantial reduction in the
rate of interest on the war debt to the U.S.A.
and an -extension of the period ' of repay-
ment? (4) By what amount did the reduced
rate benefit the British taxpayer? (5)
What reduction in interest and principal has
Britain granted foreign countries on war
debts? (6)ls Australia’s .war debt to Bri-
tain still bearing its original interest rate?
If not, what reduction has been made? (7)
By how much has Australia reduced her
war debt to Britain?— 9s79. - * -
(1) Britain proposed ,to remit the war
debts of her European allies if released
from her liability to the U.S.A. Austra-
lian repudiationists offer no quid, pro quo.
(2) In effect, yes; but Britain Would have
been a lot better off, . owing to the impos-
sibility of enforcing repayment of loans on
war-ravaged and impoverished Europe. (3)
Yes. The original interest rate was in the
neighborhood .‘of. 5 p.c. Under the funding
agreement Britain pays 3 p.c. for 10 .years
and 3$ p.c. for 52 years, plus . § p.c.. sinking
fund in each case. (4) The annual pay-
ment was reduced’from-close on £50,000.000
to £30,000,000 (rising to about £35,000.000)
per year,-and at the smaller rates redemp-
tion is provided for. (5) The terms upon
which the Italian war debt was funded re-
presented - a substantial writing-off. • At
March 31, 1923, the Italian debt to Britain
was ; stated* as £527.865,000. At March 31.
1929, it- was stated • as £202,500,000, and
there were no large, repayments of capital
in the interim. The French war debt was
funded on terms that considerably reduced
the annual charge. France’s annual pay-
ments on a debt, ' estimated in 1929
at' £722,018,000, commenced at £6,000,000
a' year, which is rising by easy stages
to £10,000.060 a ’ year—.B ; to 1.4 p.c.
on the capital liability. It must be remem-
bered, though, that both France and Italy
Were invaded. (6) The debt is now funded
at 6 p.c., including a sinking fund of a
shade over 1 p.c. Some of the original
loans were at no stated rate of interest.
It has been authoritatively announced in
Britain that a substantial concession was
made. (7) The funded war debt in Lon-
don had been reduced by £11,185,575 up to
June 30 last.
(1) Details of and the total cost to the
people of Australia of all bonuses, etc.,
allowed by Governments or otherwise given
to producers of various commodities? (2)
The cost per head? —9l93.
Wine is the only commodity receiving a
Government bonus on export. The amount
paid in the years from 1924-25 to 1929-30
inclusive was £1,330,444; the average was
81d. per head per annum. The sugar indus-
try is assisted by an embargo on imports.
If Australia, during the years 1924 to 1928
inclusive, had imported sugar duty free at
the price quoted in London, the consumers
would have been saved about £24,000,000,
but over the period 1913 to 1923 inclusive
Australia got its sugar for £42 000.000 less
than if supplies had been imported. There
were about 30,000 persons engaged in the
sugar industry in Australia in 1928-29.
Butter, under the Paterson scheme, is sub-
ject to a bounty of 44d. per pound on ex-
ports, but this is- not a Government bounty,
the money being provided by a levy of lfd.
per pound on all butter produced in the Com-
monwealth. From January 1, 1926, to June
30, 1929, according to an estimate, Austra-
lians have paid .£8,488,000 more for their
butter than if the scheme were not operative,
but the 126,000 people in the dairy industry
have benefited by the advantage given them
in the export market. The fruit-preserving
industry gets a little assistance in a Govern-
ment subsidy on export freight, and £88,236
was paid up to June 30 last. Apart from
export bonuses or subsidies, bounties are paid
or have been paid by the Commonwealth
Goverrfment on shale oil, certain iron and
steel products, sulphur, beef, live cattle, seed
cotton, cotton yarn and cocoa and coffee
beans produced in New Guinea or- Papua.
The amount paid on these accounts from
1924-25 to 1928-29 inclusive was £1,735,934.
The approximate cost of all Government
bonuses and bounties during .the period
1924-25 to 1928-29 inclusive (excluding
effects of butter bonus and sugar embargo)
was approximately 2s. per head per annum.
Brief Answers.
R.W.: Except for a brief reference in
Nichter’s .“Catalogue of Engraved Gems,” we cannot
trace it. ' Try some of the manufacturing jewellers.
. ...F.W.: State or Federal tax is not payable on
either. ... J.M.C.: Sheet Anchor won the Melbourne
Cup in 1885 V.W.: Awaba (“plain surface’’),
Graman (“big plain”), Minimine (“clear country”),
Warrangesda (“camp on flat country”), Woolandoou
(“a little plain”)... .A.G.W.: Mineral Earths, Ltd.,
264 Botany-road, Alexandria. .. .E.W.: There are
no vacancies in the N.S.W. Police Force, and a long
time would elapse before an applicant who has
passed the adriiission tests would be called up... -
A.H.: Write Under-Secretary Agriculture Dept.,
Brisbane, for leaflet “Contagious Abortion”... ■
M.L.T.: (1) Same method as for sheep. (2)
At 14 months. Two years is preferable. (3)
Five months ...■ .M.K.: A fixative for charcoal
and soft-pencil drawings can be made by adding
white shellac to methylated spirits. A prepared
fixative ' can be bought from leading stationers at
9d. per bottle; spray diffusers, same price. .. .
A.L.: Haven’t heard of it being used for that
purpose... .R.H.: In order to obtain a patent :n
Russia persons residing outside the country must
appoint a resident representative. A summary of
the Russian patent laws Will, be found in “The Soviet
Union Year Book,” available at most public libraries.
Any patent attorney could deal with the matter.
. ...W.N.T.: George Arliss was born in London,
April 10, 1868. He did not visit America till 1901,
when he toured as a member of Mrs. Patrick Camp-
bell's company... .J.H.T.: W. C. Penfold and Co.,
88 Pitt-street," Sydney... .A.F.M.: Useless for an un-
experienced commercial artist to come to Sydney
looking for a job. Even those at the top of the
ladder are finding it hard to hold 0n....
M. : Write Agriculture Departments at Hobart and
Wellington (M.L.) S.H.T.: (1) To the Editor.
(2) Typed copy with plenty of space between the
lines and wide margins is preferred. . . .A.A.S.: In
1929: C.E., 628; R.C., 654 ; Presbyterian, 147;
■ Methodist, 51 ; Other Christian, 48 ; Hebrew, 6 ;
all other, 113 P. 11.5.: There is no generally-
accepted medical evidence that the operation is a
success in human beings. You can’t rejuvenate heart
and arteries, yet. Advise you to forget about it. .. .
O.H.S. : (1) Potted ■or concentrated fish, including
fish extracts and caviare: Imports, 1927-28 —
Commonwealth, £148,424; Vic., £26,239. 1928-
29—Commonwealth, .’£158,797 ; Vic., £22,925,
1929-30 figures, not yet available. .. .A.Q.: Bottles
cost: J-pint. size; Is. 6d. per doz; 4-pint, 2s. 3d. per
doz.; 1-pint, 3s: per doz.’. . . .M.W.Q.: Depends upon
nature of ;the tuition, age of pupil and profession he
w-ishea to enter. Send more particulars. ... J.P.:
N. Unemployment Relief Tax is collected from
the employee when he or she is paid. If paid
quarterly, the amount will be, collected at the end
of- each quarter on the actual money paid plus the
value of board and lodging, and not on the amount
which would be payable each week... .A.H.N.: (1)
.and (4)-See “The Australian and N.Z. Writers’ and
Artists’ Year Book” (2s. 6d.). (2) Best to send
short . stories direct. (3) Local copyright affords
protection in Great Britain,, but not in America. . . .
Novice: .You can’t •do better than follow the old
biliards , rule, ' “Keep your eye on the object ball”
—in this case the jack. . . .H.S.M.: (1) Douche the
.nose, with salt, water by means , of a, boat-shaped
douche. Don’t smoke., (2) A ridiculous superstition.
.. . .W. 0.8.: It is an Arabic place-name. .. .L.M.:
(1) and ‘(2) . It has been prohibited entry into Aus-
tralia, by the- Customs/ Department. .England and
America ’have also. barred it. (3) Can’t advise on
that point, but smuggled copies- now command large
prices... .G.J.L.:. Unwise for a novice to seek
a living- as .a ’ fisherman. Years of experience are
necessary. Go into .partnership with an expert and
learn the trade:... A.R.L.u Write to the shipping cos.
.. . .H.0.C.L.: . (1) and (2) The matter is one for
settlement between you' and your bankers. Owing
to shortage : of funds in London, banks are rationing
their .customers, and the purpose for which the money
is required naturally has considerable bearing on the
amount : granted. (3) See the shipping co
. J.W.11.: If you failed to register the dog by the date
. fixed you are liable to a penalty. Place the’ facts
before the Court. .. .L.K.: Send it to the Society for
Psychical Research, 31 Tavistock-square, London,
W.C.I. . C.8.K.: Whitelaw’s “Surveying as Prac-
tised by Civil Engineers and Surveyors,” Park’s
“Theodolite Surveying,” Gillespie’s “A Treatise on
Land Surveying” and Lupton’s “A Practical Treatise
on Mine Surveying” . , r . .A.K.: The only .railway con-
sidered by the .Queensland Parliament within the
last five years was the Mount Isa line,
54 miles, now completed and open for traffic. No
other proposals are under consideration. .. .H.G.J.:
(1) Never heard of it. (2) There is a treatment by
injection given for chronic rheumatism and arthritis.
Results, vary. .. .C.8.J.: Scores of books on propor-
tional representation have been published and most
public libraries contain at least half a dozen. E.
B. Harkness, Chief Secretary’s Department, Macquarie-
street, Sydney, could let you have some literature on
the subject J. J.: The Federal Government con-
tributed £60,000 to the Japanese earthquake, fund
in 1923. .. .W.J.H.,: A Hoette, 264 Latrobe-street,
Melbourne, Cl H.H.: (1) and (2) Write N.S.W.
Agricultural Dept, for free pamphlet “Poisoning Green
Timber with Sodium Arsenite.” (3) Make inquiries at
your local paintshop. (4) Yongala foundered between
Mac-kay and Townsville, March 24, 1911. All lives
(140) were lost. Write Adelaide Steamship Co., Currie-
street, Adelaide, for passenger list. .. .D.G.: (1) Burma
Corporation, 95 Gresham-street, London, E.C.2. (2)
Sam Pearson and Son, 10 Victoria-street, London,
g.W.I R.J.E.: Remove the tick at once and apply
methylated spirits freely. Watch for the slightest sign
of inflammation, and if it develops treat energeticallv
with fomentations and antiseptics G.IL.D.: (1)
China tea is the same in its effect. In moderation
it is harmless. (2) Black coffee, if taken in excess,
has an action on the heart. (3) Difference too small
to worry about. (4) Yes. If he is certified as being
permanently unfit for work he will receive a full
pension, £1 per week. Write Old Age and Invalid
Pensions office, Sydney... .E.D.: (1) Surveying cer-
tificate course at Sydney Technical College. It
extends over two years, preceded in the case of those
students who have not reached Leaving Certificate
standard in maths., English and physics by a pre-
paratory course of two years. (2) No, but the board
allows credit towards their, exam, to those students
who have successfully completed certain subjects
and exams R.D.: Write Mines Dept., Sydney
8.G.8.: (1) Operation is the only way. (2) Not
if it is what is known as “Dupetremn’s Contraction.”
(3) Do not know of any local successes D.J.8.:
It would go to his wife W.L.8.: We know of nc
method of keeping fish-glue moist or fluid when
cold. Mediums which w-ould keep it soft would rob
it of its tenacity G.A.: Write Mrs. G. Farquhar-
son, 10 Brady-street, Croydon (N.S.W.). (2)
Practically none, but an effort is being made tc
establish a market. (3) No settled price. Ask
Mrs. Farquharson, from whom also a book on the
subject can be got for lOd A.F.A.: “Catching
Sharks for Profit,” by T. C. Roughley, obtainable
from Technological Museum, Sydney. Write Shark
Fisheries, Ltd., 17 O’Connell-street, Sydney, and
Marine Industries, Ltd., Port Stephens (N.S.W.)
(Many others mailed.)


An independent investigation shows . . .
3 out of 4 N.S.W. golfers
use Spalding equipment
9k
m
KftO-FUTE
SI
II
1 ~
\v; ’
The “Kro-Flite" Mesh Multi-Dot Golf Ball. In four
high visibility colour markings—green, red, black
and blue, visible at ten yards distance. Also in plain
mesh. Both "Kro-Flites,” 3/6 each.
■
m
| l|':|
Si iliitt ■ : 'iiii
%m . ■mm ■ ■■ - : v-; ' - ; :
s
m-m
' 0 .. . • ■
m mm ■ ■■ ■■" ■. ■< •■: y. % ■
s •• > V
*' 85%
wmtmmmXi
■
' ' ••. -.X -. M
'
i
SS
■ f—ll
•r*. -■;? r. V; '■
:: :
; .
I k ...' l
iMi^
i
:>:
.
■
,
:*£
wftv&Xv.-
.
■
•■■■■■• > :•:•:•
From a lie such as the one shown in the picture above, the ball can be hit a
considerable distance—a fact not realised by many players. It is necessary
to hit about two inches behind the ball with a downward blow. There is a
“Kro-Flite” club for every shot—for this one a “Kro-Flite” No. 19 (Niblic) willl
give the most satisfactory results, just as a “Kro-Flite” ball gives golfing satis-
taction under all conditions.
on top form! When your drives wing
true down the fairway when your
approaches land dead on the green when
your putts click into the tin That’s when
life has a zestful tang! A sparkle!
' Throughout the Commonwealth, golfers have
learned from experience which equipment best
helps their game. 70% of all Australia’s golfers
say “Spalding equipment is the best.”
“Kro-flite” gives better golf with economy
read why
200 yards of tightly stretched machine-wound rub-
ber thread accurately centres “Kro-Flite’s ” semi-
liquid rubber core. That’s why “Kro-Flite” is
perfectly balanced—rolls true on the green. That’s
why it has distance—exceptional carry.
“Kro-Flite’s” mesh markings are designed to
grip the air correctly. That’s why it flies steadily.
Its cover is vulcanized—shock absorbing —resilient.
That’s why “Kro-Flite” is sweet-feeling off the
club - why it lasts longer—halves golf ball costs.
The guillotine can’t cut it. You can’t cut it.
Hit clean easier with “Multi-Dot”
“ Kro-Flite” Mesh Multi-Dot is easier to hit.
Because it looks, larger—mid the dots give a con-
centration point. It’s easier to identify—easier to
find—too. Ask your dealer.
Leading Pros, agree Spalding “Par” is.the longest
driving ball made. Especially designed for Aus-
tralian championship conditions—Price 3/6. The
“ Sunshine”—a high-grade, good playing ball-
gives excellent value. Price 2/6.
Spalding Golf Equipment—from all
professionals and sports stores
Famous for 54 years of world leadership in sport-
ing equipment manufacture. A. G. Spalding &
Bros. (N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd., 352 Kent Street, Sydney.
Spalding matched clubs
lower handicaps.
fd
Complete details of
each set of Registered
“Kro-Flite” clubs are
recorded at the Spald-
ing factory under the
set number. By quot-
ing this number—
clubs can be replaced
or added as desired—
matched up in balance
and swinging weight.
"Kro-Flite” Registered clubs make golf
easier. The experience of many players
has proved that. Because timing—balance
—swinging weight and feel are identical
for every club in a set.
There is no need to play the dangerous
"Spared” shot with Spalding Registered
"Kro-Flites.” There’s no guesswork with
timing and swing. Clubs in a set are
carefully graded. The angle of each club
face means a definite distance for each
club. Balance, swinging weight and
timing are the same for every shot.
"Kro-Flite” clubs match.
Registered "Kro-Flite” irons have heads
of mild English steel. Shock absorbing
—they are consequently sweet-feeling—
never harsh in play. Chromium-plated—
they are rust-proof—easily cleaned—and
need no polishing.
Spalding makes special clubs for ladies
—correct in length—balance—weight.
Indexed "Kro-Flite” irons match in two
groups of swinging weights. Rust-proof
heads. Set of 7, £B/15/-; set of 5,
£6/5/-; single clubs, 25/- each.
The "Crescent”—near "Kro-Flite” per-
fection at a medium price. Woods, 2 5/-
each; Irons, rust-proof—l7/6 each, or
£4/7/6 for a set of five.
The "Thistle,” the finest club made at a
popular price. Woods, 12/6 each; Irons,
10/6 each. Quotations for hickory shafts.
gfd
fr r
rrr
Tr r
The Guillotin e—a
weighted, keen-edged
knife that drops on a golf
ball with all the force
of a powerfully swung
club. In every other ball
ever tested, this knife has
cut a wide gash com-
pletely through the cover.
The worst it has ever done
to a “Kro-Flite” is to dent
it slightly. It can’t cut it.
You can’t cut it.
An unconditional guarantee
We absolutely guarantee replacement of
any “Kro-Flite” ball (whether plain or
Multi-Dot) that is cut through or becomes
unplayable for any cause whatsoever, in
72 holes of play.


CLIFTON GARDENS HOTEL
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Limited).
Sydney's well-known Harbor Hotel
i- v , /Vvv
{Lk
Q QQ
]flQ
0Q
Overlooking Harbor arid Ocean.
QUIET and RESTFUL—
an ideal Winter Home, as
-Warm in Winter as the
South of France. The
Most Sheltered Spot on
the Harbor, with Private
Beach and Amphitheatre
Swimming Baths, Spacious
Grounds and Garage
Accommodation.
TARIFF:
From 4| Guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTER-
NOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes
trip from City by Ferry
or Motor.
RESERVATIONS: Y 3012 (4 lines).
New Zealand}?
Greatest Delicacy-
i
I
*
•—and fast becoming Australia’s. Tiny inch-long fish,
unique in flavour, whitebait is found only in sparkling
New Zealand streams, then for but three months of the
year.
You, however, can have it the year round, with all its
original freshness and flavour, for it is canned on the
banks of the rivers the same day as it is caught.
Try it. St. George Canned Whitebait will give you a
new meaning for the word “delicious.”
IRVINE AND STEVENSON'S
ST. GEORGE COMPANY, Ltd
Dunedin New Zealand
ST. GEORGE Delicacies
SMOKE-OH !
“Sob stuff no longer attracts Sydney film patrons.”
Most of them are now too busy looking
for job stuff.
* ¥
News item from North Sydney:—
Inspired by the success of the latest craze, Mr.
W. M. Hughes has decided to change the name of his
following to the Midget Party.
* *
“The N.S.W. police force is undermanned.” —Police
Chief Childs.
The depression has come to this, that we
haven’t even a copper to spare.
NEW DEFINITIONS.
Cracking Hardy: —Making a noise like a
Nationalist. Giving imitation of Mr. Bavin.
(Also to crack hardy, i.e., to make such state-
THE CAT AND THE MOUSE.
HE: “I wonder if I could come and see you
some, evening when your husband’s at
home.”
SHE: “So sorry! He’s never at home except
when I’m out.”
ments as “I will regain my seat at the next
elections” ; “I am glad to be relieved of the
cares of office”; “It was a moral victory.”)
Amateur: —One who makes large annual
income out of game.
"Pro. (term of opprobrium) : —One who
makes small weekly wage out of game.
Amateur Status:—Valuable commercial
asset which may be lost by amateur (see
above) who plays with pro. (see above)
unless amateur is such a profitable gate
attraction that game cannot afford to lose
1,1 Ladies and Gentlemen: —Frequenters of
political meetings who throw blue metal at
candidates. Patriots who hit candidates
from behind with bottles, loaded socks, sand-
bags, etc. Sticklers for etiquette who address
opponents as “curs and mongrels.” .
Nothingness: —Condition or state of being
member of Australian party.
“This man has not tasted liquor for three months,
now and if offered a glass of beer he wouldn’t
look at it.” — “Grit.”
He’d simply close his eyes in ecstasy and
dash it down.
# *
THE CONVERT WHO IS STILL
A BELIEVER.
Manager, Bank of N. S. Wales.
Dear Sir, —
I learn from the canvasser who persuaded
me to vote Labor- that Mr. Lang will begin
saving the State this week. Unemployment
will disappear, wages rise, money become
plentiful. “Industry” (to quote a phrase
used more than once by my new member in
his campaign) “will bourgeon a.s the green
bay-tree, and the cornucopia of Agriculture,
our, groat and glorious country’s mainstay,
vail be filled, aye, even unto overflowing.”
You will remember that before the capi-
talist-created depression my 3000 8.L.0.8.
shares which you hold, and which are now
valued at Bid. apiece, were worth £4500.
The conditions prevalent m
1927 having been restored, I pro-
pose to draw against my shares
as before. An overdraft of, say,
as a preliminary, £3OO would be
acceptable to meet current
needs. Thanking you in anti-
cipation.—Your faithfully, A.
B. Mugge.
Ibrahim Levinski,
Potts Point.
Dear Mr. Levinski, —
I regret that a reputable land-
lord and 100 per cent. Aussie
such as yourself should have
seen fit to writ me for £176 10s.
arrears of rent. Only a few
minutes before your process-
server arrived I had written to
my bank manager intimating
that,, the depression having been
ended by the providential return
of Comrade Lang, I proposed to
avail myself of an overdraft, as
in 1927. Please find enclosed
cheque for amount owing, to-
gether with notification termina-
ting my tenancy as from the
end of the month. I am moving
to more expensive quarters. —
Yours faithfully, A. B. Mugge.
Managing Director,
Glumm and Gumboyle.
Sir,— . .
I beg to resign my position in your firm
since it is no longer necessary for me to
work. In view of the changed political cir-
cumstances I have decided to realise my
capital and invest it in the pony-racing in-
dustry. The Government’s wise decision to
pay every man who works a 30-hour week
on a 48-hour wage-basis will inevitably
release hordes of care-free, affluent toilers to
participate in our great national sport as
in the happy past, with beneficial effects on
dividends. Members of my local Labor
League expect me to get at least 30 per cent,
for my money in future. —Yours faithfully,
A. B. Mugge.
T. R. Bavin, K.C.,
Phillip-street.
Dear Mr. Bavin, —
My name is doubtless unknown to you.
Suffice it to say that I helped to defeat your
Government on the glorious 25th. However,
if there is one thing I flatter myself on
being it is a good winner. When I see an
opponent down and out it is my nature to
lift him up again. This unsolicited com-
mnication is to intimate that if I am at
ny time involved in litigation my solicitors
dll be asked to brief you where possible, and
aat should you be in actual want following
n the strangling of the Capitalistic Octopus
y our champion, Comrade Lang, an appeal
ir financial assistance will not be received
nresponsively by—Yours in sympathy,
l. B. Mugge. d,
♦
PRE-EMINENT.
“Ah, he’s the vice-president f Tell me, is
he a good vice-president?”
“Oh, a VERY good vice-president! In fact, the most vicious president we’ve had for
years!”
POSITION VACANT.
“Damifino what to do,” remarked King
George, unconsciously murdering his own
English in his perturbation. "It's about
the new Aussie Governor-General. Look at
the newspaper suggestions. I ask you. No
unanimity whatsoever!”
The Family examined the cuttings with
gloomy faces.
The “S. M. Herald” had nominated Sir
Otto Niemeyer, and the “Melbourne Herald’
had countered with Theodore Fink, while
the “Labor Daily” had put up
Jock Garden, The “Sun Pic-
torial” seemed torn between
the winner of its Midget Goif
Championship and the chief
beltman of the Bondi Surf
Club. The “Guardian” made
it clear that the only choice
acceptable to an enlightened
democracy would be the
father of the winner of its
marbles championship. Other
fancies were: “Referee,”
Jimmy Pike ; “Freeman’s Jour-
nal,” Archbishop Mannix;
“Italo-Australiano,” Musso-
lini; “Talkie Topics,” Stuart
Doyle; and “The Tout,” Jack
Wren.
The worried monarch turned
to the Prince of Wales.
“There’s nothing else for it,
he said; “you’ll have to take
on the job.” The Prince shook
his head. “I’m not sporting
enough,” he objected. “I could
stand the big meetings, but
their daily pony meetings
would kill me—and then
there’s the dogs. No. Count
me out.”
“It’s no good looking at
me,” interposed the Duke.
“Betty’s seen their Sunday
papers. The society stuff I
mean. The Doings of the
Burwood Younger Set, and the
Balmain Bright Young Things,
and so on. She doesn’t feel she
could live up to it.”
The King sighed. “Well,
that’s that,” he said. “There’s
nothing else for it but to
QtlpbT'tltlP *
The advt. as finally sent to
the Royal printers ran: —
Australian Governor-
General.
Reasonably sober geiit. wanted for above
position. Salary, £lO,OOO p.a. with free
housing, subject to unemployment tax of 3d.
in £. Successful applicant will be required
to associate freely with politicians and with
those who get publicity by hogging charitable
movements. .Attendance at race-meetings
compulsory, but not so at two-up games or
other gambles. Application forms obtainable
at all police stations and Trades Halls.
Write, giving full particulars of age, matri-
monial state and previous experience, if
any to the undersigned. Personal canvass of
Palace servants will immediately disqualify*
—George R. I.
N. 8.: Every application must be accom-
panied by postal note or money order tor
ss. 6d. as proof of bona fldcs.
Angus O’Cohen.
* *
What in the mischief will Lang now find
for idle hands to do?
THE ATHLETE’S REWARD.
Kid Grabham’s eyes glowed with boyish
pride as the Governor handed him the deeds
of Wullah-Wullah, Bellevue Hill. “It only
has 20 rooms,” said his Excellency apolo-
getically, “and the grounds cover a bare five
acres, but such as it is. Kid (if I may so
address you), such as it is, take it with
a great nation’s loving gratitude.”
The rafters of the Sydney Town Hall rang
with applause, but there was more to come.
RESIGNED.
“I’m gonna (hic) kill you.”
“Wha (hic) for?”
“Because you look like me.”
"Do (hic) I look like you?”
“Fellas say so.”
“All (hic) right Get busy.”
“The representative of Super-Limousines
Inc.,” proceeded the King’s representative,
“has asked me to say that his company, out of
admiration for your splendid achievements,
are- delivering to your address to-morrow
one of their £3500 cars, in the left-hand
pocket of which you will find a cheque for
£5OOO, and an order entitling you to free
petrol for life.” (Deafening cheers.)
And so Kid Grabham, the first Midget
golfer to go round every underground links
between Redfern and the Circular Quay in
par figures, came into his financial own.
IN MEMORIAM.
“In memory of poets who have written of the
wattle, members of the Australian Literature Society
will plant trees on Saturday afternoon at Wattle
Park.” — “Argus.”
The lorries came by thousands; they were
parked as close as flies;
'The mounds of treelets mounted till they
almost touched the skies;
The members’ spades flashed brightly as they
rent and tore the ground;
And the startled hills threw back all day
the unaccustomed sound.
At eve the toilers downed their tools and
uonned their coats with pride,
While their president surveyed a newly-tim-
bered countryside.
“We’ve put five million in,” he said, “and
that will have to do;
Though at one tree per poet it is doubtless
far too few!”
p.
WEIGHTS AND DATES.
“Take home a dated record of your weight,”
He read aloud from over a machine,
And plunged a hand into his pocket straight
Where evidently something should have
been.
Only desisting to ejaculate
“What was the time I had to meet
Pauline?
1 wrote it down and put the slip between
These letters. Now it’s gone, as sure as
Fate.
It must have fluttered at the oowlmg-
green, .
Out of my pocket!” “Well, then,’ said Ins
mate,
“Another time, to spare yourself a scene.
Take home a weighted record of your date.”
H.


ill
rV 1
; Si:S
W.
~s,
I ;
Kirby, Beard & Co., Ltd.,
Birmingham, London,
Redditch and Paris.
a
m
Whatever the growth, there’s
no beard that can resist a
KIRBY BEARD RAZOR
BLADE. Made of a special
steel, with extra
keen edges that
last and give a
wonderfully clean,
unequalled shave.
From Stores, Chemists
and Hairdressers.
Australian Agent:
H. E. UTTLEY, Margaret House,
282 George Street, Sydney.
Be sure you ask for
A
SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
w)
THE BOY AND HIS PONY
Holiday time is not far off now, and many a
boy is looking forward to happy days astride
his pet pony.
SADDLES FOR CHILDREN
No. 117. CHILD’S RIDING PAD, for small children. Made of leather
lined with felt. It has a hold-on strap on head, and fitted with girth,
surcingle, leathers and stirrups.
Price 52/6. Safety Clogs 12/6 extra.
No. 82d. BOY'S SADDLE; is a really good saddle, with serpentine kneepads,
extended facings to panel, and fitted with girth, leathers and stirrups.
Price £6/17/6
No. 126 d. BOY’S SADDLE at £4/10/-, and No. 26d. at £5/10/-, are also very
good value.
BOYS’ SADDLECLOTHS, 10/6, 7/6. BOYS’ SPURS, 4/6 pr. BOYS’ WHIPS,
5/6, 6/-. PONY BRIDLES, single rein, with bit, 13/9; double rein, with bit,
17/6. STOCKWHIPS, for boys 6 to 7 yrs., 4/6, 5/6; 8 to 9 yrs., 6/-, 7/6.
Post or freight extra unless your order is over £3 in N.S.W.
WRITE FOR OUR SADDLERY CATALOGUE.
OUR POPULAR XMAS TOY CATALOGUE WILL BE OUT SHORTLY, SO
SEND US YOUR NAME RIGHT AWAY FOR A COPY.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 George St.,
Sydney.
AM) BEAUTY
-WITH ENO
\ZZ.
/
#
»# <,
Nothing makes you so
vivid, so much worth
looking at, as that in-
ner radiance of perfect
health* It sparkles in your
eyes* Sets fresh roses blos-
soming in your cheeks* All
the creams and powders
in the world won’t do as
much for your looks as the
morning glass of Eno* For
Eno sees to that important
duty of inner cleanliness*
Taken first thing every
morning just a dash
in a glass of water
Eno’s “Fruit Salt” retains
enough fluid in the food
canal to ensure punctual
and complete dismissal of
poisonous waste* And
though it acts so surely and
beneficently, Eno does
nothing that nature herself
would not approve* Take
a bottle home and begin
from tomorrow this golden
rule of healthy living
and beauty*
*2) he words Sno and r,< tfrwt Salt ”
are registered trade marks.
Sales Agents:
c&he ( 3. ffiitchie
& Go. £td., Sydney, cN.S C W.
BIO'S
nun sMi
0


A VERY POWERFUL AND EASY-
RUNNING WINDMILL.
■
&f>e
Billabong
Send for our Windmill Catalogue and learn
all about the encased-gear Billabong
Windmill. Its outstanding superiority as a
consistent worker appeals to the practical
farmer, and the great strength of every part
ensures a lifetime of service.
The extra sensitive ball-bearing bedplate of
the Billabong provides for quick adjustment
to changing winds.
A Wonderful Pump Valve.
We would draw special attention to page
22 of the Catalogue. It deals with Our New
(Patented) Plunger Valve which enables any
windmill to make more use of light breezes
and pump fully 50 per cent, more water.
The Catalogue is Post Free on Request.
g
-V/
m
ft";
tS'S
me.
pm*Y'
Billabongo
1 mililimitu imiM
mgt
i..4sat
m
rm-ft
WmtM
*i' ' '
If,fp *fc/{
•*•*■
.-? zcji ... j . wife® -
>•
-rr'£f /"/
, <• •? ‘j?\^§Mßv^gy»w««» y *^i
JI- < '
. /■-?~jy>‘|gffl|y-T^wec
W^fMrn
Immmm
f. hb
m
Jggßj
W*a3EW»
ijnimiiiiimnii
mimiiiiimiiQ
iJOHN|
niiiimiiiimmiii
&SONI
imimmiiiiumio
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
32 4-3 30 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
aggss,
UND£ R
THE most difficult
jobs are made
easy—and the job
you thought was a
big problem is quickly
and easily worked
out by following
directions given in the
book under the fol-
lowing headings:—■
Tools, Materials,
Inside Work,
Outside Work,
Calcimining,
Paper Hanging,
Floor Finishing,
Wood Finishing.
PRICE:
1216
i
Post Free.
Contains over 300 pages of the best kind of practical information——easy o
read and understand. Scattered throughout the book are plenty o 1 ustra
tions. Printed on standard paper, and strongly bound for long use.
It is not only an encyclopaedia, but a simple, orderly and progressive outline
of the complete information needed to accomplish each class of work.
%
MAYES’ AUSTRALIAN
Builders and Contractors
Price Book.
NINTH EDITION.
Price 15/-. Posted 15/9.
Right up to date.
Invaluable for Shire Engineers, Architects
and Property Owners.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO.. LTD.,
Technical Book Dept.,
Market & Castlereagh Streets, Sydney.
THAT RHEUMATISM
RID YOURSELF OF THE TERRIBLE
PAIN THIS SIMPLE, EASY WAY
Rubbing does not always ease pain. Doctors will tell you
that massage or rubbing, wrongly applied, may prove seriously
harmful. How many thousands of sufferers from swollen,
painful joints and aching muscles know only too well the
waste of time and money spent in rubbing ointments into the
skin ? You must realise that chronic pains in the back, limbs
or joints are caused by poisons in the blood which irritate the
nerves. You might just as well polish the stove to cure a
smoky chimney as to rub the outside of the body to cure a
deep-seated, internal blood trouble which starts at the kidneys.
HOW TO END YOUR PAIN
QUICKLY AND FOR EVER
Go to your chemist —ask for a supply of De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills. You can ask him how good the prescription
is from which this remedy is made. He knows and can advise
you. Take two De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills at night,
one before mealtimes. In twenty-four hours you will see and
know they are doing you good, and if you will only persevere
you will obtain complete relief. Whilst De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills will, from the very first dose, help you, it is only
fair to us that you should give them a REGULAR day-by-day
trial. For over forty years they have been curing chronic
sufferers, many bed-ridden, many in agony for years. There
is no secret about this successful remedy, but there is a
definite guarantee. These two facts, which have made De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills famous the world over, will prevent
you accepting any substitute.
'li L J i hi/ I/Z////V/^A/y%'y
o^\xNvv\nXv\\w\Av\v\vVv\\ I! 1 j ill // ii////s//////syss%/s>^.
DcWITTS
Hi
'"S'
iW
An Honest
and Reliable Remedy
There is no mystery about De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills—it is a
straightforward remedy which your
chemist can honestly recommend to you.
Purchase from him a 3/6 bottle take the
pills according to the instructions. Per-
severe and you will be cured to stay cured.
Do not be put off with any substitute.
If you want health, ask for and see you
get De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills
—the remedy with the guarantee.
FOLLOW THE EXAMPLE OF
THIS ONE-TIME SUFFERER
Writing from 132, Layton Street,
Camperdown, N.S. IV., Mrs. Newman
says:—“A friend gave me a sample of
De Witt’s Pills and they did my Rheu-
matism so much good that I got a full-
size bottle from the chemist winch
proved sufficient to banish the pain that
had tortured me for many years.”
De WITT’S PILLS
are invaluable in all cases of
RHEUMATISM
WEAK KIDNEYS
JOINT PAINS
LUMBAGO
SCIATICA
BACKACHE
CYSTITIS
GRAVEL
STONE
NEURITIS
and all
Kidney and Bladder Troubles


k.
a
..KrA T .,,y.
tit THE HAftr^
fdg
fd
m
&
With a "CYMA” watch punctuality
is never an effort—it becomes a habit
—because a "CYMA” is on time all
the time.
These days when “time is life” was
never more applicable to every-day
affairs, men and women expect
punctuality in both business and
social life.
A "CYMA” watch is a necessity. It imparts to
its wearer that self-confidence of one who is
always on time—and more than that, a
"CYMA” watch is guaranteed by its designers
as a timepiece which master-makers look upon
as the criterion of the horological art. Also, all
"CYMA” parts are interchangeable, and re-
pairs in case of accident can be effected with
the minimum of delay.
As a gift or as a piece of personal jewellery,
a "CYMA” is always correct.
At all good Jewellers «
Qtor Id Qumous
CYMA
WATCH E S
DONT FLIRT! STICKTO
....
Wsm
■PR
CRAIG &AITKEN
654 GEORGE SISYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS FOR CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTORY.
POVERTY
POINT
“Cfiuboy” : The management of Melbourne
Princess recently advertised for the oldest
Ford in the State, to be used in the produc-
tion of the film version of “Whoopee.” The
winner was an elderly lady who arrived in
the rain from Werribee seated on a box
strapped to a bodyless vehicle and holding
an umbrella over her head.
“L. de It.” : A remark which is innocent
enough under ordinary circumstances may
acquire sinister significance when uttered iii
the environment of vaudeville. In replying
for Nellie Stewart at the portrait-presenting
in Melbourne Tivoli, Norman Campbell, her
manager for so many years, indulged in some
reminiscences, in the course of which he
remarked that the company, in a hurried
tour of Maoriland towns, was “out of one
bed in the morning and into another in the
evening.” A titter started it, and for half
a minute the whole house rocked.
“Cine Ma”: I am unable to agree with
“J.D.” (B. 15/10/’3O) that as a result of the
talkies the 15-year-old Australian has more
real culture than most middle-aged people
before the war, and that the news reels he
currently yawns over are of inestimable
value educationally. I have never seen a
. news reel yet which was of any educational
value whatever. Education is only of value
when it encourages independent thinking.
The news reels —in fact, the entire pro-
gramme of movie entertainment —merely
confirm John Citizen in his prejudices.
Watching statesmen getting out of carriages,
dhobis washing clothes on the banks of the
Irrawaddy and American political bores
mouthing the same platitudes as Australian
political bores do isn’t educational in any
real sense.
“Thersites”: In regard to the relative
comfort of cinema and theatre. A year ago
in London I paid ss. 9d. for a comfortless,
drugget-covered seat in the back stalls of
the Ambassadors to see “Rope.” The cur-
tain rose eight minutes after advertised time.
First act played for 45 minutes, second 27,
third 20. Prolonged intervals dragged out
to the orthodox duration. No music—not
even a gramophone—was provided. Yet the
play, due to the superb acting of Ernest
Milton, was being done for the 94th time.
The same evening I went to the famous old
“Pav.,” which had gone over to the talkies.
For 3s. 6d. I had a sumptuously upholstered
armchair seat, and an orchestra of 36 played
during the waits. No wonder that only
plays of exceptional luck or merit can live
against the pitchers.
“W.” : Maoriland has not yet produced a
pianist who has reached front rank, but
it has a, very promising aspirant in the field
in Thelma Willoughby, a Wellington girl,
now studying at the R.A.M. in London under
Yorke Bowen. Sir Henry Wood thinks so
highly of her gifts that he made her the
soloist in a performance of the “Emperor”
concerto by the British Broadcasting Cor-
poration’s orchestra, which he conducts, the
Queen’s Hall orchestra being no longer in
existence.
“C. Ma”: Holt, Timing’s offsider, is off
to Hollywood to look for a producer for
the new Australian talkie* enterprise, the
head taipan not being able to find the leisure.
If there is anything in the statement (B.
22/10/’3O) that the director will be an Aus-
tralian, then I wager that he will be Claude
Flemming. Flemming is the only Australian
in Hollywood with. a thorough inside know-
ledge of the talkie industry. He arrived
there as it was beginning, so that he was
uncorrupted with the conventions of the
silent film from which most producers find
it so hard to rid themselves.
“Craiser”: Touching theatrical supersti-
tions (B. 22/10/’3O). I was backstage in
a Melbourne dressing-room recently talking
to an actress who is an ex-university gradu-
ate and has a degree in psychology. She
said she was quite immune from these de-
praved delusions. She walked under ladders,
sat down 13 to supper, wore green, liked
peacocks’ feathers, loved opals, didn’t worry
about black cats either way, and was in-
different to white horses. Then she whistled
absent-mindedly. I got up to go, but looked
back as I departed. She was solemnly per-
forming the appropriate exorcism for whist-
ling in a dressing-room—turning round three
times widdershins.
“Craiser”: Numerous attempts, all ill-
fated, have been made in Australia to revive
“East Lynne” in the hope of attracting
melodrama addicts away from the movies.
The Fox Corporation now proposes to re-
taliate in kind by putting Lady Isabel,
Cornelia Carlyle, Little Willie and the rest
of them into a talkie. Ann Harding, Conrad
Nagel and Clive Brook will interpret a
modernised version of the ancient bromide.
‘Cauboy”: Mentioned in a recent Mel-
bourne “Herald” that M. P. Greenwood
Adams, popularly known as “Storky,” is still
stumping America lecturing on Australia.
Eighteen years ago “Storky” opened a show
of Irish films in Ipswich (Q.) Town Hall.
It. contained many a heart-throb for the
exiles of Erin, and one of the most touching
items was a box of soil marked “real old
Irish sod”, which .stood in the vestibule.
Patrons with tears in their eyes used sur-
reptitiously to fill cocoa-tins at the fount,
and “Storky” used equally surreptitiously
to replenish it next morning from the back
yard.
“C.R.”: When Nellie Stewart was pre-
sented with her portrait at Melbourne Tivoli
the other night old hands recalled that 50
years previously the family opened at St.
George’s Hall on the opposite side of the
street in “Pinafore.” Mr. Stewart was
Joseph Porter, Richard, jun., was Captain
Corcoran, Maggie was Little Buttercup and
Nell took the tenor rdle of Ralph Rackshaw.
The part of Josephine was taken by half-
sister Docy, now Mme. Chambosier. She is
82, and, unknown to the management, was
sitting in the circle when Nellie’s portrait
was handed over.
The Palette
S.T.S.”: The three bronze figures—
student, farmer and maiden—who will hear
the call of duty on the National War Mem-
orial in Adelaide are rapidly taking shape.
Contrary to former custom, they are locally
made. S.A. architect Laybourne Smith pre-
pared the design; Rayner Hoff, of Sydney,
modelled the. figures to full size; and the
A. W. Dobbie Co., of Adelaide, is casting
them.
Colin Colahan prefaced his show at S.A.
Society of Arts with an hour’s entertaining
talk, in which he stressed the difference
between what you see and the impression
that it makes on you; also the technique of
rendering three-dimensional Nature on a sur
face that obviously has only two. Damning
the whole Royal Academy without even faint
praise, he brought Old Masters out of a lan-
tern and dashed off a few samples on the
spot. Other speakers were Stanley Skipper,
brother of The Bulletin’s “M.G.S.,” and
Percy Reason, who has helped to navigate the
Colahan caravan from Melbourne to Adel-
aide. Colahan’s exhibition is delightful in its
versatility. The nudes are conscientious. The
landscapes, on the other hand, have a slightly
unfinished air—doubtless on the aforesaid
impression principle—but are masterly when
seen not too close. Brass bowls and such
things overcome difficulties of light and refrac-
tion with real care ; and softer fabrics and
colors are the best of the lot.
“C.Q.”: A photo in a Melbourne illus-
trated daily of an unfinished commissioned
statue by Paul Montford depicts Adam Lind-
say Gordon sitting in a chair in the alto-
gether. If it is the intention of the .sculptor
to clothe the figure before it is exposed to
the rigors of the Victorian climate in the
Treasury Gardens, the survival of a very
old artistic fashion is revealed. I remem-
ber 25 years ago in Julian Ashton’s studio
turning up a portrait of a politician that
veteran had left uncompleted, and it was
in the same state of nudity. Presumably
the politician didn’t sit in that condition.
The artist had merely painted the body as
he imagined it would be underneath the
ciothes, intending to put the clothes on after-
wards. The famous Slade School in London
wont even further, setting students to draw
the skeleton before they progressed to the
body, clothed or unclothed. Some professors
insisted on their pupils knowing the names
of the principal bones and muscles. The
French Impressionists showed up these
absurdities of the academies 100 years ago,
but news travels slowly in the art world.
“F.S.” : Painters in Melbourne are having
a hard struggle at the moment and they are
getting little assistance from Streeton, who
criticises pictures as a side-line for the
“Argus.” If a leading Collins-street special-
ist suddenly came out with a testimonial to
Chinese herbalists both the faculty and the
intelligent public would be pained and
shocked; but this is what critic Streeton
said without protect about a show of Euro-
pean photos at the Little Gallery by Miss
Pcgg Clarke: —
As an exhibition of art the standard maintained is
much more artistic, and of a much higher average
of quality, than that of most of our shows of paint-
ing. The study required for the production of these
prints must have been unusual. Many are already
sold, and the exhibition should be visited by art
students and- all who are interested in art and
general culture.
As one who himself went in for “artistic’’
pnotography and threw it up wnen lie dis-
covered its painful limitations, I confess the
above staggers me. To tell an art student
to go and study Miss Clarke’s performances
with the camera is like advising a pianist
to study the achievements of a landlady’s
daughter on the pianola. The lady has cer-
tainly taken photography as far as it will
go at present, and where Nature has been
particularly complaisant her results are not
especially offensive to the trained eye of
the artist, but the gap . between her know-
ledge of tonal values and that of even a
mediocre painter is considerable. A person
must be blinded by prejudice if he prefers
these low-keyed camera studies, in ' which
the sky as the source of light often appears
as grey paper, to the landscapes of, say,
Arthur Streeton.
The Inky Way
“Bung Hi” : That particular Chinese Gov-
ernment _ which has its headquarters in
Shanghai has a Bureau of Social Affairs,
which has recently turned its attention to
the local press. Analysis has shown that
25.16 p.c. of the matter contained in the
Pong journals is indecent and immoral, and
a recommendation is made that a minimum
space be allowed each publication for sucii
matter. As the bureau considers accounts of
crimes, divorces and suicides “immqral,”
what would it have to say of a section of the
Australian press?
“Rounds” : A bright departure in journal-
ism is the decision of the International Con-
gress of Journalists at Berlin (the A.J.A. is
represented) to establish a “Court of Honor”
before which journalists accused of publishing
copy “unworthy of the profession” may be
cited. Presumably this refers to editors and
sub-editor's, who are responsible for the
appearance of the copy and for the manner
in which the subject matter is treated, as
no one is likely to waste any sympathy on
them . At the same time, the Court’s powers
should be extended to include proprietors and
advertising managers, who are the ultimate
deils ahint the dykes.
“O. McKay M.”: The slump has hit press-
men as hard as most. One result has been
that out-of-work scribes now read the
“Deaths” columns. Within a few hours of
the announcement of the death of a Brisbane
sub-editor the other day telegraphic applica-
tions for the dead man’s desk started to
flood the office. Similarly when death made
a Perth vacancy. Melbourne recently pro-
vided journalism’s first unemployed line-up.
Wirths advertised for a publicity-wallah, and
22 pressmen and three ladies of the Inky
Way turned up in the hope of bagging it—
or a job grooming the zebras.


Bank of New Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital ••••••••• £6,858,113
Reserve Fund and Undivided
Profits 4,1-73,15 b
£11,031,269
The Rank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World. Every description of Banking Business
conducted.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. •. • • • • 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LondoK Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
gfd
' SCHUTE,
BELL&CIu.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
gfd
CONCENTRATE ON
QUEENSLAND.
You can increase the sale of
YOUR goods by building up a mar-
ket in the most responsive, least “de-
pressed” State in the Commonwealth
—QUEENSLAND.
* * * * «
Investigate the possibilities of the
Queensland market NOW by getting
in touch with a representative of
Queensland’s Oldest, Biggest, and
most Influential Newspaper.
3the Brisbane Courier.
Published by :
THE BRISBANE NEWSPAPER
CO., LTD.,
Queen-street, Brisbane. ’Phone 82991.
Sydney Representative: Robert D.
Fisher, 74 Pitt-street. ’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative: L. S.
Marks, The Argus .Bldg., Elizabeth
and Latrobe streets. ’Phone F 3906.
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
NOW- THE WORLD
nr
%
*l*
w*
HON
PP&-1
ovW
V^o
NOW to the real business —seeing the
world! Canada, U.S.A., Europe.
Through bookings and plans made in
advance with the Union Steam Ship
Company give a novel sense of ease and
comfort to overseas travel.
Offices : Sydney and Melbourne.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN & UNION LINES
*
A 1
VS
scr
h
Sunny South Sens
Enchanting Trip to PAPUA via BRIS-
BANE, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS, and
the glorious WHITSUNDAY PASSAGE
inside the renowned Great Barrier Reef.
Smooth Water —Sandy Beaches—T ropica!
Scenery—Volcanic and Coral Islands—Quaint
Native Villages and Customs—Rest, Change
and Variety.
THREE WEEKS’ TOUR.
Fare, £4O to £44, Return.
Apply for Pamphlet No. 52/P to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, _ BRISBANE and
ADELAIDE.
Read
“B.P. Magazine,” richly
illustrated in color.
1/- Copy, All Newsagents.
BANK
OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1811
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
g
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150.000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
588 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable to, and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT Foreign. Bilk Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable -throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon TAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
Hon. J™£ a £ thur ONSLOW, V.D.. M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R- DRYIIVRST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birehin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
throughout Queensland. New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Sri Territory A Q g endes throughout Australia and New Zealand, and alt other parts of
the world.
*ll Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS. —Inspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Huddart ParkerL^'
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice vers .
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily P a P^‘._ en
For lull particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITS
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Sir eat, Sydney.
The rare loveliness
Lake Louise,
y
V:.
N- '» ->
l\ \sS&&££
CANADIAN WPIK
iror*-.^.- S?EAM e
The Worlds'greatest travelsystem
Like all the blue and
green jewels in the
world melted and set in
jade forests and glis-
tening glaciers a
dream picture in reality.
Spicy Alpine air—mag-
nificent Chateau Lake
Louise dancing
swimming climbing—
riding—wonderful mo-
tor roads.
Lake Louise a rare holiday
setting in the Canadian
Rockies reached only via Can-
adian Pacific. Illustrated
booklets on request.
Canadian Pacific,
George Street,
Sydney.
Cu tie lira
TALCUM
It keeps the skin
sweet and whole-
some ** overcomes
perspiration and
is cooling and re-
freshing.
fdg
Soap Is., Oint-
ment Is. and 2s.
Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each
free.
Address:
“R. Towns & 00.,
Sydney, N. S.W.”
Übe
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily,
Published In Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com*
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion" is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to —
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from —
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.


=385
m
sse
Ssfei3S
SSRifiSfll;
ayrw
m
717 Z
\-
SHM
S2i
RICH SOILS PROPERLY FED-
The increasing use of
Sulphate of Ammonia
brings home to those who have never used it, the
all-round importance of Nitrogenous Fertilisers, while to
those who have already experienced its benefits, its
continued use is more than ever necessary. The highest
yields and the greatest acre profits are obtained where
SULPHATE of AMMONIA figures prominently in the
fertiliser programme, and this applies to practically every
form of cultivation, from market gardening to mixed
farming .. . and more recently, to “grassland farming.”
All Fertiliser Manufacturers or their Agents supply
Sulphate of Ammonia.
Literature from
NITROGEN FERTILISERS PROPRIETARY LIMITED
360 Collins Street, Melbourne, or Box 481 A.A., G.P.O. Sydney.
THE PATRIOT
fdg
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
RAYOVAC
Flashlights « Batteries “Radio Tubes
1
fd
Buy the Best
Less Often
There is no economy in
buying inexpensive and
badly made Electric
Torches and Batteries.
The less you pay the
oftener you purchase
the batteries.
Ray-O-VAC Flashlights
and Batteries are made
by one of the oldest
makers of these goods.
They are the best ob-
tainable.
New Rotomatic Switch
absolutely prevents the
light ever being rurned
on accidentally. Ray-o-
VAC is the only flashlight
madewith the Roto-
matic Switch
Your nearesr distributor
will gladly show you the
complete line.
Manufacturer's Representative
W. C. SCHWAB
Box 1821. G.P.0.,
Melbourne, Viet.
FRENCH BATTERY CO.
CHICAGO U.S.A.
v/v
7/
,A*'
»gM » » » l»I
'm
m
Mmsamm
rr~~4 i ij_^?i»lll n; if";:;...!,. n oi 111111 ij
BBHI
This is
Meccano
Week
For every boy who wants Meccano, this is the greatest
week of the year. Dealers everywhere are making
special displays of new models. Go and see for yourself
the finest hobby in the world for boys.
All Meccano parts are miniatures of the corresponding
parts in engineering practice. They are standardised
and interchangeable, and can be used to make hundreds
of different working models. Get a Meccano Outfit to-day!
FREE TO BOYS A new Meccano Book
Write today for this Book. We will send a copy, post free, in return
for the names and addresses of three of your pals.
Prices of
Complete
Meccano
Outfits
from 4/m
to 780/m
MECCANO
Wholesale Agents in Australia:
E. G. PAGE & COMPANY (DEPT. 42)
52 Clarence Street, Sydney (P.O. BOX 1832 K)
MANUFACTURED BY MECCANO LIMITED, LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND
If any illustration in “The Bulletin’’ takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
SHADOW SHOWS.
Patlie s Holiday,” at Sydney Lyceum, is
inspiring chiefly because Edward H. Griffith
the director, apart from having something to
say and clever people to say it with, has
given talkie audiences credit for intelligence
lhere are no cheap effects—no comic men-
seivants, no overdone scenes of luxury or
passion, none of the traditional unrealities
of American society pictures.
Old Seton, father of Julia, who has fallen
in l°ve with Johnny Case on a holiday and
brought him home to be inspected by the
family, happens to be a multi-millionaire
but domestic tyrants of liis type are to be
found iii every walk of life. Julia agrees
with him in his respect for money; Linda
and her brother don’t. Neither does Julia’s
young man. He lias made 40,000 dollars
and he wants to enjoy it while he is young
and as lie thinks best. The only issue in
« whether Johnny Shall become
anothei Seton or take his own line of
country; and there is no hero, heroine or
™“ ai “‘. A U A -' av ,® Reasonably and politely
cordmg to their lights, and the outcome of
the clash of their temperaments and master-
ful wills is inevitable.
•irAm 11 +• Ai ai<Jin§ . (Binda) demonstrates,
amongst other gracious things, how beautiful
the American voice can be when employed bv
J^„ n h ht P ers on. It is only possible to
speak in superlatives of her impersonation
of a warm-hearted girl to whom life has
given everything but companionship. Mary
Astor is equally good as Julia, the sister who
prefers social prestige to love. Julia loses
Johnny, Linda wins him, and his unconven-
tional ways appal their father; yet nothing
of an unworthy nature is said by any of
them,, which is supremely right in view of
the kind of people they are. Apart from the
® tar ® already named, William Holden, as
the father; E. Everett Horton, as one of
Landas understanding friends; and Robert
Ames (Johnny) stand out. But only bv
reason of the size of their parts. The cast
has. been hand-picked; it is a chain of talent
without one weak link.
# * %
Sydney Prince Edward Theatre’s “With
Byrd at the South Pole” has more educa-
tional but rather less entertainment value
than the Mawson film, which ran for so
tong at the Lyceum. Byrd’s methods
lesemble those of a first-class fighting officer
before a raid. Nothing is left to chance,
stores sufficient to ration the party for years
are stacked where they can be easily reached.
A village— Little America”—is built with
tall wireless masts and hangars complete. A
Scouting party is sent ahead, when all is
ready, to observe the enemy’s movements—tin 11
enemy being, of course, the inimical and
tieacherous weather. When zero hour comes
you feel that the Pole has no more chance
of remaining inviolate than a German
trench-garrison of 70 or 80 bombardment-
cowed men had of resisting the onslaught of
three times as many picked raiders. Still,
it is thrilling to see Byrd open the ’plane
window and drop his national flag on to the
waste .of snow which is the South Pole.
Iliere is no moment to compare with it for
drama in the Australian picture.
The scenic effects are as glorious as those
registered by Hurley, but the wild-life shots
are less numerous and interesting. One gets
an idea that Byrd’s photographers don't
love the inquisitively friendly inhabitants of
the Arctic regions as Hurley does. By way
or compensation for the comparative shortage
of penguin,. seal and such-like studies the
expeditionaries, from the Admiral downwards,
are accomplished movie-actors. They are
not too proud to smile; Mawson and liis
colleagues, were almost morosely camera-shy.
Ihe film is silent, except for a preliminary
lecturette by Byrd and a poorly-articulated
talk by somebody else towards the end.
* * #
Melb. Auditorium has opened again with
two American films and “This Is Australia,”
the first talkie produced by .'the Common-
wealth Government, outside, of course, the
60-odd sessions of the Federal Parliament.
The vocal side consists of a synchronised
description by a gentleman with a very clear
voice and an occasional touch of dry wit.
The picture is a travelogue beginning in
Perth and finishing up in North Queens-
land, and 5000 miles are covered in a quar-
ter of an hour. The time could have been
longer, though it could hardly have been
better spent, none of the shots being unduly
lingered over. There is lack of dramatic
interest in it, which militates against its
finding a market abroad. Canberra is hastily
dismissed as if the producers were ashamed
of the place.
* * *
“Hold Everything,” at Sydney State, has
a typical revue title—that is, a completely
meaningless one. "Ham and Eggs” would
have been just as enlightening. A “Vita-
phone all-color attraction,” it is smeared
with the sea-sick greens and unearthly pinks
and mauves which handicap most produc-
tions of the sort. If the so-called color had
been cut out, and the form and design of
the elaborate ballets left to speak for them-
selves, the results—or anyhow some of them
—might have been artistically worth while.
Winnie Lightner is the uproarious star, and
she bellows, over-sentimentalises and over-
comedes in her well-known manner. Joe E.
Brown, of the colossal month, is funny as
an incompetent pug; and Sally O’Neil, the
heroine, is winsome, as usual. Georges Car-
pentier is the mainstay of the show. His
singing voice would be counted more than
pleasing in suburban drawin'g-rooms, backed
as it is by good looks and a restful poise.
Also, he acts better than most musical-
comedy young men. The prize-fight in which
appears is responsible for such action as
the show possesses. It would have been
wonderful with the color left out, and, in '
spite of the color, it is well worth seeing,
lhe clialogue—wise-cracks delivered in rasp-
ing Bowery-American for the most part—is
lamentable.
* * *
Sydney Haymarket has been screening a
talkie version of ‘‘The Man from Blank
J , V Bai 'rymore plays Lord Strath-
peffer, and Loretta Young, another Ameri-
ean, is Margery but. they get away with it.
Much of Anstey s original dialogue has been
retained, and it is brilliant enough to give
distinction to any .show. J


I'9
FOR FIVE
MADE AND GUARANTEED BY THE AUTOSTROP SAFETY
RAZOR CO., LTD., 197-207, CITY ROAD, LONDON, ENG.
Managing Agents for Austialia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LIMITED,
181, CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
New Zealand Agents:
VAN STAVEREN BROS., LTD., AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON & CHRISTCHURCH.
Old-fashioned two-edged blades
vibrated and dragged because of
wafer thinness. New shaped
holes in Probak blades distribute
bending strain and make 17%
extra weight possible. Extra
weight reduces vibration to the
minimum. Made from continu-
ous ribbon of steel, so that every
blade must have the same perfect
edge. Probak blades fit all two-
edged safety razors. Sold every-
where at fixed prices, 1/9 the
small packet, 3/6 the large.
new shaped holes
make 1 7% extra
weight possibles
result no
vibration, no
BAK
BLADES
t
m
■
. wA
Also ask about other
Winchester Flashlights
serviceable, durable,
dependable and adap-
ted to every use.
Light Wherever You
Turn Your Eyes
COMFORTABLY fastened to your hat or
forehead by a wide web elastic band,
this unique Winchester Flashlight turns
with your head, tilts at any desired angle
and throws its light wherever you turn
your head. Current is supplied through a
flexible cord connecting with a standard
Winchester Flashlight Battery in a special
case that slips into your pocket or clips to
your belt, thus leaving you both hands
free. An ideal light for farmers, mechan-
ics, doctors, dentists, bandsmen, motorists,
sportsmen and all others who need .light
while using both their hands.
WINCHESTER REPEATING
ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN, CONN., U. S. A.. 19
•wmcHEsnu
TRADE MARK
HEADLIGHT I
trT"
n
N.
Proper
Lubrication
..of Lorries
‘Reduces
Operating
Costs*
Nothing is more costly than grit, sand and dirt
in the bearings of any motor vehicle, because
they eat out the polished bearing surfaces.
Worn-out bearings must be replaced—lorries lie
idle while repairs are being made.
Operating costs can be greatly reduced with
regular, proper lubrication. With the ALEMITE
System, pure, Alemite solidified oil lubricant is
forced into the heart of the bearing under 3000
lb. pressure —old grease and grit are forced out
and replaced with fresh “friction killing”
lubricant.
To operate lorries economically, ALEMITE
their chassis bearings every 500 miles. Change
to Alemite Gear Lubricant for transmissions and
differentials every 2500 miles.
Full particulars from:
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH
Resident Manager
250 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Or from the following representatives:
Bennett & Wood, Ltd 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
Motor Supplies, Ltd. ..... Brisbane
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd 894 Hay Street, Perth
E. A. Machin & Co., Ltd. 535 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
Cornell Limited, 122 PirielSt., Box G. P. 0.496, E. Adelaide
ALEMITE CORPORATION
Chicago, U. S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT-Chicago
ALEMITE


W&W26.
ißi
London Office:
“Gresham House, ,f
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND IA-Z
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association
Contractors with the Board, of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwuila Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Vic. Derby Day, 1930, will be remem-
bered by the present generation of racegoers
for the rest of their lives because of an
early-morning outrage, which had nothing
to do with the classic contest. People went
to Flemington less to see the Derby than
to witness Phar Lap in action, and they
undertook the journey knowing that a
scoundrelly effort had been made to prevent
the champion being there. Phar Lap, re-
turning from track exercise, was shot at
from a moving motor-car. He escaped in-
jury through the great courage and presence
of mind shown by Tommy Woodcock, an erst-
while Sydney jockey and now Telford’s fore-
man ; he placed the pony on which he was
mounted between the ruffians and Phar Lap,
and contrived to swing the chestnut round
immediately before the shot was fired. Detec-
tives promptly went in search of the crimi-
nals, for whose conviction a reward of £lOO
lias been offered by Davis, owner of Phar
Lap. At this period Melbourne appears to
be a happy hunting-ground for underworld
scum, ready to undertake any'job, however
desperate or despicable.
What happened reads like a Nat Gould
melodrama, but it was horribly real. Every-
one is asking who instigated the attempted
crime. Obviously the author or authors
were financially interested.
Escorted on to the course by two dust-
covered motor-policemen, Phar Lap safely
reached the post for the Melbourne Stakes,
and, starting at 5 to 1 on, won on the bit,
covering 10 furlongs in 2min. 41sec., easing
up. The time was 21sec. faster than Car-
, bine’s best effort for li miles 40 years ago.
Amounis knocked up in a hopeless effort to
overhaul Telford’s horse, and second honors
went to Trcgilla, who, though three lengths
behind Phar Lap, was four lengths ahead of
Amounis. The A.J.C. Derby hero’s price
naturally shortened for the Melbourne Cup ;
Carradale’s just as naturally lengthened—he
finished 10 lengths behind Amounis.
Veilmond’s defeat in the Victoria Derby
caused Moss’s colt to go right out of favor
for the Cup. Ignoring his bad form at
Easter, pressmen have boomed this pig of a
horse industriously, with sad results to pun-
ters. He was 6 to 4 on for the Derby. Shirk-
ing punishment, he swerved towards the rails
several times, and interfered with Miss
Arrow r , who, with a clear run, probably would
have been second to Balloon King (7 to 2).
That honest little horse, admirably ridden
by Pike, was always travelling like a winner;
he wound up a length and a quarter ahead
of Veilmond, with Miss Arrow third. So
Adrian Knox was concerned in a Derby
win at last.
The Maribyrnong Plate went to La Jus-
tice, a stable-mate of Phar Lap, and, like
the champion, bred in Maoriland. Since it
looked as if the Chief Ruler filly had been
lucky to vanquish Bassanton at Moonee Val-
ley, punters allbwed her to go out at 20
to 1; Bassanton met with a mishap and did
not start. The favorite was High Brae,
trained by Jack Holt for the lady who owns
High Syce. The nearest High Brae could
get was fourth. La Justice scored brilliantly
by nearly a length from Bold Bid, the
Eferoic—Nod colt which Jim Scobie trains
for C. B. Kellow, and whose half-brother
Land of Nod had captured the Maiden Plate.
Starstone (25 to 1) was third. This gelding
is a good ’un, and would have been closer
if he had not changed stride at each cross-
ing in the straight. Movie Star, winner of
the A.J.C. Breeders’ Plate, compounded about
a furlong from the post. The penalty
stopped him, but Starstone lumped it with-
out difficulty.
Ashley Reed, whose brother habitually
rides Nightmarch, won the Maiden Plate oil
Land of Nod (9 to 2) and the valuable Cantala
Stakes on Mystic Peak (8 to 1). There was
a lot of rough stuff in the Cantala; an in-
quiry into interference to Mollison was
adjourned until Cup Day, Reed being
one of the jockeys questioned by the
stewards. Pat Quinlan made a lucky deal
when he acquired Mystic Peak last autumn
by private purchase in Sydney; the Romeo
gelding’s success, was some compensation for
the death of Cragford. Mystic Peak was fol-
lowed home by Prince Viol (10 to 1) and The
Gay Mutineer (6 to 1) ; the Sydney horses,
Panola and Pentheus, were never dangerous.
Lou Robertson, whose Mordialloc stable
shelters the Queensland gelding Soulton. an-
nexed the Hotham Handicap with Cimbrian
(6 to 1), a half-brother to Heroic. It is
only at lengthy intervals that Cimbrian
wins. He belongs to A. T. Creswick, sheep
baron and owner of Carlton Brewery shares.
John Buchan was a red-hot favorite for the
Hotham. He hit the front, but quit when
the pace grew too warm in the straight.
Cimbrian got home by a mere half-head from
Quickfirer, who broke down after the race.
For the remaining days:—
Linlithgow Stakes: Phar Lap; next, Wise
Force.
Oaks Stakes: Miss Arrow; next, Home-
dale.
C. B. Fisher Plate; Phar Lap; next, Tre-
gilla.
Vic. Steeplechase: Nauru; next, Sand-
hurst.
* * * *
“Hotham” : In a week crowded with sen-
sations, Rigadoon, favorite for the Guineas
and fancied for the Derby, died in Melbourne,
and so did Cragford. Their passing had noth-
ing to do with the doping of Wise Force or
the attempt'to plug Phar Lap, although ner-
vous people imagined a connection ; “natural
causes” was the verdict in each case. Both
animals are losses to the turf, Cragford
especially. He might have trained on to be
the best horse in Australia, next to Phar
Lap. It would now seem that Cragford was
ailing in Sydney when he cleared out with
the Rosehill Cup and the Metrop.; and when
he ran that great race in the Caulfield Cup
he was evidently dying on his feet. What
a heart he must have had !
* * * *
William Kelso has no Statesman in his
stable nowadays, but he has a useful little
horse in Flinders. By Sea Prince out of
Quiara, an English mare raced in Westralia
by the late Charles Watson, Flinders has
shown that he can stand a lot of racing, and
though a slow beginner he is a most deter-
mined finisher. The others went a bit too
fast for him over the first half-mile of the
ten-furlong race on the first of the two days
at Rosehill; the grey Eton Blue (7 to 1)
won from Adrian’s March, Nan Kourgan and
Flinders in the course-record time of 2min.
ssec. The November Handicap on Satur-
day, however, was made to suit Flinders;
he had the same weight (7st. 111 b.) and a
furlong further to travel. Favorite at 6
to 4 in a field of five, he got home, with some-
thing in reserve, from Frances Cyllene and
Kidaides, He was ridden by a smart appren-
SOMETHING OUT OF THE BASKET.
HOPELESS DUD: “Now then, caddie—you know perfectly well that
two shillings is the usual thing.”
CADDIE: “Blime, lady, you don’ call that round the usual thing!”
tice (Weiss) who gets a 71b. allowance, and
another victory or two should be in store
for him if the liandicappers are not too
severe.
A return to form, -very welcome to Traut-
wein, his owner, was shown by Aorangi, whe
was thought to have seen his best day. In
the Parramatta Mile the old fellow, who was
favorite at fours, finished a close second to
Antiochus (14 to 1), but was carried out
by that son of Demetrius—Sabadilla and
was placed first on protest. In the Flying
Handicap on Saturday Aorangi (twelves,
strangely enough) finished like a shot out
of a gun but was just too late to catch Don
Moon (7 to 2), another old stager who has
been a galloping goldmine to various owners
—he now races in trainer Booth’s colors. The
favorite, Citamon, was third; it was a
desperately close finish. Trautwein has paid
high prices for horses that disappointed him,
but he made no mistake when he bought
Aorangi, and Sidney George is another of
his purchases that promises to turn out
well. He won a division of the Trial Stakes
in very easy fashion. Sidney George is a
five-year-old gelding by Treclare —Linmaid.
Antiochus was the unlucky horse of the
Rosehill meetings. Made favorite (natur-
ally) for the Rydalmere Mile on the Satur-
day, he finished wide out again, and this
time was a neck behind the winner, Voleusc
(Magpie—Vole), who went out at 8 to 1.
Voleuse is raced by Colin Stephen, the A.J.C.
chairman ; she has filled out into a very nice
little mare, and should have a profitable
season.
For Moorefield on Saturday:—
Three-year-old Handicap; Labor Girl;
next, Country Damsel.
Kogarah Stakes: Valentino; next, The
Muya.
Flying Handicap: Richfield ; next, Green-
loch.
Moorefield Handicap: Flinders; next,
Spearshot.
Hurstville Mile; Aorangi or Sidney
George; next, Shrill Trill.
*E * * *
“Rowley Mile”: The British Betting Con-
trol Board has been experimenting at New-
market with a daily double tote which
promises to catch on. The first day no
one picked the brace, so the money was
equally divided among those naming the
winners of the two races selected, each receiv-
ing £2 18s. 6d. for 10s. On the second day
one double was struck, the striker collect-
ing £271 7s. for his half-sovereign. One of
the winners went out at 10’s in the ring and
the other at 7’s. Flemington and Rand wick
should have their double totes; so should
the leading courses in all the other capitals
as well.
s»e • jfc % sjs
“Thormanby” : The ring had another good
day when the Cambridgeshire went to The
Pen, 50 to 1. The Recorder, wdio won a
lot of good races during the season, was
heavily backed at 7 to 2. The Pen is owned
by Mrs. Hartigan, wife of one of Britain’s
leading trainers, and is by Cygnus from
Kilbrona, sister to Kilbroney, now siring
winners in Maoriland. The second horse,
Racedale, also boasts a feminine owner, in
this case Lady Nunburnliolme.
* * * *
“FY7”: Ivedron Park (Q.) stewards
recently dropped on a trainer for administer-
ing a nobbier of whisky and water to his
nag before a race. The offender pleaded
ignorance of the rule
against the practice.
In the long ago it
was a regular cus-
tom, the bracer being
generally given from
one of the old-style
oval soda - water
bottles, the thick
glass of which made
breakage unlikely.
The writer’s dad
once owned an old
steeplechaser named
Canobie, who used
to run in the Barcoo
River district of
Queensland. The old
gentleman got so
used to his nip that
he looked for it as
soon as saddling up
commenced, and re-
gistered the most
emphatic disappro-
val if there were any
delay in getting it.
* *
“Durdans” : Jimmy
Hayes, of Victoria,
once a well-known
rider and later an
importer and owner
of thoroughbreds—•
Sailing Home and
Honorious among
them —had some in-
teresting comments
to make on his re-
turn to Melbourne
lately. The tote has
caught on well in
England, and attend-
ances have greatly
increased since its
advent, small bet-
tors now going to
the courses instead
of the s.p. merchants. He regards The
Recorder as the best three-year-old in
England. The returned traveller shortly
leaves again to take up residence at
Epsom. Before he left England he
bought ten yearlings belonging to fashionable
families. He will race them in England,
where the money is good.
*.* * *
“Fitzcray”; Firmer control of country
bookmakers is aimed at in a measure
introduced in the Victorian Assembly last
week. The Comptroller of Stamps is given
power to refuse to stamp the license of any
bookmaker if he has been warned by any
club of reasons why a license should not be
issued, the bookie to have the right of appeal
to any police magistrate.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
A great crowd saw the second clash
between Jack Haines, of N.S.W., and Vic-
toria’s “Young” Palmer, at Sydney Stadium,
the middleweight title being involved on this
occasion. After another hair-raising scrap
the verdict was a draw. Haines was lucky
in breaking even, for despite the great fight
he put up and the weight he put into his
punches, especially in the early rounds, he
at no time established much of a lead, and
Palmer certainly took the points of the con-
cluding rounds. Haines fought fiercely from
the jump and several times looked a winner;
but, as in their first fight, Palmer’s wonder-
ful defence stood to him, and he came back
like a wild cat, getting- much the better of
the in-fighting. Over the concluding three
rounds, well-timed left hooks by Palmer
connected with painful frequency, and the
verdict met with considerable disapproval.
Palmer 11.41, Haines 11.4|.
* * * *
After the fierce draw Billy Jones and
Jimmy Kelso fought at Leichhardt a few
weeks ago, their return tilt at the same
stadium was expected to be close. Jones
(9.8§) was too forceful for Kelso (9.8),
though, and ran out a decisive points winner.
Kelso, by cleaner boxing, made the encounter
even for five rounds; but Jones’s greater
stamina prevailed, and his younger oppo-
nent was outpunclied to the final bell. The
bout was billed as for the Australian light-
weight championship, though Norman Gilles-
pie, who won the title from Jones last year,
never lost it in the ring. Gillespie refused
to meet any logical contender under cham-
pionship conditions during the allotted six
months’ grace, so Jones is now regarded as
the best 9.9 boxer in Australia.
* * * •.);
“Mitt Shover”: Jack Dempsey is following
the invariable practice of the retired pug
and endeavoring to come back to the ring.
There is something to be said for his opinion
that the front-rankers of to-day are such a
lot of duds that he would have an odds-on
chance of beating them. He has suggested
that the champion Max Schmelling, Camera
and Stribling should face each other in
elimination bouts, leaving the winner to his
tender mercies. Camera is at present lionis-
ing in his native Italy, and it is doubtful if
he will be permitted to re-enter America,
Which recently pushed him out under the
immigration laws, after extending his time
in the States for a term.
The Ins and Outs
The first Sheffield Shield match of the
season at Brisbane saw Queensland in a good
position against South Australia at the end
of the second day’s play. The home side, in
first in showery weather, which handicapped
the bowlers, ran up 289, Biggs batting in
fine style for 108, while the veteran Thomp-
son helped with 78. Carlton and Lee were
the wicket-takers with four apiece. South
Australia must have found the pitch doing
something, for the two fast bowlers, Thurlow
(5 for 25) and Gilbert (2 for 22), rattled
the side out for 72. Nitschke (54), Pritchard
* (52) and Lonergan (29) did well in the
second innings, but when 8 were down for
258 it looked a million to one on Queensland.
* * * *
“Tuart”: Bradman is an asset these days,
and naturally the Mick Simmons firm, which
has the lafi under contract, is making the
most of him. So are the General Motors
people, who are stage-managing his progress
from capital to capital, and presenting him
with a car. There is some foolish gabble
that the Board of Control will “discipline”
the Bowral boy because of his newspaper and
music-hall activities in England. The public
will not tolerate anything of the kind. A
reasonable policy for future tours (no idiotic
“39 articles”) will have to be laid down
and adhered to; but it is idle to talk of
singling out Bradman for punishment when
other members of the team —'nearly all of
them —sold their autographs to British
cigarette manufacturers for “the duration.”
Australia has taken Bradman to its heart,
and the youth of the nation might have
immeasurably worse idols than this smiling
youngster, who neither drinks nor smokes.
* * * *
“Der Jong” ; By the time this is in print,
I ercy Chapman’s team should have been
blooded against the Western Province side
at Capetown. It is close on 40 years
since the first lot of Ilooineks tackled South
Africa. The side was captained by Aubrey
Smith, a Cambridge Blue, who played with
Sussex and had South African affiliations;
indeed he was a Transvaal rep. Most of
the earlier .teams from England were private
ventures, and the first side to go out under
the revered banner of the Marylebone Club
was Warner’s 1905-06 team. Incidentally,
it was for this tour that the St. John’s
Wood Club first established its special
colors for M.C.C. teams touring abroad—
the red, gold and blue with which most
Australian cricket followers are familiar.
At home at Lords, the old club still clings
to the famous scarlet and gold always
associated with its name.
* * * *
“ ’Badian” : There seems to be an impres-
sion abroad that the West Indian team which
will be here at the end of the month is made
up of youngsters. As a matter of fact there
are three who have to confess to passing 35
years—old as a cricketer goes nowadays.
Oscar Scott is the veteran of the side, 37.
He is the only man of the Buccaneers who
can date back to representative cricket when
Marylebone first sent an eleven across in
1911. A right-arm change bowler, who
has taken 96 wickets against English teams,
a record for a West Indian, he is also
a batsman always likely to knock up a
half-century—he put up 32 and 38 against
England in the Tests when the W.I. side
was last in England, beside notching scores
from 75 and downwards against the coun-
ties. Like W. G. Grace, Allan Steel and
many a famous bowler before him, he bowls
slow leg. breaks, getting a tremendous spin
off the pitch, even on the hardest wicket.
(Continued on next page.)


Bert :*lm not too good qis the
FAlßvvA*y ?
GERT'/'" \ve noticed that?
sert ; But WHEN IT COMES TO
PUTTING* GREENS ■’*
G|ERT 1 DEAR ITS THE. BALLVOUVE
GOT TO PUTT, NOT THE GREEN 1
The Ins and Outs
The first important cricket match of the
season, the game between N.S.W. and
Queensland colts in Brisbane, ended in a
win by 6 wickets for N.S.W,, largely by
reason of the execrable Queensland fielding.
The Queensland team included a good pro-
portion of country players, including 16-
year-old F. Sides, from Townsville, who
scored a century for Country v. City colts.
The youngster’s form impressed the selectors
so much that he has been included in the
State XI, and is probably the youngest
player to figure in Sheffield games. The out-
standing feature on the N.S.W. side was the
success of fast-bowler Stewart, of Newington
College and Northern Districts, who took
6 for 67 in Queensland’s second innings. This
has won him selection against South Aus-
tralia in Sydney, another newcomer who has
bowled his way into the team being W. Hunt,
a slow lefthander from Balmain.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Only Bradman and Fairfax
of the Australian Eleven, with Kippax as
skipper, figure in the N.S.W. side meeting
South Australia in Sydney this week, so
a couple of promising bowlers in Hunt and
Stewart have been given a chance to shine.
Bill, one of the State’s solidest batsman and
last season permanent twelfth man for the
side, has been included. Allsopp, who did
some sensational things last year with the
bat, is also in, and his progress this season
will be watched with extra interest, in view
of the prowess of Bradman, like himself a
country unknown a season or two ago. A
pity a place has not been found for Marks
of Randwick. A leftliand batsman is badly
wanted in the side since Warren Bardsley
dropped out, and last season Marks promised
to become a permanent institution in the
State eleven.
Hj ❖ ❖ H*
“Toombul”: A Bananaland bowler of an
unusual type is J. Pizzey, of Bundaberg, who
is one of the selections for the State side.
The youngster bowls left-hand, but instead
-of the molly-hander’s usual spin from the
right-hand batsman’s leg, he turns them in
from the off. Right-hand bowlers employing
the same spin are fairly common—Arm-
strong and Harry Trott were notable
examples—but Pizzey’s sort are rare
birds. He lias been very successful so far,
and of course the usual expert idiot is
advising him to cultivate an off-break, and a
bosie as well.
* * * *
“Narque”: A lot of lads who take interest
in cricket are wondering what manager
Kelly has up his sleeve in the matter of his
report to the Board of Control. The refer-
ence to Mr. Kelly may seem somewhat
inverted to the casual reader, but it has been
made with intent. If half the -rumors in
connection with the trip are correct it would
seem that the team really managed Kelly.
And that gentleman was evidently on no ver-
friendly terms with some of the press repre-
sentatives. One individual, cabling to a
Sydney journal the other day, spoke in glow-
ing terms of treasurer Tommy Howard, but
said of Kelly that “though personally cor-
dial, he failed to extend the customary cour-
tesies connected with our work by which
greater people than cricket-tour managers
establish relations that make their task
easier.” It recalls, somehow, the advice of
a famous Frenchman: “Don’t quarrel with
a waiter ; you never know when lie mightn’t
spit in your soup.”
“Bn .npkin”: Teams contesting in the
Mid-week Cricket Association matches about
Melbourne last week had to reckon with a
gale which blew the bails off every time they
were replaced. In the game between Fire
Brigade and Brighton the difficulty was
got over by sticking the bits of wood on with
chewing-gum.
* * *■ *
“Sturt”: Arthur Richardson, back in
S.A. after professional engagements in
Perth and in Lancashire, will have, as a
fellow ground-bowler on Adelaide Oval, L. G.
Holton, 6ft. Sin. and fast. He is a Vic-
torian who moved to Adelaide at 21 (five
years ago), has come to the front in the
last two seasons, and last year was given a
trial against Westralia.
* * * *
“Gabba”: Ron Oxenlfam has announced
that he will lie unable to play with Ryder’s
side in the Melbourne match against the
Australian Eleven, beginning November 29.
There is some doubt as to whether he will be
able to get away from Queensland for the
Sheffield Shield matches in the South either.
This will mean a serious loss to the State
side, for this season he is bowling better
than ever, and has been showing fine form
with the bat. His place in the benefit
match will be taken by Rigg, the young
Melbourne TJni. player, who was one of the
fancied candidates for the Australian team.
•With Oxenham out, Jack Ryder will not be
well off for bowlers, since his mainstays
will be the venerable Blackie, Ironmonger
and Mailey. •
* * * *
“Bowen Bridge”: Queensland has included
a fair amount of new blood in its first
Sheffield Shield team of the season, the most
notable being the abo. fast bowler Gilbert.
Long and lathy, the indigene takes a run of
only half a dozen steps, and though his
pace through the air is not exceptionally fast,
his nip off the pitch is described as pheno-
menal. The State is building a lot on his
success, but is likely to be disappointed
unless the side improves in its slip-fielding,
which has been consistently villainous for
some years.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut Shot”: The Sydney Metropolitan
tennis tourney just ended was remarkable
for the ascendancy of Harry Ilopman over
all his rivals, with the exception of the
youthful Dunlop, who ran him a hard race
in the preliminary singles. In the final,
Hopman overwhelmed his Davis Cup mate,
Jack Crawford. Crawford seems but the
ghost of his former self since his return
to Australia. His Strokes lack pace, and he
gives one the impression of not caring a
tinker’s malediction about his game. He has
always been subject to these queer lapses,
rising from them on occasion to world-beating
form.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Like bowlers, tennis players
always seem to be looking for lash. The
latest instance is an upheaval in Queensland
because the tennis authorities there have
published a ranking list which brackets Cum-
mings with Moon. Cummings is a member
of the ranking committee —otherwise ,the
State selectors —while Moon is not. Moon
headed the Queensland list last year, and
the mere fact of his selection over Cummings
for the Davis Cup team is held by his sup-
porters to place him out on his own at the
top of the list. With all due deference there
is something to be said for Cummings. Year
in and out he is consistently good, and Moon
is not.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: Recent references to
Vincent Richards, and other famous ex-
amateur tennis players who have found the
professional field rather barren, remind the
writer that J. O. Anderson, after Norman
Brookes perhaps Australia’s best exponent
of tennis, is also seeking re-admission to the
amateur fold. The Australian Council has
informed him that he must conform to the
accepted conventions. Reinstatement will
take place after two years of abstention from
professional practices, the proviso including
the refusal of royalties in respect to the
sale of tennis material. When J.O. turned pro.
he made a good start with coaching and
journalistic appointments, while he was per-
mitted to take part in several exhibition
tours with prominent amateurs. Interest in
these has fallen off and the ex-Davis Cup
champion has found, as Richards has don :,
that the routine work of a tennis coach
is a Dead Sea apple.
t- * * : *
“Kooyong”: The Victorian tennis heads
have published their 39th annual report, and,
as is proper in these times, it is slightly
draped with crape. The past season has not
been a financial success, though heavy cut-
ting in expenditure showed a £lOOO decrease
on general outgoings. Receipts have tumbled
some £7OO in members’ subscriptions and play-
ing fees, a lot of folk feeling that they are
unable to afford the wild extravagance of
the pat-ball game. The debit for the year
is something less than £250, which is con-
sidered satisfactory. One item in the report
which will be hailed with cheers by players
is • the announcement that the association
courts at Kooyong have been improved out
of sight since the advent of the new curator.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: W. Bolger, winner of the
N.S.W. professional championship, has an
extraordinarily equable temperament for a
youth of 20, and after leading right through
the tourney finished in most unconcerned
fashion, while Soutar showed signs of strain
in the closing stages. Bolger is professional
at St. Andrew’s, Parramatta, and should
go far in the game. This is his first big win,
though he has been coming forward steadily
in important golf for a couple of years past.
Soutar, who is in charge at Moore Park, is
a Scot, and one of the best players Aus-
tralia has seen. As long ago as 1903 he won
the N.S.W. amateur title, and as a profes-
sional he has both the N.S.W. and Victorian
championships to his credit.
:«c * H:
“Baffy”: Sydney, which recently broke out
in a rash of miniature golf courses, is to
• have a regular governing body just like. the
real thing. Last week a meeting of minia-
ture-course proprietors formed an associa-
tion, with .the idea of controlling the game
generally and instituting inter-club com-
petitions. The competition notion is com-
mendable, and should add,a lot of interest to
the game, which, as played at present, tends
to verge on the monotonous. Players, for the
most part mugs at present, will be able to im-
prove their game jin competition, ’to say no-
thing of enlarging • theif vocabulary.
* * * *
“Brassey”: The miniature-golf mania is
spreading in the country districts. A course
is being laid down at Cessnock (N.S.W.) with
the idea of catching some of the shekels.
Public bodies, such as the local municipal
councils and boards, might do worse than
invest in a full-sized public course in some of
these thickly-populated areas. Most of the
big coal-mining centres in Britain maintain
such courses, as do the manufacturing cities,
and find them mighty profitable. There is a
tendency in Australia for wage-earners to
look askance at golf as an insidious device of
the capitalist. In Europe and America, the
“artisan golfer” can be numbered by the
hundred thousand.
* * * :|:
“Miramar” : Olive Kay, the brilliant young
Maoriland golferette who figured with dis-
tinction in the recent Victorian and Austra-
lian championships, took the M.L. champion-
ship in fine style recently, beating the holder,
Miss Garsford, 3 up and 2 to play. The
lady has played since childhood under the
expert eye of her father, and is one of the
most finished golfers of her sex yet seen on
this side of the Tasman.
* '* * *
“Friz”: Since Peary does not mention
having seen a golf course in the locality when
he. visited the North Pole, the inhabitants of
Flin Flon, in Northern Manitoba, are con-
fident that their course is the farthest north
in the world. Recently the Hudson Bay Co.,
which runs the smelters there, laid down, a
four-hole course on a drained lake-bed near
by. At first the innovation was received
with scoffing by the roughnecks of the com-
munity, but at latest advices the game lias
lured the roughest of them from pinochle
and stud poker, and the extension of the
course to a nine-holer is being taken in hand.
Car and Cycle
“M.P.H.”: Progress is being made with
enormous Miller car with which the.
U.S.A. will seek to pulverise the late Sir
Henry Segrave’s record of 231.36 m.p.h. The
engines—two of them —have been built and
tested. Each consists of three banks of eight
cylinders, arranged on the “broad arrow”
pattern, and develops 1200 h.p. at maximum
revs. One will go in front and the other
behind the driver, and the drive will be
applied to all four wheels. The car will
weigh five tons —twice the weight of Kaye
Don’s “Silver Bullet,” which was credited
with housing motors that developed 4000 h.p.
Two of America’s foremost racing drivers
have been engaged to steer the monster —
De Paolo and Fengler.
* * * #
“Daly Waters” : Yet another fast transcon-
tinental trip has been put up, this time by
Roy Edwards, a Darwin pearler, who drove
his Chevrolet sports roadster from Darwin to
Brisbane in eight days’ travelling time. The
car was a stock model, which had already
covered just under 12,000 miles, and beyond
an extra petrol tank underwent no special
fitting up. The fuel average for the 2600-
mile run over all sorts of going was 20
miles to the gallon.
* * * *
“Garry” : Sir Dennistoun Burney, as the
result of his experience in stream-lining the
gondolas of RlOO, has evolved a new type of
enclosed automobile body, which is said to
offer about a third of the wind-resistance of
an ordinary sedan or tourer, and to reduce
by half the engine-power required to attain
speeds of up to 80 m.p.h. The faster this
tvpe of car goes, it is claimed, the less the
weight cast upon its tyres. At 180 m.p.h.
it would leave the ground altogether. Charles
F. Kettering, head of General Motors’
research department, recently disclosed
another development which makes it appear
that if the Burney type of body gets popular
drivers will have to be very careful of
accelerating if they want to stay on the
road. The G.M. concern’s metallurgists
have compounded a new alloy called
“beryllium,” one-third the weight of alu-
minium and 15 times as strong as nickel
steel. It is expensive stuff, costing about £2500
a ton to produce, but that won’t be a handicap
in view of the things it makes possible. Inside
10 years, says Kettering, there will be oa
the market cars costing less than £2OO to
build which will do 100 m.p.h. and 80 miles
to the gallon of petrol.
* * * *
“Whizz”: Violet Cordery, whom Aus-
tralians will remember as passing through
this country during her world tour in a small
car, is out to establish a new distance record,
and will try to cover 44,000 miles in 28 days,
being assisted by three male drivers. The lady
has some notable performances to her credit,
having twice won the Dewar Cup for the
best motoring performance in any one year.
To win babk the distance record for Britain
from France Miss Cordery and her helpers
will have to average some 68£ m.p.h. for the
whole run. Her schedule provides for a pace
of 70 m.p.h. for the first 35,000 miles and
65 for the last lap of 9000 miles.
• Jjs * % H»
“Kick Starter” : Two youngsters from the
N.S.W. Northern Rivers, James and Wratten
by name, left Lismore last July on a. round •
Australia motor-cycling tour which is
part of a globe-encirclement schemed. They
cast up in Melbourne the other day after
a run of nearly 7000 miles, and embarked
for the next stage of their journey through
Africa to the Mediterranean. The pair
intend to visit 34 countries and expect to
tally 250,000 miles if all goes according to
schedule. Part of the programme will be
lecturing on Australia in the countries they
pass through, though how the language
difficulty will be overcome is not stated.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: Though both individual and
teams championships in the big Sydney to
Melbourne cycle-race were won by the French-
men, Mauclair and Bidot, Australian riders
showed up well. Opperman was second and
Lamb fourth behind Bidot. One result of the
race is that an Australian team will now be
sent to France next season to compete in the
famous tour. A regulation side of six
will be dispatched. Opperman and Lamb
pick themselves.. Whether M.L. riders will
be invited to enter for selection, as on the
last occasion, has not yet been decided.
Miscellaneous
“Hotham” : Victorian yachtsmen have been
sitting up and taking notice of a new craft
which has been designed to annex the Forster
Cup from the Tasmanian holders. Built by
Charles Peel for R. A. White, the new 21-
footer is quite different in design from other
Victorian boats in the same class. She will
appear in the opening regatta of the Vic-
torian season.
# ❖
“Fin”: The Australian 12-footer cham-
pionship is to be sailed on Port Jackson on
December 27 and 31 and on January 3.
N.S.W. officials will conduct three test
races before then, six boats from each of
the four affiliated clubs competing, the
most successful six to defend the title, which
was won last year in Brisbane from Queens-
land. The Northerners are putting half a
dozen new boats in the water, but the cham-
pion of the river so far seems to be Doris
11., belonging to Jack McCleer, who won
the title in 1927-28. No class of craft gives
better opportunities for training young
skippers than the tiny and tricky “Twelves,”
which have come on astonishingly in public
estimation during the past few years.
He H* H* *
“Retired Urger”: There 'are indications
since the- 25th of October that the Tin Hare,
which had been thought by many students
of Sydney’s fauna to be extinct, may shortly
appear again in large numbers. The victori-
ous party, always well inclined to this
branch of nature study, includes in its ranks
an acknowledged expert on the subject whose
care for this particular poor dumb animal
has made him noteworthy. Other species of
the genus Blankyrampus are expected also
to emerge from their seclusion, especially
the Equus nocturnus, otherwise the horse
that trots by night.
H* ■ ijs H* H*
“Plymouth Hoe”: One interesting item in
the tour of the Australian bowlers in Britain
was their game at the 600-years-old South-
hampton club. The party was received by
a number of members garbed in solemn black
and ancient toppers. These were the club
champions for the year, who, under the
title of Knights of the Green, receive all
distinguished visitors in state. The touring
party were shown mediaeval bowls preserved
in the club’s museum, and were duly in-
structed in the ancient organisation’s his-
tory. No mention seems to have been made
of the fact that in the Middle Ages and
long after, even to the days of Queen Anne,
bowls was a criminal offence, punished with
fine arid imprisonment, as many forgotten
Parliamentary enactments testify to this day.
It was particularly blamed for encouraging
the consumption of strong waters, which goes
to show how little the hoary pastime has
changed in essentials with the centuries.
$ H*
“Gate”: Once more an attempt is being
made in Sydney to form an alliance between
the different codes of football, with the idea
of sharing the Sydney Cricket Ground for
matches. The move was instigated by the
Rugby League, which has bitterly repented
its decision to leave the big arena last year.
When a similar body was formed some years
ago, the League held the S.C.G. on lease,
and steadfastly refused the use of it to other
football bodies, especially the Rugby Union.
Later the professional body withdrew from
the so-called grounds committee, which then
came' to an end.
Hs ❖ * *
“Spike”: While those controlling amateur
athletics in N.S.W. have made much of
their labors in compiling a new) set of
standard times, they still continue to neglect
a most important factor in the making of
fast times, the institution of cinder tracks
The leading athletic, events are run on grass.
Not only is it impossible for a runner to com-
pete with cinder-track times under these con-
ditions, but he is handicapped when he lias to
run on cinder tracks in Europe, America or
South Africa. He lias to learn his business all
over again. That applies also to men coming
to grass from 'cinders, and explains the
failure of more than one American and
Continental runner to equal in Australia
the times recorded in his own country.


A s 'dk y , tesm
■Si
wM'
"THERE'S NO THROAT HARM IN A MILLION/
rjgr jpMjpj
n
111111 l
m&9i
mm-m
A
jPMppji
Sss;
si
Sv-S
SiiS
!:ii
SflS -s
liiiilSßSiSSSs
rim
:
Ifill
rfS-XvX^.:
SS;:-:
HoS:
'
: :S!:v
■ lips - -
flillls
■ P
111
mm
biiiiiiii
e555|
El
m
m
m
r
jsa
*5
• : :’ft*Xv:WA*y*i*v
• ..? -, - & m v
Ililißllillß
H
mpA
»
i
k \%f^
sss
mp
ga
iS.O
ss®
SSSfiftSSfS
w-x
mmm
ivX*SS:
ill
.
: : S:SSwS^S: : >::: : : : : : : : : : : : §
%
■KIWSKWSSX
t#iB
SiviS*
wimm
k
LET!> BE OPTIMISTIC
-ITS EASY UNDERTHE
ELEVATING INFLUENCE
OF TH E
QUALITY CIGARETTE
IN THE
SCARLETANDGOLD
PACKET.
SW£(XPR£SS
CIGARETTES
20*16 -IG*9


™ *'• '•'' ••' if; ■ VKV.' • 1
• if; x-. y •-?
\
S* ***t
m
: >4 fc* r
A !
<xr*
%
nllfa MU
41 vIM
><, 4
i tv
Vi-
lU
Five days out of seven, children lunch at
school. Eager to play, they waste sandwiches
they dislike, and lose nourishment important
in developing strong bodies. On the days
you give them REX Luncheon Cheese,
they'll eat every morsel with relish; for they
love its creamy deliciousness and piquant
flavour. They'll benefit from its wholesome-
ness ; for it is very rich in food values. &
REX
UNCI SON CIEE§E
RE*
S6ffl
Foggitt Jones Ply. Limited -Curers of the choice REX Hams and Bacon
REX SALMONELLE FINGERS.
Cut toast into finger shapes and spread fairly
thickly with Rex Salmonelle.
Take 1 hard-boiled egg, chop white and yolk
separately, cover the ends of toast with the yolk,
and centre part with white of egg and serve cold.
Separate white from yolk with spread of chopped
parsley.
ROTIES a la MINIME.
Cut slices of stale bread into rounds and
fry a golden brown. Spread with Rex Salmonelle.
Slice some tomatoes and put a piece on each
round; season with pepper and salt. Cut some
Rex Bacon into very thin slices, roll each slice
so that they meet in the middle; place on top
of tomatoes. Cook in oven until bacon is done.
SUPPORT AN AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY.
REX Salmonelle, in dainty glass jars, is a
very high-class fish paste with a delicate flavor.
Other choice REX fish pastes are REX Anchovy
Pa*te and REX Bloater Paste. Like REX
Luncheon Cheese and all the REX Sandwich
Delicacies and canned meats, they are made in
Australia by Australian labor. They are packed
in glass made in Australia, and other industries
that benefit are rubber, tin printing, labels, cases,
etc. In preferring these REX products of home
manufacture to the imported article, patriotism
goes hand in hand with self-interest; for REX
products compare as favorably if not more than
favorably in quality and price with the best
imported.
Write for the book, and mention “The Bulletin.
These Recipes are
from the REX Recipe Book.
Excellent
Recipes
REX LUNCHEON CHEESE STRAWS.
One cup flour, 1 tablespoonful Rex Luncheon
Cheese, pinch of salt and cayenne pepper to taste.
Mix all together with a little milk to a hrm
paste, then roll out and cut into strips two inches
long and as thin as possible. Place them on a
dish and bake in a fairly slow oven for ten
minutes. (No eggs or butter required with Rex
Luncheon Cheese.)
REX LUNCHEON CHEESE RAREBITS.
Mix a little cayenne pepper with the yolk ot
1 egg in 4oz. Rex Luncheon Cheese. Then spread
|in. thick on toast cut into small squares and
bake in a fast oven or salamander for three
minutes.
CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN.
According to size of vegetable, 2 to 4 ounces
Rex Luncheon Cheese, sufficient thick white sauce
to cover. Boil cauliflower until tender; strain
and press into dish in which to be served. Add
Rex Luncheon Cheese to white sauce and pour
over cauliflower. Save a little of the cheese to
place on top with tip of knife. Bake in moderate
oven until nicely browned. . ,
Note. —Marrow, pumpkin, cooked haricot
beans are delicious if done as above. Cut the
marrow and pumpkin in H- to 2-inch portions
before boiling. ,
Green Corn—After the ear has been cooked
remove corn from cob with sharp knife and trea
as above.
REX LUNCHEON CHEESE OMELETTE (1)
(For two Persons).
Three eggs, 1 tablespoonful of milk, salt and
pepper. Mix in a china vessel and pour mixture
in an almost dry but hot frying-pan. When it is
set, place Rex Luncheon Cheese (1 good table-
spoonful to 2 eggs) in centre and roll the omelette
over; let brown for five seconds. Serve hot.
REX LUNCHEON CHEESE OMELETTE (2).
Two eggs, 2oz. Rex Luncheon Cheese, loz.
Cowslip butter, 1 level teaspoonful chopped
parsley, pepper and salt. Separate yolks of eggs
from whites. Beat yolks and Rex Luncheon Cheese
together, add parsley and seasoning. Beat whites
of eggs to good froth, add to mixture and bea
well. Place butter in omelette pan, when hot pour
in mixture, stirring until mixture sets. Shake the
pan occasionally to prevent sticking. Fold in
two, when light brown turn out and serve.
REX LUNCHEON CHEESE PUFFS.
Two eggs, 1 cup self-raising flour, 1 cup milk,
4oz. Rex Luncheon Cheese, pepper and salt. Sift
flour and seasoning. Separate yolks of eggs from
whites. Beat yolks and cheese well together, add
milk gradually, beat whites and add. Keep
stirring while sifting in flour, mix well. Drop
from spoon into deep dripping and fry a rich
brown.
SAUCE ROYAL.
Place a tablespoonful butter in a saucepan;
when melted add half a cup of flour, stir it well,
then add two cupsful of boiling milk (off the
fire); when smooth work in two spoonsful ot
Rex Luncheon Cheese and the yolk of 1 egg-
Spread this on boiled cauliflower, baked fish or
oysters in shell and bake in a fast oven for fr\ e
minutes.
REX SALMONELLE SAVOURY (1).
Cut some tomatoes into rounds and fry m a
little butter; have ready some small rounds of
buttered toast or small Sao biscuits. Spread
with Rex Salmonelle, put a slice of tomato on
each and cover with grated cheese. Decorate
with a few capers. Put in oven for a few minutes
and serve hot or cold.
REX SALMONELLE SAVOURY (2).
Take rings of hard-boiled egg with yolk out,
place on round pieces of toast. Fill rings with
Rex Salmonelle (after being mixed with yolk).
Take rashers of fried Rex Bacon and circle round
egg and salmonelle. Garnish with parsley.
REX SALMONELLE RISSOLES.
Four ounces Rex Salmonelle, 2 cups bread
crumbs, 2 eggs, I small onion, 1 teaspoonful pars-
ley, pepper and salt, 1 tablespoonful tomato sauce.
Chop onion and parsley, mix with bread crumbs,
work in Rex Salmonelle, add tomato sauce, season
to taste. Beat the egg yolks well, add and mix all
thoroughly. Have deep dripping in frying-pan,
drop mixture into this from teaspoon and fry to
a nice brown both sides.
REX SALMONELLE OR BLOATER PASTE
PATTIES.
One 2oz. jar Rex Salmonelle or Bloater Paste,
1 level cup bread crumbs, pepper, salt, 1 cup
self-raising flour, 2oz. Cowslip butter, 1 egg and
a little milk. Mix well with hands Rex Salmon-
elle or Bloater Paste and bread crumbs, moisten
with a little milk, season to taste. For the
pastry: Rub butter through flour, beat yolk of egg
well add sufficient milk to mix flour into stiff
paste Press out two or three times on floured
board and roll out thin. Line greased patty
tins and place in hot oven until light brown.
Take out, nearly fill with mixture, cover with
more pastry, brush over tops with beaten white
of egg and return to oven until cooked.


For the Spring and Summer
Evenings.
MONDAY TO FRIDAY.
DELIGHTFUL SUPPER DANCES.
Commencing at 9 a.m. and
finishing at 1 a.m.
SUPPER 5/-, including dancing.
Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY NIGHT, LATE NIGHT.
Evening Dress Only.
Special Supper from 9 p.m., 10/6
—dancing till 2 a.m.
JACK WOOD’S POPULAR
AMBASSADOR ORCHESTRA.
Afternoon Tea | 3.30 till 5.30, 2/6
Dansant j Saturday . . 4/-
’Phone M 4131.
THINK o/E6e LAKES
NOW . . . .
.... Think of the boating, the fishing, the surfing
of the mirrored reflections in the placid blue waters of
the lakes.. . ..of the golden sunshine and the fragrance of
the green bush....of the tinkling music of the bellbirds
.... of the muffled roar of the Southern Ocean along the
white curving sweep of the Ninety-mile Beach.
Think....and then ACT. Plan your next holiday
at the GIPPSLAND LAKES, the most picturesque
chain of lakes in Australia.
A fast and comfortable train service from Melbourne connects at
Sale or Bairnsdale with steamer or car services to the Lakes.
And the accommodation is excellent.
Booking and all information at the
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY ; OR QUEEN’S WALK, MELBOURNE.
Undei 5
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1920. (
CHAMPAGNE ’<
Charleslleidsieck
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company UmitaJ
SYDNEY.
To H.M.
George V
champagne
Giariesl
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Averts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER.
What’s wrong with Father Time sending
along a few sub-editors to the next function
where journalists are the speakers? At two
Inky Way corroborees last week the orators
pranced gaily along, plucking a flower of
rhetoric here, there exploring some nook or
cranny of literary allusion, while the un-
ceasing sickle garnered the minutes. For
the first endurance speaker, loyal Fred
Broomfield, there was justification mixed
with the perspiration of strained attention.
He was engaged on a eulogy of liis dead
friend H'enry Lawson, and he was bent on
confounding Henry’s adverse critics and
applauding his appreciators. Mr. Broom-
field’s paper was the principal ingredient of
the Fellowship of Australian Writers’ party;
it was beautifully written, and lit with the
fires of humor and enthusiasm. It covered an
immense area and was filled with detail only
found in a work of love, It might with
advantage be printed as a pamphlet by the
Fellowship. But, oh, the seats of the list-
eners were hard! Following Mr. Broom-
field, Lord Beauchamp took the stage. He
read English lyrics in a tone that was shy
of all lilting cadence, yet produced the
rhymes like unexpected sugar-plums. He
made you feel that writing poetry was just
as manly an occupation as shooting a bird
or a breaker, or flying solo from England
to Sydney, like Amy Johnson.
The Earl looked rather hot in a
grey lounge suit, with a l’ed flower in his
buttonhole. The night was warm and sliii.
Through the open windows the stars could
be seen fluttering above St. Mary’s and Hyde
Park, for this time the Fellows met in the
Forum Club. Marjorie Quinn, in blue moires,
a cape of real rose point swinging from
her shoulders, looked as symmetrical as a
lyric, as she stood waiting for Russian bari-
tone Elin and pianist Edith Kilminster to
end their tuneful interlude. The Bulletin's
Frith was there with his sketch-book and
his fiancee. Mary Gilmore was wrapped in
a bright shawl, and nature-lover Chisholm
looked as rapt as though Fred Broomfield’s
oration were the song of the bellbird.
Perhaps Rod Quinn’s quaint little story
of the days when Lawson and he and the
Earl were young was the joy of the evening.
Rod told how he met Frank Mahony, the cele-
brated painter of horses. He went on naively
to say that the artist must have found some-
thing equine in his looks, for he immediately
asked Rod to sit for his portrait. “Which I
did,” added Rod, “Mahony every now and
then breaking off to paint a ’bus horse, and
coming back to me with renewed inspiration.”
Anyhow the portrait was hung in the Royal
Art Society, and Mahony claimed that Earl
Beauchamp, then the State’s Governor,
declared it a speaking likeness.
This Letter’s friend Hector Macquarrie
refuses to be downed by adversity; rather
he turns himself into the somebody to whom
the ill wind must bring good. He was on the
Tahiti when that good ship foundered. But
Hector took a movie of the sinking, and when
last heard of had given some lectures on it,
with pictures; he also had press articles
accepted. His only great loss was the Baby
Austin in which he and his friend had
travelled from Sydney to Cape York. That
went down, but the proprietors very gener-
ously handed over a brand-new one.
Last week artist Lionel Lindsay and his
wife returned to Sydney after two and a half
years abroad. They have been in England,
France, Spain, Algeria, Tunis and India,
and Lionel has painted and sketched every-
where, including even the river-reaches about
Benares. But the Indian, melancholy and
oppressed with a burden that is not the
product of British rule but goes back for
centuries, the Sydney artist could not bear
to paint. The Thibetan Chinese with his
laughing face caught the artist’s fancy as
much as the Arab with his humor, his easy
carriage and his eager look. In Venice
Lionel sketched or painted every day in a
gondola till bronchitis laid him low, but it
was Algeria that vanquished Mrs. Lindsay
and gave her asthma. The pair were at Delhi
for the famous horse show, where dealers
from the world over foregather and for
weeks ahead there’s not a room to be booked,
and they spent last Christmas with daughter
Jean, now Mrs. N. G. Charley, whose hus-
band (a former Sydneyite) is resident
agricultural engineer at Coimbatore —a sort
of Hawkesbury College institution. Here,
aided with wines and French delicacies
gathered at Pondicherry, the family had a
gay reunion last Christmas. In March or
April Mrs. Charley is coming back on a
six-months’ visit to her father and mother.
The son, left behind in London, is set up in
a Chelsea flat furnished with Georgian
pieces collected by Mrs. Lionel.
This Letter couldn't help thinking the
other night that Robert Browning might
have made a poem, but Noel Coward has
failed. to make a play, out of ‘‘The Queen
Has in the Parlor.” In the last act, true,
there are a passionate love affair, a suicide
and a revolution, but as these all take place
off-stage they weren’t very exhilarating to
the blood or the fancy, and the audience
trickled out from St. James’s in a despondent
fashion. The players were members of the
Independent Theatre group. Doris Fitton, as
the young Queen, had a part that is indeed
an actor’s pot full of honey. She was on the
stage all the time, except on the five occa-
sions on which she changed from one
luscious garment to another. She wore
wonderful clothes with all the effect the
small stage permitted. Her wdiite betrothal
robe and train were a masterly affair of cut
and line, and kept the onlookers busy during
a whole scene trying to figure out how Jean
Patou had done it. It was the most womanly
audience, incidentally, this writer has ever
seen. Roughly speaking, there was about
one male to every three rows of women.
The red-and-gold lounge suit worn in the first
act by the young Queen, who was just being
lassoed back to her kingdom from the be-
ginnings of a very promising affair in Paris,
received an ovation.
At the Institute of Journalists’ lunch last
week, Brunsdon Fletcher, still palpitating
from his visit to the Press Conference, con-
veyed liis listeners in imagination, through
the Indian Ocean, the Red Sea, the
Bay of Biscay, and on to Southampton,
Tilbury or wherever the Orontes emptied.
The journey took up quite a slice of
the speech time, and cut off prematurely
the little editor’s really interesting reminis-
cences of worth-while people he had met.
Historian Charlie Bean, to whom the lunch
was a congratulation on his new doctorate of
letters, isn’t so far removed from active pen-
pushing days as not to remember that his
brethren are yet bowed to the yoke of
editions. So he did a lightning outline of
his work on the A.I.F. epic and gave thanks
for the blessings in friendship and matri-
mony that had fallen liis way; he can say
things in the most manly way that would
make another man sound a rank sentimen-
talist. German journalist Kurt Offenburg
was another at the top table'in Farmers’
small dining-room.
Ken Webb, who was found dead beside his
somersaulted car last week in Bathurst, was
an exceedingly popular figure in Sydney
amateur theatrical circles before he went to
practise as an architect in Bathurst. Ken
was an ex-soldier, and for some time after
the war was an assistant-lecturer at Sydney
Uni., where he helped to produce many
locally-staged shows. He was well known in
art circles.
This is Manchester-born Howard Carr,
music composer and operatic conductor. He
will direct General Motors’ orchestra at to-
night’s concert at the Town Hall in aid of
the United Charities, at which Don
Bradman will make his first public appear-
ance in Sydney since liis return to an idolis-
ing Commonwealth. Thirty-two years ago
Howard, then
a youth of 18,
abandoned the
study of civil
engineering to
take up theat-
rical conduct-
ing, commenc-
ing his career
with the baton
at Car lisle.
For many
years he was
associated with
numerous Lon-
don produc-
tions, and in
1906 was
brought to
Australia by
J. C. William-
son for two
years to con-
duct light
opera. While
here he composed interpolated numbers and
ballets for many of the productions. He
is part-composer of “The Lilac Domino,”
“Shanghai,” “The Boy and the Girl” and “The
Blue Kitten”; his symphonic works include
“The Jolly Roger,” “Three Heroes” and “The
Jovial Huntsmen.” He married Beatrice
Tracy, formerly The Bulletin’s Melbourne
Chatterer. Since his return to Australia last
year he has been in charge of many import-
ant orchestral concerts. Sydney remembers
the sterling work he did for the unemployed
professional musicians in this regard.
Muriel O’Malley, the Longreach (Q.) girl
who won the Ethel Pedley travelling scholar-
ship four years ago, will uplift her fine con-
tralto. The two-liour programme will also
include community singing. Genera] Motors
will present Don Bradman during the even-
ing with a Chevrolet sports model roadster,
and a similar car will also be handed by
the same firm to the United Charities fund.
To-day sees the wedding of Miss E. B.
Taylor, the popular matron of St. Luke’s, to
Mr. Archie Gibson. Last week the nursing
staff of the great C. of E. institution fare-
welled her with flowers and song, served, so
to speak, on a silver salver. This was a
gift from the nurses; a silver hot-water jug
came from the domestic staff. Sister Shear-
man acted as hostess, and in addition to the
company of doctors and nurses welcomed
Padre and Mrs. G. A. Lucas, of St. John’s
in Darlinghurst.
At Harry Hangar’s show in the Mac-
quarie Galleries Lionel Lindsay held court
the day after his arrival, and this Letter
heard him tell Will Ashton that Will’s Snow
Scene on Kosciusko was, to his mind, the
finest of its kind in the Royal Academy.
Will Ashton is perhaps the only artist
painting snow in Australia, and in contrast
to the extraordinary clarity of our atmo-
sphere the result is certainly arresting.
There’s no snow in Harry Dangar.’s pic-
tures. H'e has constituted himself the artist
of Bacchus Marsh. He has painted its pop-
lars, its hills, its bridges, its fields and hay-
stacks in the most friendly fashion, till you
feel you’d like to, go tramping down its
roads straight into a red-gold sunset or
into a golden harvest moon. Harry Dangar
is an example of the artist persisting in a
man in spite of his energies being diverted
into another channel. For Mr. Dangar
spent quite a little time in the Imperial
Army; he held a commission in a cavalry
regiment. That’s no doubt responsible for
his upright carriage.
Here is dear little Vinia de Loitte, whose
head under her attractive wig is bursting
with ideas to help unemployed theatricals.
Vinia is remembered as a musical-comedy
actress wh o
.shone in Gil-
bert and Sul-
-liv a n roles.
She is the
young widow
of Howard Ver-
non, famous
in the works
of the same
masters, and
the distress in
the profession
is a problem
she has set
herself to help
solve. She
has rented the
yEolian Hall
for every Wed-
nesday even-
ing, commenc-
ing to-day, till
Christmas, and
here her com-
pany of entirely, out-of-work artists will put
on a bright show as full of beans as of
novelties. The cast will be changed each
week, and whatever is made will be equally
divided a day or two after each performance.
Telephone WlBl3 is Miss de Loitte’s number,
and the iEolian Hall is next door to the
Criterion Theatre in Pitt-street. Monte Luke
picture.
Death claimed Captain James Christie, an
old Mosman resident, last week. He is
mourned by a widow and three children, the
best-known of them to Inky Wayfarers being
William, now Sydney representative of the
Melbourne “Herald,” an ex-Duntroon man,
and at one time a gallant gunner major in
the A.I.F.
A sad visitor to Sydney these days is Miss
Ella O’Shea, from Brisbane, keenly distressed
over brother Ted’s death and brother Pat’s
recent illness. She is staying with her old
friends the Norman Popes, of Manly. The
O’Sheas are one of the oldest families
in the northern capital, as they are one of
the most hospitable. There are hundreds
of Sydneyites who have sampled the kindli-
ness of their home on the river.
A group of reproductions of sunlit and
shadowful Australian land- and sea-scapes in
Christmas-card size and complete with greet-
ings has been issued by “Art in Australia.”
Among the artists who take kindly to this
treatment are Harold Herbert, Howard Ash-
ton, Heysen, Leist, Gruner and Hilder • Hil-
der is represented by his lyrical “White
Bridge.” Howard Ashton’s “Nightpiece in
Green” might have had its inspiration from
the lines in “The Bitterness of Love” :
I saw the waves and the moon;
I heard the unaltering murmur of the wind and
the sea and the stars.
Nothing could wish a happier Christmas to
friends at home and abroad than one of
these delights.
The older generation still talks of the
days and the plays when Walter Baker was
one of Australia’s matinee idols. Now he
is president of the Australian Actors’ Federa-
tion. Two months ago his youngest daughter
was married in Hong Kong to S. W. Cole-
man, of the Western Electric Company. As
Daphne Leigh, the bride starred in the Ban-
vard and Salisbury companies; she has made
good also in Great Britain and Australia,
and played lead in the Cochrane revues
“One Damn Thing After "Another” and
“The Blue Train.” Her mother is best known
in Sydney as an enthusiastic worker for
the Limbless Soldiers and other good causes.
In the warm stillness of last Wednesday
morning Padre Ivor Skelton, one-time chap-,
lain of 11.M.A.5. Australia, met Sylvia Wink-
worth, of Haberfield, at St. James’s Church
in King-street, marriage the objective. The
Rev. Robert Rook blessed the vows. Future
address of Mr. and Mrs. Skelton is Boonalv
Queensland.
Chryssa Crichton Imrie called into Sydney
on her way back to Maoriland from Asia,
where she has been spreading the doc-
trine of child welfare and helping to
develop markets between Enzed and China.
and Japan. Perhaps she is the only lecturer
who, out of compliment to her work, has
been invited to a party where a thousand
babies were assembled. This happened at
the Red Cross headquarters in Tokio, and
was the outcome of Miss Imrie’s talk to
mothers on the evils of carrying their babies
strapped to their shoulders; in graceful
acknowledgment of the address mothers and
nurses turned up carrying baby Western-
fashion. Japanese etiquette is a ceremonious
affair, as Miss Imrie found. On meeting the
lady of the house for the first time you
incline the body slowly; then you straighten
up and start the inclination all over again;
then come three short bows, visitor and
hostess each trying to contrive that the other
have the courtesy of the last one. The wife
of former Consul Shimizu (now a leading
light in Tokio), who is still remembered
here as a pretty creature and a smart
dresser, coached her old Sydney friend in
the procedure for Court circles and such
functions as her visit to the Peeresses’ School.
Here Miss Imrie was treated to two
afternoon-teas; one in the Japanese manner,
all tea and ceremonial, the other in our
grosser way, with beautiful sandwiches,
cakes, milk and sugar. She talked to Prince
Tokugawa, a relation of Sydney’s previous
Japanese Consul, and to the nation’s leading
film star. In Shanghai she was the lunch
guest of the Ys men. This is a group of
Chinese so alive to the necessity of healthy
children that they entirely support a baby
clinic. In fact, China is becoming imbued
with this child-welfare notion. The Maori-
lander was taken one day into the heart
of the Chinese quarter. When the car stopped
she found herself in a little square thronged
with people and decorated with paper-flies
and mosquitoes of all shapes and sizes, true
in every detail. The pictorial was the
quickest way, the doctors said, to bring the
lesson home to the unlettered mother. Never-
theless the babies of the poor are still liable
to be thrown into the river, and at the Sic-
cawei Convent in Shanghai unwanted babes
are exchanged for a few pence.
There was a real Inky Way wedding in
Berlin early this year when R. S. Panton,
of Sydney, married Natalia Nikolaevna
Snessareff. The ’groom is a son of C. S.
Panton, of George-street; he graduated at
Sydney Uni. and, after winning and holding
a job in English journalism, is now special
correspondent in Germany for a London
paper. Natalia is one of the Russian
nobility hunted out by the Reds, daughter
of Alexander Snessareff, who was managing
editor of St. Petersburg’s chief newspaper,
the “Nove Vrjemja;” He was Chief Mili-
tary Censor in Finland during the war, and
just managed to escape when the crash came.
The family went to London and lived on the
jewels which they had managed to take
with them. The two daughters were educated
in England, and came with their parents
to Berlin. The bride speaks English per-
fectly, as well as Russian, French and
German.
The Mayoress’s rooms next Monday after- '
noon will echo with music of crystal clarity
and sparkling beauty. The amiable Miss
Marks has loaned her fastness to the Racial
Hygiene Association, and under the direc-
tion of Mrs. Goodisson and Mrs. Mattei a
musical is being arranged. Each artist is
a star, and Mrs. Horace Sheller is among
the galaxy. Others who will scintillate are
tlie Faunce Allmans, Dorothy Ewbank, Mr.
Izal, Dagmar Roberts and Mattie Doyle.
A bright young debutante left one fashion-
able dressmaking firm in a state of palpita-
tion the other week. In reply to the firm’s
intimation that its spring models were now
ready to be trotted out for the gaze of
exclusive patrons, a beretted, slim brunette
arrived within the portals accompanied by
an older lady. Before them the mannequins
stood, turned, and walked slowly. Model
after model was brought out and examined
critically. At last the girl rose with a sigh
and murmured her thanks. The older lady
rose, too. The interesting pair were x taking
their departure when another youngster from
the same set breezed in. Her opening query
let loose nearly as much trouble as the
opening lid of Pandora’s box. “What were
Annabel and her dressmaker looking at?” she
demanded.
OVERHEARD.
She ( sentimentally ) : “He threw her a kiss.”
He: “Tossed his good-bye, in fact.”


yG * ts
5
W'
m
:
“That’s the last
time I’ll dance
with you,”
he thought
• 4 ♦ yet to be polite
he said , “Thanks for
K the dance*”
i
Good looking ... a good dancer
but “B. O.” killed her charm
(Body Odour)
r pHE girl of his dreams !So she seemed —at first glance.
A She danced wonderfully, too. Yet before the music
stopped, the dream had vanished.
" Thanks for the dance/' he murmured politely.
But how different his real thoughts ! He didn’t come near
her again all the evening.
A humiliating experience. But it could never happen
to Betty to-day. For she finally discovered what was
spoiling her attractiveness. “B. O.” — Body Odour l
And then she found an easy way to overcome this un-
pardonable fault.
Betty is now admired, sought after by everyone. Read
her story that follows.
" * B. 0/ certainly fooled me for a long time.
“ It was my doctor who told me why we're so rarely
aware of our own body odour. The sense of smell
becomes deadened to a familiar odour. But even on
cool days, the pores give off as much as a quart of odour-
causing waste, he said.
“ Now, on his advice, I always use Lifebuoy and never
worry about *B. O,' Lifebuoy's deodorising lather
purifies. You do feel cleaner, fresher after a Lifebuoy
bath.
Keeps complexion clear
44 Lifebuoy keeps my skin so healthy-looking, too.
And its extra-clean scent vanishes as you rinse. My
whole family enjoy using Lifebuoy,"
LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED
g
Lifebuoy
HEALTH
SOAP
stops body odour
2.105. S
fdg
MAKE YOUR OWN CLOTHES
AND SAVE THOSE EXTRA GUINEAS
** * ¥
A
Although the price of made-up clothes has come down, the
woman or girl who is handy with a needle can still save pounds.
THE
Woman’s Mirror Pattern Service
offers you each week a wide range to choose from. The
patterns are easy to follow, and are cut by experts.
Prices: Adults 1/-, Children 6d. Post free.
ALL NEWSAGENTS STOCK “THE WOMAN S MIRROR.” 3d. WEEKLY
fd
gfd


7hp cen/pe of Queens /a nc/s
C_^ gi cL/s/mgu/sLoc/ Soc/o/ Life.
rnennom
Mole I
g
Magnificent
rnom. Palm
Ball-
fmirt
room. raim V/Oun
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
TelegAone, Central BS2I1 —6 Lines.
Wentworth Hotel’s New Tariffs
Single Room, Bed and Breakfast, from 12/6
Single Room, Bath, Bed and Breakfast, from 157-
Single Room, Inclusive, from 20/-
Single Room, with Bath, Inclusive, from 22/6
Double Rooms are charged at Double Rates.
Private Suites Quoted on Application.
EVERY SATURDAY.
Dinner Dances, from 7.30 12/6
Supper Dances, from 8.30 8/6
Or a la Carte.
Afternoon Tea Dansant, from 3.30 3/-
&/>e WENTWORTH
Chtirch Hill, Sydney
Ml
Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner, <i
la carte, from 1/6. Inclusive tariff from 13/6 per
day; £4/4/- weekly. Special quotations for sport-
ing bodies, etc. Situated right opposite Spencer
Street Station, no taxi fares; railway porter carries
baggage across if necessary. Please write for detailed
tariff card. Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is sufficient
address.
Melbourne
Chetter
Buckley's
Clizabetlran
Tea Rooms
P[?] Contral 800[?]
Buckley C-Nunm limited
B[?]
The official tally of the attendance at
Flemington on Derby Day showed a big
falling-off in numbers compared to last year;
but to the casual onlooker there didn’t seem
much difference. A hot wind and much
dust did not dim the beauty of the window-
boxes bordering the grandstand, and the
cottage-garden blossoms made riot of color
along the facade. Roses red and white
twisted themselves about the stair-rails, and
standard roses were set in beds of yellow
and purple pansies and begonias. Ramblers
were festooned along the fence of the straight.
The drive into the members’ parking paddock
was an avenue of kaleidoscopic horticulture.
The temperature called for something light
in dressing, and gaily-figured diaphanous
materials had an outing. There was a pre-
valence of wallpaper designs in floral and
futurist pattenis, and a trend in some cases
to violent color contrasts. The stiff breeze
positively frolicked among frills, flounces and
flares, displaying abbreviated underwear and
emphasising the necessity for lengthier petti-
coats in these days of longer skirts. Large
hats, mostly banded with satin or velvet
ribbon, flipped and flopped distractingly in
the wind. The attempt to shoot Pliar Lap
increased interest in that great horse. He was
escorted to the barrier by a couple of mounted
policemen, who did not leave his side save
when he was actually racing.
The vice-regal enclosures were occupied,
though not by a full complement. The acting
G.-G. was there with Lady Somers, her Ex.
in an ensemble of check georgette in beige
and nigger tones, with a black ballibuntal
straw hat and a pointed fox fur. Lieut. -
Governor Irvine was accompanied by his
lady, who wore navy blue. The only visiting
vice-regals were the Hore-Ruthvens, of South
Australia, the lady wearing satin of mush-
room-brown tint with a hat of a darker shade.
Rear-Admiral Evans escorted Mrs. Evans,
whose nattier-blue millinery and flowered
chiffon of the same hue gave a touch of
brightness to a rather sombre group. Mrs.
R. G. Casey was one of those in the State
v.-r. box who chose black and white. Mrs.
L. K. S. Mackinnon, wife of the chairman
of the V.R.C., also sported the magpie color-
scheme. Mrs. lan MacDonald carried out
the same combination in a black satin skirt
allied to a pin-tqcked bodice of white satin
and a white felt hat. Mrs. A. E. V. Richard-
son, of Adelaide, was another who favored the
popular half-mourning. Her gown was
white georgette, embroidered in black, with
a short kimono-like wrap of similar style.
Mrs. Otway Falkiner, of N.S.W., had some
blue embroidery linking her white bodice to
a lower section of black, her millinery being
of the drooping order. Mrs. Ben Chaffey
aired a filmy frock patterned in grey and
black, and Mrs. Aubrey Gibson and Mrs.
T. J. Ryan wore ensembles of pale grey.
Mayoress Luxton was in a flounced frock of
nutmeg-brown with same-colored straw hat.
There were many gowns of figured materials
in which were mingled the hues of wallflower
and nasturtiums, Mrs. G. A. Fairbairn, Mrs.
U, J. Nicholas and Mrs. J. Merrillees being
among the wearers of these fabrics. There
were a few spotted gowns, the spots for the
most part being of the pin variety, and
navies, blacks and browns made backgrounds
for the speckles. White gowns were few.
One girl all in white chiffon with a white
straw hat varied the effect with a primrose
yellow parasol. Sunshades, frilled and
fringed in some cases, were carried by many.
Visitors from Sydney were Mrs. Pat Osborne,
the Knox lady and daughter Elizabeth. Mr.
and Mrs. Cecil Palmer, just back from over-
seas travel, Mrs. Eyres and Mrs. Maurice
Barry came from Queensland.
Cup week threatens to be rather dull in
comparison with the glories of the past,
social functions will be few. Lord and Lady
Somers issued invitations for a ball and
garden party. In the past both the G.-G. and
the State Governor have provided such enter-
tainments, but now the jobs are amalgamated
the functions are merged.
The Cup antedates the V.R.C. The first
race for it was in 1861 when Archer won,
and the V.R.C. was formed in 1864, combin-
ing the Port Phillip Turf Club and the Vic.
Jockey Club. The late R. C. Bagot,
engineer and surveyor, one of the founda-
tion members and the first secretary, was
largely responsible for the layout of the
course, and the members’ old stand beneath
the hill is still referred to affectionately as
.Bagot’s Cowshed.” It was Bagot’s ambi-
tion to see an attendance of 100,000 for a
Lup meeting, and this was gratified in 1880,
a year before his death.
There was a soft pedal on the gaiety of
the Naval and Military Club’s Ball on Derby
eve, and the decorations were sparse, but
the crimson mess-jackets of the military
made up for the lack of garden stuff around
the Town Hall ballroom. The stage was
massed with ferns and pot plants mixed with
red azaleas and draped with the Royal blue
and crimson colors of the club. General
Monash, the president; General Blarney,
Wing-Commander Cole, Colonel J. M. Sem-
mens and Major Ryan formed a reception
committee and greeted Lord and Lady
Somers, who were ushered in with a fan-
fare of trumpets. Her Ex.’s ninon gown
dipped to a double-pointed train, and the
pattern of cubist design blended tones of
green, salmon-pink and black, with a glitter
of rhinestones on the shoulder-straps. Mrs.
Ron McDonald, who was in the v.-r. party,
was in graceful raiment of white satin. Rear-
Admiral Evans was accompanied by Mrs.
Evans, whose fairness was set off by black
lace, draperies. Mayoress Luxton and Mrs.
Adrian Cole also chose black. Commander
Ireland’s wife looked attractive in a caped
chiffon gown of lily green. Surgeon-Captain
Darby ,was there with his bride, a Sydney
girl, and also from Sydney were Mrs. Wil-
fred Fairfax, in powder-blue lace, and her
daughter Margaret, in a flimsy frock of
cream lace. Mrs. John Collins, whose hus-
band is on the Anzac, was a petite figure
in white satin. A preference for very large
patterns was a feature of the floral and
figured dresses, the most striking of which
was worn by Sheila Morell, who had im-
mense black roses on a background of green
and red. Judith Avery, of Queensland, wore
taffeta of sweet-pea pink, and Miss L. Bent-
witch was one of those who favored black-
and-white.
The only money-raising activity of “Animal
Week,” sponsored by the Animal Welfare
League, was a ball at the Rex. Lord and Lady
Somers were there, she in chiffon that blen-
ded black, grey, cherry and biscuit shades. A
posy was presented to her Ex. by the presi-
dent, Mrs. Norman Brookes, who was attired
in a caped frock of filmy lace of ficelle tint.
Mrs.. Lort Smith, the organiser, danced in
midnight-blue chiffon, Joan Chirnside, ticket
sec., sported red-and-white chiffon. The hon.
treas., Mrs. James Purves, was robed in
black lace. Her sister, Florrie Green, Mrs.
H. J. Feakes and Mrs. Fred Krcrouse ran
a novelty stall. Mrs. U. J. Nicholas, in
scarlet chiffon and matching footwear, and
Doris Moffatt, in black lace, were others who
lent a hand with money-making side-
lines. Mrs. Harold Clapp, swathed in black,
directed cabaret turns. There was a pre-
ponderance of coats, worn with frocks of
flowered or patterned transparent materials,
featured in every case by sleeves, with a
very wide frill. Hitherto such coats have
been reserved for bridge parties, and their
appearance in the ballroom is a novelty. Only
two girls went in for backless dresses. Biddy
Tallis, just returned from the other side
of the world, wore pale pink chiffon with
a bolero. Mrs. G. A. Fairbairn sported corn-
flower-blue and Mrs. Jim Fairbairn chose
black lace. Mrs. Neville Fraser looked smart
in flame-colored satin. Mrs. Rodney Segrave
wore a jade-green necklace with her white
satin gown, and several others relied on
colored beads to liven unpatterned frocks.'
Among Cup Week visitors from Sydney were
Mrs. Wilfred Fairfax, her daughter Mar-
garet and Anne Gordon.
The thoughtful gaze here depicted belongs
to Mrs. Keith Roberts, known in the musical
world as Freda Manners Sutton, a young
pianist of
much promise,
who recently
gave a recital,
choosing as
the principal
number the
Brahms varia-
tions on a
Paganini
theme. She
studied firstly
under Sybil
Hull and later
with Margaret
S u t h e r 1 and
and Nellie
Billings. For
several years
she was a
pupil of
Edward Goll
and gained her
diploma at the
Uni. Con. The
portrait comes from the Dickinson-Monteatn
studio.
Lady Somers, on her way to the Military
and Naval Club Ball, looked in at St. Kilda
Town Hall, where there was a dance for
school-boys and -girls in connection with
Marion Montgomery’s dancing class. There
were about 800 dancers, and the profits went
to the Animal Welfare fund, of which her
Ex. is president. Mrs. Norman Brookes was
there, in poppy-red ninon with white blos-
soms trailing over one shoulder. Miss Mont-
gomery had a sparkle of diamente upon a ■
gown of black tulle, and her sister, Mrs.
Lort Smith, danced in georgette and lace of
cornflower-blue.
St. John’s, Toorak, was crowded when
Valerie Moule and John Fitz Gerald Fairfax,
of Sydney, exchanged vows. The handsome
bride, youngest daughter of the Arthur
Moules, of Toorak. wore a clinging. robe of
magnolia-toned satin with a long train merg-
ing from the much-flared skirt. Silk tulle
of the same tint as' the veil was fastened to
a coronet of orange buds, and a bouquet of
orange blossoms was carried. The ’maids,
Margaret Fairfax, Anne Gordon and Joan
Dowling, were in pink organdie muslin,
frilled from waist to ankles with bebe bodices
finished with velvet ribbon sashes of a deeper
shade. Large Leghorn hats with a backward
tilt, bandeaux of velvet and bouquets of
roses completed the picture. Sheila and
June Dalrymple, in similar attire, and their
little brother John, in pink linen, carried
their aunt’s train. The wedding feast was
spread at No. 9. when the bridegroom’s
parents, Dr. and Mrs. Wilfred Fairfax, and
Mr. and Mrs. Moule did the honors. In the
Sydney contingent of guests were the Knox
lady and her daughter Elizabeth, Misses M.
Fairfax and J. M. Brennan, aunts of the
bridegroom, Mrs. Laidley Dowling and the
John Martins.
This is Mrs. Head, wife of our arch-
bishop, who looked her first on this city
when she came here with her husband, who
had been at
the Lambeth
Confer enee,
last week. At
the welcome
given the
couple at the
Home Mission
festival, when
8000 people as-
sembled, Mrs.
Head made a
neat speech,
though she
has not yet en-
tirely recov-
ered from the
effects of an
o p eration
undergone be-
fore she left
England. She
found an old
friend here in
Miss Gilman
Jones, headmistress of the Church of Eng-
land G. G. S. They were fellow-students at
Newnham College, Cambridge, and were for
a time teachers together in a Birmingham
school.
Five bridesmaids in swathings of peach-
pink georgette, topped by crinoline straw
hats of willowy green, attended Muriel
Dyson, when she kept her tryst with George
Anderson at St. John’s, Toorak. She wore
white satin, flared of skirt and long of sleeve,
the simplicity of the gown being relieved by
some interludes of Brussels lace, which also
mingled with tulle in her veil. Congratula-
tions were offered at a dinner at No. 9.
The new matron is the elder daughter of
the late H. W. Dyson of Melbourne, and
Mrs. J. G. Thrower, of Lomur Hall, Reser-
voir, and the bridegroom is only son of the
George Anderson couple, of Lansell-road,
Toorak.
Irene, daughter of the Richard H. John-
sons, of Hawthorn, had soft pink under her
white satin robe and veil of silk net when
she married John Clinton, only son of Mrs.
J. Symington Buntine, also of Hawthorn.
The dresses of the matron of honor, Mrs.
John Wareham, and the ’maid, Victoria Bun-
tine, were of pale rose shade, and their felt
hats of matching shade carried a bit of blue.
There was a reception at the Windsor.
The Australian Art Association’s show at
the Athenaeum Gallery was to have been
launched by Lord Somers, but other duties
forbade, and Lud Mayor Luxton had to hop
into the breach. The show is rich in por-
traits of women —ladies in evening frocks,
pink, blue and lime green. Nellie
Stewart, as depicted by Mclnnes in the role
of King Charle’s favorite, has pride of place.
Mclnnes also shows a quaint portrait of a
kiddy, in white frock and blue sash, a collie
dog and landscape background after the
Gainsborough fashion. Another canvas
depicts Mrs. Morthill, in a Paton-pink
satin gown ; it was painted by Connie Parkin,
who won the Travelling Scholarship of the
National Gallery, and will sail for Europe
soon.
The Artists’ Society show, staged in its
own gallery, was launched by Dr. Stanley
Argyle, who was accompanied by his lady.
Sculptor Paul Montford took the place of
president Douglas Richardson, who is on
the sick list. The Leader of the Opposition
traced the history of art in Vic. from the
clays when black-and-white draughtsmen were
the only practitioners. Then came a couple
of convict painters, followed by artists from
overseas, who were imported to paint the
domiciles and live-stock of the first squatters.
One of the pioneers of art in this State was
Mrs. McCrae, mother of Gordon, who was a
miniature painter of renown in the ’forties.
The conversazione, held at the society’s gallery
as a side-line to the show, was an informal
affair, at which Hoffman’s orchestra furn-
ished an accompaniment to comments on the
pictures. Mrs. J. M. Muntz Adams is
represented by a self-portrait and a land-
scape, her first efforts after a long illness.
Proud parents and relatives and friends
of the young mummers filled the Playhouse
on Thursday night, when the Scottish comedy
“Marigold” was performed by the senior
girls of Clyde Girls’ School, Woodend. The
play, which has as one of its incidents a visit
of Queen Victoria and her Albert to Edin-
burgh and which had a successful run in
London recently, was admirably staged under
the supervision of Miss Allie Robson. The
girls who took male roles wore their bifur-
cated garments with a swagger. Only one
man took part in the piece, a piper, who sup-
plied the music for a reel danced by Mari-
gold and three military personages. The
frocks were puffed, panniered and hooped
and topped by large coalscuttle bonnets. The
E. M. Pearces’ daughter Elaine was the
heroine, donning, first, yellow-sprigged mus-
lin, and then myriads of frills of pale-pink
net with an apple-green satin jacket and
flower-decked bonnet. Barbara Davies as
Mrs. Pringle showed a lot of dramatic abil-
ity, and graced a gown of powder-blue silk
and velvet and a bonnet with pink roses.
Laurels were earned also by Mona Rogerson,
Katrine Elder, Elizabeth Dutton Green and
Patricia Stuart. Bushels of roses went over
the footlights at the curtain’s fall.
Mr. and Mrs. Howard Lewis lent their
garden for a fete, of which the Presbyterian
Babies’ Home, East Melbourne, was the
financial beneficiary. Their daughter Amy,
who is a ministering angel at the hospital,
organised the thing, and among the features
were dancing by comely young folk under the
direction of Elsa Perrins and eurhythmic
exercises controlled by Mrs. Gillies.
The principal feature of the National Rose
Society’s show was a magnificent display of
deep red blooms. There was a sparsity of
pure white blooms. The hardiness of the
Victorian rose was exemplified by the fact
that although the day before the show was
filled with gales and rainstorms, the exhibits
have never been excelled for quality or quan-
tity. The championship went to “Dame
Edith Helen,” a glowing pink variety. Mr.
S. E. Frederick, of Hampton, was the
grower. In Alister Clark’s non-competitive
display, his new variety, “Amy Johnson,”
which is salmon pink and richly perfumed,
claimed a lot of attention. Lieut.-Governor
Irvine’s lady spoke the prelude.
The Lyceum Club’s now piano had a debut
at the hands of tire L.A.B. Music Club ou a
recent evening. Harry Isaacs and Edgar
Bainton, Londoners, who are here as
examiners for the Associated Board, pro-
vided the musical fare. Mr. Isaacs played
works by Bach, Brahms, Chopin and Rach-
maninoff, and his colleague followed with a
breezy dissertation on music and musicians,
illustrating his remarks with excerpts from
Bach, Scarlatti and Handel, and some of the
moderns. Mrs. K. E. Mackay has lately
taken over the duties of hon. sec. of the club
in place of Sybil Hull, who had held office
since the inception.
The talk was all of plaidies and of clans
at the Windsor when Scots of the city
met for a social evening. President Peter
Sutherland was played in by the pipe band ;
he was accompanied by his wife, whose gown
was of bracken-brown georgette. Ella Riddel]
and violinist Margery Gray were among those
who furnished a programme of music, and
W. A. Tainish talked about Scottish litera-
ture. Knight William Brunton and Mr. and
Mrs. Watson Robertson were there.
A full house at the Comedy on Saturday
night appreciated the humor of “The Road
to Romance.” Edith Taliaferro in the rQle
of Amytis, the young wife of Fabius
Maximus, looks adorable and guileless in a
white Grecian robe and sapphire-blue toga,
and still more so in a peacock-green satin
gown with key pattern decoration in crystal.
Nellie Mortyne, as a disagreeable mother-
in-law, and Donalda Warne, as a slave, are
the only other women in a big cast. The
staging is most picturesque. Horticulture
lay in piles at the feet of the trio at the
final curtain.
The new shop and tea kiosk at Queen Vic-
toria Hospital was declared ready for busi-
ness by the president, Mrs. Norman Brookes.
It is on the Lonsdale-street side of the
grounds—a picturesque little building of
Spanish architecture with trimmings of
cobalt blue and miniature cypress-trees upon
the porch. Among those who have volun-
teered for service there are Ida Doubleday,
president of the Kiosk Auxiliary, the hon.
sec., Mrs. McCracken, and the hon. treas.,
Mrs. A. E. Macgregor.


Children’s Hospital No. 2 ART UNION
(ROYAL ALEXANDRA),
DRAWN ON DECEMBER 20, 1930.
Tickets 1/2
POST FREE.
Books of 12
can be had on
application.
Send at once.
Buy NOW!
By permission of the Honorable the
A l torney-General.
Lighten the
dark times of
the little kiddies
who are in
hospital. They
depend on your
sympathy.
FIRST PRIZE: Wonderful Necklace of Diamonds valued at £5OO.
SECOND PRIZE: Morris Minor Saloon Motor Car ([1930 model), £246 10s.
THIRD PRIZE: Beautiful Trousseau valued at £lOO.
TOTAL VALUE OF PRIZES OVER £lOOO.
Apply to Hon. Sec., Box 4200 XX, G.P.0., Sydney.
aa LEIPZIG SPRING AA
P% TRADE FAIR, 1931
(GERMANY).
Incorporating Great Engineering Fair until March 11.
The Greatest Trade Exhibition in the World.
Despite the heavy and almost impossible Australian tariff legislation, Australian
business men and oversea buyers can profitably visit the 1931 Spring Fair at
Leipzig.
German manufacturers have marked their goods at such prices as to make
all purchases at the Spring Fair sell at a profit.
This means that the middleman is eliminated, and you deal direct with the
manufacturer. '
The Great Spring Fair begins on MARCH 1, 1931.
INQUIRIES INVITED. All Official Data, Transport Concessions, Hotel Accom-
modation, Rail Service, etc., including Letters of Introduction, will be gladly
given—free of cost.
A uthorised Representatives:
LARS G. BRUNDAHL,
121 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
(’Phones: 84006 and MW2201)
C. N. KEPPEL,
Box 585 D, G.P.0., Melbourne, Vic.
BREAK O' DAY
BY JOHN CRISP
Illustrations by Scorfleld
PART I.
Chapter I.
THE whaler was hove to, and a boat
manned by four men, the mate at
the tiller, pulled away to starboard.
A small craft, apparently derelict, had been
sighted about a mile away on the starboard
bow. A strange thing to sight in those
waters on the last day of August in the
year 1837. The whaler was urgent in her
need of fresh water, and had beaten up
against the wind to make the mouth of
the Rewa-Rewa River, which meets the
Pacific Ocean at the south-east of the
South Island of New Zealand. But an
hour since land had been sighted. The
sun, soon after it was risen, had dispelled
the bleak wet mist that chilled men to the
marrow, disclosing to the whaler a panorama
of mountain peaks, distantly blue, with a
foreground, sketchy through the vapor, of
dark green promontories and narrow inlets.
Though their need of fresh water was so
urgent, the crew, the master with a tele-
scope at his right eye, watched with
patience the mate’s boat go out to the
derelict; then they watched it return, tow-
ing the waif at its stern. Briskly they
lowered a rope to fasten about the body of
an emaciated giant who sprawled in the
stern of the cutter, and when they had
hauled the unconscious form to the deck
they saw that he was a white man. They
saw, too, as they tended him, that he wore
what appeared to be bracelets; but when
they looked again, the bracelets turned out
to be a deep purpling scar that encircled
each wrist. And as they wrapped warm
clothing about his body, they saw great
stripes lying cross-wise over his back. And
presently, the master having forced grog
between his teeth, he opened his eyes and
said, “By name o’ Digby.”
Chapter 11.
Daniel Digby’s outstanding characteristic
was acquisitiveness. In the year 1830, when
he was but a youth, he had been transported
from an English fishing village to Tas-
mania for the term of fourteen years. Dan
Digby, like his father before him, had been
a fisherman, but, dissatisfied with his earn-
ings, he had taken to smuggling as a side-
line.
Having served some six years in the
chain gang, Dan escaped from Tasmania to
the mainland, thence made his way to the
newly-found settlement of South Australia.
He arrived in Adelaide early in the year
1837, when the Colony had been existent
but a few months. A mighty figure of a
man (he stood six feet five inches, and was
justly proportioned throughout) who could
turn his hand to most things, he was
welcomed at the new settlement where
labor was at a premium and no questions
were asked.
Digby early discovered that not a few
of the laborers in the new 7 colony were in
like case to himself. Although the lags
worked and lived with the colonists, they
were not of them. Consequently during
the hours of leisure they found themselves
a coterie apart, whose chief pleasure con-
sisted in meeting in this shanty or that
to drink rum. Thus not infrequently the
public peace was disturbed, and on one
occasion a riot broke out in the public
thoroughfare. The guardians of the peace
were a small force of marines from H.M.S.
Buffalo. The Sheriff marched them to the
scene of the disturbance and gave the order
to fire, and some of the rioters were
wounded. Dan Digby received a slug in
the calf of his right leg.
A fortnight later, with two of his mates,
Digby, when darkness had fallen, stole to
the door of the Sheriff’s hut. The door was
ajar sufficiently to disclose the figure of the
officer seated a.t his table reading a book.
Digby discharged a pistol full at his head
and blew the unfortunate gentleman’s ear
off. There was a hue and cry, and next
day Digby’s companions were taken. To
extenuate their guilt they gave up the
facts. Daniel Digby had disappeared, but
the colony was roused, and the Governor
called for volunteers to scour the country-
side.
Thus it was learned that Digby had got
as far as Encounter Bay and was working
at the whaling station. James Harford, a
resourceful and hardy young settler, with
two others, volunteered to go there to get
him. The Governor gave them the rank of
special constables ana placed Harford in
charge of the party. The constables
travelled overland on foot, through a rough
trackless country some ninety-five miles.
They made their destination on the eighth
day, ragged and bootless, and within an
hour of their arrival Digby was in hand-
cuffs and locked in his own hut.
The party, provisioned and clothed by the
manager of the station, set out on the
return journey with the prisoner hand-
cuffed to Harford.
For four days all went well. On the
morning of the fifth day they were about
to strike camp when Digby quietly informed
his escort that he intended to go no farther.
“Why th’ hell,” he replied to their aston-
ished looks, “should I go to Adelaide to
be hanged when I can take my chance in
the hills? At worst I can starve to death;
or if you like, j r ou can shoot me now—
and blast you!”
“Don’t be a fool, man,” Harford cajoled.
“You’re not convicted yet.”
But Digby shook his head. “I tell you
I’m as good as dead the minute I set foot
in the settlement. I ain’t got no chance.
I’ll be domned if I’ll be hanged, but I don’t
mind being shot. I’ll not move another
step.”
Harford, having taken counsel with his
comrades, announced to the prisoner the
escort’s intentions should he persist in his
refusal to move. Thfe alternative was so
dreadful that the constables were certain
that the prisoner, when he heard it, would
agree to march. “Look, Digby,” said Har-
ford, “we are not going to have your blood
on our hands. We won’t shoot you. But
this is what we’re going to do. If you
won’t budge we’re going to handcuff you
to that tree you are leaning against, and
we’re going to leave you there till we return
from Adelaide with the means to take you
there, if you’re still alive, when we get
back—which you won’t be. We’re not going
to leave you anything to eat or drink.
We’re short ourselves, and you’ve made us
shorter by this delay. Now what’s it to
be, me boy—Adelaide or the tree?”
To the escort’s astonishment Digby did
not hesitate. “I’ll chance the tree,” he said
in a firm voice.
Thereupon the constables seized him,
placed his back against the tree, drew his
arms around the trunk and handcuffed him.
The tree was of a girth that permitted him
to sidestep slowly around it.
The escort turned their backs on him and
walked off in the direction of Adelaide.
When they were out of the prisoner’s sight
Harford decided to give him another chance.
They called a halt, waited one hour, then
returned to the tree, thinking that a taste
of what was in store for him would make
the big fellow change his mind. They found
him seated uncomfortably on the ground,
his knees drawn up to his chin.
“Well,” spoke the leader, “we’ve come
back to give you another chance. You’ve
had enough of it already, haven’t you?”
“Harford,” Digby answered promptly, “I
tell you I wasn’t born to be hanged, so
get to Hell out o’ this!”
“Have some sense, man,” pleaded Har-
ford; “we can’t get back to you under
seven days at the least.”
“It’ll suit me fine if you never come
back,” jeered Digby. “Maybe the wild dogs
will get you before you get to the settle-
ment. and then we’ll all meet in Hell
together.”
“Is that your last word?” asked Harford.
“’Tis,” replied Digby with decision; “I’ll
stick to the tree.”
Without another w T ord the constables set
out for the settlement of Adelaide, to the
accompaniment of a running fire of gibes
from the abandoned giant; and as they
disappeared from view the silence of the
bush was broken by his full-chested derisive
iaughter.
Chapter 111.
From the moment of his capture Dan
Digby had resolved that, come what might,
he would not set foot again in Adelaide.
That journey could have but one end—
the hangman’s rope. He had watched out
day and night during the four days’ march
for a chance to evade his captors. None
presented itself, and every step taken was
a step towards the gallows. He could face
death, but not that death. When half the
journey was done he therefore decided to
try a freeze-out. Let the constables do
their worst. They had no means of con-
veying him. Better to be shot or starved
to death in the wild than scragged in
Adelaide gaol.
The escort’s decision to handcuff him to
a tree did not unduly perturb him. It was
not that he was wanting in imagination or
intelligence. He counted the risk. He would
take a chance on his great strength. He
would snap the gyves before the constables
returned with reinforcements.
Had he been vouchsafed a glimpse of the
horrors he was about to undergo he might
have chosen to mount the gallows.
Digby’s best qualities were bulldog ten-
acity and high- courage. He was now about
to exercise those qualities to the breaking
point. When , the constables left him for
the second time he knew they would not
return until they had procured the means
of carrying him to Adelaide. Nevertheless,
to succeed he must act quickly. He must
be free before hunger and thirst took their
toll of his stamina.
First, he must find out how much work-
ing-room he had. Slowly he sidled round
the tree, pace by pace. He must go care-
fully to avoid chafing the skin from his
arms and wrists.
He bent his knees and allowed his bulk
to drop gradually, very gradually, to a
sitting position at the foot of the tree. He
could rest thus, and the ache in his arms
was nothing much yet. As for rising again
—well, that was easy enough. He tried it
by pressing his arms tight against the bole
and taking the weight on his legs. Not
difficult, but it took some exertion. He
wouldn’t Dractise it too often.
Perhaps it would be as well to rest a bit
before he made his attempt to burst the
handcuffs. Again he slowly lowered him-
self to sit on the dry brown earth, his
back against the tree. He tried all the
positions that his handcuffs would permit
him, to discover the one that gave him the
least discomfort. He chose the sitting posi-
tion, with both heels on the ground, alter-
nated with the legs stretched out before him.
For quite a while he remained thus, listen-
ing to a pair of magpies discuss him as
they circled round him, making short flights
from tree to tree. Then he fell to cursing
himself for a fool—a fool to be taken at
Encounter Bay, just when his plans were
complete for an escape from the country.
During his three weeks’ sojourn at the
whaling station he had been busy with
preparations for sailing to New Zealand
in a cutter, which he proposed to steal. The
cutter was the property of the station. It
was in good trim, and rode at anchor well
within the bay. He and two others, who
also had excellent reasons for clearing the
country, had decided on the venture.
Everything was shaping well when Digby
was taken. It was their intention to pur-
loin the provisions necessary for the
voyage from the station storehouse; no
sort of a job at all, so easy could the place
be broken into. When the constables arrived
Digby and his mates were waiting only
for the moon to wane and a fair breeze to
carry them out of the bay.
The bad luck of it all haunted Digby as
he crouched at the foot of his tree, his
ears assaulted by the laughter of a jackass
that, saw in his dreadful plight only a source
of merriment.
Then Digby told himself that he must
begin. Time was precious. Yet he sat
there ruminating till he was conscious of a
very dry mouth and a hot, mounting sun.
Dan Digby told himself he was afraid of
failure; that he was putting off the moment
when he would measure his strength against
that of the iron gyves. They felt mighty
strong as he rattled them behind him against
the tree.
The jackass looked quizzically at him
from the branch and mocked his testing of
the manacles with laughter.
The blood rushed to Digby’s head. He
was again strong and fierce. He would
burst the things now and be on his way.
He heaved himself to his feet and poised
himself in the crouched attitude of a man
who would exert his last ounce of strength.
He closed his fists tight and felt his wrists
swell about the iron rings. He wrenched
the irons this way, that way; using the
trunk as a leverage; he twisted the rings
to impose on the connecting link the maxi-
mum of strain. He lashed himself to a
fury that he might not feel the pain of the
tormented tissue. The sweat poured from
his head and down the length of his bulk.
He threw himself forward with all his might,
as he twisted his wrists, jerking one down,
the other up. The iron bit into the flesh
and ripped the bark from the young tree.
Again and again he lunged forward, each
thrust accompanied by bellowed curses that
reverberated through the still wilderness
and were thrown back at him from the
mountain side. From his raw wrists blood
spurted, and, mingling with the sweat,
dropped in gouts from his finger-tips.
His hat had been jerked from his head
and lay hopelessly beyond his reach. He
was thus mercilessly exposed to the blister-
ing noonday sun. Then the flies found
him and made another ring about his tor-
tured wrists. They swarmed through his
matted hair and in the- hollows of his
streaming eyes. The magpies and jackasses
had been scared away; though the roared
curses of the tortured man had passed now
to mutterings and sobs. But still the gyves
did not break.
The fight with the irons was over. The
man had lost. He sank writhing to the foot
of the tree, his lacerated wrists crying out
against the outrage they had suffered.
With hope abandoned, and quivering with
pain, Digby lay at the foot of the tree
through the long afternoon, and it seemed
to him that the fierce sun focussed its
rays upon him alone. Unable longer to en-
dure the pain caused by shaking the flies
from his raw wrists, he left them free to
enjoy his wounds.
With sunset came the mosquitoes, fasten-
ing upon his face and hands and every
exposed part of him till the poisoned flesh
was afire. Maddening thirst painted pic-
tures for him of cool, deep rivers, till he
called out in his agony.
The answer was a yelp. The man opened
his eyes and stared about him, and on
every side the darkness was pierced with
little fiery balls.
Digby jolted himself to his feet, forgetting
his tortured wrists in this new terror. The
dogs were many and hungry, and they crept
nearer and nearer to him. He could hear
their panting on the hot night air; eyes
glowing everywhere and coming closer!
He braced himself against the tree, drew
in a long breath and shouted at the top of
a voice which sounded hoarse and broken;
and the eyes were gone.
“Not the dogs—no, no, not the dogs!”
he groaned.
But even as he prayed, the darkness was
stabbed with the pinpoints of light. He
shouted again, and again the darkness was
complete; but more quickly than before


o
ap
ml
w
MERCHANTS AND MANUFACTURERS!
QUEENSLAND
IS CALLING
’"THE great northern State beckons to your product these
difficult times, for Queensland is the bright spot in the
Commonwealth just now. If you would exploit the splendid
market offered by the Brisbane metropolitan area you must
advertise in
THE SUNDAY MAIL
QUEENSLAND’S GREAT WEEKLY.
This journal of character and distinction goes into the homes
of the people at a time when they have leisure to read, and
circulates mainly m the metropolitan area. It is read by a
majority of the readers of the several dailies published during
the week in Brisbane, and is companion journal to
THE DAILY MAIL
QUEENSLAND’S GREATEST NEWSPAPER.
Rate cards and particulars from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD., Queen Street, Brisbane; and
N.S.W. BRANCH: 72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should
know —-from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny -w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
ir
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
the dogs were back, moving around him,
and always coming closer.
He stamped around the tree to keep his
face to the dingoes. Every movement
racked him, but he stamped on. He heard
teeth snap beneath him, and glimpsed a
shape in the darkness. He kicked and
yelled, and there was the scuffle of the
pack in racing retreat.
But he had hardly breathed again when
he saw the floating fireballs in the black-
ness, and heard the panting shadows slink-
ing round him. He tried again to shout,
but now the red hot eyes remained. He
pleaded pitifully with the night. “Keep
them off me, O God! Keen them off me.”
But they only moved closer. He kicked
and heard the pack race, not away from
him any more, but about him.
Around the tree he went—stamp, stamp,
stamp. It was anguish, but he must cany
on. A moment’s pause and the pack would
have him.
Stamp, stamp, stamp kick snap!
Through the dark hours Digby revolved
round his tree, miraculously growing not
weaker, but stronger. The pain that had
been excruciating gradually dwindled away.
His body became taut and light. He no
longer feared the pack. He defied them
with snatches of songs he had learned as a
lad on the village green.
With the approach of dawn the dogs be-
gan one by one to slink away. But Digby
did not remark their going. He was no
longer concerned with wild dogs. Much
better to play the old games on the village
green, with boys chubby like himself and
rosy-cheeked girls. So Digby joined the
romping ring, and sang at the top of his
voice.
The last dog had Succumbed to the dawn;
but the man stamped drunkenly on, oblivi-
ous of the careful approach of two men
whose faces expressed much wonderment at
sight of the man and the tree.
Chapter IV.
Tom Hawke and Jem Hales, with their
boon companion Sandy Goss, had made a
rise in the new settlement of Adelaide by
.stealing cattle in the Black Forest.
Black Forest is to-day one of the most
desirable suburbs of the city of Adelaide,
but in the year 1837 it was primeval forest
and black, for the branches of the trees,
ages old, were so interlaced as to prevent
the sunlight on even the brightest day from
penetrating its depths. At this time the
timber extended from the hills almost to
the sea, and the settlers used the country
as a common for running their cattle.
Nature seemed to have arranged everything
on purpose to make it easy to steal them.
Hawke, Hales and Goss were old lags who
had made their way from the Sydney side
to the new colony, where their presence
was welcomed. There was much work to
be done, and brawn and muscle were in
demand. So that he behaved himself,
no one asked the stranger whence he came.
Thus the colony harbored some desperate
spirits: men whom the merciless lash had
embittered and who made not any effort
to rehabilitate themselves.
Such a one was Tom Hawke, tall, stringy,
flatnosed, with straw-colored hair, a receding
forehead and a cock eye. He was the leader
of the gang that plundered the settlers’
beasts from the Black Forest, making a
butcher his accomplice in finding a market
for the beef of the beasts that were slaugh-
tered. The gang carried on without inter-
ruption until their goings and comings in
the forest were remarked, and a vigilance
committee was formed by the settlers. One
night several cattle-owners came upon the
shambles where the thieves were dressing
two beasts by the light of slush-lamps. The
cattle-owners rushed the butchers. There
was a fight in which Tom Hawke struck
down a settler with a meat-chopper, and,
with Jem Hales, made good his escape.
Sandy Goss was taken.
There was nothing for it then but to fly
the colony, and to that end the fugitives
made for the hills, lifting anything in the
way of food that the countryside afforded.
Travelling by night and hiding by day,
Hawke and Hales cared little where their
journey ended so that they safely cleared
the colony of South Australia.
It was breaking day, the fourth of their
travels across the trackless hills. The fugi-
tives were seeking cover wherein to rest
and eat, when they were startled by the
sound of a man’s voice, hoarse and broken.
They stopped in their tracks, each hoping
that the other also had heard. The journey
had been a painful one. Their heads had
been always over their shoulders, fearful
of everything that moved. They were not
short „of food. Each carried portions of a
sheep they had killed on their first night
out. But their boots had given out and
their clothes were in rags.
“What’s that?” whispered Jem Haleß.
“Do you hear anything, Tom?”
Tom swallowed hard and ventured “ ’Tis
mighty strange. Sounds like a madman.”
Jem grabbed Tom’s arm and cringed
close to him. Two dingoes had crossed
his line of vision as they slunk through the
trees.
Jem, a chinless man, had been led all his
life, and he had been usually led astray.
He was much more knocked up than his
mate, and his nerves were frayed with
perpetual anxiety. “Good God!” he cried.
“What’s that? Look, through the trees
there!”
“Stop yer shiverin,’ ye blasted fool!
Them’s wild dogs. They don’t worry me,
but that hollerin’ does. Let’s go forward,
quiet, an’ see if we can make out what’s
hapnenin’.”
Using the trees as cover they crept to
within a few yards of the handcuffed giant,
who staggered around the gum-tree, blood
dripping from his fingers, his face swollen
so that the eyes were buried in his head,
and the tree itself ringbarked, where the
handcuffs had worn a ragged groove. Then,
simultaneously, they recognised him. They
had been well acquainted in Adelaide.
“By the holy smoke,” gasped Jem Hales,
“if it ain’t Dan Digby!”
Tom Hawke did not reply, but shouted at
the top of his voice, “Dan! Dan!”
The voice pierced Digby like an arrow.
He checked in his shuffling around the tree,
swayed and slumped back. His head fell
forward, the chin resting on his chest. The
handcuffs had caught in the grooved trunk,
holding the arms.
“Good God!” gasped Jem, as they rushed
forward to examine the captive. “He’s
crucified! ”
Tom Hawke unslung from his shoulders a
pack, and took from it the meat-chopper he
had used on the cattle-owner in the Black
Forest. Without a word he began to hack
down the tree, making a scarf a few inches
above the groove that held the handcuffs,
and had been made by them. It was tough
work attacking a gum-tree with a butcher’s
chopper, but they succeeded in bringing it
down without doing further injury to the
manacled man.
Digby quickly revived under the minis-
trations of his friends. Hawke contrived
to sever the two iron rings, but he could
not release them from Digby’s wrists. Ex-
periences on both sides were related, and
Hawke and Hales accounted themselves
fortunate that they had not run into Har-
ford’s. party on their way out from the
Black Forest.
When Digby heard from what they were
fleeing he made them an offer. “If you
fellows,” he said, “will throw in your lot
with me, I’ll get you not only out of this
colony, but right out of this cursed country
altogether.”
“You mean,” questioned Hawke, “clean
out of Australia?”
“Ay,” said Digby, “that’s what I mean.”
Hawke and Hales looked at Digby and at
each other, and their looks. questioned his
sanity; but Digby dispelled their suspicions.
“I’m not mad; leastways, not now,” he
said, wincing with pain. “When you found
me I was going mad; maybe I was mad—
I can’t remember what happened after the
dogs made at me the second time. I seemed
to go right back home to where I was born.
But don’t think I’m mad now, though I’m
sufferin’ the tortures o’ Hell. I tell you,
stick by me and we can all get out o’ this
blasted country, and quickly, too. And,
what’s more, Tom Hawke, you’re just the
man I want —you bein’ a sailor.”
“An’ ’ow is it all going to be done, Dan?”
put in Hales, his ferrety eyes narrowed with
expectation.
“I’ll tell you,” replied Digby. “You listen
to me. I was at the whaling-station three
weeks, and I kept me eyes skinned. If I
hadn’t been lagged unawares I would’ve
been half-way to New Zealand by this time;
everything was ready 0 my God,
Tom, go easy!” While Digby talked
Hawke washed and dressed his wounds;
a poignant process. “There’s a cutter,”
Digby continued, “as trim a little lugger
as you ever set eyes on, at the station,
anchored in the bay. She’s ready, every-
thing aboard, compass and all —everything
"‘Good God!’ gasped Jem, as they rushed forward to examine the captive.
‘He’s crucified!’”
’cept grub, and we can get that and plenty
of it from the storehouse. All we want is
a dark night and a fair breeze, because we
got to be out o’ sight by daybreak. What
do you say to that?”
“A fust-rate idea, mate,” said Hawke,
still wrapping rags about Digby’s wounds.
“It don’t matter none to me where I land,
so long as there’s plenty water atween me
and this hangman’s hole.”
“That’ll be grand.” enthused Hales,
“We’ll all make a fresh start in New Zea-
land, wot we can’t do here.”
“Good for you!” exclaimed Digby. “That
means we’re mates for good and all. But
there’s no time to be lost,” he added,
taking command of the venture. “The
bloodhounds’ll be on the track again for
me in a couple o’ days, and I expect they’re
already in full cry for you. Let’s move at
sunset. I’ll get along somehow.”
Such was the strength and determination
of Digby that at sunset he set off with his
companions on the long march to Encounter
Bay, and, assuming the leadership of the
desperate enterprise, he so conducted him-
self that his fellow fugitives, knowing of
the horrors he had so recently passed, were
amazed at his fortitude and physical resist-
ance.
There was now no need to hide by day.
The last human habitation was well behind
them. For three days they stumbled on,
keeping where possible the coastline in view.
Twice they struck water fit to drink, and
Digby rationed carefully what was left of
the mutton.
Although Digby suffered intensely from
his wounds, he not only did not complain,
but in difficult places assisted the weaken-
ing Hales, and one evening at sunset, the
fourth since they left Digby’s tree, from
a hilltop they saw through the branches of
the shimmering gums their destination;
and all three sank exhausted to the earth.
They slept till sunrise. Then, having
breakfasted on the putrid scraps of mutton
and finished the water they had carried,
they held a council of war.
Encounter Bay lay at their feet, the little
jetty running out from the whaling-station
like a thin line. They peered through the
branches as Digby pointed out the cutter,
not anchored in the harbor, as he had last
seen her, but moored at the end of the jetty.
They could see, too, the storehouse, the
manager’s residence and the men’s huts.
“She’s a tidy little vessel,” commented
Digby, “and she’ll carry us to where we 11
be safe. But I’ll tell you what it is, mates,
we must be off in her before to-morrow
sunrise. This place is none too healthy for
us, and it gets worse every hour,
I reckon what Dan says is correct,
Hawke agreed. Were like to be nabbed
any time. It s ten days now that Jem and
me have been on our travels an , you can
take it from me, them as wants us m ,rons
lai awdy ' „ .
u The statement so unnerved Jem Hales
* hat he jumped to his feet with an oath
(Continued on page 45.)


EOTHEN”
PAYING GUESTS
128 East Terrace
332 Wakefield St 1
ADELAIDE
UNEXCELLED CUISINE
GARAGE
nclutive Tariff, £4-4-0
“*• Central 528
Mr#. PARKER
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN A MACHINE FOR
FORMING AND GLUEING PAPER CUPS.
r T'H'E Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 15240/28 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Asbestos House, York and
Barrack Streets, Sydney. (Box 2133 L,
G.P.0., Sydney.)
IMPROVEMENTS IN METHOD OF
SOFTENING, SPINNING AND TWIST-
ING ARTIFICIAL SILK.
THE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 26320/25 is prepared to negotiate for
the sale of his rights in the above or for
the granting of a license to make, use and
vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Asbestos House, York and
Barrack Streets, Sydney. (Box 21338,
G.P.0., Sydney.)
IMPROVEMENTS IN THE METHOD OF
AND APPARATUS FOR FINISHING
CYLINDRICAL BEARING SURFACES.
THE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 4747/26 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of his rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Asbestos House, York andl
Barrack Streets, Sydney. (Box 2133 L, I
G.P.0., Sydney.)
Legal Notice,
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction,
No. 119 of 1930.
BETWEEN CHRISTINA ALICE VICTORIA HAENIG
Petitioner
And GEORGE FREDERICK HAENIG Respondent
To GEORGE FREDERICK HAENIG late of Manus
near Tunibarumba in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Christina. Alice Vic-
toria Haenig has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a dissolu-
tion of marriage on the ground that you have without
just cause or excuse wilfully deserted her and without
any such cause or excuse left her continuously so
deserted during three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office of
this Honorable Court on or before the thirtieth day
of January one thousand nine hundred and thirty-
one and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the Petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned Solicitors free of charge.
Dated this thirtieth day of October, 1930.
For the Registrar,
C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
WALSH & BLAIR, Solicitors for the Petitioner,
Tumbarumba, by their Sydney Agents, McDONELL
AND MOFFITT, Solicitors, George and Wynyard
Streets, Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE ~ ~ 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Get your Christmas publicity into
THE BARRIER MINER
before all the Christmas Presents
are selected. A booming Christ-
mas coming at Broken Hill and
the sheep district around.
4
5^
Bum A
7 t-
<w
ir'" 1
fS
n
5
The perfect gift.
Every woman longs to wear
that marvel of good taste
and aecuraey.... an Omega
wrist watch.
If you want your gift to be
appreciated - forever - let it
he an
Omega
EXACT TIME F
K LIFE
Rheumatism /
Rheumatism used to be considered an ailment due
to exposure; and it was thought natural that outdoor
workers should suffer from this painful trouble. New
knowledge has shown that rheumatism has little to
do with the weather, but is due to uric poison in
the blood. We now know that rheumatism affects
the heart, and almost all deaths from heart disease
in people under forty are due to rheumatic infection.
The remedy consists in getting rid of the uric poison,
and the best way to do this is to take Harrison’s
Pills. These pills include a combination of eight of
the most valuable agents known for the removal o!
uric poison and deposits and for the successful treat-
ment of kidney, bladder and urinary disorders. Har-
rison’s Pills give prompt relief from aches and
pains and a speedy return to normal good health
and fitness, even where all other remedies have
completely failed. Yet Harrison’s Pills cost but 2/-
for 18 pills; 3/- for 32 pills; or 5/- for 68 pills,
at any chemist’s. Insist on having Harrison’s Pills
and so quickly and safely drive out a trouble which
is as dangerous as it is painful.
HARRISON’S
KIDNEY &
BLADDER
PILLS
Pain by Driving out the Cause
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
“Go on the land, young man and young
woman!” said Sir John Goodwin, present-
ing the cups given by the Orient Company
for competition in the butter and cheese de-
partment of the National Show. _ The tro-
phies, won by the Downs Co-operative Dairy,
were handed out at a luncheon aboard the
Orontes at New Farm wharf. The silver
jubilee of the company’s extension of service
to Brisbane is just being celebrated.
Lady Goodwin took the salute at the
Girl Guides’ annual rally, when 21 companies.
450 strong, marched past the base in Yeronga
Park. Dorothy Hawthorn, Deputy-Commis-
sioner of Girl Guides, and Mrs. Gifford-Croll,
chairwoman of the committee, welcomed her
Ex. The shield presented by Mrs. R. J.
Stark, District Commissioner for Windsor,
and the cup donated by Mrs. John Grant
were competed for. The former went to St.
John’s, with Auchenflower, Toowong and
Kangaroo Point next on the list. Hamilton
and Auchenflower tied for the cup.
Four generations were present at the
silver-wedding celebrations of the Andrew
Wilsons, of Wilson’s Look Out, Tambourine
Mountain. Priority went to the Bignell
family, topped by Mrs. M. A. Bignell, aged
87, who has been 60 years in Queensland.
Mrs. Andrew Wilson was a Bignell before
her marriage in 1905 at Upper Coomera.
The wide verandahs were tastefully deco-
rated, and the guests numerous.
St. John’s Cathedral, with Archdeacon 11.
11. Dixon officiating, saw the marriage of
Francis E. N. Ussher, of Longreach, to Elvie
M. S. Enwright, of Indooroopilly. The bride,
in ivory bridal satin, was given away by her
father; heirloom lace was the train, and the
veil was of rose-point lace. Roses, orchids
and stephanotis made the bouquet. Mary
Enwright and Nita Ussher ’maided in
Grecian gowns of white chiffon and chaplets
of green leaves. The best man was Mr. W. H.
Bell, of Clermont, and the groomsman Dick
Allom. The Bellevue saw the feasting, and
the bride left wearing a gold velvet wrap,
the collar lined with jade, over her wedding
gown. The ’moon rises in Melbourne.
Thelma Robertson’s dance and song reci-
tal was well attended. Kiddies from four
to five were goblins, elves, rabbits, fairies,
eighteenth-century gentlemen and mincing-
crinolined ladies. Amongst the proud parents
in the audience were the Petries, Ruthnings,
Huybers, Hugalls and F. Iv. • Brodribbs;
others in the throng were Mrs. Robert Bell
and Bonnie Bell. Mr. and Mrs. Jack and
Mrs. V. McCulloch.
Jars of gladioli, which are blooming won-
derfully this year, decorated the roof garden
at Atclierley for the Atcherley House Bridge
Club’s benefit for the Crfecbe and Kinder-
garten. Chief Justice Blair and his lady
received, she in rose and gold. Mesdame's
Carlton and Patterson and Duncan Pierson,
the C.J.’s secretary, won the prizes. Cap-
tain and Mrs. Vowles, Mr. and Mrs. H.
Magee and Mr. and Mrs. R. M. Gow were
amongst the large gathering.
WESTRAMA.
Perth.
Among passengers who disembarked from
the Viminale at Fremantle was Mrs. Jordan,
who left her native shores just over a year
and a half ago as Miss Pat Evans. After
some teaching in the Cold Country she landed
a billet, for which there were 200 other
British applicants, in the home of an influen-
tial German family. Followed a marvellous
nine months near Cologne, with a break for
winter sports in Switzerland. Then Miss
Evans returned to London to marry an
English aviator —Cupid did his job on the
steamer trip from Australia. While her hus-
band is engaged on naval and Air Force
manoeuvres in the South Atlantic, Mrs.
Jordan is paying a few months’ visit to her
people before settling down to housekeeping
in London.
Perfect weather blessed the second October
race-meeting at Ascot. Mrs. David Grant's
black and salmon-pink chiffons were
offset with black millinery.; Mrs. Jack Dur-
ack’s navy satin had a touch of gold traceries;
Mrs. Tymms also chose navy; Mrs. John
Forrest’s floral gown was topped with a
primrose headpiece; a white tuck-in blouse
was part of Mrs. Edgar Grant’s dove-grey
suit; Mrs. Krauth wore an unusual shade of
purple; Mrs. George Ridgway chose a small
hat for her brown frock ; Mollie Ross’s silk
had a sky-blue background; Mrs. D. D.
Harris and Winnie Hinde were among the
devotees of black; Mrs. Fred Dempster’s
navy georgettes were relieved with beige;
and Mollie Robinson was all in shell-pink.
The Music-teachers’ Association had an
entertaining evening when Trinity College’s
examiner, Mr. Anderson Tyrer, and his wife
a violinist of rare talent, gave a whole recital
programme of works for piano and violin, and
piano solos. After supper Prof. Davies, of
the Adelaide Consiervatorium, punctuated
his lecturette on the music of Australian
abos. with the playing of gramophone
records of abo. “tunes” taken by himself in
Central Australia. The weird music of
Black Brother recalls that of the Chinese
but the recordings are of great ethnological
interest.
Guildford Grammar School annexed the
Alcock Shield by a short head from Hale
School on a thrilling inter-school sports
day. R. B. Bennett, of Scotch College,
scored most points in the open events;
McLeod, of Grammar School, who figured in
the under-age contests, annexed most indivi-
dual points. Mrs. McLeod, in a lacy straw
hat and brown voile frock, was one of the
proudest mothers in the grandstand. Mrs.
Rowley wore a mustard tweed suit; Flora
Anderson was in navy, and Mary sported
a printed silk coat; Mrs. P. G. Hampshire
wore navy satin and black millinery; and
Audrey Savage chose leaf green.
Passed out at 71, William -Catton Grasby.
S. Aus. born, lie was a teacher in early
life and headmaster at Roseworthy Agri-
cultural College. He had been 25 years m
Westralia, where he was agricultural editor
of the “Western Mail” and a prolific writer
on all matters relating to the land. Every
creeping thing and every insignificant seed-
ling interested him. A prodigious worker,
Mr. Grasby had a helping hand always ready
for farmer and student.
The Rodney Alsop couple are back from
abroad, and Lesley Vincent has just returned
after two years’ polishing in Paris—elder
sister Helen, who has a decided gift for
music, is remaining another year. The
Arthur Jacobys are expected by the Cathay.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
A reception was held at the Adelaide
Women’s Club to give Lady li'ore-Ruthven
an opportunity of meeting other members.
Her Ex. was received by the joint presidents
(Adelaide Miethke and Phoebe Watson),
dramatic, vocal and musical items were given,
and during supper .everyone wished Lady
llore-Ruthven ~bon voyage —she leaves
shortly to be with her son in England during
his college vacation.
The Mayoress (Mrs. Lavington Bonython),
who is retiring at the end of the year after
a most strenuous innings, gave an at-home to
those, who have assisted her at the depot for
unemployed, those who have sold buttons,
and the many who have knitted clothes
for babies and children. Songs were ren-
dered by Miss Jean Collett. After the
Mayoress had thanked those present, the
Newland lady voiced the sentiments of the
guests, who had always found Mrs. Bonython
a tower of strength—the first to arrive at
the depot and the last to leave. Everyone
joined in singing “For She’s a Jolly Good
Fellow.”
Raising money to provide daily meals for
the hundreds of ex-service unemployed at
the Cheer-Up Hut is a big undertaking for
the committee of women who are carrying on
the good work. One of the most energetic of
the band, Mrs. Norman Barrett, organised
a successful bridge party and dance at the
Hut, at which over 200 were present.
On Thursday afternoon two American
teas merged into quite enjoyable social
gatherings. The Babies’ Home, Walkerville,
benefited largely by the function held at the
residence of Mr. and Mrs. W. D. Shennan.
The weather was ideal, and Mr. Shennan had
constructed a complicated midget golf course
on his grass tenuis court which provided
lots of entertainment. Afternoon tea was
served under shady trees on the lawn. Two
nurses brought a contingent of the “Babies”
along, wee tots walking hand in hand. None
enjoyed the party more than these.
Mrs. C. R. Morris was responsible for
the other gathering at her home, Yurilla,
Unley Park, in aid of the Travellers’ Aid
Society. There was a good attendance, and
a. large number of gifts were brought and
sold.
This is Douglas Mawson’s lady, Paquita
Adelaide Club to the officers
lands squadron.
Delprat before
her marriage
16 years ago.
II e r father,
who was born
in Holland,
was general
manager of the
Broken Hill
Prop, for over
20 years; her
husband occu-
pies the Chair
of Geology at
Adelaide Uni.,
and has done
notable explor-
ing work in
the Antarctic,
to which he
is off again.
She was the
hostess at a
luncheon party
at the Queen
of the Netlier-
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The Australian Women’s National League
has been conferring in Hobart. Mrs.
Mary Parker sot the social ball rolling by
collecting everybody at an at-home at her
pretty house, Charlton, in Augusta-road,
where the reception-rooms were ablaze with
spring blooms. There was a good musical
programme besides the tea and talk. The
final function was a reception at the Town
Hall, among those present being Premier
McPhee and other notables, with their
womenfolk.
The 67th Royal Show was quite a success-
ful affair considering the times. There
was some faultless jumping; and among the
women competitors Barbara Bennett (riding
her own horse Alert). Mrs. A. Bennett and
Miss Bowman added to their laurels.
At the Kingston Beach golf links Mr.
and Mrs. Percy Shadforth entertained a
throng of guests. Thirty-two pairs con-
tended for a trophy which fell to Mrs.
C. E. Webster and R. PI. Edwards. Mar-
garet O’Grady was among the guests.
Dr. Tom Giblin and his young wife
(formerly Miss Rymill, of Adelaide) have
settled down in Hampden-road. Dr. Tom
will practise in partnership with his father
in Macquarie-street. To introduce the new
daughter-in-law to the clan and her new
surroundings, Mrs. Wilfred Giblin gave an
at-home. The rooms . were a mass of
roses; hostess and guest of honor carried
bouquets of lilies of the valley.
A Launceston wedding was that of Bever-
ley, eldest daughter of the R. C. Grubbs,
Strathroy, to Kenneth Brian Goyne. The
Rev. Ross Hewton tied the knot. The bride’s
frock was of beige georgette and lace, ankle-
length and deeply flared; a darker beige
straw hat of picture variety, lined with pink
and sporting two soft pink roses on one side,
topped the effect. There were no brides-
maids, and only relatives mustered at Strath-
roy for the wedding tea. The goiug-away
turnout was of brown crepe de Chine, worn
with a hat in brown and gold toning.


3*2
V
■ *
t
f 1
' J A- 7 TT^-**‘. -- : &» &'■ h: 3
•>.- '-•%■“>*;
&?**'* *;*.• -i* «<#- . • *'" »
i»*
V‘ ;
w v < * »‘>£f>f.-
.
*i
I
nvww
—=®
Qhe finest
sport in the
Seven Seas
Red deer, fallow.
wapiti, moose:
sword fish. Maßo.
salmon £ trout.
Come to
'ISHING by lake and river . . . quinnat,
JL salmon, rainbow and brown trout, weighing
up to 20-lbs.; shooting amid scenery of magnificent
beauty . . . deer, wapiti, moose, wild pig; deep-
sea fishing unequalled in the world . . . sword
fish and mako, giants of the sea that provide
thrilling sport and weigh up to iooo-lbs. each.
Here is the sport for sportsmen . . . the finest,
healthiest sport in the world. Full information
as to seasons, etc. given on application.
fd
FILL IN THIS COUPON]
and post it addressed to —N.Z.
Govt. Office, Martin Place, Sydney.
Please send me illustrated Booklets and
full information about New Zealand.
Name
Address
5.8.6 A.
for a DIFFERENT
Holiday
s
6A
Free Steamer Fares to New Zealand
The Mount Cook Company’s office will
pay your First Class Steamer Fare to New
Zealand. The terms of this offer leave
you free to plan your itinerary as you
please, providing that it includes the Com-
pany’s services at Rotorua, the Chateau,
National Park, Mt. Cook or Queenstown.
In the case of extended tours, this offer will
be increased to include return fare also.
Full particulars and specimen tours avail-
able on application to The Tourist Booking
Office, 9A Bligh Street, Sydney; to the
Company’s Agents, Dalgety & Co., through-
out Australia; or to New Zealand Govern-
ment Tourist Offices, Martin Place, Sydney,
and Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, and Ade-
This offer is open until November 28th, 1930.
MOUNT COOK TOURIST COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
9a Bligh Street, Sydney.
The NEW ZEALAND GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, Martin Place, Sydney
and began to limp nervously to and fro on
the hillside. This drew from Digby and
Hawke a clamor of curses so withering that
Hales was glad to crouch again to the
earth; there Hawke menaced him with his
straight eye while Digby growled, “You
might as well wave a flag to the station
yonder as start running about the hillside,
and the sun shining on you and all .”
“O my God,” wailed Jem, “I don’t want
to be scragged—l couldn’t stand it!”
“Listen to me,” said Digby. “Harford
and his mates likely enough are back at
the tree by this time, and they’ll have
others with them, all well armed and in good
trim, curse ’em! You can take it from me,
too, Harford is a bloodhound and fears
nothing; so I tell you straight I don’t
want to sight him, specially considerin’ the
state I’m in Here, shut yer trap, you
white-livered midget!” This last to Jem,
who had again begun to give voice to his
misgivings. “The pity is you weren’t dang-
ling from a rope’s-end, and we had a man in
your place; ’twould give us a chance.”
“You’ve no call to berate me,” began
Hales; but Hawke silenced him by threat-
ening to scrag him on the spot if he sniv-
elled again. So Hales had to content
himself with peering through the bush, list-
ening fearfully for the first sounds of the
manhunters, while Digby explained to
Hawke his plan for escaping in the cutter.
“You see the men’s huts down there,
Tom,” pursued Dan. “Well, there’s another
hut like them, but rougher built, that you
can’t see from here, because it’s a good
way back in the bush, at the foot of this
hili we’re sittin’ on. Sam Morgan lives
in that hut. I know him well. He
escaped from the gang in Tasmania last
year. He was a lifer. He’s workin’ at the
station, but they don’t know he escaped—
they think his time was expired. Now,
Sam doesn’t intend to be taken alive. He
has two guns and plenty o’ ammunition,
and he keeps one gun always loaded by his
bunk at night. I tell you he would be a
dangerous man for a stranger to wake up.
Well, I was thinkin’, Tom, we had better
take Sam along wi’ us so’s we’ll have the
use of his pieces and powder and shot,
which’ll be mighty handy, maybe, wherever
we land. And, what’s more, he’s been here
the best part of a year and knows the run
of the ropes, so that he can make every-
thing smoothlike in getting us away, and,
anyhow, I might just as well tell you, he
was one o’ the men I planned to leave in
the cutter with before I was nabbed.”
“I agree,” said Tom, “to anything you
say; but, Dan, we’ll want a lot of grub to
feed four men. How long with the wind
agin us would it take to make New Zealand,
think you?”
“Eight to ten weeks.' There’s two men
on the station has been there in whalers.
They both done it under two months. But
a whaler isn’t a cutter. That cutter there
is thirty foot, and she’s in good trim, and
with luck we ought to do it in two months.
As for grub—well, we got to take our
chances. We must get away to-night. We’ll
get what we want from the storehouse,
but there mightn’t be much of it. The boat
moored to the jetty looks as if they re
getting ready to go to Port Phillip for
provisions—that’s what they mostly use her
for. Anyhow, we got to go even if the
rations are short. I know there is a ten-
gallon butt always aboard, but how much
water it has now is another thing. Maybe
we’ll have to carry water from the wells,
and if so be there’s a risk. Too much prowl-
ing round and you never know who might
be about or who might be a light sleeper.
However, we can’t do more till I see
Morgan, and we got to wait till dark
for that.”
Thus they passed the day in sight of the
vessel they hoped would carry them to free-
dom and a new life, and in sight of the
open sea which they were about to charge
with the safety of their lives, doubly
precious because they were forfeit.
(To he continued next week.)
As We Said Before
Dear Bulletin, — Sir Henry Blake, nomin-
ated to the Governorship of Queensland,
was some 20 years ago an inspector of
police in Ireland, with a salary of a couple
of hundred a year. He had no family in-
fluence to forward his interests, but had the
good luck to marry the eldest daughter of
Bernal Osborne, then a brilliant wit and
well-known member of the House of Com-
mons. Although the Semitic Bernal had
climbed the social ladder himself by marrying
Lady Osborne, of Newtown Aimer (?), a
wealthy heiress in her own right, ' he
resented the visits of the poor sub-inspector,
and on returning after an absence would
sneeringly ask if “the policeman” was in
the house. Blake was an attractive fellow,
with a great deal of dash, an expert at
mesmerism and a clever amateur actor. Miss
Osborne had the choice of sharing his lot and
being disinherited. She married Sub-inspector
Blake, and her younger sister, the Duchess of
St. Albans, received a rental of £BOOO a
year, half of which was the right of the
elder sister. Mrs. Blake made many sacri-
fices, lived in poverty and social ostracism,
her mother’s bitter hate pursuing her. Lady
Osborne died about 1880, and in her will
disinherited the wife of the policeman. Mrs.
Blake again showed her pluck by taking-
forcible possession of portion of the property,
and, with the aid of a pistol and cutlass,
drove three caretakers out of possession.
The Duke and Duchess of St. Albans (Mrs.
Blake’s younger sister) became ashamed
of legal proceedings which were taken
against her, and a sum of £5OOO was paid by
the executors of Lady Osborne to the ill-
treated Mrs. Blake. A family reconcilia-
tion was arrived at, the sporting Duke liked
he stern and much-injured clever Irishman,
and by rapid strides Blake became County
Inspector, Stipendiary Magistrate and then
Divisional Magistrate. In the days of their
poverty, Blake and his wife trusted a .good
deal to help from the “grey goose quill,”
and the -Irish sketches of the former are
very clever and pleasant reading.. The
Duke of St. Albans has considerable poli-
tical influence with the Tories, and his
brother-in-law was readily advanced to the
Governorship of the Bermudas and then of
Newfoundland. Mrs. Blake is very clever
and has been of great help to her hus-
band in his gubernatorial duties. — Anon.
[B. 24/11/’BB,]
In a little Victorian town lately a man
got drunk and fell into a creek, breaking
two of his ribs. As he crawled out he found
a large nugget, and he has now forsworn
beer and started business with the proceeds.
If lie had been a sober, pious man who did
not fall about drunk he would never have
found that nugget and would probably have
remained poor and respectable to the end
of his days. The Scripture states in touch-
in-r language that it lias never seen the
seed of the righteous begging bread, but they
generally have to bustle like old boots for
weak tea and hard cheese. Moreover, the
promise does not cover coal and rent and
clothes, and if the righteous have bread but
are forced to go out with nothing on but
their piety their lot is not a happy one.
And speaking of this reminds us that one
of the richest men in the neighborhood of
Ballarat (Yic.) made his first start in life
by whaling his wife. Twelve years ago he
was a cursing sinner in low circumstances
and possessed of only one pair of patched
pants. He was fond of drink and gambling,
and one cold night, finding himself possessed
of £7, he sat down and “blewed” the lot by
a fatal tendency to go nap on the queen
and three small trumps. Then, being urged
on by the Devil, he remembered that his
patient suffering wife had £5 saved lip, and
walking home he welted the pool JittL
woman with a big strap till Me lM°k<? down
and surrendered her hoard. With mis new
capital he went back and whom
crowd of diggers, and about 5 a.m. reeieu
home and kicked the whole house to shivers
in his fiendish glee, and scared his wire
into a fit and then scared her out again, and
finally dumped down £370 as the wages or
sin and went to sleep. He is now worui
some hundreds of thousands and his witc
has about £50,000 invested m her own
name, and when they give an entertainment
in their gilded halls, and the lady, who is
still comparatively young and rather pretty,
appears in evening dress and diamonds lie
generally takes the opportunity to tell a
confidential friend how he whacked her till
she was nearly dead on the night when he
made his first rise. And yet many a man
who never thrashed a woman in all his lire
is left without a cent and has to scuttle
at the back door of the ungodly tor donations
of old boots. Somehow the old copybook
maxims want to be boiled down afresh and
revarnished. [B. 25/8/ 88.]


LIFE INSURANCE
Is the most effective instrument ever
devised by human intelligence for the
promotion of industry, saving, character
and happiness.
Insure Your Life with
A.M.P. SOCIETY
ASSETS £78,500,000
A MUTUAL institution where the whole of the available surplus
is divided ANNUALLY amongst the participating members.
ENQUIRIES INVITED.
Head Office: F. T. BRIDGES,
87 Pitt Street, Sydney. General Manager.
Offices in the leading Country towns, and field representatives in all Districts.
\folue
that is proved
by actual years
of unfailing
writing service
£7/
Siv
08
WNS.
c
PS:
/A
r
%
1
t
%
m
•’is
t
A fountain pen that has a
reputation for continuing to
write perfectly for thirty or
forty years does not need ex-
travagant claims to support it.
Nevertheless the ‘Swan’ Pen
is guaranteed by the makers
to serve you faithfully for an
unlimited time.
You can now buy a ‘Swan 5
Pen either in Black or in the
exquisite colours which are
so popular.
COLOURED ‘SWANS’ from 22/6
(OTHER SELF - FILLING * SWANS *
from 17/6 Black or Mottled)
“ Fyne-Poynt " Pencils from 7/6
Self-Filling “ Blackbird ” Pens from 9/-
OF STATIONERS & JEWELLERS
Illustrated Catalogue post free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD., Swan House,
London, W.i.
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents & Repair
Service Depot: /
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., /
181. Clarence Stieet. rv J
ri
Sydney.
S.F. 230 G
Black or
Mottled
(with clip)
27/6
Lapis Lazuli
with
Rolled Gold
Bands
30 /•
There is a ’ ’ Pencil
to match any ‘Swan’ Pen.
FOR
“SWA N"
PENS
AND ALL
PENS
fW
ft
jSK TO SEE THE M6W COLOi/^g 0 ‘gy/ANSf
C (A.)
THE AUSTRALIAN MUSEUM MAGAZINE
A Quarterly Illustrated Journal appealing to all Students and Lovers of Nature.
OCTOBER —DECEMBER NUMBER NOW ON SALE.
CONTENTS:
THE GREAT WHALES OF AUSTRALIA AND ANTARCTICA- ••••••• by
BLACK AUSTRALIA b y Professor A. R Radcliffe Brown
WILD NATURE ON THE NULLARBOR PLAIN by Chas. Barrett, C.M.£S.
THE FRESHWATER EEL ■••••••. by
BUTTERFLIES AND SHELLS, a Brief Description of the Waterhouse Collections recently donated to tne
Museum by Dr. G. A. Waterhouse.
VOLUME IV, PART 4. Obtainable at Leading Booksellers.
Annual Subscription 4/4 posted. Single Copies 1/1 posted.
Become a Subswiber and thus assist the work and progress of the Museum.
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Principal Sydney Office 342 George Street
Capital Paid Up - - - £5,000.000
Reserve Fund (used in the Business) £5,200,000
The knowledge gained through seventy-two years’ experience
of Australian banking is made available to the clients of the
National Bank by means of a chain of 495 branches and offices
distributed through the States of the Commonwealth.
The banking requirements of farmers, graziers, manufacturers,
builders, traders, merchants, workers, tourists, settlers, and all
other sections of the community are met by a full range of
facilities, equally available to all persons, whether their means
be great or small.
Its arrangements for transacting Foreign Business have been
widely extended, and, in addition to the two offices in London,
the Bank has Agents in every city of business importance in
the world.
TOTAL ASSETS EXCEED £45,000,000
.•>‘y
A- \
?>M-D
10
Here is an instance of a young man (Mr. D.
M., of Tarzali, Queensland) saved from look-
ing prematurely old by Edwin Holland
methods. Although now only 26, his hair
had been falling fast for four years, starting
with very thick dandruff—until, in his own
words, he was “thin all round the crown
and on top of the head, with the scalp
showing through.” He had already used “a
hair tonic” which made no noticeable improve-
ment. So on June 26 he decided it was
high time to do something serious about it.
He wrote to Edwin Holland, received our
advice, and started treatment at once. Results
have exceeded his wildest dreams. After 10
weeks (Sept. 10) he writes: “Now I must
write to let you know the marvellous differ-
ence your treatment has made to my hair;
it has already started a thick crop of new hair
all over my crown and top of the head where
it was very thin. I’ve no doubt I will soon
have a full head of hair again.” If you are
threatened with baldness, why not follow Mr.
D. M.’s example? Send us the coupon below for
free advice and a diagnosis chart. Our treat-
ment is not expensive ; it costs about 12/- the
first month and about 5/- a month afterwards.
NOTE. —The original of Mr. D. M.’s letter
may be seen at our office.
EDWIN HOLLAND
Over 50 years'
success against oaldness
•;©
Write your
HOLLAND,
without cost
name and address in the margin, and post to EDWIN
350 Little Collins Street, Melbourne. Please send me
or obligation, full particulars of your methods.


THIRTY PIECES OF SILVER
By Montague Grover
ILLUSTRATED BY PERCY LINDSAY
CHAPTER XXXIX— (Continued).
JIMMY had still a hundred and fifty
pounds available after providing for
“Sunlight Sam.”
“No boarding-houses for me now that
we’ve something left,” said Alma firmly,
when Jimmy suggested possible loneliness,
in a house of their own. “I’ve had a few.”
She compromised on a flat, took charge
of the renting herself and contrived to
secure part of a picturesque old mansion
that had outlived its original magnificence.
It had been cut up into seven or eight
groups of rooms altogether, a device which
left it far short of the modernly designed
flat in respect of convenience and efficient
running. But what more than compensated
was the fine old garden and the wide ver-
andah looking out on Rushcutter Bay and
down the harbor beyond.
Before she took the place, Alma made an
excuse to converse with the neighbors and
found them charming people. Jimmy need
have no fear of her being lonely there.
She took charge of the furnishing arrange-
ments. Jimmy would have spent the whole
hundred and fifty if he had been left to it.
Alma contrived to make a comfortable
artistic home for a little more than half.
A fair proportion of the stuff was second-
hand, certainly, but she had chosen so well
that nobody would have suspected the fact.
“I thought a honeymoon was nice, dear,”
she confessed as she nestled on his lap
after tea. “But home’s better still. Young
people don’t know what a home is. You
have to be a child or married to know what
it means.”
They often had Stan and Emily and
others of their friends out to the flat, and
Jimmy fixed up a spare bed on the ver-
andah for Wellington, who occasionally
came up for the week-end. Later on, Jimmy
took Alma and Stan and Emily, went down
to Illawarra on the Saturday night, and next
day at dinner at the Grand Jimmy enter-
tained all his old particular friends, Mrs.
Blessington a.nd the Quirks and Father
Phelan and Sergt. Dunn and those few of
his schoolfellows still left in the district.
Jimmy and Alma were very happy in
their newly married life, so happy that
they had forgotten all about “Sunlight
Sam” until the proofs came along for re-
vision. As they had been set from printed
matter, already revised and re-revised, there
was little to do. Stan’s cover design in
color had been splendidly reproduced; his
line drawings scattered through the book—
eight full pages and a thumb-nail sketch
with every verse —also came out excellently.
The reduction had improved them and the
etching gave a clean bold line.
Jimmy sent the proofs back to Melbourne
with little alteration, and it was only a
fortnight later that he received a bulky
parcel—fifty author’s copies.
The first he lifted from the bundle, he
gave to Alma, who kissed it rapturously.
“Don’t waste ’em; I’m here,” cried Jimmy.
“Poor little thing, was it offended?” she
pouted and gave Jimmy the kiss he claimed.
A larger package came a day or two later.
It was a player-piano—one of the latest
type—from a leading city music-house.
Alma rung up Jimmy frenziedly at the office,
scenting a colossal extravagance. Jimmy
was as mystified as she. But the carriers
were insistent; the address was plain: “Mrs.
James Packington.” And what was more,
it had been paid for.
“I think there’s a note of some sort in-
side,” said the head man.
Alma surrendered, but with misgivings.
She submitted to the instrument being
brought in and placed in position. Then
she opened it. On the keyboard she read
a card.
“To Jimmy’s wife, with all the best wishes
in my heart. —From May.”
Alma looked serious when Jimmy re-
turned that evening. She handed him the
card.
“Jimmy, did this girl love you?”
Jimmy shook his head.
“Did you love her?”
“No,” replied Jimmy. “I never loved
her, but I asked her to marry me. I’ve
learned since that I didn’t know what love
was then.”
“Was she a good girl?” persisted Alma.
“I don’t know whether you’d call her
good,” replied Jimmy. “But I honestly
believe her to be one of the best women
I’ve ever met.”
Alma relaxed. “I’ll accept your judgment,
Jimmy,” she said. “We’ll keep the piano.
But she must have thought a lot of you
to send a present like that.”
“She did think a lot of me, Alma, and
I thought a lot of her. I do still. But
we didn’t love one another. She never
loved anybody till she met the man she
married.”
“Do you think I’d like her?”
“You’d love her,” cried Jimmy, with per-
fect honesty. “I’ve never met anybody,
man or woman, who knew May without
loving her.”
“Except yourself?” quizzed Alma.
“I meant another sort of love,” explained
Jimmy.
“I knew you did, dear,” said Alma, sitting
at the instrument and running her fingers
over the keys. “Oh, Jimmy, this is just
what I wanted—just the very thing I’ve
been longing for. It would have been ages
before we could have afforded one.”
Alma had momentarily forgotten her faith
in “Sunlight Sam.”
The reception of the book was such as to
astound even those who had been the
greatest admirers of the verses when they
appeared in “The Ishmaelite”—to astound
even Alma. Every reviewer of note in Aus-
tralia gave it first place in his notes. The
majority quoted freely from the most strik-
ing passages; with a couple of insignificant
exceptions, they were unanimous concerning
the work’s charm and its well-poised balance
between pathos and comedy.
Alma lived in a state of exaltation. She
rushed for each of the papers as they
arrived and cried ecstatically to Jimmy:
“What did I tell you?” She rejoiced that
Melbourne had risen just as splendidly as
Sydney. She awaited Brisbane and Adelaide
and found them both enthusiastic; West
Australia and Tasmania came along with
more eulogy. Then New Zealand, generally
a trifle superior, forgot its pose of patronis-
ing intellectuality to burst forth with boyish
enthusiasm.
Criticisms do not sell books, but they
advertise them. The public bought the
first thousand on the notices and then the
buyers started to talk. Barton and Bone
wired to Jimmy advising him of the un-
expected orders which had come along.
They had started to print the second thou-
sand on their own responsibility. Within a
few days, orders covered the whole of that
thousand. In five weeks eight thousand
copies of “Sunlight Sam” had been sold at
six and sixpence a copy. In ten weeks the
sales had reached fourteen thousand, and
were still steady when the cable stated that
the book had received splendid reviews in
England. In a few days it was found that
American critics were similarly pleased.
Jimmy made a few calculations and found
he was the possessor of a fortune approach-
ing a thousand pounds.
“And you’d have let it go for fifty pounds,
if it hadn’t been for me!” observed Alma
wisely.
“What a shrewd little wife I’ve got,” he
replied. “You’ve been a profitable invest-
ment, dear.”
Jimmy was in the boom. His portrait
was sought by a dozen outside journals.
Some of them asked for Alma’s too, and
accompanying the pictures was letterpress
hinting that Jimmy and Alma were the
originals of the story.
The climax of fame was reached one
night. Just as Jimmy was going to bed, a
motor rolled up to the door.
He found Malcolm Loch on the mat.
“Suppose you’re just off to bed, Jimmy,”
cried Loch. “Well, put it off for a few
minutes. I’ve something most important
to put before you—tons of money in it for
both of us. You’ve hit it hard with your
‘Sunlight Sam.’ But you don’t know the
full value of your punch yet; I’m here to
show you.”
Jimmy couldn’t guess what he had in
mind but wondered why Loch couldn’t
have seen him some other time. There
were plenty of odd half-hours in daytime
to talk business propositions. However,
that was Loch’s way of doing business; to
ru°h thp moment an idea hit him.
Loch sat down. “Now, I just struck this
idea ten minutes ago, so I got into a car
at once and came out. On the way I
thought things over. Now”—he grew
earnest—“l suppose you know that Aus-
tralia carries more poets to the square mile
than any other country on earth. You
can’t throw a rock in a city street without
hitting two poets or people who think
they’re poets. Every country town has its
local Homer. Nine times out of ten when
you find a fossicker living alone in a hut
twenty miles from anywhere, he’s got a
bundle of rhymes under his bunk. We’re
a nation of poets; we think in metre; we
use rhymes instead of full stops.”
“Well, admitting all you say, what
about it?”
“About it,’ r yelled Loch so loudly as to
alarm Alma, snuggling under the sheets in
the next room. “Don’t you see the money
there is in it? It’s illimitable. Properly
handled, there’s no need for either of us
to work any more.”
“Look here, I just roughed this out—full-
page advt. in the Sunday papers. Top left-
hand corner: picture of an old-time poet, a
measly swine in a nightgown twanging a
harp in a market place. Right-hand lower
corner: a modern poet—neat but not gaudy
—athletic sort of beauty actor stepping out
of his Rolls Royce and surrounded with
every luxury. Across the top in bold De
Vinne: ‘Poets Make Big Money.’ Under it
a trifle larger: ‘Be a Poet.’ Then: ‘Dennis
made five thousand pounds out of “The
Sentimental Bloke”—Kipling gets a hundred
poilnds every time he, turns off a set of
verses. You may be a Dennis or a Kipling.’
Then another big line: ‘lf You Know How.’
Under that ‘Seven cities competed for the
honor of Homer’s birthplace—You know
where you were born.’ Right at the bottom:
‘James Gurr Packington, author of “Sun-
light Sam,” will tell you how in the poetry
course of the Sydney Institute of Mail
Learning.’ How does it strike you, Jimmy?”
“Nothing doing,” retorted Jimmy.
“Nothing doing!” cried Loch. “Man,
you’re mad. I know the public. I’ve studied
’em inside and out and I tell you it’ll pull
like hot cakes. I’ll bet you a tenner that
one full-page ad. like that’ll bring us five
hundred replies by the next mail. It’s the
biggest thing I’ve ever got on to and if
you’ll only join in, it’s a fortune for us
both.”
“Nothing doing,” repeated Jimmy. “Don’t
you understand, it’s impossible to teach a
man to write verse. He can improve with
practice, but if he hasn’t got it in him he’ll
never do anything.”
“I know that,” replied Loch, “but we
won’t be taking them down; you’ll improve
them. You can point out where they’re
wrong, tell them that bean doesn’t rhyme
with meat and that sort of thing, and they’ll
be tickled to death. We’ll have testimonials
from grateful students within three weeks.
Anyhow, the work won’t be hard. You
only want about twelve sets of letters
altogether; they’ll all make the same
blunders. Then when we’ve broken them
in in the fundamentals, we’ll give them the
transcendental stuff. Bring out their souls,
give ’em Rabin-what-you-call-him Tagore
and that sort of thing. As for the real out-
siders, the dead mugs, we can turn them on
to vers libre.”
“It’s no good, Malcolm,” announced
Jimmy. “I wouldn’t touch it with a pitch-
fork.”
“That’s all right, old man,” agreed Loch.
He never took offence, never paid the
slightest attention, to an initial rebuff. He
had broken the ice with Jimmy; that is
all he ever hoped to do with anybody the
first time of asking. It was his follow-up
system that had won him the position he
held, and he would follow up Jimmy.
For the present he saw that Jimmy was
anxious to get to bed. He apologised once
more for having disturbed him, sounded
his horn noisily and illuminated the entire
neighborhood with his powerful headlights
until his machine turned the corner and
its panting died away, three blocks distant.
CHAPTER XL.
The fortunes predicted by Loch for him-
self and Jimmy remained unmade. For
once the celebrated follow-up system of
the ad.-man failed; Jimmy remained im-
pervious to all his arguments, undazzled
by all his luminous pictures of easy wealth.
Loch was still persisting when an encounter
with a resting actor caused a new idea to
flash upon his brain like a sunburst.
The poetry-by-post scheme was forgotten;
another took its place and burgeoned into
big display advertisements, asking the
reader why he wished to be a clerk all his
life when he might do what Irving and
Oscar Asche had done by taking the acting-
by-post course at the Sydney Institute of
Mail Learning! Plunging into his latest
device with frenzied energy, Loch forgot all
about his suggestion to Jimmy, and the
follow-up system interrupted the writer no
more.
Impressed by the reporter’s success with
“Sunlight Sam,” the “Times” people began
to fear that they might lose him. They
knew that Jimmy would not desert them
for a rival without giving them the oppor-
tunity of making the same offer. What they
feared was that his success might tempt
him to leave journalism altogether. Already
he had another volume of verses on the
way, and, judging by indications, the repu-
tation of “Sunlight Sam” would suffice to
ensure a big sale. They knew that Jimmy
chafed under the weight and dulness and
all-round dishonesty of the political work
which occupied the greater part of his time.
They knew that he was married and looked
with less equanimity on all-night sittings
of Parliament and trips to the Backblocks
at twenty minutes’ notice than he had been
wont to do in his single days. They had
no wish to lose the value of his work, but
they saw the possibility of doing so.
A little more prosperity, a little more in-
terruption with his home life, a little more
nerve-racking in the way of monotonous
gallery stenography, and there was a like-
lihood that the man might decide to risk
all upon his ability to write, casting over-
board that even rarer faculty the sense of
true news values.
Six months after his marriage the “Times”
made a job for Jimmy—that is to say they
grouped together certain work formerly
scattered among members of the staff and
made them Jimmy’s own. The book reviews,
formerly done by a barrister recently
raised to the Bench, were handed over to
Jimmy; so was the dramatic criticism; so
were a couple of other specialised jobs for
which he was particularly fitted. To him
was entrusted the task of writing one of
the Saturday leaders, which, unlike those on
other days, dealt with matters outside the
zone of politics.
But withal, he was still available for the
big news jobs, which required the brain of
the master fact-hunter, the pen of the
master writer.
Jimmy rejoiced when he was told, rejoiced
not only because the change would bring
him an increase of salary and an advance
of status. He rejoiced principally because
his time would be largely his own. He had
his work to do; provided the copy was in
the hands of the printer by a specified time,
he could write it when and how he chose.
Yet he was glad that he had not been en-
tirely cut off from the world. A leader-
writer’s position made little appeal to him.
He still felt the fierce craving to be out
where the news was growing. He had ne\ ei
tired at writing of the things men did;
what had grown so monotonous was writing
of the things they said.
With the money that had come in from
“Sunlight Sam” he built a neat little bun-
galow on the heights of Yaucluse, with wide
verandahs before which the Harbor spread
like a, colored map with the shipping of the
world sweeping to and fro beneath him.
The cottage had taken the place of one
originally erected in the ’fifties, so that there
was, ready made, a quaint old garden filled
with waving trees and winding paths and
terraces upheld by rough creeper-covered
sandstone walls. It was convenient to the
city, and on Sundays he and Alma had
only to ride a couple of miles to reach the
surf beach at Bondi.
Long ago he had told Alma the inside
story of his rescue at Illawarra and they
had laughed over it together. And she
had confessed the story of Muriel s lapse
when a letter came from W est Australia
telling of Gyp Gurner and the legacy he
had left. At Jimmy’s suggestion, Alma
wrote her sister a letter, not of forgiveness
but one revealing the affection she really
felt, and filled with honest good wishes for
the future.
Alma’s good wishes seemingly had their
effect, for, later, Muriel wrote announcing
her remarriage. The bridegroom Jimmy
recognised as the friend of Gyp Gurner,
who had taken Muriel to England. Muriel
had grown to be such an important part
of his life that he had returned solely to
seek her out and take her for life. Muriel
was scarcely tactful in the warmth of her
congratulations to Alma, seeing that she was
supposed to have seen nothing of Jimmy
since the Illawarra days, but fortunately
she aroused no suspicions in Alma’s mind.
Jimmy breathed freely. He was content
with the world—as happy as man can be.
Sometimes he wondered was there such a
thing as real happiness to the grown man
or woman who can feel and think. For
himself, he had Alma; that was nearly
everything, but his friends were scattered
to the four winds of Heaven. Of the old
mates whom he had loved in his youth
only Stan remained. Wellington, even, he
saw only three times a year; Patsy was in
America; Bert Burnett was still the lion of
the audiences of London West End vaude-
ville shows; Des Quirk was in gaol. May
was happy with her husband—happy, except
probably for the regret that she had not
saved herself to be wholly and solely his.
And he would never see her again. He
felt sure of that. He loved his wife and
there was not a suspicion of love left now
for May. Yet, sometimes, when he would
put an Illara record on the phonograph and
hear that well-remembered voice rise to
fill the room, he would close his eyes and
see again May in her blue dress behind the
soda fountain, May in her black costume
with the orange cap riding her sweeping
surf board, May in her glorious nudity with
the setting sun glistening through the golden
haze of her hair, May in her flowered
kimono in the hammock at Momington.
Were any of them really happy? Per-
haps Moon. No, because Moon 'sorrowed
over the souls that were going deliberately
to perdition ignoring his supplications to
be washed in the blood of the Lamb.
Yes; there was one who was happy;
Wally Jackson —without reason, without
memory, without feeling. Wally, of all,
was probably the only one whose happiness
was unalloyed.
Then Alma would come in and Jimmy’s
depression would be dispelled; in the
summer, when they stretched themselves out
on the verandah in the cool evening breeze,
in winter when he would drag the big arm-
chair before the fire and she would clamber
on his knee and snuggle into his arms,
Jimmy would forget all, save that he held
in his arms the woman he loved. That was
all that counted.
And, later on, he sat on the edge of the
bed and watched Alma with the strange,
grotesque little fragment of humanity which
some day wotild achieve the miraculous
and grow from the caricature it was into
a lithe, graceful human being.
“We’re going to call him Sam, Jimmy,”
announced Alma, “Not Samuel—just Sam.
I always said I would, if he was a boy.”
The End.


Amusements.
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: SONS O’ GUNS.
CRITERION:
THIS THING CALLED LOVE
I. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD..
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
MR. CINDERS.
COMEDY THEATRE: THE ROAD TO
ROMANCE
Amusements,
DICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
TWICE DAILY, at 2.30 and 8 p.m.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents
THE NEW REVUE
HAPPY DAYS,
With a Brilliant Cast of Popular Favorites.
Popular Pre-war Prices.
gfd
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
'7s*
KEEP FIT IN AERTEX
M
v¥
J.
h
a***
«>*2
'I
is**
HiV?
-i»_-
•**
**•
a**
•SSS*K
a**.
%•*
KR«*«5
a**«
s*’.
«>•
**«a
«%*
2Sa«fi£
QuaKty 931 MEN’S,
VESTS with button front
and half sleeves. Size .
32m. to 44m. chest.
MEN’S TRUNK
DRAWERS, size 32m. to I
4.4 m. waist.
Neither heat nor chill can affect the
buoyant health of the man who is Aertex
clad. Protected from every change of
temperature by the myriad cells of the
famous Aertex fabric his body is bathed in
oxygen and kept at a normal healthy
temperature always.
Let Aertex keep you in perfect condition
this season. Ask to see the full range of
styles at your outfitters.
Remember Aertex is made in Australia by
Australians, and is recommended by
doctors everywhere as the most healthful
underwear obtainable.
There is also a complete range of AERTEX
for Women and Cliildren.
AERTEX DE LUXE
QUALITY 1601.
The latest development of this famous
fabric is made of the finest Egyptian
cotton, in a close, firm weave, with a
superfine softness of texture. Aertex
de Luxe is designed to meet the
demands of the most exacting taste —•
it is the aristocrat of all underwear
materials.
See this LaboS
on all Garments
AERTEX
Obtainable from all Mercers, Drapers and Outfitters.
In case of difficulty, apply to
THE CELLULAR CLOTHING CO., LTD.,
Wenley House, 313-315 Flinders Lane Melbourne, Cl.
(Wholesale only.)
Telegraphic Address: “Cellular, Melbourne.”
Al 5
Missing Friends.
JOSEPH ARTHUR BERKELEY or any
J person knowing his present whereabouts
or of his death' please communicate with
NORTON SMITH & CO., Solicitors, 39
Hunter Street, Sydney.
Another Yalwal Gold Discovery.
4000 Z. TO THE TON IN 1895.
Yalwal is 16 miles from Nowra, on the
Shoalhaven River. This field is one of the
oldest in New South Wales. It has been
reported on by the best geologists, from the
Rev. J. B. Clarke (1860), E. C. Andrews,
8.A., Geological Surveyor to the N.S.W.
Mines Department (1901), Spencer Bros., of
South Africa (1912). The consensus of
opinion is that the country is well worth
the attention of capitalists and experienced
mining men, for whom a rich reward is wait-
ing. Gold was found in the Shoalhaven
district in 1852, but the first prospectus did
not appear till 1870, when Seivewright,
Brakewell and Donovan searched the country
about Danjera, and, indications being prom-
ising, they put in a string of sluice-boxes.
The return from sluicing the alluvial deposit
was payable, if not much more than this,
and work might have continued but for the
big flood of 1871, which flooded them out
and washed away the whole equipment. Dis-
couraged but not defeated Seivewright dis-
covered the Pinnacles reef on a bluff, rising
150 ft. out of the creek. A small picked
parcel of stone gave him 30oz. In three
months he took out 140 oz. at the rate of £5O
per week. Battery returns would have been
better, but there was no battery. After this
Seivewright erected a battery and treated
500 tons a week, and averaged 340 z. to the
ton. In 12 months he took out sufficient gold
to retire from any further activities in this
w'orld. Underwood and Johnson, in the year
1892, opened up a small vein that ran across
the road. They took out stone that crushed
30oz. to the ton. They won with their
primitive treatment £3500 in three months.
From one parcel of 34cwt. they extracted
7500 z. The vein disappeared in a floor,
and they both leased their interests to
Fletcher Bros., who followed the floor, re-
discovered the vein, richer than before, and
took £6500 from it during the term. The
original company rebought it for £9OO. It
was a good deal for the buyers, who won
£6OOO in a few months. In 1895, when the
rush to Coolgardie was being swelled by
diggers from all Australia, the Old Cale-
donia Co. crushed (apart from regular
monthly profitable returns) a parcel of four
tons for the return of 16640 z. There is
no doubt that this rush to the West affected
all the fields in N.S.W., and in many cases
the miners left the known richer fields for
the reported rich field in the western
desert. As Mr. E. C. Andrew, 8.A., states
in his report to the Mines Department, there
is enormous hidden wealth in the Yalwal
field yet, and says that if a company would
only test the values in the lower levels, as
every indication points that way, there may
be a bonanza awaiting their endeavor. He also
states that the Yalwal field is of interest,
owing to the fact that the mining and treat-
ment of auriferous ore has been effected here
at a lower cost than in any other part of the
State. One of the principal reasons for this
is that the ore can be extracted in open cuts
or quarries at a very low rate. The South
Coast (Yalwal) Gold Reefs, Ltd., was regis-
tered a few weeks ago for the purpose of
working a new reef discovered by W. Simp-
son, which is considered to be the main reef.
It runs across the creek into the Old Cale-
donia Co.’s mine, which, as stated above,
got over 400 oz. to the ton. Assays from the
Mines Department show 3oz. 16dwt. sgr.
to the ton on a face of over 10ft., and look
like making very much bigger as the drive
continues. This company has shares for
sale, and if any reader should be interested
they should write or call upon the Sydney
brokers, Scott-Delamar, 258 George Street
(’Phone, 85644), for a prospectus of the
company.— Advt.
Clear, Pure,
Brilliant Radio
Reception —
or a pale travesty ?
Much depends
on your Battery
POWER, volume, purity of
reception are possible only
if your battery is efficient.
Exide Longer Life Radio Bat-
teries give a steady, even flow
of current that will operate
your radio at peak efficiency
for long periods.
They are guaranteed to give
their full rated ampere-hours
capacity, and sustain their volt-
age throughout the whole time
of discharge.
Obtainable from Exide Service
Stations throughout Australia.
Hie Longer Life*
RADIO BATTERY
State Distributors :
NEW SOUTH WALES : Exide Battery
Service (Gibson, Battle & Co. Ltd.),
Hunt and Commonwealth Streets, Sydney,
also Noyes Bros. (Sydney) Limited,
39 York Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA : A. P. Sutherland, Queen’s
Bridge, 2 Maffra Street, South Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND : Exide Battery Service
(Q.) Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane ;
Stanley St., Sth. Brisbane ; Sturt St., T’ville.
S. AUSTRALIA : Unbehaun & Johnstone
Ltd., 97 Currie Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA : M. J. Bateman
Ltd., Magneto House, Milligan St., Perth.
TASMANIA : Medhurst & Sons Ptv, Ltd,.
141 Collins Street, Hobart, and 59 Brisbane
Street, Launceston.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
“Avon”: The remarkably blunt report of
Colonel Allen, Administrator of Samoa, on
the recent disturbances in the mandated
region raised a storm in the M.L. Parlia-
ment, Laborites, as usual, claiming that the
Samoans are being oppressed and tyrannised,
The most important and also the best-tem-
pered contribution to the debate was made
bv Apirana Ngata, the Minister of Native
Affairs, who declared that the sympathies
of the Maoris were entirely with their fellow-
Polynesians in Samoa, and that the history
of the relations between Maori and pakeha
was being repeated, with many of the old
blunders thrown in. The most peaceful
period in Samoa was when Colonel Tait was
a /Itni'nicfl'ofni’ anrl flinf rrro« hpPflllSP Toif
jSS ‘S r «o UP piL^T , m ?„T m ’ ,
awcfests s “ofs;
of reform in bewildering succession. The
same measures could not have been success-
fully applied to the Maoris, as experience
had shown, in less than a generation. Law
and order must be maintained, and the
Maoriland Government must govern in
Samoa, but with a little more sympathy and
understanding on the part of the adminis-
tration there would be much less friction.
When a Samoan chief was exiled and gaoled
in Auckland for not paying his taxes, the
Maoris wondered why all the people of their
race who were in arrears with their rates
were allowed to go free. Ngata urged that
the Government, when considering Samoan
problems, should seek the advice of members
of the House, such as ex-Premier Coates,
Ken Williams, of the Bay of Plenty, and
others, including himself, who understood
Polynesians.
“Nikko”: It is not only animals that are
artificially finished for show purposes. Any-
one who has watched a gardening enthusiast
patiently curling his pet chrysanthemums
for exhibition knows that. One of my
acquaintance used to arise shortly after mid-
night on show day to prepare his exhibits,
and put in ten hours of hard work on the
flowers with which he intended to top the
prize list. Petal by petal he gave the chry-
santhemums their prize-winning curve, each
carnation wore a tiny rubber band high up
on its neck, the under side of pink rose
petals was made a more beautiful hue by
the application of tinted paint, and other
blooms were skilfully tipped with a touch
of . color. He invariably won a wealth of
prizes, and sold innumerable cuttings and
selections of seed. If the buyers did not
achieve quite the same effect as that which
they had admired at the show they doubtless
attributed the differences to change of soil
or climate.
“aw”. mu. vavn fW i OTIT „ .
, ® a ™ *l,, +
iIOIH 11G1 AlllGS 101 tliC tIGHCIIGS they OCCU-
j>f if FrS lo td
SHHSSr 15
bieakfast was some-
haJr°f ® per b £ acl per n*fbt-
f® e ba ™ s Y®j; a . no } wa ! £ or crops, they
u.pm, p ul® r by , tbe t [ oops
® ®5iAkL mai ! y them sheltered one
prac . tlcally no break
ye ,, ar ’ fuming the owners a
011 the outlay by some of
n ® l f„ an £ e stois in mud walls and thatching.
°® ce £ s rooms were considerably
®*V S °? le °f, no ra( l re comfortable
|r an , tae draughty, dingy attics occupied by
tne troops.
. “Morimoto”: Some of the world’s lead-
ing pathologists will meet at Manila in Jan-
uary, when the latest views and news and
a policy for the future will be aired with
regard to leprosy. Th.e Philippines are
to-day the centre of research into the disease.
At Culion is the largest leper colony in the
world. Approached from the sea it has all
the appearance of an ordinary Filipino
town. There are several streets of shops,
residential suburbs and a countryside
covered with farms and agricultural plots,
the. whole run by people suffering from
various stages of the disease. There are over
5500 lepers in Culion, yet they are only a
tithe of the full number in the Philippines.
Some research workers believe that outbreaks
of leprosy occur in cycles, and that one of
the cycles is occurring at the moment. There
is no record of it ever being worse than it is
at present in Asia,
“P.M.”: Not many years ago, in a Vic-
torian mining town, a mine manager selected
a plot of ground under “garden license,”
planted it with fruit trees, fenced it and
erected a hut thereon. Unfortunately for
him he omitted to sleep there. Just when
the trees were heavy with their first crop, a
sacked miner applied for the forfeiture of the
garden on the ground of non-compliance
with the residential conditions. The \V arden
had no option but to grant the application,
and the boss forfeited his orchard. It was
nearly daylight next morning when the dis-
possessed owner crept into bed. He was
dead tired, and his hands were blistered with
unaccustomed axework, but there was not
a tree left standing in the orchard.
“Bun” : I had a curious experience of my
own with regard to the return of stolen
property with “no questions asked” (B.
15/10/’3O). Towards the end of 1919 I
had occasion to report to one of the many
A.I.F. departments in London, and was
about to ascend the steps when I was
accosted by a worried-looking Digger wlio
handed me a small parcel. “Give it to the
bloke behind the counter,” he said. “I’ve
got to catch a train.” When I handed the
parcel over to the “bloke” and told him how
it came into my hands, he looked doubtful;
opening it, he looked surprised. Then he
jerked his thumb at a notice displayed on
an adjacent wall setting forth that Major
Whosit had lost a “very valuable autograph-
book,” that the identity of the thief was
suspected, and that if the book was returned
£1 reward would be paid and “no questions
asked.” “How do I stand for the pound?”
I queried. For answer the “bloke” disappeared
into an inner sanctum (probably the
Major’s) and returned with a brand-new
Bradbury, which I placed carefully in my
wallet. I left, however, with a profound
conviction that my story of the Digger on
the steps was regarded as a furpliy.
“Templar”: The Law surpasses itself m
asininity where libel is concerned. Judges
supposed to be governed by the rule
that “it is better for a hundred guilty men to
escape than for one innocent man to suffer,'
yet they are not infrequently to be
found blasting the characters of
reputable witnesses on thei sketchiest evi-
deuce. Parliamentanans enjoy the same
license to. libel asi Judges andl njany of them
exercise it. And then theie are the un
libellable classes. Poets, playwrights, pamt-
ers, sculptors and novelists, whose living
depends on their popularity with the public,
are liable to have m°rt danming things
by °any’ ‘ can persuade" a
was ”
t 0 «aol-
- : The first Australian attempt to
combat pests by aeroplane will be under-
taken this year by the Vic. Forests Com-
mission m one of its forests near. Ballarat,
The trees are m danger of destruction by the
lesser casemoth, and all earthbound efforts
to cope with the creature have proved of no
avail. The department proposes to dust the
forest with calcium arsenate, the Defence
Department having offered to lend a
machine.


SUNSHINE HARVESTING MACHINES
■■■
‘ v /f
I a
'
m |
mm
1 P
■
■ . ■
'
ifStlllt
THE SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER
12ft. Cut. Self Propelled. (See top illustration.)
Will harvest 40 acres in a day. Petrol consumption half a gallon to
the acre. Two men only required, one to drive and one to tend the
bagging on the bagging platform. The Auto Header secures the
maximum yield of grain from every condition of crop, heavy or light,
storm-flattened or weed-infested. It is Quick, Efficient and Eco-
nomical.
THE SUNSHINE HEADER HARVESTER
6ft., Bft. and 10ft. Cut. (See centre illustration.)
Sunshine Header Harvesters are renowned for their ability to pick
up and successfully harvest the worst down and tangled or thistle-
choked crops. They are equally effective in clean standing crops,
whether heavy or light, on hillside or level ground.
For work on very sandy or hilly country, or for rice-harvesting, the
machine can be supplied with a 4-cylinder petrol engine incorporated
to drive the mechanism. A small team suffices for haulage.
The Sunshine Header Harvester also harvests field peas, and for
this purpose a special pea-reaping front is attached to the 6ft. or Bft.
machine. In consequence, peas can be profitably grown as a rotation
crop.
THE SUNSHINE STRIPPER HARVESTER
Type A.L. Bft. and 10ft. cut. (S ee bottom illustration.)
The light-draught harvester. Five horses pull it in normal crop, six
horses in heavy conditions. Side draught is reduced to a minimum.
Successfully harvests light and heavy crops.
ALSO THE SUNSHINE REAPER AND BINDER
Sweet running, sure tying, neat sheafing, long lasting, 6ft. and Bft. sizes.
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE.
BRANCHES:
664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne; 27-39 George Street West, Sydney; 95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide; Corner Murray
and King Streets, Perth. Queensland Distributors: H. V. McKay (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
Illustrated Descriptive Catalogues, Prices and Terms, posted free on request.
Raymond Terrace.
IN WHICH J. H. M. ABBOTT
INTRODUCES US TO THE REV. DR. JOHN
DUNMORE LANG AND THE EARLY DAYS OF THE HUNTER.
f S ’HE Rev. John Dunmore Lang, D.D.,
I stood by the big white paddle-box of
A the steamer Shamrock and scanned
the faces of the passengers for the Hunter
River as they came aboard on a windy even-
ing in April. Plis fine, strong face—the face
of a scholar and a fighter—became a little
anxious as it approached sailing-time, which
in those days was at nine o’clock in the even-
ing, and the person for whom he was evidently
looking out did not put in an appearance.
Captain John Gillespie, in command of the
steamer, saw him standing thus, peering
down at the broad gangway leading from the
wharf into the ’tween decks, aft of the
paddle, which was dimly lit by a lantern
hanging over the rail, and sauntered up to
speak to him
“Looking for someone, Doctor? Well, all
our passengers ought soon be aboard, for
we cast off in iess than half an hour. Expect-
_ f r :„ nrl mphi™bag
a menu mcooe.
The tall clergyman-statesman looked
round at the stockily-built sailor, who wore
a fringe of reddish beard below Ins chin, and
smiled a greeting. They were old acquaint-
ances, for Dr. Lang was a frequent passenger
to Morpeth up the river, having many inter-
ests, clerical and otherwise, m the valley of
the Lower Hunter.
“Well, yes, Captain, I was,” he answered
with his pronounced Scottish accent. “He
should have been here by this time. Should
have been aboard an hour ago. A young
fellow I’m interested in. A laddie who
needs looking after—ra newchum from thc
old country. Sydney’s no place for tlie young
fellow—l’m sure o’ that. Strange it is how
fatuously the people at home regard Aus-
tralia as a place where young people a
little inclined to wildness sober up and be-
come steady citizens by merely setting foot
on shore. As Governor Macquarie used to
say, there’s a leaven of unrighteousness
about the place that needs constant watch-
fulness. You didn’t know the old Governor,
I take it, Captain? Before your time, eh?”
“Well, Doctor,” laughed the sailor, “give
me a chance—do! ’Tis thirty years since
Macquarie went home—and I’m only forty-
one, you know. A fine man he was, I’ve
always heard.”
“Aye, a great man. He knew this place,
and he knew the people. He had no illu-
sions about Sydney Town. ‘There are there,’
lie said to me in London, ‘some of the best
and some of the worst—you’ll find them out
for yourself, Mr. Lang.’ As indeed I have.
There are some here would corrupt St.
John the Baptist—let alone a laddie who
doesn’t know a wallaby from a dingo.”
“Plave you a few minutes you can give
me, Doctor? In my cabin. There’s a bit of
land at Raymond Terrace I’m tempted to
buy. Half a dozen town lots it is—pretty
cheap. And ’tis a place with a future, don’t
you think, as a farming centre? Come into
my cabin and take a look at. the plan I’ve
got there. I’d like your advice about it.
Your friend? Tell me his name, and I’ll
get the steward to keep a lookout for him
and let you know when he comes aboard,
Ho. can’t be long now.' Twenty minutes, and
we’re away. What’s the young gentleman’s
name?”
“Stuart McFee, Captain. Certainly, cen-
tainly—l’ll come with pleasure. The stew-
ard can let me know of his arrival.”
“Go into my cabin then, and I’ll find
the steward. I’ll not be half a minute,
Doctor. Stuart McFee?”
Down thc dark jetty, with its shingled
roof, emerging from impenetrable gloom into
the half-circle of yellow light cast by the
hurricane-lamp above the end ot the gang-
Y ay ’ anc lugging portmanteaux and carpet-
s along with them, came the most belated
0 f tlie Shamrock’s passengers. Bewhiskered
gentlemen in top-hats, tight trouserings
j oud i y checked, and silken double-breasted
waistcoats, escorted crinolined ladies, or were
farewelled by them, and bright-eyed little
gj r l s with the lace terminations of their pan-
talettes about their ankles, lugged cardboard
boxcs in the wa ke of mothers whose spread-
ing s kj r t s left no room to pass by on the
gangway,
A few idlers lounged about the dimly-lit
wharf, whiling an hour away in contem-
plation and tobacco; for Sydney in thc
’fifties had not so many other evening re-
sources that the departure of the Hunter
River packet was to be neglected. The “fast
and commodious steamships” of thc com-
pany, “replete with every comfort and con-
venience,” wherein stewardesses were avail-
able for sea-sick ladies, and the “best brands
of wines, ales, brandies and cigars” were re-
tailed in the “elegant saloons” were always
assured of some attendance, at any rate,
when they put out from Port Jackson on
nightly voyages to Port Hunter, whether
they belonged to the A.S.N. or to the Hunter
River Company. The dingy, ricketty wharves
of either corporation in Darling Harbor
were the starting-points of long journeys
into the interior—to the Hunter Valley, the
Upper Hunter, the Liverpool Plains, thc
Barwon, New England and the Darling
Downs. The King’s Wharf at Newcastle,
where the Hunter River steamers still tie
up; the Hexham Ferry, Raymond Terrace;
Morpeth, at the head of navigation; the
Northumberland Hotel at West Maitland,
most famous of northern coachixig hostelries
—these were all served by the “fast and com-
modious” in the first stages of many long
journeys towards affluence or poverty or
adventure.
And so we come to the embarkation of
Mr. Stuart McFee, “frae Edinburgh, ye
ken ” full of high hope and bad whisky, and
eseo'rted by sundry persons whom Dr. Lang
would verv readily have classified as un-
toSibl“hadhe V on deck to witness
thnf nrmdifvine deDurture.
The mate ftfnllM
paddles, and two of the crew hadrtho haulmg
ropes m their haiids , drived
cumbious gangway, w e i • x 1 ‘ •
A bonny lad was Stuart Melee normallj
—a healthy, simple-minded, wholesome young
Scot with a ruddy, fresh face and La e-
donian accent that sometimes made ins
speech almost unintelligible to soutnron
bodies. But to-night lie was far trom bonny
for he was “unco’ stewed. llie wine bad
been red, the whisky brown and muddy, ie
beer copious during a day of alcoholic tare-
wells and partings. He was accompanied
hv two flash but less lntoxieated companions
who sang a version of Auld Lang Syne
lii differing keys, and supported him with
difficulty and uncertainty as they guided
Ins staggering steps to the gang-plank.
Having released Mr. McFee from then
supporting clutches, they gave him a com-
hined shove, and he staggered on to the gang-
way, halted and swayed solemnly for a
moment or two, and then, as though with
deliberation and intent, walked into the black
and oily waters below the paddle-box.
“Hold her, sir—l’ll get lum! shouted the
mate as he dived into darkness after Mr.
Stuart Erskine McFee.
* * * *
th^TMman U ScS°«id 0V l!f
Ms\mTof^.wclsSl i a
sat on a bench by the port Paddle-box in
violent sea-sickness. Between each penod
of agony, during which he painfully con-
templated the cascading torrent of foam
pouring into the creamy mill-race from the
paddle, he rested his head in the crook of
his elbow on the rail and prayed'to the
god of Scotia for death. He was still damp
from the bath he had taken overnight in
Fort Jackson, and was very grimy and ash-
soiled, for they had laid his drenched, uncon-
scions form in tlie stokehole before the fur-
nace door to dry, when once assured he was
liot drowned, but only drunk. A very sorry
Scot was illuminated, in company with
Nobby’s and the ship, by the level rays of
the ascending sun, as the Shamrock churned
into Port Hunter.
Emerged from the saloon companion-way
the tall, well-set-np figure of the Rev. Dr.
Lang, a shepherd’s plaid draped about his
broad shoulders and a Glengarry cap with
fluttering black ribbons on bis handsome
head. Twice he paced the deck from the
steering-wheel and compass at the stern to
the tall black funnel between the paddle-
boxes, inflating liis lungs with the fresh salty
air, before he seemed to become aware of the
miserable object at the rail. Then lie stopped
and stared, and presently went across and
stood over his young countryman, looking
down on him in eloquent silence, with.a trace
of disgust in his expressive features. Mr.
McFee, a little comforted by the cessation
of the rolling motion of the ship as she came
into the calm waters of the estuary, re-
mained unaware of the doctor’s presence until
he spoke.
“McFee, mon wha 's wrang „ ye?
IJti ye slecpit in the asn onricl.
S tkl ?iet IIS he w«“ beKg spoken to
Dr Lang When at last he did so, he
rose unsteadily to his feet and stood swaying
before that scandalised divine.
‘‘For the guid Lor-rd’s sake, McFee, what s
befallen ye? Come awa’ below wi’ me, and
we >jj interview the steward. The hair o’
t]ie dog > g naug i lt but a snare and a delusion,
but >tig plainly t h c only treatment will bene-
ye tb j g momen t. Eh, Stuart McFee, but
, pe no a bonny siclit th’ mor-rn’—Heaven
f or gj eg oor trespasses! Come awa’ doom
man _ a weP dram ’n save y’r worthless life.’’
The doctor - s acce nt broadened when his
£ efd j ugg pressed upon them—sometimes. At
othprg _ in tlie Legislative Council, for in-
stanco wben bent upon the discomfiture of
some olitical opponent—the icy precision of
Mg English became studiously correct. He
was mll ch moved now, as.lie led the way
down to tb e steward’s little bar.
j t wag not llia til after breakfast that the
odd i y contrasted compatriots reappeared on
decb jyj r McFee had washed, shaved and
changed his raiment, and now, chastened
and downcast, and obviously penitent, paced
the poop wittl his regenerator in a mood of
say _jt- a ll-for I-deServe-it. And the Rev. John
Dunmore Lang said it all and a bit more
besides.
deS-plmiking as°th e S y down.
the sterner J--ed her voyage to
M-’P th In th S
there wns a
watei-gums, and only lieie c - „ _ ,
clearing in thei L ie. t. N w,> „ ’ acrP
is a wide, treeless piain, a. • t y
of wlnch is under the P T *?.L S b ' thnt moni _
. They did not call at Hexham flat
’ n S, an(i as ih ey r ™' , m fPittov'
Gang shifted Ins a nnsHuto
mg review of Mr. McFee s immediate past; to
a consideration of the present and the futui .
“So the fellow sold ye Mulready s block ot
land in Raymond Terrace, did he ! lwa
hunner poond! All ye had i’ the world.
And ye’ve lost y’r pocket-book, wi all yr
ready money in it! Hadn’t a bawbee to pay
for your breakfast—though, Heaven knows,
’twas scarcely worth twa shinin’/Oh, McFee,
McFee—ye puir lost loon! Will I lend yc
a poond, and pay yr fare back to Sydney.
Aye, I’ll gie ye the poond, laddie but ye I
no see Sydney this mony a long day to come,
’Tis work ye want, and tis work ye 11 do
grand hard work that 11 make a man or ye,
laddie. Listen, now. My friend Sandy
McAlister—a braw, strong man is Sandy,
who never stands nonsense from, anybody,
He’s the agent for this company at the ler-
race, and I’ll bespeak a yob for you from
him. ITc's always wanting labor, with these
Bathurst goldfields taking all tlie men in the
country from their yobs, and I make no
doubt he’ll welcome ye. And 111 tell bandy
(Continued on next pape.)


"-Cvery picture
Zells a Story" - J 1
j—Lj).
r l
L I
rmvpzr.
\u
piiijliMi 1
M
Makes Rapid
Headway
Add This Fact to Your Store
of Knowledge.
Kidney disease often advances so rapidly that many
a person is firmly in its grasp before aware of its
progress. Prompt attention should be given to the
slightest symptom of kidney disorder. , If there is a dull pain in the back, headache, dizzy spells, or a
tired, worn-out feeling, or if the kidney secretions are irregular and attended by pain, procure a good
kidney remedy at once. Sydney people recommend Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. Read these
statements:
TWO COMPLETE CURES.
Mrs. Clias. Clift, 59 Kellick Street, Waterloo, Sydney,
says: “In common with many others I have nothing but
good to say for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. Before I took
this remedy I was suffering a lot with my back, the pain at
times being almost unbearable. I could not stoop or move
freely and always felt tired and! had no energy. The secre-
tions were affected, being thick and cloudy with a red
sediment, and I had dropsical swellings on my legs and
ankles. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were one day brought
under my notice, so I sent for a bottle. They gave me relief
almost at once, so I persevered with the remedy until I was
quite cured, using in all four bottles.”
Fourteen years later Mrs. Clift says: “I have had no
reason to alter my good opinion of Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills. They cured me over fourteen years ago, and I am still
well. I always keep them in the house and take a dose now
and then, just as a preventive against any return of my old
complaint.”
TESTIMONY
FROM
SYDNEY.
Mr. William Goodger, 151 Pitt Street, Redfern, Sydney,
says: “About four years ago I began to suffer terribly
from disordered kidneys. The first warning I had of the
trouble was a pain across the small of my back, which
rapidly got worse and worse until I could hardly bear it.
My limbs began to swell, and were soon so large that I
could not put my clothes on. The kidney secretions were
in a very unhealthy state, being thick and cloudy with a red
sediment. I also suffered a good deal from rheumatism. I
was really very ill and confined to my bed for months, and
I shall never forget what I went through. I tried several
kidney medicines, but nothing gave me any relief. One day
I came across an advertisement for Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills, and after reading it decided to try this remedy. They
did me good almost at once, and I find whenever I have a
return of the trouble this remedy acts most beneficially.
All my friends marvel at the good Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills do me, and I am never tired of praising this splendid
medicine.”
g
S.NVOO
Backache
Kidney
PILLS
Sold by all Chemists and
Stores.
Or from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton Street,
Sydney.
to find ye a lodging, but no to gie ye any
siller this three month to come. And this
time three months I’ll be aroond these
pairts again, and will make inquiry con-
cerning my young friend Mr. Stuart McFee,
and I pray th’ Lor-rd Sandy’ll gie me a
good report. ’Tis a great chance for ye,
laddie—a great and worthy chance. See
ye make best use of it.”
“But, Doctor,” said the sad and sick young
man, despondently—“yon toon lots that I
bocht frae Mister Geor-rge De Vere? Yon
land canna run awa’. I’ll hae that mooch
for to realise upon.
Your Mr. George De Vere—l like the
name fine—he didn’t own that land, Stuart,
laddie. ’Twasn’t his to sell. ’Tis Tom Mul-
ready’s and the captain yonder’s, as good
as bought it from Tom On my advice, given
to him last night, whiles you were bathing
in, the harbor, lie’s going to clench the deal
th« mor-rn. No doubt, ye’ll have Mr. Do
Stuartf eCMPt s '° Ur 1 P °°
. The young man eighed Wectedl, ‘‘Twas
in ma pooch, Doctor-r th pooch Ah ve
, , . , -
Aye, and I dinna doot yon receipt s m
the bonny George’s pooch, along with your
twa hunner poond. Nay, laddie — tis Sandy
McAlister’s going to shape y’r destiny for
ye—not Mr. George De Vere. Tali’ y’r last
taste o’ gentlemanly leesure, laddie—yon
toon coming into view around the bends
Raymond . Terrace. Yes yon s Raymond
Terrace, an God s guid to us all. In three
months’ time, laddie, I’ll come and see ye
foreman o’ th’ wharf—or pit a wee flower on
y’r grave behind th’ hill, wliaur mony ,a
guid Presbyterian’ll keep ye company till the
crack o’ doom. Ye’ll work or dee, laddie,
wi’ Sandy McAlister!”
# * * *
, ", , ~ , „ , ,
In the cold and windy month of July, the
Rev. John Dunmore Lang again voyaged up
the Hunter, this time in the steam-packet
Thistle, one of the famous trinity—the Rose,
the Thistle and the Shamrock—which traded
between Sydney and Morpeth in the years
immediately before and after the gold dis-
coveries.
The doctor was in high, spirits, as he
walked the deck of the Thistle, and could
hardly refrain from bursting forth in song.
There were two good reasons for this happy
condition. One of them was that he was
looking forward eagerly to greeting his young
iriend Stuait Drskine McKee, t
monthly _ reports of Mr, Alexander _ c - .
informed him, had made very „ood dee ,
and was now the esteemed and responsible
stevedore of the company’s wharf at Ray-
mond Terrace. The other was that by his
side, promenading the deck in all his cheap
glory, and smoking'a cigar in the morning
sunshine, was a speculator in land, who had
introduced himself to Dr. Lang, with his
visiting card, as “George De Vere, Esq.”
With his stove-pipe hat perched upon the
back of his unimpressive head and liis thumbs
in the armlets of his flowered silk waistcoat,
Mr. De Vere swaggered blatantly beside the
amused clergyman, delivering himself of
sundry opinions in which the doctor found a
delight and enjoyment not easily to be
accounted for by the intrinsic merit of either
wit or gracefulness that his observations
possessed.
mesmerism, Doctor?
What dye think of it, sir? Your candid
opinion by gad, I'd like to have it. Infernal
tommy-rot, I call it. And this spiritualism?
Stuff an’ nonsense. How d’ye regard it all,
Doctor.”
The doctor chuckled again—as though at
a merry thought—and instantly became
grave. He shook his head, slowly.
“Ah, weel, I don’t know, Mr. De Vere. I
hardly know what to think of such things.
‘There are more things in Heaven and earth,’
you know, my dear sir—you remember your
‘Hamlet’ ?”
“I remember—haw, haw—l remember that
excellent omelette they gave me at breakfast
in the cuddy, Doctor. Splendiferous! Yes,
yes—pray go on, Doctor—l can’t restrain
nat’ral waggishness.”
“Oh, very good—very good, indeed, Mr.
De Vere. But I was going to say, there mag
be something in such things. 1 have little
experience. But we Scots, you know, sir—
we’re supposed—the Irish too, I believe—to
be endowed with that uncanny gift called
second-sight. I myself am not without a trace
of it. Extraordinary thing—but just at
present I have some sensation of this queer
prophetic psychic manifestation. Strange!”
“Yes, yes—my dear Doctor. Pray continue.
The future? And in what way does this
strange phenomenon possess you now?”
“If I close my eyes, Mr. De Vere” —the
doctor shut his eyes, and threw back his head,
whilst the corners of his mouth twitched —
“I can see a muddy river, and a wharf
protruding into it. On that wharf stands a
burly youth, garbed as a workman, I think—
the vision, or whatever it is, is a little indis-
tinct. H'e is awaiting someone. Ah —a well-
dressed, gentlemanly fellow approaches. He
says something to the loutish one, who looks
Surprised. Then, incontinently, he attacks the
gentleman. They struggle. The boorish
fellow prevails. Ah—-there is a mist! But,
stay.—what is this? The gentleman is swim-
ming in the muddy river. There —’tis all
gone—faded away. An exasperating feature
of such things,” he said, as he opened his
eyes. “Why, here we are at Raymond Ter-
race. I think you said you’d be getting off
here, Mr. De Vere. A great pleasure to have
met you, sir. Good-bye, good-bye.”
“Yes, I have some land transactions to
finalise here, Doctor. The pleasure is
mutual, sir. You’re a good fellow —damme
if you’re not—a real sportsman. Good luck
to you, Doctor.”
“Land transaction!” muttered Dr. Lang,
as the other went below to get his bag. “A
water transaction first, I think! Why, there’s
young McFee! How fit and well! I thank
God —I truly thank God.”
From behind the paddle-box the good
doctor watched the drama. Mr. De Vere
ascended the gangway. The browned and
hardened figure of Stuart Erskine McFee
stood by the end of it that rested on the
wharf. Mr. De Vere did not recognise him.
He saw a working man, and held out his
bulging carpet-bag, with an air of patronage.
Dr. Lang beheld slow and stupefied recog-
nition come into his young friend’s sun-
burnt features. He held his breath.
“God help De Yere!” he muttered. Then
Mr. McFee bellowed, so that the hills behind
the village might have heard him.
“Ma guidness!” he roared —that was all.
With surprising quickness Dr. Lang’s pro-
phetic vision was fulfilled:
“This Celtic gift of second-sight’s an amaz-
ing thing!” chuckled Dr. Lang to himself, as
he turned to the companion-way. ‘very
amazing!”
Manon.
Who garnered in so small a space
All that Maid Moon bears witness of
As being more worthy of her grace
Even than dreaming seas, which move
Under her radiance and curl
Round her soft fingers swirl by swirl?
She has not found in any place
So much of glimmering delight
As meets my less far-venturing sight—
Here for the recording eyes to trace,
Being some five-feet-one of girl.
N.s.w.
R. D. FITZGERALD.
The Drowned Cities.
Calm was the hour; the undulating shrouds
Of early morning mist had stolen away,
And the steepled, pale reflection of the
clouds
Lay drowning in the bay.
I saw where the unwrinkled tideways swing,
Tower and pinnacle and buttress brave,
And thought of lost Atlantis, glimmering
Beneath the glassy wave.
And dreamed that every castle in the air
That ever yet was builded lay beneath _
The butting cliff caught in the waving hair
Of the dark seaweed’s wreath.
Where the white gulls hang suspended, or
away
Over the cloudy imagery swing faster,
Oh! every castle of Spain was in that bay
In opaline disaster.
White cities of beauty, builded not with
hands.
With no duration Love might you endow!
As unsubstantial as the shifting sands
That lie beneath you now!
Oh, cities of silence, shaped of dream and
thought,
Sunk in your alien world of white and
blue,
Is all the heartache that your ruin wrought
Washed out in silence too?
A long sigh answered me from the harbor
mouth.
Over Atlantis and lost Avalon,
Darkening in ripples from the dusky
south....
My drowned cities were gone!
VICTOEIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIRL.
My Forest Friend.
Perchance, a sturdy seedling,
His roots for their foothold sought
Ere Anne was Queen of England,
Or Fontenoy was fought.
Betimes the breeze that carried
The bark Endeavour slow
To anchorage at Gabo
One sunset long ago.
Unto this sylvan sentry,
Upstanding by the shore,
An unrecorded anthem
Of high achievement bore.
Then flashed no guiding signal
From headlands near or far
Between the lazy Leeuwin
And Malagoutha bar.
Where furled the careful captain
His staunch Endeavour’s sails,
The smoke of frequent steamers
Along the sealine trails.
The ships of teak and canvas,
Hull-down, have passed from sight;
Their singing crews are silent
By either day or night.
But still the South Wind, tuning
His harp to melody,
Awakes the old responses
In this grey minstrel tree!
Bereft of leafy kindred,
For human purpose slain
That land may yield its guerdon
Of needful grass or grain,
Alone he lifts his forehead,
Unfearing, to the sky;
Nor shall he—for we love him —
By us be doomed to die.
In his high branches swaying
The magpies yodel clear,
And many bush-birds clamor
Throughout the changing year.
And, still unscathed by levin,
Or piped by termites small,
His shadow slowly circles
From sunrise unto fall.
The full moon’s magic silvers
His stately crown. The rain
Leaves at his feet in springtime
A pungent, sappy stain.
A splendid strong survivor;
A son of ancient seed,
The great gum in the paddock.
Remains a friend indeed.
Like him, my lone companion,
Methinks, though growing old,
I still must meet with courage
Whate’er the four* winds hold.
Though, what the Four Winds carry
Alike fop Man and Tree,
No one thing seemetli certain,
Except Eternity.
VICTOEIA.
E. J. BRADY.


fdg
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 4 1 4.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents—EVANS. DEAKIN & CO.. LTD., Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—9 B-107 Featheuston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Rouike Street. Melbourne.
South Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.. Adelaide, S.A.
“THE AGE”
Established 185 J/.
Victoria's Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you neglect to use “The Age” for adver-
tising, you miss one of the most vital features
in your Victorian campaign, and no advertiser
who is spending large sums to produce,
advertise and sell an article can afford to
take that risk.
“THE AGE”
has over 122,000 daily subscribers who have
confidence in their chosen publication, and
because it is a newspaper that not only goes
into the home but reaches the very heart of
the household, the advertiser who places his
products or service on record in its columns
is assured of dependable reader value.
“The Age” publishes over 1,000,000
advertisements annually.
Audited Daily net circulation
122,501.
Rates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
47 Fleet Street, London.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in S months.
THE NET SALES OF
% ##i Wate
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement' backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK.
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Austj.
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
3C Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
Clk mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
(Established 1854)
The "Mercury” is the only Metro-
politan Newspaper in the State.
Its news services, articles, typo-
graphy are unexcelled in Australia.
THE "MERCURY” COVERS
TASMANIA
And its circulation exceeds
combined figures of the dailies in
Tasmania. Delivered by fast motor-
cars, it reaches Launceston (121
miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before break-
fast.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
80 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
the Atomiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements,
Copies o) “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Gordon &. Gotch, price 1 id.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Do You Know ?
“The Week”
has special columns on the following
matters of interest to the man on the
land.
Agriculture
The Orchard
The Piggery
Poultry
Dairying
the Garden
The Grazier
Sugar Industry
Nature Notes
And many more items that will
interest and benefit him by reading.
Price 3d. per copy
From All Newsagents, or
14/6 Per Annum, Post Paid, from
THE TELEGRAPH
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane, Queensland,
who also issue “The Telegraph’'
daily—l 2 noon, 3 P-m. and 5 p.m.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it
Its yp-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
ENERGETIC, ALERT,
fig ]
THE RESULT
OP 6000 HEALTH
r
TO be alert, bright eyed
and vigorous, you need
real health.
Constipation is the common foe
of health. Dull eyes, tiredness,
depression, indicate constipation
often unsuspected. (Millions suffer
this way).
It ruins your health, and is the cause
of biliousness, indigestion, headache, and
other troubles of stomach and liver.
Beecham’s Pills are nature’s own correc-
tive for constipation. Purely vegetable—
safe —effective —they quickly put things
BEECHAMS
PILLS
YOU HEALTH
“The Examiner”
Tasmania’s Oldest Daily Newspaper. Established 1842.
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner’' because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s Best
Illustrated Weekly is the
“Weekly Courier”
fd
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 8 months from
for which 1 enclose £ ~.
NAME .. .
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/«
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
*
wr'
*
0°
»o>*
&
*»<' <s®
e
1


Winner
Every Time
No Wonder HUDSON is the
Worlds Largest Selling EIGHT
p
m
\\
a
a
WAX D AW
C
In France— Against 87 cars from every country, Hudson’s
Great Eight made a perfect score in the 9-day Tour de France
most celebrated of the annual tests on the European Con-
tinent, and was awarded the coveted Ansaldo Trophy and
other cups and medals.
In Poland —Three Hudson Great Eights tied for first place
in the important annual International 8-day Reliability Trial
sponsored by the Polish Automobile Club —a victory over the
largest field of European and American cars. All three
Hudsons finished with perfect scores.
Itt Anstralaa —Out of a possible 350 points, Hudson’s Great
Eight scored 326.04 to win the Royal Australian Automobile
Club Contest which included trials of reliability, accelera-
tion, hill-climbing and slow-running tests for smoothness.
The field of contestants was the largest ever entered in these
events.
Throughout E.S. In 7-day non-stop motor runs in a nation-
wide test, 25 stock cars ran a total of 124,750 miles without a
failure. In California Hudson’s Great Eight made a perfect
score in state trials and was selected for police duties. The
top speed exceeded 80 miles per hour.
Come see arid drive this Great Eight. Your dealer will gladly
show you their luxurious appointments and let you prove
Hudson’s Great Eight performance in any test you may choose.
HUDSON’S m 8
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY,
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales
Victoria
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
136 Phillip Street, Sydney
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
Queensland WHATMORE, McINTQSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia MOTORS, LTD.,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
Tasmania V H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,,
53 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
