

m
i
mm;;
mam
*
mm.
mmmi
a
SC
e
: '■'&
'' \ s '' ,\ ''' :;
*/ ' '' ' x-->
i ill
■
Ife
iS
* A
■y/v :■
: : .:
;
**~*m
m
m
:■:■ ■'
-*>>
v
: V> ■
o
m
A : ;;
M A
..
i
. „ k 1
_ t| • JL }
and 15 for V-
a/so in tins'
of 50 C 100
t^ eSU lsed^ C °^ e to cig ate ei g\iteeft'
tob* cC ?^ asUt , tes £ot Y oU \ CTCT & et
aives a
ta °^ e ,-V-ttP s - A " for m° nt b ' cP \
tVvt D \us covb U vftlue tot case •
P ence ’ tts *c utltl .« see * ct "
b<^ oU
W» tl °
w
CORX' TIPPtD
-ssks, I<—• 1 <—•
The Bulletin
%. ifUa 'folk frf- (iW - lUhuimuxl ? Pajt 8.
VoL 51.—N0. 2625.
Wednesday, June 4, 1930.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


'"THE New Library Catalogue for 1930 is
1 now ready, and will be forwarded with
full terras and particulars, post free, on'
application to
DYMOCK S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
There's Mister O’Ofady who married Miss Brady!
He’s takin’ his kids for a roide in th’ cari
But poor Mary Ellen—'tis sad to be tellin’—
is down wid a chronic attack of catarrh,
The doctor kapes callin’—it’s somethin’ appallin’—
He's pilin' up fees, but she’ll peg' out. I’m sure
Regob and begorra! I’ll cal] in to-hiorra.
And recommend Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure
I
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
Please, send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explainin'*
ydw Muscular Movement System of Writing as
advertised in, the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address ... •
S B. 314
fIUYSAGHTT
o
R
-AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries,
All users of Galvanized iron should specify
Lysaght's Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
HOLBROOKS
SAUCE
jwt
* 3T
£ <3
x
4- T*TCjBW
WORCESTERSHIRE
THE PICNIC
Ho£t Holbrook Says:
“Those chops grill-
ed in the open air
over a bush fire!
Nothing more appetis-
ing when served with
my Worcestershire
Sauce.”
r\
BIRKMYRE S CLOTH
(Regd. Trade Mark.)
In addition to.“BIRKMYRE'S CLOTH” be-
ing a Registered Trade ..Mark tlie following
are also Registered Trade Marks, eaeh_ com-
plete in itself.
“BX” “H” "S”' and “K”
“L” “OM” “M” and “N”
Any one of these marks will protect, your
interests
Th “ GOUROCK Export Co. LTD.
379 Keiit-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Charlotte-street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders-street, Melbourne, Vic.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
i_
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a too man needs to Jcnow.
D
&
w
AND ALL BRISBANE READS It
Sydney Rep.: H. 0. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET,
Cutieura
Talcum Powder
the
Toilet and Nursery
It is cooling arid it is soothing.
Pure and delicately medicated
Cuticura Talcum is ideal for
every member of the family. It
is antiseptic, absorbs perspir-
ation and leaves the skin re-
freshed.
Soap
Oint
and 2 »
Talcum
Sampl
each free
Address:
R. Towns
ILIi
4 oz. can Is. 3d.
“Dad’s given
me a bonzer
Pen!”
T-JIS first pen ! One that he
• LX will handle with pride,
and use with satisfaction a
‘Blackbird.’
It will give him a new interest
in his studies, and encourage
habits of painstaking neatness
so necessary to his education
and development.
Strong, sturdy, long-lasting.
The practical gift for the school-
boy or girl.
For all Pens use “ Swan ” Ink.
BhAC MRO
FmmrffiNS
m
Sri
mj
-
■■■ -
' ' ' , v -
-
1
~<v> t
'BLACKBIRD*
Self-filling Pena
from
upwards.
OF STATIONERS & JEWELLERS
Illustrated Catalogue post free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD., Swan House.
London, W.i.
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair
Service Depot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY. Ltd.,
181, Clarence Street, 1
R(A.)
The Red Page
The Literary Game
Twenty years of Fleet-street! And in
speaking of it this patidht blacksmith will
not go beyond his hammer. I spent three
years in Sydney hammering out a first
novel. It was a crude, disjointed thing that
fell to pieces under A. Cl. Stephens’s first,
critical scrutiny. He carried it to his
mountain den and bravely set to work re-
modelling its ill-constructed chapters until
it looked readable. After three years’ re-
building we offered it to an Australian pub-
lisher. It was promptly turned down
because one of the villains was a Scotch-
man. a defaulting station overseer.
About 1904 Stephens carried the MS.
to London, but failed to connect with a
publisher. In- 1907 I put the book at the
bottom of my cabin-trunk and set off for
the Mecca of my dreams. For two years I
forgot its presence until my name appeared
over an Australian serial, “Children of the
Cloven Hoof,” in London “Daily Tele-
graph.” Then my agent Pinker took it to
a firm and got it accepted, conditionally
that I knocked out Jean Barradas’s bloody
suicide. I knocked it out. After all, busi-
ness is business.
“The Lady Calphurnia Royal” was a
shocking title' lor a novel. Anyway, within
a month of its appearance' hi London it
was pirated in IJ.S.A. by the Macaulay
Company, who offered me 50 dollars, con-
science money, if I would allow them to
change the title to “Our Lady of Dark-
ness.” On the advlCe of my agent I
consented, for, as he pointed out. Macaulay
was in a position to take it for nothing.
We had no copyright in the States.
In eight years Macaulay sold 300,000
copies of the book at one dollar fifty a
copy! In England about 3000 copies were
sold and paid about £5O in all. Three
years’ work! After that I kept a.wolfish
eye on Uncle Sam’s copyright.swindles.
My second infliction, -“The Radium
Terrors,” saw print first with Munsey
as a serial, and then with Doubleday .Page
as a book. In three years Double-
day was only able to remit, £9O on
safes. Then it was taken over by Caldwell
o! N.Y., who ran it in his International
series with Sherlock Holmes and Leblanc
and, James Francis Dwyer’s “White Water-
fall.’ Dwyer was another Bulletins: writer
who made good over there. And if Dwyer’s
contract with Caldwell was as good as mine,
he netted about £6OOO for his literary
innings.
These are the literary plums. What
about the thistles?
W rite and sell a novel on the usual 10
or 12 per cent, basis, and there’s your
thistle. Any old novel ought to take from
three to twelve months to write, and the
payment will be anything from a fiver to
20 pounds. And the kudos—nix.
It nearly broke Joe Conrad’s heart. I
used to meet him in the office of the “Pall
Mall” magazine, then edited by Charles
Morley, nephew of John. The maga. was
owned by W illiam Waldorf Astor, who .ran
it in the interests of art or something. Con-
rad’s short serial, “The Duel,” was running
alongside my Bully Hayes yarn§, 1910.
Conrad complained of the eight guineas a
thousand words paid him for his stuff, as
against the fabulous sum paid Wells for his
“War in the Air,” in the same magazine.
Morley shyly reminded Conrad that eight
guineas per was more than any other Lop-
don publication would pay for stuff like
“The Duel.” And Conrad knew he was
right.
Conrad always reminded me of my old
collaborator, A. G. Stephens, voice, manner,
eye and stance. You left them both won-
dering whether you had been interfering
with a dreamer or a volcano. Conrad
would sit quietly listening until your foot
came down on his pet illusion. And then
the crater woke and poured the scalding
stuff about your ears. Of the two men
A.G.S. was more patient, less jumpy and
infinitely more catholic in his appreciation
of younger writers. Before Conrad’s first
success came with “Chance” he was prob-
a.bly the saddest and most sensitive writer
since. Poe.
Of magazine fiction it is hard to speak.
To-day’s live story is to-morrow’s' dead
joint. Editors come and go. New editor,
new staff, new horizons, plots and sex moti-
vations. Each maql brings me tidings of
U.S.A. editors’ fresh needs and printed
instructions. “Begin your yarns with a
kick, says one, “and don’t stop kicking.
Action gets our cheques. Get down to it.
Study our needs. Don’t waste time and
stamps bombarding us with psycho-analysis
punk when you ought to be delivering
straight-on-the-dimple drama. Get to it.”
The American editor knows what he
wants. The Englishman nevei;. When I
am tempted to write in my old Bulletin
style I think of the fate that befcl that
once popular English magazine, “The
Idler.’ About 1910 its circulation slumped.
Jerome K. Jerome had sold it to a com-
Pany. Said the editor, “I know what our
readers want.” And straightway he bought
a lot of 0. Henry’s stories from a Fleet-
street agent and began printing them with
plenty of pictures. One of the last num-
bers of “The Idler” contained “The Gift
of the Magi,” one of the finest short
stories ever written. But a hundred such
masterpieces would not have affected the
English magazine reading public. During
1911 the serial rights of Q. Henry’s yarns
were being hawked in Fleet-street, at three
guineas each with no takers, while Charles
Garvice and Oppenheim were asking and
getting a hundred pounds for stories of
similar length.
In 1925 I wrote asking Kipling if he
would accept dedication of a book of my
short yarns. About nine publishers had
turned the book down. One firm wrote me
saying that although the stories were this,
that and the other in their way, they were
nervy about the libraries taking copies.
Hot the firm felt sure that if I showed the
MSS. to Kipling, say, and was able to
obtain permission for said dedication, they
would publish.
I followed their advice and sent the
MSS. to the big man. Probably he took
the trouble to read them. Anyway, here’s
his letter, or that part of it which matters:
... . [ should fool honored if you saw fit to dedi-
cate your next book as you suggest, though I confess
1 don’t feel myself in any wav worthy of such a
dedication.—Yours sincerely, Rudyavd Kipling.
That little book, “Stories to the Master,”
crossed seven European frontiers and has
now gone into Braille. It w r as reviewed in
every country of its translation, France.
Germany, Scandinavia, Holland, U-.S.A.’.
Italy and Spain. In lingland, it did not
earn a single review. Here was effective use
of silence in checking Dedications.; to the
Big Man, Forewords, Bellringing and other
Ballyhoo in books. In France, Germany and
the U.S.A: the short story is regarded as the
most difficult art-form; and my complaint
still holds that the English press is covertly
hostile to this form of literature.
In the matter of judging new philoso-
phies, politics, verse and the genuine three-
decker, the Englishman approaches the
Olympians in his outlook. At present his
reactions to the conte resemble those of the
egg-inspector and the gentlemen whose
business it is to report lucidly on asylums
and the meaning of fogs.
ENGLAND.
ALBERT DORRINGTON.
Not So Quiet
]\°t So Quiet,” by Helen Zenna Smith (London:
L. -Marnott, Ltd.; Sydney: Angus and Robertson) ;
ns. WAAC,” anonymous (London; T. Werner
Laurie, Ltd.) ; 6s.
The only person to whose notice these books can
be conscientiously recommended is the chief com-
missioner. of , police, with a view to his taking
■suitable action. ■
By that notice, which appeared in Mel-
bourne “Argus,” the reviewer demands
police protection for his readers against
one or all of three things—obscenity, blas-
phemy and statements dangerous to the
established order. The second book men-
tioned I have not read, but I have just laid
down “Not So Quiet” and the “Argus”
remarks provide a convenient text for a
discussion of it, for they represent a large
body of opinion, mainly official.
Not So Quiet” is the story of an English
girl flung out of high school straight into
Armageddon. It bears all the signs of being
pure autobiography. Occasionally Miss
Smith uses the arts of the story teller-
condensation, dramatic intensity, putting
speeches into the appropriate mouths—
but it is a true story she is telling, or, what
is just the same, it has the air of being so
—or so it strikes me. And it also strikes
me that, except to those who prefer to
think the last war was a nice war, it must
so appear to other people.
The “Argus,” however, prefers to think
if was a nice war,- or wants its readers to
think so. Unfortunately for the paper’s
good intentions, it is now fairly well estab-
lished that in the last war millions of white
men killed, maimed, blinded and gassed
other millions of white men, while Asia
looked on and sniggered. It is impossible to
kill and maim millions of people with high
explosives and flame-throwers in the space
Of four years and keep the job tidy. Men
could not do that job, so women, who have
always done much of the dirtier work of
civilisation, were asked to do the dirtier
work of Armageddon.
Like the staunch Briton she was. Miss
Smith volunteered and went to France as
an ambulance driver. If we are to believe
ber, she was there asked to endure more
in proportion to the delicacy of her struc-
ture than even the male soldier—biting
{Red, Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—one of the foundation-stones on which this firm is built.
Anthony
Horderns’
(THE SENIOR STORE)
Electric Heat for Warmth, Cleanliness
and Economy.
Modern science has brought few more pleasing innovations than electric fires. You can switch
them on and off in a second—there is no waste, no trouble and no dirty ashes to clean up the
following morning. The various models we feature below represent the ultimate in efficiency and
value. They are Australian-made, and equal or better to any produced in the world.
Heda “Ideal,”, 28/6
A remarkably low-priced
Hecla model, constructed
of stamped sheet metal,
and finished oxidised
copper. Sturdy in design
and good in appearance.
Size: 9-inch reflector;
1000 watts 28/6
12-inch reflector, 1000
watts. Price .... 36/6
Hecla “Century,” 52/6
A charming Period design
that presents a fine appear-
ance in the home. Strongly
constructed of cast-iron,
finished copper. 9in. re-
flector, 1000 watts, 52/6.
12in. reflector, 1000
watts, 63/6. 12in. reflec-
tor, 2000 watts, two-heat
control. Price, 82/-
Heda “Royal,” 67/6
Sun-bar Fire, sturdily
constructed of solid sheet
brass, finished Florentine
bronze. A design that
may be used in any exist-
ing fireplace. Size:
high, 15 in. wide x 5 fin.
deep. 2000 watts. Two-
heat control. Price, 67/6
Hecla “Regal,” £6/6/
An electricoal fire, giving
a cheerful glowing heat
over the whole room. A
realistic imitation that
delights those who like
the look of a coal fire.
Finished in Florentine
bronze. Size: x
x 8£ inches. Consumes
1500 watts. Price, £6/6/-
V >:
wj&wt
A REALISTIC GLOWING FIRE
The Empress ’ design Electricoal Fire is almost indis-
tinguishable from a cheerful blazing coal fire with
flickering, leaping flames. Handsomely constructed of
solid cast-iron, finished in either antique brass or Flor-
entine bronze. Two-heat control—consumes 3000 watts
on full heat. Size: inches high, 21 inches wide, 10
inches deep. This is absolutely the last word in electric
fire design. Price £ 12/12/-
(Dept., Second Floor. Free delivery City and Suburbs. Delivered
free on rail or boat Sydney.)
Rugs—for Gold Winter Nights.
The following Rugs are made from Pure Australian Wools —
in beautiful designs and colors. They make an ideal, hard-
wearing bed covering for cold nights.
“The Palace,” 21/-
This is a heavyweight Rug in a wide
range of serviceable designs. Fringed
ends. Size, 60in. x 72in.
Price, ea 21/-
“The Royal,” 25/-
A heavyweight Rug in a range of colors
and designs similar to the “Palace”
only larger. Size, 60in. x 80in.
Price, ea
25/-
“The Renown,” 39/6
A soft, fleecy-finish Rug of excellent
quality. A wide range of the most
popular shades, 60in. x 80in.
Price, ea 39/6
“The Albany,” 50/-
A beautiful quality heavyweight Rug,,
in a wide range of beautiful designs.
Reversible. Size, 60in. x 80in.
Price, ea 50/*
(Rugs, Ground Floor, George Street. We pay carriage.)
JSIBB
iuuQgS)
w
'Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED,
SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


it
m
T!
w
X
*
V
/
%
r
L
£
1
Palm Test • • •
shows you why Goodyear
has the best non-skid
tread.
2
Cord Test. • •
3 i
shows you why a
Goodyear Supertwist
Cord carcass has
greater endurance.
Two Reasons
And One Proof
There are two main parts to a
tyre: the tread; the tyre body.
Goodyears are superior in both.
Press down on the Goodyear
Tyre Tread. The deep-cut
diamond blocks grip your
hand. That is how they grip
the road—safe and slipless.
The cord testing machine
shows you the greater stretch
—up to 60% —in Goodyear
Supertwist Cord over ordinary
cord. This gives the tyre body
vitality and ability to . with-
stand all road-shocks without
premature failure.
Proof: More people the world
Over ride on Goodyear Tyres
than on any other make.
Goodyear Tyres are made in
Australia and they cost no
more than any other make.
HOI—OB


' -J
wi
Lags
4a
WNCH&ftk
1
I
MADE IN U S.A.
pQtLQW
LUBRICATES. CLEANS. POLISHES ANO
PREVENTS rust.
A DEPENDABLE OENERAL UTILITY OIL
tor use where a light lubrica>"
OF HIGH QUALITY IS REQUIRED. TN»
, OIL WILL NOT CUM. BECOME BAND”'
OR DRY OUT. IT FLOWS FREELY ARB
is Easily applied.
CONTENTS 3 FLUID OUNCES
Winchester Repeating Arms Co.
New Haven ,Conn.,U.SA _
will find a hundred uses for
WMCffSSTM
TMADC MARK
GENERAL
UTILITY OIL
KEEP a can at hand tc ail your sewing machine, phonograph,
vacuum cleaner, washing machine, locks and door hinges.
Polish pianos, radio cabinets and other woodwork with it. Keep all
metal parts and objects bright and free from rust. A drop or two
of this fine oil works wonders in countless different places around
the home, the office and the farm. Buy a can today and banish rust,
squeaks and friction.
If you are a sportsman —ask also for' Winchester Metal Prepara-
tions for your gun-—Gun Oil, Gun Grease, Rust Remover and
Crystal Cleaner. They will help you keep your shotgun, rifle,
revolver or pistol in prime condition.
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN, CONN., U. S. A.
IS
ESTER
TRACE MARK
J
w
WtNCHESm
wmcfttsm
CRYSTAL
CLEANER
BA.
EMQV
ilUiiiiUiiu
»uiii u
cold, filthy rations, continual danger, whole-
sale destruction of all the elementary-
decencies, senseless tyranny of the feminine
brass hats, who were even more ingenious
in devising means of making the rank and
file miserable than their masculine equiva-
lents. Into a couple of years Miss Smith
crushed more experiences than come to
most people in a lifetime. She became
regrettably coarse in her tastes. She
learned to swear like the proverbial trooper.
What she didn’t know about sex at the
end of her service could be written on a
postcard; and her ideas about religion were
mainly blasphemous.
In any circumstances it is deplorable that
a young lady should thus cease to be a
young lady. Obscenity in a girl is a sad-
dening spectacle. So is blasphemy, and so,
perhaps, is precocious knowledge about the
! unctions of one’s body. On that topic w 7 e
can all agree with the “Argus.” Rightly,
though by inference, the “Argus” critic con-
demns it. But his silence condones a worse
obscenity. It is an obscenity which Miss
Smith obviously aims to expose, to the light
of day and which she does expose with a
ruthlessness to my mind wholly praise-
worthy. That is the obscenity of the war
itself. No more filthy gesture was ever
made by supposedly civilised man in the
face of his own humanity; and if the
Creator or First Cause was not profoundly
disgusted with it all and turned His
back on Europe while Armageddon was
being decided, nothing was more blasphe-
mous.
So it all boils down to this, that what the
“Argus” wants police protection from is
Miss Smith’s attack on the romantic idea
of war such as it purveys in its magazine
section. If Miss Smith whimpered about
the nastiness of her job as people are apt
to whimper about any job they don’t like
doing, there would be some justification for
its attitude. The misery of a V.A.D. at
the front is no more, if no less, a subject
for sentimental pity than the misery of an
underpaid and overworked skivvy in peace-
time. But Miss Smith writes on a higher
plane than that—a plane a trifle too high
for the “Argus” reviewer, apparently. Her
grim, realistic picture of amazing fortitude
and endurance is, by and large, a plea for
the application of adult intelligence to the
affairs of humanity. She is the grown-up—
she may be able to give some of her critics
a few mental years, perhaps. She has the
-same clear-eyed perception of the greater
issues as the writer of “Class 1902,” in which
a German schoolboy paints his elders behav-
ing like destructive infants, and which has
been banned by the Australian censor.
The “Argus” frequently points out in its
leaders the necessity for a strong Empire,
but it fails to observe that there is more
than an empire at stake when the whole
white race for destructive purposes mobilises
scientist against scientist and schoolgirl
against schoolgirl. In this sense, “Not So
Quiet” is certainly dangerous to the estab-
lished order.
M.G.S.
Censorship
Cecil Mann’s able defence of our free-
dom of thought in his recent criticism of
the censorship of literature leaves little to
be said from that particular viewpoint. The
person who desires an opportunity of in-
dulging his taste for all classes or any class
of literary expression should have it; and,
from the freedom of .thought angle, is
justified in holding that any theoretical
damage to less balanced minds is not his
affair. As Cecil Mann argues, the effect
on the other fellow’s daughter should be
the other fellow’s business. The value of
censorship may be questioned, however,
from quite a different angle. I am a
-•,ct* i • , , • i
minister of religion, and it is most certainly
my duty to care what happens to the other
fellow’s daughter. I want to do the best
I can to protect her mind and everyone’s
mind from injury. Yet the conviction
deepens that censorship will never succeed
in protecting any mind from injury.
Not that much of the so-called literature
doesnt merit banning. Judging from a
value standard, the censors probably have
very good reason for banning it. Far too
much screech about “Wowsers,” “Hypo-
crites” and “Fanatics” is heard from
mongers of filth, horror and bestiality. Easy
arguments, these, for any author, no matter
how nauseous the literary fare he offers.
TTnvlinfr iLpsp OT „„,,; mr Yt-g+iwo
Hurling t •- oi mg epithets, writeiv.
have del ended the most disgusting
obscenity.
But, after all, the efforts of the censors,
though well meant, only serve to defeat
their own purpose. The object of educa-
fion should be a riate nnf r.f
tion should be a state, not of innocence,
but of discilmmation. The father who
keeps his boy for ever out of the water for
fear of him drowning does the boy no ser-
vice, but an injury. Let the boy become
accustomed to the water and learn to master
it. Character grows strong by dealing
with things moral and things immoral, and
by choosing the better. A little patient
guidance while choice is in the process of
u: i , 7, i u
cultivation s voith more than all the
censorship m the world. Let all this objec-
tionable, disgusting, revolting or merely
“misunderstood” stuff come out into the
open light of public opinion. Stripped of
its glamor, and judged openlv alonoridp
the sane, true, enriching literature it will
„ irai ,i rnn + n vicrloffu i„, , • Y,
eoon diop to its rightful leve , taking its
exalted or mg onous place, as the case may
be, in the public mind, which, after all,
will not be ruined beyond repair by its
experience.
G.A. BAILY.
Homicidal Mania
In The Fifth Victim (Harrap; Dymocks)
the Australian Dale Collins has written a
completely original type of horror-novel.
Amongst other innovations it is without
the element of mystery, and the sympathies
of the right-thinking are with the slayer.
Futile little Den O’Dare is first encoun-
tered as he emerges, “his mouth tremulous
at the corners, his hands fluttering, from
the grey box of the gaol.” The style is
all like that—mannered, over-emphatic—
but there is a reason for it. The events are
shown as they riot through the disordered
brain of the ex-convict. His slut of a wife
is a being of radiant charm. She takes
him in her arms, and:—
All the lutes were struck behind the purple cur-
tains. The Court magicians caused great • scarlet
flowers to bloom in the air, ripen, shed their petals
in red rain, and instantly grow again as though
spring trampled on the heels of spring.
The outcast who lives on her -is hand-
some, “a gentleman.” Even Goldstein, the
bookmaker-fence, is surrounded by a hide-
ously impressive aura. Den murders them
all. He also murders an inoffensive
stranger as a blind. And all his murders
are perfect ones. The author loads the
dice in Den’s favor by making him Eng-
land’s most brilliant forger and a chemist
(“When one with medical knowledge goes
wrong,” said Conan Doyle, “he is the first
of criminals”), by assuming that his victims
have no suspicion of the appalling danger
of their position. Still giving that in, it is
a credible story right up to the moment
when:—
Den’s shoe-button eyes rolled up; his small bald
head fell down; he crouched; he dropped over on his
side, knees drawn to chin. With the pricking of
hia bubble, the cyst pressing on his brain had
burst in a final blaze of bewildering light.
Dale Collins has done nothing so dramatic
since “Ordeal.”
J.B.D.
Books Worth Reading
This list ha§ been compiled by a com-
mittee nominated by the Associated Book-
sellers of Australia and Maoriland. It is
printed as a guide to books of merit,
though not necessarily with the Red Page’s
endorsement:—
General Literature: —Donn Byrne, Bard
of Ardagh, by Thurston Macaulay; An Out-
line of Australian Literature, by H. M.
Green; C. E. Montague, by Oliver Elton;
The Term of His Natural Life (the com-
plete edition), by Marcus Clarke; Along the
Track, by R. H. Croll; The Cruise of the
Kronprinz Wilhelm, by Count Nlezyehowski.
Novels of Literary Merit ;—Rogue Ilerries,
by Hugh Walpole; The Man Who Lost Him-
self, by Osbert Sitwell; Turn Back the
Leaves, by E. M. Delafield.
Novels for Popular Reading: —Exiles, by
Warwick Deeping; Passion Flower, by Kath-
leen Norris; The Golden Goat, by Donn
Byrne; En Garde, by Samuel Morse;
Journey’s End, by It. S. Sherriff and Vernon
Bartlett; The Romantics, by Mary Roberts
Rinehart; Moulded in Sand, by Scotland
Liddell; These Generations, by Elinor Mor-
daunt; Sally of Slopers, by Oliver Sandys;
Spring Dust, by Olive Wadsley; Love’s
Illusion, by J. D. Beresford.
A Satchel of Books
Birth Control on Trial, by Leila Secor
Florence (Allen and Unwin). Results, suc-
cessful and often otherwise, of the work of an
English birth-control clinic. Sordid reading,
but it deserves to be read by all interested in
the subject.
Silver Boy, by Vance Joseph Hoyt (Chap-
man and Hall). Animal life in American
wilds. Dr. Hoyt captures and, by sheer kind-
ness, tames a full-grown fox, and generally
fraternises with the wild things throughout
his brightly-written, nicely-illustrated book.
The Subtlety of G. B. Shaw, by Patrick
Braybrooke,' F.ILS.L. (Palmer), is the un-
critical production of a fervent admirer who
worships Pshaw less as an artist (as which
he will be remembered, if he is remembered)
than as a saint (as which he will certainly
bo forgotten). There are liberal quotations.
Catholic Education in N. S. Wales, by
Rev. Brother Urhan Corrigan (Angus and
Robertson). A short history of the Catholic
schools of N.S.W.; Australians total is 1400,
with 9000 teachers and nearly 200,000 child-
ren. The writer draws largely upon hitherto
unpublished documents, and in a plain,
matter-of-fact style does his job very well
indeed.
In The Mammon of Righteousness (John
Murray) P. C. Wren joins the crowded
ranks of mystery-writers. However, the
novel is something more than a thriller. Its
main theme is one he has exploited before —
the spiritual damage that tyrannical parents
are liable to do to their offspring. The sup-
posed murder—which is not one, though a
man gets hanged for it —is plausibly worked
out, and the characterisation is admirable,
Mrs. Dashwood-Coxe and her unhappy son
being the best of a lifelike lot. The only
dull spot in a story which is told on original
and effective lines is the long-drawn-out
trial at the end.
The Man Behind the Booh, by Henry Van'
Dyke (Scribners; Dymocks). Free from the
omniscience and loud cynicism of most Ameri-
can literary criticism. The writer is a lover
of literature, with a persuasive manner, a
quiet humor and a strong sense of propor-
tion. He goes over a good deal of old
ground, but his freshness of outlook would
excuse him if he did nothing else. He is
even better on new ground, and his Ameri-
can chapters—on Poe, Whitman and the
authors of “The Bridge of San Luis Rey”
and “Death Comes for the Archbishop”—are
especially interesting. Following the Carly-
lean precept, he attempts to reveal the effect
of society upon the writer and the writer’s
effect upon society. Several Australians are
badly in need of a similar service.
Answers to Correspondents.
xVo notice (except oj a hostile character ) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
W.R.M.: You’ve got the wrong idea of a
surprise ending. The thing that happens, though
unexpected, mustn’t be ridiculous... .G.A.8.: Doesn’t
ring true. But it’s not badly done... .Narrango:
Hardly. You don’t persuade them he’d be so
casual... .R.J.A.: Opens well, then lets us down.
. ...L.0.E.: Pretentious—which is one of the greater
sins.... Baa: Dished up well enough; but the deft
dishing leaves it still warmed-up hash.... 5.0. N.:
Too tangled... .Reso: The Land Page man is hungry
for just such little hints. Don’t worry about the
writing as long as it’s clearly intelligible A.E.:
“The Trooper’s Story” all introduction and no inci-
dent; other commonplace... .John Milton: Com-
miserations on your return to this benighted earth.
.. . .R.H.: Trifle labored. ... J.S.M.: Doesn’t suit this
market... .A.N.W.: You can do better. .. .E.M.J.:
Might have gone down years ago. It looks dated.
. ...G.W.: Sorry; answers restricted to thisi column.
Don’t fancy the verse, but on the strength of it
cannot say either “Go ahead” or “Drop it”....
Pasha Pat: Might improve on those... .S.R.McD.:
No space for moralising... .R. 8.: One of them was
fair as a club story when we first heard it....
C.C.: Try them elsewhere.... Vamac: Thinnish.....
M.G.: Beaten in the second round.... Bellerive: A
tribute as just as it is overdue: —
In the vessel Fram from Norway
Sailed Nansen and he’s crew.
Bound for the arctic north.
Exploration to pursue.
Accompanied by intrepid men.
The leader brave and bold.
Was inspired with hope and daring,
Like a viking grim of old.
Where explorer’s sadly perished,
In -attempts to penetrate.
The ice and snowy regions.
The big lottery of fate.
Man to man they ventured.
And proudly reached their goal.
When back from snow and darkness.
They sailed from the freezing pole.
.... 5.0.1.: Only part that can be accepted is the
assurance that it is original work.... Einel: Nothing
to our taste in that lot. .. .Pingo: Doesn’t take its
tag any further... .Wango: Humor is of the stretched
variety... .T.A.S.: Sorry to hear “We live in a dull
commercial age, where men sell their souls for a
basic wage.” We had thought politicians got a
better screw than that.. .. J.E.F.: No offer for “The
Faun”... .E.8.J.: The swing of it made the basket
giddy... .G.A.M.: Both sides of the paper—but that’s
not the worst fault... .E.O’D.: “Do you get up
early when the dawn mist veils the hills?” To be
quite frank, n 0... .8.A.J.: Has some merit... .8.R.:
Not enough point to force the cashbox... .H.M.A.:
“To J.P.8.” to w.p.b Pom: ,Still missing fire
in a cylinder or two. ...T.M.: Expect you to do
better. Dodge that brand of refrain.... M.H.: Still
don’t care for them Onlooker: True enough, but
obvious G.P.8.: “God’s Epic” is rather prosy. ...
K. 11.: You trip a bit hunting for rhymes.... Endee:
Your muse seems to be suffering from a puncture
3. Stirrup: Thirsty chap gulping a beer and then
emitting steam has been met before. .. .A.E.P.:
Something in the idea of treating a town like that,
but you’d have to get out of Brooke’s shadow to be
seen... .G.R.: “Finis” awarded top weight in the
Aged Stakes... .A.K.: Should be all right for a
theatrical magazine.... J.S.L.: Unless memory’s very
faulty, the child side of the hymn question was
well discussed in that controversy.. .. J.P.McIv.: Only
the space problem beat it. ...V.C.Yards too long,
and subject not interesting enough. .. .F.S.H.: “Long
Pig” too long by a tale... . J.M.M.: Spelling
grotesque; story puerile. .. .L. 8.: Romance of pros-
perous young bookmaker and blonde blighted....
H.F.W.; Conclusion left in the air... .P.M.; No gold
in that... .E.S.: Forced humor and stale theme....
C.T.: Too obviously artificial... .A.T.: A weedy
plant to be “one of the most intricate cases in the
annuals of criminology”. . . .P.L.: Morbid.... J.T.P.:
Unsuitable, though pretty well done. .. .H.C.V.:
Subject too juvenile... .H.C.: “The thunder roared
and growled”—don’t wonder if it read your story
. ...C.C.: “Dr. Syntax” (if original ed.), £5;
“Sentimental Journey,” 305.; “Poems of Ossian,”
255.; the others, no value... .E.N.D. (Prospect):
Not for us, though by no means badly written....
S.N.G.: Unable to reprint those verses. Why not
send them to the paper directly interested ?. ...
F.W.W.: Needs a link between the legend and the
lady... .M.H.S.: A type of story that requires
scientific knowledge behind it... .G.A.L.C.: Far
below standard... .C.E.H.: To be isolated on an
island with a musician and a tin whistle is a tragedy,
not a mere story... .A.G.: A poor thing. .. .G.0.A.:
Nice little suburban story guaranteed to pass any
censor... .P-E.S.: So impassioned it turned the ink
red... .E.A.P.: Not badly written, bub subject
threadbare... .W.H.N.: Might make a movie story.
. ...C.E.: Side of pioneering life best forgotten.
.... Abonias: Delighted to hear from you. Will
look up desired sketch. Who made it?....Torn
Pepper; Quite right. We hereby give formal notice
that “Tom Pepper” and “Thomas Pepper” arc not
one and the same liar; and if “Thomas Pepper”
will become “George Washington” “Tom P.” will
cease from troubling and a weary editor will rest.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.Y.A.: Time that gag was withdrawn from circu-
lation... .C.F.L.: Stiff composition; low-grade jest.
.... T.A.G.; Spoilt by faulty workmanship; but don’t
lose heart... .E.A.L.0.: Unattractive H.W.: You
have a sense of humor but you can’t draw. .. .R.R..
Old stuff... .G.P.: You’re in sight of land, but stuck
on a sandbank. .. .D.0.N.: Try some other hobby.
. ...U.T.: No trace of talent in them... .E.T.: No
full page for you... .N.F.R.: Jokes tolerable;
sketches below par... .S.P.: No nibbles for that bait.
. ...1.D.: Both crashed... .It.K.W.: Call off that
elephant... .C.11.F.H.: Work of an untrained and
unsteady hand. .. .E.S.M.G.: A' cheerless pair....
J.K.H.: Not worth resurrecting... .M.E.G.: A forced
pun and a joke in its dotage... . S.I-I.: Like the
drawings less than the gags—and they’re chestnuts.
.... S.D.: Second attempt to illustrate that gag no
better than first, and gag doesn’t improve by
repetition... .L.W.: Mediocre. .. .F.T.: But don’t
you know why that pasty could Ire thrown down
shaft without byeakin’ ? It’s petrified:


ŵ
,
ẁ


The Bulletin
Vol. 51.—N0. 2625.
June 4, 193<L
INTRODUCING OUR NEW 1930 MODEL COALITION.
“Vic. Country party refuses to unite with the Nationalist party, but desires to continue ‘unofficial conversations.’ ” Melbourne Herald.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 21) George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: It)-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2,
Temple Bar 5793.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to anv address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 mon ths, £1 1,5.; 6 months, 12s. 6a.:
3 months, 7s.
To ANT address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.
6 months, 15s. Cd.; S months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: IJoz., Id. United Kingdom: ioz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional !,oz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
Bniish Possessions and U.S.A.: loz. or part thereof.
Id. Vlsewliere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
MED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES . 2 5
THE LITERARY GAME, by Albert Dorririeton 2
CENSORSHIP, by Rev. G, A. Baily . .
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS 5
TIIE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON ’ ’ 7
EDITORIALS ” ' B , 9
IS THERE OVER-PRODUCTION? ’ g
DIFFICULTIES OF SECESSION . . 8
AMY JOHNSON—AND OTHERS 8
EARLE PAGE—THE MAN WHO NEARLY
WRECKED AUSTRALIA 8
SOUTH AUSTRALIA, KEEP YOUR WATCH-
DOG CHAMBER! g
TOLLS ON ROAD TRAFFIC . . 9
A. CARTOON BY SCORFIELD .. "9
POLITICAL POINTS .(with cartooulets by
Frith)
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. . 11 12
SHADOW SHOWS—
A GUIDE TO THE PICTURES 13
Another Welcome to the New
Governor—'
• —A cartoon by Percival .. .. .. 13
PERSONAL (with drawings) . . . . . . 14
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) . . . . 16
AT AN AUSTRAL-AMADIO CONCERT ' . 16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS .. . . 17 18
THIS WEEK’S INVESTMENT TIP .. ’ 17
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE . .. 17
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ 17
COMMONWEALTH WOOL 17
BUSHELL’S 17
ELDER’S TRUSTEES . . . ‘ 18
INVESTMENT QUESTIONS ANSWERED .. 18
ABORIQINALITIES (with drawings) . - '0 21
MAN ON THE LAND . . 99’ 25
WOOLSHED FIXINGS . . . . ’ o 2
METAL WORKING TOOLS . . .. 9 2
FARM QUESTIONS ANSWERED 95
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT 26
SMOKE-OH (with three drawings) .. .28
POVERTY POINT .... 31
THE INKY WAY " 31
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, etc 33
SPORTING (illustrated) .. .. .. 35, 36
WARWICK FARM RACES 35
MOONEE VALLEY RACES 35
INTER-STATE FOOTBALL . . . . 3.-,
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 39
SYDNEY WELCOMES A NEW GOVERNOR. . 39
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE .. 41
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 44
The Serial—
“THE PASSAGE,” by VancQ Palmer.. 42, 43, 45
A Page of George Lambert’s Drawings. 47
A COMPLETE STORY—
“TWELVE-INCH BILL”—
By J. H. M. Abbott .. .. 49, 50
VERSE.—By Clare Thompson, E. J. Brady .. 50
NEXT WEEK.
Among next week’s features will be “Aunty and
Amen,” one of the funniest sporting stories ever
written. It is by John Crisp, a South Australian,
whose fine tale, “Break-o’-Day,” has been secured
by Tub Bulletin for serial publication shortly.
27uTifeitlZeix//t
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 4, 1930.
IS THERE OVER-PRODUCTION?
It is enticingly easy to generalise about
over-production, and never was it more
dangerous than it is now to build policies
upon the generalisations. Yet more of us
than usual are doing it. Especially one
section of Labor men: they allege that over-
production is universal and propose to re-
duce working hours as the remedy.
We strike our first difficulty when we
set out to define over-production. There
always is over-production from somebody’s
point of view. While one boot-manufac-j
hirer is thriving, a neighbor closes down.
The latter cannot sell his product and
complains of over-production. What is
really wrong with him, of course, is that
he cannot produce at a price that will win
him a market. If there was absolute over-
production of shoes everybody would be
well and suitably shod, and there would be
still a surplus. What that manufacturer
thus suffers from is not over-production,
but inability to produce at a low enough
price. For years we have been complaining
of over-production of coal. We have lost
the foreign market for millions of tons of
Newcastle and N.S.W. South Coast pro-
duct not because fuel has been no longer
burned, but because somebody has beaten
us out of that market with cheaper fuel—
oil or something else. It is the same with
a thousand other commodities. In a few
lines there may be absolute over-produc-
tion—more, that is, than the world ca.n pos-
sibly consume. In the vast majority of
cases the so-called over-production really
means that some of it is produced at a
price which is beyond the purchasing power
of possible consumers, who therefore either
do without or turn to a substitute.
Obviously to reduce the hours of labor
and thus diminish the output will not
reduce the cost of production. The move-
ment will be rather the other way, so that
some who found it possible to buy pre-
viously will not now be able to do so. To
that extent the reduction of hours, in-
stead of relieving the situation, aggravates
the trouble. To a limited extent the reduc-
tion of hours would no doubt increase the
number of work-people. But if the work-
people formerly employed get their former
earnings, plainly the entire wages of the
new employees plus cost of supervision, etc.,
is added to the cost of the output, and
that output will be no larger than the old
one—that indeed is the thing aimed at.
So the price of the product must go up;
and, though there will now be more wage-
earners and -spenders, those who were pre-
viously barely able to buy. will no longer
be able to do so, or they must buy more
sparingly. Thus there will be again over-
production, caused by the very thing which
was to end it.
And the further you push this so-called
measure of relief the higher the price will
climb and the more limited will be the
market—unless wages all round are raised.
If the customs tariff is raised high enough
wages can be raised in a very wide range of
industries. But, as the United States is
finding out, they cannot be raised over
the whole range of industries. America is
a tremendous exporter of wheat; and this
product has to go into the world’s market
in competition with the grain of low-wage
and long-hour countries. In desperation
both Canada and the United States have
lately attempted to improve the price by
holding vast quantities of wheat off the
market, with such almost tragic conse-
quences that,in both countries—the U.S.A.
especially—growers are being exhorted to
reduce their grain crops. Yet there are still
millions of hungry mouths in the world;
there are far too many even in Australia.
There is thus no over-production of wheat;
but the cost of production is beyond the
purchasing power of many of the possible
consumers.
While America can afford to push up
the price of everything which the farmer
has to buy, and tell him to grow less wheat
if he cannot find a foreign market to show
him a living, Australia is not so happily
situated. Its foreign debt, for one thing,
stands in the way: it has to export at least
30 millions of something or other every
year before it can pay for even a pound’s
worth of any of that multitude of goods
for which in its backward industrial condi-
tion it is completely dependent upon out-
siders; and included among these goods are
certain of the essential raw materials of
hundreds of Australian manufacturers. So
Australia, since it is driven by its neces-
sities to be an exporter to the world’s mar-
kets, is vitally interested in keeping down
the production costs of those lines it can
export—including wheat. It may, by reduc-
ing hours in other industries and maintain-
ing the tariff and otherwise, raise the cost
of other commodities without doing much
damage to those industries themselves; but
it cannot thus raise prices without raising
the cost of production in those industries
also which must be exporters. And the
farmer of any sort cannot be a low-cost
producer if he has to pay high prices for
all his requirements.
So we must look to something else than
reduction of hours for relief. The thing we
have to aim at is reduction of costs, and
if reduction of hours can do anything at
all for labor it must, as we have seen, be
by increasing costs and prices, not reduc-
ing them. This reduction of costs has
nothing to do necessarily with reduction
of wages. Indeed, high 'wages and low
costs generally go together. It means above
all the elimination of waste; and there is
nothing more wasteful than idleness. It
means the reduction of distribution costs;
and here, too, our national waste is pro-
digious. It means the transfer of thousands
of men now in the public service to pro-
ductive jobs and the consequent reduction
of taxes, which also add enormously to our
cost of production. Our national difficulties
are very great, but we can turn them—are
indeed turning them—into something of
incalculable value to the nation. But there
is not much hope for us until we realise
what our difficulties are and that there are
no easy short-cuts to salvation.
THE DIFFICULTIES OF SECESSION.
The Nationalist Government in Westralia
has taken up a decisive or whole-hog atti-
tude on the matter of secession from the
Commonwealth. What was formerly only
a casual opinion has become a Ministerial
programme. Last week at Perth “a packed
and enthusiastic meeting” was organised,
with Premier Mitchell (Jefferson Davis
Mitchell, to give him his full name) in
the chair, and Ministers and members all
over the shop. Denunciation of Federal
tariff “exactions” was wild and abundant,
for many Westerners have been taught to
believe that they believe in Freetrade even
if they are none too sure on the point.
It is a case of being “agin’ the Govern-
ment,” and they have been taught that
also. The Premier told his enthusiastic
audience that Federation means a need-
less cost of not less than £5,000,000 per
annum, and for a State with a revenue of
less than £10,000.000 that looks a lot. It
also looks as if the account should be
audited. The Navigation Aot is the other
definite grievance. No charge of religious
persecution, or the brutality of an over-
bearing soldiery, or anything of that sort
is laid as was the case with Italy or Greece
in their days of struggle for independence.
The matter is purely financial.
Peaceful separation involves problems
which aren’t present when an oppressed
province breaks away by rude violence.
Three of these may be named for a start. (1)
The Commonwealth has built a long rail-
way in Westralian territory, and the loss
on working it has been as much as £286,000
in a year. The Eastern States have paid
the great bulk of this, but they would
dislike doing so if Westralia was to secede,
railway and all. (2) The Federal grant in aid
of State revenue would naturally cease
when Perth became a foreign capital simi-
lar to Capetown or Delhi. Westralia has
been a very persistent and successful col-
lector of Federal aids, and they have almost
become a regular part of its revenue; but
after separation there would be no help
of this sort unless the British Government
did something. (3) Just now the big State
speaks with two mouths on another matter.
One asks for a Commonwealth bonus of,
roughly, £400,000 a year on Westralia’s
share of the gold output, whiie the other
repudiates the Commonwealth root and
branch. The two mouths can’t well be
navigable at the same time.
Another complicated problem is that the
Federal Treasury has become responsible
for all the State debts, that of Westralia,
apart from its share of the war burden,
being £70,000,000. The creditors will hardly
part with this additional security, having
once got it. Portion of the interest is paid
by the Commonwealth as a grant to the
local Treasuries, but Westralia will be no
longer entitled to a grant if it cuts the con-
nection. For the rest, the Central Autho-
rity trusts to its luck in collecting from its
subjects; but before a revolted daughter
goes out of the front door with her bag
in her hand there is sure to be some ques-
tion of security. The amount involved will
be £3,500,000 per annum, apart from war
interest, and this is much more than
twice the gross value of Westralia’s gold
yield.
The secessionists of the West may be
willing, in a large-hearted way, to leave
these problems to the East; but the East, in
a small-souled way, may object to their be-
ing left. Should secession be once permitted
other States might also resign from the
union without paying their Federal liabili-
ties in advance, and in the end Canberra
and whatever else was left might carry
the ultimate responsibility for a great deal
more than they ever reckoned on.
Whatever the special sufferings of West-
ralia have been, the fact remains that under
the Commonwealth rule it has contrived to
get along with remarkably little State taxa-
tion. In 1927-28 its people would have
been charged £460,000 more by their own
local taxgatherer if they had had to pay
at the average State rate, and £1,060,000
more if they had paid on the same scale
as their neighbor, South Australia. This
blessing shouldn’t be carelessly ignored nor
lightly interfered with. Westralia has been
a record borrower, but its credit might
slump when it was shut out of the Loan
Council and no longer had the Federal
guarantee behind it.
Talk of secession naturally suggests the
subdivision of over-sized States and the
formation of new States. Should West-
ralia separate from the Commonwealth its
own utterly neglected North might natur-
ally secede from Westralia. More than
that, the Federal power might let Perth
go, and yet absolutely refuse to let Roe-
bourne, Derby and Wyndham go, they not
being big enough to decide for themselves.
A precedent may be found in the case of
Jefferson Davis, whose attempt to drag
Virginia out of the Union was spoiled by
the refusal of a considerable part of the
State to be dragged. The 400,000 or so
square miles of Northern Westralia is the
most neglected big area in the Common-
wealth. Though it has a Jong coastline
and a number of harbors it has the popu-
lation of a second-rate town. It has about
100 miles of railway which was built in
Old Testament times, while the south-west
of the State has over 3850 miles. North
and Central Australia (the old Northern
Territory), under Federal control, have both
received railway extensions of late, with
promises of more, but the upper part of
Westralia has no hope in sight. So if the
family began to break up this part of West-
ralia might prefer to stay with father at
Canberra rather than with stepmother at
Perth, and the choice would probably be
wise.
In view, then, of the enormous difficul-
ties in "the way of secession, it might be
put to Westralia that the time it spends
in trying to win this very doubtful bless-
ing might be spent with infinitely more
profit in trying to secure improvements in
its condition and in its treatment by the
Commonwealth —in the matter of the
Navigation Act, for example.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Miss Johnson and Others.
The Bulletin joins in the chorus of con-
gratulation to Miss Johnson, the first air-
lady who has made a solo flight from Eng-
land to Australia. Nevertheless it regards
much of the fuss made over the adventure
as entirely unhealthy. Prompted by the
penny-hungry newspapers, we have been
behaving as though some entirely new
streak of intrepidity and courage had been
discovered in the British woman. Australia
would not be on the map if that streak
had n,ot been a ,very real thing any time in
the last hundred years.
We are in great danger of losing our
sense of proportion and reserving our ad-
miration and praise altogether for the
highly-colored and spectacular. And that
is another way of saying that we are allow-
ing ourselves to become too much the
creatures of the scare-head press. By all
means lot the Miss Johnsons of the world
have all the credit that is rightly coming
to them for their courage, even though the
purpose of their undertakings be rather
obscure; but let us at least set up as their
equal the tens of thousands of women who
in Australia alone have gone out to build
up homes in the wilderness, cutting them-
selves off from all comforts, suffering pri-
vations alongside which the worst of Miss
Johnson’s were ease and luxury, and sticking
it. month after month, year after year, in
the face of deadly discouragement and
disaster. When now and again we bene-
volently bring a few of these women and
their children to the seaside with shillings
laboriously raked together for the purpose,
let us for a moment think of them as
heroines, too.
And the city has them as well—women
who, left perhaps with the care of half a.
dozen . children, have faced the struggle
with unbeatable courage and have main-
tained it through weary years; not
mothers, some, of them, but daughters who
are doing wonderful things for afflicted
parents and a drove of younger brothers
and sisters, their pluck and endurance
quite unrecognised.
We are by nature hero-worshippers; but
at least we can pick our own heroes and
have as many as we please. So while The
Bulletin flutters its flag with the rest in
honor of Miss Johnson, it begs for a little
more recognition of the hundreds of equally
heroic women in our own land and especi-
ally for a little more sympathy for those
of them who are pioneers too.
The Man Who Nearly Wrecked Australia.
The Australian Country Party Association
has sat in triennial conference. Ex-Treasurer
Earle Page was in charge, and venomously
denounced the protection of Australian
industry. He declared that only he and his
Freetrade friends can save the country.
This is grotesque and characteristic.
The record of Page at the Federal Trea-
sury was remarkable enough to make any
nation which took the trouble to under-
stand its own financial situation decide to
have no further dealings with him. In his
time Customs revenue went up through
excess of imports by £7,000,000 per annum,
and his last years were clouded by deficits
because he had confidently reckoned ‘on
more imports. He reduced the scanty
Federal public works expenditure out oj
revenue from £2,500,000 in the year before
he took office, and £721,000 the first year
he was in office, to £221,000 the year before
he went out of office, because he found
borrowing easier. In 1921-22, th~ —-r- u ~
fore Bruce-Page happened a Ion;
was provided out of taxes for
works in the Postal and Telegraj
ment. During the four years ' <
1927-28, the provision was £874, U 1 X,6± V,
less one half-sovereign, as an annual aver-
age. But Federal loan expenditure in the
same department was £803,000 in 1921-22,
over £5,500,000 in 1925-26 and £3,754,000 in
1927-28. Arrears of construction had accu-
mulated during the war, and the Bruce-
Page method of dealing with them was
peculiarly its own. By June, 1928, the
Federal Post and Telegraph Department
had spent £26,210,694 of borrowed money,
and of this over £23,000,000 had been laid
out under the Bruce-Page regime. But if
ordinary expenditure was saved by charg-
ing works to loans instead of to revenue,
it was spent very successfully in other
ways. In addition to the creation of an
entirely new department described as
“Markets and Migration,” costs in general
had a habit of increasing which almost
compelled admiration.
The Bruce-Page Ministry was in office
when the imports of the Commonwealth
reached their most monstrous total and the
problem of paying for them became acute.
It was in office, but just becoming due to
leave office, when overseas borrowing
reached the disastrous climax. It was in
office when Australia had to go, bareheaded
and wearing the hair shirt of humility, to
the Yankee loan market because its wel-
come in London was worn out. It may be
claimed that it wasn’t wholly responsible,
but it was on the spot and looking
wretchedly helpless, and it had been on the
spot for a long time. The safe thing for
Australia to do is to resolve that Page,
at all events, will never.be there again.
Keep Your Watchdogs.
The new S. Aus. Labor Government pro-
poses, as part of its economy campaign, to
cut down the Assembly to 35 members and


A CASE WHERE THREE’S COMPANY.
“The Labor Government of S. Australia proposes, as a measure of economy, to abolish the Leg. Council.”
L. ASSEMBLY: “What’s that other fellow doing here? Send him away—l’ll look after you!”
THE MAIDEN: “Thank you so much; but I think I’d feel more comfortable if he stayed too.”
abolish the Council altogether. Twenty
years ago the proposal would have seemed
drastic. To-day it seems like inviting dis-
aster.
Neither politicians nor politics have im-
proved during the last few years. We have
created a caste who live by the game;
politics are their one and only calling. And
unfortunately they have found that they
need not spend their own money in getting
or keeping their jobs; it is easier and far
cheaper to corrupt the people with their
own money. Which is why we have had
the public services over-manned, why we
have had tens of millions spent on hopeless
so-called public undertakings whose interest
burden is a millstone round our necks.
We want more protection from these
politicians, not less. It is no use beating
about the bush with regard to them. We
simply do not trust them. If they were
worthy of trust we could not have got into
our present financial embarrassment. Every-
thing has been in our favor. Except during
the iast two or three years and in patches,
the seasons have been exceptionally good.
Prices for almost all our products—certainly
for the most important of- our products—
have been exceptionally high. We have
had fewer unemployed than any other part,
of the British Empire. Yet financially we
are in this deplorable mess. The banks
are not in any degree responsible. But for
their sagacity we should be in an infinitely
worse condition. The blame lies almost
wholly with the politicians, who persisted
in their wrongdoing in the teeth of the
advice of every financial expert of conse-
quence in Australia—persisted in it, in nine
cases out of ten, because they were not
willing to imperil their jobs by refusing
to be generous with the public’s money.
It is quite true that the possession of
two Houses did not prevent this scandal in
South. Australia. But it prevented the
scandal reaching the appalling proportions
it, attained in Queensland. There by the
abolition of the Council and the gerry-
mandering of the Assembly electorates—an
easj ? matter when there was no watchdog
Chamber—one political party was able to
retain office for 14 years; and from
certain of the results a Rojml Commission
has lately been pulling the hem of the
veil.
The Bulletin applauds the desire of the
South Australian Labor Ministers to econo-
mise. But there are worse things than
government which is a little expensive, and
one of them is government which is more
than a little corrupt. And a one-House
Parliament invites corruption.
*
Tolls on Road Traffic.
Last week a new road for speed-merchants
and others was opened between Sydney and
Newcastle, a very costly concrete track
which brings the two chief cities of the
State 50 miles nearer by any practicable
route. Ordinarily when a new and expensive
road is opened to run alongside a railway
line and rob the latter of traffic and make
the public deficit still larger, nothing can
be done about it, because for some reason
that is not as clear as it might be no Gov-
ernment will venture to set up a toll-bar:
tolls are supposed to be antiquated beyond
words and “quite impossible.” However,
Nature was kinder in this case than usual,
and set up a bar or gate of its own at the
Hawkesbury. Vehicle-punts having to be
provided there, the Government fixed
charges nominally for the transportation but
really for the use of the road—charges rang-
ing from a shilling for a motor-car and its
driver, plus fourpence per passenger,' to 40s.
for certain motor-’buses. The noise made
in protest in deafening.
The “S. M. Herald” puts the case for the
Government. This was a very costly road;
the motor taxes were largely supplemented
out of ordinary revenue to make it; wear
and tear will be heavy, and from that point
of view it is especially desirable to dis-
courage heavy swift traffic, like that of
’buses and motor-trucks. And, above all, the
Government must protect the railway
revenue. Is there one motor-user, it asks in-
genuously, who wouldn’t rather pay the toll
and have the road than keep the money in
his pocket and do without the road?
The Bulletin, as already suggested, has
little patience with the cow-like mooing
against tolls in general. They can, it be-
lieves, be so regulated as to be a fair charge
for service rendered. Nevertheless there
is danger in the excuse, always put forward,
that “the railway revenue must be pro-
tected.” If you have a new coat and an
old pair of pants, there isn’t much sense
in dragging the coat through a puddle and
a barbed-wire fence in order to make it
match the pants. And if you have a pair of
horses, one a cripple and the other sound,
there isn’t much sense in staking the sound
horse to make him a cripple too. Our aim
should be to increase the efficiency of the
railways; and the keener the competition
of the roads the greater the railway effi-
ciency should be. If it isn’t, there i& some-
thing very wrong with the service.
Charges direct or indirect for the use of
roads, punts, etc., ought to be made; but
those charges ought not to be made a
burden on industry simply in order to
save the railways from making those
economies which their case demands.
♦
Let the Worker Get What He Earns.
“Kell” : Australia’s biggest handicap to-day
is the disparity between the value of work
done and the money that is paid for labor.
Payment by results has been bitterly
opposed by the majority of trade unions,
and that short-sighted policy will come
home to roost in the next two years. Most
men would rather work than starve, and
the day is not far distant when employers
will receive offers from members of trade
unions willing to fill positions at less than
award rates, for three meals a day are more
important than abstract principles. High
wages never hurt any industry that was
getting value for money, but high wages
and the go-slow policy are a disastrous
combination.
Many reasons are given for the trouble, on
the coalfields, but the basic cause is the big
gap between the value of work done and
the money paid for it. A few days before
the mines closed a colliery manager (Aber-
main) put a straight offer to the miners.
He pointed out that they had only a few
more days' to work and would need, all the
money they could get; and for its part the
management would like as large a quantity
of coal at grass as it was possible to get.
Thus it would suit both parties if the darg
was lifted. (The darg is the name given to
the miners’ restriction that limits the
number of skips any “set” of men may send
out in one shift.) The offer was accepted,
and during those days of unrestricted work
the mine paid an average- of £6 3s. 6d. a
day to every miner underground. The daily
output almost equalled the weekly output
in the darg days. Once again it was proved
that Australian workmen can justify their
receipt of high wages when the great majo-
rity of good men are not compulsorily
slowed down to the pace of the few incom-
petents. An example of another kind is a
colliery (Muswellbrook) now working at
the old rates of pay. With men slightly
less hampered by union restrictions than
was formerly the case, the mine lias paid a
of 12J per cent, and consolidated
its financial position.
When the unions admit that a good
tradesman is more valuable to the com-
munity than a poor one the country will
have gone far towards finding a way out of
the present financial morass.
<+
Another Bluff for Britain.
No European Power has been more an-
noyed than Italy at Britain’s resolve to
hang on to the essential points of its pre-
sent governance of Egypt. Hope in that
direction has been postponed at least, and
so the eye is wandering elsewhere.
Within the last month or two an agita-
tion has grown up within the Duce’s terri-
torv claiming Malta as one of the lands
of which Italy was robbed long ago, and
demanding its recovery. It is true that
Britain, which did more than any other
country to haul Italy out of the mess it
got itself into when the German-Austrian
advance broke through in 19,17, is the bailiff
in possession, according to Italian ideas.
That does not matter. The Italian claim
—thus--far quite unofficial, of course—
is that, racially, and by the tradition of
original possession, Italy is the real land-
lord. It is also claimed that the religious
element is an argument in Italy’s favor.
Leaving the controversial matter o! reli-
gion out —there are many millions of con-
tented British' subjects professing the same
brand of faith as the Maltese—any claim
to prior Italian occupancy or racial affinity
falls dead. The Maltese are a race more Arab
in type than anything else, and they speak
a language which partakes more of all the
Levantine tongues than Italian. As to
prior occupation, history tells that the
island group—always an outpost and little
else—was occupied in turn by Phoenician and
Carthaginian until it became a Roman gar-
rison post. When the Empire fell it was
occupied in turn by the Vandals, the Arabs
and the Normans; and after other changes
Charles V., the Spanish-Austrian, gave it
to the Knights of St. John, who held it
valiantly until Bonaparte captured it for
France in 1798. Two years after that Britain
took it, and has held it ever since.
Not until the lion lies down with the
lamb should it pass out of British hands again
save by force majeure. It is the Mediter-
ranean strong-post of the Suez Canal, and
the heart of Empire communications
through the Mediterranean.
*
How to Stop Industries.
It is moments like these when “the poor
wageplug” may realise that income taxes
are, after all, some concern of his. Mostly
the gentleman on the soapbox tells him not
to worry about what taxes the silvertail
pays—the more the community gets back
from him the better. It sounds all right;
but if Mr. Wageplug were held up on the
way home with his pay envelope and re-
lieved of anything up to 10s. in the £, he
might begin to wonder whether it was worth
while earning the £ and whether he
wouldn’t be better off pottering about, at
home doing a few odd jobs and growing
an occasional cabbage.
And 10s. in the £ isn’t a penny more
than many a man in Australia is being
relieved of at this moment, when the Fed-
eral and State taxes payable by the com-
panies of which he forms part are added to
the State and Federal taxes payable by
himself. A man may carry on an old busi-
ness in spite of increasing taxation; but he
will think and think again before he will
risk his capital to establish a new business.
The dice are loaded too heavily against
him. If he loses, the loss is wholly his; if
he wins, only half the profit is his.
At this moment there are 4000 coalmine
workers too many in the N. S. Wales
northern field—will be 4000 too many, that
is, when the mines are reopened. The
Federal Government proposes to put up
£IOO,OOO to relieve the field of this surplus
labor. If the position were not so horribly
serious a proposition to permanently settle
4000 men in other parts of the Common-
wealth at £25 a head would sound like a
bad joke; and it is a bad joke when the
money is raised by income taxes, which are
the greatest brake upon industry for which
Australian Governments are to-day respon-
sible.


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers’
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
DO YOU WANT TO ENTER A PROFESSION?
w
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and
enter a profession where there is a certainty of employment are advised to
send for our prospectus. Here is one profession where the supply is not equal
to the demand. NOW is the time to begin.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
THE HIGH COST OF LIVING
is a serious matter and difficult to solve.
BUT
THE HIGH COST OF ASSURANCE
• has been solved.
DOMINION FORESTS Bond Assurance
cuts premiums in two and also gives you a planted freehold
acre Write the Role Brokers:
PACIFIC UNDERWRITERS,
26 O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY.
c9a
7hp centre of Queens /onc/s
' ct/ sf/ngu/shec/ Soc/o/ Life.
motel
<-0 RDIW
BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Lines.
—\N\
POLITICAL
POINTS
Federal Labor members Keane and Jones
declared for a gold bonus at a mining
revival conference in Vic. Now the inter-
state Labor delegates have approved of it;
and among them were the Prime Minister,
Postmaster-General Lyons, three M.’sH.R.
(Yates, Lacey and Culley), a Senator
(O’Halloran), and State Labor leaders Col-
lier (W.A.), Forgan Smith (Q.) and
Ogilvie (Tas.). This ought to mean that
the necessary legislation will be introduced
immediately; certainly the Prime Minister
shouldn’t go abroad till he sees this job
through. Gold has saved Australia before,
and may do it again.
One-fourth of Hughes’s “Australian party”
has deserted in a body. The body’s name is
Maxwell, M.H.R.
One explanation of the Separatist ten-
dency in Westralia is that the little section
of the big State which counts is, in a sense,
an island. North and east of it is a vast belt
of unoccupied territory; south and west is
the sea. The empty north of Westralia is
joined on by nature in a sort of a way to
the rest of the continent, but the south-west
isn’t. Hence an isolated feeling.
There is very, little bitterness in M.L.
politics and practically no personal animus.
When Ward resigned the Premiership, he
telegraphed his decision to Reform-leader
Coates, who replied with a cordial _ expres-
sion of regret at the cause of the retirement.
Labor-leader Holland in a speech that even-
ing delivered a regular panegyric on the
veteran Liberal.
The first part of Vic.’s Parliamentary
session lasted two months; its achievements
were the measures (super-tax on incomes
Mr. Hughes complains that the public is't taking enough notice of his Australian party Well, if the public gets a little tired of Mr. Hughes as Mr. Hughes, why
not assist nature with a few disguises-beginning with his cowboy act and working up to his famous impersonstion of Sir Henry Parkes?
nnd qtanin dutv on wages) designed to raise
£750,000 for unemployment, and the Tote
Bill ’ The Uppish House rained heavy blows
on the Farmers’ Debts Belief (Partial
Moratorium) Bill but did not knock it out
altogether. If the Hogans are not discour-
aged it will be further debated when Par-
liament resumes on a date to be fixed, prob-
ably July 23. Meanwhile Hogan is busy
arguing with the Trades Hallers who want
his head.
Bob Boss had bad luck the other day.
The report of li'is plea at the inter-State
Labor conference for the socialisation of
industry appeared on the same day as the
report of the failure of the new Ha*wkes-
bury ferry service to connect Sydney and
Newcastle. No sooner had the first big
vehicle for this newest socialistic job been
put to work than it was found that it took
a quarter-hour to cross the stream and any-
thing up to half an hour to coax the vessel
into the dock. So the newest socialistic
service was suspended while the interest,
etc., went on mounting merrily.
The Senate threw out the three Gonstitu-
tion Amendment Bills; but the Scullidores
had already put their hands up and feebly
announced that there would be no referen-
dum this year. It wasn’t so hasty a sur-
render as the one on soldier preference, but
it was a ludicrous ending to the Govern-
ment’s passionate speeches and fiery threats
to the Senate; and angry Laborites are
saying that the Ministers who are going to
Europe thought more of their trips than of
their policy. The Prime Minister went
through the form of putting his proposals
before the inter-State Labor Conference
and having them endorsed, and the story
now is that the Government will go to the
country on them in 1931; but it seems much
more likely that the Government will squib
it again.
Ex-Treasurer Page recently issued a tale
about a* Shepparton (Vic.) fruit cannery
which once bought some Australian mach-
inery and found it horrible. Then it imported
some American machinery and all was well.
A prompt reply came that the Shepparton
cannery was originally equipped throughout
with Yankee apparatus, that the machine
which the ex-Treasurer specially denounced
was Yankee and not Australian, and that
the Yankee box of tricks came in free of
duty then, though that wouldn’t happen now.
The bogus Australian is a great deal too
numerous in the land which has the misfor-
tune to give him birth.
Chiefly to please the dissatisfied A.W.U.,
the Scullidores have brought in an Arbitra-
tion Act Amendment Bill, designed to “pro-
mote goodwill in industry.” It is a pious
aspiration, but goodwill is not going to be
promoted by telling union executives that,
if they don't get what they want from a
conciliation commissioner (it is proposed to
appoint a flock of these), a Judge or a bevy
of Judges, they have a right to call their
men out. And the law is. not preserved
from contempt by enactments that divest
tribunals, courts and Judges, and, in the
last resort, the State, of authority, as Frank
Brennan’s measure proposes to do. .Con-
ciliation is a good method of settling dis-
putes only so long as there is a final autho- ■
rity to be reckoned with, and if Brennan
has his way there will be none.
The loss of a Labor seat to a Protectionist in
Fulham (Eng.) was followed by a bad bump
for the Freetrade parties in Nottingham
Central. The Baldwinite polled 400 more
votes than at the general election; Labor
lost 4650 and the Liberals 4090. Notting-
ham, with its huge lace-making industry in
danger of extinction by cheap Continental
and Asiatic competition, realises that only
Protection can save it.
Bailway Commissioner Cleary, a strenuous
ai an with ideals, has expressed a desire to
se t N.S.W. country towns on the upward
pa th, but it is a difficult business. Where
the average farm is 20 acres or less, country
towns are kept alive (or only moderately
dead) by the farmer drinking in his spare
time and the farmeress doing a trifle of
shopping. If there is one farmer to the
square mile they aren't numerous enough
to make a fuss. In the. lack of
small-town factory industries it is hard
to prevent the rural centre going to sleep,
Still, factories may become more common in
time. Secondary industry is always hopeful
Premier Hogan has refused to receive a
Gold Tea deputation in a public hall. Queen
Victoria objected to Gladstone addressing
her as if she were a public meeting;
Hogan objects to a public meeting address-
ing him. Tommy Bent, one of Hogan’s
predecessors, didn’t mind it a bit. When the
Lands Department board-room was not big
enough for Cold Tea and Bung respectively
to show off their followers, he took each
in turn to the Exhibition. As he was a
trustee of that building he did not bother
to a«sk for leave.
Though many Labor members wish they’d
never heard of a compulsory wheat pool and
believe Parker Moloney sold them a pup, a
few of the well-disciplined ones continue to
talk about “orderly marketing.” The Bulle-
tin has lately observed a great deal of dis-
orderly marketing in connection with the
newspapers of Sydney. It therefore proposes
that the daily harvest of all the printing
presses in Sydney should be pooled and the
marketing handed over to a board. The
“Labor Daily” will no doubt realise what
a beautiful thing “orderly marketing” is
when it observes the composition of the
board —appointed by, say, the Bavin Govern-
ment.
People who blame the wage-earner for
striking are apt to forget that he is often
in a cleft stick. Ilobart wharf lumpers have
been fined £1 16s. 9d. each for a breach of
their award —-they refused to transfer from
one job to another, as the law provides.
Their defence, though it didn’t go down with
the magistrate, was that if they had done
as they were bidden their union would have
fined them £3 a head. Anyone in touch with
political unionism will realise that it is less
risky to take orders from a union boss than
from any beak. Complying with a command
to strike may cost a man his job for years,
as hundreds of poor devils have found on
the Melbourne and Adelaide wharves; to be
declared “black” for not striking is to lose
the job for life.
Federal Reps, and N.S.W. Assemblymen
have a mania for bombarding Ministers with
questions for self-advertising purposes. Nine
times out of ten the facts demanded have
been printed already, but bored officers have
to dig them up again, the old stuff being
then spread over “Hansard” to the tune of
hundreds of pages in a session. The only
exception made is when the questions bear
on Ministerial policy yet to be disclosed, and
an extension of the formula then employed
would put an end to a costly nuisance. The
formula should run: “The information asked
for has been published in the Commonwealth
Year-Book or the Auditor-General’s report
(as the case may be), of which the hon.
member has been furnished with a copy.”
... .
Speaking on his arbitration bill, Attorney--
General Brennan mentioned that the ongi-
nal Act had been amended 12 times. A Min-
isterialist pointed out that the twelfth
amendment had been fatal to the Bruce-1 age
Government; the Opposition rejoined that
no luck could come of a. thirteenth amend-
ment introduced on a Friday. The original
Act was No. 13 of 1904. It was drafted in
1903 (13 added together, the same as 1900,
which is 1903 transposed), and was the
means of wrecking two Ministries, Deakm’s
and Watson’s.
The latest official estimate is that the popu-
lation of Australia and Tasmania increased
by 88,083 during 1929, there being a gain of
141,563 in the capital cities and a loss of
53,480 outside. It is possible that a census
which provides positive figures and not mere
estimates, however reliable these may be as
estimates would give the world a better
opinion of Australia. That 1S 0,1 . c. lea^< j )IL
why the bcullms shouldn't proclaim the
alleged deadbrokeness of the Common-
wealth on the housetops by declaring that
it can’t afford the tegular enumeration next
year. Other signs that the nation s pants
have begun to go may be soon forgotten, but
that gap in the globe’s statistics will remain.
Even Russia is taking a census next year.
The Scullidore method of meeting the un-
employed problem is to throw as many people
as possible out of useful work by cutting-
down the already scanty defence force and by
similar “savings,” and then to invent road-
making jobs and the like as a compensation.
And it isn’t even certain that the people who
are put in will be more trustworthy politi-
cal supporter’s than those who were put out.
Owing to dissatisfaction with the verdicts
of the Commonwealth Film Censorship
Appeal Board, the Vic. Government proposes
to ignore that body and appoint an officer of
its own to review the decisions of the Fedy
eral Board of Censors. A wild rush of
applicants for the job, which is commonly
regarded as a very exciting one, was stopped
by the announcement that Prof. Osborne will
act.
Nairn, the new man from Perth, objecting
to “approximately £50,000” being spent on
another 5| miles of speedway at ’Berra, got
a neat one home on the N.S.W. members.
“They take every opportunity of talking
about this magnificent site and climate,” lie
said; “but they bolt for the railway
station every Friday afternoon to get away
from the place.” In short, as Phil May’s
Scotchman said about Glasgae: “Eli, mon,
’tis a fine city—there’s such' faceelities for
leaving it.”
Queensland returned soldiers have taken up
the case of two half-castes who have been
transferred to the Palm Islands abo. settle-
ment after serving short sentences for petty
misdemeanors • they were in the A.I.F.
It is doubtful whether half-castes of any
description should be herded with the pure-
blooded abo. Most of them have far more
of the white man in them than the black.
Not a few are of considerable mental capa-
city and good character, as Queensland and
Westralian records show.
To give him his due, N.S.W. Labor-leader
Lang is not such a blockhead as his deputy,
Baddeley, That deplorable ass, his chief be-
ing absent, c to leave being granted
to bring in the juo- _ of Unemployment B
on the ground that the Government oug
appoint a commission to take evidence ana
tben borrow “the money available abroad for
urgent public works.” Lang had sense enough
£ 0 gee that this drivelling idiocy w< •
so he supported the second reading
saying that “the principle of applyi
taxation to relieve unemployment
-which this party approves,” thoug
on to drag in'his familiar tliuiw, u UUUI .
gecrek meetings of employers, favoritism to
companies (whose shareholders are already
paying* up to 3s. 3d. in the £ in State tax
a i onc ) an <j Bavin and Stevens being fair
cows. He was on firmer ground in protest-
ing that the special impost would fall harshly
on family men of moderate means. These are
to be taxed on wbat they pay to doctors
life-assurance concerns and the like; and it
is monstrously unfair.
The Labor pa*rty won’t forgive Arthur
Griffith for his sin against it in the Great
Waj% but it was quickly on the mat praying
le forgiveness of the Government for those
wb had sinned against the community in
the coal war The Labor party ought to
be tbe mos t human, actually it is the
j^ 0 j OC h 0 f all parties.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“J.D.” : Two days out from Adelaide on
R.M.S. Pinchgut, Bloggs began celebrating
his birthday. The wine flowed freely until
midnight, when we carried him to his bunk.
Next morning Bloggs stoutly denied that he
had been blotto. “I ’member ev’ry—hie—
thing,” he .said. “eV—hie—-rything—’cep this.
Who paid for taxi shbrought us ’ome?”
THE ART MARKET
“Sold anything lately?”
“Yes —my overcoat!”
“Tos” : I sent 50 cents to Boston, U.S.A.,
for an illustrated catalogue of “the cele-
brated Copley Prints.” The catalogue
arrived, and this is how it was addressed: —
Mr. Y. Z.,
Deference Department,
Melbourne,
Australia.
Well, perhaps, the Scullidores are turning
it into a “Deference” Department.
❖ ❖ ❖ #
“Pay”: A naval squadron from the Dutch
Indies is to visit Australia this year; it
will leave Java in September and come
down the Westralian coast, rounding the
Leeuwin to make for Sydney and M.L. The
Hollanders have been good friends to Aus-
tralian and British aviators during the past
few years, and a return of courtesies is
about due. Their squadron promises nothing-
very formidable in the way of modern war-
craft ; but if they brought the lot it wouldn’t
make a bad showing alongside the fleet that
the Scullidores are so busy laying up when
they aren’t imploring Bull to take some
of it off their hands. Nosing about Java and
Sumatra there are two 7000-ton cruisers
built towards the end of the Great War;
16 destroyers, 13 submarines, with their
depot ships, and 12 minelayers, besides gun-
boats, torpedo-boats and coast-defence craft.
*
“Parvian” : There are few things harder to
sell than real estate these times, and a land-
shark friend of mine rubbed his hands when
his Is. 6d. advt. hooked a couple who bore
all the hall-marks of genuine buyers. He
drove them miles in his car, bought them
cigarettes and afternoon-tea, and generally
looked after them with genuine solicitude.
There was only one house that interested
them, and finally they said they would buy.
The agent, driving the purring pair back
to his office, decided how he would spend his
£35 commission. He could tell by the way
they talked that they meant to have the
place, and he confidently presented the con-
tract for their signature.. Beaming, the
lady took up the pen to sign ; then her mouth
opened and she turned an accusing eye on
Mr. Shark. “Why didn’t you tell me it was
number 13?” she asked severely. “I wouldn’t
dream of living in it now.” And she didn't.
“Wang”: The Johnny-looking chap was
mooning about the wharf obviously looking-
for something or somebody. He approached
a brawny lumper engaged in helping to load
cargo on a steamer. “My deah chap,” lie
said, “can you tell me wheah I can find
the generalissimo about heah?” The son
of toil scratched his head with a bale
hook. “How many funnels has she got?”
lie demanded.
“Brass Addler” : Jason, the name of Miss
Johnson's ’plane, celebrates not only the
argonaut who got away with the golden
fleece, but a useful, if humble, article of
commerce. Going into my favorite fish-
monger’s, I caught sight of some attractive
kippers done up in glazed paper envelopes
bearing a large red seal with the word
“Jason” thereon. “Y’oughter try these,”
the lad behind the counter said; “Amy's ole
man makes ’em.” Then I remembered that
Johnson perc is a kipper king whose product
is several jumps ahead of the British drum-
beat round the world.
“C.Q.” : A recent addition to Melbourne’s
ecclesiastical architecture is the synagogue
on St. Kilda-road. The massive edifice is
surmounted by a golden dome, is severely
Roman in outside appearance, and cost
£45,000/ It is circular in shape and is so
nakedly white and well-lit within as to sug-
gest an operating theatre rather than what
the Gothic tradition has taught the Gentile
to regard as a religious atmosphere. This
was emphasised on the opening day by the
crowd that packed the fane, all wearing hats.
Officials were posted on the stairs to instruct
those ignorant of Jewish law who had
removed their headgear to restore it. A hat
not being one of my possessions, I was non-
plussed until a kindly soul explained that a
handkerchief draped over my head would
fulfil all requirements. In a top-liat and
with a prayer shawl across his shoulders,
John Monasli opened the Ark and placed the
Scrolls of the Law inside, and W. Goldman,
president of the Melbourne Junior Hebrew
Society, lit the Perpetual Light, transferred
from the synagogue in Bourke-street, where
it had burned since 1858. *
sjc
“C.Q.” : A powerful subsidiary broadcast-
ing station is to be built probably about 30
miles from Albury. This aims at overcom-
ing the blind spots
where fading occurs
due to the curious
skipping habit of
the radio wave.
Places up to 85
miles from Mel-
bourne get 3LO well
enough ; thence on
to 300 miles the re-
ception is bad to
rotten. Beyond 300
miles it becomes
quite good again, so
that listeners at
Bourke can some-
times hear Camp-
oven ’s Gaslight
sonata a dashed
sight better than
Bairnsdale can. The
reason is that there
are two waves, a
ground wave and
one that surges into
the empyrean until
it hits Heaviside’s
layer, the world’s
theoretical ceiling.
The ground wave
serves near-by
places and is apt to
be dissipated by
mineral bearing
Hills, tall mountains
and other obstruc-
tions ; the sky wave
is immune from
these influences.
The same phenome-
non is manifest at
Canberra, where
Melbourne is fre-
quently received far
hotter than is Sydney.
“Lone-Piner”: Returned soldiers still
react to war experiences. One memorable
day I was among those on the firesteps of a
front-line trench in Prance when a German
aeroplane came racing over at a low alti-
tude. It so startled some of us that we
jumped to the trench floor and tried to force
our bodies into the earth. About 13 years
later —yesterday, in fact —I visited the aero-
drome on Coode Island, Melbourne. While
awaiting the arrival of the mail ’plane I
took a book from my pocket and sat on the
embankment to the north of the landing-
ground. Some time later I looked up to
see an aeroplane just above my head. To
escape being riddled by bullets or wiped out
by a bomb I hurled myself to the bottom
of the embankment and pressed my body
into the earth. And many seconds passed
before I realised that I was not in a front-
line trench and that the aeroplane was not
a Fritz bent on my destruction, hut the
mail ’plane, the pilot of which had shut off
his engine and was volplaning to the land-
ing-ground. Fortunately, there was only one
spectator of the incident, but his interest
in me was sufficiently embarrassing to make
me hurry away.
* * # *
“Penfield”: The Bulletin's sermon on
arbitration and how to get awards observed
recalls the day far back in last century
when I interviewed Way Lee, then a well-
known Chinese-Australian merchant. Lee
had returned from his homeland to find
Australia greatly interested in arbitration,
which had just become a live question. “Did
you find strikes in China, too?'' I asked.
“Plenty,” replied the old man—“in the rice
mills especially.” “And do you do any-
thing about it?” I asked. “Oh yes, we settle
them.” he answered definitely. “Ah,” 1
said to myself—“here’s Asia showing us the
way again.” Then to Lee: “And what is
SHE’D HEARD THAT ONE BEFORE.
"But, my dear madam—this awful financial depression”-
“Ho! So somebody's been telling you about that, have they?”
the procedure?” “Oh,” he said, “we send
what you’d call a magistrate along, who
inquires and then says ‘lt shall be so-and-
so.’ ” But that only landed us back into
the old difficulty. So “Yes, yes,” I said-
“but suppose one or the other party won’t
obey the magistrate, what then?” “Won’t
obey the magistrate!” exclaimed old Way
Lee incredulously, “Why, then” —and with a
“z-z-z” and a final “click” he drew his finger
across his throat. “Plenty men in China,”
he added to explain why a few throats
didn’t matter.
* * * ❖
“Gamma?: Into our ward at Rgndwick
Hospital came a bent and withered old man.
He sat down quietly in a corner, and we
wondered who he could be. Sister enlight-
ened us: he was a Digger, too. He had
served in France in the same regiment as
his son and grandson, and was visiting Rand-
wick to have some teeth drawn.
$ ❖
“Chev.” : At a recent Air Force gymkhana
at Point Cook (Yic.) several parachute
descents were made, and there were mur-
murs of disappointment 'when it was per-
ceived that the objects suspended from the
drifting wisps of gossamer were dummies.
Some of the crowd would have asked for
their money back if they had paid any. The
reason why the R.A.A.F. didn’t use human
beings in the demonstration was supplied a
few days later when a wing collapsed on
a powerful Bristol Bulldog engaged in
one of those astounding perpendicular
manoeuvres which have astonished everybody
who has seen them. Regulations provide
that every man shall carry a parachute
strapped to him, and the pilot made a beauti-
ful landing. But such achievements art'
rare, so rare that a hirdman who descends
safely in a parachute from an abandoned
’plane automatically becomes a member of
the most exclusive club in existence —tint
Caterpillar Club. Ground practice is given
in parachuting at Point Cook, but nobody
indulges in the pastime in the air unless he
has to do it.
“Tributer” : The classic yarn among Vic-
torian railwayman is the one about the dog-
in the box. A few years ago the mixed train
left Mildura on its long trip to Melbourne,
carrying, amongst other things, a dog con-
signed to Ouyen. The guard was not sure
of his memory, and as a reminder started to
sing—to the tune of “We won’t go home till
morning”—the following lay
There’s a dog in the box for Ouyen,
And past there it won’t be going ;
There’s a dog in the box for Ouyen,
And it must be put out there.
Two railwaymen from wayside stations, who
had been enjoying a week-end in Mildura,
and were taking home gallon-flagons of beer
as souvenirs, joined in the chorus, which they
frequently drank with musical honors. Other
railwaymen joined the train, and a choir of
20 was roaring the refrain as the train
steamed into Ouyen. Urgent shunting duties
called the guard away, causing him to forget
all about the dog. The owner called next
day;' and frenzied telegrams were sent in
vain. What was left of the dog was taken
out of the box in Gippslaud three weeks
later.
Hs ❖ ❖ *
“S.T.S.”: The cabled news of Chicago’s
scarcity of stray corpses, due, it is supposed,
to gangsters burning their victims after
killing them, moved the Holy City to mirth.
A suburb of Port Adelaide has just changed
its name from Chicago to Kilburn.
* * * *
“Sarmajor” : I’m another who might have
faced a firing party if I’d been in the B.E.F.
We went back for a spell after a long run
in among the rough stuff, my share of the
spoils being a “soup ticket.” Our new re-
treat was a sequestered village where the
only reminder of the war was the distant
rumble of the evening shoots. On the third
night of our retirement, Jerry dropped a
bomb in the village square, a quarter of a
mile away from where I was sitting in the
front room of a cottage. A week before
I wouldn’t have blinked. This time I woke
up in the cellar. I’d never been ’in that
cellar before and when I found myself there
I didn’t know the way out; I had to go up
two flights of steps and through three rooms
to get back to my starting place. 1
nerve specialists tell me I was unconsci
during the time I was diving undergroun ,
they add that if I hadn’t been lucky enough
to be evacuated sick soon after, 1 u <
cracked up completely next time I was unaci
shell lire, instead of merely now having
disordered nerves.
:l: * *
“Nakh”: The most scientific method of
faking' Old Masters (B. 21/5/30) is, to
take a worthless
painting of the
period selected and
scrape the pigment
off the principal
figures, usually a
Mado n n a and
Child. The paint
is then worked up
with oil, and a
competent artist
uses it to cover up
the background, re-
painting the figures
in imitation of the
Master who is to
tie credited with the
work. When the
Austr a 1 i a n or
American buy e r
comes to inspect
the work he is casu-
ally invited to bring
along the experts.
The experts scrape
a little of the pig-
ment off, selecting,
of course, the un-
important back-
ground, and submit
it to the modern X-
ray and chemical
analysis. As the
stuff they examine
is genuinely four-
teenth century or
so a clean bill of
age is given, and
th e connoisseurs
hurry off with
their treasure, delighted.
“Darken” : To the deludedly loyal issue of
our loins we must be incomparable beings.
Crossing Sydney Harbor the other day my
young hopeful was convinced that Brad-
field’s bridge, the span of which has not
yet met, must be broken. “My daddy’ll fix
it,” lie assured the neighboring ferry-passen-
gers comfortingly.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: The Poet Laureate’s emolu-
ments are not extensive nowadays. Bridges
drew a salary of £7O a year, with an allow-
ance of £27 in lieu of the butt of sack which
was expected to supply inspiration to earlier
holders of the title. There is really some
variance as to what the wine was; it has
also been referred to as canary (and Bon
Gaultier writes of it as sherry), but per-
haps there was no great difference. If £27
was deemed a fair equivalent for a butt
(12(5 gallons), the stimulant must have been
THE NASTY ”IF.”
CHARLIE (always cheerful) : “Going into the
city trying to make money’s an awful
waste of time, don’t you think?”
FRUDENCE (always practical) : “Awful!"
That’s, of course, if you’re clever
enough to stay home and inherit it.”
valued at less than a shilling a bottle when
the change was made, which seems little
enough. The butt disappeared from the
paysheet in the regime of either Southey
or Wordsworth, neither of whom measured
up to old poetic traditions in the matter of
passing the bottle. Tennyson could probably
have found a use for the butt if it had been
port, but it is difficult to imagine Will
Waterproof (or his creator) drinking sherry
at a bob a pint.
THE GIRL IN THE TRAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What do you say to the six-o'clock girl
As she powders her nose on the tram?
To Prue, peradventure, or possibly Pearl.
Who is certainly worth a salaam !
Workaday girls going home on their pat,
Bewildering blondes in a bachelor flat,
Who lunch in a whirl with a shop-walking
earl,
And sup on tomatoes and ham !
Pale little, frail little roses-of-June,
Primly and slimly arow,
'Neath the cynical stare of an Edison moon
And the sky-signs of Somoone-and-Co.
What do you say to them, Peter and Paul,
You seedsmen and salesmen and supermen all,
Whose lips have the croon of a far-away
tune
That the ripples are whispering low?
Do you murmur you love her because she
is fair
As a misty miu-morning in spring?
Or that little lost flames are enchanting her
hair
Like (lie flash of a regent-bird’s wing?
Do you tell her she’s faith arid fulfilment
beside,
The love that is living, the love that has
died,
And the rapture that’s there when the spirit
lies bare
To the rush of the stars as they sing?
Say, what do you say to the six-o’clock miss.
As she fumbles for powder and puff?
Well, I’ll hazard it's “ ’Night, kid,” or “How
is it, Sis?”
And nix on the old-fashioned stuff.
Yet I think perhaps later (the moon will
condone)
The out-of-date ways will come into their
own,
For it all comes to this: A kiss still is a
kiss....
And I fancy I’ve footled enough.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


“Aileron”.: New York has jumped in with
the first aerial police. One section patrols
the air above the gity to make sure that no
Pilot comes below the minimum height of
2000 feet; it chases offenders until it can
pick up the identification numbers, being
armed with machine-guns to discourage
attempts to bolt. Another section in amphi-
bians patrols th<> waterways, pulling up
motor vessels supposed to be laden with
bootleg. This lot stops suspects with gunfire
if necessary, and lands on the water and
makes the arrest.
* * * *
“P.P.”: Sydney Hospital had to make
special arrangements for a recent patient,
Lee Peng Shan, known in sidesliow-land as
“the Chinese Giant.” Lee measures Sft. 2in„
and a lot of him hung over when they tried
to deposit him on the institution’s largest
bed. The problem was solved by dragging-
up a table on which he could stretch out
his long limbs. The huge Chinaman was
admitted to Australia on a license, which
expired while he was in hospital; but lie
undertook to return to China as soon as he
was able to travel.
“Jake B.”: A distinguished English Judge
has decided, in effect, that a man’s duty
to his neighbor’s wife ends when he refrains
from coveting her. A company director
received a letter containing allegations of
adulterous conduct against one of the con-
cern's branch managers. Without seeking
corroboration, lie showed the letter to the
OH THESE HUSBANDS!
DISILLUSIONED Daisy: ‘‘Oh, husbands are worms!”
HOPEFUL HETTY : "D'you mean they turn, darling?”
DISILLUSIONED DAISY : “No, I mean they just crawl around, till some chicken picks
them up.”
manager s wife, who started divorce pro-
eeedings on the strength of it. The husband
came back with a libel action against the
director, and, the verdict going.against him,
appealed. Scrutton, L.J., stating the law T ,
said :
There are certain privileged occasions on which
one person may make untrue defamatory statements
Th°v fc r,° t , ’’nr r t , ln . eurring legal ““hpi*
They occur when there is a social or moral duty,
such as would be recognised by English people of
ordinary intelligence and moral principle, to publish
them. I hold that no such duty existed in the
present case, even though the director was some-
thing more than a mere neighbor; and order a
new trial.
The judgment is no doubt based on the age-
old principle that anyone who buys into
more matrimonial trouble than his own
menage provides deserves all the scratches
he gets.
“Sucre”: A N.S.W. District Court Judge
lias said it is impossible for a car-driver to
pull up in less than 30 yards. By a series of
tests in my own caravan, I have proved his
Honor wrong. Travelling at 10 miles per
hour, I brought the car to a standstill in
10 feet; at 20 m.p.h., 36 feet; at 30 m.p.li.,
80 feet. With its mouth wide open, spitting
out 43 m.p.h., the machine was jerked to a
sit-down in 150 feet.
* * *
“Nikko”: I was passing down the suburban
street when I chanced upon a juvenile alter-
cation at an open gate. A youth of six or
thereabout was belaboring another of much
the same age with an ancient wooden spoon.
The victim, dodging with fair success, was
calling down curses upon his adversary: “1
hope you die an’ go to Hell,” was his most
popular malediction. A stout, elderly woman
sauntered out, annexed the possessor of the
spoon, and dealt the other a smart slap on
the ear. “You stop talking about Hell,”
she said. “I dunno wot’s come to you since
you started Sunday-school!”
=!= * *
“Mako” : A dietetic puzzle that has baffled
Maoriland doctors is how the young daughter
of a well-known family keeps alive on bis-
cuits. And not many of them, for the girl
has been known to carry on for months on
one a day. Though fragile in appearance,
.she is apparently quite healthy. After
solemnly considering her case prominent
physicians, have merely remarked that as she
seems to hold her own on the biscuit ration
there is nothing more to be done. Efforts
in childhood to induce the girl to adopt a
more substantial diet nearly ended her
career. -
“C.D.” : I witnessed an odd case of life-
saving under fire. In 1918 a party of us
were detailed to do a hop with the 12th
Battalion at Proyart. We secured an ex-
cellent O.P. forward, established communi-
cation with the battery, and then had time
to deal with minor matters. A pair of legs
protruding from some loose dirt at what had
been the German parados started Toby
Andrews, a good signaller and good fellow,
into action, and soon a German soldier was
out into the light. A piece of blue cloth
indicated another, and lie was dug out.
Further navvying, prompted by a slight earth
tremor, revealed a Fritz pinned beneath a
portion of the timber dug-out. He was re-
leased, searched and placed with his mates as
dead. Some time later there was a shout of
surprise from one of the other sigs., and
we saw the German last unearthed sitting
erect and gazing stupidly at us. Before .
long he had recovered sufficiently to be sent
back alone through our lines.
“Pawang” : The economy spectre is turning
up in all sorts of unexpected places. A
woman anaesthetist in Melbourne, previously
an exceedingly person, told me the other
day that she had not fitted on the cap for
weeks. “People are postponing their opera-
tions until good times return,” she sighed.
* * * *
“Clement R. d’Uppe” : In a vault in the
little burial ground at Hartley Vale
(N.S.W.) two coffins rest on trestles. An
inscription on the superstructure reads:
"George Jarvis. Died September 13, 1867.”
Exactly who and what George Jarvis was
none of the residents can tell. The vault is
easy of access, the protecting railings having
been smashed and the padlock of the iron
door wrenched off. It is one of the shows
of the hamlet, and parties of youths and
flappers have been known to make ghoulish
inspections of the coffins at night. One of
the leaden cases, that containing a female
skeleton, has been ripped open and its con-
tents exposed to view. There is a legend
that the lady was laid to rest adorned in
all her jewels, and that the coffin was broken
open by nocturnal thieves, though it is more
logical to think that the damage was done
when the coffins floated off their pedestals
after the flooding of the vault bv heavy rain.
This, so the old hands say, has been a fre-
mi ’ t
l ll( llc < < (.nil ( nc( .
* * * *
“Wingella”: I give the palm for tough-
, . , ”,
to a Chinese meal. Idle menu corn-
prised boiled rice, eaten with chopsticks
(I had a tablespoon given to me), fried
steak, preserved Chinese eggs' (spicy to the
taste, yet rather fascinating), pickled fish-
roe (about the sal test thing I have ever
tasted) and fried tripe. The tripe was
cut into pieces about 2in. long by lin. thick,
and it and the steak were fried in peanut
oil. The tripe would have made ideal motor-
car tubes—nothing short of gelignite would
have punctured it—and it felt uncommonly
like worms wriggling down my throat. Small
TIT FOR TAT.
“I really believe the only time you women are happy is when you’re in front of a glass."
“And you men when you’re behind one.”
cakes, made of riceflour and fried in peanut
oil, accompanied the meal, and they also
were leathery things. The only drink was
strong China tea served without milk or
sugar. As I had accepted the invitation to
lunch, etiquette compelled me to make an
attempt to eat the food, which was flavored
with Chinese soy, even more salt than the
pickled fish-roe. But for the next week I
felt as if I had dined on bits of tombstones.
■fi :Jc :j: jj-
“lbn el Issar” : Cairo recently saw a rare
and ancient religious ceremony—the prepara-
tion and blessing of
the Myron, or holy
unguent of the
Coptic Church. The
Copts say that the
first Myron was
brought from
Eaypt by St. Mark,
who founded their
church, and that
bn; brew has been
made only 25 times
altogether. T h e
essential ingredient
among many is the
balsam from the
famous tree in the
Matorieh Gardens
at Heliopolis under
which, as the Dig-
gers were assured,
the Virgin rested
after the flight into
Egypt. As the same
Diggers can testify,
the tree refuses
to bloom unless
watered from the
well from which
the Holy Family
drank. For half a
piastre you could
get a sip from the
well —with a chance
of typh o i d or
cholera thrown in.
“Uramao”: As often as not the motorist
who had a few drinks before the accident
succeeds with his plea that he was sober
as a Judge a*t the time ; but a Maorilander
who was driven to the police-station by the
J. Hop overdid it. He was so scandalised
at the allegation of insobriety that he offered
to describe the smash in detail on the street
map. The cop led him to a map on the wall,
and with a pencil he indicated the positions
of the cars prior to and at time of impact.
Unfortunately he showed that his car was
hopping off. at Colombo, while the other
car was emerging from the Straits of Sunda,
and the head-on collision took place in the
Indian Ocean, just north of Cocos. lie spent
the night in the “cooler.”
sjs :!-• :!-
“Bad Australian”: The Chileno, who is
mostly a« cross between the Spaniard and the
indomitable Araucanian Indian, is far and
away the best fighting man in South
America, and his patriotism is on a par
with his fighting qualities. But on Inde-
pendence Day, when he climbs on to a barrel
of “chicha” and cafils on his compatriots to
arise and glorify the deeds of the heroes who
led them out. of the house of bondage, his
enumeration of the aforesaid heroes pans out
about 99 per cent, gringo, such as Cochrane,
O’Higgins, Pratt, Lynch and Mackenna. The
Peruvian also is a great jingo, but is more
addicted to pedestrianism than to feats of
arms. In the war with Chile his army of
Indians, Mestizos, Zambos and what-nots had
a start of about five kilometres, and kept
that distance ahead, though every Chii.
claims that the whole consignment would
have been overtaken if the sons of bachelors
responsible for supplying the army with raw-
hide bluchers and “alpargatas” hadn’t fallen
down on their job. The Bolivian is different,
I was once the guest of honor at a parade
of a section of the bootless, lialf-clad aggre-
gation of scalawags that the citizens of
Drum were pleased to call soldados. At the
conclusion of the parade the macaw in com-
mand called out: “Viva Bolivia! Viva la
Patria!” As nobody seemed interested, he
waved his sword over his head once more,
and yelled, “Senores! Viva la Patria!”
Came a thin, reedy voice from the assembled
multitude“Si, mi coroiiel. Como no?
[Yes, my colonel. Why not?'"
'
lisher’s Fiver”: Doctors get so many
bumps nowadays that one more or less
shouldn’t matter; still, Dame Janet Camp-
bell might have spared them the latest, con-
tfll ,0 , V JT?*
b< . y herself. In the report which she fur-
nisbod to the Commonwealth Covernment
Dame Janot minted out that the maternal
doatb rate had steadily risen from 5.03 per
}*» .«» *o 5-98 to IMS
1 Tasmania), whereas the rate for
;'fhind and Wales during the same period
a i "7°'' K °" c ft al ? ove . 442 and had beau
°" 1 4 (I , ! W 1 °,° m ninc yoars - And sh, ‘
P fi,med tIIIS ruthless paragraph:—
r tb ( ' great majority of confinements in Australia
are conducted by medical practitioners, and com-
paratiyely few women engage midwifery nurses only.
This is contrary to the position in England, where
large numbers of women are attended solely' by
midwives.... There is a great deal to be said for
leaving normal widwifery- to midvvives.
It wouldn’t be so bad if Mrs. Gamp’s suc-
cessor didn’t make a point of carrying a
copy of the Campbell report among her
fixings and showing it to the infant’s father.
The creature has even been known to place
the blessed thing alongside the medico’s bag
or hang it up next to his hat. And the airs
she gives herself while he is attending to the
patient!
* * * *
~ r ,. rn , . . ~ „ ■
still csiste in ScotlaA
iTSS
answpr uio i ia u +i lo bq ;i m estreated and a
warrant [ s usua u y issued for his arrest. In
Scotland not only is the bail estreated; the
fugitive is “put to the horn” if he cannot
be traced on warrant. The public proclama-
tion is made at noon at. the appointed spor
Edinburgh and until t he offender purges
himself b rendition he is outlaw of all
legal privilege of God or man. A case
occurred only the other day.
... ... __
“S.T.S.” : An Adelaide magistrate has de-
cided that to call a constable “a big mug”
without “enough brains to give you a head-
ache” is Most Insulting; and that to add “A
man ought to knock you down” is Threaten-
ing Language. But £2 wiped out both insult
and threat. It is curious, by the way, this
“a man ought”—as a prelude to quite unlaw-
ful stousli —in the tone of a kindly moralist
recognising a duty that is unwelcome and
yet obvious. One often hears it. So far as
1 know, it is purely Australian.
THEN AND NOW.
[F OF THE BULLETIN.]
When they marched us out of Sailly for the
stunt a-i Pozieres,
Though we left good times behind us, still
we did not greatly care ;
For we took things as we found them, and
we left the rest to chance,
When they marched and countermarched us
up and down the land of France.
That the mud was thick and heavy, that the
slush was cold and deep,
That the land was slow in waking from its
long, cold winter sleep—
All such things we let slip by us. with a
Digger’s casual curse,
And a P.S. to a cobber: “Things might be
a damned sight worse.”
Marching through a shattered village,
plodding down a sunken road,
With the comp’ny cookhouse limber sinking
neath its precious load.
Then of life the present moment was the
total and the sum,
And we thought not of the morrow—for
the morrow might not come.
To those nights and days of marching is a
long way, looking back,
And to-day we do our marching on a better
kind of track.
But the courage and the laughter that,
unbidden, came to us
Never seek the gloomy portals of this foolish
world of fuss.
W hen the last long tramp is finished and the
packs ai'e dumped for good,
W’hen the things that have us puzzled are
at long last understood,
Then I doubt if we’ll be wiser than when we
left things to chance
As they marched and countermarched us up
and down the land of France.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


SHADOW SHOWS.
The
STATE
THEATRES
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
The Bulletin introduces another deputation to welcome the new Governor of N.S. Wales and his family and to offer them good wishes.
“PLENTY TUCKER, PLENTY BACCA, PLENTY BLANKET, PLENTY EVERYTHING!”
Pauline Frederick is at the State Theatre,
Melbourne, in “Evidence,” a Warner Bros,
talkie. “Evidence” is a feeble exposition of
the infernal triangle theme and Miss Fi-eder-
ick makes it no more convincing by clinging
pathetically to the old-fashioned methods of
the silent film, relying on a melancholy and
cadaverous woe and hand-wringing and such-
like devices for eking out an ineffectual dia-
logue. Nowhere does she succeed in evoking
sympathy for a virtuous woman wrongly
accused of adultery and robbed of her elie-ild
by a brutal court of justice. The court is
supposed to be English. The Judge wears a
whole sheepskin on his head and after deli-
vering his verdict indulges in a prolonged
argument with Miss Frederick over his
reasons for it. A piquant situation is created
when the lady, in a last effort to keep posses-
sion of her offspring, declares that her hus-
band is not the father. The Judge is then
informed that the co-respondent could
have had nothing to do with it, having been
four years away with his regiment, and
’Sludsliip accepts this as conclusive evidence
that the husband is the only possible pai-ent.
Messi-s. Warner Bros, are not much happier
in suggesting the psychology of the co-res-
pondent, an English officer. Major Pollock
(Lowell Sherman) invites Miss Frederick
by means of a faked telegram purpoi-ting to
come from her husband, Lord Wimborne, to
a. country inn. Here he arranges that they
shall be discovered by Lord Wimborne, the
Majah being under the impression that by
doing so he will win the permanent affections
of the lady. The fact that she rejects his
caveman methods with loathing is about the
most reasonable item in the picture. Later
she is taken back by her husband per medium
of the child, a young aristocrat who has
acquired an American accent —possibly
through being taken to the talkies too early
in life. Miss Fredei-ick is altogether with-
out appeal. Her voice is as unresilient and
angular as her gestures. She is still another
of the pantheon of silent-screen goddesses
whom the talkies have tested and found
wanting.
'“Sally” (First National), at Sydney State,
is familiar to Australian theatre-goers as
a musical comedy. Marilyn Miller—golden-
haired, radiantly cheerful and a star dancer
—is the waitress whom the millionaire with
a song-and-danee complex sees through a
restaurant window, and loves on sight Joe
E. Brown plays the waiter at the- Elm Tree
Inn. who is the Grand Duke Constantin in
disguise. The'
sets are very
elaborate —one
or two absurd-
ly so. A for-
t u n e must
li a v e been
spent on the
p r e posterous
Long Island
garden party
alone. Here
Sally arrives
to take the
place of Nos-
kerova, the
Russian bal-
lerina w h o
has failed
M r s. T e n
Brock, scores
her triumph,
and is identi-
fi e d and
driven out as
an impostor.
The acts at
the Follies,
Marilyn Miller, in “Sally.”
where she subsequently becomes a star and
is reconciled to Blair, have also been put
on regardless of expense. The show is
really one long gorgeous ballet relieved by
a thread of romance, some humor and an
attractive theme-song.
Alexander Gray, who plays Blair the
musical plutocrat, lacks personal charm
and he is no Valentino as regards appear-
ance, but his baritone is resonantly impres-
sive. . Marilyn Miller, on the other hand, is
right in the rococo picture. She has the eye-
holding quality of an expensive jewel, and
she does not know how to be ungraceful.
There is also a warm appeal about her speak-
ing as < well as her singing voice. Joe E.
Brown’s ducal waiter is conventionally far-
cial, but the actor never has. to fight for his
laughs. They come as often as he opens his
ridiculous mouth. Maude Turner Gordon,
as Mrs. Ten Brock, and Nora Lane, as hex-
daughter Mercia, are standardised American
aristocrats, than whom, if the talkies are to
believed, there are none more stilted, over
dressed and vulgarly affected on earth. The
whole entertainment is in technicolor, which
is to say it proceeds behind a rainbow haze
of pinks, blue and mauves, with the mauves
predominating. Some day this process may
create an illusion of life, but the time is not yet.
“The Benson Murder Case" (.Paramount),
at Sydney Capitol, is old stuff as horror-
talkies go. Some of its devices for produc-
ing shudders were in use as much as six
months ago. William Powell is again in
action as the detective Philo Vance, whose
acumen and suave courtesy contrast so strik-
ingly with the boorish asininity of Sergeant
Heath (Eugene Pallette). The sergeant
treats the corpse like a dog as in previous
Vance films, and gets one or two guffaws
by nearly treading on it.
The Wall-street operations of Anthony
Benson (Bichard Tucker) have ruined a
number of his friends. They arrive at his
New Tork office registering desperation, and
are pushed out with the reminder “You
gambled and lost.” Enter Harry Gray (Wil-
liam Boyd). Benson asks Harry to stay
with him in the country, though the latter has
mentioned an inclination to bump off the
broker, and looks ju/it the kind of man to do. it.
Rain, thunder and lightning, aud the eerie
moaning of a gale. A crash without, and
a flashlight of a bogged car containing a
panic-stricken woman. Disturbing knocks
and furtive entrances. A wild-eyed servant
with a handbag on a rain-swept doorstep.
But all it means is that Benson’s friends
are arriving to continue their protests; and
have had bad
luck with the
weather. The
only bona-fide
horror from
first to last is
the murder.
II ar r y and
Vance are
talking in the
hall when a
shot is heard,
and the body
of Benson
rolls down-
stairs. As in
all plays of
the kind, the
most unlikely
member of tin’
house party is
r c s p onsible,
namely, Harry.
He would
seem to have
a cast - iron
alibi, but
Vance knows
Natalie Moorehiead,
appearing in “The Benson,
Murder Case.”
better. The only flaw in a fast-moving pro-
duction is when the detective assembles the
deceased’s guests in the hall and explains to
the murderer at wearisome length for the
audience’s enlightenment how the crime was
committed. The mechanism of the latter
being as involved as a Heath Robinson
drawing, elucidation is only possible with
the help of the assassin. Vance asks helpful
questions and gets damning answers while
a policeman stands in the background with
the handcuffs ready.
William Powell is identically the same in
voice, manner and dress as he has been in a
dozen previous crime pictures—a remark
which also applies to Eugene Pallette. Paul
Lukas breaks new ground as a foreign
gigolo, and the Australian May Beatty is
amusing on soubre'ttish lines as the elderly
sentimentalist who supports him. The
photography and sound registration arc par-
ticularly good.
# * *
“Burning Up"’ (Paramount), also at Mel-
bourne State, is a typical Nat Gould story,
with the dirt track taking the place of the
racecourse. There is the usual nice girl
(Mary Brian) who banks her love on the
usual nice young man (Richard Arlen).
while her father, a magnate of the rising
town of Paxton, puts his money on the young
man’s chances in a motor speed contest. A
gang of crooks, of whom Richard, against
his will, is one, descend on the town and stage
a race between “Suicide” Lou Larrigan (the
hero) and “Bullet” McGhan (the villain).
McGlian is billed to win, but Richard is
racing for the girl, and the race becomes
a duel at 90 m.p.li. between their two roar-
ing vehicles. Apparently “all-you-know”
methods are allowed on American dirt tracks,
and when McGhan deliberately bumps Larri-
gan off the course, the hero merely races
back through the fence and continues the
pursuit of liis rival, while the judges look
on, quiescent. Nothing more amazing in
trick photography has been seen for a long
time than the finish, when “the Bullet”
clouts “the Suicide” with the tail of his car
and both machines roll over each other
acros the tape, the hero’s vehicle winning
by a mudguard. An excellent thriller.
“IPs a Great Life” (M.-G.-M.), the
Regent’s principal gift to Melbourne last
week, is the funniest film seen thereabouts
for many a day. It is a back-stage story,
but the stage isn’t the usual hackneyed prop
of this class of picture. It is the possession
of the Mangelbaum and Weill department
store. In America, apparently, they inculcate
loyalty to the employer as seriously and
painstakingly as national patriotism. The
employees of M. and W. even have a national
anthem, which they sing in community every
day. “We love our dear employer” is one
of its sentiments, and “Remember the cus-
tomer is always right” is another. The
chorus runs:—
“Smile, smile, smile, -
For Mangelbaum and Weill.”
The alternative is to be fired. Another car-
dinal sin is “making a malikery” of the store
song, and two sisters and the composer
are fired for doing so at the annual enter-
tainment. There happens to be an entre-
preneur in the audience, however, who recog-
nises their latent talent, and the girls and
the young man make the inevitable hit on
Broadway; after which the film loses the
interest it possessed when it depicted, with
how much truth can only be guessed, an
aspect of American business life not hitherto
dealt with. As the two irreverent females,
the Duncan Sisters make admirable farce,
and the dialogue of Willard Mack contains
more intelligence and less wisecracking than
usual. Both damsels have the trick of spon-
taneous clowning, which they exploit to the
utmost. A section of the film is in color,
and there are spectacular dances before
elaborate scenery.


SCIENTIFIC INSTRUMENTS
BAROMETER.
Dark Oak Frame, with. 4in. dial. A
very handsonje, plain design, £l/15/-.
for Station or Farm
Made in Great Britain by one of the
oldest manufacturers of high-class
scientific instruments, the articles illus-
trated are essential equipment for the
progressive man on the land.
With their aid an accurate forecast of
weather conditions is available, wnilst
the thermometer faithfully records the
temperature.
Fahrenheit Thermometer, with
brass dial on rosewood mount. The
fluid is red, which ensures accurate
and quick reading. 9]in. long 17/6.
Cheaper foreign makes from 2/6.
w
Fairfax and Roberts, Ltd.,
Scientific Instruments Dept., Ist Floor,
23-25 Hunter Street, Sydney.
DTJREAU OF LITERARY SERVICE.—
' L> Authors’ MS. helpfully criticised and
advised upon. Work introduced to English,
American and Australian Publishers. Fee
2 guineas. Address: Secretary, Room 7,
Floor 11, Kembla Building, Margaret Street,
Sydney. JOHN RUTHERFORD, Principal.
Legal Notice.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA
No. 307 of 1930.
BETWEEN WILLIAM JOHN ELVET LEWIS Plaintiff
And AMELIA DOROTHY LEWIS Defendant.
To AMELIA DOROTHY LEWIS.
Notice is hereby given to Amelia Dorothy Lewis
whose last known address was at Colley Terrace
Glenelg in the State of South Australia that a writ
has been issued in the Supreme Court of South Aus-
tralia in an action in which her husband William
John Elvet Lewis claims an order for divorce on
the ground of her desertion for five years and up-
wards and if Amelia Dorothy Lewis desires to be
heard in opposition to the claim for such order
she must file an appearance in the office of the
Master of the Supreme Court of South Australia
within 30 days of the publication of this advertise-
ment otherwise an order may be made against her
in her absence.
GUN & GUN, Tattersalls Chambers, 14 Grenfell
Street, Adelaide, Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
Legal Notice.
IN THE MATTER OF X-L-ALL BLINDS LIMITED
and IN THE MATTER OF THE COMPANIES
ACTS 1863 to 1913.
NOTICE is hereby given that the Order of The
Supreme Court of Queensland dated the nineteenth
day of May 1930 confirming the reduction of the
capital of the Company from £BOOO to £3815 and
the minute approved by the Court showing with
respect to the capital of the Company as altered
the several particulars required by the above
statutes were registered by the Registrar of Joint
Stock Companies at Rockhampton on the twenty-
third day of May 1930 AND FURTHER take
notice that the said Minute is in the figures and
words following—
“ The Capital of X-L-All Blinds Limited henceforth
is £3875 divided into 3875 shares of £1 each
instead of the original capital of £BOOO divided
into 8000 shares of £1 each At the time of
the registration of this minute the sum of
eighteen shillings has been and is to be deemed
paid up on each of the said shares.”
DATED this Tw'enty-third day of May, '1930.
GRANT .& STUMM, Solicitors for the Company,
Quay Street, Rockhampton.
If any illustration in ‘‘The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the or
PERSONAL
ITEMS
_ N.S.W. Premier Bavin is going into hos-
pital to be operated on again. He and
Lang are shortening one another’s lives by
their mutual hatred, Lang has developed
the technique of exasperating the nervy little
lawyer-politician to such a pitch that it
comes off with the automatic precision of
a champion golfer’s drives. The spectacle
of Lang literally makes Bavin ill. The
spectacle of Bavin has a similar effect on
Lang, but Lang is not so sensitive as Bavin.
George Lambert, A.R.A., painter and
sculptor, died of heart failure at Cobbitty on
Thursday. He was born in Petrograd of
American parents 57 years ago, and came to
Australia as a boy. ITe did some great black-
and-white work for The Bulletin (over
200 of these drawings are catalogued) ; he
excelled as a portrait-painter ; his landscapes,
still-lifes or water-colors would have won
him independent fame, and his memorial to
the Unknown Soldier for Rt. Mary's Cathe-
GEORGE LAMBERT.
dral, Sydney, is a masterpiece. Lambert was
a musician, a born talker, raconteur and
mimic. His love of horses amounted to an
obsession: he was with the Light Horse,
as Australia’s official artist, during the Pales-
tine Campaign. He leaves a widow and two
sons, one of whom is eminent as a sculptor
and the other as a composer, in London.
“D.”: George Lambert was the last man
in Sydney to keep a hack and habitually
wear riding breeches, lie loved horses and
horsemanship, and any story that he told
about himself—and he told many—was likely
to have riding as its -motif. Usually the
yarn represented strangers making "dero-
gatory references to his ziff or bald head,
but being impressed by the skilful way he
handled his mount. A master of repartee,
he could usually silence anyone who chaffed
him aboutf his foible, but I saw him defeated
once. “Dear old George,” mused a friend,
“so like a bushman in town ; so like a towns-
man in the bush.”
R. M. Weldon, the Yic. Taxation Com-
missioner, just back from a trip to London
concerning the wool case before the Privy
Council, will retire shortly. Good fortune
has been his since he was made accountant
to the original closer-settlement branch 20-odd
years ago; he went from job to job—a better
one every time —till he got Taxation. Cheno-
wetli will succeed when Weldon goes out on
superannuation.
Capta<in Ax W. Saunders, who crashed at
T e Awamutu
(M.L.) a n <1
died of his in-
juries, was a not-
able ace with the
Air F orce in
F ranee, and
accounted for at
least 10 enemy
’planes. When
the rumpus was
over and peace
negotiations had
begun, Saunders
was appointed
King’s Courier
and carried dis-
patches between
London and Ber-
lin. He was one
of the first pilots
of the West Aus-
tralian Airways
service and the
pioneer of the
Sydney - Adelaide
service, and then
went to M.L. to
open up a new
line in the flying
business.
Chauvel has
beaten his sword
into a fountain-
pen, or whatever
it is directors
carry he has
been elected to
t lx e National
Bank board.
Fe w of hi s
a c q u aintances
gave him credit
for having a
talent for high
finance, but
JOHN VICARS, the
Sydney woollen manu-
facturer, lately back
from Europe; he is
one of the small com-
mittee advising the
N.S.W. Government
on economic 'prob-
lems.
if the technical knowledge is not there
there are few bankers who excel the con-
queror of Damascus in clear-headedness and
capacity for organisation.
Tom Hunter, who has infuriated flapper-
worshipping papers by telling a London
interviewer that Australian girls are handier
with, a tin-opener than a cooking stove, is a*
solicitor from ILerberton. His great ambi-
tion is the resuscitation of mining in the
Cairns hinterland, and he is trying to interest
British capital in the old Palmer goldfield.
At the same time he is representing N.Q.
at the Empire Chambers of Commerce Con-
gress.
Living and working hard for her daily
bread in Sydney is Mrs. Sophie Rimsky-
Korsakoff, whose husband, a colonel in the
Russian Imperial Army before the Revolu-
tion. was a cousin of the composer. Every-
thing lost at the time of the Red uprising,
the family escaped by the help of the Japan-
ese, then co-operating with the White Army.
After untold hardships came Australia and
the gleam of hope’s wings. But four months
ago the eldest daughter died, and three
weeks ago Mrs. Rimsky-Ivorsakoff lost her
husband. A pathetic story of relentless
tragedy.
The pawnbroker or bookmaker joke is
losing point as far as Melbourne Jewry is
concerned. No local Jew in either of those
occupations will spare himself to place his
sons in some other way of business. Of the
500-odd bookmakers on the Y.R.C. list, less
than two score are Hebrews, and the same
proportion is rapidly being approached in
the Uncle profession. A Bourke-street pawn-
broker has four sons who are doctors. A
McShortodds has one son an oculist and
two others studying science at the Univer-
sity. The fathers of two leading K.C.’s
belonging to the tribe of Abraham were
pawnbrokers. There is no bias against
more lowly callings. One of the officials at
the new synagogue hawks stockings from
door to door.
The only new face on the Opposition side
in the new S. Aus. Parliament is that of
Baden Pattinson, member for Yorke Penin-
sula, and the quickest goer among the
younger generation of the State. At 16 he
began his law studies in the office of Josiah
Symon, K. 0., and two years later was
managing clerk for the (then) Attorney-
General. J. H. Vaughan. At 21 he was
admitted to the Bar, became an LL.B. of
Adelaide Uni., and started practice at Mait-
land, Yorke Peninsula. At 24 he was the
youngest J.P. in the State, at 28 the youngest
mayor and at 30 he is the youngest member
in either House, the only lawyer in the party
and the only man with a University degree
in the Assembly.
T. E. Meek, sec. to the Vic. Treasury, and
F. W. Mabbott, clerk of the Executive Coun-
cil, will retire in a few months, being close
on 65. It is doubtful if another sec. to the
Treasury will be appointed—-duties will pro-
bably be reallotted—but Meek, who is chair-
man of the State Superannuation Board, and
has been a force in smoothing administra-
tion and allaying irritation, will be missed.
C. W. Kinsman, now acting clerk of the
Executive Council and Gazette offlcei*, will
succeed Mabbott.
William Chambers, dead in Adelaide at
80, was a brewer who went back to the pre-
company days. E. T. Smith, W. K. Simms,
Chambers and Blades, Syme and Sison brewed
S.A.’s beer then, and the populace drank
it out of pintpots; six o’clock closing had
not made the bottled business enormous.
McDouall Stuart’s transcontinental expedi-
tion was financed largely by the Chambers
family.
It was reserved for Prof. David to induct
one of his young men, Ernest Clayton
Andrews, as president of the Australasian
Science Congress at Brisbane. Andrews is
really only 12 years younger than his geologi-
cal master, but doesn’t look his age—he is
rising 60. N.S.W. Government Geologist for
the last 10 years, he has given a lot of his
busy life to the Association for the Advance-
ment of Science, of which he was general
sec. for six years. Sydney Uni. claims him
as a son, but Melbourne Uni. gave him the
David Syme prize for scientific research,
and Yale (U.S.A.) named him its Silliman
Lecturer for 1927. His presidential speech,
in which he surveyed the progress of organ-
ised knowledge, brought a glowing compli-
ment from Queensland Governor Goodwin,
himself something of a scientist; “in all my
life,” his Ex. said, “I have never listened
to an address which held me so entranced, so
spellbound.”
A romance of early railway surveying is
recalled by the death of Henri Chiklerhus
Peacock, of Melbourne. A pioneer tobacco-
grower, Peacock settled at Tallangatta, and
when a railway from Mansfield to that centre
was suggested, a proposal 'was advanced that
if anybody could drive a vehicle over the
route Parliament might look kindly on the
notion. Taking the local member with him,
Peacock succeeded in getting a buggy drawn
by draught horses across the trackless
country. The railway was never built,
however, though the demonstration should
have. been good enough for the average
politician. Peacock was 86 at the end.
R. S. Ross, vice-president of the Vic.
A.L.P., led the inter-State Labor Confer-
ence’s attack on the book-banning activi-
ties of the Customs Department. And that
was right, because Bob Ross is easily the
most literary of present-day Labor heads.
Pie learned the printing trade in Queens-
land in the days when William Lane’s
BOB ROSS.
influence was still great, and he has been
running whole-liog socialist papers and
magazines of one sort and another ever since.
Though so downright himself, he is the most
tolerant of men: he is the leader of that
student section within the party which
would rather argue any day with an oppo-
nent than a “comrade,” inquiry and truth
being the two greatest things in his world.
Lord Ashton, who died last week, aged
88, had some odd distinctions. He was the
richest man in England, and one of the
half-dozen richest in the world (the estate
will pay death duties on nearly £40,000,000),
and he was also one of the obscurest. _ Plain
James Williamson before he was raised to
the peerage 35 years ago he act r went
near the House of Lords. He w as self-edu-
cated, spoke in the Lancashire dialect, ai 1
was proud of never having entered a club
or used a motor-car. The title has died
with him, and practically all his wealth,
less taxes, goes to revive the wilting fortunes
of the Peel family. He had two children—-
daughters—and the elder married a grand-
son of the inventor of the “peeler or police-
maWilliam Jethro Brown, dead in Adelaide,
was one of Australia’s profound thinkers.
A Mintaro (S.A.) boy, born in 1868. he
came under the notice of Chief Justice
Way, and justified his patron by achievement.
He ‘took high honors at Cambridge, and was
Law Professor in Hobart at 25; then at
University College, London, the 1. niversity
JETHRO BROWN.
of Wales and Adelaide; meanwhile writing
half a dozen books on law and democracy.
In 1916 Brown became president of the S.
Aus. Industrial Court, , a position in which
he commanded a respect denied to showier
men. Failing health compelled him to resign
in 1927, and pneumonia carried him off last
week.
The Last Post has sounded for Major
George Thomas Sadler, a veteran remem-
bered by thousands of Diggers who were
grounded at Liverpool (N.S.W.) camp.
Born in Stratford-on-Avon, 77 years ago,
Sadler joined the Royal Marine Artillery,
arriving in Australia on 11.M.5. Nelson
in ’7B. He served in the Soudan and in the
war against Cetewayo, and was on the
instructional and administrative staffs of
the Australian Permanent Forces for 40
years, retiring in 1920 with the Meritorious
Service and Long Service Medals. He reared
three soldier sons, the youngest collected
the D.S.U. and M.C. and bar.
“Joolisch”: “D.” might have added Syd-
ney Myer, of Melbourne, and Harry Boan,
of Perth, to his list of Jews who have made
their way to the top in the commercial life
of Australia (B. 7/5/’3O). And though no
Jew has yet gone to England in an inter-
national cricket team, the future holds pos-
sibilities for Marks (N.S.W.) and Levy
(Q.), two colts who have done remarkably
well in inter-State cricket.
A grand old Australian was William J.
Sinclair, one of the pioneers of the Dor-
rigo (N.S.W.), who has gone over the hill
at 85. His father was a British soldier
who served in one of the Kaffir wars; left
a widow, his mother, an Irishwoman, mar-
ried Michael Clogher, a former Connaught
Ranger. The Cloghers took up Bostobrick
station in what was then wild country. On
one occasion young Sinclair and his step-
father came upon a tribe roasting one of
the Clogher bullocks. Clogher left the 12-
year-old boy in a thick clump of oaks and
charged the blacks, two of whom had guns,
with a sword, putting them to flight. While
her husband (who lived to the age of 102)
and son were away in the cedar scrub, or
on the road to Armidale, Mrs. Clogher kept
house alone, relying for a protection on a
rifle (she was a dead shot) and a bulldog;
and, there being no schools, she educated her
boy, who became an omnivorous reader, a
man of fine judgment and good standing.
Sinclair was twice married and the father
of 23 children, four of whom served with
distinction in the Great War —Clarence.
Raymond and Clare were lieutenants, and
Cyril a sergeant. Clare enlisted at the age
of 16 and was an airman in Palestine.
THE TEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“You never loved me; I’m satisfied about that.
Ann is the only woman who really loved me. It’s
a pity she married Harry.” —Letter produced in
divorce case.
The voice that once with sweetness thrilled
Is shortly but a tongue,
And vanishes the charm that filled
Our hearts when we were young.
While love in youthful veins runs hot
For many girls we thirst;
But. somehow from the dazzling lot
We’ always grab the worst.
How is a fond young man to choose
Which girl’s love is the best?
When fresh (but fadeful) charms confuse,
How can he make a test?
’Tis only now my years are old
That I the truth can scan,
Ann’s love for me was more than gold—
She wed another mai)!
N.S.W.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.


OLD TIME TRAVELLERS
Travelling by Stage Coach had many
attendant dangers and delays. The
modern motorist equipped with
Barnet Glass Tyres now fears
neither!
xw
s
f
a
S3E
l
w
i
S
\\
i
>
2F
M
m
fX
Bk
mi m
///
■
mUi
U.
U
L
SB?
£
>
N
t
X
w
. r
SB
59
oo
a
>s-1
s»
n
&i
h
rrrrrr
m)
s
42
I V
r¥V\
SSk
in, \
WW‘
U£>
»*■,
Barnet Glass
Tyres
get you there on schedule
fiG 15 M 30


w
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J A BOYD
J. R. KIRK, Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand).
Total Assets exceed . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Asfjociation and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sue: assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) in the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced nrojjoitionntelv.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
H p mnpN s + Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manasrer.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Maid of the Mountains”
Criterion “Let Us Be Gay”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “The Belle of New York”
New Comedy (com. Saturday) “Lord and Lady Algy”
King's (com. Saturday) .. “The Thing l Called Love”
Hoyt’s Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
Crowds almost as big as an innings by
Bradman listen to the Austral-Amadio con-
certs at Sydney Town Hall, and loudly
enjoy them. It is, though his flute and her
voice are so very much alike, a charmingly
varied show the illustrious pair provide.
Nothing could be more delicate than an Idyll
from Amadio’s flute; nothing more vigorous
than Madame Austral declaiming
“Thou Ocean, thou art an awful sight!”
It needs something more than a mere voice
to get away with an epithet like that. After
all, the ocean is quite a competent mass of
water, and even if the writer of the song
didn’t like water, as some don’t, especially
song-writers, it still seems a bit over the
fence to take up a pen in cold blood and
call the stuff “an awful sight.” That part
of it which washes around Potts Point and
Mosman might justly join the part that
comes in to Woolloomooloo and retort—of
course in a cultured manner—“So’s yer old
man !” The ocean, even if it does look an
awful sight to a disgruntled song-writer,
is at least industrious, at once an example
to Australia and an inspiration to the
Plain English columns. It has never gone on
strike, though a good many have gone on
strike on it. Also, it can float things, which
is more than Australia can do these days.
If the song-writer had said, “Ocean,
thou art an awful white,” or, “Ocean, thou
art an awful height,” it would have been
immediately understood that he was not
writing a song about the sea so much as a
criticism of our leading marine painters. The
least he could have done would have been
to direct his remarks at Neptune or that
ancient mariner’s offsider, Jones. Unfor-
tunately, authentic portraits of these gentle-
men have the defect of non-existence, but
neither of them figures in the best histories
as a beauty, so the uncouth comment might
well have been hurled in their direction.
To call the ocean at large an awful sight
is simply an inexcusable impertinence. In
fact, the song is probably obscene and should
be looked into by the Censor.
He should underline “Thou
Ocean, thou are an awful
sight!” and send it to Mr.
Forde. If that is not objec-
tionable literature, what is it*
AUSTRAL and AMADIO try a duet at Sydney Town Hall.
Well. as Florence Austral does it, it is part
of a song. Moreover, while she is singing it,
you believe it. Contempt, revulsion, horror,
disdain, fear, shrinking, challenge—not only
her voice, her face, her attitude, her tense
hands, her puckered, dented forehead, help
in declaiming, with all that extraordinary
range of feeling, this line of bad verse. It
is a harsh test even for genius to put
bathos into its mouth and command it to
transmute that base metal into the pure
silver of song. Madame Austral succeeds
—but imagine the line as it could be sung!
She succeeds with other awkward material.
There is, for instance, “Alleluia,” that melo-
dious word which the Americans have put
their blight upon. Madame Austral sings
the O’Coimer-Morris version, and the word,
with its grandeur back in it, goes swelling
up and up, filling the hall with a glory of
sound. Memory, thought, every impure asso-
ciation goes out. There is nothing but a
great space alight with music, and you alone,
with it wide above you. It seems like a sing-
ing of stars. Anyway, it is a high experi-
ence. It is to be made aware of music; not
to know the jigsaw framework that mechanic*
drifted into criticism have constructed out
of meccano-sets of rules, but to have the
light of it about you—to be blind, and see;
to be deaf, and hear; to be aware of every-
thing but the all you have forgotten.
It ends, as it always does, in this blas-
phemous tumult of handclapping. The man
with a face like a horseradish gets back to
ogling the pasty woman who is ogling him. The
aesthetic-looking fur coat turns and says, “I
think she sings better in German than in
English, don’t you?” Scores of faces swim
down at you from the galleries. Wave on
wave of huddled forms swell the ocean of
humanity in front and behind y0u....
Swim, wave, ocean! Association of ideas !
Pelmanism! Presto. Eureka:
Tliou Ocean, tliou art an awful sight!
True, brother, true!” you mutter, looking
round. You reach under the seat for your
hat. You put on your moth-eaten overcoat.
You tread on a woman’s silken heel. You
go out into the air, and get on a tram. It is
full of people talking competently about the
singer. Even at this late hour a newsboy
wants you to read some hysterics about that
fine girl Miss Amy Johnson. You think,
going along, of a letter you had from the
bush, about the aerial pageant at JNarrabri:
“I heard one bluff father say cheerfully,
‘See you later.... Have no peace till I take
these up.’ And he and his wife and four
children climbed into the Canberra just as
if they were going down the paddock in
the dray.”
No; that “awful sight” won’t do —not
even for the ocean called humanity. Not
even though a sleepy voice is saying at this
moment, “Don’t forget to put out the gar-
bage-tin. Good-night, dear.”
* ¥ #
Gladys Moncrieff, in “The Maid of the
Mountains” revival at Sydney Majesty’s on
Saturday, was applauded by a great crowd
as if she had just done something big, like
banning a book. The applause fairly shouted
and rolled out of the three floors. Curious
the way an audience senses that it is in
for good time! The show, with the
Moncrieff singing beautifully, Arthur Stigant
continuously funny, Gus Bluett a little less
Gusful than hitherto but still an uproar,
Herbert Browne in voice to match the
Moncrieff’s, was the best thing in the musi-
comedy line the Firm has done for an age.
It sparkled. The
people seemed to
enjoy doing it.
They put ginger
and sting into it;
refused to be any-
thing but buoyant
in spite of the ter-
rific weight of
John Ralston on
the top of it all.
The piece has what
most musicomedies
haven’t—music and
comedy. There is
scarcely any fall-
about and a re-
freshing paucity of
dancing. A jolly
good show.
* *
Backhaus makes
the present writer
feel blasphemous.
One of the world’s
greatest Beethoven
exponents, he de-
voted an entire
evening to the
Master at Me 1-
bourne Town Hall
last week. The
public had been
carefully prepared
for it by being
told that there
was a great
national craving
for Beethoven
and that Backliaus was the man to satisfy
it. The items provided were sonatas Op. 14,
No. 1, Op. 26, the Moonlight, three rondos,
including the Rage over the Lost Pfennig,
and the Appassionata. The first-named are
early productions of the composer’s artistic
and Aesthetic immaturity, and the others,
beautiful in themselves, have been played
so often by other virtuosi that the mind is
apt to stand mechanically to attention dur-
ing their performance as it does to the
National Anthem. It is true that Backhaus
played them magnificently; but how much
more gratifying would it have been to hear
him play equally magnificently something
that no visiting virtuoso ever plays, like Op.
106 or 111, which he played in Berlin, or
one or two of the unheards amongst the 32
sonatas he performed at six concerts in
Vienna. Instead he played the Appassionata
and the Moonlight; also the familiar Wald-
stein and the Lebewolil at other recitals;
and the music of the box-office and the
management’s merry laugh could be heard
behind them. So the writer 'went home
and completed Backhaus’s programme on his
time-payment pianola, and prepared his soul
in patience to await local pianist Edward
Goll’s next evening with Ludwig.
* * *
Last week “Journey’s End.” with nearly
the original cast, had another outing for a
brief season at Melbourne King’s. The chief
feature of the opening evening was the per-
formauce of the gramophone which replaced
an orchestra in the intervals. The instru-
ment or animal was suffering from gas-
poisoning or shell-shock or something, and
refused to work. Its intermittent groans
and screeches
amazed the house
at first, but when
the exhibition was
repeated in the
second interval a
local audience lost
its traditional
politeness and sar-
castically clapped.
The maddened man-
agement hadn’t
even the satisfac-
tion of being able
to blame the Arbi-
tration Court for
the farce.
* *
Jim Gerald,
back in his ele-
phantine suit at
the Tiv., continues
to be the biggest
draw in Melbourne
legit. Added to
the usual amusing
show are three
local adagio dan-
cers, rejoicing in
the name of the
Carlos trio. Not
long since one of
them hawked fruit,
and all of them are
self-trained. The
pretty little 18-
year-old girl and
her cobbers give
the most brilliant
display of gymnas-
tic stepping this
Page has seen for
a long time.
The Firm could easily have muffed the
revival of “The Belle of New York” at Mel-
bourne Royal. They might have checked
composer Kerker’s attempt to write his
music in a symphonic style that is almost
Wagnerian. They might have ca«st Gus
Bluett for the part of lehabod Bronson
instead of placing it in the safe hands of
Leslie Holland, who played it with his usual
intelligence. They might have given the
role of Violet Gray to a girl with a higher
kick than Marie Bremner, who is notably
deficient in this art. though she has the old-
fashioned accomplishment of a voice. That
the Firm didn’t do these things shows that
theatrical managements can resist tempta-
tion and mend their ways, even after a long
career of crime. It is not too much to say
that the audience was staggered at finding
this 30-year-old piece fresher and livelier
than some of the most recent shows. The
present performance is said to be a great
improvement on the Sydney one, owing
largely to the influence of musical-director
William Quintrell. It couldn’t have been
much better, as far as present Showman
can see.
* ¥ *
“A Touch of Silk” has been given thi'ee
renderings by Adelaide Repertory, Betty
Davies attending in person to watch her
sermon against marrying a French wife.
Mimi Mattin, the Rep.’s new discovery, had
the bulk of the work, and met every demand.
Ray Walsh, though a shade on the veteran
side as the husband, backed her powerfully
in his brief appearances. The support was
good all round, especially, perhaps, Muriel
Craigie and Ethelwyn Robin as the two
elder women, and Don Downey as the true
friend who gets knocked out. The drama
seems to need trimming a bit towards the
end —which dragged. It exaggerates the
legal aspect of a fatal fall in a fair fight;
and it ignores the strong chance of a jealous
husband’s refusing to be saved at the price
of his wife’s reputation.
* * H-
At the moment -Sydney has a remarkable
number of shows going, all things considered.
Nellie Bramley is satisfying Grand Opera
House audiences with “An Irish Cinderella,”
a piece with a fair balance of sob and smile.
Miss _ Bramley is turning on a new show
fortnightly; on Saturday the offering will
be “Anno, 100 Per Cent.” Clem Dawe and
Bobby Gordon are cheering up another sec-
tion of legit, supporters at the Royal, with
“Love Lies.” The Westminster Glee
Singers are still a*t. the P-alace. “Let Us Be
Gay” is a bright offering at the Cri. Musi-
comedy continues at the Majesty’s. .Austral
Amadio concerts at the Town Hall,
like getting back to the Dark Ages •agai .
The Palette
The Sedon Galleries’ exhibition of sculp-
ture and paintings by Australian official war
artists and artists who were on service with
the forces overseas has the advantage ot a
foreword by J. S. Macdonald, director ot
Sydney Nat. Gallery. Of the artists he
remarks that generally they made indifferent
soldiers because they were artists. It is
probably nearer the truth that they made per-
fectly good soldiers, while the war left them
just the same sort of artists, good or indiffer-
GLADYS MONCRIEFF, the melodious Mountain Maid, and
GUS BLUETT, as a sort of sea urchin, at Sydney Majesty’s.
ent, as it found them. The notion that an
artist, must pass through some soul-racking
experience like a war before he can express
himself is pure sentiment of the penny novel-
ette variety. The only really soul-racking
experience that leaves an indelible effect on
the true artist occurs when he sits down in
front of nature and discovers that there is
more in her than he has skill or experience
at the moment to put on canvas. The
actual war pictures by the official artists in
this show are mediocre. Any sufficiently
imaginative artist could have done as good
without having smelt powder. An excep-
tion is the late Penleigh Boyd’s “In Action,”
depicting troops advancing over shattered
trenches. There is the breadth of real obser-
vation about it. The same may be said in
a minor key of Geo. .Colville’s “Tramp Un-
loading,” Louis McCubbin’s “The Crater.
Massines,” and Mrs. Traill’s “Armistice
Night, Rouen.” There is some interesting
sculpture. The late Web Gilbert’s “Bomber”
is vigorous, but the “Frieze in bronze
for Ararat War Memorial,” by Wal-
lace Anderson, is as lifeless as it well could
be, and no improvement on the white plaster
buglers which already dot the countryside.
The army on the march looks like a row
of uniforms . hung against a wall. His
‘ Water Carrier, Anzac,” depicting a nug-
gety soldier decorated with real petrol-tins,
is more, vital. W. Leslie Bowles’s “Digger”
is warlike. . His “Henry Lawson” is splen-
didly conceived for its purpose, though it
is not much like the original. The figure
is sticking its chest out nobly, whereas
Henry usually lolled with bent shoulders. It
is to sta*nd in Footscray, which annually
honors the poet with a ceremonial.
. Nat. Gallery, has purchased the least
significant of Penleigh Boyd’s pen drawings,
a sketch of a. dispatcli-rider on a motor-
cycle. Really interesting work by the same
artist hangs alongside it. Perhaps the Gal-
lery, felt it would not be complete without
a picture of a motor-cycle, though half a
dozen commercial artists could have executed
the contract as effectively. The Gallery’s
selections of local work have been getting
worse lately.
The English woodcuts at the Arts and
Crafts, Melbourne, are mainly freakish-:
those that are not freakish are mainlv
undistinguished. There are echoes of
Ililder about Sydney-man Whitney’s pictures
at the Athenaeum, but he shows a freedom
from formulae in some which is unusual with
water-colorists. Also he invents or finds in
nature. a harmony of browns and blues
which is aesthetically pleasing.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
LEATHER
BELTING
THE LEADER SINCE 1858
GOOD BELTING
is an investment in
economy
The finest leather, the best tanning and manufacturing practice, and an
expert knowledge of every industry’s belting requirements go to the making
of Pioneer Leather Belting.
This carefulness, combined with quality materials, gives Pioneer Belting
an amazing reserve of breaking resistance and long life on the hardest
drives.
Save money and eliminate breakdowns with Pioneer Belting. There is a
special Pioneer Belt for every drive.
“PIONEER”
LEATHER BELTING
Guaranteed Weatherproof because Waterproof
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 YORK STREET, Sydney (our only City Address).
ẁ
Have You
Specialised
Too Much?
A s ;s serious business man —you cannot
afford to have your decisions hampered
because of too highly specialised training.
A broad knowledge of business funda-
mentals is absolutely essential to success
in any line.
You can get that knowledge in two ways
—First, by the slow accumulation of
practical experience or—Second, by taking
advantage now of the experience, methods,
ideas and plans worked out by the most
successful men in business over a period
of many years.
The Second is the Alexander Hamilton
Institute way. The booklet ‘'Forging
Ahead in Business” will show you that
way. Write for it.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
Courses controlled in Australia by
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON.
MELBOURNE: 38 Bank House, Bank Place,
410-12 Collins Street.
SYDNEY: 38 Barrack House, 16 Barrack Street.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
This Week’s Investment Tip.
A well-known Melbourne firm of stock-
brokers which used to send out a weekly
letter has stopped it for a while. All it could
do, it said, was to tell its clients that the
position was gloomy and uncertain, and that
the utmost caution' was therefore necessary;
and it was hardly worth while dolefully
repeating this week after week.
Yet it may be worth while repeating it
now and then. It certainly is worth while
repeating it now. During the last fortnight
a very considerable business has been done
on ’Change, and certain stocks have risen
a few pence or more almost every day. These
are just the conditions in which investors of
one typo may be expected to plunge. They
were caught by the slump: they are not
going to be out of the next good thing!
What is the,, position ?
For three months or more we were very
panicky. We did not know when some de-
fault in London would result in something
terrible —we did not know exactly what and
naturally did not fear it less 011 that account.
The weeks passed and nothing happened ; and
that alone was enough to allay panic. But
actually the position has been steadily
improving. Credits in London have been
building up nicely. It is true that this im-
provement is not as good as it looks. Credits
have been building up in London partly
because a good many millions which ordin-
arily we should have had to pay out there
have been put on fixed deposit or otherwise
invested in Australia by overseas shippers
who are willing to wait for their money.
They are all the more willing to do this
because money conditions in London are
exceptionally easy. In ordinary circum-
stances this would mean cheap borrowing.
London is indeed lending freely and at low
rates to most countries except Australia.
From Australia it seems to want further
assurances that the facts of the economic
situation are realised. It is very doubtful
whether they are very widely realised yet.
But some progress is being made. The re-
opening of the northern coalmines on com-
promise terms will count for a good deal in
our favor.
But while this means that our protection
against sudden catastrophe is strengthening,
there is no reason whatever to expect an
early return to old conditions. The coming
season is by no means yet assured. The
metal markets are dead against us. Taxa-
tion is likely to be higher rather than lower.
We are not out of the wood yet. We have
only started right and made some progress.
If we think we can fly off in the old way
at any moment, we may find ourselves in
precisely the same position as we were in
five or six months ago.
So in the matter of his investments the
wise man will still play for safety; and the
less notice he takes of market movements
the better.
Colonial Mutual Life.
Ordinary’ Department.
Ex- Written Added to
Dee., Income. Claims. penses. Off. Funds.
1900.. 400,428 218,526 77,735 67,969 42,198
1905.. 461,663 281,453 101,078 50,000 29,132
1910.. 557,103 333,339 115,976 107,788
1915.. 616,237 318,307 92,326 11,081 194,523
1920.. 880,031 344,660 144,684 4,303 386,384
1921.. 932,177 424,255 160,840 14,340 332,742
1922.. 972,331 446,662 154,156 4,283 367,230
1923.. 210 481.770 164,880 1,817 393,743
1924.. 1.123.881 513,690 196,823 9,723 403,645
1925.. 1.251.689.568,113 226,659 2,047 1 „
Superannuation Fund, £13,000 ..J ■ ,B '°
1926.. 1.428.152 591,843 242,131 2,875 ) . Qft nR „
Superannuation Fund, £I3OO . . (
1927.. 1.509.097.621,418 270,181 3,494 ) fil97(U
Superannuation Fund, £I3OO . . J ’
Policies of Mutual Life Cos. of N.Y. taken over.
1928- 679,124 271,763 3,779 ) . nQ7 a „ R
Superannuation Fund, £I3OO .. j ’ ’ 8 0
1929- 810,954 290,883 4,583 < RS „ R9R
Superannuation Fund, £IOOO .. j ’
You need not worry about the drop of
£262,756 in income. In 1928 the Australian
business of the Mutual Life of New York
was taken over and £421,341 received for
reinsurance; last year only £11,936 came in
under that head. Disregarding the reinsur-
ances, the growth in the year’s income was
£146,649 compared with a growth of
£123,364 in 1928. And, what is more, the
actuary figured larger surpluses in each of
the three branches, despite a stinging in-
crease in taxation: —
Net surplus:— 1927. 1928. 1929.
Ordinary .. .. £380,933 £399,336 £403,338
Industrial . . . . 80,480 89,424 96,857
Accident . . . . 7,536 12,572 16,591
In the Ordinary branch £400,524 was dis-
tributed, providing reversionary bonuses
amounting to over £708,000 for participating
policies, the minimum rate being £2 4s. per
cent, on the sum assured, except for child
endowments, which receive a uniform rate of
255. p.c.
Though fewer policies were written last
year, the society got amongst bigger stuff: —
1911. 1928. 1929.
Policies .. .. 14,538 13,260 11.614
Amount .. .. £3,093,798 £6,184,849 £6,813,743
New premiums . . 95,017 225,352 259,556
Average policy .. 213 466 586
Average premium,
p.c £3/1/5 £3/12/11 £3/16/2
The spring in the average per policy was
£l2O. Moreover the year’s new business was
put on the books at a cost of 93.8 p.c.
as against 94.6, 98.6 and 115 p.c. back to
1926. That is apart from reinsurances, and
assuming that it takes only 7 p.c. of the re-
newal premiums to handle old business,
though it is doubtful whether it can be now
done so cheaply. Of the year’s total income
exes, took 16.2 p.c. compared with 16.6 and
17.9 p.c. in 1928 and 1929 respectively.
But tlie taxgatherer made off with an extra
£16,823 last year ; thus the net return on
average funds eased 3s. 4d. per cent: —
Net Interest on Average Funds.
1905 .. £8 17 11 p.c. 1925 .. £5 4 7 p.c.
1915 . . 4 9 11,, 1926 . . 5 7 0 „
1920 .. 4 17 9 ~ 1927 .. 5 5 10 „
1923 . . 5 2 11 ~ 1928 ... 5 1 11,,
1924 . . 5 1 5,, 1929 . . 4 18 7 ~
Still the rate realised was over 1.4 p.c.
better than the 3£ p.c. which the office
assumes its funds will earn. The recent rise
in iirterest rates should be helpful here, and,
provided the expense ratio continues on the
down grade, prospects for better bonuses are
bright.
The Industrial branch, established as a
feeder to the Ordinary department in 1909,
continues to progress
Industrial Department.
Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.
£ £ £ £
1918 . .
1920 . . 211,184 14,156 65,030 493.224
1922 . . 251,453 43,962 77,718 744,410
1923 .. 297,983 61,912 106.608 873.873
1924 . . 340,929 79,436 128,337 1,007,029
1925 .. 390,572 93,834 143,016 ), 951
Superannuation Fund, £6500.. f ’
1926 .. 448,495 133,349 155,139 ) , 313 cO7
Superannuation Fund, £ 650 .. )
1927 .. 484,272 157,208 164,060 ), 44 - 961
Superannuation Fund, £650 .. ) ’
1928 . . 534,140 150,570 180,561 ) j 94 g 320
Superannuation Fund, £SO .. J ’
1929 . . 587,221 89,372 185,272 ) j g 59 g 97
Superannuation Fund, £9OO •• I
Last year premium income sprang £42,772,
reaching £498,495, of which exes, took 37.1
p.c. as against 36.9, 38.9 and 40.6 p.c. back
to 1926. The nursing service has cost the
society nearly £38,000 during the last eight
years, but it has been very helpful'in build-
ing up goodwill.
Another profitable section is the 22-year-
old Accident branch. Here the year’s in-
come was £47,063, up £2861. Claims took
£15,816, and exes. £19,277, leaving a surplus
of £11,870. Funds totalled £96,574, of which
£9312 was earmarked for an extra 2 p.c.
to Accident policy-holders’ benefits.
Assets are a solid lot; the £12,042,153
belonging to policy-holders and a bit more,
was invested in these proportions at Dec.
31:—
1915. 1920. 1928.- 1929.
Public securities
and debentures 26.8 p.c. 63.5 p.c. 51.9 p.c. 02.4 p.c.
Mortgages . . 34.9 ~ 13.4 „ 19.1 ~ 19.9 „
Freeholds, etc. 20.4 ~ 12.6 „ 13.2 „ 13.2 „
Cash & deposits 6.3 „ 1.6 ~ 4.9 „ 3.0 „
Other assets .. 11.6 ~ 8.9 „ 10.9 „ 11.5 ~
Most of the year’s surplus takings went into
Government securities (£6,448,339, up
£668,070).
Anthony Hordern and Sons (Sydney).
f Dividends
Pref. To Re-
Feb., Profit. 74 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ ~£ £ £ £
1927. .150,320 39,221 8 p.c. = 69,589 41,510 20,283
Nominal
1928. 56,250 8 „ ~ 100,000 40,697 20,414
1929. .200,404 56,250 8 „ ~100,000 44,154 64,568
1930. .187,049 56,250 7 „ ~ 87,500 43,299107,867
Despite difficulties, this big and old-estab-
lished universal provider served more cus-
tomers last year than in the year before.
But these customers had to dip deeper into
their pockets for cash and IOUs, so turn-
over was less in value. The result, as
reflected in the accounts, was a drop of
£1.3,355 in the declared net profit (£257,049).
Nevertheless, after paying interest on a
million of 7 p.c. debentures, there was
£157,049 available for shareholders. The
prefs. called for £56,250 of this, a*nd the
balance was a very comfortable 10.4 p.c.
on ord. capital compared with 11.5, 11.3
and 10.9 p.c. back to the time the co. took
over the business. But as trading became
increasingly difficult toward the close of
accounts, and as conditions have been worse
since, the board reduced the final div. to the
rate of 6 p.c. p.a., making 7 p.c. for the
year.
The cut, however, was not unexpected.
The market, fearing the effects of reduced
spending and the sharp advance in exchange
rates, had gradually shortened its bid for
the ords. from 265. in Sept., 1929, to 16s.
lOd. early last month, then lengthened it
to ISs. 3d. following the publication of
accounts. At this last figure the return is
7.6 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis, and the
visible backing is 17s. 4d. in net tangibles.
That reckoning assumes that the amount
the co. paid for the very extensive goodwill
(£272.374 = 4s. 6d. per ord. share) has re-
mained unaltered.
But the latest figures do not reflect the
full effects of the change in trading condi-
tions. Hence the investor’s chief concern
is how the co. is likely to fare in the future.
Of course it is impossible to say definitely;
the first requisite is ability to weather a
rough passage without serious mishap, and
for this the co. is very well equipped indeed:
1927. 1929. 1930.
Ord. capital .. £1,246,250 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Pref. capital . . 750,000 750,000 750,000
7 p.c. debentures.. 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Sundry creditors.. 249.210 203,238 179,916
Freeholds, lease-
liolds, plant,
goodwill, etc... 1,750,237 1,724,340 1,766,393
Stocks 1,130,878 947,023 946,352
Book debts, invest-
ments, cash, etc. 441,777 674,568 640,663
At the close of last accounts the amount
coming to trade creditors, including provi-
sion for taxation, was more than 34 times
epvered by the item of book debts, invest-
ments. cash, etc., alone. And well over half
the £640,663 at which that item appeal’s is
represented by Commonwealth bonds, the
chairman admits. As for fixed assets, the
Sydney properties, including the big pile on
Brickfield Hill, are in at 1920 valuations,
less whatever has been written off for depre-
ciation since, while 'those in London were
taken over on the basis of a valuation made
in 1912.
Moreover the co. has a very capable
management, it handles a large and growing-
slice of city trade, and has very strong con-
nections in the country. One danger lies
in the possibility of funds earning less than
7 p.c., in which case the debenture debt
would be a drag; otherwise it will prove very
helpful to the ords. Recent widespread rains,
the. strengthening of wool prices, the end
of the trouble on the Maitland coalfields and
the more reasonable attitude of many sec-
tions of organised labor have put more bright-
ness into a recently very dull outlook. Never-
theless unemployment is still on the increase
and spending will be more restricted than
formerly. A good deal will depend on the
success of new manufacturing ventures and
the extension of old ones; thus far there
are fewer signs of vigor ip that quarter than
had been hoped for.
Commonwealth Wool and Produce (Syd.).
Bonus Added
to to Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1920.. 8,868 7 p.c. = 2800 6,252 36,764
Provident Fund, £IOOO .. .. 35,764
1921.. 3,559 Nil 3,336 223 35,987
Reserves capitalised, £9210 .. .. 26,777
Pref. Ord.
8 p.c. 8 p.c.
1922.. 12,003 1509 3679 5,470 1 ~,
Provident Fund, £914 .. j
1923.. 25,442 2624 3707 9,978 ) Rnsß m
Provident Fund, £3047 . . ) 6086 33 - 294
1924.. 21.275 3004 3756 10,149 ) 999 R
Provident Fund, £2140 .. ) do.o^u
1925.. 22.828 3425 5085 8,610 1 aaar o Q qrr
Provident Fund, £1262 .. ( 4446 39 ’ 966
1926.. 26.986 3425 7665 6,798 ) 7 , a) - , 7
Provident Fund, £1513 .. i ' oß °
All Shares.
1927.. 28,186 8 p.c. = 14,000 7874 (, R7l r 9 999
Provident Fund, £1641 .. ) 40/1
1928. 29.22 A 8 p.c. = 14,000 5 490 I 494 g 5? 170
Provident lund, £l/91 .. )
1929.. 29,207 8 p.c. = 14,389 7179 ) „ QQ . R 1
Written off, £3645 ) 39 4 b
1930.. 5,408 Nil Nil I 17QR QRn
Provident Fund, £612 .. j 4796 6j ’ 960
The co. started the last term with 9698 bales
in hand, and the year's consignments were
91,699, or 5394 bales less than in the pre-
vious year. But, owing to the extension of
the auctions, only 81,057 bales had been
sold at March 31, so there were then 20,340
still to be put under the hammer. Moreover,
for the nine months to March 31 wool aver-
aged only £l3 9s. lid. per bale as against
an average of £22 3s. 3d. for the correspond-
ing period of the previous season. Prices in
the sheep, hides, skin, tallow and produce
markets also weakened.
Mainly because of all this there -was a
sharp drop of £34,915 in the year’s gross
profit (£88,090). Exes. (£82,682) were
got back £11,116; thus the slip in the net
result was £23,799. The final figure was
only 2.4 p.c. on average capital compared
with 12,2, 11.8, 11.6, 14, 13.4 and 13.2 p.c.
back to 1924, when wool fetched about double
its present price. So shareholders, who had
received a regular 8 p.c. for. eight J.ea ,
went hungry—for the second time since th_
beginning of this century —and no bonu.
was paid to clients. For several years pre-
viously they had received rebates of 20 p.c. on
wool and 10 p.c. on livestock and produce
charges. ..
During the last half-dozen years the <o.
has gone deeper into the pastoral nnance
business, has bought a stock-resting depo .
etc., at Dubbo, a block of land at \A allan-
garra, a one-tliird interest in Lane ana
Mullins, Ltd., western stock and station
agents, and built itself a fine new wool
store. To do all this an extra £138,443 ol
capital has been got in since 1924, and tne
co. has leant heavily on outsiders:
1924. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Capital.. . . £93,871 £175,000 £207,222 £232,314
Liabilities .. 169,790 207,241 258,837 200,222
Buildings, etc.. 211,035 261,954 257,653 257.308
Stocks. . .. 2,170 5,204 3,537 1,340
Book debts .. 90,553 ]
Cash and public j- 209,050 304,300 271,88.-*
securities . . 15,753 J
H'ow much of the debt can be withdrawn at
short notice is not visible in the published
figures. Last year the amount coming to
sundry creditors, including provision for
taxation, was reduced £52,615, and the board
had to draw on advances, investments, etc.,
for £32,475 net. The £25,092 of fresh capital
gathered provided the rest, and there was
another £15,347 still to come in when the
books closed. There was then 13s. 2d. of
outside money at risk in the business for
every pound belonging to shareholders. The
more or less liquid surplus (£07,003 including
stocks) was £17,943 stronger than at the
previous balance.
Though recent events have improved the
immediate outlook in the pastoral industry,
the share market notes the heavy debt and
pays only 11s. for the pound shares as
against 255. lOd. a year ago. The backing
amounts to 235. 4d. in net tangibles.
Bushell’s, Ltd. (Sydney).
, Dividends \
Pref. To-Ro-
Mar., Profits. 8 p.c. Ordinaries. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
,50,139
1921.. 14,456 4326 4 p.c. = 4,509 5,621 44.518
1922.. 31,674 5600 10 ~ .. 11,273 14,801 29,717
1923.. 30,092 5600 10.6., „ 11,899 12,593 17,124
1924.. 36,836 5600 16.6 „,, 18,789 12,447 4,677
Reserve taken in, £1989 .. .. 2,688
1925.. 41,315 5600 11.1 p.c.=12,526 23,189 20,501
1926.. 43,120 5000 11.1 „ ~12,526 24,994 45,495
Reserves taken in, £63,093 . . • . 108,588
1927.. 49,899 5600 16.6 p.c.=18,790 25,509 134,097
1928.. 62,076 5600 16.6 „,, 18,789 37,687 171,784
P. and L.
All reserves lumped with Sundry Creditors. Balance.
Transferred to Reserves . . . . 9,900
1929.. 43,951 5600 16.6 p.c.=18,789 19,562 29,463
Transferred to Reserves, £10,000.. 19,463
1930.. 47,476 5600 15.8 p.c.=35,869 6007 25,470
Transferred to Reserves, £IO,OOO .. 15,470
This co.’s accounts were never very informa-
tive, but the present method of presenting
them obscures the position more completely
than ever. Neither outside liabilities nor so
much of the reserves as were formerly on
view can be definitely ascertained. At March-
-31, 1928, insurance and tax-free, capital and
general reserves appeared at £196,884. That
figure, plus £19,900 in the p. and 1. account,
less £45,000 trade marks, etc., accounts for
the £171,784 of reserves shown in the table
at that date. At the next balance creditors
and all reserves were lumped in one shock-
ingly untidy entry at £574,170. Then the
ords. were handed a one-fqr-one gift issue,
which called for £113,870; and in the latest
accounts creditors, etc., are £65,752 less. Thus
paid capital became £296,601 in 70,000 prefs.
and 239,127 0rd5.—125,257 of the latter are
paid to 18s. and the balance (last year's
gift) are fully-paid to £l.
In the past the “Wild Cat” always added to
the declared profit all unexplained additions
to visible reserves. These additions (£24,206
in 1928) cannot uow be ascertained, but the
declared net result of last year’s trading was
£3525 better than the previous year’s and
£9606 stronger than the 1928 figure. And
there is a strong probability that something
was slipped into reserves and nothing said
about it, as hitherto. At any rate, after
handing the prefs. their £5600, enough
remained to show 15.4 p.c. on ord. capital as
increased ; so, notwithstanding that it called
for nearly double the amount, a div. of 3s.
per share was paid as in the previous year
without cutting things too fine. Obviously
Australia’s tea-drinking habits have brewed
large profits for the co., which is likely to
feel the present pinch less than most others.
The groupings already referred to also
push the liquid position into the dark: —
1924. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital £182,731 £182,731 £182,731 £296,601
Liabilities .. 250,810 409,123 574,1701 508,4181
Premises . . 58,724 j 105 62 8 109,002 128,029
Plant, etc... 38,157.)
Stocks . 95,021 142,987 137,551 168,083
Book debts 64,538 83,256 65,243 64,600
Investments,
etc. . . 222,778 447,094 444,894 451,489
11 ncludes reserves.
The debt, whatever it amounts to, consists
(Continued on next vane.)


Watch
Your
Step
Anything may happen to
your investments in these
days.
If you want to protect
yourself read
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly”
JUNE NUMBER ON
SALE SATURDAY.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PEE ANNUM,
22/6. From Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
ẅ
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan Esq*
P. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.O.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland, and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
ẃ
Head Office,
Brisbane.
THE EQUITABLE LIFE
Assurance Company of Australasia, Ltd.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Office: 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Company issues every variety of Probate, Whole
Life, Endowment, Children’s E.ndo'wment, Combined
Benefits (All Sicknesses) and Personal Accident Policy.
Policies provide for payment of Hospital Expenses in
lump sum or partial disability, and for cessation of
premiums on total disability. Secure full particulars from
any of the Company’s offices.
FREDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
&
3 O OK
FINEST DRY GIN
& old tom
DT
IDEAS FOR YOUR WILL
THE MAIN POINTS ARE—
1. —To appoint a permanent and reliable Executor.
2. —To provide for your wife and family—
(a) Income to your wife; (b) Capital to y*sur children.
3. —To give general instructions to your Executor.
Write or call for our Booklet ‘’The Making of a Will.”
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED,
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
largely of “Eastern’’ drafts, necessary on
account of tlie co.’s heavy Asiatic purchases.
Last year’s increase in the book value of
fixed assets and stocks is mainly on account
of the new warehouse at Perth. Much of the
investments item is Government paper.
Public trading in the -scrip is confined to
the prefs., which carry a fixed cumulative
8 p.c. and enjoy priority as to capital. The
exact amount of net tangible backing cannot
be stated, but there is over £3 per share vis-
ible ; and last year’s net profit was more than
eight times their annual requirements. They
are in demand at 225. 9d., giving a return of
7 p.c.
Elder’s Trustee and Executor Cos.
To Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 5,059 10 p.c. = 2000 3059 12,340
1921.. 5,411 10 „ „ 4000 1411 13,751
1922.. 6,376 10 „ „ 4000 2376 16,12!
1923.. 7,696 10 ~ „ 4000 3096 19,823
1924.. 7,969 10 „ „ 4000 3969 23,792
Provident fund, £IOOO . . . . 22,792
1925 . . 7,749 10 p.e. = 5000 2749 25,541
1926.. 8,663 10 „ ~ 6000 2663 28,204
1927.. 10,366 10 „ „ 6000 4360 32,570
1928 . 10,514 10 „ „ 6000 j.
Provident fund, £IOOO j 66,084
1929.. 11,182 10 p.c. = 6000 5182 41,266
1930.. 13,101 10 „ „ 9000 4101 45,367
Much of the success of this little Adelaide
trustee co., which was hatched by Elder,
Smith and Cos. 20 years ago, has been due
to the support the big parent has been
able to give or influence. The policy has been
to get in capital as the business expanded, so
early in the last term those on the register
were asked for another shilling per share, and
then offered 60,000 new shares at par, one
for five. That made paid capital £OO,OOO in
360,000 £1 shares paid to 55.; it has been
more than quadrupled by par issues during
the last decade.
Over the same period both income and the
volume of trusts have more than trebled :
Gross Exes. p.c. of
Trusts. Profits. Exes. Gross.
1919.. £3,217,760 £11,212 £7,671 68.4 p.c.
1925.. 6,213,625 29,203 20,454 70.0 ~
1926.. 7,281,377 31,772 23,109 72.7 „
1927.. 8,027,324 34,486 24,120 69.9 „
1928.. 8,685,889 36,744 26,230 71.3 „
1929.. 9,845,192 38,433 27,251. 70.9 „
1930.. 10,307,327 41,371 28,270 68.3 „
Last year trusts £462,135 in excess of those
wound up were put on the books. Another
pleasing feature is that the business was
again handled at proportionately less' cost.
Gross profits were £2938 better, and exes,
made off with only £lOl9 of the increase.
Thus the net result benefited by £1919. and
was 14.5 p.c. on capital as increased, so
the 10 p.c. div. remained a comfortable
matter. Indeed, interest, etc., alone brought
in £571 more than the div. called for.
Assets arc a solid lot; out of a balance-
sheet .total of £142,367 at. March 31 no less
than £123,630 was represented by Govern-
ment securities.
Apart from the possibilities of legislative
interference, the future for these trustee cos.
looks as assured as any future can hence
the market for their scrip has not been
greatly disturbed by the readjustment of
prices on the Stock Exchanges. Yet there
must be a considerable shrinkage in earnings,
especially from corpus commissions. A
.t ear ago this co.’s shares fetched 145., equal
to 13s. 4d. after allowing for the call and
exercising the rights to the new issue; they
are now at 11s. 3d. Thus the market con-
tinues to discount the future, the return at
the current price being 4.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. The backing is 7s. 6d. in net
tangibles.
Broken Hill.
The market had a very uneasy feeling about
Broken Hill last week. That silver reached
a lower price than any ever recorded hither-
to was one factor; but more important still
are the statistics of lead and zinc. The in-
crease in the world production of these metals
lias been tremendous. C. V. Sale, chairman
of the British Metal Corporation, recently
estimated the figures (in tons) for the four
chief non-ferrous metals as follows:
1908. 1928.
Lead .. .. 1,060,00,0 1,620,000
Zinc .. .. 710,000 1,390,000
Copper .. .. 745,000 1,660,000
Tin.. .. .. 111,000 182,000
The production of zinc last year is believed
to have exceeded that of 1928, while tenta-
tive figures for lead are 1,710,000 tons.
The range of prices has been as follows:
Average for Last
10 Years to Year’s Present
Dec., 1929. Average. Price.
Lead .. £2B 2 0 £23 411 £lB 0 0
Zinc .. 31 13 6 24 17 8 16 16 3
Copper .. 67 6 6 75 9 7 53 18 9
Tin .. 234 9 3 203 18 10 141 3 9
Last year the price of copper was held up
by a combination of the chief American pro-
ducers ; but considerable stocks accumulated
and broke down the market. An effort is
now being made to improve the tin position;
and as the world’s chief producers are in it,
and as reduction of output is one of its pil-
lars, it may suceed. The difficulties in the
way of doing anything for lead, zinc and
silver are much greater, chiefly because many
mines produce one or two of these three as
by-products, and to be effective the movement
for stabilisation would have to take in all of
them. Further, the U.S.A., which is a very
large producer of all the metals and especi-
ally of lead, has a'large protected market—
the motor trade is a rabid consumer of lead
-—and can thus afford to whittle down the.
price for its surplus, whereas Broken Hill has
to look abroad for almost all its buyers.
Ever since the war the British Board of
Trade has taken the Broken Hill zinc output
at a price considerably in excess of recent
market prices. This contract expires on June
HO. The North, South and Zinc Corporation
have entered into an arrangement under
which “their zinc concentrate production after
June 30 will be purchased by the Electro-
lytic Zinc Cos. add the Imperial Smelting
Corporation (Britain),” To what extent this
may assist in the matter of prices has yet to
be seen: it may depend largely upon the
progress which the Protectionist; or “safe-
guarding” policy makes in Britain.
Production costs have been greatly reduced
by technical improvements at the North,
South and Zinc Corporation’s mines, and
(under more difficulties) by the Sulphide
Corporation; and there are ample funds to
carry through further cost-saving installa-
tions. But the coming year’s accounts are
going to show very shrunken profits despite
all this.
Last week the “Wild Cat” said the
Co-operative Breweries of Tasmania, Ltd.,
had put up the shutters. Actually what
it is still putting up is a strenuous fight
for existence. It was floated in 1920, and
built a brewery in Hobart. First accounts
to October 81, 1927, covered only weeks’
trading, which resulted in a loss of £3197;
for the next 12 months the trading loss was
£ll,lOO. Meanwhile £25,470 of ; expenditure
had been capitalised ; thus intangibles totalled
£80,570 at October 31, 1928. Paid capital
was then £88,183, and £37,119 had been
raised on debentures. Accounts to October
31 last are due any day now.
* * * *
There are signs of a revival in the Ether-
idge mining country, south-west from Cairns
(N.Q.). In days gone by the field, with
Georgetown as its centre, turned out a
good deal of gold, as well as copper and
tin. Several of the old mines have been
taken up again, mostly by local syndicates,
and the battery at the Cumberland is to be
reconditioned to treat ore from small show's.
If the Federal Government decides to pay a
gold bonus the revival is likely to be vigorous.
The trouble with the Etheridge gold in the
past has been that, in addition to a high
silver content, the ore became heavily sul-
phided at depth'. But recovery processes
have improved out of sight in the past 30
years, so much of the 'stuff that was useless
to the pioneers of the field may be payable
now. The old railway from the main Cairns
line to Einasleigh and Charlestown will pro-
vide effective transport if occasion arises,
though it will need much reconditioning.
❖ sjs $
Chillagoe Smelters (Q.) has issued a
new and lower tariff for copper ores. This is
an attempt to compensate for the drop to
£6O for electrolytic copper. But since most
copper shows in the neighborhood have shut
down it is doubtful whether the smelters can
keep going much longer. Under this new
tariff 20 p.c. copper ore is worth £5 11s. 3d.
at the smelters, and 30 p.c. ore is worth
£9 ss. Id.; but cartage, railage and mining
expenses have to be deducted from these
figures, so the net return may be very little.
Gougers will pick the eyes out of the shows
to scrape parcels together; that’s why in
many cases gouging is a curse to the industry.
* * * *
_ Victoria hasn’t done much in the way of
oil-drilling; but there has lately been nasty
talk about even that little. One stock has
been behaving as though it had St. Vitus’s
dance, and a field official is said to have been
too much interested in the market and too
little in the boring. Melbourne Stock Ex-
change is supposed to have made inquiries,
but thus far there is only silence about its
conclusions, if. any.
* * si: *
The hills behind Adelaide are being
“specked” again. Gold is all over them, but,
as experience shows, only in very small
■quantities; still, while giving tucker, there
are always possibilities of something bigger.
The Hill Government talks of putting
£30,000 on the estimates for outfitting pro-
spectors; but anything done in that way
ought to be for new country.
& * * . #
“Orpiment”: No need to go to Wiluna or
elsewhere in Westra-lia for arsenic required bv
Eastern States (B. 21/5/’3O). At the old
Moruya* silver-mines, on the N. S. Wales
South Coast, there is enough arsenical ore
to satisfy the Australian demand for many a
day to come. The mispickel ore has a con-
siderable gold and silver content, with
arsenic sulphides and red oxide of iron.
Before the war German lessees shipped
thousands of tons to Germany for treatment.
A local enthusiast has taken up some 38
acres of the ground and is endeavoring to
find capital for development. The leases
include a* crude roaster, and it is said the
ore can be got easily and in great quantity.
* * # *
Mararoa is still looking for fresh capital.
The board is trying to find it on the spot,
and meanwhile' a shareholder has gone
abroad to see if he can get it there. There
is a fair tonnage of half-ounce ore exposed in
the. mine, but without up-to-date equipment
it is almost worthless.
* * *
Les Trois Cos., Westonia (W.A.), has
decided to have a rest. Cheerful reports
about its activities were published some time
ago in Adelaide and Perth, but little has
been heard of it lately. The “Wild Cat”
can see no hope for it under present con-
ditions.
* * * *
In spite of the heavy fall in the price
of the metal, another batch of mines in the
Alluvial Tin group has shown profits. For
the year ended Dec. 31 tlie big Larut amal-
gamation was £42.696 ahead of it, yet that
was nearly £IO,OOO less than for the year
before. With £6907 brought forward, there
was £49,603 available, and from this two
Od. divs. took £30,000 as against a distribu-
tion of £45,000 for 1928. Including £25,000
owing on the dredge, there was £29,362 com-
ing to creditors, and the co. had £111,203
in Commonwealth bonds and cash to meet it.
There: is £600,000 of capital to feed. Work-
ing costs for the year’s big turnover averaged
4.43 and. The directors ascribe the slump in
metal prices to over-production, stimulated by
earlier high' prices.
Jelapang’s profit was £13,597, after knock-
ing off £3918 for depreciation and balance
of development account written off. Four 6d.
divs. took £12,000, and since the balance was
struck a 6d. div. in March of this year
has > absorbed £3OOO. Capital is £120,000 in
f.p. £1 shares. Recent offers for the shares
were Larut 6s. 6d., Jelapang 13s. 6d.
Cabled summaries show tha<t Rawang Tin
Fields, another amalgamation, made a profit
of £44,399, including £6964 from sales of
electricity and £6380 from investments.
Issued capital is £876,000 in 10s. shares.
Kuala Ivampar’s profit was £58.983. Issued
capital is. £585,000 in 10s. shares. Sydney
quote, 6s. 2d. b.
* * * 4=
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
! (T)> Buyers of hematite in Sydney? (2)
Approx. , price per ton f.0.r., Sydney f (3)
Is Australian Alloy Steel a smelting' co.? —
6613..
(1) There is little or no demand in N. S.
Wales for hematite as .an ore of iron, as
supplies of iron ore are obtained from quar-
ries controlled by the steel manufacturers.
Small quantities of hematite are sometimes
saleable for fluxing purposes, but the price
rarely exceeds 255. per. tan at the smelting
works. Soft earthy hematite is used as a
pigment by paint manufacturers, and by gas
cos. in the purification of gas. (2) As an
ore of iron for tne manufacture of steel or
for fluxing purposes the price ranges from
£1 to £1 10s. per ton delivered at works.
Asa pigment the price varies from £3 to
£lO per ton, depending upon the shade and
strength of color. (3) No. But Australian
Iron and Steel, Ltd., Port Kembla, smelt
iron ores.
(1) Approximate amount-of tin 'used- in
manufacture of motor-cars and artificial-silli
stockings and proportion to world output?
(2) What proportion is used, to counteract
corrosion? (3) Is there likely to be a rise in
tin prices in the near future? —6777.
(1) No estimate seems to have been made,
but it is believed the amount is a very small
proportion. (2) Approximately 35 per cent,
of world’s consumption. (3) At present the
marketing of tin is practically controlled by
the new Tin Producers’ Association,. which
includes representatives of the principal
mines. It is claimed that this will stabilise
the market at profitable prices; but it has
to be proved. Prospects are good.
(1) A represents ah English broker. B
represents an Australian shipping agent. 0
represents an Australian grower. A in TJ.K.
sends to B in Australia a letter of credit
under which B on A’s account makes ad-
vances free of interest and exchange to C
on produce which is shipped to A through B.
A, on receipt of G’s produce, sells it and
remits net proceeds to B, who in turn, pays
C. (2) A represents an Australian grower.
B represents an Australian broker. A wants
to ship produce to TJ.K. under advance from
B. B makes that advance, ships produce to
TJ.K. and eventually obtains account sales.
How does exchange apply at present time—
(l) To advance when made? (2) To net
proceeds of account sales when received? —
6783. . , , , „
(1) C is entitled to net proceeds of goods
sold in London plus exchange on his money
to Australia — less freight, etc., insurance,
B’s commission and interest on his
advance to C and cost of cable remitting
proceeds to Australia. (2) A ships produce
to London through B. B makes advances
ŵ


Iv
/ -V' : ’*•
«&s£*.
5^
y»-
/
0
" VTTrrn
NfcW
SC
m
CAP
m
,r.
<£
Pit. SAFE
ECURE-
SEALED VACUUM'
in
©OLD LABEL
u
OLD SCOTCH WHISK¥
ualit
isny o
umoum
/
hm
m
Uf/ifK
N •?■( \a -<IJ
SHG
*1
fftSfA'Sfs"*'**,,, -AA <j
I^MV
£dun6uyA
*\
Vd
LA^®*
P.
#•
<cowtiin <■
%
<*«/Z/- W^'C'
4 "** £ w «
in seQT^^
V* ?
r
nja
MSS
ssasi
S ' >
■V'ii
m
assn
«
!®
#S
#i
SlSiSy
P
,f«
sa
fttit
SfeSVW
A\
r fir*
3jm 5
MS
l v\
ilk. f
&
nni
B
iMS
; -
Sraa
US
s -&&,K£w»=aa^<«fc t *«S9
as is
m
i^A
9HBMOBI
/
SssaAv} fct-Aa W’ftiw'i?.
yH
m
wz
111 I Mini M I I > I I II •*-
Si
wMMM
y A‘w


W. W. GREENER
GUNS
•
Sh€s-^ f
W. W. GREENER LTD., Birmingham
Wholesale Australian Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.,
405-07 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, C,l.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
7 he Stanaara ©i Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Kus9
Detonators
Cartridges
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who ofiers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All "meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner &
la carte from 1/6. Inclusive tariff from 13/6
per day, or £4/4/- weekly. Special quotations; for
sporting bodies, etc. Situated right opposite Spencer
Street Station; no taxi fares; railway porter carries
baggage across if necessary. Please write for
detailed tariff card. Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is
sufficient address.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
THE QUALITY POLISH
KIWI
SETTING HER MIND AT REST.
MRS. BAYSWATER-RHODE : “Of course, I expect the rent punctually.”
MR. CAESARS-CHOSTE: “Pre-cisely, madam! My rule is punctually or not at all.”
“Rob P.”: When Monty Woolpacks ac-
quired Whoopybilla Downs on walk-in walk-
out 'terms Ted, the station’s bullocky, went
with it. Ted had stood several changes of
ownership and reckoned that another
wouldn’t worry him. But Monty was city
bred and had ideas of his own about how a
squatter should squat. Twice a week he used
to rig himself out in plus-fours and motor
out to a flat along the creek to keep up his
golf. One day he found Ted mooning
around the hut and took him along as
caddie. About an hour after they had
left, the bullocky returned to the home-
stead alone and began to roll his swag.
“Did he sack yer, Ted?” inquired Charlie
the cook. “Sack me be blithered !” exploded
Ted; “I’m leavin’! I could stand the silly
cow’s kid’s pants, but I’m ’anged if I’ll
work for a boss that can swear better’u
meself!”
* * * *
“Delia”: Queensland, which specialises in
things of the sort, has just reported a miracu-
lous visitation o.f crabs and fishes at two
widely-separated areas, each some 50 miles
from the sea. At Laidley, not far from
Gatton of the historical murder mystery, a
dairy-farmer, after a heavy cloudburst, found
the grass of one of his paddocks alive with
hopping fish about four inches long. At
Bundamba, near Ipswich, another farmer
found a high hill on his property crawling
with lively crabs. The theory is that these
animals were taken up like Elijah, but in the
chariot of a waterspout, and then deposited
inland when the chariot got tired; and
similar happenings are often reported. But
I cannot remember an instance of anyone
tasting the wet grass to see if the water came
from the sea, or presenting specimens of the
fishes to experts for identification. These
simple precautions are advisable if only to
dispel the suspicion that Queensland dairy-
farmers fortify their morning draught of
milk before exploring their domains at sun-
rise.
* * * £
“Billy See”: The Edjudina district, now
raising a flutter of hope in W.A. mining
Circles, was well known in the ’nineties.
Prospecting out that way in ’O7 my brother
and I discovered amongst the barren spinifex
a convict’s shoe, sun-baked and weather-
beaten, but unmistakable with its crossed
leather thongs a*nd enormous hobnails. Pro-
bably it was discarded by some thirst-stricken
absconder who, taking advantage of a good
season, had imagined that he could make
his way across to New South Wales or
Queensland. Many W.A. convicts made the
attempt and not a few perished. The dis-
tance from York, the farthest-out convict
station, to Edjudina is well over 400 miles.
❖ # * *
“Wang”: The Boggy Creek Show was in
full blast, and Bill and Jim stopped in front
of a tent where a loud-voiced person was in-
viting anybody who felt so disposed to have a
Wrestling bout with Ivan Tearemoff, the re-
nowned Russian wrestler. Twenty pounds
would be paid to the man who could last 10
minutes against Ivan without a fall. Bill was
the strong man of Boggy Creek, and he re-
solved to give the stranger a go. He posted Jim
outside the tent to time the bout. Bill
entered the tent and was soon hard at it with
the alleged Russian. For several minutes
all Jim could hear was gasps, grunts and
groans as Ivan sought to pin Bill. Then sud-
denly from inside the tent came a shriek of
anguish, and the next minute Bill came limp-
ing out. “Cripes !” wailed Jim, “watcher give
ill fer? Y’ had only ten seconds to go, an’
that 20 quid would have been ours.” . Bill
hopped around on one foot for a minute or
so. “I beat meself,” he said disgustedly.
BUSINESS AND PLEASURE.
“So Dave and Sarah are off for their honeymoon, arc they?”
“Yeah.”
“Where they goin?”
“Rabbitin’.”
“We’re goin’ it hammer an’ tongs, an’ gets
wrist locks an’ strangle holts, half-nelsons
an’ Boston crabs an’ scissor grips on each
other. Then we each gets a toe-hold as I
thought, an’ he starts t’ give me gip till I
yells out an’ breaks away. It was easier
tnan I thought, an’ no wonder.” “Why?”
asked Jim, curiously. said Bill,
rubbing his toe gently, “he didn’t have no
toe-hold. I wus screwin’ an’ tearin’ me
own toe outer its socket.”
* * * *
“Echoe”: The maternal centipede doesn’t
eat her young, as supposed by “Fitz” (B.
30/4/’3O). She has a pouch-like arrange-
ment, resembling a pelican’s bill, behind the
gullet, and into this the youngsters crawl in
times of danger.
* * * *
“Homfrey Beale”: One of the worst
breaches of etiquette in the bush is to caress
or make overtures to another man’s dog.
Generally the offender is apprised of the mag-
nitude of his crime by a
blow from the _ dog’s
owner, delivered without
explanation or comment
of any kind; and after
the fight the father of a
hiding is administered to
the hound. A recent case
had a more tragic sequel
for the animal concerned.
Two tramps called at a
rabbit-trapper’s camp
near Lake Cargellico
(N.S.W.) and were
accommodated with a
feed. During the meal
one of them held out a
piece of meat to the trap-
per’s dog, which accepted
it, and returned a subse-
quent patting by licking
the hand of the giver. In
silence the trapper rose,
went to his tent, and,
returning with . a shot-
gun, threw a stick at the
dog to make it run.
After the cartridge had sung the animal’s
requiem he laconically remarked: “A dog
that’s everybody’s dog is no good to me,”
$
“Wingella”: The N.T. has its unsolved
mysteries. Take the case of David Byers,
who disappeared some 12 years ago in the
Victoria River district. Visiting Darwin for
medical treatment, he set out to return over-
land via the Katherine, picking up and
taking with him a man to assist in fencing
his run. The two men left the Katherine
together, with horses and packs, and tra-
velled till they came within about 35 miles
of Byers’s station. Here, according to the
report of the other man, Byers got an attack
of fever, and was unable to proceed. j
other man went ahead with the packs an
camped at the station for two days, expecting,
so he said, that Byers would catch him up.
Getting worried at his non-appearance, tne
man and other employees set off t°r tne
place where Byers had been left. ±ney
found no sign of him, nor has anyone set
eyes on him from that day to this. Myall
niggers, whose skill in tracking is pheno-
menal, spent almost a fortnight in the search
but could find not .so much as the sign of
a footprint. Byers’s horse was found, with
the saddle nearly torn off, three months
later on the run where it was foaled, but
there the story ends.
* * * *
“Harold ITardupp”: The furtive man who
handed me the dirty card which showed that
he was Adolphus Muttonbrane of the Austra-
lian Natural Resources Development Syndi-
cate added, later, that he ivas the Syndicate
and tried to sell me shares in the Snakeskiu
Motor-tyre Co., which apparently was an off-
shoot of himself. His idea was the wholesale
capturing of snakes (later on starting, a farm
for breeding purposes, when they became
scarce) and their conversion by patent pro-
cesses, including rubberising the interior
works, into tyres. Once the scheme was
marketed, he assured me, there was a for-
tune in it; but ho offered me 100 fl shares
for £lO down, and a place on the board.
Finding me uninterested, but refusing to be-
lieve that I was unfinancial, he let me into
his idea about converting pig’s grunts into
motor-horns —he pointed out that the appa-
ratus in the pig which made the grunt was
at present a waste product, but, by his
rubberising process, could be converted into
a horn that would last indefinitely. Another
scheme of his was the collection of bush-
spider webs to sell as fly traps, and he had
a proposal also for making vehicle springs
out of kangaroo tails —his rubberising pro-
cess came in here again. H'e got down this
time to suggesting a single share in any one
of the companies for two bob, adding vaguely
that it would carry a controlling interest in
the company. Finally Muttonbrane borrowed
sixpence to pay for tram-fares to another
prospect, but —since I followed him down in
the lift—l have reason to believe that the
prospect must have been in the near-by pub.
Still he certainly has ideas.
* * * *
“A. J.” : Ma*king a fire in the bush with-
out matches was an art known to all good
bush'men 70 years ago. Most of them carried
a flint and a tinderbox (a shut knife did
for a steel). When a spark caught, the
tinder was placed in a tuft of dry grass,
which was brandished vigorously till the
gra*ss burst into flame. If flint and tinder
were forgotten there was nothing for it but
to take a leaf out of Binghi’s book. A dry
log with a crack in it was a first essential.
The crack was packed with horse dung
(Binghi used emu dung) and a sliver of
wood about a ya*rd long, split to a sharp edge,
was rubbed across the crack. If the da*y
was very hot and you were very persevering
there came a time when the fuel in the
crack commenced to smoke and then to
glow.
UNAPPRECIATED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ’Twas my old man, God bless his heart!’’
confided Tipperary Dan,
“Taught me the culinary art, the proper way
of handling scran.
And he was reckoned extra smart, take it
from me, was my old man.
“He didn’t bother with ragouts or fricassees
or snipe on toast;
He gave his diners goodly stews, he filled
them up with boiled and roast.
Points upon which it won’t be news to say
I’m slicker far than most.
“I ain’t a chef. I couldn’t sling a salmi
or a sillabub.
And yet I’ve been the kitchen’s king in many
a pretty decent pub
And made a pretty decent thing of an in-
finity of grub.
“I’ve cooked at joints where navvies vast
their healthy appetites appease.
No pie I made was ever passed; no roly-
poly failed to please.
For those before (and aft) the mast I’ve
rustled hash on various seas.
“I’ve cooked on bloody fields of war, with
shocking scarcity of wood,
And few there were who groused or swore.
The most exacting understood
I’d done my best and something more, when
something less had tasted good.
“But there’s one class it’s hard,” said Dan,
“to satisfy by hook or crook.
This dish or that some nark will ban with
meaning sniff or scornful look.
I doubt if even my old man had made the
grade as shearers’ cook.”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


Si i.
mk
The
Rabbit
may have good cause for
dejection owing to the
label he sees. But the
Skin
Owner
has
a different viewpoint. He wants top values for his
consignments. He knows that the use of a Winch-
combe Carson label results in the realisation of that
objective. For highest market prices
CONSIGN RABBIT, FOX AND OTHER SKINS TO
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Winchcombe House, or 99-101 Eagle St.,
Bridge St., Sydney, Brisbane.
HOW MANY TIMES ?
How many times haVe you promised someone near and dear
that you would, for a mutual purpose, save your money?
How many times have you promised yourself that the next big
opportunity would find you prepared?
How many times have you admitted the wisdom of saving habits
and then left the other fellow to do the saving?
Does it mean anything to you that in Australia there are several
million other fellows steadily saving their spare cash and beating you
to the big opportunity?
Take a Savings Account into partnership—profit is assured.
Cbmmoitwcaltl) Savings JBank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
EIGHT-DAY TOURS
from Sydney to
MT. BUFFALO
NATIONAL PARK.
“The finest holiday resort in
Australia.”
£l4/17/-
covers all travel costs and
accommodation tariff for May
and June.
Book now at the
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
Martin Place, Sydney;
or
Melbourne Tour Reservations,
Government Tourist Bureau,
Melbourne.
“Pick”: “Scran'’ says (B. T4/5/’3O) that
rabbit does “never rear their young in a
communal dwelling.” > Why then is' it that
in the blind burrows of any warren there
are found heaps of nesting material, arid
about the tunnel-mouths in the breeding
season there are always kittens of every
age? “Scran” misses the point, well known
to expert rabbiters, that there exist breeds
that never mix with the throng. They occupy
isolated single burrows, hollow logs and
crannies in the rocks, and their does, as
“Scran” describes, nest in places apart. The
community rabbits flock to feed on the flats ;
the hermits stay back among the hills. They
too are the fellows that when pursued by
dogs will race across the proffered safety of
a warren entrance and resolutely decline to
enter, though sorely harried by the panting
mob at their tails.
“V.H.R.” : R.A.A.F. officers are making an
aerial survey of 700 square miles of the
Speck’s forests. The system is to take
photographs of the ground from a height of
12,000 ft., and later the pictures are pieced
together, the result being a realistic map.
In two hours recently a Forestry official
made a survey of the Cradle Mt. area which
would have taken two months to accomplish
on foot.
sje ❖ *
“Gad”: Here’s a question for the Council.
How do rabbits dispose of the large quan-
tity of earth excavated during the formation
of an extensive burrow? The heap outside
the main entrance can represent only a very
small percentage of the amount which must
be moved. Where does the rest go ?
“Dunrobin”: Our homestead is built on the
side of a hill, and from one end of the front
verandah it is possible to touch the top-
most branches of young
eucalypts. Tlie other morning
my small son drew me from my
warm bed with an outcry to the
effect that “patterkillers with
heads like Pomble” were to be
seen on one of the branches.
Now Pomble, the kid’s dearly-
loved Pomeranian, had died a
week before, and I cursed the
chance that renewed the sorrow.
However, there was no mistak-
ing the resemblance. Clustered
round a slender sapling was a
solid wad of large elongated
grey grubs with little sharp
noses and ears. I incautiously
mentioned that, they would have
to be destroyed, lest they get
into the vegetable garden, and
there was such a storm of grief
that I had to swear I wouldn’t
touch ’em. Ah Loon, our cook,
appeared upon the verandah
during the scene and disappeared
before it ended, casting at me
a look which I interpreted as
one of sympathy. I had a bust-
day, and at night we had some
guests at dinner. I didn’t think
of the grubs again till the Rev.
Parsley's wife complimented me
on the soup. It certainly was
very tasty, unusually rich in
flavor, but why? Pretending to have heard
a dingo I rushed out on to the verandah.
The grubs were gone! Next day Ah Loon
went too.
“Wang” : Alick McPherson had suspected
for a long time that Terry Malone, who
earned a scanty livelihood fossicking in the
creek and lived by himself in a hunt about
a quarter of a mile from the McPherson
homestead, had been systematically stealing
firewood, As it had to be carted from the
forest 20 miles away firewood was a valu-
able commodity in the district. One night
Alick strolled across to old Terry’s hut, and
found that party sitting in front of a blazing
log fire. Alick seated himself opposite Terry,
A LOT SHE KNEW ABOUT IT.
LADY SYMPATHISER : “My poor man, why don’t you try to keep out of gaol?
PRISONER: “Blime, missus, I done me best an’ then they give me three months extra
f’r resistin’ the police.”
and after touching on various topics in a
conversational way, remarked, “I’ve gotter
sorter idea in my head, Terry, that someone’s
been pincliin’ our firewood. I dunno who
it is ; but he’s due fer a shock whoever he
is. Some that wus pinched last night wus
loaded. I put some sticks of jelly in th’
logs.” A second later Alick was lying on
his back, and Terry was rushing outside
with the upturned kerosene bucket Alick
had been sitting on. Two seconds later
Terry was back, and a deluge of water
descended on the flames. There came a
THE ONLY HOPE.
THE AUCTIONEER : “Now, gentlemen, here is lot three. i How shall we start her?”
THE MART WAG : “Better try a match, I think, Billy!”
scuffling and scrambling in the chimney,
something flopped on to the steaming logs,
and a partly-singed and steam-soaked owl
floundered on to the floor. “Got him!”
howled Terry. “That bloomin’ owl ’as bin
up there every night. He got on my nerves,
an’ that wus th’ only way I could think
of catchin’ him. Now, I’ll have to relight
that fire.” Old Terry’s quick wit saved
him, but the McPherson’s wood-heap didn’t'
suffer in future.
“A.J.M.”: It isn’t as hard as it might
seem to make friends with the birds about a
country or suburban home. Thrushes, yellow
robins, fantails and wrens may be tamed
quite easily, whilst in time the shyer and
rarer birds will also accept hospitality
extended to them. Food and water troughs
are not desirable—-the sparrows and star-
lings will far outnumber the native birds
in their attendance. The best method is
to throw small scraps—preferably cheese- —
to the birds, gradually bringing them closer
until they rest on the hand. Even shy crea-
tures such as cat-birds, wonga pigeons and
satin bower birds have been tamed by people
who have devoted a little time each day to
them.
“Avon” : The dog that howls at the moon
and deprives a whole suburb of its' rest has
been given its 98th legal sanction to con-
tinue its vocal exercises in Maoriland. It
has long been well known in the Dominion
that if you rush forth in your pyjamas, with
a shotgun and assassinate the brute you
can be indicted on about 14 counts, impris-
oned for a long term and mulcted in heavy
damages, the law being apparently framed
by chemists, who get some profit out of
the sale of cotton-wool and prussic acid.
The other night a resident of Island Bay,
Wellington, an upright and law-abiding citi-
zen named Herbert Eliza Barnes, who had
been ill a long while and longed for sleep,
which had for many nights been banished
by the baying of a neighbor’s hound, crept
from his bunk, broke and entered a wash-
house in which the brute was incarcerated,
and, saying soft words, coaxed it to a wharf,
where he induced it to sleep. He had formed
a desperate plan of spiriting it away by
the first train in the morning. But he was
dead tired, the dog seemed to like his com-
pany, and they slumbered peacefully together
on the waterside. Barnes awoke with a start
to find that the dog had gone, and overcome
with remorse he went to the local police-
station and
confessed ljis
crime. A
charge of
t heft was
entered, and
after Barnes
had. signed a
ba i 1-bond lie
was allowed to
return to his
home. The dog
has not since
been seen. A few days later Barnes stood in
the dock, His solicitor recited the facts, and
the magistrate dismissed the charge of theft,
but added that the owner of the dog had
his civil remedy. The dog had been abducted
and lost, and whether it drove people crazy
or not the laws of property must be re-
spected.
* * * *
“Scran'’: The other day 1 killed a tiger
snake, about two feet long. That is not
remarkable. After smashing his head I
knelt down to examine him, admiring his
beautiful coloring, and was surprised to see
a number of lice running hither and thither
along his body. They moved very swiftly,
first one way, then the other, as though
perturbed at the death of their host and won-
dering how they w r ere going to get another.
It was only a matter of seconds from the
time I killed the snake till the examination,
so it was impossible for them to crawl on
him after death.
Sj: *
“Runa”: Although the Goulburn district
(N.S.W.) has been properly concerned to
learn that some large unknown animal is
mauling sheep on outer holdings, and
nervous folk when abroad by night leap
agitatedly into mid-air if a bush rustles
unexpectedly, the theory that a ravening
leopard is about needs to be taken with
reservations. A year or so ago a leopard
escaped from the Auckland Zoo, and caused
awful perturbation in the city. The beast
was young and small, but when, after a
week, it was still unaccounted for, timid
pedestrians told tales of enormous, lurking
creatures in dim highways, fowl-fanciers
reported tremendous losses of poultry, and
each suburb regularly advised the presence
nightly of herds of snarling wild beasts.
It was solemnly stated that with the great
amount of natural food available the
leopard would probably be able to sustain
itself in luxury until full-grown, when it
would take to the bush and become a per-
manent menace. The Zoo authorities offered
a substantial reward for the capture of the,
animal alive or dead, and the terrified city
hoped for the best. Three weeks after
the escape two young men boating ou the
Tamaki River, a few miles out, were
attracted by the sight of a strange animal,
indisputably very dead, floating down stream,
and rowed over to investigate. It was the
missing leopard. The post-mortem at the
Zoo proved that the unfortunate stray, born
in captivity and hand-fed from birth, had
died of starvation.
WHEELBARROW JOE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From field to field, from town to town,
’Loug many a lonely track,
Pie wheeled his barrow up and down
! A thousand hills out back.
’Twas laden with a bulky swag,
With axe and tins and cans, #
His tucker and his waterbag,
His digger’s kit and ■ pans. >
No lazy-boned. sundowner’s load
For old Wheelbarrow 7 Joe
To shove all day on track and road
Where fortune-hunters go.
Part-harnessed to . the shafts was he,
To ease each horny hand,
As on he pushed with bending knee
Through gibbers, mud and sand.
At times he left the beaten wmys
Arid trundled through the bush,
To wandyr in the wilds for days,
To shovel, pick and push.
When good luck made him smile and sing,
And gold was in his kit,
Not off lie cast the wobbling thing,
But trimmed and painted it.
While others rode where roads were rough,
Or humped swags to and fro,
The creaking wheel was good enough
For old Wheelbarrow Joe.
N.s.w.
E.S. SORENSON.


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
Him
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
TRAVEL IN COMFORT
with a
VICARS ALL-WOOL
TRAVELLING RUG
These Rugs are of the same high quality as
VICARS’ WORSTED SUITINGS
Manufactured by—
JOHN VICARS & CO., LIMITED,
MARRICKVILLE, N.S.W.
WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydneyl
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CR PARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
WOOLSHED FIXINGS.
“G. City”: Many small woolgrowers will
have to do their own shearing next season,
instead of having it done under the more
convenient but more expensive contract
system at a depot shed; and their little
sheds will probably have to be reappointed.
The use of green saplings can be recom-
mended to those in this position. Stripped
of their bark and trimmed up with a toma-
hawk —or, better still, a sharp meat-axe—
they can be put to many uses. Of course,
catching pens, built of fairly stout stuff, are
an old idea, and the man who cannot build
himself gates of his own suckers is rare. It
is less usual to see wool bins built out of
saplings, though they make much more effec-
tive partitions than wire-netting or old wool-
packs. They should be nailed to the rafters
above and to cleats on the floor below.
Any handy man ought to be able to knock
up a bit of a table for skirting and rolling
his fleeces. Some straight green sticks across
the top at intervals of about an inch, to let
the locks and second cuts through, make
very effective battens. If there is not too
much room in the shed, the table can be
built against the wall, and even put on
some sort of ninges to be let down if neces-
sary when not in use. If it is hinged, of
course some props will be wanted for the
outer side, and, in any case, a one-sided
table should always be made to slope toward
the man who is using it. He can work twice
as fast and twice as well jf it is so.
About presses. Of course, it makes a dif-
ference to the carriage, and it looks much
better, to have bales properly pressed, but,
having had 20 years’ experience on the
expert staff of a woolbroker, I can vouch
for it that the ordinary clip sells as well
in spade-dressed bales as in the more' uni-
form ones. It is the value of the wool itself
the buyers want, not the shape in which it is
done up. When it is dumped, a bale of
wool is a different-looking object again from
what it was as a pressed or unpressed
article. But a ma*n can turn out an astonish-
ingly neat and tight package if he builds
a box, even a skeleton box, to hang his pack
in before he fills it with the wool or treads
it down.
Finally, I would say that, useful as it is
outside, wire-netting is a pest inside woOl-
sheds. The wool clings to it like blazes,
and, even at to-day’s prices, wool is too
valuable to be wasted.
SICK EWES IN LAMB.
“Specker”: The disease described by
“Valerin” (B. 5/7/’80) has been known for
some years in the Speck; it is commonly
called twin disease. Gentle exercise and a
change from dry, feed to good pasture or
young oats have been recommended, and with-
out a doubt both palliatives are helpful; but
it is thought now that the root cause is lack
of mineral contents in the feed. The fact that
only "ewes in lamb are affected, and particu-
larly -those carrying twins, supports this
theory.
The ewe must find lime and phosphates
for the bones of its offspring, and denudes
her own system if the supply is insufficient.
All sheep on fibrous fodder should be supplied
with a good lick, such as the following:
Coarse salt, 100 parts; sterilised bone meal,
40 parts; super., 10 parts; iron sulphate, 2
parts, and sufficient molasses dissolved in
three parts of water to make the mass
cohere.
This disease is incurable after it has
become acute, but exercise and change of
feed may save the rest of the flock after its
appearance. Prevention is, however, the best
policy.
TO BEAT THE DINGO.
“Columbus”: I agree with The Bulletin
contributor who wrote that the dingo does
not deserve his reputation for cunning. The
ordinary trap is effective when used with a
decoy—any nasty substance of canine origin.
A good bottled decoy is the fermented fluid
from a boiled-down dingo with a dash of
aniseed oil added. Using ordinary newspaper,
set the trap off the side of the pad or road,
and about a foot out from a tree or similar
object, against which is placed the decoy. If
all signs of disturbed earth are removed no
other precaution is necessary.
For the dog that is trap-shy try the spring
gun. A shot gun is surest, but any rifle
is effective and less risk attends possible con-
tact with horses or cattle. I have often had
rifles sprung by large stock without damage
to the latter; but, of course, all stock should
be kept out of the way. To the stock of the
gun fasten a bracket which stands out two
inches from the trigger, opposite which a
nine-inch rod is pivoted on the bracket. One
end of this lever rests against the trigger,
and to the other end is attached not more
that five or six yards of very fine snare wire.
Unravelled gauze is excellent, but do not
use cotton. Set the gun firmly and well
concealed beside the pad at a height of 15
inches, and stretch the fine pull-wire across
the pad in the line of fire at a height of
six inches. The tension must be so regulated
that a movement of the pull-wire of two to
three inches causes discharge.
An advantage of the gun trap is that its
set is improved by rain, which obliterates
all smell, whereas any fall above a few points
spoils the set of a spring trap. A last word:
Do not waste time laying baits in sheep
country. Your only victims are likely to be
valuable sheep dogs.
TACKLING BRACKEN FERN.
“Mick”: When cutting bracken fern
always do it when the young fronds are in
the curl stage. Up till then all the nourish-
ment needed to develop them has been
taken from the roots, and continued cutting
at this stage will soon check the already
weakened plants. Once the leaves open they
begin to collect plant food and to store it
up in the roots for developmental purposes.
Late cutting carried out year after year
will be without result.
Another good way of dealing with bracken
is by the use of a smothering crop such as
subterranean clover. By this means here
in Tas. many hundreds of otherwise useless
acres, are. being made productive. The usual
practice is to cut the ferns and other rub-
bish, burn, and sow about 51b. sub., % bushel
cocksfoot and 1 to 2 cwt. super, in the ashes.
If preferred, the ground may be spring-
toothed and the seed and super, drilled in;
but on rough country this is not practicable
and broadcasting is necessary.
A Bulletin correspondent has drawn
attention to the fact that rolling is useful
in that the bruising of the fern crowns
checks their vigor. But rolling is expensive.
Heavy stocking on the feed supplied by the
sub. has the same effect, and the young
fronds are nipped off as well. Sheep are
best for grazing fern lands, as they bite
close and their sharp hooves bruise more
than cattle. A grass such as cocksfoot or
perennial rye should always be sown with
the sub. owing to the latter having such, a
short growing season, which is reaching its
end just when the ferns are .at their zenith.
The cocksfoot carries on until late autumn
in wet districts, and allows of the heavy
stocking so necessary in the eradication of
ferns. A man I know in northern Tas.
has not only reclaimed a lot of otherwise
useless land by adopting these measures,
but this year was able to shut a portion up,
cut a good crop of cocksfoot for seed, rake
up the sub. and thresh that as well. He
secured a total return of between £3O and
£35 per acre.
SCIENTIFIC BASIS OF ROTATION.
“Climax”: The first and most obvious
result of rotation of crops (say wheat,
rape, barley, clover) is the economy of
labor. Preparation for and sowing the seed
of different crops can be undertaken at
different times. But there are other reasons
not_ quite so obvious. Different crops have
their, own particular insect and fungoid
enemies. These will thrive if their hosts
are planted year after year in the same
soil, but if another class of crop is inter-
spersed they are automatically kept in
check—a further economy of labor as well
as an elimination of waste. Similarly the
toxins which are prone to collect in the soil
adjoining the roots of certain crops would
be harmful to a second crop of the same
nature, but have no deleterious effect on
a crop of a different kind.
Again, there is an economy of plant food,
for one thing because different crops will be
feeding from different layers of the soil.
Wheat is deep-rooted; rape and clover are
shallow-rooted. Then different crops are
partial to different constituents of the soil,
some making more use of the nitrogen and
others of the potash content. The greater
proportion of the plant substance, differing
slightly in different species, is water; of the
solid matter about five per cent, only is
taken from the soil, the remaining 95 per
cent, being obtained from the air. Now if the
proper constituents are not present in the
soil the plant is not able to avail itself
of the elements derived from the atmosphere.
The three most necessary plant foods are
nitrogen in one of its many compounds,
potash and phosphate. Of course, there is
an unlimited supply of nitrogen in the air,
but the plant cannot make use of it, whilst
it finds no difficulty in extracting the neces-
sary carbon dioxide, even though present
ip much smaller quantity. It is all a
question of chemical process. Nitrogen is
what is known as an inactive gas, but
carbon dioxide is readily dissociated into its
elements. Another most essential consti-
tuent of a good soil is its organic matter or
humus. The problem of the farmer is to
maintain a supply of these essentials in the
most economical manner without creating an
unavoidable surplus of any of them.
At one period in the cycle he grows
rape, which is afterwards eaten off and the
droppings of the stock are conserved in the
soil. Practically 100 . per cent of the nitro-
gen, phosphoric acid and potash present in
the food is recovered in the manure. This
means that for the period during which stock
were fed on this crop they were maintained
at the cost of the seed and the labor of
sowing it. Certainly the store of these soil
constituents has not been increased by the
process, but a crop has been grown and
harvested without any diminution.
At another stage in the cycle clover is
grown and subsequently ploughed in. This
operation not only returns to the soil what
has been extracted from it, but gives it
what it never had before, the 95 per cent,
of solid matter derived from the ga<ses of
the atmosphere. This green matter in its
decay is replenishing the supply of humus,
which gives character and life to the soil.
Naturally it also contains the constituents
of the plant, nitrogen, potash, phosphoric
acid, etc., and so forms a*n effective sub-
stitute for the natural manures which are
unprocurable on a sufficient scale on any
fair-sized farm.
The crop of clover has the additional
advantage of being able to increase the soil
percentage of nitrogen owing to its ability
to make use of the free nitrogen of the
air. It is thus an admirable predecessor for
the main wheat crop, .by its cultivation
leaving the soil in a better mechanical and
chemical condition for its successor.
DRAINAGE.
“Hop Scrub”: Drainage, whether natural
or artificial, is essential to successful agri-
culture, but it is more neglected than almost
any farm improvement. Drainage improves
the land. In the process the soil becomes
less subject to drought, being more suscep-
tible to beneficial aeration, with the result
that roots penetrate deeper and thus secure
a greater store of raw material for con-
version into plant food. Further, a drained
soil is a warm soil.
Even where drainage is attempted it is
not always done wisely. On small areas
with obvious slopes the farmer may work
out; a fairly satisfactory system by noting
the lie of the land and the movement of
water after rain. For the larger jobs a care-
ful survey is necessary. A surveyor works
on the system of “grid levels,” showing the
contour lines, highest and lowest points of
the paddock. The greatest,fall is secured by
running the drain at right angles to the con-
tour lines. A good fall must be given; two
inches per chain is a minimum.
The main drain should be parallel and the
laterals should enter them at an acute angle.
Depth and distance apart depend upon the
texture of the soil and the quantity of water
to be removed. They should be nearer the
surface in heavy soils and deeper in the lighter
ones, the range being from 2ft. Gin. to 4ft.
Drains made from stones or saplings have
their uses; open drains have no saving
graces. For permanent results tile drains are
recommended; sizes vary from 2Ht. to 4ft.
Main drains should not be less than 4ft. With
14-inch tiles and drains 42 feet apart 950
tiles _ will be required for an acre, figures
particularly applicable to work in orchards.
. Secure a suitable outlet, commence excava-
tion there and dig trenches as narrow as
possible. Give the pipes a close joint and
see that they are not displaced when filling
in.
MORE ABOUT BAMBOOS.
“Kalibionba”: I was delighted to read
“Hiroshi’s” encomium on the bamboo (B.
14/5/’3O). From food to houses and their
furniture; from beer to bridges and jetties;
from confectionery to water-barrels and
milking-buckets—there is hardly a line in
human life to which it is, not adaptable;
and in the living state it is'one of the most
exquisite ornaments of the earth. Unfor-
tunately, so far as I can learn, none of the
species most adapted for the southern half
of our continent are available for the would-
be planter.
Ghusquea aristata and C. andina grow
up almost to the limits of perpetual ice in
the high Andes. The Ringal and Thamor-
Kaptu bamboos of the Himalayas may be
seen in the spring lifting their 30-40 feet
of height out of the great snowfalls by which
they were levelled in the winter. These,
with Phyllostachys nigra, would be avail-
able for growth round about Kosciusko anu
Buffalo. Bendrocalamus strictus (100 ft.)
and B ambus a vulgaris (70ft.) could be
grown all over the continent, down to the
Southern Ocean- they are extremely, re-
sistant to drought. Bambusa vulgaris is
the species which ddminates the Brisbane
Botanic fc Gardens. I once gave a plant ot
this to a neighbor on the Upper. Murray,
where the thermometer often registers 1-1
degrees of frost. It flourished so vigorously
after a few years that he got alarmed and
grubbed it out.
We sorely need some kind of society for
the introduction and dissemination of such
vegetable masterpieces as the bamboos and
the palms—equally adapted to our climatic
conditions and equally neglected by profes-
sional nurserymen.
TRAINING THE TRAP-DOG.
“Lucium”: Apropos of training the trap-
dog, “Jamal” (B. 23/4/’3O) says any breed
will do. Now a good dog is no more trouble
and eats no more 'than a bad one, and is
easier to teach. The right class of dog for
the trapper is one which hunts by scent
and not by sight; for example, a retriever
or a spaniel. Second, it is always advis-
able to break-in the pup to traps before
taking him on the line. This can be done
by the use of a very old and weak trap.
Set the trap as usual and deliberately
walk past it in such a manner that the
following pup will step in. Being weak,
the trap won’t hurt him. It will not be
long before that pup will dodge any trap
set, whereas if taken on to the line he may
have a foot broken in a strong trap.
METAL WORKING TOOLS.
“Bert the Carpenter”: Farmers should
aim a<t getting the utmost possible service out
of the tools they use. First of all, take
files. The two varieties most needed are a
“bastard” for rough work and a “mill saw”
for chaffcutter-knives, circular saws, etc.
When new, fit each with a wooden handle
cut from an old hayfork handle, and clean
them, after using, with a sixpenny wire file-
brush. Never let oil or grease come in con-
tact with them, and hang them up in a rack
when not in use. Never put them into a
box where they can rub together—that
quickly ruins them.
When using a file, grip the wooden handle
in your right hand, the tip of the file between
thumb and forefinger of the left hand, and
use a steady stroke with firm pressure the
full length of the file. Lift it clear of the
work on the back stroke.
Next take the hacksaw. Get an adjustable
frame, so as to take different lengths of
blade. The best blade for general work is
the ten-inch with 14 teeth to the inch. Screw
the blade up taut, use a steady pressure,
cut with the full length of the blade, and
don’t saw fast —60 strokes to the minute is
about the right pace. Never put oil or
grease on the blade to make it cut better—it
won’t.
To keep drill bits in order a small
emery wheel is necessary—lss. will buy a
good one. Ask for a hard stone with a
medium grit, bolt the grinder firmly to the
bench, and turn fast with a light pressure
on the tool, dipping it in cold water at fre-
quent intervals to avoid drawing the tem-
per, Always grind the bits to exactly the
same level as when new, and avoid having
me lip longer than the other, as tnis makes
the bit cut a larger hole than it should.
Lubricate the bit with oil when in use.
A set of taps and dies can save a lot of
time on hurried repair jobs. When using
them, keep the cutters well lubricated, and if
either tap or die seems to stick, don’t turn
on—that’s the way teeth get broken. Turn
back for half a turn instead, then go on
again.
If you find a piece of steel is too hard to
work, heat it up to clear red heat, bury it
in a tin of slack lime or fine ashes, and
leave it overnight. Unless you’ve got hold
of a special steel it will be quite soft next
morning. Before filing castiron, use an old
file to remove the tough outer skin, and thus
avoid spoiling a good file.
Brand all your tools‘with distinctive file
cuts and centre punch dots, and keep ’em
in a cupboard with a lock on it. An old
packing-case makes a good one.
A SUBSTITUTE FOR ARSENIC.
“P. Aitch”: The discovery of a substitute
for the arsenical spray would be hailed as a
blessing by orehardists and market-gardeners.
Take the case of apples for export. It has
recently become necessary to wipe, wash or
brush each individual apple prior to pack-
ing so that the fruit will pass the English
standard of not more than one-hundredth
of a grain of arsenic to the pound. It is
easy to get most of the arsenic off the skin
by wiping, but the calyx and stem ends,
particularly the former, present a difficulty,
in that the fruit must not be bruised.
(Continued on page 25.)


HAR-DT'S
SF>A R IC LIJVG


Lubricate
your machinery
as you do your car
by tbe
TecalemiT
High Pressure System
TECALEMIT SERVICE STATIONS:
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., Mjy Street Perth
Cornell, Ltd., 122 Piri 6 Street Adelaide
Keep Bros. & Wood Pty., Ltd., Bateman Street Melbourne
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street Sydney
Martin, Wilson Bros., Ltd., 299 Adelaide Street Brisbane
Factory Representative: Mr. JAMES THORNELL, 312 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
TECALEMIT, LTD., Mitre House, Scrubbs Lane, London, N.W. 10., England.
There are seven
reasons why
Guinness
IS GOOD FOR YOU
No. 1
FOR
STRENGTH
Guinness builds
strong muscles
for sport —strong
nerves for those
under physical
strain. Famous
doctors say that
it is very valuable in cases of mental
or physical exhaustion.
The best proof is the test you make
for yourself. As you drink a glass of
Guinness you feel better at once —
you feel that it is putting strength
into you.
Try a Guinness every day with
your dinner. There can be no more
pleasant way of improving appetite,
digestion and general fitness.
N.B.—One pint of Guinness Foreign Extra Stout has a malt
carbohydrate content equal to one and a half pints of pure dairy milk.
GF/A/6w
SEYMOUR
EARTH AUGERS
The old methods of posthole
digging are laborious—a n d
costly. The “SEYMOUR”
Posthole Digger is made solely
for the purpose of speeding up
the digging of postholes. It
pays for itself on the first few
holes. We have sold these to
satisfied buyers all over Aus-
tralia.
3 in.
9/6
9/6
4in. sin.
9/6 9/6
7in. Bin.
10/3 11/3
9in. I Oin.
12/6 13/- each
Send for our
Latest Catalog.
Free on re-
quest.
:P1«
l
'
55.
MS'PKersoii'i)
Proprietary Limited
582-592 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
51-65 Bathurst Street, Sydney. 116-130 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
532 Murray Street, Perth.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
w
ESSENTIAL
ALEMITE
LUBRICANTS
AtEMITE
«W lis li ß*a»
•“Ml Witt Hill MMtt
“UlilMl UIIIIMHI
••••111 Hint IIH'U
• , **‘iiiiiiiiiii‘ , m*
•••Mi* mm iiMia
•‘••••miiuii******
“*» iiiiiiiii ttui*
•XillllHil iiiiiuhiii*
ALE MITE
Gear lubricant
JHiiiimnnuuiiii*
“‘Muni |llll|t ill * W 1 *
•"in ilium uhiiiw*
•'MUIIHII lIIIIIIMIMI
M 'Ul lIUIIIIIIIIH 111 *
alemite
Jtni UMcnt
aiemite
ttk,t*rPmma
Will keep your motor car operating
smoothly noiselessly, and will reduce
repair bills.
1— Chassis Lubricant
Practical and laboratory tests have proved it the
best. A solidified oil that contains no acids,
grit or other harmful substances—its lubricat.
ing efficiency is not impaired by temperatures
from 30 degrees below zero to 250 above.
2 Gear Lubricant
Made of the finest oils —sufficiently viscous to
prevent metal-to-metal contact tinder severest
conditions. This lubricant clings to gears but
does not drag.
3 Universal Joint Lubricant
A combination of mineral oils—contains no
foreign substance. It does not harden with age
or exposure and never works out of bearings.
4*7 Wheel Bearing Lubricant
r Made specially for use in the wheel hubs of cars
that require heavy lubricant. Especially suit-
able for lubricating front wheels of cars using
4-wheel brakes. Will not run out on brakes.
s—Water Pump Lubricant
Used for lubricating water pump bearings and
other bearings that contact with water. A
water-proof lubricant. Prevents leaks in
pumps and will not harm the water system.
Full particulars from
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH
Resident Manager
250 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following representatives;
Bennett & Wood, Ltd. . . . 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
Motor Supplies, Ltd. Brisbane
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd. 894 Hay Street, Perth
E.A.Machin & Co., Ltd., 535 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
Cornell Limited, 122PirieSt.,BoxG P.0.,496 E.Adelaide
ALEMITE CORPORATION, CHICAGO, U. S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT-Chicago
ALEMITE
K* AU B*2


=r-"TD
t)
=6
Jy %
' a S
Light, pliant and
enduring
For utmost flexibility and
comfort, the thick crepe
rubber sole of this Abbey
Golf Shoe is unsurpassed,
And there’s no risk of loss
of shape, because the rubber
is sewn to a stout leather
base which holds the upper
firm.
Neatly brogued. . . .low cut
at sides.... arched to avoid
instep strain. . . .the Abbey
Golf Shoe allows fullest
muscle freedom. Sports
shoes of this type outwear
all ordinary kinds. They
are resilient and cushion the
feet over the roughest going.
Order by post.
Both full and half-sizes are available in
medium and wide fitting’s. Specify width
and length and order, also, a tin of the
correct Abbey Preservative Polish (6d.),
or a cleaning outfit (2/6).
Brown Willow Calf,
50/-
Sports Catalogue post free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS?
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY
FPL" 179.
ŵ
Little Giant
Sash Support
A set for any size window
can be sent anywhere
for 5/-, post paid. So
strong, two (one on each
sash) will support a
pair of sash weighing
lGlb., or four a pair of
sash weighing 321 b.
Use Solid Frames,
stronger and less costly.
The Old
Window Prop
may be good enough
for the humpy,
but it’s out of place in the modern
country home. It is untidy, unsafe
and unnecessary.
No matter how far out back you may live,
you can now have the comfort and convenience
of box-frame (pulley and cord) windows, with-
out the expense, freight, difficulty of instal-
lation, or cost and trouble of renewal.
And no matter how near town your home,
it will pay you better to specify, instead of the
clumsy and perishable cords and weights, the
“Little Giant Sash Support.’’
Fit the LITTLE GIANT yourself
with a screwdriver.
• Write for particulars to the
AUSTRAL WINDOW CO.,
lO Bligh Street, Sydney.
Green
e
Seal
Remedy
■or ALL STOMACH WORMS
BLACK DISEASE & FLUKE
The One Remedy Cures All.
Contains Ice. Carbon Tetrachloride per scc. dose.
900 doses to the gallon; about five sheep treated
for about one penny.
INTER-STATE AGENTS:
New Zealand Loan and Merc. Agency, Rockhampton
N. S. Pixlcy Brisbane
Dalgety & Co Melbourne
Gollin & Co Adelaide
Gollin & Co Perth
King Lawless, Ltd Auckland, N.Z.
Manufactured by
SAYERS, ALLPORT PROP., LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Glass and Metal Syringes, holding scc. and acting as
Measure and Drenching Syringe, 10/6, post free.
Chandler
Ringiock Fencing
The Original
RINGLOCK FENCING.
D. & W. Chandler Ltd. pioneered
the manufacture of Ringiock Fenc-
ing in Australia, and this has now
superseded all other forms of farm-
fencing. Our Chandler Ringiock
Fencing is recognised as the strong-
est fencing on the market.
Chandler Ringiock Fencing is a
wonderful improvement on the ordi-
nary five- or six-line fence, as it
is a combination of droppers and
laterals. All the wires are crimped,
and the special Ringiock Knot is
formed around the cross wires, thus
making them absolutely non-slip-
pable. The fence is, therefore,
sheep- and cattle-proof.
Style RLS is an ideal sheep or farm
fence. The droppers are 12in.
apart. Five lines spaced from the
bottom 5,6, 7 and 8 inches apart
to a height of 26in. The top and
bottom wires are 10-gauge; the
three other laterals, droppers and
all ringiock knots are 12-gauge gal-
vanised-wire.
Prices:—
5/9
per chain for 5-chain
rolls.
£l9/15/-
per mile.
Special heavy Chandler Fencing (10-gauge
throughout). Prices for RLS are 6/3 per
chain for 5-chain rolls, or £22 per mile.
NOTE.——The prices quoted are
strictly cash with order.
We also stock Waratah “Hinged-
joint” Fencing. Send for particulars.
Send for list of the new REDUCED
Prices of other styles.
Manufactured at their Fence and Gate
Factory, Greeves Street, Fitzroy, by
D.gW. CHANDLER LTD.
FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY.
AND AT WARRNAMBOOL, BENDIGO.
HORSHAM, BALLARAT AND PORT-
LAND.
è
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY.
'ufor their
happiness
ENSURE the future hap-
piness of your little ones
by investing your surplus
funds in P.P. Bank DEPOSIT
CERTIFICATES. This is
undoubtedly the finest form
of insurance.
P.P. Bank Deposit Certificates
are safe, convenient, never below
par, and are issued for any
amount.
Write us for full particulars Or
consult our officers, free of
charge.
Have a Rank Account—Keep it Growing.
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 12 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London..
Then there is the possibility of contaminat-
ing the. soil with arsenical compounds, which
in process of time become soluble, especially
in acid soils. Such contamination has not
been proved in Australia, but certain U.S.A.
soils on which arsenicaLs have been used ex-
tensively have become unproductive. It has
been proved, however, that this trouble may
be avoided by keeping the soil slightly alka-
line with periodic dressings of lime.
An opinion is becoming prevalent that
certain oil emulsions will take the place of
arsenic compounds in the destruction and
control of the codlin grub. There is no
proof that oil sprays have any direct effect
on the pest. It has long been known that
they are useful as spreaders and to act
as protective colloids. Probably their main
effect is as a deterrent. The moth goes
by smell, and the oil film masks this and
bluffs the busy insect to seek fresh fields in
which to lay her eggs.
Results of overseas experimental work
aimed at finding a preparation toxic to
insects, non-poisonous to human beings and
not detrimental to the soil, suggest that
barium fluo-silicate may fill the bill. Used
as a spray at the rate of lib. to 50 gallons
of water, it has proved very effective as an
insecticide. Similar results were obtained
when the compound was dusted on at the
rate of 61b. per acre. Oil emulsions have
been used to increase adhesiveness but are
not essential. Overseas manufacturers are
now furnishing supplies, and as there is no
dearth of the raw material in Australia,
local manufacture at a,fair price should be
practicable. There would certainly be an
excellent market for a cheap spray that
would control the codlin. pest without risk
to producer or consumer.
INDIVIDUAL TREATMENT FOR
FRUIT TREES.
“Disc Harrow”: When pruning the
orchard, care must be taken that each tree
is treated on its merits. Trees vary as much
as human beings and respond in the same
way. Look all round each before starting,
to fix the general shape and size in your
mind. Some leaders may need cutting back
for symmetry, and others training up. A
well-pruned tree is easier to spray and
sets a more even crop of fruit.
In the case of trees which run to wood
coaxing and not forcing methods must be
employed. Sometimes such trees, in an
endeavor to bring them into bearing, are
left unpruned for two years in the early
stages. I have seen this method practised
with both apples and pears, and it merely
produced long, spindly leaders without affect-
ing the fruiting habits. The best remedy is
to leave a large number of leaders and sub-
leaders, carrying a thick growth of laterals.
These can be gradually eliminated as it
becomes possible. Hard cutting _ in an
attempt to produce small spurs straightway
will only accentuate the trouble. In particu-
larly stubborn cases cutting the tap-root
sometimes has a quietening effect, but before
I went to that length I would prefer to
plant a new tree. There are trees which
will never be any good. I kept some Bcurre
Bose pears 14 years before I woke up.
A further difficulty with the strong-grow-
ing tree is that the leaders have a ten-
dency to upright growth, in spite of con-
tinual cutting to an outside bud. Cutting
to an inside bud will produce a strong,
upright shoot inside, and a weaker one,
at a better angle, on the outside.
The sick tree, on the other hand, must
receive vigorous treatment. Cutting back
must be done; and in this .case do not err
on the side , of lightness. A glance will tell
if there is a healthy shoot, worth cutting
to; if not, bring the saw into play. A tree
cut back timidly year after year dies gradu-
ally all the time, whereas one treated pro-
perly at the commencement will either take
a new lease of life or give unmistakable
.notice of its intentions. Ground is too valu-
able to carry passengers.
In all cases remember that you are acting
as traffic policeman to the sap. On the
channels into which you turn it depend your
crops.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
{Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Can lucerne be grown in sandy soil?
(2) Does the seed have to be sown two years
in succession before a crop is obtained? (3)
A good book on lucerne? —6442.
(1) Yes, if the soil contains a fair pro-
portion of plant food and humus. Thin
planting in drills is advisable to allow for
individual plant development. (2) No. one
planting will suffice. (3) “Book of Alfalfa,”
published by Orange Judd Co.
(1) Is cane grown on the Atherton Table-
land ( N.Q.) ? (2) What is the average area
required, to keep one cow? (3) Average
gross yield in cash value of a cow fed on
cane fodder on Atherton Tableland? —63B7.
(1) Yes, to a very limited extent. (2)
Scrub lands under paspalum and rhodes will
carry 1 cow'to 1 to 1-J acres on the Atherton
Tableland. (3) Depends on the quality of
the animal.
Is seaweed of value as a manure? —66o3.
When fresh it has a fertilising value some-
what lower than that of farmyard manure,
but its large content of water prevents its
economical carriage in a fresh state to any
distance. The ash contains a considerable
quantity of fertilising materials, potash and
phosphoric acid, and in some cases it may
be found economical to utilise seaweed in
this form. The nitrogenous matter is, of
course, lost by burning. The ash is richer in
fertilising substances than wood-ashes, the
potash content varying from 4 to 20 per cent.
(1) Would it be cheaper to icorlc a farm
tractor on suction gas than on crude oil?
(2) Cost of additional machinery in case of
a McCormack-Deering tractor? (3) Wood
or charcoal? (4) Has it been tried success-
fully?—CASS.
(1) and (4) Unless a tractor is provided
with a special engine of sufficient volumetric
capacity to enable .it to compensate for loss
of power,' a kerosene-operated tractor con-
verted to use producer-gas would not be as
economical to operate as a similar-powered
Diesel-engined tractor. With a specially
designed producer-gas tractor of equal power
to a Diesel-engined tractor, and where far-
mers are in a position to prepare tlieir own
charcoal, the producer-gas tractor should be
cheaper to operate. (2) Should not exceed
£llO, but the equipment has to be specially
designed to suit the tractor to which it is
applied, and we have no knowledge of any
attempt yet made to adapt it to the McCor-
maek-Deering. (3) Wood can be used but is
not so generally favored as charcoal.
How to eradicate a patch of blady grass?
—6213.
Ploughing is the best method. Use strong
English type harrows or drag harrows for
collecting the grass roots, which should be
burnt. Burn off the standing grass before
ploughing up the affected patches. Introduce
some smothering grass like paspalum or
kikuyu to take the place of the blady.
(1) What is the method of combating
borer in citrus trees? (2) Treatment for
citrus trees that have a white fungus scale
on them? (3) Method of keeping black
ants from them? (4) Do the ants do much
harm? —5723.
(1) The branch in which the borer is
working should be cut off just below where
the insect is, and destroyed. Where one or
more limbs or even the main trunk of the
tree are ringbarked, painting or spraying the
trunk, fork and main stems of the tree with
a lime and sulphur wash will prevent the
beetles from laying their eggs, and thus pro-
tect the tree from being damaged. (2) The
trouble is probably white louse, which goes
down quickly under an application of lime-
sulphur. It also succumbs readily to cyanide
fumes and plain soda solution. In the rare
instances where white wax obtains a footing,
the soda wash is also efficient. (3) and (4)
They do no harm and it is unnecessary to
control them. Get pamphlets “Destruction of
Fruit and Vegetable Pests” and “Citrus Cul-
ture” from Dept, of Agriculture, Brisbane.
(1) How to tell the sex of chickens when
they are about four to six weeks old? (2)
llow to prevent liens from eating eygs?> —
6478. , „
(1) In the ease of leghorns the comb of
the male bird shoots earlier than that of the
pullets; in the heavy breeds the head* is
somewhat thicker in the male birds than
in the pullets. (2) Adequate nesting should
be provided so that breakages may not occur.
Place an egg in the yard and watch it for
a while. In this way the culprits can be
identified, and they should be eliminated
from the flock.
(1) When and where will the N.S.W.
Agricultural Dept, conduct its next short-
course school for poultry-farmers? (2) Fees
and travelling concessions (if any)? (3)
Qualifications for enrolment? —6625.
(1) July 1 to 18 this year, at Hawkesbury
Ag. Coll., Richmond. (2) Fee for course
£3 10s., including board and lodging. Reduc-
tion of rail fares is conceded. (3) Only
qualification is that students must be over
16 years of age. Write to the Under Secre-
tary, Dept, of Agriculture, Sydney, for syl-
labus. .
(1) Which churns more readily, high or
low testing cream? (2) How to protect a
grade Ayrshire cow whose skin cracks? —
6786.
(1) High testing, but the difference is not
so marked as those caused by variations in
temperature and acidity. (2) Keep her out
of the sun and dust on flowers of sulphur
with a*n insect-powder blower.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Valeria”: Where large flocks of sheep
are hand-fed it will pay to keep a man to
follow up the feed waggon, picking up the
weaker sheep that get knocked over in the
rush. If they are left for any length of
time the cold or the crows will get them.
“Wrash”: When jumbucks have only a
few teeth left it is wise to pull the things
out. Gummy sheep always do better than
broken-mouths.
“Wescocky”: Many farmers plough and
cultivate once or twice and say “That’s
fallow.” Fallow it is not. Unless the sur-
face crust is broken every time it forms the
resulting loss of moisture and nitrification
makes the whole working unprofitable. The
problem in Westralia to-day is not to get
farmers to plough (they do that), but to
get them to keep that crust broken after
heavy rains.
“R.8.D.”: For newehum trappers: (1)
Set close to the mouth of the burrow. (2)
Never set on an incline in a burrow with
the spring facing up. (3) Set on buekheaps
in the open if kittens are numerous. Kittens
never wander far from the burrows.
“Disc Harrow”: When considering the
purchase of land, especially if it is to be
planted as an orchard, take an opportunity
of inspecting it on a wet day. A careful
look-over will afford a lot of information
about slopes and drainage, and help in
deciding layout and position of dams and
headlands. Any waterlogged spots will also
be revealed.
“Jack Point”: When an orchardist is wor-
ried by white-ants he should call in the
assistance of the chickens. There is not a
titbit known which fowls, and especially
young chickens, relish as much.
“Thorley”: A handy ladder can be con-
structed from three long side pieces from a
galvanised-iron case. Two are spaced about
2ft. 3in. apart a-t one end, nearly meeting
at the other; the inner faces are bevelled so
that a similar piece laid between these faces
will fit snugly, with the other end equally
distant from both legs. A bolt through
the three makes a secure job for the top;
pieces nailed on form the rungs. With a
piece at the bottom and another half-w T ay up
on the opposite side you have a rigid ladder
that is also light to handle.
“Concrete”: When the late tomatoes are
fully developed pull a whole vine up and hang
it up by the roots in some dry shed till they
ripen. ' Another good dodge is to cut the
fruit, with a small section of stem to stop
sap loss or bleeding, and spread on wire
trays in a dark room. Allow up fruit to
touch and see that the air can get right
around them. Throw out any that shrivel or
show signs of decay.
“Otnim”: You can’t beat the autumn for
planting trees for shade, shelter belts or
breakwind. Open up the holes as big as you
like and tip rubbish into them, with a
liberal, supply of old manure. Don’t forget
a stout stake, to tie the youngster to, as the
winds of winter will twist him about. For
a line of trees a post each end. until sap-
lings or wire to strap them to, is best.


Our Service Department
This page is sot apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
Headers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
„, Tr le , rfeht of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell’’’ or ‘‘To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Energetic, sober married man wanted for share-
fanning venture, Mount Garnet (N.Q.). Cotton,
tobacco, peanuts and broom millet. Land (65 acres),
horses and implements found.—6632.
Returned soldier (39), married, Queensland ex-
lighthouse keeper, wants job as caretaker or watch-
man. Refs.—67lB.
Lady, qualified accountant, exp., just returned
from England, seeks position any State.—67l7.
By English married couple, position on station,
anywhere. Man cook, baker, useful; wife house-
maid, cook, laundress. Previous exp. Refs.—67ls.
man, Sydney (LL.B.), will coach students
for leaving certificate or in law, afternoon or even-
ing.—67ol.
Experienced nurse, babies or children, seeks posi-
tion, Sydney. Refs.—67oo.
Young man, single,-four years’ exp. Fiji plantation,
wants job as overseer in Islands. Refs.—67o3.
Two girls, Queensland grazier’s daughters, desire
positions as nursery governesses or companions. Go
anywhere.—6674*
Electrician (40), abstainer, married, wants job
anywhere in Vic. Ten years’ exp.’ —6679.
Engineer (38), married, 20 years’ North Aus.
and Island exp., knowledge of millwright’s and con-
crete work, wants job in tropics.—66 Bo.:
Returned soldier (Q.), motor mechanic,' exp. wind-
mills, tractors, electricity, wife can teach French,
wants job station or Islands.—667l.
\ oung married man, Vic., salesman with grocery
and clerical exp., wants j0b.—r6649.
Young man, Sydney, journalistic, advertising and
publishing exp., fair legal knowledge, w'ants secre-
tariat position or literary work.; —6648.
Young man (N.S.W.), carpenter and handy, own
tools, used to station work, wants job anywhere.
- 6645.
Man (27), single, Uni. education, R.M.C. gradu-
ate, wants job as salesman anywhere.—664o.
To get in touch with owners or patentees of
meat-preserving process tried at Orange (N.S.W.)
years ag0.—6635.
Words of song “The Man Who Broke the Bank
at Monte Car10.”—6661.
Words of songs “Three O’clock in the Morning”
and. “My Isle of Golden Dreams.”—6623.
Reading matter wanted by lighthouse keeper,
Queensland.—6676.
To buy Morton’s “Man and the Devil” (1922),
O’Reilly’s ' “Fivecorners” (1920), Lawson’s “Joseph’s
Dreams” (1923) and “Auld Shop and the New”
(1923), also the “Sydney Gazette” (any numbers).
—6686.
To buy radio set, receive all Australian stations,
or exchange Remington portable typewriter.—667s.
To buy Wraight’s “Theory and Practice of Assay-
ing.’’—6639.
Information Sought.
(1) Can I be articled to a solicitor though
I spend only occasional hours with him and
conduct another business? (2) Would it be
necessary to go to Sydney for examinations?
(3) Minimum time within which I could
qualify? (4) Approximate cost? —-6264.
(1) No. You cannot be articled nominally.
You must learn the business in the solicitor’s
office during office hours. (2) Yes. (3) If
you have matriculated, five years. (4) The
fees/ would in an average ca«se be about £2O.
(1) What are the commercial prospects
of oyster culture in N.S.W.? (2) Are Gov-
ernment leases available? (3) What is con-
sidered a living area? (4) Rental? (5)
Capital required to start in a small way?
(6) How long before a return could be
expected? (7) Any extra labor required to
work lease? —64o2.
(1) Fair. (2) Only small areas of “in-
ferior lands.” Information can be obtained
from the Fisheries Inspector iu charge of
the district where it is proposed to obtain
leases. (3) It is possible to make a living
off 500 yards of first-class oyster-bearing
foreshore, or two acres of offshore land. Area
needed depends on productive quality. (4)
From ss. to 40s. p.a. per 100 yards of fore-
shore or per acre of offshore area. (5) Can-
not be estimated, even approximately, with-
out knowledge of the water which it is
proposed to work. (6) In a good district
a return may be expected off virgin land
in from 2£ to 3 years. (7) In many cases
oyster lessees are working fairly large hold-
ings without employment of labor. ~
In what country did the custom of honor-
ing the Unknown 1 Soldier start, and what
exactly does the Unknown Soldier signify?
—6492.
France. He is regarded as a symbol of
all soldiers who died for their country.
The exterior walls of my pise house are
crumbling. They are dotted with numerous
holep, and „in many - cases these are sur-
rounded by a network of smaller holes like
a honeycomb. Cause of holes, and how to
repair? The walls were painted when
erected four years ago. —@4Bs.
The. pitting is due either to imperfect
pise-making or unsuitable material. Mix five
parts of good sharp pit sand with one part
cement, using enough water to make a thick
paste. Go over all the holes and perished
parts with this, and fill them up as well
as possible. When this is dry give the
whole wall a coat of the same mixture
applied with a plasterer’s rubber.
How to get rid of a grub that has taken
up his abode in the heart of my silver
wattle? About three feet from the ground
if has bored in and up. —6425.
Probe the hole with a flexible wire until
the grub is killed, first picking out the frass
that it leaves behind it. If the grub is out
of reach a teaspoonful of carbon tetra-
chloride, kerosene or petrol should' be in-
jected into the hole and the entrance tightly
stopped with putty.
(1) To avoid baching a car along an
awkward ‘path from a garage to the street,
would a turntable be practicable? (2) Any-
thing suitable on the market? —6443.
(1) Yes. (2) Several different styles are
obtainable. Try Gregory and Go., Clarence-
street, Sydney, or Barlow and Co., Augustus-
street, Leichhardt.
When will there be a call for recruits for
the Artillery Force, Victoria Barracks,
Sydney? —6333.
Vacancies are advertised as they occur.
There are no set periods of recruiting.
(1) Length, of agriculture course at Syd-
ney XJni.? (2) Length of medical course?
(3) Approximate cost, apart from living
expenses, to complete either? (4) Where
to obtain particulars? —6462.
(1) Four years. , .(2) Six years. (31
Agriculture, £140; medicine. £3OO. (4)
Consult University Calendar, obtainable from
the Registrar at a .cost of 3s. 4d.
(1) What is the coloring of the Austra-
lian warbling magpie? Has it grey feathers
on the back or shoulders? (2) How to pre-
serve prawns for bait? —64o9.
(1) Young magpies are to a great extent
grey and. white in color, the grey represent-
ing the black of the adult. The adult male
is black and white, but the female has some
grey .on the part between the back and the
neck and on the lower rump; the rest of
the plumage is like that of the male. (2)
Two parts:sugar to one part salt; put on
dry after removing'heads of prawns. Seal
in preserving jars. Ingredients form pickle
in which prawns last indefinitely.
(1 ) Occupations of the Australian cricketers
now in England? (2) Are any of them
xoealthy men? —6s76.
(1) Woodfull, schoolteacher; Richardson
and Hurwood, motor salesmen; Bradman
and Fairfax, sports goods salesmen; Grim-
mett, cricket coach; a’Beckett, Uni. student;
Hornibroolc, dentist; Ponsford, journalist;
McCabe, Walker and Wall, clerks; Jackson,
Kippax and Oldfield, sporting goods mer-
chants. (2) No.
What is the extent of Australian coal
reserves ( figures for each State ) ?—6568.
N.S.W., actual, 20,000 million tons,
with a probable 100,000 million tons
additional. Vic., 25 million tons black and
10,400 million tons brown; probable addi-
tional reserves “apparently not large.”
Q’land, actual, 412 million tons; probable
additional, 13,000 million tons. S.A.,
actual, 50 million tons brown; additional
reserves “fairly large, no estimate.” W.A.,
combined actual and probable reserves,
3500 million tons. Tas., actual, 125 million
tons; pi’obable additional, 123 million tons.
(1) What does the' long-snouted honey
mouse look like? (2) Where is he to be
found? (3) What does he eat?— 66o4.
(1) The head and . body are Sin. long; the
tail 4in. The short coarse fur is grey above,
striped with black or brown, and yellowish-
white below. The head is long and narrow,
with an elongated . muzzle. (2) South-wes-
tei'n Australia. (3) Chiefly honey and
soft-bodied insects.
My 12-months-old cockatoo, fed on cocky
seed, thistles, etc., has lost nearly all its
feathers, which seem, to rot in the (mill, It,
is otherwise healthy. Any cure?— 6343.
May be due to cold, in which case it will
come right in the summer, or if the bird is
kept in a warm place. A moderate tem-
perature, free bathing facilities, with a dust-
ing of flowers of sulphur to a little soft
food three times a week for a month, and
on the intermediate days as much chlorate
of potash as will cover a threepenny-piece
in each two teaspoons of drinking water,
are recommended. There is a possibility
that the baldness is due to red mite, in which
case fumigate and pay strict attention to
cleanliness.
(1) What goods do we import from Japan
and value? (2) Value and class of goods
exported to Japan? —66lo.
(1) Total imports of Japanese origin for
year ending June 30, 1929, £4,707.299.
Biggest item was silk textiles, £3.024,463.
(2) Total exports to Japan, £11,518,986.
Chief items were wool, £8,693,195; wheat,
£1,353,874.
I have engaged two men to ringbark by
contract. Have I to insure; them under the
N.S.W. Compensation Act? —6sl4.
No; a contractor who is not coiltrolled by
the person for -whom .he, is performing the
work as to the manner in which he performs
it is not a “worker” .within the meaning of
the Act.
(1) When an application is mode to a
Judge in Chambers by, an executor of an
estate for an order to sell, is any record
taken of oral evidence, given by ..parties con-
cerned, and, can a beneficiary get a copy of
such, records and Judge’s notes? (2) Can a
solicitor, without instructions from his client,
accept deeds and documents belonging to the
client and thcii refuse ‘to hand’ them, over?
(3) Can he without the client’s instructions,
knoxcledge or consent sign transfers of pro-
perties in his client’s name? (4) Is there
any N.S.W. Government department where
legale advice can be had? (5) Can a barrister’s
opinion be obtained without a solicitor as
intermediary? —636S.
(1) You may apply to the Judge’s asso-
ciate for a< copy of any notes the Judge may
have made. (2) A solicitor is, in ordinary
circumstances, bound to restore documents
to the person from whom he received them.
(3) He must act within his instructions.
(4) There is a Legal Aid Department, but
its services are limited to persons unable
to pay for legal advice. (5) Technically
yes, but it is an established practice for all
such matters to come to a barrister through
a solicitor.
(1) The award wage for shop assistants
and carters at Murwillumbah (N.S.W.) ?
(2) Is the shop assistant entitled to a fort-
night’s holiday each year on full pan? —
G 504.
(1) Male shop assistant, aged .21, 85s.
6d.; aged 22, 90s. 6d.; 23 and over, 100 s.
per week. Driver of one horse 91s. 6d. per
week, with additional pay where more than
one horse is driven. (2) No. One week.
(1) A contractor builds a house for £6OO.
He is paid £3OO, and the owner owes him
£3OO. There is no agreement.- Can the. con-
tractor charge interest on the amount owing,
and, later on, compound interest? (2) Can
a merchant charge me interest and later on
compound interest on money owing for goods
supplied?— 67ll.
(1) The law does not imply a contract by
the debtor to pay interest unless such is the
usage of trade, but the creditor may, from
t' lc time a. written demand for payment is
uiaae by him, charge interest on the unpaid
balance on notice to the debtor of. his inten-
tion to do so. (2) There is no authority for
compound interest.
(1) What is the height and girth of Aus-
traha s largest tree, and what kind is it? (2)
Has America a larger tree, and, if so, what
kind. (3) What kind of eucalypts home
been taken from Australia and grown in
America? Have any of them attained great
size? (4) Is . the sequoia a softwood? —
6572.
(1) Eucalyptus regnans (Alpine ash) of
V ictoria is reputed to be the largest tree,
but records are not reliable.. (2) The giant
r ~ d !™ od is sai d t 0 be larger. (3) Dozens
ot different species have been planted there,
but authentic measurements are not avail-
able. (4) Yes.
Is there a market for the leaves of icild
parsley or parsley fern? What are their
uses? What type of leaves sells best and
who are likely buy ess? —6ss2.
There used to be a market for broad
aud a few years ago E. Silberberg,
liO Clarence-street, A. Fraser, 139<York-
street, _ and H. Berry, 54 Cariisle-street,
Ashfield—all of Sydney—were buyers.
, (1 ) A man (7V.S.TP.) has owed me money
for over five years. Can I take proceedings
noio for recovery? (2) Can bankrupt'd)
proceedings be ■ taken in N.S.W. if the
amount in question is under £5Of —6667.
(1) Yes. The time limit is six years.
(2) No; £5O is the limit.
If I have a balance of £2 in the bank and
draw a cheque for £3 am I liable to prosecu-
tion for passing a valueless cheque? —66s7.
It has been held that if at person obtains
goods_ by a cheque knowing that he has an
insufficient balance at the bank, knowing
also that he has no power to overdraw liis
account, and not intending to pay, he is
guilty of obtaining the goods by a false
pretence.
(1) How is it decided that a cricket match
is drawn, won on first innings, icon out-
right, etc,? (2) Why is it necessary in
playing tennis to drive the ball to the i back
of the court (around about the base line)
to make the drive of proper length? —647o.
(1) The side which scores the greatest
number of runs wins the match, but no match
is. won save when played out or given up,
with an exception as provided by rule 45.
This empowers umpires to allow players
two minutes each to come in, and' 10
minutes’ interval between the innings. When
the umpire has called “play,” the side
refusing to continue loses the match. (2)
It is not necessary, though the trajectory
of a hard drive just over the net naturally
lands it well down the court. .
In winter the sun does not reach parts
of my buffalo grass lawn. Recently I top-
dressed it, and all but the shaded parts
responded. How can. I promote growth on
those parts?—Af s69. - ' ' • :
Plant kikuyu grass on the bare patches.
. What is manna? Is it procurable in Aus-
tralia and from' what trees? Does it
resemble the manna of the , Holy Land? —
6305. . : :
As understood* in Australia it is a creamy
sweet-tasting substance that exudes from
the bark of various eucalypts or gum-trees.
The manna of the Holy Land is a sweet
exudation that comes in hot weather after
rains from the tamarisk trees.
(1) If an unstamped receipt for over £2
is given, who is liable under the law, the
giver of the receipt or the receiver, or both?
(2) ,Are stamped receipts necessary for cash
sales of £2 and over? —6Bo9.
(1) The giver. (2) Yes.
What are the seasons and districts for
fruit- and hop-picking in N.S.W.? —6529.
■Cherry-picking is carried on in the Young
and Orange districts during November and
December, and in the irrigation areas fruit-
picking is carried on more or less throughout
the year, but the rush periods are from
December till March. Hops are not grown
to any extent in N.S.W.
What arc the most common trees of Vic-
toria? —6546.
Eucalypts are predominant, the most
common being Messmate (E. * obliqua),
Brown Stringybark (E. capitellata), White
Stringybark (E. eugenioides) and Red
Stringybark ( E. macrorrhyncha) in this
order. .In the highlands large stands of
white mountain ash (E. regnans) and red
mountain ash (E. gigantea) are found,
whilst along the river banks the river red
gum (E. rostrata) predominates. In addi-
tion to these, large quantities of black,
golden and silver wattle are scattered
throughout the State!
(1) Who designed the Sydney Harbor
bridge? (2) What is the weight of steel in
the arch? (3) Is it the longest single-span
arch bridge in the world? —6850.
. (1) Dr. J. ,T. C. Bradfield, chief engineer
of the bridge, an officer of the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment, projected the general plan. Details
wore drafted by Lawrence Ennis, director
of construction for Dorman, Long and Co.,
the contractors. (2) About 27,000 tons.
(3) A longer one-arch bridge is in the pre-
liminary stages over one of the seaways of
the port of New York.
Brief Answers.
Choom: (1) and (2) Costs allowable
would include court costs and a fee for appearance,
but not preliminary costs as between solicitor
and client. (3) (4) and (. r >) The charge seems
disproportionate. Get a detailed statement, and
if dissatisfied consult Taxing Officer, Supreme
Court.... S.T.S.: (1) The husband could contest
the will on the ground of testator’s mental in-
capacity. It would be difficult and costly to
prove the claim. (2) In N.S.W. a husband left by
the wife’s ■ will without adequate provision for his
maintenance may apply to the Court to have such
maintenance made out of the estate. . . .S.F.L.:
Neither ‘is • exempt from Federal and State income
tax.... J.M.No chance of song manuscripts or
lyrics without music being accepted for publication
locally, -and no market for theme songs here,...
R.N.K.:' Communicate with A.C.F. and Shirley’s
Fertilisers, Ltd., Roma-street, and Gibbs, Bright
and Co., Queen-street —both Brisbane. Price in
truck lots, f.0.r., £.6 per ton for high-grade quality.
. ...W.L.V.: Boonderoo (“stony country’’), boorong
(“big rock”), barrabarroo (“very large stones”),
mclong (“all rocks”), wallabadah (“.stone”), yarral-
dool (“lots of stone”). . . .C.J.M.L.: Elocution cannot
be satisfactorily learned without the help of a quali-
fied teacher: If the boy is learning music his teacher
should include exercises in aural training in his
lessons: ’ ! tfo textbook can be recommended
J.R.: Apply to Superintendent of Telegraphs, G.P.0.,
Sydney. Annual cost for cables, telegrams and
wifeless messages, £2 25.; for cables alone, 10s. fid.
f.A.M.R.: Dry-blowing patches in W.A. have
been gone over many times, and are still being
worked here and there with inconsiderable results... .
F.W.T.: “The Pocket Oxford Dictionary” (ss. Id.,
posted), Angus, and Robertson, Sydney... .A. A.P.:
Abel, Lemon and Co., 94 Harrington-street; James
Hardic Trading Co., 378 Kent-street; Craig, Mostyn
and 'Co., Reiby-place—all Sydney.... 11.D.C.: The
“Golden Arrow” will be on view at the Brisbane
Exhibition. .. .F.G.W.: (1) and (4) Get pam-
phlets., on .tobacco-growing from Department of
Agriculture, Sydney. (2) and (3) Consult
Tobacco . Expert, Department of Agriculture,
Melbourne. . . .N.C.: The prohibition against
the exportation of metals from Australia with-
out the consent of the Minister for Customs was
revoked October 13, 1927. .. .R. 8.: Hayles Magnetic
Island, Ltd., receives an annual subsidy of £2OOO
for delivery of mails from Cairns to Cooktown, via
Port Douglas... .F.L.T.: Damping-off can be cheeked
by application of 2oz. powdered bluestone mixed
thoroughly with lloz. powdered rock ammonia. This
stock mixture should be kept in a stoppered bottle
and dissolved in water at the rate of loz. to two
gallons. The solution can be held in wooden or
copper vessels only P.L.G.: The Hereward was
stranded on Maroubra Beach (Sydney), May 6, 1898.
No lives were lost. She was refloated later, but
went on the rocks, where she broke up... .E.R.A.:
The bird popularly known as the “scissors-grinder”
is known to ornithologists as the “restless fly-
catcher.” It closely resembles the wagtail, but has
no black on its throat. .. .W.N.J.: White Stone and
Nepaul appear to be the best varieties of turnips
for table use. Orange Jelly is of good quality blit
a somewhat light cropper... .C.8.T.: Make applica-
tion to the various fire and accident cos W.E.E.:
The reduction Of pilotage dues has not yet been
sanctioned, and, if it is, the relief will be so infini-
tesimal that a reduction of freights is most unlikely.
... .C.8.T.: The Bulletin has always been a
Sydney publication. It first appeared January 31,
1880. For history, see copy of Jubilee number
(29/l/’3O). . . .F.A.: On the ground that it was
an obscene publication... .A.S.R.: Not prescribed to
patients, but when taken by them surreptitiously
has done neither harm nor good. Local practi-
tioners and institutions have not used it since
receipt of discouraging reports from England....
E.K.: Pacific and Ross Sea Whaling Co., 395 Collins-
street, Melbourne.. . .C.G.: Get in touch with Cowles
and Dunn, 453 Kent-street, Sydney... .R.0.L.: There
are numerous phosphorus preparations for poisoning
vermin. Particularly amongst inflammable
material the use of this poison is attended with
danger... .F.M.M.: See “Restoration of Apostles
and Prophets,” “Readings on the Liturgy,” “The
Church and Tabernacle,” all by R. N. Bos-
worth,' and . “History .and Doctrines of. Irvingism,”
by -G. Miller, .IA.E.A. (and others) : The report
that the “Daily Mail,” London, was .offering £lOOO
for an old English musk plant has been denied by
the- journal concerned; . ’., A.J.G.: The Dairy Branch,
Department of Agriculture, Sydney, will supply
advice and literature,. . . J.W.: Amendment .of rules
may be effected in accordance with ’Sections 3 (2)'
and 16 and Forms 3 and 4 of Regulation 8 of the
Queensland Primary . Producers’ , Co-operative Associ-
ations Acts (1923-26).. :. .L.A.T.: (1) No. (2) No.
(3) Yes, ...J.T.: Rock salt quotations have not
fluctuated to any : great. extent;. the", price quoted,
ex-ship, to-day is 7s: -6d. per ton lower than three
years ag0....E.G.: Apparently the partnership
could be dissolved at will. In order to upset the
dissolution it would be necessary to show that it was
made suddenly, in bad faith, and would work irrepar-
able injury to the outgoing partner. A Court of
Equity would consider the circumstances... .E.J.W.:
You may borrow on it if you can find anyone
prepared to accept it as security. Probably only a
professional moneylender would advance on it and
then only a comparatively small sum at a high rate
of interest. .. .H.P.: Communicate with the Assistant
Paymaster-General, Whitehall S.W.l,' London. Un-
less you can furnish more details, dates, etc., than
your letter discloses, you will have difficulty in trac-
ing the property... .H.M.: You can, after making
written demand for the return of the' traces within
a stated time and his failure to'comply, proceed
against him for illegal detention of your property.
. ...M.D.: An owner of land would be liable in
damages if he diverted the flow of water on his own
land from its natural course in. such a way as to
injure his neighbor’s property... .J.H.D.: No cousin-
ship of the full blood. Even if there were, there
is no legal impediment to their marriage....
J.H.W.: He can be sued for the balance,'as ; appa-
rently, the indebtedness has been kept, alive by pay-
ment of instalments... .F.R.IC.: You signed the
agreement without having read, it, as you should
have done, and cannot now repudiate it. You are
legally liable for the interest you agreed to ■ pay.
H.J.S.: You are not a party to the purchase
agreement between your landlord and the vendor and
the latter cannot seize your effects because of default
in payment of instalments by your landlord
M.S.: Half the estate will go to the widow, the
remaining half being divisible among the next of
kin. If the sister is the sole next of kin, it will go
to - her T.M.: You have no ground for at
criminal charge. Solicitor’s advice is good
R.E.: The first Federation referendum was
taken in N.S.W., Vic. and Tas. on June
3 • in S.A. •on June 4, 1898. The . second
referendum, in S.A.' on April 29 ; N.S.W., June 20:
Vic. and Tas., July 27; Queensland, September 2,.,
1899. Westralia' took its only referendum, on July
31, 1900. ... (Many others mailed.)


?HGIST
R
trade
» -g
g|\j£jL Af^jj\
« > #
I M
R. Jrl- JL Jf. .:
* *r
- •*
i fgaHHB
-!
P
Made and Guaranteed by the Auto Strop Safety Razor
Company, Ltd., i97-2G7, City Road, London, England.
New shaped holes allow seventeen per
cent, extra weight giving ‘hollow ground’
rigidity for first time with two-edged
safety blade. Manufactured from one
long ribbon of steel; ground, honed,
finished in one single continuous opera-
tion —so that every blade MUST have
the same perfect edge, Probak blades
fit two-edged safety razors. Sold every-
where at fixed prices —2- the small
packet, 4/- the large.
wonderful invention in
new two-edged safety
blade • made in
the ribbon there-
fore uniform in
quality«buy
PROBAK
BLADES
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181, CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
New Zealand Agents ? VAN STAVEREN BROTHERS, LTD., Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch.
m
THE SUNTYNE
COMBINED GRAIN AND FERTILISER DRILL
AND SPRING TYNE CULTIVATOR.
8 Row 17 Tynes Cultivates sft. 16 Row 33 Tynes Cultivates 9j|ft.
12 Row 25 Tynes Cultivates 74ft. 20 Row 41 Tynes Cultivates 12ft.
14 Row 29 Tynes Cultivates Bj|ft. 24 Row 49 Tynes Cultivates 14ft.
THE SUNTYNE LEADS IN POPULARITY BECAUSE:
The Cultivating Points compact the seed bed and cover it with a mulch of
thoroughly pulverised soil.
The seed with fertiliser is sown on the level compacted seed bed, and secures
full advantage from the stored moisture in the soil.
It will cultivate and sow as shallow or as deep as desired.
Flexible Floats save the tynes and ensure uniform cultivation.
The All-steel Lid keeps seed and super, perfectly dry.
Forward Lever and Hitch for tractor working available at small extra cost.
Illustrated Catalogue, Prices and Terms will be posted free on request.
THE SUNDERCUT
STUMP JUMP DISC CULTIVATING PLOUGH
10-Disc si-e cultivates sft. 14-Disc size cultivates 7ft.
THE MOST WIDELY-USED DISC IMPLEMENT IN AUSTRALIA.
Unequalled for ploughing in stubble and for dealing with heavy weed growth,
Paddymelon, Stinkwort, etc. Also works well in rough country and in virgin
Mallee Lands. Cultivates to a depth of four inches.
Alternate 20-inch and 18-inch discs, set with undercut, cut to a uniform depth
and leave a granular tilth ideal for moisture catchment and conservation.
Cultivates more soil per horse-power used than does any other disc implement.
Differential Cog Jump operates without increasing draught. Tractor Levers
supplied in lieu of team levers at small extra cost.
illustrated Pamphlet, Prices and Terms will be posted free on request.
biM
m
m
SOLE MANUFACTURERS;
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE, AUSTRALIA
BRANCHES:
664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne. 27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide. Cr. Murray and King Streets, Perth.
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
H. V. McKAY (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
Ask for General Illustrated Catalogue oj all Sunshine manufactures.


.. New Zealand's
Daintiest Delicacy..
Tiny inch-long fish, unique
in flavour .. . found only
in New Zealand’s sparkling
streams, and then for but
three months of the year,
WHITEBAIT is a delicacy
beyond compare. Served
from the can, or fried in
batter, you are sure to
‘rave’ about WHITEBAIT
as do New Zealanders—
tvho send us these delicately
flavoured, tiny fish straight
from their streams
é
ê
w
WHEN MAKING YOUR WILE
REMEMBER THIS
MANY men believe that in making their will they are
bequeathing their whole property to their dependents.
In actual fact this is not so. Probate tax makes a
heavy inroad into many bequests. To overcome this difficulty,
the P. & 0. Probate Assurance was evolved. It provides the
ideal solution, pays for probate tax, obviates forced sales and
provides adequate money for dependents during the long assess-
ment period. Discuss the matter with their representatives or
write to
PRODUCERS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OJF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: H. Pell*
Head °ffice P. & C. Building corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney,
a- N.S.W. Agents. Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and :
be. Agency Co., Ltd.
SMOKE-OH!
“Hundreds of other girls will yet fly from England
to Australia.” —Miss Johnson.
T»ut that will hardly bo on the same plane.
X ¥
“hir Thomas Lipton is a golf enthusiast.”
He no doubt uses the famous Hip ton’s
tees.
X x
“Prophet Sassiloff, the dwarf leader of a Russian
sect, entered Poland, but was at once deported.”
A ease of small prophets and quick
returns.
X X
EXIT.
This is all due to my wife’s bad upbringing. I
once told her father about it, and he threw me
out of the house.” —Melbourne divorce evidence.
When Clarence told her father all
The latter felt a doubt come•
The point was argued in the hall,
And Clarence mas the outcome.
X X
“It was alleged that defendant had had no less
than four fires on premises occupied and insured by
himself.’* J
He should be a pretty warm man, as the
saying is.
WENT HOME.
MOLL: “And what did your poet do when you turned him downf”
DOLL: Oh, the poor dear threw himself into the waste-paper
basket.”
“Cattle for England: Order Cancelled.”— “News.”
As the poet observed, “Britannia needs
no bullocks.”
* #
“A ‘bolster’ is one who lifts goods from ware-
houses ; he is usually a silent worker.”— “Guardian.’’
Hence the saying: “Dumb as a hoister.”
* *
“Amongst the new turns booked for Australia is
a remarkable troupe of performing dogs.”
They will soon be making their bow-wow
to us.
“The average woman has a lot to bare.”— “Sun.”
And what’s more she bares it.
¥ *
A BILL
FOR
AN ACT.
[To protect Miss Johnson from Self-
advertisers, Politicians, Empire-savers,
Sensationalists and Leading Bores ]
Be it enacted by the King’s Most Excellent
Majesty, the Senate and the House of Repre-
sentatives of the Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia, as follows:
I.—(1) This Act may be Short Title and
cited as the Miss Johnson Citation.
Defence Act.
If* (1) This Act shall com- Commencement,
mence at once.
Rf* O) Any Tabloid Pro- Bounding Famili-
prietor, Managing arity prohibited.
Editor, Editor, Sub-editor,
News-editor, Gossip-editor,
Reporter or Contributor
who has the internal
impudence to refer to this
total stranger a s
“Johnnie,” “Johnno,”
“Josh,” “Ame” or “Amy”
shall be guilty of an
offence.
PENALTY: Sound kick in seat of trousers.
fV"—(1) Any Senator, Check on Political
M.L.C., M.L.A., and Aldermanic
Shire Councillor or City Skites.
Council Candidate who
makes a speech at Miss
Johnson lasting more
than an hour, and/or
containing more than one
hundred (100) references
to his own merits, shall
be guilty of an offence.
PENALTY: Disqualification from bragging in public
for six (6) months.
Any Feminist, Putting kibosh on
Old Girl, Loyal Female, some of our more
Women’s Leaguer, Com- virulent female
munity Singer, Mothers’ bores
Unionist, Y.W.C.A.
Official, Big Sister or
W.C.T.U. Worker who •
plots, schemes, conspires
or contrives t<s lure Miss
Johnson to any At-home,
Lecture, Old Girls’ Re-
union, Empire Rally,
Church Meeting,
Brownies’ sing-song or
other function at which
a normal girl is liable to
be bored to silent curses
shall be guilty of an,
offence.
1 ENALI Y: Name to be excluded from social columns
of press for one (1) year from date of conviction.'
GOD SAVE THE KING.
J. D.
Cricket note:
Hodder and
Stoughton have
strengthened their
claim to inclusion
in the England XI.
J hey demonstrated
their ability to get
Gnmmett between
the covers only a
few days ago.
¥ $
TEST TRIFLES.
It’s when Grim-
mett comes off that
Woodfull show’s no
inclination to take
him off.
An English
cricket writer gives
12 reasons why
England should
win the Tests.
We're satisfied
with our XI.
When runs are
being made, Brad-
man is sure to
take his whack.
He’s a good
wicket-keeper—but
when it comes to
batting, his name’s
Walker.
11. M.
Motorists are beginning to regard whiskies
as danger spots.
* ¥
“FELL IN LOVE.”
The one _ toho coined this famous phrase
Is hatted by millions day and 'light
As worthy of the utmost praise.
“Fell in” is absolutely right.
* *
“Miss Johnson looked grave—even a little sad.'’
Yet she’s undoubtedly a flighty young
thing.
JUSTIFYING THE JOB.
Literary Censor’s Department.
To the Minister for Customs.
Dear Mr. Forde, —So that you may under-
stand the principles on which my Depart-
ment is proceeding in its campaign against
impurity I am appending a rhyme by one P.
Shelley (an Englishman, I understand),
AN EASY WIN.
SPINKS (after club dinner ): “Oh, that little speech of mine was
nothing I can talk for an hour on any subject."
BINKS: “No, no—l surrender. My wife can talk for a week on
none.”
which I have dealt with on the lines laid
down for the guidance of my staff—
THE INDIAN SERENADE.
I arise from dreams of thee
(What was he dreaming of? Plainly
something of a sexual nature. Departmental
Amendment: “Reflections.”)
In the first sweet sleep of night
(A highly suggestive line. In any event
my rule is to tensor all references to meet-
ings between the sexes after dusk. The
reason needs no stressing. Departmental
Amendment: “ After dinner■ —which 1 never
have at night.”)
When the winds are breathing low
(Passed.)
And the stars are shining bright.
(D.A. : “Sun is.”)
I arise from dreams of thee,
(D.A.: “Reflections.” See above.)
And a spirit in my feet
(Here the writer yields to Foot Fetiehism.
Marked passages from the works of Lom-
broso, Krafft-Ebing and Havelock Ellis, which
are my Department's bibles, will make his
offence clear. D.A.: “Brain.”)
Hath led me—who knows how ?
(Passed.)
To thy chamber window sweet.
(My Department takes a very serious
view of this passage. What right has Mr.
Shelley , what right, has any man, to approach
the chamber window of a female, other than
his wife? The perversion is dealt with in
Havelock Ellis (Book VI.). The woman
would also seem to be culpable (see Krafft-
Ebing on “Exhibitionism”). There are
strong objections to the allocution “Sweet”
in the circumstances. D.A.: “ Father’s front
door, Miss Jane.”)
We thus get:—
I arise from reflections of thee
After dinner —which I never have at night,
When the winds are breathing low
And the sun is shining bright.
I arise from reflections of thee,
And a spirit in my brain
Hath led me—who knows how?
To thy father’s front door, Miss Jane.
I have cut out the remaining two verses.
Suffice it to say that they consist of a de-
mand by the male to be lifted “from the
grass,” and permitted to “lie” {sic) on the
female’s “heart” (!) while “kisses ram.
Faugh!
Believe me, my dear Mr. E orde.
Yours faithfully,
Silas Keyhole.
Literary Censor.
Max F.
SHORT FABLE.
The Aviatrix and
the Censor.
There was once
a Girl who Flew
from England to
Australia. So the
Executive of the
Lady Limelight-
Chasers’ Assoc,
got together with
a view to Grab-
bing some of her
Publicity.
“I have arranged
a Monster Recep-
tion in my Hus-
band’s Constitu-
ency,” said the
Politician’s Wife.
“He will deliver an
Address on his
Multitudinous Ser-
vices to the Dis-
trict which She is
Sure to Enjoy.”
“And I,” said
Mr s. Spiff-Goods
(Spouse of the
Eminent Haber-
dasher), “am giv-
ing her a Mam-
moth Tea (at Is.
6d. a head) in
Our New Restau-
rant. It will be
Splendid for
Trade.”
At this stage the
Book Censor’s
Helpmeet hurried
in and, Without so
much as Waiting
to Shed Her Mit-
tens, raised Her
Gingham for Sil-
ence, and Blushing
Hotly cried: “I
h a v e Dreadful
News. My Hus-
band is even now
in Telephonic Com-
munication with
Mr. Forde with a
view to Having
He r Deported .”
“Why?” clam-
ored her Hearers. “He has Evidence
that She Flew from England Without
a Chaperon!” And so saying the Vir-
tuous Woman draped her skirts about her
Ample Ankles, and Fell Senseless to the
Floor.
Moral: You’re bound to Shock Somebody.
D. J.‘
* *
“She's given him the slip, they say” —
So the wild rumor ran.
She gave him other things to-day•
He is her laundry-man.
CLEARING PA.
NEW PARSON: “Do you mean to tell me
that your father goes to the golf club
on Sundays?”
JOHNNIE: “Oh, but ’e doesn’t play golf. He
on’y goes there for a coupla spots!”
THE RUSTIC’S TALE.
~ “3 e Who were brought up on farms’
But Mi. Gullett could get no further with his agri-
cultural reminiscences, for his words were engulfed
y? ai *; °y ean °f Ministerial merriment. 99 — (( S: M
n era Id Par liam en tary repor t.
Oi be nobbut a simple yokel, zur
Zame as Gaffer Latham be, ’
■ n Archie Parkhill, o’ Bligh-street varvi —
Us grafts together, you see.
Us toils like mad vor to harvest Votes ■
Ati, in trying to cultivate
Our most paying crop (which is Offis, zur)
Why, us gasses early and late.
Last Christmas us sowed a mort of words.
An’ then us was sold a poop:
Old Varmer Hughes ’e put pison in,
An’ nothing at all came oop!
We’m troubled fiercely mV Labor, zur *
Once we’ve talked away that blight ’
An Billy an’ Wally an’ suchlike pests
Us’ll sartinly he all right.
T f wer you’re passing the homestead, zur
( Which the zame is oop Canberra way),
Or hope as you’ll call and hear us slate!
Oi thankee, zur. Good day.
10-2-4.


A pictorial
guide to
America
Fascinating this new booklet
illustrated with latest pictures of
San Francisco, New York, Yoseinite,
Grand Canyon, Niagara Falls and
other famous places of the United
States. It tells how easy it is to
travel across America when you go
back home. Free to those planning
trips to England. Call or write for
your copy.
SOa*NitSruwsrapt»
MATSON LIME
Dept. Mllf 12 Bridge Street,
Sydney. Tele.: B 7981.
&
*ET
e
Y*=^~r^W"sSS£:ggS
J&Pfe^Sßss
S^v
S§2%sS2g^sS«&c^
"Ss:i»*esS£iai
•&Zr<»
pmm^mm
mh
5..-.WS.
S^P^tS
asa
W;3
wmmM
Pxsfe
'K*JsjZi
wmmSfmm
s*!
as
RICH SOILS PROPERLY FED—
The increasing use of
Sulphate of Ammonia
brings home to those who have never used it, the
all-round importance of Nitrogenous Fertilisers, while to
those who have already experienced its benefits, its
continued use is more than ever necessary. The highest
yields and the greatest acre profits are obtained where
SULPHATE of AMMONIA figures prominently in the
fertiliser programme, and this applies to practically every
form of cultivation, from market gardening to mixed
farming ♦ . . and more recently, to “grassland farming/’
All Fertiliser Manufacturers or their Agents supply
Sulphate of Ammonia,
Literature from
NITROGEN FERTILISERS PROPRIETARY LIMITED
360 Collins Street, Melbourne, or Box 481 A.A,, G.P.O, Sydney.
KIDNEY TROUBLE
BEATEN BEFORE THE DAY STARTS
Out of bed with a
grumble—back aching
through the day, pains
in muscles and limbs,
rheumatic twinges—be
warned, Kidney Trouble
is undermining health!
Another day of pain and misery another day when the mere
thought of work fills you with loathing another day just to
struggle painfully through instead of living it every hour with a keenness
and joy in the daily tasks and a zest for pleasure.
Do you not “wonder ” sometimes what really is the true cause of your
chronic ill-health ? No doubt you, as thousands of other sufferers, have
endeavoured to spur up your system with heart-exciting drugs, or
endeavoured to cleanse the body with strong and eventually weakening
purgatives. Maybe for the chronic backache you sometimes endure, the
burning rheumatic twinges that torture you, you have rubbed ointments
and lotions into your skin —and with what disappointing results ?
We wish it were possible to show you the thousands of letters from
clergymen, clerks, farmers, housewives, miners, soldiers, sailors, indeed,
from every class, who tell of health restored, chronic suffering ended
—thanks to “DeWitt’s.”
There are two things, however, we can do. We ask you to go to your
own chemist and get his candid opinion of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
a\
Vs* 5 *
%
-V
f
r.
Pills. He can show you and tell you all about the prescription clearly
printed on each box, and why it is so good for the troubles that arise
from kidney disorder.
Then, again, he can tell you about our definite guarantee. Purchase
your 3/6 bottle, or the larger, more economical size, 6/6. Take two pills
at night, one before mealtimes. In 24 hours from the first.dose, you will
see (from colour of urine) they have started their health action. If this is
not so, return partly-used bottle to the proprietors and your money is
refunded in full. That is our faith in this remedy that the public have
tried and trusted for over 40 years.
Are you going on with another day of pain and weakness, beaten before
the day starts? Surely, with our guarantee before you, you will not
hesitate, but give De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills a fair trial ? Many
have said that after just a few doses their pain has ended and, what is of
greater importance, those whom De Witt’s Pills have restored to health
have been able to write months afterwards to say that never has the old
pain come back, never have they felt so fit and vigorous in their life.
De WITT’S PILLS


REX Hams are cured to
a delicious sweet flavour
by our special mild cure
—and REX Ham Pate is
delicious REX Ham in
spreadable form*
m
jm
X
I
s
1 h i
'W>
«
Pll
\\\
o
8&
?URE
FOODS
m
M'\
111
1
=*=s»
y /
m
\
N
x
Delicious for
Sandwiches and
Savouries
Ham Pate
REX Ham Pate, in 3% oz. and 2 oz. cans, is all Ham
—-delicious REX special mild-cured ham—and finest
spices. It owes its superlative quality and its true
“ham ” flavour to the fact that we use only the choic-
est and purest raw materials.
Other Choice REX Sandwich Spreads—
REX Veal and Tongue Pate
REX Devilled Ham
REX Ham and Tongue
REX Luncheon Cheese
REX Veal and Bacon
REX Anchovy Paste
REX Bloater Paste
REX Salmonelle
ALWAYS SAY REX
Foggitt Jones Pty. Ltd.
w
Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon


%
&
<«•?«$(* s
. xs**
**s*£ '
4
TOE MARK Of TOEGENUtNE
“Your Radio Pleasure depends
on the Speaker The ONLY
Speaker guaranteed against hum
or rattle for the life of the Speaker.
That is the X-Core Dynamic Speaker—
made by Magnavox, of course—for only
Magnavox may make a Dynamic Speaker.
Obtainable all Radio Dealers.
Battery operated D.C. Units, £5/15/-
A.C. operated from House Mains. A.C. Units, £71151’
What of £145,000,000? Think of that
figure these bad times. That is what
Broken Hill has produced since “The
Barrier Miner 7 ’ was started to help it
along. And still going strong.
Have you got anything good to sell?
Let these million-makers know about it
through “The Barrier Miner.” They
have just spared about a quarter of a
million for the coalminers.
e
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak without Notes, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your fancy, write
to the Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
tywikrQihftntl
"Rameno” Brand "Merino-Knit” Cardigans and Sweaters arc
snug-fitting and very comfortable to wear. They are knitted
from fine Australian Wools which give the natural warmth that
is so essential in protecting the body in changeable weather.
"Rameno” Brand "Merino-Knit” garments are beautifully
knitted, distinctive in style and colour, and altogether desirable
as an adjunct to the every-day attire of particular men.
RAMENO
<[M£'/i/ivo-/iavrr’’
CARDIGANS and SWEATERS
STOCKINGS
V/i
I
MADE EXCLUSIVELY BY
MERINO WOOLLEN MILLS
PTY. LTD.
COLLINGWOOD, VIC
Ask Your Mercer fir
"Rameno" Brand
"M e r i n o-K n i I”
Cardigans.
Sweaters,
Half Hose
m
gSSBS
Mft6
m
SW9
eM
'emo-i
lAlwausf/t
ijH/t
Poverty
Point
“Lond”: America continues to send across
a really offensive kind of drama. “Healthy,
Wealthy and Wise” at the New, London,
deserves the title already used for the egre-
gious “They Knew What, They Wanted.”
The hero wanted his uncle’s wife, but he also
wanted money. Uncle wanted an heir. So
the wife married the hero off to a young girl
with £50,000, stipulating only that he should
first take steps to provide the said heir,
which he obligingly did. London, accus-
tomed to this sort of thing with a light
Parisian touch, finds it altogether too strong
as the Americans handle it.
J. Beresford Fowler: Your Sundry Show-
man, in his travesty on Ibsen, Strindberg
and co. (sometimes mistaken by brainless
idiots like Barrie and Shaw for geniuses)
and the long-haired mystics who play them
at the Queen’s Hall, Melbourne, might in
justice have mentioned that in between-
whiles these frowsy decadents have appeared
in 12 plays of Bernard Shawpitz, five of
Johannes Galsworthy and three of No-el
Cowhardie. For the enlightenment of neutrals
in other States he might also have extended
his pungency to the score of eccentric press-
men whose amazingly eulogistic notices these
charlatans so freely quote when they revive
anything by the suburban bungler of Nor-
way.
“Lights”: “Fellers,” which, in the Fed-
eral Government’s film stakes, was declared
the winner, but considered worthy of only
a third prize, was produced by Arthur Hig-
gins and Austin Fay, makers of “Odds On”
and “Trooper O’Brien.” Higgins, before
starting in production for himself, photo-
graphed “The Adorable Outcast” for Austral-
asian Films. Universal bought his “Trooper
O’Brien” for exhibition overseas.
“Craiser” : One result of the Royal Com-
mission into Green’s accusations of graft in
the broadcasting inquiry has been to direct
public .attention to the scandal of free
passes for politicians.. Those in the know
have groaned impotently at the imposition
for generations. The average member of
Parliament has an arrogant conviction that
he shouldn’t be expected to pay for any-
thing. Entrepreneurs dare not refuse the
cadgers because they never know when the
politicians may be in a position to affect the
theatre’s livelihood. When Federal and
State Houses met in Melbourne there were
frequently more politicians in the theatres
than in the halls of legislation. Four of
Melbourne’s principal theatres being very
handy, members passed the time during a
dull debate watching the legs of the choruses,
reluctantly tearing themselves away from
this statesmanlike occupation when a mes-
senger came to tell them that a division was
imminent.
"Flaming Youth” ; A couple, of years ago
The Bulletin pronounced Con Colleano
a probable world-star in his wire-walking act.
On recent report, he was head-lining at the
Scala, Berlin, having previously conquered
London. _ The young man came out of a
family circus and made his first city appear-
ance with the Fullers in Sydney; then he
crossed to the Tivoli.
‘U.H.P.”: Edith Taliaferro, like her sister
Mabel, here in 1906, Avas born and bred in
the atmosphere of the playhouse. Her mother
\vas an actress, and for many years trained
children for the stage. There is a United
States Senator in the family. It is to be
hoped Austraiia will see Edith in “Polly of
the Circus ’ and “Rebecca of Sunnybrook
r arm, two of her pet roles.
“OM Timer”: Passed on at Perth, Edward
donn Kerr, station owner and Australian
•jji S t a - nd public platform favorite in the
middle’eigijtms. I think lie also toured the
L.S., England and elsewhere with Melba,
but wouldn’t bet on it. I know he was a
great flautist.
“Goldilocks”: Mary Macgregor, who skips
from a part like Tondeleyo in “White Cargo”
to the Prince in “The Prince (and the
1 »uper, is the daughter of a Brisbane
S ° ai or . started in amateur theatricals,
and later did so well on the professional
boards that she satisfied even Boucicault.
“L.H.P.”; The Adrian Consett Stephen
cup, presented by Consett Stephen in
memory of his son, and awarded to the
writer of an Australian one-act play, recalls
memories. The Australian drama suffered
a great loss in the death of Adrian, Avho
fell m France. His work as a playwright
was brilliant. Most of bis pieces, limited
to one or two acts, have been staged in
Sydney by amateurs. Probably the best are
“Echoes,” “Anchored,” “Futurity” and “The
Victor.”
“Cine Ma”: The arrogance of these mov-
ing-picture proprietors! When it was pro-
posed to call a new cinema in Melbourne
the State, there were some ineffective pro-
tests on the score that a proud citizenry
should regard the word to be at least as
sacred as “Anzac.” However, public opinion
in general apparently fully approved. Now
the State Theatre is to have a “National
Orchestra.” So a French visitor, remem-
bering how such things are ordered in his
own country, will be liable to come away
from an exhibition of American talkies,
accompanied by 40 musicians jazzing the
classics and playing nigger harmonies, under
the impression that he has been to an enter-
tainment controlled and subsidised by the
Government, and therefore the highest ex-
pression of the country’s culture.
“Stephen Sink”: There is hope for the
talkies yet. Mrs. Pat Campbell has gone on
a lecturing tour in the States speaking on
“The Art of Acting,” and there’s every pros-
pect, of course, that she’ll settle down in
Hollywood extracting nasal tones from other-
wise promising candidates for the illegiti-
mate. The Yank producers are appalled at
the failure of the majority of old silent
screen favorites, and anxious about future
supplies. The least wise know that you
can’t feed Clive Brookses and Ruth Chatter-
tons to the public week after week, however
gifted they may be, and people like George
Arliss are not going to risk reputations for
the sake of temporary dollars on studio-
made plays that haven’t first had the appro-
bation of seen audiences. The logical out-
come is expected to be a link up of legit, and
illegit. with the same capital boosting the
stage show r in order to feed it, if successful, to
the wider maw of the talkies.
“Say Bo”: This is a mechanical but a
marvellous age. Before the audience at Mel-
bourne Athenaeum turned to the business of
watching and hearing Tom Walls’s shadow in
“Rookery Nook” on the opening afternoon,
it was put through on the wireless ’phone
to the Aldwych Theatre, London. Walls
then spoke in person, and later introduced
Herbert Wilcox, the producer, Mr. de
Roper, London manager of British Dominion
Films, and the film editor of the “Daily
Mail,” who happened to be on the premises.
“Dinn-Dinn”: One big blessing brought by
the talkies is the abolition of the tempera-
mental star. Actors of both sexes have no
longer to be petted and pampered, and, if
they tear their hair or gnash their gums,
nobody cares. The new temperamental folk
are the authors, who are finding themselves
so important in the general din that they
have formed a league demanding presence at
all rehearsals if they so desire, and the right
to play merry-hell if the slightest alteration
is made in the script. There seems to bo
argument in favor of this contention. H. G.
Wells told a story of two young people who
went to the solitudes of the Arctic to settle
their differences and came back quite un-
changed. The talkie man sent them to
crowded Equatorial Africa and brought them
back utterly different. Except for those
minor alterations Wells’s story stood.
The Inky Way
“Lao-dah”: Melbourne “Herald’s contri-
bution to the censorship discussion was e
cartoon by Wells depicting a hand market
“Decency” dropping a volume inscribed
“Obscene Literature” into a dustbin. It will
be surprising if one of the eminent jour-
nal’s readers does not write in complaining
of the picture. The arm is hare.
“P.X.” ; A son of that fine old bushman
David Lindsay— The Bulletin once called
him “the last of the explorers”— has a ready
pen and a large and varied knowledge; but he
has put a heavy handicap on himself. A
dozen years ago an editor accepted a yarn
of his believing that it was written by a
much better known Harold Lindsay; after
which the Australian Lindsay swore that
he would never chance having his stuff
accepted on those terms again, so he has
spattered his ink over a dozen pen-names.
An article arranged for by one of the most
exclusive of British magazines has just
been added to the heap. It’s good sentiment
but poor business.
Newspapers from overseas are now arriv-
ing with greetings to The Bulletin and its
Jubilee Number. One of the most striking
things a*bout the chorus is the number of
reminders it contains of papers that have
been started in far countries in imitation of
The Bulletin. Canada (Ontario) had one
and S. Africa another. Of the latter the
“African Sun” says: “It was named the
‘Observer,’ and in every respect, even to the
pink cover, it resembled The Bulletin. But
the paper, whose quality has not since been
equalled in the Union, was in advance of
its time, and owing to high costs of pro-
duction it had to cease publication.”
Curiously the general manager was another
MacLeod. In Britain, as in the U.S.A., there
appear to have been many imitations, and
one of them, though its form has been
changed, is still very vigorous, Founded in
Edinburgh', it not only took the name, but
copied, the script heading—originally drafted,
by the way, by William Macleod 45 years
ago. From Edinburgh this Scotch “Bulletin”
spread to Glasgow and other centres.
“D. Minimis”: The desperate anxiety of
persons at the other end of the cable to
supply Australia with detailed information
about the doings of its sporting celebrities
is responsible for some ludicrous items.
One week saw the thrilling announce-
ment that our Davis Cup team found time
for a couple of hours’ shopping in London
while on their way from Switzerland to
Dublin, one racqueteer purchasing an over-
coat and another a chain for his Swiss watch.
A few days later a cricketing special repre-
sentative sought to eke out his copy about
the Lancashire match by flashing it across
the world that “overlooking the Liverpool
cricket ground is the house which was the
scene of a famous murder case a few years
ago when Mrs. Maybury poisoned her hus-
band.” The Maybrick case, which is presum-
ably the one referred to, occurred over 40
years ago.
THE JUDGMENT OF HAMFAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Who is the best of all the feminine stars who
have had their meed of public idolatry? Is it
Mary, Gloria, Enid, Constance, Gladys? Ask the
children. Their judgment is remarkably accurate
and invariably honest.” — Film, gossip note.
Of all the stars who crossed my ken
When I was very young and green,
Gladdened with ladies heard and seen
And quite enraptured now and then,
Alice was my ideal queen.
The ballet’s glitter stirred my soul;
I loved the glamor of the play;
And girls named Marie, Nance and May
Had intervals of brief control;
But Alice really won the day.
Though others held me wonder-bound,
As often as my choice was free
’Twas Alice that I yearned to see;
And youthful gifts for her I found
Which graciously she took from me.
Like Paris, I the apple gave
To her; and more extravagant
I strove my charmer to enchant
With buns and nuts that she Avould crave—
For Alice was the elephant!
N.S.W.
HAMFAT.


Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS on Australia, New
,r i’. ° Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office ADELAIDE, SOOTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
„ . £2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills fropi abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. AH usual
banking business transacted.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
%
w
e
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
3C Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
Experimenting!
How much a year do
you waste in unneces-
sary experiments?
Cut waste and
advertise with a
“Result Bringer.”
“The
Telegraph ”
({Brisbane)
Has proved itself over
58 years a good “Result
Bringer” for all adver-
tisers.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Sydney Representative:
N. L. ROBERTS,
Country Press Co-op. Co. of Aust., Ltd.,
Barrack Street, Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Winter Here is
Summer There!
Holiday in HAWAII
South Sea Isle of Sunshine and Surf
Sail by the Niagara or Aorangi
June 26 July 24
£75 First Saloon, £55 Second (Return)
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN
EXCURSIONS TO HAWAII
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. , Agents, 247 George Street, Sydney.
w
WINTER TOUR TO ~
PAPUA
To those people who are in search of
an Ideal Winter Holiday Excursion of
a duration of 3 weeks, the opportunity
now presents itself of an excellent trip
to the Sunny South Sea Islands by the
Burns, Philp Line.
A trip to Papua (British New Guinea)
is one that can be strongly recom-
mended.
Next sailings from Sydney and Bris-
bane, May 27 and June 25, and
monthly thereafter.
Fare: £4O and £44 Return.
Apply for descriptive Pamphlet No.
52/P to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
A
isr
i
.m
h,
wvV
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund-.
Reserve Liability
iSSfe
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150.000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
588 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand Fiji Paoua'
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world’
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated"
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND - 4,200,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL -------- 4,739,012 10 0
£13,678,025 0 0
Director* *
GEORGE JUDAH COIIEN ( Chairman ) ;
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND; Major-General
the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C •
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
if any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAUER, who will cjubte ydu price for the original.
Huddart Parltei Llii
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUdDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; dringe Su eur, Sydney.
*
$
s;
<?s>
»-i
porif Hegl€cr
SKIN/
Don't let that little pimple or rash
go untreated. Eczema, ulcers and
nasty sores all have simple beginnings.
A daily dressing with Zam-Buk will
check your skin trouble.
With its refined herbal essences
soaking thro’ the pores, Zam-Buk soon
restores the tissues to a healthy state.
Skin infection cannot resist the purify-
ing influence of Zam-Buk which is at
once soothing, healing, and germicidal.
You can always rely upon Zam-Buk, what-
ever your skin trouble. Use it regularly!
All chemists sell Zam-Buk at 1/6 & 3/6 box.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
e
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office): 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information . can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Übe Dominion.
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily.
Published In Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion’' is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from —
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.


an
m
0
WHEEL
BRAKES
w
t»a
%
ULTRACfL
MODERN
COACHWORK
m
nc
e
m
Titan Double Deck Bus
lEYLAND. LANCS.
YY/HAT passenger would not give preference to the handsome
™ LEYLAND “TITAN”? It brings the luxury of a limousine
to motor-’bus transport. The “Titan” revolutionises all old ideas
of ’bus travel. By a special patented construction, LEYLAND has
eliminated all body and floor vibration.
Low swung to the kerb, it dispenses with the awkward high step,
while the wide, shallow stairway invites passengers to utilise the
top of the ’bus, thus leaving the platform clear and doubling the
seating capacity.
The LEYLAND “Titan” seats 51 passengers, is invested with
tremendous strength and stamina, yet, because of LEYLAND’S
ingenious construction, is light and economical to run, and holds
the ground at all speeds.
Motor-’bus proprietors are invited to investigate the LEYLAND
“Titan”—the ’bus that is always patronised.
Other Chassis Now Available:—
“Badger”; “Beaver”; Six-wheel
“Terrier”; also 4-ton and 6-ton Models.
TevlandMofors
HEAD OFFICE:
24 GROSVENOR ST.,
SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: 87951-87952.
ENGLAND
TELEGRAMS:
SERVICE STATION:
153-167 GEORGE ST.,
REDFERN.
LEYMOTORS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Depot:
C’n’r Villiers & Courtney
Streets, North Melbourne.
Brisbane Depot:
Grey Street, South
Brisbane.
West Aust. Depot:
Royal Street, East
Perth.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Chev.” : A recent Sydney-Melbourne per-
formance demonstrated the amazing im-
provement in motor-cars. An 8 h.p. Morris-
Minor did the trip in 13 hours 9min. In
1905 an 18-28 h.p. Mercedes put up what
was then a record with 21 hours 44min.
The Mercedes cost £1500; the Morris-Minor
£235.
* * * *
“G.G.”: Two new Matson-Oceanic liners
are being built in America for the Aus-
tralian trade, the first rivet having been
driven by the Governor of Ma«ssachusetts
last month. These two vessels ; which will
be practically on the same lines as the
s.s. Malolo, will take up the ’Frisco-Sydney
run in place of the Sonoma, Sierra and
Ventura, and cut down trans-Pacific times a*
bit.
* * * *
“Mache”; Australia, which lias been ex-
perimenting for some time with paper wood-
pulps, is turning its attention to the possi-
bilities of grass. One of the most important
ingredients in the making of certain papers
is esparto grass, mostly grown in Algeria.
A band of experimenters on the N.S.W.
Northern Rivers are now hawing experiments
conducted into elephant and blady grass,
which have something of the esparto
qualities. Supply is the crux of the matter,
and much will depend on whether the Rivers
can grow enough of the stuff.
* * * *
“Eureka”: If anybody doubts the exist-
ence of musk that has not lost its scent
be should go to the Big Jack mountain,
between Southern Monaro and the far South
Coast of N.S.W. It grows right up to the
roadside, and it can be picked without
leaving the car. On a hot day the perfume
can be smelt half a mile away, and it is
surprising how long it lasts after the picked
leaves and flowers have withered. I
recently saw some musk leaves that were
picked here in 1913, and still retained the
perfume. So far no attempt has been made
to turn it to any commercial purpose.
'\i ;J: :I: :J:
“Mick” : Inspection of Tasmanian apples
before they are shipped may sometimes pro-
voke criticism (B. 7/5/’3O), but it is the
regulations and not the port inspectors that
should be blamed. In the case of potatoes,
deliveries must cease in time to allow a clear
day for examination of consignments. Apples,
however, may be delivered and shipped right
up to the time the ship sails, and it is
comparatively easy to get stuff away without
examination. I have even seen inspectors
trying to examine cases on their way to the
slings. On potatoes for export an inspection
fee of Id. per bag is paid; on apples, not a
sou. Naturally the growers of the humble
murphy complain of having to carry the
other fellow’s baby.
* >i= * *
“Aileron” :.In spite of much advertising by
other nations, the British commercial air
services are the best and most efficient in
the world. With the long Indian run now
established, over 50 British passenger liners
daily arrive at and depart from Croy-
don aerodrome, communicating with all parts •
of Europe as well as North Africa, Iraq,
Persia and India. The proportion of casual-
ties to passengers carried ha« been strikingly
small.
* * *
“Siapa Itu” (Malaysia) : Standing in the
markets at Kuala Lumpur (F.M.S.) and
watching coolies unloading cases of fruit,
I was pleasantly surprised to recognise some
familiar names. They were on Australian
products, each case bearing an attractive
poster to indicate where the contents had
been grown. There were grapes from Upper
Swan (W.A.), plums from the N.S.W. Co-
op. Society and apples from Karragullen
(W.A.). I tore off one label and enclose
it to show that our marketing methods are
improving. But it would bo better still if
all Australian fruit could be scheduled under
one distinctive name. Every orange exported
from the United States bears the stamp
“Sunkist,” and is recognised at once. Our
fruit is just as good as the American, but
our exporters have still much to learn in
the matter of advertising and placarding it.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: At the home of Walter Carnegie,
music man of Melbourne, I saw what is
called the piano-radio, the joint invention
of Carnegie and F. J. Henderson, of the
Howard piano factory, who was wireless
operator with Mawson in the Antarctic in
1913-15. It combines a piano, a piano-player,
a radio and a gramophone, the last located
in the stool. The principle of the radio
part is simply the application of the sound-
board to broadcast reproductions by means
of a light rod actuated by electro-magnets
affected by an ordinary valve receiver.
’Cello and piano solos, symphonic selections
and other items were picked up from a city
station and produced with extraordinary
fidelity, the overtones and peculiar timbre
of the different instruments being rendered
as I have never heard a loud-speaker render
them. The announcer’s remarks were with-
out a trace of malformation. The piano
sound-board, consisting of a five by four
membrane of pine, thinner in the bass and
thicker m the treble, is the product of
centuries of evolution. Judging from what I
heard, its use in radio will yet rescue the
nation’s eardrums from the worst infliction
associated with canned music
*** ‘ *
“Centurion” : That the Australian horse is
still in demand has been emphasised by the
arrival m Sydney of a trio of officers from
the Dutch East Indies m search of remounts
for their cavalry and artillery. Visits from
this source are periodical affairs, but like
expeditions from Japan for the same purpose
they get little publicity. And since no
attempt is made to cater for the trade it is
yearly getting more difficult for buyers to
light on the quality required. The politicians
are as apathetic as the horse-breeders
Years ago the Defence Department took a
wise step in starting a remount breeding
farm and installing a high-class stallion-
Piastre, a Melbourne Cup winner on it
That has been all washed out. and the
Queensland station where the Police Depart-
ment breeds its splendid mounts, marketing
the surplus, is the only public enterprise of
Its kind.


f t
SU P P
E R
INS EPARA. BLE
e
WED AND
BOTTLED BY TOOTH & CO
LIMITED, KENT BREWERY, SYDNEY


When selecting a Sporting Rifle inspect
Winchester Model 56
Magazine. Rifle
Using 22 cal. Long-rifle
Cartridges only.
Price, £5
post free.
w
Spare Magazine,
5 capacity, 5/6 extra.
10 capacity, 6/6 extra.
The Gun House,
COWLES c& DUNN,
Write for Leaflet B. 453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
A great drink this
RESCH’S D. A.
The famous DINNER ALE
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Gus Powell, landowner and retired Indian
horsetrader, dominates the racing situation
in Victoria so far as timber-toppers are con-
cerned. He won at Williamstown on May
24 with Bhopal, a novice, a*nd on Saturday
landed the more important Commonwealth
Steeplechase at Moonee Valley with Seegur
Ghat. Seegur Ghat was trained up to a
few days before the race by S. P. Casey,
who has had Eporgne (half-brother to Bard
of Avon) on lease for several seasons.
Evidently Powell wishes all his Grand
National horses to be under the one roof; he
owns Mosstrooper, as well as Bhopal and
Seegur Ghat. People are beginning to wonder
which will carry the stable confidence. Since
his brilliant successes last year, Mosstrooper
lias not appeared over obstacles. Weights for
the Grand National having been published
(M'osstrooper has list. 1 Olb.), Powell no
doubt will allow the chestnut to have an
outing at Flemington this week-end; he is
in the hurdle race there.
His display at Moonee Valley puts Chau-
inont: out of court as a Grand National
aspirant. The big-framed bay was entrusted
with favoritism, but at no stage could he
get near the front. Brenda’s Son led for a
round of the course, and then gave place to
Seegur Ghat, who had the opposition in
hopeless trouble from that point. Slowed
down at the finish, Seegur Ghat scored by
21 lengths from Fred Brown, with Glen-
tronie a moderate third. It. N. Harris rode
the winner, and probably will have the
choice of mounts on Powell’s prads in the
Grand National. Last winter W. Murrell
piloted Mosstrooper in the National (second
to Sandhurst), and H. J. Thompson had win-
ning rides on him in the Australian Hurdle
and Steeplechase. Harris has resided a good
deal in Sydney in recent years, but is a
Melbourne native and his parents live there.
Moonee Valley is a favorite course with
Dookie, the Baverstock gelding that failed
twice over hurdles at the Sydney Cup meet-
ing. On March' 22 he put up a world’s
record of 3.361 for two miles, while on
Saturday he reduced Acearak's time for
two miles and 50 yards in a hurdle
race to 3.441. Despite his failure at
Williamstown, Dookie was again made
favorite, but had only a slight call over
Horoscope. On this occasion Don Wraiglit
made every post a* winning one, which experi-
ence has shown to be the only way in which'
Dookie can be successfully ridden. Though
hanging out, as usual, towards the finish,
Dookie scored by a handsome margin from
Horoscope and Rakwool, both of whom
had been hard pressed for many furlongs
to try to bridge the gap. Cockcrow took
off too far at one of the hurdles and fell
heavily, but was not badly hurt. He is a
half-brother to Ego.
_ Alligator followed up his Aspendale Park
victory on May 28 • by capturing the Head-
wind Highweight Handicap, a 71b. penally
being insufficient to prevent him Wearing
down - Murnini in brilliant fashion. M.
Crossey, who owns and trains Alligator,
hails from Wagga; but has set up an estab-
lishment in Melbourne. Valve, belonging to
Harry Connolly, brother of E.A., headed
the betting quotes and led for a few furlongs
until supplanted by Murnini. It looks as
if E. A. Connolly intends to hold aloof from
the patronage of Vic. racing as an owner.
He bred Gallibrook (Top Gallant —Cran-
brook), which was well supported for the
first division of the Piccaninny Handicap and
ran second to Greenflight. The colors carried
by Gallibrook were those of C. E. Cooper,
for whom Bob Piper trains. Greenflight. a
daughter of Greenstead, belongs to R. Mc-
Cracken, nephew of the late A. L. McCracken,
one-time chairman of the V.R.C.
Second division of the Piccaninny Handi-
cap went to Meadow Lea, a Blackadder colt;
his owner, E. L. Sliiel, had landed a juvenile
event at Aspendale three days previously with
Spear Girl. Master Anomaly, a youngster
from Maoriland, was in a point better
demand than Meadow Lea; they ran first
and second. Blackbird, by Magpie, won the
Mount Alexander Handicap from end to end,
but Field Artillery came from a way
back to vanquish Aga Khan in the Keilor
Handicap. Field Artillery is jointly owned
by E. L. Baillieu and the Sydney sportsman,
“Mr. Constable.”
* * * *
For Flemington on Saturday:—
York Hurdle : Chumree ; next, Epical.
Hopetoun Steeplechase: Seegur Ghat;
next, Nightlark.
A*
Form in the Hurdle Race at Warwick
Farm on Saturday suggested that the £2OOO
race over the sticks at Randwick next
Monday will be a match between Grosvenor
and Songift. Songift, who was once the
PASSING IT ON.
CENTRE THREEQUARTER: “Go on; you take it, Jim.”
SECOND DITTO: “Not me—I tool the last one.”
occasion of Jimmy Munro, now in Germany,
being disqualified, won at the Farm (at
sixes), and did his job thoroughly, but
Grosvenor (8 to 1) got within a length of
him at the finish after having been left
many lengths at the barrier; Somnolent, the
favorite, fell. Songift conies down from lOst.
101 b. to lOst. at Randwick ; Grosvenor from
list, to lOst. 61b. Pat Osborne’s big chest-
nut is a really good hurdler, arid if. as it
would seem, he is back to his best form, he
should credit his owner with the big prize
for the. second time.
Price started three in the Prospect Handi-
cap, Killarney. Casque d’Or and Remora.
They were in that order in the betting (Kil-
larney was favorite at threes, after fives
had been offered). and in that order they
finished; indeed, they were out by themselves
when half the six furlongs had been tra-
versed. It was a feather in the trainers
cap, and Matthews deserves a word for his
capable handling of Killarney; but there
are owners who don’t like to sec then
horses beaten by stable-companions.
Price also saddled up Patadawn (9 to 2)
for the May Handicap, and Habit (5 to _>
for the Casula Handicap, and went close to
bringing off a treble. But Patadawn was
beaten by Glasgow (9 to 2), trained by
the all-conquering Walker, and Habit by
Cool Dan (12 to 1), whose long price—he
had won at his last start, and is trained
on the course —was apparently due to a
little-known jockey, Minto, being given the
mount. Asa matter of fact Minto rode
an excellent race.
: tj *
For Canterbury Park on Saturday: —
Flying Handicap: Casque d’Or; next,
Greenipch. .
Canterbury Cup Bacchus ; next, Induce-
ment.
Trial Stakes: Shillingsworth; next,
Thrived.
Ashbury Handicap: Aorangi; next,
Flinders.
* * * *
For Randwick on Monday:—
Novice Handicap: Star Dweller; next,
Kilumirri.
June Stakes: Killarney; next, Greensea.
A.J.C. Hurdles: Grosveuor; next,
Songift. ,
Ellesmere Handicap: Kavalli; next,
Glasgow.
* * *
The Sydney horses taken to Brisbane for
the QiT.C. Cup meeting. found the local
cattle much too good for them on the first
day at Eagle Farm. Beckwith was thought
to favor heavy going, and there was good
money for the Greenstone! gelding mid for
another Sydneysider, Credence, in the Strad-
broke Handicap, but both finished behind
the placed horses, the favorite, Will Yet
(9 to 4), romping home from Amble Boy
and Margin. Winner of the Brisbane Thou-
sand on the previous Saturday, Will Yet is
owned by Reid and Schwingha miner, and
was ridden by Goddard. He is a three-year-
old gelding by William the Silent —Flannel-
ette. Sir Ribble, who ran some good races
at the Randwick Easter meeting, was out-
classed at w.f.a. in the King’s Plate, in
which Lady Bine (3 to 1), a Seremond—-
Lady Bolivia filly, downed! the favorite.
Marella. Another filly, Rube Paddington
(Paddington—Kitty Rouble), had a run-
away win in the St. Leger, the favorite,
Great Idea, being unplaced. Rube Padding-
ton went out at 7 to 2.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
The scrap at Sydney Stadium between
Billy Hindley (Eng.) and the local boy Ted
Nelson ended in the disqualification of the
former in the eleventh round. He had pre-
viously been cautioned for illegal work,
and many expected the verdict long before
it arrived. Nelson was always eager to
attack and put up a great fight when he
managed to steer clear of the rough stuff.
1-Ie shook the visitor badly more than once,
e
TOO, TOO SOLID.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“One of the reasons given by the selectors of the
Empire Games team why no women athletes were
chosen to make the trip to Canada was that it had
been shown that they' were far too liable to put on
weight on the voyage.”
Bertha was a lady runner—
Lithe and slender was our Bertha,
And the thrilling way she won her
Trials showed that she was worth a
Place in any team athletic,
Bent on straining nerve and tissue
Overseas. It seems pathetic
No one should foresee the issue!
Sad, that travelling dc luxe some
Girls are apt to get so buxom.
Dolly was a dainty swimmer—
Lean and lissom was our Dolly;
Other maids her figure slimmer
Filled with envious melancholy.
When they sent her o’er the ocean
To the far aquatic tourney,
Who could have the faintest notion
What she’d gain upon the journey?
To be absolutely candid,
Beef unto the heels she landed.
Now, you see, unless you’re brainless,
Why the present team is Jane-less.
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


Clothes
for Men
e
and Iheir
Sons.
All-Wool
English Caps
For Golj, Motoring or
Evening Wear.
Days in the open—motoring or
golfing—call for the need of a
smart-looking cap.
In the evening, too, for the
cabaret, theatre or party, a cap
is in correct style.
All-Wool English models. One-
piece crown or golf shape. Smart
Shades and shapes.
8/6 10/6 12/6
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED,
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
LEFEVER NITRO SPECIAL HAMMERLESS
LEFEVER NITRO SPECIAL
PRICE
£7/15/
WONDERFUL VALUE IN DOUBLE-BARREL GUNS.
O.K.’D AND PURCHASED IN QUANTITIES BY U.S. NAVY.
A Lefever Gun is made to shoot right, and throws a pattern superior to many guns much
higher in price. '
The lock was designed by the best gunmakers in, America, and gunsmiths the country over
say it is the best designed, lock ever put in a gun. The first lock was snapped over 77,000
times, and the first Lefever Special Gun was fired about 10,000 times without a break.
A Lefever Gun won-the .World’p Championship at the Olympic Games in London.
The name Lefever on a gun has stood for service and durability for 50 years.
The best gun ever offered for anything near the price. Made in 12, i 6, 20 and 410 gauge.
“WHOEVER SAW A BROKEN LEFEVER?”
PTY. LTD
THE GUN PEOPLE,
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
31S Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
m
X2TA
SHARP
Owing to special
process in manu-
facture of the lead,
the “ Mephisto ’’
Copying Pencil
lasts much longer,
yet writes easily
and smoothly with-
out heavy pressure.
Medium, Hard and
Extra Hard Degrees.
COPYING
THE POPULAR
PENCILS
Also in 8 colours for checking, etc.
From all Stationers, etc.
L. & C. HARDTIfU I’ll, of “ KOH-I-NOOR ’’ Pencil feme,
Lotmlo i Oflice— 29. Kincswny. W.C.Z
Australian Representative—
JOHN MACDOIJG AI-D. P O Box 165.
SYDNEY.
BE’RT r our* side couldnt
GET PPOPERLY GOING,!
Giecst,* Cf How wks -thact ? a
£>ERT:"yVEt WBQE Too WELL
KICKED."
<SERT why DO you PLAY t
IN SUCH GiAUOY COLOURS?
Footbrawl
I' itzcray’ : One of the early slogans of
Australian football when it set out to justify
its existence at the expense of Rugby was
that it embodied the manlier features of
the imported game “without its brutality.”
It might have been so in the long ago, but
P? ri ? °i' the weekly casualty lists in the
Melbourne press is calculated to make the
blood of even a professional Rugby player
curdle. Little items like “Blink has now
discarded Ins crutches; Blonk is almost fit
to resume training again ; Blank expects to
be out of bed next week,” and so on, are
current in the cheery chuseries turned out
weekly by Melbourne football experts.
* *
“Outside Right”: Something new in inter-
national football cropped up in Noo Yark
the. other day when the famous old Queen’s
1 a*rk Rangers from Glasgow beat N.Y.
by 5-4 in a Soccer game before
-0,000 people. Most Soccer enthusiasts
knew that the round-ball game had taken
great hold throughout America in the last
20 years, the murderous American variety
being mostly confined to the universities:
b ew thought that any American side could
run the Rangers to a point, for though the
Glaswegians are not the side they were in
the 1880’s they still rank among Britain’s
best.
* $ * *
“Old Q.” : Rugby football in Australia has
not often been sanctified by the parsonical
presence—on the field, that is. Queensland
has afforded a recent exception in that no
less than two gentlemen who habitually wear
their collars the wrong way round turned
out for Toowoomba in the game against
Brisbane, won by the seasiders. M. Matson
played for Cambridge quite recently, and is a
wing-threequarter of considerable merit. That
the selectors passed him over when picking
the inter-State side to meet N.S.W. says
something for the talent available in Banana-
land this season. Charley Mayes is a
brother of A. I). Mayes, who has represented
A.S.W. and Queensland at cricket, and like
him is a Sydney Uni. product. The cloth is
prominent enough in English football. Aus-
tralian players of yester-year will remember
that diminutive parson half-back who cap-
tained the 1899 British team in this country,
and was immortalised by “Banjo” Pater-
son in The Bulletin as “The Reverend
Mullineux.”
*** * *
"Old Cap”: Good luck to James Baxter,
manager of. the British Rugby team, for his
uncompromising attack on the wing-forward,
that absurd and irritating fetich to which
M. footballers still adhere in spite of world-
wide condemnation. Baxter’s remarks have
roused a hornet’s nest in the Shivery Isles,
but he can be certain of Australia’s approval.
N. permitted the atrocious practice for
a few years, but gave it up in disgust.
Queensland never countenanced the employ-
ment of a wing-forward. To be effective
the wing-forward must play illegal football
throughout a game—he is no use unless he
is continually offside round the scrums. Given
a capable referee, he has probably cost M.L.
sides more points in penalties than they have
ever amassed through his agency. Australia’s
triple victory in the Tests last year was
largely due to free kicks given against the
pirate position.
The Fifteen
Bad weather again interfered with the
Australians in their match against Surrey
at Kennington Oval. Only one day’s play
was. possible, the tourists scoring 379 for
5 wickets. Bradman put up a wonderful
knock for 252 n.o. and the pace he moved at
can be seen in the fact that, save for a 50
from Woodfull, his confreres contributed
only 72 to the total. Allom, successful for
the M.C.C. in the previous match, was the
best Surrey bowler, taking 3 for 74. Percy
Fender, so critical of Bradman’s batting in
last j wa*s .jj c.auy past, u Dy
the young gentleman from Bowral, whose
average -to the end of the match was 152.6(5
tor 6 completed innings.
* * * *
Wood full’s men had a very easy victory
over Oxford University, the Dark Blues
going down by an innings and 158 runs. On
a dry and easy wicket the tourists knocked
up 406 for two wickets, and Woodfull
declared. Ponsford found his feet with a
sterling 220 n. 0., while general rejoicing
accompanied McCabe’s 91, the break of a
bad trot. Kippax was going well for 56 n.o.
at the closure; Don Bradman was bowled
off his pads at 32. Oxford scored 124 in
each innings, and showed little opposi-
tion. In the first Grimmett came again with
5 for 48, while Hurwood, with 2 for 27, at
last got a wicket. Wall also did Well, taking
6 wickets for 55 in the match.
♦
“Nark”: During the past few years a
regrettable custom has sprung up iii daily-
press circles of permitting heavy persons
who are alleged to have been expert crjc-
keters in the years that -the locust has long
ago given out l.b.w. to write criticisms of
modern players. The contributions make it
evident that the old racing axiom that the
worst judge of a racehorse is a jockey
applies with equal force to these ghosts of
the Jong ago. Hardly a prophecy by these
people has been borne out in the English
games to date. One gentleman’s loud and
persistent assertion that Hornibrook would
never be a bowler’s bootlace has been
answered by the presumptuous Queenslander’s
bag, on all sorts of pitches, of 35 wickets
up to the end of the Surrey match- —only four
behind Grimmett’s total. Bradman, who
another ancient predicted would be a failure
on English wickets, has put up the most
meteoric batting performance ever seen in
England from an Australian. There are
about 70 other confounded experts, but there
is no need to prolong the agony. All the
same, it is dashed rough on the public who
have to buy the papers.
Racquet and Brawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Ever since Mel-
bourne managed to snavel the headquarters of
the Australian Tennis Council from Sydney,
the lads north of the Murray have. feared
the worst. They got a mouthful the other
day when the Council published the Aus-
tralian ranking list for the year, with Queens-
lander Moon at the top, above Jack Crawford.
Sydney experts were too stunned to comment
fittingly on the outrage, but will probably
recover. Hopman and Willard follow Craw-
ford. Clemenger is the highest placed Vic-
torian at No. 6, whilst Turnbull is South
Australia’s best, in 11th place. Crawford
and Hopman are the leading doubles pa*ir.
Mrs. Cozens (Daphne Akhurst) leads the
women, with Mrs. Ha*rper (Vic.) and Louie
Bickerton (N.S.W.) bracketed second.
V * 5jJ Ssi
The Australian Davis Cuppers made a
good showing in the French championships.
In the doubles, Hopman and Willard won
through to the final, and then went down to
Coehet and Brughon 6-3, 9-7, 6-3. Both our
men played fine tennis, but Coehet was in
extraordinary form ancl never made a mis-
take, while he forced many on the opposi-
tion. Brugnon, the solid and reliable, kept
his end up and let his brilliant partner
supply the fireworks. In the singles the
most disquieting fea-ture was Gregory’s win
from Crawford, in the opening rounds, in
three straight sets. It wasn’t so much the
Australian’s loss that mattered as the evi-
dence he gave that his old tendency to
lapse into utter ineptitude has not been
overcome. However, it is the Davis Cup
stuff that masters, and as long as John con-
fines his tantrums to other events no recrim-
inations are likely.
“Hotham”: Jim Willard, as manager of
the Davis Cup tea<m in Europe, lias cabled
the _ Australian tennis authorities that an
Italian tennis team will probably visit Aus-
tralia in time to play in the 1931 champion-
ships. It is to be led by De Morpurgo, the
chief factor in the upset of our last Davis
Cup side in its opening match at Genoa, and,
at his best, one of the most formidable of the
world’s singles players.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Niblick”: N.S.W. golfers had a good week
in the Queensland amateur championships,
though in both the foursomes and singles
local men gave them a fair run. Indeed, in
the foursomes Healy and his partner Arm-
strong, both of the N.S.W. club, just got
home by 158 to 160 over 36 holes from Rad-
cliffe and Francis. In the singles Radclifl'e,
after a good start, faded away, and was
outed by Dennett, of the Bonnie Doon club,
sup and 4—-a mighty good w r in from such
a champion as the runner-up has shown him-
self to be. The open event saw a tie
between the two Sydney professionals, Sin-
clair and Eyre, each scoring 304. In the
replay over 36 holes, Eyre came right aw r ay
and won by 10 strokes: Eyre 143, Sinclair
153. Eyre, who is in charge at Long Reef,
won the professional championship of Aus-
tralia in 1926.
*
“Stiffy” : Sydney golfers are discussing the
question of whether an unfinancial member
of one club should be allowed to join an-
other. There is a movement afoot to bar
sportsmen of this. type. The situation
bristles with difficulties. Other sports which
have attempted regimentation on these lines
have found it a mistake. Further, there are
quite a lot of good players who might be
declared “black” if a ban as suggested should
come into force. What is the use, anyway,
of a chap getting his club’s name into tlie
papers if the club slate is not at his dis-
posal when necessity requires it?
“Westchester” : The latest thing in Ameri-
can freak golf-clubs is the “deep-faced” driver.
It is half an inch higher in the face than the
ordinary wood, and the men who have been
using it are satisfied tha<t they are getting
much better length, especially against the
wind. The tee is a bit higher than that
ordinarily used, but the fact that a lot off
the leading Yanks and Britons are taking up
the new club indicates that it is a worth-
while idea.
“Baffy”: A few more golf enthusiasts
like John Orr, of Pittwater (N.S.W.),
would not do l the game any harm. A Maori-
lander, settling in Australia, he bought what
was practically a swamp area and, in addition
to establishing his home, laid out a private
nine-holes course. The tides Which flooded
the ground have been cut off by flood-gates,
and the scrub which once covered it ha*s been
judiciously thinned out. It was the work
of a few T years, but everyone who lias seen
the pleasant, grassed fairways where once
were mud flats will agree that the trouble
taken was worth while.
* * *
“Brassey”: Touching on golf for the pro-
letariat (B. 14/5/’3O), some interesting facts
were disclosed at the recent annual meeting
of the British Artisan Golf Association. This
body now includes 88 clubs with a member-
ship of over 10,000 players. It was founded
by J. H. "Taylor, and has men distinguished
in golf and other walks of life among its
officials.
Car and Cycle
“Differential”: One of the leading New
York dailies has been confessing the sins
of its youth. Commenting on the newly intro-
duced motor-car in 1900, it said that the
vehicle would never do any good because the
streets were ill-suited to the device, a*nd con-
fusion was bound to occur when two or
more got together. Also it opined that the
average man was not skilful enough to get
the complicated machine out of difficult
places. Ta*ken by and large, the estimate
was not so ridiculous. Our streets are ill-
suited to the “device,” while as to the want
of skill on the part of the average driver
in difficult situations, it is only necessary
to inquire from that modern edition of Job
the traffic policeman.
“Mag.”: The non-stop run still continues
popular in motor-trade circles. The latest is
a 19 days’ run in a> Graham-Paige car on a
half-mile dirt track in Salt Lake City. Two
married couples, American and British,
worked together on the job, which demanded
that the test should cease when the engine
or the road wheels ceased to revolve. Arrange-
ments were made to change wheels while the
car was moving, a travelling-jack being
employed for this. The ingenious gadget
was responsible for the finish of the test,
breaking down while a wheel was being-
changed and halting the car. The record
was 36 hours better than the previous best
made on Indianapolis Speedway, where the
famous “500” car race is held annually.
“Sprocket”: History was made in Sydney
the other day when the girleens of Canter-
bury assembled and formed a cycling club
for flappers of all ages. Something of the
sort exists in Victoria and South Australia,
but if it ever happened in N.S.W. in the
remote past no one has heard of it. A start
is to be made with road racing, and later on
the members will demand to be allowed to
compete on the local Velodrome.
Miscellaneous
"The Gaffer” : A question which came near
to wrecking the Olympic Federation seems
to have been settled. This whs the proposal
to pay athletes competing “broken time” to
compensate, for wages lost while at the
Games. Finland, Sweden, Holland and
Switzerland backed the motion before the
meeting of the International Amateur
Federation, but on Britain’s emphatic
declaration that adoption would mean her
withdrawal from the Games no further sup-
porters came forward. It was this “broken
time” disagreement which caused the split
in the Rugby Union 40 years ago, the
breakaways forming the professional Nor-
thern Union, now the Rugby League.
Vic. Aero Club’s annual pageant is steadily
growing in importance from a flying point of
view while public interest tends to decline.
This year’s meeting was better tha*n any
previous one and it had the advantage of
being staged at Moohee Valley racecourse.
There were 26 entries for the Derby, one
being a Westland Widgeon, flown from
Sydney by the two youngest pilots in Aus-
tralia, Freda* Deaton, aged 20, and John
McKeahnie, a 17-year-old youngster, mem-
bers of the N.S.W. club. The race was won
by Squadron-leader Summers in a Bristol
Bulldog,, one of the powerful Air Force
machines which have just been assembled.
His average speed, was 165 m.p.h.
* * * *
“Ride. Off”: Though the N.S.W. Polo
Association’s splendid new ground at Rock-
dale, Sydney 7, is nearing completion, it
■will not be ready for this year’s Dudley
Cup tourney, which opens on Kensington
racecourse on July 2. There will be two
playing. areas, while elaborate appoint-
ments, including a clubhouse, will make it
one of the most up-to-date polo grounds in
the world. The turf is first-class, and the
well-drained area as level as a billiard table.


' A' I
mm
mss
■<%
mm.
*
. . *• ••
ss**
and now a daily service
between SYDNEY-MELBOURNE
MELBOURNE-SYDNEY
The outstanding success and popularity of the Australian
National Airways’ daily passenger and mail service
between Brisbane and Sydney has led to the inaugura-
tion of a similar service between Sydney and Melbourne.
The Most Luxurious Air Liners in Australia
The giant, three-engined Avro air liners, which have
established such a wonderful reputation for safety,
stability and luxury, will leave Sydney and Melbourne every
day. The time taken by the journey is FIVE HOURS!
PASSENGER FARES:
SINGLE £9/13/- RETURN £lB/7/6
including comfortable transportation to and from the
aerodromes at both terminals.
Bookings can be made with Government Tourist Bureau,
Thos. Cook & Son, Bums, Philp & Co., Hotel Australia,
Dalgety’s, Hotel Sydney, Menzies’ Hotel, Australian Travel
Service, br at the Sydney or Melbourne office of Australian
National Airways, Ltd.
Sydney Office:
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE. Thones: 87701, 81600,
8W6700.
Make a Special Note of the Melbourne Address:
271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. Thones: Mll5O, M 1159.
(Joint Managing Directors: MESSRS. C. KINGSFORD SMITH and
C. T. P. ULM.)
Conforming with their policy of ensuring absolute reliability in every phase of their service,
the Directors of Australian National Airways, Ltd., insist that every air liner in A.N.A. shall
be operated exclusively upon Union Super Spirit and Atlantic Motor Od. The products used
are exactly the same as those supplied to motorists by garages and service stations.
4
■
O
:
SR
V:


:■:> :-,m
m
\
xWS
mm
x*x-x
yyy.y.-;
XvivX
§Bi
x : : : :->v
m
Hi
■HI
¥pp|
SgiigS
*3
V
m
s w?m
IPf
in
1
X
»:... ,x>
*SK
<&<
A
&
©a
When
other cigarettes
lose their savour
try
the cigarettes
thatalways satisfy.
or
State (xpr^ss
sss
CIGARETTES
MADE- IN tONPONggjf


Monday to Friday,
A la Carte Dining and Supper
Service.
Minimum charge 7/6. Dancing till
1 a.m. Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY LATE GALA NIGHT.
Special Table d’hote Dinner, 21 /-
Special Supper from 10 o’clock,
12/6; or a la Carte, minimum, 12/6
Afternoon Tea Dansant—
Monday to Friday, 3.30 to 5.30, 2/6
Saturday, 4/-
’Phone M 4 13 I for your reservation.
(Cf
%
Food
Bexd. Trade Mare.
“ I don’t like Milk.”
Many mothers have this
trouble with the very children
who need milk most.
In nursing homes, hospitals,
etc., they have a way of
making everybody like milk.
The doctors call it Bengerisihg
the milk—this is really making
fresh milk into delicious
Benger’s Food.
Write for booklet to; —BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BEXGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
Under!
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1920.
A 3?J030
puOI
TOi °1
CHAMPAGNE <
MesliieA
IIHI
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Liiinitad
SYDNEY.
CHAMPAGNE.,
Q^ilcsllcidsieC:
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Asrerus—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Have you
ordered
Kraft Cheese?
The powers decided against the expense of
a special pontoon at Farm Cove gaily flagged
and red-carpeted, so Sir Philip and Lady
Game came ashore at Man o’ War Steps,
after having taken possession, as it were, of
11.M.A.5. Australia 1 on their way from
the Moldavia, which had brought them from
England. It was the perfect morning for
a King’s ambassador to arrive. The sun
shone, there was a wisp of haze between the
blue sky and the blue wa*ters, and the ferries
cut swathes of silver in a tumbling lotus-
field.
Sir Philip, his aide (Captain Gifford) and
small Rosemary Game all toned in with
Nature’s color scheme, and wore their horizon
blues with notable effect. Sir Philip, slim in
his Air Marshal’s rig-out—rdecorations, busby
and all—was a brave figure in the sunshine.
Rosemary wore her blue with an air: one
suspected it of being brand-new and her very
best. Lady Game was in cigar browns. Her
coat was softly furred at collar and cuffs
and her hat was caught up with a* brooch
that sparkled into the outspread wings of
the Air Force. In the company were sons
David and Philip. Philip is 18, fair, with
pale-gold hair and a* look of such youth about
him as was probably worn by David Copper-
field. Brother David has darker hair and
looks as though he could put up a tougher
scrap. In that group, also, was Miss Isabel
Crowdy, Secretary and friend of Lady
Game, shading a nice smile with a droopy
black hat.
After the Civic Commissioners had thrust
addresses and such upon them in the narrow
landing enclosure that blazed with bunting
and was pictorial with soldiers and sailors,
mounted and on foot, and after Premier
Bavin and Opposition Leader Lang had
greeted them, the whole family hopped into
cars and drove through the flagged city, loyal
citizens giving them an occasional cheer
(though as usual the crowd was undemon-
strative), and so to Government House.
Actually the whole business was much more
cheery and “homey” than the old Farm Cove
landing.
Inside the gates stretched long lines of
marine-blue Girl Guides with sturdy black
legs and honest faces, equally long lines_ of
starchy-white Y.A.D.’s under the searching
eye of Commandant Rose Piper, and lines of
sliining Junior Red Crossers. Up near the
old .stone house the mounted police, immov-
able blue and white figures on satin-smooth
horses, were lined up before one of the oldest
and most spreading trees. A little to the
right the Light Horsemen, with drooping
pennants, looked as though ready at a word
to do the Balaclava act over again. Aero-
planes drummed, cannon boomed. White
sunlight streamed down, trees shed friendly
shade. It was a sort of spirited arcady;
and if John Amadio, disguised as Pan, had
suddenly piped a leaping train of statues
from the Botanical Gardens near by, it
would have seemed quite in the picture.
But on the gold-hung dais in the ballroom,
prosy things like oaths of office had to be
administered by Chief Justice Street. Here
were gathered Church and State, Navy and
Army to see the thing was done with pomp
and circumstance. Town-clerk Lu*yton, with
his lace trimmings, caught the eye. Admiral
Evans was there with his smile and his lady,
the latter blue-coated and -collared in Per-
sian lamb. Brig.-Gcneral Anderson, who is
to remain on as private secretary, was heav-
ily festooned with gold ropes; with him
came Mrs. Anderson and daughter Bethia,
the latter wearing a twilight-blue hat. Rabbi
Cohen rubbed shoulders with the Moderator
of the Kirk. Mrs. Budge, with daughter
Sadie and her own small Rosemary, watched
still another tenant being installed in Gov-
ernment House. Premier Bavin and Lieut.-
Governor Cullen; Mrs. Bavin, alert and
smiling; and Chief Justice Street’s lady
helped in the house-warming.
Lady Game is slim, of rather more than
medium height, and is blessed with a clear
complexion. She loves gardening and motor-
ing. Flying is as yet an unknown sensa-
tion to her. She comes from the historical
part of Somerset, where Monmouth led his
rebellion, and she was an intimate neighbor
of Cheddar, where the famous cheese comes
from, though when the last Bulletin man
who was in those parts asked for it he
was offered New Zealand instead. Lady
Game’s home rejoiced in the quaint Norman
name of Cricket Malherbie, which sounds
something like prickly-pear. She won’t be
altogether out of the conversation when she
visits the sheep and the cow countries, for
• Somerset grows grain and wool and luscious
cream, not to speak of some of the most
gloriously colorful pastoral landscapes in all
the world.
Not until the Governor ha» been sworn in
is he entitled to have the band strike up
“God Save” in his honor. The first eight
bars of “Norma” were played by the Aus-
tralia band when the arriving Governor and
his lady stepped aboard the battleship. But
no sooner had official-secretary Budge
accepted on his behalf the job and read his
promises to do the thing properly, and
the Chief Justice had played his part, than
another band swung on to the right
note, and Sir Philip, now a really and truly
Governor, stood finhly to attention.
After which he couldn’t keep his mind off
the unpacking.
Artistic and writing Sydney was shocked
last week to read of George Lambert’s sud-
den death at Cobbitty. Characteristically lie
was doing something for one of his ponies
when he collapsed. Brilliant sculptor and
artist, he was the first Australian to pluck
an R.A.; but he was as jealous of his repu-
tation as a horseman and a wit as of his
fame as an artist. For the last two years
his health had been indifferent, but death in
the end leaped out unexpected and painless.
George Lambert loved parties, and liked
to be seen with the best people ; yet there was a
softness and generosity underneath the laugh-
ing cavalier mask. One heard of surrepti-
tious kindnesses, of little graceful acts to
just-beginning artists. He had a pretty wit
on occasion, and a tremendous courage where
the profession of art seemed to call for cham-
pionship. When he was first presented to
Lady de Chair she remarked to him ; “Oh
yes, you are Mr. Lambert, tin 1 painter!”
Photographs by Monte Luke.
SIR PHILIP and LADY GAME.
“Some people even say I am an artist, Lady
de Chair,” he replied. He could pay a com-
pliment to another man with a quick smile
of appreciation that somehow doubled its
value. Once when a group of artists was
debating whether to have a show of water-
colors, and opinion was divided, B. E. Minns
being among the dissenters, Lambert
stretched out a sudden finger and tapped
him on tlie arm. “Of course, we’ll have the
show. We can paint water-colors well
enough. I can paint a dashed fine water-
cclor. Why, dammit all, didn’t, you teach
me how!”
Lambert’s wife, who was younger than he,
had all the makings of a brilliant writer
when as Amy Abseil she first met him.
After he had won the Travelling Scholarship
she went to Paris with him, and for years
the young pair struggled together while the
few- and far between commissions came in.
Once for a whole week the two - lived on
potatoes (there must have been an active
Housewives’ Association keeping prices do-wn
in those days), and Mrs. Lambert learned
how to serve them in 21 different ways.
When writer Arthur Adams, as a very young
man, went to London the Lamberts were
amazingly kind to him. Their home was his
heme, as indeed it was the home or dropping-
in place of every liard-up artist and writer
the Lamberts met. For five years after
her husband’s return to Australia Mrs. Lam-
bert stayed on in London with her two gifted
sons—the one a sculptor, the other a com-
poser. Then she came to Sydney, but re-
mained only a few months. Back in Europe
she is established with her sons, Constant
and Maurice, and is putting her gifts for
writing and French into articles for French
newspapers.
w
sat Mrs. Sep Levy, her snow-white hair
meticulously coifed, and her apple-blossom
cheeks framed fittingly in the storm collar of
her grey squirrel coat. Visiting artist Alicia
Muma, who knows Sydney’s old friends
Freddie and “Honey” Shipman, was one of
the best-groomed women present. Her long,
rather French face was set off by drooping
diamond and platinum earrings. Conductor
and composer Howard Carr, who years ago
married The Bulletin’s Trixie Tracey,
reappeared in the audiences; so did Dean
Talbot and his wife. Mrs. McCrae and her
poet Hugh applauded vigorously tlia*t per-
fect love-song of old Ben Jonson, “Drink to
Me Only with Thine Eyes,” sung effortlessly.
Nancy Bavin and Norah Cazabon led a set
of young'things from Jean Cheriton’s school,
while Mrs. Cazabon sat with the attractive
Mistress of Doone. Well-dressed males were.
Roland Foster, Dan Carroll, manager Leo
de Chateau and Jack Griffiths.
But, music apart, the lad who made the
female heart do a hop, .skip and jump was
Nils Nelson, the accompanist. His pale-gold
hair, brushed ba*ck in the slickest manner,
his fair skin and look of shining cleanness
won him a front place in maidenly bosoms,
even before his fingers had ruffled the key-
board.
Sydney has been purring over a week of
summer that Nature has slipped between the
cold leaves of winter. Windless days, warmed
through with sunshine, enwrap the city.
The Harbor is an enormous bed of delphi-
nium ; the foreshores squat like lizards in the
sun. The statues in the Gardens proclaim
joyously that a few' vine-leaves and a dia-
phanous garment are the proper wear. Bobbie
Burns stills his plough to rhapsodise over a
country that blooms with roses even in mid-
winter. The cynic may remark, thinking of
lean times, that the roses have their thorns,
but, then, isn’t it better to have roses with
thorns than thorns without roses ?
And Sydney has liad a stranger thing than
roses in midwinter. At the Zoo the rarest
bird on'view is a pineapple which lias ripened
there in May. Not very impressive as to
size, still there it is, sound,
fruit, grown behind the barrier of a few
panes of glass.
If you are clever with your fingers, you
can start at once making ribbon-roses. These
are to bloom at collar and hem of spring
and summer frocks. It’s to be a linen season ;
even artificial flowers are to be made in this
fabric. Chokers,too, of linen beads, small
and large, are to be worn in the same shade
as the frock. Straw hats have brims of
spotted linen, and scarves of the same
material are to be tied in huge bows under
the chin, for the new weave, they say, is as
creascless as silk. Tailored linen shirts and
linen skirts will gain a nautical air from
the three-quarter navy reefer coat trimmed
with brass buttons that is to top them.
Capes swing from everything. You can
choose the length of your own sleeve. It
can be non-existent, elbow or three-quarter.
With your flowered chiffon frock (oh yes.
the flowered chiffon is. still with us), you
will, all being well, buy a cartwheel hat
which has a crinoline grown and a brim
to match the frock. The flowers are cut
out from the pattern and used to garnish the
hat. They are also appliqued round the
hem, neck and scarf of the dress.
“The Cheaters,” by the McDonagh sisters,
which was screened before a packed house
at the Roxy on Sunday night, falls between
two stools. When the characters break into
speech they employ imitation English
accents, and when they don’t the captions
refer to “dames,” “breaks” and “big boys.”
Apart from the, fine scenic shots the only
definitely Aussie touch about this film con-
sists in the clothes of the society men. They
would drive the editor of the “Tailor and
Cutter” to his . .smelling-salts, if not to
drink. Consideration of “The _ Cheaters”
suggests that the time is not ripe for an
Australian society film unless handled on
burlesque lines; but there is evidently scope
for a picture in which the characters talk
like Australians and put the conventions
of Hollywood right out of their heads.
A choir of 100 clear and true Australian
voices under Roland Foster’s direction
helped the success of the, opening of “Sarah
and Son” at the Prince Edward. Austral
and John Amadio were among the listeners,
paying thereby a compliment to the house
which, even in the first madness of mechani-
cal music, retained its full orchestra. The
opening night of anew season here is always
decorative, as. far as the dressing is con-
cerned. Diamonds and near-diamonds scin-
tillate, and cars, some highly powered and
some highly mortgaged, prance before the
door; and there was no departure from the
rule when Sarah went in quest of her child.
The frocks at St. Vincent’s Ball were
sweeping, backless and garlanded as if for
a glad May-day, and' the big ballroom of
David Jones’s was the most thickly-popu-
lated area in Sydney. A nice contrast was
given by Mrs. John McKelvey and Mrs.
John Faviell, the .first in spring-green moire,
the second in primrose satins. Surgeon
MacCormick came with his lady, who wore
her Serene smile above rose-spattered black
chiffons. Tall Mrs. F. G. Fanning mingled
white and black chiffons happily, and as
president of the committee entertained
people of importance at a table on which
crimson roses and mauve sweet-peas and
violets were banked in dizzying fragrance.
France’s Consul-General Nettement and his
wife, she in seaweed-pink chiffons, -were
among the dancers. Handsome Mrs. Arthur
McNiven, in opulent black and silver, sus-
tained her reputation as a wearer of good
clothes. Of the young things Mary Bull-
more and Lynette Clonan held the gaze.
One would like to indulge in more move-
ment of the lower limbs at Musical Associa-
tion parties even if the action of the jaws
was thereby restricted. All too soon do
guests and celebrities drape themselves about
the tea tables. There is no shifting and
changing of groups, no flights of wit and
fancy as one celebrity strikes fire from the
aura of another. Last week the association
greeted Austral and Amadio. The party was
timed for three-thirty, and at a quarter to
four, men, women and tenors had their
knees tucked under the red lacquer tables
and were burying their bridge work in the
cakes. Austral whs in Robin Hood green,
and her ensemble was collared and cuffed
in mink. (This Letter knows it was mink
because that’s just one step off sable. Sable
is the only wear permissible when one sings
at the Metropolitan, La Scala and the mil-
lionaire opera houses of South America.
Austral is considering styles in sable for
next season.) The songbird’s hat was of
green velour, her shoes were the same shade,
and expensive green orchids swooned at the
rate of half a crown a second on the collar
of her coat.


NORMAN LINDSAY
THE AUTHOR OF “REDHEAP”
HAS WRITTEN
ANOTHER BOOK
“A
CURATE
IN
BOHEMIA”
37 LINDSAY
ILLUSTRATIONS
Go with the Curate
through Bohemia, per-
sonally conducted by
Norman Lindsay, and
laugh all the way.
PRICE
TWO SHILLINGS.
Postage Extra 2d.
NOW ON SALE.
3 ft
AT ALL BOOKSELLERS AND BOOKSTALLS.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
Exclusive Diamond Rings
at Drummonds
Diamond Ring,
with Diamond-set
step shoulders,
£3O
Calibre-cut Dia-
mond Ring with
‘‘baton” Diamonds
on shoulders,
£5O
Calibre-cut Dia-
mond Ring, with
Diamond-set
shoulders,
£37/10/-
Diamond Ring',
with Diamond-set
shoulders,
£25
Solitaire Dia-
mond Ring with
Diamond-studded
Coronet.
Calibre Diamond
Ring' with “baton”
cut Diamonds on
shoulders, £BO
Diamond Ring,
with Diamonds
set on shoulders,
£oO
Solitaire Diamond
Ring-. Latest
design.
Calibre-cut Dia-
mond Ring, with
Diamond shoulders,
£6O
Diamond Ring,
with Diamond-set
shoulders,
£37/10/-
Diamond Ring’,
with Diamonds on
shoulders,
£3O
Circle Ring set
with 25 brilliant
c u t Diamonds.
Rest value in Aus-
tralasia, £lB/18/-
Others from
£l2/10/-
THE illustrations are the exact size of the rings offered, and represent
a few of what constitutes the largest and finest range of rings in
the Commonwealth. Prices of all rings can be varied according to
quality and size of gems desired.
Drummond a rings are made in their own workshops on the premises
by. a staff of highly skilled ringmakers, whose entire knowledge and
ability are unreservedly devoted to their production. All diamonds are
set in pure hard platinum.
Complete satisfaction is assured or money with be refunded.
Wm. DRUMMOND & CO.,
JEWELLERS,
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
AUSTRALIA'S AIIS.MINDED
GENERATION
e
w
e
w
e
w


THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co«,
214 Georse Street, Sydney.
Wentworth Hotel's New Policy.
Those are difficult times through which we are passing, and the Wentworth Hotel, Ltd., are
endeavoring to meet these altered conditions by drastic reductions in tariff, consistent with
their usual high standard of efficiency in service, cuisine and quality. The new rates as outlined
below will operate till further notice, and the management commends them to your attention.
Single Rooms, with Breakfast only, from 12/6
Single Rooms, with Bath, Breakfast only, from 15/-
Single Rooms, per day, inclusive, from 20/-
Single Rooms, per day, inclusive, with Bath, from 22/6
Double Rooms, per day, Breakfast only, two persons, from . . 25/-
Double Rooms, per day, inclusive, two persons, from 35/-
Double Rooms, per day, inclusive, with Bath, two persons, from 40/-
Double Rooms, per day, with Bath, Sitting-room, inclusive,
two persons, from 50/-
Double Rooms de Luxe, with Bath, Sitting-room, inclusive,
two persons, from 55/«
THE WENTWORTH,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY
Legal Notice.
JN THE' SUPREMK COURT OF QUEENSLAND.
Matrimonial .Jurisdiction.
To IDYLLEN MAY ARGUE wife of WILLIAM
ARGUE.
TAKE NOTICE that an action was commenced on
the eighteenth day of January 1929 against you
in this Court by your husband William Argue in
which he claims a dissolution of his marriage with
you and by his Petition filed herein he alleges
that since the thirtieth November 1923 you have
deserted him without cause continuously for five
years or upwards and have never since returned to
cohabit with him.
AND that it has been Ordered that service of
the Writ and Petition on you be effected by filing
and fixing on the Notice Board in the Registry of
this Court at Brisbane an office copy of the said
Petition and a copy of the said Writ and the
insertion of this notice once in The Bulletin a
newspaper published at Sydney in the .State of
New South Wales and once in the “Brisbane Courier”
a newspaper published in the State of Queensland.
IP you desire to defend this action you must
within thirty days from the last act done as
aforesaid enter an appearance in the Registry of
the said Court otherwise the Plaintiff may proceed
in this action and Judgment may be given against
you in your absence.
Dated this 29th day of May, 1930.
D. M. O’FLYNN,
Deputy Registrar.
McGhie and Chambers, Atlas Chambers, Adelaide
Street, Brisbane, Solicitors for Plaintiff.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] C[?] 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited
So[?] so M[?]
Punters who had cared to scan the heavens
for augurs at Moonee Valley on Saturday
afternoon could have derived a few good tips
from the Southern Moon passenger ’plane,
which soared over the course for some time
as a preliminary to its trip to Sydney the
following day. Greenflight and Blackbird
were hinted at, and the roar of the ’plane’s
three motors might have suggested Field
Artillery to the imaginative. What effect
these aerial inspirations may have had on the
betting can only be guessed. Feminine dress-
ing was mostly a matter of tweeds, with in
many cases a hat of the same pattern. Lun-
cheon was, as usual at the Valley, a very
sociable affair. The Premier and Mrs. Hogan
were there, she in tweed blending cocoa and
blue tints ; also 11. I. Cohen and Mrs. Cohen,
she also tweeded, and Mr. and Mrs. Ben
Chaffey, just back from their station home,
the lady a study in bottle-green in tailored
suit and velour millinery. David Bell, chair-
man of the Board of Works, lately recovered
from a serious illness, was viewing the gee-
gees with his wife, and others on the lawn
were Mrs. Oscar Lempriere, Mr. and Mrs.
Rodney Segrave, Dr. and Mrs. G. Plante,
Mrs. Jack Merrillees, the Dan Taylors, Mr.
and Mrs. A. MacGregor and the Ernest
Turnbulls.
At half a guinea each there were plenty
of buyers for the tickets for the Q.V. Hos-
pital Auxiliaries’ cafe chantant at Buckley
and Nunn’s Elizabethan tearoom on Thurs-
day afternoon. The firm lent the room,
putting up some gala decoration, and pro-
viding the four o’clock refreshment. Felix
Lloyd dropped in when teacups had been
cleared and banged a hammer for a Dutch
auction. Employees of the firm subscribed
over £2l. As a side-line there were stalls
of flowers that did not lack for buyers. The
affair was engineered by Mrs. W. M. Robins,
Mrs. Norman Brookes, all in wine color,
from ensemble gown to felt millinery; Mrs.
Felix Lloyd and Adelaide Allan, last-named
being hon. ticket sec. Mrs. W. Brown
Carnegie, who arranged the afternoon’s musi-
cal programme, introduced some of her
pupils. Gertrude Healy played her fiddle,
and Madame Joy McArden, her fairness set
off by an enamel green turnout, lifted her
voice in operatic excerpts. Marie Brem-
ner’s sister Greta, a dainty lass with red
beret and frock, was heard in monologues.
Dawn Harding, Phyllis Dickinson, Archie
Mac Lean and Lennox Brewer, also the mem-
bers of Buckley’s orchestra, gave up some
hours for charity.
The “Big Business” Ball at the Town Hall
last week was a jollo the financial surplus of
which went to the Alfred Hospital. Lord and
Lady Somers joined in the hop, she wear-
ing white crgpe de Chine that had a grace-
ful sweep to its uneven hem. Edward N.
Berry and Muriel McKenzie shared secre-
tarial duties. She wore a soft black gown
with embroidery in pastel tints. The matron
of the Alfred, Mrs. Murdoch Evans, shed
her uniform in favor of black lace and chiffon.
General Brudenell White, Colonel and Mrs.
J. H. P. Eller, she in black georgette, Mr.
and Mrs. W. D. Disher and the Robert
Knoxes, Mrs. Knox in velvet of dark mastic
tone, were dancers. The hall was decked
with fairy lights and balloons, and the stage
was dolled up with gum-trees and ferns.
Some of Eunice Weston’s dancing pupils
contributed to the evening’s entertainment.
Golfers met in foursomes and other
matches at the Commonwealth links the other
day to putt and drive in the financial in-
terest of the Country Women’s Association
Comforts Cupboard and Somers House,
the association’s holiday home at Black
Rock. His Ex. and Lady Somers turned up
with their clubs, Lord Somers partnered
Shirley Tolhurst, and his lady, in a, pale
yellow jersey jumper with a felt hat to match
and tweed skirt, played with Col. Spier. The
president of the Commonwealth Club, R. H.
Morton, and his wife welcomed their Exes.
Mrs. Morton’s saxe-blue cardigan and
jumper topped a grey tweed skirt; and her
hat blended the two hues. About 200 com-
petitors took part in the day’s play, and
smokes and sweets were on sale. Lady
Somers handed over the prizes.
A girl from the Apple Isle, Marjorie Ilodg-
man, changed her name at St. John’s, Too-
rak, last week, when she became Mrs. Austin
Bramwell Smith. The bridegroom was the
eldest son of the J. Greenwood Smiths, of
Hawthorn. Marjorie Brownell and Mar-
garet Fraser crossed the Strait to attend
as ’maids, Phyllis Smith making a third.
Their frocks were of wheat-lined chiffon that
set off sheaves of brown and golden blos.-
soms, and blending straw and tulle hats.
White satin that swept down into a double
train and a veil of Honiton lace were
features of the bridal array. After-rejoicings
took place at the Malvern home of the
Kingsley, Hendersons.
The report of J. E”. Davidson’s sudden
death in London, where he was a member
of the Empire Press Congress, was a great
shock to the large circle of his friends in Mel-
bourne. For many years he was one of
the bright young men of the “Argus”; then,
lured to the “Herald” in the days when
that paper was just beginning to really
thrive, he soon became its general manager
and editor-in-chief. But lie wanted more
freedom than he could have there to express
himself; so with the assistance of friends
he bought first the “Barrier Miner” at
Broken Hill, and after that a whole chain
of papers, including one at Adelaide and
another at Perth. He was a bright jour-
nalist, a very capable administrator and a
brilliant talker. Of late years he had made
his home in Adelaide.
The revival of “The Belle of New York”
at. the Royal on Saturday night was greeted
with joy by a large crowd. Marie Bremner
looks charming in her Salv’army uniform
and bonnet lined with red, and equally effec-
tive is the white and buttercup frilled frock
and feathered poke-bonnet which she wears
when leading the Purity Brigade. Gwyneth
Lascelles, in a sparkling white satin ballet
frock, makes a very dainty Fifi. Amy
Rochelle, in glistening white bridal array and
pink hat, is attended by bridesmaids galore
—some in enamel green and others in white
taffeta, primrose splashed, with airy picture
millinery.
Lord and Lady Somers, accompanied by
Miss M. Somers Cocks, occupied front seats
at the Town Hall on Saturday night for
the Backhaus recital. The v.-r. party stayed
till the last encore number had been given,
and his Ex. joined those who surged towards
the stage to get a closer view of the great
pianist in action. Lady Somers wore a
coat of golden-brown velvet bearing traceries
of gold thread.
Hope Kollow, who had a coming-out party
at No. during the week, is a daughter of
C. B. Kellow, one of the heroes of the
palmy days of cycle-racing 30 years ago;
nowadays a pillar of the motor-importing
trade. Mrs. Kellow, in black velvet, shared
the duties of hospitality with her husband.
The deb. sported orchids on her garnet-red
lace frock. Mrs. .T. McMillan, whose black
gown had a gleam of rhinestones, and Win
Kellow, in black lace, also daughters of
the host and hostess, were on hand.
Mrs. Lucius Conolly, pictured here by
Brootliorn, lately became president of the
Country Women’s Association in place of
Mrs. Norman Barrett. Mrs. Conolly is keenly
interested in Somers House, the association’s
seaside holi-
day home for
out - back
wom e n and
children, and
has in hand,
in aid of
that institu-
tion, arrange-
ments for per-
formances on
June 6 and 7
at the Bijou
Theatre,
Bourke-street,
of a revue en-
titled “Incred-
ible Happen-
ings,” in which
many ama-
teurs will par-
ticipate. This
show was tried
out at Mt.
Macedon at
Easter time, when the Chris. Cowpers’ two
daughters, Beryl and Maisie, engineered the
entertainment. The spoils of the coming
two nights’ season will be shared with the
Women’s Hospital. Mr. Conolly, who is in
the publicity business, will attend to the
advertising.
Old customs die hard. It was hoped the
Hogan Government would scotch the Address-
in-Reply farce, and it went the length of
side-tracking the debate in the Assembly
after the mover and seconder had spoken,
but towards the end of the special session
the formal resolution w T as put through, and
one day last week a round dozen or so from
each House went to the vice-regal office,
Old Treasury,, Spring-street, to weary Baron
Somers with the verbiage. The other House
had some similar gibberish to hand over.
Concealing his boredom, his Ex. gave the
stereotyped reply, and handed a printed
copy to the two knights—Speaker. Peacock
and President Clarke.
The first stone of the spire of the Moor-
house tower of St. Paul’s Cathedral was
laid last week. Jack Langford, son of
George Langford, supervisor of the work,
and grandson of a generous contributor to
the Spire fund, the late Clements Langford,
was called in to put the stone on its mortar
bed, upon a platform 200 feet above the
city. Archdeacon Lamble blessed the cube,
while hundreds of people gazed from the
street below at an unusual scene.
Muriel Cheek, of the pleasant soprano
voice and clear diction, well-known to radio
listeners, is taking her Lyric Choir to Wol-
longong to seek laurels in the competitions.
Violet Parkinson, who adds a voice to her
accomplishments as solo pianist and accom-
panist, is a member of the party, which will
spend a few days in Sydney.
The Misses Monteath, of Gollins-street,
consigned most of their fascinating stock of
knick-knacks to cupboards for a week or
two, to make space for a picture show. The
establishment, with its soft cream-colored
walls, is well suited for such a display. Open-
ing-day brought many interested viewers and
some buyers. Blamire Young’s water-color
“The Golden Sea,” which savors of the
Japanese, and a bush landscape by Harold
Herbert were the leading exhibits.
This aeronautical young lady is Nancy
Lyle, who had her first big thrill a week
or so ago
when she was
a competitor
in the Aerial
Derby. Though
beaten she en-
joyed the ex-
perience. She
is a daughter
of academic
knight T. It.
Lyle and his
lady, of Too-
rak, and has
be c n flying
for about a
year. She is
one of the six
women pilots
produced by
our Aero Club
at Essendon,
and it is on
the cards that
the sextette
may escort Amy Johnson from Canberra.
Miss Lyle's most serious interest in life is
sculpture, which she has studied at the
National Gallery and in England.
Unlike many of her sisters of the Labor
movement, Mrs. Hogan, the Premier’s wife,
shrinks from public speaking. Her shyness
wms noticeable at the opening of the additions
to the Alfred Hospital the other day when
two golden keys were presented to her by
President Michaelis.
Oratorio singer and teacher Madame Mary
Conly introduced at an Austral Salon gather-
ing the other day four of her students, Hazel
Foletta, Phyllis Wiseman, Augusta Poole and
Agnes Saunders, as the Alexandra quartette,
in part-songs and madrigals. The young
songbirds made pleasant music. Another
soloist was Audrey Polsue.
Robert Best’s lady invited some friends to
tea at the Alexandra Club last week to say
au revolt • to Mrs. Roystone Davey after her
six weeks’ sojourn among us. The hostess
blended brown and biscuit tints in her
ensemble. A trio of daughters aided in the
entertaining. Margot Best, who was in
electric blue, lately became engaged to Clive
Douglas.
Mary, only daughter of the principal of
Caulfield Grammar School, W. M. Buntine,
and Mrs. Buntine, said “I will” to Dr.
Allan Wilson, eldest son of the George Wil-
sons, of Springfield, Upwey. Canon Langley
tied the knot at St. Mary’s, Caulfield, aided
by the Rev. P. W. Stephenson. White
crepe meteor falling in soft folds, with a
tulle veil, was worn by the leading lady, her
’maids having silvery headgear and frocks of
roseate hue.
The Y.W.C.A. is grappling with the unem-
ployment problem so far as it relates to
women and girls. Three or four morning-
meetings are being held this week at the
association’s headquarters, and out-of-work
women of every class are invited to attend,
along with representatives of women’s
organisations. Efforts will be made to find
situations, and where training is lacking the
Emily McPherson School of Domestic Eco-
nomy will provide lessons in house manage-
ment, cooking, sewing, knitting and so on
for a certain percentage. Miss Stevenson,
general secretary of the Y.W.C.A., is estab-
lishing an employment bureau.
St. Anthony’s Home is getting some mone-
tary aid through games of cards. A quartette
of enthusiasts in the cause, Mrs. R. J. Dun-
lea, Mrs. J. Dwyer, Mrs. P. McCauley and
Mrs. J. P. Casey, directed a bridge party at
the Victoria for thje orphanage. Of the
£lO,OOO required for additions to the institu-
tion £6OOO is now in the bank.
Grace Whatmore, wlio has been looking
Melbourne over for some weeks, has pur-
chased a car in which she will take her
homeward way to Brisbane,
A tragedy of last w T eek was the sudden
death of Mrs. Frank Bussell, wife of the
Melbourne journalist and barrister. Mrs.
Bussell, who was only about 40, was knocked
down by a motor-truck near Spencer-street
station, and died about an hour afterwards,
her skull being fractured. Before marriage
Phyllis Nesbitt, of Kyneton, she was pretty,
dark-eyed and petite. She had a flair for
home-decoration ; and the Bussell residence at
Darebin was noted for its artistic furnish-
ing and its charmingly laid-out garden. She
was keen on dogs, and lately went in for
motoring, driving her own car.
The Eye and Ear Hospital, which is just
across the road from St. Vincent’s Hospital
at East Melbourne,. wears an entirely new
face, due to the expenditure of £57,000 in
additions and refurbishings. It is the. only
establishment of its kind in Australia, and
has accommodation for 112 patients now,
including men, women and children. The
new wing has brought the institution up to
a very high pitch of efficiency, with operating-
theatres to which are attached cubicles
where patients who have been operated upon
ean rest their nerves before departing for
home. The latest ventilating, heating and
lighting and cooking devices have been
installed. The various auxiliaries have
helped valiantly. The Governor went with
Lady Somers on Thursday afternoon to
launch the hospital on its new career of use-
fulness.
The Housewives’ Association is in a
greater muddle than ever. A meeting held
to unravel the tangle seems to have com-
plicated matters a bit more, and the associa-
tion is less of a happy family than at any
time in its existence. At one stage of a
ruffled meeting the police were called in to
eject an interjector. The assembled house-
wives formed into two parties and held
separate meetings in different parts of the
Town Hall. The books are still being audited,
the members were informed. Alured Kelly
went to the meeting to advocate the wearing
of wool, and gave some hints on the lanndry-
ing of woollen attire, but his hearers Seemed
to be more interested in dirty linen.
A Melbourne girl, Kathleen Coffey, owns
the distinction of being the first-stenographer
to take down a report of a meeting on
the other side of the world by radiophone.
The ’phone was switched on from the G.P.G.
to the International Badio Banquet at Lau-
sanne, amongst the Swiss mountains, and
Miss Coffey had a typewritten report of the
mainly broken-English speeches ready for
director Brown when lie turned up at the
usual hour at his office.
Melbourne’s reception to Amy Johnson has
been planned on unusual lines. To salve the
conscience of folk who disapproved of her
arriving on a racecourse on a Sunday, there
will be, just before her arrival, a short ser-
vice of hymn and prayer as a thanksgiving
fyr the happy termination of the young lady’s
great adventure.
The Women’s National Club has just
transferred its tables and chairs and other
chattels to the new Town Hall Chambers in
Little Collins-street, near the Town Hall.
On Friday the billy was boiled at the new
home by the lion, sec., Mrs. Mowbray Turn-
bull. Mrs. Newell, who read a play, and
Mrs. Fred Bishop, who sang, supplied enter-
tainment. Mrs. Bishop, who is a daughter of
Mrs. A. M. Dale, has been improving her fine
voice abroad. Among those at the house-
warming were the club’s president, the
Weedon lady ; Mrs. Claude Coucliman, presi-
dent of the A.W.NL.; Mrs. William Knox,
patroness of the club ; Mrs. YVatson Bobertson
and Mrs. A. M. Dale.
The Commonwealth Bank Dramatic Club
put on “Nothing but the Truth” for a two--
nights’ season at the Central Hall to help
the Children’s Hospital. W. E. Hunt, as
the young man who told the truth for 24
hours, thereby making innumerable enemies,
shared the laurels with Bee Watson and
Queenie Parnaby. A. Holden-Smith, who
has lately returned from two years’ service
in the C.B. branch at Babaul, gave a good
character-study of a worried broker. Thf;
club has been in existence for three years,
and has worked energetically for charity.
Twenty one-act plays and Barrie’s “Quality-
street”' have been staged during the period.
The bank’s Staff Club supports a cot at
the ■ Children’s Hospital, and also helps to
provide Christmas cheer for the kiddies.
The eight years of usefulness of Mi's. S.
J. Powell and Mrs. M. Howieson in connec-
tion with the Sailors and Soldiers’ Mothers’
Association were recognised at a gathering
of members at Anzac House, Mrs. Gipson,
the president, led the tributes to the two
with flowers, and a former president of
the Beturned Sailors and Soldiers’ League,
Ernest Turnbull, was called in to hand over
an enlarged photograph of Mrs. Powell, to
be hung in Anzac House, and an illumi-
nated address commemorating Mrs. Howie-
son’s good work.


LONDON.
THE FOUR HOTELS WHICH GUARANTEE
LUXURY AND REFINEMENT, WITH
CUISINE OF THE HIGHEST STANDARD.
ALL BEDROOMS HAVE RUNNING WATER
AND EXCHANGE TELEPHONES, GAS
FIRES AND CENTRAL HEATING,
PASSENGER LIFTS TO ALL FLOORS,
GARAGE AND NIGHT PORTER.
HOTEL INVERNESS COURT,
1-9 INVERNESS TERRACE, HYDE PARK, W. 2.
90 Rooms. Terms from 41 guineas.
Telephone 9901 Park (5 lines).
LANCASTER COURT HOTEL,
60-69 LANCASTER GATE, HYDE PARK, W. 2.
100 rooms. Terms from 4 guineas.
Telephone Padd. 9121 (3 lines).
PARK ROYAL HOTEL,
25-28 LEINSTER GARDENS, HYDE PARK, W. 2.
75 rooms. Terms from 31 guineas. Double, 6 guineas.
’Phone Padd. 9712 (3 lines).
BERKELEY COURT HOTEL,
29-31 LEINSTER GARDENS, HYDE PARK, W. 2.
55 Rooms. Terms from 31 guineas. Double 6 guineas.
’Phone Padd. 8022.
HOTEL INVERNESS COURT AND LANCASTER
COURT HOTEL ARE IDEALLY SUITED FOR
RECEPTIONS AND AT-lIOMES.
The above are personally supervised by Mrs. J. E.
Stevenson. Keep these addresses for future references
and friends. Xt'42
ns
:«r ■
<TAI;
MlestM
FT if;
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
„ Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
w
THE PASSGE
BY VANCE PALMER
ILLUSTRATIONS BY ARIA
Synopsis: His father, Bob Cal-
laway, drowned at the bar of the
Passage , Lew has to support Iris
mother, Hughie and two other child-
ren. Lew is a fisherman, satisfied
enough with the life, but slightly dis-
gruntled at the idea of having to carry
the heavy end of the log all his days.
He resents the determination of his
mother (Anna) not to allow Hughie
to become a fisherman. But Hughie, .
Lew admits to himself, has brains; it
was Hughie Uncle Tony called when
anything was wrong with his boat; so
when Kunkel offers Hughie a job at
his store Leiv agrees that he should
taJvc it. Hughie buys a motor-lorry s
and soon is running a car service;
it is tacitly agreed that he is the
L hope of the family.” Anna had been
disturbed over Lew’s attachment for
Clem McNair, daughter of a man
who made money out of patent medi-
cine and has sold a large area of land
on one side of the Passage to Osborne,
w. speculator, who has started a young
township upon it. Lew's diffidence
prevents closer relationship, and Clem,
disappointed, decides to go abroad.
Lew then marries Lena Christensen,
who had been keeping company with
Craig, a surveyor, but had assured
Lew that affair was “all off.”
CHAPTER XVII.
Hughie’s Progress.
NEVER was there a mother who took
more pride in her son than Anna did
in Hughie. His success was like a
romance to her; the flattering things other
people said about him were as exciting as
the first clumsy compliments Bob had
whispered to her as a girl. And his easy-
going affection nourished a part of her that
had been starved. Whatever was flinty or
metallic in her melted away when Hughie
came near, and the hoot of his horn coming
down the road was enough to take the
heaviness out of her step as she moved
about the kitchen. How often he would
say, slipping off his motoring-coat:
“Dance on at the Lavinia Hall to-night,
Mother. Get the tea over early and I’ll
run you and Dot across in the car.”
“What! On a week night?” she would
protest. “Not for me, Hughie. Time I
gave up flying about to dances at my age.
Besides I’m too busy.”
“All right, if you’re talking like that,
Mother, we’ll all play at being busy. I’ll
stay at home and give the car a good
overhaul.”
And she would go in the end, proud that
he really wanted her to go with him, and
even more eager than he jwas, underneath,
to let the spirit of life in her flow out in
the rhythms of the dance.
With what pleasure she watched him
drive off every morning, looking alert and
dapper in his silk motoring-coat and
polished shoes, the sun gleaming on his
oare, curly head and the fittings of his
car! How she hung on the bits of gossip
he brought home!—an account of the new
cook who had come to the hotel, or a
conversation with Osborne at the railway-
station. He had taken over the mail
contract, and had the elder of Dave Wie-
gert’s boys to drive for him. The Lavinia
Ca.r Service was hardly the joke he had
thought it when he first painted the sign
up at the back gate. It had two cars
running and would soon have a third, for
besides passengers going backwards and
forwards to the railway, there were holiday
parties to cater for, people who wanted a
day’s drive to the orchards in the hills
or a picnic at the head of the lagoon.
Gradually the look of Callaway’s place
had changed with the development of the
Lavinia Car Service. The big fibro-cement
garage overshadowed the packing sheds at
the back, and there was a flaring red bowser
near the sign at the gate. Spanning the
yard were the high poles of the wireless
apparatus Hughie had been experimenting
with in his spare time. He had had little
success as yet, but it was always his ambi-
tion to be in the van of any development.
The scientific magazines he took in filled
one whole side of his bedroom and made
it, look like a lumber closet, but Anna,
kept the rest of the house like a
ship s cabin, never complained of his un-
tidiness.
‘‘Don’t go near Hughie’s room,” she told
Dot when she was sweeping. “I’ll do that
when I’ve finished up in the kitchen. He
likes his things kept where he can find
them.”
In every detail of running the house it
was Hughie’s comfort that was considered,
and he took this for granted in his own
casual way. He was the breadwinner, and
it was his money alone that kept the place
going, though occasionally Fred, sent a
cheque from some foreign port and Lew
supplied the family with stores from his
own surplus. But it was Hughie’s con-
fidence, his belief in the future, that made
him so fittingly the head of the house.
Anna drew a sense of security from him
that she had never quite had from Lew.
The world of change and development that
was opening up around her—it belonged to
Hughie as much as anyone. He never gave
you the impression of battling with it; he
skimmed through its air with light wings.
Who could feel when he was talking of
buying allotments near the bathing beach
or floating a little syndicate to provide
Lavinia with a permanent dance hall and
moving pictures that the family would
ever again find it hard to rake together
the few shillings to pay the store bill?
The only thing that troubled Anna was
whether the old home at the Passage was
good enough for Hughie now that lie was
hobnobbing with men like Osborne and
Bailey, the member for the district; taking
“To Lew every word was like a blow between the eyes.”
Mona Bailey out for drives, and going up
on Saturday evenings to play bridge at
Osborne’s house. To her the handful of
houses by the water looked scrubby and
sordid, especially on Sunday mornings when
the cars from the hills were pouring past
to Lavinia, or pulling up at the bowser for
petrol. What did it count that her own
place was tidy and well kept? There,
within a stone’s-throw, were the broken-
down houses of the Wiegerts, patched up
with hammered-out kerosene-tins that had
turned rusty, and standing in yards that
were littered with bottles, discarded tyres
and rubble from the beach! And there was
Albert Wiegert, pottering about the wood-
heap in his bare feet and rolled up pants,
and Dora, blowsy and half-dressed, calling
out news about her throat or the state of
her stomach to Mrs. Dave as she hung her
rags of washing on the line ! The good
money they were earning didn’t seem to
make any difference to the Wiegerts. They
lived as they had always lived, spending
their cheques on gramophone records or
tinned food, things that didn’t show. An
atmosphere of frowsiness always hovered
about the place, even now that the children
were growing up and going off to work.
Their very fowls had a shabby, featherless
look.
But Hughie only laughed when she sug-
gested that he might improve his pros-
pects bjr shifting over to Lavinia.
“I haven’t needed to chase work so far,”
he said. “It’s always chased me. You
don’t want anything better than this, do
you,. Mother?”
“Not for myself,” she told him. “Dot
don’t care, either. You’ve got to think of
your own future, though. This place was
good enough in the old days, but now all
those flash houses are going- up at Lavinia
it looks like the rubbish left by a dropping
tide. This Passage meant the Callaways
once, but now there’s half a dozen Wiegerts
to every Callaway—the men trailing about
barefooted from one year’s end to the other
and the women dressed like sore thumbs.”
Hughie laughed.
“Young Martin doesn’t go barefooted.
Spends more time and money on his clothes
than I do. And he’s going to make a
bobby-dazzler of a driver.”
He had been maturing plans of his own
at the back of his mind all summer as he
drove backwards and forwards over the
sandy road, drank and discussed business
with the commercial travellers at the station
hotel, or paddled about in his canoe among
the sandbanks. When he finally spread his
wings it would be for a longer flight than
to Lavinia!
He was happy in his life, but there were
times when a vague unrest stirred in his
blood, a feeling that his world was not
quite big enough, for him. It came to him
when he was driving back over the hot
road with an empty car, or lying in his
bedroom of an afternoon, trying to lorget
the whisky he had drunk while waiting
for the train. That hanging-about at the
station was irksome, monotonous, a drag
on the vitality. There were always the
same greetings, the same jokes, the same
invitations to the bar across the road:
“Well, Hughie, how’s the dust?....
Couldn’t keep one down, could s r ou,
Hughie? Got any fresh oil about what
Osborne’s doing, Hughie?”
Drinks and more drinks, with the frizzy-
haired barmaid being arch and provoca-
tive, a couple of sleepy boarders wandering
downstairs in their socks and the inevitable
argument about the form of some horse or
other cropping up and developing till a
shrill whistle came from down the line!
The}' - had been stimulating to Hughie
once, these gatherings in McGuire’s bar,
but now they had the flatness of stale beer.
And too many drinks jn the morning left
the afternoons empty and withered, a
fag-end of time from which the freshness
had been sucked beforehand.
But never had Lavinia been more gay
than that summer, with crowds of brown-
limbed surfers sprawling on the white
beaches, fishing parties whirling down to
the Passage in. cars, and young men and
girls dancing through the long afternoons
in bathing suits and beach capes at the
cafe on the headland to the music of a
racketty piano jazzed up by a petrol-tin.
It, wasn’t a place a man would be eager
to leave. The opal water, the cloudless
skies, the sketchy white-and-red houses
among the banksia, all had the one thing to
say:
“Life’s here, not somewhere else. Don’t
waste time tracking over the skyline after
rainbows. What’s better than a loaf in
the sun?”
As soon as he had come home with his
passengers and eaten his lunch, Hughie
would take his surf board and make his
way along the sands to the Lavinia Beach.
No need to brood over future plans as long
as summer lasted, and the sea had a lazy
warmth in it! He was a figure on the
beach, and even the visitors knew him.
“That’s Hughie Callaway,” they would
say as he came shooting in on a. breaker.
“Runs the Lavinia Car Service, but be-
longs to the crowd down at the Passage.
All of them are as much at home in the
water as mullet, even the girls.”
It was pleasant for Hughie to feel he
could idle like the rest without slipping
back in his work or losing a chance of
business. To Mona Bailey, Osborne’s
daughter, and the bevy of flappers who


PROVED!
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE.
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
CLIFTON GARDENS HOTEL
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Limited).
Sydney’s well-known Harbor Hotel
m
Finn rrtfiniinii-nrr
m
000 LuamurmM obi
. TSi
K X
5" v y
QUIET and RESTFUL—
an ideal Winter Home, as
Warm in Winter as the
South of France. The
Most Sheltered Spot on
the Harbor, with Private
Beach and Amphitheatre
Swimming Baths, Spacious
Grounds and Garage
Accommodation.
TARIFF:
From 4J Guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTER-
NOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes’
trip from City by Ferry
or Motor.
Overlooking Harbor and Ocean. RESERVATIONS: Y 3012 (4 lines)
went about with them, he was the ideal
young man of leisure, with a car to whirl
about in, and enough free time to provide
them with all the outings they wanted.
Usually they took Lena with them on their
jaunts. She liked the company of girls
younger than herself, and was beginning to
find life a little flavorless at the Passage
now that the novelty had worn off and
Anna was growing dry about the way she
needed Dot to help her in the house.
But with the coming of the monsoonal
weather the holiday life flowed away from
Lavinia. Rain belched from watery skies;
the sea turned slaty-grey and was filled
with floating weed; mosquitoes issued in
clouds from the quaggy swamps inland.
The summer visitors packed their traps and
hurried back to town. Only at the further
headland, where gangs of men were still
rolling greens, carting building material,
and putting the finishing touches to the
grand new hotel that was to be opened in
the spring, was there any illusion of a.
pleasure-resort left.
Hughie, running his empty car through
the mud, thought of the lean months ahead.
Always at this time he had a sense of
falling back, of losing part of what he had
gained.
“The winter’s all right for the fisher-
men,” he told himself wryly. “But I’m a
fisher of men.”
Some day Osborne’s schemes might come
to fruition and Lavinia grow into a well-
known winter resort, attracting people from
the south, but was it worth while to wait?
CHAPTER XVIII.
A Break.
' A sense of having been away for a long
time was in Lew’s mind as the Dugong
rounded the last mangrove-clad bluff and
threaded its way through the sandbanks
towards the jetty. After a week in town
the first glimpse of the familiar huddle of
houses at the entrance to the Passage was
always exciting to him. There was the
lighthouse on the hill, like a stick of chalk
tipped with henna, the waves churning to
foam on the bar a mile away, the stretches
of grass running down green to the smooth
banks. Lovely the clumps of! she-oaks
looked, drooping their mournful plumes
over the still water. Reassuring as ram-
parts the sandhills of Rathbone. Island that
humped themselves up protectively to
guard, the little port from the outer sea!
Light pouring down from above, sparkling
from wave tip and sand crystal below!
Lew had at last brought himself to
arrange for anew boat a.nd had been
going over plans with the builders to make
sure that his conceptions were carried out
to the last detail. It was a big enterprise
to him with his fear of new commitments,
but Lena had laughed at his doubts. Money
didn’t send out shoots like potatoes if you
buried, it in the ground, she argued; you
had to scatter it if you wanted to make it.
Lew hadn’t enough of the gambler in him
where money was concerned; he would risk
his neck more lightly than his savings.
“Perhaps,” he admitted. “I got the one
for nothing, but I’ve had to work damned
hard for the other.”
He watched for her as the boat edged
into the jetty, but Tom Rahilly was the
only one waiting there to meet him,
squatting among the bags of shell grit, with
the top part of his face hidden by a shiny-
peaked cap he had picked up somewhere
or other. It gave him a responsible, almost
an official look. He had lately grown fatter,
more rounded, and was taking his job as
controller of the storage sheds with a seri-
rness that was almost comic. When his
v boat was built, Lew reflected, he would
r e to offer the running of it to old Tom
and chance the consequences. Tom knew
channel almost as well as McEvoy
now, and it wasn’t likely he would get
drinking when there was a heavy respon-
sibility on his shoulders.
“Better go over and have a look at
Hughie,” the old chap said when they had
exchanged greetings. “He came a cropper
a few nights ago.”
A shadow flickered across Lew’s eyes.
“What’s wrong, Tom? Anything serious?”
“Oh, no—nothing to make a song about.
The car turned turtle with him at the
Seven-mile Bridge and he was lying out
in the rain for awhile. They brought the
quack out but he didn’t find anything
wrong with him except a broken collar-
bone and a few crushed ribs. Only—well,
your mother was worried by the way he
looked when he came home.”
He hesitated for awhile, a diffidence in
his pale eyes and vague, sun-blotched face.
“Strikes me you ought to have a word
with young Hughie, Lew. Been bending
his elbow a bit too much lately, I reckon.”
Lew laughed.
“Pot and kettle, Tom.”
“Oh no, I won’t have that,” Rahilly
said with quaint seriousness. “We don’t
belong in the same galley—me and Hughie.
I had my kink before he was weaned from
the other bottle.”
There was a slight uneasiness in Lew’s
mind as he went over to the cottage. He
had been seeing very little of . Hughie
lately, for his own evenings were mainly
spent in going over accounts and bills of
lading, but he felt his young brother must
have been running rather wild if old Tom
was moved to speak so solemnly. Perhaps
it was merely a matter of the affection
Hughie drew toward him, though! Every-
one felt it his business to watch over the
boy.
He found Hughie lying propped up
among the pillows with a pile of magazines
and cigarette butts around him, looking out
of the window at the men unloading the
boat. There was nothing much wrong with
him now that the bones were knitting,
except a slight cough, and his smile was
as spontaneous and sunny as ever. He
joked about his accidents Over a foot of
water in the creek where they had found
him, and every part of him covered but
his head, which was propped up on a
tussock of rushes! And the car hadn’t
been damaged badly; it had turned clean
over and righted itself. If it had capsized
a little further on there would have been
a drop of nearly thirty feet!
“Better to be born lucky than rich,”
he said with a grin.
Lew agreed guardedly that there was
something in that.
“You must have come to light under a
good star, Hughie. When you wei-e three
you fell off the rails of Uncle Tony’s
verandah on to a tiger-snake and it slipped
off into the grass without striking. Uncle
Tony used to say you could look forward
to dying in your own feather bed at ninety
after that.”
In the face of Hughie’s cheerfulness the
good advice he had intended to give him
stuck in his throat like a thread of fish-
bone. He loved the boy; he couldn’t
bear to play grandmother to him. Besides
Hughie might begin to bristle if he sug-
gested that a couple of drinks too many
at the- township hotel had been the cause
of the accident. He was proud of his
driving and his reputation on the road.
But while he was wondering, in his slow
way, if there really had been anything in
Rahilly’s hints, Hughie said suddenly:
“They didn’t tell you I was thinking of
pulling out, did they, Lew?”
Lew came to attention with a jerk.
“Pulling out?”
“Selling the goodwill of the business
here, such as it is, and making a start in
town. There’s a fellow named Santley
I met at Osborne’s who wants me to go
into partnership with him. He’s got a
little capital and any God’s quantity of
experience. We were thinking of opening
a garage in a small way and gradually
bi’anching out.”
Lew felt a cloud pass over the sun. He
didn’t know till then how dependent he
was on Hughie; a large part of the sober
joy he took in life came from watching
Hughie grow before his eyes, from feeling
him near, from being able to call him over
for a smoke and a yarn when he had
leisure. He remembered the long battle
he had had with his mother when she had
wanted to send Hughie away to school.
“Sure you’re not chucking away the bone
for the shadow?” he said doubtfully.
“Oh, Lord, no!” laughed Hughie. “No
one’s sure of that. If they were, there
wouldn’t be any fun in the game. It’s not
such a hell of a risk, though. There are
plenty of opportunities down there.”
“Plenty of opportunities,” repeated Lew.
“But not such a good life. What are you
after, anyway, Hughie? I thought you
were satisfied with the way things were
going hei'e?”
“So I am,” said Hughie promptly.
He was silent for a while, as if troubled
by two tides that were conflicting in him.
“No, I’m not,” he added. “Not really.
I feel as if I’d come to a bit of a dead-
end here. It’s all right in summer, when
there are plenty visitors, but lately I’ve
hardly, paid for my petrol. And it’s not
that, either. I’m sick of hanging round the
station, waiting for the train or putting in
time at the pub, matching half-dollars for
drinks. I can’t carry as much as the other
fellows—and lately I’ve been spending most
of my afternoons sleeping it off. Too
muddy-headed even to go out in the canoe.”
It was an exaggeration, Lew felt, but it
represented one side of Hughie’s unrest.
There were deeper forces at work, though.
Life to Hughie was largely movement,
innovation, change. Its rhythm was no
longer fast enough for him at the Passage.
He wanted to be in some centre where he
could match his capacities against those of
other men, draw in a continual stimulus
from the energies of people around, feel
in the vibration and hum of ceaselessly-
moving wheels that he was part of a city
that was linked to other cities all around
the world.
Lew could only faintly understand the
pull town had for Hughie. He himself
liked life to move to a more natural
rhythm, like that of the tides or the
wheeling sun. He felt he was nearer the
heart of things when watching the clouds
change color after sunset, or the berried
waterweeds swaying in a deep pool, than
when drifting down a street with a crowd.
But there was no use arguing about such
matters. There was nothing to argue about,
really; only threads of feeling that were
the stuff of a man’s life! Hughie a.nd he
were made differently.
“What about Mother?” he said. “She
and Lena don’t hit it too well these days.
Not like they did at first. I don’t see
them living together.”
“No, I’ll look after Mother,” Hughie
told him. “She’d like a change from here
more than she’ll ever own. And I sup-
pose Dot will come with her. We haven’t
talked about plans much. It’s all in the
air.”
Yet there were sheets of paper strewn
about his bed covered with figures, notes,
addresses, that showed he had gone into
the matter very thoroughly. He was opti-
mistic about renting the cottage to the
Haigs, anew family who had come to the
Passage and were living in tents by the
saltwater creek. Haig had been in the
railways and had been sacked with a hand-
ful of others, but lie was a steady, solid
man who knew something about fishing and
would be glad of the chance to take over
the boats and tackle. Then Reardon, who
had sold him his first truck years ago, had
just come back to Lavinia and was look-
ing around for a little business that would
suit him. He might be willing to take
over the car service if the Wiegerts weren’t
able to put up the money.
“Step into my shoes like I did into his,”
said Hughie with a twinkle. “Though he
won’t find as many stumps on the road as
I did.”
They talked of Lew’s new boat, of the
opening of the hotel and golf links, of
Osborne’s chances of getting a light rail-
way to Lavinia; but it was plain that
Hughie was not as absorbed in these things
as before. He was living in a different
future. His voice thinned, and his eyes
wandered to the scraps of paper on which
he had been scribbling. A sense of some
final separation was making itself felt in
Lew’s mind; you walked along beside
people till you found you were on opposite
sides of a gulf that widened the further
you went on. Who would he have to yarn
with now in the timeless summer evenings,
when the moon came flooding over the
Passage and vague thoughts stirred in a
man’s mind as he lay on the grass by the
breakwater? There was so much of what
went on inside him that he couldn’t share
with Lena. He had already discovered that.
His mother was not in the kitchen when
he went out to speak to her, but through
the window he saw her coming over the
green from a bathe, a saffron wrapper over
her shoulders. For a few moments he stood
watching her, as if he hadn’t seen her for
years. How youthful she looked, in spite
of her heavy figure! With what lightness
her bare feet moved over the cropped turf!
She stopped by the breakwater to speak
to one of the little Haig boys and some-
thing in the very stillness of her body
made Lew conscious of the strong flow
of life in her. He was carried back to
childish memories of her, when she had
left him sprawling on a sandbank and
waded waist-deep into the water to help
his father with the net. Powerful and pro-
tective she had seemed then, with hei
strong limbs and her jet-black hair strag-
gling over her eyes.
“Hughie been telling you about his
plans?” she asked when he came down to her.
“A little,” .he admitted. “They seem a
bit sketchy as yet. I’d rather he didn’t do
anything in a hurry.”
“Oh, trust Hughie not to go chasing
shadows,” she said. “He’s worked every-
thing out. It’s been in his head for months,
though he hasn’t talked about it much. I
didn’t advise him one way or the other.
It’s his own affair.”
She asked Lew about the boat as they
walked back. Had he really decided to
build anew one? And what were the
chances of getting solid backing from the
people on the range? But all the while,
as she talked, he could feel that Hughie’s
plans were in her mind, working there like
yeast and putting a buoyancy into her
tone. All her married days she had re-
mained as still as an oyster on a rock,
washed by the same tides. Now at last
there had come a definite movement!
“I don’t know that I want to leave here
myself,” she said, a little sentimentally.
“There’s not a stone or a tree about this
Passage that doesn’t remind me of your
father, and days when I came here
first Hughie wants someone to keep
house for him, though, and he’s the one
to be thought of now.”
And a little later she said with a jerky
smile:
“Pity you had the whole crowd of us
on your back when you were younger.
Lew! It didn’t give you a fair chance.”
So unusual was the personal note be-
tween them that Lew was moved.
“All the chance I wanted. Mother. I’d
have stuck here, anyway. When I look
back I don’t feel anything’s kept me
down.”
He hadn’t the faintest sense of having
been thwarted. And he was happy because
from his mother’s tone he could feel that
some hard crust covering her had broken.
She had forgiven him for holding Hughie
back. Well, now that that old grudge was
done with, they might be frank and inti-
mate again, as they had once been.
It wasn’t likely that they would see much
of one another, though. The close life of
the clan was breaking up. Perhaps it was
just as well, he thought, as he walked back
to the boat! He would miss Hughie and
Dot, but the last few months had shown
the necessity for separating his mother and
Lena by a distance greater than the hundred
yards of green.
CHAPTER NIX.
At the Lagoon .
It was the Sunday before the departure
of Hughie and the family for town, a
bright August day with a cold sparkle in
the air; and at Anna’s suggestion they had
all driven over to the lagoon, five miles
up the coast, where a great sheet of shallow
water was separated from the sea by a bar
of sand.
“We must have a day together,” she had
urged Lew. “It’ll probably be long enough
before we get the chance again.”
And he had agreed that it probably
would be long enough.
A curious surrender to sentiment had
taken place in Anna now that she was
leaving the Passage. Memories of her
early days there, that had been overlaid
by the rubble of the daily round, were
uncovering themselves. For almost the
first time she talked of Bob as if he were
near and living, and often she went off
alone to sit by the breakwater and stare
over at the sandbanks. There was at such
times something at once deep and childish
in her dark eyes, a sense of the mystery of
life. What was it in her that reached out
now, against her will, towards the trees,
stones and water of this place she had
always despised? Why was she troubled
by a yearning to gain contact with Bob,
that wraith-like figure that had begotten
children upon her and faded into a dream?
She sat in the sun, the picnic baskets
around her and her back against the bole
of a banksia, while Hughie and Mona
Bailey slid down the steep sandhills into
the water and Lew and Dot trailed along
the banks with a spear and- a hand-net,
looking for crabs. A few yards away Lena
lay in the tree’s shadow, a handkerchief
(Continued on page 45.)


HOME for cure of ALCOHOLISM and DRUGS
Fully qualified matron
(BOTH SEXES)
Established 30 years. Highly recommended. Under medicai supervision.
and staff. Effective and safe.
THE CENTRAL MISSION INSTITUTION,
Moreland Hall, Jessie Street, Moreland, Melbourne.
Tpipnhone : Brunswick 744.
Some of the finest old cut glass, prized by collectors,
•was made in earlier days by Stuarts of Stourbridge,
England Descendants of the very craftsmen who
made it are making glass as beautifully to=day. Below
is a group from a modern Georgian pattern service.
Each piece—which can be bought
separately has the name
'Stuart' etched on the glass.
m
E
jk
towwoiS
8w»
■ mm
twart
i|
English Hand*ma.de Crystal
Obtainable -wherever beautiful glass is sold
e
,sj HAIR
0%
HIRES
■ufhu -
w
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
StPOU&ris CMEXKAN)
WcUnut Stidn,
''REMOVES THE GREY"
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (4/6), 6d. being postage.
fp
If any illustration in “The Bulletin’
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Amusements,
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD,
vl’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tuit.
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
CRITERION: LET US BE GAY.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
° MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE BELLE OF NEW YORK.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE:
LORD AND LADY ALGY.
With WM. FAVERSHAM, ANN DAVIS
and Special Company.
(COMMENCING JUNE 7.)
ING ’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LEON GORDON in
THIS THING CALLED LOVE.
(COMMENCING JUNE 7.)
UOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
■ MELBOURNE.
ALL TALKIE PROGRAMME.
IT’S A GREAT LIFE,
With the DUNCAN SISTERS.
ALSO
WM. BOYD a.s
OFFICER O’BRIEN.
(Conditional Picture.)
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The only topic of conversation of any
importance this last week has • been Amy
Johnson. The bright-looking lass from over-
seas literally dropped in upon us on Thurs-
day, when her ’plane hit a post and spilled
her on to Eagle Farm flying ground. Her
brown hair is bobbed, not shingled, and she
took her tumultuous welcome in a jersey
and khaki riding-breeches. Governor Good-
win and Mayor Jolly said what we all felt,
and Miss Johnson, in a cheery, modest reply,
said she wasn’t a bit tired. Perhaps she
wasn’t, but her nerves must be, and a really
paternal Commonwealth Government would
have told her to take a rest from flying
and snuggle in a railway carriage for' the
rest of her journey. We don’t want this
brave young woman to endanger her life
and limbs by flying all over Australia after
such an ordeal as she has been through.
Miss, Johnson rested in the afternoon and
early evening, but was routed out again about
nine at night to face the N.C.W.’s welcome
at the Town Hall. Next morning, she went
to the Town Hall again, to be received by
Mayoress Jolly, after which the AV.C.T.U.
took her to its bosom, and then our medical
Governor stepped in and sent the aviatrix
to bed. On his advice, backed up by a plea
from the Air Board, she is to fly to Sydney
as a passenger. She stayed at Government
House during her sojourn here.
Sybil Lucas and Jules Moxon flew away
in an air-mail ’plane after being married in
St. John’s Cathedral by Archdeacon Dixon.
The church was decked with white roses.
The bride was in white broche with a Swiss
hand-embroidered train, lent by Mrs. Morris
Briggs. _Tlie tulle veil was lent by Mrs.
Allen Wright and was worn like a cap with
orange blooms across the back of the head.
Janet Lucas and El vie Enwright ’maided
in dawn-pink with Juliet caps of pale pink.
Silver-pink carnations, gladioli and blue del-
phiniums were their posies.
At the meeting of the Bush Nursing Asso-
ciation, with Mrs E. S. Jackson in the
chair, the secretary said she had inquiry
from S’Africa for particulars of the Bush
Nursing scheme. The association’s present
credit balance is over £5OO.
Mrs. J. E. S. Plumridge, who lately-died
under an operation, was president of the
Sandgate branch of the C.W.A Sandgate
School of Arts and the Yacht Club owed
much to her efforts.
Lady Goodwin paid an unofScial visit to
the Kelvin Grove Kindergarten. Mrs. A. E
Moore and Miss Cochrane received her Ex.’
and Hesper Cattermull handed her a bunch
of red and pink roses.. Kiddies gave the
college cry and songs, and then there was
afternoon tea.
For the consecration of the new Bishop
of Townsville, Dr. McGuire, one of the
biggest crowds ever seen in that town
gathered about the Sacred Heart Church.
In one of the front seats were the Mayor
and Mayoress, Justice and Mrs. Doug-
las, and the Italian Consul, Count di San
Mazano. Archbishop Cattaneo consecrated
the Bishop. Archbishop Duhig and the
other dignitaries were received by a guard
of honor of Hibernians.
WE STB ALIA.
Perth.
Jan Kubelik's opening recital was a huge
success; at his second the audience over-
flowed on to the stage. The little man with
the big forehead is 50, five years Kreisler’s
junior, and his playing is exquisite. A recep-
tion was tendered the virtuoso by the Music
Teachers’ Association in the 'Karrakatta
Club Hall. President C. H. Huddle was
assisted by two daughters, one in rose-pink
moire and the other in primrose. The Wen-
d'owie Quartette gave items, Miss Sherlock
and Miss Hood played on two pianos, and
Frank Robertson and Lucy Howell sang.
Another welcoming for Kubelik and his
accompanist, Otto Nasa, was a Uni. function
in the Physics Lecture Hall. Vice-Chancellor
and Mrs. Whitfeld, the latter in powder-blue
flowered satin and a little black bridge coat
introduced the guests. Mrs. Ross, in black
lace over shell-pink, came along with her
Professor, who made a welcoming speech.
Three graduates, Phyllis Blott, Marcia
Hodges and C. L. Jenkins, provided a musi-
cal programme.
A bevy of new players, very smart in gay
jumpers and berets or hard little Johnnie
caps, becoming only to youth, cheerfully
entered for the mixed foursomes on the
opening day of the new links at Mt. Yokine.
Ram damped their new togs, but it did not
lower their enthusiasm over the beauties of
the course. Many visitors motored out the
five miles for tea, served on the verandah and
in the lounge with its thick blue-felted floor.
After lunch the Governor launched the links
by driving a* straight ball from the first tee.
Followers of the hounds polished up their
boots and anxiously scanned their apparel
for tracks of the hungry moth for the Hunt
Club’s opening meet. Refreshment was
spread among rusty-red and gold chrysanthe-
mums at the Belmont, from whence riders
and hounds moved off over the green mush-
room spotted paddocks. More cars than usual
spun out to see the fun. President’s wife,
Mrs. D. D. Harris, was there with her
daughter, also the Jack Duracks, Elizabeth
Kerr-Pearse, Colonel le Souef and daughter
Nancy, Madeleine Durack and Mrs. Gilbert
Troupe.
The “Spooks” season at the Assembly
Hall was successful. The second act only
had been played before in Perth, so the end
gave the surprise necessary to the effect of
the piece. Ned Taylor gave an excellent por-
trayal of the scared hero, and Bob Swan,
Joan Good and Edna Russell earned laurels.
The Stork brought an Empire Day present
to Mr. and Mrs. Basil Parsons in London.
The baby is called Mary Elizabeth Swift: her
proud mother was songbird Veronica Mans-
field.
A quiet wedding was celebrated one recent
evening in the Church of St. John the Divine
between Babs, elder daughter of Mrs. Ernest
Chase, and a young Englishman, Allan
Parkes.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The Adelaide women who did such won-
derful work in war days are again to the
fore in an effort to feed the hungry ones in
this city. The old Cheer-up Hut has been
re-opened, and out-of-work Diggers can now
get one good meal a day, while suits of
clothes have been begged to fit out as many
as possible. Mayoress Bonython has
called a meeting of women to assist in the
distribution of general relief.
Dr. Arthur P. Amies, of Melbourne, son
of Air. and Airs. A. Amies, of Toorak,
Adelaide, came over last week to marry
Geraldine Collee, who arrived from Edin-
burgh in the Aloldavia. They met as
students when the bridegroom was taking
degrees abroad. Chalmers kirk was beauti-
fully decorated. The bride, gowned in white
moire, wore a bridal veil over a century old
that she brought with her.
The linking of the Lud Alayor’s eldest
daughter, Betty, to Keith Wilson was a recent
social event. The wedding took place at St.
John’s, and the reception afterwards at the
Lavingfon Bonythons’ beautiful home,
St. Corantyn, East-terrace. Flowers were
massed in every room, and the wedding tea
was served in a huge marquee. The pretty
bride wox*e white ninon, flounced from waist
to hem. Four bridesmaids were in forget-
ine-not blue moire, with felt hats to match,
and two nice little boys sported long pale
blue trousers and white satin shirts. Mrs.
Bonython was in black ring velvet. Betty
was the last of her three step-children to
marry, and Jack Bonython presented their
stepmother with an inscribed silver tray as
a mark of their affection.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
_ This is Norq Perkins, whose recent exhi-
bition of her designs in hand-woven Tas-
manian tweeds
and woollens
drew a crowd
to the Im-
perial. Then,
packing u p
her loom, she
ran up to the
Ij a u n ceston
Art Society’s
show and held
a successful
demonstration
there. T h e
little lady has
a good eye for
color, and her
goods are at-
tractive. No
two of her
pieces are
woven on the
same pattern,
so wearers
need neve r
fear duplication. Miss Perkin.s learnt her
art from Elizabeth Jenkins, whose studio on
Mt. Wellington is still going strong.
A sunny day drew a bigger crowd than
usual to the races at Elwick. Chairman
and Mrs. Lindsay Miller gave tea and smiles
to many guests in the private pavilion.
Dressing was wintery, with tweeds well to
the fore. Among patrons were Mrs. Tom
Lyons, the A. M. Stoyles, home from their
trip to the mainland, the Frank Fays, Dr
and Mrs. Arthur Giblin, Mrs. McMinn, Mrs.
Claude Boag, the Eric Brocks, the Battens,
Mrs. Colin Kennedy and daughter Naomi
and the Fred Grants.
The Midland Hunt Club had the biggest
field of the season when it met at Ashby,
Ross, where members were entertained by
the two families of Bennett, whose estates
adjoin. The-Drag was taken by Mr. and
Mrs. Arthur Bennett. There were some
stiff fences, but no accidents. Spectators in
cars and on horseback turned out in force.
His; Ex. invested Mrs. Styant Browne and
Mrs. T. K. Robson with the insignia of
the Order of St. John of Jerusalem at
the Town Hall on his last visit to the north-
ern capital. Mrs. Browne was secretary to
the St. John Ambulance Society for 20
years before handing over to Mrs. Robson.
Mrs. W. K. Mclntyre and Dr. Holman
were jointly responsible for the success of
the Launceston Players’ production of “Out-
ward Bound” at the Academy Theatre. There
were no weak spots in the cast, and the
staging and dressing were good. Clever
little Alison Frazer made a hit as the char-
woman, Mrs. Midgett.
His Ex. opened the Ideal Home Exhibition in
the Albert Hall, Launceston. Crowds rolled up
to the show, which was nicely staged, and
showed rationalised versions of the modern
small dwelling. Sideshows displayed models
of lighthouses, timber mills and electric
trains, and all manner of local manufactures
were represented. The Launceston 50,000
League was responsible for the show.
The A. L. Vannecks have left the Speck
for the Cold Country. Mrs. Vanneck, for-
merly Nancy Ross-Reynolds, was entertained
and farewelled by her circle before leaving.
A cheery gathering was that hostessed by
Mrs. Allan Mclntyre in her home in Went-
wortli-street, where a muster of the clan
Mclntyre and many other friends wished
the lady luck.
The Rose Day appeal was responsible
for a lot of activity, social and otherwise.
Quite a big affair was the bridge party
at the Town Hall, arranged by the Rose
Day committee, with Mayoress Soundy in
the lead. A big red rose decorated each
table. . The. day was gloriously fine, favor-
ing good business in street stalls, and the
Blind. Deaf and Dumb Institution benefited
considerably.


bit the shave
W.
w
s
g
SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
Made of a special steel with extra
keen edges that last and
give a cleaner, far,
far better shave.
Australian Agent:
H. E. UTTLEY, Margaret House,
282 George Street, Sydney.
From Stores,
Chemists and
Hairdressers.
Kirby Beard and
Co., Ltd., Raven-
hurst Works, Bir-
mingham, Eng.
Also London, Red-
ditcli and Baris.
e
rKIRBY.BEARD &Cy^dl
LJ P
w
' Cub sig to be"
YOU’VE known your set to flirt with
facts ... to suggest that the singer
had a cold or the announcer a megaphone.
That’s easily remedied —by the substitu-
tion of one or more of your valves with
the new 4-volt A.C.
Osrams.
Ask your dealer for
Osram Valves they
are of sturdy, honest
British manufacture.
If you cannot obtain
the valve you need it
will be sent direct, safe
delivery guaranteed.
The “ Osram Valve
Guide”—a helpful
little book will be
sent free on request.
VA-L 4
mi
Gives wonderful results
as an amplifier in the
audio-frequency stage
also as a small power
valve.
SPECIFICATIONS:
Fil. Volts 4.0
Fil. Current .. 1.0 amp.
Plate Volts .. 200 max.
Amp. Factor 6
Impedance .. 3,000 ohms.
Normal Slope ..
2.0 ma/volts
Equivalent .. ... E 409
jke New
Made in England
Advertisement of the British General Electric Co. Ltd.
Head Office & Public Showrooms: 104-114 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Branch Offices and Public Showrooms at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth,
Newcastle and N.Z. cities. Sole Agencies at Brisbane and Hobart.
VE2
over her face. She had been in high spirits
during the drive out, sitting on the front
seat with Hughie and Mona Bailey and
starting fragments of songs in her rich
contralto as they bumped over the rutty
track; but a sudden change had come over
her when she was left alone with Anna.
The two of them were always self-conscious
in each other’s presence, hiding beneath a
forced civility the antagonism that was
growing between them. Before Lew had
been married many weeks, Anna had
formed her own judgment on the girl he
had brought home, her sharp eyes missing-
nothing of Lena’s laziness, the sketchy
nature of her housework, her fondness for
buying tinned things at the store rather
than for cooking a real dinner in her own
kitchen. One morning she had come upon
Lena lying across an unmade bed reading
a novel, and the restraint she had put on
her tongue then had been one of the
greatest achievements of her life. But
Lena had sensed what was going on in her
mind, then and at other times, and had re-
acted in her own way. It was a good job
Lew’s mother was going, she felt. If they
had to live much longer within a stone’s-
throw of one another, the storm that was
gathering in her blood would surely burst.
How she longed to shock Anna, just once,
to the very marrow of her spine!
She brushed the handkerchief from her
eyes and sat up, her eyes blinking at the
strong sunshine. Far up the lagoon she
could see Lew and Dot, bareheaded and
in their bathing suits, wading about in the
shallow water and stopping now and then
to pick some object up in, their net. In
the distance they looked like children. A
twinge of jealousy shot through Lena as
she realised Lew’s happiness and absorp-
tion, wandering about there with Dot. She
could almost hear their chatter, bubbling
out. without thought or constraint —cries of
excitement when they started a shoal of
mullet, warnings to one another about a
stingaree lying in the shallows, animal
cries of pleasure when, the flung spear
pierced a sleeping flathead. How tense
and shot with a quivering life Lew looked
when he stopped suddenly and poised him-
self for a throw, one leg advanced slightly
and the weight thrown on the other! With
what eagerness Dot slipped after him as
they moved on! She herself had never
achieved that easy comradeship with Lew
when they were out together; perhaps
neither of them had tried to achieve it.
But now that this new life was stirring
within her....
Half furtively she turned her gaze to
Lew’s mother, who was leaning against the
banksia, her body relaxed and her eyes
closed. There was a rough beauty about
Anna’s face in repose. It looked strong,
like that of a man, the features clearly
marked and the contours firmly moulded,
hardly a wrinkle showing on the dark,
tightly-stretched skin. Hardly a grey
thread, either, in the mass of coarse hair
that was cropped on the back of her neck
and fell in a tumult over her forehead!
Serene and unconscious as an image, she
seemed, leaning back there against the
tree, yet Lena noticed a faint tension in
the muscles round her mouth.
“She’s not really asleep,” she told her-
self. “Only pretending. She doesn’t want
to have to talk to me Oh, well, I’m
not dying to hear anything she’s got to say.”
Rising, she went to the steep bank and
stood with her hands linked behind her
head, looking down at Hughie and Mona
Bailey stretched out on the hot sand near
the water. They were not talking, merely
letting the sun soak in through their pores
and their bodies melt into the sand.
Hughie’s skin was already a deep pink, but
the girl’s brown limbs seemed proof against
the strong light. Something in their round-
ness and smoothness sent a pang of envy
through Lena. She wandered over to a
clump of tea-tree near the ocean beach and
lay down on her back, staring up into the
stiff, metallic foliage overhead.
A soft crashing of waves like the splinter-
ing of fine glass, the movement of horny
beetles over the dry, fallen bark, a faint
raining of powdery sand on the bleached
pandanus-leaves! Lena, stretched prone
on the coarse seagrass, had a sense of life
flowing past her, leaving her stranded on
some bare island in unfamiliar seas. She
felt moody and dispirited. The image of
Mona Bailey, curled up in the hot sand,
was before her eyes, and a secret humilir
ation nagged at her. No longer could she
feel a delight in her own body! It was
heavy and lethargic, drained of the energy
that was its essence, and belonging less to
her than to the strange blind power that
had invaded it.
Grey thrushes called from the cool depths
of lantana in the gully behind, the light
made chequered patterns among the leaves,
the afternoon was drowsy with the clicking
of cicadas. In the soft, liquid light the
rounded hillocks of sand seemed to melt
and lose their form. Time itself became
fluid, rolling backwards and forwards like
the waves*’ merging the present with the
past. Lena was racing over the hard sand
on her pony, the wind in her open mouth,
her hair streaming behind, the soft thud of
hoofs in her ears. With every bound of
the pony beneath her she was conscious of
the youth that danced in her veins. She
looked over her shoulder and laughed. The
head of the man behind her was bent over
his horse’s mane and she didn’t see his
face. Only when she had reined up her
panting pony in the shade of the pan-
danus palms and slipped off into the sand
did she catch a glimpse of his eyes, hot,
avid, and filled with a glittering light. His
uneven breath was mixed with her own
“Coming for a dip, Lena?”
Lew’s voice, breaking in upon her dream,
brought her back to reality with a jerk.
He looked heavy and wooden, standing
there with his wet towel round his waist
and a bundle of dry clothes over his arm.
Sitting up she returned his gaze with eyes
unlit, moodiness falling over her face like
a cloud.
“No, I don’t want to bathe.”
“Oh, rot, of course you do. I’ve brought
your togs over, and you can strip in the
bushes there.”
“Thanks, you needn’t have troubled. I’m
not going in.”
“But why, Lena?”
“Why? Are you so deadly anxious
everyone should see my figure?”
A partial understanding showed on his
face. He squatted on his heels in front
of her, plucking at a blade of grass with
his thick fingers.
“Your figure’s all right. Nothing any-
one would notice about it. Besides we’re
not on a public beach. There aren’t any
strangers here.”
“There’s your mother. I’ve caught her
eyes on me before to-day, as if she was
on the point of asking me, and couldn’t
quite bring herself to do it How she’d
gloat!”
He caught at the word.
“Gloat? What d’you mean by that? I
suppose she’d be pleased enough. That’s
only natural.”
Lena’s lip curled sardonically.
“Is it? Anyway I don’t intend to give
her the pleasure of looking at me. Haven’t
I seen that superior smile on women of her
age more times than enough. 'l’ve got it
over and done with, but you’ve got to go
through with it.’ And when she knows I
didn’t want it”
To Lew every word was like a blow
between the eyes. Though Lena’s tone
was light and mocking, there was an inten-
sity of rancor in it. Lately he had been
aware of a'new tenderness in his feeling for
her, an impulse to protect her from any-
thing harsh or bleak, but whenever he had
revealed it she had met it with something
stony that turned its edge. Then there
was this strain of morbidity in her he
couldn’t understand. Why should it be
humiliating for her to admit she was going
to have a child? Other women weren’t
like that. It was unnatural.
“All right,” he said, picking up his towel.
“You know' best what you feel about it.
We’ll be making a move for home soon.”
But on an impulse she sprang up and
stretched herself like a cat, a recklessness
in her eyes.
“I suppose I really ought to have a
swim. No use chewing over what can’t
be helped. I want the feel of the surf
over me.”
“You can’t go into the open water here,”
Lew warned her. “Too big a sea running and
the devil of an undertow. It’s dangerous.”
She gave a mocking laugh as she went
off to undress.
“Dangerous? Oh, rats! Don’t be an
old woman, Lew.”
“I mean it,” he persisted. “The beach
slopes right down there and you’ll be
carried off your feet in no time. Come
over into the lagoon.”
It. was the ring of authority in his voice,
the way he took for granted his bare word
was enough, that roused the devil in her.
She slipped into her bathing suit and
dropped over the cliff, making her way
across the stretch of sand and breaking
into a run where it hardened at the tide-
level. The heavy pounding of the big
combers excited her, carried her out of
herself; she laughed a little hysterically as
she felt, the cold foam around her knees.
A delicious thrill shot through her with the
suck of the water as it rushed back; there
was no sandbar further out to break the
force of the waves, and each breaker, as it
reared up, drew the remnants of the last
into it, leaving the beach in front of it as
bare as a swept floor. Lena was filled with
a mad desire to throw herself in front of
the largest and be shot on its crest far
up the beach.
But the tug of the backwash, as she went
out, was stronger than she had guessed.
Her knees gave way beneath her and she
w r as carried down in a swirl of foam, coming
up choking and half-dazed behind the line
of breakers. She struck out strongly for
the beach; it would be easy to catch a
breaker and shoot in like a swallow! But
would it? Only when she saw she was
making no progress and the undertow was
carrying her further out did a spasm of
fear paralyse her heart.
A dull roaring in her ears, a feeling of
leadenness in her limbs, an impulse to open
her mouth wide at every panting breath!
“Keep it shut, or you’ll drown,” she
seemed to hear a voice say. “You don’t
want to drown Or do you?”
Lew, with Hughie a few yards behind
him, was racing over the sand toward the
water. Anna and the two girls were watch-
ing from the top of the cliff, looking some-
how wild and dishevelled. A sudden storm
of energy swept through Lena, doubling her
strength. She didn’t need Lew or any-
one else to come and rescue her.
Suddenly, after a prodigious effort, she
felt herself being carried forward instead of
back. As Lew reached the edge of the
water a breaker lifted her and sent her
skimming in till she stranded, breathless,
in the foam at his feet.
e


r
Is your mirror
warning you?
>
6=*
Constipated ? No, you willsay indignantly.
But does your mirror say no, too ? Does it
show a muddy skin, eyes tinged with yellow,
a coated tongue ? If so, nature is warning you
that you are suffering from incomplete elim-
ination. Your system is not entirely ridding
itself of its daily waste. There is aresidue of de-
cay poisoning your bloodstream, sapping your
vitality,spoiling your enjoyment of life. Beware
of constipation —and particularly unsuspected
constipation. A glass of Eno’s "Fruit Salt 5 *
every morning gently dismisses the waste
toxins from your system before they have had
time to be absorbed into your blood. Eno is a
sparkling saline drink, pleasant to take, and
natural and complete in its action. It has been
prescribed by doctors for sixty years as the
one safe andsimple preventive of constipation
OS 'Run SAIT'
c&he words &no and ' f( t?ruit Salt” are registered trade marks.
Sales Mgents: THE BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE 6i CO., LTD., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
The Later Years of Thomas
Hardy, 1892-1928
By FLORENCE EMILY HARDY.
With portraits and other illustra-
tions. 18s. net.
Lord Melbourne
By BERTRAM NEWMAN. 12s.
6d. net.
The “Times'”: “After the brilliant appear-
ance which Lord Melbourne makes in Mr.
Lytton Strachey’s ‘Queen Victoria,’ there must
be many who would like to make a closer
acquaintance with him ; and in this volume
they will find that Mr. Newman meets their
wishes very happily.”
Heredity in Live Stock
By CHRISTIAN WRIEDT. With
a foreword by PROFESSOR
R. C. PUNNETT. Illustrated.
7s. 6d. net.
“Live Stock Journal”: “A valuable contri-
bution to the literature on this subject....
A vast number of practical experiments dealing
with the laws of heredity are in this work,
the findings being presented in such a way as
to carry significance to the lay reader.”
Rogue Herries
By HUGH WALPOLE. 736
pages.
[Dominions Edition.
The “Fortnightly Review”: “The stoiy of
‘Rogue Herries’ is probably the richest (as
well as the longest) of Mr. Walpole’s novels.
It has movement, color, humor and drama; it
is robust and full-blooded; and it has the
true flavor of its period, which ■is the
eighteenth-century.”
Turn Back the Leaves
By E. M. DELAFIELD.
[Empire Library.
The “Tatler”: “Undoubtedly the best novel
she has so far given us.”
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON. W.C.2.
15he
NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
HEAD OFFICE, MELBOURNE.
■; m
« ms
Iff
m
Capital Paid up
£5,000,000
Reserve Fund
(used in the business)
£3,200,000
Total Assets
March 31, 1930
£45,652,207
503 Offices and Branches.
LONDON OFFICES:
7 Lothbury and
Australia House, Strand.
Principal Office in New South Wales:
342 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Bank provides a complete service covering the financial
side of Australian Industry—including farming, grazing,
manufacturing, transport, wholesale and retail trade, as well
as import and export transactions. It makes loans against
approved securities and allows interest on money lodged on
deposit for terms ranging up to two years. Full provision
is made to meet the banking needs of tourists and settlers.
Agents throughout the World .
Missing Friends.
\Y/OULD any person knowing of the ' vll '- r
W abouts of LOUIS BELL, ex-PoKee Con-
stable, who lived in Sydney, New Sout
Wales, up to 1900, and thereafter m Liis
bane, Queensland, until early m 1917, wnex
lie returned to New South W ales, and
last heard of in Sydney early in that ‘ r p’
kindly communicate with S. jmjijl- »
Solicitor, Manchester Unity Chambers, Joe
Castlereagli Street, Sydney.
GEORGE EDWARD NELSON
GEORGE EDWARD NELSON
GEORGE EDWARD NELSON
GEORGE EDWARD NELSON
nrUE Executors of the Will of the late
1 HELEN NELSON wish to communi-
cate with her brother, GEORGE EIW ARI
NELSON, at one time of Colo Vale ana
later of West Wyalong, New South Males.
Address information to Messrs. ALLt-,.N,
ALLEN & HEMSLEY, Box 50, G.P.0.,
Sydney. •
For
American
Cars
LODGE
PLUGS
are unrivalled.
They are invariably chosen by
the keen motorist who wishes
to get the very best out of his
car.
Stocked by all
garages through-
out the Common-
wealth.
LODGE CT fin.
Regular.
Price 6/-
Suitable for
AUBURN
JEWETT
NASH
(light 6)
QLDSMOBILE
PLYMOUTH
STUDEBAKER
(Commander')
WHIPPET
(Four)
WILLYS-
KNIUHT. etc.
LODGE PLUGS,
LIMITED,
Rugby, England.
IMHMUpJU
fttC t
We suggest that
you ask your nearest
distributor to show you
the complete line of RAY-
O-VAC Electric Torches
and RAY-O-VAC Bat
teries. There are no
better made.
■^sss!?'
Manufacturer*s Representative
W. C. SCHWAB
Box 1821, G.P.0.,
Melbourne, Viet.
FRENCH BATTERY CO.
CHICAGO U.S.A. ..
If any illustration in “The Bulletin"
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.


w
Leipzig Trade Fair
GERMANY
e
THE GREATEST OF ALL TRADE FAIRS
(TWICE YEARLY.)
Autumn Fair, Incorporating Engineering and
Building Fairs, starts AUGUST 31, 1930
INQUIRIES INVITED, INFORMATION GLADLY GIVEN BY:—
LARS G. BRUNDAHL,
121 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
0. N. KEPPEL,
C/o Marcard Lund & Co., Ltd.,
Post Office Place,
Melbourne, Vic.
-
“Germany invites the display of Australian Primary Products
for presentation to the World’s Buyers.”
Royal Alexandra Hospital for Children
Golden Jubilee No. 1 Art Union.
DRAWN June 28 in Sydney Town Hall at 3 p.m. Closing June 14.
Tickets: 1/1£
post free.
Books of 12 and
25 tickets can be
had on applica-
tion. Send now.
vm
Spend 1/- and
help .to maintain
the little kiddies
who are depend-
ent upon your
sympathy.
By permission of the Honorable the Attorney-General.
FIRST PRIZE De Soto Sedan De Luxe, Value ... . £471
SECOND PRIZE. . Chevrolet Six De Luxe Sedan, Value 010
THIRD PRIZE . Glory Box and Trousseau, Value .... 100
total prizes value OVER £lOOO.
Apply to HON. SEC., BOX 4200 XX, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
THIS WEEK’S "AS WE SAID BEFORE" PAGE IS DEVOTED TO REPRODUCTIONS OF DRAWINGS MADE FOR “THE BULLETIN” BY GEORGE LAMBERT,
A.R.A., WHOSE SUDDEN DEATH OCCURRED AT COBBITTY (N.S.W.) LAST THURSDAY.
A WOMAN’S USES.
HE (teased about sweethearts) : “I’m never going to get married. What’s
the good of a wife?”
HIS Thoughtful Sister: “But, then, if a burglar comes, who’ll hold him
down while you beat him?”
POINTS OF VIEW.
THE MAN: “I say, hasn’t the new model a jolly fine figure?”
THE WOMAN: “I don’t know; I have not seen her with her clothes on!”
SWELLED HEAD.
“What have you done with that tutor you got for the kids?"
“Oh, I had to sack him; he got too blessed flash to feed
the pigs.”
Extract from diary of Rev. Goliath Smooge, 1860:
“Have adopted the native costume to ingratiate
myself with the people. The savage maidens,
I find, are of a friendly disposition and not
uncomely.”
THE ONLY ONE.
Stranger (to old hand on the river—at pub ) : "Did you
know one Ryan on the Darling?”
O.H.: “Scores on ’em.”
STRANGER: “Paddy Ryan?”
O.H.: “Dozens on ’em.”
STRANGER: “Quiet chap — didn't drink?"
O.H. (long think): “He must have died before my time!”
WHAT THEY WERE DOING.
“We are playing at getting married. Willie’s the
bridegroom, and Elsie’s the bride, and I’m
the parson.”
THEIR AUNT: “But what is poor baby doing over
there?”
“Oh! she’s waiting to be born!”
LITTLE NORAH (whose father has just beaten her, to
Ethel, whose pa is “doing time”) : “Your father
is in gaol.”—(Ethel weeps) — “Oh, I didn’t
mean to hurt your feelings. I only wish my
father was there, too!”
CONCLUSIVE EVIDENCE.
THE BIRDEGREROOM (who notices a nasty taste about the
celery): “Are you sure it has been properly
washed, my dear?”
THE BRIDE: “Of course it has, Charley I washed it
myself, darling—and with soap, too!"
A PAGE OF GEORGE LAMBERT'S DRAWINGS.


L
MOTORS PRODUCT
CHRYSLER
WITH THESE FEATURES:
Down-draft Carburetion.
Impulse Neutraliser.
Full-pressure Feed Lubrication,
Mechanical Fuel Pump—Fuel
Filter —Air Cleaner.
Thermostatic Heat Control.
Hydraulic Brakes.
Hydraulic Shock Absorbers.
Rubber-cushioned Spring
Shackles.
Non-glare Windshield.
Cowl Ventilators.
Rust-proof Parts.
I OWE ST-PRICED
EIGHT
1\ THE WORLD
PjtT'HE new Chrysler-built De
Soto Straight Eight is proving
the dominant value in the field of
low-priced cars. Neither America
nor Europe ever before produced
so fine an eight at so low a price.
In performance that results from
serene, smooth power delivered
by a superbly-designed engine—
in distinction of design, beauty of
appointments and riding comfort
—the De Soto Straight Eight
possesses an even greater margin
of superiority than that which
made its triumphant companion
car, the De Soto Six, the largest-
selling first-year car in the history
of the industry.
n
E
OTO
STRAIGHT
*»«*>> EIGHT
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales Grenville Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Automobiles Proprietary, Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Stradbroke Motors, Ltd., Brisbane
South Australia ....... Dominion Wtotors, Ltd., Adelaide
Western Australia W eniWorth Motois, Ltd., Perth
NeW Zealand .... New Zealand Motors, Ltd., Wellington
. Metro Motors Ply., Ltd., Hobart.
T asmania


ou on time
morning ?
Westclox’
Big Ben’s loyalty has won and kept legions of friends in every
land. Preaching punctuality ... urging and enabling millions to be
on time ... his cheery good morning call is heard around the world.
Big Ben Base Model I9fc
I
I
10
o
0
8
7
u
baby ben Base Model 19[q
w
e
w
Other Specialities—Post Free.
PLUM Strops, each, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6
Strop Dressing, per* tube 1/3
Shaving Cream, Giant Size, tube, 2/-
Shaving Tablet, Round, each .. . 6d.
Witch Hazel, After-shave Liquid
Cream, bottle 2/-
Oil of Roses Hairdressing, bottle . 1/3
Crystallised Brilliantine, jar .... 1/3
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney
POPULAR COWBOY SADDLERY
m\\
m 3
m
m I
i#i * -
i ■
*
The
Texas Ranger
Cowboy Saddle
In nut-brown hide, double-
rigged, as illustrated,
£l3/18/6
Freight paid for cash with
order to any N.S.W. Rail-
way station.
Fancy Studded Cowboy Bridles, with
gold-color bit, with nickel horse-
head on cheeks. Two patterns,
72/6 and 76/- each.
Breastplates to Match . . 65/-, 75/-
Cowboy Spurs . . 7/6 to 35/- pair
Cowboy Chaps—
With fringe, 87/6; with conchas, 95/-
Cartridge Belts. Single row, 10/6; double, 20/-
Write for Catalogue of Texas and Australian
Saddlery, Whips, Harness, etc.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
SADDLERS, 395 George Street, Sydney. Box 785 G.
e
Twelve-Inch Bill.
J.H.M. ABBOTT
TELLS HOW THE MAN FROM SHAE’S CREEK CAME
TO JOIN THE NAVY.
EVERYBODY who was anybody in the
ship seemed to be on \he bridge of
' 11.M.A.5. Centralia as she steamed
down Hervey Bay. The Admiral sat on
a sort of office stool in the port corner —the
upper bridge is simply a projecting square
above and behind “B” turret, and does not
extend the whole width of the ship—and
the captain stood beside him. Near the
voice-tubes that lead down to the wheel-
house on the lower bridge, where a quarter-
master steers the ship under directions, and
into the engine-room, was the commander
(N) —“the pilot.” The officer-of-the-watch,
the midshipman-of-the watch and petty-officers
of assorted sorts busied themselves in vari-
ous occupations, and near the starboard
torpedo-controls was the lieutenant-com-
mander (T). At either side, perched high
above the bulwarks of the bridge, two blue-
jackets sat behind a couple of big range-
tinders. In the conti’ol-positiou, behind and
above us, the gunnery officer scanned the
horizon with his glasses, his staff about him,
and above them was the director-station,
whence the all-important “spotting” is done.
1 knew —though it was a holy of holies
to which I had not been admitted —that far
down in the bowels of the ship was the trans-
mission station, through which range, direc-
tion and elevation went to the turrets, whose
crews cannot, even see the surrounding waters
let alone their target.
“There she is!” someone said.
Far away on the horizon ahead a grey
pucker, looking less than half the size of
a threepenny-bit, represented H.M.A.S.
Molonglo, at whom we were going to shoot.
She was fourteen miles away, and presently
we increased speed to 25 knots, and before
very long opened fire from the fo’c’sle tur-
rets at 25,000 yards. The sights were on
the target, but the muzzles of the guns were
deflected six degrees to starboard, so that
the projectile should fall astern of the target
ship. That is what they call “throw-off”
firing.
At each discharge the bridge gave a kick
and a shiver, and a fraction of a second
later a great sheet of vivid orange flame
leapt out in front of the turret. The crash
seemed to rend heart and lungs and bowels,
and the projectile howled into the heights
of its trajectory w T ith a whooshing rush.
Sixty-five seconds it took to reach the vicinity
of the target, and then a huge splash as
high as the Molonglo’s masts marked the
spot where the great missile struck the sea.
A .succession of splashes beyond traced the
line of richochet.
Again and again that stunning crash
seemed to rend the sunny morning, and the
distant white splashes leapt out of the dark
blue of the far-off levels of ocean near the
line of the horizon. At first they jumped up
beyond the tiny grey silhouette of the Mol-
onglo, growing larger as we raced towards
her at thirty miles an hour. Then one
appeared a bit this side of her, and after
that the shots seemed to drop directly astern.
But for the deflection of the gun-muzzles
we were hitting her. The ship swung round,
heeling over like a speedboat, and the after-
turrets “X” and “Y” took up the infernal
chorus —and so it went on to the end of
the .shoot. Observers on the target ship
were estimating hits and misses, and a week
afterwards when the results had been worked
out and tabulated by his staff Guns confided
that it had been a very good shoot, and he
was satisfied.
It was nearly half-way through the strepi-
tous performance when I became aware of
something phenomenal about the big young
man in dungaree who attended to the star-
board rangefinder. He was a> broad-shouldered,
athletic youngster with a pleasant, sunburnt
face that was strangely familiar to me. But
what was most remarkable about him was
the size of his feet; I had never seen any
human being with such prodigious mud-
hooks. And, somehow, either end of him
kept stirring up memories of a vague and
aebulous sort which, for the life of me, I
•ould not focus and co-ordinate. For the
rest of the shoot I found, myself taking more
interest in that youth’s head and feet than
in the gunnery that should have been absorb-
ing every bit of attention I had to give. It
was absurd, but that boy’s long, broad, bare
feet fascinated me.
When the business was over and we were
heading back to Platypus Bay, with our late
target keeping station in “line ahead” behind
us, the Admiral invited me down to his cabin
to drink a cocktail, so that I had no oppor-
tunity of making inquiries about the lad
whom I seemed to recollect having seen some-
where before. But at luncheon in the ward-
room I happened to sit next to the com-
mander, and, knowing that he is supposed
to be acquainted with everybody and every-
thing and every circumstance in the ship,
I asked a question.
“You mean the fellow at the port range-
finder?” he asked.
Hastily going over the formula, “Port —
left, starboard-right,” a thing I generally
have to do when I seek to translate the
language of lubberdom into that of the sea-
man, I corrected myself.
“No; I mean the chap who was at the
starboard one this morning. Good-looking
big young fellow with a nice face and an
outsize in feet.”
Commander Levick grinned. “Oh,” he
said, “that’s Twelve-inch Bill.”
“Twelve-inch Bill!”
“Yes —that’s the name the troops have
given him.” (To the Ward Room the shin’s
company generally is “the troops.”) “His
bare feet measure exactly twelve inches from
the tip of the big toe to the back of the
heel, and each foot is six inches across in
its widest part. I believe the measurements
were taken and the name bestowed at F.N.D.
—Flinders Naval Depot, you know —when
he was a new entry. A bright lad. a very
good lad. Finished? Well, come into the
smoking-room and I’ll tell you about him.
He’s got his peculiarities—like most of you
Australians, if you’ll forgive my saying so.
Peculiarities to an Englishman, I mean.
Very entertaining, some of them, to a
‘pommy’ like myself. Very !”
Wo pushed our chairs, and the commander
led the way to the curtained-off ante-room
at the after-end of the mess, where uphol-
stered leather seats run round the bulk-
heads and big armchairs face the electric
fireplace across a couple of squares of grey-
blue carpet. We seated ourselves in two
of these, and lit our pipes.
“Twelve-inch Bill!” he laughed. “Quite
a character, that young man. But a sound
lad —a very sound lad, indeed, who’ll do well
in the service—if his enormous feet don’t
get him into trouble.”
“What’s his name?” I asked. “Somehow
I can’t get over an impression that I know
him—that I’ve seen him somewhere when
he was a good deal younger. Do you remem-
ber his name?”
“He’s a leading-seaman, and his name’s
William John Denmark.”
At once, a flood of recollection poured in.
Young Willie? I remembered him perfectly
—perfectly! The youngest of five strapping
brothers who were the offspring of old Tom
Denmark, of Sliae’s Creek, which is a tribu-
tary of the Page, which latter helps to fill
the Upper Hunter River in New South
Wales. Tom Denmark, who had 3000 acres
of mountain and gully, with a few imper-
fect and infrequent flats, under the shadow
of the Quartpot Mountain, out from Mur-
rurundi. A prosperous “boss cocky,” of the
type that would be described in Britain as
“sturdy yeomanry.” A good man, old Tom —
straight and reliable in every way. And his
wife, Aunt Sarah, as she used to be known
locally—she was a woman to be remembered
with affection and esteem. The very best
sort of Australians, the Denmarks of Sliae’s
Creek. Best and most typical.
I recalled the pretty old shingled home-
stead at the foot of the mountain, nestling in
its green orchard, with two tall poplar-*
trees on either side of the gate in the white
picket-fence surrounding Aunt Sarah’s
garden, and the musical rivulet babbling over
its stony bed through an arcade of she-oaks
below the bluff on which the house was
placed, and the milking-yards at the edge
of the timber. The giant, tumbled ranges all
about, and the shady road under the “apple
trees” leading down along Shae’s Creek to
the wider valley of the Page. And two pretty
little girls, who must be married now, play-
ing about the flat. And Aunt Sarah hold-
ing a toddler by the hand (this must have
been leading-seaman William John), and
expi'essing her wonder, in her soft drawling
fashion, at the largeness of the child’s feet.
“Well, I reckon my Willie ought to make
bis mark wherever he goes,” she had laughed.
“A blind man wouldn’t be able to miss his
tracks!”
I woke up, with a start, to the blue uni-
forms with the gold sleeve-rings, the open
scuttle with the sun shining through it,
the fog of tobacco smoke, and the fact that
Commander Levick was talking about Twelve-
inch Bill, and that I had missed something
of what he had been saying.
“I beg your pardon,” I said. “I didn’t
quite catch that last bit. I think I must have
known Denmark’s people.”
“I was telling ypu how they made him some-
thing of a butt down at F.N.D.—about his
feet, you know. Well, he’s a pretty self-con-
tained beggar, our Twelve-inch Bill is, and
he didn’t take much notice, but seemed
to think a lot, and go about grinning at noth-
ing in particular. And he took to putting in
for week-end leave—it’s pretty good at the
depot, you know; Friday to Monday. I
say, have you ever heard of that French
style of boxing with the feet — La Savatc,
they call it? Useful against apaches, I
believe, and very deadly when you knoAv how
to do it.”
“Yes, I’ve read something about it.”
“Young Denmark must have read some-
thing about it, too. And it seems he also
read an advertisement, in one of the Mel-
bourne papers, of some French teacher of
physical jerks and swordsmanship and so on.
So, one Saturday morning, he went antj
interviewed the chap, and inquired whether
he could teach him all about La Savate.
Splendid, the professor said—it was just
the business he’d been an expert in, years
ago, in Paris. Did M’sieu wish to learn?
M’sieu did, and the professor w’as so de-
lighted with the potentialities of Twelve-inch
Bill’s feet that he offered to instruct him for
nothing. Most enthusiastic! Couldn’t have
been better pleased about anything than to
come across a man with such hooves as Bill’s.
I had the whole story from Mr. Nimrod, the
master-at-arms, not long ago.”
“And did he find Bill an apt pupil?”
“The very aptest he’d ever had, so Mr
Nimrod says. He turned Bill out a past
master in La Savate, and I suppose, to-day
if it came to a row ashore anywhere, yor
might reckon Twelve-inch Bill the most
dangerous man in the whole of the flag
ship’s company—and we’ve got one or two
pretty bruisers, too. He’s something deadly.
Imagine a clout on the side of the head from
one of those great lumps of bone and gristl
he’s been issued with as feet! And with his
boots on—Heavens!”
“And did he show them anything at the
depot?”
“He did. One day, in the drill hall, when
Mr. Snodgrass, the P.T. (Physical Train-
ing, you know) warrant-instructor, was hold
ing forth to a class on the value of a know
ledge of boxing as a means of self-defence
Denmark made a modest offer to let Mr
Snodgrass—and Snodgrass is some pug, too-
use his bare fists, and he’d undertake to keep
him off. Snodgrass thought it was just a
bit of youthful skite, and said Bill couldn’l
last two seconds with him. So he comes
shaping up to Twelve-inch Bill—and before
he knew where he was Bill had tapped him
on the jaw with the sole of one foot, and
immediately afterwards given him a push in
the binjy with the other—very gently, and
with only sufficient force to make the P.T.I.
take the count. But he did, take it; and
( Continued on next page.)


V
helpless + + \
CAR stranded deep in mud—no
traction, hence no power—there
you sit almost as helpless as a man
handcuffed —wishing you had Weed
Tyre Chains to keep you going.
Weed Chains grip and hold on any
road —mud, sand, or clay. Every cross
chain bites deep into the soil, provides
safe, sure traction so that every turn
of your motor is transmitted into
actual mileage.
Get Weed Tyre Chains today. They
insure your reaching your destination
without costly delays; they guard
against dangerous skidding accidents
and so protect you, your passengers
and your car. Look for the name
“Weed” stamped on every hook.
AMERICAN CHAIN CO.
Now York, N. Y., U.S.A.
*
Ml
TYRE CHAINS*
The Ideal Way
Is by far the Best Way
r
7 4
WQ
S 3
I
Hot Water Always
Throughout the Home
and All Rooms Warmed
From One Fire
at Small Cost.
The Ideal Way
is by far the Best Way.
Ideal Boilers and Classic Radiators
Are now extensively used in all Countries for Warming Dwellings and
supplying Hot Water for the various Household Needs—Classic Radiators
are neat in appearance and occupy but little space, and having small
Waterways, are kept heated with much less outlay for fuel. An Ideal
Installation in the Home gives you—FROM ONE FlRE—Warm Rooms,
abundance of Hot Water for a Bath at any hour without waiting,
and an all-day Hot-water Service on Tap wherever connected up. You
get all these benefits at very little cost—a Hot Bath costs about one
penny. Ideal Installations can be had for Heating; Heating and Hot-
water Supply, or for Hot-water Supply only.
You are invited to call at either our Sydney or Melbourne Showrooms
and have our “Ideal” Systems fully explained and get Expert Advice
Free.
a* l
iiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiits
INOS'ff
NHOr I
’diiiuimmiimuif
■xzny?
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
there wasn’t a more astonished man in the
whole of Victoria, when he woke up, than
Mr. Snodgrass. And the other men—they
became very careful in their allusions to Bill's
“hams.” But lie’s a good-natured chap, and
all he ever did with his dangerous acquire-
ment was to give demonstrations of it at
concerts, and try to teach the other fellows.
Some of them picked it up fairly well —but,
of course, none of them had such battering-
rams of feet as Bill’s got. And lie’s quick,
too, for all liis size, and the weight each leg
has to lift when he’s in action. I’ll see if
I can’t get him to do a turn some evening,
before the cruise is over—when we have a
concert —just to show you. It’s astonishing!”
“And has he ever had to use his gift
seriously?” I asked. “I mean has he ever
had to lift his foot up in earnest, so to
speak?”
“Only once, so I’m told. The master-at-
arms saw it happen, and he described it as
‘‘a sight for sore eyes.’ One night Mr. Nim-
rod was crossing Little Bourke-strect, in
Melbourne, when he saw half a dozen or so
of our chaps involved in a row with some
hooligans—larrikins, you call ’em, don’t
you?—who were a bit too many for them.
Beer-bottles and all that, you know. So he
ran along to give ’em a hand, or order ’em
off, or do whatever might be necessary. And
just as he got up to the shindy, Twelve-inch
Bill went into action. He, says it was simply
amazing to see what Bill did. Utterly aston-
ishing ! He seemed to break one fellow’s
jaw with his right foot, whilst he cra'cked
another’s ribs with his left. A fellow tried
to hit him over the head with a bottle, and
Denmark simply pushed his face in with a
kick that sent him right across the street. They
got through the crowd in no time, and by the
end of five minutes the part of Little Bourke-
street where they’d been held up resembled
a bally battlefield. Mr. Nimrod hurried our
chaps away, just as the civil police began
to come along, in case any of those whom
Bill had dealt with should happen to be dead.
Hullo—1.15! I must away. You’d better
look Bill up. Go along the mess-decks after
four o’clock, , and ask for him. Anyone will
point him out to you. Oh, I tell you we’re
proud of our Bill'! He’s one of Centralia’s
institutions. Nearly as important as ‘the
Bloke.’ That’s me, you know.”
After the first lieutenant had gone round
the ship for evening quarters at four o’clock,
I went for’ard through the mess-decks to
the canteen to buy some shaving soap and.
incidentally, to see whether I could find
leading-seaman Denmark. Tea was over,
and the troops were scattered about their
fhesses in the ’tween-decks engaged in various
relaxations. On the starboard side,-as I came"
back from the ship’s general-store, I saw
a pair of feet that, resting on top of a table,
completely hid their owher’s' r face. I knew 1
I had found my man. I [halted in front 'of'
them. There was no doubt about their dimen-
sions.
“And how’s Shao Creek?” I murmured.
“And the Quartpot Mountain?”
Instantly the barrier came down, and the
most welcoming grin I’ve ever seen —it was
his mother’s smile all over —seemed to fill
the flat.
“Put it there, mister,” he said, rising—
and I realised what a tall fellow he was, and
how broad and muscular. “I’ve known your
face ever since you came aboard in Sydney
Harbor —and then, of course, I heard your
name, and guessed you came from round
our way. The old Quartpot’s all right, thank
you, and I’d like to be at Shae’s Creek now.
I’ve seen you round those parts—a good bit
ago, eli? Sit down, won’t you—or, I say,”
he added as an afterthought, “let’s go up
on the fo’c’sle, it’s quieter up there. We
might 'have a bit of a yarn—if you have
nothing better to do.”
I made it plain to Twelve-inch Bill that
the chances of having a yarn with’ anyone
from the Liverpool Ranges took precedence
over anything else that it-might be possible
to do. So he led the way up a steep steel
ladder that was banistered by a chain,. and
we ca*mc out on the long, white, .pointed
fo’c’sle through a narrow hatch whose
armored lid was raised, back. . Behind us
loomed the two big turrets, one above the
other, the bridge, and the tall grey castle
whose topmost battlements enclose' the
director-station. * A couple of dozen ~ or so
of ratings sat about tlie deck," smoking- sold
yarning—the day’s work being over - and the
remainder of the evening their own. Over in
the west the sun was nearly dowp to • the
horizon, and a track of gold lay across the
wide, grey-green waters between the edge of
the world and the ship’s bows. ,
We sa*t down on the planking with our
backs against the breakwater, not far from
where the mighty cables, coming from tlie
hawse-holes, disappear down the two great
orifices in the deck that let them into the
chain-lockers. For a little while .we talked
about Murrurundi, a*nd Shae’s Creek, and
people who used to live round * those rugged
parts, and, after a.while, I put,the question
to Twelye-inch Bill tha*t had been worrying
me ever since the commander’’told, me, of
liim at lunch-time. •
“Look, Bill Denmark,” I .said to -him,
“I’ve heard how'handy. ,yo.u are 7 with . your
feet, and all that.’ Commander Levick told
me all about it. . But there’sone r thing~ I
want to know —if you don’t* mind Any asking,
it?” . ..
“Go ahead,” lie grinned,at my allusion to
his great bare feet, and seemed to" regard
them with approval r as 'th'ey-'Stuck yip above
the deck at the eiuLof his long legs. “What
is it?” ' f • .
“Well,” I replied,-“what made you join tlie
navy? Somehow a-fellow-doesn’t .connect
Shae’s Creek with' a life on the pcea*n:' wave,
and all that. I don’t think I’ve ever heard
of anyone else in the district who went to
sea —though there’ve been lots of soldiers
out of the Upper Hunter, both in South
Africa and the Big War. How did you get
the idea of it? What put it into your head?”
Bill stared for a little while into the
crimson glow a*bove the indigo line of the
hard horizon, behind which the sun had just
disappeared, before he answered my question.-
From the quarterdeck far behind, \thfe bugles
saluted the hauling down of the white ensign
at the stern. We stood up, and faced aft,
and sat down when the wailing bugles had
finished. I thought for a moment he was
going to tell me. to mind my own business.
But he turned his head, and grinned at me
in his friendly fashion.
“,Well, you see, it was like this. You
remember my dad. don’t you—what a name
he had for leg-pulling? He was known all
over the Upper Hunter for the trouble he’d
go to take rises out of clia*ps. You remember? - ’
“Oh, yes,” I laughed. “I’ve heard some
stories of old Tom Denmark’s exploits in
that line. Funny—some of them !”
“Yes,” said Twelve-inch Bill slowly, shak-
ing his head. ’“Some of ’em were funny
enough—if you didn’t happen to be the
victim. I was—for, years. When I was
a little chap. About my feet, of course.
Dad always said there were two things he
wanted badly. One was a new wool-press,
and the other was that I’d grow up quickly.
He reckoned he could make’ the old press do
if I’d hurry up and come to my full growth’.
If I grew up to equal my feet, he said. I’d
be the finest wool-press was ever seen ! I
was a simple sort of kid, a*nd I believed
him. I was only good to be a wool-press—
nothing else ! That worried me. So much it
worried me that, when I was sixteen, I ran
away—down to Victoria. I always got work,
and did fair. And then I thought I’d join
the navy, a<nd go back to Shae’s Creek one
day and show the old man I was good for
something else besides being used as a wool-
press. And when I did get back the old man
was dead. But it was him and his wool-
press joke that was the cause of my going
to sea. But, still,” Bill laughed, “I dunno that
I’ve done much good by changing. Do you
know what they- say here’s my principal
use in the navy?”
“No—what?”
“They tell mo that if ever the ship gets
torpedoed-—well, they just carry me so’s
they can use my feet to plug the hole with !”
The Lament of Jephthah’s Daughter.
Jeplitliali, my lord and father, mighty son
Of Gilead’s great loins, who, harlot-born
(By stern law banned ere life had well
begun),
Fled fugitive before thy brethren’s scorn,
Yet now the leader of thy race dotli stand ;
T o honor thee that stiff-necked tribe
delight,
Since that the Lord hath chosen by thy hand
To waste and spoil the godless Ammonite!
No child save me hast thou to laud thy
name,
And I had thought that from my fruitful
womb
Strong ' sons ' should spring to hymn their
gran dsi re’s fame,
When - thy, hoar head ‘lay low within the
tomb.
O maidens, mourn .with me, and sore bewail
. My.chil] virginity—that when I tread
The lonej dark j ways beyond earth’s pleasant
- - • v vale : v - - X
No son shall weep nor daughter bow the
head.
Yet am I formed for love, my warm, white
breast
For gracious motherhood! Methinks
they’ll say
When I pass .through the waiting people—•
dressed
With garlands white and robed in proud
array—
By pallid priests unto the altar led:
“A fairer bride shall Israel never see!”
But the cold grave must be my marriage-
bed,
And Death the lover who shall--lie with
me!
N.S.W.
CLARE THOMPSON.
The Lost Galleon.
Slie lay by lazy Lima • , . .
When southern seas were wide,
Equipped for lone adventure
•And waiting wind and tide.
Their trumpets called departure,-
These mariners of Spain,
An old sea chorus singing,, .
Their anchors heaved amain.
. , .Then, with a fair wind blowing
She .slowly crossed the rim
Of. blue Pacific waters
Arid faded in the dim
Swift-falling dusk of Silence,
And with the day* was gone,
While shoreward lamps were lighted
And shoreward life went on.
A hundred men she carried,
Full armed for conquests new,
On seas as yet uncharted,
To ports that haply knew,
Save bold Saavedra’s mission
Or brave Mandana’s quest,
And Torres and Le Quiros, '
No long ships sailing west.
Strange tales had brought those heroes
Of isles that gemmed the seas,
* Whose scented winds invited
Their drooping souls to ease.
And where, long tresses braided
With careless wealth of pearls,
Danced" in the tropic starlight
i The comely pagan girls.
And; some when were loosened
By wine would whisp’ring tell
A land ;as rich in booty
As to Pizarro fell; '■
A land beyond ; the'sunset
. That offered ■ wealth ' untold
In gums and" gems and spices
.And mines of virgin gold.
But what of gain or glory,
Or what of weal and woe
Befel them as they voyaged
No man shall ever know.
They carried none tell whither
The spirit of New Spain,
And to the quays of Lima
Came never home again.
Long mute are woman voices
That pyayed their, safe return ;
Long since the votive candles
On altars ceased-to burn;
And hearts that nightly listened
For love’s returning .feet,, „ ,
Adown the streets of Lima
Long, long have ceased" to beat.
VICTORIA.
E.J. BRADY.


V,
m
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and h i g h es t
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH. Brisbane.
JN Z. Office—93-107 Featlierston Street. Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House/’ 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
south Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
“ Uje Brisbane Courier ’
is now directly represented in
MELBOURNE.
MR. LOU S. MARKS
has been appointed Victorian Representative of Queensland’s
Supreme Newspaper—“ The Brisbane Courier,” also “The
Queenslander” and the “Sports Referee,” which are published by
THE BRISBANE NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.
Victorian Representative’s Address:
“THE ARGUS” BUILDING,
CORNER ELIZABETH AND LATROBE STREETS, MELBOURNE.
“THE AGE”
Established 185 If.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
“THE AGE” publishes over one million adver-
tisements annually. A newspaper, advertising
record for the British Empire.
This achievement is definite proof that “The
Age” has moved forward with irresistible
power to its objective—-public confidence.
When formulating your advertising pro-
gramme, link up with “The Age.”
Your confidence will not be misplaced.
AUDITED NET DAILY SALES,
123,533.
Advertising rates on application to the
principal Service Agencies in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO„
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
47 Fleet Street, London.
tbe Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
‘of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
c °ples of “THE ADVERTISER” may he
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price ljd.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
_ „ Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL. “The Herald” Buildings,
r J Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Condon Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life,
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
3fis Ehzabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
THE
Illustrated Tasmanian
Mail
Published Wednesday. Price 6d.
A Bright. Interesting Weekly, con-
ducted on the most up-to-date lines,
and illustrated throughout.
It is an established favorite with
townsfolk and country folk also in
an parts of Tasmania, and its
effectiveness as an advertising
medium is receiving ever-increasing
recognition.
It is undoubtedly
TASMANIA’S LEADING
WEEKLY
j;, Jf ate , P°°k’ giving full particulars
of the Advertising Rates charged , will
be forwarded on application .
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
„,, . H°bart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart
„ T Sydney Office:
r. la. Wilson, Representative. Liso-ir
3U Carrington Street
-oVV 0179.
Melbourne Office:
_ Ar^us Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER
who will quote you price for the original!
WtmaOH id not
wellwith diyedtim
take *
W k J&Sk®AA
»“* -<)
r = <» tT -**»>>
‘-T)
« i C r. la o
« • " **—•’V I_t W %
Worth a
Guinea
a Box.
w
Full
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same day of publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner“ Weekly
Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from:
Courier”
and
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Patterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
426 National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
*v. JJougan,
720 Herald Building’,
00 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper.
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6,3, months- from
for which I enclose £
NAME ..
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/
6 months, 12/6; 3 months, If.
6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
SVj'Vf
(V
\\®
0
3
\V V
C°
6) . ,
S e f«v^'
A' 6
•••-■, ■••
fi-A ce o r>-


GREATER PROFITS
with These
Important Truck Features
'WJT ERE are a few of the features
that mean less wear, greater
economy and more profit for
the Willys Six Truck-owner.
Greater Power—6s-h.p. at 3,200
r.p.m. Power a-plenty for the long,
hard pull, extra speed and quick get-
away.
Heavy Counterbalanced Crankshaft,
weighing 591 b heavier than is
customary in low-priced trucks. Its
construction eliminates periodic
crankshaft vibratioh, and gives
rigidity, resulting in smoothness of
operation.
Full Forced Feed Lubrication, result-
ing in long service with an absolute
minimum of repair costs. The Willys
Six is unique in offering this feature
in the low-priced field.
Special Hot-climate Radiator, ensur-
ing efficient cooling.
Six-spoke Steel Artillery Wheels
and an Exceptionally Heavy Chassis,
weighing 150«3001b. heavier than any
competitor, afford ample strength in
all emergencies.
Examine the Willys Six for yourself.
Submit it to any test or any com-
parison—the more careful these are,
the greater will be your conviction
that the Willys Six is essential for
economical transport work.
Arrange for a complete demonstra-
tion at your nearest Whippet-Willys
Knight dealer to-day.
II
mm
mm
t
mm
>
S?;<sSl:aSi!s;wS
M,
i-XvXv'
» ' mmmm
- -*. t. $ i
:** _
:
ggii
V
*
1
■
:-Sxv: ; :
lilliliii*
M
g •■ .X
i f' / ■»:•:
ms
KMmRI I
SMI
*
I
x „,r?-
V:
tipitl®!
lig lililsilllli
W
:p»*
r
.
j
mm**#***"™-
s • ** *• ‘
< *|
>•
i&SS&SiS
%
fFAToax
30 CWT. TRUCK
\ E. G. EAGER & SON, LTD.,
Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, Brisbane, Q.
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
68-70 Franklin Street, Adelaide, S.A.
State Distributors:
OVERLAND VICTORIA PTY., LTD.,
117-121 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, Vic.
ADAMS MOTORS, LTD.,
442 Murray Street, Perth, W.A.
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LTD.,
148-150 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
53-63 Bathurst Street, Hobart, Tasmania
