

BLACK & WHITE
=1
- m
■
■
;
■
■
■
Blf:
WMmS:
■VP
:" IP'BB
■ llffiHiilil
■
pSSiSy
m
Is
m
lIP
.
■
■?5
4
liSti
a
H H
mmmm
*
■Si
, 3
u
mm?
. M
jg
S’:
SCOTCH WHISKY
BOTTLED UNDER SUPERVISION OF THE COMMONWEALTH CUSTOMS.
The Bulletin
cfy&nf HUM Tlurit y (fimabo d-d'&wt tbwh ttMi/.
VoL 51.—N0. 2632.
Wednesday, July 23, 1930.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W.. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


HTHE New Library Catalogue for 1080 is
1 now ready, and will be forwarded with
full terms and particulars, post free, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Culture in art and science all may find,
Keen study shall at last its harvest earn;
Culture comes surely to an earnest mind,
But oh, how hard our errors to unlearn!
Culture uplifts the soul to noble thought
And brings the thrall of ignorance to naught—
Culture and patience for our colds, he sure,
Brought mankind Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure
Learn
Story Writing
Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 315
HOLBROOKS
SAUCE
WORCESTERSHIRE
§r.: /.
THE YACHTING
PARTY
Host Holbrook Says :
“Yo ho and a bottle
of sauce! Aye, the sea
air makes the appetite
keen and my Wor-
cestershire Sauce adds
a zest to the snack
partaken on board.
Always keep a bottle
in the locker.”
w *
rnmm
m
m
IlHHPft&l
UFSK/S
as*
inf^
The
FIRST COST IS THE ONLY COST
with a
ROLLS
RAZOR
The only ONE BLADE Safety Razor
in the world.
Imperial No. 1 45/-
Imperial No. 2 35/-
Rolls Razor Co. of Australia.
MICK SIMMONS, LTD.,
Wholesale Distributors for New South Wales,
Haymarket, Sydney.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/-per day, or apartments
may be secur'ed separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE .. *. 3d.
Contains everything a teaman, needs ta know.
\
Hawaii
Where it is Always Fine
These Isles of perpetual Spring, in a beautiful mid-Pacific island
paradise are beckoning you. Spend a holiday such as you’ve
never before experienced. Stay at least a week. Surfing, surf-
board and outrigger canoe riding, native dancing' polo, golf,
inter-island cruises, scenic trips, active volcanoes, sun-baking on
Honolulu’s world-famous Waikiki Beach, and hosts of other
attractions.
y
It’s yours for the taking, and comparatively inexpensive, too!
Special return excursion fares now available. Modern American
Hotels from 15/- to £3 per day with meals.
Send us your address and we will forward to you descriptive
booklets of the Hawaiian Islands, attractively illustrated in
colour.
Hawaii Tourist Bureau
Dept. 1 1 Box 1627 8.8., G.P.O. SYDNEY
If any illustration in ‘The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
The Red Page
Reaction
Earth and air are shimmery
with floating threads of gossamer
Spun across the sungold
Like moon witches’ hair,
Silver-fine and fair—
Oyer grasses grey with dew,
Lightly wafted up and through
Velvet vaults of endless blue—
Riders of a morning moment,
Headed who-knows-where,
Little do they care!
Gossamer, oh gossamer,
A filmy song of gossamer
1 could wish to fashion
Where so many noises vex,
And Arts are wilful wrecks—
Music that both snarls and brays,
Freud who smirches maiden ways,
The snobbery of money-praise,
The fumes of false Bohemia,
Inhibish. and ’plcx
And saxophones and sex!
I'm sick of psycho-analysts
Greedy after sordidness—
Oh, 1 am sick and sorry of
The novel made of mud
.Where sniggering evils bud!
For tales of dirty dreariness,
Of puny woe and weariness,
Of lassitude and lecriness
Are neither new nor wonderful,
But ancient as the Flood,
And even then stale'cud.
Gossamer, bright gossamer—
Gome out and see the gossamer
In grassy morning places
Where the air is keen,
For early day’s a queen
Fresh of lips and virgin-eyed;
\\ i tii her kiss you’re deified ■
And walk restored in human pride.
A lyric's only gossamer,
But dew upon the green
Sets you thinking clean. ,
VICTORIA,
RIKKI T.
Poets, Yo-ho!
Are you a Principal Poet?
I thought that would stump you! You
are fumbling about in .your mind trying to
decide. A our verse, 3-op say proudly, has
adorned the Saturday pages of the “Sydney
Morning Herald.’’ Once you approached a
Groat Publisher, and he said that the work
was full of merit, but, unfortunately, there
was no market, for verse in Australia. You
have written about all the recognised topics
—nostalgia for the bush; Mother;
approaching death; the wind; Amy John-
son; and Spring. Obviously you are a
poet; but the question, of course, was
And really it was not a difficult question.
There is one infallible way of knowing.
Vou belong to that select band if you
received, round about the end of June, the
following document from the Mitre Press,
Mitre Chambers, Mitre-street, London,
E.C.3;
, ,A° . "* lO an approved poet for represen*
* at,ion in “Principal Poets of the World.’’
The Editor requests that you will kindle complete
(lie questionnaire on back hereof, and return same
to him with a biographical sketch (not exceeding
:iOd words) on a separate sheet, and a copy of that
one of your poems (not exceeding 25 lines) which
you consider to be your best and most characteristic
ot P° e try. If the poem has previously been
published, please state where, so that due acknow-
ledgment may be given.
The book is described on the accompanying list.
It is hoped that you will graciously co-operate in
this important work, and will give this request as
prompt attention as conveniently possible.
Ihere you are; if you have received that,
the seal Jias been set upon your name, and
Fame will keep it for ever. Even if that
should be a little too optimistic a view, it
is surely no light matter to' be recognised
in this wav by a thrice-mitred, incompar-
ably altruistic press' situate at the Mecca
of English Literature, and having for its
chairman a gentleman named W. K. Fudge.
J he _ questionnaire is not embarrassing!)- in-
quisitive; it doesn’t ask the poet what is
his favorite tipple or whose wife he prefers.;
but before turning to it there is another
small paragraph of the letter itself which
possibly should be given, though it seems
to be of secondary importance:—
We are asking each poet to subscribe for one
copy of tlie special first (limited) edition dr luxe
at VI Is. or $6.00 for America, which copv will
be posted to you post paid and free, oh the date
of publication, which will be in the autumn of io:jo.\
That seems only just. A Principal Poet
who is not prepared to pay for (he privilege
of being a Principal Poet simply doesn't
deserve to be a Principal Poet. There is
another method—a quite prosaic and pecu-
niar)- method—of gathering material for an
anthology. This is to offer the contri-
butors a share of the profits, but its prac-
tice seems to be very rare; indeed, it is
never practised at all unless those selected
for representation happen to include vul-
garians who insist upon getting a cut. Aus-
tralia, this great land of happy compromise,
gets cleverly in between these methods, by
neither paying the contributor nor per-
mitting him to pay.
As for the questionnaire, it merely asks
for name in full, address, country of birth,
nationality, names of any literary societies,
clubs or other such organisations of which
you are a member, titles of publications
(if any), rounding off with:—
I sanction the publication of this information
and of the information on the accompanying’ shoe;
or sheets in “Principal Poets of the World” to b
issued by the Mitre Press, London, England.
Please send me on publication.... c0p.... o
“Principal Poets of the World” at the post-frc
subscription price of £1 ls./$6.00, for which
enclose postal order/cash/cheque/money order/foreigi
money order/draft for £/$ being paymen:
therefor.
If you should happen to get the niggardh
idea into your head that you are being
bled more than a Principal Poet ought to
be, turn to the enclosed dodger headed “A
Special Selection of Mitre Books with
Strong Appeal to Book Lovers,” and i:
particular this paragraph:—
“Principal Poets of
the World.” £l/1/. net.
A compilation of the principal living poets, with
examples of the poetry of each, and a full bio-
graphical sketch.
That is the company you are going to
be ini And afterwards, when •‘Principal
Poets of the World” is published, you
may depend it will achieve the destiny
achieved by one of its great forerunners,
“The Mitre Anthology of Poetry, 1929,”
and be learnedlv commended by the
“Coventry Standard,” the “Kentish Ex-
press,’ the “Midland Daily Telegraph,” the
“Eastbourne Chronicle,” the “Kent Mes-
senger” and the “Wiltshire Gazette.”
Apropos of that anthology, it is significant
that the Mitre Press (chairman W. K.
Fudge) is able to state in an advertise-
ment, “Fifty per cent, of the poets are
Americans.” The list of contributors to
that anthology is not given, but there is a
list, for yet another of the industrious Mr.
Fudge’s collections, a spring anthology, and
here again the contributors are probably
50 per cent. Americans; at any rate, there
is only one name in a string of about 200
that I n sure of haying heard before. There j
are Mrs. H, M. Baggariy, Virginia Howells
Baitinger, Mary Barrow Baucom, T. Her-
bert Chesnut (I think I know him), Louis
M. Eilshemius, W. Iv. Fudge (himself),
Fris Goof. S. Val. Green, Adda May
Hamaker, Annie Belle Koogle, the Countess
of Mexborough, G. Pursglove, Innocent
Sousa (I’ve met him, too, 1 think)—and
then, in this list, actual, unadulterated, un-
alloyed... .G. K. Chesterton! Shaw—yes.
Iconic! have understood Shaw; but G.lv !
No: Q.K. as a Spring Poet is a bit beyond
me.
I must add that the friend of mine who
received this fine offer from Mr. Fudge un-
ac ountably turned it down and sent the
documents on to me. I, however, prefer
to wait until I hear from Sir. Fudge of
the Mitre Press personally, for though, of
course, I should very much like to be a
Principal Poet, one must preserve a little
dignity in these matters.
CECIL MANN
Sherlock Holmes’s Inventor
Ihe critic who remarked of Sherlock
Holmes, “He may not have been killed
when he fell over the el iff, but he was never
quite the same man afterwards,” really
blew a stronger breath of life into.the great,
mystery solver than Conan Doyle himself
managed. “Inventor” rather than “creator”
seems the correct designation for Doyle.
There cannot be much question about
Holmes’s reality. He is a reality even to
many who have not met him in the print.
But his mortality is a doubtful quantity,
and that applies‘ to most of Doyle’s figures
Even had Holmes been christened by the
considerably weaker, and therefore more
mortal, name of Sherrington Hope, which
nearly happened, he could scarcely have
lived ill fiction as a living man. His in-,
fallibility goes against him. Because of it
alone Doyle had a better excuse than the
manager who brings back any other grand-
opera star tor vet one more final farewell.
If Holmes had gone over that cliff and
stayed there he might have been a better
man. but. he would not have been Holmes
—a more insubstantial villain like Moriarty
could never have overcome that mechanical
perfection. It is not altogether derogatory
to Doyle; less than genius has peopled
print, with living humans, but Holmes, for
all his being an invention, still stands in-
comparable and at the head of his pro-
fession.
The general, idea that/ Doyle drifted, or
stepped, into spiritualism after the most
important part, of hik fiction had been
written appears to be fallacious. Someone
has stated tor'him that the first thing he
ever wrote was an article on spiritualism,
which is interesting considered in conjunc-
tion with the material logic, the almost
meticulous forging of links, the insistence
not upon possibility but upon probability
in his stories. Again, to have kept so
strong an obsession, or whatever it may be
called, out of his literary work, as he chiellv
did, is another curious point, that Holmes,
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —
the bulwark of our reputation
for honest trading.
Send for our Sale Catalogue—
it contains many hundreds of
household and personal needs
which show generous and genu-
ine reductions. Sent post free
on request.
sszxmm
You can phone us day and night
-M2401.
The Guns and Rifles shown below
are the product of world-famous
makers —their very names are
your assurance of quality—the
name of Anthony Horderns’ is
your guarantee that the reduc-
tions are genuine.
Reductions on Guns and Rifles
£20 WEBLEY-SCOTTS, £18.
DBBL Hammerless Gun, 30in. special steel barrels,
chambered 2|in.; flat engine turned, raised rib,
box-lock action, top lever, treble bite, cross bolt,
selected walnut half-pistol hand stock, neat scroll
and border engraving. Nitro proved—made
expressly to suit Australia and New Zealand.
7|lb., £20. Sale Price *18
£5/15/- EJECTOR GUN, £5
Webley & Scott SBBL Semi-hammerless Ejector
Gun. 30in. special steel barrel, choke bored, top
lever action, nitro proved. Walnut stock, half-
pistol grip. Splendidly balanced and English
throughout. Weight about 61b. Price, £5/137-
Sale Price
£5
£37/10/- HAMMERLESS, £35
WW Greeners’ DBBL Hammerless Gun, made on
facile princeps system of breach mechanism. Side
safe, 30in. steel barrels, both choke. Chambered
for 2|in. cases. Proved for all nitro powders.
A fine-quality gun, excellent for pigeons. Weight
71b. to 81b. Price £3 '/ l _ 0 /:
Sale Price
£35
£15 “B.S.A.,” £13/10/-
The new “B.S.A.” 12-bore Hammerless Pigeon
Gun, chambered for 2|in. cartridges. 30in. Jessops
fluid-compressed steel barrels—right modified, left
full choke; Andson and Deeley type action-action
parts of chrome vanadium steel, nickel steel body.
Proved for heavy charges of nitro powder. Weight
about 71b. Pri— £15. Sale Price £13/10/-
M
£23 HAMMERLESS, £21
D Cashmore’s 1 2G DBBL Hammerless Pigeon Gun.
Cross-bolt action, with automatic safety bolt.
English fine steel barrels. Choke bored Walnut
stock, pistol grip—chambered for 2*111 cart-
ridges. Proved for nitro powders. /lb., X.O.
Sale Price *
£21
£5 HAMMERLESS REPEATING RIFLE, £4/10/-
Savage Model 29. .22 calibre take down, with slide forearm action.
24in. octagonal barrel, with gold-bead front-sight and adjustable Hat
sporting rear-sight. Walnut stock. Will shoot without adjustment .22
short, long or long-rifle rim-fire cartridges Magazine capacity, 20
short, 17 long or 15 long-rifle cartridges. Weight about A new,
smooth-working Savage model, superseding model 25. rrvx,
Sale Price ' ' "
£6/12/6 WINCHESTER CARBINE, £5
.44 calibre only, full or half-magazine, 20in. round barrel, military
sight. Weight about 541 b. Model 1892. Price £6 / 12^
Sale Price
£3/5/- “B.S.A” MINIATURE MATCH, £2/15/-
No. 1 Model. .22 calibre, single-bolt action. Weight 41b. \\oz. A
reliable and inexpensive small-bore rifle, ideal for small game an
target practice—a typically fine “8.5. A.” product. Price .. . • *// /'
Sale Price £2/15/-
90/- CROSMAN AIR RIFLE, 77/6
This is a splendid rifle for target- or small-game shooting. It is 35
inches long and weighs 541 b. A heavy, solid walnut stock, with pistol-
grip and steel butt, gives it excellent balance. Price /
Sale Price
77/6
£l2/12/- SAVAGE BOLT ACTION, £lO/10/-
Savage .250/3000 Model 20—1925, Bolt Action, Solid Frame Repeating
Rifle/ Light weight, with tapered barrel, integral front-sight base,
white metal front and adjustable flat top sporting rear-sight. Walnut
stock, corrugated steel shot-gun butt plate. Six shots—magazine
capacity, 5 cartridges. Weight 51b. 14oz. Price £lO/10/-
Sale Price
22/6 STEVENS* SINGLE SHOT, 20/-
*The Little Scout” Take Down Single-shot Rifle. .22 short and long;
rifle cartridges. 20in. barrel. Weight 2- 4 lb. Price /
Sale Price
(Dept., Ground Floor. Free delivery city and suburbs only.)
i
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
(THE SENIOR STORE)
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS. LIMITED. SYDNEY!
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
The Merron Deposit
and Investment Trust
Limited
(Incorporated under the Companies Acts of New South Wales 1899-1918.)
Authorised Capital - £lOO,OOO
divided into 200,000 shares of 10/- each.
100,000 shares of 10/- each are now offered for public subscription at par on the following terms:—
On application—2/- per share.
On allotment—2/- per share.
And the balance of 6/- per share in three instalments of 2/- each, payable at intervals of two months from date of allotment.
100,000 are held in reserve for future issue at the discretion of the Directors.
DIRECTORS:
HAROLD WILLIAM MILLER, Esq.
(Chairman of Directors),
The Merron Estate Ltd., I I Martin Place, Sydney.
SIDNEY ARTHUR PERRY, Esq.
"Lome,” Greenknowe Avenue, Potts Point.
(Mr. Perry has been actively engaged on the Stock Exchanges
of Australia for the past 20 years.)
FREDERICK C. EMANUEL, Esq.,
Solicitor, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
HERBERT S. BECKENHAM, Esq.,
Late Manager of the Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.,
North Sydney Branch.
FRANCIS J. MORGAN, Esq.,
Retired Merchant,
133 Macleay Street, Pott’s Point, Sydney.
CONSULTING ACCOUNTANT:
NORMAN B. RYDGE, Esq.,
Metropolitan Buildings, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
AUDITORS:
HILL, NOBLE & CO.,
Chartered Accountants, Barrack House, 1 6 Barrack Street, Sydney.
SOLICITORS:
F. C. EMANUEL & PEARCE,
Dalton House, 1 I 5 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BANKERS:
ENGLISH, SCOTTISH & AUSTRALIAN BANK, LTD.,
Martin Place, Sydney.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
L. BUTLER YEATS,
1 1 Martin Place, Sydney.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY.
To-day so vast and complex is the machinery of modern business as
expressed in the form of the Joint Stock Company that no investor, be he
great or small, can afford to neglect or overlook the benefits to be derived
from the operations of a carefully conducted Investment Trust.
Has it ever occurred to you why a wealthy man or corporation gets
a higher return from their capital than the small investor?
The rich man gains more experience in putting money to work, and is
able to command the assistance of those who know more about it than he
does. That is one reason. Also he is able to distribute his money among
various investments in many localities and countries. CONDITIONS ARE
NEVER BAD IN ALL CLASSES OF BUSINESS EVERYWHERE AT THE
SAME TIME. Therefore the risks are reduced to the lowest possible limit.
Men of less means get less experience and help from others, and have
not enough money to buy even one piece of each security that the large
investor holds. Therefore he must, in the ordinary way, buy only the safest
of securities and get a very small return, or run a greater risk to get a
higher one.
To put it another way: An investor to-day can go to any member
of the Stock Exchange and get freely and cheerfully a list of, say, five
securities (the group investment plan) that will combine the essentials
of safe and profitable investment. But he will find that he cannot profitably
purchase an interest in this group with the sum at his disposal. He finds
that he must put “all his eggs in one basket,” or accept something like
savings bank interest or a fixed deposit.
“Odd lots,” as they are termed in Stock Exchange parlance, are
difficult to buy, and still more difficult to sell.
The Investment Trust combines the aggregate investments of thousands
of large and small investors, and can, therefore, invest on highly profitable
terms. It also has the enormous advantage of engaging in the underwriting
and flotation of sound industrials that the individual can never possess.
PRESENT OUTLOOK.
The period of depression and dislocation of trading activities through
which the Commonwealth is passing at present, while distressing individually
and collectively, can only be, in the very nature of human activities and
energy, a passing condition of affairs; and it is certain that the potentialities
of Australia are such that the enormous activities and progress of the last
1 0 years will be more than reproduced when we- are called upon to review
the situation in 1940.
There has, possibly, never been a time in Australian financial history
when collective and judicious purchasing of sound industrial, banking and
insurance investments held such certainty of profit as the present.
THE IDEAL INVESTMENT.
“In the investment of capital there are four main factors to
consider:—
1. Safety of Principal.
2. Increase of Earning Power.
3. Increase of Principal.
4. Ready Marketability of Securities.
"If we grasp the fundamental principles indicated in the four
factors set out above, we may expect reasonable success in building the
edifice of our fortunes. The hoarding of our savings in the vaults of
banks may assure succtess in the first factor without regard to the other
necessary characteristics of an ideal investment. Just as it is easily
made manifest that there is no wisdom in seeking ‘safety’ only, we must
learn to indulge in prudent venturing after reasonably high dividends
associated with possibilities of capital increases. And in all investments
it is wise to keep a constant eye upon the fourth factor of ‘market-
ability,’ as the sound industrialist never loses sight of the feasibility
of marketing the product of his enterprise.”
THE INVESTMENT TRUST FROM THE INVESTOR’S VIEW POINT
An Investment Trust is an institution whose business it is to invest money safely and profitably.
When a Trust is formed it sells its own shares and bonds just as does a Bank, Civic Corporation or Industry.
Then, instead of employing its capital in banking, civic or public works, or manufacturing, thus to make dividends and interest for its investors, the
Investment Trust makes money for its shareholders by advantageously placing its capital in investment securities.
By making a single investment in one good general Investment Trust you are at once investing in the great and widely diversified number of best securities
which the Trust owns.
You are obtaining constant management of a high'order for those diversified securities.
You are automatically arranging to buy or sell individual stocks or bonds as economic conditions make advantageous.
With your £lOO, your £lOOO or your £lO,OOO you are obtaining your pro rata share of the success of the Trust.
You are sharing the facilities and benefits of a large organisation.
The profit possibilities of a well-managed Investment Trust increase with the years as re-investment of surplus becomes a more and more important
factor. The older British Trusts often return 15 per cent., 20 per cent, or 25 per cent, on their original capitalisation.
So stable are the earnings of these older Trusts that their original stock often sells at several times their par value.
After over half a century of successful experience in England, Scotland and America, the Investment Trust has, within a recent period, been introduced
to Australian investors.
NOTE THESE POINTS PARTICULARLY.
1. The Merron Deposit and Investment Trust Ltd. is a registered company,
and able to engage in all the activities of an Investment Trust forthwith.
2. The Merron Estate Ltd. has underwritten 25,000 shares of the first
issue of 1 00,000
3. There is no payment by way of promotors’ shares or cash consideration,
but to the promotors and underwriters is reserved the right to an
allotment of 25,000 shares at par for a period of two years.
4. THE MERRON ESTATE LTD. GUARANTEES TO SHAREHOLDERS
INTEREST AT THE RATE OF 7 PER CENT. PER ANNUM FOR A
PERIOD OF FIVE YEARS FROM DATE OF FIRST ALLOTMENT on
amount of capital paid up on each share.
TERMS OF PAYMENT:
The Board, after carefully reviewing the present position and the probable trend of values during 1930, have concluded that the policy of the Trust
will be best served and the investing power of shareholders increased to its highest! point by calling up the capital in instalments of 2/- per share over a
period of six months.
The guaranteed interest of 7 per cent, per annum by the Merron Estate Ltd. will be paid upon all instalments received from the investor.
Send for full prospectus and forms of application. Shares may be applied for through members of the Stock Exchange or the Secretary,
Merron Deposit and Investment Trust Limited, 11 Martin Place, Sydney.


0
*
k
V.
'll'
&
*
r
COMMERCIAL ART.
Commercial Art and Advertising are creating big business to-day.
That is why TRAINED Commercial Artists are commanding big
incomes. Splendid positions await young people who tram
with us.
YOU who have drawing ability—are you taking advantage of this
opportunity?
The Art Training Institute offers you the teaching of TEN of the foremost
Specialists in the several branches of Commercial Art. Such service “
quite unique and without parallel in the history of Commercial Art in
Australia.
Our Director of Studies, Mr. Tom Alban, if the most highly qualified
Art Instructor in Australia. He is an Exhibitor to Royal Academy,
London; Kings Prizeman, Royal Drawing Society; awarded 1 2 gold, silver
and bronze medals in great National Competitions. He had experience
in Australia with Paton and Price Berry Advertising Services.
PERSONAL OR POSTAL TUITION.
m,
6Oft/es /
lOOjllusartwf
/
The Photographs of our Instructors
appear in our FREE BOOK, THE
NEW ERA OF COMMERCIAL ART,
70 pages, hundreds of illustrations in
full color. SEND FOR IT TO-DAY.
Please mention * The Bulletin and
enclose 9d., cost of registered postage.
Melbourne
at least, would not have left unanswered.
The character of the writer as it comes
out through his work is that of Watson,
though without all the doctor’s obtuseness.
He is a friendly, homely, massive figure, an
English country man, with a relish for
hunting, a strong patriotism and a vigorous
admiration for open-air life and courage.
His proudest recollection is of once having
had Grace caught off his bowling:—
Wicket-keep Storer, the knowing,
Wary and steady of nerve,
Watching it falling and growing,
Marking the pace and the curve.
I stood with my two eyes fixed on it,
Paralysed—helpless—inert;
There was “plunk” as the gloves shut upon it,
And he cuddled it up in his shirt.
Out, beyond question or wrangle!
Homeward he lurched to his lunch,
His back was tucked up at an angle,
His great shoulders curved in a hunch.
This earthiness, so much a part of his
literary work, was not unattached to his
other-worldly ideas. There was room among
his “ghosts” for “mischievous” spirits, and
in the spirit photos he exhibited the figures
usually wore their worldly clothes. How
far from the ethereal and the mystic was
that other-world is well illustrated in such
a verse as “The Passing,” wherein, in
harrowing stanzas, he related how the girl
spirit returned to remind the man she left
behind her of his promise to join her, and
of his doing so with the aid of a pistol, a
knife and a glass of poison, the intention
of the piece apparently being to excuse
suicide. The piece has another point of
interest —it illustrates how very bad English
verse really can be. Doyle, indeed, was
far from being a poet, though his “Who
Carries the Gun?” and other items achieved
almost Newboltian popularity as songs or
recitations, and his collected verse was
issued in one volume only about a year ago.
It is still fairly widely read, even in Aus-
tralia. As for Sherlock, he is here still
something of a best-seller and always rest-
less on the circulating library shelves, as
are Doyle’s fairly monumental history of
spiritualism and other works on that topic.
His history of the war in half a dozen or
so great volumes is rather dead these days;
but, then, he wrote it as a patriot, and
patriotism has long gone stale on the
market. Anyway, Sherlock and Spiritualism
between them may keep his name alive
much longer perhaps than the names of
some of the world’s more important
“literary” figures are likely to last. After
all, Doyle had this simple advantage over
many of them—when he sat down to write
a story- he not infrequently wrote a story.
MACDONALD.
Censoring the Air
Radio listeners have just become aware
that there is a broadcasting censorship and
that H. P. Brown, Director of Posts and
Telegraphs, is the arbiter on things they
shouldn’t hear. He, or the clerical personage
to whom he delegates the job, recently
decided that, some Chopin Preludes were too
long. If he had known as much about music
as he thinks he knows about literature he
would no doubt have excised a dozen bars;
instead, he was obliged to throw out the
objectionable items in their entirety. On the
other hand, he was able to spare a play
that came under his hands because a play is
something that anybody can tamper with—
witness Allan Wilkie’s successful manipu-
lations of Shakspeare. The work in question
was “The White Chateau,” the dramatic
tract against war which Frank Clewlow
broadcast last Armistice Night from 3LO.
Mr. Brown, or his adviser, cut out a quota-
tion from Shelley:—
War is the statesman’s game, the priest’s delight,
The lawyer’s jest, the hired assassin’s trade.
The excision was excused on the ground
that it might hurt somebody’s feelings.
That point of view is responsible for Aus-
tralian broadcasting programmes being the
models of innocuousness that they are. The
endeavor not to hurt anybody results in
pleasing nobody. A commission which
inquired into broadcasting recently in
England came to the conclusion that the
surest way to kill interest in the new form
of entertainment and instruction was to
exclude the controversial, and they deliber-
ately recommended giving the freedom of
the air to every variety of viewpoint, pro-
vided it was responsible and sincere. British
broadcasting is flourishing, while in Aus-
tralia it is doing its best to be a national
bore.
THE LISTENING-INSECT.
The Sowers
them.
The general idea of why war books are
now so popular is that they are read prin-
cipally by the new generation of adults,
who, having no personal conceptions of the
war, would learn from novels even of its
stark horrors. That misses the essential
point: why should these young adults be
so anxious to learn of the war from those
who write of it “with the lid off”?
The simple reason is that ever since the
war. ended practically every boy’s two-
penny weekly has pandered to the primi-
tive blood lust inherent in every boy Dy
printing serials and “chain” stories based
on the war. Of course, as boys are in-
curably romantic, the editors and writers
of these yams have been careful to gloss
over the attendant “frightfulness” of
modern war with the idealistic, distorting
brush of romantic realism. (The heroes
are found only among the airmen, the des-
patch riders, and the crews of submarine
chasers, armored cars and tanks.) Almost
every healthy-minded youngster from 11 to
15 is an enthusiastic reader of one or more
of these cheap magazines, but as he be-
comes older, reaching out into manhood,
mere tales of romantic adventure pall. He
wants something more solid; something
with guts in it. Truth, or what professes
to be truth, appeals more and more to
him; and so, his tastes having been catered
for in one direction so long, it is natural
for him now, at the close of his teens, to
eagerly turn to the books that supposedly
tell true stories of the war without glossing
over any details.
To be fair, the authors of successful war
books should donate a percentage of their
royalties to the unknown men who have
thus made an enormous market ready for
COUNTRY PED.
A Satchel of Books
The Life of Mahomet, by Emile Derming-
hem (Routledge). The translation, by
Arabella Yorke, is woody, and the biography
suffers from the author’s inability to decide
upon a point of view. He writes alternately
as a contemporary and as one looking back
from to-day. Even regarding Mahomet’s
movements he dodges bewilderingly about:
on the one page the Prophet is convincing
sceptics and being nursed by his mother.
In The Twins Murder Case, by Horace
G. Hutchinson (John Murray), one brother
appears to have been drowned and the other
is poisoned. The first catastrophe saves the
family’s motor business, the brother who
was presumably drowned having been in-
sured. This was a fake death. Not so the
other. Which brother dies, and why, and
how? These problems Mr. Hutchinson eluci-
dates with the convincing ease of the born
horror-merchant. An ideal thriller for those
who enjoy being baffled practically to the
last page.
The Patriot's Progress, by Henry William-
liamson (Bles). If “All Quiet” had not been
written this quasi-biographical war novel
would have been more remarkable. It follows
Remarque’s book closely enough in coarse-
ness of language and in kinds of horrors, but
lacks the intensity that lifts its prototype up
to something that looks like lasting litera-
ture. Williamson, author of at least two
books of excellent prose, here adopts the
sawn-off, crude language used by nearly all
war novelists on the British side, apparently
in the belief that it secures the genuine
atmosphere. Like Remarque, Williamson
traces the career of an infantryman (a
Londoner) from civilian life into the army,
into barracks, into a draft, into the line, into
sordid sexual affairs. He differs in keeping
him alive, but with a leg off, a more effective
conclusion. A strong feature of the book
are the lino-cuts by William Kermode which
occupy half or more of almost every one of
190-odd pages. In fact, these are so eloquent
that the book amounts to a novel in lino-
cuts, with letterpress (after Remarque) by
Williamson.
Unsolved Problems: "National and Inter-
national, by John S. Hecht (Jarrolds). The
author seeks a new theory of wages—one
which will be in accord with the Treaty of
Versailles finding (“In fact and in right the
labor of a human being should not be treated
as merchandise or as an article of com-
merce”) ; which will abolish such anomalies
as exist in, say, the current N. S. Wales
wage tax, bleeding the worker who supports
a large family for exactly the same as it
bleeds the worker with no dependants; and
which will ensure a variation in the minimum
wage according to the number dependent
upon the worker. H'is “new wages system” is
based “on equity, and only goes a step
further and introduces generosity in so far as
it compels the better endowed to surrender
a part of that to which they are economically
entitled for the benefit of the less fortunate.”
From this “national” problem he links up
with the “international” problem of trade,
and finds Freetrade fundamentally unsound,
a “fallacious theory.” He sees a strong
.safeguard of world peace in a self-supporting
British Empire. A thoughtful and direct
statement of a case bristling with provocative
points.
The Little Dog Laughed, by Leonard Mer-
rick (Hodder and Stoughton: Dymocks).
Merrick was in Australia a year or so ago,
but there is no evidence of the visit
in his latest collection of stories.
“Mate” might pass for an attempt to
translate our meaning of that word
into narrative if the story were not
set in a place where, in May, the sun begins
to melt the snow. It is curious that he did
not react in some way; perhaps it is his
reaction to use Australia still merely as a
place to send people to. Anyway, “Mate,”
in which he gets into a much mere primitive
setting than his native boulevards and tour-
ing English theatricals, is not a success.
Rough action, deep emotionalism are not his
materials. His touch is delicate: the surface
life that the Parisian or actor appears to live
is the one he can enjoy and miiKj enjoyable.
“He was not precisely heartbroken at the loss
of his wife, for, though she was a fine woman,
she was of a domineering disposition, and
violent when oppos'd, but be had a dramatic .
temperament, and he felt that to shoot her
lover was the thing to do.” Tlmre speaks the
authentic Merrick, and for its occasional
recording of the voice the latest book is an
event. Some of the stories, apart from
“Mate.” arc a little thin, but at their thin-
nest they are engaging in the writer’s own
whimsical fashion.
«
Angus and Robertson’s current or
near-future publications include a .society
novel, “A Loaded Legacy,” by George S.
(Judge) Beeby; a travel-book, “Seventh
Heaven,” by Nina Murdoch; “Forty
Years with the Aborigines,” by Rev. E. R.
Gribble; and “North-west Memories,” by
J. S. Litchfield. Thomas Lothian (Mel-
bourne) is publishing an Outback novel,
“The Vanishing Horsemen,” by A. E.
Yarra.
Answers to Correspondents.
Ko notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted,
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Doris G.: Both have possibilities, but are
stiff in the joints and too slow to the tape....
W.T.J.A.: We’re hungrier for practical pars, that
might put a few bob in other graziers’ pockets....
G.S.H.H.: Wordy as a cricket expert 2173: Tonic
has had its issue of space... .E.E.M.: Can’t recall
the answer, but what you get’s an honest verdict
regardless of feelings. Trouble is that most who ask
for a candid opinion really want it candied
J.L.: Chief defect, staleness... .Sea-jay: You “always
crash badly in spellin’.” And rhymin’... .R.J.W.:
Goods would need to be packed tighter to get carried
here A.C.H.: If this column said the cat was
poisoned with your last lot of verse it must have been
much stronger verse or else a very weak cat....
L.1.U.: bike a stage storm—dry and noisy M.H.:
No “prejudice against unknown poets” or even
known non-poets. They all get a fair spin
D.M.T.: No offer for the Queensland sapphire
8.H.: “The Wealth the Bushlands Hold” all well-
worked ore P.T.: If that’s the horrors either the
Queensland language or the booze has slipped....
G.R.: Concerning the bottom rungs:—
I want to be an actress,
But I’ve nowhere to act—
Fancy being on the stage
With a long Contract.
At the Tivoli once I actually did
Appear before a trial,
I know I was a huge success—
I saw the judges smile.
.... J.MeC.: But that is not real criticism; it is
merely a loud anti-clerical noise... .W.F.A.: Ancient
wheeze... .W.H.C.: Answer to verse entitled
is 5....E.J.: You seem to spar round your
subject without wanting to hit it....H.W.: —
It’s a curious thing, but whenever the spring
Takes a turn to be king, I am tempted to sing.
So many ate; so few do E.E.M.: Proof that good
intentions are not enough... .J.E.M.: But what it
says is far from fresh... .C.P.C.: “The Knock.”
“Come in,” said the basket, with true Oriental
politeness S.R.: Fancy the road ahead is rough.
J.C.W.: Pity it’s too long for this column
J.W.D.: Rhymes read as if you hunted them down
on horseback Bellerive: A beautiful instalment of
the great serial “Zoological Inspiration”:
THE JUMPING SPIDER.
The parasite viper in
Swift merciless way,
By threads of its spinners
Entangles its prey.
Acrobatic and crafty,
’Twill lurk on the sly
To pounce on a grub
Or prancing fly.
{Next week: “Tropical Vampire Bats.")
.... J.W.R.: Lines like “That was autumn, when
leaves doth fall” would be poor even from a poet
laureate.... The Scrubber: “A Chip Off the Old
Block” made a fair blaze... .Miss M.: Nothing in
those Pen: Eight gallons of sentimentalism poured
into the basket D.H.W.: Stamp joined the em-
ployed N.L.D.: Are you really trying to hit a
target? Topside: Performed one somersault....
Augusta: Thanks ; then there is a Hindmarsh-street
in Glenelg... .P.C.: Yes; it must have been the
Pretoria Central. Perhaps the less now said about
Morant and Handcock the better... .H.G.F.: Stoek
tourist matter 0n1y... .P.M.: Afraid “the suffering
crowd” wouldn’t stand it.... J.8.G.: No space for
travel notes.... V.F.: Those days are gone... .D.W.:
Too loosely-strung... .W.N.: Don’t want Carey, drunk
or sober... .G.D.: Fails to convince... .L.S.: Subject
war-worn... .E.M.L.: Stereotyped island story.
C.G.B.: Should say Thomas and Heinrich Mann,
Hauptmann, Sudermann, Jakob Wassermann and
Bernard Kellermann are among Germany’s notable
modern novelists... .V.L.: A first edition of “Jude
the Obscure” is worth 21s. The others are of no
value G.L.: No brief for your barrister
M.J.R.: Ingenious but it doesn’t quite get there.
F.H.E.: Yarn of what to do with a dead cat as
old as Egypt... .Juda: Shrapnel misses the mark....
M.M.: Study in animism over the odds.... Mac C.:
Bunkered F.AV.M.: “Episode of Passion” is that
and nothing more J.M.: Too fragmentary K.E.:
Character sketch without distinction.... E.L.:
Amateurish; still, keep trying 8.M.N.: Pathetic
but ill constructed J. 8.8.: Too short, and motive
too slight G. 5.8.: Could be compressed into half.
. ...C.S.: Nigger story might interest anthropolo-
gists... .T.C.: Sorry can’t use.... Leon B.: A good
story there but you mishandle it....E.D,: Too much
in the minor key....H.E.: “Goin’ Home” it i 5....
R. : Sheep-dog yarn won’t round up cheque.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.D.W.: You’ve forgotten the law of contempt.
It wouldn’t apply to-day, but would if action were
begun before the last copy was 501 d... .A.C.: Do
you draw with your eyes shut?.. . .D.H.: Don sent
back to the pavilion T.E.L.: The w.p.b. was its
journey’s end....R.G.: Tucked it away in the
envelope sent G.G.: Terrified cashier among the
discards F.C.: Not up G.J.: Might find a
buyer elsewhere. Some people are lucky.... G.E.R.:
They deserve a bomb or two, but not that sort....
E.R.: Frogmarched out of the office.... G.L.: Not
a conquering trio... .M.M.: Depressing... .W.T.:
You’re a savage penman but a spiritless jester....
G.H.F.H.: Composition unsatisfactory; linework un-
inspiring G.E.T.: A senile gag....J.L.: Sick art
work A.R.M.: Try some other shop R.L.M.M.:
The Religious Editor planted it A.K.M.G.: Old.
. ...A.K.: Try a suburban paper D.A.S.K.: Put
all you have into your work. No slackness....
D. : Done to death E.S.W.: Looks as if
they’ve been starched... .A.S.: Where’s the joke?
. ...W.L.C.: On the indexG.R.M.: Turned it
over to read the joke on the back. A waste cf
effort.. .. J.N.: Unspeakable.... H.C.8.: Declined.
. .F.S.: Out in a second... .A.E.C.: Keep it up....
S. : Same to you H.A.D. : Not even mediocre.
T.W.D.; You’re better at pars W.C.: Poor.
W.L.C.: Another ancient H.W.T.: Duds
E. : Some other paper might — .E.8.M.: Too
slight D.C.: No home for it here.


9
v
v'
-■ ■ -s
mm
m
MM
mm
I
i,
i
-Jf
m
it W
i
IP
■
mm
m
mm
mmmm
mm
I
H
■
m
1
■
H til
WWfpi
B»Si
V'V....' . ■,
h
ai
Hi
«


The Bulletin
VoL 51.—N0. 2632.
July 23, 1830.
THE SMOKE SCREEN.
“Will any critics support reduction of old-age and invalid pensions at a time of acute distress?"— Priminister Scullin, replying, with a break m Ins voiee, to' demands for
a d ecrease in the enormous departmental vote.
THE PRIME MINISTER: “For Heaven’s sake don’t shoot, man! Don’t you see these poor, deserving, honest people?"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 211; George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: IH-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westuama : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to anv address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 ,)s.; 6 months, 12s. 6a.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. Cd.; S months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: lOoz., Id. United Kingdom; 1/oz. to lQoz., lid.;
each additional J/oz., Id. All Sea Route-: ltioz., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: l/oz. or part thereof,
Id. elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED page LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 6
ARE YOU A POET ? by Cecil Mann . . . . 2
SHERLOCK HOLMES’S INVENTOR . . . . 2
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON . . . . 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
TAXES: HOW TO TELL GOOD FROM BAD.. S
THE TURNING OF THE TIDE . . .. 8
“WE DOCTORS ARE FED UP”—
By two of them . . . . . . 8
IRRESPONSIBLE GOVERNMENT . . . . 8
WHAT IS IT BRINGS IMMIGRANTS? .. 9
OUR OWN SCRAPS OF PAPER . . . . 9
THE RUSH FOR CLEAN-COLLAR JOBS .. 9
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 15
POLITICAL POINTS (with cartoonlets by
Frith) .. .. .. .. .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) . . . . 11, 12
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 13
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC IS
PERSONAL 14
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..16
WHAT THE AUSTRALIAN BOY THINKS OF
“HAMLET” (with drawings by Frith). . 16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 17, 18
THIS WEEK’S INVESTMENT TIP . . . . 17
Q. N. BANK 17
CO-OPERATIVE INSURANCE CO 17
ALLEN TAYLOR 17
CHECKER CABS (Sydney) 17
ROBUR TEA CO 17
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS 18
INVESTMENT QUESTIONS ANSWERED .. 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 20, 21
MAN ON THE LAND 22, 25
RICE-GROWING IN AUSTRALIA . . . . 22
SOME FALLOWING STATISTICS . . . . 22
LIGHT-LAND HANDLING IN W.A 22
THE SEED-GERMINATION TEST . . . . 22
FARM QUESTIONS ANSWERED . . . . 25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT 26
SMOKE-OH (with drawings) ... .. .. 28
POVERTY POINT 31
THE PALETTE 31
SHADOW SHOWS 33
SPORTING (illustrated) .. .. .. 35, 36
MELBOURNE AND SYDNEY RACING .. 35
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 39
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 41
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 44
THE SERIAL—
“THE PASSAGE,” by Vance Palmer.. 42, 43, 45
AS WE SAID BEFORE—With drawings by Phil
May and “Hop” .. .. . . .. 47
A COMPLETE STORY—
“The PERKINESS OF PERKINS,”
By Harold Mercer . . .. . . 49, 50
VERSE—By Eileen Duggan, Mary Walker,
Lilia Gormhuille McKay, Phyllis Rowley.. 50
NEXT WEEK.
“THIRTY PIECES OF SILVER,”
Monty Grover’s story of a Journalist’s Life, will
open in this number and will be continued in large
instalments until completed.
ffli'e'^xiUeiz/Zl
WEDNESDAY, JULY 23, 1930.
TAXES: HOW TO TELL GOOD
FROM BAD.
It is all-important at present to keep clearly
in mind the fact that our obligations are of
two kinds—domestic and external. Our
domestic obligations include interest on
loans which we have made to ourselves.
Default in regard to these can always be
avoided, because the Government has the
power of levying taxes sufficient to cover
the debt. In plain words, it could in the
last resort tax the community to the full
extent of the interest payable. It is true
that the Commonwealth loans are exempt
from State taxation; but the taxing power
of the Commonwealth itself is practically
unlimited. The external debt is quite a
different matter. No amount of local taxa-
tion can pay a farthing of the interest on
that debt—unless the tax is payable in
gold; and it would be no more possible to
collect an Australian tax in gold than in
icebergs. This foreign debt has to be paid in
gold; and; since no amount of local taxes will
pay any of it, there are only two ways in
which we can get a clearance: one by bor-
rowing abroad and paying with the proceeds
of the loans, which means that we merely
defer the payment; the other by exporting
enough gold or staples that can be
exchanged for gold. The gold we have not
got, so in practice we have to depend on the
staples.
Unfortunately we do not fix the prices of
these staples. The world does that for us;
and, still more unfortunately, present prices
are extraordinarily low in almost every
market in which we are interested. But
whether the markets are high or low we
must meet them—always presuming that
we do not adopt the course of deferring pay-
ment by borrowing. And when it conies to
borrowing we are not our own masters any
more than we are in the commodity
markets of the world. Before we can
borrow we must find a lender; and the man
who goes out to borrow in order to pay
interest on earlier loans has a cold reception.
He may possibly raise the money, but it will
be in uncertain amounts and on hard terms.
The man or the nation that relies upon this
plan for paying interest is therefore court-
ing trouble. Bankruptcy generally follows
sooner or later. We may be able to tide
over our own immediate difficulties by this
method; indeed it is no doubt with a view
to help us do it that Sir Otto Niemeyer, of
the Bank of England, has come to Aus-
tralia. But, at best, the Bank of England
will certainly offer us no more than tem-
porary accommodation while we are putting
our affairs in order.
Our exports have to do two things. They
have to pay for our imports and they have
to meet our interest bills. The. Government
saw the light clearly when it decided that
the more that was paid for imports the
less would be left for interest; indeed, for
many years less than nothing was left, the
exports not even paying for the imports.
And since w'e could not “go broke” through
doing without foreign goods, while we most
certainly would “go broke” through not
paying our interest, the proper course—the
only honest course—was taken and imports
were either prohibited or severely discour-
aged by heavy duties. But while one eye is
kept on the imports, the other must be
kept on the exports. These must continue;
they would have to continue even if every
line of foreign goods was prohibited; they
wmuld have to continue to the extent of
upwards of 30 millions a year. And in prac-
tice, since some imports are unavoidable—
they are in many cases the raw materials
of our manufactures—they must very
greatly exceed 30 millions. Therefore there
is a further indispensable thing: to keep
the cost of production from going beyond
the price at which we can sell the neces-
sary amount of goods abroad.
During the past few days a Taxpayers’
Association has been formed in Sydney.
There ought to be a taxpayers’ association;
but its purpose should be quite definite.
Mere reduction of taxes on general prin-
ciples is not the thing that should be aimed
at. It is not our convenience that matters
half so much as the salvation of Australia
from going into default—from failing, in
short, to pay its creditors on the due dates.
Hence with regard to any tax only two
questions are seriously worth asking in our
present situation: (1) Will it reduce
imports and therefore the demand for ex-
ports (which are so difficult to get) and thus
relieve the strain of finding gold to pay
our interest obligations? (2) Can it be
collected without necessarily increasing the
cost of producing such goods as we must
export? If it will reduce the demand for
exports—that is to say, if it will reduce
the outflow of gold or the equivalent of
gold—it is doing an essential job. If any
tax which is not doing that essential job is
necessarily increasing the cost of produc-
tion of the goods we must export, it is not
an honest tax, for it tends to defraud our
creditors. And in that case, unless some
other tax can be found which will not have
that defect, such economies should be made
as will render it unnecessary.
THE TURNING OF THE TIDE.
“Supposing a man lost £lO,OOO in his business in
1928. and £9OOO in 1929, and £BOOO in 1930, it
is clear that the tide has turned. If it keeps on
at that pace the man will be rich one day, pro-
vided he lasts long enough.”—From the “Letters of
a Badly-Made Merchant to His San.”
That explains the position of Australia as
regards its multitudinous overseas creditor.
The tide has turned, but it has a long way
to go, and the problem is whether the Com-
monwealth will live, in the sense of remain-
ing out of the bankruptcy court, long
enough to see it arrive. Now that statistics
for eleven months (to the end of May,
1930) are available the verdict is that the
situation, which was distinctly improving
at the end of April, has improved further.
But the progress isn’t fast, and meanwhile
the gold reserves of the banks have been
used up at an alarming pace in the effort
to postpone a crisis.
The case may be illustrated thus:—
Before Definite Slump in Value of Our. Exports.,
Exports
(including Imports and
1929. Gold Output). Interest. Shortage.
April ..£12,036,466 £13,707,660 £1,671,194
May . . 9,961,359 13,276,280 3,323,921
Growing Slump in Export Values, but Imports
Keep Up.
June .. 7,456,062 15,006,487 7,550,425
July . . 6,500,398 15,230,293 8,729,895
August . . 6,205,164 14,762,167 8,557,003
September. . 7,996,976 14,665,142 6,668,166
October .. 9,415,790 15,257,564 5,841,774
November.. 10,497,795 15,630,978 5,133,183
December.. 9,731,766 12,654,427 2,922,661
1930.
January .. 6,962,785 14,721,853 7,759,068
Imports are Reduced under New Tariff, but
Export Values Remain Low.
February .. 9,072,690 11,693,830 2,621,140
March . . 8,861,779 12,765,416 3,903,637
April . . 7,603,682 11,192,409 3,588,727
May . . 8,411,923 10,946,820 2,534,897
In the first stage the Commonwealth was
heading towards ruin at about the usual
pace, the incapable Bruce-Page steering the
ship. But the shortage was covered by over-
seas loans, in the way for which Bruce-Page
was notable. Trouble arrived when loans
ceased in both London and New York, as
loans must needs do some day, though the
Bruce-Page was strangely incapable of
realising the fact. Still there was a twilight
or tapering-off period before the orgy
finished. Small temporary issues of high-
interest-bearing bills were sold and bank
overdrafts abroad w r ere cultivated.
The second stage and the first overlapped
because the same crowd was in charge for
a while, and scraps of overseas accommoda-
tion were still available. But June (or pos-
sibly May), 1929, was marked by a great
fall in the value of- exports, while no one
had the sense to make sure that imports
were reduced to correspond. In June, July,
August, September and October, 1929,
the Commonwealth was going to the bad
in its foreign dealings at the rate of about
£89,000,000 per annum. Allowing for
some improvement in export returns at the
end of the year, Australia promised to go
broke for at least £50,000,000 at an early
date, and to stay broke.
But a new chapter, the third of this series,
was opened by the new Government in
November, 1929, which was very early in
its career. It set to work to drastically cut
down imports for the first time. It was a
matter of some time, however, for the new
tariff to produce results, and a great many
more results are urgently required, and are
confidently expected. The position might
have become square by now if the values of
exports had risen, but they haven’t. The
tendency is rather the other way. The
seizure and export of a very large propor-
tion of the banks’ gold reserves has helped
to tide over the situation, and now a
£30,000,000 loan is being earnestly besought
to tide over the rest of it till the importing
curse is adequately flattened.
“AVE DOCTORS ARE FED UP.”
From a score of contributions on this sub-
ject (B. 9/7/’3O) we select these two: —
“Also Full Up” reports another in-
justice to the profession.
We are fed up. Not content with en-
couraging patients to get free medical and
surgical attendance at our hospitals, the
N. S. Wales Government by its Legal Aid
Department also encourages absurd actions
against the unfortunate honorary surgeon.
Of course, one recognises that all Govern-
ment departments have to justify their exist-
ence and convince the public—or rather the
voter —that they supply a long-felt want;
but though there may be some cases in
which their aid is necessary, surely the
department could be administered with a
slight degree of commonsense.
A ease recently tried before the Chief
Justice and a jury will illustrate what I
mean.
Five years ago a patient was admitted
to one of our metropolitan hospitals suffer-
ing from a compound septic fracture of his
leg. The unfortunate surgeon under whose
care he was placed—a most careful and
painstaking man—spent a deal of time and
had numerous X-ray pictures taken in an
endeavor to save the limb and get a good
result.
Three years after leaving the hospital the
man applied to the Legal Aid Department
and brouglit an action against his employers
in which he was unsuccessful. Two years
later —that is, five years after leaving hos-
pital—he again applied to the Legal Aid
Department, and this time it supported him
in an action for £5OOO against the surgeon.
The case—as previously stated —was tried
before the Chief Justice and a jury and
failed, the Chief Justice remarking that
the action should never have been brought.
Now mark the result. In an ordinary
action the unsuccessful party would have
to pay costs. But not the Government. It
only pays its own costs, and, presumably,
collects them if the action is successful.
If not, the taxpayers foot the bill. The
surgeon had to pay his own costs, £4OO, and
the patient went on his way realising it
was a case of “Heads I win, tails you lose.’’
Any hospital patient who in the future does
not institute an action against the honor-
ary surgeon, no matter what the result may
be, good or bad, is a born fool. The surgeon
may be induced to pay something less than
£4OO, which he would be called upon to pay
as costs, etc., to avoid the loss of time
and worry of an action, and whichever way
things go the patient can’t lose.
One hopes that the Minister for Health,
when he can spare time from milk and apples,
will remedy this, but I am afraid it is hope-
less.
“S.N.R.” agrees that the profession is
fed up and says the remedy is in its
own hands.
The woes of “Claude Oesophagus” are
genuine enough, but his “De profundis” is
addressed to the wrong Deity. His pro-
fession —and mine—has heretofore always
been able to carry 30 per cent, of L.O.G.
(Love o’ God) charity cases. The intro-
duction of another 30 per cent, of dishonest
dead-heads is due solely to the disinclination
of the body of leeches to say No—and
mean it.
“The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars,
But in ourselves, that we are underlings.”
A doctor’s training and knowledge of
psychology should have taught him that it
is not seemly, necessary or expedient to go
whining to the State for doles merely be-
cause his class has failed in the elements
of organisation. When Australians were
much more poorly paid than they have
been during the last decade, at least 50 per
cent, of them considered professional relief
of a real stomach-ache to be worth the
price of three golf balls. But, while chemists,
herbalists and purveyors of medical nos-
trums have succeeded in keeping out of
the Bankruptcy Court, the “noblest pro-
fession” has come to take an undue interest
in the modus operandi of bailiffs. It has
been seduced into subscribing to the idea
that the preservation of a citizen’s health
is of less importance—and accordingly less
worthy of being paid for —than the motor-
car, gramophone, pianola, radio-set or
picture-show of those who can’t—because
they won’t —pay for medical services ren •
dered. In short, the profession has acquired
an inferiority complex.
But the remedy for its gradual pauperisa-
tion is not to be found in joining the ranks
of the bounty-seeking, dole-expectant “Gim-
mes.” Bather will doctors have to learn that
the democratic god—more than any other
helps those who help themselves. They must
work for organisation in city, town and
hamlet. The legal profession, with more
astuteness, has seen to it that but few of
those whose property or liberty is threatened
mulct its members of fees due for protective
services rendered. If life, liberty and the
pursuit of happiness (i.e., health) be the
true democrat’s desiderata, that section of
the community which works to preserve the
life and health of others —often at the risk
of its own health and reputation —is entitled
to adopt all legitimate measures for its
self-protection.
And commonsense organisation, I repeat,
is the chief of these. No ethical or humani-
tarian tenet can demand that medical men
continue to give their services to the “average
man” seeking, under cover of subsequent
blackmail, to “get all the treatment he wants
free of charge.” What then to do? Each
and every medical man can see to it that (1)
the deserving poor are treated gratis, (2)
those who can afford to pay promptly are
required to do so, (3) those who ask time
to pay are called upon to show their bona
fides. Before all, the profession should put
its own house in order, and, after all dis-
ciplinary measures have failed, but not till
then, should it be advised to ask an already
over-taxed community to subsidise its weak-
kneed attempts to conduct a quite legitimate
professional business.
IRRESPONSIBLE GOVERNMENT.
During the war Australians gave up their
liberties on the understanding that they
would get them back when the Empire’s life
was out of danger. They battled hard to
have Hughes’s War Precautions Act re-
pealed. When are they going to start
fighting for the liberties they have been
giving away ever since?
Despite the cynics, the war was essen-
tially one for freedom on the part of both
Britons and Australians: they were against
what they called Prussianism. They did not
want to see others regimented even for their
own good, and much less did they want to
be regimented themselves. Hostility to
forms of unfreedom, not to say tyranny,
which are rather welcomed by Frenchmen
and Italians (who favor, respectively, gov-
ernment by officials and government by
dictators), has always been a characteristic
of the people of Britain. They will put
up with military discipline for a purpose,
but as soon as the crisis is over they get
rid of their brass-hats, censors, price-fixers,
wage-fixers and boards with all possible ex-
pedition. Australians, on the other hand,
are getting back to the condition of servi-
tude they had to endure throughout the
war, with the difference that they have no
hope of waking up one day to find it at an
end.
The people of N. S. Wales alone are inter-
fered with by upwards of 15 different boards,
most of which are directed by practically
unknown irresponsibles. The Milk Board
fixed a price for milk to the consumer last
week, based chiefly on the desire of the
Milk Vendors’Association to charge approxi-
mately Bd. a quart. Yet there are scores of
vendors who can make a living by selling
at sd. a quart. The Bread Board favors
something in the neighborhood of sd. a
loaf. Yet a well-known firm of bakers
told Sydney “Evening News” that they
were anxious to go on selling bread at
two loaves for 7-kl., and country bakers can
do well at a loaf. Egg, Fisheries, Honey
and other boards come between retailers
and the public on similar lines, and are
responsible to nobody for the mistakes they
make. The Main Roads Board, for ex-
ample, has spent over 12 millions since
1924 on motor speedways in N. S. Wales—
an appalling blunder in view of the present
financial crisis, which was confidently pre-
dicted as far back as 1924.
While Boards, Federal and State, spurred
on, as a rule, by the prosperous, are raising
prices against the poor, Trades Hall officials,
spurred on by a few selfish unionists, and
operating in exactly the same way, are
keeping the poor out of jobs.
Our civilian n.c.o.’s mean well, almost
without exception. But that is no comfort
to those who are ruined by their activities,
and in any case they are out of place
except in emergency periods. The book and
film censors, for example—like the passport
system which the politicians have preserved
and turned into a means of collecting
income tax —derive straight from the war.
There was no inrush of immoral books or
films before the censors’ jobs were created,
and there would be none if their jobs went
by the board to-morrow. The only change
would be for the good. The law governing
obscene publications would resume its
sway, and importers would know where
they were—an advantage they can never
enjoy under the present slap-dash arrange-
ment by virtue of which a dozen suggestive
books and films are let in, and thereby
endorsed, for every one that happens to be
noticed and banned.
One of Australia’s greatest troubles is
that it has exchanged the rule of law for
rule by regulations and proclamations, and
has exchanged Parliamentary government
for government by officials. If most of
them were got rid of not only would large
sums of money be saved, but social and
industrial unrest would be diminished.
There is a significant resemblance between
present-day unrest and the unrest of the
war years, which arose largely from im-
patience with well-intentioned but brainless
tyrannies and despair at the spectacle of
influential duds in big jobs.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Immigration Problems.
An aching void would be filled if so™
authority would work out a satisfactoiy
Law of Immigration. Reliable records ex-
tend back 79 years with these rather con-
fused results:- Excessof
Arrivals over
Departures.
1851-1860 (First gold boom. Best year’s
gold output, that of 1853, £12,975,102) 5 . -
1861-1870 (Boom still in good health) .. 106,06.
1871-1880 (Slow decline of gold boom)..
1881-1890 (Further decline, but land boom
hustling) .. .... ■ • • • ’
1891-1900 (Second gold boom. Best year s
gold output, that of 1899, £11,533,190) -4,
1901-1910 (Top of second gold boom. Best
year’s gold output, that of 1903,
£16,302,900) .. • • • • •• 40,48 j
1911-1920 (Many people departed for the
war and did not return, still the
gain was) • • . ' * 207 > 571
1921-1929 (Gold output smallest since
records began, but loan boom almost
incredible) • • 299,682
In 1930 it is understood that immigration
has wholly ceased, and that departures are
in excess of arrivals; but more definite
information will turn up later.
So far as any conclusions can be drawn
from this complicated tale, it looks as if
only the picturesque and personal has much
power to attract population. A comparison
between the net immigration of the two
great gold-boom periods is significant of
this. The first was the day of the digger
and his big nugget, around both of which
no end of highly colored stories could be
hung. The Eureka Stockade fight may have
been worth 100,000 immigrants; and there pro-
bably never was a well-advertised bushranger
who wasn’t worth 10,000 “hardy pioneers.’
The second and bigger gold boom was of an
entirely different variety. There was far less
scope for the individual. Paunchy capitalists
got in early, and floated big companies of
absentees. The bushrangers certainly bush-
ranged, but it was on the Stock Exchange.
So the second gold boom didn’t bring
new settlers to Australia as the first one
did, or as the first boom did in combination
with land-settlement when good land was
plentiful. It would be absurd to imagine
that Westralia’s big and sudden gold yield
actually chased intending immigrants away;
but they certainly didn’t come, in spite of
the gold. A possible explanation is that dur-
ing the period when real wealth was being
produced we concluded that that would be
sufficient attraction, and left off telling the
picturesque stories. And that theory _ is
supported by the fact that in the ensuing
dqcade, which included the ghastly war
years, the excess of arrivals over departures
was five times greater than in the Kalgoorlie
gold-boom period. In short, the Digger with
his picturesque tales did for Australia what
the digger with his picturesque tales had done
60 years earlier. And the figures were even
larger during the ensuing loan-boom period
when it was possible to tell tales of fortunes
made out of land speculation.
So far, then, as this leads us anywhere it is to
this conclusion: that the general wealth of a
country makes little appeal to the immigrant.
What attracts him is the highly colored
story of individual and personal success.
*
The Lure of the White Collar.
“Australian boys continue to compete eagerly for
jobs which are consistent with clean collars and
unsoiled hands. In regrettably large numbers Aus-
tralian fathers and mothers are to be found support-
ing their offspring in this snobbery. 'Age .
“Country Ped.”: And who’s to blame?
Emphatically not the boys, for they are only
what they have been made. Before me lies
the record of 22 of them who at the begin-
ning of this year passed out of my hands
for higher education. Each boy was asked
to state the occupation he desired to follow,
and 12 of them preferred hand work, while
two made no choice. That the majority
wanted to be farmers (3), sailors (2),
mechanical engineer (1), butcher (1), car-
penter (3), motor-mechanic (1) and grocer
(1) should effectively dispose of the conten-
tion that most boys, of themselves, seek
white-collar jobs. Thirteen boys were recom-
mended to proceed to the technical school,
and only one parent, with quite justifiable
reasons, vetoed the recommendation. So
the parents are not so culpable, after all.
The only other agency that could make the
majority of boys seek a white-collar job is
the school, or, rather, the educational sys-
tem under which our schools work.
In their worthy desire for the higher
education for all children, our educationists
allowed zeal to outrun discretion. _ By cajo-
leries and even threats from inspectors,
primary teachers were forced to place pupils
in the nearest high school, whether suited
for the academic type of education or not.
Parents, urged on by common parental
jealousy, soon adopted the idea that every
child should go to the high school, even if
only for a couple of years. Is it any wonder
that our boys have been turned against
their own natural desires and instincts?
But the pendulum is swinging back. I
recently heard an inspector publicly express
regret that through his misguided efforts so
many farmers’ sons had been turned into
bank clerks.
— *
Our Own Scraps of Paper.
It is often complained that some foreigners
take out naturalisation papers here without
intending to become bona fide Australians.
The case of one Gus Dehle, of Hobart, sup-
plies an explanation, not to say a justification.
This man was denaturalised in Bremen,
and came to Australia as a boy of 17 in
1887, having left Germany, like many pre-
war Germans, because his parents were sick
of Prussianism. He pioneered co-operative
dairying in Hobart, built up a big business,
and married an Australian. He was natural-
ised here before Federation, so that, on the
institution of the Commonwealth, he
acquired the rights apd privileges of a
native-born. In addition to his German
denaturalisation and Australian naturalisa-
tion papers, he has a letter from the Tas-
manian Military Commandant stating that
“no charge of disloyalty was ever made
against him, and that he is not known
have been guilty of any act or word
which could be considered disloyal.” Yet
he was interned during the war, and has not
been able to get redress since.
Under the idiotically tyrannical Hughes
administration, this country, though 12,000
miles from the world’s storm centre, was put
in what the French call a “state of siege.”
The War Precautions Act gave irresponsible
officials—some competent and fairminded,
but many the reverse —despotic powers over
the citizens’ liberties and properties. Natu-
rally many injustices were done, and, above
all, to those of German origin.
Things were, and are, different in Europe.
Britain has always been extremely careful
to honor its naturalisation papers, which
is why many of its leading military- and
naval-service families, such as the Yon
Donops, are patriotic Britons though their
ancestors were foreign subjects. Australia will
not begin to similarly turn good foreigners
into good Australians until it adopts the
same policy—until, that is, it satisfies the out-
side world that when it accepts a foreigner
as a citizen it means it, in war as well as in
peace. A beginning might be made in the
case of this particularly ill-used Dehle.
♦
Unknown Australia.
From Dr. A. P. Elkin, who has done scien-
tific research work in those parts:—
“Smithfield,” in his article on Eastern
Kimberley (B. 2/7/’3O), over-estimates the
allurements and rewards of that region. The
very parts to which he refers have been
occupied for over 40 years by “big men with
stout hearts,” the type of men to whom lie
now appeals. One of them (J. P. Durack)
was on a commission which in 19-8 in-
quired into the parlous condition of the
cattle industry in Westralia. The State
meatworks at Wyndham, unfortunately, did
not usher in the Golden Age. They can only
function during the dry winter half of the
year, as cattle cannot be brought in during
the “wet.” Almost all the employees have
to be carried each year from Perth, or even
from Sydney, and paid travelling expenses
and also such wages as will compensate them
for a possible lack of employment during the
remainder of the year. But an industry which
pays a year’s wage for six or seven months
labor cannot be expected to return a profit,
and the Wyndham works do not pay.
Incidentally, the return to the cattle : raiser
averages about £3 16s. per head, delivered.
Obviously a person must be in a big way-
liold a lot of country and possess big herds
—to make a reasonable living at that rate.
The cattleman is not, however, absolutely
tied down to this market. He may dispose
of the leaner kind to the Island trade at £5
per head at the boat. But Southern Kim-
berley, with Broome and Derby for its ports,
rather than Eastern Kimberley, benefits from
this, for Wyndham is somewhat off the mam
Island route. There is a third market,
Perth, though it is not without its draw-
backs. The freight from Wyndham to Perth
works out at about £6 per head. In addi-
tion, there are the droving charges —anything
up to 400 miles of them—the selling charges,
and the risk of losing cattle on the long
journey south. Unless a top market be
struck, there is a good chance of a loss on
the consignment.
These facts suggest that Eastern Kimber-
ley is at present the country for the big
man, or the company like Vesteys. The
latter hold a great stretch of the region.
Emerson tells us that “Time dissipates to
shining ether the solid angularity of facts.
Distance may have a similar effect. la
visit the region in the dry winter season ;
to enjoy the great rivers, the impassable
gorges, the lily-lagoons and the almost
boundless plains, broken here and there by
sentinel-like sandstone residuals or lines of
hills rising abruptly out of the surrounding
flat country, and resembling huge mythical
serpents dragging themselves across the
land; to mingle on almost familiar terms
with the kangaroo, wild turkey, duck, geese
and native companion, and. maybe, croco-
dile, is one thing. But to wrest a living
out of the land and truly to settle there
with wife and family is another. The time
for this true settlement may be coming
that is, when the meat market has been
stabilised, the means of communication
improved, and extras, beyond a roof and
rations, with which to counteract the disad-
vantages of the tropical summer, have been
made available to all concerned, owners
managers, stockmen and their families.
Meantime, let us think of these things, and
not just leave it to the individual of stout
heart, and to his wife of even stouter heart,
to face —perhaps successfully, perhaps not.
$
Labor in the Canefields.
Dear Bulletin.— A point that can now
be made confidently is that British labor
is quite as reliable in northern cane-
fields as Italian. In 1929 the growers in the
South Johnstone area granted preference of
70 per cent, to British-born cutters. At the
end of the season the general manager spoke
in glowing terms of their work. In the mill
areas of greatest efficiency, i.e., Mulgrave,
Babinda, South Johnstone, Mossman and
Tully. an average of more than 75 per cent.
British cutters is employed as a matter of
policy.
What The Bulletin (18/6/’3O) says about
the devil-may-care attitude of the British
canecutter is unfortunately correct. Or,
rather, was. For the period of indiscipline has
definitely passed; the A.W.U. has pulled it-
self together and regained a good deal of
lost ground, and the type of British workei
now to be seen is first-class.
The agitation at present stirring North
Queensland is against the persistent “peace-
ful penetration” of the foreigner, chiefly
Italian; and there is every reason to hope
that the authorities in the industry will
evolve an equitable solution. And any
equitable solution will demand a greater
proportion of British labor. It obviously
would be absurd for the. South to heavily
subsidise an industry employing any large
percentage of Southern Europeans. Youis,
etc., John Bailey.
4
The Social Evil of Flat-dwelling.
Usually the question whether a given dis-
trict shall allow flats to be built is settled
in accord with the interests and prejudices
of the ratepayers immediately concerned;
but the time has come when the question
should be considered on a national basis.
It is a social problem affecting Australia
probably more than any other country be-
cause of the exceptional concentration of
population in our cities and large towns.
Cost of transport to and from work is an
appreciable factor in the cost of living in
such centres, land values in and near metro-
politan areas are ridiculously high, and the
economic case for the flat-dweller is a
strong one. Fifty families domiciled on the
area devoted to the usual suburban cot-
tage get off with a small individual
ground-rent, and the prospect of savings in
tram, ’bus, rail or ferry fares is a power-
ful stimulant to the building of flats as
close to the geometrical centre of popula-
tion as possible. But when the flat system
spreads to districts three, four or five miles
from an urban hub, the only sound argu-
ments in favor of it no longer have force.
There is only one feasible reason why it
should so overflow, and that is because an
increasing number of people, haying weighed
the disadvantages of flat-dwelling, are pre-
pared to put up with these rather than
assume the greater responsibilities of home-
making and home-tending as their forebears
understood those terms.
It is a bad tendency, at war with many
of the social virtues; yet absolutely pro-
hibitive legislation, local or national, is not
likely to provide a quick cure. What
might be done, as an antidote to the
schemes of speculative builders and as a
provision for the welfare of children, is
for each group of urban municipalities to
agree upon a sort of zone ordinance, de-
creeing that a certain area of land, pro-
portioned to that occupied by the building,
and increasing by a defined ratio as distance
from the centre is increased, shall be allotted
to each flat-dwelling. There is ample prece-
dent for that sort of regulation, and ample
evidence of the benefits to be derived
from it.
♦
The Uses of Severity.
Dear Bulletin, —G. B. Shaw was “still
standing on his head” when he argued the
other day that flogging did not stop garrot-
ting—that this crime “died out like the
recent window-slashing epidemic.” Window-
slashing, hair-snipping and kindred imbecili-
ties never dip out. Garrotting was coming
to be regarded as the safest way of making
easy money when the Old Bailey Judges
began sentencing garrotters to the lash. The
business died almost in a night. I was in
London towards the end of last century
when the blackmailing of alleged homo-
sexualists was at its height. Justice Haw-
kins began imposing his frightful sentences
—accompanying each with an address to
the prisoner for publication in the press—
and the effect was little short of magical.
The true position with regard to legal
punishments seems to be this. Neither life
sentences, floggings nor hangings do much to
diminish “crimes of passion” (murders of
jealousy, revenge, etc.) or the moron crimes,
such as assaults on children. But when a
man knows that if he takes to blackmail
and is found out he will certainly get 14
years, and that, if he is convicted of slash-
ing or battering a citizen in order to make
robbery safer he will certainly be flogged,
then he will nearly always refrain. Every
criminologist is aware that crimes of pre-
meditation can be eliminated temporarily
by flogging. The cocaine traffic, for
example, which is ruining lives wholesale,
could be given its death-blow if runners
were automatically ordered to be thrashed
on conviction. In this nervous age, when
everybody reads the papers, an almost
hysterical dread of the lash has grown up.
However, there is rarely any certainty
that a flogging will be ordered for any
crime. Some Judges favor it, some don’t,
and in any event the last word rests with
the Government. In other words, uncer-
tainty—the factor which is making criminal
justice a by-word in the U.S.A.—dominates
the situation. Wherever this element is
eliminated results are obtained.—Yours, etc.,
Inner Temple.
4
A Clean-up Is Called For.
South Africa is taking resolute action in
regard to the growing Communist menace
to the Union. At a recent meeting in Cape-
town a colored Professor Thaele announced
the formation of the African National Con-
gress, which aims at the establishment of a
black republic, content to utilise the ser-
vices of Europeans to develop the country,
but only as hirelings and in no sense as
fellow-citizens. Despite the fact that the
meeting was licensed under the Riotous
Assemblies Act, the Professor was arrested,
and deportation as provided by the Act will
probably follow, even though the dusky
Mirabeau is a native of the Union.
Australia is seriously enough beset with
irresponsible chatterers of the Thaele type
and worse, but at least it is spared the
menace of a huge negro population which
the spread of civilisation has not only main-
tained, but permitted to increase at an
astonishing rate. Nevertheless, we are in
little less danger of national extinction than
the negro-beset Afrikanders. Within the past
generation the country’s productivity has
been whittled down by the absorption of
doctrines such as those preached by Thaele.
The spirit which once animated the people
of this continent, and which raised a one-
time convict settlement to a proud place
in the Empire, has taken wings. Our obses-
sion for sport, and especially for that sordid
type which depends on gambling, has been
a great handicap to progress. In such
fertile soil the doctrine of the mostly im-
ported wrecker has taken root, and the
careless complaisance of the Australian has
nursed the noxious weed.
The country in which there was good-
humored antagonism between differing poli-
tical faiths is now sharply divided into two
sections, each distrusting and disliking the
other, while watching every opportunity to
sprag the other’s wheel. The situation is
aggravated by an elaborately artificial arbi-
tration system which has long amused the
outside world and has done as much as
Red penetration to place Australia m its
present unenviable position.
The solution is a ruthless cleaning up of
existing institutions. Arbitration and Agita-
tion alike call for drastic amendment.
Especially does the country need to be
armed with definite powers against those
who openly announce themselves as
destroyers of the national polity. Neaily
every civilised country, including demo-
cratic America, is equipped nowadays with
a forthright weapon of the kind.
4
Too Much Nigger Music.
To quarrel with the aesthetic taste of a
generation or a country is a thankless task,
but something really ought to be done to
save Australia from the. products of Ameri-
can jazz factories.
In the days when an individual had to
learn how to play some sort of an instru-
ment or go on very short musical rations,
he (or she) had perforce to enter the
portals of the temple under the guidance oi
more or less scholarly students of the art.
But in face of the invasion of pianolas,
phonographs and the wireless, teachers of
music are becoming an extinct race, and the
musical field, such as it is, is becoming
more and more the happy hunting-ground
of the purveyors of musical trash —mostly
domiciled in the United States.
The highest development of art has
always occurred in countries that were old
and rich. New and poor communities can-
not afford to foster art. New and rich
countries, such as that marvellously fertile
territory that lies between Canada and
Mexico, commercialise what art they have
to such an extent that facile imitators
flourish while creative genius is stifled.
Especially is this the case in the matter ot.
musical composition. The whole American
continent, in its 300 years or so of white
colonisation, has produced only four or five
composers of outstanding genius an
originality—Edward MacDowell, Gole-
ridge-Taylor, Stephen Foster and John
Philip Sousa are the only ones whose names
readily suggest themselves. Coleridge-
Taylor was a pure-blooded negro; roster
got his inspiration from nigger sources;
MacDowell, pupil of the incomparable Gar-
reno, was strongly attracted by the Ethiopian
musical idiom, and Sousa came undei the
same influence. A song-composer named
Lieurance has effectively exploited some of
the melodic themes of the Red Indians,
and Anton Dvorak, a Bohemian exiled for
a while in New York, found inspiration for
his “New World” Symphony in Uncle
Sam’s domain. But there the tally ends.
It is not very impressive for a country
which manufactures and publishes more
music than all the rest of the world put
together, but it embodies practically all
that has been done in America that was
worth while, musically speaking.
Yet Australia and most other English-
speaking countries are flooded with Ameri-
can syncopations so trivial and artistically
negligible that even the most hardened
devotee of jazz gets tired of the best of
them after the second hearing. Many
means of combating this debasement ot
musical taste have been suggested but
there seems to be a sort of Gresham s
law in music as in money, under which the
bad drives out the good. But the Devils
weapons can usually be used to beat the
Devil. We can’t send a Melba or a Percy
Grainger into every school in the country
to show the difference between musical gold
and dross, but we can put Australian-made
plaver-pianos or gramophones into those
institutions and give 15 minutes of good
music every day. It is worth doing. Music
is a part of life, mid we can’t have all that
part taken up with balderdash.


Easy Starting For Motorists
SINGLE SHELL OIL is specially prepared to meet modern
motoring conditions. Flows freely in cold weather and gives
perfect lubrication under the most arduous running conditions.
For easy Winter starting use Single Shell Oil.
SINGLE SHELL OIL is recommended for the following Cars
during Winter months —
DFGFGHGJHGJH
Single Shell Oil
for Winter Motoring
51053
POLITICAL
POINTS
Bricks in abundance have been thrown at
the Scullidores for being much more ready
to add to taxation than to save on expendi-
ture ; and in this respect their failings are
many and glaring. But it should be borne
in mind that locally-collected taxes and local
expenditure are only paper transactions, and
have little or no connection with' the position
abroad. Whoever urges that that should be
alleviated by local economies is talking
through his hat.
On June 30 one of Australia’s short-dated
accommodation bills for £5,000,000 fell due
in London; the Commonwealth Bank found
the money to meet it. Suspended animation
followed for a fortnight, and then a loan
with which to repay the bank was raised for
six months. It is a hand-to-mouth business,
but the special emissary of the Bank of
England arrived in Sydney at the week-end,
with good tidings, it is believed, in his
carpet-bag.
Westralia is getting a lot of fun out of
the rising against the eastern octopus. The
general commanding is an Englishman who
sold his Perth newspaper to an Adelaide
concern; his chief of staff is a Scot, who,
as a director of Westralia’s one locally-con-
trolled bank, was a party to its absorption
by the Bank of N. S. Wales. Two of their
most bellicose officers are a Jew and a
Syrian.
Two of the Government hotels at Can-
berra are closed, and the others aren’t doing
much. About half the business premises are
an aching void. The railway, which paid
its way for a while, is now losing £lOOO
per mile per annum. When Scullin goes
on his trip to England and Parliament closes,
the silence of the City That Nobody Wants
will be profound.
Under N.S.W.’s reformed system of book-
keeping the state of the finances is no longer
made known once a month. Rather it is
published once in a blue moon. The shortage
at June 30 was £1,394,019 (certain) on
general business, and £3,000,000 (with a
haze of doubt still over it) on the railways
and tramways: total £4,394,019. It is the
saddest on record.
The selling value of greasy wool having
fallen from 2s. 3d. per pound in 1924-25 to
10|d. per pound, Arbitration Judge Deth-
ridge has ordered a reduction of shearers’
wages. It is quite a small one compared with
the reduction that the grazier has experi-
enced, but all the same a strike was promptly
talked of. His Honor took the circumstances
of. the industry into consideration, there
being nothing else to consider except perhaps
the color of the sheep, and the old Act
instructed him to do so. Attorney-General
Brennan got this instruction removed from
his new bill as “obnoxious and unneces-
sary,” so if the measure had passed in time
the Judge might have let the old rates stand.
Naturally the missed chance is a grievance.
“After all, the tax on the foreign film millionaires
turns out to be the ordinary income tax payable by
companies, but calculated so far as the film cos. are
concerned on a mere 30 per cent, of their receipts,
or about £20,000 per annum altogether.”
HORNSWOGGLESTEIN: “Baby, I knoo these
Labor guys wouldn’t turn dahg on us.”
There is to be a lively discussion in Vic.
Assembly on the decision of the Hogans not
to renew the appointment of Blarney as
Chief Commissioner of Police, but to adver-
tise the job at £1250 a year and let him
apply if he likes. Blarney, whose term will
be up on August 31, now draws £1750, in-
eluding an allowance of £250 for rent. He
has moulded a new force since the 1923
strike, and a change of control when things
are going smoothly would very probably be
for the worse.
It was Lukin’s turn a while ago, and
Dethridge is getting it now. A cry has
gone up for a select committee “to recom-
mend” his removal from the Bench on the
ground that he is “temperamentally un-
fitted” for arbitration work. The people
raising it are the same who are demanding
“British fair play” for Theodore.
N.S.VV. Minister Weaver is equipping
prospectors with tools and a living allow-
ance of £1 per man per week, to be refunded
if they strike affluence. The men go out in
parties, with a tent for each pair and all
necessary sundries; 900 are already on the
hoof, and many more are expected. They
may not recover much; but even if they
average only five shillings of saleable metal
Nothing like setting a personal example.
a week they will be a far better investment
than the thousands of men who are being
paid to shift sand at Maroubra and there-
abouts. They are not helping us out of our
greatest difficulty in the smallest degree.
The Federal reduction of shearing rates
was followed by a cut of ss. a week in the
Queensland basic wage, making it £4. Obvi-
ously if the matter were referred to these
Arbitration Judges there would be a drastic
lowering of Federal political and civil-
service salaries. But Federal Labor still
refuses to take a penny off these boom-time
screws, although it is “rationing” warrant-
officers who got £5 a week, and although
the Shepherds and Deanes of .Canberra are
exempt from the two State income taxes
(ordinary and unemployment) now imposed
in N. S. Wales and Victoria and presently
to be payable in Queensland.
N.S.W. Labor and Hughes’s “Australian
party” are making great efforts to beat the
Nationalists in the Dane Cove by-election.
The Trades Hall case is that the financial
stringency has been faked by Bavin and
Stevens, and that a Labor Government will
restore the 44-hour week and boom rates of
pay for politicians and civil servants and
get all the money it wants (for the St.
Leonards-Eastwood railway, among other
things) by borrowing and “taxing the
wealthy companies.” Lane Cove doesn’t
look the sort of constituency to swallow this
rubbish.
The proposed building of a lighthouse
steamer at Cockatoo Dock, Sydney, led to a
shindy in the House of Reps. The estimated
price is £120,000, and it is alleged, probably
with truth, that the work can be done in
England for £70,000; but the Government
has the £120,000 in Australia, or can find it,
while it hasn’t the £70,000 in England. In
fact, it is £20.000,000 short of the £70,000.
There are doubts whether the new vessel
couldn’t wait a while, the old one being
still alive, but the building of it will supply
some employment here (not in England),
and perhaps save as much relief expenditure
as will cover the difference.
It used to be said in Adelaide that a
kindhearted Labor politician motored to the
Yatala prison every week or so to got some
inmate out. Yatala has certainly acquired
a reputation for queer happenings, and this
was added to on Friday, when four long-
sentence men overpowered the guard and
made off in a car which had thoughtfully
been left in a near-by quarry, stocked with
d’sguises and firearms. After a hot pursuit,
during which great courage was exhibited
by constables, and civilians, though the shoot-
ing could have been better, the escapees were
rounded up, two being killed and the others
captured. It is now declared that Yatala
is grossly understaffed. To save on defence
and police and prisons is the Australian
politician's great idea of economy.
An unusual number of people are trying to
leave Australia without first providing their
share of the public spendiugs. A steamer
which recently reached Colombo carried with
it from Fremantle a concealed mother and
two well-grown daughters, another hidden
mother and three children, also four men.
Speaking of exits, the Friday exodus from
Canberra at the end of last week included
five Ministers, two Assistant Ministers, the
Vice-President of the Executive Council and
private members in general. They also
travelled free, and they wouldn’t be going
back to Canberra if their salaries didn’t
depend on it.
The Senate’s resolve to hang up the Cen-
tral Reserve Bank for consideration was a
set-back to the Ministry, but no one was as
angry as he tried to appear. The only
money that a new institution can have must
be taken from the Commonwealth Bank and
the joint-stock banks, and they have less to
plant there, bar notes and bills, than they
have had for a long time; the stock of coin
and bullion dropped by seven millions
between December and March, and it has
been dropping further since then. Then the
reserve bank is to be under political control,
which excites no enthusiasm outside the
cranks and worse who howl for “the nation-
alisation of credit” — i.c., control of bank
funds by the cranks and worse.
Opposition-leader Latham moved that the
Scullin budget should be reduced by fl, as a
sign that it should really be reduced by
four millions. The economies mentioned in-
clude abolition of the grant to the States for
roads and a restriction of the baby bonus
to necessitous cases. Civil-service savings
might do the rest, or most of it. The
Bulletin would cheer Latham much more
heartily if it could forget that it was
Latham’s Government which raised the
roads grant from £750,000 to £2,000,000
and undertook to continue it for 10 years.
Thereby .it started the deficit which it
left to its successors and brought a lot
of men, who might have been otherwise
employed, into the road-making business—
gave them a sort of vested interest, in fact.
The evil that slapdash financiers do cannot
be scotched in a moment, and Latham, Page
and Pearce should be the last to growl if
Scullin refuses to abandon the Common-
wealth’s derelict pick-and-shovellers on the
State doorsteps.
Minister Fenton is just back from
London, where he stayed for months; and
Minister Brennan is on his way there now;
and Minister Moloney and the Prime Minis-
ter expect to be there in September. Yet
the Government has sent Coleman, M.H.R.,
to Australia House, at £3 3s. a day plus
his Parliamentary salary and fares both
ways, to _ examine the staff as to what it
does. for its collective salary and write the
inevitable report. It is a disgraceful waste
of public money, and what makes it look
worse is that Coleman is himself being re-
ported on by a royal commissioner. Certainly
the charge against him seems to be based on
nothing more substantial than what a mys-
terious unknown said to the excitable
Roland Green, but the Australia House
staff is not to be expected to know that.
The inquiry in which Coleman and Green
are concerned arose out of the old broad-
casting cos.’ claim for compensation against
the Commonwealth. Percy Deane, secretary
of the Home Affairs Department, confided to
“Mr. Percy Deane said he had written thousands
of letters on behalf of politicians and others who
wanted passes to the theatre.”
TAXPAYER: “Is that what we keep these
jokers for?”
the Commissioner that he had given Green a
letter of introduction, which was good for
free passes to J. C. VVilliamson shows, to an
employee of the Taits, who were interested in
one of the broadcasting concerns; adding that
he had written thousands of such letters for
members of Parliament and others, and that
Stanley Bruce accepted them along with the
common herd, “but always wanted boxes.” In
the House of Reps, next day Gregory hotly
denied that the majority of the present
members were theatre- deadheads, and Scullin,
like the gentleman he is, said he didn’t
believe the imputation against his predecessor.
Bruce was instrumental in having certain
curious and very costly sugar transactions
investigated in 1923. Evidently Deane hasn’t
forgotten it.
“G.A.8.”: It costs £200,000 a year to
run the N.S.W. Child Endowment Depart-
ment, and the rule is to give plenty of bustle
and fuss for the money. All the same, a
man at Eccleston (N.S.W.) can’t under-
stand why the department is worrying him
BARNACLE: “The Tape and Sealing-wax
Department insists on knowing what
you got for them.”
about the price he charged another resident
for two roosters. A bachelor and employing
no labor, he was unfamiliar with the Child
Endowment business, and it didn’t seem to
matter a dump whether he got 15 bob or 50
for the two he-fowls. He put the letter away
and forgot all about it. Not so the depart-
ment. A few weeks later came a registered
letter repeating the demand for information
and threatening severe penalties if it were
further ignored. The fowl-seller is still won-
dering what connection there is between Child
Endowment and the price of male chooks.
Scullin expects to get £6,238,000 of excise
revenue from beer this year, while “ales,
spirits and beverages” are to furnish another
£1,500,000 in customs duties. It is a tre-
mendous burden on the beer-drinker, and it
would be much fairer to lighten it and
clap a 10 p.c. tax on tea. A lot of people
compound for other sins by denouncing beer,
but it may be doubted whether it causes
more domestic unhappiness than tea, drunk
strong with meat meals in the queer Aus-
tralian fashion. Also it would be much
more sensible to drop the idea of extorting
another £850,000 from the income-taxpayer
and reduce the cost of the Commonwealth
establishment by that amount. It is bad
business to give the feeling that the Govern-
ment will reap where the people sow; and
that is what these Federal and State income
taxes, which are for ever being added to,
are doing.
Vic. Nationalism, which has been losing
at ever/ State election since 1921, is making
a feeble attempt to shake itself up. Mainly
owing to the exertions of the women’s
league the group still has some influence in
the Assembly electorates of Hawthorn,
Toorak, Kew, Nunawading, Boroondara and
Brighton; but 18 of the 26 metropolitan
members are Labor and two Independents;
and the 39 country seats are held by 12
Laborites, 11 Nats., 11 Cockies, 4 Rural
Progs, and an Independent. While it is
probable that the Nats, will continue to
hang on to six city constituencies, their hopes
in the country are small.
Archdale Parkhill, M.H.R., thundering
against the proposal to have a lighthouse ship
built here for £120,000 instead of buying it
in England for £70,000 asserted "that* not
a single member of this House would act in
this manner if it was a question of spending
his own money.” Supposing Parkin’! was
the Government, which is a fearsome specula-
tion, and wanted to buy a £70,000 ship in
England, he would first have to get 70,000
sovereigns from the banks, and ship it across.
Failing this he would have to persuade
people in England to lend him £70,000 and to
take his word for payment of principal and
interest in gold. This is no longer being
done. Therefore Parkhill, in his private
capacity and not as the Government, would
probably decide to do without the ship, and
say that neither the' care of lighthouses nor
the finding of a job for the unemployed was
any of his business. But the Government
can’t say that, nor could Parkhill if lie was
the Government.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Shep”: One noticeable feature of any
gathering of Diggers nowadays is the sparse-
ness of top-storey growth. If they aren t
unblushingly exhibiting bald patches, they re
camouflaging them with what hair is sti
left. My barber, to whom I mentioned the
circumstance (lie said he had noticed it
himself), suggested that tin hats, unventi-
•latcd and too heavy, started the Wight. I
know three brothers who each had thick
curly hair before the war. The two who didn t
risk tin hats still have it, but there s not
enough on the other’s roof to stop it from
sunburning. *
“Bildad”: The untidiness of the calendar
is the subject of a book published m Cali-
fornia and circulated here by the Religious
Liberty Department of the Australasian
Union Conference of Seventh Day Adventists,
Wahroonga (N.S.W.)”—it is to be hoped
that Wahroonga can hold an article of Lie
size without overcrowding. The 12 months
are of uneven dimensions, and if we had
13 months the same would happen. Ihe
moon which lasts for 29 days and a long
decimal, refuses to fit properly into any kind
of a year. The week of seven days can t be
fixed so that an even and regular number or
weeks will go into a month or a year, and
no regular and reliable number of days will
dc so either. This is partly because there is
an odd fraction of a day attached to the
year, and the fraction is so odd that it can t
be packed into any system without the tail
sticking out. A festival or birthday is always
happening on the wrong day of the week,
like Christmas, or the wrong day of the
month like Good Friday, or on the wrong day
of the moon, like both of them. A certain
attempt at regularity might be made by
dividing the year into five months of < 3 days
CLASSIFIED.
“May I kiss you — dear?”
“Oh, my hat, another amateur!”
apiece, or 73 months of five days each, and
abolishing weeks, and doing without months
and moons, but leap year would remain as a
disturbing factor. All this leads up to the
assurance that Saturday is, and always has
been the real Sabbath, but how it leads up
is none too clear. One difficulty among
many is that the sun, which helps to define
a day, wasn’t created till the fourth day,
and there is no mention of the week or the.
month being created at alb
“Bintang”: Matthews performed a remark-
able feat in struggling out of the Burmese
jungle after he and Hook crashed there. As
k rule, the white man is incapable of
sustaining life in a tropical wilderness with-
out the amenities of civilisation, though food
of a sort may be all round him. Animal
life is mysteriously absent from the .path of
a blundering Caucasian and what fruits
there are hang anything from 80 feet aDove.
Leeches, which were Matthews’s chief trouble,
ai?e unavoidable. They seem to have adapted
themselves especially to feed :
infrequent as those may be. 'ariety
lies in wait attached to leaves about t o
level of the neck; another favors the ground
position. Boots, puttees and leggings are
useless —the fasting leech is able to s P
through the tiniest interstice, though once
inside he will grow to the size of a P
After securing myself in every possible way
I have swept a couple of dozen off each
foot after a journey. The loss of blood may
eventually be fatal, and, too rougnly removed,
fhc Sedh leaves a festering wound equal J
rlan serous. It is an uncanny sight to see
the "’blind creatures rear themselves up on
end and swing themselves m droves in
direction of their approaching breakfast.
« Yvon” • When an old Maori of high tribal
rank makes a prophecy he islistened to with
respect. It may be coincidence, but m a-
surprising number of such cases
the prediction has been fulfilled
to the letter. Here’s an instance,
and a very recent one. two
years ago a royal commission
was investigating land titles
with a view to repairing some 01.
the injustice done to the Man* l
race by unprincipled adven-
turers in the early days The
Commission found _ that tne
Atiawas of Taranaki had been
defrauded, and recommended an
annual grant to the tribe of
£5OOO as a solatium. Where-
upon uprose an elder ot tue
tribe, Rangi Watene, who called
the grant blood-money, since the
tribe had fought in defence of
its rights and many of its war-
riors were slain by the pakehas.
Six of the leading members ot
the tribe would die inside a tort-
night, he said, if the money was
accepted. And so it cajne to
pass. Watene himself died on
the heels of his prophecy, lhe
deaths he predicted began on
June 21 last with Taieki, a well-
known Atiawa chief. Within 14
days Hoani, another chief;
Maui Pomare, who was of the
blood royal; Ruhia (a woman of
high degree) ; Katherine Keenan,
a grand-niece of Te Raupahara,
that great warrior chief and a
close relation of Pomare; and
Parieri, a female descendant of
the leading Atiawa family, had
all passed away.
“T O ” • It takes a lot to defeat the N.Q.
digger. One old bird who scratches tin on
the Herberton lost his set of false teeth and
made himself another, washing tin oxide from
the alluvial and smelting it to supply the
metal in the form he wanted. And the tin
fangs paid him better than he knew. When-
ever he gets short of funds he puts them
ir with the publican, who proudly exhibits
them to all and sundry—Premier Moore
examined them when he visited Herberton.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: The fact that Bali, in the
Dutch East Indies, has been substituted tor
Melbourne in the itinerary of the next
massed tour of Americans in the Alalolo is
causing much heartburning on the banks ot
the Yarra. During the last visit they were
offered much facetious criticism, many
speeches about our great natural resources,
and trips to bacon factories. Bali offers
them a compact area S ' of U fanistic
Unusual customs like widow-burn-
- P » and one 0 f the world’s most
m '“fiS Tn'MelbourueTey eoukl
jtmiizmg v iwi u exactly copied
‘ o “°lSScago defied
to out-of-date American pictures, suburbs
to out imitati(ms of CaUfornian bunga-
lows b am shops called delicatessen, and tea-
]loUSeS called cafeterias. They can drive
. lb out in American motor-cars and attend
dance pnlays of l ' 'oSlS*
sfi ““'
1 ZSTjZ
Whenever a raid by a wife and the usual
witnesses is made on premises where the
husband is forgetting—or trying to forget
—the marriage bond, the indignant lady looks
for masculine clothing, preferab y pants, and
if she can carry away an identifiable pan-
triumph sings in her soul. But mistakes are
liable to happen. One happened in Darlmg-
hurst recently. The wifely marauder fleeing
with her treasure trove of trousers along
the street was overhauled by an angry man,
a complete stranger, who demanded the
return of his pants. She refused to give
them up. saving they belong, d to her husband
(the beast!), and in a fight for possession
they were torn to pieces. The lady was haled
to court and ordered to pay damages for the
destruction of a fellow-citizen’s trousers,
besides receiving a lecture about her narrow
escape from a charge of theft. It is awkward
for a man to be deprived of his pants,
especially if they are liis only pair, and the
Law very properly takes a stern view of it.
* * * *
“Cran” : The Duke of Edinburgh, immor-
talised for Sydney by the new tablet at Glon-
AGREED.
ARTIST: “I paint a picture like this in half a day and think nothing of it.”
CRITIC: “I don’t think very much of it, either.”
tarf was not shot at in Maoriland, but is
remembered there for a less exciting reason.
When leaving Government House at Auck-
land he distributed jewellery among members
of the staff. This was praised as truly ducal
until the Government began to get the bills.
The frugal country, after much acrimonious
discussion, paid up, but the Duke has come
down to posterity as the man who gave
presents and expected other people to pay
for them.
« * * *
“Gilbert de Sleuth” : A wife her husband’s
co-re. (B. 25/6/’3O) ? Well, it nearly hap-
pened once, to my knowledge. Mr. and Mrs.
McScotty had been married for 10 years,
and were childless. A specialist blamed the
lady, and, being devoted to her lord, who
longed for a family,
she decided to set him
free and be “the other
person” herself. Put-
ting a blonde wig over
her dark shingle, and
otherwise making up
so that her mother
wouldn’t have known
her, the resolute woman
carried him off for a
week-end at a notorious
seaside pub. Revisit-
ing the place undis-
guised, she discovered
Me Scotty’s perfidy,
and placed the matter
in a lawyer’s hands,
leaving then to go back
to her people north
of Tweed. McScotty
was now a sorely
worried man, but he
didn’t enter a defence
to the suit set down
for hearing. Next old
Mother Nature took a
hand. To the base
deceiver came a cable,
“Stop proceedings, re-
turning immediately.”
McScotty met the
boat at Fremantle,
and his bewilderment
changed to pride, for
a child was on the
way. It wa<s a girl, who has McScotty’s eyes
and nose and sandy hair; and there is a
McScotty boy now who resembles his
mother.
“C.Q.” : A news item which does not
seem to have got into the Australian papers—
perhaps Mr. Forde had it censored —concerns
(KJO skeletons unearthed at Moundsville,
Alabama (U.S.A.), and believed to be 10,000
vearff old. All the women had their mouths
open and all the men had theirs shut.
“Avon” : Conan Doyle’s interest in spirit-
ism did not arise, as is generally supposed,
through an intense desire to communicate
with his dead soldier son. When in Christ-
church (M.L.) he was induced to investigate
the case of Darkle, a blind spaniel owned
bv Mrs. Mac Gibbon of that city. By barks it
answered all sorts of arithmetical and even
mathematical questions. Doyle decided that
the creature was under spirit control, and
told its owner that his first experience of the
occult was when, dozing in his study before
a fire on a winter’s night, he had a vivid
dream in which his terrier was run over by
a train. Waking, he found the dog missing.
It had been killed exactly as he had. dreamed’
and at precisely the time of the dream.
4. St. Kilda (Vic.) resident
played a grim jest on his friends On t eir
behalf an! his he bought a ticket: m Ta£ s
under the title of “The Cyanide Sy .
A few days later he poisoned himsell w
the compound named. # *
“Harold Hardupp”: A lunch-hour anti-
tax meeting attracted among others, an^ndi
vidual who did not look as it he
interest in the incidence ( of ta , xa^ ’'’’and
frequently ejaculated Ear. Er.
planned robustly. “Gam! said the man
next to him ; “what are you worrym abou ;
the new taxes for? They don t it jwu.
“Don’t they?” replied the enthusiast. lhcy
makes the Wokes P a feller might nip button
up their pockets. Got fourpence for a feed.'
“Parly” • The Court of Criminal Appeal
at Adelaide has disposed # of a remal^} c
case which recalls the affair of Adolph Bee •
Three years a*go a Finn named Hakulmei
was found guilty of robbery under arms and
sentenced to seven years’ imprisonment, Two
years later another immigrant named Allen,
who had pleaded guilty to a number of
offences of the Wild West type, joined Haku-
linen in prison, and one day, according to
history lie heard Hakulinen protesting his
innocence. Allen made some inquiries and
discovered that he himself had committed the
crime imputed to the Finn. In the Fount
of Criminal Appeal, however, he found the
Crown sceptical and came through a severe
cross-examination with some parts ot his
narrative battered. Allen and Hakulinen
then put on caps with long peaks, and tied
handkerchiefs over their noses and the lower
part of their faces until they looked like
members of the Ivu-Klux Klan. The three
persons who had been held up were separa-
tely brought into court. Two of them
immediately and positively identified Haku-
linen a*s the robber. The Court scratched
its wig and reserved judgment. The reserved
-judgment was that the only safe thing to
do was to quash the conviction, but the
Court said it did not entirely believe Allen
and could not hold that Hakulinen had be en
proved innocent. So when Hakulinen
stepped out of the dock he was immediately
picked up on a deportation order tor a
return to Finland. An application to a
Judge for a writ of habeas corpus was
refused, so it looks as though Hakulinen wili
be returned to the bosom of bis family with-
out being allowed to wait to prosecute s>
claim for compensation which' he seems to
think he has.
* * * - : -
“Runa”: One of the bronze medallions
brought out by Captain Cook and presented
to Maori chiefs has been found m M.L. Un
one side is the head of George 111., King ot
Great Britain, France and Ireland ; on the
other, a representation of the two ships Reso-
lution and Adventure, ‘Sailed from England
1772” The Turnbull Library has the Cook
medallion in gold, as well as a bronze one.
* * *
“Spring Onions”: Melbourne “Herald”
started a campaign in the interests of weight-
reduction, prescribing a regimen which, while
tasty, was eminently calculated to achieve
the result required. It was generally sup-
posed that the journal’s clear-sighted aim
was to diminish the number of fat citizens
climbing in and out of expensive limousines
in the city streets, a spectacle likely to dis-
turb the philosophic resignation of the starv-
ing unemployed. The “Herald has now
decided that this policy was wrong or has
o-one too far. It has received definite assui-
ance” from medical authorities that nothing
predisposes to nervousness so much as msum-
cient food, and few things allay emotional in-
stability so satisfactorily as an abundant, wel -
balanced diet.” Such a diet, covering a whole
week, it sets itself out to describe One
tvpical meal: “Dinner: Average helping loast
lamb, with one tablespoon jelly, two heaped
tablespoons marrow with cream sauce, peas
and carrots, one tablespoon each; salad or
lettuce with oil dressing (two tablespoons),
two hot French rolls with one tablespoon
butter, chocolate custard with one table;
spoon whipped cream one glass of milk.
There is also frequent mention of halt a
glass of orange-juice, and oranges can be
bought at threepence apiece from mmest an>
fruiterer. On the day that the “Herald
opened its campaign an unemployed woman
fainted in Bourke-street through lack ot
food thus convincingly demonstrating the
t?uth of the journal’s initial headline—
“UNWlSE TO BE TOO THIN.
THE OLD ROAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oil, the Road, the bonnie Old Road,
Where the bracken grows sae fair,
And the brown burn rins beside it,
As it winds to Abercaire!
There’s not a mossy milestane
I dinna ken by name,
Nor a wee bird in the hedgerow
That doesna ca’ me liame!
I’ve been by mony a new road
In mony a far countrie,
Where the snaw gleams on the mountains
And the sun shines on the sea. _
But, though cauld blaws the north wind,
And the rowan-trees go bare,
I wad fain be on the Old Road
That winds to Abercaire .
Oh! the bonnie, bonnie Old Road,
Where I wandered with my dear,
When the bees were in the heather,
And the gloamin’ saft and clear!
The blithe song o’ the brown burn
I shall never hear it mair,
Till my wraith walks down the Old Road
That leads to Abercaire!
S.A.
CHARLES HENRY SOUTER.


“Penficld”: The most surprising traveller
by the Niagara, which arrived from Van-
couver last week-end, was an American who
said that he had come to Australia because
“it gives me the joes to listen to the wails
back home,” “home” being one of the East-
Central States. The idea of escaping to
Australia to get away from talk of depres-
sion sounds humorous on this side of the
Pacific; still, as far as he’s gone, he says,
he doesn’t think he’s made a mistake. “You
folks never really tasted a boom,” he de-
clares ; “and just when we got the nice
feeling that to-morrow or maybe the next
day _ there wouldn’t be scarce anything but
millionaires in the country—crack she comes,
and the latest sta-tistics show there’s 43
per cent, of union members unemployed in
the building trade and well over 22 per cent,
in all trades. Maybe you got worse figures,
but they wouldn’t seem half so bad if we
didn’t wake up to ’em from a dream in
which we slept on nothing less than gold
beds, diamond-studded.”
* * * *
“Fingal”: Many of Coolgardie’s early pubs
stood on street corners, with swing-doors
opening into the bar from either thorough-
fare. A denouement arising therefrom which
was always recounted appreciatively in the
Old Camp concerned a couple of lucky pros-
pectors—who may or may not have been
countrymen of Harry Lauder. They had just
received a few thousands apiece as their
share of the purchase price of that marvel-
lously rich surface show the Londonderry,
and the world may well have looked good to
THE HINT.
THE SUCCESSFUL T HICKHEAD: “Yes, success depends on the man
himself. All men are born equal.”
THE UNSUCCESSFUL SCHEMER: “Maybe, but some are equal to
more than others.”
them. For two solid hours they walked up
and down outside the pub discussing various
topics while each waited for the other to
shout. At last the long strain of hope
deferred proved too much for either, and they
finally ba-de one another a gloomy good
night on_ the corner and separated, their
camps lying in different directions. Each
of the canny souls walked 20 yards or so
and then decided to turn back for a Jimmy
Woodser. So it fell that they opened the
swing-doors simultaneously and faced each
other, each m&n’s face a study in conflict-
ing emotions as he recognised his vis-a-vis •'
* * * *
“Sambal”; The Colonial Office has put the
finishing touches on a scheme whereby
graduates of Dominion universities may
enter its service. Each Australian State will
have its selection committee, and the final
choice will be made by a Federal body. With
all its faults, the C.O. is a better crowd to
work for than the Commonwealth Govern-
ment, for which so many capable Australians
wear their souls out in Papua and New
Guinea. The pay is good, and for the most
part politicians are not allowed to interfere,
though the bureaucracy of the C.O. itself is
sometimes a handicap. Promotion is fairly
rapid, many of the posts being in countries
where malaria takes full toll, and there are,
of course, pension rights. As one who has
seen something of both systems I would
say to the youngster seeking adventure of
this sort, “Go to the C.O. rather than to the
Australian island services.”
* * * *
“Sol M.”: A peculiarly nasty crowd of
degenerates described as “The Wreckers” has
become too well known in some Sydney
suburbs. It breaks in not so much to steal
as to smash and destroy and defile, and it
isn’t particular how it defiles or what. A
working-girl’s clothes suit it as well as any-
thing else, her trousseau especially. So
far the law hasn't even captured one
Wrecker, and let him out on nominal bail,
and then ordered him to come up for sen-
tence if he is found Wrecking again inside
12 months.
* * * *
“L.A.S.”: I have tried a scheme of post-
ing to likely buyers on approval, copies of my
booklet of 32 jingles; price, a bob. Thirty
copies went to Federal po iticians. Eight of
them sent back nice letters and the price;
the rest clung to the booklets and the enclosed
return stamps as well.
* * * *
“Stanmore”: The Chinese cook aboard the
Shanghai-bound steamer had expired two
days previous to reaching the Cldn '«-> coast.
and his countrymen
had prepared the
body for burial.
Pat O’Regan, the
first mate, chanc-
ing to stroll up as
they were in the
act of closing the
lid of the box,
noticed three shil-
lings inside. Pat
went to the purser,
who had been in
China for many
years, and asked
him if he could ex-
plain it. “That's
their custom,” said
the purser. “They
believe that before
they can enter
Heaven they must
cross three bridges,
and at each bridge
they are required
to produce a
decent-sized silver
c o i n.” “Well,”
commented Pat as
he turned away,
“Oi know one
Chink that won’t
get across if he can’t show a season ticket!”
* * * *
“A.F.D.”: One of the Cobb and Co. adver-
tisements may still be seen at the old Carriers’
Arms Hotel, Bourke, where an inscription
on the wall facing the main street announces
that the pub is a booking office for Cobb’s
Hunger ford coaches. Living at the same
hostelry is Bill Oldfield, well past his 80th
milestone, who for many years after Cobb
and Co. went out of business carried on the
coaching service. Bill’s father kept the
Black Horse, the oldest hotel in Richmond,
in the days when coaches were more numer-
ous than railway carriages, and there, as
a youngster, he learned the old-time lore
of the road.
* * * *
“Ferny”; Maoriland has its fair share of
original philosophers, but no other goes to
the lengths of F. G.
Dalziell, of Welling-
ton, erstwhile law-
partner of John
Findlay and a man
of culture and sub-
stance, who buys
half-pages of adver-
tising space in news-
papers so that he
may promulgate his
views. Years ago he
presented a petition
to the M.L. Parlia-
ment urging the es-
tablishment of a com-
mission to investi-
gate the extent of
human knowledge
concerning the laws
of existence with a
view to applying
those laws to the
fashioning of rational
legislation. In a re-
cent advertisement he
pleads that the world
should not be con-
sidered, humanly, as
a mart of trade, but
as a sort of family
picnic, with young
and old all playing
the parts they are
best qualified to play,
and all having an en-
joyable time. It’s a
large, breezy idea,
and it’s doubtful if
the world is wide enough to hold it, but
Dalziell keeps pegging away.
* * * *
. Ex-Tas.”: The little tin-mining town of
Pioneer (Tas.) had a Chinese who ran a
motor-truck. His knowledge of English was
not extensive, but he was sound on book-
keeping—most Chinese are. This is how he
made out a bill for some jobs he did for me :
“5 goes, 5 comes, at 2s. a went, 10s.”
* * * *
“Quiz” : Someone commenting in The Bul-
letin on the seizure by Brisbane Custohis
officers of a mixed lot of liquors and lingerie
remarked that it was a good cocktail party
spoilt. How would he classify the latest
heartless grab, also made in Brisbane? The
unclaimed swag, all in one parcel, contained
650 cigarettes, three botttles of liqueurs, one
diamond ring, four pearl necklaces and a
dozen packets of toilet powder.
* * * *
“Cobble”: I went to see Madame Moloney
about the Budget. The seeress had just been
paid for a long week’s washing amd mang-
ling ; had cooked a dish of tripe and onions,
and had, I have reason to suspect, supple-
mented the menu with stout. She was in
good form. I gazed into the crystal. “Pliwat
see ye there?” she demanded magisterially.
Nine hundred and forty-seven black spots
and a Datch of blue,” said I, for my liver is
not what it used to be. She nodded
importantly. “Thim black wans is burglars,
seekin’ for pethrol an’ beer,” she said deter-
minedly, “an’ if yer oiesight was better ye’d
see that patch of blue ye speak av is made
up, so it is, av a million little blue scraps
»v paper, each wid a bailiff houldin’ on to it,
bad cess to him!” Here she gazed into the
crystal herself with a tripe-and-stouty ex-
pression. “They run together,” she said after
a space. “Thim little bits a«v blue run
together, an’ maybe ye were roight. ’Twas
perhaps a bit of Hiven ye saw, for there is
no bailiff big enough to break into this great
large Continent of Austhralia to evict all
the people. Foiv e shillings, please.”
* * * #
“Maltworm”: These are unhappy days for
publicans, even in Brisbane, where the gamb-
ling spirit fostered by the late Government has
not been check d by the new. Every BiDbane
hotel has its “fruit” machine, in which you
insert a disc —to be bought at the bar coun-
ter —hoping to get a dividend, also in discs,
HE’D HAD A FAMILY HIMSELF.
OWNER OF BABY CAR: "She's only six months old, so there shouldn’t be anything
wrong with her.”
OWNER OF LIMOUSINE: “Ah, six months! Have you looked to see if she’s cutting
her teeth?”
which are good for drinks. After gloomy
speculations on the new taxes, one Bung
opened his machine, and found that 90 per
cent, of the day’s discs were forgeries, for
which he had been exchanging perfectly
genuine beer. The overwrought man fainted.
* * * *
“Bashi-Bazouk” : “M.G.S.’s” remarks anent
the foolish censorship of letters to Diggers
(B. 2/7/’3O) remind me that prisoners of
war saw the Censor’s handiwork at its silliest.
Letters from grief-stricken parents to pris-
oners asking if by chance their missing son
had been seen or heard of in captivity invari-
ably. had all reference to battalion or other
unit identification deleted. The result was
that any slender hope of information was
considerably lessened, although the conscien-
tious dug-outs on the home front no doubt
felt they were keeping valuable intelligence
from the enemy. And this, too, of Gallipoli
prisoners after the campaign had become a
memory and what remained of the units who
served on the Peninsula had moved on to
France.
* * * *
“Bohong”: The shutting down of a number
of the dredges In Malaya will add consider-
ably to the worries of police
inspectors. The out-of-woxdc
mining coolie very frequently
becomes a gang robber. Imckily
the breed isn’t blest with much
intelligence. During the slump
of 1022 the country was in-
fested by gangs of bandits
who on occasion held up whole
villages to fansom. A planter
was going home from the
Seremban Club when he was
stopped by three men, who de
manded money. As he had no
cash with him they suggested
that he should write a cheque.
He did so, and next morning a
very crestfallen trio were
grabbed by the police when the
cheque was presented. On
another occasion the manager
of a large dredging concern
received a threat that his mine
was to be raided on pay-day.
H’e made arrangements for
police protection and there was
no raid. Next morning the
manager received an indignant
letter stating that the gang had
spent 300 dollars preparing for
the raid, and as they had been
unable to carry on owing to
the presence of the police, they
demanded that he send theii"
out-of-pocket expenses imme-
diately to an address in Ipoh.
A few minutes’ telephoning
resulted in the police visiting
that address, and as a result
the labor force at the Taiping
gaol was augmented by 10
brawny individuals whose belief
in the Tuan’s sense of fair
play had been rudely shattered.
& & &
“The Ghoul”: A deputation of builders
who waited upon a Vic. Minister had for
chief spokesman a frank and modest soul.
“I’m not much good at talking,” he began;
“my proper place I know is on the scaffold.”
* * * *
“Wang”: Mr. Moses Blumstein, standing
at the door of his second-hand shop, watched
the approach of the well-sozzled gent, with
a speculative eye. The soused one pu led
up in front of the shop, and stood peering
into the window. “You want somedings?”
inquired Moses affably. “Yesh,” replied the
other, “I wanner knife —big (hie) sharp
knife.” “I haf that,” replied Moses, “come
inside/’ Tlie other lurched after him into the
shop, and Moses hastily placed a co lection of
cutlery on the counter. The customer
pawed them over and selected a butcher’s
knife 18 inches ong. “Seven and six,” said
Moses, and reached for a piece of brown
paper. “Y’ needn’t wrap it up,” announced
the customer throwing down the money,
“I’ll use it now.” “Vat?” ejaculated Moses —
“use id now? Vat you do mit id?” “Gonna
cut me (hie) blanky throat,” was the stern
reply, ‘right here!” Moses reached across
the counter and grabbed the man’s arm.
‘Vhy vaste money?” he expostulated. “I dell
you vat I’ll do for you. You cud id oudside
in der street, and I’ll hire der knife oud
to you for fif e bob!”
* * * *
“The McTonal”: A michty currse on unin-
teeligent sub-editors. “Annie Laurie” is a
bonnie song, written, ye ken, by an ancestral
relative of mine, Will Douglass. Ah’m dis-
closin’ a secret the family lias hitherto eon-
seedered shamefu’, but as it lias been lately
bruited abroad ye may as weel hae it. ’Tis
this. The second vairse, which was sup-
pressed, ran:—
She’s baekit like the peacock,
She’s breastit like the swan;
She’s jimp aboot the midriff,
Her waist ye weel micht span;
Her waist ye weel micht span,
And she has' a rooting eye,
And for bonnie Annie Laurie
* I’ll lay me doon and dee.
“Jimp,” for the benefit of uninstructed
Southrons, means, as near as I can translate
it, a figure slender but strong, wi’ a wee bit
o’ the panther. She was a lively cantrip
lassie, I’ll warrant ye.
MORE OF THIS DEPRESSION.
“I must have pretty things—you married me for my
looks, remember!”
“Well, you married me for my money—and there’s
been a slump in both markets."
“Ap Mac”: Every now and then some
embittered Scot objects to being referred to
as “Scotch,” instead of “Scottish” or
“Scots.” Ramsay MacDonald unguardedly
employed the commoner adjective the other
day, and one of his compatriots reminded
him that it was “a Sassenach invention,
repugnant to Scottish ears.” On the other
hand, no complaint is heard from Wales
that the word “Welch,” for some reason or
other, is gradually displacing “Welsh” in
English books of reference. Apparently
Taffy doesn’t mind what he is called; the
original Saxon word only meant “foreign,”
anyhow.
ON WITH THE DANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Though they’ve quit the stage, the Sallies
and the Sadies of the ballets,
Vanished like the pasteboard chalets
where they used to pirouette,
In the poetry of motion there’ll be always,
I’ve a notion,
An exhilarating potion, and a man may
taste it yet
Where the flying feet are symbol of the dart-
ing hours, and nimble
Ivnuts adroitly gyre and gimble, with the
joy of life aglow,
And the steps grow subtly slicker as the
music rises quicker
And the flappers flash and flicker, float
and flutter to and fro.
Though yourself have done with dances and
concomitant romances,
And the lure of tender glances—done your
dash this many a day;
Though your form’s no longer fashioned for
calisthenics impassioned,
And your cakes and ale are rationed, and
your raven locks are grey ;
You may watch them swirl and swither, here
and hither, there and thither,
And the Jeremiahs’ blither and the scarcity
of dough
Won’t, I’ll bet, be lfalf as bitter in the
glamor and the glitter,
As the flappers flex and flitter to and
fro —to and fro.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


GIVE THE OLD HORSE A CHANCE!
"In view of the great fall in the valne of wool, Chief Judge Dethridge has reduced the shearing rate. A section of the members of the A.W.U. are strongly in favor
of resisting the reduction.... In Australia there are already 80,536 unionists out of work."
"Boys, lighten the load and give the old horse a chance! Besides, if you break down, you'll find it's darned cold camping just now."
Business, Robbery, etc.
The cheekiest advt. ever printed appeared
in the “S. M. Herald” the other day- it
invited applications from owners of last
motor-trucks to join an association to ex-
ploit the Sydney-Newcastle trade. This is
what we 'are taxed to build speedways tor.
The more we pay for speedways the more
we are taxed to make up the deficit on
the railways. This will go on, too, till we
get over our stupid objection to toils.
* * * *
The battle between the railway train and
the motor vehicle took a new turn m N-b.w.
the other day, when a party of football
players found it cheaper to travel from
Sydney to Bathurst by char-a-banc than to
take the train, the actual saving for a party
of 17 being £l4.
* * * *
“A. L. Cohol”: “Boro-Belle’s” statement
(B 2/7/’3O) that Australia could more pro-
fitably utilise its sugar surplus by converting
it into power alcohol instead of selling it
abroad at a loss has yet to be proved. Wit
the sanction of the Queensland Sugar Board
the first step to practically test it will be
taken during the present crushing season
when the Australian National Power Alcohol
Company, of Sarina (N.Q.), acting in con-
junction with the Plane Creek Sugar Nxill,
will carry out a series of experiments m
order to determine the practicability of con-
verting the lower-grade syrups into alcohol.
To ensure the greatest possible accuracy the
conclusions arrived at will be checked by an
independent sugar technologist, who win
watch the proceedings while the experiments
are in progress. It is expected that the
experiment will occupy about three weeks,
and at the end of that period it is hoped
that sufficient data will be available to permit
of a thorough investigation into the economic
possibilities of the scheme.
* * * *
National Airways, Ltd., the concern
operated by Kingsford Smith aiffiUlm which
runs the Brisbane-Sydney and Sydney-Mel-
bourne services, averaged on the bydney-
Brisbane service just under nine passengers
a day each way in the first half of the
year, and 780 letters. This mail service had
a great lift in June. Both rail and steamer
communication was suspended by storms and
floods, but the air-mail ran without a break.
To go by air-mail a letter may be posted in
the ordinary way; but it must be endorsed
“By air-mail,” and carry 3d. per extra
postage. The passenger fare is the same
from Sydney to Brisbane as from Sydney to
Melbourne— single £9 135.; return £lB 7s. 6d.
Passengers are allowed 301 b. luggage free.
* * * *
“Consett”: There are woollen mills in
Hobart which have been working all round
the clock to keep pace with the demand tor
blankets, flannels and suitings. It was early
in 1929 that Itobert Nettlefold (Nettlefold
Ptv., Ltd.) decided on reopening “Aiken s
mills,” which had been idle for two y ea l'®‘
The factory was made up-to-date, and w.
Taylor, who had had many years experience
in Bradford, was put in charge. Mr. Taylor
found the water of Hobart and other local
conditions particularly suitable for the manu-
facture of certain woollens, and . success m
a small way was scored from the jump. Close
on a hundred employees are now engaged,
98 per cent, of them local workers.
s** ' *
“A.J.8.”: “Smithfield’s” is an exagger-
ated description (B. 2/7/’3O) of the Wynd-
ham (W.A.) country. It was grass, no
doubt, that “Southfield” saw, and yet it
would take 20 acres of that country to fatten
a bullock. At the meatworks cattle are
paid for as they pass the scales. The. per-
centage of rejects and condemnations is
considerably higher than in the Eastern
States, largely due to poor quality of bulls,
deplorably crude methods of castration and
the contract system of droving. In many
instances cattle are driven 300 to 400 miles,
and, though they leave the station about
75 per cent fat, very often only half ot
them will pass. “The climate with the
exception of about eight to ten weeks is
declared to be good or first-rate. The average
daily temperature for the year at Wyndham
is 84deg., and about September the ther-
mometer rises to lOOdeg. and stays at that
with very little variation till the wet
season starts—generally December. From
then till March Wyndham is cut off from
the back country by floods. Yet the place has
advantages. It is a fortnight t e
European markets and is at lhe Lasts
back door. What would help development
of that part of Australia is a light
railway line from Wyndham to a point
between Darwin and Pine Creek; but this
would only operate during the meat season.
Arterial roads ought to be constructed by
aboriginal labor under white supervision from
Wyndham, Derby, Broome to Carnarvon so
as to allow of cheap motor transport. The e
are millions of tons of road material between
Wyndham and Derby. Aboriginals made
a road in the former place--under white
supervision—lo years ago, and it is still
carrying all the loading out of that port.
Loading into the interior now costs dd. a
pound. There are over one million acre.,
of good sheep country around Hall s Creek
that would be selected if assured of cheap
quick transport to the coast.
* * * *
Motor-car tyres are costly, but a lot of
overhead goes into one of them.. To begin
with, it takes the year’s yield of eight lubber-
trees in full bearing to supply the basis ot
an ordinary set of car tyres. The world s
average production of a tree is five pounds ot
rubber latex, and tdie average motor-tyre cover,
to say nothing of the tube, holds about 10 b.
of rubber. To that add the cost of clearing
and planting rubber land, the labor of col
lecting, and 8 the long wait until the trees
can be tapped.
The Bischoff Smelters, Launceston (Tas.),
are being dismantled after 55 years. The
Mount Bischoff Co. started producing in
1873 and commenced to smelt its own ore
a couple of years later. The Tasmanian Tin
Smelting Co. put up furnaces alongside the
present Customs House and commenced
operations a couple of years after the His-
choff- the two were amalgamated m 1887.
The Bischoff Smelters were first managed
by W L. Jenkin. and the Tasmanian by
G. J. Latta. Latta took charge of the com-
bined works, and after he died, m 19113, 13.
B. Jackson carried on for 20 years, and he
was followed by R. A. Jenkin During therr
55 years the Smelters put through 200,000
tons of concentrates, and turned out ingots
valued at £20,000,000.
* ❖ *
“'Parly” • The par. about’ Onkaparinga
travelling rugs (B. 9/7/’3O) reminds me of
the part the Faderland played m founding
the woollen industry in South Aus., for the
Onkaparinga Woollen Co., which Produces
these rugs in the Adelaide hills at Tweed-
vale, began with a little plant, brought with
him from Germany by one Kramrn, about
1869. He set up his primitive machinery m
an old brewery at Hahndorf. The wool was
washed by hand in the creek, dried m the
sun, and teased up by hand. The burring
was also done by hand at evening parties and
the wool was oiled on the malt floor or the
brewery, chiefly by Fraulein Kramm. Later
a syndicate was formed, and a manager 1 and
other skilled workmen were brought from Ger-
many. The mill kept going until 1878, was
revived in 1881 for six years, and m the
’nineties was given a new life by the con-
struction of a reservoir which secured a
permanent water supply for mill and town.
The mill buildings now cover three acres and
employ hundreds of hands. Incidentally, the
Onkaparinga Co. and Holdens are the only
important manufacturing concerns in boutn
Aus. which have flourished under Federation.
* * * *
By the Cane Prices Board Act of 1915
a board consisting of two Government repre-
sentatives and a Supreme Court Judge was
created in Queensland. This board pos-
sesses wide powers, by one. of which it can
refuse a canegrower the right to have his
cane treated at a sugar mill. When overseas
prices for sugar slumped, Queensland organi-
sations raised the cry of overproduction, and,
yielding to their demands, the board has
refused to allocate new cane areas to the
mills. The result of this is that little or no
new land has been developed for some years.
In many of the older sugar-growing areas
situated in the more temperate localities ot
the coast belt, severe frosts and depleted
fertility of the soil result in low crop ton-
nage, and it is chiefly from these areas that
cost of production figures are taken when
organisations put up a case to the authorities
for further protection or privilege. Mean-
while, thousands of acres of the very best
sugar land in the North lie undeveloped as
a result of the embargo on production. Thus
the virtues of the Commonwealth embargo
on black sugar are to a large extent counte -
acted by the Queensland embargo on
bringing new areas under cultivation.
* h= s - -
It’s a sign of the condition of things in
most places that South Africa finds itself
heavily overstocked with diamonds. In spite
of the rigid Government regulations since
the diamond-mining industry was monopo-
lised by the State, the market lias collapsed,
and the Union has safes chock-a-block with
gems which it cannot sell.. Worse the several
diamond-cutting firms which the Government
subsidised to transfer from Holland are put-
ting up the shutters, and are repatriating the
workmen they brought from the Netherlands.
* * * *.
“Svlvia”: The Forestry Commission ot
N S Wales makes in its latest annual report
a ’ well-grounded complaint that, while m
Queensland and Westralia indigenous timbers
are well known and frequently specified,
in the Ma State the imported stuff almost
completely dominates the field. N.S.
forests produce two very fine softwoods as
well as some of the best hardwoods obtain-
able anywhere in the world, but in my
modest experience as a maker of furniture
I have found it well-nigh impossible to
obtain supplies, while in cases where it was
possible the price was fixed at some fancy
rate that indicated the miller’s determination
to discourage such eccentric preferences.
As the Commission says, there isnt any
reason why every wooden floor laid m the
State shouldn’t be made of local timber, and
I might add that there isn’t any purpose
to which Oregon and imported oaks can be
put that couldn’t be better served by appro-
priate native timbers.
* * * *
“Lapis”: As “803” (B. 9/4/’3O) says,
real white sapphires are among the rarest
gems. Practically all those sold commer-
cially are synthetic. They possess all the
physical and optical properties of the
natural product, plus considerably greater
brilliance, but are distinguishable under the
microscope by the presence of myriads ot
tiny bubbles. The synthetic sapphire is
formed in the laboratory by precipitating
powdered alumina through a gas blowpipe.
The powder fuses and gradually builds up
in the form of an inverted pear. Science
has of late years so perfected the process
that the bubbles are now almost eliminated.
But as neither the natural nor the syn-
thetic stone is worth more than two or
three shillings a carat, the fraud doesn t
matter much.
* * *
“Tristram R.” : A more than usually enter,
prising street-hawker stopped me in George-
street Sydney. His line was unique. In
demonstrating he produced penny, >
a solution and “Rub briskly, sir, he said, and
the coin would pass for half a do j lar
crowded tram or racecourse I gathered
that the solution is only a shilling a e
and the brilliance it imparts to the humble
brown is transient.


PERSONAL
ITEMS
Hook, who crashed with Matthews in
Burmah, worked for a time with the Southern
Cross Insurance Co. in Melbourne. He is
remembered as a fine amateur pianist, who
took no interest in aviation.
Dr. F. P. Bowden, just now revisiting
Hobart, is a student of more than ordinary
note. The scholarships he won at the local
Uni. took him to Cambridge, where he
annexed a Rockefeller Research scholarship,
and was made a Fellow of Caius at 26. His
father was until recently head of the
Telegraph Department in Tasmania.
Adelaide has lost two veteran lawyers.
Rupert Ingleby, K.C., was son of a Q.C. of
the same name lost in the Gothenburg wreck
long ago. He was trained under Paris
Nesbit, S. J. Mitchell and John Downer, and
latterly was head of the Ingleby-Wallman
firm. W. H'. Wadey, S.M., had over 60 years’
experience of the law, and for a long period
was solicitor to Adelaide City corporations.
Dr. Omero Schiassi, lecturer in Italian at
Melbourne Uni., was a barrister at Bologna
before Fascism drove him out of his native
country. He came to Melbourne six years
ago and is the king-pin of the anti-Fascisti
society in these parts. Matteotti, the mil-
lionaire radical who was assassinated outside
the Chamber of Deputies in Rome, was his
fellow-student and friend, and he knew
Mussolini when the Duce was running a
Socialist nbeet.
Walter Kingsmill, the Senate President,
has been a civil servant in his time. After
taking his degree at Adelaide Uni. he joined
the S.A. Geological Department and left it
for a Mines Department job on the Westra-
lian goldfields. But for the last 33 years
he has been a politician. Kingsmill has
never been far outside Australia; his long-
est sea trip was a visit to the Malay States
10 years ago in a quasi-official capacity, and
he returned with a lot of commercial in-
formation for the Westralian Government
and some new flora and fauna for the Perth
Zoo. He is a keen naturalist and field
sportsman.
The late
H. W. APPERLY.
Henry W. Apper-
ly, general manager
of tbe A.M.P., who
died in Sydney last
week, started with
the society 55 years
ago as a 14-year-old
junior clerk. Ten
years later he was
appointed accountant
of the Adelaide
branch and there-
after his rise wap
steady; he held im-
portant positions in
Melbourne, Brisbane
, and London, finally
I succeeding Richard
f Teece as general
manager 13 years
ago. He saw the
A.M.P. grow from a
society employing a-
staff of about 25 till
it became the largest
mutual life insurance
office in the Empire,
and its funds increase
from a million and a
half to over 76 mil-
lions. He was a
keen cricketer and
fine golfer in his
day and in the very
front rank as q
chessplayer.
Vie. Parliament’s
links with pre-Fed-
eration days consists
of three members of
the Legislative
Assembly Spea-
cock, Prendergast
and Toutcher. The
evergreen Alec,
Father of the House
as well as Speaker,
has been a member
continuously since 1889. Prendergast dates
from 1894, but with one break of three
years; Toutcher from 1897.
Died in hospital at Singapore, while on six
months’ long service leave, Lloyd Eld Cham-
bers, K.C., the Speck’s Solicitor-General.
Born at Cullenswood in 1803, he was a
civil-service clerk before making the law his
profession, and was a police magistrate at
Queenstown, Zeehan and Devonport before
succeeding the late E. D. Dobbie as Solicitor-
General.
Some octogenarians :—•
Archbishop Kelly, Octavius 0. Beale, Dr. J. M.
Creed, M.L.C. (S 7), Rev. Dr. R. Dey (“Christian
World”), and knights Alfred W. Meeks and John
Sulman, of Sydney; journalist Benj. Iloare (87),
Rev. Dr. Chas. Strong (85), knight Edward Miller,
Dr. Alex. Leeper and plant pathologist D. McAlpine,
of Melbourne; Prof. Walter Howchin (85), knights
Lancelot Stirling, Lewis Cohen and Herbert Phillipps
(82), and retired pastoralist J. G. Moseley (83), of
Adelaide. Bishop Langley, of East Kew, Melb.
(formerly of Bendigo), is 94, and Ivor MacGillivray
(long M.P. for Port Adelaide), who worked on Maori-
land gold diggings with Dick Seddon, is 90.
“Mulga” : An older solicitor than William
Ardlie, of Warrnambool (Vic.) (B. 2/7/’3O),
is Francis Davison, of Mt. Gambier (S.A.),
who was admitted to the S.A. Bar in 1862.
Davison, at 91, is still to be found in his
office, deafness being his only disability.
Perth’s retired newspaper proprietor,
Arthur Lovekin, has seen more of the inside
working of dailies than most men. He
began as an “Age” reporter half a century
ago, but business management was his
strong suit and lie had 30 years of it in
Perth, first on a comparatively short-lived
and struggling morning paper and then on
a flourishing evening one. Hackett and Love-
kin were for years the outstanding figures
in Perth and antagonists in
most matters; the former was a prominent
member of the Leg. Council for years, but
the latter didn’t arrive there till after his
old adversary’s death. His pet hobby is
King’s Park, which was also Hackett’s.
With Miss Catherine O’Sullivan, who
passed out at 92 at Goulburn, went a link
with the early days. Her father was
one of the first bank managers of Goui-
burn ; her mother was a daughter of Michael
Dwyer, the famous Wicklow chieftain. The
deceased was the last of the family.
Herbert Harry Sterling, general manager
of M.L. Rail-
ways, entered
the service 30
years ago as a
cadet. He
studied law in
his spare time,
and when he
grad uated at
Otago Uni. he
was appointed
law officer, sub-
sequently be-
coming assistant
general manager
under R. Mc-
Villy. William
Goodfellow, of
the N.Z. Co-op.
Dairy Co., the
biggest concern
of the kind in
the world, en-
ticed Sterling
out of the rail- t
way service to j
be manager of
the butter busi-
ness, but Pri-
minister Coates
bought the
bright young
man back and
made him gen.-
man. at a record
high salary. As
the railways are
still steadily
H. H. STERLING,
general manager of
Maoriland railways.
losing- money, that big salary has recently
been the target for a good deal of criticism.
C. J. Levien, live wire of the Mandated
Territory goldfields, has been having one of
his rare trips to Sydney. He was D.O. at
Morobe when “Shark-eye” Parke located
Ivoranga Creek; some time afterwards Levien
resigned and bought out Parke and Nettle-
ton. When Royal and Glasson found gold
tat the Upper Edie Levien was instrumental
in floating Guinea Gold, but his biggest job
was the floating of Guinea Airways. What
was previously an eight-day journey inland
is now done in 30 minutes by ’planes that
carry half a ton. Newer and larger ones are
being brought out to carry dredging mach-
inery over the mountains.
Dead in Adelaide, at 60, Ben Basedow,
brother of the scientist and himself a man
of note in the wine-making industry. As a
young man he went to Europe and made a
close study of French and German methods;
returning, he managed various wineries, and
he ended as proprietor of Horndale, in the
vineyard country of Happy Valley.
Theodore and McCormack were both mine-
workers before becoming union officials and
politicians, the former’s experiences having
extended to four States. In Parliament
neither had long to wait for office. Theodore,
elected in 1909, was Treasurer six years
later and Premier inside of ten. McCormack,
who arrived in 1912, found himself Speaker
in 1915, and after four years in the chair
spent another ten in the Cabinet. He is
51, the senior of the pair by five years.
Ordnance Lieut.-Commander George Pri-
deaux, just retired from the Australian
Navy, saw service on sea and land. He was
one of the 200 Victorian naval men sent
to China, just over 30 years ago to help
quell the Boxer rebellion, and was with the
Australian Fleet from first to the last during
the Big Scrap. Farming at Narrogin
(W.A.) is now his objective.
Maoriland’s ex-Chief Justice, Bobert
Stout, who died on Saturday at 86, was
WALTER JARDINE, the artist who is
doing so much to improve the quality
of Australian pictorial advertising.
above all tilings a man of independent mind.
Over 00 years ago, just after he entered
Parliament, a Scottish member, a Tory and
a Presbyterian cider, was asked by a friend
his opinion of Bob Stout. “Weel,” he said,
“he’s a dominie turned lawyer, an atheist,
a teetotaller, a vegetarian an’ a radical an’
he disna’ smoke—but eh, mon, he’s a bonny
fechter!” And so he was, in politics and
law. In his heyday at the Bar he was
reputed to enjoy an income of £40,000 a
year. . He was Premier for a term in the
’eighties and a mighty power in Parliament
up. till 1899, when Seddon appointed him
Chief Justice. As a juifist he was princi-
pally noted for his profound knowledge of
commercial law and practice. Debarred
from politics by his elevation to the Bench
he turned his great mental energy to the
natural sciences, and corresponded with
savants and scientific societies all over the
world. His giant frame was not bowed by
advancing years and his intellect showed no
sign of waning. Queen Vic. made him a
Iv.C.M.G. in 18S6, and he became a member
of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Coun-
cil nine years ago. He retired from the
Bench in 1926.
Sir Otto Niemeyer, who has come to Aus-
tralia at the request of the Bank of England
to feel our financial pulse, is younger than
most eminent financiers. He is only 47.
“Mick” Savage, affectionately remembered
by thousands of Australian x-ifleshots as
superintendent of the Toowong and Enog-
?cra. rifle ranges iix Brisbane, has just
furnished a contradiction of the theory that
old soldiers never die. A Lancashire lad, he
was with Roberts to Kandahar, and saw a
lot' of mixed and fancy fighting on the Indian
N.-W. Frontier before joining the Queens-
land permanent forces in 1887. He retired
after the termination of the war; the end
came at 80.
Colonel Ray Stanley, D. 5.0., dead in Bris-
bane at 48 after a long illness, was a sapper
officer of outstanding ability. His connec-
tion with military life began in his boyhood,
when he joined the old Submarine Miners’
section of the Engineers. Assistant-Govern-
ment Analyst for Queensland, he filled in his
spare time with soldiering, specialising in
signalling. In 1914 he left Australia as a
captain and second in command of the First
Divisional Signallers. He was early on
Gallipoli, and, though w’ounded, saw the busi-
ness through to the Evacuation. Transferred
to France, he gained pi’omotion and a D.S.O.
there, and though downed by a severe bout of
pneumonia which laid the foundations of his
fatal illness, returned to the line until the
Armistice.
Stephen, Jaques and Stephen, Sydney's
front-rank firm of attorneys, have left
the Q’Connell-street building which they
had occupied for 40 years. It was
erected by “Seppy” Stephen, a son of Chief
Justice Alfred and father of Colin Stephen,
the A.J.C. chairman. The Imperial Service
Club first leased a couple of floors, and then
bought the premises from the Stephen execu-
tors at a bai’gain pxiee.
Capt. A. WIENHOLT, Independent, who
recently won the Fassifern (Q.) seat at
a by-election. He is also Queensland’s
own big-game hunter.
G. F. Holden, Chairman of Melbourne
Harbor Trust, who showed Hogan round his
outfit the other afternoon, was unintention-
ally the means of bringing the present
Premier into Vic. Assembly. When Willie
Watt appointed Holden Chairman of Mel-
bourne Harbor Trust 17 years ago, the
lattter had to resign his Warrenheip seat in
the Assembly. Hogan happened to be on a
visit to Vic. from Westraiia, where he was a
union secretary, and the Labor nomination
for Warrenheip, he being a native of these
parts, dropped into his lap. He got in and
stayed there.
The red flag flew for the first time over
the Christchurch (M.L.) Trades Hall one
day. recently, not as a gesture of Bolshevist
defiance, but as a half-mast tribute of respect
to Comrade Freddy Cooke, who was being
buried that afternoon. Everyone in Christ-
church knew and liked Freddy. He was a
convinced and unflinching Marxian Socialist,
and was never seen in public without a red
tie, but he was a rattling good secretary, a
healer rather than a stirrer-up of industrial
strife, and a very useful member of the City
Council for years. He stood for Parliament
whenever he got the chance, but never with
any real hope of success. Being an atheist
he was buried without religious ceremony.
Major Bryan Cooper, who visited Aus-
mdia with the last Press delegation, died in
Dublin recently. Without Irishmen of his
type the Free State infant might not have
survived its teething troubles. He had gone
into the R.F.A. via Eton and Woolwich, and
was a true blue Carlton Club Tory. Yet
he stood for the Dail, and when elected, as
an ind: pen dent, gave the Cosgrave party
strong and valuable support. H'e was a
small, cheery rotund man who looked like an
Irishman and spoke like an Englishman. He
lived at Dackey, a Dublin suburb, and got
most of his support from electors who were
his neighbors, and particularly from members
of the R.C. hierarchy. He was the only
Protestant of the landlord clan in the Dail,
though there are many, of course, in the
Senate.
Few men know more about his subject
than James L. Moore, who has just pub-
lished “The Canine King” in Melbourne,
a book on the working sheep-dog. Moore
took up the breeding of the sheep-dog 30
years ago. and now has kennels in Maori-
land and four Australian States. A son of
one of his products, Macpherson’s Moss,
won the supreme international trial in Scot-
land recently. Kelpie-breeding is a hobby.
Moore is legal manager for the Pajfreyman
tin-mining group and a director of various
jam factories. His grandfather was the
first Controller of the State Savings Bank
in Vic.; George Gordon McCrae was an
uncle and poet Hugh is a cousin.
G. H. Pritchard, who died in Brisbane
recently at 61, was one of the big men of the
Australian sugar industry. Born in Albury,
banking was liis first occupation; he resigned
from the management of the Townsville
branch of the Q. N. Bank to take up the
work to which he devoted the remainder of
his life —the organisation of the sugar indus-
try. He was founder and foundation secre-
tary of the Australian Sugar Producers’ Asso-
ciation and achieved an international reputa-
tion as a sugar expert at many conferences
at home and abroad. He was a keen soldier,
serving with the Garrison Artillery for years,
and, with the late T. J. Ryan and E. 11.
Macartney, now Queensland Agent-General
in London, he was a State delegate to the
Conscription Conference convened by the
Governor-General in 1918. In his early days
he was a noted pedestrian and Rugby foot-
baller.
Australia has a few friends away from
home. One of them, Colonel E. P. Bailey,
of San Marino, California —he has an
ancient connection •with Australia—has been
doing good work in the U.S.A. explaining
why Australia just had to build a high-tariff
wall. Bailey puts the case plainly in one
widely-scattered article. In effect, he says,
the question is whether Australia shall buy
goods from America and pay for them, or
do without them and pay interest on the
money it has borrowed from Uncle Sam. It
can’t do both, and Bailey puts it that it is an
honest sou* who is going without the goods
and trying to pay the interest.
TO “BULLETIN” READERS.
In common with all other newspapers of
Australia The Bulletin has been seriously
considering the position created by the vari-
ous new taxes.
During the war almost all newspapers
were forced to increase their price. The
Bulletin, which undertook to revert to the
old price at the earliest possible moment,
was the first paper in Australia to do so.
In the capitals outside Sydney the pi’ice of
the daily paper that was formerly Id. has
continued to this day to be either or
2d. Proprietors who maintained the in-
crease justified themselves by the fact that
newsprint paper has never fallen below
about 50 per cent, advance on the pre-war
price.
Last week the Sydney daily newspapers
resolved that they could no longer stand out
against rising costs, and announced an in-
crease of 50 per cent, in selling price. The
paper hitherto one penny will on and after
August 4 be three-halfpence.
The Bulletin, though more heavily hit
by the primage duty than the daily news-
papers, because its superior printing paper
costs 50 per cent, more, believes that the
position can be met without raising the
price and thus adding to the cost of living.
At any rate it is going to see if it can’t be
done.
There will, therefore, be no increase in
the price of The Bulletin, which will be
sold at sixpence as hitherto. But such
further improvements will be made in the
paper as will, it is believed, greatly add to
the circulation; and it is hoped that the
large additional sales which are confidently
relied upon will offset the additional costs.
The first attraction will be' Montague
Grover’s remarkable serial story, “Thirty
Pieces of Silver.” This will open next-
week, July 30.
Still further attention will be paid to the
art section. The drawings published in
The Bulletin are now generally admitted
to be the finest in the world ; and they will
be made still finer. To the work of the
present generation will be added the finest
examples of the work of “Hop,” Phil May,
George Lambert and G. R. Ashton. These
will appear in the section “As We Said
Before.”
The call for the seiwices of the “Wild
Cat” department was never so great. In
these most uncertain times every investor,
great and small, is in need of some authority
to whom he can refer. The “Wild Cat”
department is to be strengthened in order to
meet the heavier calls upon it. It will aim
at being a complete guide to the investor,
who is invited to consult it in any difficulty.
During over 50 years The Bulletin has
built up between itself and the bulk of its
readers something more intimate than the
usual relations betwmen newspaper and
subscriber. It knows that the redemption
of its war-time promise to return to the
old price at the earliest possible moment
was greatly appreciated; and it believes also
that its present efforts to meet the greatly-
increased costs of production without put-
ting up the price will have the same general
approval.


PACK DRILL.
“Britain be-ins to realise that Australia is making a definite effort to retrieve its errors, and there is in consequenee a greater disposition to offer some asststancc.”
THE SERGEANT-MAJOR: “It's a devil of a load, lad! But there’s nothing like holding your head up and looking as though you liked it!"


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Mr. Cinders”
criterion “Little Accident”
fc>TATE Movies and Talkie*
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMTNG WEEK.
“The New Moon”
King's . ... “Scandal”
“ OYT 8 Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
*
For the first time in years people were
turned away from Sydney Opera House one
night last week. Had the legitimate
theatre suddenly risen again to its old glory?
Had Sydney wearied at last of shadows,
Public-school boys thoroughly enjoying “Hamlet” at Sydney
Opera Home.
and tiptoes through the toolips, and glycer-
ine tears, and custard pies, and girls rather
out of tights, and house-shaking voices, and
whispering thunder, and all the other marvels
of Mollywood? Had it been realised with
surprised delight that one of the greatest
plays ever written was to be seen for a few
shillings by anyone who would take a tram
to Campbell-street and resist the temptation
to enter that dream palace of a prawn addict,
the Capitol? Or was it that the gauntlet had
been thrown down to Melbourne, which
cultured city lately preened itself on having
been complimented by Mr. Allan Wilkie for
its good taste in patronising his entertain-
ments?
As the angel remarked to Abou—no! It
meant simply that the Great Public Schools
are taking “Hamlet” for this year’s leaving
examination. The play is part of a subject
called English, in which it is considered
necessary that the younger generation should
become proficient. At least once a year Mr.
Wilkie and his co.—all of whom speak Eng-
lish like poets who are, miraculously, also
ladies and gentlemen—set themselves up in
a theatre and proceed cheerfully to teach
the young idea how the language should be
used. That their altruistic efforts are not
unrewarded is proved by the fine feeling for
both the English language and the Bard’s
great creation evinced by the scores of
splendid young Australians who surrounded
this Showman’s stall on the opening night.
Before the curtain rose one of these young
fellows gave it as his considered opinion that
“Hamlet” as a play was fair dope. Hamlet
himself threw a bit of a winge, but he. was
hawk-eye on the old boy’s strychnine cock-
tail. Another ventured to remark that Pol-
onius beat about a fair bush. The stabbing
of that Lord Chamberlain, he considered, was
meat pie. Yet another professed a liking
for the scene in which Hamlet gets off his
bike and goes the mob scone-hot, and the
other in which he tells Ophelia not to get
out of her pram, he’ll pick up her dummy.
Another scholar preferred the scene in which
the King tossed up the sponge and tried to
do a bunk, and several agreed that it would
have been humdingher if Shakspeare had
shown Ophelia trickling off to heave herself
into the duckwash. At this point the critical
remarks were suspended to permit a thun-
derous burst of applause, tribute to a faint
green light which had been switched on to
the right corner of the stage. The immediate
rise of the curtain, revealing the eerie ram-
parts setting, with soldiers on guard, was
greeted with roof-lifting laughter, which
was renewed, with a barrage of throw-
downs, when presently the Ghost entered,
“The Ghost’s got the wind well up.”
armed. Thereafter the play proceeded
briskly:
BERNARDO: “In the same figure, like the king
that’s dead.” (Bang!)
MARCELLES: “Thou art a scholar; speak to
it, Horatio.” (Ha, ha!)
HORATIO: “Most like; it harrows me with
fear and wonder.”
BERNARDO: “It would be spoke to.”
Marcellus: “Question it, Horatio.” (Ait-
choo!)
Horatio : “What art thou, that usurp’st
this time of night,
Together with that fair and
warlike form
In which the majesty of buried
Denmark
Did sometimes march? By Heaven,
I charge thee, speak!”
{Bang, bang, BANG!)
At this stage interest is momentarily dis-
tracted from the drama by a dialogue a
little distance away in the stalls:—
First Public School Boy: “The ghost’s
got the wind well up.”
Second Ditto : “Don’t go too strong on the
bloke in the Queensland colors, do you?”
First P. S. B.:
“Somebody let
off a raz in
school this
arvo, and old
Henry rounded
rou ii d with
‘W ho made
that noise ?’
One of them
said, ‘What
noise?’ That
beat him—he
wasn’t game to
say.”
Second P. S. B.:
“Would have
been a good
idea if Shaks-
. pea re had
heaved a few
harpies into
this play,
too.”
First P. 5.8.: “Too
right. Great
stuff, harpies.
I like ’em
cornin’ down on
to the feast
hawk eye!”
First Public School Girl (seated immedi-
ately behind boys) : “I wish you boys
would shut up. I want to hear the
words.”
First Boy ( anxiously ) : “Why, sister?”
By the time some sanguinary sniping of
Laertes and the King of Denmark with throw-
downs has subsided and three aniseed balls
have twanged in the orchestra piano, Polonius
enters, dressed in a long flowing cloak,
sandals and a grey beard. He looks like
a major prophet, and a voice at once
breaks out in the dress-circle: “Mother,
“Getting about in the cold without his Akubra.”
here’s the milkman !” Hamlet himself stirs
pity in a soft-hearted boy, who is overheard
to remark that the “Prince is taking a bit
of a risk getting about in the cold without
his Akubra.” Again, when Ophelia—whose
name has just been boisterously discovered
to be spelled in the programme “Orphelia”
—leaves out part of the mad song, there is
a strong protest from the right of the audi-
torium, where an aggrieved voice asserts
that it has “had a roughie put over it” and
“wants its beans back.” The reaching of the
churchyard scene brings the enthusiastic
comment that “there can’t be much more
now,” but spirits appear to be heartily re-
vived all round when, in the closing scene.
Hamlet sees his mother fall dead from the
poison cup, pinks Laertes and sees him
topple, and then completes the debacle by
doing likewise with Claudius. It draws a
comment worthy of it, in a low but clear
voice:—
“Hat trick to Grimmett!”
The curtain falls. The applause is deaf-
ening. You w r ake up suddenly to the queer
fact that it is meant! The show, you have
noticed between distractions, has been
pretty well done; apparently the Younger
Generation has thought so, too! Ten min-
utes or so later you are having coffee at a
table alongside a party of them. They are
having coffee, too, and, you gather,, sand-
wiches of “rat-bait,” “fin” and “unclean
beast.” The consensus of their critical
opinion is that the show was honk-konk. As
for AVilkie, he was nothing short of hot
dog.
Mr. Wilkie has a C.B.E. to wear, and, by
heavens
¥ * #
A group of actors, most of whom appear
to be moved by a person offstage pulling
strings, are reviving “Scandal” at Melbourne
King’s. Even the worst acting, however,
would fail to spoil the popular appeal of
a play in whose second act Loon Gordon
threatens to disrobe Mary Maegregor before
the entire house, and is only deterred from
doing it by the nobility of his sentiments.
“Scandal” provides the last opportunity of
seeing Mr. Gordon in his one and only role
before he goes to Hollywood to sell himself
to the enemy.
* * *
Several hundred more music-lovers than
the law allows struggled to get into Mel-
bourne Town Hall for the third Heinze out-
break in conjunction with Austral, Amadio
and the Philharmonic Society.
The most important subject on
the agenda paper was the
“Schererazade” symphonic
suite of Rimsky-Ivorsakov,
never previously performed in
Melbourne in its entirety,
although Marshall H'all once
did part of it. The piece is a
vast and somewhat shambling
edifice of ornate decoration,
gorgeous coloring and fussy
filigree, and claims to ne
Oriental in nature. Present
critic boggles at “Oriental.”
He has heard real Oriental
music ad lib —hours and hours
of it, even days of it —at wed-
ding ceremonies, funerals and
what not. All the Oriental
music of his acquaintance had
the same characteristics. It
was without beginning and
without end. The orchestra
could knock off for a drink
or a pull at the opium-pipe
and begin again in the wrong
place without anybody being
the wiser. It is quite cus-
tomary for the Oriental
equivalent of a trombonist to
step out for forty winks and
another take Ins place in the
middle of a selection.
But Rimsky-Korsakov’s muse has shape,
if not very much of it. The Russian com-
poser really did as incongruous a thing in
attempting to blend the tradition of Beet-
hoven with the traditions of Abdul Rahman
as a Brahmin in completing his everyday
costume with a hardhitter and calling him-
self a European. Still, the suite is an amaz-
ing feat of orchestration, if a trifle long-
winded, and the University people battled
nobly with its manifold complexities and
came up smiling, though the leading violin
lost the thread of the subject in her solo
sections.
The piece purports to tell the story of the
Sultan Schariar, who swore to chop off the
head of each of his wives on their wedding
night to prevent their going the way of all
harem-flesh and being unfaithful. The
beautiful and ingenious Schererazade puts
off the evil day by telling her syndicated hus-
band successive bedtime stories; but eventu-
ally she joins the great majority. The
various parts have titles such as “The Pripce
and the Princess” and “The Sea and the
Vessel of Sindbad,” but the writer failed to
perceive the connection. Perhaps Rimsky-
Korsakov didn’t mean anything more than
the Malay cook who calls his curries by
such names as “The Three Virgins in One
Room,” or “The Shrieking Sarifa and the
Laughing Sayid.” It is all one, so long as
they digest well, and there are parts of
Rimsky’s composition which digest exceed-
ing well, especially the lovely third move-
ment.
The rest of the programme was mainly
Austral and Amadio, the former a trifle
below her usual form, the latter well up to
his. The duo raced to Sydney at the week-
end. gave a final concert that charmed a large
audience, and raced back immediately to
Melbourne, where two more concerts will be
given before they head for Perth to end the
Australian tour.
* V- *
Marie Bremner, Mary Lawson, Syd Bur-
chall, Kellaway and the rest became inhabi-
tants of “The New Moon” on Saturday
night at Melbourne Royal, and the usual
good show was greeted by an overflowing
house. The show is heavy with plot and big
with spectacle, though somewhat deficient
in comedy, and the songs sung by those fine
vocalists Burchall and Herbert Browne are
clotted with romantic sentiment.
* * #
At Sydney Palace on Saturday Miss
Bramley turned to a tragic offering called
“The White Rat,” wherein she is a young
lady condemned to be hanged over some
night-club shooting. Happily for those who
look forward to seeing her starring through
a long and successful season, the governor
of the gaol walks in his sleep and whilst thus
employed telephones a reprieve. Miss Bram-
ley is to bo congratulated; it was a terribly
narrow escape.
Little Accident,” the latest Taliaferro
offering at Sydney Criterion, is an obstetric
farce in tnree acts. If you like jokes about
maternity, it should repay a visit; if you
don't, it won’t. Gus Bluett has a part which
carries the show, and he manages it rather
well. Miss Taliaferro has her worst part of
the season and gives her worst display. She
“To heave herself in the duckwash."
plays it as if -she'd like to murder its makers.
The show could be a lot better without being
very good.
* * *
Though an Australian journalist, Leslie
Haylen,” is the author of “Two Minutes’
Silence,” the war drama at the Community
Playhouse, Sydney, none of the characters
has the remotest connection with Australia.
The curtain rises and falls on a London
drawing-room, wherein four persons—an
army general, a governess, a butler and a
charwoman —happen to be when the clocks
chime eleven on Armistice Day. All stand
at attention for the customary two minutes,
and that recalls to each some poignant
memory of the war. Four scenes follow in
which the quartette separately take the
leading parts. The charwoman sees again
the young clergyman bringing the news of
her son’s death; the general re-enacts his
part in the offensive in which his muddled
plans enormously swelled the casualty list;
the governess (she is French) suffers again
in the hands of an enemy officer and finds her
lover too squeamish to take her back; and
the butler gets near to starvation on the
Embankment. The pattern of the play is
original and the author is obviously sincere,
but there is a tendency to preach, frequent
lapses into theatricality and stilted dialogue.
Ethel Gabriel as the charwoman and Asthore
Taunton as the governess were excellent
throughout, Frank Carswell, just about the
most versatile amateur actor in Sydney,
shone as the butler, but J. A. Reid appeared
to be nervous as the general.
* * *
Adelaide Repertory Theatre has revived
“Arms and the Man.” Thelma Baulder-
stoue (who also produced) accented strongly
the admittedly artificial posing of the
heroine, and Will Joyce was a mature and
humorous and unheroic soldier. The fine
figure and voice of Harford and of Denton
made them outstanding among the men, and
Mimi Mattin was the real thing as the other
girl of the story. Three big houses laughed
happily over the humorous romance, and
especially over the financial details at the
end.
* * *
The art fancier who desires to appreciate
tp the full the fine achievement of Justus
'Jorgensen at Melbourne Athenaeum is hereby
warned to leave preconceived ideas about
“artistic” conventions and the picturesque in
painting at the door, along with his over-
coat and umbrella. Jorgensen is a realist,
and if his forms appear to be unnecessarily
vague, the more telling appear his renderings
of exterior light and indoor atmosphere. A
girl in blue rather sadly contemplating a
girl in red has some of the shapelessness, but
all the suggestion of pure color, of a pastorale
by Debussy, Two more damsels, whose
minor anatomical details are open to ques-
tion, are seated on the grass under some wis-
taria, and the picture blazes with sunlight.
In “The Artist and his Wife” Mrs. Jor-
gensen is depicted telling her husband with
some heat that the eggs will be hard if he
doesn’t hurry. That gentleman, naked to the
waist, is painting his own portrait, and flesh
so luminous is seldom seen on canvas. “The
Grandmother” is not only sensitively handled
but should interest those in quest of a
“Hawk-eye on the strychnine cocktail!”
pleasant picture. Near by, wliat looks at
first glance like a bloodstain resolves itself at
the right distance into an effulgent study of
a girl in a scarlet dress under a red sunshade.
Present critic feels Pss enthusiasm about the
large nude called “Studio Atmosphere.” The
landscapes are remarkable for a general
absence of land but a prevalence of wind,
moist air and sunshine, delicately suggested.


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
‘Dynamite
Safety Fuss
Detonators
Cartridges
Wonklitl ENDURA
Pens and Pencils
All Repairs FREE including
Accidental Breakage !
REDUCE OVERHEAD
with Increased Belting Efficiency
Now is the time of strict economy in plant operation to meet the demand for
Bating "platys such an important part in that t e^ oU^ lt gJ. rat,nS
economy to specify belting of dependable qua y v.ro*ikrlnwns and pays
Kf^t^efSlglS se^c.
There is a special Pioneer Belt for every engineering need. Write for par
PIONEE
leather
BELTING
THE LEADER SINCE *B5B
Weatherproof because Waterproof.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY (Our only City Address).
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
This Week’s Investment Tip.
How can The Bulletin justify its
approval of a reduction of wages at Broken
Hill if what the Sydney “Labor Daily says
is true — that the capital of three cos.
{named ) consists chiefly of water, and triat
the real capital of the B. H. North, for
example, is only £300,000, watered up to
£700,000, and of the B. H. South £95,000,
watered up to £BOO,OOO? — “Wild Gat” corres-
pondent.
The . investor lias to keep one eye on poll-
ties these days. A political party may
easily ruin any concern in which lie is
interested--not: wickedly, but just because
it believes the concern is a bloodsucker oi
some other form of undesirable, and
ought to be scotched. In this connection
the question of “water” comes up oftener
than almost any other; and the investor
must have an answer if he is to hold his
It is quite true that there have been
reconstructions and issues of bonus shares
by these Broken Hill cos. As a matter of
fact, the North was bought for far less
than £2oo,ooo—for less than half of it. It
was originally taken up at a cost of a few
shillings. Almost every . mine is. bo it
you go back to the beginnings you can snow
that most successful mining cos. capital
consists chiefly of water. It is the unsuc-
cessful co. that eats up the real money. And
these unsuccessful cos. there are without
number. At one time there were nearly 80UU
pegged blocks on the Barrier. Not more than
10 of them ever paid a dividend. Some of
them —the Pinnacles and Round IliU, tor
example—swallowed hundreds of thousands
of pounds, real money subscribed by the
public and spent almost wholly in wages
and mine requisites, which are chiefly labor.
If it wasn’t for the chance of being one oh
the 10, not one of the 8000 would ever have
had a penny spent on it.
A man takes a ticket m Tatt. s. He
spends 6s. on it and draws £5OOO. lhe
£4999 14s. is water —just as much water as
the bonus stock handed to the shareholders
of the very occasional mining co. which is
able to issue it. But nobody ever suggests
that the £4999 14s. ought to be handed back
or otherwise disgorged.
One section of the Labor party and some
who don’t belong to the Labor party always
want to have ago at big profits. Big P r ohts
are, they say, a robbery of the worker. The
investor needs to get that out of the public s
head. Big profits put more money into the
worker’s pocket than anything else in the
world. Let a big find of gold be made
to-morrow, enriching half a dozen proprie-
tors, and 100 times more than those pro-
prietors make will be soon available for
prospecting and development.
Meantime, until the Labor party can be
convinced of this, concerns which consist
largely of bonus shares must be watched,
lest an attack be made upon them, lor,
unfortunately, the attack that is made in
ignorance can he just as deadly as one that
is made with a full knowledge of what it
all means.
The Queensland National Bank.
Net T°
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1920.. 104,673 10 p.c. = 77,274 27,399 306,165
1921.. 115,541 10 „ „ 79,746 35,795 341,960
1922! ! 126,819 124 „ ~ 99,952 26,867 368,82/
1923.159,350 124,, „-00,000 ! „ 418;l77
Written off premises ..£lO,OOO )
Premiums on new shares .. 147,512 565,689
1924.. 186,388 12J p.c.= 137,880 3g 608 60 4,197
Written off premises .. £lO,OOO )
Premiums on new shares • • 12,488 616,685
1925. . 196,946 10 p.c. = 125,181 ], 59 265 675,950
Written off premises. £12,500 )
1926.. 207,176 10 p.c. = 148,977 \ 45 699 721,649
Written off premises, £12,500 )
1927.. 204,702 10 p.c. = 150,000 l 42j2 02 763,851
Written off premises, £12,500 )
1928.. 211,960 10 p.c. = 172,139 f 29>821 793)67 2
Written off premises, _ £lO,OOO )
1929. . 212,385 10 p.c. = 174,998 l 27)387 8 21,059
Written off premises, £lO,OOO )
1930.. 204,956 9 p.c. = 157,500 1 37)456 858,515
Written off premises, £lO,OOO )
Including the £lO,OOO - struck off premises,
the admitted net result was 11.7 P-c. on
average capital compared with 12.1, xz.*,
13.6, 13.9, 15.7 and 16.1. p.c. back ,to 1924.
The decline in the ratio is due mainly to a
flood of new capital—£9so,ooo has been got
in over the last half-dozen years re-
cent events have changed the whole outlook,
filling it with uncertainty. . Money has
become scarce and dear, security values arc
on the decline, and so are trade tul “oyer»
generally, while stinging increases m tax-
ation have checked early prospects <
adequate cut in costs, thus handicapping
traders and others in the process of readjust
“iT'is plain, therefore, that profit-writing,
at best a matter of estimate,
vastly more uncertain than hitheito pie
cisely how bad or doubtful a debt may
cannot be finally determined until it is
liquidated. So the directors of the
being prudent men, decided conseive t .
bank’s resources, and reduced the div. paid
quarterly, from 10 to 8 p.c. p.a. half-way
through the term, making 9 p.c. foi the
year. Immediately the price for the *5
paid shares dropped from £7 7s. to £6. the
market recovered to £i, then eased to £6 1
The return at the current price is 6.1 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The visible backing
amounts to £7 9s. in net tangibles But, of
course, the bulk of these tangibles have no
interest 'centres chiefly in
prospects of the 10 p.c. div. being restoied.
When the 2 \ p.c. bonus was dropped in
1925 the declared aim was to keep the cm.
steady at 10 p.c. and make new share issues
at par. Although lessened trade activity can
be expected to affect exchange and other
earnings, over 80 p.c. of the bank s ns
are in Queensland, which may not feel the
pinch quite so severely as some of the othei
States. Moreover, the co. is . vei y yfcl
equipped to earn good returns; in addition
to £858,515 of visible reserves at March 31
there is the inner strength, built up during
a long period of regeneration, which is be
fieved to be substantial. Also there is
£3 091,669 of interminable debenture stock,
costing the bank only p.c. To pay mter-
est on this stock, and 10 p.c. on the scr p,
total funds (capital, reserves and debenture
stock combined) need to net only 4 9 p.c.,
after providing for contingencies the
admitted return was 5.5 p.c. last year.
Things will need to get a lot. worse before
a 10 p.c. div. is beyond the co. s reach.
The contraction in pastoral and otfie
incomes shows up in a shrinkage of £746.87]
in deposits. Mainly to meet these with
drawals, and put an extra £<4,o6< out on
advance, liquids were drawn upon for
£854,418 last year:—
Liabilities.
1922. 1926. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital 800,000 1,60*000 1,750,000 1,750,000
In S"‘ bl l,o«,e«9 5,091,009 3,091 069 3,091 669
£&£ osts *BBB
Assets.
Liquid 4 535 196 4,644,695 3,790,27 1
Advances" fcStiS 5K:10,423,181
Premises 500,411 533,531 524,8a0 527,173
Nevertheless, they were 42.1 P- c - oftbe lia-
bilities to the public as against 47.3, 46.0
and 44.2 p.c. at the three preceding bal-
ances. At the same date the bank was
holding only £1 11s. Jd. of the public s money
for every pound of its own funds, including
the debenture stock. It is a strong position.
Of the £527,173 at which premises figure--
£B7 500 lias been openly Struck • off then
book Valife since 1923-£170,000 is revenue
shareholdings in other cos., a
reminder of the crash of the nineties are
not detailed in the sheet. They include Mil-
ls quin Sugar and Q. N. Pastoral; the former
has paid 10 p.c. for the last three ? oa T s :'jy
the latter hit by recent drought, had piled
up losses equal to 15s. 4d. per ord. share at
December 31 last.
Co-op. Insurance Co. of Australia, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1921.. 18,025 7 p.c. = 3127 l*!? 98 18373
Additional establishment costs, £lOl 18,374
1Q99 14 344 7 p.c. = 3063 lU,iel
iqM 9 765 7„ „ 3929 5,836 34,990
1994" 19 015 7” „ 4303 14,712 49,702
1925! : 20’,807 8 „ „ 5415 15,392 65,094
1927" 26 818 7 8562* 18!256 89^890
22 207 7” ” 9018* 13,189 103,079
Reserve’s capitalised, £15,000 .. 88,079
;»!»:: m; Si- .8&
Taxation reserve, £4060 ■• ■ i 1 85,184
*lncludes bonuses to shareholding factories.
The shares in this co., which was_ formed
in Vic. 11 years ago, are held by the half-
dozen principal farmers’ co-op. organisations
in Vic , N. S. Wales and S. Aus. These
bodies are also the agencies through which
most of the business, mainly agricultural
insurance, is gathered. Thus favored, the
co. has quickly worked itself into a very
snug position. The div. has been kept
steady at 7 p.c., more has been put aside
than distributed, and, after scattering £lo,ooo
of bonus scrip in 1927, reserves were piled
£10,164 higher than paid capital at the close
of last accounts. . . , p- o nnQ
Past year’s profit was derived £13,008
from underwriting and £B9 <3 from interest
and rents, together 23.1 p.e. on average
capital compared with 19 p.c. and 23.6 p.e.
in the two preceding terms. The ( p.e.
div. took £6651, to which bonuses amounting
to £2744 were added, making a total distri-
bution of 9.8 p.c. for the year. And then
practically the whole of the underwriting
surplus remained in the business to further
swell investments and the returns there-
from. The office is co-operative to the ex-
tent that bonuses are paid to shareholders,
individual policy-holders are not given insur-
ance at cost price. No doubt the co-op.
farmers’ societies themselves contribute a
large part of the business, though the vol-
ume of other risks is expanding. Presently
the business is to be extended to other
States
Underwriting performances have behaved
in this way:— _ „
Net Pre- Ex- Loss Expense
miums. Losses, penses. Ratio. Ratio.
19“>0 £14,235 £1,689 £6,477 11.9 p.c. 45.5 p.c.
1921.. 46,564 6,963 23,924 14.9 „ 51.4 „
1922.. 55,274 11,293 32,177 20.4 „ 58.2 „
1923.. 62,884 15,487 40,490 24.6 „ 64.4 „
1924.. 76,823 19,246 41,416 25.1 „ 53.9 „
1925.. 89,116 23,698 49,216 26.6 „ 55.2 „
1926.. 91,735 33,855 51,143 36.9 „ 55.8 „
1927.. 123,710 43,790 59,038 35.4 „ 47.7 „
1928.. 113,843 44,695 53,696 39.3 „ 47.2 „
1929.. 115,255 49,047 56,207 42.5 „ 48.8 „
1930.. 112,219 44,443 54,768 39.6 „ 48.8 „
The expense rate is still heavier than _ it
ought to be considering the ease with which
most of the business is harvested. Owing
to the mildness of claims last years under-
writing surplus (£13,008) was £3OOB
stronger than the previous year s, being 11. b
pc. of the net premiums as against 8.7, lrf.o
and 16.9 p.c. for the three years before last.
Policy-holders are well protected, as the
next comparison shows :
1921. 1925. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital . . £49,770 £72,520 £95,020 £95,020
Sundry creditors.. 18,625 46,526* 17,051 23,346
“S
Ki.r cur, *i“y K
sTiS* :: SjS BiS RSB &5S
’ *lncludes £36,679 owing on freehold.
At the close of last accounts they could see
net tangible assets, mostly m good quality
securities, equal to 178.4 p:c. °* y ® ar
net premiums, and that is over 28 p.c. moi
than is usually considered adequate. lh-
year’s surplus earnings were invested mainly
in Government securities and on deposit.
Allen Taylor and Co., Ltd. (Sydney).
To Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £
1920 17 812 10 p.c. = 15,000 2812 40,728
199 i' ‘ 17 622 10 .. 15.000 2622 43,350
llll:: 17 708 io ;;;; 15,000 2708 40.053
1923 17’018 10 „ ~ 15,000 2018 48,0(6
mi:: 16,106 io ::;, 15,000 uo 6
1995 13 142 10 15,000 47,324
loop" 13 655 9 13,500 155 47,479
1997* 7 553 4 6 000 1553 49,032
199S ' 1 843 Nil 1843 50,875
1929' 3 145 Nil 3145 54,020
So'.: 409 Nil 409 54,429
For 20 years after the public became inter-
ested in it this N. S. Wales timber co was
a steady 10 per-center. But the last tm.
years have been full of sorrow in the nidus-
try and now the position has been aggia-
vated by the country’s economic ills and
financial debility, and the timber and build-
ing trades are partially paralysed.
That the co. balanced on the right side of
the ledger last year was because it nas
£43 000 invested outside the business, mostly
in public securities and on fixed deposit.
Ordinary trading operations resulted in a
loss, notwithstanding that the co. s mills
are well established in good forest areas and
efficiently conducted; many small millers,
unable to find a market for their products,
had to shut down. For the five years to
the close of last accounts average net earn-
ings were a mere 3.5 p.c. on capital as
against an average of 10.5 p.c. for the pre-
ceding quinquennium. Yet that is a_mildi„-
unfavorable experience compared with what
others in the trade have suffered. .
What the investor has to keep in mind is
that the real worth of the assets is what
they can be made to earn, and immediate
prospects for a revival of trade activity aie
not encouraging. The co. concentrates on
big timbers, but the extent to which steel
has displaced wood in building and con-
struction and the widening uses for con-
crete have narrowed the co. s field,
seem likely to go on doing, so. Also there
are still too many in the industry foi tn.
volume of business available.
There is nothing uneasy about tlie
finances:— 1924 i 92 6. 1929. 1980
Paid capital.. £150,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities - . 93,532 69,461 74,262 75,384
Gentry mills, M>ne
City wharves,
fr e e holds,
mills, plant 16(2 00 14,094 18,532
Vessels .. 18,560 15,735 20,065 17,278
Book debts, etc. 55,611 38,989 56,680 71,-03
° a ments inV ltc 54,124 55,370 54,697 53,238
Stocks ’ . . 87,435 80,994 50,796
Last year stocks were reduced £14,344 and
book debts increased £14,573. The more 01
less liquid surplus (£99,903, . mcludm
stocks) was £2352 lighter than at the pre
vious balance. Fixed assets, on ff
£2760 more was spent than was wntten oh
during the 12 months, are reported m good
order and adequately insured. Neve _ >
cuts in book values may become necessaiy,
which would allow of savings in depreciation
charges; there is £54,429 of reserves avail-
able for the purpose before capital would
have to be interfered with. ,
But the market, doubtful about the re
covery of earning power pays OW £s. bu.
for the pound shares. They are backed by
net tangibles with a book value oi oa.,
of which 13s. 3d. is in surplus liquids.
Checker Cab Co. (Sydney).
f Dividends
Npt Prpf Re-
Profit, p.c." Ord. serves. Deficit.
Aug., ’26.. 2500 10 10 p.c. = 1521 979 15,758
Feb., ’27.. 4610 8 8 „ 4100 510
Aug., ’27.. 8000 Nil Nil 23,238
Aug., ’28.. 9983 Nil Nil 33,221
Feb., ’29.. 3985 Nil Nil 37,206
Feb., ’30.. 8643 Nil Nil 4j,849
It has been a sick business for the last 24
years, and continued trading has made its
condition worse. Indeed, the only thing: tin
appears to prevent liquidation is inability to
sell most of the assets at a reasonable tiguie.
The co. was formed in March, 19Le>, as an
off-shoot of Hughes Motor Service, Ltd.,
and presently bought out a competitor, tne
Blue Cab Co., for £70,000 in scrip. Soon
the field became over-crowded, competition
sharpened, fares were cut and other diflicu.-
ties strewn in the path. Whether results
have been any worse than shown depends
largely upon the adequacy or otherwise ot
the allowances for depreciation ; £8 <Ol was
so set aside last year as against £7060 tor
the preceding six months and 127,187 tor
the year before that. But even if nothing
were knocked off for depreciation the co. would
show a net profit of only £ll9 last year and
conditions have become vastly more difficult
since the close of accounts.
Now look at these figures: —
1927. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital. . £149,062 £149,213 £149,213 £149,962
Liabilities .. 39,711 17,971 9,514 14,356
Freeholds .. 71,236 66,568 66,568 74,099
Fleet and plant 59,528 31,732 19,826 12,92 g
Stocks.. .. 4,059 2,744 3,151 3,640
Book debts, etc. 4,871 6,213 0,270 I>o9o
Blue Cab shares 30,842 26,706 26,706 26,706
There are 25,000 prefs. (£3B unpaid) and
125,000 ords. On paper the cover for the
prefs. figures out at £4 3s. 4d. and for the
ords. at 12s. Bd. But that is including the
fleet and Blue Cab shares; it is very doubt-
ful whether the latter are worth anything
at all, and the fleet would not realise
more than a fraction of its book value.
The chief saleable asset is the freehold, and
there are grounds for doubting whether it is
worth its book value.
Recently pref. shareholders negotiated
with the board for the repayment of their
pref capital “at somewhat under par. But
nothing came of the move, the board being
unable to raise the necessary mortgage on
satisfactory terms. If the freehold alone
realised only half its book value, it would
provide sufficient to wipe out the debt, and
show 18s. 2d. per fully-paid £1 pref. share.
These the market price around 10s.; but,
since the validity of the rights has been
questioned recently, speculators had bettei
satisfy themselves on that point. The ords.
are difficult to sell at any price.
Under existing conditions the sale ot pro-
perty and cars is extremely difficult, the
chairman says, and adds that the board is
using the assets to the best advantage until
the time is opportune to realise. Recently
part of the co.’s property was converted
into a service station, but that is not likely
to make much difference.
Robur Tea Co., Ltd.
( -Dividends.
Net Pref Re*
Mar., Profit. 7i p.c. Ord s r
1929 25,211 9375 84 p.c. = 10,625 5211 61,874
1930 14,436 9375 Nil 5061 06 813
This is the co. which was formed in Mel-
bourne in March, 1928, to buy from the
trustees of the late R. J- Alcock the tea.
business previously carried on by James
Service and Co., including the Robur Tea
Co The price was £275,689, of which
£75,000 was in fully-paid prefs. for goodwill
—not treated as an asset herein--and the
balance cash. Paid capital is _ £250,000, half
ords. and the other half prefs The ords
are all held privately, public interest being
confined to the prefs., which carry a fixed
cumulative 74 p.c. and have priority as to
capital Also, the co.’s articles provide that
the pref. capital shall not at any time exceed
half the total share capital. .
Very little information concerning the old
business has been given out, and the ,report
and accounts tell no more than they’ have to
about the present co.’s affairs. Attei wip-
ing out preliminary exes., and satisfying
the. pref. requirements, enough was netted
in the first 12 months to show 12.6 p.c. on
ord. capital, and an 84 p.c. div. was paid.
(Continued on page 18.)


Ticklish
Times
You can t be sure of any invest-
ment these days,
Some of the oldest companies
are close to the edge.
"The ‘Wild Cat' Monthly”
doesn t know everything; but
it has a wonderful accumulation
of data and unequalled sources
of information, and it places
these at your disposal.
JULY NUMBER
NOW ON SALE
SINGLE COPY, 2/- •
PER ANNUM, 22/6.
It looks a good deal of money ; but it
may save you losing all you’ve got.
Irom Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
bydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
Perth.
Patents.— -Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griiflth, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, 77
Gastlereagh Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth
and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * sjs
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Exchange
Arranged. Geo. E. Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria
Buildings, Corner Collins and Swanston Streets, Mel-
bourne.— Advt.
*■* * #
One of the greatest single factors in favor of the
use of Pioneer Wood Pipe is its low initial cost. It
is interesting to note how this conduit is bein'*
increasingly specified for important water supply
schemes. The service it gives is unequalled for effi-
ciency and economy. It cannot corrode, it is
extremely durable, it is easily and quickly laid and
requires no expensive caulking. Fullest information
forwarded free on request to The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree
Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at Footscray
Victoria.— Advt.
# He * *
Timmsville Timber Co., Ltd., Ulong, Dorrigo
District (N.S.W.), invites inquiries for select North
Coast mountain hard and soft; woods, wholesale and
export lots. Steady supplies, graded, in sap or kiln-
dried. Electrical installation. Write or ’phone
direct, or to Sydney Office, 46 Trafalgar Street
Annandale.— Advt.
* H: ?!:
Bismuth. —We are buyers of Bismuth Concentrates
in any quantity. Write, giving particulars of
quantity available, and send samples to Elliott
Brothers, Limited, Box 494 AA, G.P.0., Sydney.
—Advt.
*!• Sjt ifc
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree.— Advt.
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company, Limited.
Founded 1886.
Assets at 31st December, 1929
£19,363,198
of which 83% was represented by
Public Securities.
llie M.xj.C. Charter is constituted to
admit of the issue of policies to meet
the necessities of every class, every a°-e
every purse. Its range of contracts & is
unsurpassed for diversity and liberality
and the fulfilment of every contract is
guaranteed by the Company's capital
and its ever-increasing assurance Funds.
CASH SURPLUS in the Ordinary
Branch for the year 1929, £693,145.
ARTHUR EEDV,
Managing Director.
Head Office: Citizens’ Building, Castiereas-b
Street and Martin Place. Sydney.
MAKE YOUR WILL!
The making of a Will and the appointment of a reliable Executor is a
matter demanding the most careful attention of every man and woman
possessing property.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED,
Acts as
TRUSTEES - EXECUTORS - ATTORNEYS - AGENTS
This old-established Company has had over 42 years’ experience in the
management of all classes of Estates. Unlike an individual, it cannot
die, and, moreover, it offers its Capital and Assets of over £1,000,000
as security for the protection of clients* interests.
Our explanatory Booklet, sent free on
request, will interest you. Write now.
J. W. BARNES. Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Ass’t Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
INSURE WITH THE
Australian General
Insurance Company Ltd.
FTRE. marine, accident,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
1 1 7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
agents wanted where not represented.
Last year, however, there was an abrupt
contraction of £10.775 in disclosed net earn-
ings, and the ords. were passed by; the
£5OOl thus remaining in the business re-
duced intangibles to £56,813. Competition
got more of an edge on it, but the chief
cause of the shrinkage in the figures was
probably the heavy initial cost of business
extensions and the development of new in-
terests. The co. has gone into the city tea-
room, business, undertaken the manufacture
of high-grade tableware and extended its
activities to N. S. Wales, where it bought
the business of the Oriental Tea Co.
All this added £75,626 to the book value
of property, plant and shares in other cos.,
which are lumped in one untidy entry:—
1929. 1930.
Paid capital £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities .. .. .. 57,551 84,404
Property, plant, shares, etc. 53,491 129 117
Stocks • 156,070 , 114,826
Book debts 41,800 39,395
Lash ... 9,623
To finance the outlay the board went to its
bankers for £7244, added £19,669 to the
amount coming to trade creditors (£77,220.
including provision for taxation, etc.) and
drew upon stocks, book debts and cash for
the balance. Thus the more or less liquid
surplus (£69,757, including stocks) was
£80,191 lighter than at the close of accounts
in 1929.
The growth of competition, the addition to
the debt and the .shrinkage in profits have
made the pref. position less attractive than
it was: last year's net earnings were over
11- times their annual requirements, and the
cover amounted to 31s. in net tangibles,
subject to any goodwill, etc., there may be
in the Oriental Co.’s accounts. At 19s. 6d.
the yield is 7.7 p.c. Much will depend upon
how the subsidiary and new departments
turn out.
Greater j. D. Williams Co. (Sydney).
. To Be- .Nomina]
Bee,, L I'ont. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
* £ £ £
1919.. 877 3} p.c. = 6,769 55 9<>i
Jno?" *H 64 10 » 18,051 713 60,634
■f®2l.. 22,394 5 „ „ 9,025 13,369 70,003
' Z’ 101 ” ” H. 282 65.822
1923.. 7,142 6i „,, 11,282 61 682
loir" ” ” 1 8 - 05 ! 2,318 64,’u00
1920.. 1(,<12 10 ~ „ 18,051 63,661
1926.. 17,426 10 „ „ 18,051 63 036
Profit on sale shares, £l5OO .. 64,536
1927.. 18.352 10 p.c. = 18,051 331 64 867
1928.. 21,211 10 „ „ 21,341 64,737
1929. . 28,144 8 „ „ 27,660 484 65,221
Profits depend mainly upon the earnings
of union Theatres, Ltd., the big operating
concern which, encouraged by rich harvests
gathered during the boom years, recently got
in £700,000 of fresh- capital, raising the total
to £1,000,000. The new money was used
to buy a string of country and suburban
theatre circuits, instal talkie equipment and
help finance the erection of costly new build-
ings.
Greater ,T. D. W. took £223,500 of the
new scrip, thus increasing its holding in
the Union Co. to £325,000 at the close of last
accounts. To do this it put out £216,523
paper, making paid capital
£.>97,-._9, and tacked £15,000 on to the mort-
gage, now £33.000. There was only £1297
•coming to sundry creditors. The balance of
the assets comprised shares in Australasian
hilms, £97,500; a theatre freehold and a
trifle of leasehold, etc., £34,798: book debts,
cash, etc., £16,166.
The lot turned in £7185 more than in the
previous term :
r, . „ 192 4. 1926. 1928. 1929.
, •• . . £11,045 £11,332 £8,468 £8,126
Dividends . . .. 14,338 10,725 17,388 24,830
Interest .. . . 2,143 2,673 3,243 3,328
Total •• . . £27,526 £24,730 £29,099 £36,284
Lxes. (£8140) took an extra £252, the net
result being 8.1 p.c. on average capital as
against 9.9 p.c. and 10.1 p.c. in the two pre-
ceding years: so a couple of points were
knocked oft the div., reducing it to 8 p.c.
ihat rate on capital as it now stands will
call for £31,762, or £3618 more than was
netted last year. But the market, doubtful
of the future of these elaborate picture-
houses, pays only 10s. or thereabouts for the
pound shares. The return at that price is
1!>.2 p.c. on ail 8 p.c. div. basis, or 9.5 p.c.
it the' rate of distribution dropped to 5 p.c.
Iho real position, oi course, is governed
by the state of affairs in the operating cos.,
and the curtain is kept drawn over their
figures. Union paid “a conservative rate of
dividend la-st year. But less will be spent
on amusements in the immediate future, and
perhaps still less in the future that is not
so immediate; already picture-theatres have
cut their admission prices, and meantime
the taxgatherer is calling louder. On the
other hand, the cos. have cut out some of
their trills, and the two big organisations—
-1 inon and Hoyt s—have ceased outbidding
each. other in the film market. Chief danger
lies in the outlay on premises, etc.; there is
-still plenty of space to let in some of them’ If
tlie outlay is excessive, only moderate returns
need be looked for; amongst other things the
weight of, the mortgages and other outside
debt will certainly make itself felt. Inci-
dentally, Union has guaranteed the div. on
£600,000. of 8 p.c. pref. money in two sub-
sidiaries, which own the “State” theatres
in Melbourne and Sydney.
New Hope for the Shale Industry.
The Broken Hill mining cos. promise to
give Australia yet another industry. Be-
cause of the high cost of generating power
with coal, they are putting in a central
Diesel-driven powei'-plaut; hence supplies of
cheap oil have become very important.
Since protective duties have greatly added to
the cost of imported fuel, the cos. have turned
attention to the rich shale-oil deposits in
the Wolgan valley and thereabouts, N. S.
Wales.
A new co., Shale Oils Investigations, Ltd.,
in which the North, South, Zinc Corp. and
Electrolytic Zinc cos. will each hold a
quarter interest, is to be registered to take
over and work these deposits. Until 1928
they were worked by the Commonwealth Oil
Corp., which wasted over half a million in
the process. Atrocious mismanagement dis-
guised as labor, transport and technical
difficulties stood in the way of the co.'s
attempt to make a profit out of the venture.
Much of the old plant is on the field, and
there is a railway line connecting the works
at Newnes with the Government main West-
ern line at Newnes Junction, though both
require reconditioning.
The old plant, which has been bought from
the mortgagee (John Fell), includes 32
retorts converted to a patent perfected by
Mr. Fell, and another 32 are to be converted.
The power station and steam-raising equip-
ment are ready for use. Mineral leases com-
prising about 10,960 acres additional have
been taken over from A. E. Broue. There is
about 17,000 tons shale at grass at the
moment, and refining will begin within a few
months, thus providing employment for some
300 men, and probably a lot more later.
The deposits are amongst the richest of
their kind in the world. In the past the
oils have given from 17 p.c. to 20 p.c. of
petrol, but under the crackling process yields
of from 63 p.c. to 85 p.c. petrol are said
to be obtainable. Output is figured at 100
tons crude oil per day to begin with.
One factor which greatly influenced the
Barrier cos. to come into the venture was
an assurance from the unions that they would
give the new eirnloyers a fair deal and a
peaceful time. There is no need to worry
about the financial and technical sides.
The Hanlon Reward leases, Jervois Range.
200 miles east-north-east of Al.ce Springs,
were recently inspected by R. J. Winters
and C. Thebon. They found the two principal
lodes to be parallel cellular formations of
silver-lead-copper ore. Both lines outcrop
persistently along the crest of the ridges, and
were traced beyond the leases north . for
three miles and south for four miles. In
order to test the values and extent of the
ore bodies in the leases the sinking of at
least four shafts to about 100 ft. each and
crosscutting is recommended. Select'd
samples from _ outcrops, shafts and dumps
went 200 oz. silver and Idwt. 2gr. gold p r
ton, lead 35 p.c. and copper 22 p.c.: but, of
course, selected samples don’t mean much.
When Colin Fraser and others inspected the
field in October last year they decided that
the deposit did not warrant large-scale oper-
ations by a co. The future of the field will
largely depend upon the results of the devel-
opment work to be undertaken.
* # * $
Guinea Austral, a Melbourne float with an
eye on New Guinea propositions, has turned
attention to far-north Queensland. A sub-
sidiary, Batavia River Gold, NX'., has been
formed to take a 12 months’ option over an
area on the Batavia River, which runs into
the Gulf about a hundred miles south of Cape
York. Capital is £6OOO in £lO shares, of
which 500 are offered ; the other 100 go to
the parent. The vendor gets £lOOO cash on
exercise of the option, and a 15 p.c. interest
in any co. promoted by the pup to work
the property. There is talk of a proved
reef going an ounce to the ton, but an expert
is to carry out further development work.
The Batavia district has been worked for
years as a hatter’s alluvial field, and has
given some good returns. It can only be
reached by lugger from Thursday Island, or
overland from Princess Charlotte Bay on the
East Coast via the Coen—an extra rough
trip. There has lately been trouble through
one Mission forbidding prospectors to go
through its reserves to the field prop r,
though it is doubtful whether it has any right
to do so. As a reefing proposition the
Batavia field obviously has its drawbacks.
* * * *
Lucknow Pups (N.S.W.) is making ready
the foundations for the battery plant, now
on the ground. Prospecting on the 125 ft,
level. No. 1 shaft, has disclosed ore heavy
with arsenical pyrites; and sampls>s show
free gold. Also, the brown vein promises
better. R. J. Winters and C. Thebon say
the development is important, and recom-
mend deepening the main shaft another
3 s 0 as ro cut the ore body which
assayed so well in a wing on the. main level
or tne present shaft.
Youanmi (W.A.) is under offer to Adel-
aide. The show was first worked by a
London-managed concern, but after a lot of
gold had been extracted without share-
holders getting any, refractory ore and high
costs settled it. There was a lot of good-
grade stuff awaiting development when the
shutters were put up. but the co. was dis-
inclined to find further capital, and an
appeal to the State Government for assist-
ance was fruitless. Lately a couple of pros-
p. cting parties have been pottering about
the show.
* * * *
Lake View and Star (W.A.) is about to
start treatment by oil flotation on a small
scale. If successful this method will gradu-
ally be extended to include all ore mined on
the co.’s properties. With the exception of
a small experimental unit established by
the Oroya Links Co., and afterwards handed
over to the School of Mines, this is the first
flotation plant to start operations on the
Ivalgeorlie Golden Mile.
* * sH *
Boulder Perseverance and a few friends
are forming a London co. to erect a plant
at Kalgoorlie to treat Perseverance and
other ores by the new bromo-cyanide pro-
cess. To do this £60,000 is wanted; the
ever-obliging State Government being asked
to contribute £lO.OOO. “A substantial re-
duction in the cost of Westralian sulphide
ore treatmuit” is put forward as an induce-
ment for it to do so.
* * * *
Changhat, one of Alluvial Tin’s most
profitable offspring, decided to increase its
nominal capital to £300.000 by the creation
of 170000 new pound shares in September
last. Funds were wanted to equip and
develop an adjoining property, but the new
scrip will not be issued until metal prices
improve. Paid capital is now £130.000. The
co. lias been a consistent profit-earner since
tlm dredge began to dig in 1928. Last year
£66,738 was netted in spite of bad times,
and four quarterly divs. of Is. each were
paid. The new area of 522 acr 's holds some
28 million yards of .631 b. dirt; it cost
Changkat £40.000. Buyers offer 21s, for
the £1 f.p. shares.
* * * *
Tin fell to its lowest price since the war
last week, when the London spot quote was
£l3O 16s. 3d. However, the restrictionists
have not vet had t’™e for a tv'oi "r>d
the curtailing of output for two of the next
three months, now being put m opprat.ua,
may change the complexion of things. Most
of the big Australian -own d producers in
Malaya have joined the ranks of restriction,
and last week the important Austral Malay
announced that it also was considering the
question of coming in.
j{* sjc sje
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
I was a, shareholder in the Perdriau
Rubber Co., holding 525 ordinary shares.
For these l was allotted 618 ordinary shares
and 111 preference in the Dtmlop-Perdriau
Rubb r Co. For income-tax purposes are the
shares in excess of my original holding bonus
shares? —7472.
That portion of the shares distributed out
of income which would have been assessable
to- shareholders if distributed by a co. not
in liquidation.is assessable under the Federal
Act. A statement showing ■ the value of
shares received should be furnished with your
income-tax return.
.Re Australian Radium Co. Have negotia-
tions with the English people been broken
offf What is the co.'s position? —7B2o.
The London negotiations for the formation
of a co. to take up Australian Radium’s
interests with those of kindred enterprises
have not been abandoned. London under-
writers are, however, sitting tisht until the
financial outlook is brighter. Latest report
is that the Australian Radium Corporation
lost £4OOO for the financial year ending July
31, 1929. “External liabilities” to that date
were just under £6090. Radium and Rare
Earths Co. was the principal creditor in
that item.
Extent of cobalt deposits in N.S.W.?
Annual production, chief uses and market
value? —7944.
Cobalt is known to occur at Port Mac-
quarie, Carcoar, Bungonia and Torrinaton,
but there has been no production since 1904.
Cobalt is used in many different forms as a
coloring agent and in electroplating, and as
a constituent of organic compounds used as
driers of oils employed in paint manufac-
ture. Latest London quotation to hand for
cobalt metal is 10s. per lb.
(1) Would N.B.W. Mines Dept, analyse
a sample of diatomaceous earth, and under
what conditions? (2) Sydney buyers of
diatomit n ? —7945.
(1) Samples of ores and minerals are
assayed free by N-.S.W. Mines Department
under conditions as set out on leaflet to be
obtained. (2) Mineral Earths, Ltd., Alex-
andria: Austral Rock Milling Co., New-
town ; McLeod and Co., Alexandria; S. Dive,
Matraville. But demand is limited.
(1) How many cos. are operating at Yer-
randcrie (N.S.W.)? (2) Production of all
cos. for last year? (3) Distance of field by
road from nearest milway station? (4)
tionf—'jtil^ 11 f° r trans P° rt to raihoay sta-
an ™ At P resent three cos. hold
pnnH;Hn„ Tw ° Fp, und F suspension of labor
, , and tlllrd is nil-watering the
fwvt ein u pn °f production to date exceeds
£2 000,000. (3) 42 miles by road from Cam-
in« 1 J ar inn For some time it: was
x_ 10s., but m 1927 it was down to 30s.
(1) Could a dredge with sand pump simi-
®„J°. t l ial ' which is used for tin-dredging
l n ®J>°u lder V river subject to heavy
flooding? (2) Would it recover g01d? —7720.
A dl 7 J er ? lon chamie] t 0 carry Off flood
paters would have to be constructed before
dredging was commenced. (2) Yes.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
S.J.GL; (1) No early improvement in
exchange can be expected. (2) About 6 p.c. (3)
Any banker would consider it.. . .E.V.D.: (1) Pros-
pects poor. (2) They can sue to recover. But they
probably would merely forfeit if you satisfied them
of your inability to pay....C.R.: (1) No. (2) No.
(3) Can’t say. Its life varies with the price of its
metal; with every fall some greater or less quantity
ot ore becomes unprofitable W.W.W.: Not for a
year at least... .A.R.; If you can afford to lose,
hang on. In other words, it’s a good gamble.
Brighto: (1) Doubtful. (2) No. (3) P00r..!;
C.A.F.; Good enough risk considering the interest
offered. If you want greater security you can un-
doubtedly get it, luff the return will be lower
1.1. A.; Not if safety is very important... .Enquirer:
(1) A solid, well-managed concern. (2) A Queens-
lander’s shares held on a Melbourne register are hot
subject to N.S.W. unemployment tax.


For economy you need the
Reserve Strength i n
Dunlop gives greater economy
because it is built up at six vital points
to withstand the roughest wear —this
building up gives Dunlop its remark-
able reserve strength.
1. The Dunlop Tread , deep—wide-
clean cut for perfect traction giving
longer life.
2. The Dunlop Cords , exclusive
super strong specially made by
Dunlop giving stronger casings,
positively insulated with heavy
rubber coating.
road shocks and perfect the casing,
4. Balanced Sidewalls , scientifically
tapered from the tread to distribute
shocks over larger areas.
5. The Rim Strip , tough, extra
cushion of rubber at base for added
protection from rim flange and bad
roads, exclusive to Dunlop.
6. The Beads , heavy high tensile steel
wire embedded in special Dunlop
bead structure, carry the extra load.
3. The Cushion Rub-
ber, non-heating, elas-
tic rubber to absorb
DUNLOP PERDRIAU RUBBER
CO. LTD.
AUSTRALIA ALL STATES
MANUFACTURERS OF
GARDEN HOSE RUBBER BOOTS
waterproof coats rubber bowls
RUBBER MATTING
AND EVERY DESCRIPTION OF RUBBER GOODS
Fit a Dunlop for re-
serve strength-there’s
a dealer near you.
*6
MURE
IN EVERY


Make secure
what you can’t
insure.
SAFE PROTECTION for your books,
papers and valuables
Fire- and Burglar-resisting Safes. Strong-
room doors, etc. List of Banks, Insurance
Offices, Government Departments, Firms and
Corporations using these safes will be supplied
by request.
Buy direct from Manufacturer.
J. L. KELLY, 455 Macaulay Road,
Kensington, Melbourne, Wl.
zig Trade Fair
GERMANY
A
THE GREATEST OF ALL TRADE FAIRS
(TWICE YEARLY.)
Autumn Fair, Incorporating Engineering and
Building Fairs, starts AUGUST 31, 1930
INQUIRIES INVITED, INFORMATION GLADLY GIVEN BY:—
LARS G. BRUNDAHL,
121 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
C. N. KEPPEL,
C/o Marcard Lund & Co., Ltd.,
Post Office Place,
Melbourne, Vic.
“Germany invites the display of Australian Primary Products
for presentation to the World’s Buyers.”
jpWrrrttif f
I 'Send
Your
Wool
ro
Utrson
Growers!
Grasp
and
Gain
the advantages
arising from
that advice.
Winchcombe, Carson
LTD,
enjoy outstanding popularity as selling brokers
because clients’ results show the benefit of the
firm’s capable work in selling the clip.
Winchcombe, Carson Ltd.,
Winchcombe House, and 89-101 Eagle St.,
Bridge St., Sydney, Brisbane.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE AUSTRALIA
THE QUALITY POLISH
KIWI
“Homfrey Beale”: A queer bush accident
occurred at the Boorooma Hotel, near Bre-
warrina (N.S.W.), some years ago. A
mounted man, holding a folded but untied
tent in front of him, was
bidding good night to
the publican. Suddenly
a strong blast of wind
ripped the outer fold of
the tent free and hurled
it forcefully into the
man’s face and round
his neck. Endeavoring
to free himself while
his horse cavorted madly,
he lost his hold of the
remainder of the tent,
which was seized by the
wind and spread out like
a sail, still further
frightening the horse.
As the publican and
others rushed to th ■
rescue, the wind bound
part of the tent round
the horse’s belly and
over the man’s head
and the remainder round
the animal’s two fore-
legs as neatly as if a
trained nurse had done
the job. The nag at-
tempted to buck, fell
heavily to its knees and
rolled over on its
side, where its frantic
struggles made rescue
difficult. The man sus-
tained injuries that kept him in Wialgett
hospital for five months, and several bottles
of embrocation were used on the steed before
it could recognise itself.
* * * *
“Wang’ : Choom was a little, stupid, lazy
runt, but because he happened to come from
the same village in Blighty as Grandad
Spiller he was the old chap’s white-haired
boy, to the disgust of young Dave, the eldest
grandson. One evening after tea, when
Grandad and the choom were deep in a con-
versation that excluded the rest of the
family, Dave’s outraged feelings got the
better of him. “Grandad,” lie said, glaring
venomously at Choom, “what’s th’ best treat-
n , l( ‘ n t , fer land what’s cropped time after
time?’ Give it a spell, er co'rse,” replied
HE STILL HAD A GRIEVANCE.
MOTORIST: “I’ve been driving six years, and this is the first accident I’ve had.”
VISTIM: “Yes, but what made you pick on me?”
Grandad. “Well, then,” retorted Dave
triumphantly, “why don’t yer write to that
place where yer came from an’ tell ’em t’
give it a bit of a spell, so’s it’ll be able to
perduce better stuff than it is doin’?” And
with another baleful glare at Choom, Dave
flung off to his bed.
* * * *
“Sammie S.”: The problem of dealing with
a neighbor’s foraying fowls was solved in a
country town not far north of Sydney just
recently. Binks owned some splendid
Black Orpingtons which were accustomed to
scratch in Jinks’s flower garden next door.
Repeated protests by Jinks were ignored.
Patience being exhausted, one day Jinks
caught an offending rooster and politely
called Binks to the fence and in silence
handed him the bird, which was the pride of
its owner’s eye. Binks carried the chook
into his wife to relate the story and
remarked: “Jinks isn’t a bad sort. He has
just handed, me the rooster of ours which he
caught in his garden. But by Jove, the bird
feels limp!” The wife’s answer has still got
the old boy wet: “So would you if you
you’d just had your neck wrung!”
* * * =1:
“G.L.”: When Bill’s bullock team bogged
in the black soil half-way from the pub he
said everything that occurred to him, but the
waggon gave an imitation of the rock of
Gibraltar. As a last resource Bill threw
himself down across the track with his head
all but under the front wheels and roared
at the leaders: “Betcha ten quid yer can’t
kill me!” That brought results. Bill rolled
over just in time.
* # * «
“Woodki”: It’s a mug’s game bandying
repartee with a magistrate. Ringer Jack
Joskins, who went on the wassail at Nar-
randera (N.S.W.) between sheds, was con-
victed of drunkenness, bad words, brawling,
resistance and damage to uniforms. “Three
months,” said the P.M. “I’ll do that on
me ’ead, y’ old blankard!” retorted Jack.
“Very well, you’ll do three more on the other
end, to get the blood back,” was the Beak’s
benevolent rejoinder.
* H! @ #
“Purple Brigadier”: More production was
earnestly desired by Bugeye Jones, who had
settled on the island of Yam with intent
to exploit the copra resources thereof. The
niggers were lazy, dishonest and given to
superstition and idolatry. The principal
industry of Yam seemed to he the pinching
of Jones’s copra so that it might be sold
to Jones. So in time Jones, and Yam, suf-
fered - from financial depression. Jones,
having little else to do, prowled about tiie
island, and one day lie found in a cave the
tomb of a priest or witcli-doctor of these
people. The full regalia of that evil native
had been laid with him. Jones had some
white paint and some red paint and some
green paint, and with these he painted him-
self in stripes all over. He then dressed
himself in the feathers, tall, hat, bone-
necklaces and other regalia of the deceased,
and, choosing a time when the niggers were
holding an evening sing-song, he strode into
their midst. He told them bluntly that
having returned from celestial regions he
was in a position to inform them that unless
they built up a pile of nicely-matured cocoa-
nuts that should reach right up to the moon,
the moon-god, who was hungry, would come
down and gobble them up. It, worked. Any
nig. who didn’t take a proper interest in
the copra industry after that was clubbed
.and eaten. When the smoke of the once-in-
six-months trading steamer appeared on the
horizon Bugeye put on his paint and feath-
ers and told the tribe to scoot for their
lives, because the pile was nowhere near
the moon, and the moon-god was coming
down to see about it. Two hours later
Jones, accompanied by 1000 tons of copra
was leaning over the rail of the steamer
looking at a small, far-away smudge—his
last glimpse of Yam. He never quite re-
gained a school-girl complexion.
;j-
“Barangkali”: Christmas Island, down in
the Indian Ocean, suffers from a yearly in-
vasion of small red crabs that come down
from the rocky hills behind the few houses
of the settlement to spawn in the ocean.
Marching in countless millions, they take a*
perfectly straight line, not deviating one inch
from the track, which is strewn with rocks,
gullies, trees and houses. Crabs which strike
the back of a house go straight up the side
and over the top. After spawning, the
return pilgrimage to the hills is conducted
in the same manner. While the migrations
are in progress the fowls of the settlement
dine exclusively on crabs, but no eggs are
eaten by the residents —the hen-fruit is too
strongly impregnated with the taste of crab,
and also, whenever an egg is opened, the
yolk shows a dark red impression of a
crab, perfect in every detail. I ha*d this part
of the story from a Christmas Island resi-
dent who looked incapable of guile.
THE DOMINANT PARTNER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They camped beside us on the track
To Cue a week or so—
Queer how your memory takes you back
lo donkey’s years ago.
An evidently Cockney pair
Were William and Ben,
" ho’d come to seek their fortunes there,
Like crowds of other men.
Yet they had one peculiar trait
I never may forget:
Their dialogue at break of day,
r I seem to hear it yet.
The same old way it always went:
First, from without the tattered tent
To weather or to lee,
A shout would rise, insistent, shrill •
“The blanky billy’s boilin’, Bill!”
And, from within, a muffied drone
Pitched in a somewhat gruffer tone,
As though it galled the speaker thus
To have to stress the obvious:
“Then mike the tea!”
Time came they faded from our kens
Beyond the hazy hills,
Along with other floating Bens
And half a hundred Bills.
They may have found the gold below
The rainbow’s foot that’s hid;
They may have made a punch, although
Twas mighty few that did.
But if they hit the target plumb
That most were doomed to miss,
I can’t but think ’twas after some
Such colloquy as this:
“I kind of like this country’s lay,
’Tis just the sort that might repay
A little bit of graft.”
This from the informative Ben
Who only waits a lead, and then
A deeper voice, more vibrant far,
Dogmatic and oracular,
A .bit assertive, too, retorts
With emphasis: “Then knap some quartz”
Or “Sink a shaft.”
Well, there was seldom twain, of course,
But one was master mind,
And never two bestrode a horse
But one must sit behind.
NOT HOPELESS YET.
Z EKIEL: What do ’ee think, Silas? Th’ bones of some pre’storic man’s been found
on old Nicky Coombes’s farm!”
SILAS: “Poor old Nicky! But chance be he’ll be able to clear ’isself at th’ enquist.”
And many a sodality
I’ve come across since then
That differs little in degree
From that of Bill and Ben.
I see again the camp-fire’s smoke
Beside that parching track;
And once again the words that woke
The hush of dawn come back.
Though wastes of withered scrub and still
I hear “The billy’s boilin’, Bill,”
In nasal Cockney key,
And echoing back across the dust,
A sort of parry to the thrust,
Still in the accent of Cockaigne,
As though it went against the grain,
To waste a valuable word
On what might fairly be inferred:
“Then mike the tea!”
N.s.w.
sfc
T. THE R.


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Day. Week.
Tariff.
Single Room and Meals .. .. 25/ - 168/-
Double Room and Meals .. .. 45/- 300/-
Single Room and Breakfast .. 15/- 100/-
Double Room and Breakfast .. 27/6 182/6
Telephone: F 4141.
Socially
f an 6
the centre of Sydney
To a perfect site “ The Australia” does full justice. Tho-
roughly modern, restfully luxurious, courteous in service,
world-famous in cuisine, yet surprisingly moderate in tariff.
THE HOTEL OF THE
COMMONWEALTH,
SYDNEY.
Capital
paid-up,
£432,100.
DFGFGHGJHGJH
Telegraphic Address:
‘Austraotel, Sydney
Illustrated
folder on
request.
This
Feilow
Needs
Meat
DFGFGHGJHGJH
..... For his size the English Bull is
the strongest of all dogs, but he can’t
thrive on bread and milk. He needs
—and must have —a meat ration.
KEN-L-RATION—the Dog Food Supreme—
is full of clean red meat. It consists of gram,
fresh vegetables, red meat (and plenty ot it)
and just the right proportion of cod liver oil.
Buy a tin today. All dealers stock it.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from 3BS
W. C. SCHWAB, P.O. Box 1821, Melbourne
tmnarujaa
“Sea Nomad” : E. W. P. Chinnery, Govern-
ment anthropologist, states that circles of
standing stone, resembling the relies left by
the Druids of ancient Britain, have been
discovered on the Sepik River, New Guinea.
I have seen several of these _ traces of an
older and more advanced civilisation. At
Angerman village is a long cleared space
HE’D GOT MR. PERKINS SUMMED UP.
“Well, Jobkins —no use neighbors quarrelling. I’ll take back all the nasty things I
said about you.”
“Yes, I know you, Perkins. You only want to get ’em back so's you can use 'em
again — hech!”
banked wdth earth three feet high. In the
centre is a circular mound about seven feet
in diameter grown on now by cocoanut-trees
and hibiscus. Like sentinels around the
mound are great splinters of stone. The
natives could tell us the name of each stone,
but they had not the haziest idea of who
put the stones there or what they symbolised.
Again, near M&langei is a huge space sur-
rounded by earth mounds —possibly the
grandstand from which dusky worshippers
watched awful rites. These mounds are now
lined thick with towering palms. In the
centre of the clearing are finger-like slabs
of stone four feet high. Moss covers the
blackened stones. Malangei village cherishes
a very curious chair. It is hewn out of a
solid log and is about three feet in diameter
and five feet high. The back is carved into
the similitude of a face, wonderfully well
proportioned, and colored. The seat is sup-
ported above the base by four well-carved
figures. But who made it, and why, Black
Brother can’t or won’t tell.
* * * *
“The Reporter”: It was well known that
he was hiding, afraid to let the light of
day in upon his nefarious transactions. _ I
dug him out —unearthed him, as one might
say—quite by accident. Cornered, lie sat
quite still, ' assuming an expression of
malignant hatred. Calm and resourceful
as ever, he had the advantage of me, for I
was a little startled. His eyes were evil, and
as they met mine he stealthily scooped out
of sight a piece of evidence that, had I been
permitted to more closely inspect it, might
have clinched the evidence regarding his
addiction to corrupted courses. I launched
at him a threat of exposure and disgrace,
but in the twinkling of an eye he leaped and
disappeared, a<nd all my efforts to find him
were unavailing. I went back to the office
with a new respect and more than a little
sympathy for trap-door spiders.
* & *
“Huffin-Guffin”: Members of the Council
have often written warning newchums of the
danger of eucalyptus-trees or their limbs
falling without warning. I’ve done it myself,
but I won’t do it again. When I was a boy
there was an old red gum-tree on the bank
of a river leaning well over the water. The
children and newcomers were frequently
warned not to fish under or near tha<t tree.
That was 50 years ago. The other day I
revisited the scenes of my boyhood, and
wandering along the river I came to the
forbidden spot. I almost instinctively drew
back. But it was quite safe. The old tree
still protects the fish underneath it. Some
kids were fishing near by. “Hey! Mister,
they called out, “that tree might fall any
time.” I could almost fancy 1 heard the
old red gum laugh!
A PROFESSIONAL OPINION.
DAVE: “You can say they’re rabbit-burrers, if you like, Dad; but
I reckon the blanky white ants have been at er.”
“Sambal”: The Man from Malaya had just
finished his story of how he and his part-
ners in a copra plantation in the Federated
States had cut labor costs to the bone by
training a troop of monkeys to
collect the matured nuts from
the palms while leaving the green
ones severely alone. We drank
that one in silence, and then the
chap who had been in the copra
line in the Paumotos changed the
subject. “Somehow,” he _ said,
“that reminds me of the time I
was buying illimo logs in the hills
behind Port Moresby in Papua.
The Sydney crowd to whom I
shipped them would only take
clean sticks 40ft. from ground to
the first branch. I used to use a
pocket sextant to get the. angle,
and then work out the height on
paper. One day busy at this I
saw an old darky watching.
Said he, ‘What name you
make ’im all this work longa
paper, taubada? More better
you give me kuku and I show you
better more quick.’ Next morn-
ing I meet his Nibs by appoint-
ment. He has a coil of fishing-
line knotted every foot or so, and
an old sugar-bag. By-and-bye we
strike a likely tree, and the _ old
cove dives into the bag and brings
out a big goanna. Putting a
couple of half-hitches of the line
round the go. in front of his hind-
legs he puts him on the trunk
of the tree and hands him a kick.
The lizard shins up the tree like
a flash, and the old cove steadies
him with the line just as he
reaches the fork. Then he reads
off the knots like as if he was cast-
ing a log and says: “He too much fif-ety
feet; that one he all right ?’ I told him
too right, and with that he hauls down the
go. hand over hand, and reckons we’d better
pass on to the next tree to be measured.” We
drank that story with bared heads.
* * * #
“Honi Pikau”: Stripped to the waist,
Hori was cutting vigorously at a fair-sized
totara-tree near the bank of the Waihou
River. “Not a bad stick, Hori,” I said,
“but there is a corker totara about half a
mile higher up.” “Yes, poss,” replied the
native earnestly, “I know that one. I had
a ko east week, but he’s too near te pank.
I ferra [fell] into te broomin’ river and
kot trowned.”
“Oxometer”: The art of bush tracking
isn’t confined to Black Brother. In 190®
three children, the oldest under 10, strayed
from a selector s
house and became
lost in the dense
scrub near Baffle
Creek (Q.). Two
days’ search con-
ducted by a dozen
whites and two
abo. trackers failed
to locate the little
wanderers. a n d
then Bill Redge-
weil happened to
camp on an adja-
cent creek with his
bullock team. Bill
called at the selec-
tor’s house, and
when told of the
lost children he
asked “What is
the eldest, a boy
or a girl?” When
told that she was
a girl he set out on
a search <of his
own, and in less
than three hours
had the youngsters
safely home and
was rounding up
his team to start
off again. Bill ex-
plained that he had
worked o n t: h e
theory that when
bushed a man
circles to the right
and a woman to
the left. He argu-
ed that the girl,
being the eldest of
the children, would
take the lead and
bear to the left,
and that was where
he looked. A few
years later Redge-
well went to the
Stanton Harcourt
diggings to assist
in the search for
the murderer of a
young girl, and by
his knowledge of
bushcraft —and of
blackfellows — # he
traced the crime
borne to the abo. tracker who was supposed
to be helping the police.
sj: !'i * *
“C.A.8.”: An eight-year-old Oessnock
(N.S.W.) boy who was recently bitten by a
death-adder and died had as a birthmark
a perfect imprint of an adder on his foot.
The fatal bite was exactly on the head of
the image. His mother had a presentiment
that her son would meet the fate which
befell him, and often sent for him when he
was out playing, to allay her fears.
* * * *
“Raleigh” : Tobacco isn’t by any means the
only smokeable plant. Almost any vegetable
whose leaves wither in autumn can be used.
I commenced my researches in that direction
at about the age of nine, assisted by savants
of my own set. After investigating the leaves
of the autumnal geranium, which was too
thick and furry, and the products of the
poplar, ash, oak and elm, we found the most
satisfactory whiff in the leaf of the common
dock, which we wrapped in tubes of news-
paper, our cigarettes being three-quarters of
an inch thick. No, we weren’t sick, though
I must put it on record that the first tobacco
cigarette I smoked—l was then 12—turned
me up inside a minute.
# # # #
“Doric”: “’Umidity?” remarked Dad, in a
reminiscent mood ; “it ain’t what it was, even
in Noo South. When me an’ the missus got
spliced it was that hot an’ muggy that when
the mob threw rice it boiled before it touched
us. An’ a nice job we ’ad pickin’ it orf of
us when we left on our ’oneymoon!”
* * *
“Avon”: Who can account for the quaint
beliefs of boyhood? As a youngster I lived
in Christchurch (M.L.), and the happy hunt-
ing-ground of all the kids of that generation
was the Port Kills—the 50-mile wide group
of mountains that backgrounds the town. It
was a tradition amongst us that somewhere
in that endless tangle of smooth rounded
slopes there was a “pigeons’ cave.” We
visioned it as a place where pigeons sat in
rows, docilely waiting for boys to grasp
their little legs and carry them home in
triumph. Many a long summer’s day was
spent in the vain hunt for the fabulous cave,
but though many of us acquired pigeons we
didn’t get them from that source. Our elders
didn’t discourage our belief, either because
they shared it or because we didn’t mention
it to them —I can’t be sure which at this late
date. But there is a Pigeon Bay and a
Pigeon Knob on Banks Peninsula, so perhaps
our legend was handed down from the
pioneers and had some foundation.
OTHER DAYS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Let the rills be deep or the furrows shallow,
Or the wheat wave high on the farmer’s
field,
I am no lover of the fields a-fallow,
I sing no song of the harvest’s yield.
For my heart still beats for the open spaces
With big gums fringing the waterways,
For lone men camping in silent places
Where I used to camp in the olden days.
I doze and dream, as the day is dying
And sunset breezes are soft and cool,
That I hear the cry of the bush birds flying
In thirsty flocks to the nearest pool,
Where billabongs are unspanned by bridges
And the track by the river winds in and
out,
Or skirts the swamps and the stony ridges
And the sandhills piled in the years of
drought.
I can see the spires of a whirlwind curling
In the dusty wake of a bullock team,
And a white tilt swells, like a sail unfurling,
As the waggon sways where the clay pans
gleam.
I hear the ring on the pole pins clinking
As the polers tarry on laggard feet;
'Tis a long, dry stage and their flanks are
shrinking
As they crawl along in the midday hea<t.
There’s a dog’s sharp bark and a muffled
bleating
As a shepherd steadies a flock of sheep,
And I catch a glimpse of the foremost fleet-
ing
While the hindmost rest where the shade is
deep.
And close at hand there’s a log-fire blazing,
While the shepherds wait till the quart-
pots boil;
With reins a-trail are their horses grazing
Where the clover spreads on the rich black
soil.
Now sounds of the bush arc all a-mingie;
Away in the distance they’re soft and low,
The bleat of the sheep and the camp gear’s
jingle,
And faint as a whisper they fade and go.
I see, as I wake, the plough and harrow
Bright yet as they lie on the fallowed field.
My board is mean and my bed is narrow.
And I turn to think on the harvest’s yield.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W
DFGFGHGJHGJH
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers' Compensation,
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WIMDSOR
[?] PARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
RICE-GROWING ON THE M.I.A.
“J.G.”: It is no sloven’s or weakling’s job.
►success or failure depends almost wholly
upon the amount of energy—physical and
mental—that a man puts into it. For the
hrst year a hundred-acre plot is ample, and
before commencing work in earnest it is a
S°°d plan to allow the land to lie fallow for
three or four months.
A team of eight draught horses is neces-
sary, and the implements and cost are (at
the moment of writing) : Four-furrow
plough, £7O; road plough, £l6; delver, £l2;
grader or smoother, £3O; cultivator, £5O;
combine seed-drill, £9O; total, £278.
September and October are the months to
sow. Rice does not need artificial manure,
and thrives equally well in the stillest clay
soil or the most friable loam. Of course, the
contour must necessarily be fairly flat, so
that when flooded the water will average the
same depth all over, and in the case of sandy
or loamy ground a clay sub-soil is essential
to prevent excessive soakage. Growing rice
is a glutton for water.
The first thing in the preparation of the
laud is a contour survey, which costs a*bout
£lO per 100 acres; this will illustrate the
rise and fall and bumps and hollows in the
land, and will enable you to decide where the
eheckbanks and ditches are to be constructed.
The ditches are made by using a single-
furrow road-plough, and throwing six or eight
furrows outwa*rds ; the delver is then dragged
through back and forth until the loose earth
is piled in neat banks on either side. . This
delver is a V-shaped wooden-isided affair
with a sharp steel nose; the sides are hinged
together and may be widened or narrowed at
will. The eheckbanks are ma«de by throwing
the furrows to the centre and the delver
pushes the earth to the crown.
After you have the banks and ditches com-
plete, and your patch laid out in five- or
ten-acre plots, bumps must be levelled down
and hollows filled up by means of the grader
or smoother. By this time your paddock
will begin to look iike an outsize Chinaman’s
ga<rden in the making.
The next job is to run the water over it
and drain off quickly. When it is dry enough
to carry the team and not clog the imple-
ments, plough, cultivate and drill in the seed,
1001 b. to 1251 b. to the acre. A variety known
as Calora has been proved most suitable and
is universally used. If the weather has been
hot and windy the land may be too dry to
germinate the seed. It will then be neces-
sary to put the water over it again and
drain off as quickly as possible.
When the plants are about four inches
high, water again, leaving it imprisoned
within the eheckbanks with the tops of plants
just showing, and as the crop grows let more
water in gradually until it is from six to
nine inches deep over the whole. Keep it
thus until within a month of harvest, which
will be April and May; then drain off, to
allow the land to dry sufficiently for the team
and harvester to enter. The amount of
water used will be approximately 5 acre-feet.
The crop needs a little attention while
growing. The flow of water must be regu-
lated and banks must be watched to pre-
vent washaways owing to yabbies boring holes.
Small flocks of sheep may be grazed on the
headlands and banks; their tramping helps
to keep the latter firm and solid.
Average cost per acre of preparing and
planting a hundred-acre plot works out as
follows: Rent. 65.; water rate, £1 17s. 6d.;
seed rice, 145.; labor (man and beast),
£2 10s ; total, £5 7s. 6d.
In 1929-30 20,079 acres were under rice
on the Murrumbidgee Irrigation areas, and
the yield was 37,000 tons, averaging S 6
busliels —the maximum yield was 212
bushels per acre. Gross returns of one sol-
dier-settler for three years amounted to
£lO,OOO.
FALLOWING A VITAL MATTER.
In the N. S. Wales wheat districts last year
the area sown for grain was 3,902,200 acres,
of which 463,000 acres failed altogether; the
yield amounted to 33,948,000 bushels, averag-
ing 8.7 bushels. The output was 30 per cent,
below the average of the preceding 10 years.
District averages werei Northern Table-
land, 20 bushels j Southern Tableland, 17.3
bushels; North-western Slopes, 15.5 bushels;
North-central Plain, 13.1 bushels; Central
Tableland, 9.6 bushels ; South-western Slope,
the same; Riverina, 9 bushels; Central
Plain, 5.5 bushels; Central-western Slope,
4.8 bushels.
Dissecting the returns, the “Agricultural
Gazette” finds that 190,800 acres were sown
on new land, 1,638,700 acres on fallowed
land, and 2,072,700 acres on stubble, the
respective productions being 5.1 bushels,
10.8 bushels and 7.3 bushels per acre. This
shows how necessary fallowing is if good
results are to be got.
LIGHT-LAND TREATMENT IN W.A.
“Mug Cocky”: Last year a neighbor of
mine in Westralia cleared and fallowed 400
acres of scrub-plain. He rolled in November;
put through the burn in February; cleaned
up the stumps and scrub-raked in March;
disc-ploughed to a depth of in June;
cultivated with the combine in September;
harrowed twice after rain, ploughed lightly
and followed with disc-drill the second week
in April, sowing graded Nabawa* 451 b. per
acre and 1201 b. super. The yield went
seven bushels. „
I had a similar piece of country, about
ISO acres in area. The scrub had been
burnt three years previously, so I ploughed
it in with a sundercut in July, 1928, and
left it untouched until June, 1929, when it
was aga«in ploughed. I intended taking a
plough over to get rid of some of the
suckers about four months back, but was
advised by an old hand to simply drill it
in, rubbish, suckers and all. I followed his
advice, using 551 b. of graded and pickled
Nabawa and 1351 b. of super, per acre. Drill-
ing wa<s completed on April 14 this year.
Now I am informed by experienced farmers
that they have never seen a better crop on
light land.
I have heard it said that ploughing just
prior to drilling sours the soil. There is
another theory that a<ir-pockets are formed
by the plough'. It would certainly appear
that this type of soil needs a lot of sweeten-
ing and compacting, and therefore does not
require the multiple workings usually advised
for so-called “sand-plain.”
IMPROVING THE SANDPATCH.
“Kooragai”; Crops grown in the sandy
bends of creeks are usually poor. Such
places can be improved so that any ordinary
crops will grow there. The first step is to
use plenty of green manure. Plough in
the foliage of shrubs and trees, also weeds
and grass and flood debris.
After a couple of months sow cowpeas,
which provide excellent fodder and enrich
the ground. Another legume, a clover-like
plant known to botanists as Melilotus offici-
nalis will change the sandpa<tch into a
useful cultivation paddock. A notable
example was shown years ago on King
Island, which, once a barren, sandy area,
was transformed by the accidental introduc-
tion of the “clover.” The seed is supposed
to have come from the stufling of some mat-
tresses that were washed ashore from a wreck.
AN INGENIOUS DIPPING DEVICE.
“Mepamga”: On a Vic. station last dip-
ping-time I saw in action a device which
does away with the necessity of shoving sheep
into the dip. It worked most satisfactorily.
My friend the station-owner invented it,
but he believes several others have been in
operation in N. S. Wales and'Queensland.
The dip was of the straiglit-swim type,
but the device would do for a circular dip.
At each end of the race, 12ft. long, leading
directly into the dip, two driving cog-wheels
taken from an old reaper and binder were
fitted to a shaft the width of the race, with
a pulley-wheel at the dip end. A low-h.p.
Auto-logger engine drove two endless chains
—also taken from the old binder. On these
chains small slats, several inches wide, were
bolted with washers, a hole being bored. into
the wood to permit the cogs of the driving
wheels meshing in the chain. The slats were
spaced jin. apart preventing the sheep’s
legs being caught. A gear-lever fitted to a
roller tightening the belt placed the auto in
motion at will. The exhaust pipe of the
engine was lengthened and fitted into a
45-gal. petrol-drum, which acted as a silencer.
The secret of the thing was to have the race
so narrow as not to permit a sheep to turn
and to keep the mechanism running slowly.
At speed the sheep would become frightened
when about to step on to the slats.
Two of us and a boy yarding up put a
thousand wethers through in less than an
hour without losing our tempers or knock-
ing the sheep about.
A BUSH WARNING.
“Kripple” : The inexperienced buyer of a
pump, circular-saw, grinder or other machine,
new or second-hand, should never set it
working without ascertaining the correct
speed at which it should be run. If this
precaution is disregarded, life or limbs may
be lost, or the machine may be wrecked or
damaged.
Find the number of revs, the machine
should make, and apply this simple rule:
Multiply the number of required revs, by
the diameter (in inches) of the pulley;
then divide by the number of revs, of engine
or other driving-shaft. The result will give
the correct diameter of pulley to drive with.
A too-fast-running grindstone is particu-
larly dangerous.
THE GERMINATION TEST.
“Noah Fraid”: I use the germination test
on seed samples prior to buying, and gener-
ally find it useful, but with pea-seed this
season I came a thud.
My method is to put 100 seeds between
sheets of well-moistened blotting-paper on an
earthenware saucer covered with a large-
sized clock glass, saucer and contents
being placed adjacent to a window with
an easterly aspect. The pea-seed I bought
looked new and bright, and gave 92 per cent,
germination by my test. Twelve bushels
were sent to the farm with instructions that
four acres be planted immediately. Result
about one plant per yard.
The germination test was repeated on the
seed, except that the shoots were grown on
for a few days. It was then discovered that
the majority of the shoots grew black on the
third day and wilted off. A re-trial, with
a dusting of dry Bordeaux powder, was
satisfactory; seed sown after this treatment
gave a good strike.
Never again will I judge the germination
test as soon as the shoots appear. I shall
plant the germinated seed in prepared soil
and watch the result before my order is
forwarded.
TREE-PLANTING,
“Hortus”: Now is the time to think about
ma ]ji n g shelter belts. Don’t pick a place
that is i ow -lying. A low-lying position will
a i ways be m ore or less damp from soakage
and a g ood man y trees will not thrive with
wet feet . Choose, if possible, a slope with
due re g a rd to the prevalent winds.
It does not matter how deep the holes are
dug, but the ground needs as much work-
ing as for a crop. The more it is worked
the quicker will be the growth. If you can
get a plough into it, all the better. Plough
as deep as top-soil will allow; harrow and
cross-harrow, and keep surface loose until
planting.
As to choice of trees, get in touch with the
superintendent of the Botanic Gardens m
the capital city of your State. He will give
you every assistance and may even be able
to supply you with the young nlants. When
the latter arrive, they should.be immediately
heeled in placed in a shady position in
a narrow trench Slant the stems against
tbe ,;f lde , trench, and piess down the
eartb about the roots. Keep moist until
planted out. They may .arrive when you are
but will keep quite well in a trench
Whether the other trees on the
place are surface-rooted or net. In my die-
trict (Armidale, N.S.W.) they are, and deep
planting has proved detrimental. Open out
(“‘Xn't maThoto UreAnoTh
«o the Ml s“ad of the roots
com f or t a bly, with a raised mound in the
bottom s i op ; n g down towards the sides,
pl a yo * s tree on the centre of this
mound a * d , oots h aug over the latter
in a n ,’ atura! posi tion. Plant a little deeper
than “nursery mark.” Don’t let roots inter-
twine> Fill J
in with fine soil slowly, and
when the roots are all covered tramp down
firmly with your foo t so that they will be
nicely set. Pour water in, cover wet ground
with more fine earth and tramp down firmly
again. Fill in remaining soil loosely a*nd
cover the surface round the stem with leaves
or dry grass, throwing some earth on top of
the latter lightly to prevent removal by wind,
Run a light fence round, or supply tree-
guards, to prevent damage by stock, and
keep the area free from weeds.
DEHORNING PAYS.
“r F Ward”: Dairy farmers would do
well to dehorn their cows and bulls. The
advan tages are many. There is less danger
eb ii dren being gored; dehorned cows can-
nob eacb o th e r much; milk tinged with
blood is practically unknown in hornless
herds, and old cows fatten up quickly after
boras are removed—they are ready
f o r tbe butcher four to six weeks earlier
is s'mphTSovhM proper
de horners are used; they cost 70s. to £5 ss.
The be st time to dehorn is from May to
August; for one thing, flies are not trouble-
some during this period. Cut the horn as
close to the skull as possible, taking a ring
of hair off with it> and pour Stockholm tar
on th e butt.
Calves should be treated when they are
a few days o ] d> Clip the hair round the
horn, rub vaseline there, and rub the
born with a stick of caustic potash until
a spot a bout the size of a sixpence is red.
p ut t he potash on the horn only; use it
spa ringl y , and keep the calf out of the
rain f ol . 10 to 14 days. The potash should
be in a tightly-corked bottle, and you must
no t handle it with hare hands.
MIX THE PIG’S DIET,
r,- _ rt . *!,„•* nria
f • only They must have a
For’a start, crush all grain
foods > but not to such an extent as to cause
(Continued on page 25.)
AT SYDNEY SHEEP SHOW—A STUDY IN EXPRESSIONS.


\\
1
m
J,
&
%
0
0
&
vm
iSitfC
t
0m
m
-«
T.a
X
X
X
SX-
X \
miih-M,
m?
m
\>
X
W*\
V'
\
1
I
B
»
'4T
m
Q
S 3
05
54!
METAL GATES
DFGFGHGJHGJH
2S»> .o
* *?£*
rts£ c
tVve %
’*'° -O e ’ v -<IV
?°" yc#>4 e V° C
. «\***
e s
v
\>°
U*
t vft
.\v^
to
C "' t ° ? ° St tt o<& *t»Y>'**
«C^fc% sS
Vv° x^
C^ Ve " oot-
Jtv^V
C*
l«
G»
c %°
C*
<*® c
f 3
«®
%o«
ECAUSE' of their all metal construction, “Cyclone” Farm Gates
are stronger than any other type of gate.
limassil The frame is one complete length °f metal pipe with no oes
driUed in it to weaken the construction or let m water.
absolutely
sheep proof.
Mr. Thomas Strickland (Glenleigh Pty. Ltd.) writes:-
Z a c k a u£°£ e ?on
still standing as good as ever.”
DFGFGHGJHGJH
The Cyclone N Gate, Style 120
(See Illustration above)
A splendid Gate for general purposes.
To fit openings:
Can be made rabbit proof at extra cost of 6d. per foot.
Note: When ordering Gates, please give exact
distance between, and thickness of posts.
manufactured only by
Cyclone Fence© Gate Co.IS*.
24 Jamieson Street, Sydney
189*191 William St., Melbourne St-* Adelaide^
COUPON
To CYCLONE FENCE & QATE CO. PTY. LTD.,
Please send me by return mail your free illustrated and priced
Catalogue of “Cyclone ” Metal Gates and Ring-Lock Fences,
Name...
Address
Bui


I
/
/
I
</
0
hu
3
«/
\l
w
p—<
-Vi
c
m
/■?
wt
\\X
\\
i
s
*}
/
\
O
v
m
Ever new
in the pleasure they impart-
the old favourite
in the scarlet and gold packet.
(xprtss
CIGAR E-TTE-S
20^16


Leather of Special
Quality
In point of comfort. . . .of
pliancy and toughness .... this
Abbey Boot, built on a speci-
ally designed last, is un-
excelled. It is made of the
finest leather, prepared most
carefully.
FITTINGS.—-F U 1 1 and half
sizes are made in three widths,
narrow, medium and wide.
Your foot is suited exactly.
LACING. The upper is
curved to the form of the instep
arch so that the boot laces
without the least strain. Com-
pletest muscle freedom is
assured.
ORDER BY POST.—State
width as well as size needed.
Ask, also, for a supply of the
correct Abbey preservative
polish (6d. per tin), or a con-
venient cleaning outfit (2/6).
Tan Willow Calf . . 57/6
Black Glace Kid . . . . 57/6
Black Box Calf . . . . 52/6
Sports catalogue post free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
FPLIB6
CO TO EUROPE
ON AN EMPRESS
OR DUCHESS STEAMER
3=
jcyw.wcgsoo:
1
1
, v'cve^e'o'J
fC \P
fA** 4 A^ c ’
?£' e e V
>** S*
c *V°w*-
'Vs
S 7- EA Me^
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed-
'\W
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
HOME for cure of ALCOHOLISM and DRUGS
(BOTH SEXES)
EstaWtehed SO “ “
THE CENTRAL MISSION INSTITUTION,
Moreland Hall, Jessie Street, Moreland, Melbourne.
TVlpnhonp: Brunswick 744.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSHRANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance , ~
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Save Your Harness
POLE
by using a
STRAP LINK
Instead of slipping the pole strap throuah tho
collar, and thus causing damage to both noise
and collar, the Pole Strap Link (patented) .s
fitted between the hames, and the pole strap
is slipped easily through.
The illustration shows Farm Hames with POLE
STRAP LINK attached for use with two role
Straps. The Pole Strap Link is attached to
the right hame by means of a connecting link,
and on the left is attached to a link of the
chain.
Price, 1/6 each.
The price of the Pole Strap Link is practically
negligible when compared with the money
saved in harness repairs.
22
POSTAGE SHOULD BE ADDED TO PRICE QUOTED.
BIGGEST HARDWARE-HOUSE IH VICTORIA
am
(D. & W. CHANDLER LTD.)
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY
FUNDERS LANE, MELBOURNE
And at Warrnambool, Bendigo, Horsham,
Ballarat and Portland.
pastiness when moistened. Give plenty of
green stuff in conjunction with' grain; it
vegetation is scarce, try lucerne-chaff mixed
with water and grain. Linseed meal should
be fed in small quantities in addition to a
bulk food, but never as a main diet.
Pollard is probably the best of by-product
foods for pigs, but it should be fed with
crushed oats or maize. Crushed barley is
the best of all cereals, especially if given
in conjunction with skim-milk. The bacon pro-
duced is firm without being too hard and dry.
Try to give your pigs some root crops.
If waste potatoes, turnips or mangels
are not available, root out some paspalum
tussocks, couch or other grasses. Turn a
pig out to graze and he will start to root for
himself, demonstrating that underground food
is a natural requirement.
WESTRALIA FOE APPLES.
“Tuart”: Though little has been written
about it, Westralia’s advance as a grower
of apples is comparable to its progress in
wheat-production. Mr. J. M. Ward, Vic.
Superintendent of Horticulture, draws
attention to it in an article published in the
.June issue of his department’s journal,
pointing out that Westralia was “the last
Australian State to become a producer of
apples,” and “as an exporting State has come
to the forefront very quickly”; in fact,
“apples from there are probably more favor-
ably known in England than those from any
other State.”
“The chief reason for success in this direc-
tion,” Mr. Ward says, “is that the growers
there had nothing to forget. Profiting by
the experience of orchardists in the older
States, they started on the right lines;
planted the varieties most suitable for shifL
ing and most favored in the overseas mar-
kets, and, further, always took the precau-
tion to See that fruit intended for export was
graded and packed in the way most approved
in the countries to which it was being sent.
In 1913 Westralia produced 331,300
bushels of apples out of a total Australian
yield of 4,692,500 bushels; in 1928-29 the
Westralian output was 1,122,700 bushels and
the Australian 5,519.000 bushels. Overseas
shipments in 1928-29 were: Westralia,
654,900 bushels; Australia, 1,611,900
bushels. Certainly Westralia had better
seasonal conditions then than t'he other
States; on the other hand, production lias
not fluctuated so much there as elsewhere
during the last 10 years.
There is plenty of good apple country
available for selection in south-west Jarrah-
land, which enjoys one of the most delight-
ful climates in the world. An observant
man may even pick up a likely area as a
free homestead farm. Of course,_ clearing
costs are pretty stiff, for the land is heavily
timbered, but loans can be got, if necessary,
from the State Agricultural Bank. For the
retired city man who would like to spend
the evening of his days in the country and
can afford to employ labor and wait six
years for a return, I doubt whether Aus-
tralia offers anything more attractive.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
I have 12 acres of typical red wheat land
in the Murray Valley ( N.S.W.) under crop.
I intend to fence it off for a horse and ram
paddock when the crop has keen, harvested.
While the crop is growing I wish to sow
down a good, well-balanced pasture of
grasses and clovers. What would he the
best mixture? The average annual rainfall
is 15 in. —7465.
It is extremely difficult _to establish and
maintain a pasture of mixed grasses and
clovers on so small a rainfall unless irri-
gation is practised. Without irrigation you
could try lucerne, 21b.; Rhodes grass, 21b.;
Wimmera rye grass, 21b. to the acre.
At what time of the year does shearing
start in different States? —7666.
Q’land begins in January or February and
continues till late in the year; W.A. shears
from the middle of June till late in Sep-
tember; N.S.W. from early July till (in the
south) December; Vic. begins in September.
What are the main provisions of the
Q’land award for drovers? —76B2.
A sheep-drover is classed as a general
(sheep) station hand and is to be paid £3
per week with keep. Cattle-drovers on the
road are to be paid not less than £4 10s.
per week while travelling with stock and
£2 ss. while travelling with' plant only.
(1) On what conditions are Crown leases
of Tasmanian button-grass land made avail-
able? (2) What can the land be used for
in its uncleared state? —7645.
(1) The rental is not less than 255. for
every 1000 acres, and the term not more
than 21 years. The lessee is required to
improve the area leased to the extent of 50s.
per 1000 acres per year from date of lease.
(2) During October, November, December
and January, cattle may be grazed on it.
Inquiries have recently been made by per-
sons interested in growing M.L. flax (Pher-
mium tenax) on land covered with button
grass. .
TJnder what conditions can an unnat-
uralised Italian hold land in Queensland
(other than mining leases) ? —7684.
(1) His first step is to make application
to any Land Commissioner or Deputy-Land
Commissioner for a certificate that he is
able to read and write from dictation such
number of words in such language as the
Minister may direct. If he passes the test,
gets a certificate and acquires a selection
he must within five years apply to become
naturalised or forfeit his title to the land.
What is the percentage of phosphoric acid
contained in flour, bran and pollard? Has
any estimate been made as to the value of
phosphoric acid exported from Australia in
this form? —7641.
Flour 0.32 per cent., equivalent to 0.131 b.
per bushel; bran 3 per cent., or 0.271 b.; and
pollard, 0.9 per cent, or o.oBlb. During the
10 years ending 1928 there was exported
from Australia 679.9 million bushels of
wheat, 4.3 million tons of flour and 10.9
million bushels of bran, pollard, etc. These
would contain 162,000 tons of phosphoric acid.
(1) What is the best way to trap water-
rats in irrigation channels? (2) What is
the average price of rat-skins?—' 7343;
(1) Use a buried trap, as in rabbiting.
Hang fish scraps from a stick just high
enough above the trap to make the rat
come right on to the trap to reach it. Fill
a pickle bottle with scraps or entrails of
any coarse fish and leave in the sunlight for
a week or more until oil exudes. Dip a rag
in this and drag it for a trail. (2) In
Melbourne clean, well-pegged fair-sized
skins average 12s. to 15s. a dozen.
Are there agricultural colleges in Tas.
which a youth aged 17 could enter? Would
he have to pass an entrance exam.? Length
of course? Fees? —7685.
There are no agricultural colleges as the
term is usually understood. There is an
agricultural high school at Scottsdale, which
has an agricultural bias, and entrance to this
school is by passing the qualifying examina-
tion. The Tas. Agricultural Department
offers annual agricultural bursaries tenable
at H'awkesbury Coll. (N.S.W.), and all the
successful candidates so far have been pupils
at the Scottsdale school.
(1) What is casein? (2) How is it
made? (3) Does Vic. produce much? (4)
Textbooks on the subject? —7613.
(1) It is milk-curd. (2) It is prepared
commercially from skim-milk or butter-milk
the “curding” being accomplished by the
addition of a dilute acid. The curd is
drained from the whey, washed with water,
dried and powdered. (3) About 6000 tons
p.a. (4) Best book we know is “Casein and
Its Industrial Application,” by Sutermeistcr.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Nipped”: Be careful to claim all author-
ised deductions when making out your
income-tax returns. I have known farmers
who failed to claim for bags, twine and wool-
packs, depreciation of machinery and plant,
stud fees and even freight rates; and an
orchardist who didn’t put in for sprays,
without which he probably would not have
had a crop.' Read carefully the printed in-
structions accompanying the forms before you
fill the latter in.
“Dimon”: When a man is off color he
doesn’t like tackling work. His horse gets
that way, too, but poor old Bowler is stuck
in the plough just the same. The harm thus
done to the seedy animal may take a long
time to mend. Give Bowler a day off; he’ll
work all the better after.
“R. E. .Ward” : Don’t think a galvanised-
iron tank is useless because there are large
holes in it. I cemented one that had a
15in. x 6in. crack by putting several thick-
nesses of paper over the hole and holding
them in position with ropes in each corrugate
until the cement had set.
“Goomarin” : For Westralians in particu-
lar. Next time you are building sheep-
yards, cowsheds or rough buildings buy a
truck load of face-cuts. They average £1
a ton, and about half the load is as good
as seconds ; none will be wasted.
“L.P.”: To build a stockyard that will
stand without spreading, it is necessary to
sink the first post at the lowest ground level
and work uphill. , „
“Grunter”: “Bendee” (B. 25/6/’3O) is
sound on pig-grazing, except when he recom-
mends “K” wire. It’s all right for small
enclosures, but too expensive and quite un-
necessary for grazing paddocks. Wire-netting
—I use 30 x 3 x 16—is all that is required.
For fixing it don’t use tie-wire; fasteners
which clip on with a special pliers are
cheap, quick and effective.
“Borer”: Old hands at duck-raising get
sexing done as soon as the little birds are
distinguishable, and the sex of all breeds
can be determined at one day old by taking
the wobbler. in one hand, breast up, and
applying gentle pressure to the vent. _ But
the safest practice for the unskilled is to
wait till the birds are about six weeks old.
If they are then held up by the neck, duck-
lets will emit an unmistakable “quack,”
drakes a harsh shrieking noise.
“Disc Harrow”: The growing of root
crops between young fruit trees forms a
welcome addition to the exchequer _ and
makes ground pay which in the ordinary
course would show nothing for seven years.
Then root crops ensure thorough cultivation,
and so long as the manure is not skimped the
soil comes out a gainer. The biggest trees
I’ve seen had swedes between them for
the first five years. Using a young orchard
to produce a crop of grain is in a different
category. The soil is left worse each year,
and the crops keep light from the young trees.
“D.H.R.”: Sheltering the milking herd is
a means of increasing supply. A few green
uprights (trees in line can be utilised) and
cross-pieces, a few diagonals, bough sides and
bark roof, plus elbow grease, are all that is
necessary. Don’t forget to face the open side
away from the windy quarter.
“Bendee”: A valuable clause included in
th e pig section of the Brisbane Agricultural
Exhibition provides for points to be deducted
when in the judge’s opinion the animal is
so excessively fat, as to impair its breeding
value. At the Sydney R.A.S. championship
ribbons have gone to sows which never had
a litter, and to boars which never served a
sow. This is, of course, defeating the objects
of the show-ring.
“Tops” - The folly of persistence in grow-
ing mutton sheep, to the neglect of those
special wool varieties which for years made
Australia mistress of the world’s wool mar-
kets, is shown by the recent warning from
London to Australian mutton and lamb pro-
ducers to refrain from forwarding further
consignments to a glutted London market,
where heavy shipments which cannot be
released may have to be destroyed. Wool can
be sold anywhere and at any time, usually
at a decent price. If, unwanted it can go into
storage without deterioration. No one, how-
ever much he may prefer his haunch slightlj
“high,” can say the same of mutton.
“Bad Australian”: Peanut-growing looks
like becoming a valuable industry, in North
Australia. There are already 38 growers in
the Territory; new settlers who have taken
un land will double the number in the com-
ing season. Last year less than 40 tons were
produced: this year 76 have been sold, and
70 more are expected to come in. The price
obtained for best large roasting varieties was
rid r»er pound. The varieties are Virginia
Bunch, China Jumbo, Large White Spanish,
Small Red and Small White /Spanish;
experts believe that the first, a large nut
introduced from Rhodesia in 1924, will prove
most profitable. It has. realised top market
price for several years.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell”- or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
man (20), two years’ exp. with sheep in
A.S.W., wants job on station, any capacity. Kefs.
—7652.
Linotype operator, fast, clean setter, wants job
anywhere in Australia or M.L. Pay own fare. —7633.
Married man (34), Sydney, returned soldier, exp.
business manager and salesman, wants job any-
where. Refs.—7639.
Motor mechanic, N.S.W., three years’ exp., wants
job town or country. Refs. —7696.
To buy books on navigation and seamanship.—77oB.
To buy “Australian Nursery Rhymes,” published
by The Bulletin. —767B.
To buy “History of Witchcraft and Demonology,”
by Summers.—76s4.
To buy' gramophone records of “Gendarmes’ Duet,”
“Twin Duet,” “Alcala,” “Judge’s Song,” “Major-
General’,') Song” and “Sir Joseph Porter’s Song.”
—7594.
Information Sought.
What is the present scale of death and
probate duties, (1) Federal, (2) N.S.W-.f—
-7563.
(1) Up to £lOOO, nil; £lOOl to £2OOO,
1 p.c.; over £2OOO, 1 p.c,; thereafter an
increase in the rate of 1-5 p.c. for every
£lOOO or part thereof in excess of £2OOO
(thus, £3OOO, 1 1-5 p.c.; £4OOO 1 2-5 p.c.,
etc.), with a maximum of 15 p.c. There
is a rebate of one-third on bequests to widow,
children or grandchildren. (2) Up to £lOOO,
nil; £lOOO to £5OOO, 2 p.c.; thereafter an
increase in the rate of I p.c. for every £lOOO
up to £10,000; then a?i additional $ per cent,
for every £2OOO up to £20,000; after that
an additional f per cent, on every £5OOO.
Exceeding £150,000, 20 per cent.
, (1) What is the minimum cost of equip-
ping a brass band with' instruments? (2)
How many performers are required? (3)
What salary would a bandmaster-teacher ex-
pect?—7s6s.
(1) About £5OO. (2) 20 to 25. (3) £4 a
week, at least, for a competent instructor,
and he would expect either a fairly remunera-
tive private teaching .practice or a decent
job in some other capacity to supplement his
band stipend.
Wliat course of study should a youth
wishing to qualify for a technical and mana-
gerial position in a N.B.W. country gasworks
undertake? —7s66.
The foundation is a good general education,
which must be followed by technical and
commercial training. The technical train-
ing is best obtained by taking a job in a
gasworks, and supplementing the knowledge
thus gained by taking trade-school courses
in mechanical engineering and plumbing,
acquiring certificates in those subjects. Com-,
mercial trailing, particularly in salesman-
ship and Book-keeping, might be acquired
through correspondence courses.
(1) Why is the President of the Common-
wealth Senate, unlike the Speaker of the
Rouse of Reps., allowed an ordinary vote,
and why is he not allowed, a casting vote?
(2) What happens in the ca.se of equal
voting in the Senate? —7s99.
So that the State which he represents may
not be deprived of his vote. To confer on
him a casting vote as well would give his
State more than its equitable representation.
(2) The “noes” have it.
What are yams, and are they to be
found in Australia? —7s9o.
Many species of Dioscorca sativa yield
tuberous roots called yams, and some of
these are to be found in Australia, the
Pacific Island and various parts of tropical
Asia.
1 have a half-plate stand camera with a
lens of 7 in. focal length, used mainly for
landscape work. I propose to use quarter
plates in this camera. (1) Can 1 obtain a
supplementary lens to unden the angle of
view. If so, at what cost? (2) Has the
use of quarter-plates in a half-plate camera
any advantages? (3) How to make a black
paint for interior of bellows and lens mounts?
(4) How to make a lens h00d? —7075.
(1) Yes, at a cost of about 7s. 6d. (2)
Saving in the cost of plates combined with a
narrower _ view angle. The lens you have is not
too long in focus for a quarter-plate camera
if landscapes are your principal subjects. (3)
Dissolve 37gr. nigrosine spirit and lOgr. Bis-
marck brown in 50min, methylated spirits,
using gentle heat. Then add loz. aniline.
Apply with a brush and dry before a fire.
(4) Most effective type is a tube that fits
over the outer edge of the lens mount.
Cut a strip of the black paper that plates
are wrapped in (ascertaining- width by ex-
periment) long enough to make four or five
turns, and fashion it into a cylinder with
photo-paste.
How to exterminate nut-wire grass in a
buffalo lawn? —74s3.
Dig it out with a ha*nd-fork, taking care to
extract all the tubers attached to the roots.
In the case .of a very large area of .lawn a
•spraying of a solution of sulphate, of
ammonia, 4oz. to 1 gallon of water, will
discourage all plant intruders without harm-
ing the couch grass.
(1) How many Italian cane-farmers are
there in Queensland? (2) What is the
population of Innisfail, and what proportion
is Italian? —7274.
(1) Can’t say. You’ll have to wait till
the next census is taken in 1933. (2) Popu-
lation of Innisfail town i.s not available,
but the estimated population of Johnstone
shire (including Innisfail) is 8700. The
proportion of Italians is high, but there
are no figures available.
(1) What is bilharziasis? (2) What
are the symptoms? (3) What is the usual
course of treatment? (4) Docs the disease
exist to any extent in Australia? —7557.
(1) It is a disease caused by worms
( Schistosomatidw) , of which there are
several species. The small immature worms
enter the system, usually through the skin
when bathing or washing, and possibly also
when drinking water to which they have
gained access. The immature worms develop
in the human body, and in their mature
state lodge in the blood vessels in the walls
of the bladder or lower intestine. Here the
female worms lay their eggs. (2) The eggs
in passing through the walls of the bladder
or bowel cause irritation and pain, and
often considerable loss of blood. (3) The
accepted treatment is the injection into _ the
veins of a solution of tartar emetic, given
in gradually increasing doses until a cure
is effected. (4) No. A considerable num-
ber of Australian soldiers contracted the
disease in Egypt and returned to Australia
with it, but these have since almost all
been cured.
(1) Fares to New Caledonia from Syd-
ney? (2) Time spent on journey? (3)
Arc passport and consular vise necessary?
(4) Would a person unable to speak French
be able to make his wants known there?
(5) Would a tourist be able to cash Com-
monwealth notes there , and, if so, at what
rate of exchange? —7lB7.
(.1) First-class, £l6 135.; second, £ll.
(2) Four days. (3) Not if the passenger
is an Australian. (4) Persons who speak
English fluently are not numerous, but there
is a British Consul. (5) Yes, at the Bank of
Indo-Chine. At current rate 115 francs to
the £, the London on Paris parity being 124.
(1) Is the xylophone of ancient origin?
(2) In what country did it originate? (3)
How is it made? (4) Is it introduced into
any classical orchestral pieces ? —-7519.
(1) Yes. (2) In early days it was
found principally among the Russians. Poles
and Tartars. (3) It is, a series of little
wooden staves, semi-cylindrical in shape and
graduated, in size, each representing a semi-
tone, resting on two, three or four wooden
bars covered with straw. In some models
the staves are grouped in two rows com-
prising naturals and accidentals respectively.
The instrument is played with two little
wooden hammers, and lias a compass of two
or three octaves. (4) In Lumbye’s “Traum-
bildern.”
A recently-ploughed golf fairway in virgin,
'medium-heavy soil on the Blue Mountains
( N.S.W ,) is to be sown with seed’. ' (1)
What’s the most suitable grass-seed mixture?
(2) Best time for sowing? (3) Any manure
or fertiliser necessary, and when to apply?
(4) Better method of growing couch-grass
—seed or sods? (5) Best time to sow? (6)
Suitable ornamental trees to divide fairway’s
and time for planting? —732l.
(1) For . the fairways, Agrostis tenuiS,
101 b.; Chewings Fescue, 81b.; Pod pratehsis,
41b.; couch. 101 b. seed per acre. (2 )
Autumn. (3) Seed should be mixed with
super., lewt. per acre, and this will also
ensure an even distribution of the seed. Seed
and super, should not be mixed more- than
24 hours prior to sowing. (4)- Seed for the
fairways and sods for the greens. (-5) Spring
for couch seed or sods. (6) Pinas insignis,
Eucalyptus calophylla, E. maideni, E. globu-
lus, E. crebra and Acacia saligna —all to bfi
planted in July.
When and how , arc fishery inspectors
appointed in N.S.W.? Age limits, qualifica-
tions and commencing salary? —7647.
The Public Service Board makes appoint-
ments as vacancies occur. Applicants, are
required to have a knowledge of fish life
and the methods and implements of capture,
as well as experience in the handling and
care of boats and internal combustion
engines. A working knowledge of byster
cultivation is also essential. Age limit is
40 years and commencing salary £240 p.a. "
(1) In what Canadian provinces are sheep
most plentiful? (2) When does the
Canadian shearing season start and end?
(3) Is shearing done by hand or machinery?
(4) What wages are shearers paid? —76l4.
(1) Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba.
(2) Generally from May to July, depending
on location to some extent. (3) By hand.
(4) No fixed rates. Wages depend on
demand for and supply of labor.
(1) Where is salt chiefly obtained com-
mercially in Australia? (2) Annual pro-
duction? (3) Is it mined or obtained bit
evaporation? —7sBB.
(1) From rock depressions on the WA.
coast and from salt lakes and natural salt
pans in W.A., S.A. and Vic. (2) S.A.
production was 91,000 tons in 1926 and
«9,000 tons in 1927—the only figures avail-
able. (3) By evaporation.
/ am a Sydney Uni. medical graduate.
What prospects have I of securing appoint-
ment with the Army Medical Corps as a
medical officer? llow are appointments made
and what arc the qualifications?— 7679.
Commissions are granted to registered
medical practitioners, medically fit for active
service, recommended for appointment by the
Deputy Director of Medical Services of the
military district in which they reside
Vacancies exist.
/ have a 26ft. raised deck yacht and wish
.to. sail from Melbourne to King Island
(fas.). Will I have to secure permission
from Vic. Navigation" Dept, or comply with
any special regulations? —76Bo.
Vessels sailing beyond the limits of a
State are subject to the Federal Navigation
Act, but pleasure yachts not carrying pas-
sengers or goods for hire have been exempted
from most of tlie requirements of that Act.
The principal requirements applicable are as
to navigation, lights and observance of col-
lision regulations. See Deputy-Director of
Navigation, Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
(1) Titles of books dealing with violin-
making? (2) Suitable Australian woods?—
7703.
(1) “Violin Making,” by Walter Mason,
and “Violin Making as It Was and Is,” by
Herman Allen. (2) There are none so far
as we know. The woods used are Swiss
pine for tops or bellies, and European maple
for backs and ribs, obtainable from A. E.
Smith, 68 Hunter-street, Sydney.
At what time should native-rose seeds be
planted in-the Port Jackson ( N.SAV.) dis-
trict? Do seeds require treatment before
planting? Any special kind of soil needed,
and do they require looking after while
growing ? —7642.
Seed should be sown as soon as it is ripe,
in November, in light sandy soil, with some
decomposed vegetation or leaf soil, imitating
as nearly as possible the sandstone ridges
where this plant is found flowering natu-
rally. Beyond this little can be done except
to see that the young seedlings do not, suffer
through dryness. The seeds should be sown
°i n j an ? as^ern aspect, so that a midday
shadow is thrown on the young, plants, but
they should have plenty of overhead light.
(1) Are radio dramas saleable in Aus-
tralia? (2) How long should they last?
(3) Rates of payment? (4) Do broadcast-
ing cos. prefer any' special type of radio
drama?—- 7643. , ;/•
(1) Yes. (2) Half an hour to one hour.
, De P on merits. (4) Sketches in
which the dialogue conveys the full storv
and action are preferred.
What special regulations exist for the
control o) speed-boats in Sydney Harbor? —
7644. . ;
Speed-boats plying, for hire are controlled
by the Motor Boat Regulations 1916, and
are not allowed to exceed 12 ni.p.h. in the
partially smooth waters of the harbor. Speed-
boats not carrying passengers are subject to
the regulations for preventing 'of collisions.
How did the dispute' between China and
Russia regarding the running' of the ' Man-
ehunan railway and Soviet propaganda in
China end? —76l7.
On Dec. 22, 1929, a protocol was signed
by Russia and China, in which Russia got
everything she asked for. The Chinese
agreed to dismiss'the Chinese director of
the China Eastern Railway, and in return
Russia agreed to appoint a new manager
and assistant manager, but reserved the
right to employ the old manager and assist-
ant in any other capacity'she saw fit. The
question of propaganda was left unsettled.
(1) What is the accepted theory to
account for the presence of gold in quartz?
(2) How icas gold deposited in alluvial
deposits? (3) What causes breaks to shift
lodes? (4) Books on this and kindred
subjects? —7s36.
(1) Gold is deposited from ascending
solutions during the period of deposition of
quartz veins, and in all probability accom-
panying granitic intrusions. (2) Alluvial
gold is due to denudation of quartz reefs
and spurs over long ,periods prior to the
formation of soil cappings. (3) Breaks in
lodes are due to earth movements-—read-
justments of the earth’s strata- (4)
“Geology Applied to Mining,” by Joseph
Edward Spun*, published by “Engineering
and Mining Journal,” U.S.A.
,(!)* Where did Wilson Barrett the actor
die. (2) How often has “ The Belle-of New
York”, been produced in Sydney, at what
theatres, and opening dates?— 76l6.
-v r .i ll London. (2) At Her Majesty’s on
May 20, 1899; Palace, Sept. 13, 1902;
Royal, June 13, 1903. and Jan. 30, 1904*
Her Majesty’s, August 17, 1907, Oct. 16
1909, March 29, 1913, July 29, 1916, and
March 30, 1930. ' .
Who ivgs Louis dc Rougcmont and for
what reason was he described as “the
greatest liar J on earth”? —76oo.
He was a Swiss who became valet to an
.Australian Governor in the ’seventies, and
was later cook on a pearling schooner. The
journal, of Stoekdale, a bushman and ex-
plorer, came into'kis possession, and with this
as a basis he. invented wild stories of adven-
ture which he swore were true. He published
an article in the “Wide World” magazine
in ,1898, and lectured on his alleged explora-
tions to London audiences. Being promptly
bowled out lie visited S’Africa as a lecturer,
billing himsqlf. as “the greatest liar on
earth.” 1 A similar tour in Australia was a
frost. De Rougemont, whose right name was
Henri Grein, died in an English workhouse
in 1921.
Districts near Brisbane where oyster
leases are available? Cost of leases and condi-
tions under which they are granted? Is the
market for oysters at Brisbane a steady one?
—7681.
Principal Q’land grounds a*re in Moreton
Bay and Sandy Strait. Most of the oyster
growing is done on foreshore lands, and
licenses to occupy areas not exceeding 30
acres in extent are issued, the fee being
£5 per annum. Vacant areas in both locali-
ties are available for license. A deposit of
£1 is required with application. New areas
are marked off from time to time at the
request of applicants. Most important condi-
tion is that the licensee shall cultivate
oysters. Fairly steady local demand and
sales are augmented by shipments to southern
States. The latter trade is irregular.
What industries receive a bounty from the
Commonwealth, and how much do they get?
—7709. ; / ‘
, For 1928-29 payments were as follows:
Iron and steel (fencing-wire, ; galvanised
sheets, wire-netting and traction-engines.).
£305,543; sulphur, £52,009 ; wine, £70i455 :
seed cotton, £64,980; cotton yarn, £38,638)
cocoa and coffee grown in Papua and New
Guinea and exported to the Commonwealth,
£1641. Total, £534.216. For further infor-
mation see page 720, “Commonwealth Year
Book,” 1929.
What is the award rate for Butter-makers
in Victoria;- hours per week and annual
holidays? —76ls.
£5 Is. per week of 48 hours. No provision
is officially made for an annual holiday, but
employers and employees have some agree-
ment on the subject.
Brief Answers.
L.P.; gee Secretary, Apprenticeship Com-
mittee, Treasury Buildings, Brisbane, and state name
of employer and boy’s age. .. . K.D.: Write Secretary,
Australian Aero Club (S.A. section), 112 King
William-street, Adelaide... .W.J.A.: Pamphlets on
“Rock Melon Culture’’ and “Water Melons’’ can lie
obtained free from N.S.W. Agricultural Department,
Sydney... .J.W.K.: Approach Angus and Robertson,
N.S.W. Bookstall Co. or Dymock’s—all Sydney... .
C. : The newly-discovered planet Pluto has.
as nearly as has been yet calculated, a radius about
seven-tenths of that of the earth A.G.W.: Direct-
ories of the countries mentioned can be consulted
at the N.S.W. Public Library, Sydney.. . .L.G.S.:
Can’t advise unless you give fuller address. .. .
D. : Chances are slender. Apply' to the various
shipping cos N.D.: (1) You can’t learn that
way. You will have to attend a school or take
lessons by post. (2) Write W. C. Penfold and Co..
88 Pitt-street, Sydney, for catalogue... .L. 8.: (1)
and (2) Write Local Govt. Department, Sydney. (3)
E. C. Bluett, 229 Castlereagh-street, Sydney. .. .
P.H.: Repeat questions, giving name and address,
and we will forward literature A. J.H.: Sorry, but
paipers, published in N.S.W. are prohibited by law
from publishing details concerning sweeps conducted
outside the State P.H.: It has no value H. 8.:
See -Buzacott and Co., Market-street, Sydney; and
Richardson Gears, Ltd., Whitehall-street, Footscray,
Vic R.A.M.F:: (1) 27th. (2) 7th. (3) London,
Calcutta, Bombay, Sydney, Montreal and Glasgow
are larger British Empire cities.. ..J.M.: Consult
prose translations by C. F. Norton and 11. F. Tozer.
.. . .C.G.H.A.8.: Certain small links have still to be
completed along the Congo River where steamers fill
the gaps, and there is a big stretch between Stanley-
ville and El Obeid yet to be railed. .. .C. 8.: Prob-
ably you refer to prescription, a title acquired from
long continued possession, but your term of resi-
dence is inadequate and the Lands Department
appears to be exercising its legal rights. The house
is attached to the land and goes with it, but prob-
ably tho department would, if applied to, allow
you to remove it if it is your separate'property',
built with your money... .R.M.C.: Call at the
American Consulate-General, 314 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne. . . .J.M. (Girgarre) : Licenses are not required
to kill kangaroos during the period of an open
season in N.S.W. Skins obtained for sale should
be taken to the nearest ,policii station for prescribed
certificate. List of districts in which there are open
seasons, now may be obtained from the Chief
Secretary’s Office, Sydney... .N.J.R.: Pentecost
Island is in the New Hebrides, and is 28 miles
long with a breadth of seven or eight miles. Some
white settler's live there. Maewo lies to the north-
ward in the same group. It is 28 miles by four,
and has no white residents... .C.E.P.: Write Divi-
sional Meteorologist, Weather Bureau, Flagstaff Hill,
Sydney... .N.D.: Yarrahapinni (“bear rolling down
a hill”), Tibooburra (“heap of granite rooks”),
Mandurama (“watering holes”), Kanimbla (“a
battlefield”) ... .E.M.K.: Home Sanitation, Ltd., 19
Bligh-street; M. Neilson and Son, 10 O’Connell-
street; and J. W, Ismay, 63 Aruy-street, Cainpsie—
all Sydney—will give quotes. If you propose build-
ing yourself, Department of Health, Macquarie-
Streef, Sydney, will send pamphlet containing work-
ing directions... .8.N.: Write R. H. Crawford, Sec.,
Queensland Newsagents’ Association, Melbourne-street,
South Brisbane, stating class of business you seek.
. ...A.8.C.: No luck with either... .A.S.: Consult
Aborigines’ Protection Board, 5 Richmond-terrace,
Sydney.. . .W.H.P.: Interest from Commonwealth
Government loans is not taxable under the N.S.W.
Unemployment Relief Act... .W.W.L.: Make bails for
each calf and keep them bailed up for about 15
minutes after they have had their drink. No
matter what other method is adopted some calves
indulge in the habit long after they have been
weaned—until perhaps they are over a year 01d....
C. 8.: Bails on a registered N.S.W. dairy must be
30 yards from the residence and 30 yards from the
dairy. Pigsties must be 00 yards from the dairy.
. ...H.H.: (1) The plants mentioned are unobtain-
able in Australia. (2) From a cultural point of
view Ho literature is published. (3) No local
markets... .R. 8.: (1) The stamp is not a postage
stamp, but the envelope with stamp attached is of
great interest to air mail enthusiasts. (2) Fred
Hagen, 184 Phillip-street, Sydney.... H.W.C. : “Loco-
motive Spark Arrestors,” by Wallace, and “Fire
Losses and Locomotive Sparke,” by Goss —Angus and
Robertson, Sydney... .A.S.W.: We know of no books
on sale dealing exclusively with electric train
driving and maintenance, but “Electric Traction,”
by Dover, and “Electric Trains,” by Dickenson, cover
the field. The N.S.W. and Vie. railway services
have compiled and issued to their employees books
of instructions, but these are not for sale....
P.P.W.: Not subject to tax....1i.C.: The importa-
tion into Australia of all parrots, including love
birds, from any part of the world is prohibited
unless the permission of the Commonwealth Health
Minister has been obtained... .W.H.: No record of
the Melbebee arriving in Melbourne in the ’seventies,
nor is a ship of that name listed in Lloyd’s
Register of Shipping. The Melmerby arrived in
Melbourne in 1870 and 1871, but the name Hutton
does not appear amongst the list of passengers....
M.C.: Cement wash inside of lathing before lining
inside of building- This will assist in protecting
against oxidisation... .N.M.G.: Facilities are afforded
to accredited amateurs for research work at the
Commonwealth Solar Observatory, Canberra. Apply
to the Director, stating qualifications and the re-
search suggested... .F.W.: The Bank of Van Dieman’s
Land went into liquidation in 1891, and its notes
have now no currency value... .C.A.A.: Tenders for
mail contracts throughout N.S.W. are called for in
the “Commonwealth Gazette” (27/6/’3O), which can
be seen at any post office in the State... .J.R.R.C.:
“The Canoe,” by R. E. Pinkerton (6s.)—Dymock’s,
Sydney.... M.R.: Write Town Clerk, Castlereagli
Municipal Council (N.5.W.)... .E.T.J.: (1) For S.A.
write Police Department, Adelaide; for W.A. write
St. John Ambulance Brigade, Hurray-street, Perth.
(2) Write Lands Department each State... .C.F.M. :
See Service Page (B. l/5/’29) .... J.M.: To preserve
super, bags wash thoroughly in a weak soda solution and
rinse out in fresh water... .H.P.: Under the Queens-
land Workers’ Compensation Act, a paid jockey is
classed as a worker employed by the club or associa-
tion at whose meeting he rides.. . .A.W.D.: Morphia
and morphine are the same. .. .DAI.: Scrape off
the. smoke grime and grease, then wash down with
warm soapy water, and finally with lime water.
Then apply two coats of paint... .C.C.: No endow-
ment may. be paid to a claimant .unless she and her
children have resided in N.S.W; for a continuous
two ’ years prior to the, date on which the claim
is made. ' Eligibility is- based, on average annual
income during 12 months prior to the claim. The
maximum inebme allowed varies according to the
peri'od for which the income is examined, owing to
tile decrease in the basic wage, on December 30, 1929.
... . M.W.C.: Peerages are occasionally directly con-
ferred on women, but most peeresses in their own
right hold their titles as the result. of inheritance.
. ...S.D.: British Society for Study of Sex Psy-
chology, 4 Bloomsbury-square, London V.A.P.:
November to April is the wet season in North Aus-
tralia . . .. ( Many others mailed.)


w®
m
%
f- S'
fh s■>!■*
r *j(
1
iS
X
essS®® 3 *
(r
isr
9F
; 5(
■:*
* v-:.'
»«***»#*>•*
fX «S
* *
S'- 1 *
3**
=5»
/
ft
r
;v*
'*BBBB
:
WERNER
:
,r Xf»
•y.vV_V
S7sa
- ; -
•5Si,
TO
DON’T
GAMBLE
WITH
VALVES
THE PHILIPS USER PLAYS NO
GAME OF CHANCE
The history of the development of the valve is the
history of Philips Laboratories—the genius that gave
the world the Penthode valve.
And now a Philips Factory is to be built in Australia,
and many Australians will participate in the manufac-
ture of these valves which are regarded as standard
throughout the world.
USE
PH
[Advt. of Philips ( Australasia ) Ltd. (Radio Dept.) Head Office and Showrooms, corner Clarence and Margaret Streets, Sydney


7he centre of Queens Lanc/s
' c/is/ingu/s/toc/ Soc/o/ Life.
Wote\
■o BRISBANE
DFGFGHGJHGJH
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Lines.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq. s
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.Q.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
BanK offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS LTD.
The World’s largest Commercial Forestry Co.
Subscribed Share Capital .. . £240,619
Bonds Subscribed exceed £3,400,000
Funds lodged with Trustees exceed . £450,000
(Including over £250,000 invested in Australian Government Securities.)
Area planted Approx. 120,000 acres
Bankers Bank of New Zealand and their Agents
Head Office ...... Kembla Building, Margaret Street, Sydney \
Sole Brokers Smith Wylie & Co., Ltd.
Branches: Throughout Australia, New Zealand and the Federated Malay States. London, Bombay,
Java, Hong Kong and Shanghai.
Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
AH meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner a
la carte from 1/6. Inclusive winter tariff, £3/13/6
weekly. Special quotations for sporting bodies, etc.
Situated right opposite Spencer Street Station, no
taxi fares; railway porter carries baggage across ii
necessary. Please write for detailed tariff card.
Carlyon’s Hotel is sufficient address.
SMOKE-OH!
HO USEII OLDER’S ENDORSEMENT.
“Gay youth will have its fling,” they say.
And truer words were never spoken.
One of them had his fling to-day,
And half my window-panes are broken.
* *
A “News” comp, supplies the right word
again:—
“The overtaxed citizen will have to scrap through
somehow.”
* ¥
“ ‘Nugget’ Smith was sent for the beer and brought
back eight bottles.” —Sydney police-court report.
Hence his pseudonym—The Welcome
Nugget.
* #
“An epidemic of sickness has caused the school
to be closed for a fortnight. Parents consider it
most unfortunate.”— “S. M. Herald.”
On the other hand the pupils consider it
:i regular break-up.
* *
“ ‘The services of a director are, of course, not
measured solely by his attendance at board meetings,’
said Sir Robert Garran, ‘but I think I should reign
*'iy directorship.’ ” — “Sun-Pictorial.”
I n giving service to the board
He spent what time he could afford.
Now counts the knight mere service vain —-
The time has pome for him to reign.
# *
“Eight members of Attorney-General Boyce’s family
are Scouts.”
These are, of course, the well-known
Boyce scouts.
STICKING UP FOR HER JACKY.
“Lazy pfeller, Jacky, mine tink ’im.”
“No pfear! Not lazy pfeller! Rouse all day, snore all night!”
“The drab black uniform frocks of the lift girls
at Australia House have been replaced by neat
brown ones.” —News item.
This is understood to be “Bull” Ryrie’s
hint to England that Australia is now out
of mourning for the Ashes.
* *
“Grimmett fulfilled an ambition when he- hit Lar-
wood for six.” —“Sunday Sun.”
But Larwood thought it was over the fence.
# *
“He sat near the edge of the tprecipice reading
the ‘Sunday Sun.’ ”—“Sunday Sun.”
And we’ll bet a bob the chasm yawned.
THE PARIAH.
He wandered in remote places to escape
his fellows. Yet always their coarse jeers
and the story of his black shame pursued him.
The very children had found out about him,
and shrieked derision as he passed by. Came
a day when he decided to end it all. An
ounce of prussic acid, a time-fuse bomb and
a plunge over the Gap settled the matter.
So perished the poor wretch who had inquired
in a crowded bar who the devil Don Brad-
man was anyhow.
D. McM.
HUBBY’S AWAKENING.
He searched his trousers-poclcets through,
Rut not a bean he yarded;
And then, and not till then, he knew
That male-bags should be guarded.
THE SLUMP AT WORK.
To Let. Suburban mansion, with large
garden. Landlord will pay cost of moving-in
exes., season ticket and weekly visit to
talkies. Rent £1 a week, or offer. Apply
u Up-keep” this paper.
Gent, willing to act as witness. Alibis
a specialty. Will swear anything—moderate
charges. Apply—“ Desperat e.”
Vacancy for Gent, refined family. No
objection whatever to drunkard. — Mrs. Gone-
bung, Killara.
For sale. Secret family formula, for set-
ting fire to houses, shops or offices. Guar-
anteed self-starter.- — I. Isaacstein.
For Sale. Pom’s hair. A rich brown.
Would make exquisite coiffure for elderly
lady.— “ Urgent.”
* *
This is the thought that always brings
Frowns to a brow oppressed with care:
The more I pay for her dashed things,
The less the woman seems to wear.
* *
TRUE HUMANITY.
Talk of kindness to animals! The chair-
man of our shire has just had the body ©f
his car painted red. It serves as a danger
signal to council employees when lie is on
the road.
* *
“The Government keeps whittling down the per-
sonnel of the R.A.N.”
Deliberately spoiling the ships for a
penn’orth of tars.
PUNTIN’ BIG.
“Gripes, these ’ere leger books are ’ard —
Well, look ’ere ! I’m out at Canterbury to
stake me all on a
moke in tlier
Maiden. ’E opens
at two ter one, so
I ’angs back
thinkin’ ’e’ll blow,
but tlier nex’ thing
I ’ears the ’ungry
cows are ’ollerin’
‘Five ter four,’ so
I puts me runnin’-
shoes on quick an’
’ops round to Ike
’Ebrew.
“‘I wanter pile
orl I got on Kit
Ivat,’ I ses. ‘Wot’s
the odds?’ ‘Evens,’
’e ses. ‘Evens !’ ses
I. ’Evens, an’ ’e
ain’t never won!’
‘Well,’ ther igger-
ant cow ses, turnin’
’is ugly map away,
‘go an’ get better’’
“See, ther squibs
don’t w a nter
betcher when yer
likely ter hit ’em
’ard. But any odds
wuz good about
this ‘moral,’ so I
dives deep inter me
kick an’ drors out
ev’ry honest brown
I’ve got an’ ’ands
it to Ike.
T . . “ ‘ ’Ere yer are,'
I ses, give us a even ’arf-dollar!’ ”
POM.
They’re winding up the company,
Though those who own it know
1 hat all their money has been spent
Trying to make it go.
PILIGO.
HISTORY FOR BEGINNERS.
Then the British collected a motley army com-
posed chiefly, of colonial troops, and landed it on the
tip of the Gallipoli Peninsula, close to the Dar-
danelles. —Erom “Modern History ” by Professors
Carlton Hayes and Parker Thomas Moon (U.S.A.)
a textbook in Vic. schools.
Volumes in my family archives yield
similar instructional passages. My great-
grandfather’s childish scribblings decorate
ilie Napoleonic Wars,” by Herr Dr. Gott-
straf, of Potsdam, which says concerning
Waterloo:—
Then the British press-gangs collected a tatter-
demalion army composed chiefly of Old Etonians,
and sent it to camp under the green leaves of the
Ardennes forest, handy to the Brussels tou'n hall,
where there was a dance on at the time.
My grandfather always swore by the
British Battles” of Abdul Pasha (Port
haid). The classiq works gives this account
of. the Crimean campaign:—
Approximately 600 savage mercenaries were
ordered to ride into the mouths of the same number
of Russian guns, from which they were blown, for
cowardice. The British soldiery were accorded this
salutary treatment at Sebastopol.
B.C.F.
“Father Petrie, who renounced the Church to marry
an actress, has now joined a monastery.”
—News item.
Though pussion sings a siren's song
There is salvation from its blight;
This cleric who once hankered wrong,
Has now become an anchorite.
* ¥
IF.
A Foresight Saga.
“Police whistles would have blown if an incident
ill Market-street yesterday morning had happened
in New York.” — “Sun.”
Similarly if Octavius P. Swonk’s great-
grandfather had been born a female or if,
being a male, he
had perished in in-
fancy, there
wouldn’t have been
any Mr. Swonk.
But Mr. Swonk's
great - grandfather
was not born a
female. Nor did he
drink his bath-
water or swallow
his comforter or
meet with any of
the other ends to
which careless in-
fants are liable.
No. He married,
and the eventual
outcome was
Swonk, who, if he
had gone in for
politics and found
a constituency to
elect him, and
dominated Parlia-
ment, might have
been the first Aus-
tralian P.M. that
has ever borne the
name Swonk.
FORGOTTEN.
He awoke and
shivered. Another
dawn. He heard
with a shiver the
icy wind moaning
in the trees. His
clothes were so pitifuL.,
of shoes with soles that had never been
watertight, shapeless trousers and a thread-
bare coat.
He stumbled forward. But only for a
few steps. As he saw the water he stopped
abruptly. He knew that he need only plunge
in, and, as with closed eyes he sank beneath
its waters, all knowledge of cold and weari-
ness would pass from him. He glanced down at
it. Would he take the plunge?. .... Yes. The
water heaved to receive his body. A moment
later a pair of anxious eyes peered across
the churning wavelets. “Dammit!” he mut-
tered, clambering reluctantly out. “I’ve for-
gotten the soap.”
R.H.
PRESS-TIME PRA YER.
The tabloid editor was bored;
There were no deaths, no murders red.
“’Tis press-time,” he complained. “0 Lord,
Give us this day our daily dread.”
* *
“Many can point to success that has been won by
praying for. it .’’—Sydney preacher. ‘ ,
Others, unfortunately, succeed by preying
for it.
STILL A WINNER.
THE MOUSE: “But he told me I was always
his first thought.”
THE CAT: “Yes, but he told me second
thoughts were best.”
“Tin openers are the only implements understood
by some Australian housewives.” —Speaker at London
Chamber of Commerce Congress.
And if a husband gets sick of tinned food
some Aussie wives are always ready to give
him a bit of tongue.
* *
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Surry Hills: Symptoms not uncommon.
Practically all murderers experience twinges
of remorse at odd times. Drink plenty of
milk. Should the desire for confession per-
sist after a couple of years, get in touch
with the sub-inspector in your district^.. .
Sol: No; as your income is approx. £5OOO
PERFECTLY RESPECTABLE IN SPITE OF IT.
FLARS’ AGENT: “Name, please?”
PROSPECTIVE CLIENT: “Emily Brown.”
AGENT: “With an ‘e’?”
CLIENT: “Yes, sir—but ’e’.s me ’usband!”
per annum, you are not, under existing law,
entitled to unemployment relief. As side-
line, suggest freelance journalism. Have you
tried Sydney City Council?.... Mother of
One: (1) So long as Willie and his father
remain fairly well matched should advise you
not to interfere. (2) A short length of
weighted hosepipe is as good as anything:
but he careful not to break the lad’s spirit.
....Parnassus: No; “My faithful fist I
clenched and donged him” is not good poetry.
H- H-
WHY DOLOR REIGNS.
“Most women talk too much to their husbands
about money matters. This is depressing to a
man tired with business worries.”- — Dorothy Dix.
Wives when addressing husbands meek,
Make about money too much fuss;
The cry of many week by week
Is all too often Dollarous.
MORE JOURNALISTIC ENTERPRISE.
World-wide interest is being taken in the
“Daily Gridiron” Knitting Championships,
which will be held on Pinchgut next month.
Two translators are working day and night
on the entries. The competitions are open
to all women and/or ladies between 75 and
95 (junior) and 95 and over (senior).
Conditions :
Senior: Sixty fathoms of trawling net, stocking
stitch'. Flying start. Toe-holds barred.
Judge: President of the Film Censorship Board.
Junior: Cosy cover for tar-mixer, purl or plain.
-Standing start. Catch-as-catchi-can.
Judge: Town Clerk Layton.
Team Event for Institutions: Set of knitted anti-
macassars for Harbor Bridge pylons.
Judge: Dr. Bradfield.
Competitors must weigh in stone-sober, with
implements and birth certificates, at Public
Weighbridge, Darling Harbor, at 5 a.m. on
date of contest. Sweepstake in connection
with events will be run under supervision of
A..1.C. and Council of Churches. Tatt/s
Club rules.
Prises.—Senior: Set of gold-mounted
battle-openers. Junior : E.-p. cocktail-
shaker. Team Event : Case of gin.
The “Daily Gridiron” anticipates close
finishes, as entries have been received from
many notable performers. These include:
Martha (“Granno”) Mix, who knitted her
way to notoriety with the first pair of
bicycle bloomers in 18S8; Sadie (“Goo
Goo”) Simp, who knitted the set of thanks-
giving stomachers presented to the Duke
of York (now H.M. the King) by the Society
of Loyal Empire Females in 1897; Annie
Asbeen, three times open-stitch champion of
the Nullarbor Plain and inventor of the
Australian all-wool crawl stroke; and Har-
riet (“Longshanks”) Haricot, international
tatting champion and Past Mistress of the
World Federation of Mitten-makers.
ANGUS O’COREN.


»
§
/
Supertwist Cord and the All Weather
Tread belong only to Goodyear Tyres.
Ask the Goodyear dealer to demonstrate
them to you, and remember
Goodyear Tyres are made in Aus-
tralia and they cost no more than
any other make.
GOOD
'S.
30-530


In the Spring time
r 0
and
/,
on
f/rarafiS
©
LP
©
Summer's golden
days ... In the
Autumn when the Leaves come
I 1 * ; J 1 ' ’*
floatincrdown ... and when
comes
okrTr,
71
mm/.
m
j
especially a cold.shivery
»* i »
I I
• i
Youil get the
Easiest Possible Start
’writk
PLUME
appotenic *
.MotorSpirit
* means''added power*
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
OP22


Gathering Cocoanuts.
■
.
m—l
•.v'
i§SBl
mm i
H
i
m
MSgS
NOUMEA
Excepti onal
opportunity for
a South Sea Holiday
is offered by the
popular twin - screw
steamer M o e r a k i,
bringing the Fiji
Islands and New
Caledonia within
easy reach and open-
ing up a glorious
scenic circuit. The
18-days’ tour em-
braces Suva, Levuka,
Lautoka and Nou-
mea at an inclusive
cost of £3l to £34.
MOERAKI
THREE
WEEKS
SUNSHINE
TOUR
A-U-S-N- &> UNION LINES
TWO SPECIAL SAILINGS: AUGUST 1 and AUGUST 22.
Reservations may be made with Union S.S. Co., or A.U.S.N. Co., at
any Australian Port.
Dr. De JONGH'S
LI«HT BROWN
COD LIVER OIL
is prepared from a blending of the purest
Norwegian Oils, by a process which does not
destroy the vitamins. It is the purest, most
palatable, most easily digested and most
speedily efficacious and has, for upwards
of 80 years, been highly recommended by the
leading medical authorities in the treatment of
Consumption, Diseases of the Throat
and Chest, Chronic Coughs
and Colds, Bronchitis,
Asthma and
&
m
ALL
WASHING
Iff A f
l
01SEKS.ES
L
HRioiiFs'oE'j^
INN ROAD. LOHjjJ.
Dr. De Jongh’s Cod
Liver Oil can be ob-
tained from high-class
Chemists and Stores.
Sole Proprietors:
ANSAR, HARFORD & CO., LTD.
182 ©RAY’S INN ROAD, LONDON, W.C. I
Beware of attempts to substitute Fraudulent Imitations
T
m
r\
m
<W
II
*
CIGARS
Tender and carefully cured, the
mellow leaf used in Club Reil
Cigars possesses the mild mellow
flavor best suited to Australian
taste. Obtainable at hotels and
tobacconists, or at address below.
ORDER BY POST.
(
10 Cigars 5/6
(Posted 6/-)
25 „ 12/-
(Posted 12/6)
50 „ 23/-
(Posted 23/9)
100 45/-
(Posted 46/-)
CRAIG AND
AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney, j
PPL 9
I
I
Poverty
Point
“Craiser”: At an Austral-Amadio con-
cert at Melbourne Town Hall: —
Young Lady ( observing that the flautist , had
changed from a treble to a bass flute) : “What’s he
do that for?” ,
Male Companion {with authority) : “Other one s
full of spit.”
“Say Bo”: Tlie production of Ken
Duffield’s revue, “Pot Luck,” at Melbourne
Tivoli constituted a speed record. The
script did not arrive till Tuesday. No cast
was engaged till Thursday. Friday saw the
first rehearsal, Saturday morning the dress.
At the matinee all went smoothly.
“Cine Ma”: A true story comes from
Poland which puts the most brilliant fancy
of Hollywood in the shade. The electrician
of a circus was sacked for forcing his
attentions on one of -a trio of girl trapezists.
Secretly he connected hidden, wires with
each of the three trapezes and in the middle
of the performance joined the circuit to the
main electricity supply. The girls dropped
to their death as if they had been smitten
with simultaneous paralysis. After survey-
ing the dramatic denouement of his plot
the assassin fled to a wood and shot himself.
“C.M.”: Thorold Waters, musical critic of
Melbourne “Sun-Pictorial,” witnessed a per-
formance of Puccini’s “Turandot” in Rome
and declares that, for singing, richness of
dressing, massing and virility of the all-
important multitude and general style, it was
beaten by the Australian premieres t in Sydney
and Melbourne. This is a fine testimonial for
the Firm, considering that the Roman show
had the advantages of the huge Teatro Reale
dell’ Opera, lately reconditioned on an
unusual scale of magnificence by Mussolini
and regarded as the finest opera house in the
world.
“Morimoto”: The Japanese have experi-
mented in Western art and music and now
Nippon’s dramatists are turning to Occi-
dental conventions of the stage. One of the
leading members of the new school is—or
was—Taken Arishima, whose play, “Death,”
has been described even by European critics
as of great dramatic worth. It is a*n orgy
of horror and gloom depicting the demise
of a writer’s wife from consumption and the
effect on her husband, who commits suicide.
The play is completely autobiographical,
down to the husband’s death, for the play-
wright subsequently fulfilled his own prophecy.
“A. Major”: In the days when Florence
Austral was just beginning to be thought
about by London managers as a possible
future opera star, Harry Higgins, governing
director at Covent Garden, came to a decision
on the subject. He sent for the lady on a
drear October day and said to her abruptly,
“Do you think you could learn ‘The Ring’
music by next May?” “Why, of course!”
said the singer, amazed, thinking it was a
lyric or a ballad. On her way back to her
lodgings she called at a music-shop and
asked for “The Ring music.” Four massive
volumes were planked down in front of her
and she realised why Higgins was allowing
her half a year for the task. But she
accomplished it, and won fame.
“S.F.”: Apparently the highbrow music-
lover wants a dash of “personality” in
his deities. Anyway, the publicity hounds
have to point out that Kubelik was in a col-
lision in the English Channel, and as the
ship was sinking rushed down to his cabin,
seized his Emperor Strad, and discovered
when he got into a boat that in his anxiety
he had forgotten to put on a lifebelt. Still,
at the Tivoli much more is expected of a
violinist. There he is never listened to with
patience unless he plays his fiddle while
walking on a tightrope or standing on his
head. In other words, he is expected to risk
his life even while doing his turn.
“Cut”: “Say Bo” (B. 9/7/’3O) falls into
common error when he ma<kes Australians of
Eve Grey, Dorothy Seacombe and Cyril
McLaglen, head-liners in Jno. Bull’s picture
industry. They were born in England,
though the ladies commenced their theatrical
careers here. was here, too, with
three or four brothers. The bloke who wrote
from Hollywood (same date) slipped when
he included Reginald Dandy (John Garrick
as he now calls himself) among his Aus-
tralians. Dandy is English.
“M G.S.”: I had been told by ads. and
critics that “All Quiet on the Western
Front” was great movie propaganda against
war, an inspiration to the peoples of the
world to have done once and for all with
this horror of military rivalry, to beat their
swords into ploughshares and confine their
competitive instincts to the peaceful fields
of commerce. I watched Paul and his
schoolmates being sooled into the ranks by
a bloodthirsty old schoolmaster; saw them
turned into the right kind of savages by a
brutal sergeant-major and drafted through in-
creasing degrees of misery into the front
line. An enemy attack was imminent.
Every stage of panic, despair and bitter dis-
illusionment was duly represented. The din
of battle rose to the greatest height of
frightfulness. The first wave of the* attack
appeared. Then I became aware of a noise
which overwhelmed even the screaming of
the blank ammunition and the offstage hang-
ing of kerosene-tins. The audience was
cheering. It had recognised the uniforms of
our gallant ex-allies, the French. It
applauded every time a Frenchman thrust
a bayonet, with effective realism, into the
body of a screaming German. It was silent
only when a German did the same thing to
a Frenchman. When the Frenchmen drove
the Germans out of their trenches it became
almost inarticulate witli martial rejoicing.
It was, of course, mainly the younger gen-
eration which applauded. So much for art
as a means of spreading pacifism.
“L.H.P.”: Australian playgoers enjoyed
many dramatised versions of Conan Doyle’s
novels. Julius Knight scored in “Brigadier
Gerard”; Harry Plimmer created Sherlock
Holmes here (though the role is best associ-
ated with Cuyler Hastings), and Alf Woods
used to put up a stage version of “Rodney
Stone” under the title of “Boy Jim,” and
revelled in the boxing bouts.
“Captain Coddington”: “Lond” (B.
2/7/’3O) is astray in dates or records. W.
Louis Bradfield was the comedian in “In
Town” in Australia, although I doubt if
he could be justly described as “little.” . But
he died in 1919, aged 53. It was his son
who recently appeared in Frank Harvey s
“Cape Forlorn.” No wonder “Lond”, spoke
about “carrying his age wonderfully.”
“M.G.”: No less than five British films are
on view in Melbourne at time of writing
and three of them at long-run houses.
“Rookery Nook” is drawing good money at
the Athenaeum, “Splinter's” is at the Palais,
St. Kilda, the Titanic is sinking thrice daily
in “Atlantic” at the Majestic, and “A Pave-
ment Butterfly” is fluttering at the Strand.
“At the Villa Rose” is on at the Melba.
This probably constitutes a post-war record.
“Blah”: There’s room for hope that the
talkie will improve the ideals of Hollywood.
Already the SOS has gone out for new and
better talkie plots and dialogues. The talki-
sation of old silent films has gone as far as
it is likely to —the job has been found to be
difficult and the results unsatisfactory—and
the leading producers, including the Fairbanks
pair, after dropping tliahsands of dahlers on
talkies that flopped or that were abandoned
when half-way through the shooting, have
drastically revised all their notions of the
business. Cecil B. de Mille says the talkie
has put the elaborately spectacular movie
out of business, and all unite in demanding
clever plots and good dialogue.
“E. String”: So many people even in Aus-
tralia are filled with false hopes when they
find a fiddle that has a Strad label in it that
it may be worth while to tell of the means by
which the majority of the authentic Stradi-
vari, Guarneri, Bergonzi and Amati instru-
ments were collected and identified. It is
a variant of the Arabian legend of Aladdin
and his lamp. An old chap named Luigi |
Tarisio, a carpenter by trade and a fiddler
at fairs and dances by predilection —as
events proved, he was a consummately good
judge of fiddles —set out on a pilgrimage of
all the countries of southern Europe in 1840.
He carried with him a stock of shiny new
violins, which he sold, taking old ones in
part payment. He would pretend to play
an old instrument, rasping it discordantly.
Then, taking one of his new fiddles, he
would say, “Now this is how a violin should
sound!” He sold a few of the least meri-
torious of his gleanings to Jean Vuillame of
Paris. When Tarisio died at Milan in 1854
Vuillame secured the remainder of his har-
vest and the clue to the whereabouts of the
world’s very finest violin —the Stradivarius
“Messiah,” which he purchased. . The “Mes-
siah” is now the property of Hill and Co.,
of London, and it cannot be bought.
“Say Bo”: Percy Grainger, the Brighton
(Vic.) boy who went to America and won
international fame as a composer, will prob-
ably be back again next year. On his previous
visit he gave local conductors, a lesson in
enterprise by getting some of his own works
performed in Melbourne .with an orchestra
nearly double the usual size. He used four
grand pianos, a vocalist singing nonsense
syllables and a variety of instruments not
hitherto employed. Some of the critics
praised the result and some said it was only
noise, but it had the effect of making a few
musical directors realise that on the tech-
nical side they had something to learn.
The Palette
“F.S.”: The Embryos, whose show in Mel-
bourne was recently commented on by The
Bulletin, sold out to the last frame, while
fine painters who have devoted a lifetime
to the mastering of their business have
scarcely earned enough to pay gallery rent,
gome of the Germs are undoubtedly talented,
but their performance was of the flashy order
of an infant prodigy playing a Bach sonata
with all the emphasis in the wrong place.
The result will probably be that the Starters
will come to the conclusion that they
have fully arrived and will continue to paint
worse and worse until they become full
blown Futurists or Modernists —that is to
say, grown-ups who deliberately try to paint
like children. In fact, one critic has already
perceived and welcomed this tendency in the
Embryos. So the lesson Whistler taught his
generation has to be learned all over again.
The fruits, literally speaking and other-
wise, of Hans Heysen’s attacks upon 34 can-
vases are gathered in Sydney Grosvenor Gal-
leries. It is a lovely exhibition. There are
some grapes, some tulips, some red gums
in the Flinders Ranges, a blue gum, a scat-
tering of stock in back paddocks, a farm out-
building on a frosty morning, purple tops of
Central Australian hills, sunshine in a
quarry and fissures in barren red earth that
make up a rare collection of varied beauty.
Three of the most highly priced items —
including one bought by Wilhelm Backhaus —
did not greatly impress present observer,
except that the painting of them is excellent.
They are masses of thick flowers, inexpress-
ibly old-fashioned in arrangement. With the
tulips, which decline to be massed like these
dahlias and full roses, there is a natural
note in design, as there is in the fragments
of bush he paints so well. H'e is not an
imaginative painter, but he gives dignity
to the job of reporter.
“F.S.”: The Soviet has gone a step further
than Australian union leaders, who only com-
pel their followers to cough up subscrip-
tions to Labor newspapers. Under a recent
decree the Russian working man was ordered
to contribute a fixed sum for the purchase of
works of art, otherwise, owing to the absence
of wealthy art patrons and a prosperous
intelligentsia , “Soviet art and artists are
doomed.” Unfortunately, the response has
not been encouraging, the proletarian worker
frankly declaring that he has not the slightest
interest in works of art, unless they take the
form of table decorations, such as a plate
of sausages or a loaf of bread. Evidently a
thirst for culture cannot be produced by
political action. It is still a matter of
biology.


Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH;
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £ 529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares ,. 703,125
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 8,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1S62.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Fire Insurancesoffocted 011 ail classes of
— Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks on Wool, Merchandise,
1 Hulls of Vessels, Freights.
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
%%
ARE YOU A
Mr. MICAWBER?
Waiting for Better Times
won’t make you prosperous,
iou’ve got to “go after”
business if you want it.
<s*s*s*s
START NOW!
ADVERTISE
YOUR GOODS
AND SERVICES
IN
fhelßrisbanedourier
Queensland’s
Leading & Largest
Newspaper,
Published by :
THE BRISBANE NEWSPAPER CO.,
LTD.,
Queen-street, Brisbane.
’Phone 82991.
Sydney Representative :
Robert D. Fisher, 74 Pitt-street.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative :
L. S. Marks, The Argus Bldg.,
Elizabeth and Latrobe streets.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
Y\ r .C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE PATRIOT
IPIRECT MEDIUM Ig WOMEN 1
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HTNCHCLIFFE.
2 HUNTER STREET.
NOW- THE WORLD
IP
WH
N
£
Hon
m
ovU
NOW to the veal business—seeing the
world! Canada, U.S.A., Europe.
Through hookings aind plans made in
advance with the Union Steam Ship
Company give a novel sense of ease and
comfort to overseas travel.
Offices : Sydney and Melbourne.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN & UNION LINES
■t3
'TJ
BURNS PHILP TOURS
THE GARDEN OF THE EAST
SMOOTH WATER VOYAGE
WHICH IS A HOLIDAY IN ITSELF:
Regular monthly sailings by the
popular vessels S.S. “MARELLA,”
7500 tons; M.V. “MALABAR,” 5000
tons.
Return Fare from Sydney,
£Bl
BURNS, PHILP & 00., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and
Adelaide.
Travel in Picture, Verse and Story.
Read the “B.P. Magazine,” 1/- a copy
All Newsagents and Booksellers.
BURNS, PHILP &-C?.L T . D
7 BRIDGE! ST, SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
Witb which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
JSSIn
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150.000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
Genera! Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
588 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
PROVED !
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
15,000 tons, Aug. 2
*Nestor . . . 15,000 „ Sept. 15
fCeramic . . 18,500 ,, Oct. 20
*Ascanius . . 11,000 ,, Nov. 24.
•First class only.
tCabin class. J First and third class.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
■Joint
Agents
SPLENDID CHEAP SERVICE
Via Suez Canal.
FAST OIL BURNERS
Fares to London from £38.
To Colombo from £22.
Special Excursion Return Tickets to
Colombo issued from Sept, to Feb., £32
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
SPACIOUS DECKS—DECK CABINS—EXCELLENT
MENU—CINEMA—DANCE MUSIC REPRODUCED
WITH ELECTRIC AMPLIFIERS—
CANVAS SWIMMING BATII
Freight Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Joint Passenger Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Tel.: B6701. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.,
Tel.: B7512. 247 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parked
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as ner daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUdDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Simai, Sydney.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CEUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISEAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAD ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNED CDUB
N.Z. GODF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. PODO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World’* Leading;
Advertising; Agencies.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to Jcnow
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
Register
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUN WICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
I for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
3C Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.


FOSTER’S FAMOUS FLOWER SEEDS
Produce Flowers for Exhibition.
CARNATION. CHABAOD GIANT. Best Carna-
tion from seed.
STOCK. MAMMOTH PYRAMIDAL. Double,
globular flowers, delightful colors.
ANTIRRHINUM. MAJESTIC. The great advance ;
exquisite colors.
1/- packet.
FOSTERS, LTD., Seed Growers, Sydney.
“THE BARRIER MINER”
is classed A 1 by the highest authori-
ties for quantities circulation, quality
circulation and profitable circulation.
The one and only newspaper read by
everybody west of the Darling.
All the wise men of the East know
the best medium for the West.
Save Money
on Tuns/
A
0
n
j
OU can easily avoid
costly tyre trouble
by keeping your tyres
properly inflated. But
you must use an accu-
rate, durable gauge. The
Schrader Gauge is such
a gauge.
Buy a Schrader Gauge,
from any tyre or acces-
sory supplier. Keep it
always in your car. Use it
regularly at least once a
week and before long
trips. It will save its small
cost in increased tyre
service many times over.
Schrader Gauges are
sturdy, dependable, easy
to use, easy to read.
Be Sure It’s a
SCHRADER
Va
m
m
Look For
The Name
cfarader
.Makers of Pneumatic
Valves Since 1844
Tyre Valves
Tyre Gauges
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE .. .. .. 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
.slo!@®teT
AUCKLAND, N.Z. (Acc. 160)
“Only UNLICENSED Hotel-de-Luxe”
C.T., P.S., and Auto. Ass’ns’ House.
Days, 15/- (two or more, 14/-) ; Weekly, 84/-
“Special” rooms (h. and e. water), 16/- or 98/-
DFGFGHGJHGJH
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak without Notes, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
EUROPE’S
BEST RADIO
SHOW
tt*D/ 0
R
H
%
Zt*s
&
BETWEEN September 19
and 27 the finest radio
show yet will be in progress
in London. Whether you
are a trader or just a radio
enthusiast you should en-
deavor to see this wonderful
display of modern radio
equipment.
Full details sent to authorised
dealers on request to the organisers
Organised by
THE HAD 10
Bhe NATIONAL
RADIO EXHIBITION
O L Y M PIA LO N D O N,
E N G L A N D
September 19 to 27
MANUFACTURERS’ ASSOCIATION, Astor House, Aldwych, London, W.C
M 49
TV/lEN! Wear All-Wool Socks
for Comfort and Health.
oik! Wfc 'dootSre tel'fus that'colj'damu feat are atoost
certain to pull one’s health down—you cannot do justice to
yourself in work or play unless the feet are warm and dry.
Safeguard your health by wearing “Rameno Brand Merino
Knit” Socks, which are knitted from pure Australian Merino
Wool to keep’chills away.
ei\
'Always Fit
DFGFGHGJHGJH
Nothing rests
the feet like
wool—wear
RAMENO
All-Wool
Ribbed Socks.
Stocked
by all
Leading
Mercers.
SAFETY FIRST!
ASK DEFINITELY FOR
RAMENO
sA[erino ~%Cnit
PURE WOOL SOCKS
LOOK WELL—FIT WELL —WEAR WELL—WASH WELL.
“Eamcno” Brand “Merino-Knit” Socks are beautifully
soft and snug-fitting, giving luxurious foot comfort right
up to the last days of wear. There are no rough edges
to chafe the feet, and “RAMENO” Socks have specially
strengthened heels and toes to assure long wear and
economy.
The Exclusive Production of the
MERINO WOOLLEN MILLS PTY., LTD.
The Specialist Manufacturing House for Men s High-Grade
CARDIGANS, PULLOVERS, SOCKS, GOLF STOCKINGS
SHADOW SHOWS.
“The Passion Play,” which has begun an
extended run at Melbourne Auditorium,
makes a magnificent scenario. There is the |
Star, adored by his followers, betrayed by
the villain, pursued and arrested by the
police, the trial scene with the necessary mis-
carriage of justice, the scourging with its
appeal to the audience’s sadistic side, and
the final poignant tragedy relieved by a
happy ending. No other religion has such
a dramatic core.
The picture was photographed at Frei-
burg, where the Passion has been played
every 10 years by the local peasantry for
the past three centuries. The brothers Fass-
nacht take the rbles of Christ and Judas,
characters which have been in the family for
» century. Railway porters, newsboys and
taxi-drivers in Freiburg s wear their hair
long in order to be ready to take their part
in the play. This side of the picture is
as interesting as the performance itlself,
which is played with tremendous intensity
i and remarkable realism, considering how
fixed by long usage every action and emo-
tion in it must be.
The casting is magnificent. It is almost
as if the population of Freiburg had grown
to look Semitic through long taking ot
Hebrew rbles. •
* * *
Sydney Capitol put on a bill the other day
which exemplified some of the differences
between British and American talkies. “At
the Villa Rose” is a mystery-play founded
on Mason’s novel. The dialogue's slangless,
no one gets tight, and all, including the mur-
derer, have civilised manners. But the
photography is bad, and the vocalisation is
rotten. Half-way through the show which
this critic attended the projectionist appa-
rently felt that something was wrong, and
the murmurings of Austin Trevor (Hanaud
the French ’tec) and Francis Lister
(Weathermill) became raucously loud; but
others (particularly Nora Baring, who
played Celia, and Violet Farebrother as the I
sinister maid) remained inaudible. In this,
as in so many British productions, the act-
ing is very actorish, and there are no
character parts.
* *
“In “Second Marriage,” at Melbourne
Palace, Conrad Nagel is a materialistic
widower who re-marries. He learns that a
son by his first union is dying in Switzerland,
and leaves to visit the invalid, though his
new wife is on the point of presenting him
with a further issue of his loins. He returns
to a frigid mate who is flirting with the
idea of taking a lover as a salve to her
injured vanity. When the moment for the
elopement comes, however, the lover shows
the same indifference to her offspring as her
husband has done. He wants her for her-
self alone. At this point Lila Lee loses the
spectator’s sympathy—chiefly because she is
somewhat wooden-faced and gives a stereo-
typed display of emotion. Nevertheless, the
situation has valuable moral lessons for her.
She decides that her husband’s behavior was
natural and forgivable after all, and the
needs of copybook morality are served.
# * ¥
“Roadhouse Nights,” a Paramount crook
talkie, began its Sydney career at the New
H’aymarket. It is another rotten advt. for
prohibition. Fred Kohler, as a slouching
gang-leader with a permanent scowl, makes
his living out of rum-running, and most of
the action takes place in a pub where every
body boozes. A couple of Chicago pressmen
start investigating the rum industry, and
one gets murdered. The other—well played by
Charles Ruggles—discovers in the gangster’s
girl the vanished idol of his romantic youth.
Satanic villainy is defeated by fatuous virtue
in the shape of Willie, the press-boy in
question.
The show has one really exciting moment.
Willie, feigning drunkenness, rings up liis
editor in the very telephone box in which his
colleague was shot while similarly occupied.
The gangster stands by ready to shoot if a
compromising word is uttered, unaware that
the maundering speaker is tapping an appeal
for help in Morse on the receiver with his
ring. It is a well-cast thriller, with some
acceptable comedy to mitigate the horrors.
* * *
“So Long Letty,” at Melbourne State, only
takes a hint or two from the original.
Instead of the ballets being- irrelevant inter-
ruptions they are characters more or less
concerned with the plot, and when Charlotte
Greenwood, who is the leading lady, sings,
J she has plausible reasons for doing so,
though one of them isn’t the quality of her
voice. She fills the bill and more than fills
the screen. Her pronounced personality
would never be tolerated on the legitimate
stage, where the musicomedy heroine is in-
variably fluffy and slight. Charlotte is a
hefty damsel, with magnificent limbs, who
ma«kes the men in the vicinity look as if
they belonged to a third sex.
# * *
“The Three Sisters” (Fox), though an
all-lugubrious Mother talkie, is never un-
bearable, and often exciting. One daughter
stabs the swindling Pasquale on her wed-
ding day, and has to flee from Italy with
her husband to the U.S.A. Another marries
well but disappears, and the third weds an
officer (who is killed in action), and then
dies leaving a baby. Ruined and despondent,
the mother takes her grandchild to Rome
and gets a job as dishwasher in a restau-
rant. The baby is seized by its father’s
relations, and she is sacked for dropping
plates.
Prospects appear hopeless when her Ameri-
canised son-in-law and his wife (now rich),
the other daughter and her husband (also
rich), and Pasquale all happen to meet out-
side the restaurant from which she is about
to depart in disgrace. Pasquale is violently
assaulted by Tony of New York (Tom
Patricola) in collaboration with the other
son-in-law (amusingly played by Paul Por-
casi), and all sit down to eat in exuberant
spirits.
Not much of a story, perhaps, but it
enables Louise Dresser to do work at which
she excels. Of all the film mothers who
have made those with what Aldous Huxley
calls “hearts of liogswash” weep, and pos-
sessors of hearts of another calibre blas-
pheme, she is the queen.


70% of Australian golfers
say. . Spalding equipment
is the best ”
Breath-catching P iay to a
critical gallery . . . confident driving
. . . faultless approach shots . . . putting
that shatters the tense atmosphere in a
murmur of spontaneous admiration . . .
Spalding offers the best for championship
play and for everyday golf —the best for
all golfers under all conditions.
This is realised throughout the Com-
monwealth. In letters from all over
Australia—7o% of golfers say, “Spalding
equipment is the best.”
Kro-Flite reduces golf expenses
and lowers handicaps
Because of its tough vulcanised cover,
Kro-Flite will outlast any ball made. It
will reduce your golf expenses.
The flight-seeking energy imprisoned in
its semi-liquid rubber core energy alive
with the power of 1,200 lbs. pressure to
the square inch —gives it great distance.
Because of its scientific balance and re-
siliency, Kro-Flite gives you perfect control.
It will lower your handicap.
A ball with individuality
Its high visibility colour markings make
Kro-Flite Mesh Multi-Dot look larger,
easier to hit. There is always a dot for
concentration behind the ball —look there
when hitting, and avoid topped shots.
And Multi - Dot is easily recognisable.
Choose your individual colour marking,
red, blue, green, or black.
For Australian Championship con-
ditions giving phenomenal distance
Spalding makes the “Par” price 3/6-
For good honest service—the “Sunshine”
—price 2/6.
Spalding golf equipment—at all sports
stores and all golf professionals. 54
years of experience and good faith have
placed Spalding at the forefront of sport-
ing equipment manufacturers.
A. G. Spalding & Bros.
(N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd.
352 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
y '' '! . '
m
m
i
1
m
m
in
rQ
- i}
I iaP
sdl
:r ;; :
■
* ?
Wtxd,
5
11111 MmMBI
■ n
idl
■ i;
■MM
.
HH
s? &
:
hh
.
• iaKW*'
*
■ : ’
r l
9Hi
■BE*
•• ••...; •:, . ■■..,/■ .
■mkik -
igl&: igPr
a
ms
■Sfc
1 If
■: >■
?k' *' '" T 1
It %
An Unconditional
Guarantee
We absolutely guarantee
replacement of any Kro-
Flite Ball (whether Plain
or Multi-Dot) that is cut
through or becomes un-
playable for any cause
whatsoever in 72 .holes
of play.
THE DRIVE : : r :
At the top of the swing the weight should be well forward on the ball
of the feet, mainly on right foot. Hands well under dub, with left hand
in control and right side well braced, line of vision to ball over left
shoulder. Hips turn with swing, and left heel returns to ground. The
left arm pulls the club down towards the ball, right hand coming in
when real hitting commences
"t.
- ■
I r r.
n mF-m
m
si \
m
mm
vy; jjr*
The Kro-Flite Mesh Multi-Dot Golf Ball.
Its paint is snow white and granite hard.
Proved itself for distance when it took first
and three next places in the last Australian
Open. The Guillotine proves its strength.
Golfers everywhere prove its popularity.
In Plain Mesh and Multi-Dot, 3/6 each.
THE GUILLOTINE
—IT HAS BUT ONE
SURVIVOR —KRO-
FLITE Kro-Flite is
the only golf ball that
survives the Guillo-
tine. When the weight-
ed, keen-edged knife
drops on any other
hall made , it cuts a
wide gash completely
through the cover. It
can only slightly dent
a Kro-Flite. It can’t
cut it. You can' tout it.
Szsp
a*
frpp
TPjr
iSSS
Kro-Flite Clubs will lift you from
that “Mental Hazard”
In golf, more than in any other game, the
“mental hazard” exists—that nervous hesi-
tancy which'often results in bungled shots.
In every stage of manufacture, Kro-Flite
Registered Clubs are checked and graded for
balance, “swinging weight” and feel, so
that every club in a set matches exactly—
every shot drive, approach, niblick, pitch—
is played with-the same swinging balance.
The effect of this on Kro-Flite golfers can
easily be appreciated. Play is simplified, con-
fidence more readily acquired, that “mental
hazard” overcome.
Models for ladies are included in every
grade of Spaldin'g ; clubs, specially suited in
length, balance, and weight.
Indexed and matched Kro-Flite Irons (not
registered) in two groups of swinging weights,
set of 7, set of 5, £6/5/-; single
clubs, 25/- each.
Many. Kro-Flite features are built into the
medium-priced “Crescent” Club. Woods,
25/- each; Irons, 17/6 each, or for
a set of five.
Spalding offers genuine economy in the
“Thistle,” the finest low price club on the
market. Woods, 17/6 each ; Irons, 10/6
each.
All above quotations are for hickory shafts.
I HONS
WOODS
EveryKro-Klite
Registered Set
has a number.
By quoting it,
you can add or
replace clubs as
yo u desire—
graded exactly
to your others.
They match.


LONS LIFE
/■Vv
y :Vn a
>
Owing to special
process in. manu-
facture of the lead,
the ‘Mephisto’ Copy-
ing Pencil lasts much
longer, yet writes
easily and smoothly
without heavy
pressure.
Medium, Hard and
Extra Hard Degrees.
COPYING
THE POPULAR
PENCILS
Also in 8 colours for checking, >-tc.
From alt Stationers, etc.
T, & C. HARDTMUTH, of “ KOH-I-NOOR" Pencil fame.
London Office—29, Kingsway. W.C.2
Austra ian Representative—
JOHN MACDOUGAL.L,, P.O. Box 165. SYDNEY^
n.‘WVkAMLr
1 >VVHJ
ill;
I i : MTium : k
r> m
m
iUwE^Kim
MAY’S
Fertilizer
Spreader
Now is the time
for Top-dressing
and here is the
ideal machine
for the job.
Send for leaflets
or call and
inspect.
AGENTS:
Guthridge Ltd.
10-12 Parramatta
Road, Camperdown,
New South Wales.
’Phones: L 2715-16
m
National
Hotel
BRISBANE
TARIFF RATES-For Rooms Only
Room for one person, from 8/- to 1 01- per day.
Room for two persons, from 16/- to 20/- per day.
Room with private bathroom, for one person from
12/6 to 20/- per day.
Room (large), with balcony and private bath, for
two persons, 25/- per day.
Suite, balcony bedroom, sitting room, with
private bathroom, for two persons 30/- per day.
Every Room is equipped with "Telephone,
Bedside Light, Hot and Cold Running Water
Conducted on the European plan by—
ROWES LTD.
HOTEL and CAFE PROPRIETORS
Write for Illustrated FoVer
Address Manager
DFGFGHGJHGJH
Under the Whip
Victorian jumpers had to take a back seat
at Caulfield last Saturday, when the Leam-
ington Hurdle was captured by Rossgole and
the Godfrey Watson Steeple by Bang Bang.
Because of his poor display in the Grand
National Hurdle, local punters regarded
Rossgole as having a negligible chance, and
20 to 1 actually was laid; but money came
with a rush for the Sydney candidate, and
he shortened to 5 to 1. P. B. Quinlan has
been looking after Rossgole, in the absence of
his owner-trainer, P. Lynch, Jack Harris
won on the neddy in Sydney, and it is
strange that his services were not requisi-
tioned for Melbourne engagements.
However, Norman Kelly handled Rossgole
with excellent judgment, and his mount
scored by a length from Rakwool, with
Affirm a fair third. Satyrus, the favorite,
shaped miserably, and helped Dookie to
whip in the field; Dookie was one of the
early leaders, but Satyrus never got near
the front. Tiki, who had not appeared over
the battens since he started favorite for the
1929 Grand National and broke down, came
home well behind the place-getters. He is
not engaged in the Australian Hurdle. The
rider of Rossgole is a 19-year-old son of Pat
Kelly, who eight years ago won the Epsom
for Eric Connolly on Rostrum. Incidentally,
“Con” will reach Randwick in a few days
with Dark Man and Broken Doll. He lives
in Melbourne, but has withdrawn support
from the Victorian turf.
Bang Bang, who hails from Adelaide,
annexed the Steeple after a tough finish with
Ebony Prince and the hunter Kaituna. He
possesses plenty of speed, jumps well, and has
an outside chance in the Australian Steeple-
chase. Trained by his owner, J. M. Irwin,
who confesses to being a mere novice at the
game, Bang Bang was acquired for hunting
purposes and followed the Adelaide hounds,
but Irwin discovered that he was worthy of
better things. The Godfrey Watson Steeple
was supposed to be a gift for Sandhurst, but,
making due allowance for this fellow having
stifled a couple of fences, he performed dis-
couragingly. Since the disclosure of attempts
having been made to “get at” Kentle and
Mosstrooper on the eve of the Grand
National Steeple, owners of timber-toppers
are trembling for the safety of their prads;
but there is no suspicion that Sandhurst was
interfered with.
Land of Nod (Moabite —Nod), bought for
ISOOgns. as a yearling, was weighed in
the balance and found wanting in the first
division of the Lillimur Two-year-old. When
favorite at Flemington recently, Land of
Nod was left at the post. Ashley Reed sup-
planted Frank Dempsey as jockey on Satur-
day, and succeeded in getting his mount away
well; but the colt w T as soundly beaten by
two rank outsiders, Ermine and Axinus. The
second division •went to Lightstead, who eased
from 4 to 1 to 6 to 1, but firmed to 9 to 2
at barrier rise. Sonnica, who always headed
the quotes, faded away after leading. Light-
stead, of course, is a son of Greenstead, and
a good ’un at that.
No favorite caught the judge’s eye, and
McShortodds must have gone home rejoic-
ing, seeing that three winners started at 25
to 1, 15 to 1 and 20 to 1, respectively. The
20-to-l chance was Disney, who credited R.
and F. Gilder with the Kambrook Trial
Stake. One of the young owners is a son-
in-law of Leslie Stuart, part proprietor of
the Mentone racecourse. Stuart raced many
fine jumpers, but has experienced poor health
of late and seems to have retired from the
turf.
Bessemer, owned and trained by E. B.
Mclveon, w r ho trained for the late _ Bob
Phillips in Westralia, captured the middle-
distance Murrumbeena Handicap, in which
the favorite. Hazelwood, behaved as badly
as other public fancies during the afternoon.
McKeon will be remembered as having
brought Tarquin to Sydney when Paul Pry
was at the zenith of his fame.
* * * *
For Moonee Valley on Saturday:—
Gellibrand Hurdle: Rakwool; next, Tiki.
Lindsay Gordon Steeple: Kaituna; next,
Bombardment.
* * * *
The crowd that went to Moorefield on
Saturday had to wait till the seventh race
to see a favorite win. and then
the struggle between Zeeland (2
to 1) and Spcarshot (5 to 1)
for the Moorefield Handicap
prize was in doubt till the
judge hoisted the numbers. The
pair came right away from the
rest, Flinders, the third horse,
being six lengths away. Zeeland,
who is trained at Randwick by
Walker and was ridden by God-
dard, is a recruit from picnic
meetings; he is an aged gelding
by William the Silent —Shiraz.
Spearshot is a locally-trained
four-year-old gelding by Spear-
WHAT ODDS?
“What price me, father — eh?”
“Well, I should say, write your own ticket—you don’t seem to be backed.”
head—Ramson. This Page formed a good
opinion of him last season, but he went right
off. He looks more robust now and may be
expected to do well in decent company, as
also may Zeeland.
After Zeeland’s success there was a rush
to back Poitiers, also from Walker’s stable,
in the Hurstville Mile, but the Poitrel chest-
nut faded out after flattering his backers for
a few furlongs. Victory went to Magnetic
(6 to 1) from an outsider, Just Gold (20
to 1), and consistent little Lord Romeo
(3 to 1). It was only by a head that Mag-
netic accounted for Just Gold, but he would
have been unlucky to lose, as he had a bad
position (No. 13) at the barrier and was a
long way from the leaders when the big field
settled down. He is a good-looking brown
by Rossendale —Crag Rose, and is racing
more honestly than he did a while ago.
Jamieson, w’ho has brought a big team
over from Maoriland, scored in the Juvenile
Handicap with King March, another Rossen-
dale, who was backed from long odds to
fives, and won with Voiture, the jockey, tak-
ing things easy over the last bit. It was a
mile race, and King March proved much the
best at the distance. F. Williams, the Rand-
wick trainer, who has thought better of bis
decision to retire from the game, started
three —Bonnie Charles, Willesden and Beck-
with—backed them all, and left his money
with the bookmakers. Beckwith looks well
but has failed badly on these _ suburban
courses, and perhaps he requires more
room to gallop in, such as he gets at Rand-
wick.
Cool Dan (14 to 1) put up a sterling per-
formance in the second division of the Flying
Welter, flashing from sixth at the turn to
first in about a hundred yards; yet he car-
ried 9st. 111 b. Third in this race was the
unbacked Waugoola, who was fifth in the
Doncaster Handicap and is fancied for the
Epsom.
* * * sis
For Canterbury Park on Saturday :
Maiden Handicap: Lady Mosca; next,
Tinwald.
I-lighweight Handicap: Leisure Hour;
next, Prince Verderer.
Canterbury Handicap: Glasgow or Zee-
land ; next, Eden Hall.
Campsie Handicap; Gleaner; next, King
William.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Filipino Gildo was far too good for the
local lad Billy Tyson at Sydney Stadium. A
polished boxer and a venomous hitter, he
put it all over the Australian without taking
anything in return, until the referee called
the slaughter .off in the seventh round. Be-
ginning in the second round, the colored man
downed his opponent with irritating per-
sistency, for the most part with snappy rights
to the jaw’. Tyson took his gruel with plenty
of pluck, but was helpless in the hands of
the Filipino. Gildo Bst. 81b.; Tyson Sst. 71b.
if * * :ji
How’ard Cantonwine (15st. 6-|lb.) and
Geo. Kotsonaros (13st. 71b.) repeated their
wrestling act at Melbourne Stadium, the
crowd being small and critical. Howard’s
attempts to simulate ferocity did not impress.
He was dowmed by the Greek in the fourth
with a “stopper,” and his equaliser came in
the seventh —a laboriously applied imitation
of Pesek’s back-slam. Gantonwine on points.
Footbrawl
Saturday’s Vic. League games, though
promising little excitement, proved thrilling
in many cases. Geelong, battling out its
last hope of reaching the linals, tackled Carl-
ton and held its own until well past lemon
time. The last few minutes, however, saw
Carlton putting in determined drives that
brought goals and a 15-point win: Carlton
106; Geelong 91. Essendon, still with hopes
of “final” honors, seriously mortgaged them
by going under, on its own ground, to South
Melbourne, with 106 points to South’s 108.
South has trained into a fast, co-operating
team, and though too late to do itself any
good may easily spoil someone else’s chances.
Melbourne had an attack of shivers when
I'ootscray led throughout, but a lucky goal
just on bell-ring saved its bacon for the day—
-61 points to Footscray’s 58. Richmond had
little trouble in disposing of Hawthorn by
109 points to 49; and St. Ivilda, now among
the “also-rans,” walloped North Melbourne
by 123 points to 48. Fitzroy stepped across
to Collingwood hoping to repeat its 5-point
victory earlier in the season, but found things
different; in fact, no team could beat ’Wood
with the machine functioning as it did.
When the rout ended, the home side had
collected 167 points to 94, Gordon Coventry
lucking 17 of his side’s 25 goals.
* * * *
In the Rugby League competition South
Sydney, the premiers, at last scored a win,
beating Newtown at the Sports Ground 16-12,
or 4 tries and 2 goals to 2 tries and 3 goals,
one from the field by Lind. The Southerners
made a most unimpressive showing against
their not very formidable opponents, and
were far from the form shown during the last
five years. Western Suburbs, leaders in the
competition, won from University at Pratten
Park 34-17, after leading by only a point
at half-time. Eastern Suburbs eventually
came out ahead of North Sydney at the-
Agricultural Ground by 36 to 12, after the
enemy had headed them 10-7 at the interval.
At Earl Park, St. George defeated Balmain
19-16. Each side scored 4 tries, but 5 goals
from Hyland’s boot brought the Saints home.
* * * *
The M.L. Rugby League team put up a
creditable tussle in Brisbane against a
Queensland side drawn from the Queensland
and Brisbane Rugby Leagues, the first of
its kind since the quarrel between the two
bodies two years ago. The Northerners won
14-11—4 tries, one converted, to a try "and 3
goals. M.L. had bad luck in losing Gregory,
their fullback, for a section of the second
half.
* * * *
After winning 25-11 from a combined East
Coast team, the British Rugby XV got a set-
back when Auckland beat them 19-6. Another
player was injured in the Combined match,
and by the way things are going the tourists
will be hard put to it to find a fifteen for the
Australian games. This is the fourth loss
in 17 games played. One M.L. player was
sent off for the usual excess of zeal.
* * * *
The Rugby Union matches for the Schute
Shield in Sydney saw Randwick forge, further
ahead when the seasiders defeated Northern
Suburbs at the latter’s oval 21-8 (4 tries,
3 converting goals and a penalty goal to a
try, a goal and a penalty goal). The game
was by no means as one-sided as the scores
would' indicate. The fine Randwick back
division was irresistible in the first half, all
the winners’ points being scored before the
interval. With hooker O’Donnell injured
there was a different story in the _ second
spell, the Northerners spoiling persistently
and never giving the opposition backs a
chance to open out. Morrison, Carlton and
White were a great trio in Randwick’s back
division, but the forwards were outpointed.
Hind in the backs and Tyree in the vanguard
were outstanding for the losers. There was
a record crowd of 10,000. Glebe-Balmain
beat Manly comfortably on the latters ground
by 17 to 6, the winning score including a field
goal by Malcolm. At Uni. Oval, the Students
surprised by downing the premiers, Western
Suburbs, by 21-17 in a fast, open game,
Hemingway scoring 3 tries for the home side.
Eastern Suburbs were hard pushed at the
Cricket Ground .by St. George, eventually
winning 24-20; each side scored six tries.
(Continued on page 36)
By beating the Italians in the two open-
ing singles games and the doubles, the Ameri-
can Davis Cup players have earned the
right to challenge France for the cup.
;lC * *
For the first time in the history of the
famous target-shooting event a woman has
won the _ Ring’s Prize at Bisley, Marjorie
Foster, who served as an ambulance driver
during the war, completes with Amy Johnson
and Winifred Brown, winner of the aerial
Ring’s Cup race, a trio before whom mere
modern man bows in abasement. The lady
scored 280, including 10 bulls at 1000 yards.
TWO CLASSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“An English canon says that the modern race-
course is frequented solely by parasites and their
victims.”
It leaves him cold —sad, too, I shouldn’t
wonder,
And not improbably a trifle bored —
What’s picturesquely styled the splendid
thunder
Of hoofs that pound upon the velvet sward.
No time has he for silken-coated riders
Or satin-coated steeds. Instead, his eyes
Are bent upon insatiable spiders
Spinning their webs for flies.
There’s little question he’d approve a tax on
The Tux-f, sufficient to uproot the stud,
And chance the danger to our Anglo-Saxon
Breed, and the menace to our Norman
blood.
Courses are Tiddler’s grounds for double-
dealers,
Such is the quaint obsession that he hugs,
Places where multitudes of crafty spielers
Prey upon hordes of mugs.
He doesn’t care a rap about improvement
Of our already fading equine stocks;
He never led an eager toteward movement
Or gazed entranced at lady punters’ frocks.
He only sees the pigeon and the plucker
On flowery lawns littered with tickets
torn,
The greenhorn and the knave, the crook and
sucker,
The shearer and the shorn.
Brother, who hearest oft the whips a-flanking
Ere the strung field comes sweeping past
the post,
Do you suppose you’d figure in his ranking
As parasite or host?
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


Bert* sleep these nightsT
TRY COUNTING
S)RAOtV\ANS RONS ?
OERT '‘Yes thats ho qood"
<TERT: YZeLL, TRy WALKING, AWIRAE-
Fence and You'll Soon
DROP OFF .**
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray”: Another missionary effort to
arouse interest in Australian football among
the heathen of N.S.W. and Queensland will
be made next month, when Carlton and
Richmond teams will visit Sydney and Bris-
bane, playing exhibition matches. The Ma
State has never taken very kindly to the
national game, but up to the early 1880’s
Queensland played no other code. It is
curious that Union and League Rugby should
have rooted so deeply in these two States
while in all the others the Australian code is
paramount. Both the big Melbourne clubs
are paying all their own expenses for this
tour, which will cost about £BOO0 —eloquent
of the financial standing of the leading
League organisations in Yarraville.
'■■■ *
“Richmond”: Someone has been digging
into the balance-sheets of the 12 leading
Victorian League clubs for the past five
years in an endeavor to find out how much
has been paid out in that time to players.
The total comes to over £lOO,OOO, and that
is not counting the Melbourne club, which
does not include items of the kind in its
balance-sheet. Carlton has been the freest
spender; it handed out over £3OOO to its min-
ions last season.
* * * *
“Gate”: The N.S..W. Rugby League has
had one of its worst seasons financially, and
for a time gloomily considered the question
of abandoning the annual trip to Queensland.
It has been decided to risk it, but only three
matches will be played. Now that the feud
between the Brisbane and Queensland Leagues
has ended, gates may improve.
; ! : *
“Cleveland” : An unusual football happen-
ing is reported from Townsville (N.Q.).
One of the local clubs felt aggrieved with a
referee, and formally notified the local
League in writing that it would not play
under him in future. The insurgents
remaining recalcitrant in spite of argument,
the League disqualified the whole club for
two years. One of the young gentlemen
placed in the icebox is Litster, the Queens-
land representative half-back and batsman.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The N.S.W. Rugby Union
will finish off its season in style. Queens-
land will be in action on the Sydney Cricket
Ground on August 2, and the match between
the .Waratahs and the Rest, which will be
a trial for the selection of the sides 'against
the British, follows on August 4. Britain
will tackle N.S.W. on August 23, and the
only test between the tourists and Aus-
tralia will follow a week later. There will
be two matches in Brisbane against Queens-
land and an Australian XV, the final game
being against N.S.W. in Sydney on September
10 ; This means a severe curtailment of the
original programme, the Melbourne, New-
castle and Westralian games having been
cut out.
* * * ♦
“Old Q.”: None of those chronicling the
demise in America of Australian actor Harry
Jewett have- told The Bulletin that he
was a representative Rugby Union foot-
baller. He was in Brisbane in 1883, when
Bill Holloway was doing a long run in “The
Lights of London,” and played footer with
one of the local clubs to keep fit. His form
as a forward was so good that he was
included in the Queensland team in both
matches against N.S.W. This was the first
time N.S.W. had played in Brisbane, and
when the locals won both matches the pubs
ran dry.
The Fifteen
The third Test at Leeds, which at one time
looked a certain win for Australia, was
marred by rain, which practically cut out one
entire day. The Englishmen carried on tlicir
first innings on a wet and easy pitch, Ham-
mond at last clicking with 113. Duckworth
helped him along with a stubborn 33, and
after Chapman had spanked up 45 the
innings closed for the creditable total of 391.
Grimmett bowled 56 overs for 5 wickets and
135 runs. Following on, England lost 3
for 95, when an appeal against the light
closed the match. A lot of ill-feeling was
generated because of this appeal and a
previous one whereby Hobbs and Sutcliffe
were able to hold the game up when time
meant much to the fielding side. The Tykes
roundly hooted Hobbs and Sutcliffe, an
almost unprecedented happening, even in the
North of England.
* * * *
“Lansdowne”: A really first-class bowler
is a much likelier match-winner for his side
—when there is a time limit to games—
than the best batsman who ever cut and
drove. To put it another way, a batsman
may make too many runs, whereas a bowler
can’t possibly take too many wickets. Huge
scores too often mean drawn games. It is
in no sense detracting from Bradman’s
phenomenal performance in the third Test
to suggest that Australia would have had
a better chance of winning if lie hadn’t
beaten all batting records for international
games. On Saturday after amassing their
506, Woodfull’s men dismissed half the Eng-
lish side for a comparatively trivial total;
had their own innings closed an hour or
two earlier they might have accounted for
the lot, which would have put a very
different aspect on the game when it was
resumed on Monday afternoon. Taking the
tour all through, hasn’t Grimmett been a
greater asset to the side than even Brad-
man? But most of the honor and glory, not
to mention the £IOOO-note, go to the run-
getter.
* * * *
“Brassey”: An English enthusiast recently
fitted the players in a foursome with pedo-
meters to support his claim that golf calls
for staying power, at least. The card for
the 18 holes played was 75, which proves
that none of the four got much off
the fairway; the average of the pedometers
was five miles —a minimum of 10 miles for
36 holes. Lots of vigorous individuals who
play football and scoff at golf would think
twice of walking 10 miles on end, punching a
ball meanwhile. And that’s leaving out all
consideration of the breath wasted swearing
at the caddie.
* * * *
“Toombul”: When Chapman’s lads were
due in Brisbane for the first Test a couple
of years ago, the groundsman of the Exhibi-
tion ground suffered great agony of mind be-
cause the local swallows insisted on flying
away with the pitch after he had watered it,
the fowls requiring the mud for nest-building.
The ground staff at Lords has recently been
in much the same fix. There the trouble is
caused by the seagulls, which not only dig
up the turf for worms, but bring old bones
and all sorts of rubbish from the near-by
river.
Racquet and Brawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Though the Aus-
tralian. Davis Cup team won their match
against Britain at Bournemouth, Crawford
failed abjectly against Austin, giving one
of his characteristic “what’s the use” exhibi-
tions. Jim Willard came to the rescue by
beating his man in the singles, and Moon
did likewise. With Crawford the Queens-
lander won the doubles from Austin and Oliff,
a distinctly second-rate combination accord-
ing to Davis Cup standards, but it took them
five hard-fought sets to get home.
* * * *
“Ralph Rocketter”: The N.S.W. Lawn
Tennis Association is not troubled about its
position in regard to the White City deben-
tures (B. in spite of published
rumors. The association itself, steadily
buying in the debentures, owns £23,000 of
them, and of those outstanding only four
or five thousand are held by people un-
interested in tennis. As it will take a reso-
lution supported by 75 per cent, of the
debenture-holders to bring, about the disposal
of the White City courts, the association
stands on velvet; but. at the same time, it
has no fear of its ability to meet its liabili-
ties to the debenture-holders.
$ $ $
“Top Spin” : The Australian tennis heads
are notoriously canny wi’ the brass. The
latest evidence of this is a request sent to
Westralia, which is to be the venue of the
next Australian championships, suggesting
that in future States wherein these tourneys
are held shall give a guarantee against loss.
Westralia has countered rather effectively
by asking the easterners to conduct eliminat-
ing rounds, and thus cut out duds who
have no earthly hope of getting a place in
the championships but would expect to have
their expenses paid. ,
* * *
“Let”: The meeting of the Davis Cup
nations, which is to be held in London next
month—there are 38 of the said nations —
promises to be a momentous one. An
attempt is to be made to take the manage-
ment of the tourney out. of the hands of the
Davis Cup committee, so called, which con-
sists of the tennis officials of the nation at
the time holding the cup. It is proposed
that control be transferred to the Inter-
national Lawn Tennis Federation, which
seems fair. Still, the conditions laid down
by the donor of the cup will have to be
respected, and there may be a difficulty in
varying them.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: The presentation by
Dunlop-Perdriau of a cup and purse to be
competed for annually by professional golfers
his greatly stimulated interest in the Royal
and nowadays fairly remunerative game. The
Victorian and N.S.W. events were played
almost simultaneously, and drew a large
entry of the leading professionals in each
State. At the Commonwealth club course, in
Melbourne, R, Jupp, of Metropolitan, was the
first to get his name on the pot, beating
Arthur Spence, of Yarra Yarra, 4 up and 3
to play, in 36 holes of match play. In the
Sydney event, played on the Australian
Club’s links at Kensington, veteran Tommy
Howard, ex-professional champion of Aus-
tralia, downed W. Bolger, the young Parra-
matta player, by a hole at the 36th, after a
neck-and-ueck battle.
“Sandringham”: A curious point cropped
up during the match for the Dunlop Cup
in Melbourne, It was a question of which
player had the right to putt, the ball of each
lying at the same distance from the hole, as
measurements by the umpire showed. Instead
of tossing, the players agreed that one
should putt and that in the case of a stymie
being- laid the obstructing ball should be
lifted. No stymie eventuated, but because
of their agreement to ignore the stymie both
men were disqualified. Rule 2 of the
special rules applying to match play was
responsible. Under this no person can ex-
clude the operation of any rule or waive any
penalty. Yet both the players concerned
were professional golfers of long experience
and high standing.
* * * :|:
“Delia”: Flaying in a foursomes between
Army and Navy sides at Sunningdale, near
London, an Army representative bunged his tee
shot into a bunker near the green played for.
His opposite number on the Navy side also
played off, landing his shot in the same
bunker. It did not stay there, however, but,
landing on top of the Army man’s ball, hopped
out -and ran on to the green, within easy
putting distance for a two. I could hardly
have believed it possible but for the fact
that the Navy man told me the story.
* * * *
“Bowen Terrace”: The iconoclasts who
are now tearing up Victoria Park in Bris-
bane to make a municipal golf links have
received much praise from The Bulletin.
I am willing to admit that since the
passing of the bullock-drivers and of the A.I.F.
the only chance of maintaining the Aus-
tralian language in its pristine impurity is
golf. Still, Victoria Park was the last of
Brisbane’s common lands. On it, in the old
days, one could hug one’s girl at night, play
two-up in the wooded gullies near the general
hospital, and even match a couple of cocks
on a Sunday morning in the deep creek
that runs alongside the Brisbane Grammar
sports ground. All that is now to be edged
out by ridiculous persons in even more
ridiculous clothes, who insist that because
they have called “fore” half a mile away a
black eye from a golf ball is not a subject
for compensation.
* sic *
“Cranoustie”: The amazing Bobby Jones
set the seal on his fame last week by win-
ning the American open golf championship
from one of the strongest fields entered for
years. He took 287 for 72 holes, or a frac-
tion under fours, the first 18 being done in
68. .Tones has now won the American open
and amateur titles four times, the British
open thrice, and the British amateur once.
He thus holds the four greatest golf cham-
pionships—-the first player ever to do so.
Car and Cycle
“Whisht” : In spite of much mystery a few
details of the Rolls-Royce supermarino
Schneider Cup engine lent by the British
Government to Smith and Harkness for their
attempt on the world’s speed record in M.L.
next February continue to leak out. The
gadget weighs only 12oz. for each h.p.
developed, while its output is 1900 brake-
horsepower. The average motor-car engine
weighs from 51b. to 101 b. per h.p. and requires
100 cubic inches of piston displacement to
produce 38 h.p., compared with 90 in the
R.-R, Bore and stroke are 6in. x 6|in., and
a special supercharger doing 32,500 revs, per
minute when the engine is going all out is
fitted.
* * * *
“M.P.H.” : Latest aspirant for the laurels
Segrave won on Daytona Beach is a Los
Angeles engineer named Pennypacker, who
is constructing an entirely new sort of car.
It is actuated not by petrol but by a mixture
of tym gases, and has a 175-h.p. 8-cylinder
sleeve-vaive rotary motor in each wheel.
There are no clutch, no differential, no trans-
mission shaft, no carburetters and no crank-
shafts. The car will weigh only 30001 b
Segrave’s Sunbeam weighed 12,0001 b.—and
is to be driven by H. A. Patterson, for whom
is claimed the world’s motor-cycling record
of 142 m.p.h. He had some experience as
a car-driver with the Triplex-Special that
killed Lee Bible.
* , * *
“Differential”: The three-wheeled cycle-
car has not much of a following in Aus-
tralia. but it is very popular in Britain
and the Continent, where new records are
continually being hoisted. Recently an
English driver named Davis, with Mrs.
Stewart, the first woman to drive over 100
m.p.h., established a fresh set in a 24-hour
run at Montlhery track. A minor accident
was responsible for the car being only 21
hours actually on the track, but the 1500-
mile run was covered at the rate of 71.43
m.p.h.—pretty good going for a little two-
cylinder engine.
* * * #
“Ball Race” : The Dunlop-Perdriau people
have published details of the famous Warr-
nambool-Melbourne road race which will be
held on October 4, under the eye of the
League of Victorian Wheelmen. The dis-
tance between the two points is 165 miles,
and the amateur Colac-Melbourne race will
be hold on the same day over the last 10(>
miles of the course. There were over 400
entries for the two events last year, and
500 are expected this time. This will be
the 22nd “Warrnambool,” the event having
been inaugurated in 1895. Only two scratch
men have ever won it, though P. O’Shea,
of MX. and Hubert Opperman have each
recorded fastest time on three occasions.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: The big cycling road race
from Sydney to Melbourne in October is
already arousing a lot of interest, and this
will be added to by the presence of three
of the .leading Continental road men, Franz,
Mauclaire and Jolly. It will be the first
time that visiting riders of international
reputation have appeared in an Australian
road race, though we have seen plenty of
them on the tracks. The race will be
run on Tour de France lines, and all the Aus-
tralians who took part in the Tour de France
a couple of years ago will be riding. As
the team includes Hubert Opperman, Percy
Osborne, W. Bainbridge and the M.L. rider
H. G. Watson, the visitors will have to
scratch gravel.
* # * *
“Fitzcray” : Hubert Opperman is off to the
Speck next month to try to establish a
record for the run from Hobart to Launces-
ton and back, some 250 miles. Fred Keefe
did the round journey in 1922 in 5 seconds
under 17 hours.
Miscellaneous
“Bumpkin” : F. J. Bennell, the Melbourne
dentist who won the sensational yacht race
to Tasmania last year, has issued a chal-
lenge to any yachtsman for a run to Maori-
land. The gage has been accepted by A. J.
Donovan, a fisherman of Inverloch, and it is
proposed to hold the event after the next race
to the Speck. Bennell uses his little vessel,
the Oimara, in his tooth-pulling job, cruis-
ing regularly to Westernport and other
points along Victoria’s wild coast.
* * * *
“Ride Off”: The Ashton brothers shook
the mud of Old England off their polo boots
last week and departed for America, where
they are to play half a dozen matches.
It is probable that their ponies will be dis-
posed of there before the brethren return
for the shearing season. Of their 20 matches
they won 15, and collected two cups, in addi-
tion to giving Australian horsemanship and
sportsmanship a first-class advertisement..
* * * *
“Blue Chalk”: The Billiards Control
Council, which is supposed to be the supreme
authority in the game of “English” billiards,
made history of a kind the other day.
First of all, it handed out 17 certificates
for world’s records to Walter Lindrum, a
larger batch at one time than it has hitherto
issued in the whole of its blameless existence.
Then, also for the first time, it put a woman
player on the records list. Named Joyce
Gardner, she now holds the official certifi-
cate for the highest break by a flapper—96.
❖ Jje ❖ #
“Third Base”: N.S.W. baseball has been
so pinched by the hard times that the ruling
authorities find it impossible to send a team
to Melbourne for the annual inter-State
match. Victoria and South Australia, which
last year consented to the transfer of the
annual meeting to Sydney so that the visit-
ing American team might be tackled by all
hands, are annoyed at losing the fixture
against N.S.W. with its attendant gate. It
cannot be helped, however, for not only is
the N.S.W. association short of brass, but
an uncomfortably large contingent of its
players are out of their jobs.
* * * *
“Feng-Sliui”: The Chinese National
athletic meeting was recently held at Hang-
chow, the capital of Chekiang. Over 2000
male and female athletes participated. Girls
whose mothers have bound feet threw jave-
lins, jumped, ran and played basket-ball.
Youths whose fathers still wear their finger-
nails long to demonstrate their contempt for
all forms of bodily exertion broke numerous
Asiatic records. The flapper press of Sydney
has .nothing to teach the Chinese picture
papers. They starred the photograph of
pretty Miss Sung Kuei-ying, a 16-year-old
sprinter from Harbin, in Manchuria ; and it
was announced that the nation’s hope of up-
holding China’s prestige at the forthcoming
Olympiad at Tokyo was Xiu Chang-tsoong,
of Mukden. Fifteen years ago I attended
a sports meeting at Shanghai when the
orthodox native papers waxed sarcastic over
the .sons of gentlemen running about like
rickshaw coolies. Asia is moving.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: A couple of Australians
figured in the recent match between teams
representing English and American Universi-
ties. the events being run off at Stamford
Bridge, near London. The Americans won
7-5, W. C. Wentworth, of N.S.W. and
Oxford, failing to collect the quarter-mile,
for which he was a hot favorite, though the
winner, Elmer, could do no better than 51sec.
for the distance. Wallace, of Cambridge, who
hails from Geelong, was fancied for the shot
putt, but could get no nearer than third.


A BETTER
VULCAN IZUC AT A
LOWLO COST
mm
m
ymm
klr f - 1 L\S~
DFGFGHGJHGJH
CPEED and simplicity, combined with efficiency and
economy in roadside tube repairs—that’s the Leggett
Rapid Roadside Vulcanizer story.
It’s as simple as AB C. Just place the patch of live
rubber in position, slip fuel unit into pan, clamp down and
light.
Result —perfect, permanent vulcanization (not a patch) —
your tyre as good as when it was made. Anybody can do
it anywhere.
And the price for this better, quicker Roadside Vulcanizer
is only 6/9; refills of Patch & Heat Units, 4/3 (slightly
higher cost in outlying districts). And made in
Australia.
Every garageman carries stocks, but should supplies
not be available, orders will be sent post free on
receipt of remittance and name cf local garageman.
LEGGETT PRODUCTS PTY., LTD.,
MELBOURNE AND SYDNEY.
ONt OF T-HE- 42 HE'D 01-AMOND
MOTORING N-EOe./V'ITIES ♦• ♦
HEAT
UNITS
I rapid
VULCANIZE
m
■
It .
m
:.S
: n
u
m
■
A
AUSTRALIA
MA D c
IN


C AP ABI LIT Y
far beyond your expectations
The Dodge Sixes and the Eight-in-Line are exceptionally
able in performance. Smooth, fast, lightning-quick in get-
away—a delight to handle. They deliver their power effort-
lessly and above all dependably. They are economical of
fuel and oil.
\
DODGE SIXES ....
UNMATCHED in the extra roominess, smartness and
safety of Australian-built Bodies.
UNMATCHED in ability to meet all performance
requirements.
UNMATCHED in the safety afforded by internal-
expanding 4-wheel hydraulic brakes—weatherproof, self-
equalising and requiring no lubrication.
DODGE EIGHT-IN-LINE
UNMATCHED at its price for luxury, roominess and completeness
of appointment of its Mono-Piece All-Steel Body.
UNMATCHED at its price for the efficiency and economy achieved
by its advanced - design eight-in-line motor with modem down-draft
carburetion.
UNMATCHED among eights of popular price in the dependability
that is typical of every Dodge Brothers car.
□GDSE BROTHERS
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
Neu) South Wales Harden & Johnston, Ltd., Sydney South Australia .... Waymouth Motor Company, Ltd., Adelaide
Victoria . Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne Western Australia .... Winterbottom Motor Company, Ltd., Perth
Queensland Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane Tasmania Co-operative Motors, Ltd., Hobart


A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Have you
ordered
Kraft Cheese?
Up on the 11th floor of St. James’s the
Forum Club lias dug itself in and expects to
be there for at least seven years. It is a
mixed club, and men (so far mostly married)
are joining in fair numbers. Judges, lawyers
and doctors consort within the primrose
walls, and the membership is treated with
exact fairness in the matter of bath- and
dressing-rooms allotted to each sex. Grey
rugs with corner bunches of purple grapes
are strewn about the waxed floors of the
large drawing-room, which can be turned
into a ballroom at a minute’s notice —-one of
the first things the house committee did was
to put down a dancing floor. The curtains
to this room are violet repp. Violet velvet
cushions give a note of imperial comfort, the
armchairs and couches are down-filled, tables
and bookstands arc of Queensland blackwood,
and pictures by Australian artists (some
good specimens of Mrs. Ellis Rowan’s work
among them) carol around the walls. In the
dining-room solid round tables of Queens-
land blackwood are mellow pools of light, and
mahogany sideboards speak of old Sydney.
There is still a little of this old Sydney
visible from the green-curtained windows.
Right in the foreground rises the green
beauty of St. James’s spire, with the old
Mint beyond it. Farther to the right is the
magnificence of St. Mary’s. Between St.
Mary’s and Elizabeth-street lies Hyde Park,
now almost denuded of its former wealth of
trees. Later the Archibald Memorial foun-
tain will fling a rainbow across the club’s
vision, and at the top of the park the Anzae
Memorial, designed by Bruce Dellit, will rise
to the memory of our soldier dead.
A gadget in the bathroom interests the
eternal woman. It is a roller-towel —but
with a difference. This one is a continuous
clean towel, contained in a cabinet on the
wall. You press a button and up goes the
soiled strip and down comes a clean one
large enough to dry three pairs of hands.
When the last strip of clean is unrolled, the
fact appears printed thereon. Then a new
towel is inserted, and the game begins over
again, and there are no unsightly soiled
hand-towels over-brimming corner baskets.
And, incidentally, this Letter is glad to
announce that its old friend John D._ Moore
won second place to Mr. Dellit in the
Institute of Architects’ Competition for the
Anzae Memorial.
Flowered taffetas, enormous and widely
spaced in pattern, are back. But these are
only for the tall. The chiffons, silks and
marocains with the pin-point spots will be
relished by the small woman. A white
chiffon dotted all over with tiny red spots
had its pleated frills edged with cherry, and
wore st wide-sleeved three-quarter coat,
edged about with pleating garnished in a
similar manner. All-over embroidery makes
blouse tops, and occasionally little coats.
Chantilly lace is fashioned into the most
cobwebby ensembles suitable for restaurant
dinners or quiet evenings with the radio.
All waists are defined, and the fullness of
the skirt starts almost immediately below.
Hips, on the other hand, are no longer
defined; the skirt flows wide and free to the
ground. Boleros are “in” for the slim, tall
woman. Necklines are finished with giddy
little butterfly bows, and the wrist-lines of
sleeves are coy with the same. Buttons of
every description occur at unexpected
moments. Straw is used as an edging to tulle
frills. Old-fashioned materials (a little bit
softer, perhaps, in the weave), such as
pique, Shantung and frisca, are among the
smartest wear.
A glass case held a pair of gold kid gloves
for evening wear —smooth gold like we’ve
been wearing in our shoes. A sunshade of
little lace frills was perched on the end of
a long, long ivory stick. Dresses built like
those in which Josephine allured Napoleon
arose on every hand, in taffeta, grosgrain
and georgette. Metal-thread gleamed -in
evening frock and coat, and one white
georgette—about eight yards round —had its
rippling hem weighted with great ragged-look-
ing white chrysanthemums, as accidental as if
flung by a mischievous wind. Shoes _ with
toppling heels of dull sapphire-blue kid; a
wedding outfit complete with pale-green veil
and pearl headdress; Patou-pink (the palest
of shell) hats of linen and cretonne; hats
of baku plainly banded with patent leather;
hair-lace hats droopy and picturesque,
finished off with floating ribands in the Wat-
teau manner; street frocks a few inches
below the knee; a black grosgrain evening
coat, nipped in at the waist, snug to the
figure and flaring out to old-fashioned ruch-
ings—these are portion of the gospel of the
day according to Jo O’Keeffe, the D.J. new-
fashion specialist, who sends her impres-
sions ahead of her.
You’ll wear your monogram on your
summer panama or baku. A starched linen
hat is declared quite good with tub frocks,
and linen shoes threaten to become regular
streetgoers. With your striped blazer
you’ll wear a rough straw (and these, thank
Heaven! can be made in Australia) with
a zebra ribbon for trimming. Polka dots,
checks and stripes are all hot favorites for
cottons, linens and shantungs.
So far the calls recorded in the papers for
the Sydney-London telephone have been of a
family or business nature. But last week the
long-distance was used in the interests of
a well-known Sydney man’s eyesight. Already
one of his eyes had been removed, and to his
own and his family’s anguish the trouble
was found to be spreading to the remaining
eye. A brother, who is a doctor, read in a
recent medical journal of the successful
treatment of a similar trouble by a Con-
tinental doctor. The doctor brother got a
London eye specialist on the telephone and
sketched for him the history of the case; the
London doctor got on to his Continental
confrere, who sent back word by ’phone
that from what he had heard he considered
there was sufficient hope of successful treat-
ment to justify the patient undertaking the
long journey between Australia and his
clinic. The whole matter was discussed and
arranged in a few hours, and the patient is
leaving Sydney by the earliest boat.
In a season when dances are thickly
populated only if the tickets are cheap,
when decorations have dwindled to a mini-
mum and supper is generally coffee and
sandwich, the Motor Yacht Club Ball takes
a proud place. The Ambassadors was so
packed that when the dancing commenced
the arena suggested a barrel of herrings set
into slow motion by the rod of the pickier.
It was a queerly-mixed crowd, too, in which
l’eal pearls gyrated alongside the product of
the shilling-a-string counter.
The tables blazed with flowers; every
second yacht-owner seemed to have his craft
reproduced in chrysanthemums and lit with
electrics as a centre decoration. Some of
them rather suggested flower-smothered
coffins served with funeral meats. On the
table at which Governor Philip Game and
his lady rested and broke bread was a be-
flowered sft. 9in. model of H.M.A.S. Aus-
tralia on a sea of sapphire tulle. The
Stuart Doyle table was truly staggering.
The movie magnate is Commodore of the
R.M.F.C., and his yacht, Mirimar 11, is the
flagship, and in miniature, washed by
futuristic waves of cerise, mauve and green
flowers, its outline defined by horticulture
and bediamonded with electrics, it was a
decoration which might have turned Nero’s
thoughts from the burning of Rome. There
were Navy League sea cadets in the vesti-
bule—a guard of honor patterned neatly in
navy blue and white for the State E*es. On
a roll of drums these slid across the ballroom
to the dais. In their train stepped the
Stuart Doyles, she in luscious attire of
white georgette sparkling like an ice-maiden’s
raiment, and finished off with a cluster of
snowdrops; chieftain of the Broken Bay
branch Fitz Patrick and his wife, and vice-
Commodore Bacon from Newcastle.
Lady Game, in black chiffons embossed
with gold flower beads, gave the accolade to
seven snow-white debs, who approached
proudly, pensively or nervously to the strains
of “Advance Australia Fair.” _ Aide Gifford,
already well up in the popularity stakes, was
one of the night’s attractions.
The widow of John Hay, LL.D., who was
knighted towards the end of last century,
died at her Crow’s Nest home last week,
and was buried in the family graveyard at
Coolangatta. She was an aunt of Alex. Hay,
sometime M.P. for New England in the
Federal Parliament, and of the handsome
sisters who are well known in Sydney and
Melbourne. As Jessie Sinclair, she went to
Auckland (M.L.) with her Scottish parents
at the'suggestion of an uncle, Dr. Andrew
Sinclair, R.N., who was on the Beagle with
Darwin. Her husband came to Australia
to administer the enormous Berry estate,
which then extended over acres of the North
Shore around Crow’s Nest, and from Berry
to Nowra on the South Coast. David Berry
willed his property to the Hays, and at the
time of his death it was worth over a mil-
lion sterling; but it was loaded with enor-
mous benefactions, obligations to build the
Berry Hospital and hand the Church of Scot-
land £300,000 being amongst them.
John Hay’s widow spent her closing years
at the old family place at Crow’s Nest. She
grew some of the finest orchids in Australia
there, worked hard for the betterment of
North Sydney, took a practical interest in
a dozen or more charities, and was a fer-
vent adherent of the local Presbyterian
church. She was a most lovable little o'd
lady, spare, active and sunny-tempered, with
a fine mind which remained active to the
end of her 85 years of useful life.
That struggling little step-sister of the
Grand Arts, the Arts and Crafts Society,
which helps a great number of women with
facile fingers and a sense of line and color
to help themselves, is faced with a menace
in the form of
a rising and
very trouble-
some overdraft.
It is to slay
this giant, or
at least cut his
claws, that the
lady in the
picture, Mrs.
Sterling Levis,
is organising
a ball in the
Blaxland Gal-
leries on Aug-
ust 1. Mrs.
Levis, whose
outsta n d i n g
decorations for
the Havilali
Home matinee
some two or
three years
ago are still
remembered, is
again making a feature of the decorations.
Eirene Mort is helping her to carry out
her design, and the Blaxland promises to
be a bit of the bush on the great night.
Mrs. Levis, who is the wife of a well-known
Vaucluse doctor, has, in addition to her
sense of design, the gift of poetry. Many
of her verses have appeared in the “Woman’s
Mirror.” Monte Luke made the picture.
Nearly a hundred friends and admirers
of the late George Lambert met at David
Jones’s last week to start a Lambert
Memorial Fund. Syd Ure. Smith, who, with
Gladys Owen, was responsible for the move-
ment, exuded suave and efficient geniality
from a corner of the stage, and on his right
sat a remarkable collection of notabilities.
Chief Justice Street, in the chair, attributed
their departed friend’s pre-eminence in part
at least to his old master, Julian Ashton,
who was present. The Governor, looking
like a spare, hard-bitten kewpie, moved the
inauguration of the fund, and Lud Mayor
Marks, who, with his tall bowed form and
melancholy asceticism of countenance, rather
suggests an artist himself, seconded the
motion in a speech that might have been
shorter, and no harm done. Minister for
Local Government Bruxner referred to the
artist’s war services, and so did General
Onslow (the soldier, not the politician),
while Knoxes, Allens, Austins and other
members of our indigenous nobility and
most of Sydney’s leading artists listened and
applauded in the body of the hall. It was
a great kick-off for a meritorious object.
No committee this year has the courage
to name a price beyond 12s. 6d. for its ball
tickets. True, at a half-guinea and 12s. 6d.
the ballrooms are crowded, but some of the
money is, like Ole Man River, a long time
rolling along. Tales are told of expenses
accounts and bills for bands outstanding six
and eight weeks, and when treasurers and
secretaries do come along with the cheque
the explanation is always the same—“ Ticket
money was so hard to get in.” The dance
studios are still working overtime; but sing-
ing and elocution teachers are hearing over
and over again from grown-up students:
“So sorry, this will be my last term till I
find another job.”
This sunny smile is owned by Norah Frost,
whose heart is always flatly contradicting
her name. She is the social organiser for the
deaf and dumb
and blind chil-
dren at Dar-
lington. Last
year she snared
the ill-starred
Segrave’s
“Golden Ar-
row” and put
it on view for
the cause at
the Easter
Sho w. Tli e
result, at six-
pence a head,
was £lBOO for
the Institute.
Just no vv
she is stimu-
dating in-
terest in the
Pickwick Club
Ball, the Motor
Ball, which has
the backing of
the whole motor trade in Sydney, and a
monster cake-baking competition and cabaret.
When she is not busy on one of these jobs,
she is raising her pretty mezzo-soprano in
the gaols and the hospitals. A wonderful
woman, Norah!
In conversation with Harold ,Wei gall’s
widow the other day the fact came out that
the late gentle little man of law was a
direct descendant of the Plantagenets, through
his father, A. B. Weigall, so long Sydney
Grammar’s beloved master. The chain
started with the marriage of a Weigall
and Cecilia Brome in seventeen hundred and
something. She was descended from that
Fifth Earl of Anjou who called himself
Geoffrey Plantagenet and married Matilda of
England, and reckoned among his sons
Henry 11. of England. The other sons of
the Anjou continued the name of Plan-
tagenet, which was a reference to the sprig
of broom adopted as the family emblem by
a Crusader forebear. A descendant, Bartholo-
mew Brome, who married Anne Cranmer,
niece of the historic archbishop, laid the
foundations of the family in Kent. Broome
Park, Kitchener’s old home, was a part of
that Plantagenet’s freehold. Here H. D.
Mclntosh reigned for several years follow-
ing the war. Now the beautiful bit of
parkland and the famous Elizabethan man-
sion erected by Sir Basil Dixwell in 1634
has been bought by F. W. Lund, a director
of the Anglo-Persian Oil Company.
This Letter would like to add a bottle-
brush and a sprig or two of wattle to the
bouquet handed to Miss M. Simpson, of the
Education Department. For Miss Simpson,
though retired, must still be classed as a
vital bit of a department she served for 45
years. For many of these she was associated
with the work of infants’ schools in this
State. She was a live force in the early
days of the Blacltfriars School (now a
shining model), and as far back as 25 years
ago she founded the first Infants’ Mothers’
Club in tlie State. Now there are 81
such clubs with a membership of 9000
linked in a Federation of which this capable
teacher is the life patron. Last week the
Federation farewelled Miss Simpson, who is
taking a ’busman’s holiday amid the kinder-
gartens of Tasmania. There were speeches
(one of the best from Miss < R. Stevens,
Mistress of Blackfriars), music, the usual
billy-brew T , a bouquet shaped like a gum-
leaf, and a handbag for the traveller.
If one is holden with the cords of her
sin, she is surely riveted by the cables of
her amiability. Ever since her arrival Lady
Game has been doing the rounds of the
women’s clubs and societies in Sydney. All
the little music clubs have secured the Vice-
reine's presence for one afternoon or evening,
and thereby secured the record attendance
of the year'. Art and philanthropy have had
sFces of the lady’s time, and now the Society
of Women Writers is cutting into her lunch
hour by inviting her to its board. Eight-
hour day indeed ! A Governor’s wife _is
lucky if she gets off with 12 and a digestion
not permanently impaired.
Mona McLarty, one of the popular fol-
lowers of the picnic races, whose horse
Kinnard this year carried off the Bong Bong
Cup, is among the newly engaged. Her
young man is Pat Terry, an engineer.
Mona’s people are the D. G. McLartys,
station-owners on the Riverina.
Kitty Gaden, of Bowral, has become Mrs.
Norman Walker. The knot was tied at All
Saints’, Woollahra. and the future home will
be at South Woodburn, on the North Coast.
Alan Canny, one of Australia’s most bril-
liant young medical research workers, came
b°ek to Svdnev la«t week with his wife,
who was Isabel Ebsworth. Dr. Canny, who
lias been assistant to the great Sir Charles
Martin, of the luster Institute of Preventive
Medicine and Professor of Experimental
Pathology at the University of London, will
continue research work —for the present, at
any rate, under the wing of the Rockefeller
Foundation. Alan is the only son of J. P.
Canny, of Sydney head office of the National
Bank of Australasia.
Of two sisters, both pretty, the elder is
more so. She is also good, kind, patient and
charitable. She looks after her father and
mother and runs the home beautifully in a
southern city. A year ago she came to
Sydney for a holiday and met a young man
who admired her. In due course he went to
visit her parents in the southern city. There
the younger sister east her eye and net
over him. They were duly wed. That was
a year ago. Things went wrong, and after
divorcing her husband, the siren came back
to the old home. The elder sister, having-
rounded up another eligible, had by this
time brought him to the family circle on
approval. Within a week the younger, less
pretty and not at all useful sister had met
and married him too. N.B. —Virtue is its
own reward.
The week would not have been complete
without a visit to old friend Alexander
Watson, who was filling the King’s Hall in
Hunter-street with the light and cheerful-
ness and grace of his diction and choice of
recitation. Occasionally the dim cloud or
tragedy glowered over the audience at the
bidding of that master tongue, as for
instance when the power and majesty of
Macbeth unfolded. His exposition of his
friend John Masefield is always stirring, and
any Irishman having once heard him would
gladly walk across three counties to re-liear
the “Ballad of Cape St. Vincent” and
“Cargoes.”
Later, drinking coffee at the Australia, the
entertainer sat with Mrs. Watson, Miss
Jobson (the lady dominie from the North
Shore line) and Miss Wilson. These two
ladies, not long returned from a two years’
tour across Europe, were not unmindful of
Fox Smith’s “Traveller,” who had a place in
the programme. But while he was a sailor
of the high seas, a tramp across foreign
soil because of the taste for travel with
which he was born, the ladies had journeyed
mostly in a two-seater, alighting anywhere
from Iceland to the toe of Italy at their
will.
Literally thousands of women are being
deprived of their small earnings by the
present depression. Some had small sewing
jobs, others did charing or earned a small
pittance as caretakers or as part-time book-
keepers. Their former employers now do
these jobs themselves. The task of keeping
them and their children going falls largely
on the Benevolent Society, where the food-
relief work has increased by 300 per cent,
during the past few months. _ With its big-
purchases the Benevolent Society can keep
an average family in bare food-necessities
for 7s. per week. But help is needed.
It’s an extraordinary thing that parties
arranged by musical bodies are always pecu-
liarly dull. Not for them the give-and-take
of carefree conversation without introduc-
tion and without prejudice, and as nobody
sees to the mixing of the ingredients each
group remains separate and individual. All
drink their tea in a sort of solemn conclave
and gaze at the guest openly or covertly as
their disposition indicates. _No exception
to this rule was the Trinity College < of
Music libation to Alexander Watson. Being
an afternoon affair the female predominated,
but home-grown elocutionist Lawrence Camp-
bell sounded like the tread of marching batta-
lions when he rose to welcom/e the visitor, who,
against all his instincts, had to hand out a-
speech in reply. “But don’t you ever have
adventures, Mr. Watson?” urged one avid,
fluttersome lass, and you wondered whether
she took the quiet-eyed Alexander for Don
Juan or Tom Mix.
Though the Girl in the Flat Opposite
does her own housekeeping, she is no cook.
Up till this winter the evening meal had been
no problem to her, for she is an inveterate
dancer, and always the hops have been com-
plete with dinner, or combined with a supper
that was practically a meal for a giant-
killer. This year hard times have resulted
in cheaper ball-tickets, and cheaper tickets
have meant light-weight catering, so the
girl has many a time and oft to boil an egg
in the kitchenette before departing on her
night’s amusement. Last week, being duly
invited, she turned up at the Royal Motor
Yacht Club Ball. She took one eyeful of
the table on which knives, forks and spoons
jostled one another in old-time plenitude;
she saw the cooler in which the bottles
softly clinked; then turning to her partner
she cried aloud in her bitterness of spirit:
“Oli, why did I spend tuppence on that
sardine!”
When Harry Tighe said good-bye to Syd-
ney friends he did the thing in style. His
coo-ee went out to about a hundred of
Sydney’s artistic and near-artistic, and the
result was a great roll-up at Doris Fitton’s
Independent Theatre above the Mary Eliza-
beth. Mr. Tighe himself stood at the top of
the stairway to greet his guests, and initiate
them into the beyond which, by the time
the writer arrived, was in twilight, owing
to all the light being centred on the tiny
stage where Erna Living was being Nurse
Doodah, whom the irrepressible Maisie Gay
introduced to Sydney. Two more short
sketches led in no time to supper, which
was in the Mary Elizabeth restaurant and
was set about with claret cup, hock cup,
beaded glasses of whisky and soda, many
eatables, and songs by Richard Parry, such
as “Sea Fever” and “Cargoes.” The singing
was manly and melodic. Le Gay Brereton
was there, a poem in his eyes and a subdued
look on his face; Ruth Bedford sat near by
in a Spanish lace wrap, while Marjorie
Quinn aired real rose point on a spreading
taffeta frock. The party was so comprehen-
sive that even a Fairfax or two had drifted
into the net.
Mrs. P. T. D. Beighton, who, with her
husband, was the motif around which Mrs.
Swinson composed her recent Sunday musi-
cal party, is, although a new settler, no
stranger to Sydney. She is a daughter of
Sir James Hood and was here two or three
years ago with her parents and a sister. She
and her since-acquired husband intend to
make their home at Turramurra.
The missionary habit starts early with
some. Sydney Children’s Hospital has
a young visitor in a girl not yet in her
teens w r ho comes to give a clieer-up to some
of the little patients. She made her appear-
ance 18 months ago when a small friend
was an inmate, became friendly with others
who remained on. and has transferred her
missionary efforts to new arrivals since. When
she visits it is invariably with fruit, toys
and books which she has collected from
friends.
OVERHEARD.
The Critic: “And what did Anne say about,
having to spend her honeymoon in such a tiny
cottage?” , .. ~
The Friend i **0)1, she admitted it wrs *1 tig.it
squeeze.’ *


HOT LEM
DRINK A
|1
ESULTS are definite. You simply take two
or three “ASPRO ” tablets with a hot lemon
drink —go straight to bed, and the usual feverish Cold or ’Flu attack will
be banished while you sleep. You will awake refreshed—free from
aches—pains—sniffling and that “gone at the knees” feeling—ready for a good day’s work or
pleasure. The cost is trifling—the results are amazing, and the scientific reason why “ASPRO” can
do this is because, firstly, after ingestion in the system “ASPRO” is an Anti-Pyretic or Fever
Reducer; and, secondly, it is a powerful Internal Antiseptic and Germicide. “ASPRO” brings
sweet sleep to the sleepless—relieves Rheumatism in one night—soothes away Irritability
and ousts Pain, Colds and ’Flu.
Read This Testimony from Users
Prefers “Aspro” to Powders Distasteful “Aspro” Far Better Woman’s Grateful
Aspirin for Colds, “Aspro”Easy BPleasant Than Powders for Testimony Must
Fevers 8 Rheumatism to Take—Most Effective Headaches 8 Nerve Pains Interest All Women
mm
TT
!!!'ll
• vmih
’ss///srss///ss/ss///sss/ff/s////,f/f Jr////.'////////////////#/ I
i
/
/
mu
M.jniwmm
'A
n
fi
/
Pita
j..v>Vs
D
o
I oc
a:
■v>i
< s
m
ji
m
wm
sfl'f
Rk
M .<0 >
iff
kikt
i
i!
a.
tip
B£
-=Z
# cr : M:
Ml
■ffi
*> fro 3 &*Sf £ £ tf g»
'iimMv&t sM
w*.
W
C/o Mr. Vickery,
Elgin, W.A.,
SO/5/’29.
Dear Sirs,
Many thanks for sample of
“ASPRO” Tablets. I find that
they give certain relief in cases of
COLDS, FEVERS and RHEU-
MATISM. They are all that you
claim them to be, and preferable
to ordinary Aspirin tablets.
Yours faithfully,
R. J. WALLER.
68 Spring Street,
Preston,
October 21, 1929.
Dear Sirs,
I have proved your “ASPRO"
Tablets most effective in every
way. Both easy and pleasant to
take, it is a pleasure to administer
them after the usual distasteful
powders.
Yours sincerely,
( Sgd .) OWEN LULY.
208 Kelvin Grove Road,
Kelvin Grove,
Brisbane, Queensland,
8/J+/’3O.
Dear Sirs,
I have always found “ASPRO”
to be far better in use than powders
for NERVOUS HEADACHES
and NERVE PAINS. I have taken
both and speak from experience.
Yours faithfully,
( Sgd.) M. H. CUTCHEON.
Gembrook Road,
Pakenham, Victoria.
Dear Sirs,
Having used your “ASPRO”
Tablets for some time, I feel it my
duty to thank you for the good
they have done me in the case of
bad Headaches, from which I suffer
at certain times.
I cannot speak too well of them,
and I can recommend them to any-
body who suffers from excessive
Headaches. My aged mother
also uses them, and they do her
good, also my relations. —I am,
( Sgd.j Mrs. ARTHURS.
RUST AID™ MOTHERS
Most children are subject to Tooth-
ache, Earache, Colds and sudden bursts
of Temperature. *ASPRO’ can be
safely given to children so affected. It
will soothe the pain away and quickly
reduce Temperature.
HOW TO
GIVE
ASPRO
TO THE KIDDIES
Two simple methods of giving 'ASPRO’
to the kiddies are: (a) with a little milk;
or (b) break the tablet up and'administer
in a teaspoonful of jam. The dosage is:
Children 3 to 6 years, Vi tablet; 6 to 14
years, .1 tablet; 14 to 18 years, lVi
tablets. ‘ASPRO’ like any other medi-
cine should not be given to babies under
3 years of age without medical advice.
DFGFGHGJHGJH
DFGFGHGJHGJH
ASPRO'WILL not fail you for
HEADACHE
RHEUMATISM
NEURITIS
SLEEPLESSNESS
TOOTHACHE
EARACHE
NEURALGIA
COLDS
INFLUENZA
FEVERISHNESS
TEMPERATURE
MALARIA
DENGUE
SCIATICA
GOUT & LUMBAGO
SORE THROAT
ASTHMA
HAY FEVER
PERIODICAL PAINS
PECULIAR TO
WOMEN
ALCOHOLIC-AFTER
EFFECTS
ALL NERVE PAINS
IRRITABILITY
278/30.
REG
TRADE
AR
12 TABLETS
9“
TABLETS K 3
100 TABLETS
41
OBTAINABLE AT ALL CHEMISTS & STOREKEEPERS


Qte Ribbons
wash with
the Garment,
I
\
H '
JIW
ILLLU
Cash’s Ribbons are
made in daintiest fade-
less Pastel Shades, and
are ideal for Shoulder
Straps and Lingerie.
DFGFGHGJHGJH
Look like new after
repeated washing—ob-
tainable in a variety of
widths.
Ask your Draper for Cash
J. & J. Cash Australian
Weaving Co. Wy. Ltd.
Richmond, Melbourne.
Write for booklet to: —BENGFR'S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
B&NGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
Breast fed.
The healthiest, strongest
children are reared this way.
But as soon as feeding begins
to overtire, mothers should
partially feed with Benger’s
Food. Nursing mothers should
also take Benger’s.
Uegd. TBADB MAKE.
Food
Under
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE '
CHeslleidsiedi
Australasian Agents—
S wift & Company uinitad
SYDNEY.
To H.M
Kin*
C>eor£eV
JVLVIiJiV-
f
sv 'm
i
CHAMPACKS
Oiarieslieid3i6>
Reims
X 1
'SsaagCf'
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Asrer.ts—
SWIFT £ COMPANY LIMITED, Sytlnsy.
Melbourne
Chatter.
The V.A.T.C. meeting at Caulfield on
Saturday was only fairly well patronised so
far as the more expensive parts of the
course were concerned. Very considerately
the rain held off, so no complaint could be
brought against tne weathei', but it was an
off day for favorites, and punters lamented
bitterly. In the committee ladies’ box were
Mrs. Hayden Starke, all in black with a bril-
liant oi’namont cheering her velour inillinery ;
Mrs. Clive Leonard, in furs of beige color,
topped by a brown felt hat; and Mrs. E. M.
Pearce, in sappliire-blue with squirrel furs.
Mrs. A. V. Hiskens was there with Mrs.
A. F. Hiskens. The secretary of the Moonee
Valley R. C. that day took over also the
secretaryship of the V.A.T.C. Mrs. Richard
Linton received congratulations on having
recovered from an unusual accident at the
Malvern mayoral ball. A sudden jerk in the
opening of a gay bonbon above the official
supper table caused some loose bricks to
mingle with the shower of balloons and
streamers that descended, and Mrs. Linton
got hurt. Mrs. Leslie Stuart was present in
a light tweed suit of cocoa-hue. Mrs. Russell
Gabb wore with her enamel-green topcoat
an astrachau-trimmed green cloth toque.
Mayoress Luxton, fur wrapped, was accom-
panied by Mrs. U. ,T. Nicholas.
The weather luck of Moonee Valley held
good for the race-meeting that benefited St.
Vincent’s Hospital, and the sun shone for
the greater part of the afternoon. The
cheaper parts of the course were well pat-
ronised and the entries constituted a record
for such affairs. Lord and Lady Somers
were welcomed by the executive of the
women’s committee of St. Vincent’s. To
his Ex. was allotted the task of handing to
Mr. L. G. Lock the gold cup, presented by
Mrs. James Alston for the owner of the
winning gee-gee in St. Vincent’s Handicap—•
Amanthus. Lady Somers wore a green
leather coat with a lapel posy of orchids and
lily-of-the-valley, and a green, felt hat. She
presented a gold-mounted whip to the rider
of Amanthus, A. Wilson. Mayor and
Mayoress Luxton, she in mink wrap and
brown hat; Mrs, T. J. Ryan, in pale grey
suit and millinery; Mrs. J. Alston, Mrs.
R. J. Dunlea, Mrs. W. Rogers Thomson,
Mrs. A. V. Hiskens and Mrs. H’arold Ander-
son were on the lawn.
Lord and Lady Somers dodged away from
the St. Vincent’s Hospital race-meeting to
unveil a tablet at the Homoeopathic Hospi-
tal. This brass plate commemorates the en-
dowing of a cot at the institution as a
memento of the long service of Mrs. J.
Walker, a foundation member of the Ladies'
Aid Society of the institxition. The presi-
dent, Mrs. H. S. K. Ward, handed over £5OO
collected to. ensure the upkeep of the cot
for all time. Last week’s presentation was
the sixth of such endowments. His Ex.
paid a well-deserved tribute to the work
clone by women on behalf of hospitals.
The Wii'eless Exhibition at Melbourne
Town Hall was duly opened on Friday. The
deed was done “by the Lord Mayor of London.
The Bulletin was on the stage on the
occasion, but the Lord Mayor wasn’t. It
being about six in the morning, London, time,
he was probably in bed wondering what the
day would bring forth and softly whistling
“When a baby like you meets a guy like me,
it’s whoopee.” The opening was indicated by
the flaming up of a Neon light sign with a
loud click, as if a switch had been turned on
under the stage. Had the Lord Mayor over-
slept or the beam stopped for a spot in
Bucharest or Rio or somewhere, a switch
under the stage might possibly have done the
job, as a kindhearted management would
hardly have cared to disappoint the multi-
tude, and basically one feat is as miraculous
as the other.
However*, the Lord Mayor and the Beam
did their stuff perfectly, and to show there
was no deception the pair obliged with an
encore. Then Mr. Apperley, of Amalga-
mated Wireless, said “Say” in Morse to
London and London said, “Well, what is
it?” and a loyal message of thanks in the
shape of little holes in a punched slip was
put through at four times the speed of the
fastest Domain orator, but not fast enough
for London, w*ho broke in and remarked,
“Up ten words, please!” There was a minute
model on the stage of the Beam station at
Italian, which transmitted messages across
the hall to a receiver situated in the gallery,
and there wei*e announcers talking i.ito
microphones here and there telling the rest of
Australia all about it. It was a.i afternoon
of marvels, but it went to shoxy how quickly
common humanity can become sated with
marvels. In one corner of the show the
Television and Radio Laboratories, Ltd. ? were
engaged in receiving the photo of a girl on
a thing like a gramophone. She was a very
pretty girl with a nice smile and a neat man
eolle wave, but the effect of the transmission
was spoilt by an onlooker w T ho asked “Where
did she come from?” “Over a telephone line
from our laboratories at South Melbounie,”
said the op. rator px-oudly. “Oh,” -aid the
inquirer bitt. rly, “I thought she came from
London”; and a portion of the crowd hastily
departed, apparently to ask for their money
back.
To complete the official proceedings another
Lord Mayor, this time the local one, delivered
a speech in which he remarked that Victoria
had the “densest listening-in nonulation in
Australia.” It is feared that this statement
was inspired by the broadcasting co., which
has been smarting terribly und r the insults
levelled at 'it by correspond, nts of the
“Argus.” In the evening the Mayoi-s of
Montreal (Canada), Suva (Fiji) and Wel-
lington (M.L.) successfully doubled the turn
of the Lord Mayor of London. The show,
which is packed with matter of interest to
radio enthusiasts, will remain open till
Ftiday.
The Old Sti*athcdnians’ reunion at the
Wattle Park Chalet was a charity affair, to
swell the Lud Mayor’s Fund. It is a pity
the chalet is so far out of town, for it is
a most picturesque place for a dance, the
old English style tearoom providing a charm-
ing setting for youth and pretty frocks.
The principals of the school, Mrs. F. M.
Livingston and Miss H. Hughes, were invited,
and Una Osborne, president of the 0.5. A.,
who was in turquoise blue taffeta, handed
them posies. Jean Austin, hon.. sec., danced
in amber-toned moire, and Dulcie Berriman,
who chose lemon-colored georgette, checked
the returns.
A committee of Brighton women gave, a
ball at the local town hall the other evening
to help the District Nursing Society. Mrs.
H. E. Morgan, the leading spirit of the hop,
was gowned in chenille-embossed georgette
in russet shadings. Meryl Millikin, in
figured chiffon, and Elizabeth Pearson, in
ruby-red lace, were joint hon. secs., and Mrs.
R. C. Young looked after the treasury.
The blue and white of St. Patrick’s
College were woven among the decorations of
St Kilda Town Hall on a recent evening,
when, secretaried as usual by J. F. Carroll
and Arthur Adams, the Old Collegians
Association’s dance was held. About 000
mingled in the jazz, and frocks were mostly
pale green or pink. Many invited gusts were
welcomed by president J. L. Stark and his
wife. Mrs. Stark’s coral-p nk raiment was
set off’ by a presentation bouquet. Mayor
and Mayoress Robinson were there, she in
black velvet ornamented with gold tissue.
Profits went to the Newman Scholarship fund
of the college.
Cora O’Farrell, pictured here by Ruskin,
is a dramatic soprano, a product of the
Albert-street Con. Fritz Hart, who. has
helped to direct
the maiden’s
studies, has
advised her to
go to Vienna
for a final
"polishing.. Be-
sides having a
voice of un-
usual range—
some critics
are doubtful
whether she
should he
classed as a
contralto or a
soprano—-Miss
O’Farrell is a
good all-round
musician, and
plays a fiddle
in the Sym-
phony Orches-
tra. She has
had some pro-
fessional experience in grand opera and
other musical productions under the Firm’s
segis. A complimentary concert at the Town
Hall on the 30th is being engineered for
the young lady by J. and N. Tait.
Doi’othy Packer, who presides over a
bunch of young workers for the Queen Vic-
toria Hospital, was chief engineer of a dance
at the Bambalina, Malvern, in aid of the
institution. Mayor and Mayoress McCulloch,
of Caulfield, and Lt.-Col. and Mrs. Forrest
were among the dancers. Dulcie Roberts,
hon. sec. of the hop, danced in a frock of
pale daffodil hue, and Rita Yorston, hon.
treas., Eileen Davies, Vera Russel and D.
Pascoe helped with the management. Miss
Packer wore begonia red satiix.
All was ship-shape at No. 9 on Friday
night when Commander Langford and
officers of the R.A.N. Reserve depot gave
a dance. Nautical emblems and a profusion
of flags and bunting lent a flavor of the
sea to the attractive furnishings of the recep-
tion- and ballrooms, and trophies won in
battle and sport were exhibited. Mrs. Lang-
fo d who In Id a bunch of scarlet blooms
against her gold lace and lame gown, assisted
her husband with the welcoming of guests,
Mollie Langford wore lace that matched
the hue of her amber necklace. Rear-Admiral
and Mrs. Munro Kerr were dancers, she in
chiffon of lilac tint. Mrs. Coxon, in black
luce, accompanied her Major-General, and
the aviation branch was represented by Air-
Commodore Williams.
Some of the iiresswomen of the cit,
lunclud Mrs. T. A. Tabart at the Lyceum
Club prior to the family’s return to Hobart,
There was a flutter of apprehension when
it was discovered that the party would
number 13, but coinmonsense prevailed over
superstition and the meal was a very cheery
one. Tink roses and sweet-peas decked the
tabie. and there were forget-me-nots and
pansies for the guest.
This smiling lady is Mrs. J. A. Lyons,
wife of the Postmaster-General. She looks
after her husband, her home and nine chil-
dren and still
finds time to
make speeches
at Labor
gather ings.
Her mother,
Mrs. W. Bur-
nell, was an
e n t h n siastic
supporter of
the Labor
cause, and five
years ago
Mr s. Lyons,
h p r mother
and Mr. Lyons
were all can-
didates for
election in dif-
ferent div i-
ions. Both
Indies were
defeated. Mrs.
Lyons is a
bright and
fluent speaker, and evinces a keen sense of
humor. Prior to her max*r'age she attended
the Teachers' Training College in Tasmania,
and for a while she was a teacher. Her
p dagogic career was cut short when, at 18,
she married Mr. Lyons, who was a teacher,
too, before he went into politics. Mr. and
Mrs. Lyons have been residing in Melbourne
for about six months. They intend return-
ing to their home in Devonport early next
month.
The Field Naturalists’ Club is rejoicing
over the success of a two days’ jubilee show
at St. Kilda Town Hall. The organisers
searched far and wide for entries, which
comprised mineral and metal specimens,
gorg.ous moths, beetles and butterflies, won-
derful shells and some native animals and
birds, still—thanks to the taxidermist’s art
—beautiful in death. There was also a
little menagerie of live Australian animals.
Through the bars of their cages, if so in-
clined, one could poke a fierce-looking brown-
and-white tiger cat, a white possum, a
carpet-snake or a Gippsland earthworm.
There was also a mopoke that sat motion-
less with upraised head and seemingly blind
eyes behind its wire-netting. B;;sie, a fine,
healthy two-year-old wombat, was sulking.
She had been having a splendid time, run-
ning around the hall, and resented imprison-
ment. In the aquarium, among other weird
creatures, were _some Japanese goldfish of
the fantail variety, their rudders dividing
into what looked like four uneven draperies
of orange gossamer. There were also the
hideous little amphibians known as axolotls
-silvery-white freaks whose red feather-like
gills, three on each side, rise and fall with
each breath. They possess four legs and
are reputed to climb trees. Small boys
gazed with longing eyes upon many lazy
Chinese tortoises. A colony of ants from
Queensland busied themselves with home-
building in perfect content despite the
change of climate, and orange-colored cater-
pillars with black spots, rejoicing in the
fearsome name of cactoblastis, showed how
they destroy prickly-pear. A fine display
of native flowers rounded off a most inter-
esting show, the first of just this kind in
Australia.
France’s national day was celebrated
by the Alliance Francaise with a hop in
the lower ballroom of the Town Hall. The
strains of the Marseillaise announced the
arrival of the Consul for France, Mons.
Forcioli. The tricolor flag hung in a con-
spicuous position and a red-white-and-blue
favor was handed to each guest. The
directors of the proceedings were Madame
Gay, . vice-president of the society, whose
draperies of grey chiffon were relieved by
a garnishing of rhinestones, and Madame
Cockerton, hon. sec., whose flesh-pink
georgette frock was fashioned with a frill
side-tracking from waist to hemline. G.
A. Watson was hon. treas.—his usual r6le.
The frocking was charming, and long white
gloves made a general appearance. One
maiden introduced a novel note by wearing
pale green kid ones with her ivory taffeta
frock. Mrs. Mortill’s robe was decorated
with crystal and ruby-red beads; Mrs. Wat-
son was in a well-cut gown of rosy-tinted
moire, and Mrs. Thorold Harper looked smart
in a caped frock of prune-colored lace. Dr.
and Mrs. Leon Jona were there, she in a
blue gown with a tracery of tiny blue
s quins. Lieut.-Col. and Mrs. Wright, Eliza-
beth and Ann Stawell, Sheila Morell in green
chiffon, Monica Starke and Valerie Hennessy
were others who flitted about the ballroom.
Margaret Nicholson and Charles Scrimshaw
gave an exhibition of the latest steps.
There was standing-room only, and not
much of that, at the Royal on Saturday night
for the premiere of the musical comedy
“The New Moon.” Plenty of pretty dresses
and effective stage settings are features of
the show. The hoop-skirt and powdex-ed-wig
period of feminine finery is interestingly ex-
ploited. Marie Bremner looks a picture in
a crystal-embroidered white gown, and
equally dainty in organdie splashed with pink
flowers, worn with a pink sash. The French
nautical uniform with vivid blue coats, red
and white jerseys and white duck pants forms
a vivid background in several scenes. Another
bright color effect is obtained in an island
scene, in which tones of yellow and pink
prevail. Twenty-four brides in white satin
frocks and Spanish head-dresses dance into
this charming picture. There wfere piles of
flowei’s for all the principals,., and George
Highland, returning thanks, had to scramble
over a hill of horticulture. Many elaborate
frocks were sported in the stalls and d.-c.,
and there were numei’ous handsome wraps
with great storm collars of white fur. Dr.
and Mrs. J. Merrillees, Mr. and Mrs. A.
Chirnside, jun., Mrs. S. Bruntoh, the Percy
Blackbourns, she in green with decper-liued
velvet coat, the Fred Bishops and Mrs. Dale,
Mrs. F. Grimwade and Mrs. W, Merry were
in the first-night audience.
Leon Gordon moved his props from the
Comedy to the King’s on Saturday for a
revival of “Scandal.” The show is elabo-
rately staged, with a bedroom that is a
pink dream. Mary Macgregor, the leading
iady, wears an almond-green top-coat with a
mink collar. The sleeves finish at the
elbow to reveal under ones of chiffon with
cuffs of fur. In another scene Miss Mac-
gregor sports a white satin gown with a
seismographic hemline. Ann Davis, as the
mother of the rebellious maiden, wraps about
her pale gold satin gown a square shawl of
orange tint traced with gold bugles and
stitehery. Nancy Gordon makes entrance in
a dainty frock of organdie muslin.
When the cable-tram set out on its final
journey on the North Fitzi*oy line at mid-
night recently, a crowd stayed out of bed for
the occasion. The funeral procession was
accompanied by a hundred of so mouimers
sitting on the hearse, so to speak. Another
multitude followed on foot cheering lustily,
and the mourning coaches included dozens of
motor-cars. Passers-by stopped and solemnly
removed their hats as the cortege went by,
and hundreds assisted in the last sad office of
pushing the quaint contraption into the depot.
Mr. Camei’on, always the Scotch realist,
seized a moment of deep public emotion to
announce that the discarded vehicles could
be bought for garden kiosks and seaside
bungalows at £l5 apiece. Melbourixe has a
genuine affection for its ancient means of
transport, l-ooted in an instinctive feeling
that it stood for a more leisurely and digni-
fied form of existence than the modern age
of bustle.
An estate-agent and a bailiff struck trouble
in one of the subux’bs recently. They had
gone to the house of a woman to distrain
on her furniture for rent. The lady rushed
screaming out of the house, no doubt with
an obscure idea of rousing the neighbors
against the intruders. She “succeeded better
than she had expected. An unemployed
procession, en route for Parliament House,
happened to be passing axxd lent a ready ear
to her argument. The bailiff was driven out
and escoi'ted to the railway station; the
estate-agent was unmercifully belabored and
was eventually rescued by a motorist in a
damaged condition. By a coincidence the
unemployed were on their way to the Pre-
mier to demand a general moratorium.
A very youthful bride of last week intro-
duced something new iii the di’essing of her
attendants. Her three ’maids wore White
and pink. Long full-frilled skirts of white
lace were joined to pointed satin bodices.
Pink hats and tiny posies of blue and roseate
blooms were additions. A couple of small
trainbearers, in Kate Greenaway attire of
pink, with sashes of forget-me-not hue,
guarded the trailing satin of the leading lady.
The popularity of glass beads and similar
.trinkets as a means of femiixine adornment
was exemplified last week when oixe of the
emporiums marked down all its imitation
jewellei-y. The shop was ci'ammed all day,
and when this Page wandered in just before
closing time, all that remained xvas an array
of empty glass cases.


COMMONWEALTH LOAN
INTEREST AT 6 % UP to 15th NOVEMBER, 1938
You can now invest in a Commonwealth Loan on the above terms.
The Loan offers every attraction—an excellent interest return and the soundest of security.
It also provides for every class of investor —small and large. You can buy a Bond for £lO or £1000; or you can buy Stock for £lOO
or any multiple of £ 1 0 above £ 1 00. ,
Subscriptions may be paid in one amount, or by easy instalments, the last of which is due on September 1, 1930.
Interest is FREE OF STATE INCOME TAX.
Full particulars from Banks, Savings Banks, Money Order Post Offices, Members of Stock Exchanges.
CLOSING SHORTLY.
Commonwealth Treasury, Canberra, F.C.T.
J. H. SCULLIN, Treasurer.
THE PASSAGE
By VANCE PALMER
ILLUSTRATIONS BY ARIA
CHAPTER XXXIII ( Continued).
“XTO,” Lew, “but I’ll be making
]_ \| tracks in the morning. My little
spree’s come to an end, Mick, so
you’ll have to pick up another offsider.
There’s a truck going in to-morrow, isn’t
there?”
Boylan looked at him steadily, his smoky,
steel-grey eyes concealing their acute dis-
appointment.
“There i 5.... Pity a big, husky brute
like you, Callaway, hasn’t got' the brains
to see when he’s on a good thing, though.
I’ll never get another mate who’s such a
whale for hard work, and you’ll never get
such a chance of easy money. But it’s
no use wasting breath in argument.”
A couple of days later Lew was on the
train going first east and then south, a
journey that seemed endless and was un-
relieved by casual talk, for he had once
more drawn into himself. But something
had come to him in those months of care-
less, unthinking living among men who
took life lightly as a game, cutting their
losses with a laugh and spending their
winnings freely. He was renewed, ready
to face anything that was coming.
Dot was on the station to meet him, a
tall, willowy figure in white, but he found
it hard to take in all the details of Hughie’s
disaster as he sat opposite her in the buffet
making a heavy meal and feeling dull-
witted and unshaven, his mind full of
blurred pictures of the countxy over which
he had come. Dot was bubbling with
delight at seeing him again, yet there was
a shadow in her clear, transparent eyes
whenever they rested on anything for a
moment. Hughie had been going through
a bad time, it appeared, and there was
danger of a nervous breakdown; his partner
had swindled him out of nearly everything
he owned, and on top of this there had
been a fire that had destroyed his ’buses
and his small fleet of cars. There was
difficulty about th,e house, too; a few
months before it had been mortgaged
heavily, almost as soon as they had got
the deeds. And Hughie was so upset he
was drinking like a fish.
“He seems to have lost grip of things,”
said Dot. “Comes home in a black mood
and won’t talk to anyone, not even to
mother. Just shuts himself up in his room
and lies staring at the ceiling. Hughie’s
not like you, Lew—he carries everyone
along when things are going well, but it’s
so desperately easy to throw him out of his
stride.”
Lew, whose mind was still dazed with
the pictures flitting before it, said abstrac-
tedly :
“There’s the insurance. He must have
had the garage properly covered. It ought
to set him on his feet again.”
“I don’t know,” mused Dot. “He talks
as if it was the dead finish with him. No
one can get anything out of him, really.”
Something happened in Lew’s brain, as if
a light had been suddenly flashed on and
off again. The woman sitting at a table
in the corner, with a couple of suitcases
beside her chair, had turned her head slowly
toward the door as if she were expecting
someone, then let her eyes return to the
vase of Iceland poppies in front of her. She
was dressed in a grey coat and skirt, a
grey cloche was pulled down tight over her
head, so that to Lew there was an un-
familiarity in her turned back. Although
he had been looking at her for over a
minute he had not recognised Lena till
she made that movement.
He could feel the blood mount up from
his neck and his tongue fumbling uncer-
tainly when Dot asked him some question
or other. For a moment his impulse was
to rise and go over to the other table.
“It’s Lena!” a voice was saying inside
him. “Your wife. She’s heard you were
coming back and she’s here to meet you.”
But the rush of blood to his brain ebbed
away, leaving it cold and clear. Absurd to
think Lena was there to meet him! She
was obviously ready for a journey, her
luggage beside her, her ticket in her glove
—or in someone else’s wallet, most likely!
At the thought the glow of intimate con-
tact passed, and even as he sat staring at
the neat shoulders he was carried away
into another world, incredibly remote. Her
hat, her clothes, her luggage were thosh
a stran ge woman, a woman he had never
kno 'Y n - He had no sense of her belonging
him J no feeling that they had shared a
llfe together. All they had gone through
amounted to less than nothing. She was
as separate as when she had come to him
he , would have found hard to call
L u ~ , , , ,
r et, curiously enough, now that she had
drawn away from him, he was conscious
of her attraction. There was her long, lazy
body, her wa of hold ing her bojbsh head
tilted slig ht!y on one side, the white skin
of her neck that showed beneath her hat,
He could ad m>re all these things now with-
out their affecting his senses. A strange
impersonality had taken possession of him;
he didn ’t love Lena or hate her. He could
look at her as at some chance woman in the
street
But he didn’t want to risk any encounter
there - Neithel ’ of them had anything left
to say to one another.
“Mother’s not the same,” Dot was mur-
murjng. “She’s grown old suddenly—never
wan t s to go out anywhere but to see Aunt
Rache] . And they haven’t got much in
common. Mother didn’t count on anyone
very much but Hughie; the world was his
bE spaced ° f “ fi “ ed “““
his chair suddenl >'' his
“ C ome on, then. If you’re ready, we’ll
o- 0 ” y
« B ut I wasn’t ’ ready,” said Dot, follow-
j ng hi m ruefully. “Why are you so deadly
J
Jimmy Packington.
May Harland.
Elijah Moon.
“Thirty Pieces of Silver” is the first long story ever written about newspaper life in Australia. Montague
Grover, who writes it, knows every bump on the road, every twist and turn in it. He shows how this fine newspaper
man, the chief male character in his tale, was trained for the job—and it wasn’t a University training either: some
of it was in the cokeworks of C. J. Grey and Co.; some of it in the South Coast surf; some of it in the boxing ring.
But it was all necessary to the finished journalistic product—even the little love adventures. Then, after experience
of a country office, came work in Sydney—and in developing his fascinating story Mr. Grover lets you see what a great
newspaper staff is like and how the work of the office is done and by what manner of men. You get glimpses of Bohemia,
too. The story covers an extraordinarily wide range of interests—and it all sparkles under Monty Grover’s brilliant touch.
abrupt, Lew? Jumping always from one
thing to another. I don’t believe you were
listening to a word I said.”
He didn’t hear her. He was looking at a
man in a shaggy overcoat and crushed felt
hat who was coming in at the door carrying
a suitcase. For a moment passion welled
up in him, primitive, spontaneous, from
some deep spring beyond the reach of his
reason; his very arm ached to shoot out
and wipe that unthinking smile off the
fellow’s face. The spasm passed like a
wave curling up and breaking in foam.
Craig hadn’t recognised him or even seen
him; his eyes were fixed on the corner
where Lena was sitting, and his dark, ruddy
face had no preoccupation but the question
of whether he had time for a satisfying
meal before the train left. Porters were
already wheeling up luggage for the Western
mail. There was confusion on the plat-
form, people hurrying to and fro with
rugs and suitcases.
Before he realised it, Lew was sitting
®Sside Dot in a taxi, whirling down an in-
dine towa.rds the Bight; it was as if an
explosion had occurred in his mind, leav-
ing a stillness in which Dot’s last words
echoed faintly. He said, almost as though
talking to himself:
“No, I’ll own up I wasn’t listening, Dot.
That woman in the station cafe—you
couldn’t see her face because your backs
were turned to one another —but it was
Lena. We’ve broken for good now. Made
up our minds to take different tracks.”
Dot didn’t turn her head, but squeezed
his right hand with her left.
“I thought there must be something like
that. Even mother guessed and was
worried about it. But—oh Lew, I can’t be-
lieve it’s final. People simply can’t forget
they’ve lived together.”
He said in a matter-of-fact voice:
“They can—more easily than you’d
think. Lena’s gone off with Craig. I hope
to God he’ll stick to her.”
Dot blinked and looked out of the
window.
“Poor old Lew!”
But he laughed a little harshly.
“No flowers, Dot! Sounds as if you
thought I wanted to hold her and couldn’t.
That wasn’t the way things worked out.
Lena and I had come to a dead-end long
before she met Craig again, but deep down
he was always more to her than I was.
First love! There must be something in
it. Even if he’s ’ a brute to her, she’ll be
happy enough as long as he sticks Now
talk about Hughie.”
He felt he had definitely put one part
of his life behind him. Yet life was con-
tinuous; something went on. His heart
leapt as he saw the river, the gulls swoop-
ing round the shipping at the quay, drop-
ping their wild cries, and a little boat
slugging out to set, laden with timber
nearly to the water-line....
CHAPTER XXXIV
u _ , -p, '
..,,,,, . , „ . ,
Hughie can t stand hard knocks, said
Anna, as she sat on the porch with some
knitting in her lap. He s not tough, like
what we are. And life’s been easy to him
till now, with everyone making a fuss over
him and everything he touched turning to
money. You never could tell Hughie that
if once he missed his footing all those flash
friends of his would drop him like a hot
coal; he took the lot of them at their face-
value, and he treated that waster of a
Fenner like he would a brother. Now he’s
left up to his neck in trouble. There’s not
one of the crowd he drank and went joy-
riding with him would lift a hand to help
him out.”
There was a hardness in her eyes, a
touch of acid in her voice. The urban
suavity had fallen from her and she had
relapsed into the solid, square-planted
countrywoman, suspicious of the world,
aggressive toward strangers, jealously
absorbed in the interests of her own family,
But she was growing old. The once dark
hair was nearly grey; one of her legs had
swollen, making it hard for her to get about
without a stick; she sat heavily in her
chair, knitting a small garment for Mamie’s
coming baby, and looking occasionally, with
a curious groping after comradeship, at
Lew who was smoking on the steps. Under-
neath her words was the refrain:
“You and I know what the world is,
Lew. We’ve been through, more than
enough together. Not like these others.”
Lew could feel her eyes through the back
of his head, and was aware of a subtle in-
fluence drawing his mother and himself
together again. He was sorry for her. She
was not so self-dependent as she seemed,
and from the first moment he had come
back he had seen she was looking to him
for support. Hughie’s collapse had been
r. bad shock to her, shattering her con-
fidence. It wasn’t merely his financial
disasters; those had been merely a matter
of bad luck; but she had lost her whole-
hearted faith in his character and in the
star that shone over him. Until now she
had had an almost mystical belief in
Hughie’s essential rightness and his power
to make all things work together for good.
What if she had been banking on an illu-
sion!
An atmosphere of depression permeated
the house, a queer heaviness, as though the
very furniture felt the weight of the mort-
gage that was hanging over it. Hughie had
g one out that morning as usual in his car
and p robab i y wouldn’t return till midnight,
though he knew Lew was coming home.
And Dot, though sweet and considerate of
others, hadn t enough robustness of spirit
ma k e herself f e lt at a crisis. She was
continuallv at home nOWj having sold her
, -, , , • •, , , , „ ...
costumiere s business; it had owed all its
f, c , cess *° Marme ’ told Lew, and had
falea f as soon as Mamie married. She
business herself, and was no good at
d “ act she hated town, and had nevei
been really contented there,
“I get dreaming of open country and
trees,” she said, a queer nostalgia in her
eyes. “Just now when the silky oak’s out
the very sight of it makes me wild to get
away bush somewhere. Dad’s old walk-
about feeling! I can’t leave mother,
though.”


Tried
For more than 136 years public
opinion has endorsed the value of
Rowland’s Macassar Oil as a means
of keeping the hair in perfect con-
dition and preventing thin or grey
hair.
In bottles, ot
O h e m i sts,
Stores and
Hair dressers.
Red for dark
hair; golden
for fair or
grey hair.
9:
Maitffs
Macassar ©ll
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.1.,
ENGLAND. c.t.p.67.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know —from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
federal mutual chambers,
129 PITT .STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
It looked as if the tide that had carried
the Callaways away from the Passage and
seemed likely to bear them far, had already
receded, leaving them stranded and sepa-
rate. There was Aunt Rachel, fading away
quietly in her little cottage at Kedron and
gradually losing memory of her sons and
daughters. The boys never came down
from the North, and Essie had lately gone
west with her husband, who had bought a
country hotel. As for Anna’s family, Fred
had given up the sea and was settled with
his wife on an orchard in the Blue Moun-
tains, but no one ever heard from him
except for a stray card at Christmas. It
was accepted by the others that the woman
he had married was nearly twice as old
as he was, and not as rich as they had
thought, for he had spoken of having a
hard struggle to pay off his place. Then
there was Marnie, successfully established
in a neat, modern villa at Toowong, but
very much impressed by the importance ot
her husband’s family and the relative in-
significance of her own. No. tug of con-
flicting loyalties worried Marnie. Once she
had changed her name she was ready to
put all her old associations behind her,
like the sharp little business woman she was.
Lew, lying awake in Hughie’s room at
the end of the verandah, wondered where
all the family tenacity had gone that had
once made people talk of the Callaways as
a fiercely united clan. Were they like
some cluster of anemones, that lost their
vitality when prized off their parent rock l
Or had their early efforts to get their heads
above water exhausted them and left them
bloodless and feeble-willed? He was con-
scious of untapped sources of power m
himself, but he was worried by what he
heard of Hughie. Why should the boy
throw in the towel at the first real blow
of bad luck? Why couldn’t he pull him-
Basil Wellington.
Alma Grey.
Mrs. Blessington
S';EH VEfSrE-r;. ys
out of the storyf is a mother to most of the youngsters who grow op in the N.S.W. South Coast coal ‘own
which the firs/half of the story is cast. Elijah Moon is its soap-box °rator-and much more than that Monty
Grover develops his story. The opening chapters will be printed next week (July iUJ.
self together and make another start?
Neither Fenner’s embezzlement nor the fire
ought to have _put him down and out.
There was the insurance money; it surely
would provide enough to set him up in
business again.
But he was depressed by the feeling that
brooded over the house. Even his mother
seemed to have lost grip of things.
“You’re the only one of us that always
knew what you were doing, Lew,” she had
repeated. “Never let anything push you
out of your own track. Kept on steady
and sure, with your eyes fixed straight
ahead ”
Queer the shock it had given him to hear
her talk like that! He hadn’t expected it
from her of all people. And he had never
been able to look back over his own life
that way: when he thought about it now
he was overwhelmed by a sense of failure
and loss. Peter given to the sea; Lena
sitting with her back to him, waiting for
Craig; the blind impulse that had sent him
wandering and driven him to that remote
camp among the spinifex! And the busi-
ness he had built up —what of that. rOl
months he had hardly given a thought to
it, abandoned it as completely as if he
had scuttled the two boats with his own
hands. Would McEvoy and old Tom be
able to carry on by themselves? He was
doubtful if they could, and until then he
hadn’t cared a jot; what was there to work
for, anyhow? A man plugged on with a
sort of rhythm till something cut across
his days, and then he stopped; but was it
possible to surrender to the same rhythm
again? , _ „ ,
Something had come over the Callaways!
For the first time for years he thought of
himself merely as one of the clan, drawing
on a common tide of energy that had risen
for a while and then ebbed. Images of the
family, as it had appeared to other people s
eyes, came back to his own. A tight, com-
pact little group, any two of them having
the same look even when their features
were utterly different!
“You can always tell a Callaway All
the Callaways got webbed feet.... They
stick together those oysters
on the same mangrove stump.”
Queer echoes of talk, tha.t might have
been meaningless, after all!
The sound of a car caught him on the
edge of sleep, and Hughie came unsteadily
along the verandah, fumbling for the light
as he reached the door. The glare revealed
him in' a muddy motoring-coat, standing
with blinking eyes at the door, a bottle
bulging from his pocket and half a meat-
pie in his hand. He was sober, or nearly
so, but there was a blotched look about his
face as if he had been drinking a good
deal lately, and his chin was unshaven; there
was a little too much self-consciousness in
the way he greeted Lew. And for once
his smile had no humor in it. It was
mechanical, a mere twitching of the
muscles.
“Sorry I wasn’t home when you came,
Lew. Had to meet a man early in the
evening, but he slipped me up and I
couldn’t track him down till near mid-
night.... They’ve told you about my
smash-up, have they? Not a bad splash
for one small business.
He was forcing a joviality into his voice,
which was husky and strained, as it lie
were living on the edge of his nerves. Lew
sat up m bed and reached for his pipe,
This wasnt Hughie, he felt; it was a
stuffed figure he was creating to fob off
unwanted sympathy,
“Take an end of the bed me
the strength of it all,” he said. “I didn’t
hear anything up there. Didn’t know about
the fire, even, till I got Dot’s wire. What
about this Fenner? Really cleaned you
out, did he?”
“Mopped up everything he could lay Ins
hands on,” replied Hughie lightly. “He
was going off for a three weeks’ holiday,
but he was on the way to America before
I woke up. For months he’d been getting
the threads of the business into his hands
and jockeying me into other affairs. Motor-
racing and flying kites for aviation com-
panies! I don’t blame him. Do other
people, or they’ll do you. He was a
swine and I was a mug; that s all theie
was to it.”
He was munching at his pie, the same
mechanical grin on his face, dropping flakes
of pastry as he lounged on the end of the
bed. Lew watched him steadily, a shadow
in his eyes.
“Still I don’t see why he should want to
run amok. If he had a share in the busi-
ness, and it was paying”
“It wasn’t,” said Hughie promptly. “That
stage had been passed long ago. We a
too many ’buses on the roads, and there
were other companies springing up. It
isn’t the people who do the pioneering that
reap the profits. You ought to know that,
Lew. They’re only the poor devils who
open tracks for others to travel. Fenner
wasn’t going to be a poor devil, though.
Got out with all he could lay his hands
on, and left me the debts.... They say you
have to buy your experience. My God,
I’m giving a thumping big price for mine!”
Lew was staring at the darkened comer
of the room and sucking at his pipe.
“Funny that fire should have broken out
just after he’d gone!”
“Yes, it’s funny,” agreed Hughie, with a
laugh.
A change came suddenly over his face
and he said with a quick rush of words:
“I’d clear out to America, too, quick and
lively if I hadn’t the family on my back.
Every move I make I have to consider
them. Like some old snail weighted down
with its shell A lovely contract, isn’t
it? You were lucky to get your share of
the carrying over early, Lew. And then
you didn’t want to do anything but stick
in the one place, anyhow. You’ve never
felt the weight like I have.”
There was a trace of malice in his jerky
voice and strained eyes. Lew blinked, but
he only said quietly:
“Perhaps I didn’t.... But what’s the
point of this talk about clearing out? Your
home’s here, and you’d feel a fish out of
water anywhere else. Why not have a
shot at building up another business in a
small way? There’s the insurance.”
“No, I’m damned if there is.”
“What?” Lew jerked out in surprise.
“You weren’t covered?”
“I was. Covered head over ears. But
the swine. won’t pay up. There’s been a
good many fires lately. They talk about
an inquiry.”
A sulky scowl came to his face and he
avoided Lew’s eyes. He bent down and
unlaced his shoes, kicking them to the
further end of the room.
“What?” Lew was beginning. “You
didn’t?”
“Yes I did,” broke in Hughie passion-
ately. “What else could I do when I had
all those liabilities hanging over me? I
wanted ready money, and the chance of
making a fresh start. Good Lord, isn’t the
same thing done every day? But my lucks
out—l must have run over a Chinaman
some time or other. If I push them now
they’ll put me up for arson with intent
to defraud; get me sent down for two or
three years. There was a little bootmaker s
near the garage and he lost some out-
buildings and stock that weren’t covered
with insurance. He’d swear anything to get
back on me.”
He was walking up and down the room
in his socks, his hair rumpled, his shirt
open at the throat. Suddenly he began
tugging at the pocket of the overcoat on
the floor and pulled out a bottle, bringing
a couple of glasses over from the wasti-
stand. , . , ~. ... ,
“Arson!” he said mockingly. A hell of
a crime that is! Didn’t you ever want to
pour a little petrol over those old boats of
yours, Lew, when money was tight?”
Lew didn’t answer. He was thinking that
Hughie’s shoulders looked humped now
that his padded coat was off, and that
there was a puffiness about his skin. Once
there had been a springiness in all his
movements, and his gestures were as spon-
taneous as his smile.
“You’ve been sitting too close over the
steering-wheel, old boy,” he said. “Not
giving your chest a chance. You used to
be able to give me a hard go for a hundred
yards over the turf or through the water,
but you couldn’t n0w.... How much does
mother know of this?”
“Nothing; if she had to depend on what
I’ve told her. But she could always see a
little further through a brick wall than most
people. Where the family was concerned,
anyway. And she thinks the destruction of
property a devil of a crime—just a little
short of murder. As if nearly everything
nowadays wasn’t made to be worn out as
quickly as possible and scrapped for some-
thing better!”
He was talking more quietly now, more
like his old self. Yet he had got away
from himself, and was giving his ideas an
impersonal twist, even an airy lightness.
What a joke their mother’s belief in the
sacredness of property really was! it came
from the days when men moulded and
shaped things painfully with their hands.
Now when huge machines were flooding
the world with more things than it could
consume, this year’s model always stood in
the way of next year’s till it was scrapped.
Progress lay in quick destruction. How
swiftly mechanical development had leapt
ahead during the war, when millions of
men were occupied with destroying things
by explosives or fire! A man who had any
respect for mere durability was a fool. The
more durable a machine was, the more it
choked the stream of progress. Look at
the inventions that were being held up, the
machines and men standing idle, because
the markets of the world were clogged with
productsl that couldn’t be used quickly
enough!
Lew listened only with half an ear. He
suspected that under Hughie’s talk lay an
old-fashioned sense of guilt, that he w’as
worried by what he had done and fearful
of the consequences. How nervy and
strained his face and whole body looked!
It seemed as if he had been drawing too
largely on his store of vitality; he needed
the life in him to be renewed at its very
source. A man could suck freshness into
him by contact with real things and with
people who weren’t flitting shadows! And
there was some sort of genius in Hughie
that would carry him a long way when he
pulled himself together and had taken
better stock of his powers and limitations.
He said suddenly:
“Look here, old boy, why not come back
to the Passage for a while? I’d buy out
Martin Wiegert’s car service for you, _or
there’s Kunkel’s store —he’s been talking
of selling out for the last couple of years.
It would only mean waiting a while for a
new jump off. I don’t suppose you’ve any
debts I couldn’t settle if they gave me a
little time.”
Hughie switched round as it he had re-
ceived a shock. Surprise, irony, gratitude
were mingled on his face, but he only said
ruefully:
(Continued on page 45.)


all gonei
(Zi
its
''35T
Him/
NURSERY WARE
Childhood fancies
(qfMKY cups and saucers,
plates and mugs,designed for
the House of Shelley by Mabel
Lucie Attwcll, appeal to the
quaint fancies of childhood, and
later become a pleasant memory.
The lively imagination of Miss
Attwell delights the little people,
and the mark of Shelley, syn-
onymous with careful, old-time
craftsmanship, promises the
toughness requisite to survive
reasonable outbursts of nursery
high spirits.
Ask to see the latest
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
• China
Nursery Ware
i>u Lucie Attweu
& HILDA COWHAM
Dome stic Ware
Jelly Moulds
aaa.CLAR.EMCE *T.
DFGFGHGJHGJH
Amusements,
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors : Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait,
HER MAJESTYS: MR. CINDERS.
CRITERION: LITTLE ACCIDENT.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE NEW MOON.
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LEON GORDON in
SCANDAL.
IJOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
14 MELBOURNE.
ALL TALKIE PROGRAMME.
ANN HARDING in
HER PRIVATE AFFAIR.
(Children under 16 Not Admitted.)
ALSO
THE BIG PARTY.
With SUE CAROL.
(Passed for General Exhibition.)
TH£
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN**
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
“Out of the Jsox ”
Yes, in every sense of the word! It’s a
pound to a peanut that you won’t see a
Hat Bargain like this between now and
next Christmas —if then. It all happened
through a good offer from a leading Australian Hat
Factory. 300 Hats awaiting a cash bidder; of course
we got them —and at our own price. That is
js**sr
'OSTAGE
PAID TO
VO UK
.(OR.
df^h-
-22'6 HATS
DFGFGHGJHGJH
Almost Half Price!
Everyone a new sea-
son’s Model in the
ever popular “Snap
Brim” style. Perfect
in every way, choice
Slate and Steel shades.
Pure Fur Felt, too,
and neatly finished.
Kindly address all letters to Desk “R,” Box 3875TT, G.P.0.. Sydney.
¥
s sydne:
The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys' Wear Store
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The usual ceremony marked the opening
of the Parliamentary session by the Gov-
ernor. Lady Goodwin was in saxe-blue crepe
dc- Chine, with a vest of Paris lace and
saxe-blue repp coat; the Chief Justices lady
wore black crepe with white satin blouse and
jade cloche ; Mrs. A. E. Moore chose mush-
room crepe de Chine and black; and Mrs.
W. H. Barnes, henna satin beaute. Ttie
scarlet robes of the Judges and the uniforms
gave a touch of much needed brightness to
the scene. Mr. and Mrs. Moore entertained
a party in the Premier’s private room.
, The Alliance Frangaise kept “France’s
Day” by a shivoo in Rowe’s banqueting hall,
where the tricolor was draped with the flags
of Britain and Australia. Dr. Keith McKen-
zie gave an address. Their Exes, were there,
Lady Goodwin in powder-blue. Two debs,
were presented, Yvonne Rochat, in a family
heirloom frock of ivory muslin over pale
pink silk; and Helen Wedd, in white taffetas
with a posy of white roses.
Andrew lan Hunter took to _ wife in St.
Andrew’s, South Brisbane, \ ivian Zanetta,
only daughter of Captain and Mrs. P. H.
Day. The bride was in pale pink moire
with a pale pink tulle veil, caught with
orange blooms and forget-me-nots. Moira
Hunter, the ’groom’s sister, ’maided in green
taffetas with green straw hat.
The wedding of Jeanetta Collins to Dudley
de Burgh Persse, in the little country church
at Beaudesert, united two w r ell-known
Queensland families. The bridegroom is the
eldest son of the Charles de Burgh Persses,
of Tabragalba and Ilawkwood, and grandson
of the late W. E. Parry Okeden, pioneer
pastoralist and Police Commissioner. The
bride, who is the youngest daughter of Mrs.
William Collins, Nindooimbah, was given
away by her brother John. She wore ivory
bridal satin and Chantilly and a veil ot
rose point that had decked her great-great-
grandmother. Cloth of gold shower roses
and jonquils were carried. Dorothea Collins,
Pamela and Nancy Persse and Dorothea
Anne Fraser ’maided in wattle-gold silk
muslin with gold felt hats. The bride’s trav-
elling frock was of Cheviot tweed, worn with
a brown fur coat and hat. Hawkwood saw
the beginning of the ’moon, before departure
for England by the Euripides.
Sally Thomason was married to Charley
Bowly in St. Thomas’s, Toowong. The
bride was in white satin beaute and lace
and a hand-made Venetian lace veil. Dorothy
Sloan and Nell McCullogh ’maided in shell-
pink moire satin. The feasting was at
Rathdonnell, Auchenflower.
Died last week, the relict of the Hon.
John Murtagh Macrossan and mother of
Justice Macrossan. She was born in County
Clare 79 years ago, and coming to Queens-
land as a girl married John Macrossan in
Townsville. Her husband was a great figure
in Queensland politics in his day.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The Bankers gave a most successful ball —
their fifth—at the Palais Royal, when 800
were present. Various novelties were
featured. A case of wine, with a miniature
pig on the lid, was wheeled around for the
dancers to guess the weight, the wine for
the winner. The ladies had to try their
luck over an enormous box of chocolates.
The organisers of the Movie Ball, which
will be held at the Maison de Danse, Glenelg,
on Friday next, have obtained permission
to hold a street procession, when over 4000
balloons will be released, some of them
with picture-theatre tickets attached. The
proceeds will be divided between the School
for Mothers, Minda Home, and the City and
Suburban Unemployment Fund. There will
be money prizes for the impersonation of
talkie stars.
The director of the Elder Conservatorium,
Professor Harold Davies, has sent out invi-
tations for two performances of “TTr> Mar-
riage of Figaro,” Act 11, and “Dido and
Aeneas,” by the Conservatorium Opera Cla s,
Harold Denton producer, and H. Winsloe
Hall director. Later on the class will pro-
duce “Maritana.”
On Friday night at the Tow*n Hall the
Free Kindergartens celebrated their 25tli
anniversary. The Mayoress, always an
enthusiastic supporter of the movement, in-
troduced some attractive novelties. There
■was an immense sugar cake lighted with 25
giant candles on a wheeled stand drawn
round the ballroom by 25 pretty girls, Mrs.
Iv. C. Wilson walking in front carrying an
enormous knife on a cushion. The cak' was
cut by Mrs. J. P. Moi*ice, the oldest member
of the Kindergarten committees. Dancing
was in the main hall, supper in the banquot-
ing-room, and bridge was played downstairs.
At one of the dances the participants repre-
sented cards and the M.C. dealt them out.
The Mayoress looked smart in black and
white net, and there were several recent
brides and debutantes in the white-garbed
cluster around the cake.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Loretto past pupils twinkled their toes
this week in the Y.A.L. at their Alma Mater’s
annual ball. Mrs. Rogers, in petunia and
gold lace; Mrs. Riding, in black; and Nell
Connaughton, in chilli-red, headed the com-
mittee. Marion Freedman wore flared draper-
ies of shell pink; Doreen O’Hara had a
glint of silver on her corsage, from which
powdery-blue frills descended to her ankles;
Ethel Treadgold’s blue taffetas were orna-
mented with flower broideries; sister Freda
chose geranium reds; buttercup laces foamed
about Jo Davies; Ockie Grave wore pearl-
pink worked with silver thread; gold lace
and metal net fashioned Ellen Mulcahy’s
garment, and sister Margaret’s black geor-
gettes were attached to a flowered bodice:
the delphinium chiffons of Mary Gibbous
descended in flared tiers; Noreen Riley’s
black tulle was adorned with wee rosebuds.
No great inventiveness was displayed at
this year’s Animal Ball. Government House
ballroom was beautifully decorated, but there
were only four fancy sets and a handful
of fancy and old-world costumes. The Rajah
of Bong, a lady’s morning eostume of 1870,
a Dutch couple and the “Splinters” set got
prizes. Her Ex., in sky blue, chaperoned
Dick Forster, in parchment moire, and
Janie Bunning, in sea-blue laces; Mrs.
Hurtle Fisher’s black taffetas were sewn to
a yoke of net; Gretclien Hardie’s handsome
black garment sported a sequined hem and
a patterning of flowers; Mrs. Ernest Lee
Steere wore a lame bridge coat over her gold
lace gown; Elizabeth Kerr-Pearse’s eau-de-
nil raiment touched her ankles; Mrs. Carcary
had silver embossing upon her blacky gown.
Among the most attractive old-world cos-
tumes was Marjorie Dempster’s crinoline,
covered with wee frills and worn with a
demure bonnet.
Their Exes, farewelled son Wilfrid and his
wife, who boarded the Moreton Bay for
several months’ holiday in the Cold Coun-
try. Sir William’s term of office has been
extended till the middle of next year.
The engagement is announced of Jack,
eldest son of Colonel and Mrs. Heath, of
Fairbr'dge Farm School, and Betty Ken-
wick, of Bondi, N.S.W.
Four one-actors filled the Assembly Hall
for the Repertory Club’s last effort. Clear-
voiced Dorothy Mark played the name-part
in "Becky Sharp”; a pretty lass, Miss J.
Burridge, was. Amelia. Tom Tracey and T.
Richards picked the lock of the gate of
Heaven in Lord Dunsany’s fragment, “The
Glittering Gate.” Jean Good, in a gold n
wig and the make-up of well-pres rved
middle-age, won great applause as Lady
Adela, the “me” of “Me and My Diary.”
Pictured alongside is Uncle Bas, who, with
the assistance of Auntie Maxine, entertains
the young ones for an hour every evening.
Except during the time of his transformation
the jolly uncle
is Mr. Basil
Kirke, man-
ager of 6WF.
He knows a
great deal
about the mar-
vels of science,
and finds the
credul it y of j
some p?ople |
almost as mar-
vellous. One
day a large
and furious
woman was
shown into his
sanctum a t
2 B L. She
merely wanted
to smash the
m a c h i n e—
what ever it
was—that en-
able d any
scoundrel to “even seJe into our bathrooms.”
TASMANIA.
. Hobart.
His Ex. and Margaret O’Grady, with
Mrs. Stoyles and Miss Anne Clemons (Laun-
ceston), were at the Itoyal Yacht Club’s at-
home at the Continental, where pretty
daughter Jean helped Commodore O. Tinning
to do the honors. Margaret’s frock was of
almond-green crepe romaine, with the usual
little cape on the shoulders at the back. The
Gont'nental orchestra played dance music,
and the younger folk footed it till a late hour.
The Hobart Turf Club’s last meeting of
the season was held in ideal weather; any
visitor to the Speck during the last few weeks
might take away the impression that our
skies are cloudless. The vice-r : gal party was
there with Capt. Stoyles ar.d N. E. Somers
in attendance. Margaret wore a slim up-
and-down black face-cloth ensemble. Mrs.
Stoyles also sported black face-cloth, with
small black felt hat. Miss Clemons was in
navy-blue charmalaine.
During the afterhoon his Ex. presented
the King’s Medal to S recant W. R. Taylor
for heroism during the Brisds flood disaster
last year. The proceeds of the meeting were
divided b'dnv'en the Salvation Army, the St.
Vincent de Paul Society and the CPy Mis-
sion. Among the throng were the T. W. 11.
Lyonses, the J. A. Millers, Mrs. S. R
Symonds, the Geo. Can ns, Mrs. Douglas
McLaren,- Mrs. Eric Brock, the Lindsay
Mill''ns. Mrs. Claud"' Buis, I)r. and Mr?.
"Hodgkinson...the V. R. Rattens, Mrs. Flex-
more, Miss Gertie Atkins, Mrs. C, E. Ches-
terrnan and the 11. W. Strutts.
The Hobart Repertory Society gave its
first play reading Milne's “Tli' Ivory Door,”
to a peeked audience. Marjorie Lyne was
responsible for an excellent production.
Hobart has been welcoming home, whither
he has come for a brief visT. Dr. Phil
Bowden, Fellow of Caius College, Cam-
bridge. Mayor Soundy and the Uni. heads
gave him a reception at the Town Hall.
Two women nndlcoes, Ethel M. Davies and
Jean W. Clemons, have been appointed
junior resident medical officers to the Hobart
General Hospital. The former is a native of
lUobrrt: the latter comes from Launceston,
and is the daughter of Dr, Geo. Cl mons,
well known in the Speck both professionally
and as a keen sportsman.
Matron J. H. M'lne, who has just r< tired
after being in charge of St. Margaret’s
Private Hospital. Launceston, for IT years,
was Edinburgh-trained. She came to Aus-
tralia in ISFS; was appointed Lady Superin-
tendent of the Launceston General Hospital
a year later and remained there for 26 years.
Under her control the hosp’tal acquired a
high reputation, and nurses came from every
State to be trfrned there. Stic took charge
of the newly-built St. Margaret’s Hospital
in 1912 Matron Oakes, who succeeded
Matron Milne at the Launceston hospital, is
now succeeding her at St. Margaret’s.


Legal Notice.
yO JOHN JAMIESON YVEDDERSPOON formerly
of Christchurch Masterton and Arthur’s Pass
Chauffeur but now of parts unknown. .
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of New Zealand at New
Plymouth citing you to appear and answer the
petition of Isabella Maisie Wedderspoon of Urenui
Married Woman wherein she prays for a dissolution
of her marriage with you on the grounds of deser-
tion and such citation intimates that in default
of your so doing the Court will proceed to hear
the said petition and to pronounce therein not-
withstanding your absence. „„„„„„ , ~
NOW THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that for the
purpose aforesaid you are within forty (40) days
after the date of this publication to attend in person
or by your Solicitor at the Supreme Court office at
New Plymouth and there to enter an appearance
without which you will not be allowed to address
the Court at any stage of the proceedings.
A copy of the said citation and petition will be
supplied to you on your applying for the same
at the Supreme Court office at New Plymouth
Dated at New PlymouthrtimSth day oi^O.
Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly re-
quested to forward to him the foregoing adver-
tisement. . ~ „ ~ „
lAN WILLIAM BARTON ROY is the_ Solicitor
for the Petitioner, whose address for service is at
the offices of Messieurs Roy and White, Solicitors,
93 Brougham Street, New Plymouth, New Zealand.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
GENTLEMEN! I ask you
to join .me in a “ spot ”
of McCallum’s Perfection*
Distributors for the Bouse
McCollum
Sole Agents for N.S.W.:
Goldsbroiigh. Mort & Go.
SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for Queensland:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Go.
Wool Exchange, Eagle St.,
DIiISBANE.
Sole Agents for Victoria:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co.
Cnr. Bourke & William Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Agents for IV.A.:
Lionel Samson & Son,
FREMANTLE.
Sole Agents for S.A.:
Gibbs, Bright & Co.,
Grenfell Street,
ADELAIDE.
Sole Agents for Tasmania:
MacFarlanc Bros.,
117 Macquarie St.,
HOBART.
tm.
m
: : }
m
D
MAi^K
PM
* FITTED WITH
STRONGLAS LIN
MADE in englani
*
sxmmrnm
y s<ms&®Bm
% the
W\ ONLY
FLASK
DFGFGHGJHGJH
FOR ALL
OCCASIONS
Every day, in every home the need
arises for one or another of the
THERMOS products-a THERMOS
flask, a THERMOS jug or a
THERMOS food jar. Early risers
need hot drinks; picnic parties
want iced drinks; milk, cream,
butter have to be kept cool in
broiling weather. In each instance
and in a hundred more THERMOS
is invaluable. Look for the name
THERMOS on every article. It is
your guarantee of quality.
“Begin again where I left off ye:arsi ago ?
“Not exactly; you couldn t do that li
jrou tried. Life isn’t a footrace over the
same marked ground.... But youine n .
thirty yet. Plenty of time t oj come again
when you’ve got your second wind, in
the end you’ll get wherever you wanted to
go. I’m ready to take my solemn davy
on that.” ... ,
He was thinking that he would have to
carry the family now— perhaps carry
Hughie as well—but what did that mattei.
He had powerful shoulders, and no weigh
had ever proved too much for them ye
There was even a strong desire in him lor
a struggle that would engross the whole
powers of his mind and body. A beating
home in the teeth of the wind, a pull
against the tide
CHAPTER XXXV.
Renascence.
“We did our best for you. Lew,” old
McEvoy was saying. “But things haven t
been going too well. A little less caigo
every trip! These cockie fruitgrowers aie
damned hard to satisfy; you have to keep
their noses in the bucket as if they were
poddy calves. A few cases of fruit went
bad on the wharves once when old lorn
was running late, and to hear the song
they made about it you’d have thought
they’d been cleaned out of everything they
owned. Passed the word around to one
another that it wasn’t safe to send stuff by
water any more! Fact is, they thought
you’d chucked the game and wasn’t coming
back. Wonderful how quick rats are to
leave a sinking ship!”
He was padding about among the cases
on the jetty, fingering his tuft of grizzled
beard and casting his red-veined eyes
around pessimistically as he made a tally
of the scanty loading. He couldn’t tell the
full truth to Lew about the hopeless
muddle in which they had become involved
Boats running late and cargo going astray !
It was old Tom’s fault more than lus
own; that is, if it was the fault of either
of them. Men couldn’t be expected to
look after their boats and keep a check
on the shore-end of the business, too!
Lew, who had summed the position up
well enough in the little time he had been
home, had a good-humored twinkle in his
eye!
“You wouldn’t blame the rats, Mac? It
only shows their good sense; no bunkum
about going down with the ship about
them! We’re not going to sink, though.
No, you can make your mind easy about
that. I’ll take a trip up to the range as
soon as I’ve time, and see some of the
fruitgrowers and managers of butter-
factories, who’ve veered round to the rail-
way. If I don’t get them all back and
some fresh custom besides, I’ll crawl home
on my hands and knees. There: that’s a
bet.”
McEvoy moodily cut up some plug
tobacco and rolled it in his palm.
“You knew Lavinia was going down,
didn’t you? No one ever at the hotel now 7
—the place like a blasted graveyard if you
go up at night. And weeds and lantana
growing up waist-high over the golf
course.” .
“That was how I thought it would be
when Osborne left,” said Lew. “These
places go up and down like a cow’s belly.”
He wasn’t troubled by the decay of
Lavinia. It had been an artificial growth,
a place that depended on a flow of life
from outside. The Passage was different.
There would always be the shoals of
mullet coming in from the sea and an in-
creasing flood of butter and fruit from the
country around; it would develop naturally
like a plant with its roots in good soil.
Then there were stores of timber at the
head of the salt-water creek. Years before
the bullockies had snaked out the best of
the pine and cedar, but it had been a long
journey to the mills. No one had thought
of building a mill on the shores of the
Passage and rafting the logs down to
it, yet now that timber was going up
in price that ought to be a profitable
business. It was a scheme that might-
interest Hughie. They could build another
flat-bottomed boat to take the sawn timber
down the Passage, and so extend their
control over that narrow stretch of water
that had been the source of their family
life.
The sense of power and freshness that
had poured into him that first morning as
he lay awake looking at the sun on the
sandbanks and the big she-oaks by the
water remained with him all day. He
plunged with gusto into his work, sorting
out the old bills of lading in his office,
making a tally of the stores, mending some
of the planking in the jetty. Once the
thought of Peter had lain like a stone in
the centre of his being; he couldn’t bear
to let his mind rest on it; but now images
of the boy were continually before his eyes.
A great youngster, Peter! It would have
been like living two lives in one just to
stand by and watch his mind and body
grow; but it didn’t kill a man to be struck
down by a thunderbolt. Something flowed
into him again from the earth on which he
fell.
He was leaning over Dora Wiegert’s fence,
talking to her in the afternoon sunshine,
when he saw a figure crawling about the
roof of the McNair bungalow that was
faintly visible through the surrounding trees.
In the middle of a sentence he broke off,
a sudden concentration in his eyes.
“Hullo! What’s going on over there?
Renovations?”
Dora looked across lazily.
“Yes, there’s been a couple of men work-
ing there for three weeks or more. Painting
it and putting in new flooring where the
white ants had eaten it away. She’s coming
back here to live, she says.”
“Who is?”
“Why, old McNair’s daughter. She was
up here a month ago and stayed a few
days. I saw a light there one night and
next morning I went over: there she was,
hardly changed from when she went away
God knows how long ago. Only a bit more
set-like and sure of herself. She came
down the same morning and helped me give
your place a once-over, and she i airly
mopped up anything I could tell her about
you and the family What’s this about
Hughie buying out old Kunkel, Lew? Only
talk, isn’t it?” T
“No; it may come to something. i
made the old chap an offer on behalf of
Hughie. He’s rather at a loose end just
now.”
Dora had heard about Hughie s fire.
“Well, if you Callaways don’t have all
the bad luck,” she said.
From the sudden intake of her breath and
the concentration in her dark, animal eyes
Lew could see that she was on the point
of saying something about Lena, but her
lips, having opened slightly, closed again
with the gradualness of two sides of a
shell. There were limits to her easy famili-
arity with him. He divined then that she
and the other women knew everything, and
wouldn’t trouble him with their questions
or gossip. Lena had passed out of then
lives as she had passed from his own.
But he could hardly tell what made his
feet light and put a spring into the
turf as he walked back to help McEvoy
sling the last of the loading aboard the
boat. Scents he had known all his life
pricked his senses in a new way, the musty
tang of the mullet-weed, the tarry smell of
the old punts drawn up by the jetty, the
heavy fragrance of the flowering tea-tree.
They made him feel a boy again*, so that he
tossed the heavy cases about as if they
were empty and joked with old McEvoy
without knowing what he was saying. It
must be Clem’s coming back to live there
that made him lightheaded like this! The
news had soaked into his body rather th<rn
his mind. He didn’t think very much about
what it would mean, but he was aware of
an expectation spreading through him, pene-
trating the furthest corners of his being.
She was coming back because she couldn’t
help it: that was the clearest notion that
came into his head. And they both had
years of life ahead of them yet!
Swans flying up the Passage at night
with their strange, familiar cry; the boat
dwindling to a speck before it turned the
long arm of Rathbone Island; a dull glow of
light from the window as Dora Wiegert lit
the lamp in the empty house.
“No, I don’t want any help, Dora,’ he
told her. “Going to cook my own meals
and look after myself for the present.
There’s a bit of the hatter about me; I
like poking along on my own.”
What he wanted was to be able to shut
himself up with this dream of coming fulfil-
ment. All evening he sat smoking on the
verandah, his mind trying to create definite
images of the future but losing itself m
the maze of stars above Rathbone Island.
He found himself shaping words and sen-
tences, not aloud but coherently, continu-
ing a conversation with Clem that had
been broken off by the bridge over the
saltwater creek—how many years ago? It
came to him that almost since liis boyhood
there had been an inner life going on in
him like the movement among the swaying
grasses of the sea-floor. He had been silent,
driven in upon himself, only opening his
mouth to say the mechanical words formed
by one part of his brain. True he had
talked to old Tom, but there were things
you couldn’t say to a man. Nor to all
kinds of women! He had never been able
to unlock his heart to Lena, even at their
moments of closest contact. He wanted a
contact closer than that of the body. Some-
thing he could only find with one woman.
And yet there was this sense of
expectancy in his body, too.
Before the mists had risen from the
Passage he caught the mare Lena used
to ride and set off for the range, covering
the sandy plain at a canter, and drinking
in the scent of the flowering shrubs and
coarse, dew-steeped grasses. On the other
side of the railway the range rose like a
wall, its deep ravines filled with rich,
tangled scrub, and its volcanic earth
showing salmon-red where some landslides
fell away. Above was the plateau, with its
neat dairy paddocks of paspalum and its
thousand orange orchards, on which the wel-
fare of his boats depended. He was filled
with a sense of being part of this country
as he rode from one butter factory to
another, interviewing managers, watching
the tins of cream being unloaded from the
cars,- drinking tea in rickety sheds with
men who knew his name but had never seen
his face before. It was a small district,
and though he had moved through it very
little he had left his mark on it. They
talked to him as if they had been familiar
with him all their lives.
“Why, Lew, we thought you’d gone away
up north somewhere. Slung your hook for
good! That’s why we left off sending stuff
by boat and went back to the train. Once
the boats used to run so you could set your
clock by them, but there’s been a hell of a
muddle lately. No one in charge down there
(Continued on page 50.)


S 3
%
The Australian Provincial Assurance
Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912 .
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING,
Dr. C, A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD, J. R. KIRK. Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand).
Total Assets exceed £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.
(1 ) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by the Association and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and private hospitals, varying
in amount according to the sum assured and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forth-
with and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES.
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES
SPECIALISED.
APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCIES INVITED FROM MEN OF INTEGRITY.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
Australian Machines Save the Rice in Boggy Paddocks.
1
■
m
mm
■
nn
Tractors bogged! Ground a quagmire! But a slow-moving team of bullocks, and a Sunshine
Engine Functioned Header-Harvester mounted on skids, rescued the grain from this rain-sodden
Murrumbidgee ricefield.
No matter how slow the pace, the mechanism of the Sunshine Engine Functioned Header-Harvester runs at normal speed, and the maximum
yield of grain is secured from the crop.
DFGFGHGJHGJH
THE SUNSHINE ENGINE FUNCTIONED
HEADER-HARVESTER.
SUNSHINE HEADER-HARVESTERS
PRE-EMINENT IN WHEAT, OATS, BARLEY, PEAS, RICE.
Successfully harvest crops in any condition, heavy or light, storm-tangled or thistle-infested, on hillside
or level ground.
SIZES MANUFACTURED
Sunshine Auto Header, 12ft. cut, self propelled. Will harvest over 40 acres in a day. Sunshine Header-Harvester (Standard type), 6ft., Bft. and 10ft. cut.
The machine that harvests the bulk of Australia’s golden grain. Sunshine Engine Functioned Header-Harvester, 6ft., Bft. and 1 Oft. cut. A 4-cylinder petrol-engine
functions the mechanism. Four horses draw it. Sunshine Pea Harvesting Front, attachable to 6ft. and Bft. machines. Enables peas to be harvested as efficiently
as wheat.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS i
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE, AUSTRALIA
BRANCHES:
664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne. 27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide. Cr. Murray and King Streets, Perth.
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
H. V. McKAY (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
Ask for General Illustrated Catalogue of all Sunshine manufactures.


ADELAIDES Best-Value Hotel
In the Centre of things!
DFGFGHGJHGJH
Located on Adelaide’s
finest boulevard, the
Grosvenor is handy
to theatres, shopping
centres, and public
buildings. 300 rooms,
100 bathrooms. Hot
and cold water in all
rooms. Yale locks on
all doors. Fire-proof
throughout. Courteous
service. Meals a la
carte from 1/6. £3/10/-
weekly. Bed and
Breakfast from 6/6.
Grosvenor
NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION
IN RETROSPECT.
The aged delight to contemplate the past, and it is natural that
they should.
With the inactivity of declining years it is a genuine pleasure
to dwell upon the activities of the past, but thriftlessness in early years
makes poor retrospect, and contemplation of the pleasures of youth
will be poor recompense for discomfort in age. Better to do without
some things you can afford now than later to be obliged to forego
actual necessities you cannot afford.
Open a Savings Bank Account and make it ensure your future.
Every Post Office is an agency of the
Cbmmonwcaltl) Savings JBankof Hustralia
( Guaranteed, by the Commonwealth Government ).
Monday to Friday,
A la Carte Dining and Supper
Service.
Minimum charge 7/6. Dancing till
1 a.m. Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY LATE GALA NIGHT.
Special Table d hote Dinner, 217-
Special Supper from 10 o’clock,
12/6; or a la Carte, minimum, 12/6
Afternoon Tea Dansant—
Monday to Friday, 3.30 to 5.30, 2/6
Saturday, 4/-
. •
’Phone M 4 131 for your reservation.
AS WE SAID BEFORE
This Page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in The Bulletin of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
The mining boom which has kept things
so lively for the last 12 months has sat
down [lBB7] to blow its nose and take a
rest. Kimberley is now only useful as a
peg to hang stacks of curses on to, and the
veteran Kimberley miuer is reduced to a
homeless condition and loafs hungrily round
on doorsteps swearing at every man, woman,
child and dog that passes. Teetulpa proves
to be about the usual thing—a dusty fever-
den, where a man gets a 10-pennyweight
nugget one day and then is doubled up
screaming with the colic for the rest of the
month; there are 16 whirlwinds to the
square mile, and a cup of clean water is as
hard to find as a crowned gorilla. The Big
[The subject was Signor Zelman,
Melbourne’s best-known musician —
Oct., 1888.]
Bay (N.Z.) goldfield has been abandoned,
and the whole takings of the deluded gang
of prospectors hardly paid hospital expenses
for a companion who had stood too near the
edge of a precipice and then stepped on
nothing in particular and flopped to the
bottom. Another little boom was started in
the same colony—an old, hard-headed genius
with a pimpled nose and a wooden leg having
discovered that the vast Pacific was aurifer-
ous, and was perpetually throwing up slabs
and chunks of gold on the beach, and a
dozen parties went out to lay up treasure
where moth and rust do corrupt. The
sand, however, only went two stove-in hats
and an oyster to the ton, except at one place,
where promising indications were struck.
These, however, proved to be based entirely
on a set of false teeth with gold fixings,
which had been washed out of the jaw of a
man who was drowned years ago in the
Tararua, and the claim was therefore voted
to be patchy and was abandoned in disgust.
Further south the assay showed a steady
average of one jam-tin and two degraded
fools to the square mile, and the expedition
in despair passed two cheques on a publican
and got home by bullock-dray upon the pro-
ceeds.
“For Sale —cows and customers,” is an
advertisement that appeared last week in one
of the Sydney dailies. We don’t know about
the cows, but we feel certain that the cus-
tomers will be sold.
An eccentric character named Larry
Bourke put up for Kilmore (Vic.). One
night, after Larry had delivered an ener-
getic address to a roomful! of the free and
enlightened constituents, the chairman, as
usual, asked “if ar’ a gintleman had a
quishtion to ax Misther Bourke?” The
great majority of the congregation were
Misther Bourke’s strong supporters—
brawny, clump-footed toilers and moilers
from the fastnesses of Tipperary, and when
a bald-headed oppositionist upended himself
and put a query which cast reflections upon
the cause, the independent electors arose
with a wild howl, and, taking him bodily,
spun him out into the mud, where he lay
a bedraggled wreck. When the audience
had composed itself the chairman reared
once more, and, with an expression of baby-
ish innocence, asked: “Would any other
gintleman like to put a quishtion to Misther
Bourke?” No one liked.
One of the earliest settlers in New
Zealand was a Dr. Knox, who lived near
Wellington and died in the hospital there
about 20 years ago. Dr. Knox was a
younger brother of that other Dr. Knox who
acquired great notoriety in connection with
the Burke and Hare murders. At the time
of these events he was a student in the
medical school where his brother was prin-
cipal. In New Zealand he lived a very
quiet and lonely life, practising his profes-
sion in a small way. It was known that
he was fond of dissecting any human re-
mains he could get hold of, and on that
account and the associations connected with
his name he was not at all a popular man
among the early settlers. One day he was
accosted by two young men who told him
their aged father had just died and they
wished to sell his body. A bargain, was
immediately struck, and the doctor paid £4
for the remains, the young men agreeing to
allow him to dissect the body in the hut
where it lay. They then gave him the key
of their door, and departed with the money
in their pockets. When night came the
doctor visited the hut and saw the body, but
he didn’t dissect it. He was so shocked
with the conduct of the twb young men that
he sat down on the corpse and cursed them
for three-quarters of an hour for their awful
depravity. They had, in fact, sold the
deceased and the doctor at the same time.
The remains were not of the genus homo,
but of the porker variety. They had passed
on to him for his four notes the corpse of an
ancient wild boar, probably one of the iden-
tical pigs landed in New Zealand by Captain
Cook. It was a bitter pill, but he swal-
lowed it.
A frightful calamity has overtaken Mary-
borough (Q.). The rum-retailers have raised
the price of brandy-and-soda to ninepence.
[June, 1887.]
There is a milkman in South Melbourne
who has a ready wit that a lawyer might
envy. One of his customers caught him
watering the milk at a horse-trough, the other
day. “What!” said the customer in a rage,
“isn’t it enough that your milk is. full, of
tvphoid without going and watering it!”
The milkman turned round, and, smiling com-
passionately, said to two or three bystanders:
“What can you do with a man like this?
I-Ie actually wants his typhoid straight. 1 ’
Now that the mosquito season has fairly
set in, the lineal descendants of the late Mr.
Ananias are trotting out tiheir summer stock of
yarns. A few of our most esteemed and reli-
able liars chancing to meet a few nights ago,
the bald-headed man of the party observed:
“Talkin’ o’ merskeeturs, I remember I was
once breamin’ in stock for ole Macpherson on
the Paroo, an’ one night we hears th’ devil’s
own bellerin’ down in one o’ the swamps,
an’ off we goes with our guns, but we were
jist in time to be too late. One o’ tli’ mer-
skeeturs hed stuck in his beak clean through
a cow, and pinned her to a tree, as slick as
a blackfeller could spear her. Lucky for us
th’ tree was split in two by the blow or
we’d never ha’ got th’ carcase.” There was
a solemn pause after this, and then a man
with a swivel eye and a remarkable aggres-
sive front tooth asked the first man if he
ever had heard of Swinger and Clouttit’s
boiler factory up near Rockhampton. The
first man said he hadn’t, and the other trutli-
upender continued: “I thought not, or you
wouldn’t think so much of the Bourke insects.
Why, they hev one ole-man muskeeto up
there —Gen’r’l Richardson they call ’im—an'
they keep him for business purposes. Fact,
I assure yer. He
sticks his beak
through the copper-
plates, and then
they rivet ’em —
leastways they
useter do it when
I was there, but
they’ve lost ’im
now. Seems that
he got huffed at
s o m e t h i n’ or
’nuther, an’ one
day he driv his
beak inter a big
biler, an’ when
they riveted it in,
bust me if he didn’t
fly away with tli’
biler and th’ two
men inside.” This
time the silence
was sepulchral, and
one or two of the
gentler sort of liars
were beginning to
slink off, when a
venerable looking
old file remarked
in a soliloquising
sort of way: “I re-
member once when
I were travelling
roun’ tli’ Hunger-
ford country a-
seein a muskeeter
that were ov con-
siderable size too.
Some surveyors an’
Guvming coves hed
him stuck on a
platform 325 feet
high, an’ hed train-
ed him t’ use his
beak a-borin’ these
yere h artesian
wells, as they calls
’em. Scotty Joimsin
were mate with me ' . , ,
then, an’ he measured the platform s height,
an’ it were 365 feet ez I’m a livin’ man.
“But wliat' on earth did thev want t’ perch
him up there fur?” asked tne man with the
swivel eye. “Coz his beak were too long t
be used on th’ ground,” replied the truthful
traveller: “thet’s why they lied to build th
platform 475 feet high, an’ d’ye know what,
shouted the old reprobate, suddenly starting
up excitedly; “one day he. got vicious, an’ y
can call me a goat ef he didn’t put on steam,
an’ drive his bill ’way through the earth till
it came stickin’ out in frunt of a Town Hall
in China.” “Oh! look here, old un,
chorused th’ rest, “that’s a-comin’ ov it
jest a trifle too strong.” “Too strong.’
yelled the insulted but veracious chronicler,
“why, it’s nothin’ to wliat he did arter that,
fur it seems the Chineymen clinched his
beak at th’ other side, an’ then I wish. I may
never die if lie didn’t fly away with th
whole blessed world.”
It is sad enough to be kicked to . death by
a horse, but when' misprinted poetry is
thrown at the dead man, as the Queanbeyan
“Times” slings. it, we will choose a different
death. Tennyson is murdered to console the
parents in this style:—
Oh for the touch of, a varnished hand
And the sound of a voice that is still.
The “Town and Country Journal” lias at
last decided on a new name for Noose South
Wales. It offered a mode.st prize of 425.
sterling for the best advice on the subject,
and as a result it appears that the majority
of the people whose intellects have been
blasted by constant perusal of the “Jernil
prefer the term Cooksland. The rest. of
the names chosen appear in the following
order: East Australia, Kingsland, Cambria,
Warafah, .Cooksylvania, Britannia, Albertia,
Botania, Albertland, South Britain, Alex-
andra, Albion, Princeland, Carington (ye
gods !), Australia, Guelpliland and Saxonia.
The earmark of genius is not conspicuous
among this lot, except perhaps in “Cook-
sylvania”; if the author of this had taken
his idea from Newfoundland instead of from
Pennsylvania, and called this bleeding coun-
try Cookfoundland, he could hardly have
made things worse. Carington is wonder-
fully low down in the list, but, as everything
is a Carington now, from the last new baby
to the last big gallows, people may be get-
ting a little tired of the name. It did not
strike anyone, seemingly, to call the coun-
try after his Excellency’s plain ancestor —
the founder of the family—the common, ordi-
nary but energetic Bob Smith. Bobsland
would have had a cheerful sound, and Smitli-
sylvania would not have been bad.
A few short months ago a wealthy farmer
named Woodward owned some property at
Avondale (N.Z.). He was in the sere and
yellow leaf, and his teeth being all gone lie
could no longer crunch his victuals, while
the wind whistled shrilly through the empty
amphitheatre of his jaws. Under these cir-
cumstances he began to think of death and
MRS. YUNKUPPLE: “It’s too bad, John; you never tell me any oj
the strange or startling news that you read in the news-
papers now.”
MR. YUNKUPPLE : “Why, what have I omitted?”
MRS. Y.: “That coroner’s inquest at Botany. A woman is said
to have put poison in her husband’s food.”
MR. Y.: “Pooh! There’s nothing strange or startling about that.
Most wives poison their husband’s food every time they
attempt to cook it for them.” (And she packed up and
went home to her mother’s that very day.)
other cheerful subjects, and ultimately he
made over all his property to his wife, who
was young and enterprising and had all her
teeth still on hand. Very shortly after this
Woodward began to have an unholy glare in
his eye—at least, his wife brought two
doctors who saidssando —and he was shipped oft
to a madhouse, and when he was ejected from
this place as perfectly sane it was only to
be run into the hospital and have mustard
plasters put on him. Here again he was
turned out cured in a very short time, and
then, being destitute and hungry, he drifted
into the Old Men’s Refuge among other eden-
tated old vagrants, and his wife, being sued
for maintenance, allowed him 9s. per week.
He now hobbles aimlessly around with his
leg in a sling and liis shiny head bowed
down—a solemn warning to all old men with
young wives and real property.
The blushing clergy of the Finke River
Mission (South Australia) have resolved
to appeal to the Government to prohibit the
saved black females from wearing moleskin
trousers. They reckon that the bifurcated
male garment sets the lady converts back
a dozen years in their piety, and they want
policemen sent up to nip the trousers in the
bud. This is rather hard on the colored
Christians, especially when we read that
high-born dames in London and elsewhere
are now taking to the divided skirt. Only
a few weeks ago one of them delivered a
semi-public lecture on the subject of this
new departure in dress, and solemnly laid
her leg on the table in order to show how
much she gained in ease and comfort by
wearing the condemned and hated article;
but, aias, these old, blue-moulded . mission-
aries are a century behind the time, and
except in the direction of drinking a little
wine for their .stomach’s sake, they don t
seem to make any advance.
AT EYE.
In pomp of purple
The sun goes down,
He hangs red over
The tall-spired town,
Like a great ruby
On a king’s crown.
Bend down and kiss me,
Green boughs above!
I am riding sunward,
Onward and onward
To love ! To love!
Yet does it seem,
In some strange, sad wise,
That with open eyes—
Eyes open and wide—
I ride, and ride,
To the end of a dream.
V. J. D.


Gladstone received £250 for his Locksley
Hall article in the “Nineteenth Century.”
In a Gippsland police-court log-book where
the short and simple annals of the poor
drunks are recorded, a J.P. made this
entry: “Fined £l, costs one ginny. ,
J.P.”
A Thames (N.Z.) man overslept himself
on his wedding-morn, and when the bridal
party had been waiting for some time he
was roused up. That man was far-seeing.
He knew he’d have to get up early, light
the fire, and take in the milk when married,
and he thought he’d enjoy his last morning
of single blessedness.
There is a small boy, aged seven, who will
die rich and respected if we mistake not the
bent of his character. He has been in the
habit of roaming round the suburb in a
deplorable state of neglect, pitching to the
sympathetic public a woeful little yarn about
pa being down with the gout a*nd ma slav-
ing at the washtub to keep a family of 11,
tottering on the verge of starvation. The
sympathetic public looked into his big tear-
ful eyes and promptly subscribed to his relief
fund. But a sceptical peeler, who had had
an eye on the youthful mendicamt for some
time, took himi in tow the other day and
charged him with being a waif and stray.
When he was brought before the Court his
father was there to swear he never had the
gout, and his mother hadn’t to slave at the
wa*shtub, and, moreover, that the boy was
dressed up every morning a perfect dude and
sent to school, but he wagged it and made
up like a miserable pauper so that people
would sorrow at his hard lot and assist him
with cash which he and his pals squandered
on lollies, apples, shooting-gallerms and
luxuries. Whgt an acomsition to a
poor church the dear little fellow will be
in years to come!
They were dead broke, both of them. They
were so hungry that they would have passed
an india-rubber hen through a mangle in
the hope of .squeezing out an egg, and you
could have fried a chop on top of their
thirst. They had only one pipe between
them, and it was a short clay begrimed with
dirt that had accumulated on it since the
days of the prophet Samuel; they had no
clothes worth speaking of, no matches, no
tobacco, no hats, and they were shod with
the memory of four vanished boots. Their
thirst, however, was the most prominent
part of the diagnosis, and so, when a stranger
with a roll of paper in his hand commenced
by saying, “Will you two chaps” they
interrupted him right away, and rushing into
the bar exclaimed with one voice, “We will.
Mine’s a long, long beer.” But they didn't
get the beer, for the new arrival held up
his hand reproachfully and said in a mild,
woolly voice: “My friends, you have made
a mistake. I didn’t call you for a beer. 1
mfltely wished to ask you if you would mind
signing a requisition requesting Mr. Jones
to stand for this electorate in the Freetrade
interest.” And then the dead-broke pair
'SS&fiuS"* K
"idelj-popular journal,
ShWey’MvlldfmS’r”’^ake'Tha?'“got R7o'rcom-
livirtir "u„i
.’SIS «
H i
i&sra;
few - mis srssffi
*£> fig
two in front of him with drawn swords ’ and
firjpT\hO*
WIjERF. I '*\t
—■—”*
FDGFDG
v/vjy <ijE -
We.i.u ill RE
W&uw Im
Weu- lie CfO To ! r J
"M'-'
She Searched His Pockets—He Tried to Search Her’s.
two behind him with repeating carbines.
Baker is said to be about the largest share-
holder on the Auckland register of the Bank
of New Zealand.
An active Parramatta (N.S W.) police-
man ram in a man dressed in a deent suit
of clothes, and owning also a decent bank
account, on a charge of vagrancy because he
hadn’t worked for five weeks. Constable X
actually found two magistrates to remand the
the prisoner. And yet scores of politicians
who haven’t done any visible work for 25
years haven’t been run in once.
The best suicide on record was perpetrated
some time a:go in St. Louis, lI.S. The
individual who wanted to perish filled a hath
with wafer and attached to it a heating
apparatus. Then he fixed abovi the both
an amateur gallows with three ropes, from
one of which hung a pistol, and from an-
other a razor, and rigged up a candle in
such a position that after about 10 minutes
it would burn through the third rope, at the
end of which was a noose. Having got
everything right he stoked up the stove and
set the water in the bath boiling, lit the
candle, got on a little platform, and put
the noose round his neck, poured kerosene
over his clothes, and set himself on fire, cut
hia throat with the razor, and shot himself
with the pistol, and then hung blazing until
the rope was burned through, when his
overdone remains fell into the bath and were
boiled to rags. When found all that was left
of him had to be fished out with a fork
and put on a soup-plate, and when the crack
of doom arrives he’ll require to get some-
body to carry him up in a jug.
There is a man still living in Australia
[lSB7] who once supplied 61),000 gallons of
rum and water for 100 guests. J. S. Butters,
ex-Mayor of Melbourne, ex-King of Fiji, and.
in fact, ex-more things than the majority
of mankind have ever dreamt of, also bosom
fr end and host to Alf., Duke of Edinburgh,
once entertained 100 guests in his mansion in
the outskirts of Melbourne. It was long
before a c.ty water-supply existed, but Mr.
Butters had a 6J,0G0-gallon tank and was
seldom short of some fluid to wash with. His
party w r as a brilliant one, and as it was in
the roystering days of the gold-fever, even
the ladies did not look shocked when they
were invited to have some rum and water—
indeed, they all assented without being asked
twice. Then J.SB. hollered to his gilded
menial to fetch a bucket, and the liquor was
pumped out of the tank while the party
looked on awe stricken. It was the genuine
poison, beyond a doubt, but they could not
believe that the happy man existed anywhere
who owned a tank of rum, and after they
hr.<] drunk up the bucketful they made a
simultaneous rush for the pump-handle,
Five, ten. fifteen gallons were brought up,
and still there was no s'gn of dryness;
twenty, forty, fiftv, lat a hundred gallons of
the snake and blue-dog-producing beverage
had been poured out into a lesion of pails,
but the most vigorous and vociferous
tasting showed that the due proportion of
rum was still thu-e. Then the top
of the tank was taken off a«-"d the guests,
who were now nearly nos' blind through
much sampling, gazed lovingly at the whole
60.000 gal’ons and pronounc'd it genuine.
As it hapnened. however, Butters had merely
mmk a 200-gallon ca-k of rum and water
at the bottom of the tank. a*nd attached it to
the pump pipe, but the few of his guests
who survive look tip to him sti 11 as a man
who once owned enough rum to float a ship.
It was an age of mumficence, and muni-
licence in those days always took the shape
-• c to drink that would kill at
10 paces.
It was nigh to where the waters of the
Lachlan in gentle ripple flow in the solemn
silent wilds on the run of “Scraggy Simon”;
there, exempt from the sins and strife of
civilisation and the rude intrusion of the
rent-collector, lived the happy, uncultured
station-hands. Amongst them were three of
especial interest—Bridget Cody, general
rouseabout, “Biddy” for short and sweetness,
a child of nature with a red head; Ah Cat,
the cook, an unsophisticated Chow, whose
smile was lopsided, and whose countenance
appeared to have run like that of a wax
doll before a bush fire; and Teddy Kelly,
the boundary-rider. Teddy was a Tip, a
foine strappin’ young Irishman, wid a brogue
that’d do yer ’arts good to be bearin’, and
a nice little sum in gould sovereigns av his
own stowed away. Yah ! he was the great
masher was Teddy, and along with every
other youth within a ten-mile radius had
sworn to win and wed the beauteous Biddy
Cody; for Biddy was an angel in her own
right, and couldn’t get a minute’s peace for
the lovers she had. A splendid lump of a
guril, this Miss Biddy, and she just wound
the boys round her finger like the cruel
coquette she was. Even Ah Cat had laid his
heart and fortune at her feet. The Celestial
was a wheedling, persistent suitor, making
love with a gentle grace, and lisping his
tender sentiments in sing-song, pidgin Eng-
lish. His amorous at-
tentions seemed quite to
have touched the lovely
Biddy, and at last the
other wooers regretfully
acknowledged that the
contest lay between
Teddy and the haythen,
and the odds were freely
offered on Ah Oat’s
chance; but Edward
Kelly laughed the pre-
tensions of the Mongo-
lian to scorn, and fre-
quently, when in a
humorous ' mood, he
would wipe the floor
with his rival’s yellow
carcase, or trim his
almond eyes with a
fringe of mourning, just
to show Biddy he was
the better man by far
and away. Ah Cat re-
ceived these humiliations
with becoming meekness,
and it was only when
his love turned from him
entirely that he betrayed
any emotion, and, upon
hearing that she had
accepted Teddy’s offer
of marriage, he broke
down, and cried piteously
before all hands. But
Teddy was proud, arrah !
He waltzed round with
airy gladness, and sat
his prad with a loftier
mien, and grew as
uppish as a white ’pos-
sum ; while Ah Cat
waxed sallower, fell
away from his tucker,
and mooned round like
a broody fowl—you
never saw a man so put
about over a love affair.
The night after the wed-
ding there was riot and
revelry, and Edward
lorded it over the poor
Chow, and teemed down
the station rum, swear-
ing again and again he
was the happiest man
from home. That night
Ah Cat was caught
attempting to hang him-
self with a waist-belt;
he was remonstrated
with and pacified with
rum. The n e w-w e d
couple agreed to keep
their old positions on
the station, and, for the
time being, all was calm
and bright, but return-
ing late from a long ride
round, after, about two
weeks of wedded bliss,
Teddy was shocked to
find his wife miss-
ing. She had fled, Ah
Cat had fled, and the
bag of gold sovereigns
had fled also. Pinned
to the doormat was the
following little note:
“Me husbend I hev left
yez. The love uv me
heart was Ah Cat; he
sez I had best marry
yez first to find where
thim sovrins was hid.
We’ve helloped, tri and
forget yer Biddy.” Per-
haps Teddy was mad;
he rode two horses to
death hunting the fugi-
tives, and carried a
shotgun charged with
six pound of slugs, but he never saw his
Biddy any more, and he developed into a
moody misanthrope with a special antipathy
against the heathen Chinee.
A Sydney working-mans suburb. The
good wife is baking scones and she has her
back to the door. H'er very life has been
pestered out of her by hawkers of all sorts,
a 'd she has made up her mind to treat them
differently in future. The very day before,
her “old man” had “sold” her by knocking
at the door when she was performing her
ablutions, and now, it being just time for
him to come home from his work, when she
hears a tap at the door behind her, she does
not turn her head, but merely sings out,
thinking it is her hubby again teasing her,
“Come in, damn ye, if yer feet’s clean!”
As no one comes in, she turns her head,
just in time to see—the departing figure of
the Wesleyan minister! Neither she nor
her husband goes to that chapel now.
Young Lord Dudley once gave a dinner
for five, which cost 0)8, but this has been
overshadowed by a dinner for six, which
cost £l7O. Three-fifths of the latter was
for damaged furniture, however.
ONE HUNDRED YEARS OF AGE.
Long time had hardy mariners, strong both
of heart a*nd hand,
Their ship’s prow lit with hope to find this
shadowy Southern land ;
A land that dreamers dreamt about and
sages pondered o’er.
Still came no word to Northern climes of the
vast and distant shore.
What joy, then, thrilled the heart of Cook
when his good ship dropped her wings
To hear the music that the strand to the
deep sea* ever sings!
With eager haste by cheery men her sails
were quickly furled,
And the captain stood the sponsor proud of
another, greater world.
And when they bounded on the shore, those
trusty pioneers,
What sights and sounds of welcome weird
met startled eyes and cars!
The dingo woke strange echoes with his long
and dismal howl.;
And frightened flew in myriads the timid
water-fowl;
The kangaroo and emu o’er the grassy slope
soon sped ;
And tho painted monarch of the soil cowered
with a new-born dread,
As like a star he saw the vessel rise from
out the sea,
An avant courier to tell a change of mon-
archy.
To all the world that watched that star it
seemed a change for woe;
Yet they knew not what the future veiled
a hundred years ago.
But what see we who stand upon the summit
of those years?
A prospect bright, though the rea*rward look
is not undimmed by tears:
Strong young Australia stands to-day with
a gleaming in her eye
That tells to those of power to see she was
not born to die,
Although upon her virgin skirts the blood of
convicts filing,
And (baser shame) grim convict laws her
heaving bosom wrung.
Aye! though she yet with heavy heart may
lend a fettered hand
To gild decaying forms of wrong, wrought
in her mother la*nd,
Forewarned by all the old-world ills with
clearer eye to see
What brotherhood and justice mean, and
love and purity,
The noblest of the youngest, and the fairest
of the fair,
In her panoply of righteousness one day
she’ll do and dare
More than the hoary nations did, for lack
of heart or will,
Whose wealth had silenced poverty with the
mandate, “Peace, be still!”
If, crowning all her mightiness which surely
is to be,
She’ll ever wear the diadem of truth and
liberty,
Say ye, her loyal sons who love to call her
land your home,
How great Australia yet shall be a hundred
years to come!
HENRY O’DONNELL.


HAIR
r
need
HERES
WU) -
DFGFGHGJHDFGFGHGJHGJHGJH
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
Sfrojlvni* CMCXICAN)
Waited Stain
♦removes the grey"*
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct U/6), 6d. being postage.
fa
pCOMFOKf
(uticuraSoap
MfDICINftUTOIIET
ft
(uti
cura
ulnTlntnT
o
Three of Baby's
Best Friends!
Baby must be kept clean and un-
chafed, and Baby’s skin must not
be allowed to become rough or
irritated. Three friends are ready
to serve Baby every day through-
outtheyear; they are CUTICURA
SOAP, CUTICURA OINTMENT,
and CUTICURA TAUCUM.
Soap Is., Ointment la. and 2a.
Talcum la. 3d. Sample each free.
Address; "R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S.'W.’
m
5®
S®
m
m
m
Sw
X.
An empty Guinness
means a man
refreshed
GUINNESS has a wonderful restor-
ative power. A glass of GUINNESS
with the midday meal and on retiring
gives you strength and energy for
your work, and ensures sound refresh-
ing sleep* GUINNESS is a delicious
beverage full of natural goodness—it
nourishes and sustains —it restores
the wasted nerves —it stimulates the
flagging appetite.
GUINNESS makes you feel better
at once; taken daily it keeps you fit
and gives you a healthier and brighter
outlook.
Guinness
IS GOOD FOR YOU
N.B.—One pint of Guinness Foreign Extra Stout has a malt carbo-
hydrate content equal to one and a half pints of pure dairy milk.
A ▲ A
GF/A/K7
The Perkiness of Perkins
HAROLD MERGER
TFLLS HOW “THE MAN WHO WAS NEARLY HET”
GOT HIS START IN LIFE.
THIS ’ere business of laughing an’ the
world laughs with you,” said my old
friend Bill Birdseye, putting my
matches in his pocket (he had already levied
his usual tribute of tobacco), “ain’t what
it’s cracked up to be. An’ that’s what
Peter Perkins would tell you ’imself if ’e
was alive to-day to talk about it. For Peter
was one of them coves who is always
tryin’ to be the life an’ soul of
an’ makes everybody ’ate ’im for it.”
When I take a walk along the waterfront
to have a crack with some old acquaintances
I make a point of looking as innocent as
possible. That is an encouragement for
them to do their worst in regard to their
yarns; and this time I waited as usual.
“The shipwreck,” said Bill, “was all
right, if you understan’ me, as shipwrecks
go. She jest piled ’erself on the reef at
’igh tide; and before she started to go to
pieces everybody was able to get off without
being all het up.”
“You were talking about your friend Peter
Perkins?” I said, knowing that this was
an idiosyncrasy of Bill’s —going off at a
tangent to test whether you wore interested
in his story.
“Peter,” said Bill, “belonged to the ship’s
comp’ny of the Savaloy when she struck.
’E ’adn’t been seafarin’ all ’is life, Peter
’adn’t; born into the undertakin’ business
’e was, an’ it’s there ’e picked up ’e’s. first
ideas about takin’ a cheerful interest in ’is
work. When *e was only a ’prentice ’e used
to come ’ome cheerful at night to tell the
family about ’oo was dead, an’ ’ow they was
goin’ to bury ’em. It’s my opinion that’s
why ’e’s parents decided to go farmin’: as
long as they stayed in Melbin they could
’ardly ask ’im to go an’ board out some-
wheres. After that ’e used to keep boardin’-
’ouses amused whilst ’e chatted about ’e’s
day’s work and the corpses ’e’d met. It
never seemed to strike ’im that it was ’is
’appy conversation made landladies ask ’im
for ’is room so often.
“Still, in spite of some of ’is bosses
objectin’ to a man ’oo burst into song as
’e screwed down coffin-lids, or whistled jaunty
as ’e went out with a funeral, ’e didn’t
strike real trouble with ’is cheerfulness until
’e married. Now, a wife oughter be inter-
ested in ’er ’usband’s interests; but Mrs.
Peter never showed none in Peter’s account
of ’ow a coffin ’ad been trimmed. And ’is
’abit of bringin’ ’ome coffin-nails, to use as
cribbage pegs when ’e played with ’e’s
friends, or to tittivate the 'ouse with, got
’er real annoyed. Another ’abit that didn’t
please ’er was tbe way ’e used to remember
’er relatives.
‘“Aunt Mary?’ ’e would say. ‘Let me
see. Yes, I remember—oak casket, five-foot-
four. Nickel ’andles and fixin’s. Yes, I
remember Aunt Mary.’
“ ’E persisted in bein’ cheerful, even when
she started to throw crockery at ’im every
time ’e mentioned a coffin; but finally she
left ’im an’ sued ’im for alimony, quotin’ the
sound of the breakin’ crockery, which neigh-
bors ’ad ’eard, as evidence of ’is persistent
cruelty. ’E simply ’ad t’ ’ave someone to
talk to about ’is corpses, so ’e went to
pubs; and that day ’e sung ‘Beer, Beer,
Glorious Beer’ while drivin’ an ’earse to
a funeral was the finish. The loss of ’e’s
job on top of ’e’s alimony beat ’im ; ’e went
to sea. An’ that’s ’ow ’e come to be a
member of the crew of the Savaloy, known
by the name o’ Bay, which was short fer
‘our little ray of sunshine,’ that bein’ what
the crew decided ’e wanted to be after bein’
acquainted with ’im fer ’arf a’ hour.
“As I says, the shipwreck was done well;
for although the Savaloy was a total wreck
on a’ island a good bit off the track, it was
pretty sure we’d be took off in time; an’
we was able to get ashore with lashin’s of
stores and provisions, while the Kay made
cheerful remarks about picnic parties. There
was water on the island; an’ the worst that
was likely to ’appen to us was that we’d
get dead sick o’ one another, shut up together
on a little back yard of a’ island in a wilder-
ness o’ water.
“We started by gettin’ dead sick o’ Peter
Perkins makin’ jokes about the ’ole dam’
thing.
“There wasn’t no need fer us to think o’
cannibalism if Peter ’adn’t brought up the
subjec’ in ’is jokin’ way. ‘We needn’t be
afraid o’ starvin’, any’ow,’ ’e says. ‘Jest
get a’ eyeful of Bingy Parsons; nicely
roasted, ’e’d go round the ’ole company fer
dinner fer three or four days.’
“Bingy Parsons, as went to about twenty
stone an’ not bein’ a hoptimist prob’ly
thought it might come ter that, looked at
’im sour an’ tried t’ appear as if ’e was
ten stone smaller.
“ ‘Taken with plenty of mustard,’ says
Perkins, ‘ ’e’d digest all right. I slipped a
few tins o’ mustard inter me pocket before
we left the ship, jest in case.’
“Bingy started to ’ate ’im from that
moment; an’ the ’atred grew as Perkins
wept on day arter day making ’is fersetious
remarks, such as: ‘Ain’t it time we started
makin’ a bakin’ dish fer Bingy? ’E’ll be
full o’ rich gravy when ’e’s roasted. It’d
be a shame to waste any of it.’
“Jest ’ow Bingy felt about it you can
guess by the fact that ’e got up about day-
break every mornin’ to take a run round
the beach, as if ’e was in trainin’ ter win
a long-distance runnin’ championship. It
was one of the island amusements t’ get
up early to see ’im waddlin’ across the land-
scape like a’ animated bag o’ fat.
“But Bingy wasn’t the only one to suffer.
When Stiffy Garter goes a bit off-color one
mornin’, Perkins says, says ’e: ‘ ’Ere’s Stiffy
lookin’ as if ’e’s goin’ ter peg out on us.
Can we afford to waste our larder in that
fashion? If Stiffy dies ’e oughter be glad
to die fer the good of the commoonity.
Stooed gently, ’e wouldn’t be too tough.’
“Or to a cbap ’oo’s name was Swan ’e’d
say‘Roast Swan ! Cripes, that’d go well!
Why, it’d be like the kings o’ Hingland
used ter dine!’ One way an’ another, they
all got their little turn; an’ it made ’em
love ’im like a brother, I don’t think!
“Y’see, blokes might never think o’ doin’
a certain thing, hut mention it to ’em and
they’ll do it. A bloke, fer instance, might
never, left to isself, think o’ bein’ dishonest;
but start to show you suspect ’e might, an'
talk about it, an’ ’e does. So there on the
island we started to look each other over
and do a guess, wonderin’ if the worst come
to the worst ’ow this and that bloke and go,
an’ whether he’d be best roast or boiled.
An’ we’d get a creepy sort o’ feelin’ every
time we caught other blokes lookin’ at us..
“ ‘There must be somethin’ in this canni-
balism,’ said Sad Mas we sat on the beach
one night smokin’ afore turnin’ in. ‘Look
’ow ’ard it is to break niggers off their taste
fer long pig, as they calls it!’
“ ‘ln the Tasmanian convic’ settlements,’
says Cap’n Flemin’, ‘there useter be prison-
ers ’oo, ’aving got the taste,, useter entice
other prisoners to escape with them jest
to satisfy the cravin’.’
“O’ course, blokes like Bingy didn’t care
to talk upon such a subject, but Swan puts
in • ‘I wouldn’t mind ’avin’ a go at it, jest
to see what it’s like. It can’t be too bad!’
“‘Too bad?’ exclaimed Perkins, cheer-
fully. ‘Let me tell yous a nice bit o’ long
pork is jest the thing fer a change—a sorter
Sunday dinner.’
“ ‘Well,’ says the skipper, ‘seein’ as ’ow you
started the idea, ’ow about you volunteerin’
to be the first to go, fer the good of yer
fellers?’
“There was a sort of approvin’ growl;
an’ lookin’ round to see a dozen pair of eyes
glintin’ in the starlight, as they fixed on ’im,
Perkins must’ve come to the conclusion that
this wasn’t all in ’e’s own banterin’ style,
for ’e gives a nervous little laugh.
“ ‘We’d all remember you as an ’ero,
’specially if you ’appened to be the only one
as ’ad to go,’ says the cap’n seriously.
“‘lt’d certainly ’elp the stores ter last
out,’ sa«ys Joe the cook.
“ ‘lt wouldn’t be fair to yous blokes,
says Perkins, still tryin’ ter be as fer-
setious as usual but a bit shaky over it. ‘To
make long pork real tasty you’ve gotter
’ave an expert like me as cook. Joe’d
simply spile the joint.’
“ ‘Ain’t I a’ expert?’ ” says Joe. ‘Let me
tell you this: I read a’ article once on ’ow
keepin’ cattle contented and cheerful im-
proved the quality of the meat. It stands
ter reason the same thing applies to ’uman
meat. The most cheerful bloke is bound to
taste the best. An’ ’oo’s the most cheerful
bloke ’ere?’
“There was a sorter simultaneous murmur
that it was Perkins. The conversation was
continued on these lines till we noticed
Perkins ’ad vanished.
“After that, though ’e still tries to be
perky, Peter began to show signs of ner-
vousness. Whenever any of the blokes looks
at ’im ’e’d give a sorter little jump, and
whenever ’e was with any of ’em ’e always
worked it to keep a bit apart, lookin’ as
if ’e was ready ter bolt. The talk about
long pork was kep’ up; the fellers said it
looked ’s if it was bound to ’appen sooner
or later now that the subjec’ ’ad been
broached.
“I shall never fergit ’ow Perkins looked
one mornin’ when a deputation (I was one
of it) called on ’im early, an’ ’e sprung up
in ’e’s shirt to meet us.
“ ‘Where’s that mustard Yer said yer
brought ashore?’ asks Joe the cook. ‘Stores
is run short, an’ a bit o’ long pork wouldn’t
be ’arf what it should be without mustard.’
“ ‘That was only my joke,’ says Perkins,
shiverin’ a bit.
“ ‘We’re goin’ to search,’ says I. ‘We
must ’ave that mustard ready fer the feast.
My appetite’s all worked up.’
“We picks up ’e’s clothes, lookin’ through
’e’s pockets, when the cook gives a yell.
Dodgin’ out like an ’are, Perkins was
sprintin’ away with ’is shirt tails flappin’ in
the mornin’ breeze. The cook’s yell wakes
up others, an’ they leaps up to join us in the
chase. A lot of them was only in their
shirts, too. It was a funny sight to see
’em, with Perkins goin’ ’ell fer leather in
the lead.
“We lost sight of ’em in the ’ill, which
is covered with vegetation. But we gets
search parties out. The boys, not ’avin’
’ad anything ter do fer a long time, enjoyed
it; an’ while some searches the others starts
ter make a big fire on the beach.
“Takin’ a bit of a spell, we could see them
at it.
“ ‘They’re goin’ to make a good roast of
Ray,’ I says. ‘lt makes me feel ’ungry to
think of it.’
“ *’E oughter eat very well,’ says Sadler,
‘lf you’d said to me three weeks ago that
I’d be thinkin’ of eatin’ ’uman flesh an’
likin’ the prospect you’d ’ave give me the
’orrors.’
“ l ’E started it. talkin’ about cannibalism,’
says Bingy. ‘Ullo, didn’t you ’ear a rustle
in them bushes? We got ’im, boys.’
“We all jumped up, ready to make a dash
into the clump; but, to save us the trouble,
Perkins comes out, ’e’s shirt all in ribbons
where ’e’d torn it dashin’ through the bushes.
“ ‘Boys!’ ’e yells, ‘there’s a steamer over
there, cornin’ this way ! We’re saved !’
“We all stares and finds ’e’s right. But
I turns and grabs Perkins.
“ ‘Come on, boys.’ I says. ‘Catch ’old of
’im an’ tie ’im up.’
“’E put up an ’ell of a struggle, yellin’
to us that we couldn’t be so in’uman as to
eat a feller creature now that there wasn’t
no necessity; but Sadler tells ’im we’ve
been thinkin’ about long pork so long that
now we’ve jest got to ’ave a taste of it
before, we’re rescued. So, all trussed up, an'
cursin’ us like ’ell, when ’e wasn’t pleadin’
an’ askin’ us if we didn’t ’ave mothers too,
we carried ’im down to the beach, where
the fire’s blazin’.
(Continued on newt page.)


Motor Cyclists!
LODGE
Plugs were used by
winners in every
race!
in the Austrian Motor-cycle T.T.
races. Every class-winner —175e.e..
250 c. c., 350c.c. and 500c.c. —used
LODGE. This is only another instance
of Lodge Plug superiority. If you, too,
wish to ride a winner—
fit Lodge, the dependable
Plugs.
Illustrated is the Lodge
III —Sports . plugs jor
hot work. ‘
6/9
In sealed
metal
box.
'll)))).
■sg
Obtainable from
all garages and
accessory
houses.
LODGE PLUGS LIMITED,
Rugby, England.
Sunday in Melbourne
Especially when
it’s Raining
Is Reported To
Be Somewhat
Depressing!
But a Sunday
In Sydney
Is Never Dull.
The Reason is
That Thoughtful
Citizens
Prepare for
Week-end
Hospitality
By Taking Home
on Friday
The Requisite Number
of Bottles of
Resch's
DA
The Refreshing
DINNER ALE
Although Electric Sets are in great
demand where Electric Light is
available, it must be realised that
there are hundreds of Country
homes where the Battery-Operated
Receiver is the only workable means
of bringing to the people out-back
the unlimited radio joys and enter-
tainment now provided by the
Broadcasting Companies.
r
1
V
£
The
Low-priced
Receiver
that
transplants
the
Country
Home
to the
Heart
of the
SPLITDORF
(Battery-operated)
6-Valve
RADIO
Unfailing performance. . . .perfect clarity.
.... simplicity of operation .... the
“Splitdorf” gives you all three. . . .in
truth, the perfect set for the home out-
back. Stations far distant or otherwise,
even during daylight hours, come in
instantly at a turn of the dial.
The “Splitdorf” Receiver consists of three
stages of Radio.... one Detector and two
Audio. It is also fitted with an aerial
compensator. Operates from “A” and
“B ” Batteries, or with an “A” Battery
and “A” Battery Charger and “B” and
“C” Eliminator.
Complete vhth all
Accessories and the
incomparable Magna-
vox Cone Speaker, at
the amazingly low
' ' ' price of
£35
EASY DEFERRED
PAYM E N T S
No further shipments of the “Splitdorf”
will be coming forward. .As only a limited
number of the present stocks remain, early
placement of your order is advised.
COUNTRY |
RESIDENTS i
Your nearest Radio dealer will completely
instal and service a Splitdorf Radio for you.
All Letters to Box ISB, Haymarkcl, Sydney.
Mick Simmons
LTD.,
HAY MARKET, SYDNEY
“Wholesale -and Retail Dealers in Radio:'
that you could get satisfaction from! And
when you’re dealing with what’s perish-
able”....
“The boats are going to run by the clock
from now on,” Lew told him, “and if they
don’t, every bob’s worth of damage is on
me.”
He talked on with a fluent enthusiasm
that was new to him. The Passage was
their port, and it was up to them to use
it to the limit; if they wanted a cheap
outlet to the markets there wasn’t anything
better than the water. Later on, perhaps,
they might form a co-operative company
in which all the growers and shippers would
have shares; a company that would replace
the present boats with better ones, build
new jetties and offices, and have its own
service of trucks between the range and the
coast.
“It’s no wild-cat scheme, like some of
Osborne’s,” he said. “Just a natural
development. No knowing what we couldn’t
build up here if we all worked together.”
They agreed that this was so. There was
something in his direct approach that won
their confidence, something in his heavy,
dark face that made them warm to him. A
solid, self-confident figure he looked in his
corduroy breeches and muddy leggings, with
his head set squarely on powerful shoulders
and his crisp, black hair showing a bit
grizzled around the ears. The sort of
fellow you could trust to keep rooted in the
one place! Not one of the here-to-day-and-
God-knows-where-to-morrow kind!
Late the next evening he rode down
to the Passage again with enough pledges
of support to make the future of his boats
secure. He dozed in the saddle as he jogged
over the sandy plain, his body tired, his
brain wrapped in a woolly mist. The echo
of other people’s voices and his own, repeat-
ing the same things over and over, were in
his ears; he felt that if he could shut
them out some great happiness would steal
into him from the silence of the shrub-
covered plain and star-hung sky. But tin
echoes made him drowsy.
He was roused by the roar of surf on
the bar, and the bright beams of the light
house on the hill cut across his sleep-heav\
eyes like a sword. The rest of the settle
ment was in darkness, except for a lantert
winking from a punt in the channel and thi
faint, distant glimmer that came from th
McNair bungalow through the trees. Hi
was surprised by that glimmer.
“It’s the painters camping in the ok
house,” he told himself.
But before he knew it he was riding ove
to see. The men working at the bungalov
had a tent down by the Haigs’, he remem
bered; besides, they had nearly finishei
.the job when he left. ■
He hung up his mare at the fence am’
stumbled over the uncropped grass towar<
the verandah. A door opened before h
reached it: he saw Clem standing in th
opening with a lamp behind her, but fo
the moment his dark-accustomed eyes wer
even more aware of the lighted room tha
of her. It had such a look of homely dis
order; boxes half-opened, canvases stackei
against the wall, books and clothing lyin
on the chairs. He remembered, with a sens
of oddness, that he had never set foot ii
this house before.
“Why, it’s you, Lew!” was all Clem
said.
Yet he felt a thrill in her voice, a suddei
flow of her being towards him.
“I saw the light and guessed you’d conn
back,” he told her. r
She knew he had come a long way, anc’
ran to put the kettle on the fire, clutchin
her kimono round her and brushing sonn
clothes off a chair for him as she passed
A constraint was on him as he sat down
the miles of shadowy plain over which h
had come still flowing round him, washin
up against the edges of his mind like :
noiseless tide.
(To he concluded next week.)
“ ‘Where’s that mustard yer brought
ashore?’ demands Cap’n Flemin’, cornin’ up
to talk to ’im after ’e’d been dumped in the
sand near the fire.
“ ‘Cap’n,’ he 3-ells, ‘you bein’ in command
an’ responsible, you can’t allow this to go
on ! ’Ere’s rescue cornin’ an’ ’
“ ‘We’ve jest got time to cook you before
a boat puts ashore,’ says the skipper. ‘You
wouldn’t like ter go to your Maker feelin’
that you’d caused indigestion to yer feller
creatures through the lack of a little mus-
tard, would you ? Come, be a man an tell us
where you put it. _ . .
“‘There amt no mustard, yells Perkins,
frantic. ~ . , , . . ,
a hore? *t" a g
aS ‘‘Perkins nodded ’ard as if ’e ’ad anew
’ope. ‘Cap’n,’ ’e whined, “uman flesh ain’t
worth eatin’ without mustard. Besides, as
you say, it’s indigestible.’
“ ‘Well, if there ain’t none, we ll ave ter
try you without,’ says the cap’n with a
sort o’ sigh. ‘Better git on with your 30D,
Joe.’
“As the cook approached, knife in ’and,
p er kins near split ’Eaven with ’is shrieks.
But ’is larst shriek, the biggest yell ’e could
muster, as the knife went down ter ’im, was
dro wiided in a roar of laughter. Perkius
sat up s toopidly, with ’is bonds cut, starin
al . oun d at the ’ole crew larfin’ at ’im.”
B ill Birdseye knocked out his pipe and
lie]d hig hand out blindly but with a gestm\
that was irresistible. So was the next one.
w j ien drew bis sleeve across his lips. Ht
was rapidly emptying my tobacco-pouch as
we moved towards the bar.
“Perkins knocked a forchin outer it,’’ In
said. Ever struck the sideshow of Tin
Man ’OO Was Nearly Het . Well, that wm,
Ray-made quite a story out of it, e did!
Granuaile.
After long years she walked a certain street,
Lost in a jubilance lough-deep
About some little chaffer she had made;
And so she muttered to herself,
Shaking some coins along her fist with joy,
And leaving such a dreamy drone
As whitethorn bees take with them to the
comb.
And it was quiet in that place,
As she went murmuring beside its wall.
But oh, there came a running cry,
A brush as of a field of startled larks,
And the dead rose to that old voice
That pierced with bumbling, earthly ecstasy,
Through seven Heavens to the heart,
And made them leave archangels for a
sound.
And yet—oh mockery, oh pain—-
One soul cried out, a twinkle in his rue,
“God love us all! A dickerer!
Brothers, we thought that it was Granuaile.”
MAOBILAND.
EILEEN DUGGAN.
When I Come Home.
Let there be singing of winds,
Long winds and cold,
Blowing from the south and the snow,
Wild winds that hold
Secrets that only we know,
We who are born of the South!
Let there be singing of birds!
Tell the brown thrush
And the blackbirds that sang each new morn
In the grey hush;
Tell the larks in the furrows of corn
I shall come home with the spring.
Seek the brown bees as they skim
Low in the breeze,
Droning through mintfields that throw
Round the old trees
Carpets of blue! Let them know
I shall be home with the spring.
Let there be singing of seas
And of white stars,
The song of dark seas as they foam
On harbor bars,
And the far song of stars as they roam
Over the weald of the sky!
Singing of streams may there be,
Sound of soft rills
Following lone, limpid ways
Through the brown hills,
By paths where the black tomtit strays
And the bush-pigeon croons in the gloom!
Let there be singing, Beloved,
Your song, soft, low;
No other song shall I hear,
None other know,
Rut the voice of your heart, knowing me
near,
Coming home with the first of the spring.
N.S.W.
LILLA GORMHUILLE MOKAY.
Winter Landscape.
Granny Sloan’s roof is so red, Mr. Brown’s
cottage so green,
When met with apart they’re a grief to tin
heart,
And more than a blot on the scene.
But something has softened the green, ha
lent a new grace to the red;
Some wise, thoughtful fellow has planted r
willow,
And made them a pleasure instead.
„'_ , _
So old Granny s roof near - the road, an
neighbor Brown’s efforts in green, \
Are lovely together this drab wintry weath:
A naked, tall willow between.
There’s a pang of delight in the red, an
°b there’s a joy in the green,
With only a willow, a slender bright willov.
A lovely bronzed willow between!
maobiland.
MARY WALKER.
The Pull.
It’s hard to say exactly what’s the pull
That brings a man back to his land at last
And if you ask he’ll mumble be don’t know—
He just wanted a sort of look-round, though
So much time’s past.
Same as with me. I don’t know what it if
Seems like I only know the things it ain’t
It ain’t a girl, or no particular one—
They’re much the same when all is said am
done:
Fluff, chatter, paint.
It ain’t my folks, for some of ’em are dead
And some don’t give a tinker’s curse for mi
“Oh, Rod? He ain’t no good”—their lin
of gab,
Me never tryin’ hard the cash to nab;
Queer-like, you see.
It ain’t my friends; they’re scattered Lord
knows where.
I’d never chum up with a city mate.
Drovers and shearers on the wallaby,
Sundowners, diggers—wiA’*. to Coolgardie,
North to the Strait.
And nor it ain’t the bush. I know the
bush—
I reckon that I know it, anyways.
Bush fires and clearin’, prospectin’ for gold ,
Sick, lost and weary, if the truth was told,
Too many days.
It ain’t the old selection. On a farm
Even a nipper works day in, day out,
Milkin’ and helpin’ when he ain’t at school,
Waterin’ the stock at the fast-shrinkin’ pool
In times of drought.
And yet—and yet, the pull’s there just the
same,
Naggin’ and foolish, bv uv
Till you give in, and swear and wonder then
If the same* blue-gums cut tin* sny us wucn
You was a kid.
BERMUDAS.
PHYLLIS ROWLEY.


m
VK. t
B~
■i i-i'
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
of Australasia, Ltd.,
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
I
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHXJRCH. Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 I'eatherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—“ Chancery Hous e /' 485 B o virke Street, Melbourne
South Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LID., Adelaide,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
“THE AGE”
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
Established 185//.
ADVERTISERS!
The Court Instructs every Jury to keep an
open mine!, and record a verdict according to
the evidence placed before them.
When considering future allocations for Vic-
toria, weigh the following evidence for “The
Age.’’
Audited net Sales 122,501 daily
(60% Metropolitan—4o% Country).
Over 96% of distribution home
delivered to subscribers.
Over 95% of home deliveries remain
in the household for reading during
the day.
And over 1,000,000 advertisements
are published in its columns annually.
“The Age’s” dominant note is “Australia
First,” and its effect on the minds of
readers and power for good to the Common-
wealth are incalculable.
Further information and rates on application
to the principal Service Agents in all States,
or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
47 Fleet Street, London.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Beading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
3f»5 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
CIK mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
(Established 1854)
The "Mercury” is the only Metro-
politan Newspaper in the State.
Its news services, articles, typo-
graphy are unexcelled in Australia.
THE "MERCURY” COVERS
TASMANIA.
And its circulation exceeds the
combined figures of the dailies in
Tasmania. Delivered by fast motor-
cars, it reaches Launceston (121
miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before break-
fast.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
"SO Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
Che fldoertisef
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of "THE A DVEnTISM}” may be
obtained at all Inter-State agencies of
&lessrs. Gordon & Gotch, price IJ d.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Experimenting!
How much a year do
you waste in unneces-
sary experiments?
Cut waste and
advertise with a
“Result Bringer.”
“The
Telegraph”
(Brisbane)
Has proved itself over
58 years a good “Result
Bringer” for all adver-
tisers.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co., Ltd,
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Sydney Representative:
N. L. ROBERTS, 1
Country Press Co-op. Co. of Aust., Ltd.,
Barrack. Street, Sydney.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought -to know. Once you
read it you will never* be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
DFGFGHGJHGJH
’warn
tnat **
tTA?tr^tv stao»»
tSle e Ute^leV?»
« should >ajc^ is
, J aio ate Bl^ ltia "The
sott icie»t ;
»s^ 6 |
v» a s 3,,pve‘ u
&
d
Guinea a Box;
“The Examiner”
Tasmania’s Oldest Daily Newspaper. Established 1842.
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, C overing the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s Best
Illustrated Weekly is the
“Weekly Courier”
Published
Every
Wednesday
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper.
feuLletin
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6. 8, months from ,
for ichich I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/«
y-
0
0°
e
6)’
s e
s e
. • ■' . • • ’ .« *' -VS°'>
0
3
3
alv*


HUDSONS
m
K
Q
S'
w
*
Gives
ride
you
constant coasting
It is a Totally New Type Eight
Finest of all riding sensations is coasting. Gravity
pulls like a magnet. No vibration. Just free
smooth travel.
Sometimes you have experienced it in a motor
car—thrown out the clutch at the top of a long,
paved hill and coasted down. Motor car engineers
long have sought to build cars that would ride
that way, up hill and down, on the level road,
throughout the full speed range. Hudson’s
Great 8 gives you a ride like constant coasting.
A new design principle is responsible. Motor
vibration is hardly perceptible. Greater horse-
power in proportion to weight increases alertness.
It is the same principle as in current airplane
development. Motor power thus has real chance
to be effective, saving in fuel and more economi-
cal in every way.
There is new smartness—modernistic, distinctive.
Radiator, wings, body contours and paneling
reflect it. Inside and out new motif is revealed
in line, detail, treatment and finish.
Roof line is lower, yet head room is greater and
road clearance increased. Wider seats—more com-
fort. See this new car at your Hudson-Essex
merchants. Drive Hudson’s Great Eight your-
self and you will immediately agree that it is
a totally new type of car.
HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY
DETROIT, U. S. A.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY,
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
DISTRIBUTORS:
DFGFGHGJHGJH
DFGFGHGJHGJH
Tasmania
. . H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
53 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
