

MORE
AMD BETTER.
23
\k
i5/.r
and m tins of
50&I00
N the run ... in a hurry ... everyone
chases good values ... so smokers have
rushed Country Life ... Cork-tips ... better
Virginia tobacco blended differently ... a
swagger tin ... all this and 3 more cigarettes
for the usual 1/6 ... combined in Country Life
. . . they’ve been rushed ... no wonder.
Made in Your Own Country at the Garden Factory -
Raleigh Park - by W. 0. & H. O. Wills (Australia) Ud.
1
-sasews
VI IVG I N I A
COR.K—T I PPED
1.05
The Bulletin
feorul o\ Itm, QavcL What io : Pafft 8 *
Vol. 51.—N0. 2642.
Wednesday, October 1, 1930.
Price 6d.
Begistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


■"THE New Library Catalogue for 1930 is
now ready, and will be forwarded with
full terms arid particulars, post free on
application to
DYMOCK’S 'bOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
“Whistle away your blues!” my lad
What I have brought will make you glad •
For gasping lungs, or aching “flu,” ’
For hacking cough and sore throat, too
Whistle away your blues!” and sing
The ease you need—the surest thing • ’
Free of narcotics, pure and sure—
“O-K.- Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
Learn
StorM Writing
ims
Book FREE to
SEND THIS COUPON
YOU!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence Collette
100 Russell Street, Melbourne ’
Please send, without obligation, your New Pro
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit n,
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. 1 * M
My Name ..
My Address
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
ft
THE DINNER
Host Holbrooh Says:
“ My Worcester-
shire Sauce is mat-
ured like an old
wine. It has a
piquancy that age
alone can impart.
Just a few drops
with the Soup, Fish,
or Meat. Ah ! the
finishing touch to a
good dinner.”
/
A REAL THRILLER
“THE VANISHING HORSEMEN”
A Romance by Mr. A. E. Yarra.
‘‘Times Literary Supplement” (London), says: “An
exciting- tale of the ‘Wild West’ of Australia with
fisticuffs, alarums, desperate riding- and cattle thieves
....plenty of action and humor.”
At all booksellers, 6/«
. NOW READY, AT ALL BOOKSELLERS, '
THE ABORIGINAL WORDBOOK,
By JUSTINE KENYON
(With a Foreword by A. S. Kenvon).'
The most authentic collection of aboriginal words
and their meanings ever published. This compila-
tion has meant many years of reseafch, and the
author is an authority on the subject. With this
book to guide them, no one need be afraid of adopt-
ing a ludicrous or even obscene name for the home.
Price, 2/-, Neatly Boxed. (Postage, 2d.)
All Australians should read and enjoy a laugh
with
THE MAGICIANS,
A Clever Political Satire by Henry Chisholm.
This brilliantly written and caustic criticism of
present-day political iniquities provides considerable
amusement.
Price, fid. (Postage, Id.)
The Lothian Publishing Co. Pty., Ltd.,
497 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE IDEAL GIFT FOR
A MAH
IS A
ROLLS
RAZOR
The British ONE BLADE Safety Razor that
strops and hones itself and saves the cost
of thousands of wafer blades.
The Rolls Razor stands alone.
THE BEST SAFETY RAZOR IN THE
WORLD.
Imperial No. 1, 50/-; No. 2, 40/-
Froni all high-class stores.
Illustrated Catalogue sent post free to any
address.
Wholesale Distributors:
Mick Simmons, Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
D. Reddan & Co., Melbourne, Victoria and
Tasmania.
Mick Simmons, Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland
dfgfdgfd
wm
wm
w
m
skilful
ropers
“Let ’er buck
yells the cowboy
as the broncho
begins leaping
and twisting .
- • • cowboys you see in America
on your way to ENGLAND
Wearing big hats and leather chaps, proud of their
silver-mounted saddles and bridles, cowboys gaho >
their ponies through America’s West. For diversion
they ride bucking bronchos and do amazing tricks with
lariats. They’re a friendly sort, glad to be of help to
a “tenderfoot.”
Tou can see cowboys in America on your way to
England. Plan your next trip home this way—from
hydney to San Francisco on a fast Matson liner, then
by luxurious modern traip across the continent to your
Atlantic steamer. The cost is moderate.
Let us help you plan your trip. No charge for the
America lkerature “ To England Across
Write to Dept. M21,
AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL
and INFORMATION REREAD
12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
The Red Page
The Wild Swan
Mary Gilmore, in 'her latest argosy of
verse, The Wild Swan (Robertson and
Mullens), nails this message to the mast-
head :
Mark now this argosy which I set sail,
A thousand ships, a thousand words,
Hoping- that no contemptuous lettered flail
Beat all my merchandise to sherds.
It seems to indicate a writer’s fear of some
thing of which no writer has any need to b
afraid—minority opinion; the very rubb
upon which our literary censorship is baser
And yet this sort of acknowledgment, which
have found in several Australian books
late, is not without hopefulness. Alay :
not point to a virtue in all our variot
forms of censorship? May not work sue
as Katharine Prichard is doing, such a
Norman Lindsay has done in “Redheap
and in his other art, and such as Mar.
Gilmore has done, despite that seeming feat
in this latest book of hers, be an out
come of the writers having been aroused
to do their best, in protest? The morality
question—taking morality in the sex sens
—does not enter into Mary Gilmore’s book
as it does into the others. But the gqnera
inhibition question certainly does. Mrs
Gilmore’s regard for the “contemptuou
(fettered flail” is really an indication of ou
littleness in literature. That Mrs. Gilmore
actually doesn’t care two straws for tha
flail, or for the even more figurative anc
much more destructive flail that Australia
still swings against those who dare to be
Australian, dare to belong to their time
and soil, is not to the point. She acknow
ledges that the writer in Australia ha
more to contend against than the necessary
difficulties of art. That she and a few
others are daring to face such other diffi-
culties may, after all, be the holding up
of a little gleam in a wretched cultura
darkness.
Australia, in this year of disgrace, is net
doing so badly in literature. And Mary
Gilmore, with this book, takes place at
once among the more important of those
who are achieving in spite of, or it may be
because of, what the writer who declines
to be other than sincere has to face out
The particular form of discouragement that
she defeats is the prevailing indifference
to. the importance of Australian writers
being Australian in their work. That, of
course, does not consist in scattered refer-
ence to gum-trees, the use of native names
and suchlike, though a surprising number
appear to accept that that is what is meant
by it. .It lies deeper. It is quite uncon-
scious in these few writers. It is, as with
Katharine Prichard’s prose, Mary Gilmore’s
verse, the life-spark of the artist sent out
in the work. There is nothing obviously
Australian in this from Mary Gilmore’s “A
Song of Swans,” and yet how clearly it is
purely Australian literature:—
Never again as of old shall we know tire flight
Of the swans in their going; like petals they fell,
Tiiey are gone, they are dead; they have passed
in the blight
Of our being! Never again will the day, or the
night,
Hear, as they fly, the sound of their trumpeting
bell
On the air till it dies like the lapse of a swell!
Never again shall the moonlight gleam on the wing!
i.ike a blast of the desert we came, and we slew;
We burned the reeds where the nestlings lingered,
till Spring,
That sang in the bird, came in like a dull dead
thing!
Now only the dreamer dreams of the hosts we
knew,
The trembling died in the flame of our passing
through.
If is not artificial; it belongs. It is the
poet alive. It is autobiography of spirit,
not the physical life. She writes Australia
rather than of Australia; she is an Aus-
tralian rather than an Australian writer.
The impression comes from the book as
a whole, but one other extract may help
to point it:—
Mv mother’s terrors wake .in me,
And all her fears are ■mine!
The hollow night that arching bends
Above the earth, dark, thong'll we see
The stars that down upon us shine,
Seemed but to emphasise how small
In its pavilion,
How lone where its grey curtain ends
Folded her round, was. she whose call
Broke on the boundless and was gone.
Yet there love built its house for her,
And there with hovering wings
Life poised aud smiled—who never lends
Save with the usury of a spur
Upon each gift of joy he brings.
Now, as beneath her heart she bore
Me —her unconscious child—-
So in my heart, while time ascends,
Sounds the deep spaces’ murmuring roar
Shudder the trehiorj of the wild.
My mother’s terrors wake in me,
And all her fears are mine.
A. H. Chisholm, naturally associated in
wiiting a preface to this book because he
is a naturalist and nature spring of
many of these poems, of The Wild
Swan as a “definite flame in the glow that
is to illumine Australia Felix for the world
and for our own people.” It could not
very well have been put better than tliac.
ine book holds the flame of a very sin-
cere artist in it; an artist of feeling and
syppathy and understanding of her time,
of life as she has known it where
nas known it.
The publishers have risen to an occasion
bj r making their part of the pro faction
excellent. ]
Cecil Mann
White Australia—and After
In Ihe II arid s Population Problems an
a ¥ kite Australia (P. S. King: Robertson
and Mu liens), H. L. Wilkinson, of Brighto
(Vic.), throws some new light on an ancien
argument. \\ ithout being partisan, he ex
J-ses the charlatanry ol such as Fleetwooc
Chiddell, who got much publicity in Eng-
land with his “Australia, White or Yellow?’
in which he castigated this country for no
accommodating the annual net increase o
Italy (400,000) in the nor’-west of West
ralia. Wilkinson points out that the
annual increase in the Commonwealth for
piactically the whole of its brief history
has been twice the average for the rest ol
the world.
Not only has the white Australian estab-
lished his title to this continent in the
mere matter of numbers, but at ftie same
time he has achieved a standard of living
onl > exceeded by the United States, whicf
had the advantage of a mortgage on the war-
rumed countries of Europe to assist her. Wib
kmson argues that the cost of such a perform
ance was not only bound to be huge but was
practically inevitable. Further progress in
the same direction and at the same velocity
will entail still further running into debt
and if the risk is not taken and the debt
incurred the holders of the country will
continue to be criticised for not effectively
occupying their section of the universe.
Wilkinson estimates that there is suitable
land in Australia for establishing an addi-
tional 330,000 new small farms on good
areas and 90,000 wheat farms on drier
areas, and that if about £250,000,000
is allowed for public works, railways and
water supply, the future capital require-
ments of agriculture alone will amount to
£1.000,000)000.
This puts the White Australia policy in
a new perspective, and those foreign states-
men, white or colored, who inveigh against
the Australian for being a dog in a manger
might ponder the financial aspects of the
problem. Wilkinson makes the additional
interesting assertion that if the country had
been thrown open to unrestricted immi-
gration the position, from a world popula-
tion point of view, would be worse instead
of better. He estimates that by now' Aus-
tralia would contain a bare 4.000,000 whites
and a similar number of brown and yellow-
coolies. The whites would be restricted,
as in South Africa, to the higher grades of
industry, while the 4,000,000 low-grade
colored people would be engaged in menial
tasks or pottering around with' inefficient
industry and agriculture. The low purchas-
ing power of the browns and yellows would
have retarded the development of irriga-
tion, roads, railways and manufactures, and
there would be less food for exportation to
feed the surplus of overcrowded countries.
In short, the White Australia policy has
resulted in this country being of more
assistance to a world bent on doubling itself
within a century than if it had been
rendered available for Uncle Sam, Ah Sin
and Dorasamy in person. If, in a mood of
mistaken idealism, Australia had opened
her doors to the world’s human surplus, it
could not have absorbed more than a few
hundred thousand even of the lowest class
of coolie available, and even a million of
them would be a drop in the bucket con-
sidering that the increase of this fecund
globe is in the regiQn of 12 annual millions.
Concerning Australia’s tropics, Wilkinson
is pessimistic except about the portion which
Queensland is developing as rapidly as is
humanly possible. Most of the remain-
ing area he considers unsuitable for
agriculture, the rain being plentiful but
coming at the wrong season and being so
violent as to wash out the nourishment.
Queensland’s tropics could support more
people on a lower grade of civilisation, but
it is doubtful whether the larger number
would produce more, and they would make
the problem of tropical disease insoluble,
create ! international “incidents,” prevent
persons with a higher standard of living
from immigrating, and ruin the credit of
the country almost as effectively as Jock
Garden’s talk of repudiation would if Jock
were taken seriously. The countries threat-
ened with overpopulation are Germany,
Italy, India, Japan and Java. Germany has
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—ALWAYS adhered to at Anthony Horderns’.
Achieve two Savings
on One Purchase —
save time and labor —-and save £5/18/6
Electric Kettle, 45/-
The “Hecla” Electric Kettle is
thoroughly efficient in boiling
water speedily. Nickel-plated
throughout. Attractively finished.
Supplied complete with flexible
cord and plug.
2pt. size, price
3pt. size, price
4pt. size, price
45/-
51/6
55/-
Model 11, “Eureka” Electric
VACUUM CLEANER
£l6/16/
now
it
The “Eureka” Cleaner has long been famous as an outstandingly efficient
household labor saver, being of sound design and sturdy construction.
The latest model, No. 11, offers all the advantages of the “Eureka” in
a surpassing degree.
Anthony Horderns’ offer a limited number of Model 11 Eureka Cleaners
at a saving of £5/18/6. Supplied complete with all attachments.
Price £l6/16/- Reduced to £lO/17/6
See demonstrations in the Electrical Department, Second Floor.
Our “D.P.S ”
Simplifies Buying
Our Deposit-Purchase System
enables you to buy without
the necessity of full immedi-
ate payment. You simply
leave a deposit, pay the
balance as it suits you, and on
completion of payments the
goods will be delivered in the
usual way. No interest is
charged.
Electric Iron, 17/6
The “Uni” Electric Iron. Sturdy
and reliable, although so low
priced. Domestic weight 61b.
Price 17/6
Also the “Hotpoint” Special Iron,
weight 61b. Price 28/6
The “Hecla” Automatic Iron.
Price 39/6
The “Sunbeam” 4 Automatic
Electric Iron. Price 60/-
(Electrical Department—Second Floor.
These goods delivered free City and
Suburbs Only.)
Anthony
Horderns
(THE SENIOR STORE)
’Phone:M24ol
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.RO.


ENERGY AND HIGH SPIRITS
-WITH ENO!
*
'//
£
I
1
GOOD health turns life
into a fine exhilarating
game! Good health gets
you up each morning to a
world of laughter and advent-
ure. No wonder then that Eno
has always been associated with
happiness and high spirits l
Taken first thing every morn-
ing just a dash in a glass of
water—Eno’s “Fruit Salt”
retains enough fluid in the
food canal to dismiss the waste
and poisons from your system,
safely, naturally and thorough-
ly. It keeps the blood flowing
freely and vigorously through
your body.
That is why, for generations,
the morning glass of Eno has
been a golden rule of healthy
living among sensible people
all over the world. Not
simply because it is such a
glorious sparkling drink in it-
self, but because it leads to a
fuller enjoyment of every
minute of your daily life.,
c&hc •words Sno and ef< sfruil Said*
are registered trade marks.
Sales exigents:
‘Rshe i> British c 3. fflitchie
& Go. £td., Sydney, £N‘.S. c lsD.
NO'S
FRUVY SMI
I
i
m
i
i
the: money you save
MAY SAVE YOU
Your regular savings may only be small, but they will
grow into a reserve fund against unexpected demands
or serious emergencies.
Money in this Bank will enable you to face the future
with greater confidence and to grasp opportunities for
improving your position.
4 per cent, interest paid on every £ up to £lOOO.
Personal, Joint, Trust, Children’s and Lay-by Accounts
Opened.
1/- WILL OPEN AN ACCOUNT.
192 Branches, 642 Agencies. No Agencies at Post Offices.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK
OF N.S.W.
A CARNIVAL FOR ALL SYDNEY!
ROSE DAY
OCTOBER 3
AT MARTIN PLACE, CUSTOMS HOUSE
SQUARE AND MACQUARIE PLACE.
You are asked to be generous on October 3!
Collections will be made and badges will be sold
throughout the city and in all suburban centres
—chocolate-wheel and novelty stores have more
magnificent gifts than ever—music will be heard
all day—for the 1930 ROSE DAY MUST BE
A RECORD!
YOUR support is requested— not necessarily to
GIVE, but to visit the Rose Day centres for the
amount of diversion which is being planned for
you.
Note the date, October 3, and make for one of
the three carnival centres to do YOUR bit for
the State’s charity appeal.


For the first time in years!
Buys a
David Jones’ quality
READY TO-WEAR
BUSINESS SUIT
To meet the lowered spending power of the
Australian community / David Jones’ have, by
better methods in their organisation and better
methods in manufacturing, established better
values and lower prices! Here is an in-
stance in these 77/6 ready to-wear Business
Suits. Made from good quality all - wool
Worsteds and embodying David Jones’ usual
high - grade workmanship styled on the
latest lines fraultless in fit better value
than for years past, owing to improved manu-
facturing methods at lower costs now, 77/6
tailoring ddept., ENew Store and §eorge Street
DAVID JONES’
LEAD THE TREND TO LOWER PRICES
an under-populated country for a neighbor,
so there is no need for Australia to make
special efforts on her behalf. Italy is in
the same position. India is a pretty hope-
less proposition. A new planet is needed to
satisfy her requirements. The Javanese
have enormous under-populated islands
handy, all under Dutch management, yet
they refuse to go and pioneer them. The
Japanese have Manchuria, Korea, Sagha-
lien, Formosa and one of their own islands
calling for population, and calling vainly.
The conclusion to be drawn from Wilkin-
son’s comprehensive analysis is that the
White Australia policy is justified both
from the Australian angle and from the
international viewpoint. Whether it will be
so regarded by the statesmen of over-
crowded countries is another question. M.
Privat-Deschanel, author of “Oceania,” a
French study of the same problem, calls it
“a dangerous policy.” Australia can con-
tinue to enjoy her “standard of living” so
long as she earns it. Economic laws have
no boundaries.
F. S.
Patronising A. L. Gordon?
James Devaney, in a sound and scholarly
article (R.P. 27/8/’3O), puts me in an
awkward corner; because, while starting out
to challenge my innocent remark that
“Gordon was essentially a writer of echoes,
Swinburnian and other,” he carries on with
comments and suggestions that have my
hearty agreement.
He handsomely adds Browning and Byron
to Swinburne, mentions that others have
suggested Goethe, and even includes that
obvious “irritating habit of introducing
scraps and tags of foreign languages”—
Greek and Latin, of course, ability to quote
from these being the main test of gentle-
manly education in England up to Gordon’s
time.
Therefore the answer to Mr. Devaney’s
question, whether my innocent remark about
“echoes” is “fair or true,” must be, I sug-
gest, “Yes, obviously, admittedly.” His
immediately following question, “Are we
not inclined to be a little too highbrow
about Gordon?” logically seems directed
to my address; if it is, the hearty reply is
“Not guilty; I revel in Gordon”—whatever
We (taken as this generation in general)
majr do.
Here comes the crux of the matter (Mr.
Devaney again); “More than most poets,
he wrote of the life he actually lived....
You cannot dismiss him as ‘essentially a
writer of echoes.’ ” To which I reply, like
the little girl in the story, “He did and I
didn’t.” “Essentially” is the word which my
kindly critic has overlooked, and “dismiss-
ing” is his own invention.
For where did we start? Oscar Wilde had
said that Australia “spoiled” Gordon, that
“had he stayed at home he would have done
much better work.” I claimed that the
exact opposite is the truth; that, Being
essentially—that is, naturally' and at heart
—a writer of echoes, he would, if he had
stayed in England, be vaguely remembered
now as a minor poet; whereas “Australia
did two big things for him. It gave him
a prominent place, through the comparative
absence of local competition; and—more
important, of course, from the artistic point
of view—it put a new note into his work.”
That is, instead of Judaeus Apelles, and
Gwendoline the Cavalier’s lady, we got the
pursuit of bushrangers—which was actual
life, not a moving-picture stunt, in Gordon’s
day; or the galloping with news of a wreck
that is still remembered in the Mount Gam-
bier district. Even his most determined
and obvious Swinburnian imitation deals
with our own September wattle-gold. “More
than most poets, he -wrote of the life he
actually lived,” says Mr. Devaney. Drop
in the qualifying clause “after he came to
Australia”—and it was the whole gist of
my former note, now challenged—and we
are in complete agreement.
S. TALBOT SMITH.
Leave the Abo. Alone
As one who does know something of abo.
psychology, I should like to advise the
numerous well-intentioned missionaries to
let Binghi alone. The history of evangelism
among the Australian blacks is a rather
ludicrous tale of failure, the natives being
left worse off than before the few enthusi-
asts came to introduce prayers, pants and
penalties.
Just issued from the press is Rev. E. R.
Gribble’s “Forty Years with the Aborigines.”
Here was a Christ-like missioner with the
heart of a lion and the best of intentions,
but what good, on his own showing, did
his lifetime among savage tribes effect? We
read, for instance, how on the far north-
west Forrest River mission, after years of
labor which consisted of teaching the
myalls certain trades of the white man,
the rev. missioner had to capture some of
his “boys” for spearing the mission cattle,
march them as prisoners to Wyndham, and
get them sentences of up to two years in
Broome gaol. That is perhaps typical of
what the missions mean to the Stone Age
abo.
Give the remnants plenty of room, even
though it be desert country; leave them
alone there, keep out undesirable whites,
from the missionary down to the lecherous
Afghan ex-camel driver, and let Binghi go
out to extinction in peace; He can no more
take to our much divided Christianity than
he can to our complex civilisation.
POLYCARP.
Is O’Reilly Right?
Creswell O’Reilly’s ban on the film of
“Young Woodley,” though the play was
seen throughout Australia, has this justi-
fication. Every European country proceeds
on the assumption that films are more
erotically stimulating than stage represen-
tations. In Paris the showing of an im-
proper film, privately or publicly, would be
liable to land the exhibitor in gaol. Yet
when I visited the allegedly gay city a
theatre on Montmartre was staging “La
Revue Nue,” in which many of the ladies
were literally naked, while the dialogue and
songs were indecent to a degree.
The baffling thing about O’Reilly is his
apparent inconsistency. He ruined “Black-
mail” by cutting the comparatively harmless
scene in which Cyril Ritchards grapples
with the girl and gets killed, yet passed
cynically suggestive scenes of the same
type in “Hot for Paris,” and other Mc-
Laglen pictures—some of them accompanied
by filthy innuendoes and obscene language.
My theory is that he unconsciously extenu-
ates the lechery and foul talk that have
characterised most U.S.A. war pictures on
the ground that they are “foreign,” and is
only shocked when a Briton dares to be
depraved. Highly respectable British
tourists often exhibit this complex on the
Continent, where they view with compla-
cency shows that would make them yell
for the police at home.
ROTONDE.
Books Worth Reading
This list has been compiled by a com-
mittee nominated by the Associated Book-
sellers of Australia and Maoriland. It is
printed as a guide to books of merit, though
not necessarily with the Red Page’s endorse-
ment:—
General Literature. —Seventh Heaven, by
Nina Murdoch; By Way of Cape Horn, by
A. J. Villiers; Captain Cook, by Joseph
Carruthers; Glimpses of the Great, by G. S.
Viereck; King Edward and His Court, by
Sir Lionel Gust; The Miracle of Peille, by
J. L. Campbell; Australia, by W. K. Han-
cock ; Forty Years with the Aborigines, by
E. R. Gribble; Patriots’ Progress, by Henry
Williamson.
Novels of Literary Merit. —The Water
Gipsies, by A. P. Herbert; Miss Mole, by E.
11. Young; Europa’s Beast, by Ralph H.
Mottram; Haxby’s Circus, by Katharine
Susannah Prichard; April Pools, by Comp-
ton Mackenzie.
Novels for Popular Reading.— The Be-
loved Physician, by Naomi Jacob; Mistress
of Ceremonies, by Nora K. Strange; The
Vantine Diamonds, by “Seamark”; Sir, She
Said, by Alec Waugh; The Scarab Murder
Case, by S. S. Van Dine; The
Gipsies, by A. P. Herbert; Fire of Youth,
by Margaret Pedler; Tagiti, by Cynthia
Stockley; Haxby’s Circus, by Katharine
Susannah Prichard ; April Fools, by Compton
Mackenzie; Trial by Water, by Hulbert
Footner; Swan House, by Baroness von
Hutton.
A Satchel of Books
Shrimps for Tea, by Josephine Blumenfeltl
(Ileinemann). Twenty-four realistic thumb-
nail sketches. They include some good
examples of the sliort-story craft, though the
author works within limits of character type
and of length which rather preclude any
really telling dramatic achievement.
Give Up Your Lovers, by Louis Golding
(Heinemann), is an indictment of the racial
exclusiveness of Israel. But the case is
overstated. To widen the gulf between the
1 -.vers, Ruth is presented as a convent-
taught, upper-class English girl, while
I’kii’p’s father, Reb Monash, is a slum-
dwelling Russian. To Ruth and her mother
the union means “giving up Christ”; to old
Monash, “quoter of this Midrash and that,
and the utterances of the Sanhedrin,” it
means polluting Philip, and, worse, the
blood of his offspring. Philip is seen less
clearly than his father or than his frightful
brother-in-law whose brain and flesh have
become corrupted by inbreeding, but he is
a notable character for all that. There are
some sympathetic and very beautiful pictures
of convent life.
The Autocracy of Mr. Parham, by H. G.
Wells (Heinemann), resembles a Chester
Belloc, except that it has 10 double-page
caricature-cartoons by Low instead of the
40-odd sketches by Chesterton which add
point to Belloc’s works of irony and imagi-
nation. Wells and Belloc are poles apart
in most things, but they despise the same
people. There is a millionaire in The Auto-
cracy of Mr. Parham (his favorite expres-
sions are “Meantersay” and “Gaw”) who
is own brother spiritually and culturally to
Lord Borstal, of “The Missing Masterpiece,”
and a dozen other illiterate profiteers vby
Belloc. Mr. Parham, who, through his asso-
ciation with Sir Bussy Woodcock, learns
what it feels like to be an English Musso-
lini, is another of those futile Oxford dons
whom Belloc has flayed in novel after novel
during the past quarter of a century. Wells
hates them for their supercilious culture,
Belloc for their supercilious irreligion, and
both make them thoroughly despicable beings.
Social satire apart, the book is mostly made
up of derisive propaganda against dictators,
brass-hats, war and violence generally. It
is packed with wit and humor, and Wells’s
wonderful gift for making the fine shades
of h's characters’ voices audible is in evi-
dence all through it.
♦
J. O’Brien, whose story, “The Candle,”
won Brisbane Authors and Artists’ Associa-
tion’s short-story competition, wrote, under
the nom-de-plume of Vernon Thomas, “The
Meteren Gate,” which was placed among
the highly commended in the First Bulle-
tin Novel Competition. “The Meteren
Gate” was lately published in London.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice ( except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Zwig: Contrast is fine, except that the first
part is heavily overdone. Still, you might place it
somewhere even as it is. ... W.A.C.: Championing the
emu egg as being “sweet as a nut and good for
your gut” highly appreciated by office dys-
peptic .... U.L.: “The Dying Swagman” seems to
have passed out on the way in... .P.F.S.: Depress-
ing humor. .. .C.A.S.: Afraid interest’s limited to the
club.... Convict: Give it up for ten years or so;
and you’ll have to learn that “dull” is a pretty
thick rhyme for “fa 11”.... J.1.A.: Both sunshine
and shadow appear in an artificial light.... Tull
Willie: New excuse for not bringing home any fish?
. ...E.J.K.: That word “wanderlust” has led many
astray... .Absit Invid: Has been submitted three
times already—as an original item !. ... H.Y.:
Hearty welcome to the best Bridge effort to date:—
The bridge, the bridge, the Mighty Bridge
Hath thrown its arms across the Harbor,
Locking them in fond embrace,
Like steely branches in an iron arbor!
The little people look up, look up,
But they cannot understand,
That the work is well-nigh finished,
For the Harbor has been spanned.
. ...N.K.; “Pleas” have to strike an uncommonly
original note to produce anything these days....
J.A.8.H.: “The Swagman” had his moments; the
rest flat.... W.S.A.: Whiskery idea, isn’t it?....
G. J.: No bid for the sixteen vacant allotments in
“The Land of Hope”....Toe Emma: W-pip beer.
. ...N.S.: It halts too much.... Robin: No; but
your fault entirely; the idea’s all right... .5.T.0.:
On that sample, have to advise sticking to the
separator handle.... Beagle: Nothing doing with the
Findon Harriers... .J.A.S.C.: Slight... .Ripponlea:
Let “The Struggle” go on: —
Her heart did palpitate, shiver and thump
As a ship when her screw from the water doth jump.
His face looked one to prejudice a jury;
At length he whispered with consummate fury,
“I’ll teach you to keep th’ House cleaner than you
do;
If you won’t mop th’ Floor, then I’ll mop th’ Floor
with you !”
. ...G.H.: Failed utterly to find anything “very
unusual” about it A.C.D.: At least you’re begin-
ning well—writing of the things you know....
Wyadra: Someone very much like your tramp has
been met before... .D.McF.; Rather well done, but
the thought falls down horribly. . .R.W.: Wasn’t alto-
gether necessary to emphasise the “please destroy.”
. ...Jaybee; A little late... .D.L.: Merit is
the only passport.... Echo: Rather too much so—
of “Banjo”... .H. 8.: “The Hand of Fate” is now
rocking the basket... .W.G.: No cell for “The
Monk”. .. .L.li.-M.: Best part’s the title, “The Bridge
of Size”... .L.N.: Only middling... .XXXX : Not
near the promise the initials held 0ut.... S.K.W.: A
little stilted... .C.S.: No space for moralising....
H. : Unpleasant pen-portrait negatived....
Jerry: Deserve to be paid for it, though the work is
bad enough.... V.L.S.: “Depression.” What’s that?
.... Bellerive: Another exciting instalment: —
AMONG- THE SPECTATORS AT A BUCKJUMPING
CONTEST.
Reckless roughriders and
Lads from Outback
Upon fiery outlaws did
Ride round the track.
As the careering steeds bucked,
And twirled wildly around,
Tossed were game riders
And hurled to the ground.
The bold again ventured,
And the wise give it best,
There’s hairbreath escapes
At a buckjumping contest.
(Next wet k: “Feats on a Trapeze.”)
. ...G.C.: Salvation of Samuel hardly worth the
effort... .T.S.: “Boomerang” on the home curve....
1.5. M.: By no means badly done; but try a paper
that goes in for that sort of thing... .C.S.G.: Out
of date. .. .D.L.: “Told in the Cafe” won’t be
retold here. ~ . J.E.S.: Still further away. ... J.P.:
Construction weak.. . .F.H.McO.: Old stuff... .
E.C.K.: Regret no space. .. .P.S.: Blithers left
blithering... .A.E.F.: Try it as a novelette; too
long for a short story and not long enough for a
serial. .. .W.E.C.: No band for the circus... .A.M.:
If true then stranger than fiction. .. .1.N.D.: Sym-
pathetically written but not suitable... .AV.R.:
“Tropical color” too tropical. .. . J.P.R.: Don’t doubt
its accuracy but no place for it... .D.F.L.: “Syn-
thetic Love” doesn’t stand analysis.... H. O’D.
Kelly: Takes too much whisky to make it probable.
. ...G.D.M.: The statistics you quote from put down
Australia’s war bill at £687,366,237 at June, 1928,
and they show it still rising at the rate of 30 millions
a year for interest, etc. Other authorities hold that
the war and the actual war expenditure must be
assumed to end some day, for otherwise the trouble
with Napoleon I. would be still in progress, the
interest bill keeping it alive. *ln 1924 it was reckoned
that Canada’s bill for real war was 763 millions,
Australia’s 477 millions, and Maoriland’s 234 mil-
lions. That was a good enough place to stop at,
though all the figures could go on indefinitely....
5.8.: No space for your optimistic verses. Read
them to your creditors; it might make them over-
sleep on settling day.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.G.W.: The horses or dingoes or ‘ what-
ever they are in the foreground seem to have strayed
out of an Old Master. .. .0.H.8.: Afraid the basket
would get it, even if you inlaid it with g01d....
G.McA.: Appreciate your candor in describing your
effort as a “dried-up duckpond”... .C.1.C.: Joke’s
the best part, and it’s weak enough. .. .D.D.: Noth-
ing thrilling in the bridge idea. . . .Y.R.11.: Golfing
item dropped into the w-p. bunker....K.L.: Mild
dash of Percival and water... .V.H.W.: All sent out.
.... Jade: No interest in the conversation of onions.


m
.
;.
■M|'
WStKKmc‘- : :- “V :
■
1
1
In
f«M—
-11
\i, ■.;
■
Hi
i£\ |
I
HE
p* 111111 l
■
11
5 ■ _,...
r
■
mm
HH
Hi
llftt
i
■ ■ Hi
■
MiMiiiiiiiiniini
■III
i
■ I
mm
I
■n
MI
■
W
■i
a
■
H
isi
.■■'"■wa
WM
l
:
■ii
i ■
&V
I
■
■
■
'
1
H
»,
®'< «liP
■I ■
:
f§H-|H|
■1
19.iy ■ .
■HHd ' • .
v:
Vpv. 1
■®>
®.V'
BBMH i
wHi
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD#


The Bulletin
Vol. 51.—N0. 2642.
October 1, 1930.
THE MAN WHO PAYS THE FARES.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 211/ George Street, Sydney;
Box 252111 B; >Phone 87971.
Victoria: 11/ r 2O Flinders Street, Melbourne,
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
VVestralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : SC Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to ant address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 Jjs. ; G months, 12s. 6d.:
3 months, 7s.
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.,
<i months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d. Elsewhere: sd.
“BOND OR FREE?”
W. M. Hughes, the ex-Prime Minister—in
fact, the exest-Prime Minister any country
ever had—has cast a pamphlet upon the
waters in the expectation, no doubt, that it
will return after many days bringing a
shoal of Labor votes with it. Apart from
that, its purpose is not very clear, although
above the crashing chords and reverberating
thunders we hear Mr. Hughes asking Aus-
tralia whether it wants to be bond or free.
Mr. Hughes himself seems to have no doubt
about which it should prefer. Others, how-
ever, may. For this freedom is not all it
is cracked up to be. Most of us have
willingly surrendered more or less of it in
return for rights and privileges of one sort
and another. Civilisation indeed is based
upon two things, among others—the sur-
render of liberty by the individual and the
strict performance of the conditions attached
to it.
But even if freedom were a wholly good
thing it would be too late in the day to
make the choice which Mr. Hughes suggests.
For Mr. Hughes himself and the other poli-
ticians chose for us long ago. In' order to
provide us with that public ownership of
utilities which has been in the Labor plat-
form for over forty years, and which every
other party has gradually accepted, they
have loaded us with bonds—over one
thousand one hundred millions of them.
With the cash which we got in return for
the bonds we have built ourselves rail-
ways, tramways, postal and telegraph ser-
vices, roads, harbors, docks and bridges;
have bought ourselves cattle stations, abat-
toirs, quarries, fish-shops and pubs. And
to a list already infinitely long Mr. Hughes
added a fleet of trading ships.
Public and private obligations are in
essence the same. When a bank —the
Savings Bank, for instance —takes our
deposits its freedom is at once limited. It
may do only such things as will permit
and enable it to pay the interest agreed
upon and return the principal at the
appointed date. When a man borrows
money to buy or build a house he is no
longer entirely free. He may not loaf to
his heart’s content or spend all that he
pleases on himself. His liberty is surren-
dered to this extent: he must so arrange
his life that he can pay the interest and
instalments of principal as they fall due.
So with Australia. Having sought the
money and gladly accepted it, its freedom
is now strictly limited; it must order its
life in such a way that it can pay the
interest and instalments of principal as
they fall due. To put it to Australia that
it can now choose whether it; will be bond
or free is therefore entirely misleading and
characteristically mischievous.
No doubt there is a way to escape all
this, and that is the dishonest way of
repudiation. Of course Mr. Hughes does
not believe in repudiation; with all his
eccentricities there need be no doubt about,
that. But unfortunately he may unwittingly
put ideas into the heads of men who are
not honest enough even to be frank repudi-
ationists. It may, for instance, be sufficient
to suggest to such men that they are, and
should be, quite free to order their lives
and the lives of their fellows as they please.
The frank repudiationist says: “I can have
a good time if I don’t pay, so I won’t
pay!” The other, the political humbug,
says: “Humanity and civilisation demand
that we maintain our present rates of pay
and conditions of labor, along with our
present standards of living. We may not
be able to pay our just debts, but that,
you will see, is humanity’s and civilisation’s
fault, not oui’s.” Surely it is time we re-
fused to lend ourselves to the dishonesty of
the political adventurer. It is he who more
than any other is responsible for our finan-
cial and industrial distress. It is he who is
mainly responsible for our crushing burden
of debt, because it was he who discovered
that the easiest way to get votes was to
buy them with other people’s money.
And supposing the workers of New South
Wales are persuaded to give such political
adventurers the chance they ask for, what
must the result be? It is quite possible
that the Australian holders of our Govern-
ment bonds could be paid their interest.
The taxpayer could be bled and still further
bled for the purpose. But one half of our
total debt we owe to people overseas. No
amount of taxation will pay our interest
debt to these holders. What one large
section of the community does not seem
yet to realise is that we have contracted to
pay our overseas interest in gold, and no
amount of paper tax-money will pay a
pound of it. We, not having the gold, must
export the goods that will sell for gold;
and to find a sale we must compete in
price with the products of all the world
on the same market. Had the prices of
the last few years been maintained we
might have kept up our recent costs of
production and still found a market. With
falls in prices averaging about 40 per cent.,
goods at the old costs could not possibly
find buyers. This means, in plain words,
that those who advocate the maintenance
ot government and other costs are as surely
repudiationists as the maddest adherents of
Moscow. If these gentlemen could win any-
thing for the workers by this policy it could
be better understood. But they can hope
for nothing.
The prosperity of the last few years prior
to 1930 was built upon heavy overseas
borrowings. Once we bilk our creditors,
our foreign borrowing is at an end. We
shall therefore be then in the same con-
dition as we _ are to-day. And to make a
permanency of our deplorable condition
seems a poor thing to aim at and scarcely
worth while being a rogue for.
WHAT’S WRONG WITH THE WORLD?
Over two million people are unemployed
in Britain, and the winter will see three
millions on the dole. In Germany the
figures are about the same; the U.S.A.
report is that five millions are workless;
Argentina has had its revolution based on
industrial distress; the finances of Brazil
are almost as disorganised as those of Aus-
tralia; quite one-half of the factories of
Japan are declared to be idle. What is
the matter with the world?
No doubt there are contributory and
secondary causes. Thus in our own case
furious foreign borrowings have made a
heavy draft upon our stocks of gold to
keep the interest paid. But where a condi-
tion is so almost world-wide it seems cer-
tain that there must be one large general
cause.
Everywhere over-production is reported.
But is there actual over-production in a
general way? As we have seen, there must
be well over 12 millions out of employ-
ment, and therefore not very active con-
sumers. There no doubt are many millions
more who are not consuming up to their
full capacity. Can the world be said to
be over-producing in such circumstances?
With a simple system of barter, and men
working at the right jobs, there could be
only the most temporary over-production.
But we have left the age of simple barter
far behind. We have organised production
on a colossal scale. Following that, we
have organised consumption also, through
advertising and other selling agencies. As
commerce, and especially international com-
merce, has grown we have developed the
practice of holding large stocks of products
in excess of immediate ordinary require-
ments. With trade proceeding smoothly
this accumulation would have no ill effects.
But frequently it happens that there is,
from some cause or other, a sharp fall in
the price of a stored commodity. The
immediate effect is a slower demand: no-
body wants to buy to-day at 20s. what he
may get to-morrow for 18s. Wholesalers
and retailers alike reduce their stocks.
Orders on the manufacturer are insufficient
to keep the works going, and employees are
discharged.
But worse than that may happen. After
the days of simple barter, and especially
when foreign trade was developed, the need
was felt for some medium of small volume
and great value which could be accepted
in exchange for any commodity and later
sold in exchange for a third commodity.
First, gold and silver, and then gold by
itself, proved to be convenient; thus what
is known as the gold standard was estab-
lished. A fixed price for the metal was
agreed upon by the great nations. But,
though the price is fixed unvaryingly, its
purchasing power is no more fixed than
that of any other commodify. Gold is
governed by the law of supply and de-
mand, like every other commercial pro-
duct; the only difference is that when gold
with its fixed price is cheap, the effect is
shown, not by gold itself, but by all other
commodities. When it is cheap, more than
usual of it is paid for other things; in
other words, other things are dear. On
the other hand, dear gold means that other
commodities are cheap.
Now if for any reason gold becomes dear,
and especially if it becomes dear quickly,
it is obvious that the accumulations of
stocks mentioned just now will fall quickly
in price. We saw what the result would
be if only one commodity was thus affected;
with the fall occurring over almost the
entire range of industry, the consequent
unemployment is liable to be enormous.
For a time varied measures are taken to
stay the market’s slide. But for the most
part these defeat one another. Thus while
one factory will speed up in order to in-
crease its turnover, and so reduce its costs,
another will slow down to give the market
time to absorb its stocks. And while the
U.S.A. Department of Agriculture is call-
ing upon American farmers to grow less
wheat, Australian departments have been
calling upon our farmers to grow more.
Restrictive schemes and cartels help where
it is possible to apply them; but there can
be no general relief till the world has not
only absorbed the stocks of produce at the
old prices, but accommodated itself to a
new price level. This latter is the process
through which the world is now passing.
In effect, the meaning of it all is that
gold is no longer capable of doing its work
single-handed. As we have said, it is sub-
ject to the law of supply and demand. Now,
variations in either supply or demand did
not matter so very greatly so long as they
were not sudden and violent, and especially
before the world got the habit of accumu-
lating large stocks of anything. But in
these later days the variations have been
so energetic that in 20 years the price level
of all commodities has gone from below
one thousand to far beyond two thousand
and back again to some point about mid-
way between the two. The result has been
a colossal boom, followed by a catastrophic
collapse. Where as in our own case we
have been foolish enough to borrow heavily
from overseas, misled by boom conditions,
the difficulties in the way of recovery are
vastly increased. There is, however, no
short cut to recovery for anyone. Slow
but complete readjustment is the only way.
In the last previous period of world dis-
tress, due to the eccentricities of gold—4o
years ago and thereabouts—it was thought
that silver might again be put into double
harness with gold. But there have been such
tremendous fluctuations in the world’s out-
put of silver that it is doubtful whether a
fixed ratio could have been preserved. Yet
the world’s industrial vicissitudes will
almost certainly grow more horrifying un-
less the nations do something to their
monetaiy standard. Probably there is no
remedy to which some objections cannot
be taken; the best the economists of the
world can do is to seek the one with the
fewest and least. It may be that an
entirely new type of composite standard
could be evolved—one in which, for
example, gold, silver, wheat, wool and
copper might be harnessed together, the
ratio between them fixed as irrevocably
as any agreement can be.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES . . 2, 5
MARY GILMORE’S VERSES 2
IS O’REILLY RIGHT? 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
“BOND OR FREE?” 8
WHAT’S WRONG WITH THE WORLD? .. 8
VAN TROMP & CO 8
THE CHEAP-JACK OF AUBURN . . . . 9
FARM-LABOR SETTLEMENTS !)
FEDERAL “CONTROL” OF STATE RAIL-
WAYS 9
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 9
POLITICAL POINTS (with cartoonlets by Frith) 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. . . 11, 12
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 13
PERSONAL (with four caricatures) .. . . 14
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 15
WOOL AND WHEAT PRICES . . . . . . 15
A NEGLECTED INDUSTRY 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. . . 16
“MIGET GOLF” '(with Frith putting) .. 16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 17, 18
MYERS, MELBOURNE 17
PITT, SON & BADGERY 17
HUME PIPE 17
STRAND AND PITT-STREET PROPERTIES.. 17
AUS. ESTATES AND MORTGAGE . . . . 17
B. H. SOUTH 18
INVESTMENT QUESTIONS ANSWERED . . 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 20, 21
MAN ON THE LAND 22, 25
SHEEP ON THE DAIRY FARM . . . . 22
A LESSON FROM THE DANES . . . . 22
FARM QUESTIONS ANSWERED . . . . 25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT 26
SMOKE-OH (with drawings) . . . . . . 28
POVERTY POINT 31
THE PALETTE 31
THE INKY WAY 31
SHADOW SHOWS 33
SPORTING (illustrated) 35, 36
RACING AT lIAWKESBURY 35
MOONEE VALLEY RACES 35
TIPS FOR RANDWICK . . ... . . . . 35
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 39
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 41
NEW SERIAL—
“Thirty Pieces of Silver,”
By Montague Grover . . . . . . 42, 43, 45
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 44
AS WE SAID BEFORE (with drawings by Phil
May and “Hop”) .. . . . . .. 47
A COMPLETE STORY—
“AUSTRALIANS ALWAYS COME HOME”-
By Margaret Fane and Hilary Lofting. . 49, 50
VERSE —By Roderic Quinn and Dulcie 1 learner.. 50
NEXT WEEK.
WHY POLITICS ARE IN THE GUTTER.—An attempt to show that most of our financial troubles
are due to the degradation of politics and politicians.
ARE ALL THE CARDS ON THE TABLE ?—A further inquiry into our economic
problems and proposals.
“HUMAN GOLD,’’ a fine Westralian mining story.
VAN TROMP AND CO.
The paying of a courtesy call on Australia
by a Dutch naval squadron from Java is
a reminder that Van Tromp and Co. is still
a going concern, after 400 years of vicissi-
tude. The Dutch navy has much improved
of late. I remember in pre-war days when
a cruiser called at a port in Java en route
to the island of Bali to prevent the widows
of a rajah getting themselves burned at his
funeral ceremony. The expeditionary force
came ashore—Swiss, Germans, Swedes, anjr
race but Dutchmen. They were the Dutch
foreign legion—not as famous as the
French one, but equally interesting. Each
romantic P. C. Wren hero trailed a bare-
foot native “wife” behind him—or, rather,
one in four did, that being the war-time
footing; the peace-time ration was one
“wife” per soldier.
The navy was similarly constituted.
Nevertheless, it sufficed to keep a shambling
brown empire in order, except the sector
in Sumatra where that vested military in-
terest euphemistically known as “the War
against Atcheen” has been flourishing for
upwards of two generations. But when the
British began building the base at Singa-
pore sundry Dutch patriots saw in it a
threat to Holland’s supremacy. It was felt
that the proud nation whose ships had once
singed a Stuart’s whiskers within sound of
Bow Bells could not hold its empire merely
on sufferance, and the navy and army were
reconditioned. Even so, of course, the Dutch
armed forces in the Pacific have no sig-
nificance. Small nations hold their empires
not through their strength, but through
their weakness. The jealousies of the Great
Powers effectually maintain the status quo
for the little ones.
Every Dutchman’s heart swells at the
name of Java. It is a magnificent pos-
session, and its magnificence is something
that advocates of a white and British
Australia ought to be thankful for. It
was because its potential value was so
patent that the early Dutch voyagers
omitted to annex Australia. For them the
western coast of the new continent was
merely a signal to haul close to the wind
and head northward. Sometimes they fell
in with it at night-time, and wives became
widows in Amsterdam, though the light hair
and blue eyes of some of the Westralian
aboriginals suggest that the absence of color
prejudice is an old characteristic of the
Netherlander.
The present importance of the Dutch
East Indies is as nothing to their future
potentialities, if the criterion of importance
is heads of population and trade statistics.
Although Java contains 730 people fo the
square mile, the East Indies as a whole
form one of the world’s most thinly-popu-
lated areas. Borneo is bigger than Ger-
many, the Celebes equal to Austria and
Hungary, Sumatra as large as Great
Britain and as rich in resources as Java.
All are nearly empty. An Australian
economist has estimated that these colonies
can support 173 millions, even with Java
stationary and New Guinea unexploited.
That the Dutch will realise this heroic ob-
jective, if anybody can, is indicated by their
achievements in Java. No imperial nation
ever set out so coolly to turn out men and
women as if they were so many pots and
pans from a factory. Realising that while
the native remained contented with his lot
he would not hanker after foreign improve-
ments they set deliberately to work to make
that lot uncomfortable. They clapped
taxes on him and he had to work tp pay
them. They graciously permitted him to
pay them in crops which were marketable
in Europe. One of their methods was to
order every village in a district to plant
1000 coffee-trees per family, one-fifth of
the crop to be given to the Government
and the remaining four-fifths sold to it at
its own figure. Another was to lay out the
island in main roads and compel each vil-
lage to build its section to the next village,
the local chief being hanged if his portion
were not completed up to schedule. Ameri-
can motor-cars now speed over the result,
which was founded on the bones of a large
proportion of the labor force.
Eventually the “Kultur” system reached
its logical conclusion. The natives pro-
duced so much exportable food that not
enough was left to fill their bellies; so free
labor was instituted. With free labor came
free education, to make the laborer more
efficient. The Dutch avoided the foolish
error of trying to make the native into a
second-hand Dutchman. They encouraged
him to write in his own tongue, read his
own literature, take pride in his own cus-
toms, arts and crafts, and study his own his-
tory—without undue emphasis on the Dutch
part thereof. Politically the system has been
partially successful. The Javanese does not
show quite the same aptitude for throwing
bombs at his uplifter as his Hindu brother,
though he is slowly tending in that direc-
tion. From a statistical point of view the
results have been amazing. The population
of Java has increased from 4i millions to
38 millions in a little over a century, and
an annual increment of half a million is
in prospect.
The future of the islands is of paramount,
importance to Australia. They have had
an Indian Buddhist, an Arab Mohammedan


and a Dutch Christian invasion. Now they
are in process of being absorbed by Chinese
atheists under nominal Dutch sovereignty.
The Celestial population is nearly a million,
and its wealth and influence are out of all
proportion to its numbers. The Eurasians
form another powerful element. Self-
government is gradually being granted to
the islands. The struggle for control of the
crescent horde of colored helots will be be-
tween Chinese and Eurasian oligarchs, with
the Dutch probably supporting the native
princes, as the British do in Hindustan.
Dutch statesmen recognise that Holland
will be left as arbiter in the argument only
so long as her administration satisfies the
awakening international conscience, and the
great foreign commercial interests, such as
oil and rubber. No easy job, even for a
race of supermen.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Cheap-jack of Auburn.
peril those savings. It will be a large price
to pay for the personal triumph of Mr.
Lang.
♦
Selling a House.
A guess at how the political house-agent
would sell a six-roomed cottage:—
This is an opportunity quite unique in the
history of this fair State of New South Wales.
Through the manipulations of the Money
Power and the machinations of a dastardly
clique, this magnificent property is for sale.
It could not suit you better if it had been
built for you. There is no other agent who
will give you a fair deal. Scabbin, down
the street, who calls himself an agent—he
will try to sell you a house. Well, buy it
if you like; but I promise you you will be
lucky if the title-deeds are not forged.
Don’t tell me you don’t want a house.
Listen carefully to this. I know somebody
who will be prepared to pay twice as much
for that house as I am offering it to you
for. All he is waiting for is the death of
his uncle. Don’t make any mistake about
that—uncle will die pretty soon. Scabbin
will benefit by his death, too, so you can
leave that to Scabbin. Fifteen of Scabbin’s
rich relatives have come to a sudden end,
to my knowledge.
You haven’t got the money? Don’t let
that trouble you. *Why, in April, 1927,
Doggo Delaney came to me and says: “Well,
I was going to buy Sam Hordern’s place
up at Darling Point; but it’s no go—l’m
stonkered. Can’t raise a bean. The Money
Power has got me set.” What did I do?
I called in all the bank managers and put
it to them that Doggo was stonkered.
Couldn’t they help him? They told me they
couldn’t do a thing. But I had faith in my
State. I called round at Billo Brophy’s
two-up school Saturday night. I put it up
to them there. I asked for 14 unillion
pounds. What did I get? Fifteen millions
four hundred and sixty-seven thousand
pounds eleven shillings. That was my
answer to the moneyed interests that had
been trying to get Doggo into their clutches.
The back of this place is as good as the
front. There never was a place with so
many conveniences. Water-taps and every-
thing. That shed there is for the fowls..,
It is provided with special nests. Once a
fowl is in one of those nests she can please
herself whether she lays eggs or diamonds.
Half the diamonds at Tattersall’s Club or
at the Stadium any wrestling night come
from this fowlhouse. It is the only one of
its sort in our fair State of New South
Wales. But mark you this. There is a
goanna farm run by a man named Darnrot
where these interesting reptiles are trained
The cheap-jack can get rid of his brumma-
gem sometimes, no matter how worthless it
may be. Mr. Lang, who delivered his
policy speech last week, had every en-
couragement to be audacious. Mr. Theo-
dore, who occupied the same stall in the
same market 12 months ago, had offered
the most brazen imitations of the real
Mackay, and had got away with it. He
had undertaken if his party was elected to
have the coalminers back at work within a
fortnight without suffering any loss of pay.
His party was elected, the fortnight passed,
and not a thing happened. By degrees it
transpired that this and almost every other
promise made by Mr. Theodore was utterly
valueless. But Mr. Theodore was where he
wanted to be, and what else mattered?
Thus encouraged, Mr. Lang takes the
other huckster’s place and produces the
same glittering string of promises. Than
these there are no cheaper things in the
world. Any man can promise the stars in
return for that bent sixpence about which
Mr. Lang talked so touchingly. The only
catch in the transaction is that no delivery
can be made of either moon or stars. And
the things that the political cheap-jack of
Auburn offers in return for place and pay
are quite as impossible of delivery. But
does that matter to Mr. Lang any more
than the same thing mattered to Mr.
Theodore?
It does, however, matter a great deal to
the workers of New South Wales. The
position is quite clear, the facts quite
simple. Soon after reaching office a little
short of 12 months ago the Labor Govern-
ment led by Mr. Scullin found itself in
very serious difficulties, owing chiefly to a
heavy fall in the prices of those commodi-
ties which Australia markets abroad.
Australia had been importing heavily and
had placed large orders in Europe and
America. Moreover, it had to pay interest
on over 600 millions of overseas loans
raised to provide us with railways and other
things required by the Labor platform.
Now the bills for these goods and for this
interest must be met in gold. Paper
money is valueless for the purpose. If it
were not, any country could discharge its
debt to any other country within 24 hours
by the simple process of printing a few more
notes. Faced with this problem the Federal
Labor Government was driven to prohibit
many imports and to seize the entire stock
of gold in Australia; but even that was
soon found to be insufficient. The alarm
of our creditors abroad became greater. The
Commonwealth Bank, which is owned en-
tirely by the people of Australia, grew un-
easy. Unless the alarm in London was
quietened and confidence restored, it
plainly foresaw a financial crash in
Australia. It therefore recommended
to the Federal Labor Government that
the Bank of England should be asked
to send representatives to confer and
advise. It is not true that the Bank of
England suggested this conference. The
Commonwealth Bank suggested it, that
bank’s chief concern being the safeguarding,
not of the investments of foreign capital,
but of the deposits of millions of Austra-
lian working men and women. And it was
because these were at stake that the Federal
Labor Government acquiesced.
Mr. Lang would have the workers of New
South Wales to believe (at any rate until
after the election) that all the concern is for
the foreign moneylender. But it was not
concern for the foreign moneylender which
induced the Labor Prime Minister of Aus-
tralia and the Labor Premiers of Victoria
and South Australia to agree to the resolu-
tions of the Melbourne conference which
Mr. Lang declares he will repudiate. They
knew things which Mr. Lang could not pos-
sibly know; they realise that there are dan-
gers of which Mr. Lang appears to be bliss-
fully ignorant.
The question for the workers of New
South Wales is whether they will follow the
advice of the Labor Prime Minister, of his
Treasurer the former Labor Premier of
Tasmania, and of the Labor Premiers of
Victoria and South Australia, who have had
the advantage of getting behind the scenes,
or that of Mr. Lang alone, who has had no
such advantage. It is they and not Mr.
Lang who will suffer if any mistake is made.
Many of them have the savings of
a lifetime deposited with the savings banks
and similar institutions. A false step now
not only may, but most certainly will, im-
to collect the eggs
for chicken-farmers.
Now, on April 1,
1926, Darnrot was
playing golf, and at
the 17th hole he
overtook Scabbin and
was seen to address
him. What more
likely, I ask you,
than that they dis-
cussed goannas, and
that Darnrot told
Scabbin about his
trained flock of
them? Next (and I
want you to note
these dates care-
fully), on the even-
ing of April 2 a
goanna was missing
from Darnrot’s farm.
On the morning of
April 3 there was
not a diamond in any
of those nests. That
afternoon Be abhin
was seen in front of
his office smoking a
cigar! Could there
be a more perfect
chain of proof ?
Scabbin stands re-
vealed before the
world as a man so
utterly depraved, so
lost to all sense of
shame, that he will
disregard even the
sacred confidences of
the golf course.
Well, if you don’t
buy it, let me warn
you (and I say this
with a full sense of
responsibility) that
the time will come
when the Money
Power will crush the
noble ambition of
every man to have a
roof-tree over his
head. The tentacles
of the Octopus are
long and powerful.
And the highways
and bywrnys of the
world are strewn
with the bones of
countless victims.
You can escape all
this, my friend, by
putting your mark
on this little slip of
paper and earning
for your humble ser-
vant another faL
commission.
♦
Farm-labor
Settlements.
Dear Bulletin, —
After the financial
crash of the early
’nineties Australia
had an army of un-
employed which it
was at its wits’ end
to maintain. It
looked abroad for
sug g e stions, and
found the most
hopeful one in the
farm-labor settle-
ments of Germany.
These were accordingly introduced, and did
something to relieve the situation. They
were not wholly self-supporting, but went
a good way towards it. They could do
the same to-day. Comparatively handy to
every large tentre of population there are
areas of land sufficiently fertile to produce
much of the food which the workers need.
The underlying idea was that these
settlements should be merely havens of re-
fuge for homeless workers, and the pay
allowed them was not sufficiently attractive
to hold them when any regular employ-
ment offered. .
Before our present trouble is over we
may find it extremely difficult to provide
unemplo^yedf io They ought^o^be^provided
with facilities for at least partly supporting
themselves, and the sooner we get to work
to create such settlements the larger that
part will be. Settlers in the country who
have been smitten by bad seasons and other
adverse circumstances know at what small
expense they can maintain themselves
through very lean periods.—Yours, etc.,
p X.
♦
Federal “Control” of State Railways,
.
Federal arbitration, as finally amended by
the Labor Ministry, has become an un-
wieldy and tangled octopus that produces
little save cost*.
Lately the Railway Commissioners of
four States, all in great money trouble,
applied to three Federal arbitration Judges
for the right to manage their bankrupt
concerns without Federal interference,
(One of the Judges has been dealing with
State railway cases for two years; he took
over part of this work from another Judge,
now retired, who had been dealing with
them for five years.) There was a whole
day’s argument over the contention of the
unions that the Federal Government
could take a matter of this sort out of the
hands of the Federal Judges, and thus
make them wholly superfluous, by trans-
ferring the dispute to “conciliation” (or
aggravation) committees, and that the
Federal Labor Ministiy had appointed a
flock of “conciliation” committees, presum-
ably for the better satisfaction of the
unions.
Fierce debate ensued as to whether
the committees had been properly
appointed, and whether they had met, or
intended to meet, or U ve^ e b ° U X XJ? • ’
or whether they might hang around do 0
nothing and prevent the Court doing any-
thing. Argument also raged as to the ait-
ference between setting aside an award,
w hich is Tweedledum, and varying an
awar d, which is Tweedledee. A lot more
time was occupied in discussing whether
tbe Tas. Government might intervene in
tbe case as owner of the Tas. railways (re-
fuse(j)j an d whether the Commonwealth
Q over nment might be joined in the pro-
ceedings as author of the legislation
: d : f or “conciliation” committees
Xanted)
The best S?
arrive at was t h decide some!
that it might, 01 might not,, doc e _
thing after it heard the case and t | ,
would feel relieved if the conciliation
committees really got to work and furnished
it with an excuse for not hearing tlm case,
Then .it proceeded to hear spasms ol evi-
dence, with further long blasts of argument
in between. One of the witnesses was
Clapp, the Vic. Chief Commissioner, who
bluntly announced that his Govern-
ment was “broke.” Clapp examined
and cross-examined, the Court knocked
off for a week to let tne co -
ciliation” committees have then tu ,
and to start on a related case that of the
metal trades, itself. Reference to the me
trades case was made by the bouth us.
Commissioner m his report lor 1929-611. H
said that, as nominal manager of an ente -
prise with an accumulated deficit, o
£11,257,800, he had been cited as respondent
in Federal arbitration cases conceinmg t
“the whole of the claims in respect of t e
metal trades group, comprising eight, to
separate organisations ; (2) the federated
Union of Locomotive Enginemen, (< ) ie
Australian Railways Union; (4) the hedera-
tion of Salaried Officers; a,nd (5) the Asso-
ciation of Railway Professional Officers. All
these organisations now have, or are to
have, Federal conciliation committees m
addition to the Federal coui .
Meanwhile the State Governments have
one remedy of their own, though in other
respects the control of their property has
been taken out of their hands. They can
close the most unprofitable lines, and there
are plenty to choose from.
A FOOL’S ADVICE.
JACK THE JESTER: “Nonsense, dear mistress, you are as young and beautiful and sprightly as ever
you were. The physician has lied to you. Spring up, dear lady, and dance a merry jig with me!”


.X -
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD.
J. R. KIRK, Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand).
Total Assets exceed . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid
by the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES.
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
H. E. BJDEN, Secretary.
POLITICAL
POINTS
In Sydney on Friday Commonwealth 5J
per cent, bonds were quoted at a price show-
ing a return of 7f per cent., and hi per cent,
bonds at a figure that gave the purchaser
7f per cent. This is a reaction to the
further fall in the price of wool, to wheat
down to 3s. a bushel at ports, to the dan-
gerous nonsense talked by Lang, who has a
scheme for borrowing countless millions on
the Sydney market (at 5 per cent, deputy-
leader Baddeley suggests) and to the atti-
tude of Commonwealth Ministers and mem-
bers that nothing matters except the return
of Lang and his crowd. The Cabinet sub-
committee had on Thursday held 13 meetings
without coming to a decision concerning its
alleged programme of “economic and financial
reconstruction.” Resolutely tackled, our
difficulties, great as they are, could be over-
come, and the country would be all the
sounder for the struggle; but it is drifting
to a crisis worse than any it has yet experi-
enced because there is no leadership.
Back to the old pastime.
Apparentiy 90 per cent, of the brains and
backbone of the Federal Cabinet went abroad
with Scullin, Moloney and Brennan. Even
Ministers who take the Scullin view of
the situation have put on muzzles, while the
egregious Beasley has stood on Lang’s plat-
form and shouted lustily for a boycott of
the Loan Council and a repudiation of the
Premiers’ agreement, though the Government
is committed to both. The aim of these poli-
ticians is to support a 1928 establishment
on a 1913 income. That way disaster lies.
Earle Page was on hand when the first
train ran from Sydney to Brisbane by the
north-east route through Kyogle ; and he had
every right to be, for the thing would not
have been built but for him. Until the bridge
over the Clarence is completed passengers will
have to change at Grafton, but the line
right through is on the 4ft. 8-Jin. gauge. It
cuts six hours off the journey round by Wai-
langarra, and Brisbane welcomes it heartily,
having an eye to the important Northern
Rivers trade. Sydney has concealed its
enthusiasm, if it feels any.
At Canberra they have been discussing
whether the Loan Council could be dissolved.
There seems to be no doubt that any State
could withdraw" from it in order to get better
terms for itself, just as any member may
withdraw from any other union for the same
purpose. Mr. Lang no doubt knows what
such a member’s former fellow-unionists call
him. It would be interesting to hear the
Labor Premiers of Victoria and South Aus-
tralia presently refer to Mr. Lang as the
Honorable the “scab” Premier of N. S. Wales.
The gentlemen who snigger when a Pro-
tectionist Government offers assistance to
an industry so small as to be invisible to
the naked eye are invited to consider what
happened at Newcastle (N.S.W.) one day
last week. Two batteries of coke ovens, 53
in each battery, were lighted for the produc-
tion of coke and every other practicable coal
derivative; there are over one hundred of
them, including aniline dyes. This lot cost
a million and is merely part of the B. IT.
Prop’s steelworks. And the foundations for
them were laid when Charlie Rasp, the
boundary-rider, pegged out a mining claim
on Mt. Gipps sheep-run. Cliaflie and his
mates formed a syndicate in 10 shares, and
the man who got ten pounds for. one of his
reckoned he had as good as drawn a prize
in Tatt.’s.
Lang claims that as Treasurer of N. S.
Wales he achieved the State’s largest sur-
plus. When a Treasurer goes to the pawn-
shop every few weeks and pays current
expenses out of the proceeds, of course he
will have a surplus. He will get it by
dodging his own proper burdens and push-
ing them on to the next generation. Mr.
Lang seems proud of having done it. There
are other men who would feel differently.
By savings reckoned at £1.026.000 and
additional taxation expected to yield £552,000
Vic. Premier Hogan proposes to balance the
ledger this financial year and pay £128,000
off the accumulated deficit, £1,172,870 of
which piled up in 1929-30. The extra taxa-
tion scheme is a patchwork made up of
£304,000 from income tax (another penny in
the pound on earned income and tuppence
on property income). £52,000 from entertain-
ment tax (beginning with tenpenny tickets),
a halfpenny on cheques (making the duty
2d.), a 10 p.c. surcharge on pi-obate duties,
£43,000 from motor-registration fees at 3d.
a unit, £43,000 more from .betting tickets
(the rates being doubled), and a few odds
and ends. To make the proposals look less
drastic, the plan for increasing the unem-
ployment-relief tax was withheld. The
amount raised by that impost (really another
income tax) is to be trebled if the Hogans
can manage it.
Hogan’s Bpdget provides for levying
income tax on persons holding Govern-
ment or semi-Government jobs at property
rates, which are double the personal-exertion
rates. Judges, Ministers, legislators, civil
servants, Electricity Commission, Savings
Bank, Board of Works, Tramway Board and
municipal officers are included. It is esti-
mated that a whole £40,000 will be raised
by this move. A 10 p.c. cut in salaries
would yield a million and a quarter.
Hawthorn, ex-Premier McPherson’s old
electorate, has pronounced a severe verdict
on the Hogan Budget, if not the doom of the
Hogan Government. At the general elec-
tion Hulse, the Labor candidate, went so
close to shifting McPherson that he was
hailed as sure to win the seat next time.
The voting was 10,978 for the then Premier
and 9614 for Hulse. But the effect of the
Hogan Budget was such that Hulse’s vote
at the by-election slumped to 7116. whereas
Gray, a local councillor, scored 12,430. Hulse
v/as a civil servant with a rooted objection
to cutting the cost of government; and that
makes the result more significant.
Billy has produced the policy of the
Hughestralian party for the N.S.W. State
election. William’s idea is that, since we
have to compete with low-labor countries
for the sale of primary products, it would
be better to let them slide and concentrate
on secondary industries, merely growing
enough wheat, etc., for our own factory
operatives. This is a great idea, of course,
though if we are not to have any overseas
trade William might explain why he thought
it necessary to spend about £20,000,000 on
ocean-going ships. Also it would be interest-
The Australian “party” opens its campaign.
ing to know how he proposes to pay our
overseas interest bill. That bill alone is
over 30 millions a year, and even if Mr.
Hughes patriotically hands over the whole
twenty-five thousand which fell info his lap
it won’t go very far.
Nearly all our Governments are pushing
up income tax and threatening to push it up
still more. Westralia’s Mitchell Administra-
tion is an exception; it realises, what the
Fentons and Hogans don’t realise, that
pastoralists and wheat-farmers will pay
very little income tax this year. Mitchell
is relying mainly on salary cuts to balance
his Budget, though increased revenue is to
be collected by taxing winning bets and
sweep tickets and shoving up the imposts
on picture-shows and the tote.
Being interviewed at Naples, the Prime
Minister is reported to have said that if
more help from J. Bull is not forthcoming
Australia will be “forced to seek other and
more profitable markets for its products.”
It is the sort of thing that Beasley might
say, but it doesn’t sound like Scullin. Col-
leagues who are supposed to be in his con-
fidence hurriedly explained that lie must
RESTING.
“A few weeks ago all the talk was of ex-Treasurer
Theodore and ex-Premier McCormack. Now the
public gaze has shifted to Messrs. Fenton, Bavin
and Lang.”
have been misreported, being incapable of
using threatening language to the effect that
if the Old Man doesn’t lend more money
Australia will sell its wheat to somebody
else at an increased price and let the old
pot go short.
A special conference of delegates repre-
senting the Vic. Cocky party ancl the Rural
Progs, has decided in favor of amalgamating
the organisations, and of participating in a
composite Cabinet provided two-thirds of the
central council (15 out of 22) are agreeable.
Ratification by the annual meetings of the
two parties is needed to seal the arrangement,
but the way has been paved for a consolida-
tion that will shift the Hogan Government,
though the bringing of the 34 non-Labor
Assemblymen into line will require some
generalship. Some of the Labor Ministers
would not grieve if they had to go into oppo-
sition. Retrenchment is not to their taste.
Lang refers to Bavin as a repudiationist
because Bavin refused to go on with Lang’s
plans for shifting St. Andrew’s Cathedral
out of George-street, Sydney. Lang there-
fore puts Premier Bavin and Alderman
Garden in the same party. But as Lang
promises not to go on with Bavin’s plans
in regard to the Western Land leases, and
to repeal all the present Government did.
what is the difference between Lang and
Bavin? The truth no doubt is that Lang,
knowing that his days as Premier were num-
bered. made an arrangement with the church
authorities which he knew quite well that
his successor would not carry through. In
the earliest days of N.S.W. many a brutal
gaoler set a man an impossible, task so that
he might have the joy of seeing him lashed
for his failure. Mr. Lang was really born
a hundred years too late.
Good old Piddo continues to do wonders
for the State which employs him. During
the last year he was so successful in pre-
venting industrial disorders and in redress-
ing industrial grievances that the total strikes
numbered 227. involving a wage loss of
£3.721,412. The States which did not have
the inestimable advantages of Mr. Pidding-
ton’s services could only muster 27 strikes,
involving a loss of £1,147,891.
Present indications are that the N.S.W.
farmer will not get more than 2s. 6d. a
bushel at the siding for 1930 wheat. No amount
of promises which Mr. Lang or anybody else
may make will add a farthing to the price.
But if the farmer has to sell his wheat for
2s. 6d. it is a monstrous injustice that he
should be charged for the services rendered
to him on the old basis of wheat at 4s. 6d.
Mr. Lang knows that with wheat selling at
so low a price the bread bill of the railway
and other industrial workers of the State
must be much smaller, yet he proposes to
resist every measure or attempt to lower
their rates of pay. What Mr. Lane- proposes
to do, therefore, is to give the industrial
workers of this State a bonus at the expense
of the wheatgrower. And then, he has the
impudence to tell the farmer that Lang is
his friend.
Hill, the Labor Premier of S. Aus.. has
done what others might well do —told the
unmarried men of the State that they must
pay something extra. On unmarried men
of 21 and over having a taxable income of
over £lOO per year, a minimum tax of £2
10s. is to be collected. On incomes
only a little in excess of £lOO this certainly
does not err on the side of leniency. Pre-
sumably it will be made clear that widowers
with dependent children are excluded from
the unmarried-men class.
According to the capable Federal autho-
rity, the States contrived in 1928-29, scarce
as loan money was, to spend £4,078,218 of
borrowed funds in inducing people to go on
the land, or not to go off the land. They
went off all the same; the close of the year
saw 3758 fewer people working on the land
than in the year previous. A sound-looking
theory is that heavy taxation, largely due
to the stupendous debt, made the pursuit
unprofitable, and that attempts to make it
profitable by more debt are hopeless. At
.Tune, 1929. the number of Australians em-
ployed in agricultural, pastoral, dairying,
poultry- and bee-farming was given as about
420,000. The manufacturing population was
rather over 450,000, and on the up-grade.
Melbourne “Age” recently made a feature
of two cheering visits. One man offered £lOO
(though unfortunately not in gold) as
the nucleus of a voluntary fund for the re-
duction of the public debt. Another also
offered £lOO, hampered by the proviso that
the sales tax should be abolished, and some
other conditions. After that there was an
interval.
Stevens, the N.S.W. Treasurer, did not
take long to get the details of those two ter-
rible fights with the Money Power, first of
IN. S. Wales and then of London, in which
Lang simply slaughtered his opponents. When
he was Treasurer, Lang wanted two millions
for some local purpose, and the bankers and
other financial institutions told him not to.
attempt it. But he defied them and got three
millions. Lang’s bad luck is that Stevens
used to be the permanent chief of the
Treasury and knows where to look for all
kinds of records. Consequently he turned up
the minutes of conferences held between Lang
and the heads of the principal banks and
between Lang and the chairman of the Stock
Exchange. These disclosed that the financial
institutions approved of the loan and agreed
to help it. Hence its success. In the other
case, McKell, Lang’s Assistant Treasurer,
was sent to London to arrange a conversion
of 12 millions. He reported that it could
not be done without a sinking fund. Mr.
Lang was the strong iron man for exactly
nine days; then he crumpled up and went
down on his knees. McKell replied that the
underwriters now wanted a sinking fund on
old loans also. This time Mr. Lang was strong
steel for precisely eight days; then, with a
despairing yell that he reluctantly agreed,
Mr. Lang’s great jaw collapsed into the dust.
“Appointments made by the present Gov-
ernment have been made in flagrant defiance
of public decency,” Slang told his Auburn
audience, adding that if his crowd were
given the opportunity such appointments
would be reviewed. Talk of “flagrant
“Mr. A. D. Kay is one of the finest fellows I ever
met.” Opposition-leader Lang.
Domain Orator: “A man ought to be get-
ting his hand in again.”
defiance of public decency” is specially rich
coming from the man who gave A. D. Kay
a seat on the Meat Board in return for his
Parliamentary seat, which was wanted for
a Langite—proportional representation en-
abled the oracle to be worked without
reference to the electors (90 p.c. of them
Nationalists) who had put Kay in. That
appointment was so brazenly scandalous that
when the Bavin Government cancelled it
there was hardly a protest heard, except from
the Domain orator himself and his patron.
Nobody has asked Lang yet if it is part of
his “policy” to reinstate Kay. It might be
as well to have that question cleared up.


SOCIETU
and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS
“Plug” : An unusual or symmetrical motor-
car number seems to grip the public fancy;
envious looks follow a big blue car in Mel-
bourne labelled 123456. Curious are the
insistent applications for certain numbers
that are made to the Motor Registration
Branch. In some instances there are adver-
tising reasons, connected with “trade” num-
bers, but the demand for “poker” numbers,
childish as it may seem, is always brisk. One
well-known motorist makes no secret of his
determination to hang 77777 on his favorite
’bus, but he has been unsuccessful so far.
Sometimes good figures are paid to the
owners of particular numbers, such as 1, for
transfer. Even 13 has never been allowed
to go begging.
s|: S': * *
“Guy Fane” : A mild scare was raised in
Brisbane recently when an elderly leper
HE WASN’T A DOSE OF MEDICINE.
MOTHER: “You don’t seem to know how to take Charles.”
DAUGHTER: “Well, I don’t want a husband that has to be labelled like a medicine
bottle.”
escaped from the Peel Island lazaret, in
Moreton Bay, simply by disappearing in
the boat in which he was accustomed to go 1
fishing around the island. Not many years
ago there would have been a hue and cry
raised for the fugitive, but leprosy is losing
its old terrors nowadays, and the authorities
are convinced that the escapee will return
voluntarily. “They always do,” an official
told me, “principally because life in the
outside world is so miserable for them. They
can’t hide their disease, and it makes it
difficult for them to get food or lodging.”
Within recent years two lepers have escaped
from Peel Island, and both returned of their
own free will.
❖ $
“X.S.”: A constable charged with serving
a summons on a man in Fitzroy (Vic.) for
non-payment of rates on two blocks of land
returned the document to the town clerk,
giving as a reason that he did not know
where to serve it. The man had been dead
for half a century.
s': s': :!: *
“Pick”: city jokes sometimes misfire in
the country. Touring members of a Sydney
club were picnicking at Narooma (N.S.W.),
when old Tom, heading
for the port in his usual
dilapidated raiment,
pulled his boat loaded
with pumpkins round the
bend. One of the party
who regards himself as
a fellow of infinite jest
asked the price of the
load, and when informed
that a quid would buy the
lot said he would take it
if the old boatman could
• give him change for a £5O
note —he had nothing
smaller. The' humorist’s
face was a study when
Tom handed out the
requisite £49, mostly in
greasy notes, from the
recesses of his weather-
beaten apparel and pro-
ceeded to discharge the
unwanted mass of vege-
tables. He didn’t men-
tion that he was on his
way to the port to pay over the purchase-
money for a new motor-launch.
>!= * si: s):
“Lex”: They are grinning in the legal
world of an Australian city over the ingeni-
ous manner in which a poor lone woman and
her feminine friends contrived to put it
across the masculine opposition. The legal
advisers of the enemy had arranged to call
and explain just how lie was to have a glor-
ious win. Tliey duly turned up, bursting
with confidence and pride of intellect, or
cunning. The trial Judge was said to be
in his dotage, and counsel and attorney for
the lady were brushed aside as virtually half-
witted. But it was the kind of pride that
goes before a fall. In a convenient cupboard
were witnesses and a shorthand reporter,
attending conscientiously to the proceedings.
When the alleged half-wits heard what had
happened they insisted —not, it may be con-
cluded, without a certain sombre, right-think-
ing joy—on taking what they described as
the high ground. They sadly informed their
flabbergasted critics that all was known,
while virtuously disclaiming any share what-
soever in the stratagem by which it had
become known. There the matter rests at
the moment, but it is full of interesting pos-
sibilities.
*
“C.Q.”: One of the sensations of the
Show in Melbourne was the theft of a build-
ing. It was an 11-storey edifice, and it is
suspected that a small boy made off with it
while the officials weren’t looking. The thing
was an exact model of the new A.P.A. premises
in Collins-street, and had been placed along-
side a model of the Sydney Harbor bridge
for purposes of comparison. The officials
THE ANTIDOTE.
MEKICAL. STUDENT (male) : “Look at them!
And kissing is so dreadfully unhealthy—
it’s been known to have fatal consequences.”
ART DITTO (female): “It’s all right when you have a second boy as an antidote!”
were so anxious to have it back before the
Show finished that they announced that if it
was returned no questions would be asked,
and the restorer could have it for keeps
afterwards.
“Ibn el Issar”: The
Agha Khan, who heads
the list of winning race-
horse owners in Britain
this season, also heads
an even more historied
community. As chief of
the Ismaili Moslems
throughout the world he
is in direct line of suc-
cession to the “Old Man
of the Mountain,” that
Hassan Saba whose
once impregnable fort-
ress on the Elbruz
mountains can still be
traced by the archaeol-
ogist, and whose first
name still survives in
the English tongue as
■‘assassin.” Hassan, who
was a boyhood friend of
Omar Khayyam and
later a generous patron,
built up a society of pro-
fessional m urdere r s.
Sultans, caliphs, kings
and crusaders were his
special prey, and for 200
years lie and his succes-
sors terrorised the then
known world. Conrad
of Montserrat and Ray-
mond of Tripoli, both
kings of Jerusalem,
were among his vic-
tims, and it was one of
his daggermen who
wounded Edward I. To-
day H'assan’s successor
hobnobs with the descen-
dant and namesake of
that Edward, and if he
assassinates anything
confines himself to the
bank accounts of the
bookmakers, who live in
mortal dread of him.
“L.1.P.”: A loud-mouthed Communist
added a few hundred pounds to the cost of
Sydney Harbor Bridge. During the timber
strike there was talk of “sabotaging” the
bridge works by cutting the cables support-
ing the arches. Whether the job was to be
done with a pair of pliers or a manicurist’s
nail-file wasn’t specified, but from January
last until the arches were joined a police-
man was stationed throughout the night at
each end of the bridge.
❖ * *
“Whitehall”: The disintegration of the
Berry Estate, which was practically _ com-
pleted by the recent death of the relict of
John Hay, who inherited part of it, is an
interesting example of what happens to
practically all landed properties in Australia.
In the nineteenth century the Berry Estate
was as large, and as potentially valuable, as
the English Grosvenor Estate was in the
seventeenth century; and it was the same
kind of estate. The thousands of fertile acres
owned by Alexander Berry on the South Coast
of N. S. Wales, between Nowra and the town
that was named after him, may be likened
to the Grosvenor family’s Cheshire proper-
ties between Wirral and Liverpool • and the
land taken up by Berry on the North Shore
will eventually, without the slightest doubt,
be. as valuable as the residential areas in
Mayfair, Belgravia and Pimlico, which were
brought into the Grosvenor family originally
by a milkman’s daughter. The present Duke
of Westminster owns every foot of land that
his ancestor, Sir Thomas Grosvenor, left
behind him in 1700; and, as a result, he has
the biggest rent-roll of any man in Eng-
land, and probably of any city landlord in
the world, Vanderbilt’s not excepted. After
a little over a century, no descendant or
collateral of Alexander Berry is drawing
anything worth mentioning from the country
and city estates which he amassed. Why?
Simply because Australia has no law of
primogeniture. As an example of what
happens under our system the widow of John
Hay left £94,505 (representing her cut of
her husband’s cut of the estate), and not a
shilling of it will go to anyone bearing the
name of Berry or Hay.
❖
“S.T.S.”: There has been some pretty
Sherlock Holmes work in suburban Adelaide
over the burglary of a fur-sliop in the city.
Search over the vine and olive plantations in
the foothills narrowed down to a Burnside
quarry, and finally to a cave, with a door
inside marked “Danger ! Explosives ! Keep
away !” But the padlock was a new one, so
they smashed it. Inside were all the stolen
furs but two —about £l5OO worth.
:]t i'fi : 1 :
“Aileron” : An unusual feature of the aero-
plane tragedy in which pilot Dave Smith was
killed at Mascot (N.S.W.) is that the unfor-
tunate lad was bucked out of the cockpit
by his tremendously fast and tricky ’plane in
exactly the same way that a horseman is cata-
pulted out of his saddle by an outlaw. The
’plane was extremely sensitive to the con-
trols, and apparently the young pilot’s
“hands” were too heavy—he had never flown
the gadget before. Onlookers agree that the
Moth “pigrooted” several times until it got
rid of its unfortunate rider, whose refusal bo
be strapped in probably cost him his life.
* Ms * *
“Centurion”: One by one the splendid
traditions which inspired the Men who
Fought at Min den and elsewhere are being-
obliterated from the Soldier’s Bible, better
known as “King’s Regs.” The latest to go
is pack drill. For some years this important
adjunct to the reformation of the “minor
defaulter” has been held in abeyance, its
salutary provisions only being resorted to
when there were not enough unpleasant
fatigues to provide punishment. An hour’s
pack drill a day for a week in full marching
order, especially in hot weather, was calcu-
lated to make the most hardened sinner per-
ceive the error of his ways. In future he is
to be given “useful or special instruction per-
taining to his corps.” It sounds something
like the method employed by Mr. Squeers at
Dotlieboys Hall.
“J.H.M.A.”: Either end of the great steel
rainbow now overarching Sydney Harbor
springs towards the keyplates from historic
ground. Somewhere not far from the base
of the southern pylon, Lieutenant William
Dawes, of the Royal Marines, established
the first Australian observatory in July, 1788,
and continued in charge of it until his depar-
ture for England three years later. Just
before Phillip’s expedition sailed from Ports-
mouth, the Astronomer Royal, Dr. Maske-
lyne, had recommended Dawes as a capable
scientific observer. His .first observa-
tory was a flimsy wooden structure,,
but it was soon replaced by a more sub-
stantial stone building, and in 1791 it was
equipped with a transit instrument sent out
by Dr. Maskelyne, in whose honor Dawes
named the point. But the little promontory
presently became “Dawes Point” instead of
“Maskelyne’s,” and has remained so ever
since. Across the waters, the rising ground
over which runs the northern approach to
the Bridge was part of a grant made to
James Milson, who built a house there in
1825 and gave his name to the point. Before
that the slope was known as “Hunter’s Hill,”
so called by Thomas Muir, one of the “Scot-
tish Martyrs,” who lived there, after his
father’s home in Scotland. Muir afterwards
moved his residence and its name to the
slopes of what is now Gore Hill, and the
name was later on transferred to the penin-
sula across the Lane Cove River, where it
still remains.
FOOL TO HIS LADY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ah, but listen,
Lady mine!
You I sometime
Held divine.
Now the glamor
Fades away
To the light of
Every day,
And I see you
As you are,
Just a woman,
Not a star,
Strange and passing
Strange is this:
Sweeter are your
Taps to kiss!
And I love you
More, not less,
For your faultful
Humanness.
What is falsehood,
Which is true?
Gild on wisdom,
Folly new?
When Illusion
Dims and dies
Do we then in
Sooth grow wise?
Can blind love be
Sure at all
What does not and
Does befall?
You, for instance,
Wilful, tame,
Pert, prim, never
Twice the same—
Certes! How my
Senses reel!
Are you moonbeams
Or bright steel?
Well ! Cui bonof
Bale or bliss,
You are mine and
Nice to kiss.
Since you’re many
And not one—
Facets flashing
In the sun,
Ripples glinting
On a pool—
Lady, listen
To your fool!
Though all else be
Lies, ’tis true
All these girls I
Love are you.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


“Shep” : Wherever possible in the clearing
of wounded we identified, for medical guid-
ance, the primary cause of the trouble as
bullet wound (G.S.W.), shrapnel wound
(Shrp. W.), shell wound (S.W.), and the
isolated self-inflicted cases (5.1. W.). The
queerest diagnosis of a casualty came to us
at Pozieres, where a Digger had been knocked
by a premature burst of our artillery. A
conscientious orderly scrawled “Premature
Burst” across the card, but by the time we
got him it had become “Premature Birth.”
We packed him into an ambulance bound
ENTANGLEMENTS.
“In those days a man would face cold steel for the
love of a ladye.”
“Yes, I know —corsets and hoops and all that sort of
thing.”
straight for the casualty clearing-station,
where, according to the driver, the nurses
were the first to spot: his complaint when
they were getting him ready for the operat-
ingitable. Two of them tossed for the card
for a war souvenir.
* =:= * *
“Oxmead”: A travelling Australian doctor
has created some sensation in the Shivery
Isles by paying away two Australian £lOO
banknotes in mistake for M.L. £1 ones. It
was the payees, a taxi-man and a storekeeper,
who discovered the mistake and sought out
the visitor to return him £l9B-odd, leaving
him pleasurably astounded at their rugged
honesty. The absent-minded or short-sighted
medico, it appeared, carried his substantial
“roll” in his pocket, wrapped in a handker-
chief, a casualness rare in the medical pro-
fession. I only once met a doctor who
despised or distrusted orthodox banking
methods. He stowed away his fees in
tobacco-tins, kept under lock and key, and
much preferred gold to any sort of paper.
But that was soon after the bank smashes of
the early ’nineties, in which he had been a
sufferer.
* * * *
“Nakh”: Percy Pratt, instructor to the
Warrnambool Gliding Club, had the experi-
ence of following in his silent machine the
evolutions, of some eagles above the crater
of an extinct volcano while he was engaged
in establishing _&n Australian record. He
was in the air 95 minutes—32 minutes longer
than the previous record.
* * * *
“Shep” : By heating a capsule of tear-gas
over a candle in a hermetically-sealed room
at Liverpool (N.S.W.), trainees of the
G.M.F. wearing the latest type helmets got
their first dose of the
stuff. But why the
precaution of masks ?
The tear-gas we knew
in France caused noth-
ing worse than weep-
ing and wailing and
sneezing, and, if this
was the same brand,
the trainees’ clothing
after a few minutes in
the gas chamber would
have absorbed enough
to keep them blubber-
ing long after they’d
discarded it. I re-
member a bitterly cold
day at Ypres, when
we i nvited three
slightly-wounded Dig-
gers to sit around our
brazier during their
wait for an ambulance.
“We’d better not come
in ; we’ve been through
tear-gas,” one of
them replied. “ ’Struth,
the poor cows can’t
shiver out there, even
if they have,” said
our corporal. “There’s
no one in the officers’
dug-out and a fire
going; let ’em sit in
there.” The trio sat
there for half an hour,
passing the first of the
incoming officers as
they were going out
to the ambulance. Not
long after there were
sneezes, sobbings and curses from the dug-out
as its rightful occupants began to sample the
gas exuded from the clothing of the casual-
ties. It lasted a full hour.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: An elaborate game in Adel-
aide has ended in a motorist being caught
out. He advertised, clean against the law,
that he had “seat in a car” between Glen-
elg and the city. The Tramways Trust, con-
vinced that it is losing a lot of money this
way, sent an official to answer, and actually
provided him with an office
at which to be called for. The
owner called, drove his pas-
senger back and forth for a
week, charged four bob (“Put
the money on the floor at the
back; you never know who is
looking”)—and was fined £2O.
❖ ❖
“Cinna”: About the un-
luckiest poet I can recall in
this country was a Dutchman
named Siebenhaar, who rose
to a. comfortable position in
the Westralian Statistical De-
partment, and twanged the
lyre in his spare time. He
wasn’t much of a poet, but
the fact that a man could
hammer out metrical rhymes
in a tongue that wasn’t his
mother one was in itself re-
markable. A few years before
the war Siebenhaar published
a book entitled “Dorothea,”
Shelley-and-water stuff con-
taining some acid and irrele-
vant reflections on Britain’s
treatment of subject races in
India and elsewhere. There
was nothing in his lyrical out-
burst that hasn’t been said by
rebel souls like Swinburne, and
if the war hadn’t happened no-
thing more would have been
heard of “Dorothea,” which
the reviewers treated rather
unkindly. As it was, some-
body brought it to the notice
of the Government, reckoning
that it was highly improper
for a man of alien extraction,
and a civil servant at that, to
say things about England
which are excusable in an
Englishman. Followed some
Ministerial knitting of brows
in the endeavor to ascertain
what the statistician-bard had
been trying to convey and
whether there was any actual
disloyalty in his poetical fren-
zies. Siebenhaar didn’t lose
his job, but he did lose pro-
motion which was about to
come his way, and he was
never quite the same man
afterwards. He returned to
Europe eventually, and pro-
bably cultivates the Muses on
his pension, with no hampering restrictions.
* * * *
“C.Q.” : K. Langford-Smith, of the Church
Missionary Society, threatens to be a sky
pilot in a literal sense. He saves souls on
the Roper River, and has been so struck
with the possibilities of the aeroplane for get-
ting about his enormous diocese that he is
taking advantage of a visit to Melbourne to
qualify as a flier. H'is station is 200 miles
from the next mission and the same distance
from the nearest railway.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Two men called at a suburban
bank in Melbourne and started negotiations
for opening an account. They went away,
only to return later when the manager was
absent at lunch. His assistant ushered them
into the manager’s office, and had a revolver
fired in his face. It was presumably a blank
cartridge, but the discharge was sufficient
to put him off his guard and he was struck on
the head with a loaded hosepipe. The thugs
then rushed into an adjoining room, dragged
a second assistant away from a typewriter
into the manager’s room, and felled him with
the same weapon. After hurriedly snatch-
ing some money from the till they made for
the exit, but the assistant manager had
sufficiently recovered to follow and pepper
tliem w r ith the bank revolver. The criminals
raced to a motor-car waiting round the
corner and ordered the hired driver to step
on it; when he delayed he was pushed into
the road. There was some more ineffective
shooting before they got away, chang-
ing their clothes as they w r ent and presently
exchanging the car for a train to Melbourne.
In the abandoned conveyance were found
two suits of clothes and £lOO in notes. Later
two youths were arrested and charged with
TWO POINTS OF VIEW.
THE BOY: “I think she’s a very unselfish woman, don’t you!"
THE GIRL: “Oh, quite! Although married to one man she is constantly thinking of
others.”
robbery under arms. It may have been a
coincidence, but an American crook drama
which gave exhaustive details of the tech-
nical science of robbing a bank had just
completed a run in Melbourne, and the
methods shown on the screen were copied
faithfully. The screen villains were hard-
ened experts who maintained that inimitable
calm and imperturbability which charac-
terises the type, whereas the real thugs were
obviously as nervous as a pair of cats; but
that only heightens the impression that they
were graduates of what might be described as
Hollywood’s university extension lectures in
criminolatry.
* * * *
“Runa”: There is no need to go back to
Tudor times to show that the English crown
descends to the elder of two daughters (B.
24/9/’3O). At the finish of the Stuart
period the nation sent for Mary, with her
Dutch husband, to take precedence of Anne,
who was on the spot.
* * as *
“Jaymack” : Everard Browne’s proficiency
with his fists was retained after he left
Broken Hill (B. 10/9/’3O) and settled down
as a country squire at Cororoke House, near
Colac. An urgently-required plough arrived
at the local railway station for delivery at
the big house, and a worried forwarding-
agent prevailed upon a neighboring spud
cocky to deliver the implement, pressing a
bottle of whisky on him in return for his
services. Spuds freely sampled the stuff
en route , and arrived at the big house with
an inflated notion of his own importance.
At the front door he staggered from the
waggon, knocked hard on the door with the
butt-end of his whip and demanded of the
housemaid if “Browne” was in. “Mr.
Browne,” corrected Everard, who had arrived
on the scene. “Browne to me,” the other
insisted; “I am Horan, and as good a man
as you.” The question was promptly settled
on the adjacent lawn, a couple of gardeners
acting as seconds. Everard, much the lighter
of the combatants, soon put his man to sleep.
The cocky was then tucked on a stretcher,
lifted on to the waggon and driven to his
home. A mark of battle is still carried by the
vanquished foe. I see it every morning when
I shave.
* * * *
“Fourwalls” : “L’Fou” is in error when he
states that St. Kilda (Vic.) was named
after the Scottish island (B. 17/9/’3O). The
36 migrants whom he men-
tions arrived in Australia
in 1856, years after Gover-
nor Latrobe changed the
name of Green Knoll to
St. Kilda. Melbourne’s pet
suburb received its label
from Sir Thomas Ackland’s
yacht The Lady of St.
Kilda, which berthed there
for some time.
“Stonewall J.” : Prison libraries must be
comprehensive affairs nowadays; it was men-
tioned at the trial which resulted in the
youthful Wray being sentenced to death in
Westralia (he has since been committed to
the asylum) that he had read two books a
day during his incarceration, exhibiting a
marked partiality for those with murders in
them. There are certainly some excellent
works of fiction with murders in them, but
it is hard to imagine a reader whose own
neck was in imminent danger getting any
comfort out of, say, “Oliver Twist,” with
its picture of Sikes fleeing from justice or
Fagin in the condemned cell; so one pre-
sumes that Wray browsed upon lighter and
less edifying tack. Time was when gaol
literature was censored more rigidly. Win-
ston Churchill, when he was imprisoned at
Pretoria during the Boer War, complained
bitterly of the paucity of books provided for
Oom Paul’s enforced guests. He was reduced
to reading “Mill on Liberty” before he
escaped, a coincidence in which the com-
patriots whom he left behind found a certain
appropriateness.
“Harborough”: At a lone spot in West-
ralia, 90 miles south-east of Balladonia. a
small monument has just been erected to the
memory of John Baxter, murdered there by
some of the natives who were with Eyre’s
expedition 90 years ago. Baxter’s bones lay
unburied for 40 years; J. W. Graham, who
has just put up the memorial for the West-
ralian Historical Society, was a boy with
the party that found the skeleton in 1881,
when his father was in charge of the tele-
graph station at Eyre’s Sandpatch. Not
much seems to be known of Baxter except
that he was Eyre’s only white companion in
the earlier stages of the very first crossing
of the continent; it is doubtful whether the
leader could possibly have got through but
for an American whaler, close inshore, which
saw his signals and came to the assistance
of the explorer when he was in the direst
straits. Hence Eyre won through, and lived,
like his contemporary George Grey, to a
great age, in the course of which he was
to make history in other parts of the Empire;
as Governor of Jamaica he was something of
a storm centre. Eyre had much of the ten-
acity of Grey, and some of Bligh’s high-
handedness.
ijc $ * *
“Hayes”: A London daily opens an article
on the Imperial Conference with an assur-
ance that England is always delighted to
have Dominion Pre/niers on British soil. Pre-
sumably they are as pleased to be there, but
I wonder how long it will be before any of
them follows the example of one of the mem-
SIGNS OF THE TIMES.
MRS. DIGGS: “See this — ‘Mrs. Climber, well
known in society, has become a vege-
tarian!’ ”
MR. DIGGS: “Poor Climber—butcher stopped
HIS credit too, I suppose.”
.
bers of the Australian press delegation that
crossed the seas in the last year of the
war. He was a singularly unemotional per-
son, unaddicted to theatrical gestures of any
kind, and he surprised me by mentioning,
quite casually, that the first thing he did
when he felt England under, his feet—it was
his first visit—was to kneel down and press
his lips to the cradle of the race. Probably
in the bustle of disembarking nobody noticed
what he was. doing, or his exploit might have
been featured approvingly in the press. This
was at Liverpool, by the way, not at Lon-
don, although I suppose they taste much
alike, especially around the docks.
THE PICTURESQUE EUPHEMIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If we actively identify ourselves with the Labor
any other political party,’ said a speaker
at the N.S.W. Railway Officers’ conference, ‘we will
get it where Nellie wears her beads.’ ”
°n the old-time figure o’ speech
Which euphemism lacks !
No longer warning tongues declare
bat somebody will get it where
The chicken got the axe.
H'ow far more musical it sounds,
More piquantly it reads,
To learn the blow will strike apace—
Or else you’re talking through—the place
Where Nellie wears her beads.
“The Boot,” for metaphor employed,
Conveyed in days of yore
A bluc'her, sinister and grim.
I offer for a synonym
. “Miss Fortune’s Number Four.”
No longer shall the bruiser stop
A wallop with his nose;
He’ll take it preferably on
The spot where, ever and anon,
Belinda’s powder goes.
Some dip their beaks in ale or wine.
He’s up-to-date who grabs
H'is pint of joy or tot of bliss
And guides it to the orifice
Which Jessie’s lipstick dabs.
Though times be hard, keep up your—well,
The organ that I mean
Is just the one which science sets ■
Beneath the bunch of violets
That decorates Pauline.
A laurel wreath about my brows
I’m scarce the one to crave;
If bays or vine-leaves must be mine
Around the section let them twine
Where Sophie sports her “wave”....
This searching for similitudes
A thirst insistent breeds.
Here’s how! Igo to quench the flame
Within that portion of the frame
Where Nellie wears her beads.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


THE PIED PIPER OF AUBURN TOWN.
“N.S.W. Labor-leader Lang has undertaken to borrow millions for public works, break up the big estates, "stabilise” the wheat market, pay Public Service salaries,widows’ pensions and family endowment on the old scale, restore the 44-hour week,
and make the railways and tramways pay.


NO INVESTOR IS SAFE WITHOUT IT
and^he^ad^ 118 t^loUsanc^s P eo P^ e were ruined in the nineties through being unable to distinguish between the good company
e . a r® °l e<^ ge a s^m^ar disaster. Already scores of companies have
hardship has yet been caused by the making of calls to meet outside liabilities.
gone into liquidation.
But no great amount of
Are you liable for calls? What reserves have your companies got?
And what are your insurance policies worth in case anything serious should happen?
Wly lfoV“««^"n d to a *^ and ° f Monthly ” are 80 “mplete *at the companies themselves often
In compiling its reviews and tables, the “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” draws upon these stores of information.
Nojnvestor, great or small, can safely do without this guide. The smaller the investment the greater the need to make sure it
n whethe t r b il y is th not ay“ Va ' Ue ' for a 3am P le C °PY- along with lid. stamp to cover postage, and
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Judges, especially retired ones, are a long-
lived lot; just-dead John Mclntyre, who sat
o ' ® s Pecks Supreme Court Bench from
ISSJb to 1913, was in his 89th year He
was a native of Canada, and pursued Costs
tor over 20 years in Hobart before the
ermine came his way.
• ?^ le National Federation has
induced Senator Harry Lawson, ex-Premier,
to resume the presidency which he relin-
quished to Cuthbertson wlien he threw up
his Castlemaine seat to stand for the Senate
two years ago. Cuthbertson was then mem-
ber for Albert Park in Vic. Assembly, but
was defeated by Laborite Wallace at the
general election last year.
John Jelley, Chief Secretary in the Hill
Cabinet in S. Aus., has broken down in
health He is to look for it in Centralia,
after having handed in his resignation, which
the Premier is reluctant to accept. He
very nearly had to do the same thing when
holding the same billet in the Gunn-Hill
Ministry five years ago. Jelley, who is a
kindly soul of moderate opinions, has been
a Labor stalwart from boyhood—he is just
07 now—and a Parliamentarian since 1912.
. >r °Y J. IL Wilton, of Adelaide Univer-
sity, has been awarded the unusual D.Sc.
ot Cambridge for original contributions to
science in hi s published works. Adelaide-
born and -bred—his father was for many
years chief-of-staff on the “Advertiser”—he
went on from Prince Alfred’s to the Uni-
versity, took a first-class there in 1903, went
to Cambridge, and later lectured at Shef-
field and Manchester before returning home
some 10 years ago as Professor of Mathe-
matics.
Doornkop” : The late Neville Howse was
a firm believer iri the efficacy of certain old-
fashioned remedies, as the Australian troops
whom he medical-officered on the way to the
Cape over 30 years ago were not long in dis-
covering. Il'owse was surgeon to the troop-
ship Surrey, and his almost invariable pre-
scription at the morning sick-parades, for
anything ranging between a cut finger and
sea-sickness, was “two ounces of God’s
Elixir.” This delightful cure-all was car-
ried in four great bottles labelled “Haust.
Niger,” and was our old and nauseous friend
Black Draught. I was the doctor’s orderly,
and had to serve the vile concoction out and
listen to the blasphemy.
An echo of the visit of Stefansson and the
vice-regal Stradbrokes to Central Australia
six years ago is contained in a recent “Gov-
ernment Gazette.” At Stuart the local police
sergeant conducted the visitors on a tour
of inspection, and so impressed the Earl and
the explorer with the possibilities of the
EARL BEAUCHAMP, now revisiting N. S.
Wales, of which he was Governor 1899-1901.
township that they took up blocks, at an
outlay of £2 apiece. Their allotments figure
among a number recently declared forfeited
“for non-payment of rent.”
Australians had a twofold interest in Sir
John Norton-Griffitlis, who shot himself in
Egypt last week. The firm of which he was
governing director undertook a lot of N. S.
Wales railway construction work during the
war, and it had just finished the Macquarie-
street «subway when its contracts were can-
celled in an atmosphere of political recrimi-
nation. As Engineer-in-Chief at British
G.H.Q. Norton-Griffitlis directed the mining of
the Messmes Ridge—an operation for which
Australia owes him many lives. He was a
staunch Tory, and his advice carried weight
with his party after he ceased to be an
M.P. in 1924, notably during the general
strike. He collaborated with Sir Travers
Clarke. in drawing up the plan of campaign
by which the strike was virtually killed at
birth. An upstanding, soldierly-looking* man,
he had seen active service in every important
British war from the Matabele rebellion in
’96 to the World War, for which he volun-
teered in September, 1914. He had many
Australian friends in London, and never
lost a chance to say a good word for the
Digger as a fighting man.
An outstanding Queenslander was Ernest
Baynes, president of the National Associa-
tion, who died
last week in Bris-
bane at 66. He
began his career
as a drover and
pastoral worker,
and was one of
the party sent by
the Duracks to
establish cattle
stations in North
Westralia. Later
lie was commis-
sioned by the
Queensland Gov-
ernment to in-
quire into the
possibilities of
sugar-growing in
Groperland, an in-
vestigation which
came to nothing.
Back in Queens-
land, he joined
his brothers in es-
tablishing the
meat enterprise
which eventually
became Baynes
Brothers. He was
a leading autho-
rity on stock, a
practised judge of
b 1 o o d-horses, a
keen follower of
racing—for years
he was honorary
FRED JOHNS, leader
of the S.A. “Hansard”
staff and author of
“Who’s Who in Aus-
tralia.”
judge to the Q.T.C. —and a man of great
charm and kindness of heart.
Russell Sinclair, who died at Kirribilli, Syd-
ney, last week, was born at Greenock, Scot-
land, the son of a Presbyterian minister, 68
years ago. A marine engineer, he came to
Australia in 1888, and helped to found the
firm of Wildridge and Sinclair, which later
became a company. He did good work for
the Diggers in the war years and after, becom-
ing chairman of the N.S.W, Red Cross, a
position which he held right up to his death.
His eldest son, a lieutenant in the Argyle
and Sutherland Highlanders, fell in France
in the last month of the war.
Earl Beauchamp was a good friend to
Henry Lawson, both in Australia and when
the poet visited England in 1901-02. Henry
was grateful, and stoutly insisted on his
return home that the incoming Governor had
been victimised in the matter of the
quotation from Kipling that he telegraphed
from Albany to Sydney in 1899; the man
to blame was a clerk, who boxed up the
message by putting in a line he should have
omitted and leaving out one he should have
sent. But by this time most people had for-
gotten the incident.
Justice Draper, who has had to sentence
four convicted murderers to death since he
'has been on the Supreme Court bench, is a
Cambridge and Inner Temple man who was
admitted to the Westralian Bar 8S years ago.
He sat for some eight years in the Assembly,
where he became Attorney-General, his term
of office being cut short when he was rejected
for West Perth, a seat corresponding to
Toorak (Melbourne) in its anti-Labor tex-
ture. What may have added bitterness to
the defeat was that it was administered by
a woman; Draper was consoled with the
vacant Judgeship immediately afterwards.
The lady M.L.A. (Mrs. Cowan) lasted only
a term. She was the first of her sex to sit
in an Australian Parliament.
Thomas Grieve Adamson was Governor of
Trial Bay and Berrima gaols before he went
on the land at Tamworth (N.S.W.). He
was a pioneer of new methods in several
lines; his 10-ton exhibit of Australian honey
at the London Dairy Show in 1914 woii
the only medal Australia has secured abroad
for that commodity; he was the first to
export lucerne and wheaten chaff to the
Philippines, and he helped to start co-opera-
tive butter factories in two places. He was
active in all patriotic movements during the
war; His later years were spent in well-
earned retirement in Sydney, where his use-
ful life has closed.
Some of the ex-Labor Ministers whom
Lang sacked in 1927, and who reviled him
bitterly therefor and dubbed their successors
a “Scabinet,” have come obediently to heel
again at the crack of the election whip. One
of these is Carlo Lazzarini, who opened his
campaign with a warm tribute to the states-
manlike qualities of the gentleman who gave
him the boot 5-J years ago. Others have
proved less pliant. George Canu, who held
office in two Labor Governments and who
contested Lakemba as an Independent Labor
candidate after Lang had split the party, is
in the field this time on the Nationalist
ticket. Cann sat in the House of Reps, for
Nepean from 1910 to 1913 before entering
State politics; he served two years with the
A.I.F.
Father Segrief. .who has been appointed
Rector of St. John’s at Woodlawn, near Lis-
more (N.S.W.), was the first R.C. chaplain
to receive a commission in the Maoriland
forces in 1914. After the war he joined the
teaching staff of St. Patrick’s, Wellington.
Some October birthdays :
Mrs. Doris Booth, of Rabaul, N.G. (author of
“Mountains, Gold and Cannibals”), on Ist; J.
“Garry” Roberts (of Kallista, Melb., to whom C.
J. Dennis dedicated his “Sentimental Bloke”), 70;
Chas. P. Smith (managing ed. of “West Australian”),
51, and R. D. Boys (Chief Librarian of Melb. Public
Library), 64, on 3rd; Justice Lowe (Vic.), 50, and
It. L. Curthoys (editor of Melb. “Argus”), 38, on
4th; Knight N. C. Lockyer (formerly Comptroller-
General of Customs), 75, on 6th; Justice Ferguson
(N.S.W.), 69, on 7th; Bishop Clotty (Bathurst),
44, on 9th; poet Dr. Chas. H. Souter (Adel.), 66,
on 11th; H. C. Budge (Ma State Governor’s official
secretary), 57, on 12th; novelist Jack McLaren, 43, on
13 th ; Prof. Aleock (Q.), 44, and Stanley Addison (Melb.
Uni.), 50, on 14th ; Langdon Bonython (Adelaide
“Advertiser”), 82 ; N. G. Bell (ex-Commonwealth Rail-
way Commissioner), 70, and Dr. Darnell-Smith (Syd.
Botanic Gardens), 62, on 15th; Federal Statistician
C. H. Wickens, 58, on 16th; Tom Mutch (ex-N.S.W.
Minister of Education), 45, on 17th; S. Aus, Chief
Secretary James Jelley, 57; N.S.W. Geologist E. C.
Andrews, 60, and Lionel Lindsay, 56, on 18th;
poetess and author Nina Murdoch, on 19th; Q. S.
Spedding (“Labor Daily,” Syd.), 39, on 22nd;
Bishop Thomas (Willochra), 49, and Justice Napier
(S. Aus.), 48, on 24th; N.S.W. Minister Dr. R.
Arthur, 65; W.A. ex-Minister A. McCallum, 52, on
25th; Speck’s former Premier Elliott Lewis, 72, and
Archgaiters Sharp (Brisbane), 65, on 27th; Vic.
Senator Robt. C. D. Elliott, 45, and T. J. Ley, ex-
M.R.H. for Barton, 51, on 28; and explorer G.
Hubert Wilkins, 42, on 31st.
Passed over a few days ago as the result of
injuries received in a motor-accident, Teddy
Reynolds, of Wellington, formerly of Auck-
land (M.L.). Thirty years ago, in the days
of the great cycling boom, Reynolds was
one of the best racing cyclists in the
Dominion. He was holder of most of the
amateur championships and was considered
good enough to pit in match races against
such professional riders as George Sutherland
and “Plugger” Bill Martin —of course by
special dispensation. Like so many old-time
racing cyclists, Reynolds went into the cycle
business and then became a motor-importer.
The new president of the Labor party in
S.A. is Harry Kneebone, former IM.L.A. He
is a veteran whose connection with the
party began in Coolgardie 25 years ago, when
he was editor of the local “Miner.”
REV. J. W. GROVE, principal of the
Methodist Ladies’ College, Melbourne.
Alexander Krakowsky, the Itussian doctor
who settled in Adelaide after marrying a
South Aus. girl in Europe, has left an estate
valued at over £13,000. He died lately while
on a visit to Europe.
The death of Irwin Little in Brisbane
removes a link with Queensland’s earlier
days. A Wiltshir email, he came to Brisbane
in the early ’seventies, and after a short
spell of bush work entered the Civil Service,
from which he retired some years ago. He
was a man of many interests, ranging from
music—he was one of the founders of the
Brisbane Musical Union —to cricket and
rowing.
J. C. L. FITZPATRICK,
whose retirement has de-
prived the N.S.W. Nationalists of a pic-
turesque and hard-hitting speaker. He was
the Assembly’s Oldest Inhabitant, having
been a member since 1895, with a break of
three years.
Just passed out at a Melbourne private
hospital, Harry Looney, for 35 years private
coachman to the late Lady Janet Clarke.
In his early days he was a dashing horse-
man and was a member of the Rupertswood
Field Artillery team sent to England by the
late William Clarke. Later he qualified
as a veterinary surgeon and practised at
Sunbury. One son lies under a wooden cross
in France.
A veteran who will be affectionately remem-
bered by every A.I.F. man who went into camp
through the Sydney Sports Ground depot
passed out the other day. This was W. .J.
Montgomery, much too old even then to be
sent overseas, who served as a sergeant in
that depot, where his full fruity voice call-
ing upon the recruits to “Show a leg there,
boys!” was a feature of the reveille. “Monty”
was an actor of the old school trained in
Sydney by William Hoskins: in his younger
days he had toured with G. C. Miln’s Shaks-
pcarean co. He was a sort of foster-father
to a lot of young Diggers who came into
camp from the country.
James Iloldsworth, dead at Port Augusta
(S.A.) at 74, had been Town Clerk for what
must be nearly the record period of 42
years. He was also head at times of nearly
every local movement, from the hospital to
the cricket club, and from railway committees
to the Presbyterian Sunday-school. A great
rifleshot and oarsman in his day, too.
John iCurtin, M.H.R. for Fremantle, who
has laid the plinth of a sound reputation as
a debater during the two or three years; he
has been in the Federal Parliament, was
about the best editor the “Westralian
Worker” ever had. It has never been an
easy job to run a Labor paper—there are
generally too many bosses —and no editor
ever lasted long on this one until Curtin
was imported from Melbourne in the war
years. He proved at once forcible and tact-
ful enough to suit everyone, and a ready
writer as well. When the present Labor
Government was formed it looked as if the
journalist would be the State’s represen-
tative, but “Texas” Green carried more
weight in the Caucus scramble for portfolios.
“Whitehall”: From the Sydney “Guar-
dian” :
A lady who used to visit Government House SO
years ago stated on Saturday that she had watched
Eai'l Beauchamp’s career closely, and claimed that
his family fortunes and views had changed from
great riches and ultra-Toryism to a gentlemanly
moderate Liberalism.
Actually, he is one of. the few well-known
men in the Empire whose fortunes and views
have not changed at all. He still owns the
family estates in Worcestershire which he
inherited while at Oxford. Taxation has
increased, but so has the value of his town
properties. As for the Beauchamp views, at
23 he was the most radical mayor Worcester
has ever known; at 25 he was a London
School Board Progressive (nineteenth-century
London regarded Progressives as revolution-
aries) , and at 27 he was in Sydney hobnobbing
with indigent poets, and preferring the demo-
cratic Athenamm Club to the Tory Union.
He was one of the few peers who advocated
swamping the Lords to pass the Parliament
Act.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
A Great Neglected Asset
Something must be done with the coal
shales of N.S.W. In our present, circum-
stances it is more than a disaster, it is a
scandal, that they should remain unworked.
Their proven extent is enormous, and they
are easily the richest among all the known
deposits of the world.
For many years they were a considerable
source of wealth, although at that time the
best we could do with the shales was to
export them as crudes to Scotland. Then an
English company came upon the scene. Had
it merely wasted the million or two which
it raised in London the case would have
been bad enough. Actually it bought up
the original undertaking in order to get
the whole business into its own hands, so
that the old went with the new. Ever since
then, the fact that over a million and a half
was lost in this enterprise has served as a
stand-off signal. The truth is that the money
was spent without intelligence, and much of
it was wickedly wasted.
But the enormous wealth of these deposits,
buried under the roughest parts of the Great
Dividing Range, remains what it was in the
days when it made such a sensational appeal
to the London investor. All that has hap-
pened since then is that, (1) the technique
of oil distillation has been vastly improved,
and (2) the local market for benzine, lubri-
cating oils and other shale products has been
still more vastly increased. Latterly a group
of Broken Hill companies has become inter-
ested’in the wreckage of the old English co.,
hut it is understood that they do not find
the outlook in that direction very promising.
It will be a national misfortune if they with-
draw entirely from the shale-oil field. What
they have looked at is not by any means all
that this section of the Dividing Range has
to offer.
In perhaps no other direction could natu-
ral resources be so quickly capitalised. The
Governments of the Commonwealth and of
the State must offer the most practical en-
couragement to any people who will enter
this industry. And it would not be amiss
if the responsible officers of the Miners’
Federation showed a sincere desire to assist.
Here they might see the greater number of the
surplus miners of Newcastle and the South
Coast absorbed by a new industry yielding
products for which there is a much surer
market than for the products of their old one.
The Wool Outlook
The first series of the season’s wool sales
has ended on an almost unanimous note.
In Westralia, South Australia and N. S.
Wales prices for good-quality wools remained
firm, and demand was solid. Inferior sorts
and oddments were little sought, and prices
were lower, with a consequent drop in aver-
ages. At all three sales there was good buy-
ing by such regular customers as Japan,
France .and Germany, with Bradford show-
ing keener interest than for some time past.
To this stage, the hope for a lift in prices
has not, been fulfilled; the average for all
sorts stands at a little less than 2d. a
pound below that for last season.
Perth opened the ball for the first time,
the catalogue being largely composed of
wools from the Murchison and the North-
West. Over 90 p.c. of the offerings found
buyers, most of this wool being well adapted
to Continental requirements. June levels
were fairly well maintained, greasy going
as high as 13|d. per lb. This was offset, as
elsewhere, by the indifference of bidders to
the inferior grades save at low prices.
Adelaide sales on the whole were below
par, much of the wool reflecting the drought
conditions, now happily a thing of the past.
The average for the series dropped to be-
tween 6d. and 7d. for greasy, though good
lines ran as high as 121 d. and were well
bought. Later clips are expected to show
much finer quality, and the market should
reflect this at the next series.
Sydney sales, which generally .set the
keynote for Australia, found conditions much
the same as in Perth and Adelaide. For the
better-quality fleeces and skirtings bidding
was b.risk, greasy selling up to 17-id. Prices
for heavy, dirty and burry wools were very
irregular, the average for the series drop-
ping to 81d. for greasy as compared with
11.3 d. last season.
London, opening with a catalogue of West-
ralian, Queensland and M.L. wools, showed
a tendency to firm prices. Several West-
ralian clips reached from lid. to 12d., while
Queenslanders moved off as high as 13|d.
Demand was good and clearance satisfactory.
On the face of it, there seems no reason
for undue pessimism. The second series,
due to commence next week, will give a
better idea of the ultimate outcome of the
season.
The Wheat Position
In August Australian wheatgrowers were
congratulating themselves on a marked im-
provement in the price, following on reports
of bad harvests in other parts of the world.
Wheat sold in Sydney at 4s. 2|d. per bushel
and in London at 375. 9d. a quarter. These
figures were not maintained; on the con-
trary, there has been a fall so persistent that
last week bulk N.S.W. wheat was sold at
2s. ll|d. a bushel for prompt delivery in
Sydney (there are still 4,000,000 bushels in
the elevators), and 3s. was accepted for
new season’s wheat. There have been sales
in London at as low as 28s. 10$d. a quarter,
and Russian wheat has been offered in that
free market at 275. 6d. Chicago quotations
in the last seven weeks have dropped from
96§ cents to 79J cents a bushel for Sep-
tember delivery.
Manipulation of the Chicago market by
operators financed by the Soviet Govern-
ment, coupled with the dumping in Europe
of every bushel of Russian wheat that can
be sent out of that country, is suggested as
a cause of the lamentable fall. Whether this
has. been done purely for profit or as a
means of promoting discontent among farm-
ers in “capitalistic” countries can only be
guessed. Before the war exports of Russian
wheat varied between 50,000,000 and
200,000,000 bushels a year. They have not
in any recent year exceeded 46,000,000
bushels; in 1927-28 the total exported was
only 4,000,000 bushels. This may or may
not indicate the building up of a huge
exportable surplus to be used when it will
do most good to the Red Republic or most
harm to “capitalism,” or both.
The position is that, unless there is a
recovery in the market, the Commonwealth
will have to sell such of its wheat as is
exported at a price below the cost of pro-
duction. It is cruel luck for the farmers,
who were urged to Grow More Wheat and
promised 4s, a bushel at siding, condition-
ally on their accepting a compulsory pool.
This guarantee, it is now clear, could not
possibly have been financed. Nevertheless
those to whom it was lightheartedly offered
cannot be left in the lurch. They will have
to be kept on their holdings, come what may.
The Government which urged them to crop
every acre they could will have to throw
itself into the movement to cut costs wher-
ever they can be reasonably cut.
There is one way in which the situation
might be turned to good account. Wheat will
keep, and as part of a balanced ration it can
be profitably fed to pigs. Pig-rearing is an
industry which is strangely neglected in Aus-
tralia, and one with great export possibilities,
while there is considerable leeway to be
made up in the Australian market. Den-
mark, with a population a little more than
half that of the Commonwealth and an area
a little more than half that of Tasmania,
exports annually to the United Kingdom
alone about £26,■000,000 worth of bacon.
Maoriland, which has only begun to appreci-
ate the virtues of the pig in very recent
years, exported last year £550,000 worth of
bacon and pork. A lot of it came to Aus-
tralia.
Treasure from Davy Jones
One Queensland industry which gets com-
paratively little notice has returned the best
figures for the last five years, when produc-
tion is translated into cash value. During
1929-30 Thursday Island divers took £280,552
from Davy Jones’s treasure-chest in pearls,
beclie-de-mer, and pearl-, tortoise- and
trochus-shell. The total is £33,544 better
than that for 1928-29, increases in pearl-
shell (£51,956) and beche-de-mer (£4750)
more than balancing decreases in trochus-
shell (£21,494), tortoise-shell (£1077) and
pearls (£591).
In all 1429 tons of pearl-shell worth
£213,458, 19841 b. of tortoise-shell (£566),
and 505 tons of trochus-shell (£38.725) were
obtained. The value of the 181 tons of
beche-de-mcr was £21,199, and pearls won
represented £6604. Overseas buyers have
persuaded the industry to limit pearl-shell
output in 1930-31 to 850 tons, so it is un-
likely that the current year’s operations will
be as good.
The Thursday Island hive gathered more
wealth than all the other Queensland acti-
vities collected under the general heading
“Fisheries.” Production in fish, crabs,
turtles and oysters was worth £186,631, an
increase of £7350 on 1928-29.
The Empire and Its Customers.
The job of presenting a coherent and com-
prehensive view of the trade, of the Empire
might well daunt the soul of the bravest
economist. Although there is a vast sea
of official statistics in which to wade, the
returns of various dominions and colonies
are prepared in different ways, and in many
cases they don’t tally. L. St. Glare
Grondona, who has just produced a book
called “Empire Stocktaking’* (incidentally,
he worked in the Repatriation Department
for a time, and afterwards looked after The
Bulletin’s London office), evidently knew
where to get the pertinent facts and figures,
and has put a vast amount of work into their
compilation. He has made one general map
out of a thousand sectional charts, and is
able to show within reasonable bounds of
accuracy how the units of Empire exchange
their commodities and the trend of their
trade relationships with nations outside the
confederation.
The United Kingdom, in the years 1924
to 1928 inclusive (a period for which
most of the figures that follow are based
on averages), imported annually £386,200,000
worth of merchandise and bullion more than
it exported. It took in that period 62 p.c. of
its imports from foreign countries and sold
57 p.c. of its exports within the Empire.
If the Empire units outside Britain could
have supplied a bigger proportion of Bri-
tain’s requirements, they would obviously
have been able to buy more from the U.K,,
and neither the U.K. nor the Dominions
would have so many workless people on their
hands.
Mr. Grondona shows that in many depart-
ments of trade the Empire could, at present,
rely on its own resources, and in others it
could, within a reasonable number of years,
dispense with outside supplies. Outside those
categories only a very few commodities fall.
Most important of these are petroleum, of
which only 0.4 p.c. of the U.K.’s needs is sup-
plied by the Empire; tin, 82 p.c. of imports of
which by the U.K. comes from foreign coun-
tries ; flax, Empire resources of which, out-
side Britain, are negligible; and certain soft-
woods, of which the Empire’s supplies are
below domestic requirements.
For the rest, Britain imports heavily from
foreign countries certain commodities which
the Dominions number among their staple
exports. Twenty-eight per cent, of the
U.K.’s total consumption of wheat, 32| p.c.
of barley, 88.4 p.c. of maize, 40 p.c. of" beef,
20 p.c. of mutton and lamb, 58.1 p.c. of
bacon and ham, 47.7 p.c. of butter, 44.6
p ; c. of eggs, 48 p.c. of apples, 77 p.c. of
citrus fruits, 85.6 p.c. of bananas, 77 p.c.
of canned fruits and 80 p.c. of dried fruits
flow in annually from foreign lands. Aus-
tralia has a vested interest in all those items.
Of especial interest to the Commonwealth
is J. Bull’s habit of purchasing 92 p.c. of
his imported wines, 774 p.c. of his tobacco
supplies, 90 p.c. of his raw cotton, 88 p.c.
of his imported timber and 40 p.c. of his
imported hides from lands where the Union
Jack doesn’t float.
What can be done about it? Mr. Gron-
dona doesn’t undertake to say—he steers
clear of political policies—but he propounds
a few practical questions and answers them
according to the facts he has collated. By
this means he manages to convey that neither
John Bull nor his overseas family can pro-
duce commodities as cheaply as some other
countries so long as those other countries
are satisfied with a lower standard of living
“than that properly insisted on by British
people in British countries.” Whether it is
good policy for Bull or his family to buy the
produce of low-standard labor, the dumped
surpluses of foreign countries and imports
supported by foreign bounties, rather than to
“pay such regular prices as would ensure
the maintenance of a standard of life in
keeping with British ideals,” is, Mr. Gron-
dona says, a “question for the electorate.”
It is—and a most pertinent question! Then
he asks how far the countries of the Empire
outside Britain would be willing or able to
buy from Britain rather than from foreign
countries, and answers that they have
already given a tangible expression of their
desires in that direction by giving the Old
Man tai-iff preference.
The Burden of the Middleman
Dear Bulletin, —“Jack Point’s” sugges-
tion of circularising customers (B. 24/9/’3O)
has already been tried by many fruitgrowers
and found to be unsatisfactory. Direct, deal-
ing between producer and consumer may be
reached if growers divide their _ State into
districts, and if those in each district form
themselves into a distributing co. The direc-
tors would have to be growers elected by all
the growers in the district; and the man-
agers should be salaried officials. A lorry
or motor service could radiate from the
central distributing centre, or branch stores
might be established at convenient places.
Such a co. would be really the middleman
without taking the middleman’s profit.
This system could be applied to all growers
of foodstuffs; yet the middleman cannot be
eliminated from other branches of produc-
tion. He plays n vital part in the organisa-
tion of industry; in the bringing together
of manufacturer and customer he is indis-
pensable. So many producers co-operate
nowadays to turn out even the simplest
article that it is almost an impossibility for
the consumer to order directly from them the
article that he wants. The middleman does
this for him, and the profit the middleman
receives is the price we pay for specialisa-
tion. For performing this service he often
receives more than he. should; but that is
a matter for legislative control. —Yours, etc.,
Macflecknoe.
What About the Boys?
“Country Ped”: The depression has hit
boys harder than anyone. Many youngsters
have not had regular work since they left
school at the end of 1928, and as matters
are shaping they are not likely to have any
f&r another 12 months or two years. And
the boy when he leaves school is so pathe-
tically eager to work. The world is his
oyster then. But he can soon develop lazy
habits, if not worse ones, when disappoint-
ment and despair dog his efforts at finding
a job.
What is to be done for these lads? I
have in mind not only the boys who have
left school in the past 12 months but those
who in the natural course of events will be
leaving at the end of this year. What
better way is there for providing for them
than to keep them at. or send them back to,
school (especially technical school), always
ready for the job as soon as it is available?
A weekly grant from the unemployment funds
towards their maintenance would be an
expenditure of more lasting benefit to the
country than the shifting of heaps of sand.
While other enterprises in Vic. are mark-
ing time Yallourn is still expanding. Since
1924 the h.p. generated from the muddy-look-
ing brown coal has increased from 30,000
to 200,000 —or that is the figure expected by
the end of the present year. As for the
future, nothing but a discovery of cheaper
raw material or a more economical source of
energy than electricity can affect it. One
square mile of the stuff is reckoned to be
enough for Victoria’s wants for 1000 years,
and there are 30 square miles of it around
Morwell alone. And chairman John Monash
believes there are workable seams in many
other parts of Gippsland.
* # * *
Thursday Island has introduced a new
vogue—motor-car numbers cut out of mother-
o’-pearl. Several local cars now have the
pearlshell numbers flashing as they pass
along the parade, and doubtless the idea
will spread south. Another form in which
m.o.p. is being utilised is as name-plates for
houses. Well-designed inscriptions in pearl-
shell letters about 21 inches high, set on
an appropriate background, have been sent
away to grace the front of some Sydney
homes. There are other ways in which m.o.p.
could be utilised in house and building adorn-
ment ; and they are all calculated to help
a useful Australian industry.
* * * *
Australia’s list of seaports has been added
to by the gazetting of Botany Bay as a port
of entry and discharge. A Danish motor-ship,
the Mexico, has been unloading her bulk
cargo of motor-spirit into lighters lying in
the bay. Years before Federation, small
vessels from other parts of Australia occa-
sionally visited the port, and the Government
maintained a bit of a Customs staff there to
supervise the traffic. It is hoped that in the
near future Botany Bay will be utilised for
tlie whole of the fuel-oil and taotor-spirit
shipments to N. S. Wales. Sydney is growing
so thickly round the foreshores of Port Jack-
son that the landing and storage of cargoes
of this description are becoming a problem.
* * * *
The heart of the Australian poultry-
breeder has been uplifted of late years by an
overseas demand for pedigree chooks. Among
our customers are M.L., India, South Africa,
the U.S.A. —which breeds many fine strains
itself —and even Britain; and now Japan
is buying heavily. Black Orpingtons and
White Leghorns are the favored breeds.
$ * * *
Baars and Son, long established in Holland
as cigar manufacturers, are to open a fac-
tory in one of the big Australian cities —
which one is not yet determined. Most of
their material comes from the Netherlands
Indies, a fact which ought to make fol-
lower cost to the Australian cigar-smoker.
* * * *
The Brisbane tramway service has always
been notably efficient, and the financial
returns are much better than Sydney is get-
ting. Among the reasons are low fares —
there arc only four runs costing as high as
4d. —concession tickets and special rates for
school children. Scholars up to the age ot
12 could lately travel over all lines, except
those on which the adult fare was 4d., toi
a penny for three sections and 2d. for
trips, whether in school hours or not. Ihe
age-limit has now been raised from 12 to Li.
* # * =3=
The horses of South Aus. got a line testi-
monial from H. J. Gidney, judge at the
Adelaide Show. “I say without fear of con-
tradiction,” said the expert from Victoria,
“that the horse classes stand alone in the
Commonwealth; especially the ponies and the
horses-in-action.” Sidney Kidman smiled
appreciatively—and immediately put up 000
horses for sale at Ivapunda; his last big
sale, of 2000 head, was in 1916. “There is
quite an old-time inquiry for horses, said
Ross Coles, the auctioneer. “The demand tor
draughts is remarkable. It is also quite
good for the Indian trade, which America
looked like capturing.”
*
Westralia reports the discovery, after re-
search at the University, of a cheap anti-
corrosive water-soluble oil. A mixture ot
one part to 500 parts of water will prevent
boiler-scaling and obviate the expense ot
chipping, while there was no sign of prim-
ing when the oil was mixed with feed or
boiler water. A small quantity added to the
water in a motor-car radiator prevented over-
heating of the engine and checked corrosion,
for a couple of months at least.
-; 5 * * *
Queensland is finding the motor-train emi-
nently useful on lines that cannot possibly
be worked at a profit with the old steam-
driven plant, and is going in for more. * oui -
rail motor vehicles of a much larger type
than those already in use are now in hand
at Ipswich railway works, while a number
of the smaller class is also being constructed.
The big fellows, two of 150 li.p. and two
of 100 h.p., will be used for long-distance
runs, as well as for branch-line and subur-
ban services. Motor trains are now run-
ning on 32 sections of the State railways.
“Erua”: A too-officious Government
department in M.L. proceeded against a well-
known Wellington firm for permitting its
shopgirls to sport colored gowns instead of
the usual black; the offence was that the
cost of the new apparel had been collected
from the wearers. Girls testified with
emphasis that they had taken a dislike to
their sombre garments and requested per-
mission to brighten up things by adopting
colors, the new frocks being- made at reduced
rates. The magistrate curtly dismissed the
case, with costs.
jj : :Je ❖ ***
“Sawyer Bill”: “Huflin-Guffin (B.
10/9/’3O) isn’t entitled to condemn the whole
forestry business because trees grown m an
avenue are not a commercial proposition. . 1
have been in the sawmill line over oO
years, and during that time I have bought
many trees that were grown in gardens or
parks. But they were worth only a fourth
to three-eightlis of the value they would have
attained had they been in the forest or jungle,
and they would not pay for long haulage.
Pine-trees grown in the open branch ou.
all the way up,- and are knotty from top to
bottom • in the scrub they would have a clean
trunk 60 to SO feet long before a limb would
show. These will cut big timber; the avenue
variety is only fit for case-making.
Two motor shows ago in Melbourne an
object of interest was a gigantic truck run
on crude or even used sump oil with a
Diesel engine. The performances of this
vehicle were so remarkable that there was
an inclination to regard them with suspicion;
but confirmation has come recently from
the U.S.A. and from England, where cars
equipped with crude-oil engines have made
satisfactory performances. A four-seater
fitted with a Diesel-type engine travelled 200
miles from London to Coventry and back,
using three gallons of crude oil at four pence
a gallon. Now comes the report that 100
’buses of the compression-ignition type have
been put on the London streets. The import-
ance of that development to Australia is that
it gives promise of a time when we shall be
abie to use our shale and coal oils ,£s
fuel instead of paying close on £8,000,000
a year for imports.
s ’i ❖ •
Queensland is witnessing a bit of a revi-
val in prospecting, gouging and other varie-
ties of mining peculiarly the province or
the individual or the small party. An appeal
to diggers in the Ohillagoe district to come
along with consignments of copper sulphide
ores to keep the smelters going has met with
a good response, nine or ten little shows
having started to send in a fair tonnage.
Even if prices should return little more than
tucker, that is better than no tucker at all,
which is what the closing down of the big
plant would mean. ...
There isn’t a Government in Australia
that couldn’t save money by cutting down its
printing bills. In every Government print-
ing works a vast quantity of stuff is turned
out —reports of committees, statistics, lists
of questions to be asked in Parliament, and
what not—and. shot into newspaper and
various other offices, including magisterial
ones. A small fraction is useful to the
recipients, but the great bulk never even
has the covers ripped off. A tardy attempt
is being made at Canberra to curb this sheer
waste.
* * * *
Kew (Vic.) Council has installed what
has the appearance of being another terror
for motorists—a new form .of cop con-
sisting of a metal frame, let into and flush
with the road surface, from which stand
upright four red wings. At first glance it
looks a nasty thing to hit, and motorists
give it a wide berth. The flaps, however,
are made of rubber, and should a tyre go
over them they simply lie flat, springing
back when the wheel has gone beyond.
* * * *
The time may yet come when petrol will
be laid on to new houses, along with the gas
and the water. In U.S.A. it has long been
the custom for the producing cos. to lay
pipelines, some of extraordinary length, to
the refineries. There are 80,000 miles of
these conduits. Now the refineries are
beginning to put down lines alone- the main
highways to the distributors. One line is
1600 miles in length and cost £20,000,000.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's (com. Saturday) .... “Sons o’ Guns”
Criterion “Bird in Hand”
bTATB Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMTNG WEEK.
£ ing ' s “Let Us Be Gay”
A. IVOL / The Follies of 1930
i IOYT s Movies and Talkies
bTATE Movies and Talkies
«
Omitting the current Art shows, Sydney’s
comedy of the moment is “Miget Golf” (the
absent “d” possibly a contribution to the
him censorship controversy). The piece is
staged on the Lower Ground Floor —that
is to say, in the basement—of the State
Theatre (or Theater, if another contribution
is m order).
Of course, as the parts are taken by the
audience, a fair amount of golf knowledge is
necessary—enough, anyway, to always eh all:
your cue before trying a screw shot, and to
never try the Smith convention more than
once a night. With that equipment, you
can go confidently down the marble stairs,
Pay your bob, pass through a stile, line up
in a queue, smoke three cigarettes, learn that
your neighbor in the line has four children
down with measles, uses a safety-razor,
always knew that Australia would have to
meet her present difficulties and would have
backed Veilmond only the barmaid at tin;
Star put him off it, and in time collect a
stick and ball; and so to business. The fact
that you are dressed in ordinary street garb,
whereas some are ornamenting the surround-
ing in plus-fours, is a trifle disconcerting,
until you realise that here are your old
friends the Attaboys, the Dismounted Pos-
tilions, in a way more splendid, more ethereal
than ever. Perhaps “old friends” is coming
it a bit familiar. You know you never dared
speak to them when they lorded in the
uniform of the Clan Doyle. Still, you do find
yourself having a chat with one of them,
and a decent ordinary human fellow he is.
He may give the impression that he has, so
to put it, slid down the Alps. But maybe
that is only an illusion. Why should he be
sad ? Look at the dickies and bibs and such-
like that Masons and Oddfellows and Ancient
Buffaloes and Judges and Bishops and
Jockeys and Professors and Women and
“Lined up all the Attaboys one chilly morn-
ing at dawn.”
people like that get about in. Why pick on
golfers as occasions for sorrow, even if they
do look a little more ridiculous than the
general run of things that the uncultured
birds laugh at?
But, then, are these golfers by choice?
May not the glissade have been sharp and
painful? For all you know, Mr. Stuart
Doyle may have lined up all the Attaboys
one chilly morning at dawn and said to them,
“Now, men, you came into the Foreign
Legion prepared for better or for worse.”
Then he may have fallen out every tenth
man and offered the choice of getting married
or getting plus-fours. Or maybe those with
some hint of crinkle in their pants, some
speck of dust on a shoecap, some flaw in
contour of waist, may have been confronted
with the same single choice. Or it may
have been decided in some game of shove-
ha’penny, or ludo, or snakes and ladders.
Anyway, you don’t know how it happened,
so you line up at the first tee and get into
the game.
Or rather you would get into it only you
half-recognise a pair of players already
there. You eliminate Hagen and Kirkwood
and Popple well and Ivo Whitton and Brad-
man before at last you realise who they
really are. Well, you say, if it isn’t young
Snodgers out of Pink and Blankum’s mer-
cery, and young Grater out of Snoller’s iron-
mongery ! What a thrill it is just to follow
them, and find how accomplished they are
in the robust profanity of the game! What
a feeling “Oh, dear!” it is that acknowledges
the failure of the stick to connect with the
ball! What a shock to all our leading poli-
tical sopranos it would be to hear their
awfully naughty “Dash it!” as the ball
shoots over the tliree-inch high hedge and
runs along the concrete floor! Oh, and
how terribly disgusting to hear their “Tut,
tut!” as the ball bounces back from the
left .pylon of the knee-high Harbor Bridge,
or, going along a beautifully ironed fairway,
gets snookered behind a seven-inch high
replica of the pile of flowers spontaneously
given up over the footlights, on our opening
night, to the great imported star by the
wholly disinterested gentleman in the stalls
who had never set eyes on her before, and
wished to Heaven his firm could say the
same. Swearers! Good gracious, they are
shocking!
And, then; what an experience to see them
letting out their great shoulders in a tre-
mendous drive of anything up to so* — or
eight feet; and how sad to see them picking
up after Marksian efforts to get the hang
of an extinct volcano; and how heartening
again to see them smile, like ’ Mr. Allan
Wilkie Hamlet declaiming and counting the
school children at the same time, when the
ball goes fairly tossing and bouncing and
tittering clean through a hollow log! Here
one of them gets set, patterning his stance
on that of Fairfax preparing to score eight
runs in four days, and fairly slogs at
the doors of a castle nearly as big as a beer-
case. The ball goes cheekily through the
right-hand door of the three entrances to
the castle. Alas, it. is apparently not the
tradesmen’s entrance, and back bounces the
poor ball, snubbed and crestfallen. But
Grater is not beaten yet. Indeed, he has
three more similar shots before Snodgers
squeezes his arm just above the elbow and
says, “Oh, what bad luck, old boy! lam
two in the lead—l mean two up—am I not?”
and Grater says, “Yes, dear chap. But
please don’t speak of luck! My play is quite
atrocious.. Of course, if I had been able
to use a divot at the eighth.... But I don’t
“And so to business.”
wish to make
excuses. What
an enervating
day!”
And so they
go on —over
the fields of
billiard - cloth,
through tun-
-11 e 1 s and
broken walls,
over m o u n-
tains, around
cottages, past
the gum land-
scapes painted
on the walls,
until at last
„ i , , , , they can turn
and shake hands and stroll nonchalantly over
to the nineteenth and dissipate a shilling on
orange-soda.
Oh, Life, how big you are! Not to men-
tion the size of “Miget Golf.”
* * *
The show of last week in Melbourne was
provided by jDr. Earle Christmas Grafton
I age, vaudeville entertainer, at the Town
. ajt Placing the thumb of his left hand
in the armhole of lii s vest, raising his right
hand to a level with his head and opening
his mouth very wide, the versatile artist
caused the Australian tariff to dis-
appear. Leaping lightly on to the trapeze,
ne then hung head downward by the right
toot. Slowly raising his left leg, he
planed his left foot on his right kneecap,
and extending the fingers of both hands,
seized the National Debt between his teeth
and lifted it off the country’s chest
Jumping quickly to the ground, the
aitist then swiftly raised his right knee
to a level with his hip, grasped his
lett ear firmly between the thumb and
mdex finger of his right hand, and
with his left hand in his pocket balanced
six State Budgets and one Federal
Budget on his head. Without pausing for
breath, he then deftly sprang upon the tight
wire and standing upon one leg placed
both hands in his trousers pockets In that
position he nimbly doubled the factory out-
put, of the country while halving the cost,
while still on the wire he lowered him-
self on to his back, and grasping his right
foot in his left hand and his left foot in
his right covered Australia with flocks and
herds. _ Regaining the floor, he produced a
large, increase in the population and a rise
m the standard of living out of hi s hat.
I hat ended the programme, and the ushers
having wakened the reporters at the press
table the meeting adjourned.
Dr Page’s performance was good, but it
would have. been better still as a .silent turn.
His patter is of the poorest.
¥ ¥ ¥
“The Love Step,” staged at Melbourne
Comedy for the benefit of the Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Children, was
mainly a social affair, but it had some claims
to artistic interest, Mrs. Harold Clapp, wife
of the Railways Commissioner, taking the
blame for it. Mrs. Clapp has made a pro-
found study of the approved models. There
is nothing revolutionary like a new auto-
matic coupler or any of that sort of thing
in it. There is the usual cabaret, with a
number of people behaving elegantly, and a
slight love affair and a jealous French
woman, interrupted from time to time with
dance turns. There was a great opportunity
for Mrs. Clapp to write a revue depicting
the Railways Union demanding a 50 per cent,
cut in wages, while a chorus of season-ticket
holders plead melodiously for higher fares in
the background. Tableaux depicting the
Chief Railways Commissioner helping a
motor-’bus pirate to mend a puncture and
the Council of Churches asking for a full
service of trains on Sundays could be
included. But Mrs. Clapp avoided these
temptations and the coffers of the S.P.C.C.
no doubt profited accordingly.
“I Give and Bequeath,” a play by an
English and inconspicuous playwright,
formed the second production of the Aus-
tralian Comedy co. at Melbourne Bijou on
Saturday. Business opens as a promising
domestic comedy with the apparent intention
“Swearers! Good gracious, they are shock-
ing!”
id’ holding the Pharisaism of small-town
life up to mild ridicule, but after the entry
of D’Arcy Kelway, as the village idiot, it
suddenly decides to stock up with farce. It
then changes its mind, and with the arrival
of a blinded Gallipoli soldier groping about
his old home for his former sweetheart aud
his illegitimate child, it proceeds to lay in a
line of tragedy. Concluding that too much
tragedy would be bad for the audience, how-
ever, it thoughtfully turns itself into a mys-
tery play and ends more or less on that note,
h or those who are not fussy about dramatic
construction there is entertainment in the
show, some unexpectedly fine character-
drawing by Guy Hastings and George Bryant
and good music by Ernest Oram and his
orchestra of 12.
Allan Wilkie switched from “A School for
Scandal” to “She Stoops to Conquer” at Mel-
Princess on Wednesday, but returned
to the interesting “Governor Bligh” on Satur-
day. It is to be hoped that he will have
belter fortune with the Australian drama,
which is that phenomenon a play which
entertains and at the same time tickles
thought. Expressed in modern terms, Miss
Jones’s Bligh is the first exponent in Aus-
tralia of State Socialism.
He is Mr. Hogan moratorium to
the Mallee, or fixing the price of bread, or
starting a wheat pool. When the flood-
smitten settlers of the Hawkesbury petition
him for assistance to tide them over the bad
times he issues orders on the Government
stores. Naturally this annoys the merchants
of Sydney, grain having risen in price from
7s. 6d. to 30s. and they holding the mono-
poly. Macarthur is spokesman of the com-
mercial interests. He is the representative of
unrestricted private enterprise. Naturally
he is able to identify his personal interests
with the good of the Commonwealth. Also
he is no more fussy about allies than
the parsons when they want to prevent the
introduction of the tote nowadays. He finds
them in the Rum Corps, the military
oligarchy which bosses the settlement and
debauches it with its booze monopoly. They
revolt and invade Governor Bligh’s resi-
dence.
They don’t find that gentleman under a
bed, as tradition has it, but ready in the
person of Allan Wilkie and an admiral’s
uniform to deliver an oration appropriate
to the occasion. In the last act the amiable
old autocrat is seen imprisoned in his guber-
natorial dwelling, while sundry subsidiary
love themes bill and coo to a conclusion
around him. In the last scene, Shakspcarean
in its inspiration and its indifference to his-
torical veracity, Governor Macquarie arrives
in Sydney, shakes Bligh by the hand (though
he was in Tasmania at the moment), and
hands him the King’s vindication, accom-
panying it with the admiralship which he
received a year later in England. These
discrepancies are not only excusable; they
are obligatory on a dramatist who has to
squeeze several years into two hours and a
half, and a
settlement of
10,000 people
into a cast of
20 characters.
Miss Jones's
play adds a
new dignity to
the Australian
stage. No
country can be
said to have
quite grown
up u n le s s
some of its
p 1 a y w rights
busy them-
selves with its
great historic
themes. Miss
.Tones’s revalu-
ation of early
N. S. Wales
history may
not be very
profound, but
it has set
even Profes-
“Chalk your cue before
trying a screw shot.”
sor Ernest Scott, writing to the papers
in defence of his own views, and that is a
feat no other local dramatist has equalled.
What Miss Jones has succeeded in doing with
uncommon astuteness is to provide an uncom-
monly good evening’s entertainment while
keeping the large issues consistently in view.
Prof. Scott is annoyed with Miss Jones for
representing Macarthur as a villain of the
deepest dye, but he is guilty of another form
of sentimentality in advancing in Macarthur’s
favor that in his home circle he was a
“particularly tender-hearted, affectionate
man.” A man may be as affectionate to his
family as you like and at the same time be
an anti-social force outside. It isn’t usually
denied that Macarthur used legal subterfuge
and extra-legal violence for his own selfish
ends. If the Hawkesbury settlers had been
left to the tender hearts of the Sydney mer-
chants, it seems highly probable that they
would have been completely ruined and the
colony badly injured. Bligh may have been a
bad-tempered old seadog, but he was clear-
sighted enough to see through the humbug
of his adversary’s stand for the liberty of
the subject to drink or starve himself to
death and other shibboleths.
Wilkie’s Bligh is good stuff histrionically.
It is a sharp bit of characterisation. There
are few loose ends and only one weak cur-
tain in the piece. Ronald Riley’s Captain
Macarthur is aggressively villainous accord-
ing to the playwright’s prescription. The
Major Johnston of John Cairns is the weak-
willed, well-meaning Rum-Corps Brutus of
history. Miss Hunter-Watts’s French adven-
turess is all overacting, and.is an infliction.
The rest are adequate, the staging excellent
and the production full of vigor.
# * #
On Saturday at the Proscenium Club the
Student Theatre Society, of Melbourne, in-
dulged in that orgy of elocution known as
“Arms and the Man.” which is not the most
bearable of G. B. Shaw’s plays. The out-
standing feature of the performance was the
uncanni 7 skill with which the cast manoeuvred
on the small .stage without treading on each
other’s toes. Most of the men were in uni-
form, but their voices lacked martial pomp.
As the Chocolate Soldier Clarence Last
turned out the smartest. The piece was
well produced by Lucy Ahon.
# ¥ ¥
Wireless enthusiasts have lately crowded
the basement of the Town Hall, Melbourne,
where the amateurs of the ether have been
holding an exhibition. The feats that these
suburban magicians lay claim to leave Mun-
chausen looking like an unimaginative old
dodderer. Here is one gentleman who states
that he has conversed with 23 countries
“and all continents” on a set which looks
expensive at five shillings. To prove it he
has an array of scalps in the shape of post-
cards from stations with which he has been
in communication. Here is another who has
won a test by logging 23 American stations
in May, 1923.
Anyone in search of a nice bright little
comedy, brightly acted and well produced,
“Things the uncultured birds laugh at.”
will find the goods at St. James’s Hall,
Sydney. The piece is Noel Coward’s “The
Marquise,” the delightfully told story of a
lady of the eighteenth century who meets
her first lover in Madrid and leaves him and
their son for altruistic reasons ; then, about
two years later, meets a second lover in
Paris and soon leaves him and their daughter
because, as before, she thinks it is for the
best that she should do so ; and then steps
into the picture again on the eve of the
betrothal of her own two children.
That plot is most delicately handled; the
piece as a whole is an excellent example of
how fascinating thin-ice skating can be when
it is brilliantly done. Judging on general
form, the odds would be 20 to 1 on an ama-
teur crowd making a hash of it; converting
the wit into buffoonery, the delicacy into
vulgarity. The Independents make it alto-
gether charming, chiefly owing to Alathea
Siddons’s understanding of the lady of the
past loves. She has the appearance, the
voice, the manner. She is quite obviously
the sort of person that two men mivht have
fallen in love with, and who might have left
them; and she gives the illusion that these
things happened. A little trilling at times,
perhaps; a shade too ethereal; but that is
noted chiefly in the scene in which her old
lovers attempt to fight a duel —an artificial,
if not a farcical, situation that would be
considerably more in tone if the rapiers
were never produced. The weapons are
merely a concession to a supposed taste for
histrionic fireworks. The old lovers are very
well done by Clive Coppard and Hawdou
Wilson ; neat character studies both of them.
Grace Hart, as the daughter, is effective in
the opening scenes, though she has to step
down rather abruptly when the Marquise
appears. Richard Parry is badly cast as
the extra lover of the daughter ; but the
rest manage well enough. Perhaps the
secret of the general success lies in the
fact that the little party declines to regard
the comedy as anything else but a comedy ,
declines to intrude realism into its romance.
Most amateurs cannot refrain from attempt-
ing realism in all circumstances, which is
mainly why so many amateur productions
of comedy are such dismal washouts.
* * #
The Ly n ton -S te war ts continue to give good
acting value for the money at Sydney Opera
House, though the choice of fare might con-
ceivably be better. No one could complain
of short weight, for in addition to
the usual full-length offerings—the co.
regularly presents a one-acter, which, on the
couple of occasions this Showman has looked
in, was the best section of the bill. Naneye
Stewart manages some tip-top performances
at times, and Lynton is robust enough to
carry the other end of the- log comfortably.
“Sons o’ Guns,” the latest J.O.W. import,
will have its Australian premiere at Sydney
Majesty’s on Saturday night. The first-
rate musicomedy co. includes Gus Bluett,
Cecil Kellaway, Elsie Prince and Bertha
Riccardo, who has returned from abroad to
be the heroine of the piece. Another pend-
ing change is from “Pot Luck” to “Happy
“And dissipate a ‘shilling on orange-soda.”
Days” at the St. James. Four More Famous
Artists, as the ad. has ’em, will assist Frith,
Mo, St. Clair, Crane and the rest of the
“Pot Duck” good ones to make promoter
Hugh D. Mclntosh’s pocket heavier than
ever.
* ¥ #
Dr. Cyril Jenkins, the British com-
poser, is likely to be gratefully remembered
in Melbourne. In passing through the
other day he expressed himself as amazed
at the quality of the programmes given by
Fritz Hart and his orchestra at the open-
air concerts in the Botanical Gardens last
season. Some of Jenkins’s works will be
rendered at the choir contests in Ballarat
shortly.


Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST. f REDFERN, N.S.W.
gfd
g
fdg
WATER FILTRATION
For manufacturing purposes clear water is
essential. The “SWIRL” FILTER gives
a large output and is specially suitable for
Ice Works, Butter Factories, Laundries, etc.
Also Sole Manufacturers of the well-known
“Abbot” Germ-proof Filters, pressure or
crockery, for household use, Cordial
Factories, etc.
Catalogues on Application.
Guthridge Limited
Sole Manufacturers
10-12 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN, N.S.W.
INSURE WITH THE
X
Mercantile Mutual
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Company—
Established 1878.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centra.
the WILDCAL
COUMN
The Myer Emporium, Ltd.
, —Dividends—^
Profs. Ords.f Towards
Julv Profits. 9 p.e. 20 p.c. Reserves. Deficit.
,e f £ £ £
1926*.. 436,099 290,715 145,384 104,616
Share premiums, £86,250.. .. 18,366
9 p.c. 171 p.c. Reserves.
1927 .. 328,480 300,916 27,564 9,198
9 p.c. 14 p.c.
1928 . . 275,263 254,877 20,386 29,584
p p p.c.
1929 . . 265,535 236,159 29,376 58,960
Share premiums, etc., £95,000 . . 153,960
9 p.c. 8 p.c.
1930 . . 244,505 192,382 52,123 206,083
*lB months. tlncludingf employees’ shares.
The function of the retailer is that of buy-
ing agent for the community he serves. His
success or otherwise depends largely upon
whether he buys the right type and quality
of goods at the right price. This, an ambi-
tious management and a long period of rising
prices and free spending help to explain the
quick development of the Myer organisation
and the attractive results won in former
years. . . _ ,
Ten years ago public interest was confined
to 120,000 prefs. The present (to. emerged from
the reconstruction in 1925,/Since when the
ords. have been listed, two other businesses
.swallowed, large additions made to premises
and activities extended to Adelaide. It all
involved the outlay of a lot of interest-bear-
ing money, some of which has not yet yielded
the co. any direct return. Because of this
and the growth in competition, which has
narrowed profit margins, there has been a
steep decline in earning power over the last
four years. The outlook has now changed
completely, owing to economic developments.
However, the energetic management was
able to push last year’s turnover to within
one-half of 1 p.c. of the previous year’s, not-
withstanding that the general shrinkage in
incomes forced adjustments in spending.
But the downward trend of prices made a
quick clearance of stocks essential, so cuts
had to be made, especially in seasonal lines.
After providing for contingencies, the net
takings were figured to be £21,030 short of
the previous year’s. Allowing for the pref.
and staff-partnership requirements (together,
£05,895), there was enough to show 10.9
p.c. on average ord. capital compared with
14.6, 15.5 and 19.5 p.c. back to 1927. The
div., which dropped from 17+ p.c. in 1927
to 1.2+ p.c. in 1929, fell back to 8 p.c., the
final being at the rate of 6 p.c. p.a.
During the year £364,871 of fresh capital
was gathered, and it brought with it £95,000
of share premiums. Thus paid capital be-
came £2.454,337 in 612,150 9 p.c. cum. prefs.,
142,800 staff-partnership shares and 1,726,000
ords. at June 30; there was £25,612 still
to come. The new money enabled the board
to return £345,308 of deposits, reducing the
item to £78,865, snip £23,900 off the mort-
gage and £17,084 off the amount coming to
sundry creditors, thus lightening the interest
charge and greatly improving the financial
position, as the next comparison shows:
1926. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital . . £1,676,978 £2,089,466 £2,454,338
Mortgages. . . . 531,014 726,200 702,300
Sundry creditors . . 588,451 695,582 333,191
Freeholds, lease-
holds, etc. . . 1,266,536 1,647,836 1,736,066
Plant, vehicles, etc. 171,925 194,305 190,205
Shares in other cos. 180,997 485,997 485,997
Stocks . , . . 962,486 1,052,294 1,079,886
Debtors .. . . 233,105 300,262 281,006
Cash, etc... .. 8,094 20,155 12,579
Stocks are the danger-spot. Including them,
the more or less liquid surplus was £337,980
at June 30 as against an excess of £49,071
of liabilities over more or less liquids a year
earlier. The new eleven-floor extension to
the Lonsdale-street warehouse added £88,230
to the book value of freeholds. The reduc-
tion in book debts was on account of goods
supplied to the Adelaide business. This
used to be James Marshall and ,Co.; Myers
bought all the 200,000 £1 ords. for 30s. each
in 1928, and changed the name to Myer
Emporium (S.A;), Ltd. For the 12 months
to July 30 the S.A. co netted over £50,000,
of which the prefs. called. for £25,000; no
div. has yet been paid on the ords.
The restriction of imports will liven
the output of the co.’s local workrooms and
factories, and that should help. The co.
bought the Ballarat Woollen Mills in 1918,
and they have won a market for their pro-
ducts in other States. However, the trend
of prices is downward, stocks are large, the
prop for capital slender, hungry Govern-
ments have added fresh handicaps to old
ones, and the burdens are to be yet further
increased. All this, the weakness in the
sharemarket and doubt as to the future have
sent the price of the ords. toppling from
355. a year ago to 15s. 6d. at last week-end.
At the lower figure the return is 7.7 p.c.
on a 6 p.c. div. basis; the backing is 225. 4d.
in net tangibles. At 21s. 6d. the prefs. yield
8.4 p.c. Last year’s profit was over 3| times
their annual requirements, and they were
covered bv net tangibles with a book value
of £3 11s.
Australian Estates and Mortgage Co.
Dividends. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Ord. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 49,134 5 p.c. = 47,131 2,003 105,327
1920. . 48,889 5 „ „ 47.154 1,735 107,062
1921.. 71,847 5 „ ~47,159 24,688 131,750
1922.. 93,463 6 „ ~ 56,660 36,803 168,553
1923.. 80,503 6 ~ „ 56,665 23,838 192,391
1924.. 211,902 10 „ „ 95,515 ( q , 007 oco 77a
Staff fund, £25,000 . . ) 91 ’ 387 283,778
1925.. 104,648 6 p.c. = 57,713 { 4l 93,3 325,713
Staff fund, £5OOO . . j
, Dividends s,
Pref.
Loss. 61 p.c. Ord.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 61,547 623 4 p.c. = 38,476 225,067
Profits.
1927.. 58,056 29,740 4 „ „ 38,476 214,907
1928.. 103,051 32,500 5 „ „ 48,094 i. 2 32 364
Staff fund, £5OOO . . • • )
Loss.
1929.. 72,009 32,500 Nil 127,855
This co. has been in the squatting busi-
ness for the last 86 years. It was formed
as a subsidiary of the Union Mortgage and
Agency Co. in 1594, taking over all that
co.’s properties, which extended throughout
Queensland and N. S. Wales; five years
later it swallowed the rest of the parent s
business. But it was not until 1909, when
40 p.c. of the pref. and 85 p.c. of the ord.
capital was written off, and the old floating
debt had been wiped out, that book values
were got back to something approaching their
actual worth. After that the business began
to make headway. , . . .
The eo. also has considerable interests m
the sugar-growing industry, and has been
engaged on the broking side of the wool
business ever since its inception. _ Last
year it handled 77,481 bales. Capricious
seasons have been mainly for
the irregularity of earnings and distributions.
However, divs. were kept down, more being
put aside than was distributed, and in 1914
£313,933 of the capital jettisoned 10 years
earlier was restored. During the years
to 1925 bumper clips and high prices sent
profits soaring above the average; they
reached 22.2 p.c. on capital in 1924.
During the four years to the close ot last
accounts earnings have been severely affected
by drought, though a couple of windfalls
from Bawra have helped to ease the strain.
In the disastrous 1926 term, when the clip
from the co.’s properties fell from 20,4(0 to
14,935 bales, the direct cost of fighting the
drought amounted to £145,000. But last
vear, when wool prices flopped, a heavier
trading loss (£72,009, after paying deben-
ture interest) showed up. And that was
after hidden reserves, built up in prosper-
ous years, had been tapped for an undis-
closed amount. Drought expenditure last
year is stated at £186,000. Over the past
four years this bugbear is said to have cost
the co. £716,000 one way and another. These
protective measures, though costly, have en-
sured satisfactory lambings, and last year
the mortality over the whole of the flocks
was only about 8 p.c. Owing to fair lamb-
ing during the last two years the co. is now
well on the way to making good the heavy
wastage of the two preceding years. At
balance-day the co.’s sheep tallied around
650,000. ' ... . . ~ .
The financial position is comfortable. —
1909. 1923. 1928. 1929.
Pref. capital 500,000 500,000
0l capital.. 412,915 944,329 961,889 961,889
1,443,185 1,881,181 1,856,952 1,839,860
ot bflities lla . 154,189 544,842 478,850 674,640
Properties,
plant,°etc. 2,392,567. 1,596,783 1,994,497 1,879,959
M ‘debtors?etc. 357,730 686,859 1,218,380 1,339 426
Stocks, etc. 29,513 66,290 101,297 183,802
Shares in
other cos., ( iqc 228
e^c ‘ , \ 200,820 967,981 716,315 548 257
Investments ) on lnl 1
Cash, etc... 75,309 301,494 80,191 16,593
Including Government securities, but leav-
ing out shares in other cos. and livestock, the
more or . less, liqmfc <£MBB,p) osooeded
the floating aebt (£674,640) by £1,413,488.
The £1,839,860 of debenture stock is irre-
deemable, except at the co.’s option. It is
costing the co. on the average only a wink
over 44 p.c. In 1926 half a million of 6|
pc. pref capital was gathered, raising paid
capital to its present figure The grouping
of properties and livestock (£l,B<9,JoJ)
clouds the position, but it is obvious that
the long-headed management has aimed at
building up strength in good times to onset.,
as far as possible, the inevitable lean years.
Seasonal outlook for the current term is
favorable. . .
The scrip, mainly held m London, is not
listed on Australian ’Changes.
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Ltd. (Sydney).
Reserves
Transferred
June Profits. Dividends. to Capital. Reserves.
£££ & _
1920.. 33,970 124 p.c. =16,27)0 20,000 65,110
1921.. 15,310 10 „ „ 11,989 6._>,439
1922.. 30,154 10 „,, 14,995 10.000 65,596
iq9q 40 835 10 . ~ 10,500 15,000 ,4,9.'U
1924" 40 923 10 , 18,000 20,000 77,853
19,5 ' ti’iso 10 20,000 20,000 79.033
1926 .' 43,600 10 „„, 22,000 20,000 80.633
1927.. 54,141 10 „ „ 24,000 15,000 ( g 5j 774
Taxation Reserve, £10,000.. „
1928.. 49,153 10 p.c. = 25,500 20,000 89,427
1929.. 57,453 10 „ ~ 27,500 15,000 10L380
1930.. 36,909 74 „ „ 21,740 119,549
Turnover was about £1,800,000 lighter than
the previous year’s, due to the collapse ot
prices in the wool, stock and produce mar-
kets. This is reflected in the accounts by
a sharp drop of £47,809 in gross profits
(£125,614, including £10,210 interest on
fixed deposits, etc.). A small windfall from
Bawra, included in the 1929 figures, accen-
tuated the decline. Exes. (£BS,<oo) were
got back £27,265, but no allowance was made
for taxation, whereas £13,000 was so set
aside in the previous year. Thus the net
contraction was £20,544, and the final figure
dropped to 12.7 p.c. on average capital com-
pared with 20.9. 19.3, 22.5, 19.8 and 20.5
p.c. back to 1925, when wool averaged i,»4
18s. lid. per bale in Sydney as against £l6
11s. 9d. last year and £2l 17s. od. the year
before. The div., which had been at 10 p.c.
since 1907, with a bit extra in the fat years,
was reduced to p.c., and for the lirst time
in the last nine years a halt was calledl in the
capitalisation of surplus earnings. Of the
£290,000 of paid capital £235,000 has been
provided by the issue of gift scrip over ihe
last 20 years.
The remarkable success of the business
has been due to a number of things. One
is that, on the whole, N. S. Wales has en-
joyed a long run of good seasons, and wool,
livestock and produce have, until recently,
fetched high, prices. A recovery to former
price levels, and therefore earning power, is
generally acknowledged to be out of the ques-
tion. Hence profit-writing will depend
largely on the extent to which costs can be
got more into line with fallen values; and
the taxgatherer threatens to make oft with
much of whatever may be gained in this
way. So the market makes allowance tor
discontinuance of the bonus issues, ahd
other things, by pricing the pound shares
at par or thereabouts as against 45s a year
ago; and that notwithstanding that the
latest figures suggest that perhaps a bit
better than 74 p.c. may not prove beyond
the co.’s reach when things become more
settled. The visible hacking amounts to
28s. 3d. in net tangibles.
The snug position of the finances and the
way in which the business has developed over
the last decade are reflected in this next com-
parison of balance-sheet figures :
1920. 1925. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital. . £130,000 £200,000 £275,000 £290,000
Overdrafts . . 5,912 325,057 161,857 769
Other liabilities 43,258 34,632 24,880 85,253
Freeholds, etc. 125,092 149,286 161,913 162,758
Advances, etc. 98,943 378,186 243,205 141,058
Liquid assets 5!0',000 141,250 202,750 202,620
Despite the heavy shrinkage in pastoral in-
comes clients were able to repay
of advances last year. This and £60,3 1 >
tacked on to the amount coming to sundry
creditors enabled the board to practically
wipe out the overdraft. The more or less
liquid surplus (£257,661) was only £1557
lighter than at the previous balance, ihe
large amount held on fixed deposit
(£202.625) was undisturbed; it was equal
to 13s. lid. per share. Thus the co. is in
the fortunate position of being able to return
two-thirds of the capital should the necessity
arise, and is obviously well equipped to take
advantage of any improvement in trading
conditions.
Sales of produce and livestock, especially
the latter, still account for a large part of
the earnings, but a lot of attention has
recently been given to the pastoral finance
side of the business.
Strand and Pitt-street Properties, Ltd.
Circumstances have been unkind to this
Sydney co. A year or so ago it bought the
freehold comprising the eastern side of the
Strand Arcade and with frontages to Pitt
and King streets as a letting proposition.
The price was £770,000—£150.000 cash and
the balance on mortgage at 6J p.c. for 25
years The vendors were Stewart Dawson
Strand Properties. Ltd., and Stewart Daw-
son Pitt-street Properties, Ltd. The public
was offered 175,000 £1 shares, which were
underwritten by the Australian Investment
Trust at Is. per share. Also the Trust Co.
was to get £5500 for negotiating the deal and
guaranteeing the cash payment to the
vendors.
When the property was taken over the
rent roll totalled £76,076, and another
£11,950 was counted upon. But within six
weeks a fire occurred, which damaged a con-
siderable portion of the premises. The Civic
Commissioners, acting under an old city
ordnance, insisted upon reconstruction of
the damaged portion, which included the
costly section occupied by Ambassadors, Ltd.
The co. had no funds of its own with which
to finance new building operations, and
market conditions were distinctly unfavor-
able for raising fresh capital; so the civic
authorities consented to reinstatement of the
property—the work is now nearing comple-
tion —on the co. entering into a bond to
rebuild within a specified time. Exactly
what this amounts to is not mentioned in the
report. But the inevitable delay in connec-
tion with the whole matter covered about
48 weeks to June 30; this was a greater
contingency than the co.’s insurance con-
tract provided for, and involved a loss of
£9BBl in rentals. At the same time trade
depression and inconvenience caused by re-
construction brought a flood of applications
from tenants for reduced rentals, and reduc-
tions exceeding £6OOO per annum were
granted. One result of all this was that
gross rents for the 15 months to June 30
fell back to £66,037 (= £52.828 p.a.). Exes,
made off with £73,710; so the net result was
a loss of £7673. In addition £14,240 of
preliminary exes, was capitalised, raising the
intangibles to £21,913.
Also legal difficulties prevented the under-
writers completing their contract. Hence
only 158,692 shares had been issued at the
close of accounts; on these £152,930 had
been paid. Owing to this short subscription
£25,000 of the vendor’s cash consideration
(due June 17) remains unpaid—the matter
is at present the subject of negotiations with
the mortgagees. Thus mortgages figure at
£645,000 instead of £620,000 as originally
arranged. Including £1498 of accrued in-
terest, the amount coming to sundry creditors
was £16,550. To meet this there was £14,915
in cash (£8910) and book debts (£6005).
Prepayments amounted to £671; and the
property appeared at £776,981. Thus share-
holders could see net tangible assets with
a book value of 17s. 2d. to represent each
pound of paid capital at June 30.
Though the property is situated in one of
the most valuable blocks in Sydney, its
worth to the co. as a going concern depends
upon what it can be made to earn. In this
respect the chairman says the outlook for
satisfactory rentals is most unfavorable,
unless fresh funds are made available for
improvements. To coax capital at the
moment the co. would probably have to offer
terms more attractive than it can afford;
and the trend of real estate and rental values
is still dowmvards. Until conditions become
more settled, and the terms of the bond to
the Civic authorities are made known, the
co.’s exact position remains obscure.
Hume Pipe Co. (Australia), Ltd.
Towards
June Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
110,827
Surplus assets transferred 11,978 98,849
Profit prior to incorporation 1,362 97,48/
1921.. 19,986 5 p.c. = 12,094 7,892 89,595
Additional goodwill items, £1214 . . 90,809
Vendors’ adjustment, £Bl4 . . 91,623
1922.. 48,788 8 p.c. = 28,800 19,988 71,635
Additional goodwill items, £3681 .. 70,316
New share costs, £9471 •• •• 84,<87
Flotation consideration (Singa-
pore Co.) 10,000 74,78/
1923.. 53,977 10 p.c. = 43,375 10,602 64,180
Loss on Oobdogla plant, £23,583 . . 6/,768
. N.Z. establishment exes., £2038 . . 89,806
1924.. 17,556 Nil 17,556 72,250
Additional goodwill, £390 . . 72,640
1925.. 42,961 7 p.c. = 35,000 7,961 64,679
Addition goodwill, £257 • • 64,936
1926.. 40,209 8 p.c. = 40,000 209 64,/2/
Additional goodwill, £l2O . . 64,84/
1927 47.884 8 p.c. = 40,000 7,884 56,963
1928.. 53,229 8 „ ~ 40,000 13,229 43,734
Shares in other cos. written up,
£76,455; added assets fluctuation
reserve, £31,455 .. •• 12,2/9
Reserves.
•1999 54 996 8 p.c. = 40,000 14,996 2,717
1930. . 54,565 6„ „ 30,000 . 24,565 27,282
After providing for depreciation and taxa-
tion, the net result was 10.9 p.c. on the half-
million of capital compared with 11, 10.6,
9.5, 8 and 8.5 p.c. back to 1925. But
owing to the change in the outlook the final
div. was cut in halves, making 6 p.c. for the
year; the average over the last decade is
6.8 p.c. Reserves £27,282 in excess of the-
£6B,ooo at which patents figure in the books
had accumulated at June 30. In addition
there was a plant depreciation reserve, un-
changed at £50,000, and £45,726, to which
£11,844 was added during the year, ear-
marked for taxation and contingencies How-
ever, too much notice need not be taken ot
these paper accumulations. What matters
more is the state of the co.’s finances, pros-
pects of employment for the chief earning
asset (the plant) and the outlook for the
subsidiary interests.
(Continued on next page.)


Watch Your
1
These are days when a man
may lose the savings of a life-
time.
These are days when a man
may lay the foundations of a
fortune.
The thing is to know. “The
‘Wild Cat* Monthly” has im-
mense data at its disposal and
a staff of specially trained in-
vestigators and accountants.
It will help you to save losses
and make gains.
OCTOBER NUMBER ON SALE
OCTOBER 4.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-;
PEE ANNUM, 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Patents.— Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Exchange
Arranged. Geo. E. Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria
Buildings, Corner Collins and Swanston Streets, Mel-
bourne.— Advt.
jJc i[i jJs
Experienced engineers throughout Australia pay
tribute to the outstanding efficiency and definite
economy of Pioneer Wood Pipe. The durability of
this excellent conduit ensures long years of service
—its strength and non-corrosive qualities ensure
trouble-free operation, whilst its low cost, ease of
handling, simplicity of laying and absence of upkeep
costs ensures the greatest economy. Full particulars
free on request to The Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane
Cove, N.S.W. ; and at Footscray, Victoria.— Advt.
* * * H*
Timmsville Timber Co., Ltd., Ulong, Dorrigo
District (N.S.W.), invites inquiries for select North
Coast mountain hard and soft woods, wholesale and
export lots. Steady supplies, graded, in sap or kiln-
dried. Electrical installation. Write or ’phone
direct, or to Sydney Office, 46 Trafalgar Street,
Annandale. — Advt.
* * * *
BisMtmf.—We are buyers of Bismuth Concentrates
in any quantity. Write, giving particulars of
quantity available, and send samples to Elliott
Brothers, Limited, Box 494 AA, G.P.0., Sydney.
—Advt.
* ❖ ❖ • Hi
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
catibns for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South AVales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, ‘Moree. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament, 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
PIONEER BELTING-GUARANTEED
LONG-LIFE SERVICE
One hour’s delay in your plant may destroy that margin of profit on a hard won
order. That is why good leather belting—Pioneer Belting—is the best and
safest investment you can make in guaranteed, uninterrupted transmission service.
There are more Pioneer Belts in use in Australia than any other make. I£
has to be good to hold this position of supremacy.
“LEATHER LASTS LONGEST.”
LEATHER
BELTING
THE LEADER SINCE 1858
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY (Our only City Address).
NOTE: Tliis, the original Company, founded in 1858, is in no way con-
I'cf'trd with -mother belting company with a similar surname
Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greater
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner, a
la carte from 1/6. Inclusive winter tariff from
13/6 per day; £3/13/6 weekly. Special quotations
for sporting bodies, etc. Situated right opposite
Spencer Street Station, no taxi fares; railway porter
carries baggage across if necessary. Please write
for detailed tariff card. Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne,
is sufficient address.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances:—
1921. 1929 1930.
Paid capital .. .. £322,515 £500,000 £500,009
Liabilities .. .. 112,443 30,631 49,996
Freeholds . . .. 38,838 54,317 60,783
Buildings, plant, etc. .. 92,478 185,268 224,373
Stocks 80,187 70,604 91,765
Uncompleted work .. 39,132 3,047 2,987
Book debts .. .. 47,771 93,681 101,645
L °an 35,878 28,838
Cash, etc 17,178 87,831 44,471
Shares in other cos. .. 46,825 124,644 128,144
Government securities, cash and money at
call alone were £23,313 in excess of the debt
at June 30. The more or less liquid sur-
plus (£219,710, including stocks but exclud-
ing shares) was £40,700 lighter than at the
previous balance. The shrinkage was due
mainly to the outlay on plant. Competition
having forced a reduction of selling prices,
lower costs became an urgent necessity; so
seven new mobile plants were equipped and
other improvements made during the year.
Earnings for the Hume cos., and others in
the pipe business, depend largely upon Gov-
ernment contracts. The various Australian
Governments have cut down their works pro-
grammes from 40 to 15 millions for the cur-
rent financial year, so it looks as if con-
tracts will be difficult to get at any price.
Also the tightening of money is certain to
restrict the volume of private orders.
Further, subsidiary interests are likely to
be affected by the unfavorable conditions
which have developed in other countries.
The Singapore Co., thus far the most success-
ful one of the Hume family, netted 30.1 p.c.
on its capital last year, and paid a 15 p.c.
div. The parent holds 10,000 of the ords.
But the fall in the revenue of the Malayan
Government following the collapse of prices
in the rubber and tin markets threatens to
affect the co.’s earnings. In the H'ume Steel
Co. the parent holds 165,000 ords., which
cost £416. After allowing for participating
pref. rights (15 p.c.), this offshoot netted
5.7 p.c. on its ord. capital last year, but no
div. was paid. In 1928 the Steel Co. sold its
foreign rights to a subsidiary for a round
half-million in ords. Recently the subsidiary
succeeded in placing the rights for S. Africa,
British Columbia, and the United States
territory west of the Mississippi. Much will
depend upon how things turn ouc in connec-
tion with these and any other foreign rights
the pup may place.
The market has never had much affection
for the scrip. The pound shares, which
fetched 21s. 2d. a year ago, are now priced
at 11s. The return at the lower figure is
9.1 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis.
Broken Hill South, Ltd.
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
1919 .. 344,113 15 p.c. = 120,000 614,204
1920 .. 2,766 Nil 616,970
Loss.
1921 .. 48,551 Nil 568,419
Profit.
1922 .. 296,060 Nil 864,479
1923 .. 354,232 35 p.c. = 280,000 938,711
1924 .. 497,633 35 „ „ 280,000 1,156,344
1925 .. 521.590 60 „ „ 400,000 1,277,934
1926 . . 512.249 65 „ ~ 520,000 1,270,183
1927 .. 355,207 45 „ „ 360,000 1,265,390
1928 .. 233,855 22.5„ „ 180,000 1,319,245
1929 .. 388,997 22.5„ „ 180,000 1,528,242
1930 .. 316,936 32.5„ „ 260,000 1,585,178
Profits follow metal prices and need to be
considered in conjunction with these figures:
, Average Price x
5 Years 12 Months 12 Months
June, June, June, Price,
1929. 1929. 1930. 27/9/’3O.
Lead. . £2B/8/- £22/13/6 £2O/19/6 £l7/13/9
Silver 2/6.9 2/4.2 1/10.9 1/4.7
Zinc.. 30/17/1 25/14/9 20/15/5 15/5/- ’
Last year the recession in average prices was
£1 l4s. lead, 5.3 d. silver and £4 19s. 4d.
spelter. Barrier cos., however, have been
little affected by falls below £3O in the price
of spelter, because of their contract for the
sale of zinc concentrates to the British Gov-
ernment. But this cpntract ran out on June
30 and is not being renewed. For the dozen
years or thereabouts of its currency the total
loss to the British Government is reported
to be about £6,000,000; a handsome subsidy,
which has provided some nice bonuses to
shareholder’s.
It ivas the drop in the price of lead and
silver that was responsible for the slip of
£101,847 in last year’s sales plus products
on hand (£857,081). So, despite bigger
production, better recoveries and improved
mining and treatment costs, the board figured
that the net profit from mine products was
£75,764 short of the previous year’s at
£175,062. About one-third of that amount
was derived from the sale of zinc concen-
trates. The net return from investments
was £107,207; thus the final profit claimed
was £282,269, or 7s. per share, of which
6s. 6d. was distributed.
The difference between profits claimed and
those shown in the table represent unex-
plained additions to reserves. These, how-
ever, are seldom all they look in a mining
co.’s sheet. A more reliable idea of (1) the
net excess of incomings over outgoings and
(2) of surplus assets is gained from the
following figures:—
1923. 1929. 1930.
Assets other than
mine and plant £1,091,197 £1,517,181 £1,506,730
Liabilities.. .. 200,405 152,122 132,016
Excess assets .. £890,792 £1,365,059 £1,374,714
At June 30 the more or less liquid surplus
was 345. 4d. per share. Thus shareholders,
m addition to receiving 545. 6d. a share in
aivs., were visibly 12s. Id. a share better
off than they were at the close of accounts
of 1923. But a repetition of the events of
the last seven years need not be looked for.
Half the profit from mining came from the
treatment of old slime dumps in 1923. As
these became exhausted the production of
crudes was quickened, and recoveries improved
and costs benefited :
1923. 1929. 1930.
Crudes raised. .203,659 tons 319,323 tons 337,242 tons
Extraction .. 255. 11.3 d. 245. 2.8 d. 225. 4.3 d.
Development .. 2s. 10.Od. 2s. 9.8 d. 2s. 11.6 d.
Treatment .. Bs. 0.3 d. ss. 11.2 d. ss. 7.8 d.
Cost per ton .. 365. 9.6 d. 325. 11.8 d. 30s. 11.7 d.
Last year’s crudes assayed 14.6 p.c. lead,
5.30 z. silver and 11.2 p.c. zinc, about the
same as for the previous year.
The next comparison shows the quantity
of metal contained in the concentrates and
the percentage recovery :
Lead. Silver. Zinc.
1925 1 31,063 tons. 1,015,6940 z. 34,176 tons.
I 87.1 p.c. 78.5 p.c. 75.4 p.c.
1927 J 37,054 tons. 1,299,0050 z. 40,522 tons.
I 90.4 p.c. 80.6 p.c. 77.7 p.c.
1929 f 42,647 tons. 1,622,5080 z. 29,999 tons.
1 93.8 p.c. 90.5 p.c. 82.2 p.c.
iqpo j 46,562 tons. 1,636,7120 z. 31,509 tons.
1 94.8 p.c. 90.8 p.c. 83.1 p.c.
That is disregarding the zinc in the lead
concentrates and the silver and lead in the
zinc concentrates. The marked improvement
in recoveries is heartening.
Balance-sheet figures compare as follows:
1923. 1929. 1930.
Debentures ~ ..£101,200 £19,100 £5,500
Other liabilities .. 99,205 133,022 132,016
Mine account .. .. 84,240 84,758 85,046
Plant, etc 771,434 932,412 989,586
Shares in other cos. .. 454,770 463,970 706,439
Public securities .. 10,000 10,000 10,000
Stocks and stores .. 436,273 351,716 491,731
Book debts .. .. 19,547 15,561 5,935
Cash .. . . . . 170,606 675,934 292,625
The extra £242,469 invested in other cos.
last year was well scattered. It includes
£28,448 in Western N. S. Wales Electric
Power Pty., Ltd., the co. which is to operate
the central power plant at the Barrier, por-
tion of which is expected to be working
before the close of next accounts. The recon-
struction of the gravity mill is nearing com-
pletion, and the new No. 7 shaft has been
timbered to below the 1070 ft. level.
Though a contract for the supply of zinc
concentrates to the Electrolytic Zinc Co.
(Hobart) and Imperial Smelting Corp.
(ILK.) is being prepared, their production
ceased early in August, owing to the low
price of the metal and the large supplies
available. Prospects of a recovery in metal
prices are not bright; also lighter returns
from investments can be expected. Much will
depend upon the extent, if any, to which
the unions co-operate with the management
in getting costs down.
The market’s estimate is that the pound
shares are worth 235. 6d. as against 735. 7d.
in October last. At the lower figure the
return would be 12 p.c.. which is the yield
usually looked for on Barrier stocks, on a
14 p.c. div.. basis.
Broken Hill Prop.’s Newcastle Works
At the Broken Hill Prop.’s steelworks at
Newcastle last week the million pounds
coke plant, which has been under construc-
tion for just over two years was lighted up.
There are 106 Coppee coke ovens capable of
producing weekly 10,000 tons of coke for use
in the steel furnaces and elsewhere. But
the production of metallurgical coke, although
the chief object, is not the only one. The
out-turn of benzol products, sulphate of
ammonia and tar can be pursued almost inde-
finitely. It is upon coal-tar derivatives that
some of Germany’s most important chemical
industi’ies are built.
Forty-five years ago, when the B. H. Prop,
commenced to smelt its ore at Broken Hill,
and for about 10 years afterwards, it was
not possible for the company to purchase a ton
of coke made in Australia. The entire require-
ments of the co. were brought from either
Swansea or the European .Continent; they
were hauled over part of the dis-
tance from Port Pirie by bullock-team,
and some of those earliest consign-
ments cost up to seven pounds per
ton. Then William and Thomas Longworth,
despairing of getting buyers for Australian
coke, decided to use it themselves. They
acquired a tribute lease of Great Cobar for
the purpose, and the value of the local pro-
duct was quickly established. The B. 11.
Prop, soon afterwards built its own coke
works at Bellambi, which were continued
until, on the construction of the steelworks
at Newcastle, the attendant coke industry
was removed to that field.
Placer Development, which has its home
in British Columbia, but is mostly run by
Sydney interests, has had a finger in a
good many pies since it was formed, includ-
ing what promises to be one full of plums in
New Guinea. Its latest venture is a profit-
sharing proposition with a Californian gold-
dredging show, known as the Lewiston. This
co. has a dredge with a bucket capacity of
7i cubic feet, which Placer is to recondi-
tion and operate. After payment from profits
of the cost of reconditioning, and other
charges relating to property rights, the two
cos. will whack the clean-up. Placer has
had the property drilled and tested by its
own engineers, and is satisfied that the
ground is worth 9d. per c.y. Allowing for
a 65 p.c. recovery, it expects to pouch £20,000
as its share of the net profits—the esti-
mated yardage available for dredging is
6,000,000. Sixty-five per cent, seems a low
rate of recovery, though possibly the ground
is difficult digging.
=;: * * $
Something better than tucker promises
from an officially-reported silver find at
Newee Creek, near Nambucca Heads, on the
N. S. Wales North Coast. A lode traced by
shallow shafts and trenching for quarter of
a mile has been located; it runs from
9in. to 36in. wide, leading north with an
easterly dip. The silver occurs as stephan-
ite (sulphide and antimony), and there are
indications of silver chloride, with traces of
arsenical pyrites, though a complete analysis
has not yet been made. Six tons of ore taken
from a shallow depth were treated at Dapto
for 2260 z. of silver per ton, while samples
from other places on the line, treated by the
Mines Department, have given even higher
results. All depends on how much is
left of the lode after the samples have been
taken. With a big proved formation the
show may be a valuable one, even with silver
at Is. 41d., provided the ore is amenable to
treatment at a payable cost.
* £ # *
“Old Warden”: Interest is being revived
in the old Eidsvold field, on the upper Bur-
nett (Q,). In the early ’eighties, Eidsvold
was a reefing field of in. portance. Close on
Ioo,ooooz. of gold has been won there, but
save for an old hatter or two no one has
put. a .pick; into it of recent years. Close
to Mt., Perry, once a good copper producer,
it lies in a highly metalliferous district, much
of the country being very rough and broken.
Previously to the reefing find there was a
fair amount of alluvial won at Cania, Kroom-
bit, Mt. Rainbow and Barmundoo, all adja-
cent, and in the ’nineties Monai was turn-
ing out some 2000 oz. annually. Mt. Canin-
dah was another considerable copper pro-
ducer in the district, and boring for artesian
water there has disclosed coal, silver and
manganese. There has never been
serious attempt at developing this field.
* * * *
Amongst the copper resurrections around
Herberton (N.Q.) is the old Anniversary.
Manager Rutledge, of Chillagoe, who has his
eye to business, has recommended that
modern machinery be installed to work the
hafd sulphide bodies known to exist there. A
working syndicate has the matter in hand,
and also other propositions in view.
❖ ❖ -fi
After a short silence Brown’s Reward Co.
(W.A.) is voluble again. This time it
claims to have the longest shoot of gold in
any one Westralian auriferous lease, bodies
of highly-payable ore at various points, and
a method of mining, carting and crushing
that will ensure a profit on all ore of over
sdwt. value. The co. has issued similar
reports in the past, but none of the shows
have come up to expectations.
* * * *
Adelaide-controlled Princess Royal Co.
has received several cheerful renorts from its
Westonia (W.A.) show, and has bought a
second-hand battery. A surface dump of
about 1500 tons of ore is expected to crush
well, and indications of wealth are said to
be visible underground.
* * * ' *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Is the present depression in the share
market in Sydney likely to continue? (2)
Why is the Melbourne market better at pre-
sent than Sydney ? —9221.
(1) The real support for prices is the
money available for investment. Prospects of
a substantial increase in the national income,
or general purchasing power, depend mainly
upon two unlikely contingencies, both outside
our control: (1) increased prices for our
products, and (2) a renewal of large-scale
borrowings abroad. Recently there has
been much forced selling of scrip in Sydney
in order to reduce overdrafts and other
liabilities; thus the supply of scrip on
’Change has exceeded the demand, and so
accentuated the general weakness. When
this selling eases, and after the plans of the
Federal and State Governments for balancing
their budgets are definitely known, a firmer
tone in the market may be expected. (2)
There has been more forced selling in Sydney
than in Melbourne.
(1) What are the chances of successfully
prospecting for gold in New Guinea? Capital
required, etc f (2) Has North Westralia
been prospected to any extent? (3) What
will pref. shareholders of the Rapson Tyre
Co. get?— 9l97.
(1) For experienced men, fair; but they
would have to open up new country. The
Administration advises a capital of from
£5OO to £1000; a permit to enter and
medical certificate are also required. Papua
is attracting attention, too. Here a minimum
of £2OO is required. (2) Yes, has been pretty
well covered. (3) Impossible to say exactly;
amount of liabilities not disclosed in recent
statement issued by the board. But.it is
likely to be under par. See B. 3/9/’3O.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
M.H.: All that can be said definitely is
that geological evidence favors boring. It is highly
speculative. .. .E.R.: Silver is legal tender only up
to 40s 0.W.G.: See B. 22/l/’3O and B.
11/6/’3O. Neither co.’s shares are listed... .L.8.G.:
See “‘Wild Cat’ Monthly,” August, 1930 F.F.:
If safety of capital is very important, stick to
Government bonds; they are now all returning over
6b p.c J.A.N.: Your policy has no surrender
value until it has been three years in force. It
cost more than the first, year’s premium to put
the business on the books. .. .W.8.M.: (1) See
B. 22/l/’3O. (2) Formed in 1922. (3) Yes, policy-
holders amply covered; funds mostly invested in good-
quality assets.


fd
2
n
SAFETY, COMFORT, PLEASURE
FOR THE
Ability to understand and supply
the motoring needs of the family
has been the backbone of Dodge
Brothers success over a period of
15 years. All the experience
thus accumulated has been put
into the Dodge Brothers Sixes
and Eight-in-Line, with the result
that these cars are even more
popular than any of their pre-
decessors. They are comfortable,
safe, easy-riding, and easy to
control. Doors and windows are
extra wide. There is ample space
for five adult passengers, with
leg-room, head-room and elbow-
room to spare. The Australian-
built bodies afford protection
that promotes peace of mind.
The weatherproof internal
hydraulic brakes are an im-
portant safety factor. The flexi-
bility of performance that comes
from a smooth, powerful engine
is still another insurance of satis-
faction. These cars have, of
course, traditional Dodge de-
pendability and long life. Let
the family see and drive them.
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales ........ Harden and Johnston, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria . Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
■ r :
Queensland Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane
South Australia .... Waymouih Motor Company, Ltd., Adelaide
Western Australia .... Winterbottom Motor Company, Ltd., Perth
Tasmania .... Co-operative Motors, Ltd., 13/ Collins St., Hobart


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers’
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VaRIOUS SIAT'ES
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
7 he Standard ot Quality throughout tho Empire ,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS LTD.
The World’s largest Commercial Forestry Co.
Subscribed Share Capital £240,619
Bonds Subscribed exceed £3,400,000
Funds lodged with Trustees exceed £498,000
(Including over £250,000 invested in Australian Government Securities,)
Area planted Approx. 120,000 acres
Bankers Bank of New Zealand and their Agents
Head Office Kembla Building, Margaret Street, Sydney
Sole Brokers Smith Wylie & Go., Ltd.
Branches: Throughout Australia, New Zealand and the Federated Malay States. London, Bombay,
Java, Hong Kong and Shanghai.
gfd
Just the thing
for Holidaying—
Mo to ting' Fishing
— Golfing, etc.
The "TROPIC”
BEACH HAT
This light, cool hat of varnished pressed
straw has become highly popular among
men. It is waterproof will not crack
or split may be packed rn S'
ot tolled. Price — / / l")
All Sizes 1 / V
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street, Bri'bane
ABORIGINALITIES
“Mei”: “Ghillie” is right (B. 27/S/’3O)
about the red deer being a pest to farmers
on the Darling Downs. It’s simply dreadful.
They come down from their mountain fast-
nesses around Jondaryan and Bowenville
and work great havoc among the sugar-
beet, bananas and edible seaweeds that form
the district’s main crops. A curious instance
of adaptation to environment is shown by
their physical changes. Their front legs
have grown shorter, and develop d p-’ws
NOT THE ANSWER HE EXPECTED.
Boss: “You want a rise? What are you getting now?”
JACKY: “Gettum plurry near starved.”
instead of the usual cloven hoof, while the
back legs and tail have lengthened and
strengthened. At times when speed is re-
quired the tail acts as an extra leg, and the
front legs are dispensed with, thus giving a
curious hopping motion.
“Kaisinik”: In New Guinea
man-traps are pitfalls that
prospectors and other “poke-
abouts” have to keep on the
alert for. In the Mandated
Territory these treacherous pits
are often nine feet deep,
toothed with spears, whose
barbed points stick up at such
angles that a man falling in
must inevitably be impaled.
When camouflaged in the kuni-
grass flats the dense tussocks
completely hide the menace.
Around the mouth of a new pit
the natives plant * grass and
vines, which soon trellis into a
mass of herbage over the hole.
There are pig and wallaby pits,
too, but the man pits are the
most cleverly disguised. A pit
may yawn under the centre of
a jungle pad leading to a vil-
lage. The lid of the pit then
generally is of plaited cane,
reeds or twigs covered with a
layer of decomposed leaves and
loam across which the deep
imprint of the pad leads plainly
and invitingly. Invariably, such
a trap is placed where jungle
walls hem in the pad. Num-
bers of villages are surrounded
by these traps, which are re-
garded as a first line of defence.
* * *
“Caveman”: Whoever searches
in the Maori dictionary for the
name Monowai, which the
Union S. S. Co. is intending to
use for the Razmak, which re-
places the Tahiti, won’t find it,
although it is on the M.L. map.
Lake Monowai, in the South
Island, was discovered by a
party of surveyors, who com-
bined the Greek “mono”
(single) and Maori “wai”
(water). Neither Otago nor
Tolaga is a good Maori name.
These are pakeha corruptions
of Otakau and Te Auwa. The
mixing of languages still goes
on—the Maoris are now asking
the reason for the weird title “Chateau
Tongariro.” The Maori for house is
“whare,” for common meeting-place “run-
anga,” and for hostel “panuitanga.”
* * * *
“Caballe”: N. Queensland has some bush-
land leeches that are heavy eaters. To them
an unsuspecting stranger is as welcome as an
iceman* would be to the inhabitants of
Tonlwt. Bn| ttmv ean h> cirimvpm'd Rub
brine on boot and socks and pull your socks
outside your pants. Beside the safety enjoyed
there is much edification in being able to
stand amid thousands of these pests, seeing
them shrink away, and taunting them with
their helplessness.
WAITING AT THE SIGN.
P.C. 99: “Well, what are you waiting here for?”
Shick: “Whash time the barber open?”
“Fiji”: Hinemoa, the Maori maiden, the
story of whose famous swim is known the
world around, has a rival- —still living—in
Fiji. This lady, although no Venus, was a
chief’s daughter, and, as sucl}, a desirable
mat'll. P°m b'-d a handsome young chief
picked out for her;
but the lady had other
ideas of beauty, and
told papa so, which,
of course, was a seri-
ous breach of eti-
quette. The usual
dust-up followed, and
the lady was forbid-
den to gaze on the
paternal face, and was
confined to barracks.
This latter punish-
ment was t6o much
for her, and so, in the
dead of night and
papa’s favorite canoe,
she and four com-
panions set off for a
distant town where
the rights of women
weren’t so much of a
political joke. Their
little trip necessi-
tated their going out-
side the reef into the
open sea. Hardly
were they outside,
than over went the
canoe, and the strong
seaward current did
the rest. For two days
and a night they
floated along. Three
times during the
night she heard
cries as first one and
then two more of her
companions gave up
the ghost or surren-
dered to sharks. On
the evening of the
second day, the re-
maining two were
picked up by a cutter
some 30 miles from
their home town.
When papa heard the
news he killed the pig and told the lady his
face was on view to her again. Further,
he told her to go ahead and marry
her lad. She married him, and it was in
his store that she told me this story. She
is very happy with her husband. He is the
Chinese storekeeper—so and half-blind.
* # !jt S|!
“X. Farmer”: That grand old British
spirit of “Theirs not to reason why” is not
extinct. Returning home one evening a
Wimmera grazier noticed that one of two
rams in his home paddock was lying stiff
and still. Next morning he told Ghoom,
newly engaged as rouseabout, to dig a hole
and bury the deceased. Asked some time later
why the interment had taken such a time, the
yeoman, who was panting and dishevelled,
gasped, “Well, you zee, zur, I had to hold
that ram down whilst I buried ’un, and the
other one butted I.”
“O. W. Waireki” : Hori, a careless, good-
for-nothing native, informed me that he was
going to ask his wealthy father-in-law for
a start in life. Meeting him later I inquired
if he- got it. “Too right I ket it,” lie
answered. “How did he start you?” I asked.
“He start me,” Hori remarked sourly, “wit'
te toe!”
* * * *
“MacFlecknoe”: Bush surgery! I was
talking to an old chap out west in N. S.
Wales, and he told me that he had had such
bad toothache recently that he had to have
three teeth out. As there was no dentist
within 50 miles I asked him how he did it.
“Ar!” he said, “I just ’oicks ’em out with
me knife!”
“Wang”: Dave Gumbougli and Sarah
Sliprails had been married in the afternoon,
and the wedding breakfast was being held in
the Mechanics’ Institute. In due course Dad
Gumbough got up to make a speech. He had
listened attentively to the speech made by
the parson, and reckoned he had assimilated
enough of that gentleman’s remarks to help
him through his little say. “As th’ parson
has tole yer,” he said, “I have lorst a son
but gained a dorter, an’ me friend Slip-
rails has lorst a dorter an’ gained a son.
He gains and I loses ; I gains an’ he loses.
But what’s got me flummoxed is where Dave
an’ Sarah comes in.”
* =5: *
“Cedilla”: Jim and Bill. 30-year-old twins,
are as alike as two peas. Nobody would
know the difference if Jim had not a large
scar on his hand and wrist. The other day
Jim told me how he got hurt. “Both Biil
and I had horrible tempers when we were
kids,” he began. “One day we’d had an
argument and started a fight. Bill cleared
out, and I chased him. After turning a
corner, I came upon him face to face. I
was pretty wild and let drive with my right,
straight for his face. But,” he concluded
ruefully, “it wasn’t Bill at all. It was
myself—in a mirror; and that’s how I col-
lected the identification marks.”
THE COLT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Just look at that bay colt,” the old man
said.
“Look at ’is ’ead,
'E’s got the muscle an’ ’e’s bred to stay.
You note ’is shoulders an’ ’is perfect ’ocks.
If ’e don’t win a hack race some fine day
I’ll eat me socks.
" ’ls mother, no, she never won a race, '
But she ’ad pace.
It’s fifteen miles from Murphy’s pub to ’ere,
’An nuthin’ ’eaded ’er nor ever could
AV’en I bin makin’ ’omeward full o’ beer.
Oh, she was good!
“ ’ls father? Crikey! Worth ’is weight in
gold.
Although ’e’s old.
’E ain’t the racin’ sort, but still an’ all
No better leader ever tightened chains,
An’ as fer pullin’, blime, ’e could haul,
An’ ’e’s got brains.
"Them fancy breeders now, they talk a lot
O' flamin’ rot!
That colt o’ mine, ’is blood ain’t extra blue,
An’ though ’e ain't in trainin’ not just
now.
If ’e don’t land a Cup, or maybe two,
I’ll eat the cow!”
VICTORIA.
ELLENVALE.


RUPTURE/
SUFFERERS /
OENVER
Know security of
body and peace
of mind by wearing Penyer’s
Elastic Truss —the truss with the
patent water pad. Ensures rtal
freedom with scientific ruptu-e
support. Trusses also made speci-
ally to order.
Order by mail. Write for Free
Pamphlet and Self-measurement
form —posted to you in plain
envelope.
Single 30/- Double 40/-
DEN Y E R BROS.,
Dept. 1, 267 George Street,
Sydney.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 18‘ -■
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Uyan, Esq.
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., U.M.U.
I.fnfr*t. Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and
brandies in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leadiwr Rankins Tnst’tutions covering Australasia and the World, tnu
Tlana offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general barking business.
g
Head Utfice,
Brisbane.
THE EQUITABLE LIFE
Assurance Company of Australasia, Ltd.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Office: 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Company issues every variety of Probate, Whole
Life, Endowment, Children’s Endowment. Combined
Benefits (All Sicknesses) and Persona' Accident Policy.
Policies provide for payment of Hospital Expenses in
lump sum or partial disability, and for cessation of
premiums on total disability. Secure full particulars from
any of the Company’s offices.
FUEDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
STOCK for MARKET
Every Head Full Value
/. *?■
we
'TM
W.
m
If those are the figures you wanf to secure
Consign Cattle, Sheep, Lanibs, Pigs, to
Winchcombe, Carson
LTD.
Salesmen, Homebush Yards, Sydney; or
Enoggera Yards, Brisbane.
OFFICES: , „
Wincheombe House,
Bridge St., Sydney.
AND
99-101 Eagle St
Brisbane.
“Wilkie”: Have you ever gone a-seeking
gold? I have. That’s the way I don’t make
a living. Bill Jones and I have sunk holes,
driven drives, drifted creeks, sluiced, puddled
and washed dishes until it has become a sort
of second nature to us. One night when
Bill’s bedclothes slipped off and he hauled
DEVILS TO CHARGE.
THE GENERAL: “How do the Jews in your regiment shape? They have the name, as
a race, of being great fighters."
THE COLONEL: “They are. But when you talk about an advance they want to know
what security you can offer.”
them back, he swung them with a circular
swishing motion, and remarked that he
couldn’t .see a sign of a color. Well do I
remember the first hole we sank. An old
digger said we’d strike the bottom in about
Bft. We worked for a week and got down
to 20ft., and then the sides of the shaft fell
in and nearly buried me. When I was get-
ting out my boots came off —they were laced
with string—and another fall covered them
with about sft. of clay, and I took all the
skin off my arm in my excitement. Then
just as I was getting clear Bill slipped and
broke his watch and pipe, and nearly broke
his neck, and then an old bloke came along
and .said we’d gone through the bottom and
showed us a layer of water-worn stones
about 3ft. down. We tried it, but it didn’t
show a speck of color. We don’t dig more
than 2ft. now, except sometimes. One of
the exceptions was on Murphy’s flat, reported
to us as being fabulously rich. We went
down to 10ft. and struck nothing but water,
so decided to quit. As we stood looking
at the result of our silly labors a chap saun-
tered up and picked a 21dwt. speck off the
mullock heap round the hole. We tried to
get it from him, but as we’d told him we’d
given up the place he reckoned he was within
the law. We argued with him for a long
time, and I lost two front teeth and Bill
got his nose broken, after which we chased
the chap for two miles, but he got away. So
we went back to the claim, washed all the
dirt at the top of the hole and got nothing.
Then we sank holes until the flat looked
like a large-scale relief map of the Hima-
layas interspersed with shell-craters. We
washed, puddled, boxed and sluiced the whole
lot, and got nothing. The riches of that flat
certainly were “fabulous,” and I reckon we
were the flats and not Murphy. We met the
chap who stole our nugget to-day. That’s
how I got this black eye. Well, T’ll have
to go round and bail Bill out. These police
don’t use discrimination. They reckoned
Bill was a thug, though the other chap was
able to walk to the ambulance with a couple
of other chaps helping him. Solong.
* si! * *
“Nautilus”: “Nakhoda” (B. 16/7/’3O) is
not quite correct regarding the haunts of
the sea gypsies. Their cruising grounds are
very much further to the south than between
Akyab and Rangoon. They are seldom, if
ever, found as far north as Tavoy, some 240
miles south of Rangoon, and generally to
the south of Mergui and among the islands
of the Mergui Archipelago. They also live
in villages during the rainy season (s.-w.
monsoon). Their huts are built up on piles
in the water. There is a large village at
Victoria Point, another in Hastings Harbor
and several smaller ones scattered through
the islands. The total population is esti-
mated at about 800. Their proper name is
“Selungs.” The majority of them are
double-jointed at the elbows. They often go
into Mergui and trade beche-de-mer, pearl
shell and basket work in return for rice and
other stores.
“Veronal”: There’s nothing new in using
malaria germs to light paralysis. Over four
centuries ago the witch-doctors of the Nasai
and Nandi tribes of what is now British
East Africa set the “plintu” of malaria to
fight the “vidudu” of paralysis—these being
the terms by which they described the germs
of these diseases. Mosquitoes from malarial
swamps were allowed to bite the paralysed
patient, and the malarial germs usually
killed the others. Then the malaria itself
was cured with decoctions of certain bitter
leaves and roots.
* * # *
“C.Q.”: J. W. Docherty, secretary of the
Vic. Ski Club, was recently tramping over
the Bogong High Plains when he came on
a couple of snowbound horses. They turned
out to belong to F. Wraith, and had strayed
from a provision train he had driven, across
the Alps four months before. Their only
nourishment in the interim had been twigs
from the snow-gums; but, though in low con-
dition, they were strong enough to be driven
home.
* # * *
“Yarri” : Hughenden (Q.) once had a little
band of wild spirits, mostly squatters’ sons,
who were known as “The Greenhides.” One
of them arrived in town during racetime after
a long journey in a condition of severe
drought. lie rode straight into a hotel bar
where a muster of Greenhides were enjoying
themselves. After calling for drinks all
round, he stove in rlie head of a beer cask,
and, throwing some notes to the protesting
publican, invited his horse to have one, too.
The horse didn’t mind; he drank as if he
loved beer. Soon afterwards a glassy, dozey
look came into his eyes, and as he showed
an inclination to sit on the furniture he was
led outside and left in a little paddock to
get sober. But that was a mild prank for
the Greenhides. Sometimes they had hurdle
races in the .street, using the hotel stools and
chairs for jumps, but their cheques were
always prompt when they were billed for
damages.
“Mundowie”: Bunny’s
way of disposing of the
so.l from his excavations,
described by members of
the Council, reminds me
of the meat-stealers who
used to infest the western
parts of Q’land. A beast
was shot in a secluded
part of a run, and when
all the meat required had
been cut off and placed
on packhorses, the re-
mains were buried. Then
a hole was dug along-
side, the earth from
which was thrown on the
grave, so that the hole
would look like a pros-
pector’s shaft. When
the thieves were in a
hurry, and could take
only a small quantity of
meat, the beast was
thrown and tied, or per-
haps dropped with a
stunning blow behind the
ear, and bled into a hole.
The hide was split along
the botton of the ribs,
and after the meat had
been cut off it was drawn
over the frame again,
and the carcase turned
over. The top part was
left intact, and the beast
laid out to look as if it
had died a natural death.
The trick was discovered
by a squatter, who
noticed that a couple of
dead animals on his run
had no tongues.
# * ❖
“Jamal”: An infallible sign of the new-
chum rabbit-trapper is the use of a setting
stick. This is a Bin. piece of curved stick
of pencil thickness that is used as a lever
between jaw and plate, thus preventing the
trap being set off by the weight of the
trapper’s hand during covering operations.
Experienced trappers use the left forefinger
in the same way with the back of the hand
resting upon the spring.
* A * *
“W a r a n bini”:
Our house on the
Richmond River
(N.S.W.) was al-
ways shared by a
few hornets. They
loved to build their
cells in the corners
of rooms, over
doors and windows
and under shelves.
They were sociable
insects providing
you didn’t interfere
with them. The
mud for building
purposes was got at
the river’s edge,
half a mile away,
and carried up a
scrubby bank, indi-
cating that they
didn’t mind a lot of
extra work and
travelling to have a
house. I calculated
that for each cell —
averaging about
lin. in length and
1-Jin. in circumfer-
ence, and each
pellet l-16in. in
diame te r—they
travelled 160 miles,
and there were two
or more cells stuck
together in each
nest. But the work
didn’t end there.
As each cell was
completed, the hor-
net deposited its
eggs, and crammed
the cavity with
spiders and a mis-
cellany of grubs,
each of which it
paralysed by sting-
ing. If the victims
were killed outright
they would be use-
less for food by the
time the young ’uns
were ready for
breakfast. Ea c h
cell was carefully
capped before the
next one was pro-
ceeded with. The
hornet is a brick-
layer, mortar-mixer
and architect, and
a first-class crafts-
man in all depart-
ments.
“Peebah”: Althorpe’s Island, a most unin-
viting spot near the entrance to Spencer
Gulf (S.A.), shelters one of the most curious
graves in Australia, the grave of a petrified
man. This has a history, and the head-
stone, made from the bottom , board of a
lifeboat, gives a clue. The inscription, faded
almost away, reads: “G. Petersen, aged 48,
buried here. IS3S.” Nothing definite is
known of this grave. The light station on the
island was established 40 years later. Some
years ago, when one of the light-keepers was
digging near the grave, he happened to turn
over portion of the soil, unearthing the
head and shoulders of a man, to all intents
and purposes carved in stone. He hurried
to the light station, returning with the other
men on duty, and together they dug up the
body. There was no doubt about it, the
head and shoulders of a man buried nearly
a century had in some fashion become petri-
fied ! The light-keepers telephoned Adel-
aide, and a prof, arrived to look the find
over. Arrangements were made to take the
body back to Adelaide for the museum, but
the Norwegian Consul stepped in and refused
to let the body of his countryman be removed.
IN THESE DEGENERATE DAYS.
YOUNG ACTOR: “I’ve got rather a good part just now and it’s
expected to run six weeks.”
FITZ HAMLET: “Six weeks? Damme, laddie, that’s no part — it’s
a career.”
OCTOBER THE SPHINX.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A handsome, puzzling, wanton queen
She knows no rule nor bends the knee ;
Upon her robe of glowing green,
Though flowers burst exultingly,
The warmer shades of brown are seen.
Who knows what her designs may be?
Inscrutably she smiles —and thinks
But answers not —in short, a Sphinx.
As though she waited for a sign
She stands with gifts in either hand,
Presents diverse as rain and shine.
Clerks, flappers and the town-bred band,
Housewives with linen on the line,
Read in her face assurance bland.
Around to-day their thoughts revolve;
The Sphinx’s riddle thus they solve.
Strange paradox ! More popular
With every tanned agrarian
She is when frowns her beauty mar;
They fit in with the rural plan.
Each scans that darkened face afar
And asks the riddle, old as man
(To them black looks portend a kiss) :
“D’you think we’ll get rain out of this?”
S.A.
BILL O’C.


ADELAIDES Best-Value Hotel
Pleasing Fare to suit all
h
purses
Live and dine here
just as you wish, at
the rates you wish to
pay. Meals a la
carte from 1/6. 300
rooms, 100 bath-
rooms. Hot and cold
water in all rooms.
Yale locks on all
doors. Fire - proof
throughout. Cour-
teous service. £3/10/-
weekly. Bed and
Breakfast from 6/6.
"Grosvenor
NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION
...the finest flavoured
oysters in the world/
From Stewart Island ot New Zealand
come to us the world’s most succu-
lent oysters...in cans that beat the
label "St George ' Carefully chosen
and immediately canned tn their own
liquor— thus is preserved the luscious
flavour of each of the 2 doz oysters
that are found in the large tins
Served straight from the can. they
are as succulent and tasty as the
finest oysters, freshly gathered—yet
infinitely cheaper All leading
grocers sell ST GEORGE OYSTERS
Irvine & Stevenson’s St. George Co.
Ltd. Dunedin, Neut Zealand.
i m
* \\
m
£
fdg
A properly balanced meal keeps dogs in good
condition the year around. Meat is essential.
When mixed with fresh vegetables, cereal,
ground bone and cod liver oil, it makes the
est dog food. It is known as KEN-L-RA*
TlON—the Dog Food Supreme.
Buy a tin today. All dealers stock it.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from JRK
W. C. SCHWAB, P O. Box 1821, Melbourne
fd
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
SHEEP ON THE DAIRY FARM.
Bur K.” : In the Auckland (M.L.) district
last year 4,281,000 acres, chiefly dairying
land, supported 778,000 cattle (including
307,607 cows in milk) and 1,292,000 sheep
and lambs. Latest available figures for
somewhat similar country on the North
Coast (N.S.W.) show that 826,625 cattle
(including 239,302 cows in milk) and 23,075
sheep were carried on 4,778.000 acres. Surely
it would be a good proposition for Austra-
lian dairy-farmers to run sheep after the
flush of the grass has been eaten off.
The system followed in Maoriland is to
subdivide the dairy farms into small pad-
docks, which can be fed off in rotation. As
a rule, it is arranged to accommodate about
15 cows to the acre at the time of feeding
off in a flush period. Failing-mouthed ewe
can usually be obtained from the harder
grass lands at a moderate figure, and stand
two or three years on the softer coastal
grasses. Lambs are timed to drop when
the pastures are at the peak period, and
are thus ready to go away fat from their
mothers; they are sold at this time, if
possible.
Unfortunately, we lack a suitable breed
for use on our soft N.S.W. coastal lands,
but this difficulty could be overcome. In
Maoriland they go in for the Romney ewe
with the Southdown ram, and Romney-Lin-
coln cross ewes on very wet bush country.
Romney ewes clip a good big fleece, and
resist footrot better than most other breeds.
Suitable fences, yards and dips are neces-
sarily provided. Shearing is conducted on
a community basis, one shed with a four-
stand plant being sufficient to accommodate
many farmers.
Top-dressing pastures with super, and
planting artificial grasses are necessary if
the land is to be taxed in such an intensive
degree. There must also be reserves of grass
hdy, ensilage and root crops to provide
against drought. Rape for topping off and
lucerne are also indicated.
STOMACH WORMS AND DRENCHES.
“Nick O’Teen”: I hasten to assure
" W.D.Mc.” (B. 10/9/’3O) that the worm-
drench formula which I criticised— i.e., two
ounces of arsenic, 241 b. of washing soda and
three “figs” of tobacco in eight gallons of
water—is not mine. Two instances of the
px-escription being used by farmers, with
most unsatisfactory results, came under my
notice in a recent month. Comparing the
two formulas we find this difference —
“W.D.Mc.” uses a definite amoxxnt of tobacco,
whereas the quantity mentioned (and criti-
cised) by me w r as indefinite.
The method of preparing the drench under
the formula quoted by me was to extract the
tobacco by steeping in cold water for 24
hours, the boiled solution of the arsenic and
soda being added when cold to the tobacco
solution. This permits the minimum amount
of the wormicide. nicotine, being volatilised.
As it does not take much nicotine to knock
a lamb over, the amount of tobacco to use
should be definitely stated, which was the
point I tried to make.
The formula suggested by “W.D.Mc.”
bx-ings to mind the story of the Scot w r ho
boiled his whisky to concentrate it and
then took the remainder back to the pub
and demanded the return of his moixey. I
suggest that “W.D.Mc.” might just as well
leave tobacco out of the formula as to boil
the alkaline extract for an hour, by which
time 95 per cent, of the nicotine would have
departed, to the discomfort and possible
danger of the operator. The formula I
objected to on the score of the vague expres-
sion “fig” may contain too mucli nicotine.
That given by “W.D.Mc.” avoids this possi-
bility in driving off the. nicotine prior to
using the drench. I say again that many
of our old-time (and modern) foi-mulas
should be carefully reviewed.
THE CHOICE OF RAMS.
“Jumbuck”: Many a farmer is asking him-
self, “What rams shall I join with my
ewes this season to get the most profitable
results?” For the past 12 or 14 years
Merino rams have been almost universally
•used, but their day is done for the present,
as far as the small grazier and mixed farmer
are concerned. Doi-set Horns and South-
downs are the boom sheep at present;
and for getting eai-ly-matxxring lambs
for freezers perhaps they stand alone.
Their use, howevei-, should be avoided in any
district when the breeder is not certain of
fattening the lambs as suckers. The reason
for this is that, unless fattened as a sucker, a
weaner carrying a most inferior fleece is left
on one’s hands, and the ewes, if bred from,
produce a mongrel that is painful to look
upon.
At the beginning of the present century
there was a boom in Shropshires. Breeders
used them indiscriminately whether their
country was suitable for that breed or not,
and many unfortunately bred from the
Slirop.-cross ewes. The result was that it
took 20 years to breed out the black faces.
The harsh wool of the Downs breed and
brown faces and legs are still discernible in
many N.S.W. farmers’ flocks. The financial
result of this careless breeding was not so
severely felt with mutton and wool of all
classes at high price levels. The result to-
day, with inferior wool almost unsaleable,
would be disastrous.
Over the greater part of N.S.W., where
fattening seasons for sucker lambs are un-
certain, any of the four long-wool breeds —
Border Leicester, Romney Marsh, Lincoln,
Leicester—may be profitably used. Care
should, however, be taken to select the breed
most suitable to the locality. Of the four
breeds, the Border Leicester has had, and still
has, the greatest vogue. I am unable to
account for this preference, unless it can be
attributed to the influence of Wrenford
Mathews, who controlled Government experi-
mental sheep-breeding for a number of years,
and plumped for the Border.
After 40 years of cross-breeding for
freezers, and of fattening lambs for the metro-
politan markets in three States, 1 can unhesi-
tatingly say that I have always got the best
all-round results from the Romney Marsh
cross. For the small breeder who wishes to
save his ewe lambs for breeding purposes,
the Romney Marsh ram is by far the most
satisfactory. You can go on using him in
the flock until it is bred practically pure
Romney without deterioration of the fleece,
whereas the other breeds after the first cross
become too coarse in the wool or too light
cutters to be profitable.. The Romney Marsh
sucker is at least equal to any of the other
breeds as a freezer, and is easily the best
weaner to fatten; and as a two-tooth wether
he is out on his own.
PASTURE IMPROVEMENT.
“Bar K.”: Pasture improvement is pro-
bably the most practical way of combating
droughts. Its value is shown not only in
the increased carrying capacity of the land,
but in the wool, meat or dairy produce
taken off that land. It is effected by top-
dressing grass lands, tearing up with grass
harrows or plough, and planting lucerne ox-
proved grasses and clovers to supplement
the natural pastures during the “off” periods.
The value of applying super, (usually at
the x-ate of from fcwt. to per acre)
is twofold. First, it is a plant food, which
supplies the necessary addition of phosphoric
acid ; second, it encourages a vigorous root-
growth which strengthens the fibrous, system
and enables it to penetrate quickly into the
soil, and there take full advantage of what-
ever moisture may be available. The value
of this streixgthened root system in a dry
time may mean the life of the grass plant.
It is necessai-y, particularly on paspalum
land, to break up the surface of the ground
fairly frequently to let the air in, and so
encourage new, sweet, vigorous growth. This
practice also enables the planted grass seeds
to become established, especially when car-
ried out in conjunction with top-di-essing.
Of all fodder plants, lucerne stands out
as the most universally valuable, and it
should be established in the paddocks when
possible. Apart from its valxxe for
grazing, it is excellent for silage and hay,
and, having no grain, it is not attacked in
the stack to any great extent by rats and
mice.
Other suitable grasses and clovers vary
accoi-ding to the district. Taking N.S.W.
alone, the following table will be a fair guide
to what grasses have proved most suitable: —
North Coast: White, subterranean and perennial
red clovers, perennial rye, Phalaris bulbosa and
cocksfoot.
Central Coast: Where drier conditions are encoun-
tered, hardier types of plants must be used, such
as Rhodes grass, Wimmera rye and Sheep’s Burnett.
South Coast: Perennial rye and white clover in
the richer soils; Wimmera rye, cocksfoot and sub-
terranean clover elsewhere.
Northern Tableland: Perennial rye, cocksfoot, Wim-
mera rye, English trefoil, white and perennial red
clovers.
Central Tableland: Sheep’s Burnett, cocksfoot and
subterranean clover; in the drier areas, Wimmera
rye.
Southern Tableland: Subterranean, white and peren-
nial red clovers, perennial and Wimmera ryes.
North-West Slopes; Grazing lucerne and fertili-
sation and cultivation of natural pastures.
Central Western and S.-W. Slopes: Grazing lucerne,
Rhodes grass and Wimmera rye; in the richer lands,
cub. clovers.
For the Western Plains, fertilisation of natural
pastures and the fostering of saltbush and fodder
trees and shrubs are recommended.
A WIMMERA FALLOWING JOB.
“X Farmer”: A young Wimmera farmer
is fallowing 70 acres of black-soii plains per
week, with the aid of 16 horses and two five-
furrow ploughs. Cost, 2s. per acre; working
time, seven and a half hours a day.
The farmer has 60 acres of Cape barley.
Sown in April, it provides continual feed for
horses and other stock from July until
November. Allowing for rent, seed, etc.,
this 60 acres would cost about £5O.
At 8 a.m. the Wimmera man gets his
team in from the barley paddock and throws
three bags of chaff into the mangers to keep
them quiet whilst being harnessed. At nine
o’clock the two ploughs are moving, and,
except for half an hour for lunch, do not
stop until 3.30 p.m. Four o’clock sees
the horses back in the barldy. They are
placed eight and eight in the ordinary tan-
dem pulley-block yoked on to a spreader-bar
with a chain behind. The ploughs are con-
nected separately by a pear-shaped link at
the end of iron pull-bars; this allows of
adjustment on the spreader-chain. His
“pear” links are 4ft. from either end of
the spreader and 4Jft. from one another. The
right-hand or rear plough has about a foot
clearance from the end of the front plough.
Its pull-bar is connected by a short chain to
the tail of the other plough ; this device holds
it in position when turning corners. The two
ploughs make quite as good a job throughout
as if drawn by two separate teams. Also the
horses look and work as well as though fed
wholly on chaff.
Allowing £2 for barley, the same for three-
quarters of a ton of chaff, £2 10s. for wages
and 10s. for wear and tear, etc., the cost of
fallowing 70 acres is reckoned at £7.
A LESSON FROM THE DANES.
“Bendee” : The pig industry in Australia
has a future, but the requirements of the over-
seas, as well as the local, market must be
considered. Little Denmark can teach us
a lesson. Danish bacon is supreme in the
British market. In 1928 Denmark sold
£25,242,000 worth of bacon, £18,613,000
worth of butter and £4,387,000 worth of
eggs to Britain. In all it placed £56,000,000
worth of produce on the British market,
buying only £10,671,000 worth of British
goods.
The Danes have concentrated on stand-
ardisation of type and quality. They breed
from the Large York boar and the native
Land Race sows. Strict examination of
carcases and an efficient grading system
ensure that the buyer will receive the same
quality with every consignment. This is
one direction in which we must improve
our methods. Uniformity of type and
quality is all important. The consumers’,
not the breeders’, whims must be studied.
Co-operation between the States is calcu-
lated to establish the breeding of the right
type of pig. In Westralia, and at the recent
economic conference of the R.A.S. in Syd-
ney, the Berk.-Tam. cross has been accepted
as the most desirable type to meet all require-
ments. This cross is favored in every other
State. We must aim at a good proportion
of flesh to fat, properly distributed, full
hams, well-steaked sides and as little loss
through moisture evaporation as possible.
Under existing methods, cured bacon will
not stand transhipment overseas, but frozen
carcases can be shipped to and cured in Eng-
land satisfactorily. There is also a market
in Britain for frozen pork. Unfortunately
present ruling price of about 4|d. per lb. is
unattractive.
SCRUB LAND. ,
“Booraby”: I have noticed many N.S.W.
scrub farms that were littered with logs and
stumps for several years after the first
burning. The covered ground amounted to
a considerable area. Besides the loss through
its unproductiveness, the charred timber made
the rest of the field more difficult to work,
while the slow process of levering the logs
together was unnecessarily heavy.
With a team of half a dozen bullocks such
land can be well cleared after the second burn-
ing. The scrub in the first place should be
cut when the sap is dowvi —the opposite to
ringbarking; it will then dry quicker. The
team will drag out stumps up to a foot
thick. Haul them up against the tough and
big stumps, especially those that _ sucker,
and the small logs against the big logs.
This done, all that is necessary is to go
round the fires about once each night, the
[ires being made with the object of first
burning the long heavy logs into shiftable
lengths. Afterwards one part helps to burn
another, but always, where possible, they
should be burnt against stumps that cannot
be pulled out. It is easier than grubbing, or
part-grubbing, and renders a stump-extractor
unnecessary.
Some scrub timbers burn right away once
they get alight; others are very difficult to
burn. A lot of work can be saved by
noting these immediately after the first firing,
and making the best use of the good burners
tc get rid of the others. To let them burn
out without burning something else is waste,
ihis neglect is often the reason of so much
timber being left on the ground. The same
applies to stumps. Some will burn to the
last root —yards underground. No need
to pile good wood against them; pile it
against the stubborn material. A good plan
is to roll a bad log against a stump so
that the stump will burn the log.
The inexperienced hand, who doesn’t con-
sider these little points, makes a tremendous
lot of extra work for himself.
A WORD FOR DOBBIN.
“Disc Harrow”: Despite R.S.P.C.A. in-
spections, carelessness in treating horses is
unpleasantly frequent, particularly on small
farms where only one or two are kept, and
where they consequently get a little of every-
thing, with no intervals for recuperation.
Oases of downright cruelty are not uncommon,
A brute next to me—not Australian—used
whips plaited with wire before neighbors inter-
vened. Apart from the question of cruelty,
commonsense ought to tell horse-owners that
their ariimals are valuable assets, and that
by misusing them they depreciate that value
at a high rate.
A man will keep his motor-car scrupu-
lously oiled and lubricated, and his mach-
inery adjusted to operate with the greatest
possible efficiency. The same man will
require his horses to work in ill-fitting har-
ness improperly fastened, and with sore backs
or shoulders to hamper them still further: and
after pulling their mouths to pieces for a
month or two, will begin to wonder why
the ploughing requires such a vast expendi-
ture of his own strength and temper.
Animals, just as machines, can only give of
their best if worked under the best con-
ditions.
Or a farmer who is not an offender him-
self will let inexperienced drivers have their
fling. A steady horse, that is as good as an
extra man to an orchardist, may be spoilt
in a week by a mouth-tugging novice. And
I’ve known both water and feed forgotten.
Even if consideration of these points puts
no apparent money in your pocket, the nag
at least will thank you.
BUNCH YTOP.
Banana,-growing went out of favor in
N.- 8. Wales when bunchy top smote the
plantations a few years ago. There has
been a remarkaMe revival, but bunchy-
top is still a danger. This article is
written by a man with special know-
ledge.
“Ento”: Bunchytop has characteristic
symptoms in the early stages of development.
Infection is indicated by a number of
dwarfed leaves bunched together. There-
after similar leaves may appear, but no
measurable growth is made by the stool;
though the plant does not die, fruit is not
formed. Suckers may be developed by such
a stool, but these are heavily charged with
the disease and remain stunted throughout
their life.
When bunchytop is present a stool shows
on a newly-thrown leaf the thickening and
interruption of lines of chlorophyll, result-
ing in the well-known dot-dash marking
which runs back on the otherwise clear strip
near the midrib of the leaf. The stool will
be found to harbor a colony of chocolate-
brown aphides, Pentalonia nigronervosa.
Pent, nig., the vector of bunchytop, passes
through the stages undergone by others of
its kind. A winged form, called the migrant,
leaves the stool and starts a new colony on
some other stool, the progeny being wingless
for many generations. At some distant stage a
winged form develops, and subsequently many
such migrants appear, all flying away to
some more or less distant plant. Those breed-
ing on diseased stools will carry the virus and
infect any other stool they may reach, as
well as set up a new colony on the stool now
destined to succumb to the disease. The
original colony will dwindle on for a time
and finally die out between nine and twelve
months after its initiation. Any colony
that is breeding migrants on a diseased stool
may, if the season is favorable to their
development, convey the virus to 400 or
500 other stools in the neighborhood. There
is no known check other than weather con-
ditions to keep the aphides in control. In
Southern Queensland and N. S. .Wales there
are four periods of the year when migrants
reach their peak development—(l) late
August and early September; (2) November;
(3) January-February; (4) March-April.
Scientists have not yet discovered the
nature of the virus. All they have ascer-
tained is that the disease spreads by aid of
(Continued on page 25 )


IkE'tfek-WSy
Milßing Machine
HOLDS THE RECORD FOR PURE MILK PRODUCTION, LOW RUNNING COSTS
SELECTED AND PURCHASED FOR QUEENSLAND AGRICULTURAL HIGH
SCHOOL AND COLLEGE, GATTON, ON ITS MERITS, BEING FIRST IN
1. Hygiene. 2. Simplicity. 3. Efficiency.
4. Minimum of Rubber Fittings.
5. Lowest First Cost and Cost of Upkeep.
g^HEBBBg
Individual Vacuum Pump in each Stall with Regulating
Valve. Can be adjusted to suit each cow.
m
0. T. GORN ALL’S Milking-shed. Twenty-five
stalls fitted with “NEW WAY.”
Reduced Facsimile.
9*jFvrgu>
**V«PMON* Central ® 7445
Bau.ow Chambers
Wickham Terrace
BRISBANE
I st February 30
SFSA.- W. A. Preston & Co.,
PATHOLOGICAL REPORT
Name
Specimen Submitted Milk samples.
(ll. First yield from udder
taken by hand.
(21. Taken through EewWay"
Object of Examination lker.
Plate count.
Method Agar plate. .48 hours oulture at 27°C(
Result '(l).1,180 organisms per 1 o.c.
(2) 610
Record Bacteria count “Less than 1000 per c.c.”
A 4-unit Releaser will milk 40 cows twice daily for a whole month on one
tin of Petrol.
We supply 4-unit “New Way” Milker, complete with engine and a set of
hardwood double stalls, with patent doors, seats and breeching-chams, for
£195 f.o.b. Brisbane.
Write for full particulars to
W. A. PRESTON & CO.,
Dairy Machinery Merchants, 175-179 Albert Street, Brisbane.
V-'
fit
Where EAST
IS WEST
Chinese New Year Celebration, China Town, San Francisco.
San Francisco’s Famous Chinatown, where Kipling s
well-known "Never the Twain Shall Meet” is dispelled,
and the colourful East indeed meets the West.
Here is a huge modern American City the Chinese have
fashioned for themselves, a city within a city —China-
town —where the architecture, life, manners, customs,
language —are wholly Chinese.
One of San Francisco’s chief show places. No visit to
San Francisco is complete without a peep into
Chinatown.
FARES' SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO, First Class, from £73;
Second Class, from £5O/10/- SYDNEY to NEW YORK, First
Class, from £95/14/-; Second Class, from £73/4/-. SIDNEY to
LONDON, from £97. ROUND THE WORLD, First Class, from
£219.
S.S. SIERRA S.S. SONOMA S.S. VENTURA
SAILING EVERY THIRD SATURDAY FROM CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY
For SUVA, PAGO PAGO, HONOLULU and SAN FRANCISCO
Special Cheap Excursion Tickets issued to Honolulu all the year round.
® OCEANIt SftAMSHIpCa
nATSON LINE
12 Bridge Street, Sydney
Local Mcllwraith, McEacharn Ltd.
Agents: Dalgety & Company Ltd.
Dalgety & Company Ltd.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Fremantle,
Albany.
Brisbane, and all Queensland Ports.
Write for descriptive
pamphlets, fare lists,
sailing dates, etc.
Name
Address
SUNSHINE HARVESTING MACHINES
■
■ Ilili
m
mm
MMi
j
**J* V *
\,.. _ - \W&B$£P:
wm
■ :
aisi
lillllllllll I
US
■
: ;.
■
THE SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER
12ft. Cut. Self Propelled. (See. top illustration.)
Will harvest 40 acres in a day. Petrol consumption half a gallon to
the acre. Two men only required, one to drive and one to tend the
bagging on the bagging platform. The Auto Header secures the
maximum yield of grain from every condition of crop, heavy or lrg t,
storm-flattened or weed-infested. It is Quick, Efficient and Eco-
nomical.
THE SUNSHINE HEADER HARVESTER
6ft., Bft. and 10ft. Cut. (See centre illustration.)
Sunshine Header Harvesters are renowned for their ability to pick
up and successfully harvest the worst down and tangled or thistle-
choked crops. They are equally effective in clean standing crops,
whether heavy or light, on hillside or level ground. #
For work on very sandy or hilly country, or for rice-harvesting, the
machine can be supplied with a 4-cylinder petrol engine incorporate
to drive the mechanism. A small team suffices for haulage.
The Sunshine Header Harvester also harvests field peas, and for
this purpose a special pea-reaping front is attached to the 6ft. or Bft.
machine. In consequence, peas can be profitably grown as a rotation
crop.
THE SUNSHINE STRIPPER HARVESTER
Type A.L. Bft. and 10ft. cut. (See bottom illustration.)
The light-draught harvester. Five horses pull it in normal crop, six
horses in heavy conditions. Side draught is reduced to a minimum.
Successfully harvests light and heavy crops.
ALSO THE SUNSHINE REAPER AND BINDER
Sweet running, sure tying, neat sheafing, long lasting, oft. and Bft. sizes.
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE.
_ ~ . _ . 0 AY/ , K/I iu 97 in p„ r(y< , Street West Svdnev; 95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide; Corner Murray
BRANCHES: 664 Bourke StJ^t p West, G. Btributors: H v McKay (Queensland), Ltd Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
Illustrated Descriptive Catalogues, Prices and Terms, posted free on request.


iiirrnmnrm
>
u\
sr
%
7
s
ss
r
X
I
2
I
DRINK WHISKY?
IT is a common mistake to suppose that a little whisky
is a suitable drink only at this or that time of day. Of
course there are occasions that call for whisky and for
nothing else. For example, after the eighteenth hole, or
the first act. But if you are wise, and go in for White
Horse, you will find other comers of the day when this
whisky is splendidly appropriate, as an appetiser or as a
liqueur, or when the day’s work is done.
It is so deep in its maturity that a man may drink White
Horse Whisky at any time.
WHITE House
Whisky


fat
V
•*rr.
m
mm
ET
mt
Narrow, medium, wide
and extra wide!
Because every full and half size
of this black velour calf Abbey
Shoe is offered in four fittings,
your foot is suited exactly.
There’s no tightness anywhere.
And the shoe is toughly, but
flexibly, soled with the finest
leather obtainable. The sides
are low-cut, the instep arch
curved to lie easily over the foot.
ORDER BY POST.
Specify width as well as length, and
order, also, the correct Abbey Pre-
servative Polish (6d. per tin), or a
handy cleaning outfit (2/6).
Black Velour Calf, 42/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street, and 224 Pitt
Street, Sydnev.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“All BEY BOOTS,” SYD.NEY.
FPL 196
The
Shave
Plough
Increases
Cultivation.
gfd
SHAVE’S PATENT STUMP-JUMP
REVERSIBLE DISC PLOUGH is the
lightest draught Plough on the
market, and requires only two horses
instead of four.
The SHAVE PLOUGH enables you
to make full and good use of all
uneven ground which is inaccessible
to the ordinary Plough.
The SHAVE PLOUGH is made in
FIVE different types:—
Type D.—The Standard
Plough (double furrow).
Type B.—Single - furrow
Plough.
Type M.—For Market Gar-
deners (with high wheels).
Type O.—For Orchardists.
Type H.—Hard Ground.
For further particulars, send for
illustrated Booklet.
O£A£»S
234-236 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
276-294 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy.
And at WARRNAMBOOL, BENDIGO,
HORSHAM, BALLARAT and PORTLAND,
VICTORIA.
For
American
Cars
LODGE
PLUGS
Are Unrivalled
They are invariably chosen by
the keen motorist who wishes
to get the very best out of his
car.
Stocked by all
garages throughout
the Commonwealth.
LODGE CT
|in. Regular
PRICE,
Suitable for
Auburn
Jewett
Nash (light 6)
Oldsmobile
Plymouth
Studebaker
(' Commander )
Whippet {four)
Willys-Knight
etc.
LODGE PLUGS,
LIMITED,
Rugby, England.
HI JC*!^
LM Mil MO I!
FAST TRAIN-
SERVICE ACROSS
CANADA"*
Ou>
M/y
sav e
fAe
b Usv Q i C ?r aio
°iaa
o u
?Urs
Siije s
aiJad
Ofi
s/i oa£j
O-ip
°fls
r o/p
a sfer
fAe
a flCo
(ive/
Aou
?ff/Jf,
*WS
CA
iQ? £o
Cap
saye s
a ua
tfte
gay
save
fans
env
op
or op f
e ep
Si «es s
and
ap c
opi
add
°ntr ea ]
ition
ose
«*UI
fAg/V
c °mf<
set
on
s Peed
and
stand
l ‘tis u
c °flv
ard
r Pas
?ni en
Alt
scd
? e taih
that
eratu
and
Oil)
Ustr
a fed
H
a ftat /
247
fan
eoj.
ffe
5f
■Syd
f*e e t
ney
t*, ti
'
ft-'
it
5«
rs.
o»^|
*0
»At^
•rt>
Tlw Worlds qiwtest travel system
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
(he aphis. Control measures are, for badly-
infested areas, the clearing of banana plants
throughout the district, the _ land being
allowed to lie fallow for a while, and then
replanted with suckers taken from a locality
within which bunchytop is unknown. Should
the disease reappear, the treatment follows
that applied to lightly-affected areas; the
aphides on the diseased stool, the. plant and
all suckers are destroyed. This is effective,
if systematically followed. Pet theories
should be tested away from the commercial
plantations, on stools specially grown for
the purpose, and aphides need to be pre-
vented from migrating from, stools used in
such tests.
A SEWAGE FARM FOR PERTH.
“Belmont”: Obviously Westralian Minis-
ters read The Man on the Land page. It
was here stated on 21/8/’3O that “a great
mistake was made in establishing unsightly
septic-tanks and filter-beds on the banks of
the Swan instead of pumping the sewage to
a farm between the river and the range’ ;
and an account of the sewage. farm at
Werribee (Vic.) followed. According to the
“Primary Producer,” which , reprints The
Bulletin’s description of Werribee, Lands
Minister Latham has just visited this farm,
with the following result: —
“Mr. Latham was so impressed with what
he saw that lie has asked the Surveyor-
General to ascertain if there is any land in
the metropolitan area which can be used to
start a similar farm here. As soon as the
matter is sufficiently advanced, the advice of a
Melbourne Water and Sew r erage Board engi-
neer and manager is to be made available to
the Westralian Government.”
Agricultural Minister Ferguson is as
favorable to a sewage farm as his colleague.
He points out that it “would provide graz-
ing facilities handy to the metropolitan mar-
kets for stock from the Far North and the
agricultural areas, a service only touched on
at present by comparatively small holding
paddocks owned by stock-agents near Mid-
land. With the aid of valuable sewage
elements, the sandy soil of the metropolitan
area would grow splendid lucerne and such
crops, which would be very valuable for
topping off.” Also Perth people, would get
a bigger and steadier supply of prime-quality
beef —a commodity which is scarcer over there
than in any other Australian cap tal, owing
to cattle landing poor after coming upwards
of. a thousand miles and being killed in the
same condition for lack of grass.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
What are the prospects of pig-grasing
(without cows ) within 50 miles of Sydney?
1 want lucerne country. Is this available,
and at what price? Where? Prospects for
the industry generally? —BBo2.
Provided it is possible to secure suitable
land, the prospects are good, though at
present prices for pigs are rather low.
Although pigs can be raised successfully
without being milk-fed, it is considered an
advantage if milk is provided for the younger
animals. The recognised lucerne country
within a l’adius of 50 miles of Sydney is
mainly in the Windsor, Richmond, Camden
and similar districts, the better quality
alluvial land varying in price from £6O to
£OO per acre.
Best site for a piggery? Best soil for
building piggery upon?- —-8964.
The site must be capable of being effec-
tively drained, preferably with a gentle slope
and an easterly aspect. The drainage should
be of a surface kind, the result of the slope,
and should not depend upon underground
drains. Arrange site so that prevailing winds
don’t carry the smell of the piggery to the
homestead. Light, absorbent, sandy loams
are preferable to stiff clays or soils with a
clay subsoil. • Where there is a good fall,
however, clays are not objectionable. • <
Cost of course in pig-raising at an ag. coll,
and length of term? —8678.
The piggery short course at Hawkesbury
(N.S.W.) Coll, extends over five months.
The fees are £l6 10s. for N.S.W. students
and £3l 10s. for inter-State and other
students.
(1) What is “founder,” as applied to
horses? (2) Are “roaring ” and “ broken
wind ” synonymous? (3) What are the
symptoms of either of these conditions? (4)
Would amare suffering from either fault be
suitable for breeding? (5) Would she trans-
mit the fault to her offspring? (6) What
causes the complaints mentioned in (2) ?
8754.
(1) The term generally applies to lamimtis,
an inflammatory condition of certain sensi-
tive structures of the hoof. (2) No. (3) A
“roarer” produces a characteristic laryngeal
sound at each inspiration; this may only be
noticed when the animal has been exercised.
An animal that is “wind-broken” generally
shows a double expiratory effort. A cough may
also be noticed, sometimes called a “graveyard”
cough. (4) and (-5) Roaring is sometimes
hereditary, and if such is the case, the con-
dition may be passed on to the offspring. A
broken-winded animal cannot be cons : dered
to have inherited the complaint, and is con-
sidered quite safe for breeding purposes.
(6) Roaring may be hereditary, or may have
resulted from strangles, influenza,, pneumonia
or purpura hsemorrhagiea. Various factors
may cause an animal to become wind-broken,
such' as certain lung complaints or excessive
exercise when the animal is in an unfit con-
dition.
How to prevent cutworms from damaging
wheat? —8976.
They can be poisoned with bran and Paris
green, mixed while dry. Water is then added
at the rate of 3 gallon's to every 241 b. of
bran, salt being dissolved in tlm water at
the rate of Jib- to each 3 gallons. The
crumbly mash is carried in sacks and scat-
tered by hand over the infested area, and for
20ft. into the uninfested portion of the crop
at the rate of about 251 b. per acre.
T have about £BO9. am 35, no farming ex-
perience, but physically fit. What type of
farming could I profitably take up? —B927.
Experience is required to ensure success.
Endeavor to obtain employment on some
farm. This will enable you to gain experi-
ence and reach a decision in regard to the
ciass of farming that will best suit you.
N.S.W. Agricultural Dept, is prepared to
advise inquirers in regard to the type of
farming for which they are likely to be
fitted.
Types of lemons that sell host for manu-
facturing purposes and fresh-fruit, trade.
Hints regarding picking for both markets?
—B9Bl.
Manufacturers require a large, fairly thick-
skinned fruit, which is attained by allowing
the fruit to ripen thoroughly on the tree.
Tt is placed in sacks or cases after picking.
For the fresh-fruit market lemons should
be , medium-sized, thin-skinned and with the
juice well developed. The fruit must be
carefully handled so as to avoid bruising,
and properly packed. Clipping of the fruit,
is recommended, as pulling is liable to
damage the trees.
How to grow the wild peach-tree some-
times referred to as the quandong? —-8366.
Seeds should be sown in midsummer their
own depth in a shallow box and covered with
a sheet of corrugated-iron. Place in the
open to get the full benefit of the sun and
keep the soil moist. Take the iron away
when the seeds have germinated.
Hoio to plant peach and plum, stones? —
8428.
Peach or plum pits may be sown in a bed
that is kept moist, as ’soon as they are
taken from the ripe fruit, or they may be
stratified in moist sand as soon as they are
removed from the ripe fruit and kept in the
moist sand until the following spring, then
sown. It is preferable to expose the stored
pits to the frost.
Can crushed peanuts be used as a food
for fowls? If so, how often and in what
quantities should they be fed? —8852.
Peanut meal, a by-product of the nut after
the oil has been extracted, is used fairly
extensively as a poultry food concentrate.
Up to five per cent, of ground peanuts could
be added to the morning mash if desired.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Poker”: When the woolpack is put in the
press long threads of jute fibre are often
found inside. These should be cut off and
taken out. When sewing bales odd threads
are often strewn about the floor and are
picked up with the wool. It pays to hang
near the press a small bag, into which odd
threads can be , placed.
“O. W. Waireki”: Pluck the wool from
dead sheep with your left hand—it’s easy
enough. You never can tell when a scratch
will cause trouble, and it’s better to have
your left hand out of action than your
right. Wash hands well in hot water, using
carbolic soap, after plucking.
“Bill R.”: Lopping the branches of kurra-
jongs. willows or other fodder trees to feed
starving sheep is an unecononrcal method.
Instead fasten a length of copper wire to
the thong of a stockwhip and thresh off the
leaves alone. In a couple of weeks a new
harvest of leaves will be ready, whereas on
lopped trees they do not grow again till
next springtime.
“Bendee”: Analysis of water supply,
especially if from bores, will help in compos-
ing a sheep lick. Ewes in lamb will be
better -without salt during the latter half
of the gestation , period, but will require an
added amount of salt when rearing the lamb
at foot.
“Bill R.”: A cow doing poorly on good
pastures and with her skin tightly drawn
over her emaciated frame is hidebound. Give
her a drench—lib. of Epsom salts, 2oz. of
ground ginger and a half-p’nt of molasses
mixed in a quart of warm water; and until
she Shows signs of improvement supplement
her ration with small quantities of bran,
crushed oats and linseed meal. Also to each
feed add a pint of molasses thinned with
half a pint of tepid water.
“Go Do”: A queer fact about spotted wilt
of tomatoes (B. 3/9/’3O) is that plants
belonging tb the So'anum family are also
susceptible to the disease. The practical way
to handle spotted wilt is to destroy ail
diseased p’ants, spray to keep down insects
and keep the paddock and headlands free of
weeds.
“Nyah”: Don’t pull out those “profit-
less” mandarins if they are thriving. N.S.W.
has done this on a reckless scale. The result,
I prophesy, will be a scarcity of mandarins,
with good prices, in a few years.
“Notwen”: If you have a few siek-looking
citrus trees in an otherwise healthy patch
on ah irrigation block, you may be pretty
sure they are not getting enough water. A
soil auger (a blacksmith will make one
for a few shillings) may disclose a hard
bar running under the roots. Flooding right
round the trees at next irrigation will work
wonders.
“Gardener”: If poss ; ble buy your seed
in loose lots. In N.S.W. the Canadian
Wonder bean costs sixpence per four-ounce
packet; you can get a pound loose for a
shilling. It is the same with other lines. Get
into the habit of buying with your neighbors
and pocket the difference.
“Jerso”: “E.11.M.” (B. 3/9/’3O) and his
beetle-borer traps won’t win any support in
Queensland, where many new so-called cures
have proved duds. Dipping the roots of
suckers in coal-tar looked promising, but
you still find the borer where it has been
tried; and Paris-green and flour-baiting have
given poor results on the Government experi-
mental farm. A number of men claim that
they can control the beetle. Only one is
witling to move without liberal reward con-
ditions.
“G. Drill”: It is Close on 90 years since
preaeher-flourmiller-farmer John Ridley, of
S'. Ans., made a machine which nulled the
ears of standing wheat and threshed them:
and 46 years since a 19-year-old Vic. lad
named Hugh McKay, after careful study of
R’dley’s invention, added a winnowing device
and Various other improvements. McKay’s
faith iii his machine was not shared by
others, and for four years he travelled around
his native State on a bicye’e trying to get
capital to start a factory. The fruits of his
persistence were to b n seen at the Melbourne
R. A. S. Show —a wide range of implements,
headed by Sunshine auto-headers, header-
harvesters. str'pper-harvesters and reapers-
and-binders. Ploughs, drills, cultivators,
rollers, chaffcuttprs, farm petrol-engines—
all these are made in the Sunshine works,
and, as might be expected, are ideally suited
to Australian conditions. It is a big industry
and one that has been of inestimable benefit
to the Australian farmer.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
Ihe service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
lo avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must confined to one subject.
ie , of selection and rejection is reserved.
\\ anted to Sell ’ or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Wanted, middle of October, active man with
knowledge of farm work, machinery, motor license.
Western N.5.W.—9045.
Jackeroo wanted, s.-w. Queensland. G.P.S. bov
preferred.—7o6o.
W anted, about Nov., strong reliable girl (about
17) ; cooking and gen. household duties, Stanthorpe
(Q.) district.—9ll2.
Carpenter (N.S.W.) wants work of any kind any-
where.—9ol7.
Returned soldier (Sydney), married, exp. saddler,
book- and storekeeper, gardener, wants job anywhere.
—9106.
Ex-soldier, Vic., wants position as personal servant
to gentleman or other position of trust. —9030.
Man (28), N.S.W., wants job brushing, ringing,
suckering, grubbing.—9o67.
Young surveyor , and draughtsman (N.S.W.) wants
work of any kind anywhere.—9o2s.
\\ ell educ. youth (20) wants job as jackeroo or
book-keeper on station, Aus. or Islands.—9o6B.
outh (20), Hawkesbury Col. dip., knowledge
mechanics, wants job with chance of promotion.—
9070. ' «
loung lady (25), business college dip., wants
position on station as companion-secretary. Refs.
N.S.W. or Q’land preferred.—B9ls.
To buy, second-hand, scores of Gilbert and Sullivan
operas.—9o23.
To buy copy of T. C. Roughley’s “Fishes of Aus-
tralia and Their Technology.”—9ol6.
To buy recent issues “Sales Management” (Amer.
mag.).—9072.
To buy “Australian Nursery Rhymes” (1917) -
9104.
Partner with capital of £lOO to £2OO for pros-
pecting, sandalwood-getting, fishing, etc., on Cape
Yoi'k Pen.—9o94.
Information Sought.
Is it, possible for an amateur to malce
gramophone records? Wliat plant is neces-
sary?—B3SS.
Apparatus is on the market to enable
individuals to make home recordings, but it
would be impossible for an amateur to make
records similar to those produced by the
manufacturing companies, as a very expen-
sive and elaborate plant is required.
(1) How are telegraph operators in the
employ of cable companies recruited? (2)
Commencing salary? (3) Is it possible for
an unmarried operator to secure transfers
to various parts of the world? (4) Must
an operator employed by a British co. have
a knowledge of languages other than Eng-
lish?— 8731.
(1) From the head office of the Eastern
Extension, Melbourne. But no probationers
are likely to be taken on for years. The
last batch were discharged. (2) £24, rising
to £6O in first year. (3) Operators are
liable for service in Australasia aud Far
East. (4) No.
(1) How to make a quick-drying backing
for photographic plates? (2) When a pan-
chromatic film has been developed in a
Kodak tank and the developer contains no
desensitiser, is it necessary to carry out the
operation of transferring the film from the
apron after development to the fixing bath
in complete darkness? (3) What is the duty
on British photographic films and bromide
papers? (4) What is the H. and D. speed
of Kodak film? (5) What advantage is
gained by using orthochromatic plates
for landscape photography? (6) Arc
slow> orthochromatic plates procurable in Aus-
tralia. and what are their H. and D. speeds?
-—8507.
(1) A fairly efficient backing can be made
by mixing loz. powdered burnt sienna, loz.
gum arabic and ioz. glycerine in lOoz. water.
You must wash this off before developing.
You can buy plates backed by the makers at
a small extra charge, and in that case no
preliminary washing is necessary. (2) No.
You can use a Kodak “safelight” lamp of the
type designed for panchromatic films. (3) On
roll film 25 p.c. or Bd. per sq. ft., on bromide
papers 25 p.c. or Id. per sq. ft., whichever
is greater, plus 2% p.c. primage duty and
24 p.c. sales tax. (4 ) 250. (5) A slight
correction of the tendency of the non-ortho-
chromatic plate to reproduce red and yellow
as black and blue as white. To get proper
correction with any sort of plate filter screens
should be used, the density depending on, the
subject. (6) Not procurable, but you will
get very good results with Austral Standard
orthochromatics, H. and D. speed 250.
What is the qualification of a shire engi-
neer under the Vie. Local Government Act?
—8764.
He must be the holder of a certificate from
the Municipal Surveyors’ Board,, which
issues certificates either as a result of exami-
nation or by qualification. Candidates for
certificates by examination must have passed
some uni., the Leaving examination or its
equivalent, and must have either served three
years under articles with a practising civil
engineer, or have had three years’ experience
in designing or executing civil engineering
work. The subjects for examination are
surveying, principles of engineering con-
struction, drainage and sanitary engineering,
road and street engineering. Certificates are
issued without examination to corporate
members of the Institute of Civil. Engineers,
London, and holders of the degree of M C.E.
or B.C.E. of Melbourne Uni., or of qualifica-
tions deemed equal thereto, who can produce
evidence that they have for a period of not
less than three years been engaged in carry-
ing out works such as are usually super-
vised by a municipal surveyor or engineer.
Who was Semiramis? —8727.
Semiramis, according to mythology, was
queen of Assyria, wife of Ninus, the founder
of Nineveh. She was the daughter of the
Syrian fish-goddess Derceto, and married
Onues, one of Niims’s generals. When Onnes
was. engaged in the siege of Bactra, Semi-
ramis led a forlorn hope against the citadel,
and captured it and the town. Thereupon
Ninus resolved to marry her, and Onnes slew
himself. After Ninus’s death Semiramis
ruled, founded many cities and built
many marvellous buildings, including her
husband’s tomb at Nineveh. She built Baby-
lon, conquered Egypt and Libya, and unsuc-
cessfully attempted to conquer India.. After
a reign of 42 years she resigned the throne
to her son Ninyar, and went to Heaven in
the shape of a 'dove.
(1 ) Extent of Australia’s private wealth
as estimated under various headings? (2)
Private wealth per head of population? —
S7S6.
(1) An estimate as at June 30, 1925, was
as follows: Land and improvements,
£1,784,673,000; livestock, £237 543,000 ; agri-
cultural, dairying and pastoral implements
and machinery, £45,143,000: manufacturing
plant and machinery, £103,699,000; mining
properties (including plant and machinery,
£3*8,801,000; coin and bullion, £58.960 000;
private railways and tramways, £14,302,000;
shipping, £9,230,000; agriculture and pas-
toral products, £121,966 000 ; locally-manu-
factured products, £122.272.000; mining
products other than gold, £3,704,000; im-
ported merchandise, £78,572.000; clothing
and personal adornments, £29 646 000 ; fur-
niture and fittings, books. £118,034,000;
motor vehicles, £69,079.000; aircraft,
£59.000; wireless stations. £1,219,000. Total,
£2,536,902,000. (2) £478.
Are albinos half-castes? What are their
chief distinguishing characteristics? If not
half-castes, what causes them to be different
in appearance to normal individuals? —B769.
No, they are pigmentless individuals of
a normally pigmented race. In the human
albino the skin is transparent, white and
pink; the hair white, as in old age; the
iris a pinkish grey, or, in negroes, blue;
the pupil contracted and bright red. The
chief predisposing cause appears to be un-
healthiness of climate, such as that of low-
lying tropical countries; it may also be due
to congenital arrest of development, and is
sometimes associated with other malfor-
mations ; but it often occurs in persons who
are otherwise normal.
If I sold a property in N.S.W. which I
have had since 1912, icliat taxes would I
have to pay? —Bslo.
Local taxes such as municipal and water
rates, also land tax (if any) up to date of
sale. As you purchased the property prior
to July 1, 1924, and not for re-sale, profit
made on the transaction is not subject to
income tax. The purchaser pays all costs
of conveyance, such as stamp duty, etc.
(1) Can the owner of the copyright of a
book copyrighted in Australia prevent the
importation into Australia of unauthorised
copies of the book printed elsewhere? (2)
What, procedure should the owner of the
copyright follow to prevent such importa-
tion?— 8~00.
(1) The Copyright Act makes provision
for such copies to “be deemed to be prohi-
bited imports.”. (2) The owner of the copy-
right should give notice in writing to the
Comptroller-General of Customs that he is
desirous that such copies should not be im-
ported into the Commonwealth.
In what parts of the world has the 24-
hour clock been adopted, and is it in use in
any English institutions? What are its
advantages as against the 12-hour clock? —
8708.
N.S.W. Government Astronomer states
that he is not aware that any country has
definitely adopted the 24-hour clock for
general use, but such clocks are in use in
all observatories throughout the world. In
these institutions it has a great advantage
over the 12-hour clock, especially so the
clocks that keep sidereal time. The posi-
tion known as the right ascension of the
heavenly bodies (somewhat akin to geo-
graphical longitude) is given in time
throughout the 24 hours, hence direct from
the clock face we know if a particular body
is then visible in the sky. ,
(1) I am a bachelor, aged 66, born in
M.L., and have rcsid d there until just
recently. If / return from Australia to my
own country before Christmas, shall / be
entitled to the old-age pension? (2) Age
at which pension is payable? (3) Rate of
pension? (4) Yearly income allowable? (5)
Value of accumulated property allowable?—
8699.
(1) Yes, if you have resided continuously
in M.L. for the last 25 years, and your
absences have not exceeded two years in the
aggregate, and . provided you have not been
guilty of specified misdemeanors and are
w’>h ; n the income and property-allowance
limits. (2) In your case, 65. (3) £45 10s.
(4) In your case, £97 10s. (5) £460.
(1) Meaning of Ghetto? (2) Origin of
the word? —B77o.
(1) Formerly the street or quarter of a
town in which Jews were compelled to live,
enclosed by walls and gates which were
locked each night. The term is now applied
to any locality in a city or country where
Jews congregate. (2) One theory traces it
to “gietto,” the foundry at Venice near
wh’ch was the first Jews’ quarter of that
city. More probably the word is an abbre-
viation of the Italian “borghetto,” diminu-
tive of “bargo.” a borough.
What is lamp-black • how is it made, and
what are its uses?-- 8792.
Lamp-black is finely-powdered carbon
manufactured from scraps of resin and pitch
refuse inferior oils and fats, and other com-
bustible substances rich in carbon. It is
used in the manufacture of printing ink,
black paint, stains and Indian ink.
(1) Procedure necessary to secure permit
to travel to New Guinea and conditions
under which permits are issued? (2) Cun
•persons in New Guinea possess firearms for
their own protection? —B496.
(1) He must obtain a permit from the
Collector of Customs in his State. Before
a permit is issued he is required to produce
a clearance certificate from the taxation
authorities, and to furnish evidence that he
is'proceeding to assured employment in New
Guinea, or that he holds a return steamer
tick t, and not less than £5O. (2) A permit
must be obtained from the Licensing Officer
for the 1 district in which the appl-cation is
made, and the firearm must be registered.
What steps are being talcen by the N.S.W.
Main Roads Board regarding the erection
'of advertising hoardings on the Main West-
ern-road ? —BBB7.
The board has requested the municipal
and shire councils throughout the State to
refrain from granting any further approvals
to signs bearing advertisements, and to
secure the removal as soon as possible from
main roads of the numerous advertisements
which have, with or without the councils’
permission, been affixed to trees, rocks and
fences. The board has no jurisdiction over
hoardings on private lands unless they create
a danger, but has asked the councils to do
their utmost to restrict their erection. Many
councils have promised to do so. .
Three years ago 1 sold a block of unim-
proved city land to a man on terms. He has
defaulted in his payments. I am told that
if 1 do not take legal steps to collect the
remainder of the debt he can claim a title
to the land. Is this true? —8919.
An action to recover a simple contract
debt must be brought within six years from
the time the cause of action accrued. If the
land is under Torrens title lie cannot
acquire any right against you by adverse pos-
session.
Wh'tt is the Australian “cream of tartar”
tree like? Where does it grow, and can its
fruit be eaten? —B9ss.
It is an endemic species confined to North-
ern Australia and hardly distinguishable
from the baobab-tree of South Africa. It
is a large tree with a girth out of propor-
tion to its height; some specimens attain
a circumference of 80ft. at 2ft. from the
ground. It grows on sandy plains and low
stony rides from the Glenelg River to. Arn-
hem’s Land, rarely above 160 miles inland.
The huge trunk acts as a storage reservoir
of food and moisture. The fruit, which
resembles a small gourd, is about 6ft. long
and fin. in diameter; its dry, acidulous pulp
has an agreeable taste, and is peculiarly
refreshing in the sultry climates of its habi-
tat. It consists of gum, starch, sugary mat-
ter and malic acid, and is said to taste
like cream of tartar.
(If What are the working conditions of
journalists in Japan and China on the larger
papers, and what chance icould a junior
reporter (Australian) stand of getting a job
on one? (2) Any likelihood of a reporter
of the same grade getting a job in the east-
ern States of Australia?- —8878.
(1) Foreign staff is comparatively well
paid, but junior reporting largely done by
native employees. Much unemployment in
both .China and Japan. (2) Practically none
in Melbourne or Sydney. Staffs generally
being reduced.
Colors of the galah, size, and when do
they commence to talk? How should they
, be fed and looked after? —8390.
Back and tail, light grey; wings, darker
grey; crown of head, pinky white; face,
neck and underparts, rich rose pink. ; Total
length, 14in. Some galahs make very good
talkers, and may commence at about six
months of age. Feed on cracked corn, with
an occasional raw carrot or any green food,
also fruit. Some fanciers feed their birds
on a mixture of two parts canary seed, two
parts white millet, 1 part hemp, 1 part
oats, 1 part sunflower seed, 1 part peanuts.
A small piece of hard wood with bark on
should be placed in the cage to provide exer-
cise for the bill, and so keep it in good con-
dition. The cage should be large enough to
allow the bird to flap its wings. The galah
must have an occasional spray bath.
Is it necessary for the executors of a will
to send in income tax forms for the portion
of the financial year during which testator
was alive? —S3B7.
For State purposes, if taxpayer died
prior to the 30th June in any year the
executors are not required to furnish a return
of his income up to the date of his death.
If the estate of deceased was subject to
Federal Estate Duty, a return up to date
of death is not required for Federal pur-
poses. Where no Federal Estate Duty has
been paid, a return is required from Ist
July previous to date of death of taxpayer
up to the date of death.
_ To what extent did the Australian abo-
rigine go in for boat-building? —B96s.
Canoes are found among the lake and
river tribes and on parts of the coast. They
are commonly made of a large sheet of bark
removed from a tree trunk, and shaped into
form by heating. On some parts of the
north coast there are wooden canoes with
outriggers; in other parts catamarans are
found made of several logs of light wood
tied together.
(1) Demand for medicinal herbs in Aus-
tralia? (2) Could they be grown locally, and
from whom could I obtain first-hand informa-
tion regarding cultivation? (3) Literature
on the subject? —B9s6.
(1) There is always a demand-for medi-
cinal plants, properly grown and dried and
of standard quah'ty. (2) Experiments
enrried on in N.S.W. were not a success.
The herbs were poor in quality,' and of no
commercial value. Better success-was met
with in Vic., but the range and quantity were
small. Write to Felton, Grimwade and Go.,
, FHnders-lane, Melbourne, on this point. (3)
Write to the of Agriculture, Washing-
ton, U.S.A., for series of pamphlets on cul-
tivation of medicinal plants.
Does Anybody Know?
How to cure a saddle-horse that pulls back
when tied up, breaking reins and bridles?—
9048.
Brief Answers.
E.F.: Write Secretary, Air Board
Defence Department, Melbourne, for R.A.A.F. Publi-
cation No. 3 (free), containing particulars regarding
entry to the R.A.F. Cadet College, Cranwell, Eng
land. .. .H.G.: Sandalwood growing on a WA
miner’s homestead lease cannot be cut by the lessee
without permission from the Conservator of Forests
....F.R.: It varies, but the odds are that he
wouldn t... .L.Y.: Since 1896 no convicts have been
sent from France to New Caledonia, and the convict
element in the population is decreasing. RJ M •
Regent Motor Co., 407 St. Kilda-road, Melbourne,'are
agents for the Brocklebank car... .C.R.8.: (l) Bank-
ruptcy arises where a debtor makes a conveyance or
assignment of his property to a trustee for the
benefit of his creditors, or where the creditors them-
selves petition the Court to do so and an order for
sequestration is made. (2) Discharge may be abso-
lute or may be subject to conditions with regard to
earnings, income or acquired property... ,F WF •
See article “Canberra” in Vol. I of “The ’ Australian
Encyclopedia,’’ available N.S.W. Public Library
T.P.: Can’t answer questions relating to anybody’s
private affairs... .R.F.F.: The point of the jest is
that Mussolini was expected to arrive on horseback
and came in a motor-ear. . ..S.R.: Measles is not
a notifiable infectious disease in N.S.W s.L.:
(1) Cherry-picking will probably start at Young
about October 25. (2) Prospects are for a moderate
to light crop J.H.P.: Write Microbiological
Laboratory, Public Health Dept., Sydney C.A.F.:
A is not, entitled to a refund; it was his duty to
maintain the security unimpaired. .. .F.E.8.: Wode-
house, family name of the Kimberley Earldom, is
pronounced Woodhouse. Wodehouse the novelist pro-
nounces his name as spelt... .J.S.P. and A.R.M.C.:
Write Angus and Robertson, Sydney J.M.D.:
(1) Yes. (2) Clyde Refinery, Clyde (N.S.W.). (3)
Yes. (4) Yes A. J.C.R.: Write Air Board, Defence
Dept., Melbourne, and state what you want to
become—mechanic or , cadet. It •is unlikely that
further appointments will be made in, the Air, Force for
some considerable time J.M.: Stott’s Correspond-
ence College, 96 Russell-street, Melbourne J.H.:
Worth not more than its published price B.D. :
See “The Australian and N.Z. Writers’ and Artists’
Year Book” (Price, 2s. 6d.) ... .E.V.H.: The growth
'of subterranean and other clovers in Queensland
, does not compare favorably with that in more
southerly latitudes, due to a lesser rainfall in the
winter and spring. Try burr or “Nature” trefoil
(3/ edicago deriticulala) if you do not graze sheep.
... . K.A.: It is a giant fish-killer (Lethocerus indicus),
a bug that can both swim and fly, found in the
seas from India to Australia. See Tillyard’s “In-
. sects of Australia and New Zealand” N.H. J. ; The
modern meaning of Philistine is a person deficient in
.culture and enlightment, whose interests are chiefly
bounded by material and commonplace things. Often
applied contemptuously by connoisseurs of an art or
department of learning to one who has no knowledge
-or appreciation of it....8.C.: (1) See Johnson’s
“History. of the Pirates” (vol. II). (2) It is a
dictionary of synonyms. Price, 10s., obtainable from
Angus and Robertson, Sydney. (3) Try leading-
second-hand booksellers... . A.L.A.: (1) N.S.W. Un-
employment Relief Tax should be collected in respect
of all nayments made or credited on and after July
I, 1930, irrespective of the period during which
they were earned. (2) If the carrier is not an
employee, he will be assessed for the tax on the
basis of his income-tax return for the year ended
June 30, 1930.... J.S.M.: It is illegal to take water
from such a lagoon for irrigation without authority.
. ...H.E.8.: N.S.W. farm and station employees are
not covered by State award, and the declaration as to
the living wage made by the State Industrial Com-
mission does not extend to rural employees. There
is a Federal award and inquiries as to this should
be addressed to the Deputy Industrial Registrar,
Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitra-
tion, Court House, Darlinghurst. .. .C.R.W.: The
price quoted is correct.... D.H.: Write Broomham
Bros., Ann-street, Willoughby (N.S.W.). The skin
should be 12in. to 18in. between the horns. In
skinning cut down the back, leaving full heads and
tails, skinning from point of nose to tip of tail.
Liberally salt the skins after allowing to cool.
Place flesh to flesh when drying... . H.M.E.: (1)
and (2) Yes. See Town and Shire Clerks’ (State)
Award and local Government Engineers’ (State)
Award. Obtainable from Government Printer, Syd-
ney (4d. each). There have been slight variations,
but the basis on which salaries arc fixed has not
been altered W.S.F.: Write Under-Secretary,
Dept, of Lands, Brisbane. .. .S.H.; (1) His parents
were Cornish. (2) The Cape Barron goose has never
been known to cross with the domestic goose. (3)
The wild duck will cross with the domestic duck.
Hvbrids can be seen every day in Centennial Park,
Sydney... .5.8.: Anthony Trollope, the novelist,
visited Australia in 1871 and 1875. .. .W.P.: A
solution of camphor in turpentine is used to facilitate
the cutting or boring of glass with steel instruments.
....W.J.A.: Rabbit-skins Is. to Is. 6dn per lb.;
good-quality ’possum-skins 30s. to 40s. per doz.
W.P.L.: In 1928-29, M.L. exported 78,369 tons
butter; Australia, 45,733 tons ; Q’land, 20,093 tons.
For 1929-30 Maoriland’s export was 90,890 tons.
J.H.C.: (1) Milton C. Work’s “Auction Bridge
Complete” and R. F. Foster’s “Bridge Tactics.” (2)
No Australian publication. Manning-Foster’s “Bridge
Magazine” (London) can be got from Sydney book-
seller's. .. .C.R.: N.S.W.’law prohibits us from supply-
ing information regarding foreign lotteries... .E.H.:
Frank Hambridge, 22 Bridge-street, Sydney.... J.M.:
No refund for any forfeiture of pay. ... J.M.D.:
Write A. E. Smith, violin expert, Hunter-street,
Sidney... .W.E.G.: “Flowerless Plants” and “Flow-
ering Plants,” by D. H. Scott; “Practical Botany
for Beginners,” by Bower and Gwynne-Vaughan;
“Textbook of Botany,” by Strasburger; and “Uni-
versity Textbook of Botany,” by Campbell....
H.A.R.: You should not attempt home treatment for
warts on the face. See a skin specialist.... P.A.S.:
Write Australian Massage Association, 185 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney... .W.T.: A bonemill is not likely
to pay on a small scale'. Ordinary slaughterhouse
bones must be' defatted before crushing... .L.S.: (1)
Cupels are ' not manufactured locally and there is
no prospect of their being made here. (2) Very
little demand for bone-ash. Price 70s. per cwt. (3)
Get in touch with leading machinery merchants
J. : (1) Poison baits containing strychnine or
arsenic are used to destroy wallabies. (2) Can’t help
unless we know with what the dog was poisoned....
W.A.W.: (1) The painters’ (State) award, as varied
Jan. 24, 1930, prescribes a rate of 2s. 9 13-22 d.
per hour for a 44-hour week for signwriters (N.S.W.).
(2) Write Manager, State Labor Exchange, George
'street North, Sydney H. J.: S’African financial
conditions are a little better than Australian. Very
little prospect of clerical employment. Immigrants
must deposit £5O with the Government on landing.
E.C.D.: One cow, 19 horses, 80 sheep. Know
of no means of solving problem save by “trial and
error”... .W.1.H.T.: You are not subject to income
tax; your employer is liable for relief tax on your
wages, having deducted it from them. The relief
tax doesn’t apply to interest on Commonwealth bonds.
.... (Many others mailed.)


PHILIPS
ARGENTA
m
lhecla:
&
0
f
o
fdg
"
■r-Ml-
IWIVE
HECTH.IC
EUCTTOC
nnouncement!
We have pleasure in announcing
that we have opened a most up-
to-date and well-equipped
ELECTRICAL SHOWROOM
which we cordially invite you to
visit.
We have a very comprehensive
stock, and can give prompt ser-
vice. We would be pleased to
have your enquiries or orders for
all classes of electrical equip-
ment, including
V.I.R. and Bare Wires, Cables
and Flexibles
“Philips” Lamps
“Hecla” Radiators, Jugs,
Calofonts, Grillers, etc.
“Universal” Stoves, Washers,
and Vacuum Cleaners
“Marelli” Fans (Desk and
Ceiling Types).
If you cannot call in, please write for illustrated
booklets, describing any of the above, which will
be sent with pleasure by return mail.
fd
gdf
L
-
WILLIAM ADAMS € COM PAHY
___» LI M ITEP
175 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
♦ v
s
g


fdg
“Room only” Rates
Single Room from 12/- per day
Double Room from 22/6 per day
Single Room with Private Bath and
Toilet from 21/- per day
Double Room with Private Bath
and Toilet from 30/- per day
Suites with Private Bath and Toilet from 40/- per day
Breakfast
2/- and 3/6. And a la carte.
Light, Luncheon
in the Winter Garden, 2/6.
Luncheon and Dinner
a la carte in Grill Room, mini-
mum 4/-; a la carte in Dining
Hall, minimum 5/-.
The Australia Hotcl
Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney/'
BMiMraa
■
■
SMOKE-OH!
THE NEW FATHER WILLIAM.
■ You. are old, Father William,” the young
man said,
’ Full seventy-five, if a day,
3 et you re into the breakers ere I’m out of
led.
How the deuce do you manage it, eh?”
”3 0(< must be a woefully ignorant youth,”
Responded the sage as he landed,
"N ot to have any inkling at all of the truth.
1 ve simply been simian-glandcd.”
* *
It is estimated that 3 miles 6 furlongs and 25
yards of calico 3 feet wide will be used for poli-
tjcal slogans during the N.S.W. elections.”
The objective being 90 perches.
Shakspeare, who understood human nature so well,
said All men are liars.’ ” — “Sunday Sun.”
And very annoyed David was, we may
be sure, when news of Bill’s impudent
plagiarism reached the celestial regions.
He was fat to the point of absurdity. 9 ’
— “World’s News ”
So much so that people made jokes at
his expanse.
CONTRADICTION IN TERMS.
Ah me, how blonde she is, how Saxon-fair;
Milk-white her skin and honey-gold her hair.
But having married her, to my disgust
I find that though she's fair she is unjust!
Pom.
* *
“Billycans, lunch-bags, hats and broken cups
were scattered about the wharf during the fight on
the waterfront.”— “Herald.”
In fact several married stevedox*es said it
made them feel quite home-sick.
* *
“I called at the library for a book and was fined
for illegal parking.”—•• lndignant Motorist” in “S.
M. Herald.”
The booker booked, so to speak.
WHAT SHALL THE HARVEST BE?
“Just got my divorce, dear.”
“Wish you alimony returns of the day, pet.”
“Mr. John Doyle, said the speaker, was not only
a good Christian, but the spirit of prophecy con-
ferred on the ancient saints seems to have dwelt
with him.”— “Sun.”
Hence his nickname: “The good Doyle.”
PERSONALIA.
“Mr. Blank was for many years a bushranger in
the employ of the N.S.W. Forestry Department.”
— “Sun” personal.
This candor —evidently an attempt by the
Combine to give value for the extra 50 p.c.
—is bound to be imitated.
“News” : “Mr. Blanky-Blank, who departed
yesterday on extended leave, which he intends
to spend by the sea at Long Bay, is one of
the pickpockets employed by the Taxation
Department.”
“Guardian” : “A well-known burglar in the
employ of the Gas Company, Mr. Slot-Meter,
was yesterday presented, by himself, with a
wallet of notes stolen from the General
Manager in, celebration of his silver jubilee
in the Company’s service.”
“Pictorial” : “Mr. Kerbside, of Rookem and
Dupe, confidence men, Pitt-street, is at present
in hospital, suffering from lockjaw. He was
required to swallow his own words by a
client to whom he had offered the Domain
at £1 an acre.”
¥ ¥
“Originally a mariner, he turned to the Church
and became a bishop at a comparatively early
age.”— “Church News.”
Although to sheep from ships he turned,
But little change made he;
For first to sail the sea he yearned,
And then he souled the see.
* ¥
“Fickle fashion has decreed the almost anything
shall be fashionable for the coming season.”
— “Guardian.”
As against the almost nothing of last
season.
* *
“In Melbourne the average number of hours of
sunshine on a September day is 57.”— “Herald.”
And there are people who advocate day-
light-saving for Melbourne!
* *
“He played a small part with J. C. Williamson in
Australia, and is now starting in New York.”
— “Ne'i s.”
Having found a better role, presumably.
* *
“An able billiards-player is likely to do well at
miniature golf.”— “S. M. Herald.”
Provided he avoids the losing hazards, of
course.
BALANCING THE BUDGET,
“By death duties on the £747,947 estate left
by Geoffrey Fairfax, the' N.S.W. Government will
benefit by £149,000 and the Commonwealth by
£91,000.”
It was this item that inspired the public-
spirited Mr. Hare Brane, of N.S.W., to
found his League of
Patriots for the Bal-
ancing of , Budgets.
The Commonwealth
and State Treasurers
have consented to act
as patrons, and Rev.
Jock Garden is hono-
rary chaplain.
Mr. Bill Thug (of
the Bottle Wielders'
Younger Set) has
been appointed Head
Budget Balancer, and
has already formed
the nucleus of a de-
partment, viz., 1500
typists. Executive
officers will be ap-
pointed as they
emerge from gaol,
pending the repeal of
the Consorting Act,
which has robbed the
Mother State of its
most experienced
Balancers.
“The League,” said
Mr. Brane, “has
made a list which
already includes a
hundred names.
Knowing the patriot-
ism of the chosen
hundred it looks with
confidence for their
co-operation. It is
a sweet and decorous
thing to die for one’s
country.” But even
if that is denied
sturdy patriots like
Mr. Thug may be
relied on to do their
bit. The objects of
the League have re-
ceived the hearty en-
dorsement of the
Unions —especially the Undertakers’ Union.
Mr. Brane estimates that within a year
all the Australian budgets will be balanced,
and that as a result pony-racing, the “dogs”
and the ability to borrow freely will have
been triumphantly re-established.
Percy Pawnticket.
# *
The lecturer was addressing a crowded
audience in the Bowral Town Hall. “This,
gentlemen, is the twentieth century,” he
perorated.
“Hurrah!” shouted the suddenly awakened
local drunk. “Three cheers for Bi-adman!”
“Beards are rare, now; but I saw four bearded
men together in one car to-day.”— “Sunday Sun.”
As the saying goes: Beards in a flivver
flock together.
* *
THINKING S C RIPT Ult ALLY.
“During these times of stress we should try to
think Scripturally.”— Sydney cleric.
We did. And, 10, the man that is called
Otto, lifting up his voice, cried, “Whoa!
Whoa! I say unto ye, for the bottom of the
well hath been reached, and it containeth
neither splash nor splosh, being dry.”
And the multitude, raising their voices
in pained suspense, clamored as follows:
BE KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK.
“Hey, Mum, do you think one more peanut
would hurt him?”
“Whaffor! Is it not written that the tribes
of Israel shall replenish our well, even to
10. aye to 15, per shent?”
But the man called Otto replied:
“Nay, I say unto you, they are like to perish
by reason of the shortages in their own
wells.”
And it came to pass that one called Jock
stood up and was bold, saying: “His voice
is the voice of Otto, but his hand is the
hand of Cohen. I will lead thee to a land
where there be wells in plenty.”
And the multitude, taking with them
their fleshpots, their pewter pots, the wives
of other pots, the ponies which being dead
yet liveth and the crook riders thereof, fol-
lowed him into the wilderness. And here
we are going to leave them, because Jock
led them not unto the promised well hut
into the barren land of No Job, and there-
after, the rage of the multitude being great,
fled the scene in his chariot.
ADVT.
The magistrates within the city gates
would fain hear from Jock’s next-of-kin, if
any, even to the third and fourth genera-
tion. For it came to pass that his chariot
ran out of the holy spirit which is called
juice, so that the pursuing multitude came
up with him and did do him in utterly.
D. McM.
DRESSING FOR THE PARTY.
“There is the most delicately pale apple-green
shirt; and to wear with it a dark metal-green tie
and socks of silver grey, splashed suddenly with
verdigris.” —Melbourne “Herald.”
“What is it?” grunted the breadwinner in
answer to a petulant cry from the bedroom.
“Darling, do come and fasten me up!” came
the summons. With a muttered imprecation
the head of the house tossed a half-smoked
cigar into the grate.
Hilary was straining and twisting to get,
the hang of the sweeping mulberry cloak
splashed suddenly, when the new arrival
bumped into the pretty French dressing-
room and upset an expensive flask of , Dans
la Nuit perfume. “Oh, you great awkward
woman !” cried Hilary tearfully. “Now I’ll
have to wear the claret wrap, and you know
Augusta is T.T.!”
Silence, broken only by pettish requests
for powder and lip-salve, in the midst of
which Hilary’s escort arrived.
“Hilary’s still dressing," was the new?
that greeted tall Junoesque Augusta as th.
door opened. “Come in and have a cigar
while you’re waiting. Yon know what boy?
are with their- frills and furbelows.”
* *
“Patrick O’Brien, accused of language, said he
had been swindled. He was fined 10s.”
Though language may be a relief,
A learning here is seen;
Our magistrates regard with grief
The swearing of the green.
¥ *
HARD TIMES.
Binks was usually good for a bob, so Spong
went to him.
“Sorry,” said Binks; “I was just off to
borrow a dollar myself. Come along—you
can have a bob of it.”
The position was explained to Jinks.
“I happen to want some cash myself.” lie
said. “Bloggs will lend me
half a note. Hang on with
your pal and I’ll let you have
a couple of bob out of it.”
Binks and Spong hung on, and
Bloggs and Jinks presently-
emerged together and entered
another building, After a
while Bloggs came out with
Checkers. Jink, following,
crossed to the waiting pair.
“You’ll have to wait a jiffy,”
lie said. “Bloggs tried to bor-
row a quid from Checkers, and
Checkers, being out of cash,
and not having any money at
the bank, is going to get a pal
to cash a post-dated cheque.
Chap named Goldie.”
“Goldie’s got heaps of dough
—it’ll be all right,” said Binks.
cheerfully. Hope had been
fading.
“Sorry, old man,” said Goldie. “At the
moment I couldn’t produce two bob, let
alone two quid. All 1 have on me is seven-
pence. Wait a bit, though. I’ll send the
office boy over to the bank, and cash a
cheque for a fiver.”
A hush fell on the waiting assembly as
the office boy blew in five minutes later. He
deposited the cheque on his employer’s desk
with an expression not far removed from a
sneer, then fished in his trousers-pocket and
produced a strip of paper. “Nothin’ doin'
erbout the fiver,” he announced. “It says
’ere that you’re, overdrawn fifty-two three and
fourpence.”
11. M.
* *
“My policy is to bring idle land, idle capital and
idle men together.”. — A. G. Huie, Parliamentary and
Taxation Reform candidate for Ashfleld.
The secretary, Confirmed Idlers’ Associa-
tion, writes:—
We arc all moving to Ashfleld immediately so
that we may vote for Mr. Huie. As we have long
suspected, he is one of us at heart, and as a mark
of our esteem we hasten to confer upon him life
membership in our association. The idle land and
the idle men have, we venture to remind him,
already been brought together. Take those two
ANOTHER PROFOUND MYSTERY.
VISITOR TO DETECTIVE OFFICE: “That’s a
photograph of my missing husband. I
want you to find him."
DETECTIVE: “Why, Madam, why?”
conveniently idle areas Hyde Park and the Domain.
He will find them both occupied any hour of the day
or night, all the year round, by’ our members. The
only real problem that confronts us is how to lay
our hands upon the idle capital. We hereby record
our solemn promise that if the much needed distri-
bution of idle ' capital among idle men on the
already more than adequate areas of idle land is ever
arranged for by Mr. Huie, we, the confirmed idlers
of this State, will hire toilers to erect a statue to
Jus memory.
Li. R.
* ¥
THE PHENOMENON.
I know a girl who never smokes,
Or uses words like “damn”
Or paints or spots, or chases blokes —
She’s out there in her pram.
¥ ¥
“Beasley may resign portfolio.”— “S. M. Herald.”
Beasley tome, Beasley go, as it were.
IF.
If only my girl had a figure slim
And hair not so red in tone,
If only my girl were lithe of limb
And didn't weigh sixteen stone,
If only my girl had charm and grace
And feet rather less immense,
If only she had a different face
And also a bit of sense,
If only my girl could cut a dash
And wasn't a dull and shy girl,
If only she had a lot of cash —
Why, I don’t suppose she'd be my girl!
DORIC.


'lk;
r*
am
m
,
"/nr
'it ifi
:
m
m
v\
II
s
m
ssy^
m
m
IT"
7A
I
! 1
$
K£
V
HARDT'S
SPA UIC LIJVG


SAr OPD AY
H
7 GJhc„k ujy „
j'
Just
“any battery”
may be good enough
to-day . ♦ ♦ but
how will it serve you
12 months hence ?
WHEN you buy a new
battery, you have to de-
cide whether first cost
or cost in the long run is what
matters to you.
You cannot tell a good battery
from outside appearance ; the
vital points are unseen.
Your only sure guide is the
name and reputation of the
manufacturer.
Exide has been making batteries
for over 40 years; the first
car equipped with an electric
Starter used Exide, and to-day
it is the largest selling battery
in the World.
If economy is important to you,
remember that under the same
conditions of service an Exide
will outlast any other battery
you could buy. Buy from your
local Service Station. There is
a type and size to suit your car.
longer lift Battery
FOR CARS. RADIO & HOME LIGHTING
State Distributors :
NEW SOUTH WALES : Exide Battery Service
(Gibson, Batt.e & Co. Ltd.), Hunt and Com-
monwealth Streets, Sydney.
VICTORIA : A. P. Sutherland, Queen’s Bridge,
2 Maffra Street, South Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND : Exide Battery Service
(Q.) Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane ; Stanley
Street, South Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : Unbehaun & John-
stone Ltd., 97 Currie Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA : M. J. Bateman Ltd.,
Magneto House, Milligan Street, Perth.
TASMANIA : Medhurst & Sons, Collins Street,
Hobart.
C. 2.
fdg
fd
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
, S.E.B. Melbourne.
The patriot
|D[RECTMEDiy^T^WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE*
2 HUNTER STREET.
50
Subjects Weekly.
ALSO COLORED PICTURES
WORTH FRAMING.
ON SALE AT
ALL
NEWSAGENTS
EACH WEEK.
“The Australasian”
The Paper all Australians appreci-
ate, and their friends overseas, too!
HI
k
Kirby, Beard & Co., Ltd.,
Birmingham, London,
Redditch and Paris.
CD
Whatever the growth, there’s
no beard that can resist a
KIRBY BEARD RAZOR
BLADE. Made of a special
•steel, with extra
keen edges that
last and give a
wonderfully clean,
unequalled shave.
From Stores, Chemists
and Hairdressers.
Australian Agent:
H. E. UTTLEY, Margaret House,
282 George Street, Sydney.
Be sure you ask for
gfd
g
kaffty RAZOR BLADES
(/here are
more and mom
Swan'
PENS
in use
event year
—why?
ejWA/Vil
Jade with
Boiled Gold
Bands
SO/*
S.F.2SOC
Black or
Mottled
(with clip)
27/e
FOR‘ SWAN *
PENS AND
ALL PENS
fdg
BECAU SE —during
nearly a century of
progressive manu-
facturing methods
in the production
of gold nibs and
fountain pens, public
confidence in the
name “SWAN” has
remained unshaken.
COLOURED “SWANS” from 22/6
(OTHER SELF-FILLING ‘SWANS' from 17/6
Black or Mottled!.
“ Fyne-Poynt ” Pencils from 7/6
Self-Filling “Blackbird” Pens from 9/-
STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
Illustrated Catalogue post free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
Swan House, London, W.I.
Factories : London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Rep ir Servi e DepSt:
PHIdSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181. Clarence Street, Sydney.
V
Save Money
on Turn v
i a
7
n
r
OU can easily avoid
costly tyre trouble
by keeping your tyres
properly inflated. But
you must use an accu-
rate, durable gauge. The
Schrader Gauge is such
a gauge.
Buy a Schrader Gauge
from any tyre or acces-
sory supplier. Keep it
always in your car. Use it
regularly at least once a
week and before long
trips. It will save its small
cost in increased tyre
service many times over.
Schrader Gauges are
sturdy, dependable, easy
to use, easy to read.
Be Sure It’s a
SCHRADER
Ma
1
m
m
Look For
The Name
Schrader
Makers of Pneumatic
Valves Since 1844
Tyre Valves
Tyre Gauges
1
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
womans paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
214 George Street, Sydney.


THE GOSSARD LINE of BEAUTY
■
■
Shown above is front-lacing corset, Model 1002. Combined
of French batiste and the wonder fabric-elastic, Charmosette,
which is found only in Gossard garments, it gently grooms
the figure into lines of loveliness.
There Is No Substitute
for Loveliness of Figure
There simply isn't a substitute for a lovely figure—
well-groomed and well-poised. The smartest of
gowns, the most beautiful of faces cannot atone for a
figure carelessly groomed. Knowing this, Gossard
has produced foundation garments that groom every
type of figure—bring the utmost in loveliness. The
designs are many —Solitaires, step-ins, front-lacing
corsets, girdles, brassieres. Whatever your figure
faults happen to be, among the new Gossard
foundations are garments that will fit you as though
they were individually designed for your needs.
THE CANADIAN H. W. GOSSARD CO., Limited
114-120 Castlereagh Street .. Sydney, N. S. W.
MADE
WITHIN
THE
EMPIRE
K-AUST-I2D
Poverty
Point
“Jacky Roo” (Loud.) : Comic-artist
Jimmy Bancks has made liis bow to the
variety stage. It was short-lived. He was
billed for a week at the Palladium, doing
lightning sketches, but first-nighters didn’t
take kindly to his humorous patter. Bancks
was off the bill next day.
“Feng”: The Coleman brothers arc now
engaged in the biggest scenic painting of
their long career. They are providing it
background of rolling hills and bush to a
miniature golf course in the basement of
Wentworth House, Collins-street, Melbourne.
No less than 12,000 feet of land and sky have
to be covered, and they are considering a tip
given them by Leason, who has used it. This
is to employ an ordinary fruit spray, it
being possible by regulating the size of the
nozzle not only to vary the depth of a tone
but even to squirt trees or animals into the
picture.
“Hops and Scotch”: Gus Bluett, gagging
during Kellaway’s absence from the cast of
“Follow Through” at Her Majesty’s, Sydney,
sprang the old one on understudy Jack
Dunne, “Have you heard the story of the
three eggs?” and gave the answer, “Two
bad.” The audience, aghast that its favorite
should heave such an ancient one at it,
preserved a stony silence. Bluett regarded
the sea of unsmiling faces with pretended
petulance. “You’re a lot of prawns,” he
tom them. . “It’s too subtle for you.” The
ensuing laugh was tremendous.
“Say Bo”: “Green Pastures,” the play
recently reviewed in The Bulletin, in
which Heaven is painted in black pigment,
has been banned in England on the usual
ground that no actor may don grease-paint
and masquerade as the Creator. It is an
anomalous restriction since His Son is under
no such disqualification. The prohibition
even extends to the ancient miracle plays, in
which the Godhead makes an appearance.
They are only permitted if the Deity is
transformed into a Voice with no physical
attributes.
“Jermyn”: Vance Palmer writes from
London (B. 17/9/’3O) : “I have aways had
a prejudice against the screen, but I am
beginning to see_ some of its possibilities.”
AH this means is that he is unconsciously
assimilating the cultural outlook of London
-—a common phenomenon in the case of travel-
ling Australians. Australia has been seeing
all the Hollywood films that London sees
for years past, and the best of them have far
more “vigor” and “uprush of life” than any
Continental films. The reason is plain: as
soon as a Continental director or actor
appears who is capable of putting “life,”
“vigor” or any other valuable asset into a
picture, Hollywood buys him. It will take
our intelligentsia about five years to get
away from the idea that no one but morons
can self-respectingly admit to an interest in
the pictures—perhaps longer if Creswell
O’Reilly is allowed to go on emasculating
English films which, in spite of highbrow
prattle about Russian films, are the only
rivals of the Hollywood productions.
“Cine Ma”: A cloud no bigger than 21-
inches. by 1-J inch appeared on London’s
theatrical horizon recently. That was the
size of the Baird television screen at which
those who had installed it stared, and to
which they listened, while the 8.8. C. broad-
cast Pirandello’s “Man with the Flower in
His Mouth.” Only the faces of the actors
and not more than one of those at a time
found room on the screen, but by dint of
facial expression and the occasional intru-
sion of a hand the spirit of the playwright's
mystical drama was conveyed with fair
significance. The Coliseum is so satisfied
with the result that televised items are to
form a regular part of its vaudeville pro-
gramme. In this case the broadcast is
enlarged to cover a large sheet with con-
siderable loss of definition. The new baby
of the arts has the defects of infancy, but
no more so than the early talkies had.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: The demand for sing-
ing voices in the American talkies has caught
up Amy Castles. Amy had Father Robinson
as her sponsor and could not have had a better
one. He built one of Melbourne’s most mag-
nificent churches out of his own collecting
efforts. Amy’s rise brought the whole family
into the show business. Dolly was given a
show as lead with a Williamson Gilbert and
Sullivan co., and was a very good Patience.
It is pretty certain that the rotund George,
the brother of the family, will find his way
to America, too. He has for years been
manager of the Castles Concert Co., which'
made periodical tours of Australasia, but
recently he has been picture-managing.
“Cauboy”: O’Casey’s “The Plough and the
Stars,” which Grogan McMahon recently
produced for the first time in Australia at
the Bijou, Melbourne, aroused intense feel-
ing when it was played in Dublin in 1920.
The orator in the second act uses exactly
the same words as Sheehy Skeffington, who
was shot by a British captain in 1916. Mrs.
Skeffington publicly protested at the opening-
performance against even the ghost of her
husband’s words appearing. The prostitute in
the same act also so offended Irish suscepti-
bilities that a crowd finally rushed over the
orchestra and flung her bodily across the
footlights. The appearance of the Irish
republican flag led to another outbust.
O’Casev had also had his own troubles, but
they were domestic. The English woman flee-
ing from the street fighting in the last act
is felt to be a glaringly inartistic intrusion.
The playwright put her in to provide a part
for Mrs. O’Casey.
“L.H’.P.”: Johnny P. O’Neil, just gone
out in Sydney, came to Australia with
Charini’s circus. He first appeared on the
Sydney stage at the old Opera House, King-
street, in 1883, in Emilie Melville’s pro-
duction of Suppe’s opera “Boccaccio.” The
comedian Casselli, cast for Lotteringhi the
cooper, took ill, and his place was filled
by Johnny, who brought to the Italian role
a rich Irish brogue. Johnny through all his
Australian career was chiefly identified with
Hibernian parts; he played with skill
all the Boucicaultian characters, Trooper
O’Hara (“Robbery Under Arms”), Biddy
Roonan (“The Shadows of a Great City”)
and the like. From time to time he bobbed
up as an Irish dame in panto.
The Palette
“F.S.”: There is sardonic humor in the
proposal to hold a sale of pictures in the
Town Hall, Melbourne, to assist Mayor Lux-
ton’s hospital appeal. With a few excep-
tions, the artists who have been asked to
give works are themselves on the breadline.
One of the best of them recently cleared
£70 as the result of a year’s unremitting
exercise of his exceptional talent. Another
failed to pay gallery rent. Art is a luxury
to all —including the artist.
“Lao-dah”: Still somebody in Melbourne
has money to spend on art. IJarold Herbert’s
recent show netted £800, and Buckmaster’s
£500.
Rupert Hutter, a Swiss artist, has been
about Victoria, and the results have been
hanging at the Margaret MacLean galleries.
Ilutter’s chief merit is that he does make
gums look like gums instead of Swiss pines,
but he is not so successful with the dairy-
ing industry. He has found a cow up above
the snow line which is 20 feet long, has
forelegs like a kangaroo’s, and a stern like
H.M.A.S. Australia. The animal ought to
be acquired for the Zoo.
The local critical tendency to sniff at the
work of Leila McNamara, of Adelaide
(Sedon Galleries, Melbourne), is not quite
fair to the lady from the city of culture.
She is transparently honest, which is more
than can be said for some of the local artists
whom Melbourne buys with such avidity.
She bites off more than she can chew, which
makes her work uneven in quality; but it
is fresh and free from bad habits.
Looking at the Twenty Melbourne Paint-
ers’ show at the Athenaeum is like listening
to the Philharmonic Society if all the mem-
bers sang different songs in different keys
simultaneously. Modernists Frater and
Shore share the west wall with Mrs.
Tweddle, who believes in revolution by con-
stitutional means. Her “Impression of Anzac
March” has considerable vitality. Shore’s
pictorial version of “Petrouschka,” a ballet
by Stravinsky, conveys that that composer
scored exclusively for the kerosene-tin.
Frater’s flower studies are jam-tin bombs
exploding. Nevertheless, the rude remarks
of this pair are more entitled to respect than
the polite nothings of some of the others.
They go bald-headed for the broad facts,
whereas their colleagues are largely content
to fuss about with non-essentials. George
Bell’s nude with the too-insistent hip locks
like a meringue. As a human being it lacks
substance. Percy Leason’s invitation self-
portrait for the Nat. Gallery of N. S. Wales
has delicate atmosphere. It sits well back
in the frame and makes some neighboring
portraits look insipid. The same may be
said of the masterly self-portrait of August
Cornehls in the green sweater, and of P.
Hurry’s “Sheila in Blue” and her “Land-
scape, Balnarring” (No. 80). In the
general uproar Clarice Beckett’s still little
voice commands attention simply because it
is so serene and quiet. It is like a melody
by Mozart introducing into a jazz overture.
“Prince’s Bridge, Evening,” breathes the
essence of the scene, which is stillness.
“White Rod, Anglesea,” has no more than
half a dozen notes, but they are satisfying.
The Lambert Memorial Exhibition was
opened at Horderns’, Sydney, the other day,
and Australian Galleries swooped down on
it with a determination they hadn’t shown
for many a day. Purchases, including those
by the Lambert Memorial Fund, which will
go to the N.S.W. Gallery, totalled just on
3000 guineas. The Ma State trustees
weighed in the bulk of it —2005 guineas for
11 pictures, ranging from 15 guineas to 700.
The fund collected 300 guineas’ worth, the
War Museum spent 230 guineas, and the
balance was put in by Adelaide (150), Gee-
long (95) and Melbourne (40). The show
merited the interest it attracted. It em-
braced pretty well the whole range of the
artist’s work —his very early pieces, his war
groups and some things that were unfinished
when he died. It reveals more than any-
thing else that Lambert was a master
draughtsman; among the surest hands that
ever lifted pencil or brush in Australia. That
he was a master showman, and allowed his
showmanship to get into his work, is another
revelation that isn’t quite so happy.
The Inky Way
“Uramao”: Charles Wheeler, with whom
Low sat in Maoriland’s Tress Gallery turn-
ing out thumbnail sketches to illustrate
Charlie’s humorous page for the defunct Can-
terbury “Times,” has just had an unusual
journalistic experience. In the general felici-
tations on his 25 years’ association with
the gallery, the Speaker, the acting Prime
Minister and the Opposition Leader all paid
tribute to his work.
“Lao-dah”: The congregation of the swag-
ger St. John’s, Toorak, felt the thrill of so
many philatelists the other Sunday when its
pulpiteer preached from a copy of the rare
and famous “Breeches” Bible. This edition
of Holy Writ was printed 51 years before the
Authorised Version, and owes its sanctity to
a typographical error, the word “apron” in
Genesis iii, 7, being translated “breeches”
by the realistic Geneva editors. W. J. White,
of William-street, Melbourne, owns the curi-
osity.
“Chizzy”: Maoriland’s Windy City has
another daily. The M's.P. of the Shivery
Islands cannot wait until the bi-weekly
“Hansard” appears to read their speeches in
its pages, so now it comes out in daily
numbers. These are bound at the end of
the week, with an index. It is believed that
this will save £250 on the previous
“Hansard” bill, which was amazingly
large. It was stated last year that 6900
copies of each number were printed, while
the number of subscribers was but 135.


Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
on Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa-
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all oCher usual Banking business.
uRANTS DRAFTS
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
df
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
gfd
CONCENTRATE ON
QUEENSLAND.
You can increase the sale of
YOUR goods by building up a mar-
ket in the most responsive, least “de-
pressed” State in the Commonwealth
— QUEENSLAND .
* * * * *
Investigate the possibilities of the
Queensland market NOW by getting
in touch with a representative of
Queensland’s Oldest, Biggest, and
most Influential Newspaper.
Qfhe (ffourier.
Published by :
THE BRISB 4NE NEWSPAPER
CO., LTD.,
Queen-street, Brislane. ’Phone 82991.
Sydney Representative: Robert D,
Fisher, 74 Pitt-street. ’Phone 85007,
Melbourne Representative: L. S.
Marks, The Argus Bldg., Elizabeth
and Latrobe streets. ’Phone F 3906
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street. Melbourne.
HAWAI
irihins
SUMMER
Hawaii. .Waikiki Beach, .picturesque
people.. festivals .. sunshine and palms
...Queen Island of the South Seas,
Hawaii draws visitors from every land.
ooeicqK
LJ
r
J
m-
NIAGARA
AORANGI
A
mm
m •
Canadian Australasian
EXCURSIONS
Hawaii, Via Zealand and Suva.
Book with Union Steam Ship Company,
Sydney—Melbourne.
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co., Brisbane and Perth.
Sailing Nov. 13, Dec. 11, Jan. 8, Feb. 5.
BURNS PHILP TOURS
A L.
Gi-'r
&9
%
*3
t-zsr
re
G 3
ii‘
THE GARDEN OF THE EAST
Smooth Water Voyage
which is a Holiday in Itself.
Regular monthly sailings by the
popular vessels S.S. “MARELLA,
7500 tons; M.V. “MALABAR,
5000 tons.
Return Fare from Sydney, £Bl
BURNS, PHILP k CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide.
Travelin Picture, Verse and Story.
Read the "B.P. Magazine,” 1/- a copy.
All Newsagents ■ and Booksellers.
BURNS. PHILP &C9.LTP
7 BRIDGE ST. SYDNEY.AUSTRALIA
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 18 n
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
gfd
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150.000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90.806,297.
AG< *Genial Manager; ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
-oo Hrmehes and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Terrftorv of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world
Ke lenmtances made to, and drafts drawn on. Foreign place, DIKLCT toretgn Dills xNegotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Achievement!
DURING the 12 months ended June 30, 1930, the “Daily Mail carried
725 columns more advertising space than for the year ended June 30,
1929. This is an unparalleled achievement for Queensland daily newspapers.
The "other Brisbane morning daily showed a decrease of over 900 co.umns
during the same period. To show a substantia increase in advertising
columns under the adverse conditions which preva led throughout
Australia during that period, indicates that the confidence oi Austialian
advertisers in
The Daily Mail
Is based on the sound foundation of the
medium During the Fame period the Sunday Mail ca ri d r. 0
SmJTs of advertising space, apart altogether from the advertising
carried by the “Daily Mail.’’
Rate Cards and Specimen Copies from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL. LTD., 288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane.
M.B.W. Branch: 72 Pitt St., Sydney. London: R. B. Brett & Son, New Bridge St., E.C.4.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
fCeramic . , 18,500 tons, Oct. 18
*Ascanius . . 11,000 ~ Nov. 25
sThemistocles 11,500 „ Dec. 3
*Ulysses . . 15,000 ~ Jan. 19, ’3l
*First class oniv.
tCabin class. tFirst and third class.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgcty 8 Co., Ltd. 1 joint
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd. j Agents
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
One Class Only,
TO PLYMOUTH AND LONDON,
VIA SUEZ.
Calling at Colombo, Port Said and Malta.
Single, two- four- and six-berth Porthole Cabins.
SPEED, EXCELLENT CUISINE AND ALL MODERN
COMFORTS—CANVAS SWIMMING BATH.
Fares to London from £3B.
To Colombo from £22.
Special Excursion Return Tickets to
Colombo issued frcm Sept, to Feb., £32-
Freight Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Joint Passenger Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Tel. 1 86701. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.,
Tel.: 87512. 247 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Lim'
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamslilm
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA- —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Po'llns Street. Mnlb'nurna: Srjoaa -UraoC, Svtlnatf.
?.hOi
i<Sx
•n. ,oz<
Care f?f2H,ksh
SlUifi fim
< £lk
Every-day use of
CUTICUKA
has become the approved recipe for
natural skin and complexion beauty.
There is nothing better than daily use of
the Soap, assisted by the Ointment to
keep the skin fresh and clear, the hands
soft and smooth and the hair healthy.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
NZ TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
X / GUN clubs association
N.z! COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISLAND SHEER DOG
TRIAD ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEL CLUB
N.Z. GOLF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. I‘OLO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
©V to any of Ui( World ’« Leading
Advertising Agcn leu.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know .


u rAT I irM” 128 Ea«t Terrace
EOTHEN 332 s .
g
ADELAIDE
UNEXCELLED CUISINE
GARAGE
delusive Tariff, £4-4-0
Central 528
PAYING GUESTS Mr*, parker j
smgmgi
AUCKLAND, N.Z. (Acc. 160)
“Only UNLICENSED Hotel-de-Luxe”
C.T., P.S., and Auto. Ass’ns’ House.
Days, 15/- (two or more, 14/-) ; Weekly, 84/-
“Specjal” rooms (h. and c. water), 16/- or 98/-
For Sale.
gUBDIVISIONAI I LAND FOR SALE. Mixed farm-
ing, dairying any part 3600 acres, four paddocks,
carrying sheep. Rainfall certain, main road, tele-
phone, school, 10/- to 15/- acre, small deposit, easy
terms.
E. THEYER, Cranbrook, W.A.
■ "
se* ve
Sec
** 'fi
®io cV '°,.J di“ w ' st ,« «W» •
to an <ls hCtt J
10 (fee taSteS cups ° l rnUl
coft a {tom cU S tVve C ° J.
\S
w « B^*j£Ss
t\e Sb
• _ct»f ts '
C t°°& V
t\i*
TO SEE THE LATEST
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
♦ China
Nursery Ware
k/ Lucie Attweli
& Hilda Cowham
Domestic Ware
Jelly Moulds
IM CASE OP ANY DIFFICULTY IN OBTAINING
WRITE TO
fdg
HEATH C CO. LTD.
32. CLARENCE ST.
SYDNEY
w HAIR
C> NEtD
here!
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
Sfralhms CMEXICAN')
UkUtud Stavn
•-REMOVES THE GREY"*
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
Ij unobtainable locally, posted
direct (4/6), 6d. being postage.
fp
A Booming Christmas is coming at
Broken Hill. All alterations of
wages are postponed. Traders are
getting ready for the rush of busi>
ness. Get your Christmas goods
into the Barrier Public’s eye through
“The Barrier Miner,” the people’s
daily newspaper for the past 42
years.
Lubrication Doesn't Worry This
Man—But What About Yonr
Modern Motor Car ?
ninimnmn
This bullock cart requires little or no attention
to keep it running—but your modern motor car
must be lubricated regularly, every 500 miles, to
keep it running smoothly.
Lubrication is perhaps the most vital feature in
the modem automobile. 80% of repair bills are
due to lack of proper lubrication. Grit, sand and
dirt are the greatest enemies of bearings. Keep
these bearings clean and you will reduce your
repair bills, increase the value of your car and
be free of lubrication troubles.
The ALEMITE System forces into the bearing
under 3000 lbs. pressure, pure, ALEMITE solidi-
fied oil, forcing out at the same time, worn-out
grease, grit, sand and dirt, leaving the bearing
perfectly clean and thoroughly lubricated.
Equip your motor car now and avoid break
downs.
Full particulars from:
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH
Resident Manager
250 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Or from the following representatives:
Bennett & Wood. Ltd 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
Motor Supplies, Ltd. Brisbane
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd 894 Hay Street, Perth
E. A. Machin & Co., Ltd. 535 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
Cornell Limited, 122 Pine St.. Box G. P. 0.496, E. Adelaide
ALEMITE CORPORATION
Chicago* U. S. A*
Cable Address: ALMIT-Chicago
ALEMITE
DUN I rLlKlrjllU\ IU
CLUB REIL
\r V_}H^
•r*
CR.AIG &> AITKEN
654 GEORGE
DISTRIBUTORS FOR CLO& REIL CIGAR. FACTORY.
LIFE INSURANCE
Is the most effective instrument ever
devised by human intelligence for the
promotion of industry, saving, character
and happiness.
Insure Your Life with
A.M.P. SOCIETY
ASSETS £78,500,000
A MUTUAL institution where th& whole of the available surplus
is divided ANNUALLY amongst the participating members.
ENQUIRIES INVITED.
Head Office:
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
F. T. BRIDGES,
General Manager.
Offices in the leading Country toivns, and field representatives in all Districts.
SHADOW SHOWS.
Barbara Stanwyck plays Kay Arnold in
“Ladies of Leisure,” which opened in Syd-1
ney at the State. Kay describes herself as
a “filler-in.” She and her flat-mate Dot
(Marie Prevost) attend binges, when re-
qired, in quest of profitable amusement.
While leaving a drunken orgy at 4 a.m.
Jerry Strange, artist and millionaire’s son,
meets Kay, who is on her way home from
another orgy, slightly tight and partially
r.ude, and hires her as a model for his pic-
ture “Hope.”
The story proper begins when she falls
in love with him and changes miraculously
from a hard-boiled, cigarette-craving, wise-
cracking, pocket-picking prostitute to a thor-
oughly nice girl. Jerry, who has missed his
parkit-book after their first drive together,
| finds to his dismay that he also is in love.
The significance of his brutal manners would
j be apparent to any girl, much less the sophis-
I ticated Kay. But for the purposes of the
drama she has to be an innocent whose wail-!
ing protests against his habit of treating
her like a blark of foinicher brings about j
j the inevitable crisis. There is psychological |
insight behind cue scene in which he finds !
release from his pent-up lust by showering
kisses on her, while he storms at her as a
blackmailer, and worse. There the play |
should have ended. Unfortunately for art
and the audience the lady’s troubles begin j
all over again here, and they culminate in j
an attempt at suicide which augurs ill foy
the future happiness of the young people.
It blasts the illusion of normality that she
had built up during the studio scenes. Still,
it is a great show on the whole. Miss Stan-
wyck gives an exquisitely feminine represen-
tation of a passionate girl—any girl—try-
ing to make an unresponsive young man give
her a sound kissing, and Ralph Graves is
suitably blusterous as Jerry.
* * *
In “For the Defence” (unwound for the
first time in Australia at Sydney Capitol)
William Powell plays William Foster, a
shady criminal-defender. Evidently ethical
standards are higher at the New York Bar
than in some Australian cities. All Foster
does is to get his clients off by tricky
methods which, in Sydney, say, would earn
him no more than a mild rebuke from the
Bench. He is the leader of his branch of
the profession. As Irene Manners (Kay
Francis) says, he is “sitting on top of the
world” —meaning the under-world. But his
fellow-barristers despise him, and the Dis-
trict Attorney warns him publicly that his
justice-defeating proclivities will eventually
land him in gaol. He makes the only slip
of a technically blameless career after a
drinking bout to which he has been driven
by the indiscreet conduct of Irene. Irene
goes for a drive in his rival’s car, and the
rival kills a pedestrian, and is indicted for
manslaughter. William agrees to defend the
rival, and, inspired by noble but boneheaded
impulses, engages in a singularly crude jury-
squaring job. The police, whom he has so
often defamed and defeated, find out, and
he is sent to Sing Sing, comforted by the
knowledge that Irene will be at the prison
gates to meet him when he emerges. Collier
is his smooth, sentimental and resonant self
all over again (he plays these characters
according to an unvarying formula), and
-Cay Francis is naughtily beautiful, as usual.
Otherwise the interest of this Paramount
picture, which is considerable, lies in its
dramatic moments, and in the impression
which it conveys (for the first time in a
talkie, so far as this critic is aware) that
America has at last begun to cope with its
crime wave at the right end.
* * *
Fox Movietone’s “Born Reckless,” which
began its Sydney run at the Regent, con-
tains most of the ingredients that have made
successes of previous films, including Edmund
Lowe as a Dago gangster and Catherine Dale
Owen. The low-born Louis Beretti, after
doing horrible things to Germany in the
World War, meets and falls for Joan, the
lovely and oppressively refined sister of a
fellow-doughboy. Louis is handicapped by
his origin and criminal associations. How-
ever, the seemingly hard-boiled gent, is a
regular guy under his skin. He and his
tough friends are the victims of their en-
vironment, and their hearts are soft to the
point of mushiness if the police only knew
it. Such is the theme of a show in which
there are more murders than usual, and
several entirely new examples of under- j
world slanguage. Utter bunkum, of course, :
but an exciting entertainment of its class. !
# ¥ *
“A Notorious Affair” at the Haymarket
is also for low-brows only. It is as incon-
sequential as the other and it is handicapped
by a director who knows nothing of the
society he sets out to depict. He begins with
a hunting scene in England. The trees are
in full leaf, and Kay Francis, as a hard-
riding Countess in a musical-comedy topper,
commits the sporting crime of “larking” over
one of her host’s garden hedges at the end
of a stiff run. Kenneth Thomson’s Harley-
street specialist has a strong Yankee accent,
and there are many other discrepancies and
absurdities. In any case the story is fan-
tastically unreal.
* * *
Worse in all respects than either of the
pictures mentioned above is the Haymarket’s
British feature, “Harmony Heaven.” The
young men are frightful—what the Ameri-
cans call “pansies” one and all—and the
puerility of the dialogue and music is
astonishing.
# # *
Public interest was aroused by the arrival
of “The Unholy Three” at Sydney Roxy
Theatre, since in this film Lon Chaney
speaks for the first and last time. It was
seen here long ago as a silent —one of those
weird productions, depending for most of
their effects on characterisation aided by
make-up. in which Chaney specialised.
The dead actor’s voice sounded singularly
hollow and toneless to the writer, but then
Ivan Linow, who plays the giant, was equally
hard to listen to; and he is recognised by
Hollywood as the possessor of a fine talkie
voice. So the Roxy projectionist may have
been at fault on the night in question, or
the sound recording of the film may be bad.
Otherwise the picture is a good one of it
I old-fashioned type.


531 of Australia’s tennis players
Spalding equipment... reports indicate
use
Tiers of tense, eager spectators. Attention rivetted
on the darting, white-clad figures —the flashing
rackets —the flying ball. Service, volleys, placements
—the game is one of brilliant technique —bewildering
speed —inspiring skill. A battle of champions ....
Such play demands the best equipment. Tennis stars
-world wide-choose Spalding for championship play.
Hardwearing, accurate, balanced, Spalding “Lat-
exeam” balls are made to give economy with perfect
playing qualities. Every Spalding tennis racket is
scientifically conStru<fled to an approved model de-
signed by masters of the game.
That is why Statistics prove that J 3% of all Australia’s
tenuis players endorse the champions’ choice. They
use Spalding too, for better play.
■l# ,
The recovery from a deep lob is very difficult, and calls for perfect
balance and concentration. The ideal return is to play the ball deep
instead of going for an impossible smash, and this shot requires ex-
treme delicacy and control. It is under such conditions that the ease
of handling of a “Top-Flite” racket, and the uniform contro lability
of a “Latexeam” ball give every assistance to the player. That is why
champions use them.
df
Plug-filled balls—
made obsolete by Spalding
Method of inflating “plugged”
core through hole pierced in
plug. Plug disturbs balance of
balk and there is constant risk of air
leakage through plug failing to seal
properly. Spalding makes this
method obsolete.
Spalding “Latexeam” core is inflated
as it is made. There is no subsequent
piercing—no plug to cause irregular-
ities in bound. Air seepage is pre-
vented by special g latinous lining.
See that your ball is a Spalding.
New improved 1931
“Latexeam” enduring strength
lasting accuracy,
The Spalding "Latexeam” ball
has always been noted for its
wonderfully durable cover. For
the new 1931 cover an especi-
ally high quality of Melton
cloth has been secured. Woven
from the finest Australian
Merino wool —this cloth with-
stands an abrasive test more
severe than that passed by any
other make.'
Moulded from a special rub-
ber compound, "Latexeam”
cores are accurate to a variation
of less than one thousandth
of an inch in thickness and
diameter.
They are lined with a patent-
ed air-tight material. They are
automatically inflated to ex-
actly the right pressure.
Spalding "Latexeam” gives
you better tennis. Its *new
cover —its strong "Latex”
cement seams give great
strength—long life. Its plug-
mm
■amom
Spalding “Latexeam” balls boxed in red
are for hard courts —in blue for grass play.
They differ in the rebound.... that for
grass courts being the higher. In both
cases rebound conforms to L.T.A.A.
regulations. Spalding “Latexeam” balls,
1/9 each.
less core means perfect balance.
Automatic inflation enables
“Latexeam” to be made with
just the right amount of "give”
—you can control it in play.
Its air-tight lining ensures last-
ing liveliness —lasting accuracy.
Spalding tennis equipment —
at all sports stores. A. G. Spald-
ing & Bros. (N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd.,
325 Kent St., Sydney, N.S.W.
gfd
Here’s the Spalding “Top-Flite’
racket. Perfectly balanced, with that
hint of “whip” which gives it lightning
speed. “Top-Flite” is the fastest
racket ever made.
Select the frame that suits your game
Ha ve it strung as you wish — this Spalding way
A good workman never blames
his tools. He sees that they are
perfect. It is the same with
tennis players. The best owe
much to their rackets —to their
selection. Spalding now offers
the ordinary player a hand in
designing a personal racket.
Selected frames "Top-
Flite,” "Gold Medal 0.5.,”
"Peerless,” and "Kro-Bat”
models, can now be obtained
unstrung. Choose a frame that
suits in weight, balance and
feel. Have it strung with the
gut and tension you desire.
You then have a racket especi-
ally made. To fit your game
exactly. Buy a "Top-Flite”
frame. Spalding offers 3 grades
of gut "Top-Flite,” "En-
dura,” or "Humidex” quality.
Fiave your oivn racket.
Also the "Gold Medal 0.5.”
—frame only—47/ 6 —or the
complete racket in 3 grades of
stringing —62/6, 70/-, or 80/-.
The Improved Model "Vant-
age” a popular and well
balanced racket 42/-; the
"Greenwood,” re-designed and
improved—l9/9. Both strung
ready for play.
gfdfd
Made in Australia ,


INVINCIBLE
MARINE MOTORS are stocked
in 12 popular sizes: 2J to 60 h.p.
“The World’s Best Since 1906.”
All Spare Parts always available.
Write for 30-page illustrated
Catalogue.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS
LIMITED,
Sydney Showrooms:
53 NORTH GEORGE STREET
(Near Harbor Bridge).
When selecting a Sporting Rifle inspect
Winchester Model 56
Magazine Rifle
Using 22 cal. Long-rifle
Cartridges only.
Price, £5
post free.
. m
Write for Leaflet B.
Spare Magazine,
5 capacity, 5/6 extra.
10 capacity, 6/6 extra.
The Gun House,
COWLES <SL DUNN
453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
REPAIRS.
“OUR HANDS MAKE GOOD ARMS.”
Firearms sent C.O.D.
gfd
The Famous Hollis 12-gauge Guns
specially made for me to suit Australian
Conditions.
Hollis “Foxey” Hammer Model, £l3
Hollis Special Hammerless
Model £2l
Specifications for both thins: 30- or 32-inch
Barrels, both full choke, chambered for 3in.
cartridges, high file cut rib, ■ treble wedge
fast crossbolt (hammer model side clips),
selected English walnut stock, weight 7-flb. to
81b. each. POST FREE.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
’Phone, MA3540.
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
143 b ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
(near Market Street).
“Fishing Tackle to Tackle Fishing.”
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Phar Lap will be a leading attraction at
the A.J.C. spring meeting, commencing at
liandwick on Saturday. He has filled out a
lot since his Derby triumphs and his unlucky
Cup third last year, and is now a very fine-
looking specimen of the thoroughbred. Like
Windbag and Manfred, he can win at any
distance; and he resembles Windbag also
in being as honest as the sun. Whether he
is superior to either of those splendid horses
can only be argued; this paper inclines to
the opinion that Manfred, on the day when
he gave Amounis and Vaals half a furlong’s
start in the A.J.C. Derby and had them hope-
lessly beaten at nine furlongs, was the great-
est three-year-old of its half-century. All
the same, Phar Lap is exceptionally good,
and he is very unlikely to be beaten in the
w.-f.-a. races at Randwick—he is in three.
The Derby field will be larger than usual,
and it should be a remarkably interesting
race. Veilmond is likely to start favorite,
but it is questionable whether he will stay
the distance—he has never been tried over it.
Neither, for that matter, has The Doctor’s
Orders, whom Scobie has brought across the
border in an effort to repeat the Trivalve
coup without giving Tippler’s son a pre-
liminary gallop in public, and without being
satisfied that he is in Trivalve’s class. So
far Tippler has not given the turf a stayer.
Tregilla and Balloon King are a fairly
seasoned pair, having run a good race
(Tatt.’s Novice Handicap) over a mile and
a quarter, besides their strenuous tussle in
the Rosehill Guineas ; and it is not impro-
bable that the two will lead the other lot
home, as they did in the Guineas. Tregilla
may avenge his Rosehill defeat if he has
any luck; but the other is an improving
fellow, and no one will be greatly surprised
if Adrian Kaox shares in the glory of a
Derby victory. Sargon will be a worthy
representative of Maoriland if he is brought
to the post fit; the hard tracks have been
bothering him and most of the horses from
Maoriland. Eurythmic’s half-brother'Salvador
is a promising sort, though a bit wild, and
Sunlover was a decent third in the Rosehill
Guineas. It seems the sort of Derby to
which the bagmen will look back with satis-
faction.
Mollison galloped six furlongs in 1.14 f
at Rosehill last Saturday. If he is all right
next Saturday, he should win the Epsom.
He would not need to be absolutely at his
top to beat the indifferent lot opposed to
him, even though he has 9st. 71b. Sydney
knows him for a brilliant horse who has
thoroughly tested Phar Lap on two occa-
sions ; and one thing that will stand to
him is that he hasn’t been raced at a mile
and a half, as he was at the last two Rand-
wick spring meetings, with the result in each
case that he was temporarily knocked out.
It is hard to fancy veterans like Fuji San
(9st. 61b.) and Killarney (Bst. 61b.) —if
either wins it will be proof that the field
is one of the poorest on record —and High
Disdain (Bst. 101 b.), Holdfast (Bst. 71b.)
and Tom Pinch (Bst.) don’t impress as good
milers. Nor did Pentheus (Bst. 91b.) finish
like an Epsom horse in the Tramway Handi-
cap, though he has encompassed the distance
in indifferent company. First Sight (Bst.
61b.) has capital credentials, but he pulled
up a bit groggy after a gallop on Saturday;
mid-week or week-end rain would improve
the outlook for all the Maoriland brigade.
Three horses that this Page has a respect
for are Ruffler (Bst. 91b.), Gay Ballerina
(Bst. 81b.) and Adrian’s March (7st. 51b.),
and one of the three may win if Mollison
is unavailable or below par. And the high-
priced Dominant (7st. 101 b.) may give a
bit of trouble.
With Concentrate (9st. 31b..), Paquito
(Bst. 91b.), In the Shade (Bst. 81b.), First
Acre (Bst. 21b.) and Gay Crest (7st. 101 b.),
Maoriland is strongly represented in the Met-
ropolitan. Paquito was a close third last
year with Bst. 71b. and a good second in
the Melbourne Cup; this season he has won
two races with big weights up. He is sure
to be dangerous. Waterline (Bst. 41b.) and
Dalston (7st. 61b.) are also Maoriland-bred,
and the best has not been seen of either on
this side. However, it is difficult to imagine
any of the horses from across the Tasman
beating Cragford (7st. 51b.), who won the
Rosehill Cup brilliantly, in course-record
time, with a stone more than he will have
to carry on Monday, and hag started four
times without a defeat. Though a plain
beggar, he is a free mover, and keen to be
in the fighting line all the time; this may
not be an advantage in an exacting race like
the Metrop. John Buchan (7st. 101 b.) has
done a good preparation, and is very pro-
bably an improved horse. The same applies
to Jeypore (Bst. 21b.), though he has his
share of weight. Spearshot (7st. 31b.) can
stay, and may have an outside chance.
Horses that may be worth toting during
the -meeting are Brazenface and Greensea
among the sprinters, and Ivilumirri and
Cathmar in the eight-to-ten-furlongs lot.
Fancies: —
Trial Stakes: John Buchan; next, Con-
fider.
A. J.C. Derby: Tregilla, 1; Balloon King,
2; Salvador, 3.
Epsom: Mollison, 1; Gay Ballerina, 2;
Adrian’s March, 3. Best outsider: Ruffler.
Spring Stakes: Phar Lap.
Kensington Handicap: Greensea, 1;
Brazenface, 2; Kilumirri, 3.
Metropolitan : Cragford, 1; John Buchan,
2 ; Paquito, 3. Best outsider: Jeypore.
* * * *
Few Epsom and Metrop. candidates made
the long journey to the Hawkesbury on
Saturday, but Ruffler, Goshawk and Haba-
shon were among the starters in the Rowley
Mile. Goshawk was a 7-to-4 favorite, but
third was the best he could do. He has
been a very costly nag to punters this spring.
Ruffler, carrying his Epsom weight, and
mildly supported at sixes, jumped out first,
after giving the starter a lot of trouble,
and was never headed ; he was going easily
at the finish of a mile run in lmin, AOjSec.,
a couple of lengths ahead of Arikiwai. If
he will condescend to leave the barrier
smartly he will have to be reckoned with
in the Epsom; he was third in the Villiers
Stakes to Habashon, giving that fair horse
191 b.
Credence was another fractious brute who
got the best of the start for the Flying Han-
dicap, after playing up and disorganising
TACTLESS WIFE (to husband going in to bat ): “Well, good luck, duckie!”
the field. The advantage gained was made
the most of by Johnstone, and the grey—who
went to fives after opening at threes and came
back to 7 to 2 —just managed to beat the
favorite, Vallar, who was unlucky; Gold-
miner was third. An indifferent start never-
theless did not prevent Cronulla (5 to 2)
winning the Three-year-old Handicap. Bartle
gave a very vigorous exhibition of riding
on this smart son of March Along—Rosedell,
who is trained at Warwick Farm by Albert
Wood..
Donald was saddled up for the Spring
Handicap, and was backed, but did not shape
like a prospective Metrop. winner. The favo-
rite, Sunflare, flattered his backers for a
time, but was passed in the straight by
Tressilian (7 to 1) and Spearshot (8 to 1).
Tressilian got the better of it by a head.
* * * *
From the viewpoint of his splendid repu-
tation it was calamitous that Arno unis should
have started in the Quality Handicap at
Moonee Valley. The distance (50 yards
beyond seven furlongs) was not unduly short
for a horse that had brilliantly vanquished
Greenline and Figure in the Futurity Stakes,
but turns are more numerous at “the Valley”
than at Caulfield, and doubt existed as to
whether the course would suit Pearson’s
gelding. Odds of sto 4 were obtainable.
Just before the race there was a shower of
rain which made the track somewhat soft,
and Amounis doesn’t like it that way. In
a field of 13 he began slowly and was last
at the half-way stage. Parkwood and
Clarius set such a fast pace that the course
record was lowered by a second. Amounis
made up leeway near the turn for home, but
died on his run and finished seventh only. Wise
Force (3 to 1), handled in brainy fashion
by Frank Dempsey, smothered the leaders from
the half-distance and scored by a length from
Parkwood, who was a head in advance of
Clarius. As a test of the relative merits of
Amounis and Wise Force the race was un-
satisfactory ; nevertheless in Wise Force
Queensland has produced another good horse.
Amounis is fit as a fiddle. He need not
lessen one iota in favor for the Caulfield
Cup, but his admirers should not back him
until the day. In wet weather his chance
would be poor.
• • •
Punters had a disastrous afternoon. The
only first choice to win was Green Wave in
the last event. With' the sword of a 6d.
ticket hanging over his head, McShort-
odds gleefully witnessed Cyanate roll home at
14 to 1; Nan Cherry at a similar price, and
Dark Boy, Hasta and Princess Betty at 10
to 1 each. The Pascoe Hurdle success of
Cyanate began the debacle. This Cyklon
gelding, owned and trained by a son of
Andy Ferguson, who was a crack cross-
eopntry rider in the early ’eighties, took a
second off Vanto’s record for two miles and
50 yards over hurdles, his time being 3min.
421 sec.; he brilliantly defeated another
Moonee- Valley record-holder, Dookie. The
favorite, Swahilli, shaped miserably, though
his owner, Morrie Keleher, the biggest news-
paper vendor in Melbourne, had regarded
him as an odds-on proposition.
• • • • • .
Secretary Hiskens, a wizard in racecourse
management, has constructed a special
furlong track at Moonee Valley. For the
first three furlongs or so it traverses the
interior of the course proper, on English
lines. The spectacle of horses galloping
between rows of Flat patrons was novel and
impressive. Bay of Islands was original
favorite for the race, but Miss England (half-
sister to H'eroic) and Greencloth went out
in a point better demand than Bay of Islands
and Somalis. Neville Percival tried to win
from end to end on Bay of Islands, who is
by the defunct stallion Dane’s Voe and
belongs to Y.R.C. committeeman Manifold.
Victory rested with Nan Cherry, a shapely
little Spearhead mare, on whom Percival had
finished nearly last a week before at Mentone,
where she was kicked at the post.
By taking the Arundel Steeplechase, Dark
Boy enabled Alan Armsden, the Mildura
jockey, to register his first metropolitan suc-
cess. Dark Boy came with a late run and
pipped the favorite, MacMoylan, on the post.
Myles Connell, who retired from the saddle
after a brilliant lightweight career, supplied
the favorite for the middle-distance Tulla-
marine Handicap, his representative being
Lindbergh, who was in a point better demand
than Jack Holt’s Second Wind. Both went
under to Hasta, from Dick Bradfield’s stable.
Lou Robertson appropriated the first divi-
sion of the Ailsa Handicap with A. T. Cres-
wick’s Maoriland-bred filly, Princess Betty,
a daughter of Chief Ruler. The other divi-
sion went to Green Wave. After annexing
the Maribyrnong Plate and other juvenile
events last spring Green Wave lost form, and
the owner did not think it worth while enter-
ing him for Cups. He is small, but possesses
fine speed, like most of the Greenstead
progeny.
>!: * #
For Flemington on Saturday :
October Stakes: Amounis; next, Wise
Force.
Stand Handicap: Soulton; next, Prince
Viol.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Holder of three titles in Maoriland, Artie
Hay (10.13) • failed dismally in his clash
with middleweight champion Jack Haines
(11.6) at Sydney Stadium. The loser was
skittled early in the third round, the bout
failing to provide decent sparring exercise
for the local man. Haines let loose three
weighty rights to the. body in the second
round, and the Maorilander went down each
time. He managed to come up for the next,
but was promptly floored again.
* & * *
Wrestler Pat McGill (15st. 101 b.) tried
conclusions with Joe Steelier (16st. 41b. 1 at
Melbourne Stadium, and secured a fall with a
cradlehold in the second round. Stecher’s
patience was rewarded in the sixth, when
Pat was too weary to offer much resistance.
Joe repeated the dose in the seventh and
took the match.
Footbrawl
The V. F. League’s second semi-final pro-
vided a better spectacle than the first, though
only 40,218 persons coughed up £1836 9s.
to see it. Play up to half-time was some-
what below standard, though Richmond’s
speed and superior marking gave more oppor-
tunities, of which the team made the most
by accurate kicking—9 goals 3 behinds to
Collingwood’s 5 goals 5 behinds. On resuming
Richmond increased their lead to 28 points,
and the barrackers felt sweet. Then Colling-
wood, playing concertedly, took complete
control, piled on 8 goals clear, and at the
last change had a 22-point lead. With the
breeze behind them Richmond still had a
chance, and as they steadily overhauled
their opponents the crowd stood up and
roared. Collingwood fought their opposition
off, and added a goal and a behind, but
with five minutes to go Richmond were within
one point. Tired, Collingwood attacked
again, and notched 2 points, but
even as the bell rang a Rich-
mond forward took a mark. A
long, straight kick spelt vic-
tory, but it was 70 yards out
and failed. Collingwood won
with 14 goals 10 behinds (94
points) to 14 goals 7 behinds
(91 points). For the losers
Judkins, Hunter and Sheahan
stood out; for Collingwood,
Libbis, the Coventry brothers,
H. Collier and Rumney. Next
Saturday the ’Woodmen play
Geelong, and should collect the
goods.
* * *
The challenge final of the N.S.W. Aus-
tralian Rules League was won by Newtown
at Erskineville from South Sydney, the
winners scoring 71 (9-17) to 56 (7-13). This
was Newtown’s third win in succession.
* * * *
The Sydney Rugby League season was
further extended by the failure of Western
Suburbs, minor premiers, to defeat St. George
in the final at Sydney Sports Ground on
Saturday. St. George won 14-6, 2 tries and
4 goals by Hyland, to 3 goals. A grand final
will now have to be played, which, while
possibly benefiting the League exchequer,
seems out of place in the second week of the
official cricket season. The game was very
scraggy, St. George concentrating on spoil-
ing tactics and tackling with great deter-
mination.
* * * *
At Newcastle, the final of the N.S.W.
Soccer League Cup went to Adamstown,
which beat Cessnock, another coalfields side
and holders of the trophy, by 2 goals to nil.
(Continued on next page.)
That Bradman of golf, Bobby Jones, has
capped a meteoric career by winning the
American amateur championship, thus put-
ting up the record of four major titles in one
season, the British and American open and
amateur championships. Jones finished 8 up
and 7 to play on his opponent, Eugene
Homans.
# =s, * *
“Splash”: The latest evidence of the
manner in which the Amy Johnson complex
is spreading is seen in the case of an
American flapper named Anna Van Sike. The
lady has not got into the swimming records
yet. but she has achieved a satisfying amount
of publicity by reason of having completed
her annual swim over a mile. She has been
doing this for 50 years past, having blush-
ingly admitted to 70 summers.


GaUVEN UP WICKET—
KEEPING”
WHERE M3E you
PLAVINq THIS SEASON ? n
Bert : / The c.AnPta.»n wants me
TO FIELD AT SILLV POINT."
OUG,HT TO BE A. GiREATT
SUCCESS IN THAT POSITION"
Footbrawl
“Hotham”: Hard times or no, the Mel-
bourne public manages to find the brass for
its beloved football. The first round of the
League games prior to the semi-finals re-
sulted in £38,000 being taken at the gates.
1 his is close on a thousand pounds better
than the 1929 offertory, and £5OOO more than
the 1927 takings. In 1926 and 1928 over
£40,000 was pouched. The opening fixtures
for the season brought in £2941 for the
Saturday, a record for the past five years.
“Bumpkin” : No Brownlow medal for the
fairest and .best player in League football
ni Victoria will be awarded this year, the
committee having failed to agree on the
recipient. S. Judkins, of Richmond, H.
Collier, of Collingwood, and A. Hopkins, of
Footscray, each got four marks. A public
service would be performed if somebody
offered a tin or brass medal or other award
for the worst player of the season. There
are some players who exploit their ruffianism
deliberately for the applause it gets them
from a section of their audience. The public
presentation of a certificate for ignoble be-
havior would be hard to live down.
* * * *
“Swan” : The British Rugby Union team
finished off its tour of Australasia by beat-
ing Westralia at Perth to the tune of 73 to
3. This is rather murderous, and will do the
attempted revival of the game in the West a
lot of harm. During their tour the Britons
played 28 games. Of these they lost 8,
including three of the four Tests against
Maoriland, while Australia and N.S.W. each
defeated them. In M.L. the tourists scored
421 points to 203 in 21 games. In Australia
their tally was 208 points to 113 in 7
matches, 5 of which they won.
* * * *
“Swing th’ Boot” : N.S.W. Rugby League
has been greatly perturbed over continual
reports of some mysterious Lone Wolf in
one of the teams basking in its sunshine who
is addicted to biting his opponents. There
seems to be no very definite idea as to who
the carnivorous person is, but inquiries indi-
cate that he plays with one particular team,
and must also be a member of the forwards,
all his energies being expended in the scrums.
Backs are beyond suspicion, since they are
out in the open and the attention of the' most
lenient referee could hardly be diverted from
the spectacle of an individual biting off the
ear of his brother “sport,” that last word
being used advisedly and with intent.
“Fitzroy” : The Rugby League game seems
to be slipping as fast in Queensland as in
N.S.W. Rockhampton League, which in the
past has been one of the most flourishing
centres of the game outside the metropolis,
roused its supporters to frenzy the other
day by announcing that it was broke to the
wide and couldn’t find ground or trophy
money. Also it owed its bank £lB7, while
all the cash in hand was £l2-odd. The meet-
ing broke up in an atmosphere teeming with
threats of litigation and insolvency proceed-
ings, in addition to a general aura of blanky.
The Ins and Outs
“Aves”: George Headley of the West
Indian team (B. 24/9/’3O) is all that has
been said of him. His scores in the Tests
referred to were 176. 114, 112 and 223 with
an average of 87.87, a record that even
Bradman might be proud to claim. Another
brilliant run-getter on the side is C. A.
Roach, who scored 209 against England in
the Test in which H'eadley made his double
century, a Test the Indies won bv 289 runs.
G. C. Grant, captain of the side, has not
been in the islands for some time, having
been in residence at Cambridge, for which
he has played for the last tw T o seasons. A
solid batsman, he has scored more than one
century for the Light Blues. R. 11. Mollett,
manager of the team, was Australia’s repre-
sentative on the Imperial Board of Control
for some years.
“Methuselah”: The dead past stood on its
hind legs the other day when some cricket
enthusiasts at Tumut (N.S.W.) discovered
that a cup presented 40 years ago for competi-
tion in the district had been sleeping the long
years away on a forgotten shelf. Following
the discovery, Blowering, a neighboring dorp,
challenged Tumut, the holders of the disre-
membered trophy, and won it. Blowering’s
captain was one Pat Ilalloran, who, now 60
years young, skippered the Tumut team
which won the mug in the days of long ago.
* # ■■ *
“Aigburtli”: The sixpenny fund started by
a London journal as a testimonial to Jack
Hobbs has been closed at the level £5OO. It
was less than was expected, though many of
the mighty, from princes to politicians, threw
into the hat, and since any amount of six-
penny donations could be tendered it was
hoped that the capitalistic classes as well as
the proletariat would come at the idea. That
they didn’t is probably due to the fact that
the' great cricketer stayed a bit too long in
the game. If he had done well against the.
Australians this season, the cady would have
been overflowing. Since he didn't, he is now
experiencing the first touch of the frost
which inevitably comes to every public per-
former when his powers decline.
* * * *
“Aigburth” : Though there were three Test
matches played in Melbourne before Murdoch
took home his 1880 side, none had been
played in England until that year. Fifty
years ago this month, Murdoch’s men started
the long series with a solitary game at the
Oval. England won by 5 wickets, scoring
420 and 57 for 5 wickets; Australia’s con-
tribution was 149 and 327. In the second
innings Murdoch scored the 153 n.o. which
convinced Englishmen that a new champion
had appeared on the cricket horizon.
* * *
“Tenth Slip” : This season will be marked
by a notable advance in the policy of the
N.S.W. Cricket Association- —the organisa-
tion of country cricket on the lines of the
Rugby League, especially in regard to the
employment of coaches from the metropolis,
Fast-bowler Nicholls, of Cumberland, will
coach for Newcastle District, while Joe
Taylor, last season one of the association
travelling coaches, will act in the same capa-
city for Waratah. C. L. Garnsey, another
of the association coaches last year, has been
appointed chief coach.
* * * %
“Amateur Pro.”: The unpleasantness that
always attaches to paid sport has cropped
up in the case of the 1930 Australian
Eleven in England, as it was bound to do.
Past experience led to the players being tied
up in a contract not to do certain things.
This has been broken in the spirit if
not the letter. The Board of Con-
trol will no doubt deal with the matter in
due course. One result of the happening,
however, wall be the classification of Aus-
tralian XI players as the professionals they
are. Cricket followers in Australia are sick
of the labored convention that these highly
paid and subsidised gladiators must be con-
sidered as amateurs.
Racquet and Bawl
“Lemon”: Still another foreign tennis
association has gone back on its promise to
send a team to Australia. Italy, which had
definitely undertaken to come across with
De Morpurgo as leader, has done-a da crayfish.
As America has also side-stepped a similar
agreement it almost looks as if this country
was unpopular. A really good side to have
over here, and one which would not have to
travel so far as Italy, would be Japan. The
Nipponese would be a first-class draw, for
they play sparkling tennis, but no one seems
to have thought of inviting them.
❖ ❖ * Sfc
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Weird and wonder-
ful are the ways of the professional amateur.
The American tennis heads have just kicked
out Fred Mercur. who was sixth on the
American rating list last year, for profes-
sionalism. Freddy did not ask specifically
for bunce, but he agreed to join a big tennis
club if it would take out an insurance policy
for 25,000 dahlers —Freddy is an insurance
agent. It is hard luck on Mercur. Pretty
well every other star in the game, in America
and out of it, is working the same sort of
ramp, and no one knows it better than the
American L.T.A., which conducted the execu-
tion.
“Off Scratch”: The American takes his
sport as seriously as he does everything else,
save prohibition, perhaps. This is seen in
the recent action of A. H. Chapin, once upon
a time a leading American tennis player. On
July 12 this year he had a son born to
him, and before even the christening was
arranged for he entered the helpless infant
for the American singles championship in
1945. Australia will, perhaps, be able to
persuade an American team to visit these
shores by that time and it would be interest-
ing if the nipper of 1930 was a member of it.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Huon” : Len Nettlefold, Australia’s lead-
ing exponent of molly-handed golf, won the
open championship of Tasmania with a sen-
sational run on the rails. Ilis opponent in
the final was Jock Robertson, the ex-Vic-
torian who recently defeated Rufus Stewart
for the Australian professional championship.
Both men were on their home links at
Ivingsford Beach. Nettlefold was four
strokes down on the leader at the end of the
morning round and did not improve his
position in the first 9 holes of the after-
noon. Then he bolted, coming back in 32,
which landed him a point ahead of his adver-
sary with a card of 148. The young man
has won Queensland and Australian amateur
titles in addition.
$ * * sjt
“Carnoustie”: Someone has been writing
to the Sydney press to complain of the
prevalent impression that all golfers are
accomplished cursers, a reflection he indig-
nantly denies, adding that in 20 years of
golf he has not yet uttered a swear word.
Of eoprse, there are some games of golf
which are not worth a curse, and the Pro-
testant’s may be one of them. In any case
it recalls a Yankee player whom my friend
The Mcllaggis entertained on his private
course at Oehenone some years ago. He
was constantly in difficulties, but remained
dumb. At the nineteenth The McH. com-
mented on this. “Yeh,” said the man from
the land of the brave and free. ‘‘l don’t cuss,
but, if yu notice, every time I fluff, I spit.
Oh, boy, I tell yu, where I spit no grass don’t
grow again no more.”
* * * *
“Fluff”: One result of the strenuous time
experienced by competitors in the villainous
weather conditions during the Australian
golf championships in Melbourne is the
decision of the Australian Golf Council to in
future allow all players in the open event
a clear day’s spell before the big tourney
starts. Further, when the next meeting
comes round at Kensington (N.S.W.), the
draw will not be seeded as hitherto, the
field, as well as times of starting, being
drawn out of the hat.
* * * -1:
“Divot Digger”: The long-drawn-out
squabble between the City and Suburban
and country golf clubs on the one side, and
the two big metropolitan clubs, Royal Syd-
ney and Australian, on the other, has been
definitely ended. The N.S.W. Golf Council
will in future run the game in the State.
The two Sydney clubs will supply three
members each to the council. City and
Suburban Association will send four, and the
combined country clubs four also. One lad
from each of the two big clubs must be a
member of a City and Suburban club, and
two of the country club reps, must be mem-
bers of the Royal Sydney and the Australian
Clubs respectively. This undoubtedly gives
the Big Twins a preponderating say on the
council, which leaves the control of the
game in N.S.W. very much as it was. In
place of the proposed 2s. per head levy from
all golfers in the State, the two metropoli-
tan clubs will throw £75 each into the hat,
City and Suburban clubs £2OO in all, and
combined country £l5O. Country, at least, is
about as pleased with the arrangement as
the proverbial shipwrecked sailor who found
what he thought was a bottle of whisky on
the beach.
* * * *
“Gnoolooma”: The announcement that a
Queensland professional was laying out a
golf course at Goondiwindi recalls fond
memories of Mungindi, an adjacent hamlet
which straddles the Queensland-N.S.W. boun-
dary. Some golf enthusiasts on either side
of the border formed a club, and to
aArnid the inter-State jealousies so prevalent
in those pre-Federal days, half the course was
in Queensland and half in N.S.W., the
usually dry bed of the Mclntyre River being
an important bunker. We reckoned without
the- customs officers who were then estab-
lished by each State on either side of the
border, these being extremely jealous officials.
Material bought in Sydney and taken across
the border in the course of a match was fre-
quently made the basis of a demand for
duty from the Queenslanders, Brisbane clubs
and balls being similarly treated by the
N.S.W. officials, so much trouble ensued. We
had two nineteenth holes, one being a pub
in Queensland and the other a sister. institu-
tion in N.S.W. The climax came when a
Queensland player did himself thoroughly
well on the N.S.W. side, and started to play
back into his own State. He was held up
by the Queensland customs for attempting
to smuggle liquor and ordered to pay the
duty and fine, in addition to having the con-
traband goods confiscated. The club dis-
banded.
“Baffy” : Much interest is being taken by
golfers in the deliberations now in progress
at St. Andrews on the question of adopting
the new American lighter and larger ball.
The old club has already surrendered to
American opinion in regard to steel shafts,
but British opinion seems to be definitely
against the proposed change in the ball. Play-
ing down the wind, it is possible for a long
driver to gain even greater distance with
the new ball than with the present British
standard pill. Into a wind, however, the
American ball is much harder to deal with,
and inevitably will make the difficult game
more difficult for the handicap player. One
regrettable result of disagreement on the
standard ball question will probably be the
abandonment of the numerous international
tournaments between Britain and America
which have been such a feature of latter-
day golf.
Car and Cycle
“Chassis”: The British light car is
forcing its way into American notice.
Indeed, it has gone further than that, since
one at. least of the most famous English
makes has established a factory in America,
the designer and manufacturer of this car
being, incidentally, a Victorian by birth.
Pemberton Billing, once a firebrand in the
House of Commons, has gained fresh adver-
tisement by driving a Riley Nine across
America from east to west under supervised
non-stop conditions in 5 days 20 hours 18
minutes. The route taken included some 3000
miles of good roads and 1200 of quite the
other sort. The last 130 miles were covered
in two hours, a fine sporting performance,
both on the part of the car and driver.
“Takapuna”: Maoriland lias been quick
to realise the possibilities of the Ninety-
mile Beach, brought into world promi-
nence by the record-breaking spin of Nor-
man Smith and Don Darkness. A film pre-
pared by the M.L. Government, which
depicts the beach from end to end, was
recently shown at the British Racing
Drivers’ ,Club dinner, a function at which
all the heads of the motor world foregather.
H. .T. Butcher, on behalf of the Auckland
Automobile Association, improved the occa-
sion by inviting any or all of the famous
drivers present to put up new world’s figures
on the M.L. sand strip.
* * *
“Whizz”: The English motor-cycle rider
J. S. Wright did not long enjoy his new
world’s record for the flying mile and kilo-
metre, made when he capped the figures of
the German rider Henne by cutting out
the run at the rate of 135.85 m.p.h. for the
mile and 137,237 m.p.h. for the kilometre.
Henne has done the distances at Munich
in 137.6 for the kilometre and 136.38 for
the mile. His feat is the more creditable
since he rides a comparatively small machine
compared with that steered by Wright, the
respective capacities being 750c.c. and 998c.c.
A supercharger has been successfully utilised
on the German’s jigger, however, and that
seems to have landed him home with the
bacon.
“Kick Starter”: A. Denly, the English
motor-cycle rider, has put up a new record
for a continuous 200-mile run at Brooklands
on a 500-c.c. A.J.S. His average was 97.26
m.p.h., including stops for fuel and oil. Denly
holds most of the world’s track records for
motor-cycles, and looks like collecting a few
more before the season closes this month.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: The Sydney to Melbourne
road-race to, begin on October 20 is the first
of its kind in Australia to be run under Con-
tinental conditions, the procedure followed
being that observed in the Tour de France
classic. The distance to be covered is 700
miles divided into five daily stages, the first
being 134 miles to Goulburn. The shortest
stage is from Wagga to Albury, 90 miles,
and the longest the 181-mile run in from
Shepparton to Melbourne. The big entry
includes the two French ci’acks Mauclair
and Bidot.
Miscellaneous
“Old Q.” : Queensland athletic circles have
been treated to a new experience—-the spec-
tacle _ of a suspended athlete obtaining an
interim injunction from the Courts to
restrain the State athletic authorities from
refusing his nomination for certain events.
Plaintiff was Michael O’Brien, who recently
• won the Queensland shot-putting champion-
ship. After the event his shot was im-
pounded by the stewards, it being alleged
it was not of the standard 161 b. weight. The
shot was found to be nine ounces light, and
though O’Brien explained the reasons for this
he was disqualified for life, the term being
subsequently reduced to two years. As a
result of the injunction, the Queensland
Association has lifted the disqualification,
and “as you were” is the order of the day.
❖ ❖ * H:
“C. Bumpkin” : I see no point* in the criti-
cism of the Americans for importing addi-
tional machinery into the equipment of the
Enterprise. A rope is as much a machine as
a gypsy winch, and however many gadgets are
installed in a sailing vessel its performance
will still depend on seamanship. No amount
of machinery for registering the strain on
sails, etc., will replace the judgment of the
skipper, since he will still have to deal with
such imponderable factors as the wind, the
tide and the jobbly ocean, the mastery of
which can only come from experience. When
the America crossed the Atlantic and sailed
all round the English yachts there was a
general outcry that her uncanny performance
could only be due to an engine hidden some-
where in her interior. There was this much
truth in the assertions —that she was a more
efficient sailing-machine than the English
vessels.
sjc -I* -!•
“Aileron”: The R.A.F. in some recent
trial flights with a super-charged Gloster-
Napier ticked off more than six miles a
minute. The official Schneider Cup figure is
357.7 m.p.h., made by English Squadron-
leader Orlebar, in a Supermarine Rolls-
Royce last year.
■'f --i: s|s *
“C.Q.”: Melbourne has just inaugurated
a gliding club, and there have been state-
ments to the effect that it is the first, of its
kind in Australia. .As a matter of fact,
Adelaide has had such a club for a couple
of years past, and one of its members, J. K.
Rice, an instructor in the Aero Club, recently
stayed aloft at Sellick’s Hill for an hour and
two minutes. This is claimed to be a record
for a Briton. An Adelaide city man with
an orchard at the foot of the hills frequently
uses his glider to go home for lunch from the
elevated end of his property. He transports
the engineless machine to the top of a hill
per horse and cart, the only fly in the oint-
ment being that he has to go back for the
vehicle.


(jEcre
was
There was a man (and his name is
legion) who loved good cheese.
He had tried all kinds and brands—
had nosed his way among the
weird products of other lands—
but soon tired of them all.
Even ordinary cheddar often upset
his digestion and his temper —for
sometimes it was too new and
green, sometimes too old and strong.
His wife confided at last in her
grocer who promptly said, " Give
him REX Luncheon Cheese. It is
full-cream cheese made into spread-
able form when just at the correct
stage of perfect maturity, and packed
in handsome opal porcelain jars and
4 oz. and 2 oz. cans. Being always
perfectly matured, its food value is
always at the maximum, it is always
an aid to digestion, and its flavour
is always piquant and perfect/'
She took his advice—the man is
happy—he never tires of REX
LUNCHEON CHEESE.
Cv
n
u
l “
t. _ t
%
CtgX
m
iSH
FOGGITT JONES PTY. LTD.
Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon.
REX SALMONELLE FINGERS.
Cut toast into finger shapes and spread fairly
thickly with Rex Salmonelle.
Take 1 hard-boiled egg, chop white and yolk
separately, cover the ends of toast with the yolk,
and centre part with white of egg and serve cold.
Separate white from yolk with spread of chopped
parsley.
ROTIES a la MINIME.
Cut slices of stale bread into rounds and
fry a golden brown. Spread with Rex Salmonelle.
Slice some tomatoes and put a piece on each
round; season with pepper and salt.' Cut some
Rex Bacon into very thin slices, roll each slice
so that they meet in the middle; place on top
of tomatoes. Cook in oven until bacon is done.
SUPPORT AN AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY.
REX Salmonelle, in dainty glass jars, is a
very high-class fish paste with a delicate flavor.
Other choice REX fish pastes are REX Anchovy
Paste and REX Bloater Paste. Like REX
Luncheon Cheese and all the REX Sandwich
Delicacies and canned meats, they are made in
Australia by Australian labor. They are packed
in glass made in Australia, and other industries
that benefit are rubber, tin printing, labels, cases,
etc. In preferring these REX products of home
manufacture to the imported article, patriotism
goes hand in hand with self-interest; for REX
products compare as favorably if not more than
favorably in quality and price with the best
imported.
Excellent
Recipes
REX LUNCHEON CHEESE STRAWS.
One cup flour, 1 tablespoonful Rex Luncheon
Cheese, pinch of salt and cayenne pepper to taste.
Mix all together with a little milk to a firm
paste, then roll out and cut into strips two inches
long and as thin as possible. Place them on a
dish and bake in a fairly slow oven for ten
minutes. (No eggs or butter required with Rex
Luncheon Cheese.)
REX LUNCHEON CHEESE RAREBITS.
Mix a little cayenne pepper with the yolk of
1 egg in 4oz. Rex Luncheon Cheese, then spread
iin. thick on toast cut into small squares and
bake in a fast oven or salamander for three
minutes.
CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN.
According to size of vegetable, 2 to 4 ounces
Rex Luncheon Cheese, sufficient thick white sauce
to cover. Boil cauliflower until tender; strain
and press into dish in which to be served. Add
Rex Luncheon Cheese to white sauce and pour
over cauliflower. Save a little of the cheese to
place on top with tip of knife. Bake in moderate
oven until nicely browned.
Note.—Marrow, pumpkin, cooked haricot
beans are delicious if done as above. Cut the
marrow and pumpkin in li- to 2-inch portions
before boiling.
Green Corn. —After the ear has been cooked,
remove com from cob with sharp knife and treat
as above.
REX LUNCHEON CHEESE OMELETTE (1)
(For two Persons).
Three eggs, 1 tablespoonful of milk, salt and
pepper. Mix in a china vessel and pour mixture
in an almost dry but hot frying-pan. When it is
set, place Rex Luncheon Cheese (1 good table-
spoonful to 2 eggs) in centre and roll the omelette
over; let brown for five seconds. Serve hot.
REX LUNCHEON CHEESE OMELETTE (2).
Two eggs, 2oz. Rex Luncheon Cheese, loz.
Cowslip butter, 1 level teaspoonful chopped
parsley, pepper and salt. Separate yolks of eggs
from whites. Beat yolks and Rex Luncheon Cheese
together, add parsley and seasoning. Beat whites
of eggs to good froth, add to mixture and beat
well. Place butter in omelette pan, when hot pour
in mixture, stirring until mixture sets. Shake the
pan occasionally to prevent sticking. Fold in
two, when light brown turn out and serve.
REX LUNCHEON CHEESE PUFFS.
Two eggs, 1 cup self-raising flour, 1 cup milk,
4oz. Rex Luncheon Cheese, pepper and salt. Sift
flour and seasoning. Separate yolks of eggs from
whites. Beat yolks and cheese well together, add
milk gradually, beat whites and add. Keep
stirring while sifting in flour, mix well. Drop
from spoon into deep dripping and fry a rich
brown.
SAUCE ROYAL.
' Place a tablespoonful butter in a saucepan;
when melted add half a cup cf flour, stir it well,
then add two cupsful of boiling milk (off the
fire); when smooth work in two spoonsful of
Rex Luncheon Cheese and the yolk of 1 egg.
Spread this on boiled cauliflower, baked fish or
oysters in shell and bake in a fast oven for five
minutes.
REX SALMONELLE SAVOURY (1).
Cut some tomatoes into rounds and fry in a
little butter; have ready some small rounds of
buttered toast or small Sao biscuits. Spread
with Rex Salmonelle, put a slice of tomato on
each and cover with grated cheese. Decorate
with a few capers. Put in oven for a few minutes
and serve hot or cold.
REX SALMONELLE SAVOURY (2).
Take rings of hard-boiled egg with yolk out,
place on round pieces of toast. Fill rings with
Rex Salmonelle (after being mixed with yolk).
Take rashers of fried Rex Bacon and circle round
egg and salmonelle. Garnish with parsley.
REX SALMONELLE RISSOLES.
Four ounces Rex Salmonelle, 2 cups bread
crumbs, 2 eggs, I small onion, 1 teaspoonful pars-
ley, pepper and salt, 1 tablespoonful tomato sauce.
Chop onion and parsley, mix with bread crumbs,
work in Rex Salmonelle, add tomato sauce, season
to taste. Beat the egg yolks well, add and mix all
thoroughly. Have deep dripping in frying-pan,
drop mixture into this from teaspoon and fry to
a nice brown both sides.
REX SALMONELLE OR BLOATER PASTE
PATTIES.
One 2oz. jar Rex Salmonelle or Bloater Paste,
1 level cup bread crumbs, pepper, salt, 1 cup
self-raising flour, 2oz. Cowslip butter, 1 egg and
a little milk. Mix well with hands Rex Salmon-
elle or Bloater Paste and bread crumbs, moisten
with a little milk, season to taste. For the
pastry: Rub butter through flour, beat yolk of egg
well, add sufficient milk to mix flour into stiff
paste. Press out two or three times on floured
board and roll out thin. Line greased patty
tins and place in hot oven until light brown.
Take out, nearly fill with mixture, cover with
more pastry, brush over tops with beaten white
of egg and return to oven until cooked.
These Recipes are from the REX Recipe Book. Write for the book, and mention “The Bulletin.”


c
■
m
r
A
Ik
■
'I
■
1
■S3
/
a
J
K
■
A
g
till II
(FULLY FASHIONED)
A SERVICE SHEER
STOCKING.
Beautiful fine
texture — yet
serviceable ♦
1
m
■
m
mm
An extremely serviceable
deep silk welt takes all
the suspender strain.
fdg
The foot as indicated
is most serviceably and
scientifically reinforced.
This hosiery must be
seen to be appreciated.
Realising for some time
the need of a finer texture
stocking and yet one
which would uphold the
Prestige tradition of serv-
ice and quality, we have
producedNo.6ooService
Sheer. We are confident
that our latest truly
beautiful creation offers
an irresistible appeal.
We offer you in No. 600
all the latest Parisian
Shades .
17/6 per pair.
Jre-stiae
KSh A/ LIMITED
WHOLLY AUSTRALIAN
P 1 D


For the Spring and Summer
Evenings.
MONDAY TO FRIDAY.
DELIGHTFUL SUPPER DANCES.
Commencing at 8 p.m.—and
finishing at midnight.
SUPPER 5/ including dancing.
Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY NIGHT. LATE NIGHT.
Evening Dress Only.
Special Supper from 9 p.m., 10/6
dancing till 2 a.m.
JACK WOOD’S POPULAR
AMBASSADOR ORCHESTRA.
Afternoon Tea { 3.30 till 5.30, 2/6
Dansant ) Saturday . . 4/-
’Phone M 4131.
•'"Cta.. A*t^ —’
i BE " OERi i
' FOOD
°" nf 4ms. Invalids, and.tM**
.Vc
■Tfci --SS
Booklet post free from BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
for
Infants
Invalids
and
the Aged
Be*d. Tuadb Maul
Food
Under"
Royal
Warrant
dfd
ToH.M.
Kin*
GeorgeV
Vintage 1920. (
CHAMPAGNE (
Charleslleidsieck
mini
Australasian Agents—
Swift & CompanyUmltad
SYDNEY.
CHAMPAGNE
Qiarleslleidsic^
Reims
fcnv "’ 8,13"
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Asrer is—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER.
There was nothing parochial in the Kitano
Maru’s choice of bunting when she dressed
herself for the District Nursing Association’s
Ball. She fluttered a flag of every nation
in greeting to her guests, .among them the red
and gold emblem of the Soviet. Under the
sickle and mallet of Russia quite a few
red frocks, in tone though probably not in
spirit with the flag’s background, fluttered
in the cold night. Chief Justice Street’s
lady, who was president of the dance, wore
cherry-red chiffons, and Mrs. J. B. Williams
flew heartening flame and gold draperies.
This was the first time in the Sydney his-
tory of the Nippon Yusen Kaisha that
one of their ships had been lent for a
charity, and so courteous and friendly was
the skipper, and so obliging the chef, who
had made a monster cake as a prize for the
guessing competition, that dance organisers
of the future are eagerly adding another
name to their list of complaisant shipping
companies. The prize cake was fashioned
into the model of a Japanese pagoda. There
were doves on the roof, and it was sur-
rounded by cherry-trees interspersed with
tiny lamps. On the trees were no fewer
than 800 little flowers. Berthed beside the
Japanese ship was a German vessel, and
the crew leaned over its rails and took a
keen delight in the goings-on aboard its
neighbor; so altogether the dance was a kind
of unofficial League of Nations. The Japanese
community supported the dance nobly; not
only Consul-General Inoue but Vice-Consul
Okumura joined the official party. Those
attractive twins Veda and Myra Raven
were the night’s secretaries. Mrs. 11. 11.
McNall, in powder-blue chiffons, guarded the
treasury. Etlielwyn Kirk, a convalescent
in Molong, was allowed out for the night
and plunged into the gaieties until midnight
sent her back to her bed in the Darlinghurst
hospital.
The Canberra must have worn a deserted
appearance on Thursday evening, with so
many of its young men viewing the dramatic
efforts of the Doone School players at the
Maccabean Hall. One or two earnest lieu-
tenants sat in the front row and led the
applause, and even though they hadn’t known
some of the debutante ex-pupils of the Edge-
cliff school, the acting of the girls under
Eleanor Ross’s direction deserved it. Pinero’s
one act, “The Playgoers,” was a success, and
Margaret Honey as Whimsey Drew in that
fantastic little conceit “The Red Umbrella”
was both pretty and clever. Two of her
dresses had been designed by Keith Smith’s
lady, and one was a dusky blue, old-fashioned
creation lent by Anne Gordon. But this
Letter liked most of all the green, rose-
sprigged muslin worn in the second act.
Among the hosts of young men who acted
as ushers and audience were Stuart Jamieson,
Harry Dangar and John Fairfax. AH are
addicted to grease-paint, Harry . Dangar
so much so that he may be joining the
J.C.W. firm at any moment. Harry is
clever with other paints, too, and is the
man behind the brush in that pretty little
pastoral “Mulberry Farm” in the Society of
Artists’ Show. Johnnie Mant and Reg
North were both in the cast, so could not
be in the front. Norah Cazabon notched a
success as the nurse in “The Red Umbrella.”
The girls got as many flowers as Melba ever
received at Covent Garden. The chairs
creaked or scarcely fluttered (according to
the diet) under the weight of tlie highest
society, and Miss Crowdy brought Rosemary
and David Game to see the fun.
Sedate, and bordered with a proper deco-
rum, the Forum Club reception to Sir Philip
and Lady Game hardly deserved the adjec-
tive of “dullish” which one of the few very
young guests applied to it. The frocking
was sufficiently handsome, and most of the
ladies seemed to have let their hair grow,
if they had ever gone through the shingle-
short period, for puffs and wreaths of hair
were the order of the night. The big excite-
ment in the suave uneventfulness was the
arrival of the Governor and his lady. Rosy-
cheeked .Commander Gifford aided them; and
at one moment he might have suggested a
pleasing subject for Botticelli —a cherub
surrounded by matrons.
After a triumph, a feast. The Aero Club
followed tradition last week after the suc-
cess of the aerial pageant. The Wentworth
sparkled for the occasion, and airmen—air-
women, too —from other States were suitably
impressed with the glittering display of
silverware which, just before the dancing,
was distributed, piece by piece, with suitable
paeans of praise, by the Aero Club’s presi-
dent, Captain Geoffrey Hughes. Last of all,
he had to hand the cup for the Public
Schools’ I-lead-of-the-Air race to himself as
the representative of Riverview. It was
impressive to observe how many of our
Great Public Schools have turned out not-
able flying men; Sydney Grammar, Joey’s,
Fort-street, Newington and others flaunted
their colors in flower and ribbon among the
array of tables. Freda Deaton, in a silver
swathe, and Miss E. M. Follett, in a frivol-
ous frock of parchment lace, were among
those who carried home trophies and blushed
modestly, as did Mrs. John Terry and Phyllis
Arnott when Captain Hughes said that the
“four women pilots had put up the finest race
and finish of the Saturday.” The Geoffrey
Hughes table was large and hospitable, and
at it many Queenslanders sat. Mrs.
Geoffrey shone like a de luxe violet. Mrs.
Smythe, wife of the club’s secretary, aired
primrose chiffons. Among the group at
Major de Havilland’s table the intrepid Mrs.
John Terry glittered in jet, and airmen Moir
and Owen were notables. Phyllis Forsaytli
was sheathed in black velvets, which swung
a shoulder trail of white gardenias. Mrs.
Les Holden wore flowing sable velvets, and
Mrs. Rupert Boyd added larkspur blue satin
to the night’s color scheme.
The relict of General Lawford—if that’s
what you call one who has relinquished her
husband in the Divorce Court —is returning
to Australia with her tall, slim son.
He is the fruit of her union with the late
Oswald Watt, brother of Ernest, whom she
married when she was Muriel Williams, belle
of Melbourne, over a quarter of a century
ago. The young man got very little of the
considerable Watt fortune, his father’s idea
being to encourage him to become , one of
the world’s workers. He is an engineer.
The sun shone hot, and Rose Bay was
blue as a gentian on Saturday afternoon
when the Royal Motor Yacht Club’s fleet
held its first carousal of the season. The
place when the craft got into action sounded
more like a rifle-range or an engagement in
Flanders, but the R.M.Y.C. company are
merely exalted by explosives, and have no
back chat for back fire. These speedboats
progress through the water in a succession
of leaps or prances; when they are not really
in a hurry they run around on one end
cutting swathes of tumbling blue water.
When in high action they are shrouded in
dashing spray and. foam, and the whole
makes a spirited picture to yacht fans on
the club verandahs and jetties. The names
of the busy boats were pleasantly descrip-
tive; Idono, Silver Spray, Greyhound, Flying
Fish, Struth, Red Fire and so on. The flag-
ship, of course, was the impressive Miramar
11., Commodore Stuart Doyle’s 22-carat
yacht. The family cabin is done in Louis
XIV. style, and there are eight guest cabins
smartly dressed in cretonne. There’s room
on the deck for an intimate dance, and there’s
a fair-sized saloon and lounge.
Of Derby-night fixtures one of the most
successful promises to be the Diggers’ Child-
ren’s Ball. This, by grace of Mrs. Mac-
lurcan, will be
held at the
Wentworth en-
tirely free of
expenses; the
lady in this
picture, Mrs.
Gordon Ben-
nett, wife of
the Major-Gen-
eral, is the
active presi-
dent of the
commit tee
working for
the noble
object. Three
Digger causes
will share the
profits: Fur-
lough House
(the holiday
home for sol-
diers’ wives
and kiddies),
the Limbless Soldiers’ Fund and the
Returned Soldiers and Sailors’ Association.
Photograph from Howard Harris studio.
Josie Melville was a star attraction at
the bridge party held to help the funds of
the Diggers’ Children’s Ball on Derby night.
This had been arranged by Betty and Kath-
erine Sevier, and Josie, in a taking blue and
white outfit, sold cigarettes and sweets.
Mayoress Hilda Marks was one of the after-
noon’s important people, and the Higgins
girls and Nancy Bavin were among the
players.
Old Boys of St. Joseph’s College and their
best girls foregathered in great strength at
David Jones’s in the interests of the Second
Bursary fund. The objective is £lOOO, and
the hunt is in full cry. The football flag
won by the college team this year proudly
floated over the official table.
There is no sign of depression at the
“miget” golf course in the basement of the
State Theatre. The other afternoon, between
four and five, men' and women were queued
up at every green waiting their chance to
take a slap at the ball with their puttings.
American Consul Tredwell’s wife and Mrs.
Leon Lyons arranged a tournament there on
Thursday of last week in aid of the Indus-
trial Blind Institution, and golfing enthu-
siasts and Society turned up in great
numbers. Among the players were Miss Leo
Wray, the N.S.W. woman golf champion,
and former champion Mrs. Clements. Profes-
sionals Soutar and Popplewell tried a bout
with them and won. But the victors passed
on the prize, a batch of golf balls.
Mrs. Pitt Rivers, the handsome daughter
of the handsome Lord Forster, our former
G.-G., is still walking the boards. Her latest
piece of work was in a London production of
“Lady Windermere’s Fan.” The lady will
be remembered by Sydneyites as acting very
successfully in several amateur productions
for which she had been coached by Dion
Boucicault, and then as appearing profes-
sionally, and not quite so successfully, as
Lady Mary Carlisle in a J.C.W. production
of “Monsieur Beaucaire.”
Adelaide Perry, the girl in this Newman
photograph, is
one of Syd-
ney’s clever
artists. In the
just - ended
Society of Art-
ists’ show she
exhibited two
striking por-
traits, the sub-
jec t s being
Basil Burdeit
and Mary Gil-
mor e. Miss
Perry, who
studied in
Melbourne and
London, is on
the staff of
veteran Julian
Ashton’s Art
School, and is
a member of
the Society of
Artists.
Maorilanders at home regard Sydney as
the Paris of the Pacific, and the ambition of
all its fluttersome young things is to have at
least one gay flight among its arc lights.
But Maorilanders in Sydney remember the
emerald green of the grass in the Shaky
Isles. They remember the streets of steps
that rise sheer (or so it seems) to the
skyline. They think of the gold of the
kowhai, the bush ferns and the friendly little
cities and the long summer twilights, and
the nostalgia causes them to greet other
Maorilanders as though they were all mem-
bers of some blessed secret society. That is
how the New Zealand Women’s Association
came to be formed, and last week its mem-
bers held high corroboree in honor of
Dominion Day. In the morning, amidst
pictures of Milford Sound and such hearten-
ing legends as Haeremai and Kia-ora, they
drank tea, 50 strong, at the Arts Club and
listened to a programme contributed by
Elsie and Nellie Black, Grace Saville and
Stewart Gurr. In the evening a ball at
the same address drew the male as well as
the female Enzedder.
Last week Jewry reached its 56915 t birth-
day. It celebrated its New Year’s Day,
Bosh Hashonoh, by a service in the Syna-
gogue, at which the Shofar, or ram’s horn
trumpet, rang out clarion-like as though
rejoicing over the bad old days of oppression
gone for ever. Followed feasting in every
home, and wherever there were children there
were toys and candles. This Vvednesday is
another important day for the Jews —Yom
Kippur, the Day of Atonement. From sun-
set of the day previous to sundown .of
the holy day itself neither food nor drink
will pass the lips of the devout Jew.
Probably by the time this Letter flutters
its pink mitt at you the sale of Lambert’s
work will have overtopped the 6000-guinea
figure. Before the official opening by Pre-
mier Bavin last Thursday it was past the
5000 mark. Mrs. Lambert can do with it
all, and the buyers, especially of the smaller
works, will have many chances to make a
bit on their bargain as the years pass. All
the Best People were busy buying a Lambert
at a private show last Wednesday. Anthony
Horderns’ Art Gallery, set about with Queen
Anne chairs and cabinets, made an opulent
setting for the people in the pictures, and for
the women in mink, silver fox and sable, who
nonchalantly flipped a finger towards 75 or
100 guineas’ worth of canvas while husband
meekly reached for his cheque-book. Arthur
Allen got a bargain, the cheapest bit of
color in the show —a porch set about with
poinsettias, at Arthur’s own home at
Merioola—priced at only eight guineas.
Johnnie Pye found a horse in a yellow rug
standing against an unfinished background,
and is stabling it in his own dining-room
out Camden way. Warwick Fairfax paid
150 for a canvas showing cavalry in action;
his mother contented herself with a pencil
sketch. Earl Beauchamp ruminated among
the pictures of the open spaces, and Russell
Grimwade, of Melbourne, snatched up the
Australian landscape this writer had ear-
marked for her own, and to buy -which she
had almost decided to mortgage the old arm-
chair.
Lambert’s work is essentially dramatic.
His war nurses, soldiers, ladies and costers
all have the air of making a smart stage
entrance after receiving their cue,. and of
being in the act of flinging their weight into
the argument. Provocative people, most of
these Lambert creatures! You feel you are
going to disagree violently with, or applaud
vigorously, their point of view. The drama-
tic has even crept into his landscapes ; they
give the impression of being merely back-
grounds for drama that is just around the
corner. This same touch of the theatre is
in the painting of King Edward and his
horse which Mrs. Lambert has presented to
the Commonwealth, and which will find a
home at Canberra. You feel that Edward
might be just setting out to
... .ride along the van
The foe’s advancing force to scan,
or to slay a dragon and rescue a lady.
The official opening found hundreds of ex-
pensive shoes being trodden on by shoes of
the same class. There were photographers
and press people and unofficial ambassadors
from the important clubs in the jamb.
The National Gallery, in the person
of Director Jimmy MacDonald and L.
G. Waterhouse, was woven in the after-
noon’s mesh, while the president of the
Society of Artists, Sydney Ure Smith, made
an impressive speech in spite of a bad cold.
John Lane Mullins discussed art and essays ;
Johnnie Pye talked of shows in Paris,
whither he' is again trekking. The. C. L.
Jones couple were there, she radiant in very
smooth plumage of canary yellow; with
them walked Mrs. Oscar Paul, like a knutty
little middy in her navy suit with its braided
stripes on the left sleeve, and sporting
the shallowest crowned hat worn that day.
It was of black shiny hair straw and very
smart. Ann Gordon smiled at irregular
intervals below a parchment lace straw hat.
Her mother was small-hatted and befurred.
Others who viewed the pictures were Edith
Hill; Dr. C. R. M. Crookston, of Camden;
Lud Mayor Marks; Town Clerk Layton, be-
wailing the rape of the flowers in his Leura
garden by the barbaric westerly; Mrs. Nor-
man Pilcher; Faith Macarthur Onslow,, in
green; Enid Falkiner, in black and white;
a Melbourne Miss Spowers; the. Ernest
Watts: Mrs. Din Garvan; the Wilfrid Fair-
faxes ; Mrs. Stainton, Mrs. Lambert’s sister;
two sisters of the dead artist, Miss Ida
Lambert and Mrs. V. Cox, who has George’s
first water-color; the pianist Backhaus
couple; Hugh Ward; and Mrs. Eva Wunder-
lich, who aired a complete new outfit in
pearly greys.
That fine patriotic activity the Australian
Inland Mission is growing rapidly nowadays;
to the Aerial Medical Service, established
to help out the 12 mission hospitals which
are making life safe in the waste, spots of
Australia, it has now added an air patrol.
Not only the A.I.M. stations but many
isolated homesteads are equipped with special
radios for both sending and receiving mes-
sages, fitted up by A.I.M. expert Traeger.
The power is generated by a pedal attach-
ment, and women in the great Outback are
adding telegraphy to their other housewifely
duties. Before the Mission got going medical
assistance was practically unavailable for
those who ventured into the wilds; to-day
wireless and the aerial patrol have altered
all that. The wireless message goes out
and the air doctor arrives. As a consequence
women are becoming more numerous in the
Open Spaces.
The local representative of the Ufa Com-
pany staged an unusual party at the Union
Theatre in Pitt-street on Friday night. The
first German talkie to be imported to Aus-
tralia was shown, and the rep. gave a lec-
ture on it beforehand to a mixed assemblage
of journalists and mere citizens —the latter
including Consul-General Busing and a num-
ber of sword-slashed Germans and Bill
Curtis, K.C., and his pretty wife. Two
features of the picture —a stark war horror
called “The Last Company”—are its diver-
gence from every Hollywood convention, and
its perfect English. Ex-Diggers in the audi-
ence said it was the first dinkum war pic-
ture they had ever seen. The Germans, with
their usual thoroughness, have mastered the
art of ghosting the players’ voices to such
purpose that one gets the effect of an
obviously German officer talking to indis-
putably German soldiers in the voice of an
English Guardee. It is uncanny.
Latest word from Dorothy Ilelmrich
reports a complete recovery from her recent
illness, which had its beginning in an
abscessed tooth. Since then she has been
singing in Holland, and there, to her
delight and surprise, two old Mosman friends,
Mrs. Leahy and Mosman Musical Society
Conductor Norman, called round to see her.
It was under Norman’s baton that Dorothy
made her first appearance in opera. She was
Tessa in “The Gondoliers.” When Miss
Ilelmrich wrote she was at Lady Cooper’s
home, Lytton Lodge, in Herts., getting ready
for an English concert season that will last
till December. This, will be followed by
another season in Holland. After that come
Poland, South Germany, Brussels, Paris and,
in March, the U.S.A.


MF
"Knmrn fh e
We rid over
-1
re**
.. U« W K.t
fg l
m& s
H ••
. _s\
mm. m
' V
K
fcl"?:
««
re«?R
r*
■:S
' S
s m
gMi'MTfwi
II
m
ms-
t m | n iyh£m
! 111 j
iiiSPifi
r:/”
V-
'£' : l
mM
ffi
•'W ?
Confidence in Toiletries
Vken buying “4711” Eau de Cologne or “4711” Eau de Cologne Toiletries
you may rest assured tkat you are obtaining all you will expect, and more,
“47 11” Eau de Cologne incarnation of ckarm and fragrance; “4711" Toiletries
faithful ministers in My Lady’s service! To aid and to preserve your beauty, to guard
your daintiness, always pin your faitk to these delightful beauty preparations made by the
House of “4711”.
The numeral "4711" and the Blue and Gold Label are their Hall-mark and their Shield.
Genuine
Eau de
ologne


Legal Notices.
PETITION has been presented to the Court of
Session in Scotland (Second Division; Lord
Murray Ordinary; Mr. Maclaren, Clerk) by James
Gilliland and others to fix the date of death of
Robert Allan Gilliland (son of the deceased James
Gilliland, “Westerlea,” Lenzie, Scotland), whose
address prior to the outbreak of war in 1914 was
Post Office, Ilia Tia, Auckland, New Zealand, and
who in 1922 is believed to have resided at
Wangarei, New Zealand (North Island). AVill any
person who knows the present whereabouts of the
said Robert Allan Gilliland please communicate with
SC e OTT b & r GLOYER, W.S., 1 Hill Street, Edinburgh,
August, 1930. Agents for the Petitioners.
TO THOMAS HEARPS formerly of Glenbrook in
the State of New South Wales but now of
parts unknown TAKE NOTICE that Albert Vaughan
formerly of Leongatha now of McCutcheon Street
Northeote in the State of Victoria Butcher has
instituted proceedings against his wife AGNES
MATILDA VAUGHAN of Sydney in the State of
New South Wales for divorce on the grounds of
desertion and adultery UNLESS YOU ENTER AN
APPEARANCE in the Prothonotary’s office of the
Supreme Court in Melbourne on or before the
Twenty-first day of October now next the Petition
may proceed in your absence.
G. GORDON HILL, Solicitor.
Temple Court, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Wentworth Hotel’s New Tariffs
Single Room, Bed and Breakfast, from . 12/6
Single Room, Bath, Bed and Breakfast, from 157-
Single Room, Inclusive, from 20/-
Single Room, with Bath, Inclusive, from 22/6
Double Rooms are charged at Double Rates.
Private Suites Quoted on Application.
EVERY SATURDAY.
Dinner Dances, from 7.30 12/6
Supper Dances, from 8.30 8/6
Or a la Carte.
Afternoon Tea Dansant, from 3.30 3/-
Uf>e WENTWORTH
Church Hill, Sydney
7hp cen/ne of Queen s/onc/s
of/s//ngu/s/>ec/ Socio/ Life.
ifennotß
W)otc\
Magnificent B a 11*
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central BS'illl —6 Lines.
gfd
Melbourne
Chatter
Buck leu 's
Tea Rooms
P[?] Contral 800 [ ?]
Buckley C-nunm limited
[?]
The C.W.A.’s Show-week party served a
double purpose in providing social contact for
members visiting the city for the Show and
contributing to the expenses of the associa-
tion’s annual exhibition. St. Kilda Plaza was
the scene of the jollo, run on cabaret lines.
Lord and Lady Somers were present, her
Ex.’s turquoise satin making an effective
background for a presentation posy of prim-
roses. The official guests made entrance to
a roll of drums and halted at a sporty-look-
ing horseshoe table while the Anthem was
played. In the v.-r. group were the Mayoral
Luxtons, Mrs. Luxton in black lace; the
Mitchell lady, president of the ball com-
mittee, whose black lace draperies were scat-
tered with designs in rose and pink crystal;
Mrs. J. S. Fraser, president of the C.W.A.,
ir. deep cream georgette ; her niece, Marjorie
Forbes, hon. sec. of the hop, in white satin;
and Elsa Grice, in draperies of magenta tone.
The Defence forces were represented by
Rear-Admiral arid Mrs. Munro Kerr, she in
tucks and lace of lettuce-green; General and
Mrs. Coxen; and Air-Commodore and Mrs.
Williams.
Seven debs, made curtsey to the Vice-
regals. Five were in white, one in sunset-
pink and another had a dash of pink
beneath frills of creamy lace. Among
the buds were Verna Groves and Doro-
thy Richards, of Shepparton, and Ruby
Campbell, from Clyde. Heads of branches
of the C.W.A. included Mrs. Douglas Bruce,
Cranbourne; Mrs. Amos, Manangatang, in
powder-blue; and Mrs. Cowan, Benalia.
Other country folk present were the Archibald
Curries, of Shepparton ; the Tom Guthries, of
Willaura; and Mrs. Kerr Paterson, of Koo-
wee-rup. The Eton crop of Mrs. Evan
Pearse topped a lovely frock of black chiffon
with a sprinkling of rhinestones, and Mrs. 11.
Rosenthal trailed gold and cream brocade.
Mrs. James Purves, who with Mrs. Warren
Clark looked after the comfort of the bridge-
players, was one of many who chose black
lace. Mrs. Lucius Conolly favored white
chiffon; Mrs. Byram Gowan, jun., wore
bottle-green fisher-net with a shoulder spray
of white roses, and Lynette Dickenson
sported the vernal hue in a reseda shade.
Peggy Speeding, one of the officials of the
hop, was in flowered chiffon. Her sister
Helen’s cobwebby frock was patterned in
brown and white. Kitty Currie had flounces
of royal blue tulle flowing from a long bodice
of gold and blue brocade. Jean Weston wore
a full-skirted frock of taffeta scattered with
yellow roses and foliage. A double basque
finished the tight bodice. Some of the girls
adopted the new halo-like head-dress. Jean
Carr, whose attire was tulip-yellow, had a
semi-circle of gold and pale amber beads
arranged across her shingle. Bead and
crystal necklaces were in favor.
The president, Brigadier-General C. H.
Foott, and members of the United Service
Institute made the palm groves of St. Kilda
Plaza the field of operations for their ball
on Friday night. The Governor and Lady
Somers, also Admiral Kayser and officers of
the visiting Netherlands squadron, were
guests. Her Ex. wore a simple frock of
chalk-white crepe de Chine that dipped in
graceful mode. The crimson mess jackets /
of the army and the uniforms of other
branches of the Defence forces added color to
the scene, and feminine attire ran the whole
gamut of shades. Gathered in the vice-regal
loge were Rear-Admiral and Mrs. Munro
Kerr, Lud Mayor Luxton and his wife, she in
Lido blue georgette; Major-General “Pom-
pey” Elliott and Mrs. Elliott, the last-named
charming in black lace. The Consul for the
Netherlands, Colonel F. E. Wright, brought
his wife, in filmy lace of burgundy hue.
Madame Ivroef was also in the circle; her
black lace gown was fashioned with long
sleeves. Captain R. T. A. McDonald’s wife
was smartly attired in black.
Commander and Mrs. Langford, she in
oyster-grey, brought their daughter Mollie,
whose white frock was overlaid with sparkles.
General Brand was accompanied by his
daughter in flowered apricot-hued taffeta.
Captain B. J. Andrew, who secretaried the
ball, escorted his wife, who wore powder-
blue. Squadron-Leader Eric Harrison’s wife
sported lapis-lazuli blue. The Rodney
Segraves were there, she with pink tiger
lilies on the shoulder of her white satin robe.
Among the dancers were Colonel and Mrs.
Martyn and Colonel and Mrs. J. H. P. Eller.
Some striking gowns were worn by girls,
notably Nancy Syme’s dark green fislier-net
and Patricia Clarke’s black tulle. Patricia
Gaffney’s cornflower draperies were scattered
with rhinestones, the hem being of silver
tissue; _ and Nancy Cook’s white chiffon
melted into a termination of tulle. The most
effective of the gowns of figured material
was that worn by Mrs. Van den Bogaert—
black chiffon, patterned in grey and cherry,
and finished with a frill of black tulle.
On Friday night, at Ormond Hall. Toe H.
members indulged in jazz as a means of add-
ing to their charity funds. Lord Somers,
Vie. president, looked in with Lady Somers
before going to the U.S.I. gathering. About
300 dancers took the floor, a roll-up that
greatly pleased the hon. sec., F. C. C. de
Silva.
The handicraft workers of the Country
Women’s Association displayed a splendid
collection of their wares at the two-days’
show at Kelvin Hall opened by Lady Somers
on Friday. Elsa Grice is head of the com-
mittee, with Mrs. A. S. Morton and Miss A.
Russell as secretaries, and Sirs. G. H.
Edwards as treasurer. In the hooked rag
and wool rugs section there were about 70
entries, this being quite the most popular
of the many competitions. It was Mrs.
Henrietta Walker who recently revived the
idea of making hearthrugs and doormats
from pieces of wool left over from dressmak-
ing and knitting, and it is now a craze.
The winning floor-covering had a groundwork
of fawn and brown, traced with n peacock
feather pattern. Mrs. Dobbin, of Corowa, the
maker, was asked to give a demonstration of
her craft. There was a fine array of soft
toys, beautifully made, the first prize going
to a very life-like teddy-bear. There were
also platypuses. The Flinders branch sent
some attractive-looking leather goods, and
Macedon branch made a bid for laurels with
a community linen quilt worked in cross
stitch in green. The cookery division included
a three-tiered wedding-cake with a bride doll
crowning it. In a loan collection of needle-
work of former days some designs in cross
stitch by Florence Nightingale excited great
interest.
Moonee Valley’s long spell of good luck
with the weather was broken on Saturday
when blue skies turned to black clouds which
produced showers at intervals and made the
meeting a damp and cheerless sort of affair.
Mr. McShortodds had a day out, most of the
favorites being amongst the also-rans. Even
the great Amounis failed to get a place.
The lawns and paddocks surrounding the
course bloomed with all manner of spring
greenery, and the red roses had begun to
border the fence in front of the stands. After
luncheon the Dutch Admiral and some
officers, who had lunched at Stoning
ton, arrived with the Governor, and were
joined by Lt.-Colonel and Mrs. Wright.
Feminine dressing was mostly of the wintry
order. The Netherland officers showed us
something new in masculine fashions —coats
of navy or black embroidered with heavy
black braid and having cowl-like pointed
capes finished with tassels. Among the
patrons were the Premier and Mrs. Hogan,
Russell Clarke and his daughter Marjorie,
General Chauvel and his lady, she in nigger
brown with velour hat of wallflower shade ;
Mrs. Alston Wallace, Mrs. Archie Currie,
the Lauchlan Mackinnons, the Ben Lern-
prieres, the Percy Blaekbourns and Mrs.
Warrington Rogers. June Baillieu sported a
fawn ensemble and matching felt hat. Nancy
Greene was among the Western District
visitors.
Lynette Dickenson, hon. sec. of the Metro-
politan branch of the younger set auxiliary
of the Coun-
try Women’s
Assoc iation,
looks out of
this window.
She shared
with Mrs. By-
ram Gowan,
jun., the duties
of ticket sec.
for the asso-
ciation’s hop
last week, and
was one of
the girls who
took part in
the recent
three nights’
charity show
at the Comedy
Theatre. She
danced grace-
fully, and
there was
promise in the
way she filled her role in the sketch “Calais
to Dover.” The picture comes from the
Dickinson-Monteith studio.
The R.A.S. Show had just put up its
shutters when the Arts and Crafts Society’s
exhibition w r as launched by Lady Somers
on Saturday afternoon in the upper hall of
the To.wn Hall. In the hand-weaving sec-
tions many attractive fabrics are .shown, and
one exhibitor has discovered a new vegetable
dye, extracted from a native lichen. Raffia
work is well represented, and there is a
brave show of wrought-iron and metal
articles. Needlework of the finest is on
view, including some beautiful embroidery
and tapestry. Junior students of technical
schools and colleges have contributed some
promising work. The Presbyterian Ladies'
College has furnished a room set for a child-
ren’s party with a wealth of nice things to
eat,. inclusive of a three-storeyed cake. The
Training College Free Kindergarten shows
a collection of toys and wall sketches.
Michael O’Connell’s pottery has again been
given a garden setting, and the exhibition
is rounded off with some unique hand-printed
silken fabrics.
Dangling baskets of daffodils and boronia,
associated with a color scheme of gold, bronze
and blue, decked St. Kilda Town Hall for a
ball engineered by Caulfield’s younger set, to
relieve distress occasioned through unemploy-
ment. The St. Kilda Council gave the use of
the hall, and other sympathetic people sent
donations. Dorothy Packer, president of
the organising committee, flitted round in
primrose-tinted georgette, and Dulcie Roberts,
hon. sec., wore satin of the new peridot
shade of pink. Mayor and Mayoress Ritchie,
of Caulfield, and Mayor and Mayoress Jacka,
of St. Kilda, were among the dancers, Mrs.
Jacka in black lace combined with chiffon.
This portrait, by Ruskin, is an up-to-the-
minute glimpse of Amy Castles, who will be
the first Australian prima-donna to invade
the talkies. With her sister Eileen she
sails for Los
Angeles on the
11th of next
month. Both
singers began
their vocal
training in
Bendigo and
continued it in
Melbourne
under Allen
Bindley. In
Paris Amy
studied under
the great Mar-
chesi for a
while and then
switched to the
eminent M.
Bouhy, which
many of her
friends though!
unwise. How
ever, she knew
what she was
about, and her training was so sound that
she was a singer at the Court Theatre of
Vienna just before the Great War, a dis-
tinction much coveted by operatic vocalists.
Amy made her Australian debut in opera
in “Madame Butterfly” at H'is Majesty’s,
Sydney. It was in the Puccini opera that
she made a conquest of a critical Austrian
audience when she made her first appear-
ance in the Imperial Opera House of Vienna.
Overseas visitors to Melbourne at present
are Jennie Lynn and Miss Colbatch Clark,
of Brighton, Sussex, who are on a round-
the-world tour. The pair, who became
friends while on nursing service in the
Great War, have done a great deal of travel-
ling together. After a two years’ tour of
Italy they decided On their present expedi-
tion. Starting from the south of France,
where they visited a relative, they journeyed
to East Africa and went overland via Vic-
toria Falls and Rhodesia to Capetown. Going
through the wild-beast sanctuary they saw
lions, giraffes, hippopotami, zebras and
such. The jungle has now got so used to
motor-cars that the beasties regard them
with dignified indifference. In this reserve
the travellers camped for a night in a ron-
davel (native hut) and shivered when they
heard the roars and growls of the jungle
animals, The travellers number the citrus
groves of Eastern Transvaal, the picturesque
port of Mombassa and the lordly Draken-
burg mountains, 60 miles from Ladysmith,
among their most cherished recollections of
Africa. Miss Lynn is a water-colorist, and
has made sketches of many of the places
she has visited.
More than 700 scholars, girls and boys, took
part in a concert at the Town Hall on
Friday night under the auspices of the Cath-
olic Women’s Social Guild, the object being
to assist in wiping out the debt on St.
Anne’s Hall. With vocal and instrumental
numbers were mingled dancing and euryhth-
mics and other forms of physical culture.
One of the most popular offerings was a
horse-vaulting display by pupils of the De
La Salle Brothers. Twenty-one girls from
the Brigidine Convent gave a drill deport-
ment exhibition that was much applauded.
All the same height, they swung on to the
platform in striking gold and black frocks
with satin slippers. Their skirts came just
below the knee. Verses with a Celtic flavor
were spoken by the choir of the C.L.C.,
under Eileen O’Keefe’s direction. Arch-
bishop Mannix, Archbishop Redwood, of
Maoriland, and the Premier and Mrs. Hogan
were in the audience.
The Dutch grand-opera season opened at
10 a.m. on Friday, when the cruiser Java
and the destroyers Evertsen and De Ruyter
swung alongside Prince’s Pier at Port Mel-
bourne. The proceedings began with official
calls by the Assistant District Naval Officer
and the District Naval Officer. These
were succeeded by the District Base Com-
mandant, a representative of the Air Force
and another of the Navy. Thus goaded into
retaliation, Rear-Admiral Kayser walked off
his flagship, but was detected by a battery
concealed on the seafront which smartly
opened fire on him. The Rear-Admiral then
carefully examined a guard of honor drawn
up on the wharf, and finding nothing wrong
with it proceeded to Government House,
where he conscientiously perused another
guard of honor. He then called in the stated,
order on the Minister for Defence, the Sec-
retary of the Defence Department, the First
Nava! Member, the Second Naval Member,
the Chief of the General Staff, the Adjutant-
General, the Quartermaster-General, the
Chief of the Air Staff, the Third Naval Mem-
ber, the Third Member of the Air Board, and
the Premier. Having stirred up this hornets’
nest, the gallant seadog returned to his flag-
ship. At 3 p.m. the tide began to set strongly
in the reverse direction, and in the following
order: The Acting Governor-General, the
First Naval Member, the Second Naval Mem-
ber, the Chief of the General Staff, the
Adjutant-General, the Quartermaster-Gen-
eral, the Chief of the Air Staff and the Third
Member of the Air Board. By this time,
having played “God Save” twice for each
visitor, once coming and once going, the
Javanese band got jumpy, and when the
press photographers came suddenly round
a corner was only prevented with difficulty
from giving them a dose of the National
Anthem. It was a perfect welter of cere-
mony. As one grinning native seaman
remarked, with his head stuck through a
porthole, “Baik seperti wayang, Tuan!’’
which means literally, “As good as a play."
Bridesmaids in shimmering satin of nas-
turtium hue, with matching straw hats, fol-
lowed to the altar Mavis, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. F. Montgomery, of Elsternwick,
when she exchanged promises with Clive St.
John Chisholm. Old lace and tulle flowed
over the bride’s gowm of ivory satin.
Despite cold weather there was a good
muster at Kelvin Hall for the last but one
of this season’s series of poetry recitals.
The stage was hung with vivid green cur-
tains, Avith black furniture for the first half
of the programme, in which Alice Smith and
Irene Webb declaimed excerpts from the
Chester miracle plays and the works of Mil-
ton, Morris. Shakspeare, Gordon Bottomley
and Clifford Bax. Miss Webb’s deep blue
gowm was topped with a bridge coat in pale
green and gold brocade, and her co-artist
wore black lace with a coatee of gold
sequins. Allie Robson produced Barrie’s
one-act comedy “Seven Women,” in which
she impersonated the charming widow.
Gorgeous uniforms and early-Victorian
gowns filled the tiny stage of the Proscenium
Club on Saturday evening, wffien Lucy Ahon’s
Student Theatre Society was seen in Ber-
nard Shaw’s “Arms and the Man.” The
gorgeous cream-satin nightie worn by Marion
Steel as Raina Petkoff elicited many mur-
murs of envy, and so did her Watteau shep-
herdess millinery, that topped a gold and
green brocade and lace gown. Gladys Kenn,
as Luka, the servant, wore the Russian
peasant dress, and with Clarence Last as
Captain Bluntsehli, carried off the laurels
of a creditable performance.
The Mornington-Frankston auxiliary of the
Children’s Hospital resorted to bridge the
other day to get the wherewithal to endow a
bed in the orthopaedic hospital for young folks
at Frankston. The party, organised by Ger-
trude Rennie, wms held in the Myer tearoom,
and a couple of hundred players participated.
Sales of flowers and home-made cakes
swelled the proceeds. The president, Mrs.
Norman Brookes, in a mole-colored three-
piece suit of cape mode, w r as one of the
salesladies, associated Avith her being Mrs.
Wallace Mitchell, Mrs. F. G. Cresswell and
others, including a bevy of the younger set.
During the tea interval Dawn Harding and
Ada Russell sang.
At the Country Women’s Association show
a birthday cake with three green candles
was placed on the tea-table where Lady
Somers was regaled with the cheering brew.
The tapers symbolised the third anniver-
sary of the association’s formation.
The British Music Society met at Grong
Grong on Wednesday evening by courtesy of
the Tom Smiths. Pianist Biddy Allen and
violinists Gertrude Healy and Coral Trenerry
played compositions by Arne and Boyce, and
the two fiddles performed the Bach Concerto
in D minor. Colin Macßae contributed
song cycles by Purcell and Herbert Brewer.
Nicholas Lockyer’s lady was commandeered
by members of the Church Missionary
Society to launch their very successful two
days’ fair at St. Paul’s Chapter House last
week.
Toe H. Club members called bridge to
their aid last week to supplement their funds
for succoring the needy. There was a good
muster of players. Lord Somers is a mem-
ber of the club, and takes an active part in
its benevolent activities, distributing gifts of
food or clothes at various homes.


After your shampoo
g
a touch of Rowland's
Macassar Oil will re-
place the natural oil
which the shampoo re-
moved. The oil is very
necessary, for it pre-
vents thin, falling hair
and gives a perfect
healthy gloss. Comb
the oil well into the
hair.
From all Chem-
ists, Stores and
Hairdressers.
Red for dark
hair; golden for
fair or grey hair.
Rmv
land’s
Macassar ©II
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.1.,
ENGLAND.
INVESTIGATE-INVEST.
There may be a. few who get rich quickly ,and easily, but they are a mere
handful compared with the vast army that gets poor quickly in the vain
effort to emulate them. The small investor is the one most tempted to dabble
in apparently “get-rich-quick” investment offers, and he is the one hardest
hit when they do not “come off,” as indeed they rarely do.
The sagacious citizen will ’ turn his money over to a Bank, which is
wisely restricted in the channels wherein it may invest, to do the investing
for him.
Investigate first, and you will find that the Savings Account provides
the safest and most convenient form of investment, and pays a reasonable
interest return, which in the long run is the safest and best kind.
There is a Post Office Agency in every town.
Commonweal Savinas JM of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
11l
'V:
1*
m piii’ii
il l'! ,'i! 1!
II mt
I* *
I# si
sS®.y
■ : ii.
in
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotet
Tariff. Day. Week.
Single Room and Meals .. .. 25/- 168/-
Double Room and Meals .. .. 45/- 300/-
Single Room and Breakfast .. 15/- 100/-'
Double Room and Breakfast .. 27/6 182/6
Telephone: F 4141.
THIRTY PIECES OF SILVER
By Montague Grover
I LLU ST RATED BY PERCY LINDSAY
Synopsis: In the coastal town of
Illawarra Jimmy Packing ton, an
orphan, is brought up by Mary West,
who leads him into the habit of
using his head to think with, but is too
poor to enable him to take advantage of
the free education offering, and Jimmy
begins shovelling at C. J. Grey and
Co. s cdkeworks. He attracts the
interest of Basil Wellington, an
Oxford man who is running the local
Guardian,” and who coaches him for
night school. At, work one day he
sees Alma, Grey and idealises her as
the unattainable. He meets her some,
time later, but the fact that he is
shovelling coke prevents her father
from encouraging him. Jimmy sub-
sequently meets May Harland, a
bright, energetic girl, who has con-
verted Mrs. Blessington’s shop in Illa-
warra into a paying business, and
whom Mrs. West before her death,
had hoped he would marry. They
become intimate, but May declines to
marry him, telling him that she has
had other lovers and urging him
to go after his ideal girl. Helped
by Wellington, Jimmy has decided
upon journalism, as his life work, and,
the work he does on a local mining
disaster eventually wins him a posi-
tion on a city paper, the “Times.”
May wins recognition as a singer, and
goes abroad, and an American paper
announces her engagement to a Bal-
kan prince. On the “Times” Jimmy
is carried above the average reporter's
level by his enthusiasms, which include
a campaign against sly-grog selling.
On top of this comes a news item from
Wellington to the “Times” — Mrs.
Blessington has been arrested as a sly-
grogseller. It shakes Jimmy's ideal-
ism, and that, is further shaken when
a strike in the Illawarra mines, which
he investigates for the “Times,” proves
in retrospect to have been a futility.
CHAPTER XXIV.
DESPITE the strenuous nature of his
work Jimmy often found time to think
of May. They continued to exchange
letters, hers still so full of her glorious
youthful enthusiasm that Jimmy could hear
her speaking— 150 to the minute, and paus-
ing only to punctuate with little gurgles
of laughter.
Of Alma, too, he thought occasionally.
She had disappeared from the face of the
earth. When he came to live in Sydney
he had a sort of hope that they might meet
again. After all, it was her influence which
had been largely responsible for his working
his way to where he was. But he had never
run across her, and now nobody knew the
whereabouts of any of the family.
Less than six months after Jimmy left
Illawarra the competition, long threatening
in the coke industry, had fallen like an
avalanche on C. J. Grey. A company with
a capital of half a million had been formed
to make coke by a new process, eliminat-
ing much of the waste inseparable from the
old system. It, was claimed that, instead
of the gas being allowed to blaze away—a
long peristyle of pillars of flame over twenty
miles of the South Coast—it could be col-
lected and used for light and power.
The majority of the cokeworks people
accepted the offer of the new concern—the
Commonwealth Coke Corporation, com-
monly known as the Three C’s. Grey was
one of those who stood out to fight.
The new device proved successful and
Grey went down. He continued to fight
so long that when the end came he found
himself bankrupt. The blow was doubled
by the death of Mrs. Grey at the same time.
Old Grey could not face the people he
had known in his days of prosperity. Less
could he face those who had lost their
money by his bad judgment. He and his
daughters left Sydney. Nobody except a
few intimates knew where they had gone
and those intimates kept their own counsel.
Their home passed into other hands and
the saplings started to sprout around the
coke-ovens on the Illawarra mountain-side.
Jimmy remembered what “old C.J.” had
once said, in his hearing, to the secretary of
one of the unions:
“I’m not' one who thinks the men have
no rights because they happen to work
for another man, Williamson; but you chaps
forget that the whole world’s a fight. What-
ever we may feel as private individuals,
in business life the battle’s to the strong
and the race to the swift. I’m sorry for
the man who finds himself out through age
or incompetency, but there’s no fairness in
keeping him on and denying a competent
man the job. Life’s a battle, Williamson,
and it’s that battle which has made man
what he is. If it hadn’t been for continual
adversity and hardship and the necessity to
fight for all we have, we’d still be living in
trees and hanging by our tails.”
Poor old C.J.’s theories had swung back
to deal him a cruel blow.
Jimmy had for some time found himself
drifting into the agnostic condition which
had surprised him on his first encounter
with newspaper men.
Various women came into his life. Some
mere night-long loves; some of greater
duration, but no more important; a few,
who exerted slight influence on his character.
There was Vera the typist, shrewd, clear-
headed, a woman of the world, beneath her
fluffy girl’s exterior, ready to dare anything,
but as solicitous regarding her reputation
and as punctilious regarding the conventions
as a very prude. She would not go to a
theatre with him unchaperoned. With a veil
on she would motor with him wheresoever
he listed.
Vera’s ideal was the strong man of affairs,
the captain of industry you read about in
the business novels. Failing to spur her
first lover—the clerk beside whom she sat
at her work—to such heights, she turned to
Jimmy. But with him she failed just as
lamentably. All the same, she succeeded
in turning Jimmy’s brain a little more to
the orderly side of finance. Vera was really
the mainstay of the place where she worked.
She knew more of the business than any
of the department heads. When the pro-
prietor married her later, it was said that
he did so because had anybodj/ else mar-
ried Vera the whole fabric would have fallen
to pieces.
There was Olga, handsome and patrician
in her black dress as she received the wives
of the wealthy in the showrooms of Baxters,
Ltd., selling them twice as much as they
had expected to buy and five times as much
as their husbands deemed sufficient. Olga
was older than Jimmy; she was thirty last
birthday. She carried her patrician manner
out of the slipwroom even into the bower
of love. But it was only manner. She was
really fond of Jimmy.
He had kept to Mary West’s advice and
ventured among neither the good nor the
bad. He always erred on the side of safety.
He had suffered too keenly regarding May
to risk another experience of the sort.
Many of those who really belonged to the
middle-class he placed in the first. The
opinion of the Illawarra flapper who years
ago had characterised him as too slow was
confirmed by several city damsels whose
acouaintance he had made.
Jimmy was still an idealist as far as
women were concerned. His agnosticism
had no application to them. He regarded it
as a blasphemy of Nature that a woman
should ever be ugly or ill-made or un-
healthy. Every woman should be possessed
of all the virtues—or nearly all of them;
there must be a few exceptions to make
life worth living. But there should be no
bad women, none treacherous or vain or
stupid or mercenary.
It was more instinct than reason which
had kept Jimmy free from the clutches of
the vampire. He would have made the
easiest, of marks for the human edition of
the movie lady. No story of stupendous
circumstances would have been too far-
fetched for Jimmy had it been whispered
into his ear with the accompaniment of
languishing eyes and a tear or two. But
luck stood in his way.
He shivered whenever he thought of his
narrow escape from Hilda Mitford. Hilda
was the proprietor of the Artery—a room
in a block of offices wherein you could buy
a copy of Omar Khayyam bound in limp
suede and decorated with Hilda’s designs,
or a candlestick so adorned with carved
gum-leaves that there was nowhere to put
the candle. Hilda had chosen the name for
her place of business, because she considered
that it embodied the idea of an art centre
with the idea of “a conduit through which
the rich blood of beauty might circulate
through the community.”
Jimmy met Hilda at one of the exhibi-
tions of the Society of Ai’tists whither Stan
had decoj'ed him. Hilda was a girl of middle
height, 22 years old, and pretty in a weird
way. She was destitute of color, but her
pallor was not unhealthy. Her figure was
lithe and sinuous. It was generally con-
cealed by a dress of some clinging stuff of
bottle-green or dirty yellow, but it was easy
to believe that Hilda had posed before
the looking-glass for the attenuated but
graceful nudes which adorned her work.
Her hair was jet black and she wore it
straight back from her forehead like Cleo
de Merode. Hilda aimed at presenting to
the public a picture as like a poster as it
was possible for a real woman to be, and she
succeeded fairly well.
In her own particular line she was re-
markably capable and was doing well at
the Artery.
“I have read your poems in ‘The Ishmael-
ite,’ Mr. Packington,” she began. “I adore
them; they give one a newer and a broader
outlook on life.”
Jimmy was not accustomed to tributes of
this sort. He looked hard at her; but she
was serious.
“It is rarely that one finds in literature
anything that reaches right to the depths of
one’s soul, that brings one into touch with
the spirit itself.”
“I don’t suppose so,” replied Jimmy. He
tried to place any of his verses which would
do that sort of thing.
He turned the conversation to the pic-
tures. They did the round of the exhibi-
tion. He was frankly laudatory over her
own leather work and stencil and carving
before he knew the name of the exhibitor.
She made him promise to drop in at her'
studio any time he was passing.
“I know you writers have little time and
that you are men of temperament”—Jimmy
smiled to himself—“but just look in when
you have a minute to spare. It is so seldom
that one meets one whose soul rings in
unison with one’s own.”
Jimmy wandered up to the Artery several
times. He found her a companionable little
girl in spite of her transcendental vaporings.
It was not all affectation. She had brought
herself to believe it.
He was still scarcely more than an
acquaintance when she told him of the
grand passions which had come into her
life and taught her all she knew of Life and
Art and Truth. She led him to believe that
but for a certain trip to the mountains she
could not have turned out nearly such good
bindings of Omar. They had gone the full
twenty rounds limit, those grand passions.
One Sunday Jimmy took her to Manly,
surfing. They lunched on the Corso, spent
the afternoon fishing on Manly cove, and,
catching nothing, returned to town to have
tea at the Artery.
For a couple of hours they talked and
smoked cigarettes. At ten Jimmy rose
to go. Hilda was reclining on a big padded
divan, which stood in the centre of the room.
“Well, good-bye, Hilda,” he said. They
had reached the stage when they called
each other by their first names. She took
both his hands in hers and raised lips to be
kissed. Jimmy bent to kiss her, still intend-
ing to take his departure. She flung her-
self about him like a warm young snake.
“My love!” she cried. “My only love!
My soul has waited for you through the
centuries. You are mine, mine for ever!”
It was after midnight when Jimmy got
home. Next, day he found awaiting him at
the office a letter in a hand strange to him.
He wondered who had written until he saw
the opening “My Lancelot”; then he knew.
“Now,” Hilda wrote, “I am yours, body
and soul. We have waited long to meet.
Now that we have met, never shall we part.
It was for us that the sun learned to shine,
the stars to swing in the sky. For us the
birds sing; the flowers raise their beauties
only to hail our love. You are mine, mine
for ever. To-day I know what previously
I had thought to be love was only regard.
Love came into the world with my Lance-
lot; when he dies, love will go out of it.
Until he dies, he is mine. I care nothing
for the world’s opinion; I despise the con-
ventions. I abhor them. The shackles of
a man-made marriage are too sordid, too
contemptible, to be thought of in relation
to such a love as ours. But until my Lance-
lot dies I am his; while my Lancelot lives
I am his. While memory of him endures
I am his; for the eternity that speeds
through time and space I am his and he is
mine.”
It was signed, “Your soul mate, Guinevere.”
Jimmy’s repentance took a different form
this time. He wondered how he could
have been such a fool as to have had any-
thing to do with a girl like Hilda. She was
clever enough and a good-hearted little sort,
but there was a vast difference between
spending a day with her and spending a
lifetime with her.
Still, the girl loved him. That fact was
outstanding—loved him deeply and passion-
ately. There were not many capable of
such a love as hers. To tell her the brutal
truth—that the whole affair had been an
interlude with him and he had regarded
it similarly as a fifty-fifty affair on her part
—would be too inhuman. He would have
to stick to her now. The anti-marriage atti-
tude was part and parcel of the doctrines
she put in her mental showcase. She would
change her mind. It was rotten luck, though
she would doubtless make a good wife.
Why on earth hadn’t May been willing to
marry him?
He worried over it all day and slept little
that night. Then he grew philosophical.
He decided to make the best of a bad bar-
gain. He spent with Hilda as much time as
he deemed a fair thing and dutifully kissed
her good-bye on the station when she went
to Brisbane three weeks later.
She had been away a week when he
received her second letter. The first had
told how she had cried her eyes out and
had longed to light the charcoal in her room
to end the anguish of absence from her
Lancelot. The second began “My poor dear
boy,” and went on to ask him to forgive
the most cruel and callous woman who had
ever wrecked a man’s life.
Hilda came to her point later. She knew
it would break his heart, but she had to
confess the awful truth. Since arrival in
Brisbane she had met her real affinity, her
genuine twin soul. Jimmy, it seems, had
looked like a twin soul, but all the time he
wasn’t really one. The man she met in
Brisbane was the goods.
“Whew!” whistled Jimmy. “The gods are
kind sometimes. That was a narrow squeak.”
He wrote a heart-broken letter to Hilda—
not too heart-broken lest she might repent;
but just heartbroken enough—and wished
her every joy with the new twin soul. Appa-
rently, he, too, proved fraudulent, for when
Hilda came back she made no reference to
him. She remained good friends with
Jimmy, but he never ventured near the
Artery after business hours again. “Once
is enough,” he said to himself.
But Hilda was nothing daunted in her
quest. She pursued it with such effect that
a year later she married one of the younger
Baxters, of Baxters, Ltd., a man with a
heap of money. Jimmy sent her an etching
for a wedding present.
CHAPTER XXV.
Four years after she had left Australia,
May returned for a concert tour.
The musical community had sought an
opera season, but the cost was prohibitive.
To bring an adequate company with two
sets of principals, including another prima
donna of somewhere the same standing as


v
SB
SHARP
Owing to special
process in manu-
facture of the lead,
the “ Mephisto ’’
Copying Pencil
lasts much longer,
yet writes easily
and smoothly with-
out heavy pressure.
Medium, Hard and
Extra Hard Degrees.
THE POPULAR
COPYING PENCILS
Also in 8 colours for checki g, etc.
From all Stationers, etc.
L. A C. HAUDTMDTH. of “KOH-I-NOOR” Pencil fame,
London Office— Kinpawny. W.C.2
Australian Representative—
JOHN MACDOUCSALIi. P O Box 165.
SYDNEY.
THINK of &/>e LAKES
NOW . . . .
.... Think of the boating, the fishing, the surfing....
of the mirrored reflections in the placid blue waters of
tbe lakes... .of the golden sunshine and the. fragrance of
the green bush....of the tinkling music of the bellbirds
... .of the muffled roar of the Southern Ocean along the
white curving sweep of the Ninety-mile Beach.
Think....and then ACT. Rian your next holiday
at the GiRPSLAND LAKES, the most picturesque
chain of lakes in Australia.
A fast and comfortable train service from Melbourne connects at
tale or Bairnsdale with steamer or car services to the Lakes.
And the accommodation is excellent.
Booking and all information at the
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
MART IN' PLACE, SYDNEY; OR QUEEN'S WALK, MELBOURNE.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
woman's paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Madame Illara, was a proposition which no
manager would entertain. A concert com-
pany was within the range of practical
show-business.
Jimmy was bverjoyed to meet May again.
He saw her for a few minutes the day she
landed, a trifle more robust than previously,
but with the same smile, the same dimples,
the same air of eternal girlishness and the
same irrepressible, irresponsible gaiety. He
had no fears that success had turned her
head. Her late letters had satisfied him
on that point.
On the other hand, he feared the inten-
sity of her friendship, and, anticipating that
she might kiss him on sight, kept in the
background until she was in her room at
the Australia with only a dozen present.
She travelled with a woman secretary and a
maid. He ’phoned from below.
The secretary had heard of Jimmy. She
whispered the name to Madama Illara, now
radiant in a ninon neglige of eau-de-nil.
“Tell him not to take the lift, to come up
the stairs; say we’re on the first floor,” she
ordered, and, leaving managers, welcomers
and musical mightinesses to themselves, she
swept out into the corridor, down the steps
two at a time and jumped into Jimmy’s arms.
“Oh, Jimmy!” she cried. “Kiss me again,
Jimmy. It’s fine to get back.”
They exchanged half a dozen sentences.
Then she led him back to the room, intro-
duced him and continued the task of receiv-
ing and being received.
“I know you want to get away now,
Jimmy,” she whispered to him, pressing his
arm. “I’ll let you know when I can see you
really.”
She gave him some more dimples, held
out her hand like a queen —that was the
only difference Jimmy noticed—and bade
him “Au revoir.”
But May was a difficult person to meet.
She was busy—up to her eyes in work of
some sort all day—and she had insisted,
before opening the season, on leaving for
Bendigo to see her mother and brothers,
whom she had long ago set up in a com-
fortable house of their own.
Her Bendigo trip had been prolonged, and
when she came back to Sydney she brought
Mrs. Harland and the boys—both now-
strapping young fellows—to stay at the Aus-
tralia with her.
Jimmy was charmed with Mrs. Harland,
and both the youths were likeable; they
possessed May’s spontaneous gaiety and
humor. One was a medical student; the
other in an architect’s office.
The tour was a tremendous success. It
was half through and Jimmy had not had
an opportunity of five minutes’ conversa-
tion with May alone. He had meals with
her frequently, but Mrs. Harland and the
brothers were always present. May didn’t
seem to mind them in the least. She would
freely kiss Jimmy good-bye before Mrs.
Harland, who never questioned her action.
She seemed to be ready to accept anything
May did as right. May had a way of
making everything she did right. She could
have persuaded a council of Puritans to
pass a resolution justifying all that she
had done.
“Jimmy,” she whispered one night as they
parted, “when are you due for holidays?”
“Due now,” he replied. “Can get them
any time.”
“Ca.n you put them off for tw-o months?
The tour’ll be over then.” He nodded.
“How much do they give you?”
“Three weeks.”
“Do you know Melbourne?”
“I’ve been there two or three times. Once
to the Cup. Rotten weather always.”
“You’ve never been in summer. Now,
get ready to come over to Melbourne in
two months’ time. We’re going to have a
holiday together, Jimmy. You’re too well
known in Sydney. I’m pretty well known
in both places. 5ti11.... Is that a bargain?”
“Of course, May,” he said, “if you fixed
it for Labrador, you’d find me under the
same old lamp waiting for you.”
They both laughed. Their thoughts went
back to the lamp in Illawarra under which
they had kept their appointments six years
ago.
“I’ve told them I’m going away for a
complete rest. That’s true, too, Jimmy,”
she smiled.
“Do you know what I’ve done? I’ve
rented the dinkiest little place—a cottage
on the bay between Mornington and Rose-
bud, three miles from anywhere. Odette
and I’ve got in a decent piano and a couple
of hundredweight of the worst music on
earth. That’s for you. If they knew what
I’ll be playing and singing, I’d be declared
bogus by all the musicians of the world.
I’ve stocked the place with tinned stuff,
for I’ve forgotten my cooking and Odette
doesn’t know how to boil an egg, although
she’s a Breton. There’s a vegetable John
in the next paddock and a dairy close by.
You can live at the hotel two miles away
and ride over every day on your bicycle and
help us wash up after meals. We’ll live the
simple life. There’s bathing—no surf, unfor-
tunately; they don’t stock it over there—
and a boat for sailing and fishing and a
couple of bikes. The roads aren’t anything
to write home about, but the country’s flat.”
The rest of the tour proved a tremendous
success, and Madame Illara was announced
to be resting.
When Jimmy took his holidays he found
the place all that May had described.
It was an ideal spot for a lazy holiday.
The cottage was overgrown with climbing
roses, there was a big verandah back and
front, and, if the furniture was a trifle
old and old-fashioned, everything was as
clean as in his old home in Illawarra.
The main road ran in front of the front
garden, overgrown with creepers but still
brilliant with flowers, and through the
beautiful green and purple of the tea-trees
opposite stretched the sea—not broken like
that around the ocean coasts he had been
accustomed to, but smooth as glass and
varying in its moods from turquoise in the
misty hours of early morn to satin of royal
blue in the noonday sun.
He had lunched at the hotel at Morn-
ington—it was nearly two o’clock when the
train arrived; then, after putting away his
baggage, he mounted the bicycle which May
had left for him, and pedalled, according
to instructions, over the two miles of coast-
wise road.
May was waiting for him at the front'
gate. She was wearing a skirt and blouse,
and, to the horror of Odette, had insisted
on having her hair down her back, tied
with a single ribbon at the nape of her neck.
“Have you brought the eggs?” she sallied.
“You are dense,” she added, noting his look
of mystification. “Don’t you remember the
first time we met?”
She led him inside, where Odette exam-
ined him critically and apparently pro-
nounced him satisfactory. She was a
daughter of France, democratic to her
finger-tips. Like Gilbert’s gondolier, she
was the equal of her employers in all things,
save in her calling, and in that at once their
master and their servant.
Unlike an English maid in a similar posi-
tion, Odette felt no humiliation in serving
one who had belonged, like herself, to the
peasant class; May had often told her of
the Illawarra days. On the contrary, she
felt rather better satisfied, though she was
always respectful, always the lady’s maid.
That was part of the calling in which she
felt some pride—pride which had now sus-
tained a’severe shock by seeing her mistress,
whose appearance she regai’ded as a painter
regards his canvas, stepping out to receive
a gentleman for whom she evidently had a
high regard, dressed in a manner tres bete.
They sat out on the verandah watching
the sea for the first confidential talk they
had had for four years.
~T , . , , ■ ,i, mo
“I’m going to make you so sick me
Jimmy ” May opened, that by the end of
the holiday you 11 never want to see my
face again. ...
“I’m frightened it 1 be the othei way
about, May, he replied. Aftei a ■ .
you’ve been used to—to ducal houses ot
England, and the millionaires homes on the
palisades of the Hudson, and the Casino at
Monte Carlo.” „
. I came away winning fifty francs, sne
cried ecstatically. “What do you ihju 0
that for a record? But oh, Jimmy, Jimmy,
I’m full, tired, chock-a-block, heartily sick
of the whole business. I’m not sick of my
work; it’s the other things you cant escape.
It’s got me down at times. Sometimes 111
feel inclined to chuck it all up and go back
to the soda-fountain at Mrs. Blessmgt on s.
Oo!” she gurgled. “Do you know what
I did when I went down to Illawarra last
month? I didn’t say a word to anybody,
but went straight to the hotel and left
Odette there with my things. Then I
walked round to the shop and slipped m
without anybody seeing me. I took off my
hat and went behind the counter and rung
up the cash-register. I knew that would
bring her. She rushed in from the back
thinking there were thieves. You’d have
died to see her face. ‘Come back to my old
job,’ I said. ‘They’ve sacked me at the
other place.’ ‘You dear thing,’ she called
out. That was all she could say. She
was laughing and crying over me and she
made me feel quite blubbery, too.”
“By the way, May, are you Mrs. Bles-
sington’s long-lost uncle who died in Pais-
ley. Scotland?”
"Have you brought the eggs?’ she sallied.
‘You are dense,’ she added, noting his l[?]
of mystification. ‘Don’t you remember
the first time we met?’”
May laughed. “How did you find out? 1
hope you didn’t tell her?”
“Not much. She wrote up to me telling
me she’d got a letter from a solicitor in
Edinburgh saying that she’d become en-
titled to an annuity of £lOO on the death of
her uncle. She told me she’d never had an
uncle that she knew of and asked me if I
could find out anything. The poor old lady
evidently suspected some trick. I said I’d
get the police to inquire, and, after a time,
I wrote again saying that they were satis-
fied the letter was genuine. I guessed who
the uncle was.”
“I’m so glad you said nothing,” said May.
“Mr. Wellington wrote telling me that she
was failing and the business was going to
pieces and she’d got into court. She was
very good to me, you know. I couldn t see
her on the old-age pension, so I fixed i
up with the lawyers. Shes fine and com y
now—the old dear. ,
h “ d ,?° “ uch p ‘°
of her studies m Pans; of the way ola
E]ise Dubois the maker of pri ma donnas,
had out of her way to teach her all
there wag tQ be taught and to push her for-
ward at the end of her tuition; the diffi-
cultieg of securing an opening even with
f ib j s advantage; the hopes and the appre-
hengions preced i n g the initial appearance
« Manon » at the Opera Comique, and the
final triumph con fi rmed by London and
New York.
It WQg not a con secutive story—May was
never consecutive; she would break off in
fhe midd i e Q f one incident to tell Jimmy
about the funny b i rdse ll e r on the Quai
o’Orsay, into the middle of another to
degcribe bow a party of girl students had
sbocked the mother of one by taking her
tQ supper at tbe Cabaret des Belle Poules.
There was always something to recall about
p ar j s i an b f. e; the cabarets, the boulevards,
tbe sbopS) the quaint people who earned
tbe j r ii v i ngs in quaint ways, the theatres
and tbe vaudeville shows and, perhaps most
interesting of all, the little fifty-centime
p j aces G f entertainment patronised so freely
by t be poorer Parisians, but of which the
touring foreigner knows nothing,
Then there was the Ball of the Four Arts,
t 0 which May had gone as Cleopatra, the
carn i va ] upon which the combined artistic
ab ; b ty of the city works without fee or
rcward other than the gratification of excel-
j ]ng j n tbe beautiful. The first prize that
year ba d fallen to a composition of gladia-
tors and nymp hs, original in conception,
exquisite in design.
May talked of this glorious picture of liv-
]ng me n and women until she thought of
something which had occurred at Kansas
City. She traversed the map of the world
like a child scrawling on one with a pencil.
Her descriptions were luminous but con-
fusing. Jimmy was left with the impression
that the comical interlude with the coach-
driver outside Rotterdam had taken place
at Medicine Hat.
“You stupid!” cried May, when he put
a question which did not fit. “Rotterdam
isn’t in Canada. What on earth would
people at Medicine Hat be doing living in
a windmill?”
Then London.
“When I saw Covent Garden, I thought
they were having a joke with me. Its
(Continued on page 45.)


Legal Notice,
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES. Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1170 of 1930. Between EDITH MAUD DUNN
(formerly Cheadle formerly Larnach) Petitioner and
JOHN WILLIAM DUNN Respondent. To John William
Dunn late of C/o G. Wall, Mitchell Street, Bourke.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Edith Maud Dunn has
commenced a suit against you in this Honourable
Court and is applying for a dissolution of marriage
on the grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse. AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an appear-
ance to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honourable Court on or before the sixteenth day
of December one thousand nine hundred and thirty,
and in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the Peti-
tion filed herein may be had by application to the
undersigned solicitor free of charge. Dated this
twenty-second day of September 1930. For the
Registrar (Sgd.) C. K. BODY (1.5.) Chief Clerk in
Divorce. (Sgd.) F. W. EWART Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 60a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Amusements,
SYDNEY'S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. 0. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: SONS O’ GUNS
(Commencing Saturday).
CRITERION: BIRD IN HAND
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
KING’S THEATRE:
LET US BE GAY.
OICKARDS’ TIV O LI THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
TWICE DAILY, at 2.30 and 8 p.m.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents
THE FOLLIES OF 1930,
With a Brilliant Cast of Popular Favorites.
Popular Pre-war Prices.
IJOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
“ MELBOURNE.
ALL TALKIE PROGRAMME.
KENNETH McKENNA in
TEMPLE TOWER
(Children under 16 not admitted).
ALSO
SALLY STARR in
PERSONALITY.
(Passed for General Exhibition).
Wanted.
WANTED TO BUY.
ENCYCLOPEDIA BRITANNICA. Late
edition. Reply P.O. Box 199, Bendigo.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
k
?w
arvo
b ¥
ojn
01^9^°
c ■
7004
NEW
BER.LEI
STEP-IN
Another Beriei
.triumph—the magic
Step-in! You must wear
it, it’s so new, so smart, so
utterly essential. Pass your
hands over your waist—
when you are wearing the
new Beriei Step-in—how
smoothly, snugly, the Step-
in fits . . . it correctly
defines both contour and
position of the waist.
New BerJei Step-in
7004. Even the Big
Hip type achieves the
defined waist in this
model. Slips on and
off so easily. Waists
26-36 ins.
New Berlei Step-in 7006.
Art silk Broche, silk elas-
tic. Opens partly each
side for rentention of form
and fit. Slightly yet
efficiently boned. Waists
24-30 ins.
7006
First—at any reliable store —have
your individual figure-type properly
checked by the wonderful Berlei
Indicator, choose a new Berlei Step-
in—they’re very moderately priced.
Every Berlei Foundation is Guaranteed.
BERIO
Fa -20-30.
The Little Sisters
Tennon's Thotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenstands
Distingurshed Soctal Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Sir John and Lady Goodwin gave a dinner
party at Government House to the Premier
and Mrs. Moore, the E. A. Athertons, the
W. H. Barneses, the R. M. Kings, the Attor-
ney-General and Mrs. Macgroarty, the God-
frey Morgans, the H. E. Sizers,' the 11. F.
Walkers, the C. Taylors, Colonel and Mrs.
Campbell, Colonel Worthington Wilmer and
Mr. Frank Ryder.
Nellie Bramley is playing “Oliver Twist”
under vice-regal patronage, with matinees
for school kiddies and the oifer of prizes for
essays on Oliver. George Cross Las shown
himself an able Fagin, Nellie a lovable
Austin Milroy a truculent Bill Sikes,
and Victor Ivnight a clever Artful Dodger.
The part of Oliver is taken by nretty Bebe
Scott, who camouflages herself well into
the forlorn waif.
Alexander Watson, who had a good season
in Brisbane, is adding some of M. Forrest’s
verse to his repertoire.
Caroline Barker lent her home, Bronte,
East Brisbane, for a garden party to bene-
fit the funds of the Royal Art Society. Mrs.
A. Barker and pretty Caroline received, the
former in navy, and Caroline in rose-pink
and mastic. There was an amusing burles-
que art exhibition arranged by iur. and Mrs.
Powell ; Miss A. Hobday and Mr. G. Chester-
field looked after the comic sideshows. Tliere
were brightly decorated stalls in the garden.
Chief Justice Blair opened Roy Parkin-
son’s exhibition of paintings in Grice’s salon.
The artist has shown true color sense in
depicting Australian scenery. “Canaipa Pas-
sage” is a particularly fine seascape.
This is Mrs. W. E. Bush, wife of the
Engineer for City Water Supply, who
directed the Old World Pageant in the City
Hall in aid of the Queensland Women’s War
M e morial
fund, the ob-
ject of which
is to raise
£lOOO for a
'is c u 1 p t u red
panel and two
fountains in
Anzac -square.
Many wore
the frocks of
their ances-
tors in trie
grand parade.
Coming from
the stage each
member curt-
seyed to the
vice-regal
partv before
returning for
the final tab-
leaux. Mrs.
A. E. Moore
led the page-
ant in black and ivory velvet, a sixteenth-
century gown sent from Maoriland, where
it was worn at a fancy-dress ball at Welling-
ton 53 years ago. Colonel D. C. Cameron’s
Scotch uniform (worn bv Hugh Nelson),
Colonel Campbell’s hunt dress-snit (worn by
Dick Macgregor), Colonel Hawkins’s uniform
of the Wide Bay Infantry (worn by Ray
Baxter) and a subaltern’s uniform of the
regiment of Sir Henry Norman, Governor
in 1889, were other interesting exhibits. Mrs.
Grierson-Brown had a Spanish scarf a cen-
tury old. Mr. W. E. Bush announced each
costume. Estelle Cormack danqed a, skirt
dance, Marjorie Hollinshed’s pupils gave a
gavotte and Gwendolyn Bradfield played the
harp. Noela Harris was there in her great-
grandmother’s gown. Zillah Larcombe wore
Mrs. Stanley Chapman’s wedding gown.
The E. E. Edwardses have returned from
a world tour this week. He is managing
director of the “Telegraph,” and has been
absent witli Mrs. Edwards for six months.
Betty, eight-year-old daughter of the C. J.
li'ams, of Taringa, nlayed before Backhaus
at Lennons for 40 minutes without looking
at a sheet of music, and delighted the pianist.
Beethoven, Handel and some of her own com-
positions were given by the little girl, whom
Wilhelm presented with his autograph,
adding a hope that her talent would not be
“forced.”
, The first inter-State express over the new
(Kyogle) route left Sydney'at 6.45 p.m. on
Friday and arrived at South Brisbane at
4.30 on Saturday afternobn, while thousands
cheered and locos sirened. Federal Minister
Forde, who had been a passenger, transferred
himself to the footplate and drove the train
towards the thin red ribbon, which Mrs. A.
E. Moore severed at the right moment. It
was coincident with the 75th anniversary of
the opening of the Sydney-Parramatta Junc-
tion line —and that was Australia’s first
railway. Congratulatory speeches followed.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
At the Amateur Turf Club’s meeting at
Cheltenham Mr. J. H. Morish (chairman)
and Mrs. Morish entertained- at afternoon
tea, the lady in a squirrel fur coat and small
velour hat. Everyone was pleased to see
Mrs. Morish about again; she has had many
anxious weeks nursing her son, who was
severely injured at football.
The final dance of the Adelaide University
Club, held in the Refectory, was rushed by
the younger set, a number of the officers of the
Dutch fleet being the attraction. The brass
buttons, however, left the dance rather early
in the evening, their departure being attri-
buted by some to the discovery that Uni-
versity regulations are against the provision
of trie refreshments expected at dances.
Mrs. A- E. V. Richardson brought Sisser-
mann, the ’cellist, and Miss McNeill, of Mel-
bourne, with her.
It would have taken more than the stormy
weather to keep people away from the recep-
tion given by Rear-Admiral Kayser and the
officers of the Dutch fleet. The deck was
enclosed, and dancing was enjoyed both there
and in the ward-room below. Mr. F. G. Scarfe
(.Consul for the Netherlands) received the
guests with the Rear-Admiral. Mr. Scarfe’s
daughter, Mrs. C. Deeley, took the place of her
mother, who is in Melbourne. The Javan-
ese band rendered popular music. Non-
daneex-s explored the cruiser, and also the
destroyers alongside. The Dutch evidently
specialise in chocolate creams, which were
handed round iix huge dishes. Everything
was well done, and all the officers appear to
speak English fluently.
The Outer Harbor has been in the boom;
one night last week the Royal Yacht Squad-
ron entertained about 600 guests on board
the Nestor, by permission of the shipping
company. The guests were received by the
Commodore (A. G. Rymill) and Captain F.
Adcock. The first and second decks were
enclosed with bunting and hung
colored lights. Supper was served in the
dining saloon. The Commodore’s wife looked
well in black ring- velvet.
Mrs. J. A. McArthur was a passenger by
the Nestor, returning to South Africa after
visiting her daughter, Mrs. Eric Tolley.
On Thursday night the Mount Osmond
Country Club gave a jolly welcome home to
their president (Mr. E. W. Holden) and his
wife, who have just returned from a trip
to England. During their absence an up-to-
date clubhouse has been built. The four-dial
clock recently presented to the club by Mr.
T. E. Barr-Smith was illuminated for the
first time. Bridge and dancing occupied the
guests, and the president presented the
ti-ophies won in the past week’s tournament.
Mi’s. Holden was charmingly gowned in one
of the popular floral chiffons, which suited
her slender lines.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Palms, bunting and a million paper lan-
terns and colored globules transformed two
decks of the Otranto into fairyland on the
night of the Orient Co.’s charity ball. A
replica of RlOl and a brace of ’planes
sailed just beneath the canvas awning, and
a lighthouse blinked its bright eye from a
rocky islet in the lea of a lifeboat. Smoke-
bush and kangaroo-paws decked the veran-
dah lounge, and Iceland poppies, ranun-
culi and snapdragons the rest of the float-
ing palace. The supper was magni-
ficent. One of the sheds was dressed up
with bunting and carpets as a weather-proof
approach from the road up the covered gang-
way. Lady Campion stepped out of the
v.-r. bower to dance in blue georgettes and
diamond hair ornaments; Max Way, man-
ager of the Orient Co., brought his wife in
georgettes of a lovely delphinium blue pat-
terned with milk-white beads ; the Mayoress
was in lame; Mrs. Sinclair McGibbon wore
black lace; Mrs. J. S. Young’s black taffetas
were printed with big gold flowers; Mrs.
Cocks wore green slippers with a floral
gown mostly pinks and greens; velvet bands
zigzagged about Mrs. Elton Wilson’s green
georgettes; Edna Noble’s mulberry laces had
a little shoulder cape; Hilda Watkins wore
shell-pink satin; Dorothy Stenberg had a
red necklet for her frock of buttercup georg-
ettes and tulle; shrimp-pink was Angie Ban-
ning’s choice; Hilda Lee Steere was in red;
Mollie Learmontli wore blue ninon; Joan
Good was in buttercup taffetas; pretty
Joyce Burridge danced in three tiers of blue
lace; Bernie Reid’s green chenille velvets
were topped by a little hip coat of metal
tissue; Elsie Paxton was a vision in dawn-
pinks with a fluttery cape effect; Joan
Blackall contrasted red slippers with a Nile-
green frock; Mrs. Claude Morlet’s fairness
was enhanced by her lime chiffons; Mrs.
Cam Milne chose lilac and Mary Lonergan
dawn-pink ninon; Alice Biggs’s lemon drap-
ei’ies included long sleeves; and Tynka
Salom was slim in peacock lace.
“A Pot of Broth” simmering in an Irish
cottage was the first course of the Repertory
Club’s bill of fare; thence in the three suc-
ceeding one-acters the audience was trans-
ported to modern London, Russia and seven-
teenth-century France. Maud Dingwall’s
Lady Lilian in “Half an Hour” was one
of her best efforts. Tom McGregor, Matthew
Quealy and'A. J. Bishop were her chief sup-
porters. Two pretty young things, Kitty
Boyd and Mollie Robinson, made their debut!
on the Repertory boards as Heather and
Ann in “The House with the Twisty Win-
dows.” Norman Wingrove played the imagi-
native Irishman Derrick Moore, and Mrs. j
R. J. Cox was Lady Teresa, cheerful even
in a Russian cellar. In “Comedy and Tra-
gedy” Molly Ick’s handling of the part of
Clarice D’Aulnay stood out as excellent. The
hall was packed, and hoards of flowers went
up over the footlights.
Dr. John Cyril Bennett, of Jarrahdale,
whose people live in Moonta (S.A.), has
slipped a diamond trinket upon the finger
of Mary Lonergan, of Swanbourne.
Among the last of a round of farewells
for Mary Hitch were bridge parties arranged
by Mrs. Ridgway and Mrs. Sydney Bell.
Miss Hitch sailed on the Otranto for
London.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The Tas. Horticultural Society’s daffodil
show seemed to gather all the spring into
one small compass. Besides numerous varie-
ties of the flower that comes before the
swallow dares there were thousands of other
spring blooms, including sweet-peas, ranun-
culi and cyclamens of enormous sizes. J. IT.
Hinsby carried off the championship for a
daffodil seedling.
The officers of the R.A.N.R. bade about
200 guests to their annual ball in the Drill
Hall on the Domain. His Ex. was received
by Lieutenant and Mrs. G. Evans. Supper
was sei’ved in one of the lower classrooms,
decorated out of all recognition, and a ship’s
bell marked the hours. Fi-ocks were multi-
farious in style and color, but all ankle-
or full-length.
The A. J. Millers turned their pretty
house in Montpelier-road inside out and
upside down to accommodate over a hundred
guests for their silver-wedding celebration.
The rooms showed every sort of spring
flower, and the supper tables were gay with
Japanese apple blossom, deep blue hyacinths
and violets. The wedding gifts in different j
varieties of silverware, among them a hand-
some silver tray from the staff of Miller and
Maund, were on view in the drawing-room.
The hostess wore a frock of black and gold
embossed lame. Daughter Margaret helped
to do the honors. ' Margaret O’Grady, in
pale-green georgette, was among the guests.
Myra, daughter of the A. Dixons, Scotts-
dale, New Norfolk, walked down the aisle
of St. Matthew’s Church as Mrs. George
Riley in a frock of ivory georgette and silver
lace. She wore a long veil of embroidered
silk net forming a little cap, and then fall-
ing from a spray of orange blossom at the
nape of the neck. The bridegroom’s sister
Muriel and the bride’s cousin Marjorie Mur-
doch ’maided in deep-blue georgette frocks,
very much flared, and sporting the popular
short cape. A big muster of guests was
entertained at Scottsdale afterwards, and
the bride went away in a frock of beige and
brown crepe de Chine under a fur coat. The
’groom hails from Manchester.
Among the latest affianced are Marjorie,
the G. A. Crisps’ youngest daughter, of
Lewis Hill, Avoca, and Ransom Gaunt, of
Hadspen.


mi
m
IpSP ?
mm
•MR
£$
*
mm
m
i
t
VO!
iciM
Glaciers move In
slow grandeur
in' ROM high elevations these great ice giants move
■*“ slowly down towards coast or river. Franz Josef and
the Fox Glaciers in the Southern Alps are the most
imposing glaciers in the world. Franz Josef is probably
the most beautifully set —for dark, rich bush presses close
to its icy sides and in summer red masses of rata blossom
glow against its whiteness. These glaciers are easily
accessible through beautiful bush walks from up-to-date
hotels.
Come to
NEW ZEALAND
FILL IN THIS COUPON
and post it addressed to —N.Z.
Govt. Office, Martin Place, Sydney.
P/ease send me illustrated Booklets and
full information about New 'Z.ealand.
Name
Address
fora DIFFERENT
Holiday
be in
NEW
ZEALAND
in a back lane and a dirty back lane, too.
Fancy! The most important opera house
in England! Then the policemen—they
look like policemen in a harlequinade and
the mud and the slush! Oh, Jimmy, I used
to wish I was back to Paris. One of these
days you must come to Paris. I’ll show
you round—personally conducted tour.
You’ll be just as crazy over it as I am. I
feel it’s my home now—my home when I’m
away; for, after all, there’s nothing like
old Australia, is there? And there’s nobody
like Jimmy. You remember what the girl
said in ‘Boheme’—the book,not the opera:
'My life has many songs, but Rudolph is
the chorus of them all.’ You’re my chorus,
Jimmy.”
CHAPTER XXVI.
Jimmy’s holiday passed quickly. He
was all his time with May. He would sleep
and breakfast, at the hotel, but the rest of the
twenty-four hours he spent in her company.
They bathed on the beach, and May began
to acquire the tan she had not worn since
the Illawarra days. They cycled north to
Carrum and west to Stony Point—taking
a trip over to Phillip Island by the
steamer —and south as far as Dromana, cross-
ing to the ocean, where they found surf;
at last, but surf filled with so many dangers
that he refused to let her swim out.
She was always eager to risk her life.
One day, when they had sailed out into
the middle of the bay and the water was
like green glass, they had almost quarrelled
because he would not allow her to have
a swim from the boat.
“This isn’t ocean water, and the sharks
here run to thirty feet long,” he explained
that evening. Her resentment had died
down long before they returned.
“Sharks won’t eat actresses,” she laughed.
“That’s a well authenticated fact—Fabre
or Burroughs or some great naturalist said
so—they’re too tough.”
“But you’re not an actress; you’re only
a singer,” Jimmy teased.
“You ought to have read what they said
about my acting in 'Tosca,’ ” she pouted.
Jimmy knew that she had been hailed as
an actress exceptional among the stars of
opera. But he thought of what the dramatic
critic had said four years ago. Was it the
wonderful personality of the girl which had
deceived the world into thinking that she
was an actress? Perhaps; there was no way
of distinguishing.
“My French got them in Paris,” she went
on. “You know, they say I’ve hardly a
trace of an accent. How 1 had to work at
it! I kept clear away from English for six
months—only the Australians. I couldn’t
pass them by when any of them came along;
but the English and Americans, as soon as
I heard them speak, I’d drop them. It was
awful; I suppose some of them thought
me really horrid, but I had to do it. I
suppose I’ll forget a lot of it through this
trip. Odette! Odette’s not the least little
bit of good. She’s a- Breton. Her French
isn’t nearly as good as niine. Her native
language isn’t French; it’s Irish—what do
you think of that? Old Martin Quirk’d
be quite at home with her.”
Odette grinned at Jimmy over May's
back and shrugged her shoulders. She was
used to her mistress.
Odette likfed Jimmy, but she did not like
his taste in music. His favorites revealed
neither the florid artistry of the Latin tem-
perament of Paris nor the simple harmonies
of her Breton village.
“Your voice, Madame, it is heavenly,”
she protested to May one night. “But
those songs, they are indeed terrible!”
When May touched on the subject, Jimmy
explained the disappearance of the Grey
family.
“Do you still love her, Jimmy?” May
asked.
“No,” he replied. “It was only a romantic
idea at the time. I’ve got more sense now.”
“Still, she was a nice little girl, a good
little girl.”
“Yes; all that,” assented Jimmy.
“Perhaps jmu’ll meet her again some day,
or another better still. If you do, don’t
miss your chance. There’s nothing in go-
ing alone. The wild duck’s flown enough.
Do you know, Jimmy, dozens of times I’ve
thought what a fool I was not to marry you?”
He placed his hand on hers. "Is this
one of the times, May?”
She looked into his eyes. “I’m not quite
sure; and it’s that uncertainty that stands
in the way. Oh, Jimmy, I wish I could
love you, feel absolutely sure, certain, that
I’d never feel more towards anybody else.”
“I wouldn’t have suggested it as things
are, only you brought it up,” he said.
“That doesn’t make a scrap of difference,
Jimmy. If I felt love or if I knew that
what I feel to you was the maximum, the
ultimate, the very utmost it was in my
nature to feel, I’d never leave you. I’ve
made a big hit, I don’t undervalue success;
but I know what it is. I suppose I’m vain
just like anybody else,' and it’s fine to
have money to get the nice things you
want and be able to make mother and the
boys comfy and help other people you
like who want helping. Better than all it
brings you is that you don’t have to worry
about the future. I have enough invested
safely to keep me comfortable for life, to
give me everything—everything—l’ll ever
want. But when you’ve got three meals
a day and a warm bed and a decent outfit
of clothes, the world can’t give you very
much more.”
“It can give you love and friendship and
intimacy,” corrected Jimmy.
“That’s what I was coming to. I meant
in material things. We pay too much
attention to arithmetic. Is the man with
two millions of money twice as happy in
material things as the man with one mil-
lion? As far as happiness goes, the man
with two pounds a week may be miles
better off, Jimmy. You and I are very
little happier to-day than we were at Illa-
warra. We’re relieved from worrying about
the future; that’s about all.”
Jimmy smiled. “I’m not so sure about
myself,” he remarked. “I haven’t many
investments, though they’re safe enough—
the savings bank holds all my vast wealth.
That’s why I was shy about talking mar-
riage; for a reporter on eight a week to
propose marriage to a world-famous prima
donna’s the sort of thing that makes a
good news-story through the very insolent
audacity of the man.”
May clambered on the arm of his chair
and put her arm around his neck. “You
old dear! Do you think I wouldn’t be as
ready to marry you now as when I was
working the soda fountain,if I was only sure?”
“I know you would, May, but that’s the
position. When I asked you four years
ago, I was within my rights. Now it’s an
impertinence.”
“You’ll make me marry you if you go
on talking like that,” she laughed.
“Then get ready for a ten-hour speech.”
“As for giving up the life”—she ignored
the interruption—“there’s no actual neces-
sity to do that; but when I marry I’m
done with it. It’s gratifying for a little
while to be worshipped, but you get tired
of it. After all, what am I but a mounte-
bank, earning much more than I’m really
worth simply because I happen to have a
freak throat—a malformation? There’s the
learned pig and the two-headed donkey
and Madame Ulara—the difference is only
a matter of degree; and if you come to
straight-out popularity, there are more
people in the world who can appreciate the
learned pig than there are who honestly
appreciate me.”
She was wearing a cream silk flowered
kimono—one of the few expensive garments
she had brought with her. Jimmy had never
seen her look lovelier. He pulled her
across the chair to his knees and kissed
her passionately.
“You’ll marry me, May,” he said huskily.
“You’ll marry me, dear. I must have you
with me ”
. ~ n . , ~ i i • u ■
A sudden idea flashed through his bi a ’ a
like a spasm. Lou don t love anybody else.
W ould I be here in your arms if I did.
she asked. I d still like my old Jimmy,
I d still delight m his company within
hmits. But you d be over theie and I
be here. No, no, Jimmy.
“There was a report that you were to
marry some Balkan prince.”
Her eyes flashed. “Little Ferdy! That
prawn—all medals and whiskers! I was
wild when the press-agent got that off; but
the manager wouldn’t let me tell the truth
about it. He said it was tip-top publicity
matter. I met Ferdy in Los Angeles. He
paid me a lot of attention, not that I wanted
him; and do you know what he had the
cheek—the damn cheek—to suggest? That
I should become his morganatic wife. If
he’d wanted me to- go off on a trip with
him somewhere I could have forgiven him;
that’s human. But to be one of the ladies,
of the harem! I gave Ferdy some good
democratic sentiments—a. bit of Elijah
Moon—and he went off with his tail
between his legs. Once or twice I did begin
to think I’d found what I was looking for,”
she mused on, “but before I committed my-
self I thought of you, Jimmy, and you
always won. I said to myself ‘lf it lies
between so and so and Jimmy, it’s Jimmy
every time; the best thing is to go back to
Australia and see if he’s still available.’ And
now I’ve come back and found you avail-
able and turned you down again. Isn’t that
a woman for you?”
"So you’re going away to leave me, May!”
“Unless you’ll come with me. There are
plenty of jobs in the business. You’d make
a star permanent press-agent, Jimmy.”
“No, no, May; I couldn’t think of it.”
She grew serious as she considered the
possibilities of the scheme, suggested half-
humorously.
“Why couldn’t you, Jimmy? I know
what you’re thinking; but it’s wrong. I
mean you to work for your living. I
won’t give you a penny more salary than
the other press-agents get and you’ll have
to keep up to the mark. I can be a terrible
martinet when I like. If you loaf, there’s
always a chance of being sacked on the
spot in some backblock town in Arizona
or Holland. That’ll keep you busy. What
about it, Jimmy?” she asked eagerly.
“Doesn’t appeal a little bit. How long
do you think the world would retain its
unsullied innocence? You’re an impulsive
person, May. The story of how the prima
donna was found sitting on the press-
agent’s knee would be better publicity than
the press-agent himself could ever dream of.”
Their close association during this brief
holiday brought Jimmy closer to May than
he had ever been previously. There was
not an hour they spent together that she
did not reveal some new trait which made
her more desirable. Yet Jimmy was forced
to admit, though he did not admit it to
May, that with all his regard and admira-
tion and all the charms which spurred the
amorous in his nature, she failed to send
the blood coursing through his veins in
the same way that Alma had. Possibly
that was due to his age, he reflected; a
man of twenty-five is a different being
from a boy of sixteen.
(To be continued next week.)


is
m
,-i
f
* -
ill m
m
}. I
Queens Court is one of the most interesting sights of Bryce Canyon, National
Park, where Nature’s handiwork seems almost Gothic in its beauty of form*
America’s colourful west
.. where "pictures” are made
*
Include this interesting country
in your next trip to ENGLAND
! 1 #f
%Wmmß.
m wmm
mm
m
m
mm
sss?s
mmmi
m-
IH
m-m
*§p
K<MX
a
,
mam
MR
The towering Hotel New Y orker
typifies Americas newest style
.of structural architecture with
its pyramidal set - backs.
IN moving pictures of thrilling
western life in America, you ve
doubtless admired the rugged moun-
tains, the sculptured canyons, the castle-
like cliff dwellings of prehistoric peoples,
the far-flung ranches where Indians and
cowboys live.
Did you know that this picturesque
country is right on your shortest, fastest
route to England?
When next you go “back home,” plan
to see America! You sail from Sydney
to San Francisco on a fast Matson liner
with moving pictures, orchestra, deck
sports, swimming pool. Daylight stops
are made at Fiji, Samoa, Hawaii. The
climate is pleasant all the way.
From San Francisco you have a scenic
trip across the United States in a
luxurious modern railway train. What-
ever route you choose, there are many
things that will make your trip interesting
and memorable! Bryce, Zion, Yellow-
stone, Yosemite, Grand Canyon and other
National Parks. Hollywood, Los Angeles,
Salt Lake City, Denver, Chicago, New
York, among cities.
STOP
mm
m
m
Riding wild bulls is one of the
favourite sports of the cowboys —
seen on ranches and at rodeos
in America’s far-western States.
Ask for our new free literature, “To
England Across America,” telling how
you can arrange your entire trip before
you leave Australia.
Write to Dept. M 20
AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL
and INFORMATION RIJREAU
12 Bridge Street,
Sydney.


AS WE SAID BEFORE.
This Page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
NUMBER TWELVE.
I first met No. 12 under the most ordinary
circumstances. It was on a certain very
miserable day when my business arrange-
ments made it necessary for me to visit a
station a few miles from Orange (N.S.W.).
Gladly would I have remained within range
of the genial warmth of a brightly burning
fire, for there was nothing to attract and
everything to repel one out in the freezing
air. But I had to go, for necessity knows
no law. I was wretched enough -when I
reached Callary. station, the terminus of
my journey. When I dismounted from my
shivering horse, a man came forward to take
charge of it that man was No. 12. He
obviously had no claims to be regarded as
f or w u o could correctly guess what years
ha(J passed over the head of that battered
specimen of antiquity or misery? I was
in no mood to philosophise on the attendant
miseries of human life; still less was I dis-
posed to attempt any physiognomical delinea-
tion of the human paradox before me. Long,
shaggy grey hair, thickly matted with grease
and the accumulated dirtiness of halt a cen-
tury ; thick, heavy eyebrows almost ven-
ing the hollow sunken eyes; 'a face wrinkled,
sad and seamed, and deeply indented with
Hie Hues that age and care had ploughed,
made up the in(lividua iity 0 f No. 12.
Nothing very inviting in this portrait!
A nd yet No. 12 was once a man with a
man’s aspirations and ambitions. Long
years before disgrace branded him with the
broad arrow, and a dark despair shadowed
nim with funeral wings, he played on the
chords of life’s symphonies. But that had all
passed away, and now the inner man was as
battered and toughened as the external shell.
The name of No. 12 I never knew. His
history gradually leaked out in little con-
versations we had together. Briefly
recorded, it was this. He had been very well
brought up in a quiet English country vil-
jage, and had he been of a less restless dis-
position would doubtless have journeyed
along easy paths of life, slipped into his
father’s shoes—succeeded to the hereditary
farm, and developed into a happy-go-lucky
English yeoman. Unfortunately for himself,
No. 12 made two mistakes. He thought for
himself—mistake number one ; and he fell in
love with a very pretty girl—mistake number
two. Ido not mean to insinuate for one
moment that these two things—thinking for
one’s self or falling in love with a pretty girl
—are mistakes in the abstract, but what I
wish to brake clear is that, although these
things are well enough in theory, their resul-
tant issues are sometimes very wrong. Such
was the experience of No. 12. He became a
thinker, aiid his thinking developed into
Chartism. He fell in love with and married
a girl from a family hereditarily at war with
his own. For the first offence his little,
narrow-minded local world ostracised him;
for the second, an angry father showed him
the door and “cut him off.”
“It never rains but it pours, and No.
soon found himself deluged with the super-
abundant waters. No trade, a young wife, a
social and political outcast, plenty of ambi-
tious hopes—these were his stock-in-trade.
Had his lot been cast in freer countries like
America or Australia, his chances of future
success would still have been many; but
in England, then, his disabilities were such
as to augur badly for his future prospects.
The elaborations of his life brought this
result. He went to a village where he was
unknown, and strove, by persevering indus-
try, to make a home. Wages were at little
better than starvation rates, and, to make
matters worse, his pretty wife was overcome
by the illness of maternity. With thousands
of others he was thrown out of work—left
to starve in the depth of a pitiless winter.
It made him mad to sit day by day by her
bedside and watch the color slowly fading
from her face; to sec the hideous ravages
gaunt want was making of her finely-chis-
elled features; to hear the small, helpless
cry of the little pinched form beside her.
What could he do? One thing; there was
abundance of game in the neighboring pre-
serves, and there was a rusty old fowling-
piece hanging up against the wall. Out into
the cold, weird, wild night he went, facing
the driving blast and treading on the soft,
white snow that mantled the earth. He
shot several fine hares, and, hastening home,
prepared a feast that cheered the spirit of
his girl-wife and infused something of cour-
age and hope into his own breast. That
savory dish of hot hare-stew was the last
meal he. ever made in his own home. People
were starving and the preserves were full of
game ; but woe to the gaunt humanity that
sought in their sacred precincts some alle-
viation of its terrible hunger pains. It was
the golden epoch of convictism, too, and
poor, starved-out No. 12 stood in the dock,
and, in a listless sort of way, heard the
sentence that he was to be deported to
Botany Bay for the “Term of his natural
life.” At Botany Bay he was branded, num-
bered, and made the assigned convict of
Thomas Halenn Carter, Esq., of Calara.
His wife and child did not remain very
long after his conviction. They did not
follow him to N.S.W., but bade adieu to
their miseries, and were laid in a corner of
the little village graveyard. But what
made the fate of No. 12 so desperately hard
was this. His father, becoming acquainted
with his son’s fate, and somewhat relenting,
used what influence he possessed in striving
to obtain a mitigation of the sentence. In
this lie was successful, for after a few years
a full pardon was sent out releasing No. 12
from the bonds of convictism. That pardon
never reached him. but fell into the hands of
Thomas Halenn Carter, Esq. That gentle-
man, finding No. 12 a good servant, quickly-
put the pardon in the fire and discreetly held
his peace—held his peace till, on his death-
bed, long years after, his fears made the
reparation his greed had so long withheld.
Then No. 12 knew he was a free man ! But
the freedom came too late. It came to a
wreck and a ruin, to a man whose manhood
had long been withered by foul wrong and
clanging chain and biting lash.
[l2/7/’9o.] Ajax.
For some years past a writer whose sig-
nature was “Miranda” furnished sundry
columns of girly-girly gossip every week to
the “Lady’s Pictorial.” It comes as rather
a shock to the readers of that paper to dis-
cover that “Miranda” was a male individual,
and bore the name of Archibald McNeill.
Young girls, middle-aged girls, elderly girls—
girls of all sorts, in fact —poured their con-,
fidcnces into “Miranda’s” ear. They wrote
asking him to expound dark points regard-
ing stockings and frilling; they consulted him
on cosmetics and hair washes and things that
would remove pimples; they
took his opinion on the sub-
ject of trimmings for garments
which are worn in the
silent watches of the night.
“Miranda” answered them all
and breathed soft confidences
into the pink ear of the public.
Now “Miranda” has come to a
sudden end. He went away to
report the Smith-Kilrain prize-
fight, and a day later liis dead
body was found in the Seine.
The man who had so long dis-
pensed sage advice on stock-
ings and corsets had been
robbed and strangled, and had
carried with him into eternity
an extensive knowledge of
how the British female is made
up. When last seen alone,
“Miranda” was mashing a bar-
maid and liquoring-up, and he
left behind him a large assort-
ment of unopened correspond-
ence from girls who wanted to
learn how they could prevent
white satin shoes from getting
baggy and thus leaving an im-
pression that their feet were
twice their proper size, mixed
with epistles from little darlings who were
anxious to know what effect asses’ milk
would have if applied externally to a waist
that was 17 inches round. Someone else will
have to settle these points now, for “Miranda”
is waving the dishcloth of fashion from the
battlements of the Golden Shore.
Twelve millions sterling of British capital
have flowed into Australia during the last
12 months. A million a month! In the
sweet by-and-bye the interest will have to
be paid. [25/2/’BB.]
A Sydney book-dealer tells_ a queer story
of a recent experience of his. One night
a little old man whom he did not know came
to his house and said to him: “I believe you
have on hand a copy of ” (naming the
book). “I have.” replied the bookman.
“What is yonr price for it?” “Twenty-five
pounds.” “You oan!t let me have it for
less?” “No.” “Then I’ll take it.” And
he did take it, and paid for it. “You don’t
mind my destroying it here?” asked the little
old man. “No,” replied the astonished book-
dealer. Whereupon the ancient personage
started to tear it up leaf by leaf, throwing
the fragments into the fire. Having com-
pleted the destruction of the volume he
departed.
Thirty-eight of the western squatters of
Victoria own between them the freehold of
1,428,050 acres of magnificent land. The
largest of these landholders are the trustees
of Mr. John Moffat, of Hexham, with 90,104
acres; the smallest holder, Mr. Jerry Ware,
of Koortnong, with 23,817 acres. Each of
the 38 proprietors holds, on an average,
37,581 acres. 125/2/’BB.J
Down at Ballarat there is an old miner
who owns a dog, which is also well up in
years and is the worst-kicked animal in
Victoria. Every time the dog looms on the
horizon its owner gives chase, and he will
run a mile for the satisfaction of landing
his boot in the faithful quadruped’s ribs.
The history of this animosity dates back
many years. At a time when both the dog
and his master were a good deal younger
than they are now, the one was fossicking
near Ballarat and the other was tied up
to a log in the near vicinity. He scratched
out a deep hole alongside the log in course
of time, and when his proprietor gave up
the locality in despair and moved on, another
fellow came along and drove his pick into
the shallow sinking which the canine had
left behind. Two inches below the surface
he discovered a stupendous nugget, and
rolled in wealth for the rest of his life, and
when the miserable prospector heard _of it
he cursed the dog as the cause of his un-
doing, and kicked it ever afterwards for not
scratching that hole a little deeper.
Purves, Q.C., president of the Australian
Natives’ Association, etc., was walking along
a Melbourne street the other day, when a
digger ranged up alongside him and addressed
him without the intervention of a solicitor,
thereby shattering the etiquette of the pro-
fession into small bits, and knocking the
pieces about. “You’ve been p’inted out to
me,” he began apologetically, and Purves
made a mental note that he would have the
gore of the man who took the liberty of
pointing him out to anybody: “Ain’t your
name Purves?” The lawyer admitted that
it was. “Well, that’s all right then,” said
the digger with a great sigh of relief. “You
see, I’ve got a splendid claim at Rushworth,
and there’s a lawsuit coming on, and I want
to know how much you would take to come
up and defend the case?” “To come
up to Rushworth?” asked Purves softly.
“Yes.” “H’m! Rushworth? That’s near
Port Darwin, isn’t it?” “O Lord, no!
It’s just beside Sandhurst. It’s quite near.”
“Oh ! And you want me to come up to Rush-
worth?” “Of ' course. How much’ll you
take?” “Well—l’ll do it for Oh, look
here, I’ll tell you what I’ll do. I’ll take the
mine.” Then the digger-man left.
That daring and successful speculator Mr.
W. H. Paling, of Sydney, has presented to
the people of N.S.W. 450 acres of land at
Camden an<j £lO,OOO in cash with a view
to the establishment of a hospital for con-
valescents, an institution which is urgently
required in the colony. The act, which is
a nobleiaone, and in all involves a gift of
some £38,000, will, we trust, be imitated
by the wealthy among the “Englishmen,
Scotchmen and Irishmen” for whose exclu-
sive use the N.S.W. Premier publicly said
the other day he was desirous of conserving
the soil of Australia. Mr. Paling is a native
of Germany. [3/3/’BS.]
PETER LALOR.
[l6/2/’88.]
It was said of the late shent-per-shent
Aaron Waxman, of Melbourne,. that he kept
the trunk containing his securities near the
head of his bed and lay awake to hear them
accumulate interest. L—l/l/'SS. 1
Booz’em friends —Drunks.
THE GHOST.
Down the street as I was drifting with the
city’s human tide,
Came a ghost, and for a moment walked in
silence by my side—
Now, my heart was hard and bitter, and a
bitter spirit he,
So I felt no great aversion to his ghost-y
company.
Said the Shade; “At finer feelings let your
lip in scorn be curled—
‘Self and pelf,’ my friend, remember, that’s
the motto for the world.”
And he said; “If you’d be happy, you must
clip your fancy’s wings—-
Stretch your conscience at the edges to the
size of earthly things ;
Never fight another’s battle, for a friend can
never know
When he’ll gladly fly for succor to the bosom
of the foe.
At the power of truth and friendship let
your lip in scorn be curled —
‘Self and pelf,’ my friend, remember, is the
motto of the world.
THIS PICTURE.
With radiant hopes we cross the seas
To sunny New South Wales,
To pick the rubies off the trees
And gather gold in pails.
AND THAT.
Our radiant hopes have gone to smash.
Someone has found the gold.
We find (being rather short of cash )
An outdoor bed is cold.
[28/7/’88.]
“Where Society is mighty always truckle to
her rule •
No T f r^i, n T ”" dotted *» the
- or a Sicnooi, ,
Only fight a wrong or falsehood when the
crowd is at your back,
And, till charity repays you, shut the purse,
and let her pack;
At the fools who would do other let your
lip in scorn be curled —
‘Self and pelf,’ my friend, remember, is the
motto of the world.
der assail the shaky ladders Fame has
from her niches hung
r f f ■ n i m . ,iL vmi o-riiul V our
Lest unfriendly heels above you grind your
lingers fiom the iling ,
Or the fools who idle under, envious ot
your renown, .
Heedless of the pain you suffer, do their
worst to shake you down.
At the- praise of men, or censure, let your
lip in scorn be curled — . • .
‘Self and pelf,’ iny friend, remember, is the
motto of the world.
“Flowing founts of inspiration leave their
sources parched and dry;
Scalding tears of indignation sear the hearts
that beat too high ;
Chilly waters thrown upon it drown the fire
that’s in the bard,
And the sneering of the critic hurts his heart
till it grows hard.
At the fame your Muse may offer let your
lip in scorn be curled —
‘Self and pelf,’ my friend, remember, is the
motto of the world.
“Shun the fields of love, where lightly, to a
low and mocking tune,
Strong and useful lives are ruined and the
broken hearts are strewn.
Not a farthing is the value of the honest love
you hold;
Call it lust, and make it serve you! Set your
heart on nought but gold.
At the bliss of ‘purer passions’ let your lip
in scorn be curled —
‘Self and pelf,’ my friend, remember, is the
motto of the world.”
Then he ceased and looked intently in my
face, and nearer drew; .
But a sudden deep repugnance to his presence
thrilled me through.
Then I saw his heart was cruel, by the dark
forbidding scowl;
Then I felt his breath was poison, by the
shudd’ring of my soul;
Then I guessed liis purpose evil, by his lip
in sneering curled,
\nd I knew he slandered mankind, by my
knowledge of the world.
But he vanished as a purer, brighter presence
gained my side.
“Heed him not! There’s truth and friendship
in this wond’rous world,” she cried ;
“And of those who cleave to virtue, in their
climbing for renown,
Only they who faint or falter from the height
are shaken down.
At a cynic’s baneful teaching let your lip
in scorn be curled!
‘Brotherhood and Love and Honor!’ that’s
the motto for the' world.”
[lO/8/’S9.]
HENRY LAWSON.
IN MEMORIAM—L.T.
Dead! Gone ere the light of morning
Left the rugged hills of life.
“Dead!” I mutter, hating, scorning
All the useless stir and strife.
All the joy of plain and mountain,
And the beauty of the glen,
Rippling streamlet, crystal fountain,
And the puny works of men—■
Useless all! while we behold them
Comes the thief, whose prey is breath,
And the shades of night enfold them —
We are face to face with Death.
[22/3/’9O. ]
J. LE GAY BRERETON.


To-days Quickest aid
to sparkling
HEALTHandJFITNESS
'm?
‘Pep’ in a Few Minutes
m
m
m
There’s nothing like
Cream of Yeast to calm
the Nerves in tense,
exciting moments /
WHY be nervous, weak-looking and depressed? You can put
new pep into your jaded body; new sparkle in your eyes; and
gain several pounds of healthy “stay-there” flesh, improving
your looks and fitness amazingly—by means of this New Yeast Com-
pound. Everyone who tries Cream of Yeast says it is a marvellous pick-,
me-up! Not only makes you feel better and brighter in a few minutes,
but it has no equal for banishing “pasty” skin, nerve troubles, indiges-
tion, headaches, sleeplessness and “run-down” conditions generally.
Bony limbs take on attractive curves; ugly hollows vanish-—you quickly
become a different being when you take this remarkable remedy.
Thousands
say “Cream
of Yeast is
LIFE!”
m
m
■
m
1
%
mm
i
■
4 poo 3
jo sof e
am aisop
" soil SI 9
Gain Weight
and Stamina
NOW!
ONE
User says:
“I find great
relief in Cream
of Yeast; it has
lone me good
in several
ways. Had
been in ‘ Hospital’ and ‘ Sani-
tarium.’ Was going back in health, and
was in a very bad way. Before finishing
my first bottle of Cream of Yeast I
began to improve. I have spent no end
of money on other medicines, but none
have accomplished the good that Cream
of Yeast has done.... Such a vast im-
provement in so short a time.”
A.E., Young, N.S.W.
i*B
mm
m
JA\
W-x***,
m
£ #&&$:
A Leading Newspaper says: “Cream of Yeast is
a re-vitaliser. Its great beneficial health-giving power lies in the
fact that it quickly tones up the whole
system and so corrects the trouble
at its root. The combination
of essential' substances
makes Cream of
Yeast the great-
| est tonic pick-
me-up known."
GAIN
NEW ‘PEF
TO-DAY —-
Amazing Vitality To-morrow
This ig something new in rejuven-
ating “pick-merups”—-the benefits
come with surprising rapidity, yet
results are lasting. Cream of Yeast
combines yeast and other medicinal
agents of known and proven value
—in handy tablet form. Safe and
reliable. Unfailing results.
It is folly to he thin, nervous and lacking in “pep”
when thousands , once rim-down and ill, tell how they
gained 3lbs. to 15lbs. in 2 or 3 weeks —and immediate
new strength—by simply taking Cream of Yeast.
Quick Benefit
—or Money Back!
Get a package of Cream of
Yeast from the nearest
Chemist. Take as directed
on bottle, and if after this
generous trial you are not
thrilled with the weight and
health benefits gained, your
money will be refunded by
Amalgamated
Laboratories,
Wynyard
Square,
Sydney.
WHAT CREAM OF YEAST DOES
Relieves Headaches and Neu-
ralgia in If minutes. Banishes
Depression, Low Spirits, Brain
Fag in 8 minutes. Relieves
Acidity, Sour Stomach, Indiges-
tion in 8 minutes. Relieves
Periodical and Abdominal Pains
usually in 12 minutes.
Clears up Influenza Colds,
Catarrh attacks, Rheumatism,
Aches, Pains, etc., within 15
hours. Gives marked increase of
Forceful Vigor and “Pep” in
15 minutes. Clears Pimples,
Boils, Muddy Skin and) Erup-
tions usually within 2 days.
Famous
Athletes
train on
Cream of Yeast.
o
All Chemists and Stores,
1/11, 3/6 and 5/9.


The Radio that’s real
RAYCOPHONE
All-electric, S-valve Screen Grid.
The season’s greatest radio. Com-
plete with Magnavox Dynamic
Speaker (New Xcore type).
£49/10/-
Other Raycophone Models from
£25. Easy Terms.
The Radio thafs real
Get the most out of the air
with RAYCOPHONE
Reaching strongly into the ether a RAYCOPHONE selects for you,
easily and quickly, a wonder-world of news and entertainment.
Produced by the makers of Raycophone Talkie equipment,
Australia’s greatest achievement in Radio manufacture, you are
assured of a built-in quality that cannot be matched either in
Australia or abroad.
Considering this, and considering price, Raycophone is the only
logical choice of the man who wants to get “the most out
of the air ”
RAYCOPHONE DISTRIBUTORS:
Branches all States
and New Zealand.
LTD
Radio, Photo and
Cine Merchants.
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established 41 Years-
Your request will bring a beautiful illustrated
price list, Free. Address to Harringtons,
Ltd., G.P.O. Box 4146 X, Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
Australians Always Come Home.
MARGARET FANE
AND HILARY LOFTING TELL THE STORY OF
THE DOLL THAT PUZZLED THE 'LOO.
TM LONELY was chuckling at one of
the colorful lady’s stories when the
shadowy old woman entered. Old and
shapeless, she drifted up to the counter and
stood waiting until Tom cared to come down
and serve her.
“Yes, Miss Creswick?”
Tired, uninterested eyes glanced at him.
“My weekly order, Mr. Lonely, if you’re
not too busy.”
“Never too busy for you, Miss Creswick,”
Tom told her, a benevolent vigor in his voice.
“The usual order?”
She continued to watch him in abstracted
silence until his pencil-tapping on the
counter prompted her. She sighed and
clutched more firmly the doll she was carry-
ing. “A quarter-pound of tea,” she began,
“half a pound of salt, a pennyworth of
pepper.” Tom was all attention writing the
list of very small quantities. “A quarter-
pound of butter”
The eyes of the colorful lady fell on the
doll and registered, first, dramatic surprise;
afterwards they swam in glowing compas-
sion. The doll was hooded, its head covered,
and as shapeless as the listless old woman.
But a doll —a doll dragged round the ’Loo
by a poor old deadbeat! Could you beat it?
Tom wrapped up the little parcels in one
big parcel, and Miss Creswick and her doll
went out as impersonally, as indifferently as
they had come in. Her shapeless, ragbag
figure seemed hardly to darken the doorway
as she drifted out into Cathedral-street and
was gone.
“Poor old thing!” The expressive eyes
of Miss Valerie Bellairs threatened to over-
flow. “And her bits of groceries for a
week! And her d 011!.... She looks as if
she might be an old trouper, Tom—lifting
her elbow or something?” ,
Tom put his elbows on his counter. “I
don]t know,” he said, “and nobody knows.
If it’s lifting her elbow, she doesn’t now.
You actresses are all the same-—always
nosing about for sobstuff stories.”
Miss Bellairs laughed and took a cigar-
ette from Tom’s packet on the counter. “It’s
the grease-paint, Tom,” she said com-
placently. “But if ever I saw a story that
was one.”
“Well, it isn’t.” He took a cigarette him-
self and put the packet in his pocket. “She’s
the vegetable-help at the Austral, where you
board. She peels your potatoes, cuts your
beans and drowns most of the slugs in your
cabbages.” He smiled affectionately at her.
“That’s all, Val,” he added.
“Spill it,” she insisted. “You can’t tell
me, with that doll—l suppose the doll be-
longed to some poor little kid” —the eyes
filled again—“long dead and buried.”
“Very likely. That’s what the ’Loo says,
and she’s been lugging it about here for
donkey’s years, so I suppose the ’Loo ought
to know. It never sees her without the
doll.”
“And she works in the kitchen down at
the Austral?”
“Yes. They tell me she has a marvellous
touch with vegetables—-as quick as light-
ning and not sixpenn’orth wasted in a
twelvemonth.” He smiled again. “There’s
no way you can make a story of it, Val.”
“But she’s like an old shapeless nothing
wandering in and out of doorways, carting
her dead baby’s doll about. Her arm round
the doll is the only part of her that’s, alive.
If you stared at her face for a week you
couldn’t tell what she looked like. You
can’t tell me!”
“Bit touched, I expect,” Tom suggested.
“Have another fag?”
“No, I won’t. I’m going home. I can’t
get that dead baby out of my mind, and
that doll wandering round the ’L00”....
Meantime old Miss Angela Creswick went
indeterminately up Cathedral-street and
faded into one of the lanes behind Corfu-
street. Through the wash-house she went
and up the stairs to the room over it. She
shut the door and, as was her habit, locked
it.
The small parcels and bags she put into
the cupboard. No need to put the little
kettle on the gas-ring; she’d get a cup of
tea later on. She shut the cupboard-door
and picked up the doll from the table, taking
off its hood.
Dark and sweet, Paula’s face looked at
her, the dim mocking smile behind the eyes,
as long ago. It wasn’t a doll. It was a
model of Paula —a perfect model, vivid and
lifelike with Paula’s soft coloring. Even
to the little cock of the head, that touch-
me-not air she had, it was Paula, brought;
into being by patient work under the inspira-
tion of hate and contempt. So much had
gone into it that now, unliooded on the
table, it was a personality. There were two
women in the room—the one the old shape-
less bundle for whose lifelessness Miss Bel-
lairs had wept; and the other Miss Paula
Vibart, vivid with mocking, self-centred life.
It was Miss Vibart on the table who made
the room spring to life, made it tingle with
vitality and old defeated longings. And
murder.
The shadowiness fell from old Angela. She
towered over Paula on the table, her eyes
alight with vigor and confident power. The,
dead baby’s doll —the eyes (snapped in scorn ,
she knew all about the dead baby’s doll
that these fools in the ’Lop slobbered over.
That flashy girl in Lonely's shop to-day,
for instance —she could have smacked her.
Pity, pity—who wanted pity? The old dead ;
room quivered with strong defiant life.
And all the lonely years, the years piling
“P n ™. was old, with nothing-
and sweet. As of old,°the face smiled f*she
had made it to smile—it was likest so. So
often had she seen it, looking up as she
entered.
% * tainyd walls of the room over the
wasii-Jiouse faded. The cupboard-door became
;m easel and the narrow bed a cushioned
divan. By the door a shadowy face leaned,
caressing, over a violin. Old Angela sat
mp in ,• . . . ,
.J-ae old times came storming m, clamorous
with voices and bright mornings and the lift
in every hour. That fool’s face in Lonely’s
s h°P bad started this.
I aula s husky gentle voice came across the
whhW™ Angel “ th ®
A nd her own voice, answering: “Mr.
Crane—Humphrey Crane. Why?”
“Oh, nothing. He looked nice.”
“i^ e n j ce »
Then the golden days that went rushing
by with no work done, while the whole world
was full of his voice. And there had been
so much work done before he came; she had
meant it all so desperately and had slaved
and slaved. No one at the art-school took
her work so seriously.
Paula’s music was not work: it was a
sort of instinct—either you made music or
f ,P aintiag you began like
a Child and worked from the very beginning
to the very end. ••■• °
p a ula was Sydney-born. She, Angela, had
come from Queensland with Aunt Lottie, and
had remained when Aunt Lottie went home,
There was a row at home about her staying
and she was determined to show them that
her work meant something.
So it did. She could see her way out of
the wood and was keeping herself when
Humphrey appeared. It was he who,
radiantly, upset the apple-cart, spilling all
the golden apples so that they covered the
moving world. Every hour, every moment
was an enchantment.
Paula was to go to Europe to finish her
studies in Vienna. For two hardworking
beautiful years they had lived together, music
and painting to inspire them. Now life
crowded clamorously, beautifully in: Angela
and Humphrey were to be married and
Paula was going to Vienna. Fame loomed
rich and beautiful before all of them —
before Humphrey and herself Love stood also,
singing his immortal song!
She went to Brisbane to tell her mother.
Old Angela’s fingers idled again with the
frill under Paula’s chin. The bony fingers
trembled with remembered sorrow, but
presently fell quiet.
Her homecoming was burned in her heart.
No Humphrey to meet her; the still silence
of the studio, the darkness and solitude.
There was something here —something ter-
rible and menacing. She could feel it.
Soon she found it. The room and the
divan and the easel came rushing at her in
a white glare as she lit the light and on the
table saw the something. The square
envelope and Paula's straggling writing.
They had gone—together.
She sat through the night, the letter in
her hand, her unseeing eyes watching the
haggard room, the home of all that work and
love and dear laughter. At dawn she stirred,
unpacked her bag. had a bath—tried to take
hold again in the solitude.
But she didn’t care. She never cared
again.
The days came and went, and little by
little their meaning fell away from her.
They seemed to go past her lonely silence as
aimlessly as dust on a wind travelling from
nowhere to nowhere. She had been thrust,
alone, out of life.
One thing she kept: her scorn and hatred
of Paula. She made the model that Paula
should never be absent from her mind. She
could clasp it to her to remind her spirit of
its vengeance. Whatever life might have
for her she was sure of this. And sure, too,
in the end of Paula and her vengeance. Aus-
tralians always came home ; she would find
Paula yet.
Old Angela smiled. More than 40 years
—but she’d find her yet.
In the beginning, before she had finally
got herself out of that old life, echoes had
come back to her. They had been seen in
Vienna, where her playing had been admired
and praised. News had come from Buda-
pest that royalty had been part of the audi-
ence at her first recital. New r s had come
that she had hurt her hand in a lift accident
in Paris. And then no more news had come.
Paula had vanished somewhere in Europe.
But Australians always came home in the
end. She was safe to find her.
Old Angela roused herself and made a
cup of tea. It was time to go out. She
pulled on Paula’s hooded bonnet. It would
be Miller’s Point this time; ships were
always docking at Miller’s Point.
In Cathedral-street the afternoon shadows
were beginning to lengthen. They joined the
old shapeless shadow that came down the
street now, hugging its doll and greeting
no passer-by. Every day this solitary shadow
became one of their company, haunting the
docks, the Botanic Gardens, the Domain, the
little parks, the pavements outside the Castle-
reagh-street hotels, the shopping ci-owds in
Pitt-street. She turned the corner by Tom
Lonely’s .shop and dx-ifted across the road.
Paula would have been somebody soon:
she had the trick of being somebody, even if
another woman’s man was the only audi-
ence. Of course, she’d be old now, like her-
self. but with a life of comfort and grace
behind her and round her still.
With hex*, Angela, nothing had ever come
off. When the shock of the betrayal had
receded, she had tried to bring herself to
life again, whether it was worth while or
not. But nothing came off; and the years
mounted in loneliness and silence. Soon
there really wasn’t anything worth while.
She knew no one; spoke to no one; peeled
potatoes in the Austral kitchen. And
haunted the city for Paula and the bitter
(Continued on next page.)


k
Hi S
u
HH
WM
I
> '"A
m
; :<:=V
11
/
V
\
Yes! A Genuine
£5/10/- Suiting
to Measure for - -
84/*
Materials to suit the most fastidious! There
are Pure Wool Worsteds in Greys, Fawns,
Navys, etc., latest Tweeds and Pure Indigo
Dye Serges—all guaranteed qualities! Fault-
lessly tailored to your individual measures at
these pre-war prices.
£6/6/- Suits £B/8/- Suits
£4/19/6 £5/19/6
Desk “R,” Murdoch’s, Ltd.,
Box SB7STT, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —Kindly forward me,
without obligation, complete
range of Suiting Patterns of
the above three specials.
Name
Address
Address all Letters to Desk indicated in Coupon
m
SOME
Mm
«Su7r.FORCF Ss SYDNEY
Announcing'
%
The New
WILL CORRY
De Luxe
Steel SHafted
GOLF CLUBS
The predilection for the Steel
Shafted Club is proved both
in England and America.
Since their recent introduc-
tion here, Golfers have
1 realised just what a steel
shaft means .... splen-
did’ advantages it carries to
the zealous player. Con-
forming to the previous
standard set by the “Corry”
Clubs, this new line will be
hailed by the Golfing world
in general.
“Corry” De Luxe Steel
Shafted Hickory Sheath
Matched Woods, Nos. 1
to 3 37/6
“Corry” De Luxe Steel
Shafted Hickory Sheath
Graded Irons, Nos. 1 to
9 35/-
“Corry” De Luxe Steel
Shafted, Gun Metal finish,
Matched Woods, Nos. 1
to 3... 30/-
“Corry” De Luxe Steel
Shafted, Gun Metal finish,
Graded Irons, Nos. 1 to
27/6
Free Lessons by Will Corry to
every -purchaser oj a Set of Clubs!
To put the 7 Golfing tyro on the
right track, Will Corry will give
free of any charge whatever,
demonstration lessons on all angles
of the game.
A Reasonably-Priced
GOLF BAG !
Brown or Blue Canvas, superior
leather fittings, cane supports,
very light, a most serviceable
bag, 4£in 15/6
lB/6
SPECIAL
BEGINNER'S SETS
Comprising Driver, Mashie, Mid
Iron, Putter, Two Golf Balls and
Tan Canvas Bag, together with
copy of latest Rules of Golf.
Price, complete . . 49/6
( Carriage Paid on Golf Material.)
All Letters to Box 188 , P. 0.,
Uaymarket , Sydney.
Mick§immons
ltd.,
HEADQUARTERS: 720 G, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
•‘The Leaders in Outdoor Sport and Home
Entertainment."
triumph of her revenge. That would come
ott. If only to pay for the years.
Some more weekly orders and some more
of the dust and summer had gone their ways
when the sudden shower drove old Angela
into the shelter in the Botanic Gardens.
There was nobody there but a derelict old
woman and a couple of children and their
nurse, so that Angela could feel that she
was still virtually alone. The sharp, heavy
shower was soon over, and the children and
the nuilse went out into the freshened
Gardens. Angela sat on in the quiet; the
other old derelict didn’t matter, and Angela
was tired.
Paula would always make sure that she
had the best of everything; you couldn’t
quite see how she managed it, because she
was so quick; all you were sure of was
that she always got it. But that didn’t
matter; Australians might be having the
best of everything all over the world, but
they always came home. Watching the
glistening Gardens through the doorway,
Angela remembered this for the ten-thou-
sandth time, comforting herself with it. It
couldn’t be long now. They were old ; there
wasn’t much of life left.
Half-conscious that her thoughts had wan-
dered, she turned back to the twilight of the
shelter, clasping Paula more firmly to her.
It was not that she was really so very tired;
she only imagined that she was, sometimes,
and there was no one to tell. Other people
had as much and' more to bear in solitude,
she knew; most people really lived in soli-
tude, she suspected. Only——■
. She became conscious that the other old
woman was leaning forward in her. seat and
staring at her across the table. Old and very
shabby, shapeless. Her faded eyes were
full of wonder and a half-wistful surprise.
But she was speaking
“Don’t you remember”.... A ghost of
, husky sweetness in the frail voice made
catch, her breath. “It’s Paula!”
The wide-open eyes in the old white face
looked pleadingly across the table at her.
“Don’t you remember, Angela?” the old
sweet voice asked again.
Angela sat numb and bewildered. This....
Paula ! Shabby and vague—a nothing like
•herself ! Less than herself.
“It is you, isn’t it, Angela?”
“Yes,” she heard herself whispering.
The shabby, vague old woman glowed.
•“How wonderful,” she sighed, “to meet
anyone from the old times ! Why, Angela, it
must be 40 years! Think of it. How won-
derful !”
Silent and dismayed Angela tried to grasp
it, while Paula exclaimed again at the amaz-
ing meeting. H’er delight flowed over Angela’s
stunned astonishment; and gradually Angela
realised that she was listening as much to
the tones of her voice as to her broken
exclamatory sentences. There was a warmth
in the voice though it was frail and thin.
“.... It was my hand in Paris, you know.
It was crushed —my left hand. And I was
very ill, very ill. My memory went; and
for months I wasn’t —I wasn’t myself. You
see, when I was well I couldn’t play and I
couldn’t teach. And I was all alone. So
I came home.”
Paula paused. She was the old Paula, in the
centre of the stage. As of old, Angela was
listening. But Paula pointed to the doll in
Angela’s arm, and Angela ceased to listen.
“What’s that?” Paula asked, peering at it.
A fire leapt into Angela’s eyes as she
put the model on the table with a curt, hard
laugh. The moment was at hand. A terri-
fied light flickered in Paula eyes and Angela
laughed again. “No. I’m not mad,” she
said, tearing the hood off the model. “Don’t
be afraid. Here— this is what it is!”
Paula’s cry of admiration filled the shelter.
“Oh, how beautiful! What a lovely head!
But what—who is it?” Old Paula peered at
it over 40 years. “I seem” Her anima-
tion suddenly flagged and she turned wist-
fully to Angela. “What is it, Angela?”
“You should know.”
“I? Why?” Paula seemed suddenly to
become vaguer and more shadowy—even more
shapeless and old in a moment.
“Look. Can’t you see it’s yourself?”
Paula came back to life. “Did I ever look
like that?” she murmured, a half-smile touch-
ing her lips. “Yes. I can. see it now.” For
a moment she looked at the model in silence,
the little smile still hovering at her mouth
and a faint flush rising in her cheeks. “Yes.
I can see it now. And you made it, of
course ! Fancy your carrying it about with
you like this ! You used to be very fond
of me, Angela, usen’t you?”
Angela wavered. It was all dismay and
wonder, tliis. Here was Paula, the same
young Paula grown old, with her tricks and
her graces, her need of mothering, her charm.
Humphrey flickered into her mind. It was
40 years ago. .. . Gently and half idly she
put the hood on the doll again and turned to
Paula’s animated face.
“Do you remember, Angela”—how the
husky voice kept its life! —“that apricot
muslin I wore the night I played at Parra-
matta at the Stanburys, and Mr. Medway
said he couldn’t hear my music for looking
at me?”
“I remember,” Angela said.
“And the stupid things that Courtney man
used to write in the ‘Herald’?”
Angela listened a little longer, an idea
forming vaguely in her mind. Presently
she interrupted.
“You’re thin, Paula,” she said.
Paula laughed and cocked her head.
“Starvation, my dear,” she said, “sheer star-
vation. My one useful hand won’t cook —you
need two for that. And the woman I board
with is the world’s vilest cook. So I waste
away. I tell myself every month that I shall
have to find another room. But I’m lazy,
and I don’t do it.”
“There’s a large room just vacant in the
house I’m living in.” Paula glanced inter-
rogatively at -her. “I was wondering if we
could share it. I’m a good cook.”
“But that would be lovely,” Paula ex-
claimed. “Of course. Let’s do it. It will
be like old times. Did you ever hear what
became of that Alma girl—l forget her other
name—the girl with the queer Spanish
eyes?”
“We could go and see the room now,”
Angela said keeping her up to it, as of old.
“Yes. Let’s. And we can talk on the
way. Is it far?”
“No, not far.”
Paula stood up and smiled at her. “Come
on then, Angela., my dear. Let’s go home.”
She picked up the model with her ungloved
hand. “May I carry Me?” she asked.
“Yes, do.” Angela smiled also over the
dead 40 years. “I don’t —don’t need her
now.”
The Vigil.
Since the moon rides high, and its light
shines down
Through the wind-tossed leaves and houghs,
Let us quit the township, and take the track
That leads to the Haunted House.
’Twas built of weatherboard long ago,
And nestles beneath a ridge
On a grassy slope that ends at a creek,
Spanned o’er by a wooden bridge.
As the House hy the Creek, or the H'aunted
House,
’Tis known to the countryside,
And none go there on a night like this
Since the little woman died.
Long, long ago, so the story runs—
For its truth I make no claim—
To live and love ’neath its shingled roof
To that house with her man she came.
And there, for a while, their young love
throve,
As blows and blushes a rose,
Till something happened to rift the lute,
And what it was no one knows.
Though just why they parted no tongue can
tell,
Yet this is a truth well known —
That some have a pride that is stronger than
love,
And some have a will of their own.
Of the man ’tis said that one moonlit night
He took to the rover’s track,
And rode away from the Haunted House,
And never a look threw back.
And after they parted on that lit night
With never a smile or kiss, !
Though none can tell you what happened
to him,
What happened to her was this.
On all moonlit nights on a window seat,
When silent was slope and ridge,
She’d sit and keep her eyes on the track
That led to the wooden bridge.
For a score of years it was thus she sat,
By her window opened wide;
But what she watched for she never told
To the folk of the countryside.
And she died at length on that window-seat,
When a score of years had passed.
* * * *
Let us go to her house and tell her ghost
That he loved her unto the last.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Babylon.
When, in a graveyard, sunk in the grasses
One reads on a slab of weathered stone
A sonorous name whose spell surpasses
(Strangely) known names, and one stands
alone
Saying it over within, and catching
Mind-flashes of calm eyes unbeheld
While the hands of thought—like a child’s
—are snatching
At a strong, strange, dead hand: so bc-
spelled
Am I by a name the dust has covered.
Babylon! Babylon, lord of power,
How shall your white, strong flanks be
discovered,
Your brow delight at the day-star’s hour?
Is the golden cord of your sinews broken?
No! Ah, no! On your arms the bands
Of blue enamel are clamped as a token
You grasp and hold with a bridegroom’s
hands.
Bid me to enter your pleasant places
Where the apple blooms, and its snow in
spring
Spreads ice-honey veils before the faces
Of bird-winged lion and bull-hoofed king.
The guardian dragons have turquoise breast-
plates ;
The holy, terraced, green-clothed hill
Leads where a maid and a god are rest-
mates —
On his high, bright couch she awaits his will.
(For every night when the lions lightly,
Loosed by the priests, walk ivory floors
That, sprinkled with perfumes, glimmer
whitely
Behind Baal’s sonorous golden doors,’
A woman of Babylon, rich in tresses,
Is laid on the lofty golden bed.
And while the invisible presence blesses
The temple lions about her tread.)
Let your strong right hand be under my
head —
More strong than the god’s—at rise of moon ;
The peacocks have flown, the antelopes fled,
The wizards pass in their snake-skin slioon.
But your ringed left hand does embrace me
now, , ... -
And temple-dust in the censer thrown
Scatters the genii. Oh, arrogant .brow,
Imperial lips that mute my own"!
Babylon ! Babylon, lord of power,
See, day returns, and the antelope
And the palace peacock.... Ah, > strange the
hour! v
The crumbled brick in a long, long slope
Is wan as the dust of a time-slain god,
And only the dawn-wind walks the plain.
Where lion, Baal’s bride and great bride-
groom trod
Weathered, name-graven stones remain.
N.S.W.
DULCIE DEAMER.


;;;
]
l
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 41 4.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.,
Queensland Agents—HOßMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
fdgfdg
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., XiTD., Adelaide, S.A.
“THE AGE”
Established 185 4.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you neglect to use “The Age” for adver-
tising, you miss one of the most vital features
in your Victorian campaign, and no advertiser
who is spending large sums to produce,
advertise and sell an article can afford to
take that risk.
“THE AGE”
has over 122,000 daily subscribers who have
confidence in their chosen publication, and
because it, is a newspaper that not, only goes
into the home but reaches the very heart of
the household, the advertiser who places his
products or service on record in its columns
is assured of dependable reader value.
“The Age” publishes over 1,000,000
advertisements annually.
Audited Daily net circulation
122,501.
Rates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
47 Fleet Street, London.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
%
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and ’
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
3C Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
Che mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
(Established 1854)
The “Mercury” is the only Metro-
politan Newspaper in the State.
Its news services, articles, typo-
graphy are unexcelled in Australia.
THE “MERCURY” COVERS
TASMANIA
And its circulation exceeds the
combined figures of the dailies in
Tasmania. Delivered by fast motor-
cars, it reaches Launceston (121
miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before break-
fast.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBIiISHKIiS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
80 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
Cbe fldoertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody,
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population-
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited,
All the News and all
the Advertisements .
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price l id.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P, THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
’’ Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E,C. 4.
Experimenting!
How much a year do
you waste in unneces-
sary experiments?
Cut waste and
advertise with a
“Result Rringer.”
“The
Telegraph ”
({Brisbane)
Has proved itself over
58 years a good “Result
Bringer” for all adver-
tisers.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Sydney Representative:
N. L. ROBERTS,
Country Press Co-op. Co. of Aust.. Ltd.,
Barrack Street, Sydney.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Ita up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
SSK#
Or
9'
sa^Aaao
DULViOIDf
iL/f ANY brilliant and accomplished
people have had grey eyes; and
grey eyes are said to denote a steady,
resourceful and determined character.
Eyes tell about health as well. If the
whites have lost their brightness and
are dull and yelloiV'tinged , it means
you are constipated; that beauty and
health are being impaired by waste
and poisons, which are spreading all
over your system. The best remedy
Is the famous vegetable laxative —
Beecham’s Pills. One at night gently
, cleanses the system. Buy a box
\ to-day.
Worth a Guinea a BoXi
fdg
The Centre of Tasmania’s
Progress and Prosperity.
“THE EXAMINER'* is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricul-
tural, Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER” has been published in Launceston
for 87 years, - and is still the family newspaper of
Northern Tasmania.
information, copies, advertising
Evening
W. R. Rolph & Sons'Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Patterson Street,
Launceston.
426 National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Streiet, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
726 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
s*j%ulUtCn
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin**
to its subscribers
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 2-52188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 3 months from
for which I enclose £ .......
NAME .
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
<K
«i' c
s e ‘
c°
,6V
*'vt* c
.«o
& 6
v>°
.• • <v
. • *'
. • a \ aP, %& c# ’
0/$
# S ’


“Here you are, Sir!
Resch’s Pilsener . . . in the
new, long bottle, of course.
Of the pilsener I serve, it is
the lightest and best,”
is®
*
■v
m
<r
if
R£S
X:
pus
\
r
h
,- .
srr
RESCH’S
PI LSEMER
—THE DRINK A MAN REMEMBERS
