

i
L 2
M
■-
MW
ipx
mim
vi \ \ ) I '-S-WS
I
T CHRISTMAS, “Look
your best in an Akubra”!
The hat you favor, in point of
style and color, is easily
selected from the wide
and varied Akubra range.
BgjOHCTSgj
Give your men friends
Akubras for Christmas
presents Any man is pleased
to receive a nice, new hat;
particularly when it looks
and wears like an Akubra,
High Quality
25/-
AKUBRA
Super Quality
35/-
The Bulletin
tv eanesaay f o, 19JU*
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Special Christmasflumfaet.


GIVE BOOK PRESENTS.
72-page “XMAS CATALOGUE” Now Ready.
Posted Free Anywhere, on Request.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
G.P.O. Box 1521 DD.
Learn
Story Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address . i
S.B. 315
yuYSAGHT’
•. ;
o
3
R
AUSTRALIA
DON’T Increase our Overseas Debt
Buy Australian-made goods. Create employ-
ment. Build up a prosperous contented, big
population. Cut down imports. By using
Lysaght’s Galvanized Iron you get the world s
best, and every penny of the cost remains m
Australia.
LYSAGHT’S
Galvanized Iron
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE C! A f T d^Wi
i®|JS H
I s
A A
H 5 x
Ww\\\
V /
/
UNEXPECTED
GUESTS
Host Holbrook Says:
“A few drops
of my Worcest-
ershire Sauce
served with the
cold joint en-
sure an appetis-
ing meal for the
un expected
guests.”
eP HA '*
% " EED
HERE'S
M
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next tfme, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
SCPCUI&ris CMEXICAN)
Walnut §£bJm,
THE GREY**
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (.)/6), 6d. being postage.
dOttak
fP
People of 60 Countries
Realize the Pure Soothing
Qualities to he Found in
Cuticura Talcum
Delicately medicated, it absorbs
perspiration and is cooling and
refreshing. Ideal for Baby after
the bath, as a finishing touch to
Mother’s toilet and for Father
after shaving.
Talcum la. 3d. Soap la. Ointment la. and 2a.
ie each free.
Address: R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S. W,
Cuticura Shaving Stick la. 6d.
.Cuticura
TALCUM
y ii
Not
golf
even
with Its violent movements of the
arms can alter the unfailing accuracy
of an Omega watch.
Because of its precision and sturdi*
ness you will find an Omega on the
wrist or in the pocket of the world's
most famous sportsmen.
Omega
EX ACT TIME F
K LIFE
The Red Page
Lawson, As He Knew Himself
The following extracts are taken from
a fragment of autobiography written by
Henry Lawson. A paraphrase, with
Little resemblance to the original,
appeared long ago in the “Lone Hand,”
but this is the first time Lawson’s own
account of his early life has been pub-
lished. It cannot be given in full, but
the excerpts have been made with the
objeot of showing how Australia’s great-
est writer saw himself, and the manner
of life he led } and where he. lived up
till his early twenties, when the MS.
abruptly ends. Lawson’s spelling has
been followed throughout. A second
and final instalment will be published
in the New Year number {Dec. 81).
The autobiography, owned by one who
■ has played an important part in the
advancing of Australian literature, may
be published in complete form in the
coming year.
■I had a dreamy recollection of the place
as a hut; some of my people said it was
a tent, on a good frame—for Father was a
carpenter, but Mother tells me that he built
a little bark room in front, lined with
scnm” papered with newspapers, with a
whitewashed floor with mats, a fireplace in
front by the side of the door, and a glass
door!—relic of the rush, I suppose. The
tent was the same that I was born in on
the Grenfel goldfield, some three yearn
before, and had been brought back to
Pipeclay.
There was a tree in front of the tent—
or hut—a blue-gum, I think, and I know
it had a forked trunk; and on the ground
between the tree and the.hut had stood a
big bark public-house, one of seven in the
gully in the palmy days of Pipeclay. Some
of the postholes were there yet, and I
used to fall into them, until father filled
th®m up. Pipeclay had petered out before
my people went with the-rush to Grenfel.
Pipeclay was a stoney barren ridge, two
little gullies full of digger holes caving in,
a little brown flat, a few tumble-down
haunted huts, an old farm or two on the
outskirts, blue-grey scrub, Scotch thistles,
prickly-pears, Bathurst burrs, <ank weeds,
goats and utter dreariness and desolation.
But the hills were still blue in the distance.
I took screaming fits, they said, and would
he down and roll out of the tent, through
the room and across the flat till I was tired;
then I’d sleep. But this was before I
beoame conscious of the World.
That tree haunted my early childhood.
I had a childish dread that it would fall on
the tent. I felt sure it would fall some
day. Perhaps I looked up, and the white
clouds flying over made the top of the tree
seem to move. The tent and the tree are
the first things I remember
There was Father and Mother and a baby
brother, but I seemed to come into the
world alone—they came into my" life later
on. Father said that I suggested throwing
.the baby down a digger’s hole, or drowning
him, like a surplus kitten. They say I got
a tin of jam one day and obstinately
denied it, though my mouth, hands and
pinny were covered with jam; which was
strange, for I was painfully and unhappily
consciehcous and truthful for many long
years., .j.
Grandfather had a bullock team and a
sawpit. Granny lived in an old weather-
board place that had been a public-house,
about a hundred yards further along in the
W orld. I used to go to Grannie’s and get
coffee. I like coffee. One day she told me
that the blacks had come and drank up
all the coffee, and I didn’t like the blacks
after that. I don’t know that the old lady
had any special points about her, except
her nose and chin, but I was extremely
fond of her untiTthe day she died. When
I was about four and my brother two we
had a song about Aunty—Aunty Phoebe I
think it was—that Mother had taught us.
It.was a song calling Aunty to come. Some-
times Mother would tell us that if we sang
that song Aunty would come, and we’d sing
it, and sure* enough she’d come while we
were singing. it, and rush in and kiss us.
We thought it very wonderful.
Then a tremendous thing happened.
Father built a two-roomed slab and bark
hut' over on the flat on the other side of the
gully—and on the other side of the World
as it was then; and Grandfather came with
a load of stringv-bark slabs, and stringy-
bark poles for a kitchen. And Granny and
the rest-were going to Mudgee (about five
miles, away) or to some other place away
out of, the World. The dining-room had a
good pine floor, and there were two dogs,
and a church with a double tower, and a
s'ehtry on the mantleshelf, and the sofa tick
had a holland cover—l remember this
because we weren’t allowed to get on to it.
* * * *
But we didn’t seem tQ live in the new
bouse any time before a more tremendous
thing happened. We were in a cart with
bedding and a goat and a cat in a basket,
and fowls in a box, and there were great
trees all along, and teams with loads of
bark and rafters, and tables upside down
with bedding and things between the legs,
and buckets and pots hanging round, and
gold cradles, gold dishes, windlas, bales
and picks and shovels; and there were more
drays and carts and children and women
and goats—some tied behind the carts; and
men and horses and men walking. All the
world was shifting as fast as ever it could.
tt Gulgong, the last of the great alluvial or
poor man’s” rushes, had broken out. And
it sfeemed no time, but it must have been
months, and may have been a year or so,
before a still greater thing than ever hap-
pened. Father’s party had bottomed on
payable gold, and we went with mother and
some aunts on a trip to Sydney. We saw
Grandfather at Mudgee—he was up with
one of his teams I suppose; it was in a
public-house and Grandfather was singing
songs
I remember little of Sydney, except that
w T e stayed at a place in Castlereagh-street
and the woman’s name was Mrs. Kelly.
We must have picniced at Manly Beach or
somewhere, for we had a picture at home of
a Newfoundland dog with the sea behind
him, and that picture meant Sydney to me
for a long time afterwards
Mrs. Kelt’s little boy taught us to say.
“Ally-looyer! I hardly knew yer!” I had a
new suit of velveteen knickerbockers, but
I don’t remember what Charlie had. One
day we got out in the street and the door
shut behind us, and we got frightened, and
lost, and knocked and hammered at the
wrong door, and it opened and we went
into the wrong house. It was aweful, but
they didn’t hurt us. The girls took us up
in their arms and kissed us and gave us
cake, and one of them took us home. I
remember that Mrs. Kelly was very angiy
about it, because, she said, it was a bad
house; but we couldn’t see anything bad
about, it—they might have kept us there, or
killed us or given us to a policeman; we
thought it w’as a good house ’
Then the hut at Gulgong, and Father
had killed a pig. Mother asked us if we
knew him again, and I said to him, “Ally-
looyer—l hardly knew yer, Father!” And
Father seemed surprised.
He was always working, or going some-
where with an axe or pick and shovel 01
his shoulder, and coming home late,
remember watching for the glint of his white
moles in the dusk, and sometimes following
him out again after tea, when it was moon
light, and he went a little way with the
axe on his shoulder to split firewood fron
a log
Strange to say there were periods during
my childhood when I seemed to live alone
when Mother and brothers, but not so
often Father, seemed to go completely oir;
of my life As I grew, the feeling of
lonliness &nd the desire to be alone en
creased
When I was about six I fell in love with
an elderly married lady who kept a lolly-
shop next door to Aunt Phoebe’s. Her hus
band was away and she seemed lonly. She
was forty or fifty and had moles and
moustarsh. I remember I went into hei
shop one day, to buy lollies: she was'busy
sewing, and she was worried, and she saic
“Oh bother!” and it hurt me so much that
I cried....
There was a pretty woman living in a hut
near us, who used to sing “Love Amongst
the Rowses” and have a black eye. I said
1 wanted to go and fight her husband. ' But
perhaps she loved him. About this time :
used to tell people that I was going on foi
seven.
* * * *
They said that Gulgong was done, and
one day Mother and Father packed up al:
the things. Next morning we were waked
early; there was a dray at the door and we
heard a great scraping overhead. Suddenly
we saw the sky and next moment were
nearly blinded by a shower of pungent
stringy-bark dust. Father was taking off
the roof of the hut—for we carried the
house with us in those days....
We were back at Pipeclay again The
tent and the tree were gone.... But the
tent and the tree still stand', in a sort of
strange, unearthly half-light—sadder than
anj l - twilight I know of, ever so far away
back there at the other end of the past.
I don’t want to write a bitter line, if I
can help it, except it be against my later
self. I want to gather all the best things I
can remember and put them in this book;
and it will be none the less true. Perhaps
it will be the truest I ever wrote.
Shortly after we returned to Pipeclay my
brother Peter was born I had two pounds
ten [in a moneybox] and I was given to
understand that it went to buy Peter. He
was bought from a Chinaman—not the vege-
table variety, but the sort that used to
come round with boxes. and drapery and
fancy goods slung on their poles.. I didn’t
think that Peter was worth two pounds ten
as a baby, and couldn’t see why I should
be called upon to pay for him. I thought
it very unjust and brooded over it a bit.
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —not an unattainable ideal, but an established fact at Anthony Horderns’.
Anthony Horderns'
(THE SENIOR STORE),
offer
the Finest Stainless Cutlery
a t
More than 33s 0 /» Reduction!
For years the name of R. F. Mosley & Co., Limited, the famous Sheffield
Cutlers, has been synonymous with fine quality Cutlery. We are now offer-
ing 10 numbers of their best knives to clear at more than 33 1-3 per cent, reduc-
tion. They are branded “Rusnorstain”—Mosley’s trade-name for their super
quality goods. Take immediate advantage of this offer, for it is not possible to
purchase these lines at these prices elsewhere in Australia, and they may never
again be repeated.
26/-, Reduced to 16/6
R6o2—Table Knives, with shaped blades
—-highest grade mirror finish. With round
xylonite handles. Price, per half doz., 26/-
Reduced to, half doz. 16/6
Dessert Knives to match, per half doz., 24/-
'Now, half doz. 14/6
26/-, Reduced to 16/6
R6os—Table Knives, with straight blades,
finest mirror finish. Round xylonite handles.
Price, per half doz 26/-
Reduced to, half doz 16/6
Dessert Knives to match 24/-
Now, half doz 14/6
25/-, Reduced to 16/-
R6OB—A dignified, straight-bladed knife,
with rounded xylonite handles. The ideal
dinner knife. Price, per half doz. . . 25/-
Reduced to, half doz. 16/-
Dessert knives to match 22/6
Now, half doz 14/-
27/6, Reduced to 17/6
R6o3—Table Knives, with shaped blades—
highest grade mirror finish. With round
xylonite handles. Price, half doz. . . 27/6
Reduced to, half doz. . . . • 17/6
Dessert Knives to match 25/-
Now, half doz ... . ’. • 15/-
27/6, Reduced to 17/6
R6O6—A particularly attractive knife with
straight blades—mirror finish. Fine quality
xylonite handles. Price, half doz. . . 2 7/6
Reduced to, half doz 17/6
Dessert Knives to match 25/-
Now, half doz 15/-
29/-, Reduced to 19/-
R6o9—An especially fine type of mirror
finished shaped-bladed Knife, with rounded
xylonite handle. Price, per half doz., 29/-
Reduced to, half doz 19/-
Dessert Knives to match 26/6
Now, half doz 17/-
( Cutlery, First Floor. Carriage Paid.)
25/-, Reduced to 16/-
R6o4—Table Knives, finest mirror finished,
shaped blades, and round Xylonite handles.
Price, half doz 25/-
Reduced to, half doz 167-
Dessert Knives to match . 22/6
Now, half doz 14/-
26/-, Reduced to 16/6
R6o7—'Another attractive knife, with
shaped blades—mirror finished. Rounded
xylonite handles. Price, per half doz., 26/-
Reduced to, half doz 16/6
Dessert Knives to match 247-
Now, half doz. . 14/6
22/6, Reduced to 15/-
R6lO—A low-priced Table Knife, with
glazed finished, straight blades and square
xylonite handles. Price, per half doz., 22/6
Reduced to, half doz 157-
Dessert Knives to match 20/-
Now, half doz 12/6
Let Our “D.P.SHeIp You.
It would be a pity to miss this wonderful opportunity because it may be
inconvenient to pay cash. Use our Deposit-Purchase System-—you pay a
deposit on the knives you require—they are put by for you, and on com-
pletion of payments at your convenience they are delivered in the usual way.
It costs no extra.
fs
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address.
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


COMMONWEALTH CONVERSION
AND REDEMPTION LOAN
6 Per Cent, for 2 Years
5 i/i Per Cent, for 10 Years
5 ’ Per Cent, for 20 Years
AS A MATTER OF HONOR—
Australia must raise £28,000,000 by December 15. This amount is
an obligation that must be met and met punctually in order that our
credit abroad and our own self-respect may be maintained.
AS A MATTER OF SANE, SOUND BUSINESS—
Australians should provide this amount. The Loan offers gilt-edged
security and a good rate of interest over various periods, while Bonds
are a most convenient form of security. Either Stock or Bonds will be
accepted in payment of Commonwealth Estate Duty.
BUY A BOND OF HONOR
J. A. LYONS, Acting Treasurer.
Commonwealth Treasury, Canberra.
Australian-made Pumps
sfd
sfd
This is one of the best Hand Pumps procurable.
Suitable for general pumping, spraying, filling
tanks, fire-fighting, etc.
Brass valve seats are fitted,- which are, of course,
far superior to the common iron seat fitted to
other pumps.
Because of the Cog-geared Head, the “Acme"
requires one-third less manual labor to work it.
Will give 2000 gallons per hour, and is fitted
for 2in. pipes.
Prices on application.
Send for this!
Our Pump Catalogue shows many types of Hand- and
Power-driven Pumps designed for Agricultural and
Industrial use.
Full particulars of each type are given, together with
prices and capacities.
Details of piping, fittings, Spray Pumps, etc., also
shown.
Fill in and send this coupon now.
Please send me your Pump Catalogue,
Post FREE.
Name
Address
“Acme”
Hand Pump
Famous
“MACSON
Double-
acting
Piston
Pump.
M
■
9 ' '
IlSlMSftP*
“Macson”
Pumps
can be
supplied
coupled direct
to electric
motor or
engine.
A splendid pump for general water-supply work.
Has proved very useful on farms, stations and in factories.
In making this pump at our own works, we embodied several exclusive
features which renders the “Macson” superior to all other pumps of a
similar type.
The cylinder is fitted with an exceptionally heavy brass liner which is
practically everlasting. To prevent leaking or blowing out at the cylinder
head, it and the cylinder casing is cast in one piece.
Obtainable in five sizes,- giving outputs of 424 galls, to 35:30 galls, per
hour at 250 R.P.M. Sizes are for lj-inch to 3-inch piping.
Prices on application.
M^PKersoiTs)
Proprietary Limited
“DEPENDABLE GOODS SINCE 1860.”
“RAPID” Centrifugal Pumps
are noted for their efficiency and
low running costs.
fs
Centrifugal Piimps are used where large quantities of
water are required, pressure being a secondary consideration.
“Rapid” Centrifugal Pumps are of a most modern design
and are very economical to run.
The type illustrated above is a Single Stage, for heads
up to 50 feet.
We manufacture Two-Stage and Multi-Stage Pumps for
greater heads.
The bowl of “Rapid” Pumps can be swivelled to any
angle, so that the cost of pipe bends is reduced to the
minimum.
For pumping acids and chemicals we make pumps of
suitable metal to withstand the action.
Made in several sizes: For lin. pipes (1200 galls, per
hour) up to 6in. pipes (36,000 galls, per hour), and
larger if required.
If desired, can be supplied fitted to Electric Motor or
Engine.
Prices and particulars on request.
Have you
had our
General
Catalogue?
Copies on
application.
We Carry Large Stocks of
1 Piping and Fittings, Pipe
Tools, Farmers’ Tools and
Tools for Orchardists, Saw-
millers, Garages, Motorists,
Plumbers, Tinsmiths,
Engineers, Woodworkers,
Ironfounders, Mines, etc.
582-592 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE
51-65 BATHURST STREET SYDNEY
116-130 WAYMOUTH STREET .... ADELAIDE
532 MURRAY STREET • PERTH


[The second and final instalment
of Henry Lawson’s Autobiography
will appear in the New Year Number,
December 31.]
“Try to sink ” when you go
swimming in Great
Salt Lake.
tSi.
ypgp
m
mm
m
*
m
f/w
mm
■-y Xn-:... *
v^»wx;:v/x«
i
•c 4
HI!
m
m
■
S 3- v ...
x? V > ' '■?*“
f \
m
x-amm.
mm
In this water
you can’t sink
Great Salt Lake is on your way
to England across America
gf||NE of the interesting
” spectacles of America
is the inland sea known as
Great Salt Lake. So dense
is the water with salt that
you cannot sink in it!
Modern engineering has
built a railway over the
waves and you ride
smoothly across Great Salt
Lake in your holiday jour-
ney across America.
Would you like an Ameri-
can itinerary for your next
holiday trip? Without
charge, the new American
Railways Travel and Infor-
mation Bureau of the Mat-
son Line will gladly fur-
nish complete details. You
can see the National Parks
and skyscraping cities at
moderate cost. Ask for
free illustrated literature.
Write to Dept. M3O,
AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL
and INFORMATION RITREAU
12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
My sense of injustice was always very
keen....
Log Paddock had broken out, opposite
the old Pipeclay rush, on the old, levci,
creek and river frontage land.... Down at
the fa.r corner of the other end of log
paddock the old farmers had built a chapel.
(See “Shall We Gather at the River?”:
Children of the Bush.) They got a school-
teacher to camp there and paid him six-
pence or a shilling ahead for the children.
Wo went there first, in charge of some elder
children.... I remember little or nothing of
that school, except great spitting and hard
rubbing of slates.
About this time there was an incident
vvhich left a very painful impression on my
mind for years. We had a quince-tree at
our place and were strictly forbidden to
touch the fruit, which was not ripe at the
time. One day my brother Charlie pulled
a quince, and persuaded me to have a bite.
I was always very fond of quinces. . I
believe he gave me the bite out of pure
good nature, but the theft was detected—
there were few quinces on that tree—and
Charlie blurted out in terror that I had
taken a bite anyhow. I was stung by a
sense of injustice and my indignation was
roused, for I reckoned that he had only
persuaded me to have a bite for fear I
might tell on him—or that he wanted me
to share the punishment in case of detec-
tion .... I denied that I had touched the
quince at all. Charlie stuck to it, I was
believed because I had always been truth-
ful, and he was severely thrashed. He
begged me to confess and save him
(t‘Henry, you know you did it! You know
gou did it”), but—l don’t know what devil
possessed me—save that I was horrified
that I had told such a lie and in terror lest
it; should be found out and I branded as
a liar—but I stuck to the lie and he to the
truth, and he got a second dose and was
sent supperless to bed. It was a miserable
night and a miserable week for me
Months after I confessed. They didn’t thrash
me; better if they had and had done with it.
I had an idea that I had lived before,
and had grown up to be a man and had
grown old and died. I confided in Father,
and these ideas seemed to trouble him a lot.
I slept in a cot beside the bed, and I used to
hold his horny hand until I went to sleep.
* * * *
Father and a few others petitioned for a
provisional school at Pipeclay—it was
Eurunderee now, the black name had been
restored. Father built the school. It was
af bark. It was furnished with odds and
ends thrown out of the public school in
Mudgee, when the public school got new
desks, stools and things. Father made the
blackboards and easels and mended the
ricketty furniture A selector, an Irish-
man named John A. Tierney, was selected
as schoolmaster. He had served in some
capacity in the Army in Africa, a pay-
master or something.
It was Robinson Crusoe, by the way, who
taught us to read. Mother got a Robinson
Crusoe and used to read to us of evenings,
and when she’d get tired and leave off at
thrilling places, we’d get the book and try
to spell our way ahead. By the time Robin-
son Crusoe was finished we could go back
and read the book through from beginning
to end. I wonder if Defoe had any influ-
ence on my style? Speaking of books, I
was presented, at school break up, with a
ctopy of a book called “Self Taught Men,”
for “General proficiency.” But I wasn’t a
self-taught man; the world taught me—
I wish it had taught me common sense and
the business side of my trade.
A favorite fad of the masters was that the
school, being built of old material and
standing on an exposed siding, might be
blown down at any moment, and he trained
the children to dive under the desks at i
given signal so that they might have a
chance of escaping the falling beams and
rafters when the crash came These
things pleased Father when he heard them,
for he didn’t build things to.come down.
Amongst the scholars was a black
gohanna. He lived in a dead hollow tree
near the school and was under the master’s
immediate protection. On summer days
he’d lay along a beam over the girls’ seats,
and improve his mind a little, and dose a
lot. The drone of the school seemed good
for his nerves. They say a black gohanna
haunted the tent I was born in, and I
remember one in the house on the flat—l
used to see the impression of his toes on
the calico ceiling when he slithered along
overhead.
The master used to spell anxiety with a
“c,” i.e., anxciety, and many other words
to match. I spelled Friday with a “y” for
many years, was always in doubt as to
whether the “i” or the “e” came in words
like recieve or believe Mr. Archibald
said I used to be a whale on spelling, and
some of my early copy should be interest-
ing reading. A comp, who used to work
up on the “Boomerang” used to complain
that iny spelling was demoralising him. It
worried me a great deal. I was veiy sensi-
tive about it; I’m not now—not a little bit
—I leave it to the comps.
* * * *
Until I was seventeen and went to a night
school in Sydney, I knew of no monarch of
England other than Queen Victoria—except
for a very vague idea of King William the
Fourth.
I shared the average healthy boy’s aver-
sion to school; in fact it developed into a
positive dread.... Yet I was a “show
scholar” or “model pupil” as the master
put it. There were two of us, and I can’t
decide now* whether we were the makings of
noble men or simply little involuntary and
unconscious sneaks, but am rather enclined
to the latter opinion.
I was extremely, painfully sensitive, and
almost, if not quite, developed religious
mania at one time (when I was about 14).
The Mother was very highly strung and
had religious spells. (We went to the other
extreme later on in Sydney, during the free-
thought craze of the ’Eighties, and became
freethinkers—or thought we did.) Father
always professed to be a freethinker, and
he studied the Bible. He was one of the
hardest working, kindest-hearted men I ever
knew. I have known him, after a hard
day’s work, to sit up all night watching
a dying neighbor’s child.
I began to be a lonely, unhappy boy and to
be considered a little mad, or at least idiotic,
by some—my relatives included. My aunts
said it was a pity I hadn’t been born a girl.
Father built a new sawn-timber hard-
wood house on the flat, with a galvanised
iron roof and a brick chimney, which last
was the envy of neighbors who had only
slab and clay chimneys.
* * * *
When I was nine years old there hap-
pened a thing which was to cloud my whole
life, to drive me into myself, and to be,
perhaps, in a great measure responsible for
my writing. I remember we children were
playing in the dust one evening, and all that
night I had an excruciating earache and was
unspeakably sick on my stomach. Father
kept giving me butter and sugar, “to bring
it up,” which it eventually did. It was
the first and last time I had the earache.
Next day I was noticeably deaf and re-
mained slightly so till I was fourteen, when
I became as deaf as I am now.
* * * *
I don’t know whether Father took up the
selection because he' had a liking for farm-
ing and believed in the chances or because
the ground was On an old goldfield and he
was a digger.... It was hopeless—only a
life time of incessant bullocking might have
made a farm of the place The “cattle”
were a few weedy stunted cows—one of
them barren—and some steers, and were
always straying.... When we got new cows
one or two of them would be sure to fall
down a digger’s hole if we didn’t watch
sharp.... Then the cry of “Cow in a hole”
(it was “Man in a hole!” once or twice),
and we’d run in all directions and scare
up the male population of Pipeclay
It was very scratchy farming but
Father stuck to it between building con-
tracts. He used to walk from five to seven
miles to work at first, work twelve hours
and walk home again When Father
worked in town he carted home a load of
manure every night and spread it on the
barren ground. And sometimes at night he’d
bum off, and dig in the dam by moonlight....
The Mother was ambitious. She used to
scribble a lot of poetry and publish some
in the local paper. There were nine or
ten daughters in her family, most of them
big women a.nd all naturally intelligent and
refined. Almost any one of them might have
made a mark under other conditions
Grandfather was a big strong dark hand-
some man, who came from Kent with his
family. His people were supposed to have
been Gypsies and he was veiy Gypsy-like
in his habits. He had sight like a black-
fellow, and was a first-class Bushman of
the old 5ch001.... He liked to camp by
himself in the Bush He drank. At
home he had been known to smash all the
crockery and bring home a string of pint
pots, and a pile of tin plates and dump
them on the table. He was very mysterious
and never did things like other men. For
instance, he’d go to Mudgee and buy a
string of boots for the family, but he
wouldn’t bring them home. No—not he.
He’d roar at one of the girls: “D’yer see
that shaller digger’s hole up there on the
sidin’?” “Yes, Father.” “Then go up
there, yer’ll find a piece of bark in the
bottom—lift it up and see what yer’ll find.”
And the girls would find the b00t5.... He
was a great man in Mudgee in the early
days. He cleared the main street and
owned blocks of land in town. He lost
them—drink, of course. Amongst other
things he was an undertaker. He buried
many, and under all sorts of conditions—
some in sheets of bark.... He usually had a
coffin cut out roughtly and stuck up over
the tie-beams of the kitchen to season and
wait. The family hated this sort of thing.
They say he generally had an eye on a
prospective client, too, and cut his coffin
accordingly.
I was 11 or 12 when I first began to talk
about being a writer some day; but I may
have cherished the idea earlier. It exas-
perated father, but mother encouraged
Home life, I might as well say here, was
miserably unhappy, but it was fate—there
was no one to blame. It was the result
of one of those utterly impossible matches
so common in Australia. I remember a
child who, after a violent and painful
scene, used to slip out in the dark and
crouch down behind the pigsty and sob
as if his heart would break. And a big
black mongrel dog who’d come round with
slobbery sympathy. And the child would
put his arms round the dog’s neck and bury
his wet, white face in the shaggy hair. But
that child had a stubborn spirit and would
not kiss the rod.
Answers to Correspondents.
Ao notice ( except of a hostile character ) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Alex. T.: You are really trying to say
something of your own; and that’s a good change
from the prevailing echoes. But thus far you lack
expression, which makes your verse hard reading....
E.-F.W.: Not bad, but on so fragile a theme it has
to be superfine... .E.C.D.: They don’t make a deep
impression... .W.P.: Buzzer that came back is too
old a friend... .C.E.W.: Poor harvest. Paddock wants
more cultivating. .. .M.V.G.: No freshness about it.
....D.11.: What, again, old friend ?.... Ino: Blighted
by obvious insincerity, the worst pest in the garden
of Australian poesy.... A.E.D’A.: Grow a bit, read
wisely and study form; then try again.... S.H.G.:
Nice rhymed photo; not poetry... .Jackson F.: Just
burble, burble, burble... .A.M.W.: Non-appearance
doesn’t always mean that the matter isn’t good
enough. It often means that there isn’t space
enough. . . .M.11.P.: Just a version of the old poisoned-
damper yarn.... R.D.: Felt no affection for the dog
that brought those bores together... .R.S.C.: Good
of its kind, but too slight for u5....A.11.: Mono-
logue became monotonous... .J.G.: Your “Open Con-
fession” isn’t good for a 50u....H.J.: A brumby
we shan’t brand... .N.D.: Don’t want lurid yarns of
’Frisco’s Chinatown....lt.H.J.: Holidaying wife
missed here also. Chutney yarn might suit some
other paper J.K.H.: Clumsy G.M.: Immature;
strengthen your plots and your characters... .C. 8.:
Neither has sufficient dramatic action... .C.J.G.: Too
late... .L. 8.: Ring-changing incredible; murder too
10ng.... A.D.D.: A far-fetched pair... .P.A.J.: Get
a new typewriter ribbon and leave three times as
much space between the lines... .S.K.W.: Obviously
written for Lancashire millhands. .. .N.G.: Trying
to capitalise returned love-letters?. .. .AV.O.J.: He
writes under the name of “Brent of Bin Bin,” and
has two novels, “Up Country” and “Twelve Creeks
Run,” to his credit. His identity is known only to his
publisher, Blackwood... .W.E.G.: His real name is
Richard King Huskinson. He is the dramatic critic
of the “Tatler,” London. Address, 223 Ashley Gar-
dens, Westminster, W. London... .T. 8.: No, that
won’t do. You can get bonds of quite low denomina-
tions now —if you .can pay for them. You would
have to pay for a new issue just the same....
M.1.C.K.: Much appreciated... .Te D. B.: Wish
you’d remember that clarity is as much a virtue in
poetry as in prose.... Charles J.: Won’t do, though
it discovers more things to rhyme with Maori than
this paper ever met before... .J.J.S.: Like so many
thousand other matin songs.... Gisborne: You’ve got
no hope till you write for your ear; and it’s quite
a mistake to suppose that the rule applies only to
verse... .H.S.: Might have passed if the ending hadn’t
been 01d....J.V.: A hackneyed theme... .P.R.: Off
our beat... .J.W.G.: You’ve stretched it too far....
J.H.: Too raw in its present form... . A.F.U.: Bad;
and vilely written on both sides of the paper....
M.A.R.: Much the same to you... .W.M.M.: Well ■
done in its way; but everything about it so stereo-
typed... .Sac: As poor as the hound of Lazarus, if 1
he had a hound.... Hobart: Thank Heaven for the •
ray of hope, anyhow:— <
He’s coming back from his great quest, *
With brain and power and added zest
To keep Australia free from pest. <
We’ll yet return to merry jest. j
r . ...A.E.W.: Labored; we can almost hear the
» rhyme-machine panting....E.Jl.T.: One of those
: “happy” poems that make the world so sad....
T.W.T.: You’ve got the makings, and should do
i better. Don’t be in a hurry to write... .C.E.K.:
, No, you can’t take the pen-name of “Bildad.” But.
, you really won’t need a pen-name if you can’t do
better.... Outer: Stop at the t....Pe0: Sincerest
sympathy and all that; still it’s not worth while
trying to wake her just to listen to that.... 8.C.:
Nice, gentle picture; only a little more distinction
-and it would have blushed to meet the printer....
R.N.D.S.: “Rider” neat, but didactic... .A.M.C.:
Last stanza still a bit weak....Eml: Rather a thin
little 10t... . Frances S.: Full of feeling; but not
melodious as verse on that theme should be....
H.T.8.: The idea made it a possible... .F.L.: Don’t
let yourself go dippy about that lady. Too many
father and grandfather poets saw her before you did.
....Ellenvale: “Ahoy” not a bad miss; the other is
back in the ruck... .H.H.C.: They all have the fervor
of a road roller, and many of them have its weight.
....Celia: Too easy and mechanical.... Ted P.: We
don’t wake the old dead pioneers now for anything
but the best. Last time they were disturbed they
were terribly upset over the mess we’d made of
their country... .J.S.W.: Both weak.... Hep T.: A
slaughter-yard fence might hold the eye if a robin
chirruped on the top rail. You don’t add even a
sparrow to your g100m... .Amil: Dirty rubbish...,
N. C. Line: All carefully explained a few weeks
ago—only then it was bananas, not potatoes....
G.A.M.: Thanks, but we’ve got an expert engaged
on that subject... .W.K.: First four lines beat all
the rest:—
Australia won the Ashes,
Phar Lap won the cup,
Lang got in the Gas House
Shut poor Bavin up.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.G.: You have an unexampled talent for mak-
ing human beings look like petrol bowsers....
G.P.: Only teaching will curb those wayward lines.
. ...F.8.: Usual thing happened... .A.L.: Undecided
strokes and barleywater jokes... .8.N.0.: Not worth
your while continuing... .W.G.: Came in with the
tail-enders. . . .C.H.: Advancing, but not rapidly....
J.N.L.: Refuse to be connected, even for one issue,
with that collection of deformities... .C.C.: Lines
just manage to hang together... .A. 8.: Mining sketch
consigned to mullock-heap... .W.8.C.: Nothing to
get festive about... .E.H.: Poor stuff....R.D.G.:
You’d make a good stove-pipe designer... .E.G.P.:
You’ll have to climb a few steps higher. .. .J. 11.:
You claim to be an artist and you can’t draw a
mug of beer... .J.II. W.: Can’t fit them in here....
Sherlock: Not pining for your pugs. .. .W.G.: He's
black but he’s no abo F.S.: Have another look
at her right arm 0.W.: Take lessons, and plenty
of them.... J.T.W.: Send it to an undertakers’ trade
journal. .. .V.P.: You may call yourself a modern-
ist, but the jokes are 50 years old. ...C.D.: Try to
cultivate a firm even stroke. .. .T.M.P.: Obviously
you’ve never harnessed a horse or milked a cow.


9
/ m
v*
V'JP
i- i % \ /
(
V '
. '■£§: /
mmmsmmm
-■ ' ■ - • ■
. :: :
v.
■
... #»
■
■I
■ h
:
: ...._ ■ .
M
' : ;'
-
" •- ;: ; ;
:-:..\v ■ *
.
■
:
Hi
8 :
i-’C ; .
' * >■ ' '"'
m
' ::'r ]
BBS
■
/ 0 0 Mi
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 51.—N0. 2651.
December 3, 1930.
Maloney's
Cockatoo
’Twas in a river bend I met, not far from Byanbye,
An ancient man of bitter speech, with murder in his eye.
His gaze was lifted heavenward, where in the taller trees
A band of drowsy cockatoos were perched in noonday ease.
“I’d like to choke the cows,” he said, “their flamin’ necks to screw!
There ain’t a curse on all the earth to beat a cockatoo.”
The hush of noon was on the land. The stream that wimpled there
Was murmuring a soft refrain; the balmy, scented air
Might well all angry thoughts assuage, dispel all passions wild—
Alas, the hour impressed him not! His eloquence defiled
The sylvan solitude; until at last from him I drew
The reason why he had a curse for ev’ry cockatoo.
“Just forty year ago it was I had a slap-up team
Of bullicks cartin’ stores an’ wool along the Darling stream.
Yes; four-an-’twenty of the best. I was a big gun then—
Could fill ’em up, an’ speak me turn with any class o’ men.
I was a cove as gained respect wherever bullicks grew—
Until my life was blighted by a flamin’ cockatoo.
“I’d loaded up at Bogaduk with stores from off the boat;
Then, feelin’ sort o’ parchecj inside, I thought I’d damp my throat.
I left the bullicks on the road, contented in their yokes;
But in Maloney’s bar I met a lot o’ station blokes,
Old friends o’ mine. The drinks went round the way they useter
do—
I never thought no mischief from Maloney’s cockatoo.
“He was an edjercated bird you know the sort maybe—
Could sing an* whistle, curse an’ swear the same as you an’ me.
Well, as we downed our drinks an’ laughed an’ talked the time away,
A lady friend o’ mine come in, excited like, to say:
‘Hey, Bill, you blanky fool,’ she says, ‘come out, an’ lively, too —
Your blanky team’s been started by that flamin’ cockatoo!’
“ 'Struth, she was right! Along the track through clouds of dust
they showed,
With Cocky on the waggon perched. We sprinted down the road;
An’ drawin’ nearer heard him shout, like one who knew the trade:
‘Gee-orf, you crimson crocodiles!’ The cranky cows obeyed!
‘Gee-orf!’. . . . While we was still behind we seen the leaders slew
Right over to the river bank—drove by that cockatoo!
“ ‘Gee-orf!’ The waggon with a rush went rollin’ down the bank,
Draggin* me bullicks in with it; beneath the stream it sank;
I watched the bubbles risin’, as I leaned against a post,
Where Spot an’ Brindle an’ the rest was givin’ up the ghost.
One livin’ thing alone escaped. High in the air it flew
In screechin’ triumph to the pub—Maloney’s cockatoo!
“That broke me ’eart!" The ancient raised his eyes aloft once more;
And in the mellow afternoon blood-curdling oaths he swore.
The sweet blush blooms were round his feet—he took no heed of
these,
But wished that he had wings to reach “them blankers in the trees.”
So from that sylvan solitude I turned and bade adieu
To one whose life was blighted by a soulless cockatoo!
MAORILAND.
RIVERINA.


NEW YEAR NUMBER
DECEMBER 31
SPEC/AL
HOL/DA Y
ISSUE.
Concluding Instalment of Henry
Lawson’s Autobiography will be
published.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 211/ George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: IV/-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 289 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westkalia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
, Temple Bar 5793.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to ant address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, .Cl :',s.; 6 months, 12s. 6a.;
“ months, 7s.
To ANV ADDRESS Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.,
6 months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: ,2d.
U.S.A.: Scl. Elsewhere: sd.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE-
HENRY LAWSON’S AUTOBIOGRAPHY . . 2, 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 9
POLITICAL POINTS 10
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 11
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 11
SOCIETY (with drawings) . . . . 12, 13
PERSON AT/ (with caricatures) . . .. .. 14
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..16
OPENING A BIG TALKIE 16
(Drawings by Frith)
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 17, 18
ABORIGINALITIES—
(With drawings by Norman Lindsay and
others) . . . . . . . . 24, 25
MAN ON THE LAND . . . . . . 26, 29
SMOKE-OH (with drawings) . . . . . . 34
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT .. . . 42
POVERTY POINT 45
THE PALETTE 45
THE INKY WAY . . . . 45
SHADOW SHOWS 47
Complete Stories—
“THE BULLDOG OF CHRISTMAS REEF,”
By Albert Dorrington .. . . 20, 21
“PARIS LEAVE,” by Charles Cooper . . 22, 23
“THE GOOSE,” by Harold Mercer . . . . 31
“FORWARD, MR. FOTHERINGHAM!”
By Frank Middlemiss . . . . . . 32
“THE BRIDGE,” by Alys Brown . . 36, 37
“DAD AS GRANDPA,” by Steele Rudd .. 39
“THE KING’S SCHOOL,”
By ,1. H. M. Abbott . . . . 65, 66
A PAGE OF VERSES . 40
Serial, “Break o’ Day”—
By John Crisip . . . . . . 48, 49, 59
SPORTING (illustrated) .. .. .. 51, 52
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 55
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE .. . . ..57
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 60
AS WE SAID BEFORE 63
Special New Year Number, December 31.
A HAIR OF THE DOG.
In “World's Gold and Our Debts’’ The Bulletin
(19/11/’3O) says, referring to England, “The mother
who could let a wayward child have the run of her
plethoric purse would not be acting quite fairly if
she suddenly changed her character”.... But England
has not suddenly changed her character; the Aus-
tralian Governments have for some years been finding
it difficult to borrow in London, but they would not
heed the warning. What more could England have
done ? —A.P.M.
But was it difficult to borrow in London ?
When it is getting difficult to catch fish,
you come home with a gradually shrinking
haul. The old basket is not quite brim-
ming; then it is but three-parts full; then
half; next there is a small recovery, and
you get back to two-thirds; then step by
step you slip until before you come back
absolutely empty-handed there is a mere
scale or so in the bottom of the basket,
But there was nothing of this sort when we
went fishing for loans. Commonwealth debt
abroad mounted steadily as follows:
London. New York.
1926 . . £136,009,179 £10,402,754
1927 . . 132,169,698 10,383,252
1928 . . 136,215,847 17,291.277
1929 .. 142,630,573 17,155,718
1930 . . 150,746,149 17,155,718
And the gross public debt of the States
moved in the same period from 639 mil-
lions to 727 millions. The amounts floated
abroad in the first five years of this seven-
year period did not gradually dwindle. Be-
tween 1924 and 1926 (two years) the total
was 21 millions; in the following two years
it was 59 millions. The “Commonwealth
Year Book” has not had time to carry this
dissection of State loans any further; but on
these, figures, and up to the end of 1928,
there was no suggestion that the London
money market was getting tired of us.
On the contrary, a loan, the nineteenth,
floated in London in January, 1929, cost us
not a farthing' more than the seventeenth
floated in London 12 months earlier. What
warnings were poured into Australia’s ear
came indeed not from Britain but almost
wholly from Australia itself.
So there was a sudden stoppage of loans
to Australia; and it is to the suddenness
of the stoppage, combined with the very
severe fall in the price of our exports, that
most of our distress is due. The Bulletin
throws no brick at England for lending us
so much money. We were fools enough to
ask for it, and as our security looked good
it was forthcoming. But The Bulletin
repeats that the mother who lets a way-
ward child have the run of her plethoric
purse for years, and then suddenly snaps it
and throws the child upon its own re-
sources at a time of tremendous difficulty,
has less consideration for the youngster than
a mother might reasonably be expected to
have.
If the suddenness of the operation were
not liable to produce very evil results,
there would be less occasion to say any-
thing about the matter. The fact, however,
is that during this period when loan money
was poured out to us, a large class was
created with a sort of vested right in loan
jobs. Thousands of men who ought to have
been -engaged in primary and secondary
industries—in production of some kind—
were taken from them and put on to build
unnecessary railways; and thousands more,
seeing easy money to be made, set them-
selves up to minister to the wants of .these
loan jobbers. The sudden stoppage of over-
sea borrowings affected so many of these
people that the entire community felt a
violent jolt. In better circumstances we
might soon have pulled ourselves together
after the shock and the dislocation; but
the markets were against us. So we have
spent a year of distress, struggling, with the
poorest results, to get back to our feet.
It may be that some day or other we
shall manage it; but meantime how many
people are going under? Many of those
gentlemen who call for inflation may be
fools; a few of them no doubt are cunning
rogues and schemers. But others of them
are men who feel that something ought to
be done to tide the community over this
black period. The great danger is that,
attempting to do this, we shall adopt some
mad scheme which will lead us on to still
greater distress. Is it not possible to pro-
duce a scheme which, though it may not be
admirable in itself, will at least have no
very bad after-effects? Something that will
take the place of that “controlled inflation”
which one quite influential school of eco-
nomists in Australia is advocating?
The sudden stoppage of overseas borrow-
ing, and the rapid reduction of employ-
ment on loan works, found us unprepared
with any substitute; and we are still so
busy chasing away the wolf from the door
that nothing in the shape of a permanent
substitute is even yet on the way. The
question therefore arises whether, bad as
borrowing is—and about that The Bulle-
tin has never been in doubt—it would not
be advisable to open up negotiations with
a view to raising a few moderate loans,
gradually diminishing until they ceased alto-
gether in three years’ time; pledging our-
selves (as far as we can pledge ourselves)
to keep off the market thereafter. If such
a scheme were endorsed by t'he British Gov-
ernment, the feeling of uncertainty, almost
of despair, which more than anything else
is holding us back would probably dis-
appear; and we should attack our larger
problems more or less free of terrible anxiety
about to-morrow morning’s breakfast.
A COALITION MAY BE NECESSARY.
How many unemployed there are in Aus-
tralia nobody knows, apparently; Ministers
continue to be satisfied with calling the
army “unparalleled” and “unprecedented,”
and for the present it can be left at that.
One section of the Government party at
Canberra wants Parliament to remain in
session until these are “absorbed.” But
how? It seems that so long as the immedi-
ate wants of the unemployed are provided
for, members will be content.
Yet this is merely thrusting the main
question aside. What plans are we making
to get these hundreds of thousands back
into production? The mere “absorption”
of them in relief works, paid for mainly
by levies on those in work, will get us
nowhere. For hundreds of years we have
laughed at the community which tried to
live by taking in one another’s washing;
and this is no better.
No doubt there are tremendous diffi-
culties in the way; but we shall not over-
come them by declining to face them. There
is already over-production, we are told.
But what way out has anybody to suggest
except by production? Certainly we can
live for awhile on our own fat: we can go
on taxing and taxing for the relief of the
unemployed—that is to say, for their em-
ployment on unproductive works. But there
must be an end to that; for every new
tax completes the emptying of a few more
pockets, and so adds to the list of those
who have to be maintained. We can con-
tinue this operation until everybody is at
a dead-level; and what then?
Meantime what of our foreign debt and
the annual interest bill? This can be paid
only with exported goods; and the more
people there are out of production, the
fewer there are to supply those goods.
Certainly we can say that the markets are
too low and that we cannot sell at the
price. But, then, we have said that there
is to be no repudiation and no default—
that we will pay every penny. So
we are speaking with two voices: with the
one that we must repudiate; with the other
that- we never will. Which is it to be?
At present neither the Federal Govern-
ment nor the Government of any large State
has a policy. All any of them has is a string
of small, disjointed expedients for stopping
the immediate clamor. In the way of a
policy for getting these two or three hundred
thousand people into production there is
nothing nor even the beginnings of any-
thing if we except the Customs tariff, and
that in its present shape is more a matter
of expediency than of principle, too.
The truth no doubt is that neither the
Federal Government nor the Lang Govern-
ment is game to incur the obloquy which
would come to it if it recognised and
accepted all that is implied by facing the
facts. The Federal Government knows now
pretty well what the situation calls for,
and the Lang Government is finding out
what Mr. Hill (S.A.) found out six months
ago. But if either does what it should do,
it will lose its job; ajid jobs are infinitely
the most important thing in the world to
most politicians. In the end-something in
the shape of a Coalition may be necessary,
simply because the odium of necessary un-
popular actions will thus be shared by the
two principal parties.
ON THE DISADVANTAGES OF BEING
A HUSBAND.
Our “man-made laws” are very unjust to
men who are married. Suppose, for in-
stance, a man is married to a lady who has
much wealth but poor eyesight and a fancy
for breaking all speed-records in George-
street. She quite naturally runs over a
pedestrian and kills him. The widow of
the pedestrian may then sue the lady’s
husband and get a verdict for, say, £2OOO.
may issue execution against him for this
amount, and if he doesn’t pay up may
make him a bankrupt. If he does pay up,
he can’t recover any part of the verdict
or costs from his wife, even if she has thou-
sands. This disability is due to the fact
that he is her husband, and. this fact may
or may not be sufficient consolation for his
financial detriment and loss.
The same rule applies to all wrongful acts
done by the wife for which damages may
be recovered, except such as arise out of
her contracts. For instance, if she engaged
a chauffeur for a year, and wrongfully dis-
missed him at the end of a week, it would
appear that his sole 1 remedy would be
against her; but if at the end of the engage-
ment she told her friends that he had not
brains enough to drive a wheelbarrow or a
scooter, the husband would, as it seems, be
liable for the slander.
He certainly would be liable if she said
that her friend Mrs. X found long sleeves
convenient when she played cards for
money, even if the comment arose out of
a game of contract bridge. This liability for
such slanders may at any time become one
of great importance, for the lady who has
a poor opinion of the wisdom, the honesty
and morality of her friends and neighbors,
and an irrepressible desire to express that
opinion, is like unto the poor in that
we have her with us always. the
husband is powerless to avert the disaster;
for even if he is aware that his wife is about
to commit some grievous tort for which he
will probably be cast in damages, he cannot
obtain an injunction to prevent her from
proceeding on her wilful way.
Still, his lot is not as bad as it might be,
for if she embarks upon a career of shop-
lifting he cannot be compelled to serve a
sentence of six months occasionally on her
behalf, although he could, as it seems, be
for the value of the stockings and
things she has shoplifted.
This reference to crime recalls the. fact
that if a husband and wife go together and
commit a burglary he is liable for anything
up to 14 years’ penal servitude, but she
will be acquitted, because the law will pre-
sume that she acted under duress and
only burgled because her husband ordered
her to do so, and she, being his wife, obeyed
him as in duty bound to do. This theory
had some substance in the days when a hus-
band was allowed to hit his wife with a
stick, but it is surely time that the law
recognised the fact that a wife will never
do anything she doesn’t want to do, even
if her husband tells her that she must.
In the matter of “necessaries,” too, the
husband is batting on a sticky wicket, for
if the wife runs up bills for such things
and neglects to pay, the husband may be
sued, and it is no defence to him to prove
that the wife has a much larger income than
he has; further, if he has to pay the amount
of verdict and costs, he cannot recover it
from her. Then again, if a husband wrong-
fully takes any portion of his wife’s property,
she may maintain an action against him for
conversion; but if she similarly takes any
part of his property, he has no legal remedy
whatever, for the law, with a fine air of
chivalry, seems to be imbued with the
notion that a wife, like the King, can do
no wrong.
A similar rule of injustice applies with
respect to ante-nuptial debts, for if the
husband has during the engagement bor-
rowed money from the going-to-be-wife, she
can interrupt the rapture of the honeymoon,
of the calmer joyance of married life, by
serving him with a writ for money lent;
but if he has, before marriage, lent her
money to buy frocks and face-powder and
other items of a trousseau, or to back some-
thing tipped for the Cup, or to invest in
land or for other purposes, he loses all right
to recover the debt due to him, when with
admirable courage he says “I will.”
In this instance one would hesitate about
sympathising with the husband. It is true
he has lost the amount of the debt, but he
has got the girl, and it may be that in some
cases he may show a profit on the trans-
action. Even so it is a hard rule of law,
for suppose the wife sues the husband to
recover the £2 10s. that she gave him that
night when they wouldn’t take his cheque
at the restaurant, and the £3 she lent him
to pay the taxi-driver, he can’t set-off the
£2O he lent her to get her furs out after
she had spent an exciting Saturday after-
noon at Moorefield.
Still there is one way in which the hus-
band is favored, though not complimented,
by the law; for if any “lewd fellow of the
baser sort” deprives him of his wife’s con-
sortium, so that she no longer clusters
round his hearth as in the days of yore,
he can get moderate to enormous damages
for the deprivation. But if a woman lures a
husband away from his home, or otherwise
deprives the wife of his society., the wife
can get no compensation, for the law seems
to think that a husband’s consortium can-
not, in any case whatever, be worth anything
worth mentioning in terms of money.
These are some of the strange things
that the members of feminine associations,
who speak with vague eloquence regarding
the injustices women are made to suffer
under “man-made laws,” would do well to
consider when they have any spare time for
thinking; and they are matters that legis-
lators would do well to remedy, for although
our law is the perfection of reason it seems
to be sadly lopsided in its dealings with
husbands and wives.
WILFRKD BLACKET, K.C.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The N.S.W. Leg. Council.
The Lang Government in N. S. Wales will
proceed at once with its bill to abolish the
Leg. Council. In the former Parliament,
Bavin, weighted by various most incom-
petent Ministers, felt himself unable to
do more than pass a bill declaring that the
Council should not be abolished without
the people’s approval on a referendum. His
intention was to hold this referendum; but
hard times intervened, and economy ruled
it out. Now Lang claims to have a man-
date from the people to destroy the
chamber; and he proceeds to do it, mocking
at the Act of last session.
Of course the question of constitution-
ality is raised. In short, is this Act of last
Parliament any different from the hundred
other Acts which are being continually
ended or amended? It will probably be
found that it is not different. And, dis-
tressful as the results may be, it should not
be, either. A dead Parliament should not
be in a position to decide what a living Par-
liament should do. A Federal Constitution
is quite another matter. That is an agree-
ment between parties. Nor should a Par-
liament proceed in the face of a referendum
until another referendum had upended the
previous instruction. But unfortunately
Bavin held no referendum.
On the other hand, Lang’s talk of “a
mandate from the people” is nonsense. It
is true that Lang went to the country; it
is true he mentioned, amongst a hundred
other things, the abolition of the Leg. Coun-
cil. But so far as 75 per cent, of those who
voted for him are concerned, all the man-
date he got was to supply them with a
job if they didn’t have one and keep them
in their job on the old or better pay
if they did have one. And it is very
doubtful whether Lang can accept even
that as a mandate. Bavin appealed to the
country on one question and one question
only: he reiterated that; he made it quite
clear. Lang accepted the challenge; he
could do nothing else. So the one and only
mandate that Lang got was to resist the
policy in relation to the Loan Council to
which Bavin had pledged himself, and on
which he appealed to the country.
Lang’s alleged “mandate” can therefore
be thrown aside as rubbish. Premiers can’t
pick up mandates by the gross like that.
If it is believed that Lang’s measure is one
that should not pass without a mandate,
then it should be rejected, because there is
no mandate; and if, being passed, it is
believed that it should not be assented to
without a mandate, then it should not be
assented to, seeing that the mandate claimed
is a mere pretence.
Less Cackle, More Captures.
There was a time in days long past when,
even if the reporters had been in at the
kill, as it were, in a murder case, and the
photographers had done Fig. 1, Fig. 2 and
Fig. 3 (the last with a thrilling “X marks
the spot”), Sergeant O’Ryan would say to
the lads with the notebooks at parting:
“There’s [this and that] I’d not loike min-
tioned. Just woind up by sayin’ ‘Th’ police
has siveral clues, but is riticent.’ ” The
sergeant in those days would go off about
his business of apprehending the murderer
with no need for a doubt in his mind as to


EXPLAINING THE POSITION.
“Mr. Lang said that it was necessary to get the money from somewhere. The people would understand that.” —"Labor Daily,” explaining the proposed two shillings in
the pound loan tax.
LANG: “Don’t think for a moment we’re bandits. We’re Father Christmas getting the money for the presents we promised you.”
whether or not his warning would be re-
spected. He knew it would be, because if
it wasn’t not only the reporter who offended
but the whole of the staff of the news-
papei which lie served would have a very
haul low to hoe at headquarters thereafter.
Nowadays, as many recent cases, especi-
ally of sex crime, emphasise, the good old
rule has gone by the board. It seems to be
the fashion for the policemen in any way
connected with such cases to communicate
to the newspapers not only every scrap of
fact they have been able to discover, but
their private theories and suspicions. Even
the most respectable and straight-laced
journals seem to see no impropriety in pub-
lishing these most injudicious and improper
police statements, and the more porno-
graphic section of the press interviews wit-
nesses and indulges in embroideries on their
evidence. A particularly unsavory feature
of such publicity stunts is that innuendoes
concerning the moral character of the vie-
tim are not excluded from the discussion, no
matter how flimsy their basis. The police
attitude seems to be: “Well, as we can’t
find the assailant the best thing to do to
save our faces is to suggest that the victim
was to blame.”
It is time, in the interests of police effi-
ciency and the proper administration of
justice, that a rigid curb was put upon the
loquacity of policemen in conversation with
reporters, and upon the right of newspapers
to adduce, discuss and pre-judge evidence.
As every policeman and reporter of any ex-
perience knows, a sensational crime is likely
to produce a flock of “witnesses” who would
not be put into the box by any sensible
Crown Prosecutor. But what they have
to say is given to the world by the news-
papers, with the result that the Judge, if
there is a trial, invariably has to warn
the jury that it must forget what it has
read about the case—a feat which it is
easier to counsel than achieve. The motto
“Less cackle and more captures” might
appropriately be posted up in all Australian
police stations.
+
Twentv Years in the N T
iwenty *ears__in the H.i.
The Northern Territory has enjoyed for
just on 20 years the blessings of Common-
, , .
wealth control that is, control by southern
politicians and bureaucrats. It was taken
over from South Australia on January 1,
1911, and at the end of 1929 the population
(Asiatics, but not aboriginals, included) was
reckoned to have increased from 3310 to
4470, the area being 532,620 square miles,
or six times that of Victoria. In the
Northern Territory Acceptance Act, as the
Commonwealth Statistician points out year
after year, the Commonwealth undertook
“to complete the construction of the trans-
continental railway from Port Darwin to
Port Augusta.” Bits of 3ft. 6in. line have
been taken north to Alice Springs and south
to Daly Waters, but there is a gap of 550
miles between. In short, the main prevision
of the agreement with South Australia, and
the one which meant everything to the
Territory, has not been fulfilled,
The bureaucratic rule from which the
Territory has suffered has been like nothing
e ] se on earth. For most of the 20 years
now drawing to a close, “its railways,” as
ex-Treasurer Earle Page has admitted,
“were controlled by the Commissioner in
Melbourne, its Customs by the Collector in
Brisbane, its postal arrangements by the
Deputy P.M.G. in Adelaide, its works by
the Works Department in Melbourne, and
all health matters by the Quarantine
Department in Brisbane.” In an effort to
get rid of the wildest absurdities of this
system, Page’s Government divided the
Territory into two administrative areas,
calling them North Australia and Central
Australia. At the same time, discovering
that it hadn’t appointed a commission for
a day or two, it set up the North A-US-
tralia Commission, with orders, among
others, to suggest schemes of development
that might tempt Westralia and Queensland
to transfer northern land and population,
sufficient, with the N.T., to form some day
a new State. Westralia and Queensland have
proved irresponsive, and now Scullin’s
Government proposes to abolish the Com-
mission and “revert to the system in force
prior to the passing of the Northern Aus-
tralia Act 1926”—in other words, the
bureaucratic burlesque described by Page,
In the nature of things, being without
funds, the North Australia Commission
couldn’t do much good or much harm. Yet
it seems hardly worth while scrapping it
and restoring the old disorder for “a
saving,” in Minister Blakeley’s estimate,
“of between £BOOO and £9OOO a year.” While
proposing to “save” this paltry sum, Blake-
ley’s party talks of building a 4ft.
gauge line from Red Hill to Port Augusta
(S.A.)—a project that would not add one
penny to the wealth of Australia. If it
has funds available for railways it should
devote them to the completion of the line
through the Commonwealth’s own magni-
ficent estate. The N.T. has never had a
Minister less enthusiastic than Blakeley, but
eyen that gentleman admits tbat the exten-
s^on f° Alice Springs has given a great
to the cattle industry in Central Aus-
tralia, and that prospectors m those parts
have “located some very fine silver-lead
propositions which, unfortunately, cannot
be developed because of the high cost of
transport.” Had the Adelaide-Darwin con-
nection been made before the war, the
Northern Territory might not now figure as
the most tragic failure in the history of
political efforts at colonisation.
Fish and Flesh.
The other day an unhappy Chinaman who
had “jumped” his ship in Brisbane seven
years previously was nabbed by the Federal
authorities and deported. Like most of his
kind, he had been an industrious and law-
abiding citizen until his iniquity was dis-
covered. A few weeks before this menace
to the community was mercifully eradi-
cated, the raiding of a nest of Communists
in Melbourne discovered drayloads of litera-
ture aiming at the subversion of Australian
social conditions as they exist to-day, and
with special recommendation of violent
methods. In Sydney last week a defiant
meeting of the same kidney resisted a force
of police with all the violence at its com-
mand.
It is significant that the lists of those
arrested in Melbourne and Sydney for their
illegal activities contain a surprising per-
centage of foreign names, many obviously
of Russian origin. There are, unfortunately,
some just as obviously British.
The Federal Government, enthusiastic in
the matter of gathering up an inoffensive
Chinaman, is showing itself strangely re-
miss in dealing with the scum of Eastern
Europe and Russia, which has now risen to
the top in the boiling pot of Australian
industrialism. This unsavory element has
been reinforced by a horde of discredited
political blackguards from Britain and
North America. All are shoving themselves
into the political government of a com-
munity which, while the great majority of it
has no sympathy with them, passes them by
as a troublesome nuisance with truly Aus-
tralian casualness.
There is no reason why comrade Cutthroat-
ski and his friends who are not naturalised
—most of the fraternity are not —should not
be deported as dangerous nuisances. Un-
happily, there is a “cave” in the Federal
Parliament to-day which is sealed to the
maintenance of Cutthroatski and his fellow-
ruffians in Australia, and it may be taken
for granted that, while an occasional China-
man is sent out of the country as an un-
desirable immigrant, the affiliations of the
Third International, including as they do
at least one Federal Cabinet Minister, will
stand stoutly by the cause of Moscow.
As for the enemy of our own race —well,
South Africa has set an excellent prece-
dent for dealing with him, supposing a Gov-
ernment comes along with pluck enough to
take it up.
♦
The Great Business of Playing.
The instant popularity of the team of
colored cricketers from the West Indies is
significant. These fellows play the game
as a game, and obviously enjoy it as much
as they hope the onlookers will. Between
their exhibition and that of the average
“Test” there is the difference between a
Hughie Mclntosh vaudeville show and a
chess match between elderly champions.
And there is just about the same difference
between the onlookers. Our play is indeed
in great danger of being no longer play.
It is becoming largely a matter of “science,”
and, no matter how it may slow down the
proceedings, the fewest possible risks must
be taken, because the great thing is not to
play but to win.
Is it not all a mistake? Have we not been
putting play into a position and giving it a
character which it ought never to have?
And is not the success of the West Indians
a timely hint that we are rather tired of
it—rather bored with the professional and
semi-professional struggle to make a des-
perately serious business out of a recreation?
At any rate, the West Indians’ is a very
welcome success. For the displacement of
play from a position which it ought never
to have had may automatically put work
—our daily job—back into a position which
it ought never to have lost.
♦
Watch Your Parks!
Dear Bulletin, — Our people’s recreation
grounds are being insidiously trespassed
upon by apparently favored folks or sport-
ing bodies. On the water frontage of
National Park (N.S.W.) many so-called
“week-enders” are regularly occupied by
men and sometimes women. The destruc-
tion of trees and shrubs around these camps
is transforming natural beauty into ugly
desolation, and the camps are increasing
greatly every year. Then observe Centen-
nial Park, which is .being converted into a
sports ground with innumerable cricket
pitches and football squares.
This encroachment cannot, I feel sure,
have the sympathy of a Labor Govern-
ment, and Mr. Lang’s Ministers will do their
State a good service by setting their face
against it.—Yours, Geebung.
♦
Wanted, a Pledge.
Dear Bulletin, —Caucus, by forcing Fed-
eral Labor to accept proposals for an
“increase in the note issue and release of
ample credit,” and certain lecturers on eco-
nomics, by suggesting that “judicious in-
flation” mightn’t hurt, have created an
impression that the familiar swindle is to
be worked here. To make matters worse,
a good deal of publicity is being given in
N. S. Wales and Victoria to France’s partial
repudiation of some of her war loans—a
repudiation which affected French as well
as British and American subscribers. These
developments are bound to react unfavor-
ably on the Conversion Loan.
One way to alleviate public anxiety—and
the only way, it seems to me—would be for
the Government to give its undertaking,
on behalf of the Commonwealth, that the
money repaid to the lenders on maturity
will be equal in purchasing power to the
money lent.
This would (1) encourage capitalists to
do their duty by the State, and (2) queer
the game of the political crooks who want
to use inflation, followed by repudiation, to
score off those whom they regard as their
natural enemies, and perhaps achieve a revo-
lution, through national bankruptcy, after
the European model.—Yours, etc., J. D.


QV
LIGGETT & MYERS
TOBACCO CO.
&
I
o
»
POLITICAL
POINTS
Though we have still a terrible way to go,
we are moving. From the end of March,
when this Federal Government’s high-tariff
policy got fairly going, to the end of Sep-
tember, when these statistics were ruled off,
we had reduced our merchandise imports
from £72,849,840 (1929 figures) to
£43,964,550 (1930 ditto). And while in the
six months of 1929 our merchandise exports
fell £23,984,550 short of paying for our
imports, in these six months of 1930 they
fell only £3.390,812 short. We have thus
moved £20,593,738 further away from bank-
rutcy ; and when we have shifted another 20
millions we will be fairly safe.
It is confidently expected that the political
pilgrimages to Geneva (International Labor
Conference and League of Nations Assembly)
and London (Imperial Conference) will
cost £lO,OOO this year. On November
20 the bill had reached £6915 13s. 10d., and
most of the pilgrims were still sightseeing in
the British Isles. The London party in-
cluded a press-agent and three Ministers'
“Mr. Scullin, who is visiting Ireland, was enter-
tained at Bally scullin.”
And, bearing in mind what awaits him at
Canberra, he kissed the Blarney Stone.
wives (“their transport expenses only,”- it is
explained, “arc met from Government
funds”), and some of the wanderers are com-
ing home by way of the U.S.A., where travel
is dearer than in any other country on
earth. “Hansard” records the progressive cost
of this touring; iu the same volume it is
mentioned—also on Ministerial authority—
that 180,000 Australians are out of work.
Lang said in his policy speech that the
Loan Council Must Go. He asked for “a
mandate to have the Financial Agreement
amended and the Loan Council dissolved,” and
the mandate was given—at least the Lang
party was returned with a majority of 20 in
a House of 90. Yet in the Governor’s speech
to Parliament neither the Financial Agree-
ment nor the Loan Council was mentioned.
Secession from the Loan Council is the most
important feature of Lang’s programme, for
without it there can be no borrowing boom
and no gorgeous array of “works” and bene-
volences ; but at the opening of Parliament —
though much was made of Council abolition,
and arbitration amendments, and fair rents,
and the 44-hour week, and even the ravages
of prickly-pear—it was represented by a
blank.
“The Labor party will review the Unem-
ployment Relief Act and also the incidence
of the taxation imposed by it,” Lang said
this in his policy speech (“Labor Daily”
report, Sept. 23), but neither in that deli-
verance nor in any other on printed record
did he say that Bavin’s tax would have to
be increased. On the contrary, he under-
took to “attack the grim spectre of unem-
ployment” by borrowing; “Labor will find
the money to complete all those incomplete
public works.... and absorb many thousands
of our unemployed in road construction.”
This part of the programme has been un-
avoidably delayed, but Bavin’s tax is to go
up from 3d. to Is. in the £ of gross weekly
income, and it is to be collected from
all receiving more than £2. In effect, a 3f
p.c. reduction of wages and salaries. Lang
also threatens to “review” the Child Endow-
ment tax, now £1 in the £lOO of wages and
salaries. If that burden on employers is
added to he will have heaps more out-of-
works to provide for.
Lyons has altered his special tax on pro-
perty income (another Is. 6d. in the £) for
the second time, but the widow or retired
farmer who sent in a return of income before
the slump will still have to pay £67 9s. 2d.
Federal tax on £6OO, and £134 19s. 3d. on
£lOOO, and State income and unemployment
taxes out of what is left. The N.S.W.
tax on property income starts at 9d.
in the £ and rises to 25 per cent,
of the excess over £5500: unemploy-
ment tax is to be Is. in the £, and though
a proposal to make it 2s. was turned down
Minister Badly explains that “the Govern-
ment has another way of coming back at
those who are receiving large sums of money,
and they will have to pay heavily.” Badly is
a Friend of Russia, and the Friends of
Russia will never be content until they
have taxed the “borjoice” out of existence.
The Federal Labor Caucus has ordered the
Government to build the Red Hill-Port
Augusta railway, dap an export duty on
sheepskins and give legislative sanction to a
gold bonus. The railway and the export
duty are preposterous proposals in our
present situation; the gold bonus is different,
but it is not to be actually paid until 1932,
the idea being that it should be £1 an ounce
lor ten years on gold produced in excess of
the 1930 output. This will take a deuce
of a lot of working out, and no one can be
sure that the absent Priminister won’t
veto the scheme, or that it won’t go the
way of the promise to give 4s. a buskel for
wheat, or indeed that there will be any
Labor Government in 1932. Ten shillings an
ounce payable right away on all new gold
would give a far greater impetus to pros-
pecting and the reworking of old shows; and
on 1929 figures the initial outlay would only
be £16,000 or £17,000 a month.
Marks, M.H.R., whose family owns a lot
of Sydney property, told Acting-Treasurer
Lyons that his tax on property income would
reduce the return from the estate to 6s. 3d.
in the £—and Lang had then to be, heard
from. Moreover “rents have tumbled like a
pack of cards, and many shops and offices
are vacant.” The man from Wentworth
went on to say that he had placed the posi-
tion before his staff, who thereupon offered to
take every sixth week off without pay. Many
other employees in a like situation have lost
their jobs or will presently lose them.
“Legalised theft” doesn’t really benefit the
wage-earner, although windbags and theorists
think it does.
By 40 votes to 11 Vic. Assembly decided
to disregard a protest by the Supreme Court
Judges against the deduction of 20 p.c. from
their stipends (£2500 a year each) for nine
months to June 30, 1931. Macfarlan voted
with the Government on the ground that the
wig-wearers were not sacrosanct when a
national emergency necessitated all-round
retrenchment. Laborites expressed admira-
tion for the ex-Attorney-General’s attitude;
his brother is on the Bench.
Experienced banker Spitzer, manager of
the French bank in Australia, has come
back from Europe to tell us that the U.S.A.
and France in particular and England to a
less extent are so tired of hoarding gold
which does them no good that they are look-
ing keenly for foreign investments. Scullin,
he said, had created a most favorable atmo-
“A man has to sell a pup sometimes ."
sphere; and then Lang had blundered in and
started the spoiling which the Canberra
Caucus finished. Doesn’t Mr. Lang want a
trip to London? Out of hearing of Auburn
he might tell the financiers that a man has
to sell a pup sometimes, and that only a fool
would take much notice of what he said in
the process.
Wickens, the Federal Statistician, has
been commissioned to find out and report
what is the cost of living of a man, his
wife and three children with a view to fixing
that as the basic wage. But that will be
a fool of an inquiry. What Wickens ought
to be asked to say is: (1) Is it a fact that
the basic wage hitherto has been paid with
the help of loans? (2) Are those loans any
longer available? (3) If not, is it possible
for a basic wage to be now maintained in
excess of a man’s real earnings? (4) If so,
is it not the proper thing to abolish the
basic wage and substitute for it a system
which will guarantee that the worker gets
what he earns?
More success attended the unemployment
conference summoned by Premier Hogan
than he had dared to hope. Despite the heavy
additional taxes he is clapping on to finance
relief works and doles, the classes that will
be levied upon most severely turned up in
DOING THE THING PROPERLY.
“Veterans of the N.S.W. Leg. Council are seriously
proposing to vote their nominee Chamber out of
existence. They are anxious to prevent a repetition
of what happened in Queensland —the appointment of
a flock of Labor abolitionists who were rewarded
with life passes over the railways.”
EX-LEADER: “I propose, Air. President, that
you should mark this melancholy occa-
sion by disembowelling yourself in the
grand old Japanese fashion.”
PRESIDENT: “ Just what I was about to pro-
pose to you, Mr. Carruthers.”
force and showed genuine anxiety to help. To
some extent the response to the call was a
personal compliment to Hogan and his
Upper House offsider Jones. The net result
of three hours’ deliberations was the crea-
tion of a committee to work in two sections.
A Sydney “Labor Daily” correspondent
says that Theodore put the London financiers
in their place when he was Treasurer of
Queensland by turning on his heel, going
to N. York and getting all the money In;
wanted. “Why isn’t the Commonwealth
doing now what Theodore did then?” he
wants to know. Well, chiefly because things
have so changed in. Australia that Unc-Sam
is now willing to take £B4 for Queensland’s
lOU for £lOO. And the other day he
was selling some Commonwealth Government
stock for even less. He was promised £lOO
for it in a few years’ time; but after sizing
up the Beasleys and Ansteys of Australia
he was satisfied to take £66 and be quit, as
he’d put it himself.
Export goods which are worth £lOO in
England are worth £lO9 in Australia, and
this bonus on production is making the ex-
porter feel there’s a bit of blue still left in
the sky. Some people of course are asking
how much the real producer is getting of
it, and how much the exporting agent collars;
and it is hard to say. Still, old hands in
the wool trade are prepared to swear that
of the 9 p.c. bonus the grower is getting
7 p.c. There is a pretty strong feeling now
iu Canberra, where all the strings are pulled,
to “unpeg” the exchange, and let it soar
where it will—up to 25 p.c. it might go,
they admit. It would certainly amount to
a hefty bonus for the exporter. But he
wouldn’t keep it, because scores of the things
he has to buy would soar up almost out of
sight too.
Another act in the tawdry farce of
Federal permanent-staff retrenchment has
been played by the Ministers who pledged
themselves to lower the cost of government
by £4,000,000 p.a.; they agreed that reduc-
tion of salaries by special tax should operate
from Dec. 1, instead of Nov. I—that is, for
seven months of the financial year only. And
only 441 out of 28,885 are to pay it. About
the same time N.S.W. Attorney-General
Lysaght was asked for the immediate repeal
of Bavin’s Public Service Bill (it cut salaries
merely 83 p.c.), as promised by his leader
on the hustings. He replied that the matter
was “under consideration,” and turned with
obvious relief to the next subject. The truth
is that rude shocks are preparing for these
selfish and blustering organisations of Gov-
ernment employees. Protected for the
moment, they will be turned down hard
when the Labor politician yields to circum-
stances in his panic-stricken way. Then
they will wish they had philosophically
accepted reductions, as did the public ser-
vants in Vic. and South Aus., instead of
demanding to be treated as a specially fav-
ored caste.
While assessments in the City. of Sydney
have been reduced by nine millions (and
private valuers protest that another ten
millions should have come off), they have
been increased in the Granville municipality,
where the grotesque Valuer-General’s depart-
ment operates. Granville adjoins Premier
Lang’s constituency and is represented by
his faithful slave Ely. A local alderman’s
account of it is that “many shops are closed,
many houses are empty, and many property
owners who have tenants can’t get their
rents”; but apparently the V.-G.’s depart-
ment accepts the view that with the return
of the Langs and Elys prosperity has been
restored.
Snowden, the bitter crank who bosses the
Labor Ministry in London, was in his worst
mood when he met Scullin and the other
overseas delegates in conference. He was
so uncompromising and so arrogantly in-
fallible that they naturally asked what was
the object in having a conference. He would
give nothing in the way of tariff preference,
and it was only at the last moment that
he agreed not to take away everything imme-
diately. Snowden’s position is difficult, for
the only Freetrade way in which he can
abolish preference on, say, Queensland sugar
is to reduce or abolish the corresponding duty
on the foreign article, and in the present
lamentable state of his finances, largely
caused by the increase of unemployed, he
can’t spare the money. His position is like
that of an orthodox old king who had to
kill off the Jews for the sake of his soul, and
daren’t save his soul lest he lose his solvency.
Somebody wrote to one of the papers the
other day mentioning that, having apparently
reduced our imports by 29 millions in six
months compared with the same months of
iast year, we are 29 millions better off; and
he wanted to know how it was we felt a
darned sight worse off. The paper didn't
tell him why; yet the explanation is simple
enough. We didn’t pay for those additional
29 millions of imports; we went into debt
for them, and the bill is still owing. But
we sold them in Australia all right and
blewed the proceeds.
“REVOLUTION STEPS ON THE
STAGE.”
“ ‘Tile most disgraceful riot ever associated with
an organised' assembly,’ is the ‘Labor Daily’s’
description of a hullabaloo which ‘followed a motion
at Sydney Labor Council condemning the Lang Gov-
ernment for “the Fascist attack on .unemployed demon-
strators.” The place was like a battlefield.. ..a raging
inferno of swinging . arms and flashing chairs.’
Alderman Garden, who once boasted that ‘Revolution’
had ‘stepped on the stage in Australia,’ stood up for
the Government and was assailed with a tornado of
jeers and protests. He was one of ‘the more know-
ing ones who took refuge on the platform.’ Police
were summoned but could not get in.”
Former Moscow Pilgrim (to himself ): “I
didna think I’d ever have to he ceevil
to the Johns, but an alderman must
stand up for Law and Or-rder-r. These
are awfu’ times, Jock, awfu’ times.”
The Hill Cabinet (S.A.) has appointed a
strong Unemployment Relief Council, with
Gillman, of the railways, ns chairman, and
Ryan, of the Tourist Bureau, as secretary.
Other members are Richardson, head of the
Labor Bureau; Murphy, State president of
the A.W.U.; Angell, of the Drivers’ Union;
and Bishop, managing director of a produce
firm. Hill welcomes the Caucus decision to
construct the Red Hill-Port Augusta rail-
way, but Butler doesn’t, and Australia won’t.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Country Killing in N. S. Wales
The downward slide in Australia’s meat-
export trade and the upward curve in prices
paid by local consumers have given Aus-
tralian graziers food for thought. Both the
Argentine and Maoriland show exactly oppo-
site movements. The factors mainly respon-
sible for their success have been the killing
of only prime stock in first-class condition
and the careful grading of the meat for
market, especially for overseas.
Australian graziers, and those of N. S.
Wales in particular, have long recognised
the importance of these factors. In N. S.
Wales of late the chief handicap has been the
vested interest built up in Sydney by the
establishment of the Homebusli Abattoirs.
Practically all the stock in the State to be
slaughtered for home or overseas consump-
tion must be dragged to Homebush. Invari-
ably it is conveyed by slow trains, and the
wastage in quality on the rail and in the
yards before sale is considerable. Once
in the yards there is no going back. Stock
must be sold at whatever price the power-
ful metropolitan wholesale butchers’ com-
bine thinks lit to offer.
To. deal with this situation th<! Australian
Graziers’ Meat Co., Ltd., has been formed
with a nominal capital of £1,500,000 in £1
shares; and the list of its shareholders in-
cludes the names of most of the leading
graziers of N. S. Wales. Its objective is
the establishment of a number of country
killing and treatment works, with a receiv-
ing and shipping depot in Sydney.
Country killing has been tried before and
failed because capital and personal backing
were never strong enough to carry the
scheme through against metropolitan opposi-
tion. In each instance those concerned de-
pended on the establishment of a single
centre, isolated, and compelled to rely on
its own resources. Such centres were hard hie
when drought invaded their district, and
were generally helpless to put up a fight
against the powerful opposition of the city.
The essentials in a campaign to prevent
the “pegging” of meat prices by the city
wholesalers are capital and personal sup-
port from the producers. The Australian
Graziers claim they have already obtained
both. They arc not going to make the mis-
take of their predecessors and put all their
eggs in one basket. No killing opera-
tions will be commenced until a string of
works in various country centres, are
advanced enough to justify the beginning of
output.
It is proposed that five or six country
centres shall be established in N. S. Wales,
all standardised as to lay-out and machinery,
and with the latest equipment. These will
carry on not only killing and chilling, but
all branches of canning and the manufacture
of by-products.
For transferring the meat to the Sydney
depot, cars refrigerated or ventilated, accord-
ing to the season, will be used, making fresh-
killed country meat available to metropoli-
tan consumers every morning. The matter
of the cars has already been put before the
railway authorities, with facts and figures,
showing the scheme as an attractive business
proposition. Additional refrigerated cars
will be needed, but these can easily be con-
verted from existing sheep and cattle trucks.
The upkeep of these trucks is heavy under
existing conditions, since most of them are
empty half the time. Under the Graziers’
scheme the refrigerated cars would run
express to Sydney at any hour of the day
or night. Instead of going back empty, as
the trucks bringing stock do, they would
carry all manner of perishable goods to coun-
try centres, and would thus earn freight both
ways. The big staffs now necessary in con-
nection with livestock trains could be dis-
pensed with, only the engine crew and guard
being required. Other expenses cut out
would be the transfer and collection of empty
trucks scattered all over the State, which is
at present one of the Railway Department’s
chief burdens. Booking costs for trucks
would also be eliminated.
Another feature of the Graziers’ scheme is
that when drought fell on one of the dis-
tricts in which a killing centre was situated
the latter could shut down the fat-stock
section, the fats being diverted to other cen-
tres where conditions were better. Canning
and by-product production, however, would
still go on, thus offering a considerable mea-
sure of relief to holders of otherwise unsaleable
stock. Under present conditions these are
left to die in the paddocks, in many in-
stances, transfer not being worth while.
The Graziers aim to benefit the wool-
grower equally with the meat man. Culling
often has to be postponed when Homebush
prices do not justify the railing of the culls
to the Sydney market. The flockmaster de-
cides to keep on for another year the ewes
he would like to have discarded, and that,
means that, the new blood which might have
been introduced is not brought in, and the
quality of his next year’s clip is affected
accordingly. The new scheme promises to
make culling worth while at any state of
the market, thus obviating the eviis of inter-
breeding and overstocking.
Standardisation of all products is one of
the company’s main ideals, a rigid system
of grading on Maoriland lines having been
decided on. The M.L. grading certificates
are accepted the world over. The Austra-
lian Graziers will carry out their final grad-
ings in the Sydney depot, and there is no
reason to suppose that their fiat will not
rank with that of their confreres in M.L.
and the Argentine.
Finally, the company has 15 centres in
N.S.W. to select from when, considering the
location of its works. Nothing, however,
will be done in this regard until flotation
has been completed and the board of direc-
tors elected.
Competition in Proprietary Lines
“Jackaburra” : “Pliilm’s” plea for fixation
of retail selling prices by the manufacturer
that will permit of “legitimate trading” opens
un a question to which there are two sides.
The other side says that it is the manufac-
turer’s business to manufacture, and that
lrn shouldn’t concern himself in the least if
the merchant to whom he sells chooses to
make “legitimate profits” or give the stuff
away. And, anyway, who is the manufac-
turer to set himself up as the judge of what
“legitimate profits” are? Naturally a re-
tailer who runs his business on strictly
business lines, keeping down expenses and
attracting custom by modern methods, can
afford to work on a finer margin than the
slipshod type who keeps no books, accumu-
lates bad debts and finishes up in the Bank-
ruptcy Court.
The question of quantity buying also
enters largely into the matter. A large manu-
facturer of soap and such-like goods, which
by virtue of the fact that they are widely
advertised sell themselves, gives such largo
discounts on large-quantity orders that many
big shops are able to sell to their customers
at a lower price than the very small pur-
chaser has to pay the manufacturer. Surely
the public is entitled to buy at the lower
figure by patronising the big shops.
Take the case of motor tyres. The manu-
facturers’ list prices are now practically
identical, and the discounts allowable to
recognised distributors are uniform. Any
distributor caught selling at less than the
fixed price is promptly blacklisted. Yet the
discounts allowed to the distributors are too
high, and if the restrictions were removed
to-morrow there would be dozens of big dis-
tributors competing for the business at half
the present margin of profit.
The Bulletin has repeatedly stressed
through the present depression that the
superfluous middleman must go. The big-
gest _ obstacle in getting rid of him is this
stupid idea of “protecting” small traders by
the manufacturers. .Cut-throat competition
isn’t much good to anyone, but it won’t
help the manufacturers’ cause to try to bind,
say, Anthony Horderns to sell an article at
the same price as Tim Murphy, who runs
the pub and store at Windy Gully.
Farm Implements
“Machinery Agent”: “Wayback” writes
(B. 19/11/’3O) on the difficulties of secur-
ing duplicate parts for Australian-made
farm implements. I have au ordinary agency
business of a sort to be found in every farm,
ing district, and I carry about £3OO worth
of duplicate parts—stock on consignment,
which is replenished throughout the season.
Does any other trade make such provision
for the convenience of its customers?
From morn till night, especially in the
harvest season, I am at the beck and call
of local farmers, receiving ’phone calls and
personal inquiries, and
nine times out of ten
delivering the parts to
the farmer when he
calls for them. Nor
does such activity cease
at nightfall; I am
quite inured to the
midnight knock that
presages a further visit
to the bins on behalf
of my customers. In
odd cases, when the
farmer’s needs cannot
be supplied from stock,
a telegram or ’phone
call to the manufac-
turers brings the neces-
sary parts by next
day’s passenger train.
Rarely is there delay.
It is realised that
the farmer requires
every help at harvest-
time, and in general
both manufacturer and
coun t r y agent do
their utmost to ensure
prompt supply.
I cannot; understand
“Waybaek's” inability
to get needed machin-
ery parts; and, of
course, I would not
suggest that the cause
lay in unsatisfactory
past dealings, financial
or otherwise.
“Oor Ain Fish Guts”
“Avon”: General de
Presh has invaded
Maoriland with several
battalions of his
veteran shock troops,
but the islanders are
rallying. A healthy
sign is that they are
beginning to trace the
connection between in-
sufficient protection of
manufacturing indus-
tries and the problem
of unemployment. At
a meeting of the
Lower Hiitt Borough
Council the other
night—Lower Hutt is
the swankiest suburb
of Wellington, with a
real live knight, Alec
Roberts, whose dad, a
Dunedinite, also wore
a handle, as its civic
pa—the engineer re-
commended the pur-
chase abroad of some
steel piping for a
sewerage job. The en-
gineer’s only objection
to M.L.-made pipe was
that it cost a bit more
to lay, being made in
shorter lengths than
the imported stuff. The
councillors, most 1 y,
judging by their names,
of Scottish extraction,
weighed the matter
carefully. Eli c i ting
that the locally made
pipes were quite as
durable as the ones
from outside, half a
dozen of them made
remarks to the effect
that the Glasgow
motto that “oor ain
fish guts belong to oor
ain crows” had a
strong bearing on the situation, and the
order went to a Maoriland tenderer.
/-\TT'C!C3rTtT/-v-vTQ aatqwtptjtttv
, QUHiollUNo ANSWERED.
V transferred from, Service Department.)
Would it not be possible on a given date
to reduce everything by half—wages, prices
°f all commodities, bank interest, everything?
Dne reason why The Bulletin is afraid it
couldn t sell itself for 3d. is that Australia
doesn’t yet make any news-print, and the
British paper-makers w T ould probably object
to reduce their price by one-half, seeing that
then- work people wouldn t be on a reduced
wa f?: .
What ts the total war debt of Australia—
external and domestic? Has anything been
paid off, and what and how? How is the
external debt made up? — 3l4a.
The war debt on June 30, 1929, was 194
millions domestic, 93 millions British; totaj
287 millions. To that has to be added 35
millions raised for soldier settlement. The
redemptions total 123 millions, of which
79 millions were raised for redemption, leav-
ing 44 millions paid off out of revenue and
otherwise. The 93 millions British includes
82 millions still due under the funding
arrangement. As to this, Britain lent
Australia 18 millions to go into the war.
Later on a further 31 millions were lent
and 43 millions were paid fcfr the mainten-
ance of Australian troops. Total, 92 mil-
lions. In 1921 an arrangement was made
by which Australia is to pay this by 3»
annual instalments of 6 p.c. on the original
debt. A sinking fund to wipe out the debt
would call for 1 p.c. (or a shade more) p.a.,
leaving 5 p.c. (or a shade less) to represent
interest.
The Bulletin (19/11/’3O) says that the
Aussie £1 note is worth 18s. in Engalnd, and
that a further issue of Australian notes
would further reduce its value. Why? —37o.
1 *
To which may be added :
If the Commonwealth Bank issued 20 mil-
lion notes and paid off a Government loan
with them, ichat would be the result? Would
it not be merely converting one form of Gov-
ernment security into another ?-175.
A Government loan carries interest; notes
do not. Assuming that enough notes are
issued to meet the ordinary demands of
trade, there would be thus, after the new
issue, 20 million notes in excess of those
requirements. They would therefore be got
rid of at the earliest possible moment,
because, while people will keen a note
earning interest, they will want to pass in
a note which earns nothing, and get in
return something which will earn something.
If these notes could not be passed in and
l'edeemed at par and thus withdiawn fioin
circulation, there would be competition to
get r id of them; and competition means cut
pr i ce s. The main difficulty about note in-
flation (that is, the issue of notes in excess
G f ordinary trade requirements) is that
there is nothing except other notes to
redeem them with; so a struggle starts to
get rid of them, and the price falls further
and further as the struggle gets hotter and
hotter
(1) ' If Australia were to ship to England
remaining balance of her gold reserve,
would the dictum of the financiers require
that the whole of her note issue be can-
celled? (2) Would not an increase of the
note issue reduce the grip of the money-
lender on Australia? —32B.
(1) Not necessarily. Sound finance re-
quires that the issued notes shall not exceed
the requirements of ordinary trade; and
whether those requirements have been ex-
ceeded can be measured by the relation of
the note to gold. If the 20s. note is worth
i e ,s s than a sovereign, then there is infla-
tion somewhere. (2) Yes; and so would
the issue of duplicate keys of bank safes
and vaults to creditors. But that is hardly
a good reason for issuing them.
Wool circles brightened a little the other
d when a y an kee buyer gave the season’s
, . . c , ,'
rocor< i prices in Sydney ioi a super l
Riverina clip in the primest condition,
Super wethers brought 28id. and super hog-
Rots 21Jd. For another lot of wethers 20Jd.
was given, while a lot of ewe fleeces ran to
a “£ br ° kcn wool to 15 Jd. The natch
ie ? * n t^ ie J t co
b nsed only 29 bales out of 10,446 o xred.
However, the months sales have shown .
slight rise m average price for the better
sorts, though the general average lias not
been much ahead of the Bd. rate of the
October sales; and, following a cut at the
London sales, December opens weak.
* * * *
The usual enthusiast took the trouble to
. , , . , „„ „ ™ ...
tabulate the m otor-cars at Flemington. on
Cup day. He found 3750 on the parking-
ground, just over 45 per cent, of them shod
with Australian Dunlop-Perdriau tyres. At
the previous year’s horse-carnival 3922 cars
were present. Otherwise the number was
the largest since 1926, when bonnets were
first counted.
A PROPER CHRISTMAS PARTY.
THE WORKER: “There was a time, I’ll admit, when I didn’t earn my dough.”
THE EMPLOYER: “Queer ideas we used to have. I remember I had a had habit of charging as much
for my goods as I could instead of as little.”
THE CONSUMER: “Yes, you old blighter—and wondered why I didn’t patronise you.”


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
HARDLY WORTH MENTIONING.
THE MISSUS: “Maisie seems to be always wrapt in thought these
days.”
THE MAN: “H’m! That’s where she gets her bare ideas from,
is it?”
“Old Unionist” : There will be some dashed
hopes if the N.S.W. Legislative Council falls
on its own sword instead of waiting for
the Lang axe, thereby saving tne State the
cost of free railway passes for life for a.
new lot of abolitionists. Still, the Council s
end seemed almost as certain when
H'olman made his early appointments, yet
Frank Bryant, Jack Travers and co. have
enjoyed their prerogatives for 20 years. One
of the disappointed candidates of that period
is still in the running. His retort when his
ambition was thrown in his teeth is still re-
membered. “Let me tell you, me friend,”
he said with dignity, “that Hi will yet be
a Hem Hell See. Hi hadmit that Hi ham
ha haspirate.”
x x * *
“Mells”: The offer of a Government
reward for the detection of a man who has
outraged and murdered a little girl, or of a
killer of the Jack-tlie-Ripper type, is less
likely to bring results than in other cases
of murder. The bank robber and most
other felons who don’t stick at taking human
life are more likely than not to hunt in
couples, and if they haven’t direct asso-
ciates they will have confidants and sym-
pathisers. But the sex criminal can have
neither, because of the universal repulsion
felt for him, and if no one knows of his
deed it is obvious that there is no one whom
cupidity may tempt to give him away. Admit-
tedly. if blood money had not been placed
on his head, Colin Ross, perhaps the
most loathsome creature who has gone to
the gallows of recent years, would pro-
bably have dodged retribution; but in
that case it was the murderer himself who
opened his mouth too wide after he was
lodged in prison. And some of the mistaken
sympathy he did get came merely from the
consideration that the witnesses on whose
c vidence he was hanged had a direct monetary
interest in his conviction. Mostly the mur-
derous sadist is outside the pale, even the
criminal pale, and therein lies his best pro-
tection.
:!: :|t * *
“Hayes Kop”: A Sydney Judge remarked
last week that he was seriously considering
the addition of the lash to terms of imprison-
ment in the cases of prisoners convicted of
robbery with violence or attempting to rob
taxi-men and tram-conductors. It is pro-
bably the .only penalty that can be relied
upon to end hold-ups. London was terror-
ised by the operations of thugs on the Thames
Embankment until the cat-o’-nine tails was
brought into commission again at the Old
Bailey and other Courts of Justice. Thar
did what no terms of penal servitude could
effect, and the Embankment was soon safe
again. In N. S. Wales the deterrent and
reformative agencies of the lash haven’t been
employed since 1905.
X X X *
“L.M.”: A music-teaching friend of mine
dwelt near a small country school in north-
eastern Tassie, where she endeavored, with
the aid of the parish-hall piano, to unearth
talent. The piano was an instrument
that looked as if it might have dated
back to the days of “His Natural Life,” and
it had obviously sustained some rough usage.
The prize pupil was one day going through
his paces. When he had come to a stuttering
conclusion the teacher observed: “Nicely
played, Herbert, but I didn’t hear the note
before the last.” “No, Miss,” returned the
juvenile Backhaus; “I jobbed ’er, but she
didn’t ’oiler !”
* x * *
“Philm” : The use of the pen-name “Angus
O’Cohen” by a Bulletin contributor re-
minds me that the Ikeys, Abies and Sols of
other days are becoming noticeably rarer
among the Chosen. Examining the class-
rolls of the Perth Hebrew School, I was
struck by the preponderance of Raymonds,
Gilberts, Vivians and Keiths. Similarly,
Sarahs, Rebeccas and Rachels have given wav
to Lornas, Beatrices and Ediths. As in most
cases the surnames have remained typically
Semitic, some of the combinations sound
almost as whimsical as “A. O’C.’s.”
x x * *
“Oxmead”: Periodically some learned
Judge arises (it is an English one this time,
McCardie) to call attention in pained tones
to the increase of
perjury in the wit-
ness-box, and vari-
ous newspapers dis-
cuss the dictum and
deplore the fre-
quency of the mal-
practice and specu-
late on the cause.
The last is, or should
be, obvious enough;
it is the inadequacy
of the formula de-
signed to make wit-
nesses tell the truth,
in an age of weaken-
ing religious beliefs
and revised views of
a material hell and
eternal punishment.
Probably no form of
words that could be
devised would make
perjury less frequent
nowadays. It was
different 50 years
ago, and even more
different a few cen-
turies ago. Wynd-
ham Lewis, Fran-
cois Villon’s latest
biographer, points
out that in the lax
and licentious Middle
Ages even hardened
criminals shrank
from perjury in any
but the direst straits.
“There was a belief
that a lie told on
oath carried with it
not only temporal
punishment but what
was then considered
a very much worse
one. We have since
altered all that.” We
have —but it is diffi-
cult to suggest what
the Law can do
about it.
“2nd Divvy”: The slump is producing
some cadgers who are new to me, and I
have been cadged from in Sydney for over
a quarter of a century. One artist called
the other day in the make-up of a prosperous
farmer. Hard, bronzed face, clear eyes that
one could imagine gazing out over illimitable
plains, large, work-hardened hands, the kind of
good though rough clothes that farmers
usually wear. An absurd thing had hap-
pened to him. He had come to town with
some colleagues from Back o’ Bourke to see
the Minister about a wheat scheme they had
put a few thousands into, had lost his
friends, and now was actually stuck for a
five-pound note! His reason for calling was
that we had served in France together. I
remembered him, didn’t I? Name of Bun-
kim. Jim Bunkim. I didn’t, but said I
did to save argument. Fortunately for my
bank account I had only a 10s. note and
some silver on me. I proffered the note,
which he took with a bucolic laugh. “You’ll
hear from me to-morrow,” he cried,
waving from the door like the cheery,
simple-natured agriculturist he was sup-
posed to be, “without fail.” I didn’t hear
from him—only of him. He had visited a
DEMOBBED.
BROWN: “Yes, each of them thought the other was rich, and soon’s they got married
they both, found they had fallen in.”
ROBINSON: “Well, what did they do about it?”
B.: “Why, fell out, of course.”
number of ex-soldiers of my acquaintance
with the same yarn, and only crashed with
one, who, when claimed as a comrade-in-
arms on several bloody fields in Flanders,
pointed out that he had done all his war
service in Australia, A 4th Divvy ex-padre
(completely bogus, of course) is said to be
doing well, and I have heard of one genius
who has got several stumer cheques cashed
.by making himself up as George Judah
Cohen, top hat, car, and all complete. If
Sir Philip Game himself calls on me while
this depression is on he will risk being
thrown out with violence unless he can pro-
duce his credentials on the spot.
* * *
“Meteren”: In the last 15 years three
“Highland” steamers of the Nelson line have
piled up on the frowning rocks south. of the
Bay of Biscay, the last being the Highland
Hope. The inter-State steamer Karoola did
one of the fastest sprints of her career
when, as a hospital ship, she responded to an
SOS from the Highland Warrior, wedged in
the rocks a little further north than the latest
wreck. It was about the same time of year,
and the Karoola had to feel her way towards
the shore through a blanket of fog,, being
kept in touch with the wreck by wireless.
Ultimately her winches lifted the Highland
Warrior’s passengers, a few at a time in a
basket, from lifeboats on to her decks, while
the peasantry gazed down from the high
cliffs, unable to render any practical assist-
ance.
* * * *
“Sucre”: I don’t know why so much sym-
pathy is being expressed for debtors con-
fined' in Long Bay for neglecting to comply
■with wife-maintenance orders. All that a
temporarily embarrassed confinee need do
to get out of this establishment is to file his
schedule in bankruptcy. If he omits to
do this, one can only conclude that he pre-
fers to stay there.
x * * *
“Gad”: During the eight years I have
spent in N. S. Wales I have carried my
swag over a good part of it. My first job
was breaking stones somewhere near Taree.
I got ten shillings from a cow-cocky for
“clearing up his place”—a mere 100
acres. I have sunk postholes and put posts
in them at the rate of sixpence a post. I
have rolled wool for a New England squat-
ter and left with 12 quid in my pocket. I
was hired for a voyage to Canada and back as
a steward, mainly, I think, on the strength
of a certificate that showed I had once held
a commission in a Dragoon regiment. In
the city I have been a tutor at 30 bob a
week for two years, and a clerk for a rather
longer period, after which I wrote advertis-
ing copy for a firm that went bung in 1929.
I have held down all sorts of odd jobs for
brief periods, from being caretaker of an
empty house (a haunted one at that) to
camping for two nights on a suburban garden
to scare off boys who annoyed a rich maiden
lady by making raids on her ’possums. Last
winter I went rabbiting, and made five
bob a week at it. All this I have endured
without a murmur. But one night in. October,
when I was standing on a soap-box in Bal-
main and expounding Nationalist doctrine,
a loafer raised his voice above the
howling to hurl at me the taunt, “I don t
believe you’ve ever worked in your life.
That broke me up.
* * ❖ *
“Morimoto”: A new wave of feminism is
sweeping over Nippon, and the traditional
modesty of Japanese women is going
down before it. In a recent issue of an illus-
trated paper appeared some photographs of
an improved dance for geishas. In one pic-
ture the shy damsels were represented danc-
ing a hooehy-coochy in straw hats and noth-
ing else worth mentioning. In another a
bevy of femininity was lying on the groun'd
waving its rather plump extremities in the
atmosphere. Matrimonial ads. reflect the
modern tendency. Here is a typical example :
“I am a beautiful woman. My curly hair
covers me like a wave. My figure is suppie
as a reed, my skin soft as silk. I possess a
large enough fortune to go through life safely
with my beloved. If I were fortunate enough
to meet an honorable man, well-bred and in-
telligent, I would remain united with him
and would happily share with him eternal
repose in a tomb of rose-colored marble.”
The reference to the tomb is no conventional
figure of rhetoric. Love suicides have enor-
mously increased since Japan got her issue
of the economic depression.
X X * *
“Quis”: Dr. Ewan Frazer (B. 26/11/’3O)
died at sea, and his body was buried at sea,
it is understood by his own express wish.
Evidently he had no use for the magnificent
family vault, one of the landmarks of Rook-
wood cemetery. It was built on the death of
the doctor’s father, John Frazer. The
cost of this towering monument of sand-
stone and marble is said to have been
£lO,OOO. Sixty people can stand comfortably
inside, and the upkeep of the mausoleum is
provided by perpetual endowment.
x x x *
“Feng-Shui”: While Japanese statesmen
continue to demand equal rights for their
nationals abroad, they deny the most elemen-
tary rights to over two millions of their fellow-
countrymen, the eta. Recently a military
officer espoused the cause of these outcasts,
and he was forced to resign from the army.
Most Japanese assert that the eta are a dif-
ferent race —in fact, another name for them
is hinin, or non-human; but the tradition
that they are descendants of Korean prison-
ers of war and other theories have been de-
stroyed by the historians, who have shown
that they are as Japanese as the rest of
their compatriots. They owe their extraordi-
nary position to the fact that 800 years ago
they assumed the task of preparing bodies
for burial and of attending on mortuary
practices generally. Until Buddhism brought
a saner creed death was regarded as pollu-
tion, and even palaces had to be burned
down when emperors died in them. The eta
have since beep granted full status, but pre-
judice dies hard, and no orthodox Japanese
will permit an alliance with the “defiled
ones.” The police object to polluting them-
selves by arresting them, so they are left
to manage their own affairs in segregated
communities. Recently the despised caste
formed a political union and attempted to
secure Parliamentary representation. The
only result was a number of conflicts in
which several hundreds were killed or
wounded.
THE OLD HULKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
All among the mangroves
The Old li’ulks lie,
Dreaming on the “river”
As the tugs pass by;
Fore-an’-afts and trawlers,
Barquentines and brigs,
Square ships and schooners,
And all sorts of rigs,
' Pitching yarns together
Of the Old Brave Days
When all were manned by sailor-men
And ploughed the ocean ways! -
The Tramp.
“Runnin’ guns was my trade,
At fifty pounds a score.
Always doused the binnacle
Before we neared the shore.
Captain Kettle, K.C.8.,
Was my commander then,
With Neil McTodd for engineer
An’ forty fightin’ men !”
The Crack Packet.
“J was a fancy ship,
The clipper Nancy Lee,
Built at Hall’s in Aberdeen,
Furnished in Dundee.
Steel hull and painted ports,
Full poop as well;
Cabin lined with satin-wood,
And silver in my bell.
Ladies danced on my decks
When stars were shining bright,
And harp and flute and violin
Made music in the night.”
Tiie Tea-clipper.
“I hailed from China ports
With all holds full;
Tea, rice and Java goods,
And rum for Liverpool.
Chinese pirates cleared me out,
Abandoned me at sea.
Now I’m for the breaker’s yard,
And that’s the end of me!”
The Blackbirder.
“I sailed from Suva
In the palmy Island days,
With a cargo of Kanakas
Under Captain Bully Hayes....
But God bless the Navy!
They ran me down at last
And sold me for my copper-work,
And now I’m hard and fast.”
Chorus.
“But we all roamed the sea ways
With seamen on our decks!
And some were sunk,
And some were sold,
And now we’re rotting wrecks.
Yet, when the winds are piping high
And breakers lash the shore,
The ghost of Jan
The chanty-man
Sings ‘Blow, Boys, Blow!’ once more!”
S.A.
CHARLES HENRY SOUTER.


“L.M.”: Snorky was always regarded as
the most conscientious man in our company.
The reputation was fastened on. him after
he had been a member of a raiding party
which, after some successful work in the
enemy trenches, received the order to retire
“silently and expeditiously.” Snorky retired
so quietly as well as rapidly that in his flight
he stumbled and tripped over a hare in its
form. “Get out of the road,” he was
heard to mutter reproachfully as the animal
melted into the night, “and let a man run
that can run !”
* * * !l:
“D.”: Watching the rioting near the
Shakspeare statue at the entrance to
Sydney Domain last week I wondered
whether the autocratic method of deal-
ing with popular demonstrations which
is relied on by the Soviet, French
and Italian Governments isn’t more humane
in the long run than ours. In the course of
a couple of minutes’ bashing and counter-
bashing an inordinate amount of agony must
have been distributed in the form of smashed
teeth, broken noses, concussions and cracked
skulls. And all to no purpose. Paris and
Rome, which have modelled their methods
of handling mobs on those of Moscow, haven’t
had any bloodshed in the streets for years.
ALONE.
“Are you sure you love me and me alone?
“Oh, yes, darling! More then than at any other time.”
Under what is known as the “Russian sys-
tem” concerted movements of protest against
the Government are checked at birth. Two
years ago I watched a long-advertised
attempt to start a general strike in Paris
as a registration of disapproval of Poincare-
ism, and in the course of a morning’s motor-
ing about the city and suburbs didn’t see a
gendarme and citizen so much as push each
other. The Government had forbidden
crowds to assemble or march, and had taken
steps to have the order obeyed. In London
just previously I had seen 500 police de-
tailed to accompany a march of the unem-
ployed. Suburban burglars and sneak-
thieves reaped a rich harvest, and in spite
of the size of the police guard there were
clashes. How much more sensible if the
Government had said to the leaders of the
unemployed: “You won’t be allowed to
organise marches of protest, on the same
principle as private citizens aren’t allowed
to own and let off 18-pounders or howitzers.”
A crowd in marching order can be just, as
dangerous as a field-gun in the wrong hands.
❖ * * *
“Farleigh”: Climate assuredly has much
or everything to do with mendicancy (B.
26,/11/’3O) —open, unashamed, professional
alms-beseeching, that is. But for a beggar-
infested place I would back Funchal
(Madeira) in proportion to its population
against Naples or any other city in Europe—
Madeira ranks as part of continental Por-
tugal, though it is nearer Africa. And there
can hardly be an island with a finer climate
or such glorious scenery in the world, which
is why the mendicant horde, largely crip-
pled or deformed, make such a blot on it. If
Naples has really got rid of its beggars,
1 suppose there is hope for Funchal —"when
Portugal can raise a Mussolini.
$ H* ♦
“Ibn el Issar”: That allegedly new
fashion of lacquering the finger-nails red (B.
5/11/’3O) is as old as the immemorial East,
It is universal among Moslem and Hindu
women, the decorative process beginning
when the subject is of marriageable age. In
most cases the toenails are also treated
to complete what I understand is known in
dressmaking circles as the ensemble. No
lady would be reckoned a Bright Young Thing
without the addition of henna to the
nails and kohl to the eyelashes, and the
bridegroom upon whom a damsel without
these adjuncts to beauty was foisted would be
considered as having just grounds for divorce.
Similarly, in some parts of Papua and in
Fiji it used to be quite hopeless for a lady
to aspire to matrimony until she had under-
gone certain ceremonial tattooing of a pain-
ful but imperative nature.
:is * * *
“Meteorite”; Some months ago a party of
26 unemployed left Perth on a projected
hunger march to Canberra. What coneeiv-
able object they hoped to effect by
it is hard to say, but the West-
ralian press gave them plenty of
publicity, and generous fettling
gangs on the Trans, railway sup-
plied them with tucker. The party
presently split up, the vanguard of
eight arriving at Wynbring, 270
miles from Port Augusta, in a
pitiably footsore condition. In
order to get a lift over the next
stage they broke several windows
and otherwise damaged railway
property, with the result that they
were arrested and given a free ride
to Port Augusta, where they re-
ceived a week’s imprisonment
apiece. Refreshed by the rest the
hunger marchers have since continued their
self-imposed journey.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: One of the brightest chapters
in British imperialism was closed the other
day when Sir Reginald Johnston handed
Weihaiwei hack to China in accordance with
the findings of the long-deceased Washing-
ton conference. The delay was due to diffi-
culty in locating the Government of China.
Weihaiwei was occupied in 189 S to counter
Russia’s seizure of
Port Arthur; but it
was never fortified.
It became a summer
resort for British
warships. mission-
aries and the wives
and children of Brit-
ish residents else-
where in China. The
area is criss-crossed
with fine thorough-
fares, and there are
administrative build-
ings erected by the
British Government
at a merely nominal
cost to the Chinese.
The rendition cere-
mony was given a
dramatic touch by a
presentation to the
British Commis-
sioner from grateful
Celestial villagers. It
took the form of a
plain white bowl
filled with pure
water as a token of
the purity and in-
tegrity of the late
administration. John-
ston himself is a man
worthy to rank in
Chinese history with
Hart and our own
Dr. Morrison. A
brilliant student of
native lore and
Buddhism, he is the
author of several im-
portant works, in-
cluding a witty ex-
position of the
Chinese attitude to-
wards missionising.
Like Morrison, John-
ston was fond of slip-
ping out of his offi-
cial garb into that of
a Chinese coolie and
tramping about the
Flowery Kingdom.
One of his most
romantic jobs was
that of tutor to the
deposed Manchu emperor, whom he taught
to use a typewriter.
“Weka”: The Lora Gorge murder was
an unsolved Maoriland mystery for 38 years;
a death-bed confession has revealed to
authority the perpetrator’s identity. In
1892 Richard _ Bell, a man of 46, was
shot at midnight at his own gate by
someone who later destroyed all tracks
by walking down the Lora stream. The
police detailed to investigate the crime found
themselves up against a community who “had
not the English,” and had all to be interro-
gated in Gaelic; and neither bloodhounds nor
black trackers were of any avail. The gun
was found, but the owner was never identi-
fied, even the English makers failing to be
of assistance on the point. An uncle of the
victim was arrested, but never tried, and the
Government reward remained unclaimed.
From the dying man’s confession it is now
clear that the murderer lay in wait and
smoked for hours before his victim came
home. Though names have been suppressed it
has been admitted that the confession came
from an unexpected source. Religious feel-
ing was always suspected as the motive.
SPOKE OUT OF HIS TURN.
HEROINE ( out in the snow, father murdered, hero arrested, Little Willie stolen): “Ah,
what have I to live for now?”
PREMATURE VENDOR'S VOICE: “Chocolates, caramels or jubes, sixpence and a shillun
a bag.”
“Merri” : Australia’s oldest inhabitant, in
point of residence, is a Chinaman in the
St. Joseph’s Home for Old People at North-
cote (Vic.). H'e answers to the name of
Edward Carey and claims to be 102, the
claim being supported by some documentary
evidence. He was* adopted when an infant
by Captain E. Truscott, who brought him
by sailing-ship from China to Sydney in
1828. Here he was baptised by Father
Therry (Australia’s first R.C. priest) and
in later years confirmed by Bishop Polding.
After leaving school at Miller’s Point Carey
went to sea, and for many years worked on
ships in the Sydney-M.L. trade.
***. . . *
“Jobber”: Impersonation of individuals in
Civil Service examinations -may be impos-
sible (B. 19/11/’3O), but I have seep it
dene in connection with soldiering. When
my brother, a Boer War volunteer, passed
the riding test for the N.S.W. Mounted
Rifles, his services were immediately re-
quisitioned by three of his cobbers, who
•were not confident that their exhibi-
tion of horsemanship would get them
through. My brother obliged them and
the deception was carried out success-
fully. The queerest part of it was that the
judge was an uncle of ours, who at that
time was reckoned one of the best horsemen
in the country. The old man was evidently
not interested in the riders’ faces, confining
his attention to hands and seat.
* * *
“Pimm”: The West Indian cricketers
speak as good English as any of the white
subjects of the Empire. So of course
did most of their compatriots whom we met
in France, although Bill, who, after being
on Gallipoli and in Egypt, fancied his lin-
guistic abilities in dealing with any of our
dark-skinned allies, didn't discover it till he
encountered a British West India A.S.C.
driver at the Base Depot, Havre. Bill had
just lobbed in from the convalescent camp
and was looking for the q.-m’s store. “Com-
pree Quack Emma store?” he demanded.
Receiving no answer, except a polite stare,
Bill tried again. “Savee store belong Quar-
termaster?” The reply arrived this time in
English as perfect as any that ever came out
of Oxford. “If it is the q.-m. store you
wish to be directed to you will find it in the
next road on the left.” Bill staggered away.
* -I* * *
“Shep”: Communists are claiming that,
owing to their activities, Balmain _ (Sydney)
property-owners are becoming afraid to evict
tenants, but as a matter of fact a previously
unheard-of consideration for occupiers is
being manifested in quite fashionable suburbs.
Not for years have there been so many
empty houses and flats, and owners are
realising that a tenant, even if he cannot
pay rent, is a protection against the thieving
and vandalism which unoccupied property
invites. In the city, too, agents are holding
out all sorts of baits to likely clients to fill
up empty shops and offices. No rent for a
couple of months and even the costs of
moving thrown in aren’t unusual. I know
of one tenant temporarily paying a shilling
a week for a shop on a central city street
frontage, simply because his occupation gives
a more prosperous look to the rest of the
shops in the building.
“Feng-Sliui” : Missiondom in China is all
agog over the conversion of President Chiang
Kai-shek to Christianity. Chiang gave
earnest consideration to all forms of reli-
gion, including Islam and Christian Science,
and decided that Christianity was the
best. Among other things he found that it
did not conflict with nationalism, the ethics
of big business and China’s alleged need of
a big army and navy—all objectives of Hm
party he represents. Consequently he went
to Shanghai and was quietly baptised by. a
Chinese pastor at the Young Allen Memorial
Church, later leaving for Ningpo, where the
tombs of his family are located, to acquaint
his ancestors with the step. Three of
the Flowery Kingdom’s leading war lords
now belong to the Christian communion.
Missionary bodies are now full of hope that
the Kuomintang will change its policy of
blocking the activities of foreign Christian
schools, but up to date there is not the slight-'
est sign of this. The Chinaman has no in-
tolerance for the native brand of Christianity.
It is the imported variety that makes him
see red. Chiang’s move is probably a far-
sighted realisation of the fact; that Con-
fucianism, with its doctrine of gentlemanly
inactivity and pacifism, is no good for a
nation eager to industrialise itself.
* * * :j
“ J.H.M.A.”; Writing to N.S.W. Governor
King in 1803 from near what is now Sorrento
(Vic.), Lieut.-Governor Collins mentioned
some convicts who had taken, to the bush.
One of these was Buckley, later to become
notorious as the “wild white man’’; with him
went a Scotch lad. “I can hardly suppose,”
wrote Collins, “that Buckley would attempt
to cross to Port Jackson, but as he knows
nothing of my intended removal, I fear if he
docs not return before it takes place, that
the death of himself and his companion must
be the inevitable result of liis imprudence.”
Curiously different was the fate of the two
escapees. The Scotch lad returned to camp,
took his flogging philosophically, and after-
wards became a model citizen on the other
side of Bass Strait. He prospered exceed-
ingly. Buckley, on the other hand, stayed
with Binghi for 32 years, and after his
return to civilisation finished up in
Hobart as a somewhat useless pensioner
who had not even been able to give a coherent
account of the most interesting part of his
career.
“Trevdee”: One of the candidates for the
Caulfield (Vic.) Assembly seat forced his
policy on the man in the street by the use
of two loud-speakers on the roof of a
sedan car. He could be heard in three dif-
ferent places, and for about 200 yards each
way. Interjections troubled him not, and
he didn’t even have to raise his voice above
ordinary speaking strength.
* * * *
“Esters”: When the cloud of prohibition
descended on America 11 years ago in the
form of the Volstead Act, the great Cali-
fornian grape-growing and wine-making
interests announced their intention of com-
plying with the law and manufacturing only
harmless grape-juice. After years of bewil-
derment over the fact that, while grape-juice
increased in popularity the standard
of insobriety steadily mounted, the Rev. Dr.
True Wilson, head of the Methodist Board
of Temperance, Prohibition and Public
Morals —what a truly American combina-
tion ! —has found out the reason and made it
public. It is that, with a little cool storage
and judicious encouragement to fermenta-
tion, grape-juice converts itself into a para-
lysing form of hootch at short notice. As
the doctor sadly observes, “They put this
grape-juice business over on us while wo
were asleep at the switch.”
THE GLASGOW ACCENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Dr. Boyd Scott, lecturing at Sydney on Scottish
poetry, claimed that the Glasgow tongue was the
nearest thing in Europe to the music of the Italian
speech; the people of Glasgow detested all the harsh
and biting consonants which made English a thing
of spikes and bristles.”
O tongue that our poets have built on
Till witched was the world with their
feats!
O grandeur of Shakspeare and Milton!
O music of Shelley and Keats!
From the land of the heather (and thistles)
A shaft of disparagement strikes;
They tell us you’re stubbly with bristles
And studded with spikes.
Italian's the language of lovers
With its melting, melodious words;
When nightingales trill in the coverts
You list to the language of birds;
But. rough as the croak of the; raven
The pipe of the linnet beside
Is the speech of the Thames or the Avon
To that of the Clyde.
There are “t’S” that our fluency fetter
By the Trent and the Tees. By the Tay
Long since they've decided it’s better
(Or be’er) to clip them away.
A word like “potato” will show you
From the harsh and unmusical south
(In Glesca ’tis sounded as though you
Had one in your mouth).
We have harps. But the bagpipes can say
more.
Hark the swish and the skirl of the
vowels,
Suggestive of sounds when a claymore
Drove home in a Highlander’s bowels.
For singers with accents that ravish,
And statesmen with gift of the gab,
What an asset’s the speech of McTavish,
The tongue of McNab!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


A DOUBLE HAT-TRICK'
Both in 1929 and 1930 the three greatest International
Road Races for standard cars were won on Shell Oil
and Spirit. By these decisive victories in some of the
most gruelling road tests ever Shell gains
the double “hat trick” laurels.
Le Mans Grand Prix 1929 and 1930
Junior Car Clubs “Double 12 hr5.”1929 and 1930
Irish Grand Prix 1929 and 1930
were all won by cars fuelled and lubricated by Shell.
5.1106
ms
m.
s
u
\ T.
SHELL OIL and SPIRIT
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The number of Diggers in Vic. Assembly
has been increased by one by the election
of Lud Mayor Luxton. His dad was in
the Uppish House in the early part of this
century. Ivnox is the only other M.L.A.
who shares this distinction with him.
Veteran Laborite Jack West has been a
stolid rather than an inspiring figure in
Federal politics since he won the East Syd-
ney seat in 1910. Repeated attempts have
been made to oust West at pre-selection
ballots, and they are being renewed in antici-
pation of an election next year. The old
man, now well over 70, was secretary to
Trades and Labor Council close upon 50
years ago, and has been a battler for union-
ism all his life, although he became a
master-plumber.
Edward Wittenoom, Westralia’s oldest
knight, was an enterprising young squatter
not quite out of his twenties when
he was first returned to the Leg. Council in
1883, before there was such a thing as an
Assembly. He dropped out for eight years to
devote himself to business later on; but
for that spell and a term in London as
Agent-General he has been a member ever
since. He reached his highest point as a
politician in 1897 when he was Acting-
Premier while John Forrest went to England
for the Queen’s Diamond Jubilee festivities.
“Pershore”: Sir Philip Game, although he
came to Sydney from a country house at
Ilminster in Somerset, is Worcestershire by
birth. So was our late visitor Earl Beau-
champ, who owns a few thousand acres of
the county, and who started his public life
by becoming Mayor of Worcester at 23. Act-
ing Q.-G. Somers comes of a neighboring
Herefordshire clan, but the family seat is
only a few miles over the border, and he has
played for Worcestershire in first-class cricket.
Altogether the county of hops and plums has
been well represented in Australia of late.
Its most famous public man is, of course,
Stanley Baldwin, who is every bit as proud
of his shire as the Frondes and Kingsleys used
to be of Devon.
Judge (Acting Justice) WASLEY, who pre-
sided at the trial of Buckley in Mel-
bourne last week.
Lavington Bonython, retiring Mayor of
Adelaide, got a handsome and unexpected
tribute on his final appearance in the chair
from that stalwart Laborite A. A. Edwards.
The policy of his party, remarked Edwards,
was not in favor of knighthoods, but “in
view of the work of the Mayor and Mayoress
for three years in the cause of charity, no
one would quarrel seriously with the Gov-
ernment if a recommendation was made in
this case.”
Sam Cohen, who was unanimously elected
president of Sydney Citizens’ Reform Asso-
ciation last week, is George Judah's son,
and hence a blood member of the Cohen-
Levy-Phillips group, whose members control
millions sterling all over Australia and in
Britain. Sam is a fair, burly, eupeptic,
smiling individual in the early fifties, who
travels in trams, deposits himself in any old
seat at a cricket match or picture show, and
behaves in all other respects as if he hadn’t
unlimited means. Members of his family,
like the Rothschilds, have so much money,
and have had it for so long, that they have
forgotten, how to be purse-proud, if they
ever knew. He is an effective speaker in
a racy, easy-going style; an orthodox Jew
(he was at one time president of the Great
Synagogue), and what is known as a “true
Christian,” inasmuch as he works for and
helps financially a vast number of charities.
The Crippled Children’s Association is his
favorite.
Of all Lang’s
followers his Min-
ister for Edu-
cation, Wi 1-
liam Davies,
grows the best
roses, and
would take
either first or
second prize
for “neatest
and best-
dressed.” H'e was
a young coalminer
before he got the
Wollongong seat
after the conscrip-
tion split, and
thereafter he dotted
his party i’s and
crossed his party
t’s with so mucii
care that when
Lang made him his
Minister for Edu-
cation in the fam-
ous “Scabinet”
most members said
it was a very good
choice. It is a
queer thing about
Lang that the men
who stick closest
to him are those
you’d expect to
have the least lik-
N.S.W. Education
Minister DAVIES.
ing for his abominable manners.
Harold Luxton, the new member for Caul-
field in Vic. Assembly, is not the first Lud
Mayor of Melbourne the House has held.
Sam Gillott, the first civic head to be me-
ludded, was member for East Melbourne at
the time; later he became Attorney-General.
Weedon was in the Assembly and afterwards
in the Upper House. Malcolm McEacharn
was Mayor of Melbourne and M.H.R. for
it until Dr. Maloney captured the seat from
him.
Archdeacon Boyce, who has given up offi-
cial church work in Sydney at the age of
86. has been in the public eye for nearly 40
years as a temperance advocate, an Imperial-
ist and a sponsor of old-age and invalid
pensions. He was also one of N.S.W.’s
earliest Protectionists. He was president of
the N.S.W. Alliance in ’92, when drunken-
ness was rife throughout the State, and par-
ticularly in Sydney, and of the British
Empire League 10 years later, when Im-
perialism meant a good deal more than it
does nowadays. He is a tall, spare, rugged-
featured divine who has been fighting against
one vested interest or another all his adult life,
but has never incurred any block enmities of
a political, social or sectarian nature —a great
tribute to the clean, though stiff, battles
he always put up. His son, the K.C., was
Attorney-General in the late Bavin Adminis-
tration. The Archdeacon married for the
second time 10 years ago, and means to
spend his closing days at Blackheath, in the
Blue Mountains.
Menzies, Iv.C., is the only member of Vic.
Assembly who has been an M.L.C. No pre-
sent member of the House of Landlords has
had a seat in the Assembly.
Ernest Piddington, who died in a Sydney
suburb last week, was in many ways the
antithesis of his brother, the president of
the Industrial Commission. He was a strong
Conservative, and keenly sensitive to the
opinion of people in his own circle. “Piddo."
of course, has always taken a gentlemanly
but somewhat malicious pleasure in being
different, politically and otherwise, from his
friends. That was why the Bar bluffed him
off the High Court Bench nearly 20 years
ago, an event which caused Ernest Pidding-
ton anguish. Ernest, who was a receiving
teller in the Commercial Bank, resembled his
famous brother in being a discriminating
lover of books and a churchman.
“Wykeham”: The Marquis of Winchester,
who has gone bankrupt and “left England
to live permanently in France,” became in-
volved in the Ilatry companies at the same
time as S.A.’s late Governor Sir Archibald
Weigall. Like Sir Archibald, he was a well-
meaning nonentity who suffered from an
honest delusion that he was a financier of
ability. Ilatry and his colleagues used theii
weakness to fleece thousands of those gullible
Britons who believe that any company with
titled men on the board is safe. Actually, the
Marquis was little better off than Weigall,
who had been an estate-agent before he
married the heiress of the Blundell Maple
fortune. The first peer was one of the
executors of Henry Vll.’s will, and reputed
to be the third richest man in England at
the time of his death, but the family has been
on the down-grade financially for over a
century.
J. C. Lowry, assistant chief inspector in
the Vic. Education Department, retires this
year, and will be missed. In literary ability
he had no superior in the department, and
the reading-circle movement owes much to
him. He was chairman of the committee
responsible for the new school-readers.
Henry Lawson, wdiose autobiog. is
featured on to-day’s Red Page, though not
much of a scholar, was nevertheless quite a
literary prude in his way. Henry’s special
abhorrence was the misuse of “verbal.”
Whenever he found a daily paper or any-
body else using that word instead of “oral”
or “word-of-mouth,” he would alternately
rage and snigger for half a day. “Looking
at it from another angle” also made him boil
—“as though,” he would explode, “an angle
were a point,” which, incidentally, some dic-
tionary-makers say it is. But, then, you
couldn’t comfortably argue with Henry.
A fine old Methodist was W. A. Langsford,
dead in Adelaide at 7S. He was one of the
first students admitted into Prince Alfred’s
School and Adelaide University, before enter-
ing the ministry of his persuasion (in which
his father had been a local preacher for half a
century). He was president of its Confer-
ence in 1898, and, after Chief Justice Way
had persuaded all the Wesleyan bodies to
unite, president again of the united body.
For many years he was treasurer of its
training-college and a chaplain at the Adel-
aide Hospital.
According to present arangements Evatt,
K.C., will be senior counsel for the defence
in the Theodore-Mungana case. To that end
he was admitted to the Queensland Bar last
week. His junior will be Ross Philp, a son
of J.A., one of The Bulletin’s early sub-
editors.
Thousands of gardens throughout Aus-
tralia have benefited by the horticultural
skill of old Jacob Ivnaus, now gone into re-
tirement at an advanced age. Knaus was
in charge of the orchids and hot-house plants
at the Crystal Palace exhibition in London
52 years ago, when Thomas Elder, of Adel-
aide, happened to be a visitor. Elder bought
the whole exhibit, which came to Australia,
with Knaus in charge. Seven years later
Jacob moved on to Sydney, where he estab-
lished a nursery at Guildford.
Captain W. Keasley, who recently took the
City of Evansville out of Melbourne with "one
of the largest cargoes of wool that ever
left Victoria, has covered 14 million nautical
miles without accident and has crossed the
equator 97 times. The last-named record
can’t compare with that of an Australian
planter in Pontianak, Borneo, who crosses
it 50 times before breakfast; but the. line
happens to run through his bungalow veran-
dah. Captain Keasley has a collection of
stamps which places him in the first rank
of philatelists. • He has 20,000 examples.
Wickens, at the moment the white-haired
boy of the Federal Government, is one of the
WICKENS, the
Statistician.
best human moles
in the Common-
wealth. He
was in Perth
nine years
(1897 - 1906)
and nobody
knew him out-
side his office;
then shifting
to Melbourne
as Knibbs’s
assistant, he was
only a name to all
but one small
group of statisti-
cians and another
small group of
bowlers. He started
life as a boy on a
farm outside Ben-
digo and, barring
perhaps the first
three years of his
life—it began in
1872 —he has had
his nose buried in
a book ever since.
In his younger
days he got his
recreation in study-
ing for actuarial
exams.; now, when
he is tired of read-
in g or writing
about Tweedledum,
he just switches over to Tweedledee.
Aloysius Doherty, who recently died full
of years and honor at Lagos in West Africa,
was probably the blackest wearer of a Hiber-
nian moniker who ever lived. How he
derived his name has never been satisfac-
torily explained, but he made it notable by
piling up a fortune of £600,000. He was a
mighty trader among his own people, and
his name was a household word in Liverpool,
which has always been the headquarters of
the West African trade. There is no lack
of heirs to the Doherty riches, for he left 10
widows and 54 children. He received
prominent notice in the late Sir Harry John-
son's memoirs, and was exceedingly proud
of it.
SYD DAMER, editor oj Adelaide
“Register Pictorial.”
YV. H. Cummins, who is to take charge
of Brisbane “Telegraph” as general manager,
is a Tasmanian who for 31 years has been
on the Hobart “Mercury” and “Mail”; he
has been g.-m. for nine years. He has been
president of Hobart Chamber of Commerce
and the Institute of Accountants. He is
rising 50.
Mrs. Elizabeth Bartley, dead recently in
Melbourne at 87, was the mother of three
priests and three nuns, a doctor and six other
children. She was formerly a teacher, as
was her late husband, in Vic. Education
Department.
Lawyer H. I. Cohen is one of the few.
members of the Vic. Leg. Council who occa-
sionally drop a raisin of humor into the
stodgy pudding of debates. “Among lawyers,”
he remarked the other day, “there is a toast,
‘Here’s to the man who makes his own will.’
An equally good toast for the members of
my profession is ‘Here’s to legislation passed
in the closing hours of a session.’ ”
“Jeames” : Cabled that “Lord Brotlierton,
whose death was announced on October 21.
left an estate valued at £1,750,000.” It's
v. fleabite compared with most of the great
fortunes of the land of Freetrade, where
you find almost uncountable wealth at the top
of the tree and starvation round the roots; Of
Britain’s 500-and-odd millionaires Solly Joel
is said to be worth at least £40,000,000.
There are Rothschilds, Sassoons and Eller-
manns in the £25,000,000 class, and Lords
Rothermere and Beaverbrook are £15,000,000
men. And then there are landed proprietors
like the Duke of Westminister (approx.
£200,000 p.a.) and the Marquis of Bute,
who draws £lOO,OOO p.a. from Cardiff rents
alone, and would have the right to present to
nine Anglican livings if he wasn’t a Catholic.
“10-2-4”: A couple of Dickensian char-
acters with the rare gift of making every-
thing they touch amusing got into the cables
last week. I happen to have seen both in
action, so to speak. Charles Levine, the
so-called “millionaire trans-Atlantic flier,”
who was arrested on suspicion of counterfeit-
ing in Austria, is a small, mercurial, voluble
Yankee Jew. He isn’t a flier —merely a flier's
passenger. H'e paid to be taken on a trans-
Atlantic flight three years ago. and then had
a mysterious row with his pilots, which lie
conducted, mostly in the papers, from Paris
to London and back again. Some Americans
question his wealth, but all agree about his
capacity for getting into the news. I con-
fidently expect to hear that he has paid the
impoverished Austrian Government to arrest
him. F. A. Mitchell-Iledges, who was made
co-re. by an eccentric baronet on the day
Levine was arrested, got mixed up in a
comic assault case near London aboub the
time Levine was last before the British
public. He is a large, solemn-faced, loud-
voiced, bellow-dramatic being, whose creden-
tials as an explorer were strongly attacked
in the K.8.D., the suggestion being that he
was a blend of Munchausen and De Rouge-
mont. His cross-examination, which was
designed to show that he had himself staged
the motor hold-up and robbery complained of,
caused roars of laughter in court. An under-
takerisli dignity is his strong suit.


T 3
A
>r
v>>
Erg
O
O
m
<9
If >
Us-Mu
Ao -« 3 *
c"-''' N »Er*t*
SSfe
':-jm
o
c ssse
? '
ys
A
k A
v"
vT
0>
A
3fc?^
vT
o>
«V 1 '
®3te
£=
ttm
O
J
%
c>
o>
o
%
O
0>
O'
<>
N>>
’N*
O
O'.
V- .
A
J
i/“
A
-9
A
-7
A-
o>
O'.
*-n
A
V
A
r
\
C k
m
A
O'
Y'r3
ft
c>
O
-T
o>
o
£1
O'
O'
o
o
s6s
on
8H
Sh
wSi.
<r
%
A
o>
ft
.35
A
? SB
«3
O'
v
Y
81
w
we can
raise a smile
while Itiere's a
drop of comfort -
in Ine country'
come thick and fast these
days . . . and there’s no blinking their
reality. But it’s no good “moaning” .. .
that isn t the Australian way anyhow.
When all these political and banking
people finish their arguments and present
the bill the nation will grit its teeth and
proceed to pay it . . . for the most part
uncomplainingly at that.
Meantime each day has its trials . . . and
they are not easy ones. When evening
comes nerves are a little frayed and
perhaps . . . tempers a bit “edgy.”
A SPOT of Old Court, the World’s
Purest Whisky, is a wonderful cor-
rector at such moments. Under its
smooth, calm, mellowing influence worries
recede and problems take their proper
place in the perspective of the day’s life.
You are your own man again.
Let Old Court be your call when you
join a friend in a drink. Let Old Court
fill the home decanter. For even in such
little matters you can help Australia to
tight herself by your support of an
Australian indusrrv
Ct
THE WORLDS PUREST
/KM D
THE NATIONS favourite


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Sons o’ Guns”
Criterion “Possessions”
STATE Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
*^ 0T - Al ' “The Cingalee”
OMEDY “Peg o’ My Heart”
* IVOLI “By the Sea”
S>TATB Movies and Talkies
#
.. Sydney’s best new show of last week —
indeed the only one—was the opening of the
St-ate Parliament. It took two days to per-
form, and the artists acted in a maimer
that was a credit to themselves, a compli-
ment to their country and an honor and a
glory to the handsome, overwhelming, not
to say staggering, stack of stones and old
iron, erected, without any absurd idolatry
of architecture, in Macquarie-street.
. "Lest this praise might seem too enthu-
siastic, step up, agile reader, into the sacred
precincts and purlieus. On Tuesday, at
noon, the show is opened. It is both punc-
tual and free. It is packed to capacity, as
most present are not. A baldish gentleman,
who looks remarkably like a well-known
black-and-white artist, is sitting in the
public gallery with his arms folded and a
stern look on his face, asleep. The ladies’
gallery is crowded with exquisitely-dressed
women, who, like all their sex, are charming
and divinely good-looking.
Thank you.
Don’t mention it.
In an eyrie left and aloft of the Speaker's
chair, behold four men who as endurance
artists put in the shade all the pole-sitters,
dumb-bell-swingers, long distance piano-
players, roller-skaters and leader-writers in
the world. To be authentic and precise,
Hansard, its minions. Look at them, look
at them! For years they have sat there;
for years, praise God, they will sit there.
They have heard all they shall hear a thou-
sand times over. They shall hear all they
have heard a thousand times again. Yet
they sit on, neither disappointed nor dis-
mayed, and boredom sits on them like a
mantle of honor.
Below, a benched auditorium, lengthened
out like a horseshoe that had been run
over by a tractor. The benches are cushioned,
cosy. Great men have slept on them; the
Great Men of the Past, as we now respect-
fully call them; calm spirits who will one
day put the scoffers at Conan Doyle’s
apostles to scorn by coming back and throw-
ing stones on the roof. Not that we have
no Great Men now; not at all. There is
at least Mr.
Lysaght. Look
at him now
below there,
or, anyway,
look at the
top of his
head, which is
all that can
be seen of
many of the
p e r f ormers
from here.
Plow still and
potential he
sits, like one
of Mr. Wirtli’s
lions, ready to
stir at any
moment, to
spring and
deafen 17
pressmen in
one blow (lit-
erally speak-
ing). Is he a
spectacle to
be despised ?
Is Mr. Lang,
“Bows, and announces the
extraordinary news that
the Usher of the Black
Rod is without.”
as you see him
f rom here, stalking about like the broth
of a bhoy from Manchuria who frightened
the stuffing out of Frith at the last Sydney
Show? Twenty-three, or it may be twenty-
four, dark hairs, mercifully spared by some
thoughtful barber, lie in profusion across his
expansive crown, contrasting riotously with
the thatch of Mr. Bavin, which looks like
a discarded doormat from the Blacksoil
Plains, or, not to differentiate between par-
ties, with Mr. Missingham’s, which com-
pletely rules out buttermilk as a hair-tonic.
Two by two, following a precedent the
relevance or otherwise of which is unimpor-
tant, these and the rest of the State’s chosen
entertainers come into the House, and sit, lie,
sprawl, lean, double up, crouch down, con-
volute and tableau along the benches. Look-
ing at them down there they may seem an
ordinary crowd of human beings, such as
you might run into at the ponies. They are,
of course, nothing of the kind. They are
base hounds, liars, despicable traducers,
blackguards, troglodytes, robbers, traitors,
irresponsible nonentities, scarcely gentle-
men, pig-headed swipes, bleeders of the poor,
revolutionary fanatics, crayfish, aunt sallies,
unfit to lace boots, hogswash, etc., as they
so vociferously and so variedly, so confidently
and so convincingly, lately described one
another.
As we look down a hush falls over the
arena. Mr. Lang ceases to strut; Mr. Bavin
sits up with his face quizzed like a
cheeky schoolboy’s; Mr. Thomas Henley
continues to look like one for ever doomed to
do penance in a chair sprigged with red-
hot aspirates; Mr. Reid, the Little Boy from
Manly only grown up, puts on an expression
which seems to say that he could easily pull
six women out of the surf before breakfast;
Dr. Arthur dreams on of the matrons who
surge up in their Amazonian thousands every
election and mark their voting-papers as
expressions of authoritative amazement at
a man’s having given so many children so
much and such good milk.
From the apex of the horseshoe a tall
figure in black stockings with a rapier at
his side, the Sergeant at Arms, steps out
on to the cleared floor, bows, and announces
the extraordinary news that the Usher of
the Black Rod is without. Black Rod has
been out there knocking for some time, a
traditional ceremony which dates' from the
occasion on which a King of England broke
into 'the House of Commons and abused Par-
liamentary good form to the extent of mak-
ing the members do some hard thinking.
Rod now enters, carrying an ebony walking-
stick. He is what the boys call a great
effort. Not even the State Theatre has a
Dismounted Postilion to hold a candle to
him. He looks like a bull-fighter in mourn-
ing.
Plaving spoken a set piece of invitation, he
turns and stalks majestically from the cham-
ber, followed by several gentlemen in wigs,
by Mr. Lang and by the already designated
others, who all troop over to the Council
chamber, where, from the things they were
on the hustings, they are orally metamor-
phosed into the honorable and well beloved.
Once upon a time there was a man who
was metamorphosed into a donkey; we man-
age such things better now.
This other chamber to-day—it is still
Tuesday, so the official opening by the Gov-
“The ladies’ gallery is crowded with
exquisitely-dressed women!"
ernor to-morrow is not going to get much of
a spin in this article—is hollow and deserted,
save for the honorable and well beloved
below, a few pressmen, and the ghostly, not
to say ghastly, white busts of Great Men of
the Past at exact intervals along the walls.
The performance here is soon over, and, as
Frith remarks, thank God! Now we all
troop back to the other place, where for an
hour or so the performers sign their names
in a book. What happens next Frith
describes as glorified poppycock, but he
always was an enthusiast. This turn is the
election of Speaker, one member, who,
according to a whisper from Frith, is a jolly
good scout, being eventually adjudged suit-
able on the grounds that (a) he had spent
his boyhood in Tamworth; (b) his father
was the first white child born in that town;
(c) he was educated in the University o£
Ard Knocks; (d) he would fit the Speaker’s
seat with judgment and dignity; (e) he
would be impartial to Hall; (/) he would be
a nonor and a nornament; and ( g ) the
name of Burke was blazoned throughout the
political history of the world.
(Editor: “Do you mean the verb ‘to
burke’?” Showman: “You might be right.”)
That was about all. There was a bit of a
dust-up in the, street outside afterwards,
when a procession from the Trades Hall
clashed with the police, but the bodies were
cleared away and the blood mopped up before
the Governor came along next day and did
the second opening. Apparently he put on
a first-rate show, and if he cares to repeat
it this Showman will go along and see what
it’s like. Meanwhile, if there is anything in
this well-meant theatrical criticism which
appears to have been set down in malice,
and which therefore would be out of place in
a Bulletin that commemorates the season
of goodwill, the excuse fs that the show hap-
pened on a Tuesday, always an unlucky
day, especially when Constantine is bowling
at the Cricket Ground and the jade Duty
makes an appointment for Macquarie-street.
One thing, at least, can be added, here
without hint of malice; the Nationalists can
be congratulated on having so overwhelm-
ingly lost the elections; they have twice as
much room for sleeping as the other crowd.
* * *
Melbourne Tiv. has been smitten by a new
idea, namely a succession of “Weeks,” This
week is Scotch Week. Irish Week and Welsh
Week are threatened. After that. The Bul-
letin suggests Mother-in-law Week; there
are several jokes about mothers-in-law it would
like to hear again. High light of Scotch
Week is a ballet of braw lassies, some of
them products of the Tiv. wardrobe and
dressing - room
and others the
real thin g,
their chests
covered with
medals won at
Highland fes-
tivals. Other
items on a
s a t i sfactory
bill are Fred
Bluett, the
ever - verdant
Mo, and Joe
Laughton, who.
delivers his
gems of wit
with all the
vivacity and
naturalness of
a gramophone
record. Colin
Crane, an
artist to his
finger - tips,
continues to
perform the
r e m a rkable
feat of main-
taining popu-
lar interest in
‘Ole Man
River.”
“Mr. Lang, like the broth
of a bhoy from
Manchuria.”
Anybody who knew what the Australian
depression meant from reading cables and
who landed in Melbourne on Saturday when
Henley-on-the-Yarra was in full swing would
have got the shock of his life. The only thing
needed to give the effect of a community
living in a perpetual waltz dream in the
atmosphere of a Viennese operetta was a
couple of tons of coloring matter, say Rec-
kitt’s blue, thrown into the river somewhere
about Sunbury Falls. Even the soft gale
was scented —at any rate, when one was to
leeward of the crowds pacing the southern
banks. Here was a spectacle which made
even the Cup seem drab. As one _ feminine
realist remarked to the present scribe, what
are our poets doing raving about the bush t
Could they find there any flower more won-
derful than the fat, elderly gent approaching
in a salmon-colored suit, apricot spats and
an Iceland poppy in his coat? And why do
our artists bother about inventing their
color harmonies when this posse of Chinese
girls, like a moving bed of irises, creates
one simply by accidentally meeting a male
compatriot in an aeroplane-blue coat, striped
mauve trousers and a white straw hat? And
why do our dramatists spend so much time
and labor looking up the plays of their pre-
decessors for fresh plots when Life can
present such contrasts as the son of an
ex-headhunter acting as nursegirl to the
infant of an Australian planter down from
the Mandated Territory on leave? And, to
change the theme, what are the Australian
Treasurers doing, trying to balance their
budgets with this measure and that, when a
tax on cape collars would do the job over-
night ?
* * *
Gregan McMahon’s final effort of the
season at Melbourne Bijou was “Right You
Are! (If You Think So),” Pirandello’s par-
able in three acts, and it was the outstand-
ing semi-amateur performance of the year. _
The eminent Italian’s cure for insomnia
is probably as difficult a play to make theat-
rically convincing as there is. It is written
round the philosophic concept that there is
no such thing as absolute truth as far as the
mortal intellect is concerned.. If opens. in
the parlor of the house of Signor Agazzi, a
provincial councillor. Sundry gossipmongers
of an Italian town are agitated at the news
that Signor Ponza, a recently arrived civil
servant, has set up two establishments. In
one of them he keeps his wife, in the other
his mother-in-law. He visits his mother-in-
law, but she is not allowed to meet his
wife, though she is permitted to pass mes-
sages to her in a basket lowered from the
fifth floor. Here is a first-class mystery on
which amateur sleuths may whet their
wits. The gossipers provide convincing
explanations of the various phenomena, but
are interrupted by the advent of Signora
Frola, the ma-in-law, who supplies them with
the dinkum oil.
It appears that an earthquake simul-
taneously destroyed their native village and
“Completely rules out buttermilk as a
hair-tonic.”
her son-in-law’s wits. He, however, believes
that his wife was killed, and when she
wishes to be reunited with him he insists on
being married again. Signora Frola humors
him in the delusion that he is a widower
with a second wife, because the realisation
of the facts might endanger the remnants
of his sanity. She then departs, leaving more
raw material for the scandal factory to work
up into the finished article of social com-
merce. Manufacture is at full blast when
Signor Ponza himself arrives. He explains
that his first wife actually was killed, but
that it is his mother-in-law who is a trifle
touched, and that to preserve her tottering
reason he pretends to accept her version of
the affair. He keeps them apart for fear
of the emotional consequences. When the
characters and the audience have more or
less assimilated this fresh information the
wife herself appears. She is draped in black
and is heavily veiled. She explains that she
is both the first wife and the second, accord-
ing to your way of looking at it; and having
decided that he has given his hearers enough
metaphysics for one night, Pirandello rather
unsatisfactorily lowers the curtain on the
debate.
If the playwright had actually set out
to write a satire on present-day Melbourne
he could not have made his piece more per-
fectly apropos. It is safe to say that a
majority of the house had been engaged for
the past week or so in amateur-detective
work on a certain local crime much after
the manner of the puppets on the stage;
From that point of view the play had fresh-
ness which it otherwise lacks. The trouble
about it is that after the first statement of
Pirandello’s philosophic idea there is very
little left to be said, and the play stands
or falls by the dramatic interest it evokes.
That interest is on the whole pretty well
sustained. Some of the situations are more
than ordinarily tense. The performance can-
not be overpraised. Owing to the illness of
that fine realistic actor Thomas Skewes. Gre-
gan McMahon abdicated the principal r6le
in favor of Norman Wister, whose Signor
Ponza was required to leave the audience
in doubt as to whether he was a maniac
simulating sanity or a rational person simu-
lating insanity. It was an outstanding piece
of work. As Signora Frola, Beatrice Day
gave a charming display of polished artistry;
and Ruth Conabere, Ethel Treasure and
Norma Gunn were admirable village gro-
tesques. As Lamberto Laudisi, W. H.
Chandler had the ungrateful job of acting as
the mouthpiece for Pirandello’s: transcenden-
talism, and discharged it pretty well.
* H- *
An idea of how well the amateurs are
holding the fort more or less vacated by com-
mercial troops in Sydney can be had from
an inspection of the Community production
of Ibsen’s “Ghosts.” Mrs. W. B. Allen pro-
duced the play, and gave a really excellent
representation of the part of the mother,
and A. Olsen, as the son, caught the right
note of naivete and neuroticness. Frank
Cayley, apart from a mechanical delivery,
was at home as Pastor Manders.
"'Hansard,’ its minions!"
The breezy form of entertainment intro-
duced, or revived, by the Mclntosh-Uniou
Theatres crowd continues at Sydney Opera
House, where Mo.’s old offsider Nat Phillips
heads a good all-round bunch in “Frills and
Flounces.” Among the best offerings are tne
bright political gags; the show altogether is
a cheery time-killer.
* * *
The Vagabonds, directed by Harry Thomas,
packed St, James's Hall; Sydney, for a few
nights last week with St. John Ervine’s
three-act comedy “Anthony and Anna.”
Anthony (surname Fair) is a plausible young
man with a creditable war background, who
has decided to live on his wits. Anna Penn,
daughter of an American millionaire, a
spirited miss well able to look after
herself, eventually accepts him out of sheer
admiration for his candor. Old Penn,
who appears to exist on a diet of charcoal
biscuits, threatens to cut off supplies, but
Anna retorts that she will wed her man,
money or no money. Anthony, however,
won’t have her without a dowry, and this
she secures on condition that she makes
things so darned uncomfortable for the
young man that he will be glad to
work. The play is enlivened by _ the pre-
sence of George, proprietor of the inn, who
hands out advice all round; by Freda, a pert
little waitress, and by a hard-up titled dame
and a war profiteer, Cedric Kempson, as
Anthony, and Valetta Cohen, as Anna, did
capital work, and G. W. Stokes (George)
scored a laugh every time he opened his
mouth.
Bach did for music what Newton did for
science and what Shakspcare did for letters
—he opened new worlds; and there is no
composer great or small since his time who
has not felt hi.s influence. A recital of
works of the master by Laurence Godfrey
Smith at Sydney Con. the other evening
drew a good crowd in which students figured
largely, impressed hy the courage of the
pianist and curious to see how he would fulfil
a tough contract. Fortunately for all con
cerned, Mr. Smith’s technique is sufficient to
enable him to cope with the most intricate
counterpoint, and the recital was a success.
The “Chromatic Fantasia and Fugue” and
the newly-discovered Violin Sonata in G
(George White at the fiddle) were outstand-
ing items.
# ¥
“Sons o’ Guns,” which has discovered a
remarkable taste for the old romantic con-
ception of war by running for a couple of
months or so at Sydney Majesty’s, goes out
on Friday week. The next musicomedy will
be “Turned Up,” with Elsie Prince and Leo
Franklyn doing most of the work. “Posses-
“Tuesday, always an unlucky day, especially
when Constantine is bowling.”
sions” and a one-acter still draw business
at the Cri., and may run till about Christ-
mas. The next on the list is “Eliza Comes
to Stay.”
“Cauboy” : Pat Hanna, now of 3LO, Mel-
bourne, can claim a few records. His Famous
Diggers, who were disbanded last year,
toured Australasia for 12 unbroken years.
I-lis season of 18 months at the Cremorne,
P»risbane, was the longest in local theatrical
annals. One of his humorous talks, “The
Gospel According to Cricket,” has been
gramophoned, and in five months over
20,00.0 discs have been sold. A final
record concerns a series of talks broad-
cast from 3LO. Hanna is a fervent
believer in the theory that the Anglo-Saxon
race is descended from the Ten Tribes, and
holds irrefutable proof that all the Euro-
pean monarchies are related to David’s
House. His remarks on the subject brought
the biggest mail 3LO has ever had.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex*
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
Get your T:
orb
PAINT'S and
VARNISHES
from
AGENTS
EVERYWHERE.
THEY ” KEEP ON KEEPING ONI
CLOTHES
FOR MEN
sd
AND THEIR
SONS.
Men s Handkerchiefs
Men’s Fine Quality Hemstitched Handker-
chiefs. Generous in size.
IRISH LAWN.
1/ each H/6 dozen
1/6 each 17/6 dozen
1/9 each 20/ dozen
IRISH LINEN.
2/ each 23/ dozen
2/6 each 29/ dozen.
Pike Brothers
LIMITED,
In QUEEN-STREET, BRISBANE.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Tooth and Co.
, Dividends
Net Old. Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. (94 p.e.) (7 p.c.) serves. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1920.. 159,189 117,562 38,500 3,127 178,345
Castlemaine and Wood Bros. (Newcastle)
taken over.
(10 p.c.) (9 p.c.)
1921.. 213,949 160,215 49,500 4,234 182,579
(10 p.c.)
1922.. 235,175 169,167 55,000 11,008 193,587
1923.. 293,373 170,000 55,000 68,373 261,960
1924.. 311,706 171,718 55,000 84,988 346,948
1925.. 367,650 277,647 953 89,050 435,99 S
1926.. 440,229 310,602 196 129,431 565,429
Assets written up, £736,975 .. 1,302,404
Reserves capitalised, £776,975 .. 525,429
(11* p.c.)
1927.. 609,085 398,206 3 110,876 636,305
(124 p.c.)
1928.. 590,134 485,622 104,512 740,817
Assets written up, £485,622, and that
amount capitalised .. .. 740,817
1929.. 634,054 539,860 _ 94,194 835,011
(Hi p.c.)
1930.. 686,392 632,317 54,075 889,086
Since the break in the market Tooths has
been one of the most heavily-traded stocks on
the list. During the last four years the co. has
scattered £1,262,597 of bonus scrip, issued
£1,250,000 paids in connection with the
purchase of Reschs’ business (thus paid capi-
tal is now £5,620,598) and lifted the div.
from 10 p.c. to 124 p.c. The interim distri-
bution for the last term was at the latter
rate, hut the final was reduced to 10 p.c. p.a.
The market, however, doubts whether the
10 p.c. will be maintained. The price of the
pound shares dropped steadily from 51s. in
Nov., 1929, to 21s. 6d. in Sept. last. The
figure, after recovering to 275., is now around
255. At that price the return is 8 p.c. on
a 10 p.c. div. basis, or 6.4 p.c. if the div is
reduced to 8 p.c. The visible backing is
28s. 2d. in net tangibles, of which 16s. lOd.
was represented by fixed assets and the
balance by more or less liquids.
For years the co. has been buying and
improving hotel properties out of revenue.
These, the Resell and other purchases, in-
cluding the territories taken over with
Castlemaine and Wood Bros. (Newcastle) in
1920 and Mahon (Wagga) and Lincoln
(Narrandera) in 1924. have given it a lion’s
share of the trade in N. S. Wales, and yielded
some nice harvests:—
Profit on Management, Exes.
Brewings, Wages, p.c. Balance
Interest, etc. Excise, etc. Gross. of Profit.
1915.. £652,360 £367,566 56.3 £284,794
1920.. 670,783 499,594 74.4 171,189
1925.. 862,934 495,284 57.4 367,650
1926.. 1,032,200 591,971 57.3 440,229
1927.. 1,284,738 775,653 60.3 509,085
1928.. 1,387,934 797,800 57.3 590,134
1929.. 1,482,345 848,291 57.2 634,054
1930.. 1,593,797 907,406 56.9 686,392
The increase in last year’s figures was
due to the purchase of Rcschs’, from
which accounts at Sept. 30, 1929, benefited
by only three months’ trading. An encour-
aging feature is the improvement in the per-
centage of exes, to gross profit, despite
heavier taxation. Also allowance is made
for depreciation, bad debts, etc. (it is a
long time since the problem has been so
worrying), before gross profits are written
into'.the published accounts. The extent to
which the co. has felt the pinch of reduced
spending, etc., which has resulted in re-
possession of a number of hotel properties,
is reflected in the percentage of net profit
to average capital; the figure was 12.2 p.e.
last year as against 14.7, 15.2, 13.1 and 14.1
p.c. back to 1926. Considering the circum-
stances the showing was an exceptionally
good one.
Though the trade holds extraordinarily
well in the dullest times, turnover promises
to lose much of its former briskness; rental
and other values, including hotel properties,
are on the down grade and increased excise
and other taxation will make off with a
larger slice of the earnings. Actual results
Will depend largely upon whether the pro-
vision for contingencies proves to be
adequate. That, large inner reserves have been
accumulated in the past is obvious from
recent capitalisations; and last year’s figures
suggest that the gift giving has not been
overdone. Moreover, the fact that nine-
tenths of the trade in N. S. Wales is in the
hands of two brewing concerns—Tooths and
Tooheys—makes the position safer.
Financially the co. is well equipped to
weather a.storm, as this next table shows: —
Assets— 1925. 1929. 1930.
Breweries, etc... £2,426,241 £4,590,426 £4,727,376
Book debts 1,172,258 1,734,165 1,607,263
Stock .. .. 409,451 577,290 456,143
Liquid .. .. 182,522 544,506 632,986
£4,190,472 £7,446,387 £7,423,768
Liabilities.. .. 424,740 613,370 553,605
Net assets .. £3,765,732 £6,833,017 £6,870,163
The year’s growth of £136,950 in the book
value of breweries, plant and freeholds is
due partly to repossessions. These and
quieter trading conditions are further
reflected in a shrinkage of £126.902 in book
uebts and a reduction of £121,147 in the
figure at wfliich stocks appear. Government
securities (£560,687) and cash (£72,299)
alone were £79,381 in excess of the outside
debt at Sept. 30. The more or less liquid
surplus (£2,142,787, including stocks) was
£99,804 lighter than at the previous balance.
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd.
To Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 123,365 12} p.c. = 91,595 31,770 168,507
1921.. 92,109 124 „ „ 91,595 514 169,021
1922.. 103,948 12} „ „ 91,595 12,353 181,374
1923.. 135,395 13} „ „ 100,754 34,641 216,015
1924.. 139,941 13} „ „ 108,917 31,024 247,039
Premiums on new shares, £17,084 .. 264,123
1925.. 132,639 13} p.c. = 122,782 9,857 273,980
Premiums on new shares, £17,403.. 291,383
1926. . 139,796 13} p.c. = 125,168 14,628 306,011
Shares in subsidiaries written up,
£455,492 761,503
Reserves capitalised, £455,492 .. 306,011
1927.. 159,103 11} p.c. = 132,642 26,461 332,472
1928.. 154,084 10 „ „ 139,578 14,506 346,978
Share premiums, £17,308 .. .. 364,286
1929.. 160,637 10 p.c. = 141,909 18,728 383,014
Share premiums, £5O .. .. 383,004
1930.. 118,347 7} p.c. = 107,263 11,084 394,148
Formed 21 years ago by the late Henry
Jones and his able lieutenant Arch Palfrey-
man, who is now at the helm, this holding
co. has been a notable success. It stepped
in where there was waste in buying and
selling, as well as overlapping and inefli
ciency in organisation and reduced the lot to
a minimum. The subsidiaries, which are
in the jam and fruit-canning and preserving
business, are scattered all over the Common-
wealth and Maoriland, and extend to Eng-
land and S. Africa as well.
The sharp contraction in last year’s figures
was , partly due _ to the general slump in
business, but mainly to unequal competition
ami price-cutting by Government-assisted
factories, which are run at a loss in N. S.
Wales and Vic. These figures show what
has happened:—
1920. 1927. 1929. 1930.
Net income:—
Australian.. £104,968 £123,898 £115,818 £71,481
Other sources 18,397 35,205 44,819 46,866
Total . . £123,365 £159,103 £160,637 £118,347
Thus, while the co.’s interests outside Aus-
tralia continue to step along nicely, its
local investments sent in £44,337 less last
year, notwithstanding that an extra factory,
bought from the Queensland Government,
was added to the list shortly before the
books closed in 1929. The profit claimed
from all sources was 5.3 p.c. on the
£1,430,173 of paid capital, so 2| points were
knocked off the div., reducing it to 7} p.c.,
worth a shade over J 1 p.c. to old holders
on account of the bonus issue 3} years ago.
The chairman sums up the co.’s problems
in this way :
While factories financed by the State continue to
make jams and canned fruits and sell them at less
than the cost of production, it is impossible for us
to earn any manufacturing profit. We have already
set about liquidating two more of our branches in
Australia, and the rest will have to restrict their
activities.' We cannot sell our canned fruits over-
seas except at a controlled price.
Overproduction on the growing side is the
trouble: with costs as they are, the surplus
can only be exported at a loss. How long
it will be before the industry readjusts itself
on a sound basis is impossible to say. Mean-
time this holding co.’s Australian invest-
ments are likely to be less profitable than
in the past, but income from other sources
should not be affected much, if at all.
All the balance-sheet tells shareholders
about their investment is contained in one
line—shares and interests in other cos. at
valuation, £2,169,492. Visible reserves,
£394,148 at Nov. 1, are all invested in the
business; the real position therefore de-
pends upon the strength in the sub-
sidiaries. The chairman has repeatedly
given his. assurance that the assets are
conservatively valued, and said a couple
of years ago that the subsidiaries had
substantial reserves of their own. More-
over, the amounts passed on to the
parent have kept nicely in advance of mount-
ing dividend charges, and shareholders have
had a long run of good returns, sweetened
with a 50 p.c. bonus issue, already referred to.
During the last 12 months the scrip has
eased from 31s. to 225. 6d. on the market.
The return at the lower figure is 6.6 p.c.
on a 7J p.c. div. basis.
Castlemaine Brewery (Melb.).
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
££. £ £
1920.. 9,446 8 p.c. = 7,500 1946 78,043
Recoveries 2562 80,605
1921.. 11,063 14 p.c. = 13,125 78,513
Additions to reserves ..£22,679 101,192
Reserves capitalised ..£13,791 87,401
1922.. 17,933 10 p.c. = 12,656 5277 92,678
Reserves capitalised ..£53,796 38,882
1923.. 21,971 124p.c.= 17,031 4940 43,822
1924.. 23,326 10 „ „ 17,500 5826 49,648
1925.. 24,552 12.8„ „ 22,500 2052 51.700
1926.. 29,508 28.5„ „ 50,000 31,208
1927.. 24,609 14.3„ ~ 25,000 30,817
1928.. 24,365 14.3„ ~ 25,000 30,182
1929.. 25,109 14.3„ ~25,000 109 30,291
1930.. 22,514 12.6„ ~ 22,500 14 30,305
The distribution looks to be over-generous,
but not much importance need be at-
tached to that. This is one of the original
half-dozen Melbourne concerns whose brew-
eries were included in the big Carlton and
United merger of 20-odd years ago. For a
long time it limped along under a heavy
load of debt, paying modest divs. on its writ-
ten-down capital. But as the old properties
were sold and the debt reduced the position
changed. Over the last decade shareholders
have averaged 14.3 p.c., and £67,587 of the
old capital has been restored, raising the
total on the register to £175,000.
The factor which most influences the posi-
tion nowadays is the co.’s holding in the
C.U.B.—-102,500 ords. and 14,914 7 p.c.
prefs., which advance with the ords. beyond
that rate. What this and its other invest-
ments have turned in of recent years the
next table shows :
C.U.B. Interest, C.U.B. Interest,
Div. etc. Biv. etc.
1921.. £11,894 £8,778 1926..£20,388 £7,613
1922.. 11,974 10,753 1927.. 21,809 5,605
1923.. 17,355 7,635 1928.. 21,788 5,210
1924.. 17,402 8,354 1929.. 21,975 4,981
1925.. 18,895 8,081 1930.. 18,648 5,818
For the three years to June 30, 1929, C.TJ.B.
paid a steady 17£ p.c. from net profits aver-
aging 22.3 p.c. on its £1,950,000 of capital.
Accounts for tin* 12 months to June 30 last
have not yet been presented; the usual in-
terim div. was paid, but the final was at
the rate of 14 p.c. p.a. Assuming that the
latter rate is maintained by C.U.8., and
that Castlemaine’s other p. and 1. figures do
not alter, it would net 11.7 p.c. on its paid
capital. That is leaving out of the reckon-
ing undistributed profits of the C.U.8.,
of which Castlemaine’s proportion was
£4892 for 1929, or 2.8 p.c. on its capital.
But the outlook is full of uncertainty, the
financial position generally is becoming more
acute, taxation and unemployment continue
to increase, and there is competition from
the Richmond Brewery. Nevertheless, C.U.B.
is well equipped for a struggle.
Castlemaine’s own finances are snug:—-
1917. 1927. 1929. 1930.
Debentures . . £39,483
Mortgages. . . . 10,622 ,-
Other debts . . 16,443 £2ll £427 £486
Properties.. .. 118,506 13,225 13,317 21,174
Advances, etc. . . 3,402 26,531 22,332 19,342
Shares in combine 82,000 119,861 119,861 119,861
Cash, etc 443 58,912 62,706 55,414
Advances mostly represent balances owing
on the sale of old properties. The sole sur-
vivor of these is the brewery premises, to
the book value of which £7857 was added
last year on account of a new building, now
a satisfactory revenue-producer the chair-
man says.
On the market the co.’s 17s. 6d. paid shares
are priced at 325. as against 41s. a year
ago. The return at the low T er figure is 7.8
p.c. on a 12.6 p.c. div. basis, or 6.2 p.c. on
alO p.c. distribution. The backing exhibited
in the sheet is 3s. 6d. per share; there was
another 7s. 7d. in the co.’s proportion of
C.U.B.’s visible lay-by at June 30, 1929.
Warburton, Franki, Ltd.
Net Dividends To Re-
Profit. All Shares. serves. Deficit.
Sept., £ £ £ £
1924.. 3,857 8 p.c. = 2880 977 717
T? pcprvPQ
1925.. 4,312 8 „ „ 2880 1,432 715
Assets revalued; goodwill (£12,677)
written off and general reserve added
to by £3646 .. .. .. .. 17 038
1926.. 6,513 10 p.c. = 3600 2,913 ig’9sl
Unexplained reduction in reserves, £1707.. 18,244
1927.. 15,338 10 p.c. = 3600 11,738 29,982
Reserves capitalised, £9OOO .. .. 20,982
1928.. 15,496 124 p.c. = 6390 9,106 30’,088
1929.. 15,587 „ „ 8490 7,097 37,185
1930.. 9,015 7 „ „ 7000 2,015 39,200
Seeking escape from the difficulties which
beset the engineering trade after the war,
the board changed the business from a manu-
facturing to a merchandising concern.
Assisted by an extraordinary demand for
electric-refrigerators, due mainly to competi-
tion in the flat business, some attractive
figures were shown. But the old conditions
have gone, and they are not likely to return.
Their disappearance is reflected in the
accounts by a slip of £6572 in the year’s net
earnings, which were 9 p.c. on average capi-
tal compared with 22.9, 30.3 and 42.6 p.c.
back to 1927. The div. was reduced from
12 i p.c. to 7 p.c., and maintenance of that
rate will depend largely upon the manage-
ment’s success in developing other lines.
Trading: has become more difficult, competi-
tion keener, profit margins narrower ana
more service is being demanded.
Much of the recent growth of the business
was financed on borrowed money, but £20,000
of fresh capital gathered early in the last
term helped to ease the pressure. Here is
the position as the published accounts show
it:—
1924. 1926. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital . . £36,000 £36,000 £BO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Liabilities . . 42,712 49,608 112,343 59,265
Freeholds ete )
Plant, etc. 8,350 j 32 > 571 37 ’ 730 38 ’ 209
Stocks, etc. . . 32.906 34,171 85,363 80,390
Book debts . . 16,881 28,182 78,545 48,413
Investments, etc.. . 11,212 12,796 33,296 33,452
During the year £53,078 was clipped off the
debt, which includes something for taxation.
There is also a contingent liability of £91,915
in respect of hire-purchase contracts and bills
discounted. The year’s difficult trading is
further reflected in a reduction of £30,132
in debtors’ balances; stocks were £4973
lighter, and much depends upon the figure
at which they have been taken into the
sheet. The more, or less liquid surplus
(£69.538) was £17,973 stronger than at the
close of accounts in 1929, excluding invest-
ments. Investments include the co.’s holdings
in the Melbourne and Brisbane subsidiaries,
but no hint is given as to how these are get-
ting along. Incidentally, the freehold was
written up £14,874 in 1925, thus enabling
£12,677 of goodwill to be rubbed out and a
small addition made to reserves.
The ox-ds., which fetched 355. 6d. a year
ago, are now offered at 13s. 6d. At that
figure the return is 10.2 p.c. on a 7 p.c.
div. basis. There are 20,000 7 p.c. cum.
profs., which advance with the ords. beyond
that rate. They have priority as to capital
and share in surplus assets, but seldom come
on to the market. The backing for all the
shares is 275. Bd. in net tangibles.
Allied Motor Interests, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
July, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 77,431 174 p.c. = 74,925 2,506 2,506
1925.. 129,056 20 „ „ 85,629 43,427 45,933
1926.. 94,777 171 „ ~74,925 19,852 65,785
Written off snares in subsidiary, £68,766 I „„„
1927.. 34,688 Nil - 34,688 1 31 ’ 707
1928.. 1,098 Nil 1,098 32,805
1929.. 2,142 Nil 2,142 34,947
Deficit.
Interests in subsidiaries written down,
£249,024 . . .. - . . . . 214,077
10s. per share struck off capital, £214,077
Loss.
1930.. 1,304 Nil 1304
Originally it was Tarrants Motors Pty., Ltd.,
which set up in Melbourne in 1911, having
secured the agency for the Ford car. During
the post-war boom the directors decided to
launch out on a large scale; thus the present
co. was formed in 1923. It had a paid capi-
tal of £428,144, and controlled a half-dozen
subsidiaries, one in the motor-body building
business, another in the accessories trade;
among them the rest handled a dozen or
so well-known makes of motor-cars and
-trucks.
While the boom lasted fat profits were won,
and divs. totalling 55 p.c. were paid for the
three years to July 31, 1926. Then the
Ford agency, the chief money-spinner, was
lost, conditions in the trade changed and
the pups quickly became a sick lot—
sicker than fhe parent’s accounts have ever
suggested. When the veil was lifted at April
30, 1929, the combined figures of the parent
and the pups disclosed accumulated losses of
£196,680 and £39,507 of goodwill. There
was no less than £483,529 coming to credi-
tors, including the bank (£303.198). More
or less liquids totalled £367,020, and fixed
assets figured at £348,495.
To tidy up the position the parent last
year struck £249,024 off the book value of
its interests in subsidiaries. Thus half its
capital went down the sink and £34,947 of
so-called reserves was rubbed out. It was,
of course, a paper adjustment, and had no
effect upon the heavy outside debt or the
earning power of the assets. At July 31
the parent’s £214,072 of capital, £48,620 of
deposits, etc., and a tax reserve of £lOOO
were represented by shares in other cos.,
£202,531 (cost, less' amount written off) and
£59,857 of cash.
But the auditor says that some of the cos.
have accumulated losses which are not
reflected in the values shown in the balance-
sheet. The actual position, therefore, can
only be guessed at, the curtain having again
been drawn over the subsidiaries’ accounts.
All that can be said definitely is that during
the year one of the subsidiaries was liqui-
dated, inter-company advances were l’epaid,
the businesses generally reorganised and the
name of the body-building co. changed to
Buskin Motor Bodies Pty., Ltd. This last
enterprise, in which over £300,000 was in-
vested a year or so ago, threatens to be a
serious drag.
On the market there is speculative iixterest
in the 10s. paid shares at 6d. ; a few yeafs
ago the pound shares fetched 335. 6d.
(Continued on next page.)


Watch Your
Step 1
•
These are days when a man
may lose the savings of a life-
time.
These are days when a man
may lay the foundations of a
fortune.
The thing is to know. , The
‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” has im-
mense data at its disposal and
a staff of specially trained in-
vestigators and accountants.
It will, help you to save losses
and make gains.
DECEMBER NUMBER WILL
BE ON SALE ON SATURDAY.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM. 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Svdnev, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Inventors. —Have :you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. l — Ai)VT.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
The present need for economy emphasises the
extreme value of Pioneer Wood Pipe as a conduit for
any liquid-carrying purpose. The initial ' cost of
Pioneer Wood Pipe is considerably less than metal
pipe, and handling, laying and transport charges
are on a correspondingly low basis. It is absolutely
non-corrosive, and is recognised as a pipe .of the
highest efficiency. Full particulars free on request.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay
Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.;
and at Footscray, Victoria.-— -AdVt.
* * * *
Bismuth. —We are buyers of Bismuth Concentrates
in any quantity. Write, giving particulars of
quantity available, and send samples to Elliott
Brothers, Limited, Box 494 AA, G.P.0., Sydney.
—Advt.
* $ * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes. — Advt.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fuss
Detonators
Cartridges
THE VALUE OF SECURITY
is fully realised by most people when considering investments or selecting a Bank or Safe Deposit,
but its worth should also be considered when selecting their Executor by reason of the import-
ance of that office. Be assured of undoubted security by appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, AGENT, ETC.
Its Capital and Reserves total £1,120,000, in addition to which in terms of the Act of Parlia-
ment by which the Company was incorporated the sum of £20,000 is deposited with the New
South Wales Government as PERPETUAL SECURITY for the proper administration of funds
entrusted to its care.
TRUST FUNDS UNDER CONTROL EXCEED £39,023,000.
Call or write for explanatory Booklet.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Managing Director. H. Y. DOUGLASS, Manager.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. j
F. E. Loxtori, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
I General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
BanK offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Insure with tine
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
LosseS from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.,
Covered at Lowest Rates. (
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
. . - t W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Australian Mortgages
This co., which was formed in 1927, has
gone very much astray. Originally activi-
ties were to be mainly confined to discount-
ing suburban builders’ second mortgages, with
the laudable object of facilitating the pur-
chase of homes by people with little capital.
This, careful management, and a promise
that the £1 shares would not be called to
more than 10s. were made special features
of the prospectus.
But an orgy of expenditure w r as the main
feature of the share-selling campaign. At
last balance-day preliminary exes, had made
off with over 32 p.c. of the paid capital. The
co. had hardly got started before a director
of. Greater Sydney Estates, Ltd., whose name
aid not appear in the prospectus of Austra-
lian Mortgages, joined the latter co.’s board.
Then the co. did a foolish thing: it made
an advance on second mortgage over a block
of unproductive vacant land at Narrabeen,
part of Greater Sydney Estates’ stock-in-
trade. The first mortgagee soon afterwards
became restless, and threatened to “sell up”
the property. Australian Mortgages had no
option but to buy the estate to save them-
selves. They also became possessed of a
large block of land at Mona Vale, apparently
another legacy of the unfortunate associa-
tion with Greater Sydney Estates. The co.,
being short of money, was then forced to
break faith with shareholders, the scrip hav-
ing since been called to 13s.
At June 30 last the Narrabeen land
figured in a balance-sheet at £14,350 (£20.571
less a first mortgage of £6221). The Mona
Yale. property (since exchanged for equities
in property at Bondi and Darlinghurst)
appeared at £9925. Mortgages, debtors, etc.,
were in at £19,973, and cash, prepayments and
fittings at £200; Preliminary exes, were
£17,679. and p. and 1. debit £3lOB. On the
other side of the sheet paid capital was
£54,721 in 41,767 9 p.c. cum. prefs. and
47,242 ords., all called to 135., but there
was £3135 of calls unpaid. Galls in
advance were £2B, forfeited shares reserve,
£4947; sundry creditors, etc., £967; over-
draft, £1738; and mortgage discount sus-
pense account, £2835.
P. and 1. figures to June 30 claim interest,
commission, etc., amounting to £2597, bur
this was more than offset by bad debts
(£2633). Administration and other exes,
swallowed £1039 ; thus a loss of £1075 was
shown for the year.
The co.’s difficulties have been added to
by the directors, the auditor and shareholders
wrangling amongst themselves. The p. and 1.
account and balance-sheet sent out by the
co. are unusual documents; the directors’
names are absent, and the auditor’s report
was apparently too long to include at the
foot. It ran into several pages, and alleged,
amongst other things, that the balance-sheet
was not properly drawn up.
Many shareholders, of course, are now
thoroughly dissatisfied with their investment,
especially since there is an uncalled liability
of 7s. per share. The co.’s articles provide
that not less than two shareholders holding
not less than 5000 shares (presumably ords.)
may summon a special meeting. If share-
holders consider that a change in control is
necessary they may call such meeting; but
first, it would be advisable to form a com-
mittee and consult a leading firm of public
accountants before any action is taken.
The book value of the backing in net
tangibles is £1 10s. lOd. for each £1 of
pref. capital; the ords. are covered by only
9s. 3d. in the £l. It is all in land, loans
on mortgage, etc.
Bank of N. S. Wales
Though it was hoped that prices had
reached their lowest level, proper preparation
for contingencies must be made while this
was still practicable, said president Thomas
Buckland at the annual meeting last Fri-
day. More than half the bank’s £60,400,510
of advances at Sept. 30 w 7 as in connection
with our great primary and export indus-
tries ; and since woolgrowers and wheat-
farmers are struggling to carry on in the
face of costs, which are greater than the
returns most of them are now getting for
their produce, tlic bank’s risks are obviously
considerable. And they are further added to
by the difficulties of the manufacturer, the
merchant and others.
These risks cannot be measured with a
yard-stick or a slide-rule. How bad or
doubtful some accounts may be, and there-
fore what they will actually cost the bank,
can only be guessed at until they are liqui-
dated. But the allowances made in this
respect affect the figure at which net profit
is written. Mainly because of this the profit
claimed last year (£734,699) was £260,126
less than for the previous term and £45Q,244
short of the 1928 figure; it was 9.8 p.c. on
the £7.500,000 of paid capital, which had the
support and assistance of £6,316,927 of
visible reserves at Sept. 30, as against 13.3,
15.8, 17.3 and 18.3 p.c. back to 1926. So
a point was chipped off the final quarterly
div., reducing it to 9 p.c. p.a., making 9j:
p c. for the year. The Wales has never
paid less than 9 p.c. since the old co-part-
nery closed its existence in 1850. From that
year to 1874 the rate varied from 10 p.c. to
20 p.c., and for the next 17 years a regular
p.c. was paid. From 1895 to 1900 9 p.c.
was distributed, and from the beginning of
this century the div. was steady at 10 p.c.
(until last w T eek’s declaration), witha2£ p.c.
bonus added in 1921 and 1925-28 inclusive.
Following the latest announcement the
price of the £2O paid shares fell sharply
from £32 7s. 6d. to £3l on the market, and
bank stocks generally were affected. The
return at the lower figure is 5.8 p.c. on a
9 p.c. div. basis. The visible backing amounts
to £36 16s. lid. per share in net tangibles.
The bank is now in a stronger position
than it was when it withstood the storms of
the ’nineties. At Sept. 30 it was holding-
only £5 ss. 4d. of the public’s money for
every pound of its own funds, and depositors
and others could see 34.1 p.c. of the amount
coining to them in liquids. The accounts
will be reviewed in the next issue of The
Bulletin.
A Hopeful Northern Find
From Mareeba, at the back of Cairns: —
Bill Roberts recently found two nuggets, 3oz. and
9oz. respectively, also several smaller pieces, while
prospecting in Convict Creek, near Almaden. Since
then he has recovered approximately 30oz. alluvial
gold, sold at £3 10s. per ounce. Fred Grant, on
the adjoining claim, is also meeting with success.
Both men are old practical miners, well known
through the North; they understand the game
thoroughly. Other claims have been pegged out, but
the field is not yet sufficiently proved to justify
anything in the way of a rush, especially by inex-
perienced men.
The find is in an extensive belt of country bordered
by black diorite on one side and granite on the
other, extending from opposite Jim O’Shea’s home-
stead, about 10 miles north-west from Almaden, and
about 15 miles from the Tate goldfield. It appears
as if this new find were a break or alluvial spur
that had been a feeder at one time to the main
belt of alluvial country running between, and com-
prising the Gilbert and Palmer goldfields. As far
back as 20 years ago gold was got near the present
find; but it is pretty rough country to explore, and
nothing much has been done with it meantime.
The second five-head of stamps is being
hurried into commission by Lucknow Pups
G. M. Co. (N.S.W.). There will be plenty
of water from the old Pup workings to drive
the full 10-head battery, which is to crush
up to 200 tons stone per month. A test
parcel of 15 tons ore has returned about 4
tons concentrates, which are to be sent away
for treatment. The result will not be known
until the clean-up, probably before Christmas.
Preliminary assay showed 2oz. gold per ton.
The directors say there is enough cash in
the till to carry on for another three months
without gold returns.
* * * *
“Old Hand”: Touching the Coober Pedy
(S.A.) opalfield (8.. 12/11/’3O). Things
have been very dull on the field for a long
time; of its 80-odd inhabitants over 30 are
on Government rations. Apart from two
local dealers,, who also do a little digging,
a buyer has not considered it worth while
putting in an appearance during the last 12
; months.
* * * *
The gold bonus is expected to revive a
i number of Westralian shows, including the
Mararoa, ’near Cue,' the Augusta and Lance-
field at Laverton, Frasers at Southern Cross,
and Yuanmi in East Murchison. Many other
down-and-out ventures with a good past are
mentioned as producers in the future; some
of these have been idle for years, some are
under tribute and others are but a series
of underground waterholes.
* * * *
A London investor, believed to be Great
Boulder Prop., has taken a month's option on
the Golden Butterfly at Norseman (W.A.)
and paid £5OO deposit. Purchase considera-
tion is £lO,OOO payable in instalments over
a period and £50,000 paids in a co. with
maximum issue of 241),000 shares. The
show was strongly recommended to the
Boulder co. by its manager two months ago,
but terms could not be agreed upon. Mean-
time Butterfly’s board lias been stirred up by
tlie Warden for over-indulgence in exemp-
tion.
* * * *
Croesus Proprietary mine, on which South
Kalgurli, Ltd., has a lona- lease, is the centre
of attraction at Ivalgoorlie. Developmental
' work is proceeding at 1200 ft., and should the
shoot at that depth prove as big and as
profitable as in the level 150 ft. above,
approximately 70,000 tons of ore will be
added to the reserves and dividend prospects
enhanced.
- * * >1? *
The) two writs recently issued by tributors
against Great Boulder Prop., claiming 50 per
cent, of the advance in the price of gold, are
likely to be the forerunners of others. Tribu-
' tors" all along the Golden Mile have noted
the premium on gold, due to the exchange
position, and have decided to try to get as
much of it as they can.
* * * *
Golden Horseshoe is netting between £3OOO
• and £4OOO a month from the treatment of
; the mountainous heap of tailings on its
lease, but is having great difficulty, in getting
the money remitted to London. At present
the co. has about £30,000 in hand.
* * * *
Two of Alluvial Tin’s younger progeny
have furnished very satisfactory sheets for
the year, ended May 31. Rawang Conces-
sions, floated only three years ago, but early
on the dividend list, netted £53,202, after
writing off £14,420 for development, dredge
additions and depreciation. The dredge
began digging in July, 1929, and had a
plaster of £16,000 advanced by the directors
to work off. Good recoveries soon wiped
that out, and two divs. of a shilling each
(together £20,000) have been paid. The
1,743,000 c.y. of dirt treated averaged 1.071 b.
per yard. Average cost was 3.47 d. per yard,
and net realisation 13.05 d., a striking testi-
mony to the mine itself and the management.
Paid capital is £200,000. There was £5622
coming to creditors, and cash, book debts,
etc., totalled £18,607. For the fully-paid
pound shares buyers offer 18s. 6d.
For the 12 months to June 30 Kampong
Lanjut, which started its first dredge in
August, 1929, netted £15,170. after striking
off £15,378 for depreciation, development,
etc. The second dredge began in April of
this year; both plants average .511 b. per
cubic yard. Costs were 2.9 d. and net realisa-
tion 5.76 d. per yard. The two dredges,
which are the largest in Malaya,, have been
specially designed for cheap working. Sundry
creditors figure at £10,051, and liquids total
£9872. This co., in common with other
alluvial tin shows, reduced its output in
accordance with the association’s policy.
Capital is £300,000 in £1 shares, for which
19s. 3d. is offered. .
* * * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Chances for inexperienced person not
afraid of work making wages on old Vic.
goldfields? (2) How to obtain a miner’s
license and cost? (3) District recom-
mended? (4) Useful books and map? (5)
Prices and where obtainable? —294.
(1) and (3) Chances remote, after 80
years of prospecting by men who know the
job. (2) A miner’s right costs 2s. 6d. p.a.,
obtainable from State Treasury, Melbourne.
(4) and (5) “Miners’ Handbook”, out of
print, but publications dealing with the vari-
ous goldfields and reefs are available from
Mines Department, Melbourne.
(1) If the cost of living were reduced, and
the purchasing power of our legal tender in-
'breased to 20s. per £ sterling, by deflation or
other expedient, would not a' bonus be paid
to .investors in Government stock since, say,
1919 if they were repaid in full at 20s. to
the £? (2) Could not maturities at such
time be equitably met by repayment at pur-
chasing capacity at which the money was bor-
rowed? , (3) Would such re-assessment of
' capital be impracticable, or be considered re-
pudiation if done within Australia? —336.
(1) Yes, it would be equivalent to a bonus.
(2) Not necessarily. A man may have sub-
scribed in (say) 1919, not because he was
satisfied with the then rate, but because he
believed that it would be worth more within
a few years. Unquestionably many men did
so subscribe to loans. Many also will sub-
scribe to the current loan, not because they
are satisfied with 5 p.c. to-day, but because
they believe 5 p.c. will be worth a lot more
at some future time. (3) We believe it
would ; yet The Bulletin itself has used the
great fall in the price of export commodities
as one reason why our creditors might
favorably entertain proposals for some modi-
fication of our contract with them.
(1) What was the price of Australian
loans for some years after the financial crisis
of the ’nineties? (2) Is what happened then
a guide as to what is likely to happen now?
—306.
(1) The credit of the Governments was
not in question in 1893; and, though it was
a little shaken by the crash of the private
banks, it was quite restored 18 months later.
In June, 1892 (before the crash), N.S.W.
Si per cents, were worth 96.19 = £3 14s.
2jd. p.c. p.a., allowing for redemption at
par; in June, ’93 (things were shaking-
then). 92.13 =£3 18s. p.c. p.a.; in June,
’94, 98.21 =£3 12s. 4d. By June, 1900, the
price was back to 103.15 = £3 7s. 3id. p.c.
p.a., still allowing for redemption at par.
(2) In 1891 the total public debt of Aus-
tralia was only 155 millions, whereas in the
four years 1924-28 the public debt was added
to by no less than 145 millions. In other
words, in these four years we borrowed
within a few millions as much as we had
borrowed in all the hundred-odd years prior
to and inclusive of the great boom! It is
doubtful, therefore, whether any conclusions
of much present value can be got from what
followed after the ’93 crash.
(1) Who gets the benefit of exchange: the
exporter or the bank? (2) What is it cost-
ing the taxpayer in Australia to pay our
interest debts abroad? (3) Can the Govern-
ment do anything to regulate this exchange,
or will it adjust itself note that we have
practically stopped imports? —2ol.
(1) The exporter—which means the pro-
ducer, if he isn’t cheated. But the “benefit”
is no more real than high wages are real.
The producer, instead of getting English
money, gets Australian, which is worth much
less than English ; and this exchange is
merely compensation for accepting the
poorer money. (2) Impossible to say. Taxes
paid in depreciated Australian money will
not pay a foreign debt of the same size in
English money; that is to say, they will
not buy in Australia for 20s. enough goods
to pay off 20s. of debt in England, foreign
debts being payable only in gold or what can
be sold for gold. (3) It is a myth that im-
ports have “practically stopped.” In the
three months to the end of September, our
merchandise imports were £20,221,234; aim
that is more than they ever were before
1918-19, and twice as much as they were
before 1905.
Has the C.O.R. made a 'profit on its opera-
tions (1) since its establishment? (2) In
1929-30?—9922.
(1) P. and 1. carry-forward and profits
invested in extensions totalled £182.035 at
June 30, 1930. Some of the losses in estab-
lishment years were met by contributions of
shareholders (Commonwealth Government
and Anglo-Persian Oil Co.), (2) Profit for
year to June 30 last, £51,943.
I hold some pref. shares in New Era In-
surance Go. Any value?- —9872.
One shilling per share has been mentioned
as a possible return.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
D.H.8.: (1) No. (2) A.M.P.’s at the
moment; which in 25 years’ time nobody knows....
J.S.K.: (1) No; but Oil Search, Ltd., is for the
present handling Oriomo’s prospecting. (2) No quota-
tions available. (3) A gamble, like the rest. (4)
Any Brisbane or Sydney stockbroker will handle
shares 0.A.R.: Depends largely upon what you
mean by “financial crash.” Note-inflation would
most seriously affect investors in Government stock,
mortgages, fixed deposits and pref. shares; least
seriously (or not at all) borrowers and debtors of all
kinds and holders of productive real estate : and
ordinary shares... .G.L.M.: (1) You can’t do a
thing except pay up. (2) There will be nothing for
shareholders... .Wild Tom: Tooths, then Hi 115....
B.B.B.: Leave them alone.. . .L. 8.0. : Before you get
in, consider how you’re going to get out. We don’t
know any market. .. .T.M.W.: (1) No quotations
obtainable. (2) See article on Country Killing.


fo
l
CAPSTAN
k
’ vXv
iiiliiiml
mw&m&gBMW&
Vv :: : ;
• *X-:*: : X
; ; ,,v
:
,-.■ ' s *
■■••• pi A '"V';:2
. s - , | Wmm
m s
MjlMmiPP
few: ”: .-
:
i > a , :
::H:?:S:fi>Ss ; :s: : s:gi:gs;>sSSs :: :
I,;',
m
mm
m
mmMmmM
/•<
AY out west, on those endless stations
"back o’ Bourke," that satisfying some-
thing, which has made "Capstans” so
popular with most Australian smokers, is ap-
preciated to the full.
Out there, as in the city, you can always make a
safe wager on a man’s choice of cigarettes. You
can watch any sun-burnt stockman pause to light
up and bet with certainty, 10 to 1 it’s a
Capstan."
11
•'! '
Twenty-two for
one shilling and in
tins of fifty
Oval heavy-weights
in tins of twenty-five
and fifty
Made in your Own Country at the Garden Factory
Raleigh Park by W. D. & H. O. Wills (Australia) Ltd,


THE BULLDOG
OF CHRISTMAS REEF
BY ALBERT DORRINCTON
THE red parasol of the picnic girl had not invaded its
dune-sheltered bay. Also the divers of Torres who go
down to the pearls with lead on their feet had no
inkling of its whereabouts.
A drunken trepang fisher had indicated the position
of the reef to Andy Flynn and his mate Mick Conroy.
Between them they owned the seven-ton lugger Elsie,
together with a bulldog named Bill. There was Skinny
the blackboy, some diving gear and a month’s stores in
the pantry. When the shell was located they intended
bringing a couple of extra hands from Thursday.
Flynn and Conroy had tried most things in Sydney in
their honest efforts to wear clean clothes and see an occa-
sional football match. But Sydney had begun to demand
of its Micks and Andies something more than hairy
paws and pairs of wandering feet. The day had long
passed when a man fresh from the sea could swap his
keg of rum for an acre or so of city land.
But Mick and Andy had the temperament of pioneers.
On the map Thursday Island looked good and not too
crowded. And if Mick didn’t know the difference between
a bank overdraft and a gas
bill, he knew how to stretch
a suit of sails and get his
anchor.
At Thursday they worked
in and out of season, made
tucker and arrived at Christmas
Reef at the moment a schooner
full of Japs took possession
Before Andy or Conroy could
utter a greeting, the plug-
shaped master of the San Toy-
issued his warning.
“You get off here! Plenty-
shell for you on the old banks.
Leave us alone or you get
hurt!”
Mick stood the Elsie towards
the open Strait in the hope of
sighting some Thursday Island
craft. Nothing short of a
cyclone, he knew, would shift
the Japs.
“I’d put the whole gang on
me knee an’ spank their brown
hides,” Andy declared with heat
as he scanned the naked sky-
line. “They’ve no right south
of the equator.”
Mick put the Elsie on a fresh
tack. Then the breeze died and
they hung far to leeward of the
mist-drenched channel, now in
possession of the little Hako-
date pirates.
“The equator doesn’t throuble
some people,” Mick spoke with
his nose in the air. “And your
knee is not as big as you think.
They’re too many for us, an’
there’s an end of it.”
Followed a silence in which
Bill the bulldog took the air
in the forepart, his jaws adrip
with the flavor of a newly
arisen smell. Skinny the
blackboy sat hunched under
the lifeless boom, dreaming of
the Diamantina.
In his sporting days Bill had
released the gas from more
wharfside curs than any other
dog his weight in Sydney. His
memorable scrap with Rat Finnerty’s pup in the old
banana shed at Botany proved beyond doubt that schooner
life had not cramped his style. He belonged to Mick; he
loafed on Mick, ate Mick’s stew, and was known to have
even swallowed Mick’s hard-earned beer. Yet between
Bill and Mick there were no lavish displays of affection or
sentiment. The dog had once spoken out of his turn when
fresh sausages came aboard, and a barrel stave had settled
the argument.
Mick leaned over the side, his, sun-warped eyes peering
curiously. “Did ye ever see a whale fly, Andy?” he
inquired in a sad undertone, without looking up.
Andy was sulking over the late reference to the size of
his knee. “I have not seen a whale fly nor a pig either,’
he answered briskly. Andy’s repartee had come between
him and a few jobs in Sydney. “Where in blazes do whales
fly, anyhow?” he demanded.
Mick chuckled. “They do not fly. It’s a whale fly
I’m talking about. There’s one buzzin’ under your nose.
An’ by the same token can ye smell the worst smell since
the war? Away beyant it lies, like a dead bull among the
dingoes!”
Mick indicated a triangular shaped mass drifting across
their bows. Never in his life had he seen such a mountain
of fat. Above its oil-drenched slopes clouds of sea-hawks
wheeled and squawked. The air seemed to bristle with
their w'ings and claws.
Andy gaped in amazement until the foetid obstruction
was almost under their bows. Then he recoiled in disgust.
Mick appeared lost in thought as he viewed the bird-
ravaged carcase under their rail. From fluke to head
it had become a squashy nightmare of rending talons and
beaks. Hawk fought gull in the bloodstained brine under
its shoulders, while below, in the oil-tainted sea, a school
of sharks guzzled and gouged.
Mick’s eyes snapped; his face was distorted with each
breath of the poisoned air. “Of all the rotten things
from the icepacks these dead blowers are the worst!” he
growled. ... ,
“Damn the wind!” Andy cried, staring at the empty shy.
“ ’Tis always leaving us under the lee of some plague-heap
or other!” ,
Mick did not speak for a while. His face was cramped
in the effort of thought. Then he looked up.,
“Never mind the wind, Andy. I’ve an idea that will
serve us better than cursing. We’ll hitch a line to this
whale beef an’ give it a tow!”
“A tow!” Andy glared at his partner. “Tow that?
Man, what’s happened to you? Tow thirty tons of rotting
fat into Thursday!” - ,
Mick’s grin broadened. “Easy, my son! Theres more
fight in that old whale than.you’d put up in a week. I’m
asking that we give it a tow back to the reef. It’s going
to be a hound of a job with all those feathers an’ claws
in our wake.” He indicated the screeching, diving clouds
of ravenous gulls, perching and holing into the bloated
hump. .
Andy’s jaw hung. He was inclined to regard his mate
as a time-waster. Of course the presence of the dead whale
within the tide-washed channel, of Christmas Reef would
be a nuisance to the Japs. Any old sheller knew that.
But if Mick thought . . ■
“Are we giving it a tow or leavin’ it to the gulls.
Mick demanded. “The chance will not come again,.l tell
ye. Ye’ll find it’ll be as good as a launchful of cops!”
HOT ON HIS TRACKS.
POLICEMAN: “Seen a man pass here riding a grey horse?"
JACKY: “Too plurry right I have.”
POLICEMAN: “How long ago?”
J ACKY: “Mine bin tinkit about two year ago, Boss.”
Andy stepped aft and uncoiled a rope, while Mick
prepared to drive a bar into the shoulders of the dead
monster
AT the first blush of dawn the following day the master
of the San Toy drew a deep breath at the open
doorway of his cabin amidships. Then he spat care-
fully over the rail and addressed Shimo, the cook, standing
within the galley.
“The stink,” he announced, “is anchored under our
quarter! Shut your door, Shimo, or our food will be
poisoned!”
Higo, the pearling master, was fifty, with a pock-
pitted face and the shoulders of a pocket Hercules. The
first whiff of the putrefying sea-beast had stolen into his
dreams of distant geishas. The smell annoyed and alarmed
him, since he depended mainly on skin divers for his shell.
In a little while the waters of the channel would be swarm-
ing with sharks and other terrors of the deep.
He stared fiercely into the dawn-reddened waters
under his quarter, while the poisonous odor of the long-
dead whale streamed over and through the half-awakened
San Toy. ■■■ ■> . . . .
“Ateo!” It was a skin diver that spoke, his hand pressed
over his flat nose. “Those Australees put it there in the
night. We sleep too hard, Higo,” he complained.
“The red-haired pigs!” a boy called from the bowsprit,
where he was peering at the rotting pestilence. “See now,
Higo, the water is stiff with shark! Under its belly are
stingrays and other devils. Did no one hear them in the
night, or smell this thing when they trawled it here? ’
Higo’s jaw snapped as he noted the procession of sea-
horrors streaming into the channel. It would be midday
before the tide-rip set in. Even then he was not sure that
the carcase would shift. If it held, he knew that for week*
the waters of the channel would be dangerous for his
men. He had no means of destroying the huge cairn unless
it was towed inshore and burned on the beach. Thirty oi
forty tons at least! Even then the blood-maddened
monsters would not soon leave. And the pock-pitted Higo
was in a hurry.
The boy astride the long bowsprit pointed to a small
wind-bound lugger, scarcely visible through the morning
mists. She was lying within a sheltered inlet, her low
stern almost touching the bank. .
“The bulldog men!” Higo grunted. “Caught m that
windtrap. Caught! You hear?” He turned gleefully to
the brown pack of little men gathered in the schooner s
wa i s t- , ~r , it
A yell broke from the San Toy.s crew. Instantly
their aggressive brains cleared for action.
“There is no wind for them to run away! Higo
repeated. “They are pigs in a hole!”
Higo’s ' voice snarled the yelping divers to silence.
He indicated a / longboat hanging in the for ard falls.
“Lower it!” he ordered without a lift in his voice. Bung
those men, with the bulldog, into this channel. There was
a moment’s silence as the crew leaped to obey. Then.
“Do not bring them aboard the San Toy! I here was a
halt ■in the lowering of the boat. Each saddle-brown face
was turned to Higo, awaiting his second order. Do not
bring them aboard,” he repeated. “Put them over there,
in that rocky hole!” He pointed to a tide-scoured basin in
the break of the reef that emptied with the falling tide. A
few ti-trees struggled on its sand-blown rim. Take them
there. Tie them up with their
bulldog. Then we will clean up
this reef. But not before we
have played a new kind of fish-
sport. Go; I am waiting!”
The longboat, with eight
plug-necked little tigers at the
oars, pulled away from 'the
San Toy in the direction of the
becalmed Elsie.
Andy Flynn was frying a
piece of tough steak over a
smoky galley fire. He was
chuckling at the thought of the
overnight trick played on the
pearl-poachers. The thumping
of feet on the adjoining cabin
floor warned him that Mick
was out of his bunk and would
be heading for steak before
Bill and Skinny had a chance.
“A good thing, Mick,” Andy
called out, “ye thought of that
whale stunt. When it comes to
schemin’ out a neat bit of
strategy, it’s you that’s the
gineral.”
“Sure the idea would have
come to anyone,” Mick
answered deprecatingly, his
wrong arm in the sleeve of his
worn dungarees. “No credit to
me for helpin’ the poor corpse
to its proper cimitery. Begob,
the steak smells good this
mornin,’ my boy!”
Andy was about to flip the
meat into a tin dish when
the San Toy’s longboat came
through the mists with the
speed of welshers at a pony
meeting.
The pan clanked from Andy’s
fingers on to the iron stove as
Mick whirled from the cabin
door. Andy was staring in be-
wilderment at the oncoming
boat. His voice was a high-
pitched wail.
“Ye said these Nippies would
eat the bluff. God in Heaven-!
Look at them. They’re here —
on our necK!
Mick sprang clear of the cabin door and met a. blow
on the head, delivered with the force of a stallion’s kick.
A second caught him in the region reserved for fried steak,
and the hero of nine fights took the count. Andy got off
with a stunned feeling in the stomach and head; and a
long fishing net tied up the fight-crazy bulldog as it
charged into the thick of the boarding party.
There were no banzais —only the sound of Andy search-
ing for his breath and the voice of the neglected steak
calling from the galley fire.
Skinny disappeared overboard at the moment Mick
stopped the hardest blow ever delivered to a man before
breakfast. The sandhills and the ti-tree swallowed him.
And the smell of burning steak went up like an offering
to the gods of old Japan as the two white men and the
net-wrapped bulldog were taken to where Higo stood
waiting within the coral basin between the reefs.
“Well?” Higo grinned down at the two bound men
and the snorting, scandalised Bill. “You think your fish
stink will drive away the men of the San Toy, eh?” He
poked Bill playfully in the ribs and lit a cigarette.
“You’re just a crowd of wops!” Mick replied from
the sandhole where the boatmen had flung him. “You’ve
got no license to fish off these banks. First time you’re
spotted by a police boat they’ll cut off your tails and strip
your schooner!” ,
The San Toy rolled in the tideway like an unclear
bird at roost. Half a dozen Japs were scanning a big
baited hook which had been cast near the dead whale


Higo directed their efforts, while the sun thrust itself over
the low sandhills.
A sudden cry from the line-holders sent Higo to the
cord l6 SIX a P s were holding on the stiff, vibrating
, “Yahee, yahee!” Higo hauled with them, the muscles
ot flis throat and arms bulging.
A terrific commotion began at the end of the line.
V l6 , water was whipped into waves, from one of which
tfie blue head of a monster shark appeared. But there was
peace - only for an instant; then again the struggle was
on, the Japs pitting their skill and cunning against the
incredible strength of their prey.
From where he lay Mick saw a grey belly flash, and
again the blue head with its cave of razor-edged teeth
clashing on the hook.
tp J a P s played brains against strength,
hoot by foot they steered their catch to the coral basin
where the two white men lay. In all his life Andy had
never seen so much pent-up iury. The brute was trapped
now within a shallow enclosure, and its body thrashed
the. reef with flailing strokes, the iron hook still within
its jaws.
Higo spoke at last
to the man in charge
of the netted bulldog,
while a little sheller
sat on its head. In
the bat of an eye a
noosed line was made
fast around the dog;
the noose was knotted
and the men stood
away.
Bill stood up, brist-
ling and watchful.
“The tide is full,”
Higo declared. “Now
for the sport!”
THE crew of the
San Toy had
formed a circle
about the coral basin,
which at its greatest
depth held no more
than five feet of
water.
The tide had now
begun slowly to ebb,
and the monster’s instincts com-
pelled it to further efforts to
gain the open sea. A jag on
the line brought it round to the
shallow, end.
A howl of laughter went up
as Bill was led through the
sand. Mick craned forward to
glimpse the proceedings, a
horrible suspicion in his mind
that the dog was about to
suffer for their folly. “You’re
not going to feed the pup to that blasted maneater!” he
called out. “Sure ye have a sense of decency among ye!”
His protest was ignored by the grinning crowd.
The man holding the dine stepped thigh-deep into
the water, leaving Bill on the edge of the basin, straining
against the tight-drawn cord.
With extreme caution the Jap waded in the rear of the
struggling shark, then waited, stiff-poised, until , the tail fin
ceased flailing the air. With a lightning cast of his coiled
rope a noose fell and encircled the bladed extremity. A
dozen yelling voices applauded the feat as the Jap sprang
from the water with the celerity of a stockman avoiding
a charging bull; the six men holding the shark line
savagely jagged the hook; and in the same instant Mick
saw his dog make a flying curve through the air and
fall into the churning waters of the basin.
Rising to the surface the dog struck out for the reef.
But he was not to get there. Within ten feet of the sandy
sides his rope grew taut, the shark’s propeller fin made a
left-to-right movement, and Bill was lifted bodily from
the water and hurled across the basin.
Gasping and snuffling he battled to the surface, half-
blinded. His anger and disgust were great. Turning sud-
denly in the water he observed the steely . propeller fin
which had caused the mischief. Deliberately doubling
back, he headed straight for his tormentor.
“Yahee! He will take a ride!” came from the yelling
crowd about the basin. “Look out, Oku!”
At that call the line was snatched, deepening the gash
in the shark’s reddened jaws. The tail fin swept up, and
Bill skated across the surface of the water as though
he had been fired from a gun.
Higo held up his hand. “The dog has had enough.”
Instantly a Jap sprang into the water and slashed the
line. Bill struggled ashore, choking and shaking the brine
from his heaving sides.
“A good dog!” Higo conceded. Then his slant eyes
roved over the roped figures of Mick and Andy. He.
seemed to fix on Mick as the one responsible for the
whale blockade.
“A pig would have known better than drag such offal
near my ship,” he said slowly. “It is something you will
tell to your friends at Thursday Island! A good joke, eh?”
For once in his life Mick was slow to respond. He had
sensed the murder gleam in the skipper’s eye.
“Ye have no right in these waters,” he said at last.
“An’ ye may try your wfflole bag of monkey tricks on me
to please those grinnin’ scuts up there. Ye’ve the laugh
on me now, little man, but there’s enough rope in these
parts to hang a thousand like ye! Mine is here and yours
is cornin’!”
Higo signed to the fishermen not to disturb the shark
sulking in the tide-washed shallows, its head resting on a
rib of sand at the basin entrance.
At a word one of the fishermen gathered the cut rope
trailing from the shark’s propeller fin and deftly knotted
it to a longer piece. Approaching Mick he fastened
the rope in bolt-like knots about his waist. Higo nodded
from afar.
“Cut his hands free,” he ordered, “or there will be
no sport. Get ready. The morning has been wasted.”
In that moment Mick Conroy tasted death in its
most sinister form. It needed but a jag of the hook to
repeat the show which Bill had provided, only that Bill
would now be watching him provide it.
From where he lay he could see the blue snout of the
shark pointing seaward, its grey back bulging like a reef from
the shallow wafer. For an instant a flash of hope steadied
his pounding heart. It was possible that the shark had
succumbed to the readings of the hook. Or was it too
exhausted after its battle to continue the game?
The six fishermen stood waist-deep in the outrushing
tide, the hooked line trailing loosely in the water. It
needed but a slight jerk to wake the sulking monster to
action.
A naked Jap, standing on the crest of the sand-ridge
overlooking the basin, whistled shrilly—once, twice—
before bolting towards the schooner’s dinghy near by. A
plume of black smoke had risen from the south, blowing
nearer with every fresh gust from the Strait.
Higo scanned it critically. The Australian police-boats
did not throw smoke over the skyline, he told himself.
But his nephew, Tamana Cyana, who kept a shop at
Thursday Island, had given him word, a few days before, of
a destroyer cruising in the locality.
Higo snapped a word to the gaping crew of the San
Toy, and there was a rush to the schooner. On board they
bent to the task of hoisting their boom and foresail. A
strong breeze was now blowing across the drifts with the
outgoing tide. The San Toy took it sluggishly, steering
a mid-channel course to the open waters beyond the
bellowing reefs.
In the silence that followed the schooner’s departure
Mick found himself alone with Andy trussed like a
AN UNFORTUNATE REMINDER.
ARTIST: “What do I care for the critics? I’ll nail my colors to the mast!”
MODEL: “That’s the spirit! ’Member they said you was wasting your time trying to
put ’em on canvas?”
rooster. His searching hands went out to the slack line
that bound him to the monster at the basin exit. A single
cut would have severed the line, but the Japs had taken
his knife. The wet knots bulged like the fists of a devil
in the glaring sun. His fingers dug into them with all his
strength. But Japanese schooner hands do not put to
sea without mastering the art of binding a man up with
his own neckcloth.
Sweat blinded his face as he tore at the knots. He
paused only once to look at the hump of the man-eater
swaying idly on its side. Was it dead? Surely even a shark
could not survive the hellish punishment inflicted by the
hook in its gullet.
He turned warily in the direction where Andy lay.
“Ye have a knife, Andy!” he said huskily. “Get hold of
the dog. He’ll take it from ye in his mouth. Then I’ll
whistle him. I’m tied to this accursed bluehead!”
Andy’s reply proved that he was in difficulties. “The
skunk of a cook took my knife and fourpence I had.
I’m roped like the man we saw put in a box at the show.
I can’t help at all, Mick!”
The bulldog rose from the sand and trotted to Mick’s
side. He patted it with a shaking hand. “Keep quiet,
for the love of Heaven, Bill!” he whispered. “One yelp
from ye now will wake the divil. Quiet!”
A slight ripple on the water turned him sharply.
The hump had straightened suddenly; an electric quiver
shot through its ugly length. It was as though the sound
of Mick’s voice had reached it. Half-turning on its side
it darted towards the tidal exit.
It was as if a typhoon had flung Mick through the
air. He struck the water feet first, and for a few seconds
was torn round in a millwheel that blinded and choked.
In the centre of the millwheel of blood and brine his
feet touched bottom. The shark had grounded on the bar
at the basin’s mouth!
“Holy Mother!” Mick shook the water from his eyes
and took breath.
A dozen feet away the shovel snout bored and rooted
against the rib of sand, the great fins glistening in the
sunlight. Then, drifting side-on to the bar, it sought
cunningly to float out with the now racing tide.
Mick tore at the Jap’s knots, for he felt that the
monster’s next effort might succeed. The hasty departure
of the line-holders had given it a free hand. He had known
of hammerheads and bluepointers jumping and flailing their
way to open water when trapped within a reef pocket.
“Head him off, Bill! Sool him round! Up, son, up!”
Mick was not anxious to save his own skin at the
expense of the dog. He required only a few precious
seconds to unravel the knots. Only a few seconds. His
thumb had already broken into the toughest loop.
“Head him off, Bill! Now!”
For many generations Bill’s ancestors had lived and
thrived according to their ability to hold Kent and Suffolk
bulls by the nostrils. Now his response to his master’s
appeal was a flying leap that took him into the centre
of the basin, landing him within a foot of the shark’s
flukes. The snapping head was not unconscious of the
dog’s proximity. Again it thrashed forward to the bar,
only to recoil, the huge jaws upthrust.
The sudden backwash from its laboring fins drew the
dog under the upturned snout. A foot below the pointed
snout was a gaping chasm of teeth capable of reducing a
shinbone to pulp. To the watching Mick it looked as
though Bill was bound for the chasm.
He was wrong. The dog’s grip closed on the protruding
flesh of the over jaw.
Mick sucked in a breath of anguish at the dog’s
unexpected action. “Ye’ll be chawed up!” he yelled, his
fingers well into the knots about his waist. “Ye fool,
let go!”
But Bill did not let go. He discovered in his fighting
ecstasy that the cone of the man-eater’s snout was as
soft gristle between his teeth. He was also aware of the
insecurity of his position and the nearness of many horrid
teeth. The shark’s head was still able to submerge to the
depth of a foot or more—but the teeth were there if he
let go!
The blue head shook in a spasm of awakened fury,
while Bill bunched his four legs and locked his jaws. He
felt that something was coming.
The snout dipped in a storm of brine and sand,
and Bill was dragged from the slippery place where he
had bunched his paws. He tasted the bitter water squirting
through his clenched jaws as the tide engulfed him.
Mick paused in his struggle with the knots to watch
the end of the dog he was powerless to help. The snout
rose, spraying foam and blood as it plunged over in the
tideway, with Bill still clamped above the sabre-edged jaws.
Again he was smothered and shaken like a rat as the
shark, bucked and floundered on the bar. A long wave
swung in, allowing the monster a -complete turn on its
side. The chasm of teeth closed with a jar, missing Bill’s
wriggling body by a hand’s breadth.
“Hold on like hell,” Mick shouted.
Mick had released the noose that held him to the
swishing rope. Wading across the basin he grabbed the
line which still held the hook in the shark’s gullet. Flinging
his weight upon it, he was able to steer for a moment the
plunging head of the monster.
“Let go, Bill!” he volleyed. “Let go! I’m holdin’
here!”
Bill’s reply was a plain refusal to obey Mick’s order.
Now the shark had its moment. With the renewed
pressure of the hook, the shovel head jolted clear of
the tide, and its body formed an arch. Then it straightened
with lightning speed.
Bill in his pride experienced a jolt equal to the kick
of a six-inch gun. He flew past Mick with shark-gristle
between his teeth.
“Sure you’re the luckiest dog this side of the Creation!”
Mick cried as he jumped clear of the flogging hook-line.
Bill glanced across the foam-lashed basin, the ragged
snout beating hopelessly against the sand-rib. Then, reluct-
antly, he followed Mick to where Andy was lying in the
deep drift.
ANDY shook himself free from the last knot about his
ankles. “Have ye any more of the big ideas, Mick,
that keep ye awake at night?” he asked.
“I have not,” Mick retorted, helping Andy to his
feet. “Annyway, a bit of a scrap once in a while is good
for dogs an’ min. That little feller with the pig’s ears
landed ye a great wallop, Andy,” he added commiserat-
ingly.
Skinny’s black outline appeared suddenly on the edge
of the basin. He was waving wildly in the direction of a
low reef-barrier half-way down the channel.
“Twenty million bags of shell, boss! All alonga reef.
You catch um quick!”
Mick stared at Andy. “Shell? What d’ye make of
his talk?”
“He’s found a plant!” Andy flung out, scrambling in
the blackboy’s direction. Mick followed, with Bill behind.
Within a recess on the southern extremity of Christmas
Reef the two white men came upon a small pyramid of
bags filled with gold-edge shell. The bags bore the marks
of a Hakodate firm.
“Heigh-ho, me bold Higo!” Mick chortled. “Lifting
more shell than ye could stow in your rat-bellied schooner,
were ye, then!”
“Sure he’ll be back before we can get it aboard the
Elsie!” Andy lamented.
“No feah!” the blackboy chuckled, lifting a piece of
shell the size of a dinner-plate from the nearest bag.
“One big warship catch him up alonga channel an’ take
him to Thursday Island. Me watch um, boss. Plenty gaol
in Thursday!”
Skinny had brought the Elsie’s dinghy close inshore.
Inside an hour, under the freshening breeze, the handy
little lugger was within the sheltered cove.
Mick handed his last piece of tobacco to the grinning
blackboy. “ ’Twas the father of a lickin’ I intended for
ye,, Skinny, for the way ye hoofed it awhile ago,” he said.
“But it’s sense ye have, after all.”
A HORSE OF ANOTHER COLOR.
“I took his temperature with that glass thing you gave
me, Doctor, and it’s gone down.”
“Ah, that’s right—that means he’s getting better.”
“Oh, Doctor, are you sure?—I mean he’s swallowed it!”
“And the sooner the stuff’s aboard the Elsie the better!”
Andy added, moving up the plank with the first bag of
shell. “We haven’t to wear a rubber neck and a goblin
helmet to raise it here, Mick. And this is the idea ye
didn’t get when ye first smelt that old whale!”
Far down the channel a shark with hook and line
trailing from its jaws thrashed out its life on a naked
sandbar.


( f PARIS LEAVE
By Charles Cooper.
CORPORAL HECTOR LITTLEWOOD was as hard-
boiled a Digger as you’d have found from Armen-
tieres to Estaires. Straight as a blue-gum, well-
proportioned, willow-limbed, he carried his six feet of
muscular energy with the gait of one born and bred in the
Queensland bush.
When enlisting he had ridden over a hundred miles
to the nearest recruiting office. Aged a few months over
sixteen, he sullied the pellucid truth by giving his age as
eighteen. Stripped before the M. 0., his body bore
striking testimony to his physical fitness, and he was duly
attested without his age being questioned.
There were as many sides to his character as facets to
a diamond; and one of them was the faculty of making
other people his instruments, not by command nor appeal,
but by tact. Throughout the battalion he was known as
Chips. No one ever spoke of him as Corporal Littlewood.
Not even the Colonel. It was either Chips plain or Cor-
poral Chips—to which he had the right to add D.C.M.
Another unit of the battalion
was Private Archibald Tompsitt.
He was barely five feet three,
cheery and chirpy, and so, in-
evitably, the Tom Tit. Generous,
sincere and earnest, he trusted his
friends to the utmost; and of these
friends the greatest was Chips.
Together they received their bap-
tism of fire at the landing at
Gallipoli; together they charged
machine-guns at Pozieres and faced
crunching 5.9’s at bloody Mouquet
Farm; together they shivered and
floundered through Flers mud
during the relentless 1916 winter,
and back on the Armentieres
sector, the Digger’s paradise; to-
gether they went on leave to Paris.
Corporal Chips, D.C.M., sat in
the warm sun at the door of his
billet, and viewed his singlet with
the eye of extreme disfavor. There
was beauty neither in the singlet
nor in the eye of the beholder.
The thing was invaded by an army
of creeping, hungry, grey-colored
insects, which, in spite of frequent
heavy barrages at the hands of the
owner, multiplied at an astonishing
rate.
The eyes of the corporal had
narrowed to a thin slit, in which
lust for murder gleamed savagely.
“Take that, you cow!” he growled
as his thumbnails met with a pre-.
cision borne of much practice.
Beside him a lighted candle
flickered. This was now turned up-
side down, and, with a steady hand
the hot grease was poured on to
the seams. So absorbed was he
that he did not hear the sounds of
rapid footsteps as the Tom Tit
approached him. He was in form -
ing himself that if White Leghorns
laid •as many eggs as chats do,
poultry-keeping would be exceed-
ingly lucrative, when he heard his
pal’s voice.
“Heard the news, Chips?”
“About the venerable Squire?
They say he’s quite defunct,” re-
plied Chips without removing his
gaze from his undergarment.
“No, leave. Paris leave!” the
Tom Tit exclaimed excitedly.
“While we’re out in reserve any
of the bat. can get five days’ Paris
leave.”
“Five days’ Paris leave?
There’s a catch somewhere,” said
Chips, his interest in his singlet
abating considerably.
“So there is,” replied the Tom
Tit. “Each one has to produce
twelve quid, or have it in his pay-
book. I’m only worth a hundred-
franc note.”
“That’s torn it—mine’s overdrawn,” uttered Chips
lugubriously. For a moment or two he became wrapt in
profound meditation. Then he spoke: “They say the bat.’s
moving up to the line soon. By the time a bloke cabled
home to Australia and got some dough, the darn leave’ll
be cut out. That’s a little habit the blighters have.
There’s only one thing for it, Tommy. What’s yours is
mine. Come, mon enfant, away to yon two-up cathedral.
Sydney or the bush!”
The two-up school was usually held near the battalion
cookers on the outskirts of Fleurbaix. In this direction
they proceeded.
Sure enough the khaki-clad ring, with the central
figure who precipitated two rapidly revolving pennies into
the air, had formed, and nothing less than a 5.9 would have
shifted it. Here in response to Chips’s bidding to .“hand
over the sugar,” the Tom Tit produced his hundred-franc
note, at that time the equivalent of approximately £4.
With the Devil’s blessing Chips placed the note on the
ground.
“A hundred onks he heads ’em,” cried the corporal.
“Set,” exclaimed one of the sporting enthusiasts.
Up in the air went the
coins. Simultaneously thirty or
forty heads leaned backwards,
as the flight of the pennies was
watched. Down came the coins;
down came the “tin lids,” and
eyes gleamed feverishly.
“He’s headed ’em,” came
from a dozen throats.
“Two hundred on tails,”
challenged Chips.
“You’re on,” accepted a financial Digger, at the same
time placing his notes on the ground.
Again the pennies looped the loop, and again helmeted
heads craned backwards, and then downwards, as though
automatically controlled by a single lever.
“Micks are right! Have a spin, Dig.”
Chips took the coins, and the Tom Tit acted the
role of banker. Placing the two pennies carefully on his
middle finger, he addressed Private Tompsitt: “Sink or
swim, Tommy!”
The Tom Tit placed the four hundred francs on the
ground. This amount was covered by an affluent
quartermaster sergeant.
“All set?”
“Right!”
Up in the air went the coins, gleaming in the sunlight.
Heads again. Private Tompsitt, vibrating with subdued
excitement, gathered in eight hundred francs. “Chips is
a corker,” he muttered.
THE RECORD-BREAKER.
“Fond of sunset effects, are you?”
“Oh, I dote on them. I could watch them all day.”
“Paris or the trenches, Tommy!”
“Good oh,” and on the green turf he deposited the
notes. Another eight hundred francs were placed alongside
by various members of the human circle. With no more
concern than though he were tossing for drinks, Chips
turned the coins in the air.
Heads again!
“The beggar’s unnatural!” one disgusted warrior mut-
tered savagely.
“Neck or nothing, Tommy!”
The Tom Tit answered by placing sixteen hundred
francs on the ground in the centre of the ring. But the
school was now nearly broke. Several one-hundred-franc
notes, a number of fifties, and sundry twenties, tens, fives,
down even to a mutilated Lille half-franc note, were laid
alongside the sixteen hundred.
“Combien?” asked Chips, as he carefully manoeuvred
the coins into position on his finger.
“Ten hundred odd,” answered the Tom Tit, his heart
palpitating with violent excitement. ...
Overhead a Taube flew amid an ever-widening circle
of white shrapnel bursts from a battery of three-inch
Archies. None of the assembly troubled
however. Two-up was of more consequence
than a German aeroplane, and on no account
could the national pastime be disturbed.
Chips gazed heavenwards. “They’re
getting close to that Fritz up there, he
observed. Then, allowing his hand to fall
almost to its full length, he propelled it
rapidly upwards, and the coins were flung
high.
One head and one tail. The excitement
was intense. Chips extracted a packet
of Comforts Fund cigarettes from his
tunic pocket, selected one, lit it. He showed least
traces of excitement of any. Neither did he turn his head
when a spent nosecap landed beside the throng with an
unpleasant thud. The Archies continued to blaze away.
The German turned and flew in the direction of Lille.
Chips tossed the coins.
“Heads are right!”
“Shake hands, Chips,” joyfully exclaimed the Tom Tit.
“You’re the ace of trumps. We’re worth over a hundred
quid!”
“Let’s imshee and get the blooming passes before they
change their minds about the blanky leave,” answered
Chips.
Steenwerk, twelve kilometres or so distant, was rail-
head. In this direction Chips and the Tom Tit wended
with light hearts and heavy wallets.
“What an uncharitable and suspiciously minded cove
the adjutant is!” observed Chips. “When I collected the
passes he said we had exactly five days’ leave from the
time we reached Steenwerk, and then added, ‘And don’t
forget it.’ Anyone would think we might overstay our
leave if we had half a chance.”
“Wouldn’t dream of it,” remarked the Tom Tit, a happy
smile playing around the corners of his mouth.
“Idea’s absurd,” said Chips, an audacious light shining
in his alert brown eyes, “even if the funds hung out. And
talking of funds reminds me that we’ll have to be careful.
We’ve only fifty quid each, and that’s got to spin out for
five days.”
“Yes, economy’s the word,”
answered the Tit, and they smiled
mutually.
Through Bac Saint Maur and
Crois du Bac they walked, their
accoutrements jingling in harmony
with their spirits. Steenwerk, their
destination, was the next village,
but here a bitter disappointment
awaited them. The passenger
train down to Staples, the junction
of the Boulogne-Paris express, ran
every second day only, and had
left three hours before their arrival.
At the station they were
greeted by Angas Donald Mc-
Tavish, of the Royal Scots, badly
wounded during the retreat from
Mons, and now the railway trans-
port sergeant. In addition to his
Scots cap he wore the heather of
the Highlands—the latter all over
his face.
“When’s the next train for
Paris, Jock?” asked Chips, his face
aglow with pleasant anticipation.
“Och, mon, I’m fearrt ye canna
gang awa’ th’ day. Thairre isna
e’en a frreight trrain aunteel t’-
marrow, an’ no paassengairr foorr
twa days. Th’ paassengairr lef’ at
aicht-thurty th’ morn, ye unner-
staun, an’ e’en wi’ th’ frreight.
trrain t’-marrow, ye canna catch
th’ Paris express at th’ junction
aunteel th’ day aftaairr, ye’ll ken.”
“ ’Struth!” gasped Chips. “If
we’re not stiff! Nothing doing for
two days, Tommy.”
“Stiff’s the word,” agreed the
Tom T. “We’re that stiff if it was
raining bungalows we’d get a dug-
out.”
“Look here, Jock,” said Chips
after the first pangs of disappoint-
ment had worn off, “if we can get
a train down to the junction in
time to catch the Paris express
to-morrow you’re on a hundred
francs.”
Sergeant McTavish gazed
around the station yard, and hope-
lessly murmured, “A hunner francs,
a hunner francs!” the while he
groaned sympathy and condolence
—for himself.
“What about that train over
there?” questioned Chips, pointing
to a smoking engine and a row of
a dozen empty trucks.
“Och, mon, ’tis a trrain o’
empties returrnin’t’ th’ base. Eet’s
been here a’ th’ day. Th’ stokerr’s
been tak’ seeck, verra seeck, an’
maybe she’ll stay foor twa oor mail’
days.”
Again the Tom Tit drew a
comparison as to the degree of
their stiffness and remarked that if
hens laid sovereigns they’d only get 5.9’s for breakfast.
“Well,” cried Chips, “we’re going over to the boozer
behind the station, where the little lame girl lives. If
anything turns up, come over at the toot.”
“And the footer the sweeter,” was the Tit’s parting
injunction as he moved off with Chips.
The worthy Angas Donald continued to meditate after
the two Australians had departed from the station. “Eef
ainly th’ stoker wasna seeck! A hunner francs! Wunner-
fu’. Guid Lord, what couldna a mon do weeth a hunner
francs —th’ dreenkin’ an’ sic like. A geeft, as ye micht ca’
eet. Weel, weel, Angas, I never thocht ye’d e’er be offered
a hunner francs. Why th’ de’il isna a trrain cummin’ th’
noo?” and Sergeant McTavish continued to ponder with
a submissive, fatalistic piety.
“Hell and Tommy!” suddenly exclaimed Private Tomp-
sitt excitedly. “Here comes Jock, and he can’t get here
quick enough!”
Jock entered the estaminet, a picture of aggressive
health and spirits.
“Ken ye hoo t’ stoke?” he asked breathlessly.


Stoke? Can a flapper flap!” replied Chips eagerly.
‘ Old Nick s not in the hunt with me and me cobber,” con-
tinued Chips, instinctively scenting that there was some-
thing doing in railway locomotion.
Jock explained. The stoker of the empty train return-
ing to the base was far too ill to do any work, but if they
would do the stoking he would arrange to send the train
on down to Etaples. The driver of the engine was hostile
to the proposal, but he, McTavish, being transport ser-
geant, was prepared to order him to proceed.
Chips promptly handed Angas a hundred-franc note,
purchased a bottle of champagne from Marie Louise (most
estaminets had a Marie Louise, or a Germaine—sometimes
both), and the trio hurried back to the station yard.
It was, however, a very surly enginedriver -who
accepted his new stokers. He was distinctly unsociable,
and showed it by wintry looks and monosyllabic replies
when Chips or the Tom Tit addressed him. The two Aus-
tralians were unwelcome. That was most evident.
“Well, so long, Scotty,” said Chips, as he climbed up
the side of the big engine. “Don’t hurt yourself when.you
fall off the water-waggon.”
“Good-bye Jock,” echoed the Tom Tit.
“Guid luck! Watch th’ Paris lassies—they’re ower
beweetchin’,” beamed the jocular Jock.
For his part the driver ground his teeth, viciously pulled
a lever over, spat, and the journey began.
“What time does the Paris express pass through
Etaples?” asked Chips, as he heaved a shovelful of coal into
the furnace.
“Dunno,” replied the driver sulkily.
“Cheerful soul!” murmured Chips to himself; then
added aloud: “How far are we from Etaples now?”
. “Dunno,” answered the taciturn one with smouldering
resentment.
“Think we’ll win the war?” ventured the Tit, as he in
turn applied his shovel to
the coal and bent his back.
“No,” replied the
driver with a withering
glance of scorn.
“Quite a little opti-
mist,” mused Chips. “Come
far to-day?” he asked.
The grunted reply was
an ejaculation that hovered
between sulkiness and con-
tempt.
The mental comments
of Chips on the driver were
unflattering, occasionally
even almost gross.
“Have a cigarette?”
asked Chips, outpouring a
stream of courtesy upon
him.
The driver deigned
no reply, but gazed ahead.
“How many stations
between here and
Etaples?” questioned
Chips.
“Dunno, but we stop
at ’em all,” snapped the
driver. The thought seemed
to cheer him.
Chips voted him the
two ends of something tied
up with embellishments.
“Gawd, I’m thirsty,” he
ejaculated.
“D ic k e’n I’m not
either,” echoed the Tit,
wiping his brow.
Chips produced the
bottle of champagne pur-
chased back at the Steen-
werk estaminet. “Have a
wet?” he asked addressing
the driver.
“No:”
“Teetotaller?” gently
inquired Chips.
“No.”
“Not thirsty?” queried
the Tit.
Private Tompsitt had
spoken to himself, as the
train crawled along, the
powerful engine puffing
placidly away at a good
twelve miles an hour
through the limpid after-
noon air. Chips figured
that they would be exceed-
inorlir lnr»lrtr if voonhorl
mgiy mcxy 11 iney reacnea
Etaples before half of their five days’ leave had expired.
More shovels of coal from the stokers; more grime on
their faces and hands; more contented puffs from the
engine; more sour looks from the rebellious driver, and
more applications of the champagne bottle.
The Tit began to assume a hope-fled, faith-dead
expression. The driver accepted the evils of the situation
with a bovine philosophy, and, humming to himself “It’s
a long way to Tipperary,” mentally resolved it was just as
far to Etaples, and if these two so-and-sos reached there
under a couple of days he’d “eat ’is blinkin’ ’at.” Chips,
on his side, was just as determined that they would
reach Etaples that very day. When Chips made good
resolutions he invariably broke them. When he registered
mischievous mental determinations he always carried them
out, and he now proceeded to pit his wits against those
of the unsociable enginedriver.
For a while only the puffing of the engine was heard
as Chips performed some mental gymnastics; then, with
wits alert, he gathered for an overwhelming offensive.
“How long does it take to understand all about an
engine?” he asked somewhat obsequiously.
“Years,” replied the apparently highly experienced driver.
“Blime!” exclaimed Chips admiringly. “You must be some
engineer to be able to drive an extra-big engine like this.”
“Takes some doing,” replied the driver, which was the
longest sentence he had spoken since the journey began.
“That sounds a bit more encouraging,” muttered Chips
to himself, and he angled for a further bite.
“Beats me,” pursued Chips, his voice vibrating with
earnestness—“do you mean to say you know everything
about all these levers and gadgets?”
“That I do,” warmly replied the authority on steam-
engines, demonstrating that he had swallowed the bait.
“The cow’s beginning to thaw,” murmured Chips.
“Engine-driving would do me for a profession, only i
haven’t got the brains,” commented Chips. “I suppose
to drive an engine like this you’ve got to be well out of
the common.”
“True that,” answered the driver with decided interest
in his voice. “I used to be a shunter at Sheffield, where
me old man was a porter. I was picked out for special
injin work in France. I’ve ’ad twenty years’ drivin’, and
wot I don’t know about injins ain’t worth knowin’.”
“You’re right there,” vehemently answered Chips—
“it’s easy to see that. You’re the niftiest driver I’ve
ever seen. Why, in Australia a man with your intelligence
and personality would be a chief engineer or something
drawing a thousand a year. If I were you, after the war
I’d go out. Wonderful opportunities for men with brains
—like you. Aren’t there, Tommy?”
“Too blooming right there are,” asserted the Tit. “Sydney’s
the place. They’re crying out for engineers of your stamp.”
The driver leaned back against the handbrake, ex-
panded his chest and visualised a thousand a year.
“ ’Struth, stoking makes a bloke thirsty,” exclaimed
Chips, drawing his grimy hand across his forehead. “Don’t
you feel that way yourself, Dig?”
“Now you comes to mention it, matey, I am a bit that
way,” replied the son of the Sheffield porter.
“Good oh, then, Dig. What’s your name again?”
“Alf.”
“Right oh, Alf. Take a pull at this,” and the bottle
of champagne was duly presented to him. There was now
a twinkle in the eyes of Chips. “Have another,” he said
“What you took wouldn’t fill the eye of a mosquito.”
“Or a chat,” added the Tit. “Don’t trouble to say ‘when.’ ”
Alf had another and accepted the Tit’s invitation to
omit the “when.”
Soon the dourness of Alfred’s features gave way to a
contented smile, and quite a happy light shone from his
eyes. Then he became loquacious; after he had accepted
a third, and yet a fourth invitation, he became eloquent.
“How many miles an hour can an engine like this do —
in good hands, I mean: like yours?” Chips asked as he
THE PROBLEM.
THE MAN: “When was that portrait of
Charles the First painted, I wonder-
during his reign or afterwards?”
THE GIRL: “I wouldn’t be sure—but I don’t think it was done after he was beheaded.”
observed a reflection of the wine spreading over the
driver’s beaming countenance.
“How many miles an hour? That all depends on your
stoker. If your stoker can heave the coal in, you can get
the steam out of her all right. Too blinkin’ true you can!”
“You couldn’t get twenty-five, could you?” asked
Chips, at the same time giving the Tom Tit a side wink.
“Twenty-five? Ha, ha!” laughed the driver. “With
a good stoker, matey, I could get fifty, or even more. ' This
class of injin’s one of the powerfullest in England.” He
spoke enthusiastically and convincingly, as one well
acquainted with his subject.
Chips again became thirsty. So did the Tit, and so did
the ex-shunter from Sheffield.
The Scotch sergeant had told Chips that they were
about a hundred miles from Etaples; further, that the
Paris express left there at eight o’clock. It was now a little
after four.
“You reckon you can get fifty miles an hour out of this
old ’bus?” exclaimed Chips incredulously. “Well, looking at
it you wouldn’t think it possible, would you, Tit?”
“You don’t believe it?” retorted Alfred. “Strike me
’andsome! Don’t believe it, don’t you! I can’t get fifty
out of ’er? I can’t, can’t I? Well, you and your mate
do your Weedin' bit, and we’ll blinkin well see. Can’t — get
—fifty? Ha! Ha!”
“Excellent fellow,” murmured Chips, and together the
pair of them bent their backs and stoked as though the
winning of the war depended on it.
“Even if you did get fifty, I bet you couldn’t get
sixty,” wagered Chips.
“Can’t get sixty? I can’t, can’t I? Well, you lose
a bit more sweat shovellin’ and we’ll flamin’ well see.”
“Gawd!” whispered Chips; “there’s a drop of sweat
running down me back as big as a billiard ball.”
Iron thundered on iron. Metal rushed over metal. The
trucks rocked alarmingly. The guard anxiously peered out.
Chips and the Tit continued heaving coal into the
blazing furnace, and yet more speed was attained. Groan-
ing and exulting the steam rushed through pipes and
cylinders. The steam-gauge indicated a pressure previously
undreamed of. The huge wheels revolved at amazing
speed. Dense, thick black smoke and sparks poured from
the engine’s funnel, and hung over the countryside like a
smoke barrage. Telegraph poles were passed like fence-
posts. French women whose houses were adjacent to the
line rushed to their doors, raised startled eyes to Heaven.,
and exclaimed, “Oh, la, la!” as the huge engine and its
empty trucks raced along with the clangor of a tornado.
“Luck’s in, old sport,” shouted the driver, as they
approached a station. “The signals ain’t against us.”
“They won’t be, either,” chuckled Chips, “if old Jock
has done his bit and rung up the stations to give us a clear
burl.”
The train raced through the station, and the three gave
a cheer as they waved to the astonished stationmaster.
Saint Omer was reached, and, being a junction, stop-
ping was compulsory. An exasperating wait of several
minutes was occasioned, during which time Chips hastened
to the buvette, where he bought another bottle of wine in
order to maintain the high spirits of Alfred.
Soon they were out in the open country again, and
racing through the crisp, invigorating evening air. More
wine increased the driver’s speed ability, and they flung
along under a blue sky gilded by the rays of the setting
sun.
At last, in the distance, in a faint blur, appeared the
lights of Etaples.
“Quarter to eight,” shouted Chips. “We’ve got a
sporting chance,” and they stoked more furiously than
ever. With sporting acquiescence Alfred entered into the
race against time, and they approached the junction at a
terrific speed.
Entering the approaches to the Station yard, he
jambed the brakes hard on.
“She’s still in,” exclaimed Alfred. “As soon as I
nearly stop, jump and run. It’s your only chance.”
“Good oh,” replied Chips. “Take this,” and he handed
Alfred a twenty-franc note.
“Thanks, matey, Quick!” he cried. “She’s moving!’
Jumping from the still moving engine, they raced across
to the express, which was rapidly gaining momentum.
Chips, with his tall strides, was first to reach the rear
carriages, and, grabbing, caught hold of a door-handle on
one of the last compartments. The Tit was immediately
behind, and grabbed wildly at another handle, held on to it.
and, as the train gathered speed, swung himself on to the
footboard. He opened the door of the empty last com-
x x xl—
partment of the last
carriage, and together,
covered in coaldust, grimy,
dirty and perspiring, with
heated faces and eyes
flashing with the fever of
excitement, they tumbled
into the salon de luxe!
“If ever I’m as near
stopping a 5.9 as we were
to missing this train,
I’H”
Chips’s sentence was in-
terrupted by a highly ex-
cited and wildly gesticu-
lating French conductor,
who, after tossing his
hands to Heaven in pro-
test, whirled and revolved
his arms like a Flemish
windmill in the throes of
a hurricane.
“We don’t seem too
popular,” observed the
Tom Tit. .“You’d better
parlee and fix him. Tell
him we don’t compree
French semaphore signals.”
Chips “parked” with a
fifty-franc note which
appreciably curbed the
gentleman’s exasperation,
and ill-humor made way
for sympathetic cordiality.
In two minutes’ time he
had returned with hot
water and several inciden-
tals which tended to make
the journey to the French
capital as comfortable as
the French rolling-stock
would permit.
At Abbeville several
high-ranked officers joined
the train, now weL
crowded. They began to
object to the conductor
about being so cramped
when one compartment
contained two Australians
only.
The conductor explained that they were two special
secret-service men, disguised as soldiers, and that they
were not to be disturbed.
Arid they were not.
TREES.
Beautijul are trees
Arrayed in bridal blooms with trains oj choral bees.
I lie within their shade
And bless the happy birds that forage unafraid.
I hear a lullaby
Among the leaves when soft airs stroke them with
a sigh.
I let the sweet sounds throng
Through corridors that lead unto my court of Song.
I drink the gorgeous hues,
And saturate my thoughts with glorious reds and
blues.
Within me something stirs
Deeper than deepest thought, and seeks interpreters.
A swift power undefined
With flourishes of flame illuminates the mind,
Sets every nerve a-dance,
And springs the raptured soul to dazzling radiance.
I’m lifted as on wings,
And beauty burns within and like an angel sings!
I’m ravished and the whole
Display of light and sound is blended with my soul!
N.S.W.
ARTHUR ALBERT BAYLDON.


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
m
*3
*f r
It ;
Ui
HP
|WJ
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Tariff. Day- Week.
Single Room and Meals .. .. 25/- 168/-
Double Room and Meals .. .. 45/- 300/-
Single Room and Breakfast .. 15/- 100/-
Double Room and Breakfast .. 27/6 182/6
Telephone: F 4141.
£lO/10/-
DIAMONDS
at pre-tariff prices are
definitely good buying
Fairfax & Roberts offer, the finest
quality blue-white diamonds, , set
in every form of the world’s
latest jewellery creations. . These
diamonds were imported before
the tariff increases—and have
not been raised one penny in
price consequently they offer
exceptional value and are ex-
cellent buying.
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,’.
23-25 Hunjter Street.
=g=gj=sjj]
£l5/15/-
£3O
HOWARD HOTEL
LONDON
<•>»
fill
ELEGANCE AND LUXURY.
Every bedniom is fitted with hot and cold
water, central heating and telephone. Many
bedrooms with private bathrooms and elegant
suites. The Restaurant serves the finest of
foods and wines. The lounges are spacious
and luxurious. Bedrooms from 10/6.
Send for Illustrated Booklet to
“The Bulletin,” Sydney.
NORFOLK ST., STRAND
ABORIGINALITIES
“Avon”: One of the mysteries that puzzled
the first white settlers in Maoriland was the
origin of the multifarious dogs and pigs
cherished by the Maoris. The dog (“kuri”)
was not a vulpine or dingo-like type accord-
ing to the records of the pioneers, and there
is no fossil evidence that he was indigenous.
His forebears may have come in some of
the great canoes that sailed from Hawaiki,
but there is no record of it. As to the pigs
—which are just plain pigs—they may have
been introduced by Cook, that indefatigable
pig-planter, but there again history is hazy.
Whatever their origin, the Maori is deeply
attached to them —they swarm in almost
every pa—which, taken in conjunction with
the natives’ assiduous cultivation of the
kumara, a variety of potato, and their capa-
city for perpetrating bulls when they use the
adopted English tongue, suggests that the
Milesian and Maori strains may be branches
from a common parent stem.
* * . :|= *
“Westralian Abroad” : Jacky was a clever
tracker, and could sit any brumby. His fail-
ing was gin—out of a bottle. And get it
he would, if he had to .steal it. One day
he was brought before the R.M. on a charge
of creating a disturbance —lie had had a
public brawl with his lubra. “Liquor, I sup-
pose,” said the beak, knowing Jacky’s weak-
ness. “No fear. Boss,” exclaimed the bat-
tered Jacky. “She licked me !”
* * * *
“F.S.G.”: Should the Tassies decide to
introduce the musk-rat they will regret it. A
prolific breeder, the value of its fur-bearing
qualities is offset many
times by its depreda-
tions as a bur rower.
Its home originally was
Canada and Alaska, but
a few years ago a
couple of pairs were
liberated in Europe,
with disastrous results.
At the present time
Central Europe is being
over-run by the pest,
which is undermining
bridges, reservoirs,
buildings and railway
embankments. Belgium
is the latest field of
the rodent’s activities, and that country is
spending large sums in the vain endeavor to
check the invasion. Tasmanian climatic con-
ditions are eminently suited to the musk-
rat, and it will be a sorry day for the Speck
should he ever gain a footing there.
* * * *
“Georgina Washingday”: In matters of
coprtesy this generation has something to
learn from the old hands. Some time ago
all the men were in the yards drafting
cattle, the boss, a big, heavy man, standing
at the gate with a pole to block the cows and
let the steers through. Old Tom had come
up behind him unperceived when the boss,
stepping back suddenly to let a steer pass,
ground the heel of his boot right on to the
DIDN’T LIKE THE OPPOSITION.
“Well, Faather, how do ’ee like the talkies?”
“I dawn’t care for the ones to the back o’ we, Mawther.”
LOST AND PRO-FOUND.
SHICK: “Thash the lobshter , an’ thash me hat—but where dickensh am, If"
poor old chap’s foot —the one with the bad
corns! The boss, full of concern, turned
and apologised—he has corns himself, and
anyhow he would hate to hurt old Tom.
Though he was hopping on the sound foot
in agony, with contorted face and a voice
quivering with pain, Tom’s manners stoou
the test. “You are quite welcome, sir,”
he said. , .
* * * *
“Mako”: “Fernie” (B. 22/10/’3O) is
entirely out when he tacks his story of
Maori mothers of 400
years ago frightening
their children with
tales of a geyser on to
Waimangu. W a i-
mangu is a compara-
tively new feature ’ in
the thermal regions,,
and when it first
burst into action about
30 years ago the
Maori s. who had
avoided that locality
since the Tarawera
outburst of 1886. were
as much astounded as
anyone. The geyser
was first reported by
Dr. 11. Haines, of
Auckland, who with
his wife was travel-
ling in the deserted
vicinity and saw the
terrific volume of
water ascend sud-
denly into the sky, and
from that time Wai-
mangu, which means
“black water,” be-
came the chief asset of
the Tourist Depart-
ment. It played for
a few years, but the
guides prophesied
truly that when the
water fell in Tara-
wera Lake it would
subside. Next to the
lost terraces, Wai-
mangu was, in its
day, the finest tourist
attraction Maoriland
possessed. The small
geysers of Rotorua, 19
miles away, used to
respond to soap, but
all the soap in the
world would never stir a. V aimangu. Its
crater measurement runs into miles.
* =i= * *
“Dr. M'ivart”: The path of the Chinese in
these British realms is bestrewn with pitfalls.
Take the case of Ah Wong, who lias a shop,
and a little garden at the back, in Welling-
ton (M.L.). He owned two cats which he
greatly ' valued. But. when Wong planted
seeds in his little back garden the cats
scratched them out. Therefore Wong, fol-
lowing the custom of his native land, con
structed two small cases, 20in. by 15in. by
10in., and confined the cats therein during
the period of germination. The creatures
were given food and drink, for Wong held
them in esteem, but there came an inspector
of the S.P.C.A. who saw the cats in their
hutches and haled them forth. They bit and
scratched him with great ferocity. Wong was
brought, before a magistrate, who said that
the, 'importation of cruel customs from foreign
lands could not be permitted, and fined the
malefactor 80s. and costs, which is about
twice the “penalty a white citizen would pay
for 'blacking his wife’s eye. I am not in
favor of the imprisoning of cats, large or
small, and I wash these S.P.C.A. inspectors
would extend their activities' to zoos and
circuses. ■;; ■
;Js * * *
“Gouger”: I once watched a big crab
crawling over the rocks examining each
oyster individually.. There was a wealth of
expression in his horny back, bulging eyes
and ravenous visage as he peered and poked
and prodded ,at each close-shut shell. No
doubt the oysters could feel and hear those
rasping legs tapping their home. No doubt
they shivered. At last the ogre found a
shell upon s which he could obtain leverage.
He set to work energetically, straddling the
shell from the rear and with convulsive jerks
trying to lever open the lid; but the
oyster tightened like the Bank. of England.
The burglar changed liis tactics, working
his pointed pincers in under the lip of the
shell, then bending up, gradually crunching
off fragments of the corrugation at the
edges. It took him half an hour to grip
and break the tiniest space into the liP
of the shell. It was enough. There was
hungry triumph in his hump-backed body
as he backed his legs against the rock,
crouched down, inserted the points of his
claws at the broken edge of the shell and then
levered forward with all his might, one shoul-
der after the other. It was a great strain
on his legs and hrs eyes stuck out like door-
knobs. I don’t know if crabs sweat, but he
looked as if he were doing it. Very gradually,
with a pathetic grating, the shell opened,
ever wider, against those furiously thrusting
claws. A claw slipped in and the oyster
struggled no more. The crab devoured his
meal, licked his mouth with his whiskers,
regarded me with deep enmity and edged
away for something else to eat.
PIGWEED’S PHILOSOPHY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Them blinkin’ Bungs,” said Pigweed Joe,
“I see they’re grumbling that the shoe
Is pinchin’ of ’em just as hard as workin’
chaps like me and you.
They’ve pitched a hard-luck tale to Lang;
new hours of trade they’d have him fix;
They reckon that more beer they’ll draw
from nine-to-nine than six-to-six.
I ain’t so much concerned with that, but
what I reckon downright low
Is this here threat of shutting down on
counter-lunch,” said Pigweed Joe.
“In ev’ry land where freedom rules and men
are men,” said Joe, “I’ll say
One should be let to breast the bar an’ sink
a pot at break o’ day.
But some there ‘ are when work is done the
social glass would sooner drain.
Perhaps it’s time they had a turn ; we early
birds should not complain.
But whatsoever are the hours ’twould be a
mighty stingy bunch
Of Bonifaces that would grudge a cove his
bit of counter-luiieh.
“There’s lots of comfort in a beer,” said
Joe, “in country or in town,
And does it ever taste as good as when it’s
washing something down?
A slice or two o’ good corned beef, a trotter
juicy from the brine,
Perhaps a pickled onion, too, is all I ask
along with mine.
It paves the way for more shy poo, a thing
these Bungs would surely know
If they had any nous at all,” asseverated
Pigweed Joe.
“If I should ever keep a pub,” said Joe, “I
, wouldn’t be the man
To stint the chap who put away my beer
and grog a scrap o’ scran.
I’d loosen up for more, my son, than sausages
or bread an’ cheese;
I’d throw in herrings, salt as Lot’s old
Dutch, my oath ! an’ anchovies.
They’ll kill the goose that lays the golden
eggs, if counter-lunch should go.
High time they took a pull an’ gave their
brains a brush,” said Pigweed .Toe.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


PLAIN At A
PIKESTAFF
Vi
■/%
are the duplicates pro-
duced with a‘Mephisto’
Copying Pencil.
It lasts much longer
and writes much
smoother without
heavy pressure.
Medium, Hard and
Extra Hard Degrees.
H THE POPULAR
COPYING PENCILS
Also in 8 colours tor checking etc.
From all Stationers, etc.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH. of "KOH-I-NOOR" Pencil fame,
London Office— 2o. Kingswny, W.C.2
Austra'ian Representative -
JOHN MACDODGALL. P.O. Box 165, SYDNEY.
0
TecalemiT Ltd.
LUBRICATION EXPERTS
: I
MITRE HOUSE, SCRUBBS LANE,
WILLESDEN, LONDON, N.W. 10
LUBRICATION BY AUTOMATIC
HAND GUNS.
HIGH PRESSURES WITH CLEANLINESS
AND AUTOMATIC ACTION OPERATED
BY ONE HAND ONLY.
(Slide-on or Push-on Connectors.)
Atkins * (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street Perth
Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street Adelaide
Keep Bros. & Wood Pty., Ltd., Bateman Street .. Melbourne
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street Sydney
Martin, Wilson Bros., Ltd., 299 Adelaide Street .. Brisbane
Factory Representative:
Mr. James Thornell, 312 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“Barangkali”: According to “Main Stay”
(B. 19/11 :/’3O) the green flash emanates
from the just rising or just setting sun. If
this theory is correct the flash I wit-
nessed must have mixed the times horribly.
It was almost 2 a.m., and I was in charge of
a launch full of natives and had almost made
the barrier of Fanning Island. The nearly-full
moon lit up the distant island with a soft
light, smoothing all the harsh outlines into
a picture of enchanting beauty. There was
not a breath of wind, but miles up above our
heads the clouds were racing across the
TELLING HIM OFF.
“Becorse I didn’t go to the war, don’t you
think I’m frightened of a fight!”
“Oh, go away! You’ll do all your fightin’
from the two-bob seats at a boxin’
match.”
, \ ' A.:-. , ;
moon. Then it was that I suddenly real-
ised that a change had taken place. The
whole sky had become suffused with a green
glow, and for a second the island and every-
thing on it became flooded with an unearthly
green glow, which faded out as quickly as it
had appeared. The natives were terrified,
howling and rolling in fear at the bottom of
the boat, and imploring me to make haste
towards the lagoon, explaining that on pre-
vious occasions when the green flash had been
witnessed it had always been followed by a
tremendous storm. Coincidence, of course,
but before I had made the entrance to the
lagoon I was battling along against a 40-
mile gale, which had risen in less than 10
minutes after witnessing the flash.
* * * *
“Polycarp”: Queensland’s dugong is get-
ting as rare as the bunyip, thanks chiefly
to senseless and unsupervised killings by
Japs and others on the remote trepang fish-
ing grounds. The big sea-cow is sunposei
to be protected by law, but the reefs and
islands cannot be policed, and the dugong is
on the way to total extinction. Trepang
and pearl-fishers kill it for food alone, as the
dugong’s diet is wholly vegetarian and the
flesh good eating; but dugong oil is more
valuable than the flesh. I have seen a big
black “cow” measure over Bft. Herds graze
together on the submerged sea-grass, which
they find chiefly about river estuaries. The
animals are defenceless, and any “sport” whe
could get a willy-wagtail could get a dugong;
hence the rapid disappearance of this unique
Australian.
* * 1 ' • * *
“S.W.S.”: As boss of a wolfram camp
in Burma in 1916, my job was to plan the
work of the mine and to manage single-
handed over 100 Chinese of three different
dialects plus about 150 Indians
of all sorts, from Pathans and
Ghurkas to the timid Oriya.
Teaching Asiatics how to swing
pick and banjo and to wheel a
barrow was simple, though tir-
ing. It was after reaching my
bungalow in the evening that my
troubles began. Always the first
job was to doctor 10 to 20 sore
coolies. Then came the problems
of the day, which I had to settle
through interpreters for the good
order of the camp. For example,
an Oriya coolie who had left
camp for a short visit to the
jungle thought he saw a tiger
stalking him and died of fright.
Six Oriyas, all liars, claimed his
money. I said, “I will hand over
the money to the police.” As
I expected, the Oriyas reasoned,
“What the police grip they will
keep,” and gave me the address
of the deceased’s parents. Next
a Burmese sportsman had a figlit-
ing-cock which scrambled over
the food of a higli-caste Hindu,
and thereby offended his caste.
The Hindu killed the cock. Should
he pay compensation ? No. After
a couple of easy ones from my
Chinks I called up about 30
Ghurkas who were accompanied
by a Burmese woman. What
was the trouble with the Ghur-
kas? “Two troubles, Master.
First this man, Ainritsingli, at
the last killing of goats failed to
cut the goat’s head clean off at
one blow of his kukri. What
fine should he pay us for the
damage to our prestige?” A very
serious case; fined 30 rupees.
“The other trouble is marriage
trouble. Master. This> woman is
the wife of the Ghurka black-
smith, and she asks permission
to go back to her parents.” Why?
The interpreter’s telling of the
case made the most candid of
Biblical stories seem delicate
camouflage; but I’d met such
cases before and gave a judgment
that was received with cries of
“Boht Atcha, Sahib,” from the
Ghurkas, and a smile from the
lady. I was still blushing a little
when I got a message, “Please
come, Sahib, and time the
birth of a Ghurka baby. It
may be any minute, and the
father wants the exact time
for the horoscope.” So I clocked a sturdy
brown youngster into life’s handicap at 11.27
p.m. And so to bed.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: “Polycarp’s” historical refer-
ence to the dingo (B. 24/9/’3O) reminds me.
One of the first recorded allusions to
the gentleman who now helps to provide a
good many white and black northerners with
a decent living was when the boats of the
British frigate Pandora were trying to find
their way to Timor after the ship had struck
on the Great Barrier when carrying home-
wards the captured mutineers of the Bounty.
After leaving Mt. Adolphus Island they ran
across to what seems to have been Horn
Island, in Torres Strait, close to the main-
land of Cape York Peninsula (but which
Captain Edwards named Lafory’s Island).
Here they anchored for the night, and the
captain says “We saw several wolves near
the watering-place.” The surgeon (Hamil-
ton), in his diary, was more dramatic: “The
morning was ushered in with the howling of
wolves, who had smelt us in the night. .. .as
we approached the wild beasts retired and
filled the woods with their hideous growling.”
Evidently these were dingoes, although they
may have been dogs, which the natives
HEY, MON, AND DEAR THEN!
TONALD ( contemplating suicide): “What’s the smallest wee bit o' poison y’sell?”
THE CHEMIST: “Threepenn’orth—cyanide or strychnine?”
TONALD: “Hm! Er — er” —
THE CHEMIST: “What do you want it for?”
T ONALD: “Tuppence!”
kept in large numbers to give warning of
hostile visitors. A still earlier reference has
just come to light in De Prado’s “Relacron”
(the missing documents describing Torres’s
voyage through the strait), where he relates
that at one island where they anchored “all
night long the dogs were' howling,” which
filled the voyagers with terror. Next day,
however, they managed to capture a dog
and found its flesh “better than venison” to
eat! Whether the howling species was
related to the variety which figured on the
menu De Prado does not say—the latter may
have been wallabies, since at another .point
of the voyage, he describes a “small dog”
with a long pointed tail which did not
bark..
* * # *
“Cygnis Insignis”: The dissertation by
“Seven Hills” (B. 30/7/’3O) on Deem-
ing’s skull and backbone calls to mind
the adventures of ■ the gentleman when
his frame was clothed with flesh and
blood. In the eighties of last cen-
tury the owner of the brain-box and spinal
column managed the Eastleigh, one of a
group of mines at Klerksdorp, Transvaal.
In the early ’nineties, under an alias, he
was engineer at Fraser’s, Westralia. Old-
timers say he was a likeable chap.
Ilis friends at Fraser’s considered it
preposterous that the authorities should
connect the dapper and prepossessing, engi-
neer with the notorious wife murderer.
Deeming’s love of cement hearthstones ante-
dated liis known crimes. His home on a.
lonely stretch of veldt near the Vaal River
and his camp at Southern Cross both con-
tained unusually capacious hearthstones.
* :Jt ❖ ❖ H*
“Curly”: Bill Bullswool was travelling up
the coast on his annual visit of inspection
to a cattle station which he owned. in N.Q.
On the boat he entered into friendly argu-
ment with Father Mulcahy concerning
miracles, asserting that such were still to
be encountered. “I’ll prove it,” he argued.
“Up the coast here I own a bit of a cattle
station. I’ll be there three weeks, doing me
yearly inspection. When I get there I’ll
find the manager drunk. The head stock-
man will be blotto, an’ all hands more or
less blithered. During me three weeks I’ll
be drunk th’ whole time, an’ the blottos an’
th’ blithered will get more so.” “That’s not
miraculous, Mr. Bullswool,” snapped the
priest; “it is simply disgusting!” “But, ah,
Father,” concluded Bullswool, pounding
Mulcahy on the back, “that station pays,
an’ pays well! Now, if that ain’t a miracle,
just tell me what is?”
jjc * ❖ sis
“Slinga”: On the matter of acoustics (B.
19/11/’3O) let me quote an instance from
Townsville (N.Q.). Kissing Point Fort is
a small, isolated lump of granite about 50ft.
high with a syenite vein through it. A
thousand yards away or more stands Castle
Hill, some 800 ft. high. The land between
is a fiat saltpan, now covered with small cot-
tages. When I was there in 1900 there
was not a house on this flat, and a man
standing about half a mile away and
speaking just a little louder than an ordinary
conversational tone could be heard quite
clearly in the fort. 'There was a parapet
of earth and stone, some sft. or 6ft. high, at
the back of the fort, and the speaker was
about 46ft. above the saltpan. He could
not be heard in the officers’ quarters, which
were practically level with him and about
200 yards nearer than the listener in the
fort. This was a matter of military im-
portance, and it was checked very carefully
on at least a dozen occasions.
❖ * • *
“Fernie”: There’s nothing of the slouch
about tlenare when quick action and quick
thought are called for. At Okauwa (M.L.I
the other day a Maori was driving a car
on a road cut in a hillside when suddenly
his steering-gear locked and the car went
over the brink. The Maori leapt clear as it
hurtled over and landed in a creek at
the bottom. Scrambling out he found his
way blocked by the car, which had caught
fire and was blazing like Tophet. It looked
as if he would either be roasted or drowned,
but he caught sight of the outfall pipe of a
2ft. culvert, and went up this like a rat up
a pump. A party of motorists who had seen
the smash was grouped at a respectful
distance round the bonfire and speculating as
to what had happened to the driver when a
cheery hail came from up aloft, and Henare,
covered with silt and slime but perfectly
happy (the machine was insured), peered
down from the roadway.
*. l # * *
“Teasy”: A. variant of the English rail-
way ruling that a tortoise is an insect is
causing difficulty in parts of Vic. Some
Gippsland cockies: have taken to raising
Angora goats. Eor the purposes of the
Pounds Act these gentle creatures are classed
as pigs, and as such are liable to summary
destruction for trespass. To make it neces-
sary to impound the wayward ones a Bairns-
dale councillor at the municipal conference
moved that they be classed as sheep for the
purposes of the Act. The proposal was dis-
cussed in a spirit of levity, and few affirma-
tive votes were cast.
IN TH'E BRANDING YARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The fires are blazing by the rails,
The brands are glowing red,
Though dark are still the cattle trails
And stars are overhead;
And there’s a tumult in the yard,
A chorus in the pen,
For mustering days are long and hard
On cattle, steeds and men.
The calves are scruffed by nimble hands,
Amid the dust and din,
And with the reek of searing brands
The morning light creeps in;
And up and down, and to and fro,
They scruff and sit and kneel —
Three hundred nuggets strong to throw
Before the morning meal.
Swift to the uproar come the crows
To add their carrion cries;
Upon the caps they wait in rows
Until the firelight dies.
The clamor of a thousand dams,
Their night-long vigil o’er,
Is stilled as back the barrier slams,
And out the young ones pour.
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


ďsd
WHEN LIVING WAS CHEAP
VEARS ago, when living was cheap, many men assured them-
Y .elves for sum. that seemed adequate—then! To-day
those mms are quite insufficient. The cost of bring ha, doubled
itself. Amount, that would have your d £ pe J,,,,,,
S,”” you’dld ago. Increase your policy to meet the
new conditions of to-day and to-morrow.
producers t/citizens
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: &
x Stw lUnte: Famerff Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
i># * ° Agency Co., Ltd. r*~S
sd
YOU WANT TO "ENTER A PROFESSION?
We can set you on the Toad to better have^any 1 ability P are persevering,
which offers good opportunities if ha e y bf; f elsewhere . Write
diaries and fees to-day. Start your new
e'c BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Head Office,
Brisbane.
THE EQUITABLE LIFE
Assurance Company of Australasia, Ltd.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Office: 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Company issues 1^^ e g na ®^ Wl f c^ at o
Benefits \AH Sicknesses) and
Policies provide for payment; of Hospital P ation of
Siur s m on totarSbimi! Secie full particulars from
any of the Company’s offices.
p’Rir.nK. LEVY. Managing Director.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
IMPROVEMENT OF HILL PASTURES.
“Old Toolong”: In the great drought
which broke with the record rains of 1870
a big mob of plains sheep were agisted
among the hills behind our Upper Murray
place. Thirty years afterwards the sites of
their night camps were still noticeably more
luxuriant and more favored by stock than
the surrounding areas. So far as I am aware,
no consideration has ever been given to the
subject of pasture improvement by this
means. Indeed, most sheep-farmers would
be amused at the mere suggestion. Yet a
little consideration will show there are possi-
bilities in it.
Suppose one has a paddock of 640 acres,
one-half rich bottom-land and not-so-rich
lower slopes, with a carrying capacity of
three sheep to the acre; the other half
arid hilltops, with a capacity of one sheep to
three acres. It is a combination which may
be found through all mountainous districts.
Wherever sheep camp for a short time on
one of these hill areas the production of
herbage is enormously increased, especially
trefoils and local perennial grasses. But if
they continue to camp there (they always
w'ill, if allowed) the coarser kinds of herb-
age—thistles and devil-grass usually—take
possession, destroying the feeding value given
at first. The camps become useful only for
cattle in the winter shortage. In remote dis-
tricts such as mine, artificial manures,
between first cost and carriage, come to about
£lO per ton before they reach the grass;
yet increasing numbers of our shrewdest land-
owners are treating larger and ever larger
areas with these manures, in spite of fall-
ing prices for the produce. So, evidently, it
pays to lay out money in improving pastures.
Still, I believe that improvements of corres-
ponding value could be made in any hilly
areas giving on to richer bottom-lands by
means of the sheep’s invincible instinct for
camping on the highest spot it can reach.
Fencing is expensive and troublesome; but
where a man and a dog are on hand it is
practicable to shift the sheep away from
where they want to camp on to another loca-
tion. They can be easily persuaded so to shift
if the alternative camp offered is dry. And one
constantly sees places where by a cunning
use of existing fences sheep could be diverted
to new camps by merely shutting or opening
a gate,
S.A. experiments with grasses.
“Tumbe Munda” : I have several hundred
acres of limestone-rubble country in South
Aus., carrying capacity being a sheep to two
acres. With top-dressing the increase in
feed and stocking was hardly noticeable, so
1 decided to try seeding. Sub. clover was
not a success. Black medic evidently likes
the limestone, for it has taken well and is
giving an improved growth over the natural
pasture; but wherever there was a pocket
of loam over a clay subsoil the medic
dwindled away. I have top-dressed this plot
for two seasons now, but it has so far tailed
to show a profit.
Believing that I would have a bettci
chance of solving the problem with a grass
than with a legume, I decided to try 1 halans
bulbosa. I had noted the Waite Institutes
successful experiments with Phalanx in the
Encounter Bay district, and watched a
friend’s tests with this grass, on limestone
rubble. On my friend’s place it has been an
outstanding success. One eight-acre pad-
dock was sown with a mixture of grasses,
including rye grass, Yorkshire fog, Ken-
tucky blue grass and Phalanx, and this has
been grazed heavily. The Yorkshire .fog
and rye grass have disappeared; there is a
small patch of Kentucky blue grass; but
there is a dense sward of Phalans. It lias
been closely cropped in places, but where
a patch was protected it would be about
hi£'h.
Phalaris grows in early winter. In our
cold district I have know it to grow 6m.
in a week. The portion I have planted pro-
mises very well. The Waite Institute warns
intending growers to get a guarantee of
purity from their seed merchant; samples
tested have proved to be ordinary canary
grass.
TREATING FLYBLOWN SHEEP.
“I have just returned from a trip through
the south-west of Queensland as far as Dir-
ranbandi,” writes “Yarraman. The blow-
fly trouble is exceptionally bad in those parts.
I met a competent border sheepman who
has tried almost every, remedy that has come
on the market. He pins his faith to jetting
with a solution of arsenic, provided it is
done before the flies get busy. The arsenic
solution, he maintains, will not only prevent
the fly from striking, but will give immunity
for six to eight weeks. The mixture used
is 71b. of arsenic to 100 gallons of water;
31b. to 41b. of soda ash is necessary to dis-
solve this with 20 minutes’ boiling.
“The amount of jetting pressure required
is determined by the state of the wool and
the condition of the sheep. For sliort-
woolled sheep up to 701 b. pressure should
be sufficient; for half-woolled sheep, 1251 b.;
for full-woolled, from 1501 b. to 2001 b.
“Another very important factor is the use
of traps and baits. The cost is small, and
the result is well worth the trouble. It
owners in each district would unite and
carry this work out systematically, flics
would be minimised. Even if the pest
cannot be wiped out its numbers can be
controlled.” , . ,
The N.S.W. Department of Agriculture
confirms reports as to the fly being very
bad this season, “and as the _ summer
advances,” a departmental communique says,
“it is likely to be still more in evidence.
Crutching, trapping of flies, poisoning of
carcases and dressing of tty-struck sheep are
all measures which can be generally recom-
mended. So far as the sheep themselves are
concerned, the best work will be carried out
if close supervision is given to the animals,
and treatment of fly-struck sheep is under-
taken before much damage lias been done to
the skin. .
“A suitable dressing must, m addition to
killing or removing the maggots, do so with-
out injury to the sheep. It must be non-
irritating to the skin or wounds, and non-
injurious to the wool. It should liave a
tendency to dry up the moist portions to
which it is applied, but not to such an extent
as to cause cracking and thickening of the
skin. It should, if possible, act as a repel-
lent to flies, so as to prevent restnkmg.
Oily dressings have, naturally, a tendency to
remain longer on the sheep, but the majority
of oils have an irritating effect on the skin.
This is most marked with the mineral oils
and least marked with the animal oils, such
as fish oil and whale oil.
“A solution of 5 per cent, zinc sulphate
(51b. in 10 gallons) dissolved in water is
effective in driving out the maggots and has
a marked drying effect on wool, and at the
same time does not discolor the wool. It
lias very little repellent action, but owing
to the drying action on the skin and wool
it renders the sheep less attractive to the
fly.” The department has also a good word
for a mixture of fish oil with 4 per cent,
phenol. ... .. ,
“As a last resource, it says, where A
becomes a question of sacrificing a little
wool rather than losing the sheep, a 4 per
cent.' solution of copper sulphate, t.e., 41b.
to 10 gallons, will be found very efficacious
in driving out the maggots, drying up the
wounds and assisting healing; but it will
permanently stain the wool wetted by the
mixture, and should therefore be applied to
as small an area as possible.”
“The blowfly pest can be greatly reduced,
and abolished in time, by the use of glass
fly-traps,” writes “ Jerildene. S. E. Donelai:
and Sons, the Riverina stud-breeders, are
using a glass fly-trap and catching myriads
of flies daily, and the traps are always
working.”
GENETICS AND BETTER RETURNS.
“Atriplex”: It takes a good sheep to net
ss. worth of wool these days, and 10s is a
high return for a fat sheep. Markets are
glutted on sale days because graziers are com-
pelled to sell, no matter how low the price.
r.„ «B ar k.” (B. 22/10/’3O) then seriously
suggesting that we can afford to feed our
Sl ‘l do not agree that the richer the pasture
the better the wool, if by that he means finer.
Plenty of feed tends to produce a broad-fibred
wool, 'low-yielding because of much yolk and
generally with its quota of vegetable fault.
Buyers won’t pay for the last two items.
But it does seem that the general quality
of our clip needs bucking up. Here ou r Gov-
ernments could render assistance by institut-
ing extensive genetic research m this matter.
Smne great work has been done by investi-
gators in the science with regard to winter
laying in hens; and I feel confident that
therein lies the solution of the problem of
obtaining heavy cutters of high-yielding fine
wool. Under present methods of selection a
mob of these is hard to £et together unless
one can afford to dabble in studs.
IRRIGATION AREAS AND FAT LAMBS.
“J.W.W.”: After having grown lucerne
on the Murray for ten years to supply sheep-
men with fodder, or to rail it as lucerne
chaff to Melbourne for racehorses and poul-
try, I casually mentioned one day a desire
to graze the stuff off with lambs for export.
The shrewd heads of the district shook
ominously. “Don’t let go the substance for
the shadow,” they said; “the fat-lamb trade
is right enough as a last resort, but how can
we compete with Maoriland with its fine
pastures, rainfall and no irrigation charges
to pay?”
Admitting the advantages of good liberal
rains, I could not forget some of the sights
1 saw in Otago when on a visit there
years ago. At the end of a three days’
cold snap, with heavy rain, I saw prime fat
sheep and lambs thrown back to a condi-
tion no better than our forward stores.
Freezing winds drove sleet and rain through
to the skins of the poor bleaters till they
shivered in wretchedness. It proved to me
that all the advantages don't lie across the
Tasman Sea, and that we irrigationists
in the Murray and Murrumbidgee basins
have advantages Maoriland can never hope
to possess.
When you’ve got the water you can have
lucerne galore, rye grass and all the best
mixtures to make up a. balance of fodder,
and fatten lambs —thanks to our plenteous
warm sunshine and absence of sleet, . and
you won’t have them go back in condition
with a bump, as often happens in many
parts of New Zealand in spring.
New Zealand is a great country and its
farmers are in the first class; but we Aus-
tralian irrigationists have advantages they
can never attain. Now is the time to
exploit them to the full in pushing forward
£ll export lamb and beef trade, and, while
stiffening our own finances, help to restore
our nation’s trade balance.
CATTLE ON W.A. WHEAT FARMS.
“Wescocky”: The Westralian wheat-belt
is admirably situated for both dairy and beef
rattle, and it is a pity this fact is so imper-
fectly realised. Even where farmers go in for
cattle it is rare to find one with a valuable
bull. As a rule they depend on some
well-formed youngster for breeding pur-
poses, and after a season’s use he goes ott
to the abattoirs. So herds degenerate, and
complaints of cattle not paying are heard.
A fair-sized yard with a high, strongly-
built log-fence will keep the bull quiet until
spring is past ; then he can be allowed to
roam with the cows. When calving com-
mences he must be yarded until July, for
April and May calvings are the most profit-
able in the wheat-belt. This may seem a
lot of trouble, but it will vastly increase the
value of and the return from the herd, be-
sides saving the rabbit-proof fences.
Regarding the breed, a good dual-purpose
animal is best. I plump for the Red Poll,
hitherto rather neglected in Westralia, but
now becoming popular.
THE BABCOCK TEST.
“Noah Fraid” : The Babcock test must come
into more general use in Australia if out
dairy products are to survive world competi-
tion. Personal experiment and observation
mean, in most cases, quickened interest, and
quickened interest spells efficiency. The cost
of a four-bottle tester is about £3. feampiin,,
is all important. I find it best to mix wel
by pouring backwards and forwards. from
one vessel to another and then dipping
sample out. The milk should not be allowed
to stand over-long, but where this is unavoid-
able the mixing should be continued until
the operator is satisfied that the liquid «
homogeneous. It is in cases of long standing
that inaccuracies occur, or maybe an argu-
ment ensues between factory and producer.
Should it be inconvenient to apply the test
daily composite samples may be taken and
the lot tested at the week-end. To do this,
an aliquot amount of milk must be taken
daily; that is to say, one gallon one cup,
two gallons, two cups; and so on. After every
addition to the receptacle the milk should be
well mixed. If there is any separation of
fat at the end of the week, gently warm the
sample by placing it in water heated to 110
degrees F- and agitate. Keep the .bottle or
vessel containing the composite airtight in
the dark in a cool place and use ten drops of
formalin to the pint as a Fol
lowing are the progressive steps in the carry
ing ( the milk at a temperature of
50< (f)' 7 Q d ulk& fill the pipette to the mark
with milk.
/q\ Run into test-bottle.
(4) Have acid at same temperature as the
n ( 5) Fin acid measure to the mark with
ad ?R! Pour into test-bottle, having the bottle
at a flight angle so that the acid runs down
the neck to the bottom of the bottle, washing
the milk out of the neck in transit.
(7) Mix milk and acid by gently rotating
the bottle. _ . ,
(8) Let it stand for two to five minutes.
(9) Mix again. „ _ ...
(10) Whirl in machine for five minutes at
top speed. ,
(11) Add fairly hot water up to the neck
of the bottle and whirl for two minutes.
(12) Add hot water to the top-mark ot the
bottle and whirl again for one minute.
(13) Read result at a temperature oi
140 deg. F. Put in another way, the bottles
are immersed in a hot-water bath (T. 140 deg.
F.) for a few minutes prior to reading.
So much for the skeleton of the process,
now for the flesh and blood. Keep the
machine generally clean and the cogs well
greased, so that it runs smoothly. Use only
calibrated test-bottles, and for preference buy
those 0 to 10, although 0 to 8 will suffice for
most grade cows. The pipette is graduated
at 17.6c.c. because it will deliver 1 1 .44c.c. ot
milk, which will weigh, on the average, 18
grammes. The neck of the bottle is graduated
0-10 and the 10 divisions represent 2c.c ot
fat. As butter-fat has a sp. gr. of
the 2c.c. will weigh 1.8 grammes; in other
words, 10 per cent, of the milk taken, lhen
each division on the neck scale represents
one per cent, of fat and each subdivision
(there are five) will represent .2 per cent.
Always have the machine balanced; that is.
if one test only is to be made fill another
bottle with water and place it on the other
side of the machine. The acid dissolves the
curd If it is too weak not all the curd
dissolves; if too strong, some of the milk
solids become charred. Roth mean difficulty
in obtaining a correct result. Ihe correct
strength for the acid is a sp. gi. o
1.82. If weaker a little more acid should
be used and if too strong a little less. Use
rainwater for dilution and never fill the test-
bottle above the top mark. Watch lor black
particles in the neck of the test-bottle or a
dark appearance of the fat, due to (1) too
strong acid, (2) too much acid, (3) too high
a temperature, (4) allowing to stand too long
before mixing, (5) carelessness ifi Pouring
the acid into the milk m the test-bottle.
This difficulty may be overcome by using a
mixture of equal parts water and acid to fill
the bottle to the mark before the final whirl-
ing. Always pour the acid into water, not
water into acid —it is dangerous.
White particles of undissolved casein
(curd) or a cloudy appearance of the fat may
be due to (1) acid which is too weak, (2)
insufficient acid, (3) too low a temperature.
(4) incomplete mixing of milk and aud, oi
(5) insufficient speed of the machine. Usually
when the fat is not clear good results are
obtained by allowing the bottle to coo
sufficiently for the fat to become solid and
then reheating in water at 140 deg. I • pnoi
to reading, bubbles of gas are sometimes
annoying; they are due to the use of hard
water. When this is the only water avail-
able add a few drops of acid prior to use.
When in the tube counteract the bubbles
by adding a few drops of whisky or methy-
lated spirit, and read at once.
Read the top of the meniscus and hold the
test-bottle graduated scale level with the
eye Once I used calipers, but now I find it
a bother with no advantage.
“What shall I do with the refuse acid from
the test?” the novice may ask Obtain a
wooden vat, tub or barrel and place therein
all refuse small bones. Use the tub as a
receptacle for emptying the test-bottles on
completion of the test. When the tub is full
pour off the surplus liquid into a hole m the
-round, emptying out the bones and allow to
drv In this condition the bones are e ffoiva
lent to a strong nitro-super. and could be
used as such. If scrap-iron is placed m the
tub in lieu of bones the final product wou d
be sulphate of iron, another handy thiug
to have about the farm. In the latter
don’t smoke or light matches near, the tub
otherwise you might have an explosion.
PRICIvLY-PEAR FOR STOCK.
Is nrickly-pear worth a rush for stock?
There was great argument about it on
this Page last year. Perhaps with the
controversy in mind, Quern man d s Ir
pear Land Commission publishes the follow
ing in its report for 1929-oU.
“It can be stated definitely, as the result of
experiments conducted by the Department ot
Agriculture and Stock, that by
pear is not a fodder, being deficient m pro
tein As nearly 90 per cent, of its composi-
tion is water it certainly ha s * ts . uae ’ ™
of drought, in providing sufficient moisture
to keep stock alive when roughage,, m
shape of dry grass or edible shrubs, is aval -
able) 6 It is not highly palatable to stock, even
when the prickles have been singed off or
softened by chopping the pear, and is eaten
readily only when other green food munob
tainable. Animals fed on a diet of prickly
pear alone lose weight consistently, but with
small amounts of feeds supplying proteins
(Continued on page 29.)


© o o
1
o o o
□
o © o
o J 9
t-' " ' . J
ill®
esc


w.T.r
vS;!;::
«rl::
>ra?>& : ; ; : : : : : : :
SW::-:: : -S-* <
KH
mm
g
z
/
HARDYS
WINES
er
T INTAR A
3
eg
I
Sw
m
I
ia;
s®»
Ss
3?
£
WAV;’,
®SSB
L !
ww
£
WJ-
,
8
WCS
ttv
K
SI
S i'
’rasa
H
-=ss
S3'
©
W T
©
asss.
igpgi
'
-T-;V: ; ;V^
AW
§3S
!&■
slugs
saggE?/?^
s~r'
A
f(ia
mm mi 11
HARDY’S TINTARA WINES (Gold Label) are 70 years of age, of fine bouquet and maturity. Extracted from the
rich grapes of the chosen lands of South Australia, there is no better wine in the world s markets. When you call for
Hardy’s Champion Reserve Port you are sure of age, maturity, quality, and the price is within the reach of all and not more
than that of other wines.


'
v^ 1
For easy fit and
utmost lightness
Its pliant calf upper and elastic ankle
insets make this Abbey Riding Boot
the most comfortable of its kind. The
sole is of supple, tough leather, while
the upper is lined with soft leather
instead of canvas. Over the instep
arch it is curved to fit the foot with-
out any drag or strain. Inside, there
are no raised seams to cause chafing.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in all sizes. Specify
width and length, and order, also, a
tin of Abbey Preservative Polish
(6d.), or a compact cleaning outfit
(2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF .. 427-
BLACK BOX CALF .. 37/6
ABBEY
(Established over 80 years),
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY
Telegraphic Address: “Abbey Boots,” Sydney.
FPL 205
RAVOVAC
m
Ve
end
ble
'CP
SI
ectnc
Torek
y H^ ss
’ w all w
dan 9er i C ° Untr ie s u l
d *««Nes7? l 'ght 2
*>abl Ss T-'tgo -d„ y
»’** to' !7°*‘ bty-
»'thouf 0 r fer Offer !
... r, ° hght r d °rk
tricT orch R £ Y '° V 4C fi
b *am hthr ° Wsnu. Elec '
sternly, ° f Wh ite
* A Y- O i,
U 'YAq
Manufacturer’a Representative
W. C. SCHWAB
Bojc 1821, G.P.0.,
FRENCH BATTERY CO.
CHICAGO U.S.A. Y,
J A
£20,000 of real new money is paid
weekly to mine employees alone at
Broken Hill. -This new money is multi-
plied over and over as it circulates.
Get on to it and get your share, you
enterprising advertisers. Get on to it
through THE BARRIER MINER, the
great Western friehd to all advertisers.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
L t\C e
You owe it to yourself to collect the
interest that is your due.
Form chat most profitable of all habits—-
the bank habit —by making regular deposits
in the Primary Producers Bank, where
interest is paid on all monies.
, Have a Bank Account —Keep it
Growing.
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS BANK
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Head Office: 12 Martin Place, Svdney.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth and at London.
MARCH
FEBRUARY
JANUARY
Q
I
S
E
6ft. wide x Bft. drop
17/6
9ft. wide x Bft. drop
25/6
12ft. wide x Bft. drop
32/6
VERANDAH BLINDS
This Special Line of standard Blinds, made of English White or Green
or Brown blocked Striped, Duck, with fittings-— top batten, heavy
bottom roller, single and double pulley straps, cord and staples.
Note.—We cannot supply this line in other than those quoted above.
Prices for other sizes and materials on application.
■imms
o*4? BIGGEST HARDWARE-HOUSE IN VICTORIA
(D. & W. CHANDLER, LTD.),
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY, VICTORIA
added to the they not only hold their
own but even increase in weight.”
Respecting another school of pear-defen-
ders : \
Beekeepers hAve on occasion protested
against the activities of the commission in
destroying pear, alleging that honey of
special quality is obtained from the flowers
of the plant. Manifestly it would be absurd
tor the commission to take any action that
would result in the fertilisation of the
flowers and the eriinsequent production of
indefinite quantities of seed. All protests,
therefore, have been disregarded.”
—t
’WARE GRASSHOPPERS!
Swarms of wingless grasshoppers have
made their appearance in some N.S.W. dis-
xr I *?** r an il ot^er P arts of Australia. The
JN.S.VV . Department, of Agriculture warns
pastoralists and farmers to destroy them as/
they will become winged a\d lay eggs about
.<anuary, and from these eggs a second ahd
larger swarm will emerge.
1 lie young hoppers, the departmental/ento-
mologist reports, may be readily destroyed-by
a bait prepared by mixing lib. of Paris green
dry with 211 b. of bran, and then making into
a crumbly mask with three gallons of water in
which Sog. of. salt has been dissolved. Should
L aris green be unobtainable, Boz. or 9oz. of
white arsenic or arsenite of soda may be
substituted. If arsenite of soda is used it
should be dissolved in the water first. The
bait should be scattered lightly (not io lumps
or pellets) where a swarm f has appeared, on
grass land, on a roadside, of ■in a crop.
Applied, at the rate of about 201 b .: per acre,
there is no danger to, stock; the hoppers,
however, are poisoned within 48 hours.
Another method of control recommended by
the department for those who have a spray
pump or bucket pump is to spray the infested
area with a solution made by dissolving lib.
of arsenite of sodh in 16 gallons of water.
Ihe arsenite of ; soda. is first dissolved in
a gallon of hot water and the remaining 15
gallons added. The addition of 41b. of
molasses will make the bait more attractive.
The spray is applied where young grass-
hoppers are feeding; rate, about 80 gallons
per acre. The cost is less than 2s. 6d. per
acre, and there is no danger to stock.
A t ' *&>■
ANOTHER USE FOR SUGAR-BAGS.
“Brady’s Lookout”; When the bees are
swarming and you’ve got the job of boxing
them, put. your head in a sugar-bag.-- But
before doing so lay the bag flat and, five inches
from the bottom seam, mark out, at equal dis-
tance from the side seams,'a space Bin.x4in.,
the Bin. being across the bag and parallel'with
the bottom seam. Cut this out on both sides ,
then sew on the-outside wire gauze,(woven,
not perforated) over each 'opening; size of
gauze, l()in. by 7in. This gives a good. lap.
Now, with youi; hat on, put the bag over
your head andvtuck the open part well down
inside your coat. With this bag' and a pair
of long leather driving-gloves you can com-
fortably handle bees at any time. Sometimes
they don’t like a box, and will leave it for
parts unknown. If the box is first well
rubbed with black-currant leaves, they’-will
stay. I have never known bees “to ledve a
box so treated. The black currants will
grow from cuttings in a shady moist place.
, '••••'•' y*"” '-v
WHEN TO CUT BANANAS.
“Johnno” : Thousands of pounds are lost to
Australian banana-growers each year through
the fruit being cut at the wrong time. It is
easy to judge the right degree of development
for harvesting. The key to the secret is
the pistil or central spike of the banana
flower—the flower of the fruit itself, not the
flower of the fruit-bearing stem. Watch this
little spike. As -the banana develops it is
pushed outwards, until at complete develop-
ment it stands out beyond the rim of the tip
of the fruit, which, in the summer months
when the season lias ,been good and the
banana fills out properly, should be rounded
and full. In the winter, and when there
has not been much rain, the rounded tip is
not present, but the pistil or spike will be
pushed out beyond the edge of the rim all
the same, the withered flower sometimes still
adhering to the fruit.
A test of maturity that will meet the
requirements of long-distance senders is to
take a banana from one of the lower hands
of the bunch and break it ill two* If the
flesh is white the fruit is too green, but if
it has a yellowish tinge it-is-generally ready
for harvesting. In the winter months, how-
ever, and where the markets are within easy
reach, it will always be found a safe prac-
tice to allow, the fruit to hang until an. odd
banana or two show indications of coloring,
when the bunch should at, once be cut and
stored in a cool place until marketing day. tJ ilt
should never be attempted to market ripe* or
even partly ripe bananas in the bunch, how-
ever close to the market one maybe/' The
fruit should be cut from the stem in singles,
or in bunches of two and three, and care-
fully packed in a case. .
QUESTIONS ANSWERED. J;
(Transferred from Service Department.)
My hair is falling''out, *and An
some places leaving sores behind, We is
always scratching himself and rubbing
against things. How can' I cure him? —9/93.
Wash the dog with soap and warm water,
dry thoroughly, then rub into affected parts
a lotion composed of oil of eucalyptus loz.,
sulphur .loz., olive oil 6oz. Leave on for
three days, then wash off,, dry and re-apply.
Feed the dog on meat and milk; and give him
green vegetables and gravy—no bread, bis-
cuits or similar food. * 5
A shire council (AjS.TF.) has published
an advertisement stating that all gates on
public roads must be registered, one condition
of registration being that the ratepayer must
form the road 30 ft. each side of the gate at
his own expense. Can the shire legally en-
force this condition? —9B2B.
Yes. Ordinance 59 contains a clause to the
effect that the council can require the appli-
cant for a permit to erect a public gate to
construct “road approaches for not exceed-
ing 22 yards, from each side, of such width
as the council may require.”
I have three horses on agistment in my
paddock, They have been here for over two
years and nothing paid for them, I have
written several times to the owners but have
had no reply. Can I sell these horses to
defray expenses, or, if not, what have I to
do to get my money?— sl.
It lias been held that an agister of cattle
has no right or lien on the cattle agisted,
and probably the same applies to horses,
so that to sell them would be a dubious
course to take. Sue - the owner for the
money due."
I am a selector in Queensland, My prop-
erty is mortgaged to the hilt. (1) If I were
to inherit money could, the mortgagees de-
mand tt in payment of debt? (2) Can I
make them foreclose and retain my money?
(o) Must money lent on mortgage on a
property be recovered from that particular
property, or have the mortgagees a lien on
other assets of the borrower? —3B.
(1) No. (2) You cannot compel fore-
closure. (3) The money may be recovered
by sale of the property, usually provided for,
and if there is any deficiency the balance
may be..sued for, or the mortgagee may take
the property in satisfaction of the debt.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Gow Cocky”; I found it profitable to
feed wheat to pigs when the price was 4s. 6d.
a bushel, not 2s. 3d. or less. In N. S. Wales
this year, owing to rust in a number of dis-
tricts, there will be ,a large quantity of
wheat below f.a.q. standard alid consequently
available at a very, low price. Whoatgrower's
should be urged to feed the largest number
of pigs they can handle.
“Cullivel”: If running wire into a fence,
particularly old rusty wire, half-fill a jam-
tin with clean tallow or fat '(-no salt), or
even axlegrease, a hole being first punched
in the bottom. Thread wire through the
mouth of the tin against the first, post, and
pull. /The light greasing makes the running
much easier. When attaching strainer rub
greasy wire'with a clod before gripping.
“Manawatu”: Maoriland farmers firmly
believe in nieatmeal and iodide for stock.
Meatmeal is cheaper than almost any other
stock food, barring perhaps molasses. I
flavor even the new milk for the- only-just-
born with it, and results are- good. And
for all stock 2oz. of iodide (2s. 6d. an ounce
here) will provide for all the stock on a
60-acre'- milk emporium for at least 12
months. I have a treacle-tin (perforated)
suspended under the ball-valve, and just drop
a small lump of iodide into it every other
Sunday.
“Wrash”: Any green willow stick will
take root" in boggy ground.’ Try planting a
number of them; as they grow they will
dry up the area, and in a few years there
will be excellent shade for stock and<foddei.
trees in time of drought.
“L’Fou”; Why soak fire-kindlers made of
charcoal in kerosene? 'Waste oil from the
, motor is just as good and much cheaper.
“W. J.”: If string by the stinging-tree of
the coastal scrub country of N.Q. dip a rag
or brush in muriatic acid and rub it on the
part) The pain will disappear in a few
minutes.
“Bad Australian”: “Mulyan” is right in
saying that split posts, with rails mortised
in, should not be used in the construction
of,horse yards (B. 19/11/’3O), and that all
such enclosures should be built of round
timber; ■'butxthe yard should be round also.
It should be about 30ft. in diameter, with
posts Oft. Gin. x 12in. dia., sunk not less
thaiu2ft. 6in. in the ground. The rails should
be about lOin. x Sin., (“backed” off the out-
side of the log, and these should be fitted
and spiked, into slots on 'the inner side of
the post at an angle corresponding to , the
1 ctfrvature, and with the-rounded sides facing
inwards. This type of rail is recommended
because it requires , less cutting away in
fitting, is stronger weight for weight, and
makes a much closer fence than the round
rail. There should be four evenly-spaced
rails and a cap; the bottom rail about 12in.
from the ground and the top 6ft. A Gin.
sapling notched into the tops of the posts
and spiked down makes a good cap.
“W.D.Mc.”: There have been several pars
in the Land column about the bridle-
breaker, but what about the neddy who is
hard to catch,'• and a fair cow when you
"have caught him? A method handed down
by my . father, ' ’who.;, in the, /sixties was
manager..of. Mulwala station on the Murray,
may be recommended. Get two pieces of
stout bullock-hide and cut into V-shaped
pieces,. about 20 inches long and tapering
from 4 inches at one end to ahout 9 inches
at the other. Cut two holes in the narrow
end!', large enough to pass a hobble-strap
through, and’buckle each piece to the rogue’s
fore fetlocks. He can feed, in comfort, but
the moment h£ attempts to get away he
puts his hind feet- on the flaps i bf hide and
is anchored. Any horse broken- in with
these-flaps will never fattpmnt,to, get away
when-he sees.the bridle coming. 1 - -
“Go Do”: When the sweet-potato crop is
being- dug parent tubers should be selected
for .propagation purposes. Reserve plants
that produce six to eight medium-size tubers
rather than one or two very large unmarket-
able, roots. During: the winter make an ordi-
nary hotbed, place the selected tubers in a
layer of sand above heat, and wait until
shoots appear. The practice of planting a
piec.e of * the parent tuber with the sucker
has no If the rooted suckers
are planted when they have grown to about
6in. high best results wall be obtained. ;
“Bill'R.” :\Place seed, potatoes 3in. deep.
In good - average soil space them TBin. and
lay the rows 20in. apart. In poorer ground
make the spaces 20in., and leave a width of
2ft. between the rows. • " " |
“Zokimus”.,: I knew 'a husliwoman : who
kept- the family supplied with potatoes .with
next to no trouble. - She. always saved-the
bits of peel with eyes in, and these were
planted .at once in a small bed handy to
-the-waste water from..th.e wash-up dish. This
meant a rotation crop, and she dug them up
a plant at a time as required.
“Fred Rich”: On Warrengong station,
near Koorawatha (N.S.W.) ,r top-dressing of
pasture lands was commenced about nine
years ago. Now on 5000 acres-of top-dressed
land. 15.000 sheep and 100 head of cattle
are being carried, besides mamy horses! Last
year the wool clip from these sheep totalled
355 bales.


'f. >. "< i’■ *•
Sf»
m
♦yu
Kv T i
I
*
r-
last longer!
DO give miles more of care*
free service. Long life
means low tyre*costs, and stal*
wart construction means long
life. That is the plan to which
Dunlop Tyres are made. Dura-
bility is built into each detail
of them. Every cord of the
sturdy carcase is extra-strong —
for longer life. Every pound
of rubber in the deep-channel-
led tread is super-strong —for
longer life. Above all, the heat-
resisting formula under which
both tread and carcase are
manufactured is a tremendous
factor for longer life. Test these
tyres by actual use. Every
test will yield new proof
that Dunlops do last longer.
TYRES
7.FP.0


THE COOSE
BY HAROLD MERCER
ONE of the best things the Christmas
season brings is the Good Excuse.
Sandy Donovan took advantage of
it to post on his door a notice “Back in
10 Minutes” while he went around to the
Most Disreputable Club in Sydney, where
he was more likely to stay ten hours.
Three clients had called and waited, accept-
ing the door-sign in good faith, before, at
the Most Disreputable Club, the goose
intruded itself with the seventh drink.
Donovan, good chap that he was, hardly
understood that a goose came into the
story; what he did understand was that
something was going to be raffled for some
good cause. He understood, too, of course,
that the good cause was the same shabby
member who put the proposition; but,
seeing it was Christmas, he said “Sher’nly”
as well as he was able and put in his
money.
It was after he and his friends, having had
a game of dominoes, had returned to the
bar, where they were seeing who could lose
the most on the poker machine, that Dono-
van had the news broken to him that he
had won a goose. It was broken to him by
Darcy, the shabby raffle-promoter, in a
manner that was like an invitation to him-
self to drink with Donovan at Donovan’s
expense. Donovan, almost as if he was
delighted, issued the invitation. It was
Christmas.
As food, Donovan hated poultry of every
• ascription, goose being his particular aver-
sion. In a vague wav he remembered now
that geese had something to do with saving
Rome, and, with a recollection of the
horrors Latin used to give him as a school-
boy, he felt a greater antipathy to geese
than ever. It would have been far better
if Rome had not been saved. Still, he had
a look at his goose, dumped in the Corner
with its head poked Out of a slit in a bag.
It, cocked its eye at its new owner as he
approached, and then, stretching its neck,
hissed at him.
“Dam’ silly bird,” said Donovan. “It
hisses at the only man in the club who
THE BRAND OF ’E.
Did the pig they stole of ee, 'Siah, have any earmarks?”
“Iss, Cap’n Trevithick—the tail av un- was cut off.”
wouldn’t want to eat it. What do I wanna
goose for?”
“It’s only young. It’ll eat beautifully,”
said the raffle-man.
Something like a shudder struck Donovan
at the thought. “I don’t wanna eat it!” he
said. “As far as I’m concerned, you can
have the damn’ goose. Here—l’ll make
you a present of it.”
It was after about the twelfth drink,
when Donovan and his friends were playing
a friendly game of crib, that the goose made
a re-entiy.
“I put you into
the new raffle, Mr.
Donovan,” he heard
someone say, “and
you won it again!”
Donovan turned
with a cold eye
and saw the shabby
man beside him.
This raffle business
was being car-
ried too far. He
felt-although he did not say it—“respect-
able” having become a difficult word—that
he was a respectable business man; and he
objected to being made a target for the
sdver of raffle-investors who would be
prepared to eat a goose if they won it.
All ri’, I’ll beep it,” he said, shortly;
and the shabby man’s face fell as if some-
one in whom he had put all his trust had
been false.
111 keep it, if I have to eat it myself,”
said Donovan with sudden irascibility.
Nevertheless he handed his prize to the niost,
forgetful steward in sight, and proceeded
with Christmas.
It was this steward who chased him when
he left the club; and he was canying a
parcel which said “Yawuck! Yawuck!” at
intervals. Donovan, swaying a bit un-
steadily, found himself with a bag contain-
ing a goose in his hand.
“You were leaving it,” the steward panted.
“Your goose. See you to-morrow, Mr.
Donovan!” , , -
Donovan had not time to get over the
sodawater in his speech before, plainly
hopeful of the tip his thoughtfulness would
bring him in the morning, the steward was
gone.
He felt like a fool, standing there with
his goose in the bag. Only the certainty
that he would look more foolish if he tried
1o throw it away stayed a half-formed reso-
lution. Again, as he waited for a tram,
he had an idea of dumping his burden into
the street waste basket; but the curious
look which bystanders were sending his way
deterred him. His trouble almost sobered
him.
“Nice goose that,” remarked his neighbor
on the tram.
“Yes; would you mind if I gave it to
you?” Donovan answered eagerly, prepar-
ing to hand the bag -over.
The man got off the tram —hurriedly,
Donovan thought, wondering how mad he
must have. seemed, trying to give away a
goose like that.
. He put the abomination under the seat
and tried to forget it. He might have been
successful if the tramguard had not hauled
it out and pursued him with it after he had
alighted at the Central station.
Thoughts full of bitterness were Dono-
van’s as he neared his suburban station,
with the goose still on his mind if not
exactly on his hands. He, had dumped it
in the small baggage compartment at the
end of the old-fashioned carriage and found
a seat at the other extremity. The effort
to abandon the thing by leaving it on a
seat at the Central station had proved a
failure, owing to the shrill intervention of
other passengers. He had an uncomfortable
memory of having previously heard a voice
say: “The old pot looks shot. We’ll ’ave
ter see ’e doesn’t fergit that goose of ’is.
I alius believe in ’elping a bloke when ’e’s
potty.”
Donovan’s desire to get rid of the bird
before he reached home now amounted to
almost a passion; yet he felt he must be
careful not to reveal it—especially remem-
bering the curious behavior of the man
who had hurried off
the train.
He must try
strategy.
Not until the train
was about to move
off from his station
did he rise to his
feet, and jump off—
at the end remote
from that in which
the goose occasioU-
ally proclaimed its-
presence by a
“Yawuck! Yawuck!”
As the carriages be-
gan to move past
him, he congratu-
lated himself on his
escape.
A little too soon.
The air seemed to,
be suddenly full of
protesting goose as
his deserted luggage,
hurled from the
train, caught him full
in the ribs.
People rushed to
help him to his feet.
Their greatest
anxiety—a positive!.')
fiendish anxiety—
seemed to be to see
that he did not for-
get his luggage.
“Merry Christ-
mas!” cried each of
his helpers as, hav-
ing aided him
through the station
gate, they moved off
in different direc-
tions. Donovan felt
murder in his heart.
As he crossed the road, dawdling to allow
the other passengers to disperse, he noticed
a boy standing under the street light at
the corner of the road. The youngster
looked curiously at the bag he carried. The
goose, indignant at recent treatment, was
being particularly offensive.
“Son!” called Donovan, as he came near.
“How’d you like me to give you a
goose?”
The boy suddenly decided that there was
something wrong about Donovan. He edged
into the roadway, suspiciously.
“Don’t be scared of me, Sonny,” said
Donovan. “It’s Christmas. I wanna make
people presents.”
The boy made up his mind; he turned
tail and fled into the darkness.
Donovan could have wept. Why was
the world so full of cussedness? If he
really wanted that goose, there would be
thousands of people trying to steal it from
him.
An inspiration came to him as he passed
a fence. He knew there was a poultry-yard
on the other side. Looking carefully around
to see that he was unobserved, he lifted his
bundle above his head, resolved to push it
over the top of the fence. The goose
“yawucked” horribly.
There was a scrambling sound and a
man’s head and shoulders appeared over
the top.
“Here! What do you think you’re doing?
What’s that you’ve got?”
“It’s a goose,” Donovan explained. “And
I don’t want it.”
“What’s wrong with it?” demanded the
man on the fence.
“There’s nothing wrong with it! I won
it in a raffle.”
“Oh, a raffle!” sneered the man. “Of
course! Well, you take your blanky goose
away. I’ve got prize fowls here, an’ you’re
not going to throw any diseased poultry
amongst them.”
“Look,” explained Donovan, desperately.
“It’s a perfectly good goose. It’s young,
and it’ll eat beautifully. But I don’t
want”
“You’re either drunk or you’ve stolen
it and got cold feet. My advice to you is'
to get home—and take the goose with you.
If you hang about here I’ll put the hose
on you.”
The man disappeared. An idea that he
was getting the hose'ready caused Donovan
to move briskly.
The inhabitants of the bungalows seemed
to be all hosing their gardens or airing them-
selves on their verandahs. Donovan felt
somehow that he was an object of curiosity.
To abandon the burden here was obviously
impossible.
At the street corner a ragged individual
almost bumped into him. He apologised.
“Could y’ spare us a sixpence, Mister,”
said the ragged man. “I’m outer work an’
me wife-an’ ”■
A great hope dawned upon Donovan.
“Here’s a bob, my poor man,” he said.
“An’ look! I’lT go more than that. I’ll
make you a present of this goose.”
“Er —will you? ' What’s wrong with the
goose?” asked the man suspiciously.
“There’s nothing wrong with it.” Dono-
van felt that he could have roared the
words. “It’s a perfectly good goose. I
don’t want it, that’s all.” »
Donovan sensed that the man had a mis-
giving, even as he left the goose on his
hands and hurried home. He knew that
the stranger followed him, watching him
until he entered his home, evidently to give
himself reassurance about a queer trans-
action.
At home, however, Donovan was at ease.
Ho had got rid of his barnacle. There was
SOS
“’Scuse me, Constable, where am I?”
“On the corner of Pitt-street and Martin-place
“Never mind the detailsh. What town am I in?”
no wife present, to remark about his late-
ness and the smell of whisky he had brought
with him; she was going to take the
children, he remembered, to see the city
shops. He made himself comfoi’table on
the verandah; and, heavy with whisky, he
dozed.
“Yawuck! Yawuck! ” ■
Donovan woke with a start. It seemed
that he was haunted; geese had been in his
dreams.
There was a crunch on the gravelled path
as Donovan leaped to his feet.
“This man says,” began the police-
man
“Didn’t you give me the goose?” de-
manded the ragged man. “Didn’t you say
I could ’ave it?”
“That’s right, Constable,” said Donovan.
“I gave it to him. Y’see, I’ve been winning
geese all day in raffles, an’ I didn’t want it.”
“Well, that’s all right then,” said the
policeman, handing over the bag he carried.
“Here’s your goose.”
“I’m damned if I want the goose now. A
goose ain’t much use to me, an’ if a man
tries to sell it ’e’s liable to be accused of
stealin’ it, an’ run in. If somebody was to
give me a couple o’ bob, he could keep the
damned goose.”
Donovan broke into a perspiration.
“I’ll give you two bob—if you take it
away.” The man’s hesitation was putting
Donovan in a frenzy. “The constable
knows you didn’t steal the goose. You’ll
be all right.”
“You consider yourself luck}', and get
along,” said the policeman. He lingered as
the man shuffled away. Obviously he had
expectations of his own, the gent, being in
a giving mood; and the gent., cursing the
trouble the bird had cost him, but thank-
ful that it was now all over, gave him some
whisky and a few Christmas shillings for
himself. Then Donovan went to bed to for-
get a world over which geese were brooding
like a nightmare. Not even the late arrival
of his wife and family disturbed him.
“Yawuck! Yawuck!”
Donovan sat up suddenly in the dariiness,
and put on the electric light. Was he
dreaming?
“Yawuck—yawuck!”
His wife, disturbed by the light, moved.
“That’s the goose,” she said, sleepily
“What goose?”
“Coming away from the railway station
I met a poor man who was trying to sell a
goose. He seemed in need of money and
all he wanted was five shillings. ‘So I
bought it.”
Donovan turned out the light and sub-
sided amongst the bedclothes.


FORWARD
MR. FOTHERINCHAM!
By Frank Middlemiss
I BLAMED my performance of the pre-
vious evening. If I had not entertained
her complaints about the lawn, I pointed
out to Helen, I would not now have been
a pain-racked cripple. If I had put on a
dry undervest when advised, returned
Helen, she might have been devoting to
more interesting uses the price of the red
flannel for my back.
“I’ll carry the blind-cord, darling,” she
said, and her voice showed concern.
And the blind-cord I permitted her to
take, retaining thus just the mincer, the
frame for the lamp-shade, and the skewers;
and, lacking only the flannel, we proceeded,
as directed, to the left, through the arch,
to the stairway.
Through that multitudinousness that is
“The Plebeian” on a Friday night, pleasantly
inebriate with the vast plenitude of Things.
Through the ribbons, perfumery and laces,
past black-clad nymphs a-droop, Andro-
meda-like, beside their “Friday specials”;
past the sweets and soda-fountain, and the
cookery and vacuum-cleaner demonstra-
tions; past two pink corsletted torsos and
a sacrificial line in fleecy bloomers. Through
the crockery and glassware, down to the
ships’ chandlery and hardware, to the cata-
combic quietness of the manchester depart-
ment, where a person not unlike my Uncle
Henry Bascombe, the churchwarden, accom-
modated Helen with a tall cane-bottomed
chair.
We confided the matter of the flannel.
The man’s manner was courteous but
austere. He trained his tusks on the near-
by bays and counters:
“Serving, Mr. Simcock?”
Mr. Simcock, it seemed, was serving.
“Forward, Mr. Fotheringham, please!”
It was here that I let fall those words by
which Helen declared herself so embar-
rassed :
“So help me—little Featherguts himself!”
I do not defend myself for accosting Mr.
Fotheringham in this wise; for the use of
an appellation in the circumstances possibly
offensive; for a lapse into that rudeness,
alas! so common between comrades in arms.
Suddenly, somehow, as Mr. Simcock might
have unwound a length of sheeting, there
was unrolled a panorama: pictures of Mr.
Fotheringham misassembling his equip-
ment; struggling with stew down a troop-
ship gangway; baring a drumstick arm for
streptococci; searching his person beside an
Anzac dug-out; writing for Plumber Riley
to his girl (Plumber not having the gift of
tongues and finding all penmanship a );
just before zero, vomiting profusely;
departing, grey and groggy, for the beach,
and, three months later (“as game as a lion
and as thin as a tapeworm,” in the
colorful phrase of Sergeant Dwyer), coming
back for more. Little Fotheringham, “the
whitest little who ever slung a rifle,”
the most unpretentious soldier of them all!
“Well, well!” breathed Mr. Fothering-
ham, all flushed and of a quiver.
We shook hands with each other warmly,
and I presented him to Helen; and he ex-
pressed in his gentle way his pleasure, and
assured himself that his necktie had not
escaped the patent turquoise-studded knobs.
And we remarked on the fugitive habit of
the years, and those circumscriptions which
prevent fellow-citizens meeting, and re-
called one incident and another, including
such classic humors as that of Pullthrough
Truby and the bath-salts, until Mr. Fother-
ingham coughed.
“Well, no,” said Mr. Fotheringham, in
answer to my question; “things, in fact,
were somewhat difficult for a time. I can
speak, of course, only of the drapery, but
firms for the most part seemed rather
settled—it was something of a problem to
break in. I had ideas, you may remember,
of fruitgrowing or poultry, but J stuck to
the drapery.” And as an item of interest
to Helen: “Both I and Mrs. Fotheringham
always sleep on the verandah—one finds one
becomes accustomed to the I was
always very keen about the open.”
He took a lungful of miscellaneous ex-
halations; and, extracting our change from
the pneumatic conveyor, thanked us on
behalf of “The Plebeian” for our trade.
Now that I knew where he was, he said, he
hoped I would not quite forget him.
“He’s balder than you are!” observed
Helen, as we retraced our footsteps through
the hardware.
Each day, I told her. the troops grew
stiffer, stodgier and balder.
And in a corner of the ships’ chandlery,
where scarcely anyone could see her, Helen
reached and kissed me on the ear.
:S * *
I did not quite forget him, fcrnt it was not
at “The Plebeian” that I next met Mr.
Fotheringham. One of his objections to the
drapery was its sensitiveness to any hint of
trade depression, he explained when I
chanced on him at the Quay.
“But surely,” I suggested, “with so many
departments”
The fact of the matter was, Mr. Fother-
ingham confided, be had never quite hit it
with Mr. Spilson, the arbiter in these things.
One way and another, too, his time had
been broken a little lately, on account of
sickness. Such breaks were doubtless pro-
voking to a firm.
“Spilson?” I repeated. “Not the chap
who shows you to a chair?”
“No,” said Mr. Fotheringham; “that’s
Postlethwaite. He’s gone to the linoleums,
they tell me”—rather as one might say he
had gone to the Bahamas or Azores. Even
the cold Postlethwaite, then, was subject
to this Spilson! Of course—Spilson, who
presented the prizes at “The Plebeian’s”
annual picnic. A forceful factor in the
growth of “The Plebeian,” loyal throughout
all the 1914-18 defections: militant, almost,
in his passion for service, whose pronounce-
ments on the economic crisis of 1930 had
percolated freely to the press. -
One was naturally worried, Mr. Fothering-
ham pursued, billets being hard to come by:
but he wasn’t idle—he was travelling with
a wringer (which indeed he.had with him in
a natty little macintosh cover). He would
SHE DIDN’T WANT TO MARRY ONE OF THEM.
“But I wish he wouldn’t keep on telling me that I’m the first girl in his life.”
“Why, darling?”
“Well, you see, dear, the early bird catches a worm.”
accompany me if I was making for the
city—he wanted some sole leather and
sprigs.
So we proceeded accordingly, touching the
while bn the commercial outlook, the
growth of concrete building, the housing
question, the effect of the Bridge upon the
traffic problem (in all of which matters-Mr.
Fotheringham displayed a proper citizenly
interest); and, by routes I cannot now
remember, on the marvels of water divining
and the proneness of Mr. Postlethwaite to
sties. And I stole from time to time a
glance at my companion. Mrs. Fothering-
ham, it struck me, was the more finished
as a repairer. One hardly noticed the
lesions in his elbows and his cuffs.
As a matter of fact, said Mr. Fothering-
ham, pursuant to the question of housing,
they had moved from the place at Crow’s
Nest and taken portion of one nearer to
the wharf. There was no verandah, of
course, but he would doubtless be sleeping
better now that he was so much out of
doors. It was surprising the amount of
ground one covered with the wringer. But
there was nothing like walking. No exer-
cise, he had read, involved quite so many
muscles—not even swimming.
I could advance no opposition to this
dictum. It seemed to me that he was
thinner than when I had seen him last.
We had reached the point at which he was
to make his purchase, and we halted for a
moment on the kerb. From a neighboring
phonograph-shop came the notes of a ’cello
in Schubert’s “Schlummerlied.”
“More enemy stuff!” I commented. And
I recalled the time when cornflowers were
discovered to be subversive, and (thanks to
the spirit of such loyal citizens as my Uncle
Henry Bascombe) purveyors re-labelled
their bludwiirst and pork fritz.
He never looked at such things, said Mr.
Fotheringham, but what he thought of that
day we bought the trotters.
“And of old Aaronson?” I suggested.
“And his cornet!”
Good Lord, yes—old Aaronson and his
cornet! And Tillock and Tich Whatis-
name, the jockey, who passed out with
pneumonia at Zeitoun!
Well, no, said Mr. Fotheringham—he
couldn’t really say he ever wished that he
was back. Of course, one was glad that
one had gone, and the fellows were very
jolly, but there was much that was irksome
about military life. He hitched up his
wringer. “Perhaps I should have said
cramping. One missed one’s independence—
that feeling of being master of one’s affairs.”
I had pictured Mrs. Fotheringham one of
those aggressive women so frequently the
consorts of the mild. Suffice it to say that.,
meeting her with her husband some months
later in the Gardens, I found the portrait
faulty at all points. I was even less pre-
pared for the aspect of Mr. Fotheringham
himself, so frail he looked and shrunken.
A basket proclaimed that they were on
something in the nature of a picnic. Intro-
ductions completed/they made a place for
me on their rug.
Questioned concerning the wringers, Mr.
Fotheringham confessed that they were not
just as booming as one could have wished.
In fact, he was chiefly handling a line of
domestic - filters—you simply screwed them
on your tap. He was in touch, however,
with the agents of an improved type of
cleaner. There was nothing settled—unless
they were prepared to meet him in the
matter of commission he was certainly not
going to throw away his time. But he had
done with the drapery—there was nothing
like the open. Wild horses, said Mr. Foth-
eringham, wouldn’t drag him to “The
Plebeian.”
With such grandiloquence do small boys
sometimes touch one. A sudden excitement
had put points of scarlet in his cheeks.
“No, dear,” said Mrs. Fotheringham
gently. Then: “You’re warm enough,
Edward?”
And his hand, I noticed, lay as a child’s
might in her lap.
Presently we strolled a little, Mr. Fother-
ingham and I, and inspected the statuary
and the roses and the aviary and other
features that, with libraries, museums, shop
windows and other sources of contemplative
pleasure, serve to ameliorate the existence of
the poor. ' Daphne, we observed, is of the
order Thymelaceae. Near by the wishing-
tree a gentleman with persimmons was read-
ing “Mrs. Halliburton’s Troubles.” The
fir is a conifer, we learned, and of the coni-
fers there are a legion. By a system of root
pruning, I recalled to Mr. Fotheringham, the
Japanese commonly grow such things in
pots.
Some success, I gathered, had attended
Mrs. Fotheringham’s efforts with hydrangea
and aspidistras. She didn’t speak of it, of
course, said Mr. Fotheringham, but he was
afraid she missed her pot plants now that
they had taken a furnished room. A little
diffidently, I broached a question that had
more than once engaged me. It was good
of me, said Mr. Fotheringham, but there
was really no occasion. I would appreciate,
he knew, how much he valued the kindness
of the thought.
There was no hydrangea in the fernery,
nor did we come on any aspidistras, but
its cool greenery was grateful; and it was
pleasant, too, in the arbor adjacent, where
in algae-misted forests of myriophillum and
nitella moved tiny silver-bellied . fish. It
■was here that Mr. Fotheringham told me
of his dreamland—fruitful with passion
vines, and peopled with well-bred Orping-
tons or Langshans; and of the fortitude of
Mrs. Fotheringham in adversity and sick-
ness.... and of an operation affecting Mrs.
Fotheringham’s breast-....
' With the sweetness of freshly-barbered
lawns came the aroma of leaves burning.
And something that would one day touch
me and Helen, too, chilled me for a moment
with its nearness. . '
I bought some rock cakes at the kiosk,
and we.fed them,to the swans. We watched
the red-billed ducks about their toilet, and
with the aid of one George and his sister
Eileen, both perfect strangers, we built a
whole fleet of paper boats.
* * *
I saw Mr. Fotheringham only once again.
It was on a city-bound ferry, and the Feb-
ruary day was drawing 1 to .a close. To be
perfectly honest, he admitted, he had been
feeling somewhat seedy—he didn’t know
when he had had a cold hang on him for so
long. He was deriving much benefit, how-
ever, from the tonic he was taking; one
made it up oneself—a one and sixpenny
bottle was sufficient for a pint. , It was the
time of the year, he thought, when every-
body could do with a tonic and a change.
Was he contemplating a holiday, then, I
asked, and murmured something about the
mountains; though for Mr. Fotheringham,
something suddenly told me, the time for
tonics and changes was past.
Well, no, not a holiday exactly, he ex-
plained—they were to stay for a while with
his sister-in-law at Leichhardt. He was tak-
ing across some things—her plaques, lustres
and such-like, from which' Mrs. Fothering-
ham had not been able to bring herself to
part. Women were like that—one was like
it oneself, for that matter. If things were
only a little brighter with the cleaner!
We travelled a while in silence, except for
the tinkle of Mrs. Fotheringham’s lustres.
The sun lay like an orange on the horizon.
The gathering fabric of the Bridge thrust
blackly across the sky.
“They tell me,” said Mr. Fotheringham.
in his citizenly fashion, “it will use up fifty
thousand tons of steel. One can hardly
believe that you and I’ll be using it a year
hence.”
And in all truthfulness I told him one
hardly could.
“Time goes very quickly,” he observed
as we made our way through the turnstile.
“It doesn’t seem sixteen years since we
tramped down Macquarie-street to the
wharf.”
To make democracy and Mr. Spilson
safer, I reflected—each year, I am afraid,
the troops grow more cynical and sour. But
Mr. Fotheringham was holding out his hand.
His removal, he supposed, would reduce
the chances of our meeting. He was sorry.
He could manage quite easily to the tram.
But I waited and marked his progress—
a negligible figure with his salver and his
lustres and his plaques. I am full of fan-
cies, Helen says. It was fancy, of course,
that pictured him burdened again with a
bolt of doctor’s flannel, blood-red flannel
struggling with stew down a troopship
gangway, apd again with water along a
Gallipoii sap. Was it just the clangor of
the street —or fifes and bugles sounding:
were they shreds of sunset cloud—or pen-
nants flying?
Forward, Mr. Fotheringham.!
One thing I know I saw: a soldier making
west.


ill
HU
it*
o
m
J
Vi,
mm
:
SSI
I
;
v
C
m
m
m
i
r>
n
2
; i
I
m
■
■
MS
i
■
■
: H
SM
■
A
H
gMHg
MRN
W^MMlllUfliWil^lwi
■I
H
D&&:
-jj-; —— 13
>r
ft-
P3D
P
1
£
© Qi/t hosiery in boxes
of one and two pairs
hosiery for your
gift this Xmas..
• Prestige Hosiery takes pride of
place in the wardrobe of the fash'
ionable woman of to-day. So in
selecting Prestige Hosiery for your
gift this Christmas, you are assured
of it being a happy choice and one
that always finds ready apprecia-
tion.
No. 400. Medium wei
throughout, with lace clox.
fashioned. Per pair
ght, Pure Silk
Fully 25/6
No. 401. Similar to No. 400, without
lace clox. Fully fashioned. Per pair 7,716
No. 600 Service Sheer. All Silk, Fully
fashioned. Per pair . . , 17/6
No. FFI Service weight, Pure Silk.
Fully fashioned. Per pair . •••• 16/11
In all the latest ‘Parisian Shades
TO THE MENFOLK
You will gain confidence in the fadt
that Prestige Hosiery will make the
ideal gift for her. The fine textures
of intriguing beauty and lovely
tonings of this modern hosiery is
demanded by the woman of dis-
criminating taste who is also- alive
to the subtleties of this season’s
frocking mode.
HOSIERY
fully fas h ion e d
AN
prestige
AUSTRALIAN CREATION


1931.
Resolve to open a Savings Bank account! Save a little each week
or each month and employ the Commonwealth Savings Bank as your
safe and patient assistant.
The man with a Savings Account is not only happier, for the possession
of some ready-money resources—he is stimulated to increase these
resources, to his ultimate great benefit.
If you do not open a general Savings Account, at least start a Purpose
Account —one in which you save for a specific purpose during a definite
period of time. Provide by easy degrees for a'payment at a selected
date or for the discharge of a future obligation.
A New Year approaches. You can make it one of progress and
satisfaction.
iHbinmonwcaltl) Savings Bank of Australia
(,Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government .)
•
New Zealand^
Greatest Delicacy’-
—and fast becoming Australia’s. Tiny inch-long fisb,
unique in flavour, whitebait is found only in sparkling
New ZealancX streams, then for but three months of the
year.
You, however, can have it the year round, with all its
original freshness and flavour, for it is, canned on the
banks of the rivers the same day as it is caught.
Try it. St. George Canned Whitebait will give you a
new meaning for the word “delicious.”
IRVINE AND STEVENSON'S
ST. GEORGE COMPANY, Ltd
Dunedin New Zealand
ST* GEORGE Delicacies
1
Ik
&
SMOKE-OH!
IF.
(Dana;)ague’s Version.) '■
If you can shut your eyes while those above
you v
Are shutting theirs, and blaming it on
banks;
If you can credit politicians lope you,
Or mean one word of their effusive thanks,
And think the Treasury in half a minute
Can be made solvent just by printing notes,
Yours is Australia, and the people .in ' it —
Six million mugs! And most of them with
votes! \ ,<
if if
“Mr. R. H. Johnstone will lecture on ‘Swelled
Head in Rams.’ ” —Wireless item.
In view of the slump in wool prices one
wonders what the blazes gives it to ’em.
* #
“Through the whole story this droll fellow wanders,
relieving the sombreness.”— “S. M. . Herald” book
review.
A case of the wag dogging the tale.
* *
“I could never get money from him, even when
drunk.” —Melbourne wife.
His frugal instincts never slept. \
Howe’er bemused his senses
By liquor were, he always kept
A tight hand on expenses.
*{•
ON THE TRAIL OF A MYSTERY.
“The detectives believe they have established the
identity of the man who committed the crime.
Although the man has not been seen since .Monday
afternoon, the detectives believe that he is probably
hiding in Melbourne.” —Melbourne “Argils.”
“It may be now definitely stated that the detec-
tives are not seeking any particular man whom they
NOT FORGOTTEN.
GERTIE (meeting her girlhood chum after many years): “And have you quite forgotten
your:old misfortune?”
MYRTIE: “Goodness, that reminds me. He told me to be sure to get him some
summer underwear to-day.”
know. It is incorrect j that the suspect was seen last
Monday afternoon.” —Melbourne f’Herald.”
Some supplementary pars, not yet pub-
lished by the “Argus” or “Herald”
We understand that a man named Muddson, formerly
employed as a treacle-weaver by Uppe and Attem
Pty., Ltd., and addicted to pony-racing, is the
man the detectives are seeking. He was dismissed
from his situation subsequent to the theft from the
firm’s office safe of a-sum of money amounting to
£BO 45., and - threatened to bring an action for
defamation of . character. Damages were laid at
£5OOO. We learn that Muddson is still in.Toorak,
but to divulge his exact whereabouts may impede
the success of the man-hunt.. He is not a member
of the Melbourne Club, as stated by a contemporary ;
It appears that it was not £BO 45., but £4O
Bs., that was stolen from Uppe and Attem Pty., Ltd.,
and the firm has not dismissed Muddson. Muddson
has decided not to prosecute his action against Uppe
and Attem. He has been paid a substantial amount
by Uppe and Attem as compensation, and made a
synodsman of St. Weevil’s Church.
It is correct to state that Uppe and Attem’s safe
was not robbed by Eustace Muddson, the well-known
racehorse owner. A fellow-employee named Pyantha
had, it appears, been recently fined for failing to
renew his wireless license, and this, coupled with the
arrest for alleged drunkenness of a taxi-driver named
Marshall Field, is no doubt the foundation of the
charge referred to against Mr. Muddson. It would
be interesting, however, to be informed as to what
became of the £BO 4s. or £4O Bs. (as the case
may be) concerning which we were the first to give
information to the public.
It may be now definitely stated that Pyantha’s
offence was not failure to renew his wireless license,
and that his correct name is Jugford. He is said to
have owned an unlicensed dog which ran away from
him last Monday afternoon and has not been seen
since. This information was given to our special
representative this morning by a tram-conductor who
had it from a passenger who had just previously
alighted in company with a lady who lived next door
to a greengrocer whose sister is engaged to be married
to a policeman, so that its. accuracy may be im-
plicitly relied on. \
Success has not yet met l the endeavors of the
detectives to arrest the tram-conductor, whose appear-
ance-answers to the description of *a man who once
picked up a knife in a public dining-room and
seemed disposed to do something with it. Shortly
afterwards he disappeared from., the dining-room and
was not seen there again until the next day. Will
the detectives succeed in arresting this man? We.
shall see. There is every reason for optimism.
Startling developments may be expected by to-morrow.
The tram-conductor to whom reference was made
in these columns 3'esterday was not a tram-conductor
but a postman. The similarity of uniform is the
foundation for the statement previously published.
We were the first to publish it. Now we are the
first to deny it. “First always” is our slogan.
Upson Downes.
if if
Before he gets his glasses on
His antics make you grin;
But they’re nothing to his goings-on
When he gets his glasses in !
if if'
THE FIRST CRICKET MATCH
(20,000 8.c.).
Pigsear, skipper of the home team, tossed
the boulder. “Wet,” called Pieface, the
Stony Hollow captain. “Wet” it was, and
the visitors elected to club.
Hogstooth opened with a .
chunk of granite to Pieface.
The first over —six wides —
resulted in the death of two
spectators, and the stunning
of a brontosaurus. The next
trundler, Cowsfeet, was more
accurate, and twice nearly hit
the tree-trunk, which young
Ironbelly, the Bradman of the
period, was defending. The
champion broke his club next
hit, and while the twelfth man
w r as bringing a new one Cows-
feet suddenly heaved a rock
at Pieface. who promptly re-
tired dead, the Hill shouting
its joy as the stretcher-bearers
bore his corpse to the Mem-
bers’ Cave.
The score mounted steadily
until at 14 Ratshair was
given first use of the new
stone. The pitch now re-
sembled an abattoir, and Rats-
hair found a spot—a pool of
blood.
At the luncheon adjourn-
ment the casualties numbered
17 players and 349 spectators,
so .survivors were assured of
a hearty meal. The menu in-
cluded brontosaurus soup and
grilled dinosaur wing with
umpire sauce.
The committee received a
protest against a certain
member of the Stony Hollow
team,, who, it; was alleged, had
sold his autograph to a firm
of clubmakers, thus forfeiting
his amateur status. Protest
dismissed on the ground that
everybody was doing it.
The resumption was delayed
to give the official scorer a
chance. The scoring had been
so fast that he had worn out
all his chisels.
The batsmen now found it
easy to score, there being
many; gaps in the field. A
tribe of cannibals in the 35.-
stand had picked out robust
players here and there. Fur-
ther, the spectators were holding a catapult
competition with the fieldsmen as targets.
When the tea interval came the survivors
could be counted on the claws of one paw.
A stray megalosaurus looked in at this
stage, made a meal of the remaining players,
spectators and officials, and then lay down
on the pitch for a rest.
Match drawn.
Cedilla.
* *
THE CONSTANT MISSUS.
My wife isn’t bad as wives go.
She’s made of fair average stuff.
The reason my spirits are low
Is, she doesn’t go often enough.
•¥*
SPORTING NOTE.
The world’s record for judicial asininity
was lowered last week by Justice Burgles-
brigge, of the Divorce jurisdiction.
During the hearing of Scissors v. Scissors
his Honor interrupted the husband’s evidence
with the question, “What is a cami-knicker?”
“From Mr. Lamb’s flat the) thief took two suits
of clothes and other .articles.”—' “Sun.”
All the police have to do now is find a
wolf in Lamb’s clothing.
Unemployment doesn’t worry those who
are accustomed to shirk for a living.
*f if
“Steelworkers toiled all day yesterday finishing a
mooring mast for dirigibles on top of the Empire
State Building, 1284 feet above Fifth-avenue. This is
higher than workmen have ever reared a building
before.” —New York cable.
Queer how all these tall storeys start in
the U.S.A.
if if
TOWARDS THE MILLENNIUM.
By these presents be it known that 1.
Angus O’Cohen, having not a feather to fly
with, have joined the left wing of the Labor
party.
Further be it known that, as from Decem-
ber 1, I shall pay all accounts in promis-
sory notes redeemable at 12 months.
NO DOUBT ABOUT THAT.
“Billy, I don’t believe you were home by midnight
really!”
“My oath, I was—very reely!”
Creditors who desire to participate in
O’Cohen’s Great Christmas P.-N. Consulta-
tion should send in their claims immediately.
Drawing will take place under the personal
supervision of the Hon. J. Badly, Minister
of Labor and Industry, who hopes to gain
, valuable experience for the N.SvW. State
Lottery, which must not be confused with
the. O’Cohen Consultation.
Creditors who do not get a place in the
Christmas draw will, if their claims amount
to 10s. or over, receive a splendid art cal-
endar, depicting (in three fast colors) Mr.
Frank Anstey’s Trades Hall Gallery master-
piece, “The Landlord’s Farewell to His
Deeds.”
N.B. —Until further notice all writs, gar
nishee orders, caveats, summonses, injunc-
tions, ne exeats, final notices and threaten-
ing letters will be received at the trades
men’s entrance only, on Tuesdays and Fri-
days. Bailiffs will be required to make their
own arrangements regarding bedding ana
food. Hot water will not be supplied.
(Signed) Angus O’Cohen.
* *
“I would borrow lavishly, however high the
interest, and spend the money on the poor.” Frank
Anstey.
This is known amongst economists as
High Finanstey.
¥
“One of the most efficient organisers of benefit
functions is, in ordinary life, a railway porter.”
— “Sun.”
Porters usually know how to get things
in train.
# *
THE INTOLERABLE PROSPECT.
(By Our Man About Town.)
Eric Burghley-Talbot (pronounced Mur-
phy), who has been attending vice-regal func-
tions for 27 years, gave me an odd reason
at a Billions Club luncheon yesterday for
wishing to go to Hell. “In the other place,
he said, “I’d have to watch him” (indicat-
ing an Empire-building churchman at the
high table) “laughing at some celestial Gov-
ernor’s jokes through all eternity with the
object of wangling an archangellmod.”
THE URBAN OSTRICH.
Explorers do not often flush
A dinkum ostrich in the bush.
A man who wired the “News” or “Sun”
That he had had a shot at one
Would in right-thinking minds incur
Suspicions of his character.
In town, however, you can strike
An ostrich any time you like.
All offices and clubs provide
A patch of desert sand inside,
Wherein directors of concerns
May hide their heads —though not their
sterns.
Here, in security sublime,
They spend long periods of time;
While at a horrifying rate
Their country rushes on its fate.


&
f
3f
s
uZ
$
O
cigarettes
w*x
frt
jrf
■
K#
Hi®
ra»
?
<fuif(^res
fi
#
r*c T
►/PQr vt>
tvC»^
(#|
m
ardath
CCO CO. Lt» :' l
PTgit
iHP
F>
r”
m
53
Mi
iwS
iii
■
IPiiliM
* ' v '' -
r
af
tr
:•$
'>?
jr
SW
iM:M
!&*!&&&&&
03#
SS
•:•:•!
•:;::x>;
¥ :
m
SSSSSSSS:
PSSX
Msi
■
Mis:
*s
:-;.i : : T.
SHI
«i:iP i?
mi
■
m
.
or
CICARtmi
m
NO THROAT HARM
A MILLION
~7
CONSISTENT MAINTENANCE
OF PERFECT QUALITY
ACCOUNTS FOR THE
WORLD WIDE POPULARITY
OF THE CIGARETTE
IN THE
SCARLET & GOLD
PACKET


THE BRIDGE
BY ALYS BR-OWN
SEEN from the river,
Moinu village is no
more than a brown
scar marring the smooth
face of the grey rock-wall
rising sheer and grim behind the dark-green tops of man-
grove and nipa.
Two hours of sweat and slip and oozy wading along
a tortuous path of rotting logs and snarling roots through
the dark and silent mazes of the swamp, and Moinu
appears again, a cluster of shaggy, stilt-legged huts
huddled within a sapling stockade on a broad ledge far
up the cliffside, like a flock of frightened birds penned
against the massive r'ock-wall, now showing a time-
worn face, wrinkled to a myriad cracks and folds, and
pitted with the dark mouths of many caves.
A humpy hog’s-back of limestone boulders, thrown
together by some earth-convulsion in a far-past age,
bridges the deep chasm between swamp and cliff with
steeply-ascending steps, until, within a spear’s throw
of the scarp, the stairway ends in a sheer drop. Here,
Man, taking upon himself to complete the work of Nature,
has spanned the gap, bringing with infinite labor from the
distant forest a single log of dimiko, prodigious in length
and girth, yet for all its colossal size but a puny finish to
that giant’s causeway of stone.
This log, the sole entrance to the village, is Moinu’s
chief defence against invasion. The shuffle of many gen-
erations of bare feet has rubbed the once-rough trunk to
a dangerous, glass}' polish; and, at the warning cry of the
watcher guarding the stockade gateway, a hundred slit-
eyed loopholes are manned, and a storm of arrows rake
the slippery crossing, sending invaders slithering headlong
to death in the chasm below. There, on a vast heap of
village garbage—the kitchen midden of Moinu—their
bodies lie mouldering
along with the sun-
bleached skeletons of
Moinu’s unwanted—
the old and feeble,
the blind and maimed,
led to this bridge by
impatient, food-grudg-
ing relatives, to take
their last few, falter-
ing steps along its
treacherous span.
None who fall ever
return from the Hill
of Skulls betieath, foi
the sides of the gorge
are too steep for even
ghosts to scale, so
Moinu folk sleep un-
disturbed by the wan-
dering spirits of either
friends or foes who
have found a last
resting-place on the
’slopes of that grisly
mound.
Each dawn, while the
mists still lie white
and thick, filling the
bottom of the gorge
with a lake of foam,
the stockade gate is
flung open, and sleep-
drunk, yawning
women shuffle out and
cross the bridge in
single file. Calling to
lagging children, they
trudge off to the scat-
tered gardens they
laboriously till in the
shallow soil of the
limestone downs.
Hunting parties of
young bucks make
light of the perilous
crossing as they saun- .
ter gai'y off in search of the game hiding in the sparse scruo
and tall spear-grass of the higher hills, and fisheimen, cane-
traps balanced on their greasy, mud-matted polls, stroll
carelessly across and down to the alligator-infested river, or
go squelching amongst the mangroves, combing the swamp
for giant frogs and slimy, jellied slugs, lizards, tree-rats
and snakes—anything to give flavor to the meagre diet
of roots provided by the womenfolk.
With many a fearful glance around for enemy war-
riors that lurk in hiding, they seek for food throughout
the long, hot day, until the sun begins to dip westward
behind the fretted pinnacles of their rocky home, when
they straggle back, still casting uneasy looks behind, until,
with sighs of relief, the Bridge of Safety is crossed and the
gate is closed. Then burdens are flung down, and the
happy evening hours begin. Lazy plumes of smoke arise
and swirl in misty wreaths, turning from dun to gold as
the sky flames in the glory of sunset. Men relax grim
faces as they sit smoking and yarning, waiting for supper.
Children play and quarrel happily, their shouts rousing
lean curs and scurvy pigs to a frenzy of yapping and
grunting as they slink hungrily round the fires, skirmishing
for a chance to snatch a titbit at the risk of a burnt nose
or a kick in their gaunt ribs.
One evening during the season of the lahara, amidst
the usual flurry and turmoil of cooking—heat and smoke
stench of singeing fur and feather, appetising odor of
broiling fish and baking yams—one bent old woman was
tending a tiny fire on which the sticks had been laid
with a niggardly hand.
Her shaven head, where a sprouting crop of bristles
showed white on the dirt-grimed brown scalp nodded
incessantly, and her rheumy eyes dripped with the stmg
of the acrid smoke as she turned the green node of bamboo,
in which a handful of prawns was seething, to catch the
wind-blown flames, or carefully raked together the glowing
ashes as they dropped from the blazing brands, heaping
them over a couple of yams.
As she pottered about she champed her toothless
jaws restlessly, glancing now and then from the corners
of her cleep-set eyes, covertly watching her neighbor Ilae,
a noisy, cheerful woman with a fat, big-eyed baby astridt.
her hip and a horde of naked children scrambling hungrily
round her. , , , „ ~
Hae had been turning out her bark bag, and, finding
a few shreds of tobacco-leaf at the bottom, shouted to
one of the children to fetch the bau-bau. The old dame,
raking together another ash-fall, furtively watched the
rolling of the tobacco in a piece of napera-leaf, her loose
mouth slavering as she saw the bamboo pipe lit and
passed round her neighbor’s family circle.
Dithering with impatience, she waited until little Aku,
laying aside his toy bow and arrow, had run to inhale his
share of the precious smoke. As the child handed the
pipe back to his mother, the old woman hobbled over
with eager, shaking hands outstretched.
“Hast a draw left to stay an old neighbor’s empty belly,
O Hae?” she begged. “Not a whiff have I had this day.
What plenty thou must have to smoke before the meal!”
“Nay,” bawled Hae cheerfully, upending the pipe.
“See! The bau-bau is empty. ’Twas but the least scrap
of dust from the bottom of my bag, and there’s naught
left but the smell, Waria.”
The eager look in the old dame’s eyes faded, and
she drew away with a sigh of disappointment, Hae calling
after her, “Thou hast leaves hanging within. Why not
satisfy thy desire? I could do with another draw myself.
These yams are but half-baked and hunger gnaws at my
craw like a karai at a cocoanUt.”
Deaf to her neighbor’s broad hint, Waria bent over
her fire once more, moving the bamboo of prawns into
the glowing heart of the flames. She hesitated for a while;
then, with the air of one who can no longer resist temp-
tation, she turned, and, in spite of creaking joints, scrambled
with the agility of a spider up the notched log which
served as steps and disappeared into the darkness of her
hut.
THE BRUTE.
“I think we ought to take back a little present to mum. What do you think?’
“How about a fair-sized pot of ‘vanishing’ cream?”
fc
r SSZ - *. «* vahdy
bn- ?S of dtsmay when at last she
£ hnnch of tobacco leaves had gone!
Whimpering she dropped to he? knees., grovelling
P h pa i m p l an king of the floor, feeling amongst
w a , he g g Jj? the hearth, groping with trembling fingers
• , „ tbat the leaves had fallen. When certain
, Va^ n^°P e m ™ d , she jerked the cord from the rafter
hurried out wailing and waving the smoke-dried string
and n ,
‘ “Mv tobacco! My tobacco!” she cried. “A thief hath
visited my hut and taken every leaf! Not one is left!”
mteaw a bemoaning her loss, she hobbled from fire
Women looking up from their cooking, mur-
men s t an w a t the frantic old crone
, , thehaze’of smoke shrugged their shoulders, spat
through the haze s ™ e ’ th S ” U^ ssip Eager for excite-
Children followed wide-eyed, though shrinking
m , scared each time she‘stopped to appeal to
back a.littlegeared spring where a finch of
vlU agera to look attne jmpty st g
fine IT TSJTtDmwL’, mite Where is he
A ie f^herl ° T^ice already j iat h m y tobacco
who 10>3 _ T have said but little»”
been stolen, men
A lou . SS houge Twice before in that
bung g: thro ugh the village disturbing the
cmmTlaints of stolen tobacco, and.
evening peace t identity of the thief they
having a shrewd idea of the identity y
made mock now h • f The tearg which had
bhe whirled on tn m 1 Crinkled cheeks still lay
streamed down her seamed and wrmkled stilway
wet on her flat an oa i . ear-lobes bobbed and
hoMnth hex Redded ear lobeS g
“Ye laueh at an old woman’s troubles, ye young wheips!
ye who know who hath
stolen my tobacco. Twice have I suffered in silence. This
time the thief shall suffer, too. ’ . . ,
Raising her skinny arms to the towering peaks above,
in a voice thick and hoarse with anger, she croaked
“Kovave, thou god oj the hills, in whose deaths our
dead abide, hear and help Waria, the widow oj Him who
served thee. Punish this thief who hath stolen her tobacco,
the solace of her old age. Punish him for one who is too
old to strike a blow for herself. , .
“Harihu, thou god of air, send lightning to blast Hu
eyes, and let thy thunder split his ears; capsize his canoe,
and send an alligator to seize him that his bones may not
rest with his fathers in the Caves, of the. Dea , e a
tree fall upon him as he passeth in the jungle, sen a
snake to bite his heel that he may die in tormen .
“Hiovaki, thou god of war, set an ambush in Ins pat i
that his head may hang on a stranger s smoke-rack,. and
his flesh be eaten by outland warriors. Let him be stricken
with a sickness from which he cannot die; let Ins bones
soften and his teeth fall out and his mouth be full o,
rottenness, that his tongue may nevermore savor tobacco.
May his wife be unfaithful, and, his children grow up
thievish as their father. May his fish-traps be empty
and his crops smitten with blight, that he and his may
die miserably of hunger and none give food. ....
She paused to take breath into her laboring lungs, for
her voice had dwindled to a harsh whisker. 1 lie villag »,
stricken to a dazed silence, were staring in awe when the
palm-leaf curtains of the men’s house were thrust aside
with a gusty swish, and a young man, darting out, leaped
down from the platform. Rushing across, he grasped the
old woman roughly by the arm hissing furiously, Stop
thv parrot chatter. Hast grown childish m thine old age,
putting the curse on a man for a few paltry tobacco
leaV At' his words a babble of voices arose; tongues loosed
in a spate of indignant protest at the old womans cursing,
and the villagers
watched with approval
as her son hustled her
back to her fire and
flung her down, manv
nodding agreement
when he snarled, “Thy
ranting will take thee
to the Bridge to drop
thy bones on the Hili
of Skulls.”
The fury in her
died, and grovelling at
his feet she whined:
“Nay, Son; put me
not. away. I am not
yet old enough for
that! I who have
many good seasons
before me. Who would
dig thy garden, cook
thy food, thou with-
out wife nor yet the
promise of one? Not
the Hill for the
mother who bore thee,
not for many a moon
yet! My anger was
against- him who
robbed thee. Six
leaves had I cured.
Five good ones for
thee and the damaged
one for me. All gone!
All gone! Aie! Aie! ’
With an oath, Igela
pushed her aside, and
snatching the bamboo
of prawns from the
embers, he kicked a
baked yam from its
bed of feathery-whit
ash and strode off to
eat his supper in the
men’s house, leaving
his old mother to salt
hers with her tears,
ASSIST*. * S 3 £3£
thethief and the result of «* „« curse .H upon
h.m of , gorcerer , wise .
acres shook their heads ominously; others treated the
curse as an old dotard’s vaporings, agreeing that it was
time she took the path to the Bridge, with Igela to give
her the slight impetus needed for her descent to the Hill
below, before she called down the wrath of the gods upon
the whole village with her mad curses,
“Igela won’t do that. Not so long as she can give the
lazy i ou t a yam for his supper and a relish with it,” said
Hae, cracking a scarlet crab-shell and popping bits of the
white meat into her baby’s mouth, open like a young
bird’s beak to receive it.
“And grow tobacco for him to steal,” knowingly added
a friend who had run across from a near-by fire to beg
the loan of a fish-hook for the morrow. “Who else would
take the old woman’s store, I ask thee?”
She bent over confidently, whispering in Hae’s ear.
“My nose tells me that the widow Turu hath tobacco the
while she watcheth under Dobu’s body. Now, who giveth
tobacco & wi(Jow but one who aims to He on the dead
man’s mat? I ask thee that, Hae?”
Hae clicked her tongue significantly. “Oh ko! What
shame to enjoy tobacco whilst her man still lies naked to
the gtarg . gut Turn was ever a wanton. Without doubt
that is where Waria’s tobacco hath gone; but Id as lief
scratch my back with a firestick as say a word to the
old dame against that good-for-nothing son of hers.
Her friend turned over the quid of betel-nut m her
mouth and chewed thoughtfully; then, after remarking,
“Maybe Waria’s curse will come to roost on her own roof-
peak. Thieves build snares to trap themselves, give them
enough „ ghe went back to her own hut.
Hae yawned widely and called her brood together,
bones ache with over
much digging. Thou, Aku, toss these crabshells on the Hill.
and forget not to ash patdon of the dead for dtsturbn*


their slumbers. Tono, carry the bau-bau to the old
woman. She grieves within, and there is still a whiff or
two left to comfort her. Hush thee, my babe; the Watcher
at the Gate will see that no hunter crosses the Bridge to
steal thy drowsy head. Sleep, little grub, sleep. Honest
folk need fear no curses.”
Night swooped down on Moinu, a silvery night with
the moon unclouded; with warm air and fireflies every-
where, sparkling in and out of the scraggy chilli bushes
and arnatto shrubs that had found a footing in rubble
heaps near the huts.
Waria, her tobacco-hunger unsatisfied by the few whiffs
of smoke left in Hae’s bau-bau, could not sleep. Long into
the night she sat brooding morosely on her hut platform,
looking down on the Bridge, which shone like a bar of
silver in the bright moonlight. There was devouring hate
in her breast for the thief who had stolen her only joy
in life—hate mingled with terror at the thought of her
son’s threat that she should tread that shining span for
the last time. Though life held but little joy, she clung
tenaciously to it, looking with dread along that loneliest
of all roads, the road to Death.
Bats from the Caves of the Dead in the high cliff
above swooped low around the hut, filling the tender
night with a thousand airy, flickering shadows to which
Waria gave no heed until, with the soft swish of leathery
wings on the lazy night wind, there came a hint of smoth-
ered laughter, and her keen nose suddenly scented the
fragrance of tobacco smoke.
For a while she sat listening, her nostrils twitching
hungrily; then, chuckling to herself, she slid to the ground
and padded softly away amongst the shadows, hoping to
surprise a pair of lovers enjoying a stolen hour, who would
invite her to join them in their smoke.
Skirting the quiet huts, she neared the centre of the
village, where, in an open space, stood the high scaffold
on which the bodies of Moinu warriors were laid before
being taken to the Caves of the Dead. Since the moon
was young, the body of Dobu had rested there, Dobu
having been killed by the tushes of an angry old boar.
The kites had long since finished their ghoulish feast,
and the ants their scavenging, so that now clean-picked
bones showed white in the moonlight through the cere-
cloths of dry leaves.
Beneath this bier Dobu’s widow dwelt, shrouded in
closely-woven palm-leaf mats, and, according to tribal
custom, there she must remain in strict seclusion, deprived
of all but the barest necessities of life, until her husband’s
bones were removed to the Caves of the Dead.
It was toward this spot that Waria was led by her
nose, and as she gained the shadow of the nearest hut she
heard again that muffled laughter. Peering out, she started
back in scandalised horror, for she had glimpsed the dark
figure of a man leaning against one of the scaffold poles,
whilst the widow Turu, squatting at his feet, was consoling
herself with a bau-bau held to her mouth.
Turu had thrown aside the mats of mourning and
her clay-daubed skin gleamed ghostlike in the moon’s
clear rays. Waria could see her beady black eyes spark-
ling as she glanced up at the lounging man, and sent a
wreath of smoke-rings through her nose.
“Almost am I afraid to smoke tobacco loaded with
a curse,” she was saying with a titter.
“Bah! The old fool cursed a thief, and as it is no
theft to take one’s own the curse was but empty words,”
the man replied. “She shall tread air over the bridge as
soon as I have found out where she hath hidden her
ginauri. There’s a fine store of mairis and toias, and
many a fathom of dogs’ teeth, beside the price for thee,
my Turu. Thou shalt be loaded to the ground at thy
wedding feast. I have already spoken to Tio. He said
it was unseemly to ask for thee before thy husband’s
bones are safe in the Caves and his spirit appeased, but
I pressed him, and had his promise this very night.”
“Remember, I will not share the hut with Waria,”
said Turu. “No hut is big enough to hold a son’s mother
and his wife.”
“I tell thee she shall go over the Bridge and take her
curses to the Hill of Skulls,” he replied. “Now, give me
the bau-bau. I must get back lest I be missed.”
The listener in the shadow shrank back further into
the gloom as Igela’s face showed for a split second in
the moonlight before he vanished into the night.
Every word had been a dart dipped in poison, wound-
ing Waria to the quick. Slithering silently away from
the open, moonlit spaces, and creeping along in the
shadows, she regained her hut, her mind racing hither and
thither like a hunted creature searching for safety.
Bitterly she thought of the son for whom she had
spent herself. She had always known he was lazy, for
since his father’s death three seasons ago he had opened
yp no new ground, so that the yams grown again and again
in the same soil were poor and diseased, though she had
spent toilsome hours gathering wallaby dung to enrich
it. She knew he was greedy, too, always taking more than
even a man’s share of food and tobacco.
She had had the bride-pay ready for him for many
a year, but since he had come to manhood maids had
been scarce and the ornaments still lay hidden along with
a small store of wealth put by to purchase food and
tobacco from the younger women when crossing the bridge
became too risky for her shaky legs. Now Igela would
take it all to deck a shameless wanton who could smoke
whilst her husband’s bones still lay above her.
The mother’s anger swiftly turned from her son to Turu.
“The hussy hath bewitched him,” she said, ever ready
to excuse him. “Turu hath tempted him to rob me of
my tobacco to buy her favors, and when Dobu’s bones
are in the Caves I must go over the Bridge to make room
for her—l who have starved that my son might feed in
plenty.”
Anger stirred her sluggish blood until it ran like fire
through her veins, rousing her to fury against the woman
who, having deprived her of her tobacco, would now rob
her of her son—aye, even of life itself.
Mumbling and muttering, she clambered into the hut
and lay on her sleeping-mat, her brain active with plots
and plans to rescue her boy from the clutches of the
woman who had enslaved him.
Not for nothing had she lain beside the Maker of
Dark Laughter—the sorcerer of Moinu. The gates of
memory opened wide, and the old wizard’s tricks came
pouring through—poison herbs and snake venom; ancient
recipes for charms and death potions; age-old incantations
for black magic.
Calmly she reviewed each one in turn, to reject it for
another and yet another, until at last her harsh chuckle
broke the thick silence of the hut, and with a satisfied
smile twitching at the corners of her sagging mouth she
fell asleep.
At dawn she hurried out again to the bier, and found
Dobu’s brother, Tio, gazing earnestly up at the bleaching
bones.
Tio had loved his brother with more than a passing
love, and had spent many sleepless night hours thinking
of this man or that who might have harbored a grudge
against Dobu and made magic, sending death in the shape
of a boar to slay him. Each morning he visited the bier,
tormented by a thirst for vengeance upon that man, and
longing for the time to come when he might learn his
name.
From beneath the frayed cover of her mats, the
widow Turu watched the pair with shrew’d black eyes,
smiling to herself when Waria, pointing a skinny finger
upward, croaked, “Soon the time will come, O Tio! Soon
thou wilt take thy brother’s bones to the Caves and com-
mune with his spirit, and hear the name of the one who
slew him.”
• lio gritted his blackened teeth and clenched his
gnarled fists. “Aye, Waria,” he growled. “May it be
soon!”
Even as he spoke, the playful morning breeze, tugging
at the fluttering dry leaves aloft, unlapped rhem. and,
rolling Dobu’s skull over and over, dropped it with a
crash at Tio’s feet.
The time had come!
Turu tossed off the matting, joy in her heart at her
release, and, raising her shrill voice in a fine passion of
sorrow, wailed forth the Dirge of the Dead. Waria’s
cracked pipe joined in the mournful lament. Women came
flocking from the huts, and the old widow and the young
led them in the Dance of Death, whilst Tio climbed the
scaffolding and gathered the clean-picked bones into a mat.
All that day Moinu village indulged in the luxury of
the second mourning, until the spear-thrusts of the sun,
breaking crimson on the pinnacles above, warned Tio of
his coming ordeal. Already he had seen to his weapons—
his claw-tipped spear, his bone dagger and his man-catcher:
the terrible six-foot bamboo haft ending in a spearpoint
A GIN AND GINGER.
within a loop of cane, a weapon to reach out over a fleeing
man’s head and circle his neck, jerking his spine against
the savage point.
Armed with these, and with Dobu’s skull balanced on
top of the grisly bundle of bones, Tio set off up the cliff
path to the Caves of the Dead, where, since the beginning
of Time, the warriors of Moinu had found sepulchre.
Up the steep and crumbling path he bore his burden,
followed by a quavering lament from the women below.
As he climbed, a hawk winged from her nest in a wind-
carved niche and flew . screaming about his head, scaring
the green lizards who scurried into sheltering crevices.
Once, five feet of scaly evil raised a spade-shaped head
with a sinister hiss, ere it slithered from his path and
became merged in the grey debris.
Reaching the low, arched opening of the Caves, Tio
laid his weapons aside and entered, bending almost double
to avoid the sharp-pointed fingers of stone depending from
the roof, and stumbling as he went against the bristling
stone-spears that rose from the floor.
Threading his way between thin-wasted grey columns,
where the stony points from roof and floor had met and
united in rigid embrace, he reached a table of stone and
laid the mat of bones upon it, topped with Dobu’s grinning
skull.
After the light and heat of the sun-baked path the
Caves were dark and coolly damp, but filled with the
stench of mouldering bones and the musky smell of the
droppings from countless bats that were new streaming
out on their nightly forays and filling the Caves with
such awful whispering echoes that the blood froze in
Tio’s veins, and his teeth chattered. All through the
day of mourning, thoughts of bloody revenge for his
brother’s death had made him strong; now he shivered
with an ague of fear as he crouched in the dank darkness
and awaited the coming of the uneasy spirit of his dead
brother.
Meanwhile, in the village below, folks ceased mourn-
ing, and, gathering in groups, speculated anxiously as to
what name would be whispered into Tio’s ear, turning
the matter over until dusk groped into the village and
sent them shivering to troubled slumbers.
Old Waria waited until all was still, and only the
wind moaning across the mouths of the Caves broke the
silence of the night. Then she stealthily crept up the
path along which Tio had gone a few hours before, and,
passing beyond the entrance to the Caves, came to a
crevice, into which she slid, snakelike, wriggling on her
belly until she reached the whispering-post -which her
wily old husband had often used.
Tio, his every sense alert, heard her rustling progress.
“ ’Tis the spirits of the dead awakening,” he thought,
shivering with dread. And he pleaded in a quavering
voice:—
“0 spirit of Dobu, ’tis thy brother Tio who hath
brought thy bones to lie with the fathers of our tribe! Mine
ear is open to thy voice. Tell me, I pray thee, the name
of thy slayer, that I may take his life and free thee from
the torment of unrest.”
There was the rustling of harsh wings as a belated
bat flew in haste out into the night, then a silence in
which Tio could hear his own laboring heart. But no
voice from the spirit world answered his plea.
Hour after hour he waited, listening to the eerie
drip, drip of lime-laden water, now dozing, to dream of
those dead warriors whose bones lay in heaps around,
awakening with terrified starts, to doze and dream again.
So the dreadful night wore on, until, grey light show-
ing wanly at the mouth of the Caves, the bats came winging
home to sleep. Tio woke from his last doze with a start
that set his pulse aJbeat, for a whispering and rustling
filled the Caves, and through it sounded a voice, hollow
and groaning, as a dead man speaking from the tomb.
“O Tio, my brother, avenge me that my spirit may
rest!”
“Thy slayer?” gasped Tio. “Name the Name!”
The answer came echoing through the Caves, tossed
from wall to column, from column to point, so that it
seemed as if a thousand voices screamed, “Turn! My
wife! Turu!”
Again and again, “Turu! Turu! Turu!” came pulsing
from floor and roof and walls, and the bats, disturbed
by the echoes as they were settling to rest, added their
thin, shrill squeakings and, fluttering madly about in the
grey gloom, brushed Tip’s face with their wings.
He scrambled to his feet, sweating with terror, and
heedless of the stone points that grazed his shins and
scraped his scalp, sped to the entrance.
“Turu!” he repeated between his clenched teeth, and
came to an abrupt stop. “Turu! A woman? A woman
to have slain such a valiant man as Dobu? What shame!”
He stared with troubled eyes out into the growing light.
Men would scorn him, branding him as a coward shirking
combat, if he went down with a woman’s name upon
his lips.. Nor would the blood of a woman slake his thirst
for vengeance. If Turu had indeed slain his brother, there
must be some man who had urged her to the deed—some
man whom he could fight to the death.
Swiftly came the thought of Igela’s urgent plea for
Turu; his indecent haste in asking for the widow whilst
Dobu's bones lay in the village; and a grin of satisfaction
lit Tio’s savage eyes. He licked his dry lips, muttering
“Igela, the lover of Turu! Dobu, my brother, thou shalt
be avenged!” and, stepping out, caught up his weapons.
At peep o’ day all, save only the Watcher at the Gate,
had gathered at the foot of the cliff to await Tio’s coming,
anxious eyes fixed aloft on the mouth of the Caves of
the Dead. When his figure came into view, shuddering
sighs broke from parched lips, and fear gripped many a
heart.
Swiftly he came, down the stony path, down and down
until he paused above the flat on which they stood. His
dark face was grim, his broad nostrils expanded, and his
eyes flickered savagely over the upturned faces, resting
first on Turu and flaming with the green light of the
killer as they settled on Igela, who was lounging on his
spear at the edge of the dense throng.
Igela quailed before that look. Why was Tio turn-
ing towards him? He cast a swift glance over his shoulder
at the widow, who was trying to hide herself behind his
broad back.
Was it Turu? A spasm of fear wrenched his breast.
Was it the Curse?
Far away across the river a kepoka shrilled, and with
eyes on the eastern sky the Watcher at the Gate called
the hour of sunrise and threw aside the heavy night-grid.
Igela started at the sound, shivering as he met those
blazing e.yes once more and heard Tio’s accusing voice ring
out, “Igela, thou coveter of men’s wives! Thou art the
man!”
There was a whisper of escaping breaths, and then
in panic the crowd scrambled aside as Tio leapt forward
yelling, “Stand and fight, Igela! Oh, thou coward!”
For the craven-hearted Igela had turned and fled for the
bridge, the Bridge of Safety, with Turu close behind.
Racing through the village the fear-stricken couple
flew, the lean and sinewy avenger at their heels, drawing
nearer, ever nearer, as though the Wing-god had lent
him wings.
Skirting the stockade, the fleeing pair reached the
gate abreast. With a snarl and a vicious push, Igela
thrust Turu back and sped towards the Bridge. With a
ciy of despair, the woman flung herself through, Tio’s
triumphant cry ringing in her ears, .whilst the man-catcher,
wielded by his skilful hand, came pecking at her heels.
Desperately she sprang, gaining the glistening path
across the gorge with Igela but a pace ahead; then the
man-catcher, stretching once more towards her, caught
her foot in its loop. Sobbing with terror, she stumbled,
and with outstretched arms strove to save herself, her
fingers fastening on Igela’s ankle as she fell.
Down he crashed, spread-eagled on the Bridge, striving
to clasp its smooth trunk, clinging franticallv to the slip-
pery wood, kicking Turu’s face with his free foot, clawing
with fingers that found no purchase, until they went over
the edge together, hurtling to the Hill of Skulls.
v- %
When Hae and her brood, full of excitement, returned
from watching the figures grow still and stiffen, she found
old Waria sitting before her hut, her eyes fixed on the
Bridge, her face drawn with grief.
Hae rolled a cigarette and, placing it in the bau-bau
lit it, and, thrusting it into the old woman’s slack hand!
whispered, “Eat, smoke and ease thy sorrow.”
Waria held the pipe to her quivering lips. “Ah!”
she sighed. “Though husband die and son forsake thee,
and thou art made the sport of the gods, there still
remains tobacco.”


m
Mi
j;
i
if
>
s''*
c<s
n
»
■hi
<€
A
s
■ ■■
"Wt
J
77
/
N
%
V ■
\
x
#
%
»'
\
%
&
\
X
/. XV,
0
r//
/
Z
£
*«&
*
S
IV
o
►
/
*$
*0
W
V
>
V
iu
&
3
•«*»
rf
-dEEI
O
V
I-
«.!VI
V-y*
\
WIS
1
OT*
fa*
!\
a
,X>
V
u
fOl
if
TOOHIYJ ■
lmr|
NEW LIGHT LAGER
BOTTLE- WITH THE YELLOW LABEL /
ML*
MM
LAGS
til


Dad as Grandpa
By Steele Rudd
BREAKFAST over at Ruddville; Grand-
pa standing, leaning on his stick, at
the garden gate, gazing out over the
farmstead, pondering back to days when he
followed the plough up and down, up and
down, or tossed sheaves from the waggon
to the stack, his voice never still, his
great brown arms never tired. And, standing
there, what a figure he looked! Pathetic?
No! Grand and triumphant!
Uncle Dave, passing from the milkyards,
carrying an empty can in his hand, called
out cheerfully:
“Old Strawberry has given her last drop,
Grandpa.”
(( Grandpa woke up. “W-what!” he roared.
“Dead? Strawberry dead on me?”
And before Dave could control himself
to explain, the old warrior had passed
through the gate and gone hobbling and
mumbling toward the yards.
“TIP best cow ever I had on me place!
An’ them lettin’ her starve —lettin’ her
starve, an’ lookin’ at her!”
“Here,” Dave interrupted, setting down
the can. “No one said she was dead!
Where th’ diggings are y’ off to?”
Simultaneously the voice of Grandma
piped from the house: “Nell! Your Grand-
pa is getting himself into trouble. Run,
dear!”
In a flash little Nell was in pursuit, and
calling to him as she ran.
“Of course she’s dead!” Grandpa rumbled
on : “Instead o’, feedin’ her the lot o’ you
let her die on me!” ,
Dave, holding out his arms, attempted to
block the way. But with the strength still
left in his great frame Grandpa pushed him
aside.
“Cripes!” Dave explained, making an-
other attempt at blocking him. “I didn’t
mean she was dead when I said she had
given her last drop. She’s gone dry, that’s
all. Hang it, you ought to understand
that—in your time you’ve milked plenty
of ’em dry as a bone yourself.”
“Grandpa! Wherever are you going?”
And Nell, catching up, took him by the
arm and steadied him.
“They’ve , let Strawberry die on me, gal.
The best cow ever I had. She’s gone, gal!”
And real tears came from the old man’s
hollow eyes.
“Bah!” Dave broke in, for
Nell’s information. “She’s gone
dry, that’s all. Like a lot
more of ’em will directly.”
“You’re wrong, Grandpa,”
Nell repeated, turning him for
the- gate again, “quite wrong.
Strawberry is alive, but she
won’t give any more milk,
that’s all.”
“Anyway ” Dave drawled,
“she’s not the Strawberry
you’re thinking of. Your
Strawberry died about twenty
year ago. An’, by cripes, she made no
mistake about it either. An’ if y’ can re-
member, we buried her in th’ gully at
Shingle Hut, an’ not before time either, by
cripes!” And, holding his nose, Dave
laughed in memory.
‘'Ah, yes, gal, that’s it,” grandpa suddenly
remembered. “We buried her in the gully,
an’ I dug th’ grave, dug it meself, gal, or
it would never have been dug half big
enough for her.”
“Cripes, yes,” Dave chuckled, “and y’
dug big enough to put the whole herd
into.” Then, calling back cheerfully as he
went on his way with the empty can: “How
would you like to be buried alongside her
yourself—in about another twenty year,
Grandpa?”
“Oh, Uncle Dave!” Nell exclaimed re-
provingly.
“It couldn’t be done, gal; it couldn’t
be done,” the old man answered. “None
o’ them would dig th’ grave big enough.
I’d have to do it meself, gal—do it meself.”
“Don’t take any notice of Uncle Dave,
Grandpa; he doesn’t mean what he says.”
“But I dug all th’ graves, gal—all th’
graves.”
“Everyone knows you did, Grandpa, but
we don’t want to talk about them any more.
V, e’re going into the garden where all the
bees and blossoms are.”
“I dug Mick Monahan’s grave, gal. But
you didn't know him—you didn’t know
him.”
“No, I didn’t know him, Grandpa. I
wasn’t born then. But here’s the gate, and
we are going right to the bottom of the
garden to see how the cabbages are getting
on.”
“He died on the side of the mountain,
gal, an’ was dead when we found him. An’
doubled up, gal, all doubled up. No one
could straighten him but me. They
weren’t strong enough, gal.”
“The poor fellow! But we don’t want
to talk about him now, Grandpa. Mind
the fork—it shouldn’t have been left there.”
HIS FAVORITE INSTRUMENT.
“A musician, were you? Well, I’m afraid I won’t be able to give you any comfort in
a musical way.”
“If you could get me a file, Parson, I think I could manage a few bars for meself.”.
“An’ I made th’ coffin they buried him
in, too, gal”
“Oh, Grandpa!”
“None of them could make a coffin—
they didn’t know how, gal—they didn’t
know how.”
“Look, Grandpa—look at all those lovely
young cabbages! Won’t there be a lot of
BUT HE WAS STILL HOPEFUL.
JIM: “You’ve got a shocking cold, old man. What are you taking for it?”
J ACK ( hoarsely ): “Nobody ain’t offered me nothin’ so far excep’ advice.”
them? How will we ever be able to eat
them all?”
“An’ when I made it they couldn’t put
him in it, gal. None of them were strong-
enough to press him down. I had to put
him in it myself—and bend his legs.”
“Oh, Grandpa! Grandpa!”. Nell pro-
tested. “Do admire the cabbages. What
do you think of that one—isn’t it a beauty?”
Here Uncle Joe suddenly appeared.
“H-h-hullo!” he said with a grin—
“w-w-what are you two f-f-fighting about?”
“Grandpa keeps talking about old times,
Uncle Joe, and I can’t stop him!”
“0-oh!” Joe stuttered . mirthfully.
“W-w-what’s he talkin’ about, N-N-Nell?”
“About burying someone called Mick
Monahan,” Nell laughed reluctantly.
“I re-m-member old M-M-Mick,” her
uncle claimed cheerfully. “They b-b-buried
him d-d-doubled up in a b-b-box.”
“That’s it—that’s it,” Grandpa said
solemnly: “I remember. I made the box,
gal—made it myself.”
“It would be h-h-hard not to remember
it, Grand-dad,” Uncle Joe grinned, “be-
cause when y’ n-n-nailed him in. it, old
M-M-Mick’s toe broke through the 1-1-lid,
an’ s-s-someone, I d-d-don’t know who.
sh-shaved it off with a s-s-spokeshave.”
“It was me, gal! I did it,” Grand-dad,
clutching Nell’s arm, claimed proudly.
“They didn’t know how to do it—didn’t
know how.”
“Oh, Uncle Joe,” poor Nell further pro-
tested, “why did you mention that?”
“Yes, I shaved his toe off, gal,” Grandpa
repeated. “I did it meself.”
“B-b-but look here, th-this is what I
w-w-want y’ to see.” And Uncle Joe,
drawing an old photo from inside his bulg-
ing shirt, quickly changed the subject.
“It’s w-w-what I came to sh-show y’. Do
y’ know anyone there?” And he displayed
to Grandpa a picture of Shingle Hut show-
ing Grandpa himself, axe in hand, with
Grandma beside him, Maloney and Mrs.
Maloney. Dwyer and Mrs. Dwyer, Ander-
son and Mrs. Anderson and Uncle Peter in
the background, all grouped by the front
door of the old home.
With brightened, wide-open eyes the old
man studied the photo. Then, letting the
peach-stick falTfrom his grasp, he clutched
the picture and held it with trembling
hands. .
“The old place! The old place! Shingle
Hut. I built it, gal,” he said in a broken
voice.
“It must be interesting to you, Grandpa,”
and Nell put an arm about his waist.
“That were me, gal—and Ellen. She
weren’t Granny then.”
“We know that, Grandpa—and doesn’t
she look young?”
“An’ that were my axe, gal—l cleared all
th’ paddock with it, gal.” And the old
man trembled more.
“But don’t get excited about it, Grandpa;
you’re shaking a lot.” And she put her
arm further round his waist.
“D-d’ y’ s-s-see old M-M-Maloney, an’
old D-Dwyer, an’ old Anders-s-son, an’ old
Uncle at th’ b-b-back, there?” Uncle Joe
asked with a chuckle.
“That were them! That were them!
That were them all!” And his voice sank
to a whisper.
“An’ all of ’em’s d-d-dead now, ’cept
you an’ Gr-granny,” Uncle Joe reminded
him proudly, but thoughtlessly.
“Dead! All dead!” And the photo, fell
from the old man’s hands like a withered
leaf fluttering from a dying tree. “All
’cept”
“Except you and Grandma, Grandpa!”
And throwing her two arms around him.
httle Nell suppoiied him firmly while for
a ew moments his head drooped over her.
The Inn.
I dwell within this house
Budded of God,
Green windy halls that spring
From the brown sod;
Walls that a purling stream
Silverly girds,
My friends the trees, my guests
The singing birds.
At dusk my evening fire
Glows in the gloom,
Like incense drifts the smoke
Through each long room;
There is no sound, no stir,
Save where unseen
The streamlet tumbles down
A stair of green.
A temple some would name
My peace-filled home,
The cloistered emerald gloom,
The- leafy dome,
The roof an arabesque
Of trembling bars,
Lit with the white moonshafts,
Tangled with stars.
In the soft, flowing night
The brown owls cry ;
The Seven Sisters sink,
The Cross rides high.
A little whimpering wind
But newly born
Seeks me, and bids me heed
Its note forlorn.
Morn, and a clarion call!
It is the lark
Soaring in ecstasy,
Flouting the dark;
Above the far blue hills
An eager dawrn
Has brushed with rosy fire
A sky of tawn.
A temple some would deem
My home, when float
Paeans of blithesome praise
From each bird-throat:
Sweeter the friendly name—
It is to me
God’s Inn, where joy has wed
Tranquillity.
N.S.W.
LILLA GORMJUILLIE McKAY.


A PAGE OF
VERSES.
TV* J3UDC£RE£
B>lsrsfSE.R
CO*TOR
/s< .i_< ~.0 ><*. -*
For Thc Bulletin
Oh to Be in Darlinghurst!
IT is cold and I'm rheumatic
In my little Chelsea attic,
There’s a fog that’s groping round the
window-pane;
It is Christmastime in Chelsea,
But I’m thinking of my Elsie,
And I want to be in Darlinghurst again!
Up the hill of William,
Round about the ’Cross,
Darlinghurst’s awake, dear,
Grief and gold and gloss ;
Then the morning after:
Bedlam in a flat,
Could I hear the laughter,
I’d go home for that!
Oh, I ought to feel ecstatic
In my little Chelsea attic.
It’s the status that I wanted to attain:
But the Chelsea poets’ chatter
Daily falls distinctly flatter,
So I want to be in Darlinghurst again!
Marching up Macleay-street
Singing Christmas songs,
Darlinghurst’s the Chelsea
Where my heart belongs!
Up the hill of William,
Round about the ’L00....
What? They haven’t altered
Eaton-avenue!
Do you wonder I’m dramatic
In my little Chelsea attic?
It’s a castle that was never built in Spain;
I admit 1 made a blunder,
And I want to be “down under”
With the wildest lads of Darlinghurst again !
Round about Macleay-street,
Fill a glass with beer;
Drink a toast to Gilly
Exiled over here;
Up the hill of William
Where the tramcars start,
Darlinghurst’s the Chelsea
Tangled in my heart!
ENGLAND.
GILBERT MANT.
Villanelle.
PRETTY, it is my song’s design,
In a drawn breath’s illusory chain,
To bind you, and to make you mine;
To trace your cool cheek’s vanishing line,
And your curved, soft lips, and their eyes’
refrain;
Pretty, it is my song’s design
To ruffle your sheened hair, soft and fine,
To sing your firm, low voice again,
To bind you, and to make you mine,
To see your dancing melodies twine
Aerily through this old demesne;
Pretty, it is my song’s design,
Whether you let me or decline,
Whether you love me or disdain,
To bind you, and to make you mine:
To melt you into a godlike wine,
Enchanting ever this dullened brain;
Pretty, it is my song’s design
To bind you, and to make you mine.
N.S.W.
RONALD McCUAIG.
Stubble Land.
TURN the first furrow before the day
brightens!
(Tramp steadily. Tramp! Tramp!) t
The ploughlines are taut, and the coupling-
chain tightens.
Puli readily—Don ! Scamp !
Over the stubble-land night mist is lying,
Seagulls are flying to freshly-turned
mould.
The trace-chains gleam silver, the dawn-
wind is sighing.
Fair breaks a morning of gold
(Tramp steadily. Tramp! Tramp!)
A morning of Death and of gold!
And in my small cottage the children are
weeping,
For strange hands lmve dressed them and
given them bread.
“Cry softly,” I told them, “for mother is
sleeping.”
They stared at my eyelids, grief-laden and
red.
Turn the last furrow while daylight yet
lingers!
(Tramp wearily. Tramp! Tramp!) .
Sweat-drenclied, the plough-lines in wind-
stiffened fingers
Sag drearily; cold; damp.
The bits of my horses are w T et with grey
foaming , ,
And dark in the gloaming stand haystack
and tree.
Low down o’er the stubble-land night birds
are roaming,
The gulls have flown back to the sea —
( Tramp wearily. Tramp ! Tramp !)
To their haven of rest by the sea,
And I must go back to the house in the
clearing.
The lamp in the window glows wantonly
bright;
But my step must be free, and my word
must be cheering.
Ah, Mother of Christ! give them comfort
to-night! _
N.S.W.
ERIC LAWE.
Woodland Dreamers.
WHEN hither first we wended,
On lesser mission bound.
Uprose in aisles unended
The pillars tall and round
Of sylvan temples splendid
Deep rooted in the ground.
Their dryads surely spelled us
With woodland witchcraft when
A fateful chance impelled us
Forsake the ways of men
For exile that has held us
In forest chains since then.
Bemused by fancies golden,
In newer lands re born,
Of Celtic longings olden
For meadows edged with corn.
Our tents were here unfolden
One blithe Australian morn.
Have sages not recorded
And poets told in song
How plenitude rewarded
The. patient and the strong
With harvests rich accorded
By furrows straight and long?
We won bush knighthood swinging
New swords of old desire,
Our gleaming axes ringing,
Our sweeping spears of fire
Defiant dragons bringing,
Man-conquered, to the mire.
Sweet are the songs of woman
In joy of motherhood ;
Grand are the epics human
Of Love and Truth and Good.
But, oh, the song a yeoman
Sings in his sunlit wood!
Right soon we learned no treasure
Beneath the rainbow shone;
Full well we found the pleasure
Of acres few, hard won,
Would be the humble measure
Of our reward when done.
No trumpets would the glory
Of our adventure call;
No saga-song nor story
On raptured hearers fall
When we with Time the hoary
Had passed beyond it all.
But still the task before us
Sweet recompense did bring:
A rich largess they bore us,
The fairies of the spring,
And God’s blue Heaven o’er us
Was e’er a gracious thing
When slender saplings scorning
A sober skirt of green
Took for their re-adorning
October’s rosy sheen,
And walked the Lady morning
Adown her fair demesne.
And pleasant was December
Among his greening maize.
And pleasant to remember
On rainy winter days
Before the fireside ember
The dreams of other days.
And music all times brought us
Her solace and delight;
And golden pages taught us
Content. By day or night
IT fnviv'ne hardy wrought us
Small measure of despite.
At homely tables nourished
By simple country fare.
Our charges thrived and flourished
Strong lads and maidens fair,
Who’ll keep for ever cherished
Fond mem’ries otherwhere.
And now— eheu fugaces! —
The young brood leaves the nest,
And sunset’s warning traces
Are written in the west....
In our appointed places
Soon comes the time of rest.
But this at least, a-nearing
Our short allotted span,
We know—the task, though wearing
And long that we began,
A homestead and a clearing,
A purpose and a plan
Remain. Though futile seeming
To them whose dull eyes hold
Vo picture save those gleaming
Within a frame of gold,
My lest beloved, dreaming,
Still dreaming, grow we old!
The road that turns to Endor
Let any take who will;
Our road winds sweet and tender
Through shady Dreamland still. ...
Mayhap when sunset’s splendor
Is over wood and hill
A.s thirsty pilgrims nearing
A long-expected stream,
Above a darkened clearing
Where stars of promise gleam,
We’ll read with eyes unfearing
The purpose of our dream.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.
The Spendthrifts.
LOVE would bo death if it were all
And the only end of striving, peace:
I have not come to you withal
That the long search for you should cease
In some stagnation of release.
Whereby our longings would be spent
For these poor aims of common thought:
Security and close content
Of each in each compactly wrought.
Sunk from old ecstasy to nought—
Too dear a price for us to pay
For static happiness, undiverse;
Though we have squandered in our day
And have flung planets from our purse,
The spendthrifts of the universe.
Test we grow sodden, I must find
Each hour in you the fresh unrest,
The quarrel for my turbulent mind
To drive me out on some new quest
Of what new sun befits you best;
So must seek far what has been shown
Reflected an instant in your face,
The summit of beauty, never known
Even in dreams —but shall retrace
My footsteps to their starting-place.
When with no treasure I return,
Only with scars from distant lands,
I will be ready then to learn
The lore your wisdom understands ;
And you shall fill my empty hands.
N.S.W.
ROBERT D. GERALD.
Beauty.
WHILES thou art fair be not too fond
of it, . ,
Nor vaunt thy beauty as a priceless
dower;
Helen herself the very worms devour.
And many a queen men did to earth_ commit
Whose term of beauty had seemed infinite :
Nay, treasure it but as a passing flower,
A taper that burns for a dreamy hour,
By which a lover may enchanted sit.
And if when the flame dies he too is gone
(As if his heart’s enchantment tailed him
then),
And thou art left as one unloved again
Grieve not, but let thy beauty’s shadow lie
As a dead flower on his memory,
A flower that Love himself has looked upon.
R. CRAWFORD.
The Eternals.
THE forests flamed in the epic ages,
The rivers of Babylon rose in flood,
Aspasia argued with singers and sages,
And laurels and roses sprang from the
blood
That reddened the earth where lovers
perished, .
The flower for her and the tree for him ;
But I had a red-haired cat I cherished
In a home-hut near to the Nile s red rim.
He lapped goat’s milk from a blue-glazed
platter , , ,
(Heaven’s own color, but cracked across) ;
He wore for a collar a green dress-tatter,
And the fish-heads he loved to him I d toss
After my man (slim, dark and so gentle)
Had laughed with me over the bread and
beer,
And —if lucky—the lettuce and lentil;
Then, as the Isis-moon drew near,
We’d talk of gods and wages and neighbors
(His slim, clever fingers entwined with
mine), . _ A ,
Hearing, afar, the voices and tabors
Where rich history-makers shared geese
and wine.
I see the blue glaze, the pet’s green neck-
band, ',
And the rolled rush-matting on which we
slept.
The Isis figure that used to stand
On a little shelf —and the day I wept
And promised a votive white lotus wreath
If the tax-men would let my man go free,
And straight as a mummy in linen sheath
The small wood figure looked kindly at
me....
The sky made crackle with muted singing,
The 'might of the atom being loosed like
fire,
Dreadnoughts, like silver rocs, rise winging,
And the dumb dead speak at the living s
desire. \
But two little rooms up fQur old stairways
With boxed geraniums at balcony’s verge,
And the blue of a great south harbor’s fair-
ways
Where sea and city, wed lovers, merge—
These are the marrow of love and living,
These are the veins in the; body; of time !
• Though fate be giving or unforgiving #
On Sunday the bells of St. Mary s chime,
And the red-haired cat with the torn green
neckband ,
Drinks milk from a saucer of cracked
blue ware;
On its shelf does the mothcr-imng'’ stand . . ..
Past or Present, we four are there.
N.S.W.
DULCIE DEAMER.
Fugitive.
Ofor the rose and the flute
And the light and the gold!
O for the song and the joy!
But the singer is mute.
And the rose is dead, and the boy
Is old !
O for the sun and the horn
And the chase and the tune
Of hallo and halloo and away!
But the hunt was at morn....
It is run, and the end of the day
Is soon.
O for the light and the rose
And the flute and the song!
O for the horn and the hounds !....
We have done, and must close
Eyes, ears to the colors and sounds
Ere long.
ENGLAND.
D. P. McGUIRE.
The Boys of To-day.
WE came through the Heads as the red
sun rose,
And oh ,’twas a sight to see
The laughing bays and the shining sands,
And the lights on rock and tree!
I had viewed the harbor a thousand times —
Yea, a thousand times and more—
But never before had I seen such blue,
And never such green before.
Its charm was such with its azure calm
Unbroken by wake or trail,
You'd think ’twas a bride on her wedding
day
Dressed out in her gown and veil.
For the silk o’ the sea was the gown o’ the
bride.
And her veil was the mist fine-spun ;
And the ’groom was no less than the sun
himself,
And his love was the light o’ the sun.
It. was good to see the roll and the splash
That the rollicking porpoise made,
And the sprinkle of fish like a silver rain
That leapt and fell at his raid ;
And to watch for a while the harbor gulls
As they swooped and circled; and then
To turn one’s eyes on the fishing boats
And the bearded Dago men.
I was home again, and my soul rushed out
To the charm of the lit expanse—
To the blue and the gold, and the green
and the grey
Of my heart’s inheritance.
I said: “Leagues travelled (though storms
betide,
And the salt seas haste and hiss)
Are richly ended if they but lead
To a homing place like this.”
There was never a cove that I did not know.
Or a beach at the cove’s far end ;
And I looked on the face of the lustrous
scene
As a friend on the face of a friend.
I knew the rocks and the hidden reefs,
And the hundred nooks and bays,
Where hither and thither we used to cruise
In the wild-heart sailing days ;
When leaning out to the list of the keel,
Hats off to the rushing wind,
We ploughed our way through the tumbled
waste
With a ribbon of foam behind.
It was here we swam and there we basked,
And yon was our fishing-ground;
And that’s where we camped when the night
drew down
With the tall trees grouped around.
It was little we thought of the days to be,
For the stars and the winds were ours,
And the azure ways and the hills green-
robed,
And the sunlit trees and flowers;
And a pipe to smoke and a bite to eat,
And a song or a<t times a dance,
And sweet eyes under a summer hat
With love or its like in their glance.
I stand and dream on the steamer’s deck,
And I watch the sunlit shore;
And I count the years that have passed
since then.
And they number a score and more.
A score and more! iCan it be all that
Since we trod the rose-strewn way?
Oh, the boys of old were a merry crew —
Now what of the boys of to-day?
Now what of the boys of to-day? I asked.
Are they shaped in our old-time mould?
Are their ways the same? Are their games
the same?
Are their thoughts the thoughts of old ?
A siren wailed on the morning air
And a great ship drew anigh;
And I lifted my eyes, and my heart drummed
loud
As my answer passed me by.
Her sides were grey, and her funnels grey,
And her thick smoke clouded the air:
And my heart wont out to the outbound
ship, , • , ,
For the boys of to-day were there!
They lined the rails ass we drew abreast
And they answered us, shout for shout:
* * * *
“A 67” —God steer her safe!—
Through the blue and the gold sa ! led out.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


£
■ i-v s'
4
v^"
: *£/
w Chocolates this
Cijrisinuis
No more acceptable present than one
of the famous Red Boxes of
HILLIERS
CHOCOLATES
Posted to you direct from the factory the
day they are made.
Prices, post free anywhere in Australia:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6, 20/-, 30/-, 37/6
ERNEST HILLIER, 162 Pitt Street, Sydney; and at Melbourne.
BUY BOOKS
They Make the Best Christmas Gifts.
ANNUALS
LATEST NOVELS
The Knife Through the Ace —
(McLeod Raine) ..
Shallow Seas (Richard Delian)..
Mosaic (G. B. Stern)
Golden Dawn (Peter B. Kyne) ..
Earth Battle (Dorothy Gotterell)
Marivosa (Baroness Orczy) .. . .
Storm Drift (Ethel Dell)
The Minion (Sabatini)
-Fighting Caravans (Zane Grey)
Here’s Luck (Lower, W.)
The Bracelet (Robert Hitehins)
Behind the Lines (Morris, W. F.)
Monsoon Music—
(Marie Bjelke-Petersen)
Mistrel (Max Brand)
The Calendar (Edgar Wallace)
Belshazzar (Rider Haggard) ..
Over the Hills (Farnol)
Only the Morning (John Dailey)
The Painted Minx—
(Robert Chambers)
Black Light (Talbot Mundy) ..
Cakes & Ale (Somerset Maugham)
Home of the Blizzard (Mawson)
Angel Pavement (Priestley) ..
Good Companions (Priestley) ..
Price Postage
THE BRIDGE BOOK
A beautiful photographic record of the world’s eighth wonder. The bridge
is depicted against backgrounds of glorious harbor scenery, taken from many
viewpoints.
Price 2/6. Postage 4d.
BOUND POETS.
Principals of Schools about to purchase Prizes are invited to inspect a
wonderful selection in beautiful leather bindings, which we are offering
at Special Clearance Prices.
A splendid display of Christmas Stationery, Christmas Cards, Calendars.
The Bookstall Packet of Xmas and New Year Cards. 1 2 Beautiful Designs.
Price 1/6. Postage 4d.
Our exhibition of Christmas Cards and. Calendars is the finest in Sydney.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
SUNSHINE HARVESTING MACHINES
■
m
m
pess^
:
, ■•'•;;
HBBH
11
H :
THE SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER
12ft. Cut. Self Propelled. (See top illustration.)
Will harvest 40 acres in a day. Petrol consumption half a gallon to
the acre. Two men only required, one to drive and one to tend the
bagging on the bagging platform. The Auto Header secures the
maximum yield of grain from every condition of crop, heavy or light,
storm-flattened or weed-infested. It is Quick, Efficient and Eco-
nomical.
THE SUNSHINE HEADER HARVESTER
6ft., Bft. and 10ft. Cut. (See centre illustration.)
Sunshine Header Harvesters are renowned for their ability to pick
up and successfully harvest the worst down and tangled or thistle-
choked crops. They are equally effective in clean standing crops,
whether heavy or light, on hillside or level ground.
For work on very sandy or hilly country, or for rice-harvesting, the
machine can be supplied with a 4-cylinder petrol engine incorporated
to drive the mechanism. A small team suffices for haulage.
The Sunshine Header Harvester also harvests field peas, and for
this purpose a special pea-reaping front is attached to the 6ft. or Bft.
machine. In consequence, peas can be profitably grown as a rotation
crop.
THE SUNSHINE STRIPPER HARVESTER
TypeA.L. Bft. and 10ft. cut. (See bottom illustration.)
The light-draught harvester. Five horses pull it in normal crop, six
horses in heavy conditions. Side draught is reduced to a minimum.
Successfully harvests light and heavy crops.
ALSO THE SUNSHINE REAPER AND BINDER
Sweet running, sure tying, neat sheafing, long lasting, 6ft. and Bft. sizes.
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE.
BRANCHES: 664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne; 27-39 George Street West, Sydney; 95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide; Corner Murray
and King Streets, Perth. Queensland Distributors: H. V. McKay (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
Illustrated Descriptive Catalogues, Prices and Terms, posted free on request.


OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand. • .
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell’” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Hairdresser, Vic., expert all branches, world-wide
exp., wants position N.S.W. or Vic. —271.
Young countrywoman, Tasmania, isolated district,
will pay postage if someone will forward when finished
copies of The Bulletin. — 236.
Teacher for Southern N.S.W. subsidised school
required, male preferred, first week February. Apply
with particulars of educational qualifications.—223.
To buy “Australian Nursery Rhymes,” published
by The Bulletin; and cartoons by Claude Marquet,
published by the “Australian Worker,” Sydney.—2s2.
To buy “Cartoons by Bradley,” published by Rand,
McNally, Chicago.—2sl.
To buy Hugo’s “German Reader Simplified.”—2l4.
To buy copy of “The Billy Book,” by David Low,
—241.
To buy, second-hand, vol. 12, Official History A.I.F.
(Bean). —269.
To buy McKee Wright’s “Station Ballads” (1897),
Havelock Ellis’s “Ka,nga Greek,” Rod. Quinn’s
“Mostyn Stayne,” Bonwick’s “Michael Howe” and
any Australian art books. —267.
To buy “Stock Owners’ Guide,” published by the
“Pastoral Review,” 1914 or later. —297.
To buy, or exchange for another book, “All Awry,”
by M. Ainsley.—262.
To buy old and new Australian military badges,
shoulder titles and buttons. —263.
Address of Leslie C. Roberts, who was in Adelaide
during the early part of the year, now believed
to be in Papua.—34s.
Addresses of representatives in Australia of American
buyers of marsupial skins. —66.
Information Supplied.
(1) Was the late Clement Wragge ever
Government Meteorologist in N. S. Wales?
(2) A brief account of his career? (3) Who
was the N.S.W. Government Meteorologist
prior to Mr. Mares? —80.
(1) No. (2) He was born in Worcester-
shire (Eng.) in 1852; studied for the law,
but abandoned that for navigation. Later,
migrating to S. Aus., he joined the Surveyor-
General’s department. Returning to England
in 1878, he took up meteorology and in 1881
he founded Ben Nevis observatory. Return-
ing to Australia in 1883. he instituted the
Torrens and Mt. Lofty observatories. lie
became Government Meteorologist in Queens-
land in ’B7, and issued, using very original
methods, most accurate weather forecasts.
He reorganised the Tas. meteorological ser-
vice, founded the Mt. Wellington, Mt. Kos-
ciusko and other Australian observatories.
He resigned his Queensland post in 1902 and
his last days were spent in Maoriland. (3)
Stewart Wilson.
What makes the sea salt? —285.
It is held by some authorities that the
sea originally consisted of fresh water and
became saline by the washing out of salts
from the land by rain and rivers, but the
generally-held theory is that the sea was
salt from the beginning. The principal saline
constituent of ocean water is common salt
(sodium chloride), 2.7 per cent.; other
salts, including those of magnesium,
gypsum, potassium and calcium, make up
the proportion to 3.5 per cent.
(1) Do men who smoke cigars and pipes
generally inhale in the way _ of cigarette
smokers? (2) What is there in a pipe that
makes it such a pleasure to a man? —305.
(1) No. Many cigarette smokers, also, do
not inhale* (2) It has a sedative effect upon
the nerves.
(1) What is Soviet Russia’s five-year
plan? (2) How is it working out? —ll9.
(1) An effort, commencing with the year
1927-28, to increase production of all sorts, to
reduce cost of production and lessen the
part played by capital and private enter-
prise in industry and commerce. Production
costs are to be reduced by 35 per cent.;
sale prices by 24 per cent. (2) The
first year’s results fell far short of what
was estimated in almost all departments.
For instance, agricultural output, which
was to be increased by 3.5 per cent., in-
creased by only 1.8 per cent. By the erection
of power stations the power output was in-
creased by 16.8 per cent., 1.2 per cent, over
the estimate, but expected reductions in
price of power did not follow.
(1) What is Maoriland’s national debt?
(2) Have they an excess of exports over
imports? (3) What is the taxation per head
of population? (4) Has M.L. a war debt?
— 122.
(1) £267.383.343 at March 31 last. (2)
Yes. It averaged £2.110,855 p.a. for the 10
years 1920 to 1929 inclusive. For the nine
months ended September last the balance
was £3,782.537. (3) For 1929-30, £l3 3s.
7d 1 4) Yes. It stood at £70,881,270 on
March 31, 1929.
(1) Britain invests a great deal of capital
abroad. Has she a gold supply to the full
extent of her advances to other nations eacli
year? (2) How much gold is held in
Britain? (3) If inflation deceases the
value of money at fixed deposit at banks, what
effect would it have on money owing to
banks?—22l.
(1) No. A loan to a country outside
Britain creates credits in Britain. Gold is
shipped only to adjust international balances.
It is, in post-war days, exclusively used to
adjust such differences, since banknotes are
no’ longer (although they say so on then-
faces) exchangeable for their value in gold
coin. But credits, extended by one nation
to another, will purchase goods at market
rates, and so long as the lending nation
doesn’t monkey with its currency arrange-
ments they are as good as void. (2) Bank
of England gold coin and biillion reserves
were stated on Nov. sat £160,3i2,9i0. (3)
Inflation is a boon to debtors and a calamity
to creditors. The average trading bank
suffers by inflation primarily to the degree
by which its advances exceed its deposits.
(1) What is the story of the Mary Celeste?
(2) ft as the mystery been satisfactorily ex-
plained?—994l.
(1) The ship, an American brig, was found
by a British vessel, the Dei Gratia, on Dec.
4, 1872, 400 miles east of the Azores, under
foremast staysail and jib, and steering an
erratic course. There was not a soul aboard.
The last entry in the ship’s log had been
made on Nov. 24. The vessel was sea-
worthy and staunch, and her boats were on
board. There were no traces of panic or
of fighting and the cash-box was untouched.
(2) There have been many attempts to
explain it; none has gained general accept-
ance.
Whilst a Digger I was stationed near
Stonehenge. Can you tell me how the
stones got there and what they represent? —
132.
The origin of this circle of stones is a
mystery. Most authorities hold the view
that they constituted an unroofed temple for
the performance of Druidical rites. Lord
Avebury has advanced _ the theory that the
stones were erected in the Bronze Age
(ir>oo to 1000 8.c, ). The layout of two
concentric rings, with an inner horseshoe,
the opening of which faces the rising sun,
suggests that Stonehenge was built by sun-
worshippers.
In auction bridge, should the declarer
lead from his own hand when dummy’s card
won the last trick, or vice versa, is it
dummy’s duty to point out the error? —145.
No. Under both English and American
rules there is no penalty for such a play
In the latest edition of Routledge's
“Hoyle” (English) it is laid down that
dummy “may not draw the declarer’s atten-
tion to the fact that he is about to lead, or
has led. from the wrong hand, and if he
does so the adversary on the declarer’s left
may name the hand from which the lead is
to be mnde.” The right of objecting to such
a play is reserved to the opponents of the
declarer.
(1) Are there as good chances of employ-
ment on a sheep station or dairy farm in
M.L. as there are in (/land for a lad of 17?
(2) Any conditions as to finance, health, etc.,
to be observed before I could land in M.L.?
(3) Could I, visit Rotorua, a Maori village
or other show-places unaccompanied, without
having to obtain permission? —9854.
(lj Hard to say; it would not be wise
to go to M.L. on the chance of getting work.
(2) Persons entering the Dominion must
be in good physical and mental health and
not likely to become a charge upon public
or private charity. (3) Rotorua and all
resorts of M.L. are open to the public with-
out restriction of any kind.
Can you describe the fish known as the
fortesque? —9B7o.
Fortesoue (Centropogon australis ) is a
common N.S.W. fish under 6in. long, marked
with dark brown blotches on a light, back-
ground. On either side of its snout is a
grooved barb, erectile, with venom-glands;
it can inflict painful wounds.
What was the recent trouble in Western
Samoa due to, and how did it end? —133.
Largely, the fixing of a price for native-
produced copra by the mandatory Power.
This clashed with certain long-estab
lished interests. As a result the Mau, an
insurgent body of native growers, was
formed, its activities taking the form of a
civil-disobedience campaign. The League, of
Nations found in favor of the action
taken by the M.L. authorities. Since then
the trouble has been simmering out.
What is the composition of luminous
paint as used on watches and clocks, and
would it pay to manufacture it in Aus-
tralia? —9992.
The best is made from a radium bromide
or thorium compound. These are the only
satisfactory paints. Others consist of cal-
cium sulphate, strontium carbonate, sulphur,
bismuth nitrate, rubidium oxide, lithium car-
bonate and other rare chemicals mixed in
such minute quantities that the compound-
ing can only be accomplished by an experi-
enced chemist. The preparation of such
paints in Australia would not be profitable.
I wish to plant early in December a mix-
ture of native shrubs in my bush garden at
Roseville (Sydney). Can you recommend
a selection? How should seeds be treated?
How to plant? Is it necessary to manure
native flora? Any other hints? —15.
The chief thing when planting native
shrubs is not to crowd them. Leave enough
room for the sunshine to keep the ground
warm. The most suitable soil is sandy loam
in which is incorporated leaf mould and well-
rotted cow manure; but don’t plant in badly-
drained positions. Stable manure should
be avoided. It is preferable to procure estab-
lished plants from nurserymen, since it will
save considerable time. This list of plants
should do well in your district (the approxi-
mate heights are also shown) ; Christmas
bush, 10ft.; red bottlebrush, Bft.; Geraldton
waxflower, 4ft.; waratah, 6ft.; kangaroo
paw, 3ft.; eucalyptus ficifolia (crimson),
20ft.; eucalyptus torquata (orange scarlet),
Bft.; heaths in white, pink and red, 2ft.;
ti-tree, various colors, 4ft.; dog bush, sft.;
needlebush (Lakea), 10ft.; and the low-
growing Christmas bells, flannel flowers,
native rose and boronia (various colors).
Shade the plants from the sun for a while
after setting out to enable them to root
firmly. If seed is to be experimented with,
soak the boxes with hot water after sowing
and allow 7 the plants to grow 7 hardy before
shifting them to open beds. With all native
plants it is preferable not to meddle with,
them after setting in position, except to
gently stir the soil to let air to the roots.
How could I secure an appointment a*
an electrician aboard a P. and O. loot:
Wages and prospects of obtaining such a
job?— l42.
As a general rule appointments are made
from London. Application should be lodged
with the P. and O. S. N. Co., 122 Leaden-
hall-street, London, E.C.3. The salary is
£l3 per month on appointment, rising to
£l6 per month ; applicants must have served
a live-years' apprenticeship, including two
years in a pow T er-liouse. Prospects of secur-
ing an appointment are not bright.
On a purchased annuity the Tas. Taxa-
tion Department imposes a tax on the in-
terest of the whole amount. Any of the
other States do so? It seems like taxing
both capital and interest. —9876.
Under Federal law an annuity is in-
come, but in the case of an annuity which
has been purchased is not taxable in respect
of that part which represents the purchase
price. Some taxation officials divide an
annuity into three parts: (1) return of capi-
tal, (2) interest, (3) benefit of continued
survivance. The practice in the various
States varies, but it may be taken for granted
that each State Commissioner levys tax at
least upon that part of an annuity repre-
senting interest.
How can an Australian join the U.S.A.
Navy t—lsB:
He must be a naturalised resident of the
U.S.A., 18 years of age, and pass the phy-
sical and mental examinations as prescribed
bv the naval authorities. It is not possible
to enlist in the navy outside of U.S. terri-
tory.
(1) What salary is payable to a clerk in
Vic. during his first and subsequent four
years’ employment, presuming he commenced
work at the age of 16? (2) Any increase
after he turns 21? (3) Where could a copy
of the award be obtained? —14.
(1) First year, 19s. a week; second year,
275. 6d.; third year, 385.; fourth year, 495.
(2l On reaching 21 years, and thereafter
86s. 6d. (3) From Government Printer,
Melbourne; price 4d.
Is there any mention in the N.S.W. Motor
Traffic Act regarding reverse gear in (a)
motor vehicles, (b) three-wheeled vehicles
and (c) motor-cycles only? —s.
Clause 3 of Schedule F of the N. S. Wales
Motor Traffic Regulations provides that be-
fore a motor vehicle is registered it must,
be capable of being so worked that it may
travel backwards. This would also apply
to three-wheeled vehicles. Clause 7 of the
same schedule provides that Clauses 3 to
6 are not to apply to motor-cycles, therefore
it is not necessary for them to have reverse
gears.
(1) What kind of wood is employed for
separators in chloride accumulators? (2)
Method of treatment for rendering the wood
impervious to sulphuric acid? —9931.
(1) Port Orford cedar, most commonly.
(2) The accumulator manufacturers use
secret processes.
(1) Does the N.S.W. Government do
anything in the way of providing sparsely
populated districts with medical officers?
(2) What steps should an out-back com-
munity take in order to secure the services
of a doctor? —69.
(1) In localities where the paucity of
population would not otherwise warrant
taking up a practice the Government fur-
nishes contributions to bring the emoluments
of a practitioner up to about £6OO p.a.
(2) You should form a committee, which
should furnish a guarantee to the Govern-
ment as to the amount the doctor will make
from private practice. This part of the
arrangement is a matter between the com-
mittee and the doctor, whose appointment
is subject to the approval of the Minister
for Public Health.
How to increase or decrease the generator
charging rate in a new model Ford car ? —
143.
Remove generator cover and loosen field
brush-holder lock screw. The field brush-
holder can be easily identified, as it is the
only one of the five brush-holders which oper-
ates in a slot in the brush-holder ring and
which is provided with a locking screw.. The
remainder of the brush-holders are riveted
to the ring and are not movable. To in-
crease the charging rate loosen the screw
and move the brush-holder in the direction
of rotating; to reduce the rate shift the
brush in the opposite direction. The output
of the generator is indicated by the am-
meter located on the instrument panel.
I was born in India, and will be eligible
for an Australian old-age pension next year.
Must I obtain a birth certificate from India?
—47.
Some documentary proof of age should
be furnished, if possible, such as birth certi-
ficate, marriage certificate or children's
birth certificates. If such are not in posses-
sion of an applicant a claim may still be
made, but it will be necessary for informa-
tion to be given that will enable age to be
proved.
What is the correct usage . of “a” and
“an” before words beginning with “h”? —276.
Use “a” when the “h” is sounded, as in
“history” or “harvest,” and “an” when the
“h” is silent, as in “hour” or “heir.”
Particulars of cheap excursion trips to
England by steamer in 1932? —9949.
No official confirmation of rumors that
there is to be a reduction. Present minimum
fares are £3B single journey, £6B return
journey, tickets being available for 12
months.
How should a lady who has been divorced
be addressed? If she gained a title by marry-
ing does she retain it after divorce? —4.
The usual practice is for the lady to retain
the name or title she gained by marriage but
it is a matter she. decides for herself. Some
resume their maiden names, but in cases
where a title has been acquired by marriage
it is not usually discarded. It was laid
down in the Cowley case that the retention
of the title or name of a former husband
cannot be interfered with by a Court of Law.
flow does a flying-fish fly?— l47.
According to Mr. T. C. Roughley, of the
Technological Museum, Sydney, it is a matter
of controversy. The fish projects itself out of
the water by swimming very swiftly, and takes
the air with the pectoral fins outstretched
like the wings of a bird and the ventral fins
spread out to balance it. Some authorities
aav the fish has no power of propulsion once
it is entirely in the air. Others insist that
fljo-ht, is maintained by an extremely rapid
movement of the pectoral fins.
Brief Answers.
W.IT.: The horse may have a form of
mange. Ask your local inspector of stock to obtain a
scraping and have it examined A.W.U.: Neither
the guarantors nor the public can trench on the
powers of the trustees C.L.H.: Dissolve two parts
of crystallised chloride of iron, two parts solid chloride
of antimony and one part gallic acid in four or
five parts of water, apply with a, small sponge and
let dry in the air. Repeat two or three times, then
wash with water and dry. Rub with boiled linseed
oil to deepen the shade. Repeat until satisfied with
the result. . . .A.A.: Write Richardson Gears, Ltd.,
Whitehall-street, Footscray, Vic K.J.: There are
several species of crowfoot common to Austialia,
dwarf varieties growing 6in. to 2ft., and taller
varieties from 2ft. to 6ft., and stock of - all kinds
are extremely fond of it. Seed is not obtainable
commercially.... J.K.J.: The “Farmers Handbook
(11s. 6d., posted) and Pearse’s “Sheep Farm and
Station Management’’ (21s. 6d., posted) ... .Lameroo:
It would be possible, but it would be necessary to
hold a N.S.W. Local Government Clerk’s certificate.
The minimum salary payable is £330 p.a., with a
maximum under the award of £750 p.a. Some
councils are paying up to £1000... .W.W.: (1) Cut
the skin open along centre of belly and round head.
Start pulling skin off from hqad. (2) Clean flesh
off with scraper and rub salt on flesh side. (3)
Nail skin on board and allow to dry without exposuie
to the sun. (4) Skin should receive salt as
soon as possible after the shake is killed. If no
salt is available, expose for drying purposes at once.
W.T.T.: If the fleece is free from dust, seed and
burr, it would be worth about ss. 6d. gross at the
Sydney stores. A slightly burry fleece would realise
about 4s. 6d. and a very burry fleece about 3s. Cd.
R.H.: It is the legal practice to have a deed
poll drawn up by a solicitor and deposited with
the Registrar-General of the State in which the
person resides; the registration fee is about 2s. 6d.,
the solicitor’s a matter of agreement. The change
of name should also be advertised S.E.: The
principle “let the buyer beware” appears to apply.
If before purchasing the second-hand piano you were
given opportunity of testing it, or of having it
tested, you have not, in the absence of any warranty
of good condition, redress against the vendor
0.H.N.: (1) It is necessary to move the Court to
have the decree made absolute. Until this is done
the proceedings are not concluded. (2) Yes. (3 )
The Registrar of Divorce, Supreme Court House, King-
street, Sydney. (4) Yes, inform the department of
the facts... ..T.A.M.: Yes, if the account is in the
names of both parties jointly. The bank may ask
for the certificate of death.... C.A.R.: Sorry, but no
records are available.. . .1.T.H.: The botanical name
of the turpentine is Synoarpia laurifolia. The 111a-
warra cedar (white cedar) is Melia adedarach. The
red cedar (Oedrela australis ) also grows in the Illa-
warra district and may be called “Illawarra cedar
by some people. Samples of the foliage and fruit
of the fig-tree should be submitted for identification
to the Botanic Gardens, as there are several fig-trees
natives of the Illawarra district N.W.W.: No
reference in the old records of the Sydney Botanic
Gardens to the exporting of eucalyptus seeds or
plants-to Abyssinia... .E.0.N.: The value of a piece
of opal depends entirely upon quality and purchaser’s
fancy. Try Percy Marks, jeweller, 5 Hunter-street,
Sydney.. . .W.L.J.: Money spent in preliminary flying
training is not allowed as a deduction for either
State or Federal purposes... .T.F.W.: Nothing js
known officially of the proposed seaplane service
along the coast to Brisbane... .P.H.: Communicate
with the Forests Department of S. Aus., which has
large plantations of Pinus insignis. ... J.A. : (1) Any-
thing between 71 and 78 year's. (2) Miss Coppin,
daughter of the late George Coppin, states that the
Cremorne Garden was closed about 1860. (3) In
two sections, the first between North Melbourne and
Essendon on October 21, 1860, and the second be-
tween Essendon and Seymour on April 18, 1882
J.M.: (1) Suggest a good quality cream wove paper,
letter size (Biin. by 10-jin.) ; type, double spacing
and leave generous margins. (2) Number pages con-
secutively ; do not start fresh numbers with each
chapter ; bind at convenient intervals and place whole
in a spring-clip file box... .S.C.T.: W. R. Carpentei,
19 O’Connell-street; Levers’ Pacific Plantations, 117
Pitt-street; Malayta Co., 72 King-street; New Guinea
Trade Agency, 114 a Pitt-street —all of Sydney....
M.L.: Write' Director, Taronga Zoological Park,
Mosman, Sydney... .J.0.A.: Write Numismatist, Aus-
tralian Museum, College-street, Sydney... .C. 8.: See
no reason why it should be paid before due date....
F.A.: Priority should be given to the order of the
Court J.W.: A mimeographed statement can be
secured from the Commonwealth Bureau of Census
and Statistics, Canberra, showing methods adopted
in arriving at the retail price index-numbers....
A.H.S.: Separate Customs records are not kept of cane
imported for manufacturing furniture or motor-car
polishes T.C.: The symptoms are not those char-
acteristic of tuberculosis of the udder, but are com-
monly seen in ordinary sporadic mammitis. The
hardening in the udder will, in all probability, not
entirely disappear, as new fibrous tissue has apparent >
been formed at the expense of the normal gland tissue.
Provided the milk is normal in appearance and the
oow is otherwise healthy, there is very little risk
in making use of the mi1k.... M.N.: No recorrs
available Sydney. Try Public Library, Adelaide....
K.G.: N.S.W. Dept, of Public Health has compiled a
model code of rules for guidance of committees when
drafting rules or by-laws for management of public
subsidised hospitals. Write to the Under-Secretaiy
for a copy.. .'.A.8.H.: Details of scheme proposed
by Prof. Teeson for making rain by scattering crushed
ice from aeroplanes above the clouds will be found
in the “Sydney Morning Herald,” January 25, 1930.
H.J.M.: Joseph Fowles’s “Sydney in 1848” (with
typed index inserted), price 31s. 6d., and Maclehose s
“Picture of Sydney and Stranger’s Guide in N.S.W.
for 1839” (with map and 44 plates), price £o os.,
can be obtained from Angus and Robertson, Sydney.
W.J.B.: Samuel Bennett’s “History of Australian
Discovery' and Colonisation (1867)” is obtainable
from Angus and Robertson, Sy'dney. Price, 42s
S.M.T.: The threes can be counted. Total is 21....
W.D.: Send them to either the Bush Book Club of
N.S.W., 161 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, or Australian
Inland Mission, 92b Pitt-street, Sydney J.P.M.K.:
A will speaks from the death of the testator; not
from the date it was made. During her bfetime th : ’
mother could make such gifts as she thought fit to
her daughter....G.M.F.: (1) A only can claim a
commission, but you should, on the sale having been
made by him, inform B and withdraw the property
from his books. (2) Still alive and has been
appearing in his original r6le at Opera
House, Sydney....A.E.B.: If the person has no
other income or property, and provided all othei
qualifications are proved, a reduced rate of pension
would be payable. Where a person has property ro
the value of £4OO or over, other than the home in
which he or she permanently resides, no pension is
navable .G.S.: The price of a similar Avro A-
wino in England is £1470, and the price at which
the "local manufacturers sold the Australian-made
wing was £l3OO, plus sales tax... .A.T.8.: A thin
film of highly-refined mineral oil may be placed, on
top of the electrolyte in extreme cases of evaporation,
and overcharging the battery must be avoided
(Many others mailed.)


a®
m
t m
r
vast
M
»
SYs
<A
s':.
mmm
m/smmmmtmr
ufc
SI
IRSik
;|J|
SXvX'NWjSSSSSS
sSassssSSSxSs
1111
Wpl|
KJB*
M:
sMW I :
mm
mm
m
KSSSKSaS
Wm 4 ' m
f * <A; ' t,
mmmm mm ii
m
\fh J i K &JL >1
mwmm
m
mi
i» :
1
FORD CARS
TRUCKS AND
TRACTORS ARE
BRITISH EMPIRE
PRODUCTS
The New Ford Sports Phaeton
ln line with the Ford policy of continuous improvement this Sports Phaeton model features new two-tone double-cushion
upholstery, folding windscreen, cowl lights, bumpers front and rear, steel-spoke wheels, and streamlined body design in wide range
of colours. Robe rail and foot rest are provided in rear compartment. Luggage carrier at rear is commodious and spare wheel at
side allows easy wheel changing without disturbing baggage.
Holidays are happiest this carefree,
inexpensive way. » » » » »
SESSION of the New Ford means fast and comfortable motoring at half the cost of running a
heavy car. Your nearest Ford Dealer will be glad to prove the economy of this fine car and
to explain the reason for its Value far above the Price Standard Phaeton and
Roadster £218; .. . Sports Phaeton £230; . . . Sports Roadster £233; . . . Sports Coupe £295;
Foidor Sedan s, , Town Sedan a? q i . aii • rn r»
, .. i own Sedan A 31 5, . . All prices F. 0.8. nearest Ford Works. Sales Tax Extra.
*ORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY T Til r i c j
IY. LTD., Geelong - Sydney • Brisbane - Adelaide - Perth
ď
NC. 35/B


4
GOOD
TOOLS
For All
Trades
By the World’s best
makers. A splendid range
in all branches —Wood-
workers, Engineers,
Plasterers, Blacksmiths,
Moulders, Plumbers, Elec-
tricians, etc;. Quality
guaranteed. Prices com-
petitive.
It pays every time to get
our prices for all good
tools you require.
I JOHN
niiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
prP
pry'-
llltlllllllflllllKS
&SON i
'.immimsimnmi
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
32 4-3 30 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
m.
• : *'S
ms
m
• ■* ♦*
.: ,A
w. %
Ay
f: .
3»'
yt.m
"Ms,?
k
y-m
x-x. .'
IJ
SNM& W
:ii
if;., ill
/r V*
s# 11
• 1 >i.<i' ■vS
m
5 < 'tv
iff; i
ir
19 Wonderful Days
Sydney to San Francisco’s famous Golden Gate in 19
days. . . . “All too short!” say the pleasure trippers. The
very thing we want!” say the business men en route to the
great markets of America and Europe.
Nineteen days filled with sunlight, placid seas, delightful
ports of call, happy native people, majestic scenery, lovely
flowers, exotic plant life—living in a different world —a
happier world, that ends only too soon.
When the call to America or Europe necessitates speed, with
comfort, the Matson-Oceanic route answers, adding distract-
ing interest and courteous service.
ICARP«;. SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO, First-class from £73; Second-class
( m f 50/10/-* SYDNEY to NEW YORK, First-class from £95/14/-; Second-
from £73/4/-- SYDNBY “ LONDON from £97. ROUND THE
WOR S s' SIERRA tom “&& SONOMA . S.S. VENTURA
c att TNG EVERY THIRD SATURDAY FROM CIRCULAR QUAY, SIDNEY
For SUVA, PAGO PAGO, HONOLULU and SAN FRANCISCO
Special Cheap Excursion Tickets issued to Honolulu all the year round.
% Oceanic SteamshipC®
MATSON LINE
Local
Agents i
Mcllwraith, McEacharn Ltd.
Dalgety & Company Ltd.
Dalgety 8C Company Ltd.,
12 Bridge Street, Sydney
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Fremantle,
Albany.
Brisbane, and all Queensland Ports*
Write for descriptive
pamphlets, fare lists,
sailing dates, etc.
Name
Address
Ghe
A.MP. SOCIETY
Extends the Season’s Greetings to
all beneath the Southern Cross.
LIFE ASSURANCE means happiness to-day and
to-morrow. When you invest in life assurance your
savings are absolutely safeguarded and put y or e
day when they will be needed most.
ASSETS - - £78,500,000
The whole of which belongs to the members.
ENQUIRIES WELCOMED.
DIRECTORS:
Sir ALFRED MEEKS, K.8.E., M.L.C., Chairman; Sir SAMUEL HORDERN.
Deputy Chairman; ALEX. JOBSON, Esq.; Dr. G. H. ABBOTT; CECIL
H. HOSKINS, Esq.; G. M. MACARTHUR ONSLOW, Esq., C. •>
Rt. Hon. Sir ADRIAN KNOX, P.C., K.C.M.G.
F. T. BRIDGES, General Manager.
F. F. McBRYDE, Assistant General Manager.
A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A., Secretary.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary.
A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, A.1.A., Manager for N. S. Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT ST., SYDNEY
Offices in the Capital and Leading Country Cities of the Commonwealth
ahd New Zealand, and field representatives in all Districts.
5
a
to
The McCallum
Label of Distinction
The Label seals the rib-
bon and the ribbon seals
the Cup, ensuring the
Whisky reaching you as
it leaves us in
" perfect " condition.
ocCalLums0 c CaILums
(BV Scots Cilhisl^
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney . Melbourne. and BmW.
riRRS BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide. LIONEL SAMSON & SUN, tremanu
GIBBS, BKIGH & , McFARLA jsj E BRO S.. Hobart.
GM.3.b.


Kirby, Beard & Co., Ltd.,
Birmingham, London,
Redditch and Paris.
Whatever the growth, there’s
no beard that can resist a
KIRBY BEARD RAZOR
BLADE. Made of a special
steel, with extra
keen edges that
last and give a
wonderfully clean,
unequalled shave.
From Stores, Chemists
and Hairdressers.
Australian Agent:
H. E. UTTLEY, Margaret House,
282 George Street, Sydney.
Be sure you ask for
<r
SAFETY razor blades
i
■w
V
i
. ond P lcaS ?w cost
satis^«°" p o t uon ®% ot
oi att p ! giit ate „„ choose a
t you l SiVien v 0 ha s
*£
\Sun«.
tod ot c *ybody.
bV^ C nrs to pVe y accept^
colQ en a it
e eveiy-
*•*
vati et V, ot , c
*» -* ‘ M •
WSS
tfH*
. vc» fro«*
“S^^ 8 - s^aN s ’
ING f
" Fyne-Poynt ” Pencils from 7/6
Self-Filling “Blackbird” Pens from 9/-
Of Stationers and Jewellers
Illustrated Catalogue post free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
Swan House, London, W.i.
Factories : London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depot:
PHIPSON COMPANY, LTD.,
i-Si, Clarence Street, Sydney.'
‘Fyne-Poynt
Pencil
320/1
15 1-
©(A.)
Poverty
Point
‘Craiser”: Melbourne Tivoli lately pro-
vided a cosmopolitan freak in a Spanish
sketch which was genuine Andalusian in
every particular— except that the dancers
were Australian and the Castilian toreador
was a Russian who sang in Italian.
"The Listening-Insect”: From being a
humble handmaiden of the arts wireless has
now become a patron. The 8.8. C. in Eng-
land has arranged with sundry Covent
Garden artists to subsidise with £30,000 a
series of 200 performances of grand opera
p.a., and 60 of them will be broadcast. The
artists will mainly be British, and there are
hopes that Sir Thomas Beecham will con-
duct, unless he flies off the handle over
something in the meantime.
.“Craiser”: For its revival of “The Ciuga-
Jee at Melbourne Royal, the Firm advertised
lor a regiment of girls who are natives of
Ceylon. .T.C.W.’s knowledge of the emerald
1 ii 2 i S P l '°t ) nbly confined to the words of the
well-known hymn, since none of the dozen
or so principal races of Ceylon was desig-
nated. However, the theatrical union inter-
vened on behalf of the white or burnt-cork
Australia principle and demanded the employ-
ment of feminine members of its organisation
with faces blackened. The Firm was glad to
back down, as the chance of finding in Mel-
bourne Cingalese with the necessary qualifi-
cations is about as remote as Wyndham.
"O. P. Queue”: George Portus, of happy
memory, was responsible for the christening
of the Tafts —John, Frank, Nevin, Charles
and E.J. He called them Meditate, Irri-
tate, Hesitate, Cogitate and Agitate—but
not necessarily in the order named.
“Dinn-Dinn”: The theatrical game is the
one business pastime those engaged in it.
know least about. For the past 12 months
ic has been argued by the filmoguls and
admitted by the stage serangs that the talkies
had once and for all settled the hash of legi-
timate musical comedy anywhere except in
centres as big as Sydney and Melbourne.
J.C.W., Ltd., at a loose end with “The New
Moon”-“Belle of New York” co., sent
it to Brisbane, and it played to capacity at
every performance, while the talkies grate-
fully accepted the overflow.
“Tanah Pisang”: Amongst the very few
comedians whose humor really seems native
to them i§ Hector St. Clair, recently restored
to the Tivoli circuit by Hugh D. He gives
an effect of spontaneity even to such popu-
lar items as the story of the Melbourne man
who followed a girl for three miles through
a fog before he discovered she was a Gordon
Highlander. When St. Clair had a “shop” with
MeCallum in the old Cremorne in Brisbane
a decade or so ago he dropped into Rowe’s
Cafe, then featuring the De Vesey Girls,
two musicians of Chinese extraction who
played the violin and piano. The comedian
took the violin from one of the pair, and
brought the cafe down. He repeated the
offence on several following afternoons, with
the result that he packed the cafe so much,
to the detriment of the theatre, that Mc-
Callum had to restrain his exuberant em-
ployee.
“Bassoon”: “Shoot, Darn Yuli” manages
to collect a fine wreath of inaccuracies in
a few lines in his, “Poverty Point” par. about
the projected filming of “Redheap” (B.
12/11/’3O). Norman Lindsay, apart from
casting an eye over it, has not concerned
himself with the actual scenario, which has
been written by a Sydney journalist. The
film will certainly not be issued under an
‘assumed name”—why should it? Nor will
everything that “shocked the censors” be
excised. This would be to ignore the whole
point of Lindsay’s contention, which was
that the censors, if reasonably cultured,
should not have been shocked at all. “Shoot,
Darn Yuh’s” remarks about the book itself
serve merely to reveal the fact that he
cannot have been within a hundred yards of
even a smuggled copy. “Redheap” would
not be a “tame and ordinary” story without
its sex-interest, for the simple reason that
it depends mainly, on humor, not sex. Nor
is the book notably conspicuous for its
“courageous attitude towards aspects of Aus-
tralian life which no previous author has had
the pluck to touch on.” As a matter of fact,
“Redheap” has no “courageous aspect”
towards anything. It has no mission, and
certainly no message, as the resounding
phrases quoted would suggest. It merely
states in simple words certain obvious facts.
“Shaddershows”: English producers are
hard put to it when they have to go back
to T. W. Robertson’s “Caste” for a subject
for a talkie. The bromide is. in its way, a
sort of classic. Playgoers of 60 years ago
regarded it as a sordid piece of realism, so
violently did it run counter to prevailing
conventions. To the modern theatregoer it
appears about as realistic as “East Lynne.”
“Caste” was done in Melbourne by the enter-
prising Beresford Fowler a couple of years
ago, officers of the army in the Crimea
appearing in Gallipoli uniforms.
“Shoot, Darn Yuh” : The triumph of the
movies is only a matter of simple arithmetic.
Take Chaplin’s forthcoming talkie “City
Lights.” The company ha>s already brought
out its budget, and with far more confidence
in it realising the estimate than an Aus-
tralian Treasurer could ever have. The gross
takings in the United States are calculated
at £BOO,OOO, in Great Britain at £400,000, and
in the rest of the world at £300,000. The pic-
ture will be released to exhibitors on the
basis of 50 per cent, of the gross takings
in any theatre. Compare this with a new
musical comedy or nlay in London The
initial cost is probably not far short of the
cost of the Chaplin film, despite the claims
made by producers to the contrary: No
matter whom the piece is by or who plays in
it, it may be lucky to run three weeks, or
three days even. Even if it is a success it
has not a potential audience of Frenchmen,
Germans, Turks, Hottentots and Fishskin
Tartars, as the Charley has.
“Pan”: South-street, Ballarat, is contem-
plating an Australian grand-opera competi-
tion, winners to be performed at a concert
during the height of next year’s season. Con-
ditions have not been decided on, so it is
unknown whether an all-Australian subject,
with choruses of razor gangsters, will be
obligatory. Victoria is sown thick with
grand-opera composers. Fritz Hart has
written 13, most of which have remained in
manuscript, though one was produced in
full dress at His Majesty’s by Williamson’s
imported company; and Mona Mcßurney has
seen her “The Dalmatian” done at the Play-
house.
The Palette,
F.S. ; The Robinson collection of Old
Masters on which the South Africans have
been gazing is valued at half a million. It
includes ten Gainsboroughs, two Rembrandts,
a -j ra Angehco and an Andrea del Sarto, be-
sides four by Reynolds. This beats even Vic-
toria’s Felton Bequest, and there will be
no occasion for squabbling about the genuine-
ness of the collection or the judgment of the
selector.
The vast canvases of Granville Dunstan
at Melbourne Athenaeum suggest an ambi-
tion to soar with the unaided instrumen-
tality of the shoulder-blades. In all this
welter of painted females, seas, ships and
ranges of mountains, direct observation i.s
conspicuous by its absence. The nude studies
are demonstrations of how flesh can be made
to look like almost everything but flesh.
“Lao-dah”: One family which offered a
picture to the loan collection at Melbourne
Town Hall in aid of the Lud Mayor’s fund
is sadder and wiser. Its contribution was
to have been an old master of the Dutch
school, acquired in London by the head of
the house under conditions of irreproachable
good faith and for a thumping price. His
astonishment was great when he discovered
that another collector had put in a picture
attributed to the same master and appa-
rently a . replica. What was worse, the
second picture was the better painted of
the two, as even a member of the Felton I
Bequest committee could see. And it was
lankly marked as a copy by an artist
unknown.
“F.S.”: Whatever the midget (or miget)
soft craze lias done in Melbourne it has
been no assistance to art. None of the
courses I have seen has availed itself of
the services of a painter who understood the
issues involved. What the proprietors re-
quired, presumably, was to have their walls
painted so as to convey to the citizen the
illusion that he was putting and divoting
m .the midst of Nature. The conventional
painters who were given the job have mainly
gained their experience in the field of stage
scenery, where .artificiality is the rule. The
result is that one is mentally butting one’s
head tip against a tree that is supposed to
ne lou yards away, or stumbling over a
range of mountains which has somehow got
mixed up with the immediate foreground.
It was a great chance for a realistic painter,
but none such was offered it.
• Fal ? or V an artist subject to soar-
ing flights of the imagination, burst into
the pedestrian stream of Melbourne art at
the Sedon Galleries lately. He specialises
m large allegorical pictures, in which the
nude female form figures as “Truth,” Illu-
Inspiration” and the like. “Lot’s
\\ rte shows that lady being turned into the
very best brand of table salt. Artistically
the show, is neglible, though the elements of
good design are present in No. 13, “Day-
break.’ ,r
A most disarming feature of the exhibition
of pictures by the Society of Women Painters
«.t the gallery in Queen Victoria Markets,
Sydney, is the prices. The most elaborate
pieces in the show can be bought for ten
guineas, and the average is nearer 63s. Mostly
water-colors, and mostly land- or sea-scapes,
these .paintings are, in general, conventional,
conscientious and pleasant. Essays a little
out of the ordinary are A. Zimmerdahl’s
Russian Steps,” a decorative design in tri-
angles; M. Mallison’s “Chinese Girl,” and
some nicely pencilled heads by V. Bowring.
“O. McKay M.”: A bright effort at rais-
es wind is the expedient of two or
three Melbourne painters, who are collect-
ing promises from art-patrons to buy a pic-
ture each per annum at a fixed price. Tin
sparseness of pictures marked with the little
red label has been ■ the most distinctive
feature of the many exhibitions which Mel-
bourne has been treated to in the last couple
of months. The Loan Exhibition of old
masters and old crocks at the local Town
Hall has been raking in £200 a day for
charity, but the new masters can’t raise
even the studio rent. The position is aggra-
vated by the dying out of the class of en-
lightened pawnbroker, who used to take a
gamble on the verdict of posterity.
The Inky Way.
“Cauboy”: The “Woman’s Mirror” is be-
ginning to take its place alongside The
Bulletin on the Australian stage. The
latest occasion on which X heard it men-
tioned on the business side of the footlights
was in a comedy sketch by Gaston Mervale
and Co. at Melbourne Tivoli. Certainly the
scene was laid in the Italian Riviera, but
little things like that don’t matter at the
Tiv.
“N.Q.”: P. R. Stephensen, that redoubt-
able young Australian-Oxford publisher, is to
bring out a new weekly in Fleet-street It
will probably be called the “Free Voice,”
and that will be its nature—-independent, out-
spoken, satirical. As someone said, its basis
will be similar to that of The Bulletin.
During the past year, Stephensen published
a series of books in the distinctive Mandrake
Press, including Jack McLafen’s striking
long-short story, “A Diver. Went Down.” and
his own collection of Queensland sketches.
The Bushwhackers.” With Jack Lindsay,
of the Fanfrolico Press, and Eric Partridge,
of the Scholartis Press, Stephensen makes
the third young Australian publisher in con-
temporary London.


Bank of New Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund and Undivided
Profits
£6,858,113
4,173,156
£11,031,269
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World. Every description of Banking Business
conducted.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COILINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. . • • • 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
' £3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.O.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
y 1
.THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
600 INCREASE
In one month
in one city alone!
Established
Vs.
1846.
®he Brisbane (Courier
Is increasing its leadership in all parts of
Queensland—the public support extended
to the State’s oldest and most influential
newspaper is growing greater each month.
News and features from the Courier do
not now appear in any country newspaper,
and country residents are therefore
demanding The Brisbane Courier more
insistently than ever before.
So if you want Queenslanders to buy
YOUR goods the quickest and most
effective way to reach the largest number
of prospective purchasers is to advertise in
3Che Brisbane (ffourier
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F 3906,
London Agent: H. C. GRELLIER, 173
Fleet-street.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
’Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street. Melbourne.
HAWAI I
Tim iis
SIU NNIEIR
DEED CQ|\
Hi
SWT
SOTS
k
3A >
iM
NIAGARA
AORANGI
Hawaii. .Waikiki Beach, .picturesque
people, .festivals, .sunshine and palms
...Queen Island of the South Seas,
Hawaii draws visitors from every land.
fa ' Jfflm
Canadian Australasian
EXCURSIONS
Hawaii, Via »4iu> Zealand and Sui/a.
Book with Union Steam Ship Company,
Sydney—Melbourne.
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co., Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
Sailing December 11, January 8, February 5
gl
&r
Sunny South Seas
Enchanting Trip to PAPUA via BRIS-
BANE, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS, and
the glorious WHITSUNDAY PASSAGE
inside the renowned Great Barrier Reef.
Smooth Water —Sandy Beaches—T ro p ic a l
Scenery—Volcanic and Coral Islands—Quaint
Native Villages and Customs —Rest, Change
and Variety.
THREE WEEKS* TOUR.
Fare, £4O to £44, Return.
Apply for Pamphlet No. 52/P to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD,,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and
ADELAIDE.
Read “B.P. Magazine,” richly
illustrated in color.
1/- Copy, All Newsagents.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1811
Witb which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
£2%
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150.000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1 9 2»> £®M° 6 > 297 -
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DA\ IDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
588 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign il.s Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,P00,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP - - £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
DtVCctOt'S •
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lS Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other paits
the world.
*ll Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted. _
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Huddart Parker L'^ 1
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITHD
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
KE
ISE
IN CANADAS ROCKIES
TVTATURE’S masterpiece set
' like a rare jewel—show place
of Canada’s Rockies. Here the
world’s smart and great come
for rest and a hundred pleasures.
On your way to Europe stay at
the famous C.P.R. Chateau Lake
Louise —swim —ride—climb to
the sky dance to wonderful
music. C. P. R. service too.
Literature on request.
đ
CANADIAN PACIFIC,
247 George Street,
Sydney.
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
7/ic Worlds Greatest travel System
ś
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
dsd
ON SALE AT
ALL
NEWSAGENTS
EACH WEEK.
Subjects Weekly-
ALSO COLORED PICTURES
WORTH FRAMING.
“The Australasian”
The Paper all Australians appreci-
ate, and their friends overseas, too!
fniRFCT MEDIUMTg WOMENL
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
TZhe Dominion.
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New 1 Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion' is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—-
P.O. BOX 1481. WELLINGTON.
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from —
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.


MUTUAL
&
ANVrt#°2
The Mutual Life & Citizens’
Assurance Company, Ltd.
With which is incorporated the business of the
Citizens’ Life Assurance Company, Ltd.
Mutual Life Association of Australasia.
Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society, Ltd.
Principal Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, PERTH,
HOBART, WELLINGTON, MONTREAL and LONDON.
TRUSTEES,
JOHN DONALDSON, A.1.A., Melbourne.
The Hon. Sir JOSEPH H. CARRUTHERS,
K.C.M.G., LL.D., M.L.0., Sydney.
The Hon. Sir HENRY BRADDON, K.8.E.,
M.L.C., Sydney.
Rt. Hon. W. A. WATT. P.C., Melbourne.
J. B. EGGLESTON, Melbourne.
WALTER. FELL, M.D. (Oxon),
(London), Wellington, N.Z.
Sir NICHOLAS LOCKYER. C.8.E.,
Melbourne.
M.R.C.S.
1.5.0.,
BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
ARTHUR EEDY, Managing Director.
W. J. BLOOMFIELD, 8.A., LL.B.
The Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C., Chairman.
JAMES KELL.
Items of Interest from the Forty-third Annual Report:—
The total income of the Company was .... £2,925,486
(An increase of £82,122 for the year.)
The assets at 31/12/1929 amounted to £19,363,198
(Of which £16,177,302, or 83 per cent, was
represented by Public Securities.)
The payments to Policy-holders were £1,548,788
The amount paid to Policy-holders since the incep-
tion of the Company was £21,456,657
At the end of the year there were in force 316,719
policies assuring £53,837,166
ORDINARY BRANCH.
The new assurances amounted to . . £4,526,696
Surplus (for one year) £693,145
SWOLLEN JOINTS
That’s kidney
trouble
f
/. | • ■ > f :;
§iJ| :
Cr
Invaluable in all cases of
RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA
BACKACHE, LUMBAGO
PAINS IN THE JOINTS
and all forms of Kidney
and Bladder Trouble
Start taking
De Witt's Kidney and
Bladder Pills NOW.
Your day’s work will
be a pleasure and your
spare time pleasures
will be doubled. No
more sallow, spotted
complexions, no more
sleepless nights, no more
chronic pains in the
joints and muscles, no
more agonising stabs
in the back. Try just
one bottle of De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder
Pills and prove this in
your own case. You
will never regret it.
If you are tortured by the daily misery of dreadful rheumatic pains,
chronic pain at night-time when trying to rest, if you find limbs and joints
swollen, knuckles becoming perhaps too hard to move—that is, if your blood
is being poisoned with excess of uric acid, this doctor-recommended remedy
will end your pain and suffering and bring back youthful vigour and vitality.
For over 40 years De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills have proved infallible
in the relief of rheumatic conditions. They give instant relief, and their
effect can be seen in 24 hours. This we guarantee.
RHEUMATISM
with its terribly agonising day and night pain will be a thing of the past.
Backache, sciatica, and all the sure signs of kidney trouble will be quickly
banished, never to return, if you will give this remedy a trial. A short
course with De Witt’s Pills, thousands of one-time sufferers will tell you,
will quickly rid your system of pain-giving poisons and make you splendidly
fit and well.
Remember, you purchase your supply of De Witt’s Pills on satisfaction
or money-back conditions. Every chemist stocks De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills at 3/6. Take two of the pills when you go to bed —in the
morning you will see and feel their wonderful effect. Persevere, and you
will end crippling pains for good. Do not let rheumatism make your life a
misery, get your supply of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills now. There
is no need to waste money on unknown preparations, dangerous and heart-
exciting drugs. Go to your chemist and ask his personal opinion of DeWitt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills—the remedy with the prescription printed on the
box. He knows all the ingredients and can tell you they have been combined
specially for the purpose of driving from the body pain-giving poisons, and
to build up vigour, health and vitality.
A \ A v U i J
V\\ v \ vVi 1 1 j i / ////// // // -
PeWITTS
QV| D).lg> E?
SHADOW SHOWS.
Two recent Sydney pre-views indicated the
Pace at; which the British are overhauling
ie Americans in the race for talkie supre-
macy. “Young Woodley,” at the State, proved
nioie convincing as a film than it was as a
I'f?' Tim mi st y art t ke photographer
of K? ! ° ok like b °ys; in the glare
t the footlights they looked what they were
eu 1 ," - b °ys’ clothing. Frank Lawton
, ; i Ctual ; v ( ?,° immature to be altogether
ptcasant as \\ oodley. Madeleine Carroll plays
® W £ ak ’ kind-hearted, over-sexed wife with
" p „ art; it is doubtful if a national of
y °2 G }' Country could have performed her
teat of turning the pathological Mrs. Sim-
10ns into a sympathetic, even moral, char-
acter. Simmons is the weak point in the
;~i 'f he , was : \ n the Play- No one so
liiesolute and violent could have reached
a headniustership in a great modern school.
1 u-i ? m Livesay makes us believe in him
while be is on the screen.
* * *
, Old English, which this critic saw for
the first time at the Prince Edward, is an
adaptation of “The Stoic.” It will appeal
more to those who aren’t familiar with Gals-
worthy s story than to those who are. George
Arliss portrays old Hey thorp—the octo-
genarian shipping magnate with the “mas-
sive bead, the “thick lips, white moustache
mid square, thick trunk of a body”—and in
the nature of things looks nothing like him.
' . 1S spiritually as well as physically han-
dicapped; he can suggest subtlety and craft,
but dogged, bulldog pluck is foreign to his
temperament. In any case the old gentle-
man s end is less inspiring to watch than
it was to read about. One had an uneasy
feeling, for all Galsworthy’s art, that he
was a disgusting old ruffian, and the spec-
tacle of him gluttonising himself to death
confirms it. However, no praise can be
too high for the polished acting of Arliss,
and he has surrounded himself with a mag-
nificent cast. Galsworthy’s dialogue is bril-
liant. and the Liverpool of 35 years ago
Jives again in a fine series of pictures.
# ¥ *
Two famous wild-life films came to Syd-
uey last week —Fox Movietone’s “Simba”
(the Regent) _ and “Africa Speaks” (the
. “Simba” is splendid propaganda
tor the *Be Kind to Animals” movement.
Aot a single creature is murdered in it; all
the shooting is done by camera. Every schooi
should be taken to see this picture, if only
to give children an idea of the complicated
social problems animals have to solve.
. * .ion,” the book by Martin Johnson and
his wife, Osa, of which “Simba” is an ampli-
fication, was nothing to enthuse about; but
tue film, is a marvel. The area covered is
British East Africa, Tanganyika and
Southern Abyssinia. The Johnsons had a
very comfortable Base H.Q. from which,
during their four years’ tenancy, they
radiated for as much as 1000 miles at a time
to every point of the compass. Over each
tract of country traversed they “shot” in-
credible numbers and varieties' of birds and
animals. The telephoto lens brings one within
yards of the shyest creatures—wildebeest,
the rare black antelope, giraffes, Grant's
gazelle, impalla, and other almost mythical
forms of fur and feather, all in a state of
Dature, and in such profusion as would leave
the richest Australian sheep or cattle station
a barren waste by comparison. Frequently
the land is literally covered with life. The
“rule of law” is observed with edifying
loyalty.- For example, the zebras must drink
last. One sees the herds waiting their turn,
and not a bolshie among them, though every
zebra present has been without water for
three days—the three-days’ interval between
drinks being also part of their law. The
photography is superb, artistically as well
as realistically, but the sound effects are
poor, and the irrelevant musical accompani-
ment is a source of irritation.
* # *
“Africa Speaks” is along the same lines,
but though more pretentious it is not nearly
so satisfactory. Its most striking feature is
the devastation caused by a locust swarm—
a phenomenon which has been dealt with
in the Bible, and in modern times in a series
of Privy Council cases known to lawyers as
the “locust cases.” There are also some
weird pictures of pygmies, and some beauti-
ful ones of flaaningoes. A jarring note is
introduced at the end in the form of a lion
hunt, in which a native is used as a bait.
One sees him seized and mangled, and hears
his shrieks. The makers of “Africa Speaks”
travelled from Lagos on the West Coast, to
the Indian Ocean, covered 14,000 miles and
spent 14 months lit work. The back-chat in
which the two principals engage from one
end of the dark continent to the other is
even more painful than the trite music of
the other picture. They specialise in Yankee
wise-cracks, and no form of humor could
be more inappropriate in the circumstances.
* * *
“Canaries Sometimes Sing,” previewed at
Melbourne Majestic last week, is a talkie
version of Frederick Lonsdale’s latest comedy,
and if we are never to see a Lonsdale comedy
done in the flesh again, we have an excellent
substitute in this British and Dominions
Films’ rendering. In its own class as good
as “Rookery Nook,” it is wittier and more
sophisticated. The theme, married incom-
patibility, has been used approximately
1,000,000 times before, but Lonsdale plays
his polished variations on it with inexhaust-
ible artistry. It has the same effect of spon-
taneity, even in its most artificial moments,
as all the best English comedy. The impres-
sion grows that the prqducers of the Cold
Land are beginning to take to heart the
advice of their late eminent fellow-country-
man William Shakspeare concerning the
advisability of Englishmen being English-
men. This advice is of more importance
than ever nowadays, owing to the burning
desire of most of the world, civilised and
uncivilised, to be like Wabash, 111.
There are only four people in the cast —
Tom Walls, Yvonne Arnaud, Cathleen Nes-
bitt and Athole Stewart—and they have all
been as carefully hand-picked for their par-
ticular purposes as a Dion Boucicault com-
pany used to be. Tom Walls is also the pro-
ducer, and an elegant job he lias made of it.


aa LEIPZIG SPRING U
P\ TRADE FAIR, 1931 F\
(GERMANY).
Incorporating Great Engineering Fair until March 11.
The Greatest Trade Exhibition in the World.
Despite the heavy and almost impossible Australian tariff legislation, Australian
business men and oversea buyers can profitably visit the 1931 Spring Fair at
German manufacturers have marked their goods at such prices as to make
all purchases at the Spring Fair sell at a profit.
This means that the middleman is eliminated, and you deal direct with the
manufacturer. ' 'im*'
The Great Spring Fair begins on MARCH 1, 1931.
INQUIRIES INVITED. All Official Data, Transport Concessions, Hotel Accom-
modation, Rail Service, etc., including Letters of Introduction, will be gladly
given—free of cost.
A uthorised Representatives:
LARS G. BRUNDAHL, C. N. KEPPEL,
121 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. Box 585 D, G.P.0., Melbourne, Vic.
(’Phones: 84006 and MW2201)
‘nvsana isianox j.n3lainh3aod
am %t> autnbuj
•nosai laununs papi aqi opqjng
3 9 1 8 H3 P 311^0113 - 1 sqi jo s}uauquioddi2 pire aoiAias aqj pire
aqe'q pioßjd ux Suiuiuiims pire Suiqsq ‘Supiaoq ‘SMaiA oiureioired
pjiapuoM Suipireuxuioo sjuiod a§i3}ireA o} sqpM. Xsi2a qireseajg
‘BZ 110 SI3M - 3In: J
reiaduia} umunxeui siauiums isb-j -guilds jo qjeaiq jaaMS aqj qi|A\
pajuaos si ire; ure;unoui poo aqi lauuuns aq} jnoqSnoiqj^
•euo*>;A ‘jjjbj ‘oje^ng
Illlllllllllllllllll!llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll!l!ll!llll l!l!lll!lll!llllllllllll!l!!lllllilillllllllllillll[)illli! 111111111111111 l Ollllllllllllllllll*
DNRHS SAVMIV SI H3WWHS
BREAK O'DAY
BY JOHN CRISP
Illustrations by Scorfield
Synopsis : Dan Digby, a giant of a
man, is transported to Tasmania for
smuggling. He escapes to the main-
land, is again in trouble, and is being
taken back to Adelaide. On the way
lie refuses to go any further, and is
chained to a tree. He is saved from
dingoes by Hawke and Hales, two
other fugitives. He takes command
of them, and formulates a scheme to
seize a cutter and sail to New Zealand,
He includes Sam Morgan, another
escapee, in the party. They get away
from the S. Australian coast safely,
though short of food and water; but
only Digby reaches New Zealand. _ He
soon starts trading and acquiring
land, and has had much success when
he meets and marries Margaret Cam-
eron. Bess is born, the mother dies, and
the girl grows up with her father at
Maxwelton. until she is sent to an Eng-
lish school, Allan Macalister, a young
Highland shepherd, had got work near
Maxwelton, and throws himself into
the Land League movement to have
the big estates cut up among small
settlers. He has a son, Malcolm
Ccesar, brought into the world with
great difficulty by an eccentric doctor
and Old Mother Deans. Allan’s em-
ployer is Sir Alfred Richmond, Bart.,
who has drifted into financial difficul-
ties, when he has an unexpected
visitor.
Chapter VIII.
A LADY to see you, sir,” announced
Mrs. Caggs, Sir Alfred’s house-
keeper.
Sir Alfred sat bolt upright in his chaii:
“God bless my soul, Mrs. Caggs, who is it?
A lady did you say?” , .
“It’s Miss Bess Digby, Sir Alfred, and
she says she’s rode all the way from Moana
an’ must see you at once. I’ve put her in
the small sitting-room, sir.”
“All right, Mrs. Caggs,” sighed Sir Alfred
rising wearily from his chair. “Tell her I
shall be with her in a moment.”-
Cogitating, he took a turn up and down
the room, then poured himself a stiff brandy.
What the devil did that strongminded,
managing woman want with him? He didn’t
owe her anything, as .far as. he knew, but
one could never be sure these times. He
didn’t feel equal to meeting anyone, least
of all the daughter of the old trader Dan
Digby, said to be the wealthiest woman in
the colony. Much good that was to him!
What the deuce did the woman want with
him? He hardly knew her. Met her twice
—or was it three times—at sheep sales. He
didn’t care for her. Too overpowering.
Still he must see her, of course. Demnition
take it! .
Trying to' look like a man who is master
of his fate, Sir Alfred stepped jauntily
enough through the door of the small sitting-
room and said, “Haw! Miss Digby, ’pon
my soul this is an honor, I’m sure.”
Sir Alfred’s welcoming speech almost died
on his lips when he saw his visitor seated
erect on a straight-back chair—Spartan like,
secure and absolute—with an air of unity
and permanency about her and the chair
which is achieved when related parts are
skilfully assembled. His dismay was not
lessened when he became aware of a pair
of grey, imperious eyes, that seemed to dis-
dain him from beneath their hooded lids;
the Caesarian nose; the firm lips that had
never pouted. Somehow there flashed
through his brain two lines:
And the raven, never flitting,
Still is sitting, still is sitting.
Without ado Bess Digby addressed her
host. “Sir Alfred Richmond.” A pause.
Then: “Why have you let all this go so
far? Why did you not come to me? To
be sure, I hardly expected you. Weaklings
cannot act. But I felt that it was going
to happen. I have come to save you. I
am the only person in-the country who can
save you. You and I must be married at
once!”
' Sir Alfred collapsed into an armchair.
Bess Digby sat rigid and calm, waiting for
him to speak. He struggled to assimilate
what had been said to him, but found him-
self wondering why the grandfather’s clock
that stood in the hall near the sitting-room
door should still carry on that interminable
tick-tock as if nothing had happened.
Then Bess Digby was speaking again. “I
said we must be married without delay.”
“Yes, yes, quite so. I mean”.... Sir
Alfred found himself stammering. “I’m
ruined you know, and—ah—really, I don’t
quite”'
“Stop!” Bess did not raise her voice.
Sir Alfred ceased to make sounds. In-
stead he goggled at her from the depths
of the armchair.
“Listen to me, Alfred Richmond. I know
what you are going to say as soon as you
can pull yourself together. . You are going
to tell me that you feel highly honored by
the proposal, and you are going tp tell
yourself that the red-headed daughter of the
ex-convict trader Dan Digby is an impudent
hussy for daring to suggest marriage with
Sir Alfred Richmond, Baronet. And I am
going to tell you that you can’t afford to
maintain that attitude. It’s all right for the:
titled rich, but the titled bankrupt must-
make a bargain.”
“Really, Miss”
“Please do not interrupt. This conversa-
tion must not drift. Let’s be fair and open
with each other. You’re the gilt. I’m the
gingerbread. You’ve got the one thing I
want; a title. I’ve got one thing you’ll
never have; sense. I’ve got another thing
you dearly love, but will never make:
money. So you see, I can give twice as
much as you. Without me you’re headed
for the home for decayed gentlemen.
You’re , going to become the least respected
of God’s creatures, a broken-down snob.
Now look at my case. I’m the owner of
three sheep-stations. I’m one of the largest
shareholders in the Moana Shipping Com-
pany. I draw interest as mortgagee from
more than thirty per cent, of the farms in
this county, to say nothing of my interest
in Moana. And I’m regarded by some of
your friends as the dirt beneath their feet.
They snub me because I am the daughter
of Dan Digby. Unless, of course, they
want something. Since I returned from
England life has been made as bitter as
gall for me. I want to have a place with
the best. I can get it with your title. I
want to have a say in the government of
this country. I think I’m entitled to that;
yet, without you I can do nothing. With-
out me you’ll go to the gutter. You can
make me and I can make you. As it is,
I’m a lonely woman despised by those I
should wish' to help, and sought after by
those I despise. I’ve never known what it
is to have a disinterested friend. When man
or woman meets me with a smile, I always
want to say, 'How much?’” She paused.
Then:
“Look at me, Alfred Richmond,” she
commanded. ■ ■ ■ r
Alfred, who appeared to be recovering his
poise, had risen from his chair and was
pacing the room. Bess now also rose, and
Alfred faced her. “Look at me!” she re-
peated. “Am I not a handsome woman?
Am I not as presentable as any woman in
this country, in fact, Alfred Richmond? I
have some education. The same as the
best families give their daughters in Eng-
land. I spent three years at Holystone, in
Kent. Alfred, I’ve had this in mind for a
long time, but there never was a propitious
moment till now. Don’t let us waste it,
I want to be Lady Richmond. I’ll manage
the finances. You’ll go into Parliament and
I’ll make you the foremost man in the
colony. Come now, speak up! What’s it
to be? I or the”
Sir Alfred raised his hand. Bess did not
finish the question, but permitted Sir Alfred
to lead her to the armchair. Then he
spoke, and there was much hesitation in
the manner of it.
“My dear Miss Digby, you take me at
a disadvantage. I really don’t know what
to say Look, my brow is damp with
trouble.”
Alfred touched his forehead with his hand,
and Bess saw the beads of sweat there, and
the pain that looked out of his eyes.
“I know that I’ve gone down,” faltered
Alfred. “I’m at the end of the tether-
bankrupt! You certainly can save me;
but there is something odious about mar-
riage to save one’s skin.”
“Rubbish, man!” interrupted Bess. “Aren’t
the nobility in the old country marrying
and giving in marriage every day to save
their skins? You know as well as I do,
Alfred, that the question ‘How much has
she got?’ always goes before ‘Who is she?’ ”
“Yes, yes, Miss Digby; no doubt, no
doubt. But, really, I’ve never thought of
marriage. I wouldn’t know how to treat
a wife. The fact is, I’m not a marrying
man. But you certainly have made me
think. I’ve not really ever taken a proper
interest in the station. I’m not in love
with the business. My interest is wholly in
my horses —and God knows they have cost
me a mint of money; how much I don’t
know! But I’m going to lose them, and
when that happens I don’t care much what
follows.”
“It never occurred to you, I suppose, to
clean up your stables?”
“How do you mean, Miss Digby—clean
up the stables?”
“I mean-: — Will you please drop the
‘Miss Digby’? I am Bess. I mean, did it
never occur to you to get rid of that
swindling trainer of yours, Comey McCabe,
and,that monkey-faced jockey, Billy Bush?
Everyone knows that McCabe has used
your horses to make a tidy little fortune
for himself. Everyone knows it but you.
Your manager, old Wiltshire, is all right.
None better in the country. Wiltshire
knows sheep and he’s a good manager; but
what’s the good of it when you pour more
than the station makes into the pockets
of bookmakers, a rogue trainer and a
crooked jockey arid all the hangers-on that
you keep about your stables?”
“Pardon me,” Sir Alfred spoke up, at
last showing some metal, “I cannot listen
to anything against the people I employ.
I have lost,-lost heavily, 'but that is the
risk of the game, and T blame no one but
myself. I cannot retrieve myself now. It’s
too late; and, as I said before, if my horses
have to go, then I care little what becomes
of everything else. You, I suppose, Miss
—well, Bess—detest the idea of racehorses!”
“My dear Alfred, when we are married
I shall give my special attention to your
blood stock. I shall expect you to teach
me all there is to know about it. We shall
breed from the best, and we’ll make the
stud-farm pay. We’ll win every important
race that this country provides, and we’ll
go to Australia to capture the Melbourne
Cup, and you can have”
Sir Alfred Richmond jumped to his feet,
and Bess never finished her sentence. He
took her hands in his and exclaimed with
boyish delight: “You really mean that? I
thought you were down on racing and all
kinds of sport! You’re just the woman I
want beside me. Bess, will you marry me?”
Bess looked into his face and smiled.
“My dear, you are a tactful man. I thank
you.”
And Alfred said “You mustn’t—l have the
better bargain. Permit me.” And he took
her in his arms and kissed her lips.
Chapter IX.
It is doubtful, after all, whether marriages
are made in Heaven, so many nice adjust-
ments and galling compromises being neces-
sary On earth to keep' the contract going.
Having in mind that the perfect union has
yet to be made, Sir Alfred and Lady Rich-
ixiond made no little success of theirs. Ihe
success lay in the fact of neither party mak-
ing any attempt to observe all the marriage
promises. What actually happened was that
Bess endowed Alfred with all her worldly
goods, and in return Alfred loved a little,
honored more, and obeyed greatly. Before
he was aware of it, he had become one
of the busiest men in the island; within two
years he was chairman of the county council
and nominated Parliamentary candidate for
the new electorate of Rewa-Rewa.
For her part, Bess paid her husband’s
debts, and discharged the encumbrances on
the Hermitage. The racing establishment
was severely pruned, and, although the
services of Corney McCabe were retained,
Lady Richmond gave him to understand
that, should he once give her cause to
suspect him, there would be an end of the
connection for ever.
Corney had defended himself when
brought to account, and asked Lady Rich-
mond to specify an occasion upon which
he had been guided by other dictates than
those of honesty.
“Very well, Corney McCabe,” her Lady-
ship had answered. “Is it not true that
you won a two-year-old race with a filly
that was three years old?”
“An’ how long ago would that be,
Ma’am?”
“The spring before last, McCabe.’
“Ma’am, have you any idea at all what
was the color of that horse i ”’
“What does that matter, McCabe? Did
you do what I say you did?”
“Would your Ladyship be rememberin’
the horse’s name?”
“The name was Fly by Night. Now, Mc-
Cabe, out with it. Was not Fly by Night
a three-year-old when she won the Breeders’
Plate?”
“Well, Ma’am, now you put it that way,
I’ll tell you this. There’s just a grain of
truth in what you’re saying.”
“Don’t exasperate me, McCabe. Is it
true or not?” .
“It is not, Ma’am. There is no truth m
it. And yet, one way of looking at it, it
might be said that it is sort of founded on
fact”
“Well, go on.”
“ ’Twas this way, Lady Richmond. Fly
by Night had the misfortune to be born
in July, an’, accordin’ to the rules of racin’,
she’d be two years old when she was but
one. year and a few days old. You see,
Ma’am, all racehorses become a year older
on the first day of every August. So that
if a foal is born on the last day of July,
it is a year old next day.”
“Yes, McCabe, I know all that.”
“Then your Ladyship will agree wid me
that I did the right thing.”
“Don’t talk nonsense! How do I know
what you did?”
“For the sake of Sir Alfred and the stud
that was badly in need of money, I kept
the filly’s birth dark till the fifth day of
August. Nobody knew of it but meself and
Billy Carson, the groom, an’ ’tis said he
gave the secret away, which is likely enough,
he being an Orangeman. ’Tis true for you
the filly won the Breeders’ Plate two years
later, whin by the rules she would be three
year old if I hadn’t done the right thing by
Sir Alfred an’ kept her hidden for a few
days before she was born. Your Ladyship
couldn’t have done more in my place!”
“And you call yourself an honest man,
McCabe?”
“What else could I do, Ma’am, wid not a
two-year-old in the place fit to start, an’ the
race one of the richest of the year, an’ the
stables an’ the stud going to pieces for the
want of a bit of money, an’ Sir Alfred
himself at his wits’ end? Your Ladyship
could have done no less. ’Tis said of me,"
the old man added, “that Corney McCabe
is as straight as any trainer in the country.”
“Well,” Lady Richmond chirruped, “un-
less you can get yourself much straighter
than that, you and the Hermitage horses
will part company. Go away now, and think
it over!”


THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY—Price 3d.
<r
free pattern
every week
The Paper you should first select in Queensland for any Advertising
Campaign is—
The “Daily Mail ”
BRISBANE
Results count, and in Queensland the "Daily Mail” is demon-
strating its supremacy in this respect every day. The “Daily Mail”
is one of Brisbane’s two morning papers, and although more than
50 years younger than its contemporary, its net circulation—
both city and country—has been proved by unaccepted challenge
to be greater than any other Queensland daily.
Rate Cards, Net Daily Circulation Certificate and Specimen Copies
from:—
Brisbane Daily Mail, Ltd.
Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
London: R. B. BRETT
and SON, 30-34 New
Bridge Street, E.C.4
With the advent of Bess, Alfred Rich-
mond's luck changed, and the Hermitage
began to pay its way, and with quiet insist-
ency his wife took advantage of every
opportunity to turn her husband’s thoughts
m the direction of public affairs. She led
him on to read the papers, and helped him
to understand the lines along which New
Zealand was developing. Theretofore it had
not occurred to Sir Alfred that the colony
possessed a public life of its own, or had
a ? _A s Pb'ation beyond the political policies
of Britain. His knowledge of English poli-
tics was equal to that of many others of
his class and period. He knew that when
Dizzy” was in power the country was all
right, and when “Dizzy” was out the coun-
try was going to the dogs. He was a Con-
servative, but had no sort of idea what the
term implied. Now Bess was urging him
to become intelligently interested in the
affairs of the world.
She had transformed the homestead from
bleak bachelor quarters to a home that
contained all the solid comforts so dear to
the hearts of “the Victorians.” Sir Alfred’s
den, which had sheltered but two books,
T" e Turf Guide” and “The Ailments of
the Horse,” emerged a well-appointed
library.
“Tell me, Alfred,” she asked, as they sat
before the library fire, “did you have many
books at Richmond Hall?”
(( “Indeed yes, my dear,” replied Alfred.
The Hall had quite a large library; but
what the books were I haven’t the remotest
idea.”
“And your father—did he read?”
“Well, he may, but I never caught him
at it. Perhaps he did it secretly—he was a
queer man in many ways. My mother, I
fancy, read a lot, knew by heart furlongs of
verse, and had met Byron and Words-
worth.”
“You didn’t take after your mother,
Alfred!”
“I’m afraid not, m’dear.”
Well,” said Bess, “we can repair some
of the damage. What you must try to
appreciate is that even the newspapers con-
tain things besides the turf notes. I’ve
noticed the sequence of your reading. Tell
me, my dear, is it not true that it runs
something like this—Nominations for the
City Cup and President’s Stakes. Accept-
ances for the City Cup and President’s
Stakes. Results of the City Cup and Presi-
dent’s Stakes?”
“Quite right, m’dear, quite right,” guff-
awed Alfred. “All except the results. I
never read the results; I’m always on the
course to watch them. Gad, m’dear, you
must remember I was brought up to believe
that sport was the only thing worth reading
about, unless, of course, one was going to
be a parson. We were taught there were
only two careers open to a fellow, the Army
and the Navy, with the Church as a sort of
consolation prize for the chap who was
unfit for the Army or the Navy. And, by
Jove, when I come to think of it, the best
way to be thought unfit was to be con-
stantly found with a book in your hands—
yes, that was certainly the road to the
parsonage. However, no Richmond was
ever a parson.”
“It proves, Alfred,” said Bess sententi-
ously, “what a wonderful country England
is—that she should be what she is in spite
of such families as the Richmonds and such
schools as Eton! But now the time has
arrived when you must make yourself
acquainted with what is going forward in
the country, and give the turf notes a rest.”
“My dear,” sighed Alfred, with wrinkled
brow, “I’m not interested in colonial poli-
tics. Really, I never know what they are
getting at, and besides”—■—
“Make up your mind,” interrupted Bess
—“from now on you are going to begin to
know, and I am going to help you. Re-
member this, sir, what we have we hold, or
we go under. The way to hold is to sit
with the powers, and thus be in a position
to safeguard your rights. As for under-
standing politics, there is precious little to
understand. As a baronet you belong to
the governing class, and we are among the
biggest landed proprietors in this countiy.
It is our duty to see that the rights of
property are not infringed. To appreciate
this fact, Alfred, is to understand the politics
of this country.”
“But, m’dear,” Alfred urged, “the law
would not permit anyone to interfere with
our”'
“Rubbish, man!” said Bess, snapping his
sentence like a carrot. “The law is what
Parliament makes it. Once let the Radicals
in and they’ll come down on us like a ton
of bricks.”
“Oh! Quite so, quite so!” consented
Alfred.
“Very well, then, Alfred,” concluded her
Ladyship. “Not later than to-morrow we
shall reply to the Premier, Sir John Roscoe.
We shall thank him for the confidence he
places in you, and say that you consent
to stand for the new electoral district of
Rewa-Rewa.”
“Very good, Bess,” agreed Alfred. “I’ll
take it on. And let’s hope I’ll not be the
weakest member in Wellington if I get in.”
“Well,” said Bess, thoughtfully, “you
couldn’t very well be weaker than the
Premier.”
Chapter X.
Sir Alfred Richmond, having been elected
unopposed for Rewa-Rewa, suddenly found
himself to be the most desirable person in
the county. The inhabitants sought him,
hat in hand, and they all wanted something.
They came from the hills and the flats and
the valley by the river, and their needs were
varied and large. Of deputations concern-
ing the route of a proposed railway there
appeared to be no end. From every point
of the compass they came and came again,
each one “an influential deputation,” to
point out to the member that, unless the
railway was laid through that part of the
county where the members of the deputa-
tion belonged, the country would receive
such a serious set back that the nefarious
What else could I do, Ma’am, wid not a two-year-old in the place fit to start, an ’ the race one of the richest of the year?’”
act would go down in histoi-y as one of the
most atrocious scandals of all time.
Sir Alfred promised to lay all the repre-
sentations made to him before the proper
authority, and expressed his non-committal
sympathy with every cause.
But presently he shed every vestige of his
political importance. The members of his
household were walking on tiptoes and
communicating with each other in whispers.
There was a strange woman there, tall,
soldierly and severe, who rasped out com-
mands that were obeyed at the double, and
seemed to regard him, from her lofty aloof-
ness, as a person who had committed a
blazing indiscretion. Dr. Neild was there,
refusing to have a drink, and holding him-
self as one who expects to be called on at
any moment to do his best. Sir Alfred
seemed unable to do anything but walk
uneasily about the place pestering people
with his eternal “Is everything going all
right?” He put it again and again to the
doctor and the servants and twice he
approached the soldierly person in com-
mand, though on each occasion he thought
better of it at the last moment. He walked
round the house and through the stables,
stepping gingerly, as one who walks on thin
ice, wondering what the end of it was going
to be. Presently he was in the garden, and,
coming suddenly face to face with the old
Scots gardener, was asking the invariable
“Is everything going all right?” At which
the old man slowly straightened himself
and weightily replied, “I can safely say, Sir
Alfred, that provided God Almighty has a
mind to withhold his pests, an’ doesna for-
bear to let the heavens open at the proper
time”.... The old man stopped, his lower
jaw swinging in astonishment as he saw Sir
Alfred tiptoeing towards the house. So he
bent again to his plants, muttering some-
thing uncomplimentary about “they that sit
in high places.”
Never in his life had Sir Alfred seen a
newly-born babe, until the large woman
produced to him his daughter. He looked
upon the tiny face, brown, wrinkled and
startlingly simian. He bore the blow with
commendable fortitude, and mutteringly
supposed that that sort of thing was the
result of marrying late in life. Overwrought
and tired he went gloomily to the side-
board and drank a stiff brandy and water.
Chapter XI.
Allan Macalister was of the stuff of which
reformers are made. What he felt for the
cause he had at heart was not mere enthu-
siasm, a state of heart acquiesced in and
controlled by the mind, but a passion that
consumed his heart and directed his mind.
It was not in his nature to be lukewarm
about anything. To Allan a thing was either
good or bad. It could not partake a little
of both qualities. Men and measures he
regarded in the same hard light. The spirit
of compromise was not in him. He was
impatient of criticism when the subject of
it was his ideas of land settlement, where-
fore his enemies had spoken of him as a
pig-headed ignoramus. He made for his
objectives by the shortest route, irrespective
of obstacles. There was nothing shallow
about him but something very narrow, if
deep.
Having experienced the poverty and dis-
tress that are the portion of a landless
people, who, debarred from being the very
life-force of their country, become a legion
of hope-abandoned men, of men who never
had a future, Allan Macalister saw in the
distribution of a country’s soil among its
people the first step towards contentment
and prosperity. Although he would not have
thought of the term in conjunction with
himself, the fact was that Macalister was
a man with a mission. His every day since
he landed in the colony had been colored
by his passionate desire to lay strong hands
on the system that governed the land tenure
of the new country.
His views were being talked of around
the countryside, and in the hotels and
streets of Maxwelton. He was known, too,
in the town of Moana, where many held
radical views; and not a few of them were
among the professional and intellectual class
whose first political desire was to bring
about the downfall of the Conservative
Government.
If Six 1 Alfred Richmond had heard of his
shepherd’s political aspirations, he gave no
sign of it. In any case it would not have
occurred to Sir Alfred that the political
views of an illiterate Highland shepherd
could ever be worth bothering about. Mac-
alister the shepherd he liked very well,
what little he had seen of him. He knew
from his manager that Macalister and his
wife were hard-working, decent people, and
that they hailed from the Highlands of
(Continued on page 59.)


V*''V'
wv - *?&$&
0 s'^^oo^V B ',
V #%
i>"'\ c<''*; ->'- ..,v>"~.
\\v e v# ,^°\,A
se **£ <«*!>&
«ss y
«J
.*^
*>
jpg?.
tv. . \
ms-s
V;
NOW
19
FIVE
FOR
new shaped holes allow
17°f 0 extra weight • heavier
two-edged blades that can
never pull or drag • buy
PROBAK BLADES
MADE AND GUARANTEED BY THE 'AUTOSTROP SAFETY RAZOR CO., LI D. f 197-207, CITY ROAD,
■\> \\ v .v\ \ LONDON,'ENG. / . _ .
Managing Agents for Australia : PHIPSON & COMPANY, 181 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
TRADE MARK
THIS new Winchester master-
piece, Model 54, adapting the
popular military bolt action to
big game sporting purposes, is
now made in .270 Win., .30
Govt. ’06., .30 Win. (JO-
JO), 7m/m and 7.65 m/m.
Strong. Simple. A de-
light to handle.
mu
liM
śd
Another
Winchester
Masterpiece
In every country the has
spoken with undisputed authority wherever
big game was to be bagged and unremitting
dependability was required. Dependa-
bility —positive action —accuracy and
power —these are the family
traits of Winchester big
game rifles. There’s a Win-
chester for every form of
big game shooting.
Look for the Winches-
ter Proof 'Mark ~ the
mark of master
guncraft.
WB
n
mm
MSIAY
tZOss
m
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN, CONN..U. S. A.
Always use Winchester Ammunition
-miWincKester Arms-they are made for each other Jf
«**4lm*i
Keeps Farm Wheels Moving
Reduce Operating Costs
—Eliminate Repair Bills
—and keep all machines used on the farm ready
for service at all times. Tractors working under
heavy strain need perfect lubrication to avoid
broken parts and burned out bear-
ings. Lorries carrying heavy loads ,
must be perfectly lubricated if they
are to carry on day after day and week
after week without repair bills. Petrol engines
used for pumping water sometimes have to
run 24 hours a day.
Often the grease in the ordinary grease cups
does not get into the bearing at all and friction is
immediately apparent. The ALEMITE Systems
of Lubrication insure perfect lubrication at all
times. It is not necessary to take the tractor, the
lorry or any other machine into town to have it
lubricated properly. Lubrication can be done on
the farm by your own men efficiently and econom-
ically with this “high pressure” method.
Full particulars from
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH
Resident Manager
250 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Or from the following representatives:
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
Motor Supplies, Ltd. ... . . . > • Brisbane
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., 894 Hay Street, Perth
E. A. Machin & Co., Ltd.
535 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
Cornell Limited, 122 Pirie St.,
Box G. P. O. 496, E. Adelaide
\ "V>
Cable Address: ALMIT-Chicaga
ALEMITE CORPORATION
Chicago, U. S. A.
K-AUS-8


INVINCIBLE
MARINE MOTORS
are stocked in
1 2 popular sizes:
2\ to 60 H.P.
“The World’s Best Since 1906”
All Spare Parts always available.
Write for 30-page illustrated
Catalogue.
Invincible Motors, Limited
Sydney Showrooms:
53 NORTH GEORGE STREET
(Near Harbor Bridge).
YOUR EYES
m
vii'is&S
The penalty of neglect may mean that cruel affliction—
or total blindness. When the eyes become tender,
the lids swollen or redness develops, apply ROSE’S EYE
LOl lON instantly. This will check the trouble and pre-
vent much pain and suffering. ROSE’S EYE LOTION is
outstanding in the treatment of all affections of the Eyes so
common in the hot arid parts of Australia, and - nothing could
be more safe for the Eyes of young children. Be on your
guard when purchasing. The so-called “just as good” is not as
good. Say you must have ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE
LOTION—the original and genuine.
Sold at all High-class Pharmacies and Stores.
Vt LOTION
American invents
NewAiito Petrol Saver
Walter Critchlow, 203 7-P Street, Wheaton,
111., U.S.A., has patented a Damp Air
Petrol Saver for all Autos.
This invention uses the moisture principle
that causes engines to run better in the
cool evening. New Fords report up to
40 miles on I gallon; old Fords up to
66 miles; other makes report up to Jth to
i gain.
There are 5 Models from $6.00 to $30.00,
with 100% to 400% profits to Agent.
Mr. Critchlow wants County, State and
General Agents everywhere to make
$250.00 to $1,000.00 a month.
Write him to-day. Ask for his 1 Free to
introduce offer.
Your Name . . .
Address ....
City
Nation . . , »
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
_ Up only Sib. for a meritorious win over
tne same distance at Rosehill on Oct. 29,
tjnii lt: i , 01 , lly third-raters to beat, Gay
Panama ioohed the best bet of the day at
i-Z re i le [ d , on Saturday. She was obviously
ut and had a good position at the barrier;
besides, Bartle was in the saddle. Her most
eh dent admirers would have been content to
take b to 4; in point of fact, she opened at
vr,.uV 2 , a !\ d drifted to 7to 2. Evidently
McShoitodds thought there was something
wiong, and he is usually a shrewd judge in
10 f e “tatters; but for once he was incor-
lect. lfie little mare waited on the leaders
until the straight was reached; then she
ran past them, to win comfortably from
k .• 11 recruit from the pony courses,
and Prince Verderer.
Gay Ballerina’s race was the first division
°v i, j Hying Handicap, and she accom-
plished the six furlongs in lmin. 151 sec.,
going easily at the finish. It took Tea Miss
(7 to 2) Imm. lfisec. to traverse the dis-
tance in the second division, and she couldn’t
have gone any faster—over the last furlong
at least, m which she just beat Gipsy’s Land.
Moorefield is the slowest of the suburban
tracks.
The, sex to which Gay Ballerina and Tea
Miss belong accounted for five of the nine
races. Rosebranch (Rosewing-—Brank), a
hily owned by newspaper-owner Hugh Deni-
son, and Valerie (Valais—Sibonga), a mare
raced by W, T. Kerr, captured the divisions
P lie ihree- and Four-year-old Handicap;
1U to 1 could be got about either. And the
Anzac Relief Handicap fell to Exact (Shil-
linglee—Accurate), a winner at Randwick a
fortnight before. A bump from Black Doug-
las, who is a big fellow, nearly settled her
chance, but the little chestnut mare pulled
herself together and came through in fine
style, ably assisted by Roy Marsden, an
improving apprentice. Black Douglas was a
close second, and Bosmina only a neck awa v
third. This was a good betting race—ll to
2 Black Douglas and Ohrissie Yet; 6 to 1
Exact, Stormy and Jeypore; 10 to 1 others.
The Carlton Mile was preceded by a
jockeys’ strike. Early in the day there were
-2 acceptors, and a deputation of boys pro-
tested that this was too many for such
a race on a course with sharp turns and a
history of bad smashes. Their feelings were
the same when three horses had been with-
drawn, and public sympathy was solidly on
tlieir side. Proceedings were held up for
nearly a quarter of an hour; then Walker,
the Randwick trainer, pulled out his horse
Dalston and the jockeys agreed to go on.
There was no accident, but the straggling
order in which the field finished suggested
that some of the riders had adopted safety-
first tactics. Mr. Whiz (5 to 1) won easily
from Just Gold (9 to 2) and an outsider,
Jack Rufus.
H 1 ❖ * He
For Warwick Farm to-day:—
Maiden Handicap: Achcullen.
Horsley Handicap; Golden Voice; next,
Pavilion.
Farm Handicap; Spearman; next, Lord
Kennaquhair.
Leumeah Handicap: Traymobile; next,
Magnetic.
Three-and Four-year-old Handicap: Valen-
tino ; next, Gleaner.
Gloriole may win the Ivirkham Stakes on
Satui-day, and Bawn-na-glas may be ready
to go off in the Moorebank Handicap. West-
ern Lass is working well, and the December
Handicap may suit her.
* * * #
A 10 p.c. tax on winning bets, to be col-
lected the bookmakers, is proposed in
N. .S. Wales. According to the “Labor
Daily” “the scheme is somewhat nebulous
at present, but there is every indication
that it will become law; if so it is expected
to yield at least £1,000,009 a year.” There is
good warrant for the tax, but it is not likely
to. produce a million or even half a million
unless the Government wages a war of ex-
termination on s.-p. joints.
* * # *
James Scobie, through the agency of
Temptation, landed his ninth Bendigo Cup
last week. Melbourne punters who wit-
nessed the achievement returned home to
find ill fortune awaiting them at the San-
down Park week-end fixture. Only one first
favorite caught the judge’s eye in seven
events, while two winners started at 12
to 1 each and others at 8 to 1, 7 to 1 and
6 to 1 respectively. McShortodds experi-
enced no trouble in balancing his budget.
Harry Connolly, brother of Erie, saddled up
Olina for the Hurdle Race, and this Flaviol
prad was punters’ first choice. Olina moved
lazily until the race was practically over
and finished a poor third. Sea War led
throughout, and won handsomely from Idle
Time, owned and trained by an elder brother
of Bob Lewis. Making his debut over the
battens, Salzach was marketable, but whipped
in the field.
Auto Pay followed up his victory at
Epsom a week before by annexing the Two-
year-old Handicap. Trainer Harry Freed-
man and his followers threw in for a sub-
stantial win, Auto Pay being backed from
3 to 1 to 5 to 4. The Maoriland-bred colt
continues to shift about in the early stages
of a race, but when the crisis arrives he
gallops like a potential sprint champion,
lor the second successive occasion, Jaeo-
malt had to be content with second, being
no match for the Tea Tray gelding. Ireson’s
Ride surprised by gaining third place He
is by Whittier, of whom Ben Chaffey was
fonder than' of Manfred or any of his other
galloping stars. Harry Telford was repre-
sented by Rondalina, a Beau Fils filly be-
longing to “F. Smitliden,” who has won
lately with La Justice and Old Ming in
Melbourne. The time has not yet arrived
tor Rondalina to earn her oats.
Star Warden, winner of the Sandown
Plate, belongs to E. M. Pearce, who leased
him to I. L. Foulsham, nephew of the
veteran “Ike,” of Randwick. With Port
Nelson (imp.) a hot favorite and Darpuna
and Garonwy solidly backed, Star Warden
hgured inconspicuously in the betting; yet
he managed to vanquish Darpuna by half
a neck. Byron bolted for a round of the
course, and ended up by unseating Wcnn,
who required casualty-room treatment. A
new jockey was obtained, and Byron ran
an excellent third.
Myles Connell, once at the top of the
tree as a jockey in Sydney, had hopes of
capturing the Sandown Park Handicap with
Lindbergh, an aptly-named son of Biplane.
A BIT EACH WAY.
SECOND: "Now you've got nothing to worry about-I just 'eard that 'e's backed you."
PUG: "Blime! Wot do I do now?-I'VE BACKED 'IM."
Less than five furlongs from home Lindbergh
fractured a leg and fell. He lay on Whittle
until ambulance men arrived and lifted Lind-
bergh off the apprentice jockey, who suffered
S » e w ei ’j 7 1 T njur . ies and was removed to the
Alfred Hospital. Favorite for the race was
fepcar Girl, who gave a miserable display.
Greencloth, owned in South Aus. by Mrs
L. W. Bennett but trained at Caulfield by
Harry Gabell, had the upper hand from the
time he deposed Gay Salute, and reached
the judge two lengths in advance of Reputed
King. Spang s defeat in the Bendigo Cup
was a blow to Adelaide turf followers, but
South Aus. supplied two place-getters in
the Sandown Park Handicap, Alfred the
Great being third. He is coming on.
The ’Bidgee River pastoralist D. E.
Murphy appropriated the Sandown Purse
with old Wambidgee, who, like Star Warden
in the Plate, was a 12 to 1 pop. Wambidgee
is trained by Burbidge, who races the steeple-
chaser Nightlark in conjunction with Murphy.
He was bred by A. T. Creswick, and is by
All Black (sire of Desert Gold) from Artil-
krie, a dual winner of the Caulfield Stakes
in years gone by. Vanese - (a pony) and
Cape Borda, the favorite, followed Wam-
bidgee home.
Divisions of the Trial Welter went to Cop-
pette and Prince Dayton. Former is trained
by Joe Bird, whose son-in-law, “Tich” Wil-
son, had the mount. Wilson has patched up
his quarrel with James Scobie, and rode for
the Pytchley Lodge proprietor at Bendigo,
winning on Temptation there. Duncan
handled Prince Dayton with exceptional
vigor, and lifted his admirers out of a finan-
cial hole by this last-race triumph.
* $ * *
For Moonee Valley on Saturday:—
Hurdle Race: Horoscope: next, Sir
Gleam.
Fund Handicap: Hellenist; next, Sar-
taress.
* * * *
“Hotham”; The V.R.C. has completed ail
the arrangements for the erection of the
Julius tote at Flemington, and the electric
cables, which cannot be made in Australia,
have been ordered in England. The makers
are busy on the tote machinery, and the
sites for the various buildings have been
laid out. With luck, it is hoped to have the
machines running by June next, or in time
for the Grand National at least.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Canadian Harry Marshall (0.2) won his
first fight in Australia when he outpointed
Tommy Crowle at Leichhardt Stadium last
Friday night. Crowle claims to be Common-
wealth featherweight champion, , but he
was 0.4 (four pounds above the feather
limit) when the pair weighed seven
hours before entering the ring, and
seemed too robust to be at liis best.
Marshall methodically retreated, meanwhile
popping left or right leads to the advancing
foe’s face for eight rounds. This speedy stuff
gave him a good lead until, answering clam-
orous calls from the boys out back, he did
some forcing. Crowle was outpointed in
almost all of the 15 rounds.
* * Hs SJ:
The fight between Jack Haines (11.41)
and Bernasconi (11.0) at Sydney Stadium
finished in funny fashion just before the
seventh round ended, and disgusted fol-
lowers of the game are wondering why Mus-
solini s countryman was ever brought here to
aisplay his scanty supply of boxing ability.
Bernasconi is big, strong and tough above
the neck. He is not so solid downstairs, and
Haines punished him about the body until a
lett, landing somewhere near the heart, upset
the European. Bernasconi seemed certain to
stay down for keeps, but he arose at “four ”
and jumping out of the ring, ran to his
dressing-room.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Clarence Weber, the Melbourne
physical-culture expert, was another victim
or the athlete’s occupational disease, heart
failure. A tall, fair man, with biceps like
cast iron, he was a noted boxer, wrestler
runner and gymnast in his youth He lost
the wrestling championship of Australia to
Meeske in 1926. AVhilc still in his prime—
lie was only 45- —he took to lecturing the
public on right living, right eating and phy-
sical fitness as the key to a long and happy
life. He was very prominent during the
annual health-week outbreaks, and gave his
addresses a smattering of medical profundi-
ties, but he never descended to the buffoon-
eries of the American big-muscle boys. One
of his attainments was the ability to breathe
with one lung at a time.
The Ins and Outs
Heavy scoring ruled in big cricket last
week-end. Against a strong Queensland bowl-
ing side at Brisbane, N.S.W. ran to 566
before dismissal. Kippax and Bill made a
good stand for the visitors. Kippax played a
classic innings for 158, while Bill moved
steadily along until abo. Gilbert dismissed
him for 153. The vastly improved McCabe
eclipsed both with a dazzling 161 at the
rate of over a run a minute. None of the
others did much, Gilbert finishing with 4 for
118, his victims including McCabe, Bill and
Love, while Hurwood also fulfilled expecta-
tions by taking 3 for 108. Queensland’s
fielding was again very poor. The home
team made a fine start, 3 for 256 (Gough
137 and Thompson 73 n. 0.).
* * # *
Against the .West Indies, at Melbourne,
V ictoria had a day out with the bat after
dismissing the visitors for 212, to which
Headley contributed a faultless 131. Con-
stantine again obliged with 34 —rather
restrained for him, since he was handicapped
with a ricked side, a’Beckett (4-51) and
Ironmonger (5-S7) once more demonstrated
the traditional trickiness of the M.C.C.
wicket before lunch. Sensation came when
Woodfull was bowled for a duck ■bv
Constantine’s third ball. Ponsford dug
in, however, and with Iligg changed
the complexion of the game. Pons-
ford was caught off slow-bowler Scott for
187, while Bigg, who is full of runs this
season, played pretty cricket for 126. At
stumps on the second day the total was 562
for 5 wickets, with lefthander Darling (65
n. 0.) and Barnett, the new wicket-keeper,
who has replaced Kllis (58 n. 0.), to resume
later. Constantine could bowl only two
overs and was sadly missed. He was in fine
form on Monday, winding up with 5 for 64,
the innings closed for 594.
:Jt }\; ;jc
“Buccra”: According to the members of
the West Indies- team the side now in Aus-
tralia is the second sent out to foreign parts
by the rum and sugar isles this year. The
other toured the United States some months
ago, playing 23 matches and losing only one.
Contrary to popular opinion, cricket is now
played regularly throughout the U.S.A., and
in organised competitions as well as sporadic
matches. The standard of the game has
improved considerably since the W.I. side
last visited Uncle Sam, and it is probable
that next season will see an American eleven,
the first of its kind, on tour through the
Islands.
* * * s|t
“Huon”: The Tasmanian representative
on the Australian selection committee, who
will fill the vacancy caused by the resigna-
tion of C. J. Eady, is T. D. Carroll, who
also represents the Apple Isle on the Board
of Control. Carroll has been closely con-
nected with the Speck’s cricket for many
years, captaining several Tasmanian teams.
He was a fine all-rounder, and had many
successes against Victoria and other States
with bat and ball.
* * if if
“Fitzcray”: It seems pretty certain that
Australian cricket will have to look for a
new captain after the end of this season,
Victorians in the know being convinced
that Woodfull will go out of the game for
keeps after that. The 'young man comes of
a clerical family, and is of a serious turn
of mind. Not everyone will agree with the
attitude that there are more important
things in life than the pursuit of cricket,
but the Australian skipper’s apparent inten-
tion to persist in regarding it as a game and
not a life obsession has much to recom-
mend it.
* * * *
“Bowen Bridge”: The latest Australian
cricket innovation is to be the formation of
a Board of Control to regulate inter-State
matches between the more or less misguided
girls who have taken to Maying the
game instead of studying the mystery of boil-
ing wmtcr without burning it. Queensland,
South Australia and Victoria now have their
State associations in addition to N.S.W., and
an inter-State series is threatened for
1931. I suppose nothing can be done about
it. but the prospect fills me with apprehen-
sion. Australia, which has had some experi-
ence of the old womanish methods of the’ he-
man Board of Control, cannot view with
equanimity the, advent of a flapper equiva-
lent.
(Continued on next page.)
Victoria retained the Grand Challenge Cup
for senior eights at H’enley-on-Yarra ; Mer-
cantile won from Sydney by half a length in
sm. 45., the result being almost a replica of
last year’s event wehen Sydney finished
second to Hawthorn. The Yarra Challenge
Cup and Sculls came back to N.S.W., J. A.
Goulding, of Sydney Club, winning easily
by four lengths from another Port Jackson
sculler, H. E. Ricketts, of Glebe. J. R.
Scott, of Haberfield, last year’s winner, did
not defend his title.


Gert ;'*Tke \nickst- keeper seem&
TO &£ A GREAT F/FVOURtTG.
e»ERT ‘"Yes, VERY GOOD CH£kP.”
MAKES HtW SO.
Popular
Bert "He's always e>wunq
FELLOW s OUT.Y
The Ins and Outs
Though beaten in their first match in Aus-
tralia, the West Indians gave their N.S.W.
opponents a good gallop, going down finally
by the moderate margin of four wickets.
They had little of the luck, for a couple
of decisions in favor of the batsmen, and
especially Fairfax, were very doubtful. With
20(3 to win Jackson and Bill made a good
start, hoisting 97 before Bill went for 34.
Jackson was in his best form for 62, but
with the dismissal of Bradman (22), Allsopp
and Oldfield things looked good for the
visitors. Fairiax somehow managed to sur-
vive the fast bowlers, though he had many
narrow squeaks, and finished with a most
unattractive not-out score of 32. McCabe,
a greatly improved batsman, on the other
hand piayed delightful cricket and ended
up with 37 n. 0., a clinking shot through the
covers for four winning the match.
* * * *
“ ’Badian”: Brief as was their stay in
Sydney, the West Indians made them-
selves very popular with the . crowd, which
was inclined to side with them against the
home team throughout the match. Their
fast bowling particularly appealed to the
local followers, who have not seen a genuine
speed merchant at work for many a long
day. Both Constantine and Francis, while
primarily fast bowlers, employ changes of
pace and mix their deliveries with consider-
able success, Constantine especially occa-
sionally sendingSdown a slower ball, which
was strangely reminiscent of that which the
late W. H. Lockwood exploited so well. St.
Hill is a really good fast-medium, while
Martin, a slou r but very accurate lefthander,
bowled excellently. The fielding of the team,
excellent in the opening stages, wilted as
the match went on, some of the men being
very slow in getting to the ball. This was
probably due to leg weariness after the first
day on a hard ground, with a long sea voyage
only a couple of days behind them.
:I: * *
“-Tenth Slip”: One of the things which
most interested those members of the West
Indies team who saw it is the elaborate
organisation of junior cricket in Sydney.
The sight of hundreds of teams hard at it
on Moore Park, Centennial Park, and dozens
of other grounds fairly took their breath
away. There certainly is nothing like it
elsewhere in the world.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: It is an unusual experience
for a player who has toured England without
being included in a Test side to find himseif
planted in one immediately on his return to
Australia, and that before he has figured in
important cricket at home. Queenslander
ITurwood is in that position, having
been included in the team for the first
match against the West Indies at Adelaide,
beginning December 12. He bowled most
successfully in Sheffield cricket last year,
but failed'to suit himself to conditions on
the other side. Neither Hornibrook nor
Oxenham was available among the Queens-
landers. but Hurwood will probably more
than justify his selection, for he has been
bowling splendidly in club cricket.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: The last day of the Syd-
ney match against the West Indies was
ruined for me by a braying ass who sat
behind and insisted on commenting to an
accomplice on the play, and matters in
general. Evidently ignorant of the game, he
asked the name of everyone doing anything
on the field, and as he was unable to dis-
tinguish between the umpires and Constan-
tine, even, he had to be re-instructed after
#verv stroke. He did, however, deliver him-
self "of one independent opinion. A couple
of overs before the finish, Ivippax, in street
clothes, ran out on the field to give McCabe
some instructions. Following the convention
always observed in such cases, both men
seemed to be examining McCabe’s bat. Then
my friend, deeply interested, had his brain
wave. “H'ar,” he said.; * is bat s outei
order. That cove in tlier civvies ’ll be ther
mercanick, er course.”
* * * *
“Dutoit’s Pan”: So far the outstanding
item of the English Eleven’s tour of South
Africa is the blossoming of a Greek googiy
bowler. It is not often that the descendants
of Aristides forsake the oyster-knife for
the cricket bat —the only instance the writer
can recall was one Bersi, who used to turn
out for Liverpool Club and Ground at Aig-
burth, but he was a Levantine merchant.
However, the new find is named. Balaskas,
and plays for East Griqualand, being a resi-
dent of Kimberley. The young man not only
took a bagful of wickets, but made S 3 m
E.G.’s first innings, so he must be a dis-
tinctly useful lot.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin” : There will be no challenge
for the Davis Cup from Australia this com-
ing year—just as well, perhaps, after the
unhappy showing our last two teams hni e
made. A spell is advisable to look tor new
material and build it up. The talent in
sight, with the exception, perhaps, of Hop-
man, is simply not worth persevering with.
The Australian officials have also fallen into
line with South Africa in asking that the
Davis Cup tourney be held every two years
instead of annually. At present three-
fourths of the Davis Cup entrants are duds
who only serve to encumber the tourney.
* * * *
“Kooyong”: The Australian tennis pan-
jandrums met in Melbourne last Week to con-
sider the question of shortening the proba-
tionary period which Anderson will have to
serve' before he can be readmitted to the ama-
teur fold. Under the rules of the International
Federation the whitewash cannot be applied
until after two years of abstention from
professional tennis. There is a proviso, how-
ever, that affiliated bodies, such as the Aus-
tralian, may vary this rule if circumstances
warrant. Anderson’s supporters asked that
the probationary period be reduced to three
months, but the decision was'for two years.
This attitude is ridiculous enough in itself,
but it is made a dozen times worse by the
fact that players whom the association
blandly chooses to regard as amateurs re-
peatedly infringe the laws of amateurism.
“Torrens”: South Australian tennis circles
are again being torn into segments over the
perennial question of falling into line with
the other sporting bodies in the State in
the matter of representative colors. Every
other State in the Commonwealth has a uni-
form “color” for its sport representatives—
maroon for Queensland, royal blue for N. b.
Wales, Oxford blue for Victoria, and so on.
The South Australian cricketers sport one
of the handsomest blazers in Australia
scarlet, gold and blue —and some time ago
the S.A. tennis mob determined to adopt
this. However, the color scheme does not
seem to appeal to many of the members of
the tennis sex, possibly because individual
members feel it will clash with their com-
plexions. and the matter is to be reconsiu-
ered. There is a great deal of feminism in
tennis, and this probably accounts for the
objection to wearing the same color as the
cat next door.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: One of the complaints levelled
at South Australian tennis is that there is
altogether too much old blood about it;
championships for a long time past have
been going to the same old set, while even
Turnbull, acclaimed as a rising juvenile for
several years, can now be fairly rated as a
seasoned player. However, a new star has
swum into the Adelaidean ken in Adrian
Quist, son of Karl Quist, who once figured
for South Australia in Sheffield cricket. The
youngster, still in the junior ranks, _ beat
some of the State’s best in the S.A. singles
championships before being outed, and with
another new hand in Harvey won the
doubles.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Ford” : The laugh was on someone when
a hole-in-one player celebrated the occasion
in a N.S.W. country golf club the other day.
The individual chosen to return thanks was
a professor of languages, and he made a con-
gratulatory speech of half-an-hour’s duration
in French. The jest was capped when the
eongratulatee, who was born and brought up
in the Maoriland King Country, replied
no less fervidly, and at even greater length,
in Maori —at ieast, he said it was, and even
the professor of languages was unable to
check the accuracy of the statement.
* * * *
“Divot Digger” : Who says golf is a young
man’s game? Playing in the annual vet-
erans’ handicap at Cammeray (N.S.W.)
links G. A. Janies, who owns to 63 summers,
won with a round of 83. With a 24 handi-
cap, this made his net score 59 for a course
bogeyed at 68 —and the feat was performed
on one of the most boisterous days Sydney
has seen for a long time.
* * * *
“Bawl”: The miniature golf craze has
taken so many forms in Sydney that one
is becoming hardened to any possible hap-
pening. Still, I confess I was shaken during
my beer hour the other 'day to be confronted
with an obviously embarrassed youth stand-
ing outside the door of an underground dive
in one of Sydney’s back streets, and loudly
proclaiming the virtues of a miniature course
which, according to him, .was running like
Coleridge’s famous river in “caverns mea-
sureless to man.” He was clad in plus-fours,
and carried the putter which is the Excalibur
of these people, but he looked infernally
ashamed of the job necessity had evidently
thrust upon him. I have been a barker for
a Fat Lady in my time, but, somehow, I
shrink from spruiking for miniature golf.
* * * *
“Carnoustie” : One of the reasons prompt-
ing that rule of the N.S.W. professional
golfers’ organisation that no one can be
elected a member until after two years’ pro-
bation as an apprentice (B. is
the alleged necessity of learning how to make
golf club's. It does not sound very convinc-
ing. for comparatively few professionals pose
as skilled clubmakers nowadays. Many of
those who do have most of the work done
for them before they tackle a job, both
steel and wooden club heads, the latter rough-
fashioned, being imported from abroad. The
old-time pro., who shaped his club-head out,
of a block of wood or forged it from a steel
bar, had to be a skilled artificer. That neces-
sity does not exist to-day, when great fac-
tories turn out graded clubs of all varieties
by the cartload.
* * * *
“Brassey”: Between the regular golf
course and the midget abomination there is
a happy medium which, while it requires
nothing' like the space of a golf course
proper, yet gives ample opportunity for
genuine practice in putting and approaching.
Though plentiful enough elsewhere these
small courses are little known in Australia
as yet. One will shortly be put in commis-
si oxi at Bowral, which already boasts one
of the best country clubs in N.S.W.. It is
laid out on an area of about six acres, and
the holes vary from 80 to 120 yards in
length. A winding creek provides an excel-
lent natural hazard at two of the holes.
The course will be a public one, players pay-
ing by the day or round.
»jj * * *
“Lakeside”: George Von Elm, probably the
best amateur golfer in America after Bobby
Jones, has decided to go over to the paid
division. He says he is getting out because
of the expense of the game to an amateur
player; he mentions for one thing that
his participation in the last Walker Cup
match against the British amateurs cost him
£2OOO. Elm, who may be ranked among the
best dozen of living players in his own coun-
try or elsewhere, should make a fat living at
the professional game in the States. Tourna-
ment golf is practically continuous all the
year round, and the prize money is handsome
and a bit over. At the annual meeting at
Caliente, just over the U.S.A.-Mexican bor-
der, a spot where spots of all sorts are
available, the cash prizes topped £5OOO.
Car and Cycle
“Buzz” : The secret Napier engine lent by
the British aviation authorities to Smith and
Ilarkne.ss for their attempt' on the world's
speed record has arrived in Sydney and is
being fitted into the huge chassis built to
carry it. The engine is more powerful than
any pi’eviously used in making the record,
and Smith is certain of success. In his
favor is the ideal condition of the beach bn
which he will make his attempt. Instead of
Daytona's seven-mile stretch of ridgy and
soft sand, Ivaitaia shows 30 miles of run
as level and smooth as a concrete tennis
court. The packed sand is so hard after
the tide is out that the tyres of heavy
vehicles leave no indentation.
* * * *
“Whizz”: Heavy scoring was the order
of the day in the N.S.W. Automobile Club's
reliability and touring run to Bowral and
Robertson. The poorest showing among the
winners of the four classes was 337.11 out of
a possible 350. Among the “prams” E. J.
Buckley’s 847 Morris Minor scored 349.43
points, losing the fraction on the flying half-
mile. W. H*. Thompson took full points in
class C with his 2981-c.c. Bugatti. Among
the big fellows, Otto SandelVs 4220-c.c.
Buick led with 345.31.
# * * *
“Trembler” : Australian motorists, used to
reliability trials in which cars average speeds
as high as 35 m.p.h. and as often as not
score full points, are apt to scoff at the
British trials of the same sort in which the
average speed is rarely over 20 m.p.h. and
many competitors do not even finish the
course. The difference is accounted for by
the fact that while the average Australian
trial is run over a regular road circuit, those
in Britain include long stretches of cross-
country going—hills, streams, ploughed
ground and similar handicaps. The British
idea is to make the trial as stiff as is
humanly possible. In Australia, beyond
selecting a certain amount of hilly road route,
the tendency is the other way.
# * * *
“Sudd”: The latest freak in motor jour-
neys has to be debited to two young females
who have just completed an unaided run
from the Cape to Cairo, taking six months
to cover the 8000 miles. They used six-
year-old car which had already done 25,000
miles, and the British-built jigger never
gave the pair an hour’s uneasiness. The most,
exciting item in their story is how the chief
of a savage tribe, through whose kingdom
they passed, posted sentries over the door
of their tent. The African savage is the
most conservative of men, and it is evident
that the worthy father of his people, having
heard of modern feminine emancipation, was
taking no chances with his unsophisticated
flock.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: Hubert Opperman’s win in
the “Tour de Tasmania” is his second in
events of the kind, the first having been in
the Victoria Grand Prix staged by Dunlops
over a 685-mile circuit in 192 1. In that
race Opperman averaged 17 m.p.h., while
over the 303 miles of the Tasmanian
event he did no better than 15i miles
per hour. The conditions of these races,
calling as they do for spells of slow riding
while waiting for an opportunity to break
away from the opposition at the end ot the
sections, do not make for fast time. Phe
best average in a road race proper Australia
has known is Opperman's 24 m.p.h., put up
in the last Goulburn-Sydney.
Miscellaneous
“Splash": The endeavor to get the
Hawaiian swimmer Crabbe the was born in
Queensland) to Australia this season seems
to have ended in the usual failure, the
young gentleman, as on other occasions,
opening his mouth far too wide in the
matter of terms and conditions. A likelier
proposition, and one not so inflated with
the sense of his own importance, is laris,
the young Frenchman who has lately been
challenging Crabbe’s supremacy in the sprint
events, which has been acknowledged since
Weissmuller became an open professional.
It is possible, moreover, that Helen Madison,
the Yankee flier, will visit us this season.
She has said she is willing to come, and the
Australian women swimming heads are dis-
patching an invitation.
* * *
“Hotham”: It is just as well that Ike
Mcßagg does not operate at the yacht races.
A new six-metre craft which has been
entered for the Nortlicote Cup races on I ort
Jackson in mid-January has been christened
Toogooloowoo Two by her proud owner.
A name like that would present serious
difficulties to Ike. He couldn't shorten it,
as he does sometimes with other awkward
titles. If he called, say, “6 to 4 . the
feeuld bar Too” punters would get mixed
and there would be recriminations.
* # # *
“Green Chequer”: The championship of
the Victorian Homing Association, flown
over a 512-mile airline from Coonamble
(N.S.W.) to Melbourne, caused great excite-
ment, which was not actually justified by
results. Though the birds were liberated at
5 a.m. none of them was home in time for
tea, or even with the milk next morning, the
first in, a blue chequer cock owned by E.
Mallett, arriving at 8.53 a.m. The fowl s
velocity was recorded at 788 yards per
minute. This reads very slow, but it must
be remembered that the time spent in sleep,
or perhaps less reputable diversions the night
before, had to be counted in.. What really is
wanted for such occasions is a night-flying
pigeon, and breeders might do worse than
experiment with, an owl or flying-fox cross.
* * * *
“Westchester”: The vogue of polo in
the U.S.A. can best be judged by the
gate takings at the two America v. England
matches at Meadow Brook this season.
Ticket prices ran from 25 to 2 dollars, yet
the attendance on the two days totalled
close on 100,000. Small wonder the takings
were announced as over a million dollars
£200,000! It sounds too good to br true,
but on an average of a little over 10 dollars
per head of attendance is evidently correct.
*
“Stand Off”: As was confidently expected
on this side of the world, “Butts” Lamport,
the N.S.W. and Sydney University scrum
half, got his Rugby Blue in Ins first term
at Oxford —an unusual performance even
among Rhodes Scholars, who are usually
older and better grounded in game§ than
their British confreres coming straight from
school to the University. Lamport was the
first half chosen to tour Britain with tne
Waratahs, but preferred to stick to his work
at Sydney Uni. He has had ample experi-
ence for N.S.W. in Australia and Maoriland,
and it is a moot point whether he or Mal-
colm. who took his place in the Y\ aratahs,
is the better man in the position.
*'* * *
“Third Base”: One of the handicaps
under which baseball is run in N.S.W. is
the absence, of an enclosed ground as a
central base for the association. An attempt
is now being made to have Redfern Oval in
Sydney so altered and improved as to con-
stitute a first-class baseball ground, which
would also be available for other sports on
occasion. Negotiations are proceeding with
the Redfern Council, and the Cabinet is also
to be approached. A successful issue will
mean a lot to the 'bailers. It will give them
an opportunity of accumulating those shekels
without which no game can be a popular
success in these days of expensive tours and
visits. ,
ijc ❖ *
“Hiram ,T. Phcidippides” : The programme
for the Olympic Games to be held at Los
Angeles in 1932 caters for 19 different sports,
if one includes an Olympic Fine Arts com-
petition as a sport. This is the widest range
of any Olympiad to date, and includes two
hitherto unheard-of items, fencing and shoot-
ing with the pistol and rifle. America has
never figured prominently in the great Euro-
pean fencing contests, in which France, and
Italy have it their own way with Britain
usually well up. As to rifle shooting, as
we know it in Australia, Britain and
America should stand alone unless M.L. and
ourselves send teams. The long-range game
is unknown among Continental peoples.


WHEN YOU SLOT
am»*
V GIVE SPALDING
TENNIS EQUIPMENT
—for two good reasons . . .
B*3Sk
*-A survey shows . . Tennis more popular
than ever this year
Over half the players vote “ Spalding
best for quality” .
Merry Christmas!” A happy
thought. A happy gift. Some-
thing to fit the holiday mood.
Something in tune with the sunny
out-of-doors.
Give Spalding tennis equipment. A
racket ... or a box of “ Latexeam ”
balls. It’s the gift to please. For
tennis is proving even more popular
this year. People are playing more
.... and more than half of them
say “ Spalding equipment best for
quality —for accurate play.”
Spalding "Latexeam ” Australia’s
most popular Tennis Ball
Spalding “Latexeam” balls are used by
more than twice as many Australians
as any other tennis ball made. That’s
recommendation. That’s proof of
their bounding popularity.
The most exacting standards of play
are met by “Latexeams.” They’re auto-
matically inflated; air-tight; plugless.
That’s why they always bound true,
why they retain their liveliness, why
they’re perfectly balanced. Their com-
pression is so accurate that they have
just that amount of “give” on the
racket that makes for perfect control.
.
I/Wl
BP
/- ■. . •'!
jsS"yi«/§V' f' ■■■ % > <
Wmw^'
tmm *#*. o< k .;.Jt'?' ’*
: ...
U ::..
,*'v.
m
■■■:.■
’ :Vv
y*
■
• y - '/';
■
m
■ : *••**-:•
im
n:
w v
■
■iM'v-V <■■<«,ij'
lliiP.Sllllii
■.:
-
f ■,.
■
f
-
gj
BSs
*^s
ss
Here’s a Christmas box packed with happy
hours. One half-dozen Spalding " Latexeam”
balls, 12 /-, or carton of three for 6j-. Sealed
in transparent, shimmering cellophane, and tied
with gold ribbon.
Tough ? ... . Yes ! English
Melton cloth covers made from
Australian Merino wool; “ Latex ”
cement seams. They’re tough, hard-
wearing, long-wearing.
Treat yourself to a box, too !
They’re good Christmas companions.
Fit right in with your holiday mood.
Spalding Tennis Equipment —at all
Sports Stores. A. G. Spalding &
Bros. (N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd., 352 Kent
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
2he backhand drive straight down the side line. This passing
shot usually has a narroiv margin of safety —and in
such case the accuracy and controllability of a Spalding
" Latexeam ” ball are especially helpful.
Spalding tennis rackets —
the champions’ choice
Spalding has been making rackets over
fifty-four Christmases. So Spalding
rackets have a pedigree. In fact, some
of them went to England with William
the Conqueror ..... this year
and took the World’s Singles Champion-
ship. The champions’ choice, they won
the Men’s Doubles, Ladies’ Singles, and
Ladies’ Doubles at Wimbledon, too!
Follow the champions. Buy "Top-
Flite,” the fastest racket made, with open
throat, dashing "whip.” Or a "Gold
Medal 0.5.,” in 3 grades of stringing,
62/6, 70/-, or 80/-. The Improved
Model "Vantage,” perfectly balanced and
finished, 42/-; the "Greenwood,” a new,
brighter model, 19/9. There’s a Spalding
racket for every player—every pocket.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA


.Vf
•s':
_.V
i>V- v
, ■>
Nt-
r^-CrV
f^.
mM
tvv.
t
a?''/-
■2,
;W
w
A--
LWf&J
£J
2
# • ®
6»zyr
Let Johnnie Wo I her
mo he them o reoliti|
WHEN you wish “A Happy Xmas” to your friends
yv don’t let it go at that. Crystallise the sentiment....
make the wish come true....send with it a bottle of the
favourite Scotch 'Whisky....Johnnie W^alker.
Johnnie Walker is popular all over the world, all through
the year....and for a really happy Christmas—Johnnie
Walker....that’s the spirit.
«\
a“co**
JOHNNIE
WHISK
rv
H?
<
V'
t 7
/
JOHN
WALKER Sc SONS LTD., SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, LONDON and KILMARNOCK.
Born 1820-
Still going Strong


For the Spring and Summer
Evenings.
MONDAY TO FRIDAY.
DELIGHTFUL SUPPER DANCES.
Commencing at 9 a.m. and
finishing at I a.m.
SUPPER 5/-, including dancing.
Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY NIGHT, LATE NIGHT.
Evening Dress Only.
Special Supper from 9 p.m., 10/6
dancing till 2 a.m.
JACK WOOD’S POPULAR
AMBASSADOR ORCHESTRA.
Afterrtoon Tea J 3.30 till 5.30, 2/6
Dansant J Saturday .. 4/*
’Phone M 4131.
Food
»«■<*. Trade Mark.
The restful food
When digestion and nerves
are deranged, Benger’s Food is
both soothing and satisfying.
A cupful taken at bedtime is
comforting and sleep inducing.
Every case needing digestive help is
a case for Benger’s Food.
Dr.
Write for booklet to: —BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
Unde?
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE <
IMIHS
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company u mi tad
SYDNEY
ToH.M.
Kin 6
George V
CHAMPACM2
'^rleslleidsieci
Heims
“MERCURY” BRAND
TASMANIAN
Sparkling/
CIDER
A WOMAN’S
LETTER.
Tfc-- all sorts of ways of looking at a
, Isat this a perfectly lovely depres-
, burbled one flapper to another the
_ e / da y in the tram. “You know, father's
irooT^ USy i,Mi C) * ( V ns m °ther about the house-
mcpmg bills that he never remembers to ask
wnere we ve been or what we're doing.”
wiiho-ite* moved into Parliament House
Jrr ali ta e usual pomp and ceremony, and
p?. more tumult and excitement than any
u^l predecessors for m any a year gone.
, n a f ® lttaace was only by card at the outer
|®te, but nevertheless some of the ladies
i, o e a e 4 •/ e t"' o hours ahead of schedule. They
iad evidently determined not. to be among
standing majority. The corridors of the
old Macquane-street building, inured though
ey are to perennial inflation by hot air,
..emeu at bursting point as chiffonery, uni-
and the new hopes of the country
squeezed along them. Ex-Premier Bavin,
ox-hpeaker Dan Levy and Dr. Arthur early
gave up the attempt to worm their way into
tne Legislative Council chamber (only the
borer could have done that) and settled down
m the Assembly chamber. Lady Game was
tnere to hear her lord open Parliament in
v lat was surely the shortest sueech on
record. In less than eight minutes, accord-
ing to the usual human comptometer, the
ceremonial was over.
The 3000 or more lookers-on leaning over the
harriers in the streets witnessed the best part
»t the ritual. To the boom of guns they saw
/ < k (jo ? r ernor * n his Air Force blue sweep up
tp the House. They saw the clattering guard
ot military police, the flash of red and gold
on military and naval uniforms. They saw,
to( '-j the arrival of summer modes, wispy
and fluttery in silk aind georgette, topped by
flimsy hats, and they saw Lady Game in
discreet parchment chiffons and the shady
white hat of the moment edged with browui.
■jet. And among the aides and secretaries
aad such-like, posed in glittersome array
a ™ his Ex., this Letter liked most the look
ol General Anderson and Captain Geoffrey
Hughes.
... Professor Peden, president of the Legisla-
jVe. Youncil (threatened with such speedy
abolition), staged in his private rooms the
tea-drinking inseparable from such occa-
sions. Here, assisted by Barbara and Mar-
garet Peden, he greeted her State Ex., Briga-
dier-General Anderson’s lady. ex-Ministers
and their wives, and Mr. Bavin, whose wife
was an absentee in toto. Mrs. Lang and
her daughter, Mrs. Arnold, were absentees
in part. They had been present for the color-
ful ritual in the Council Chamber, but dis-
appeared before the tea and small chat.
The first job the new Speaker had was to
quell the cheers . which Mr. Lang’s entry
evoked in gusts from the ladies’ gallery. The
day before, at the formal opening, the sex’s
enthusiasm rose to gale point -when this same
Valentino of the polls presented his dimpled
chin to their gaze. Ah, well, let the Oppo-
sition say what it will," there’s never been
a more promising Ministry on the benches.
Rhoda Anderson, sister of lovely Elsie
Beerbohm, and herself one of Sydney’s most
famous beauties in pre-war days, has just
got married in London. H'e is a widower
named Leng, with a lovely old house at Sun-
ningdale, where the Prince plays golf. Rhoda,
who has been living with her mother at Old
Court Mansions since they settled in Eng-
land, is a skilful skater and one of the most
popular members of the Ice Club, where Patsy
Callan (who was Lord Dudley’s secretary in
Australia), Mrs. Claude Parbury and others
well known in Sydney are often to be seen.
A prayer-book cover of silver, stitched and
embroidered in a manner that Marie Antoin-
ette herself would not have despised, backed
Mollie Donohoe’s bridal bouquet. Mollie
became Mrs. Leo Garry in Goulburn last
week, and the prayer-book cover was the
work of the Sisters of Mercy of the convent,
where she had been staying. The bouquet
itself was an old-world sweetness made in
the form of a true-lover’s knot and composed
of French-blue hydrangea and water-lilies.
The ’groom is the owner of Mylora station.
Binalong. Bride’s aunt, Mrs. J. C. McKay,
of Brisbane, hostessed the toast-giving at
the Goulburn Hotel. The honeymoon will
be spent in a tour of Japan and the East.
George Lambert, looking more than ever
like the hero of a Russian novel, presided
over his own Memorial Show at the Educa-
tion Department’s Gallery last week. Con-
sciously self-conscious, he posed within the
frames of his self-portraits, (1) decked with
dressing-gown and gladioli, (2) fixing his
tie in a manner to display his hands and his
own cleverness in painting them. Anyway,
there he was, quizzing (as it seemed to
this Letter) the vast concourse of well-
dressed folk paying homage to the work of
departed genius. At a quarter to three the
gallery was so sparsely populated that one
jady became quite fidgety. “Of course, they
can t get the crowd because the Governor
isn t opening it!” she moaned; However, by
the time Lionel Lindsay, neatly tailored ’and
brushed, arrived to make the introductory
speech the two rooms were crowded with
the art world, the arty and the merely
artful, the last-named wearing the most-
becoming bonnets of all. -
Speeches innumerable were delivered, the
best of them by Julian Ashton. No matter
what the veteran’s theme, his voice holds
the kindness and wisdom of one« who has
seen beauty and led at least two genera-
tions of Sydney thereto. Gladys Owen, who
with Basil Burdett arranged the exhibition,
presented to the Gallery trustees some
pencil sketches and paintings from the Lam-
bert Memorial Fund. Gladys spoke in clear
incisive accents, and her points were made
like the sharp patter of hailstones. She was
clothed in cool brown tones, she and the
Mayoress supplying the touch of silk on a
platform otherwise decked in navy and grey
tailorings.
Mrs. John McKelvey brought a large
black hat and a bright smile to the party,
and artist McNally’s wife wore a hat that
suggested a bed of primrose leaves—Matthew
himself had captured the yellow of the
flower in his gloves. Yellow gloves are car-
ried by Archie Rankin in his portrait, and
primrose yellow was worn by clever musi-
cian Dagmar Roberts, whose mother, Mrs.
Waller Roberts, had lent a number of the
pictures on the walls. Sculptor Harold
Parker and his tall wife talked to Will Ash-
ton and .Albert Collins. Mrs. Charlie Lloyd
Jones slung a Sable necklet around a smart
black suit, and Mrs. Oscar Paul’s red bag
was the envy of every second woman. Monty
Grover came, beside him his wife, like a
bright little bird in smooth blue plumage.
Mary Gilmore and the Bill Moores formed
a group; Mrs. Lionel Lindsay, very neat
and complete in black, wore one of the
smartest hats in the room; and portrait
painter Norman Carter contributed his
Caesar-like head (complete with body, of
course) to the celebration. Nor must honor-
able mention of the flowers be omitted. They
. arose in a beauty that was the work of Thea
Proctor’s hands.
A few years ago one of the; city’s peren-
nial jokes concerned three famous trysting-
places : “The Tree,” at Randwick ? “Under the
Clock,” at Central; and “Outside the
Stores.” Probably the greatest number of
meetings and partings took place outside
the thriving old Pitt-street premises of the
Civil Service Co-operative Society. But
the Stores changed its address to George-
street, and chose for its home the site that
had previously seen the decline and fall of
another old Sydney firm, Lassetter’s. The
new address wasn’t nearly such a handy
rendezvous, so the Stores as a trysting-place
went out of action. Now it has gone out of
action as a business, and its 300 employees
(some of whom had been between 20 and
30 years in an establishment that not so
long ago was considered as impregnable as
Gibraltar), are seeking new jobs in a city
where they are hard to find.
Among the large and influential circle that
has helped to make “The Romantic Age” the
serial success of the week is the Knox lady,
the subject of
this Falk
photograph.
She and daugh-
ter Elizabeth
are both keen
workers on the
auxiliary for
the Industrial
Blind I n st i-
tute in Wil-
-1 i a m - street,
which will be
the very
worthy bene-
ficiary of the
moonlight and
dew dra m a.
The auxiliary,
which has
lately been
revived in the
interests of
this training
school where
afflicted brother and sister are taught to aid
themselves, has raised quite a handsome
amount in the last few months.
Anne Gordon, as the Melisande of A. A.
Milne’s play, at the Savoy, who found the
prince of her dreams on Midsummer Night,
only to have him materialise the next after-
noon into a young stockbroker, was as
dreamy-eyed and sweet of voice as even the
author could have, desired. In her pink frilly
dress and later in her frock of woodland
golds she looked a peach. George Blackwood,
as Gervase Mallory, burst on the gaze in
a marvellous mediaeval suit of blue and
silver, in which he was entered to win the
prize for the best costume (male) at the
county fancy-dress ball. His profile looked
better than his legs, but that’s a way with
these mediaeval suits. Of course, George.
who produced the play, is a professional
actor of some renown. Mrs. Dundas Allen,
as mother of the romanticist, wore some
bangles of allure, and was quite funny when
not inaudible. Good work was done on the
opening night by J. C. Mclveown, John Mant,
Harry Dangar and Campbell Stephen.
Helen Stephen and Pat Farquharson deco-
rated the stage in minor parts.
The opening night showed the silver lining
to even this city’s cloud. There was the
sly rustle of riches as lame and satin and
furred wraps passed up the aisle. There
■were the public announcements of wealth in
diamonds and pearls, and of liquid assets in
the breaths of some of the late male arri-
vals who had come on from the club. This
Letter particularly liked Joan Marks’s length
of gold, Mrs. Warwick Fairfax’s little snow-
white velvet coat and Elizabeth Knox’s
skyey-blue flutter of chiffons. Dame Eadith
Walker’s head arose in the middle aisle, Jus-
tice Gordon, his lady and Charlie Wcstma-
cott sat in a row, and Miss Egan, of Red
Cross fame, was one of the good-looking
wearers of black. Morna Ma'eCormick, in
jade chiffons, traded shoulder sprays for
lucre, and there were frocks with trains,
backs that deserved more covering, and the
American Consular Tredwells and Mrs. C.
L. Jones, in raiment of distinction. There
were Knoxes and Friends, and as pleasant
a lot of young men ushers as ever led an
audience up the aisle.
Soprano Hilda Boyle smiles farewell from
this Monte Luke photograph before depart-
ing for Europe, especially Sweden, to make
a study ot
that country's
c o m p o scrs.
Hilda’s late
husband (in
private life
she is Mrs.
Englund) was
a native of the
country of
Gustavus Adol-
phus, and in
the programme
of her recital
last week a
group of
Swedish songs
was a notable
item. The
harp, so sel-
dom present
on concert
p 1 a t f orms,
made a wel-
come appear-
ance, its strings being swept by the hand
of Hilda Roberts. Hilda Sutton, Mrs. Eve-
lyn Grieg, Haagen Holenbergh, Franco Izal,
Hans von Escher and Mrs. George King
were contributors to a programme that
might be truly called international.
Dorothy Coffee is to be married to-morrow
evening at 7.30 to Keith Buchanan. The
ring will be slipped into position in the draw-
ing-room of Surgeon Dan Kelly’s home at
Kirribilli (Mrs. Dan is a sister of the bride),
and the champagne will be uncorked in the
big ballroom. Dorothy is a sparkling little
brunette, and will be wrapped in a glimmer-
ing satin and tulle confection. Tiny niece
Hope Hughes will be flower girl, and blonde
Betty Buchanan the ’maid,'who will be armed
by best-man Walter Dibley. The decorations,
by Searls, promise to make the home look
like the Garden of Eden. Dorothy is a
daughter of the late Frank Coffee,' whose
picturesque white head and lean figure
crossed the Pacific 40 times (or more), and
who made a book of his travels.
B. E. Minns is Father Christmas, too; he
has .been capturing some of the most color-
ful little bits in that most colorful district
on the Upper Hawkesbury where Austra-
lian agriculture heard its cradle song. In
particular there’s a sprinkle of cows outside
that town that this Letter would love to
have in its own bails. But Minns has other
ideas about them, and will hang them in
Bennett’s Gallery on December 11.
A service in St. Stephen’s Presbyterian
Church, attended by the Consular Tredwells
and a large portion of the American colony,
was part of the official celebration of
Thanksgiving Day. The yearly dinner-dance
at the Wentworth’ saw another big gathering
of Uncle Sam’s citizens. Here the Stars and
Stripes and Australia’s flag floated proudly
on the breeze and American dishes were
served to the accompaniment of “Marching
through Georgia.” Community singing was
another innovation of this always up-to-the-
minute cafe.
Cranbrook has broken out in a fresh place,
and intends producing three plays at King’s
Hall on December 3 and 4. All the perform-
ers will be boys. Some have been cast for
parts in “Michael” (Miles Malleson’s adap-
tation of Tolstoy’s story) and “The Rehear-
sal” (Maurice Baring’s costume play) ;
others will dash about in Beatrice Maylor’s
farce “Thirty Minutes- in a Street.” Mr.
Beck, Mr. Child and Mr. Palmer are getting
up the joyous entertainment, assisted by
Mrs. Heath Oreer; the profits go to the play-
ground fund. Mrs. F. W. Allen has snared
a number of attractive lasses to sell pro-
grammes and sweets. Prefects and older boys
will act as ushers. The Governor and Lady
Game will be present to-morrow night.
The unusual fish of the decorative artists
who are harboring their show at the Gros-
venor Galleries is undoubtedly Woodward
Smith. He had already been temporarily
ga.fed by Miss Tildesley, of educational fame,
and by an aesthetic-looking male in a French
grey suit when this Letter blew into the
Galleries on the day of the opening, so
it hadn t a chance to make the artis-
tic soul squirm by sticking through it the pin
of query, “What exactly is the meaning of
your, picture ‘The Voice Crying in the Wilder-
ness ! ’ It’s not a large canvas, yet it has a
self-portrait of the artist, a background of
Calvary and an olive-grove typifying Getli-
wemane, and a line from a negro spiritual
sinner, please doan let dis liarves’ pass.”
Lut, arresting us the thing is for pure artistry,
the flower painting to the left from the same
brush has it beat. Jimmy Macdonald, tile
genial-hearted, grim-mouthed director of the
National Gallery, declared the show open at
three last Thursday, and nowhere in the
city that liot afternoon were cooler vistas
than those supplied by the long, narrow rooms,
biy- and azalea-decked. Margaret Preston’s
low-priced “Blue Orchid Woodcut” and her
blood-stirring and equally cheap “Coral
h lowers” will attract many buyers. Eileen
tli’s, bronzed plaster casts, “Joan”
and Faddy,” are graceful and vital decora-
tions in the room.
Sydney’s first all-night club, the snug
little Mayfair, has put up the shutters. Some-
body is reported to have dropped between
five and six thousand on the venture. The
table equipment was all that the most fasti-
dious could desire in the way of crystal and
finon. The lounge was discreet; it was
softly lighted in a manner to appeal to the
most jaded of complexions, and to the most
poetic wooer who wanted a corner to whis-
per lus verse into the ear of its inspirer. In
short, the club seemed to have had every-
thing to make it a draw as an after-the-
theatre meeting-place ; the only thing lacking,
apparently, was the cash to spend. The lavish
supper party has slipped from our midst. The
prodigal son, instead of the fatted calf, is
getting it in the neck. So the Mayfair, with
its black . and. white stripes and futuristic
carpets, its iridescent ballroom walls, its
crystal chandeliers and coral-pink luncheon
sets, is dissipated amid the auction rooms,
the second-hand shops and solid suburban
homes, if the noses, voices and raiment
which wore the lifts literally to a standstill
last b riday morning are any criterion.
A Christmas publication that will fascinate
oy.dueysiders is the Oazneaux Bridge Book.
V ithin its pages that most miraculous arch
is captured in moonlight, rising mys-
terious above a dense mist, clear-cut
and compelling against a cloudless sky.
Here are quaint cables, intricate lacework
of steel, massive pylons of Moruya granite,
ihat clever spider the creeper crane has
done his work well, but most marvellous of
all are the cages of workers, so small and
trail in comparison with the monster they
are creating, swinging through space between
the steel Colossus and the ribbon of harbor.
It is an epic of the strength of steel and
the determination of man.
The masthead of H.M.A.S. Albatross
bloomed forth with a laurel wreath last
Thursday to mark the passing of the bachelor-
hood of Lieutenant Bryce Morris. In the
evening he and Kitty Merewether were spliced
by Canon Langley. Kitty is a daughter of
the Fred Merewethers, of Mulabinda, Edge-
cliff : the ’groom hails from Melbourne. The
bride was in gold, from her tulle veil to her
high-heeled shoes, and sister Margaret was
fluffy with lobelia-blue chiffon frills. A family
dinner at the Queen’s Club rounded off the
rejoicing.
If you want to stiffen up the hollyhocks or
the carnations, you can’t find anything pret-
tier than the stakes on which the birds of
the air and the butterflies are poised These
are the work of the Children’s Craft Club
and the kiddies thereof held a Christmas sale
at Burdekin House last week in aid of the
Children’s Library a t Surry Hills. Dorothea
Mackcllar, in lyrical green chiffons and a
wide black hat, did the opening, and went
away laden with raffia and crochet, pottery
and woodwork, in which .the show abounded.
By the time this Letter reaches you Bertha
Iticcardo, the fascinating little dimple of
“Sons o’ Guns,” will be a wedded wife. The
man of her choice is Clyde Hood, of Union
Theatres, whom she has met only since her
return to Australia. All things having gone
to schedule, she whispered her vows in an
apricot-colored organdie frock with two tiers
of frills on its skirt, and the wedding was
staged at midnight in the home of the John
Hicks couple, through whom Bertha and her
bridegroom met. Later, in company with the
Dan Carrolls, the Stuart Doyles, E. J. Tait
and daughter Jessie, the two sat down to
ham and eggs, hot biscuit (which is the same
thing as our scone) and coffee.


mfa.
*' /»r*'
l.Vj
b*
uLVSto w# f '\
'Wll
~,/iifti,v
,v V
T&f-A
Jw. itas.jBl
c a
ZLA
\S % '■
<gfcs
m
~ jy
v#
<1 jpt
V
- 2
wr.
//
M
i, ,n
Are you supporting this totally Australian Industry? It employs tadreds, of Aus-
tralians directly in the REX factories and offices in each State, hundre
indirectly on the land, in glass- and can-making, printing, labels, machinery, etc.,
and only Australian capital. REX products are equal in quail y 1 no s p
best imported.
Your Xmas Ham
REX
Sugar-cured, mild, tender, delicious
Holiday (aiding made easy
For picnic hampers —for holiday - house, camp and boat larders — to tide over
meatless days at Christmas and New Year-to give Mother a holiday from the
kitchen —delicious foods ready to eat, handy to carry and easy to serve.
Choice cold meats for all occasions
REX-PYE, REX LUNCH TONGUES, REX OX TONGUE, REX PORK BRAWN, REX PIG FEET.
REX-PYE in jelly, in 8oz„ l2oz. and 16oz. cans, is the famous and original cold meat dish created by us a< Rfrv n pYE
lecipe in our sole pLession, and never approached in quality and value by its cheap imitation, Always say REX-PT E.
Tasty hot dishes ready in a moment
REX SOUPS (Pea, Ox Tail, Vegetable, Mulligatawny, Consomme, Cream ol Celery, i
11b. and cans),
„ . , • hi • RFAHY MEAL of choice beef and vegetables. Heat the can thoroughly in boiling water,
in; f*.-
equal in quality if not superior to the best imported—we say, superior. Iry them and prove tor yourself.
Rex Sandwich Delicacies for lunches, teas and suppers
A T A\TA TAMO! TC
REX LUNCHEON CHEESE REX SALMONELLE
REX HAM PATE REX DEVILLED HAM
REX ANCHOVY PASTE REX BLOATER PASTE
REX VEAL AND TONGUE
REX HAM AND TONGUE
REX VEAL AND BACON
REX Luncheon Cheese, in tins and jars, is the famous full-cream, perfectly-matured cheese in
form. Salmonelle, in dainty glass jars, is a delicate fish paste. Why buy ‘’£^7“
home industry turns out these really delicious Salmonelle and REX Anchovy and Bloater P
COWSLIP CHEESE, in |lb. cartons and 51b. blocks, is a REX product. It is pasteurised cheese
—rich and mild.
Cut this advertise-
ment out and have
it by you when you
make up your food
list for the holi-
days.
| |\IIRE ECCW
R
If there are any of these lines which you wish to try but which your grocer
or smalkoodsman does not stock, please ask him to order them from us for you.
Foggitt Jones Pty., Ltd—Australia


7hp cen/ne of Queen s /on c/s
' dis/ingu/sfred Soc/o/ Life.
*° BRISBANE
ds
Magnificent Ball-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central B3S11—6 Lines.
REDUCED TARIFFS:
Single Room only ...... . f rom 10/- per day
Single Room only with Private Bath from 15/- per day
Room and Breakfast f rom j 2 /6 per person
Inclusive Tariff on / j
Inclusive Tariff, with Private Bath from 27/6 per day
, Private Suites quoted on application.
Luncheon 3/6 or ala carte. Dinner 5/-
Meals served in rooms, 1/- extra.
THE WENTWORTH PALM COURT LINKS
Open from II a.m. till midnight—lB Holes for 1/-
Golf and Morning Tea or Coffee \/.
Golf and Afternoon Tea . , 2/6
DANCING EVERY EVENING AND SATURDAY AFTERNOONS
WENTWORTH HOTEL
CHURCH HILL SYDNEY
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS: “MUM,” SYDNEY.
Amusements.
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S : SONS O’ GUNS.
CRITERION : POSSESSIONS.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL: THE CINGALEE.
COMEDY THEATRE:
PEG O’ MY HEART.
LAST NIGHTS.
RICKARDS’ TIV OL I THEATRE,'
MELBOURNE.
IWICE DAILY, at 2.30 and 8 p.xn.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents
THE NEW REVUE
BY THE SEA,
With a Brilliant Cast of Popular Favorite*.
Popular Pre-war Prices.
Melbourne
Chatter
Alter postponing tlie Henley-on-Yarra car-
n™l/or a month in the hope of striking
settled warm weather, the Regatta Associa-
tion was a little unfortunate on Saturday,
tor though the day was fine and bright the
wind was chill, and the West Indian cric-
Keters provided a counter-lure at the M.C.G.
i at the aquatic show was not
as large as usual nor were the proceedings
quite so gay and carefree as in happier
tunes. Flimsy frocks came out in hundreds,
flowered and figured in every hue, and fol-
lowing in almost every case the sleeveless
with a cape or deep berthe. It took
a bit of heroism to wear that sort of rig-out
in the face of the shrewd breeze, but Henley
u Henley if we didn’t all pretend
that the sun was doing its duty in proper
summer style. Bits and pieces, flounces and
flares, long and short, fluttered round silk
nose and satin shoes, some misses being
sflod m green, blue and other bright colors.
One girl, all in white chiffon from her large
hat to the gown that swept her white kid
pumps, proclaimed by her attire that she was
a newly-wed ; just as another, in leaf-green
georgette with a coat bordered with grey fur,
topped by floppy green millinery, was
obviously wearing her going-away suit. Two
friends, in pink and blue lace respec-
tively, could not be mistaken for anything
. t the bridesmaids. The plain suitable
river frocks of linen or patterned piques of
former years were missing, and so were those
attractive stitched linen hats, though the
shops did their best to convince patrons
that they were the right wear for the occa-
sion. Both banks of the Yarra carried good-
sized crowds and at Henley lawns four
moored houseboats lent color to the scene.
There seemed to be but little money to
spare for ice-creams, sweets and fruit, and
there was hardly any purchasing of the car-
nival novelties specially made for such occa-
sions. These were on sale around Prince’s
Bridge’ where men were lined up with stacks
of light canes dangling kewpies, flowers, aero-
planes and Mickey and Minnie mice. A
of the times also was the melancholy
tooting of blind and maimed musicians.
, Out on the canal-like Yarra, canoes glided
slowly each side of the course over which
skimmed the racing skiffs in strenuous com-
petition. It was a colorful, ever-changing
scene in which the numerous little light craft,
bright blue, yellow, green, pink, mauve and
other shades, made a pretty showing. The
humorous element was supplied by contrap-
tions propelled by bicycle gearing. A craft
of this sort mahoeuvred by two pirates
caused a ripple of laughter when it held
up the police-patrol. There was little adorn-
ing of boats, the prize-winner in the deco-
rated section having a run-away win with
an old-world garden design in which were
hollyhocks and an arbor covered with wis-
taria and roses. The winning canoe was a
graceful thing of pale yellow melting into
eau-de-nil, with heaps of cushions following
the same tints, and the maid who nestled
among them was in a matching frock of
muslin, her pilot sporting the regulation
yachting garb. Many of the men afloat
didn’t wear flannels this year, but berets
with long tassels were favored as headwear.
A mother and her child were there in a light
skiff, the parent in red jumper and cream
skirt, and the wee girl also in red, with a
tiny parasol.
Lud Mayor Luxton’s houseboat was most
picturesquely finished in royal blue and gold,
with window-boxes all round filled with
lovely pot-plants and hydrangeas. Group-
ings of flags, the civic coat-of-arms and gay
lanterns were extra garnishings. The Mayor
received many congratulations on his election
as M.L.A. for Caulfield. Mrs. Luxton’s pat-
terned suit mingled white and dark green
and her straw liat repeated the same hues.
Among their guests of the afternoon were
Archbishop Head, the Premier and Mrs.
Hogan, she in chiffon sprinkled with mauve
and blue roses, with a large hat; Air-Commo-
dore and Mrs. Williams, Mr. and Mrs. Nor-
man Brookes and Mrs. Eric Harrison.
Colonel and Mrs. J. M. Semmens did the
honors on the president’s boat, knight
George Fairbairn being out of town. A
color scheme of green and flame was used
on this ship, and the two blues and gold of
the Amateur Sports Club decorated the
houseboat where Mr. and Mrs. A. J. Shep-
herd greeted patrons. Henley subscribers
and the Australian Club joined in entertain-
ing their friends Jn. a. boat that sported daf-
fodil tints and a display of green foliage.
At St. John’s, South Yarra, Vere, eldest
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. D. Steven Bolls
ot loorak, wore deep ivory crepe over which
cascaded a veil of Point d’Alehcon lace on
the occasion of her marriage to Deric onlv
son of the A. F. Pearses, of South Yarra.
Her sister, Mrs. L. Furze Morrish, officiated
as matron of honor in a beige georgette frock
and large hat trimmed with darker-hued
velvet. Gwendoline Thomas and Elaine
Gibson, the ’maids, dressed the part in
voluminous skirts of pink and golden tulle
allied to lace bodices of russet-pink tint
topped with shady straw millinery There
were after-rejoicings at No. 9.
Folk who motored to Bendigo for the Cup
meeting had a delightful experience For
about three-fourths of the 98-mile journey
the country was newly washed with rain, and
the road a perfect one. In the plains between
the city and Gisborne the golden grain—
not so golden to the farmer as it used to be —
was being harvested. One of the features of
Gisborne is an army of huge elms, nearly
aS^ ol Txr as 3 the settlem ent. About Macedon
and \\oodend the gardens are bowers of
roses, and the orchards round about Castle-
mame and Il'arcourt promise a bumper yield.
Castlemaine, once noted for gold and later
for beer and granite, has commenced to cul-
tivate the arts. It boasts a collection of pic-
tures, and encourages painters by running a
periodical competition with a worth-while
prize. At present the pictures are hung in
a chamber on the top floor of the post office,,
but a fund is being accumulated for the build-
ing of a more suitable show-room..
The Bendigonians of long ago were strong
on English traditions; in addition to
naming their racecourse Epsom they insti-
tuted, on their main street, a Charing
Cross and a Pall Mall. The B.J.C. has laid
out its course with good judgment. There
are a comfortable stand, a well-kept lawn and
a picturesque plantation to shelter the picnic-
tea enclosure.
Bendigo spreads itself over rolling downs
with the main street in a valley and all
the cross-roads pouring down like tributaries
The thoroughfares, large and small, are bor-
dered by trees. Even little lanes have an
arboreal setting. The pioneers, while they
didn’t despise the eucalypts, planted elms',
oaks, silver beeches, pines and palms. A
fine monument was erected on the occasion
of the jubilee celebration of the finding of
gold in 1851. A touch reminiscent of the
town’s early history is the label “gold office’’
on the door of one of the banks.
There was a good attendance at the races
on both days. Hot weather brought out
patterned chiffons and. other flimsy raiment,
and even visitors from the capital were im-
pressed by the _ smart dressing of many of
the women. Pictured here by Lafayette is
Mrs. Oswald D. Watson, wife of the presi-
dent of the B.J.C. -She was in navy blue
georgette, topped by a straw hat of the same
shade with a touch of elierry-color. Mayor
Taylor was accompanied by the Mayoress,
who wore a
geranium-pink
coat with a
floral frock and
straw hat.
Mrs. R. M.
Putnam, wife
of the secre-
tary of the
8.J.C., had a
gown of fawn
tone figured in
green and
black, with a
black hat.
Mrs. G. Y.
Lansell, just
returned from
press confer-
ences in the
01 d World,
sported a coat
and skirt of
fancy blue-
and-grey maro-
cain worn with a navy and white speckled
hat. Marie Lansell was accompanied by
Norma Watson. Mrs. Harold Bush wore
a patterned frock in which rose, purple, green
and pink were mingled. Black crgpe de Chine
relieved with coffee-colored lace was the choice
of Mrs. A. R. Pattison. Mrs. Arthur Moore,
prominent in mining circles ; Mrs. Willie Iser,
Mrs. J. H. Abbott, Mrs. Frank Levy, Mrs.
Fred Hunter (Bridgewater), Mrs. Burridge
and Mrs. E. O’Keefe (Axedale), Mrs. Frank
Doherty, Rita Showers and Muriel Bolt were
among the patrons. Mr. and Mrs. A. Y.
Kewney, who were staying with Colonel
and Mrs. W. Clark, of Bulla, were in the
contingent of Melbourne racing folk; also
Mrs. Ben Chaffey, very smart in bottle-green,
Miss Macpherson and Mrs. Pulteney Mein
and her daughter Alison. Norman Belcher
came from Geelong in his own ’plane, and
gracefully alighted on the Flat. Vice-presi-
dent J. IT. Lienhope, lately returned from
travels in Europe and America, showed the
men the last word in natty dressing, con-
trasting a dark green tie and hankie with a
grey suit.
Friday was Rose, Day, one of the six days
of the year on which this city allows large-
scale street collections for charity. The 40 free
lander-.-? rtens had a lien on this date, but
the box-rattlers were disappointed to find
they had to compete with the opening of the
organised Christmas shopping campaign and
the street selling of Conversion Loan bonds.
The kindergarten workers had a luncheon-
hour parade of baby motor-cars decked with
roses to advertise their cause, and possibly
the counter-attractions, which included the
appearance of Father Christmas in the com-
pany of a singularly youthful Mother
Christmas, weren’t exactly inimical to
an appeal on behalf of youngsters. Any-
vay the 400 collectors sold rose-patterned
buttons at prices ranging from a bob to
a quid, and £6500 was found in the net at the
first hauling-in, with a prospect of more to
come. The day opened gloomily and damply,
bnt „u afternoon was beautifully fine, and
stallholders on the sidewalks made good pro-
fits for the cause.
Nell Taylor, pictured here by Dickenson-
Monteath, will
make her first
profess i o n a 1
stage appear-
ance as princi-
pal girl in the
Firm’s Christ-
mas pant o-
mime "The
House That
•Tack Built.”
Miss Taylor
graduated as a
member of the
Repertor y
Society under
Frank Clew-
low’s direction.
She played the
part of. the
princess in
“The Rose and
the Rin g,”
and was lead-
ing lady in
“The Love Step/’ She had her very nice
voice trained at the Uni. Con.
White satin, tulle and Christmas lilies
formed the wedding array of Decima only
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. B. Reilier, of
Lancefield, when she exchanged vows with
Eric, only son of the late Mr. and Mrs.
J. S. Williams, of Adelaide, She was attended
by two maids carrying armfuls of pink
gladioli against gowns of leaf-green chiffon
with straw hats of the same shade.
The uniform of the Air Force added to
the picturesqueness of the knot-tying of
Flying-officer Harold Russell Harding and
Marie, second daughter of the Robert
Sloanes, of Brighton. The bride’s soft white
gown was traced with silver, and her two
attendants were clad one in amber and one
in blue georgette, with matching millinery
and posies.
When Thelma Alice Coon was married to
Gilbert Laurence Chandler, a son of A E
Chandler, M.L.C., whose daffodil farm at
Boronia is famous, two ’maids in frocks
that mingled beige and ruby tints in their
hgured pattern, with large hats, accompanied
the bride who wore white georgette and cob-
webby silk lace.
The Leslie Stuarts, of Toorak, have an-
nounced the engagement of their younger
daughter Mary, to Geoffrey, a son of the
.Norton Gnmwades, of Mount Maccdon.
Joan, elder daughter of the Harold New-
bigms, of Burwood, is another maiden who
sports a new ring, the token having been
presented by Ronald, son of the late W. A.
Macpherson, of Paikha station, N. S. Wales'
and of Mrs. Macpherson, of South Yarra’.
Miss JNewbigin and Miss Stuart are cousins.
Sammy younger daughter of the R. Yin-
cents, of Prospect Plouse, Geelong, ig receiv-
mg congratulations on her engagement to
Rupert elder son of Mr. and Mrs. A. Moon
South Yarra.
.. P n ® of tlle shops in the new arcade which
nnks Howey-pffice and Collins-street has been
lent free of rent so that clothing and novel-
ties made by girls in need of employment mav
be marketed. There are now several depots
where these girls can put in a day or so of
work each week making these goods. Quite
a good stock of serviceable undies, beach
pyjamas, plain frocks and sets for small
children have accumulated, and these are
accompanied by sets of supper napery, tray-
cloths and other knick-knacks. The first day’s
takings showed a profit of £3O, and so far
there has been no lack of customers.
Fendin S Library of the Braille
Institute a Christmas sale of the work of the
blmd was opened early last week. The
goods displayed are not from the Royal
Victorian Institute of the Blind, but have been
made by many of the afflicted who struggle
along m their own homes, being instructed
in various crafts by visiting teachers. There
is a brave array of comfy knitted woollen
garments for children, of shawls and bed
jackets for adults and of baskets of raffia and
straw. The sale, which will go on until
December 23, was organised by the Associa-
tion of Braille Writers.
The Queen Victoria Memorial Hospital
founded 34 years ago as the result
or a silver-coin subscription and Mrs.
Borman Brookes, the president, is relying on
a gathering-in of shillings to clear the insti-
tution s building debt. One of the induce-
ments to give will be the enrolling in a huge
red-leather-covered tome, to be kept at the
hospital, of the name of every donor of 12d.
Of course there is no embargo on giving
more, and there is always the chance that
on a page containing 120 entries one’s name,
like Ben Adhem’s, may lead all the rest,
Here modern science comes to the aid of the
promoters. The loose-leaf system is used, and
the leaves there should be 3334 of them,
since the objective is £40,000 —are being
circulated all over the State. Lord and Lady
Somers took charge of a blank leaf and
undertook to return it, filled.
In “Threads of Romance,” an Australian-
produced film now flickering at Hoyt’s, the
1 ashions ot a hundred years ago are shown
by demure damsels —delightful panniered
frocks with powder and patches elegantly
used for no other purpose than to give their
gorgeously-garbed beaux opportunities for
classical compliments. Then a craftsman is
shown at an old-style knitting machine,
laboriously weaving a stocking. The scene
changes to the Prestige mills, the largest in
the Southern Hemisphere. Prestiges make
coverings for legs, which, whether they are
more or less beautiful than those of the
ladies of the past who thought it shame to
show them in public, certainly look their
best when cased in silk and other materials
by a firm which, being indigenous, as it were,
knows exactly what Australian girls, young,
mid-way and old, are wanting at the moment.
Members of the Music Club assembled at
the Lyceum Club rooms on Friday night to
listen to sonatas for violin and piano played
by Elise Steele and Margaret Sutherland,
the gamut ranged from Mozart to Doh-
nanyi, and there was a first performance in
this city of a sonata by Ravel, a characteris-
tically bewildering composition. Secretary
Muriel Campbell mobilised an audience that
included Prof, and Mrs. Ernest Scott, the
Spencer lady and the. H. E. Sprys.
In her recital of modern verse on Satur-
day Mrs. McCowan Russell (Lucy Ahon)
traversed avenues tragic, dramatic and gay.
A slim, graceful figure in a gown of white
satin, she made an arresting picture as
she held her large audience with a nicely
modulated voice and varied powers of facial
expression. Among the chief items were
Thomas Hardy’s “A Conversation at Dawn,”
part of “The Deserter,” by Lascelles Aber-
crombie, and “Patterns,” by Amy Lowell.
Amy Dickinson, not long returned from a
visit to England, played some modern com-
positions for the piano, and Eda Bennie
sang, included in her items being “The
Medlar-tree,” by Miss Dickinson. A stock
of beautiful horticulture rewarded the three
artists.
Under the title of “An Afternoon of Song
and Laughter” Mrs. Merson Cooper is put-
ting on a show at Menzies’ on December 13
that has St. Vincent’s Hospital as its object.
The lady is undertaking to reserve all seats,
and prospective patrons are asked to tele-
. phone her at Menzies’.
Strawberries have been unusually plenti-
ful this season, and motorists find the road-
sides populous with children and adults sell-
ing them. The more business-like of the
vendors furnish containers of cream too.
Heaps of cherries are on the market, and
they also are offered on wayside stalls,
together with vegetables, eggs and flowers.
Dorothy Penfold, of Bendigo, prolific
source of sweet singers, has gone to London
to become a pupil of Gilly.
Mrs. A. J. McLachlan, wife of Senator
McLachlan, spread tea at the Quamby Club
as a welcome to Mrs. S. M. Bruce. The
wives of many Parliamentarians were there.
Necklaces are appearing in a new mode—
cr perhaps one should say the revival of a
very old one—this summer. Some varieties
are fashioned of wood in rather large grape-
like clusters, with foliage effects. Those in
shades of fawn and brown are extremely
pretty and seem likely to win popularity. The
glass-bead adornment has become a regular
choker of forget-me-not-shaped clusters in
every shade, or of concentric circles.
Margaret, daughter of Mrs. Evan Rees, bon.
sec. of the W.C.T.U., has won a scholarship
in connection with the new nursery school
attached to the Collingwood creche. Miss
Rees went overseas last year to study kin-
dergarten methods, and for the previous three
years directed the W.C.T.U. kindergarten
at Richmond.
Victor Harding, who was basso in St.
Paul’s Cathedral choir here, and who went
to London for further training, has been
given engagements by the British Broadcast-
ing Co., and will also sing at St. Clement
Danes Church. Mr. Harding is a former
pupil of Ivor Boustead.


AGGREGATE BALANCE SHEET of the
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
30th SEPTEMBER, 1930.
LIABILITIES.
Notes in Circu-
lation .. £527,026 10 0
Deposits, Accrued
Interest and
Rebate . . 66,238,223 1 6
Bills Payable and other Liabilities
(which include Reserves held for
Doubtful Debts, Investment
Fluctuations, and other Con-
tingencies)
Paid-up Capital £7,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 6,150,000 0 0
Profit and L055£898,177
£898,177 13 11
Less Interim Divi-
dends to 30th
June, 1930 —
£562,500 0 0
£336,677 13 ll
£66,765,249 11 6
6,068,480 4 0
13,985,677 13 11
£86,819,407 9 5
Contingent Liabilities—
Outstanding Credits, as per
Contra
2,408,970 19 10
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion,
Gov ernment
Legal Tender
Notes and Cash
at Bankers., a; 11,484,189 15 4
Notes of other
Banks
Money at short
call in London
Shot t-dated
British Trea-
sury Bills ..
Investments—
British and
Colonial Gov-
e r n m e n t
Securities
Municipal and
other Securi-
ties
Due by other
Banks
i Bills Receivable
' in London
I and Remit-
: t.ances in
| transit
| Bills Discounted, and Loans and
te Advances to Customers.. . . 60,400,510 li 10
*sank Premises .. .. • • 1,600,000 0 0
£86,819,407 9 5
Liabilities of Customers and others
on Letters of Credit, as pet Contra 2,408,970 19 10
61,800 0 0
1.650,000 0 0
2,550,000 0 0
4,716,527 18 2
242,886 0 0
713,797 14 2
3,399.695 3 11
£24,518,896 11 7
£89,228,378 9 3
Cr.
Dr. PROFIT AND LOSS, 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930.
To Interim Dividends for Quarters
ended 31st December, 1929, 31st
March, 1930, and 30th June, 1930,
at 10 per cent, per annum, paid in
terms of Clause 105 of Deed of
Settlement out of the Year’s Profits £562,500 0 0
Balance proponed to be dealt vith an follows : —
To Quarter’s Dividend
to 30th September,
1930 at the rate
of 9 per cent, per
annum, out of the
Year’s Profits . . £108,750 0 0
~ Balance carried
forward .. .. 106.927 13 11
335,677 13 11
£898,177 13 11
|By Amount from last Account .. £1 63,478 10 6
„ Balance of Year’s Profits after
deducting Rebate on Ourrefit Bills,
Interest on Deposits, paying
Income, Land and other Taxes
amounting to £366,621/7/-, reduc-
ing valuation of Bank Premises,
providing for Bad and Doubtful
Debts, and fluctuations in the
value of Investment Securities,
and including recoveries from Debts
I previously written off as bad ..£734,699 3 5
£898,177 13 11
RESERVE FUND, 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930.
Cr.
To Balance (used in the business of
the Bank) £6,160,000 0 0
£6,150,000 0 0
dsf
A. C. DAVIDSON, General Manager
P. D. HOBBS, Chief Accountant.
Audited, 12th November, -1930.
W. E. SOUTHERDEN 1
SHEPHEARD E. LAIDLEY J
Auditors.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
m
i/s
to
w
sV
>v\"
SS&
tfSVB
SEAL Of GUARANTEE
ON NECK OF EVERY BOTTU
ETAT MEANS
"STATE vu
OWNED BY THE .
STATE OF FRANCE
BOTTLED &cuaranteed
PURE BY THE TRENCH
The .Guarantee of the
French Government,
both as to the authen*
ncity and the purity of
Vichy Etat Waters, is
of great importance to
the Medical profession
and to consumers.
CELESTINS is the
NAME Of THE SPRING
BEAR THIS
IN MIND
■TZhe fallowing statement defies contradiction }
Many Mineral Waters nay be offered to you,
but, when you are recommended to take or when
you ask for VICHY WATER, what you mean
to have and what you should get (whether you
know it or not) is
CELESTINS
VICHY WATER
the only French Mineral Water owned by the
French Republic and bottled under its super-
vision.
Invaluable to prevent and cure gout, rheumat-
ism, uric gravel and all liver and kidney
* complaints.
Stocked by all leading hotels, clubs- restaurants,
chemists and stores throughout the <eorld.
Insist on CELESTINS VICHY WATER.
Gxamtne the facsimile opposite and refuse substitutes.
Sole Agents for
STATE
DISTRIBUTORS:
Australia : MAURICE PELLETIER,
VICTORIA:
Messrs. Curcier Adet & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., 119 William St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. A. E. and F. Tolley, Ltd..
82 Wavmouth Street, Adelaide.
16 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. J. M. Seward and Co.,
Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd.,
WWf Street. Brisbane.
W&W26.
London Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
electrolytic zinc
BRAND brand
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association [S:
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
ill
*• .
H
if
m,
w
V- ■
T '•■
/ :
s
0T
mm
m
With MAWSON
to the South Pole!
&a
BATTERIES
Join the "Discovery” Expedition
“Diamonds” register another triumph—their association with this histone event
to their Quality Onlv highest-grade equipment was selected ever? thin,, must stand up t
exacting S graelling tests-and in deciding on Diamond Batteries for the scientific apparatus
those in charge of the expedition acknowledge the supremacy of these famous Australian
Batteries.
THE LATEST TRIPLE CAPACITY DIAMOND “B”
Finest for Country Conditions!
BATTERIES
These are the most powerful Radio Batteries in the Diamond Range. They enable you to
secure distant stations clearly and accurately—they possess amazing power, and are distm
ffltedSSWi, perfect, ideal reception. Diamond Triple-capacity Batten*
are built to give continuous service—for endurance, reliability and long life they
TRIPLE ‘capacity, 45 VOLT, 25/-; HEAVY DUTY, 45 VOLT, 20/-
DIAMOND TORCH UNITS
practically all standard types of Torches. , . . , ~ u ,
1 1 Standard Round, Bd.; 1$ Intermediate Round, 7 a d.; 4 2 Volt Flat, 1/-
Diamond “Starter” Ignition and Home Lighting Batteries •
„ . ....... r»_ ttrrraiir-jrt” nii+fito Pnrtahlp TiifirVitinsf Outfits
Coils, Electric Models, etc. , , y.„
Ask /or Illustrated Booklet of Diamond Products—Mailed Free to You.
Direct Factory Distributors:
THE HENDON ELECTRICAL COMPANY,
GROUND FLOOR, “WHITEHALL,” BANK PLACE, MELBOURNE, Cl.
’PHONE: F 4952.
Interstate Representatives
N.S.W.: KEG. ROSE & COMPANY, SYDNEY
S A - NEWTON McLaren, LTD. .. ADELAIDE
LOUIS COEN (S.A.), LTD. . . ADELAIDE
A G HEALING, LTD ADELAIDE
QUEENSLAND: J. B. CHANDLER BRISBANE
WA • CARLYLE & COMPANY PERTH
TASMANIA W. & CL GENDERS PTY., LTD., LAUNCESTON
iADMAwiA. ATTVI7D OTV TTn HOBART
OLIVER & OLIVER PTY., LTD.
W-McF.


> . • 6
m
d
h.
m
r3r-
■* ;
? #
V I
I s
/ i A • /
MUjWiffHWS.
♦
/
n
A
1
2
r.
X-i S
/Tv
4//."
Glow- wofwi cades
of Waitomo a/c a
fai/ij c'lhj imd&ifaroimcb
IMAGINE coming from the prosaic light of day
into a fairy city, through palace after palace of
stalactite wonders, through the Sculptor’s Studio,
with its delicate statuary, into the stately Banqueting
Hall, the Cathedral, and into the dazzling lights of
the Glow-worm Caves. Your boat steals forward
on a river of dark opal. Overhead the darkness is
pierced as by a million stars, reflected in the water.
There is silence . . . lest the delicate glowing insects
take alarm. You hold your breath and marvel at this
eighth wonder of the world, the Glow-worm Grotto.
Come to
YWIZ MIN
FILL IN THIS COUPON
and post it addressed to—N.Z.
Govt. Office, Martin Place, Sydney.
Please send me illustrated Booklets and
full information about New Zealand.
Name
Address
SBBA
for a DIFFERENT
Holiday
be in
NEW
ZEALAND
8A
‘"Gotland—a barbaric peon'e. with whom one
had little or nothing in common. r
But that was before Bess Digby took
charge of Bir Alfred’s body and soul, along
with his other liabilities.
One of her Ladyship’s first acts in re-
organising the Hermitage was to overhaul
tne personnel, from the manager down to
the last rouseabout. She had not met the
shepherd Macalister, but had heard of him,
and what she had heard.convinced her that
lie was a dangerous person to have about
the place.
Sitting one morning at her husband’s
desk, which during the first year of their
marnage Bess occupied for an hour or two
daily while Alfred stood around to attempt
explanations of past ineptitudes, Bess sud-
> as k- e d him, placing a forefinger on
Allan s name in the paybook, “Alfred, did
you ever hear of the man who had the idea
that he could nurse a viper in his bosom
and not get bitten?”
‘Well, now that you mention it, I have
heard of something of the kind. But why
do you ask?”
“Because.” snapped his lady, “that is what
you are doing.”
“How so?” inquired Alfred, his lips
pursed.
Bess beckoned him to her side, and indi-
cated Macalister’s name in the paybook.
My dear Bess,” exclaimed Alfred, extend-
mg his elbows and twirling his moustaches,
a favorite gesture when he felt he was about
to be satisfactory, “Macalister is the best
man on the place. I really don’t under-
stand your allusion. Wiltshire says”
“Do you mean to stand there, Alfred, and
tell me you’re ignorant of, what the whole
countryside knows and talks about? Is
it”
“Oh, tut, tut, m’dear! I suppose you’re
alluding to the nonsense the man talks. The
land being cut up and all that sort of thing.
Good gracious, Bess, you don’t suppose I
take the slightest notice of what my men
say or think on questions of that kind.”
“If you don’t,” asserted Bess, “you are
disloyal to yourself and to me, and to
every other person of substance in the
country. In this country, sir, things are
possible that would be unthinkable in Eng-
land. You don’t understand, and prob-
ably you never will. You must leave this
matter to me. I shall put a period to the
man’s chatter, or get rid of him, and you
can take it from me, if he is discharged from
the Hermitage, the station people through-
out the country shall know of it.”
Sir Alfred, making acquiescent noises, as
who should say, “Well, I suppose you are
right; you always are,” made his way into
the garden to enjoy the morning sun.
Allan Macalister had laid up, against the
day when he would be taken to task by his
employer, such credit as he could command
in the province. His resources thus extended
beyond the little bit of money he and Jessie
had managed to put by. Colin Menzies, a
fellow Highlander and a prominent lawyer
in Moana, of pronounced radical views, had
on several occasions urged him to get a
place of his own, to the end that he might
reap the full benefit of his labors and be
politically unmuzzled. Menzies thought
much of Macalister. The strength and sin-
cerity of him and the magnetic personality
would one day be a tower of strength to
the Radical party if the man w r ere properly
handled, and Menzies, like all Highlanders,
the clan instinct within him strong, was
prepared to help Allan to his freedom.
“You’ll never get anywhere working on a
station, Mac.,” Menzies advised. “What you
ought to do is to capitalise your knowledge
of sheep and your fine appearance, and get
financed into a small place of your own.
You’d have some standing in the country
that way, and a free hand to work for the
cause.”
“But, Mr. Menzies,” Allan had objected,
“I have nothing at all in the way of
security.”
“Get away with you, man.” Menzies
laughed, “you don’t want it. You’re the
sort of man that men trust instinctively.
Now, look here, Mac.,” Menzies went on,
“you know as well as I do that your road
is going to be a rough one if you stay by
the Hermitage, or any other sheep station,
holding and expressing the views that you
do. They won’t put up with it. Likely
as not at no distant day you’ll be looking
for a laborer’s job.” Colin Menzies rose
from his chair and laid his hand on Allan’s
shoulder. “Mac.,” he said, and his voice
and manner expressed a deep conviction,
“I’m a democrat, a Radical to the very
marrow, but I say this: /When the Radical
party becomes a power in this country you
are the type of man that will have made
it so. Now I’ll tell you what I’ll do with
you. Whenever you’re ready for it I’ll get
you financed into a place of your own—a
lease, may be, with the right of purchase—
and I’ll guarantee you for the stock and
implements, and you’ll have no need to
think you’re beholden in any way to me.
We’ll make it a business deal, d’ye see?”
Allan was silent. He could find no words
to express adequately what he felt, but he
was glad to grip the big hand that Colin
Menzies extended to him.
Chapter NTT.
Riding to his home one evening at sunset
about four months after his conversation
with the Moana lawyer Allan was
approached by the station manager, James
Wiltshire, who notified him that his pre-
sence was required at the station office the
following, morning at eight o’clock.
“Have you any idea what Sir Alfred
wants to see me for?” Allan inquired.
“I have not,” confessed the manager;
“but I rather think it’s her Ladyship who
requires you.”
“In that case, Mr. Wiltshire,” remarked
Allan, dismounting from his horse, “we can
be sure it isn’t for the purpose of raising
my screw. Still,” he added, “I’ll be there
at the appointed hour.”
“By the way, Allan,” hesitated Wiltshire,
who not only knew when. he had a good
man, but was prepared to uphold him
against the prejudices of his superiors, “I
said I didn’t know what you were wanted
for, but I’ve an inkling that you’re going
to be tackled for identifying yourself with
the radical politicians. If that’s so, Allan,
I'm not surprised. The Radicals are all
for collaring the large holdings, and you’re
looked on as the leading Radical in this
county.”
“Mr. Wiltshire,” Allan answered, drawing
himself up and looking out over the un-
dulating acres of the Hermitage, “I’ve been
treated well on this place, and I think you’ll
admit I’ve treated the place well according
to my abilities. I’ve not a word to say
against yourself or Sir Alfred, or, for that
matter, against her Ladyship, though I
hardly know the woman. But this ques-
tion «f the bursting up of the large estates
lies so close to my heart, I’d give up every-
thing that men strive for so that I could
help to bring about the downfall of the
extensive holdings that lie a deadweight on
the neck of the country.”
“And would you not compensate the
owners?” inquired the manager.
“Doubtless they’ll be compensated, but
not at their own value. If I had my way,
Mr. Wiltshire, I’d compensate them at about
the same rate as the Maoris were compen-
sated. Damn it all, main, where’s the sense
in travelling thirteen thousand miles to
found a suburb of London! This country
is a land of opportunity, but we’ve got to
seize while the opportunity offers. I’ll tell
you what it is, sir, as sure as we’re stand-
ing here. Our generation will see a couple
o’ hundred farmers ploughing all this.”
Allan, the bridle rein looped through his
right arm, stood with his back to his
horse’s head, gazing out towards the setting
sun. his left arm extending and sweeping to
indicate the boundaries of the Hermitage
station.
Mr. Wiltshire, a plain work-a-day man,
was at a loss to understand why anyone
should risk his future for an idea. He did
not pretend to understand the politics of
the old land or the new. He liked to be
comfortable and well thought of by his em-
ployers. Where did this shepherd of his
imbibe these strange ideas? It wasn’t as
if he were an empty blatherskite, such as
could be heard in the Maxwelton hotels any
sale day. No, Macalister was a sensible man
whose knowledge of stock was second to no-
one’s in the country. He had a good job
and a fine wife, and he would assuredly one
day be a station manager. Fine position;
well thought of by everybody; secure for
life; a hundred and fifty pounds a year; a
free house and free mutton! And the fool
was like to throw it all to the winds because
he wanted to open the country for Tom,
Dick and Harry!
“Allan,” be said kindly, “don’t you
honestly think that you would be happier
climbing to the top among the sheep than
mixing yourself with political men who
mostly can’t manage their own affairs, let
alone the affairs of the country?”
Allan looked straight at- his manager, but
maintained a long silence before he replied.
“I don’t know that I am a Radical or any-
thing else. 1 take no stock in political
names, and a party’s policy means little
to me if it doesn’t contain some sort of
proposal to rectify the land system of the
country. I am mixed up, as you call it,
with the Radicals only because I have more
chance of achieving something in their ranks.
Nothing can be expected from the Tories.”
Wiltshire, being interested not so much in
Macalister’s political convictions as in re-
taining him as a shepherd, suggested that
he should keep a still tongue in his head
if her Ladyship in the morning should say
anything about his politics, and reminded
him that she was a hard woman.
“I’ll say, Mr. Wiltshire, what I’ve a mind
to say,” Allan replied with some warmth,
“with all respect to you; and if her Lady-
ship spurs me to it, she’ll find I’m no lick-
spittle.”
“But,” objected the manager, “what will
you do if she discharges you?”
“Isn’t it better to be discharged a man
than to remain a spunkless toady?” was
Allan’s reply. “There is one of that ilk on
the place now.” he added. “That’s surely
enough.”
“I know who you mean, I think,” haz-
arded Wiltshire.
“Ho!” exclaimed Allan. “There’s no
secret about it. I mean Angus Ross. He’s
a snake in the grass, and I’ve told him so to
his face more than once. If I go he’ll get
my place, and then, Mr. Wiltshire—you
won’t mind me saying it—look out that he
doesn’t get yours!”
“Ah, well! we won’t go into that,” said
Wiltshire, mounting his horse. “But if it
can be possibly helped, Allan, I don’t want
to lose you. I can say no more, so I’ll
bid you good-night.” And he rode off.
For a long time Allan remained in the
twilight lost in thought. At the end he
confided to his horse, “I doubt we’re at the
end of our career with the Hermitage
station, old fellow.”
(To be continued next iccclc.)


AWAY
cpoos SPEC M<,
Sr
£
\
Right away ! The crane on the goods
platform ceases work. The goods special,
heavily laden, moves slowly under the
loading gauge and out from the siding, on
to the “up” line.
When you own a Hornby Railway you
are able to operate it in exactly the same
manner as railwaymen operate the big rail-
ways. The Hornby Locomotives—clock-
work and electric —are built for big loads.
Hornby Rolling Stock includes every type
in use on the big railways, and there is also
a complete range of Accessories to add
further realism.
Every hour spent in playing with a
Hornby Railway is brimful of thrills and
enjoyment. You will be proud of your
Hornby Train when you have tested it and
discovered its splendid qualities.
HORN
BOOKoe TRAINS
' &
The 1930 Hornby
Book of Trains
The 1930 edition of
this famous book con-
tains a store of interest-
ing railway articles in
addition to full colour
illustrations of all Hornby
Trains, Rolling Stock
and Accessories.
You may obtain a copy
from any dealer, price 6d.
If you have any diffi-
culty, send six penny
stamps and the names
and addresses of three of
your chums direct to us
for a copy, post free.
HORNBY TRAINS
Prices of
Hornby Trains
from
10/- to 160/-
Wholesale Agents
in Australia
E. G. PAGE
& CO.
(DEPT. U)
52 Clarence St
SYDNEY
(P.O. Box 1832 K)
manufactured
BY
MECCANO I/TD.,
LIVERPOOL.
ENGLAND.
i
9
A
Legal Notice. f
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEAV SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction,
No. 1321 of 1930.
Between DONA MINETTA WOOD Petitioner
And HAROLD OWEN WOOD Respondent.
To HAROLD OWEN WOOD late of Wollongong.
TAKE NOTICE that the said DONA MINETTA
WOOD has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a dissolution
of her marriage with you on the grounds of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three (3) years
and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said suit at
the proper office of this Honorable Court on or before
the eighteenth day of February One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-one and in the event of your
not so doing within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the Petition filed herein may
be had on application to the undersigned solicitor
free of charge.
Dated the twenty-seventh day of November One
thousand nine hundred and thirty.
For the Registrar,
C. If. BODY (L.s.),
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
L. G. Tanner,
Solicitor for the Petitioner,
lie Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
\Y/ILL anyone knowing the whereabouts
W of HARRY SALMON (son of John
Salmon and Mary Philp Tre.thewey), aged
about 80, please communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Hobart, Tasmania.
BIRKMYRE S CLOTH
(Regd. Trade Mark.)
In addition to “BIBKMTRE’S CLOTH be-
ing a Registered Trade Mark the following
are also Registered Trade Marks, each com*
plete in itself.
“BX” “H" “S” and “K”
“L” “OM” “M” and “N”
Any one of these marks will proteot your
interests
Th “ GOUROCK
Ropework
Export Co.
LTD.
379 Kent-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Charlotte-street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Vlinders-street, Melbourne, Vic.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distiguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Francis de Witt Batty, the new Bishop
of Newcastle, lias always been a popular
cleric here. He is exceedingly tall and fresh-
complexion ed, and has a pleasant voice, which
he uses to advantage in the singing of Eng-
lish madrigals. He was regarded as a con-
firmed celibate until he met the dainty
little matron of a Brisbane hospital who is
now his wife. The Bishop comes of an
old English family, which caused him to be
spoken of as “the parson with 16 quarterings
in his coat of arms’’ when he first arrived in
Australia. He resigns his Brisbane job on
Feb. 28.
Before the Royal Geographical Society
Mr. E. E. Edwards (Brisbane “Telegraph”)
gave impressions of liis recent tour through
the Holy Land. Colored lantern slides illus-
trated the lecture, at which Archbishop
Duhig presided. The Wailing Wall of Jeru-
salem was shown, and the tomb of Lazarus.
Under the auspices of the Historical
Society Tom Welsby delivered an uncom-
monly interesting address on old times in
Queen-street, Brisbane. The speaker re-
called the days when Cobb and Co.’s coaches
went past his home on the Bundamba-road,
one driven by the father of present Trea-
surer Barnes. The coaches came through
Kangaroo Point to the ferry. John Petrie
was the only builder in Queen-street then,
and there were 22 hotels. Of the 27 solici-
tors then practising only George Markwell,
of Innisfail, survives.
Betty Carter, daughter of Major and Mrs.
H. R. Carter, of Nunnington, Kangaroo
Point, announces her engagement to Colin
Anderson Gray, only son of Mr. W. A. Gray,
of Bowral, N.S.W.
Had she lived another three months Mrs.
Mary Ann Hainsworth, of Ipswich, would
have reached her century. She was born at
Little Bolton, Lancashire, and came to
Queensland with her husband and six child-
ren. She leaves four daughters, 20 grand-
children, 46 great-grandchildren and five
great-great-grandchildren.
The students of the Women’s College, Kan-
garoo Point, had a dance amidst a setting
of Oriental lanterns as a farewell party for
1930. Freda Bage was there in black lace.
Supper was on the lawn and dancing in
the common-room and on the balconies.
Nellie Bramley was entertained at the
Carlton cabaret prior to her departure for
Perth. A good house farewelled the Bramley
company at its last night, the 104th. in the
Royal; colored streamers flew, “Auld Lang
Syne” was sung, and Nellie, her arms full
of flowers, made a pretty little speech.
Lena Hammond and May Jordan were
soloists at the production of “The Messiah”
by the State Orchestra and the Municipal
Choir in the City Hall. Lena was in daffodil,
patterned in blue ; May in white satin, J. E.
England and W. W. Crisp were the male
soloists. In the audience were the Premier
and Mrs. Moore, Mrs. Godfrey Morgan,
Dorothy Hopkins, J. P. Wallis and many
other music-lovers.
Vance Palmer’s play “Christine” was pro-
duced by the Repertory Society to good attend-
ances at Cremorne for three nights. First-
nighters included the Mayor and Mrs. Jolly,
the Stanley Chapmans, the Lockhart Gibsons,
Mrs. Frank Corrie and various Uni. professors.
Professor Stable addressed the audience, and
announced the offer by the Repertory Society
of a prize of 50 guineas for the best. play
by an Australian writer submitted before
March 31 next. An orchard in Victoria is
the setting of “Christine.” Dulcie Scott
played the name-part with her customary
charm; Jum Pendleton was Arthur Rankin,
Leo Guyatt was George, and Babette Fer-
guson and Beryl Telford were Arthur’s two
daughters, Mary Luya was Freda and
Douglas Henderson, Brian. G. B. Eaton did
the producing admirably.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Eleven-day engagements don’t leave much
time for trousseau parties for the bride-elect,
but Mrs. Alex. Williams managed to squeeze
in a linen-tea and bridge for the afternoon
before Pete Moustaka’s wedding. The prin-
cipal guest wore navy satin with lime-green
cuffs and collar, and Mrs. Williams chose
white voile embroidered in blue by Swiss
fingers. Her attractive and brand-new house
in Mt. Lawley was filled with larkspurs and
sprays of gladioli.
Another festivity brought about by the same
wedding was a dinner-dance given by
Ambrose Cummings at Mt. Yokine. Victuals
were spread in the dining-room, dancing was
on the verandah, and midget golf made a
diversion on the lawn.
A morning wedding at the Colin-street
kirk was chosen by Pete Moustaka and
Ambrose Cummings. Lobelia-blue georgettes
with a pale pink vestee and wee pink bows
down the back of the cape fashioned the
bride’s gown; the roses she carried, were a
shade deeper than her pink crinoline hat.
Sister Orea attended in primrose and white,
with primrose millinery and a bouquet of
cloth-of-gold roses. The mid-day sailing of
the Manunda allowed no time for a reception,
but a crowd of well-wishers motored to Fre-
mantle to hold good-bye streamers.
Daisy Main is busy packing her trunks
for the Moreton Bay, which takes her Big
Smokewards early in December.
A card-shuffling organised by a committee
of old girls of Loretto and held in the Picca-
dilly ballroom raised £4O for the Little Sisters
of the Poor. Bernie O’Dea, in pink pricked
with crystal beads; Alice Walsh, whose white
chiffons fluttered large flower heads; and
Muriel Jacobs, looking nice in floral georg-
ettes, were noticed among the busy helpers.
There were barely enough chairs to accom-
modate the crowd that managed to squeeze
itself into the Repertory rehearsal room for
the club’s last, musical afternoon of this year.
Edith Harrliy was the attraction. In a
beige frock and a wide-brimmed hat she
sang and played pieces of her own composi-
tion. Florence Besley, who arranged the
programme, looked smart in a navy ensemble
intricately piped with white. Youthful Ruth
Anderson played her fiddle, and Marjorie
Butler in greeny chiffons and an attractive
black hat spoke some verse and prose. Mrs.
Everett sang artistically in her deep con-
tralto. Mrs. D. D. Baton, Violet Holmes,
Mrs. Rose Atkinson and daughter Billie,
Elsie Milne, Mrs. S. J. Anderson and Joan
Gariss w T ere among the listeners.
In St. Mary’s, Colin-street, Hilda Watkins
and Harry Merry promised to love and
cherish one another. The all-white bride wore
a froth of tulle veil over her ivory satin
gown and carried white roses, carnations and
lilies. Alice Biggs and Mamie Harris
attended in primula-pink frocks and lacy
straw millinery with a rose nestling under j
each brim. Toasts were honored at the i
Ivarrakatta Club.
Dr. and Mrs. Golledge have returned from
a health and pleasure trip abroad.
The Antoine couple invited members of
the Alliance Franchise to wind up the
society’s activities for this year with a cup
of tea and a load of chatter in their “Cer-
nay” garden. Madame moved among her
guests in black georgettes and a shiny black
hat. Mrs. Despeissis, Winnie Hinde, the
M. P. Ihlens, Miss E. Curran, Marjorie
McKnight, Lesley Vincent, Daphne and Betty
de Bernales, Gwen Dowson, Mme. Blottiere
and Mile. D’lry were in the throng.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide. j
Tom Bone, who learned his art in Mel-
bourne and won a Vic. five-year scholarship,
is now an instructor in the Education De-
partment of S.A. His water-colors shown
at Adelaide Society of Arts Gallery vary
pleasantly from landscape to the inevitable
brass-and-glass still-life. His best work is
in this latter branch, and in massive build-
ings from Port Arthur and other parts of
ancient Tasmania.
Adelaide still has some money to spend on
pictures. It rather surprised itself by buying
50 of Beatrice Chettle’s dainty paintings
at that lady’s show.
John Augustus Poutt, manager long ago
of Carmoona and Mundi Mundi (N.S.W.)
and Mingary (S.A.), settled near Blumberg,
in the Adelaide hills, over 40 years ago, and
has just died there. His sons have large
holdings in the district, which changed its
name to Birdwood during the war and earned
a personal visit from the general.
Dead in Adelaide, E. L. A. Leggett, who
got his training in the Vic. Railways Depart-
ment, was chief clerk for the Commonwealth
when the East-West railway was con ;
structed, and
settled in Adel-
aide 10 years
ago as account-
ant to tlie
Perry Engin-
eering Co. lie
was only 44 at
tlie end.
The engage-
ment h a s
just been
wnounced of
Mr. Fred
nruce’s pretty
daughter Pat-
ricia, whose
po r trait by
Rembrandt is
inset, to Nor-
man, son of
Mr. Napier
Birks.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Mrs. K. Mclntyre, intrepid producer for
the Launceston Players, delivered the goods in
the shape of “Ambrose Applejohn’s Adven-
ture.” Dr. Holman was a success in the
name part, and Edith Henry as Anna the
dancer, played up to him splendidly.
The Discovery had a great send-off. The
Mawson lady had superintended the issue of
clothing for all hands and spent a lot of time
on the ship. The Lyceum Club tendered her
a reception. Mrs. Hungerford gave a bridge
party in her honor, and there were num-
berless small dinners and tea parties for the
voyagers.
The N. P. Booths have returned to their
home at Claremont after their trip to the
other side of the world. The Frank Gum-
mows, father and daughter, are also back
from their two years’ absence in Europe.
Miss O’Grady is beginning a round
of farewells. Mrs. Lloyd Oldmeadow host-
essed a small dinner party at Hadley’s
in her honor. Other guests were Mrs. Stoyles,
Mrs Fred Clarke, Nancy Giblin, the Gray
girls, Betty Sale, Capt. Stoyles, N. E.
Somers, London Macleod, Brendon Clarke, L.
Nettlefold and Bobs Clarke.
A quiet wedding in St. Aidan’s, Lindis-
farne, was that of Irwin Boyd Knight and
Alice Beatrice Elliston, daughter of the
Vivian Ellistons. The bride wore parch-
ment satin and a lace veil in capette style.
The ’maids were Molly Elliston, Dorothy
Knight and Babs Brammall, in yellow, blue
and green georgette respectively, and pale
yellow fancy straw hats. The bride’s parents
entertained a number of guests after the
ceremony. .
The Gordon Rolphs are back in Launceston
after their European trip, and Dr. and Mrs.
Cole, of Deloraine,. have returned from
Malaya.
Theo, only chick of the late C. K. Old-
meadow, announces her engagement to Cap-
tain J. A. Pringle, M.C., Royal Welsh Fusi-
liers, second son of the C. L. Pringles, Cam-
brai, Hobart.
THE SUGAR EMBARGO.
It is constantly being charged against the
Queensland Sugar Industry by its Freetrade
enemies that it has been singled out by the
Federal Parliament for specially favorable
and privileged treatment, and by every arti-
fice of innuendo and suggestion its detractors
have sought to create an impression in the
public mind that the embargo on the im-
portation of foreign sugar is the only em-
bargo operating in the Commonwealth to
protect any Australian industry from unfair
external competition. „, TT * tvt
The truth is, however, that MORE THAN
ONE HUNDRED AUSTRALIAN PRI-
MARY AND SECONDARY PRODUCTS
ENJOY THE PROTECTION OF AN
EMBARGO. The Sugar Embargo is merely
one of a numerous company. The list of
goods and commodities expressly prohibited
from importation to Australia includes
the following: Glucose, Confectionery,
Cheese, Biscuits, Canned and Dried Fruits,
Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, Soap, Starch,
Wines, Cigarettes, Cigars, Ales, Beers, Gela-
tine, Lemons, Oranges, Candles, Nuts, Bolts,
Barbed Wire, Steel Beams, Harrows,
Threshers, Harvesters, Portland Cement,
Blankets, Rugs, etc., etc.
Strange to say, not one of the producers
of the above products has ever been re-
-1 proached for having secured the protection
of an embargo. The hatred of embargo-
phobes has been reserved for the Queensland
Sugar Industry alone. .
The only really singular feature about the
Sugar Industry’s position is that the pi ice
of sugar is fixed by law, and sugar P 1 ’ 0-
ducers, therefore, are precluded from exploit-
ing the consumers in any circumstances. No
other industry protected by an embargo has
been subjected to a like condition, and they
are all at liberty, if they choose, to exploit
the consumer to the full extent of their
capacity. be note( j that the Sugar
Embargo has a highly honorable history.
During the first seven years of its imposi-
tion (1915-1921, both years it
saved Australian consumers f 15,680,900
(exclusive of duty), which sum represents
the net difference between the price ot
foreign sugar, duty free, and the actual cost
of Australian sugar to the people of this
country during that period. And over the
whole Embargo period from 1910 up to date
(counting duty) it saved the Aujralian
consumer a net amount of ±2 7,24U,wu
The above facts are irrefutable and un-
challengeable. The opponents of the Queens-
land Sugar Industry, indeed, have not dis-
puted them. When confronted with the his-
tory of the Embargo, the enemies of the
industry hastily take refuge behind the pre-
sent low prices of foreign sugar, which, as
they well know, is due to over-production
abroad and is a phenomenon that cannot last
an hour longer than the day when surplus
foreign stocks will have been absorbed.
“Never mind the past!” the Freetraders cry:
“It’s aver and done with! Foreign sugar F
available to-day at a very low price, and
Australian consumers ought to be able to
take advantage of it!"
The answer to that inexpressibly mean con-
tention is simply this: Australian consumers
cannot be given the illusory and evanescent
benefit of cheap black-grown foreign sugar
except at the cost of obliterating, the Queens-
land sugar industry, which, during the past
sixteen years, has saved them £27,240,00u.
The destruction of an industry that has
served the nation so well would surely be
a high price to pay for a purely ephemeral
boon of cheapness. It would involve turn-
ing 30,000 white Australian workers m
Queensland adrift to join the army of un-
employed. It would stop the production ot
£10,000,000 of new wealth now annually
created by the Queensland industry. It
would deprive 120,000 Queensland residents
of their present means of livelihood. It
would destroy £50,000,000 of capital invested
in the industry. And it would deprive
manufacturers and producers in the boutli-
ern States of Australia of a market that
is worth many millions per annum to them.
All this and more would assuredly happen
if the Sugar Embargo were removed, and
then, what of the future? Foreign sugar
will not always be available at the present
low price. Once destroy the Queensland
Sugar Industry what insurance would re-
main to consumers against exploitation by
foreign sugar interests when the present
world sugar glut is over? In past times
we have often had to pay upwards of £9b
per ton for foreign sugar when there was a
shortage of local production. Would not.
this happen again? It cannot be too often
repeated that the national interest makes
it imperative to protect our Sugar Industry
effectively during the existing world glut,
because in no other. possible way can we
defend ourselves from being ruthlessly
fleeced by foreign sugar interests when 1 normal
world conditions are restored. The history
of the Queensland Industry, moreover, is a
living proof that it thoroughly deserves this
indispensable protection. — Advt.


EOTHEN
m
yy 128 East Terrace
332 Wakefield St-
ADELAIDE
UNEXCELLED CUISINE
GARAGE
Tariff, £4-4-0
PAYING GUESTS" Mr*. PARKER
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
1 WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
D No. 762 of 1930.
Between EDNA BRIEDIS Petitioner
And ALBERT BRIEDIS Respondent
To ALBERT BRIEDIS late of 10 Wolsely Road,
Point Piper, Gardener.
Riutmo NOTICE that the abovenanied EDNA
LKiLDIh has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a Decree for
Restitution of Conjugal Rights on the grounds that
yon have on and since about the fourth day of
January 1930 withdrawn from cohabitation with her
and have kept and continued away from her without
any just cause or excuse whatever and from thence
ni.ii without any such cause have refused and
Tarender to her conjugal rights AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office of
this Honorable Court on or before the seventeenth
cay ot February next and in the event of .your not
'ding so within the time limited or obtaining fur-
ther time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
. heard and determined your absence notwithstand-
ing. A copy of the Petition tiled herein mav be had
on application to the undersigned Solicitors free of
charge.
Dated this 18th day of November, 1930.
For the Registrar,
C. K. BODY,
w „ r ~ Chief Clerk in Divorce.
Neville W. Montagu and Laptliorne,
Solicitors for Petitioner, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
_ ; Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN HEEL SUPPORT.
'"THE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 4680/26 is prepared to negotiate for
the sale of its rights in the above, or for
the granting of a license to make, use and
vend the invention within the Commonwealth
of Australia. Particulars of the invention
obtainable from Griffith, Hassel & Griffith.
Asbestos House, York & Barrack Streets,
Sydney. (Box 2133 L, G.P.0., Sydney.)
Legal Notice.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1500 of 1930.
Between IVY EVELYN THOMPSON Petitioner
And CECIL EDWARD THOMPSON Respondent.
To CECIL EDWARD THOMPSON late of North
Sydney.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Ivy Evelyn Thompson
has commenced a suit against you in this Honorable !
Court and has applied for a dissolution of marriage !
on the grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse AND TAKE !
NOTICE that you are required to enter an appearance ;
to the said suit at the proper office of this Honorable j
Court on or before the eighteenth day of February
One thousand nine hundred and thirty and in the
event of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will proceed
and the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the Petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
Solicitors free of charge.
Dated this 19th day of November, One thousand
nine hundred and thirty.
W. A. WINDEYER, FAWL & CO.,
Solicitors for the Petitioner,
25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
For the Registrar,
[l.s.] C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
MODELS & TOYS for CLEVER BOYS
m
“WARNEFORD” MODEL
FLYING AEROPLANES
The Popular British Models.
“Moth.” 18in. span .... 8/6
Post: N.S.W., i/S ; Q’land, Vic., 1/9
“Demon.” 23in. span .. 14/6
Post: N.S.W., 1/3; Q’land, Vic., 1/9
“Swift.” 28in. span .... 19/6
Post: N.S.W., 1/6; Q’land, Vic., 2/3
“Racer.” Twin-geared.
31 in. span 38/6
Post: N.S.W., 1/6; Q’land, Vic., 2/3
Write for our Special 10-page List of Aeroplanes and Materials.
Bowman British
Steam Launches.
20in. hull . . . 32/6
23in. hull . . . 42/6
28in. hull, with
7in. boiler . 67/6 Bowman “Eagle” Launch, 67/6
Clockwork Launches, with wooden hulls, most attractively
finished. I 3in. hull 13/6, 1 6in. hull 21/-, 18in. hull 29/6.
We have many others ranging up to £6/17/6 illustrated in
our catalogue.
Donkey Model Steam Engines from 7/6 to £lO/10/-
We do not pay freight on toys.
Write for our popular 1 12-page Toy Catalogue.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON, LTD., 395 George St., Sydney
rri
“IXL” Carbide
When forwarding your next order for Carbide
insist on being supplied with
“IXL” Brand.
It is manufactured in Australia
and is guaranteed by the manufacturers to be
at least equal to the British Acetylene
Association standard quality.
When using “IXL” Brand you are helping an
all-Australian industry to flourish.
If unable to obtain from your supplier
write direct to the undersigned:
H. Jones & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
HOBART, TASMANIA, Sole Distributing Agents
for
The Australian Commonwealth Carbide Co., Ltd.,
Electrona, Tasmania.
DISTRIBUTORS FOR N.S.W.:
ALLEN-LIVERSIDGE, LTD., Hutchison Street, Annandale.
BRANDTS, LTD., 135 Sussex Street, Sydney.
GARDNER-WAERN & CO. PTY., LTD., 225 Clarence Street, Sydney.
NOYES BROS, LTD., Clarence Street, Sydney.
For
Christmas
*&*
m
i
“Is this correct ? ”
IN the glorious out of doors, at gay functions, at the merry
party and at quite a host of Christmas festivities, inquiring
. eyes will be directed upon your clothes. The awkward
predicament of not knowing whether your attire is style-correct
never happens if you choose Murdoch clothes.
In clean cut lines, graceful style and in the many details of
distinction, Murdoch clothes give the direct answer, —
s!—it is
Murdoch-made ”
The latest fancy Tweed Sports Coats for
men. Smartly cut in a full range of sizes.
These coats are extremely popular for
holiday wear. Murdoch’s Special value . .
19/6
Sports Suits
Men’s Sports Suits in all-wool Australian
Tweeds, Coat cut with pleats at back,
patch pockets. Latest pattern effects,
ready for service
In other qualities and fabrics at 55/-,
63/-, 75/- and 84/-
45/-
Murdoch’s
0
SELF GRIPPING
SPORTS TROUSERS
“Kmc Belt” self-gripping Sports Trousers. No belts or braces required.
Murdoch s exclusive "Knic Belt” has an elastic belt hidden from view.
In Cream
Gabardine
17/6
Sports Shirts
Splendid quality Sports Shirts.
Attached collar. Pop-
lin-de-Luxe, plain Ivory
shade
6/11
In Grey
Flannel
22/6
Sand Shoes
Men’s White Canvas, with white
rubber soles, built for ex-
ceptionally good service
With crepe rubber soles . . 4/11
3/11
7he Giving of Gifts
Murdoch’s have just issued a special Christinas Booklet,
which will be of great service to you. It shows clearly the
Gifts suitable for men, and another for ladies, which can be
purchased for a certain sum—such as 5/-, 7/6, 10/-, and so
on. Send for this beautifully illustrated Folder—it is
quite free!
If writing, kindly address your letter to DESK “R
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR.


BIG FACTS
you need to know
1
2
3
4
Goodyear Tyres are
Made in Australia —
and have been for 3 years.
Goodyear Tyres cost
no more than other
A ustralian - made Tyres.
Goodyear Tyre Quality
is exemplified by the
All-Weather Tread 6* the
Supertwist Cord Carcass.
In Australia , as the
World over, more people
ride on Goodyear Tyres
than on any other make .
EAJBt
ii innn 11 ii ii i nil mil 11 HlllfTT
MADE IN AUSTRALIA


AS WE SAID BEFORE
This Page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
IW Bulletin— The bullock-driver is
rapidly becoming extinct, and it’s a pity.
He was the only genuine wholcsouled type
of man we ever had in Australia. His
“The N.Z. shopkeepers are now compelled by law to provide seats for their female employees.”
[2/7/’87.]
had the , true ring of the bush, and
“mnlfo sum-leaves and wattle, also of
-Tartarean sulphur and strange fire.” He
chum Z°J\Z XCept A- his bullocks or a new-
three of his curses went further
nr hnim t rom ?? yone else, either with men
hnllnnt a C^ S ‘ gpt drun k, -too, did this
sometimes, and then he made
Sn S^ U t - He got the Errors sometimes,
, ’ r , a . n out naked, on all fours, to
»n?lo P i' hlS bullocks, barking like a dog,
hnllnnV ’ haS ? van been known when one
rhe S Jtm miSSI V g t 0 yoke himself up with
start off nn S°H r ’ and ’ wbip in hand,
ncenr nfi,? a 1 35 ’,?., sta S e ; but this didn’t
-nnn n ft • ai - ld dldn ’t last long, for on
vnkinr lf 0D » 11: epded abruptly by a “trap”
i^r Up Wlth tlle bullocky and
station 3 4 f bc !' lne f .° r the nearest police
station. Next to cursing the bullocky was an
artist with his fists. He could and would
fight, and he fought with or without cause,
whichever came first, with frequency and
tury. YY ell I mmd the time two bulloekies
met at a camping-ground at the foot of the
iloonbies at an old hut. Both unyoked
together and both wanted to bake. Both
&ot gum-bark and put it on the fire together,
and eight or nine bulloekies looked on in
silence and suspense. Each emptied out his
Hour and began to mix it into a damper:
uien both reached for the shovel together,
and the storm burst. Outside they went and
battered each other for 80 minutes and
paused for breath. Said one: “This won’t get.
my damper into the fire,” and began to pull
his shirt over his battered and blood-stained
head. The other said nothing, and all went
back to the liut, and the dampers were cooked
in silence.—Yours, H. J. Mac.
Heathens are people who don’t quarrel
over religion.
Air English magistrate, at Chester, has
established a valuable, precedent by binding
over an elderly spinster in the sum of flu
not to sing in church any more. According
to the evidence, the lady had a high, gritty
voice and never by any chance struck the
right tune, and, moreover, she was generally
two or three notes in arrear. When she
sang the choir had to stop to laugh, and
then the spinster boomed along by herself,
and utterly demoralised the organist. The
most, vigorous remonstrances couldn’t induce
her to leave off singing, so she- was brought
before the police, court with the above-
mentioned result.
I [Sappho Smith] wonder if the high
Victorian marriage-rate, of which we have
lately heard so much, is due to the existence
ot that flourishing Melbourne matrimonial
agency where for two and six you can be
introduced to eligibility in the parlor
across the hall? In the interests of The
Bulletin your Sappho was ushered into
tlie parlor the other day. It was a small,
square' room, dark even in the morning,
ciammed with soft furniture ahd floored with
noiseless, velvety carpet. Portieres shrouded
the door; there was a sofa, of course, and a
piano at which the victims (you fill in what
are your accomplishments in the schedule
of application) go through their musical
paces during awful interviews. The gas
globes were pink; a nude pink-colored “Love”
hung over the gasolier; the air was thick
with a sweet, sickly scent, and was it alto-
gether chance that the pictures on the wall
\vere. mostly life-like studies from the nude v
In the stuffy languorous, atmosphere the lady
who does the introducing—a small woman
with a black fringe on her forehead and
heavily scented —consented to explain things
Doctors, lawyers and clergymen (there were
many on her books then) infested the agency
she said, and she was simply a society match-
maker on a large scale. Of course anybody
could apply if they wunted te, but-the agency
was quite a tony establishment. Of course
only two people are allowed to meet at a
time, so there were five parlors in case of
a boom— all furnished like this,” with a
wave of a dingy palm to the pictures, the
sofa, thepiaho; “People laugh at agencies
but we do an immense serious business all
over Australia.” She told me that more
women apply for husbands than men for
wives, and the heiress invariably scoops up
a Darby for half a crown. But the gentle-
men pay a commission according to the
bride s income, the • lovely woman without
coin costing little over the preliminary two
and six, .while the Dill “to supplying one
heiress comes m regularly: with the gas
account for over a year. She gave me a
schedule m which you filled in more or less
accurate >,particulars as to “ago” (t) “ Der _
sonal appearance,” “general health,”’ “tem-
per. etc. tit reminded me of a horse-
dealer s catalogue), and I blinked my way-
out. In the hall a grimy child was swing-
ing on the front door, the finger-panels of
which were grease-mottled, and there was a
tamt smell of onions warring with the cloud
of patchouli that burst with me out of the
parlor. The very best people are our
a; t^ e , la(J y? “and you see our
s mple method is the same as ladies meeting
gentlemen in their own drawing-rooms. I
could show you dozens of letters thanking us
over and over again for the happiness we
have brought to the writers, and you would
be surprised at the signatures.” “Do these
letters come during the honeymoon?” asked
yours ever, innocently. “Mostly during the
honeymoon, blandly replied the lady.
The late owner, of a 'Melbourne Cup
winner is now dry-blowing at Ninety-Mile,
W estralia, but he is still cheerful and tells
some good stories. When his turf luck turned
He found himself one day with £16,000 to
pay and only £lO,OOO to pay it with. He
ultimately had to get the £6OOO from the
Jews on executing in their favor security
over ins ih racehorses, it being agreed that
he should work them for a year on account
of the lenders, who. contracted to pay all
training expenses; which deal resulted at
the end of the year in the £6OOO indebtedness
being wiped out and the children of Israel
owing the Gentile turfite some hundreds of
pounds. The Chosen had soon got very tired
A THING “HOP SEES WHEN HE IS OUT (IN THE COUNTRY) WITH HIS
LITTLE GUN.
[Phil May was runing his famous series of "Things We See When We Came Out Without Our Gun"
when "Hop" dropped upon him on a country road taking horse-riding exercise, The drawing was
published 30/7/'87.]
of their bargain. They were eternally sug-
gesting, without avail, a compromise: “Bay
iis de moniseh,” they would say, “ant vc
vili let you have de horses. Ve don’t like
dese livesdocks. Our exberience mit live-
sdocks is nod goot. Vor instdance, ve once
met a tamped scoundrel mit a circus and ve
lent him £6O for a month on de securidy of
a peeootiful tiger. Veil, he didn’t pay de
±lBO and vc foreclosed. Then the tamn
scoundrel brought us to de tiger, and, says
he, Now, yoost you take him afay.’ Und den
ve found V e had made a tamn fool of our-
self. Ve had forgot to take a mortgage on
de cage, and so ve couldn’t touch de brute,
rhe circus man vent afay and made a for-
tune. Ve don’t like dose livesdocks.”
What do you think is the very latest frisky
lll h°sen V [asks Sappho Smith 1.
fetoekings with pockets in them. Little
pockets up near the knee, and bearing
mottoes of a more or less familiar and en-
couraging character woven round about, none
of which I would venture to repeat, for the
world is always so suspicious of double-
meanings in everything. Of course, the
pocketed stockings won’t catch on to any
great extent—at least, I hope not. The
models I saw were made of silk—red and
dark blue, with a little red pocket—and if
any average woman innocently buys them,
with the idea that they’d be handy for tram
tickets, the result will be better than the
ballet when the guard comes round.
Soi ? e w 0 years ago an Auckland solicitor,
moved by unwonted compassion—or, per-
haps, being intoxicated—gave a sovereign
to a young woman in great distress, and
then lay low till Providence should send
him Ins reward. The unaccustomed emotion
which went through him on that honorable
occasion nearly blew his head off, and often
in after-days the memory of the good action
warmed his soul and made him feel better.
On a certain disastrous Friday, last month
his benevolence bore fruit, and his good
deed was returned to him a hundred-fold.
A Respectable old gentleman with white hair
called in and told him that the woman in
question was his erring daughter, now hap-
pily restored to him, and then he broke down
and wept so copiously on the table .that he
became unintelligible for nearly 15 minutes.
At last, however, lie revived, and blew liis
nose, and ,smothered the feelings which—in
his capacity as father—threatened to over-
come him, and explained that he had come
to; refund the twenty shillings. Business
being bad, and his office rent in arrears, the
lawyer gladly assented, and then the over-
whelmed parent gave him a bad £5 note
with tears in his eyes, and prayed that the
(l .°d of Abraham. Isaac and the other fellow
might bless the solicitor as he collared the
change. Iwo hours later the benefactor got
on to the situation, and then he blew the
window out with his language, and tore the
poker in two, and had to drag all his clothes
of to avert suffocation, and flv round the
room , with nothing on . except his qyeglass.
Tsext|tima he is called upon to do abenevo-
lent action he intends to restrain himself if
he has to climb over his mothers dead body
to do it.
Wanganui (N.Z.A, a forgotten little city
that sleeps among interminable sand-
hills. got up a race-meeting last month, and
the principal gentleman amateur distin-
guished himself in various unexpected ways
As h? was an extensive advertiser, however
he was let down easy by the press • but when
he rushed into the editor’s office next day
with thunder in his eye and a crumpled
letter in his hand, a terrible fear suddenly
arose that he hadn’t been let down easy
enough. “Look here,” he hollered as he
executed an impromptu pas seul all over the
room; "this dashed reporter of yours says
I my reins' in that infernal steeplechase.
at s the meaning of it? Who’s respon-
sible for this miserable outrage? Who did
it? I’m going for-the fellow, whoever he is !"
the editor assumed an attitude of shocked
surprise. “Dear -me, you don’t mean to say
that such a groundless assertion” “Oh
dash the assertion! What I want to know
is who did it?” “I assure you, my dear sir,
i t„ the unprincipled liar who perpetrated
that - "Oh, blow the unprincipled liar!
you passed the thing sir. You’re responsible,
lou say there that I lost my reins, and yet
you were on the ground yourself, and if you
weren t blind you might have seen that I let
the animal bolt with me at the start.
I lost my hat, too, only you were afraid
lost my head into the bargain !
Dnln t you see that, you— you-— you dashed
Ananias. I lost my saddle and my stirrups,
and burst my collar, and came in bane-ins'
ou by my spurs and the horse’s mane, and
ail the crowd hooted, and somebody threw a
hunk of mud at me, and when I fell off
at the last jump I saw you— you, sir—just
tailing to pieces with laughter. I was drunk
—hopelessly drunk —if you want to know
what was the matter, and you saw it all;
and there s no dashed excuse for your con-
duct in not publishing a correct account of
the proceedings. Don't let this sort of
happen again, please. Come out and
111 shout. You re not fit to be trusted with
a newspaper. ’ And the editor went out and
was shouted for like a man drinking in a
dream.
, n . , IN THE HUT.
had been telling stockwhip stories
1 j the tea in the old oil-keg was run out
and the smoke in the hut was thick enough
to be sawn. Toothey Hoskins remembered a
rellow on the Diamantina who could cut
down a cow with his whip, skin her, and
Ca r v e up the carcase. Spotted Boyd had
cut his way through two miles of thick
scrub with a new whip, and offered his
solemn oath” in corroboration. A white-
headed youth, newly arrived, had a relative
who could take a stockwhip in either hand
and write the Lord’s Prayer on the bark
0 i m white-gum with the left-hand weapon,
whilst playing a jig with the other on a
tin dish at five paces. Harry Clarke thought
that pretty considerable,” but lie had met
a tellow m Bourke who could pull corks
with every stroke of his whip, and wind up
a Waterbury watch by flicking at it from
reaching distance.
Presently the new arrival, with the clean-
sweep shave and crossbred eyes, ventured a
remark. He was an inconsistent man, who
had excited grave suspicion by saying
grace at tea, _ and had then disarmed sus-
picion by pooling a bottle of rum, big enough
to go round twice.
' kf; said, “in knockin’ round I’ve
met fellers that could give yeh a hair-cut an'
shave with a whip, nearly; but ’tain’t manv
ol em ken make their abilities pay. I’ve
only, struck one cove what gathered a pile
handling a stockwhip.
“What could he do with' it?”
Pick pockets.”
Silas Snell.
The very latest way to garnish dessert
dishes [writes Sappho Smith] backs up the
prevailing rage for the tout cn suite, and i„~
very artistic in effect. Oranges are arranged
on tiger-lilies, yellow jasmine, buttercups,
sunflowers: peaches are a poem heaped
among blush roses; cherries may lie on red
geranium; brown and yellow pears would
look like a dream if backed by autumn leaves
At a local dinner party the other even in."
the oranges were hid among roses, but the
flowers were too pale and the effect was
spoilt The correct caper is to have your
garnishings a daylight match. [29/11/’of! ]
THE POETS’ SMOKE CONCERT.
Swinburne, who drew metaphors: —•
If you were what the beer is,
And I the lemonade,
)V? d ™. ix i n countless shandies
(Despising s. and brandies)
A drink that never wearies,
I think the best that’s made.
It you were what the beer is
And I the lemonade.
If death were what the light is
And life were the cigar.
Then death life’s end would kindle
it should wane and dwindle
A. sentiment that trite is)
And soar in smoke afar
!f death w cre what the light is :
And life were the cigar.
m 11.
Tennyson, who was hazy: —
Beers foaming beers, I know not whence
they come,
??H e -£nrt he ’/ Ia - W an , d S atll er to a head.
And gently fizzing slow subside again
The throat and pleasant trave l down my
And so become the beers that are no more.
Ah, passing strange !—before me I 'perceive'
AiTd woSrf i? 1 t here was b ut one before;
A dght dfU ~ tW ° PlpeS - Alas - W
Swims round and' round. Ah, well. J know
It is, it is the beers that, are -no more.
111.
Walt Whitman . who rose to order
Hang it all, gentlemen,
quietly—hallo, there,
Mind what you’re up to,
You’ve spilt _all your beer down my shirt
front anjl put -out my oigarro
Here s to you all,-amigos. Byron, shut up—
Your singing would turn milk sour. Pass
the bottle. . -
IV.
Dobson, who trioletted :—
Fill. the foaming gla'ss."
Bight the cheerful weed.
Let all grave thoughts pass,
H ill the foaming, glass ;
Last man drunk's an ass.
Bhuukt and then with speed
rill, the foaming glass, 1
Light the cheerful weed.
R.G.H.
THE TWO PRAYERS.
Imploring oft the aid divine,
There came to visit Vishnu’s shrine
One dumb from .birth. And prostrate there
Oe heaved to Heaven a silent prayer
That soon the Deity would deign
lo loose his tongue. ’Twas all in vain.
lii course of tune it came to pass
He took to wife a pleasant lass.
Affam he sought the temple fair,
Afjain he heaved a silent prayer:
‘No more for loosened tongue I sue—
O Vishnu! Stop my hearing, too!”
P. LUFLIG.


The Commercial Banking
Company of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
Authorised Capital, £12,000,000.
£4,739,012 10 0
£4,300,000 0 0
£4,739,012 10 0
CAPITAL PAID UP..
RESERVE FUND
RESERVE CAPITAL
£13,778,025 0 0
a
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman.
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.
Major-General the Honorable JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.
OWEN E. FRIEND.
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
Head Office:
Sydney, 343 George Street
LONDON OFFICE:
18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
LONDON BANKERS:
The Bank of England,
Westminster Bank, Ltd.
Barclays Bank, Ltd.
National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches throughout Queensland, New
South Wales, Victoria, South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agencies throughout Australia and New
Zealand and all other parts of the World.
Total Assets, June 30, 1930, exceed £60,000,000
PROGRESSIVE TOTALS OF THE BALANCE-SHEETS.
1860 . .
1870 ..
1880 ..
1890 ..
£1,553,690
£2,597,584
£6,737,183
£12,692,334
1900 . • • • £14,662,914
1910 . . . . £22,710,073
1920 . . . • £36,752,724
1930 £60,315,544
Bank of New South Wales
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which is amalg, mated THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund. .
Reserve Liability of
Proprietors
sfd
sfd
sd
ďs
śd
sd
.. £7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
DIRECTORS:
THOMAS BUCKLAND, Esq., President.
SIR ADRIAN KNOX, P.C., K.C.M.G.
ROBERT W. GILLESPIE, Esq.
SIR KELSO KING, K.B.
SIR ALEXANDER MacCORMICK, K.C.M.G.
CHARLES BINNIE, Esq.
THOMAS H. KELLY, Esq.
Auditors: S. E. LAIDLEY, Esq.; V. V. NATHAN, Esq.
General Manager: ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON-
Head Office: Sydney, New South Wales.
London Branch - - - 29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2.
594 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New
Zealand, Fiji, Papua, Mandated Territory of New Guinea, London.
AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
All customary Banking business transacted.
Since 1860 the growth of the Bank’s business is shown by the following
figures:—
Year.
1860 ..
1880 ..
1900 ..
1920 ..
1930 ..
Capital and
Reserve Fund.
£955,373
1,490,000
3,250,000
8,206,100
13,650,000
Deposits.
£3,272,893
9,039,196
20,987,103
50,068,085
66,238,223
Total Assets.
£6,411,518
13,090,119
28,354,465
72,467,795
69,228,378
/
%
&
m
1
I I
I
///;
m
m
s
ifopfcpv*?
a
h>:M
r d
i< y/; / /
(7
Ml
/fl
V:
w
BANKING SERVICES
The National Bank of Australasia Limited
provides full facilities for all banking business,
both in Australia and overseas.
To all its clients it extends
the benefits which attach to its
EXPERIENCE accumulated through seventy
years’ close contact with Australia s trade and
development.
ESTABLISHMENT. — 494 ° ffices ’ spr ? d
through the capital cities and country dis-
tricts of the various States of the Common-
wealth, two Offices in London, and Agents
in every important city of the world.
RESOURCE S. Paid-up Capital of
£5,000,000. Reserve Fund of £3,200,000
(used in the business) and total Assets
£45,600,000.
WIDE FACILITIES.— These cover the
banking needs of all classes, both for local
transactions and for business overseas.
Current accounts are opened. Interest is
allowed on money placed on fixed deposits.
Loans and advances are made. Bills are
discounted or collected.
These services, and many others, are equally
available at all branches of the Bank. Small
or large transactions receive equal care an
attention.
THE National Bank
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED


r
X
8*
BBS
ss
M* ►§*>
*i»s
••«*« isv
SSK
as
9*
A
Charming
Gift
'feSSL
( JowjiSiall ,
Melbrnimteyk.
■••' -afcWT
I§§S3
hi V 5 -'
£* a7_)
VT-’V?
(W■
? ••/-
On time
-all the time
Punctuality—the one
essential of social or
business life—is as-
sured to every wearer
of a "CYMA” Watch.
To people who mat-
ter in the world of
affairs, tjie words
“ CYMA” and
Punctuality are
synonymous.
Exclusive
For a lasting gift, or as a piece of exquisite
personal jewellery, a “CYMA” Watch is
always in perfect taste on all occasions. Plus
this—there is the assurance of speedy and
economical repair in case of accident as all
“CYMA” parts are interchangeable and
carried by all good jewellers.
Oforld Q-amous
CYMA
WATCH E S
DONT FLIRT! STICKTO
H \
ISMS
CR.A!C & AITKEN
GEORGE StSYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS FOR CLUB REIL CIGARFACTQRY
The King's School.
WHEREIN J. H. M. ABBOTT
GOVERNOR BOUREE,
{'ARSON MARSDEN . AND THE FIRST H E 47) MASTER nr,' att o'
THALIA’S FIRST “GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL”
IN front of Government House at Parra-
matta the band of H.M. 17th Regiment
- discoursed patriotic, martial and other
sorts of music through the sunny balminess
.afternoon towards the end of August,
d-, in the midst of golden shrubs of early-
flowering wattle, whilst his Excellency
Major-General Sir Richard Bourke, K.C.8.,
and the kindly wife who was so soon to find
resting-place in St. John’s church-
j ard entertained at a garden party the
nobility and gentry of Parramatta and Syd-
y®y ~ ln the social world Parramatta came
“ist m those days. Across the river a race-
meeting was in progress on the new course,
where the less exalted citizens of Australia’s
second town backed their fancy and celebrated
pl®, birthday of King William the Fourth a
uttle more boisterously, but none the less
loyally, than it was being celebrated over the
'' a ter . m the neat and ordered gardens of
tlie vice-regal mansion which Governor Mac-
quarie had built some fifteen or sixteen years
before.
It was a glorious day, and the beautiful
\ alley of Parramatta was at its best, though
tlie English oaks and elms in the Govern-
ment Domain were bare and leafless. All
social Sydney had invaded the place, and
the extensive stabling of the Woolpaek Inn
was taxed to the limit of its capacity, whilst
the yard was packed with the carriages, gigs
and curricles of the Quality, who had driven
up from the capital. The place was en fete,
and everywhere in the streets excessive
ftrunkenness testified to Parramatta’s devo-
tion to the throne and person of good King
billy. But, of course, up on the rise above
tlie famous orchard in the Orescent, the
celebrations were of a more decorous sort.
It anything, they were a trifle wearisome in
the strictness of their decorum.
If you go into St. John’s churchyard to-
day—in earlier years it had been the Rev.
I armer Marsden’s bull-paddock— you will
find the permanent addresses of many of the
people who moved about the gardens of Gov-
ernment House that sunny winter afternoon.
Eady Bourke is there, and bluff old Sam
Marsden, and Macarthurs, and Kings, and
Elaxlands, and others who have had to do
with Parramatta between that day and this.
And on the interior walls of the old twin-
steepled church you will find set forth on
many ornate tablets what fine fellows they
were, and what loving, amiable and charitable
helpmates blessed their earthly pilgrimages.
On that King’s Birthday, however, old
Sam Marsden was very much alive, stout
and red-faced and silvery-haired as he
strolled about in front of the square white
house amiably conversing with liis friends
and displaying none of that pugnacity which
had so distinguished his earlier years in the
Colony. And Mr. Blaxland, of Newington,
down the river, didn’t look half the sharp
man of business he really was. The red
jackets of military officers, of which there
were many, and the less frequent blue frock-
coats of naval officers combined with the
gold-laced tunics of the band and the early
wattle to lend color to the scene. Beaver top-
liats were abundant, and there were high
silk stocks about the civil gentlemen’s necks,
and many pretty ladies looked out of coal-
scuttle bonnets as they trailed their silks
and satins over the closely-mown lawns be-
tween the flower-beds.
His Excellency, strolling amongst his
guests and exchanging greetings with them
m his blue undress frock-coat and flat,
peaked cap, was a striking figure, with more
distinction about it than any other in the
garden. It was not easy to avoid showing
an air of distinction if you had been
Quartermaster-General to the great Duke in
the Peninsula. He was a handsome man,
with a clever and clean-cut face, and an
equipment of Irish geniality that earned him
popularity in New South Wales. After the
astronomical Brisbane and the martinet
Darling, all Australia had a liking for
Richard Bourke.
He came to where the venerable incumbent
of the parish, Mr. Marsden, was talking
with another black-coated clergyman, who
was in striking contrast with the burly son
of Yorkshire. A tall, athletic-looking , man,
with a cast of feature not unlike the Gov-
ernor’s own, he listened to some energetic
exhortation of Mr. Marsden’s with a little
smile playing about his sensitive lips. His
race was one which, without the smile, sug-
gested a man to be reckoned with in any dis-
agreement. Beside him, dressed in grey satin,
was a tall lady with a good figure who ear-
ned herself well and had an air of being
‘somebody” that matched her husband’s.
“Ah, Mr. Forrest”—the Governor held
out his hand and bowed to the lady—“and
how is The King’s School and all your young
charges ? I’m told the establishment is
greatly increased since the mid-winter holi-
days. My congratulations—the very hearti-
est! Good day to you, again, Mr. Marsden.
Mrs. Forrest —your very humble servant.
Aow r I’ll engage he’s been taking you to
task over something or other, Mr. Forrest?”
The Governor smiled at the rector of St.
John’s. “I seldom escape some sort of cas-
tigation myself. Pray, what is your offence?”
Mrs. Forrest laughingly explained.
Mr. Marsden has been accusing my hus-
band, your Excellency, of sparing the rod.
-But I don’t think the boys would agree with
him. He has quite a reputation of a differ-
ent sort—one that hardly shows him to be
a worthy obj’ect of Mr. Marsden’s present
homily. Not at all, in fact,” she laughed.
‘And pray, what is Mr. Marsden’s con-
tention —what was his homily about?” smil-
ingly inquired the Governor, turning to the
rector of St. John’s.
“ ’ Tis this, your Excellency,” that gentle-
man explained with energy. “I merelv re-
minded Mr. Forrest that no boy in the world
exists—most certainly no Australian boy—
who doth not deserve a flogging at least
once a week, on general principles. Most
of em earn it every day. Now and again a
flogging s a good thing for a grown man—as
ve long since discovered in my magisterial
capacity. With boys ’tis as indispensable as
well, as a dose of brimstone and treacle
administered regularly. It i s , in fact a
medicine the sort of medicine boys can’t
boyf’’ ly SGt 0n without if they’re to be good
The Governor chuckled. “What, my dear
Chaplain, you and make it a regular issue— 1
sa J \ n the Army—like a ration, or,
ai times ot clothing and equipment, eh? \ I
weekly parade for the inculcation of such '
moral virtues as may be supposed to lie 1
m a good birching! Well, well! And how
.wStfSrstiZ?-' 111 Heatoaster ' with i
“Ah,” said Mr. Forrest, smiling, “you
that as y (!t I only
™ hat “ referred to as a ‘newchum’ in this
part of the world, but I must say that the
hov rt Wm eri ? nC a IVe had of the Australian,
boy hardly leads me to suppose him to be
in much danger of being spoiled for lack of
occasion to bring the corrective influence of
the rod to his notice. lie asks for it. No
need to make a formal occasion of its pre-
sentation, I think.”
« “ Nat heless,” the Chaplain shook his head
tis my opinion, Mr. Forrest, that some of
the young wretches must escape their just
deserts unless they be served impartially j
with wh3t they deserve at least once a day.” ‘
Oh, well, laughed the Governor, “it
seems- to me that we might be better em-
ployed than in conspiring against the com-
fort of the youth of New South Wales.”
. . Ci.s Excellency turned as a lady tapped
him gently on the arm with her parasol It
was his wife.
i “ A '\ dean >” he said, “I think you
know Mrs Forrest? I will leave her with
you whilst I avail myself of the presence of
so noted a farmer as Mr. Marsden to con-
sult with him upon the pruning operations
1 am contemplating in the orchard. ’Tis
a highly scientific business, I’m told, and
one tliat calls for the wisest counsel. Mr
Marsden, sir, I hope I may count upon your
advice?”
“With pleasure, Sir Richard—the greatest
pleasure. lor as much as it is worth,
feheep are my strongest point. You have
none here, I suppose; but ’twould do the,
orchard no harm to run a few ewes and
wethers amongst the trees. They’d do no
damage and would manure the ground. Pray
lead the way, your Excellency.”
“Mr Forrest”—the Governor turned to
tlie schoolmaster—"will you not accompany
us l I erfiaps you also are something of an
orchardist? No! Well, I hear that Mr.
Marsden s fruit trees at Mamre are an
object-lesson to the countryside. Let us go
down into the Crescent. Mrs. Forrest, you
are lately from England, and I know that
Eady Bourke is positively dying for a chat
about the old country. You’ll forgive me,
I m sure, if I borrow your husband for half
an hour or so? Everything is all right, I
think, my dear Elizabeth? Most of our
guests have arrived and are settling down
amongst themselves. We won’t be long away.
Come, gentlemen—l shall be most grateful
tor your advice.”
He led them out of the garden through a
little gate in the white wicket fence sur-
rounding it and down the hill by an easy
pathway that brought them into the splen-
did orchard and vegetable garden so long a
delight to the Governors of New South
YYales. More than forty years before, soon
after lie established the settlement at Parra-
matta, Governor Phillip had caused tlhe
horseshoe hollow in the hillside above the
river to be put in cultivation, and at the
time with which we are concerned it was,
tor its size, one of the finest orchards in the
Colony. For seventy years and more the
ground has lain fallow, but it is still possible
make out in its grassy contours evidences
of the constant tilling it received for many
decades. Two or three aged and barren pear-
trees are still able to conjure up memories
of the distant days when the little river-
bend was one of the show places of the
Colony.
Mr. Marsden became voluble as to the art
and mystery of pruning fruit trees and vines
as they moved amongst the plantation in
the orchard below the hill, most of which,
with the exception of a few orange-trees,
was bare and leafless in the garb of winter.
Ihe golden globes of the ripe citrus fruit
richly gleaming in their luxuriant foliage
ot dark and glossy green, attracted the
attention of Mr. Forrest.
“How beautiful those orange-trees are’”
he exclaimed. “And how attractive! I can
well understand _ the farmers’ complaints
about my boys—’twould be quite unnatural
if I never had any.”
The Governor laughed. “I am not yet a
complainant, Mr. Forrest. You see, the
branches of the other trees being leafless just
now there is little cover for would-be depre-
dators. But I may be one when summer
comes and the peaches ripen—am certain
to be. I suppose.”
“Well, if you catch the young rascals at
fl ? g ,r em „ on the s P ot !” energetically ad-
vised Mr. Marsden. “I’ve had the lads
of the town in the garden of the Rectory
but the same boys never come again, I can
assure ye. I’ve not had any of your fellows
yet, though, Forrest. However, I’ll be on
the look out for ’em. They’re no respecters
of persons, these young Australians.”
Marsden, laughed the headmaster. “I over-
heard a little fellow remark the other day
that he a sooner try to steal my cane than
rob your orchard. You have a reputation
thfit m a y protect you. Hullo! What’s all
that ?
Some sudden clamor had broken out be-
yond the fence and hedge that bounded the
orchard on the river side. A rough cart
road followed the bank of the stream, lead-
ing up beside the still waters thrown back
by the dam below Government House. The
three gentlemen turned their attention to-
wards the riverside, and stood listening to
a curious medley of jeers and laughter that
floated to them through the intervening
avenues of leafless trees. Boys’ voices they
heard—sharp and shrill and distinguished by
the peculiar sing-song intonation that accom-
(Continued on next page.)


Tyres at
Factory to User Prices
RAPSON TYRES are here again—s/6 to 6/8 in the £ below
usual prices.
Selling direct to user, distributing costs cut to a minimum and
the saving passed on to motor owners in the low prices listed
below.
Big, sturdy and reliable Tyres, manufactured under the special
Rapson process in the most modern Tyre plant in Australia.
These Rapson Tyres are definitely the best Tyre value obtainable
to-day.
Regular supplies of all sizes have been arranged for, but as the
present factory output is limited it is advisable to order early to
ensure supply.
OJL tZZ
3AV S
Size
31*6.00 S.S. 6-ply
32 x 6.00 S.S. 6-ply
33 x 6.00 S.S. 6-ply
32 x 6.20 S.S. 6-ply
33 x 6.20 S.S. 6-ply
32 x 6.50 S.S. 6-ply
32 x 6.75 S.S. 6-ply
27 x 4.40 W.B. 4-ply
29 x 4.40 W.B. 4-ply
28 x 4.95 W.B. 4-ply
30 x 4.95 W.B. 4-ply
31 x 5.00 W.B. 4-ply
30 x 5.25 W.B. 4-ply
30 x 5.25 W.B. 6-ply
31 x 5.25 W.B. 4-ply
31 x 5.25 W.B. 6-ply
33 x 6.00 W.B. 6-ply
31x4 S.S. 4-ply
32x4 S.S. 6-ply
32 x4i S.S. 6-ply
30 x 31 B.E. 4-ply
31x4.40 B.E. 4-ply
730 x 130 B.E. 4-ply
775 x 145 B.E. 6-ply
30x5 S.S. 8-ply
30x5 S.S. 10-ply
34x7 S.S. 12-ply
Country Customers can have tyres forwarded, “Pay on Delivery,” by passenger train, to
their railway station, enabling them to inspect before taking delivery. Allowance made
on worn casings.
Secure
Your
Rapsons
To-day!
CENTRAL MOTORAMPS SERVICE GARAGE LTD
RAPSON DISTRIBUTORS,
105 YORK STREET (next Market Street), SYDNEY. M4515/6.
And RAPSON HOUSE, 275 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY. MA2898, MA5292.
1 anies the hurling of “dares” before battle
in the world of boyhood. The provocative
hoots and yells seemed to come from a party
that was in the majority; only occasionally
did something that might have been taken
as a retort to intolerable gibes reach the
ears of the listeners in the orchard. Pre-
sently, loud and clear, a boy’s unmelodious
semi-broken voice shouted a couplet that
drew a chorus of laughter and derisive hoots
from his companions.
“ Kingy-eye, cocky-eye,
Couldn’t kill a butterfly /”
Instantly Mr. Forrest stiffened, and with
his face half grim and half smiling he strode
through the bare trees towards the hedge.
Mr. Marsden and the Governor followed
slowly after him, a little puzzled by the
immediate response the headmaster of The
King’s School had made to the meaningless
jargon shouted by the unseen challengers on
the other side of the hedge. When they
came near to the boundary of the orchard
they perceived their companion standing close
to the hedge, peering down towards the river
through a gap in the roughly-trimmed top
line of the green barrier. He turned and
beckoned, at the same time placing his other
forefinger against his lips to enjoin silence.
The view across the river a hundred years
ago from Old Government House was one
that differed greatly from the scene that
may be contemplated at the same place to-
day. On the flat immediately opposite grew
very tall gum-trees, with she-oaks by the
water’s edge, and although the racecourse
was laid out through the big timber there
was still. something of a forest on the land
surrounding the present sites of The King’s
School sports ground and the County of
Cumberland cricket ground a little further
northward. Where the school buildings stand
now there was still an old orchard, and
although the present oblong sandstone build-
ing with the porch in front had its ground
plan indicated by its foundations, it was
to be a good four years before the school was
to move into it from the house in George-
street where it had its beginnings in the
February of the year with which this story
concerns itself. Beyond the old Cherry-tree
Gardens—as the present site of the school
was called in the early ’thirties —the grim
walls of the gaol reared themselves above
the north bank of the river, just below the
dam. Lennox Bridge was yet to come, and
the stream was crossed by'a low timber via-
duct somewhere about tlie same position as
the beautiful old stone arch occupies now.
Along the beginnings of the Windsor-road
(Church-street N.) there were a' few good
houses, and here and there towards the hills
to the north were the small clearings and
homesteads of tw r o or three farmers. It was
a fair and peaceful outlook, but immediately
in front of the small opening in the top of
the hedge through which Mr. Forrest peered
intently the dogs of war had been let loose
in the pleasant valley and a clash of arms
was very imminent.
“Ha —something he doesn’t wish us to
interrupt!” the Governor said in a low tone
to Mr. Marsden, as they made their way
towards where the headmaster stood. “Let
us go quietly, my dear Chaplain. Some boy-
ish frolic, I expect, which he doesn’t wish
to interrupt. We will see without being
seen—as he is doing. Come —let us join
him.”
Quite invisible to the absorbed youths out-
side the orchard the three gentlemen curi-
ously surveyed the interesting developments
that were taking place. Two boys of about
fifteen or sixteen years of age confronted
eight or ten others of various sorts and
sizes who were evidently opposing their fur-
ther progress towards the town. It was
the latter force which was making all the
noise, taunting and baiting the two who
were facing them, mainly with reiterated
chanting of the couplet quoted above. One
biggish lad seemed to be the leader
of this party. Now and again one of his
subordinates would heave a clod of turf or
a piece of dried cowdung at the objects of
their impolite attentions. These two seemed
a little uncertain as to what to do, the only
obvious thing about their attitude being
some indication from their angry and deter-
mined countenances-that retreat was to be
the last thing contemplated.
“What is it?” whispered the Governor
to Mr:-.. Forrest. • “Who' are these lads,' and
what I, are 7 they about?”
“Those 'two, your „ Excellency”—the head-
master pointed towards them —“are two of
my boys. These others are' boys'' belonging
to the town. There is a bitter feud between
The King’s School and the town boys, and
frequent fights take place when parties of
them encounter one another. I’m afraid
they’ve got young Berriman and Hedges
somewhat at a disadvantage this afternoon.
HoAvever” — —
“Tut, tut!” grunted Mr. Marsden. “God
bless my soul, Forrest, just let me have a
word with those young blackguards. I’ll
very soon end matters.”
Mr. Forrest laid a restraining hand upon
the old man’s arm. “No, no, pray don’t
interfere, Mr. Marsden —I beg of you. Not
just yet, at any rate. Let us await develop-
ments. I want to see how my two boys
behave.”
“But, Mr. Forrest,” put in the Governor,
in a low tone, “pray consider the odds, my
dear sir. There are eleven of these town lads
against those two boys of yours. Hardly
fair, is it, to leave them to the tender mer-
cies of the mob?”
Very earnestly Mr. Forrest replied to Sir
Richard Bourke. “Your Excellency, pray
consider. The school has only been opened
for six months or a little longer. It has its
spurs to win. If we interfere now and pro-
tect these two lads the word will go about
that boys of The King’s School cannot fight
their own battles, but must look for pro-
tection to authority. I don’t want that —
’twould ruin the character of the school if
such a point of view came to be entertained
bv these lads of the town. In many ways
it would be better to close the establishment
altogether than to let such a notion become
current We must not interfere. Just wait
for a minute or two and see what happens.
I beg it of you, sir.” ,
“Oh, very well, Mr. Forrest, ’ assented the
Governor. “But see—l think the crisis is
approaching. Oh, good, my lad—very good
indeed!”
Gradually the Parramatta boys had formed
a semi circle about the two lonely represen-
tatives of The King’s School, and the leader
of the mob, with a yell to his followers, had
rushed to close quarters.
“Come on, cullies,” he cried, “let’s throw
th’ cows in th’ river. Duck ’em—come
along!”
Instantly one of Mr. Forrest’s boys had
stepped out to meet him, and with a straight
left had plugged him deftly on the nose and
knocked him dowrn.
“Well done, Berriman!” muttered the
headmaster. “Please don’t let them know
of our presence, your Excellency, Mr. Mars-
den. They are quite all right, believe me.
Both those boys can take care of themselves.
Young Berriman is the best boxer we have.
He’ll give a good account of himself; I'm
sure he will. Ah, very good, young Hedges!
I thought you had it in you!”
The lad had rushed upon another of the
town boys, and had sent him also sprawling
on the turf. A chorus of howls and yells
resounded amongst the trees, and the mob
drew back a little. Then the boy whom Mr.
Forrest had distinguished as Berriman sud-
denly put his hand in his trousers pocket
and took out a whistle. He blew a shrill
blast that pierced the din, and then another,
and another. He gripped his companion
by the elbow and they retired a little way
and took shelter behind a tree-trunk from
the flying sticks and stones which their oppo-
nents showered upon them.
“Mr. Forrest, sir,” growled Mr. Marsden,
purple in the face. “ ’Tis more than a joke.
Enough of this, I say! I’ll interfere if you
-won’t.”
“Wait!” cried Mr. Forrest, holding up
his hand to check the rector of St. John’s.
“Listen!” He was laughing triumphantly,
and his companions regarded him with
amazement.
“What is it, then?” asked the Governor.
“Reinforcements, your Excellency,” cried
Mr. Forrest. “Here they come!”
Up the road from behind the two boys
of The King’s School came running half a
dozen others, cheering and yelling, who,_ when
they reached the scene of hostilities, did not
hesitate but charged the crowd of Parra-
matta lads in a compact body, Berriman and
Hedges joining in the attack. The town
boys fell back, and presently the battle de-
generated into a rout, amidst howls and war-
cries which gradually receded into the dis-
tance, until the combatants were lost to
sight round the bend,,of the hill upon whose
crest still stands * Government House.
Mr. Marsden was the first to speak. He
was a little put out, and seemed to regard
the headmaster of The King’s School with
something of disfavor. Sir Richard Bourke
was smiling, and so was Mr. Forrest. They
appeared to recognise some humor in the
incident which was denied to the rector of
St. John’s. When the rector spoke it was
very evident that he regarded the proceed-
ings they had lately witnessed as being some-
thing that called for condemnation rather
than applause.
“Mr. Forrest, sir,” he said wrathfully,
“this is monstrous —abominable ! And yet
you seem to take pleasure in such a sorry
exhibition of riotous lawlessness. Those
young ruffians of the town with whom your
boys are fighting are, let me tell you, sir,
from the lowest orders —the very riff-raff —
of the inhabitants of Parramatta. I recog-
nised some of ’em —I know their connections.
The father of the boy whom your young Ber-
riman knocked down was hanged three years
ago. Another is the son of a bushranger
who is still at large and plundering the coun-
tryside along the Nepean River. Two more
of them I know to be the offspring of male-
factors who are at present serving sentences
in the iron-gangs that work upon the public
roads. And, doubtless, several of the others
are at least as unfortunate in their ante-
cedents as those whose family histories I
am familiar with. ’Tis most deplorable that
young gentlemen of The King’s School —
sons of parents who occupy positions of re-
spectability in the community—should
engage in a common brawl with the spawn
of the lowest dregs of colonial society. I
hope and trust, sir, that you will express
to your boys the gravest disapproval of such
goings on. ’Twill be most unfortunate if
you do not do so, sir—most unfortunate for
ithe future of the establishment of which you
have control under the direction of the
Church of England. May I say, Mr. Forrest,
that your apparent delight in such a scene
as his Excellency and ourselves have just
witnessed is unworthy of you? Damme, sir,
so it is! I trust most sincerely, Mr. Head-
master, that you will teach your boys a
lesson for this. What do you propose to
do about it, sir, may I inquire?”
The Governor looked from one to the other
of the two clergymen in an uncertain fashion.
Mr. Marsden, red-faced and frowning, seemed
to be very angry; Mr. Forrest was smiling
quietly but looked pleased and triumphant. So
wise Sir. Richard decided to take no part in
the discussion, but awaited the headmaster’s
reply to the rector’s outburst with attentive
interest.- It was not long in coming. -
“Well, Mr. Marsden” —Mr. Forrest was
still smiling as he spoke —“one of the tiii ngs
I intend to do is to give the boys a halt-
holiday in celebration of the event we have
just witnessed; indeed, I f®® l , that lt; 1 "
almost worthy of a whole holiday. Do you
not agree with me, your Excellency _ must
not the school be encouraged to maintain
its prestige? Would it have any right to
be called The King’s School if it were not
prepared at all times to do so. I think
you will agree with me, Sir Richard.
The Governor looked at the irate rector a
little doubtfully. Then he put out his hand
and clasped Mr. Forrest s, shaking it
heartily. , , . T
“Indeed, Mr. Forrest, I feel that I must
agree with you. Good luck to The King s
School! May such sound sentiments ever
inspire it! Come, Mr. Marsden, you must
agree with that?” ~ ~ ,
“God bless my soul!” said Mr. Marsden, a
little bewildered.
Church.
A wonderful word, it’s both chubby and prim,
Yet somehow contrives to forbid and look
grim; ..
The c's look so fierce and the ns so tan,
And the r is so growly, although he s so
small;
The double ch’s spell monotony,
And sermons that stretch out to eternity,
And the' u in the middle is you and not me.
MAORILAND.
ARNOLD WÀLL.
A Thought for a Singer.
If for the moment that the song is growing
I wear its little death-in-life of feeling
As if ’twere mine, then I, for the world s
knowing,
Suffer as poet, with' a song for healing.
But if the flood that is my own emotion
Break on my heart, and in its slow reced-
ing'
Drown me in depth, till from that bitter
ocean
I fling my cry—then go your way un-
heeding.
I would not have you say that song is good
Which is not ’■ artistry, but womanhood. -
W.A.
ETHEL DAVIES.


:
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd,,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents—EVANS, DEAK.IN & CO., LTD., Brisbane
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Rourke Street, Melbourne
South Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDEK, SMITH & CO., LTD. Adelaide S A
“THE AGE”
Established 185Jf.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you neglect to use “The Age” for adver-
tising, you miss one of the most vital features
in your Victorian campaign, and no advertiser
who is spending large sums to produce,
advertise and sell an article can afford to
take that risk.
“THE AGE”
has over 122,000 daily subscribers who have
confidence in their chosen publication, and
because it is a newspaper that not only goes
into the home but reaches the very heart of
the household, the advertiser who places his
products or service on record in its columns
is assured of dependable reader value.
“The Age” publishes over 1,000,000
advertisements annually.
Audited Daily net circulation
122,501.
Rates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
47 Fleet Street, London.
National Advertisers
Who Wish to Cover South Australia
t:
The only Pictorial
Newspaper in South
Australia offers ex-
ceptional value to
advertisers who wish
to reach the women
buyers in South Aus-
tralia. In one week
recently more than
12,000 letters were
received from
women readers.
First with the news
—first with the pic-
tures—is the slogan
of The Register, the
paper South Austra-
lian women buy to
read.
REGISTER
NEWS-PICTORIAL
REPRESENTATIVES
SYDNEY. 8.
Thompson, “Lis-
paf House,” 30
Carrington street.
MELBOURNE.—
J. N. Bednall,
The Herald Office,
Flinders street.
Che mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
(Established 1854)
The “Mercury” is the only Metro-
politan Newspaper in the State.
Its news services, articles, typo-
graphy are unexcelled in Australia.
THE “MERCURY” COVERS
TASMANIA
And its circulation exceeds the
combined figures of the dailies in
Tasmania. Delivered by fast motor-
cars, it reaches Launceston (121
miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before break-
fast.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
*• B, Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Builfding, Elizabeth Street.
Clk Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements .
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all Inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price lid.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Do You Know ?
“The Week”
has special columns on the following
matters of interest to the man on the
land.
Agriculture
The Orchard
The Piggery
Poultry
Dairying
In the Garden
The Grazier
Nature Notes
And many more items that will
interest and benefit him by reading.
Price 3d. per copy
From All Newsagents, or
14/6 Per Annum, Post Paid, from
THE TELEGRAPH
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane, Queensland,
who also issue “The Telegraph”
daily—l 2 noon, 3 p.m. and 5 n m
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
To keep
smiling &
vigorous-
KEEP
HEALTHY
IS&iw
PILLS
Health is the key to happiness. Radiant
smiles and high spirits speak of a system
vital, active and clean. Health depends
on that, you know 1 Once you become
constipated, wastes and poisons vitiate
the blood, and the system slowly becomes
sluggish, inactive. Eyes get discoloured—
tongue becomes furred —the complexion
shows sallow; headaches and biliousness follow.
If you suspect auto-toxication is ruining your
health, take
BEECHAMS
PILLS
A GUINEA
V
Tasmania 8
enire
Progress
d
Prosperity.
a n
“THE EXAMINER” is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricul-
tural, Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER” has been published in Launceston
for 8 7 years, and is still the family newspaper of
Northern Tasmania.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner/’ “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from: '
W. R. Rolph & Sons; Pty., Ltd.
73-75 Patterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan, •
420 National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. \V. G. Dougan,
726 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please jorward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 3 months jrom
for which 1 enclose £
NAME .....
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
y-
m
0
0
0°
s e K^ 6
f
c s ®
..e^V
>*>•#?#
..*• A^O^riv 6 '


A Seasoned
Super-Six
f > - b 7
£s?
TTTERE is a six with a
**“ name that stands for
reliable motor cars combin-
ing smooth power with re-
markable speed. It is a
seasoned super-six ——proven
everywhere by highest per-
formance records for cars in
its class.
Drive the new Essex Chal-
lenger and you will sense a
smoothness altogether new
for this price. You drive
with relaxation. Gears shift
easily, smoothly, quietly.
Effortless steering ready
acceleration—easy parking
—all of these contribute
to genuine enjoyment in
driving Essex the Challen-
ger. Come in and let us
demonstrate.
ESSEX the Challenger
THE GREATEST SIX-CYLINDER VALUE
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales .
Victoria
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
136 Phillip Street, Sydney.
NEAL’S MOTORS, PTY, LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
Queensland .
. WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia
MOTORS, LTD.,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.
53 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
Tasmania
