

WHO CAN DENY
m
m
m
%
mm
FROM
A Scot —painted by a Scot!
Raeburn's ' Mac Nab ‘ exhi-
bited at the Royal Academy
of 1819, was said by Sir
Thomas Lawrence to be the
finest portrait of a man within
his ken. And what intense
virility, what stern dignitythere
is in that fine old face. Firmly
upright, his bearing speaks
pride in his race, in his inherit-
ance, in his ancestry. In the
resplendent uniform of a Lieut-
enent-Colonel of the Breadal-
bane Fencibles, he typifies the
true Highland Scot, dour,
indomitable, proud. Raeburn,
in making the very spirit and
soul of Mac Nab blaze out
from the canvas, has brought
to his own skill, to the person-
ality of his sitter and to
Scotland—a surer immortality.
M
SI
Vj
D
ASK ALWAYS FOR DEWAR’S—THE SCOTCH WHISKY
The Bulletin
Qm.Nq#A-
Vol. 51.—N0. 2606.
Price 6d.
Wednesday, January 22, 1930.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


for the Library Catalogue and
terms, and lists on all subjects, which
will be forwarded post free on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Handvriwng
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining,
your Muscular Movement System of Writing as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address ,
S.B
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
y?
THE ONE-BLADE HOLLOW 6ROUND SAFETY
-THAT STROPS AND HONES ITSELF
Obtainable at all hirh-elass Stores. Chemists and 'Tobacconists. THE ROLLS RAZO*
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA. MENDES CHAMBERS, CASTLEREAGH STREET.
HAIR
NEED
G
NO
HIRES
s
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
Sfr&LUriS CMEXICANJ
tsbltud Stswrt
♦-REMOVES THE GREV *
Sole Australian Agents:
DUBRDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct W 6), 6d. being postage.
ś
MYCOMFOKJ
m
]
tuucura
'-'omnttirr
£5 £3:
ISI.XLfM+Hg
MEDICtWftUTOIuJ
Three of Baby’s
Best Friends!
Baby must, be kept clean and un-
chafed, and Baby’s skin must not
be allowed to become rough or
irritated. Three friends are ready
to serve Baby every day through-
out tbeyear; theyare CUTICURA
SOAP, CUTICURA OINTMENT,
and CUTICURA TALCUM.
Soap Is., Ointment Is. and 2s.
Talcum 1». 3d. Sample each free.
Address: "R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S.W.*
#
V*
5#
The
of
Centre
a n
Tasmania’s
Prosperity.
"THE EXAMINER ' is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricul-
tural, Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
"THE EXAMINER" has been published in Launceston
for 87 years, and is still the family newspaper of
Northern Tasmania.
Full
information, copies, advertising rates of ‘'The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from:
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Patterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
426 National Bank
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
726 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN’*
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
1 6 aru^,
' POWDER V
| I
-
>.
XK-
m
! \
L-
S.S
m.
wnVv, ,
i
Kills Flies and Insects
Instantly.
Sold everywhere, or forward
2/- or 1/- in stamps to
Hudson’s Eumenthol
Chemical Co., Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
The Red Page
Vance Palmer’s Prose
The idea that creative artists are
appreciated only after their death is a
fallacy. Almost every worth-while one
of them in history was appreciated by
those of Ms contemporaries who were
themselves worth while. Therefore, last
week's Red Page appreciation of Vance
Palmer by that fine writer of aboriginal
stories James Devaney is in the nature
of things. A prose writer, he appreciated
Vance Palmer's verse. Mary Gilmore ,
a poet , appreciates his prose. And The
Bulletin is confident that thousands
more of its readers will do so when they
know Ms splendid story “Men Are
Human.” It begins as a serial next
week, in The Bulletin’s Jubilee
Humber.
Of the people who have written Aus-
tralia not many have given a habitation to
personalities, and with them to place-names.
Dickens made London wonderful; nobody
here has sent people out on ’buses seeking
the Sydney he wrote about. Still we have a
few who put a lamp on a post or a mark
on a tree, and of these the pioneers are
Henry Lawson and Steele Rudd. Steele
Rudd has given us Sandy and Dave, and
Mum and Dad. But they stand up without
town or road, and we see them without
the places where they posted their letters
and bought their groceries. Their habita-
tion is of the atmosphere and not of the
place. Lawson is different. If you said of
any town, “This is where Joe Wilson
bought his fencing wire,” your hearer would
look round and say, “Is it?” believing it to
be so. Where Steele Rudd put his people
on the land, Lawson put the land in the
people— his people. The faithfulness of
action to character, and the fidelity of
character to life, has .given Lawson’s “per-
sonalities” a relation to place which makes
place, wherever it may be, real and belong-
ing to them.
Now we have to add to these two another
name, that of Vance Palmer. He stands
nearer to Lawson than to Steele Rudd,
perhaps chiefly because he has in common
with Lawson that abiding sense of pathos
and suffering which is absent from Steele
Rudd’s work even when Rudd writes
of the hardest of conditions. These two both
emphasise, however unconsciously, a serious-
ness in life over which Steele Rudd leaps
in his pursuit of fun—for Steele Rudd does
seek fun, and with it gives laughter to
mankind. With Lawson, Vance Palmer
misses no step in life’s overburdened plod;
with him he treads every foot of the road,
and both know unremittingly that the road
is before them to-morrow and always will
be as it was yesterday vand all the yester-
days.
But now the difference begins. Lawson,
more dramatic, wrote in short stories.
The curtain went up, the act was played,
the curtain went down on that setting
for good. Even where the same characters
stepped forth again they played in
a different town on a different stage.
Vance Palmer, less dramatic, but with
a broader sense of history (and history is
only another name for continuity), takes a
wider terrain both of time and action. So
movement toward climax, or natural slow
completion, flows out in a widening rather
than in an intensifying movement. There
is no torrent, no wild scurry, no deluge
broken in a thunderclap, but there is the
persistent steady soaking of the ground.
To people who do not know Australia,
whether they come from overseas, or
whether they are bred in our own cities under
international conditions, Vance Palmer will
always be clear where Lawson will bewilder
by his hasty movement and his omissions.
Indeed, it is almost safe to say that, but
for their warm, deep, understanding human-
ity, Lawson’s stories would, most of them,
be unintelligible to a good half of Australia
even as early as to-day. It will not be so
with Vance Palmer. His rails are in the
mortises of his fences, his gates all hung,
his pictures up though time passes and
customs change. In regard to his longer
works, an editorial friend of his writing
me says, “Sometimes I think Vance Palmer’s
chief function will have been that of record-
ing the life of stations as it was about
twenty years ago.” With that verdict I
ggree for the present; some day I expect
him to do an astonishing boys’ book even
though Stevenson can live but once.
MARY GILMORE.
Bobby Knopwood
Of the three remarkable clergymen who
had a good deal to do with the spiritual
side of our origins, Sam Marsden is pretty
well known from real and hypothetical
sources, together with scattered biographical
matter, and Father Therry has been dealt
with in monumental fashion by the Rev.
Eris O’Brien. But it is only with the
publication of Bobby Knopwood and, His
Times, by Mabel Hookey (Fuller, Hobart),
that we learn anything really definite about
a man who has been a tradition in Tas-
mania ever since his death 92 years ago—
the tradition of a good fellow.
....Genial, hospitable and kindly, with a ready
hand for those who needed help and a ready oath
for those who angered him, he typifies a class now
passed away—the hard-riding, sport-loving parson of
the eighteenth century—those jovial “three-bottle”
days, when cock-fighting was a fashionable sport,
duelling was in vogue and the phrase ran “To swear
like a lord.”
Not much is known of Bobby Knop-
wood’s early days, but what there is goes
far to explain the Bobby of Van Diemen’s
Land. He was born in 1761, last of an
old Suffolk family. He took his degree of
“Artis Magister” at Cambridge in 1784, and
soon afterwards entered the Church. When
his father died he inherited estates worth
£90,000, but, being a bit of a lad, and
becoming intimate with the Prince Regent
and his friends, was very completely skinned
at the gaming table by that band of black-
guards and sharpers. However, the “first
gentleman of Europe” stuck to him suffi-
ciently well to get him a chaplaincy in the
navy, and he served in several ships. Then
he was chosen to accompany Lieut.-Col.
Collins to Australia, and the story of the
rest of his life is told by his diaries. Those
who have seen these hieroglyphic journals
in the Mitchell Library, Sydney, will appre-
ciate Miss Hookey’s industry in deciphering
them.
Bobby used to get about the country on
an old white pony which was almost gs
famous as its rider. “Service was being
held in the township school-house at Roke-
by. and the white pony, hitched to a tree,
switched flies restlessly and meditated
escape, the parson meanwhile keeping a
watchful eye through the window. All went
well until the middle of the sermon, when
the congregation were startled by a burst
from the pulpit, ‘D—n that pony of mine;
he’s loose again.’ ”
A kindly, charitable, genial man, he
chronicles how he “became very merry”
with as much gusto as Sam Pepys—but in
his magisterial capacity he was, like Chap-
lain Marsden in New South Wales, a holy
terror as a flogger. “That a kindly man
such as Mr. Knopwood could tell a prisoner
who complained of an unjust flogging that
if he ‘didn’t deserve it this time, he prob-
ably would next’ speaks badly for the
hardening effect of the old penal code on
those who administered it.” It didn’t
altogether harden Bobby, though, for he
would be ill for days after attendance at
a hanging. And he loved fair play. There
is an entry in the Diary in June, 1814,
which seems to show the real man rather
than the cursing, drinking, flogging chaplain
of one side of tradition.
Thursday, 25th.—This morning very melancholy,
having very little rest on account of what was to
take place—the execution of the three, Wm.
Stephens, Thos. Smith and George Kirby. I was
with them early in the morn, and with his Honor
the Lieut.-Gov. Came home. Mr. Mitchell break-
fasted with me. I then waited on his Honor the
Lieut.-Gov. with a petition from the officers and
inhabitants of the settlement to spare the lives of
the two young men saved. I then went to the
prisoners and administered the sacrament to the
three, and Morley the murderer attended. At half-
past eleven they were taken to Hunter’s Island, where
all the military and people of the Colony attended.
After praying some time I took my leave of them,
and when Major McKenzie read the warrant for the
execution the two boys were reprieved, and Stephens
left for execution. I returned home where the two
boys, Thos. Smith and George Kirby, were and all
the prisoners. I had them all in the room, and
had them return thanks to Almighty God for His
goodness in sparing their lives, and likewise all the
people prayed. I received the thanks of everybody
for my attention to the prisoners.
Miss Hookey has drawn, in her comments
on the Diary, a vivid and lifelike picture
of a notable character. She has donh more
—she has made a valuable historical docu-
ment available to the general reader, and
has presented it in a most acceptable form.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
Edward Dyson—a Reprint.
It is fortunate that now, with The Bul-
letin taking stock of its hast in the Jubilee
Number of January 29, the early stories of
Edward Dyson have been made accessible
in a popular edition. “Thd Golden Shanty,”
the name story of the book, has b6en re-
printed in anthologies ever since it first
appeared, but the whole group of stories,
with their characteristic illustrations by
Phil May, had been in danger of passing
into mere legend.
Here they stand now, a basis for so much
that has been done since, and a specimen of
what cannot be done again. Edward Dyson
wrote “The Golden Shanty” at the age of 18
and the material in this book was drawn
from his experience as a boy in a mining
township. There are one or two sketches
set in some district “out bush,” something
like Lawson’s Gulgong, the characters’
names, such as Spicer, coinciding with Law-
son’s now and then. But these glimpses of
selectors’ lives were such as might be
gained by a roaming boy whose head-
quarters were some mining township in
decay. For that is the home of the Golden
Shanty—a town no longer in its roaring
’fifties but in its decadent ’eighties or
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


Every statement made by Anthony Horderns’ is supported by
“Truth in Advertising.”
Anthony Horderns'
(The Senior Store)
/ •<; "y A . . ,■/ •, ’«
Genuine
SALE
Gentlemen!
We call your attention to the really
Surprising Values
in Men’s
Suits Made to Order
—also in Youths’ Sports Trousers, Men’s
Sports Coats, Boys’ Blazers and Boys’ All-
Wool Indigo Suits
£5/12/6 Men’s Suits
Order - - - - - ■
to
901-
This is a special offering of 400 suits to measure.
Every one is pure wool and tailored to your exact
measure with our customary accuracy and excel-
lence. Obtainable in plain or fancy Worsteds, in
Greys, Blues or Browns. Patterns are free on
request. We make no extra charges for unusual
size or style.
Price, each £5/12/6
Sale price, each 90/-
ŝ
s
ś
£6/15/- Men’s
Suits to Order
££j9|£
XU|fcr|v
Here are several lines from
which the thrifty shopper may
choose. These are also of all
pure wool, in plain or fancy
Worsteds, obtainable in Greys,
Blues or Browns. These are tail-
ored to your measure with all the
perfection and excellence for
which we are well known. Pat-
terns furnished free on request.
No extra charges are made for
unusual size or style.
Prices, each—?
£6/15/- £7/5/- £7/17/6 £B/10/-
Sale prices, each—
£6/2/6 £6/10/- £6/19/6 £7/12/6
15/11 Youths’
Sports Trousers
126
These are Grey Flannel, all wool
and of Anthony Horderns’ own
superior make. With side and
hip pockets, belt loop, hip straps
and buttons inside. Sizes, 1,2,
2- 1 -.
Price 15/11
Sale price 12/6
35/- Men’s
Sports Coats -
276
Of all-wool Tweed in fancy
greys; best make with real
leather buttons. This coat comes
in all sizes.
Price 357-
Sale price 27/6
10/6 Boys’ Flannel
Blazers
0 If f
0(11
These Blazers are all wool and
have two-color cords. They are
our own make. All sizes are
available in this practical and
exceedingly attractive blazer.
Price 10/6
Sale price 8/11
25/- Boys’ Serge
Suits
211-
Of all-wool Indigo Serge. They
have plain knickers, are lined
with Ferguson’s Silesia, excellent
wearing and really distinctive
in appearance. All sizes are
available.
Price 25/-
Sale price 21/-
We’ll Deliver That Private Parcel!
We deliver private parcels anywhere
within our delivery area for 1/-, pro-
vided they do not weigh more than
lcwt. and measure not more than three
cubic feet. If more, we will quote
prices. This is entirely separate from
our regular free delivery (in the same
area) of merchandise bought at our
establishment.
(Dept., Ground Floor. We pay carriage.)
in
*Phone: M2lfil
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


it’s a General Motors Car
—look inside and note the difference l
■vn«^
T~V.
1
n
EMI
i§
Economical
transportation
... . it . .
—plus an unusual
measure of value —
is focusing
attention on CHEVROLET
T HE shrewd buyer knows that true economy
is found in wise expenditure. With motor
cars, this means that price alone does not
determine value—it means that motorists
to-day are scrutinising more and more care-
fully every element which enters into their
motor car investment, to the end that they
shall secure the best value, the greatest
satisfaction.
With Chevrolet, economy begins with pur-
chase. It carries through running cost and
maintenance cost. The reputation of Chevrolet
was built upon the fact of economical trans-
portation—the esteem in which it is held is
due to the manner in which it interprets the
motoring mode and provides unusual value.
7
f CH EVROLET i
Beginning with its engine,
Chevrolet incorporates features
exclusive to it in its class.
Fine car design, evident in
its mechanical make - up, is brought out
thoroughly and well in its body - work, the
product of Australian craftsmen. Men whose
business it is to please you developed its clean-
cut, streamlined appearance; selected the colours
of which you are justly proud, and gave
individual attention to the details of interior
trim and upholstery to insure your lasting
satisfaction.
A short talk with your local Chevrolet dealer
will confirm your appreciation of Chevrolet
value. He will explain how the values in the
General Motors Warranty and in the Common-
wealth-wide service organisation supplement
the values in the car—and he can also give you
details of the convenient payment plan open
to purchasers of General Motors cars through
G.M.A.C. You can buy a Chevrolet at prices
beginning from £225.
CHEVROLET
fOR. EVERYBODY EVERYWHERE
General Motors
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. .LTD.
Brisbane - Sydney • Melbourne - Adelaide - Perth.
Metropolitan Distributors:
Metropolitan Motors Ltd.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
John McGrath Ltd.,
155 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
Stokoe Motors Pty. Ltd.,
559-565 Elizabeth St., Melb.
City Motors Ltd.,
95 Waymouth St., Adelaide,
Skipper Bailey Motor Co. Ltd., 900 Hay St.. Perth.


m
HI
ill
....•
'« •
rz : * j v
\V, ; ■
tHI
Very Special Offer!
11 gn. Sac Suits to-measure, £lO
A special selection of David Jones’ regular renowned 10 guinea, £lO/15/-
and 11 guinea Suitings greatly reduced! Don’t delay order at once!
New designs and latest smart tonings in fine Worsteds for choice. You
can count on superior workmanship. Sale, £lO/-/-, less 10% for Cash!
NEW STORE & GEORGE STREET
’nineties, with all its mining done by a few
fossickers, persistent whites or timeless
Chinese.
To my mind the most vivid of all the
stories is one that only a boy could
have perceived, in its monstrous injustice
only to be accepted with a grimace. This
is “The Fossickers,” where a “small sober-
looking boy of about 12 years, with red hair
and plenteous freckles,” goes fossicking for
“colors” in a creek near an old mine.
... .His big felt hat was tucked in in the approved
style, and dusted with pipeclay—he had carefully
dusted it for the sake of verisimilitude; his shirt
sagged artfully over the top of his moleskin trousers,
which were tied under the knees with the custom-
ary bowyangs. No detail was missing.... Dickie
was quite a realistic fossicker, a man of experience,
invested with the dignity of labor.
But this realistic fossicker is interrupted
by an old man, Tinker, who says he has
the sole right to fossick round this mine.
How Dickie withstands him, how Tinker’s
greed gets him into danger, how Dickie
saves his life and is rewarded only by a
broken arm and a spell in hospital while
Tinker scrapes for the gold tailings whose
presence Dickie had guessed on the pud-
dling flat of the old. mine—well, it is all
in the book and will never be in any other.
The sketches are all short, more or less
made to measure for The Bulletin of
those days. Contrast them, as one must,
with those of Bret Harte, and each one
seems to have material for something three
times as long. Some are a little conven-
tional in theme, like “Hebe of Grasstree,”
where the name, too, is in a bad tradition.
What matters, though, is the keenness of
observation, the pervasion of sardonic
humor, and the recording of a kind of life
that for good or bad has passed from
among us. “A Sabbath Morn at Waddy”
gives a background to many a drawing by
Oswald Pryor. “At the Yards” is a piece
of impressionism that only needs to be
printed in broken lines to - look like “mod-
ernism” in free verse. “Mr. and Mrs. Sin
Fat” has the basis of a realistic novel of
the ’seventies. The book, as a whole, gives
a sense of plenty, pressed down and running
over, letting us see how it was possible for
Edward Dyson to give, during so many
years and under so many aliases in prose
and verse, a running comment on the varied
life of his country.
NETTIE PALMER.
“Good Old Piddo”
Those who have formed an opinion of the
man from newspaper records of the N. S.
Wales Industrial Commissioner, Mr. Justice
Piddington, may be surprised, not to say
shocked, on meeting A. B. Piddington,
author of Worshipful Masters (Angus and
Robertson). It is a book of reminiscence,
crammed with racy stories told in a-
rippling after-dinner manner; a collection
of potted biographies; in short, a book of
a kind too rare in Australian letters.
“The title suggests,” he writes in a
dedication, “that here you are invited
to meet in surroundings of hospitality
certain notable exemplars, some of life,
some of mirth, some of learning, but
all of human friendliness and service
in their day.” A good example, that,
of charm of phrase getting hold of a
pen-knib and bolting. “Or service” would
have done. For one at least of these
“worshipful masters” scarcely deserved the
other term. Still, Parkes’s lady did have
her splendid revenge upon B. R. Wise when,
her husband scarcely dead, he called with
a van to collect his late chief’s papers and
was off by the naturally annoyed
widow with four great cases of wood billets
and doorknobs.
Good Old Piddo’s tastes are catholic.
They range from yarns about bookmakers
to yarns about politicians, and there
are, of course, scores of yarns about his
own fraternity in between. There is the
'Athenaeum Club of Sydney’s ’nineties—“a
real club, most clubs nowadays being
restaurants with residential accommodation.”
Here Robert Louis Stevenson makes appear-
ance; here Mark Twain tells the story of
having given Loisette a testimonial for a
memory system that was published all over
the United States. The effect wore off and
Mark Twain wrote asking Loisette to with-
draw the advertisement.
He did nothing. A sharper request was also
ignored. “At last,” said Mark Twain, “I told him
that if he didn’t withdraw my testimonial I’d expose
his past. That settled him.”
Ernest Blackwell: “What was there about his past,
Mr. Clemens?”
Mark Twain: “Oh, I didn’t know, but I knew he
must ha’ had one.”
The Athemeum, it is recorded here, ulti-
mately failed, “though its members did
their best to carry out Barton’s financial
policy that the club should ‘drink itself
out of debt.’ ” Edmund Barton, when he
broke his ankle during his Speakership,
invited “Coonamble” (W. J.) Taylor to
stay with him in comfortable quarters he
had taken in Macquarie-street.
Taylor was an enthusiast for Barton, but the
temperance regime he found too much for him. In
the morning rum-and-milk preceded the bath. Then
breakfast, with Barton, rosy and genial, asking after
Taylor’s health. About eleven o’clock Barton would
say: “Captain Broomfield sent me over some very
fine sherry that has been round the world in the
wood as sherry ought to do. I think we might try a
glass.” The sherry was brought in, and the trail,
including some new “trial” motions, was protracted
till past noon. At lunch a quart bottle of stout or
beer apiece. At 4 p.m. Frank Rogers, Q.C., or Jud°-e
Gibson, or W. R. Beaver, Clerk of the Peace, or
some other member of that old coterie, would drop
in... . Whisky a I’ecossaise —-spirit first and water
after —or whisky and water or whisky and soda were
the fashion, and Barton dealt evenly with each of
his guests as they arrived, Taylor doing his best
At eight o’clock high dinner with two brands of cham-
pagne and all the prolegomena of sherry and bitters
with an epilogue of coffee and liqueurs carried on
the festive hours until about 10 p.m. An hour later
the real and serious business of the day began—a
steady irrigation of the alimentary canal with spirits
and soda. By one or two in the morning it was
considered time for all frugal souls to be in bed.
Next morning, rum-and-milk, bath, and at breakfast:
Barton (cheerily) : “Well, Taylor, how are you ?”
Taylor (doubtfully) : "Very well, thanks. How
are you i”
Barton: “Splendid.” (Then in confidential tones.)
“The fact is, Taylor, that when I was laid up the
doctors insisted on the strictest moderation in the
use of alcohol, and I don’t mind admitting that it
seems to suit my constitution wonderfully.”
In another atmosphere moves the book-
maker who, having lost in Equity, appealed
to the Supreme Court and lost again.
He seemed to accept this for a day or two, but,
after talking it over with some racecourse lawyers,
he came to counsel’s chambers, when the following
turf consultation was drawn :—-
Client: “Mr. , they tell me this ’ere High
Court bowls the Supreme Court over nearly every
time.”
Counsel: “Oh, there have been some successful
appeals.”
Client: “Well, I’d like to have a go at it.”
Counsel: “I think you’d be very foolish. I told
you to begin with that I didn’t think you had any
equity, and when we lost I told you not to waste
your money on an appeal. Well, you would go on
in spite of me, and we lost again. The best, thing
you can do now is to cut the loss.”
Client: “Well, how many cases have been taken
up there ?”
Counsel: “Oh! by now about twenty, I should
think.”
Client: “How many wins?”
Counsel: “Oh, some twelve or fifteen.”
Client: “Three to one on! That’s good enough
odds. I’ll give it a fly.”
He “gave it a fly,” and won by a short head.
Another good yarn with a flavor of the
turf is credited to the wit of Wilfred
Blacket, K.C., “one of the quickest wits
I have known.” Blacket, one time Bul-
letin sub-editor, was asked by a well-to-
do friend to suggest a name for a race-
horse he had just bought, something that
would suggest “remembering.” He had
already considered and rejected, he said,
“Mindful,” “Souvenir,” “Memory” and
“Auld Lang Syne.” “Why not ‘Repent-
ance’?” said Wilfred. There is plenty of
such wit in this gallant company. Richard
Bethell, for too much speaking in the Court
of Appeal, rebuked with the significant
question, “How long did this case take in
the court below, Sir Richard?” made a
show of whispering to his junior, and then
said, “I was not in the case below, your
Lordship, and I’m told it lasted two days,
hut there were no interruptions from the
Bench.” When Bethell became Lord Chan-
cellor Westbury, his horses bolted one day
and his coachman called out over his
shoulder, “My Lord, I’m afraid the horses
are out of hand. What shall I do?” “Drive
into something cheap,” was the callous
reply.
So the rambling tour goes on, with Reid,
Deakin, W. B. Dailey, Gandhi, Billy
Hughes, dozens of others, to be met on the
way, and something worth listening to
about the lot of them.... Good Old Piddo!
A Satchel of Books
Selections from Goldsmith. Latest addi-
tion to the Methuen cheap issue of selections
from great writers. Good value for die
3s. 6d.
The Omnibus Book (Heinemann). A
full-length detective novel (“The Bel-
lamy Trial,” by Frances Noyes Hart) ;
another full-lengther (“Greenery Street,”
by Denis Mackail) ; a shorter one
(“Legend,” by Clemence Dane) ; a long
short story (“The Two Helens,” by F.
Tennyson Jesse) ; another (“A. V. Laider,”
by Max Beerbolim) ; two essays by H. M.
Tomlinson ; five articles by A. P. Herbert;
“Counter Attack” and eight other poems by
Siegfried Sassoon —the lot, printed on thin
paper, going at Bs. 6d. (London price). It
looks remarkably like a bargain.
As It Was in the Beginning, by Dulcie
Deamer (Frank Wilmot; Melbourne). A
fine volume reproduction of the caveman
yarn with which Dulcie Deamer, at the
time a country girl of only 16, won the
Lone Hand Story Competition. The ori-
ginal Norman Lindsay illustrations are in-
cluded on semi-loose leaves, and the printing,
binding and general get-up of the book are a
credit to the publisher, who is, of course,
poet Furnley Maurice. The story itself,
which must represent a record in pre-
cocious achievement in Australia, is an
amazing bit of writing, vigorous, stirring
and much more worthy of revival than many
perpetuated pieces.
Shinjtt. by H. B. Darke (Bodley Head),
tells of the unconsummated love of an Eng-
lish youth and a Japanese girl. It is
implied that the inhibitions which keep them
apart are mysteriously racial, but her habits
would have been enough:—
I became acutely, aware of her Japanese habit of
sniffing. She would screw up her little nose in a
vigorous inhalation as though suffering from chronic
catarrh. It was poor relief when she took a piece
of toilet paper from her long sleeve and blew her
nose into it.... I couldn’t get her to walk at my
side. I stopped, intending to insist on her joining
me; and she chose that moment to clear her throat
and spit.
The book is worth while if only for the
light it casts on aspects of Japanese life
and culture with which most people are
unfamiliar.
Tales from Bernard Shaw, by Gwladys
Evan Morris (Harrap). The writer ex-
presses herself “deeply indebted to Mr.
Shaw, who, with the generosity of the truly
great, has allowed me to turn his plays into
tales.” It is true that from the time she
asked until permission was granted was seven
years; still permission was granted, and,
with the perspicacity of the truly great
advertiser, Mr. Shaw has written, “I like
Gwladys’s Lambs’ Tales from Shaw.” Cer-
tainly he could not have had an advt. better
produced nor much more cleverly illustrated.
The Lamb relationship is rather stretched.
The play characters are translated into
animals, birds and insects, but it would bo
a pretty aged child who could get a kick
out of the tales. An adult who had failed to
understand the original might enjoy them,
though it seems doubtful whether an adult
who could not understand SJiuw would evei’
read them.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unliss stamps accompany.
E.E.K.: You’ve got a great chance in the
story of the little engineer; now make it move....
Five Eight: “X.N.O.’s” no layman; he was
an officer in the British Navy for 20 years....
H.T.G.: No, no, it’s not credible. But there’s
humor in it....H.L.T.: “Is it worth publishing?”
M’scarcely.... T.W.: Liked the idea of Dad fixing it
up with Peter to look after the old grey mare;...
0.L.: Falls heavily at the close... .T.Y.: Idea’s
worth better treatment. . . .C.W. : “Written for purely
personal reasons,” and returned for reasons purely
impersonal. .. . P.S.: “Slim as a bamboo-tree” scarcely
flatters the lady. .. .8.J.L.: Don’t fancy that sample.
Try something else. .. .L.E.S.: Even a lyric needs a
dash of stingo... .8.T.Q.: “The White Gull” is
declared “black” Red Mick: The answer is a
brick, considerately buttered.... St. Aude: Went
bravely to the stake D.M.G.: Thanks for New
Year’s greetings. Sorry your verses go with ours. ...
Ronald G.: Office Sherlock hunting for the verse.
That answer probably was aimed at you... .R.L.G.:
You’re young. Don’t force it for a while.. . .H.McL.:
You might give it away in Aberdeen. .. .O.B.: One
glance at the bush picnic:—
Everything set; the billy boiled,
All sat around our spread;
Of course, over goes the billy, and Elsie’s undies
spoiled,
Including half a loaf of bread.
. ...U.H.: Rub the patina of age off it and try the
museum... .South Paw: Gently counted out... .A.T.:
No reward for “The Searchers”. .. .D.E.L.: Promise
not to tell who told you and send it to Mary direct.
. ...H.G.B. : Repeat request, stating about when it
appeared. “Drinking Song” didn’t tempt the
Religious Editor to break resolutions.... G.A.H.: “A
mean-souled, treacherous toady, spawn of a witch’s
brew.” G00d!... .U.W.A.: “If you don’t care to pub-
lish this, don’t.” Won’t. . . .A.W.R.: Has merit, but
content is light... .R.McI.: Too much “doth,” ithn’t
there?....S.L.D.: No resemblance to £ s. d
Hugh L.: “The Stump” grubbed.... G.A.L.: Some-
times we return unstamped verse that we think
might be placed elsewhere. No home here for
either... .E.P.L.: “Sorrows of the past have flown
on the wings of yesterday.” So now we suppose
they’re little angels... .H.W.: Can’t imagine Bul-
letin readers in Borneo getting excited over the
names on the North Shore line... . Elbatt: Goes with
a swing, but there’s a lot of wind blowing....
A White Aus.: Can’t get anything like a bark out
of “The Underdog”... .R.G.McD.: We can’t under-
take to return pars. . . .D.H.: Thanks for the compli-
ment, but that issue is already filled. .. .O.D. : In
the private-affair class... .F.T.: Speaks, but says
little.... Pog: Too juicy by a whole squeezeful....
1'.J.8.: All that to say you don’t care !... .P.J.1.:
Fact that the dead don’t grow old is in the shave-
and-haircut stage. .. .Rafi: “The Anglers” miss the
oof-fish. ...E.J.C.: Spelling at least ambitious....
F.A.: Long, for what’s there... .D.P.F.: All right,
as an exercise... .Ena: Not yet.... J.K.E.: Fair
sonnet idea in the free-verse. sample. The other was
judged too windy.... Sandy: Rather. Gritty, in fact.
... .Q.T.: All been examined at one time or other in
“Pen and Palette”... .K.M.: Space beat it. ...L.W.:
Have given it all the room we can afford B.G.L.f
Nothing there for' this taste K.T.: Lines are
from Gordon’s “Ye Wearie Wayfarer.” Probably
you have in mind Will Lawson’s “The Shunter.”
S.M.N.: “Times and Gazette” (tri-weekly),
Darwin ; “Echo” (weekly), Broome J.A.N.: A
brief account of the story of Fisher’s Ghost is given
in the “Aus. Encyclopaedia” (vol. I, page 464) ;
the full narrative is in “Tegg’s Magazine,” March,
1836, for which try the Mitchell Library K.:
Aching head and tired eyes,
Mouth so dry and throat so sore,
Most certainly it would be wise
For me not to drink any more.
Well, if you feel that way, Heaven forbid that we
should discourage you.... Ralph Stirling: Four lines,
anyhow:—
We lost a gallant jockey in young Jimmy Munro.
It was a goodly offer and he was bound to go.
We all wish him the best of luck in riding for the
Count
And that he does secure a win each time he has a
mount.
Still, even Freddie Archer could only manage that
about twice out of five times. And haven’t you a
thought to spare for the German bookmakers?....
Reg L.: Thanks, much obliged. We’ll try to deserve
it. .. .C.J.D.: Won’t be room for much reprint. But
later on we may do something in that way
J.A.E.: It didn’t quite click, but the style was
lucid and the method direct E.M.E.: Romance of
Ivan and Yoland perfumed and returned G.P.E.:
Lizzie should have smelt his breath R.G.G.:
Thanks for promising to have the next atrocity
typed... .T. 5.8.: “Ends of Justice” are served by
discharging the story with a caution Y.S.: Can
find neither a case for the violin nor a home for
the baby. .. .L.C.0.: No footlights for the drama of
“Petherby the Pickle Prince”. .. .1.G.: Fourteen-
stone ray of sunshine awaiting removal. .. .A.M.:
The man who writes “would of” and “must of”
deserves all the bee stings he gets... .1.5.: No sur-
render to “The Lure of Lunch” S.S.: Tame and
inconclusive T.T.M.: Published by the Fanfrolieo
Press, London; the quarterly is now available in
book form.... H.P.L.: Hopeful as a coal strike....
France: No place for sentimental child verse....
N.Y.0.: You’ll have to submit it again. It’s been
through a flood by the look of it... .S.P.S.: As
remarked before, they are correct enough. They
simply lack interest P.L.St.S.: Two fighting it out
already, and the axe will fall on them soon.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.C.: It didn’t tempt us. ...J.H.: Not at all bad
for a beginner... .E.J.M.K.: Unmoved by William’s
remarks to his horse.... C.G.: Buy yourself a bottle
of Indian ink. .. .B. J.E.: Out in the first round....
R.T.: Might do to decorate a humpy wall. ... L.A.:
They all crashed.... F.C.: Old, 01d.... 11. G.: Is that
infant prodigy still thumping the piano?... .R.G.:
Heads, passable; bodies, unutterable... ,H.L.: Too
ambitious; try on a smaller scale.... 8.G.: Can’t
see any improvement... .J.M.T.: You have the bent;
now study.


s
s
:
m
m
mm
V AfV . *Bl—
, ,
31
r
■
m<
rf
H
. 1
Hk
■
i
.
x-a
-.,/ -_--
•»,- *
St.; -TIS
4^
■
Hi
p
IgHg
H SB
it
■lllii
n
! »**»«
S* ■ ; :
W
M
S
m
Ull
fm m
* -
V 5-: -
' ! i"
HI
m %
m
|p Ws^
■>; ,
H Hi
H
m
4
IIESSII
*, - >K ■
: ; ;
■
m
mmsss
_ >*s■
I®
- ; . - ■ ■
. ' V •'•
■'
m -t
SMSSbSKKHM
111 Ml
gk^ffKB££3
- * ■
lls% d : -
w
ft.
9 ^//'//e mesot&
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD,


The Bulletin
Vol. 51.—N0. 2606.
January 22, 1930.
THE NAVAL CUT.
“Since 1914 the number of British cruisers has been reduced from 150 to 70. The MacDonald Government now proposes to reduce them to 50 'as an example to other
Powers participating in the Naval Disarmament Conference.’”
“You may feel even more strange in this cut, sir, but think of the honor of being the leader of fashion.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the While Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
271 George Street, Sydney; Box 252188.
Victoria : 111/-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 21/9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2
Temple Bar 57 95.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 1/s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom; 1/oz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional J/oz., Ul. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British l > ossessions and U.S.A.: J/oz. or part thereof.
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED page literary ARTICLES .. 2, 5
VANCE PALMER’S PROSE—
By Mary Gilmore . . . . .. .. 2
EDWARD DYSON—
By Nettie Palmer . . .. .. 2, 5
“GOOD OLD PIDDO’S’’ BOOK 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . .. 5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON .. ..7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
Rothbury and Revolution .. 8
CAN THE WHITE MAN HOLD ASIA? .. 8
AUSTRALIA AND A TARIFF TRUCE . . 8
RAIL UNIFICATION IS URGENT . . . . 9
ARE RIFLE CLUBS WORTH WHILE ? . . 9
GOVERNMENT BY NEWSPAPER . . . . 9
POLITICAL POINTS (with caricatures) .. . . 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. 11, 12
PERSONAL (with caricatures) .. .. ..13
“WILD CAT’’ COLUMNS 14, 16
PRODUCERS AND CITIZENS’ ASSURANCE.. 14
QUEENSLAND PROBATE INSURANCE . . 14
SWAN BREWERY 14
: FEDERAL DEPOSIT BANK (BRIS.). . 14, 16
POVERTY POINT 17
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 17
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. . . 18
“THE ENEMY,’’ at Sydney Palace . . . . 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 19. 21
MAN ON THE LAND 22, 25
WHEAT VARIETIES IN S. AUS 22
PEAS IN THE ROTATION . . . . . . 22
LABOR SAVING ON DAIRY FARMS . . . . 22
QUESTIONS ANSWERED 25
Free Service Department .. .. 26
SMOKE-OH (with three drawings) .... .. 28
PEN AND PICTURE 31
NEWEST TALKIES 31
GOSSIP OF THE INKY WAY 31
SPORTING (illustrated) .. .. ..35, 37, 39
SHEFFIELD SHIELD CRICKET .. .. 35
MOOREFIELD RACES 35
V.A.T.C., CAULFIELD 35
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 41
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 42
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 43
“MERRY CHRISTMAS!” 44, 45
Three Complete Stories—
“THE PURPLE Q.,”' by Jim Grahame .. 46
“THE SURGEON’S LADY”—
By J. H. M. Abbott .. .. 47, 49
“BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS”—
By Margaret Fane and Hilary Lofting. .49, 50
VERSE —By D. L. Waraker, Dulcie Deamer,
“Hamer,” R. Crawford, Mary Gilmore
45, 46, 50
NEXT WEEK—JANUARY 29.
“BULLETIN” JUBILEE NUMBER.
Extra copies of this Great Souvenir
Production should be ordered at once. It
will not be possible to publish a second
edition.
Vance Palmer’s Prize Story, “Men Are
Human,” magnificently illustrated by
Daryl Lindsay, will begin.
The Prizes for the Most Helpful Con-
tributions to the “Man on the Land” pages
will be announced.
TTuTteulletm
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 22, 1930.
ROTHBURY AND REBELLION.
Every few years there is an outbreak of
mob crime. There was one in the early
’nineties, when many people who afterwards,
proved themselves to be excellent citizens
were rightly put into gaol. Those were
the days of the shearers’, miners’ and mari-
time strikes. One man one vote had lately
become law in most parts of Australia, and
the first signs of the Labor party had
appeared. The workers, as they began to
be called, many of them newly enfranchised,
were told more things about their wrongs
and their rights than ever they had heard
before—more than many of them had ever
dreamt before.
As usual they were told and believed that
Utopia was just over the hill. When the
weeks and months passed and the world
went on much as it had done previously, of
course they were disappointed. The fran-
chise was not what it was cracked up to
be and Parliament was a delusion and a
snare. In 1890 the Riot Act was read at
Circular Quay in Sydney; in 1891 great
camps of mostly-armed men were formed
in Western Queensland and free laborers
were abducted and imprisoned in some of
them, and wool-barges and sheds were
burned in Western N. S. Wales; in 1892
the Broken Hill miners had their “defence
corps,” too, and only adroit management
prevented bloodshed. In every case these
were the outbursts of disappointed, embit-
tered men. But, looking back now, we
should certainly not call them bad men.
On the contrary they had the merit, in
most cases, of a tremendous loyalty, and
of an obstinacy which in other circum-
stances is called doggedness. They had, in
short, exactly those qualities which carried
the Diggers to deeds that thrilled Australia
in the war years.
And The Bulletin refuses to believe
now that the Maitland miner has gone
utterly to the dogs because of what hap-
pened at Rothbury and Ashtonfields; even
in the presence of the basher gang, it re-
fuses to believe that the Australian work-
man has reverted to the pack. Simply the
same causes have produced the same results
as in 1890-92. The men who are committing
excesses to-day are no different from those
whq committed equal or greater excesses
40 years ago and afterwards proved them-
selves just as good and law-abiding citizens
as the rest. When that most unfortunate
young man was shot at Rothbury, Bishop
Long came to the graveside to testify to
his estimable qualities as son and citizen.
It was nothing to be surprised at. This
young man was probably a fair sample of
19 out of every 20 on the field.
In one respect, however, there has been
a great change in these 40 years. The
leaders of the strikes of the early ’nineties
were thoroughly, intensely Australian. A
foreign emissary who pushed his nose into
the shearers’ strike would have had it cut
off. There was no talk then of the brother-
hood of man and a world-revolution. To-
day there is a power in the world waiting
to grasp every opportunity that offers to
fan the smouldering fires of discontent, and
turn every Rothbury into a revolution.
This is the appalling danger of the present
situation—that men at heart most law-
abiding may be lured on into committing
themselves to definite hostility to the law
and the authority which stands for the law.
The danger is all the greater because, in
times of stress, the drift into insurrection
is so easy even without cunning intellects
to help it forward. What the miners must
be got to realise is that it is the business
of the law to stop this drift before it gets
out of hand. They must be got to realise
that if they set out to gain their ends by
force in defiance of the law, the plain
English of it is rebellion. It is no answer
that they believe the law is bad. It is no
answer either that they are good, law-abid-
ing citizens. They have for the time
ceased to be anything of the sort. It is no
use pleading either that they intend to go
only a short distance along the road. Very
few rebels ever intend to do anything else.
In the last most desperate resort, when
everything else has failed, an apoeal to
force may be necessary. If a man must die,
he had better die fighting. But that point
has not been reached. It is true that 10
months have passed since the trouble be-
gan. But most of that time has been
wasted in endeavor that could end nowhere.
There is only one possible solution that
promises to have any practical results and
any permaneficy. That is conference. It
does not matter that conferences have
failed. There is yet another to try. There
always is another. But a chairman is
wanted who will drive the parties to a
settlement. There is one man pre-eminently
fitted for the task—Justice Isaacs. He is
on the verge of retirement. He could
crown his service to Australia by presiding
over a conference that would end this
national catastrophe.
THE DISAPPOINTING HEN.
The first article of the Freetrade faction’s
creed is that the Commonwealth is pre-
eminently fitted for turning out farm and
dairy produce. The fact is it is fitted, but
not pre-eminently fitted. The last list of
average returns covering a series of years,
published in our own “Official Year Book,”
puts the Commonwealth no better than
ninth on the list of wheat-producing coun-
tries; and if the yields of the four great
grain crops (wheat, oats, barley and maize)
are added together, it is much lower down.
A second article of profound assurance is
that the Commonwealth is specially fitted
for supplying food to the manufacturing
populations of countries which are short.
As a further fact, Australia’s big farm
and dairy exports, apart from wheat, are
butter, supported by a kind of bounty, and
sugar, sold at a loss. Fruit follows in the
distance. Australia isn’t a cheap producer
(its standard of living is one of the reasons),
and it is further off than most suppliers,
from the nations which are in chronic need
of food.
This leads up gradually to the Australian
hen, which is of minor importance when
considered as a limited quantity of meat
on two legs, but can be interesting as a
type and an illustration. At a recent fowl
conference held in Victoria it was stated
that England is so justly infuriated by the
recent Australian tariff (it is now a few
weeks old) that it is making a dead set
against our eggs, and unless Australia re-
covers its senses and liberally reduces the
tariff as a peace offering, and buys a lot
more foreign manufactures, serious disaster,
akin to that which befell Spain when it
lost the Armada, may ensue. As the chief
orator put the case:—
“Great opposition has been created by the
recent duties enforced by Australia on
hosiery and cotton goods. The attitude
was being adopted that if Australia would
not buy Midland cotton and hosiery goods
the Midlands would not buy Australian pro-
ducts .... It was disheartening to find Ameri-
can eggs which had been cool-stored for
six months realising within Id. per dozen
of Australian eggs. Consignments from the
continent, which showed signs of cool storage
up to 10 weeks, were realising 3d. to 4d.
per dozen above Australian eggs.
It looks a sorrowful situation when put
that way; still, if John Bull is ready and
willing to buy United States eggs even when
six months old, it might be well for this
country to make a tariff like Uncle
Hoover’s, and then it might be able to sell
him six-month-old eggs likewise.
This country sold £84,518 worth of eggs to
the Old Man in 1927-28, which wasn’t much
seeing that Australia had done nothing then
to rouse him to homicidal fury about the
tariff. And in return it bought these among
many other things:—
Flannels .. .. .. .. .. £61,291
Italian cloth containing wool . . .. 16,145
Worsted, as ordinarily used in the manu-
facture of outer clothing for human
wear .. .. . . .. .. 373,354
Other woollens (same rigmarole about
human wear) .. .. .. .. 991,963
Woollens mixed with cotton .. .. 606,854
Some more woollens .. .. .. 149,682
Total £2,199,289
And apart from these piece goods the Old
Man collected from us £467,043 for woollen
socks, and lots more money for mixed
articles made from the fur of the jumbuck,
which is our own specialty. Ready-made
coats, for males with 34in. chest measure-
ment or over, cost £140,145. It needs only a
very little more attention given to the making
of our own clothes out of our own sheep,
and Australia would have a new and well-
paid population of taxpayers which would
consume all the eggs that all the present
and prospective hens of the Commonwealth
can lay.
The alternative is to do without the
employment, the new population, the wages,
the tax-revenue which the new wage-
earners would supply, and the saving in
freights, commissions, etc., which would be
effected if we ceased to convey eggs one
way and woollens the other way.
CAN THE WHITE MAN HOLD ASIA?
With characteristic slimness, the Chinese
Government has announced that, as far as
it is concerned, extra-territoriality, or the
right of foreigners to live under their own
laws, has been abolished as from January
1. If the announcement were to be
taken at its face value the consequences
would be serious. The foreign trade of
China would be thrown into confusion, the
municipal rule of the million-city of
Shanghai would become illegal, foreign
residents numbering upwards of 300,000
would have no security of person or pro-
perty, and there would probably be armed
intervention. No Chinese declaration need
ever be taken at its face value, however.
Some months ago Dr. M. T. Z. Tyau, the
Kuo-min-tang’s most eminent authority on
international relations, made it clear what
the move portended. He advised the Gov-
ernment to denounce the treaties, but to
follow up the announcement with no action.
The result would be to stampede the
Powers into a conference. Democratic
Western sympathisers with the Flowery
Republic’s aspirations would then be mobi-
lised on China’s side and Chinese states-
men would be in a position to start the
•game, in which they are past-masters, of
playing one Western country off against
another. This is what is about to happen.
China’s move is not as immediately serious
as it looks; yet it is symptomatic of some-
thing that is serious. It brings up the
whole question whether the European
Demos can be a successful imperialist.
Europe fastened her dominion on Asia at
a time when her Governments were practi-
cally autocratic. Jan Pieterszoon Coen,
whose 300th birthday has just been cele-
brated in Batavia, ruled the Dutch East
Indies like an independent monarch. God
was with him on the spot and there was no
such thing as a Labor majority in the
Government at home to worry him. Stam-
ford Raffles, whose 100th birthday has just
been observed in Singapore, seized that
island and founded the British dominion
of Malaya practically on his own initiative.
Single-handed, James Brooke quietly made
himself rajah of Sarawak, a country larger
than Britain, and nobody troubled to ask
him where he got his mandate. A syndi-
cate composed of a Jew and two English-
men floated 300,000 Bornean savages into
a limited liability company with less for-
mality than an Australian manufacturer
starts a shoe factory. Even up to the
Great War, colonial Administrations in Asia
were practically irresponsible, or only re-
sponsible to a person in a distant Foreign
Office.
Since Armageddon things have changed
enormously. The Bolshevik upheaval
spread abroad the proletarian doctrine, and
Asia lapped it up. President Wilson helped
on the work with his slogan of self-deter-
mination. European Demos began to get
interested in his colored brother. In the
imperial Parliaments of Holland, France,
Britain and America the radical Oppositions
began to demand a share in the control
of the destinies of a third of the human
race, hitherto the sole preserve of Colonial
Offices. The results have been interesting.
It has only been necessary for countries
like Egypt, Turkey, India, the Philippines and
China to assume the outward garb of demo-
cratic institutions for unsophisticated Euro-
pean Demos to believe that they have
absorbed the spirit thereof. Nothing could
be further from the truth. Democracy can
no more function in the India of to-day than
a motor-tractor could in a rice-swamp.
China has rubbed along successfully with
the family system for 4000 years. Faced
with the problem of converting patriarchal
rule into a republic, she has only succeeded
in producing a new Son of Heaven in a
modern general’s uniform.
But the effect on the doctrine of white
superiority has been disastrous. Time was
when a white man was safer in a civil-
war area in China than walking in some
parts of an Australian capital. To-day he
is liable to confiscation of goods or im-
prisonment of person. The British raj in
India merely keeps the ring while the local
democrat rends the loincloth of his fellow
democrat, or suspends hostilities to throw
a joint bomb at a viceroy. In the Philip-
pines Uncle Sam has been edged out of
pretty well every position of authority.
The prospects from the point of view of
European dominion are far from alluring.
Up to date one-third of the human race
has directed the other two-thirds; but the
religion of Demos is that the majority
shall rule, irrespective of merit and regard-
less of the consequences. The logic of
democracy is the logic of numbers, and this
generation may see the white man more or
less quietly voted out of Asia.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Australia Won’t Be There (Thank God!).
It is definitely announced that Australia
will not send a representative to the con-
ference which is to sit at Geneva to con-
sider the idea of a “tariff truce.” Nor will
most of the other Dominions which count.
The idea is to get outside countries to enter
into an agreement not to increase their
customs duties for a term of years, though
they will be free to reduce them. It is a
purely British inspiration. The Ramsay
MacDonald Government lacks the courage
to increase its own duties and extend the
list of protected articles, and thus find
more work for its people. It equally lacks
the courage to live up to its promise, and
wipe out the existing protective duties,
which are distinctly beneficial but very
insufficient in number. The first young
enthusiasm of its political promissory-note
cooled off early, in this respect as in many
others, and it became a great consolidated
Shirk. So it asks that other nations shall
save it to some extent from the necessity
of protecting itself and disavowing its Free-
trade image of Baal, by promising, for as
long as possible, not to further protect
themselves against it. The idea is some
relation to newspaper millionaire Beaver-
brook’s demented proposition that all the
British Dominions shall somehow be tricked
into an arrangement for absolute Freetrade
within the Empire, so that all the products
of the United Kingdom and of some
350,000,000 attached niggers shall enjoy the
run of the Australian market, and this
Commonwealth shall throw the biggest item
of its revenue into the ash-heap, and go
broke immediately amid the vituperations
of John Bull, its biggest creditor.
The Australian situation is very simple.
This country is faced by two alternatives,
one of which is honest and possible, while
the other is dishonest and impossible unless
accomplices are willing. It can cut 30 or
rather more millions per annum off its
imports, and either do without the goods
or get to work and make them itself. Or
it can do without the work, and go on
borrowing the 30 millions or more per
annum (with a steady increase) from
Father Bull till something happens. If
Scullin possessed the sardonic humor of
Henry Parkes, the man who made insult a
fine art, he might have offered to con-
sider a tariff truce if offered a loan truce
in return —Australia to guarantee not to
increase its duties, provided Britain guaran-
teed to find the necessary loans regularly
and not to increase the interest.
Such Freetrade or Low-Tariff sentiment
as exists in Australia is based on the wail
of those who profess to represent the
primary producer—that he is unprotected,
while struggling in competition with all
the world, and more or less skinned alive
for the benefit of the manufacturer and the
artisan. Actually almost everything the
farmer grows enjoys Protection. The last
available annual return shows that this
country imported and collected duty on
arrowroot; on bacon and hams (£4590
duty), millet and straw; on butter and
cheese (£86,758 duty), eggs; on fruits and
vegetables (£226,286 duty); grain (over
£47,000), hay and chaff; on hops (£6663),
linseed, meat and poultry; on milk and
cream (£9281), nuts, onions, potatoes; on
rice (£65,483), seeds and many other things.
But for the duties the importation of many
of these products would have been big
enough to be disastrous to the Australian
farmer, for sea carriage is cheap by ships
with low-wage crews and not troubled by
our Navigation Act, and a place like Syd-
ney is more accessible at times to West
Canadian farmers than to some of those
in N. S. Wales. In addition, sugar and
butter are only exported under a sort
of subsidy, and wheat is carried by rail
to the ship at a loss, which is charged to
the general taxpayer. So when Freetrade
schemes are in the air it is well to remem-
ber that the farmer and the artisan and


the whole community are in the same boat,
and are equally interested in keeping it
seaworthy.
4
Railway-gauge Unification Is Urgent.
Dear Bulletin, —“Decapod” (B. 15/l/’3O)
joins “Roleystone” in advancing the theory
that “Australia should not tolerate any
fooling with the matter on the basis of a
3ft. 6in. or any other gauge till the future
of steam in rail traction is cleared up.”
Assuming that steam has no future in rail
traction, while electricity has a future
which has_ to some extent already arrived,
the use of electricity leaves exactly the
same necessity for a gauge of some sort,
and no one denies that a single gauge has
advantages over eight gauges. Electricity
may be superseded by something else,
whether it be faith, compressed air, hydraulic
pressure or the Einstein theory done
up in bottles, but the substitute isn’t in
sight yet. More particularly nothing is in
sight which promises to do away with boxes
to hold goods and passengers, and wheels to
carry the boxes, and something smooth for
the wheels to travel on. Goods and passen-
gers can’t be dragged at the end of ropes
over rough ground with any satisfaction.
The most probable explanation is that
both correspondents consider it easier to
postpone a big and immensely important
job than to get to work on it, and more
respectable to advance.a sketchy reason for
indefinite postponement than to say
straight-out that the repair of the enormous
initial blunder strikes them as a very large
undertaking.
Meanwhile it is reported that “proposals
regarding the unification of rail gauges
throughout Australia will be submitted by
the Federal Ministry to the conference of
State Premiers, which, it is expected, will
be held at Canberra about the middle of
February.”’ Further explanation is to the
effect that the scheme is to convert, at
a cost which is estimated at £20,851,000,
but may be anything in excess, the existing
gauge to 4ft. Bjfin., the latter being
the orthodox British measurement that no
orthodox person will depart from. This
means that the uniform gauge is to be
abandoned entirely. It won’t be taken into
consideration even at the unification-of-
gauge conference, where one would expect
it to have a look-in. The change will make
a difference in Victoria and South Australia.
But it will leave the measurement
still the standard for the Commonwealth.
That size will represent more than half the
Government-owned mileage, and it will
have far the largest area to expand in.
It being the standard it should be recog-
nised as such, and then there would be
a chance of real uniformity, and of less,
instead of more, muddle in the future. The
proposed change wouldn’t even provide S.
Australia with anything more tidy than it
possesses now. It would still have a half-
and-half system, but one half would be a
different kind of half from the half it is
now.
Should the Federal Government have any
success with its scheme, the demand for a
uniform gauge will begin all over again in
due time, and then public opinion about the
muddlers of 1930 may not be much different
from that which now prevails concerning
the muddlers of 1850 and thereabouts.—
Yours, etc., J. E.
4
Are Rifle Clubs of Value?
Dear Bulletin, —Though I hold no brief
for Scullin’s defence policy, I think less of
The Bulletin’s conclusions in “The Rifle-
man in War.”
How did the Boers put up such a fight?
Only because of the quality of their rifle-
men. And one can quite easily visualise
a similar war in this continent of vast
spaces. But without the rifle clubs, how
are the snipers to be made?
As for shooting under war conditions,
what are those conditions likely to be?
Can anyone say? Would a medical officer
be any the worse on the field because he
was used to an up-to-date surgery with all
modern instruments?
Last, but not least, we have only to look
at Germany, which, placed in a position
of not being able to have a standing army
of any size, falls back on the rifle club as
the next best thing.—Yours, etc., Ex-
Rifleman.
4
Private Enterprise Armies.
A familiar device for producing first blood-
shed, then riots, and finally revolution has
been imported to Australia, and has been
developing rapidly in N. S. Wales along the
usual lines. It began with mass-picketing,
whose real province is to get the crowd
thinking militarily and thus supply an army.
Gordon’s anti-popery force in the eighteenth
century, the Skeleton Army which was
organised against the Salvationists in the
nineteenth century, the Irish Volunteers
who drilled in the early years of the World
War, and dozens more evolved from mass
meetings, as the Miners’ Defence Corps
has, and became formidable because the
authorities did not deal with them soon
enough. Dicey, in his famous chapter on
the Rule of Law, suggests that much of the
bloodshed and ruin of the Gordon Riots
might have been averted if the authorities
had acted more promptly.
Fortunately for agitators popular Gov-
ernments never do act promptly. Adven-
turers, most of them foreigners, have been
talking sedition in N.S.W. for months—
recommending the use of jam-tin bombs
and the like—and not a thing was done
about it. And then, in the inevitable course
of things, the Miners’ Defence Corps began
drilling, excusing itself on the ground that
“it is useless attempting to fight the police
and the master-class without the weapons
they are using.”
Not much is to be gained now by blam-
ing the Government for its irresolution.
Indeed, the less the Government is dragged
into this business the better. Ministers
have been far too much in the limelight,
and some of them have not had to be
dragged either. Their administrative busi-
ness is best done in the silence of their
own rooms: Weaver’s excursion to Roth-
bury, for example, merely piled folly upon
folly. And the less they do in such crises
the better. The laws that have been
framed in advance are much more likely to
be adequate than any quick resolutions
arrived at by men more or less in a panic;
if not the statute laws, then the common
law. The most ordinary trouble, as in this
case, is that Ministers assume the right to
say when the law shall begin to operate
There should be no more of that.
♦
Government by Newspaper Bosses.
The political manoeuvres of Lord Rother-
mere and Lord Beaverbrook deserve some
attention in Australia, for reasons only re-
motely connected with their championship
of Empire Freetrade. On that subject
the two newspaper noblemen will not be
taken seriously in the Commonwealth, what-
ever may be thought of their campaign in
“The Bulletin” was born 50 years ago, and the anniversary is to be
kept up next week with a Special Jubilee number.
This Jubilee number will present a complete facsimile of the first
number. Also, besides cartoons and caricatures, there will be a gallery of over
a hundred photos of the people who have made the paper’s name known
wherever English is spoken and read—“ Banjo” ■ Paterson and Henry Lawson
and “Sappho Smith” and “Scotty the Wrinkler,” and on and on. Famous
cartoons will be reproduced and well-remembered verse reprinted.
The late William Macleod left for this number an article, “Forty Years
in the Manager’s Chair,” dealing with the chief personalities and incidents of
his long connection with the paper.
A. G. Stephens reviews the poets, M. G. Skipper the artists, H. M. Green
the short-story writers. There is not a dull line in what they have written.
Stephens tells of Harold Grey and Victor Daley: “Grey had lodgings
in an undertaker’s yard, where he noticed a hearse with horses attached
made ready for a funeral, while the driver had gone to get a preliminary
drink. The almost inseparable Daley was sent to borrow a friendly hotel’s
dinner-bell, and Grey took his seat on the box, picked up the reins, and started
the horses out of the yard, with Daley beside him mournfully tolling the
dinner-bell. They drove down Hunter-street to the ‘Sydney Morning Herald’
office, where Grey stopped his horses and began intoning the old London
plague cry: ‘Bring out your dead! Bring out your dead!’ Daley hopped off
the box into the ‘Herald’ office and purchased a copy of the paper, which
he solemnly deposited within the hearse. Then, with Grey wailing and Daley
ringing the bell, they drove along Pitt-street and up King-street to the ‘Daily
Telegraph’ office, where the procedure was repeated, and a copy of the
‘Daily Telegraph’ joined the copy of the ‘Herald’ in the hearse.”
And William Macleod tells of Archibald: “Very few people knew
Archibald, though thousands thought they did. He was almost all his life
a hypochrondriac, and as he grew older his infirmities became greater. His
office was more like a pharmacy than an editor’s den. I don’t think he ever
really had much affection for ‘The Bulletin,’ and twice in the ’nineties he
entered into negotiations for the sale of it, contingent on my concurrence.
Of course I did not concur. He was a brilliant destructive critic; and until
others had given the paper a constructive policy he was never very easy in
his mind about its future. It would have been better if he had had a hobby.
The nearest he got to it was fishing. For my own recreation of bowling he
had nothing but disrespect. On the other hand, he and ‘Hop’ were very
familiar features at the Athenaeum Club, which had no attractions for me.”
The number is full of such things.
Including the 150 illustrations there will be as much printed matter in
it as in three full-sized novels. But it will be sold for the usual sixpence.
Britain. Mr. Lansbury, the Labor Com-
missioner of Works, has pertinently re-
minded them that “Australia and Canada
desire to develop their own secondary indus-
tries, instead of buying British manufac-
tures and sending food in return”; and
Australia is certainly not going to sacrifice
its manufacturing industries to oblige the
former Mr. Harold Harmsworth and Mr.
Max Aitken. .
Lord Rothermere controls the “Daily
Mail,” the “Daily Mirror,” the “Evening
-\t ’>> “QiinHav Didrmtah” and other
JtJ nowerfulsheets. In Lord
TR° re u nn l/C stable are the “Dailv Ex-
Beav« 4^ kß « ( 2X v^™S the
6SS ’ • ItanS-Tord Rothermere has
‘ Evening Standard —Lord Rothermere nas
a minor interest m the “Standard.” These
gentlemen would be nothing without their
newspapers, but their newspapers have given
them power, and (as is the way of trust
magnates) they thirst for more. Lord
Rothermere aspires to be a political king-
maker, and Lord Beaverbrook is quite
willing to be made king. So each worthy
booms the other, with the whole Empire
for enforced audience:
“Speaking at an editorial staff dinner, at
which Lord Beaverbrook was. a guest, Loul
Rothermere e^ p l es l e p d , n ;h//i hrnS
ta Britain, \ad not entered politics/ There
would be a wonderful transformation if
Lord Beaverbrook was Prime Minister.
“Lord Beaverbrook, replying to the toast
of his health, appealed to Lord Rothermere
to co-operate in the Empire Freetrade
Cr " S ‘Lo e rd Beaverbrook and I.’ Lord Bother-
mere said, ‘are running on parallel political
lines. We have no difficulty in dovetailing
our programmes, and I hope he will power-
fully reinforce the movement I shall later
inaugurate.’ ”
At present a certain Baldwin stands in the
way, but we’ll soon settle Baldwin:—
“The ‘Daily Mail’ says: ‘Candidates who
swallow Mr. Baldwin’s record of mistakes
at the next general election, and hope for
better things, will surely be known as Bald-
win candidates. That is to say, they will
go to the country foredoomed to defeat.
The “Daily Mail,” in any circumstances,
will not support them.’ ”
This Rothermere-Beaverbrook stunt has
its humorous side, but government by news-
paper bosses is not a thing to be laughed
at. Nor is the danger confined to Britain.
Newspaper trusts are forming in Australia.
So far their heads have not been thrust on
the Australian public as great political
characters, but that may come.
4
The Harm Canberra Does.
Some time ago white Papua awoke to
the realisation that sexual assaults by
natives on white women and girls were
becoming unpleasantly frequent. Up to
then, in the 40-odd years or so of the Pos-
session’s history as a white settlement,
crime of the kind had been unheard of.
The sinabada sometimes ran a fair chance
of being eaten, but otherwise she was in no
danger. At last a serious case in Moresby
forced the hands of the Administration, and
an ordinance empowering flogging and the
death penalty for extreme cases of the kind
was passed and grudgingly assented to by
Canberra. It had an excellent effect for a
time, but lax enforcement under the ever-
present fear of what the mission element
might do in the way of swinging political
influence has had the inevitable result. A-
recent atrocious assault was followed by the
conviction of the culprit, who was sentenced
to death. The case was reviewed by the
High Court of Papua, the sentence being
confirmed. On the morning fixed for the
execution a reprieve came from Canberra.
serious was the outburst of mdignation
among the whites of Moresby that the cul-
P nt was hastily dispatched across the mam
range lest a lynching should follow. On
his wav, incidentally, the offender escaped,
Ignorant interference of distant bureau-
crats, with no knowledge of Papuan peoples
bti constitutes a real danger to
or conditions, constitutes a real danger to
the white community which Australia pro-
few* to be so anxious to establish in
P ■
Qn certain Impossibilities.
'
Dear Bulletin,—“J.E.,” on the Queensland
Railway Tragedy (B. 4/12/’29), is inclined
do ubt the possibility of appointing and
maintaining an independent Railway Com-
missioner in any Australian State because
< Xbere } s no prospect of obtaining a Gov-
eminent which isn’t dependent on the popu-
lar vote.” Granting that the appointment
of an absolutely untrammelled non-poli-
tical railway boss might be very difficult,
it should surely be well worth trying to
see jf we could not get close to that ideal,
It ig as tonishing how many things are
impossible in this country. Certain Bulle-
tin controversialists have maintained lately
that Elective Ministries are impossible on
this continent, although the semi-insane
system of party government is driving us
headlong to ruin. It is further alleged
that we cannot get along without compul-
sory arbitration, although Britain, America,
France and Belgium will have nothing to
do with the crooked contraption. Child
endowment and maternity bonuses are also
becoming indispensable to our very exist-
ence, and it will soon be alleged that it is
quite impossible to do without them. As
for getting along without a huge overplus
of imports over exports, the thing to many
good folk is absolutely unthinkable.
Reform in these directions is only impos-
sible so long as we think it so.
When critics tell us, as they do daily,
(1) we cannot possibly sell our railways
and (2) we cannot dream of appointing a
capable Commissioner to run the railways
on business lines (which he will never
do while daily crippled by Ministerial con-
trol and political interference), we are
driven to ask “Well, what would you do?”
The only answer they can give is simply
this: “Leave them as they are under poli-
tical control and trust the people to put
better men into Parliament.” I cannot
see any evidence to justify that trust. Aus-
tralia’s railway extensions, as The Bulletin
has repeatedly pointed out in the last 30
years, have been made time nrv' again not
for the purpose of public convenience but
for the plain object of providing jobs for
the unemployed and the unemployable and
irrespective of their business value; and
as long as politicians control the lines this
system will continue—that is, if the loan
cash continues. Given two crowds, one of
electors who want easy jobs on State rail-
ways and one of politicians who want easy
jobs in State Assemblies, let them come
together and a system of barter springs
immediately into existence; one crowd gets
the votes and the other secures the rail-
way employment. With the railways under
political control the thing in the long run
is inevitable. To inst'al a Commissioner
in the Railway Department and to burden
him with an Arbitration Court on one '
shoulder and a Ministerial chief on the
other and then to tell him “to run the
things and make ’em pay” is to demand
the patently absurd.—Yours, etc., P. Airey.
*
The International Libeller.
The chief weakness of the League of
Nations, and a reason why it is so often
symbolised as a credulous old busybody,
was exemplified in a recent reference to Aus-
tralia’s treatment of its aborigines. As
passed on by the Manchester “Guardian,”
the union reported to this effect:—
“The history of Australian treatment of.
the aborigines is almost uniformly bad. The
natives of Australia are no use as workers
for the white men, save as horse-breakers
and trackers. They have therefore been
almost exterminated, and in general have
not been treated as owning any human rights.
There is a small minority in Australia which
has a more merciful mind.”
Aborigines Protection Boards attend to the
housing and feeding of the more or less
civilised blacks and half-castes and to the
education of their children, and nomads are
given food, clothing and medical attention.
Australia spends about £150,000 p.a. in this
way. The personal relations between 99
per cent, of Australians and Black Brother
are of a particularly human, affectionate
and democratic nature —a strong contrast
to the relations between whites and blacks
in the U.S.A. or S’Africa, and to those
between sahibs and coolies in India.
Of course there have been incidents
between murderous whites and inoffensive
blacks, and vice versa, but to suggest that
all but a small minority in Australia are
mercilessly exterminating the abos. is a
ridiculous libel.
“Si Anu”: The Soviet moves south. Java,
Australia’s most closely populated neighbor,
is once again restless, and the Dutchman,
with the nasty taste of rebellion still in
his mouth from two years back, is taking
suitable precautions. Native soldiers who
are known to be members of the “nation-
alist” organisations are being discharged,
and the proportion of Europeans in the regi-
ments is to be increased, if possible. The
strength is 32,137 volunteers, of whom 6137
are white men, of many European nation-
alities. This is a minute force with whicl
to keep in order 50 or 60 million natives;
yet up to date it has been adequate. The
native element has mainly been recruited,
amongst non-Mohammedan races in the
outer islands, and its loyalty has been taken
for granted; but Communist propaganda
easily surmounts racial and religious bar-
riers, and the Government is becoming very
concerned about it.
“Sister”: The time is over-ripe for a re-
vision of the baby bonus. As a hospital
matron I have seen some strange contra-
ventions of its original purpose; which was
to assist the unmoneyed mother. Two
cases stand out from amongst thousands.
One, the wife of a highly-paid Government
official, told me at length of the £250 piano-
player she had just bought, and of the £6O
she had paid for a silver-mounted pram.
When she came to me to sign the applica-
tion for the maternity £5, I said that I
supposed she would use the money to start
a banking account for the child. She
replied: “Not for mine! It’s another new
hat for baby’s mother.” The other case was
that of the wife of the manager of a great
business in rpceipt of a salary that runs
into thousands, who has drawn the bonus
for each of her five children born in
Australia.


- J-\
YY~
Maximum Engine Performance
The uniform high quality of
SHELL Motor Oil and Spirit
definitely ensures maximum
engine performance under all
conditions.
SHELL OIL &. SPIRIT
imt
cj'mui
tbJlUlkl
5949
POLITICAL
POINTS
Federal Labor’s economy campaign is in
full blast. The Development and Migration
Commission is to go
(though other work is
to be found for John
Gunn), and the vac-
ancy on the High
Court Bench is not
to be filled; hut
another Ministerial
salary is to be pro-
vided if the Senate
agrees. Scullin praises
the generosity of 11.
W. Gepp, who offered
not only to cancel his
contract as chairman
of the D. and M. C.
(he was appointed for
seven years from Aug.
1, 1926) but to serve
in an advisory capa-
city without pay, at
the same time stress-
ing the claims of
Gunn, who gave up
the S. Aus. Premier-
ship. The Govern-
ment will invite very
unflattering compari-
JOHN GUNN.
sons if it saddles the country with a 14th
Minister.
Last Wednesday was a day of rapid foot
traffic on the Newcastle coalfields. Three
forces of “pickets,” about 8000 in all, acting
under the direction of Moscow blatherskites,
marched on separate mines. It is assumed
that the intention was to repeat the nasty
performance at Ashtonfields a few days pre-
viously, when the Law didn’t happen to be
about.' But this time a small body of police
was at hand, and though it didn’t use its
batons with such force as to make a single
hospital case, the mobs were soon dispersed.
(As a matter of fact, it is difficult to make
a hospital case with a N. S. Wales police
baton, seeing that it is constructed either
of leather or of rubber.) Communist leaders
talk a lot, but their fiercest talkers contrive
to be far away when the fighting begins.
Young single miners and truckers thought
it a great joke to join the “Labor Defence
Army” and go “mass picketing,” but the
bulk of the men who took part in Wednes-
day’s proceedings obviously didn’t want to
be there. They were present in self-defence,
regarding it as safer to
trust to the forbearance
of the police than to the
tender mercies of the
militants. Opposition to
the militants involves
not only the risk of ill-
usage but the danger of
expulsion from the
union and life-long
ostracism, with depriva-
tion of strike pay as an
absolutely certain pre-
liminary. The Austra-
lian who belongs to
unions like the Miners’
Federation is about the
most conscripted person
on earth outside Russia.
He may not fully realise
the fact, but many a
nigger didn’t fully
realise that he was in
bondage till he got out
of it.
James, M.H.R., is the
latest Labor politician
to announce that he
will take his place with
the northern miners, “if
the police want blood.”
Simon Tappertit, the
hostile character in
“Barnaby Rudge,” who
organised the Prentice
Knights, later known
as the United Bulldogs,
wasn’t more decisive.
But when the day came
Simon really waded into
the battle and lost both
legs. Somehow nobody
depicts James or Bad-
deley without legs.
Three Commonwealth
referendums are pro-
mised, or half-promised,
this year. One is for the
increase of industrial
powers, another for the
abolition of the Senate, and the third for
the obliteration of State Parliaments. A
fourth might as well be added. Scullin
gave his personal assurance that the
Government policy would include abstention
from overseas loans (except presumably for
renewal purposes) and reliance on the Aus-
tralian money market. The assurance stands,
of course, without an appeal to the nation,
but it would be strengthened by deafening
popular applause.
A suspicion exists that some Common-
wealth referendums have gone wrong because
the questions were put in a way which passed
the multitudinous comprehension. Three of
the problems currently mentioned, could at
least be expressed in terms which would
almost defy misunderstanding, especially if
illuminated by a familiar adjective. For
example
(1) Are you in favor of having all our blanky
loans floated in Australia? (2) Are you in favor
of the abolition of the gory Senate, and government
by one Federal House? (3) Are you in favor of
the abolition of the blinking State Parliaments and
State Governors?
All these propositions could be put on one
half-sheet of notepaper, and they would
have an Australian atmosphere which has
hitherto been wanting.
There are 68,000 electors in the East
Yarra division of Vic. Leg. Council, and
experience suggests that not more than 30
p.c. will vote at the by-election on Feb-
ruary 8. Neither enrolment nor voting is
compulsory for this Chambali. People who
won’t make use of the restricted franchise
don’t deserve to have it; at any rate, the
cost of keeping special registers is an un-
reasonable burden on those to whom it is
denied. It would be a fair thing to strike
all non-voters off and charge £1 for re-
enrolment.
A deputation from New Guinea has begged
Assistant Minister Beasley to admit cattle
from foreign parts into the Territory held
under mandate, on the ground that “the
climatic conditions are not favorable to
Australian-bred cattle.” This is the sheerest
tripe, but Beasley promised to consider the
request. If he grants it he will be opening
the door to rinderpest and other cattle
plagues endemic in Asia and Africa.
The Queensland Government is coming, in
for heaps of criticism over the thumping
tax it has clapped on heavy vehicles in the
J. E. FENTON, Minister of Customs,
who is representing Australia at
the Naval Conference in London
and holding its end up in a tariff
controversy.
interest of the railways. Under the old
assessment an average vehicle of four-tons’
capacity, shod with pneumatic tyres, was
taxed £2O p.a.; with solid-tyre equipment,
£4O. Under the new assessment with per-
centages of overhang reckoned in, the impost
may go as high as £3OO p.a. Many heavy-
vehicle owners protest that the car does more
damage to railway finance than the truck.
They are looking forward to the day when
it will be possible for them to ply on the
airways.
The Scullidore Government collected from
the joint-stock banks a statement of the
gold in their possession, though it had to
ask one or two to hurry
up. Having done this
it has decided to buy the
gold compulsorily, giv-
ing notes, or a credit at
the Commonwealth Bank
payable in notes, as an
equivalent. Any future
accumulations of gold
may be similarly com-
mandeered. There is
also in reserve the right
to buy up private
hoards, though nothing
is said about the seizure
of jewellery, tooth-stop-
pings or sacred objects.
It is something unique
ior a popular and legi-
timate Government _to
be reduced to seizing
the coin of its subjects
when it is not prepar-
ing in haste for war,
engaged in war or buy-
ing off an enemy. Aus-
tralia’s present neces-
sity, however, is to pay
the overseas interest
bill in the absence of
sufficient overseas loans.
When Australia dug up
£16,000,000 of gold _in
a year, and the outside
interest liability was
about half of that, the
position was simple.
Gold went abroad as a
matter of course, be-
cause the nation could
neither wear it all as
jewellery nor put it all
in a back tooth. Now
the bloated foreign in-
terest account is about
14 times the amount of
the gold output, and
there is an urgent need
to send abroad a great
deal of something that
isn’t a drug in the market —coal and other
products.
Vic. Police Association has asked Chief
Sec. Tunnecliffe to give some consideration
to seniority when making promotions and
not so much to merit, contending that merit
might be tinged with favoritism, particularly
in small districts. Tunnecliffe saw force
in some of the arguments, and said he would
discuss them with Chief Commissioner
Blarney. An objection being raised to
Blarney’s presence, Tunnecliffe explained that
he himself had invited the Chief to come
along, and assured them that nobody would be
victimised for criticising the promotion system.
The case prepared for the High Court by
ex-member Perkins against the election of
Cusack for Eden-Monaro covers a fail-
amount of ground. It is alleged that both at
the first scrutiny and the • first recount the
returning-officer, instead of opening the
sealed packets of ballot-papers himself,
allowed casual folk to do this work for him,
and that parcels of unused ballot-papers were
left lying around, one result being that
Perkins votes were prigged in the course
of the proceedings and replaced by forged
Cusack votes. In addition something is said
about bogus enrolments and postal voting.
There being no suffrage in the Canberra ter-
ritory, the story goes that Labor stalwarts
in the capital registered over the N.S.W.
border at Queanbeyan. They bought their
drinks at Queanbeyan, which was held to
be a sort of vested interest.
The yearning for a benevolent despot is a
periodical affair, like the craze for roller-
skating. People who say they are the genuine
article are as plentiful as rich uncles in
Fiji. The French tried Napoleon 111., who
left the country in ruins. Mexico got Juarez
and Diaz, who were fair to middling; but
there were many bloodstained duds in be-
tween —six or seven duds at a time now and
then. And if the benevolent despotism is
made hereditary the second of the dynasty
may have no qualifications except a swelled
head and a tendency to run after barmaids.
A matter which is in danger of being for-
gotten is that collection of secret police
records which the Scullidores are alleged
to have found in a casket or coffer or coal-
scuttle immediately they took office. These
documents were alleged to show that the
Bruce Government kept a watch on the
comings and goings of its opponents, after
the manner of the sleuth of fiction. They
still cry for publication as an official penny
dreadful. Recently Canberra got the best
rain in its official history, and the costly
Parliament House leaked like a palace of
blotting-paper. Everything oozed through
except information.
The Soviet, now 13 years of age, may be
just verging on manhood, or it may be pre-
maturely old, and taking monkey glands to
make a spurious and fleeting youth. Either
way it is exhibiting unusual energy. The
biggest contract is fixed for 1932 (year 15
of the new Bolsh calendar), when individual
farming is to cease and every agriculturist
is to become a laborer on a socialised farm.
This is to make an end of the capitalistic
peasant, who has thriven a little amid the
common poverty. He is only a tenant, with
the State as landlord, by law anyhow; but
it will be a step if he can be tied to the
cart as one of a team. Five agricultural
voters have only the same nominal power
as one town or city voter, so the scheme
looks possible if the dogged obstinacy of
the mass can be overcome, and if the mass
doesn’t organise and slay the tax-collector. v
The awkward fact has emerged that the
automatic signals at Melbourne intersections
maimed more people last year than were
injured under the old system of manual
control. One reason ascribed is that pedes-
trians have not the same awe of a mechanical
light as they have of a blue sleeve with a
human artn inside it. Some American cities
have got over this difficulty by making their
automatic signals in the shape of a police-
man. Man is a curious animal psychologically.
It cost Vic. £ll7O to find out, per Royal
Commission (County Court Judge Winneke
and city accountants Cleveland and Baker),
that there was nothing in the allegations of
bread profiteering as regards the majority
of metropolitan bakers. The Commission
reported, however, that some suburban
bakers were slow to reduce the price for
the 41b. loaf when reduction was warranted,
and saw no reason why provincial dough-
punchers should charge Is. as compared with
lid. in Melbourne. It was because of the
metropolitan bakers’ bitter protest against a
Treasury official’s assertion that, they were
making excessive profits that the McPher-
son Government appointed the Commission.
The Treasury official admitted in evidence
that he had drawn inferences from insuf-
ficient data.
Melbourne “Age” has specialised on the
railway problem, and on January 16 it made
an extra effort. In a leader and sub-leader
it used the words “railway-gauge unifica-
tion” three times, and alluded to “uniformity
in the railway system, “uniform gauge,”
“unification,” “unifying the gauges,” “uni-
form railway gauge” and “unification of
railway gauges.” But it didn’t say one word
about a uniform gauge for Australia so
that a troop train or any other train could
run from Melbourne to Darwin (when the
line is finished) or Cloncurry without un-
loading and reloading. All that was talked
about was turning the sjft. measurement
into a 4ft. Biin. one, which would be uniform
for about one-fiftli of Australia, while it
would leave the Sift, size prevailing over
four-fifths. The “Age” hasn’t really dis-
covered Australia yet.
Westralia is to
elect its Leg.
Assemblymen on
April 12. Labor
will start handi-
capped by the wip-
ing out of six gold-
fields seats, but
hopes that the re-
sult will be 26-24.
If it should be
25-25 the Govern-
ment will try to
carry on by with-
drawing Sydney’s
old friend Tommy
Walker (he was
M.L.A. for North-
umberland as far
back as 1887)
from the Speaker-
ship. It is thought
that at least two
Nationalists would
be willing to oblige.
Imported red-
fl aggers infesting
the N.S.W. coal
fields have been
liberal with advice
TOMMY WALKER,
the Westralian
Speaker.
about using firearms and other lethal weapons ;
one gentleman is recorded to have urged the
making of bombs out 'of jam-tins. Foreign
communists make very free with the meek
and polite British Empire. Moscow agita-
tors not only publish a furious anti-British
paper in London, but they are arranging
to hold a congress of the colored workers
of the world there, to plan the universal
revolution. The original idea was to hold
it at Moscow, but when the promoters dis-
covered that Ramsay MacDonald did not
object to being kicked they decided to
assemble on his doorstep for preference.
THE ABSENTEE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Frank Anstey, Minister for Health, is the
only absentee from Cabinet meetings in Melbourne,
and nobody is quite sure where he is. When last
seen, however, he was contemplating a visit to
darkest New Guinea, where he is part-owner of a
goldmine, and apparently he has carried his pro-
ject through.” —“Labor Daily.”
When Cabinet meets and discussion’s begun
How its troubles may best be surmounted,
There’s a chair that is vacant —a shortage
of one
As Scullidores’ noses are counted.
There’s a chap who’s mislaid, lost, stolen or
strayed—
Gone to ground, like a fox in a spinney—■
And the query “Where’s Frank?” needs a
silence that’s blank,
Or a voice interposes with flippancy rank,
“Best give him a ring in New
He’s somewhere in darkest New Guinea.”
You might say he was posted as missing at
Lloyd’s;
He’s gone where he cannot be followed.
By far open spaces and desolate voids
And menacing jungles he’s swallowed.
He’s out where the natives are hostile to
pants,
And guileless of skirt or of pinny.
Co-Ministers glance at each other askance
And mutter, “Well, dash it, he’s taking a
chance
By hitting the breeze for New Guinea,
A.W.L. in New Guinea.”
He’s out of the reach of their querulous
words,
He dodges political'topics
While feasting his eyes upon paradise-birds
And other delights of the tropics.
By the banks of the Fly mayhap he may lie
And angle for spoil that is finny.
One merely can guess, for he’s left no
address,
And ’tis but a rumor he’s spending recess
Somewhere in the wilds of New Guinea,
The back o’ beyond in New Guinea.
His place is deserted where demagogues
swear
All labor-employers are robbers.
He’s mizzled, and none can say certainly
where,
Not even his intimate cobbers.
But all of ’em knew he had something in
view,
For he never was counted a ninny,
Nor is he an idler, to give him his due,
And this is the item that gives us a clue
Concerning the region he’s travelling to :
There’s a mine he part-owns in New
Guinea, .
A goldmine in darkest New Guinea!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Borom”: Leaving the key on the inside
of the door is the poorest of precautions
against burglars, though one of the most
popular. There are
cracksmen, known
as “droppers,” who
can open the door
from the outside by
turning the key
with thin pliers.
If this fails, they
push a sheet of
newspaper under
QUITE CONCLUSIVE.
“It’s really no use your looking my way, Bertie, because Daddy says you haven’t
got any brains.”
“Gee! Why don’t he read his newspapers? What about my motor accident—how could
I get concussion of the brain if I ain’t got any?”
the door, poke the key out of the lock with
the pliers, and draw it out with the paper
under the door. Probably as many houses
are entered by this method as by breaking
into them. Removal of the key will at least
foil the “droppers,” who, with the intense
specialisation of the world which preys,
are seldom “breakers.”
* * * *
“Ivyn”: It was Shakspeare Day in Vic.
State schools. One head-teacher, an enthusi-
astic student of the Plays, knowing that the
uistrict inspector would call, had arranged a
scene from the first act of “Macbeth.” Re-
hearsals, the pedagogue thought, had made the
actors word perfect, but unfortunately King
Duncan forgot the opening words of his three
lines. After a dreadful pause he made a
stab at it, but instead of “What bloody man
is that?” (pointing to the bleeding soldier,
who entered), his shrill voice demanded to
know “Who’s that blankard?” The head
turned pale, but the inspector covered his
mouth to conceal a grin. “Perhaps Duncan
would have put it that way now,” he whis-
pered.
“F. Levine”: The good old missing will
of melodrama figures in a case just reportea
in Sydney. A woman died intestate, as was
supposed. Her personal property was sold
at auction, and her only daughter bought a
wardrobe. Setting it up in her own house,
she found in a crevice of it a fully-attested
will bequeathing to her the entire estate.
* * * *
“Busker”: I was busking in a Melbourne
suburb. A Chinese gardener’s cart drew up
near me, and as I happen to know the
Chinese national anthem I struck it up. 1
was struggling with the concluding bars
when John came running towards me with
a thrippence in his outstretched hand.
“Hooray,” I thought, “I’ve made a hit.
“Hi, you take this,” the heathen said, ‘You
go in ’nother stlcet, my horse fligliten him
young horse.”
$ Hi H* ♦
“Spare Corp.”: Robert Graves’s second-
hand allegations about the ferocity of the
Diggers remind me of Monty, one of our
reinstoushments, who breathed hate of the
fire-and-brimstone variety from the moment
he joined the camp at Liverpool. Monty s
great principle was that there was no good
German but a dead German ; and lie told us
hair-raising stories of liis deeds in South
Africa. He would be as ruthless to Fritz,
we gathered, as he had been to the Boer
prisoner he had shot for being sullen, and
to the half-dozen Kaffirs who had witnessed
the shooting and might have peached. I
missed Monty for a time; then I found him in
France flourishing as sergeant-cook to a
machine-gun outfit, his bloodlust evidently
satisfied by spoiling food. I was passing
with a few prisoners, and Monty, as an
old pal, turned on buckshee tucker for the
escort. Then he noticed the captives. “The
poor cows look famished,” he said. “Better
give ’em some, too.” And the apostle of
frightfulness plenteousl.v fed the men whose
bones could be heard scrunching under his
heel every time he opened his mouth.
# * * *
“Riwaka”: A dull day of unceasing rain
at a holiday resort. The only guest in the
boarding-house, myself. Nothing to do and
nothing to read but the visitors’ book—a
succession of long-winded paragraphs prais-
ing the local scenery and the landlady’s
cooking. As entertainment it was monotonous
as the falling rain, until I came to an item
that told a whole romance in a few words.
It read: “Met here, 1928. Returned with
the baby, 1929.”
* * 3: * .
“Sing Hi”: Chinese dignity is getting more
and more touchy. This year the authorities
of Kiangsu have closed down on “Henley on
the Whangpoe,” a rowing function which
British and other Euro-
pean oarsmen have been
holding for the past 20
years. The official explana-
tion is that the action of
the foreign devils in
attempting to establish an
annual custom is darned
presumption and one not
justified by their treaty
rights. One aspect of the provincial authori-
ties’ action commends itself to Australians,
and that is the suppression of yet another
“Henley.” Australia is infested with Henleys
on Swan, Torrens, Yarra, Tarban Creek
and Brisbane until they are a weariness of
the flesh.
* * * *
“The Hippogryph” : The problem of martyr-
4om always arises when mobs come into
collision with the police. No doubt innocent
heads were hit at Rothbury; they certainly
were in Fremantle during the 1919 wharf
riot, and in Melbourne during the police
strike. For the first few nights after that
strike, before the loyal remnant and McCay’s
specials lumbered into action effectively,
centre-city streets were crowded, mild sight-
seers from the suburbs mingling with toughs
on the alert for loot. It was impossible for
the police to distinguish the curious from the
furious, and no one denies that blameless
persons were batoned. Nicholson, then Corn-
missioner of Police, countered the howl of
execration by issuing a warning to law-
abiding people to get to their suburbs after
business and stay there till the situation
eased, conveying that if they were found in
city streets they would only have themselves
to blame if they as well as known hoodlums
were thumped. The logic was irreproachable,
There were subsequent batonings and toes
trodden by troopers’ horses, but no more cries
of “Martyr!” Complaints excited only the
retort “Well, why were you there looking
for it?”
“There are quite a number of books my husband won’t let me read.”
“Yes? I suppose that’s what they mean by the banns of marriage.”
“Elsie Ghee”: Salesmen and customers
enjoyed a strange interlude in a Sydney
shop devoted to the sale of small but costly
articles of vertu. A party, father, mother
and daughter, arrived to purchase a gift it
was proposed to make at an estimated cost of
under £2, but a display of goods induced a
change of plan and it was agreed to spend
£5. It was not, however, until the article
was wrapped and the pay docket presented
that the trio realised that money was short.
Daughter put down the £2 she had brought,
and father dredged his pockets and raised
ten shillings and a few stamps. “You got
any, Mother?” they said. Mother blushed.
“Oh, yes,” she said, “I’ve got plenty,
but” There was a grinning audience by
now. “Can I get at it?” asked Father,
understanding. “No, you can’t!” snapped
Mother; “not fcerc/” Father whispered
something to the shop-assistant, who could
only shake his head. There was a deadlock,
with the young woman clamoring to be gone.
“Perhaps,” ventured the shopman “you
could pay a deposit now and call for the
parcel later.” Father was back in half an
hour, alone. He laid a £lO note on the
counter. “Plenty this time,” he said cheer-
fully. “It was never a matter of solvency,
only of accessibility!”
* * * *
“Talord”; Prospect station, once owned by
Patrick Coady Buckley, whose £20,000 is
going begging for want of claimants, was
never much of a run. The homestead is a
couple of miles from the sea and about
20 miles from Sale, Gippsland. Merriman’s
Creek runs through what was once part of
the property ; it used to teem with fish —
mostly mullet and whiting. Prospect Re-
serve, now too prettily named Seaspray, was
the camping ground of old-timers. They built
real camps in those days. An ordinary family
camp consisted’ of a 15 x 20 ti-tree-laced
living-room with a tarpaulin top. and several
small sleeping tents half circled by a 12ft.
windbreak. William Buntine and his family
pioneered it as a holiday resort. After it
became popular as many as 50 camps would
be there around Christmas time.
* * * *
“Spadassin” : Being a connoisseur of the
neglected art of the duello, I am grieved to
read in a Sydney journal of the faux pas
made by George Lambert. As the news-
paper tells the story, the painter entered into
a controversy with some person and chal-
lenged him directly, asking him to name his
weapon. A frightful solecism. The aggrieved
artist should have at once poniarded the
offender or, failing that, sent a friend to wait
on him. It is the intermediary’s business to
arrange the details, the choice of weapons
being left, of course, to the challenged party.
It is distressing to find a person of the same
cult as Benvenuto Cellini trying to introduce
rules of his own into the game that immor-
tal assassin played so magnificently.
* * * *
“Jobber”: I was helping a Digger with
some workmen’s compensation paper’s. I
knew he had a wife and three children,
although he looks very young. “Age last
birthday?” I asked, pen in hand. The reply
was a staggerer: “28.” He then told me his
hideous past. He enlisted at 14|, and served
for -over 13 months in France, where he left
an eye. Sent back to Australia, he got into
khaki again (his glass eye is a particularly
good one), but just before the unit was to
proceed overseas, an unfriendly corporal
blew the gaff to the C.O.
# * * *
“Bad Australian”: A large, aggressive-
looking individual boarded the train about
midnight, and, dumping his swag in the rack,
lit his pipe and proceeded to make himself
comfortable. At the next stop a small,
unobtrusive-looking citizen entered and
claimed the seat. “Aw,” said the big man,
“I say it ain’t your seat. But s’posin’ it
is, wot then? All yer got ter do is ter pelt
me out.” The little man faded away, to
return a few minutes later with the con-
ductor, who pointed out that the aggressive
person’s ticket did not correspond with the
number of the seat, and that if he persisted
in being a nark he would be put off the
train. “Orriglit, orright!” the big man re-
plied. “You win, young feller” ; and he left
the compartment.. Presently the shrill pro-
tests of a damsel were heard above
the roar of the train. The conductor in-
tervened, whereupon the large person with
the swag waved a ticket under his nose and
demanded, “Ain’t this car Number twenty,
an’ ain’t this seat Number six?” Recog-
nising that he was in a tight corner, the
conductor offered to find the truculent voy-
ager a “bonzer possie in a smoker.” The
unwelcome stranger laughed like a hyaena.
“You wuz right when y’ said I wuz a
nark, mister,” he roared, “an’ I’m goin’ ter
keep on bein’ a nark. But, mind yer, it’s
your fault, not mine.” And he settled down
to be the third party in a compartment
otherwise occupied by a couple just off cn
their honeymoon.
:!: * *
“D.McM.” : Sir John Bloggs was staggered
by St. Peter’s news that he had no heavenly
hope of crashing the pearly gates, j “It’s
monstrous!” boiled the K.B.E. “It’s illegal,
that’s what it is! I insist on my right
to see a lawyer. Be good enough to send for
one.” “I’m sorry,” said the prominent and
popular saint, as he turned the lock. “We’ve
never had one on the premises!”
He * # ❖
“Hamer”: Part of the fortune which was
paid recently for the freehold of a Sydney
hotel came from a gin-bottle filled with
water. The bottle was kept in a special
niche on a shelf for production whenever
the proprietress, an affable dame, was in-
vited by free-spending customers to join
them in a drink. The customer, seeing the
label on the bottle (or perhaps two labels),
had no suspicion that he was being charged
a shilling for giving the lady a nip of
water. An arithmetical barmaid reckoned
that the bottle was worth £lO a week, at
times, to the house; at £5OO a year it must
be regarded as one of the most valuable
bottles in the world.
* * * *
“Cartot” : Razor-gangsters are no novelty
in Sydney. In February and March, 1840,
there was a local outbreak of assault-and-
robbery cases in which the victims were
menaced, and in some cases slashed, with
razor-blades fitted in wooden handles. A man
who was held up in Hyde Park was relieved
of his cash and then nicked in the ear for
having yielded so little. A few days later
a dead body, identified as that of one of the
ruffians concerned in the outrage, was found
near the spot where it had occurred. The
police theory was that the victim, aided
perhaps by friends, had got even for the
mutilation; but no arrest was ever made.
After that razor robberies ceased suddenly.
* * * *
“Griffith Moses”: A citizen who had slain
his wife and expressed regret that he hadn’t
done another killing as well was judicially
suspended the other day in Adelaide. There
is a great deal of argument on the subject
of capital punishment, but the Scripture
gives any God-fearing person very little lati-
tude. It says in Exodus (chapter xx, verse
13) that Smith shall not wilfully slay Jones
—these names are not mentioned but are used
here by way of illustration. And in the
commentary which follows (chapter xxi,
verses 12 and 14) it is stated in the firmest
manner that Smith shall be executed if he
does, and may even be arrested in church
for the purpose.
.j. * * *
“Caractacus”: Before the vogue of the
time-payment talking-machine, the mouth-
organ, given a revived fame through being
used to play a requiem in Victoria, was the
musical instrument of the Outback. I have
heard it used to give the pitch for church-
service singing, as a dance orchestra (played
by the M.C. over the shoulder of liis dancing
partner) and as sole accompaniment at
socials and concerts. In Queensland (and not
too far out, either) mouth-organ contests,
solo and band, are still held.
WELL NIGH FOXED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“And so to bed well nigh foxed.” — Pepys’s Diary.
’Twas in far Stuart times, which were scarce
as sedate
As ours, that the Diarist got
Within easy distance at least of the state
We designate “blotto” or “shot.”
Never writer his lapses so frankly would
bare,
Though in cipher ’tis true they were boxed
For lifetimes. And somehow one cannot but
spare
A thought for the various other chaps there
When seasoned old Samuel could frankly
declare
He was perilous near being foxed.
Two centuries back and a half —was it sack
They tippled at Hogmanay then?
Or heady canary they downed with a, smack
To fill up their goblets again?
Had the wine of Oporto flowed free on that
night
Or usquebagli gone to his head
Upon the occasion whereof lie could write
He was-—not, be it noted, incapably tight—
But in a sufficiently bibulous plight
To know he’d be better in bed?
There be few who’re addicted to diaries now,
And fewer, it may be, to drink.
And fewest of all to themselves would allow
What Pepys recorded in ink.
Our dissolute ancestors 7 tliree-bottle men
Are vanished —or heterodoxed.
The world grows more sober, we all of us
ken....
Moreover I doubt it’s as candid as when
Relentless old Samuel could take up his pen
To all-but admit he’d been foxed !
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


“Nikko”: The men who go to collect the
time-payment pianola because of lapses in
the instalments have troubles of their own.
A big city firm decided to re-possess an ex-
pensive instrument which had been in a
suburban home for 18 months, and sent out
the carters who had delivered it in the first
place. But the honest fellows couldn’t get
it through the front-room door. They were
sarcastically invited by the hirer to saw a
piece off the pianola or break the moulding
round the door, but as either course pre-
sented difficulties, legal and otherwise, they
decided to leave the instrument and report
to the office. A local carpenter subsequently
admitted with a grin that he had been em-
ployed by Mrs. Jazzgarter to widen the
mouldings round two doors, evidently in
anticipation of an attempted removal of the
pianola. The problem is still unsolved..
* * *
“Shep”: The annual meeting was to be
held that day, and because the figures he
was due to broadcast show-ed a healthy mar-
gin the boss toasted everyone he could think
of. Before long he was discovered practising
his speech on a barmaid, and a deputation
urged him upstairs, extracting a promise that
he w-ould have a rest on the sitting-room
sofa until it was time to return. Everyone
else w r as ready, including a sprinkling of
skirted shareholders, but there was no
appearance of the boss. Just when it looked
as if the meeting would have to be ad-
journed, the voice of the week-old junior
floated into the board-room. “Tell ’em,” it
IT WAS HORSES SHE DISLIKED.
MARY (viewing a successful rival): “And that’s the girl who said wild horses wouldn’t
drag her to the altar!”
MARY's MA: “Yes, my dear! But the choice of half a dozen motor-cars was quite
different!”
said, “the old bloke’s runnin’ round the pub
without ’is pants. ’E says some cow
pinched ’em, and ’e wants another pair-
sneaked down to ’im.” The men promptly
adjourned for a smoke to give the women-
folk an opportunity to powder their blushes.
The misfits the boss arrived in and his
account of a car accident were much more
interesting than his exposition of the balance-
sheet.
“Hamer”: “Eureka’s” reference to Dind’s
Hotel > North Sydney (B 15/l/’3O) recalls
a protracted argument between an old gentle-
man and thc N g ydne y Council over the
latter’s attempt to rc-chrlsten the short
thoroughfare known as Dind-street. The
name-plate at the street corner having been
changed in spite of protest, the indignant
? d paity (no connection of the Dmd tarn j )
bung “P another .bearing the name he
honored. The council put up the new name-
plate once more; but as firmly the old gentle-
man, restored his sign Presently the council
weakened; it allowed two names to grow
o . nl5 ’ 011 p b ad been |P°I ted before.
ancients victory went further than i
appeared at the time, for when the thorough-
fare came into importance in the rearrange-
m('nt of the N. Sydney tram system it was
88 Dind-street.
„ Bundawaal : On Victorias Ninety-Mile
Beach, a few miles from where Patrick Coady
Buckley lived, there used to be a lookout,
built of tree-trunks' and crosspieces, which
was supposed to have been erected by cast-
away Dutch sailors before Captain Cook
poked Ins figurehead into an Australian bay.
When I was young I repeatedly heard grand-
father yarns about a Dutch ship alleged to be
buried in the sand there. And there was an
V ld wreek not far from the «P°L but we called
her the Tnncoola. Both the Alert and the
Glenelg went down with all hands off the
Ninety-Mile, and I remember a three-master
—the County of Antrim, carrying steel rails
£oi» .Scotland—coming ashore near Lakes
Entrance one stormy winters night. Her
cargo bridte loose and knocked a hole m
] ler s { do< but her captain beached her in time
to savo all hands
* * * ❖
“Morita”: I can remember a goat in a
C ar mix-up (B. 15/l/’3O). A full-grown
kelpie of evil repute had been sent to us
from t i ie bush. lie beat every mong. in the
district, and was still willing to tackle any-
tilin o- w flen we sooled him on to a heavy-
weight billy, one of the wandering pests of
the neighborhood. Honors were even till the
goat got p ro perly started on head jabs. Eyes
on the dog, lie was slowly retreating for lee-
W ay to make a fierce charge when a tourer,
minus hood and windscreen, skidded around
the corner Just as car and eoat met the
Tg flew at thmt Wkh Die
s h oc k of offensives fore and aft, William
fl ung himself upward, landing on the car’s
bonnet, and then gracefully rolled over on
top of the driver. We had to pull hard to
fetch him out, and he abandoned fight and
was missing for weeks—almost as long as it
took the driver to get rid of the odor from
himself and the upholstery,
* * * *
“10-2-4” : Sydney has its flagellants no
less renowned than those of the thirteenth
century, only instead of being burnt by others
at the stake they burn themselves by the
sea. You can see them stretched in thousands
on the sands of Coogee, Bondi, Manly, etc.,
goggles shading their eyes and towels their
heads in a few cases, but oftener with no
protection at all. There they lie, with their
crimson backs and shoulders peeling
agonisingly, inspired by a single thought—-
that of being what Arthur Adams has called
“the very brownest bather on the beach.”
It is the same spirit that inspires Chinese
women to bind their feet, and Polynesian
savages to stick bones through their noses;
that is to say, a combination of hardihood
and vanity. But our sun-bakers deserve
higher praise from those wiio admire such
feats. They take bigger risks (skin-cancers
are known to be caused by over-exposure to
the sun) and they have fewer chances to
exhibit the fruits of their Stylites-likc in-
difference to discomfort. The second dis-
ability will not be removed till shop assist-
ants. bank clerks and the like bring off a
successful strike for the right to wear shorts
in business hours.
* * * *
“0.8. E.”: Professor Gumboyle trembled
with excitement. His years of experimenting
were over. The fren-
zied human who was
engaged in maniacal
leaps and bounds in
the laboratory repre-
sented the consumma-
tion of his life’s work.
At last, by grafting
kangaroo glands on to
an athlete with the
vision of an eagle and
the ears of a. hare, he
had produced a pedes-
trian who could walk
through the city in
comparative safety.
“Hamer”: The most
enticing name ever
sported by a Sydney
tavern was “The Little
House Under the
Hill.” A man would
have to be lacking in
imagination to fail to
get a vision of cool
tranquillity from such
a title; actually the
Little House Under
the Hill was a dingy
place in disreputable
Duke-street, Woolloo-
mooloo, before it be-
came McElhone-strect,
standing at the foot of
Butler’s-stairs. It has
long since disappeared.
* *
“Iconoclast”: If re-
cent reports from
America may be trus-
ted, the tribulations
which await the ordi-
nary golfer when he
arrives on the green
are over for ever and
a day. The American
Golf Association has
sanctioned the use of
a mechanical putter
which eliminates the
factor of error. At
present 'the contrap-
tion is to be used only
to test the accuracy
of the putting greens,
but in these days of
change the time seems
close at hand when
the thing will be ad-
mitted as an adjunct
to the outfit of every
golfer. With this in-
strument and the invention of a peri-
patetic hole to be manipulated by the player
so as to chase the ball round the green until
it has been safely engulfed, a brighter era
promises to dawn for the common or garden
variety of golfer. The suggestion is not
copyrighted. Inventors are welcome to it.
* * *
“S.T.S.”: South Aus., which was founded
largely on Sturt’s report of his great boat
voyage down the Murray, and which later
had him as Surveyor-General, has gone
heartily into the centenary celebrations. Its
party joined up with those from N.S.W. and
Vic. at Wentworth, where the Murray junc-
tions with the Darling, and then moved
down-stream for a week, unveiling obelisk
memorials at Renmark, Loxton, the Nor’-
west Bend (Morgan), Mannum, and other
places, right down to Hindmarsh Island, just
inside the Murray mouth, still practically
impassable. At Point McLeay the natives
(one of whom not long dead claimed to
remember having seen the white men row
down) erected a cairn of their own, and
enlivened the opening proceedings with a
corroboree.
“Harold II.”: Interment at Waverley is
now a costly business ; yet half a dozen lots
there were bought as part of a “shout” by
a Sydney journalist of another generation.
The idea came to him when he had had a
good win at the races to insure against
the pauper’s burial that was the dread of
his usual impecunious days. He invited
some boon companions to go along while
he completed the transaction, and he actually
bought a grave for each of them. As they
all declined the gift he had the allotments
left on his hands; thereafter whenever a
subscription was taken up to meet the ex-
penses of some Bohemian’s funeral the press-
man came forward with a present of the
ground. When he himself died it was dis-
covered that he had been too generous. He
had left no lot for himself.
* * * *
“Jobber”: I suppose every unit in the
A.I.F. had its malingerers. The bird who
held the belt in our mob was called Dusty.
Before we had been at sea a week Dusty
was in the clink and ho stayed there until
he reached Egypt. He was back in the lines
when we camped at Maa’di, but only for a
week or two, as the fatigues and desert
training proved moi'e than lie was prepared
to endure. On one occasion as he walked
out of the orderly-room he stoushed the
sarn-major; that, of course, added a con-
siderable time to his sentence. The night we
marched out for the Peninsula, Dusty
marched with us; but in less than 48 hours
after we went into action he was under an
armed guard in Shrapnel Gully. A little later
he became notorious for addressing officers
emerging from their dug-outs, and the ex-
pressions he used were not those heard at
mothers’ meetings. In the end they sent
Dusty back to Egypt a prisoner, and I saw
him no more.
* * *
“D.”: Less than 30 years ago Sydney
business men walked about Coogee, Bondi
and even Manly in top-hats and frock-coats.
To-day hundreds of elderly men and thou-
sands of young ones get around all the
seaside suburbs in surfing costumes and
bath-gowns or flannel bags and open-necked
shirts. Every summer these garments draw
nearer and nearer to the city. At Potts
Point on any warm day you may see people
of both sexes wearing costumes so rational
that they would have caused public riots in
pre-war days. Evidently Nature intended
Sydneyites to go partially naked during
about half the year, but it has taken surfing-
cum-motoring to bring the fact home. In a
few years’ time there should be a fortune
in an overcoat-hiring business in the heart of
THE PARAGON.
“And what sort of a chap is he?”
“The finest man imaginable-so prompt with his alimony .”
the city. Bearing some catcliy name like
“Anti-Pneumonia, Ltd.,” it would let heavy
coats out to careless citizens either by the
hour or for the duration of the southerly.
* * * *
“Piecrust”: “H. Ilardupp’s” par. (B.
15/l/’3O) about coincidence in names would
have interested Melbourne City Court the
other day. Charles Rogers was called, and
there was a titter because Charles Rogers
was then presiding on the bench. John
Egan was next lined, and as he left the box
Jack Egan was requested to step up. Finally,
two G. H. Hardings were concerned in a
case; they were not related. I once knew
an old Sussex blacksmith named James
Albert Postlethwaite. He was a bit of an
eccentric, and very sensitive over his cog-
nomen, especially as. the school-children
abbreviated it to “Pongo.” One day a man
asked for a job, saying he was an expert
striker. “Name?” Pongo asked. .“James
Albert Postlethwaite” was thf reply. The
old man took the tongs to him. Nothing
could convince “Pongo” that it wasn’t an-
other joke.
“Hayband”: “Pawnticket’s” drunk (B.
15/l/’3O) or his twin brother mounted a
descending . escalator at Milson’s Point,
Sydney. While an amused crowd .watched
lie tried to climb faster than the stairs
fell. For a minute at a time he’d pedal
desperately, and perhaps gain a step or two ;
at other times the escalator won. At last
he topped the rise and, turning round,
dazedly surveyed the battlefield. “Tliatsh
longesht shtairs in Bri’sh Empire,” he said.
* * * *
“Murkali”: The Caves Express covers 35
miles between Sydney and Penrith in 40
minutes—Australia’s fastest piece of rail-
way travel. And, of course, flat-out speed
is impossible in the dense suburban network,
which extends for 15 miles. Clear of the
tangle this steam hurricane consistently exr
ceeds a mile a minute. Seven Kills (20
miles) is passed well under the half-hour,
and the eight-mile stretch between Black-
town and St. Mary’s is put through in seven
minutes. Grades west of Penrith are ter-
rific —a rise of 3400 ft. in less than 40
miles. The train stops eight times in the
last hour, which means facing an up-grade
from a still start every seven minutes.
Despite this the over-all speed for the 79-
mile run to Mount Victoria exceeds 30
m.p.h.
* * * *
“Oran”: “Want some oranges, lady?” he
inquired as he saw me hurrying out the
gate. “Luvverly fruit, lady; two bob a
dozen.” I examined the specimen hurriedly
and produced the florin, prepared to run
back with a dozen fair-sized oranges. “Don’t
you bother to go back, lady,” the vendor
said affably: “I’ll run in with ’em. It’ll
delight their ’earts to see these bonzer
oranges.” But when I arrived home that
evening there were no symptoms of delight
apparent—nothing but scorn for my failure
as a purchaser. When I saw the dozen
wizened specimens the hand-cart man had
delivered I was silent from shock. “Three
shillings a dozen, too,” continued the family
bitterly. “We nearly refused to take them,
but the man was so indignant that we gave
him the money to get rid of him!” I kept
my part of the story to myself. But selling
uneatable oranges at sd. each must, be
tremendously profitable.
NERVES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“Once a man has mastered the Morse code he
quite unconsciously listens for it in everything, and
if he suffers from nerves it gets on them.”
—Bulletin, 15111’30.
My wife is washing up the plates,
And all my nerves are on the bound
To catch unpleasant things she states
In every little tinkling sound :
Dot, dot and dash;
Click, clatter, crash!
(“You stupid, don’t you think I know
The reason you to-night were late?
That typist girl, Mb's Soandso!
I’ll catch you with her yet—you wait!”)
I hear her as she keels the pot,
Or makes a discord with the knives,
Tapping her message dot by dot.
As is the way of angry wives:
Dot-dash, dot-dot!
(“You’ll get it hot,
My lad! I’m learning all about—
Doll Simpkins saw* you on the beach—
The way you take that hussy out.
Your tether’s end you soon will reach !”)
A broken cup its message sings
In perfect telegraphic style;
And whilst her coded anger stings
A man hasi got to sit and smile:
To read each dash
Aloud were rash!
(“You would-be sheik, you think I’m blind,
To all your goings-on of late!
But I am nothing of the kind—
I’ll make you sorry yet—you wait!”)
N.S.W.
PERCY PAWNTICKRT.


Visitors to Adelaide
WILL FIND
THE GRAND
COFFEE PALACE
AN IDEAL HOME.
Centrally Situated.
ALL CONVENIENCES—EVERY
COMFORT ASSURED.
EXCELLENT CUISINE.
LARGE MOTOR GARAGE
ATTACHED.
TARIFF: £3/10/- WEEKLY.
HINDLEY STREET,
NEXT WEST’S THEATRE.
EGmEE]!
r
§* AH3IA
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere*
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
When you come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher’s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike,
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
Bed
an d
° re *kfast
hriff
desired
Special tariff or inclusive terras.
&
HOTEL
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel,” Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some February birthdays :
Colonel Brinsmead (aviation), 47, and W. P.
Dunn, ex-N.S.W. Minister of Agri., 53, on 2nd; L.
E. Bennett, M.A., B.D. (Master of. Wesley Coll.,
Syd. Uni.), 52, on sth; Richard Linton (founder
of Big Brother movement in Aus.), 52, on 7th; Dr.
A. B. Walkom (gen. sec. of Australasian Science
Assoc.), 41, on Bth; Allan Wilkie, 52, on 9th;
Robt. Garran (Federal Solicitor-General), 63, on
10th; John M. Chanter, ex-M.H.R., 85, on 11th; E.
H. Wittenoom (sometime W.A. Agent-Gen.), 76,
Albert J. Gould (formerly Pres, of Federal Senate)’
83, Prof. Carslaw (Syd.), 60, Prof. Ewart (Melb.),
58, and Major-Gen. Rosenthal, 55, on 12th; Arch-
bishop Kelly, 80, and Frederick Chapman (Vic. Nat.
Museum), 66, on 13th; Edward Lucas (S.A.’s ex-
Agent-Gen.), 73, and his successor, J. L. Price, now
M.H.R., 48, on 14th; “Banjo” Paterson, 66, Dr. L.
Keith Ward (Coal Commission), 51, and Bishop
Shiel (Rockhampton), 57, on 17th; Justice Macrossan
(Q.), 49, on 20th; H. I. Cohen, K.C. (Vic.), 58,
and Judge Drake-Brockman, 46, on 21st; Justice
Starke (High Court), 59, on 22nd; Octavius C.
Beale, 80, Norman Lindsay, 51, and novelist Jas.
M. Walsh, 33, on 23rd; W. A. Selle (Registrar of
Sydney Uni.), 47, and H. W. Apperly (A.M.P.
Soc.), 69, on 24th; J. A. Browne, K.C. (N.S.W.),
54, artist Percy Leason, 41, Staniforth Smith
(Papua), 61, Customs-Comptroller Ernest Hall, 59,
Capt. 11. S. Hudd, M.C., M.H.A. (S.A.), 49, and
S.A. Under-Treas. R. R. Stuckey, 49, on 25th; S.A.
Agent-Gen. Barwell, 53, and C. R. Chapman (N.S.W.
Treasury), 55, on 26th; medico-knight James Barrett
(Melb.), 68, on 27th; and Rev. W. G. Marsh (Adel.),
89 on 28th.
Harold Riggall, just dead at 47 in Mel-
bourne, bad the distinction claimed for him
of being the first Australian artilleryman to
land on Gallipoli. He was the only son of
the late William Riggall, of Blake and
Riggall, the, well-known firm of solicitors, in
which he himself became a partner. He was
a first-class athlete as well as a good soldier;
lie won the brevet rank of Colonel in the
war along with a C.M.G. and a D.S.O.
The average age of the present High
Court Judges is a trifle over 67. Duffy
is 77, Isaacs 74, Knox and Rich 66, Dixon
INSPECTOR
MACKAY, officer-in-
charge of the C.I.D.
Department, who had
the unpleasant job of
directing the baton
charges on the coal-
fields.
03 and Starke
58. Victoria has
furnished four
of them and N.
S. Wales two.
An unusual
sort of Judge
was Alexander
Buchanan, just
dead in Sydney,
where he had
lived in retire-
ment for years
past, at 81. He
was an auction-
eer at Clare
(S.A.) when at
the age of 36 he
took up law.
He soon became
S.M., and then
the Master of
S.A. Supreme
Court, his busi-
ness knowledge
nnd strong com-
monsense fitting
the position
exactly. II e
appears in that
capacity in a
painting, locally
famous, show-
ing the Bench
occupied by
W ay, Boucaut
and Bundey,
who sat on it
unchanged for
30 years. Later
Buchanan be-
came a Judge
himself, he and
the present
Chief Justice
Murray being
first breaks in the bad old system that
bad made the Attorney-General of the moment
the only man for a. judgeship falling vacant.
Passed out, at 50, Matthew Baird,
of Ballarat, soldier, lawyer and politi-
cian. At 20 he served as a private
m the Boer War; in August, 1914,
he was one of the first into khaki, and going
out to Gallipoli as captain he came back
a major. From 1911 to 1927 he represented
Ballarat West in Vic. Assembly. Bowser
made him Minister for Education in 1917,
and when Bowser resigned from the Cabinet
Baird succeeded him as Chief Sec. in
the Lawson Ministry and held office for over
four years. When Ballarat West and Bal-
larat East were amalgamated, Laborite
McAdarn beat Baird for the bigger consti-
tuency. Recurrence of ailments caused by
war service forced the ex-Minister to go into
Caulfield Military Hospital before Christmas.
He came out, he thought, considerably im-
proved in health, but he returned to the
Golden City only to die.
Norman Lindsay is publishing what the
cable calls his first novel in London at 51
( ‘Red Heap,” according to the message, “is
expected to be an outstanding event of the
spring publishing season”).
Actually his yarn of Mel-
bourne studio life has been a
best-seller in Australia for a
quarter of a century, and he
is one of the most accom-
plished short-story writers liv-
ing. His bush boys are as
closely observed as Tom Saw-
yer or Huek Finn, and they
are so Australian that, as a
London critic said, “they ex-
plain the Diggers.”
Colonel ,T. H. Bisdee, dead
at 60, was ‘a member of one
of the Speck’s oldest wool
families. lie was the first
Tasmanian to win a V.C.—
for rescuing an officer under
very heavy fire in September,
1000, near Warmbad in the
Transvaal. Bisdee was then
with the Tasmanian Bush-
men in Plumer’s dash on
Pietersburg. In 1015 he joined
up with the 12th Light Horse
in Sydney and later went to
the frolit as captain in charge
of a reinforcement. In Egypt
he served against the Senussi,
and was later appointed Pro-
vost-Marshal to the Anzac
Mounted Division. He mar-
ried a daughter of Matthew
Hale, the first Bishop of
Perth.
The world lost a distin-
guished scientist when Thor-
burn Robertson died at Glen-
elg (S.A.) last week aged only
45. A native of Edinburgh,
he was brought to Australia
at 10, and was entered at
Adelaide Uni. at IS. After
graduating with first-class
honors, he held various
appointments in the University of Cali-
fornia, and subsequently spent a year
at Toronto as Professor of Bio-chemistry.
He returned to Adelaide as Professor
of Physiology in 1919, and established
a world-wide reputation for his scientific and
industrial research-work, including the pro-
duction of insulin in Australia half a dozen
years ago. He married a daughter of the
late Edward Stirling, who preceded him in
his Adelaide ohair.
Of the 12 members of Vic.’s first Labor
Government, which was led by George
Elmslie and lasted for 13 hectic days in
1913, only three are now in the State Par-
liament. These are Prendergast and Lem-
mon in the Assembly, and Jones in the
Uppish House. Jones and Lemmon are in
the present Hogan team, but “Prendy” is
resting on his laurels. Senator Plain has
moved up to the Federal Parliament; Dave
Smith and Martin Hannah have become
private citizens.
Only a week or so before he died at Lind-
field, Sydney, the other day, poet Robert
Crawford climbed The Bulletin stairs to
leave, among other memories, a lyric that
ended:—
And I shall be as a dream of God,
That He had dreamed in vain.
The obsession of death was marked in his
recent verses. On an earlier visit he pressed
a brown-paper covered copy of a book of
his into the hands of one of the staff and
went off with his bowler hat and his flve-feet-
nothing. The “book” turned out on opening
to be a pound of steak, and there was a
hurried scuttle down the stairs and along
the street to get the right parcel from
Robert. He had plans lately for bringing
out another collection of his lyrics, but said
he could find no one in Australia to publish
them, and The Bulletin had to advise him
to send them to London. They should have
gone there, for there was a lovely spirit in
everything he wrote. He was born at Doon-
side (N.S.W.) in 1868, eldest of a batch of
12, and educated at King’s School, Parra-
matta, and Sydney Uni.
Syd Smith, who married last week at 73,
is almost the last of the N.S.W. Freetrade-
ciim-State Rights brigade that saw service
under old Henry Parkes. He was Parkes’s
Minister for Mines and Agriculture; being
the State’s first active Minister of Agricul-
ture (Tom Slattery, his predecessor, had not
starred the part) The Bulletin christened
him “Pumpkin”—and though that was 40
years ago it still sticks. A tall, spare, sad
man, bewhiskered as profusely as his ancient
idol, he sat in the Reps, for Macquarie till
E. S. Carr ousted him on the Sosh-Anti-Sosh
JOHN SULMAN, knight,
president of the Board
of Trustees of the
National Gallery, Syd-
ney, who have just
awarded the Archibald
Prize to John Long-
staff for the third time.
issue in 1907. Consistency is his strong point;
he is one of the few living Australians who
have held the same views for more than oO
years.
“Jeames” on an impoverished family:
Sydney “Sun” published a' photograph of the
square-jawed old Duke of Richmond and Gordon who
snubbed Edward VII. more than once when the latter
was Prince of Wales, with its cabled news that the
art treasures of Goodwood House are being sold.
Actually the treasures are being sold because of
the ancient’s death in 1928, and the delicate health
of the present duke, who was badly knocked in the
war. This is one of the poor duke-
doms. Its principal revenue comes
from Goodwood Racecourse, which
is behind a hill at the back of the
ancestral mansion. Most of the rest
of the park is monopolised by a
golf club. Unless the present duke
can perform the miracle of remain-
ing alive for at least 15 years, his
successor will be something like a
pauper after paying death duties.
Instead of marrying an American
millionairess, he recently wedded
the daughter of an indigent parson.
He was employed in a ’plane-
manufacturing works at Hendon at
the time.
A. 11. Moore, just dead in
Sydney at 78, had devoted a
long life to stock and station
business and occupied an out-
standing position in the world
of wool. For nearly 40 years
he was general manager of
Harrison, Jones and Devlin,
and when that firm amalga-
mated with Goldsbrough, Mort
and Co. he became chairman
of the Sydney board of advice.
When the British Govern-
ment took over the Australian
wool clip in the war years lie
was appointed a member of
the central wool committee.
He had been president of the
N.S.W. Employers’ Federation,
and was one of the oldest
members of the A.J.C.
Andrew Charlton, the record-
breaking swimmer, is a grand-
son ; grand-dad was Andrew,
too.
G. H. Smithers was for 26
years a N.S.W. stipendiary
magistrate ; he retired 12 years
ago and died the other day. On the bench lie
had several little mannerisms, one of them
particularly marked. “It’ll be a nice holiday
for you,” he would say grimly when he
sentenced an unregenerate, and the Court
came to look for the phrase. The day came
when the beak was severely admonishing a
youthful offender. “If you do not mind going
to gaol in this life there is still Hell to be
faced in the next,” he reminded the delin-
quent. “It’ll be a nice holiday for you, your
Worship,” broke in the incorrigible smartly.
The laughter that followed decided the magis-
trate that it was time to cut the phrase out.
Allan Davidson, who died in London last
month (B. 15/l/’3O), was a son of J. J.
Davidson, of Thackaringa station, N.S.W.
He graduated at the Adelaide School of
Mines as a metallurgist and mining en-
gineer, and w*as still in his early twenties
at Ivalgoorlie when he did important work
in determining the value of telluride. At
26 he led an exploring party from Bar-
row Creek to the Westralian border which
resulted in the discovery of Tanami. He
charted his track so well that the S. Aus.
Government purchased the maps. From Aus-
tralia he went to West Africa, and thence
to Chili. He was one of the few survivors
of the torpedoed Fullabar in ,1917. From
that trip he returned to London in an over-
coat and one sock. At the end lie was
practising as a consulting engineer in London.
Westralian Premier Fhilip Collier was
born at Woodstock (Vic.) nearly 57 years
ago. He arrived at Boulder in 1904 and
obtained a job as a municipal laborer. A
year later he secured the Labor nomination
for the, seat, won it after a stiff contest and
has held it ever since.
A double-barrelled long-distance record is
claimed by V. Pope, who has been “postie”
in the Ryde (Sydney) district for 42 years,
and has trudged approximately 176,400 miles.
Grandfather Pope opened the first cobbler’s
shop in Ryde; his son had an assorted
variety of jobs as postman, town clerk,
C.P.S. and organist at old St. Anne’s Church.
When a junior was appointed as telegraph
messenger, the job went to Pope No. 3, and
his sister became the first woman telegraphist
in N. S. Wales.
Vic. Public Service will miss A. H'.
Merrin, Sec. for Public Works and Mines,
who retires this month. He was Chief
Inspector of Mines before becoming a per-
manent head. After graduating in engi-
neering at Melb. Uni. he was in private prac-
tice till' he was 42. As a Government official
he showed administrative ability as well as
professional skill. He took a prominent
part in opening up the brown coalfields at
Morwell, and proved himself a sound adviser
in the starting of Wonthaggi.
Syd Martin, lately in Australia from the
New Hebrides on a holiday, occupies a posi-
tion almost unique among Island traders in
that he runs a sheep station, and sends the
wool to the Sydney sales. His flock are
f.a.q. merinos, and the country is much like
that of the coastal districts of Central
Queensland where he learned his sheep lore.
Eromanga, where his run is, is a spot
renowned in missionary history; it was there
the Martyrs of Eromanga were clubbed and
kai-kai’d by their unsophisticated flock.
“Lex”: Frank Froest (he changed his
surname to Frost during the war), the arres-
ter of Jabez Balfour, Crippen and other
malefactors, who has just died, had the best
memory for faces of any detective in Eng-
land when in his prime. He was the bane
of Australian cardsharpers and confidence
men in London, and was always chosen for
a certain class of blackmail case. After
the Oscar Wilde trial he was given the deli-
cate job of terrorising some hundreds of per-
verts (many of them in high social posi-
tions) out of England. In collaboration with
Hawkins, J„ he had practically freed Lon-
don of these unsavory characters by the
end of last century. Ilis method was to
get blackmailers convicted (relying on Haw-
kins to give the maximum sentence) and then
suggest France or Italy as a suitable home
for their victims —the victims, in his view,
being invariably guilty. He claimed 20
years ago that he knew all the world’s lead-
ing cardsharpers personally, as well ashy sight.
Detective Allchurch, dead in Adelaide
after a long illness, at 62, was one
of the escort who travelled with the Prince
of Wales to Tasmania. Till his last illness
he was police prosecutor. But he came most
into the limelight in 1910, when he went to
the south-eastern district of S.A. disguised
as a swagman, to look into sheep stealing
on an extensive
scale at Tanta-
noola. A few years
before there had
been persistent
rumors of a tiger
occasionally seen in
that district. The
striped beast be-
came a joke at
last; when the
sheep - slaughterer
was brought to
account—he had
regular yards in
the dense ti-tree
scrub, and he got
six years’ hard
labor —the familiar
name of “Tanta-
noola Tiger” was
shifted to him; and
the present genera-
tion forgets the
quadruped, which
may have escaped
from a circus, or
from a rum bottle,
or have been just
a dingo with odd
marking.
F. W. Mabbott,
Clerk of Vie. Ex-
ecutive Council,
reaches the retiring
age (65) in
October. He quali-
fied for the place
as assistant to his
predecessors, Tom
Brisbane and R. S.
Rogers, and he has
seen 21 Govern-
ments come and go.
Mabbott will be
succeeded by his
understudy, C. W.
Kinsman, editor of
the “Government
Gazette.”
Died recently at
Christchurch
(M.L.), Mrs. Han-
nah McLeigue, aged
“GOOD OLD
PIDDO,” for whom
THE BULLETIN
would, never have
anything but praise
if he would stick to
writing books—not
about Economics.
The Red Page to-
day has a review of
his latest—“Wor-
rshipful Masters.”
76, a shrewd business woman full of Irish
humor and known to all as “Mother She
scorned motor-cars as rattlin’ conthrivances
o’ the Divil,” and rode in a high dog-cart to
the last. On one occasion a cow she had
bought at Addington went missing, and
“Mother” sleuthed it to the abattoirs, and
sorted it out from a herd in the yard. Its
only “earmark” was a .smear of black boot
polish upon the udder imposed from a little
tin which the old lady carried around with her.
Among the New Year titles was one for
Maude Itoyden, the ingratiating and plati-
tudinous lay preacher who has prattled to
thrilled Australian audiences in favor of
cigarette smoking, short skirts and birth
control—some of her remarks on the last
subject would have gone near to earning
her a term of imprisonment in good Vic-
toria’s golden days. Even last month she
would hardly have been passed into the
company of the elect if she had not been
sound on the divine origin of the Empiah.


R°NE5>
DIARY
FOR 1930
NOW
READY,
Has
a Page
for
Every Day
Cloth
Bound, Gold
Lettered.
Size, 91 x 6i
Price 10/-
Post, 1/- extra.
ś
RONEO CO. Ltd., 21 Hunter St., Sydney.
ŝ
WATER FILTRATION
For manufacturing purposes clear water is
essential. The “SWIRL” FILTER gives
a large output and is specially suitable for
Ice Works, Butter Factories, Laundries, etc.
Also Sole Manufacturers of the well-known
“Abbot” Germ-proof Filters, pressure or
crockery, for household use, Cordial
Factories, etc.
Catalogues on Application.
Guthridge Limited
Sole Manufacturers
10-12 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY
INSURE WITH THE
Mercantile Mutual
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Company—
Established 1878.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
Agencie* in all Suburban and Country Central.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Producers and Citizens’ Co-op. Assurance.
Industrial
Ordinary Department—Dept.
Income. Claims. Exes. Losses. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1923.. 111,164 4,074 75,492 8,251 7,599
Funds.*
1924.. 127,788 10,083 73,728 12,886 23,492
1925.. 143,435 9,315 100,958 12,347 44,307
Freehold written up, £34,609 . . . . 78,916
1926.. 155,608 13,922 94,005 6,765 119,832
1927.. 167,993 20,139 101,284 8,144 158,258
1928.. 196,514 22,374 114,111 137 218,150
Surplus.
1929.. 200,012 42,909 98,385 512 277,380
*Net funds' apart from capital.
Last year’s figures received a set-back as
a result of difficult conditions in the country
districts. Of all the State branches, Queens-
land alone maintained its average; else-
where operations were restricted. Also, claims
were the heaviest in the co.’s history. Thus
the hitherto encouraging growth in funds
was definitely checked; the surplus in all
departments was £59,230, compared with
£59,8921 in the previous year, when there
were less assurances on the books.
Of the life offices formed in post-war
days, the co. is one of the most promising.
It began in 1920 with a deficit of £14,000
(the amount paid, in shares, to the pro-
moter), and, having linked up with strongly-
established farmers’ organisations through-
out the Commonwealth, it began to de-
velop a quickly-increasing premium income.
During its nine years of policy-chasing the
co. has written £17,704,615 of business,
mostly of a satisfactory quality. In 1928
it was reported that over 85 p.c. of the
business done was whole of life, and it. is
understood that that average is being
maintained.
The table of income and outgo starts from
the time the Ordinary and Industrial figures
were separated, and shows the position after
making various adjustments in the accounts.
Last year, for instance, £9200 of expen-
diture was charged to establishment account
and then written off out of revenue; it is
shown simply as expenditure in the table,
together with an unexplained reduction of
£2495 in the depreciation reserve. The sur-
plus in the Ordinary department (£58,718),
and the first surplus to be shown by the
Industrial department (£512), made the net
funds (apart from share capital) £277,380 at
August 31.
Here are details of policies and income m
the Ordinary department:—
1924. 1928. 1929.
Ordinary:—
—Policies issued.. 3,130 3,277 2,662
Assuring .. £1,679,669 £1,650,380 £1,260,727
Renewal premiums 80,673 139,217 152,926
First premiums 43,850 41,550 29,467
Interest and rent 3,265 15,747 17,619
Less business was written than at any time
since the Ordinary and Industrial figures
were separated; total assurances were
£389,653 smaller under 615 fewer policies.
The average amount of policy was £476
as against £503 and £507 in the two pre-
ceding years. The position in respect of
lapses has been encouraging; to date it is
said that over 80 p.c. of the premiums falling
due for renewal have been collected. Last
year the £182,392 of premium income and
£17,620 which came in from interest and
rents, etc., cost £98,385 to handle. Exes,
were equal to 49.1 p.c. of total income, com-
pared with 58.1 p.c. in the previous year.
But owing to the drop of £12,083 in first
premiums (£29,467) the new business cost
was much higher. Assuming that it con-
sumes 74 p.c. of the renewal premiums to
handle old business, and charging the bal-
ance against first premiums, the cost rate
was 295 p.c. last year as against 249 p.c.
in 1928 and 240 p.c. in 1927. This means
that nearly three years’ premiums have to
be gathered before anything can be put away
for the day when policies will become claims.
Much better than that will have to be done
if bonus prospects are to become attractive.
The claims paid last year were nearly
double those of the previous term, though
they are said to be still well within the
estimated provision for mortality. Hitherto
they, had been very low; they should be
low in a young office.
In 1925 the actuary estimated liabilities
under policies at £143,233. To bring the
assurance funds up to that amount £55,026
was added to the establishment account,
making it £72,925, at which figure it still
stands. An extra £34,609 was added to
funds by writing up the book value of
freeholds to £90,000; thus, on paper, pro-
viding a further margin against future in-
creases in policy liabilities. Following this,
bonuses to policy-holders of £2 p.c. on whole-
of-life and £1 10s. p.c. on endowments were
handed out. But they were not really
earned, and will have to be made up sooner
or later at the expense of shareholders or
policy-holders themselves.
The actuary is due to make his next
overhaul when the current year closes;
until then it will not be possible to ascertain
the sufficiency or otherwise of the life fund.
But, assuming that net surpluses earned
since last valuation are sufficient to cover
the increased policy liabilities —and that is
not • certain —then £54,609 of the £377,306
at which the assurance fund stood at August
31 belongs to shareholders, who could thus
see about Bs. of each £1 of capital repre-
sented by net assets. Whether there are to
be any bonuses to policy-holders or divs. to
shareholders in the near future will largely
depend on the results of the actuary’s
examination this year.
Here are details of the financial position :
1925. 1928. 1929.
Government securities.. £43,833 £55,401 £56,981
Mortgages . . .. 18,656 61,836 53,603
Loans on policies .. 4,905 19,919 31,699
Book debts, cash, etc. 84,488 100,411 86,295
Equipment . . . . 8,464 11,732 16,229
Freehold ■ • • • 2,000 103,994 154,636
Total tangible assets .. £162,346 £353,293 £399,443
Liabilities* .. . • 6,751 24,980 12,060
Net tangibles .. .. £155,595 £328,313 £387,383
Assurance fund . . 88,207 317,580 377,306
Paid capital . . . . 108,340 108,495 108,495
*Apart from premiums paid in advance.
During the year the co.’s new premises were
completed; the item (£154,636) appears at
£64,636 more than it did before rebuilding
operations were commenced in 1928. _ No
difficulty was experienced in obtaining
tenants, it is said.
The Industrial department has at last been
able to show a surplus:—
Income. Claims. Exes. Loss.
1923 .. £4,822 £3 £13,070 £8,251
1924 .. 9,884 104 22,666 12,886
1925 . . 12,300 408 24,239 12,347
1926 .. 16,974 2688 21,051 6,765
1927 .. 18,759 1695 25,208 8,144
1928 . . 25,248 1329 24,056 137
Surplus.
1929 .. 28,136 1810 25,814 512
Last year 6607 policies, assuring £860,161,
were issued. That is £145,720 more cover
than was taken out under 6372 policies in
the previous year. Claims, as usual, were
light, and exes, dropped to 91.7 p.c. of the
year’s premium income, compared with 95
p.c. and 134 p.c. in the two preceding years.
The figures are encouraging.
Queensland Probate Insurance Cos.
Ordinary Life Department.
Excess
Sept., Income. Claims. Exes. Income. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
Promoters’ shares, preliminary exes., etc. 26,385
1923.. 7,319 Nil 12,888
Added establishment account, £10,149.. 42,103
1924.. 8,434 600 8,530
Added establishment account, £9892.. 52,691
1925.. 15,036 19 13,924 1093 51,598
Added establishment account, £14,386.. 65,984
1926.. 22,027 3909 15,211 2907 63,077
Added establishment account, £3452.. 66,529
1927.. 27,333 1394 19,807 6132 60,397
Added establishment account, £IBO.. 60,577
Transfer from Accident Dept., £3000.. 57,577
1928.. 38,536 2451 28,872 7213 50,364
Added establishment account, £4997 .. 55,361
1929.. 43,153 3587 28,393 11,173 44,188
This youngster set up in 1922, but the
business hung back at the start. Two years
later there was a change in the management;
but meanwhile establishment charges, in-
cluding the cost of opening offices at Sydney
and Perth and the promoters’ cut (£15,000
in shares), had run off with £42,799 of the
£57,645 of paid capital. The Perth office
was very soon, closed; and though this and
other changes brought an improvement in
the figures, their growth has been kept m
check by keen competition. A little over
a year ago the small life and accident busi-
ness of the Empire Life and General in
Queensland and Victoria was bought, and
that helped. Then, last year, an office was
opened in Melbourne; but the most obvious
result from that so far has been the addi-
tion of £4997 to the establishment account,
raising it to £79,432 at Sept. 30. At that
date paid capital was £153,520 in 25,890
fully-paid 10s. 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and 570,07 b
10s, ords. called to ss. ...
During its seven years of policy-writing
the co. has put £2,245,887 of business on
the books, and built up a net income of
£43,153 (£37,829 in premiums and the
balance in interest, etc.) for the 12 months
to Sept. 30 last. That is apart from fire
and accident business. Also, if the amounts
charged to establishment are disregarded, the
margin between income and outgo is widen-
ing, though it is doubtful whether there is
yet any profit in it. Of course a young life
office cannot be expected to earn profits for a
few years. The speed or otherwise witn
which it arrives at the profit-earning stage
is very largely governed by the cost at which
the management is able to handle the busi-
ness. The Q.P.l’s figures are moving de-
finitely in the right direction, but a lot of
ground must be gained yet before policy-
holders can look forward to regular bonuses,
or shareholders can hope for dividends.
Last year 1159 policies were issued for
£479 less than it cost to write 894 policies
in the previous term; and exes, took 75 p.c.
of the net premiums as against 86.1 p.c.
and 87.9 p.c. in 1928 and 1927 respectively.
Now look at the business from another
angle:—
1924. 1926. 1928. 1929.
Policies .. 325 608 894 1,159
Assuring .. £105,045 £266,015 £501,073 £476,341
First premiums 4,121 8,352 13,488 12,436
Renewal _ _
premiums.. 3,560 10,522 20,041 20,393
The average amount per policy dropped
back to £4ll compared with £560, £490 and
£437 in the three previous years. The aver-
age premium per cent, was £3 10s. 2d. as
against £3 15s. Id. and £3 14s. 6d. in the
two preceding years; an indication that
either more whole-of-life business was writ-
ten or of a younger age at entry of pro-
ponents, or both. Of the business accepted
72 p.c. was whole-of-life, and 77 p.c. of the
business in force two years ago belonged to
the same class. These are good figures;
satisfactory also is the position in respect
of lapses, which are usually one of the
most fruitful sources of waste. Before
deducting reassurances last year’s renewal
premiums amounted to £30,945 out of a
possible £39,504, or approximately 80 p.c.
as against 75 p.c. three years back.
The co., as its name indicates, set out to
specialise in probate insurance, and a high
percentage of renewals can usually be ex-
pected in this class of business. But mostly
probate premium rates are below those for
ordinary whole-of-life with-profits policies,
and that tends to make it expensive business
to write. On the generally accepted basis
that first premiums are 10 times more ex-
pensive than renewals, last year’s busi-
ness cost 189 p.c., compared with 186, 197
and 161 p.c. back to 1926. Thus the third
year’s premium has to be gathered before
anything can be put by to meet the inevit-
able day when the policy becomes a claim.
The protection for policy-holders is mostly
in good-quality assets: —
1923. 1928. 1929.
Government securities.. £13,681 £71,803 £72,577
Mortgages, etc. .. —• 14,334 14,778
Loans on policies ..
Book debts .. .. 6,751 12,683 14,844
Cash, etc, .. •• 1,746 2,551 5,126
Equipment, etc. .. 3,181 6,213 7,745
Freeholds .. • •
Total tangible assets .. £25,359 £108,372 £116,454
Sundry creditors .. 2,932 1,336 1,973
Net tangible assets .. £22,427 £107,036 £114,481
Life fund .. .. Nil 24,072 35,244
Paid capital .. • • 54,326 153,007 153,520
Assuming that the life fund covers liabilities
under policies, or nearly so, there was a
wide margin of security. After deducting
the life fund, the pref. capital was covered
over six times by net tangibles, and the
ords. could see 9s. sd. of every £1 of their
capital still intact.
In the Accident branch things have moved
in this way:—
Accident Department,
Re-
Sept., Income. Claims. Exes. Surplus, serves.
1923.. 163 10 98 55' 55
1924.. 119 33 64 22 77
1925.. 96 15 53 28 105
1926.. 1,236 111 306 819 924
1927.. 5,853 1,027 1621 3205 4129
Written off establishment account, £3000.. 1129
1928.. 11,528 4,371 3894 3263 4392
1929.. 25,980 19,712 5511 757 5149
Though income more than doubled last year,
and exes, took pnly 21.4 p.c. of the net
premiums as against 34.6 p.c. in 1928,
claims mounted to 76.6 p.c. compared with
38.4 p.c. So, after reserving £10,240, equal
to approximately 40 p.c. of the year’s net
premiums, for unexpired risks, etc., there
was a balance of £5092 on the wrong side of
the revenue account.
Swan Brewery (Perth).
Dividends and
, —Dividend Tax Writ-
Pref. ten Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. Ordinary. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Mar.,’2l.. 29,074 1500 20 p.c. =20,290 2,737 273,770
Sept.,’2l.. 20,885 1500 20 „ „ 20,290 4,172 268,693
Mar., ’22.. 29,073 1500 20 „ „ 20,290 3,061 272,914
Sept.,’22.. 19,400 1600 16 „ „ 16,232 4,630 269,952
Mar.,’23.. 33,618 1500 20 „ ~20,290 6,159 275,621
Sept.,’23.. 22,608 1500 16 ~ „ 16,232 166 280,331
Premiums on new shares, £21,035.. 301,366
Mar.,’24.. 43,252 1500 16 p.c.= 20,527 10,161 312,430
Sept.,’24.. 27,115 1500 16 „ „ 24,655 5,223 308,167
Mar., ’25.. 44,736 1500 16 „ ~ 24,655
Sept.,’2s.. 23,360 1500 16 „ „ 24,655 425 323,628
Mar., ’26.. 46,391 1500 16 „ „ 24,655 10,182 333,582
Sept.,’26.. 28,112 1500 16 „ ~ 24,655 10,076 325,463
Profit on sale of assets, £13,720 .. 339,183
Castlemaine Brewery purchased.
Additions to reserves, £65,846 405,029
Mar., ’27.. 48,871 1500 16 p.c. =26,754
Sept.,’27.. 49,990 1500 16 „ „ 27,905 14,000 432,231
Premiums on new shares, £14,957.. 447,188
Emu Brewery purchased.
Additions to reserves, £58,933 .. 506,121
Mar.,’2B.. 61,406 1500 20 p.c. =42,531
Sept.,’2B.. 63,511 1500 20 „ „ 42,545
Mar., ’29.. 63,891 1500 20 ~ „ 42,545
Sept.,’29.. 48,761 1500 20 „ „ 42,545
Figures over the past three years reflect
the prosperity which has followed the
absorption of two old competitors. Earnings
have also been assisted by the general pro-
gressiveness of the State itself. The Castle-
maine brewery was bought in 1926 and the
Emu in the following year. Except for the
drop in earnings during the last half, since
then profits have shown consistent improve-
ment. The past year’s £112,652, after allow-
ing for the requirements of the prefs. (they
call for £BOOO p.a.), was equal to 25.8 p.c.
on average ord. capital compared with 28.6,
28, 23.7, 21.1 and 23.8 p.c. back to 1924.
No reason is given for the reduced earnings
during the September half; the drop may
have been due to seasonal conditions (the
September half includes the winter months),
but is more likely to be the result of extra
caution in estimating profits. The fact that
there is anew brewery co. on the stocks in
Perth, which is now offering 250,000 £1
shares to the public, may have influenced
the directors. The new co., Perth Breweries
(N.S.), Ltd., will have full Westralian rights
to the Nathan system, and is to acquire the
business of the Northam Brewery.
For the 12 months to Sept. 30 last gross
profit (£276,102) fell away £19,759, but exes.
(£168,993, including £19,462 for taxation)
were also £11,098 lower; thus the net result
as shown in the accounts (£107,108) was
£8661 below the 1928 figure. Also, the un-
explained additions to reserves (£5544) were
£3603 less than the 1928 allocations; so the
net result as per table (£112,652) fell away
£12,265.
The co. is in a strong position to meet
any competition or trade depression. The
office is in Melbourne, where a good deal of
the scrip is held, but the co.’s business is
confined to Westralia, which for some time
past has been the most prosperous of the
States. The directors, who are assisted by
a local board, are mostly principals in the.
big Melbourne combine. And the financial
structure is very solid. The absorption of
the Emu and Castlemaine cos. resulted in
the visible addition of £124,779 to reserves
—the purchase price for the two concerns
(£111,945) was mainly paid in Swan shares,
which were at a high premium on the mar-
ket. Though capital account (now £475,454)
has expanded £117,264 since 1926, the growth
in reserves lias outstripped that expansion.
The visible accumulation at September 30
last (£567,524) was £92,070 in excess of paid
capital.
Besides the r ves claimed in the accounts
there is the hidden strength, whatever it
may amount to, that may be assumed _to
exist in a concern which has been enjoying
so much prosperity. Assets are probably
worth more than their book value —brewery
plant, casks, etc., which cost £452,785, have
been visibly written down £249,847 since
purchase. Also, there may be something
useful hidden away in “Accounts in credit,
including goodwills accruing” (£97,221, up
£7750 during the year).
There has been a heavy outlay (mainly
on hotels) over the past 12 months: —
Sept.,’2s. Sept.,’2B. Sept.,’29.
Capital £358,190 £475,449 £475,454
Accounts in credit, etc.* 47,211 89,471 97,221
Other liabilities . . 80,939 86,326 96,736
Freehold and plant .. 663,051 830,843 923,305
Mortgages .. .. 51,988 43,978 41,479
Stocks 62,111 77,406 74,072
Shares in other cos. . . 6,897 111,234 111,722
Book debts .. . . 49,722 81,241 120,985
Cash, etc. .. . . 2,255 93,551 9,417
*lncludes goodwill accruing.
On brewery properties £19,571 was spent
(£7943 was written jiff), £39,384 on plant,
casks, etc. (£18,552 written off), and no less
than £81,798 on hotels, fittings, etc., which
were written down by during the
same time. The net growth in the book
value of fixed assets was thus £92,462.
Liquids were drawn upon to finance the
outlay. Treating accounts in credit, etc., as
a liability, the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£51,996, including mortgages and stocks)
was £69,383 lower. Shares in other cos.
(£111,722, up £488) include the shareholding
in the Emu co.; the assets of. the Castle-
maine co. were fused into the Swan business,
but the Emu co. continues to function as a
separate concern.
(Che market was disappointed by the re-
sults of the last term. The ords., which
were priced over 90s. in October, fell below
80s. in November, and have since remained
steady around 78s. The return at that
figure is slightly more than 5 p.c. on a 20 p.c.
div. basis.
The Federal Deposit Bank (Brisbane).
To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£/ £*£>£>
1918.. 4,449 12 p.c. = 3,344 1,105 17,813
1919.. 5,421 12 „ „ 3,344 2,077 19,890
Reserves capitalised, £12.151 . . 7.739
1920.. 6,913 12 p.c. = 3,688 3,225 10,964
1921.. 10,594 12 „ „ 6,096 4,498 15,462
1922.. 11.618 12 „ ~ 6,525 5,093 20,555
1923.. 14,027 12 „ „ 7,794 6,233 26,788
1924.. 18,277 12 „ „ 10.548 7,729 34,517
Additions to reserves, £7OOO .. 41,517
1925.. 23,487 12 p.c. = 13,272 10,215 51,732
1926.. 26,921 12 „ „ 17,863 9,058 60,790
1927.. 34,161 12 „ „ 24,354 9,807 70,597
1928.. 41,816 12 „ „ 33,123 8,693 79,290
1929.. 41,980 1.2 „ „ 34,845 7,135 86,425
The remarkable growth of this co., a recon-
struction of the old Federal Building, Land
and Investment Society, is beginning to slow


THE NEW
leads in Quality, Beauty
Luxury and in
aL
r
V
□
PRICES from £445
Prices given subject to change without notice,
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR.
Convenient payments can be arranged
on the liberal G.M.A.C. Terms Plan.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
Metropolitan Distributors;
BRISBANE :
Metropolitan Motors, Ltd.,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Boyd Edkins, Ltd.,
109 Phillip Street.
MELBOURNE:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.
Franklin Street.
ADELAIDE:
City Motors, Ltd.,
95 Waymouth Street.
PERTH:
Oldfield Motors,
Murray Street.
GENERAL MOTORS
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth,
SERVICE, too
T HE more thoroughly you com-
pare the new Buick with other
cars, the more clearly you will under-
stand why motordom is experiencing
the greatest swing towards Buick
that it has ever known.
Tremendous urge of arrestingly
new style . . . instant admiration of
its longer, lower lines • . . now take
the wheel. Drive her! Then it is
that you realise the full brilliance
of Buick—the brilliance of service
as distinct from its almost princely
luxury. You find new power and
speed; new security of braking; new
riding comfort; new balance and
road holding qualities.
You find the instant answer to
your question: “Why is the tide
of motordom turning so overwhelm-
ingly to Buick?”
You find an outstanding capacity
for SERVICE as the underlying
reason for the great good will in
which the new Buick is everywhere
held.
1930
It’s a General Motors Car -
look inside and note the difference
s


WHAT WILL
k 1930 BE?
I I
Are things going to
be bad?
Kow bad?
What should the In-
vestor do?
Can he save himself?
If so, how?
In these uncertain
days every investor —
even though it be only
in a life insurance
policy owes it to him-
self and his family to
keep himself informed.
Let the “Wild Cat
Monthly” help you.
JANUARY NUMBER
NOW ON SALE
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM,
22/0. .[Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
Patents.— Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * * *
Having secured your patent you need practical
advice on development. Consult Lewis Bros.,
Practical Engineers, 178 Oxford Street, Paddington,
Sydney. Moderate charges.— Advt.
* * * *
The outstanding advantages of Pioneer Wood Pipe
over metal pipe are recognised by leading engineers
all over Australia. Pioneer Wood Pipe is non-
corrosive—its flow actually increases with years of
use. It is extremely durable and gives long, trouble-
free service. It is unaffected by extremes of heat
or cold and is resistant to the destroying effects of
electrolysis. Being light, it is easily and cheaply
handled, freighted, transported and laid. Write for
illustrated catalogue to The Australian Wood Pipe
Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge),
Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at Footscray, Victoria.
—Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. ■ Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
s
ASSURED POSITIONS.
BETTER MONEY.
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and enter
a profession where there is a certainty of employment are advised to send for
. ller ® ,s ° ne Profession where the supply is not equal to the
demand. NOW is the time to begin.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
W&W26.
AUSTRALIAN
London Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRANft
BRAND
fA-Z.
Containing: about 99.9.5% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association
PTY,
LTD.
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting' Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ADFIELDS
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest anti best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadlields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and i
Foundries i
Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W,
Bassendean, Perth, W.A.
Branch (
Office J
422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
T. k G. Building, Brisbane, Q.
down its rate of profit-earning. Also, it
carries such big figures on its books that
the board is taking a more cautious view,
and proposes to reduce the dividend to 10
p.c\ until reserves grow more substantial.
Paid capital is nearly six times what it
was in 1922, and reserves have little more
than quadrupled over the same time. Also,
the co. depends more nowadays on its own
resources than it did seven years ago, and
while that means added safety it also means
smaller profits.
Last year interest, rents, etc. (£97,903),
brought in £4750 more, but exes. (£55,923,
including £7OOO set aside for taxation) con-
sumed £4586 of the increase, mainly be-
cause of a heavier interest bill. The net
result (£41,980), though £164 better than
the previous year’s, was equal only to 14.5
p.c. on average capital, compared with 16,
16.8, 18 and 21.2 p.c. back to 1925. The
directors had contemplated reducing the
div. to 10 p.c. for the past three years, but
partly because the Federal Income Tax law
makes it desirable to distribute more than
two-thirds of the annual profits, the 12 p.c.
div. was maintained. However, a 10 p.c.
div. will now absorb roughly that two-thirds,
the chairman says; which is another
way of saying that capital is not earning
quite as much as hitherto.
After the crash of the ’nineties it took
18 years for shareholders to get a dividend;
4 p.c. was paid in 1910. Prior to that there
had been two adjustments in capital; first,
7s. 6d. per share was struck off in 1896, and
in 1908 the remaining paid capital was cut
in halves, one-half being converted into de-
ferred debentures. It was then the present
title was adopted.
The div. climbed to 12 p.c. in 1918, and
has remained steady at that figure for 12
years—a hefty performance considering that
disclosed reserves were equal to only ss. sd.
for each £1 of paid capital at Sept. 30, and
considering also that the co. borrows at be-
tween 5 and 54 p.c. on fixed deposit, and
allows 3 p.c. interest on the minimum
monthly balances of current accounts. Last
year’s earnings were equal to 11.2 p.c. on
average funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) ; most of the big trading banks, which
have large inner reserves, averaged ■ little
more than 7 p.c. on funds last year. Yet
this co. is working on no more than £2 12s.
6d. of outside money for every £1 of its
own funds.
Shortly before the close of accounts in
1927 the board took a long look ahead and
issued 250,000 £1 ords. These are now called
to 2s. 6d., and, with payments in advance
of calls, paid capital is now £319,580. There
is thus another £180,420 of capital which
can be asked for if necessary as additional
security for the £1,064,225 of outside debt.
Government securities and cash were equal
to 41.1 p.c. of outside liabilities at Sept. 30.
Here are balance-sheet figures:—
1921. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Capital . . £52,725 £271,355 £299,177 £319,580
Deposits, etc. 303,562 940,000 1,040,465 1,064,225
Debentures .. 12,500
Advances . . 245,089 838,503 989,804 993,437
Premises, etc. 13,431 44,332 58,000 57,000
Govt, securities, t
etc. .. 60,657 191,640 202,100 258,500
Cash, etc. . . 69,195 220,309 185,898 178,890
Though an extra £23,760 of deposits was
in hand at Sept. 30, advances were only
£3633 greater. The object of institutions
like the Federal is, of course, to borrow
from the public and lend out again at a
higher rate of interest. Thus, in theory,
the more borrowed money that can be put
out at a profit the greater the immediate
returns to shareholders. In times of finan-
cial stress this principle can be carried too
far, as was well shown in 1893. On the
other hand, too much conservatism and idle
money usually mean small returns. It is
the job of a good management to strike the
happy medium.
For the fully-paid shares, backed by 255.
sd. in net tangibles, sellers now ask 28s.
6d. without attracting buyers. Before the
publication of the accounts the scrip changed
hands at 325. The return at the current
figure is 7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The
2s. 6d.-paids were last quoted at 65., sellers.
Limiting Tin Production.
The first step towards the limitation of
tin production as far as Australian cos.
operating in Malaya is concerned has been
taken. Last week the Alluvial Tin Group
announced that production would be re-
stricted on their seven wmrking mines as
from January 1. The group includes Chang-
kat, Kampar Tin Fields, Kampong Lanjut
and Rawang Concessions. These are among
the most considerable producers in Malaya,
and in- the last quarter of 1929 the quartette
recovered 1146 tons of t. 0., while the working
costs for the group are among the lowest.
Restricted output means a rise in working
costs, and what measures exactly are to be
taken to compensate shareholders has not
been stated. Possibly a rise in tin prices
due to the curtailing of supplies will make
up deficiencies, but it remains to be seen
whether restriction can offset the activities
of the metal speculators who are blamed for
the whole trouble.
Two more Australian-controlled tin shows
in Malaya have joined in the curtailment
of production. These are Jelapang, a fairly
solid and consistent producer, and Larut
Tin Fields. The latter is an amalgamation
of three cos., and, with four dredges going,
is a solid contributor to the output. The
two shows recovered 329 tons of t.o. during
the last quarter of 1929. Both have Alluvial
Tin affiliations.
J. Howeson, of the Anglo-Oriental Mining
Corporation, and one of the leaders in the
movement to control tin-production with a
view to stabilising prices, declared that the
association’s aim was to control 120,000
tons of tin, or more than two-thirds of the
world’s output. The smelters in Britain
and Malaya will handle all that less 10 p.c.
to be retained in the form of ore. It is
thus hoped that the producer will be able
to get £225 a ton for his tin instead of the
£IBO-odd he is getting now, and that will
mean a profit of approximately a million-
and a-half for the industry. The cost of
financing the ore kept off the market is
estimated at £3 per ton. The number of
producing cos. now in the association is
150, and additional recruits are expected.
There can be little doubt that the more
important Australian concerns which have
not already joined up will do so. The dis-
tance from headquarters is so great, however,
that adjustments will not be carried out in
a few days. Those in charge at the Aus-
tralian end have matters well in hand, and
a definite statement of the position there
and in Malaya may be expected within the
next month or two. The attempt to stabilise
copper prices failed because there were far
too many independent producers all over the
world, and also because the combination
was too greedy. The Tin Producers’ Associa-
tion has roped in most of the big pro-
ducers, about the only people standing out
being the Chinese seratchers and the Dutch
East Indies section.
“W.1.U.”: The “reasonably attributable to
the industry” clause in the lately-amended
law relating to compensation for workmen
at Broken Hill gives the mining cos. some
hope of being able to reduce their very heavy
compensation bills. The Zinc Corp. has been
the first to make a move in the provision
of modern hygienic equipment, as described
in last week’s “Wild Cat” Column. Organ-
ised Labor is joking about the various inno-
vations, but it also sees that the sick man
will have to prove that his condition is “rea-
sonably attributable to the industry,” which
would have been a difficult matter with some
of those now on compensation. Inevitably
the next Labor conference will have to con-
sider a motion “That it be an instruction
to the Labor Government immediately it is
returned to delete the ‘reasonably attribut-
able’ clause wherever it appears.”
It is a shameful thing to have to admit,
but there are union leaders in Broken Hill
who would rather have unhygienic mines
than be deprived of an excuse for cursing
the “capitalist class.”
* * * *
Placer Development, the Canadian-regis-
tered dollar co. which has its control in
Sydney, has formed another dollar co., Bulolo
Gold Dredging, Ltd., to work claims on the
Bulolo River acquired from Guinea Gold
some time ago. It is proposed to wdrk the
river beaches, using two dredges with buckets
of 10 c.f. capacity; these are expected
to turn over 3,000,000 c.y. per year. Recov-
erable values are estimated at 2s. Id. per
c.y., and the dirt available is put down at
a minimum of 40 million c.y. In view of
the inaccessibility of the mountain valley
where the claims are situated, dredges and
equipment are to be sectionalised so that
no part shall weigh more than 70001 b. The
dredges are to be transported by aeroplane,
New Guinea Airways, an offshoot of Guinea
Gold, undertaking to supply specially con-
structed ’planes. They will be needed, for
though the weights to be lifted are not im-
possible, the ungainly sections will take a
lot of stowing.
The financing of this proposition made
out in sterling calls for £823,044 in 800,000
shares of five dollars each. Of this lot
476,000 worth £489,712 are to be offered
for subscription. Placer gets 224,000 f.p.’s
as vendor, and 100,000 will be held in re-
serve, making issued capital £720,164. Of
the. contribs. issue, £124,486 goes to Placer,
which pays £50,000 therefrom to Guinea
Gold, and various commissions in connec-
tion with underwriting. Of the f.p. shares
allotted to Placer as vendor, 70,000 go to
Guinea Gold.
The gross yearly return is estimated at
£350.000, and the net at £245,000. On the
issued capital a 10 per cent, dividend is
expected on the first year’s working, and
28 p.c. for the next 11 years. Shareholders
in Placer Development are to have the
option of taking up 210,000 of the 476,000
contribs. offered for subscription at par in
the proportion of three in the new to every
one held in the old. The law of British
Columbia permits share issues only on a
fully-detailed prospectus. This should be
available to Placer shareholders by the
middle of February, when applications can
be made.
It is interesting to note that the Placer
directorate admits what the “Wild Cat” con-
tended two years ago, that the job of con-
structing and maintaining a wheeled-traffic
road along the New Guinea mountain sidings
is too costly to be practicable.
* * * *
From London: J. A. Agnew has become
chairman of Lake View and Star (W.A.),
which seems to indicate that the Consoli-
dated Goldfields of South Africa, Ltd., of
which Agnew is managing director, has
got control. Agnew, a Maorilander, has
gone far in the mining world since he went
to Westralia as a young man in the middle
’nineties. His first job there was as Hoover’s
underground boss on the Sons of Gwalia.
Afterwards he joined Hoover in Korea, and
when Hoover became a partner in Bewick,
Moreing and Co., Agnew was sent back to
Westralia as a mine superintendent, and
ultimately became its general manager there.
When Hoover broke away from B., M. and
Co. Agnew followed suit, and, proceeding
to London, took over several directorships
of Westralian and other mining cos. vacated
by Hoover. Later, he became managing-
director of the Consolidated Goldfields Co.,
and a year or so ago joined the Lake View
board as its representative. Agnew is one
of the most capable, influential and unassum-
ing mining men in the world to-day.
$ * * *
C. H. Wray, representing J. A. Agnew
and, it is said, President Hoover, has been
granted a big prospecting area on Lake
Austin, Murchison goldfield (W.A.). If
boring results are sufficiently encouraging-
dredging will follow. A lot of gold has been
won from the “island” on Lake Austin and
from the “mainland” near by. Wray was
B ; , M. and co.’s chief scout and sampler in the
West for several years, and long ago was
impressed with the prospect of finding con-
siderable wealth at depth on Lake Austin.
Sluicing on a small scale was attempted by
two prospectors in 1927, but, according to
Mines Department files, they gave up “as
gold was not found in payable quantities.”
* * * *
London controlled Star Explorations, Ltd.,
which first owned a tailings dump at Kal-
goorlie and now holds other assets there and
elsewhere, recently declared a seven and a
half per cent. div. and told shareholders that
only for the uncertain economic conditions
it would distribute more. Interests acquired
by the co. during the past year include shares
in the new Golden Horseshoe and wads of
stock in a Malayan tin venture and a London
brickmaking concern. Its principal holding
is in Lake View and Star.
* * * *
Lake View and Star (W.A.) has been in
luck’s way lately. First a big alluvial for-
mation worth about an ounce was struck at
60ft. from the surface, and then a rich body
of telluride, worth in places up to £150 a
ton, was met at the No. 3 level at a point
not far from where in the boom days H. C.
Callahan dug ore yielding a ton of gold a
month for six months. Shares have stiffened
a few shillings; but at present there isn’t
much innards to the market.
* * * *
Rawang Tin, Serendah Tin and Serendah
South, all pups of the Alluvial Tin-Tanah
Biji concerns, have issued invitations to their
own funerals. That is to say that, having
been amalgamated some time ago into
Rawang Tin Fields, there will be a distri-
bution of assets as far as the three cos.
are concerned. It will be mostly by way of
striking a book balance, for all the shares
are soundly held, and the combine has been
showing satisfactory returns since it got to
business in March last year. Rawang itself
is a combined sluicing and dredging show,
and, though the sluicing expenses are high
compared with the dredging, has always
managed to make a decent show’. The
Serendahs were bored to go high values, but
so far the net- average return for the group
has been ,711b. for the last quarter of 1929.
The December recovery of 90 tons from
275,000 yards is a big improvement on ear-
lier work. The capital of the group is a
million in two million 10s. shares. Rawang
shareholders get four for one. The two Seren-
dahs are to take twelve 10s. paids for every
five £1 shares held. Shares are not quoted
in Australia, since the registration is Malay-
an. They should stand at a slight premium,
on past performances.
4= * * *
“O.B.”: Roan Antelope, a new Northern
Rhodesian copper mine, appears to be some-
thing out of the ordinary. Ore reserves
over only 13 p.c. of the aggregate area of
the property are estimated at 75,000,000
short tons and deposits yet to be taken
into account in the other 87 per cent, of
the area are described as stupendous.
Dazzling reports of the mine’s future are
being circulated —of course by interested
parties—in London and New York.
4= 4= 4* 4=
From London: Someone from Sydney
“who has had great experience in catching
sharks and turning them to commercial pro-
fit” is trying hard to interest us in West-
ralian shark leather, also in turtles and
dugongs. Prospects are declared to be won-
derful. There is “an ample and eager de-
mand for all the shark leather that can
be got; shark fins are rushed at 4s. a lb.
in China, turtles are valuable for their shell
and flesh and dugongs are prized for their
skins and oil.” But the reception is cold.
As one London paper puts it, too many
similar ventures have “ended in nothing be-
fore they began.”
$ $ * $
From a well-known oil technician at
present working in Java: —
Prom The Bulletin (25/9/’29) I learn that some
Austialian cos. operating at Roma have “bottomed”
on granite and thrown in their job. I hope the
prospectors haven’t confused oil and alluvial gold
or tin. Where petroleum is concerned there really
is no “bottom.” All so-called rock bottoms have
been bored through and petroleum has been ob-
tained: good wells have been brought in under
granite, diorite and close-grained sands of over 50ft.
depth in each case.
In a Bulletin of a recent date I noted that
people were asking for capital for oil-drilling, and
stressing the proximity of coal measures. Person-
ally I should regard the close proximity of coal
seams as a definite stand-off signal.


Poverty
Point
“Citeriori": Written by Robert Mont-
gomery Bird 102 years ago, “A Man with-
out Money, or the News of a Night,” a full-
programme farce, was performed for the first
time on any stage at the Academic Theatre,
New York, on November 2, 1929. Great
encouragement here for aspiring playwrights !
“Seen. Ario”: The censor does not allow
the movie advertisements to say “A Woman
of Affairs” is from Michael Arleri’s “Green
Hat.” Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, after paying a
high price for the story, had to shelve it for
months because the Hollywood scenario
censor refused permission for it to be
screened. He finally agreed on condition that
the title was changed, the plot severely
operated upon, and the names of every
character altered—-evidently so that the pub-
lic should not know it was the naughty
“Green Hat.” He succeeded. Even Michael
Arlen wouldn’t know it.
“Goldilocks”: Geo. Marlow’s brush with
a billposter whom he caught posting bills on
the wall near his house and who pasted
George when he interfered reminds me of
the most colorful stage encounter I have seen.
The scenic artist was busy at liis job when
the actor-manager made some slighting refer-
ence to his work, to which the artist retorted
that the a.-m.’s acting was enough to keep
any audience away. They went on to dis-
cuss each other’s ancestry, until the actor
seized a brush from a pot of yellow paint
and swiped the artist in the face with it.
He retorted by hurling a mass of sky-blue
with the picturesque utensil in which stage-
paints are mixed. Quite a number of similar
pots with various colored paint in them
were at hand, and the air became thick with
flying brushes, pots, color and blasphemy.
Each contestant was a spectacle of varied
color when the fight was over, and the stage
looked as if a gang of futurist artists had
been doing some serious work.
“Bert the Carpenter”: Re the morals,
lack of morals, etc., of stage folk (B.
8/l/’30). In U.S.A. I had to sit up one
night at a railway station waiting for the
Limited, and began to yarn with the handy-
man of a small theatrical troupe which
was also awaiting the train. He told me
that a few weeks previously the show was
nearly broke. The boss called a conference,
a happy inspiration came to the leading-
lady, and next morning two of the co. were
rushed off to a minister with request to
be married at once. A few seconds
later up daslied a jilted lover with
a property revolver. He was fol-
lowed by the rest of the company,
and a row started which could be
heard all over the town. In the
presence of the entire population
a deputy collared the armed one,
and after a furious struggle re-
moved him. Then the wedding
took place—and satisfactory houses
followed. “There’s the girl,” he
added, “lying on the seat with her
head in that fat chap’s lap. Her
husband’s the fellow in the grey
suit sitting on the prop, basket
with that other girl.” “Have they
quarrelled already?” I asked. “Not
a bit,” he said. “They spent a few
nights together, so the hotel people
wouldn’t smell a rat, but at the
next town they went back to the
ones they usually live with.”
“L.”: Brisbane has had Austra-
lia’s first look at the stage version
of Anita Loos’s “Gentlemen Pre-
fer Blondes,” done by the Yvonne
Banvard co. at the Royal. It is
an amusing show, though a bit too
talky, and sticks far more closely
to the book than most dramatisa-
tions. The Brisbane presentation
is chiefly remarkable for Yvonne
Banvard’s performance as Lorelei.
With the aid of a blonde wig,
infjtnue dresses and a baby voice,
Yvonne gets away with it with
rare skill. Those who saw her only
as Lady Jane in “Rose Marie” or
leading in “The Zeppelin Terror”
and “The Barker” wouldn’t recog-
nise her.
“Dum Spiro”: Would like to
know why “C. Ma” (B. 8/l/’30)
classes Jack O’Hagan numbers in
“Turned Up” in the category of
“an Australian writing . imitations
of American imitations of negro
melodies for Australians to sing.”
Would “C. Ma” point out any
number with the faintest resem-
blance to a negro melody? If he
asks why O’Hagan doesn’t let his
Pegasus gallop in a more individual
manner, the answer is that music
houses here are very wary about
publishing anything that doesn’t
follow closely on the lines o/
American numbers. O’Hagan is
a prisoner of his public, but he is
not a prisoner of his own mind, as
is well proven in the score for the
musical comedy “Passion Flower,”
the book of which was written by
Alan Stranks and Stuart Bridg-
man, two Melbourne writers, and
which the Firm will shortly pro-
duce.
“Macann” : Another shot seemed
to get home in the battle of legit.
v. talkies and taxes in the “S. M.
Herald” the other morning. For
pretty well as long as I can re-
member the Firm has headed the
double-column amusements ads.
with a large-type splash on any-
thing from three to half a dozen
shows. On January 13 it re-
treated into single-column, with
only about five inches altogether
for “New Moon,” “Journey’s End” and “In
the Next Room.” On the same day Union
Theatres filled three page-length columns.
“Citeriori”: Comedian Malcolm Scott,
well remembered in Australia, has passed out
in England. A worry with him for a long
time was the suggestion thrown out by his
family (which included Admiral Percy)
that, he had nothing to do with them. An
illness of Dan Leno led to Scott taking
Dan’s place at London Palladium; and that
led to a 10-years’ West End engagement.
“Playfully,” relates Gus Garrick, a fellow-
performer, “Scott labelled my baby son ‘The
Bullet-headed Boy’; in later years he would
inquire about him under that designation;
and in course of time ‘The Bullet-headed
Boy’ went to his death in the Great War —-
shot through the head.”
“Shep”; While here there is a lot of
panic in legit, ranks, Maurice Brown, who
gambled to success by producing “Journey’s
End,” has just bought two West End
(Lond.) theatres, the Globe and the Queen's.
“Adam Ant”: Most playgoers will re-
member the bright little dancer Phyllis
Amery, who, with her sister Maudie, danced
in many a J.C.W. show. She married Eric
Edgely White, of Edgely and Dawe, and two
years back figured in the “Robinson Crusoe”
staged at the Melbourne Princess by that
firm. Edgely and Dawe, who worked their
way up from beach shows and the like, were
just about to stage their most ambitious
effort, “Love Lies,” when Phyllis died in
giving birth to a son. She was only 27.
“L.H.P.”: “Wilhal’s” reference (B.
8/l/’3O) to the great success of Boucicault’s
“After Dark” in U.S.A. recalls what a
moneymaker it was in Australia. Coppin,
Harwood and Dick Stewart (Nellie’s father)
engineered the first Sydney show in 1861)
at the old Prince of Wales Opera House,
where Sydney Royal is now. Boucy adap-
ted the piece from the French play of “Les
Oiseaux de Proie.” Another version, “Lon-
don After Dark,” figured at the Queen’s in
York-street. Rignold had a big show of it
at Her Majesty’s in 1800, and Bert Bailey
was a notable Dicey Morris in a Lyceum
revival in 1899. The same house saw the
Stanford Players in the last Sydney pro-
duction in 1904.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: The death of a Shell-
harbor (N.S.W.) identity who remembered
“playing circuses with the three Fitzgeralds
when they were boys” recalls some history.
The Fitzes were sons of a schoolmaster. One
of them became a printer and journalist, and
finished as John D. Fitzgerald, M.L.C. Tom
and Dan were the circus members of the
family. They started in the sawdust and
spangles business as mere youths, with an
ambition to add a menagerie to their show.
In a country town they discovered a publican
in puzzled possession of a caged lion, seized
from another circus for unpaid board. It
was a moth-eaten specimen of the king of
beasts, and Bung was relieved to get a fiver
for it. A special tent was put up for this
exhibit secured “regardless of expense” ; then
one night there was a row in the menagerie.
THE BLESSINGS OF BLOAT.
“The valuation of the bloated city of Sydney, which was £27,226,283 in 1916, has risen to £71,854,117,
having gone up another £10,768,078 during 1929. The increase means a rise of £100,000 in city rates
and taxes.”
INDIGNANT CITIZEN: “What! Sixpence a pound for spuds?”
THE BARROWMAN: No, sir. Twopence a pound for the spuds, and fourpence for getting
them to you."
A drunken woman, in fondling Leo, had
seized him by the whiskers, an indignity
that caused him to roar helplessly. The
woman was dragged away and ejected, but
shortly returned to Dan Fitzgerald. “Will
you let me in again if I promise not to
frighten yer lion?” she pleaded. She got in.
“Coppinski”: There is every reason why
the Firm should sell Melbourne Royal. It
could not take much more than £3OO per
night even with the most successful box-
office show. How much could a big em-
porium such as it would be converted into
take per day? The land is reported to be
worth about £3OOO per foot, and London
and New York have proved that theatre-
goers will go round a corner to a show if
it's a good one.
“Arram”: Melbourne-born Florrie Forde,
lately playing in “Cinderella” at Edinburgh
Royal, appeared with George Rignold here
in “The House That Jack Built.” She went
to Britain in 1897 and has remained there
ever since, mostly at the head of her own
shows, playing tours by arrangement with
theatre-owners. She still plays principal
boy.
“Hamfat” : W. Barrington Miller, back for
a short look at' Australia, formed his first
association with theatrical business when he
was running a tobacconist’s store at Gis-
borne (M.L.). For a box-office keeper in
a country town Miller did wonderful busi-
ness, so good that the Fullers induced him
to take a managerial job with one of their
shows. Later he was managing director for
J. D. Williams pictures, and now he is
doing well in England.
“L.H'.P.”: Jimmy Hazlitt, who has re-
tired from Sydney Majesty’s, first appeared
at Sydney Royal on July 8, 1882, as Swin-
don, the warder, in Rignold’s production of
“Youth.” As stage manager he was with
Rignold for nearly 20 years, also acting
Potiphar (“Joseph of Canaan”), Sebastian
(“The Tempest”), Banquo (“Macbeth”),
Seth Bede (“Adam Bede”), Arthur Kenyon
(“Called Back”), Westmoreland and Wil-
liams (“Henry V.”) and Lord Spencer
(“Clancarty”). He played Horatio to
George Miln’s. “Hamlet,” and scored as the
villainous Santerre to Signora Majeroni’s
Marie Antoinette and Drake io the same
lady's Queen Elizabeth. He largely helped
S'Gilbert Parker, then on “Sydney Morning
Herald,” in writing the new “Faust” play
for Rignold, who was dissatisfied with the
Charles Kean version. About 1912 Hazlitt
revived Parker’s version of “Faust” for the
Firm at Sydney Royal. With Williamsons
he acted and stage-managed for many years
before going to the front of the theatre to
be the most courteous and popular of house
managers.
“Flaming Youth”: The liardupncss of the
Sydney professional musicians is providing
N.S.W. country towns with an avalanche of
music. At least two flocks of “mukes” have
organised bands for country touring, and
have been rattling the collection-boxes on
tour. Most country towns possess bands of
their own, but the feeling towards the in-
truders has been friendly, as a rule. In
one place, however, the local bandsmen put
aside their daily jobs and started an oppo-
sition show, interlarded with passionate
appeals to the townsfolk to pass over
their spare threepences to the local band.
Incidentally, one band has returned to Syd-
ney with only a few of its members. I’he
rest, one by one, found jobs in country
towns.
“L.H.P.”: The screen, for all its mar-
vels, can’t, or anyway doesn’t, present shows
to compare with those of Sanger’s Amphi-
theatre, London, in the ’eighties. Pantos
there were wonderful. One, a mixture of
“Aladdin” and “The Forty Thieves,” had
a congress of Europe, Asia, Africa and
America, with the reps, of each attended
by a costly suite, mounted on the respec-
tive quadrupeds of its nation—bull, camel,
elephant and buffalo. Later, the audience
was introduced to Aladdin’s palace and wit-
nessed a magnificent bridal procession, a
gigantic stud of horses, ponies, elephants,
camels and zebras, and a grand Chinese
ballet of 80 girls.
“Cine Ma”: Australian film producers can
claim one feather in their cap. A screen
pantomime called “Nursery Rhymes” was
made in Sydney by A. Brandon Cremer,
with a century of kids to help him. With a
few rare exceptions like “Peter Pan,” Holly-
wood has made no attempt to cater for the
children with genuine juvenile fare —though
possibly it regards “The Cock-eyed World”
and such-like opuses as coming under this
category.
“Keel One”: The Australian Censor Board
is one of the big worries of American pro-
ducers, but Canada’s is a bigger one. During
the five months August to December, 130
“feature” pictures were rejected there. Since
the talkies arrived censorship has become a
serious problem. A cut in the old silent
films was easy; in a talkie it is sometimes
impossible and there has to be total rejection.
f “L.H.P.”; Australia’s old friend Frank
Harvey, who is supporting Matheson Lang
in “Jew Suss” at London Duke of York’s,
comes of theatrical stock. His father was
Jean de Latanac, and he called himself
Drank Harvey when he went on the Eng-
lish stage in 1866. He wrote sundry plays,
many of which, including “The Wages of
Sin,” were produced in Australia by Charles
Holloway. Latanac was a native of Stoven,
in the Channel Islands, and made his first
appearance on the Paris stage.
“Cine Ma”: What is announced as an
innovation is a theatre in New York which
is to be exclusively devoted to news gazettes,
the programmes to be changed from day to
day like editions of the dailies. I dropped
into such a theatre in the Boulevard des
Bons Nouvelles in Paris in 1920, and,
incidentally, described it for The Bulletin.
The countries; covered included all European
States except Bolshevik Russia, which was
not then in the picture. As an example of
the up-to-dateness of its sejrvice, I had just
come direct from Florence, and one
of the screenings was of a dispersal
of strikers I had witnessed in that
city a couple of days previously.
“Rob P.”: Immobility of the
ghost has again closed Brisbane
iCremorne. This time the unfortu-
nate mummers are Gayle Wyer’s
“Co-Optimists,” with the clever
character comedian Walter Cor-
nock as chief joke-cracker. The
vaudeville-ctm-revue bill failed to
reclaim the multitude from its
latest god, and, after a few arid
Fridays, the co. broke up in dis-
order. Wyer’s previous revue co.
had a remarkably successful run at
Fullers’ Empire (Brisbane) some
years ago, which no doubt accounts
for his optimism in leasing Cre-
morne for three years. The theatre
has thudded dismally with many
promising shows since 1923.
“Macann”: The Pollard Lilli-
putians, known over Australia and
the Shaky Isles some years ago,
has evolved into the Chester-Pol-
lard Amusement Co., New Yoik.
The Chester part of it are three
Melbourne chaps, who got into
U.S.A. in 1915. They manufac-
ture automatic games—football,
golf, horse-racing and so on—built
on a large scale and partly played
by the ones who drop in the coin.
E. J. Pollard, an uncle, is making
the games in Melbourne for Austra-
lian distribution.
“Bardie”: Melbourne Royal,
which the Firm threatens to sell,
was opened on July 16, 1555, under
the management of John Black,
who had made a pile as a carrier
to the diggings. The opening bill
was “School for Scandal,” with
comedian G. H. Rogers as Sir
Peter Teazle and Mrs. Charles
Poole as Lady Teazle. Mrs. Poole
also spoke a prologue. Then fol-
lowed a dance by Madame Stre-
binger, and the show concluded with
a farce, “The Actress of All Work,”
in which Anna Maria Quinn sus-
tained six characters. There was
a note on the programme: “Car-
riages : Horses’ heads to be turned
towards Russell-street.”
“F.”: The old-fashioned musical
comedy in which a romantic story
is embellished with pleasant har-
mony and attractive hoisery, is as
dead as the dodo. Most recent
exhibits have been mere farcical
comedies providing boundless oppor-
tunities for a couple of leading
buffoons to indulge in physical and
verbal fisticuffs, while the heroine,
if there is a heroine, languishes
through a jazz number or two and
shakes her more or less athletic
extremities. “Turned Up” at Mel-
bourne Royal is in this category.
Anything melodious, romantic or
even graceful would appear in it
as an unpardonable intrusion, and
while the modern theatregoer may
welcome the change, old hands
sigh for the days of “The Maid of
the Mountains” and “The Merry
Widow.”


Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner a
la carte from 1/6. Inclusive tariff from 13/6
per day, or £4/4/- weekly. Special quotations for
sporting bodies, etc. Situated right opposite Spencer
Street- Station ; no taxi fares; railway porter carries
baggage across if necessary. Please write for
detailed tariff card. Oarlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is
sufficient address.
s
Why be satisfied with less?
SHARE in the benefits that P. & C. Assurance brings ! When times
are hazardous the company keeps policies in force ; a definite
sum is set aside each year for loan purposes. P. &C. policies
are planned to meet the special needs of the man on the land—these
are the things that have resulted from the co-operative basis of the
P. &C. The further fact that the company is linked with the most
influential co-operative bodies in the Commonwealth is yet another
factor in the stability of the company. When such advantages can
be obtained at no extra cost, why be satisfied with less ?
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C, Man. Director: H. Fell
PRODUCERS & CITIZEN S
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD,.
221-225 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY. _j|
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic !*isk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etr.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The New Moon’’
Criterion “Journey’s End”
Palace “The Enemy”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Turned Up”
New Comedy “The Land of Promise”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
Just now at Sydney Palace
“The Enemy” is loose,
And Mistress Starr, quite callous,
Is cooking of his goose;
Is broiling him for Tallis,
And wading in the juice.
’Fourteen in gay Vienna
(See footnote in the prog.) ;
The Archduke’s ribs dyed henna—
“Ach ! Vengeance on the rogue !”....
It’s safe to- bet your tenner
That Mars comes next in vogue.
And now the old professor—
The sterling pacifist—
And his dear daughter, bless her,
With fears of which the gist
Is that, no more to press her,
Her lover must enlist.
Then (sobs!) oh how they suffer!
(Trust Mistress Starr to tell!)
It looks (and sounds) much tougher
Than even Milton’s Hell:
And all the time—to bluff her—
The prof, talks loud and well;
What time, in terror stalking,
Whilst profiteers rejoice,
The poor man must go hawking
His paintings out, sans choice
(And still he keeps on talking—
He seems to love his voice).
Till falls the curtain slowly
On players, play and props.;
And Mars at last is wholly
And nobly drowned in slops;
And (tinkle sweet and lowly)
The playwright’s moral drops:
“‘The Enemy’ (the blighter!)
His other name is Hate:
MURIEL STARR, populating Sydney Palace with patrons and
Peace.
He girdeth up the fighter.
And sends him to his Fate,
And eke provides the skiter
With whoppers to relate.”
(And boreth the first-nighter,
It grieveth one to state.)
Sydney’s big show of the week, this year’s
Archibald Prize winner—K.C. and ex-Premier
Holman, by John Longstaff—is a very good
painting, but about as much like Holman as a
strawberry ice-cream soda. On what grounds,
then, does it collect the prize? If likeness
does not matter in a portrait, what on earth
does? Rank flattery might count with a
sitter, but should it with an accredited body
of selectors? People who do the judging in
such things no doubt shouldn’t give reasons,
but there is a grievous suspicion here that
they couldn’t if they wanted to.
Longstaff is not alone in this respect. There
are aged and bibulous-looking gentlemen of
present Showman’s acquaintance got up in
pink masks and abundant hair, triumphantly
keeping that schoolboy complexion, wliat-
time the poor fish that toadied to' them must
surely have had to go out and salve then-
consciences in loathsome hops. Art for
Mart’s sake! _ There is scarcely a vestige of
honest criticism in the show. It is one
form of art that can be —needs to be—
intense with drama, and it is as frothy as
a yard of tulle. Unquestionably the Long-
staff painting is a delight to look at. It lias
depth, rich tone, nicely subdued feeling. Only
the cove out in front who knows Holman gets
the jar. Compare it as portraiture with
t olin Colahan’s view of violinist Tarezynski
and it is a charming decoration and nothing
else. A trouble with the Colahan piece is
that the background declines to stay back.
Background, in fact, is the .show’s most
arresting absentee. Most of them have stuck
up a figure something like somebody or
other and hung behind it a mass of easy
nothingness. That is where Norman Carter’s
view of S’Thomas ’Enley falls down. The
face is a fine bit of moulding; hands care-
fully done; likeness excellent; posing very
good indeed. It is as much like Henley as the
winner is unlike its sitter. But it is a
surface job, with little of the paint mastery
of the other. One of the few to manage
background is E. Buckmaster in his self-
portrait, quite a notable piece. W. B.
Mclnnes has half a dozen entries, none to be
compared with his work of a year or so ago.
His painting of Frank Tate is good por-
traiture, but as a dramatic spectacle it falls
fathoms below his full-length view of the
same gentleman which held a leading place
in the line last year.
The show altogether is not up to last
year’s. Even the comic section, though it
holds some priceless stuff, has drooped. The
price of canvas has probably risen a bit.
May it continue to do so! Finally, in this
observer’s opinion, Longstaff’s painting, as a
painting, has no peer in the show. Any man
with an honest modicum of vanity would be
glad to pass it off as a portrait of himself —
and probably could
do so.
& V
The Bulletin’s
Melbourne office
flapper writes :
Well, my dear, I
went to the
Comedy on Satur-
day to see “The
Land of Promise”
and 1 took a young
man and believe
me he was the most
innocent tlieatre-
goer God ever
made. Of course,
you know the play.
It is by Somerset
Maugham and it is
all about a lady
help (Mary Mac-
Gregor) who looks
after an elderly
spinster and when
she dies gets acci-
dentally left out of
the will. So she
goes and joins her
brother who has
married a waitress
who is beneath him
on a Canadian
farm. And of
course the two
women absolutely
refuse to click. And
so her brother feels
obliged to preserve
his domestic hap-
piness and turn
Miss MacGregor
out in the snow if
she won’t knuckle
under to his wife.
So then Leon Gor-
don who is a
rough, rude, hired
man with coarse
ideas about Sex
and an extremely dirty shirt turns up,
and just to spite the other girl, Miss
MacGregor marries him on the spot and he
takes her to a cabin in the wilderness. Well,
it seems that Miss MacGregor thinks mar-
riage is only a matter of washing up the
dishes, mending her husband's socks and
tidying up the house; but Mr. Gordon
regards it as something more than that. So
there is a terrible first night in the lonely
cabin with nobody to hear Miss MacGregor’s
screams for help. Well, Miss MacGregor
puts up a splendid fight for her ideals, but
you know what Mr. Gordon is—l mean
what he is on the stage. So in the next
act Miss MacGregor is quite reconciled
because Mr. Gordon is really quite nice. So
when Miss MacGregor gets an offer to go
back to England and ladyhelp again, natu-
rally she declines.
Well, to say that my friend was staggered
is only a misuse of words. My dear, as the
evening wore on lie got more and more con-
fused, "until he simply couldn’t keep his feel-
ings to himself. “Why does he walk as if he
was wearing diver’s
boots?” he asked.
I explained that
Mr. Gordon always
walked like that.
“Does he walk like
that when he is in
Collins-street ?” he
asked, and I said.
“No, of course not.”
So he said, “Why
does he do it on the
stage?” So I told
him he musn’t talk
so much because
people were begin-
ning to look round.
So he kept quiet
for a while but pre-
sently he asked,
“Why does he
speak as if he had
a mouthful of
cherry- stones?”
“He always talks
like that,” I ex-
plained. “Does he
talk like that in
private?” he asked.
Well, I know Mr.
Gordon, so I was
able to reassure
him on that point.
“Then why does he
do it on the stage?”
he iflquired; and
an ■ elderly woman
next to him who
was sitting quite
absorbed said she
would report him
to the management
if he didn’t hold
his tongue.
Well, my friend
sat quiet after that,
but I could see
that he was getting
more and more
confused and more and more surprised.
Until just when the plot was getting really
thrilling and the whole house was sitting
with bated breath he burst out quite loudly,
“But Life isn’t like that!”
Well, I felt things were going too far and
so I whispered that we had better disperse
into the foyer and I would explain all. Well,
after we had tiptoed outside and I had talked
to him quietly for a bit, everything became
quite clear.
It seems he belongs to one of the De-
pressed Trades, I mean, he is a Realistic
Painter, and what with the Rising Tide of
Prices he hadn’t been to a theatre since he
was a boy and used to be taken to see Mr.
Wilkie in Shakspeare when he was at school.
So his ideas about the theatre were hope-
lessly out of date—l mean, he imagined that
the Stage was supposed to be like Life!
¥ * *
Gregan McMahon’s presentation of Percy
Robinson’s dramatic tragedy, “To What
Red Hell,” at Melbourne Bijou, will be
intercepted and questioned in these columns
next week, as will the further Frithian folly
at Sydney Opera House. Meanwhile, it
can be said that Frith is in fine fettle.
* * *
Sydney’s-latest amateur theatre, the Com-
munity Playhouse, is situated beneath an
Anglican church hall in Darlingliurst. The
place is low-roofed . and concrete-floored,
about as long as a cricket-pitcli and no
wider than an average hop, step and jump
merchant’s effort. Yet it has been converted
into a comfortable “art” theatre. The
night this Showman paid his first visit,
after stumbling in error among the brethren
of a lodge meeting on the floor aboye and
being in imminent danger of initiation into
the fold, Tchekhov’s “The Seagull” was the
bill. Youth loves youth and middle-age
loves middle-age; the former represented by
Constantine, a rebellious young dramatist.
and sweetheart Nina, naive and charming,
and the older generation by Madame
Areadina, Constantine’s mother, an insincere
and vain actress, and Trigorin, a weak-willed
and spoiled novelist. There are other charac-
ters, finely drawn, but only incidental to the
plot. There is also a dead seagull, the
play’s chief “prop,” which serves as a
symbol for the young lovers’ dreams. An
undercurrent of tragedy is there from the
commencement/ but the mischief doesn’t be-
gin until the meeting of Nina, a hopeless
young hero-worshipper, and Trigorin, ever
ready to act the seducer. Trigorin soon
tires of his easy conquest, casts her aside
and flies back to his old love. Meanwhile
Constantine, tortured with memories of Nina,
fails to kill himself and then wins fair fame
as a writer. Nina comes bbck and has an
interview with Constantine. He wants her
to renew the old friendship, but she declines,
still having a hankering for the man who
let her down, whereupon Constantine pulls
the trigger a second time with perfect re-
sults. Except for lighting defects, the stage
mishaps which seem inseparable from Syd-
ney amateur productions (cramped stage
space was mainly the reason here), and some
DULCIE CHERRY, with Leon Gordon at Melbourne Comedy.
faltering in the last act, the production was
commendable. Adeline Tudehope was a
convincing Nina, and Cliff Peir brought dis-
tinct talent to the job of being her young
suitor. Clive Coppard, Terese Desmond,
Frank Carswell, Peter Dobbyns and Carrie
Tennant gave fine support.
Gloria Swanson’s excellent talkie work in
“The Trespasser” at Sydney St. James has
drawn a rich harvest and looks like going
on. The picture will be examined in Shadow
Shows. There is good “short” support, includ-
ing a cartoon comic better even than the
usual thing of the kind. Another interesting
item is down for early presentation—Fair-
banks and Mary Pickford in “The Taming
of the Shrew.” It is queer how little Shak-
spook has been exploited by the film makers.
A 1 Jolson and Clara Bow in “Hamlet” would
probably give the legit? the final knockout.
The- State has “The Return of Sherlock
Holmes” and its natural corollary “The Fall
of Eve.” At the Ilaymarket the ticklesome
Harold Lloyd effort continues to prove itself
worthy of a long-run house, and so docs
Maurice Chevalier’s amorous “Love Parade”
at the Prince Edward. The Capitol has the
color-movie “On with the Show” and Cry-
stal Palace “Desert Song.” The Lyceum is
closed for a little face-lifting.
# * *
Sydney Turret, settled down to business
again after its bust-up of a month or so
ago, will give Australia its first look at
“The Balcony,” by Naomi Royde-Smith, on
February 6. Items in the offing include “Les
Vignes du Seigneur” in French. On February
12 the Turreters will cross the harbor to play
“The Cradle Song” for one night at the
Savoy, with the avowed purpose of “clearing
off the outstanding deficit.” It seems a good
reason for putting on a cloister play.
* * *
Add to the victims of high theatrical
finance the theatregoer. He has suffered
much. Prices of seats not conspicuous for
their comfort in playhouses not remarkable
for their convenience and ventilation have
steadily risen until the amusement seeker’s
two and a quarter hours of possible enter-
tainment, plus sixpence for an advertising
brochure called a programme and a bob to
the cloak-room Cerberus, knocks the best
part out of a quid. The quality of the
plays he has been invited to inspect has
not noticeably improved, and the acting has
very noticeably gone off. In addition, he has
been the subject of sundry experiments in
economy, such as the substitution of a
gramophone for the orchestra at Melbourne
Royal.


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers’
Compensation* Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
WHAT DOES SPENDING COST?
How much does it cost you to spend £100? The answer is
£l 00 down and at least £4 per annum for the rest of your life.
Yet what man would knowingly spend £lOO that put him
under obligation to pay £4 per year for life.
None, perhaps, but many do it unconsciously when they spend
money that might otherwise have earned interest at 4 per
cent, indefinitely.
Every pound you spend has attached to it an invisible string
of pennies which you spend with it.
Keep your money in a Savings Account and earn, not spend,
4 per cent, interest per annum.
€)mmonwcaltb Savings Bank of Hustralla
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
5.2 Macleay St
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT, SYDNEY
(Located within the City Boundary, ten
minutes ]rom G.P.0.)
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 160 rooms, is now open, and
features Single Rooms, Double
Rooms with Bath, and two-, three-
and four-room Suites with Bath.
Central Heating, Hot and Cold
Water, ’Phone and Bedside Lamp
in each room. Unsurpassed
Harbor views.
Telephone: F 2161 (8 lines).
Telegraphic Address: Fifmac,
Sydney.
A BORIGIN
ALITIES
“Bill Bowyang”: Old Dawson was the
meanest man I ever worked for, so when 1
met Charlie, the abo. who took my place, I
ANYTHING FOR THE SAKE OF PEACE.
“Phew! It’s damned hot, Missus.”
“I beg your pardon, Sir?”
“I—I said it’s hot, Missus.”
asked him how he was getting on. Oh, he
a good boss,” said Charlie. “Las’ year I
been borrow ten bob from him an’ he never
been ask me for it. When I get my pay
I give him a few bob what he been call
interest an’ he been tell me not to worry
about the ten bob, what he say ispincipal.
Bv cripes, he good boss all right.
* * * *
“Samuel”: “Gregor” is wrong in stating
(B. l/l/’3O) that two-up was first played
by the Romans in the _ first century
a.d. Historical records disclose tliat it
was known among the Egyptians as
far back as 4000 8.C., and a double-
headed coin was taken from Tutankhamen s
tomb. The game was one of the favorite
diversions of Belshazzar’s court the kip
used being the shinbone of a Mede. Al so
Froissart mentions that Harolds soldiers
played “the fairest game on earth the night
before the battle of Hastings, and Robbo-
patapete, the Aztec historian, relates that
Montezuma, of Mexico, was betting heads
a dollar” when the approach of Cortez s
army was announced to him. His famous
reply was: “We have plenty of time
the game, and beat the Spaniards too.
* * * *
“Kappa”: The indigenous quinine-plant of
North Australia (B. 8/l/’3O) is Alstonia,
which owes its bitter taste and febrifuge
action to the alkaloid alstonine. Infusions
made from its leaves are of value in the
treatment of malaria, and the natives use
leaf-poultices for ulcers and suppurating
sores, the plant’s curative value in this direc-
tion being due to the bacteriacidal effect of
the alkaloid. At one time several compounds
of alstonine were prescribed in England and
Australia, but they have gone out of favor;
the stuff could not even be found in the
average pharmacy. Some years ago there
was a brief demand for the leaves by English
brewers, who considered that they imparted
the requisite bitter taste to beer without
injuring the brew.
!]: * * *
“Moe 1 ’: The roster of quaint pub names
in old N. S. Wales seems practically inex-
haustible. Who now remembers The Case
Is Altered, which flourished at Braidwood
in the ’sixties ; or the Virtue Rewarded, which
at one time helped to quench the thirst of the
folk of Forbes? And what poetic soul
named the Bales in the Mud at Parramatta?
❖ * %
“Wandi”: We were talking one _ night
about the feathered giants of Australia. It
seemed a simple thing to name the 12
largest birds in their proper order, and
half a dozen guessers started off in this
way: Emu, cassowary, brolga, jabiru, peli-
can and black swan. Correct as to the
first two, of course, but reference to actual
measurements showed that the brolga is
sixth and the jabiru seventh on the list. The
pelican’s long bill places him third, with a
length of 60m. fr °m tip to tip. The plain
turkey is fourth, with 48m., and fifth place
is shared by the wandering albatross and
the royal albatross with 44m. each Ths
black swan is eighth with 40m., then come
the wedge-tailed eagle (38in.), Australian
darter (36in.), and the black shag (30m.).
The black shag is generally credited with
being the biggest of the cormorants; and so
he is, except in length, his big body and wings
HE HADN’T NOTICED IT EITHER.
BACHELOR FRIEND: “Y’ know, Smith, I’d give anything for the peace and happiness
of married life.”
SMITH (much married ): "So would I, old man so would I!"
misleading the observer. ' The magpie goose,
35in wins the goose stakes, beating the
Cape Barren goose by an inch ; while the
musk duck, 30in., leads the duck tribe.
* * * *
“Fitz”: A six-pound perch was caught not
long since in Dingo Creek, near Wmgham
(North Coast, N.S.W.). In the tributaries
of the Manning, near its head waters, very
little fishing is done, and in some of the
deep, dark pools fish grow to enormous
sizes. There is nothing else for them to
do—unless it is to eat one another.
* * * *
“Toggle”: When the shade temperature
was 108 deg. I took the thermometer out
into the sun. It leapt to 130 and then
retired from business. Our W.Q. sun is hot
all right, but it is not as deadly as it is
painted. At Colombo I have seen steerage
passengers, waiting to go on shore, hit the
deck like pole-axed cattle; and harvest time,
®7 en in „p^ e rfdlv y produces' a sunstroke l or
bfTHn/thfh’enflw SeifS hIS
d r b ”X ike os -
„rr. , . T tvqvpllino- hv car near
w- T ilkM Vvipl shortlv after midnight
Wmchelsea ( .) y , ,
recently; a “ t a ‘ n . e at
J?j£A pi
sprang up a haze so thick that the head-
lights could not pierce it for more than three
or four yards. It wasn’t mist, for the stars
were shining; it didn’t lift like a fog; it
wasn’t wafted away by a breeze (there was
no breeze) It vanished as suddenly as it
had come Explain it, brethren of the council,
if vou can
* * * *
“Imbaga” : One of the weirdest aspects of
Papua is the tendency of white inhabitants
to people it with strange animals and
stranger peoples. Captain Bennett started
it in the 1870’s by describing a journey
during which a buffalo he shot was carried
off by an immense eagle. Monckton’s web-
footed swamp-dwellers followed. When that
energetic young man discovered the spoor
of a large pig on the slopes of Mt. Albert
Edward he had dreams of a rhinoceros,
unmindful of the fact that the rhino's feet
are not cloven. The latest discovery is a
strange beast 18 inches long, with spikes
and black hair and a tube-like snout or
beak. The description of an echidna —of
which Papua possesses a special variety as
well as the familiar Australian beast —is so
exact that one wonders what all the fuss is
about.
$ * * *
“Bad Australian”: For persistence in an
apparently hopeless quest the bush bee is
hard to beat. When the hollow tree in which
the house was built has been felled, homing
insects will revolve round the spot like an
animated whirlwind, and even when the hive
is only a few feet below them they do not
appear to be aware of the fact. I have seen
them thus circulating for hours. In some
cases they eventually succeed in locating
their rifled storehouse. Days after the fell-
ing I have found them working at the old
address as if nothing had happened to dis-
turb them.
* * * *
“Toggle”: When a J.P. in the N.T. I
sat on several cases where cannibalism was
admitted. In one instance the meal was an
abo. escapee from Darwin gaol—a Roper
River boy who on his way home had to pass
through the country of unfriendly tribes.
Near Pine Creek he was set on by local
blacks, butchered and eaten. One boy in
giving evidence mentioned disgustedly that
the rarest titbit of all was uneatable. “Him
too much smoke opium,” he boomed. “Caul
fat too yellow.”
* * * *
“Hayband”: I once saw a snake on a
peculiar ledge about 20ft. down a well at
Kondinin (W.A.) ; how it got there Heaven
knows. I dropped a heavy stone, but
it flung its head to one side. I next tried
to hit it amidships. A rapid move of the
muscular, gleaming fold, and that stone, too,
bounced harmlessly off the shelf. Down wTsnt
another lump of rock, and another, to be
dodged each time by a shift of the wicked-
looking head. It was like throwing stones
at forked lightning. So I ceased to play fair,
and got a flat, heavy piece of metal. There
wasn’t room on the ledge to dodge it, and
the wriggler was smashed and pinned at last.
We got him up in a bucket.
(Continued on page 21.)
FIFTY YEARS AGO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The tracks were long when I was ten
And trudging miles to school
By winding streams and marsh and fen,
And many a mystic pool;
When scrubs were deep and forests wide,
And blacks roamed to and fro,
And on the roads crept dray and slide —
Back fifty years ago.
The dogleg fence cut off the bight,
The bark-roofed hut was new,
Where ’possums gambolled through the night
And scrambled down the flue;
And in the bush from dawn to dark
With mallet, axe and throw,
The shingle-splitters made their mark
Back fifty years ago.
No prophet dreamed of motors then,
Of bikes nor telephones,
Of things to change the ways of men
Ere we should make old bones.
The horse-and-buggy was our pride,
And great was “Cobb and C 0.,”
O’er cattle-runs all wild and wide
Back fifty years ago.
The bush was good to those who knew,
Though oft their ways were wrong,
And sweet with fruit and honey dew,
With avian chirp and song,
Ere axe and firestick wantonly
Laid scrub and forest low
Where clanged the weird corroboree
Of fifty years ago.
Though often hard and rudely spent
And keyed to bullock-drays,
Sweet-savored times of good content
Were those old vanished days;
And for the spoil of bush and shack
That none again can know,
I’d turn the hand of old Time back
To fifty years ago.
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


The hammer-like blows of a rough
corrugated road mean nothing
to you when your car is Perdriau
shod. The tough, yet pliable
rubber of the Perdriau Triangle
Tread, rides over it without hurt.
Mile after mile Perdriau gives
unfaltering service, despite the
worst road conditions. The big
triangle tread, with its gripping
design, bites deep into the
road and scorns the worst surface.
For longer mileage, better
service, safer transport, fit
Perdriaus.
V. -r
&
* v »
» to
/i
t
/
►
6
>2
v>.*
0
37.
*
»
Obtainable from
your Garage and
Tyre Dealer
V*
r room tmmsm rmm
CP.B.
DUNLOP-PERDRIAU RUBBER CO., LTD.-
-Branches and Depots in all States.


Positive Relief for
RUPTURJE/
*
©
With its patent
water pad, Den-
yer’s Elastic
Truss gives
every freedom
at work or sport, is always
comfortable and provides
the ideal Rupture support. Trusses
also made to individual requirements.
Single 30/
Double 40/
Write for FREE
Rupture Pamphlet.
DENYER BROS.,
Dept. 1, 267 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Consistent' in Excellence Since 15/5
Old
Very
HOLLAN D
GIN
a*
m
mi.
-"I
%//
. Ai 4
SE
sr.«
r
Me.
A SK fos Hols Very Old Holland
“ Gin in the STONE Bottle,
or Bols Silver Cap Dry Gin in
the Square Glass Bottle with
the Green Label.
jr
Weight
and
Quality
are factors in the
value of the stock. But purchasers’ business is to
Duy as cheaply as possible. Winchcombe Carson s
business as salesmen is to see that their clients get
full value. And in that regard they are consistently
successful. Their energy, knowledge and determina-
tion in making sales are a complete safeguard for
owners’ interests.
CONSIGN CATTLE, SHEEP, LAMBS, TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Homebush Yards,
Sydney,
Enoggera Yards,
Brisbane.
“Wang”: In our Vic. township a team
of bullocks drawing a load of wool was
being driven along the main street, the
driver directing his charges from the foot-
path. The leaders veered in towards the
off-side gutter. “Gee off, Baldy, gee off!”
the bullocky roared ; but they continued on
their erratic way. The conductor strove to
do justice to the situation in ill-choseu
words. “Didn’t yer hear me tell yer t’ gee
orf?” he shouted. “Blarst yer, what’s up
with yer? Want me t’ get yez earphones?”
# & * ❖
“Copabella”: Between seedtime and har-
vest and harvest and seedtime share-farmers’
sons up our way, having no incentive to
THE SECOND TIME ROUND.
“What time larsht tram go?”
“It’s gone.”
“Thank you, ofisher — I’ll wait for the shecond-larsht!”
improve the holding, used to go kangaroo-
ing or rabbiting or felling bee trees. We had
long coveted a “sugar-bag,” evidently rich,
for comb oozed from a gorged spout and
actually dripped from an overhanging limb,
in a roadside paddock, opposite the home
of Barcoo Hspkins, a small squatter. The
tree was too close to the house to be either
climbed in daylight or sawn down in the dark ;
there was nothing to do but wait personally
on Barcoo for permission to rob, and to
make what terms we could for the “bag.”
Barcoo drove a hard bargain, but we at
last secured a right to all honey we could
extract, save a kero-tin full for Barcoo, on,
condition that we cut up the tree-head into
cartable lengths of firewood and cross-sawed
the barrel in fence-post lengths ready for
splitting. The tree was a _ cast-iron, dead
white box, quite a furlong high and an acre
in area stump-high. It took four of us a
TAKING HIM ON.
BOOKIE: “I’ll be a sport, Midnight, and give you seven to one.”
MIDNIGHT: “Aw right! You gibbit schillin’ an’ this pfeller have plurry bobs worth.
day merely to ground the giant. And all the
honey it held was the ooze just visible with
a binocular from the ground; the nest, a
huge one, had been abandoned years before.
Barcoo sat on a log and day by day watched
us fulfil our side of the bargain. He did not
fail to tell us that everyone in the district
except the four mugs before him had known
“the strong o’ that tree.”
•:*
“Barangkali”: Post-mortems at Taronga
Park Zoo have disclosed that Sydney sharks
display a discriminating taste in the selec-
tion of their menu.
One 14ft. specimen
of tiger was found
to contain a rusty
kerosene-tin, a chaff
bag and a large
bundle of fowl
feathers. A second
tiger added a shag
and a stone weigh-
ing two pounds to
the collection, and
a whaler disgorged
the fore part of a
small blue-pointer.
Sharks have fewer
opportunities in the
part of the
Indian Ocean
where I was exiled
for some time. I
conducted hun-
dreds of examina-
tions of defunct
sharks caught
there, and the only
time I found any-
thing of note was
when I investi-
gated the stomach
of a 15ft. hammer-
head and was re-
warded with a silk
stocking. Such a
discovery near
Sydney would pass
without comment,
but at Cocos a silk
stocking was a
thing to conjure up in the imagination, and
even the bedraggled specimen that I produced
caused many an expatriate heart to beat
faster. No doubt the delicacy had been
dropped overboard from a passing liner.
* * * *
“Tamornie”: “Merrigal” thinks there is
some sort of link between Australian abo.
and New Guinea native. Before going to New
Guinea I spent a number of years in North
Australia, and acquired while there a fair
number of abo. words, most of them rather
Rabelaisian in flavor. At Kandan, in New
Ireland, a boy broke my last bottle of whisky.
Feeling that plain pidgin was unequal to the
occasion, I fell back on some North Aus-
tralian curses. The village women bolted
and the men stood dumbfounded. When the
dust settled the old chief reproached me for
using such language before the women, and,
to my great surprise, when I expressed
doubt that he had understood what I had
said, translated almost correctly the words
I had used. I tried him with other and
politer abo. words, but these he did not
understand.
* * * *
“Pick”: My droving mate herded off our
dogs and rescued the young kangaroo that a
fleeing, overladen mother had cast into a
wayside thicket. Carrying the intended pet,
he again assisted in pushing our sulking
hoggets along the scrub-bound track over
Shanty Hill. On the plain below we camped
to await the cool of the evening. Skipping
for freedom, the Joey disappeared in the
reeds along the river. Hours later the mother
came over the horizon and zig-zagged down
the long slope we had travelled from the hill.
Heedless of our cries and the yelps of the
dogs we stoned back, she traversed the thistle
flats, rummaged through the tussocks, and
pushed busily through the rushes. Presently,
with nose high, she bounded forward, and
rejoined the baby hopping from the river
bank. We marvelled at the powers of seen!
by which the mother had traced her offspring
over all that distance.
* * * *
“Native”: Touching the threat to lynch
Chapel after the discovery of Canoona (Q.)
(B. 25/12/’29), Friend, who sent a glowing
account of the discovery to Sydney, was
also threatened. He returned to the field
in company with Boles, a mounted police-
man. Near Canoona they met a party of
diggers who told Boles of their intention
to lynch Friend. They did not know that
gentleman, and Boles passed him off to
them as a Government official. Friend left
that night in police uniform for Gladstone.
I never heard of the Commissioner taking
a hand or that half an ounce could be got
to the dish then or at any time since. After
escaping the lynching Chapel went prospect-
ing on the head of the Dee and Calliope
rivers, and was there killed and eaten by
the blacks.
* * *
“Bad Australian”: A trip from Sydney
to the Hawkesbury is regarded as a very
pleasant little outing in these days, but it
appears to have been quite the reverse when
the First Settlers were building their wattle-
and-daub village by the Tank Stream, as
witness the following extract from a com-
munication addressed to the Hon. Henry
Dundas by Governor Grose in August, 1794:
“I have caused a very good road to be made
from Sydnev to the Hawkesbury. by the
which we discover the distance from this
place by land is much less than expected.
An officer by no means considered as being
particularly active undertook for a trifling
wager to walk there from Sydney in nine
hours, and with great ease to himself per-
formed a journey in eight .hours and two
minutes which formerly required an exertion
of some days to accomplish.”
❖ * * *
“S.S.S.”: Kisisi of Mauviavi needed a
new canoe, and all the men of the village
came to assist in the building of it. Should
a woman touch a canoe whilst it is building,
or even so much as
her shadow fail upon
it, good luck will come
to her, and terrible
evil to any man who
sits in it. Canoes,
therefore, are built
secretly and well
guarded. But once
the craft is launched,
any woman desiring a
man child can attain
him by swimming be-
hind the canoe and
drinking the first foam
from its wake. In
addition to a canoe,
Kisisi wanted a new
wife. Bogu, his wife,
was childless and he
had no say in the
council. So he mar-
ried Kamara, who had
soft eyes and a pret-
tily rounded person,
and Bogu became his
second wife, a poor
despised thing with
filed-off teeth and a
shaven poll, who did
all the delving. Bogu
knew a canoe was
being built, and when
the village was asleep
she crept up every
creek in the dark till
she found it aud
touched it. The dawn
of the launching of
the new canoe saw
Kamara all dressed up
with al] the sapi-sapi
earrings she possessed
and Could borrow, and
strings and strings
of blue beads. Through the septum of
her dear little nose a gold amber
shell stick was thrust, and three frru-
gipannis glowed in her combed-up curls.
She sniffed as she saw Bogu creep
slowly down the bamboo ladder of their
house with a grass basket full of gardening
kit slung heavily from her forehead. Kamara,
surrounded by a bevy of girls, went off to
the launching. Such a rejoicing, and'drums
and dancing. Just as the canoe slid into the
creek, with great shouts and fires to keep
the ghosts away, and dull throbbings of
devil drums, a little shaven-headed figure!
slipped from the opposite bank and, diving
under an alligator that lay in wait, swam
THE SORT OF MAN JIBKINS IS.
“Mean? Him? Why, he’s the sort of bloke
that would kill his father and mother
to get a free ticket to an orphans’
picnic."
under water straight for the canoe, and
drank its first foam. Bogu in due time bore
her child, a sturdy fatling with blue eyes and
lint-white locks, a throwback to the German
trader who had visited the village some
generations earlier. They threw her to the
alligator.
DAVE’S ENGAGEMENT RING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I put it to ’er an’ she says: “Well, yairs,
I’ll ’ave yer, dear, . . ,
If Dad’ll let me, for you know we’re milkin
big this year.”
I met the old man, an’ ’e says: “I think
you oughter do
Providin’ that you’ll wait for ’er until the
season’s through.”
An’ when, to make the bargain right, she
asks me for a ring
(She could ’ave asked me for the moon. I d
give ’er anything),
We went to Murphy’s store to see if they
’ad any there, ;
But there was only silver ones at four an
six a pair.
I wanted something pretty good—l’d spare
a pound or so,
Although it meant I’d ’aveter leave the two
new milkeans go.
I wrote for them there catalogue's they send
to single blokes,
An’ they put in a card with ’oles —these
coves must ’ave their jokes.
The night I tried the thing on Gert, be
gosh, we ’ad some fun !
We laughed enough to kill ourselves before
the thing was done.
She split four ’oles an’ tore the card, but
got fixed up at last.
We turned to see wot they were worth, an’
then my ’eart beat fast!
The cheapest was priced seven quid, the
dearest sixty-three;
I might be wrong, but still they looked the
flamin’ same to me.
It ’urt like mad when that there girl picked
one at sixteen-ten.
I thanked me stars I wouldn’t ’ave to buy
a ring again.
But think of it —a can, two calves, a bucket
an’ a cow—•
It seemed a lot to me jist then —it seems a
lot more now.
For when we got the flamin’ ’oop the damn
thing wouldn’t fit,
An’ when I tried to file it down a blinkin’
di’mond split!
VICTORIA.
P. T. F.


PRIZES FOR FARMERS.
The Prizes (£25, £10 and £5) for the past half-year’s contributions
that have been judged most helpful to the man on the land will be
announced next week.
At the same time arrangements with regard to future prizes will be
published.
Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W
Ctf tic highest production
pt&tiMe jpono you*
CHIC-A-VITE
U * S> ft £
ou a* toaJcJ
' cJ- ItU
lc -mo^uU^cj^.
so\, &JU dAjis
oJJL - t***C&iAUUsitC' Coat -to*v <X, MtJiy tj
29/v as ■‘4'CD<^\.
hjOL&crf tswjdhxxijL'
Lol*x+\S A <(Xa£ JuX.iMJL'
GLjyjulaJL' Jo {X+*Mj
v\s KP\aJC' % <*ud 4*mCL ckJ
ydL,aJi#i\s oU U>jls i)KaMJ-.
vv *
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CRPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
WHEAT VARIETIES IN S.A.
“Tumbe Munda”: Soil and climate varia-
tions in Australia are such that the wheat
which will suit one district may not suit
another. Federation is popular, and deser-
vedly so. It will stand any amount of rough
weather, and as my S. Aus. locality is one
in which we are apt to get a cold and
squally week even in midsummer, this
quality is appreciated. But the grain of
Federation is light and the plant is prone
to rust—a bad fault in a damp district.
Currawa is a beautiful wheat with a
remarkably heavy grain, but for our local
conditions is rather liable to shatter. If 1
were living in a hot district I should cer-
tainly grow Yandilla King, but it has been
discarded here because it is too tough to
strip. It was a custom with many local
farmers to strip Federation in the morning
and change over to Yandilla King in the
heat of the day. This was a bother, so
Y.K. was dropped.
The Glencoe (S.A.) district, being very
damp, had practically given up wheat-grow-
ing because of rust. The Department of
Agriculture recommended Zealand Blue. This
did better, but the trouble still persisted.
Being one of the first growers of Major
in S.A., I sent some bags of seed to friends
at Glencoe. The result was surprising; on
a number of farms wheat took the place
of barley, and rust was no longer a trouble.
Some farmers asked the department if
Major was rust-proof. The reply was there
are no rust-proof wheats, but Major is rust-
resistant.
Gluya-s is probably the best yielder grown
m S.A., but its tendency to lodge put it
right out of court in a place so windy and
wet as ours. I am pinning my faith to Major.
PEAS IN THE ROTATION.
“Yeoman’’: Intensive wheat production
will result in soil sterility in time. Heavy
dressings of super, alone will not arrest
waning fertility, because the gradual deple-
tion of other plant foods and humus aris-
ing from that intensive practice will become
the limiting factor with regard to yield.
There is, too, an accumulation in the soil
of the toxins thrown off by the roots of
the same crop grown, say, every second year
in the rotation mentioned. Wheat, oats,
barley, legumes and pasture grasses arc
each immune to the toxins from all other
plants.
South Aus. experience is that the best rota-
tion is fallow, wheat, peas, followed by wheat,
pasture and fallow. Either for the peas
harvested or for feeding off, a pea crop
should return £6 per acre. But it must be
emphasised that it needs an average yearly
rainfall of at least 17 inches, 75 p.c. of
which falls in April-November.
Where the pea crop immediately follows
wheat, the wheat stubble should be burned
off, or intensively fed off, so that the ground
will be ready for working un after the first
autumn rain. Indeed, the initial culti-
vation could correspond to that of summer
fallowing. It is very necessary to encour-
age the early growth of weeds, etc., so that
they may be destroyed by subsequent culti-
vations. Peas should be sown immediately
the wheat crop is in, or when the ordinary
cereal seeding is about half-way through.
The same quantity of super, should be applied
to peas as to wheat.
Peas, owing to their nitrogen-fixing attri-
butes, have a marked influence upon soil
fertility. This is demonstrated by Dr.
A. E. V. Richardson’s experience at the
Waite Research Institute. In 1926 eight
wheat plots sown on bare fallow averaged
40.9 bushels, while the three plots of wheat
in the rotation following peas averaged 45 7
bushels per acre. The rainfall -vyas 19.01
inches. In 1927 the eight wheat crops on
bare fallow averaged 41.1 bushels, while the
three crops following peas averaged 42 bushels.
The rainfall was 15.05 in. During these same
two years wheat after wheat averaged
26.3 bushels.
An average yield is about 21 bushels of
peas per acre where this crop follows wheat.
As they weigh 601 b. to the bushel and, on
a .weight basis, contain 100 p.c. more pro-
tein than oats, a bushel of peas has three
times the feeding value of a bushel of oats
and is more convenient for hand feeding. A
pea ration will fatten lambs and grown
sheep or pigs, and will promote a maximum
milk flow from cows. The best variety is
probably Brunswick White. It is earlier
and hardier than the Dun and yields better,
particularly under adverse conditions.
THE SELECTION FENCE.
“Gumblegubbin”: Many settlers lose
heavily in summer through fences getting
burnt by busli-fires.. Besides the labor and
time spent in repairing the damage, there
is the ever-increasing difficulty of finding-
material, especially in places where the
original forest timber has been destroyed by
ringbarking and burning off. Much of the
loss, if not the whole, could be avoided by
better fencing. I have had to patrol miles
of fences during busli-fires, usually with a.
tomahawk, and sometimes, where water was
available, with a tomahawk and bucket. In
nearly all cases of lighted posts and rails the
fire caught in the mortise-holes where rails
were loosely fitted, and on sapwood am.
splinters.
The sap dry-rots and loosens, and is a
quick kindler. So are splinters, which are
always thick on the edges of split stuff. If
the timber is well trimmed with squaring
axe* or adze, and the rails neatly fitted, leav-
ing no space for flames to lick into the
mortises, a grass-fire might sweep through
it without doing any serious damage, pro-
vided there is no litter of small wood about
the line. An old thin rail that takes fire
can easily be saved by a man or boy riding
along with a tomahawk. With a rough
fence he has too much chopping to do, and
the wood burns so quickly that many panels
are destroyed before he can reach them.
Another protection is a line of useful trees
along the boundary. These serve many
purposes; they provide shade for stock,
honey for bees, firewood and building
material, besides improving the look of the
place. Old-man saltbush planted against the
fence in the danger quarter is a good fire
check, and is excellent fodder in lean seasons.
These safeguards take a little extra time, but
against the losses incurred by rough and
unprotected fences they are decidedly econo-
mical.
THF PASIi 1 FOR r’T?n‘SQT*T?Fr»Q
IOR CROSSBREDS,
.E-V- : T he chief hope for the wool-
gr°wing u » du , Btr y ls 111 lowered costs of pro-
duction. A leading woolbroker, commenting
? n „ tlle posAlcm of crossbreds, points out that
co “ eba( * s or crossbreds represent the
of so far as values are con-
cerned as these show fluctuations of from
* to pei cent, as against 30 per cent,
for m . erl nos during the years since Bawra
J he . LmcoH-mermo cross
P, h £ b deludes Cornedales) holds its own
? nd has 5° p ?, er ln the matter °f density,
? UStre and well-defined crimp. The steady
- nCrea a e latbe demand for tweeds for sport-
f Dg and °ut-door wear, for women as well as
foi A?*!“’ Jf. tr^!« e hJa 8 /i fa - ctor ; l Ar „
re cent trials held during the Melbourne
sh ? ep Bhow Cornedale fleeces gave higher
valu . es than tboS< r of any other type, merinos
isTfl 0 ner fhp d Nn^ l6^ 6 Ph°- f
men ? suiTabTe de dSSicts° Wer *****
-a hi» » fi area of coast
jf t j ie fvnp of ornss .bred is ehoson a
1"» trade inTosen lambs for export caS
be worked up and wool can be grown at a
Profit. Ten years ago there were on these
l and s 10,000 sheep; to-day there are over
100,000. But that number is only a small
fraction of what could be raised if sheepmen
would take up the business in earnest,
Whether in connection with mixed farming
0 r as a whole-time occupation, crossbred
sheep on the Queensland coast lands and the
tablelands behind will pay men with ex-
wrience and canital
perience ana capltal ’
* whkttt WT4TT f yauti
» n WORTH-WIHLE YARD,
■ : A y 3rd , within each paddock
a n asset to easy working. A light, quickly-
erected yard, wire and posts, will prove
just as effective as the old stake or chain
log types, and will, if you make a good
job of it, outlast them.
Posts are placed 12ft. apart, 3in. to 4in. at
the small end, 20in. in the ground and 3ft.
6in. above. Strainers, 3ft. in the ground and
4ft. out. Three wires are run through the
posts, high tension for preference, and are
spaced, measuring from the ground level, 4iu.,
19in. and 40in. Two feet six inches marsu-
pial netting is placed along the inside. There
is no necessity to strain the netting to any
great extent. Tie at each panel after unroll-
ing and the slack is taken up when finishing
the tying.
Put four ties in the bottom, tying the net-
ting direct to the lowest wire ; then the four
along the top, stretching slightly, and three
on the centre bump-wire. This will give a
rigid wall of netting that will hold sheep
until they get black in the face. Keep the
netting out of the ground. Should lambs get
beneath the four-inch wire, tie light rails
below it.
Wire in dry ground will last a long time,
but there is certain to be a collection of silt
at the lower end, and you will need drain-
age of some sort. Division fences can be
made in the same manner, but place a
rail above the corners. It is here sheep
usually jump and men like to. get over the
wire; and no netting fence will improve with
the continual strain of a human body above
it.
PRICKLY PEAR—A DEFENCE.
“C.H.P.” : A lot has been said lately about
the blessing of the cactus grub to owners of
priekly-pear land. At the risk of being
dubbed pessimistic, I am going to sound a
warning. What is the grub going to eat
when it has obligingly cleared the pear? In
my district (Brigalow, Queensland) there
are patches in which pear was waist-high a
year ago; now the country looks as if a
blight had withered the plants, and it only
needs a fire to clean it up.
Apart from the possible danger of the
grubs taking to crops, there is the question
of what the small selector is going to do to
replace the pear. At present he turns his
cattle out into the dense pear in the dry
season and picks them up again when he
has feed, minus a few that will not take to
the pear. Inspectors say he will get Govern-
ment assistance to build silos, and will have
to grow feed to fill the silo. Easy enough
in theory but quite different in practice.
Take this district alone. There has been
only a sprinkle of rain since last April.
Recently there was just enough to cause
farmers to plant feed: now the hot sun is
burning off the young shoots again. There
is no chance here for the small selector to
grow enough feed to fill a silo, nor could h*
keep up the payments on the thing and on
the necessary plant. The pear is the small
selector’s drought stand-by; it keeps his
cattle alive, and boiled with molasses it is
excellent pig-feed. It will be a bad day for
districts like ours when the last of the pear
has gone.
LABOR-SAVING ON DAIRY FARMS.
“Moreton Bay” : There are many simple
labor-saving devices which might be employed
in the working of dairy farms. For example,
two farmers are milking 60 cows each. One
man’s bails are so constructed that he can
bail up, wash, leg-rope and let go each cow
five seconds quicker than the other without
undue hurry to the cow. On 60 cows twice
a day it means a saving of 3650 minutes in
a year. And time is money.
On one farm you will see a person feeding
with two or three buckets, and 20 ravenous
poddies trying to get a drink at once, and
being belted over the head until their turn
comes—if they don’t manage to snatch it
before. On another farm you will see them
drinking through holes in a fence. Slightly
better, but requiring the same persuasive
cracks. And, as in the former case, each
calf turns round and sucks its mate as soon
as it has finished drinking—a bad habit
which causes balls of hair to assemble in
their insides and subsequent complications.
In a third place you find 20 neat and
easily constructed poddy bails, each bail rod
with a drop latch attached. The milk runs
along a daily cleaned spout from separator
to skim-milk vat, with a tap to run off and
leave froth behind. Two measures are there,
one for milk and the other for whatever meal
gruel is used. A one-foot platform runs along
the front of the bails and as the milk is
placed on it in.separate poddy buckets (kero-
sene-tins cut six inches high without handles
make good ones) the bail is closed on each
call as it is fed, and kept closed for 10
minutes after ; then they will no longer try
to suck. The same bails can be used for
calves to be sprayed or branded, which saves
the trouble of catching or throwing. Lastly
the animals are being broken into the bail
right from the start.
In industries which go in for mass pro-
duction duplication and roundabout methods
have been abolished. Managers of rural
businesses can profit by this example.
PASPALUM PASTURES.
V. J.S.”: Paspalum has assured the pros-
perity of dairying iij the semi-tropical
coastal areas of Queensland and N.S.W., but
many of the pastures, through negligence, are
falling off. Grasses as well as crops need
attention.
After five years’ feeding off, paddocks,
where possible, should be ploughed up and
sown with autumn fodder crops, such as
oats and Berseem clover. Or, better still, if
the country is at all suitable for it, a mix-
ture of grasses and clovers; say, 21b. each
of tail fescue, meadow fescue, Italian rye,
perennial rye, Wimmera rye and cocksfoot to
the acre and lib. each of Phalaris bulbosa,.
white clover, sub. clover, perennial red
clover, lucerne and sheep’s burnet to the
acre. This will give succulent feed all the
year round. Afterwards revert to paspalum,
and your pasture will be again like new.
the time for turnips.
“Hortus” ; Now is the time to think about
all crops of the turnip family. It’s no use
planting swedes unless fairly humid con-
ditions prevail, for they are shallow-rooters,
and moisture must be considered before
quality of soil. And it’s no use sowing seed
unless mild weather with frequent rains can
be expected during the next three or four
months. In my part of N.S.W., January,
February and March are the best sowing
months, but growers must study their own
local weather. The main point to be con-
sidered is not to sow during the hot period.
Sandy soil—not too sandy—gives the best
results from a moisture-retention point of
view. The ideal soil is one on which the
previous cereal crop-stubble has been burnt
and the ash-content ploughed under. The
land must be cleaned thoroughly; if it is not
clean aphis will very likely appear. The idea
should be to have three or four inches of fine,
friable soil on top of a well-worked, easily-
drained subsoil.
It is best to sow in drills, 2£ft. apart.
About 21b. of seed is enough. As the suc-
cess of a turnip crop depends on quick
growing, use lewt. of super, to the acre;
quick growing will defeat aphis in the' long
run, if aphis should arrive. Some growers
mix the seed with the super, and sow it
through the manure-box of the wheat-drill,
blocking up feeders not required. This
method must be very carefully carried out;
the two will not feed through evenly unless
watched. When the young plants are up a
few inches thin out with the hoe to 18
inches apart. Turnips come in at a time
when other foods are scarce, and with their
succulence they render the dry food in the
ration more palatable and nourishing. Sheep
may be turned on the crop or the turnips
can be pitted. They a»e a great stand-by for
sheep and pigs, and they can be readily dis-
posed of for human consumption if you have
an over-supply.
PAPER MULCH IN QUEENSLAND.
“Hop Scrub’’: In the Cleveland-Redland
Bay district of Queensland, paper mulch has
proved valuable by increasing yields of pine-
apples, and lessening the labor cost of weed-
ing. Apart from pineapples, some progress
results at Gatton College indicate that it
is only on specialised crops of high cash
value that the use of the black strips is
economically justifiable. Allowing for vari-
ations in grade and price, the mulch costs
from £l2 to £l6 per acre to lay down. On
pines that cost would be spread over several
crops. For tomatoes and vegetables it means
an annual charge.
At Gatton tomatoes showed an increased
rate of 24.5 bushels per acre over unmulched
controls and produced the fruit earlier.
Whether the earlier maturity and increased
yields outweigh the cost of the paper depends
upon market price. Tomatoes are planted
out through the mulch; crops „which are
sown in rows are harder to deal with, as
weeds grow along the strip between the
mulch. In the case of maize and cotton,
acreage costs of the mulch are too high. It
is of questionable value with fruit trees save
perhaps when they are very young.
The chief effect on plant growth is pro-
bably due to conservation of moisture,
increased temperature and the fact that the
surface soil is available for root growth.
With the ordinary “crumb” or “dust”
mulch the roots are forced down to lower
and very often inferior soil.
(Continued on page 25.)


in
m/s
PULL
/
s
SIZE
Worlds JVon-StopAutomoii/e
Record Shattered by Plymouth
More than one year’s average driving
in 26 days! 11,419 miles of travel
in 632 hours—with never a moment’s
rest for motor or chassis! That is
the record-breaking feat performed
by a Chrysler-built standard stock
Plymouth 4-door Sedan over all sorts
of roads.
The finish was voluntary with the
motor functioning perfectly. Official
examination showed scarcely a trace
of carbon, no need to grind valves, no
appreciable wear, no single part that
required either repair or replacement.
Here is proof of unduplicated engi-
neering soundness. Here is a low-
priced car that is built to last. Come
in and find out for yourself what
Plymouth performance means!
P 4 7 7
r
T
D U
T
H R
M
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales ... Larke, Neave & Carter, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Lane's Motors Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Ward Motors, Limited, Brisbane
West Australia Wm. AttWood Motors, Ltd., Perth
South Australia Southern Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania Metro Motors Pty., Ltd., Hobart
New Zealand Todd Motor Company, Wellington
New Guinea W. R. Carpenter & Co., Ltd., Rabaul


want MORE
than TRANSPORTATION
.•1--
If transportation in a limited
sense were all that an auto-
mobile could provide, any car
would do, and the cheapest
would be the best.
The difference between the minimum in
transportation and the maximum in motoring
is exactly what sets the Chrysler-built De
Soto Six completely apart from others in
its field. It explains why the De Soto Six
has broken all sales records for a first-year
car.
De Soto Six has style, stability, speed,
smoothness. It is flexible to a degree never
before achieved in a car of its price. Its
comfort and luxury of appointment are
self-evident. Safety and ease of control
are assured by weatherproof four - wheel
hydraulic brakes.
De Soto Six is capable of such distinctive and
versatile performance that nothing less than a
demonstration can do it justice. We
shall be glad to arrange this demon-
stration to suit your convenience.
fl
■
De Soto Six
<||| CHRYSLER MOTORS PRODUCT
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales Grenville Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Automobiles Proprietary, Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Stradbroke Motors, Ltd., Brisbane
South Australia . .
Western Australia
NetO Zealand . . . .
. . . . Dominion Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Wentworth Motors, Ltd., Perth
New Zealand Motors, Ltd., Wellington
Metro Motors PtyLtd., Hobart,
T asmania
D. 267


r
fe
m
■ ■, i 1
For the utmost
ease of fit
It is so light and supple—and so
exactly shaped to the curves of the
foot that this special Abbey Riding
Boot guarantees comfort from the
first time on. The upper has an inner
lining of soft, smooth leather. Elastic
insets yield with every movement
yet preserve perfect snugness. And
the sole is made of the toughest
leather obtainable.
Order by Post
Narrow, medium and wide fittings are
available in all sizes. Specify width
and length, and order, also, a tin of
Abbey Preservative Polish (6d.), or
a compact cleaning outfit (2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF . . 427-
BLACK BOX CALF . . 37/6
New summer sporting catalogue post free on
request.
ABBEY
(Established over 80 years),
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY
Telegraphic Address: “Abbey Boots,” Sydney.
FPL 160
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
s
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL& Cut a
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
OUT ON ITS OWN!
/
m
The
Prince Poley,
£l4/14/-
for strength
and comfort
Read what Mr.
R. H. Bartlam,
of Lara Downs
Station, Julia
Creek says about his
Wieneke No. 920.
Dear Mr. Wieneke, —Your
saddle is very comfortable. It
combines the ease, of a poley
with the security of a big
saddle. I appreciate the work
and care bestowed on the
saddle. I wish you to know
that I consider the Wieneke
saddle out on its own for
strength, comfort, security and
reliability, and I have been per-
fectly satisfied after giving it a
rigorous test. — ( Signed ) 11.11.8.
Send for a Free Copy of my new book,
“How to Ride in Comfort.”
JOHN WIENEKE,
The Saddle Specialist,
371 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W. ; or
434 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE, Q’LAND.
ft)
&r
5/
J
Daily
Mishaps
Make ZAM-BUK A Daily Need!
WHETHER used for a
bruised knee, cut, burn,
poisoned finger, grazed fore-
head, or a sprained ankle, or
open wound, Zam-Buk soon
takes away the hurt, soreness
and danger and ensures quick
healthy healing.
Ever-ready and thoroughly
antiseptic Zam-Buk is the
best, safest, and most efficient
of home first-aids.
Always keep handy a box of
this grand healer. Zam-Buk
Medicinal Soap too is excellent.
lamBuk
Ointment 1/6 or 3/6. Medicinal Soap 1/«
X
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION. LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE. 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
m
b
«%
w
r , f
Nmm
Bll6—With horizontal stripes of Red and
White or Green and White. 6ft. spread,
38/6 each. With 7ft. spread, 44/-
If fitted with tilting device, 11/. extra.
Bl36—Brilliant color contrasts of various
colors against white background. 6ft.
spread, with tilting device, 57/6 each.
With 7ft. spread and tilting device, 66/-
each.
BEACH UMBRELLAS
AND UNCOMMON ONES, TOO!
CHANDLER’S Beach Umbrellas
are not only reasonably priced
but their gay and attractive color
combinations doubly enhance
their value.
As well as the design illustrated
there are others featuring Pirate
Ships, Mermaids, Water-lilies, etc.
B96—Covers of heavy dyed twill, in alternate
panels of either Orange and Blue, Red and Blue,
Green and Red, Blue and White, 6ft. spread,
with eight ribs, 32/6 each. With 7ft. spread,
37/6 If fitted with tilting device in handle,
11/- extra.
8196 —Heavy dyed twill covers, with fancy
designs, hand-painted in brilliant colors, as
illustrated, 6ft. spread, 34/- each. 7ft. spread,
40/-. If fitted with tilting device in handle,
11/- extra.
Prices are free on rails Melbourne.
fl
m
cj/tv BIGGEST HARDWARE HOUSE IN VICTORIA
(D. & W. CHANDLER, LTD.),
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY, VICTORIA.
SALINITY OF WATER FOR IRRIGA-
TION.
“Yeoman”: As a user of spring water for
irrigation I have noticed that the class of
soil, particularly the nature of the sub-soil,
and the rainfall have as important a bearing
upon results as the degree of salinity of
the water.
The non-injurious solids in spring water
include calcium carbonate (lime), calcium
sulphate (gypsum j, magnesium carbonate,
sodium nitrate and ferric oxide and alumina.
The most coinmqn harmful solids with us
are sodium chloride (common salt), mag-
nesium chloride (but generally to a much
less degree), magnesium sulphate (Epsom
salts) in still smaller quantities, and some-
times sodium sulphate (Glauber’s salts).
While there is no known neutralising agent
for the harmful salts, the presence of calcium
carbonate and calcium sulphate may be
helpful to plants, inasmuch as they confer
upon them a certain degree of resistance to
the toxic action of, at least, some of the
injurious salts.
Waters containing 25-50 gr. per gal. of
harmful solids may be safely used in irriga-
tion. Those with 50-100 gr. would be fairly
good for all orchard trees and vegetables,
where the rainfall runs from 15 to 20 inches
per annum and there is good natural drain-
age. A heavy impervious clay subsoil would,
however, result in an accumulation of suffi-
cient injurious salts to bring about sterility
in a year or two.
Waters with 100-150 gr. can only be used
where a fair rainfall and good subsoil drain-
age will carry the harmful salts off in
solution beyond reach of the roots of the
plants. It may be taken for granted, in any
case, that this degree of salinity is too much
for oranges and French beans, both more
susceptible to injury than other trees and
vegetables. Yet in Mexico water containing
up to 300 grains per gallon has been suc-
cessfully used, but probably the subsoil was
very porous.
The annual application of two acre feet
of water containing 100 grains of harmful
salts per gallon would deposit 77321 b. of
such injurious salts per acre in 12 months.
The influence of a good natural rainfall in
leaching out these salts is obvious. That
applies to a subsoil that facilitates free drain-
age, too. For these reasons, when getting
water analysed, also send particulars of
rainfall, and describe surface and subsoil.
Lucerne will thrive on water with a
degree of salinity that would be harmful
to orchard and vegetable growths.
SELECTING THE COCKERELS.
“Jack Point”: Although it is not pos-
sible to make a final selection at such an
age, the duds that have survived Christ-
mas should be weeded out and killed or sent
to market. You want the good-sized (but
not over-sized) type, standing firmly with
legs well apart, eye showing plenty of fire,
beak short and well-formed, comb evenly
serrated and not too big or “meaty,” tail
carried at an angle not higher than 45 de-
grees, well-boned yellow legs, and good color,
according to breed.
Don’t look for show points in a utility
bird, provided he has the general appearance
of belonging to an egg-producing family;
on the other hand don’t go to the other ex-
treme and discard any just because they do
exhibit some good show points. The ideal
bird is the one that can hold its own in
appearance and weight as well as egg-pro-
duction. Any cockerels that have matured
unevenly should be given the order of the
axe at once. Keep, say, 50 per cent, more
than you are likely to need as breeders to
allow for casualties, and give them good feed
and house them well until they are required
for the breeding pen. Don’t on any account
have them running with hens or pullets. As
the selected ones grow up, keep weeding out
any that don’t live up to their early promise,
and don’t give any the benefit of doubts that
may arise.
FROST-INJURY THEORIES.
“Hopscrub”: When the tissues of a plant
are frozen, the protoplasm of the cells con-
tracts and water appears in the intercellular
spaces; it is from this water that ice is
formed. More water is withdrawn from
the cells until collapse ensues, the proto-
plasm being no longer able to sustain itself
in the absence of water. Death from frost-
injury is therefore actually due to loss of
moisture. Experiments are in progress with
a view to increasing the density of cell sap
by feeding the plant with fertilisers. Potas-
sium sulphate gives indications of being
valuable.
A rapid fall in temperature is more dan-
gerous than a slow fall because plants have
no time to develop resistance. Rapid thaw-
ing is not necessarily more injurious than
slow thawing; but sunscald is a factor that
must be considered. Whitewashing the trunks
of fruit trees is a useful preventive against
frost injury of this kind, because it tends to
eaualise temperature. It is inexpensive, as
the wash may be applied with the spray-gun.
Site is of the greatest importance. Orchard
or plantation sites that lie at the bottom
of air drainage are always dangerous, as
cold air tends to seek the lowest point. Wind
breaks are valuable for interrupting this
flow of cold air, besides affording protection
against cold and desiccating winds. Normally,
higher levels in a wide valley are freer from
frost than a higher elevation in a narrow
valley.
There are various direct methods of frost-
prevention, such as covering and sheltering
the plants, the use of smudges or smoke, and
orchard heating. Covers are adequate protec-
tion for gardens, but are not adapted to com-
mercial orchards. Cloudy nights even when
still are not frosty. Smudging, or the use
of smoke produced from green wood, bracken,
straw or crude oil and sawdust, is an attempt
to retard radiation losses so that frost damage
will be prevented. Raising the temperature
by using a large number of heaters has
proved more successful. But the temperature
can be raised only a few degrees, and the
installation of heaters represents a heavy
overhead cost.
A fruit tree of any type is essentially a
sensitive plastic organism, which reacts to
every cultural practice, such as cultivation,
fertilisation, irrigation, pruning and spraying.
The tree becomes either hardier and more
resistant or' tenderer and less resistant to
frost injury. Late-blooming fruits naturally
incur fewer frosts, a fact to be considered
in hill country.
Leaf vitality must be maintained; water
shoots and tender growth removed, so that
the tree meets the cold weather with con-
centrated reserves of sap and food. Lower
temperatures have been recorded over vegeta-
tion than over bare ground, so clean cultiva-
tion will reduce the risk of frost injury.
Unripe growth at the beginning of winter is
not desirable, so that irrigation must not be
overdone in autumn. On the other hand, too
dry a soil in winter increases the risk of
frost injury where the trees are exposed to
wind.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
My ducklings lose the use of their legs, and
turn up* their toes after a few days’ illness.
Cause and cure? —4l4l.
The ducklings were probably without
water for a short time, and then had a
feed before the water was replenished. Duck-
lings should never be allowed to become
short of drinking water, as this is a common
cause of mortality and sickness. If the
water supply should at any time become de-
pleted no feed should be given for about an
hour after water is supplied.
(1) What area in N.S.W. is held under
snow leases? (2) For what is such land
mainly used? (3) Districts in which snow
leases are granted? (4) Can any person
apply for one? (5) Terms? —42so.
(1) 340,000 acres. (2) For grazing pur-
poses, the land being principally taken up
by pastoralists who require relief country in
summer. (3) In the mountain ranges in
the south-east, mostly in the land districts
of Cooma and Tumbarumba. (4) Yes; not
on application but by way of tender when
leases are offered. None are now available.
(5) Payment of an annual rent, not less
than the advertised amount. Term of lease
as advertised ; maximum is 14 years.
Where in N.S.W. can one secure 10 to 50
acres of Crown land suitable for homestead,
farming with good water supply, not con-
nected ivith any irrigation area? —4l6o.
Practically no Crown land of the class
described is at present available. Most of
the vacant unreserved Crown land is in-
ferior, inaccessible or remote from trans-
port facilities. Nevertheless attractive farms
are made available from time to time from
expired leases or public reserves no longer
necessary. A list of lands available and
becoming available is issued by the Lands
Department about once a month, and is
posted free of charge to all registered land-
seekers. You can be registered by notifying
the department.
llow to control green peach aphis? —4234.
It is a problem. The aphis hides between
the folds of the young leaves; this makes
treatment after the trees burst into leaf very
difficult, as contact sprays do not reach a
large proportion of the rapidly-breeding pesv.
lor some years the N.S.W. Agricultural
Department had complete faith, as regards
the northern tablelands, in spraying with
red spray oil, diluted 1 to 20 of water by
volume at the end of winter. However this
treatment has not been so satisfactory of
recent years. A spray that has the best
results in the Entomological Department’s
field trials is nicotine sulphate diluted 1 to
600 by volume, to which soap is added, lib.
to every 25 gallons of spray. It is applied
just before tire buds burst or when they are
showing color; then the aphis eggs have
hatched and the immature aphids can readily
be hit by the spray. This treatment will
however have to stand the test of further
experience before it can be described as
absolutely effective.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Malite”: Horses get most sand into their
systems when picking the short, green feed
after the early rains, and this is the best
time to treat them. A pound of molasses
per horse fed in chaff once a week is all
that is needed. When dealing with horses
already sanded be careful with the drench;
if too severe it may cause inflammation in
the stomach.
“Toggle”: A handy and effective dingo
decoy is a tin of the fish-glue used in shear-
ing-sheds. Three or four traps bunched in
a likely place, a few drops of fish-glue and
a streak of luck will fix the wariest old
warrigal.
“Bill R.” ; A way of catching eagles that
are killing the lambs is to spread on the
plain an old rug or square of hessian with
a skinned lamb or a sheep’s pluck in the
middle. To reach the banquet the bird
walks clumsily on the table. His talons are
apt to get caught in the fabric and become
more firmly hooked as he kicks to release
them. In the end he may roll himself in
the blanket and may then be captured easily.
“Gardener”; Artichokes won’t keep well
out of the ground. Sow in well-drained beds
and leave them there till actually wanted.
Seed can be stored in sand. In selecting
seed tubers keep all the clean chaps free
crinkles; in this crop like begets iike.
“Kappa”: The domestic water supply may
be tested in this way. Nearly fill a' clean
white glass bottle with a sample, add half
a teaspoon of castor sugar, cork tightly and
expose to sunlight or ordinary bright light
for about 48 hours. If the water becomes
cloudy its quality for drinking purposes is
at least doubtful. In the summer it is a
good plan to boil all drinking water.
“Hortus”: If hosing is resorted to in the
vegetable garden, don’t let the soil get caked.
Use the Dutch hoe as often as possible;
during the summer months it is the most
valuable tool in the shed.
“Minthall”: Liberal autumn sowing of
many of the softer lines will give good keep-
ing vegetables for winter. The marrow and
squash family are the quickest maturers. For
ordinary districts sow them in rows close
together. Leave all the best-looking fruit
on the vine till the vine dies; this means
maturity and sealing of the stalk. Store
them away in a dry place. Sow beet-
root and leeks where you want them
and thin out; leeks need heartliing up like
celery. Generally enough stuff can be sown
in a good autumn to last a family through
a winter. A touch of the frost on ripe
marrows and squashes will sweeten and
harden them and ensure better keeping


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover or
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons. _ ,
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
By young man, position sheep station, N.S.W. or
Q’lanii, exp. motor-driver.—4192.
Englishman (30), Q’land, strong and healthy,
would like job on mixed farm. —4273.
Girl wants position country, Q’land or N.S.W.,
any household duties, car-driver, refs.—4267.
Dressmaker, refs., open engagements Vic., city,
suburbs or country.—4251.
Ex-officer (30), glutton for work, particularly
statistical and diplomatic correspondence, offers
services.—4254.
Mining engineer (50), knowledge metals, gems, oil,
accountancy, would like engagement station, prospect
spare time. —4200.
Photographic salesman (24), nearly three years
with leading Melbourne firm, also English exp., wants
better job.—4232.
Lift driver (24), Sydney, requires position, trust-
worthy, non-smoker.—4231.
By young Tasmanian, linotype mechanic, four years
ono paper, similar position, or any other mechanical
work.—4217.
Careful driver, Sydney, wants hire single-seater
first two weeks March. —4239.
Youth (18), Sydney, licensed car-driver, wants
job anywhere.—4281.
Country youth (19), N.S.W., seeks job as station
hand, anywhere. Refs.—4280.
Accountancy student (20), inter, standard, wants
job in Sydney or Melbourne. —4279.
Young man, exp. with cattle, w'uild like job on
Q’land or N.T. sheep or cattle station. —4307.
Youth (18), 12 months’ exp. with Vic. wheat and
sheep, wants farm or station job, any State. —4287.
Educated single man, exp. land and stock, motor-
ing, bookkeeper, co. sec., holds private pilot’s
license, would like to hear of a position.—4286.
To buy Fowle’s “Sydney in 1848’’ (any or all
parts), “Aussie” (trench numbers) ; Stevenson’s
“Father Damien.” —-4278.
To buy textbook on Spanish language, also Spanish
novel suitable for student to translate. —4277.
To buy Chapman’s “Homer.”—4306.
To buy well-marked snake’s skin, tanned, suitable
for making belt.—4284.
To buy, set of tooth forceps, good order. —4285.
Words of recitation, “How I Won the V.C.” —4219.
Would sender of parcel addressed Wilson, care
Cribh and Foote, Charlotte-street, Brisbane, write;
only label received. —4253.
Miner, W.A., wants a backer, sound proposition.
—4256.
Copy of Australian short story concerning a
reporter who mixed up accounts of a wedding and an
execution.—4265.
Whereabouts of Pat O’Donnell (“Morgan”), who
worked on Port Alma railway construction about
1909. Old mate inquiring.—4271.
Flawless specimens of quartz crystals for piezo-
electric radio oscillators. —4272.
Young Australian, educated engineering and agri-
culture, would like to correspond with readers in
British Columbia or Argentina.—4247.
Information Sought.
Is there any locality in Westralia where an
experienced prospector stands a chance of
getting gold? (2) Correct way to go about
getting a claim; rent, etc.? —4263.
(1) Yes, many. The auriferous areas still
produce a large quantity of gold and a great
number of prospectors make a living thereby.
(2) Get a copy of the Mining Act 1904 and
Regulations thereunder; it gives full particu-
lars relative to pegging and applying for a
Prospecting Area, Gold Mining Lease, etc.
Costs Is. 6d. from the Under-Sec. for Mines,
Perth.
(1) What prises are offered by the Federal
Government for film scenarios? (2) Exactly
what do they mean by ‘"scenario” ? —4242.
(1) (a) For the best not hitherto pro-
duced, written in Australia by a British
subject resident at least two years, £500 ; (b)
the best containing Australian sentiment,
same conditions, £500. (2) The plot and
arrangement of incidents of a plioto-play,
written out all ready for production.
(1) Is it possible to manufacture a sale-
able perfume from Australian wild flowers?
(2) Has any investigation been conducted on
the matter? (3) If so, where could I get
reports f—4285.
(1) Yes; for example, from boronia. (2)
Yes, a number. (3) Technological Museum,
Sydney.
(1) Is a person otherwise eligible
entitled to the invalid pension if he has
£100 in cash but no other assets? (2) Would
he be entitled to the pension if he had £50
altogether ? —4057.
(1) Yes, but to a reduced rate —£47 per
annum. (2) Yes, to the full £52 p.a. Pro-
vided in each case there are no other assets
or income.
(1) Is rain water stored in an under-
ground concrete tank suitable for drinking
purposes, the catchment being a tile roof?
The tank is well constructed, and is a good
distance away from the septic system. (2)
How do underground tanks compare with
galvanised tanks for drinking water gener-
ally?—4193.
(1) Provided the lining of the tank is
satisfactory, there is no reason why the
water should not be suitable for drinking
purposes. The water supply at Gibraltar
is so stored and used; and half the drinking
water used in Adelaide was until a few
years ago conserved underground, mostly in
cemented brick tanks. (2) Waters differ con-
siderably in composition and qualities. Much
will therefore depend on the quality of the
water in question. The use of galvanise^
iron should not be decided on until chemical
examination has shown the water to be with-
out material action on the zinc coating. It
very rarely is harmful.
Qualifications for a dairy inspector, N. S.
Wales or Queensland? I hold cream-testing,
-grading and hatter-making certificates. —
4037.
In N. S. Wales a satisfactory knowledge
of stock and stock diseases, sanitation and
hygiene and of plant used by dairy farmers.
Besides the certificates mentioned dairy in-
structors should hold the Hawkesbury A. C.
dairy diploma or its equivalent, preferably
the Hawkesbury pass certificate for dairy-
produce factory employees’ course in manu-
facture. If the dairy diploma is obtained
the student must also have obtained subse-
quently a complete training in the manu-
facture of dairy produce under commercial
conditions before he will be eligible to be
attached to the field staff as a dairy instruc-
tor. In Queensland the qualifications re-
quired are not so high ; they combine a good
knowledge of manufacture, dairy-farm
methods and stock, including diseases and
ailments.
I have two steel-plate Rosa Bonheur pic-
tures, with a brown tint round them caused, I
suppose, by the sun shining through glass
windows. How can I clear away the brown
tint? —42B2.
By immersing the pictures in a weak solu-
tion of chloride of lime for about -half an
hour. They must then be washed in clean
running water to remove all traces of the
chloride of lime. But unless you nave some
knowledge of this work you would be well
advised to entrust the job to a reputable
picture restorer.
The high-jump record for an Australian
horse? —4240.
Lookout, owned by Mr. and Mrs. A. A.
Laidlaw, jumped 7ft. lOJin. at the 1926
Tenterfield (N.5.W..) show, and this is the
highest officially recorded. However, in Sep-
tember last, at the Albury show, J. W.
Perry’s horse The Hawk jumped 7ft.
An application to the Royal Agricultural
Society for recognition has yet to be dealt
with.
How to remove ink and grease spots from
plaster walls? —-4178.
Owing to the slightly porous nature of
plaster, it is difficult to clean such wails
satisfactorily. Grease can sometimes _be
removed by placing a piece of clean blotting-
paper over the spots, and holding a hot iron
on the paper for a few moments; or by
applying a paste made of petrol and whiting,
allowing it to dry, and then brushing off.
Ink yields to a weak solution of oxalic acid
in water, about 1 teaspoon to half a cup,
when the stains lie on a very hard surface;
but on plaster this cleaner may cause them
to spread even deeper. The cheapest and
quickest method is to kalsomine the wall
afresh. If the marks are very pronounced
paint them over with the kalsomine rather
thickly before doing the wall, and allow to
dry before commencing the work.
(1) How many N.S.W. Upper House mem-
bers are there at present? (2) Privileges
allowed members of the Federal and State
Parliaments? (3) Population of States and
mainland territories? —4283.
(I) Ninety-three. (2) Free railway passes,
stationery, a postage allowance, use of Par-
liamentary library and refreshment rooms
and late-sitting cars. Some of them are also
placed on the free list by racing clubs,
theatrical managers, boxing promoters and
the like. (3) Estimates at June 30, 1929:
N.S.W., 2,462,421; Vic., 1,767.539; Q’land,
927.092; S.A., 579,415; W.A., 411.734; Tas.,
212,512 ; Northern Territory, 4170 ; Federal
Capital Territory, 8336.
/ cured a sheep pup of distemper by using
the Government Laboratory vaccine, but
he has since suffered from a form, of St.
Vitus’s dance. Any remedy?- —4222.
St. Vitus’s dance following distemper is
most difficult to treat. It is possible to
control the twitchings with such drugs as
bromide of potassium, sulphonal and lumi-
nal soda, but as soon as the action of these
nerve sedatives has ceased, there is a recur-
rence of symptoms. Feed the dog carefully,
and see that his bowels are kept in good
order with laxative medicine and green vege-
tables. Massage abdomen and limbs at regu-
lar intervals. Keep him quiet, and place
him in a comfortable kennel or box.
(1) Qualifications demanded in the case of
candidate for the N.S.W. Local Government
Engineer exam,? (2) When is exam, held?
(3) Where can copies of past exam, papers
be got? ——4loß.
(1) Before a person can sit he is required
to furnish proofs (a) that he has passed
the inter, certificate exam, or an equivalent,
and (b) that he has been engaged on active
engineering work for not less than two con-
secutive years within the preceding five
years. (2) Once a year, usually about the
end of August or the beginning of September.
(3) At Government Printing Office; 6d. (7d.
posted).
(1) Best way of treating anew fish (cast-
ing) net to preserve it from effects of con-
stant use in salt water? Net is of linen
thread, has a drop of 7 ft. and spread of
14//.; If in. mesh. (2) Should the net be
washed in fresh water after each using? —
3988.
(1) Tan it. For a net of the size men-
tioned about 21b. o.f chopped wattle barkshould
be sufficient; this can be procured at any well-
known ship-chandler’s. Place bark in a kero-
sene-tin, three-quarters filled w r ith either
fresh or salt water, and leave to soak over-
night. In the morning place tin over a
brisk fire and bring to the boil, then allow
to simmer for an hour. Take it off the fire
and remove bark; this can be done by tying
a piece of hessian over a forked stick and
lifting bark from bottom of tin. About two
quarts of cold water should now be added
to the tan liquor. Place as much of the net
in the tin as it will hold, and allow to soak
for lOmin. or 15min., continuing until the
whole has been treated. If it is intended
to put the net away for any length of time,
dry it well, wash in salt water, and dry
again by hanging ,011 a horizontal pole or
spreading on the grass. (2) It-is always
advisable to wash a net after it has been
used; doesn’t matter whether fresh or
salt.
Method of storing bacon or ham so as to
prevent attacks from, insects? —4233.
The flesh may be rolled in bran, coarse
oatmeal, shelled oats, peameal, beeswing _or
chaff, or wrapped in clean white packing
paper and stored away on shelves or in
boxes. A simple means of checking blow-
flies is to sprinkle the surface of the meat
with black pepper, or a mixture containing
this and cayenne pepper. Another plan is
to saturate calico, hessian or clean bagging-
in a creamy mixture, of lime and water, and
wrap it round the ham or bacon after the
latter has been rolled in oatmeal bran. Stitch
the covering closely round the flesh and
hang in a cool place till required.
(1) Is the Milmerran (Q.) district suit-
able for lucerne growing? (2) When to
plant? Gould it be done now to catch the
rainy season? (3) Is super, necessary? (4)
Amount of seed required per acre, and any
other hint? —4218.
(11 Not altogether. Only certain classes
of Milmerran soil can be said to be really
suitable, specifically those of a basaltic
origin and of high calcium content. And
the rainfall ought to be a bit higher than
that usually credited to the district. Some
of the soils and rainfall of the Ivooroongarra
scrub are more adapted for lucerne than
those immediately surrounding Milmerran.
(2) Not earlier than April nor later than
the end of May; Don’t plant now. (3) No.
Thorough and early preparation following
some form of cereal crop is preferable. The
land should be prepared as finely as is
,'required for an onion bed without the
compaction necessary in the case of onion
crops. (4) Select a locality that is not too
far below frost levels, as although frosts are
not fatal to the plant they retard its early
growth. Sow at the rate of 121 b. per acre,
lightly drilled in.
(1) Will a bird-of-paradise flower grow in
a barrel the size of a kerosene-tin? (2) Is
any special soil necessary? —4l74.
(1) Yes, for some time; but it will later-
need to be placed in a larger receptacle or
divided and repotted. (2) A fairly heavy
loam, and it will have to be well watered and
given a fair amount of sunlight.
I want an automatic-pistol license in
N.S.W. Procedure? —4157.
Apply to the officer-in-charge of the nearest
police-station ; the fee is 10s.
Method of smoking or otherwise preserving
eels ? —4244.
They should be split, the bone being re-
moved, and put in a strong brine for from
two to four hours, according to size, and
then smoked over a slow sawdust fire for
about ten hours. Or they can. be preserved
by rubbing them with dry salt until thor-
oughly saturated and then dried in the open
air. Either operation requires some experi-
ence and skill, and smoked eels won’t keep
more than a few days.
(1) Names of world's champion wrestler
and bower? (2) In cricket is there a rule
prohibiting the putting on of a fast-bowler
whose deliveries are held to endanger life? —
4190. . , .
(1) There is no recognised champion
wrestler, and the boxing championship has
been vacant since Tunney’s retirement. (2)
No.
Are accumulator fumes injurious to health?
—4161. . .
If adequate ventilation is provided in the
accumulator room, no. It has been suggested
in some quarters that lead poisoning may
result from constantly inhaling the minute
lead particles suspended in the atmosphere,
but no case of this nature has come under
the notice of leading Sydney accumulator
cos. or the Industrial Hygiene branch of the
N.S.W. Department of Health.
Where could, a first-class motor and marine
engineer get instruction iiu aeronautical _ en-
gineering with a view of obtaining a position
with a commercial aircraft co.? —4257.
A course of aerodynamics, including
engines, can be arranged at the Universities,
and a similar course is included in the curri-
culum of Sydney Tech. And one of the
operating cos. may provide an opportunity
to gain experience in aircraft. List of prin-
cipal cos.: Q.A.N.T.A.S., Longreacli, Queens-
land. West Aust. Airways. A.M.P. Buildings,
Perth (W.A.). Larkin Supply Cos., Coode
Is., Melbourne. Aust. National Airways,
Aerodrome, Mascot (N.S.W.). Matthews
Aviation, Ltd., Essendon Aerodrome, Essen-
don (Vic.). Commercial Aviation Cos., Para-
field Aerodrome, Parafield, Adelaide.
The number of volumes in (1) National
Library, Paris, and (2) British Museum?
(3) What is the largest library in the world?
—3998.
According to statistics taken from
“Minerva Jalirbuch der Gelelirten Welt,”
(1) Bibliotheque Nationale, 4,000,000
volumes; (2) British Museum, 3,150,000.
(3) It would be unwise to decide which is
the largest library in the world from the
number of volume’s quoted, as every library
compiles its statistics differently. Some
count, for example, each leaflet or pamphlet
as an individual volume ; others would bind
perhaps 50 pamphlets together and count it
as one volume. Some libraries never discard
a volume; others periodically weed out large
numbers of what they regard as useless
books. As in other things, it is the quality
rather than the quantity which should count
most. These great libraries have not only
collections of printed books, but valuable
collections of ancient manuscripts, papyri,
rare maps, engravings, coins and medals, etc.
It would be impossible to compare these
collections, and the same applies to the
Library of Congress, Washington, which has
3,556,700 volumes.
Brief Answers.
Montrose : Quite sound and a good bonus-
payer. .. .L.L.8.: Take the whole-life.... Shark: It’s
a gamble, and the possible prizes don’t match the
risks. . . .A.8.C.: We have not been able to get that
co.’s balance-sheet; and you can draw your own
conclusions from that.... Lafa: Australian gold bonds
issued in New York are tax-free; but you’ll find
that difficulties are now put in the way of transfer.
.. . . W.1'.0.N.: Schools of instruction in use of sheep-
shearing machinery are conducted by Dangar, Gedye
and Cos., Young-street, and Dalgetys, Miller’s Point
—both Sydney....R.C.: Curtis Brown, 6 Henrietta-
street, Covent Garden, W.C.2 ; John Farquharson, 8
Halsey House, Red Lion Square, W.C.I; and Pinker
and Son, Talbot House, Arundel-street, W.C.2 —all
London... .W.0.F.: Get in toiich with Adams and
Cos., 175 Clarence-street, or Seruttons, 161 Clarence-
street—-both Sydney... ,R. 8.: Communicate with
official sec., Port Moresby, or manager Mulgrave
Central Mill, Gordonvale, N.Q F.H.: See “Angora
Wool Rabbits for Profit,” by Arthur Sainsbury
(4s. 6d.) ; the author is a Maorilander, and the
book deals with the industry in Australia and
M.L E.V.W.: Pat Lawlor, Sussex Chambers,
Panama-street, Wellington, N.Z., is the most likely
person to be interested. .. .R.H.: A wool-classing
course is conducted at the East Sydney Tech.,
Darlinghurst. .. . V.M.G.: Couch grass should be sown
in warm weather after good rain. For a lawn, lib.
of seed is sufficient for about 10 yards square....
8.G.8.: (1) Enrolments in the Architecture Diploma
course at Sydney Tech, are restricted to persons
engaged in the daytime on work related to the
course and possessed of a Leaving Certificate pass
in English, Maths, and Physics. For others
below that standard there is a Diploma Entrance
Qualifying course, covering two years of even-
ing study. (2) Architecture is not in the
correspondence course curriculum.... K.F.: Make
a thick, smooth paste of whiting and: cloudy
ammonia or lemon juice and lay on the ware. Leave
for about five minutes, then wipe off with a cloth
wrung out of warm water. Clean with a little
olive oil well rubbed in till it disappears, and finish
dry with a silk cloth. .. .C.W.8.: (1) Communicate
with State Fisheries Departments. (2) In North
and Central Australia an abo. is permitted to kill
protected birds at any time for food and has the
right to enter any pastoral holding. He would,
however, be liable to prosecution for trespass on
fenced allotments in town areas. (3) “Cost, insur-
ance and freight”... .H.S.: (1) and (2) See answer
to R.D. (3) Wound on a simple home-made winding
machine, in the form of a skein, lightly knotted on
completion of winding. (4) AVhite or light shades.
....Anon: You do not give size of film used in
projection machine. There are two popular sizes
35mm. standard size film, as used in picture theatres,
and 16mm. sub-standard film, as used by amateurs.
F.P.: (1) Difficult to answer in the absence
of particulars; suggest you read Section 6, sub-sec.
10, N.S.W. Workers’ Compensation Act. (2) Only
way to avoid responsibility is to take out a policy.
(3) It would be advisable. .. .G.W.8.: (1) Get in
touch with Oceanic Steamship Cos., 12 Bridge-street,
or Union Cos., 247 George-street—both Sydney. (2)
If you call at the Consulate, 17 O’Connell-street,
Sydney, U.S. Immigration requirements will be care-
fully explained. (3) Preference is given under U.S.
Immigration law to certain relatives of American
citizens and certain specified relatives of persons not
citizens who have been legally admitted for par-
manent residence. .. .Bell: (1) “Points of the Horse,
by Hayes. (2) “Sheep and Wool Industry,” by
Smith and Haile; “Management and Diseases of
Sheep in Australia” and “Classing the Clip,” by
Cowley... .P.R.: Trouble is due to grasshoppers.
Dissolve lib. arsenite of lead in hot water in one
vessel and 41b. molasses in warm water in another
vessel; mix when cool and dilute to 16 gallons.
Then spray lightly, using 75-80 gallons per acre.
At this rate, spray is harmless to sheep. .. .C.F.H.:
jSTo prize R.D.: Write sec. Sericulture Soc., Mrs.
Farquharson, 10 Brady-street, Croydon (N.S.W.)
B.B.: (1) Beam of a fiat-bottomed rowing boat
should be length in feet plus eight, divided by four.
(2) From outside of planking at point of greatest
breadth. (3) Turner and Henderson, Dymocks, and
N.S.W. Bookstall Cos. (4) Try a gun merchant
R.M. : Various methods are applied, such as elec-
trolysis and X-rays; they are jobs requiring expert
hands. See a skin specialist J.P.8.: There is no
certain cure for asthma. Many alleviating drugs
and vaccines are known and in certain selected cases
much good is done. It is a case for a medical
specialist D. 8.: The mine is not working at
present, but shareholders’ interests are being safe-
guarded. There is no prospect of immediate resump-
tion of work. .. . A.V.: In N.S.W., Vic., S.A. and
Tas., hotels close at 6 p.m. ; in Q’land at 8 p.m.,
in W.A. at 9 p.m B.B.: To repair the bridge pro-
perly you would need some sort of clamp to keep it in
place while the glue is drying. A suitable glue
can be got from violin makers, such as Smith and
Cos., 68 Hunter-street, Sydney... .S.R.M.: Write
Dryice, Ltd., 18 Martin-place, Sydney. ■■ ■ .L.A.1.:
Try any of the following: Art Dept., East Sydney
Tech., Darlinghurst; Sydney Art School, Q.V. Build-
ings, George-street; Royal Art Society, 76 Pitt-
street H.M.: Practically no chances for outsiders;
too many experienced men out of work... .F.J.0.D.;
See Mantegazza’s “Physiognomy and Expression”....
CS • (1) You will have to communicate with
Board of Admiralty, Whitehall, London, S.W.I. (2)
Write Royal Air Force, Adastral House, Kingsway,
London, W.C.2 W.G.R.: Mortgagee is entitled to
interest over the whole period for which the mort-
gage has been given, and may refuse to accept
repayment earlier. .. .W.A.H.: Kosciusko was named
by Count Strzeleeki, a Polish explorer, in 1839;
the bare rocks on the summit reminded him of the
cairn on Kosciusko’s grave. Actually the feature
named by Strzeleeki was not the highest, and it is
now called Mount Townshend; the name Kosciusko
was transferred to the highest hummock J.V.b.:
We don’t know. Circulation figures are useless,
anyhow. One paper may be habitually preserved for
thorough home reading, another glanced at and
left in the tram... .R.D.C.: (1) Poor foj the pre-
sent; probably good later. (2) and (4) Ditto,
though not so good. (3) and (7) Excellent. A
the rest, as far as we know them, are either private
concerns whose shares would probably be difficu t
to sell or gambles. The Forest bonds are gambles.
. ...E.L.; Chauvinism is patriotism carried to
excess, jingoism. .. .C.T.J.: Write sec. St. Jo n
Ambulance, Murray-street, Perth, or Fremantle
Citizens’ Ambulance Maxeen: If the matter is
good, the fact of it having been written in pencil
will not prejudice the judges W. J.: No Sydney
o-unmaker stocks any weapon answering to the
description given... .R.M.1.: Depends on condition
of sheep and price of foodstuffs-at present erratic.
A good fattening ration would be lib. to IMb. ot
barley or oats, together with a couple of Pounds o
good hay chaff per head per day, preferably fed
mixed together in a portable feeder. Similar quan-
tities of bran and pollard might be substituted for
the grain. Do not feed a full ration if sheep are
in poor condition. It would be best to start for the
first few days on a quarter ration, and pass on to
half ration, and then a three-quarter ration, until
they are used to hand-feeding. ... (Many others
mailed.)


)
Q
KNOWN THE WORLD OVER TO
MEAN ALL THAT IS BEST IN
BALL & ROLLER BEARING DESIGN,
QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE
The ©CSEF Organisation is of inter-
national character and is the largest Ball and Roller
Bearing concern in the world, offering the most thorough
Anti-friction Engineering Service of to-day. cSCSIF Bearings are
manufactured in 14 great plants, situated in seven different countries, and the
SSCSO 53 Iron Ore Mines, Forests and Steel Mills produce special SCSfF Steel. SCSI?
offers technical advice and information based upon a world experience and upon the findings of the
various SCSIF Research Laboratories, situated in three countries. Wherever there is Industry, there also is
SGSIF ;in every country and State in the world you will find an 3CS \F Sales Office, of which, to-day, there are over 200.
WHAT DOES THIS MEAN TO THE USER OF ANTI-FRICTION BEARINGS?
It means that by specifying SCSOr*** he brings all the knowledge, experience,
resources and service of this great organisation to bear upon his individual
friction problems.
gca?
Single Row,
Non-Filling
Slot Ball
Bearing
©C3F
Double Row,
/
Self-Aligning
Ball Bearing
@C3F
Taper Roller
Bearing
era?
Double Row,
Self-Aligning
Roller Bearing
era?
Single Row
Cylindrical
Roller Bearing
The gfiCS[F Ball Bearing' Co., Ltd.
MELBOURNE: 595 Bourke Street.
Adelaide: William Adams & Co., Ltd.
Brisbane: William Adams & Co., Ltd.
Perth: Unbehaun & Johnstone (W.A.), Ltd.
Hobart: Charles Davis, Ltd.
Launceston: Knight & Peter Bros. Pty., Ltd.
SYDNEY: 45 King Street.
Newcastle: Gray Shedden & Co.
Geelong: J. C. Brown & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Ballarat: J. R. Harrison & Son.
Bendigo: Holland Bros.
Sale: S. Lacey & Sons Pty., Ltd.


AUSTRALIA’
sr*
Ri!
LI
c
□
f:
u
1
“THE AUSTRALIA”
is not a hotel but the hotel. Its guests
have the real satisfaction of being in the
heart of social and commercial activities.
And, further, they gain first-hand acquaintance
with our ideals of punctilious service.
Illustrated booklet
on request.
Telegraphic. Wireless and Cable Address:
“Avstraotel,” Sydney.
THE HOTEL OF THE COMMONWEALTH, SYDNEY.
“in the keart
of tilings
he
Australia
SMOKE-OH!
Many have to sit tight after 6 p.m.
¥ *
Paradoxically, Bradman is always out to
make runs.
¥ ¥
“His wife used to come into hotels after him.”
— Police-court evidence.
H'er idea being, of course, to catch him
on the hops.
¥ ¥
PARADOX.
All day old Sol parades the sky
In shameless nudity.
And when at last chill night draws nigh
He dons the close of day.
¥ ¥
Christmas is over, yet many a man still
looks for a well-filled stocking.
¥ ¥
“The movies give false views of life.”
Films before the eyes?
¥ ¥
“It is humiliating to see the Government of a
great country bowing to outside influences.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
Parliamentary Grovelment.
¥ ¥
EQUINE EQUANIMITY
EXACERBATED.
“While waiting to be entertained at Bendigo
to-d.iy the trotting horse Stylish Huon broke away
from its attendants and, galloping through the rail-
way reserve, collided with a motor cyclist.”
—Melbourne “Herald.”
A Royal Commission should be appointed
to inquire into the negligence of those respon-
IT WAS THE HAIR OF THE OLD DOG THAT BIT HIM.
OLD REPROBATE: “Dunno 'ow it is, Young Peter, but whenever we
meet you always get me a bit merry.”
YOUNG DITTO: “Ish those whiskers o’ yours, Dad. I alwayszh
zhink you’re Chrishmash.”
sible for providing Stylish Huon with amuse-
ment. Even if there were no chorus-girls
or bishops to parade before him, the nearest
Labor member might have been sent for
and induced to utter a few of those promises
which are guaranteed to make a horse laugh.
Or again, an attendant might have repeated
in his hearing the Meteorological Bureau’s
claim that 94.6 per cent, of its weather fore-
casts are correct. Assuming the Royal Com-
mission, after sitting for a year or so, reports
in the expected manner, it will be up to the
R.S.P.C.A. to take action.
B. C.
Palestine Government.
ESSENTIAL CONDITION.
“One crowded hour of glorious life
Is worth an age ivithout a name” r—
Provided you're without the wife
To quiz into your little game.
SENTIMENTAL JOURNEY.
Aged IS.—Billy.
~ 20. —Clarence (Billy having been
dropped as too slow).
„ 23. —Percy. (Clarence was dropped as
too fast.)
„ 24.—Dropped by Percy and decides to
give Billy another chance.
„ 26. —Claude (chiefly on account of his
car).
„ 27. —Her friend Mabel vamps Claude.
„ 28. —Decides that Henry is her Fate
and casts Billy out of her life for
ever and ever.
„ 30. —Marries Billy.
G. E.
¥ ¥
Jack and Jill went up the liill
To fetch a pail of water.
Jack's pants for breath grew short, but still
Jill’s pants were even shorter.
¥ ¥
HOW IT REALLY HAPPENED.
The eminent archaeologist Dinkum Slush
found a highly significant report in an issue
of the Mount Horeb “Guardian,” which was
unearthed at Beersheba recently, grasped
firmly in the mummified hand of a Ilittit?
flapper:—
Sarah, an obese blonde who admitted to 37 years
and gave an address beneath the southern wall of
the city which is a place of refuge for razor gang-
sters, had a dispute the day before yesterday with
her friend Leah, of the same address, which brought
both to the Central Court yesterday, where Solomon,
S.M., was given an opportunity for another of the
j udgments
Read in “Bildad’s Weekly”
“THE MYSTERY OF URIAH THE
HITTITE.”
An entirely new angle on the
sensational David-Ratlisheba scandal.
which are „ rapidly earning him a high reputation
for shrewdness.
“Leah and me each bought a bottle of beer,” the
voluble Sarah explained, “and Leah broke hers. When
I come to I found she’d put the pieces around me,
so as to make me think I’d broke mine.”
This was too much for Leah, who interjected that
Sarah was a liar.
“We will order the bottle to be broken in two,”
said the magistrate
suavely. “And each
claimant can take
half.”
“That’ll do me!”
cried Leah.
“No,” objected
Sarah. “How then
shall I get my money
back on the bottle ?
Let Leah have the
beer—for I am minded
to go on the water-
waggon—-but give me
the bottle!”
“Give unto Sarah
both the bottle and
the beer that is in it,”
was the judgment of
Solomon, S.M. “Verily,
I say to ye that her
care for the money
which is due on the
bottle proves her to be
its rightful owner and
the owner of the beer
withal.”
Later reports pro-
vide a sequel. It
would seem that
Sarah failed to
secure the bottle,
in spite of the
magistrate’s award.
That she was
angry about it is
indicated by the
fact that she made
another appearance
before Solomon on
charges of (1)
riotous behavior;
(2) assaulting a
police officer while
in the execution of
liis duty; and (3)
tearing a police-
officer's uniform,
the property of the
The dismissal from the force of Senior-
Constable Obadiah, on a charge of illegal
conversion to his own uses of one bottle of
beer, also appears to have a bearing upon
the matter.
H. M.
¥ ¥
SUPPLY AND DEMAND.
A thought that has occurred to me
About the growth of Sydney town
Is: Flats trill still keep going up
While flats can still be taken down.
BANE AND ANTIDOTE.
“A girl witness of eight was asked by Judge
Sheridan, ‘What happens to people who tell lies
when they die?’ To which the child answered:
‘They do not go to Heaven.’ The next question was,
‘Where do bad people go when they die ?’ The
child replied, ‘They go under the ground.’
“His Honor then said that the child could not
be sworn, as she had no knowledge of future punish-
ment at all.”— “S. M. Herald
The girl’s lack of spiritual culture was
shown up in a painful light by a boy witness
of seven in an
adjoining court.
Stepping briskly
into the box and
giving his name as
Athanasius Laud-
Smith, he polished
his large spectacles
with deliberation,
replaced them, and,
with a dignified
bow to the Court,
began: “I am a
lifelong believer in
eternal punishment
and a material
Hell. I reject the
evolutionary teach-
ings of Darwin and
Huxley, and view
with abhorrence
t h e theories o f
Spinoza, Kant and
the rest of the
philosophers of ne-
gation. I am at
work on a bro-
chure exposing the
fallacies of Hegel-
i s m. Beelzebub,
Ahriman, Satan,
Sathanas, the
Devil, Old Nick.
Auld Reekie—call
him by what name
you will—is to me
a very real entity.
I accept, in its
entirety, the Bibli-
cal story of Jonah
and the Whale. I
am an. abstainer, a
celibate”
“Swear the witness!” cried the Judge hur-
riedly. “Swear him at once.”
And the case proceeded.
10-2-4.
OUR DITERARY CORNER.
, The Six Most Useless Books.
The trout season being with us once more,
Professor Blob, the eminent anthologist, has
compiled a list of the six most useless books
that Premier Bavin could possibly take with
him on a fishing excursion:—
(1) “Life and Letters of J. T. Lang.”
(21 “How I Held Wentworth, or Holly-
wood from Within,” by Walter Marks.
(3) “North Shore Spirituals,” by W. M.
Hughes (including his Morality Play, “Love
and Peace”).
(4) Horribiloff’s “The Basher” (unexpur-
gated version in the original Russian).
(5) “How to Run a Limousine on Strike
Pay,” by J. S. Garden.
(6) “The Inferiority Complex and How
Premiers May Overcome It,” by a Former
Sufferer.
Bloggs.
THE CONSOLATION PRIZE.
Though folks defame me frightfully,
I hold myself aloof
And scorn their wretched lies of me.
They don’t know half the truth!
¥ ¥
“The main difficulty in the creation of any army
is in finding capable n.c.o.’s.” — “S. M. Herald.”
A matter of finding the I’oar material.
¥ ¥
“When is an alderman like an egg?”— Sydney Su>..
When lie’s full, no doubt.
¥ ¥
DINKUM OILS, LTD.
This company has been formed for the
puVpose of developing the dinkum oil de-
posits of liandwick, Roseliill, Caulfield,
Flemington, etc., 100,000 extraordinary
shares to be issued at once.
Directors:
Abraham Levy, Moses Isaacs and Cohen
McColien.
Solicitors:
Urger, Urger and Urgent.
Bank;
The Grand National.
Professor Headem, the eminent gee-geeologist
and fellow of the Crown and Anchor In-
stitute, strongly recommends this as a sound
investment. Backed by a long experience
of drilling in Long Bay, the professor is
convinced that the oil exists in abundance at
the abovementioned places. Survey tests
reveal that the flats surrounding certain cir-
cular formations always provide heavy yields.
Professor Headem is suffering from a ner-
vous breakdown due to the strain of trying
to compute the possible output in mugs in
lieu of gallons. While looking for more
mugs for the purpose of his investigations
several public officials who had known him
for years interfered and persuaded him to
desist for a while. Communications
addressed to Long Bay may receive attention
if those who are caring for his welfare at
tile moment permit them to reach him
x. k
THE REASON WHY.
Her mouth is like a ’phone exchange.
Don’t think we’re impolite
And mean for size or noise or range —
It’s open, day and night.
ONE BY ONE.
MISS PRETTY : “There’s several men will be miserable when I
marry.”
MISS PLAIN : “Fes, dear, quite likely—but only one at a time.”
Prohibition is just another exhibition of
glass hatred.
¥ ¥
The members of the Byrd Antarctic ex-
pedition keep their liquor on the ice.
HIGH COST OF BLINDNESS.
“James Brown, publican, fined £l5 for trading
after hours.”
If coves like Brown stayed wide awake
Their troubles would be gone.
He sold the John a spot because
He couldn’t spot the John.
D. O.
¥ ?
“The use of pater on the vaudeville stage is still
common.” — Sydney “News.”
And we often find his peroxided mater
there as well.
THE FAITHFULNESS OF CADGER.
JONES : “Janifer has a very faithful lover.”
SMITH: “Yes, my oath! Cadger clings to
her for all she’s worth.”
MOTTO FOR SHEIKS.
“Defendant in the breach-of-promise suit said his
letters were merely of a friendly nature. The jury
gave plaintiff £350 damages.”
Verdicts such as this remind us
When we're courting Rose or Sue,
Not to leave signed screeds behind us
That a Court may misconstrue.
HAPPY NEW YEAR.
Of all the pleasures of the glad New Year,
Can any match the first backsliding beer
That registers the powerful allure
Of wicked ways ice promised to abjufe?
For me, I here confess, such joy I’ve found
In high intentions toppling to the ground,
That 1 regret, as a few more I break,
The resolutions I forgot to make.
MACESS.


■A
cr..;i:7w
a
a <*
«
I*l
feA“
S\
Sill
3
Say
Mpa=^
3*
rzi
tej
t3T7
f*
m
*
_?i
n
f
a
»kJ
V
fZjti
8 Z'Taih
m
No. 99 SET. Contains the essentials for a
perfect “Valet” shave the razor,
strop and three blades in leather-
ette-covered case
3/6
Managing Agents for Australia * —
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181 Clarence ftreet, Sydney.
New Zealand Agents:
VAN STAVEREN BROS., Ltd., Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch.
“What does that mean—‘Strops
itself’?”
“There’s a stropping device built into
the head of the razor —strop just slips
through the razor head!”
“Yes—and then?”
“Then all you do is run the Valet Auto-
Strop razor to and fro. Click, click—
and the blade is instantly sharpened
without taking it out of the frame.”
“Surely that sharpens only one side
of the edge?”
“No, no both sides are stropped
alternately.”
“Should be pretty sharp when
you’ve finished.”
“Sharp! It’s the keenest razor edge
there is—and it lasts for months.”
‘Stropping take long?”
“Ten seconds each morning, and you
get the same principle right through
the Valet range: 3/-, 10/- or 22/6.
All dealers sell them.”
“Good. I’ll get one to-day.”
Pity ti ie poov l&ttd luhher
/
//
•9 m §
Illustration shows Moth
with wings folded.
DITY the man who travels on country roads instead of through the
air! Pity the man who supposes that piloting a ’plane needs
long training! Pity the man whc imagines that flying is only for
the rich!
Because—any man or woman with sound physique and decent sight
can qualify for a Pilot s Certificate after about twelve hours tuition.
And any family that can afford two cars can afford a Gipsy Moth.
Let us tell you in detail what light-’plane ownership would mean to
your pleasures, your business and your pocket. Let us send you
complete data—including the full story of the de Havilland Gipsy
Moth which travelled 51,000 miles with a sealed engine, at only
Id. a mile for petrol and oil—and which needed only £7/2/11 to
recondition the engine like new when the seals were eventually broken!
Write to-day. (Addresses below.)
HAVILLACTg
MOTH
tf
DATA for the CURIOUS:
2-Seater, with dual control and with steel body constructed specially
for Australian conditions.
Speed, over 100 m.p.h. Petrol,
about 20 m.p.g. Oil, 1000-1500
m.p.g. Width with wings
folded, 9ft. lOin. Height, Bft.
9Jin. Length 23ft. llin. One
person can handle the machine
on the ground alone and take
off alone. Any small level pad-
dock is a suitable landing
ground.
PRICE: £825. —Ready to fly away from any
diome, complete with all equipment, registration
Certificate of Airworthiness.
capital city aero-
and Government
.
$
THE DE HAVILLAND AIRCRAFT, PTY., LTD., Whiteman Street, South Melbourne, 5.C.5. DEALERS: "Qantas,” Ltd., BRISBANE and LONGREACH, QUEENS-
LAND; Macßobertson Miller Aviation Co., Ltd., ADELAIDE, S.A.; Lee and Chisholm Bros. Motors, SWAN HILL, VICTORIA; Matthews Aviation Pty., Lt ox
1860, G.P.0., MELBOURNE. ,


11l
1
A
7*
■/a
///'
At,
m
i'
m
UAliJit-
«*«.
J,
um
ii
MORLtY
*#MKVOiA
9t
\
(W
&
\<j.
""n ngiu
THE MARRIAGE OF
¥HE “WHITE HORSE”
“WHITE HORSE” is Real Old Scotch. First matured
and then blended, it is again matured and re-blended,
so that the whisky becomes properly married. This
marrying of “WHITE HORSE” is a very lengthy process
and the result is a right noble spirit of subtle and dis-
tinctive aroma and bouquet, soft, smooth and very pleasing
to the palate, without a trace of kick or bite.
As a heart tonic and digestive, “ WHITE HORSE” stands
supreme. It is the brand most favoured by Scotsmen in
their own country and they are the greatest connoisseurs
of whisky. Could you make a wiser choice when choosing
whisky for yourself?
Scotch
Screw-cap bottles —no corkscrew required.


IT ISN’T A
MAGNAVOX
IT ISN’T A
. DYNAMIC
kr"
THE ORIGINAL DYNAMIC SPEAKER
Australia’s Fastest Selling Speaker A Leader in All States
Dynamic Unit A.C. Model
£7/15/-
Dynamic Unit D.C. Model
£5/15/-
“Your Radio pleasure
depends on the Speaker
Demonstration will Convince You.
Obtainable All Radio Dealers
s
Cruising to
JAVA and
SUMATRA
First-class round fare to Belawan
Deli (Sumatra), calling at Java ports,
Singapore and Penang: From Brisbane
and Sydney, £99; from Melbourne,
£lO5.
The K.P.M. invites you to wonder and wander in Java and
Sumatra, islands of exotic attractions.
Glorious days at sea, the comforts and conveniences of the
great Liners Nieuw Holland and Nieuw Zeeland will be a
delightful holiday for you.
The steamer is your hotel for the round voyage of seven weeks.
Full particulars from
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY
(K.P.M. Line),
255 George Street, Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., 11l William Street, Melbourne; Dalgety & Co., Brisbane;
Elder, Smith & Co., Adelaide and Perth.
if any illustration in “THE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
KiTZ'S
WIDER
s
Kitz’s Sparkling Cider
The finest drink with meals, as it
aids digestion and prevents acidity.
Dr. D. T. Fernie, of London, states:— L -
Cider is not only the most wholesome and
hygienic of all drinks, but is a preventive
against and a remedy for
Stone, Gravel, Gout, Obesity
and Fermentative Indigestion.
Agents in all States.
HEAD OFFICE: MELBOURNE.
Pen and Picture
The
STATE
THEATRES
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
Shadow Shows
Some common objections to the talkie as
compared with the silent: (1) l liegl '
ful scenery and open spaces tend to
scranoed for interiors, so that the recoidii b
machine can hear better. (2) The Russian
princess (etc.) ruins the illusion by talking
with a strong American accent. (6) ine
angel-child comes through as an unnatural
husky, cheap phonograph voice. (4) fhe
American male, coaxing when love-making,
and female, spiteful when not pleased, are
“turrible” when audible. (5) So is the tinnet
music which has suddenly pushed many hun-
dreds of Australian musicians out ot a ]ob.
(61 And a vast proportion of the talk is
simply not heard. Nos. 3, 5 and 6 may vanish
as machines improve. After all, the art
only in its infancy. Nos. 2 and 4 are up to
us to improve, by making instead of impol t-
ing films. But for the moment it is a pretty
heavy indictment.
“Shiraz” (British Dominions) is out of
the ordinary in plot and thrills. It is woven
SEETA DEVI,
in “Shiraz.”
around India’s
arc liitectural
pride, the
Taj Mah a 1,
and is acted
by Indians of
talent in the
locality of the
old story of
the beautiful
Indian slave
wh o became
the adored wife
of Emperor
Shah Jelian.
He raised the
glorious monu-
ment to her
memory. The
movie may
have an addi-
tion or two, but
it is accept-
able, and any-
one particular
enough to
fault custom
or costume will
be up against
Himansu Rai, an expert historically who
supervises and plays the name part. Glimpses
of some of India’s marble ’alls and proces-
sions of draped elephants, camels and horses
are thrown in for spectacular weight. There
is a languorous movement about the film
which heightens rather than lessens interest,
and does not bore as it would in most pre-
sentations. The photography alone is worth
seeing.
“They Had to See Paris” (Fox) brings
Will Rogers to Australia. It is an impor-
tation that may tempt even the bored to
throw. up his Akubra. Rogers is a choice
comedian. No fallabout, no slapstick; just
silence interspersed with occasional wise-
cracks. Perhaps the picture was written
for him; if it was not he must be a better
comedian even than this Showman is pre-
pared to give him credit for being. He plays
pretty well perfectly the part of Pike Peters,
owner of a small-town garage, who strikes
fortune through a gusher and permits his
wife to drag him and their near-adult daugh-
ter and son off to Paris to get “background.”
There he is the faux pas personified. He
brags. about his home town, he is crudely
American, and yet he never seems to overdo
it. The picture is a generous satire upon
both the American new-rich and the Euro-
pean new-poor. Generosity is its most plea-
sing feature—so many attempts at satire
fail because good humor is not at the back
of them. The Russian dukes, the impecuni-
ous French aristocrats are made beautifully
laughable, but so is the family of Pike. On
the. ot'her hand, there is a duke that you
begin by laughing at and end by heartily
liking; and the same applies to the Rogers
version of Peters. Some passages are up-
roarious, notably those arising from the
soiree, the guest-list of which Mrs. Peters
brings to Pike: “The Grand Duke of Wheres-
this, 3000; the Count de Whosit, 540;
Padoffski Pillsuds, 300; Pullispantsoff Des-
part, 50.” Pike: “What’s all these num-
bers?” Mrs. Pike: “Oh, they’re what we’re
paying them to come here.” Pike: “What!
Paying them for eating our food?” Mrs.
Pike: “Yes, of course. It is done.” Pike:
“I like the sound of this Despart guy. Who's
he?” Mrs. Pike: “Oh, he is a poet.”
Dramatically, the story ends conventionally
—the family returning to the States, sadder
and not much Aviser folk. But even when
it is most conventional Rogers still has art
enough to keep it above the rut.
The more this paper sees of Rin-tin-tin
the less it feels inclined to accept the cur-
rent estimation of the art and intelligence
of the average human screen actor. If a
dog is able to convey such a satisfying im-
pression of being a rational being there
is no great merit in an actor being able
to do the same thing. Rin’s reactions are
obviously automatic. He obeys the instruc-
tions of the unseen producer without having
the foggiest conception of what the plot is
about. Yet he is able to register fear, fight
and joy quite as convincingly as Greta
Garbo. Hence the inference is that Rin
brings to his job precisely as much grey
matter as Vilma Banky. He gets a dish
of stewed meat as a reward while Vilma
gets 100,000 dollars per annum. That
appears to be the only difference.. The above
remarks are incidental to a discussion of
‘‘Frozen River,” a Warner Bros, part-talking
production. “Frozen River” doesn’t need
discussion, however. It is the usual stirring
story of the dog’s fidelity set in the usual
icescape of Alaska, and is well up to sample.
“The Saturday Night Kid” (Paramount)
is another Clara Bow version of Sell-sacri-
fice, or She Takes the Blame.’ Sa long as
Clara sticks to the loud-mouthed little hoyden
with the heart of gold and doesn t get any
dagger marks outside the edges of a bathing
costume, she is on safe ground with the less
sophisticated flappers. Whether Clara can
act probably doesn’t matter. Here, working
in the Ginsberg emporium, she threads a way
through a clutter of ain’ts and foggy slang to
the position where her lover thinks she is a
thief. She has, however, only to slap a face
to convince her adorer that she is innocent.
Then she can throw herself romantically into
his arms, and they’re still kissing by the time
you’ve fought your way over protesting
admirers to the exit.
There are good laughs in “Welcome
Danger” (Paramount), which did so well in
the scheduled week’s showing at Sydney
State that it was switched over to the Hay-
market for a longer run. It has Harold Lloyd
his horn-rims and quite presentable voice. It
also has Barbara Kent as a love-interest foil
who is good enough to overshadow even Lloyd
at times. Situations are typically Lloyd and
frequently boisterous. The picture’s best
arises after Lloyd has accidentally arrested
an escaping prisoner. Then the police, faced
with the job of getting rid of the ass, give
him the finger-prints of one Thorne, a civic
reformer, telling him that they belong to the
Dragon, leader of gome opium smugglers.
The situation is rich in possibilities and
they're carefully exploited up to and past
the inevitable point where the Dragon turns
out to be Thorne himself. Compared with the
rush and skelter of the old Lloyd silent
movies, the talkie tends to drag. The slower
tempo comes from the necessity of Lloyd
doing the regulation amount of talking, and
mostly the burst of laughter lias died down
seconds before the next rib-tickler is sprung
The comedy, however, has plenty of snap,
and is a pleasant antidote after an overdose
of Clara Bowtion.
The Inky Way
“I’ve got so used to seeing The Bulletin
everywhere that I’ll be most surprised if 1
don’t find Peter reading it when I reach the
Gate.” —John D. Green.
“O. W. Waireki”: The managers of the
two Gisborne (M.L.) movie houses had a
row with the local Herald over charges,
and withdrew their advts. Then the movie
people turned out a weekly of their own,
featuring principally film programmes, and
sent it by post to Herald subscribers. Ad-
vertisers eagerly bought space, and at time of
writing the Herald is sourly watching the
movie men not only advertising their wares,
but actually making money doing so.
“Captain Nemo”: The Dominion, the
Windy City’s morning paper, has thought
of a bonus scheme for its staff. A quid
is awarded for the best special article each
month, the best report gathers £1 and the
four choicest local pars, bring five bob each.
There was also a quid for the best sugges-
tion made to the editorial department, but
this was suddenly withdrawn —nobody seems
to know why.
“Alfred O’Toole” : Those concerned in the
proposed book duty might consider this.
When C. J. de Garis decided to establish an
Australian publishing house for Australian
authors, the books to be printed in Aus-
tralia by Australians, and ran a Novel Com-
petition to kick it off, it was decided to
publish the best 20 books. I was included.
Three months later I received a letter stat-
ing that it had been decided to close down
the publishing house, because it was impos-
sible, with the Australian costs of production
so high, to make a profit on a novel at
6s. for the Australian market. Somebody
ought to verify this statement and hand a
copy of it to Mr. Scullin.
“Chizzy”: Aerial journalism has com-
menced in the Shivery Islands. N.Z. Motor
Life has changed its name to Wings, add-
ing the old name as an afterthought. The
change costs another 6d. per copy. Another
Auckland journal came out at the same time
also called Wings, but it has had to call
itself the N.Z. Air Journal. Wellington had a |
fly with a black-covered magazine called
Contact, but the color proved prophetic;
issue number two never appeared.
“Mac”: This could happen only in Aus-
tralia. Reared in the bush, starting as small-
district correspondent to a small daily, I
worked through the usual jobs on various
country papers till eight years ago, when I
got a city newspaper job. I’ve been on the
city Inky Way ever since, and begin to feel
I’ve forgotten what side of a horse to climb
up. On the other hand, a cobber, bred in
the city, brought up on city newspaper ink,
recognised in Melbourne as a first-class news-
paper man, went from city work to the bush
10 years ago because he conscientiously be-
lieved that to get where he wanted to go in
Australian journalism he’d have to possess a
personal knowledge of the Outback. When,
after a few years, he decided he had that
experience, he tried to get back to a city
post. He failed, and in spite of repeated
efforts still works on a country paper and
looks doomed to stop there.
The first official acknowledgment of the
“Sun’s” purchase of the “Guardian” was the
sudden transfer of F. W. (“Bill”) Tonkin
from the editorship of the “Telegraph Pic-
torial” to the managing editorship of the
other daily. Tonkin, one of the white-haired
boys of the “Sun’’ group, graduated from
the position of district reporter, became
editor of the “Sunday Sun” and then was
placed in charge of the “Sun” cable service
in London. At the end of his term there
he came to Australia in the Renown with
the Yorks, and toured Australia with them
as special correspondent. After a short spell
as editor of the “Sunday Sun” he relieved
Del McCay as editor of the daily “Sun,”
and when the Denison crowd took over the
old “Telegraph” he went there to edit. Vol
Molesworth becomes assistant managing
editor of the “Guardian.” Clyde Packer
will stay with “Smith’s.”


Hanking, Public Companies, etc,
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
'MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares ... .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares .. . . .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/-per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Bbitish Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Beading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends., use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
W.\e
s
Jlegfete
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA'S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
Übe Dominion.
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion" is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.
PRICE 3d
Contains everything a woman needs to know
Shipping, etc.
Sail for
Honolulu
on
February 6
WHETHER on board the liner
en route for Honolulu or holi-
daying on the Sunny South
Sea Isle, your enjoyment is assured.
For Hawaii is a world-famous
holiday resort, whilst the vessels
engaged in this tour the Niagara
and Aorangi—are imposingly large,
wide-decked and splendidly fitted for
pleasure.
Last Summer Excursion Tour—via
Auckland and Suva:
£75 First Saloon; £55 Second
(return).
Leaving FEBRUARY 6.
Union Steam Ship Co.,
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne, C.l.
AUSTRALASIAN
ROYAL MAIL LI NE
BURNS-PHILP
TOURS
I A \l A (The Wonderland
of the East).
THE IDEAL HOLIDAY TRIP. JAVA OFFERS SOME-
THING FOR EVERY TASTE. INTERESTING PEOPLE.
QUAINT CUSTOMS. SMOOTH WATER VOYAGE.
WONDERFUL SCENERY.
Regular monthly sailings by the favorite vessels
“MARELLA” (7500 tons) and “MALABAR” (5000 tons).
The Beautiful Solomons
Full of interest and romance and
situated only seven days’ steaming n.-e.
of Sydney. The comfortable and
popular S.S. “MATARAM” sails from
Sydney on February 5, and six-weekly
thereafter, visiting 30 picturesque
Ports.
ROUND TRIP WEEKS.
FARE £4l
Write for Pamphlet No. 52/S to
BURNS, PHILP AND
COMPANY, LTD.,
7 Bridge Street,
Sydney.
El
r
' w
bank of N£W south wales
ESTABLISHED 1817
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
s
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
588 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Dills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Queensland’s Largest
Home-Read Daily
N e wspaper
Tshe
“BRISBANE COURIER”
Unequalled in circulation the “Brisbane Courier” gives to
advertisers the most effective coverage in City, Suburbs and
Country.
Tested campaigns have proved the “Courier” to yield 75 per
cent, of returns.
Carries more advertising than two other Brisbane dailies
combined.
FIRST IN CIRCULATION, COVERAGE, ADVERTISING
AND INFLUENCE.
Published by the Brisbane Newspaper Co., Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Rep.: Robt. D. Fisber, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85007.
Shijiping, ecc.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
iEuripides . . 15,000 tons, Jan. 28
*Nestor . . 15,000 „ Feb. 24
tßunic . . 12,500 ~ Feb. 25
JDemosthenes 11,500 ~ Mar. 15
tCeramic . . 18,500 ~ March 25
*First class only. p'Cabin” class only.
JFirst and third class.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Joint
Agents
SPLENDID CHEAP SERVICE
Via Suez Canal.
FAST OIL BURNERS
Fares to London from £3B.
To Colombo from £22.
Special Excursion Return Tickets to
Colombo issued from Sept, to Feb., £32-
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
SPACIOUS DECKS—DECK CABINS—EXCELLENT
MENU—CINEMA—DANCE MUSIC REPRODUCED
WITH ELECTRIC AMPLIFIERS—
CANVAS SWIMMING BATH
Freight Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Jo-int Passenger Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Tel • 86701. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON St.CO.,
Tel.: 87512. 247 George Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
clue Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR— Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/6/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CIIALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart ParkerliM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as ner daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LI MIT 69
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
WITH
his purchase of space
in “The Telegraph”
the advertiser acquires
the permanent interest
of an organisation
containing experts on
every aspect of the
printing business.
AND-
both reader and pur-
chaser appreciate the
workmanship.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co. Ltd.
Queen Street,
Brisbane.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for me original.


l
K: 7(1
DESIGN APPEARING ON C.M.A. LABELS.
COPYRIGHT
LEWELLYN BIRCHALL ATKINSON,
1919.
«£ESBS
D
WIRES
Trade
and
HEPtH
p*
m
La
& CABLES
Mark
Agents in N.S.W. and Queensland for
BRITISH INSULATED CABLES LTD
“COR A LINE”
Soldering Paste
'Jke thxJt~
SiMp&cl<A& SoCdshwig
Packed in Jib. Tins
Will not corrode the
most delicate work
The best flux for BRASS, TIN,
COPPER, IRON and LEAD
Support Australian
Industry
COPPER
Wires
Cables
Rods
Bars
Strips
ALUMINIUM
Wires
Cables
Rods
Bars
Strips
WILLIAM ADAMS € COMPANY
LIMI T g P in-
175 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
93 ALBERT STREET
BRISBANE
17 BOLTON STREET
NEWCASTLE


Effortless control
combined with
visible charm
are bringing to
Oakland Owner-
ship those who
seek the distinctive
r
Cl-'
■
m
m
OAiaAND
ś
HERE is something
refreshing about Oak-
land that appeals to the
motorist who requires
the extraordinary whose
tastes run to the distinctive,
the charming, the modish.
Oakland is a car radiant
with vigor and charm —as
colorful as the moment de-
mands. Motoring is a tire-
less pleasure with Oakland’s
improved type steering
mechanism its new, large
diameter, slender rim steer-
ing wheel —adjustable driver’s
seat in the closed models
General motors
(Australia) PTY. LTD.
‘Brisbane - Sydney - Melbourne
Adelaide - Perth.
and its stout internal four-
wheel brakes that spell
security and safe driving under
all conditions.
Men know what a fine
car it is mechanically ! Fine
motor car design is typified
by a smooth, silent engine;
by a dynamically balanced,
counter-weighted crankshaft;
exclusive patented rubber-
cushioned engine mountings;
harmonic balancer; accurately
balanced “line of drive.”
Your Oakland dealer will
be only too happy to let
you take the wheel for an
hour a wheel built for
dainty hands as for a strong,
firm grip you will then
be able to feel for yourself
the ease of handling, the
speed and power which
Oakland places at your
service.
He will explain the General
Motors Warranty and the
service facilities. He will tell
you of the convenient pay-
ment scheme available to you
under the G.M.A.C. Terms
Plan.
PRICES from /410.
It's a GENERAL MOTORS Car— look inside and note the difference l


Repairs.
“Our Hands Make Good Arms”
Firearms sent C.O.D.
RELIABLE ENGLISH HAMMERLESS
12-GAUGE GUNS.
Holloway & Naughton, £l7/10/-, £2O, £25,
£32/10/- and £65. Cashmore, £2O; Bone-
hill, £2O; Webley and Scott, £2O; Claborough
and Johnston, £22/10/- and £65.
Both barrels full choke, chambered for 2fin.
Some 3in. These guns are specially made for
me to suit Australian conditions.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Fireanns,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
’Phone MA3540,
1438 Elizabeth Street (near Market
Street), Sydney.
“Fishing Tacicle to Taclclc Fishing.”
You must try this
LIGHT BEER
RESCH ’S
PILSENER
A Drink to Delight You.
W. W. GREENER
GUNS
W. W. GREENER LTD., Birmingham
Wholesale Australian Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.,
405-07 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, C.l.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Backed for barrels of money in the New
Year’s Gift at Randwick, Vaals came in a
bad last. Saddled up for a division of the
Gold Cup at his very next start,
the handsome chestnut was in front in a
few strides, and was never off the bit to
win by lengths from Prime Don (11 to 2)
and Roley (8 to 1) ; and he went out at
10 to 1. Pike, who didn’t ride him at Rand-
wick, had the mount at Moorefield, and it
made a difference, but not so much as all
that. In Monday’s “S. M. Herald” it is ex-
plained that when the animal “finished half
a furlong last” at Randwick he “encoun-
tered a blinding the dust raised.” If the
public had known that it would not have let
him drift to 12 to 1 on Saturday. No doubt
the stable commission was heavy at head-
quarters and only light on the suburban
course; all the same, there should have been
an inquiry after one performance or the
other.
Ascalon (12 to 1) scored nicely in the
other division of the Gold Cup from Casque
d’Or (4 to 1) and Troilus (15 to 1).
When William Kelso had her this daughter
of Sarchedon—Galtee Princess used to be in
trouble over the last bit of six furlongs, but
now she runs out a mile as well as did her
half-brother Booster and her half-sister
Chatterbox. She was ridden on this occa-
sion by Coutts, the Kelso jockey.
• • • • • *
The Moorefield Handicap, the race of
next importance, also went to an outsider —
Promara (16 to 1), a mare by Promised
Land—Narara Maid. She hit the front
early and stayed there—many a 10-furlong
handicap Is won in this way at Moorefield.
Consistent Frances Cyllene (7 to 1) was
second, and the favorite Vigne third. The
clock recorded 2min. 6|sec., which is excep-
tionally fast for the Kogarah track.
Gay Ballerina (6 to 4) showed that she
is in good shape for the A.J.C. Adrian Knox
Stakes by clearing away from the others
in a division of the Three-year-old Handi-
cap; and she carried 9st. 121 b. Malvina (7
to 4), another candidate for “the fillies’
Derby” at Randwick, Collected the second
division. She had 161 b. less than the
Maoriland-bred flier and took a second longer
(lmin. 17sec.) to cover the six furlongs;
but perhaps a mile will suit her better. She
is by Tippler—Joan Clare.
There were 12 races at Moorefield and the
same number at a rival pony meeting. For
a Novice Handicap at another pony meeting
three days before 75 horses were nominated,
and it would cost at least £4 10s. a week
to keep each one going. It’s a mystery
where all the money comes fi'om.
For Randwick on Saturday and Monday .
Challenge Stakes: Vaals ; next Remora.
January Handicap: Octember; next,
Baverwrack or Tarapunga.
Paddington Handicap : Patadawn; next,
Lipari. .
Adrian Knox Stakes: Gay Ballerina,
next, Malvina. .
Anniversary Handicap: John Buchan;
next, Octember or Baverwrack.
* * * *
Lucky Card followed up her Ragot Handi-
cap victory by annexing the Anniversary
Handicap at Caulfield on Saturday. She gave
Mentone trainer Ned O’Dwyer a leg-m tor
a double, which Lucie Manette completed by
capturing the concluding event. These are
perhaps the fittest horses in Victoria at
present. The aptly-named Lucky Card
(Lucknow —Cardinalis) is distinguished by
staying ability; Lucie Manette has risen to
the top flight of local sprinters. Badger does
the principal riding for O’Dwyer now that
Scanlon is en route for France ; he displayed
good judgment in handling Lucky Card and
Lucie Manette. Lucie belongs to A. T.
(“Bert”) Clark, whose elder brother was
so long associated with Lionel Robinson in
English and Australian racing ventures.
At one stage of the Anniversary Handi-
cap wagering, Nawallali claimed preference
over Lucky Card ; but closing quotes revealed
Lucky Card at 7 to 2. a point shorter than
CUPBOARD LOVE.
GOLFER (just learning): “Terrible lot of birds about, boy.”
CADDIE: “Yairs — s’pose they’re followin’ us up for the worms.”
the Magpie gelding’s price. Nawallali began
to hang out after leaving the straight, and
for half a furlong he climbed dangerously.
Making spasmodic dashes at the leaders, he
closed a perplexing display by dropping to
the rear. It took 2min. 231 sec. to run the
11 furlongs—(the course record is 2min.
18|sec.) and the slow pace ruined the pros-
pects of Sir Roy. Belle Gallante supplanted
Pendennis at the straight entrance, but the
Woodend Cup winner resumed control, only
to strike his colors to Lucky Card, who
scored brilliantly.
Steeplechasing is taboo at Caulfield dur-
ing certain summer months. Jumping
jockeys are compensated by being afforded
exclusive mounts in events like the Rowena
Welter. For this race 20 horses started,
Doradus (list. 101 b.) being top weight.
Standard Bearer, trained by Jack H'olt for
J. M. Niall, was first choice, having ousted
the provincial star, Standard Gold,
from favoritism; bar these, 10 to 1 could
be obtained. The imported stallion Phonic
narrowly defeated Black Garter, with
Salonia only a head farther off. Phonic went
out at 12 to 1, the other place-getters being
at 20 to 1. James Scobie hopes to win a
good hurdle race with Black Garter, which
Ludovitch gelding he acquired when on a
visit to Mount Gambier last year.
Unpalatable Caulfield results from the
viewpoint of backers were the Holiday
Stakes victory of Golden Lullaby (20 to 1)
and the triumph of Spearlette (25 to 1) in
the Koakaribb Trial. The juvenile event
was thought to be a race between Neoxena.
Chaene and The Black Crow. As often
happens to S. A. Rawdon prads, Neoxena
got away badly and remained in the ruck.
Chaene overhauled the pacemaker, Beautify,
a lovely filly by Beau Fils, who will be
heard of to greater effect in the near future.
In a ding-dong finish, Golden Lullaby pre-
vailed by a head from The Black Crow, who
was only half a head in advance of Chaene.
Winner is trained by W. Foulsham, who won
a Doncaster Handicap on Eurobin and other-
wise demonstrated his skill as a jockey some
years ago. She is by Blankney 11., sire of
the 1922 Maribyrnong Plate heroine Lady
Reynard.
Burnewang (Sunstar-Shrove), a hand-
some chestnut stallion, trained by Lou
Robertson for A. G. Hunter, made his
second public appearance in the Koakaribb
Trial. As soon as the stable moved he
shortened with lightning rapidity from 7
to 1 to 9 to 4. Burnewang missed the jump-
out, and was never prominent. He is diffi-
cult to train, and may retire to the stud
without racing honors. Spearlette, the
winner, is by Spearhead, and belongs to
V.R.C. committeeman E. L. Baillieu.
* * * *
For Moonee Valley on Saturday:—
William Reid Stakes: Mollison; next,
Grcenline.
Caldermeade Handicap: Easby; next,
Elarby.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Meaty was the Sydney Stadium scrap
between Andy Anderson (lOst. of
America, and Frank Van (list. 21b.). Up
to the end of the fifth round Van looked
like finishing it any minute by a knockout.
In the sixth the American tore in like a
wild cat and slowed the local man up. Van
came again in the eighth, dropping the
visitor twice, and although Anderson scored
in the tenth he was down again before the
round ended. The thirteenth was a tornado,
and Anderson’s strength began to tell. Van
came out very weak for the fifteenth, and
after he had been down twice referee Wallis
stopped proceedings and crowned the game
Yank. It was some time before Van was
able to leave the ring.
The Ins and Outs
The butter-fingered propensities wliich
had apparently been overcome on the team’s
southern tour returned to the Queenslanders
in their match against South Australia in
Brisbane. The only batsman really at home
was Victor Richardson, who played a -slash-
ing 112, including a 6, yet the) side reached
365, Oxenham (3-76) and Hornibrook (3-
79) setting the best figures. Hurwood did
not show up on the slow wicket. Queens-
land’s batting was worse than the fielding.
Seven had gone for 171 at stumps on Satur-
day night, though Hubbard (4l) and Hig-
gins (45) set a good example, and they were
all out for 196 (Wall 3 for 37 and Whitfield
3 for 49). S. Aus. went in again with the
game in hand.
“Damocles’’: The fateful moment approaches
when the three doomsters appointed by the
Board of Control must declare the personnel
of the Australian XI for England. The
result is to be promulgated on January 30,
and in the meantime strenuous attempts,
headed by the selectors themselves, are being
made to permit the selection of 10 players
instead of 15: As far as the public is con-
cerned, opinion is overwhelmingly in favor
of the larger number going. The board made
short work recently of objections to its
appointment of an extra official to accompany
the team. The least it can do is to fall in
with the wishes of the public and the players
in the matter of the extra man.
* * * *
“Fitzscray”: It is always possible to
raise a rumpus at Melbourne Cricket Ground,
and the match between the touring Westra-
lians and a Victorian second eleven provided
the latest. Westralia’s fast bowler, Hal-
combe, was no-balled six times in his fii’st
and last over, bowling 14 balls before he
completed his turn to the satisfaction of
umpire Barlow, who was not at the bowling
crease, but at square leg, opposite the bats-
man. It is a long time since anything of
the sort has been done, and one wonders why
the umpire at the bowling crease did not
think it necessary to “call” the trundler.
Halcombe’s delivery has more than once been
questioned, and this probably accounted for
his omission from the Trial match earlier
in the season.
* * * *
“Lancaster Park”: Maoriland made a
poor fist of the first Test against the English
cricketers, going down by 8 wickets. The
wicket favored bowlers throughout, and the
All Blacks, batting first, could gather only
112, Allom (3-17) having the best bowling-
figures. England followed with 181, Duleep-
sinhji top-scoring with 47. Blunt (3-17) was
the best of a consistent lot of trundlers, and
got both English wickets in the second inn;
ings of the tourists, in which Duleepsinhji
again starred with 33 n.o. Four changes
have been made in the M.L. side for the
second Test at Wellington.
* * * *
“Bouragi”: If this one hadn’t been told
by a missionary I would have been doubtful
about it. The Melanesian Mission in the
Solomons encourages cricket in its schools,
two innings a side, and two and a lialf hours
allowed for the lot! At one of these matches
—there are no boundaries —the ball was hit
into the sea, which is plentifully peopled
with sharks and barracouta thereabout. The
square leg fieldsman naturally hesitated about
going in after it, and while he pondered 56
runs, the necessary for the batting side to
win, were ticked off. Then the rest of the
field frogmarched the hesitating one to the
edge of the reef and threw him, in, an inci-
dent which seems to have brought to an end
a perfect day.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: When the meteoric start in
Sydney cricket of the Leeton lad A. All-
sopp was cut short by the guileful Grimmett
in the Trial match, the connoisseurs, after
remarking that he would never succeed
against googly bowling, consigned him to the
discard. He soon showed the stuff he was
made of when, a week or so later, he scored
77 and 73 against the South Australians,
including Grimmett, at Adelaide. In first-
class cricket this season Allsopp has scored
576 runs in 10 innings (one n. 0.) with an
average of 64. He is willing to learn, and
seizes every chance to do so, as his im-
provement in style and performance in
every successive match indicates.
(Continued on page 37.)
The Kangaroos won their last match in
England against “Wales” by 26-10 (6 tries
4 goals to 2 tries and 2 goals). The game
was played at Wembley in the Rugby Union
South. “Wales” consisted of Welsh-born
ex-Union players employed by the Lancashire
and Yorkshire Northern Union teams. The
Kangaroos played 35 matches, won 25, lost
8 and drew 2.
* * * *
The international athletic meeting on the
grass at Sydney Cricket Ground on Saturday
was responsible for some new Australian
records. Jim Carlton, who has cracked
evens for the furlong, set a new standard
with 21 3-10 sec., beating Grehan’s Austra-
lasian record by 3-10 sec., and then equalled
his own figures in the' 100 with 9 4-ssec.
Golding, the N.S.W. middle-distance runner,
put up a great spin in the quarter, cutting
Nigel Barker’s 1905 record of 48isec. by
a fifth of a second. Dr. Peltzer, who evi-
dently felt the heat intensely, won the
half-mile in lmin. 56 4-ssec., or only a
second worse than W. Hunt’s Australasian
figures. Another good performance was that
of the American champion Lermond, who
won the mile in 4min. 26sec. —fair going
fpr the stifling day. The international relay
of 1430 yards was won by the visiting team,
Lermond, Peltzer and the latter’s protegS,
G. Emton.
THEN AND NOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ took 20 minutes to make one run ; he was
in an hour for 10, and took two hours to reach 25.’
Time was when the rattle of ball upon pickets
Bespoke the succession of boundaries swift,
When sight of the figures that flashed be-
tween wickets
Gave visible token that batsmen could
shift;
Time was when the crackle of comment
excited
Ran round the spectators like tinder
ablaze,
And cuts that enchanted and drives that
delighted
Won constant applause in those palmier
days.
Now a leaden ball is slowly
Patted down, patted down,
In a silence almost holy
On a turf grown brown.
Time was when the ball seemed alive with
the cunning
That leaped from a bowler’s keen wit to
his arm,
And breath not expended on cheers for good
running
Was like to be lost in a gasp of alarm
When wickets were shaved, or a catch
sharply dived for
From some daring hitter, deterred not a
scrap
Though every over seemed neatly contrived
for
A newer device to entice and entrap.
Now a lifeless ball is glumly
Spun along, spun along.
Gazed at ponderously, dumbly,
By a yawning throng.
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


Write for the Big
Sale Book-FREE!
JTISi
MBK
Util
m
Bjsj
THE WORCDX
LARGEST
MOfc&BOYJ
wlar store.
lUj
'• f V
mn
fir
-rri”-
'H I «•.}.
jz?
Illllllilllllllllllllll! Illllllll!!llll[l!!! 11l
%
Vl
B
u«
0
ŝ
s
Ready-to
Wear
Suits
Men’s High-grade
Woollen Worsted Sac
Suits, in shades of Mid
and Dark Grey. S.B.
style; smartly cut.
Usually .... 78/9
Red Spot Price 69(11
Men’s Sports Suits
Herringbone T weed
Two-piece Sports Suits
for Men, in a variety of
popular Grey and Fawn
patterns. Ready for wear.
Usually .... 847-
Red Spot Price 74/9
Worsted Trousers
m
■
S e r v i c eable
Grey Woollen
Worsted
Trousers for
Men; side and
hip pockets, cuff
bottoms.
Usually .... 257-
Red Spot Price 19/9
Sports Trousers, Flannels,
Serge Trousers, Overalls,
etc., all reduced.
Men’s Sports Coats
Men’s Grey or Fawn
Sports Coats, in fancy
Herringbone patterns;
half-belt at back, patch
pockets.
Usually .... 37/6
Red Spot Price 33/9
The Biggest Sale in the
History of the Firm
f
(T
Huge Stocks Must Be Cleared
As a basis, everything at this Bargain Event
(except tobacco and a few proprietary 4 r\o /
lines) is reduced at least JLv//o
but great stocks are being
cut as low as
Half Price!
m.
A Fine 35/-
Fur Felt for
lf\
IT/
A Special Purchase—direct from one of Eng-
land’s leading hat manufacturers. A better Hat
value was never offered. Blocked to the latest
whim of fashion, lined with silk, has sweat-
proof leather band, with fine-quality silk band
on the outside. “Snap-brim” style. You may
choose from light, medium and dark Greys,
Reseda Green, Beaver and Fawn; in sizes 6j.
to 7b
Usually. . .35/-
Red Spot Price - - 24/9
The famous Murdoch “Sombrero” high crown,
wide rolled brim. Fawn, Black or Slate shades.
Usually 27/6. Red Spot Price . . 24/9
Ask for your initials to be stamped in your hat FREE.
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR.
If writing, kindly address all letters to Desk R,
Murdoch’s, Ltd., Box 3875 TT, G.P.O., Sydney.
Men’s
Shirts
s
Attractive Striped Cam-
bric Golf Shirts for Men.
Effective color combina-
tions ; soft collar to match.
Usually 7/6
Red Spot Price 5/6
Men’s Pyjamas
Summer-weight Poplin-
de luxe Pyjamas for Men,
in a large array of colors.
Usually .... 12/6
Red Spot Price 8/11
Youths’
Suits
ś
All-wool Tweed Sac
Suits, in Mid and Dark
Grey; S.B. style, 3-piece,
ready for wear.
Usually .... 59/9
Red Spot Price 49/9
Boys’ Suits
Mid and Dark Grey All-
wool Tweed Cotswold
Suits for Boys 6 to 14
years. Plain knee knick-
ers; lined.
Usually .... 307-
Red Spot Price 2413
Don’t miss the bargains in
our Paints, Tools and Gar-
dening Implements Depart-
ments.
ŝ
George Sts.
Q.he Worlds Largest Metis and Boys' Wear Store
ş


Legal Notices.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1883 of 1929.
BETWEEN ILMA LINDSAY Petitioner
and HAMILTON BRUCE DONALD
McLEAN LINDSAY (also known as
Harry Hammond) Respondent.
TO HAMILTON BRUCE DONALD Mc-
LEAN LINDSAY (also known as
Harry Hammond) late of Coogee N.S.W.
TAKE NOTICE that the said lima Lind-
say has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a
divorce on the ground that you have without
just cause or excuse wilfully deserted her
and without any such cause or excuse left
her continously so deserted during three
years and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appear-
ance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the
ninth day of April 1930 and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding A copy
of the Petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned solicitor free
of charge.
DATED this second day of January, 1930.
For the Registrar,
(Signed) D. C. DEAN [l.s.],
Clerk in Divorce.
Robert William Fraser, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, Williamson House, 51 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 NEW ZEALAND—NORTHERN
DISTRICT.
In Divorce.
BETWEEN MABEL GUSSY Petitioner
and ANTHONY GUSSY Respondent.
To ANTHONY GUSSY formerly of Auck-
land Te Kuiti Gisborne Matiere and Tai-
hape in the Dominion of New Zealand.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been
issued out of the Supreme Court of New
Zealand at Auckland Northern Judicial
District citing you to appear and answer the
Petition of MABEL GUSSY of Raurimu
Married Woman wherein she prays for a
dissolution of her marriage with you on the
ground of desertion and such Citation inti-
mates that in default of your so doing the
Court will proceed to hear the said Petition
and to pronounce sentence thereunder not-
withstanding your absence NOW THERE-
FORE take notice that for the purpose afore-
said you are on or before the twenty-eighth
day of February 1930 to attend in person or by
your solicitor at the Supreme Court Office at
Auckland and there to enter an appearance
without which you will not be allowed to
address the Court at any stage in the pro-
ceedings A copy of the said Citation and
Petition will be supplied to you on your
applying for the same at the Supreme* Court
Office at Auckland.
Dated this 20th day of December, 1929.
S. A. CLEAL,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him the foregoing
advertisement.
Sydney James Elliott is solicitor for the
Petitioner whose address for service is at
the office of Messrs. Elliott and Holden,
Numbers 17-21 Yorkshire House, Shortland
Street, in the City of Auckland.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 QUEENSLAND.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
No. 28 of 1930.
Mr. Justice Webb.
Mr. Justice Henchman.
BETWEEN MAUD ALICE JANE THOR-
LEY Plaintiff and SYDNEY OXEN-
HAM TIIORLEY Defendant.
TO THE DEFENDANT SYDNEY OXEN-
IIAM TIIORLEY formerly of Towns-
ville Postal Employee.
TAKE NOTICE that the Plaintiff claims
a dissolution of her marriage with you and
alleges that in the month of June 1922 you
without cause deserted her and without cause
have continuously deserted her from the said
month of June 1922 to the present time and
the Plaintiff prays to have the said mar-
riage dissolved AND TAKE NOTICE that
the Court has by order dated the fifteenth
day of January 1930 authorised service upon
you of the Writ of Summons and Petition
(1) By serving a copy of the Writ of Sum-
mons and an office copy of the Petition on
Thomas Thorley Storekeeper Gregory Street
Townsville (2) By insertion of this notice
once in the Brisbane “Courier” the Towns-
ville “Bulletin” the Gympie “Times” and
the Sydney Bulletin (3) By filing in the
Registry of this Court at Brisbane an office
copy of the Petition and a copy of the Writ
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
within thirty days from the last act done in
pursuance of this order to cause appearance
to be entered for you at the Registry of
the Supreme Court Brisbane and that in
default of your so doing the Plaintiff may
proceed in this action and judgment may
be given in your absence.
DATED this seventeenth day of January,
1930.
F. S. KENNEDY,
Registrar.
Nicol Robinson & Fox, Solicitors, 334
Queen Street, Brisbane, Town Agents for
Fred B. Sykes, Solicitor for Plaintiff, Gym-
pie.
Missing Friends.
YY/ILL any person knowing the where-
W abouts of MRS. JANE LORYMERE.
formerly of Sixteenth Street, Bowden, South
Australia, please communicate with the
undersigned,
HAGUE & PARSONS,
Solicitors, Scottish House,
Waymouth Street, Adelaide, S.A.
PARIS
LE CHATEAU FRONTENAC
CHAMPS ELYS&S
54 Rue Pierre Charron
Latest Hotel of Refinement
J. G. Metrniller. Managing Director.
The Sensation /
of the Month 1
MICK SIMMONS
January
BARGAIN
SPECIALS
Unbeatable in all
Sydney!
š
Usually
75/-
BARGAIN-
SPECIAL
57/6
The Beautiful Oxford
“TORNADIC”
Racket
Special 2-Piece English Ash and Oak
Frame, strung with first-quality
English Gut.
The Popular
"RENOWN”
Tennis Racket
There is no finer racket value offer-
ing in all Australia to-day!
Usually 2J5/-
BARGAIN
SPECIAL
16/3
High-Grade
GUNS
and
RIFLES
Reduced
Combined D.B. Gun and Rifle, I 2-gauge,
32cal. Usually £l4/147-
Bargain Special, £lO/17/6
Combined D.B. Gun and Rifle, 4 1 0-gauge,
22cal. Usually £5/5/-
Bargain Special, £4/2/6
Winchester Automatic Rifle, 3 5 cal.
Usually £l2/127-
Bargain Special, £9
Winchester S.B. Gun, 20-gauge.
Usually £4/4/-
Bargain Special, £3/5/-
1 only Davis & Son D.B. Gun, 1 2-gauge.
Usually £7/10/-
Bargain Special, £5/15/-
Muzzle-loading S.B. Gun.
Usually 32/6
Bargain Special, 22/6
Daisy 1000 Repeater Air Rifle
Usually 18/6
Bargain Special, 14/11
Canvas Game Bags, leather lined with
Net, 20in. x 1 7in. Usually 307-
Bargain Special, 24/-
All Letters to Box 18b, 720 P.O. Haymarket,
Sydney.
MICK SIMMONS Ltd.
Headquarters: 720 Haymarket,
Sydney.
The Ins and Outs
“N.D.”: Hugh Chilvers, the Sydney slow
bowler, who made such an impression in the
recent match between N.S.W. and South
Australia, is only 26, though lie has been
playing grade cricket for five years. At
first a medium-paced right-hander with the
usual off break, he has been bowling slows
for the past three seasons, and lias this
year collected 28 wickets in grade cricket
for 17.32 apiece. His great asset is his con-
sistent length and accuracy, while he has
fortunately not been led away by the “bosie”
obsession. A brilliant field and a really useful
bat, lie promises to be a great asset to the
N.S.W. side, and may go even further.
* * *
“Five Ways”: That white elephant the
Brisbane Cricket Ground is again in the
doldrums. Though easily accessible and
reasonably well equipped, it has never done
well for the trustees or for the unfortunates
who were persuaded to give it a start by
throwing in a considerable sum for a life-
member’s pass. Bulli and Merri soil was
brought from the south for the wickets, and
for some years the inter-State and other big
matches which have now drifted away to the
Exhibition Ground were played there. After
various vicissitudes as a centre of cycling
and pony-racing, it went to the dogs, and
couldn’t even make a do out of that. Now
the Greater Brisbane Council is considering
the matter of taking the ground over, with
its considerable deficit, from the trustees, and
using it as a sports centre for South Brisbane.
* * # He
“Bramall Lane’’: Cricket bristles with co-
incidences, but a curious one has lately been
the subject of comment by English writers
on the game. In 1928 Frank Woolley, A.
P. Freeman and wicketkeeper Leslie Ames
scored the mlosfc runs, took the greatest
number of wickets and caught and stumped
the most batsmen respectively. For the
1929 season the trio repeated the feat, and
probably put up a unique record, especially
as all three play for the same county, Kent.
* * * "*
“Lansdowne”: International cricket isn’t
altogether an unmixed blessing. There are
English critics who complain that the visit of
an Australian team to England spoils the
county season, and certainly the visit of
an English side to Australia plays the
devil with Sheffield Shield matches. Even the
impending selection of an Australian team
for England exercises, it can hardly be
denied, a bad effect on the inter-State
games. There i» a tendency for players
themselves as well as the cricketing public
H. C. CHILVERS, the young N.S.W. slow
howler, who recently made a sensational
debut in Sheffield Shield cricket.
to be less interested in the results of matches
than in individual performances which are
likely to influence the selectors in their job.
Thus in Sydney we had the extraordinary
spectacle of the men who choose the State
elevens trying a second wicketkeeper in the
match against S. A us. Not, they were
careful to explain, because they were dissatis-
fied with their previous choice, but simply
that both men might be in the running for
the coveted trip to England. That sort of
thing may be generous, but it isn’t cricket.
* * * *
The Watermen
“Blade”: As was generally expected,
selector O. Wood has chosen the Sydney
R. C. eight to represent N.S.W. in the King’s
Cup race. The crew is a young one in a
rowing sense, most of the men having only
come up to senior rowing this season. In
M. G. Mackenzie, however, they have a
seasoned stroke; he was No. 2 in the State
boat at Hobart in 1927 and stroked the
crew on the Nepean (N.S.W.) River the
following year. The club has a good chance
of landing a unique double, for Bob Pearce,
who will defend his title of Australian scull-
ing champion in Adelaide, is a member.
❖ ❖ ❖ 5{C
“Toowong”: Queensland country clubs
have always figured prominently in the his-
tory of rowing in that State, but, without
exception, these have been confined to coastal
centres. Many years ago an attempt was
made to establish a club at far-inland St.
George, where there is a fine river, but it
failed. Now Warwick is considering the
matter. The Slade school, a local foundation
on G.P.S. lines, is going to take up rowing,
and since the Condamine River offers plenty
of facilities when the sheep and cows have
not been too thirsty, the sport should soon
be in full swing. The youngsters will have
plenty of opponents to choose from among the
coastal schools.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: The increasing vogue of row-
ing among Sydney women—the dears are
to hold a special regatta in February, which
will include that unusual spectacle a race
between “mixed” eights—reminds me. Years
ago a young enthusiast who had rowed for
Eton and Cambridge formed a women’s
rowing club in one of the Australian capi-
tals. Only the very naicest were invited
to join, and there was soon a big enough
entry to “man an armada. Overwork at
his university, however, had made the coach
a little “queer,” his idiosyncrasy running
on gloomily religious lines. One day when
he was coxing an eight out in the middle
of the wide and deep river, he stopped the
rowing and asked his fair pupils if they
had ever realised what would happen to
their immortal souls if the boat happened
to upset. In spite of the fact that it is
said to have put up a world’s record getting
back to the shed, the crew resigned in a
body, and as soon as they got the oil the
other members followed suit.
Racquet and Bawl
The long-drawn-out country tennis cham-
pionships in Sydney ended rather unfortu-
nately in a couple of instances. G. R.
Williams, of Barraba, -who had qualified to
play in the singles and doubles finals, was
urgently recalled to the country, J. C. Snape,
and the same player with, R. Spencer taking
the two titles by default. Then Mrs. Martin
had to retire through injury in the final of
the women’s singles; honors remained with
the holder, Miss Wilson. Tamworth pro-
duced the best men’s team, while Goulburn
beat Newcastle in the women’s final.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The Victorian tennis heads
have issued their ranking list for 1929.
The men are topped by R. E. Schlesinger,
with ,T. B. Il'awkes second. J. Clemenger,
who has been beating them all in the inter-
state tourney in Melbourne, is bracketed
third with the Geelong player, A. H. Has-
kett. Mrs. R. R. Harper lias been placed
first on the women’s list, and is undoubtedly
the finest singles player Victoria can boast
since Esna Boyd went to live in Britain.
As a doubles player the Victorian is one of
the best in Australia.
“Top Spin”; Daphne Akhurst will play
no more in competitive singles after
defending her title in Melbourne this month,
when a third consecutive win will earn her
permanent possession of the Cup. The cham-
pion has twice visited Europe, the first tour
including America, and on her last appear-
ance was rated the second-best woman player
on the world’s ranking list after Helen Wills.
A general favorite with tennis addicts, Miss
Akhurst affects none of that “temperament”
to which so many players, male and female,
seem exposed.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Slow Back”: Though it seems to be
impossible to get another public golf links
within a tram-ride of Sydney City proper,
quite a lot of courses, semi-public in charac-
ter, are growing up within motoring distance
of the harbor. The latest is at Meuangle
Park on the southern side of Liverpool,
where the Menangle Park Racing Co. is
laying down a nine-hole course close to
the Nepean River, from which ample
water supplies are available for green and
fairways. The scheme will , include picnic
grounds, with tennis courts and provision
for other sports. As regards golf, the terrain
is ideal, closely resembling some parts of the
Sussex Downs, where some of the finest golf-
courses in England are located.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: On present indications it
looks as if the Hagen-Kirkwood combine
will get a chilly reception in Sydney. Royal
Sydney and the Australian have gone cold
on the suggestion that they should guarantee
the £2OO fee asked by the pair for an ex-
hibition match on their sacrosanct links.
Minor organisations like Manly, Killara,
Deewliy and even Newcastle have cheerfully
consented to back the bill. Victoria has set
a better example. The pair will make a
whole week’s showing there at all the lead-
ing clubs, the attractions including
exhibition games between the famous visi-
tors but others against professional and
amateur players.
* * * *
“James Pigg”: One of the problems
attaching to the advent of two prominent
American professional golfers is the collec-
tion of fees for witnessing their methods.
Australia, with its courses for the most part
unenclosed, does not harbor waggon-loads of
people willing to pay to see golf. The Syd-
ney municipal course at Moore Park is a
notable instance. The two great men will
play there provided they get ss. a head from
the spectators. How these are to be counted
or collected from is giving the promoters of
the scheme a headache. I timidly suggest
the method long adopted by the secretaries
of “subscription” hunts in Britain. At the
meet the sec. rides through the throng and
when he spots anyone not a “regular” says
in a loud voice that he is glad to welcome
a visitor to the Hunt, and that the usual
subscription is two guineas. “Capping,” as
it is called, rarely fails, but at Moore Park
it might be just as well to take round a
megaphone and a couple of retired pugs
as “minders.”
v * * *
“H'otham”: Sloan Morpeth, Maoriland
open and amateur champion in recent years,
is now located in Victoria, the amateur
championship of which is also in his bag.
Last week he took over his new job as
sec. of the Commonwealth club at Oakleigh.
His settlement in Australia has rather com-
plicated the situation as regards M.L. re-
presentation in the next Kirk-Windeyer Cup
tourney. He came over last year with the
Maoriland side for the contest in Melbourne
won by N.S.W. The question is likely to
arise whether he can now turn out for
the All Blacks by reason of his M.L. birth,
or whether Victoria has the right to claim
him.
* * * *
“Brassey”: The war between the two big
Sydney golf clubs, the Royal Sydney and the
Australian, and the combined Suburban and
Country Associations is approaching the
bloodletting stage, and unless things improve
the proposed council to govern the game in
N.S.W. will go up in smoke. The trouble
is that the two big clubs demand half the
representation on the executive of the pro-
posed new body. The 150 odd clubs which
make up the joint associations naturally
object to this, and matters are at a deadlock.
Already there is a rumor that the suburban
and country bodies intend to form a new
association independent of the two big Syd-
ney shows. If this is done, it will mean that
these will be declared “black” by their
numerous little sisters.
(Continued on page 39.)


jjSjjgL
\
. . ' :• •. .
ipiiiiii
1
* r >
■
r
■ : '
- ■
1 . •
,vCv k?
fojffilflpj - VSi.- ,'■
* -
FIFfTMASTTi
Fleetmaster is the obvious answer to the
need for absolute flexibility, speed and
efficiency in rapid transportation. It is a
truck which will bring operating costs
down to the lowest price per ton mile
possible. It will pay you to ask the
nearest Republic agent about it.
f
m i. si
in
1
,
■
(*. ' .-I
H
■
,
. m >
HtHHH ■
'iti
V • '
i , ;
'
liiiiii
■ «■ I
tilliiill
/
X
l * * ' * I
\
W 1 '
m
11
a
*ig
• • I
. - :/'
«4s»k !
iWkdMmm
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177-185 William Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114 Franklin Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cvcle & Motor Agency,
(Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek & Adelaide Streets, Brisbane,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Republic Truck Sales Co., Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: *
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki & Cable Streets,
Wellington.
Factory Representatives: W. A. CROWLELT D., Crowle House, York Street, Sydney.


A New Set of
LODGE
PLUGS
is a wonderful stimulus to your
engine.
SPORTS PLUG (Model HI)
is built for hot work, and
stands up to the highest
engine speeds without a sign
of pre-ignition.
See one of the
actual Lodge
Plugs used in the
Schneider Cup
trial. Also testi-
monials received
from Rolls Royce,
Ltd., telling how
Lodge Plugs helped
to win this Air
Classic. Displayed
in Bennett and
Woods’ show win-
dows on the corner
Pitt and Bathurst
Streets, Sydney,
commencing to-day.
mm
mm
a
m
m
69
In sealed
metal
box.
LODGE
PLUGS. LTD.,
RUGBY, ENG.
Motorists
< f
Have you seen the “Keystone” Ratchet Sets?
They stand alone for accuracy, wear-
resistance, compactness and appearance.
Set No. 555, as illustrated, has 8 sockets,
made of case-hardened, specially-treated steel,
in the following sizes: 7-16, ■J, 9-16, §, 11-16,
J, s and 15-16 inch.
Also included is a screwdriver, a 7in. drop
forged steel ratchet handle and an Bin. hex.
handle, which may also be used as a long
adapter. Nickel-plated case.
These sets will be shortly selling at 10/6,
owing to increased manufacturing costs, but
for a limited period we are offering them at
8/6. Postage extra.
Packet weighs 31b.
JJ£4?Kerson§)
SYDNEY 51 Bathurst Street
MELBOURNE 582 Collins Street
ADELAIDE 116 Waymouth Street
Alan Kipp
w
has some well-
oiled Stuart Sur-
ridge bats, ready
for use. All bats
fitted with rubber
grip.
Australian Scorer,
XXX 30/-
Australian Scorer,
XX . 25/-
(Postage Paid.)
N.S.W. Sports Store,
Ltd.,
26 MARTIN PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Alan Kippax, Director.
■ <O,
ſ
'
w.
mfc-i
•'SB!*!
IMONIZ
ooco-e
■
w 4: ’•
c\vi££i
to*
IT PAYS
to SIMONIZ a CAR
The finish lasts longer—
Keeps colors from fading—
Makes cars more beautiful and
Worth more on a “trade-in”—
SIMONIZ does much more than
just polish. It provides a hard-
lasting surface that seldom needs
washing—all dirt, dust and traffic
accumulations can he wiped off with
a soft cloth without scratching the
finish.
When cars are dull and discolored
Simoniz Kleener quickly and
easily removes all blemishes,
renews the lustre and prepares
the finish for Simoniz.
The way to keep DUCO
and all finishes beautiful—
INSIST ON SIMONIZ
Sold by all Good Motor Housed, Service Stations and
Hardware Stores at 2/9 Small Cans; 5/6 Large Cans.
In case you cannot obtain locally, see note below.
M
A
D
E
1
N
A
U
S
T
R
A
L
I
A
ß
ANOTHER WONDERFUL
SIMONIZ
PRODUCT—
SIMONIZ
PENETRATING
GRAPHITE
OIL
“LOOSENS THE TIGHTEST NUT.’*
Simoniz Penetrating Graphite Oil
instantly
DISSOLVES RUST,
LUBRICATES CAR SPRINGS,
STOPS CHASSIS AND BODY
SQUEAKS,
FREES GUMMED MOTOR VALVES,
LOOSENS ALL TIGHT NUTS
AND BOLTS.
Sold in handy Boz. can with long spout. Price 2/9.
IP YOU CANNOT OBTAIN SIMONIZ PRODUCTS
FROM YOUR USUAL DEALER, SEND POSTAL
NOTE TO
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS,
MOTORITE EQUIPMENTS PTY., LTD.,
Carlton, Melbourne.
FREE SAMPLES
OF SIMONIZ AND
KLEENER ON REQUEST.
vy
OK*
Apply with a cloth
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: Norman Smith’s performance
in setting up a new Australasian motor-speU
record on the 90-Mile Beach, near Auckland,
seems even more meritorious than appease
at first account. The big composite 350-h.p.
car was doing 160 m.p.h, accordnig to tlm
instruments, when a blinding
caused Smith to ease up a little in the faia
stage of the second run. Even then the
mean time over the two one-mile runs, 14b.0i
m.p.h., is close on 40 m.p.li. faster than the
previous best in Australasia, if we excep
the same drivers figures of 1-o.Cm m.p.n.
over a quarter of a mile at Gerringon 0
(N.S.W.) recently. The time was taken
by an electrical apparatus lent by the
Automobile Club, and is therefore beyond
question. Hand-held watches or clocks aie
worthless for timing modern motor speeds.
On Friday Smith broke the world s record
for 10 miles by streaking over the distance
in 4min. 2 l-ssec., averaging 14S.boi m.p.n.
* * =!« *
“Second Thoughts”: That hoodoo on the
Pendine Sands (B. IS/l/’SO) lias evidently
had its effect on Kaye Don, for the Knglisn
racing motorist has decided to go to 1 londa
and make liis trial at Daytona, after all.
Since two American drivers, Ray Keech and
Bible, have already been killed there in
attempts on the speed record, one wonders
why it should be considered luckier than the
Welsh course. The decision caused a tre-
mendous hurry-up in the completion of Don s
big new car, for under the rules the attempt
must be made between March 1 and 10.
To get there in time with due allowance tor
tuning-up will mean that the big Sunbeam-
Coatalen must leave England by the middle
of next month. , ..
* * * *
“Jesmond”: There is doubt if. the Vic-
torian Light Oar Club will hold its Grand
Prix on Phillip Island this year. The bill to
render the provisions of the Highways and
Vehicles Act inoperative within the island for
a certain number of days annually, which
the island council has been agitating for, was
not passed by the McPherson Government.
Victorian Police Commissioner . Blarney
; issued a warning last year that action would
i be taken if the race were held again.
=1: * * *
“Kick Starter” : Frank Pearce, one of Aus-
; tralia’s best dirt-track motor cyclists and a
i pioneer of the game in England, is off to
: ml. to ride a series of races against the
I local cracks. According to him, the sport
when first introduced to Britain by the
earlier Australian contingents caught on like
| wildfire, and the first-comers were rushed
by promoters and manufacturers. English
riders soon picked up the tricks, and. the
market became over-crowded. Late arrivals
Dr. OTTO PELTZER, the famous German
middle-distance runner and holder of
the world’s record for the half-mile.
from Australia found themselves unwanted
by the manufacturers and had to buy and
maintain their own machines with, usually,
unsatisfactory financial results.
jj. Sj* . %
“Sprocket”: One reason for the recent
sudden return to Australia of a number of
our professional cyclists who have been
earning good money in America was let slip
by one of them the other day. The Aus-
tralian professionals have been so consist-
ently successful that the public are getting
tired of seeing them win. Promoters have
sensed the feeling, and are now signing up
riders from Europe or any other country
offering a spice of variety and perhaps a
less invincible style of riding.
Miscellaneous
“Spinnaker”: As usual in her own waters,
Queensland cleaned up the 16ft. sailing cham-
pionship on the Brisbane River, winning the
first three heats and scoring most of the
placings in each. There was a heavy entry,
including the title-holder, Verona, from
Westralia, which won on the Swan a year
ago but the visitor from the other side of
the continent failed to make a showing. The
winning boat, Ajax V., was designed and
skippered by Alf Whereat, one of a family
long renowned for its skill in building and
sailing open-boat fliers.
;!• Jtj ❖ ❖
“Sheer Line”: A notable Australian yacht
designer, Alfred Blore, of Tasmania, has
just passed over at Hobart, aged 71. With
W P. Batt and the late John Tarleton, he
designed Tassie and Tassie 11., a pair
which has cleaned up the other Australian
yachts of the 21ft. restricted class in the
Forster Cup for the last three years. Another
of his creations threatens to emulate her
sisters in the coming contest for the Cup on
Port Phillip in February.
* * * *
“Spike”: Jim Carlton followed up his
9 4-ssec. for the 100 at Sydney Sports
Ground (B. 15/l/’3O) with another sprint
in 9 7-10 sec. at Manly Oval. The young man
lias never been able to get inside the lOsec.
line until this season. His performances
suggest that he is now in a fair way to lower
the long-standing Australasian record he
equalled at the Sports Ground, the 9 4-ssee.
hoisted by the mighty Wally Macpherson at
Auckland in 1891.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro”: They do some things
better in Germany. According to Dr.
Peltzer, now exhibiting his paces in Aus-
tralia, no German athlete may go on exten-
sive foreign tours without special permission,
since the men are required to concentrate
on their various trades and professions
for the national benefit. In Australia we
look through the other end of the tele-
scope. Quite recently a yonng man re-
signed a good position in a Sydney bank
because the latter would not give him leave
to play cricket in Brisbane. It is now
announced that a rising young tennis star
has chucked his job in Sydney because it
takerf too much time from his game, and lias
gone to Westralia to take up another which
will not so severely limit his genius. There
is a moral somewhere in the conflicting
points of view.
“Bamboo”: Australia was first invaded by
an overseas polo team last year, when the
Indian Army side figured in N.S.W. In the
coming season, the tale will be repeated, the
visitors this time hailing from Siam, where
there is a considerable British population,
including not a few Australians. Many of
the natives have taken to the game, and one
of the best of them, Phya Ivathathorn, will
accompany the team. The colors will afford
polo-players a new thrill, since they are
dark blue with a white elephant badge.
i\% *i* *•* |
“Pelham”: There are few polo-playing
countries on earth into which the Australian
pony has not poked his nose. India has
known him for years, while he has now an
unrivalled reputation in America and even in
Britain and on the Continent. Malaya has
long been a keen bidder for the polo-racer
type, and quite a considerable, if unadvcr-
tised, trade now goes on between breeders
in this country and the Malayan racing
and gymkhana clubs. Siam, whose represen-
tatives we shall see in Sydney during the
Dudley Cup meeting at the end of June, also
builds largely on the pocket Waler, though a
good' proportion of the ponies used there are
English-bred.
:jc
“Cash Amateur”: After several years of
inumbo-jumbo, Dick Eve, the. N.S."V\.
swimmer who won the Olympic diving cham-
pionship at Paris, has been reinstated as an
amateur. Eve was struck off the sacred roll
because he took a job as manager of a
swimming bath. Though this does not affect
amateur status in rigidly amateur Britain,
the Australian high priests of the Swimming
Ass. excommunicated him. He got a great
reception on his recent re-appearance m
Sydney as a lilywhite, and showed that he
had lost none of the form which put him in a
class of his own as a diver.
* * * *
“Third Base”: Babe Ruth, the mighty
swiper of American baseball, has asken
£51,000 for a three years’ contract. He is
sure to get it, too, since the American pro-
fessional baseball clubs are proprietary con-
cerns and their millionaire owners will pay
anything for a good draw-card. No wonder
American baseballers are rude to umpires.
With £17,000 a year for three years guaran-
teed in advance who cares for a mere ump..
* * * *
“Bias”: The president of the Australian
team which will have to bowl and flowing
bowl its way through Britain shortly is
U. A. Alley, a mighty man with the woods
in Melbourne and one of the most cunning
of skips as well. A special badge of unique
design has been evolved, says the president,
“representing each State with a kangaroo
in the centre.” The many bowlers who have
at one time or other represented various
States should present a variegated appear-
ance. ... „
* * * *
“Gate”: With honors easy as regards the
Tests between the English Northern Union
and the Kangaroos, the latter rather spilt
the beans by insisting on a fourth match.
Played at Rochdale last week, this ended in
a narrow victory for the Englishmen, who
won 3-0, a try to nowt. The result is
that instead of having half a bone, the
tourists have dropped the lot, and Britain
takes the Test honors for the third succes-
sive time since 1920.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: Already the Rugby Union
world is getting ready for the British visit
next season. Palfreyman, one of the best
line-out forwards in Australasia, will be in
harness again for N.S.W., while W. B.
Sheehan, the Waratah five-eighth, recently
returned from the British medical schools,
is again thinking of taking the field. On
the other hand, Breckenridge, the Waratah
breakaway and treasurer of the N.S.W.
Rugby Union, will probably retire on his
marriage with a lass he met in Scotland
during the famous tour. Victoria, as well
as Queensland, will be invited to send teams
to Sydney, and a full season is assured for
the amateur code, which is also to be estab-
lished in Federal territory, where at present
it is only played at Duntroon.
* * * *
“The Other Cat”: The tumult and the
screeching over the selection of the Aus-
tralian women’s hockey team to tour South
Africa and Britain has died down and its
place is taken by the despairing sobs of those
who were left on the outer. Victoria and
N.S.W. have four reps, each, South Aus-
tralia and Queensland two, and Westralia
and Tassy one. Miss Cazewell, of South
Australia, is skipperette, and Miss Wright,
of Westralia, second in charge. The side will
figure in the Empire tournament in South
Africa, and after that play throughout Great
Britain, with some Continental fixtures to
follow. ...
* * * *
“Blue Chalk”: Walter Lindrum last week
started a fortnight’s match against the Eng-
lish professional champion, Davis, in London.
At the end of the first three days Walter
was 6018 (including one break of 1660) to
the champion’s 3480, so it looks as if the
usual procession is on the cards. Earlier
in the week Lindrum finished up a seven-
days’ match against an English youthful
prodigy named Leigh. The latter got 7000
start, but could only total 10,080. The
Australian, on the other hand, rattled up
19,781 —an astonishing score for the time
employed.


• * . :* # * v
/»#♦* * ; , ' ** *
♦
*
.a * - * • ' •.- ' ■ -s'
...♦ T.^ y ;# \ \
y?tM
,t. * v>\ ~ 1 . tjiMitaf •■ . ’'• i
•«r S6»#- **•.
m.gsAA ■■■'•■
Hllilll
//
.
■
hhh
%
mSMm
■HI m
m
I
ini
M
*,,,
<
■ ■ '
■
*>
mmi
.* • : i • ?5N *
. *V ’ ;> >
m
\
■ :
♦
Wm
\
. r ,*
p
It
■jKf vs
*
:
1
II
■
yj\
1/5= J
*
* «»
P
1
B
*
. - *
a
■ I
WA
m
■
■
♦j
i
■ a
:
■i
Hi
wm
M—
'» ■ ■ ■
Vs
.
i- ; .-•
■
Bi
nfll
■
f
m
BHP
fesik
111111
%
i
Mi
s
fa w
IP
■
IS
§l|l§|
¥a J
IP
HOSIERY OF INCOMPARABLE QUALITY
<!f )4'%efei S "rS, ' M ’
f i- 1 /■-'■“"• <. <n <(
i 1 0$ i
j J !I ‘fe-eJIP*
*
: :
( iiiiiiN 11
V '!>». Y
'*<[
(: 'Mi;... i! ::,llh!: (i : : ;' ..!
,j 'i vtut-t r
(iy" / Hi i> K \ V!/
|* j <,<( a,i \ v 1 y
• 'I •*<
b
❖
V
iji ' l )' I 1 >..J- i.iJjkLi ' )../ |. C'ilV
J i
.. O'!
V'W
Mh 'Hu
1,.:-' 1
' Jfe i
•«S J
*»r J l
««:; y; k ;; -/ / ,:!!«' "J
"l; f
-.1. .i|.
iJ i j ,m, <»
i / ji' •! | j •,
*••••••'* ** ’y* ** **•••»•*


After your shampoo
a touch of Rowland’s
Macassar Oil will re-
place the natural oil
which the shampoo re-
moved. The oil is very
necessary, for it pre-
vents thin, falling hair
and gives a perfect
healthy gloss. Comb
the oil well into the
hair.
From all Chem-
ists, Stores and
Hairdressers.
Red for dark
hair; golden for
fair or grey hair.
ands
Macassar Oil
112 Guilford Street, London, W. 0.1.,
ENGLAND.
n Alert Attention to Your Needs...
-AND THOUGHT UPON YOUR COMFORT
is the policy that has placed the Wentworth in the front
rank of Australian hotels. Efficiently managed under the
personal direction of Mrs. H. Maclurcan, it is the centre
of all smart gatherings and the chosen rendezvous of the
leaders in Society.
They appreciate, from personal experience, the real ser-
vice, the luxurious comfort and excellent cuisine for
which the Wentworth definitely sets a standard of
quality. Wire or Write tor reservations.
Qfie Wentworth
Church Hill,
Sydney.
s
Monday to Friday,
A la Carte Dining and Supper
Service.
Minimum charge 7/6. Dancing till
1 a.m. Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY LATE GALA NIGHT.
Special Table d’hote Dinner, 217-
Special Supper from 10 o’clock,
12/6; or a la Carte, minimum, 12/6
Afternoon Tea Dansant—
Monday to Friday, 3.30 to 5.30, 2/6
Saturday, 4/-
’Phone M4l 3 1 for your reservation.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nu[?] [?]
[?]
The Somers Cup has been played for the
last two years in a heat wave, which was
perhaps one reason why not many went to
Moonee Valley on the opening day except
relations and friends of the players. This
was a pity, for the weather turned out ideal
for polo. Lord Somers and his team donned
washing-blue jerseys to engage the Nomads,
who displayed orange colors; against the
skyline of red roofs the color scheme was
a highly attractive picture to this Page.
Vice-royalty was well represented by the
Governor-General with Lady Stonehaven,
their two small daughters and Lady Grizel
Hamilton. Her Ex. wore a berry-red flat;
a kasha coat surmounted her black frock
with its geometric pattern in green. Lady
Hamilton’s oyster-grey crepe de Chine gown
was covered with a dull-green coat, squirrel-
collared. Lady Somers, always watchful of
her lord’s requirements in the matter of
tightened reins and other polo essentials,
was in a fawn and red-figured voile frock,
a gay scarf and fawn ballibnntal hat. Mrs.
E. 11. Davidson, whose husband was in the
Governor’s Moonee Valley A team, came in
crepe de Chine of beige hue allied to a
speckled straw hat. Al-ister Clark, chairman
of the Moonee Valley R. C., and secretary
A. V. Hiskens mixed with the vice-regal
bevy.
The second day’s play saw the Governor-
General in action among the Moonee Valley
B team. Again there was a full vice-regal
roll-up. Lady Stonehaven’s gown was almost
of the same shade of blue as the colors of
his Ex.’s team, which, alas ! was vanquished.
Lady Somers, who wrapped a rug around
herself in the keen wind, had a fawn-toned
coat over a brown and beige spotted frock
with a darker liued hat.
Among the circle of onlookers was a good
stiffening of Western District folk hoping
to see the Nomads, who got a leg-in by
beating the State Governor’s team on the
first day, secure the Cup. Glimpsed in black
and white was Mrs. John Manifold, whose
husband captained the Nomads; Mrs. C. O.
Fairbairn was a study in sapphire blue.
Others noted were Mrs. H. Creswick; Mrs.
Douglas Boyd, of Cobram; Mrs. Stanhope
Winter-Irving, from Nagambie; and Mrs.
lan Currie, of Seven Creeks.
Delightful weather made the finals for the
Somers Cup an almost dressy occasion,
chiffons appearing in the sunlight once again,
and pretty parasols as well. The attend-
ance improved and keen interest was shown
in the tussle between Seven Creeks B and
the Nomads for the coveted trophy. The
former team (J. Ilindhaugh, lan Currie, F.
Brett and C. Chomley) secured a lead of
two. goals, and collected the Cup with
miniature replicas presented by Lady Somers.
Her ladyship, who wore summery effect of
biscuit ninon splashed with navy-blue and a
hat of fawn tone, also handed the runners-
up (J. Manifold, A. Urquhart, C. O. and
J. V. Fairbairn) small pewter cups. The
G.-G. was in the Moonee Valley B side
which tried conclusions with Seven Creeks
A, but failed to get into the beaten teams’
finals. Lady Stonehaven was cool-looking in
ensemble of lime, yellow and white with
pale green hat. The State Governor was a
mere spectator on this occasion. The Clarke
lady, in flowered blue and white chiffon and
a blue hat, brought her daughters Margaret
and Patricia. Other onlookers were Mrs.
John Winter-Irving, with black and green
smartly blended in a filmy frock; Mrs. W.
Winter-Irving; Mrs. J. V. Fairbairn, of Mt.
Elephant; Mrs. Robert Landale, the George
Armstrongs and Mrs. Gilbert Wilson, of
Brisbane, in navy-blue and white.
Things were quite pleasant at Caulfield
on Saturday after the dust-storm lifted ; the
wind had brought a good deal of the surface
of the Mallee to the city. The attendance
was satisfactory, although most of the polo-
visitors seemed to have left Melbourne,
and the vice-regals had gone to Anglesea
to see the boys’ camp. There were a few
arresting bits of finery. Mrs. Russell Gabb’s
coat frock of mushroom hue had a deep hem
border and cuffs of sable. Another delightful
turnout, worn by a stranger to these parts, was
an ensemble of chiffon patterned in shades of
blue, topped with a hat of lapis-lazuli blue
straw, encrusted with lace medallions of the
same shade. Mrs. Merson Cooper came with
Mrs. T. J. Ryan, smart in black and white.
Mrs; Ben Chaffey was in all brown, and
Mrs. James Purves aired in her gown and
millinery the color known as burnt bread.
Mrs. Percy Dobson, the W. G. Downie
couple, Nancy and Jean Murdoch, Mrs.
Richard Linton (with gold embellishment
upon a biscuit-tinted frock), the Leslie Ald-
ridges and Mrs. A. V- Kewney were sighted.
Mr. and Mrs. Percy Blackbourn motored up
from Frankston, where they are spending a
few weeks.
An artists’ camp at Anglesea was such
a success that it is proposed to make the
function an annual one. Amongst the paint-
ers assembled were John Farmer, Cohn
Colahan, P. Hurry (Mrs. Farmer), Percy
Leason and Clarice Beckett and the attend-
ant families —artists go in for large families
as an incentive to work —brought the cen-
sus up to 22. Violinist Tarczynski provided
melody round the camp-fire of evenings.
Anglesea is a painter’s paradise, its pre-
cipitous cliffs, which have forgotten they
were mud but can’t make up their minds to
be rock, being unique in Victoria for con-
tour and color.
The gentle art of making up—'disclosed
by a young man with Hollywood experience
—was a side-line entertainment for shoppers
at a local emporium during the week. The
instruction was given in a pretty little salon,
with biscuit-tin ted walls and cubist signs
splashed over them in rainbow tints. The
operator wore Harold Lloyd glasses and a
near-Lloyd expression; his accent was un-
mistakable as various models changed skins
under hi:-? supervision. He showed how to
convert a blonde into a sea-kissed and sun-
tinted brunette with certain artificial aids.
Even the necks of subjects were treated to a
splash of something guaranteed not to wash
off in the brine, and the beautifier made
shingles shine like the coat of a Cup favorite.
Due on the Nestor this week are Nikolai
Nadefine, Russian baritone, and his wife,
formerly Nell Tritton, of Brisbane. A few
years ago Nell, after trying journalism in
Sydney, went to Europe and found her
affinity. Nadefine is said to have a voice
comparable with Chaliapin’s. He made his
debut in opera at Milan in “Trovatore,” has
toured America, and on his way hither he
had a successful concert season in Johan-
nesburg. He will give recitals in our chief
cities. I-Ils wife is a very handsome girl
who achieved distinction in Brisbane in such
diverse ways as producing a book of verse
and dancing with the Prince of Wales.
The Consul for France, Rene Turck, is to
be transferred to Greece, but the date of
his departure with his wife and daughter
Ninette is still uncertain. Mons. Turck has
been in Melbourne for 10 years, and won
the good opinion of all who have come in
contact with him.
The G.-G. and Lady Stonehaven boiled
the billy at Federal Government House on
the 13th to welcome Lady Grizel Hamilton,
daughter of the Earl of Dundonald, who
arrived by the Orsova. Lady Hamilton is
the widow of the Master of Belliaven ; her
husband was killed in the last year of the
war.
The lass with the serious mien is Mar-
garet Nish, a brand-new B.A. of our Uni.
Though she
has put in
some strenuous
years at her
studies, Mar-
garet doesn’t
mean to em-
bark on a
highbrow
career. On
Jan. 21 Dr.
and Mrs. J.
A. Nish, of
Moonee Ponds,
will entrust
their , young
daughter t o
the keeping of
Lister Foster,
w i t h after-
congra tula-
tions at No.
9 Darling-
street. The
h o n e y m oon
will include an overseas tour, but the new
home will eventually be in the Speck. The
picture is by Spencer Shier.
Red Cross workers gathered at Federal
Government Plouse for the 15tli annual meet-
ing of the society, presided over by Lady
Stonehaven. There were over 400 members
in the ballroom to hear the year’s record
read and drink a cup of vice-regal tea. Per-
haps the most stimulating address was that
by the Mitchell lady, who gave cogent rea-
sons for the keeping of all A.R.C.S. acti-
vities up to the .standard of the war years.
Mr. A. Fussell, of the Education Depart-
ment, spoke on the Junior Red Cross, and
credited Young Australia with plenty of en-
thusiasm and efficiency. The chairman,
Morrice Williams, mentioned, among the
society’s peace-time work, the rendering of
financial assistance to the sufferers through
Gippsland bush-fires and Tasmanian floods.
The co-operation of the Red Cross in Repat-
riation work was acknowledged with thanks
by Dr. C. A. Courtney, Repat.’s principal
medical officer. Among those present were
the secretary, Philadelphia Robertson; Miss
K. Egan, representing N. S. Wales ; and Dr.
Charles Bage, who moved the vote of thanks
to her Ex.
The G.-G. and Lady Stonehaven will give
their annual tea-party at Federal Govern-
ment House to-day (22nd) to members of
the Friendly Unions of Sailors’ and Soldiers’
Wives and Mothers, and some of their child-
ren, too. In fact, the guests will be drawn
from all the war-time associations.
White and primrose was the color com-
bination at the wedding of Elsie Ailsa Craig,
daughter of Mrs. E. W, Craig, of East Mel-
vern, to Dr. W. D. Lee Farrar, at St.
John's, Toorak. White lace, with a whisper
of pink beneath, and a delicately ditto-
tinted tulle veil furnished the bride’s array ;
her two ’maids were clad in frocks of the
yellow tone.
Dr. Howard Ward, a retired Harley-street
medico, is on a honeymoon trip to Mlaoriland
with his bride, formerly Elsie Nieholls, of
Melbourne. Miss Nieholls was one of the
keenest of workers for St. Vincent’s Hospital;
she met her husband on board an ocean
liner on her way to England, and the knot
was tied in Westminster Abbey a few months
ago. The doctor i.s a keen fisherman, and
his hobby has taken him to the Dominion
before. The couple are expected to look in
at Melbourne in April.
A Broothorn camera pictures Mrs. Geof-
frey Palmer, who, as (Enone Molesworth,
a daughter of the late Judge and Mrs.
Molesworth, of Melbourne, was a noted
pianist here before she took flight to England
some years
back. A couple
of months
ago she re-
turned, hoping
for a taste of
real Austra-
lian summer
after so many
English win-
ters. She was
out of luck to
strike a season
when there
were only 449
hours of sun-
shine from
October to De-
cember, but
she has had
the best of
times in re-
newing old
friend ships
and revisiting
old scenes. It is lioped that Mrs. Palmer
will give a pianoforte recital : she has kept
up her practice regularly and taken lessons
in Paris from the celebrated Cortot.
The engagement is announced of Jess
Spencer Blanch, younger daughter of the
late G. E. Blanch and of Mrs. Blanch, of
Toorak, to Lieutenant Roy Russell Dowling,
fourth son of the late Russell Dowling and
of Mrs. Dowling, Toowoomba (Q.). The
bride-elect lately joined the literary staff of
the “Argus.”
Hilda Meadows, the St. Kilda, pianist and
violinist who has several compositions to her
•credit, is shortly to be married. Her engage-
ment to William Johns, an optician in
Collins-street, was broadcast among her
friends during the week.
The 21st birthday of Phyllis, elder of the
two good-looking daughters of the W. Pul-
teney Meins, was celebrated with a dinner-
dance at the family home on St. Kilda-road,
whither came many members of society’s
younger set. The leading lady, who wore
hej.- parents’ gifts of a diamond ring and
a string of pearls, was upholstered in leaf-
green chiffon; her sister Alison was in the
same diaphanous material flowered in white
and pastel tints. Mrs. Mein, in black georg-
ette lit up with a brilliant buckle or two,
saw to the party’s smooth running.
Off to India for a few months’ holiday,
Doreen, daughter of Mrs. Walter Gale of
South Yiarra. She will be the guest of
Captain and Mrs. D. G. O’Connell at Luck-
now. Mrs. O’Connell was the slim and
pretty brunette, Elva Rosenthal, of Mel-
bourne, who changed her name some months
ago in London. Over a cup of tea at Men-
zies’ Miss Gale said au revoir to many of
her girl friends.
Madame Humphrey Bishop is packing
her trunks for a trip to Paris; she leaves
by the Mooltan in March. The wife of the
theatrical entrepreneur whose musical-comedy
company is known all round Australia is
making the journey chiefly to put the finish-
ing touches on daughter Nanette, who has
just left school and for whom a stage
career is projected. Before her marriage
Madame Bishop had a sculptor’s studio
in Paris. And she hopes to resume
some of her artistic activities, besides doing
journalistic work. She has helped to make
Henry Lawson still better known in her
native country by translating from his works
for a leading Paris journal.
War memories were revived when Sister
M. McLean Loughron retired from her pri-
vate hospital at Camberwell. A presentation
was made to her by the medical profession
of the district at Dr. H. C. Colville’s resi-
dence. Sister Loughron has the unique dis-
tinction of having her portrait by a French
artist in the Louvre, as representing the
British Army Nursing Staff of the war
period. Her long term of service gained her
numerous decorations. For a time she was
in Queen Alexandra’s Military Nursing
Reserve.
“The Loves of Robert Burns,” the first all-
talking operetta of the ILM.V. and British
Dominions Films, is expected shortly. Special
interest attaches to this because Austra-
lian-actress Dorothy Seacombe and Eve
Gray, Australian by early adoption, play the
leading feminine roles. The famous tenor
Joseph Hi,slop, whose acquaintance we made
in ’2B, is starred in the name-part.
Newsboys and ex-newsboys, their mothers
and relatives combined to welcome home
from her round-the-world trip the secretary
of the city Newsboys’ Club, Edith Onians.
Miss Onians lias been looking into child-
welfare systems overseas. As a special
magistrate of the Children’s Court in Mel-
bourne, she was out to see what might be
profitably imitated, and perhaps she had a
few hints to give to others. In Los Angeles
they have gone one better than Australia in
having a woman Judge, Dr. Miriam van
Waters, attached to the juvenile courts.
While in England Miss Onians renewed
acquaintance with some former occupants of
our State Government House —Lady Car-
michael, Lady Stanley and Lady Stradbroke.
During her sojourn in Victoria the last-
named used to be as warmly welcomed at
the Newsboys’ Club as the secretary herself.
The alterations and additions to various
hospitals are keeping contractors busy and
workmen in a job. The new block of two
floors and a basement which turns the Eye
and Ear Hospital into an imposing edifice
in the form of a square with a central
courtyard is nearing completion. The equip-
ment of the wards, operating theatres and
other parts of the wing has cost about
£14,000. The hospital is now thoroughly
np to date and offers most welcome facilities
for students as Avell as patients.
The Deaf Mute Centre at Jolimont-square
is rapidly becoming a miniature garden
colony. The other day the Archbishop of
Melbourne blessed the site and Lord Somers
laid the foundation-stone of the chapel. This
bit of the city is full of historic interest,
for here stood Melbourne’s first Government
House. Five or six years ago the square
was purchased for £25,000, but £ll,OOO is
still required to liquidate the debt. The
principal of the centre, E. J. D. Abraham,
interpreted the addresses of the Archbishop
and his Ex. to his keenly-interested charges.
Big trees around our picnic spots have
been placarded with warnings regarding busli-
tires, and admonitions to tourists and cam-
pers have been broadcast by the energetic
promoters of Busli-fire Week. An appeal
has also been made for volunteers, women as
well as men, to hold themselves in readiness
for action during the next two months in
the event of 'all the precautions being in-
effective.
Gertrude Rennie, who has acquired the
tea-and-dance rendezvous at Frankston, once
known as The Fernery but re-christened
Hobson’s Choice, handed over the building
the other afternoon and evening for a car-
nival in aid of the Minton Boys’ Home. This
orphanage has lately been transferred to
Frankston, the new home being perched on
one of the most magnificent sites on Oliver’s
Hill. And now there is a debt of over £5OOO
to be wiped out. The Frankston Auxiliary
was the moving force, with Mrs. J. 11. Dun-
stan president, Mrs. W. Gilbert secretary,
and Mrs. P. Ackman treasurer. Marca
Lucas did the secretarial duties for the hop.
Melbourne’s Mayoress opened the proceed-
ings, and the weather was ideal.
At her annual students’ concert in London
last month the great Marchesi herself sang.
Also she spoke, lamenting the scanty encour-
agement given to music nowadays. In
natural gifts, she said, English singers are
second to none, but they are beaten by Con-
tinental artists largely because they lack
proficiency in foreign languages. In Eng-
land there are inadequate opportunities
for singers, opera having so short a
season and the local warbler not always
receiving her or his due at Covent Garden.
Madame Marchesi’s remarks might well be
digested by Australian songbirds meditating
an operatic career overseas. The famous
teacher made her debut in London 33 years
ago.
Mrs. Dennis Connelly was among depart-
ing passengers on the Mooltan ; her first stay
will be at Simla, India, with her sister,
Mrs. Cardew, whose husband is on General
Birdwood’s H.Q. staff. Mrs. Connelly is a
cousin of Lord Byng, Britain’s Chief of
Police. Her husband is the well-known car-
toonist.


Under*
Royal
Warrant
s
ToH.NL
King,
George V
CHAMPAGNE
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Umitad
SYDNEY.
SWI3U
<*3tsprajis3ij?q^
3 SOVdWVHO
PELLI3SOIM
Cognac Brandy.
10 YEARS OED.
Australasian Asrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
<r
s
<23
The centre of Queens /on c/s
ct/sStngu/sttec/ Soc/o/ LJr&*
igok\
BRISBANE
Magnificent Ball'
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort or
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
A WOMAN'S
LETER
Have you
ordered
Kraft Cheese?
Bong Bong is getting middle-aged and
tired. On its fortieth birthday it was flat
and uninteresting. In times when it was
more remote its picnic meeting was regarded
as a playground of the wool king and the
grain prince. Maybe it was slyly regarded
as a fine marriage market, too. Now Bong
Bong is merely a remote suburb of Sydney
to be taken in the day’s motoring. The
fields aren’t anything to attract the real
racing element, and the whole thing suffers
the fate of that which is neither fish nor
flesh. It lacks both the jolly atmosphere
of the country and tlie sophistication and
excitement of the city. Moreover, the death
of Mrs. Ben Osborne kept a portion of the
well-known clan away from the meeting this
year, and the withdrawal of Harry Osborne’s
Bronze Fuze from the field was another result
of the fatal accident to the lady. Tone, too,
was lost through the absence of president
Tony Hordern, acting-president Norman
Kater and his wife, and the vice-presidential
F. C. Whites. Even the presence of the
State Exes., with Graham and Elaine, could
not make the flutter anything but limp.
However, Mona McLarty and Mrs. Alan
Binnie threw a smile a minute into the
proceedings, the one delighted with the Bong
Bong Cup which Kinnaird laid at her feet,
the second encouraging the dash of her Pooka
and Daayah from a pleasing ensemble of
navy and white, while Sunbeam Mylius
stood beside her in diaphanous pink. Mona
McLarty also favored a pink frock. It was
of pleated voile, while a hat like a luscious
Granny Smith kept off the ardent sun.
The first day was glorified with sunshine
ruffled by a cool breeze. The world was
green and the grandstand new, and if you
were not troubled by the thought that maybe
Bong Bong wasn’t quite as fashionable as
you had been led to expect, you probably
had a whale of a good time. The vice-res.
lunched with secretary Elwyn Blomfield and
his lady in the official tent. Lady de Chair’s
frock was greenly one with the world, and
Elaine’s almond-green coat topped a delicate
pink. Mrs. Elwyn Blomfield looked hand-
some in a jersey suit of honey silk worn with
a yellow hat. Mrs. Henry Charles Osborne
was one of the well-frocked, and Susan
Spencer, Avho came over from Sutton Forest
with the vice-res., wore white banded with
green. The Tom McCarthys held the only
other luncheon party under a roof tree on
the course; for the rest, lunch and tea were
taken with free light and fresh air around
the family car. Philippa Stephen, in a
mastic frock patterned in green, saw Kin-
naird win the Cup which 37 years ago her
father won riding his own horse. Ethel
Campbell brought a carnation-red hat to
the proceedings, while her friend Mollie
McLeish flew her favorite yellow. Marjorie
and Rosemary Osborne represented the
modern set of the old family. Helen Munro,
in vividly patterned scarlet and white, re-
presented Queensland. Shirley Dent was
seen to advantage, and diamonds were worn
by Lucy Mocatta and Helen Cordeaux, the
men in the case being Geoffrey Davey and
Brian Westmaeott. Of those who motored
up from Sydney were Mrs. H’arry Dransfield,
smart in navy-blue and rose. With her were
Mrs. Guy Blaxland and Edna Hill. Mrs.
Norton Knight (Bowral) was among the
well-appointed, Jean and Eileen Anderson
and Betty Willsallcn were decorative young
things, and Mrs. Jimmy Burns and Mrs.
Leslie Willsallen were others whose clothes
pulled the eye their way.
Lady de Chair, her white and black georg-
ette frock covered by a navy repp coat, and
wearing a navy blue hat as subdued as the
day, presented the trophies at the end of
the meeting. Earlier the gees had had their
thunder stolen by stunting qeroplanes. If
this happens again, probably the best horses
will refuse to appear at Bong Bong. And
quite right, too. They don’t go staging races
at Mascot and Richmond on aerial derby
days. All the people who were there the first
day turned up in fresh raiment on this second
day, though many, including their Exes.,
didn’t do it till after lunch.
But the sparkle that was lacking by day
was made up for by night. The Moss Yale
Golf Club’s Ball, held in the showground
pavilion, was the first; and Mollie McLeish
and Ethel Campbell are the star performers
of this yearly fixture. To begin with, they
are the secretaries, and to go on with they
are the decorators. The place was like an
inverted forest of white and black fronds,
while the central lights, with their cascading
white streamers, resembled so many stalac-
tites. The walls were adorned with panels
and plaques of delphiniums and hollyhocks,
and against this background the black satin
and silver raiment of Mrs. Tom McCarthy
(president of the club’s associates) gleamed
handsomely as she and her husband (he s
the club president) made official salaam to
the vice-res. The Viking’s lady looked un-
usually effective in lilac and silver. Elaine,
who emerged vivid from pallid moire that
languished fashionably, had with her girl-
friend Susan Spencer in ivory lace. Shirley
Dent’s flounced blue moires were among the
admirable, and Betty Willsallcn, young and
fair in ivory chiffons, was one to catch the
eye. Mrs. lan Campbell proved again the
attraction of black lace, Helen Munro trailed
ivory satin, and Nora Cordeaux was dashing
in red.
Gloria Terry, daughter of the Claude
Terrys, of Young, was the silver belle of
the Bong Bong Ball—she was the, only deb.,
and with her frock of silver lame and lace
she carried a posy of tiger-lilies find carna-
tions tied with silver ribbon. Elaine de
Chair wore a picture frock of bloom-pink
taffeta, and her mother was wrapped in the
red gold of autumn. Dresses were often
backless, always long, and in many instances
moored by shoulder-straps. Earrings long
and dangling were in evidence, and figures
were outlined tactfully but very definitely.
In fact, Bong Bong dances seemed to indi-
cate that the fair has decided once again
to take up the white woman’s burden and
stagger through life feminine and flounced.
Mrs. Blomfield, who with her husband did
the honors, was handsome in black lace and
chiffons.
When Chief Justice Street’s lady left for
England some months ago she would not
consent to the committee of the Limbless
Soldiers’ Asso-
ciation giving
her a parting
cheerio, al-
though she is
president of
the associa-
tion. But her
practical mind
is smiling with
satis faction
over the offi-
cial welcome-
home she is
having. This
will take the
form of a re-
ception on the
Naldera o n
March 1, when
bridge and
dancing will
be other attrac-
tions. The
Limbless Sol-
diers will benefit, and as over 1000 tickets
have been sent out, and the P. and O. Co.
is giving the boat, the refreshments and the
music, not to mention a pack of cards to
every guest, there should be a fine harvest of
golden grain. The subject of this photograph
Mrs. C. G. Berge, wife of the Macquarie-
street eye-doctor, is the energetic secretary.
The Archibald Prize, that once threatened
to be the Mclnnes endowment, has been won
for the third time by John Longstaff; and
there are the usual whispers that it’s time
veterans stepped down and gave younger
men a chance to travel and study, and so,
perhaps, become front-rankers, too. John
won with a portrait of Willie Holman,
K.C., rather tired but tranquil-looking, dif-
ferent from the slim Holman alert alike
with the tongue and the foils that Sydney
of only a decade ago remembers. Sir Dudley
and those incisive woman-leaders Mrs. Albert
Littlejohn and Mrs. Kenneth Street help to
adorn the walls. Victor Mann, for many
years director of the National Gallery, is in
the collection, but very few others who have
much to do with either art or literature.
The association of John Longstaff and
J. F. Archibald is grey-bearded now. Forty-
three years ago it is since John won the
travelling scholarship that took him to
Europe; and Macleod and Archibald bought
the picture—it still hangs in the private
collection made by William Macleod at
Dun vegan. Shortly afterwards John painted
Archibald’s portrait: you’ll find this among
the 150 illustrations in the Jubilee number
next week. But what more intrigues this
Letter are the portraits of its first four
writers —Sappho Smith (Ina Wildman),
Florence Blair (Mrs. Baverstock), Louise
Mack (Mrs. Creed) and Agnes Conor
O’Brien (Mrs. Macleod) : three of them still
living; dear little Sappho alone fails to
answer the roll-call.
Henry Parkes took a day off last week
from his job of writing songs for the
heavenly choir to go to a wedding; this
Letter simply refuses to believe that the
old Premier who himself went thrice to the
altar didn’t bestow a benevolent smile on
the union of Syd Smith, his last curly-
headed boy and Minister for Mines in his
last Cabinet. Though 73 it was no more
than the ’groom’s second venture. The
bride, Marion Sliand, daughter of Dr. and
Mrs. Shand, of North Sydney, and sister
of Dr. Cappie Shand, of the same suburb,
has known her new husband for 30 years,
and was a war sister. Medicine seems to
attract the gentleman: his first wife was a
sister of Dr. Whalley, one of the old-time
medical men of North Sydney.
Dorothy Lyne, daughter of that fine old
political stalwart William J. and his widowed
lady, stepped forward to Mendelssohn’s im-
pressive chords one night last week. All
Saints’, Woollahra, blessed the vows that
bound her to Guy Law T rence Brown, formerly
of Oxfordshire. A cascade of white chiffon
broke a soft foam of handkerchief points
above white satin slippers. A tulle train
was whisked up the aisle like piled white
of egg, and bridesmaid Ailsa Suther-
land lent the veil, which was of fine
old lace. Ailsa and Margaret Ogilvie,
Dorothy’s friends since schooldays, floated
in the procession in frocks that were curling
waves of golden georgettes. Blue delphiniums
and lilac slippers were further embellish-
ments. Donald Hill best-manned, and
Ronald Cox was the ’groomsman. Black
lace and pink roses adorned the bride’s
mother for the reception at the Arts Club.
All navy blue and brassbound was Lieut.
W. 11. Martin, of the R.A.N., when he and
Isla Murray were spliced by Padre Hugh
Paton in St. Stephen’s last week. Vellum
crepe de Chine weighted with seed-pearl em-
broideries in the amplitude which fashion
demands fell softly about the bride; and
her Brussels lace was served with orange
blossom and a georgette train that swung
from the shoulders. Two coral-pink and one
Coral-red ’maid added color to a procession
in wdiicli best-man Lieut. Carl Oom and two
naval groomsmen also joined. Usher’s Hotel
spread the meats of rejoicing under the
direction of the bride’s parents, the Stuart
Murrays, of Elizabeth Bay. The ’groom’s
home port is Parramatta.
Sydney has had its first •“Red Wedding.”
It happened two Sundays back in the
Communist Hall. The two who desired to
set up house under the Red flag were comrades
Robert Shayler and Grace Peebles. The
two, before Commander Moxon, the general
secretary, and in the presence of witnesses,
declared : “The form of marriage we recog-
nise is the crossing of our hands over the
emblem of the Communist’s International,
the hammer and sickle on the Red Flag.”
There are five clauses in the marriage agree-
ment, one of which states that provision for
any children shall be the equal duty of both
parents. Another is that the home life shall
be based on sex equality. Treachery of one
to the movement or to the other party to
the agreement will break up the union pronto,
but a desire of either party to separate has
to be considered by the other for fourteen
days, after which there must be a consulta-
tion with witnesses before the final decision
is made. Of course, the State doesn’t recog-
nise any such arrangements for either mar-
riage or divorce; but the marriage at any
rate can be regularised by a few minutes
attendance at a registrar’s.
Speed, style and endurance go to the
make-up of the girl in the picture. She is
Clarice Ken-
nedy, just left
school, who
has twice
broken the
world’s record
as a woman
hurdler. O n
Saturday she
sped like an
arrow over the
80 metres
(about S7i
yards) low-
hurdles course
in the amazing
time of 12}
seconds. I n
her first two
attempts t o
lower her own
record she
clipped the
last hurdle,
but determined
to have another try, and this time was
successful. She’s an unassuming youngster
who takes her honors modestly.
Lily Gaffney, the pleasant lady who is one
of the most consistent workers among the
younger set of the Catholic Women’s Asso-
ciation is now Mrs. Hurry. In spite of
the name, her wedding was a dignified
afternoon ceremony at St. Mary’s, and
she dressed her act in lustrous satin, tulle
and rare old lace. Both bride and ’groom
come from Abbotsford. Friend Marion Wild
and small Valeries Venables, f rocked in
snowy white, followed the bride, the first in
blue slippers, the second in pink shoes. Mrs.
N. Gaffney fed them at the Waldorf.
Marcia le Maistre Walker was another
week-end bride. She became Mrs. Trevor L.
Todliunter, of Chatswood, attired in full con-
ventional regalia of satin, lace and tulle.
C. le Maistre Walker armed his daughter up
the aisle of St. Philip’s, and later, helped
by the bride’s aunt, dispensed hospitality,
etc., at the Waldorf.
St. John’s, in Darlingliurst, had a crowded
hour on Saturday when Ruth Worrall, the
elder of the medical Ralph Wor rails’ daugh-
ters, became Mrs. Frank Bragg, of Coota-
mundra. Cream satin of the rarest, fashioned
with a tight bodice and a majestically full
skirt, formed the wedding-frock. Over it
drifted the usual complement of Brussels
lace and tulle, and following it \yere five
sea-green ’maids. Billy Bishop best-manned,
and over 200 guests were refreshed by the
bride’s parents at the Rose Bay Golf Club.
Noni Maas is joining the procession of
April brides. Gordon Mackellar will lead
her to the altar of St. Mark’s.
Phil McLachlan, the pretty little artist
daughter of the Alec J. Mcßachlans, has
engaged herself to Lieut.-Commander John
Collins, of H.M.A.S. Australia, brother of
author Dale Collins.
Blanka Buring, fresh back from Europe,
where she spent her time studying what other
countries are doing in the way of training
their welfare-workers, is aghast at the way
Australia lags behind in this respect. Though,
of course, she knows Australia lias not yet
been faced with the problems existing in
more crowded and less prosperous countries,
still Miss Buring believes in the gospel of
preparedness. As students’ adviser to the
newly formed Board of Social Study and
Training, Miss Buring saw much to interest
her in Sweden and Berlin especially. The
idea behind the training is to have on hand
a supply of skilled people to help develop
social work and handle social problems.
The training includes University lectures on
psychology, economics, hygiene and social
science, besides practical experience in office
work and visits to public and private institu-
tions to see how T the wheels run. When a
pupil gathers in the complete outfit of
diplomas, he or she is equipped to take a
salaried or hofiorary position in public or
private relief work, public administration,
correctional work in connection with juvenile
courts, social service in clinics and hospitals,
child-welfare, factory inspection and many
more by-products of our civilisation. With
so many crutches, the State of the future
ought to swing buoyantly through strikes and
other disasters.
A small gleam in the murk of the coal
strike is due to Mrs. Florence Munday, of
Paddington. A worker’s wife herself, she
had an experience of sufferings when the
timber strike raged which moved her to
organise trips for children of the strikers to
the seashore, where they are fed and shel-
tered and clothed when necessary. She
gathers the money from Sunday collections
in the Domain, and has so far given over 150
children, who had no part in making the
strike, a holiday from the conditions it has
created.
Nancy Weir, the little wonder pianist from
the Riverina, for whom the Gaud Mayor of
Melbourne has launched a £2OOO appeal, was
in Sydney lust week before starting a con-
cert tour which will take in Mittagong and
Geelong, with Albury and Bendigo and many
other towns in between. Then the youngster
returns and will give a Sydney recital on
March 1. Twenty-four days later Nancy
leaves by the Mongolia for Europe with her
mother. Nancy, it will be remembered,
created a sensation when she played Beet-
hoven’s piano concerto with the Melbourne
Symphony Orchestra, directed by Fritz Hart.
Since then the critics continue loud in her
praises. The youngster has a sensitive profile,
and wears her straight hair in a long bob
like a mediaeval page.
For 41 years Miss .Julia McGregor
attended to the mail of Morangarell, near
Temora. Last week the lady, just 82 and
probably the oldest postmistress in the State,
sold her final postage stamp. In her 41
years of office she had never left the dis-
trict, a fact that was commented on the
other day when Morangarell handed the lady
a salvo of applause and a wallet bulging
with 200 pound-notes.
•Nature hates waste; so with the lush
spring came hordes of creeping, crawling,
winging things; and with the creeping,
crawling, winging things came hordes of
other things to prey upon them. Unhappily
in the process we humans suffer; last week
Sydney was shocked by a Lane Cove woman’s
death a few hours after she had been bitten
by a spider of the trap-door variety, and
there have been several cases of sickness
unpleasant but not fatal following other
insect bites. Especially in a season like
this a wise woman won’t touch any spider
knowingly with the naked hand or foot.
If one of any sort nips you, says this Letter s
doctor-friend, cut the incision until the blood
flow's, rub in permanganate of potash, apply
a ligature and seek a medical man.
OVERHEARD.
Country One: “Is her husband very wealthy?”
Town One: “Oh, I don’t think so—she is always
very well dressed!”


A
LEIPZIG SPRING FAIR (GERMANY).
Incorporating Great Engineering and Building Fairs.
BEGINS MARCH 2nd, 1930.
BUYERS GOING ABROAD must visit the Leipzig Trade Fair, the
world’s largest Manufacturing, Industrial and Engineering Exposition.
Introductions arranged. Full information free on request to—
s
Authorised Representatives: C. N. KEPPEL, c/o Marcard Lund & Co., Box 585 D G.P.0., Melbourne.
LARS G. BRUNDAHL. 6 Dailey Street. Box 3127 P G.P.0.. Sydney.
fit*
IF YOU WANT A
SAFE, PROFITABLE
INVESTMENT —
[Whether it be ”1
£lO or £lOOO J
YOU SHOULD READ
THIS BOOKLET!
There is no need to risk a loss of capital to secure a good income
from the money you have to invest. You can obtain up to
interest in an investment that provides absolute safety.
"Collateral Trust Secured 8% Participating Gold Debentures”
will provide you with an immediate income payable every three
months, and, besides, offer many advantageous investment
features that must appeal to you.
Our Booklet, "Investment or Speculation Which Do You
Choose?” tells about this unusual investment opportunity and
explains the difference between investment and speculation.
We will gladly send you a copy free and without
obligation, and as we employ no salesmen, your
answer will not be followed by a call.
MAIL THIS COUPON TO-DAY!
ofAustralta. JCimitecL.
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Send me your booklet, “Invest-
ment or Speculation—Which Do
You Choose?’’
Name
Address
Amusements.
gYDNEY'S CHIEF THEATREST
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: THE NEW MOON.
CRITERION: JOURNEY’S END.
PALACE: THE ENEMY.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
TURNED UP.
With GUS BLUETT, LEO FRANKLYN,
CECIL KELLAWAY.
VEW COMEDY THEATRE,
LEON GORDON in
THE LAND OF PROMISE.
With ADA REEVE.
IJOYT’S D E LUXE THEATRE,
“ MELBOURNE.
The All-Talking Mirthquake,
THE COCK-EYED WORLD.
Featuring VICTOR McLAGLEN, EDMUND LOWE,
LILY DAMITA
(Fox Movietone Special),
And Supporting Programme of Brilliant
Short Talkies.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Position Wanted.
CTATION OWNER. —Housekeeper to one
or two bachelors on station; knows her
job, would do utmost for the interest of her
boss. Good cook, thoroughly competent,
middle-aged. Highest credentials. —No. 191)
this office.
PAXTON HILL RABBITRIES,
St. Neots, England,
are shipping the world’s best full-pedigreed,
first-quality Angora rabbits for wool-farming
at competitive prices. Bucks and does of our
Grand Diploma and Gold Medal strain now
ready. Cable Address: ST. NEOTS, SIXTY-
FIVE.
SCOTCH COLLEGE,
TORRENS PARK, MITCHAM, S.A.
A BOARDING and DAY SCHOOL for
Boys. Headmaster, N. M. G. Gratton,
8.A., Dip. Ed. (Melbourne). Professional,
Commercial and Agricultural Courses.
Prospectus and further particulars may be
obtained from the Headmaster or the Sec-
retary, W. D. C. Paton, F.C.A. (Aust.),
A.M.P. Chambers, Adelaide.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to lcnoio.
THE PATRIOT
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. lIINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
-
»»
WS. mMm s
mrn&m
NOW NEATLY CASED at same price!
A strongly-made grained-leather case is now provided with every Plum
Razor, at no increase in cost. With its blade set to perfection—guaran-
teed and kept in order for two years free—the Plum Razor shaves cleanly,
easily, quickly—leaves the most delicate skin smooth and comfortable.
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 „
Real Ivory Handle . 21/- M
Satin-lined double case free with pair.
7-day Sets—7 Razors in Case.
Black, 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory, 140/-
Post free to any address.
CR AI G & AITK E N, 654 George Street, Sydney.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland's
Distinguished Social Life!
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The beaches at Cottesloe and elsewhere
are packed with bathers; one of this year’s
innovations is the hiring of tents and sun-
shades by the hour. The majority of swim-
mers motor down ready attired for their
surf and sunbake, and every Sunday morn-
ing a fresh batch of mermaids discard their
beach wraps for joyous pyjamas. Among
those who are staying within walking dis-
tance of the sea are the Frank Murrays,
of Roebourne; Mrs. Hancock and daughter
Mollie, the Ned Stirlings, the Carew-Reid
family, Mrs. Meares and her three children,
and the Richard Noble couple and their
family, except son Max, who is playing in
the tennis championships in Melbourne.
This is Beryl Winifred, youngest daughter
of Dr. and Mrs. Battye, who slipped out of
the family fold
into the safe-
keeping of
James Jukes
in St. George’s
C a t h e dral.
Sunset - pink
georgette
fashioned the
tall, slim
bride’s en-
semble. Her
jumper suit
and long
matching coat
trimmed with
gold buttons
were worn
with a picture
hat. Bride’s
sister Mar-
jorie and Joyce
M o r 11 oc k
’maided in
shell-pink
French voile frocks; a third ’maid, the
’groom’s sister Marion, was in white with
lemon embroideries. The feast was spread
at the Savoy. Mackay, Kalgoorlie, clicked
the lens.
Rough water and a stiff breeze made sail-
ing a thrill on the day of the Governor’s
Cup. There were numerous withdrawals
and capsizes, but the 22-footer Eldora, skip-
pered by W. G. Green, showed a turn
of speed that won the race in fast time. His
Ex. acted as judge, viewing the race from
the Nakomis in charge of Vice-Commodore
Felix Levinson. In the clubhouse Sir Wil-
liam handed over the trophy for the last
time—his term of office expires before next
yachting season.
Knight Charles Nathan won the seat in
the Legislative Council caused by the death
of Dr. Saw. The new M.L.C. is Victorian-
born, and spent his boyhood in M.L. He
was a member of the Migration Commission,
filled an official post at the Empire Exhibi-
tion at Wembley, and was the first chairman
of the W.A. Council of Industrial Develop-
ment.
Dozens of suitcases have been packed with
holiday wear and high-minded literature and
labelled “Lesmurdie, Kalamunda.” Their
owners, delegates of the Y.W.C.A., will be
quartered in the hills for 10 days. Busy
secretary Winifred Carruthers has spent
several weeks here preparing for the con-
ference. On the list of visiting delegates
are Dr. Georgina Sweet, Japan’s Yuki
Kimura, Mrs. Pott and Mrs. Austin. Mrs.
George Taylor will chaperone the flock.
Over 500 Y.A.L. boys crammed a lot of
mileage into the 10 days they spent here.
They learnt something about wine-making
at Swan vineyards, more about water at
Mundaring Weir, were given thrills at the
Speedway, and taken for a trip to Rottnest.
Surfing at the beaches and a jaunt to Bun-
bury were other items in the programme.
Mr. and Mrs. Theo Pelloe gave a party in
their King’s Park home in honor of F. J.
Robinson, who has been transferred to the
London office of the National Bank. Most
of the guests were bank folk.
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The Scots kirk, Clayfield, was decked out
with white streamers, bowls of flowers and
ferns for the marriage of William G. Fitz-
gerald to Isabel F. Smith. The bride, who
was given away by her father, wore pink
mariette over ivory crepe de Chine. Betty
and Ida Smith ’maided, one in shell-pink,
the other in lemon mariette and lace. A.
Thomson best manned, and Gordon Smith
was groomsman.
Carrie, daughter of the W. B. Ruddles,
New Farm, announces her engagement to
Randal, younger son of the late Dr. Malcolm
Cameron and of Mrs. Cameron, Clayfield,
Yvonne, daughter of the C. H. Rosses, of
Cloncurry, has accepted the ring that pledges
from Vernon Wettenhall.
Mrs. J. M. Harris, Toowoomba, had a tea
for Esme Eshelby and Miss Weston, Mel-
bourne. Tall vases of gold tiger-lilies and
copper bowls of roses decorated. The hostess
was in white silk voile with a variegated
pattern. Mesdames Eshelby, A. R. Godsall,
S. Davies, S. Stormouth, Beryl Brown,
Elwyn Kent, Ruth Godsall and Rona Davies
were amongst the guests.
Lorna Iliron, of Toowong, who is to be
married to Eric Robinson on the 23rd, has
been the guest at several parties, the largest
of them a “bridge” given by Mrs. J. R. B.
Gillies .in the Atclierley roof-garden.
The third Queensland woman to write
J.P. after her name is Mrs. J. Edgar Young,
of Graceville. She is the youngest daughter
of Robert A. Johnstone, a former P.M. at
Maryborough and Bundaberg—he was the
discoverer of the Johnstone River, where the
prize orchids come from and on whose banks
is the town of Innisfail. Mrs. ioung was
an active member of the Red Cross during
the war.
Arnold Weinholt is back after his seventh
hunting trip to Africa. He left the railhead
at Livingstone in April and returned to
civilisation from the Kalahari Desert and
the society of tongue-clicking bushmen in
November. Once leopards invaded his camp
and killed three of his dogs, one an old
mate from Queensland cattle-camps. Wein-
holt is a man who confesses he has felt
lonely in London, Capetown and Melbourne,
but never in the wilds. He lias now gone
to The Waslipool, Kalbar, his Queensland
home, after some satiric remarks about the
embargo on the export of stud sheep to the
Cape.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The damsels of Adelaide are infusing a
touch of Lido into our beaches. At Victor
Harbor during the heat wave fashions be-
came so gay and daring that a special re-
porter was sent from the city for a week
to try to do them justice. The beach outfit
for a lady who wants to make a splash
runs into money; as well as the bathing
costumes there are the wonderful and weird
pyjamas to pull over them.
There was a good attendance at Victoria
Park on Saturday when the Licensed Vic-
tuallers’ R. C. held their meeting. Chair-
man W. A. Piper and his wife presided at
afternoon tea, Mrs. Piper wearing a navy-
blue georgette frock with primrose-toned
collar, and peanut straw hat in the same
shade. The Premier’s pretty wife was there,
and her wide-brimmed ballibuntal straw hat
matched her costume. Apple green is a
delightful summer shade, and Mrs. F. A.
Tennant’s frock, hat and sunshade made one
of the smartest ensembles on the lawn.
All the seaside resorts are bursting into
carnivals and illuminations; at Glenelg they
hope to realise £lOOO over the “king” con-
test alone. The new electric-railway cars
have helped to draw the crowd, and the fore-
shore is a blaze of colored lights.
The Italian Consul (Signor A. Grossardi)
and his family were entertained at a dinner
at the South Australian Hotel and another
gathering at the Piccadilly Caf6 by their
compatriots in Adelaide during their stay
here.
The inter-University swimming contests
were a feature of the past week. The Adel-
aide Uni. Women’s Swimming Club, of which
Mrs. H. V. Menz is president, entertained
the visitors during their stay. Six girls
came from Sydney and five from Melbourne.
Constance Ure, Mollie Davies and Betty
Corbin are the Adelaide competitors. Motor
trips to beauty spots were arranged, and
there was a farewell luncheon at the Went-
worth tearooms on Saturday.
Mrs. W. J. Cleary, wife of the Ma State’s
new Railway Commissioner, arrived by the
Karoola on a visit to her brother, Frank
Lewis, of Hyde Park.
A plan that may bring Melbourne money
to Adelaide is a projected hotel in North-
terrace. The suggested Hotel Adelaide
next door to the Adelaide Club, came to
nothing; the present idea is to rebuild the
Terminus opposite the railway station on
the lines of the Alexander in Melbourne,
though local regulations will not allow any-
thing like the Alexander’s 160 ft. of height.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
This picture,
made at the
M c G u ff e e
Studios, shows
Gollan Lewis,
the Speck's
Rhodes Scholar
for 1930. His
Ex. presided
over a full
attendance of
the committee
that chose
him. Lewis
will specialise
at Oxford in
history and
English litera-
ture.
Mayor and
M a y o ress
Sou n d y ex-
tended a wel-
coming hand
to the Allan
Wilkies at the Town Hall before the open-
ing of the Shakspeare season at the Theatre
Royal. The leading lady wore a picturesque
cape of Black face-clotli and a large ecru
felt hat.
Thirteen Midland bachelors defied super-
stition, and gave a ball at Powell's Hall,
Campbelltown; Percy Keach showed him-
self an alert hon. sec., and D. Armitage’s
orchestra, from Launceston, furnished the
music. Pink roses and sweet-peas in masses
were arranged in the dancing hall and on
the supper tables.
The I. C. Boyeses and their daughters
Alison and Jess hostessed a bright dance
for Barbara Reed before her marriage to
Don Von Bibra.
Brighton races furnished the usual good
excuse for town folk to pass a day in the
country and for country folk to put on their
glad rags and polish up the car and pack
their picnic baskets. J. Swan, president of
the Brighton Jockey Club, presented George
Cann with the cup donated by Thos. Lyons.
Lieut.-Commander Paul Hirst, captain of
H.A.M.S. Success, and his bride (formerly
Eve Carruthers) are honeymooning in the
Speck.
Mrs. Wordsworth James and her son Col.
Tristram James have been renewing old
friendships in the little island after years
spent in almost every part of Australia.
The funeral of the late Col. J. H. Bisdee,
V.C., who died at Melton Mowbray, took
place at Jericho with full military honors.
It was followed by the funeral of his eldest
sister, Miss Lucy Bisdee, who passed away
on the day after her brother’s death.


WALLABY EMPERORS ”
Pike Brothers Famous
RIDING BOOT
A Soft, Durable Wallaby Leather, built
on a. comfortable fitting last, con-
forming to every Riding principle.
Built without seams, with
standard screwed single sole
—a Light Riding Boot, yet
has tenacious strength, and
a rugged insistence to wear.
PAIR.
Write to Desk “5.8.”
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
Townsville BRISBANE Toowoomba
ś
p
IN
1
%
St. George
Greatest Delicaey-
—and fast becoming Australia’s. Tiny incb-long fish,
unique in flavour, whitebait is found only in sparkling
New Zealand streams, then for but three months of the
year.
You, however, can have it the year round, with all its
original freshness and flavour, for it is canned on the
banks of the rivers the same day as it is caught.
Try it. St. George Canned Whitebait will give you a
new meaning for the word “delicious.”
IRVINE AND STEVENSON’S
ST. GEORGE COMPANY, Ltd
Dunedin
New Zealand
ST. GEORGE Delicacies
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 Georse Street, Sydney.
Merry Christmas!
BY ARTHUR GROOM
IILuriDATED BY HARPY J. WEXTON
CHAPTER XXIX.
Helen Gets a Call.
PEGGY and Sandy sat very close to-
gether in the light of a quaint new
moon. They talked of idiotic things.
Ten minutes before Dr. Lowndes had
ordered them away from Jim Walters’s
bedside, where they had publicly announced
their engagement to be married at the same
time as he and Helen Delaney.
But in crestfallen confession Sandy had
told Peggy of Walters’s difficulty. A pecu-
liar sense of decency forced him to do it.
“We must do something,” she declared,
and Sandy was overwhelmed with grati-
tude. Devotion was in his voice when he
answered, and told her of his plans—how
if he rang Helen Delaney and put a bad
report before her he might get her to pro-
mise to come up to Warkon as soon as the
weather permitted.
“She’ll never get here,” Peggy declared
dubiously. “It’s hot enough to bring up
a terrific storm. Look at the moon, Sandy.
Look at all the stormclouds getting across
it. Look at all that lightning down near
Boolgooroo. And Hinton’s left his car up
here. There’s nothing else to come in un-
less it’s a waggonette or something. That’d
take two or three days.”
“I don’t reckon it’ll do any harm to ring
her up. anyway,” Sandy replied solemnly.
“I’ll tell her all about Jim still wantin’ this
girl Helen. I’ll say he’s gettin’' terrible
bad again. We can’t go wrong.”
“You’d better hurry,” Peggy advised
firmly.
When Sandy entered the post office he
was almost pounced upon by the post-
master.
“Miss Delaney, from Boolgooroo, has been
trying to get a call through to you.”
“I just blew along to ring her up,” Sandy
replied breathlessly.
Within a minute he was through.
Jack Hinton was many miles from the
Boolgooroo homestead. He was out to-
wards the south-western corner of the run
on an inspection. Very few of the stock-
men were in at the homestead.
The sharp telephone summons fell upon
the ears of Mrs. Hinton and her niece.
“I’ll answer it,” Helen said, rising with
a sudden eagerness. “I suppose it’s only
someone after uncle.”
She hurried down the verandah, entered
the office and raised the receiver.
“Hullo!” Raindrops commenced to
patter on the iron roof and vivid lightning
flashed many miles away.
“Hullo!” a voice answered back, and the
rain commenced to fall more heavily.
Helen closed the office door and huddled
closer to the ’phone. It seemed as though
the rattle of rain hissed against the single
wire across its hundred and thirty two miles
of space to Warkon.
“That Boolgooroo?”
“Yes. Miss Delaney speaking.”
“It’s me—Sandy Jackson. I got some
more news about Jim Walters, an’ I thought
maybe you’d like to know.
“What is it?”
“He’s had a relapse.”
“A relapse—a relapse!” Helen Delaney
felt weak. “What happened?”
“Loss of blood, an’ he’s still callin’ for
that girl I was tellin’ you about,” Sandy
continued mercilessly. “Doctor says she
must be found. He’ll have a crisis in about
forty-eight hours maybe.”
“Is—is doctor handy?”
Helen asked weakly.
“Er—doctor’s a bit deaf
in her ears,” Sandy lied
quickly. “She can’t hear no-
thin’ much over telephones.”
“Oh!” Helen’s tone was one of dismay.
“Is Jim—Mr. Walters very bad?”
“He’s worryin’ himself to death for this
girl,” Sandy continued to lie.
Helen gasped. The full horror of the
situation struck her and almost numbed
her.
“An’ doctor says it’s bad for him, damn
bad, Miss. Don’t you think you could
let this girl know she’s wanted? Wanted
bad?”
“I’ll try my best—to get hold of her.”
Helen’s voice was little more than an
agonised whisper. “But I’m afraid it will
be almost impossible. The roads are ter-
rible—impossible for a vehicle, I think. I
don’t know how I—how the girl would get
through.”
“Of course he mightn’t die when this
crisis that they talk of comes,” Sandy
added, as though after serious thought.
“Maybe if it clears up fine to-morrow the
girl could come. Maybe she could come
by aeroplane. That’s if she lived in a town
anywhere. Or she could ring up the
’Curry”
Helen felt a sudden rush of hope. She
knew a great relief. An aeroplane! She
hadn’t thought of that.
“I forgot about an aeroplane,” she said
eagerly. “I think I can get in touch with
this Helen. I will get in touch with her—
of course —and she’ll probably come by
aeroplane.”
For a few seconds Helen Delaney looked
at the silent telephone. She felt strangely
glad. An aeroplane!
Helen decided that she would ring Clon-
curry for a Q.A.N.T.A.S. ’plane to fly
“special” to Boolgooroo first thing in the
morning. She would then be in at Warkon
before the threatened crisis in Jim’s illness
was due.
With an unspoken prayer she turned
again to the telephone; and for the next
fifteen minutes tried to raise Cloncurry;
but no sound came to her ears except the
low rumble of the approaching storm. The
night was almost deathly beneath its blan-
ket of sapping heat.
Desperately she tried to call Bretwood,
many miles south-east; but her ringing
brought no response. The storm was sweep-
ing up from that direction, and no doubt
had tom the line down. There was only
one avenue left. That was to ring Warkon
and get the postmaster to wire to the
Q.A.N.T.A.S. aerodrome at Cloncurry
through the northern circuit.
Warkon answered her at the third ring.
The postmaster’s slow voice sounded weak
and far away.
“Is that Warkon?” she asked.
“Warkon speaking.”
“Hullo! I want you to send an urgent
telegram to Cloncurry.”
The postmaster’s voice returned out of
the stormy night. It was growing fainter
—fainter.
“All communication with Cloncurry is cut
off. The line is down for three miles in
one place. Repairs will not be effected for
three or four days—sorry!”
Despair seized Helen Delaney. She
clutched the receiver, trying to catch the
voice again before it died altogether.
“Isn’t there another way word can go
through? Isn’t there any other line?”
“.Only the Normanton route, and it’s
washed down in parts too. There is no
way at all. We’re completely”
Thunder crashed heavily in the pitch
darkness outside, and the line went sud-
denly dead. Helen dropped the receiver,
glanced at it in dumb despair, then walked
outside and along into her bedroom.
The darkness was She could
hear Mrs. Hinton’s chair rocking softly in
the dining-room. Mr. Hinton she knew
was away at an out-station. There was
not a man at the homestead to whom she
could appeal.
She rose and stepped out on to the wide
northern verandah. She saw water well
up and stream away, glistening vividly
when lightning flashed across the sky. The
air cooled a little; spray whipped across
her face.
She had to get to Warkon, but how?
There was not a suitable light vehicle on
the place, and if there had been all the
harness horses were miles out in the dis-
tant spelling horse-paddock—all that were
left were the two night horses in the small
paddock behind the stockyards.
Suddenly a wild thought forced Helen’s
hand to her mouth, and she stopped still
in the glare from a flash of lightning. She
almost cried out with the thought, com-
posed herself with a huge effort, fumbled
back and found a deckchair.
Harlequin—he was in the night paddock.
He had been one of the greatest horses in
the land. She had ridden him often. He
was quiet, trustworthy, and still fairly
sound in wind. If only she could take Har-
lequin!
But the thought seemed idiotic. Warkon
was a hundred and thirty-two miles away,
and it was a gruelling ride for a man even
with a change of mounts. To push one
horse through, and especially an old horse,
would be almost murder.
“But I am lighter than a man!” Helen
murmured the words in wild hope.
Lightning flashed criss-cross down to the
ground within a few miles of the home-
stead, and the rainstorm increased in
strength.
As Helen Delaney turned the thought
over in her mind the urge grew stronger
within her. Perhaps, if luck held, she
could win through. But it would be neces-
sary to get away unobserved. No one
would allow her to move a yard otherwise.
She had been to Warkon before in day-
light. Provided she got on to the right
track at the start it would not be impos-
sible to follow it, even in the night, for
it had only one or two turn-offs.
Without wholly making up her mind
Helen entered her bedroom and quietly
and methodically changed into khaki riding
costume. The storm reached its zenith,
thrashed angrily on the iron roof for fully
half an hour without any sign, then swept
on with a dying hiss.
She donned a light raincoat, stole out
into the kitchen, stuffed some cheese and
a packet of raisins into a small oatmeal
bag, then stepped out into the night.
Harlequin ran in a little paddock north
of the stockyards. Beside the yards a
saddle-room loomed in the night.
Helen felt her way among the tangle of
harness within. She struck and sheltered
a match. Saddles lay in the moving
shadows before her. Stock saddles—poleys
—a full array. She saw one used by the
horse-breaker. It appealed to her. She
had never used such a saddle before; but
somehow it appeared as though it would
support her when she tired. She pulled it
from its peg, threw a bridle and cloth over
it and went out in the mud in search of
Harlequin.
CHAPTER XXX.
Helen’s Ride to Warkon.
Helen Delaney took her bearing from the
single light shining in the dining-room of
the house. She pictured her aunt still
peacefully reading and rocking in her chair.
The track from the stockyards joined on
to the main track from the store, and ran
down towards the Georgina. Helen knew it
well, though she quickly discovered that it
presented a new aspect when seen from
horseback through the depths of night. She
recognised small bushes, stones, hollows
now gleaming dully with water, until the
first silted gully opened up before her. Har-
lequin labored through, drawing his power-
ful legs from the clinging, sucking mud.
The river was running—it had been run-
ning for days. Previous to that it had not
run for twenty months. It had fallen four
or five feet within the last forty-eight hours,
but was again rising, though very slowly.
It would rise suddenly when the top flood-
waters came down, perhaps to-morrow or
next day.
Helen glanced about, trying to recognise
landmarks. The Stony Crossing was a
favorite spot of hers on hot afternoons.
There were a few nice shade trees beside
it. It was where the ambulance car had
crossed before the river had run any height.
As near as she could guess the water
moved about three feet deep in the centre.
The current was sluggish and not danger-
ous.
Harlequin entered the water, stayed a
while, drank a mouthful, then glanced up
and around. He breathed uneasily. Be-
yond the chuckling of the running water
the night seemed dead.
A few stars commenced to shine dimly
overhead. Storm clouds broke slowly and
floated away like black shadows.
“Harlequin,” she said, “we’ve got to get
across.”
Her voice was deep with appeal. Un-
consciously she kicked the horse with her
heels, and he obeyed the summons. Slowly
he forged across the stone-built crossing
until horse and rider stood on the eastern
bank.
Harlequin pulled and tried to turn back
to the homestead. He seemed to realise
that this was no fair task he had been set.
“No, no, you mustn’t—you mustn’t play
up!” she protested, and glanced desperately
around her. The gleam of the river reas-
sured her, and she looked closely round
searching for a big dead tree she knew well.
The track went out beside it. She saw
it rising like a tall, gaunt skeleton. Harle-
quin responded to her heels and trotted up
the slippery slope towards it. The track
wound out beyond the tree, past a clump
of bushes and on to a plain. Stones, still
wet, flashed in the starlight.
Harlequin picked his way like a bush-
man. Little of the road could be seen,
but that little he saw. Helen’s own eyes
grew more accustomed to the darkness;
the growing starlight spread a bluish glow
over everything. At intervals bare patches
of pebbly ground crossed the road, causing
the track to disappear altogether; but Har-
lequin scarcely faltered. His head dropped
a little in inspection; but that was all.
She tried to remember the time and sup-
posed it would be between nine and ten
o’clock. Warkon was a hundred and thirty-
two miles from Boolgooroo. If she tra-
velled eight miles an hour, which Jack
Hinton had once told her was a fair pace
for a long ride, she should reach Warkon
in between sixteen and eighteen hours.
Harlequin stumbled and splashed heavily
into a pool of water, snorted in mock alarm


s
ś
ŝ
ş
š
ſ
s
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD.
Total Assets exceed £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Asnociation and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sue. assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
( 5> In the even t of loss of eye or limb through acciaent, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately,
(o) PERSONAL ACCIDEx.I End Combined Penefit Policies provide for nlmost cvoiy contingency
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER lIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN'S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
and broke into a trot. He dropped his
head and smelt fresh cattle tracks; water
was still trickling down into the broken
mudholes. Harlequin neighed softly; his
body quivered eagerly. Cattle were a keen
draw to him. He pulled strongly on the
reins.
Would she get there? Helen asked herself
the question once and scorned to ask it
again. Of course she would get there!
She would soon be crossing the creeks on
the homestead side of the border. What
could stop her from going right through?
“What other people can do I can do,”
she murmured, though with a sense of mis-
giving. “That first creek ought to be due
soon.”
She forced Harlequin a little. Almost
all the clouds had gone before the stars,
and a cool breeze was blowing. It would
freshen the horse. She longed to push him
into a canter. But she knew she must not.
If he fell—she shuddered when she thought
of it, and a short piayer formed itself
upon her lips. Jim Walters had been in-
jured by a fall!
“I’m coming,” she whispered.
A lump rose in her throat and threatened
to unnerve her. She shook herself almost
angrily at her own weakness.
Trees were looming up against the dim
skyline. She could see a few low stars
twinkling through the branches. Away be-
yond themi another broad, black plain
spread far away. She felt Harlequin steady-
ing himself down a rough slope.
The murmur of the running creek came
to her well before she reached it. She list-
sued to the growing sound of water; rising
from a whisper to a groan, then the chuckles
of water falling over exposed roots of trees
md big rocks. The creek ran high.
Harlequin stopped at the water’s edge
and snorted in fear. He walked a- little
:o either side of the track, then stayed
igain.
“Harlequin!” Her cry was desperate with
appeal. “Harlequin —come on!”
She slapped the horse with the overlap of
the reins, and felt him start forward.
He entered the water, felt his way slowly,
breathing quickly. Helen eased her feet
from the stirrups and hunched high on the
deep saddle. She had often heard Jack
Hinton insist upon the value of throwing
one’s feet from the stirrups when swimming
a horse across a stream.
Harlequin stumbled over a submerged
rock, went down. Helen felt the water
surge up, felt its coldness strike through
her clothes, up beyond her waist. Then
Harlequin bumped against something im-
movable, grunted and rose again. He had
gained firm footing and was almost on the
northern bank. Something caught on her
own left foot, dragged at her, almost pulled
her from the saddle, then snapped. Harlequin
stumbled out on to the bank, stopped and
lowered his head. Helen discovered the
reins had broken and were dangling to the
ground. With another horse it might easily
have spelt disaster. But Harlequin was
different. Within a second she was on the
ground and knotted them securely. A
twinge of pain darted through her instep
as her weight came upon it.
She went to mount again, raised her hand
to Harlequin’s neck* felt a wet warmth and
drew her hand away. She held it up to the
starlight.
“Harlequin!” she exclaimed. “You’re
hurt!”
She examined him swiftly, feeling softly
with both hands on his strong neck. She
traced the blood upwards to a spot a few
inches behind his head, then she felt a
jagged cut—two, perhaps three, inches long.
Harlequin shivered and shifted a little
from her.
“And I’m afraid I have nothing to stop
it with,” Helen told him. “But perhaps
it’s not so bad after all.”
She mounted again, convinced in her
mind that Harlequin needed attention. Yet
he trotted on just as quickly as before—•
out through the creek timber and again
on to the plain. At intervals Helen leant
forward on his neck and felt the wound.
It still bled, but very slowly now.
“We’ve got White’s Creek to cross yet
before we get to the border,” she said.
‘After that there are no creeks of any size
—Harlequin! Do you think you‘can stand
it?”
Harlequin continued his plodding. Trees
became more plentiful, the plain gave way
to sandy hills, then to flood country and
*wampy ground. Within a few minutes
the overhanging trees fringing White’s
Creek loomed up.
Helen listened with almost stilled heart
for the tell-tale murmur of running water.
She could hear nothing. She told herself
joyfully that White’s Creek wound many
miles across the plains, and that the waters
from the last storm would not be down yet.
“Harlequin, I think we’ll get there, don’t
you?” she said pleadingly. Harlequin
steadied into a walk. He was blowing a
little.
Two green eyes set close together almost
froze her. They glared for just a passing
second from the deeper shadows of a coola-
bah-tree scarcely thirty feet away. Then
darkness took their place—jet black, mys-
terious darkness.
Helen forced Harlequin on. She had seen
a dingo. A dingo was harmless, she knew;
but the two eyes, gleaming like blue points
of hot flame, hung in her mind. She felt
she was being watched as she rode, and
turned every now and then to glance quickly
behind. A boring sensation in her back
made her blood run cold, and she wanted
to scream.
The uncanny feeling continued until two
big black posts warned her of the heavy
double wire gates on the Northern Terri-
tory border. Queensland swept away darkly
ahead. She dismounfed gladly. The border
was a dog-proof fence. She would leave the
hateful presence behind.
“I’m feeling tired already, Harlequin,”
she said in an attempt to reassure herself
as she closed and latched the two gates
behind her. “I don’t think we’ve come
more than a quarter of the way; and it
must be well after midnight. Look at the
stars. They’ve changed a lot, Harlequin!”
Her limbs were growing stiff from the
j olting in the saddle; her tired muscles were
an agony.
On the Queensland side of the border
fence the road was more distinct. The
grass had been eaten lower by many cattle.
Deep shadows in the road showed where
the ambulance car had ploughed along
during its journey from Warkon to Bool-
gooroo. Helen experienced a shudder each
time she felt Harlequin step away from
the ruts. They would last almost for ever,
a reminder of what the Bush could do fo.r a
sick man.
“Isn’t this just a country?” she asked her
horse. “For over a year we never had a
drop of rain, and now all this—just be-
cause Jim is in danger!” g
She shook her head every few minutes
to throw off the deadly hypnotism of tired-
ness. She tried riding a little sideways in
the saddle, and found that the novelty
brightened her mind for a short distance.
She tried speaking as though Jim were with
her, but discovered herself saying things
which sounded ridiculous.
“We’ll get there, won’t we, Harlequin?”
she asked again after riding with one leg
over the near kneepad. “The trouble is to
keep awake, Harlequin, and we haven’t got
half-way yet.”
Suddenly she remembered the small
bag of food. The cheese refreshed her a
little, and she ate almost half of it; then
she commenced to eat raisins slowly at
calculated intervals, which seemed to keep
her mind occupied sufficiently to drive off
the hovering cloud of sleep.
The wind grew colder. Harlequin’s action
became slower and stiffer. He stumbled,
tried to stop altogether once or twice, then
slowly but surely developed a bad limp.
Helen dismounted, picked up his front feet,
tried to examine them in the darkness, but
could find nothing. Something told her
that Harlequin would not last much longer.
“Loss of blood!” she said desperately.
Disaster stared at her, forced its meaning
upon her. The horse would never reach
Warkon!
She led Harlequin a few hundred yards
along the road. The changed action eased
her limbs a little, and she moved quite
briskly till the ground got firm and she
mounted again. The horse broke into a
slow trot, but his action was clumsy.
Away in the east Helen discovered a first
faint promise of approaching daylight.
“Thank God!” she whispered. Her face
worked uncontrollably, and tears rolled
down. “I—l can keep awake now.”
She watched the daylight grow slowly—
very slowly at first. It seemed as though
she had covered miles and miles between
its first glimpse and when the grey of dawn
spread well out across the sky. She whipped
a twig from a twisted tree, cleared it of
leaves and commenced to use it lightly.
She leant forward and looked at the
horse’s neck. The wound was a thick ooze
of blood. “Harlequin, I don’t know what
I’ll do when you—you”
She could not finish the sentence. Some-
thing warned her that she was riding the
horse to death. She felt ashamed and
guilty. Yet what else could she do? Per-
haps when Harlequin gave out—the thought
was terrifying—she could walk the rest of
the way.
The growing daylight chased all sleepi-
ness away, but, she felt an almost unbear-
able stiffness in her back.
For a mile or two Harlequin seemed to
toss a similar weariness from him. Head
down, he plodded on as the sun approached
the horizon. But he did not glance up
from the wet, glistening mud ahead, even
when the sun burst from beneath a light,
fanciful cloud.
Out on the broad plain to the left a
large, lonely rock drew closer, came level
and gradually fell behind. “The half-way,”
Helen mused. “I wonder what those other
things are?”
The rising sun had chased all shadows
from the plain; but three or four miles
ahead a number of dark blots beneath two
trees signified something. “Cattle,” Helen
murmured to herself. “I don’t think you’ll
manage to go much further than those two
trees, Harlequin.”
That would leave her about sixty-five
miles to walk! Well, she had heard of
people walking more than a hundred miles.
It if weren’t for the pains in her body
As the distance to the two trees less-
ened, Helen held her breath in doubt. She
saw something stand up and move away.
“A man!” Her voice was eager. “Har-
lequin, a man—he has horses!”
Within half a mile of the two trees Har-
lequin raised his head, neighed brokenly,
then stumbled on. He had seen!
The man walked out and stood to one
side of the nearest tree, and Helen discov-
ered that he was rolling up his camping
gear to continue on the road. He stood
still, and as Helen approached over the
last sho)-t distance, he took his old hat off
and scratched an almost bald head.
With a deep effort Harlequin shambled
over the last few paces to the waiting
horses.
CHAPTER XXXI.
Helen Takes a Chance.
George Hockett stood looking open-
mouthed. Then, “Hullo!” he said suddenly,
and repeated the observation many times.
Harlequin stopped and lowered his head.
Helen slid from the saddle.
“That there nag’s jiggered, Miss.” George
Hockett spoke as though he delighted in
giving the information. “He’ll die.”
Helen paused in throwing the saddle from
Harlequin.
“He’s come such a long way,” she replied
simply. “Through mud and everything
Which horse may I take?”
“What horse?” George Hockett straight-
ened himself.
Helen Delaney pointed in a puzzled
manner.
“Those horses”—she asked breathlessly—
“don’t they belong to Boolgooroo?”
“No, Miss; they don’t. They belong to
me.”
“0—ooh!” Helen drew a breath of dis-
may. “I—l saw the Boolgooroo brand. ]
thought”
“Well, you thought wrong!”
George Hockett seemed a little peeved
at her mistake.
“But I thought you worked on Boolgoo-
roo. I think I’ve seen you before?”
“Worked there once. A man’s better off
not working. Especially for the likes of
Jack Hinton.”
Helen felt a blow of despair. Harlequin
could not carry her further. It was impos-
sible. She would have to persuade the man
to change horses.
“Do you know this horse?” she asked,
pointing to Harlequin.
“I do. He won a lot of races in his day.”
“I would appreciate it very much if you
would change me one of yours for him.”
Helen’s voice was eager.
“What?” George Hockett’s face grew
sullen. “Pie’s close up dead.”
“But listen to me.” Helen came a step
forward. “I’ve got to get to Warkon. I’ve
—l’ve got to, don’t you understand! I’ve
been riding without a stop from the home-
stead. I’ve got to get something special
for a very sick man.”
Astonishment figured on Hockett’s face.
He looked at Helen Delaney as though he
considered her mad.
“What the blazes are you doing riding
round the country like this?” he snapped.
“Medicine me hat! You’re not after medi-
cine. They’d send a man to get things for
sick people. Anyway, if you’re from Bool-
gooroo you can go to blazes. It might
teach Hinton to be a bit more damn care-
ful who he sacks!”
“I can offer you money, besides giving
you Harlequin,” Helen declared in an
attempted brave voice.
“How much?” Hockett’s eyes narrowed
quickly.
“Ten pounds.”
“Where is it?”
“I—l haven’t got it on me; but I could
give you a note to my aunt—she’d give
it to you.”
“That’s no good to me,” Hockett
protested stolidly. “If you can buy one
of my horses for ten pounds you can pay
your ten pounds now. Anyway, a ten-
pound horse won’t carry you to Warkon.
You’d want that there saddle mare of
mine.” He turned and pointed to a fine
brown mare saddled beneath one of the
trees. “She’s for sale at fifty quid; but
as you don’t have fifty she’s not for sale.”
“I’ll give you a hundred if you’ll collect
it at Boolgooroo!” Helen’s voice was
almost hysterical.
Hockett paused. He was torn in doubt.
Suddenly his face hardened again.
“I’ve been took down by women too
damn often,” he answered with a vicious
curl of his lip. “If you want the mare,
pay now. If you don’t want her you’ll have
to use your own nag—or wait for somebody
to turn up.”
“You’re a cur—an utter cur!” Helen
wheeled on him. “You’re a disgrace to a
nation of men!”
Hockett turned to his pack-bags. Helen
could see his grim face. Her eyes swam in
tears. She wondered at his brutal hardness.
She knew his anger was scarcely in check,
and felt like adding further to her storm
of abuse; but she realised that that might
spell irretrievable disaster. And she still
had a rav of hope.
(,To he concluded next week.)
To Faithless Celia
(An Old-fashioned Lyric.)
Think not because your love is lost
to me
That no sweet joys are left.
And I am all bereft
Of loveliness and passion. Lady, see
Much still is mine and will not faith-
less bg.
There is the little tender kiss of
wind,
The silvei' arms of rain
To clasp me close again.
Bright Celia, never doubt that I shall
find t
A mistress gay as you and far more
kind!
There's twilight deeper than your
shadowed eyes,
Midnight more calm and fair
Than .your so tremulous hair;
And passioned noons which, lathed in
beauty, rise,
Yielding to earth, nor mode a lover's
sighs,
Your body's fragrance hides in every
flower,
Grace in each dancing leaf.
Shall I then yield, to grief?
/ shall not mourn you for one saddened
hour!
:J:
Alas! I would indeed I had such power!
QUEENSLAND.
D. L. WARAKER.


Accommodation
160.
Central,
Comfortable,
Convenient,
6 Mts. G.P.O.
Excellent
Cuisine,
Billiards,
Dancing.
ORIENTAL HOTEL
(No License)
KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET.
TARIFF:
Weekly,
£3/3/- to
£4/4 1-
Daily,
11/6 to 12/6.
Room & B’fast,
8/6 to 9/6
FL2034
F 3575
Hand finished to.
ensure perfection
The finishing touches given to every
Kropp Razor before it is sent out from the
works are an essential part of the opera-
tions to produce this perfect instrument.
The Kropp Razor is entirely British and is
the product of skilled Sheffield craftsmen.
The
ALL- BRITISH
KROPP
never requires grinding
Black, Ivory or Xylonite handles. From the usual dealers.
AVOID SUBSTITUTES: Every genuine Kropp
stamped “Made and ground in Sheffield, England.
Wholesale only: OSBORNE GARRETT & CO., LTD., London, England.
/i
Gl
1,1 a 1
>
.1
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Quiet— Bestful—Cool—Open to the Summer Sea Breezes. With Private Beach Amphitteatre
Baths. Incomparable for comfort—Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds and Garage
Accommodation.
Tariff from 4| guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes’ trip f rom City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines).
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes your fancy,. write
to the Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
mm
mm
mm
iH
;
"Cf
KSgX
Race Crowds Thrill as Exciting
Finish Puts Nerves on Edge!
m
A great hush. Thousands hold their breaths; the
favourite is winning by a narrow margin. A few
seconds more and fortunes will be won and lost.
Wait! A single gasp from the tense, packed
throng. A rank outsider has flashed to the front
—has WON, at the longest odds in years! .. .
All in the game, my boys, but it’s hard on the nerves. Better
take a couple of Cream of Yeast tablets while you get used
to the shock. Thousands do it every day, including
many famous people. Cream of Yeast picks you up
at once. No waiting. Just two or three handy tablets
and you’re better and brighter ; nerves steady ; a cheery
smile, as befits a good sport. No need for a ‘spot’; no need
for innumerable cigarettes when you take Cream of Yeast.
It’s a wonderful stand-by for the man who sometimes takes
a sporting chance . . . for the race-goer, the motorist, and
even the harassed business man. Come now, here s a winner
—a sure thing to remedy digestive trouble, sleeplessness, bad
nerves and run-down feeling. 24 tablets, i/nd, 48 for 3/od.
at any chemists or stores.
MM*
m
mm
mm
sfWvSSi
-
m
...
M
.
m
m
i
m
M'
CREAM OF YEAST IS LIFE!
Amalgamated Laboratories, Kembla Building, Sydney.
The Purple Q.
JIM GRAHAME
TELLS WHAT HAPPENED WHEN RED RYAN WAS
CHARGED WITH SHEEP-STEALING.
RED R£AN dropped the wet sheepskin
he was about to fling on the rail, bent
low over the dangling head and then
poked something deep into the glowing coals
of a fire burning close by. “Git!” he said to
his companion; “here’s a policeman.”
As the trooper dismounted and walked
slowly across the yard he looked fresh-faced
and boyish.
“Good-day, Ryan; you seem to be killing
a good many sheep,” he said.
Under his red beard Ryan’s jaws were
rigid, but he answered easily enough: “Oh,
yes. Doin’ a bit of butchering amongst the
opal-miners over on the range.”
“I suppose you’ve got your license?” the
officer asked, and not waiting for an answer
looked closely at the dead sheep.
“Fine fat sheep! Where did you get
them?” he asked; then, fingering the scalped
heads, “Where are the ears?”
Ryan’s jaws clicked again, and he looked
puzzled for a moment. “Why,” he said,
“the dogs must have eaten them. I never
leave them on the skins —they attract the
weevils.”
As the trooper went over and poked at
the fire, raking out this and that, Ryan
became still more communicative. “I always
burn the offal,” he volunteered, “as it brings
the crows and ants in thousands.”
The trooper said nothing till he had exam-
ined one of the skins closely. Then “Where
did you say you got these sheep, Ryan?”
he asked.
Ryan’s scowl was ugly. “I bought them
from Pat Miller over on the creek. But
what the hell’s it got to do with you?” he
barked.
“It’s got this to do with me—these sheep
are the property of Quilty station. Here
is their private mark,” and he pointed to
a small purple Q on the bare fleshy part
beneath the forearm.
The jaw beneath the red whiskers dropped,
and as Ryan stooped to finger the skin the
handcuffs clicked on his wrists.
But Ryan’s brain was working quickly.
“Well, now that you’ve got me, what are
you going to do?” he asked.
“I’ve got you all right,” replied the
trooper. “When the coach comes I’ll tie
my horse beside the leaders, and you and
I will travel together to town.” As he
answered he was rolling the two sheepskins
tightly, before tying them up in a chaffbag.
When the trooper stood up with the
bundle beneath his arm Ryan in a friendly
tone suggested that as there were two hours
to wait for the coach they “might as well
have' a bit of dinner over at the house.
There’s only the boy Marty and the Chow
cook,” he said.
The trooper carried the bag of skins with
him; and as they neared the house, “Who’s
Marty?” he asked. “Wasn’t that a girl
I saw running as I came up?”
“Aw, no,” Ryan answered, “that was
Marty—a good enough boy, but useless with
horses. Got a kick in the. face the other
day. That’s why his head is wrapped up.”
Inside the earthen-floored hut they took
places at the table opposite each, other, the
trooper with the skins between his feet and
a service revolver at his right hand.
When a slim Chinese brought in the. food
Ryan asked “Where’s Marty? Tell him I
want him”; then, turning his head to the
trooper, he explained: “The boy’s a bit shy
now that his face is bandaged. Anyhow,
as it’s his mouth that’s crook he can only
eat soft tack.”
The boy presently thrust his head in at
the doorway; it was grotesque in its clumsy
swathings.
“Going to have some dinner, Marty?”
Ryan asked.
The boy shook his head and began to back
away.
“Wait a while,” Ryan ordered. “Did you
know that those sheep I bought from Paddy
Miller had a tattoo mark under the arm?”
As the boy only mumbled and shook his
head, Ryan continued: “Well, it is so, and
this man says they are station sheep and
I’m under arrest. We go in by the coach
to-night.”
Later, when the coach came and they were
about to get aboard, he called out: “Don’t
either of yous leave the place. I'll be back
to-morrow night.”
As there were already two passengers on
the box-seat with the driver, the trooper aud
his prisoner had to travel inside. Again
they sat opposite each other, the trooper
with the bag at his feet and the revolver
on his lap.
The first halt was twelve miles on, at the
Nalda station mailbox. As they approached
it the driver told his companions, “We won’t
see anyone there; they bring the bag before
dark and come in the morning for the one
I leave.”
But there was someone at the box; and
in the blurred .lights of the coach lamps
they saw it was a young woman. She
seemed to be in trouble; for as she blun-
dered round to the driver’s side she said,
“For God’s sake take me in with you! I’ve
been housemaid up at the station”—here she
broke into weeping—“and when old Mrs.
Scurran found out something she turned me
out.” Although the face they glimpsed below
the flop hat was youthful and fresh-looking,
the figure enveloped in a loose dress was,
they observed, decidedly matronly.
After one of the box-seat travellers had
helped the girl to climb inside the rickety
coach, the journey began again. Up hills
and over plains the horses trotted, and down
hills they cantered, and at every jolt
and bump the girl groaned and moaned dis-
mally.
It was when they were about five miles
from Mother Sloan’s shanty, where the track
was like corduroy with its little dry water-
courses, that she became really ill and begged
them to let her lie on the floor.
By this time the trooper was thoroughly
alarmed, and with his head outside the win-
dow told the driver what was the matter,
and the driver in turn suggested that the
girl should leave the coach at Mother Sloan’s
—“a fine old soul,” he said she was, “and
will treat you like one of her own.”
The girl did not reply, but writhed aud
twisted and uttered little cries.
When Mother Sloan had been told of the
unfortunate girl’s plight, she was all pity,
insisting that she shouls come in and stay
the night, “and if everything’s all right in
the morning it’s meself ’ll drive you to
the town in me buggy.”
The girl refused food, and the old woman
soon had her safely in the spare bedroom;
and, leaving her there, she told the other
woman of the place what she thought of
“that old hag of a Scurran person, who had
daughters of her own, too, turning the poor
creature out like that, and everyone in
the district knowing the sort of a wild scoun-
drel young Tom Scurran is. But —aigh!
there’s one law for the rich and another for
the poor”—and so on till they all went to
bed.
When the lights were out and the women
were both asleep, a girl slipped from a win-
dow, and with a bundle under her arm ran
swiftly to a low clump of mulga that skirted
the road. At a little mound of sand she
waited and listened intently; then came the
faint call of a curlew, and when a horse
stamped and blew through its nostrils she
ran till she saw outlined against the low
bushes the forms of two horses and a man
beside them.
As she came up someone whispered:
“Hully up, Missie Martha; horsey makee big
noise, and dog longa shanty bark plenty.”
She sprang to the back of one of the
horses, and a slim and agile Chinese mounted
the other, and, with a bundle in a chaffbag
on the pommel before him, galloped beside
her.
At the courthouse in the township next
day the charge of sheep-stealing against
Richmond Denis Ryan fell through; for
when a bundle in a chaffbag was opened it
was found to contain fresh sheepskins, but
instead of a purple Q beneath the forearm
there was a black M tar brand on the wool
of the back. Two smooth ears dangled on
the neck of each skin ; furthermore, Patrick
Miller, on oath, deposed that the earmarks
and the brands were his property; and as
he had recently sold one hundred sheep bear-
ing the same brands and earmarks to Red
Ryan, he was satisfied that the skins now
in court were the property of the said Red
Ryan.
The Glen of the Birds.
Seek well for Enchantment, and find her
In the core of a gem
(For these hills, to clear sight, are of
sapphire,
And I speak of them).
Seek well for Enchantment, tread softly,
And see her robe’s hem.
Light-fledged were the trees, narrow-bodied,
Close-standing to talk,
And the spaces between them kept void
That Enchantment might walk;
Save for elf-woods that mimicked wild
parsley—
Curled crest and pale stalk.
And Enchantment stood there in the glen
With her dim hand held out,
And all her unuttered bright words
Fluttered round and about,
And one had a breast that was hued
Like a rose’s blood-gout.
One flirted a feather tail-fan
Of frail black and white rods;
Its thread-slender legs tripped liltingly
Over the sods;
And one was soft grey as the hair
Of the fairy-tale gods.
The speech of these words was thin silver
And sparkles of gold;
And sometimes a crystal bead, dewdrop
shaped,
Dropped to the mould.
And the grass-scattered syllables glittered—
So clear, but not cold.
Without pause or ceasing the fairy-wroughi
Syllables fell.
The legend that crystalline language told
Who dares re-tell?
But the heart of Enchantment spoke through
it —
The sea through a shell.
Her tresses of sunshine and shadow
Were all we could see,
And the hem of her garment’s green velvet;
But under a tree
There suddenly stood a white wolf-dog
As stirless as she.
Did her feathered words seek her, all quiet-
Silence snap its cold ring?
Ah no! Still their syllables scattered
The treasure of spring.
So we knew him a thrall of Enchantment —
No dog, but a king!
N.S.W.
DULCIE DEAMER
The Little Birds of Beverley.
The little birds of Beverley,
They sing a cheery lay;
That orchestra of joy resounds
To greet the breaking day.
Whilst, where the fresh dew washed my feet,
Through dawn-glad bush I went,
I heard the voice of finch and lark
In song harmonious blent.
It ever has assailed my heart
When, passing blithe along,
I’ve found some bird of Beverley
Has ended all its song.
My heart is stirred to wonder why
That carefree joy is dead,
Or where the happiness that moved
The short-lived song is fled.
But still the birds of Beverley
With joyance fill the air.
The spirit of the birds that die
Might still be singing there,
And does it matter life is short,
On new planes moves along?
I know the birds of Beverley
Have joyed in their short song!
N.S.W.
HAMER.


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service aCarte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.:
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; ffm, A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
£
Headquarters
tor Hotel Comfort!
Situated on Adelaide’s finest boule-
vard, the Grosvenor provides to its
patrons a “home-from-home.” Fire-
proof, 300 rooms, 100 bathrooms,
spacious lounge, yale lock on every
door. Tariff from £3/10/- weekly.
"GROSVENOR
c Jldelaides Finest Unlicensed UioleL
Opp. Railway Sin.. Norih Terrace. ADELAIDE
The Surgeon’s Lady
ONE OF J.H.M.
ABBOTT’S BEST STORIES OF THE MACQUARIE
DAY8: THERE'S AN UNUSUAL WEDDING IN THIS ONE.
ON a winter evening towards the end of
IS2O Mr. Robert Dumoulin, of the
firm of Dumoulin Brothers, merchants
and shipowners, of St. Swithin’s-lane, in the
City of London, entertained two gentlemen
but lately returned from a voyage to New
South Wales, at the Cock Tavern, in Fleet-
street, close by Temple Bar. They were
the master and surgeon of the barque Lady
Godiva, which had been chartered by the
Board of Transport the year before to carry
to Sydney a number of female prisoners
undergoing various sentences of exile to
Botany Bay. All Australia was Botany Bay
in those days.
At five o’clock in the afternoon the genial
senior partner of the firm, Mr. Robert, after
a strenuous day in his counting-house,
assisted by the two gentlemen in question,
engaged in the checking of various accounts
and vouchers, had insisted that Captain
Snodgrass and Dr. Macartney should dine
with him, and had accordingly Caused a
hackney coach to be summoned to convey
them to the Cock. It was now eight o’clock
in the evening, and, mellowed by good food
and good wine, they took their ease in a
private room over a bowl of steaming punch,
smoking long churchwarden pipes, whilst
Mr. Robert listened with interest and enjoy-
ment to their reminiscences of the voyage
and the latest news from New South Wales.
It was the very latest, for the Lady Godiva
had been lying in St. Catherine’s Docks only
two days.
Dr. Macartney was a young naval surgeon
who had been appointed by the board to
take charge of the Lady Godiva’s unwilling
passengers, and was comparatively a
stranger to Mr. Dumoulin; but Captain
Isaac Snodgrass was an old and trusted ser-
vant of the firm, who had made many voy-
ages in their interests. It was the doctor
who had most to say, for the voyage had
been wholly anew experience to him, and
he was full to the chin of anecdote and
reminiscence concerning the ladies whom he
had recently conducted to the Antipodes.
“Now let me tell you about Betsy Drum-
mond, sir,” said the doctor to Mr. Duinou-
lin. “She was the most remarkable of all
my fair charges, and I’ll wager it won’t be
long before they find as much as that out
in Sydney. Indeed, to tell you the truth, 1
very much doubt whether she is not the
most remarkable person, male or female, to
be found in New South Wales at the present
moment.”
“Aye,” put in Captain Snodgrass— I m
one wi’ ye there, Doctor.”
“I shall never forget my first introduction
to her,” the surgeon went on. “When the
prisoners came down from Newgate to join
the ship at Plymouth, where we embarked
them—though the Lord knows why they
weren’t put aboard in the Thames- —they
were in a shocking condition: . ill-fed, ill-
clothed, many of ’em rotten with disease,
and every one of ’em in the very depths of
despair and melancholy. ’Twould have melted
the hardest heart to witness the abject
misery of the sorry collection, of females., of
all ages and conditions, which I received
aboard the ship. There was one old woman of
seventy and a girl of fifteen. They were
hungry, dirty and, as I’ve said, in rags. It
was snowing and sleeting, and they were
drenched by the waves as the boats brought
them off to the ship’s side at dusk. Gad,
Mr. Dumoulin, I assure you that the aspect
of the unfortunate creatures filled my bosom
with despair!
“What could I do with ’em? There were
no fires to dry them, and no blankets had
yet arrived on board. I’d not expected them
for at least another week. I could only
send them below, cursing, shivering and
coughing, into their quarters in the ’tween
decks. I made the cook boil ai vast quantity
of gruel—skilly, ’tis termed in convict circles
—and I gave them that. ’Twas a fierce and
dreadful thing to see them struggling round
the pots when they were carried below to
the prison. They fought like wild beasts.
They screamed blasphemy and obscenity till
my ears were deafened. In the same breath
they reviled God, me and the Devil. You
could imagine nothing like it.
“I assure you I never felt such a helpless
fool in my life as I did when I stood there
gaping at that seething inferno of degrada-
tion and lewdness. Those who had their
strength were quite mad ; the weak ones lay
upon the deck in all directions, gasping and
moaning. Several of them clawed and fought
with one another, until they were stripped
of every rag that had covered them, and
ran about absolutely naked, shrieking vile
imprecations and filthy insults. ‘Merciful
Heavens !’ I thought, in a dazed way.. ‘And
these awful creatures are to be in my
charge for four or five months!’ I tell you,
gentlemen, I trembled at the very idea of
Xt “Suddenly my bewildered and appalled
reflections were summarily sent flying by a
most emphatic and tremendous clout on the
ear, which struck my hat off, and sent me
staggering up against one of the ribs of the
ship. A terrific blow! For a moment.- it
knocked me into an even sillier condition
than I had already attained.
“ ‘Don’t stand there like a stuffed
monkey!’ I heard a woman’s voice shout at
me, as I staggered across the deck. Do
something, you fool! Earn your pay do
something! Damn you, act!’’
“Three lantliorns hung from the deck-
beams, and when I had a little recovered
myself I lifted one of them from its hook
and looked about for the man who had
struck me—l was the only male person
aboard who had any right in that place—
for I was convinced ’twas a man, though a
woman’s voice had cursed me. By the Lord,
I’d teach him! I’d have the skin flogged
from his back —dammit, I’d have him
hanged! And then I was undeceived.
Naked from the waist up, with mag-
nificent black hair loosened about her
shoulders, and a pair of splendid black
eyes that seemed to flash with scorn as she
looked at me, and her bosom heaving with
excitement, she stood there, glaring.and fero-
some raging wild animal pre-
pared on the instant for attack with tooth
and claw.
“I give you my word, I quailed—l felt
that I trembled. Presently, however, by an
effort of will beyond the ordinary, I found
my voice.
“ ‘Was it you who struck me?’ I managed
to gasp out, feeling I was almost apologis-
ing for addressing her. I tell you, my heart
sank as I looked at her. She had me
cowed already.
“ ‘Yes, by God!’ she cried. ‘And I’ll do
it again, perdition take you! Why don’t
you do something for us? You’re the Sur-
geon-Superintendent, I suppose?’ She spat
the words at me. ‘Then why don’t ye super-
intend ’em? Are you any sort of a man, sir?
Damn you, don’t stand there gaping! Do
something! Lud!’ she says, ‘if ye’d take me
out of here to some place where we might
talk in quiet, I’d show ye what to do. Yes,
take me out of this!’ she demanded. ‘’Tis
no place for consideration —these devils are
mad. I’ll show ye what to do, if ye’ll take
me outside those bars. Quick, now —else
they’ll be killing one another. Quick!’
“There was something so vital about the
woman that I woke up. And I don't know
why, but I found myself obeying her behest
to be taken out of the prison. Like one
who acts against his own volition I signed
to the marine without the wooden bars that
walled in the square of the hatch—you
know our arrangements, Mr. Dumoulin —I
signalled to him to unlock the gate. And
the next thing was, we were up on deck in
the snowstorm, with the captain here
a-goggling at us with a lanthorn in his hand.
Tell Mr. Dumoulin, Captain, whilst I fill my
pipe. Tell him what she made us do.”
“Glory be!” grunted Captain Snodgrass,
“she wheeled on me, and dared me as much
as she had the surgeon.
“ ‘Gimme that coat!’ she says, seizing the
lapel of my frieze pea-jacket. ‘D’ye want
me turned to a block of ice?’
“And, by Davy Jones, the coat was off
my back, and round her fine shoulders,
afoor I could wink an eye.
“ ‘Now,’ she says, ‘get men wi’ buckets, o’
water, an’ sloosh ’em to their senses. Quick
now, or ye’ll ha’ murder on y’r souls —if
ye’ve got any.’
“I tell ’ee, Mr. Robert, the surgeon
and I we done what she said. There were
but three marines in the ship, so I called
the bos’n and the carpenter and the sail-
maker, an’ we went down in th’ ’tween-
decks again—the woman with us, giving us
our orders like a fust-lieutenant of a lving s
ship. I don’t know why we obeyed her
like that, but we did. A line of seamen
passed buckets of salt water to us from
overside —freezin’ cold it was —and we sailed
into ’em. Ten minutes, and we’d driven
’em up for’ard against th’ hospital bulk-
head, and had ’em cowed and whimpering.
“ ‘Now, then,’ she yells at me, ‘get a
brazier o’ live coals brought, down, an set
your men to swab out this hole twas
ankle-deep in water —‘an’ keep a good fire
burnin’. An’ you must get blankets,, she
says. ‘Get them from some other ship, it.
you haven’t any—else they’ll all be. by
inorn, and you—you’ll swing for it. ; And
you, too, you fool, she tells th sur
gcon here. , , ~ T
“And, Gad, we did all she ordered! I
remembered that the prisoners had not yet
come down to the Antrim that was lying
astarn of us, so I sent a boat with my
mate, and we got the blankets. Lord, how
that woman made us work!”
“But who was she?” asked Mr. Dumou-
lin. ,
The surgeon took up the story.
“I had her to my cabin,” said Dr. Mac-
artney, “after they had quieted down, and
been given a tot of rum each, and wrapped
up in the blankets, for I wanted to ques-
tion her. I gave her a hot grog—oh, there
was nothing improper! The captain was
there, and he told her to keep his pea-
jacket for the present. I asked her her
name and her allotted number.
“ ‘Elizabeth Drummond, commonly called
Betsy,’ she said, ‘and I’m No. 1 on the
list. 9
“By God —and she was, too!” interposed
Captain Snodgrass. “She was Number One
Jill right!”
“I looked at my list, and found she had
been respited from the gallows for murder-
ing her husband. She was sentenced to
life at Botany Bay, and was marked dan-
gerous’ in red ink. She was quieter now,
and was a rare beauty, but she still glared
at us scornfully, as if we were dirt. I
questioned her further.
“ ‘Now, tell me, Drummond,’ I said—and
she let fly a curse at me.
“ ‘Mistress Drummond, damn you!’ she
rapped out. ‘You keep, your place, my man,
and we’ll get on better.’
“Well, it seemed she’d been accused of
poisoning her husband —an innkeeper, of
Islington—but swore she hadn’t. ’Twas only
her good looks, however, I think, that had
saved her from Jack Ketch. I didn’t know
what to do with her. I feared to send her back
amongst the other women —she’d handled
’em roughly, and I was apprehensive they
might do her a mischief. Not that she
couldn’t have more than looked after her-
self, but there’d have been endless trouble.
However, when I mentioned my fears, she
solved the problem herself.
“ ‘Look here, Doctor,’ she said, ‘you’ve a
hospital in the ship, haven’t you? Put me
in charge of it. There’s some will be
mothers before long—let me tend them. I’m
a good nurse.’ ”
“And did you?” asked Mr. Dumoulin.
“The Lord preserve us, Doctor—your Mis-
tress Drummond hath a way with her!”.
“Well, then,” said the doctor, “I did,
and she was a wonder. My bill of health
was better than that of most of the convict
transports sailing to New South Wales and
Van Diemen’s Land. She ruled her fellow-
sinners with a rod of iron, and was a model
of circumspection in her own conduct. With
a belaying-pin she broke the head of a sea-
man who ventured to make overtures to
her on deck, and she blackened the second
mate’s eye for calling her his ‘pretty dear.’ ”
“Haw, haw, ho!” bellowed Captain Snod-
grass. “She put young Mortimer in his
place—she did. He’d almost take to the
rigging afterwards whenever she came on
deck. Plaw, haw, ho !”
“When our clothing and equipment at
'last came on board, she insisted on first
pick of the material, and made herself a
most becoming costume, which she’d permit
none of the other wenches to copy. She
was my right hand with the sick all through
the voyage. Mark my words, gentlemen,
our Mistress Drummond will advance her-
self in the colony.”
“Indeed, I should imagine so!” smiled the
merchant. , _ ,
“But he hasn’t told you, Mr. Robert,
what the others used to call her—behind
her back, of course,” laughed the captain.
“For my own part I believe the surgeon
entirely innocent, but that’s what the
wretches used to call her.”
“And what was that, pray?”
Dr. Macartney shook his fist at Captain
Snodgrass, and reddened a little.
“Haw, haw—they used to call her the
Surgeon’s Lady !”
si: * >l= *
Dr. Macartney came ashore in Sydney a
year later with a splendid letter of introduc-
tion to Governor Macquarie in his pocket
and splendid expectations in his mind. He
had retired from the naval service, realised
what capital he could, and was now about
to tempt fortune as a settler in New South
Wales. *
It was not the practice of his profession
that he contemplated in the young colony—
he had never been greatly in love with that
exacting calling, and was not sorry to
relinquish it when he saw an opportunity
of doing so; he intended to “go on the
land.” The letter which he carried from
the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Earl
Bathurst, addressed to his Excellency, was
calculated to give him a start in his colonial
career of a kind not often available to new
settlers. Even the short experience of the
place he had acquired during his previous
visit to Sydney, as Surgeon-Superintendent
of the Lady Godiva, had made him aware of
the fact that he came there now under the
very best of circumstances, and with every
possible advantage. And his bright hopes
had not wilted at all as a consequence of
his first interview with General Macquarie.
Having read Lord Bathurst’s letter, his
Excellency’s somewhat dour face had almost
beamed upon the young surgeon, as he con-
gratulated him upon his intention of becom-
ing a colonist.
“I assure you, my dear Dr. Macartney,”
said Macquarie, “that were my own son of
an age suitable for such an undertaking I
would most unhesitatingly advise him to
do as you are decided upon doing. At present
the Territory is little more than a prison,
with, perhaps, just the beginnings of its
career as a free country in view. But I
have the utmost faith in its destiny—the
very utmost. Already, in the ten years of
my experience, the developments in New
South Wales have been extraordinary—most
extraordinary. When I landed in Port Jack-
son, at the end of 1809, New South Wales
was nothing but a sick and ailing child,
so to speak. The country was deemed, im-
penetrable forty miles from Sydney. Agricul-
tural undertakings were merely feeble scrateh-
ings of the soil. Commerce was but just mak-
ing a precarious beginning. Famine was still
a very real danger to the whole) community.
There was no public credit or private con-
fidence. Roads and bridges were in disre-
pair, and most of the public buildings mould-
ering to decay. In short, the place was a
disgrace to Britain. But all that has been
changed. Anew era is dawning, and one
day this splendid country will achieve a des-
tiny such as other parts of the British Empire
may well envy. Believe me, Doctor, that is
what is going to happen. You will con-
gratulate yourself in forty years’ time upon
the decision you have taken. And now we
must see what we can do for you. Most
heartily do I welcome the opportunity given
me by his Lordship’s letter. You will hear
from my secretary, Mr. Campbell, in a
week’s time. Good morning, Dr. Macartney
—a very good morning to you.”
On the whole, and one thing taken with
another, at the end of the forty years which
liis Excellency had mentioned in the little
speech reported verbatim above, Dr. Mac-
artney had cause to congratulate himself.
And as to the “very good morning” the Gov-
ernor had wished him. as he took his leave,
he always was of opinion that it had not
been a bad one at all, so far as material
advantage to himself was concerned.
He strolled down the hill, after leaving
Government House, in the direction of the
bridge that spanned the Tank Stream, a
little way beyond the open ground where
Macquarie had erected, not long before, the
obelisk you may look at to-day that records
itself as the starting-point whence are mea-
sured the main roads of New South Wales
leading out of Sydney. On the bridge he
paused, to feast his eyes for a few moments
on the beauties of the harbor, whose tidal
waters almost reached the line of Bridge-
street in those days. He had stood thus
contemplating the sparkling blue of Sydney
Cove, with the wooded heights of the North
Shore outlined against a sun-drenched sky
across the stream, when he heard his name
pronounced in a voice that had something
familiar about it. It was a woman’s voice.
“Dr. Macartney!”
He turned and looked at the speaker—
and then gave vent to a hasty exclama-
tion of surprise. A handsome and most
elegantly apparelled lady was smiling at
him, and holding out a gloved hand. Mech-
anically he took it —and felt it squeeze Ins
(Continued on page 49.)
THERE’LL BE THIS IN IT.
Principal Contents of the great Jubilee Number will mclude two remarkable
stories of “The Bulletin,” one told by William Macleod, who illustrated the
first number, was manager for 40 years and died only a few months ago; the
other by W. H. East, who put the first number into print, and was overseer
printer until his retirement a year back. These two and a dozen other
writers will give vivid pen-pictures of Haynes, Traill, Archibald Edmond and
the other men who have made “The Bulletin.” To be published (with about
150 portraits and other illustrations) January 29.


*>x
€
nQWtD
\*
Ttf*
wSwAWxtt-
„S?^*
%
j
:' S
/
■ ¥' .
=• • ...w-s
-: .-:
ySSSSxS: : S
i
SpglJ
Bill
■v"
w.
■i*
Ofoourselsmoke/
—but
only when it's
a
State Express
333/
or
§TflT£ (XPRJESS
S3S
CIGARETTES
MADE- IN LONDON
mm
X
/ J
y/.-x
m
i.
m
1


rr\
sM*-
t
! )Pfi
II 1 HKT—'
iTJI
i*
m
&
HZ'
Cr\ <vr
>*
'O9?
/.
' »?*
■=s
j r
ip*
'A
/ • '%•
1
k:
is by Car,
Bought on Henlys’
“Buy-Back” Plan
Henlys specialise in selling cars to visitors
from overseas, and fixing a definite price at
which they will buy back their cars at a later
date. This is easily the most convenient way
to see England: it is cheaper and more
pleasant than hiring; it is infinitely pre-
ferable to using the train. Henlys have the
largest stock of cars in England for you to
choose from, and they particularly recom-
mend such makes as Austin, Morris, etc.,
which having a good second market, can be
purchased on the “ Buy-Back ” Plan at a
low rate of depreciation indeed.
HENLyf
England's Leading
Motor Agents
Illustrated Brochure obtainable
from The Bulletin Office, 21)
George Street, Sydney.
DEVONSHIRE HOUSE, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W. i.
and at Manchester , Leeds , and Bristol
•WINCHCSnk
TRADE MARK
GUNS AND AMMUNITION
Safe —Sure —Accurate
THE BOY who does his first shooting with a
Winchester .22 caliber rifle, will shoot a
Winchester all his life. And he will always shoot;
Winchester Ammunition in Winchester Guns.
Winchester Staynless Rim Fire Cartridges are
ideal ammunition for a small-bore rifle. They
will not rust or pit the bore. This saves you
the bother of constantly cleaning the barrel and
protects the shooting qualities of your gun.
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN. CONN., U. S. A.
if" Always use Winchester Ammunition with Win
—Vi c hester Arms they are made for each other
&
i
o
1
Eg
si
vCV.
ester
w
SIAYN
ykBS
Ess
STA
w
S
.
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
fingers, ever so slightly, as though, a warmth
of welcome were intended. . .
“Great Heavens!” he gasped. “’Tis Mis-
tress Drummond !”
The lady laughed merrily, and he thought
he’d never seen a better looking woman in
his life before.
“Yes,” she smiled mischievously at him.
“she whom they used to call the Surgeon’s
Lady on the Lady Godiva. But you’ll admit,
tTS
“ m,Kh **
Indeed, ma am, I have nothing but re-
spect for you You are a good woman. I
don’t know what Id have done without you
on the transport. I don t, indeed.
“Nor I without you, Malcolm Macart-
ney. Pray excuse the familiarity, I beg
you, Doctor. ’Twas a slip o’ the tongue,
I do assure you. But now, sir, will you
not honor my house by taking dinner in
it? You must know ’twas your recommenda-
tion of my behavior on the Lady Godiva
induced Governor Macquarie to extend me
the advantages of a conditional pardon soon
after my arrival in the colony. I had some
means, and invested most of my money in
a licensed house, which, though I say it
myself, stands second to none in Sydney.
’Tis the Young Colonial, in King-street;
walk that way with me now, Doctor, and
proud and happy will I be, sir, to entertain
you there. For old-times’ sake.”
What could doctor do' but bow his
pleased acceptance' of her invitation? He
dined there that day, and on another. And
then he took up his quarters with the hand-
some widow as a boarder. There was much
business to attend to whilst his grant of
land was being surveyed on the Hunter
River—the buying of stores, cattle, sheep
and agricultural implements, as well as the
choosing of his assigned labor, in which
last task he was greatly helped by the
experienced advice of Mrs. In
the meantime he lived m comforLayM^as
well looked after at the Young
But at length came the eve ot his depai-
ture for Newcastle. The last evening ie
spent alone in the congenial c P S
handsome landlady, They had dined m the
behind
and ta ked m < ' nrivate retreat
the bar, which was her own pnwte retreat,
&1 that to
”rr r ' ,ha . t beei kMp-
?< Mistregg Drummond,” lie said, “pray
■ me yOU r attention, whilst I tell you
“ ome new * of i mpor tance. You know that
his Excellency and I have become most
friendly? Well, then, to be brief, I have
prevailed upon Mr. Macquarie to grant you
a f u u pardon. Nay, nay—do not thank
me too profusely. ’Twas a matter that he
j 1;u ( ha( j in contemplation for some time, he
me> He likes to encourage people such
ag yourself who are useful to the colony,
not a, word of thanks to me, ma’am,
»rp ig your own g00( j con< juct has earned it.”
gj ie ] a i<j down her embroidery, and turned
her g i or ious eyes upon him. He was startled
to gee they were filled with tears,
T earg anc | this capable woman had not
seem ed compatible. Presently, seeming to
t ake hold of herself, she spoke to him.
“Doctor,” she said, simply, “will yon
marry me?”
For a moment the doctor was staggered,
Then he remembered that he had been going
to ask her this self-same question himself,
“Egad, ma’am—l mean Betsy—you honor
me. I—l—indeed, I will, then. To-morrow,
if you like.”
She rose and stood beside him, placing
a hand on his shoulder. Then she stooped
and kissed him.
“Indeed, then I shall really be the
Surgeon’s Lady!”
Baked Apple Dumplings.
MARGARET FANE
AND HILARY LOFTING TELL A TALE OF “THE
BEST COOK IN THE COMMONWEALTH
THE short, very fat and purple man
grinned. “Spare me days, Dick,” he
said, “don’t look like as if you were
at your own funeral. It’s not long to wait
now.”
The hungry-looking tall man sighed and
glanced at the Soldiers’ Memorial clock. “I
know it isn’t, Eddy. But I get jumpy.
Every dinner-time I get jumpy.”
Eddy Plant’s grin faded. “Ah,” he said
darkly, “and you’re not the only one. She’s
too much responsibility, that’s what she is.”
Dick Wood looked haggardly at the clock
again and chewed his moustache. “It
wouldn’t have stopped, would it?” he asked.
“Twenty years I’ve had this pub,” Eddy
told him, “and up to twelve months ago I
never had a cook that knew one side of a
frying-pan from the other. You just got
your grub as quick as you could and forgot
it. But now”
“Ah, well, note” The thin man beamed,
gently rubbing his hands together.
Mr. Plant looked sorrowfully at him.
“That’s all right for you. All you got to do
is to come and eat it. But what about me?”
“Well, what about you?”
The little Memorial square of Woopwindi
seemed to be fast asleep in its dust and
heat. But as the minute-hand of the clock
edged up to join the hour-hand at twelve the
saddler came out, looked at the clock and.
untving his apron, went back for his hat.
The bank-clerk peered out of the window and
vanished. The young man at the store
slipped out on to the pavement in his brisk
way, saw that it was getting on for twelve,
and slipped back. A hovering undertone of
activity was making itself felt, an activity
centring indefinably on Eddy Plant’s pub and
twelve o’clock. Even the blue dog on San-
som’s doorstep woke up and looked at the
clock before he trotted firmly across the
square and into Eddy’s yard. At the dead
hour of noon anew life was springing into
being in the desolation of Woopwindi.
“What about me?” Eddy asked, repeating
Dick’s question. “I don’t believe I’ve got
a hope of keeping her—that’s what about
me ”
“Why shouldn’t you keep her? She's
satisfied isn’t she?”
“How’ could you hope to keep a cook like
that in a place like this? Here’s Sansom
over at the King’s Head been after her for
nine months—offering her this, that and
the other. Not that he’s dangerous, with his
half-caste kids—she’d never go there, with
that lot.”
“Well, what’s biting you?”
Eddy scowled at the blue dog. “That’s not
the half of it. That cow Ti'evor at Bon-
gaderie—lie’s after her now. And he’s a
widower without any family.”
“Yes But”
“He’il be marrying her. That’ll be the
end of it ” Eddy’s voice was bitter. . “A
long, lanky cow of a man marrying the
finest cook in Australia and leaving me high
and dry with half me trade gone.”
“She is a good cook, isn’t she?” Dick
said dreamily. “I seem to live from dinner-
time to dinner-time.”
Eddy’s purple face turned on Dick. “That’s
all you think about,” he snarled. “And
here am I lying awake nights wondering if
she won’t have escaped before breakfast-
time with half the countryside trying to
steal her from me. I’m working like a
nigger for Woopwindi, that’s what I am,
while vou cows are only waiting for twelve
o’clock.”
Dick glanced at the clock and chewed his
moustache again. But in silence; Eddy
was all “het up” with nerves about it.
“And there’s another thing.” Mr. Plant’s
face staring across the square was grim and
tragic “Every time I see old Handley
coming down the street about mailtime,
bursting out of his uniform, me heart goes
nit-a-pat until he’s gone by.”
1 “Why Eddy?”
“Well! look at it, Dick. What’s a woman
like Mrs. Jones, as she calls herself, doing
cookin 0- in a bush pub? Stands to reason
(-here’s'’ something funny about it. I don’t
mean anything wrong, you know. But she’s
got fed up and nicked off from her husband
and family.” Eddy sighed windily. “Or
something. And they’ll get her back, Dick,
you see if they don’t. They’d never let a
woman who can cook like her slip through
their fingers. And they’ll do it through
First-Class Constable Handley in the end if
they can’t find any other way.”
“But you don’t know this, Eddy?
" Course I don’t—spare me days, Dick.
I s’pose you're hungry as usual, but I don t
believe you’ve got any mind this morning,
Eddy goggled at Dick. “ ’Course I don’t
know it; but that’s the way it looks to me,
I tell yer, and every time I see that fat cow
Ilandley I think it’s the end of the section
and this is where I lose the best cook in
Australia. Yer can’t tell me!”
Another activity made a sudden vigorous
overtone in the desolation of Woopwindi.
A motor-car banged and rattled into the
square, grey with dust and loose with dis-
honored age. The narrow-shouldered freckled
boy driving it glanced at Sansom’s paintless
front and brought the remarkable car to a
standstill at Eddy’s verandah. The engine’s
ejaculations continued viciously while the
boy’s rather fagged and worried eyes stared
up at Eddy and Dick. Some measure of
quiet supervening at last, he spoke,
“Any chance of getting dinner here?” he
asked.
Eddy was brisk. “Dinner?” He laughed
compassionately. “Best dinner in the Com-
monwealth. On in ten minutes.” The engine
broke into an abrupt roaring lament and
fell suddenly and finally silent. “How many
shall I tell them?”
“Four,” the boy said, slipping out of the
driving-seat and opening the door of the car.
Watching, Eddy and Dick saw a large,
cheerful-looking girl, placid and dusty and
perhaps fifteen years old, get out first and
turn to lift out a child,
<( ‘Common,* Dilly dear,’ she said sleepily,
"Dinner.”
‘Don’t want dinner,” the child said. “I
want a drink.”
“Well, p’raps you can have a drink with
your dinner. Only come on. You’re in
Daddy’s way.” She picked the child up.
“Come to Mary.”
The man behind was narrow-shouldered
like the freckled boy, stooping and of an
indefinably clerky appearance. He looked
dusty and battered, pretty old for his years
but yet energetic. He looked up at Eddy’s
Pub as if he had never seen such a thing
in his life, as if it were a dramatic adven
ture. He beamed at the purple face and
at the haggard hungry face looking down
,
‘Dinner sounds good,” he announced in
an almost swashbuckling
“Righto, Dad. You go on in,” the bo>
told him. “I’ll just have a look at her”—he
turned and slipped off the car’s bonnet.
“Thank you, Phil. Thank you.” For *
moment Dad seemed suppressed by the tone
of Phil’s voice; but going up the steps he
recovered and was full of eager interest
again as he reached Eddy and Dick.
“Hot, isn’t it?” he suggested,
“Burn yer eyes out, ’ Eddy agreed. “What
about stopping one before dinner, Mis
ter-r-r?”
. Sawnor is my name. The little stoop
mg man seemed glad even to give this per
functory information. ‘A drink? Yes. 1
think the temperature at this height is sufti
cient excuse for”—— he followed Eddy am
Dick into the hall.
Here Mary, dusty and tranquil, grinned al
bun from a chair. Dilly was on her lap,
obviously very angry. “This kid wants r
drink, Dad.” Mary said drowsily. “Sh.
won t wait.
Delia, Mr. Sawnor admomsher
the. child, Ive told you before tha
patience
. Want a drink, Delia interjected, tun
m« her back on him.
Ead lookml helplessly at the back. Edd;
laughed. There s a parlor on the right,’
be said. “She could have a lemonade ir
there.”
Of course. You go on into the parlor
Mary, and the landlord will send ii
lemonade. ’
( Continued on next page.)


A Camel
travels 11 days, SAFELY
on ONE water supply—
ś
Your Car,
500 miIes,SAFELY on »
ONI complete lubrication /
Drive a camel beyond his “lubrication” limit
and there is trouble. So it is with a motor
car. Then you meet the irresistible forces of
wear and tear and friction. You pay repair
bills of which 80 per cent are due to this one
easily avoided cause.
Of course you will not take this chance when
Alemite —the scientific method of complete
lubrication—may be had so easily and econom-
ically. For with Alemite, used regularly every
500 miles, the chief source o|f mechanical
trouble is removed.
Alemite forces lubricant, under tremendous
pressure, to every Vital Chassis Bearing on
your car. It pushes out old, gritty grease, forc-
ing in clear, clean, solidified oil. That’s why 95
per cent of all American cars now manufac-
tured are equipped with Alemite.
We suggest you ask your nearest dealer or
write for full particulars.
What Alemite-ing Does
, for Any Car
1. BEARINGS: GenuineAlemit eHighPressure
lubricant forced into every vital chassis bear-
ing with Alemite equipment. Every 500 miles
2. GEARS: Differential and transmission thor-
oughly flushed out by a special Alemite process.
New Alemite Gear Lubricant forced in. Every
2,500 miles.
3. SPRINGS: Given an Alemite Graphite
Spring Bath. They are sprayed with special
Alemite Graphite Penetrating Oil—every 500
miles. Eliminates squeaks and makes car run
smoother.
Genuine Alemite-ing—every 500
miles—costs no more than ordinary,
inefficient “greasing.” Then notice
how your repair bills decrease; how
much better your car runs.
ŝ
See your nearest dealer or write for particulars.
ALEMITE MANUFACTURING CORPORATION
DIVISION OF STEWART-WARNER
Chicago, U. S. A.
Full particulars from
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH
Resident Manager,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following Representatives:
Bennett & Wood, Ltd 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
Motor Supplies, Ltd. . Brisbane
Atkins (W. A.), Ltd 894 Hay Street, Perth
E. A. Machin & Co., Ltd. . 535 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
Cornell Limited, 122 Pirie Street, Box G. P. 0., 496 E., Adelaide
For the Dominion of New Zealand:
Jas. J Niven & Co., . 152 Wakefield Street, Wellington, N. Z.
ALEMITE
High Pressure Lubrication
In the bar Mr. Sawnor said that his was
a shandy. He drank half of it with gusto.
“Wonderful.” he said, “wonderful! What
a thing drink is when you're hot and parched,
isn't it?”
“Going far?” Eddy asked.
A shadow seemed to fall for a moment
on Mr. Sawnor’s radiance. “That depends,”
he said sighing. “That depends.” He
brightened. "I'm having a marvellous time.
I’ve seen more of Australia in the past
month —well, look, I didn’t believe there
was so much of it to see!”
Dick Wood wiped the beer out of his
moustache. “On holiday, Mister?”
“Not exactly.” Mr. Sawnor was momen-
tarily grave. “But yes—l suppose you
could call it a holiday in a way, too. But
it wasn’t meant to be one.”
“Not meant to be one?”
“No.” He looked from Eddy to Dick and
sighed again. “I ask everyone I meet to
help me if he can, and I’m asking you. I’m
looking for my wife,” he added gently.
Eddy’s heart missed a beat. “Your wife?”
he repeated stupidly.
“Yes,” Mr. Sawnor finished his shandy.
“I suppose I am a bit dull at times. I’m
a clerk in a dry goods warehouse, and you
get tired and heavy 1 sometimes.” He paused.
“But that’s neither here nor there,” he went
on. “She got fed up with ust and —well, she
just walked out on us. That was twelve
months ago.”
Eddy was certain that his heart had
stopped. “Twelve months?”
“Twelve mortal months!” The enthusi-
asm was finding its way back into the little
man’s voice. “Twelve months she’s been
absent from us.” He smiled on the petrified
Dick. “I often think now of what she
meant to us —of all her little ways that we
couldn’t always understand” —the shadow
drooped on him again for 'a second—“the
things we didn’t try to understand.”
“Have another shandy?” Eddy’s hollow
voice invited.
“Yes, thank you. As I said before, it’s
hot and we can allow ourselves” He
beamed from Dick to Eddy. “A wonderful
woman,” he continued. “The way she looked
after us —you’d be surprised. And her cook-
ing—l can smell her baked apple dumplings
now !”
Eddy’s glass fell with a crash to the floor.
“Stupid of me,” he muttered kicking the
pieces under the rail. “Go on, Mister.”
“A marvellous woman, a woman of” —
the transient shadow flickered down again—
“of power, if you know what I mean.” He
looked at Dick, who was staring into his
beer, and at Eddy, who was filling anew
glass with a shaking hand. “It’s been my
idea that she’d start a dressmaking business
.somewhere. She was always a great hand
at making the girls’ and her own clothes.
I suppose you don’t happen to know of any
woman who’s opened a dressmaking business
in this district in the past year—some lonely
woman that nobody knows anything about.”
“Dressmaking?” Eddy looked at Dick’s
black face. “Let’s see—dressmaking. Wasn’t
there a woman wbo opened a shop in Bonga-
derie, Dick, about a twelvemonth ago?”
“Name of Smith,” Dick said stolidly.
“That’s it!” Eddy was suddenly ani-
mated. “By golly, you came to the right
shop, Mister. That’s it—Mrs. Smith. Right
past the Commercial Hotel.” Anew thought
evidently struck Mr. Plant. “Listen,” he
said genially. “Bongaderie’s only a matter
of ten mile or so, on a good road. I was
thinking—we get pretty full up here at
dinner-time, and it won’t be too easy to fit
in four extra. And the cooking’s roughish,
if you know what I mean.”
“Oh, we don’t mind that.”
“Yes,, but,” Eddy hurried on, “how about
your slipping into your car and running
over to Bongaderie for dinner? My friend
Jack Trevor at the Commercial puts up a
first-class dinner —he’s got the best cook in
the Commonwealth, for a start —and I’ll give
him a ring to treat you right. That way
you’d be killing two birds with one stone.”
Eddy leaned back, a purple monument of
benevolence. “Have another shandy?” he
added.
“No, thank you.” Mr. Sawnor drooped
and shrank a little. “It’s very good of you
to give me this information.” He turned
away from the bar. “I’ll go and find Phil.”
. Presently the noontide hush of Woopwindi
was shattered as by a storm of heavy artil-
lery. At the height of the tumult the Saw-
nor car vanished in a cloud of dust in the
direction of Bongaderie. Eddy and Dick
turned back to the bar.
Dick smiled under his moustache. “That
was a near thing, Eddy,” he said.
“Yairs.” Eddy drained his glass and
looked unsmiling at Dick. “I dunno, Dick.
I been thinking over there at the win-
dow” —
“Thinking what?”
“Whether I’ve got the right to do it, Dick.
There’s that family there. All’s fair in
business, I know, but—well, there it is.
There’s that poor little cove; he’s got heaps
of kick in him, but you can see how lie
feels it, can’t you?”
“Yes, that’s right enough, Eddy.”
“And then there’s those girls. That big
growing girl—she ought to have her mother.”
“I don’t remember Mrs. Jones ever doing
anything with baked apple dumplings, do
you, Eddy?” Dick interrupted, his voice soft
and caressing.
“No, I don’t, now you come to mention
it. But I bet she’d make a beautiful job
of ’em if she did. You heard what he said
about them, didn’t you?”
“I heard.” Dick was grave, almost
solemn. “You might give her a word about
them if you think of it, Eddy.”
“I will, Dick.” But then remorse seized
Eddy again. “It’s not good enough, Dick.
No one’s got the right to do a thing like
this, business or no business,” he ruminated,
heavy with regret. “That kid, Delia or Dilly
or whatever they called her —of course, you
could see that the big girl was mothering
her, but it’s not the same as her own mother,
you can take it from me, Dick.”
“I suppose .it isn’t.”
“And the boy—there’s his career in life
to be thought of.”
“Yairs,” Dick in his turn ruminatfed. “But
there’s no flaming hurry about it, is there?”
he submitted.
“I dunno about that. I got a feeling I
ought to get the little cove on the
’phone”
A shadow passed the door of the bar. and
Eddy looked, up. “Wasn't that the boy?”
he asked.
“I believe it was. He’s come back.”
"Let’s go and tell him, Dick,” Eddy sighed
ponderously. "You’ve got to do right, you
know, Dick, in the end.”
In the hall there was no Phil to be seen,
but in the parlor he was groping under the
settee.
"Lost something?” Eddy asked,
Phil’s steady eyes looked round. “Yes,
Mary left her bag here. I’ve just found it. ’
He stood up and dusted the knees of his
trousers.
Eddy cleared his throat. “Where’s the
car and the rest of ’em?” he began.
“They wanted some sunburn stuff at the;
chemist, so I left them there and walked over
here for the bag. Why?”
Eddy cleared his throat again. "You re
going on to Bongaderie then when you pick
’em up again.”
“Yes. Why?”
“Oh, nothing, nothing.” The boy’s eyes
were disconcerting, but Eddy squared him-
self at it. “I suppose you—the family and
your old man —miss your mother a good
bit. don’t you?”
Phil received this in silence, his thin,
freckled face quite expressionless and his
watchful eyes implacably on Eddy’s face.
“I mean, you must miss her, of course.
That stands to reason. Only, I was think-
ing” Eddy petered out under the un-
flinching gaze of these eyes.
“Look,” Phil spoke sharply. “I don’t
know wliat business it is of yours, but I
can feel that you mean to be friendly.” He
came a pace nearer to Eddy. “It’s the first
holiday he’s had in sixteen years; I never
knew until a year ago that my dad was
anything but a worn-out old man. Look at
him now; he gets every ounce out of every-
thing. A year ago my sister Mary was a
dull, half-silly drudge about the house, bad-
tempered and nearly always crying. Look
at her now, doing her job with Delia, and
happy and calm.” The curt voice ceased as
he picked up the handbag from the table.
At the door he turned. “That’s all,” he
added. “Good day.”
Eddy and Dick watched his quick, thin
figure crossing the square in the sunshine.
Eddy blew out his cheeks. “I’ll go and
telephone to this Trevor cow.” he muttered.
“They may as well get as good a feed as
he can give them out of it. Come on, Dick.”
“Is that you, Jack?” Eddy’s voice suc-
cessfully concealed his hatred and contempt
for this Trevor cow. “I’ve just sent some
people over to you for dinner —party of four.
They’ve got business in Bongaderie.”
“Righto, Eddy. I’ll treat ’em right.”
“Goodo! And look, Jack, give ’em the
best you’ve got —something special, you
know, and charge it to me. I know you
can’t do much with that blacksmith of a
cook of yours”
The Trevor cow’s cackling laugh came
over the wire. “Don’t you worry about
cooks, my boy. I’ve got the finest in the
Commonwealth. She’s got yours licked to
a standstill.”
Eddy’s eyes snapped. “Where did you
get her?”
“Oh, she just blew in and started a fort-
night ago. Been kickin’ about on her own
for a year, and my place just suits her, she
says. Come over some day and have a bite
with me, and you’ll wish you saw her first.
I want you to taste her baked apple dump-
lings—fair melt in your”——
But the receiver had fallen from Eddy’s
nerveless hand. “Well, I’m damned!” he
whispered, staring dizzily at Dick as the
gong boomed in the hall and Woopwindi
came streaming into dinner.
The Blind Kitten.
A babe may ope his eyes the minute
He slips into the world, but you
Have still to wonder what there’s in it,
If mother’s near you when you mew.
Ay! as»a blind man will you ponder
On this and that; things will occur:
She cannot help you in your wonder
Sucking the dug there in the fur.
N.s.w.
R. CRAWFORD.
As the Ways Descend.
I thought of a thousand things as I sat in
the place
Where of old we sat ere time had wrinkled
my face;
Now I could lean my cheek on your arm,
the storms gone over,
My lingers laid on your hand as a friendly
lover.
For combat is ended, combat the gesture of
youth;
Old sieges threaten no more with their
pitiless ruth;
Only is left the heart by its memories
holden,
The rose on the far grey cloud, and the
sunset golden.
What loomed and shook in the past shakes
now no more ;
Quiet lies on the sea, the rocks are far from
the shore;
The bark is nearing at last the port of
ending,
The watch called down from the peak, and
the sails descending.
To some is given a calm in the younger
years;
A kiss is only a kiss, not theirs the clamor
that fears;
They can lean over the fence, safely linger
and dally;
Not theirs the leaping of power at life’s
reveille.
The tame lie free in the paddock; the fierce
are chained and barred,
Strained by an inward fever, restless, ever
on guard—
These, how a touch can stir, how even a
look can waken,
Till the terrible tides arise, and the house
is shaken!
Storm is the blazon of youth, the old arc
quiet;
Strange is that blossoming time, the pulses’
riot;
But stranger the calm that comes as the
ways descend,
When two who would kiss can part in
peace, combat at end.
N-S.W.
MARY GILMORE.


/
WESTINGHOUSE
Moise Silent Rocker- Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents—mißMiiiS <* Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—o 3-107 I'eatherstou Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—" Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LID., Adelaide, S.A.
PROVED!
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards,' specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“THE AGE”
Established 1851 f.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you wish to stimulate the interest of the
Victorian public in your products, digest these
facts:—
Over 123,000 persons purchase “The Age”
daily (60 per cent. Metropolitan area,
40 per cent. Country districts).
Over 96 per cent, of the copies purchased
are home delivered to subscribers.
Over 95 per cent, of the home deliveries
remain in the house for the womenfolk
during the day,
and
Over 1,000,000 advertisements are pub-
lished in its columns annually.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation
123,533.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation's News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
tb« Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements .
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Cordon & Ootch, price 1 id.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
the mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)'
carries regularly a far greater total
volume of advertising than any other
newspaper published in Tasmania.
F is thus , judged hy the use made of
its columns, the most populab
as well as the most powerful of the
newspapers of Tasmania.
pROFIT hy the experience of the
leading national advertisers, and
place “ The Mercury” first when
advertising is under consideration.
Average Net Circulation, 20,967.
IT is, undoubtedly, Tasmania’s ablest
and best conducted newspaper.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable - k Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
P. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House
SO Carrington Street, Wynyard Sauare ’
BW 5179. 4 ’
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin’* takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
PaJbS® youf
*YES to day?
•Tl
ARE THEY CLEAR
AND BRIAHT, OR
DULL AND
LUSTRELESS l
THE charm of a person’s eyes, which
should be clear, bright and the whites'
tinged with blue, is often spoilt by ill-
health. Dullness and discolouration in the eyes
is a blemish and indicate constipation— which
means that poisons are being harboured in the
system fatal to health and beauty, besides giving
cause to biliousness, indigestion and headaches.
The medicine to remedy this condition is Beecham’s Pills
(a close at night keeps you right) a most effective and naturally-
actioned laxative. Keep your digestion right and eyes
bright with
BEKH/US
WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX
I.'!
FREE
PATTERN OF
TENNIS
JUMPER
IN THIS WEEK’S ISSUE OF
s
TODDLER’S FIRST SEA BATHE
CAMPING IN COMFORT
Some Notes Written from a Holiday Camp.
ILLUSTRATED AUTUMN FASHIONS
MAKING OR MARRING YOUR MOUTH
s
THE NEW SERIAL BY DOROTHY COTTRELL
EARTH-BATTLE
X
t
*
<)?■
0°
(6)
aP
1 .4\»3 ..•• ..•• ,* ,e^V*


m
ds^>-
PT
/
%
r
8>
\ C
1
Palm Test...
shows you why Goodyear
has the best non-skid
tread.
2
Cord Test • • •
shows you why a
Goodyear Supertwist
Cord carcass has
greater endurance.
Two Reasons
And One Proof
There are two main parts to a
tyre: the tread; the tyre body.
Goodyears are superior in
both.
1
Press down on the Goodyear
Tyre Tread. The deep-cut
diamond blocks grip your
hand. That is how they grip
the road —safe and slipless.
•i l
■The testing machine
shows you the greater stretch
—up to 60% —in Goodyear
Supertwist Cord over ordinary
cord. This gives the tyre body
vitality and ability to withstand
all road-shocks without
premature failure.
Proof: More people the world
over ride on Goodyear Tyres
than on any other make.
50-ro»
