

«s.
%
m
?:<
gssesns
«b«SWSS4»w-=S^
<f«j&-r*s& r z £xr *
‘^&g^S^SSk
**s*3s
iSfe*.'
SS
s
The Bulletin
fb&f- MuMLChWvUL
VoL 51.—N0. 2612.
Wednesday, March 5, 1930*
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


\y/RITE for the Library Catalogue and
W terms, and lists on all subjects, which
will be forwarded post free on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
Story
Writing
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Rvssell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address - *
S.B. 309
TARIFF REVISION
SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.
The Proprietors of
HOLBROOK’S LIMITED
beg to announce that they have established a plant in Sydney for
the manufacture of Tinned Soups.
The following varieties are now available in eight-ounce and
sixteen-ounce tins:; —
VEGETABLE
MULLIGATAWNY
PEA
MOCK TURTLE
OX TAIL
TOMATO
The Aristocrat of the Bathroom !
THE WORLD'S REST SAFETY
is a
ROLLS RAZOR
There are no packets of blades to be bought afterwards. The ONE BLADE of a Rolls Razor is
hollow ground. I-t is a triumph of skilled workmanship—not a wafer stamped out m thousands
by machinery. No wonder it gives years and years of clean, beautiful shaves.
BUY A “ROLLS” NOW and pay for it with the money you save in blades.
Imperial Model No. 1 . . 45/- Imperial Model No. 2 . . 35/-
Obtainable at all high-class stores, chemists and tobttcc onists throughout Australia.
THE ROLLS RAZOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA,
8a CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone: 8W2038-2039.
/my tymUQnfatf
"Rameno” Brand "Merino-Knit” Cardigans and Sweaters are
snug-fitting and very comfortable to wear. They are knitted
from fine Australian Wools which give the natural warmth that
is so essential in protecting the body in changeable weather.
"Rameno” Brand "Merino-Knit” garments are beautifully
knitted, distinctive in style and colour, and altogether desirable
as an adjunct to the every-day attire of particular men.
Brand "Merino-Knit” Garments
are made in Three Textures: Heavy-Weight ,
Fine-Heavy-Weight , Light-Weight.
ww
“RAM E JVO”
BBANC
ME NO” Brand
5
m
'
MADE EXCLUSIVELY BY
MERINO. WOOLLEN MILLS
PTY. LTD.
COLLINGWOOD, VIC
Ask Your Mercer (or
"Ra me no” Brand
"Merino-Knit”
Cardigans,
Sweaters,
Half Hose
HSi
jm
n
M 37
erno-i
w
Is it worth I|6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE .. ... 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to "know.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
** should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home* Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends., use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
KILL THE TYPHOID FLY.
“MUSTDIE”
THE NON-POISONOUS POW-
DER, is Infallible in Destroying
all Insect Pests, but is Abso-
lutely Harmless to Canaries,
Dogs, Poultry; in fact, all
Animals and Man.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
Sold Everywhere. Price 1/-
03
'.T
ajaMOd
aiQjsnw
HOUSE
FLIES
ARE
POTENT
CARRIERS
OF
DISEASE.
ŵ
The Red Page
A Fish Story
I for one admit to having had doubts
about the prospects of The Bulletin's
Second Novel Competition. They have
vanished—but I had ’em.
A country that has had, God knows,
little enough encouragement in the novel-
building business «is suddenly offered a
highly payable excuse for doing something
worth while. I once argued over Mockbell’s
coffee with two artists that it couldn’t be
done. Writers, artists, I pleaded, brought
out inevitably what was in them. I thought
them materialists for thinking otherwise. I
wish I could still think so. I wish I could
still feel that money and art are fifteenth
cousins. But I begin to feel that it is not
trite to suggest, that there are delicacies as
well as glaring eyes in a tin of whitebait,
and that it takes a tin-opener to fetch them
out! Tin in the vernacular equals money;
opener, an instrument used for opening.
Prize-money was offered, and three books
worthy of collecting it came along. No
moral seems necessary.
Still, for old love’s sake, let us deny
righteously that the first Bulletin Novel
Competition and its results were a matter
of cause and effect. Let it stand that the
£lOOO divided between the writers of “A
House Is Built” and “Coonardoo” was
merely a happy recognition of work done.
And still the payment is on the highest
scale, and an encouragement for others to
go and do likewise. That is where my
doubt arose. Were there others to go
and do likewise? Was it possible to fish
more first-rate novels out of the passive
sea that is Australian literature? I can say
definitely now that it was; that it has been
done. I know nothing about the great mass
of the 250 or so novels in this Second Com-
petition. They have been read, carefully,
painstakingly; sifted down to about 20. At
time of writing I have read about seven
of this select 20. In that seven I met a
novel that made me go out and sit under
a pear-tree and smoke at 3.30 a.m. The
moon was not full, either. Neither was I.
But there was a certain amount of moon,
and recollection of the story was like it—
calm, clean, beautiful. It is a pity that the
drivel merchants have contaminated the
moon. It is a magnificent thing turned
almost to a sickly horror by their filthy
sentimentalism. Its name has become
synonymous with the piffle of poetasters.
Yet it goes on, serene, aloof, inevitable,
irresistible. It has climbed, it is in the mid-
heavens, and it will go down undimmed.
And the dirty little drivellers will whine
and slobber; will rhyme it with croon, and
tune, and soon; will weep when an A 1
Jolson mouths his measly numbers. No
wonder it amounts to bathos to go out and
sit under it at 3.30 a.m., and doubtless to
worse bathos, if there are any degrees, to
mention it at all in an appreciation of a
piece of literature.
Best let it all go as a mere accident. I
read the manuscript in a room, and I went
outside naturally for elbow-room. It was
only by accident that the moon was there.
It 3 only appropriateness was that I could
see to smoke. There I fell to comparison.
Comparison is not only odious; it is un-
avoidable, and it is necessary. All criti-
cism is comparison. And one writer came
in for this comparison—Knut Hamsun. That
will tell pretty well everybody what this
book is like. They will know, if my re-
action is clean, that it is sincere. They
will know that it has humanity; that it has
serenity; that it is inevitable. They will
know that it is not only well but carefully
written. They will know it deals with
simple folk. They will know that it has
tang. What a word, tang! With Knut it
is tang of axe biting into wood; tang of
soil; tang of mere human smell. Here it
is tang of fish. This writer makes fish a
great character of fiction. That does hot
necessarily mean a noble character; yet in
this instance it does. Apropos, in the first
competition a writer tried to make crayfish
a character, and jolly near got away with it.
In fact, I remember those crayfish above
most of the other characters attempted in
that competition. Here the character is
gleaming fish, chiefly mullet—the fat, roe-
sogged mullet coming up the coast, with
the sharks gorging on their mass at the
edges, and the birds hovering above. Tang
is there always. It is what is called atmo-
sphere. Fish-nets, mullet weed, the old boy
alleged to have barnacles on his legs.
Those interminable gum-trees; those
foolish parties in Darlinghurst—wipe them
out! Here is Australia—a new bit of this
universal continent. Here, too, is writing
—writing so good that it will not surprise
me to learn the name of the author is
already well known, though I cannot hazard
a guess as to who the author is. I am satis-
field to say that this is a novel worthy of a
high prize, worthy to uphold the standard
of the first competition prize-winners. If
something more worthy turns up in the
remaining dozen or so I shall be happy to
throw away my hat.
And I am very fond of my hat.
CECIL MANN.
Brass Tacks v. Hot Air
John Dailey (B. 12/2/’3O) has not had
the luck to see the work of a better short-
storywriter “of his type” than Dale Collins.
Wells calls the work of James Edmond
“supreme genius oj its sort.” Yes, but what
“sort”? What “type”? Which story? May
we not have the particulars; the names,
the dates, the places?
I am aware of only three Australian prose
anthologies: “An Austral Garden of Prose,”
edited by Donald McLachlan (George
Robertson, Melbourne); “Australian Short
Stories,” edited by George Mackaness
(Dent, London); “An Australian Story
Book,” edited by Nettie Palmer (Cornstalk,
Sydney). McLach lan’s is a rough and ready
affair. It is the only general prose anthology
and is not worth powder and shot, although
it stumbles occasionally on to a good thing
like Edward Dyson’s “A Domestic Differ-
ence,” which, except for a difficult and
stilted start, is a far better story than Law-
son’s “That There Dog o’ Mine.” In the
absence of clear statement on Mr. Dailey’s
part I hope it is right to assume that his
remai’ks apply to the second and third
books mentioned. (Why do our critics so
rarely mention the names of the works they
are criticising?) It is beside the point to
say that these editors are not “front-rank
writers.” Front-rank writers are not neces-
sarily the best judges of front-rank writing
—and I know of no tribunal that allots
rank. The crying need in this country is
for critics who are readers, not winters. It
is only very rarely one meets a person with
a genuine interest in Australian literature
who has not a few little things of his own
in his pocket. There is every chance of a
second-rank writer, or a writer of no rank
at all, being a first-rate critic, and his posi-
tion is not so invidious as that of the
novelist who criticises novels, or the short-
storywriter who evaluates the short stories
of his friends and enemies.
Leaving the editors and getting to the
books, I should like to make a proposal.
Keeping the size of the books in view, let
Mr. Dailey say which stories he would
exclude and name the stories with which
he would replace them. In addition, Mr.
Dailey might compile a definite list, giving
name and where it might be inspected of
the best short story by (1) James Edmond,
(2) Norman Lindsay, (3) Dale Collins, (4)
Roy Bridges, (5) William Hay, (6) Adam
McCay, (7) C. A. Jeffries, (8) Frank
Middlemiss, (9) Montague Grover, (10)
“Kodak.”
It is no help merely to say that James
Edmond is a “supreme genius,” or that Wil-
liam Hay is “our chief authority on early-
Yictorian Tasmania,” or, that, surprising as
it may seem, “Kodak” detested lobster.
These statements are interesting, if true,
but quite useless in calling out some clear
and competent criticism of Australian prose.
From our critics we want absolute and
definite opinion founded upon specific quo-
tation or reference. They must give the
particulars and the reasons. It is of little
service to pile one cloudy mass of recol-
lected impressions on another, or set this
lot of enthusiastic (and probably youthful)
impressions against that. Let the critic
stand up and say that Lawson’s “Water
Them Geraniums” is one of the best short
stories ever written because, and because,
and because.
To set the ball rolling:—
(1) No better aboriginal droving story
than Katharine Susannah Prichard’s “The
Cooboo” has ever been written. (2) No
better story of Australian character, whim-
sicality and tenderness than “His Photo
on the Wall,” by Dowell O’Reilly, has ever
been written. (3) Lance Skuthorpe’s “The
Champion Bullock-driver” is the genius
of Australia in a beautiful humorous fan-
tasy. There is no “my sweetheart when a
boy” about these opinions; to prove what
I’m saying I read the stories again yester-
dajr. Edward Dyson’s “A Domestic Differ-
ence” could become a masterpiece by slight
revision, and so could Cecil Mann’s “The
Vengeance.” All these stories, except
Dyson’s, are in Nettie Palmer’s collection,
“An Australian Story -Book.”
The question whether a writer or an
editor is an “amateur” or a “professional”
should be dropped before we get too deeply
into the mire. I am weak on dates, but I
have a recollection that Henry Lawson did
some of his best work while he was a
coachpainter or a swagman or something.
Neither H. H. Richardson nor Norman
Lindsay are professional writers. It is
near-snobbery to sneer at Skuthorpe being
a “buckjump rider.” I should think buck-
jump riding was rather difficult from what
I have seen of it, and it would take some
argument to prove that it was farther from
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


m'S
■II
Hi
ft
Truth in Advertising”— the foundation-stone of honest trading, laid by
Anthony Horderns’,
The Price of this
Tailored Suit is
hard to believe.
£41910
We feel considerable pride in presenting this offer, for
we know how superbly tailored this suit is, how splendid
is its quality, how perfect its fit. Indeed, we are quite
sure that if you saw it and did not know its price your
'' T * rn would far exceed the figure at which it is
JL C- Jiw
from Indigo Dyed Serges or Jriain uic,y
Price, £4/9/6.
(There are no extra charges whatever for unusual size or style.)
And—our new season’s suitings are in, and constitute a
more comprehensive range than we have had for some
time. Prices for these are low, too. Tailored to your
measure, the prices are: £5/12/6, £6/15/-, £7/5/-,
£7/17/6 and £B/10/-
Write for patterns!
All mens wear departments are conveniently located on the Ground Floor,
George Street. We pay carriage on these suits.
Anthony
Hordern s
(The Senior Store)
’Phone: MS4OI
Day and Night.
Anthony Hordern & Sons, Ltd., Sydney
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


e
the personality of
the De Soto Six makes
an instant and last-
ing impression upon
motorists. Thousands
are immediately cap-
tivated by its charm,
its dashing style, its
virile action. Conse-
quently demand for
the De Soto Six has
shattered all sales
records for a first-year
car.
Over 100,000 owners
now drive De Soto
Sixes. They are proving
the performance of
these superb cars over
many millions of miles.
They are finding De
Soto Six a car of tire-
less energy and daunt-
less courage —a trusty,
sturdy, thrifty, traveller
—a thoroughbred per-
former.
They are broadcasting
De Soto’s deeds —pr ais-
ing its prowess—
spreading De Soto en-
thusiasm. Thus a car
that achieved the
seemingly impossible
in its first year is accel-
erating to higher and
higher success every
day.
e
New South Wales .. Grenville Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Automobiles Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland .... Stradbroke Motors, Ltd., Brisbane
South Australia .... Dominion Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Western Australia . . Wentworth Motors, Ltd., Perth
New Zealand . New Zealand Motors, Ltd., Wellington
T asmania
Metro Motors PtyLtd., Hobart


BUY A CAR
FROM US-
mu BUY
n BACK
w
If you buy it from us you
can have your own car —
any make or model you care
to choose—waiting for you
with your licence when and
where the boat docks. It
is your own. At the end of
three or six months, if you
wish to sell it, you bring it
back to us and we will give
you for it the price arranged
when you order the car
before leaving for England.
This is the best possible
way of buying yourself a
car for a visit to Britain.
You will avoid having to
re-sell it hurriedly and,
possibly, at a loss. You
will have it for the en-
tire time you are there.
If you wish, an instructor
will be lent to you free of
charge for three days.
Write to us at once about
what we can do for you.
AUTO AUCTIONS
BURLINGTON GARDENS
OLD BOND ST. LONDON W.I
World Distributors of the Blackburn Bluebird Light Aeroplane
pure literature than some other crafts —
journalism, for instance.
I want finally to say that I intend no
disrespect to any of the writers mentioned
in this article. I want only to see our criti-
cism organised in daylight.
FURNLEY MAURICE.
Hymns—or Is It Errs?
Rev. J. B. Galloway’s objections (R.P.
5/2/’3O) to the scrapping of Victorian
hymnology seem to be: (1) Anglicans have
entered church feeling miserable for the
past 300 years and should therefore con-
tinue to do so; (2) “Here We Suffer Grief
and Pain” has been popular with children
for 100 years and should therefore continue
to be so; (3) it upsets his gravity to hear
of children singing “God’s in His Heaven—
all’s right with the world”; (4) literary and
musical worth are as nothing to religious
appeal and spiritual power. With (1) and
(2) lam unable to argue. You either
believe that “what was good enough for
the people of 300 years ago is good enough
for us” or you don’t. I am one of those
who don’t. Mr. Galloway is apparently
one of those who do. Number (3) objec-
tion is also merely a matter of personal
opinion. Personally it upsets my gravity
to hear tiny tots singing boisterously and
quite non-understandingly about suffering
grief and pain. It reminds me of a little
girl I know who once brought home from
a Sunday-school class a textcard on which
wa,s printed, “I AM VILE.” Personally I
think that any Sunday-school superintend-
ent handing out texts like that to kiddies
should be put in gaol. In regard to number
(4), I would ask Mr. Galloway if he would
be prepared to give a sennon in ungram-
matical English and slang on the grounds
that the particular congregation of the
moment spoke that? Would he be willing
to put a crude, blatant, bilious-looking
stained-glass window in his church on the
grounds that the majority of his congrega-
tion decorated their homes with nasty
paintings and horribly-colored prints. In
short, does my reverend critic excuse bad
workmanship and erroneous grammar on the
grounds that they appeal to some people?
If he doesn’t, why should he excuse dismal
doggerel and maudlin “music” on similar
grounds? How does he know that decent
poetry and music will not have a greater
appeal?
To my mind vulgarity, be it in speech,
action, literature or music, is always inex-
cusable. It becomes infinitely worse when
the Church seeks to make it something holy.
KEITH BARRY.
The book of hymns that started this argu-
ment has been given an official trial.
Adopted in the new cathedral at Liverpool,
it failed. The congregations demanded the
inclusion of old favorites deliberately
omitted because of the “hymnal agony” de-
scribed by Dr. Barry, and a supplement is to
be printed containing these. The hymn-
book that is steadily making its way in the
Anglican Church is the “English Hymnal.”
First published in 1906, it met with a storm
of opposition on doctrinal grounds and in
some circles is still taboo. It set a high
literary and musical standard, but tactfully
published an appendix for the use of those
who do not agree with the taste of the
editors. The authors range from S. Ambrose
to Sankey, from Luther to G. K. Chesterton,
and the music includes Plainsong, Bach and
Sankey. The general trend seems to be
that the day of introspective sentiment sung
to sugary tunes is nearly spent and the
dawn of better taste at hand.
REGISTRARS EPISCOPUS.
About Mrs. Eddy: Stop Press
M.G.S.” (R.P. 5/2/’3O) simply misunder-
stands the position when he states that
the logical fulfilment of Mrs. Eddy’s phi-
losophy of life was immortality here on
6 ru ” .^ rs '. Eddy taught the immortality
of the individual consciousnesses, not the
immortality of a material body.
To protect the church she founded from
wrong teaching, from disloyalty and from
efforts to undermine her in her leadership,
all of which would sooner or later have
shattered it completely, necessitated some-
times the removal of those responsible for
the trouble. That is common to all human
organisations. “L.L.W.” quotes, amongst
others, the case of Mrs. Damon. Mrs.
Damon was one of eight who in 1881 re-
belled and refused to submit to Mrs. Eddy’s
leadership, for what they termed “ebulli-
tions of temper, love of money and the
appearance of hypocrisy.” On the expulsion
of the malcontents the loyal students ral-
lied round their leader and publicly de-
nounced the charges. This incident purged
J- 1 ® young church of encumbrances which
had been hampering its growth.
The statement that “Mrs. Eddy sold
copies of a Quimby MS. to her early
students for 300 dollars each” is absolutely
incorrect. Before her first pamphlet on
Christian Science was published she distri-
buted among her students MSS. embodying
the result of her Scriptural studies. Re-
garding Mrs. Eddy’s relationship to Quimby
u S met, hods, Mrs. Eddy was healed in
1862 by Quimby of spinal disease. The
relief was great, and Mrs. Eddy’s gratitude
was unbounded. Even in later years she
spoke of his “rare humanity and sympathy”
as something on which “one could write a
sonnet. . But Quimby’s method of healing
—suggestion combined with manipulation—
is poles apart from the spiritual method
of Christian Science which Mrs. Eddy dis-
covered later, in 1866, and every Christian
Scientist who understands the principle
underlying the discovery, and who can
demonstrate it, knows that the difference is
fundamental.
“L.L.W.” questions my description of the
home at Concord, N.H., as “a quite modest
country home.” He admits that it was a
farmhouse, to which Mrs. Eddy added bow
windows, verandahs, porte-cochcre, and a
tower; also fountain, boathouse and fish-
pond. A farmhouse, even with these addi-
tions, I still believe, comes within the cate-
gory of “a modest country home.” As for
Mark Twain’s opinion of Christian Science,
his early one was decidedly unfavorable,
but his biography shows that he underwent
a great change. It states: “Christian
Science is humanity’s boon. Mother Eddy
deserves a place in the Trinity as much as
any member of it. She has organised and
made available a healing principle that for
two thousand years has never been em-
ployed, except as the merest guesswork. She
is the benefactor of the age.”
It would seem that Mrs. Eddy’s chief
offence was that she successfully established
the Christian Science Church. This church
is having quite a fair measure of success
in its mission—the healing of disease and
the regeneration of human thought—and I
submit that it is unreasonable to assume
that these results could follow if Mary
Baker Eddy had been the character she is
represented by her critics to be. “A tree
is known by its fruit.”
JOSEPH F. TURNER.
Christian Science Committee on Publica-
tion for New South Wales.
A Prophet without Honor
William Hay, author of Strabane of the
Mulberry Hills (George Allen and Unwin),
has been compared by London reviewers
to Conrad. He has the same appreciation
of the right word and the same knack of
conveying the atmosphere of remote and
bizarre places; but he is without Conrad’s
gift of compression, and he is essentially
adramatic. This story of Tasmania in the
’forties proceeds over a couple of hundred
thousand words to its leisurely conclusion
in the central character’s l’envoy. Caill-
mont, with the quotation from Pericles
beginning “Or peaceful night” as his text,
passes his life, and the lives of some of his
friends and servants, in review as darkness
falls over Strabane: —
Well, the day is departing. The clouds are tinted
with russet. Dusk is here. A sudden light gleams
from some unseen sunset upon the trees and upon
the cattle as they browse in the meadow beyond the
wood. Mist gathers among the leaves. Now the
russet light falls from forest and hill, and the
trees stand shadowed and white, while their bushy
tops are drawn in rugged black strokes. At last the
trees are gone. The contented cows, too, have sunk
away into the dusk, all but their white hindlegs,
and the white blazes of the companion horses.
Caillmont has lived fully in this tiny
and primitive . community, struggled and
won and lost, loved and dreamt, braved
death at the hands of bushrangers, and
extracted a benign philosophy from it all.
The action of the book is as sedate and un-
sensational as his thought processes, but it
is gemmed with passages which are exciting
in their truth and beauty. Consider the
picture of Fannia by Brinsley Warley, the
Hobart Town Q.C.: —
Were I to try and paint a miniature of this
gifted being, I would show a slim, erect figure,
with remote, beautiful eyes, and a strange, con-
temptuous smile on lips as stern and sweetly
moulded as those of a statue. There was no fault
to be found with any of her features —her small,
straight nose, her ears like little roses, her firm,
delicately moulded chin, her dark, arched eyebrows
right to a hair, were each models on which a
sculptor could have pondered with pleasure
With a subtle shawl about the shoulders of her
sage-colored evening gown and her cheek, on which
rested the edge of a wreath of topaz flowers (the
head-dress obtaining) propped on a green fan, I
would paint her leaning at some sea-lulled casement
of St. George’s, examining us all in her statuesque
irony and contempt.
Here is a truly great Australian novelist
who, like Handel Richardson, is almost un-
known to Australian novel readers.
J. B. D.
A Satchel of Books
Ghost Tales and Legends, by H. Drum’
mond Gauld (Chambers), are mostly gath-
ered in that fertile field of such harvests
—Scotland. The writer has a good apprecia-
tion of real hair-raisers and that essential
to the making of such books —a reasonable
belief.
Ancient Rites and Ceremonies, by Grace
Keith Murray (Alston Rivers). A com-
petent stringing together of the more pic-
turesque rites, ceremonies, etc., of the
ancients of most parts of the world, marred
by the inadequacy of the mere glimpse of
Tasmania, and the total neglect of Australia,
one of the oldest and most fertile fields of the
lot.
The Case for India, by John S. Hoyland
(Dent). The case is sympathetically and
understandingly put by an English humanist
who has spent a long term in the country.
He recommends that the policy of Britain
towards India should be one of generosity
and of freedom. It is a policy which might
be also recommended to the Indian Brah-
mins.
Folk Tales of Normandy, by W. Branch
Johnson (Chapman and Hall). The kind of
book that usually results when an author
who knows how to handle good material
settles down on a topic with which he is
thoroughly conversant. Johnson has already
dealt brightly with the folktales of Provence
and Brittany, and with French folklore
generally, and his latest, ranging through
saints, fairies, witches and other eerie fblk
is gemmed with good stories and racy com-
ment expertly strung together. The book is
illustrated with pen-and-ink sketches by the
author, and they, too, are good.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
G.A.: Yes, but it was the story of The
Bulletin, and Gordon died 10 years before we were
born... .C.A.F.: Afraid it wouldn’t work until we
can lower our costs Hort B.: Strained and
overdone—that soliloquising, for instance.... Olit:
You haven’t succeeded in pulling your own leg, let
alone the reader’s P.W.: Bright, but cold—like
a luminous mushroom W.G.McK.: Edgar Wallace
is your spiritual uncle. MS. awaits you at Mel-
bourne office... .T.M.: “She shared the pretty
features of her sister.” Did they go turn and turn
about? R.P.W.: Your “Theory of Life” is full of
holes. .. .T. 8.: “My Boom” is empty. .. . J.A.K. :
“Dreaming—Meaning.” Ear treatment suggested.
. ...S.M.: Very close. ... Fare Kow: “Alas!” a very
ancient idea. .. .G.M.: Good thought behind it, but
you don’t quite bring it to the front. For the
rest, thanks. . . .R.L.8.: Leave the pen alone for a
while and do some hard reading... .G.'H.L.: It
speaks, but it doesn’t say anything. .. .J.K.A.: “To
Wine” might have been spelt with an “h”
P.T.W. : Belongs to the multitude of things scarcely
worth writing... .A.E.O’C.: If they say anything
of note we listened on the wrong wave-length... .
Kef: “Bush Fire” quickly put out. ... J.W.: Wish
you’d settle down to do one thing well H.M.C. :
Telling the other chap to laugh—at space rates —
ia a fight sort of job Otia: Idea worn 0ut....
R.W.: About as true as an In Memoriam notice,
and about as musical... .T. A. P.: ’Tisn’t the unusual
adjective that knocks it; that’s its one bright spot.
. ...K.8.: Much stronger imagery would be needed
to carry that sort of thing 0ff....8i11y the Prude:
Not a bad pen-name, all things considered... .0.E.:
“Think of it mournfully” is our choice of the quoted
lines. . . .R.N.H. : You don't giean much from “Spind-
rift” .... 8.L.W.: Perhaps it’s never futile to make
efforts, but sample isn’t encouraging.. . .J.C.: Only
interesting in stanza 6, and even that moralises....
T.McG.: Expect something printable from you at any
moment... .L.R.8.: Interest seems restricted to the
writer... .B.B.: Threw in the towel after a few rounds
with it. . . .M.M.: Awarded a long-distance medal—
and that’s all. .. .1.M.E.: If you can do half that there’s
a fortune waiting for you in the Strong Woman pro-
fession.... Beg: Fair to flat... .K.L.P.: Anyway, the
basket accepted it. .. .D.D.D.: The verse-taster
thought it was prose; the prose-taster sent it back
saying nine-sixteenths was neither. .. .G.H.V.: “The
Straw” looks suspiciously like the one that fixed
the camel.... Morris H.: You don’t quite get away
with it... .T.H.R.: Impossible to acknowledge pars.
It’s a poor week when we don’t get a thousand....
E.F.: Old Bill left mouldering... .E.D.: A supper
of sorrow. .. .R.W.J.: Story is weak; sonnet has no
feet to stand 0n... .P.A.L.C.: “Submitted for kind
criticism” —and the kindest would be too awful for
print... .R.F.E.: Plug pulled out of “Life’s Ocean.”
....Pom: Like your sense of humor, but your stuff
remains slight. .. .C.C. (Auckland): No use for the
already published. Would like to see further
sarhples. . . .H.A.P.: It’s dismal; being true doesn’t
make it any more palatable... .G.W.H.: All fail to
break through.... Ena: Good stuff in it, but total
effect is theatrical.... Ole Blue: Expect you to do
better... .1.5.: Nothing there to rattle the cash-box.
H.M.: All a fair way off scoring. .. .M.G.:
Both on the trite side... .E.A.P.: Like ’em a lot
tighter. .. .E.E.: “Doom” is where it went....
D.V.H.: Your literal reading suggests once more
that facetious statements should be printed in red
ink....V.V.: Nothing suitable for “Answers” this
week. .. .E.R.8.: Thanks; it was obviously wrong.
. ...L.H.: Rather slender for this market; might
go down elsewhere... .Viscomica: Wrong; he wrote
a lot of Kiplingesque verse before he turned novelist.
.. . .P.J.V.: “Dad’s Boots” thudded into the w.p.b.
. ...F.G.: If that’s autumn, speed winter. .. .Free
R.: No use for verse leading loosely up to point the
moral in the tail.... Ann O’D.: “Homers” describes
’em.... J.A.E.: As you call it, “A Baleful Rhyme.”
. ...M.H.: The sonnet is a poor vehicle for light
thought. .. .M.L.J.C.: Can’t find any glitter in
either. .. .O.B.: “A Surprise for Hennesey”:—
Meeting poor old Hennesey,
Worried I thought he looked;
Yes, you ought to come and see,
For he looked like one half cooked....
Well, Hennesey, good luck to your twins.
I’ll have brandy, long soda and gin.
. ...V.W.: Don’t blame her for taking the other
bloke if your building was as shaky as the verse.
. ...H.J.W.: Too many fish in that pond already.
. ...W.S.A.: Idea miles too slight. .. .8.5.: Good
swing; no sting. .. . A.G.: The thought doesn’t
amount to much.... Doorknocker: Son y yapping
dogs interfere with your hawking pursuits. Why
not read the verse to them ?... .M.R.L.: Spirit
appreciated, but don’t see how they could be used.
... . Jt: Gets below poor in places... .W.T.D.C. :
Except in very special cases cannot accept mere
reviews.... Angus McEarwig: Would need at least
another bushel of grins to get it through... .Jayde:
That sort of lad would be doomed to that sort of
future, anyway... .W.N.: Can’t see where you en-
large on “Country Fed.’s” argument... .A. E.P.: No
more O’Neill at the moment. .. .R.G.L.: Glad to
hear it’s a “true” record. It sounds like the one
they play in the next flat. . . .R.G.A.: Fair sort of
a scrap, but scrappy sort of a verse... .A.T.: Read
W. C. Wentworth’s “Australasia” and Rev. W. H.
If. Yarrington’s verses on the “Landing of Captain
Cook”. .. .C.F.H.: Book on which most of it is
based is aged. In other respects, too, the article
fails... .8.L.: No “Room for Two”... .H.J.8.:
Study in the nude bare of all merit.... G.L.L.: Too
long, and ending is inconsequential. .. .W.S.: Too
slight a theme... .H.W.8.: Not enough story in it
—but Bill, is good. .. . J.R.H.: Ebenezer neither
points a moral nor adorns the tale. .. . W.E.8.: No-
thing for “Weals” but woe... .M.L.F.: Not far off.
.. . .M.M.8.: “Melody” can’t find a setting here. .. .
E.D.B. : Spider story reads like a bad nightmare.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.F.: Hydrocephalic footballer downed... .T.0.D.:
Haven’t you sent it before?... .F. 8.: That old
thing again!....C.M.: Girl didn’t appeal. .. .H.L.;
You are easily amused if that amused you. .. .
T.M.P.: Miles off the mark... .M.C.: Might suit
the sort of paper that prints fairy tales... .R.J.R.:
Promising, as you say, but he has a lot to learn....
G.P.: Your dad and Dave would pass for Slavs....
J.F.: Sorry, but it doesn’t fit in....J.5.: Let’s hear
from you when the old joker completes another
century. ...J.C.: Try it on some agricultural journal.
. ...A.J.F.: Returned without regrets... .G.G.: All
impossible.... F.W.: You’ll be sketching on the
return half of a railway ticket next....W.W.L.:
Lady with wrinkled stockings was warned off.


ŵ
JB'hce
r• « "
''l
f
v^« 6 ' *»***>:
*,*/■ " . 1 •• /S^fcA
' *% : lili
'I
B. SEPPELT & SONS
HSIV SOUTH AUSTRALIA j£|
ẁ
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 51.—N0. 2612.
March 5, 1930.
THE AMENDED JUDGMENT OF PARIS.
“By 80 votes to 75 the All-Australian Conference of Trade Unions defeated the motion for continued affiliation with the Pan-Pacific Secretariat.”
“Here, please give me that apple back; I handed it to the wrong one.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 21i George Street, Sydney;
Box 252188 ; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: lli-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 2)9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: SS Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar .57 95.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 l t s.; 6 months, 12s. 6a.;
S months, 7s.
To any address OVERSEAS: 12 months, £1 10s.;
G months, 16s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: ioz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional 1/oz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: J/Oz. or part thereof.
Id. Elsewhere, 2pz., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED page LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
“Bulletin’s” Second Novel Competi-
tion”—A Remarkable Discovery—
By Cecil Mann .. .. .. .. 2
AUSTRALIA’S SHORT STORY WRITERS—
By Furnley Maurice .. . . 2, 5
HYMNS, by Dr. Barry and Another .. .. 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON .. ..7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
What Must We Do to Be Saved? • • 8
WHEAT AND OTHER BONUSES .. ..8
UNCLE SAM AND THE PHILIPPINES—
By “Feng-Shui” .. .. . . .. 8
M.L.’S WAR ON UNEMPLOYMENT . . . . 8
WAR BOOKS—BY BASE HEROES . . . . 9
SHOULD MALLEE FARMS BE GIVEN AWAY? 9
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 9
POLITICAL POINTS (with cartoonlets by
Frith) .. .. i. .. .. 10
Shadow Shows
A Guide to the Pictures .11
A STUDY BY PERCIVAL 11
PERSONAL (with caricatures) .. .. .. 13
SOCIETY (with drawings) . . .. 14, 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
THIS WEEK’S INVESTMENT TIP . . . . 18
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ]8
NEWCASTLE & HUNTER RIVER STEAM . . 18
VICTORIA PALACE 18
SYDNEY HYDRAULIC 18
HOLDEN’S 20
ASSOCIATED NEWSPAPERS 20
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 23, 25
Free Service Department 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 31
HOW TO KEEP FARM ACCOUNTS . . .. 28
WESTRALIAN WHEAT VARIETIES . . . . 28
WHEAT PRICES AND F.A.Q 28
FIGHTING TOMATO WILT 31
QUESTIONS ANSWERED 31
SMOKE-OH (with three drawings) .. .. 32
POVERTY POINT 35
GOSSIP OF THE INKY WAY 35
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, etc 36
SPORTING (illustrated) 39, 41, 42
MOOREFIELD RACES 39
V.R.C. NEWMARKET 39
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 45
NEW SERIALr—“MEN ARE HUMAN”—
By Vance Palmer .. .. ..47, 51, 52
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE .. ..48
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 50
“As We Said Before”
A NEW WEEKLY FEATURE .. ..55
TWO COMPLETE STORIES—
“THE MURDERER”—
By Margaret Fane and Hilary Lofting..s7, 58
“MAHOMED THE UNFAITHFUL”—
By E. J. Brady .. .. .. .. 58
VERSE—By Mary Gilmore, Kiff, John Barr,
Patricia Murchison 52, 58
NEXT WEEK.
A remarkable Papuan Story by S. S.
Severn.
“The Bulletin,” having had its Jubilee,
will print a weekly page of reproductions
of the gems of prose, picture and verse
it published in the ’eighties. Next week’s
instalment will include “The Wreck of the
Derry Castle,” Henry Lawson’s first pub-
lished poem, with J. F. Archibald’s intro-
ductory note.
TTuT&xxlletz/yi
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 5, 1930.
WHAT MUST WE DO TO BE
SAVED?
It is quite obvious that that good half of
the community which generally votes Labor
has not yet begun to realise the position
this country is in. Even the business sec-
tion is learning the facts with surprise. On
a recent day an Australian commercial
potentate proceeded to complete his
arrangements for going to Europe. Accus-
tomed to free spending, he asked his bankers
for a sum to be transferred to his credit
in London —a sum liberal certainly, but less
than one-fourth of his average annual
income for years past. He was told that
it could not be done; all that the banker
could make available was one-fifth of the
amount asked for. The potentate thus
learned that a man might have a million
pounds in a bank here, and still be unable
in the present crisis to get more than £IOOO
put to his credit in London to finance a
visit to Jno. Bull.
The explanation is that we cannot ship
orchards or sheep-stations or wheat- or
sugar-farms to London, and that most of
any man’s million is probably represented
I&r those things. Even if he sold the
ŵ
FIDDLING WITH REFORM.
Priminister Scullin sagaciously observed
at the conclusion of the recent Premiers’
Conference that Australia is faced with
“an urgent need to explore every possible
means of putting industry on a sound basis,
promoting production, increasing exports
and eliminating all unnecessary imports,
thus rectifying an adverse trade balance.”
Now, as Mr. Scullin ought to know, the
principal handicap upon our export trade
is a cost of production in excess of that
ruling in the countries with which we do
business—the harvest of long years during
which the various Arbitration Courts have
endeavored, quite unsuccessfully, to put
wages a lap ahead of the increase in the
cost of living which every increase in
nominal wages brings in its train. There
is no royal road out of that vicious circular
track. If Australia is to trade with the
rest of the world on equal and profitable
terms it must reduce its production costs,
either by getting more work done for the
same wages or by adopting a wage scale
more equitably proportioned to its present
rate of production.
There is no evidence that the new Federal
Government has a desire to come to grips
with either of those alternatives. The only
contributions to the solution of the prob-
lem which it has offered up to date are
proposals to stimulate certain divisions of
the export trade by export bounties. In
this category may be placed the proposed
subsidisation of the wages of miners
employed by the Associated Northern Col-
lieries of N. S. Wales. There are various
other sound objections to this proposal—a
very practical one is the refusal of the
employers concerned to accept the bonus
—but its worst defect is that, instead of
attempting to remove the conditions which
have well-nigh strangled Australia’s, coal
export trade, it proposes to maintain them.
Then there is a proposal, bound up with
a compulsory plan for a Commonwealth
pool, to guarantee by regulation a return
of 4s. per bushel at sidings, to wheatgrowers.
That is not going to add a penny to the re-
turn which Australia will get for the export-
able portion of its wheat harvest, and it will
leave the high cost of wheat production
where it was, or—since all these additional
subsidies involve additional taxation—a
little bit higher. In the same boat is the
increase in the wine-export bounty, which
is to move from Is. to Is. 6d. per gallon.
The wheat-growers and the vignerons have
had a hard row to hoe, and would welcome
intelligent assistance—incidentally, the Fed-
eral proposals for improving facilities for
the bulk handling of wheat deserve a
cheer —but their case is not one that can
be permanently alleviated by export
bounties, which are-, at best, temporary
expedients for the winning of new markets
or the introduction of new commodities.
Australia’s markets are established and her
exportable commodities have to compete
with those of a wide range of competitors.
But it is not so much the particular pro-
posals itemised that call for condemnation
—open to criticism as they are on the
grounds stated—as the absence of any other
attempt to put Australian export trade on
the “sound basis” which Mr. Scullin admits
it is not standing on. The Priminister
perceives the need for “the strictest
economy in expenditure, both public and
private,” but the offer of extensive and
indeterminate bounties, quite futile as a
means of reviving external trade, does not
give evidence of a determination to tread
that strait and harrow path, but rather
shows an inclination to pursue the broad
downward road along which the nation has
for so long been diligently moving.
UNCLE SAM AND THE PHILIPPINES.
Time was when Uncle Samuel honestly
believed God intended him to be an imper-
ialist. Not a bad, wicked old imperialist
like the Briton, but an entirely new sort,
peculiar to God’s own country. He was to
be entirely compounded of idealism—loo
per cent, of it. Having now been in the
Philippines for upwards of 25 years, he has
had time enough to justify his claim that
he was going to show John Bull, who had
failed so signally in India, how Brown
Brother should be governed—or, rather,
taught to govern. He begins to complain
that the darned fellows don’t know how to
be saved.
The first principle of his rule in the 3000-
odd islands which Admiral Dewey so unex-
pectedly dropped into his lap is that what
is right for the highly civilised, energetic,
nationalistic and politically educated
American must be equally right for the
village-dwelling, severely localised, politi-
cally ignorant, lymphatic and entirely
unnationalistic Filipino. . The political
machinery is an exact replica of Uncle Sam’s
—except that it doesn’t function. The
Dutch and British use the adat, or custom-
ary law, for settling native quarrels, and
it works admirably. The Americans have
transplanted their own legal system, and
the Malay does not understand it, though
he indulges in litigation with a whole-
hearted enthusiasm.
The main purpose for which Uncle Sam
ostensibly came into the Philippines has
not been realised. The country has been
handed over, but not to the full-blood.
The small minority of mestizos, or half-
castes, actually run the Government. In
the kampongs they have replaced the rajas,
whom the Spaniards encouraged, and the
change is not necessarily for the better. In
the city they are the white-collar men
who run the Treasury, print revolutionary
newspapers and talk sedition. Their only
serious competitors are the Chinese, who,
however, have few political rights and will
be massacred as soon as the white troops are
withdrawn. Such a massacre has happened
many times previously.
Introducing American civilisation has
doubled the cost of living, engendered a
demand for Fords and pianolas, and made
half the nation debtor slaves to the Chinese
middle-man. Nor does American big business
get the customary reward of idealism. Nearly
80 per cent, of the retail and 50 per cent,
of the wholesale import trade is in the
hands of the Celestials. American capital-
ists are afraid to do business under their
own flag, but make their rubber plantations
in British Malaya or the Dutch East
Indies. In addition, the Filipino is inside
the American tariff barrier. His sugar passes
into the States free, and the American beet-
sugar industry languishes in consequence,
while Cuban sugar, grown with American
capital, is only kept alive by subsidies. The
Filipino is also not subject to the immigra-
tion laws, and thousands of him are under-
cutting white Americans in California.
Nevertheless, Uncle Sam still sticks to the
idealism which is his life blood; but a new
note has crept into it. Senators are less
decided on the subject of the white man’s
burden now at Washington. One school
openly advocates offering the islands to
Germany. Another suggests an arrange-
ment between the Pacific Powers whereby
they will merely keep the ring while the
freed Filipinos murder each other. It is
significant that a measure granting Philip-
pine independence after a short number of
years narrowly missed being passed in Con-
gress. The ideal of service is always sub-
ject to modification when economic factors
hurt the profits.
If the Philippines remain American
property they will always be liable to cap-
ture in the case of war, and national
sentiment will demand a costly expedition
to recover them. That is why the Cheaper
War Conference in London has been buzz-
ing with rumors about the archipelago.
One is that the Americans have proposed
to Japan naval neutralisation of the area.
It would be a good idea if the parties
stuck to it, if France, Holland and Britain
were brought into the arrangement, and if
the Filipino used his independence with the
same self-restraint and sanity that Siam
has. But Siam is not a brown democracy.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Maoriland's War on Unemployment.
Maoriland has partially abolished its un-
employed—union statistics show that
whereas 10 p.c. of the members were idle
12 months ago only 5.6 p.c. are idle now—
but it has got weary of having the problem
hanging around in a loose, untidy manner
and is taking steps to regularise the posi-
tion. To this end two committees were set-
up by the Government —one to consider
means of relieving distress occasioned by
inability to find work, and the other to
investigate the manufacturing industries
and their capability of giving more em-
ployment if afforded more tariff protection.
The first of these committees has now
reported, recommending the establishment
of a relief fund of £1,050,000 a year, whffih
it is reckoned will be sufficient to pay
doles on a frugal scale —from 12s. 6d. a week
to girls of 18-20 up to 545. 6d. to a man
with a wife and four children. There is,
of course, nothing new in such a dole; but
the Maoriland committee breaks new
ground in refusing to make employers
carry most of the weight of the baby, a
method which, as experience elsewhere has
shown, nurtures the seeds of unemploy-
ment. Wage-earners are to provide £505,000
in contributions ranging from 12s. to 245.
per annum; flat taxes of Id. in the £ on
taxable incomes and undistributed profits
of companies and a tax of 3-16th pence
in the £ on ’ taxable unimproved value of
country lands will provide £170,000, and
1 per cent, impost on the general-rate
revenue of local bodies will provide an-
other £25,000. That brings the fund up to
£700,000, and the remaining £350,000 is to
come out of the Consolidated Fund. An
Employment Board is to do the work of
administration, which includes the control
of all relief jobs, State or local, and it will
advise the Government regarding the ex-
pansion and development of industry.
The plan is open to criticism on various
grounds—for one thing, unemployment
doles, however meagre at the start, have a
way of expanding—but some palliative
must be found for a very dangerous social
condition while the lengthy process of
digging out its roots is attempted. The
Dominion plan, coupled as it is with an
earnest effort to get at those roots, is a
very practical contribution, not to the
solution, but to the treatment, of a very
difficult problem.
Unemployment is always a symptom of
unwise or inefficient government. That
does not mean that it is a prime duty
of a Government to find everyone a job,
but that its duty is to govern in such a
way that there is work for everyone. If
that responsibility were as well understood
in Australia as it seems to be in the islands
on the other side of the Tasman, the
broad lagoons in which we breed Bolshevik
mosquitoes would show signs of diying up.
O
Our Brother the Enemy.
There is an interesting resemblance be-
tween Australia’s present industrial position
and that of Britain in 1917. Thousands of
British unionists were on a very good
wicket, so far as wages went, when their
country’s existence was imperilled. They
strongly resisted any scheme which threat-
ened their prosperity, their leaders pointing
out that, but for capitalistic greed and
inefficiency, there would be no need for
lower wages, longer hours, increased pro-
duction or dilution. Commissions on Indus-
trial Unrest issued report after report, but
the propaganda against reasonableness went
on. The “Times” remarked at the time: —
“The revolutionist is blind to the facts.
He gives no moment’s thought to danger
from the foreign foe because liis field of
vision is entirely occupied by the class
struggle.”
That exactly describes our present position.
Our revolutionaries blither- about Capital-
ism being the enemy, and claim that if the
members of the proletariat only stand
together, regardless of race or color, no one
can defeat them. But they never do stand
together. What they usually do, even in
white communities, is to try to get more out
of every given industry than there is in it,
and then, when the crash comes, they go
back on one another to save their depend-
ants from starvation. It is only a few
years since Australian theatrical employees
took to unionism, and boosted payments to
stagehands, musicians, chorus-girls, etc., to


THE RISING TIDE.
VOICES FROM THE SHORE: “You’re going to be drowned in a minute, Canute, if you don’t get back to earth.”
unprecedented heights. The industrial
enemy duly appeared in the form of the
talkies, and now the drama, which might
have triumphed if it had been able to lower
production costs, is in a 'bad way. Are the
brethren of the stage standing together
against the common enemy? Far from it!
They are assisting in the rout of their own
industry by taking jobs in the talkies!
The fate which has overtaken the theatre
is going to overtake a number of other
Australian industries—notably the coal
industry—unless the workers employed in
them come to their senses, as the British
workers did, under the influence of leaders
of the Clynes and Thomas stamp, in 1917.
They need to realise that the revolution-
aries’ talk about the Brotherhood of the
Proletariat is bunkum. There is only one
reliable foundation for industrial relation-
ships in this world of fierce competition—
community of interest. An Australian
worker will do better for himself by coming
to a reasonably satisfactory business
arrangement with a solvent Australian
employer than he will by getting affection-
ate messages from all the hungry coolies
in Asia.
♦
Robbing Father to Pay Uncle.
Dear Bulletin, —D. H. Rundle, writing from
the U.S.A. (B. 19/2/’3O), says there is nothing,
or not much, in Bruce’s statement that Uncle
Hoover discourages the entrance of Aus-
tralian wool into the States. He gives some
figures, and makes a sort of case by the
device of stopping short at the date which
suits the case, which is 1925-26. There was
a kind of boom in the wool trade just
then, and perhaps that wakened Uncle to
the conviction that he should push up his
tariff, and either furnish himself with wool
or use local substitutes, and, anyhow, keep
the dollars at home. (In 1925-26 Australia
bought 37 millions’ worth from Uncle and
sold him 13 millions’ worth, and he reached
out his hand for 24 million sovereigns to
settle the difference, but that needn’t pre-
vent him wanting a bigger difference in his
favor and more sovereigns.) These are
some recent figures, being the tail-end of
Mr. Bundle’s collection and a few more
to eke out the story:—
Australian Greasy Wool Sold to the United
States.
1925- (Quoted by Rundle) .. 61,318,0001 b.
1926- (Omitted by Rundle) .. 41,446,2431 b.
1927- „ „ „ .. 27,089,3771 b.
1928- „ „ „ . . 19,154,2001 b.
There is no earthly reason why Uncle
Hoover shouldn’t shut out our wool and
our anything and everything else if he can
do without them. But there is every reason
why Australia should retaliate with the
utmost effort to dispense with Uncle’s
wares in return. A general reason is the
dreadful necessity for more industries to
save its people from starvation. If it
can make its own motor-spirit out of coal
or molasses, or any real or imaginary sub-
stance, and build its own cars and picture-
films, it will make work and save money.
If it has to do without to a considerable
extent while it is building up larger indus-
tries, it will at least save money. And a
very particular reason is that the United
States is, and has been for many years,
and fully intends to continue being, our
worst customer in the way of selling us
much, rejecting our products in return, and
demanding gold for the difference. Our own
output of the metal which is boiled down
into sovereigns being only a drop in the
bucket of the Yankee demand, Australia
has borrowed to an insane extent in Lon-
don. The business has been a callous
matter of robbing Father to pay Uncle
Yours, etc., J. E.
O
Base Depot Mud-stingers.
Those who know regard the attacks made
on the A.I.F. by writers of recent war-books
as high compliments. The average pur-
veyor of war-horrors saw no more front-
line work than the author of “All Quiet,”
who, according to the German Officers’
Association, “never got nearer the Western
Front than a Recruit Depot.” The fighting
men showed their scorn for these frauds
who dressed like soldiers, and earned
soldiers’ decorations, but did their active
service in comfortable offices. It is safe to
say that there was more real hatred between
the fit young men in cushy jobs and the
often unfit and elderly men in the line than
there was between the latter and the enemy.
The best proof that the Diggers are
hated by the war-book writers, not for
their misdeeds, but for their prowess as
soldiers, is that they are usually coupled
with the Guards. “War Is War,” the latest
of these impudent fakes, says the Austra-
lians “killed a lot of military police,” but
were “brave,” and that “most Guards
N.C.O.’s would do anything, including
murder, for 2s. 6d.,” but were “fine soldiers.”
What such writers mean the public to read
into their statements is that members of
shock battalions were scoundrels, and that
the reputable soldiers were those in Base
depots and such places.
The cowardly have tried to justify
themselves by disparaging the brave after
every war; they are offered exceptional
chances just now owing to Russian and
pacifist propaganda. Which explains the
sudden rush of war-books.
Perhaps They’re the Wrong Professors,
It is difficult to preserve that profound
respect for the Sydney University’s Faculty
of Economics which a right-thinking person
would desire. England, where our pro-
fessors mostly sprout their feathers, has
been lending out money for years, the same
as the United States, and its political
economy isn’t made for a country which
has exhausted itself with borrowing. A
professor with a sound training in Turkey
might better understand the situation.
On February 23 a Sydney paper had a
column headed “Which Is the Way Back
to Prosperity?” by E. R. Walker, aeting-
Dean of the Economics. He didn’t suggest
doing more work, or doing with only such
imports as the nation can pay for without
being an unhonored mendicant in the
world’s loan markets. Instead, he prescribed
this:—
“I sh ° ll ld say that the first step should be
to export gold to London in sufficient quan-
tities to rehabilitate our London balances
Australia has gold in excess of the statutory
reserve requir-d fo cover the note issue to
the extent of £11,000,000.... Exchange stabi-
lity would be speedily secured, and Aus-
tralian credit in London would improve
accordingly.”
Australia, which produces under £2,000,000
of gold a year, has shipped away £17,000,000
in eight months. That being quite insuffi-
cient for the case, difficulties have in-
creased till a general stoppage of public
works is imminent, and “exchange stability”
hasn’t been secured. The shipment of the
meagre balance isn’t calculated to secure
it, either. When a country has loafed into
the habit of borrowing abroad £5 per in-
habitant, or over £30,000,000 per annum, to
make up for small production and bloated
importation, and the loan supply runs
short, the possession of 11,000,000 sovereigns
still on hand counts for little.
Britain never had the habit of borrowing
£5 per inhabitant (over £200,000,000 per
annum) abroad in peace time, so it never,
up to the time when our budding professors
studied their alphabet there, built up an
economic philosophy to meet the case.
Small Sister’s Wasted Water.
Tasmania has decided, for no obvious
reason, to give a couple of assistants to
general-manager Curtis, who has bossed the
State-owned hydro-electric business solus
these several years in succession to S’John
Butters, of Canberra. An attempt was made
in Parliament to extend the functions of
the Commissioners to the control of all
lakes and rivers in the State, but the
attempt failed, the McPhee following appa-
rently recognising that the bigger scheme
would call for more experienced men than
those immediately available.
At present the water asset of Tasmania
is largely wasted, inasmuch as the raw
material might be used for irrigation as
well as power-production, thus reducing
overhead costs and largely increasing the
fertility of the island’s most accessible and
easily-cultivable areas in the Midlands.
Already Yallourn, in Victoria,
ing power as cheaply as Tasmania, and
unless Small Sister can find a way of get-
ting greater economic value out of- her
water asset it is possible that the despised
brown-coal field of Gippsland will soon
leave her behind as a producer of cheap
power.
Irrigation on a large scale is possible and
profitable and eminently desirable for Tas-
mania; but no other State is so backward
in securing effective control of the national
water supply. The question of riparian
rights has never been settled there in a
definite manner. Vested interests still arro-
gantly straddle practically every river and
creek in the island, and the delegates of
those interests in Parliament splutter with
indignation if anybody dares to suggest
that the so-called rights of the straddlers
are less than sacred. Some land-titles give
the owner the fee simple to high water in
tidal rivers, some fix the legal boundary at
low water - and empower the owner to treat
as a trespasser or a burglar any small' boy
caught gathering mussels on the rocks be-
tween high and low tide. The State’s
absolute right to control the waters of the
country in the interests of the community
ought to go unquestioned. In Tasmania it
doesn’t. Luckily the highland lakes have
always been Crown property, otherwise the
State’s hydro-electric project would have
been strangled at birth.
The sooner Small Sister sets up a strong
Commission or some such body, and clothes
it with effective powers to control all water
affairs throughout the State, the better.
The first act of such a body, or nearly the
first, would be to put a stop to the folly
of expensively impounding and harnessing
water for the production of electrical energy,
and then permitting it to run off to sea
without asking it for further service.
—&
Should Mallee Farms Be Given Away?
Dear Bulletin, — I agree with “Lucerne
Flea” (B. 19/2/’3O) when he says that every
Mallee farmer should be given the deeds
of his farm. I do not altogether agree with
him when he says that this class of country
should be- given only to men experienced
in its conditions. A man experienced in
any set of conditions may have gained his
experience as a hired hand and find himself
at sea when thrown on his own resources.
Another man may have no experience of a
given set of conditions, but may possess
an intelligent initiative which more than
compensates for his lack of experience.
In the Victorian Mallee a question of
far greater moment is whether some of it
ought ever to have been thrown open for
wheat farming. The north-west Mallee is
certainly in question, .and the State Gov-
ernment shows signs of realising it: the
Closer Settlement Board is investigating
its policy of settlement. The results of the
investigation are foreshadowed in such
statements as that “the question has now
arisen of whether it would not be wiser
to devote greater attention to settlement
in the southern areas Experience over
the past four years has indicated that there
may be a possibility of prolonged Govern-
ment assistance to settlers to enable them
to succeed.”
The Mallee is 130 miles from its southern
boundary to its north-west settlements
round Mildura and Red Cliffs, and not
only do the growing-period rains diminish
in quantity as you go north, but they
become more and more erratic. However
perfect the system of cultivation a lOin
rainfall is perilously near the minimum
even for dry farming; it has proved to
be disastrous when year after year the rains
fail when they are needed most.
Not without reason the coldly calculating
Development Commission refused to sanc-
tion funds available under the £34,000,000
agreement for the construction of a new
developmental railway in the north-west
Mallee on the grounds that, among other
things, “the community will be called upon
to bear a substantial financial burden,”
while the indications were that the settlers
would be likely, on an average, to derive
incomes considerably below a living wage,
and endure the adverse effects of bringing
un their families in conditions of struggle
and privation. This after the only genu-
ine attempt at an investigation of the
north-west Mallee.
There is a geographic and climatic limit
to payable cultivation under dry conditions.
When that limit is reached or passed the
most brilliant farmer avails no more than
his moron neighbor.—Yours, etc., Nero.


MOTOR OIL
SHELL
MOTOR SPIRIT
5970.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Trade Union Congress in Melbourne
did one sensible thing—it cut loose from the
so-called Pan-
Pacific Secretariat
and declared its
“unequivocal allegi-
ance to the White
Australia policy.”
Certainly the voting
was only 80 to 75,
and if it had been
left to the N.S.W.
delegates the “sec-
retariat” would
have won; but for
a twelvemonth at
least the Common-
wealth veill be
spared the nauseat-
ing spectacle of
alleged Australians
“Scabskis!”
going to Canton or Vladivostock and humbly
taking orders from arrogant Muscovites and
Asiatics as to Australian trade-union policy.
The A.C.T.U.. has appointed a committee
“to formulate a policy for the resumption of
work on the northern coalfields of N.S.W.
under pre-stoppage conditions.” In the last
year of pre-stoppage conditions there were
over 150 strikes on the Newcastle-Maitland
field alone, and the coal output of Aus-
tralia declined by 1,700,000 tons. It isn’t
worth while to resume dying where the pro-
cess left off.
Circumstances will force the Hogans
(Vic.) to economise to a much greater extent
in 1930-31 than in 1929-30, and heads of
departments are fortifying themselves for
shocks. It is equally certain that more taxa-
tion will be proposed. The Government
expects to get £125,000 from the tote in the
first twelvemonth, basing the low estimate
on the supposition that it will take race
clubs a few months to set up the parapher-
nalia. In the meantime the betting-tickets
tax will go on, and when the tote is at work
it may be increased.
The Commonwealth Public Accounts Com-
mittee, led by Coleman, M.H.R., has spent
several weeks in the Speck exploring its
uttermost inhabited parts and asking all
manner of questions. Towards the end of
its stay it wrestled with the “Case for Tas-
mania,” prepared by Prof. Hytten on the
State Government’s account. But Hytten
wasn’t half so eloquent as the scores of tons
of luscious berry fruit left unharvested for
lack of a payable market.
Trade-union officials who wanted the police
removed from Rothbury, so that a mob might
safely assault an inferior number of free
laborers, found a use for the force in Mel-
bourne. When a deputation of unemployed
met outside the Trades Hall during the
A.C.T.U. conference a hasty appeal went to
Russell-street for “protection.”
Barr and Lock, of
the Vic. Licenses Re-
duction Board, are
commencing the second
year of their three-
year term; Tanner,
the third member, will
finish his current
period on June 30.
By judicious thinning
the board has done
more good in the last
20 years than 40 local-
option polls would
have achieved. It has
weeded out the bad
pubs, and has had the
passable ones im-
proved. A 60 per
cent, vote for no-
license on the last
Saturday in March
would undo all this
fine work, but Vic-
torians are not likely
to abandon their
model system for a
crazy imitation of
U.S. pro-hic-bition.
Six Japanese submarines are to visit
Singapore this year. The last word in
underwater monsters, they have a cruising
range of 15,000 miles, and when they submerge
a mother ship directs their movements by
means of a new signalling device. It is
only 70 years since the Mikado’s subjects
were forbidden to leave their shores under
pain of decapitation. The Japanese learn
things almost as quickly as the MacDonalds
and Scullidores forget them.
A devoted little band of permanent soldiers
and ex-A.I.F. officers, among whom Senator
“Pompey” Elliott is conspicuous, are making
great efforts to enlist the 35,000 men required
for the new army. They deserve to succeed,
and it will be a national tragedy if they
don’t; but they are getting little help from
the Government and none from the leader of
the alleged “Australian party.” That pricked
balloon took all the credit he could get for
the introduction of compulsory training, but
he did not utter a word of protest when the
Scullidores did away with it and disbanded
40,000 young soldiers. He is too scared to
say anything but “Yes, M'r. Scullin,” to all
the Scullidore proposals, knowing that he
will never win North Sydney without the
Scullidore vote.
In Chicago last week the price of wheat
fell to 98 cents the bushel —only a penny
a bushel more than the Scullidores propose
to pay for wheat delivered at stations and
sidings, all freight and port charges, etc.,
to be added. There has been a bit of a
rally since, but it is no use ignoring the
possibility that the taxpayers may have to
find a lump of the guarantee. At sixpence
a bushel their liability might amount to
five millions, or more than half of last year’s
Federal income-tax revenue (£9,841,500),
and where could the five millions be got?
Australia won’t be saved by expedients de-
signed to prolong the inflation of prices,
wage-rates, land values, rents and Govern-
ment costs by heaping taxes still higher.
Better far to realise that these things will
all have to come down and strive to make
£3 buy what it takes £4 to buy now.
It seems to be the rule in Australia never
to sell anything near the place in which
it is produced. Thus, though oranges and
mandarins are grown to perfection in Cook-
town, they must on no account be sold in
Cairns, 100 miles away, though Cairns
would be a brisk buyer. Pulp them rather
and send them to the South. The Atherton
Tablelands, again, can raise the choicest of
apples, pears, bananas and pineapples. But
it is reckoned far better that Cairns should
import its apples and pears from Sydney or
Brisbane, especially Sydney, which is so
much further south.
South Africa is applying in London for
£6,000,000 at 5 per cent., the stock to be
issued at £9B 10s. British financial authori-
ties have presumably advised the Union Gov-
ernment that the money can be found, yet
Australia couldn’t get as much at 6 per
cent. The supreme difference is that South
Africa has a steady excess of exports with
which to cover its external interest bill,
while Australia doesn’t export enough to pay
for its imports alone, and borrows so that it
may pay John Bull his interest with his
own money.
Mrs.. Percy Russell, wife of a Melb.
lawyer, has been asked by the executive of
Not Having Any.
the Vic. Housewives’ Association to resign
the presidency of that organisation because
of her activity against prohibition. The
lady has decided to hold on till the general
meeting this month; she claims that she was
largely instrumental in raising the member-
ship from 15,000 to 29,000. This disagree-
ment has been the only striking incident in
the campaign for and against no-license.
Joseph Ward floated one big instalment of
his big loan, with the
usual consequences.
During the last nine
months of 1929, Maori-
land more than doubled
its importation o f
motor-vehicles, that
being the easiest way
by which folk with
money to burn can get
rid of it. Some 60
millions remain to be
borrowed now to fill
up the measure of
Joseph’s policy. It
looks, however, as
though it never will be
filled up, for little is
neard of the policy
now, and little is heard
of Joseph. People be-
gin already to wonder
why they got excited
over his reappearance.
One of the recent
tales of freak outrage
from Russia, where
God has been formally
abolished, concerned
the slaying of some
priests who were stripped, flogged and
dragged round the streets by the feet with
mixed tortures till they died. It doesn’t
sound improbable. The Bolsheviks here who
get their instructions from Moscow are a
comparatively small flock as yet, and have to
do their outrages in a hurry and then bolt
for shelter. In fact, they only outrage by
deputy, having the yellow streak well
developed. But when they sooled a mob on
to some Australian miners at Ashtonfields,
and the victims were stripped, beaten and
dragged over the ground by the feet, the
leaders showed that they have the real Bol-
shevik intentions, _ and will live up to the
Bolsh reputation if they get the chance.
There was a trace of humor even about the
unspeakable brutality of Ashtonfields. One of
the individuals on trial said proudly that he
had acted in defence _of a principle. Being
asked what the principle was he replied, not
quite so proudly, but still with the air of a
free and enlightened “industrialist,” that he
didn’t know.
Belated but commendably vigorous pro-
nouncement from the “S. M. Herald”:—
To build railways and tramways and irrigation
works which will not pay working expenses, merely
to keep politicians in place and power, is bringing
us. to national bankruptcy. No new works should be
initiated, and that construction in which only
spade work has commenced should be abandoned
until the present railway systems have been placed
on a payable basis.
The Bulletin has said that often, but with
the addendum that there should be an immense
suppression of the importation of things
which can be made in Australia. We can
no longer afford to buy such things abroad,
and the making of them here would supply
employment to help the men who would be
sacked from impossible loan “railways and
tramways and irrigation works.”
“J.E.”: As an alternative to shutting
down on imports of motor-cars one “Zanzi-
Not Much in Our Line.
bar” suggests an
embargo on some-
thing “of much less
utility,” being “the
immense stock of
toys that come
from various parts
of the world” (B.
26/2/’3O). Aus-
tralia in 1928-
29 sent away
£13,812,480 to pay
for foreign motor
vehicles and acces-
sories, and only
£346,121 for foreign
toys. It has a defi-
nite capacity for
making things like
motors, and it has
never specialised
much in the purple
monkey which bobs
up and down on a yellow stick.
Anxiety to get away from Australia is a
big emotion these days. Before the s.s. City
of Glasgow left Fremantle last week for
effete Europe a search led to the digging
out of 16 stowaways. Any who were so
skilful as to evade discovery will probably
be dead on arrival at the next port of call,
it being 24 days ahead. The hope of illicit
passengers is that they may get a job in
Europe making clothes and such-like to be
worn by Australians.
The Vic. Country party and the National-
ist country members—there are 11 in each
group—are to have another conference pre-
sently to see if they can arrange an alliance.
Barring accidents, there is not much chance
of disturbing the Hogan Government. The
four Country Progressives will abandon the
Ministry when redistribution of seats is
brought on, but Forrest and Gray, the
“Liberals,” will be dependable on that issue,
and two or three metropolitan Nationalists
(Menzies for one) will also be in favor of five
extra seats for Melbourne. So Labor is as
safe as any party can be that lacks a
majority of its own.
There was an instructive incident at the
great pilgrimage at Allahabad, where over
4,500,000 Indians have been bathing in the
Ganges. An elephant went amok, and as
the Hindu believes in the sacredness of all
life, even that of a murderous pachyderm,
nothing was done about it until a British
magistrate warned the lethargic mob and then
captured the lunatic single-handed. The day
after India gets its independence 70 million
Moslems will run amok and there won’t be
any British magistrates available. The last
time anything like that happened was in
1921, when some thousands of Hindus were
forcibly circumcised before the foreign
tyrant was able to step in and put a stop to
the operations.
The state of the metal markets makes it
necessary for Australia to roll up its sleeves
an inch or two higher than it might other-
wise have to do. Only copper has any life
in it at all. For the five years to the end
of 1929 lead averaged £27 3s. 2d.; it was
worth only £2O 3s. 9d. at the week-end.
Zinc, Broken Hill’s other big stand-by, aver-
aged £29 16s. 2d. in the five years; it is
down to £lB 6s. 3d. now. The collapse in
spelter (zinc) is also making the big Elec-
trolytic Zinc Co., Tasmania’s biggest indus-
try, very thoughtful indeed.
No pair of Australian politicians ever
bought a poorer job at a higher price than
Scullin and Theodore. They promised to
settle the coal strike; to find work for the
unemployed (as a matter of course) ; to do
better with the finances (as a matter of
course) ; and to sacrifice Page’s hopeful
money-raising device of a tax on film mag-
nates. On these
terms they Acquired
Page’s deficit and
the falling revenue.
They secured the
loan stoppage.
They arrived in
time to be visibly
responsible for
wholesale disipis-
sals and the seiz-
ure of the gold re-
serves. And they
acquired a: coal
trouble for which
the Federal Gov-
ernment was re-
sponsible, while
Bruce and Co. had
only one for which
Loaded.
it wasn’t responsible. The new people
created the difference by saying that they had
a remedy in their hands and by not producing
it. ■ r;. ■
Yielding to pressure from their industrial
section, the Hogans have agreed to summon
Vic. Parliament to re-assemble on April 2
to make some financial provision for the
jobless. Additional income-tax has been sug-
gested. That would mean levying on the
same old 143,000 and exempting many in
safe positions at £l' a day, or thereabouts, as
well as the knuts and flappers who pervade
Melbourne and contrive to have such a
glorious time. The Government has an Un-
employment Insurance Bill on the stocks. It
has been suggested that a temporary stamp-
duty on wages, “varying from Id. on £2 to
Is. on £24 per week, should be imposed, but
this is frowned on by the majority of Labor
members.
When a “statesman” has neither a party
nor a policy and has become so impatient
for a voice in things that he would make a
political speech to a Sunday-school picnic,
he tends to be a bore. Billy Hughes
turned up in Sydney the other day at the
annual meeting of the Justices’ Association,
and said that “prosperity depended on enter-
prise, and there was no enterprise without
hope. Unless Australia believed things
would be well they wouldn’t be well.”
But he didn’t say that he had put any
of his own money into any _ enterprise
to encourage hope. In all his speeches
William hasn’t outlined his idea for dealing
with the excess of imports, the lack of pro-
duction, the impossibility, under the condi-
tions thus created, of doing without loans,
and the present impossibility of getting the
loans. He hasn’t even propounded his idea of
what should be done with the coal stoppage,
though he has mentioned in various speeches
that it was an important matter which, he
didn’t proposed to deal with that evening.
Hughes’s view is that if he stands by the
bedside and smiles like the very devil it will
make the patient recover.
A KNOTTY QUESTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Federal Minister Fenton agrees with Vic. Premier
Hogan that there is much overlapping in London
and that State Agents-General are superfluous.”
No need to fret, you estimable fellows
Who get what limelight Granville R. can
spare;
The jobs you hold may vanish, like Othello's,
But. not, assuredly, while you are there.
No apprehensiveness you need be under,
But when eventually falls She axe,
What new provision shall we make, I wonder,
For half a dozen faithful party hacks?
Here was a soft, congenial post awaiting
Him who had weathered faction’s storm
and stress,
Had sat and sweated under many a slating,
Known days of toil and nights of bitter-
ness.
Here weary Titans, bowed with fardels
weighty
And scarred in scores of battles, might
relax
And take their otiurn cum dignitate,
The proper due of worn-out party hacks.
A placid haven in new scenes and sectors
Was here, a cushy billet overseas,
Where was no need for smoodging to electors
Or trimming sails to ev’ry passing breeze;
No call for acrimonious logic-chopping,
Or any utterance your brain to tax
Save well-turned platitudes where corks are
popping—
How heavenly a bourne for party hacks!
Here was a final and a fitting guerdon
Wherewith a grateful country might invest
Him who had borne the noonday heat and
burden
And merited remunerative rest.
Must it be undermined by cutting phrases,
Crumble before iconoclasts’ attacks?
And, when it does, well—how the blithering
blazes
Shall we reward our faithful party hacks?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


THE MARINE COURT.
SHADOW SHOWS.
The
STATE
THEATRES
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
In that poor but blameless room
Where her weeping parents live,
They drink the champagne wine she sends,
But never, never can forgive.
■— Mid-Victorian Ballad.
The Opening of the Roxy.
The rich daughter of the impoverished
Thespis family took over the old home in
Castlereagh-street, Sydney, on Friday night.
As Fullers’ it was one of those- dingy,
uncomfortable places which were considered
good enough to b,e homes of vaudeville;
now it is the Roxy, and as luxurious, pro-
bably, considering the moderate prices
charged, as any theatre in the Empire.
“The Hollywood Revue.”
All this fuss over the usurping hussy
of the entertainment world —the redecorating
of the theatre for her reception, the im-
proved service, the padded tip-up seats, the
requisition of a Governor to give dignity to
the occasion—must be additionally embitter-
ing to the lady’s victims, seeing that she
is so like them in the essentials. “The
Hollywood Revue” (Metro-Goldwyn) is the
same show under its skin that vaudeville
enthusiasts have been enjoying at Fuller’s
for the past 25 years. There are the same
oleaginous mother songs; the same comic
jugglers, one of whom, with well-meaning
imbecility, gives away the tricks of his
mortified colleague; the same patter
comedians; the same soubrettes, and the
same ballets.
It is all as familiar as the National
Anthem, but how magically different! In-
stead of the shabby little orchestra of a
dozen or so, the shadows of 30 faultlessly-
attired artists pour an immense volume of
music over the place where the footlights
used to be; and in place of the prancings of
a few poorly-dressed and often gawky
chorines, scores of lavishly underclothed
young women, who are no doubt the pick
of their profession, kick, leap, march and
counter-march with the precision of Guards-
men. Presumably they are beautiful as
well as efficient, but that we may never
know from personal investigation. One or
two close-ups are given of swaying forests
of unimpeachable legs, but owing to focussing
difficulties the owners’ faces are blurs. It
is unlikely that jokes about bald-headed
stallites will ever be heard again. These
grey or sepia-colored girls, now Brobding-
nags, now Lilliputians, are as unprovocative
as statues.
The chief charm of the departed vaudeville
show was its intimacy. Audiences used to
yawn, through many poor, not to say rotten,
turns for the delight of encoring a favorite,
or joining in his songs. Film vaudeville is
inhumanly detached. The show plugs on
as impersonally as time. However, it has
many compensations. There are no bad
turns in “The Hollywood Revue.” Every
principal is a star. And it is a shining
example of America’s genius for catering for
world-tastes in theatrical matters. The
U.S.A. showman, with a polyglot home-
public of Germans, Swedes, Poles, Lithu-
anians, Italians and many more, had to
acquire a cosmopolitan outlook, or perish.
The result may be seen in this revue, which,
though it is spoken exclusively in the
American language, and though its allusions
are all American, was evidently more com-
prehensible to Friday night’s audience than
the kind of imported London entertainment
which features jokes about the “Daily Mail”
and Epstein’s art.
“The Necker,” and Some Others.
Conrad Nagel introduces the performers in
the first part. There is a Rotarian famili-
arity about his relations with them. When
our soulful old friend Charles (Char-lee)
King has moaned “Your Mother and Mine,”
he commiserates with Karnrud for his inabil-
ity to charm the girls on similar lines. Holly-
wood’s loveliest male immediately sits down
at the piarno, and warbles “You Were
Meant for Me” into the adoring countenance
of Anita Page in a voice which is no less
luscious than Charlee’s. His own yoice?
Probably not. The capacity of the talkies
to perform miracles, such as putting the
voice of a Melba into the mouth of a Greta
Garbo, is one of the many unfair advantages
they have over the legitimate stage. Bessie
Love- executes a remarkable come-back. Five
years ago Australia' knew her as a frail,
lugubrious creature who specialised in being
ruined and cast off by indignant relations.
Now she is a brisk little purveyor of song-
and-dance comedy whose turns are amongst
the most amusing on a bill which is strong
in humor.
An endearing characteristic of American
mummers is their capacity to laugh at them-
selves and their national failings. No others
do it with such gusto. Rdughly, about a
third of this show consists in gibes at the
leading characters, and at the low-brow pro-
clivities of the inhabitants of Gard’s own
country. John Gilbert and Norma Shearer
do part of the Balcony Scene as Shakspeare
wrote it,' and follow with a scene called
“The Necker” in the racier tongue of New
York. And Nagel, heedless of the beauty
which, according to. his publicity experts,
makes his “fan mail” the largest in the
world’s history, submits to the attentions of
a pie-thrower, and addresses his worshippers
afterwards through an absurd mask of pro-
perty custard.
The ballets provide the only dull spots in
a wonderful evening’s entertainment. Some
of the effects are charming, decoratively
speaking; particularly one in which the
photographer Has taken his stand in a valley
and shot a number of figures moving in sil-
houette against the lighted background of
a hill. But the dancers are without the
breath of life. They are one-dimensional
robots, and after a time their uncannily co-
ordinated movements grow very wearisome.
A kind word should be said for the acous-
tics of the Roxy. There can be few
theatres in Sydney to equal it in this respect.
The big show is preceded at this theatre
by a slapstick comedy featuring Sam Hardy
—one who looks like developing into the
Charles Chaplin of Talkiedom. Hardy is a
fat man with small futile features and a
gift for expressing the ridiculous emotions.
His leading lines are a dog-like eagerness to
please, fatuous complacence at the thought
that all is well, and frenzy at the discovery
that Fate has involved him in fresh trouble.
Old stuff, of course, but it is the technique
that counts. Close-ups enable the smallest
nuances of feeling to be registered on the
screen, yet situations and personality still
mean more than skilled acting in film comics,
which may explain why conventional Eng-
land has produced few home-trained screen
comedians, and the U.S.A., the home of
eccentrics, many. Hardy has the patience
in defeat, the optimism and the devilish
enterprise that makes some small boys so
interesting. He is appearing at the Roxy in
a play called “The Hoosegow” (Anglice
“Gaol”), but the medium through which
he works is immaterial, as his methods, like
Chaplin’s, never differ.
“Paris.”
“Paris,” the Fox film which arrived at
the St. James on Saturday, is a poor story
superbly produced.
Cora Sabbat, mother of Andrew, who is
going to Paris with his horn-rimmed spec-
tacles to study art, is shown presiding over
a Purity League meeting. Then Paris, with
views of the Eiffel Tower, Place de la Con-
corde, and Arc de Triomphe.to prove it. In-
cidentally, these scenes represent all the
Parisian atmosphere that is supplied for the
money. The ensuing Folies Parisiennes
scenes seem to have been shot at Hollywood
—a conclusion which is arrived at because
the audiences look so Parisian; in Paris
three-fourths of the stalls at shows of this
sort are occupied by Americans nowadays.
Soon after reaching Paris Andrew substi-
tutes an immoral French eyeglass for his
decent American spectacles, and falls in love
with Vivienne Rolland, of the Folies.
Vivienne reciprocates, though why she should
love this stout, flat-faced lad with the fog-
horn voice and glum manner does not appear.
The only explanation offered is that she
yearns to come in contact with someone like
Whistler’s brother, and imagines Andrew’s
mother will fill the bill. Guy Pennell, her
English dancing partner, wants to marry
her, but whether for love or to clinch the
contract which he carries about with him
the audience is not allowed to know.
Andrew’s mother arrives unexpectedly at
this stage, with modest, dowdy Brenda Kaley,
who has learned to worship the boy in their
home town.
Louise Glosser Hale plays the mother on
broad lines. It is not an altogether pleasant
job. Mrs. Sabbat, on arrival, is a grim-faced
wearer of golfing shoes, woollen stockings
and ancient bats. A typical small-town Puri-
tan. She has had a bad trip, and her stomach
is out of order. She performs the usual
movements prescribed by farcical tradition
for elderly ladies with disordered insides —
clutchings at the diaphragm, contortions of
the face suggesting that the sufferer is about
to vomit, fainting fits, and so on. When she
collapses in Guy’s arms on a sofa, he per-
forms the customary' movements required of
a waggish young leading man on whom a
stout, elderly woman has deposited herself.
Practically the only gesture omitted is that
of throwing a sofa-cushion at someone’s head
afterwards.
Now comes the cream of the joke. He in-
duces her to swallow the best part of a bottle
of brandy. She stands up to it well, con-
sidering her boast of a few minutes earlier
(“Liquor has never passed my lips”), but
eventually goes under, and provides a con-
ventional study of a teetotal matron in drink.
Iler swift corruption follows. She casts
aside her Purity League clothes and buys
new ones in the -Rue de la Paix, stays out
all night with Guy, and wins 30,000 francs.
She also jazzes drunkenly in and out_ of
rooms, slaps people in an inebriated fashion,
and leers amorously at Guy while he is
acting. Finally, she maddens Andrew and
Vivienne by announcing her engagement to
him.
She is feigning folly to save the loved one
—a .venerable theme. There was a similar
situation in “David Garrick.” But the mid-
Victorian play was dramatically effective,
since the audience knew all along that
David was simulating drunkenness because
he would rather break his heart than his
word. In “Paris” no hint is given of what
the old lady really is up to till the end, and
even then there are doubts about her senti-
ments as she looks gloomily on at the belated
coming-together of Guy and Vivienne.
Jack Buchanan plays Guy. His clear
voice and perfect articulation are delightful
after the adenoidal croakings of so many of
the U.S.A. beauty men, but he got few laughs
on Saturday night. Can it be that London
musical comedy humor is already beginning
to “date”? Irene Bordoni plays herself with
supreme art.. It is significant of the pro-
blem with which the talkies are confronting
the legitimate drama that in this small cast
there are a London "and a Parisian idol, in
addition to some highly competent Americans.
The Technicolor Process.
The most impressive features of the show
are the beautiful effects achieved by the
technicolor process. The lavish Folies scenes
are all in color. Most of the ballets in “The
Hollywood Revue” have deep backgrounds.
In “Paris” the backgrounds consist of futur-
istic walls against which the showgirls dis-
play themselves on steep staircases. This
device enables glorious masses of color to be
concentrated, and yet keeps the moving figures
more or less in focus. The future of the
talkies must depend largely on the capacity
-of science to evolve convincing (jolor-pictures.
Human nature abhors a color-vacuum, and
that picture showmen are aware of it is
proved by the garish lines on which they
were beginning to decorate their theatres for
the drab silent films.


K 2
&
44
g
w
m
V
t
3
m
Y,
9+
Buick performance
unfailingly demonstrates
its trustworthiness
♦ $ O 0 0
That Buick for 1930 has maintained
this traditional characteristic is but one
reason why it has received the most
enthusiastic reception ever accorded any new
Buick. Trustworthiness has been a synonym
for Buick for over a quarter of a century.
Trustworthy performance, however
vital as it is! would not alone afccount
for Buick’s unparalleled increase in popular-
ity. To gain, and retain, the confidence
of the public, a car must both act and
look the part.
Therein lies the new Buick’s success!
In good looks it is superior to anything
that has gone before . . . new body lines
. . . longer, lower, redolent of grace and
fleetness.
In performance it offers a new order of
power, get-away and stamina . . . new
balance of road-holding qualities . . a
matchless riding ease.
In mechanical perfection it takes front
rank, providing facilities for your comfort
and safety that are not combined in any
other car.
Buick for 1930 sets an entirely new
standard of style, performance and value,
and the net result is that Buick is
scoring the greatest success in fine car history.
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR.
Convenient -payments can be arranged on the liberal G.M.A.C. Terms Plan
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER,
c Metropolitan Distributors :
METROPOLITAN MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
BOYD EDKINS, LTD.,
109 Phillip Street, Sydney.
PRESTON MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
114 Franklin Street, Melbourne.
CITY MOTORS, LTD.,
95 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
OLDFIELD MOTORS,
Munster House, Murray Street, Perth.
GENERAL TVTOTORS (Australia) Pty. Ltd., Brisbane , Sydney, AftCelbourne, Adelaide, Perth»
BUICKI93O
It’s a General Motors Car -
look inside and note the difference


Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner a
la carte from 1/6. Inclusive tariff from 18/6
per day, or £4/4/- weekly. Special quotations for
sporting bodies, etc. Situated right opposite Spencer
Street Station; no taxi fares; railway porter carries
baggage across if necessary. Please write for
detailed tariff card. Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is
sufficient address.
w
WATER FILTRATION
For manufacturing purposes clear water is
essential. The “SWIRL” FILTER gives
a large output and is specially suitable for
Ice Works, Butter Factories, Laundries, etc.
Also Sole Manufacturers of the well-known
“Abbot” Germ-proof Filters, pressure or
crockery, for household use, Uordial
Factories, etc.
Catalogues on Application.
Guthridge Limited
Sole Manufacturers
10-12 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY
Ask the Man
Who’s Been There
and he will tell you that the best
holiday he ever had” was at
Mt Buffalo
National Park
Book now for the snow-sports
season.
Particulars at
Government Tourist Bureaux,
Queen’s Walk, Melbourne, or
Martin Place, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
George Spotswood, who recently called it
a day at 90. was reputedly the first boy to
be born in Williamstown, Melbourne’s origi-
nal “fishing village.” Spotswood’s father
bought the schooner in which John Pascoe
Fawkner endeavored to jump Batman’s claim
to Yarratown. He built up a trade to Warr-
nambool with it. The widow of Dick Sed-
don is a daughter.
Ex-Justice Chubb (Q.), who died last
week at 85, must have put up more than
one long-distance record. He sat for 33
Archbishop MANNIX had a birthday
yesterday. He was 66
years on the Supreme Court bench and he
was 77 when he retired eight years ago.
Chubb arrived from England young and
climbed to judicial office by the Parliamen-
tary ladder. He became M.L.A. for Bowen
in the ’eighties and was Attorney-General in
the Mcllwraith Ministry. He was admitted
as a solicitor as long ago as ’67 and called
to the Bar 11 years later.
The late John Jardine, of Curry 1 lat
station, Nimmitabel (N.S.W.), was one of
the Monaro’s best-known identities. His dad,
William Jardine, first settled in the district
in 1860. John Jardine was a successful
sheep- and cattle-breeder, and for years presi-
dent of the Monaro Shire Council. He was 68
when the end came.
“Moresby”: The most floridly eloquent
J. R. DARLING, the
new headmaster of
Geelong (Vic.)
Grammar School.
politician I ever
heard on an Aus-
tralian platform
was a certain
Rowland Rees,
and that was 32
years ago. He
had sat in the S.
Aus. Assembly,
risen to be a
Minister for a
few weeks, lost
his portfolio and
his seat, and
came to W est-
ralia to try and
stage a come-
back. Nobody
took him very
seriously, hut
when he got
fairly going his
flow of language,
li i s beautifully-
balanced sen-
tences, his com-
mand of apt illus-
trations and his
dramatic deli-
very would fasci-
nate ' any audi-
ence, even if it
consisted of hard-
headed cockics. It
wasn’t until you
had got away
from the glamor
of it that you
realised he never
had much to say,
barring obvious
generalities and
b e a u t i fully-
dressed plati-
tudes. Rees never came back; his rhetorical
type is utterly extinct nowadays.
“Uramao”: J. C- Watson, ex-Prime Min-
ister, lias been revisiting the home of his
boyhood, Oamaru (M.L.). He looked in at
the local newspaper office where “Watson”
is scrawled on the old frame where he
snatched type half a century ago. One
ancient who set type beside him was there
to give him the hand of welcome. His old
boss (James Mitchell, the doyen of M.L.
journalists) died a few hours before Wat-
son’s arrival at Oamaru; the apprentice
of 50 years back was one of the pall-bearers
at the funeral.
George Lansbury, the British Labor Min-
ister, spent a few months in Australia when
he was a young man of 25, and is understood
to have turned his hand to any odd jobs that
offered, much as Billy Hughes did a few’
years later. At the farewell luncheon in
London to the Australia League footballers
Lansbury mentioned that in Brisbane he had
earned eight shillings a day “helping to level
the field on which England and Australia
were later to compete at cricket.” That was
in ’B4.
George Wise, of Sale, wdio was M.H.R. for
Gippsland in five Parliaments and Post-
master-General under Hughes, will attend
the A.N.A. conference at Echuca on March
18. At 77 he still takes a keen interest in
the body of which he has been a director
for over 40 years. Wise has dominated more
than one conference in his time ; perhaps his
greatest achievement was at Bairnsdale in
1904, vdien he saved the directors from being
censured for not raising a shindy over the
employment of Chinese labor in the South
African mines “after Australian soldiers had
dyed the veldt with their blood.” H’is point,
which he urged successfully, was that it was
outside the functions of the A.N.A. to inter-
fere in matters that did not touch Australia.
Sam G. Pirani, lawyer, music-lover, philan-
thropist and clubman —he was a foundation
member of the Yorick —claimed his tiny lot
in Brighton cemetery last week. For nearly
50 of his 76 years he was a prominent figure
in Melbourne legal circles, company law
being his strong suit. His partner, Braham,
specialised in bankruptcy law. Prof. Max
Pirani, of the Royal Academy of Music,
London, is a son. '
“Coaldust” : The John Brown dynasty (B.
19/2/’3O) have had financial troubles in
their time. Talking with an old-timer of
the Miners’ Federation I learned about some
of their early-day struggles. On one occasion
the men had to wait from Friday until
Wednesday for their pay. Upon assembling
at the colliery office. James Brown (John’s
father) announced: “I’m sorry to say, men,
there’s no money to-day. But if you go on
working I can arrange matters with the
bank.” Production proceeded, and on the
following Wednesday the deferred dockets
were redeemed. To listen to most of the
talk on the coalfields to-day one would get
the impression that “Old John’s” family have
been wallowing in wealth for generations.
Emma Sutton, who celebrated a birth-
day recently, is one of the oldest surviving
natives of Batman’s village. She was born in
a lane off Collins-street in 1840, her parents
removing to Williamstown w'hen corroborees
were a substitute for the talkies in that
fishing hamlet. Her father was a pilot, and a
nephew is present secretary of the Williams-
town Racing Club, as a brother of Miss
Sutton’s was before him.
Maoriland’s new Gov.-Gen., Lord Blcdisloe,
brings with him as military secretary his
younger brother, Major Arthur Bathurst, of
the Royal Berkshire Regiment. The Major
saw service in the Boer War with the
mounted infantry. He had from the
army a few months before the Kaiser ran
amok in 1914, but rejoined and collected a
wound in France and a mention in
dispatches. He is a great traveller and a
keen sportsman: M.L. is one of the few
countries he has never visited.
Five of Victoria’s six Anglican bishops,
including the- Arch., are off to the Lambeth
Conference. The solitary episcopal figure
left is in the diocese of St. Arnaud.
Hugh Brown, of Mordialloc (Vic.), was
only a month short of his century when he
passed out last week. He had seen Mor-
dialloc grow from a seaside village to a city
and his own property become steadily more
valuable in the process. Five sons survive
him.
Thousands of A.N.A. members are mourn-
ing Tommy Crosbie, a member of the direc-
torate for 30 years and chief president for
a term. A prominent figure at annual con-
ferences, he ranked as one of Vic.’s most
reliable authorities on friendly societies law.
For many years he was sec. to the N. Mel-
bourne branch of the association.
The old-time British “remittance man”
grows rarer in Australian cities, but “Wild
Bill” Kelley, who died in a Sydney hospital
last week as the result of a motor accident,
w T as credited with being an American variant
of the type. It was understood that his
family supplied him with ample funds on
condition that he dissipated them at a dis-
tance, and this had given him a considerable
vogue in Darlinghurst, where he had located
himself. Latterly he had quietened down
a bit, his allowance being paid to him
through a well-known cleric, who had
authority to withhold it in certain contin-
gencies. Kelley is reputed to have been a
daring flying-man with the American forces
during the war.
Sir Edward
Grigg, the large,
grave, bald official
wli o entertained
the Prince of
Wales in Kenya
last week, has
held a greater
variety of big
jobs than an.\
other man in
the Empire,
though he has
no profession and
was without previ-
ous experience of
each new collar
that came his way.
He joined the
“Times” before he
had worked in a
newspaper office;
he joined the
army (and became
a Guards G. 5.0.1.)
without any previ-
ous knowledge of,
soldiering; he was
made private secre-
ta r y to Lloyd
George without
having spoken in
Parliament, an d
military secretary
to the Prince with-
out having' been a
courtier. He went
to Kenya as Gov-
ernor without hav-
JAMES KITTO.
Deputy P.M.G. of
N. S. Wales, who had
a wedding last week.
ing so much as served an apprentice-
ship as an A.D.C. He is a sort of heredi-
tary official, his mother having been a
Deas-Thomson, of Sydney, and his father an
Indian civil servant. Incidentally, he wrote
for the “Times” a eulogy of The Bulletin
so vivid that it is partly responsible for
the blushes upon the cover.
George V.’s double in Vic. is G. C. Morri-
son, formerly Public Service Commissioner
and before that a police magistrate. Morri-
son, whose recreation is golf, is seven years
older than the King.
Passed out at 68, kindly Horace C. Hal-
loran, contributor of a good deal of prose
and verse in The Bulletin in the old days.
Halloran entered the electoral branch of the
N.S.W. Public Service 38 years ago.
G. S. McPherson’s seven-year term as Vic.
Public Service Commissioner is nearly up,
but it is almost certain that he will be re-
appointed for a year. He will be 65 in
January next, and the extra year will enable
him to set going the Classification and Effi-
ciency Act —if it is passed.
If the bootlegger gets an innings in Vic-
toria he won’t have J. J. Liston to thank
for it. That irrepressible person was
appointed organiser of the anti-prohibition
campaign, and he lias put all his extraordi-
J. J. LISTON.
iiar? vigor into it. There isn’t always a
State-wide fight for Liston to join in; when
things are quiet he keeps his hand in at
Williamstown, where lie has had a sort of
perpetual job as Mayor.
John Burns, the veteran English Labor
leader with whom F'ed. Minister Fenton has
been fraternising in London, belongs to an
older and perhaps fuller-flavored vintage than
any of Ramsay Mac’s Cabinet. John, who
was afterwards to represent Battersea in the
House of Commons for 26 years, was the
best-known spokesman of the working man
in his day, which began with the dock strikes
and other industrial troubles of the
’eighties. But many of his stoutest
adherents turned from him when he
accepted office in a Liberal Government, a
previous dictum of his that no man- was
worth more than £5OO a year being often
quoted against him. Later, Burns sacri-
ficed his job to liis pacifist principles, much
as John Bright might have done; he was
one of the three Ministers who resigned when
war was declared in 1914. At 71 he spends
most of his time in a library of 12,000 books.
The death at 87 of Rabbi Van Stavern,
a watcher from the Tower of Israel
over Wellington (M.L.) for 52 years,
was followed with tragical suddenness by
that of his successor, Rabbi Pitkowsky,
aged 53. Pitkowsky was born in Kovno,
Russia, and educated in Palestine, where
he married. Five children were born to him
in the Holy Land and two in M.L. He had
been assistant to Van Stavern, and died a
fortnight after his predecessor.
Lord Somers, who has 16 months to run
as Vic.’s Viceroy, has been mentioned as the
next Governor-General. There is precedent
for such promotion; Hopetoun and Tenny-
son began as State Governors. Somers is
"responsible for at least two vigorous move-
ments in Victoria. He started the camp
of factory and grammar-school boys which
has become an annual fixture, and his
experience as a firefighter in a couple of
bush outbreaks in the Dandenongs con-
vinced him that a properly organised brigade
directed from Melbourne was the only solu-
tion. His help was invaluable to the ex-
A.I.F. officers who founded an organisation
which this year, by means of aeroplanes and
motor transport, cut the claws of the fire
devil on several occasions.
A hardy Scot is the Rev. William Ander-
son who has put in 30 years’ mission work
in the New Hebrides with occasional explor-
ing trips into the interior by way of a side-
line. He carries on still on Santo Island,
largest of the group, where the inland natives
are a bloodthirsty lot, but, fortunately,
execrable shots with the rifle. Numbers of
them are repulsive sights through elephan-
tiasis and a loathsome skin disease; there
are cases of leprosy, too.
COBBERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The war had its compensations; one was the
mateship it inspired. There are men I knew over
there I’d always be glad to meet again although
I have not seen them for years and don’t know
where they are now.”
At times the war was pretty crook,
With rations short and shells galore,
An’ wallowing in slush and mud
Where ships could better fight a war
Or slithering about on snow
With sergeants always on the roar;
Still —there was Joe.
I can’t recall his other name.
We mated up one day, and stuck;
We shared our dug-outs and our “nap”
And each helped out the other’s luck
A thousand ways I got to know,
However crook the spin I struck,
There’d still be Joe.
We’ve shared a wet fag, draw by draw;
Stuck side by side when Hell -was freed;
And Joe could always lie like Hell
To help a pal in time of need
When army “crimes” got in a blow —-
A friend who was a friend indeed
Was my mate Joe!
However bad things were he’d grin;
You’d seldom find him serious.
He couldn’t talk about it much
„ Q'r make a- sentimental fuss,
But it was heartening to know ,
A sticker for the firm of Us
Was good old Joe.
I haven’t seen him since the war,
And can’t recall his other name.
Perhaps our ways are miles apart—
I’d like to meet him, just the same,
The mateship in my heart aglow
That flourished, born in days of flame,
For my mate Joe!
N.S.W.
SPARE CORP.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Unity”: The Tasmanians who awoke to
find themselves minus their clothing (B.
27/2/’3O) would have sympathised with the
N.S.W. family who not long ago booked in
at a leading Auckland hotel, having arrived
from Sydney by the Aorangi to spend a
holiday in Maoriland. After one night they
decided to change their hotel, and entrusted
their trunks and loose gear, including golf-
clubs and cameras, to a carter. By some
means the honest fellow got mixed up, but
deciphering the name “Aorangi” on the lug-
gage hustled it down to the mail-steamer,
then on the point of continuing her voyage
NOTHING’S FAIR.
NURSE: “Look at the little baby brother who came in the night!”
TOMMY: “Gee, ain’t some kids born lucky! I’m four and not allowed out at night yet!”
to Vancouver. When the family, domi-
ciled in their new abode, began to make
inquiries about their apparel, they were met
with the bleak information that it was well
on the way across the Pacific and that,
with luck, they might get it back in seven
weeks.
*,* * *
“Fido”: The civil rights and responsibili-
ties of dogs have been adjudicated upon with
great seriousness by a Wellington (M.L.)
magistrate. An Australian terrier was slain
in combat with a collie, and his owner
claimed damages. Evidence showed that the
smaller dog was the aggressor, and that
after he had been hauled from the
fray he recommenced hostilities. The S.M.
laid it down “that if the injuries a dog does
are the result of provocation or are done in
self-defence, or if they are done in a fight
voluntarily entered upon by two dogs, dam-
ages cannot be recovered.”
* * * *
“Sixenate”: That innocently-humorous
touch crept into a suburban police-court case
the other day. A man and his lady friend
were charged with having fought in the
street. The woman had done most of the
fighting, and the other party reluctantly
admitted that she had attacked him with a
bottle, inflicting scalp wounds, damages to
the nose and an arm fracture, besides minor
hurts. “But why did she do all this?” the
magistrate asked. “Y’ Honor,” was the
solemn reply, “I reckon she must have been
cross with me about somethin’.”
* * * *
“Tuart”: You can’t keep population
secrets from Wickens, the statistician; he
demands to know all. In his summary for
1928 the ruthless collector of facts reports
1412 cases of twins, all the States and the
F.C.T. contributing, and 11 of triplets—six
in N. S. Wales, three in Queensland, and
one each in Yic. and S. Aus. The oldest
begetter of twins was a South Australian,
aged 67, married to a lady of 33; the young-
est was a Ma Stater of 18, the missus being
39. The oldest mother of twins also collected
the bonus in N. S. Wales ; she was 47 and
her husband 50. The parents of triplets were
mostly of mature years. In one Queensland
case the father was 44 and the mother 39:
in another, dad was 59 and muto 39. In
the list of single births the ages of the fathers
ranged from 16 to 89, and of the mothers
from 13 to 55. One 55-year-old matron was
a Victorian, her lord being 34. N. S. Wales
claimed the pa who was 89 and his mate
aged 32.
* •!* * *■
“Herodot”: When a man is hanged in
Adelaide he gets one last glimpse of the
world outside while standing on the trap
tvaiting for the white cap to be adjusted.
A little to one side of the scaffold there is
a small barred window, through which there
can be seen a vista of some of the houses
beyond. Those whose duty compels them to
witness S. Aus. executions are always fasci-
nated by the‘manner in which the eyes of
the condemned man are flashed on this aper-
ture the moment he emerges from the small
door leading on to the scaffold from the con-
demned cell. When Carr was about to be
hanged he paused for a short moment before
the window and looked longingly out through
it before stepping under the beam. Blyth
passed it unconcernedly, but as soon as he
was on the trap his eyes flew to the opening
and never left it until the white cap was
pressed down over them.
* * * Hs
“Sukampin” : I was in Japan during the
visit of the Prince of Wales in 1922. While
at Kyoto 11.R.H. brought a “shirushi-
banten,” a Japanese coolie’s Working cos-
tume, consisting of blue cloth gaiters ’and
sandals, blue skin-tight trousers and tabard-
like blue coat—the coat is generally de-
corated on the collar with the name and
address of the firm employing the man and
with a big crest or house-sign (“ya-jirushi”)
on the back. Probably the outfit was in-
tended for use at some fancy-dress ball in
London. The Japanese vernacular press,
however, gravely announced that the Prince
“proposed to wear it at the next dance at
Buckingham Palace.” Then it was recalled
that Edward P. had allowed himself to be
photographed pulling Admiral H'alsey along
in a rickshaw; had handed his net to his
personal detective at the royal duck-hunt,
saying “Have a dart at a jolly old bird
yourself.” and had done other things that
a Japanese royalty would never dream of
doing ; and official Japan trembled. Possibly
the Japanese manufacturer got the idea that
foreign trade in odds and ends of Oriental
dress might receive a fillip from the Prince’s
ball-dress. If so, the results have been
startling. For example, I recently saw a
CONFIDENCES.
“My husband is very tender-hearted. If he thinks he has been unfair to anyone he
worries about it for days.”
“Yes, mine’s spent sleepless nights, too. when he’s refused me anything.”
fashionably dressed Melbourne woman in a
Japanese fireman’s coat. She was using it
as an opera-wrap.
is * =s *
“T.T.T.”: Aunt Agatha’s spinster niece,
who was due to stay with her relative, sent
a last-minute wire from Melbourne: “Catch-
ing next ship. Gave berth to sick child.”
Auntie’s reply was terse: “Landlord won’t
have children in the house.”
* *
“C. Coral”: The undertaker in a North
Queensland seaport town got into financial
difficulties and had to mortgage his hearse,
a one-horse box mounted on four wheels.
His creditor wanted to be quite sure of
his security, and so the population awoke
one morning to find the vehicle securely
padlocked to a big tree just outside the
undertaker’s premises in the main street.
It was not until a patron who wanted the use
of the hearse for a friend came along and
paid up that it was released from pawn.
That hearse is still doing duty. Its owner
solemnly removes and replaces the back door
by the nail-and-clawhammer process which
has obtained for 20 years. A new hinge
could be quickly fitted; but the North is
conservative and has plenty of time, and
friends of the deceased have come to regard
the nail-and-hammer operation as part of
the funeral ritual.
❖ i|J ❖ Sfc
“Tuart”: Inoculation against typhoid
may “offer immunity,” as “W.1.U.” says, but
only for a time. A Digger living in a Syd-
ney outer suburb developed typhoid eight
years after inoculation. The whole remark-
able story is told in a departmental report.
About Christmas, 1921, a daughter of a
Mrs. Z. died of typhoid. Just on two years
later another daughter, a grandson, Mrs. Z.
and a son contracted the disease. In 1926
a third daughter was attacked. In Decem-
ber, 1927, two more sons were smitten —
there were five in the family and four had
been inoculated during the war. In the long
run, after repeated examinations had proved
negative, it was established that Mrs. Z.
was an intermittent typhoid carrier. Since
then precautions have been taken and no fur-
ther cases have been associated with the lady.
si ■. * * *
“Sukampin”: Concerning “maru,” there
are bits of truth in the explanations of
both “Morimoto” and “Te Babarantiko” (B.
19/2/’3O). But neither explains why
“maru” is used with names of ships
(excluding warships, which are “kan”).
Prof. Chamberlain points out in his “Things
Japanese” that “in former times ships had
not the monopoly of the name,” and sug-
gests that “maru” and “maro,” an archaic
term of endearment (e.g., Tamura-maro, a
revered general), have flowed into one and
so got confused, “o” and “u” being particu-
larly apt to interchange in Japanese. With
the decline of the old civilisation the word
“maru” now is used wholly with ships, the
dearest things to a sea-loving island people.
jjj *!-
“Alfred O’Toole”: Carrying her collection-
box and tambourine she paced into our swish-
est ragshop and asked for a donation. It
was fearfully hot, and the draper was in a
bad temper. “Not a penny,” he replied.
“Get out of me shop.” The lassie,, who was
anything but meek, told him what she
thought of him. “Out of my shop!” Rags
thundered; “if my dear brother were alive
he’d put you out.” “The better man of you
two must be dead then,” said the lady sourly.
* * * *
“Ex-Loco”: Double-headed trains (B.
12/2/’3O) were faulty mechanically until
recent years, but in Victoria the installation
of more powerful Westinghouse-brakc air-
pumps has largely reduced their terrors for
enginemen. If the leading engine—the one
responsible for keeping up the air pressure—
in the Blue Mountains smash was not fitted
with a modern air-pump, somebody ought to
be asked about it. It is reduction of air-
pressure in the train-pipe that operates the
brakes. The Beaufort (Vic.) accident of 22
years ago was caused as “Murkah” states.
I was on a double-header —leading engine—a
short time before that smash and went right
through the Beaufort station yard before I
could stop. Fortunately I had the main line,
and all was clear. That state of affairs could
hardly occur, in Victoria at least, these days.
All the same, I think the margin of safety with
double-headers is narrow enough even now.
“Lochiel”: “Murkah’s” contention that
double-headed trains are often too heavy for
the engines’ braking-power is hard to under-
stand. Immediately a driver allows air in
the train pipe to escape, the high-pressure
air in each brake cylinder applies the brakes.
Every individual vehicle in the train having
sufficient brake-power to hold itself, it does
not matter a tinker’s curse if the train is
a mile in length. It is impossible for either
driver to prevent the release of train pipe
pressure by the other. Equally impossible
is it to increase the brake-power. If the
brake-cylinder pressure is increased beyond
its present value the wheels would simply
lock and skid, resulting in an increased
stopping distance and in the formation of
flats burnt on all the wheels. The only
danger with a long train is when the air-
pump fails and the handbrake in the brake-
van has to be relied upon to counteract the
momentum of several hundreds of tons.
TO A BARD OF THE TOMB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Come, sing me a song of a little pork-pie,
And sing it out loud ! Lord! it don’t matter
why!
You can look down your long puritanical
nose,
And intone—“My dear fellow, how do you
suppose”
For I don’t give a darn for your dirges,
not I.
I’m too happy this morning to even care
why!
The sea has gold shadows; the sky is so
blue
That the splendor spills over and pearls us
like dew.
What sad little, mad little creatures we be
In the sight of the gods of the earth and the
sea,
You wan with your sobs and your sorrows
to write,
And I who am drunk with sheer pagan
delight!
Come, leap in the sunlight, and dance if you
can
The dance of the satyrs beloved of. Pan.
Morn’s lips are a wanton’s! Ah! surely,
the tomb
And the glamor of grief and the dolor of
doom
Can stand being shelved for an hour to
behold
Upflooding, outpouring, such roses, such gold!
So sing me a song of a stale loaf of bread,
But mind not to start it with “When I
am dead.”
Have done with your fugues full of phan-
toms and fears,
For I don’t care a darn for your property
tears
And your dirges of death that affront the
glad sky,
For I am happy—so happy—l don’t want
to die!
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


“Pop. Servo”: It is not easy to get home
on the financial watchdogs of the N.S.W.
Public Service, but it is sometimes done.
Penn, who toils in a small Sydney sub-
department, was sent one morning to Parra-
matta. He returned to the office about three
o'clock, and weighed in with the usual claim
for lunch money, 3s. The accounts officer,
discovering that Penn could have reached
headquarters by 2 p.m. and then fed at his
own expense, minuted the papers (there are
always papers in these cases). “Mr. Penn
might perhaps explain why luncheon was
taken at Parramatta.” The reply was : “Be-
cause Mr. Penn was hungry.” Pensille, of
the Spike and File Department, was equally
laconic when his purchase of a cheap time-
piece was challenged. The Audit Office
query was “Please explain why it was neces-
sary to purchase a clock.” Pensille wrote
(in red ink) “To tell the time.”
Of sic # *
“Alliance”: This cablegram, or something
like it, appeared in most of the Australian
dailies: —
When the Koyal party visited the British Indus-
tries Fair at Olympia, the Queen’s attention was
directed to a butter model of Melba the Fifteenth,
the world’s champion milking shorthorn. “She is
enshrined in butter,” the Queen remarked. “It is
truly an amusing idea, and appropriate.”
Adelaide greatly preferred a local paper’s
version:—
Dame Nellie Melba Sculptured in Butter.
A sculptured figure of Dame Nellie Melba, done
in Australian butter made from a champion cow,
occupies the central position in the Australian
stand at the British Industries Fair at the Olympia.
* * * *
“Emerald Hill” : Melbourne has a unique
possession in the lake at Albert Park, a sheet
of w r ater approximately two miles by one mile
by 30 inches. Should a boat capsize the crew
steps out, turns the vessel upside down and
empties it. When artist Harry Furniss
visited Melbourne many years ago he drew
a picture of an eight-oar with the crew
floundering up to the knees in the sticky
bottom half a mile from shore. The tarn
is flanked on one side by the swagger houses
of the Unco’ Rich and on the other by a
railway; but the banks have been concreted
and glorified with gardens. The water looks
like pea soup and is peppered with islands
which suggest the work of a cement manu-
facturer. Recently speed-boats have been
added to the aquatic population, much to
the annoyance of the Unco’ Rich aforesaid,
TRUMPS JUST POURED IN.
MOLLY: “Was your bridge afternoon a success?”
DOLLY: “Oh, wonderful! I didn’t know there was so much scandal in the world!"
who built their houses here in order to get
away from the motor-cycles. The speed-
boats, tearing along at 30 knots, make fur-
rows in the mud like a steam-plough, and
if they fail to respond to the helm they are
apt to land high and dry on somebody’s
private lawn or in amongst the oleanders,
still coughing. The lake is entirely sur-
rounded by cricket pitches and tennis courts,
all packed on Sundays. Since Melbourne
has just had its first shark fatality for 50
years the Albert Park lake is likely to
increase in popularity. The only fauna
it is known to contain are yabbies.
* A- *
“Piecrust”: A picture of a colored rect-
angle has been televised from America to
this countrv and re-broadcast back. When
received after the double trip it was fuzzy
but still recognisable. Television trans-
mission is older than most people think. Just
60 years ago an operator at the Atlantic
cable terminal station in Ireland accidentally
discovered the light-sensitive
selenium. An electrician had used some or
the metal in a home-made gadget, and the
operator noticed that a ray of sunlig
falling on the table caused his instruments
to move, there being a further movement
every time he interrupted the light with hi
hand. Forty years’ experiments, however,
merely advanced scientists to the stage
being able to transmit moving shadows,
real television was not accomplished tn
Baird took a hand. In 1926 Baird succeeded
in sending an image of a living human race,
complete with light, shade and detail, from
the parlor to the best bedroom. Color tele-
vision and stereoscopic television, both clue
to the same brain, have been accomplished
facts for over a year. One department I
should like to hear more about is noctovision,
or seeing without visible light. In this infra-
red rays are used. If an ordinary search-
light is turned on to a fog it only makes
things worse, as any motorist knows, but
the infra-red gets through and the photo-
electric cell is more sensitive to it than to
ordinary white light. Investigations in this
field are likely to prove of more benefit to
the community than making it possible to
see one of the Sardine Sisters at the same
moment that you hear her voice.
j|{ * ♦ *
“Listinsect”: The dispatches from the
Mawson expedition appearing in Australian
papers have been picked up by the wireless
station at the Navy Office, Melbourne. The
station has been kept in pretty weil constant
communication ever since the explorers
arrived at Kerguelen, though only with great
difficulty. It would be expected that re-
ception across the featureless expanse of
ocean would be easy, but some curious
screening effects have been encountered.
Thus Mawson has heard Melbourne quite
clearly a few miles from the island, but when
in harbor has lost us altogether. Probably
even that small block of land is sufficient to
absorb all of the weak current.
* * * *
“One Step”: The hired dancing-partner,
common enough in European and American
cities, is still something of a novelty in Aus-
tralia. In Melbourne there are a couple of
well-known and highly-reputable elderly citi-
zens who take their regular daily dozen per
medium of jazz. Their better-halves, not
caring for syncopated stepping, quite
approve of their husbands engaging part-
ners for a fee. In fact, it was one of the
wives, herself a prominent figure in social
and progressive movements, child welfare and
the like, who suggested advertising. To
show everything was aboveboard it was
decided that she should sign the ad., receive
replies and interview the applicants. The
intimation ran: “Dancing-partner wanted,
salary; necessary frocks provided,” and
there was a P.O. box number for reply. The
trouble began next morning with a telephone
call from the police demanding from a cer-
tain daily the name and address of the
advertiser. Some lynx-eyed person, it
seemed, had found in the harmless ad. some
sinister suggestion of the white-slave traffic,
and it took a lot of explanation to clear
things up.
* * *
“Buna”: Every fair-minded person will
feel a pang of sympathy with the youth who
was fined the other day for riotous behavior
in a country restaurant. He had ordered
steak and oysters, and on the appearance
of the fare he gazed for one moment in
incredulous silence at his plate. Then he
arose and began to liven up things to such
an extent that he ended up at the police
station. In inflicting a fine the S.M. regret-
fully indicated lie was unable to accept the
young man’s excuse for creating the com-
motion, holding that even if a diner does
feel his brain give way on beholding one
lone oyster languishing in the gravy the
Law still has a duty to perform.
“X.S.”: A burglars’ society reminiscent of
the robber guilds of China has just been dis-
covered by the Melbourne police. According
to its constitution, members are under as
rigid control as those of any other business
corporation. They are not allowed to retain
articles of value but are obliged to convert
them into cash immediately, and the pro-
ceeds are to be divided equally amongst all
members. They are not permitted to divulge
the nature of the organisation’s business to
outsiders, and if arrested must not reveal the
identity of , fellow-members. Any member
who redeems an article once pawned or
attempts to convert to his own use the
property of the organisation is guilty of a
misdemeanor. The society is not immune
from the virus of service, and members are
asked not to inflict unnecessary hardship on
the general public. Thus, bank passbooks,
isporting trophies, presentation cupjs and
inscribed medals are to be returned to their
owners if unsaleable.
“Wang”: The manager of a Vic. butter
factory had written in a sarcastic strain.
“If the council paid more attention to the
condition of the roads in this locality,” he
concluded, “it would better serve the rate-
payers than by increasing valuations.” “’E’s
gotter lot t’ sing out about,” cried Cr. Mc-
Grab. “W’y, the roads out ’is way is worth
’undreds every year to ’is concern.” “H'owV”
asked Cr. Rocksalt. “’Ow?” echoed Cr.
McGrabb. “Be the time the cream reaches
the fact’ry, bumpin’ over the ’oles an’ ruts,
it’s churned into butter, an’ all that bloke’s
gotter do is t’ wash an’ salt it.”
THE ONLY REASON SHE COULD THINK OF.
OLD FRIEND OF THE FAMILY: "Well, anyway, I’m glad your husband’s recovering. D’you
know of any reason why he should have taken poison?”
THE WIFE: “No, except that he was a terribly poor shot with a revolver.”
“iChev”: There is a boy in Melbourne who
has the dubious distinction of haying de-
stroyed two lives while still in his teens.
H'is death-dealing instrument is a motor-
bike. lii June last year he ran into a pedes-
trian and killed him,: and he repeated the
performance in February. In each case an
open finding was recorded, on the latest
occasion the Coroner adding some despairing
comments as to the absence of any eye-test-
ing regulations in connection with motor
licenses.
;j ; :?S t\: *
“White Peak”: Touching the pother about
the proposal to put prisoners on a road-mak-
ing job at Kuring-gai Chase (N.S.W.), short-
sentence men were employed on the roads in
the coastal towns of Westralia until the
beginning of this century. They did work
that would have remained undone other-
wise, and most of them found that the alle-
viations outweighed the disabilities. When
the practice was abandoned, in deference to
the same sentiment that is being invoked in
the Kuring-gai case, the roads got a lot
worse, probably without the prisoners’ toil
becoming any more congenial or half as
useful.
* * * *
“Karaway”: Land-agents report that hun-
dreds of houses are without tenants in some
of the outlying Sydney suburbs. Not long
ago a house was hard to get. A woman,
who had been tramping about for days
during the famine, noticed a carter dropping
a load of bricks on a vacant allotment and
crossed the street to investigate. “Are they
going to build here?” she asked. “Believe
so,” said the carter. Then she asked him
the owner’s name, his address, what sort of
a landlord he was, and finally—“ The place
isn’t let yet, is it?” The carter didn’t know.
“I’ll go round and see,” she said, and shuffled
off. A couple of hours later she returned
and said dolefully that the place Was taken.
“They were measuring the ground last Week
and a woman applied for it then.”
sjs :Jc H»
“Spare Actuary”: There is nothing like
a pension for prolonging life. In the ’seven-
ties an under-secretary of one of the Queens-
land departments was tomahawked in his
office by a lunatic with a fancied grievance.
Under the impression that he could not live
six months the Government granted him a
lordly pension. He drew it for 40 years.
* * * *
“Ostrich”: For workmanlike lifting of
other people’s cars the palm must be given
to two youths of 15 who recently escaped
from a Melbourne home for boys. Their first
step was to steal two bicycles, which car-
ried them to a place 10 miles out and were
afterwards found dropped down a w T ell. The
adventurers waited till dark, and then began
a methodical raid of all the shops in the
place, working down one side of the street
and up the other. They toiled in peace—
if I ever want a quiet spot for a murder
I’m going to choose the main street of an
outer suburb at midnight—and, having
supped sumptuously on cream, chocolates
and grapes, they selected a car from the
garage and set off in search of further adven-
tures. Twenty miles on they had an unfor-
tunate argument with a tree. Once more
they waited for the night, and this time they
got a private sedan. The sedan was found
run over an embankment and damaged be-
yond repair. In the two weeks they were
at liberty the brats got five cars, all ‘of which
were found in different places and in a more
or less wrecked condition. When arrested
they were camping in the scrub near a creek.
They said they were willing to go back as
they had had a good fortnight. The owners
of the cars will agree with them.
* * * *
“D.”: The Bulletin recently criticised
the daily-paper habit of publishing photo-
graphs of accused persons. It is no doubt
unkind to the criminals, but then the same
papers also publish photographs of detec-
tives and plain-clothes policemen. In Sydney,
owing to this practice, the plain-clothes men
are as well known by sight to those who pro-
vide them with occupation as Bavin and
Lang. The proposed importation of the
Yankee “dark-room” idea would, be a joke
in the circumstances. Immediately after
the detectives had examined a batch of lime-
lit criminals with elaborate arrangements to
prevent the malefactors seeing them, the
’tecs would probably emerge in the street
to be snapped for a pictorial page. There
has been an outbreak of tree-slashing in the
Sydney parks, and the Civic Commissioners
wanted to catch the vandals at work. One
of the flapper papers immediately came out
with: —
Council men, dressed shabbily, like park loungers,
will be employed on the job.
And then there are the full reports which
these papers print of the often foul cross-
examinations of Crown witnesses, thus
frightening other witnesses out of coming
forward to testify against criminals. Taking
one thing with another, a crook’s best friend
is his daily.
* * * *
“Hamer”: It always seemed to me that
this “In Memoriam,” picked up years ago
in a northern N.S.W, newspaper, gave a
lot of information for the money:—
We lived together 27J year
E’er dengue fever made us part.
The funeral expenses are heavy, dear,
But not as heavy as my heart.
* * * *
“Sunny Hill”: Notify the armchair
critics, who are sure to be snapping at the
man, that Percival had good warrant for
drawing the old sergeant with his rifle at
the slope on the right shoulder (B. 26/2/’3O).
It is one of the treasured privileges of the
army. When the association of non-com-
missioned officers commanding awkward
squads (I had the honor to be president)
applied to the War Office for decorative
insignia to distinguish them from non-coms,
who were not permanently at base depots, the
brass-hats refused to sanction the proposed
badge (a bucket and a potato-knife tastefully
arranged), but granted instead the privileges
of (a) sloping the rifle on the-right shoulder,
especially when addressing an officer on
parade, '(b) rolling one puttee up and the
other one down, and (c) wearing the cap
back-to-front. Percival’s non-com. availed
himself of only one of these concessions. A
singularly modest veteran.
s|s * # *
“C. Coral”: In our little N.Q. township
ice is delivered on weekdays, but on Sun-
days householders have to collect it, them-
selves. Booking out the other morning ,at
the procession of ice-carriers passing
my window, I noticed half a dozen Japanese
pushing and pulling a hand-cart (boarding-
house supplies) ; a Papuan with a block
in each hand above his head; a barefooted
abo. cycling along with a block across the
handlebars; two Europeans carrying a tub
between them; several Island boys swinging
sugar-bags containing the dripping hunks; a
motor-lorry with one small block m the
centre of its table; several half-castes haul-
ing a sledge-like concern *, a Chinaman bear-
ing his food-cooler in a basket; and, many
small boys with various receptacles, includ-
ing bags suspended from sticks. The ice-
room on Sunday morning attracts a more
variegated crowd than early church service
or even a Chinese gambling game.
SCENIC GLORIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The beautiful house in which the shooting took
place is set in lovely surroundings and commands a
magnificent view of the harbor.” —Sydney “Sun.”
The meat-axe flashed and whirled and fell;
The walls were splashed with gore;
Four corpses, grim and terrible,
Were stretched upon the floor.
The house looked out on lordly hills
And flower-gardens gay;
A glorious spot for homicide
Upon a sunny day.
The bodies twisted lay and red
Within the tumbled room ;
Without, a rare and radiant bed
Of asters was in bloom.
Upon the air hung fragrantly
Sweet scents of rose and herb;
No murderer could hit upon
A setting more superb.
Perhaps the grandeur of the scene
Ills soul poetic fired;
His artist sense, it may have been,
The dreadful deed inspired.
The slayer gazed entranced, and then
* The meat-axe seized in haste;
He could not let so fine a scene
For murder run to waste.
N.S.W.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.


mm
S 3
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE*. 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors * Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD,
J. R. KIRK, Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand).
Total Assets exceed . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Asfsociation and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying, in amount according to the sum assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately*
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for. Agencies
invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The New Moon”
Criterion “Journey’s End”
Royal “Murder on the Second Floor”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING 'WEEK.
Royal “Follow Through”
New Comedy “Lombardi, Ltd.”
King’s Allan Wilkie
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
The show of last week in Melbourne was
not the opening night of “Lombardi, Ltd.,”
at the Comedy, but the selection of the man-
nequins who walk on for five minutes* in
that romantic trifle. Artist Percy Leason,
physical culture-expert Clarence Weber and
actor Carillo were the bench of eminent
judges charged with the task of separating
the sheep from the—any polite feminine
equivalent. The extravagant lure of the
footlights was illustrated by the fact that
over 700 optimises stormed the theatre for
the preliminary drafting. The wages are
£2 Bs., so the motive could hardly have
been mercenary. Ages ranged from 15 to
50, shapes from willow slips to comfortable
prosperity. Coiffures comprised anything
from black marcelle waves of oceanic pro-
portions to flaring yellow sponges like South
Sea islanders wear.
The make-ups of the ladies were many and
various. Their lips were painted like slits,
blobs, Cupid’s bows and crescents. Their
cheeks resembled pink sunsets, red dawns,
terra-cotta tiles and Salv’army banners. Their
shoes were all of the same design, the heels
not varying in height by more than a few
inches. Asked to walk naturally the damsels
pirouetted, slid, twisted, writhed, wriggled,
ambled, drooped, hesitation-waltzed, walked
on eggs, on hot bricks, or performed the sur-
prising feat of combining all these movements
in one and the same person. Requested to
smile normally they smirked, grinned, glad-
eyed, leered, tittered, frowmed, simpered or
did all 49 simultaneously. It was a remark-
able exhibition. A Rip Van Winkle who
had fallen asleep in 1890 and reawakened
for the occasion would have been shocked,
staggered, puzzled, amazed. He would have
asked if they were really human, and when
told that they wei’e examples of Miss Aus-
tralia 1 would have urgently requested the
Bananaland soprano MOLLY DE GUNST, who helped Sydney’s
unemployed musicians to pack the Town Hall.
gods to put him off to sleep again. Not
that there was no beauty amongst the
assortment. There was —much of it; but the
ladies had buried it with great efficiency.
Nor did they all belong to the described
categories. The 12 selected were compara-
tively plain, simple and unadorned, much to
the surprise and indignation of the rejected.
Among the chosen dozen were those whose
gait was free and easy, whose smile was
spontaneous and unaffected and whose lips
were more or less as Nature made them.
Quite by a coincidence present writer
lunched subsequently at a Chinese restaurant
where he found a Shanghai magazine printed
in Chinese characters. It was full of photos
of Celestial belles in bathing costumes, short
skirts, high-heeled shoes, lip salve and the
rest of it. The journal had been running a
beauty competition and a full-page picture
of the winner was given. Miss China (1929)
was an amusing caricature of the caricatures
the writer had just been surveying. He
lit a joss-stick and kowtowed 19 times to
the Omnipotent American Movie.
* * *
The play is as likely to be the apple of
Melbourne’s playgoing eye as it was that
of Sydney’s. The surefire acting of Leo Car-
rillo, with its astute mixture of realism and
vaudeville devices for getting spontaneous
laughs out of an audience, is tremendously
in its favor, and so is the paralysing display
of mannequins. The pre-selection ballot for
the latter was obviously aimed at finding
forms to fit the gowns already worn by the
chosen beauties of Sydney. Contestants who
missed the judge’s eye can thus salve their
disappointed souls by blaming J.C.W.’s
tailors. The cast is practically the same as
received the hearty commendations of this
Page at the Harbor City opening, and though
all enthusiastically overact, overacting and
over-everything else is the appropriate thing
in a piece staged exclusively in the ornate
atelier of Tito Lombardi, Italian eonfector
of feminine apparel. It seems almost obli-
gatory on a critic to mention that the frocks
are entirely after the “Sadie Gay” model, the
hosiery and lingerie came from Kayser, the
hairdressing was done by the Wanda Salon
de Beaute, and that the gum chewed by Mar-
garet Cullen-Landis was supplied by Wrig-
ley (Aust.), Ltd. For the next few weeks
the last-cited firm will have to work over-
time.
* * *
Allan Wilkie showed himself a bad sales-
man if an honorable fellow by not taking
advantage of the extraordinary enthusiasm
aroused by “The School for Scandal” in
Melbourne. After the remarjrable demon-
stration of the first night, and the equally
unusual furore on the following Monday,
when hundreds were turned away, the actor-
manager should, by all the laws of showman-
ship, have cancelled his Shakspearean items
and embarked on a long season off the great
Sheridan comedy. Nothing succeeds like
success, and the warmth of the initial recep-
tion indicates that a reaction against the
talkies has started in Melbourne, where taste
is usually accounted more solid than in
Sydney. It would
have been interest-
ing to see whether
the revival of a
seventeenth-century
play would run as
long as, say “The
Trespasser” talkie
at the Athenaeum.
Wilkie, however,
elected to kee.p
faith with the
public and changed
to “The Merchant”
three days after-
wards, in accord-
ance with his
advertisements.
* * *
Nancy Weir,
who made her bow
to a Sydney audi-
ence at the Con.
on Saturday night,
is a sturdy little
girl of 14 until she
gets her fingers on
a. pianoforte key-
board; then the
maturity of many
years settles upon
her face and ex-
presses itself in her
music. Glazounov’s
“Theme and Varia-
tions,” which runs
the gamut from
utter simplicity to
the latest limit of
digital and tonal
complexity, was
played with sur-
prising power and
aplomb. Details of
the ornamentation
were a little
blurred here and
the r e, but the
theme sang clearly
throughout its 14
metamorphoses and the changing moods were
delineated with understanding. •
A baker’s dozen of excerpts, from Schu-
mann’s “Kinderscenen” was a little hurried.
There was a tendency, too, to lay just a
little too much emphasis on the secondary
and tertiary themes so enticingly mingled by
the composer, and the license of rubato was
strained a bit at times. In a Chopin group
the “Trois Ecossaises” were outstanding m
their sprightliness and grace. The Ballade
•in F, that hauntingly sad little song, was
sweetly declaimed. For encores there were
Godard’s “Minuet Pompadour,” Rebikoff’s
musical-boxy “Danse dcs Clochettes” and
some more of Schumann’s child memories.
A crowded audience gave the young per-
former a warm-hearted reception.
How far Nancy Weir will go is a matter
for curious speculation. She has the phy-
sique—particularly in the matter of her
arms, which are short from shoulder to
elbow and long from elbow to finger-tips—
requisite to a career as a virtuoso ; her musi-
cal instincts are
surprisingly de-
veloped for her age,
and she has already
mastered most of
the physical diffi-
culties of pianism.
Rigorous training
under those Euro-
pean masters to
whom she is going
should take her
further, but it is a
dickens of a long
way to the top, and
one can’t escape
the feeling that it
would have been
better for her ulti-
mate success had
she been spared the
juvenile triumphs
of the last few
months.
* * #
“Murder on the
Second Floor,” with
which Leon Gordon
is saying farewell
to Australia at
Sydney Royal, is
an engaging trifle,
openly and without
shame a money-
spinner. A play
author of the un-
successful type is
spurred on, as is
not uncommon, by
his lady to quit the
higher brow and
write something
like so-and-so, who
made thousands,
etc. The play is
thereupon played,
stretching between
that prologue and an
epilogue. It has no
serious pretensions
to be regarded as dramatic, but it is O.K. as
an entertainer. Gordon appeared at the end
of it and mentioned that he was glad to see
this victory against the talkies, the reopening
of the Royal as a legit, house, adding the
queer p.s. that he was on his way to Hollywood
to appear in talkies. A wholly competent cast
included Mary MacGregor, Dulcie Cherry,
George Blunt, Ashton Jarry and John
Bedouin, with Frank Bradley his usual out-
standing self in a rather minor role.
# * *
The second hop-over in the professional
musicians’ anti-talkie campaign at Sydney
Town Hall was led by Albert Cazabon, a
capable and energetic general. The house
was crowded —even more so than on the first
night—and the applause was enthusiastic
enough to win sundry encores. Mendelssohn's
“Ruy Bias” opened the attack. It was fol-
lowed by a magnificently subdued reading
of Dvorak’s “New World Symphony” and
“The Dance of the Hours” from “La Gio-
conda.” Further offerings were two short
dances of Delibes, two bright numbers by
Percy Grainger and a spirited performance
of Berlioz’s “Hungarian March.” Cazabon,
himself thoroughly artistic throughout, held
his orchestra in perfect command. Molly de
Gunst gave some of her voice to the cause.
She was especially good in Senta’s Ballad
from “The Flying Dutchman,” and in a
number of short ballads. For the third offen-
sive on March 8 Bessie Blake and Raymond
Beatty will let the orchestra have a breather
or two.
* %■ *
Sydney Players emerged from obscurity
with a one-night production at the Savoy of
Miles Malleson’s “Merrileon Wise.” The
drama takes its title from the name of the
play’s heroine, a splendid-hearted, fearless-
minded young Englishwoman, who, however,
despite all her modernism, is paternally over-
awed. Her father represents an intolerant,
class-conscious type of conservative with
extreme ideas concerning the relationship
between father and children. Her mother is
considerably more easy-going and sympa-
thetic, though she endorses the old man.
Merrileon’s brother is a callow duplicate
of the father. With such a family it is
inevitable that ructions must come when
Merrileon falls in love with Mark Hind,_ a
penniless musician. The father orders him
out, after which a perverse streak of honor
stays Mark from taking the girl away at her
own request. A year later and Mark has
won fame for an opera. But he has wrecked
his health, and Merrileon’s rush to his aid
is too late.
Despite the thin and hackneyed plot and
the one-sided fight, the play has a fair amount
of dramatic quality; good lines and charac-
terisation pull it through. The cast stood
in need of a few extra rehearsals, but did
well on the whole. Lorna Harwood, as
Merrileon, displayed a very penetrating
conception of her part, and her excellent
stage voice and manner made it live. S. R.
Irving was at home all the time as the
father, and so was Rita Hunfrees as the
mother. W. G. Wright, as Mark Hind,
DOROTHY BUSH, with Beresford Fowler in “Chains” at
Melbourne Queen’s.
lacked fire, and the ministerial ring in his
voice was surely not intended by the author.
&
There is no sentimentality about “Fallen
Angels,” the Noel Coward comedy which
Beresford Fowler put on three times last
week at the Queen’s Hall for the first time
in Melbourne and reputedly for the first
time in Australia. Hence, with sentiment
being poured out in treacly waves from
every stage in town, it had a refreshing
quality, like finding cold water in the bath
at Bourke during a heat-wave.
It is a sure conclusion that all the critical
guns will be brought to bear on anybody
who portrays sex without sentiment nowa-
days, so Fowler showed considerable courage.
The result would have been horrible if it
had not been for the acting of Mollie Locke
and Winifred Moverley as the two married
women who become maudlin and then quar-
relsomely drunk while waiting for a former
pre-nuptial lover of • French nationality.
Both ladies conveyed fairly successfully
that they really were in possession of a
romantic, passionate and irregular past,
which Norman Blackler, as the Frenchman,
didn’t. The play is not remarkable for
depth, but it has flashes of psychological
insight and occasional airs of reality, and
is often extremely funny. The absence of
the usual stereotyped concessions to morality
makes the piece easier to sit through than
most plays on the conventions.
In the days of the Restoration drama-
tists, or of Goldsmith and Sheridan, Noel
Coward would not have been regarded as
any great shakes of a playwright. In these
days of My Baby and Mammy of Mine, of
synchronised, syndicated, machine-made en-
tertainment, he assumes the dimensions of a
positive genius. The production was good
considering difficulties. The announcement
that it would be staged “with lavish, ornate
splendor” was no worse a whopper than is
usual in theatrical advts.
* * *
Adelaide is being “dared” not to come
warmly to the support of “Love Lies,” open-
ing at the Royal this month. Here is a
show, good and new,' at the popular prices
of “6, 4 and 2”; so runs the managerial
challenge. Support it, and you shall have
“Journey’s End” and other plays. But if
you show that you want only talkies, you
shall have nothing else; the Royal is wired
all ready, to meet any fate, and drama in
Adelaide dies. It is an inspiring challenge.
* * *
Melbourne Reps, will commence a season
at the Playhouse with “R.U.R.,” the Robot
play by Capek, on Saturday.


lo^OE
Mat,
/
SS
X§
cx
==S5
S 8
£S
I
i
m
&
■JSk
yy/k
m
2^:
£2^
mum
TURD
■
7/s
X
y
Endurance
BRITAIN’S PRIDE—HER NAVY
To the foresight of her earliest statesmen Britain
owes the foundation of her navy—to the brains,
inventive skill and engineering ingenuity of today
Britain owes her Sea Supremacy—won in a thous-
and battles by the Endurance of her men and guns*
Barnet Class
Tyres
m u&mm
Jmr endurance


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Pisk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers' Compensation,
r V 111 pAT H P R\ r v
6 IT I NGVS
Pre-Tested Belting
Throughout every process of manu-
facture, from rawhide to fiinished
belt, there is constant expert super-
vision and inspection. This close
attention to every detail ensures that
the quality and workmanship are of
the highest order. Every Pioneer
Belt is thoroughly tested at each
stage of its manufacture, and be-
cause of these painstaking methods
we are able to guarantee it against
breakdowns under specified load.
PIONEER Leather Belting
J. c. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
Pioneer House, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY (our only city address).
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company, Limited.
Founded 1886.
Assets at 31st December, 1928,
£18,792,732
of which 84% was represented by
Public Securities.
The M.L.C. Charter is constituted to
admit of the issue of policies to meet
the necessities of every class, every age,
every purse. Its range of contracts is
unsurpassed for diversity and liberality,
and the fulfilment of every contract is
guaranteed by the Company’s capital
and its ever-increasing assurance Funds.
CASH SURPLUS in the Ordinary
Branch for the year 1928, £624,370.
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
Head Office: Citizens’ Building, Castiereagh
Street and Martin Place, Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
This Week’s Investment Tip.
The commonest question put to the invest-
ment broker when his client visits him nowa-
days is “How soon do you think gilt-edged
stocks will get back to where they were last
year?” If the investment broker is wise he
won't hold out much hope of an early
recovery. Two factors govern stock prices,
as a rule: one is interest return, the other
prospects of accretion or reduction of capital.
In our markets of recent years possible accre-
tions have been a most influential factor.
Two notable Sydney instances can be re-
called : “Daily Telegraph” and Sydney
Ferries. Both developed the habit of annual
bonuses, until the market began to expect
them as if they were dividends and the
stocks were yielding under 3‘ p.c. When
the bonuses stopped, as of course they had to
stop at some time, there was weeping and
wailing. In June of last year not a single
Australian bank share was yielding more
than 5.1 p.c. at current prices, and some
were yielding only a shade over 4. Among
insurance stocks two were yielding under
4 and none of the bigger ones over 4.5.
Obviously share prices were based on expec-
tations of either bonus or par issues or an
early rise hi dividend rate —the former as
a rule. For some time to come the basis of
value must be interest return, with an eye
on the chances of a dividend-reduction or in
a few cases loss of capital; so the old level
of prices has no longer any justification as
far as many of the most popular stocks of
last year are concerned.
City Mutual Life.
Writ- Added to
ten Assurance
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Fund.
£ £ £ £ £
1900 . . 55,713 24,450 16,265 1,950 13,048
1910 .. 121,588 39,352 28.961 7,388 45,887
1920 . . 464,079 158,487 70,134 665 234,793
1921 .. 570,065 198,603 78,755 11,488 281,219
1922 .. 641,593 231,764 81,292 6,977 322,560
1923 .. 715,179 266,200 79,765 12,036 357,173
1924 .. 809,039 292,241 83,115 4,613 429,070
1925 .. 867,172 339,366 90,190 25,912 411,704
1926 . . 980,372 371,455 98,364 2,410 508,143
1927 ..1,094,045 441,648 116,964 11,488 523,945
1928 . . 1,223,364 516,262 126,903 53,351 526,848
1929 . . 1,362,027 588,700 153,978 2,580 616,769
This, the youngster of Australia’s five big
mutual offices, has since 1922 more than
doubled income as it stood after 43 years
of effort. Amongst the responsible factors
are fat bonuses and the management’s invest-
ment policy, which . has been very helpful
in securing new business at moderate cost.
Gatherings, however, are not quite all they
look in the table. For instance, last year
£320,100 of cash bonuses was declared, and
95 p.c. (£304,308) of them, or nearly 2 p.c.
more than in the previous year, remained
in the business as additional insurance. The
two amounts are included with claims and
income respectively. Leaving undrawn cash
bonuses out of account, the year’s actual
revenue (£1,057,719) passed the million-
pound mark for the first time. After satis-
fying all legitimate claims, paying exes, and
striking £2580 off the book value of assets,
£016,769, or more than half the year’s total
income, remained to swell the life fund,
increasing it to £5,457,447.
The Government having recently decided
to tax the investment income of life offices,
the society earmarked £lOO,OOO for the
equalisation of bonuses. Last year the tax-
gatlier called for an extra £20',233, but the
bonus reserve remained undisturbed and
actual bonuses declared were 45.9 p.c. of
the net premiums as against 40.9 p.c. for
the previous year and 33.7 p.c. in 1924.
That, in effect, means a substantial reduction
in the net cost of insurance.
Here is a view of the business from
another angle:—
1911. 1928. 1929.
Policies . . .. 3379 5342 5811
Assuring .. .. £599,361 £3,023,000 £3,290,500
First premiums . . 40,406 88,975 96,397
Renewal premiums 79,826 546,152 598,651
Annuities . . 400 13,600 5,183
Interest, etc. . . 30,722 324,428 357,488
The effects of the increased taxation show
up in cost ratios. Cutting bonus figures out
of the calculations, exes, took 14.5 p.c. of
the year’s total income compared with 13
and 13.4 p.c. in the two preceding years.
As for new business, assuming that it is 10
times more expensive than old, then last
year’s first premiums were got at a cost of
95.3 p.c. as against 80.7 and 80.2 p.c. in 1928
and 1927 respectively. But since this society’s
investments call for special care and atten-
tion, it is doubtful whether the actual new
business cost-rate is as high as those figures
suggest.
It is on its investments that the office
scores most heavily. It assumes that its
funds will earn a standard rate of p.c.,
whereas the £357,488 received in interest and
profits on realisations, etc., was actually 6.9
p.c. on average funds compared with 6.8, 6.6,
6.9 and 6.3 p.c. back to 1924. The mainten-
ance of such a high rate of earning, made
possible by the large proportion of funds put
out on mortgage, must mean good bonuses.
On the other hand, of course, high returns
mean large risks, and call for very expert
handling.
At Dec. 31 the balance-sheet totalled
£5,875,379, the money being invested in this
way:—
1928. p.e. 1929. p.e.
Public securities . . £827,067 16.1 £1,088,750 18.5
Mortgages . . . . 2,965,298 57.7 3,203,840 54.5
Loan!! oil policies.. 528,669 10.3 621,160 10.5'
Properties . . . . 373,806 7.3 414,666 7.1
Shares & debentures
etc. . . . . 229,910 4.5 414,254 7.1
Cash a,nd sundries.. 212,679 4.1 132,708 2.3
Toward the close of accounts interest rates
hardened, and loans on good Stock Exchange
security at 6J p.c. and 7 p.c. were offering,
so the management put more into public
securities and shares than usual, thus increas j
ing the spread of investments. Chairman
and managing-director George Crowley, who
has built up the business, not wholly on
orthodox lines, gives his assurance that “the
City Mutual directors, foreseeing the in-
evitable years ago, made ample provision for
any contingencies that may arise.” Chief
danger lies in the possibilities of a crisis
wiping out margins and eating into the
society’s ledger values, which would mean
nursing foreclosures, and, of course, bonuses
would suffer. On the other hand, existing
conditions afford opportunity to obtain
improved yields on other new investments.
Newcastle and Hunter River Steamship Co.
To Ke- Re-
Dec.. Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1919.. 10,012 10 p.c.■= 10,000 12 l
Written off, £17,495 j X14,0..8
Reserves capitalised, £50,000 .. 64,028
1920. . 29,210 10 p.c. = 15,000 { „„„ „ 99Q
Written off contingencies, £248 j ‘ '»
1921. . 23,937 10 p.c. = 15,000 [ „ QQr aft aa ,
Written off, £42 j 8 > 895 86 > 885
1922.. 20,291 10 p.c. = 15,000 5,291 92,176
1923.. 19,281 10 „ „ 15,000 4,281 96,457
1924.. 28,892 10 „ ~15,000 13,892 110,349
1925.. 29,420 TO „ ~15,000 14,420 124,769
1926.. 29,744 10 „ ~ 15,000 14,744 139,513
1927.. 32,617 10 „ ~15,000 17,617 157,130
1928.. 21,435 10 „ ~15,000 6,435 163,565
1929.. 20,886 10 „ „ 15,000 5,886 169,451
The dislocation of business on the northern
coalfields did this co.’s earnings no good,
while arbitration awards again increased
wages. So the co. caught it coming and
going. But the co. is so well dug in that
as usual the board was able to write' net
profit a few pounds in excess of the div.
And that was after £5838 had been dropped
into general reserves, making them £111,824.
There is also an insurance reserve of £57,266,
unchanged during the year, which has been
built up as opportunity offered since 1920.
This the “Wild Cat” has treated as genuine
profit.
Taking visible movements into account, the
slip in the year’s net earnings was only
£549, the £20,886 of profit being 13.9 p.c.
on capital compared with 14.2, 21.7, 19.8 and
19.6 p.c. back to 1925, so the 10 p.c. div.
remained a comfortable matter. And the
profit may have been better than stated, for an
unknown amount is regularly laid aside for
depreciation, and judged on its past record
the board is more likely to have been too
liberal there than too mean. When the
bonus egg was hatched in 1920 the directors
admitted that for the years prior to 1914
they could have shown £BO,OOO more profit if
they had wanted to. Another feature of the
accounts is a decided increase in the earn-
ing power of capital after the gift-giving,
which, by the way, has been the only change
in capital since the present co. amalgamated
two rival concerns in 1891. For the eight
years to 1919 profits averaged 13.2 p.c. on
capital, and the average for the nine years
to the close of last accounts mounted to 17
p.c. Maybe, also, internal provisions are
not quite on the same scale as they used
to be ; still it is unlikely that the old habit
has been abandoned. At any rate, the 10
p.c. div. wears as steady a look as any
10 p.c. can in these troubled times, and
visible accumulations were £19,451 in excess
of paid capital at Dec. 31.
Here is the co.’s position as balance-sheet
figures disclose it
1919. 1928. 1929.
Capital £lOO,OOO £150;!000 £150,000
Liabilities .. . . 23,557 20,748 15,789
Ship property .. .. 89,759 192,926 191,686
Freeholds and leaseholds 16,309 15,444 15,444
Plant, stores, etc. . . 6,040 11,616 12,151
Book debts . . . . 17,350 18,248 14,986
Cash, etc 108,332 103,579 108,473
The fleet is regularly reported in good order.
The £103,423 visibly added to reserves dur-
ing the last decade, and a bit more, has all
gone into fixed assets. The liquid surplus
was a comfortable £107,670 when the books
last closed.
The market, impressed by the co.’s steady
progress and its snug position, gradually
lengthened its bid for the scrip from 31s.
in 1921»to 425. 6d. in September, 1929, thus
anticipating future benefit. But since the
present depression, which has been accom-
panied by a rise in interest rates, set in there
has been a Revision of estimates, mainly along
the lines as to whether current dividend
rates are likely to be maintained. Recently
buyers offered 365. and sellers asked 375. At
the middle price the return is only 5.5 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis, or a shade less than
is to be had from Government stock. The
backing amounts to 425. 7d. in net
tangibles.
The Victoria Palace, Ltd. (Melb.).
Written To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1918.. 8,134 111 p.c. = 4,387 3747 18,286
1919.. 8,765 101 „ „ 6,337 2428 20,694
1920.. 11,793 224 „ „ 8,775 3018 23,712
Reserves capitalised, £19,500 . . 4,212
1921.. 13,935 20 p.c. = 11,700 559 1670 5,888
1922.. 14,462 20 „ ~ 11,700 941 2762 7,709
1923.. 13,197 20 „ ~11,700 1497 9,206
1924.. 12,426 174- „ „ IT, 133 1293 10,499
1925.. 16,034 174 „ ~ 15,400 034 11,133
1926.. 18,793 174 „ ~15,400 3393 14,526
Premiums on shares, £4400 . . 18,926
Struck off plant, £3500 . . . . 15,420
1927.. 19,760 20 p.c. 18,602 1158 16,584
Premiums on shares, £17,600 . . 34,184
1928.. 19,975 174 p.e. 19,015 900 35,144
Premiums on shares, £30,800 .. 65,944
1929.. 24,432 15 p.c. = 21,010 3422 69,366
When this co.’s Collins-street lease fell in
a few years ago some shareholders feared the
worst, and urged that the business be wound
up. Instead the board mapped a vigorous
policy of development. The demand grew
as quickly as extra accommodation became
available; a firm hold was kept upon exes.,
and profits responded to the outlay.
The £24,432 netted last year was 17.4
p.c. on average capital compared with 18.3,
21.3, 21.3 and 18.2 p.c. back to 1925 —sur-
prisingly good results, all things considered.
But owing to the threatening gloom 2i points
were snipped off the div., reducing it to 15
p.c. And the cream is skimmed off that by
premiums of 100 p;c. on last year’s new
share issue and of 50 p.c. on the issue in
1926.
Over the last five years earnings have
bounded along in this way:—
Exes. p.e.
Revenue. Exes. of Revenue.
1925.. £76,072 £60,038 78.9
1926.. 83,308 64,515 77.4
1927.. 94,844 75,084 -79.1
1928.. 107,075 87,100 81.3
1929.. 133,483 109,051 81.7
The new cafetarias are doing well; more
than £B5OO of the increase in last year’s,
revenue • came from catering. This section
of the business is to be further extended;
a 10-years’ lease of an adjoining ground floor
has been' taken for the purpose. The top
floors in-the new nine-storeyed building, put
up on a 65-years’ ground lease, were equipped
early in 1929, thus raising the total capacity
of the co.’s premises to 800 guests, or 60
p.c. more than it was two years ago. Here
the co. pays no rent, but had to spend £5OOO
on the first and ground floors, occupied by
the Baptist Church.
To lighten the floating debt and see the
construction programme through, 88,000 new
10s. shares were put out at 10s. premium
early in 1929, making paid capital £168,415
at Dec. 31; there was £26,400 of share and
£13,200 of premium money still to come in.
This and other things are visible in the next
comparison;—
1923. 1926. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital .. £58,500 £BB,OOO £127,008 £168,415
Mortgages . . 15,000 49,781 47,911 46,889
Other liabilities 5,476 9,445 61,718 11,821
Freehold . . 74,547 144,287 158,709 164,727
Leasehold .. 85,604 99,207
Plant; etc. .. 13,236 22,534 37,289 42,206
Stores .. .. 524 774 579 483
Debtors.. .. 452 476 787 758
Cash, etc. .. 5,273 281
During the year the mortgage was reduced
a trifle, while the overdraft (£50,801 at the
previous balance; now T £562) was practically
wiped out, leaving the floating debt £10,580
in excess of liquids. The rest of the money
went into fixed assets, up £24,538.
It is plain that in the near future the
public will have less spare cash in its
pockets than formerly. Still this co.’s tak-
ings may suffer - less than most. The busi-
ness is on a cash basis, but costs are high
and margins between earnings and distri-
butions slender. Much will depend upon
.whether expenditure on replacements, charged
to earnings, proves to be adequate to coyer
actual depreciation.
The market expresses its confidence by
pricing the fully paids at 225.; at which
figure the return is 6.8 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div.
basis. The net tangible backing is 28s. 6d.
per pound of capital.
Hydraulic Power and Lifts (Syd.).
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ jg £ £
1918.. 11,129 6 p.c. = 6750 4379 33,956
1919.. 10,698 6 „ „ 6750 3948 37,904
Profit from sale of assets . . 4183 42,087
1920.. 10,504 7i p.c. = 8438 2066 44,153
1921.. 11,854 7| „ „ 8470 3384 47,537
1922.. 11,905 7§ „,, 9298 2607 50,144
1923.. 10,415 8 ~ „ 9600 815 50,959
1924.. 9,492 7 „ „ 8400 1092 52,051
1925.. 9,623 71,, „ 9000 623 52,674
1926.. 9,864 8 ~ „ 9000 264 52.938
1927.. 11,749 8 „ „ 9600 2149 55,087
1928.. 10,365 8,, „ 9600 765 55,852
Though competition is very keen in the
elevator business, until quite recently the
unusual activity in the building trade stimu-
lated the demand, and the pinch wasn’t felt
so much. This co. lias a lot of capital
represented by hydraulic mains and plant,
which, owing to electric power having largely
taken the place of hydraulic, are not nearly
so profitable as they used to be.
It was the Sydney and Suburban
Hydraulic Power Co. for 3G years; then, in
1925, the supply and installation of electric
lifts was added to other activities and the
name became Hydraulic Power, Electric
and Hydraulic Lifts, Ltd. For 20 years
or thereabouts before that the electric was
steadily displacing the hydraulic passenger
lift, and for a while it looked as though this
co. might miss the ’bus.
Since 1908, when the last of the 10 p.c.
divs. was paid, shareholders have averaged
only 7.4 p.c. There was a run of thin
years for the decade preceding the intro-
duction of the co.’s electric department, but
it was hoped that the new line would assist
profits sufficiently to maintain the rate at
8 p.c. That rate was paid until half way
through the last term ; the final div. being
reduced to 4 p.c. p.a., making 6 p.c. for
the year. Gross profits advanced from
£41,158 in 1924 to £61,994 in 1928; but
for the past year, and particularly during
the last six months of it, trading results
were unsatisfactory, and gross profits
(£57,962) falling away £4032:
Ex- Ex-
Revenue. penses. Revenue, penses.
1895. . £20,950 £14,399 1925. . £42,715 £31,592
1905.. 23,902 10,562 1926.. 47,279 35,915
1915.. 24,074 13,898 1927.. 56,986 43,237
1920.. 36,441 25,088 1928.. 61,994 49,429
1924.. 41,158 30,666 | 1929.. 57,962 49,181
A slight cut of £248 was. made in exes.
(£49,151, before providing for taxation)
and the taxation allowance (£1600) was
reduced £600; thus the year’s net result
(£7181) was £3184 poorer, and only 6 p.c.
on capital compared with 8.6, 9.8, 8.3 and
8 p.c. back to 1925. The reduced dividend
called for £7200, or £l9 more than the
declared net earnings. The lay-by shown
in the table (£55,833) includes a plant,
renewal and contingency reserve (£40,000),
but does not take into account the value
placed upon Parliamentary rights and con-
cessions (£15,000). Their chief value lay
in the hope which once existed that the
City Council, might use its authority to buy
the undertaking at stated intervals —the
third terminated last year.
The more or less liquid surplus (£11,524,
including stocks) was £3687 lower than at
the previous balance :
1923. 1927. 1928. 1929.
More or less liquid
assets(inc. stock) £28,745 £29,243 £31,482 £28,947
Liabilities.. .. 13,125 16,270 17,996 19,148
Surplus .. £15,620 £12,973 £13,486 £9,799
The final div. (£2400) and provision for
taxation (£1600) will reduce the surplus to
£5799. During the year the co. secured the
N. S. Wales rights for Westinghouse electric
lifts, which embody some of the latest types
of control and operating mechanism, includ-
ing the automatic “level-to-floor” principle.
Business, however, is not likely to be easy
to get.
There are 150,000 ords. issued, half of
them called to 12s. The scrip is covered by
net tangibles with a book value of 295. 3d.
for each 20s. of paid capital. Sellers ask
17s. for the scrip without attracting
buyers,
D. Mitchell and Co., Ltd. (Sydney).
To Re- Re-
Dee., Net Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £>£•£,
1919.. 16.944 8 p.c. = 11,775 5169 32,820
1920.. 19.785 9 „ „ 17,250 2535 35,355
1921.. 6.206 6 i„ „ 14,625 26,936
1922.. 16,418 7 „ „ 15,750 668 27,604
1923.. 12,478 7 „ „ 15,750 24.332
1924.. 21,725 7i „ „ 16,875 4850 29,182
1925.. 13,852 7 „ „ 15,750 27,314
1926.. 10,711 7 „ „ 15,750 22,275
1927.. 11,733 7 „ „ 15,750 18,258
1928.. 8,030 5 ~ „ 11,250 15,038
1929.. 3,082 2$ „ „ 5,625 13,496
Results for the first six of the last 12 months
trading appeared to warrant the declaration
of an interim div., the chairman says, and
2| p.c. was handed out. But for the latter
half turnover was affected by drought and
industrial troubles r and if any profit at all
was earned during this period, then, on the
figures as presented, the board took the risk,
not justified in the circumstances, of paying
more than was earned in the first half.


Is your Oil
a passenger?
/
mmmmm
iiniHMiiiißfe m
>
I I Ji
1 's%/7 ~s Wer -<■ I
&w ■"/%y a*
wmrnMm^Jmr
HBH
Va
fmmmm
1 mg
| §g M
H
g Hi
Wm
wmm
*5
My
' ■
a
\r
V
n:
fes
X
} <
!t j
W
Do you just take your oil
for a ride because you
have to —or do you give
the matter of lubrication
really serious considera-
tion? If you knew more
about motor oils you
would not make your
choice lightly.
Atlantic gives your Engine
a real working partner!
When you buy a quart of Atlantic you are
buying a quart of perfect lubrication. You are
not buying any low-melting, oil-thinning, waxy
impurities. Such impurities (which are
not removed by ordinary refining pro-
cesses) are entirely eliminated from
Atlantic by a special and extra whirling
process. And that isn’t all!,
t i
§i6*
A second Atlantic process "tempers” or
toughens the oil, rendering it the most
durable engine lubricant known. The result
is that Atlantic remains unaltered in spite of
heat, pressure and friction. Nothing
can alter its basic character. It never
breaks down. If it weren’t for ordinary
road-dirt and petrol contamination,
Atlantic would keep on lubricating
your car for a year on end! It is
always on its "metal.”
è


HAVE WE
REACHED
BOTTOM?
See “ ‘WUd Cat’
Monthly”
for March
NOW ON SALE
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM,
22/6. From Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
G.L.T.: If a man buys for £1 and without
going to any expense sells for £2, he makes 100
per cent, profit... .P.Q.Y.: Private co.; *no data
available Rollo: It is a fair charge... .F.A.S.: It’s
a gamble; and if you can afford to gamble, you had
better keep going, having gone that far J.M.S.:
It will pay you to cash your bonus.
'jfi * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, . obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
iDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colmson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * *
On the count of economy, both as regards first
cost, installation and upkeep, no pipe can approach
Pioneer Wood Pipe. And as regards its ability to
give absolutely satisfactory service, it is hall-marked
by experienced engineers, who use it extensively.
Pioneer Wood Pipe is non-corrosive, light, strong
and extremely durable. Fullest particulars and
illustrated data book free on request to The Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near
Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at Foot-
scray, Victoria. — Advt.
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialist's. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W
MAKE YOUR WILL!
The making of a Will and the appointment of a reliable Executor is a
matter demanding the most careful attention of every man and woman
possessing property.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED,
Acts as
TRUSTEES - EXECUTORS - ATTORNEYS - AGENTS
This old-established Company has had over 42 years’ experience in the
management of all classes of Estates. Unlike an individual, it cannot
die, and, moreover, it offers its Capital and Assets of over £I,OOO,OUU
as security for the protection of clients interests.
Our explanatory Booklet, sent free on
request, will interest you. Write now.
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Ass't Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
insure; with the
Australian General
Insurance Company Ltd.
fire, marine, accident,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
11 7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
AGENTS WANTED WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
Thus the reserves were further dipped into
at a time when their strengthening was more
to be desired.
The year’s gross profit (£101,383) fell
away £7730, making the slide over the last
three years £23,553. The management was
unable to make an adequate cut in exes,
which took 96.9 p.c. of the gross profit as
against 89.6 p.c. and 87.2 p.c. in the two
preceding years. Hence the net result
withered to £3082, the poorest since the
public became interested 14 years ago, and
less than half the amount claimed during
the post-war slump in 1921.
Over the last nine years shareholders have
averaged only 6.2 p.c.; and only twice during
that time lias the div. been earned, according
to the accounts. Since 1920 declared net
earnings have fallen short of distributions
by no less than £21,859. One of the chief
troubles is the keenness of competition from
small concerns, and times have to be exceed-
ingly bad before they go right under. Hence
profit margins are so slender that the co.
lias been quite unable to make headway, not-
withstanding that it manufactures much of
its own requirements and has strong country
connections. It is therefore little consolation
to shareholders to know that the business
holds fairly well in the lean years, since they
get no cream from the richer ones.
Here is as much as balance-sheet figures
tell: —-
•1920. 1926. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital. . £225,000 £225,000 £225,000 £225,000
Liabilities . . 145,136 202,093 162,837 171,109
Properties and
plant . . 24,435 53,854 52,720 53,026
Stock.. .. 128,350 121,251 105,775 109,094
Book debts, etc. 255,186 266,826 233,038 236,959
Cash, etc. .. 8,770 15,312 15,843 9,525
There is probably some hidden strength in
the freeholds, some of which have become too
valuable for the purpose for which they are
used. But unless the board is able to sell
these, part or all of the unearned incre-
ment- may disappear in the future. Exactly
how the financial position stands is difficult
to say, because the co.’s holding in Mitchell’s
Factories, Ltd., in which it owns all the
shares, is shoved in with the book debts at
£236,959, up £3921 during the year. The
debt is substantial, but how much of it is
fixed and how much current is not disclosed.
Including shares and stock, the more or less
liquid surplus (£191,819) was £7350 lighter
than at the previous balance.
Though most of the country districts in
N. S. Wales have -been relieved by rains, the
tightness in the money market clouds the
outlook, and trading threatens to become
more difficult as the year advances. The
scrip, which sold around par three years ago,
is now at 11s. in the market. The backing
amounts to 21s. 2d. in net tangibles at book
values.
Associated Newspapers.
This co. was formed to carry both the
“Sun” and “Evening News” of Sydney,
formerly owned by separate and entirely in-
dependent cos. By purchase the “Daily Tele-
graph” (now “Pictorial”) and “Guardian”
have been led into the same stable, whose
string now therefore includes “Sun,” “Even-
ing News,” “Pictorial,” “Guardian,” with
Sunday editions of the “Sun,” “Pictorial”
and “Guardian” and half a dozen or so
weeklies.
For many years Sun Newspapers enjoyed
extraordinary favor on the market, especi-
ally in Sydney. After the reconstruction in
1920, when three pound shares paid to 17s.
6d. were handed out for every pound share
previously held, a run of 11.1 p.c. divs. was
paid, followed by two at 13.3 p.c. aud then
15.5 p.c. last year, when the scrip went
to 60s.
The wisdom of some of the co.’s recent pur-
chases is not apparent. The “Daily Tele-
graph” had fallen into disfavor, and the
change in its form and character had not
won back its lost prestige. For over a year
the “Sun” published it under contract for
a co. in which the “Sun” and the old share-
holders were interested; then, more money
being needed to carry on, the old shareholders
withdrew, and the “Pictorial” with the
“World’s News” became wholly a member of
the “Sun” group. The “World’s News” con-
tinued to be a small profit-earner, but the
daily, it is understood, was not able to show
a profit. Satisfied, nevertheless, that there
should be large profits in a paper to com-
pete with the “S. M. Herald” —with which
the “Sun” group has never been friendly—the
latter proceeded to strengthen its position
by lately buying the “Guardian.” It is
now running the two pictorial morning
papers side by side, and it is doubtful
whether the profits on the one are more than
meeting the losses on the other. It is also
running the “Sun” and the “Evening News”
side by side. The “Sun” continues highly
profitable ; the “Evening News” is probably
showing less profit than when it was taken
over.
The co. has no cause to complain about
circulation. Even the “Pictorial,” the lamest
duck of the flock, seems to have largely in-
creased its reading connection. But adver-
tising is hard to get, and circulation is not
profitable. A £>enny isn’t a penny when
more than one-third of it is taken out for
agent’s commission; and unsold returns bring
in nothing at all.
In view of the increase of nearly 100 p.c.
in the cost of newsprint and of large in-
creases in labor, power and other costs, many
—perhaps most —papers put up their price,
either during the war or since. In Mel-
bourne the charge is 14d., in Adelaide lid.,
in Brisbane 2d. Several attempts have been
made in Sydney to secure common action
among the dailies in raising the price to lid.,
but all have failed. Recently exchange diffi-
culties have added to costs, so the former
efforts at united price-raising have been
renewed. The “S. M. Herald’s” position
with regard to advertising is so strong, how-
ever, that it has thus far not been possible
to persuade the proprietary that a change is
necessary or even desirable. An effort was
made to induce the authorised newsagents
to bring pressure to bear on the “S. M.
Herald,” but it also came to nothing.
In that connection it is understood that the
“Sun” group has under consideration the
setting up of its own agents. The reply of
the “S. M. Herald” to that is to make pre-
parations for the issue of an afternoon paper
from the “S. M. Herald” office so that exist-
ing newsagents may be able to supply their
customers with both morning and evening
papers.
The market, which has had an inkling of
a probable conflict, has been a good deal agi-
tated during the past week. Associated
Newspapers, which were quoted at par or a
bit better in Dec., had dropped back to
16s. 6d. at the week-end. Paid capital is
£3.496,281 in 1,429,978 7 p.c. cum. prefs.
and 2,060,303 ords. The ords. mostly repre-
sent goodwill.
Holden’s Dividend Reduced.
This week Holdens, the motor-body build-
ers, will pay, a ; n interim 2% p.c. on the ords.
as against 5 p.c. in March last year. Enough
Was earned to pay the higher rate, but the
board, which sees difficulties ahead, decided
to strengthen the co.’s finances. The decision
was unexpected, hence the sharp drop in the
price of the scrip, which receded from 225.
a few weeks ago to 15s. at last, week-end.
At, the latter figure the return is 6.6 p.c.
on a 5 p.c. div. basis. Two years ago the
price touched 50s.
Chief fear is that drastic restriction of
imports and exchange and other difficulties
will be quickly reflected in the sale of
motor-cars, and thus reduce Holden’s turn-
over, notwithstanding that the co. recently
received new contracts for Chrysler and
Hupmobile bodies.
The co. is a noteworthy example of the
proper use of the tariff in fostering the
growth of an Australian industry. Out-
standing features of the business have been,
and still are, the enterprise of the manage-
ment and its vigorous war against produc-
tion costs. Some glittering results have been
achieved, but more was put by than was dis-
tributed ; thus the £1,174,000 of paid capi-
tal, including 300,000 A and 250,000 B
8 p.c. cum. prefs., had the assistance of
£573,075 of surplus earnings at June 30 last.
Nevertheless, when the money is nearly all in
fixed assets and everything is planned on a
mass-production basis, plant needs to be
kept busy if good profits are to be won.
At the moment chairman E. W. Holden
is in England, or on his way there, and more
might be heard about the co.’s activities in
other directions when he returns.
Dunlop-Perdriau Slack.
Slackness in turnover _ and overcrowded
stock shelves were the whispers heard in the
market when the Dunlop-Perdriau co. de-
clared an interim div. at the rate of 6 p.c.
last week. The staff has been reduced, and
the Rapson factory (presently expected to
be taken over by Dunlops) has been shut
down for a while owing to overproduction.
The price of the scrip fell sharply from
around par to 18s.; at the latter figure the
return is 6.6 p..c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
In March, 1927, Dunlop’s ords. were at 345.
in the market; then rubber prices crashed,
the co. registered a loss and the scrip could
be had at a few pence above par. After
that the price fluctuated while the merger
with Perdriau’s was being arranged. When
the Barnet Glass co. came in Dunlop’s ords.
recovered to 295., and remained thereabouts
until Sept, last, since when bids have con-
sistently shortened.
The co. has a very capable management
and extensive goodwill. Also the fact that
the trade is now practically ill the hands
of two organisations—Dunlops and Good-
year—ought to mean much so far as profit
earning is concerned. The co. has, however,
£4,694,151 of capital to feed, including
£930,000 of 10 p.c. cum. prefs. The latter
are fairly steady around 275.
Bulolo Gold Dredging, Ltd.
This, Placer Development’s first-born, is
the co. which is to take over and work about
41 miles of Bulolo River flats, recently
acquired bv the prospecting parent from
Guinea Gold after thorough testing. Like
the parent it is a dollar co. registered m
Vancouver, but chief interest in the scrip is
in Sydney. Nominal capital is in 800,000
shares of five dollars each, of which 476,000
are offered, the parent takes 224,000 paids
and the other 100,000 are in pickle. The
cost of equipping the property is figured at
£439,506; the other £50,206 asked for in cash
goes to the vendor, who is also entitled to
a further £74,280 out of profits.
There are 40,000,000 c.y. of dirt, some
of it previously tested by Coldham and
checked by Tom Horton to go 2s. 6d. per
yard, which has been close-bored by L. A.
Decoto and Louis Joubert to average 2s. Id.
a yard to a depth of around 22ft. Bedrock
is mostly soft blue clay containing small
quartz, and is fairly even. At the upper or
southern end the wash gets heavy, and there
are some fair-sized boulders, but elsewhere
physical conditions are said to offer no diffi-
culties to a dredge. Two machines with
10 c.f. buckets are to be employed ; together
they are scheduled to turn over 3,400,000
c.y. a year, so there is 12 years’ work
measured up, with, roughly, another million
yards of pay dirt around the edges of the
area. Power will be produced by a hydro-
electric plant to be put up by the co. on the
spot.
All-in working costs are figured at 7|d.,
leaving a net profit of Is. 51d. a yard, or
£245,000 p.a. I>ivs. of 10 p.c. for the first
year and 28 p.c. p.a. thereafter are men-
tioned, allowing also for the return of capi-
tal (£720,164) out of accumulated profits
compounded at 5 p.c.
The transport problem, hitherto a stumb-
ling block, is to be attacked by aeroplane.
Dredge and other equipment is to be .par-
celled .into lots of 70001 b. or less and carried
by tri-motored, all-metal machines bought
by the co. and operated by Guinea Airways,
Ltd. The flight from Salamoa to the field
takes about 30 minutes. To have built a
road (90 miles) would have cost £225,000
or more, and meant a delay of over a year
in getting a start at the real business.
The co. has gone about things in the right
way. Provided air transport proves success-
ful, and there is no reason to suppose that
it will not, prospects appear to be good.
Down stream from the area now being
floated Placer has several miles of untested
river flats about which more will probably
be heard in the future.
Both lead and zinc seem determined to find
out where the bottom of the market is: zinc,
whose average for last year was £24 17s. Bd.
—and that was £5 below the five-year aver-
age—has thudded to £lB 6s. 3d. spot. Lead,
£23 4s. lid. last year, is back to £2O 3s. 9d.,
which is more than £7 below the five years’
average. Hardly an outlying mine on _ the
Barrier field has the heart to keep going:
the Monarch, Rising Sun and White Leads
are among those that have just been granted
exemption. The effect is the same, of course,
in Tasmania. There the Magnet has thrown
in the towel.
J M. White, general manager of Ratrut
Basin, had a chat with Sydney shareholders
about the Sichon property, the other day.
Matters have not gone as well as was
expected since the change-over from the old
holdings near Renong was made, and sus-
pension of dividends and a debenture issue
were found necessary. The mine profit for
1929, the g'.-m. reported, would be over
£28,000, most of it made during the second
half of the year. Costs were 9d. to lOd. a
yard, a high figure due to low yardages from
difficult ground. No. 1 dredge did well in
the circumstances; No. 2, in spite of strik-
ing cemented country and having to work
back through tailings portion of the time,
made good average recoveries. Both dredges
suffered so far as their digging gear was
concerned, but were otherwise in good con-
dition. Returns were well up to boring esti-
mates. Better times are promised when freer-
ground is reached.
Ratrut will, no doubt, overcome its diffi-
culties, but to the public the failure of the
boring experts to discover the area of bould-
ered and cemented ground, which has caused
all the trouble, is not easy to understand.
Indeed, the ground was described as easy ;
the added information in the original boring
report that only 30 per cent, of the bores
bottomed might have had something to do
with this erroneous estimate.
# s t ;
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
[Transferred from Service Dept.)
(1) If a co. pays a div. and gives share-
holders the chance to ■exchange the div. for
shares, is that stock watering? (2) At
what point is a co. over-capitalised? Can
it be over-capitalised when it owes money to
a bank for current requirements, apart from
mortgage? —sl7B.
(1) Stock watering is an elastic term.
F. R. Stead (“Business Balance-sheets”)
says “watered” means that “the nominal
amount of capital is higher than the actual
worth of the assets,” and Funk and Wagnalls
seem to correctly state the majority opinion:
“To water is to enlarge the . number ot
shares without increasing the paid-in capital
in proportion.” Therefore if profit has been
made and is still represented by assets, the
issue of shares paid to the extent of the
profit is not watering.” (2) Depends mainly
upon the frequency with which the bank
has to be leaned upon. A co. could be over-
capitalised and still have an occasional o.d.
Can I bring Commonwealth bonds issued
in London to Australia■ and draw interest on
same here? What, regulations would I have
to comply with? —5149.
The Commonwealth Bank (which looks
after interest payment, transfers, etc.) pro-
vides no facilities for registration of such
transfers. Interest would still be payable
in London, and must be transferred to Aus-
tralia by the holders. It may be stupid—in
present circumstances is stupid—but there
is the fact.
I have about £lOO in English notes. (1)
What are they worth in Australia? (2) If
they are not worth £3 7s. G d. above their
face value (the exchange rate on London),
why not? —5213.
(1) About 355. p.c. premium. (2) Money
is made available in London at £3 7s. Gd.
premium on cable advicq. The notes must
be sent to England; and while they are
travelling they are earning nothing. So
deductions have to be made from the
£3 7s. Gd. to cover interest, postage and
insurance. Also possible changes in the
exchange market have to be allowed for.


w
ith proved reliability
Pontiac offers unusual
mechanical excellence.
w
JUDGE motor cars, if you will, by their
reputation and service records, or judge
them according to the number and excellence
of their mechanical features ... in either case
Pontiac’s clear cut supremacy in its field will
be strikingly apparent.
Throughout the motor trade as well as
amongst its owners, Pontiac is known as a
reliable car. Month after month it gives
trouble-free service, rarely needing more
than the most superficial attention, and
scarcely ever requiring
replacements.
And if you would
study its mechanical
features, the basis of
much of its reliability
would be revealed.
There are, for instance,
the thermostatically
controlled cross-flow
radiator, keeping the
Features that establish
Pontiac’s supremacy
Two hundred-cubic-inch L-head engine—
G-M-R cylinder head—Fully counter-weighted
crankshaft —Airplane type interchangeable
bronze-backed bearings —Harmonic Balancer
—Cross-flow radiator —Automatic tempera-
ture control —inch carburetor including
an internal economizer and an accelerating
pump —Petrol pump, in place of the con-
ventional vacuum tank—Patented expansion-
type piston pins—Full-pressure lubrication—
Crankcase ventilating system.
engine always at the correct operating tem-
perature, the adjustable full-pressure oil
system ensuring proper lubrication, the
crankcase ventilating system, which contin-
ually removes the water which may find its
way into the engine oil, and the aircraft-type
interchangeable bronze-backed bearings,
offering unusually long life.
There is a Pontiac dealer near you who
will be glad to demonstrate Pontiac’s
mechanical excellence,
and to show you how
this ensures long and
reliable service. He
will also explain the
value of the General
Motors Warranty, and
tell you of the conven-
ient purchase scheme
available under the
G.M.A.C. Terms Plan,
«4
PONTIAC
►
it’s a GENERAL MOTORS car look inside and note the difference l


<*WL
*8
2=S
BOTTLED
guaranteed
Sc
•3A. GILBEV
'«ooucc o r England
1 =
1
s»f>.
s
* Vleiu
GIN englandl
Qcßi.ry -CasHe OE UNSWEETENED#//? DtfdW
from unmalted Corn and rectify
af VY df A Gilbey* DisHlle r y Has Hie
delicate flavorot the Jumper berry
He«ore - 6botHcs contain approximately one iailon
s*
is®
Cohiu,/s; N ET. I PINT 6jOZS
produce. of England
A
Ha
7A>
gin
R - from SIR CHARLES a CAMERON
’•'dent Snd
CoT/eoe o f Surqeon
ctr^jCh
W A« lyi edL
Hit .. . .i
. . *** '° l^ c sloct of ihaf orhcle inrtitsfo»tiof [Oeaio'd'^rjiilty
ir lnd CasHeOEGIN
<ai<a' +* 6 P -o^l * <i<r.iw '“ h ° fcs T?T,^
*'W» «*Kr J. his Q ln Will &n e*c*lknt ti** era *
n,n i’ 4t, ' r <*<*» of J unt pftr berMe*
A Stoned CiWLcS A CA ,V| £COW
PROOuCC. En6l“NO --
BY APPOINTMENT
TO H.M.THE KING
Ai
°r.
*O.
*>"r>.
«V </•
-
4jv
tb
e /> 7 o/*
°tb
e^tb,
ŵ
ẁ
NO INCREASE
IN PRICE
DRY OIIN


ADELAIDE’S
Most Modern Hotel
THE
HOTEL BOTANIC
NORTH TERRACE, CITY.
Delightfully Situated
Garden Frontage
Balcony Rooms
All Latest Appointments.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
u
n
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadtields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and ! Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W.
Foundries 1 Bassendean. Berth, W.A.
Branch ( 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Office J T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q.
When you come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher’s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike.
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
Bed and
wakfast
. Tariff i
if desired /
Special tariff or inclusive terms.
ft
HOTEL
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel.” Sydney.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
THE QUALITY POLISH
KIWI
“JOURNEY’S END—AND NOW I WONDER WHY
I MADE IT.”
“Eureka”: Where there are few trees bees
will riest anywhere. Evidence of this fact
may be seen on the foreshores of Botany
Bay (N.S.W.). Near the Leprosy Lazaret
there are two bees’ nests in the crevice of a
rock which is only a few feet above high-
tide level; within the Coast Hospital grounds
in the same locality* there is a bees’ nest in
a rabbit burrow, the bees having driven the
rabbits out; another nest is in the clocK
tower right alongside the hospital kitchen
and within two feet of the clock mechanism,
others made persistent attempts to establish
themselves in the wall of the operating
theatre, but an unsympathetic staff drove
them out with the fumes of awful drugs.
* * * *
“E.H.S.”: We were camped on a bluff
overlooking a far-northern river which flowed
through the flats between the camp and the
high banks on the opposite. side
Every morning about sunrise
flights of teal, black- and wood-
duck, magpie-geese and a few
swans and pelicans honked and
whistled past on the way to their
feeding grounds up stream, re-
turning at nightfall to their
roosting places on the, reefs and
mud-flats at the mouth of the
river. The telegrqpli line we
were building passed over the
river a short distance from our
camp, and the morning after we
finished stringing the wires across
we were amazed to find dozens
of dead and mutilated birds scat-
tered over the flat, some of them
minus their heads while others
were short of a wing. In one
case a swan which had a wing
torn off was still alive, and we
picked up crippled birds for
several days afterwards. There
were about a dozen casualties on
the second night, but after that
the birds flew high and gave the
line a wide berth.
* * * $
“F.W.”: A cat that came to
our camp near Surat (Q.) had
a family of four, hardy little
chaps who were soon running
around. One day a yell from my
mate brought me to the back of
the tent. There I saw a huge
goanna that had apparently gone
mad. It looped the loop, did its
best to turn itself inside out, and
performed many other gymnastic
feats, stopping every now and
again to contort his tummy. He
was clearly trying to get rid of
something he’d swallowed. The
circus came to an end when he
ejected one of the kittens. Look-
ing maliciously at his tormentor,
the youngster humped his back
and spat, and then fled to the
scrub. Except for some scars on
his head and hips Puss is none
the for dotog the Jonah act
Hi
“Gumblegubbin”: I was
crouched under a shelving
rock during a shower, and
close in front of my shelter
was an ants’ nest. To keep
the rain from entering the
citadel, three ants jambed
themselves in the main en-
trance, head downwards.
Along came a belated gleaner
with a grass seed, which he
wanted to get into the store
in a hurry. Finding the
door barred, he ran around
it two or three times as if
demanding admittance. Then
he put the grain down, seized
one of the doorkeepers by
the leg, and pulled back with
all his might. For a moment
there was no result; then
suddenly the bunch loosened
at once, and turned excitedly
on the miscreant. While
two of them appeared to
be demanding angrily what
he meant by interfering with
them while in the execution
of their duty, the other one
seized the grain and dived
down below with it. An-
other ant came up to see
why the roof was leaking;
and the cause of the trouble,
observing that the door was
now open, hurried to get the
seed he had put down. Then
there wrns another row.
With waving antenna and
working jaws, he seemed to
accuse the doorkeepers of
stealing his provender. The
doorkeepers made for the
hole, and found it blocked
by another trto that had
been ordered up by the coun-
cil. ‘When I left the dis-
turber was paddling about
in the mud, still'looking for
the seed, and the two that
had lost their job were
crouching miserably in the wet.
* * * *
“Twin Saws”: Bill, aged nine, lives in
our street. He spent his holidays in the
country, and a ■ few days after he got back
I saw him with several mates chasing a fat
boy. Vainly the plump one tried to escape.
Uttering weird yelps, they ran him down
and fell upon him. One of the attackers
lifted up the victim’s leg whilst Bill lovingly
ran his hand over the quarry’s ribs. _ “He’ll
do,” he announced, and drawing a piece of
hoopiron from his pocket began to saw at
the throat of the unfortunate youth, who
kicked vigorously. I thought it_ time to
interfere, so I scattered the lot with a few
well-directed slaps. “You get away,” said
Bill indignantly. “I’m killing a sheep, and
these are my dogs.” Hurling invectives and
OVER THE ODDS.
LOCAL PREACHER (who hasn’t known when to stop ): “Brethren, I bain’t blind. I can
see ’ee lookin’ at tha watches, without ’ee putt-tin’ ’em up to the ears av ’ee.”
mud after me; the mob showed its disappro-
val while I beat a hurried retreat. I ex-
pected some gratitude from the sheep, but
lie was the worst of the lot.
* * * *
“Copabella” : It is one of the conventions
of the bush that women shall not be asked
to “kill” —except, perhaps, small deer like
fowls, the raising of which is a feminine
province. My knowledge of butchering was
elementary, but when I called at a selector’s
homestead and found two women about to
massacre the bi-weekly sheep simple polite-
ness obliged me to offer to take the unpleas-
ant duty off their hands. I still perspire
at the memory of that untidy murdering.
It speaks well for the native tact iff the
bushwoman that neither of the ladies so
much as pretended I was not as perfect a
tradesman as I was a little gentleman, and
their thanks sounded all the prettier by
reason of my knowledge that each was in
her own right a very expert mutton butcher.
* * * *
“Kianga” : The frogs round Lismore have
a sense of rhythm. When the train from
Sydney puffs laboriously on the up-grade, the
frogs seem to hear it about a mile away and
every frog in the roofs and gutters bursts
into chorus and keeps time with the train
till the sound dies away in the distance.
After that there is a pause and then they
resume their croakings, but not in rhythmic
unison.
* * * *
“Tamornie”: Mrs. Tamornie’s frequent
complaints about H,C.L. cause me to earn-
estly wish that we were again residing on
the south-west coast of New Britain. There
we could live almost entirely upon the pro-
ducts of the sea and land, faring in a style
which to emulate here would be utterly
beyond our means. Ordinarily ours was a
simple menu, but when occasion demanded
we could command rock oysters, sea-urchin
flesh soaked in lemon-juice; troclius-meat
soup or pigeon soup; fish wrapped in banana
leaves and baked on the coals; pigeon or wild
duck stewed in cocoanut milk; steamed busli-
fowl stuffed with yams ; leg of pork baked in
a stone oven, with young chilli leaves, yams
and stewed grated pineapple; pawpaw and
sour-sop salad; seaweed jelly flavored with a
vanilla bean or granadilla soaked in port
wine, with cream squeezed from a freshly
grated cocoanut; cheese made from the milk
of the old nannygoat; coffee from our own
trees and cigars rolled from tobacco grown
by one of the boss boys. The Avhole of the
foregoing, with the exception of the duck and
pigeon, were obtained within 200 yards of
the house, at the cost of three cartridges and a
few sticks of tobacco, say two shillings in all.
“Gouger” : George Ellis, now at Moleton,
on the Dorrigo, put up a record of endurance
and initiative lately. One night he was tim-
bering a shaft 50 feet up from the bottom.
The staging gave way and he went down
into the water, breaking his leg. After a
desperate battle he climbed up the shaft
150 feet on ladders, then dragged himself
half a mile,through the bush to his home.
His wife hurried out and under Ellis’s direc-
tion fashioned splints of stiff bark. Hus-
band and wife worked with sc ssors, toma-
hawk, knife, string and home-made bandages.
No doctor was called in and now Ellis’s leg
is as good as new.
* * * *
“Bacalao”: Apropos “Macquarie’s” par.
(B. 12/2/’3O). Whilst engaged on board
the P. S. N. Co.’s liner Orcoma in 1911 I
was unfortunate enough to have the fingers
of my right hand smashed in a water-tight
door. On arrival at Liverpool these were
trimmed by a young medico at the Great
Northern Hospital. The third finger, which
was amputated below the first joint, has
grown a nail, similar in appearance to a
chicken’s claw, and is so strong it has to
be cut with a pair of wire pliers. I have
since been informed that part of the quick
must have been left behind during the origi-
nal trimming.
* * * *
“Alex.”: For an outsize in stings, old-time
packers on the Cooktown-Bloomfield road
nominate the trees growing at the foot of
Stuckey’s Gap. When pack traffic along
this route was brisk, packers kept the under-
growth bordering the track clear of these
noxious trees. But despite care they often
lost a valuable pack animal. Contact with
the stinging-trees sent them careering madly
through the scrub, to drop dead from the pain
of the sting and the violence of their efforts.
Stung across the arms when he dismounted
to straighten a loose mailbag, a Cooktown-
Bloomfield mailman recovered from the
effects of the sting in the Cooktown Hospi-
tal three weeks later. In a semi-conscious
state he had struggled back to the top of
the Gap. where a party of tin-miners hurried
him to Cooktown and medical attention.
(Continued on page 25.)
A QUIET SORTER BLOKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dad never wos a bloke to bandy words or
make a row, ' ■ -
An’ ’ow ’e ever pulled us through ’as got me
wonderin’ now.
I never ’eard the ole man moan about ’is
rotten luck —
An’ cripes! there’s been a time since then
I’ve prayed fer ’alf ’is pluck!
I’ve seen ’im standin’ tall and grim, jest
starin’ straight ahead,
When drought ’ad withered all our crop an’
arf’ the stock was dead.
Then in ’is quiet way ’e’d say, “It gives a
bloke the creeps—
But times’ll change; and, anyway, we’re on
the place for keeps.”
’E’d stand an’ watch with tired eyes th’
river flats in flood,
An’ see a year’s ’ard graft become a ragin’
sea of mud.
’E’d never squeal or let you see ’is ’eart
was nearly broke—
Dad never was th’ sort that ’ad much time
fer those ’oo croak.
When things was good ’e’d often ’elp the
lame dogs on their way—
An’ crimson dingoes who’d forget they ’ad a
debt to pay.
But, some’ow, Dad ’e didn’t seem t’ under-
stand that breed,
’Cause all ’is life ’e’d follered what ’e called
a white man’s creed.
’E died an’ if ole Peter takes to blokes that’s
full of fight
I’ll bet ’e swung those gates an’ bowed the
ole man in perlite.
A quiet bloke who fought damned ’ard against
’is rotten luck —
Since ’e ’as gorn there’s many times I’ve
prayed for ’alf ’is pluck!
N.S.W.
D. McM.


The Tractive, Non-Skid
Grip of the Goodyear
All-Weather Tread Tyre
assures Safety and Com-
fort on every road.


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers’
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
I
SILVER. CAP
rolS
S»WVfR
dry gin
In the square
glass bottle with
the Green label
352 YEARS’
EXPERIENCE
guarantees
its quality
w
Weight
and
Quality
are factors in the
value of the stock. But purchasers’ business is to
Duy as cheaply as possible. Winchcombe Carson’s
business as salesmen is to see that their clients get
full value. And in that regard they are consistently
successful. Their energy, knowledge and determina-
tion in making sales are a complete safeguard for
owners’ interests.
CONSIGN CATTLE, SHEEP, LAMBS, TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Homebush Yards,
Sydney,
or
Enoggera Yards,
Brisbane.
“Pomegranate”: Among the allegedly
“silvertail” jobs of the Outback is that of
station book-keeper. Its lucky possessor
lives “inside,” is (sometimes) entitled to the
honorific Mister, and enjoys a 1000-to-l
chance of marrying Miss Sheepshanks. I
have been a station book-keeper. That
meant that I butchered for the homestead,
carried out rations, brewed sheep drench,
ran meat and bread to a Government nawy-
HER MISTAKE.
MRS. ORPINGTON: “You missed a bonser fight while you were in
th’ next yard.”
MR. LEGHORN: “Missed nothing! I met the winner on his way
home.”
ing job on the eastern boundary (14 miles
from homestead), hauled winter firewood,
bagged for chaffcutter, killed and cured bacon,
mixed rabbit poison, picked fruit, carted hay,
blacksmithed rabbit-cart shears, pressed dur-
ing shearing season, dipped sheep and fed
stalled horses. At night I ran the post office
and store, and I book-kept only when the
bank roared for accountancy details. (Yes.
I married Miss Sheepshanks.)
* * * *
“Copabella”: Padding from job to job, I
met a fresh-faced choom in charge of a
spring-cart and a huge half-draught mare
with the size and gait of an elephant. In
the cart were two hhrdwood paddock gates.
I was glad to accept his cheery “Have a
lift?” And then sorry. The mare was an
ambler when in repose and a canterer when
moved, so the cart pitched and tossed alarm-
ingly. “She’s really a hack,” explained
Choom with gentle pride, indicating the mare.
(The awful creature was quite 7ft. tall and
built like a locomotive boiler.) We left the
track and jogged across country, dodging
logs and dug-out rabbit warrens. “Road’s
holey,” said the driver; “might lose me
gates.” I clung like a fly to the gate-frames,
which filled the cart body and bounced and
returned like a tethered ball. “Bit’v a dip
coming,” warned Choom; “better move up
to the tail”-—he was standing on the front
board with his calves braced against the cart-
rail—“she might go over, V y’ wouldn't get
caught that way, perhaps!” We bumped
over a scarp down which the vast mare gal-
loped with the gates (and me) leaping be-
hind like lambkins in spring. When we
touched ground again at the foot of the glacis
I dropped off. “Hi!” bawled Choom; “y’
ain’t half there yet!” But I’d had enough.
* * * *
“Lucerne Flea” : Even in these days when
Government bureaus work overtime to teach
farmers veterinary science one sometimes
sees a horse with a scrap of red rag hung to
his collar, “to keep away the bots.” My dad
used to tell a yarn about the origin of this
superstition. The hero of the legend was an
old Afghan hawker in S.A., who had dozens
of yards of red turkey twill left on liis
hands. After a lot of hard thinking he hung
strips of the stuff round his horses’ necks.
At every farm he visited lie was bound to be
asked, “What are the red rags for?” which
was his cue to reply with deep fervor: “My
word—that keep away botfly." Inside a week
he was telegraphing to Adelaide for further
supplies of turkey twill.
* -i * *
“Pick”: In a tenement in Sydney’s Dar-
linghurst a family of fox-terriers have been
jealously guarded and efficiently tuckered by
the 15-old-months progeny of a former litter.
When the pups were four days old the
mother, out gossiping, was killed in the
street by a motor. At once the elder sister
voluntarily took on the duties of guardian
and provider for the orphans, and in a day
or two she developed a milk flow sufficient
for the needs of the starving whimperers.
The infants thus strangely nurtured were
soon fat and healthy, and they are now
approaching doghood. But at the stage
when pups usually are abandoned by their
parent the self-imposed foster-mother reso-
lutely declines to relinquish her maternal
task and fights savagely if anyone seeks to
handle her charges.
* * * *
“Kell”: The worst testimonial I ever heard
given at a horse sale was when a number of
ancients impounded
from the roads were
being offered in a
North Coast
(N.S.W.) town.
Portrait photo-
graphy was at the
time experiencing
one of its transient
booms. Women
trooped into the
only studio in town
and often dragged
protesting males
along. The photo-
grapher was among
the men lining the
saleyard fence, and
when all other
blandishments
failed to elicit a
bid for a particu-
-lar 1 y forbidding-
looking ruin, the
auctioneer turned
on the man of
pyro. “Now, Bill,
he said, “this’d be
very handy for you.
Give me a bid.”
“What do I want
with a horse ?”
queried the photo-
grapher in surprise.
“Don’t any of your
clients ever want
their photographs
taken on horse-
back?” said the
auctioneer. “Of
course they do. Where will you ever get a
better photographer’s horse than this one?
H'e’ll never spoil a plate by moving.”
w * * *
“F.S.”: The Adelaide and Melbourne
museums have come in for a windfall in
extraordinary circumstances. Owing to the
appeal of a native missioner to choose
between Christ and the churinga, the Aruntas
of Central Australia have been divulging the
hiding-places of their ancestral emblems and
handing them in. The churinga is a phallic
symbol executed in stone, and in it are said
to reside all the reproductive powers of the
tribe. In some tribes if a woman came on
one accidentally she was liable to death, and
unless she was touched by it she was unable
to conceive. There was an uproar, which
had an echo in the S.A. Parliament, when it
was disclosed that D. H. Dureau, a member
of a recent Reso tour, had purchased several
specimens and brought them to Melbourne,
One politician likened it to the theft of the
HE’D MET ’EM BEFORE.
SAILOR: “And the next flamin’ minute we struck a reef.”
PROSPECTOR: “Yes, I know — an’ some blighter jumped your claim, an ’now you want
me to shout you a drink.”
Monna Lisa from the Louvre. But for a
long time the stone talisman has been falling
into disrepute, and for that the railway and
the Ford rather than a change of religion,
are responsible.
* * * *
“Tamornie”: When the thermometer climbs
over the century in a spot where ice isn’t
procurable, common washing soda makes a
good beer-cooler. Take a double handful of
soda, crush it fine and stir it into about
two gallons of water in a bucket. Stir
briskly, as the more quickly the soda is
dissolved the cooler the solution. Place the
bottles in this and leave for about 20 minutes.
I learned the trick in German New Guinea,
years ago, when a cask of soda was con-
sidered by every German planter to be essen-
tial to his comfort.
* # * *
“Shypoo”: In London last Christmas a
very fine platypus rug, made from about 50
exquisite skins of this rare creature, was
offered at 300 guineas. Many years ago,
when the Lake George copper-mine (N.S.W.)
Was booming, I paid a visit of inspection, and
the superintendent showed me a rug made of
platypus skins, which was rarely beautiful.
He said the skins had all been obtained under
the banks of Lake George by two men he
employed to collect them. It is quite possible
this is the same rug—there can’t be very
many in existence.
■t * * #
“Carrick, A. 8.” : I’ve sailed with all sorts
of nasty cargoes—steel rails and machinery,
liable to break loose in a seaway and play
hell below, and timber treated with creosote,
which fills the ship with a food- and water-
tainting stench —but the worst lot was a
hold full of raw sugar. A few days out
from port all hands experienced an unquench-
able thirst, which rapidly increased to a
horrible, insatiable craving for something
sour. So great did the craving become that
we swallowed vinegar and neat lime-juice by
the quarter pint, and that gave only tem-
porary relief. This happened in the wind-
jammer days of my youth. Only young and
very green seamen signed on sugar ships
sober.
“Curlamo”: The safe which the Kelly gang
robbed at Jerilderie (N.S.W.) in 187!) is
still doing service. It is in the possession
of a Tocuinwal storekeeper, and may be seen
in his shop. The safe, which formerly be-
longed to the Bank of N.S.W., stands about
five and a half feet high. In view of the
prices less interesting Kelly relics have
fetched, this one should be pretty valuable.
* * * *
“Oollarinna”: Binghi can hold his own
with the Fijian and Malayan fire-walkers in
the matter of being impervious to burns. On
a recent morning my house lubra arrived to
light the kitchen fire, clad in her birthday
suit. “Where are you clothes, Mary?” I
asked. “Aw me burnem allabout las’ night,
me sleep too much close up longa fire, ’im
come up longa my dress, burnem dress,
burnem blanket, burnem me. Me too much
sleep, can’t hearem burn, only my mate ’im
sing out, wakem me, then me hearem fire,
lookout longa my leg, ’im burnem ploper,”
she answered, stepping into the lighted door-
way to show the burn. From the left buttock
to her knee was a burn, in places two inches
deep by four inches wide, and it seemed
incredible for her to have slept while the fire
burned her flesh, but such was the case.
Disdainfully she refused offers of “medicin”
or “rag to tiem up,” and continued her
duties. For a cure she went to the dogs.
For hours she lay in the camp and let
them lick the wound, which healed in a few
weeks.
“Murrungurry”: Scores of Australian
plants perpetuate the memory of botanists,
but in only one instance, so far as I know,
is an abo. similarly honored, though settlers
owed much of their early knowledge of the
bush and its vegetation to the first inhabi-
tants. Paspalum galmarra, a good,grass that
was first discovered on the Russell River
about 40 years ago, is named after Jacky
Jacky, the Hunter River abo. who accom-
panied explorer Kennedy on his ill-fated
expedition in 1848 and who led a party to the
rescue of the two survivors at Leewabinda,
near Weymouth Bay. Jacky’s aboriginal
name was Galmarra, which means maker of
songs. He was not only a songmaker, but an
author of corroborees, some of which were
adopted by tribes far north of his native
towri.
DROVING WEANERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If you fancy you’ve struck trouble when
you’ve punctured faith’s frail bubble,
And there’s nothing left but stubble where
the sweetest wild oats grew;
When your flapper’s love has left you with
your manhood all bereft you,
And the axe of care has cleft you and
you’re landed in the stew.
You are wrong, quite wrong, old chappie.
You’re comparatively happy
Till you’re saddled with a snappy mob
of weaners on the track.
Then you’ll taste of melancholy far more
bitter than youth’s folly
Or the treachery of Molly when she jilted
you for Jack.
You will wallow in self-pity till your soul
is black and gritty,
You will curse aloud and pretty often till
your voice is done;
You will spur your nag and mumble as you
feel the blighter stumble,
Down from man’s estate you’ll tumble as
those weaners start to run;
As they fan out through the mallee and the
blanky dogs w r on’t rally,
As they straggle up a valley and meander
dow-u a stream,
As you chase some through a clearing, and
then hunt them backward, fearing
There’s a fit of madness nearing—and you
want to jump and scream.
Love’s what-might-have-been won’t haunt you
and the stiffest log won’t daunt you
When those flaming weaners flaunt you
and then giggle in your face;
When your horse’s strength is flagging and
your spirit’s weak and sagging,
And their blanky tails are wagging as they
dash from place to place.
Oh, you’ll get but little pleasure and the
scantiest of leisure
Till you’ve got those beasties’ measure, and
they’re safely in the brake;
Once the calico’s around them you can curse
them and confound them—
Aye, and jump on them and pound them —
but you’ll spend the night awake!
QUEENSLAND.
SYD. SWAGMAN.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man (25), N.S.W., strong, willing worker,
wants job, farm or station, anywhere; can drive
truck. —4953.
Young woman, literary, N.S.W., offers mountain
change to literary person in exchange for correcting
MS., advising, etc. —4948.
Carpenter, N.S.W., wants job on station, repairs,
concrete work, painting, etc., 10 years’ exp. Refs.
—4932.
Young woman (30), N.S.W., own typewriter, wants
holiday engagement on station in March, cool climate
preferred, no salary. Light services.—4947.
Scot (27), N.S.W., graduate, wants position as
secretary or tutor, anywhere.—496B.
Capable lady, Sydney, wants, position housekeeper
or cashier. Able take charge of shop. Refs. —4979.
Refined M.L. girl with nursing experience seeks
position as travelling companion.—49Bs.
Married couple (no children) want job. Wife first-
class cook; husband poultry and garden and handy
man. A.I.F. Good refs. Anywhere.—49B9.
Jackeroo and bookkeeper (19), N.S.W., two years’
exp. present position on sheep station, wants job on
cattle station, N.S.W. or Q’land. —5006.
Lift-driver (25), Sydney, wants job. Active and
trustworthy.—s 025.
Author, Sydney, wants MS.,- about 25,000 words,
typed.—so7s.
Farmer with good property for lamb-raising, 100
miles from Sydney, wants partner.—sos 3.
W.A. prospector wants sleeping partner to put
up £lOOO to develop new find. —5035.
Scot (27), electrician, nine years’ experience motor-
cars and lorries, do any class repairs and black-
smithing, used to horses, wants job on Q’land station.
—5058.
Alert, intelligent Australian (19), well educated,
good worker, knowledge of bookkeeping, riding,
tractors, etc., wants job as jackeroo with up-to-date
grazier.—sos4.
Qualified accountant, young, married, wants job in
Fiji.—sol 4.
To buy second-hand portable gramophone. —4991.
To buy “Johnson’s Dictionary, 1755” ; Gould’s
Birds of Australia” ; “Tribes of Australia” ; “Science
and Health, 1875.”—4990.
To buy Brief Answers Columns Bulletin, Dec.,
1928, and Jan., 1929. —4958.
To buy photographs of Australian scenes; par-
ticularly Queensland. —4980.
To buy Finck’s “Success in Music” and Seashore’s
“The Psychology of Musical Talent.” —4955.
To buy “Joseph’s Dreams” (1923) and “Auld Shop
and the New” (1923), “Art in Australia,” any
numbers. “Back at Our Selection” (original edition),
“Letters from Queer-street” (1907), “Benno” (1911).
—4931.
To buy “John Halifax Gentleman” (1856), “Mid-
shipman Easy” (1836) ; “Moby Dick” (1851) and
“Scarlet Shawl” (1874). —4941.
To buy Louis Becke’s novels, 1894 onwards,
original editions (Unwin) and Melville’s “The
Whale,” 3 vols. (1851).—5072.
Words of verse by Henry Lawson beginning “One
New Year, 1891 or 2, I care not when.” —5051.
Words of “Wreck of Bvunkencungercrob.”—4962.
Words of “Three O’clock in the Morning,” “My
Isle of Golden Dreams” and “You Taught Me How
to Love You.” —-4950.
Information Sought.
I have acquired some fully-paid £5 shares
in the Phosphate Co-op. Co. Has it ever
paid a dividend? Present value, if any ? —
4897. . , .
The co. is purely co-operative and does
not pay divs. on shares. At the end of each
year tiie surplus profits are divided among
shareholders in proportion to their purchases.
The shareholder who gives no order gets no
benefits, except that he may/ receive interest
on money lent to the co. In cases where a
holder of shares ceases by cither death or
retirement from the business to be a user
of the co.’s products, every effort, we arc
assured, is made by the co. to transfer his
shares to another holder at par (£5).
The Commonwealth Agricultural Service
Engineers ( C.A.S.E .) Co. in liquidation ad-
mits owing me £75 for commission. What
chance have I of getting anything? —47l4.
The liquidation of this co. began on June
4, 1925, and is still proceeding. It has been
greatly delayed by the bad seasons in S.
Aus., where the co. chiefly operated, and so
far, after over four years, only preferential
creditors (mainly Commercial of Australia
and A.B.C. banks) have been paid anything.
Commission is an ordinary debt. No official
statement of probable realisations has lately
been made; but it is doubtful whether ordi-
nary creditors will get very much.
Has the 100 -h.p. air-cooled aero-engine
designed hy Harkness and Hillier, Sydney,
and said to he suitable for installation in
light aircraft, been officially tested yet? If
so, with what results? —4729.
Tests are proceeding. On the bench the
motor develops 110 h.p. at 2000 revs, per
min., and 105 h.p. at 1950 revs. It lias run
continuously for 25 hours without develop-
ing mechanical trouble. No certificate has
yet been issued.
Is there a one-stroke internal combustion
engine ? —1720.
An early type of engine known as “double-
acting” was introduced by Lenoir in which
the explosion took place on both sides of the
piston. In 1833 W- L- Wright introduced a
machine receiving two impulses- for every
revolution of the crankshaft, which was
-followed a few years later by a somewhat
similar invention by W- Barnett. The early
De Dion-Bouton engines were also double-
acting, but were replaced at the end of the
nineteenth century by the four-stroke
machine. The single-stroke type proved very
inefficient and is now quite discarded.
(1) Whereabouts in Australia are zircons
found? (2) What is their appearance?
(3) Approximate value? —4730.
(1) In gem sands and alluvial deposits,
widely distributed. The concentrated beach
sands along the north coast of N.S.W. con-
tain an appreciable amount. (2) They are
either crystallised or rounded, colorless, pale
red, pale yellow, grey, greenish or reddish
brown. (3) There are no fixed prices. Each
stone or parcel of stones is valued on its
merits. Very few of the zircons won in
N.S.W. are worth cutting as gems.
Is it a fact that the rent payable in the
first few years of a lease of certain classes of
land in (/land is “a peppercorn if deman-
ded?’' Who teas responsible for the intro-
duction of this piece of humor, and is there
any instance of the Government demanding
the peppercorn? —49B3.
The term “a peppercorn if demanded” is
embodied in Real Property Law throughout
the British Empire, and is an ancient and
picturesque way of asserting the principle
that no subject can claim absolute ownership
in land. In practice, a peppercorn is never
demanded.
I have noticed Afghans buying quantities
of asafnetida. What is the stuff, and what
is it used for? —4782.
It is a gum resin obtained by incision of
the living root of Narthex asafoetida, and
possesses stimulant and expectorant proper-
ties. It is useful in certain hysterical affec-
tions, epilepsy and other nervous diseases.
In India and Persia it is largely employed
as a condiment.
I read recently that the theory that inter-
stellar space is filled with ether has been
abandoned by scientists. If so, what theory
has supplanted it? —4904.
Leading astronomers consulted were not
prepared to say that the theory lias been
entirely abandoned, but in recent years it
has been questioned by scientists. No gener-
ally acceptable theory has been formulated
to take the place of the ether theory.
(1) What are the qualifications of a junior
or assistant purser? (2) Would a youth of
21 stand a chance of a job if he had a slight
knowledge of accountancy? (3) How is
application made, and where? (4) What is
the salary? —4B62.
(1) Good health, intelligence, pleasing
personality and some previous experience of
shipping work. (2) Too old to commence.
(3) Appointments are usually made from
the shore staffs of shipping cos. (4) No
fixed rate.
(1) What qualifications does one require
to obtain a position as a schoolteacher ■ with
Vic. Education Department? (2) Are there
any vacancies? —4959.
(1) To start with, a leaving certificate
from the University, after which a junior
teacher applicant has to pass through a
teaching course. (2) Write to secretary,
Education Department, stating age and
qualifications. There are no vacancies at
present except for specially qualified persons.
What is the most simple and easily applied
test for gold in the metallic state?— so34.
Color, combined with capability of being
flattened under the hammer; and capability
of being cut with a knife, with a resultant
bright metallic streak. Gold does not tar-
nish and is not affected by boiling in nitric
acid.
In a recent Bulletin personal paragraph
mention is made of “ Strindberg’s theory of
cycles.” What is this theory?-— 4407.
The allusion is not made in a scientific
sense. Strindberg in his autobiographical
works lays stress upon the fact that in late
life he was compelled to return to earlier
scenes and occupations, and he appears to
consider this a law of human existence.
(1) Van a bolder in a cricket match
change from left hand to right in the one
over? (2) Can he bowl half an over over
the wicket and the other half round it?
(3) If an umpire obstructs a ball that might
have reached the boundary can a batsman
claim the boundary? (4) Did Woodfull ever
captain the Test team in England? (5)
Did V. Y. Richardson ever play in England?
• —4905.
(11 and (2) Yes; but he should give the
batsman a chance to take fresh block. (3),
(41 and (5) No.
Nature and extent of Mussolini’s war
service? Was he ever in the Air Force? —
4702.
He volunteered, and became corporal in
the Bersaglieri. He showed great courage,
and was seriously wounded. He was not a
military aviator, but after the war lie quali-
fied as a civii pilot.
Has duty to bo paid here on goods from
New Guinea? —4647.
Yes; General Tariff rates apply except on
coffee, dried fruits (Litchi), fresh fruits (20
or more varieties), edible fungi, green ginger,
grain and pulse, cocoanuts (whole, pre-
pared, shelled or unshelled), and seeds
(kapok, sesame).
My small dog, 10 years old and hitherto
healthy, coughs a great deal and is losing
flesh. Can you suggest anything to relieve
him? —4840.
Old pet dogs are liable to the condition
described. A half-teaspoon of Parish’s chemi-
cal food once or twice daily in a little water
may help. Have the dog examined for
‘‘worms in the heart,” a trouble known to
occur in Queensland.
My Pom., a year old, has refused food
except for tiny scraps for two or three
weeks. His hindquarters seem stiff, and he
is quiet and dull. Treatment? —4B2B.
He is probably suffering from some intes-
tinal trouble. Dose with some laxative
medicine —a teaspoon each of syrup of buck-
thorn and castor oil. If necessary give an
enema of soap and warm water. And limit
his food supply when he returns to normal.
Overfeeding will produce symptoms of de-
pression, capricious appetite and constipa-
tion.
When a road is being made, fine material
ts spread over the top. Some call this
material “binding”; others, “blinding.”
(1) Which is right? (2) What word should
be used to signify the past tense? —4433.
(1) Fipe material spread over the top of
a macadam road during its construction is
to fill the voids in the coarser particles of
stone, and is therefore called “binding.” In
the case of old water-bound macadam roads,
the surface binding has sometimes become
drawn out by the adtion of motor-traffic; in
such circumstances, additional material is
sometimes placed on the road surface to
“blind” it. The words “binding” and “blind-
ing” are therefore both correct when used
in the right context. (2) “Bound” and
“blinded.”
Dates of origin of the following trades?
(1) Sheet-metal working; (2) fitting and
turning; (3) boiler-making; (4) plumbing;
(5) cop per smithing ? —4736-
(.1 and 2) About the end of the eighteenth
century. (3) With the steam-engine, the
earliest of which was built by Savery in
1698. The trade was firmly established at the
close of the eighteenth century as a result of
Watt’s patents. (4) Between 1600 and 1400
b.c., it is supposed. (5) It was known in
Egypt about 3500 b.c.
My persimmon-tree, 14 years old, is
dropping its fruit. Last year there was no
fruit, the year before a dozen, the year before
that four dozen. This year the fruit falls.
Microscopical examination shows no trace of
disease. What’s wrong?— 4B3l.
Probably the failure is due to the fact that
several varieties of the persimmon produce
only pistillate flowers (female) some years,
without the male organs or stamens. The
planting of one or more varieties of per-
simmon would be very helpful, but even then
there would be no guarantee that the tree
would invariably mature its fruit.
(1) Where could I obtain particulars re-
garding the method of becoming an officer
in the R.A.A.F.? (2) When will the next
batch of recruits for training for commis-
sioned rank be appointed? (3) Is competi-
tion very keen? —4773.
(1) Write Secretary, Air Board, Victoria
Barracks, Melbourne, and ask for R.A.A.F.
Publication No. 3: “Conditions of Entry to
Commissioned Rank in the Permanent Air
Force.” (2) It is anticipated that appli-
cations for cadetships at flying courses to be
held in 1931 for subsequent appointment to
sliort-service commissions will be invited in
July or August next. (3) Yes.
Our two children are insured for £375 each.
Premiums are £14,145. s d. and £l4 11s. lOd.'
Policies mature at 21. Bonuses should bring
each amount up to about £5OO. The children
were aged 2 years 4 months and 8 months
ufiien insured two years ago. Are we paying
too much? —so49.
Infant insurance is the poorest of all
insurance, because medical examination of an
infant is worth little and therefore the office
will not accept the risk of paying the total
amount of the policy in the event of death.
(Also for obvious reasons jjublic policy is
against such a. payment.) In the event of
death before 21 some offices return all pre-
miums paid with interest; others merely
return the premiums paid. Most offices will
accept ordinary risks from about 10 years
of age. If your children are healthy, take
the first opportunity of exchanging your
present policy for one with medical examina-
tion. Premiums quoted are not excessive.
I have a reproduction of a painting by W.
Russell Flint, “The Lemnians.” What is the
picture about? —4800.
The tablet attached to the original in the
National Art Gallery of N.S.W. reads “The
men of Lemnos having slighted the worship
of Aphrodite were caused by her to take unto
themselves as paramours certain Thracian
women captives. For this they were mur-
dered by their wives.”
What types of Queensland timbers have
bark suitable for tanning and in what dis-
tricts are they to be found? —4636.
The best tan barks in Q’land are obtained
from the green or ferny wattles ( Acacia
decurrens and vars.) which occur chiefly in
the Stanthorpe district and along the N.S.W.
border. All the wattles ( Acacia sp.) have
tannin in the barks in varying quantities.
The kino which exudes from the bloodwoods
( Eucalyptus sp.) contains about 80 per cent,
tannin. The bark of the ironbarks also
carries tannin in fair quantities. The red and
black mangroves yield a very red tannin:
these are mostly obtainable north of Mary-
borough.
What certificate is required to qualify for
a position as engineer in charge of a N.S.W.
shire electric lighting and pumping station?
When■ will the next examination for such
engineers be held? —47l3.
Full particulars (too lengthy to reprint)
are set out in Section 90a of the N.S.W.
Local Government Act 1919. Also clauses
28a, 28b, and 28c in ordinance No. 4, which
relates to the examination for and issue of
certificate to council electrical engineers
needs to be studied. Date of examination
has not been fixed, but will be advertised.
Further information can be obtained from
the Local Govt. Dept., Watson House,
Bligli-street, Sydney.
Is the quality of radio reception affected
by reversing the connections on the loud-
speaker ? —4856.
If the speaker is placed directly in the
plate circuit of tne last valve its positive
terminal should be connected to the positive
h.-t. battery, its negative terminal to the
plate of the valve. If this order is reversed,
the speaker magnet core will become de-
magnetised by the battery current and signals
will weaken. When an output filter choke
or transformer is used the speaker can be
connected up either way; in this case no
battery current passes through the speaker
windings. When a power valve is employed
in the last stage a coupling choke or trans-
former should be incorporated as a safe-
guard.
Does Anybody Know?
Author of quotation beginning: “It is
beautiful that Force should have Right for
a master.”—4977.
Brief Answers.
T.D.: (1) No; a gamble, with large risks
and pretty large chances. (2) Don’t know. (3) No.
(4) Most certainly not J. J.: To ascertain the
cubic content of tapered telegraph poles, find the
areas of the two ends (multiply square of radius
in inches by 3.1416) add together and divide by
two. Multiply this product by length in feet, and
divide. by 144. In the cases given the pole tapered
from 12in. to Bin., 30ft. long, has a content of
IV.OI cub. ft. The pole tapered from 14in. to 9in.,
35ft. long, has a content of 27.65 cub. feet N.L.:
A dam with top dimensions 50ft. by 30ft., base
80ft. by 60ft., height 9ft., would contain exactly
1000 cub. yards E.R.H.: To sustain the weight
of a 12st. man in distilled water, the wooden vessel
6in. square would have to be 10ft. 8 l-6in. long.
Salt waters vary in specific gravity, but all are
denser than distilled water... .E.V.T.: You pay off
£44 6s. of capital in the first year and at the
end of three years you will owe approximately
£156. You have omitted to state terms of repay-
ment of mortgage. .. .W.K.M.G.: (1) Total numbers
of railway employees (exclusive of construction
branches) in each State and the Federal Railways
at June, 1929, were as follows: N.S.W., 55,093 ;
Vic., 27,320 ; Q’land, 18,870; S.A., 8713; W.A.,
9188; Tas., 1595; Federal 1329. (2), (3) and
(4) Information is not recorded W.L.H.: It is
estimated that 8,919,292 men were killed in the
Great War. No detailed information is available as
to the losses of the Russian army from 1914 to the
peace of Brest-Litousk. The most probable estimates
give 1,700,000 dead, which are included in the
foregoing totals. No reliable records of the number
wounded exist.. ..S.J.M.: Sotadics or sotadic verse
reads backwards or forwards the same, as “Lewd did
I live, and evil I did dwel.” So called from Sotades
the inventor. The verses are also called palindromic.
. ...E.F.M.: Distance flown in last year’s Schneider
Cup race was 217.49 miles, over a circuit of 31.7
miles, lapped seven times W.H.8.: A lawn roller
made from an oil-drum filled with cement is on
the light side where the turf is thick, but it would
do for a young lawn. Size and weight must be deter-
mined by the grade of the slope where your lawn
is situated. Burns and Twigg, Ltd., Rockhampton,
Q’land, should be able to supply a water-filled roller.
.. . . J.C.: Your ticket did not draw a prize. Results
were published in- the “Sydney Morning Herald,”
Jan. 30, 1930. . . .C.R.L. : Chambers and Co. Pty., Ltd.,
16 Spring-street, Sydney, can give you information
regarding s.s. Luciston. . . .F.W.G.: “Kodak” (Ernest
O’Ferrall) never managed a theatre at Dallas, Texas,
U.S.A A.B. : Cider is not an excisable product,
and the making of it for home consumption is not
a breach of any excise 1aw....J.V.: Write Denyer
Bros., 267 George-street, Sydney W.A.8.: Local
journals are the “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” (monthly,
25.), 214 George-street, Sydney; and “Industrial
Australian and Mining Standard” (weekly, 6d.), 376
Flinders-lane, Melbourne. (2) British journals are:
“Mining Journal” (weekly, Bd.), “Mining Magazine”
(monthly, Is.), and “Mining World and Engineering
Record” (weekly, 6d.). Any bookseller could get
them for y0u....D.5.: Spirits made locally are sub-
ject to excise duty and its makers must be licensed.
In the circumstances we cannot advise as to the
technique of distillation.... V.A.G.: It would be
very difficult to secure employment with a wool firm
just now. . . .F.T.T.: Try Gordon and Gotch, Bar-
rack-street, Sydney C.A.G.: The present scale of
payment to non-official postmasters and postmistresses
has operated .since Jan. 1, 1927... .L.A.: The book
is worth about 20s T.D.: Write Old-age Pensions
Department, Repatriation Buildings, Chalniers-street,
Sydney L.C.C.: Write to the Under Secretary,
Dept, of Education, Regina, Saskatchewan, Canada.
Bega: No need to be alarmed. The parrot is
just amusing himself.... Glynde: The general prin-
ciple of injecting into rabbit burrows a poisonous gas
produced in an insulated fire-box is old, but without
a search of the patent records it is impossible to
say whether there is any patent covering details
which you may infringe by making a machine of
the type to which you refer Curious: A gamble,
not an investment. .. .V.M.: We wouldn’t take the
risk, even if they offered us twice 15 p.c C.S.:
Hang on. It always takes years for such concerns
to show results..'. .W.R.: Ask him for bank or
other references....E.J.B.: Not if you cant well
afford to lose A.L.: If safety is very important,
don’t V.W.L.: Yes, one of the best... .G. 0.8.:
(1) No; they are widely scattered. (2) Except as
to two cos., few coal shares are held outside Aus-
tralia ; figures are not .available for Broken Hill, but
as far as we can ascertain about one-third of the
shares are held abroad.... M. 8.: Dunlop and Co.,
Lane Cove-road, Crow’s Nest, Sydney, are the distri-
butors... .A. W.: From the N.S.W. Bookstall Co.,
Castlereagh-street, Sydney. Price, 25.... .E.8.M.N.:
Current market prices for Q’land “Victoria postage
stamps are as follows: Id. red and 2d. blue, 2s. per
thousand; 3d. brown, 4d. yellow, 4d. black, 6d.
green, 2s. per hundred. Fred Hagen, 184 Phillip-
street, Sydney, will purchase at these rates.,.. .S.J.M.:
Suggest you obtain list issued by N.S.W. Govt.
Tourist Bureau, Martin-place, Sydney, or insert a
small advt. in “Sydney Morning Herald” P.D.:
Freelance journalists working continuously at home
can claim deductions for office expenses, stationary
and postage in making up N.S.W. and federal
income-tax returns. The cost of textbooks is not
deductable, being regarded as a capital expendituie.
A.D.L.: Write to the Secretary, Association of
Musio-teachers of Vic., Ltd., Box J 513, G.P.0., Mel-
bourne E. 8.: If you spend the money you now
hold in building a home on your property, a full
pension wnuld be made available provided you ha.,
no other assets. A home is exempt, irrespective of
the value, if the pensioner resides permanently
therein....E.C.S.: If the property is sold and the
proceeds of the sale divided among the ehildien,
it will not be possible for an increased rate of
pension to be made available. The Invalid and
Old Age Pensions Act provides that moneys or
property transferred to children, without considera-
tion, cannot be recognised. If a sale takes place
the Pensions Office should be notified. ...U.G.:
Can’t advise you without full details C.R.A.D.:
(1) By application to the hon. sec., Dr. Barnardos
Homes, 84 Pitt-street, Sydney. (2) Forms and
particulars will be supplied on application.. • - R.A.
(1) Communicate with the Registrar, Workers
Compensation Commission, Bridge-street, Sydney, as
to your liability under the Act. (2) Ask
Insurance Office of N.S.W., Sydney...-T.W.P.: On
alluvial flats where white clover thrives, it is pi e-
ferred to subterranean clover, as it is more persistent.
Sub. clover should give fairly goodL r !^ ts on . * l J e
upland country in the Grafton (N.S.W.) district.
Planting must be done in the autumn. Literature
on the subject can be obtained from the Dept, of
Agriculture, Sydney. .. .G.R.: A pamphlet on orchard
heating and smudge firing can be obtained from
N.S.W. Dept, of Agriculture, Sydney, gratis. ...
M.E.: The specific gravity of aluminium is -.67,
of tin 7.29 and of copper 8.94. .. .T.E.H.: Regu-
lation 11(d), Commonwealth Air Navigation Regu-
lations prohibits the dropping of any article from
aircraft, except in accordance with Reg. 72, w ic i
permits ballast in the form of fine sand or water
being dropped, and Reg. 73 which allows the
dropping of packages on to dropping grounds
approved by the authorities and for which a license
must be obtained.... (Many others mailed.)


7m
1,
m
(min
m
W//
4
i
a
as?
trp
re
m
M
m
W
HARDTS
SPARKZLIJVG
m
‘As refreshing as a fountain.
)>


To Graziers—
Who contemplate economy In licks
The Users of Vita-Lick have proved at all
times that Vita-Lick is the cheapest lick —
judged by the ultimate results —
TO GET BEST CONDITIONED WOOL
USE VITA-LICK CONSTANTLY
VITA-LICK LIMITED
Stock Lick Specialists
107 KENT STREET, SYDNEY
St.Cecrge
New Zealand’s
Created Delicacy-
fc—and fast becoming Australia's. Tiny inch-long fish,
unique in flavour, whitebait is found only in sparkling
New Zealand streams, then for but three months of the
year.
You, however, can have it the year round, with all its
original freshness and flavour, for it is canned on the
banks of the rivers the same day as it is caught.
Try it. St. George Canned Whitebait will give you •
new meaning for the word “delicious.”
fj/m
mmr
m
%
■ ■ X.
IRVINE AND STEVENSON’S
ST. GEORGE COMPANY, Ltd
Dunedin New Zealand
ST. GEORGE Delicacies
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CRPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
w
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
w
ŵ
WESTRALIAN WHEAT VARIETIES.
“Valerin”: In Junee (N.S.W.) district I
am growing- Noongar and Nabawa side by
side. Whatever the results in Westralia, I
consider Nabawa far superior in yielding
and freedom from disease. In the Riverina
and Central West, Nabawa as .a mid-season
variety has practically displaced the older
ones, and it has shown up consistently in the
crop competitions in those divisions. Being
a fast grower, Noongar will probably prove
a suitable wheat for the far-west areas of
N. S. Wales.
Another Westralian variety I tried last
season was S.H.J., a cross between Florence
and Early Jonathan, produced at the Chap-
man Experimental Farm. It yielded an
excellent sample of medium strong wheat, the
grain being plump, hard and translucent,
just the kind of wheat most suitable for our
export trade. I expect to see S.H.J. give
some of our fancy varieties a hard run in the
medium-strong classes for grain.
WHEAT PRICES AND F.A.Q.
“Yeoman”: “Tuart” (B. 12/2/’3O) has
seized upon abnormal conditions in drawing
a comparison between Canadian No. 1 nor-
thern wheat with a nominal value of 495.
per quarter c.i.f. and sales of Westralian
cargoes at 455. 6d. Canada’s crop last year,
owing to drought, yielded only about 275
million bushels, of which approximately 200
millions was available for export. About
15 per cent, of that surplus graded No. 1.
The statutory deductions for wheat below
No. 1 but sold on a No. 1 basis in Canada
are three cents for No. 2- eight cents for
No. 3; and 21 cents for No. 4.
The greater part of the Canadian surplus
is still unsold. Only a relatively small
quantity of No. 1 northern is available, and it
is being offered at a big premium, but isolated
parcels only are being sold at the high rates
—buyers then paying what is demanded
when the best quality is required for mix-
ing with inferior wheat. Generally speak-
ing all quotations of Canadian wheat for
the last two months have been nominal and
are valueless for purposes of comparison
with actual sales of Australian f.a.q. wheat.
The Canadian pool has been withholding
stocks from the world’s markets because
buyers would not pay its price. Meanwhile,
the overseas market has slumped at least
9d. per bushel. Economic pressure may
force the pool to dump its holdings overseas
at values lower than those now ruling for
Australian f.a.q.
What I said previously (B. 5/2/’3D) with
regard to our f.a.q. still holds good under
normal conditions. And I can turn up
records of sales of Australian f.a.q. at a
premium of 3d. per bushel on No. 1 northern,
which would be equal to sd. more than the
average of the whole Canadian crop.
I am aware that Westralia’s G. L. Sutton
has criticised the f.a.q. system for years. So
have other agricultural experts with an
academic knowledge of marketing; never-
theless, I say they are wrong. Wheat will
continue to be sold on a single f.a.q. stan-
dard so long as bags are retained as con-
tainers. It is hopelessly impracticable to
grade wheat in bags on a commercial scale.
No amount of theorising can alter that defi-
nite dictum.
A SHORTAGE OF POLLARD.
“S. Quire”: Taking Australia as a whole,
there is going to be a shortage of bran and
pollard this year. Already farmers are on
the lookout for substitutes.
Wheat sold from the harvester may con-
tain foreign material such as broken grain and
weed-seeds, backbone, chaff, husks, beeswings,
bolts, nuts, washers and watches; a fair
average for f.a.q. wheat is between 1J and
2i per cent. Naturally, it is conditioned and
cleaned prior to milling. The conditioned
grain on being milled produces (1) bran, the
outer skin or covering of the grain; (2)
flour, the fine meal constituting the bulk of
the internal structure of the berry; and (3)
pollard, the germ of the wheat associated
with more or less of the semolinas and
branning.
Twenty years ago the foreign material first
referred to was sold for sixpence a bag, and
was hard to get rid of at the price. Nowa-
days the bulk of it is finely ground in a
disintegrator and the product is mixed with
the pollard as it comes from the mill. An-
other important point which reduces the
value of present-day pollard is the extraction
of the semolinas for biscuit manufacture. In
the result to-day’s product differs con-
siderably from the pollard of our youth,
which had a creamy color, was soft and of
fine texture, and sufficiently glutinous when
wet to stick to the whiskers of a dog.
Present-day pollard varies greatly; for
the most part it is bran, brannings (fine
bran) and disintegrator rubbish. It is a use-
ful stock food, provided prdper precautions
are observed in blending. I contend, how-
ever, that the material should not be sold
under the old trade name of pollard.
To those looking ahead, my suggestion is
to balance with barley, or barley meal and
potatoes, both of which may be blended with
the brannings (pollard) to make the latter
spin out.
SOME SHEARING-SHED SUGGES-
TIONS.
“Birre Gurra” : If you have decided that
you require more than six stands in the
shed, have ten. Do not compromise with
eight; it is not economical. In these days
of languid rouseabouts eight shearers will
require as many slied-hands as would cope
with ten shearers. The two extra men, if
they are average shearers, will barber about
1500 sheep in a dry week.
Do not have the doors of catching-
pens to swing one way only; have them
constructed of strong, light timber and hung
to swing easily, both into the pen and out
on to the board. One-way doors are anathema
to shearers, and are either removed from
their hinges or propped open during work-
ing hours. Apart from the labor of retriev-
ing them, sheep running about or across the
board constitute a danger to the men work-
ing.
Gates of all pens and races in the shed
should be allowed to swing both ways. Sheep
are confused creatures to handle at any
time, but they are never more so than when
they are forced into a shed made noisy by
shearing. One-way gates are frequently the
cause of a penner-up losing his temper. A
concession to his temper is a concession to
your sheep.
Sliding communication gates between all
catching-pens are rarely seen, but they
possess so many advantages that an attempt
will not be made to enumerate them here.
If you have any doubts about the benefit
of providing wiiat is tantamount to an
additional race in the shed, ask any experi-
enced contractor or penner-up to expound its
virtues.
Bins are an important part of the shed.
Whatever style you adopt, do not have them
built along a wall of the shed. Build your
bins across the shed between the press-room
and the wool-room; erect the press two or
three yards out from the centre of the row
of bins on the press-room side, and place
the classer’s table out from the centre on
the wool-room side. This arrangement mini-
mises labor for both, presser and classer, and
enables the classer to easily keep an eye on
the presser’s work. In small single-boarded
sheds, where often the classer acts as over-
seer, this position enables him to obtain a
view of the board.
Wherever possible, have the wool-rolling
tables set with their length parallel to the
shearing-board, not at right angles to it.
This allows pickers-up to throw out the
fleeces without having to turn side-on, and
also gives the classer a better view of that
important operation, skirting.
Before starting to shear see that a plenti-
ful supply of baskets is available, prefer-
ably on wheels; if not, hardwood skids
should be attached. Baskets are essential in
the wool-room and handy on the board. Do
not suffer the practice of skirting wool on to
the floor and then brooming it in a tangled
mass to the piece-pickers; this practice
renders fast, efficient piece-picking impossible.
Have all wool skirted into baskets.
See that the expert’s shop is well equipped,
and that he' will have ample light, especially
over his grinder and bench. He should be a
man possessing technical knowledge. Give
him a chance to display it—it will facilitate
your shearing.
Provide for the erection of a lock-up store
in the vicinity of the press, where all wool-
packs, stencils, scale-weights, portable parts
of the press, and other articles that can
easily be mislaid during shearings can be
locked away. Shearers and shed-hands have
a penchant for making moccasins of your
packs. A lock-up pack store inculcates the
commi ..dable habit of buying ’em.
MYCOTIC DERMATITIS.
“Lien”: “Wrash” (B. 29/l/’3O) touches
on a debatable subject. Mycotic dermatitis,
as he says, was common during last shearing.
For 40 years or more what was thought to
be merely congealed yolk was seen in flocks
to the extent of about .05 per cent., varying
with the season and locality. It is only of
recent years that the old shepherds have
learned from their scientific friends that the
thing is a contagious disease working from
the skin to the wool. As far as the average
pastoralist is concerned, it is of little con-
sequence so long as he keeps an eye on it.
“Wrash” says no antiseptic lotion will
penetrate the affected parts, and advises kill-
ing and burning affected sheep. The Tas.
Agricultural Department, while advocating
that mycotic dermatitis should be notifiable,
suggests that it can be simply cured by re-
moving the affected wool and dipping the
sheep in a weak solution of copper sulphate
(bluestone).
WATTLE FARMING.
“E.S.S.”: As this country imports large
quantities of wattle-bark from South Africa,
where the trees were originally grown from
Australian seed, there should be money in
wattle farming here.
After the planting in ploughed ground has
been done, the trees require very little atten-
tion. In fact, they will grow on the waste
(Continued on page 31.)


SUNDERCUT
Stump Jump Disc
10-DISC
SIZE
CUTS sft.
14-DISC
SIZE
CUTS 7ft.
Supplied
with
levers for
either
team or
tractor
use.
wSK
15,1
mmmmm
«gv
fyi ''..l
mURSHP* * .;
tested’ -s
‘~i
?V‘ */- V ~ &fr
:
>w*
1
tills
■ gm
Si
si •' M;: WIM
|i 5511
mM
W\
/s^/i
.■'■■Mi
■SII
■
sws
The
Summer
fallowing
implement
supreme.
Deals
effectively
with
Paddy-
melon
and other
heavy
weed
growths.
The “Sundercut” has a greater sale in Australia than any other disc implement. It works successfully in any type of country, amongst stumps
and stones, in hard set fallow, in virgin Mallee soils, and in fallow rank with weeds. The alternate 18 and 20-inch discs set with undercut, cut
a level bottom and leave a lumpy tilth ideal for moisture conservation. Differential Cog Jump allows high jump without increase of draught.
é
BRANCHES:
664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne.
95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide.
27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
Cr. Murray and King Streets, Perth.
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
H. V. McKAY (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
Descriptive Folder, Price and Terms posted free on request.
CP*
v c
\o
&; \jP
XP
ffIUAMMI
%
RADIO BATTERIES
nil
II
rot 10
vA s
m
MOCVS
9
60
m
PO
S''-
Eclipse
Imported Makes
A Clear Statement of Facts
Prices of Diamond Batteries are lower than prices of imported batteries.
Make a comparison of each line and note the savings.
Diamond Batteries are “Eight Weeks Fresher” than imported batteries; this
means at least two months’ extra service. Battery costs are reduced both
ways with a Diamond—initial cost and cost of upkeep.
Diamond Batteries Chosen for Their Greater Reliability
Their construction is distinctive; the “Section-protected” principle obviates danger of leakage so prevalent
in many batteries.
Diamond Batteries make for clearer and truer reception and guarantee longer service.
A Few of the Many Tributes from Users
Mr. J.B. writes (name on application): “I have tried different brands of dry cells on my two-valve set and
none have lasted as long as the Diamond.”
Mr. A.H.P. writes (name on application): “Last August I purchased two 45-volt Diamond ‘B’ Batteries.
My set has been in use for 275 days—five or six hours daily—and the set is doing well.”
Mr. A.O. writes (name on application): “You may be interested to know that we have now sold more than
500 Diamond 45-volt and 60-volt ‘B’ Batteries, and customers, after trying the Diamond, invariably specify
nothing but Diamond.”
Mr. J.L.N. writes (name on application): “I have found that Diamond Batteries are the best that I have
ever used. They are silent in operation and very effective.”
oW«'°
O
S3*
95
onowVio
ẁ
“C” BATTERIES.
No. Type. Size. Volts. Price.
1. Super .... . . . 32x11x3 4.5 3/-
TORCH UNITS.
Single Cell .. U diam. x 21 high 1.5 Bd.
DIRECT FACTORY DISTRIBUTORS:
THE HENDON ELECTRICAL COMPANY
GROUND FLOOR “WHITEHALL,” BANK PLACE, MELBOURNE. ’Phone: F 4952.
N.S.W. Representatives: REG. ROSE & COMPANY, Kembla Building, Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland Agents: J. B. CHANDLER & CO., 45 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
ẃ


i
mm.
■ B
■II
IlSg#l
fH
nHBkv y «■
wJKMm lilppll'
■lllfflil.
RHy
f ■ V,., -A
mMfW&i &k
H
C - • '^'
M
KpH
■
l mr
« v
1
■BSHB&V-
-£ fed _ , A
HI
as
IHHIi
i|g
. i|§|
■hhhsc
■
A \A= 1
' 'V ; A| : -gA;
WmBM
rnmMmmm
■■l ■
C 56
t Y • #>s °^
C^°\uaU^ c f a »d
*f e e a dV der®^
d/rt *e g'
Clyde Batteries for Cars, Radio and Home
Lighting are made by THE CLYDE EN-
GINEERING CO., LTD., GRANVILLE,
N.S.W., largest manufacturers of storage
batteries in Australia. Obtainable from
all garages and radio dealers.
FOR CARS, RADIO & HOME LIGHTING
Clyde Radio
Battery.
BATTERY SALES AND
SERVICE DIVISION,
106-110 Goulburn Street,
Sydney.
Clyde Home
Lighting
Battery.
INTER-STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
QUEENSLAND: The Clyde Engineer- SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Cornell,
ing Co., Ltd., Brisbane. Limited, Adelaide.
VICTORIA: The Clyde Engineering
Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
WEST. AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun and
Johnstone (W.A.) Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA: W. & G. Gonders Pty., Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
i m
a
a
have, use
11 fei
SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
Made of a special steel with extra
keen edges that last and
give a cleaner, far,
far better shave.
Australian Agent:
H. E. UTTLEY, Margaret House,
282 George Street, Sydney.
From Stores,
Chemists and
Hairdressers.
Kirby Beard and
Co., Ltd., Raven-
hurst Works, Bir-
mingham, Eng.
Also London, Red-
ditch and Paris.
ẅ
KIRBY. BEARD &C9L,td
w
No. 5
FOR
THE BLOOD
Guinness is good
for the blood. It
contains valuable
phosphates which
enrich the blood,
and it also clears
the blood by keeping the system in
good working order. For this reason
Guinness is good for the complexion.
Guinness is a delicious beverage—
naturally matured. It preserves the
natural virtues of the barley, barley
malt, hops and yeast, which, with
the addition of water, are its sole
constituents.
N.B.—One pint of Guinness Foreign Extra Stout has a malt car-
bohydrate content equal to one and a half pints of pure dairy milk.
GE9 F/0


ê
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
ŵ
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cu*
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bri<*r Street. Sydney.
ẁ
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak without Notes, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
• 12 Younger Crescent,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
ẃ
ë
ẅ
Seal
Remedy
F ™ ALL STOMACH WORMS
BLACK DISEASE & FLUKE
The One Remedy Cures All.
Contains Ice. Carbon Tetrachloride per See. dose.
900 doses to the gallon; about five sheep treated
L ___ for about one penny.
INTER-STATE AGENTS:
New Zealand Loan and Merc. Agency, Rockhampton
N. S. Pixley /.... Brisbane
Dalgety & Co. . Melbourne
Gollin & Co. Adelaide
Gollin & Co Perth
King Lawless, Ltd Auckland, N.Z.
Manufactured by
SAYERS, ALLPORT PROP., LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Glass and Metal Syringes, holding sec. and acting as
Measure and Drenching Syringe, 10/6, post free.
w
10 x 12 feet.
30/-
12 x 14 feet.
37/6
ŵ
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V.. BOOTH.
ASSURED
POSITIONS - BETTER MONEY.
ẁ
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and
enter a profession where there is a certainty of employment are advised to
send for our prospectus. Here is one profession where the supply is not equal
to the demand. Those enrolling during the present month receive a SPECIAL
CONCESSION.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
FREE!
ē
4th Edition—Bo Pages—Advice—Results of Tests, etc.—
Also Articles on Care of Sheep, etc.
CRUMP MACHINERY CO. PTY., LTD.,
12 Carlisle Street, St. Kilda, 5.2.
Victoria.
WRITE
NOW.
ground along- the creek. An acre carries 500
trees, planted a little less than 10ft. apart,
though some plant as., closely at 6ft., which
works out at 1210 to the acre. A tree yields
from 301 b. to half a hundredweight of wet
bark, which loses abbut a. third of its weight
in drying. Stripping is done when the trees
are five or six years old. Some planters
strip only every third tree at one' harvest,
and replant the sections as they are stripped.
When handy to markets there is absolutely
no waste in the wattle-tree. Even the flowers,
which are produced in rich abundance, are
saleable. The wood, which is light, soft and
elastic, is used for cask-staves, spokes and
felloes, axe and pick handles, and for other
purposes requiring a tough and durable grain.
It is also excellent fuel. From the small
branches and twigs—known as trash —a
fluid extract containing nearly 40 per cent,
of soluble tannin is obtained. The seed, pods
and curls contain medicinal properties. The
tree also produces a very palatable gum,
which should be useful for confectionery
purposes. At one time it was sold in Sydney
shops.
FIGHTING TOMATO WILT.
“St. Peters”: I have been privileged to
see some of the work being carried out at
the Waite Research Institute (S.A.) by
Mr. Samuel, B.Sc., who is waging relent-
less war against spotted wilt. This particu-
lar wilt is caused by a virus thus far un-
identifiable under the microscope. It is
not known outside Australia. Eighteen
months ago, Mr. Samuel found that a black
carnation thrips, barely discernible to the
naked eye, was the medium for spreading
the disease.
The tiny insect lives on other vegetation,
and spraying and dusting are valueless in ren-
dering tomato plants immune to attack. Once
a thrips feeds on an infected tomato plant
it carries spotted wilt to every clean plant on
which it subsequently alights. By allowing
trapped thrips to feed tor a few hours on a
clean plant, Mr. Samuel has proved that the
incubation period of the virus is about 14
days after inoculation. If the plants' are
infected when young, they will cease grow-
ing and die away. If infection takes place
when the plants are grown the top leaves
will wilt; the fruit will develop streaks or
blotches, light brown or yellow in color, on
the surface and will show a white core with
white streaks if cut in halves, rendering them
unfit for human consumption.
I have had first-hand evidence of the
manner in which spotted wilt is spreading.
Last year I established a commercial tomato
garden in the middle of a wheat-stubble pad-
dock miles from the nearest garden. All
plants were raised from imported seed on
the spot. Other precautions were taken to
preserve immunity from the spotted menace.
Towards the end of the season the fruit
from a few plants developed the character-
istic blotches and streaks. As Waite Insti-
tute tests with plants grown from the seed of
infected fruit have given negative results, it
is obvious that a few thrips have found
their way to my virgin garden—doubtless
wind-borne 15 miles from gardens known to
be infected.
The burning of infected plants will not
hold up the spread of spotted wilt, although it
may help to retard it. Soil sterilisation is
useless. Mr. Samuel sought to defeat the
disease by discovering a wilt-resistant ordin-
ary tomato. Ilis search injthat direction was
fruitless. He. found, however, that the cur-
rant tomato, which bears clusters of small
red berries, was immune, and with this as a
starting point he set out to evolve a com-
mercial tomato plant that would be likewise
immune. He crossed the currant variety
with the Early Dwarf, the fruit being the
size of cherries. Plants from the seed of this
hybrid were immune. / Another crossing
with Early Dwarf yielded palatable red
tomatoes as large as medium sized plums.
Should the immunity persist right through,
Mr. Samuel will, with further crossings, pro-
bably succeed in evolving a commercial wilt-
resistant tomato bearing ordinary sized fruit.
He has 3000 to 4000 plants in his cross-
bred plot and is carrying out various cross-
pollination experiments which call for great
patience and perseverance. If his promising
work is crowned with success he will deserve
to rank with Burbank and Farrer.
SYSTEMATIC THINNING PAYS.
“Elberta”: Quite apart from the fact that
systematic thinning of the fruit-crop results
in better fruit, less picking, handling and
packing are required for a given weight as
against fruit from unthinned trees. Not
only that (in itself a distinct advantage in
cost saving), returns from small fruit are
considerably less than from the larger.
A striking example of values was noted in
comparing consignments from two neigh-
boring Vic. orchards. Cases of three-layer
peaches containing 240 peaches sold for
3s. 4d. per case. . A consignment of two-
layer cases containing 80 peaches realised
10s. 3d. per case.
In effect, one consignment required three
times as much handling and packing as the
other and was worth only one-third of the
money.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
A cure for a disease that calves pet from
three weeks to two months old? The sym-
toms are loss of appetite, a cough, ears lop
when standing head down between front legs
and running at nostrils. The calves live
sometimes for three weeks, gradually pining
away. The disease is very contagious. —
4715.
Probably enzootic pneumonia, of bacterial
origin, and usually associated with unhy-
gienic conditions. Medicinal treatment is
not at all satisfactory. Dietetic and hygienic
measures may influence th e course of the
disease favorably. Sick animals should be
isolated from the healthy ones immediately;
each isolated animal should have its own
feeding and water bucket. The feeding-
bucket should be scalded out before the food-
stuff is placed in it. Warm unadulterated
milk should be given freely to the sick
animals. The following preventive measures
should be resorted to: Sweep out the ealf-
pens daily, scrape the sides of the pens and
shelter sheds and then paint them with
limewash, and sprinkle the floors with disin-
fectant (any of the carbolic fluid sheep-
dips diluted with water make a suitable dis-
infectant for the purpose). The roofs of the
calf-pens should be removed for a few days
to allow the sunlight to penetrate the interior
of the shelter-slied. A good scheme is to
make several temporary pens, thus allowing
the permanent structure to be spelled after
thorough disinfection.
Ilow many cattle stations are owned by the
Q’land Govt.? Particulars? —-5041.
The Q’land Government originally owned
13 cattle stations, of which only two now
remain. Iveeroongooloo, area 2170 sq. miles,
is situated in South Gregory District,
s.-w. Queensland —owing to drought condi-
tions experienced during recent years only
5000 to 0000 head of cattle are at present on
the property. The number of employees
varies from time to time according to work
and seasons. Buckingham Downs, area
3400 sq. miles, is situated in North Gregory
District, n.-w. Queensland. This property is
unstoclced and only caretakers are employed.
Is land available in the Harvey (IF.A.)
Irrigation Area? Price per acre and general
conditions regarding purchase? —4o26.
There are no virgin blocks available for
selection, but the trustees of the Agricul-
tural Bank, Perth, may have some partly
improved farms' on their hands for disposal.
Apply to the managing trustee.
(l)Wliat class of soil is best suited for
the cultivation of the Chinese tallow-tree?
(2) Climatic conditions necessary? (3)
Season for sowing seeds? (4) Period of
germination? (5) Ilow to treat and sow
seeds? (6) Some particulars regarding the
Guayule plant? —4sl3.
(1) and (2) It will grow in almost any
garden soil, but prefers a good peaty loam in
a warm situation at a fairly high altitude.
(3) October to February. (4) Four to six
weeks. (5) Sow in the ordinary way in a
good seed compost,- placing the pan or pot
in an ordinary propagating frame. (6) As
far as can be ascertained, the Guayule plant
( Parthenium argentatum) has not made any.
progress in N.S.W., although it has been
given a trial.
(1) Can olives be grown in the Warwick
(Q.) district? (2) Are Burnett River lands
suitable for growing Q'land nuts? —4771.
(1) They are grown there to some slight'
extent, and climatic conditions appear suit-
able. Good alluvial soil is essential. (2)
No. The soil is not friable enough and this
area is out of the rain belt. Requires tropical
or semi-tropical conditions.
By following advice given in the Service
Page I cured my poultry of colds and roup.
They seem, however, to be in need of a tonic ,
Is there anything you can suggest? —4946.
Recommend Douglas Mixture, made as
follows: Dissolve 4oz. of sulphate of iron
and 4oz. of Epsom salts in a gallon of boiling
water, let this cool and then add l|oz. of
dilute sulphuric acid. Store the mixture in
a glass or earthenware container and mark
it “Poison. 7 ’ The dosage is two tablespoons
of the mixture to each gallon of drink-
ing water, and should be given three or
four times a week for a month. This tonic
can be used as a pick-me-up for the fowls at
any time they are not up to the desired state
of health- —for instance, after the moulting
season or an attack of chicken-pox.
Some of my fowls have developed a swell-
ing in the feet with a corn-like centre. Cause
and cure? —4825.
The fowls are suffering with bumble-foot,
which is often caused by thorns or splinters.
In the incipient stages a cure can sometimes
be effected by bathing the foot daily in hot
water and painting it with iodine, but where
the swelling is very large, appears to be
filled with pus and is coming to a head, it
should be lanced, making an incision in the
direction which the toes point, and squeezing-
out the matter, after which it should be
painted with iodine and bandaged up. The
birds must be kept on soft straw until better.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Dairyman”: Blight in cattle is bad in
parts of Australia this year. An unfailing
remedy in the early stages is a little argyrol
dropped into the eye with an eyedropper. A
couple of applications should be sufficient.
“Leg-rope” : Owing to the dryness of the
herbage at this time of year, many cattle
suffer from impaction. I find the following
effective. Dissolve a cup of clean dripping
in a pint of kerosene and administer in the
usual way. Next day give a drench of one
pound Epsom salts, one pound molasses and
one tablespoon ground ginger. Dissolve the ,
salts by boiling with a cup of water, add ■
other ingredients and add more water to
make a quart. Give at blood heat.
“Abdul”: “Kell’s” practice (B. 31/l/’3O)
of mixing skim-milk minus casein with maize
for the pigs may be entirely satisfactory, the
zein of the maize replacing the casein. And
it may be more profitable to separate and sell
the casein than to feed it to the pigs. But
the idea that casein is valueless as pig-
fodder is entirely mistaken. Casein is a
protein, of course. It represents 80 per cent,
of the total protein in cow’s milk. This
protein has the greatest nutriment value
of any of the three constituents of milk —
for a growing animal.
“Tangaloli”: My w r ay of propping heavily-
laden fruit trees is to place a straight pole
a foot or so higher than the tree up against
the trunk, about the middle, and attach it
to the tree. Tie a few pieces of small wire
a couple of feet long to the pole near its
top and radiate the wires down to the
branches all round, using a little paper or
rag for wrapping to avoid hurting the
branches. Wire about. No. 16 will mostly be
strong enough.
“.T.G.”: “Gardener” (B. 29/l/’3O) is
wrong in saying that the bigger the hole the
better the tree will grow. The hole should
never be deeper than is necessary to take
the roots. A deep hole in light soil is
unnecessary; one in hard soil i s dangerous.
“Disc Harrow”: When using a tractor
for heavy work in which the draw-bar can-
not conveniently be employed, don't have
the pull higher than the back axle, and
don’t take your eyes off the front wheels.
Tractors of the wheel type have a ten-
dency to rear, and this is accentuated by
boggy soil and low gear work. There is no
danger if the clutch is put. out the moment
the front wheels begin to lift.


The centre of Queens/a nc/s
\ Soc/o/ Life.
Wok I
<** BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 578 0 —10 Lines.
ẃ
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.»
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
ẅ
THE EQUITABLE LIFE
Assurance Company of Australasia, Ltd.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Office: 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Company issues every variety of Probate, Whole
Life Endowment, Children’s Endowment, Combined
Benefits (All Sicknesses) and Personal Accident Policy.
Policies provide for payment of Hospital Expenses m
lrnnn sum or partial disability, and for cessation ol
premiums on total disability. Secure full particulars from
any of the Company’s offices.
FREDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
e
SMOKE-OH!
ė
They are all Scream Stars nowadays.
THE EYES WANDERED.
“I saw one of the new bathing suits this morning."
“Did you? What was the matter with the girl?"
The trouble with the Naval Conference is
that it can’t disarm suspicion.
# *
“Beatty.—At Borneo, on 22nd January, the wife
Of James Beatty—a son. By cable.— “ Courier.”
By radio beam around the (/lobe,
To see and hear we’re able;
And now we get a Borneo bride
Who has a son by cable!
* #
“Owing to the slump the used-car market is
getting sadly congested.’’
Undoubtedly thousands auto now who
didn’t ought to auto.
* ¥
“The N.S.W. Government is having wider boots,
without squeaks, made for policemen.”
Paradoxically, it will mean narrower
squeaks for criminals.
* *
DONE!
“Dunn admitted he had punched plaintiff. Plain-
tiff had pestered him for money he did not owe.”
To dun Dunn did the plaintiff run,
But Dunn did make him rue itj
All said and done ’twas he did dun,
And that caused Dunn to do it.
* ¥
“It was queer to see the gay, vivacious girl in
the company of this grave, reserved man who
seldom spoke.”—“ Storyteller,”
She had probably heard that you get pearls
from oysters.
PERILS OF SUBURBIA.
“Mr. Williams was mowing his lawn when two
spiders appeared. One made a spring at him, but
he jumped aside, and, picking up a gardening tool,
struck it, killing it instantly. When the second
spider was preparing to spring, Mrs. Williams
crushed it with her foot.” —Sydney “Sun.”
Other events, equally terrifying, have been
reported from the same locality:—
While planting seeds, Mr. Windup, of Ruo
Emoh, disturbed a vicious-looking worm. It sprang
angrily at him, but with marvellous agility he
stepped to one side as the infuriated creature whizzed
past, with the result that it dashed its brains out
against a watering-can.
Mr. Scaredstifl, who recently moved into Agin-
court, was taking up a carpet when a colossal
silverflsh bounded at him. Its fangs penetrated
the thick leather of his boot, but did not go far
enough, fortunately, to reach the foot. Mrs. Scared-
stiff hit bravely at it with a hammer, but missed
and broke her husband’s big toe. The brute was
eventually disposed of by the gardener, who rushed
in and knocked it insensible with a mattock.
Mr. Squibit was walking home yesterday evening
at his usual time, when a huge sugar-ant confronted
him. Mr. Squibit immediately took to his heels
and the ant gave chase. Just as they came
abreast of the School of Arts, Constable Brown
drew his revolver and put a bullet into the ravening
pursuer’s brain. The constable is to be commended
for the cool manner in which he faced the situation.
A public subscription has been raised and the pre-
sensation will be made by his Worship the Mayor
next week.
A. E. H.
Sydney news heading :
“Mosquitoes Trouble Some.”
Others, of course, make pets of them.
“She went with her husband to collect his wages.”
— “Sun.”
Not the first man who’s been taken down
for his cash, either.
NOTHING NEW.
“The trial wife is a feature of the new Soviet
system.”
There is no innovation here.
What husband makes denial
That, even though his wife’s a dear,
She’s commonly a trial?
* *
“Australian XI will be broadcast.” — “Guardian.”
It should be a lot cheaper than sending
them by boat.
* #
“She threw the clock at him.”— “Sun.”
A sheer waste of time.
* *
“Mothers’ Meeting, Guild Hall, 8 sharp.”
Another of these Talkie advts.
* *
Little flapper, you remind me _
Of a star the heavens adorning:
You are out so late at night,
And you look so pale at morning.
“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING.”
“Tourer, late model, in tip-top order, fitted with
all extras, well shod, and registered. This car will
not last long. Only £75.”— “S. M. Herald.”
“I want a second-hand car,” said Daggs.
“Take a glimpse at this one,” said the
veracious salesman. “It’s a lovely little job
if ever there was one. The gears all need
renewing and the speedometer only registers
10,000 miles, although the car has done over
30,000. It’s a glutton on
petrol and it’s not registered,
although the advertisement
says it is. The price is £9O.
Its value I would put roughly
at thirty bob.
“Here’s another remark-
able ’bus,” and he pointed to
a 1917 model. “The boss
was in the horrors when he
bought it and he has been
threatening to throw it out
ever since. We’re ready to
let it go for £3O, but the
catch is it will cost you
another £lOO to get it to
go. We reckon it must have
done the best part of 150,000
miles.
“This little job,” he pro-
ceeded, pointing to a 1916
Fiat, “is for sale at £2O.
Don’t take any notice of the
tyres ; they don’t belong to it.
All the best parts were re-
moved long ago. One of the
front wheels used to come off,
but that’s all right now, as
no one can start it. It’s
worth about ten bob for old
iron.”
Daggs shook the sales-
man’s unusually honest hand,
and passed out on to the pavement.
Here he met an aged man wearing a
notice to the effect that he was blind and
would welcome help. Daggs mechanically
dropped the car-money, which he had in
notes, into the oldster’s hat and walked
pensively home.
M. J. B.
¥ *
CORNERING THE NEWS.
“The heroine of Melbourne’s latest romance lives
with an aunt in a gloomy building overlooking the
Yafra. It is surrounded by a high fence, and
guarded by Alsatian dogs. The dogs bay ominously
when attempts are made to attract her attention.
The gate is heavily padlocked and the dogs appear
to be particularly savage.”— Melbourne correspondent
of Sydney daily.
News Editor {to reporter) : “This girl
Smith seems to be involved in some kind
of family row. The father resents investi-
gation of the affair, which he claims is of
a purely private nature, and he is said to be
bad-tempered and a good shot. Also, the
grounds are full of blood-hounds. Go and
interview the girl.”
Reporter: “Yessir.” , , , .
News Editor : “They’ve got her locked up.
Reporter: “I know.” , .
News Editor: “You’ll have to break in.
Reporter: “A bagatelle.”
News Editor: “Well, get-busy, and if
you don’t bring back a good human story,
look out.” ....
Reporter walks to nearest bar, has a
quick drink, and writes: —
Exclusive Interview with Floss Smith.
Message of Hope to the Nation’s
Girlhood.
The impenetrable hand of Destiny is over
Mon Repos, the macabre mansion in which
Floss Smith —form-
erly a prominent
member of Toorak’s
Younger Set —is
eating her heart
out for love of
young W alter
(Wallo) Jones.
Ere ever this dark-
ling shadow fell
across her young
life Floss was high-
spirited a thing
all light and air.
Now she is triste,
broken, hopeless.
Our representa-
tive had consider-
able difficulty in
gaining access to
the luxurious suite
in which the heart-
sore girl is im-
mured. He found
there one who was
unquestionably a
lady, and also the
possessor of a cul-
tivated mind and
of a beauty so in-
describable that it
were waste of time
to try and describe
it He came to the point without delay.
“What is wrong?” “Ah!” she cried, and
again “Ah!” and fell to weeping passionately.
“Is it a love affair?” “Oh! oh.” and the
tears fell faster and thicker. Your father
disapproves?” But choking sobs were hei
only response. . .
Presently our representative stole irom
that Mansion of Grief. And as he nearcu
the street, and found it bathed in Gods
laughing sunshine, he paused sadly to formu-
late the Message to Australia’s Girlhood
which the stricken captive would certainly
have delivered but for the teeming state of
her emotions:
HE COULD HAVE DER OTHER
YOUNG JACOB: “I yant your Rebecca’s hand."
OLD FADER: “Vich hand is you vant? Not der von mit
der diamonds on. Dey vos stock.”
ę
THE SWEETS OF VICTORY.
“Wotcher larfin' at, Ernie?”
“You know that picture of me mother-in-law that me wife made
me ’ave tattooed on me arm?”
“Yairs!”
“Well—I’ve got a boil on it!”
The kid who, on being asked to specify
the seven wonders of the world, named Aus-
tralia’s seven Parliaments wasn’t so far out,
after all.
z *
“The telephone makes neighbors of us all.”
And now and again it makes us all speak
the same language.
ě
10-2-4.


a
iiiii
mm
mi
.
m
Ms
m
Qualitq
and Quant it q
Country Life the cigarette that has gained greater popularity
in a few months than other makes have won in years. Four words
sum up the reasons for this surprising preference: BETTER
QUALITY—BETTER VALUE. Better Quality because Country
Life is an evenly-packed, cork-tipped cigarette that offers
purest Virginia tobacco of a new blend - refreshingly different.
Extra Value because your usual 1/6 buys you 23 Country Life
, 3 more than the ordinary 20.
That’s why tens of thousands of Australian smokers have changed to
Country Life. That’s why you will change to this better cigarette, too.
andYyferV'
also in tins of
50 and 100
Country Life
VIRGINIA CORK-TIPPED
CIGARETTES
è


figment*
ill sa
as products by a
Jemand The world needs
11, _£tCso exports will not siiffer.
\ was recently privileged to see over
one of the largest of Australia’s canneries,
the cleanliness of which was remarkable.
But still more remarkable was the fact
that over 90 per cent, of the machinery
used was built in Australia. The cans
and glassware were locally made mear
the factory. All cases were made from
Australian timber, nailed with Australian
nails. Labels were priuted in Australia
with Australian-made printing ink. In
tact, this one factory causes, by. its policy
of baying its requirements here, em-
ployment in almost every Stdte of
Australia—and of course helps many
other manufacturers.
Of confectioners’ machinery
cent, can be, and i
question of _
bers- U was me
seconded by
agenda of O
ijig, whet
would bl
It was
meeting of’
gates to the
Southern Df
The Branch
till the first;
the seert
posed,
as rett
N(
é
w
ê


IT ISN'T A
MAGNAVOX
IT ISN'T A
v DYNAMIC
(With • bow lo Kodak)
THE ORIGINAL DYNAMIC SPEAKER
Auslrnlin’s Fastest Selling Speaker A Leader in All States
Dynamic Unit A.C. Model
£7/15A
Dynamic Un:t D.C. Model
£5/15/-
“Your Radio pleasure
depends on the Speaker”
Demonstration will Convince You.
Obtainable Ail Radio Dealers
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Quiet —Restful—Cool —Open to the Summer Sea Breezes. With Private Beach and Amphitheatre
Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds and Garage
Aceomm odation.
Tariff from 4\ guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines).
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
ē
Poverty
Point
“C.M.”: The topnotchers in song all go
the same way. After affecting disdain of
the talkies Galli Curci is now browsing
round the studios of Hollywood investigating
the new method of returning to Australia.
The singer with the birdlike thorax should
record far better than most vocalists. Her
notes have an extraordinary purity and
simplicity, undoubtedly the best sort for
canning purposes.
“Cauboy”: The report that the Firm is
contemplating anew G. and S. company has
been denied, but something will have to be
done eventually. Unless the present holders
'of the copyright perform the repertoire
within a given period they lose the rights
in Australia; and there are lots of people
eager to take them.
“Cauboy”: The average rehearsal is a
depressing business, but the cast of “Love
Lies,” which opened in Adelaide, had a more
than usually melancholy experience. They
put the finishing touches on the frivol at
His Majesty’s, Melbourne, before an audience
of charred chairs and gutted boxes.
“L. de R.”: An American importation of
the Firm, booked for the middle of 1930,
is Edith Taliaferro. She has appeared in
London and N’York in such amiable box-
office draws as “Kissing Time,” “Fashions,”
“Please Get Married” and “Mother Carey's
Chickens.”
“C.R.”: Although Josie Melville has
appeared in nothing since her return to
Australia, she is still under contract to
J.C.W. The little artist, whom audiences
went wild about a few years back, is still
indisposed, however, and it is doubtful
whether anything will be seen of her.
“Murkah”: The havoc worked among local
stage artists by the talkies is only a be-
ginning. Some months ago an American
radio-programme was recorded by the light-
film process. Within a few weeks broadcast
artists were sacked by hundreds, and pro-
gramme strips purchased from a central
bureau. The makers are now looking for
overseas markets.
“Klondike”: Radio does some quick travel-
ling. A programme recently broadcast from
Schenectady (U.S.A.) was picked up at Syd-
ney and re-transmitted back again. The
double journey, totalling 20,000 miles, occu-
pied one-eighth of a second. In a large
theatre, a man sitting in the stalls with ear-
phones on could wait while the warbler took
a trip round the world, and yet hear him
before the sound passed over his head and
reached the gods.
“C.Y.”: Women panto, dames? There is
at least one other. Marietta Nash (Mrs.
George Lauri) did the dame at Sydney
Majesty’s in the ’nineties. It was a J.C.W.
panto, “Matsa,” I think.
“O. Blin”: Elinor Glyn, now past her
second blooming but ready for a third, has
rushed into the talkies to tell all she has
4earnt since she wrote her famous series of
ledside stories. Her first production, which
bears the ambiguous title of “Knowing Men,”
was recently shot under her personal super-
vision at Elstree (Eng.) and will be fol-
lowed by others of an emotional trend.
Elinor is not sparing her cheque-book in
engaging her cast, and recently put her name
to a nice fat one for C. M. Hallard, the
elderly mime who came to Australia with
the Boucicaults and produced a perfect
period-picture of Aubrey Tanqueray.
“Peter Pan” : Frank Neil, who sails with
his troupe on the Ceramic for South Africa
in March, is taking with him a good bundle
of tried successes. From the Fullers he
has secured “The Family Upstairs” and “The
Baby Cyclone,” from the Carrolls “The Best
People,” and direct from U.S.A. “This
Thing Called Love,” a big money-maker
there. The tour will open in Durban the
first week in May with that intellectual
feast, “Up in Mabel’s Room.” Three addi-
tions have been made to the co. that has
been with Neil for the last five years—Zara
Clinton, Neva Carr-Glynn and Robert Ginns.
“Cine Ma”: Members of the old school—
and I am one—who pray nightly on their
knees for the resurgence of the legitimate
drama often don’t realise that the present
generation of young Australians is barely
aware of the existence of such a problem
because it has scarcely seen the inside of a
flesli-and-blood theatre. The movies were m
full blast when they came of playgoing age
and they have naturally accepted them as
the art expression of their day. Where
their fathers thrilled to the names of Bern-
hardt, Maggie Moore and Boucicault, they
thrill to those of Greta Garbo, John Barry-
more and Clara Bow. The thrill is not
merely an emotional response. The more
intelligent are as keen to find something
in their chosen art form on which to bite
their minds as their parents were in theirs.
I have before me the university magazines
from two Australian cities and each has a
column devoted to film criticism whose
literary style, frankness and sharpness of
insight are a reflection on the pap often
passed for criticism. One of the journals
has an article by a student on the future
of the talkie which is as good as anything
I have read.
“Hamfat” : Louis Graveure, who is to be
introduced to Australia by that part of the
Firm which calls itself J. and N. Tait,
finished one tour as a baritone, and a few
nights later started another as a pure tenor!
He shaved his beard to make the change
believable. The metamorphosis happened two
years ago, and it is as a tenor that he
will appear here. Jean de lieszke made a
similar vocal change, but he retired for fresh
study fob a couple of years before facing the
public in anew rOle.
“L.H'.P.”: Gaston Mervale, who gives a
true dramatic touch to “The New Moon,”
came to Sydney first as Tigellinus in “The
Sign of the Cross” in 1897. A Devon man,
educated for the law, he played Svengali in
a 40-weeks’ tour of Fogland before he struck
Australia. In later years he played Svengali
to Nellie Stewart’s Trilby. He also played
for four years under Belasco in U.S.A., but
his chief work has been done here with the
Firm, Meynell and Gunn and others. He
created Black Michael (“The Prisoner of
Zcnda”), Richelieu (“Under the Red Robe”),
Talleyrand (“A Royal Divorce”), and heaps
of other roles for the Australian stage.
“Sliprail”: There are beastly war-pictures,
too. One, lately shown, though American,
represents the Americans at the war as a
crowd of gentlemen that swine would look
down upon with gentle amusement. It is
scarcely fair to a comparatively modest
animal to say they hog food. To call their
love-making barnyard ought to be resented
by all respectable roosters. These movie
Yanks come to a French village. There a
girl of about 17 has around her three or
four youngsters. The alleged Yank soldiers
question her as to their parentage. One is
British, one Belgian and another unknown.
“Wal,” says one of the leering cross-exami-
ners, “thar oughter be a charnce now for an
American.” Every question, every answer is
deliberately loaded with barnyard morality,
but the coarse thing can pass simply because
the girl explains eventually that she is only
the youngsters’ godmother. - Anyway, that is
a minor point. “The Cock-eyed World”
deliberately set out to be vulgar, and was
acceptable for that reason. It at least had
art in acting. This other thing, “Marianne,”
has no art whatever. Its actors, male and
female, are noisome oddities with such a
wealth of ability that Clara Bow stands out
in comparison as something almost divine.
ë
THE OUTING OF ORPHEUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“At a deputation to the Vic. Premier of pro-
fessional musicians thrown idle by the Talkies, it
was stated that the U.S.A, has a death grip on
the music industry.”
As soon as the old play ended,
Straight to their magic cave
Fiddlers and flautists wended,
Masters of trill and stave;
And we loyally rose as the flutes and bows
Flung to the air “God Save.”
Many the haunting number
They rendered, low or loud ;
Dreamy chords that slumber,
Storms with wrack and c10ud....
And the sceptred king of lute and string
Smiled his delight and bowed.
Scenes of moonlit water?
Barcarolles for these.
Reels of roaring slaughter?
Wailing threnodies.
Was it bane or bliss, to the fade-out kiss
They linked their fantasies.
But now when the ads. are finished
We rise to a tinned “God Save” ;
The potted palms have minished
The magic of the cave;
And the trot of the fox we buy in a box,
While the fiddlers tramp the pave.
VICTORIA.
WAWHERESH.


&/ie
NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
HEAD OFFICE, MELBOURNE.
HH
-
;
Capital Paid up
£5,000,000
Reserve Fund
£3,100,000
Total Assets
£47,431,823
508 Offices and Branches in
Australia.
LONDON OFFICES:
7 Lothbury and
Australia House, Strand.
Principal Office in New South Wales:
342 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Bank provides a complete service covering the financial
side of Australian Industry—including farming, grazing,
manufacturing, transport, wholesale and retail trade, as well
as import and export transactions. It makes loans against
approved securities and allows interest on money lodged on
deposit for terms ranging up to two years. Full provision
is made to meet the banking needs of tourists and settlers.
Agents throughout the World.
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN"
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
GOING HOME?
—then make a note of
HENLYS’ “BUY-BACK” PLAN
You want to motor when in England. Right!
Henlys will sell you a car, and, at the same time,
guarantee to buy this car back at a pre-determined
price when you leave. The difference between the
price you pay for the car and the price at which
HENLYS will buy it back, is really ridiculously
small; much less than would be the cost of hiring.
And while you have it, the car is yours to use as
you wish, when you wish.
Henlys apply this plan to the best British makes;
and they have the largest stock of cars in England
for you to choose from.
Illustrated Brochure obtainable from
‘ The Bulletin” Office, 214 George Street, Sydney
HENLYS
England’s Leading Motor Agents
DEVONSHIRE HOUSE, PICCADILLY, LONDON W r
and at Manchester, Leeds and Bristol 3
/
Skin
IrIHTATK*
§§ Neglect of any rough patch
or persistent irritation may
easily lead up to serious skin
trouble. Applications of
Zam-Buk every day will do
you a lot of good.
This refined herbal oint-
ment soothes and purifies
the underlying tissues. It
stops pain and irritation,
and quickly eradicates der-
matitis, eczema, psoriasis,
etc. Get a box to-day!
lL 6 &3f0
ŵ
ẁ
m
M
II
Monarch
Cigars
eAITKEN
Wholesale
f&sSSßfim 1: •sf r i b 11 1 -...*•
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Samboga”: The North Queensland Co.
has acquired 20,000 acres to grow sugar in
the Sangara Valley in n.-e. Papua, and by
the end of four years anticipates having 0000
acres producing 30,000 tons of the stuft. The
locality and climate are ideal, and labor is
expected to be available at a shilling a day
or thereabouts. The first planting will be of
Badilla cane, long ago taken from Papua
to become one of the N.Q. staple varieties,
and now being returned to its old home.
* * * *
“William Williams”: Just received a
letter from a Sydney address pointing out
how money and property are liable to be
lost through rightful heirs not seeing the
“missing friends” advertisements, and adding
that my name figures extensively in these.
For the small fee of 10s. a copy of the latest
combined ad. will be sent. I suppose John
Jones, Thomas Thomas and a hundred others
are similarly circularised ; if only a fraction
respond there must be money in the business.
* =|: * *
“Wollard”: Tasmania’s flood-relief com-
mittee has issued a balance-sheet showing that
2(154 claims for loss or damage sustained
last April totalled £285,591, and funds re-
ceived, exclusive of a Federal grant of £5OOO,
amounted to £110,223. Mainland and over-
seas people subscribed £45,850, and the State
Government saved the fund £17,000 by shoul-
dering the responsibility for the annuities to
widows and dependants of the victims of the
Derby mine disaster. Relief to the extent
of £104,127 was disbursed.
* * * *
“Pull Together” : Some of the Australian
manufacturers who appeal the loudest for
support on the ground that Australian indus-
try should be assisted do the least to assist
other Australian industries. I enclose a
circular from a highly protected and pros-
perous manufacturing company that persist-
ently stresses the “Support Local Industry”
slogan. There was a time when this concern
placed most of its insurance with purely
Australian offices, but lately, following
changes in the directorate, the whole of the
business has been transferred to English-
owned companies. Apart from the bare-
faced inconsistency of this, the exchange
situation is already bad, and this sort of
thing tends to make it worse.
* * * *
“Shypoo”: The perfect organisation behind
the American bootleg trade is seen in the
experience of a traveller recently returned
from San /Francisco. His boat had hardly
tied up there when an affable gentleman
pressed a metal tag bearing a number and
certain cabalistic signs into his hand.
Inquiries elicited that jf the wayfarer wanted
medical comforts he had only to call up
the telephone number on the tag, and his
order would be filled with the utmost secrecy
and celerity. The returned citizen kept the
amulet as a curio.
* * * *
“Bullamacow”: Some little time ago the
Department of Industrial Research shipped
a small consignment of Australian beef to
London in conjunction with the Cambridge
Low Temperature Research Station. The
object was to ascertain which of the Aus-
tralian beef breeds were most suitable for
the English trade, and to demonstrate that
young prime beef is not affected by freezing
to the same extent as older beef. Sides of
polled Angus, Hereford and shorthorn were
forwarded, and when shown at Smithfield
the entire shipment was placed at the top of
the fist for condition and quality.
“Wollard”: Burnie (Tas.) is ini high
feather at the registration of Paper Makers,
Ltd., to establish a pulp and paper industry
near the town, Tasmanian woods having been
certified by experts as entirely suitable there-
for. Over a score of Australian newspapers
have entered into contracts for the supply
of newsprint for 15 years. The nominal
capital is £2,000,000. The Bruce-Page Govern-
ment promised a bounty of £4 a ton and the
present Priminister endorsed the undertaking
during his election campaign, so it is hoped
that the bill will be passed early in the
coming session. Cheap electricity, good water
and port facilities and an abundance of
timber gained Burnie the selection. Another
co. with very good backing has a similar
enterprise in hand in the south of the island.
* * * *
“Marsh Mallow”: Sawmillers on N.S.W.
Northern Rivers are installing machinery for
blasting the sawdust from the benches and
shavings from the planers direct into the
furnaces. Previously it was carried away by
drays or wheelbarrows to be dumped and
burnt. The new device, beside utilising a
by-product, lessens the risk of fire.
* * * *
“Wollard”: Last year Tasmanian orchard-
ists marketed some 75 per cent, of the crop
in Melbourne and Sydney, where there was a
shortage of local fruit; this season most of
the Speck’s output will go overseas. It is
estimated that there will be 2,400,000 cases
for the other side of the world, compared with
less than 1,000,000 cases last season. In
Melbourne and Sydney about Bs. a case f.o.b.
was averaged last year; the overseas figure
will hardly be above 75., but the heavier crop
expected on the mainland this year will
make the British market the more profitable.
* * * *
“R. Volt” : Last year Jock Garden advo-
cated a strike of brown-coal workers at
Vallourn (Vic.) as part of his propaganda of
the moment. How futile it would have
proved, from the promoter’s standpoint, was
shown when a recent sudden flash announced
the blowout of the main transformer. The
mine, the works and the model township
were all promptly plunged in darkness; all
country and metropolitan lines were out of
commission and the conditions which Com-
rade Garden had argued would proclaim the
triumph of the workers were automatically
brought about by Nature. Within half an
hour, however, the lights in Melbourne were
burning as brightly as ever. A few switches
had been turned in Yarraville on the out-
skirts of the metropolis, the juice being
diverted from the Rubicon works at Sugar-
loaf, in the almost inaccessible mountains.
Rubicon is manned by a couple of engineers
and is fed by water-power, which is deaf to
the blandishments of Red orators. By the
irony of fate, Yallourn itself was shortly
going about its normal activities under illumi-
nation obtained from the same direction.


EASIER WORK-BETTER PAY
for ' T
Reg d Trade-mark.
Better,
Quicker,
Cheaper!
r-
m
.v w
■ -m'- -
,->i «v &****» <7
mm
' Jii :■. -
Armoured
Against
Time
ẃ
%
OUR “Caterpillar” Tractor is more than a
unit of farm machinery—it is a faithful
friend.
It enables you to PLOUGH when it
ĕ
REMEMBER
An enquiry costs
nothing and
places you under
no obligation.
C,,>>
■to
**»<
V/,
'<S*S
'■’JS, * <S? %~ J ’ </ " e
..
"V?
%'
V;
,/ <? o ' - •.
e >
Sole Agents in N.S.W. and Victoria.
WILLIAM ADAMS <f COMPANY
LIMITED S
175 CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY
521-523 Collins Street. MELBOURNE


S|
'Mi-.
f A
m
\!
ms
Vr
<3?
SC
' -
ss
a
4s«*/
■AO YOU ?... those men
■ y...real men., who made
Australia’s name at Anzac,
Pozieres, Villers Breton-
neux. They were MEN..
men with red blood in their
veins...who thought as they
acted, in a straight line. No fads or
fancies about them. They ate and
drank such of the good things of life
as came their way .. .They had their
issue of rum...and were the better
for it. They had to be mentally and
physically fit.. .They were !... And
yet your Prohibitionist would have
you sav that alcoholic beverages,
taken even in the smallest quanti-
ties, mean mental and physical de-
generacy! Were those Diggers you
remember every Anzac Day degen-
erates? Go right back through
history, were the great men, who
did the things that matter, degener-
ates? Emphatically they were HOT
...Nor were they teetotallers.
Victorians !.. .Don’t give away the
freedom those fine lads fought and
died for, just because a lot of noisy
cranks are trying to scare you into
it! Hold fast to liberty!
ė
i
-c
r,
rr
(T
REACHES BEYOND STANDARD RANGES
Electric spark photography, perfected in the Peters laboratory, revealed
the faults which develop from the instant a gun charge leaves the
muzzle. Such things as the jamming together of the shot—distortion of
the pellets—loss of power through incorrect wadding—all of which
serve to spoil the pattern and reduce the range.
Peters High Velocity Cartridges are made and loaded by special methods
which overcome these defects. They ensure a killing pattern out of all
ordinary range. And, for all their smashing power, there’s no excessive
recoil. Ask for Peters—if unobtainable locally, write to nearest address
below.
□
AMMUNITION
A FREE BOOK FOR SHOOTERS—“What Happens After the Shot Is
Fired” contains amazing photographs of charges in flight, published for
the first time. It shows the actual advantages of Peters Shells. Write
to nearest address.
SYDNEY DEALERS: Sil Rohu, 143 Elizabeth Street; and Anthony Hordern & Sons, Ltd
DISTRIBUTORS:
W. H. LIDDLE & CO. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney
ALCOCK PIERCE, PTY., LTD Little Collins Street, Melbourne
ARMSTRONG CYCLE AND MOTOR AGENCY, LTD Perth.
JAS. HILL & SON, LTD. Adelaide
FPL 6.
ę
Dept 1 7
Box 1627 8.8., G.P.O.
SYDNEY


Booking
AT
Busy Seasons
Never take it for granted that "The Australia” is full, or
listen to people who say "it’s no use applying—they’re sure
to be booked-up.”
On the contrary, our accommodation is equal to practically all
demands placed upon it. Should we be fully booked when you
apply, we will gladly arrange the next best available accom-
modation.
Telegraphic, Cable and Wireless Address: "AustraotelSydney
Capital Paid-Up,
£422.100.
ŵ
THE HOTEL OF THE
COMMONWEALTH
SYDNEY
ě
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The invasion of Melbourne by Randwick
horses this autumn is bringing sorrow and
disappointment to local trainers, who ; have
seen nearly every big prize go to an alien
prad. Amounis took the Futurity Stakes and
is farming the weight-for-age events, Figure
annexed three races, including the Oakleigh
Plate, and, but for having to be thrown
out of training through a bleeding attack,
was certain to have given a lot of cheek in
the Newmarket Handicap. That race ended
in an epoch-making victory for Greenline,
who was runner-up in the Futurity Stakes.
Carrying the record burden (for a winner)
of lOst. 21b., Greenline scored by three-
quarters of a length from Birdcage, with
Wise Force a neck farther off.
There was a last-moment stable plunge on
the great Greenstead gelding. Early in the
afternoon 10 to 1 was laid against him.
Not until the bookmakers’ bags were bulging
with gilt invested on Taurus did the Green-
line commissioners start bombarding the ring.
Shrewd punters realised the situation almost
instantly, and, by determining to “be with
the strength,” assisted in a dramatic con-
traction of the price against Jim Barden’s
candidate. Alarm became written on the
face of each member of the. MhcShortodds
clan. Some of them put up business shutters,
and treated further inquiries for Greenline
as a personal affront. At barrier rise only
half a point divided Taurus and Greenline,
Taurus being at 7 to 2.
To declare that Greenline won ; easily
would be overstating things. Fifty- yai;ds
from home it looked as if the race was in
the keeping of Birdcage, a gelding bred in
the Narrandera (N.S.W.) district —he is.
by Divine Comedy, sire of Chaumont, the
steeplechaser of ephemeral fame. However,
Greenline had unwound a relentless run
which enabled him to silence the outsider.
Wise Force, piloted by the champion Queens-
land lightweight W. Hill, was a creditable
third, closely followed by imported First
Arrow and Taurus. There never is any
fuss or feathers about Jim Pike- when in
the saddle, and his handling of Greenline
was masterly. He had a royal afternoon,
other riding successes being achieved in the
Essendon Stakes-and the St.,- Leger.
In the spring no one would have imagined
that Amounis would ever start at 7 to 1 on
when opposed by High Syce, who conquered
him in the Caulfield Cup. Frank McGrath s
noble old gelding turned the tables on High
Syce with a vengeance in the Essendon
Stakes. Amounis never was farther than
three lengths behind Jack Holt’s candidate,
and had the drop on him as they raced for the
judge’s box. There was the semblance of a
struggle half-way down the straight, but
Amounis drew away and won as he liked. It
has to be admitted that High Syce improved
on previous efforts at the meetings, and his
astute trainer may be aiming at restoring
the chestnut to his high estate in the near
future.
Phar Lap, in the St. Leger, was quite as
good a betting proposition as Amounis had
been at weight-ior-age. Unaccountably, he
went out at only 2 to 1 on. Strong support
for Sir Ribble had something to do with
it; the Seremond colt deposed Lineage from
second favoritism. Frank Dempsey, on
Lineage, did Jim Pike a good turn by; rush-
ing past Phar Lap at the nine furlongs
post. Phar Lap had been pulling hard, and
Pike wisely retrained from fighting him.
Two furlongs farther on, the favorite
resumed control, and he won in effortless
style. Sir Ribble, finishing gamely, secured
second honors. There is still room for a
lot of improvement in the condition of Phar
Lap, and he promises to be nearly as bright
an autumn star as Amounis. Since the
HENCE THE WASHOUT.
DAVE: “The form’s orl wrong. ’E done it in record time when I put ther clock on ’im.”
DAD (who has backed a dud tip): “Th' clock! "Th’ flamin’ barometer, more likely!”
spring Pliar Lap has been located in
Victoria, but he is essentially a Sydney
thoroughbred.
Thurlstone (11 to 8), who claims Thrice
as sire, registered a well-earned victory in
the Sires’ Produce Stakes, coming from a
long way back to defeat The Doctor’s Orders,
all out, by a neck. Joe Mulcaliy, who trains
Thurlstone, also saddled up the third prize-
taker, Kaftan, a daughter of Moabite.
In the Pines Hurdle a time record was
established by Lord Bounty, who was bred
on the Darling by the late Arthur Crozier.
The favorite, Chumree, fell. Imported Parsee
(9 to 4) ran away with the Brunswick
Stakes. Nearest to him at the business §nd
was Joe Cook’s Sydney prad Leadight, whose
showing suggested that he might be danger-
ous in the Australian Cup.'
* * * *
For Flemington on Thursday:—
C. M. Lloyd Stakes: Amounis; next,
Greenline. ;
Ascot Vale Stakes: Greenview; next,
Thurlstone.
Governor’s Plate: Phar Lap; next, High
Syce. : .
*-.#*..*
MeCarten could have had decent mounts
at Flemington on Saturday, but he preferred
to return to Sydney, chiefly to ride Rhonite
at Moorfield. Rhonite is a chestnut colt by
Valais—Sibar (dam of Dartmoor and other
pretty good ones), bought for 1300 guineas
as a yearling and now trained by Price for
0. H. J. Schmidt. A 5-to-2 favorite.for the
first division of the Juvenile Handicap, he
won like a racehorse in lmin. 3|sec. —a record
for five furlongs on the slow Ivogarah course.
Another opponent for Veilmond next season
and a Melbourne Cup possibility.
Pentheus, having his first race for 1930,
was at 7 to 2 in a field of nine for the
Flying Handicap (& longer price was laid)
and nothing had a chance with him in th*e
short straight, Vaals (3 to 1) and Clear
Flight (5 to 2) doing best of the beaten lot.
A photograph of the finish • shows' the boy
■on Pentheus looking round at the rest. The
six furlongs took lmin. 1,4§ sec.—another,
course record. Pentheus has been nomi-
nated'for the Doncaster Handicap, and will
be prominent in the betting. He cannot
stay, but in the Caulfield Guineas
that he an uncommonly good miler.
Nina Blankney, a good-looking mare who
has been improved by hurdling, had things
all her own way at the finish of the Moore-
field Handicap. ; She went out at the nice
price of 7 to 1. , Cavedweller; (4 to l) looked
a good thing beaten in the Hurstville Mile.
WJien he seemed to have everything settled
the jockey took things too easily, with the
result tliat Hickey, on Troilus (4 to 1),
banged his mount through, and, just cut the
old Moorefield horse out of it.
!j! * * #
For Canterbury on Saturday :
Flying Handicap: Prince Verderer; next,
Bunkum.
Canterbury Handicap: Eden Il'all; next,
Happy New. ’ - *
Highweight Handicap: Greenlocli; next,
Gold Tray.
Ashbury. Handicap : Autumn Balloon, next,
Troilus.
. . * * *
“Aintree”: This year’s Liverpool Grand
..National, which will be run on March 28, will
see a much smaller field that last year, when
121 owners planked down the entrance fee.
This time there are only 84 entries, which
should mean that a comparatively small field
of 50 or so will start. Last year’s 100 to
1 winner, Gregalach, is in again, and with
the Yankee nag Master Billie, who was
favorite, last year, will .probably catch .the
limit weight, 12.7. What a godsend the
English' punter is to McMoses may be seen
in the fact that Easter Hero, second in
1929, was installed a warm favorite before
the weights were out. Considering that he
will have to negotiate over four miles of
the most infernal steeplechase course in
existence, his backers at this date cannot
be accused of pessimism.
“Herhertshoe”: Even Paradise had its
intrusive serpent, and those isles of the blest
which are known collectively as New Guinea
are succumbing to the fascinations of horse-
racing. In a fervent article in the local
press—there is only one of it—a devotee
pleads earnestly for the institution of a
New Guinea Cup to be raced for at Kolcopo,
near liabaul, twice yearly. Lest he be
suspected of a desire to make the meeting
an excuse for wallowing in the Capua n
delights of the Mandated metropolis every
six months, the writer makes it clear that
his desire is to improve the breed of the
local horses, and to enable the clubs to
improve their courses. Quaint how these
good old excuses for what is, after all, just
a glorified gamble, crop up in the most
unexpected quarters.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Bill Tyson .(Sst. Gib.) and 1 . Young Llew
Edwards (Sst. 121 b.), Melbourne's crack
featherweight, met at Sydney Stadium on
Saturday night, when an amazing verdict
gave Tyson a victory on points at the end
of 15'rounds. 'The,local lad shaped pluckily
against a heavier boy, but it is doubtful if
he won more than three rounds. Tyson
scored well up .to the third, but Edwards,
fighting with coolness and skill, brushed
many of his left leads aside and countered
with solid punches to.the body. Up to the
end of the eighth, the Melbourne boy’s
heavier punches took a lot out of Tyson.
In the ninth, the,pair fought to a standstill,
Tyson being dropped for eight when the bell
came to his rescue.' The-twelfth was another
hurricane affair, and■ heavy body punish-
ment in the next two doubled the local lad
up many times. In the final spasm, Edwards
was still on top, and'the verdict was hard
to understand.
“Tom Cribb”: England’s slightly shop-
worn white hope, • Phil Scott, has again
taken the knock at the hands of a Yankee
boxer. The stoush market, like Wall-street,
has been very depressed of late, and frantic
efforts were made to boom the Englander’s
meeting with Sharkey at Miami, the Florida
watering-place. Giving away over half a
stone, the veteran Sharkey walloped Scott
woundily for a couple of rounds. In the
third, the visitor claimed a low punch and
collapsed, after the referee had. commanded
him to fight on. so the verdict went to
Sharkey as a technical k.o.
The fns and Outs
The last inter-State match of the season
between N. S. W. and Tasmania, at Sydney,
ended in the defeat of the- Apple Islanders by
an innings and 262 runs. The wicket was in
capital order, from a batsman’s point of
view, rain in the closing stages handicapping
the bowlers. Tassy could do no better than
119 and 96 in the two innings. Fast-bowler
Thcak took 5 for 41 and 4 for 50, his show-
ing in the first innings being especially con-
vincing. Chilvei's bagged 2 for 22 and 5 for
23 with his leg-break slows, and should find
himself a regular member of the State side
next season.
* * * *
“Iluon”: The failure of the Tasmanians
against the State side in Sydney elicited a
pained query as to why N.S.W: should con-
tinue to be a fairy godmother to Tasmanian
cricket. The answer is that it never was. If
anyone has filled that billet it is Victoria,
which has been giving the Tassies an annual
game practically ever since 1876, thus doing
its best to improve the standard of cricket in
the Speck. All that N.S.W. has ever done in
the way of godmothering is to invite a Tas-
manian side to Sydney every, once in a long
while and then squeal because the gate is
not up to its expectations. On this occasion,
Ma is actually baying the moon, because the
Australian Eleven is to play in Tasmania, a
matter which is none of Ma’s business.
Hs * * *
“Shrewsbury” : The English County Cricket
Committee decided last week to ask the Aus-
tralian Board of Control to reconsider its
decision not to permit the use of the larger
wicket until after the last Test in England.
The request is hardly likely to be acceded to
and is manifestly unfair; the home sides will
have had two seasons’ experience of the
large wicket, while the visitors will be un-
acquainted with it. That Australians will
have to adopt the larger wicket in due course
seems certain, but at least they are entitled
to a trial first.
(Continued on page £l.)
“Blade”: The inter-Universities eight-oar
race for the Oxford and Cambridge Cup will
be rowed in June on the Swan River, over a
three-mile course. Melbourne Uni. holds the
Cup at present, but the Westralian founda-
tion, which won so brilliantly at Adelaide
two years ago, has sworn to get back the
pot from the Yarramcn. It seems likely
that each of the State Universities will boat
a crew, Queensland being the only doubtful
quantity.
WALKING HOME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Footsore he limped into the bar. With
almost vicious emphasis
To the inquiry I vouchsafed he gasped, “I’ll
take a pewter, Miss.”
And down his gullet slid the beer with some-
thing very like a hiss.
“The ‘Snooze’s’ tipster,” he averred, and
mopped at his perspiring brow,
“Predicted that Galoot was bound to win the
Hurdles, anyhow.
He never got a blanky place or looked like
getting one, the cow!
“I thought the prophet of the ‘Bun’ might
be a bird with more resource,
And found that for the second race he reck-
oned Rigadoon the horse
To beat the books. I backed him and the
blighter finished down the course.
“I gave the morning sheets a turn, race after
race, in sequence strict,
Planking my brass upon the prad each master
of the craft had picked.
Their luck, ’tis clear, was out —and mine—
for each good thing was donkey-licked.
“Six seers in turn had slipped me up. Then
to the final race we came.
And as I speculated which of them knew
most about the game
I suddenly discovered all were this time
plumping for the same.
“Shucks was a monty, they agreed. The
deadest, absolutest cert,
Home in a walk they featured him. I rea-
soned that it couldn’t hurt
To put my utmost shilling on. I wished I
could have bet my shirt.
“Upon their joint omniscience went all of my
remaining oof.
Home in a walk!” His bellow rose until it
nearly split the roof.
“Not on your life,” he said, “not him. It’s
me that’s had to pad the hoof!”
N.S.W.
T. THE K.


as
I LL BET YOU
A NEW HAT/
Lift the tag —remove the cap-
sule—and a twist •with finger
and thumb •will give access to
the whisky with the largest
sale in the world.
A misguided gentleman bet Johnnie
Walker a new hat that he could find a
man—perfectly sane—who had changed
from Johnnie Walker to another whisky
and not regretted it. He searched—and
failed. So Johnnie Walker acquired a
new hat.
But he couldn’t discard his old topper,
which had served him faithfully since
1820. To think of Johnnie Walker in any
other hat is absurd.
So, that all his faithful friends might
profit by the bet, he swapped the topper
for the new stopper which everyone
agrees is a "corking” good idea.
Born 1820 ~
Still going Strong
v!
Si*
fC i •;.
.-%<• w
5®
JOHNNIE WALKER
WHISKY
JOHN WALKER 8C SONS LTD., SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, LONDON and KILMARNOCK.


INTEREST RATE—6 PER CENT.
COMMONWEALTH LOAN
CASH AND CONVERSIONS.
CASH SUBSCRIPTIONS—
CONVERSIONS
Received for £l 0 or any multiple of £lO.
Payment may be made in full or 10 per cent, on
application and the balance up to March 14, 1930.
Interest payable from date of lodgment.
Securities of Commonwealth 6 per cent. Loans maturing
March 15, 1930, and December 15, 1930, may be
now converted into this new Loan at the same high
interest rate.
All information obtainable from Banks, Savings Banks, Money Order Post Offices, and Members of Stock Exchange:
SECURITY—THE RESOURCES OF THE NATION.
Commonwealth Treasury,
Canberra, F.C.T.
EDWARD G. THEODORE,
Treasurer
Bert : * It's mins t"
GEGT: 4 Yours! M
Bert: 0 mine ! "
GERT : "Yours l ”
The Ins and Outs
“Olympian”: Next to being tile public
hangman, there is probably no more un-
enviable lot than that of a selector of the
Australian Eleven. It is safe to say that the
trio who have recently passed through the
furnace are held in high disdain in every
State in Australia, and certainly by every
representative cricketer in the country who
is not included in the fortunate 15 for Eng-
land. This has probably induced the recent
resignation of the N.S.W. representative on
the Australian committee, R. L. Jones.
Indeed, he has gone further, and abandoned
his job as a State selector as well. He has
only been four years in the forefront of
State and Australian cricket officialdom. In
that time he has never ceased to press for
young blood, and the present strong element
of youth in both the N.S.W. and Australian
teams is due to his convictions and per-
sistence in upholding them.
sfj ❖ ❖ Jfc
“Aigburth” : When an Australian team last
visited England the matter of the English
selection committee was wrapped in murky
mystery. The precedent has been followed
again, and though the committee has been
chosen, its personnel is filed away with the
secret archives of the nation, or in some equi-
valent spot. Possibly the recent war-book dis-
closures of the ferocious ruffianism of the
Australian are responsible for the hush-hush
methods. In the case of the umpires, no
precautions have been taken. They will be
chosen from F. Chester, W. Parry, J. Hard-
staff (playing in Australia with A. O. Jones
in 1907-08), T. Oates and W. Bestwick.
There’s no close season for umpires appa-
rently.
Jjs s*c Sji *
“Richmond” : An unusual cricket score is
reported from Kyneton (Vic.). In a district
competition, West End put T'aradale through
for 2, only 1 being scored off the bat. Eight
wickets were bowled, and the curious may
work out the averages of G. Ilorncastle (5
for 0) and G. Vereker (5 for 1). The hap-
pening cannot be claimed as a record, how-
ever, for, according to Wisden, there are over
GO recorded instances where teams in minor
matches have been dismissed for 0.
* * t- *
“Old Q”: Queensland’s first experiment
with an imported professional as a cricket
coach has ended for the time being, Ducat
having completed lxis contract for the season
and departed for England to take his place in
the Surrey XI. Ducat has made himself a
great favorite with the Queensland cricketing
fraternity, and though it is too early as yet to
expect results from his first season’s work, he
has satisfied all hands that he knows his job.
Much of his coaching has been among the
colts, and many of these have come on wrnll
under his eye. The question of his return
next year is as yet unsettled. If he does
come back, it should be with a special com-
mission to coach the Sheffield Shield side in
the elements of fielding, and especially of
holding catches. They need it.
* * * •!=
“Cover”: N.S.W. cricket finances show a
loss of about £2OOO for the season compared
with a profit of £4403 for the previous one.
Certainly the visit of Chapman’s side helped
to swell the assets on that occasion, but a
little foresight on the part of the association
executive would certainly have converted this
season’s debit into a credit of sorts. The
chief cause of the loss is said to be the wet
weather during the Victorian and South Aus-
tralian games. A small outlay on insurance
w r ould have covered that and landed a decent
profit into the bargain. Another item of
extra expenditure is £lOOO on coaching, but
that really amounts to an investment rather
than an item of expenditure. However, as
the association is enthroned on a pile of
money-bags, the loss is not a matter for great
concern, provided it isn’t repeated too often.
_ “Te H’iM”? Maoriland drew the fourth
Test with Gilligan s Englishmen at Auckland,
though the trend of the game was in the
v } s favor. England’s first knock brought
549 the skipper, Legge, playing a great
sho l for -.qc other scores were 75 bv
Nichols and 63 bv Duleepsinhji, none of the
M L bowlers proving formidable. M.L.
came pack with 387, Lowry saving the follow
on with a timely S q. Allom, with 4 for 82,
wag England’s most successful bowler. Bat-
ting out time, England lost 3 for 22 in their
secon( j try, Legge catching a duck this time,
’ • 0
“Lancaster Park” : Maoriland has been a
happy hunting ground for English cricket
professionals for some years past. Most of
them are migratory birds flitting to the
Dominion during the English winter and
returning for the English season, E. H.
Bowley, this year touring with Gilligan’s
M.C.C. Eleven in Maoriland, being a typical
example. The latest to join the coterie is
bowler M. S. Nichols now
Gilligans side, who will coach for
Wellington association next, season,
* *
“Hotham” : Victoria, still plunged in gloom
over the Ryder episode, was a little cheered
last week by the bowling performances of
a’Beckett on a type of wicket he is pretty
sure to encounter in England. Playing in
the pennant competition the tall Uni. trundler
had Northcote all at sea, the side going for
5S runs, 20 of which were sundries. The
Australian Eleven player’s figures were 6
for 25, and his mate at the other end, Bailey,
backed, him up nobly with 4 for 13. It looks
as if a’Beckett has recovered the bowling
form which brought him into the limelight a
couple of seasons ago, and he will probably
P ro ™ one of the surprise packets for the
English critics who consider this Eleven weak
m bowling.
r .
1 he Watermen
“Stretcher”: The annual regatta of the
N.S.W. Great Public Schools has again been
set down for the Parramatta River, so the cus-
tomary confusion and congestion will obtain
on May 3, finals day. On every recurring
occasion serious accidents on the crowded
river are only avoided by good fortune, and
one of these days the good fortune will be
absent.. Then, perhaps, someone will be found
to inquire of those responsible why the finals
at least have not been shifted to the spacious
Nepean at Penrith, where the inter-State
an( i inter-Uni. races are rowed,
* * * *
“Blade” : The annual meeting of the Aus-
tralian Rowing Council in Adelaide next
May will have to consider a strongly backed
proposal to hold the eight-oared and sculling
championships of Australia every two years
instead of annually as at present. The
expense of these meetings falls heavily'on the
State rowing bodies, none of which is able
to obtain “gates” on the scale cricket and
football organisations .command. Victoria
moved in this direction last year, and this
time Tasmania will support the change. As
Queensland and Westralia may also be agree-
] | N.S.W., the chief objector last time,
“ nilt ’ , pfl
‘ J ... ...
„ .. , , “ . . , . . ..
Toowong : Queensland, which missed the
last race for the King s Cup in Perth will be
? n * iand f° r -connng contest at Mannum
in South Australia. _ Lhe crew, whici wi 1
select itself by winning the State champion-
ship on March ,—will leave Brisbane on
ri l -6,. arriving at Mannum on April -9.
4 he race is ( |own for May 30, so the Banana-
landers should have time to shake down and
& e t used to tno water.
* * * . .
“Sing Lo ’: As one of those who partici-
pated in the first “Henley” on the Whang-
poa in 1906, may I speak my little piece in
connection with “Sing Hi’s” remarks (B.
22/l/’3O) ? In 190 S, the committee received
an intimation from the Chinese authorities
to the effect that the Shanghai Taotai had
protested against the holding of further
Henleys. The heads forwarded the protest
with the following polite addendum:—
Now all concerned are hereby respectfully re-
quested to abstain from holding or participating
in the proposed Regatta at Hen-li; 'otherwise they
shall be wholly responsible for the consequences.
Notwithstanding, the regatta was held, the
Chinese authorities despatching several sail-
ing boats with a gun in the bow and six
soldiers each to protect us. We were un-
molested, but two days afterwards local
pirates from Lake Talioo swooped down on
the unfortunate protectors and got away
with them and their boats!
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: For some curious reason,
Sydney tennis writers have never missed
a chance of “knocking” Moon. Crawford’s
assertion, at the dinner to the Davis Cup team,
that he had the greatest confidence in Moon,
endorsed as it was by Hopman, who specially
referred to the Queenslander’s great record
on the European hard courts two years ago,
should put the lid on the inspired campaign.
Jfc % ' ❖
“Tightwad”: The N.S.W. tennis autho-
rities made short work of the recent appeal
by women inter-State players for the grant
of £5 each for expenses in Melbourne. Com-
menting on this a journal in the Yarraside
city remarks brutally that the women players
usually have husbands or fathers to foot their
bills, and are really better off than the poor
male wage-plug. It recalls a legend of the
late John Norton, in the long ago. A deputa-
tion of his reporting staff waited on him with
a trembling request for a rise in salary.
John bent his Jovian brows on them in
silence for an awful minute. Then, “Don’t
you think that your wives could take in
washing?” he thundered.
:Js :!: :!: ❖
“Rev. Knucklebone”: A discussion lias
been raging lately among Sydney tennis
addicts concerning “plantaris,” a term by
which the quacks like to distinguish what is
known to the vulgar as “tennis elbow.” The
mysterious affliction, as is well known, pre-
vents a player from persisting with his or
her game, and may result in entirely wean-
ing her or him from the pastime. The
most intriguing theory of the origin of “tennis
elbow” is that it is due to a muscle in the
calf of a leg, though which leg is not speci-
fied. The only case witnessed by the writer
occurred when the afflicted person was receiv-
ing the father of a walloping from his
opponent. The writer’s diagnosis in that case
was not strained muscle, but cold feet, and
this is probably not far from the truth in
most cases.
jjc sjt t
“Slatherumwhack”: The Irish Free State
has characteristically taken up the shillelagh
against the effeminate Sassenach pastime of
tennis. Mr. Sean Cassidy, of the Gaelic
Athletic Association, has pronounced it a
game unfit for the meaty traditions of Erin.
Indeed lie has been cursing the day that
badminton and tennis ever entered the Isle
of Saints, and prays for another St. Patrick
to drive the intruders into the sea. What
Sean should do is to introduce croquet.
The mallets used in this apparently innoc-
uous game have great possibilities in the.
case of a dispute arising with the referee or
anyone else.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Miramar” : Walter Hagen and Joe Kirk-
wood struck a bump simultaneously with
their ship’s Maoriland landfall, small-pox
breaking out on board, with the result that
their series of exhibition games in the
Shivery Isles had to be cancelled. This was
tough luck on the pair, as well as a misfor-
tune for the Maorilanders. Not only did the
latter lose a liberal education in the Royal
and Anticnt game, but the tourists missed
collecting a thousand quid or so —a much
more painful happening.
*s* ' *
“Manana”: Local golfers are waiting to
see if Walter Hagen will live up to his
European and American reputation for un-
punctuality. Just as the old-time champion
pugs liked to keep aspiring opponents wear-
ing out their nerves in anxious waiting, so
doth Walter delight to have a temperamental
adversary consulting his watch and cursing
on the first tee. The authorities in America,
at least, seem to be getting a bit fed up.
Recently, when Walter arrived late for his
start in a big Californian competition, the
committee told him lie had been scratched, and
not all his tears could wash out a word of
the verdict,
* =1: * *
“Iconoclast” : Something akin to painting
the flapper and brassoing the bookmaker's
diamonds happened in Brisbane the other
day when two parties of local golfers took
part in what is described in! the local press
as “a burlesque golf match.” As might
have been expected, the affair was most de-
pressing for the spectators, the general effect
being that of an American revue performed
in blank verse by a stranded Shakspearean
company. Golf in its natural state is one
of the most side-splitting entertainments
available to those who have not surrendered
to its stupefying miasma. To burlesque it
would be equivalent to squaring the circle
or plotting the fourth dimension.
“Hamilton”: The latest victims of the
golf virus in Queensland are the members of
Tattersall’s Club, folk who usually carry
a bag for other purposes than carting golf
clubs about, As is their custom, the mem-
bers of the odds-laying organisation intend
to field on courses provided by other people,
as opportunity offers. Already trophies have
been offered for competition on specified golf
links, in which the donors have some personal
or local interest, a fact which suggests that
the old “horses for courses” aphorism is
taking on a golfing complexion.
* * :|s *
“Claypan”: Canberra Golf Club is per-
turbed because the new Chief Commissioner
of that Arcadian spot has refused to.grant
it a lease of its course. The club, or some
authority on its behalf, has spent some
£lO,OOO on the links and the revenue amounts
to about £4OOO p.a. Unfortunately it has
picked on an area a good deal of which is
destined to become the bottom of the orna-
mental lakes scheme, which will one day
delight Canberrites —or is it Canberries?
However that damp doom seems as far away
as it has been these many years past, and
the club will carry on, with one of the
recently abandoned stately pleasure-houses
which once enshrined vanished officials as a
club-house.
* * * *
“Brassey”: Even the gods nod, and the
news that the young American professional
Horton Smith had beaten Bobby Jones in
the Savannah (U.S.A.) open tourney should
cause no surprise. All the same, Jones '
cannot last for ever on the top rung of golf.
It is now close on 10 years since he
first broke into the American championship
class, and that is a good run for an amateur.
Jones, who is to figure in the British cham-
pionships again this year—he gave them a
miss in 1929 —is far from done yet, for in his
match with Smith he did one round in 65,
a course record, which works out at a trifle
over 31 strokes per hole. Smith won with
a total of 278, strokes per round, or 3.86
each for the 72 holes —an astonishing per-
formance over, the distance.
(Continued on next page.)


MONEY IN WHALES
NORWEGIANS PAY BIG DIVIDENDS.
AUSTRALIAN COMPANY FORMED.
Norwegian Whalers have established highly profitable industries on the products of areas which, rightly speaking, should
be exploited by Australian enterprise. Last year the gross takings from Whale Products in Southern waters exceeded
£8,000,000. It is, therefore, satisfactory that Australian investors are at last to be given opportunities of reaping a share
of this golden harvest.
The Australian Whaling Company, Ltd. (authorised capital £750,000) has gone to allotment with applications for 75,000 shares.
This company has accpiired—as a going concern —a whaling station on the coast of Western Australia. During the past
four whaling seasons 3445 whales were captured at this station—gross realisations amounting to £553,830.
LATEST WHALING NEWS
Late cables from London on 2nd Jan., 1930, report several Whaling
Companies paying dividends ranging from 20 to 35 per cent. ;
Rosshavet Co., Vestfold Co., Sydhavet Co. and Viking Co. paid
25 per cent, each; carrying large sums to reserves. The Hektor
Whaling Co. (one of the new companies) paid 25 per cent, on
first year’s operations. On 10th Feb., 1930, Sir Douglas Mawson
reported that “West of Enderby Land whales were found to be
exceptionally abundant’’; bearing out his remarks in “Sun,” 9th
Dec., 1928: “Almost at the doors of Australia lie mighty stretches
of sea teeming with .wealth —a number of whaling companies have
a gross return of £500,000 p.a. and pay dividends of from 40 to
100 per cent.”
INVESTORS SEEKING BIG DIVIDENDS SECURED BY TANGIBLE
ASSETS SHOULD APPLY FOR PARTICULARS ON THE
ATTACHED COUPON.
TO THE AUSTRALIAN WHALING COMPANY, LTD.,
Head Office, 16 Barrack Street, Sydney.
Please send me (free of charge) the Prospectus of the
above Company.
Name •
Address
Per Bulletin, 5/3J’3O.
m
a®
m>^ x3S i
In sealed
Metal
Box ...
A NEW SET OF
LODGE
PLUGS
It is a Wonderful Stimulus for
Your Engine.
The Proved Best Plug for the
MORRIS OXFORD and COWLEY
is the LODGE CB3 PLUG.
LODGE PLUGS, LTD., RUGBY, ENG.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 61 of 1930.
BETWEEN AUDREY ERNEST BARNES
Petitioner and LAURA BARNES form-
erly Laura Don {nee Woodruffe) Re-
spondent.
TO LAURA BARNES late of 26 Allen
Street Glebe Sydney in the State of
New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Audley
Ernest Barnes has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards _ AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the seventh day of May One thousand nine
hundred and thirty and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of
the Petition filed herein may be . had on
application to the undersigned solicitor free
of charge. _
DATED this Tenth day of February One
thousand, nine hundred and thirty.
For the Registrar,
LL.S.J C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
J. A. Boxliall, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Read the most startling book
ever published in this country,
"Australia Joyriding to Bankruptcy”
“TARIFF MAD WORK SHY”
The truth for the first time regarding our position.
Order your copy (3/6 post free)
before it’s too late from —
MORTONS, LTD., Printers & Publishers,
182 Chalmers Street, Sydney.
THE PATRIOT
|DIREa^MEDjy^^WDMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. O. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
NEW ZEALAND
16 GLORIOUS
DAYS for £33
MELBOURNE TO MELBOURNE.
gIXTEEN DAYS of sheer enjoyment. In
the wonderland of the south —-New Zea-
land—Nature has been most lavish with
her gifts—snowclad mountains, sparkling
lakes, evergreen forests, flashing waterfalls
and crystal-clear streams —and sport un-
limited.
You NEED a holiday—Spend it in the
South of New Zealand. Sixteen glorious
days for £33. Steamers sail from Mel-
bourne to the Bluff on:—
Thursday March 13
Thursday April 3
and every three weeks thereafter.
Write for booklet of tours.
NEW ZEALAND GOVERNMENT
AGENCY,
59 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l,
and
E., S. & A. BANK BUILDING,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Car and Cycle
“Gear Box” : A Queensland party recently
brought off one of those long-distance holiday
tours which modern motor efficiency has
made increasingly possible. Leaving Bris-
bane in a Whippet 30ewt. truck, the tourists
travelled to Sydney by the Northern Rivers
route, and thence round by the Blue Moun-
tains, Bathurst, Tamworth and Armidale to
the Northern Rivers again, and so home.
The total mileage was 1932, and only 96
gallons of petrol were used. At two bob a
gallon that makes the fuel cost for the jaunt
under £lO for the month’s journeying—
cheaper than even a self-feeding bullock-
team could have done it in half a year.
* 3:
“Combust”: One of the few remaining
pioneers of the motor-car passed out in Eng-
land lately in the person of William May-
bach, a contemporary and fellow-worker of
the late George Daimler, who is generally
acknowledged as the inventor of the modern
internal-combustion engine. Maybach’s par-
ticular contribution was the invention of the
jet carburetter on which all fuel-feed systems
of to-day are based. On Daimler’s death
Maybach took command of the Daimler
works, to retire in 1997. In later years
he devoted much time, in co-operation with
a son, to the development of airship engines.
“Douglas” : The invitation from the British
Autocycle Union for an Australian motor-
cyclist to take part in the Isle of Man
Tourist Trophy race in June next has been
accepted, and the Australian Council has*
chosen Stuart Williams, of N.S.W., as its
representative. Williams has had previous
experience of the very difficult route to be
traversed, having ridden over it in the 1925
event, though without any luck. A.t least
one other Australian may start —Simcock,
who was placed last year and has been riding
successfully for time in Britain and on
the Continent.
:I: * * *
“Kick Starter”: The first Tourist Trophy
open road races for motor-cycles, will be held
on a Goulburn (N.S.W.) circuit on Easter
Saturday, under the wing of the Autocycle
Union of N.S.W. Five events will be staged,
three being Tourist Trophy scratch races and
two handicaps. The senior and junior T.T.
events over 100 miles will be open to all-
powered cycles and those under 350 c.c.
respectively, while the under-250c.c. class
is catered for in an 80-miles event. A 27-
miles solo handicap for all sorts and a side-
car handicap over the same distance are also
on the programme.
* * * *
“Coventry”: The doyen of cycling and
motoring journalism, Henry Sturmey, spiked
his last copy in January. He began as
editor of “The Cyclist,” founded 50 years ago.
Later he became an authority on motor-cycles
and -cars, and was the first editor of the
universally known “Autocar.” His long
acquaintance with the trade gave Sturmey
unquestioned authority. Only once was his
judgment known to be at fault. That was in
the early days of the pneumatic tyre, which
he condemned as a snare and a delusion.
* * * *
“Narque”: The good feeling existing be-
tween Victoria and N.S.W. is finding new
expression in cycling circles. One Ridgeway,
KAYE DON, the English motorist, due to
make an attempt on the world’s speed
record at Daytona Beach ( U.S.A. ) this
month.
of N.S.W., has asked permission from the
State controlling body to attempt the Syd-
ney-Melbourne cycling record. AVlien Hubert
Opperman put up his outstanding figures in
November last, N.S.W. refused to recognise
the ride on a technicality. Of course, Vic-
toria rushed to the other extreme, and
blazoned it in letters of gold in its temples.
The position now is that if Ridgeway puts
up a new record, N.S.W. will recognise it
but Victoria won’t. The next step may be
the throwing of entrenchments and barbed-
wire across the Sydney-Melbourne road on
each side of the Murray, and the establish-
ment of m.g. posts.
Miscellaneous
“Hotham”: Melbourne bowling circles
view with alarm the increasing tendency of
irreverent youth to encroach on the sacred
game. The other day an important compe-
tition was won by a mere brat of 30 or so,
with the result that the upward curve of
the bar trade in the different clubs has been
most marked. It was • bad enough when
women started butting in, but at least they
keep to themselves. There was a time, in
the dawn of history, when rash youth which
F. W. COOMBES, one of the A.J.C. stipend-
iary stewards, who has departed on a
holiday trip to England.
forced itself on the mysteries of the tribal
elders was liable to have its brains clubbed
out. Those spacious days have gone for ever.
“Dedans”: Tennis proper is a cloistered
and aloof sport in Australia, or elsewhere
for that matter, and the world _ which wor-
ships cricketers and other limelight-catchers
takes little heed of the game which is in-
terwoven with history. This year will see
the first invasion of Britain by an Australian
challenger, Percy Finch, of Tasmania, who
holds the Australian professional champion-
ship. Before leaving he played an exhibition
match in Melbourne with the Victorian crack,
W. Stone, whom he defeated in Hobart
recently. Hobart and Melbourne harbor the
only tennis courts in Australia. Finch will
play a series of matches in Britain, pro-
bably against amateurs as well as pros.,
this essentially aristocratic game taking no
heed of the amateur-status bogey.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: An abnormally dry year spoilt
the opening of the Victorian duck-shooting
season. It was estimated that over 1000 cars
packed with gunmen poured out of Melbourne
and descended on the Mallee district and
Gippsland. A large number of them, however,
never saw a bird on lakes and swamps where
on previous occasions there have been thou-
sands. The duck appears to be one of those
birds able to pass on acquired instincts.
The embargo was lifted at midnight and
when morning dawned the ornamental waters
of Melbourne Botanic Gardens were packed
with refugees.
* % * *
“Third Base”: N.S.W. baseball heads are
considering a visit from the University of
Hawaii, the place on whose reputation the
invention of the ukulele has cast a horrid
blot. The H’awaiians play plenty of ’ball
against teams from the Pacific coast of the
States, and are fair exponents of the game.
The U.S. University series will prevent a
Uni. team coming over this year, but both
Stanford and California are eager for a
trip in 1931.
* * *
“C. Bumpkin”: Viewed from the deck of
a yawl which has done a 15,000-mile cruise
in the Pacific, the third and final heat of
the Forster Cup was seen in better perspec-
tive than the spectator gets from a firmly-
anchored jetty. The shallow waters of Port
Phillip put up as steep a jobble as could be
wished for, and the bucking 21-footers were
hard put to it to stay afloat. In the middle
of the second lap the wind shifted to the
south and blew a 60-m.p.li. gale occasionally.
Only two skippers stuck it out to the finish-
ing "line, N.S.W. 111. winning, with N.S.W.
I. second, after what was less of a race
than a struggle for survival. The N.S.W.
win breaks Tasmania’s run of consecutive
victories from 1925 to 1929 inclusive.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: The speedboat contest for the
Griffith Cup, which carries the Australian
championship, was run off at Adelaide on
the Sabbath, a fact which, apparently, passed
unnoticed in the Holy City, heavy weather
on Saturday being the cause. Rymill Bros.
Tortoise 11., one of the two local competitors,
won from the N.S.W. craft, Eagle, owned
by J. G. Macnamara, with the other con-
testant, A.M.R., down the course. Eagle had
bad luck in breaking a throttle rod in the
first heat, a happening which affected her
running throughout. The first heat was run
at 52 "m.p.h. and the second at 55. The
winner’s best lap was at 65 m.p.h. This
is an Australian record, the previous best
being 62.07 m.p.h. by Eagle on Botany Bay.
“Splash” : There is a grin in the announce-
ment of the N.S.W. swimming authorities I
that they will not regard surf-club members
who play Rugby League football as profes-
sionals. This is the same body which some
years ago refused to reinstate Harold Hard-
wick as an amateur swimmer because he
had been declared a professional by an
affiliated body, the Boxing Association. In
this instance the swimming crowd \vere obey-
ing the law which in the late case they have
conveniently ignored. Yet at the very time
they were refusing to re-admit a returned
soldier in Hardwick, they whitewashed a
professional diving expert who had deserted
the amateur fold to chase the cash, and then
thought better of it.
* * * *
“D.”: “Tiny” Freyberg, who has been de
fending the soldiers against the writers of
war-books, gave up Channel swimming for
two remarkable reasons. One was the dis-
covery that, no matter what measures the
doctors took, some of the wounds with which
his immense body is literally covered re-
opened under the influence of salt water.
The other was that his regiment objected
to his participating in what has come to he
looked on as a stunt sport. Freyberg be-
came a Guards captain, after being a briga-
dier in France, and it was pointed out to him
that Channel swimming is “not done” in the
Guards.
* * =!•• *
“Si Anu”: One of the most casual sport-
ing feats on record was that of an English
planter, who, after having attended a famous
annual dance and missed the ferry in con-
sequence, decided to swim the strait between
Penang and Province Wellesley, on the
Malay Peninsula, a distance of about four
miles. A strong tide, the possibility of meet-
ing a crocodile or a tiger coming the other
way—one of the latter had crossed the strait
a few weeks before—added interest to the per-
formance. As the local paper remarked,' “it
was a great swim, considering it was against
a strong cross-current and after a night such
as St. Andrew’s ball!”
* * * *
“Amity Point”: A glider flight made in
Sydney recently in a machine built by the
experimenter himself, J. Lyons, has been
claimed as the first of its kind in
Australia, though the sport is common
enough in Europe, and especially _in Ger-
many. Before the war, one Sub-lieutenant
Bowen, then a member of the Naval Re-
serve forces in Queensland, built a glider
and made several successful flights with it.
He chose the huge, steep sandhills of More-
ton Island, near Brisbane; for his experi-
ments, taking off from the tops and landing
safely in the soft sand of the flats below.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro”: The question of the
amateur status of Rugby League players is
again engaging attention in Sydney. Some
of the athletic organisations have said that
they do not regard them as professionals.
This does not alter the fact that the inter-
national definition states clearly that any
sport declared to be professional by any
body affiliated to the International Federa-
tion is rated as such. If subsidiary bodies
in Australia or elsewhere like to ignore the
law that is their own risk. As a test I
suggest that a League player openly offer
himself as a candidate for the Australian
team to the next Olympiad, or the Empire
games in Canada, where amateur organisa-
tions are jealous of their responsibilities.
* * * *
“Ti Te Wate”: The economical Maoriland
Rugby Union has decided to ban all broad-
casting of the important matches against the
British Rugby team during the coming sea-
son. The reason given is that the voice on
the air induces many to stay at home
and listen in. That was not the experience
in Sydney or Brisbane when the All Blacks
were taking their to-welling last year. The
average football follower, usually an ex-
player, is rarely content with a verbal de-
scription of the play. He likes to be there
to watch the hair flying and to note the
countless little amenities being exchanged
which the announcer either doesn’t notice
or passes tactfully over.


e
the NEW
Mobiloil
REGD.
The World's Quality Oil
and
plume
appotenie
Motor Spirit
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.


Columbia
m§§
Os
w
r
S3S
V.X?
W/
L
u
■HE El EE EESEEE
Columbia
Tortablt
NO. 109 A £5 10 0
110. 112 A £7 10 0
Table Qrand
N0.119A OAK £l3 10 0
NO. 120 A MAHOGANY £l4 10 0
c New
Cabinet Model
NO. 132 A OAK £27 10 0
NO. 133 A MAHOGANY £3O
<^{e e w Console Model
NO. 155 A OAK £35 0 0
'l^ew
Cabinet Model
NO. 134 A MAHOCANY £45 0 0
Console Model
MO. 156 A MAHOGANY £42 10 0
Columbia
iWith the Qamous
lIAMCKEIIEI
principles
rpHE vast scientific and manufacturing resources of
A COLUMBIA have been concentrated in the production
of these New Instruments, which represent the latest
developments in Acoustic Reproduction
Science has contributed to the NEW COLUMBIA Plano-
Reflex GRAFONOLA new and exclusive features which
place it in a STANDARD above all others
N ever before has there been heard an Instrument which so
faithfully reproduces All Music
The Rolling, Surging Swell of the Organ
The Mystic, Mellow Music of the Violin
The Crashing Crescendo of the Orchestra
*• LIKE LIFE ITSELF ”
There is a variety of Models to meet every taste and THE
PRICES will ATTRACT YOU
There are no Phonographs to-day that are so good as the
Columbia
Grafonola
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
GRAFONOLA LTD., 39 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA:
COLUMBIA DISTRIBUTORS (VIC.) PTY., LTD.
300 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
QUEENSLAND:
KING & KING, LTD., Queen Street, Brisbane.
A. E. HARR OLD, 123-125 Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
PHONOGRAPHS, LTD., 671 Hay Street, Perth.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN PHONOGRAPH CO., LTD.,
Gilbert Buildings, Gilbert Place, Adelaide.
TASMANIA:
COLUMBIA SUPPLIES (TAS.) PTY., LTD.,
Launceston, Hobart and Burnie.
THE TEST THCNCCHTTH IN TEE ITCHED


Monday to Friday,
A la Carte Dining and Supper
Service.
Minimum charge 7/6. Dancing till
1 a.m. Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY LATE GALA NIGHT.
Special Table d’hote Dinner, 217-
Special Supper from 10 o’clock,
12/6; or a la Carte, minimum, 12/6
Afternoon Tea Dansant——
Monday to Friday, 3.30 to 5.30, 2/6
Saturday, 4/-?
’Phone M4l 31 for your reservation.
THE “WOMAN'S MIRROR”
contains everything that women
should know—from kitchen to
drawing-room, from cradle to
old age. It is the most remark-
able threepenny - worth ever
printed.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
3d.
Under
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
ToH.M.
Kinfi
George V
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
f\
CHAMPAGNE
QiarlesllcidsiecK
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Have you
ardered
Kraft Chesse
Last Friday, as a preliminary to Be Kind
to Animals Week, the youngsters at a Syd-
ney kindergarten brought their pets with
them, at the instigation of the head teacher,
to be introduced to the pets of their com-
panions. Canaries and parrots in cages of
all sorts were soon stacked in the cloakroom.
Persians and just plain tile-walkers began
to arrive singly and in pairs. Dogs came
gambolling freely, or mincingly on orna-
mental leads. Two children brought goldfish
in glass bowls; one little girl came with a
pet wallaby. But the moment of percussion
arrived when the dogs saw the cats and the
cats saw the canaries and the fish! Yowls,
shrieks of offence and defence, shrillings
from caged pets, suddenly swung upwards,
inverted or lopsided by their holders, out of
reach of feline springs! Sounds of slaps on
bare skin as maddened little girls attacked
the owners of the four-footed attackers, who
promptly smacked back. From every corner
of the building teachers sprang like suddenly
released rockets to quell the tumult. The
bird-owners were bustled into a room by
themselves; the cats and the dogs were sun-
dered, spitting derision on one another; and
at the end of the day all was well except
with Lionel, the plump goldfish, who had dis-
appeared with a black marauder unowned by
any. Between sobs Lionel’s distressed mis-
tress bitterly reproached herself. The black
cat had followed her from a neighbor’s gate,
and as it was Be Kind to Animals Week she
hadn’t liked to chase it'away.
A prophet may not always have honor in
his own country’ but poetess Mabel Forrest
is appreciated in her own State. Queensland
has asked her to write the ode for the open-
ing of Brisbane’s new Town Hall in April,
and Harry Borradale has been chosen to
declaim it. Brisbane is also about to burst
into a musical festival, and the poetess is
thinking up the words of the opening song.
The week’s star wedding belonged to tennis
champion Daphne Akhurst and Roy Cozens,
Daphne is perhaps the most fragile-looking
sports champion in Australia, and in her
bridal souffle of white and petal pink she
looked much more capable of wielding an
egg-whisk than a racquet. The frock, which
was sprinkled over with pearls, was ankle-
length and swelled into amplitude by means
of many cunningly contrived godets. Her veil
and train were of Brussels net. Jean Herring,
Marjorie Cox (another tennis champion)
and ’groom’s sister Doreen ’maided in sweep-
ing frocks of coral-pink ninon. Daphne’s
tiny nieces, Patricia and Judith Erby,
in Kate Greenaway frocks of pink net, carried
the train. Padre W. J. Hilliard sealed the
promissory notes, and Mr. and Mrs. O. J.
Akhurst welcomed many guests at the White
City Clubhouse.
Aristocratic Sydney snatched its coronet
and coat of arms out of cold storage last
week to be prepared for the visit of Sybil
Viscountess Rhondda. But the old lady
simply bounced from the deck of the Demos-
thenes to the deck of the Otranto, so to
speak, and ere this Letter reaches you is
already on her way back to England, having
plucked the rosy fruit of the Apple Isle in
between—a quick mover. The lady, who is
interested in the Women’s Guild of Empire,
was greeted by the little group which is
hutching the venture, among them Mrs.
Pankliurst Walsh, whose mother was one of
her closest friends. Miss Fourdrinier, Mrs.
Backhouse and Mrs. A. G. Thomas were
other Guilders to the fore. The only day
the Viscountess had liere she spent at Mona
Vale. There, in the home of Lydia Marks,
she helped to launch 'another branch of the
W.G.E., which is similar to her own British
Women’s Guild. The daughter of the
dowager viscountess is a viscountess in her
own right, and besides her title has inherited
from her father (he was food comptroller
during the war) great business ability. She
is a director of almost as many companies
as he was.
Sydney Town Hall almost dreamed it had
slipped back to Mayoral glories on a day
last week when the reception rooms housed
a party instead of the usual meeting. It
was a large party, sparing of cocktails, but
simply intoxicating with flowers- —a Red
Cross farewell to Mrs. James Macarthur
Onslow, who will be this State’s delegate
at the Empire Conference. Many of the con-
sistent Red Crossers felt almost a wartime
thrill when they came upon the guard of
honor in their snow-white uniforms m the
vestibule. These were led by Rosa Piper,
whose work for the returned soldier is colos-
sal. Rosa presented a posy in red and white.
She got in early. Before the afternoon was
over the reiteration of red and white became
monotonous. Upstairs Mrs. John Garlicfe
waited, an imposing mass of red and white
blooms in her hands, for the guest. Behind
the hostess and her smart black frocking
arose a mantel bravely red and white. The
guest of honor how-do’ed in a room that was
ballasted by a floral Red Cross on a white
background and a map of Australia super-
imposed with the Red Cross design.
A lot of water has run under the bridge
since those.early days of the Red Cross when
the basement of the Town Hall was used
as a rallying-place, but Mrs. Alfred Lee
brought back old memories, by her speech,
which was mostly “I remember.” The late
David Storey’s lady, Ruby Storey, Nancy
Consett Stephen, Miss Egan and Mrs. R. R.
S. Mackinnon were notables amid the army
of faithful workers. General Macarthur
Onslow, R. J. Hawkes and Town Clerk
Layton supplied the masculine relief.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite has come
back from Europe, and the collars of her
coats are either black caracul or grey lamb.
She has one of grey lamb cut in the un-
sophisticated Peter Pan fashion on a beige
and brown tweed frock. On a black frock
which wears its cuffs of white pique the
cuffs are but a narrow band about two
inches above the wrist, tying with a rabbit-
car bow. Astrachan, when she loft London,
was good on everything, and berets were
persistently “in” and on. The classic Grecian
line is being imposed on woman tall and
short for evening frocks, but the long-all-the-
way-round style is reserved for dinner-
parties and formal occasions. Dance frocks
are either ankle-length or short in the front
and flowing into length at the back. Hand-
painted chiffons, Nottingham laces, curls in
the hair —not waves, but ringlets flat to the
head —are the thing. In short, we are to
be pretty creatures in contrast to the efficient
smart-lookers we were but a few months ago.
Among other tips are lavender-blue as the
latest color, and choker necklets. These
are studded with huge, unreal and yet lovely
stones. And, last, this latest London gag:—
“What did the toothpaste say to the toothbrush?”
“Squeeze me and I’ll meet you outside the tube.”
The yearly conference of music-teachers
is the great Easter egg prepared by the
Musical Association of N. S. Wales. The
girl in this
May M oore
picture, Ann
Jenkins, has
much to do
with the hatch-
ing. For 10
years she has
been assistant
secretary t o
the association,
and before
that she held
a similar
a p p o intment
with the Syd-
ney branch'of
the Trinity
College of
Music. To her
falls the
arranging o f
the associa-
tion’s social
amenities, and
she can justly claim to have arranged lun-
cheons and receptions to every musician and
vocalist of distinction who has visited Aus-
tralia during the past decade. Her collec-
tion of autographs is in a class of its own.
The four days of this Easter’s conference
will be packed with discussions, lectures and
concerts —most of them in the King’s Hall,
in Hunter-street, but the Conservatorium
String Quartet will have the impressive
Great Hall of the Uni. for its chamber music
events, and St. Mary’s will suitably shrine
a recital of sacred music by Livingstone
Mote’s choir. A reception to the returning
Bacldiaus is another fixture in the tightly-
packed four days.
As a host Mr. Chandeze, general manager
of the Messageries Maritimes, is invincible.
His luncheon last Friday to a group of the
woolbuyers of Sydney and their ladies owed
its success as much to his personality as
to the marvellous array of dishes served
by the chef. The guests were warned that,
this being Friday, the bill of fare would be
maigre. What it would be on Sunday must
stagger the greatest trencherman. A long pro-
cession of hors-d’oeuvres was followed by an
incomparable souffle and so many other deli-
cacies that at least one luncher wanted to
give three cheers for the cook. There could
obviously be only one valid reason against
travelling in the Eridan—it would not be
humanly possible to arrive at your journey’s
end with a slim silhouette.
The Eridan carries about 40 saloon pas-
sengers, and the cosy little dining-room, a
soft glow of indirect lighting, is panelled
4n olive wood polished till it resembles
light amber satin. Its tables when not in
use are covered with thick dark blue linen
covers, and here and there a lyrebird is
worked into tne scheme. Uut of compliment
to Australian waters its wails are decorated
with scenes of abos. hsnmg and hunting.
Another compliment is tne biue-aud-white
harbor scene showing the Enueavor, That
is in the music-room. Here tne woodwork
is maple, even that in the grand piano,
althougn it is grey to tone witn the uphol-
stery, which adds old-rose to grey. In this
music-room there is a great silver vase
embossed with banana leaves in gold. Tou
wonder if it is a christening xont, but decide
it is too high for that. Then you think
it is an urn tor the ashes of departed.
And then somebody presses a switch and you
hud it is a new lorm of standard lamp.
This is the only lignt visible in the room;
all the other illumination comes through
the ceiling. The cardroom is a replica of
an old manor in Normandy. On the walls
are tapestries of a brave mediaeval company
setting forth to the hunt and then spiritedly
engaging in it. There is a dresser hned witn
via Trovengal china. There are settles
against the walls, and the pillars of the
room are great barley-sugar columns to repre-
sent the winepresses oi tile period. Even
the outer wall carries on the picture and
is of mellow bricks. There are cabins de
luxe with outsize wardrobes and with bath-
room tiled in yellow and blue, ami a lug-
gage recess nearly as large as a whole room
in some hats. Great plate-glass windows
everywhere let in views of the deep and dark
blue ocean to the biue-and-gold interiors.
Eridan is the name of a star. One fleet
of the Messageries is named after constel-
lations, another after historic castles, still
another carries the names of great rivers.
The graceful Mrs. de Possel acted as hostess
at the luncheon, and she and the captain
and Mrs. Tlievenet and Mrs. Jacques Play-
oust and Mrs. Brenac led the rehearsal of the
cotillion which was the feature of Saturday
night’s dance. Instead of the usual favors,
each fair carried a powder putt, and when
she desired to change partners she simply
leaned over and dabbed the puff lightly on a
passing male's cheek.
Dr. Fanny Reading is enjoying the sensa-
tions of a woman who has realised a dream,
for the superstructure of an Australian Nat-
ional Council has been added to. the Council
of Jewish Women to which she has given
so much energy. Dr. Reading formed the
first of the councils in Sydney seven years
ago; and she has gone to each of the other
centres to forge links until a perfect chain
has been secured. There are still dreams
ahead: the N. S. Wales organisation has
land near Hyde Park where a council-house
is to be erected; it will be a hostel where
new arrivals, visitors or Jewish children who
have to attend school in Sydney away from
their homes will be accommodated.
Comfortably equipped with five languages,
Dr. Mattei could easily have been the big-
noise at the Lyceum Club the other after-
noon when the wives of the Consuls in
Sydney were gathered for a tea-drinking.
Italy, in the person of Mrs. Grossardi, was
smart and slim in a black printed satin three-
piece made with the very fashionable three-
quarter coat. Black was the choice of Mrs.
Ivuraz, the wife of Czecho-Slovakia’s
Consul, and black and white predominated
in the apparel of Mrs. Busing, who is just
back from a visit to Germany, which her
husband represents. Japan, Finland, China,
Greece and the Netherlands were other
countries that flavored the gathering. Over
all the music of Gwen Selva, Eleanor Stan-
ton and Mrs. Leonard Dare ebbed and flowed.
Tighten your suspenders, all ye Bluestock-
ings ! That bachelor Professor 11. W. Davies
of whom this Letter told you (with picture)
a few months ago has arrived to fill the
chair of physiology and pharmacology at the
Sydney Uni. Here’s inside information. He
fancies himself as a golfer and lie’s nuts on
Beethoven. His father is director of the
Elder Conservatorium of Music in Adelaide.
And everybody knows how precious the
intelligentsia of Adelaide is. He was cap-
tain in the A.M.C. and medical officer of the
9th and lltli Field Ambulances. Oxford,
Edinburgh and Leeds Universities have left
their mark on him, and he did research work
at the Rockefeller Institute in conjunction
with the brilliant Dwyer and Van Slyke.
The Mauglians make a hobby of the
Broughton and Forrest Exhibition, which
entitles its holder to three years at Cam-
bridge or Oxford. David Wilfrid Barton
Maughan has just plucked it; his' father
David, the K.C., won it in 1891; uncle John
Maughan won it five years later; uncle E.
A. Barton (son of brilliant Toby, our first
Prime Minister) followed him. The Exhi-
bition ranks in value next to the Rhodes
Scholarship, carries with it £225 a year, and
is an endowment of the King’s School. The
present holder is C. I. Cameron, son of the
headmaster of Milton Grammar.
At the end of the month the Charles
Billyard Lcakes are off to darkest Africa
once more. The call of the wild-animal is in
their ears, and they are polishing rifles and
such like.
Another name well known to Australia
was entered in the marriage register when
the lines between Leo Parer, brother of the
aviator, and Lena Carlton were inscribed.
Lena, incidentally, is a cousin of Olympic
athlete Jimmy Carlton.
St. Philip’s on Church Hill blessed Mar-
jorie Cox and Jack Crawford’s venture into
matrimony. Marjorie, who is a famed tennis
player, is the daughter of the Thomas Henry
Coxes, of Camden. Jack, who comes from
Bondi, will have to tear himself away from
his bride on the 11th, when he sails by the
Naldera as captain of the Australian Davis
Cup team.
Blaine de Chair is to make her farewell
bow to Sydney audiences in a performance
of A. A. Milne’s “Ivory Door,” at the Savoy,
Bligh-street, on March 18-20. The proceeds
of the theatricals are to go towards the
X-Ray installation at St. Luke’s Hospital
and the Girl Guide Association.
Isa Lorimer, the girl in the picture, is one
of the brightest ingredients in the cabaret
programmes at
the Playbox.
In everyday
life she is a
teacher of
eurhyt hmic s
and of Grecian
and stage
dancing, and
she is billed
to interpret
“A Passionate
Love Story”
next Friday in
the basement
theatre at the
corner of
Crown a n d
Oxford streets.
The cabarets
are dated for
the first Fri-
day in each
month, and the
performers are
always bright and particular stars from
Duncan Macdougall’s band of enthusiasts.
The invitations for next Friday are in
rhymes, for which publicity writer Moyna
Martin is no doubt responsible. One verse
whets the appetite :
A black magician has been engaged,
And a one-act play
In the Playbox way
Will leave the Puritans all enraged.
The boys of the Empire Service Club are
preparing another of their potpourri show's
in aid of the Anzac Fellowship of Women.
These youngsters, who have come to Australia
under the eye of the New Settlers’ League,
are most grateful to the helpers at the
Club, and their amateur shows are got up as
a sort of illuminated address to Dr. Mary
Booth and Mrs. Jessica Lee, both ardent
Anzac Fellowship members.
The Wentworth Cafe and Palm Court,
which have just passed through the hands of
the painters and decorators, will be reopened
on Saturday afternoon, March 8. In the
evening the dancing season will commence at
the same address.
With £6O in view, the committee of the
testimonial to Mrs. Fotheringhame met in
cheerful fashion within the reception-rooms
of the Town Hall last week. As this was
the first meeting, and the bridge party which
is the backbone of the fund is not till May 2,
the workers have large hopes.
Maxine Foy, eldest daughter of Mark, just
returned from Singapore, is another who is
about to plunge. Mark McGahey, a planter
in the Malay States and a good Australian
still, is the encouragement.
How disappointing is the show of fine
needlework in the National Gallery ! Though
the first example was bought for it as far
back as a quarter of a century ago, the
earliest pieces shown in the glass cases in
the vaults of the Gallery date only to 1914.
These are by M. Cortis Stanford and are
conventional designs in blue, grey and mauve.
Eirene Mort and Susan Gether are among
early exhibitors, and a thistledown of a
doyley by Mrs. Bertha Maxwell is among
the latest acquisitions. None of this work
permits of any great or flowing design; and,
truth to tell, judged by National Gallery
standards, it is neither very striking in
conception nor very decorative. The most
successful in applied design is Muriel
Cornish, on whose white work the waratah
blooms realistic if rather antemic. Here are
no locally-wrought ecclesiastical embroideries.
There is a complete absence of symbolism, and
nothing of Jacobean lavishness. Perhaps it
is that the Australian woman pours her
artistry through brush and pencil, and is
content that her forebears should have all
the credit of this painting with the needle.
OVERHEARD.
He ( importantly ) : “I surprised a kidnapping this
morning! ”
She: “Heavens! Did you tell the police?”
He: “Why should I? It was in its mother’s arms.”


è
\
BRAMK
of
TO A
PRACTICAL
UNDERSTANDING
ELECTRICITY
PRICE 20/-
POST FREE
AUDEL’S HANDY BOOK OF
PRACTICAL ELECTRICITY
A quick, simplified ready reference, giving
complete instruction and inside informa-
tion. Handy to use. Easy to understand.
For Engineers, Professional Electricians,
Students and all interested in Electricity.
A reliable authority and a handy helper
for every electrical worker.
INFORMATION
The 10J/0 panes and 2600 diagrams give
accurate, up-to-date and complete infor-
mation on: Rules and Laws, RADIO,
Storage Batteries, WIRING DIA-
GRAMS, Power and House Wiring,
Automatic ’Phones, Auto Ignition, Motor
Troubles, ARMATURE WINDING,
Cable Splicing, Elevators and Cranes,
Sign Flashers, Transformers, Practical
Management, Modern Applications—
READY REFERENCE on every elec-
trical subject. Pocket Size, handsomely
bound in flexible Red LEATHER.
ẃ
ẅ
ABDEL’S CARPENTERS 8 BUILDERS’ GUIDES
1600 PAGES—37OO ILLUSTRATIONS.
Audel’s New Guides consist of four handy pocket-size volumes of over 1600 pages
of practical data, thoroughly illustrated with 3700 charts, diagrams, including
calculations for every job from making the excavation to constructing the com-
plete building.
4 VOLS., PRICE 30/-, POST FREE
N.S.W. BOOKSTAII CO., LTD.
TECHNICAL BOOKSHOP,
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
• *s. -m mm»
. ■ ■ ... a
m
mm
FORSTER’S STEEL
GARAGE SHELVING.
STORE YOUR STOCK IN
FORSTER’S STEEL SHELVING
PROVIDES GREATER SPACE-—STRONGER THAN WOOD
Many business houses are now installing Steel Shelving for greater storage
efficiency, and Forster’s Adjustable Steel Shelving is playing a leading part
in this progressive trend.
Steel Shelving gives increased storage space, is fire-resisting, more attractive,
has double the strength and life of woodwork, and its first cost is the last cost.
Whatever your line of business, consider the many advantages of storing
your stock in steel.
Forster’s Steel Shelving can be made to your own design
and specifications. Plans supplied free after consultation.
Let us know your requirements.
FORSTER’S STEEL
CLOTHES LOCKERS
For
Garages—
The illustration above shows Forster’s All-steel Garage
Shelving. This is but one of our stock designs. Others are
for STORES, BANKS, LIBRARIES, HOSPITALS, OFFICES, MUSIC SHOPS, ETC.
w
Shelving, Closets, Bins, Cupboards.
For every storage need.
WRITE NOW, OR CALL, FOR FURTHER INFORMATION.
I
HbeW
i
Hi
hh
n
msm
111551
>,., —< — -,
FORSTER’S
STEEL CLOTHES LOCKERS.
FORSTER’S BEDSTEADS LTD.
MARY ANN STREET,
ULTIMO, SYDNEY. : M 4247 (3 lines).


BUYERS
GOING
ABROAD
will find it profitable
to visit the
PARIS TRADE FAIR
MAY 17 TO JUNE 1, 1930.
This annual exposition embraces practically
every branch of manufacture and production.
Complete particulars available from
THE FRENCH TRADE COMMISSIONER,
Kembla Buildings, Margaret Street, Sydney.
SOON PARTED.
“The fool and his money are soon parted” is as trite a -quotation as
could be selected, but it has the disturbing effect of being so true that it
cannot be disregarded.
No financial institution, least of all a Savings Bank, could advocate that
money should be saved only and not spent. It is true that wise spending
is as necessary as wise saving, but it is quite obvious that the saving
must come first.
That is where the widespread service of the Commonwealth Savings Bank
of Australia comes in. It provides every facility for the circulation of
money under the easiest and most profitable conditions.
Every Post Office in Australia is an Agency of this Bank, and in every city,
every town, every district in the Commonwealth the Savings Service of the
Bank is made available to the people.
Cbmmonwealtl) SavmQs JBank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
MEN ARE HUMAN
BY VANCE PALMER.
EsTY
DARYL; LINDSAY
Synopsis : Boyd McCurdie had
left Abernethy station before the
war to study laxo in Sydney, where
he enlisted. There were other rea-
sons for his going. His mother had
been dead some years, and his father
had proposed marrying again. Also,
old McCurdie’s dominating energy had
rather overwhelmed him. Meanwhile,
McCurdie had married, but his young
wife had never become quite recon-
ciled to station life. McCurdie, who
had represented his electorate in Par-
liament, had lost the seat over too-
pronounced utterances during the
war, and financial troubles had made
him sell out various station and other
interests and concentrate on Aber-
nethy. The story begins with him
anxiously awaiting Boyd’s return after
years at the war. At Abernethy
Boyd feels influences at ivork to
hold hixn to the station. He meets
again Josie Duncan, who has black
blood in her and is the home-
stead housemaid. Also, he is visited
by Barbara Mahon —as she formerly
was. She has married during Boyd’s
absence a doctor named Day, and is
temporarily up from Sydney, house-
keeping for her brother Leo. Boyd
senses that there has been a break
between Barbara and her husband.
He visits Barbara several times, and
eventually decides to stay, though his
father does not like to give over the
reins altogether. Boyd dislikes and
distrusts Billy Mace, a rolling-stone
horsebrealcer, who is paying some atten-
tion to Josie. He would not have given
Mace even a temporary jobj the pre-
sent instalment opens just after old
McCurdie has promised Mace a per-
manent post. Meanwhile, Mrs. McCur-
die (Ada) has sensed that Barbara is
in love with Boyd, and has told
McCurdie,
CHAPTER XIII.
Two Women Watch a Race.
The races had been fixed for the
first day of the year, and from
early the previous morning people
came driving in from every direction,
till the night-paddock looked like a mining-
camp at the beginning of a rush. A
staring, merciless sun that had risen like a red
coat was tempered before noon by a cool
breeze that raised little whirly-whirlies of dust
where the grass had been worn bare. Dusty
motor-cars glided in, laden with people and
portmanteaus, the light flashing from their
wind-screens; buggies and sulkies slunk in
more modestly, halting at the yards; horse-
men from a hundred miles away slipped as
casually from their saddles as if they had
come for an afternoon call and greeted one
another with careless nods. It was less like
an organised gathering than a swarming of
primitive tribes. In something the same
manner, generations before, had the blacks
come together for their winter re-unions,
trailing in from their camps along the creek,
happy, expansive, whole-hearted in their
surrender to the passing moment.
At the door of his office on the end of
the verandah McCurdie welcomed the men
as they came in, leading them to the table
that was covered with glasses and whisky-
bottles. From behind the haze of cigar-
smoke his voice boomed out exuberantly:
“You, Angus, old boy! How’s the new
engine working at the bore?.... Well,
Delaney, what horses have you brought
along, eh? There’s a colt of Mrs. Day’s
that’ll gallop the head off anything I’ve seen
around here lately. Lot*of hammer-headed
and herring-gutted brumbies about these
days Here’s Farquhar looking as if
he had something good up his sleeve. Been
feeding a couple of his Pontifex colts for
the last six months, haven’t you, Farquhar?
Well, fill them up again and keep them
filled. If we run dry before the last man’s
gone I’ll pay a hundred to the hospital.”
It was mainly the old hands who gathered
in the office, men like Cameron, who had
taken up Magnus Downs fifty years before
and had settled his sons on smaller proper-
ties around him; Delaney, once a boss-
drover and now the owner of a horse-
station that bred remounts for the Indian
market; and Aiken, who had brought pros-
perity to his lean holding at Warrigal
Downs a generation before by sinking the
first bore in the district. Among these men
of his own day McCurdie moved in an
atmosphere of precarious but genuine popu-
larity. He was “old Roger,” the son of that
almost legendary Sandy McCurdie who had
pushed up with cattle to the head of the
Warrego when the blacks were thick as
ants round a dead bullock, and they looked
on his bluster and extravagance with
tolerant eyes. Once when a slim figure
slipped like a ray of light across the veran-
dah to fill a water-bottle at the tank, he
stopped in the middle of a sentence and
disappeared from the room.
“God bless my soul, Barbara! I half
thought you weren’t coming!”
She drained a pannikin of water and
looked up at him incredulously, her lips wet.
“Me? Why, I’ve been here for hours and
hours, helping the women and children sort
themselves out. What a rabble! Georgie’s
pyjamas were left out, Millie’s best frock
was torn to ribbons by one of the dogs,
and Arthur must sleep with his mother be-
cause he gets frightened when he wakes
in the night! Keep a peg in the whisky-
jar, Uncle Mac, or we’ll all be lost.”
There was little dancing that night, but
before dawn the place awoke to a babel
of noise and activity. A splashing came
from the lagoon, where most of the men
had slipped out of their blankets into the
cold water; some, half-dressed, were bend-
ing over the fires cooking; others were
carrying bread and beef down from the
kitchen, where half a dozen cooks were pre-
paring breakfast for the house and men’s
quarters. Girls in summer frocks strolled
about the garden or down to look at the
pelicans by the windmill. In different
corners of the house and verandah children
aw r oke to hail one another with strident
shouts, and there was a scuttling of small
pyjama-clad figures along the gravel-paths.
“Well, how’s everything going?” Mc-
Curdie kept asking the stewards. “No hitch
anywhere?”
“None,” they assured him. “Everyone
fed and happy. We’re running the pony-
races for the children first.”
The scene on the cleared flat was one of
confusion. Cars and buggies were drawn
up around the bough-sheds, and the bright
sun glinted on polished spurs and bit-rings
as men 'cantered backwards and forwards
on horses that still tingled from the un-
accustomed currycomb and brush. Among
the growing saplings stretched the course,
losing itself in a belt of sandalwood at the
further end and coming to light again in
a long, wide straight. For diversion between
the races some of the men had rigged
themselves up as spielers, and were con-
ducting games of chance to swell the funds
of the township hospital. Delaney, his
sleeves rolled up and his hat on the back
of his head, was standing behind a crown-
and-anchor board, his red, shaven face
beaming and a stream of patter pouring
from his loose Irish mouth. Near by,
Carruthers presided over a race-game. Far-
quhar, a couple of flashy rings on his fingers
and his hair oiled so that a long lock fell
over his forehead, was doing the three-
card trick on a kerosene-box:
“Now then, ladies and gentlemen! It’s
the sharpness of your eyesight against the
skill of my hands. Watch the cards as they
fall and don’t be afraid to back your judg-
ment. Up she goes and down she goes—
find the little old lady!”
The sun swung up to noon, and there
was a clatter of plates from the booth
where refreshments were being served, but
the children were absorbed in their pony-
racing. The heats had taken longer than
was expected, and everyone had lost count
of time. McCurdie, searching round for
someone to relieve him in the judge’s box,
stopped a moment at Farquhar’s kerosene-
box to drop a ten-shilling note on the card
next him, shrugging his shoulders good-
humoredly when it turned out to be the
two of spades. He was extraordinarily
happy as he moved among the crowd,
making jokes with some boy about his
pony, and producing chocolates from his
pocket to comfort a youngster that had
fallen down. Who could have guessed that
things would go so well? Ada had proved
to be a jewel of a hostess, and, what was
more, she seemed to be really enjoying her-
self. He suddenly caught sight of Barbara
serving ice-cream to a couple of children.
“Ladies’ Plate next,” he said. “This is
where you and the black colt come in.
Where’s Boyd?”
“Haven’t an idea,” she told him. “He’s
been so busy all morning I haven’t spoken
to him once. I’ll go and look for him now.”
She found him in the creek-bed rubbing
down the black colt, and for a while she
stood watching him, reaching out a ten-
tative hand at last to stroke the quivering,
satin neck. At that contact something per-
sonal seemed to wake in her. All day her
thoughts had been scattered, diffused, less
a part of herself than of the bright, bustling
world around her. Nothing had any mean-
ing for her except what her eyes rested on
for the moment. She had let herself be
carried away on the currents of excitement
set in motion by the ringing of bells, the
thudding of hoofs, the babble of talk and
laughter after a race had been won. But
now an inner tumult began to stir in her,
making her heart flutter against her ribs.
She looked at her companion’s face, so
sober and preoccupied with the horse that
was dancing round lightly as if shod with
rubber shoes, and she had an impulse to
rouse him.
“You’ve got to win, Boyd,” she said
suddenly.
He glanced round, surprised by the inten-
sity of her voice.
“Does it matter as much as that? Well,
I’ll try. Have you looked at what we’re
up against, though? Farquhar’s got a big
bay there that has a pedigree as long as a
wet Sunday.”
“Pedigrees aren’t everything,” she said,
reaching out her hand to the horse’s neck
again.
“No,” he admitted, “but they’re damned
hard to gallop against after the first few
furlongs. This thing’s nervous as a kitten.
It may prove to have the heart of one, too.”
Going to the back of the crowd she found
an empty car and climbed in, sinking back
among the cushions.
The voices of the amateur spielers had
ceased, except for the jovial roar of De-
laney, who was making a book for the chief
event of the day. Dust had begun to rise
round the booths, and bits of tom paper
were blowing about, frightening the horses.
Under a box-tree a little to the rear Far-
quhar was standing smoking a cigarette
while a blackboy saddled his wife’s big bay.
He had changed into white silk riding-
trousers and a maroon jacket, and looked
light and alert, his dark, rather prominent
eyes flashing out aggressively from under
his peaked cap. Presently there was a
slight stir among the crowd as Boyd came
riding up from the creek, the black horse
pirouetting on three legs and trying to get
its head down. When a dog ran in front
of it, it gave a nervous jump to one side,
nearly crashing into the tree where Far-
quhar wits standing. The latter swung into the
saddle and put his horse alongside Boyd’s.
“It’s between you and me, McCurdie,”
he said lightly. “How about a level fiver
on the result?”
“Done!” laughed Boyd, “but it’s taking
the rest »f the field a bit cheap.”
“Oh, we’U make them cheaper still when
the flag drops,” said Farquhar.
In a few minutes they were away, the
black colt taking the lead with its head
high in the air. There was a field of
seven, and they held well together, though
Farquhar on the inside was keeping his
bay well in hand and watching the others.
The thunder of their hoofs died away in
the distance, and as they swung round the
belt of sandalwood a flock of greenleeks
flew out with a harsh screech and went
whirring away into the shelter of the high
gums. The last glimpse of the horses
showed Boyd well ahead on the black colt,
his hat off and his red sash flaring vividly
in the hard sunlight.
Barbara, standing up in the back of the
car, felt her nails cutting into the uphol-
stered seat as she strained for a sight of
their reappearance.
Suddenly her eyes fell on a figure a few
yards away, standing in the same attitude
of rapt concentration as herself. It was
Josie Duncan, her body poised and still, her
slack mouth ajar, and her fingers clutching
at an empty tray. All morning she had
been engaged in making tea and carrying
it round, and now in the excitement of the
race she had gained a few minutes’ respite.
Gradually, as though in anticipation, she
raised herself on tiptoes, her head held high
and the pulses beating in her throat. There
was a lightness about her, a buoyancy, the
sense of an upward surge and lift in the
whole body. Almost as though she were
some wild bird, making itself ready for
flight!
“Here they come!” shouted a man in
front. “McCurdie in the lead.”
“No, Farquhar.”
“McCurdie, I say.”
The bunched mass of horsemen came
swinging round the curve, the black colt
running wide and fighting for its head.
There was a dull reverberation of hoofs in
the air, the clamor of many voices. Sud-
denly a lean dog rushed out from the side
of the track, and the black colt swerved
aside and crashed into a thick growth of
saplings.
There was a groan from half a hundred
throats, a scream from some of the women.
“It’s smashed him up!” cried Farquhar’s
wife hysterically.
“Shoot that infernal dog!” roared the
deep voice of McCurdie.
“It’s all right,” shouted someone above
the din. “He’s bringing it round.”
“He is, by the Lord! 'He’ll win yet.”
Barbara’s hand was at her throat as if
to check any utterance, and her knees
trembled beneath her. She saw Josie Dun-
can drop the tray and run forward just as
Boyd, his shirt tom to ribbons and the
red sash flying behind him like a streamer,
swerved out from the timber and raced up
the straight, lying low on the colt’s neck.
But though he flashed ahead of the ruck
his chance of winning the race had gone.
Farquhar’s big bay was stretched out like
a greyhound, and as they shot past the
post the black colt was a full length in
the rear.
Barbara sank back among the cushions,
listless and inert. Something more than
disappointment at a lost race seemed to
lay its hand upon her spirit. She saw
Farquhar canter back, his polished spurs
and stirrups glittering in the sun, and his
dark face shining with complacency. Be-
hind him Boyd ambled slowly, his forehead
knitted, in a frown and his torn shirt faintly
stained with blood. There were profes-
sions of sympathy from the women, who
were preparing to leave, and among the
little knot of blacks at the side of the track
a hot dispute about the ownership of the
yellow dog, which seemed to be traced
finally to Billy Mace, the hox-sebreaker.
(Continued on page 51.)


Catanach’s Prices
ẁ
Always Exactly Right
24,870 —Fine Diamonds, 7-
Stone Ring, with Square
Centre, 18ct. Gold and Plati-
num Settings, £22
24,855 —Dainty 6-Stone Ring,
18ct. Gold and Platinum
Setting, set with fine quality,
double-cut Brilliant Diamonds,
£2O
m,
24,887 —Two Fine Diamonds,
with Diamond-set Shoulders,
18ct. Gold and Platinum
Settings, £45
24,583 —Dainty 7-Stone Dia-
mond Ring, 18et. Gold and
Platinum Set, £22
24,804 —Four Fine Diamonds,
18ct. Gold and Platinum
Settings, £2O
24,920—Dainty White Gold
and Platinum Ring, Finest
Quality Blue White Diamonds,
9 Stones, coronet-set, £35.
May be had in White or
Yellow Gold, with Platinum
Settings, either Coronet, Mille
Grained, Hexagon or Octagon
Centres.
ẃ
24,918 —Finest Quality, Un-
usual and Dainty White Gold
and Platinum 7-Stone Ring,
with Centre Stone , set in
Square Effect, £2O
24,886 —Dainty Diamond Ring,
15 Stones, Split Shoulders,
18ct. Gold and Platinum
Settings, £4O
B
24,911—Dainty Cluster Ring,
Finest Quality Diamonds, 11
Stones, 18ct. Gold and Plati-
num Settings, £2O
In White Gold and Platinum,
£22/10/-
24,919 — Finest Quality Blue
White Diamond, White Gold
and Platinum, Split Shoulders,
with Centre Stone in Square
Effect, £45
24,888 —This Dainty Ring,
with fine Single Stone Dia-
mond Centre and 14 small
stones in shoulders, 18ct. Gold
and Platinum Settings, £4O
In Solid Platinum, £45
b■•re-
-24,874 —Fine Diamond, with
16 Diamonds in shoulders,
18ct. Gold and Platinum
Settings, £65
W-McF.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
R[?] C[?] [?] for [?]
Buckley [?]Nunn [?]
[?]
Transparent materials were all the vogue
for Newmarket Day at Flemirigton, and
many a chiffon that had been barred by the
contrary weather earlier in the season had
a day out in radiant sunshine. Scattered
here and there among the glad display of
summer clothes were a few autumn models
of the new vintage. The pleasure of being
first in the field in this respect mnst have
carried penalties of discomfort, for it was
a very warm day. Visitors to the course
were in raptures over the flower-boxes that
border the big stand, and the standard roses
that shed petals and perfume over beds of
scarlet begonias around the lawns. The
G.-G. accompanied Lady Stonehaven, who
wore black satin and black felt millinery, the
headgear relieved by a soupcon of white.
The State vice-regals were in their box with
sundry guests, Lady Somers wearing filmy
raiment patterned in pink, blue and fawn
flowers, with a dark-red hat.
Mrs. Arthur Staughton’s ninon frock
blended biscuit and black, and her black
straw hat was velvet-trimmed. Mrs. Caut-
ley Shaw, from India, cheered an all-black
turnout with a crimson parasol. Mrs.
Charlie Lyon, who returned from England
only a few weeks ago, looked slimmer than
of yore in a black satin gown with a becom-
ing shady hat. Mrs. W. Mortill wore her
Ascot gow-n of fine silk lace in tones of
mushroom and black. Justice McArthur was
there with his daughter Mrs. Mclntosh, who
sported a magpie blend. The Clarke lady’s
chiffon, gown was of blurred pink tones with
matching straw hat. Mrs. Russell Clarke,
just back from European travel, wore cob-
webby ninon of fairy blue. The Lud Mayor
was with Mrs. Luxton, whose chiffons
blended brown and biscuit hues. An attrac-
tive bit of diaphanous wear was that of Mrs.
Herbert Lillies, which had a dull green
ground patterned in poppies and bornflowers.
Mrs. Stuart Brunton was in a gown of bur-
gundy shade, and her daughter Gladys
featured deepest primrose in frock and hat.
Mrs. Byram Gowan had a mastic straw hat
above an ensemble frock of ninon mingling
dull greens and yellow. Others on the lawn
were Mrs. Neil Lawrence and her daughter,
lately returned from a trip to India; Mrs.
T. J. Ryan, in pale grey; Mrs. Pat Osborne
(N.S.W.), in black and white: Mrs. A. V.
Hiskens: and Mrs. R. A. D. Hood, of Hex-
ham. Some very long skirts made then-
appearance among the autumn modes;
one lady carried her train by the old-
time ribbon loop upon her arm; another
trailed over the lawn a wealth of grey crepe
de Chine which was moored to a bodice of
black silk.
Though polo has been played here for 50
years it has never aroused much public
interest and remains as much a social ritual
as a sport, with the attendance at matches
limited to relatives and friends. There
was the usual select assembly at Moonee
Valley on Friday, afternoon, when Harden
and Caramut battled for the Australasian
Gold Cup. Honors were even at the end
of the sixth cliukka, and in a thrilling extra
round the N.S.W. team (the holders) scored
the winning goal. Prior to this event a heat
of the Stradbroke Cup was played between
Seven Creeks A and Camperdown, after
which all hands—or rather all feet —joined
in a communal effort to obliterate hoofmarks.
Numerous patrons, led by the vice-regals,
helped to stamp out the damage. It was
an unusual sight here, though m England
it is often done between matches. Lady
Stonehaven, in ivory cloth with a brignt
blue hat, busily worked her white-shod feet,
and Lady Somers, in checked frock of grey
and navy with a red hat, was also on the
tread-mill. The G.-G. and Lord Somers were
at it, too. Miss Halford, an English visitor
was in the v.-r. enclosure, and the Fair-
bairn, Chirnside and Winter-Irving clans
were strongly represented at the meeting.
The Western District contingent included the
Douglas Boyds, the Staughtons and various
Russells. A visitor from N.S.W. was Mrs.
H. G. Osborne. Lord Somers was a member
of the victorious Moonee Valley team in the
match against Seven Creeks B, which con-
cluded the first day’s play in the Stradbroke
Cup. Beautiful weather favored the appear-
ance of summery gowns and dainty para-
sols.
The most notable private hop for years
was that staged at St. Kilda Town Hall on
Thursday night by the P. Warford Meins
and Claude Palmers, which drew local and
western district society into its vortex. It
was a coming-out dance for Patricia Mein
and Valerie Palmer, and half a dozen other
debs, were allowed to take the same oppor-
tunity. Golden and orange flowers and
shaded lights spangled with butterflies made
an aureate setting for frocks of gorgeous
shades that dipped and floated in trains and
uneven hem-lines, or rustled in billows of
folds and pleats. Black moire with a
glimpse of pink was the choice of Mrs.
Mein, her daughter wearing white ninon,
with pearl and crystal embroidery. Mrs.
Palmer chose black chiffon, and her chick
Valerie’s frock was of equal quantities of
white taffeta and tulle. All the other buds
wore white save Josephine Webster, who
was clad in pink. Among the social neophytes
were the Russell Clarkes’ Marjorie and the
Philip Russells’ Mary. Among the older
dancers were the lan Curries, Mrs. Currie
elegant in black draperies; Justice and Mrs.
Starke; the Arthur Staughtons, she wrapped
about in grey ninon ; Mr. and Mrs. Norman
Brookes; and the Gerald Cummings, of
Jellalabad, whose daughter Joan was one
of the girls socially launched that evening.
The Otway Falkiners’ dance to introduce
their daughter Lawre, who has just finished
her schooling abroad, was staged at the
Robert Knoxes’ home at Toorak on Saturday,
and gathered in a crush of society. The
chatelaine of Widgiewa was a commanding
figure in georgette of the palest green, much
tucked, with a sprinkle of olivines and
rhinestones. White moire poplin, draped at
one side and frilled at the other, was worn
by the deb., find Miss M. Falkiner had a
trail of convolvulus on one shoulder of a
filmy lace frock of hyacinth blue. Silver
tissue gleamed beneath the flowered-blue
draperies of Mrs. Robert Knox. Sam Hor-
dern, of Sydney, and his lady were guests,
she in claret-liued lace. Betty Willsallen,
in pale blue, was another vistant from the
Harbor City. Phyllis Bray, of South Aus-
tralia, was set off in apple-green. The Falk-
iner clan was represented by Mr. and Mrs.
Leslie Falkiner and several others, and there
were many Clarkes. Gorgeous flowers deco-
rated the ballroom, and crimson roses rioted
about the supper tables.
Announcement of the fact that they are
grown up was made by two nice girls on
Friday night when Justice Starke’s wife
and medical-knight Richard Stawell’s lady
were hostesses of a dance. The misses in the
spotlight were Monica Starke,_ who had a
sparkle of silver on her soft white frock, and
Anne Stawell, whose white crepe romaine
gown had a large bow as its only trimming.
The ballroom of No. 9, flower-bedecked and
cheery with pink shaded lights, held a crowd
of guests. Mrs. Starke’s gown blended with
oxidised embroidery and lace, one of the new
tints known as dahlia, and the Stawell lady
was wrapped about in black lace. Her elder
daughter Elizabeth sported the latest green
in her georgette raiment. White-clad Diana
Mann, daughter of Justice and Mrs. Mann,
and Dr. and Mrs. Gerald Weigall’s Barbara,
in frock of white fisher net and taffeta, were
debutantes. Chief Justice Knox and Frank
Gavan Duffy and his lady w r ere there, but
the company was mainly made up of the
younger generation.
As charming as one of her own portraits
is this dainty young artist, Constance Parkin,
winner of the
travel ling
scholarship of
our National
Gallery, with
a figure group
in oils which
marked the
close of her
five years at the
Gallery under
Bernard Hall.
The artist,
pictured here
by Lafayette,
also won the
Ramsay prize
with a three-
quarter-length
portrait, hut
as she had won
the more im-
portant re-
w a r d, the
lesser prize
passed to the runner-up. A nude study
brought further laurels. Miss Parkin, who
is an ex-student of Genazzano Convent, re-
ceived her first drawing lessons there from
Miss S. Cochrane. As she cannot go abroad
just yet, she has set up a studio at her
Brighton home, and already has commissions
for portraits in hand.
Serious competition with the afternoon
sessions of the talkies was offered by a series
of fashion parades last week. Buckley and
Nunn’s led off, and the promoters of the
show stood aghast when the first contin-
gent of women arrived nearly two hours be-
fore mummer Jessica Harcourt was due to
lead the mannequins in a what-will-be-worn-
in-the-autumn revue. The lengthening of our
gowns which has caused so much debate is
to be broken to us gently. The sports suits,
day frocks and topcoats were just below
the knee. Evening gowns ranged from
half-mast, with lengthier bits at the
sides or back, to diaphanous raiment that
swept the carpet. Tweeds in red,
fawn and brown check and fancy de-
signs led in coats and skirts and golf
attire, and tweed topcoats, with great fur
collars and cuffs, showed further efforts to
popularise the woollen material —a cause for
hearty Australian cheers. The very becom-
ing shade of bottle-green made a welcome
reappearance in frocks of varying weights
and wraff-over coats of face cloth. The most
remarkable vagary of fashion noticed was
that cloaks have grown shorter, maybe to
display the extra quantity of stuff used in
the flares of the modiest party frocks.
This is Sheila Shannon, daughter of the
Frank Shannons, of St. Kilda, who is the
latest society girl to take up the stage as a
profession. The bright maiden, who is
pic t u red by
Spencer Sliier,
was due to
make her first
bow in Adel-
aide in the
musical show
“Love Lies,” a
London suc-
cess imported
by the Edg-
ley and White
manage ment,
Miss Shannon
attract e d
attention as
one of a bunch
of dancers
known as the
Embassy
Eight, who
pirouetted in
the cause of
charity. She
also was leader
of the state Theatre ballet for a while.
Jennie Brenan taught her to point a grace-
ful toe. i
The Myer emporium served up afternoon
tea with its parade of finery. Mannequins
promenaded round the tea-tables, showing a
bewildering array of wear for the winter.
From the skimpiness of material of last year
costumieres have rushed to the other extreme
of using as much material as possible. Sports
suits have pleated skirts, ensembles run to
long coats of 1-length, and the fussier frocks,
with their added inches and width of skirt,
all contain a lot more stuff. Even the fur
coats have a bigger allowance of pelt in their
huge high collars. Of course there was an
array of beautifully-cut tweeds of French
and English manufacture — : wliy on earth do
we have to import them ? —and of tailored
garments of the new Jersey cloths. Very
smart was a tweed coat-frock for sports
wear, beneath which matching “plus-fours
were visible. Gorgeous evening gowns dipped
their straying draperies at all angles. One,
of chiffon, mingled Iceland-poppy shades;
another was parma violet. Fancy net con-
stituted a forget-me-not blue frock that had
flounces from the tightened hip-line melting
into white tulle at the hem.
The chief attraction of Cann's parade was
wedding finery. The outstanding gown was
of deep parchment-toned satin that fell in
expensive elegance about the slim wearer,
a veil of a darker tint of lace being anchored
to a semi-halo of orange buds. The accom-
panying bridesmaids’ frocks, from the same
French designer, established a mediaeval
atmosphere, being of crimson chiffon velvet,
very full of skirt with matching small hats
of felt and velvet. Evening-party frocks of
brocaded chiffon and floral velvets had
skirts ornamented with many ends and bits.
Where the firmer silks, such as taffeta,
grosgrain and moire were used, the skirts
were voluminous. A delightful sample of
this style was of garnet red the
small bodice having a narrow basque. Some
of the new colors which we are likely to see
when winter comes are hunter’s green and
ox-blood, the latter a brown blended with
tones ranging from royal purple to almost
ruby.
Country Week tennis tournaments at
Ivooyong were interrupted by rain and gales,
and forced intervals in the programme were
devoted to bridge, in the safe shelter of the
club-house verandah. A slab of winter was
provided for the dance at the club-house in
honor of the visitors, but that was an aid
rather than otherwise to a very pleasant
party. Mrs. G. A. Cooke and Helen Sage
trimmed up the lounge and supper-room with
lovely flowers, and the dancers had a free
run, unhampered by the trains and trails
which threaten the safety and comfort of
ballrooms in the near future.
The wedding gown worn by Lucie Victoria
Williams when she exchanged vows with
Allan Doggett at Melbourne Grammar School
chapel last week followed the latest decree
of fashion. It was of deep ivory satin, with
a long-sleeved lengthy bodice from which a
full, flared skirt descended to the ankjps, and
there were yards of train. A BrusselsJace
veil and a sheaf of white and gold tiger
lilies completed the picture. Two maidens
arrayed in chiffon, melting from flesh tint
to deep rose, and a couple of wee tram-
bearers in lace frocks with pearl-trimmed
Juliet caps made un a charming group. The
bride’s mother, Mrs. John Williams of Langi,
Toorak, wearing black with rhinestone
embroidery and fur, spread the after-feast
at No. 9.
St. John’s, Toorak, was the scene of the
knot-tying of Thirza, daughter of the Marcus
E. Wettenhalls, of the tony suburb, and John
Burnett, elder son of Mrs. J. C. Cox, of
Yaccamunda, Mininera, formerly of Claren-
don, Tassie. . White satin floating from a
hip yoke and a veil of rare old lace formed
the bride’s apparel, and a trio of ’maids
stood by in pastel shades of pink, blue and
amber chiffon with American beauty roses
tucked under the brims of their harmonising
felt hats. There were after-rejoicings at
Aberfeldie, the Toorak residence of the
bride’s uncle, Dr. Roland Wettenhall.
At Melbourne Grammar School chapel one
evening last week Lorna, eldest daughter
of the Robert T. Edgars, of Grace Park,
clad all in silver lam 6, kept an appointment
at the altar with Albert Edwin, only son of
Mr. and Mrs. A. E. Humphries, Glenferrie.
A lovely veil of old lace and a_ sheaf of
water-lilies added charm to the bridal array,
and three ’maids attended in forget-me-not
blue tulle frocks.
Mrs. J. Daniels, a cousin of Dame Mar-
garet Chisholm, left last week for England,
where she will make a long stay with her
sister the Countess of Darnley. Amongst
the entertainments to speed Mrs. Daniels’s
departure was a gaily decorated luncheon
given at the Alexandra Club by her niece
Mrs. Douglas Boyd, who is thinking of
taking her family back to the Riverina
squattage after a summer holiday. Mrs.
Boyd’s eldest daughter, whose health has
for the past year caused much parental
anxiety, is now making a fine recovery.
The Sadler Gills, who have passports
ready for a sailing on the 18th of the month,
said au revolt■ to many friends at a party
at their Camberwell house. Mrs. Edgar
Granville, daughter of the Percy Berrys, of
Woodend, shared the farewells —she is to
return to her home in England.
Another leave-taking of the week was a
dinner-party given by Mrs. Philip Glass, at
Cliveden Mansions on Saturday night, to
speed her sister, Mrs. Ormiston, on her way
to England.
After a week of fashion parades “Lom-
bardi, Ltd.,” which had its premiere at
the Comedy on Saturday night, provided
more clothes and human clothes-props.
Among local girls selected to pose as manne-
quins is Deborah Mackay Sim, whose father
is head of the P. and O', line in Australia.
There were encouraging hands from friends
for each of these frock-paraders. The
dressiest person in the show is Rowena
Ronald, whose Titian locks top gowns of
green and brown.
The very latest in taxis, a very small,
pert-looking bottle-green car with chauffeur
uniformed to match, made its appearance
on the streets last week —the first of the
fleet of the Baby Car Co., latest entrant to
the motor-for-hire field.
May Beatty’s daughter Bunny, writing
from Hollywood to friends here, says she has
been watching her mother blossom out in the
talkies. May lias an important part in “The
Benson Murder Case,” which is being
dressed with the customary disregard of
expense. We shall presently see our old
favorite wrapped in a real chinchilla, a relic
of Pola Negri, which cost that lady’s man-
agers ten thousand dollars.
Betty, third daughter of the Arthur
Moules, of Toorak, lias acquired a title. Her
marriage with Yicomte Henri de Janze, of
Normandy, was celebrated in Paris on. Febru-
ary 25.
Many happy returns were offered to Mrs.
W. A.' Whitney by a group of friends who
gathered at Pen-y-bryn, Ivew, on her 90th
birthday. Once a splendid pianist, she was
still able to give her guests a taste of her
former quality. She is a daughter of the
late Rev. Charles Price, of Launceston, and
first opened her eyes .in the Speck in IS4O.
In those days folk travelled by coach, and
Mrs. Whitney made many a tedious journey
in bitterly cold weather with convicts and
their guards perched on the coach roof.
Her husband, the Rev. W. A. Whitney, with
whom she lived in Castlemaine in this State,
died some years ago:
Ballarat’s Grammar School is about, to
part with its headmistress, Ethelwyn Rigg,
who has wangled leave of absence for a
.European holiday. The old Grammarians
Association poured tea and made apprecia-
tive speeches about the lady at a reunion
staged for the purpose. Fanny Abrams,
B'A., will shoulder the responsibilities during
the head’s absence.
Steaming back in this direction are Mr.
and Mrs. Charles Borrett. of South Yarra,
who have curtailed their time abroad by half
owing to a family bereavement which called
for their return. They are aboard the
Orford, which is due to arrive late this
month.


QtcrtD
m
mm
M
1
ffiSW
Si?
IMi
AWWSSS
3®"
or
mm
IS&f
m
A
m
m.
S 3
m
Of course I smoke/
—but
omy when it’s
State Express
333/
State (xpr^ss
333
CICARE-TTES
MADE- IN LONDON


HOME for cure of ALCOHOLISM and DRUGS
(BOTH SEXES)
Established 30 years. Highly recommended. Under medical supervision. Fully qualified matron
and staff. Effective and safe.
THE CENTRAL MISSION INSTITUTION,
Moreland Hall, Jessie Street, Moreland, Melbourne.
Telephone: Brunswick 744.
HAIR.
$
heed
r
HERES
•unuj -
w
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
&CUhmS (.MEXICAN)
Vfaltwjk StaMV
THE GREY *
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (4/6), 6d. being postage.
w
Missing' Friends.
INFORMATION is required by the Trustees
* of the will of the late Dr. F. W. W.
MORTON, of 12 Collins Street, Melbourne,
as to the whereabouts of his son Lindsay,
or, if deceased, the place and date of death.
Reward.
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS AND
AGENCY COMPANY, LTD.,
412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Legal Notice.
TORGENSEN.—WiII JAMES JORGEN-
J SEN (son of James Jorgensen, late of
Kerang, in tlie State of Victoria, Retired
Contractor, Deceased), who was last heard
of in Sydney during or about the year
1903, or any person knowing his where-
abouts or capable of giving information con-
cerning him, or (if married) his wife or
children, please communicate with bARM-
ERS AND CITIZENS’ TRUSTEES COM-
PANY, BENDIGO, LIMITED, of Charing
Cross, Bendigo, in the State of Victoria.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1753 of 1929.
BETWEEN CECIL WILLIAM VIVIAN
BARTRAM Petitioner and GLRIRUDL
FRANCES BARTRAM Respondent
and STANLEY MARRIS Co-respond-
Gilt
TO STANLEY MARRIS late of Bellevue
Pharmacy No. 5 Edgcliff Road Wool-
TAKE 3 NOTICE that the said Cecil Wil-
liam Vivian Bartram has commenced a suit
against the above-named Gertrude Frances
Bartram in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of her alleged adultery with you
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are re-
quired to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Thirteenth day of
May One thousand nine hundred and thirty
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further tune
the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be
heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the Petition filed herein
may be had on application to the under-
signed solicitors free of charge.
DATED this Eighteenth day of February
1930. , _ . .
Fol ' thC Wa’ K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
Marshland and Co., Solicitors for the
Petitioner, 26 Hunter Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your fancy, write
to the Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
Don’t forget the Benedictine
0,
(Vo
:
3
&
v
m
Q v ■
Stable at>to |rTlfJ
NO cocktail is consi-
dered complete
nowadays, without a
dash of Benedictine. The
marvellous flavour of this
rare old Liqueur enhances
the piquancy of every cock-
tail, and gives it a bouquet
that charms. The hostess
who really values the opin-
ion of her guests is never
without a bottle of Bene-
dictine for Cocktails, and
as an after-dinner Liqueur.
'Benedictine was discovered by
the Monk Vincelli in the year
1510. In addition to its un-
disputed superiority as a
Liqueur, it has highly valuable
tonic and digestive qualities.
p
For Four Centuries the World’s supreme Liqueur
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland's
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Sir John Goodwin presented the St. John
of Jerusalem decorations which make Cap-
tain Pike, general secretary of the Q.A.I.
brigade, an officer of the ancient order, and
senior-bearer Hosier a serving brother, llis
Ex. emphasised the splendid work done by
Queensland in the ambulance sphere. W.
D. Grimes, president of the ambulance, be-
comes a grade commander, and superinten-
dent Duffill, Toowoomba, will be decorated
as serving brother at Show time.
Brides-elect are receiving the usual atten-
tions. The G. W. Pearces gave a pink even-
ing for Thelma Dalzell. Neil Jumner
tea-ed Glory Jennings at Brae Lossie,
Prospect-terrace. Rita Finlay feted V lvienne
Seal, who is to be married this week at
Rothesay.
The Philip Frankes arc off to Palestine
for a trip. The Supreme Grand Royal Arch
Chapter of Queensland farewelled their presi-
dent at their rooms in Rowe’s Building, and
presented a souvenir with all sorts of goou
wishes. .. ,
Neil Macgroarty and Ins wife were enter-
tained at the Romantique Cabaret by the
Nationalist and Country Progressive parties
and their womankind. Miss A. C. Clune
received the guests in navy reversible satin.
Mrs. Macgroarty wore green chiffon with
touches of henna patterned in rustic scenes
and a sou’-wester green hat. _ Francis Noble
presented the bouquet of crimson and gold
roses. Evelyn Kelley arranged the music,
to which Mrs. Storey, Mrs. W. H. Debnam,
Gladys Rogers, Idalia Guyatt and M. Bar-
low contributed.
The Rev. Percival Watson lias been raising
his voice against vulgarity and stark realism
in the talkies in an address at the Con-
stitutional Club, lie had some fault to rind
with censors as well as producers.
The Tarampa Shire Council has been
celebrating its jubilee with some pic-
turesque pageantry. A guard of honor con-
sisting of aborigines from Barambah, in .lull
war-paint, met Home Secretary and Mis.
Petersen and the visiting Parliamentarians,
and there was a procession representative
of 50 years’ progress. A decorated bullock-
waggon carried the visitors and officials to
the showground, and a Cobb and Co. s
coach was another exhibit. Some -009
people attended. Member Arthur Morgan was
among the speakers.
Bishops attending the Lambeth Confer-
ence frequently take with them a chaplain,
but the Bishop of Carpentaria will take a
bride with him to England. Joan Cronin,
a vigorous worker at Sydney Australian
Board of Missions office, is to be the new
mistress of Bishop’s House, Thursday Island.
News of the engagement drew hearty con-
gratulations from all quarters Bishop
Davies (more generally known as Stephen
Carpentaria”) was for nine years a Charle-
ville bush brother before taking charge of a!
diocese of 600,000-odd square miles. He is
a genial churchman, who leaves his gaiters
at home when he is on his travels.
L. J. Duffy is a big blonde Queenslander
who has been struggling under the burden of the
tropics for as far back as he cares to remem-
ber. In 1911, as secretary of the Australian
Sugar Co. at Mourilyan, about 50 miles
south of Cairns, he suggested that the 200
employees should establish their own social
centre The institution is to-day not only a
godsend to the tiny population of the settle-
ment but is famous all over Bananaland.
It has its own wireless set, moving pictures
and Australian-made piano; in addition it
has a museum, a properly-catalogued his-
torical section and a library of 10,099
volumes. Such is the zeal of everybody
that old inhabitants have contributed
family heirlooms, like Scottish claymores,
and valuable prints and photos connected
with the early history of the district. Gov-
ernment departments, from the Yallourn
coalmines in Victoria to the forestry depart-
ment of Westralia, have furnished cabinets
of specimens; Dr. Young, of the British
Barrier Reef expedition, has supplied an
exhibit of coral-reef products, and there is
a fine show of butterflies from the famous
collection of Dodds, of Kuranda. It has all
been done with enthusiasm and sixpence a
week deducted from the pay of the workers.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
.Joan, daugh-
ter of Mr.
James and
M r s. Scott-
Power, whose
portrait is
shown here-
with, follows
he r father’s
footsteps in the
musical world,
and has al-
ready appeared
with him more
than once on
the concert
platform. The
little lady
made her bow
to Sassiety at
the recent
Government
House ball.
We are settling down after Race Week
and its attendant gaieties. There is no lack
of dinner dances and small shivoos, aboard
and ashore, but the big functions are over,
and summer visitors are finding their diver-
sions in the country and on the golt links.
Denith Mabel, elder daughter of the R. S.
Buttons, Launceston, walked down the aisle
of hydrangea-decorated Christ Church as
Mrs. Walter Tyson in delphinium-blue
georgette and large picture-hat in the same
shade, with tulle-edged brim. Bridesmaid Mar-
garet Perrin was in shell-pink crepe satiu
and pink felt hat with tulle brim The bride
left for the honeymoon trip to Melbourne m
a navy blue ensemble.
Muriel, daughter of the Rev. and Mrs.
S. p. H. Martin, of Melbourne, formerly ot
Hobart, and Effingham Lawrence Billop
Cressy are two new candidates for the
matrimonial stakes.
Hadley’s Hotel hummed like a hive of bees
on the night of the bridge drive promoted by
the Kingston Beach Golf Club. Over SO
tables filled the drawing-room, lounge and
billiard-room. Sweets were a side-issue,
and supper wound up the evening. Alison
Gray was organising secretary.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Their Exes, are still enjoying the cool sea
breezes of Albany. The golf links provide
recreation for Sir William and son Simon,
while Lady Campion is content with motor-
jaunts and the sparkling sunshine of Middle-
ton Beach. Mrs. Byron and Barbara Sarel!
have been guests at the vice-regal cottage.
Already there is that spice of excitement
that precedes a wedding; April 23 is the date
chosen by Wilfred Campion and Nizza
Sarell for their nuptials.
Returned travellers after only four months
abroad are Major and Mrs. Kerr-Pearse.
With them are Mrs. Selby-Smyth and daugh-
ter Pamela.
Mrs. Rowley and her son Colin waved
farewell this week from the deck of the
Baradine, bound for a, series of visits to rela-
tives in the Cold Country. Mrs. Hussey
caught the same steamer, and the James lady
will join it at Port Said. Mrs. Walter Saw
and Miss Lee Steere are oft to Ceylon for a
holiday. „ ,
The lady with the purposeful expression
caught by a Bardwell Clarke lens is Miss
Ada Bromham.
Her pet sub-
ject is social
welfare an d
she is a bus'-
ll es s woman
of ability and
g.x peri ence.
For years slie
ran a flourish-
in g drapery
store in Clare-
mont, relin-
quishing it to
take a holiday
abroad. It
wasn’t all
holiday, for
she was a
delegate to the
I n ternational
Women’s Suf-
frage Alliance
Congress i n
Paris and the.
British Commonwealth League in London.
On her return Miss Bromham opened a land
and estate agency. She will contest the
Claremont seat at the general elections m
April as a Social Welfare candidate.
Kaye Smith is getting together a trous-
seau and being lionor-guested at farewell
parties. Recently she took a turn as hostess!
garnished the winter garden of the Karra-
katta club with mauve asters, and slipped into
georgettes a-flutter with chrysanthemums and
autumn leaves. Among the bridge players
were Mrs. Bunning, Mrs. Courtney, Mrs.
Giles, Mrs. Collins, Jacqueline Wright, Bar-
bara Gee, Beth Johnston, Mrs. Tom Barker
and Mrs. Digby.
King Edward Memorial Hospital is appeal-
ing for funds for two new wards. The hos-
pital has a high reputation, its death-rate
being among the lowest in the Empire.
Dr. and Mrs. Tymms took daughter Enid
to Melbourne for her marriage with Alan
Munro. The bridal gown, of ivory moire,
was adorned with a diamente buckle at the
waist and- fell amid long flares into a fish-
tail train. A bandeau of orange buds
nestled amid the folds of the Brussels-lace
veil worn over a mesh of tulle. Rhona
Marfleet attended in white and silver over a
glimmer of shell-pink. The congratulations
were said at Menzies’.
Dr Walter Seed has bidden good-bye to
London and his job as house physician in
the Hospital for Sick Children, Great
Ormonde-street. Since his return he lias
been busy installing himself in the super-
intendent’s quarters at Perth Children’s
Hospital. His predecessor, Dr. Lindsay
Male, resigned to practise privately as a
children’s specialist.
Popular Bernie Reid is wearing a diamond
sparkler. Her fiance is M. Adolphe Raquet,
a Belgian woolbuyer.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Adelaide can give points to most cities in
the matter of successful amateur theatricals.
Close on £3OOO has been raised for charities
by this means since last November, and the
Elder Conservatorium is staging “Merrie
England” shortly to further swell the funds.
The successful shows include “Juanita,’
“Florodora,” “The Warrior” and “Foot-
notes.
The Canadian bowlers have spent a plea-
sant time in this State. The hot weather
was against public functions, but they were
accorded plenty of private hospitality.
The wedding at St. Peter’s College chapel
on Wednesday of Joyce, second daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Homburg, and Cecil
Heath, was an all-white affair. It would
have looked like a bevy of brides, for they
all carried white sheaves, but for the dis-
tinguishing veil. Audrey and Beryl Hom-
burg followed their sister, with Gwen Bruce
as third ’maid ; Bob Irwin best-manned, and
other male supports were Alec Turnbull and
Ron McDonald. The reception was held at
Fairlea, Medindie. The bride left for her
honevmoon in the Eastern States in a choco-
late-brown outfit. Her mother will leave for
England by the Orford on March 20, accom-
panied by her youngest daughter, Beryl..
Prior to his marriage Key Boykett, one
of Adelaide’s popular bachelors keenly in-
terested in all sport, was given a farewell
dinner by the. Black and White Tennis Club
at the Hotel Botanic.


é
Accommodation
160.
Central,
Comfortable,
Convenient,
5 Mts. G.P.O.
Excellent
Cuisine,
Billiards,
Dancing.
ORIENTAL HOTEL
(No License)
KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET.
TARIFF:
Weekly,
11/6 to 12/6.
Room & B’fast,
£3/3/- to
£4/4/-
Daily,
8/6 to 9/6
FL2034
F 3575
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
ŵ
CHAPTER XIV.
On the Lagoon.
That evening every door and window of
the homestead was thrown open and a
flood of soft light poured out on the wide
verandahs, on the tennis court and on the
strip of tangled garden where oleanders and
climbing roses gave out their heady scent
on the night air. A lightly-moving air that
had restlessness in it and a memory of the
emptiness out of which it had come. From
the dining-room and billiard-room the fur-
niture had been cleared out and the lino-
leums lifted, so that there was room for
everyone to dance. Before dark a jazz
band had motored in from the township;
four slick young fellows who called them-
selves the Gloomchasers and racketed
about the country in the wake of show.-, and
race meetings, finding odd jobs as clerks
and spruikers for the picture theatres when
times were dull. They established them-
selves in a corner of the verandah, the
Chinese lanterns shining on their compli-
cated instruments and their oiled hair and
their shaven faces that glowed with spuri-
ous vitality. From that little island of
light in a sea of dark mulga rose the
exotic strains of “I’m Knee-deep in Daisies,”
and the handful of men playing poker in
their tents beside the lagoon hummed the
tune over to themselves softly as they
shuffled the cards.
Nearly everyone had a partner. By some
queer process of assimilation even the older
people had drawn the modern rhythms into
their blood—men like Cameron and Aiken,
who had never danced in the old days, and
whose sinewy legs were stiff with fifty years
in the saddle. There was general regret,
especially among the women, that Boyd
McCurdie had been beaten in the last race ;
for Farquhar was not popular, and who
could be more interesting and attractive
than this young man who had come back
"Suddenly a lean dog rushed out from the side of the track.”
to manage Abernethy? Hadn’t he been
in the charge at Romani? And weren’t
all sorts of stories told of his bravery ?
Around the office at the other end of the
house a little knot of men had gathered,
attracted by the whisky and a special brand
of punch that McCurdie alone knew how
to brew. The talk centred on feats of
strength, and McCurdie was boasting of
how he had carried the carcase of a young
heifer on his back from the gallows to the
butcher’s shop.
“Five hundred if she weighed a pound!”
he repeated, “and there’s men within call
who saw me do it Not that my words
need any backing.”
He balanced himself on his widespread
legs, and there was a humorous aggressive-
ness in his eyes as he stared at the men
around him. When some of them smiled
sceptically he seized a smooth pick-handle
that was propped up in the corner, laying
his cigar on the table with a gesture.
“Doubt it, do you?” he challenged. “Well,
then, let’s see what you can do yourselves.
A fiver to any man who can pull me to my
feet!”
He was not under the influence of the
punch. Liquor rarely heated his brain, and
he drank sparingly at all times, but the
talk and the atmosphere of friendly rivalry
had sent the blood to his head. That was
the stimulant he craved, and he had never
had enough of it. Never had and never
would have! There was a crustiness in his
temper that always came uppermost at the
wrong moment driving him into his cave.
With his coat off and his white shirt-front
crumpled on his chest he sat down on the
floor, grasping the pick-handle firmly in
his hands.
“Come on, you young fellows!” he rallied
them. “A fiver to anyone who can pull me
to my feet. There’s easy money for you.”
“Go on, Mooney,” said Carruthers.
“You’re the biggest of the lot of us, and
you’ve drunk least.”
“But I’ve only the one pair of trousers,”
said Mooney hitching them up as he sat
down.
He was a tough-featured, middle-aged
man with massive shoulders and long,
powerful arms like a gorilla’s. For a long
time the two men sat straining foot to
foot, their backs bent, the veins standing
out on their foreheads and their knotted
hands. Then slowly and steadily Mooney
was drawn to his feet. There was laughter
and good-humored banter as Farquhar, Car-
ruthers and two or three others shared the
same fate, and McCurdie remained on the
floor, triumphant but dishevelled, his collar
a limp rag round his neck and beads of
perspiration shining like dewdrops on his
bald head.
“The weight counts for more than the
muscle,” said Farquhar, dusting his trousers.
“That and the knowledge of how to use it.
It’s a knack.”
“Knack be damned!” said McCurdie, ris-
ing from the floor. “Is there any other
game you know? Eh?”
It was his day and hour. They crowded
round him, drinking his liquor and assuring
him that he had roused the district to life
again and brought the old rollicking times
back. »
Late in the evening Boyd, stepping out
into the garden for a smoke, saw a gleam
of white under the fig-tree by the lower
gate. He wandered down the path, remem-
bering that he had not seen Barbara since
the second dance. She was standing with
her back to him, leaning on the fence and
looking down towards the lagoon, her \yhite
figure a luminous blur in the dim light.
At his step she turned, and he was con-
scious of her eyes, liquid and darkly intense.
“Not dancing?” he said.
“Intermittently,” she told him. “I’d a
headache.... Or thought I had one till a
few minutes ago. I came out here to get
cool What a face that boy with the
saxophone has! Like an inspired potato!
I can’t get it out of my mind.”
He sensed something strange and tem-
peramental about her. Now that he re-
membered, she had hardly spoken a word
when she danced with him earlier in the
evening.
“You’re disappointed about that race,”
he said. “I could have kicked myself for
losing when you were so keen to win. If
I’d only kept back among the ruck till near
the end”....
A low laugh bubbled from her throat. She
squeezed his wrist impulsively as if they
were girl and boy.
“Boyd, nry dear Boyd, what on earth do
you take me for? Do you really think a
lost race could give me a headache or make
me moody? No, that was all fudge pre-
tending it mattered. I haven’t thought
about it since.”
“Then come down to the lagoon and we’ll
have a row on the water,” he said.
Near the windmill was a shallow punt
that was used to take stores to the other
side when the creek was in flood. It lay
moored among the reeds, a dark blob on
the surface of the water, and reaching out
for it with a pole Boyd managed to bring
it to the bank. In silence they clambered
into it and let it drift out into the middle
of the lagoon. Neither of them was in
the mood for talking. The lights of the
homestead were shut out by the high bank,
and the night was velvet, starry, quietly
intent on its own mystery. A sense of time-
lessness was on the air, and the dark masses
of mulga on the further bank were wrapped
in an atmosphere of sombre brooding. The
only sound came from the camp across the
creek where the blacks were feasting on
a bullock that had been hanging under a
tree since the night before, protected by a
ragged mosquito-net from the flies.
Looking down into the still, inky water
that was making a sucking sound under
the punt, Barbara shivered slightly.
“You’re cold,” said Boyd, watching her.
“You’ve only got that wispy bit of a frock
on, and there’s a mist rising. Perhaps we’d
better get back again.”
“No,” she protested. “Not yet. I was
only thinking.”
She trailed her hand in the water, letting
the silence of the night eddy in on them
again. What she had really been thinking
about all evening was the wreck of her mar-
ried life, and the way she had drifted on,
waiting for some crisis that never came.
It, never would come, she felt now, unless
she took action herself to bring things to
a head. Why hadn’t she done that three
years ago, she asked herself, when Frank
first began to lose interest in her and to
let himself be seen with other women? She
didn’t know, unless it was a secret fear
of admitting she had lost her hold on him.
It would have been easier for her if Frank
had been brutal, ill-humored or flagrantly
unjust. That would have stimulated her will
and given her a tangible excuse for break-
ing from him; but she couldn’t accuse him
of any of these things. He was merely a
healthy animal, tolerant and generous in
his own way, and, above all, full of a qufe-
zical humor that nlayed lightly over the
surface of life, almost making her believe
when she was with him that nothing mat-
tered very much.
“You’ve taken your ideas of life from
novels, Babs,” she could hear him say. “All
novels are like the patent medicines pre-
pared for women. Three parts brown sugar
and one part sedative.”
Those little quips of his that made her
smile, even when she hated herself for
doing it! She had been humiliated deeply
and permanently, and she knew it; crushed
before she was fully grown. Divorce? The
idea of that had been often in the back
of her mind, but how could a woman rush
(Continued on next page.)


Tlic “Daily
Mail” says:
“We have
seen some
capital work
done by the
Artistic
Photogra p li i c
Co., Ltd.’
e
The “Daily
Mirror” says:
“A triumph
of color-
printing has
been achieved
by t 11 e
Artistic
Photogra p li i c
Co., Ltd *
A Large and BEAUTIFUL Fine Art COLORGRAVURE, after the original
painting by Elwin Edwards, on fine quality paper, 29 x 21 inches, showing
a typical English scene in the month of roses.
JUNE, MORNING”
Copyright.
Produced in Colors.
pSgißlli||W
IS
as
r-vv.-v
****
49ft
sa
is
m
msm
“JUNE MORNING.”
From the original painting by Elwin Edwards.
Of the Published
value of
ONE GUINEA
Great interest and
enthusiasm ha* been
evoked by this unique
offer, and many letters
have been received
from delighted re-
cipients, who, until
recently, have been
unable to obtain
similar works at less
than 21/- each and
upwards.
THIS OFFER is
STRICTLY LIMITED
TO ONE PICTURE TO
EACH APPLICANT.
Do not fail to fill in
your name and address
and send as soon as
possible, as the edition
is limited.
SIMPLY FILL UP THE COUPON
below and send it to THE ARTISTIC PUBLISHING
CO., LTD., 63 Baker Street, London, W.l, England,
with Postal Note for 6d. to cover the actual cost of
postage and packing, on receipt of which the Color-
gravure will be carefully packed and despatched to
your home.
FRFF COUPON for Gift Picture.
r £Y£<JU “JUNE MORNING,”
Reproduced in Colors.
To THE ARTISTIC PUBLISHING CO., LTD.
(Incorporating the Artistic Photographic Co., Ltd.),
63 Baker Street, London, W.l, England.
Sirs, —I accept your offer and enclose Postal Note for
6d. to defray the actual cost of Postage and Packing.
Please send me the Picture, together with Particulars
of your other Fine Art Reproductions, no charge being-
made for the picture.
Name
(Mr., Mrs. or Miss)
Address
S. Bul.
Under Royal Patronage. Est. 49 years.
PUNCTUALIJY
(Jke Essence of ‘'-Business.
To be on time—at all times—
is one of the greatest attributes
to success in life. Start your
boy right. Buy him an Omega
and teach him the value of
being on time!
He’ll soon learn it, if
he owns an Omega.
Bu-
n n ' n «=
Omega
//
3
st
3
K
EXACT TIME FOR
ê
HEAD OFFICE:
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
F. T. BRIDGES,
Acting General Manager.
into public to admit she had failed in hold-
ing the man to whom she had given her-
self? Especially when there had been no
open scandal! Until now it had been easier
to cover up, to come away for long holi-
days to Niva Downs, and to pretend she
was satisfied with her life, letting people
think what they liked.
That evasiveness couldn t go on any
longer, though. Something that ha.d been
torpid in her was awakening, sending out
exploring shoots, quickening her with new
■life. Huddled up in the stern she watched
Boyd’s tall figure loom above her in the
dark, one hand perfunctorily occupied with
the pole, the other holding a cigarette. She
was in love with him—she knew that now—
more desperately in love than she had ever
been with Frank, even in those first spring
days when they had wandered out on the
plain that was starred with everlastings.
A mysterious excitement possessed her,
making her heart flutter like a prisoned
bird in her breast. Never once since they
met again had he given her any sign that
he was in love with her, yet she had a con-
viction that a movement, a word on her
part, would draw him to her now. A sense
of her own power flowed through her, nour-
ishing her wilted pride. She stirred slightly,
leaning back with her legs crossed and one
hand on the edge of the boat.
“Wait!” an inner voice urged her.
“There’s time enough. You’re not free
yet.”
So definitely did it sound in the- cells
of her brain that she felt that Boyd, a few
. feet away, must assuredly hear it and know
the way the tides of her blood were flow-
ing towards him. What was he thinking
about as he stood looking down into the
water? That Duncan girl, with the slack
mouth and liquid eyes—did he see her
foolish, excited face gazing up at him?
But no! He was still, remote, as if any-
thing personal in him had ebbed out into
the timeless night. Indifferent to her or
any other woman! She had an impulse to
put out her hand and touch him, so that
he might feel the fire in her finger-tips and
come alive. But she checked herself with
an effort and said lightly:
“It really is getting late. They’ll be
wondering where we are.”
“Right,” he said rousing himself. “We’ll
go in now”
At the windmill there were reedy banks,
and a few feet of water separated the boat
from the land. Barbara slipped as she
was getting out, and suddenly felt a pair
of arms around her, lifting her bodily. For
a moment the world seemed to stand still,
poised in space. She could feel Boyd’s
breath in her hair and his heart beating
against her own, and at that moment some-
thing was released in her and she gave her-
self to him utterly. A wave of unconscious-
ness flowed over her; was it the drumming
in her ears that drowned his voice? But
the spell was broken when her feet touched
the soft grass and'thev walked up to the
house together, constrained and separate.
Ada was waiting for them on the edge
of the verandah when they came up; Ada
fatigued but exuberant, a soft scarf around
her shoulders and the polished buckles of
her shoes catching the light.
“My dear girl, where have you been?”
she said- “Everyone’s asking for you, and
as for Roger—he was almost for organising
a search-party.”
“We’ve been on the lagoon in that old
punt,” Barbara told her. “It’s magical
down there.”
“It would be,” said Ada with a laugh,
squeezing her wrist and fluttering away.
CHAPTER XV.
The Disappearance of Barbara.
Once the races were over, the tents dis-
mantled, and the last car vanished round
the bend of the road, the quiet which sur-
rounded the place like a sea began to flow
back again. An air of inactivity hung over
the yards and the men’s quarters.
Ada again brought up the question of a
holiday to the coast. In the back of her
mind she had resolved that once she suc-
ceeded in weaning Roger away from the
place there would be no returning. She
had a vision of a home at Hamilton
with cool balconies overlooking the river
and a garden bounded by silky-oaks and
flowering shrubs. Lying on the cane lounge
under the passion vines she pored over the
illustrated weeklies, the bathing scenes, the
race groups, the photographs of manne-
quins in French models, and when she raised
her eyes to the wilting garden she felt as
if her very soul was becoming dry and
shrivelled.
“We must get away, Roger,” she said
to her husband. “I’ve been slopping round
in rags for ages. And this dust! It gets
right under your skin and makes you half
believe you’re a mummy. Now that the
races are over there’s nothing to keep us.”
“Nothing at all,” he agreed. “God bless
my soul, you don’t imagine I’m not as
ready for a holiday as you are? It’s merely
a question of whether we go now or wait
for Easter.”
“Then don’t wait,” she said decisively.
“I want to sprawl about on the beach before
the heat has gone out of the sea.”
“Good,” he assented. “We’ll go at the
end of the month then But it’s only
a few weeks, mind. I don’t feel free to
leave the place yet. If only I could be
sure that Jeff and Larry would stay on
when Boyd takes over.”
He felt it was incumbent on him to
redeem his promise and leave the place in
Boyd’s hands, but something in his blood
prompted him to stay on, grasping at one
excuse or another. He did not want to
be left in the air, without a proper perch
or the means of exercising authority. It
would be well enough to go back to town
restored to his old position as member for
the district; he looked forward eagerly to
another term in that spacious building sur-
rounded by jacarandas where he had once
cut such a figure. But the elections were
still eighteen months away! A long time! And
people had confoundedly short memories.
A feeling for .the soil was deeply im-
planted in him, but was it in Boyd? He
did not know, for as yet there was no
evidence one way or the other. Boyd had
come back and settled down, certainly, but
there had been a slight perfunctoriness about
the whole business. Although they had
had long talks when they rode out to-
gether they could never reach a basis of
complete frankness, and so he was uncer-
tain of what was going on in his son’s
mind. There was the same reserve about
Boyd that had marked him as a boy, deep,
impregnable; no matter how lightly he
talked his real thoughts always seemed to
be occupied with something else. What
was it he brooded about, McCurdie won-
dered, when he went off alone in the even-
ings to smoke by the creek? Memories
of the war he could not shake off? Or was
there a love affair springing up between
him and Barbara, as Ada believed? Ever
since that episode at the races, when the
black colt had nearly smashed him up, he
had had the queerest spasms of uneasiness
about Boyd.
“Ada- and I are going away for a month
or two,” he told Boyd. “Just a holiday.
Ada wants to smell the sea again. I’ll be
back again before the next muster. You’ll
want a hand till you get everything run-
ning smoothly.”
“There’s no need to hurry,” he was
assured. “Better have a good holiday while
you’re about it. I won’t have any trouble
in getting all the help I want.”
“Holiday?” grunted McCurdie good-
humoredly. “Not much of a holiday for
me! Trailing round to bridge parties and
afternoon teas!” . '
Yet he went with good grace, trailing off
in the big car he had hired a chauffeur to
drive, and jesting with Ada about the pos-
sibility of the rains catching them in the
middle of the blacksoil plains. With them
went Miss Carmody, who had long pro-
mised herself the treat of talking over some
mysterious internal ailment with a good
doctor. In her grey dustcoat she sat bolt
upright beside the chauffeur, an expression
of placid contentment on her seamed
face, as though she was going off to enjoy
something she had truly earned. Boyd,
standing on the verandah watching the car
vanish in a haze of dust, felt a sense of
relief, he hardly knew why.
“They’re off!” said a voice behind him.
He turned to see Josie with the ends of
a tablecloth beneath her chin, gathering
it in neat folds. In her eyes there was a
dancing light, as if she, too, felt a sense
of relief. Somehow he was embarrassed by
the way she shared his feeling. Why should
their departure make any difference to her?
“Yes, they’re off,” he repeated mechani-
cally, turning on his heel and making for
the yards.
His first impulse was to catch his horse
and ride over to Niva Downs. There was
no reason why he should not have gone
there any time in the last three weeks, but
there had been something in Barbara’s
manner when they parted after the races
that laid a constraint upon him. He had
suggested riding back with her, but after
agreeing she had clattered off alone at a
hand-gallop, never turning her head. He
had a feeling that she did not know whether
she wanted him to follow or not, and while
he hesitated someone had called him to
help with a buggy horse that had kicked
over the traces. But other things had hap-
pened during those last couple of days
when the races were on that turned his eyes
inward and set him brooding. Barbara had
been perverse, moody, incalculable, very
different from her usual self. And when
he had written asking her if he should
bring the black horse over, she had not
answered his note.
{To be continued next wcclc.)
The Song of Biloela.
Long:, long ago when I was a woman,
Then was my heart as the heart of a storm ;
A ray of light in the night awoke me,
Or even a dream, unfolded afar,
I was an arrow in flight, and a sword;
I was a bough in the wind and a flame;
I was a tree with a nest of nestlings,
And the nestlings all had songs of their own.
I was a harp where the wind blew over,
And I was a leaf as I was the dew;
I heard the sun as he journeyed singing,
And I felt earth stir as he called her name.
When life was the quest and life the treasure,
Then I was a house with a thousand fears;
I was the quick, and all things were alive,
In the days gone V when I was a woman.
I who was wild now ever go gently,
Though the pulse may leap to a moment’s
stir;
But never it leaps as it leapt and trembled.
Long, long ago when I was a woman.
Now is the stress all fallen to smoothness,
And I look abroad as one from a bay;
I measure the storm, my storm gone over,
As I ride with the reins in my hand away.
N.S.W.
MARY GILMORE.


whatever the road or weather
One of the outstanding advantages of
the Dodge Six is the sense of security
it brings to driver and passengers.
No matter what the road or traffic
condition, this sturdy car insures
maximum safety and protection with
a body of typical Dodge strength and
rigidity. This body is built inflexibly
on to the chassis in such a way that
the centre of gravity is exceptionally
low. And also you always have
the complete security of Dodge Six
4-wheel hydraulic brakes—positively
equalised —internal-expanding—
absolutely weatherproof.
DODGE BROTHERS SIX
CHRYSLER MOTORS PRODUCT
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W. Harden & Johnston, Limited, Sydney
Victoria . . Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland . . . Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane and Townsville
S.A Way mouth Motor Company, Limited, Adelaide
W.A. . Winterbottom Motor Company, Limited, Perth
Tasmania . Co-operative Motors, Ltd., Hobart


W&W26.
wmm
London Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRANfc
è
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN’*
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
iSSESSS:
*
sear-;
mmmmm
i s
:x: ttgUßUS&re :/‘'...;-.-
P« n XTL;-Di r Ks*
SS3SSH3S
Mass
mgs
MCi2E23ra£*sS*F
l|<Ti
111
fo:
W
ggretSKtr -
5S£
f£l&£an*S
SSES
583 £
u^i * B * as ®« s a33SßaEr
: '-
9KP
am
30£.
£3Sr-.
tf , (i ' '
v CentraU&ilwa,yStn.
SYDM£Y- -
SSSJXSg
TSS
EXCLUSIVE
i
n^rSSteS*—
“ CYMA ” watches can be
relied upon to get you there
on time. No fear of being, a
minute fast or a minute slow.
They are ON TIME. ALL
THE TIME and, unlike many
other watches, are absolutely
interchangeable, so that, in case
of accident, any spare part is
available to your watchmaker,
allowing, him to give you
prompt service at a minimum
cost.
For style and appearance
“CYMA” watches have no
equal, as each of the equisite
models is designed to meet the
demand of the most fastidious.
*The World’s Wonder Watch’
SOLD BY ALL
JEWELLERS
snoiuVi
r,i
'MJ
THE
LATEST
CREATION
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait,
HER MAJESTY’S: THE NEW MOON.
CRITERION: JOURNEY’S END.
ROYAL: MURDER ON THE SECOND
FLOOR. _____
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres. Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE ALLAN WILKIE SEASON.
Amusements.
IJOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
1 * MELBOURNE.
TWO 100 PER CENT. TALKIES.
THE TRIAL OF MARY DUGAN,
With NORMA SHEARER.
(Children under 16 not admitted.)
Also MARY PHILBIN in
THE SHANNONS OF BROADWAY.
Stuart Crystal is made by hand slowly > lovingly
and with masterly skill. If the name STIdART is
etched on a piece of glass that piece will delight you
all your days with its exquisite beauty '. Afore / your
children and their children will share
your joy, with gratitude and pride in
your taste, knowing that they have
an authentic product of Stuarts ol
Stourbridge.
ft
m
mi
&
mm
as*?
8
: ,
ami
L_»*J
M
u
English r Hand-made Crystal
Obtainable wherever beautiful glass is sold
é
ë
ADDR-ESS
'(patoN)


A Perfect cjloss
FIRST
SOLD
! 7Q2
mm)
antfs
Macassar Oil
A GLOSSY, healthy-
looking head of hair
can be yours—it’s _ no
secret; just comb a little
Rowland’s Macassar Oi
thoroughly into the hah
twice a day. It feeds you
hair and prevents weak
ness and falling out.
Of all Chemists,
Stores and Hair-
dressers. lied for
dark hair; golden
ror fair or grey
hair.
nes
NATURE’S REMEDY, HEALTH-GIVING AND REFRESHING,
Burgoyne’s Fruit Saline is world-
famous for its wonderful health-
giving properties—it is an agree-
able, invigorating and cooling drink,
and i 3 a speedy cure for Bilious-
ness, Sick Headaches and all fever-
ish conditions. Acting, too, as a
mild aperient, it cleanses the system
of all impurities.
All chemists sell Burgoyne’s
Fruit Saline. Keep a bottle in the
house; all the family will enjoy it.
ASK YOUR CHEMIST FOR
BURGOYNE’S FRUIT SALINE.
ē
E6e
“CEYLON
INDIAN PITH
HELMET
The right hat for a
tropical climate.
Cork-lined, well venti-
lated. Available in
two shades, Khaki and
White. All sizes.
99
KHAKI,
18/6
WHITE,
21/-
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED,
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
AS WE SAID BEFORE
This Page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
anew generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
ê
TWO WAYS OF LOOKING AT IT.
DE BERE: “By Jove, eh. There’s a splendid waist.”
FITZ-BROWN (who is married) : “Yes, she’ll be glad to get home
and take it off, won’t she?”
nious ex-Australian newspaper man who,
after contracting to make various altera-
tions in a play for her, had neglected either
to do the work or return the MS. she had
lent him. After writing repeatedly and get-
ting no answer she determined on looking
him up at his lodgings, but on arrival at his
address was told that he had gone to the
country. Then she asked to see the landlady
—who came down and proved to be a most
buxom and dressy personage. To her Ada
Ward gave a message for the neglectful
scribe, supplemented by a slightly" acidu-
lated remark concerning the treatment to
which he had subjected her. Then the land-
lady flared up. “Do you know, madam,”
said she, “that the gentleman of whom you
are speaking is now my husband?” “Ah,
indeed,” replied Miss Ada so sweetly, “I
suppose you took him to settle a bad debt?”
There is in Sydney an undertaker called
Churchall. This is pretty good, though
Churchyardall would be still better. In Mel-
bourne there is an undertaker called Raven.
He advertises as follows: “W. G. Raven,
Undertaker, Manufacturer of Contagion-
preventive Coffins.” That is the man we
would like to bury us. No measles, or whoop-
ing-cough, or diphtheria for us after we are
dead, thank you.
As Lady Loch, her daughters and a bevy
of lady friends were doing the Picture Gallery
at the Melbourne Exhibition the other day,
with a curled and scented aide dancing
attendance upon them, in the exigencies of
staring at a high-hung work of art the aide
dropped his eyeglass on the floor and then
stood and simply looked at it. He never
“moved or spoke,” like the warrior in the
ballad, until one of the ladies stooped to
regain it for him! Then he made one weird
short struggle to bend, when several ominous
little sounds like “split split” were heard,
and the gallant aide flew back to a painfully
erect position whilst the girl handed him his
lost pane of glass:—
Melbourne knows
What caused his woes —
Tight clothes.
A rival says
The trouble Jays
With tight stays.
Anyhow,
He couldn’t bow
And he pins his glass to his eyebrow now.
Old Dryhash, of Yowlamine station
(N.S.W.), is a Christian gentleman, but
now and then he finds that some money can
be made by mustering on Sunday, so he tones
down the impiety of the proceeding by
reading prayers to the men. H'is hands were
bringing in fats on
a recent day of
rest, and at eleven
o’clock D r y h a s h
rolled up as usual
to lend a sacred
character to the
scene. The men
gathered round him
on horseback, and
he had got as far
as “We have done
those things which
we ought not to
have done” when
he stopped to say,
“Peter, you gory
fool, don’t you
see that (con-
signed to Sheol)
brute, breaking
away there?” He
was just starting
again when a cow
skipped and her
calf followed, and
Dryhash, seemingly
quoting from the
Holy Volume,
observed : “H ere,
you wretch, hold
the book while I
help that (shriv-
elled by lightning)
mutton-headed fool.
You’re all a set of
lazy brutes, eating
your gory heads
off,” etc. There was
a chase, and the re-
treating beef was
, ~ „, brought back again,
and then old Dryhash calmly took up
the parable where he had left off. “And
left undone those things which we ought
to have done, and there is no good
in us. ' This patriarch’s services are gener-
ally regarded as a success. They are chock-
full of pleasing and picturesque variety.
When the terminus of the Western
(N.S.W.) line was at Penrith, Henry Rotton
contracted to carry the mails to Bathurst.
On the first day of his contract lie handled
the ribbons himself, and when the official
brought out some plethoric sacks of news-
papers, Mr. Rotton objected, and blandly
informed the astonished official that news-
papers were not in the bond; and so it
proved, for letters only were mentioned. A
fresh bargain was struck, under which Rotton
agreed to bring the newspapers to Bathurst;
but as the post office was not mentioned he
calmly brought all the papers to his own
hotel—where the Joint Stock Bank now
stands, and where he had had pigeon-holes
fitted up. The Bathurstians who wanted
their newspapers had thus to visit Mr.
Rotton’s hostelry for them, and this helped
business much. There were some queer
people in Bullocky Bathurst a generation
ago. There are some queer people in Bathurst
still.
The fact that all flesh is grass is once
more exemplified. One bright Sunday morn-
ing, when the birds wore singing sweetly, and
the voice of the
bounding kangaroo
was raised in that
sorrowful chant
which so maddens
the wild, foreign
emu, the soul of
Dr. , of Croy-
don (N.Q.), passed
away, and he wbnt
on his last visit to
find out what had
become of all his
patients. The
funeral was fixed
for noon the same
day, and all Croy-
don and its dog
turned out to fol-
low the procession,
and as each dog
brought a friend
along with him,
and as more dogs
joined the caravan
cn route, it came
to pass at last
that the show con-
sisted mainly of
dogs. Yet the pro-
ceedings were car-
ried out with toler-
able decorum until
at last the forward
dogs roused an
emu, and passed
the word to the
middle dogs, and
they mentioned it
to the dogs at the
rear, whereupon
they all started off
i n chase. Then
the afflicted mour-
ners tailed away
behind the dogs,
and the hearse fol-
lowed at a canter
till it got bushed,
and the remains
went round a, n d
round for an hour
or so, vainly try-
ing to find the way
to their last rest-
ing-place. At the
end of that time
the procession be-
gan to straggle back along with the dogs
and one dead emu, and ultimately the
cemetery was reached; and the coffin was
about to be lowered into the earth, when
a new trouble intervened. The grave-
digger had gone down two feet, and then,
coming on the bedrock, he had stopped,
and the perspiring mourners laid down the
dead emu to protest against the indecency
of this arrangement, and demanded that the
deceased should be treated with proper
respect. The discussion grew decidedly
warm, and at one time it seemed as if the
dogs were likely to be sooled on to the
sexton ; but that public servant, with great
presence of mind, pointed out that he had
fixed matters so that the rocky formation
might prevent the doctor sinking any lower
and getting into a warmer climate than
Croydon, and that, though he might stick
out considerably, it would be all the better
for his soul. The explanation was ultimately
accepted as satisfactory, and the proceedings
closed in a harmonious spirit, after which
the grief-stricken crowd adjourned to wet the
emu at an adjacent groggery.
A MODERN FASHION.
Mary had a pair of lambs
Whose parents sailed with Noah ;
She tore one’s tail from off its hams,
And wore it as a boa.
Some years ago there lived near Grenfell
(N.S.W.) one Michael O’D , who (a
staunch son of Mother Church, by the way)
took a more than ordinary fancy to the local
parson’s milking eow T , and, what is more
to the purpose, lie sank all religious pre-
judices and actually purchased her, resolving
to guard against all evil consequences and
drive out the effects of the “Revised Version”
by sprinkling her with holy water before milk-
ing. When about to milk her for the first time,
lie emptied along her back the whole contents
of a bottle which he supposed contained holy
water; but by mistake he had brought with
him a bottle of nitric acid kept in stock for
doctoring foot-rot in sheep. The effect sur-
prised the cow and also Michael, who
remarked to his wife, who was superintend-
ing affairs ; “Howly Moses, Biddy, but look
at how she shmokes ! Bejabers, tin* Prodestan
was shtrong in her.”
The Australian small boy, when hit, acts
in a strictly Scriptural manner; he always
gives the other “cheek.”
A fiend actually started blowing a bag-
pipe in front of the Rockhampton (Q.)
Courthouse while Lukin, P.M., was ladling
out the law. Naturally enough, Mr. Lukin
kicked, for which he was mercilessly abused
by the local press, which spoke of him as
vi man who-had no music in his soul, and
who was therefore fit for every crime, from
RESIGNING THE JAWBONE.
“Justice Windeyer's charge to the jury in the Mount Rennie case lasted
for 10 hours.”— Daily paper.
J. B. NEILD: “Here you are, Judge! You have fairly won it;
I have at last met a better man!"
“heads a bob” to manslaughter. Poor Lukin
merely replied that he 'doubted if any man
could listen to the bagpipes for over half an
hour without going raving mad, upon which
an indignant Scot published the bill of
fare of a most successful Northern banquet
at which a pibroch solo was performed after
each course
Vins. Menu.
Whisky, 1878—Potatoes and Herrings.
Whisky, 1879—Salt Herrings aux Ponimes de Terre.
Whisky, 1880—Potatoes and Red Herrings.
Whisky, 1881 —Potatoes au Naturel.
Whisky, 1882 —Mashed potatoes and Herrings au Sel.
Whisky, 1883 —Baked Potatoes and Loch Fyne Her-
rings.
Whisky, 1884 —Boiled Potatoes and Dam Fyne Her-
rings.
Whisky, 1886 —Haddies a la Finnan and Baked
Cheese.
Whisky, 1886—More Herrings—More Potatoes —More
Whisky. Auld Lang Syne by the
whole strength of the Company and
Bagpipes.
That bill of fare was carried out to the
letter, and the banqueters still live to tell the
tale.
Sabbath observance: The wily constable
watching a pub on Sunday.
Rockhampton is the joyful possessor of an
editor called McAllrot.
“Well, John,” said a Melbourne lady to
an exiled Mandarin who supplied her with
vegetables, “are you married?” “Yes,” replied
the worshipper of his grandmother with a
gleeful grin, “me got two wife in China.”
“But,” remarked the lady in language popu-
larly believed to be specially suited to
Chinese comprehension, “that not right, John :
one wife good, two wife no good.” “No, no,”
chuckled the hardened heathen —“one wife
(hitting himself in the chest) fightem me;
two wife (striking his fists together) fightem
they.” And the Caucasian thinks he knows
something!
THE GAIETY GIRL.
ë


Banking, Public Companies, etc,
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. •• £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares .. .. •• 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS fZiiil
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£1,000,000
Fire Insurances 1
Marine Risks
[effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
ĕ
ė
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d,
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Shipping, etc.
Holiday in HAWAII
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN Excursion Bookings are
now open to Australians planning to spend this Winter
in Hawaii’s summer sunshine. Leave on May 29, June 26 or
July 24 by the s.s. Niagara or Aorangi for a delightful voyage
via Auckland and Suva to Honolulu.
First Saloon, Second Saloon,
£75 - RETURN - £55
ALTERNATIVE TOURS ARE:
Auckland Fiji Tonga
Samoa or Sydney
Noumea Suva.
ALL PARTICULARS FROM:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
247 George St., Sydney.
59 William St., Melbj C.l.
Bnuaii
x\
CANADIAN -AUSTRALASIAN
LINE—EXCURSIONS
- am
BURNS PHILP TOURS
THE GATEWAY TO
m
S ■
figs
li:
I
m
KM
mim
m
52?
HE
mm
OTHER LANDS.
AVisit to Java
THE GARDEN OF THE EAST.
Seven Weeks’ Wonderful Tour,
including about two weeks’
escorted motor trip through Java.
Leaving Sydney by the magnificent
liner
T.S.S. MARELLA - - May 7, 1930
Swimming Bath, Gymnasium, Deck
Cabins, etc.
First-class inclusive fare from
Sydney, £l2B.
Full particulars from
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.
7-11 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WA EES
ESTABLISHED 1817
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
ę
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150.000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
588 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Queensland's
Largest and Most
Effective Advertising
Medium —
THE “BRISBANE COURIER”
These amazing comparison figures should prove beyond all doubt the
superiority of the “Brisbane Courier” as an advertising medium:—
FOR YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1929.
“Brisbane Courier”:
29,152£
columns of advertising.
Two other Brisbane dailies—one a
morning, the other an evening:
28,672£
columns of advertising.
This is easily the strongest evidence, too, that the “Courier” is first in
CIRCULATION, COVERAGE, ADVERTISING AND INFLUENCE.
Specimen copies and Rate Cards from Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Published by the Brisbane Newspaper Co., “Courier” Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Shipping, etc.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
tßunic . . 12,500 tons, March 1
tDemosthenes 11,500 ~ March 15
TCeramic . . 18,500 „ March 25
*Ulysses . . 15,000 ~ April 18
*First class only. f“Cabin” class only.
JFirst and third class.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
Agents
SPLENDID CHEAP SERVICE
Via Suez Canal.
FAST OIL BURNERS
Fares to London from £3B.
To Colombo from £22.
Special Excursion Return Tickets to
Colombo issued from Sept, to Feb., £32.
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
SPACIOUS DECKS—DECK CABINS—EXCELLENT
MENU—CINEMA—DANCE MUSIC REPRODUCED
AVITH ELECTRIC AMPLIFIERS—
CANVAS SWIMMING BATH
Freight Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Joint Passenger Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Tel.: 86701. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.,
Tel.: 87512. 247 George Street, Sydney.
> Magnlfloent
lllg fast Passenger
= Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUdDART PARKER LIMITED
Colflns Street, Melbourne; Bringe Street, Sydney.
Huddart ParkerL
BRITAIN-
MAKE YOUR TOUR
COMPLETE.
The Highways of Romance and the
Historical Cathedral Cities are all
awaiting you. The route is by the
LN E R
Up to Scotland by the Flying Scots-
man, hours’ non-stop run.
London to Edinburgh
Restaurant, Hairdressing Saloon,
Bookstall on the train.
Tour by the LONDON & NORTH-
EASTERN RAILWAY for
LUXURY,
SPEED,
COMFORT
Apply for full particulars to
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and
Branches.
Agents throughout Australasia.
tEbe dominion.
New Zealand's
National Morning Daily,
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion” is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to —
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.


ê
Shiiii/
CHINA
Exquisite variety
house of Shelley offers
boundless opportunities to the
lady who likes her Afternoon Teas I
to be distinctive social occasions.
Every Shelley Tea Set is made of
fine English Bone China, every
piece is a delight to handle. The
noble Gainsborough service and
the charming Queen Anne series
are two of Shelley’s most famous
Tea Sets, but a variety both
infinite and exquisite may be had.
Ladies are respectfully referred
to their China-dealers.
Ask
TO SEE THE
SHELLEY
LATEST
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
* China
Nursery Ware
Lf Lucie Attwell
t Hilda Cowham
Dome stic Ware
Jelly Moulds
OBTAINING
aaa.CLAR.KHCE 4T.
ë
c
8l
iY
m
a
Safety
Weed Tyre Chains pre-
vent dangerous skidding
accidents.
Protect your passen-
gers, yourself and your
car by carrying always
Weed Tyre Chains,
ready to be put on when
needed.
Look for the name
“Weed” on every hook.
Order from your dealer.
AMERICAN CHAIN CO.
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
WEED
TYRE CHAINS
/•
The Centre of Tasmania’s
Progress and Prosperity.
"THE EXAMINER" is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricul-
tural, Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
"THE EXAMINER” has published in Launceston
for 87 years, and is still the family newspaper of
Northern Tasmania.
Full information copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner” “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from:
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Patterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
426 National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
726 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“TRUTH
IN ADVERTISING”
South Australian
Perpetual Forests fe
MESSAGE No. 3.
Growing Timber is Growing Gold
We plant for each Bondholder one acre of free-
hold land with 680 pine trees, and guarantee to foster
and maintain it for 20 years, paying all rates and
taxes. Each £25 Bond is available on 25/- deposit and
2/4 weekly, and your payments are completed in less
than four years.
REMEMBER—THE WORLD IS FACING A TIMBER
FAMINE!
PROVIDE FOR YOUR FUTURE.
ē
This is Your Protection.
To distinguish
South Australian Perpetual Forests Ltd.
from those companies now using similar
names, we have registered for the
Company’s exclusive use the title design
illustrated above, and the “Pine-tree”
trademark shown. Literature published
by us always contains these designs.
South Australian
Perpetual Forests Ltd.
Bowman Buildings,
King William Street, Adelaide.
(Plantations: Penola and Mt. Gambier,
South Australia.)
POST THIS COUPON WITHOUT DELAY!
To South Australian Perpetual Forests Ltd.,
Bowman Buildings, King William Street, Adelaide.
Please forward your booklet “Tree Farming” to—
Name
Address -
The Murderer.
MARGARRT FANE
e
è
THE voice of the incessant rain on the
roof was soothing. It suited Blake.
He was like it himself. Going from
room to room with his hand-lamp lie could
believe that his heavy footsteps were part of
the steady power in the sound. In the wide
room that was his study he sat down and
put the lamp on the table. Years ago he
had carried wood up the stairs to these
rooms to replenish the master’s fire; now
the rooms were his. He was the master.
Out under the rain yellow fields stretched
back and forth on both sides of the river.
Old Henry Pauncefort was dead —had died
in the poverty his smooth indifferent life had
asked for. His niece Althea was Blake’s wife.
That was a nice touch, marrying l’aunce-
fort’s niece. Somewhere in fliis relentless
drone of rain there was applause for that
touch.
Pamela Blake’s bright, insolent young
voice drifted into liis memory. “Of course,
father, I’m too young and Bill’s too young—-
when you say that, you say about every-
thing, don’t you?”
“You won’t lose by it, and in tile end
you’ll thank me,” he had told her. “In two
years—in one year—you’ll know that I'm
right.”
“Yes. I know that you would set to
work to smother and—yes, murder me with
money. You’ve already started, haven’t you,
by booking do luxe passages to Europe for
mother and me, to sail next week? And
we’ll have a gorgeous time buying up Paris
and London, eating greengage tartlets in
Buda Pesth—eating, breathing, and being
money until we are smothered and all that’s
worth anything in us is gone. Murdered.
You did that with mother; she isn’t any-
thing now. And you’ll do it with me. And
I wouldn’t want Bill to marry me then.”
The smooth scorn in her voice had reminded
him again of old Pauncefort. “You’re quite
right, father. So I just said good-bye”....
That was the Pauncefort family.
The trees. From thirty years ago Blake’s
hatred of the trees came surging back. His
job of sweeping the fallen leaves and twigs
away from old Pauncefort’s wonderful
avenue of trees—scented trees, flowering
trees, cedars, cypresses, figs. Some planted
by old Pauncefort and some by his father
and Ills father’s father. Very precious to
old Pauncefort in his calm casual way,
these trees; the avenue must be kept like
a drawing-room, with “young Blake,” the
odd-job boy, to sweep the carpet every day !
The master looked on in apparent indiffer-
ence while Blake did liis job; the master
seemed half asleep, but his cigar would
point here, and there, and there, to a small
leaf that had escaped the broom. Without
speaking he watched lazily while Blake went
back and retrieved the small leaf, his
soul on fire with hatred of this easy, hand-
some man who could make a cigar do what
other people needed words and gestures for.
And envy—that was the bitterest deep of
the hatred.
Blake stirred in his chair. The rain was
heavier. It had the deep insistent voice
that meant flood at Yellowfields. The river
would rise and make a lake of the house-
garden ; it had already reached the power-
house—hence the lamps—and would possibly
find its way into the lower storey. That had
been known to happen. No great harm would
be done, except to the insurance company’s
pocket; the house was«stone and solidly
built. And the brooding ceaseless sound was
rich and good, like sitting in this chair and
Smoking this, cigar. The growl of distant
thunder put another touch of powerful life
into it, too. It went on, like John Blake,
adding bits to itself 'all the time, until it
was safe from defeat or the chance of defeat.
More, it was irresistible, like John Blake.
Pauncefort had thrashed him once. He
had tied a jam-tin to the stable-dog’s tail
and—well. Pauncefort had caught him watch-
ing the dog running away from the tin
round and round the stable-yard. As usual,
Pauncefort, had said nothing—just lifted
him by the back of his collar and thrashed
him with his crop, like a rabbit or one of
the pups. When it was over, Pauncefort
had dropped him and dusted his hands. Then
he did speak, but casually, as if it were
nothing, like young Pamela last week.
“Next time I hear of anything like this
you’ll get a real thrashing—your hide will
hang in ribbons and you’ll be thrown off the
place. Bring me the dog.”
Stiff and sore, burning with pain and
hatred, Blake had caught the dog and brought
it to him. “Now go back to work,” Paunce-
fort had said indifferently and without look-
ing at him. Blake, tough and muscular in
those days, had ached to fly at him and
grind his head into the stable-yard. Looking-
back at him from the gates, he had seen
that he was bending over the dog, murmur-
ing to it while he gently untied the tin.
For days the blinding anger possessed him.
Every twig and leaf in the avenue seemed
to be pointing to tbe master kneeling on the
stable-yard—every twig and leaf was mock-
ing him, feeding his hatred and his envious
rage. How he loathed, despised and
admired the coolness and quietude of Paunce-
fort !
Remembering now, in this roar of furious
rain, it seemed that all his years at Yellow-
fields in the old days were years of impotent
rage and envy and contempt.
But in the end the time came. He got
away with a good cheque for wages, and
went down to Sydney, the anger and bitter-
ness in control. Real estate, some contract-
ing, some mortgages, one or two successful
tricks not too near the wind, and he was
set for the real work.
Money was the thing, first of all; his big
brooding personality pervaded all the sources
of money until he could step away and
release his mind from it as a thing so
nearly completed that it could finish itself.
The second thing was people, the Paunce-
fort kind of people, Europe, some reading—
the oddments that produced this kind of
people. The money went on working all the
time, and the end of this second period
was Althea, the first real success. He was
young in years then, and not so old in years
now, despite his heavy build and tendency
to fat; lie could still feel the thrill of the
winning of Althea Pauncefort.
He crushed liis cigar-butt on the tray.
This rain was like incessant thunder, a
monstrous monotony filling the night. It was
large and satisfying, like life when the money
was safe.
Old Henry pauncefort was a fool. Every-
one knew that lie was dipping into capital,
even when Blake was the odd-job boy. Soon
everyone knew that Yellowfields was cost- I
ing him twice his income. Finally everyone
knew that he was living on capital. But
no one knew who was buying the place, lot
by lot, who took all the mortgages and fore-
closed with the steady regularity of this
rain.
At last the house came in, and Paunce-
fort went to live at River House Farm, a
bit of a place a quarter-mile up the river,
where the manager used to live in the old
years. Here he died suddenly, with the
sort of indifferent carelessness with which
he had lived. It was found that he had
left River House Farm to a distant relative,
who would not sell.
Blake wanted River House Farm, wliicl
wasn’t a farm now, but only a couple oi
acres with a rambling weatherboard house
on them. But there was a Moreton Bay
fig with its roots half in the river and lxali
in the land, a vast tree whose roots were
so big that they formed. a river cave where
boats were moored, a dark place under the
great dark tree. It was the tree that Blakt
wanted, more than the two alien acres in
the middle of his place. But he couldn’t get
the acres or the tree. Nothing would make
the owner even consider a sale. So there
the house was, a boarding-house now foi
summer visitors and the fishing and bathinj.
they came for; an acre of garden, an acr
of paddock, and the one tree in the home
stead lands. All the rest was bare 'as tin
palm of your hand.
Remembering the demolishing of the treee
Blake smiled to himself. A good deal of the
kick had gone out of that melodrama. Yet it
had its savor, even now. It had been a fine
bonfire.
The avenue had gone first. The trunks
of the rare trees that were worth anything
he had sold (money being money, even in
melodrama) ; the limbs and the trunks that
were worthless he had burned, the funeral
pyre of the odd-job boy’s sufferings in that
place. The ringing of the axes had beei
music in his ears; for days the men has
been at work cutting the avenue down
Blake watching them in triumphant silence
The old carter from the village store hac
paused on his way to the kitchen on tin
second day and stared forlornly at the havoc
“Murder, I call it,” he had muttered, turn- t
ing away. “All them lovely trees!”
Systematically the other trees round tin
homestead had been cut down and sold o:
burnt, until the house stood in a bare plain
There were no trees. Except that vas.
giant at River House Farm; he only was
left, towering over the naked land with one
foot in the river and one in the earth. Tin
lone sentinel, for Henry Pauncefort’s inso-
lent, confident ghost to get what shade il
c0u1d....
Blake smiled again at himself. Mor
melodrama —and at his age and girth...
Vaguely there seemed a difference in th(
voice of the rain; it was fuller*and stronger
Well, it would be bedtime soon.
It was in the cave under this one tree
that lie had found young Pamela and this
Greenlees pup who thought he was going to
be an architect and Pamela’s husband. That
sixth sense that told him where money was told
him other things too ; it told him that Pamela
was spending a lot of time at the boarding-
house, and that there was a shadowy depth
in her eyes these early summer days. Sc
it told him also to follow her at one dusk
to run his boat into the cave under the tree
to find her and this white-faced boy dream
ing here in the darkness.
That was folly. He had crushed it then
and then under the tree, while the bo;
glared at him and Pamela smiled in impu
dent, indifferent silence. Under the tree
too, last week he had made Pamela sec
that he was right. A fool of a boy with year:
of scratching in front of him before he couh
even keep himself! And John Blake’s only
daughter ! For a long moment of silence hei
cheated helpless eyes had stared at him in
the dark of the one tree’s mighty root before
her easy flippant voice had started to tell him
how he had murdered her mother with money
and would murder her.
What bosh those youngsters talked!
Sleep descended swiftly upon him, blottinr
out all these thoughts.
Farther on in the night, something a:
swift and sudden awakened him: a muffled
crash, roaring monstrously above the ordered
beating of the rain. He looked up, heavi
with sleep. Near and yet far off it had
seemed, a vast sound .\ . . The thunder of
the rain was less now, as if that terrific
sound had come in as master to subdue all
these smaller efforts.. He went over to tin
window and threw it up, pushing out the
shutters. There was even a sort of silence.
A great flash of lightning showed him a
desolation of moving water. Flood—and well
up the lower storey—-the black darkness
was there again, with only a faint glimmer
on the face of the water. He pulled the
window down and stood in thought for a
moment. That crash —what could that hav<
been? There was nothing to fa 11.... O:
was it a dream?
Into the black lightning-shot silence that
was yet not a silence anew sound crept
and swelled abruptly into a rushing wind,
like the piercing voice of wind through
trees. Somehow trees seemed to be tossing
their heads in the booming wind—dainty
(Continued on next page.)


Hand finished to.
ensure perfection
A
I , -l
1,1 'V 1
The finishing touches given to every
Kropp Razor before it is sent out from the
works are an essential part of the opera-
tions to produce this perfect instrument.
The Kropp Razor is entirely British and is
the product of skilled Sheffield craftsmen.
Tie
ALL-BRITISH
KROPP
never requires grinding
Black, Ivory or Xylonite handles. From the usua deaiers.
AVOID SUBSTITUTES : Every genuine Kropp
stamped “Made and ground in Sheffield, England.
Wholesale only: OSBORNE GARRETT & CO., LTD., London, England.
ĕ
Jade with
Rolled Gold
Bands
80/-
Ladies’ Pen
Lavender
22/6
Black and
Jade with
Rolled Gold
Bands
30/.
ė
ę
THERE IS A'SWAN
WHICH WILL MEET
THE MOST EXACTING
TASTE WHETHER IT
BE FOR DELICATE
TINTS OR GLOWING
COLOURS.
COLOURED “ SWANS ” FROM 22/6
(OTHER SELF-FILLING “SWANS” FROM 17/6
Black or Mot.led).
Swan'
"‘Fyne-Poynt" Pencils from 7/6
Self-Filling “Blackbird” Pens from 9/-
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
Illustrated Catalogue post free
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
Swan House, London, W.i.
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Sendee Depot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, Ltd.,
iBi, Clarence Street, Sydney.
ē
trees, autumn-colored and scented, flowering
trees, dark cypresses and cedars with their
sharp smell, all rare and lovely trees. .. .
Blake shuddered, listening hungrily to the
rushing sound: a finger of panic seemed to be-
touching him. He shook his shoulders and
massive head, and went back to his chan.
He had wakened too suddenly and got a
touch of nerves.
But sitting very still in las chair he found
himself searching the sound again for the
mighty whisper of trees in the . wind.
That was strange—probably remembering old
Pauneefort’s avenue had done it. He was
getting too soft and fat, too. thick-necked
more exercise and less sitting about was
what he wanted. This was foolish, sitting
here straining his ears for one sound m this
roaring tumult; the whole night was a turmoil
of every sound that had ever been hear....
Yet he sat very still, very white, waiting,
searching and searching for the small piei.c-
ing voice of treetops, and leaves chattering m
a strong wind „ , , ,
Like a sword anew sound shot through
the rocking thunder outside, a sound of tear-
ing wood and splintering glass. He 'sat up,
alert and definite, all the nerves gone. Some-
thing had given. He took the lamp and went
out into the corridor. AH safe there, lie
opened his bedroom door, and a sudden gust
of wind blew the lamp out.
A flare of lightning lit up the night and
the room. The cold hand of terror touched
him again. On the walls and ceiling shadows
of vast groping figures were moving.... The
black came again. The tumult outside rose
shrieking to the very apex of din. But those
fingers—like the branches of trees and the
twigs! The room glared in the lightning
again. There were the groping, clutching
fingers. One seized him, wet and dank and
full of a hard strong life. The darkness fell
swiftly, while the rushing thunder outside
seemed suddenly to sob and mock. His
scream of terror was like a murmur.
Day, coming haggardly to the Yellowfields
floods, saw that the great Moretbn Bay fig
at River House had been washed away. It
had travelled down stream, been deflected,
and found its way to the side of Yellow-
fields. Here something had caught the
tree’s roots and held them, so that the
tree now stood upright and vast, outside
John Blake’s room. In its passage one limb
had torn the shutters from the room’s window,
broken the window, and forced its way into
the room. Here it now was, brooding over
Blake’s body, like an avenging hand.
Mahomed the Unfaithful.
E. J. BRADY ON HIS TRAVELS.
IT was at Buitenzorg, in Java, that I made
the acquaintance of Mahomed the Unfaith-
ful.
I strongly suspect that he had earmarked
me for his own on my arrival at the station,
although I had not noticed him among the
colored army who rushed t:o relieve me of
my baggage. He was not one of the two
who carried my Kodak, nor among the other
eight who divided the “Englis tuan” among
them and fought for the spoils. But when I
came out of the hotel he was waiting for
me. Possibly he had remained in the vicinity
all night. He was arrayed in a ragged skull-
cap, a print blouse and cotton pants, and
had a very promising sore on his right leg.
I was averse to Mahomed. I did not
require his services nor pine for his acquaint-
ance, but he refused to leave me. He told
me he was aged in jolt —seven —which was
either a lie or a bad error in arithmetic.
I judged him to be tujoli bias —that is,
seventeen —and he looked every hour of it.
I conveyed this conviction to him in Malay,
with a few added remarks in Australian
which would certainly have grieved him had
he been able to translate them. He swore
before Allah that he was still but seven,
exceeding poor, and had his father , and
mother and four young members of the
family to maintain.
I told him that I doubted if he ever had
a father —but it was no use. He accompanied
me at a respectful distance in the direction
of the Botanical Gardens which contain the
finest collection of tropical vegetation in the
world.
On the way I endeavored to purchase
postcards from a Chinaman in a small shop
the contents of which projected over the
highway. It ended in a row over prices,
with seven Chinese women of the neighbor-
hood and an assemblage of children shrieking
at me because I was a foreign devil and a
persecutor of the poor. Mahomed kept
strictly on the outskirts of the riot and only
rejoined me when I reached the safety-zone.
He then boastfully informed me that if he
had possessed a kris he would have exter-
minated several of the unbelievers who had
been calling my integrity into question over
a matter of five cents. His bloodthirsty
valor caused me to stare at him, and then I
discovered Mahomed’s 1 weak point. He could
not stand up to my stare! Thereafter when
be became too familiar I stared sternly, and
he immediately became uneasy and humble.
While I was lost in admiration of the
magnificent avenues, the running water, the
orchids and lily ponds, another dark youth
approached us selling beetles. Mahomed
dashed to my aid and, keeping carefully
behind me, abused the rival merchant in a
most ferocious fashion. He shouted that
these beetles were evil, that they were spirits
of bad people who had died and gone to
Gehenna, that they would bring the English
tuan no good luck whatever.
The purveyor of insects departed looking
curved krises at M'akomed, after informing
that gentleman that his father was a Tamil
and his accidental mother entirely without
reputation.
AVhat Mahomed told me then about the
private life and family history of the beetle-
merchant cannot be recorded.
The tropic heat being a growing quantity,
I gave my voluntary attendant the Kodak
to carry, under which burden he grew visibly
in stature and importance. Whenever I
stopped to take a snap he gave me the
camera with the air of one who had mastered
the higher arts of photography. When I
handed it back to him he received it as a
colonel in Napoleon’s army might have taken
the baton of a field-marshal from, the hands
of the Emperor after some act of incredible
valor. His bearing towards another
colored attache whom he tpet escorting a
party of English tourists was simply over-
whelming. He told me that this gentleman
had stolen the sarong he was wearing from
his own grandfather, a man of great age and
disrepute. He also inferred that the rival
courier was entirely without morals and
never washed himself.
Growing faint with the overpowering
beauty of the Botanical Gardens I seated
myself on a stone bench and Mahomed
squatted in the dust some five paces to the
left. I led him on to talk of himself and
his achievements. He told me he had on
one occasion escorted no less than dua-
pulolt (twenty) English tourists through
these wonderful gardens in a day and that
each of the same had bestowed upon him the
princely sum of ten cents for his invaluable
services. It was refreshing to hear him lie,
but as he was getting between me and my
objectives 1 offered him ten cents to go
aw"v ami drown himself in the lily pond. He
;K . r ~r.+ ( >d the ten cents and then said that he
would suffer all the bitter agonies of death
rather than leave so munificent a rajah as
Allah knew me to be. He made it very plain
that he considered it his duty to remain and
save me from the perils by which I was
undoubtedly threatened. He said there would
be a thunderstorm in the afternoon and an
earthquake before dinner.
When I returned to the hotel he was
still with me. Bringing all his guns to bear,
loaded with salaams, tears and other
emotional ammunition, he extracted another
ten cents, for which he went down in the
dust and prayed Allah in a loud voice that
I might be rewarded one hundred thousand
fold. He swore by the Koran that while I
remained in Buitenzorg lie would be my
faithful servant, guide, philosopher and friend.
Having suffered the thunderstorm and
earthquake which are daily occurrences in
the Dutch capital, I rose next morning pre-
pared for another attack upon the gardens,
and fully expecting to find Mahomed camped
under a cocoanut-tree opposite.
He was not there.
He was not standing outside the shop ot
the Chinese seller of postcards armed to the
teeth for my defence.
1-Ie was not at the entrance to the Botani-
cal Gardens.
I met him in a banyan avenue an hour
later. He was reverently trotting five paces
to the rear of the left side of an American
lady and tenderly carrying her parasol.
When I came face to face with him he
refused even to recognise my stony stare.
Henry the Iron-hearted.
“Between the seagulls, faster than they fly
Our harbor-nurslings chug across the
bay,
Flags up... .It seems twelve suns are in
the sky !... .
Was ever such a rumpty-toodle day?”
Thus, while I mused—for I was full of
beer—
I thought of you in England, and I cast
One fire-bright crystal chrysoprasian tear,
Glad to be free —and quit of you at last.
N.S.W.
KIFF.
Life After Death.
Let fools their theories expound
Of Life beyond the Veil,
Their energies can but confound
And lead us in a circle round
As bushed men seek the trail.
Dream Paradises tempt me not;
No Golden Shores inspire;
Nirvana, that vague, sacred spot,
Is but the Buddha’s counterplot
Against my soul’s desire.
If I may pray for some return
For all I undertook,
Then bury me ’neatli river fern,
And with me in the Night intern
A soft light and a book.
N.S.W.
JOHN BARR.
Fallow Fields.
The stubble-fires are burnt and black,
The fallowing’s begun;
The teams are on the homeward track
An hour behind the sun.
As I came driving through the town
( Hey for a farmer’s bride!)
I saw Dark Donald walking down
With a young girl by his side;
I saw Dark Donald looking down
And speaking tenderly—
As once, my dears, in other years
Dark Donald spoke to me.
Dark Donald’s mouth seems grimmer
grown;
His step has little spring;
His hair, that was. so dusky-brown,
Is like the magpie’s wing;
But years ago, and far away,
When all the world was young,
Dark Donald kissed me one fine day!
Hey , ho —the song is sung!
Hey, ho—the story’s told, my dears —
The best of it is told!
All left to say is “Lack-a-day,
The world is very old!”
The moon is in the west to-night—
I doubt not that it shines
On Donald, and a girl in white
Among the cypress-pines;
Beside his fallow fields they go
And kiss —as lovers should.
Sing hey—sing ho—ten years ago
Dark Donald’s kiss was good!
If I had heeded Donald’s vows
Those kisses might be mine.
Hey, ho—we reap as fate alloics.
May Heaven bless his teams and cows
And water every field he ploughs
For cheery Auld Lang Syne.
VICTORIA.
PATRICIA MURCHISON.


m
~3f ' t ■■ .'-j
; tfc£V m
- V
KWH
; 7
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker- Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 liourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents—-Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LiTD., Adelaide, S.A
PROVED!
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE-
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“THE AGE”
Established 185 J/.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise you do not consider the
money involved as a speculation. You treat
this expenditure as an investment and expect
a reasonable return on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in the
affairs and development of Victoria. Its
present powerful position has been gained by
its literary worth, which appeals to an, intelli-
gent public, and by its accurate and complete
news service. These factors, having a direct
bearing on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser looking
for the best INVESTMENT for his advertising
expenditure.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation,
123,533.
Hates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
"The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
Che fld»«rtiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” map be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price lid.
advertiser newspapers ltd.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
O. N. BEDNALL. “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
THE
Illustrated Tasmanian
Mail
Published Wednesday. Price 6d.
A Bright, Interesting Weekly, con-
ducted on the most up-to-date lines,
and illustrated throughout.
It is an established favorite with
townsfolk and country folk also in
all parts of Tasmania, and its
effectiveness as an advertising
medium is receiving ever-increasing
recognition.
It is undoubtedly
TASMANIA’S LEADING
WEEKLY
A Rate Book, giving full particulars
of the Advertising Rates charged, will
he forwarded on application.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
P. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square.
BW 6179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin’’ takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
e
<m® ¥out
ARE THEY CLEAR
AND BRIGHT, OR
DULL AND
LUSTRELESS I
THE charm of a person’s eyes, which
should be clear, bright and the whites
tinged with blue, is often spoilt by ill-
health. Dullness and discolouration in the eyes
is a blemish and indicate constipation—which
means that poisons are being harboured in the
system fatal to health and beauty, besides giving
cause to biliousness, indigestion and headaches.
The medicine to remedy this condition is Beecham’s Pills
{a dose at night keeps you right) a most effective and naturally-
actioned laxative. Keep your digestion right and eyes
bright with
BEEQUMS
PILLS
WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX
ė
Building a Home?
Home Builders will welcome the advent of the
New Austral Weightless Window
Strong, Compact, Easily Applied, Guaranteed.
Cuts out weights and cords. Stays put in any
position; unlike casements; Sashes slide up and
down, allowing free use of flyTScreens on the
outside. Device is rust-proof, and protected from
the weather. Sample set for top and bottom sash
sent postage paid for 5/-
AUSTRAL WINDOW CO.
10 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper.
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6,3, months from
for which I enclose
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/-; 3 months, 8/-
é
0°
16)*
<S®
ij’-
jSf Vs**


R
FOR AUSTRALIAN
cvte jtyt&aUiyC&c6 sfcu&uz/t&s ccC
THE NEWCASTLE STEELWORKS
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY C ? L T - D
Head Office: 422 Little Collins St, Melbourne
LAST YEAR THE PRODUCTION of RAILS, SHAPES etc.
TOTALLED OVER 300,000 TONS.
