

IS!?
.
in
>c-'
I
:>•••;••
v£>'
So successfully has
Johnnie Walker main-
tained its reputation for
high quality and general
excellence throughout
four generations, that it
now ranks as the largest
selling whisky in the
world*
JOHNNIE
WAIrKER
WHISHT
[BORN
1.820
[STILL
KOING STRONG
l
m
IS
r
41
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, LONDON and KILMARNOCK.
The Bulletin
fdhsfh
Vol. 51.—N0. 2637.
Wednesday, August 27, 1930.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


r T’HE New Library Catalogue for 1930 is
now ready, and will be forwarded with
full terms and particulars, post free, on
application to
DYMOCKS BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Peach blossoms on the boughs I see,
To bring new life and hope to me,
After long weeks of cold and dread,
And prostrate, anxious nights in bed,
Neglect of warnings and delay
Made chronic what should last a day,
Had I at first to ease assure,
But taken Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
Among Stotts 300 Courses
ARE THE FOLLOWING
All Australian Exams.
Accountancy Exams.
Architectural Courses
Advertisement Writing
Agricultural Courses
Bookkeeping
Bankers’ Institute
Builders’ Courses
Commercial Art
Chemistry
Draftsmanship
Engineering
General Edr cation
Government Etxams.
Hand Writing
jGiterary Courses
languages
Motor Engineering
Professional Exams.
Secretaries’ Exams.
Shorthand, Typing
Salesmanship
Show Caro Wts.
Shire Clerks’ Exam*
Stammerers
Surveying
Teachers’ Exams.
Touch Type Writing
University Exams.
Verse Writing
Window Dressing
Wireless Engineering
Enclose courses, and mail to
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
My Name
Address
S.B. 318
O_ySAGHT7
o
3
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght's Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
N\\W
of *'.4,
My
THE PICNIC
Host Holbrook Says .*
“Those chops grill-
ed in the open air
over a bush fire!
Nothing more appetis-
ing when served with
my Worcestershire
Sauce.”
H<rit
■Winchester
TRADE MARK
GUNS AND AMMUNITION
FTER a long day’s tramp and
**■ you sight the game, you
want to be sure that your guns
and ammunition 'frill not fail
you. Insist on Winchester
safe, sure, accurate.
You will find a fine range of
Winchester big game rifles to
select from —each a masterpiece,
and, for each, there are Win-
chester cartridges' made to en-
able them to do their best.
WINCHESTER
REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN, CONN., U. S. A.
[Always um Winchester Ammu* 1
nition with 'Winchester Arms ~ I
they are made far each other. J
s
S'
fV .
Va
/0.
a
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN’*
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
The Red Page
A Binghi Mythology
Looking upon him from the train-window
—ragged pants to bare black ankles, a
foul pipe and the “Gibit tchillin” complex
—you do not suspect that Australia’s first
landlord is heir to a. starry mythology
akin to that of Greece. Quite possibly he
does not suspect it himself. But his nobler
nuder brothers of the North-West and the
Gulf rivers still treasure many a myth and
legend of rare poetic beauty, and of an
intense Australianism that no white child
of the country has yet expressed.
Old civilisations got along without him.
On those nights when Nero fiddled, when
the five ships of Columbus drifted steadily
westward in wan moonlight, when Bona-
parte played pea-and-thimble with the
crowns of Europe and lost them all, Yoone-
cara squatted beside his bit of camp fire
watching the stars. When he wasn’t too
hot or too lazily full of the day’s bandicoot,
he handed along the half-remembered lubra
tales of his babyhood to the young shavers
of the camp.
Those half-told tales are slipping with
their own laughing language into oblivion.
All creatures and trees of the Australian
bush play their part in the half-light fan-
tasy of this abo. folk-lore, some of the
legends of which are a shrewd guess at
scientific truth, others of curious affinity
with the Greek. Woongar, god of gods,
throwing Tya, a fragment of . the sun, into
Infinity, is a better guess than the six-days
creation of the Hebrew. The story goes
on that Biamee, kindly deity in charge,
kindled in his joy of it the first sunrise.
This was noticed by the evil and envious
Marmoo, who promptly sent a plague of
stinging things to make of earth a madness
and a barrenness. Against this pest not
one of the dusky deities prevailed until
Nungeena, goddess of the waterhole, with
lean black fingers modelled the birds, who
still come at dawn and evening sweetly to
sing her praises.
Another version of Neradha, daybreak,
is the angry flinging of the emu egg to
burst into flame against the wood-pile of
Ngoudenout the cloud-gatherer.
Binghi has his centaurs, the men with
emu feet, sinister shadows of the bush.
Bright-eyed Sirius is his eagle-hawk, a lord
of the skies; Venus, rejoicing in the lovely
liquid name of Julagoling, a wily beauty
that leads the warrior to folly. The
heavens were lit by Rollo-Mano’s fire-
stick sputtering into a million sparks as
he leapt into the twilight pool in pursuit
of a dark nymph. Ungamillia, his faithful
and favorite wife, later became the star of
evening. Mars is the eagle-star, betrayed
by the white crow, Waa the Cunning; and
the Corona Borealis the glittering boom-
erang thrown by the god in his rage and
grief.
Waa it was who, much in the manner of
Zeus, stole the lady of his choice, brightest
of the Pleiades, by disguising himself as a
bardie, the succulent white grub that ami-
able young lubras come far to find. Aquila,
under the name of Tortarquil, was a noble
chief drowned by a bunyip while bathing,
his two sons suiciding to dwell with their
father in the Karawinna.
Another Pleiades legend tells of the so-
journ of two ice-maidens, dwellers of the
misty heights where the sun-loving tribes
never wandered, at the camp-fire of Wurun-
nah the hunter. Alas! it only dimmed their
glittering, and now you may know them
by their lesser shining, and by the nearness
of the Berai-berai, two brothers who loved
them on earth, the bigger stars of Orion’s
Belt.
In Mflubooka, the Cross, you see the
four great warriors who fought and slew
each other for Namina of the melting eyes,
now with them in the heavens in an
“eternal pentagon.”
Jindang, Bwolluk. Muninjingerang, Bul-
gut, Tdadam, Narragara—there is a story
of love and bloodshed to every one of
them, and the distinct tribal legends are
innumerable. Travelling west, Dhakkan of
the rainbow, stealer of children, the hunted
of the storm-god, becomes the Mbalara of
South Australia; and Thugine of the North,
the scaled serpent-god whose children are.
the dugong, the pitta and many a bright-
barred bird, fish and insect.
Surprisingly often, Binghi’s naive abo-
riginal stories have a basis of solid truth.
His year he divided into six two-monthly
seasons, beginning with jilba. the spring-
time. The crude unwritten calendar varied
between 360 and 366 days, making ample
allowance for the vagaries of leap year.
His nose is flat, his beard is inky, and
his forehead “villainous low,” but his un-
canny gifts of divination and mimicry and
fancies and facts such as these lead us to
believe that the black Australian was not
such a contemptible fellow in his day.
Steeped in sunshine in a pleasant land, he
merely let a good working intellect run
down into a philosophic laziness. Which
is what some unkind people are saying now
of the white.
ERNESTINE HILL.
Haxby’s Circus
Katharine Susannah Prichard’s latest
novel, Haxby’s Circus (Gape: Dymocks),
is straight realism, yet not without romance
for the romantic-minded. The writer, for
one thing, equipped herself by travelling
round with VVirths, which is not only
romantic in itself but almost wildly so in
comparison with the customary method,
which is, to sit down and use the imagina-
tion; that is, rehash' what you have some-
time or other read about English circuses.
Again, she goes unsparingly “behind,” ruth-
lessly strips the circus people of their
spangles, and shows whereby the monkeys
and elephants and lions get their smell; and
yet the circus runs high above the sordid;
is, in fact, the very tented domain of
romance that it seemed when the world was
20 or 30 or more years younger.
As should be expected of a circus story,
there are plenty of excitements. There is
a slashing fight between the circus people
and a mob of shearers at night. There are
swift and terrible falls. There is a keeper
mauled in public by a lion. There is a
dwarf who goes to Hollywood, makes a
fortune, dies and leave £lOO,OOO to Gina,
who used to be a great and lovely bareback
rider until she was crippled at it and came
out of hospital with a deformed spine. It
quivers with incident. There is no dead
heart, as some may have found in “Coo-
nardoo.” There is something doing all the
time. It hairs here and there, but only
as the circus halts. It does not stop. The
movement is continuously forward, and.
rightly, there is no end. Haxby’s, having
declined and disintegrated, and been pulled
together again, and, with Rocca the dwarf’s
fortune, elaborately enlarged, is on the last
page a vastly different thing from the
Haxby’s of the opening pages, but no less
alive; and there it still is, still trying to
live up to its posters, after the book is
closed.
That is Haxby’s Circus as fiction enter-
tainment. There are other qualities. It
is a strictly private belief of mine, which
I may have mentioned once in public but
would not repeat for worlds, that, with one
or two exceptions, nobody is writing any-
thing in Australia to-day that could not
have been written at least 30 years ago.
Katharine Prichard is one of those excep-
tions. I am not sure who the other one is;
indeed, I am not sure there is another one.
The modernness of her work, however, is
so fresh and clean-stamped that it needs no
signpost. She is, to put it simply, alive
in her time and writing of it. There is
something else, the importance of which
I have known otherwise eminently sensible
persons to dispute—her work is Australian.
The number of persons who belive that
you can live in Australia and write auth-
entic, not to say great, literature wholly
about Peru and the Peruvians is as amazing
to me as my modest theory to the contrary
appears to be to them. There is another
class which I understand better, but which
seems to me to be .just as many miles off
what I conceive to be the track. These are
the persons—they include the majority of
Australian writers—who will not or cannot
take their country for granted. They read
as if they had been educated on guidebooks.
Their great objective is slavishly to avoid
writing a line or word that might make
some baker’s wife in Blighty pause long
enough to wonder, “Now, what does 'wal-
laby’ mean?” before letting the tenth of
a brain that people read novels with hasten
smoothly on. No; lam not advocating
Meredithian obscurity or Joycean shatter-
ing and mangling of the language. I am
merely suggesting that writing a guide-
book and writing a novel are two different
things and that people go to them for dif-
ferent reasons. Some day I hope to go
through an acre or two of Australian books
and drag out a bag of horrible examples.
But anyone can perform the office. It is
only necessary to keep a look-out whilst
reading and see how many times the author
will tell you in guide-book terms that he is
writing about Australia, as distinct from let-
ting you gather it yourself from the circum-
stances created by the story. “Still, in
Australia,” he writes, “that could be ex-
pected.” Why “in Australia”? Why rub
that in? It is crude, to say the least of it.
It is also patronising and most unneces-
sary. Katharine Prichard seems to me to
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —one of the foundation stones on which this firm is built.
Anthony
Horderns’
(THE SENIOR STORE)
Office Furniture at Economical
Prices!
The cost of furnishing an office or offices is an item which every business man must
study closely. For utility, quality and appearance must for many obvious reasons be
the chief points to consider—then there is the all important question of cost. That
must be low. We invite you to closely examine the values on this page—if
possible come m and see the actual furniture. It is made in our own factory from
selected timbers to a high standard of quality.
■
KB
11
y**
~ s
MtWWMnnm^
■ ' . ' ■ .
6-Drawer Office Table, £B/17/6
Here is a table of dignified yet simple design and of the
utmost utility. It has six roomy, easy-running drawers.
Made in best selected oak by skilled Australian workmen.
In two sizes.
4ft. 6in. x 2ft. 6in. Price £8 17 6
sft. x 3ft. Price £9 15 0
p&Mglf Ipf
U 1
Smj
nan
■ ■
P>**
S=F
Pedestal Desk for £l2/10/-
Here is another example of the remarkable value we offer
in office furniture. This is a flat-top pedestal desk in
oak. Four drawers in each pedestal and two pull-out
slides. Two useful sizes.
50in. x 30in. Price £l2 10 0
54in. x 30in. Price £l3
sdghsd
Revolving
Chair,
£5/19/6
At left we show
the ‘ ‘Kidney’ ’ —a
comfortable re-
volving and tilting
chair in Oak. Seat
and back uphol-
stered in Fabri-
koid.
Price, £5/19/6
You Can Use Our “D.P.S.”
Our Deposit-Purchase System is
at the service of customers
whenever more convenient than
paying cash. You pay a deposit
on the goods—they are put by
for you, and on completion of
payments to suit your conveni-
ence they are delivered in the
usual way. It costs no extra —
you pay the cash price only.
hsdhshsfd
Typist’s
Chair,
£2/17/6
At left we show
the “Emu”
Typist’s Revolving
Chair. Japanned
Black steel tubing
and Fabrikoid up-
holstering is used.
Price, £2/17/6
At Right, 75/-
The “B osk e r”
revolving and tilting
office chair. Well
finished in selected
Oak. Seat covered
in Fabrikoid.
Price 75/-
A
Table Above is only
£317/6
It is a two-drawer Typist’s
Table, made in finest selec-
ted Oak. Size, 36 x 20
inches. This is exceptional
value at £3/1 7/6.
You can ring us at any hour
of the day or night and leave
your order. ’Phone M 2401.
(Furniture Department—Ground Floor. We Deliver Free City and Suburbs only.)
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED,
SYDNEY
’Phone: M2J+Ol
Pay and Night
Postal Address;
Box 2712 C, Q.P.O.


r •:'*r- “ , w -'* •>'*
r*v>
flVjf
NB
sTCpS
Pm
ptf§
&
pt*
P£
o'°
f^
lv,
■W;
* Wv^
\'i>» w-
m. %*•>.
Nj,v s\
&? w.
£i * •:.. *
ssskM., ! ss§v>.' • 'Nsi-s: •-
&
j^>:
IP
■
J-:>. L
N§
SS<4'
'\» V\v
SsS>-'W
o>v
£&££
ms3f*
Tone Superb
and Housed
in Beauty!
ANNOUNCING Raycophone Radio— a new kind of
Radio.
Designed by Ray Allsop, Australian genius and world famous
radio engineer; made by the organisation responsible for
Australia’s proudest triumph in radio engineering,
Raycophone Talkie Equipment, which has no superior in the
world to-day.
Unless you have heard a Raycophone you can have no idea
what lasting and enjoyable entertainment it can bring into
your home. Better radio has not been seen or heard, and it
is priced to meet to-day s conditions.
See the brilliant new Raycophone models at Harringtons,
selected for Character and P ermanence as Australian
distributors.
RADIO DEALERS.
Retail outlets, first-class in character, are required for the
new Australian radio. If seriously interested, write for further
information to the nearest branch of Harrihgtons, Ltd., at the
address indicated below.
Ltd.
(Established 41 years.)
Radio, Cine and Photo Merchants.
Sydney
Melbourne
Brisbane
Adelaide
Hobart
Perth
Newcastle
Katoomba
Auckland (N.Z.)
Wellington (N.Z.)
386 George Street
266 Collins Street
212-214 Queen Street
10 Rundle Street
33 Elizabeth Street
28 King Street
84-86 Hunter Street
Katoomba Street
140 Queen Street
42 Willis Street
HI HIP'":
RAYCOPHONE
All-Electric 5-Valve Screen Grid.
Australia’s greatest radio set, sensationally low-priced.
Complete with Magnavox Dynamic aql «j /
Speaker (new X-Core type) .. Av j
Other Raycophone Models (including Country Sets)
from £25.
EASY TERMS MAY BE ARRANGED.
Your request will bring a beautiful illustrated price list FREE.
Address to Harringtons, Ltd., G.P.O. Box 4146 X, Sydney.
Name .
Address * ’ *


Full Banking
Facilities
The National Bank of Australasia Limited
provides full facilities for all banking
business, both in Australia and overseas.
To all its clients it extends the benefits which
attach to its Experience accumulated through
seventy years’ close contact with Australia’s
trade and development.
ESTABLISHMENT—S 03 Offices, spread through the
capital cities and country districts of the
various States of the Commonwealth, two
Offices in London, and Agents in every
important city of the world.
RESOURCES —Paid-up Capital of £5,000,000.
Reserve Fund of £3,200,000 (used in the
business) and total Assets £45,600,000.
Additional facilities at the Head Office, Mel-
bourne, include the:—
PUBLIC SAFE DEPOSIT, with individual safes at from
£l/5/- rent per annum, and storage space for
bulky valuables at special rates.
OVERSEAS SERVICE DEPARTMENT provides informa-
tion to travellers about money matters, tours,
and other items.
WOMEN’S BANKING SECTION, quiet and comfortable,
provides the full range of banking facilities.
c Uhe
NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office: 271-9 Collins St., Melbourne.
write so thoroughly well about Australia
because she will take it for granted that you
know it is Australia she is writing about.
She says: “He had given several of the
cows something to remember him by,” and
if you don’t know the Australian usage of
“cows” or are too stupid to gather it from 1
the fact that the ones he had given it to
were a dirty bad lot—well, as far as she
cares, that is your pigeon. She does not
hang tickets about with “Made, in Australia”
stamped on them; she says that like this: —
The boys had killed about nine snakes in about
two hours, the day before, black snakes mostly, four
or five feet long, looking like the lashes of bullock-
hide whips as they lay across the road or in fallen
timber near the river.
When she wants to say Australians, it is like
this:—
“I like you better than any girl I ever knew,”
he said. “I think we could make a do of things.
V e’d be good cobbers, always, at any rate.... even
after we were married.”
“Do you think so, Mart?”
These may be only the means, of second-
ary importance to the ends, but I think it
is to the ends only that they are secondary.
The theme, which, briefly, is the shaping of
Gina in the “fell clutch,” is the greatest of
those ends. It is a thing that could easily
have been a, mess of horrible sordidness
intensely purified to beauty. And I believe
that artistic achievement is as complete as
it is because Katharine Prichard accepts
that she is a novelist, not the director of
a tourist bureau, nor a second-hand dealer,
nor the provider of textbooks for semi-
naries.
CECIL MANN.
Patronising Adam
In his interesting note, “Oscar Patronises
Adam” (R.P. 6/8/’3O), S. Talbot Smith
remarks in passing that “Gordon was essen-
tially a writer of echoes, Swinburnian and
other.” Much the same thing is said so
often in Australian literary columns that
we are in danger of taking it for granted.
But is it fair or true? No one denies that
there are suggestions of the “older sons of
song” in his work, but he has a characteristic
note of his own if ever an Australian
writer had.
Are we not inclined to be a little too
highbrow about Gordon, as though he were
merely a horsey writer for the readers of
Nat Gould? There are faint echoes of
Browning, Swinburne and Byron in some
of his more serious work, but these are
far less obvious than, say, the influence of
Tennyson and others on Kendall, who wrote
at least a dozen of his more ambitious
poems in the then new metre of “Locksley'
Hall,” including one in praise of that metre.
Kendall, more lovable as a man and much
more melodious as a poet, was always the
more secondary writer of the two, but no
one has harped on the fact.
May not Gordon’s style recall that of
Browning and yet be all his own? Why
should it necessarily mean that he echoes
the older poet?
He is morbidly personal like Byron, but
that was inherited melancholia, not “Don
Juan.” It made him a gloomy moraliser
about life and death and finally it killed
him; but the dashing and manly Gordon
was surely no understudy of the pets and
poses of Byron. Still more unwarranted
is H. M. Green’s reference to “Ashtaroth”
as a “grandiose travesty of Goethe’s
‘Faust.’ ” “Ashtaroth” is an ambitious
failure, but clearly it is pure Gordon.
He was but a rough craftsman, a hasty
writer who did much of his scribbling in
the saddle or by camp slushlight. He had
the irritating habit of introducing scraps
and tags of foreign languages. He (like
Brunton Stephens, Evans, and many more
after him) included in book form much fugi-
tive stuff—the steeplechase rhymes, by which
many judge him. But he had the essential
poetic qualities of intensity and sincerity.
His weakness was never the weakness of
rhetoric. He had his own poetic vision,
such as it was. More than most poets he
wrote of the life he actually lived-, and not
from book influences. No one calls Gordon
a first-class poetic genius, but you cannot
dismiss him as “essentially a writer of
echoes.” Take “Ye Wearie Wayfarer” (and
especially the last section of it), “Finis
Exoptatus”; take “Joyous Guard,” and “In
Wattle Boughs” and “A Song of Autumn,”
and the dedication to “Bush Ballads,” and
you will find the best of Gordon without a
trace of imitative writing.
He has just as often been attacked on the
score of his alleged lack of an authentic
Australian note. His verse, we continue to
be told, is not Australian—or where it is
supposed to be, is not racy of the soil;
Gordon was always but a homesick exile,
and never became an Australian. It is
strange that such nonsense should continue
to be repeated. I have heard it repeated
by poets who, native-born themselves, wrote
nothing Australian, but were concerned only
with Greek dryads and fauns and such
imported properties of the poet’s workshop.
It is not only Oscar who patronises Adam.
No one blames a poet for following the
gleam where it leads. No one blames an
Australian poet for not writing about blue-
gums and sundowners. And Gordon not
only led a more typical Australian life than
most of his contemporaries, but he has
more of Australian spirit and Australian
landscape than half our bards. His “Hark
the Bells on Distant Cattle,” his “Lightly
the Breath of the Spring Wind Blows,” his
“Sick. Stockrider,” his dedication to the last
volume are so well known by Australians
that they need only naming here, and not
quoting.
Perhaps we were fed up in the first place
by “the egregious Douglas Sladen” (as P.
I. O’Leary called him), who slobbered all
over Gordon and overdid the hero-worship
as Mrs. Hamilton-Grey has done in the
case of Kendall. Special pleading of that
kind, especially by one of obviously worth-
less judgment, is a big handicap to any poet,
and it has probably harmed Gordon. But
half a century is not a bad test, and he is
still on our shelves.
JAMES DEVANEY.
“T.B.”
Arnold Bennett wrote a fine novel about
the reactions of an elderly man to pneu-
monia; Sanatorium, by Donald Stewart
(Chatto and Windus: Dymocks), is in
many ways a finer one about T.B. It is
enthralling partly because the author has
obviously seen and probably experienced the
sufferings he describes, and partly because
the descriptions are done with an austere
avoidance of anything like beautiful writing.
Clive begins his life at the sanatorium
with a bad haemoptysis (the patients call
them “mops”), and he has one a few hours
after he leaves eight months later. In the
interval he notes the physical and spiritual
effects of the disease on himself and his
companions. The censors would do some-
thing to justify their jobs if they kept this
book out of the hands of consumptives.
(“We consider it wise,” says the head of
the sanatorium to Clive, “to tell as little
as possible. Whatever we could tell you,
you would only brood and worry about.”)
But the healthy should read it if only to be
shown the triumphant joy of being well.
A Satchel of Books
Eurhythmies, Art and Education, by E.
Jaques-Dalcroze (Chatto and Windus). A
fine translation by EVederick Rothwell of a
score of challenging essays advancing the
importance of rhythm in art and education.
He argues that mere muscular virtuosity
should not be the objective in physical train-
ing, which should be conducted to develop
harmony between soul and body. It is a
thoughtful, intelligent book of wide educa-
tional appeal. The illustrations descriptive
of appropriate exercises are full of action.
The Story of a Surgeon, by Sir John
Bland-Sutton (Methuen). Kipling’s medico
friend tells of his own life —an odd but
fascinating collection of interests and inci-
dents, from birds’ nests to toxicology, from
mole-hunting to war operations. In 1884
he was “confidently teaching” quaint miscon-
ceptions of Australian and Maoriland nature
life, including the early beliefs about the
platypus, for his book upon which he highly
compliments Australian naturalist H. Bur-
rell. The illustrations, ranging from the
author seated with a small chimpanzee
beside him to his riding top-hatted with
Kipling in what looks like a pre-war vintage
motor-car,, fairly indicate the writer’s range
in life.
Animism, Magic and the Divine King, by
Geza Roheim (Kegan Paul). The author of
“Australian Totemism” makes another
packed contribution to knowledge of the
primitive mind and especially of the effect
sexualism had upon its workings. As in
all such studies, one of the most curious
items is the resemblance between customs,
taboos and superstitions in remotely separated
parts of the world. The book is more topical
than it might sound, for, of course, the ban-
ning of “All Quiet,” “Redheap,” Rabelais,
Defoe and the sundry dozen others in Aus-
tralia in this year of our Lord 1930 is a
clear survival of the primitive mind ruling,
as it ruled in the Dark Ages, over ignorance
and indifference.
Crime _in India, by Sir Cecil Walsh
(Benn), is a continuance of that fascinating
work “Indian Village Crimes.” These lucid
expositions of cases which have come under
the learned ex-Judge’s notice give a clearer
idea of the terrific difficulty of ruling Hind
even than the Simon Report. A murder in
India may be the result of a personal quarrel
over a length of bullock tether, an intrigue of
a native court, a crime passionel, a com-
munal piece of work in which an entire vil-
lage is concerned, a sacrifice to some deity,
or a combination of the lot. Add to which
the evidence is given in a myriad dialects in
a court surrounded by an open verandah full
of the babel of tongues; that the witnesses
usually lie, have been terrorised by their
castemen or suborned by somebody; and that
the prosecution is conducted by the most
corrupt body in the world, the Indian native
police—and the difficulties of the English
Solons can be dimly gauged. Some of the
true stories in this book must be classics
in legal literature. “The Biter Bit” is
staggering in its complexity; if all the
Edgar Wallaces in the world were to pool
their brains they could not have invented it.
In Here is Thy Victory (Elkin Mathews
and Marrot), Iris Barry exploits the notion
of involuntary immortality descending upon
England. The first inkling comes when vil-
lage registrars note that births a're as
usual but that natural deaths have fallen
away to nothing. The tendency spreads to
other parts, and is first hailed as a deliver-
ance, but when insurance offices begin to
close their doors and the cost of living starts
to rise, it is recognised as a national cala-
mity. There are mass meetings in London
demanding laws decreeing the painless ex-
tinction of all persons over 70 and there is
an increase in the murder of aged relatives.
There is a unique situation when bonfires
are lit and the whole country rejoices over
the news that an infant has died of diph-
theria, thus indicating that the Grisly One
has resumed his sway over humanity.' Con-
sidering that in America 50 p.c. of the popu-
lation in 1860 were under 20 and only 9 p.c.
were over 50, that in 1920 the ratio had
become 40 p.c. to 16 p.c. and that it is
estimated that in 1975 it will be 31 p.c.
to 26 p.c., there is some realistic justifica-
tion for the author’s theme, which is cleverly
worked out in the lives of a few ordinary
characters.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except 0} a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
H.G.D.: Too wordy; and there are no
banks in Australia with large reserves of gold. It
was all “mobilised” long ag0.... Sharpshooter:
Missed; but it gave us a de’il of a fright
L.E.0.: Plenty of material, but badly put together.
....R.A.G.: Can’t transplant your English roses....
R- W - : ‘Fate takes a hand” and reaches for the
basket. .. .F.C.L.: Fails to interest... .E.H.: Soli-
loquy in a graveyard declined. .. .J.F.K.: Mush and
melodrama.... J.P.: Crude' and inconsequential....
W.C.G.: No room for either M.A.P.: No arresting
quality in your policeman story A.L.: Lost ticket
yarn on the return trip A.M.C.: Old stuff
J.A.H.: Gruesome funeral yarn duly coffined
J.F.S.: Can’t smuggle in contraband story E.M.:
Regret no space for travel sketches... .C.C.T.: Needs
something more original by way of a plot
A.L.: Has a virile vocabulary, anyway J.E.S. : .No
promise of spring in your buds of humor J.P.:
Eight-nine-out!... .0.L.C.: Sending youthful efforts
home to bed P.C.: Unsuitable... .0.W.: Always
glad to hear of “the good old days of 01d”....
A. 8.5.: “Beautiful Trees” would need a lot of lopping.
.... J.K.: Fair ideas, but you don’t work them out
well.. . .T.S.P.: Now try to make a complete job
of it. It’s worth the trouble D. 8.: Flat as
matrimonial congratulations M.C.: Nothing doing
on the Embankment, nor in the way of private
criticism... .5.0.5.: “Doesn’t warrant your initials”
meant that the office soul bore up to it without aid.
You might place “September” elsewhere Parnus:
True, brother, true... .E.P.: Pity you can’t get the
incoherency out of your work. It reads like a
herd of good ideas stung by a shower of jellyfish.
F.A.S.: They miss by a yard or so P.L.P.:
The solemn ones makes the brightest reading
Elvie C.: “The Spirit of Winter” held out hopes
till it was discovered that you were not referring
to the real Queensland fluid A.C.: Those contrast
effects have to be a shade more than brilliant
U.S.U.: Even the Religious Editor couldn’t swallow
it, and he tried to wash it down with rum....
A ; B. J.: Agreed that “Governor Bligh” has the
genuine Australian atmosphere.... Leeroomba: None
of it lived up to “The Devil sat at the gate of
Hell and dangled his legs in space”.... B.O.: Sh.
C.I.T.: Sorry, but there is only one way in, and
that is on merit M.1.A.: Only work that has
never been published, and no great fancy for
French forms unless they hold thoroughly good stuff.
■■ • • Kismet (selected from three bags of similar
testimonials) :—■
“Alas, the End!”
Is it true, is it true?
Will no more you send
Of your great store
Of zoological lore?
Bush rats and bats
And kangaroos and
Birds of the jungle
Joyous and free—
I loved them all;
Alas, alack!
Bellerive the Big
Come back ! Come back !
.. . .A.J.K.: Thanks, and sorry the item doesn’t quite
suit... .E.E.: “What is Life?” Taxation, friend....
0.K.F.: Both out of range... .C.E.D,: The unex-
pected use of “vulgar” to rhyme with “mulga” was
a bright moment D.C.0’8.: Have heard “Christ-
mas Bells” better played... .S.J.W.: Right enough,
hut it would need more careful handling for general
consumption G.V.K.: The “Path” took a down-
ward trend. .. .A.P.M.: Brady’s “His Lights Are
Out” was published in The Bulletin on April 15,
1899 ; Gordon’s “Argenmone” on October 20, 1891.
B.C.: A first edition of Kipling’s “Life’s Handi-
cap” is worth 255.; others mentioned are of no
value M. 8.: “Masterpiece Library of Short
Stories” (£5) ; “Colombine” (7s. 6d.) ; “Susan
Lennox” (155.) N.N.: The records show that
22.25 per cent, of the A.I.P. were born beyond the
Commonwealth. There were 4214 from Maoriland,
64,221 from the U.K., 2246 from other British
countries, and 3137 foreigners E.R.C.: Pity you
didn’t treat it in a style of your 0wn.... Muriel G.:
You may do better 5.8.5.: What, hasn’t Amy
gone yet 1 .... Ming: Glad they had a happy birth,
anyway. .. .D.D.: You’ve a long way to go and a
lot of work in front of you yet Strath: Stirred
by the idea of the trees flying away at night, but
inclined to blame something stronger than “love’s
pqtions”. ... Bud: Have heard better remarks
addressed in the same direction... .0.K.F.: But
surely this can’t be Canberra?:—•
’Tis but a fallacy
Born out of jealousy
Mated so carelessly
Suckled with graft.
Y.A.: Where on earth did you get that pink ink?
And why not send in the original copy instead of
what you blotted it with ? D.C.0.8.: Looks as if
“Memories” will now pan out level with “Spring”
in the fecundity stakes... .G.E.8.: Can’t say. You
might become a, writer, and, on the other hand-
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.G.K.: “Out” said the umpire... .?.F.T.: Stolid
drawings and spiritless jests W. 8.: Don’t care
for your wallaby shooters... .N.F.D.: Ladies are
beefy enough, but no meat in the jokes L.R.8.:
Did the dozen in a day? Take a dozen days to do
one and let’s see it.... .S.A.Q.:. A tiresome couple.
E.K.A.: Promising, except for the commonplace
composition.. . . F.F.T.: No talent there W.Y.:
You haven’t mastered the rudiments yet C. 8.:
They shan’t mumble threats to one another here.
... .J.T.S.: Hopeless.... .A. A.: Made us drowsy...
P.0.R.: Mournful stuff 8.E.J.: Not the place for
“The Bottle-oh’s Wedding”.. . .S.M.: At least you
have patience.. . .D.M.P.: Spent a restless night
after viewing those horrors. .. .H.J.: Nothing start-
ling... .S.F.: Carry on, but change the brand of
humor. .. .N.C.H.: You’re quarter of a century behind
with the joke K.L.: Only a miracle would land
you in print R.S.G.: Turned the hose on that old
fire gag W.A.E.: Give it up. What does it mean?
. ...A.C.Y.: You’re making very slow progress....
P.R.: Mildewed joke. .. .M.K.0.: Without merit....
A. 8.5.: Not interested in choristers’ opinion of vicar’s
sermon... .L.J.D.: No thanks... .C.0.U.: “The
artist is 12 years old.” Exhibit in proof accepted.


9
MxSmkimmii!
m *
* ■ *
>e- .
• 1
i #*« 'Mt :
m
..
UK , mmm
mm
k
m
*
* 3SM f
M
\ i
rr /
m
nn
■
iW
v j
mmr
A
: I
n
■
V
K
Wf i
■
■
3
I m i
. V*W
t


The Bulletin
Vol. 51.—N0. 2637.
August 27, 1930.
“WAGGING IT.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 211, George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: 111,-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westkalia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : S 6 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5793.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 1,5.; 6 months, 12s. 6d. ;
S months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
C months, 15s. Cd.; S months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand,
Papua and Fiji: 605., Id. United Kingdom: 1,05.,
Id.; All Sea Route: 605., Id. U.S.A.: lioz. or part
thereof, Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
BINGHI’S MYTHOLOGY, by Ernestine Hill.. 2
KATHARINE SUSANNAH PRICHARD’S
NEW BOOK 2
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. .. 0
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON . . . . 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
WHO’S GOT ALL THE MONEY? .. ..8
“WHAT’S THE MATTER WITH ENGLAND?”
By James Edmond, Hector Dinning and
Commander Rolleston . . .. 8
OVERPEOPLED COUNTRIES 8
CULMINATION DAY 9
THE £ s. d. SHANTYKEEPER 9
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 9
POLITICAL POINTS (with cartoonlets by
Frith) ..10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. 11, 12
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 13
FISHERY POSSIBILITIES 13
THE BURDEN OF THE MIDDLEMAN .. 13
THE GOLDEN GOBLIN 13
MOTOR FINANCE 13
PERSONAL (with four caricatures) .. ..14
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL Id
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..16
THE SHOW OF THE WEEK 16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS . . . . .. 17, 18
SIR OTTO AND THE MARKET 17
ELDER, SMITH’S 17
SILVERTON TRAMWAY 17
CRESCO FERTILISERS 17
WALKERS 17
STANDARD PORTLAND CEMENT . . . . 17
INVESTMENT QUESTIONS ANSWERED .. 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 20, 21
MAN ON THE LAND 22, 25
SOIL MOISTURE AND SALT 22
PRAISE FOR THE SMOOGER 22
A TOBACCO-GROWING EXPERIENCE . . 22
FARM QUESTIONS ANSWERED .. ..25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT 26
SMOKE-OH (with drawings) .. .. .. 28
POVERTY POINT 31
THE PALETTE -.31
THE INKY WAY 31
SHADOW SHOWS 33
SPORTING (illustrated) 35, 36
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE RACING .. 35
INTERNATIONAL FOOTBALL 35
TEST CRICKET 36
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 39
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 41
JTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 44
NEW SERIAL—
“Thirty Pieces of Silver,”
By Montague Grover .. ..42, 43, 45
AS WE SAID BEFORE (with drawings by Phil
May and “Hop”) .. .. .. .. 47
COMPLETE STORY—
“ZED, IN FRENCH,” by Margaret Fane and
Hilary Lofting . . .. .. 49, 50
VERSE —By “Gerardy,” I). P. McGuire . . 45, 50
7^'^uUeiz/n.
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 27, 1930.
WHO’S GOT ALL THE MONEY?
Thk Bulletin empanelled a jury in an
industrial suburb and put this question:
“What caused the present industrial depres-
sion?” The reply, communicated after
discussion, was: “Money has been tied up
in order to bring about a reduction of
wages.” There is no doubt that this repre-
sents the opinion of a very large number,
if not a majority, of those who usually vote
Labor. Many of them quote, as proof
that there can be no real cause for depres-
sion, the fact, widely published, that the
deposits in Australian banks amount to
over 300 millions. And the question gener-
ally follows: “Now, who’s got all that
money?” .
This matter calls for serious attention. It
explains the attitude of the Federal Labor
Government towards many things, including
the demand for economy.
It is quite true that the deposits of the
12 trading banks of Australia, including
the Commonwealth Bank, exceed 300 mil-
lions. Their average during the first
quarter of the year was, in fact, 302 mil-
lions. But any such figures are worse than
meaningless unless we find out what de-
posits really are.
John Brown, who has a Savings Bank
account, knows what his deposit is. He
knows that Mrs. Brown takes real notes and
silver and leaves them with the bank. What
else, then, but money can deposits be?
Let us go to the N.SW. Government
Savings Bank and try to find out: this
anyway, isn’t one of your capitalist banks;
it is a people’s bank. So many John
Browns have gone to it with their notes
and silver that on June 30 of last year
the balance at credit of depositors was
£73,960,679. Reserves and odd amounts
carried the total to £76,631,925. Now, it
is advisable that this bank should have
an exceptionally lai’ge holding of cash,
because practically all its deposits ai*e at
call; yet of the total of £76,631,925 the
money on hand and at bankers and in transit,
including deposits at call with the Trea-
sury, was no more than £4,229,887. Of the
balance of over 72 millions, 31 millions had
been lent to the Government for public
works, and over four millions to the Com-
monwealth for similar purposes, four and a
half millions had gone in making advances
to settlers, 10 millions are represented by
advances made for building homes, nearly
three millions had been lent to municipali-
ties for road-making, etc., and, among
smaller items, nearly two millions are in
office premises. To meet the demands
which may be made by the depositors, the
bank holds the four millions already men-
tioned and has another 15 millions on fixed
deposit with the N.S.W. Treasury and trad-
ing banks. To represent the other 57 mil-
lions it has a heap of paper showing that the
money is in railways, roads, farms and houses.
And what is true of the savings banks is
true of the trading banks. Though they
have over 300 millions of deposits, they
have less than 16 millions of coin among
them; for the rest they get along with 32
millions of paper. This is less than the total
of their own funds, apart altogether from
deposits. That is to say, an amount in
excess of all the deposits is out at work,
and the money is only represented in the
banks’ safes by deeds of property, Gov-
ernment bonds, mortgage debentures, bills
lodged for discount, shares lodged for
security and other such instruments.
Labor never need worry about banks
“tying up” the people’s money so that the
people do not get the use of it; what they
ought to sbe to is that banks do not hand
out too much of the people’s money. When
the financial crisis occurred in the ’nineties
and was followed by much unemployment,
there was the same outcry as there is to-
day : somebody was keeping the money from
the public. Actually, however, the banks
had handed out money far too lavishly,
so that deposits were not there when the
public wanted them. In the Commercial
Bank of Australia, for example, the deposit-
ors, with a few exceptions, had therefore to
leave one-third of their money in the busi-
ness, one-third of it was repayable in 20
years and the other one-third indefinitely—
all because millions which wei’e supposed
by some people to be in money had actu-
ally been advanced to people to buy houses
and land and sundries, and it would take
years to convert those houses, lands and
sundries back into money.
But, it is said, when somebody buys a
house somebody sells it; therefore, though
the bank-advance to the buyer may be
represented by a title deed and a mort-
gage, the seller will have the money to
deposit. In short, the quantity of money
has not been reduced. But while it has not
been reduced it has not been increased.
You cannot increase the nation’s stock of
real money by merely selling something to
a neighbor. A block of land, sold for £5O,
may be resold for £lOO, and sold a third
time for £5OO. But the stock of money in
the country will not have been increased
by one farthing, though the figures in
certain bank-books will, of course, have
increased greatly.
The amount of deposits in a bank or any
number of banks does not, then, govern the
quantity of money available. Actually
there rarely is much money in a country:
what looks like money is credit. Periods
of depression come, not so much because
people will not spend their money (though
that is one factor) as because for some
reason or other they cannot command
credit. And generally one chief reason they
cannot command credit is that there is a
shortage of real money, which shortage
always threatens a collapse of values. This
real money, as we have seen, is not to be
made by printing paper. It is only to be
made in any country by (1) digging local
gold; (2) attracting the gold of over-
seas tourists; (3) producing goods which
can be exchanged for other countries’ gold
in excess of the quantity required to pay
for imports and foreign interest. We in
Australia are desperately short of money
because we have not produced enough to
pay even our foreign bills. Our real money
has therefore dwindled; and so, in spite
of all the big figures in our banks’ balance-
sheets, credit has been, and is, difficult to
get. True, the banks still have 32 millions
in paper, as well as their 16 millions of coin.
But it has to be remembered that banks
are built upon credit, too; and they must
be prepared to meet any sudden demand
for repayment that might be made upon
them or any one of them. For that purpose
they are sitting tight upon this 48 millions
—not a great deal considering that they
owe to depositors over 300 millions. Much
too little, their present critics would say,
if the same thing should happen now as
happened in the ’nineties. Yet that is all
the money that is “tied up.” As for the
rest, which some of the public complains
that somebody unspecified is withholding,
some of it has gone away to pay the debts
which we have neglected to pay for many
years past; the bulk of it simply never
existed:
“WHAT’S THE MATTER WITH
ENGLAND?”
The gist of three out of a heap in reply
to C. R. Bradish (B. 13/8/’3O): —
James Edmond: England has about
060 inhabitants to the square mile, and
is the most densely peopled country in
the world with the possible exception of Bel-
gium. Australia, with about two per mile,
is the most thinly peopled habitable country
in the world, ana is now hard put to it to
keep such population as it possesses. When
two extremes meet, the younger extreme is
apt to set down the elder as an ass. Crowd-
ing tends to give the impression of misery,
and in fact .it is misery. Even the United
States has only one-twentieth as many
people to a given space. That may mean
that J. Bull’s land has 20 times as much woe
to the mile, also perhaps 20 times as much
happiness, but happiness is less conspicuous.
“Everywhere is that peculiar air of las-
situde, that terrible air of slackness which
goes with old age.” There is no sin in look-
ing old if one is old. But Mr. Bradish also
charges the Englishman with childish exuber-
ance over tennis and other sports and a
maddened skying of hats, and the two hardly
fit in.
The statement that English literature is in
a backwash I will neither deny nor affirm.
Shakspeare is certainly dead, and so are
Byron, Shelley, Milton, Tennyson, Dickens
and a lot more. Most people are dead and
have been most of the time. Even Aus-
tralia writes a great deal about Marcus
Clarke, Kendall, Lawson, Daley and their
tribe, when it would be better employed in
replacing them.
Mr. Bradish defines Australia as a land
where men "must be men or starve.” But
for a number of years another idea has been
that men must be successful borrowers or
starve. And for a number of years Eng-
land has acquiesced in the idea that it must
be a liberal lender oLAustralia would starve.
Now the tacit agreement has come to grief
and Australia is put on its manhood. The
results, at time of writing, are not decided.
Hector Dinning: Let no one suppose
there is nothing in Mr. Bradish’s observa-
tions. There is real decadence in England.
English modesty is overdone —until it has
become a disease. The best brains of Eng-
land are lying fallow because their pos-
sessors are afraid of being thought uppish if
they attract attention by using them publicly.
The sexes in England are converging fast
—physically and emotionally. The standards
of comfort and safety are fatuously high in
England and are cramping the initiative of
first-class people. The social barriers which
the war began to break down have been re-
erected. The English public schools are still
designed to breed a race of snobbish pro-
consuls whose life’s ambition is to lord it
over subject races. Englishmen are still so
lapped in smug and slumberous security that
if another war came to-morrow they would
do no more than muddle through it again
—and boast of it. They hadn’t the initiative
(with everything in their favor) to wrest the
lead in talking-film production from America.
And so on and so forth.
But when all this has been said, it is the
Australian, rather than the Englishman, who
has most to learn from the other. If the
Englishman is indifferent to the Australian’s
point of view, the Australian is contemptuous
of his. Australians are always _ confound-
ing English finesse with the finicky mind
—confounding English respect for authority
with the craven spirit; interest in general
ideas with impracticality; standards of com-
fort with mere degeneracy; respect for
leisure with laziness. Both nations, which
now misunderstand each other profoundly,
should get together more. The two national
characters are really complementtiry; an
average of both would make a combination
which nothing could withstand. English-
men are too 1 much given to finesse; Austral-
ians are too slapdash. Englishmen waste
time and energy on superlative degrees of
comfort; Australians low T er tlieir efficiency by
not considering it enough. Englishmen over-
do both civic and army discipline; Aus-
tralians dissipate themselves by having too
little. Englishwomen have too much leisure
for their good; Australian women grow old
before their time' by working too hard.
Englishmen are too doctrinaire in both busi-
ness and politics ; Australians are too prag-
matic. The English' are too safe and
cautious; Australians plunge disastrously.
Mr. Bradish’s is the first impression which
almost any Australian gets of England—
inevitably. But it is not —-thank Heaven
the last. Further experience of that com-
plex. baffling and unobtrusive country should
piodify Mr. Bradish’s first impression pro-
.....
C. H. Rollcston, Commander R.N.
(retired) : Many English people have come to
this country, and, after too short a stay, have
expressed adverse opinions on the way things
are done here, only to be ridiculed and in-
sulted for “impertinence.” Now Mr. Bradish
does the same thing in England. He
refers to himself as living in a part
of the Empire “where men must be men or
starve.” This at a time when vast armies
of unemployed—not unemployable—are
being fed here with Government and charity
rations and are being found work to pay
for which their fellow-workers are being
specially taxed! Thousands of these men
are men, but they ate starving all the same,
or i would be were it not for the relief
measures referred to.
I must protest against Mr. Bradish refer-
ring to the Englishman as being “still a
victim of the delusion of the supposed import-
ance of being a gentleman.” Is* it of no
importance that a man, in whatever walk of
life or whatever be his income or attainments,
should be able to behave with courtesy, con-
sideration and fairness towards other people?
To Mr. Bradish the Englishman appears
as a sort of Burlington Bertie who sees
nothing funny in “cricketers being proclaimed
giants and heroes.” The same issue of The
Bulletin contains this: “Perth leads the
way —Bradman-street has just been gaz-
etted!”
Mr. Bradish’s tilt against tradition brands
him as the possessor of a marked inferiority
complex. “The trouble with England is her
determination to maintain all her tradi-
tional venerations.” Why not? They harm
nobody, they are historical —a country with-
out a history is like a man without a coun-
try—and they provide examples of conduct,
chivalry and courage as standards for younger
generations.
Mr. Bradish should remember one or two
other things as well. First, Australia, not
England, is now the highest taxed country
on earth. Second, England is paying her
debts, whereas Australia can’t unless
“arrangements” are made. Third, it was
an English army composed presumably or
Mr. Bradish’s “obvious pretty-pretty boys,
plainly more addicted to exercising the lip-
salve than the dumb-bells,” that held up the
Germans in the early days of the war. And,
fourth. Mr. Bradish might remember that if
it were not for the British navy, wandering
Melbourne journalists would be found work
under some other Flag, which would prevent
them, wasting their talents at the old pastime
of baiting father and mother.
In his last few lines Mr. Bradish does
admit that when the bugles blow again he
has no doubt the English will spring to
their weapons in thousands. But if they
have got so effete as Mr. Bradish seems to
think, they might as well save themselves the
effort of springing.
OVER-PEOPLED COUNTRIES.
When European unemployment is under
debate it is often mentioned, and generally
with a kind of wonderment, that France
is an exception to the carking nuisance.
Here and there another country is free of
it for a time, but France seems to be free
all the time. It has no unemployed who are
capable of work except those who dodge
work with difficulty, and white labor is
imported from neighboring regions in some
seasons to fill a gap. Emigration is small,
there being few emigrants to spare. And
this result isn’t due to the blessings of
Freetrade or any corresponding tripe. France
got a great deal too much Freetrade in the
period before the Great Original Revolution,
and a good deal more before the Revolution
of 1870. It seems to help revolutions along,
but not much else.
As a possible explanation France is less
subject than the average to the birth-
rate superstition. It is a common saying
that when once a race ceases to grow it is
perishing of degeneracy and its end is in
sight. It is even said that whenever it
ceases to grow fast the Devil has got his eye
upon it. Yet there is reason to believe that
every race has taken a rest from the spec-
tacular birth-rate, or excess of births over
deaths, and has even gone in for loss of
inhabitants at times in its career, and been
little or none the worse in the end. Other-
wise it is difficult to see how suffocation
could have been averted despite wars and
other happenings. England and Wales are
known to have multiplied their inhabitants
400 per cent, between 1801 and 1911, a
period of 110 years. This was done despite
emigration on a large scale. The rise was
from under 9 millions to over 36 millions.
But the birth-rate must have taken long
rests between the time of Egbert and
George V., otherwise a population of 1000
in Egbert’s day would have increased to
64 millions instead of to nine millions by
1801, and the English people over whom
Egbert ruled certainly numbered more than
a pitiful thousand. Yet the nation, which
was in the midst of the Napoleonic War m
1801, showed no sign of degeneracy even
if its birth-rate had been collapsing at
intervals for a thousand years. If the
increase of 1801-1911 is maintained for an-
other 111 years, the population of England
and Wales will be about 150 millions at the
end of the period, or 2600 to each square
mile. Then life will be a vast tenement-
house and one inordinate slum. And if the
vigor of the race could survive a develop-
ment like that it should survive anything,
even burial.
The French aren’t the decaying race
that they are frequently assumed to be, but
their increase by excess of births over deaths
is slow and dignified. These are some recent
figures for four States with very similai
populations, France being the most popu-
lous save one: —
Excess of Births over Deaths..
England-Wales. Prussia. Italy. France.
1913.. 376,452 652,961 458,516 72,280
1925.. 237,741 345,906 438,710 60,Q84
1926.. 240,759 308,287 414,280 52,768
1927.. 169,563 252,328 453,929 60,042
1928.. 199,827 275,535 430,174 70,205
1929.. 111,693 ' 375,152
The Italian mother thus gives the most
thrilling imitation of a rabbit, though the
Prussian one did so in pre-war days. On
the other hand, the Frenchwoman is least
like the furry animal, but it may be men-
tioned to her credit that France had a bigger
net birth-rate at last advices than in 1925,
while its three neighbors hadn’t.
It is impossible to say how big the
increase by surplus births ought to be to
avoid the slur of “race suicide” or some-
thing of the sort, for the Scripture doesn t
say, and it is hard, for various reasons,
to define the wrong done to the infant by
it not being born. No one knows where it
is, or which infant it is, and how it likes
not being born, or how it would have en-
joyed life if it had been bom. It is at
least something to own a country where
work is plentiful and hungry infants are
scarce, and where the race keeps up its
fighting strength With a margin to spare.
Man-power and cannon-power are closely
related. The desire for an ever-growing
and fast-growing population in a country
which is already threatened with difficul-
ties about its food supply is really a war
measure of the worst sort. There is a fear
lest the small birth-rate or roomy baby may
not be numerous enough to kill off the big
birth-rate or crowded baby when they both
grow up, and the war for which they were
both bom falls due. It is a race of arma-
ments to which there is no definite end and
the results are wholly uncertain. But if a
time comes when four persons are trying
to live on the average English acre, one
result will have been achieved for certain,
and another when there are eight to the
acre.
SOL MADAFROP.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Culmination Day.
THE BETTER ’OLE.
“Despite the urgent requests of State Premiers and Treasurers that he should stay in Australia and see the financial crisis through, Mr. Scullin left for London on
Thursday."
OLD BILL SCULLIN: “If you know of a better ’ole, go to it! This one will do me.”
If there is space for another holiday, August
20 might possibly be sandwiched in as Cul-
mination Day. The Loan Council was in
.session prior to the Prime Minister’s depar-
ture for Britain. Niemeyer of the Bank of
England and the chairman of the Common-
wealth Bank were present, for the days of
official secrecy are over. The Prime Mini-
ster was at home in bed most of the time,
and, in his official capacity, penniless. It
was explained to the Councillors that
£5,000,000 was due in London in a few days
and nobody had the money; also that an-
other £30,000,000 or more may fall due
there any time and it isn’t provided for
either. As regards the local situation,
£5,000,000 is due here almost instantly, and
nothing is in sight. Australia owes many
millions payable on demand to banks here
and abroad, and the banks here explained
that unless the Treasurers found more
money of their own their cheques would
begin to come back unpaid because the
institutions’ coffers are not inexhaustible.
The State Treasurers thereupon com-
posed an ultimatum for Scullin (temporarily
out of bed). Its tenor was that the pay of
Federal Ministers, ttiembers and civil ser-
vants must come down. They could only
be kept up by the Commonwealth hogging
all the money that new taxes can drag out
of the nation, and the States must hog
some of it, or things will happen. If
Scullin had attained office on the promise
of no reduction in any circumstances, that
was his own affair. If he couldn’t assent
to a reduction without his Cabinet losing
its job, there would be either a new Cabinet
or an almighty crash, and the fact could be
wirelessed to Scullin on the high seas, and
the captain could put him ashore somewhere.
It was resolved that Australia’s money
matters should be placed in the hands of
a committee of political men and others,
and that the Federal Parliament should
stand by ready to meet almost any time. If
these measures don’t answer, the next step
will no doubt be the appointment of im-
ported (representatives of oversea bond-
holders on the Committee of Financial
Control; and that will be rather too much
like what happened to Turkey and Egypt
to be comfortable.
4
Men Who Matter.
Three years ago, foreseeing the inevitable
approach of a crisis unless extraordinary
measures were taken, The Bulletin
urged again and again that the leaders of
the trade unions of Australia and the direc-
tors of the Commonwealth Bank should be
brought together. The board of the people’s
bank has known, must have known, what
was coming and why it was coming.
Plainly the union leaders did not know
what was coming, and now that it has come
—or is at least on the doorstep—they do
not know what brought it.
How should they know? For the most part
they hear one another and read one an-
other, wherefore they are merely confirmed
in their opinions, whether right or wrong.
Doubtless there are some among them who
have a glimmering of the truth—at least
a suspicion that something is wrong some-
where. But for the most part these are
in Parliamentary or other jobs and depend-
ent on the votes of the Labor rank and
file, and they prefer to save their own jobs
by saying either nothing at all or what they
are expected to say. Nobody who has
watched Federal Ministers during the past
few weeks can have any doubt that Mr.
Scullin is in precisely that position. The
time spent by Sir Otto Niemeyer and
others in addressing Labor politicians is,
therefore, almost wasted. It is not they
who stand in need of conversion; not
they who need the light. It is their bosses.
Three years ago it was urgently neces-
sary that financiers who did know should
be brought into contact with the union
leaders, who obviously don’t. It is more
urgently necessary now. Then those leaders
were not the real rulers of Australia. To-
day they are. Without their help Aus-
tralia may be saved from a most serious
crash, but it will be saved only with diffi-
culty, if at all. It is no use deluding our-
selves with the idea that these gentlemen
in Melbourne can get us out of our difficul-
ties—that it is merely a matter of arranging
for somebody to pay a few millions of inter-
est for us. That will help us out of one ditch,
to land us in another. We can escape only
by a complete revision of our creeds. Things
that we have regarded as indispensables we
shall have to learn are pious aspirations.
Nobody wants to believe this, least of all
the men who have been proudest of our
standard of living. Nobody on the Tahiti
the other day wanted to believe that the
vessel was going to founder, and they must
give up their comfortable cabins and take
to the boats. But they had to do it, all
the same. If the ship is sinking it is only
a fool who will stay in his comfortable
cabin, protesting that to talk of drowning
is absurd—why, he never felt drier in his
life! That is what union leaders are doing.
If they are right, they ought to meet
Robert Gibson and his board or some other
body of financial and economic experts, and
show why. At any rate, as we have seen
during the last few months, their influence
is far too great to allow, them to be dis-
regarded.
4
The £ s. cl. Shanty-keepers.
While Sir Otto Niemeyer is telling us
home truths, he might spare a word or
two for some people in his own city of
London. It is quite true that we have
been fools and a good many of our poli-
ticians have been rogues; but at the other
end of the world have been people greedily
ready to make capital out of the Australian
people’s folly, and the politicians’ roguery,
They have been the ginshops on the corner
of the mean streets tempting the poor
half-drunks in to continue their debauch
and complete their degradation.
A perfectly respectable calling, of course,
this of loan-mongering; and many a man
has been knighted and a few have even
been made peers for .their distinguished
services in this way. But there is no ques-
tion at all that so far as Australia was con-
cerned they knew whither we were drifting;
they knew or they should have known that
the money was being used to debauch the
electors, to rob them of reason and gener-
ally to demoralise them; yet they went on
lending, just as the shanty-keeper of the
worst sort goes on handing liquor over the
bar. Something ought to be said to them,
too.
In Australia there is a pretty general
realisation of the fact that we have made
fools of ourselves; in the centre of the
Empire it is to be hoped that there will
be a realisation that the fault is not wholly
ours. .
' .
Joy-riding to Trouble.
Dear Bulletin, —Everyone is blaming
everyone else for the trouble that has come
upon Australia. Labor is blaming the
Nationalists, and the Nationalists are
blaming Labor. Communists are blaming
,
capitalists and capitalists Communists
I suggest that the situation is largely _ -
outcome of the motor-car craze, and, m a
lesser degree, of the craze for looking at
moving pictures.
We imported motor chassis, bodies, parts,
cycles, petrol, etc., at the rate of about
£20,000,000 p.a. This was the chief factor
in making our balance of. trade a world’s
joke until the overseas creditor ceased to
see any humor in it; for we borrowed the
factor. That is to say, the country did.
We individuals, with few exceptions, got
our cars by mortgaging our salaries or our
homes, or both.
That, of course, is only part of the story.
We demanded speedways, and States, muni-
cipalities, even the Commonwealth (which
was supposed to have nothing to do with
road construction, except in Federal terri-
tory) hastened to oblige. The Common-
wealth furnished £2,000,000 p.a., chiefly for
speedways, conditionally on the States pro-
viding another £1,500,000 p.a. from loans; a
minor concern like the N.S.W. Main Roads
Board shovelled out £4,500,000 in a year;
and local bodies dutifully fed the boom.
And to enable motorists to get to and away
from the city a bit quicker, undertakings
like the Sydney Harbor bridge (cost to
date £6,500,000), which don’t add a penny
to the wealth of the country, were light-
heartedly commenced. Naturally the
accompanying tax-burden has been great,
and it has been doubled at least by the
necessity for making up the losses. on the
once-profitable Government railways and
tramways, caused by the diversion of traffic
to the speedways—3o millions in five years
on the railways alone.
Coal-mining has suffered along with the
railways. Many of the speedways (for
which, by the way, £400,000 worth of bitu-
men and asphalt was imported in 1928-29)
run parallel with Government lines on which
engines built in Australian workshops bum
diminishing quantities of Australian coal,
Farmers have caught the car contagion, and
developed also a mania for buying expen-
sive tractors, one after another. Some, ot
course, have got good work out of their
tractors; others have got into difficulties,
Power-farming, as it is called, ,has been
associated with much slipshod farming, there
being a deplorable tendency to put in big
areas badly; it has also narrowed the
market for horsefeed and contributed to the
decline of horse-breeding. Australia ex-
ported £227,000 worth of horses to Asia in
1910, and only £llO,OOO worth in 1928-29,
although—as disappointed buyers periodi-
cally tell us—the demand is greater than
ever.
The moving pictures, for their part, have
been a steady drain on the wealth of the
nation, and have given it nothing in return
but vulgar amusement in which false stand-
ards of living, bad morals and manners
and vile English are made to appear
“smart.” “Trade follows the film and the
movies have assisted the sale of the motor-
car, but it figures m them chiefly as a coarse
pleasure vehicle, driven as likely as not by
‘ Qme whigky _ goaked or spee d-intoxicated
bounder who calls the accompanying trollop
« baby ” j have a better opinion of a noble
j nvenk ; on than that, nor do I undervalue
w hat it has done in removing the isolation
0 f lonely people and bringing swift succor
to the suffering. I see a great future for the
motor-car in Australia; rightly used, it will
be a means of putting an end to the tragic
over-population of our cities. But so far
Australia has not made a rational use of it,
and Australia is paying the penalty.—Yours,
etc., Tuart.
♦
The Bridge.
. ~ , ,
The joining of the arches of Sydney s
harbor bridge last week symbolised a num-
ber of things—the city s boldness and
energy; what Australian workers can do
when overseas agitators leave them alone;
Australian lavishness; the spirit of pagan
modernism. Particularly the last. Com-
mumties put money into bridges now where
they used to put it into cathedrals.
It is a great investment—for Sydney,
When, next year, or early in 1932, trains
start crossing it, the bloating of the most
bloated city on earth, relatively to the
national population, will proceed still more
terrifically. Sydney must emerge as the
Commonwealth’s natural centre on the
Pacific—the inevitable focus point oi trade,
commerce and culture. And as it grows
it seems equally inevitable that the wholly
artificial Canberra must fall further and
further into the background.


1
vs • r:
'. V.
‘. .s
: •
7; ' p>.*\ .y-;*^
~< N
1 ' v
I ! J- ,
l I ii ii:
: \
V'vk V-
-I\..
% mt;2
if\
i.3k
NS\X\ N
sssssss:
: p ; i
-J. S :i.^^®^’iiia—————a«-i9 -
=l fc= it Wr
Ssi S
Ht^
N\
* ’ » N
'7?:V#":":S
.vwwvv\v>v:l.,. .:.’.%w»»>»v;
A‘V».,
if^
•V. N
?V
V • "H'^n
i v””;.*“a
;
i: ~.* \
\?
v'' 1 ' N : : >^\\\\iN\
sjo4a
SHELL
MAKES
GOOD CARS
BETTER
.V' ? V:: • ■
BE tU
POLITICAL
POINTS
A good deal has been done at a good deal
of expense in the importation of overseas
experts to advise on affairs hereabouts.
Recent advisers have been George Buchanan,
whose remarks about railways and harbors
roused Queensland Ministers to fury; Fay
and Raven, on the N.S.W. railways; the
Big Four, whom Bruce and Page brought
here to consider matters in general; and,
finally, Otto Niemeyer. The counsels of the
first seven doctors were paid for and scorned
by the patient, who .said he was quite cap-
able of looking after himself. But Sir Otto
got a profoundly respectful hearing because
he was called in almost too late, when it
W'as uncertain whether the case wasn’t one
for a priest rather than a medico.
Alderman Jock Garden has discovered
a .sovereign remedy for “the deep crisis we
are in” —-“reduce working time to 36 hours
a week and increase wages 25 per cent.”
Well, suppose Sydney Trades Hall and
Opposition-leader Lang try it themselves and
report? If it is a good thing for the country
at large it can’t be bad for trade-unions
and house-agents.
The A.W.U.’s great political nostrum in
other days was “a vigorous public works
policy to absorb the unemployed.” Its
specific for the slump which is a result of
that policy is “a levy on wealth,” although
the Federal and State Treasurers are levy-
ing on wealth at a great rate. Many A.W.U.
men work for the Broken Hill Prop., the
greatest manufacturing concern in the Com-
monwealth. In twelve months the market
price of a B.H.P. share has fallen from
295. 6d. to 12s. 6d., and there has been no
dividend. A levy on wealth would stagger
the B.H.P. and knock out a lot of A.W.U.
men.
Since July 1 the N.S.W. railway revenue
has been falling at the rate of £90.000 per
week as compared with last year. Yet when
a deputation waited on Minister Buttensliaw
to ask for a new railway, in a district where
it is difficult to walk 10 miles without fall-
“Another railway? Certainly, chaps,
certainly!”
ing over a line which is eating up money
like a bush fire devouring banknotes, Butt
greeted it as a long-lost brother, and said
he would rush at the matter immediately.
Some wise old Pharaohs relieved their people
by setting them to build a nice durable debt-
free pyramid, which attracted tourists and
cost nothing for working expenses except
the wages of a night watchman to keep the
flies off it. Our Buttenshaws are a dif-
ferent type.
Dick Toutcher, M.L.A., the chief Vic. advo-
cate of Elective Ministries, is to move that
the question of altering the Constitution to
adopt the system be submitted to the people
by referendum at next general election.
Premier Hogan asked Toutcher whether he
expected to have any luck with his motion,
since it is 13th on the private members’
business paper and is to be debated on
Nov. 13. Richard looked for sympathy to
Glowrey, of the Progs., who predicted
recently that there would be an elective
Cabinet within two years.
It was understood for a few days in West-
ralia that the Prime Minister had practi-
cally promised a bonus of £1 per ounce on
“gold won in excess of the value of last
year’s production.” Then Scullin announced
that it could not be done, as he has no
money; though there is money enough for
Ministerial trips abroad, and things like
speedways. Under clause 91 of the Consti-
tution any State may provide any bonus it
wants on any metal it produces; but it is
no use suggesting a gold bonus to the embar-
rassed Mitchell.
The birth of a daughter to the Yorks puts
two girls in the direct line of succession
to the British crown. The fresh baby may
be described as an outside chance in the
race for the throne, but she is worth backing
at long odds. The first com-
petitor ahead of her is her
uncle, a bachelor of 36, who
may still marry and have
heirs and heiresses. Then
comes her father, aged 35.
who has time to have sons;
in fact, a number of them.
Finally there is her own
sister, who may grow up and
marry and have progeny. . It
is in the newcomer’s favor
that the Royal family doesn’t
multiply as it once did.
George 111. and his brood of
13 look rather out <7l date
now.
The naval college at Jervis
Bay is under offer to the
N.S.W. Government on sale
or lease, as another step to-
wards the breaking up of Can-
berra. But there is little
attraction in renting the place,
as the Bavin-Buttenshaw Min-
istry doesn’t run a boarding-
house, and there is small in-
ducement to buy it unless the
whole 28,000 acres of Federal
Territory goes with it. This
isolated bit of the Federal
Capital is even more of a
nuisance, in its small way,
than the main bit 140 miles
distant. N.S.W. gave up the
scrap of water frontage in full .sovereignty
without payment, and its politicians may
dislike paying to get it back.
The N. S. Wales State election is likely
to be held on Dec. 6, and, unless the Govern-
ment changes its mind again, a referendum
on the Bavinshaw model of a Second Cham-
ber will be taken on the same day. Mean-
while the rank and file of the Country party
are in two minds about the. Bavinshaw elec-
tion agreement. One faction objects (and
rightly) that the thing virtually pre-selects
sitting members, some of whom could be
well spared, and forbids Country-party men
to contest seats precariously held by Nation-
alists; and of 45 delegates voting at the
party conference only 23 were for the pact.
Continuing its campaign 'against “militar-
ism”—its one form of economy—Federal
Labor has issued an order defining the “ser-
viceable life” of articles of clothing and
equipment. Badges of rank and spurs have
to last up to 12 years. A greatcoat’s expec-
tation of life is eight years, and that of a
pair of trousers six years. One concession
is, however, allowed; if a “militarist” can
prove that his garments have ceased to fit
him, he may get a new issue. Thus are
decency and discipline preserved.
It is proposed to increase the Maoriland
note tax to 41 per cent., and the banks are
squealing. They already pay 7s. sd. per
cent, on the notes, 7s. sd. per cent, on the
gold backing and £3 per cent, in note tax;
while cost of printing and administering the
issue is computed at £1 10s. per cent. So
if another £1 10s. is clapped on they will be
liable for £6 14s. lOd. per cent., and they
swear it will make the business unprofitable.
The Scullins profess to be unable to see
where any more savings can be made, but
they still propose to shift the Patents Office
to Canberra. This, according to official esti-
mates, will cost anything up to £BO,OOO.
Since Farrer ceased his experiments on
wheat at the old Campbell homestead no-
thing has been invented at Canberra except
methods of wasting money, so the necessity
for the move from Melbourne is not appa-
rent.
The shearers’ strike in northern N.S.W.
was a case of rotten generalship. Many
waited for instructions from the magnates
of the A.W.U., but the magnates sat on
the fence and looked for holes in the award,
though a hole would have been of small
value unless they could bring the old wool
price back. In the end they reluctantly
admitted their futility, and told the men
who had hung round that they might obey
the law and accept the jobs which were
waiting for them. But a wonderful number
of the jobs had ceased to wait.
Fourpence has been saved on the appro-
priation of £lO,OOO for Vic. Ministers. Evi-
dently the Treasury officers found it difficult
to divide the four coppers equitably between
the eight McPhersons and the eight Hogans.
The change of Ministry took place when the
financial year was five months and 12 days
old. Lemmon and Cain were adjudged to
be worth a penny each more for six months
and 19 days’ work than Tunnecliffe, Slater,
Jones, Bailey and Beckett —(£665 3s. as
against £665 2s. lid. On the other hand,
MePherson’s seven colleagues each got the
same —£538 14s. 2d.
An all-round duty of 10 p.c. on imports,
on top of existing duties, is freely discussed
now in England, even among Laborites. The
Ministry wants another £45,000,000 of tax
revenue to prop up its policy, and people
begin to say that the importer might as
well pay as the British employer, who may
have to pass. it on to the British worker.
An all-round 10 p.c. would help manufac-
THE COMMONWEALTH’S TAIL.
PRIME MINISTER: “I don’t see how he’s going to get on
with ALL his tails docked.”
VISITOR FROM THREADNEEDLE-STREET: “Please yourself;
but it’s one end or the other.”
turns pending the arrival of more scientific
Protection, and the payment of £45,000,000
less direct taxes than the Government pro-
poses would help a great many people. So
far as 1930 has gone exports of British-
made goods have dropped at the rate of
£10.000,000 per month, while unemployment
keeps on the up-grade.
Kite-flying has become a passion with the
N. S. Wales Labor executive. One sent up
last week—it fell foul of telegraph wires or
something—amounted to a demand for the
reappointment of Theodore as Common-
wealth Treasurer on the ground that the
Queensland Government had failed to prose-
cute him over the Mungana business. Premier
Moore replied that proceedings would be
taken, but he would be the judge of the
form and the time; that his party had
waited three years for the royal commission
and wasn’t going to be bustled now to suit
any individual’s convenience; and that it
was open to Theodore in the meantime to
publish the evidence he had failed to give
at the inquiry or commence an action on his
own account, the commission’s report being-
privileged only in Queensland. An odd feature
of the /controversy is the utter silence of
McCormack.
The move for a reduction of railwaymen s
wages interrupted the long-drawn-out hear-
ing of the enginemen’s claim for a new
Federal award. Judge Drake Brockman,
who has been pursuing his researches into
this matter in several States, pensively re-
marked that “the plaint had cost the union
IN 1980.
"The enginemen’s claim for a Federal award has
been advanced another stage.”
a large sum of money” ; the Commonwealth’s
expenditure alone was “about £10,000.” He
adjourned the proceedings for 14 days (they
have been dragging on for something like 14
months) ; meanwhile the union has applied
for a conciliation committee by way of start-
ing all over again. It’s a great system—
at least, it’s like nothing else on earth.
Following the Seddon tradition, Vincent
Ward has succeeded the late Joseph Ward
as member for Invercargill—he was
the old man’s secretary—but his majority
over a Reform opponent was only 492
votes. The strength of parties is: Reform,
28; United, 25; Labor, 20; Independent,
5; Country, 1. The Uniteds are in office,
by permission of Labor.
When Maoriland and Canada were in
search of a capital, outside advice was taken
as a counterpoise to local wirepulling. The
result was something very different from
Canberra, already on its way to the scrap-
heap, which was our own untrammelled
achievement. And when a uniform railway
gauge was wanted for N. S. Wales, Queens-
land and the Northern Territory (then all
one province), also Victoria and South Aus-
tralia, the matter was referred to England
to save fuss and dissension. But the people
at Sydney decided, rather late, on an inde-
pendent attitude, and tore up the agree-
ment arrived at in this fashion, wherefore
the States went their various discordant
ways, and are discordant and various to
this day.
The question whether Melb. Hospital
should be rebuilt on another site or extended
on the present one has ended in stalemate.
Vic. Charities Board has now decided against
paying subsidies for any more country
patients unless it can be proved that there
are no vacant hospital beds in their neigh-
borhoods. At present the city sufferer is apt
to find himself crowded out by a patient
from the interior who could be treated at
Ballarat or Bendigo.
Communistic imperialism is busier than
ever in Asia. Armies calling themselves
Communist have been destroying peaceful
cities in China, hanging landowners, and
impelling girls to throw themselves' down
wells. Parts of Mongolia have. been induced
to form themselves into Soviet republics,
and the whole province is now under Soviet
influence. At the same time the Soviet is
practically monopolising the Manchurian
railway. But an attempt to establish a
dictatorship of the proletariat in Tibet was
a failure. The inhabitants did not under-
stand the meaning of the words and local
dictionaries were no help.
The British Lib-
eral party, born in
1828, is expected
by many to die at
or before next elec-
tion. Its unlucky
effort in 1929 (it
got in 59 members
out of 615) left
the party fund a
ghost of its pros-
perous self; and it
is reckoned that
there is only
enough money left
to contest 100
seats. Liberals
reveal a tendency
to drop away and
join one or other
of the live parties,
and to leave the
comatose crowd to
its fate —especially
On his last legs.
young Liberals
who think they have a future.
Maoriland’s financial programme isn’t lack-
ing in incident. The tariff is to be increased
in a multitude of ways, income tax is to
rise 10 per cent., and there are to be addi-
tions to amusement tax, totalisator tax, and
most other taxes that the Treasurer can
think of. Military training is to be sus-
pended, and economies will be tried on the
railways, which show signs of going to the
wild animals. Maoriland has never tolerated
advocates of debt repudiation, or revolu-
tionaries who take instructions from Moscow.
As a result it pays about £4 Bs. per cent,
interest all round while Australia pays £5
per cent. Yet the Commonwealth and the
Dominion both assumed that the external
loan was a regular part of their income, and
that it was somebody’s business to provide
it when asked for, in Wet Weather or dry.
Westralia has a voluntary wheat pool
directed by the leaders of the P.P.A. At
the annual conference of this body the
Kondut branch wanted to know why farmers
had received from the pool only 3s. 6d. a
bushel at siding—a trifle more is expected—
whereas “the lowest price offered by mer-
chants was 3s. 9-id. and the highest 4s. lOd.”
The reply was that “the world-wide collapse
in wheat values could not be foreseen.”
So far were merchants from foreseeing it,
the pool trustees added, that they advanced
“3s. 9d. a bushel in Westralia and con-
siderably more in the Eastern States” ; but,
anyway, heaps of farmers benefited, and the
taxpayers don’t suffer. It seems a crazy
notion to outlaw this method of selling for
ready money and set up a compulsory
Federal pool with a huge improvised staff,
the Commonwealth Bank to find 4s. a bushel
(the Lord knows how) and the taxpayers to
bear the loss —if they can. Nevertheless the
N.S.W. Farmers and Settlers have sent up
a passionate demand for Moloney’s pool.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Lex”: A. B. Shand, K.C., who retired
last week, had the supreme virtue as a
cross-examiner of knowing when to shut up.
A Sydney capitalist tells this one against
himself to prove it. Mr. Brown (to give
him a fictitious name) was the chief witness
in a row over the value of a city property.
He claimed that it was worth £50,000;
Shand’s clients said £40,000, or less. “I
won’t ask you to explain how you arrive
at the £50,000 estimate,” said the counsel
who was putting Mr. Brown into the box.
“It will be better to let Shand get that
out of you in cross-examination.” Mr.
Brown was bursting with facts and figures
STICKING TO HIS DOG.
“If your dawg isn’t a squib, why does he always run inside your front gate and bark
when another dawg looks at him?”
“’Cos he wants to show the other dawg what a good watchdawg he is, that’s why!”
when his brief examination-in-chief ended,
but to his horror Shand said he had no ques-
tions to ask. To make it worse he told
the jury later that a Mr. Brown had come
into the box, said the property was worth
£50,000, given no facts, figures or reasons,
yet expected them to accept him as an autho-
rity. He asked them to dismiss the evidence
of this irresponsible character from their
minds. “And I could have proved I was
a property expert if he’d only given me the
chance,” Brown explained sadly in conclu-
sion.
❖ ❖ * ❖
“S.T.S.” : The aeroplane-wedding stunt got
a jar in Adelaide when high legal opinion
declared it outside the law, as not being in
a building with doors open—the old require-
ment to check secret marriages. The obvious
counter-argument was that an air-wedding is
the very reverse of secret; but nobody wanted
to take a risk, so the legal ceremony was
gone through at the bride’s home and then
the whole party, with parson and four
bridesmaids, took to the air.
“Avon”: “Trial by newspaper,” a pi'o-
cess which originated in the U.S.A. and
is familiar in Australian cities, has be-
come acclimatised to a slight
extent in M.L. It was the sub-
ject of an exordium from the
Bench lately by Myers, C.J. He
told a grand jury that “it is an
underlying principle of our sys-
tem that the trial of an accused
person should be conducted in
the court, and only in the
court, and that the ver-
dict should depend upon the
evidence then and there adduced,
and only on that evidence.” He
went on to say that British tra-
ditions of justice had been
created not only by Bench and
Bar but by “a free and indepen-
dent press,” which was fearless
in criticising the administration
of justice if occasion arose. News-
papers, however, could not effec-
tively criticise the administration
of justice if they themselves dis-
regarded the principles of fair-
ness on which that system was
based. Newspapers could be
punished if they went too far, but
such punishment would not undo
the injustice that might be in-
flicted on an accused person.
’Sonah spoke wisely. Too many
Australian Judges and justices
ignore the evil complained of, saying that
they don’t read the newspapers.
* * $ *
“Gallows Hill” : It was a cold day when
Billy Hughes couldn’t do something for one
of his old constituents of the Rocks. I
remember one of them who was up at the
Water Police Court charged with a few of
those things that any gentleman of the
Rocks was liable to be charged with. Billy
was begged to come along as a witness regard-
ing character. Magistrate: “Mr. Hughes,
will you tell the Court what you know about
this man?” William: “Yes, your Worship.
I know him to be a sober, honest, hard-
working man.” Inspector Potter looked sur-
prised. Magistrate: “Do you really mean
what you say, Mr. Hughes?” William: “Yes,
of course I do.” Magistrate to police officer:
“Read out the list of convictions against this
man.” When the officer had read out more
than a dozen convictions, the magistrate said:
“What have you got to say now, Mr.
Hughes? What have got to say about it
now?” Billy wasn’t a bit perturbed. “Well,”
he said, “all I have to say is you can live
alongside a man and not know his character.”
As a matter of fact, he did not live within
miles of the accused ; but, then, as he would
certainly have told the S.M. had he been
asked, “I never said I did, did I?”
“Noah”: The old shellback’s superstition
that a ship which changes her name there-
after carries a hoodoo has been strangely
exemplified in the case of the Tahiti. Built
for the British-West Indian trade she began
as the Port Kingston, being rechristened
when the Union Co. took her over. As a
transport she had two narrow escapes from
submarines, and after her return to the
mercantile marine caught fire after leaving
Wellington (M.L.) for ’Frisco, but managed
to get back in safety. Then came the
PLEASE DON’T SPEAK OF IT.
“Her past, of course, is unmentionable.”
“Yes—that’s what they’re all talking about!”
crowning tragedy of the Greycliffe collision
in Sydney Harbor with its death roll of 40i.
Nothing further happened until the ship hit
a reef in Papeete last year. Then, after an
interruption of 12 months, the fates struck
again, and the Tahiti lies at the bottom of
the Pacific.
* * * *
“Spud”: A doctor friend of mine has hit
on a new way of collecting fees or their
equivalent. lie has been practising in the
new Mallee (Vic.) for the past four years,
and a succession of bad seasons has left most
of his patients in debt to him. Tired of
dunning them, the doc. applied for an aban-
doned holding of 1200 acres, available on a
three years’ lease, and secured it. He next
approached various cockies and suggested
they put in a certain amount of crop for
him in settlement of their accounts. Most of
them readily agreed, and now my medical
friend has 500 acres of wheat. I expect to
hear of him harvesting his crop under the
same conditions.
* * * „
“Kelpie” : The latest dog story comes from
Queensland. During the recent sheep-dog
trials at Brisbane Show one competitor was
issued with two quiet sheep and one very
refractory specimen. Finding this last quite
impossible as a subject, the intelligent hound
separated him from the others _ and drove
him back to the pen from which lie was
that
sidered lnmselt entitled to a spare pair tnai
it was panted him and with his
factor onnolnsLf y
conclusion. # *
. t woo o niini mi fhc Tndian
north-west frontier some years ago, id my
«cpertenee» mttfce me. l-MjW her the
AfHrlici < R 20/&/''to) have done
agaistteA ( ~ / ° w hat between
much damage fmToot
l0 J« i’s a Moliam-
medan of sorts—is a formidable guerilla
fiebtor Hundreds of him reciuire less com-
SdssariatßSn BrS oflndian
infantrymen. In his impregnable mountain
fastnesses he scrambles about from rock to
rock, as invisible as a chameleon on a leafy
bough, while the troops of the Raj lumber
on up the gorges with camels, mountain guns,
tents and packs. He has little or no fear of
the white man’s equipment, and I can
certify that if he ever had any respect for
the aeroplane he soon lost it. When lie is
tired of fighting lie makes peace with the
political officer—and keeps it just as long as
it suits him.
* * * *
“Hops and Scotch”: Australia isn’t the
only country where a periodical protest is
heard against allegedly indecent bathing cos-
tumes; even fashionable Deauville, in France,
has been doing some censoring. I was there in
1925, and noticed a beauteous blonde wearing
a stop-and-look confection, on the breast of
which were neatly blazoned a series of
numerals. I asked a French friend the
reason for the figures. He seemed amused at
my ignorance. “But, my friend, that is her
telenhone number!”
I ** * *
“Styx”: One of the first people to cross
over the arch of the Sydney Harbor Bridge
was a bright youth who did it under the
spur of compulsion and with no publicity
whatever. Out of work, lie found himself
cut off from his home across the harbor at
nightfall with empty pockets, and decided
to walk to the other side. Dodging
watchmen and police, he took off his
boots and after a long climb found
himself on top of the arch. But there
was still a wide gap, so he had to go back
and begin all over again on the lower
girders, which were nearly joined. The job
took him over three hours, but it was accom-
plished successfully.
* * * *
“The Office Curate”: Things haven’t
changed much from the days when the first
Nehemiah was sent on a financial mission.
There had been over-borrowing in those days,
too, and you’ll read in the fifth chapter of
the financier’s report, “there was a great cry
of the people, and of their wives, against
their brethren the Jews.” They put it to
Niemeyer that they had borrowed to buy
seed wheat for farmers and to do a sand-
shifting job at Mar Oubrah and had got
into debt to the time-payment people and had
even raised loans to pay taxes—“we have
borrowed money for the King’s tribute, and
that upon our lands and vineyards,” they
told him—-and now there was a drought and
the bottom had fallen out of their markets;
“and 10, we bring into bondage our sons and
daughters to be servants,” and they couldn’t
see a way out of the trouble. Niemeyer I.
seems, however, not to have been brought
u p j n a bank. Anyway, he sided with the
borrowers right off, and rounded up the
“nobles and the rulers,” who had made the
loans, and gave his decision this way: “I
pray you, let us leave off this usury. Restore
t 0 them, even this day, their lands, their
vineyards, their olive-yards and their houses,
(l j so hundredth part of their money, and
0 f the corn, the wine and the oil, that ye
exact of them.” And they did. One l>er cent.
certainly isn’t much; still if the “nobles and
ru i crs ” G f London and New York follow pre-
co(3ent, we s h a n have £4,000,000 to play
w ith; and every little helps. (P.S.: Another
precedent. Niemeyer didn’t charge any-
tlling f Ol . doing the job. See Chap, v, 14-19.)
' * *
xt n” • A "m-nken tnilslmft sent the
Tahttfto the bottom I can recall a similar
w rbo
s TfofSs SA& In
1905 the Osiris was one of the two inter-
mediate P. and O.’s that carried mails be-
tween Brindisi and Port Said, connecting
Into Anjttjll™ Unerase
fifcorfm but two St her com-
lament, diving under the stern without
diving suits, accomplished the almost super-
human task of inserting a wooden plug in
the hole. A heavy weight suspended under
the ship’s counter was then used as a sort
of pendulum-ram and drove the plug home.
time C “ -ed *
» leat sensation at the time. #
' ~ , ' , , ~
, Eureka’ : Don’t know about sudden
shock turning the hair grey, but I am satis-
hed that anaesthetics have that effect. I
have had 17 so I should know something
about it. Before the first one I hadnt a
grey hair m my head. Now I have no others,
During long spells in hospitals I have taken
notice of other patients, too, and they were
going the same way.
*** . *
“Hamer” : A name recalling a grim tragedy
of the war years came before the Workers’
Compensation Commission the other day.
The deceased, formerly an actor, was. one of
the first to enlist in the war; invalided home
early, he found the woman to whom he had
made his allotment, and who had been the
cause of his separation from his wife and
family, living with another man. He killed
her, and was duly convicted and sentenced
to death; the commutation of his death sen-
tence was the last his old-time acquaintances
heard of him. Hopeless and dispirited, he
came out of Goulburn Gaol after serving
10 years and began a hand-to-mouth exist-
ence, doing all sorts of odd jobs until a
fall whilst painting in a city hotel broke his
neck. There was evidence that he had never
had a fixed address since he came out of
prison; he paid for a cheap bed in a city
residential when he had the money. On tiie
strength of occasional payments ot small
amounts to his wife a claim was put in tor
compensation. The Commission, however,
found that the necessary dependence had not
been proved.
CUT OFF.
[FOR TIIB BULLETIN.]
Where are the Premiers, bold to borrow
All that offered and blithe to spend,
With never a thought for a bleak to-morrow
Or a glimmer that all good times must end?
Most of ’em gone, I apprehend,
Into a far serener sphere
Where never an lOU is penned.
And where are tne loans of yester-year?
Where are the public works they scattered
In many and many a favored spot,
When railway lines, were the things that
mattered
Upon the hustings where votes were got?
Standing as monuments, quite a lot,
To faith abounding and vision clear,
But, while some pay interest, more do not.
And where are the loans of yester-year?
Where are the Treasurers sans disquiet
While there was money about to fling,
Ever ready to razzle and riot
And leave successors the reckoning?
What of the tales they were wont to sling
That in mounting debts there was naught
to fear?
Ah, me ! ’Tis a bitter wakening.
And where are the loans of yester-year?
Where is the old-time tanner tid?
The counter-luncheon? The summer beer
With the pre-war kick? And the minted
quid ?
And where are the loans of yester-year?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Roundsman”: At the August sittings of
the Melbourne Criminal Court seven men
were sentenced for house-breaking; at the
Geelong sessions a week later five more were
similarly dealt with. Only one of the dozen
was over 20. Detectives attribute the alarm-
ing increase in youthful criminals to the
“pat-on-the-head, be-a-good-boy” methods of
the Children’s Courts. Another complaint
which can hardly be dismissed lightly is
that the police are not allowed to inform the
presiding Judge of prior convictions in Chil-
dren’s .Courts. The result is that many a
youthful malefactor, not yet out of his ’teens
but with half a dozen “priors” to his
record, goes through the Criminal Court as
a “cleanskin,” and gets the benefit of the
First Offenders Act.
* * * *
“Syama”: An entry in the register at
Bathurst (N.S.W.) Courthouse discloses the
strange story of a child who was officially
registered dead in April, 1856, and pre-
sumably remained so in the eye of the law
throughout a long lifetime. Mary Gibbons
was aged five when her parents left her, with
her brother and sisters, .in charge of an
uncle while they went off to town, 38 miles
distant. Mary promptly fell into a water-
hole, remaining at the bottom for some
minutes. A neighbor who saw her appa-
rently lifeless body dragged out hastened
to Bathurst with the sad news, and the
parents decided to save another, journey by
notifying the registrar right away. Next day
a constable, who was sent out to arrange
details for the inquest, found Mary playing
in the stockyard. Somebody evidently knew
all about artificial respiration, even in those
days, and Mary lived to be 70, though the
entry was never excised.
* * * *
“Harar”: The Duke of Gloucester, who is
to attend the coronation of the Emperor
of Abyssinia, is breaking new ground for
a British royalty. The earliest European
potentate to penetrate into those parts seems
to have been Frumentius in a.d. 322, he
being commissioned as bishop by St.
Athanasius of Alexandria. The Portuguese
sent an ambassador and missions in the
fifteenth century, and after these had been
ejected, Abyssinia was cut off from outside
until Bruce gained for himself the reputation
of a monumental liar by visiting the coun-
try in 1783. Nowadays, though its inhabi-
tants are a worthless lot of ruffians and
slave-dealers, the ancient kingdom is about
the last Naboth’s vineyard remaining, and as
it controls the head waters of the Nile
several nations covet it exceedingly.
ALWAYS SOME CATCH IN IT.
“How do you get on with your new employer?”
“Fairly well. But he will talk business in office hours."
“Riwaka”: What looks like a new develop-
ment in fraud has turned up in Melbourne,
An enterprising person rented a cubby-hole
from the tenant of an office suite and hung
out his shingle as an architect. Shortly
afterwards he paid a very small deposit on
a suburban building block. His next move
was to prepare plans and specifications for
a fine dwelling to be erected thereon and
advertise tenders for building, each tender
to be accompanied by a deposit of £25.
Building in Melbourne suburbs being at the
lowest ebb for years, he was rushed with
offers. His next move was through the office
door with the deposits, and that was the
last seen of either.
* * * *
“Buttinski”: “Feng-Shui” (B. 13/8/’3O)
rather confuses the act of the proletarian in
disembowelling himself,v with the sepmiki
fliara-kiri) of the nobles of Japan. This
method of leaving the earth is adopted some-
times for personal reasons, but generally
when there is no other alternative than to
die following the committal (of a crime
against the order. It is a form of execu-
tion preserves the honor of the noble
concerned. In the lower grades disembowel-
ment seldom takes place, as an assistant
equipped with a sword, strikes off the head
0 f the principal as the latter reaches for the
knife £ dirk lying on a stoo l before him.
While this is quite in order the punctilious
prefer the sword wielder to stay his hand
until at i east the first incision is made, though
he ma >’ do so ri * ht until th ® last u P ward cat
and twist ° f the knife - After th ? deCap \'
tation, the assistant, carrying his sword
reversed, lifts the head with his right hand,
carries it over to a witness, .and, kneeling
an the knee ’ ex ndlts the ?v* gk , .•
tlin severed head resting on the hilt ot his
sword. A strict code governs the procedure,
and in the event of a principal being tardy,
n le assistant is required to use his initia-
tive and his sword. It is of great impor-
tanCe that the assistant should be competent,
and j] l the higher circles his closest rienc is
usually selected by the hara-kmst.
#
, „ u .tj„i mnowa
Eex : In the Palni Island case
Hoffman gave the lie to the fam .3 ‘
pronouncement, A man does not impiove
his reputation by being tried for mine ei,
whatever the verdict may be. To quote the
Crown 1 rosecutor :
Curry visited the home of Dr. and Matron Pattison
and sho j; Pattison through the abdomen an e
T bS
and son . and later set flre to Hoffman’s house,
g 0 H'offman had him shot. Morally he was
j n ti ie same position as a general who ordered
his men to lay out the invading Germans in
if h e k ept his hands free of
blood he would have brought shame on him-
se]f an( j ru i n 0 n the community ;by becoming
particeps criminis to a murder he did society
a go0( j turn. D.S.O.’s have been given for
i oss _
* * * *
“P.X.” : On the way from Sydney to Manly
you pass the little village of Balgowlah;
an d that’s where Sydney’s Harbor Bridge
was born. Arthur Griffith, in those days one
0 f the members for Broken H'ill, lived there;
it was a long way round via Manly on a
late sitting night, and in those times there
was no tramline from the Spit. Looking
from the high lands of Dobroyd across to
Sydney, Griffith envied the crow, and resolved
tliat some day, if he couldn’t provide the
people with wings, he might at least help
them to get a bridge, over which trains, etc.,
could carry passengers to the beautiful nor-
them reaches of the harbor. The change
came his way in 1911 when McGowen made
him Minister for Works: at the first oppor-
tunity he sent to the Works Committee a
proposal for a bridge, and, though the war
hung up his scheme, his action led steadily
on to the letting of the job in March, 1924.
* * * *
“C.A.8.”: A legal point that may pre-
gently give some trouble cropped up in the
N.S.W. Divorce Court the other day. The
petitioner was a resident of Canberra, and
after the jury had returned the curious but
strictly legal finding that the respondent
was guilty of misconduct with the co-re.,
although it was not proved that the latter was
guilty of misconduct with the respondent, the
question of domicile arose. Justice Owen
ruled that a person who had removed to Can-
berra from one of the States without the
intention of permanently residing there did
not lose his State domicile. Ninety per
cent, of the public servants will tell you
they are in Canberra only until they can
get a transfer out of it or reach the retiring
age. Therefore quite half of Canberra’s resi-
dents _ retain their State domicile if the
Judge’s ruling is a sound one.
* * * *
“Finn”: There’s a Melbourne K.C. who
has a soft spot in his heart for spiders. In
his youth he taught a little country school
under the “result system.” The amount of
his salary, depended on the number of “stan-
dard certificates” gained by his pupils at
the annual exam. The inspector—-known as
“Old 301”—always gave as a final certificate
test a difficult sum in square measure. On
the exam, day the young teacher felt con-
fide'nt. His four certif. candidates, Avell
drilled on 301, faced the final hurdle: “Re-
duee 2,000,000, sq. in. to roods.” Jack, .the
star pupil in the front row, set gaily to
work. But, chancing to look up, he saw two
huge triantelopes come out from a crack in
the wall, take the floor, and solemnly pro-
ceed to settle an affair of honor. H'e looked
again and was lost. He could do the old
30J trick any time, but he might never again
have the opportunity of watching a duel of
triantelopes. He scribbled down a few
figures at random, wrote “roods,” ruled a
line, and sat back to watch the fight. Sharp-
eyed Ben, two rows away, coolly copied
Jack’s figures, and laid down his pen. “Oh,
they must be wrong I” thought Lena, Jack's
sister. “They’re finished. They can’t have
A MIXED GRILL.
“You’ll just have to chance this, darling. I began with chops garni, but turned two
pages of the cookery book, and the last half is chicken saute.”
divided by 301!” Panic overcame her. Tables
ran riot through her brain. She finished
her computations on the formula that nine
sq. ft. make a rood, and laid down her pen.
“Haven’t you finished yet?’’ the. inspector,
who had been having a two-minute doze,
snapped at slow, accurate Rose, who was still
wrestling with a maze of fractions. “The
others are done long ago; we can’t wait
any longer for you.” Result, no certificates
and a reduced salary for the teacher. He
resigned in disgust, studied law and acquired
an enormous practice. And all, as he says,
because of the eternal triangle among tri-
antelopes !
# # H! *
“C.0.E.”: The Lambeth Conference, the
latest session of which has fluttered the
world by its open-mindedness, had its genesis
in a less easy-going age. Its father, in a
way, was Dr. John Colenso, Bishop of Natal,
a pioneer among
higher critics who
shocked his co-reli-
gionists in 1863 by
publishing a critical
examination of the
Pentateuch in which
the Mosaic authorship
was denied. African
bishops met in con-
clave and summoned
Colenso to appear be-
fore them to answer
charges of heresy.
Colenso refused, so
they deposed him. At
least they thought
they had, but the
Privy Council, to which
Colenso appealed,
ruled that the finding
was unconstitutional,
and restored the de-
posed one to his see.
The Anglican commu-
nity, still much exer-
cised, made represen-
tations to the Arch-
bishop of Canterbury,
Dr. Longley, and he
summoned a confer-
ence of bishops at his
Lambeth palace in
1867 to deal with the
matter. Only 67
bishops out of 187
attended, and, apart
from a resolution ex-
pressing regret at the
“present condition of
the Church in Natal,'’
nothing' was done. It
was Archbishop Tait
wlio, 10 years later, conceived the idea of
having periodical conferences at Lambeth
to consider the needs of the Church as a
whole.
j! . # jfc *
“Dr. Nil”: Touching Turkish baths CB.
20/8/’3O). I used to frequent one when I
was a student in Aberdeen. The “sham-
poOer,” a fine specimen of the “braw hielan’
man” type, had been ten years at the job,
and I once asked him whether it made him
very thin. His answer was something like
the following: “Dae ye see yon whale o’ a
man in the far corner? Weel, he’s been
coming here every week for twa years tae
get thin. An’ dae ye see that sliarder o’ a
chap in the ither corner? He’s been coming
for four years tae try and get fat. An’, it
makes nae deeference tae either o’ them.”
* * * *
“Der Yong” : As to enemy names in war
time (B. 20/8/’3O). No one seems to have
mentioned that the mere possession of a
suspicious name or accent is often fatal
to a belligerent. When the advance guard
of Plumor’s column was overwhelmed at
Onverwacht in the Eastern Transvaal by
a Boer counter-attack, one of the captured
was a big Queenslander who bore a German-
Dutch name, and, though he had been born
and bred in Australia, spoke with a strong
Deutscher accent. An exchange of remarks
with his Boer captors, who were in a hurry
to get the business through before the rein-
forcements came up, led to his being shot
dead on the spot. They took him for one of
the many of their own people who had gone
over to the British as guides. I was lying
helpless a dozen yards away and saw the
whole of tlie summary proceeding.
“T.P.”: The doubling of postal rates for
books, magazines, etc., is a serious matter
for the society which has for years supplied
reading matter for men and women in the
far Outback. For years past honorary work-
ers, with very scanty funds at their disposal,
have regularly prepared and posted parcels,
the arrival of which made the only bright
spot in many lives. The new rates will
paralyse this fine bit of social service. An
appeal for special consideration has so far
brought no' reply.
* * * *
“Old-timer” : A member of Sydney’s ancient
Hill family has given the Mitchell Library
a picture of a typical picnic of 60 years
ago, when picnics were very much “the
thing.” It shows the ladies in bustles and
the males in frock coats at Clark Island.
But the most historic picnic resort in the
State has unfortunately never been painted.
This was “The Hut 7 ’ on Wentworth’s
Vaucluse estate. Here every Sunday Fitz-
william Wentworth —son of William —-enter-
tained the leading eaters and drinkers of
the Union Club with bronzewing turkey from
his million-acre station, Burrabogie, and
vintage champagne; and the party was
usually reinforced by eminent visitors from
overseas. Mark Twain and Lord Rosebery
were amongst those who lunched sump-
tuously in the shed on the little beach facing
Bottle and Glass Island.
* * # *
“Fernie” : Australian brewers got a free
advertisement from a prohibitionist M.L.
member of Parliament, Jimmy McCombs,
the other day when taxation proposals were
being considered. Jimmy, who represents
Lyttelton, a port with a pub on every corner,
said that, although the Dominion excise duty
on beer was only a shilling a gallon, the
beverage cost just as much over the bar as
it did in Australia, where the duty was
Is. lOd. Priminister Forbes, who was born
and bred in Lyttelton, smiled reminiscently
and said he wasn’t in favor of any more
taxation on the working man’s solace —the
latest proposals provide for an increase from
Hid. to Is. per gallon. In the Shivery Isles
they brew remarkably strong ales, but the
jpnly variety is that provided by slight
divergences in brewers’ recipes. The bitters,
lagers, bocks and pilseners of the Australian
market are unknown. So is the pint. What
a Maorilander calls a pint is the 14oz.
handled mug. The Shivery Isles favor a beer
after the English fashion —heavy and full-
flavored —whereas Australian hop-coneocters
specialise in lightness and sparkle. It is a
matter of climate more than anything else,
but there is a steadily increasing market in
the Dominion for the Australian brews, parti-
cularly lager.
* * * *
“S.T.S.” : Adelaide turns from praying for
rain to the old problem of shunting off sur-
plus water. A lot comes down the Torrens
at times, but the quaint river has literally
no mouth, so the water just piles up behind
the sandhills of Henley and Grange, to drain
slowly away itorth to the Port River and
southward to a creek at Glenelg. Any
heavy rain puts the road from the city to
Henley under water. * The local authorities
got as far in 1924 as a plan to cut a
direct mouth through to the beach, but the
requisite £320,000 seemed unattainable then
and is out of sight now. Anyhow, there is
no guarantee against such a channel silting
up within a year, or being knocked endways
by storm within a night. So the flooding
goes on and, judging from the steady deposit
of silt, gets worse.
* * *
“Gad”: There are more Langs in Germany
(B. 13/S/’3O) than ever came out of Scot-
land. The little village of Ober Ammergau,
in Bavaria, scene of the decennial Passion
Play, could muster a good many. Two of
them, Anton and Alois, have some claim to
international fame.
THE POSTMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The postman did not call to-day
With any news from far away.
“No news is good news,” so they say.
The postman did not call. To-day
The children in the garden play;
The sun is out; the flowers are gay;
There are no bills for me to pay.
I should be glad, for, come what may,
The .postman did not call to-day. .
And yet one fear I cannot stay;
One doubt no silence can allay.
What is the answer —“Yea” or “Nay”?
The sun is hid : the clouds are grey;
The postman did not call to-day.
S.A.
CHARLES HENRY SOUTER.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Fishery Possibilities
Vigorous criticism of the M.L. Fisheries
Department has been provoked by a recent
proposal to place restrictions on the netting
of whitebait. The department says that
since canning commenced a few years ago
the whitebait supply is diminishing. The
canners say it isn’t and that the deity who
watches over fishes specially protects white-
bait by sending rough weather every few
seasons, rendering it impossible to catch the
tiny fish, which then breed undisturbed.
Carrying the war into the enemy’s camp,
the canners twit the department with having
concentrated most of its energies for 30
years and more on a quite futile endeavor
to acclimatise salmon, which, they say,
never will be available in M.L. as a com-
mercial source of food-supply.
The criticism is not without foundation.
From the ’seventies onwards the department
ha,s imported at various times millions upon
millions of Atlantic and quinnat salmon ova,
erected expensive hatcheries, engaged ex-
perts to travel with consignments, and
done everything humanly possible to make
the salmon feel at home, but with so little
success that the latest departmental report
on the subject announces with an air of
triumph that 1000 Atlantic salmon—indi-
vidual fish, not tons—were hooked last
season. The run of quinnats was smaller
than in the preceding season, and the num-
ber caught is not given. On the other hand,
whitebait figure handsomely in Maoriland’s
annual exportation of about £BO,OOO worth
of fish, and the theory that these little
creatures can be killed off by the netters
need not be regarded seriously.
What surprises most outsiders is that Aus-
tralia and M.L., whose seas teem with edible
fish, should not only neglect the sources
of fish supplies at their very doors, but
should spend so much money on importa-
tions. This table shows the State of the
fish trade in Australasia on a per capita
basis:—
Australia. M.L.
s. d. s. d.
Consumed .. . . 5 2 6 6
Caught . . .. 4 0 4 11
Exported . . . . 1 11
Imported . . . . 13 2 8
Maoriland’s bigger figures for catch, con-
sumption and export are attributable, of
course, to a longer coastline in relation to
population and area than Australia can
boast, and to the shortness of transport
lines; but as various learned committees
which have studied Empire food supplies
have indicated, there is a lot of room for
improvement in both instances. In both
countries, and more particularly in Aus-
tralia, marketing methods are archaic and
chaotic, and the retail price of fish in the
cities is so many times greater than that
paid to fishermen that consumption is dis-
couraged.
The £400,000 spent by Australia and the
£200,000 spent by M.L. on imported fish
annually are not relatively very big items
in the bill for overseas food; but is there
any necessity why countries such as these,
which must reduce their overseas expendi-
ture, should import any food whatever?
The Burden of the Middleman.
Two things will have to be altered before
the fruitgrower can hope to make a decent
living: the cost of distribution will have to
be brought down, and that prodigious army
of middlemen, which is out of all proportion
to the needs of either producer or consumer,
will have to be reduced. And these two things
are to a great extent the same thing.
This season N. S. Wales has had a great
crop of oranges—not, on the whole, very
good oranges to look at, but of good eating
quality. At a hundred stalls run by the
actual producers alongside their orchards it
has been possible to buy any number from
106 to 18 for a shilling. Fruit such as has
been sold at Is. a dozen in Sydney and 2d.
fo 3d. each in Melbourne can be had along-
side the orchards at “40 a bob.”
Some of the more enterprising growers de-
cided to try the Maoriland market, while the
Murrumbidgee irrigation area co-operators
went further afield to Canada. How the
latter have fared The Bulletin doesn’t
yet know; but results of some of the Maori-
land shipments are available.
One grower, whose fruit this year was of
particularly fine quality, tried the Maoriland
market with 78 cases of oranges and 128
cases of lemons. There were three lots,
and they panned out as follows :
Realised. Outgoings.
No. 1 ..£57 16 2 £4O 1 6 Profit £l7 14 8
No. 2 .. 29 8 0 32 7 8 Loss 219 8
No. 3 .. 29 19 9 30 15 6 Loss 15 9
£ll7 3 11 £lO3 4 8 Profit £l3 19 3
So the grower got £l3 19s. 3d. for his 206
cases of fruit, an average of about Is. 4d.
per case. Of the three consignments only
one showed any profit, and the charges for
the 100 cases in it were:—
Rail freight, charges and fumigating .. £2 14 2
Cases . . .. . . ’ . . .. 516 8
Wiring .. .. .. .. .. 100
Commission .. .. .. .. 5 14 4
Ocean freight . . .. .. . , 13 16 4
Duty and primage.. .. .. .. 4 2 2
Cartage and wharfage .. .. .. 1 13 6
Cable . . . . . . .. .. 4 1
Receiving and delivering.. .. .. 8 3
Customs entry . . . . .. .. 2 0
Picking and packing wages .. .. 4 10 0
Total £4O 1 6
Out of his Is. 4d. the grower had to pay
for cultivation, spraying and rates. Obvi-
ously there is no money in an export trade
under these conditions; and the only thing
seems to be to cultivate a home trade,
though anything like reasonable success even
here will depend upon a reduction in
charges. Much of what the consumer now
pays for delivery and distribution—includ-
ing the rents of hundreds of unnecessary
shops—must reach the producer.
The Golden Goblin.
Inspection of the Golden Casket balance-
sheet submitted to the Queensland Parlia*
ment reveals why the Country-Nats. have
swallowed lock, stock and barrel (to use
the phrase of Opposition-leader Forgan
Smith) the lottery they denounced for years.
Dividend in 1929-30 was at the rate of 233
per cent., the £114,564 invested to run the show
returning a profit of £267,697 net. _ Ticket
sales realised £918,750, which, with interest
and postage received, gave an income of
£942,262. Prize money took £560,000. The
beautiful part of the business from the Gov-
ernment’s point of view is that it parts
with not a stiver until all the cash is in.
After the first half-dozen lotteries the
Labor Government took charge, and, in the
10 years since July, 1920, £2,123,422 has
been distributed from 265 Hos-
pitals have taken the biggest cut, £1,750,839;
and £314,206 has been granted for the erec-
tion and equipment of baby clinics, mater-
nity wards and nurses’ quarters. Bush
nursing (£6716), crSche and kindergarten
(£5328), the cancer campaign (£5000), the
T. soldiers’ housing scheme (£1500) and
unnamed charitable institutions have bene-
fited from the willingness of the community
to take a chance with ss. 3d.
The lottery has become an established
institution; before long its abolition will
be a question for nothing short of a referen-
dum. It seems to have reached a norm of
35 drawings a year, the number in 1928-29
and 1929-30. There were 18 in 1920-21.
With art-union amending legislation restrict-
ing this form of Bananaland sport, and,
incidehtally, outlawing lotteries for political
purposes, there should be more business for
the Government’s own gamble.
The stock advt. of the art union speaks
of there being a tide in the affairs of men.
Certainly, whatever the moral effect, the
Casket is tiding a harassed Government over
a few uncomfortable shallows.
Taxation from Earnings Abroad.
It costs a bit to run a banking account in
more than one country these days. The Com-
monwealth is “fully reciprocating” with the
U. which means that the absentee has
to pay only in the land of higher taxation.
But rebates are hard to collect, specially
under Australia’s Income Tax Act, which
Justice Rich of the High Court described
in Jane Hall v. Commissioner of Taxation
as “a thing of shreds and patches—a kind
of statutory Joseph’s coat.” An absentee is
lucky to get anything out of Australia by
way of rebate inside a couple of years at
any rate. And there is no reciprocity
between the Australian States and the t'.K.
Until a few weeks ago incomes from
oversea's investments were not taxed in
Australia if they were left abroad. In pro-
portion as the State shoved up wages and
shortened hours, Australian capitalists
poured their money into Britain and The
U.S.A. Now all such incomes are to be
taxed in Australia, after the amount paid
in foreign taxation has been deducted. This
applies also to money earned abroad. An
Australian writer, say, earns £4OO from a
London-published book. The British Treasury
collects £BO at source ( i.e ., from the pub-
lisher) and the £320 is added to the writer’s
Australian income for taxation purposes.
“Taxes Nobody Understands”
Dear Bulletin, —I have gone through the
annual nightmare of filling up my income-
tax form, and kn'ow why, as you have put
it (B. 13/8/’3O), “not one citizen in a hun-
dred can tell what amount he Will have to
pay, even allowing that not a single figure
of his will be challenged.” And from
my experience there must be officials
in the Taxation Department who don’t
know, either. Not that I am' com-
plaining about their assessments. It is
like this. Last year I paid a few pounds.
This year, when I expected a staggerer, I
was assessed at not many shillings. Maybe
they will reclaim next time what they might
have missed this time—that is, of course, if
they have really missed anything. I only
know that I gave them the correct sum I
had earned. Whatever they charge me next
year I shan’t have the vaguest idea whether
they have under-assessed or over-assessed
me.
In Victoria a regulation has been gazetted.
.Commissioner Chynoweth puts it that all
Government servants shall give free advice
to citizens in filling up returns. But a Gov-
ernment official who shoived me the regulation
confessed that he had a devil of a tussle to
deal with his own return correctly.-—Yours,
F'o Chai.
Motor Finance.
Four or five years ago motor finance was
attracting so much attention that it required
only a few respectable commercial men to
put their names to a discount co.’s pros-
pectus, and within a .month or two a firm of
brokers would raise enough capital (usually
at a cost of 10 to 20 per cent.) to start a co.,
handing out good money in exchange for
p.n.’s taken by motor-car dealers under hire-
purchase agreements. Discount rates on the
p.n.’s were so attractive that competition
became acute, particularly for the paper of
the sounder motor houses.
The boom subsided, but not before a host
of motor-finance cos. had become more or less
established. In their rush for business the
danger-spot for these cos. became the accept-
ance of poor quality, securities, of which an
abundance was offering. Many cos. were
soon in difficulties. The fall in value of all
classes of property over the last 12 months,
and the difficulty of realising some assets
(especially used cars) at anything but sacri-
fice prices, has made conditions very bad.
It is a relief to find a co. whose manage-
ment did not lose its head in the first rush.
Australian Securities, a Sydney concern, has
paid shareholders a modest div. right through
p.c. for the last three years), and says
that its contingency reserve of £7&66 should
be ample to cover all losses which are likely
to occur.
Itinerant Income-tax “Experts.”
“Jesmond”: Beware of itinerant income-
tax experts! This year I have compiled
several returns for clients who employed one
of these wandering accountants last year
much to their loss. In three cases income
had been overstated by amounts up to £lOO
through pot taking into account items for
depreciation, replacements, repairs, etc. In
four cases lists required in claiming deduc-
tions had not been made out, and consequently
the deductions were not allowed. In another
case a business man’s first return was much
overstated, and no reason was given for it
being his first return; in consequence he has
now to furnish returns for the three previous
years. Fortunately he will not have to pay
double tax or any penalties, but the mess lias
cost him several unnecessary guineas, which
is to my benefit but not to the good name of
accountants generally.
One interesting feature of the world-depres-
sion is the extraordinary cheapness of call
money in the big centres of the world : it was
lent in large amounts in N’York last week at
the rate of 1\ p.c. p.a., and the rate in
general was no more than 2 p.c. The
explanation probably is, that men with large
amounts Of money in hand are so uncertain
of the imbiediate future that they prefer
not to make investments, reckoning that
money is the best thing you can have at
present.
In Australia call money is not at all plen-
tiful, and there is a steady demand for it at
from 4 to 5 p.c. Several concerns whose
stock stands high, but which have heavy
overdrafts, find it quite profitable to take
deposits at 5 p.c. on daily balance.
* * * *
Before the Tariff Board, M. Hannah, of
the Magpie Pipe Co., of Melbourne, asked for
a dpty on imported pipes, and especially the
Belgian-made article, which, after being
exported to England to be stamped “Made
in London,” reaches Australia to be sold
at Is. or Is. 6d. apiece. The co., starting
in 1916 and employing returned soldiers,
began by importing £lOO Worth of briar-root
from France. After that it used Austral-
asian woods, including the M.L. manuka, and
had obtained excellent results. The Mel-
bourne merchants had wanted more than
the 33 p.c. profit his co. was prepared to
allow, and as a consequence, save for small
country orders which still came to hand,
manufacture had ceased.
* * * *
An American cable asserts that during
July there was a drop of 47 p.c. in motor-
car output as compared with the same period
last year. In this fact Australian holders
Of tin-dredging stocks may find some explana-
tion of the continued low prices for their pro-
duct. America uses, roughly, 60 p.c. of the
world’s tin output, as an ordinary thing.
Much of this goes in the canning industries,
but a great proportion goes to the manu-
facture of bearing metals and other accom-
paniments of motor-car construction.
* * * *
Not only is the P. and O. building bigger
ships (B. 20/8/'3O), but it is going in for
modern methods of propulsion. The great
sucheSs of the Viceroy of India, first of
British ships to be fitted with electric drive,
has sent the co. asking terms from British
builders for five others of the same sort.
The dynamos furnishing the “juice” on ships
of this type are driven from either oil-fired
boilers or Diesel engines, and in either case
the objectionable features of the old engine-
room and stokehold are obliterated, while
much more space is available for passengers
or cargo. Further, there is only one source
of power on the ship, and that deals with
everything, from peeling potatoes in the gal-
ley to hoisting out the boats. Economy of
Working and ease of manoeuvring are other
features which begin to make the old steam-
driven type of ship rank with Noah’s Ark.
* * * *
The National' Council of Wool-selling
Brokets struck a gloomy note in its final
summary of marketing operations for the
season just closed. Exports in 1928-29 real-
ised £55,000,000; for the 1929-30 season,
£28,000,000. Though quality was well up,
the average price per bale for greasy sold
in Australia was £l3 2s. lid., the lowest
since 1914-15. Every figure in the state-
ment cries out for- lower production costs.
* * # *
South Africa is taking no chances witli
its wool-export trade. Official inspection of
every bale is to be the rule; only jute packs
may be used, and these must be sewn with
blue twine or closed with metal clips. Un-
skirted wools and sortings must be marked
as such, and bales containing any foreign
matter are to be rejected. That last pro-
viso would have little application in Aus-
tralia; but the simple old farmer of the
veldt still occasionally drops a couple of big
stones in a bale to make it weigh heavier
in the pious hope that the verneukery will
never be spotted. (Even in Australia com-
parative rubbish is sometimes repacked in
bales marked to contain high-quality fleeces.)
Fees for inspection are per bale for
greasy and Is. 5Jd. for scoured.
* * * *
N. S. Wales car-owners who chance the
luck and park in prohibited places, and
others who forget all about their vehicles
while the minutes wing their way, had better
study a section of the new Transport Act.
This provides for the impounding of cars,
otherwise “the seizure and custody of any
motor vehicle that is a danger or an unreason-
able obstruction to traffic, or has been aban-
doned in a public place.” The car will be
removed to a public pound and either sold
or destroyed if .the owner does not claim
it within a fixed time —this last a matter
for regulation and not yet determined.
* * * *
Every man knows where his own shoe
pinches. Perth lately listened to a wireless
lecture which began: “I will endeavor to
point out to you to-night the real cause of
our economic troubles in Australia. I refer
to the substitution of the internal-combus-
tion engine for the horse." And he made out
a better pase, too, than lots of other people
have done. Then you looked up the lecturer’s
billhead and found that he was a hay-and-
chaff merchant!
$ !|! *
Walkers, Ltd., of Maryborough (Q.), is
launching out in a new line. For years the
firm has specialised in railway-engine build-
ing for the Queensland Government, and is
one of the most notable designers and manu-
facturers of sugar-crushing plants. Rights
have been secured from Mirries, Ltd., one
of the leading manufacturers of Diesel
engines in Britain, whereby Walkers will
manufacture Diesel engines according to
Mirries plans and specifications for the Aus-
tralian trade. All the Mirries plans and
drawings will be available, and Walkers are
to concentrate on the evolution of a Diesel
engine fulfilling Australian requirements.
* *
Wellington (M.L.) has just placed a big
contract which would have suited Australia
very well in these times. This was for a
floating dock, and the job went to England
for £196,125. The N.S.W. Government dock-
yard put in a bid; but the figure was with-
held from us—mercifully no doubt.
* * * *
There was an interesting breeze at the
annual meeting in Sydney of Takuapa Valley,
one of the best-known among Australian tin-
dredging propositions in Siam. The co.
recently gave an order for a third dredge
to work an additional property, and placed
it in America with the Bucyrus Co. Pre-
viously, Takuapa had worked its property
with great profit and at low cost by means
of two Diesel-electric bucket dredges built
in Sydney , by Poole and Steel, of Balmain.
A prominent Takuapa shareholder w’anted
to know why the co. had to go to America
for the third dredge when the Australian-
built plant had given such satisfactory
results. All the reply he got was that the
new dredge was of a special design not made
by British firms. The American co. no
doubt builds bucket dredges, but its specialty
is the “grab” type, familiar in Sydney to
those who watched Hyde Park being trenched
for the City Railway. It must be presumed
that the new Takuapa area at Ban Pru
demands this type of dredge, else the Aus-
tralian directors of an Australian co. would
surely not have gone out of Australia for
plant in these times.
* * * *
Though not a new business, cricket-bat
making lias never been much more than a
home industry in this country. The London
firm of Slazengers will now erect a factory in
Melbourne and bring in experts to supervise
the work. Thousands of bats at values run-
ning up to £8 3s. apiece are imported annu-
ally, so there can be no doubt about the
home market. The wood to be used has not
been finally settled: it is hoped, however,
that Australian-grown willow will meet all
requirements.
ijt sjs * *
The agitation for a tunnel under the
Yarra to Williamstown has crystallised into
a proposal by E. W. Chalmers, advising
engineer for the Kearney High-speed Rail-
way. At present a punt crosses the narrow
strip of water separating the ancient port
of Melbourne from the metropolis, and on
dark nights motor-cars occasionally miss the
punt and hit the Yarra. Chalmers’s pro-
posal is to build a tube with an inside dia-
meter of 27 feet, to carry a footpath and
two lines of traffic, for £1,100,000, payment
to be taken in the shape of bonds or deben-
tures negotiable in five years with the ruling
rate of interest in the interim. An alter-
native and cheaper proposal is three smaller
tubes, one for pedestrians and two for one-
way traffic, to cost £440,000; £150,000 to be
added to either scheme for lining and equip-
ment. Something will have to be done
eventually, as the jamb of traffic at peak
hours and race days is a mild replica of
what happens daily at the ferries in Sydney;
but, considering the disturbance that tlie
installation of a humble talkie apparatus
has occasioned in the municipality, the pro-
jected scheme should end in reducing the
picturesque old town to ruins, with half a
dozen protesting aldermen buried under-
neath.
He * H< *
“Gipsister”: How’s this for Australian-
made? My mother has a pair of blankets
made in Marrickville, N. S. Wales, 55 years
ago. They cost 12s. each. They have been
in constant use and are still going strong.
* * * *
In spite of the fact that a lot has been
done in the Fijis in the way of introducing
parasites for the rhinoceros beetle and other
pests, local copra-growers are having a bad
time. It is estimated that the beetle alone
has cut production down by 30 per cent,
during the past year, while drought and the
increasing rat damage is responsible for
another 25 p.c. Planters have lately appealed
to the Administration for such additional
precautions at the chief ports as would
help to prevent the introduction of more of
the many curses of the eocoanut planter, of
which the rhinoceros beetle is only one.
But the real trouble lies elsewhere —in the
low price of copra. With a decent return for
his crop the planter can afford the expen-
sive work of exterminating his insect
enemies. As things are to-day, he has to pay
money out of capital account in most cases
if he undertakes it.
* * * *
“Tuner” : I sometimes wonder how much
of Britain’s “manufacturing supremacy” of
half a century ago was a domestic product.
Here’s a case in point. I bought at auction
a grand piano bearing the name of one of the
most celebrated of English makers. It had
been subjected to neglect and rough usage,
and before it was playable again I had to
practically rebuild it. The job was worth
doing, because although the instrument was
old (and pianos don’t improve with age like
fiddles) it had a remarkably sweet and
mellow tone and an action of feathery light-
ness. In the course of repairs I discovered
the name of a French firm on the sound-
board ; of a German maker on the action;
of a ’ Scandinavian company (at least it
looked like Scandinavian) on the keyboard,
and marks that suggested a foreign origin
on some of the metal of the frame. Coming
to the conclusion that the instrument had no
right to the name it bore I wrote to the
makers, giving details of the marks and
sketches of the framing and mechanism.
They replied, to my astonishment, that they
had “made” the piano in 1858, and were glad
to hear that it was still standing up to its
job.


INVINCIBLE
MARINE MOTORS are stocked
in 12 popular sizes: 2\ to 60 h.p.
"The World’s Best Since 1906.”
All Spare Parts always available.
Write for 30-page illustrated
Catalogue.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS
LIMITED,
Sydney Showrooms:
53 NORTH GEORGE STREET
(Near Harbor Bridge).
This match is designed for hard
wear, and is the ideal timepiece for-
country use. Mail orders carefully
attended to.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS’
“KNOCKABOUT”
WATCH
Remarkable Value at a Reasonable Price.
This watch is an absolutely reliable and
accurate timekeeper, having a high-grade
Swiss lever movement, jewelled in 15 holes,
and a compensated balance. The dial is
bold and numerals and hands are luminous.
The case is of strong oxidised steel, and
the watch is guaranteed for 10 years, and
kept in order free of charge (breakages
excepted) for one year.
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
7hp cen/ne of Queens/onc/s
' c/isfengu/s/yoci Soc/o/ Life.
WM
BRISBANE
-AW
Magnificent Ball*
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 83211 —-6 Lines.
PER SONAL
ITEMS
There was a possibility that Prime Min-
ister Scullin’s trip to England might be
abandoned at the last moment. For weeks
past it was obvious that he was fighting
against illness and doctors’ orders. He was
a sick man during the financial conferences,
and was no better when he set out on the
long train journey to Fremantle. A medical
report on his condition at Adelaide was
not reassuring; another at Kalgoorlie raised
grave doubts if the voyage could be under-
taken. There will be universal sympathy for
the invalid and hopes that he will be speedily
restored to health, whether he is on the water
or in hospital.
Selwyn Betts, the Sydney barrister who
has had the big job of prosecuting in the
recent insurance conspiracy cases, is con-
nected with three very old names in Aus-
tralasian history. The original Betts, a school-
master, married one of Samuel Marsden’s
SELWYN BETTS.
daughters —and everybody knows Sam Mars-
den, the virile parson-magistrate of the early
convict days. He had a tremendous admira-
tion for the Maoris, and in his later years
was more interested in them than in Australia.
Soon after Marsden died Selwyn was made
first Bishop of New Zealand, and to his sur-
prise found that his diocese took in the
islands of the Southern Pacific. A young
Betts —grandson of Sam Marsden and uncle
of the barrister —accompanied him on his
earliest voyages through Melanesia. Selwyn
Betts was born at Goulburn, where his
father was a solicitor for half a century.
The son, though not exactly a youngster at
the time, served with the Light Horse in
Palestine.
George Barber, with' 29 years of service to
his credit, ranks as Father of the Queens-
land Parliament. He started earning a
crust as a boy of 14 on a herring boat, and
a rough one; left the sea to join the Salv’-
army in U.S.A., and after working as a slum
missionary in English towns went to India
in the Gospel cause. Arriving in Australia
he took up trades unionism with the same
zeal; his prominence in several strikes in
Bundaberg got him into Parliament.
Adelaide has
just seen the
final extinction
of a rocket that
first went up
about 1916. Vin-
ce n t Zed, of
Syrian parents,
was a blacksmith
in S.A.’s south-
east, with a
knack of dealing
profitably in land.
In that year he
sold out, and
went for bigger
things in the city.
He bought Chief
Justice Way’s
home, the “City
Temple,” and the
Newmarket and
Ramsgate Hotels.
He bought into
a leading machin-
er y c 0., and
acquired a brick-
works, a stud
farm and the
biggest poultry
farm in the
State, and also
won some big
races with Clever
Jim and King-
bier. He bought
Melba’s place at
Lily dale (Vic.).
But in Melbourne
he met men as
shrewd as him-
self, got into long
and costly law
suits, and gener-
ally drifted back-
wards. In 1928
ho had to face
his creditors with
a big apparent
surplus of paper
assets but very
little in the
FATHER
LOCKINGTON, rector
of Riverview College
(St. Ignatius), which
has just celebrated its
jubilee by a week of
reunions and rejoicings.
pocket; and the
rest was a painful struggle. Only 45 at
the end.
George Hubert Wilkins, the famous ex-
plorer, who proposes to leave Spitzbergen
next May on a 2000-mile run via the Pole
to Alaska, in a 350-ton submarine that will
“trick nature” (in his own phrase) by sub-
merging whenever ice blocks the course, will
have a crew of 18, including Britishers,
Americans, Germans and Dutchmen. The
leader himself was born 41 years ago at
Mount Bryan (S. Aus.).
Vincent Ward, son of the late baronet,
who takes his father’s seat in the M.L.
Parliament us member for Invercargill, has
packed a varied experience into his 42 years.
He started work at 17 as a bank clerk, then
went to London to work for a firm of pro-
duce importers, switched to an insurance
co., and then put in two years in America
with the U. S. Steel Corporation, prior _to
joining a shipping business at Montreal. He
enlisted in the Canadian forces in the Great
War, was discharged as unfit, crossed to Eng-
land, re-enlisted as a private, was invalided,
joined the R.N.TJ. Reserve, and at the
Armistice was looking after French and
Italian shipping in the U.S. for the British
Ministry of Shipping. Returning to M.L.
he joined his father’s firm, and presently
became his father’s confidential secretary.
He’s the second son. The baronetcy goes to
his brother Cyril.
Commodore Henry King, who lost his life
when his yacht foundered off the Cornish
coast last week, was an M-P- with a fine
war record ashore and afloat; he served at
the siege of Antwerp and on Gallipoli. His
wife was a daughter of William Robert
Swan, one of South Australia’s pioneer pas-
toralists. In the fifties and sixties of last
century Swan was well known among the
squatters who blazed the track into the
northernmost parts of the young colony,
where drought and wild dogs and thieving,
murderous natives were a perpetual menace
to the pioneer.
From Tas. Parliamentary Press Gallery:
Phil Griffiths, the Speck’s new Solicitor-General,
was one of the first officials of the local
A.J.A. Others were W. A. Woods, H. S, Baker,
and Geo. Hogarth. All four have toiled 1 in this
Gallery. Twenty years ago only one of the Hobart
dailies suffered unionism gladly, and no working
journalist who valued his job was anxious for a
prominent position in the new union. Thus the
official jobs fell to Woods (chairman), who was an
M.H.A.; Griffiths (sec.), who had left the press
and was reading for the law; Baker (treasurer), a
reporter on the local Labor paper, and Hogarth
(vice-chairman), who was Hobart rep. of a number
of mainland papers and locally untrammelled. The
four were live wires, and pretty soon all Tas.
journalists were enrolled in the A.J.A. (starting as
the Writers and Artists’ Union), and fear of victimi-
sation vanished. Hogarth is the only one of the
four who has never deserted the little old press
gallery. Woods has been twice Speaker and is still
in Parliament; Griffiths has founded a legal firm,
and become Solicitor-General; and Baker, who col-
lected a D.S.O. at the war, is Attorney-General.
“I. Temple”: A gossip writer in a Sydney
paper said apropos the Governor Bligh con-
troversy :
After all, John Macarthur was a pioneer, while
the grandfather of the Knoxes, the Stephens and
others in the inner circle are not even mentioned in
the history-books.
The Knoxes are of Danish origin, but the
Stephen family is one of the most historical
in the Empire. An eighteenth-century
Stephen helped his friend Wilberforee (the
ex-man of fashion, who did so much for the
abolition of slavery) to enforce George lll.’s
famous Proclamation against Vice. The
author of Stephen’s “Commentaries” (the
Blackstone of the nineteenth century) was
a forebear of the Australian Stephens, and
Chief Justice Alfred Stephen (father of
Consett and grandfather of Colin) made a
lot of N. S. Wales history in his day. In
the course of three centuries this family has
given England, India and Australia over
a score of judges.
The Reaper has taken a heavy toll of M.L.
Parliamentarians of the old brigade this
year. Tammas Mackenzie, Pomare, Ward
and Stout —all knights—have gone, and now
George Hunter, knight, wool-king, politician
and racehorse owner, has passed over with a
score of 63. For many years he represented
Waipawa, in the Hawkes Bay district. A
staunch Tory and a loyal follower of Farmer
Bill Massey, he gave a great part of his life
to public service. After the Great War, when
many land-owners made fortunes by selling
estates to the Government for soldier settle-
ment at boom prices, Hunter made a free
gift of thousands of acres. His contributions
to Parliamentary debate were brief and to
the point, and he commanded the respect of
all parties.
Senator Paddy Lynch, who. has been
assuring the Westralian secessionists that
he is ready to “toe the line of rebellion,” is
an entirely amiable legislator with a flow
of words that often leads him into mixed
metaphors. He has had 26 years of Parlia-
mentary life, State and Federal, with . two
of the briefest possible sniffs of office, neither
exceeding two: months. In the Senate it has
been his ill-luck to be overshadowed by
the stodgy Pearce, with whom he has been
returned time and again by the electors; the
pair left the Labor Party on the same day
over the Conscription issue. Lynch’s last
grievance against his party was ventilated
with his usual fervency when it wouldn’t back
him as a candidate for the Senate Presidency,
despite his length of service. He was a
mines enginedriver before he took to politics ;
nowadays he is an energetic wheatgrower.
ARCHBISHOP JULIUS, of Canterbury
( M.L.), whose knighted son George, the
inventor of the automatic totalisator,
was pictured here last week.
Pfahlert’s, in Wynyard-square, which is
being demolished to make way for an oil
co.’s building, was run in the ’eighties by
the most remarkable pub-keeper Sydney
has known, “Old Tom” Curran. He was a
stout, dark, hirsute, genial Hibernian patriot
of the flowery Dan O’Connor school of
oratory, and his customers used to hear a
lot about Erin’s woes with their drinks. He
is probably the only prosperous Irish patriot
who has ever emigrated from Australia to the
Old Sod. H'e became a Home Rule M.P., and
astonished the House of Commons by the
passion and verbosity of his first speech. His
son “Young Tom” also entered the Commons
as a Nationalist. He w r as called to the
London Bar and is still living in England.
A. B. Sband, K.C., has retired from the
leadership of the N. S. Wales Bar while in
his prime. He is in the late sixties but looks
a decade younger, being a large, ruddy,
eupeptic man with all his hair, who has kept
himself fit by hard walking and light eating
and drinking. He would have been an ideal
A. B. SHAND, K.C.
State C.J., and he has been “sounded” more
than once on the subject, but he would
never allow the offer to be made. Some of
his assets were a fine brain, perfect health,
an equable temper, a remarkable capacity
for work, and a commanding presence. He
was a first-class lawyer, and juries liked him.
But he will be remembered best for his
character. In 43 years’ practice, during
which he has fought as hard for his clients
as any man, he has never made an enemy
of a litigant. He hit the other side hard and
often, but he never hit low; he couldn’t.
He plays no games, and has no hobbies
except foreign travel, which he has only
taken up of recent years.
Captain Hugh Grosvenor, the South Aus.
A.D.C. who was killed while flying in Vic-
toria, left only a few hundred pounds in Aus-
tralia. But the re-sealing of probate here
brings out the fact that his English estate
was worth £145,000.
Bob Lowry, who passed out at St. Kilda
(Vic.) the other day, was for a few years sec.
to Bawaa. Previously he was a reporter on
the “Argus.” During the Big Scrap lie w r as
quartermaster and major in the A.A.M.C.,
and served at the first stationary hospital
at Lemnos, and then with the first division
at Gallipoli. He was vice-president for a
term of the Federal executive of the A.J.A.
Jesse Paten, who died at Walton (Q.) at
88, was one of the State’s first public works
contractors. He came from Aylesbury
(Eng.) in 1858 a year before Queensland
separated from N. S. Wales. He was a
member of Brisbane’s first Roads Board,
and built some of the early railways in the
Wide Bay district, as well as harbor break-
waters.
Word comes from Ireland of the death
of Father O’Kelly, who made himself known
in R.C. circles all over Australia from 1914
to 1921, when he was Prior of St. Lau-
rence’s in Adelaide.
Captain Cecil Foster, of the British mer-
cantile marine, who died in England the
other day, was the hero of one of the epics
of the Red Duster service. In June, 1923,
li'is ship, the Trevessa, bound for Britain
from Port Pirie. (S.A.), foundered in the
Indian Ocean. Foster got all his crew off
in two boats and, receiving no answer to a
wireless call, decided to make for the nearest
land. One boat reached Rodriguez after an
1800-mile run; two days later, the other
made Mauritius after covering 2200 miles.
In spite of unspeakable privations, 37 of the
crew of 47 reached land.
THE DOCTOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
No specialist you’re like to meet
Whose talents men esteem higher.
From far-away Threadneedle-street
They sent us Dr. Niemeyer.
He came, he saw, he diagnosed
By means all Galens follow.
Right soon his stethoscope disclosed
Our Treasury chests were hollow.
He shook his head o’er floating loans
Regretfully as Sydney’s
Practitioners in. solemn tones
Might hint at floating kidneys.
Beneath financial malaise
He found our system quivers;
Disordered budgets show the traits
Of ailing lungs or livers.
Yet. howsoe’er the sickness irk,
There’s nought to cause disquiet.
The physic? Simply harder work
And less luxurious diet.
He came, he probed, he spoke with plain
Directness for his motto.
A pleasant voyage home again,
And thank you, Dr. Otto !
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


k&civSM——*
sm
%
%
a
■
K
ft***
4
n
■i
~ 1
A
'• '* ’:
I
,
:•••• -
Si
mm
h
hhi
I
Si
■
■
■
i
■
■
m
■lll
NOT THAT—NOT THAT!
DAD: “This is no place for you or me, Dave!'*


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Follow Through
Criterion “Coquette
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
King’s “Little Accident
Royal “The New Moon”
Hoyt’s Movies and Talkies
State •••••••••••»••■••••••• Movies and Talkies
Once again it has been left to wireless
to provide this page with its best show ot
the week. .
It was only a matter of turning on the
three-valve foolproof, and there the show
was. At least, a gentleman, was talking
about Beer. The capital is his. He made
Beer sound like that; solid and dignified;
another of the great B’s. The mere thought
of it now makes it necessary to ease emotion
in song
The Beer they brew in Burton
Is brown as autumn bowers;
It holds the glint of autumn skies,
The scent of autumn flowers.
The Beer they brew in Burton
Is strong as heart’s desire;
The man that drains a pot or two
Shall leap the tallest spire;
Shall fly on wings of amber light
Beyond the morning star,
And find the quiring cherubim
Beside him in the bar.
It is sufficient tribute to a performer that
he should be able to make a critic respond
like that. But he went better. After talk-
ing about Beer for a while, he issued an
invitation to all and sundry to go out aud
have a look at his firm’s brewery. After
that, the rest of the stuff 2UW was putting
oyer simply went to pot. The announcer
was still on the job, telling about the auto-
graphed Bradman bat, or how to apply
brushing lacquer, or of the dear old spinster
who wrote asking for the book entitled
“How to Get Your Money’s Worth in a
Honeymoon Home.” But all that had be-
come vague. There was only one possible
thought—an invitation to visit a brewery,
“An invitation to visit a brewery!”
a place where they make Beer! It was
irresistible.
Not that this Showman has no respect
for other members of the ambrosial family.
There’s Nelson’s Blood, for instance; quite
a respectable beverage. Some say it won the
war. Anyway, it is worth a snatch of song;
Now, some may drink to ladies fine,
With painted cheeks and gowns of silk;
But we will drink to dairymaids
In pocket mugs of rum and milk!
Then, of course, there is wine; that glori-
ous stuff which, according to the negro play
“Green Pastures” so consoled Noah from
the truly horrific spectacle of the whole world
covered with water that, out of sheer light-
ness of heart, he kept blowing the whistle
of the Ark and waking up the animals.
More song:—
Such a warmth in the belly that nectar
begets
As soon as his guts with its humor it wets,
The miser his gold, and the student his debts.
And the beggar his rags and his hunger
forgets.
They have their points, every one of them.
....But Beer! Well, anyway, this Show-
man took the first tram he could catch next
morning and went out to Tooth’s. He
noticed a difference as soon as he asked the
tram conductor where the place was. In-
stead of the customary vague directions, the
tram-man said at once, “Get off at the next
stop and walk on 103 J yards.” There, at
the portals, stood a commissionaire—not one
of those Dismounted Postilions you see mov-
ing about the picture shows dressed by shoe-
horn, but a bracing, hearty chap, his black
uniform with black facings spacious enough
to allow a probable expansion of from five
to six pints without undoing a button. Song:
Back and side go bare, go bare,
Both foot and hand go cold;
But belly, God send thee good ale enow,
Whether it be new or old!
Comforting thought—that that was written
by a bishop!
And so the show starts. You step past
the Hamlet of the postilion profession, and
are at once in an extensive open-air foyer,
idyllicly shaded with Moreton Bay fig-trees,
and under these, dappled and stippled with
the clean sunlight filtering through the
leaves, several pairs of those almost fabulous
creatures, brewery horses. The metal on
their harness is a burnished glitter, the
leather clean and shiny black. They are
staunch and colossal, aud proud of them-
selves, with their bay coats gleaming and
their white faces, their manes and tails and
shaggy fetlocks. Mostly Clydesdale, with
a dash over there of Suffolk Punch. Great
animals, at once symbols of , Australia’s god,
Boneandmuscle, and admirable advertise-
ments for Beer. Song:—
Lith and listen, lassies and lads,
Lith and listen to me.
I will, have no barley-water,
Cocoa, coffee nor tea.
I will have no rum to-day,
Though rum is a liquor golden,
But I will have a tankard of ale,
Jolly good ale and olden!
And now you are breasting a counter
that is somehow familiar. You feel that
you have been there before, and yet you
know you haven’t. Suddenly it dawns that
your right foot lias come to rest on a brass
rail six inches from the floor! No wonder
you look round for some “grandchild of
Ceres, Bacchus’ daughter” ! You are recalled
from the vain search (for it is an inquiry
office) by the entry of two policemen. You
recognise at once that these are no ordinary
“Those almost fabulous creatures, brewery
horses.”
specimens of the genus John Hop. They
are rosy-cheeked, happy-looking. Perhaps
they have good wives who feed them well,
or it may be the exercise they get on their
geixeral rounds of inspection, or perhaps, like
Frith, they belong to a gymnasium, and
keep fit by the simple process of taking a
leathering a couple of times a week from
some emaciated gentleman like Joe Wallis.
Anyway, they look splendid.
You see them go out reluctantly; and then
you are aware that it isn’t all a dream.
The show is well on the way. In lieu of
a programme you are provided with an
escort. He indicates what you accept as
the opening chorus —a long queue of men —
strong fellows with bare arms and leather
aprons. A step at a time the queue moves
forward, as the leader takes his pint of
Free Beer. Free! Perhaps in the great
Outback, after a dry and dusty day, some-
one reading these words will spit incredu-
lously into the fire and say, “Free Beer!
Get out, there’s no such thing!” Men were
disbelievers ever. Why, even these —mem-
bers of a .Chosen Race if ever there was one
—give the impression of still having a lurk-
ing doubt about the reality of it. Perhaps,
though, it is the sacredness of the rites that
keeps them so intent and serious. Cer-
tainly it is a satisfying, ineffable spectacle
to see the leading man of the queue step
forward, grasp his pint, gaze profoundly
into it, brace his shoulders —after the
manner of Kubelik, only bigger—and tilt it
regally aloft. What are mere free theatre
seats compared with this? You have lived,
you have loved, and you have looked upon
the unattainable —the uttermost pinnacle
that can be reached in the deadhead pro-
fession.
And now, if little is said here of the
show itself, of the actual making of Beer,
that will at least be in keeping with the cus-
tomary in theatrical criticism. It is not that
the show falls short; rather it is too big.
You climb up and down iron stairways,
among burnished copper pipes and great
white and rfed and green cylindrical hop-
pers and boilers and tanks —like the inside
of a ship. You gather the astounding infor-
mation that water is used in making Beer.
And you meet the feminine element.
She is quite undraped. You take her
between your hands and crush her passion-
ately. Your senses swim with the fragrance
of her. And there beside you, unmoved, your
escort is saying, “Yes, it is only the female
hop-flowers that are of any use to us. \\ e
could dispense with the male hop-flowers
altogether.” It appears that they get a gold
powder off these ladies’ cheeks, a bright gold
dust. It flavors; and so the ladies play their
“After the manner of Kubelik, only bigger."
part. You great brave souls; you Amy
Johnsons of the world —your other name is
Hops !
Too soon the show is over. But you
carry away a memory to comfort you
through the hottest drought; through all
your days. When you are lost on the Nul-
lai'bor, when your throat is parched, all this
will stay with you—great tanks brimming
with Beer; bottles and bottles and clinking
chains of chilled bottles of Beer; clean, cold
rooms, with the pipes round the walls coated
thick with frost; reservoirs of Beer;Hakes
of Beer; trickles of Beer; squirts and jets
and showers and geysers of Beer; icy Beer;
cold, gleaming, glittering Beer—belly-furni-
ture for the gods. In short, Beer.
* * ft.
The Melbourne Office Flapper writes: —
Well, my deal*, I have been. amongst the
highbrows. I didn’t mean to, but circum-
stances conspired against me. I mean, I
and a girl friend were walking, down Bourke-
street, and we passed the Bijou, and there
was a show on, and it was called “The
Escape from the Harem,” and the price was
only a bob, and naturally we thought it
was a movie. Well, it wasn’t. It was an
opera, and it was by somebody named Mozart
who died before Fox Movietone could engage
him, but it appears he is a genius all the
same, and it seems that “The Escape from
the Harem” is one of his greatest works, and
it revolutionised grand opera.
Well, we laid in a stock of provisions and
sat down to resign ourselves to the inevit-
able or enjoy ourselves according to the cir-
cumstances, and, believe me, we succeeded.
I mean, it seems that in all other sorts of
plays people try to be funny, but in grand
opera they don’t have to —they are funny
without trying, especially when they are
student members of the Melba Conserva-
torium Opera Society.
Well, first there was an overture which we
thought was beautiful, and then the curtain
went up disclosing the courtyard of the
Pasha Selim’s palace. Well, a gentleman
named Mr. Rowlands came on dressed like
Rudolph Valentino in “Blood and Sand”
and started to sing in what I thought was a
foreign accent, but in what my girl friend
said was Welsh, about being an Italian cava-
lier named Belmont whose best girl had been
stolen by the brutal Selim and how he was
going to creep secretly into the harem and
rescue her. Well, he explained all this at
the top of his voice, and it seems that in
grand opera spies become stone-deaf when
a composer wants to put in a bit of pretty
music, so nobody was surprised when Mr.
Ray Harding, as Osmin, the keeper of the
harem, who was standing by in a dressing-
gown with a cushion stuffed inside it,
accepted Belmont’s explanation that he had
only come to pay a call on Pedrillo, a friend
of his who was a slave in the palace. Well,
then Pedrillo came in and Osmin said,
“Stand off,” and Belmont and Pedrillo said
“Yes, we will go in,” and they continued
to. contradict each other like that for 15
minutes without stopping. So that was the
end of the first act.
Well, it seems that pashas are better than
is usually supposed because in the next act
Selim (Cuthbert Webb) came on with Bel-
mont’s girl Constance (Bonnie Roberts), and
it appeared he had been proposing to her in
a boat on the lake and she had rejected
him, but nevertheless, although he held all
the trumps, he would not use force to make
her, because it was her Love he wanted.
Well, she said she couldn’t give him That,
and just then Pedrillo returned and intro-
duced Belmont as an architect out of a
job, and the kindly pasha took him on at
once without asking for references from pre-
vious employei’S. Well, it seems all was
fair in love and war in those days as in
these, so they made Osmin drunk and waited
“A leathering from an emaciated gentleman
like Joe Wallis.”
till the pasha was asleep and the coast was
all clear, and nothing would have been easier
than for them all to escape, but at that point
Mr. Mozart got a bright idea for another song,
so they all stayed on, and not only sang it
right through from start to finish, but gave
an encore. And naturally Osmin and the
pasha woke up and rushed in and caught
them, and that was the end of the scond act.
Well, it seems there is nothing new under
the sun. I mean, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer
didn’t invent the happy ending. I mean,
as soon as the brutal Selim learnt that Bel-
mont really loved Constance and that Con-
stance positively loathed Selim, he relented
and they all sang a quartet about it. That is to
say, Selim sang “Bless you, my children,”
17 times, and they sang “Bless you, Mr.
Selim,” nine times, and then they all sang
“Bless us, you, in fact, everybody,” 49
times, and the curtain descended.
Well, I suppose it is only our Ignorance
but I confess we were more staggered than
enlightened. I mean, I wouldn’t care to have
shares in a moving-picture theatre that put
on that story as straight drama. As my girl-
friend said, she had never seen good music
keeping such *bad company. So we went
home and in the train I had a bright idea.
I said, I’m going to write an opera about
a Mormon who elopes with a ladies’ college,
and my friend said goodo and I’ll write the
music for it. So that’s agreed, and the next
time Mr. Fritz Hart wants to put on grand
opera we are going to ask him to produce it.
Oh, by the way, there was a curtain-
raiser to the above called “Ruth and Naomi,”
and Mr. Hart himself wrote it. We both
thought it was very pretty, especially the
groupings, like colored pictures out of the
family Bible. Violet Colahan, as Ruth,
sang in a very sweet, pure voice, but I sup-
pose she is Permanently Disqualified from
ever being a Real Prima Donna. I mean,
she not only sang her part but looked it.
* * *
Kubelik fiddled to a full house at Mel-
bourne Auditorium on Saturday. Unlike the
'Town Hall, which has a modern heating
system, the Aud. on a cold night stands in
need of warming, but Kubelik contributed
no fire to the proceedings. He suggested
that impressive, awe-inspiring, even beauti-
ful natural phenomenon, an extinct volcano.
Melbourne has seldom heard such perfection
of technique, confident execution and dainti-
ness of' taste hitched to an artistic creed
of such austerity. Except for the Tschaikow-
sky concerto in D major, about which the
present critic is in complete agreement with
the critics who commented on it 50 years
ago, the items on the programme were all of
the same order. The evening wore on with-
out a cloud developing on the emotional
horizon. It was as if his management had
suggested to the master that it was his duty
to constitute himself an antidote to the eco-
nomic depression. The Campanella of
Paganini, the Bach Praeludium, the Rondo
Capriccioso of Saint-Saens and Weiniaw-
ski’s Souvenir de Moscou were all in the
same vein of passive acceptance of the pre-
vailing social order. If Kubelik had been a
writer he would have written novels like
Henry James’s. Deeper feeling intruded in
the “Ave Maria,” but that was an item
“Breasting a counter that is somehow
familiar.”
given in response to numerous requests, so
possibly it was a reluctant concession on the
part of .the violinist. There will be more
concerts' to-morrow and on Saturday.
# *
Tiie Bulletin dropped in on Saturday
night at the Royal, Melbourne, to hear
Romola Hansen in the part in “The New
Moon,” vacated by Marie Bremner owing
to illness. The fact that Miss Hansen had
played the previous night in “Little Acci-
dent” in Sydney and had arrived that after-
noon by aeroplane was the most sensational
feature of the change, which was possibly
what the Firm intended.
* * ¥
The Taliaferro turned on another baby
play at Sydney Criterion on Saturday, but
one that gave her considerably more scope
than she had in its forerunner. “Coquette”
is of the kind called daring. Its young lady,
while engaged to her father’s fancy, stays
out till the small hours with the other fellow.
He is going away, to establish himself, and
implores her to marry him, as a precaution.
Then the girl’s father takes a hand ; shoots
her seducer, and is due to stand trial for
murder. The chance of getting him off is
to prove that he was not taking revenge
but getting in first to protect his daughter’s
virtue. This will involve medical examina-
tion ; and the girl, knowing what the result
of that will be, forthwith shoots herself.
That, theatrically speaking at least, solves
the problem.
The piece gives Miss Taliaferro the oppor-
tunity for some strikingly contrasted acting,
and she manages very well. She has a good
comedy sense, and she is not afraid to let
herself go in emotional passages. J. B.
Rowe also has his best part of the season
as the girl’s medico father. He gives it the
acting it deserves. He has polish and con-
vincing sincerity. The generally good cast
also includes H. B. Jameson, Harvey Adams,
Katie Towers and Campbell Copelin, the last
an unconventional young fellow who stood
out in the late Nellie Bramley co.
* # ¥
“Follow Through,” the Firm’s latest offer-
ing at Sydney Majesty’s, has several notable
features, chiefly that it brings Josie Mel-
ville back. She was given a great hearing
on 'the opening night, Saturday. So was the
show, diagnosis of which is hereby postponed.
Meanwhile, the piece is a musicomedy about
golf, a truly dazzling cast including Gus
Bluett, Elsie Prince, Cecil Kellaway, Rowena
Ronald, Vincent Lawson, Sonny Ray, Frank
Hawthorne, and an entire nineteenth holeful
of others,
# # *
Adelaide Repertory Theatre makes a
feature of “club” evenings, which give a
trial to coming players and, incidentally, to
“The man that drains a pot or two
Shall leap the tallest spire.”
one-act plays. Its latest show was entirely
Australian: a Louis Esson “Gor blimey!
study of the Melbourne depths, an Alec
Symons episode of a great singer’s husband,
in a delicately cynical and Shaw-like vein,
and a moneylender’s romance by the novelist
Arthur Gask. Muriel Marks made a strong
impression in this last. The plays were
joined up by a Talbot Smith talk on the
drama —study and stage—of Australia.


/
mn
/
y! word ions
THE ORGAN MEZON ... . £4/4/-
THE WONDER MEZON .. £4/15/-
THE GRAND ORGAN MEZON, £5/5/-
On Sale Everywhere.
Sole Distributors:
Sfgonc Music Store
268 LITTLE COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE,
[PREPARED,],
Guaranteed by the manufacturers to
go further, last longer and uniformly
give better results than any other
paint made.—“B.P.”
"KEEPS ON KEEPING ONI”
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
mm
D
r,
KNOW More •
EARN More •
The more a man makes a study of
the business, the greater are his re-
turns. You will understand this better
when you read “Forging Ahead in
Business.” Published by the Alex-
ander Hamilton Institute, this book
tells you concisely and clearly how
and why business knowledge pays. If
you are desirous of making a study
of the finer points of business prin-
ciples, write TO-DAY for your copy.
It is waiting for you.
A LEXANDER HAMILTON
INSTITUTE
Division in Australia of
Hemingway & Robertson,
MELBOURNE : 38 Bank House,
Bank Place, Off 410-412
Collins Street.
SYDNEY: 38 Barrack
House, 16 Barrack St.
Pi-
The WILDCAL
COLUMN
This Week’s Investment Tip.
What effect will the politicians’ agreement
to swear off and live soberly have on the
investment market?
Balanced budgets, public interest paid
into a trust account at the Commonwealth
Bank as the due date approaches, no bor-
rowing except where interest and sinking
fund can be earned (and sinking fund to
be paid in, too) —what does all this imply?
First, it means a tremendous decrease of
imports, unless our exports can be quickly
and greatly increased in value —and there
seems to be no hope of that. So concerns
dependent upon the handling of imports are,
on the whole, going to show less profits. In
some lines there will be a struggle, resulting
in the survival generally of the best salesman.
During the past seven years or more Aus-
tralia has given itself a bonus of, say. 40
millions a year. Not only has that stopped,
but interest on it has now to be earned, and
sent away. This must mean the pricking of
a boom bubble and a great reduction of
turnover. With over 40 millions less to
spend a year we shall cut down on extrava-
gances in particular. The concerns hand-
ling them will especially suffer.
Property values are particularly subject to
inflation. A man whose purse a boom of
any kind has bloated takes a fancy to a par-
ticular property and pays a fancy price for
it; and immediately the fancy price becomes
the basis of valuation in that neighborhood.
It had been hoped that in N. S. Wales the
appointment of a Valuer-General would alter
that. In fact, it has simply entrenched the
vicious practice. Property values, having
been thus inflated, are liable to now fall
heavily; and concerns dependent on them,
or largely interested in them, will be special
sufferers also.
In estimating how* the sobering-up is going
to influence a concern, it will have to be
kept in mind that the public view of necessi-
ties and luxuries will be largely recon-
structed. Many of what were regarded as
necessities yesterday will be luxury lines to-
morrow. This will apply to our own indus-
tries as well as overseas imports and amuse-
ments, etc. For this reason, among others,
industrials must be as closely scrutinised
as any other stocks. Business is not going
to be so easy for them as we sometimes
assume. It is quite true that some foreign
goods are excluded and many others impeded.
But we have to remember that we have
bought 40 millions of goods annually for
{some years past because we haven’t had to
pay for them. We won’t buy them in the
immediate future simply because we won’t
have the money to pay for them and can’t
get them without. There will be restricted
buying; and here, too, other things being
approximately equal, the business will go to
the best salesman.
So far as profits are concerned it doesn’t
look, then, as if many are going to escape
reduction. But, as against that, on a read-
justment of values 6 p.c. may again be worth
as much as 10 p.c. was a year or so ago.
What we particularly have to look out for in
this readjustment of values is loss of capital.
The position can be especially serious where
there is a large debt at a fixed rate of in-
terest; and so far, of course, as the ordinary
shareholder is concerned, such a debt includes
pref. shares as well as debentures.
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.
To Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
J une
1921*.. 104,561 10 p.c. = 87,720) H ,, R11 „o,
Provident Fund, £lO,OOO j 6,841 611,237
1922. . 123,772 10 p.c. = 87,720 1 qg qeo 637 289
Provident Fund, £lO.OOO j bii.zs y
Internal reserves disclosed, £109,650.. 746,939
1923.. 161,006 12i p.c, = 109,650 )o R *7qq oqs
Provident Fund, £15,000 \ 36,356 783,290
Reserves capitalised, £109,650 .. 673,645
Premiums on new shares, £11,440 .. 685,085
1924. • 206,994 10 p.c. = 109,342 1 777 7a7
Provident Fund, £5OOO j 92,652 777,737
Premiums on new shares, £16,000.. 793,737
1925.. 205,151 10 p.c. = 133,200 71,951 865,688
1926.. 214,058 10 „ „ 161,040 53,018 918,706
1927.. 223,123 10 „ „ 175,680 47,443 966,149
Premiums on new shares, £98,110.. 1,064,259
1928.. 252,346 10 p.c. = 204,995 47,351 1,111,610
Premiums on new shares, £115,044.. 1,226,654
1929.. 227,106 10 p.c. = 208,102 19,004 1,245,658
1930.. 128,724 5 „ „ 119,682 9,042 1,254,700
For the 24 years to the close of accounts in
1929 this solidly-established pastoral and
pastoral-finance co. paid a ;steady 10 p.c.
div., with a bit extra in the fat years. But
on the heels of a long drought in S. Aus.
and the West Darling—there weye three
bad seasons in succession and in parts five —
came the collapse in the wool market and
sharp recessions in hide, skin and other
prices; all of which bit deeply into earnings,
increased the demand for accommodation
from clients and made necessary a revision
of security values. So the board cut the
interim div. to 7 p.c. p.a. and the final to
3 p.c p.a., making 5 p.c. for the year. Hence
the £lO shares paid to £6, which had a steady
market around £lO 10s. for several years, are
now priced at £5 9s. Allowing for the final
div. the return at that figure is 5.6 p.c. on
a 5 p.c. div. basis, or 8 p.c. should the div.
advance to 7 p.c. The visible backing
amounts to £9 Is. lid. in net tangibles.
Investment interest centres mainly in the
prospects for a recovery of earnings and a
lift in the div. rate, and both depend on
conditions becoming more settled. The most
vulnerable point in the co.’s armor is ad-
vances, etc., which have a book value of
£4,101,221; but the directoj-s give their
assurance that the provisions made during
the last and previous years are more than
sufficient to cover any probable losses, though
what seem quite improbable to-day may un-
happily be quite probable to-morrow. No
doubt provisions made partly explain the
contraction of £135,165 in the year's gross
profits, though, of course, low prices, a
lighter clip and a heavy carry over are the
chief causes of the drop
Paid Gross
Capital. Profits. Expenses.
1910 .. £300,000 £144,260 £84,738
1915 .. 400,000 172,386 102,438
1920 .. 877,200* 462,451 318,476
1924 .. 1,200,000) 585,196 378,202
1926 .. 1,756,800 652,260 438,202
1927 .. 1,756,800 674,127 451,003
1928 .. 2,050,320 733,162 480,816
1929 .. 2,393,640 704,286 477,180
1930 . . 2,393,640 569,121 440,397
*lncludea £120,000 of reserves capitalised from here,
flncludes £229.650 of reserves capitalised from here.
An encouraging feature was a cut of £36,783
in exes. Thus the admitted net result w*as
5.3 p.c*. on average capital compared with
10.9, 12.3. 12.7, 13.3 and 15.4 p.c. back to
1925. The decline in those figures is due
largely to the inflow of new capital.
An important factor affecting profits at
the moment is costs; when they can be got
more into line with fallen values things will
look brighter, and a 6 p.c. div. may
then be worth as much as 10 p.c. used
to be. As for wool prices, which are governed
largely by social conditions and purchasing
power in Europe, the future is quite obscure,
and guesses about it are worth nothing. On
the growing side good summer rains and
wide falls in July greatly relieved the posi-
tion in S. Aus.; and the outlook in Westralia
is for yet another good season.
The rapid expansion of the business over
the last decade, due largely to the growth of
the pastoral industry in Westralia, how well
ribbed the Co. is financially and the way in
which it has come to the assistance of clients
in a difficult period are reflected in the next
comparison :
1920. 1926. 1929. 1930.
£ £ £ £
Deposits,
etc. . . 2,201,305 1,971,052 1,976,496 1,751,034
Other lia-
bilities .. 65,587 73,331 12,138 25,134
Property, pre-
mises, plant
etc. . . 278,598 446,622 566,864 567,759
Government
stock and
cash .. 1,456,515 1,284,421 1,288,382 965,778
A d v a nces,
etc. .. 2,016,636 3,110,943 3,976,725 4,101,221
Other assets 62,630 158,317 128,991 64,240
To meet the withdrawal of £225,462 of
deposits, etc., and add £124,496 to the book
value of advances the co. drew upon public
securities and cash for £322,604. And then
depositors and others, excluding the provident
fund (£238,556), could see IQs, sd. of every
20s. coming to them in cash and readily
realisable securities. To cover the balance
there were advances with a book value of
£5 Is. 3d., and premises* which cost: £630,378,
in at £517,802.
Silverton Tramway Co., Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
«£ £,£ £
1921.. 18,834 21 p.c. = 12,500 6,334 35,432
1922.. 54,080 7% „ „ 37,500 16,580 52,012
1923.. 83.112 132 ,» „ 68,750 14,362 66,374
1924.. 90,557 20 „ ~100,000 56,931
1926.. 81,514 Hi „ „ 56,250 25,264 82,195
1926.. 76,603 15. „ „ 75,000 1,603 83,798
1927.. 68,572 111 „ „ 56,250 12,322 96,120
1928.. 76,074 74 „ „ 37,500 38,574 134 5 694
1929.. 53,914 10 „ „ 50,000 3,914 138;608
1930.. 84,303 10 „ „ 50,000 34,303 172,911
This co. owns and operates the 36-mile rail-
way link connecting Broken Hill with the
South Aus. system at Cockburn. Its earnings
depend very largely upon the haulage of
minerals and mining requisites. An accumu-
lation of zinc concentrates during the 1929
term, due to shipping difficulties, and the re-
opening of the Prop, and Block 14 mines
sent last year’s figures up with a rush.
Takings (£187,198) sprang £27,739, though
outgoings (£105,115, including taxation)
were £220 lighter. Including an unexplained
addition of £2220 to reserves, the net result
mounted to 16. S p.c. on capital compared
with 10.8, 15.2, 13.7, 15.3 and 16.3 p.c. back
to 1925. Nevertheless the div. was kept at
10 p.c., making an average of 10.8 p.c. since
1920. In that year paid capital was doubled
by the issue of £250,000 of bonus scrip, and
a further £157,200 of gift paper had been
distributed previously.
But the past is no guide to what may be
expected from the business in the future,
which depends mainly upon the future of the
big silver-lead mines at the Barrier. That is
to say, there is a point ahead when the co.’s
operations are likely to cease. So, to pro-
vide for the replacement of the share capital
when that time arrives, the board has created
a special reserve fund, to which £13,156,
including interest, was added last year, mak-
ing the total £25,656. To maintain last year’s
rate of contribution and pay a 10 p.c. div.
means that the co. will have to net at least
12% p.c. It will be fortunate if it is able to
do this. Exhaustion of the old Slime dumps,
the recent shutting down of the British, Prop,
and Block 14 mines and stoppage of prodm-
tion of zinc concentrates must mean a big
reduction in the co.’s earnings. Results will
partly depend upon the extent to which
operating and other charges can be reduced.
The market, therefore, prices thp scrip at a
few pence over par as against 255. a year
ago.
The comfortable state of the finances is
seen in the next comparison:—
1918. 1927. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital.. £250,000 £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
Liabilities .. 46,250 108,889 47,568 62,484
Fixed assets .. 204,346 472,752 484,436 488,681
Fuel and stoves 39,926 46,974 31,221 26,534
Sundry debtors 55,399 82,410 56,229 72,910
Cash, etc, .. 117,793 111,219 114,466 147,350
At the close of last accounts the liquid sur-
plus was £157,776, excluding fuel and stores,
or £34,649 stronger than at the previous
balance. Surplus liquids represent 6s. 3d.
per share. There was £342,224 of capital
represented by fixed assets and equipment.
It Would take nearly 18 years for the capital
redemption fund to overtake that figure at
51 p.c. compound interest and with regular
contributions of £12,500 p.a. Last year
£4245 more was spent on fixed assets than
was written off; they are reported in good
condition. But most of them would be worth
little or nothing apart from the business.
Cresco Fertilisers.
z Dividends ~ To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.
1928.. 58,970 7 p.c. 10 p.c. =51,243 7,727 38,460
Added Service Shares reserve, £3j>,000.. 73,460
1929.. 65,028 7 p.c. 10 p.c. =63,573 1,455 74,915
1930.. 64,224 * Nil 6,610 57,614 132,529
*6 p.c. on new prefs. and 5 p.c. on old pi efs.
This co. started in S. Aus. as a co-opera-
tive concern in 1914, but did not get pro-
perly going until after the war. Since then
turnover has. been multiplied by 10, and
paid capital, which was £124,239 in 1921,
had grown to £734,574 by cash issues at
the close of last accounts. The co. then had
three plants in S. Aus., one at Geelong
(Vic.), and a £90,000 share interest in
Cresco Fertilisers (W.A.), formed in 1927.
For the nine years to June 30, 1929, the
ords. received a regular 10 p.c. and the
prefs. 7 p.c., though little was left to visibly
fertilise the business itself, as the slender
reserve support for capital shows.
Until 18 months ago there were four lots
of 5 p.c. cum. participating prefs. aggregat-
ing £111,735; holders were asked to convert
into cumulative 6 per cents., participating
with the ords. after the latter received 9 p.c.,
and all but £2825 of the lot had changed
over at June 30.
Cresco stood out of the big merger which
linked up the super, interests of four
large Australian producers with those of
Imperial Chemical Industries last year, fol-
lowing which there was a cut in the price
of super. Nevertheless, the management was
apparently able to further liven sales; gross
profits for the 12 months to June 30
(£128,789) sprang £8758, including a first
div. of £5lOO from the Westralian co. But
exes. (£64,565) took all the increase and
£BO4 besides. Thus, after allowing for the
pref. requirements, the balance of the year’s
net earnings was 9.2 P-c. on avera-ge ord,
capital as against 10 p.c. the year before.
But owing- to the uncertain outlook no ord.
div. is to be paid.
The trend of commodity prices is definitely
downwards, but the need for increased pro-
duction should help to sustain the total of
sales. It is plain, however, that a 10 p.c.
div. need not be looked for if reserves are
to get the attention desirable. The market
prices the pound ords. at 13s. At that
figure the return would be 7.7 p.c. on a 5 p.c.
div, basis. At 17s. 4d. the prefs. return
6.9 p.c. on a 6_ p.c. div, basis.
To carry fixed assets and stocks (an un-
tidy entry) with a book value of £605,211
and £002,375 of book debts, the co. is neces-
sarily a heavy borrower :
1924. 1927. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital.. £290,031 £500,392 £733,819 £734,574
Liabilities .. 57,418 242,838 311,996 498,433
Freeholds, plant
and stocks.. 307,474 569,147 654,879 608,211
Shares in other
cos. .. 78,750 90,000
Advances to W.A.
co 31,438 78,620
Debtors . . 69,840 227,718 414,081 602,375
Cash, etc. . . 4,257 19,562 5,155 939
Last year £188,294 was added to debtors’
balances, and the amount coming to credi-
tors was increased by £186,437. An extra
£47,182 was advanced to the Westralian
co., and the stock and plant item was re-
duced £46,668. Thus the liquid surplus was
£153,501, excluding stocks. Drought and
the fall in prices is partly responsible for
the size of book debts. Much obviously de-
pends upon their soundness, and upon the
allowances for depreciation and contingen-
cies proving to be adequate.
Walkers, Ltd. (Q.).
Dividends and Written
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1920 .. 12,005 7 p.c. = 9,291 2750 12,384
1921 .. 12,198 7 „ „ 9,291 2750 12,541
1922 .. 30,478 10 „ „ 12,419 2750 21,850
1923 .. 39,991 10 „ „ 12,419 2750 52,672
1924 .. 18,014 10 „ ~ 12,419 2750 55,517
Diamond jubilee bonus (10 p.c.) £12,419 43,098
1925 .. 17,245 10 p.c. = 12,419 2750 45,174
1926 .. 19,983 10 „ „ 12,419 2750 49,988
Inner reserves disclosed, £23,060 .. 73,048
Bonus (25 p.c.) paid, £31,048 .. 42,000
1927 .. 17,123 10 p.c. = 12,419 2750 43,954
1928 . . 17,801 10 ~ ~ 12,419 2500 46,836
1929 .. 20,690 10 „ „ 12,419 7500 47,607
1930 . . 11,747 8 ~ „ 9,935 2500 46,919
Ail tlie big contracts in hand at the close
of accounts in 1929 were off the machines by
the end of October last. Nothing further
came along in the way of large business,
and small orders were elusive. One result was
a slip of £6086 in the year’s gross profit
(£19,010). Exes. (£9763) were £739
heavier; so the net profit claimed was £6825
lighter at £9247. The difference between that
figure and the profit shown in the table
represents unexplained additions to the depre-
ciation account, now £63,000 ; these additions
are then shown as written off, so the account
is not included with reserves above. A
couple of points were knocked off the div.,
reducing it to 8 p.c., which called for £6BB
more profit than was claimed. However,
shareholders received an average of 13 p.c.
over the last decade, and they could see
£34,535 more free reserves visibly supporting
capital at the close of last accounts than
they could 10 years earlier. Meanwhile the
plant was completely remodelled at a cost of
£40,000, and the improvements written off
out of the replacement and suspense accounts.
Future results will depend largely on the
extent to which the plant can be kept em-
ployed. Of recent years the backbone of the
business has been the building of locomotives
and sugar-mill equipment. Since demand for
both these lines looked like being sick, the
alert management decided to widen the co.’s
field, and Diesel oil-engines and pulverised-
coal plant have been added to the list of
manufactures, thus keeping the business in
step with the trend of developments in
modern engineering. Nevertheless business
threatens to remain difficult and overhead
stubborn, so the market now prices the scrip
around par as against 275. a year ago. The
net tangible backing amounts to 275. 7d., of
which 25s'. 3d. is represented by surplus
liquids, including stocks.
The year’s difficult conditions again show
up in balance-sheet movements :
1918. 1926. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital. . £124,193 £124,193 £124,193 £124,193
Liabilities . . 33,890 86,361 124,390 74,756
Fixed assets. . 47,350 33,158 17,572 24,425
Stock-in-trade 25,873 ‘35,231 39,743 42,968
Investments .. 52,050 101,102 86,730 86,730
Completed work,
cash, debtors,
etc. . . 58,316 143,471 164,565 101,681
Deposits on contracts (£15,131) and work in
hand (£3288) were together £63,372 lighter
than at the previous balance, while the book
value of stocks was £3225 heavier. The debt
was reduced by £49,634; but the more or
less liquid surplus (£156,623, including
stocks) was £10,025 less than at the close of
acounts in 1929. Fixed assets figure at
£57,425, against which there is the deprecia-
tion account, leaving the item with a net
book value of only £24,425.
The co. is obviously well equipped for a
period of difficult trading.
Standard Portland Cement, Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividend. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
Preliminary exes., £25,612 .. 25,612
1927.. 4,949 Nil 4,949 20,663
Reserves
1928.. 35,866 Nil 35,866 15,203
1929. . 47,268 8 p.c. = 33,936 13,332 28,535
19s0. . 47,872 8 „ „ 34,690* 13,182 41,717
*lncludes 1 p.c. on deferreds.
This is the co. which kicked off about
(Continued on next •page.)


The Super
Driving Belt
CHROMOL
“Chromol” Belting is made to withstand the stress of special
drives and difficult working conditions, especially where great
flexibility is required.
Moist and dust-laden atmosphere and varying temperatures
which play havoc with the efficiency of ordinary belting have
no effect on the ruggedness of “Chromol.”
This Super Belt is particularly suited for tropical climates and
is used extensively in mining plants. Let us tell you more about
3
V
Tan
Leather!
(Chrome
s-cy
CA
ELT
DRIVING
Manufactured only by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY (Our only City Address).
Touched
Bottom ?
There’s money to be lost by
buying the wrong stock or
trusting the wrong people.
There’s money to be made by
picking the right stocks and
buying at the right time.
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
doesn’t know everything; but
it has a wonderful accumulation
of data and unequalled sources
of information, and it places
these at your disposal.
AUGUST NUMBER
NOW ON SALE
SINGLE COPY, 2/-;
PER ANNUM, 22/6.
It looks a good deal of money; but it
may save you losing all you’ve got.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Inventors.— Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, 77
Castlereagh Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth
and foreign patents.— Advt.
ns * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Exchange
Arranged. Geo. E. Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria
Buildings, Corner Collins and Swanston Streets, Mel-
bourne. — Advt.
* * * *
A pipe line of the greatest efficiency is provided
by Pioneer Wood Pipe. It is light, strong and
extremely durable and its flow never decreases, be-
cause it is absolutely non-corrosive. Initial cost of
this conduit is considerably less than metal pipe,
and this low first cost is perpetuated in freight, trans-
port handling and laying costs. Much valuable
information will be gladly forwarded on request,
to those interested. The Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Bums Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane
Cove, N.S.W.; and at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
* * * *
Timmsville Timber Co., Ltd., Ulong, Dorrigo
District (N.S.W.), invites inquiries for select North
Coast mountain hard and soft woods, wholesale and
export lots. Steady supplies, graded, in sap or kiln-
dried. Electrical installation. Write or ’phone
direct, or to Sydney Office, 46 Trafalgar Street,
Annandale. — Advt.
* * * *
Bismuth. —We are buyers of Bismuth Concentrates
in any quantity. Write, giving particulars of
quantity available, and send samples to Elliott
Brothers, Limited, Box 494 AA, G.P.0., Sydney.
—Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
Jj! Jk & ' ***
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W H. Hart Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. 5
P. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - - * - BRISBANE.
With offices at London, ■ Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also this
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the; World, this
BanK offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
IDEAS FOR YOUR WILL
THE MAIN POINTS ARE—
1. To appoint a permanent and reliable Executor.
2. —To provide for your wife and family—
(a) Income to your wife; (b) Capital to your children.
3. To give general instructions to your Executor.
Write or call jor our Booklet “The Making of a Will.” .
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
“ COMPANY LIMITED,
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
three and a half years ago with a Govern-
ment contract, for 50,000 tons of cement
a year. It put up works on the Mudgee
line, 152 miles from Sydney, but, owing
to the unexpectedly heavy cost of equipment
and failure to .secure sufficient outside orders
to keep the plant fully employed, results
have fallen far short of the prospectus fore-
cast of a net profit of 16 p.c. p.a. on an
output of SO,OOO tons. Moreover, the difficul-
ties were aggravated by domestic troubles,
since disposed of.
The treatment of the profits that have
been won, however, has been quite sound,
more being put by than was distributed.
Thus a deficit of £25,612 at the beginning
had been converted into reserves of £41,71 <
at the close of last accounts. After making
provision for taxation and striking off
£25,000 for depreciation, last year’s net
result was 9.5 p.c. on capital compared with
9.4 p.c. and 7.1 p.c. for the two preceding
terms. The ords. were again handed 8 p.c.
and the deferreds came into the picture for
1 p.c. There are 75,000 deferreds which
automatically became ords. after the latter
received divs. aggregating 15 p.c. That is
to say, an 8 p.c. div. will now call for only
£7932 less than was netted last year.
The co.’s old contract with the Govern-
ment runs out next month. But a new one
for the supply of 65,000 tons of cement annu-
ally for three years has been secured; and
the price is .said to be right. So the co.
appears to be assured of reasonable profits
during a period which promises to be a most
difficult one. Nevertheless the industry is
faced with the problem of over-production ;
plant capacity has long been in excess of
demand, which now threatens to diminish
considerably. Competition, therefore, is
likely to narrow profit margins, if it does
not develop into a price war and make busi-
ness for the manufacturer unprofitable. In
the circumstances the market values the
co.’s pound shares at 155., at which figure
the return is 10.7 p.c. so long as the 8 p.c.
continues, or 8 p.c. if the rate of distribu-
tion drops to 6 p.c.
The most encouraging feature of the
accounts has been the improvement in the
financial position:—
1927. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital .. .. £466,691 £499,232 £499,257
Creditors .. . . 169,248 70,599 49,764
Freeholds and plant. . 522,335 516,053 497,235
Shares in other cos. . . 35,009 35,009 35,009
■Stores and stocks . . 35,774 41,525 41,351
Book debts and cash.. 22,160 22,750 34,864
Over the last three* years the debt, mostly
to the bank, has been reduced £119,484; the
reduction last year was £20,835. At June
30 the more or less liquid surplus amounted
to £26,451, including stocks, an improvement
of £32,775 during the twelvemonth. Shares
in other cos. are the holding in Kandos-
Coomber colliery. The efficiency of the plant
is claimed to have been well maintained,
and much depends upon that.
Equity Trustees Co. (Melb).
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 11,898 16 p.c. = 8,000 3,898 31,405
1921.. 9,117 14 „ „ 7,000 2,117 33,522
1922.. 13,640 161 „ „ 8,250 5,390 38,912
1923.. 13,769 19 „ „ 9,500 4,269 43,181
1924.. 15,289 19 „ „ 9,500 5,789 48,970
Transferred to capital, £25,000. . 23,970
1925.. 14,145 14 p.c. = 10,500 3,645 27,615
1926.. 13,355 16 „ „ 12,000 1,355 28,970
1927.. 19,123 18 „ „ 13,600 5,623 34,593
1928.. 15,801 18 „ „ 13,500 2,301 36,894
Profit on sale of freehold, £23,613.. 60,507
1929.. 24,224 18 p.c. = 13,500 10,724 71,231
1930.. 17,964 18 „ „ 13,500 4,464 75,695
The contraction of £6260 in the year's net
profit was due to a shrinkage of £2528 in
commission and other earnings apd a growth
of £3732 in exes. :
Earnings. Exes.
1910.. £17,131 £11,328
1920.. 26,673 14,775
1925.. 37,467 23,322
1926.. 39,086 25,731
1927.. 47,091 27,968
1928.. 46,963 31,162
1929.. 54,856 30,632
1930.. 52,328 34,364
Owing to difficult conditions the winding-up
of a number of estates has been delayed, and
this affected the amount of corpus com-
mission credited to the p. and 1. account.
The volume of trusts on the books is not
disclosed, but the year’s improvement in this
respect is claimed to be a record. But, as
against that, the fall in values will cut into
commission earnings, rents, etc.
At the moment the chief factor affecting
investment interest in the scrip is the new
building now going up in Bourke-street at
a contract price of £81,600. The land was
bought a year or so ago for £52,500, of which
£32,130 was owing on mortgage when the
books last closed. The old Queen-street
premises were sold to the Bondon Assurance
Co. for £40,000, and there was £39,500 of
it still to come at June 30. The profit
on this deal was £23,613, which was added
to reserves. oa nnn
To help finance the new building 30,0uU
50s. shares called to 10s. were offered and
quickly taken at a premium of 10s. On the
basis of figures at June 30, that will lift
paid capital to £90,000 and reserves to
£90,695. Then the two combined will have
to net 8.9 p.c. to pay an 18 p.c., which will
call for £1764 less than was netted last
year, when average funds turned in _ 12.1
р. clear. The market prices the scrip at
295., at which figure the return is 6.2 p.c.
on an 18 p.c. div. basis. The backing per
pound of paid capital is 20s. 2d. in net tan-
gibles. Much will depend upon liow soon
the new building- can be fully tenanted at
satisfactory x-entals.
Finances are comfortable, of course. At
June 30, there was £16,981 of the new share
and premium moneys in hand. The Bourke-
street property stood at £SB,OSS. The debt
totalled £48,630, and there was £164,577 in
book debts, public securities, cash, etc., to
meet it. The board could thus see
£129,266 in surplus liquids, including unpaid
capital, etc., with which to meet the con-
tractor’s payments as they fall due.
The Position at Captain’s Flat.
The Lake George Metal Corporation has
been compelled to slow down on develop-
ment at Captain’s Flat (N.S.W.) until
something definite has been decided about the
21-mile railway link between Bungendore
and the mine. The line, which will cost
about £200,000, is essential to large-scale
operations. Though the management lias
convinced the N. S. Wales Government that
it ought to be built, the Treasury is
empty, money is difficult to find, and pros-
pect of the Government making an early
start with the work anything but bright. So
the directors are considering whether the
co. itself should lay the rails. But no
decision is likely to be made until the
whole question is discussed with F. L.
Thomas, who is returning to London. He
has been in charge of operations at the Flat
since dewatering began in 1925; T. M. Owen
has been appointed his successor.
Over 30 years ago the mines at Captain’s
Flat were worked primarily for copper, but
were abandoned when the presence of lead-
zinc sulphides made smelting unprofitable-
They remained idle until about five years ago,
when they were tested and reopened by an
English group, National Mining Corp., Ltd.,
and Camp Bird, Ltd., under a sublease from
the Chemical and Metal Bank. Ltd. Pre-
sently a new co., Lake George-Metal Corp.,
Ltd., was formed with a capital of £1,000,000
to equip and work the property. Expendi-
ture to the end of February last totalled
£215,000, including £30,000 for diamond drill-
ing, £22,000 main shaft, £33,000 plant and
£13,000 mine buildings.
The outcrop of the lode has been traced
continuously for over 5000 ft., and the ore
body followed underground for most of the
way. There are three shoots: Elliott’s,
Keating’s and the Central. Elliott’s is the
one now receiving attention. The old shaft
(575 ft. deep), which was the principal one
in former days, is now hsed for bailing mine
water at the rate of about 35,000 gallons per
day. The new main shaft, which has three
compartments, is 700 ft. deep. At the 600 ft.
level, which is the main haulage level for ore
above, the skips will be filled from a 5000
с. ft. ore pocket. The ore reserves in the
three sections are put at 2,000,000 tons, aver-
aging 7.6 p.c. lead, 12.9 p.c. zinc, 0.8 p.c.
copper, 2.40 z. silver and I.3dwt. gold.
Very satisfactory results have been ob-
tained from the pilot flotation plant, which
treats up to 50 tons ore per day. At the
moment a roasting plant for the production
of sulphuric acid is being installed. The
next step is the erection of the mill and
completion of the mine equipment, both of
which are to be pushed ahead immediately
the railway question is settled. The first
unit will deal with 180,000 tons crudes per
day. It has not yet been decided whether
to get power from Burrinjuck, which will
mean an outlay of about £40,000 on a trans-
mission line, or generate it on the spot.
One by one cos. formed to work the New
Guinea fields are looking elsewhere. New
Guinea Gold Deposits is the latest; and it
had to sell 3000 of its shares in New Guinea
Goldfields to pay off labor and other lia-
bilities. It has now taken an option over
three leases at Pambula (N.S.W.). The
vendor gets a fifth interest in any co. to be
formed to work the property; and for the
plant now on the spot £750 is to be paid,
£375 on the exercise of the option and the
balance on or before January 31, 1931. A
fair amount of gold was scratched out of
this district in days gone by, but there was
never anything very big or definite.
* * * *
One result of the depression has been the
turning over of long-forgotten goldfields,
with quite respectable results in some cases.
One of the latest resurrections is on the old
Pratten field, in the "Warwick section of the
Darling Downs. There William Hawkins
has been rooting among the bones of the
old Queensland mine at Talgai, and reports
a good shoot at the 100 ft. level, between two
shafts, missed by the original workers of the
mine. The reef is ,18in. wide, of laminated-
blue quartz with free gold showing, and
runs out of the old workings into untouched
ground. The Warwick district was once
quite important; but when Gympie blazed
out everyone made for the new Eldorado.
The Rose, Thistle and Shamrock, a modest
Victorian gold show near Harrietville, had
an encouraging run of luck for the six months
ended July 31. The co. won 20S8oz. gold
from 1810 tons ore. Net profit was £3267,
and £2OOO of that was paid in divs.; another
6d. per share (£1000) has been disbursed
since accounts were made up. Total income
for the half-year was £8769; of that mine
exes took £5169 and the Melbourne office
£333. The reef on the western side of the
shaft is increasing in size; values are also
on the up grade, the last-two yields averaging
loz. ldwt. per ton. Sinking continues, and
a new level is soon to be opened at 1170 ft.
* * - * *
Although manager Thorn is straightening
out the complex affairs of Lake View and
Star, Golden Horseshoe and Chaffers leases,
the process is costing a lot of money. In
addition to usual mine expenditure, an aver-
age of £13,000 monthly during 1930 has been
expended on special development and plant;
and the monthly mine profit does not average
nearly that much. The general reorganisation
will make available the ore known to exist
in the lower levels of Horseshoe and Chaffers,
and is expected to justify the heavy outlay
incurred.
$ * * *
After granting Golden Butterfly Co. a
total of 18 months’ exemption from labor
conditions, the Warden squelched an appli-
cation for a further three months by stating
the time had come for the co.’s Norseman
(W.A.) leases to be manned and worked, and
he would recommend only 14 days’ further
reprieve. The recent option over the
property was turned down, and the co.’s cash
is exhausted. About £25,000 has been spent
on development and plant, so the board is
likely to make strenuous efforts to finance
completion of the treatment equipment.
* * * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
What arc the prospects of the closed-down
mines at Broken Hill re-starting soon? —
8683.
Not good. The B. H. cos. were all work-
ing under an agreement. The weakest _of
them closed down, as their employees’ union
would not consent to a wage reduction of
about one-sixth. Even with that reduction
operations certainly would not have paid the
cos. The other cos.—including South, North
and Zinc Corp.—have given , three months’
notice of termination of agreement. They
want a substantial reduction of wages, and
will ask for it at a conference to be shortly
held. It is very doubtful if the men’s leaders
will agree to recommend it. They may,
however, consent to recommend a referen-
dum. This referendum would have much
better chance of success if it was under-
taken that all the mines would reopen if the
conditions were accepted; but this might
mean that the stronger cos. would have to
give the weaker ones sdme assistance. It
something of this sort is not arranged. The
Bulletin has no very strong hopes of an
early amicable settlement; and without some-
thing of the sort it can see no hope at all
of the weaker mines making a start.
What is the position of Australian
Graziers’ Meat Co., Ltd.? Are they likely
soon to pay a div.f —8572.
The co. put out an impudent prospectus
over 18 months ago, offering a million pound
shares. The object was to put up slaughter-
ing and chilling works, with dry rendering
plants, in selected country centres in N. S.
Wales, and to sell and distribute chilled
beef in Sydney. No estimate of capital out-
lay, profits, or mention of the country centres
selected was made in the prospectus. No
capital expenditure, other than preliminary
exes., was to be made until at least 200,000
shares had been subscribed. The co. has not
yet commenced business, nor has it shown
any sign of doing so. Whatever funds it has
are said to be invested in Government securi-
ties. (2) No.
For what reason did the Federal Govern-
ment abandon search for oil in Papua? —
8566. .
The oil-boring operations at Popo were
discontinued on account of the presence of
running mudstone in the oil-bearing for-
mations. It was found impossible to over-
come the difficulty, though every known
method of coping with the trouble was
employed.
(1) When is B.A.W.R.A. likely to wind
up? (2) What amount per share is ex-
pected ? —8596.
(1) No date has yet been announced. The
final distribution to contributories has been
delayed by litigation concerning tax-assess-
ments. (2) On figures at June 30, 1929,
Is 64d. per share, including reserve for dis-
puted taxation (6d.). Another liquidator’s
statement is due any day now.
(1) Is Hamper Automatic Gears, Ltd.,
likely to be a success? (2) Has co. any con-
tracts with car manufacturers to apply
its patent. (3) Does Armstrong selective
gear or the new Daimler hydraulic clutch
militate against successful universal appli-
cation from a cost point of view? —8639.
(1) Engineers in Victoria who have inves-
tigated the co.’s claims have endorsed them.
(2) No. Negotiations are now under way.
(3) Thompson’s Engineering and Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Castlemaine, say that the cost of the
Ivamper apparatus will compare favorably
with that of the Armstrong and Daimler
apparatus. (The extra cost is about £50.)
BRIEF ANSWERS.
L.F.S.: (1) Until a conference is held
between cos. and miners, the future is very uncer-
tain. (2) Yes, if you can afford to forget them for
a year or two.., .Brigalow : Don’t touch it....
P. : A very fair list. But read to-day’s “In-
vestment Tip,” and beware of outside liabilities.
.... M.R.A.: The less you look at the sharemarket
the better. At any rate, don’t note the fall of those
you are interested in without noting also what
others are doing. Otherwise you’ll be liable to get
out of the frying-pan only to drop on to the grid.
....Libra: Sorry, but don’t think the time is yet
ripe. See also Questions Answered... .A.T.P.: (1)
Dapto smelting-works were closed and dismantled
over 20 years ago. (2) Depends on class of material;
fair average price would be 15s. per t0n...,
Q. : (1) You must pay. (2) All such new
concerns are speculative; and the way these people
are going about their business is not reassuring.
... .Lacca: Worthless.


m
|ms of
50 ami f OO
W r MOW often have ; you heard a friend say, “It’s surprising how
I many chaps, and girls too, smoke Country Life these days.”
But when you come to think of it, there’s really nothing very
surprising in that fact. The only surprising thing about Country
Life is that such a fine cigarette can be sold at such a low
price—23 for 1/6 —three more than the usual eighteenpenn’orth
of high-grade smokes.
Then, of course, there are cork-tips and a swagger tin as well.
By the way, have you tried Country Life. There’s a pleasant
surprise in store for you as soon as you do.
Made in Your Own Country at The Garden Factory—Raleigh Park
—bv W. D. & H. O. Wills {Amt.) Ltd.
Country
Life
c vi\ k ginia d cigarettes
103


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Day. Week.
Tariff.
Single Room and Meals .. .. 25/ ■ 168/-
Double Room and Meals .. .. 45/- 300/-
Single Room and Breakfast .. 15/- 100/-
Double Room and Breakfast .. 27/6 182/6
Telephone: F 4141.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
7 he Standard o i Quality throughout the Emplro,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatin*
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereash Street, SYDNEY.
Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE:
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner®
la carte from 1/6. Inclusive winter tariff, £3/13/6
weekly. Special quotations for sporting bodies, etc.
Situated right opposite Spencer Street Station, no
taxi fares; railway porter carries baggage across it
necessary. Please write for detailed tarifl card.
Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is sufficient address.
ABORIGINALITIES
A PRETTY HOPELESS CASE.
“’Ow ’st ’ee get on with Scotty? I bain’t able to unnerstand un ’tall.”
“Should’n’ think ’ee could unnerstand un. I don’t believe ’e can unnerstand ’isself.”
“Homfrey Beale”: I once owned a singing
snake. I was standing at my camp fire
one night, relieving the monotony by beef-
ing out a song I’d heard at the Tiv., and
beating time with a stick, when I became
aware of a hissing accompaniment. At first
I took no notice. Gradually, however, the
hissing became more pronounced. I looked
round, and there was snakey—a six-foot
tiger—hissing for all he was worth, and
beating time on the ground with his tail.
I stopped, but the look of disappointment
that overspread snakey's face was more than
I could bear, so I continued. Snakey con-
tinued, too, and we did several duets that
night. When I awakened next morning
my friend was coiled on the foot of my nap,
and immediately began hissing “Juanita,” our
star item of the night before. He stayed with
me many months, and we did a lot of vocal
work together. Then one evening he met me
returning from work a few hundred yards
from the camp, agitatedly hissed the tune of
“Kathleen Mavourneen” and streaked for
the tall timber. It was mating season and
I think he must have had a date with a
flapper.
* * * *
“Static”: Ah Sin, in addition to other
pursuits, owned a racehorse, and a very good
horse it was. The big race of the day at a
western district (N.S.W.) meeting was, Ah
Sin considered, a gift to the prad, and he
backed the animal heavily. Hearing just
before the race that his jockey was going
to pull the nag, he thought rapidly. Presently
a seraphic smile overspread his features.
The horse was saddled and mounted waiting
to go out. Ah Sin strolled leisurely over,
took out a razor-sharp knife and cut the
reins so that anything more than the
gentlest pull would sever them. “Now,” he
whispered softly, “you pullem, you blakem
neck. Savee?” The horse w-on.
*r* '!* V
“Piecrust”: Dad had somehow got himself
elected to the local shire council, and at the
first meeting he attended a discussion about
the establishment of a pub in the district
produced hot words. Dad had spoken against
it, but his arguments had been of no avail,
and he was still seething with indignation
when the next measure came up. The presi-
dent rose and moved that an extra sanitary
inspector be appointed at a salary of £3OO
per year. Dad hammered on the table. “Git
two more of ’em and pay ’em £6OO each!”
he roared, “then perhaps we’ll be able to
knock some sanity into some blokes I could
mention. Their ’eads oughtor be inspected,
anyway!” And he glared defiantly at the
pro-pub faction.
* * * *
“Gouger”: The night was warm and star-
lit. On the mountain side a chink of yellow-
light shone under a hut door. Within, an
old hatter, whose samp was next door to
my own, puffed his pipe, the firelight red
on his hoary whiskers. Quizzically he
watched the antics of a fat frog as it land d
on the hearth with a resounding smack.
“There’s more wind in yer belly than brains
in yer head, Greenie,” chuckled the aged
battler. But the frog, its bulging eyes like
black beads, took a flying leap and landed on
the hatter’s bare feet He kicked out dis-
gustedly. Hop in th fire if yer want tei
warm yer belly! lie growled. But the fro a
leaped again and landed on the old man s
lap, its green sides palpitatin 0 . The hatter
straightened up alertly; his head cocked side-
ways towards the door, “Who’s cornin’,
Greenie?” he whispered. “Hop into me
shirt, little bloke.” The frog obeyed and the
hatter reached for his gun, a tense expression
on his lined face. He levelled the ancient
muzzleloader at the crack under the door,
THE NEW ADDITION TO THE TEAM.
STATION MANAGER: “Well, Bill, back again in these parts? Where have you been
all this time?”
BILL THE BULLOCKY: “Well, yer see, Mr. Western, it’s this way. I got married, and
a nice useful beast she is, too.”
A snub nosed, sleek black head glided in, a
forked tongue shot out. “Bang!” The echo
rolled around the mountains, brought me to
the old chap’s hut. Just inside the door a
big snake lay dead, the hut was fogged with
smoke and Greenie was motionless with
fright.
sj: * * *
“Mana Bulch”: Despite the disbelief of
some Abo. page contributors, monkeys have
been taught to pick cocoanuts. I’ve seen
it done in Malaya. The monkey is con-
trolled by a cord round its waist held by
the native on the ground. At a word of
command the monkey scrambles up the palm
and squats beside the nuts. The simian
places a tiny paw on a nut: if that nut is
the one desired his master signifies by a
“Yah” [yes] ; if not, “Tida” [no]. When the
Malay says “Yah” the monkey breaks off the
nut by twisting it round and round, and
then hurls it to the ground; if the Malay
says “Tida” the monkey places a paw on
the next nut, and so on. The little creature
knows exactly what its job is, but chatters
and gibbers during the whole process, appa-
rently in a violent rage.
* * * *
“C. Coral": “Chope?” asked Jimmy Susu.
“Oh, yes, we got chope [soap] for wash
clothes old time before white man come;
we get that one along bush, he root belong
one tree. You take that root, smash him,
rub him along clothes, he number one for
make clean. Then we got another kind ting.
You savee that beche-le-mer, that same kind
we sell along Chinaman for soup? He got
one kind, call him ‘red fish,’ you take that
one, rub him on them clothes and boil him —
my word, all that dirt he come out proper
good ; make him clean like ’Ell! Or s’pose
you boiling beche-le-mer, you no chuck away
that water when you finish; you keep him
and put you dirty trousis, or shirt, or any
kind dress inside that boiler, he clean them
tings more better than white-man chope, I
tink. But some them native he like spend
money for nothing and buy that chope. But
what you tink? First time them old man
and woman see that chope, he come along
some wreck ship and float on shore. Them
man pick him up, ask what kind this? Then
they make kop-marri, and roast that soap
for kai-kai. By-’n-bye they take him out and
kai-kai that one. He no savee that tmg
chope, only when he start eat him, be get
proper sore inside, and tink he going die.
My word, that stuff make proper fool of
them old people; but you an me wc savee
that kind now—two kind chope he got along
store; one kind lie belong wash clothes,
’nother kind he smell chope for wash face
belong you an’ me. That one more better
for boy for give present to girl when he make
sweetheart along her.”
* * * *
“Naw”: The wife of Ting, my Siamese
house boy, was expecting an addition to the
£ am j]y ) an( j t 0 add to her troubles, one of
her lower molars was behaving badly. Ting,
being an affectionate spouse, went off to have
a parley with his god about the matter,
Q n his return I asked him liow the business
was proceeding and he replied that he had
offered to show the deity “something pretty’
if he would pacify the offending tooth,
Apparently the god was impressed with the
bargain or Mrs. Ting was a disciple of Coue,
for soon afterwards the pain stopped. That
night Ting, being a man of his word, pre-
pared to do his part of the bargain with
Heaven. Outside his hut a sheet was fixed
like a screen, and behind this lights were
fixed about seven feet away. An appreciative
audience of natives squatted in front of the
screen and then to the accompaniment of
loud bangings on kerosene-tins and a wild
and dismal wailing supposed to be singing,
Ting and three or four cohbers began to do
a gfifidow dance behind the sheet. After five
fi ours 0 f tongue poking, body squirming and
other acrobatics, Ting considered good
measure had been given in the way of Celes-
tial entertainment, and the curtain (or rather
the sheet) rang down on the performance,
* * * *
«« M j M ick” : The circular tracks on
& . _ T a w TnmH .. w i hv
Kangaroo I lain (N.S.W.) nie it •
“Tagen” (B. 9/7/’3O) were not made by the
a }>o.s. They are caused by bush horses in
the process of what is called “ringing.’
when the flies are active a score or more
horses, sometimes two or more abreast, will
tramp round in a circle for hours, with tails
switching, and kicking up the loose earth
with their front feet, causing a cloud of
fi us t which keeps the flies out of their eyes,
By this means they form a true circle. The
same ring is used until the ground becomes
too hard to raise a dust cloud. Hundreds
0 f those rings can be seen, some in the pro-
cess of making, on Loves Creek station,
Centralia, where thousands of horses are
bred for the Indian remount trade.
BABBLING BROOKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I used to know in the long ago
A wandering band unblest,
The babbling brooks, as the shearers’ cooks
Were called by the gangs out west.
They mustered strong when the wool was
long,
From hamlet and town and track:
“The Tropical Frog,” with his wall-eyed dog,
And good old “Pancake Jack.”
“Ramstag and Tripe,” with his short clay
pipe,
“White Swan” and his mate “Blue
Bell”
If some were rough and their viands tough,
They all had good tales to tell.
Old “Soldier Green,” who to India’d been,
Long yarns of Bobs would spin;
Of merry whirls with the dames and girls
“Flash Pat” for hours would chin.
Quite debonair were the stylish pair,
“Clever Mary” and “Lady May,”
But aye to be rude to the fop and dude
Was “Brummy the Blackguard’s” way.
A poisoner with the provender
Was “Jimmy the Rooster” dubbed;
He was hard to shift, or to cast adrift,
When he’d perched where the shearers
grubbed.
But the slightest growl, or a sniff or scowl,
From the Ringer, the Rep. and Co.,
At the mutton ham or the puffs and jam—
Off “Rambling Jimmy” would go!
They livened the days of the mokes and
shays,
Of the knights of the driving blades,
And battled far ere they crossed the bar
To babble among the shades.
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


The
Hand
in
Need
3
for the
Sale of Skins
is the work of strong, reliable salesmen in market-
ing them. Consign Rabbit, Fox and Other Skins,
Winchcombe. Carson
LTD.
Selling Agents, SYDNEY or BRISBANE.
The firm’s determined, capable efforts never
fail to produce highest possible prices.
Auctions every week Prompt returns
TecalemiT Ltd.
LUBRICATION EXPERTS
MITRE HOUSE, SCRUBBS LANE,
WILLESDEN, LONDON, N.W. 10
Q.
LUBRICATION BY AUTOMATIC
HAND GUNS.
HIGH PRESSURES WITH CLEANLINESS
AND AUTOMATIC ACTION OPERATED
BY ONE HAND ONLY.
(Slide-on or Push-on Connectors.)
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street Perth
Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street Adelaide
Keep Bros. & Wood Pty., Ltd., Bateman Street .. Melbourne
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street Sydney
Martin, Wilson Bros., Ltd., 299 Adelaide Street .. Brisbane
Factory Representative:
Mr. James Thornell, 312 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“Feros”: A quaint little creature that
inhabits some of the eastern beaches of
THE HOUR OF PRAYER.
N. S. Wales —curiously enough it is never
found on the western coast of the State—is
the shellfish known to scientists as Snappa
photographica. It is not generally known
that this creature, like certain fishes, has
the power of _ recording photographic repro-
ductions of , its surroundings. Its shell,
which is globular, is very thin —in fact,
transparent—in the centre, forming a sort
of lens which focuses on to the white body
of the mollusc. At certain periods of the
year—Linnseus says it is when the snappas
commence to eat water-cress, while Lavater
says it is when the crabs start their south-
ward flight—the image formed by the lens
throughout a long sunny day (the snappa's
immobility and its habit of standing edge
up are its strong characteristics) is retained
in black and white pigmentation on the
mollusc until the following day, when it dis-
appears. to he succeeded by a fresh impres-
sion. But the most peculiar feature dis-
closed in photographs of these strange m d-
luscular pictures, taken at night, is that the
future as well as the present is depicted.
A MAN TO BE PROUD OF.
MRS. GUBBINS: “I’m glad to ’ear your ’usband’s up and about again, Mrs. Miggs.”
MRS. MIGGS: “Yes, the doctor says ’e ’as marvellous powers of vituperation.”
For instance, a view of Sydney Harbor
dated 1897 shows the Harbor Bridge com-
plete in every detail, and glimpses of the
city skyline dated 1898 show buildings very
much higher than any yet erected. Since
1898 the snappas have been very scarce, and
so shy that no authentic specimens have
been obtainable.
* * * *
“MacFlecknoe”: Armidale (N.S.W.) has
provided one of the most unusual homes for
bees. A swarm has settled on the head of
the figure of the Virgin Mary in front of
the R.C. Cathedral. It is about 30 feet up,
overhanging a busy street, and though it has
been there for about a year every effort
made to dislodge the inhabitants has been
a failure.
* * * *
“Jaques”: “Boss’s” theory of twins (B.
13/S/’29) isn’t applicable to every case. I
know twin brothers who are as alike as
two peas in appearance, but entirely differ-
ent in character and tastes. One is a baker
and the other a carpenter. The baker is a
boozer and the carpenter totally abstains.
On several occasions I have seen them
endeavoring to strangle each other. If they
hadn’t been separated, I’m sure one or the
other would have been a corpse. Neither
would lend the other so much as a clean
collar to save his life. I dunno anything
about lady twins, save that they arrive in
pairs.
* * * *
“Wandi”: A man I know, who was travel-
ling on horseback, was taken to hospital with
an injured leg, and his horse
was let go in the town com-
mon. His dog' hung'; about the
institution for a day or two,
and then, seeing no sign of his
boss, he disappeared. The in-
valid after leaving the hospital
a week later searched the town
and contiguous camps, but no-
body had seen or heard of
Rover. Then the herdsman
brought up the traveller’s horse
—and with him came the missing dog, which
apparently had stuck to the steed day and
night for the whole week.
* * * *
“Ghillie”: Deer-stalking, a sport which
in Britain is now only available to the
American or Jo’burg millionaire, can be had
for the asking in Australia and, Maoriland
and that without any accompaniment of
swank or expense. Instead of paying mur-
derous rents for moors, intending shooters
are implored to come along and thin off what
has come to b« a pest. The red deer in
M.L. is a curse, not only to the farmers, but
to the community, for he is destroying the
forests and plantations. On the Darling
Downs in Queensland, the same animal has
become a dreaded crop destroyer, and one
which no fence can keep out. Victoria is now
cursing the day it imported the great Indian
sambhur. The beasts have increased so
rapidly that the Gembrook district, only 40
miles from Melbourne, is calling Macedonia-
like for sportsmen to come over and help it.
As in Queensland and M.L., the deer are
playing the dickens with the crops and
fences, and the local sports can’t cope with
them.
“H. 8.” : A bush tipple that has gone the
way of most features of the pioneering days
was lioney-beer, a brew that for potency
could give anything made to-day several
pythons start and win by the whole gamut
of zoology. It was made by. boiling about
three pounds of the honeycomb of the native
bee in a kerosene-tin of water for 24 hours
(adding water to cope with, evaporation),
allowing the mixture to stand till fermenta-
tion began (a matter of about three days)
and then adding half a pound of hops and
boiling again for two hours. The liquid,
when cold, was bottled and securely corked
and buried or kept in a cool place for three
weeks, at the end of which time a bottle
was good for a week’s headache. It was the
favorite booze of the early Cloncurry copper-
miners, Coolgardie prospectors and other
civilisation-fringers. Introduced to a Binghi
camp, one bottle was equal to three murders.
* * * *
“Sharpshooter”: “H'uffin-Guffin” says (B.
6/8/’3O) that in the old days there was
a bit of sport about shooting ’possums, by
“mooning” them, and characterises the
modern method —locating the furry target in
the ray of a powerful electric torch and
shooting at the eyes—as “just murder.” But
REASSURING HIM.
BULLY: “Who are you yay-ping at?”
POM: “Don’t be afraid, sir. My bark’s worse than my bite.”
there’s ’ something to be said on the other
side. The ’possum, his curiosity stirred by
the strange light, stares directly at it. The
bright reflection of his eyes offers the marks-
man a clean shot at the head, and the mar-
supial rarely knows what hit him. With the
moon as the only illuminant it requires a
good pair of eyes to distinguish between one
end and the other of the silhouette dimly dis-
cernible among the leaves and branches of a
tall tree, and to then bring the sights of a
rifle to bear faultlessly on the small area of
the head. The amount of lead a ’possum
can carry in its body and struggle away
with to die a lingering death in a hollow
tree trunk is truly astonishing. One well-
remembered night I placed six .22 long-rifle
bullets into one of the little animals before
a brain-shot brought his carcase tumbling
to the foot of the tall blue-gum that had been
his home. That sickened me of the “sport.”
$ $ #
“Polycarp”: On Warroo station (S.Q.) a
battue of kangaroos was carried out in the
early days by a collection of 10 guns, all
good shots. Harry Bracker’s party (he was
then a youth, but later owned Warroo)
scored the biggest bag for a single day—
-547. In two big battues on Warroo the
total number shot amounted to 19,3(W-odd.
Have these figures ever been beaten? Several
good parcels of skins were made up, only
the biggest and best being selected. These
were sent to Sydney and Melbourne, but
there was no market then, and the skins
averaged only a few pence each.
* >!< * sic
“MacFlecknoe”: The staff at Sydney’s
Taronga Park Zoo say that the monkeys
watch the building of the bridge with keen
interest, and seem to see more than a man
at that distance. That is quite probable. In
1908 I was in the Loudon Zoo near the
monkey house, when the monkeys set _up
excited screechings, and pointed and gesticu-
lated at the sky. We could see nothing, but
shortly afterwards an airship came into sight
and was obviously the cause of the monkeys’
excitement. This was the first airship to
fly over London —a small, cigar-shaped dirig-
ible, painted in black and white circles.
* * * *
“Wendy” : How is it that the nightingale
has never been established in Australia, see-
ing that much trouble has been taken to
give the sparrow, the starling and other im-
ported pests a good start? I believe that
six nightingales were bought in England at
£5 each by a Mr. Wilson in 1857, and
brought out to Melbourne. Only two were
fit for flight on arrival, and they were heard
and seen in the bush at least 12 months
afterwards. Later various homesick exiles tried
to get the Government to spend cash for
the purpose of making Philomel an assisted
immigrant, but Governments are not usually
sentimental, and all petitions were turned
down.
* * * . *
“S. Severn”: Mau, the village constable,
looked doubtful. “More better you speak
him strong,” he suggested. This, Mr. Patrol-
officer Qualtrough flicked aside. “I’ll take
him to Manu Manu and put him in the
cooler,” he affirmed. So Gabi-gai-oai, the old
heathen who held the village in the hollow of
his dingy old hand by fear of his pourri-
pourri, was taken to gaol, unspeaking, but
clutching the cuscus skin pouch that held
his magics and hung round his neck by a
human-hair string, slunk down to the whale-
boat between two big Mombare police boys.
For a whole week he sat in gaol and refused
to eat or drink. Then he grew hungry and
started to eat himself. They found him one
daylight with a good part of his hand
chewed away. The heat and his teeth made
it septic and he was brought to the hos-
pital in Port for treatment. Our medicines
had no effect on it, and the P.M.0., wise in
the way of natives, sent him back to
his village. Mr. Qualtrough escorted him,
and, after giving him the father of a
talking to, bade him good-bye. A miracle
or something happened, for when Qualtrough
saw Gabi-gai-oai next the hand was healed.
There was not even a scar to be seen.
THE LIGHTS OF THE CITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The ’um of the tractor is music by day,
As it tears the good land from the Mallee’s
grim hold.
And the groan of the discs as they loosen the
clay
Sets my thoughts in a blaze with a vision
of gold.
But now, when the silence steals out of the
gloom,
And grips me, alone in my tumbledown
shack, .
I dream of round arms in a soft-lighted
room;
For the girls of the city are calling me
back.
The night is a lady in black velvet gown
All smothered in diamonds. ’Er sorrowful
eyes
Seem to guess that I’m sick for a glimpse
of the town,
* And she all alone in the depth of the
skies.
A mopoke is calling the faithful to prayer
From ’is minaret, ’igh in the old gum-tree.
O Gawd! ’Ow I long for the bustle and
glare
Where the lights of the city are beckoning
me.
I sigh for the beaches, the games and the
band,
Where a coot feels at ease, where ’e’s one
of the mob.
The glitter of wavelets on white gleaming
sand
Is a dream of the past on this bush-
whackin’ job.
Oh, the limousines purring with ’eadlights
ablaze,
The laughter of women, their satin-shod
feet,
The clang of the trams, the soft mellow
haze,
And the feel of the crowd in a big city
street!
But the moon, riding by, plucks the veil from
’er face,
Flooding the bush with a magical light.
Ev’ry tree wears a mantle of silver and lace,
And the black, fallow paddocks are things
of delight.
My ’and’s to the plough, and I’ll never turn
back.
No sweet-scented tabby shall snare me
again
From the ’ighroad of life to the soft, leafy
track ■
And the lights of the city may beckon in
vain.
S.A.
WILLIAM JAMES DIGGER.


Clothes
for Men
hfdh
and their
Sons.
“STRONGHOLD”
Work Shirt
A sturdy Work Shirt
made of a strong Man-
chester Shirting in Blue
or Fawn. The color is
guaranteed fast. Easily
laundered; made in tlie
true “Albatross” manner,
ensuring a long
period of service
* /"v ls%
L\J O
Three for 30/-
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED,
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
Toowoomba. Longreach. Townsville.
4 MONTHS TO XMAS.
Not very long, but time enough to make provision for the extra expense
which is inevitable at that period. Christmas retains much of the old
spirit; it is a time of rejoicing, of hospitality and the giving of presents,
and because it is summer-time in Australia it is a holiday period.
All this means expense, and “with most of us that means the provision
of the money in advance.
The Purpose Savings Account, and you, can do it.
Open one or more now, at any Branch of the Commonwealth Savings
Bank of Australia, use them sincerely, and Christmas will find you
prepared.
The Bank adds interest at 4 % per annum.
fcionwealtb Savings of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government .)
WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydneyl
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CBPARK & CASTLEKEACH. STS SYDNEY
SOIL MOISTURE AND SALT.
“R. Iv. Deea”: Mr. W. N. Hedges (B.
6/8/’3O) may “farm in a big way,” but his
soil physics are sadly astray. The state-
ment that warm soil moisture is more easily
assimilated than a cold rain recalls the
yarn of the young widow who, on being dis-
covered watering her husband’s grave early in
the morning, explained that she had promised
dear John not to marry again before his
grave was green, and asked whether she
should use boiling water. As for applying
heat to the cut stems of wilted flowers to
revive them, if it is attempted on a day with
the temperature over lOOdeg. in the shade
the opposite effect will happen.
Apparently Mr. Hedges means to say that
soil temperature plays a part in wheat-
growing, and that a warm soil is better than
a cold one. This has long been a recognised
fact. In discussing transpiration it should
be remembered that the ’ rate will depend
upon the season, and that one of the uses
of the moisture flow is to regulate the tem-
perature of the plant. The internal structure
of the plant should be regarded as a minia-
ture chemical factory in which some of the
most vital processes are conducted, each of
which requires a definite temperature within
limits for the formation of the desired
chemical compound, be it sugar, starch or
protein.
I contradict the statement that “a hot day
will heat the ground and draw the moisture
to the surface as a vapor.” How on earth
could a wheat-plant grow with steam
permeating the soil? Water in the soil
is mainly drawn upwards by the powers
of capillarity and surface tension, and is
regulated to an extent by the evaporation
(heating) on the surface. Hence the mulch
in fallowing, and the theory of harrowing
to break the flow of moisture, and of rolling
to consolidate the surface and re-instal it.
Night dews, which are admitted to be useful
to certain crops, are formed when a layer
of moisture-laden air, caused by heat evapo-
rating surface moisture, is chilled by a
sudden drop in temperature during the night;
but how many pounds of wheat do night
dews grow in Westralia?
Finally, and most decidedly, heat applied
to salty soils does not produce any under-
ground condensation, unless you are farm-
ing on a hidden volcano. In that case the
yield would be light. A trip through' the Vic.
Mallee during the summer months would
show Mr. Hedges and “Tuart ” a white
efflorescence on the roads and by-ways, occa-
sionally in the fields. This is salt, and is
formed by the salt water being drawn to the
surface, where the water evaporates and the
salt remains behind. Incidentally, a great
deal of Australian wheat is grown in coun-
try where salt water occurs at a depth. When
these areas are subjected to irrigation, with
a consequent drop in soil temperature, the
salt is brought to the surface, more’s the
pity. This! is the main reason why Murray
water will never save Mallee wheat lands.
GOOD FARMING ALL IMPORTANT.
“Jamwood”: The Gnowangerup district’s
20-bushel average last season, compared with
the general Westralian average of 11 bushels
(B. 9/7/’3O), was discussed by Mr. A. S.
Wild, Government Agricultural Adviser, in
an address to the farmers at Moulyinning.
He pointed out that one Gnowangerup
farmer had got 421 bushels to the acre.
Farmers in other districts should not be
discouraged if they failed to reach that
standard; situated, as it were, between two
oceans, Gnowangerup was favored with
spring rains which other localities might
not receive. It also had good land and good
farmers. This i.s undeniable: still, I think
Mr. Wild would allow that there are other
districts just as favorably situated, and with
land equally good, if not better.
Gnowangerup is a “wet” district, getting
between 17 and 18 inches of rainfall as a
rule. It is a remarkable fact that Yilgarn,
on the eastern verge of the wheat belt —
that is to say, the region most remote from
the two oceans —headed the district wheat
averages in 1927-28 with 18 bushels, the
State average being 12.1 bushels. Gnowan-
gerup got between 10 and 11 bushels that
season.
A good downpour or two at a critical time
will do wonders for wheat crops; still, good
farming is the main thing. Since Westralia
began growing wheat in earnest it has had
only two really bad seasons, 1911 and 1914.
In both those years men who knew their
job took off a fair amount of wheat where
the slipshod got nothing.
Like all other recognised authorities Mr.
Wild emphasises the importance of fallow.
At the Merredin State farm, he says, the
crop sown on fallow produced 22 bushels
131 b.; on non-fallow, 16 bushels 61b. Again,
the yield from well-worked fallow was 22
bushels 361 b.; from neglected fallow, 20
bushels 561 b. For working fallowed land, he
prefers the springtyne cultivator, as it leaves
a cloddy mulch which is more apt to pre-
serve the soil in proper conditions; the
harrows, he thinks, are apt to leave the sur-
face too flat. In his judgment, early fallow-
ing will given better results than late fal-
lowing. As regards summer fallowing, prac-
tised in the Wimmera, experiments at the
Chapman State farm gave no increase of
yield over winter fallowing. “The various
steps in the growing of a good crop,” says
Mr. Wild, “may be likened to the links
of a chain. If insufficient super, is used,
that might be the weakest link; if plenty of
super, is used, and yet the tillage is poor,
the tillage would be the weakest link.”
PRAISE FOR THE SMOOGER.
“T.” : N. S. Wales agricultural instructors
Bartlett and Furby, writing in the August
“Gazette,” justly praise the smooger, which
the inventive brain of the Australian farmer
devised for breaking up mixed, heavy soils
interspersed with crabholes. The original
smooger (“really a very heavy drag harrow
with large spikes”) consisted of two railway
sleepers, held parallel, 18 inches apart, by
three flat iron bars bolted through the
sleepers. The spikes (pieces of similar flat
iron bars placed edge forward and pointed at
one end) were driven through the sleepers to
the desired length. The thing was dragged
broadside on by eight to ten horses.
The original type is still used: crude it
may be, but it is simply and cheaply
made and is very effective. Another home-
made smooger recommended by the officers is
constructed by making a 5-feet square of
double 3in. x 3in. hardwood rails clamped
together all round by Sin. bolts, and with
stout spikes set in on all four sides.
First bolt the pieces of timber together, and
then bore fin. holes about Ift. apart at the
join. The clamping bolts are then backed
off and spikes made of lin. square iron about
lft. long are clamped into place in the holes.
Two or three cross-pieces strengthen the
implement and provide a frame upon which
to rest added weight when necessary. This
is drawn from a corner, and any corner can
be used. And, of course, the Australian
manufacturer has not been idle. You can buy
an iron smooger, with steel tines, in three
sizes, with or without wheels and levers.
The Wimmera saw the birth of the
smooger. Messrs. Bartlett and Furby con-
sider that it could be used with advantage
in many Riverina districts, especially in
dealing with heavy clay loams.
RETURNS FROM BLACK SOIL.
“Mudgee”: Are N.. S. Wales farmers and
graziers using black soil to the best advan-
tage?
Some of them are. Smith Pollock, of
Quirindi, lias won two out of the last three
championships for wheat. This is‘ grown on
black soil that has been cropped continuously
for over 40 years. Fred Benham, of Willow-
tree, is a consistent prize-taker at shows
for vegetables grown on black soil without
any artificial watering. Hugh McMaster, of
Premer, has about 200 acres of first-class
lucerne sown on black soil. Last year he
made more money from the lucerne farm
than he did from the sheep on about 10,000
acres.
When such returns can be got, it is a
fair thing to suggest that a great deal more
wealth could be derived from black soil,
particularly the black-soil plains.
DON’T WASTE HIDES.
“Kripple”: On small places where only an
occasional beast is killed it is no uncommon
thing to see what have been perfectly good
hides left to rot or feed weevils. “It doesn’t
pay to send them to market,” the owner
will tell you, “freight, commission and other
charges are too high.”, The same people will
send to the city for expensive sides of leather
to carry out repairs on jobs about the place,
thus buying from others what they are throw-
ing away.
On the other hand, I know men who send
their hides direct to the tanners to have
them converted to harness and sole leather.
Leather is a much better asset on any pro-
perty than rotting hides. Again when the
material is at hand repairs are much more
likely to be done in time than otherwise.
For light work a few kangaroo or wallaby
skins tanned are most useful. Don’t wait
till hides or skins are dried out as hard as
boards. Locate a tanner who will treat them
for you, then send them as fresh as possible.
THE DAIRY HEIFER.
“Bar K.”: Genex-ally speaking, it is advis-
able to breed from dairy heifers at two years
of age. By this time, although not fully
developed physically, the heifer is normally
fit to carry out the functions of breeding.
The first calf should not in this case be kept
as a breeder. The heifer should receive the
best attention during the next 12 months,
for she has not only to produce milk but
has also to build up her frame. She should
not go to the bull for her second calf for
at least three months, and preferably six
months, after calving, as this will add to
her burden.
A small milk yield on a first calf often
causes the farmer to neglect the heifer and
dry her off quickly, because she is not paying
her way. This is wrong. Keep her milking
for the full time and give her the same atten-
tion as the best cow in the yard. The result
will be evident in future milking periods.
If the practice is persisted in of allowing
heifers to run to three years or more before
breeding, the result will be to produce a
beefy strain of big-framed cows.
A TOBACCO-GROWING EXPERIENCE.
“Solanum” : I grew cigar-leaf tobacco for
two seasons, trying three varieties. Com-
stock did best. My district is not suitable
for flue-cured light-colored leaf, being too
near the sea. The American expert who
inspected it said the crop was the best he
had seen in Australia.
The price then offered by the manufac-
turers was ninepence per pound. In my
second season there was a Government sub-
sidy of threepence per pound—and the manu-
facturers reduced their price to sixpence.
So I pulled down a big weatherboard barn
and grew more profitably tobacco’s humble
relation the spud.
One season I was much troubled by blight
in the seed beds, despite burning the ground
before planting, and other precautions. I
recommend high ground, clear of nocturnal
fog, for seedbeds. There is a lot of work
shading and watering the young plants
after planting out. Slices of banana stem
were fairly good for shading, but the best
thing I struck was a river weed that dried
away to nothing when its work was done.
The miner grub that works inside the
tissue of the leaves was troublesome. I
found the Paris-green spray recommended by
departmental experts useless. The American
told me to use it more than double the
strength for the other pests. Spraying is a
nasty job between tall close rows of plants;
you cannot avoid being constantly wet with
the poisonous stuff. Children can help by
picking the grubs off.
Given fair prices and seasons I think
tobacco can be grown satisfactorily in Aus-
tralia, and there is no question about the
market.
POTATOES A GAMBLE.
“.W.D.McC.”: I cannot follow “Hortus”
(B. 16/7/’3O) on potato culture. I have been
growing potatoes for 30 years, and I should
be sorry to use whole seed—cut seed every
time for me. The only safe way to select
seed is where the crop is being dug. Every
extra-good yielding plant should be put on
one side for seed.
“Hortus” also recommends dipping seed in
a l-to-500 solution of formalin. In my
experience, the proper strength is a gallon of
formalin to 40 gallons of water, and the
tubers have to be immersed hours. “H.’s”
assertion that no manure is required is also
contrary to my experience. This year I grew
one of the best crops I ever had, and although
it was raised on a river flat I used what is
known as the 6-and-l dressing—6cwt. of
sQper. and lewt. of sulphate of ammonia to
the acre.
Plough well, work well, use cut seed of
big tubers and don’t stint the fertiliser, and,
bar accidents, you will get a crop. But
potatoes are a gamble; you must grow them
every year to do any good. I have known a
man who did things in a big way grow a
crop at a loss for two years, and at the third
attempt clear £20,000.
“Go Do”: So “Hatter” (B. 6/8/’3O)
thinks a six-ton crop of potatoes is unsatis-
factory. I consider it excellent; the N.S.W.
average is not three tons. I have' seen a
crop (actually measured and weighed) that
went 17 tons. It was grown by a very cap-
able farmer; but over a number of years
he would scarcely average six tons. Excep-
tional figures, as quoted by “Hatter,” are on
record in N. S. Wales. The average for Tas-
mania, Victoria and Westralia is well under
four tons.
The fertiliser mixtures used in U.S.A. or
any other overseas country cannot be recom-
mended in N. S. Wales. Actual field trials
on a commercial scale have proved that
super, at the rate of 2|cwt. per acre is the
best fertiliser to use with potatoes. In most
cases when the dressing was increased to
scwt. the additional yield obtained did not
pay for the extra manure. Potash, despite
all the theorists, has proved a failure. Nitro-
gen, when in the form of a green manure or
organic manure, has been beneficial in all
cases. The English authority quoted by
“Hatter” is referring to English conditions
only.
The ideal seed is obtained from a late
planted crop that has been frosted when the
tubers are immature. If you do not know
the source of your seed supply, choose large
seed; if it is known that the grower prac-
tices “rogueing” and grading, take small.
There is little in the question of whole as
against cut seed; in dry times the whole
seed will probably yield a little heavier.
VEGETABLES IN THE MALLEE
“Notwen”: Spare corners of Vic. Mallec
farms —for example, headlands, usually given
over to weeds—can be turned to profitable
account by growing pumpkins, and now is
the time to set about it. It is best to dig
over the patch ; if that is out of the ques-
tion, make a fair-sized hole, half-fill with
manure, cover with soil, and let it lie fallow
till the beginning of September. Then plant
in each hole three or four seeds and cover
with a sack to hasten germination; keep
moist until seeds are up. If it’s a dry spot,
put a kero.-tin full of water, with a very
small quantity of manure, near the seeds,
the tin having a tiny hole in the bottom
through which liquid may trickle out so as
to keep the roots wet. When well established,
nip off ends of main runners to stimulate
growth of fruit-producing laterals.
In my district (Nyali) plants of the Hub-
bard Squash variety give the best returns.
Stored for winter use, they make a welcome
change of diet both for pigs and fowls, and
keep down the feed bill if boiled and mixed
with pollard.
Smaller waste spaces can be planted with
rock melons, which are good jam-makers—
a fact not well enough known. To hasten the
ripening of this fruit, place pieces of wood
or tin under it when it has reached normal
size.
FRUITGROWER AND FERTILISER CO.
From W. B. Edwards, secretary of Nitro-
gen Fertilisers, Melbourne: —
“Jones” (B. 6/8/’3O) has his shovel where there
is no dirt. His story of the ornate corridor, the
warmed lift, and particularly the fertiliser by-
product suggests that he was tilting at sulphate of
ammonia and the office where a proportion of my
salary is earned. If I remember rightly, he had
some trouble in locating the place—thought it was
funny that the man at the other end of the passage
had never heard of us. The office occupies two rooms,
and the staff consists of a secretary and a typist,
both of whom are only part-time officers, working
for two concerns, which share the office rent on a
50-50 basis. The reason why there is an office
at all is because. .. .well, hang it, why can’t Jones
attend to his correspondence and make up his taxa-
tion return in the shade of one of his own Jonathan
or Rome Beauty trees?
The price of the fertiliser by-product (if “Jones” is
referring to sulphate of ammonia) has been reduced
by about £3 a ton in the last 12 months, and all
fruitgrowers’ associations —there are several in
“Jones’s” own district—can buy on the basis of 5
per cent, discount, with a further 2| per cent,
for cash. The price is down well below pre-war
rates, and in the last nine years producers have
spent something in the region of £40,000 in educat-
ing people like “Jones” up to its value. Previously
they had been content to sell it to Brown Brother,
and “Jones” had been content to let them.
The f.o.r. price could be cut by three or four
shillings a ton if “Jones” called at the place of manu-
facture in his own truck or cart, and a further
considerable saving could be effected if he supplied
his own bags or took delivery loose.
And if some day, in the present state -of the
sulphate of ammonia market, a friend of “Jones”
gives him a sulphate of ammonia plant for a birth-
day present, “Jones” will find his literary output
suffering seriously because of the attention he will
have to devote to a real man’s size liability return-
ing only sufficient profit to keep him in cigarettes
—provided he’s not a heavy smoker.
LATE-HATCHED CHICKS DON’T PAY.
“Jack Point”: There is a tendency among
beginners, particularly in Queensland;, to
prolong the hatching season, setting eggs that
will be coming out up to the end of October.
This should not be done. The youngsters
don’t get a fair chance to make sufficient
growth before the very hot weather arrives.
They may commence to lay fairly young, but
are not sufficiently developed to be profitable
—the eggs are always undersized and the
pullets won’t continue long before going off
the lay. Then the later chicks never get the
same attention as the earlier ones. Rearing
chicks is a game that gets monotonous, and
if the owner is “fed up” the late ones are
liable to be left to fend for themselves when
they are not able to do so. Again, you can’t
rear chicks on ground that has been used
(Continued on page 25 )


'/////////' Y/A
r A////W a/w/t/,my//
Columbia
V/„ "m?//,, m. -"W//A. ""m, ""w//,. m
Y//,
"W*,
all the Wealth
that Music
provides, is you rs
if you own a
V I
Columbia P° rt *<6/ e
A ‘flJt WoMBesL
YJ i\\ ■ h-
/\
<K '
A
i
//
yh*u
1,-
i
m
I
m
w/,
MODEL HI? ICQ a
MODEL HI? 112 a
B
£7lOO
6ach Model 'with carrier in lid for eight records
MUSICAL science has produced no more efficient and self-contained unit
of harmony than this portable.
Learn to enjoy its blessings to the fullest, and to savour its deep and
enduring source of pleasure and entertainment to your friends and
companions.
With a Columbia Portable you recapture the zest and vim of the latest Fox
Trot, the haunting cadence of a celebrity singer, the rollicking chorus of
your favorite musical comedy, and the inspiring wistfulness of a “ Talkie ”
ballad.
It is sturdy, compact and neat —its weight and size is a negligible factor
Take it with you on your travels. It will always be there, readily accessible,
the unfailing friend.
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
GRAFONOLA LTD., 39 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA:
COLUMBIA DISTRIBUTORS (VIC.) PTY., LTD.,
300 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
QUEENSLAND:
KING & KING, LTD., Queen Street, Brisbane.
A. E. HARROLD, 123-125 Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
PHONOGRAPHS, LTD., 671 Hay Street, Perth.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN PHONOGRAPH CO., LTD.,
Gilbert Buildings, Gilbert Place, Adelaide.
TASMANIA:
COLUMBIA SUPPLIES (TAS.) PTY., LTD.,
Launceston, Hobart and Burnie.
9*
“There is mo better Portable
Columbia
fdjhfd
Portable


That the voice of Australia may be heard
throughout the World—
A.W.A. designed this equipment —the largest Wireless Telephone
Transmitter ever made in the Southern Hemisphere.
■m.
m
20 kilowatt Short Wave Transmitter —
installed at A.W.A. Radio Centre, Pennant Hills,
and used in
the Wireless Telephony Service between Australia
and Great Britain and 22 European countries.
Designed and manufactured in Australia by
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(A’SIA) LTD.
Australia’s National Wireless Organisation,
employing over 1,000 Australians.


Rugged ... with snug,
soft leather lining
Soled in toughest leather of
twice the usual thickness, the
Abbey Cossack is nevertheless
flexible and easy fitting, with
its complete inner lining of soft
leather. The tongue, sewn to
sides to exclude grass seeds and
dust, further pads the foot.
And, as with all Abbey foot-
wear, it laces without strain
over the instep, because of the
special arching of the upper.
ORDER BY POST
Same sole leather used in all styles,
but the higher-priced tan boot has
an upper of special calf. Order,
also, the correct Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete) .
Tan Willow Calf, 46/6 & 41/6
Black Box Calf . . . . 39/6
Sports catalogue post free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,’’ SYDNEY.
FPL 191
HAIR
NEED
here's
m
Grey Hair ia always taken to be a sign
of age or worry', and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy, A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
CMDUCAN)
VkdtudSteJjn,
♦removes the grey"*
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (i/6), 6d. being postage.
IP
The
Shave
Ploug'h
Increases
Cultivation.
SHAVE’S PATENT STUMP-JUMP
REVERSIBLE DISC PLOUGH is the
lightest draught Plough on the
market, and requires only two horses
instead of four.
The SHAVE PLOUGH enables you
to make full and good use of all
uneven ground which is inaccessible
to the ordinary Plough.
The SHAVE PLOUGH is made in
FIVE different types:—
Type D.—The Standard
Plough (double furrow).
Type B.—Single - furrow
Plough.
Type M.—For Market Gar-
deners (with high wheels).
Type O.—For Orchardists.
Type H.—Hard Ground.
For further particulars, send for
illustrated Booklet.
CHJKRS
234-236 Flinders Lane* Melbourne.
276-294 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy.
And at WARRNAMBOOL, BENDIGO,
HORSHAM, BALLARAT and PORTLAND,
VICTORIA.
v o^r«
Protect your hands with
Cnticura Soap
Always in view, your hands should be
as attractive as possible ... To prevent
redness and roughness caused by daily
tasks, use Cuticura Soap every time you
wash your hands; always dry thoroughly
... Assist with Cuticura Ointment if
necessary.
PURITY
Soap Is. Talcumls.3d
Ointment Is. and 2s
Sample each free.
Address:
R. Towns & Co
Sydney, N. S. W
Start yourfortum
o *th**Jt£s^
Ask for Literature
regarding our Plans
Get the banking habit. The most
fascinating game in the world is
to watch small deposits grow into
large. Start now with a small
deposit.
Have a Bank Account —Keep It Growing.
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS BANK OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London.
for the same purpose shortly before; they are
apt to contract all sorts of ailments if you
try. After rearing a previous lot the soil
must be sweetened. The best way to do
this is to top-dress with lime, and after a
couple of weeks to dig the lime in and
plant rape or silver beet.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Are the 1929 standards for chaff -grad-
ing still in operation in N.S.W.? (2) What
are they? —B367.
(1) No. Chaff standards are fixed each
year. (2) The standards for the present
year were fixed in January last. The stan-
dards consist of six grades of chaff: prime
green, No. 1 and No. 2 wheaten; and prime
heavy, No. 1 and No. 2 oaten.
How should fish meal be fed to heifers?
Is the use of fish meal recommended by
experts, and in what manner does it benefit
cattle? —B4o7.
It contains about 50 per cent, of protein
and is a valuable concentrate to feed cattle,
especially cows on lime-chewing country, as
it contains about 20 per cent, of phosphate of
lime. The oil should be extracted from it, as
it gives a fishy taste to the milk. It can
be fed mixed with other cereal meals, and
greatly benefits production after the grass
goes off in the autumn and winter, as it sup-
plies the protein and minerals lacking in the
feed. Not more than 21b. should be fed per
day.
Rearing pigs on the lines suggested by
“Bcndcc” (B. 18/6/’3O). (1) What area
is required to make a living, and size
of paddocks? (2) Must the paddocks
be rested periodically to recover from root-
ing ? _ (3) How many pigs? (4) Capital
required? (5) Is Dandenong district (Vic.)
suitable ? —8459.
(1) Fifty acres of good soil; paddocks,
1 1 to 2 acres for fattening; 7 or 8 acres for
sows. (2) Figs will root very little if fed
balanced rations. (3) 25 to 30 sows and
a boar. (4) £5OO renting land, £l5OO buy-
ing it. (5) Yes. Any place near one of
the large towns, such as Ballarat, Bendigo
or Geelong, would do.
(1) Could steep, rough ground be cleared
of paspalum preparatory to planting bananas
by grazing pigs on it, penning them in a
removable enclosure and moving them on
to fresh ground as each patch was cleared?
(2) Could large areas of thick paspalum be
poisoned, by spraying?— B2Bs.
(1) Not an effective method. (2) A suit-
able spray is sodium chlorate, lib. to a
gallon of water.
(1) What are the most suitable districts
in Australia for banana-growing? (2)
Acreage required? (3) Cost to buy or lease?
(4) If virgin bush, cost to clear? (5) Cost
of planting? (6) Time to plant or sow?
(7) How long before a crop is obtained?
(8) Capital required? (9) When cleared
and, planted, is extra labor required? ■ (10)
Has bunchy-top been stamped out? (11)
Wlwt teas the cause? (12) Is it likely to
recur? (13) At average price, what is esti-
mated return per acre? (14) Would the
Advances to Settlers Dept, supplement capi-
tal? (15) To what amount? —8034.
(1) Between Eumundi and Theebine (Q.),
on the North Coast line; between Lismore
(N.S.W.) and Mudgeeraba (Q.), on the
southern extremity; also along the Russell
River (N.Q.). (2) Lease, 10 acres; free-
hold, 100 acres. (3) Freehold, unimproved,
£lO to £4O per acre, according to location;
lease, £3 to £5 per acre p.a. (4) f 3 per
acre for scrub; £6 to £8 per acre lantana.
(5) Holes, 2d. each; plants, 30s. per 100;
435 plants per acre on alox 10 scale. (6)
October to December. (7) Eighteen months.
(8) £250 to £3OO. (9) One man can attend
to five acres only. (10) In the northern
district no bunchy-top is known to exist;
in the southern area mentioned bunchy-top
is being controlled. (11) Virus. (12) Always,
if bunchy-top plants are allowed to remain.
(13) About £7O. (14) On freehold only.
(15) Would depend on local conditions.
Is there a spray which will kill bulrushes
in bore drains? —8136.
Don’t know of any spray. The usual
practice is to plough them out, but when
drains become choked with them it is cheaper
to make a new drain than to attempt era-
dication.
I want to clear the water in a large exca-
vated tank for household purposes. What
chemical should, I use, and will it make the
water hard ? —8093.
Use lib. of ferric chloride per 1000 gal-
lons, or, better still, lib. of alumina ferric
per 3000 gallons. The treatment will not
harden the water to any great extent.
(1) Best kind of barometer for the middle-
west of N. S. Wales? (2) How to read a
barometer in that district? —Blo3.
. (1) The best type of barometer for general
use is the self-recording barometer. Failing
this, any good type of aneroid is suitable.
(2) The following general indications should
be used in conjunction with the weather
chart which appears in the press each day:
A gradual but steady rise indicates settled
fair weather; a gradual but steady fall indi-
cates unsettled or wet weather; a sudden or
unsteady fall followed by an unsteady rise
indicates local squalls and thunderstorms;
either a rapid rise or fall is associated with
strong winds and rapid weather changes;
a falling barometer indicates north to east
winds, and a rising barometer south to west
winds.
What conditions must be observed when
sending stud stock from Q'land to TV.A. ?
—8315.
Stud stock only can be introduced, and
must be accompanied by a certificate signed
by a Q’land Govt, veterinary officer to the
effect that the animals have been tuberculin
tested, also a declaration to the effect that
they have been dipped and are free from
ticks, tick fever or any other contagious
disease, and have not been in contact with
diseased or tick-infested animals for at least
six months. The stock must also have been
inoculated with pleuro-pneumonia virus
within three months preceding their intro-
duction. In the case of stock overlanded,
they must enter via Negri Creek or Cockatoo
Springs. If shipped they must be disem-
barked at Fremantle or Albany.
How to destroy borers m orange-trees?—
8059.
It is necessary to keep a careful watch
on the trees, particularly between December
and April, and should dying-back be noticed
the affected shoot should be cut away. If
the tunnel is disclosed, indicating that the
cut has been made too high, then the
amount of further pruning required may
be measured by inserting a piece of wire.
The material cut away should be burned.
By carrying out this method, the larvae are
dealt with when young and the amount of
damage reduced.
(1) Should geese be fed the same way as
ducks? (2) How long does a goose sit on
the eggs? (3) Any literature available? —
8158.
(1) Geese should be fed on bran and
pollard and cracked corn, but after the gos-
lings are a month old they will pick up a
good deal of food from pastures. (2) The
period of incubation is 28 to 30 days. (3)
The N.S.W. Agriculture Dept, issues a small
pamphlet free of charge.
I am starting poultry-farming at Woy
Woy (N.S.W.). (1 ) Can I sell chickens and
eggs icithout intervention on the part of the
Egg Board? (2) Is registration compulsory?
—8209.
(1) As you are situated within the board’s
area, you will automatically come within the
pool if you have more than 20 adult hens.
(2) It will be necessary for you to forward
your eggs to the board for sale, in which
case no registration is necessary. If, you
wish to sell eggs privately or to produce
chickens for sale, it will be necessary for
you to apply to the board for appointment as
a producer-agent, in which case you must
forward monthly returns showing your pro-
duction and sales of eggs, and contributing
the amount due ?by you to the pool.
(1) How long should fowl-yard manure
be kept before it is used on the flower or
vegetable garden? (2) Can it be used
heavily, and in lieti of other farm manures?
(3) A cure for warts on young turkeys? —
8074.
(1) Fowl manure can be used fresh only
if applied lightly to the surface of the soil,
such as between the rows of plants. It is
preferable to compost it before use. (2)
When composted it can be used much in
the same manner as other farm manures, but
lighter dressings are advisable. The quan-
tity would largely depend on the class of
crop and soil. (3) Preventive measures for
warts consist of administering sulphur and
Epsom shits alternately from early in
January to about May, the period over
which chickenpox is usually prevalent, or
later, if necessary. The method of giving
these medicines is to commence by using
sulphur in a wet mash every third day for
three weeks, the dose being 3oz. to each
bushel of mash, weighed before mixing. This
is then discontinued for three weeks and
Epsom salts is used instead in the drinking
water every third- day for three weeks, at
the rate of loz. to each gallon. During the
next there weeks the sulphur is reverted to,
followed again by the Epsom salts, and so on
each alternate three weeks throughout the
period mentioned!, If this treatment is car-
ried out carefully very little trouble should
, be- experienced with chickenpox. Any birds
affected with the disease'can be treated by
painting the sores with tincture of iodine,
or, in the case of the eyelids by rubbing over
them common laundry blue.
How to teach chickens to roost?— B32l,
Construct a platform 3ft. wide and 4in.
or sin. high along one end of their house.
The platform should be constructed of 3in.
by lin. hardwood battens placed loosely to-
gether on cleats, with a sloping board 7in.
wide along the front to prevent the chickens
getting underneath. After a few days, when
the chickens have become accustomed to
getting on the platform, the battens should
be spaced about half an inch apart by re-
moving a few. Later the battens should be
spaced wider apart, but not so much as to
permit the chickens to get underneath The
birds soon learn to roost, and as they get
used to the spaced battens proper perches
can be placed in position.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Bushman”: Instead of having to periodi-
cally clean out rubbish from your dams, try
putting up a small fence of some coarse dog
netting in the feeder channels. This will
block most matter, and all you’ve got to
do is to fork it out and set fire to it when
dry. Accumulation of rubbish means foul
water, too.
“Kripple”: Before using car or truck as
a stationary power plant it is prudent to
remember that within the differential casing
there are small gears which ordinarily come
into action only when rounding bends or
taking corners, and then with a slight semi-
rotary movement. Once one W’heel is locked,
with the other revolving, these gears are
given work for which they were not designed.
Should power be required urgently, with the
value of work to be done greater than the
price of new gears, plus fitting, go ahead by
all means —otherwise, don’t.
“Veracity”: I support “Kripple’s” warn-
ing as to the need for ascertaining the speed
at which a machine can be safely run (B.
23/7/’3O). AKalgoorlie engineer has lost his
life through an emery-wheel flying to pieces.
“N.A.K.”: It is worth while spending a
few shillings on a rubber-stamp with your
name and address for use on skin labels,
cream-cans and forwarding farm produce in
general. It makes easier work for agents
and saves your having to identify letters at
the post office.
“Bung”: A hard swelling on the leg-bone
of a horse usually means a splint. If it
does no harm it is best left alone; but
when lameness results blistering is the
remedy. A blistering ointment may be got
from any chemist. Clip hair from over
swelling, and with dripping-fat grease round
the spot but not over it. Then for 10
minutes rub in the blister. Tie the horse up
short to prevent his biting or licking the
spot when irritation sets in. After 24
hours wash the part gently with warm wafer
and apply a dressing of lard.
“Mander”: To revive old cracked harness,
apply a mixture of 2oz. of beeswax, loz.
of lamp-black and a pint of oil. To keep
harness in good condition, wash it with
potash water, and when dry apply harness
blacking. To keep the leather pliable, rub
tallow, lamp-black or waste oil on.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Pensioner, N.Q., good milker, wants home on dairy
farm.—B443.
Youth, Melbourne, wants job on station anywhere.
No exp., but good worker and anxious to learn.
—8405.
Oook-kitchenman, N.S.W., wants permanent job
country hotel or homestead. —8372.
Elderly painter, Sydney, graining and marbling,
seeks small j0b5.—8373.
Strong youth (S.A.), 17, exp. in farm work, used
to cows, sheep and pigs, wants work anywhere.—B3Bo.
English youth (W.A.), public school education,
wants job on station or in Pacific Islands.—B44s.
Wanted partner with £lOO for purchasing more
cows in established dairy G. Q’land coastal town.
Also partner with sufficient, capital to keep himself
18 months, partly improved banana farm. —-8447.
Grazier with property of 5000 acres, good climate,
no droughts, wants partner with £lOOO, or would
consider any proposition for good mate. —8500.
Mechanical engineer (50), wants job on station
or anywhere. Refs.- —8495.
Man, Vic., wants job as watchman, caretaker,
motor driver or storeman. —8485.
To hear from growers who have improvised a means
of threshing subterranean clover and who are willing
to furnish particulars.—7794.
Wanted for widower’s family, country N.S.W.,
housekeeper, Protestant, all duties, good home. —8487.
Painter, Sydney, can do all house repairs, wants
j0b.—8489.
To buy second-hand coQjes of law textbooks. —8425.
Wanted, in Melbourne, photo enlarger; Decca
and records part payment.—B446.
To buy Charnley’s “Romance of the Press” and
Bonwick’s “Early Struggles of the Australian Press.”
—8389.
To buy books by Phil May, Norman Lindsay, Price
Warung, Charles Rowcroft and Barbara Baynton.—
8334.
Youth (18), Sydney, G.P.S. education, wants job
aa jackeroo. Can keep books. Refs. —8463.
Youth (20), public school and agr. coll, education,
wants job on farm or station. —8474.
Ex-corporal A.1.F., Sydney, not afraid of bullets,
wants job. W'as in bank. Refs.—B4B2.
Whereabouts of Alfred Kerr, traveller, late of
Sydney, returned soldier. —8469.
Words of “The Grimble Grub.” —8505.
Words of verse “When Pietro Get da Feve.” —8441.
Information Sought.
(1) Value of agricultural implements ex-
ported by Australia, chief items of export,
best customers and what quantity were made
in Australia? (2) Value of fertilisers ex-
ported and best customersf (3) Value of
insectides, sheepwashes and disinfectmits
exported ? —8383.
(1) For year ending June 30, 1929,
ploughs and harrows, £9982; stripper har-
vesters, £4427; strippers, £235; other agri-
cultural, horticultural and viticultural imple-
ments, £26,505. Best customers, S. Africa,
M.L., Fiji and British E. Africa. (2) For
year ending June 30, 1929, £41,471. Best
customers, M.L., Pacific Islands, Ceylon,
Japan and Dutch East Indies. (3) £22,001.
Chief buyers, M.L., Pacific Islands, British
Malaya, Dutch East Indies and U.S.A.
(1) When and where was the totalisator
first used in M.LJ (2) When was book-
making made illegal in the Dominion ? —
8343.
(1) At Marton in the North Island on
January 1, 1880. (2) In 1910.
(1) I have been told that there is only
about two years' supply of Mark VI -303
ammunition available for rifle clubs in Aus-
tralia. Is that sot (2) Which is the most
accurate weapon, the L.E. long rifle, using
Mark VI, or the short service rifle, using
Mark VII t— Bl4B. .
(1) The secretary of the National Rifle
Assoc, of N.S.W. has no official information,
but understands that present supplies are
likely to be exhausted in 1932. (2) At dis-
tances beyond 600 yards, the short rifle is
reckoned more accurate. For shorter dis-
tances the long rifle is preferred.
Does the deep-water frost-fish approach
the shore for the purpose of depositing its
spawn in the winter months? —8322.
It has been stated that it does so but no
proof is available. It is probable the fish
is forced by abnormal conditions up from
the depths that are its natural environ-
ment, is rendered helpless by the sudden
lowering of outside pressure, and is caught
in the waves and cast ashore. This sugges-
tion is supported by the fact that specimens
have been observed wriggling helplessly in
the water before being stranded, and have
fallen victims to sea-birds while struggling
in the surf.
How is the proposal to erect public abat-
toirs at Brisbane progressing f In the event
of their being established will there be a call
for labor, particularly slaughtermen?— B37l.
An existing meatworks (Swift’s) has been
purchased for conversion into public abattoirs.
The works will not be taken over until the
conversion has been completed, which will
probably take six months. There will be little
call for outside labor, as the slaughtermen at
present employed in the private slaughter-
yards and the regular employees of Swift s
Mill have to be absorbed.
How much has been granted by the Fcdci'al
Government as a bounty to the flax indus-
try? Under what conditions is the bounty
granted? —B3S2.
The Flax and Linseed Bounties Bill 1930
provides for bounties for five years from
March 11, 1930, on flax and linseed produced
in Australia from locally : grown flax plants of
the genus Linum usitatissimum. The rates
of bounty are to be 15 per cent, from March
1, 1930, to Feb. 29, 1932; 10 per cent, from
March 1, 1932, to Feb. 28, 1934; 74 per cent-
from March 1, 1934, to Feb. 2, 1935.
t Must a motor-truck used for carting cane
across private property in Q’land be regis-
tered?— 8370.
Not if it is used solely on private property,
and a statutory declaration to that effect has
been made.
(1) Where can I get training in wool-
valuinff, -classing, etc.? (2) Fee and length
of time required to become efficient? (3)
What are the prospects of employment after
completing course? —Bl2l.
(1) Sheep and Wool Department, Sydney
Tech. Coll. (2) £5 ss. for each session. Full
course is two sessions of six months each.
Attendance daily. (3) At present no more
favorable than for any other sort of work,
but generally speaking it commands good
pay.
(1) Is Kingsford Smith on the army
reserve list? (2) If war broke out, could he
be called up for service? (3) What rank
would he hold? (4) What is the value of his
late promotion to Wing-Commander? (5)
Why has he, flying for commercial purposes,
received a military promotion? (6) Has any
British flier, after making a non-military
flight, received the D.F.C.? —7756.
(1) He is on the reserve list of the Citizen
Air Force. (2) Yes. (3) Rank would be
determined according to vacancies existing
at the time. (4) It is honorary, and carries
no pay. (5) It was in recognition of his
achievement in crossing the Pacific and of
his valuable services to aviation generally.
(5) No. It is an active service award.
(1) What is a helicopter? (2) Are there
any in Australia? —Bl74.
(1) A flying machine which is supported
in the air by vertically mounted power-
driven airscrews. The forward speed is
derived by a horizontally mounted airscrew.
(2) No. There are no successful helicopters
anywhere in the world.
What is fireclay? Will any fine clay do,
and what treatment of it would be necessary ?
—B2Ol.
It is a clay containing a high percentage
of silica or alumina, with an attendant high
fusibility. Ordinary clay contains alkalies
which are fusible at a low temperature.
There is no economical method of separating
the alkali content from an ordinary clay.
Test your fine clay for fusibility. That is
the only test of suitability.
’(I) What schools did the members of the
Australian cricket team go to? (2) List
of opening partnerships in. Test matches of
Hobbs and Sutcliffe that yielded over a cen-
tury ? —8215.
(1) Primary schools in most cases. (2)
1924-25, in Australia: 157 (first Test), 283
(second*) ; 1926, in England: 152 (second),
156 (third), 172 (fourth) ; 1928-29, in Aus-
tralia: 125 (second), 108 (fourth) ; 1930, in
England: 125 (second).
Do fishes possess a sense of hearing? —
8276.
The matter has been the subject of a
great deal of controversy on the part of both
anglers and scientists. What may be called
the “ear” in fishes functions as an organ of
equilibrium, as it does in all vertebrates.
In addition, the fish, unlike other vertebrates,
have sense organs in their skin—the “lateral
line system”—that are very susceptible to
vibrations. It has been proved that minnows
and other fish can distinguish between
various musical notes, but whether they use
their “ears” or other senses in doing so is
a moot point.
(1) Did Enver Pasha, Minister of War in
Turkey, approach Russia just prior to Tur-
key’s entry into the Q-reat War with pro-
posals for a Russo-Turlcish alliance? (2)
Is it a fact that Britain refused to use the
knowledge obtained by tlie English Naval
Mission stationed at Constantinople in 1914
in her naval operations against Turkey?
—8273.
(1) According to a Russian official war
document, Enver proposed such an alliance
on August 5, 1914. on terms that apparently
were not acceptable. (2) According to the
British “Official History of the War” (Galli-
poli”), the Admiralty “determined to utilise
the local knowledge of Admiral Limpus, the
chief of the mission, by appointing him to
command the Dardanelles squadron, but... .
this order was subsequently cancelled on the
ground that it would be unfair and unduly
provocative to employ a man who had just
acquired an intimate inside knowledge of
the Turkish fleet.”
In the event of riots and rebellion within
a State, can the Federal Government inter-
vene for the protection of the State or its
citizens on its own volition? —Bl3o.
The question comes under Clause 119 of
the Constitution: “The Commonwealth shall
protect every State against invasion and, on
the application of the Executive Government
of the State, against domestic violence.” The
clause was copied from the Constitution of
the U.S.A., and Quick and Garran, in their
textbook on the Commonwealth Constitution,
argue, on American judicial rulings, that a
request from a State Government is not
necessary to warrant Federal intervention if
the “domestic violence” interferes with “the
operations of the Federal Government, or
with the rights and privileges of Federal
citizenship. Thus if a riot in a State inter-
fered with the carriage of the Federal mails,
or with inter-State commerce, or with the
right of an elector to record his vote at
Federal elections, the Federal Government
could use all the force at its disposal, not to
protect the State, but to protect itself.”
Clause 51, sub-clause VI, of the Constitu-
tion empowers the Federal Parliament to
make laws with respect to “the naval and
military defence of the Commonwealth and
of the several States, and the control of the
forces to execute and maintain the laws of
the Commonwealth.”
I have built a three-valve Reinartz receiver
but cannot make it oscillate, although I can
pick tip local stations fairly well. Can you
tell me why this is? —8319.
Failure to oscillate may be due to (a)
insufficient turns on the reaction winding,
(b) reaction winding reversed, (c) coupling
between grid and reaction winding too loose,
or (d) insufficient detector plate voltage.
Conditions (a) (e) and (d) should be of
just such a value as to cause oscillation
throughout the range of the tuning dial.
(1) Are the mangrove-grown tidal creeks
of N. Q’land suitable for oyster culture?
(2) How is the spawn propagated? (3)
What is the spawning season in N.Q. waters?
(4) Books or leaflets on the subject?— Bl34.
(1) No definite information available.
Ostrea glomerata, the only species cultivated
for market purposes, is found as far north
as Port Douglas, but so far as is known
has not been cultivated north of Port Curtis.
The occurrence of freshes is not much of
a handicap, but a big rise and fall of tide
is, especially in tropical waters. (2) Man-
grove sticks or stakes are arranged in
bundles or rows so as to form a natural
catchment for the spat, which is free-swim-
ming. (3) Normally, during the summer
months. There are usually several spawn-
ings during the season. (4) T. C. Rough-
ley’s report on “The Oyster Resources of
Q’land,” obtainable from Marine Dept., Bris-
bane.
Under what conditions are commissions in
the British Army granted , to Sydney Uni.
students? —B3o3.
The candidate must reside for three
academic years, and qualify for a degree in
any faculty but the medical. If he passes
with first-class honors he will be entitled
to one year’s seniority, lie may obtain a
. commission in the infantry or cavalry, in the
Army Service Corps, and in the Royal Artil-
lery, by qualifying in certain branches of
mathematics. He must pass through the
military curriculum during his Uni. course,
and be attached to permanent forces for six
weeks in each of two consecutive years, and
must pass a qualifying examination set by
the War Office in military subjects, in which
the military curriculum will instruct him.
He must pass a medical examination, of
which the chief features are: height, at least
sft. 2in. at 18, with 34Jin. chest, good eye-
sight, hearing and speech and sound physical
formation.
(I) What is the distinction between co-
operation and capitalism? (2) Is there
any instance in which co-op. principles have
been successfully tried?— B29s..
(1) In terms of modern sociology the dis-
tinction is that “co-operation” is a pooling
of labor or the savings of workers, or (most
generally) of both, to prosecute some
undertaking for mutual profit, whereas
“capitalism” employs savings from any
source and pays laboy a rate based on an
intention to give those who provide the funds
a rental or “interest” for the use of their
money. The object of “co-operation” is to
secure that rental to the actual workers in
the enterprise. (2) The principle has been
applied in varying degrees, and (outside
Britain) with most success in Maoriland,
where the farmers’ and more particularly
the dairy-farmers’ co-operative societies and
companies play an important part. The dis-
tinction between these concerns and purely
capitalistic enterprises, however, tends to
vanish as time goes on. Dr. J. B. Condliffe
in his recently published book, “N.Z. in the
Making,” says: “The most notable case was
the' construction of a tunnel near Wellington
under the leadership of R. Semple, formerly
the organiser of the Federation of Labor.
His party underbid private contracting firms,
paid high wages, provided excellent working
conditions and finished the job in good time
with substantial profit.”
(1) What position did J. Webber hold with
Captain Cook on his voyages? Where was
he born, whom did he marry and where did
he live after he returned? (2) What data
can be procured from the Mitchell Library
about him? —8237.
(1) He was the artist who accompanied
Captain James Cook on his third voyage, and
was born in London about 1750. His father
was a Swiss and spelt his name Weber.
Webber died unmarried in London on April
29. 1793. After his return on Cook’s last
voyage he lived in England. (2) The Mit-
chell Library has a photograph of a portrait
of him that is in the Berne Historical
Museum, and advises that the best bio-
graphical account is to be found in the
Dictionary of National Biography, Vol. 60,
page 112. The Library has also in the Dixson
Collection some water-color sketches made by
Webber on Cook’s voyage, and has also his
engravings of portraits of Cook and of pic-
tures made on the voyage. Odd references
are to be found in Kitson’s “lafe of Cook,
Corney’s “Quest of the Tahiti,” and similar
works.
How did prickly-pear get into Australia? —
8323.
Some species of prickly-pear were intro-
duced into Australia for cochineal-growing
by Governor Phillip in 1788. At a later
date some species were introduced into Cen-
tral Q’land for the sake of their edible
fruit. Owing to its drought-resisting quali-
ties the pear was intended to serve as fodder
for stock in dry seasons. Specimens of
prickly-pear were sent to Moreton Bay in
1824 by the then Colonial Botanist, Charles
Fraser, “for the use of settlement.”
How do ventriloquists achieve the effect
of appearing to speak from some place . dis-
tant from them? Any books on the subject?
—18413. „ . • ,
The words are formed in the normal
manner but the breath is allowed to escape
very slowly, the tones being muffled by nar-
rowing the glottis and the mouth opened
as little as possible. The tongue is retracted
and only its tip moves. Gestures and facial
expression are employed to aid the illusion
that the voice comes elsewhere than from
the ventriloquist. Only book in English we
know is Russel’s “Ventriloquism,” but the
subject is touched on in many handbooks
on conjuring and entertainment.
Does Anybody Know?
Where can I get a dog trained to run
dingo tracks? Breed, and price?— Bso3.
Brief Answers.
C. 8.; You may destroy the bees on your
own property, but may not enter your neighbor’s....
M.F.: There is no difference in standard time between
Sydney, Coonamble, Melbourne and Hobart. When
it is 6 p.m. in Sydney it is 4 p.m. at Perth and
5.30 p.m. in Adelaide... .A.K.H.: Latest estimates
are, Sydney 1,242,640 inhabitants (State Statistician’s
estimate Aug. 6, 1930), Melbourne 1,000,000 (Dec.
31, 1928), Glasgow 1,034,069 (1921) 8.A.: Yes
it was named after him. See R. Cockburn’s “Nomen-
clature of South Australia,” page 34.. . .G.R.8.:
Yatala (S.A.) is a corruption of the native word
Yertala, the free meaning of which is “inundated.”
Much of the country to which the name was applied
was subject to flooding by fresh and salt water....
G.H.: Boxthorn can be destroyed by pulling out
with horses when the land is in a suitable condi-
tion. .. .S.M.; £3500 p.a. is shown as being paid
by the Imperial authorities to the N.S.W. Govern-
ment for this purpose. See Constitution Act, No;
32, obtainable from Govt. Printer, Sydney, 9d
M. : The world’s record equine high jump is
held by Great Heart, which cleared Bft. 13-16 in.
at Chicago (U.S.A.) on June 8, 1923... .H.C.:
According to Lloyd’s Register the total tonnage of
steamers and motor-ships of the world in June,
1929, was 64,408,000 gross tons. Of this total Great
Britain and Ireland had 20,046,000 gross tons,
U.S.A. 11,036,000 .(sea) and 2,451,000 (lake), and
Japan 4,187,000 L. V.L.: The farm book-keeping
series'! published on “The Man on the Land” page
is now available am booklet form. Price, 6d.
plus postage... .A.G.M.: Carr and Stevens’s “How
to Speak in Public” (3s. od.), - Cecil’s “Toasts
and Speeches” (Is.)/ Gilmore’s “How to Make a
Speech and Propose a Toast” (15.),.. .R.W.C.: Bush
Book Club of N.S.W., 161 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
... .C.M.H.: (1) .“A Curate in, Bohemia” (Is. 3d.),
N. Bookstall Co., Sydney., (2) “Redheap” has
been refused entry into Australia by the Customs Dept.
.... A.D. (Westmead) : N.S.W. Gliding Club, 28 Bond-
street, Sydney. !. .H.T.: Full details of ensilage by
the pit < method are given .in a pamphlet obtainable
free from N.S.W. Agriculture Department. .. .J.T.E.:
We are not allowed to give information concerning
sweeps conducted outside the. State... .A.J.F.: Write
Prof. H. Tasman .Lovell, Sydney University
S.J.: Cost of graduation in architecture at Sydney
Uni. is:.Matriculation, £3 ; First year, £42; Second
year, £42; Third year, £42; Fourth year, £2B;
Fifth year, ' £‘2B ; degree, £lO. . Total, £195
D.H.F.: The blue clay occurs in many parts of Aus-
tralia, and'is hot in itself an indication of diamonds.
.. .. J.M.: It is immaterial what type of kiln is con-
structed so long as it will heat the bricks to the
necessary temperature... .D.C.: Only particles in
suspension can be removed by filtration. Salt is in
solution and cannot be so removed. .. .T.K.: K. L.
Poulton and Co., Martin-place ; Harry Hopman, 40
Martin-place; Jones and Joseph, 235 Clarence-
street; and Plumpton and Roberts, 52 Carrington-
street—all Sydney.... J.M.A.: Try Producers’ Distri-
buting Society, A r alentine-street, Sydney. .. .T.R.:
Douche your nose and gargle your throat with salt and
water. You should consult a specialist... .W.8.T.:
N.S.W. Railway employees with a knowledge of first-
aid do not receive extra payment C.S.; The
usual practice to prevent ringbarked trees from
dying is to promptly apply a clay plaster to the
wounded area, bandaged with hessian... .J.M.: Ask
Henry Disston and Sons, Gibbens-street, Camperdown,
Sydney, to send you free pamphlet containing in-
structions for hammering and adjusting circular saws.
T.G.: (1) 70 to 75. (2) A quarter is a heaped
measure of eight bushels. A quarter of English
wheat is reckoned as 5041 b. (3) You would do
better if you used specially-prepared showcard
colors; Boz. glass pots can be got at 3s. each from
leading stationers D.M.: Barium sulphate is used
as a pigment in paints, and is known as “permanent
white.”, It can be obtained pure from manufacturing
chemists at 3s. per lib., and in cruder form from
paint merchants at a lesser price... .5.0.5.; No
openings outside the service for some time to come.
.... Cam: Can’t say. Suggest you write to the
lady, care Fullers Theatres, Ltd., Elizabeth-street,
Sydney... .R.G.: Until the sale day following the
tenth day after impounding provided notice was
served on owner; otherwise on the sale day following
the 24th day where notice has been sent by post or
given by advertisement. If you keep stock beyond
the lawful period you cannot recover payment for
the over-plus. .. .W.E.8.: The municipalities of
Muswellbrook and Queanbeyan are the only T. 8.-
free cattle areas in N.S.W. at present H.T.: (1)
Haven’t a record for all games. In Test matches,
39 n.o. in Sydney. (2) 1900. January, 1902....
H.V.P.: Write Director of Recruiting and Organisa-
tion, War Office, Whitehall, London... .Oakleigh: (1)
If the land is otherwise liable tp be charged with
the cost of street construction, it is not exempt
because of being a charitable institution. (2) Each
separate allotment as assessed must bear the amount
of charge assessed to it, and such is a charge on the
land until paid. The Council could not accept
allotments of land in lieu of payment J.A.:
Write S. H. Kuhn, Texas Co., Box 2004, G.P.0.,
Wellington, M.L J.R.: The warehouses advanced
their prices on July 16 last.... J.D.: A hawker’s
license does not confer a right on its holder to go
on private property against the will of the occupier.
. . T.S.B. and A.C.W.: See “The Writers’ and
Artists’ Year Book” (published by A. and C. Black,
London) A.G.E.: Make direct application to the
.various shipping offices. .. .E.W.: The N.S.W. Indus-
trial Arbitration (Amendment) Act rescinded all
awards covering employees in rural industries as
from December 17, 1929. One of the awards so
rescinded was the Pastoral Employees’ (State)
Award E.A.T.: A royal commission gives
authority to take evidence on oath, and perjury
committed by a witness before the Commissioner
is an indictable offence A.T.: Ask Registrar of
Wills, Attorney-General’s Department, Dublin
H.W.A.: Should you desire to continue the mortgage
it will have to be renewed when it falls due. The
renewal could be for the reduced amount C.T.L.:
Prospects are no brighter in either place... .A.G.8.:
Write Chief Librarian, Mitchell Library, Sydney
M. ; Chief Secretary’s Department, Sydney, will
supply you with a list of N.S.W. districts in which
there is an open season for wallabies W.N.S.:
N. Department of Labor and Industry is of the
opinion that an operative baker receiving the award
rate for a baker may be employed to cart two short
deliveries without extra payment, provided the worx
is done within his ordinary working hours as a
baker. .. .R.R.M.: From Cowles and Dunn, 453 Kent-
street, Sydney, £4 10s J.C.: Forward full par-
ticulars including dates of the transactions to Taxa-
tion Department, Sydney, and you will receive a
direct reply R.S.: (1) If you want an Air Force
billet, apply to Secretary, Air Board, Melbourne.
If you wish to beeome a civil pilot, apply Aero
Club, 112 King William-street, Adelaide. Minimum
age of applicant, 17 years. Medical certificate re-
quired. (2) For civil aviation, Aero Club’s Aero-
drome" at Par afield, 11 miles out of Adelaide
F.K.: Mauri and Thomson, Brisbane. None at Towns-
ville. (2) Yes. (3) Under normal conditions 10
days! In cool store, at 40 degrees C., three weeks.
... . (Many others mailed.)


M
A
m
<
wmzm
'sm
*?«
s:s
»
1
■Hi
ggsss
How Motorists Hypnotise
Themselves
“So*and-So Oil is good enough
for me. Yve run my hus on it for
twelve or eighteen months and Yve
never struck trouble ”
nnHE motorist who says "So-
•*- and-So Oil is good enough”
has hypnotised himself into
believing that the efficiency and
economy of a motor oil can be
judged by the car’s immediate
behaviour.
He will come out of his self-
imposed trance when after
fifteen or twenty thousand miles
—he sends his car in for overhaul
and has to meet the bill!
If you knew how greatly your
lubricant affects the value—and
life—of your car, nobody could
induce you to change from
Atlantic.
For certain very definite reasons*
Atlantic Motor Oil gives amazing
protection against depreciation.
Almost any good lubricant will
give you five thousand miles of
smooth running—but it takes an
exceptional oil to save what Atlantic
saves!
m*
'
The waxy impurities which cause deterioration in the majority of lubricants have been
whirled out of Atlantic Motor Oil by a special and exclusive process, with the result that
neither friction, heat nor pressure can break its protective film. Add to this the fact that
Atlantic has a pure paraffin base, an amazing resistance to heat and crankcase dilution, and
absolute freedom from evaporation, and it is obvious that the economy of Atlantic is
exceeded only by its durability.
The Greatest Car Insurance known.
ATLANTIC
PURE PARAFFIN BASE
MOTOR Oil*
"THE RUNNING MATE OF UNION SUPER SPIRIT”


urtjnfgd
WHEN MAKING YOUR WILL
REMEMBER THIS
MANY men believe that in making their will they are
bequeathing their whole property to their dependents.
In actual fact this is not so. Probate tax makes a
heavy inroad into many bequests. To overcome this difficulty,
the P. & C. Probate Assurance was evolved. It provides the
ideal solution, pays for probate tax, obviates forced sales and
provides adequate money for dependents during the long assess-
ment period. Discuss the matter with their representatives or
write to: —
PRODUCERS £/ CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OJF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: H. Pell.
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
Agency Co., Ltd.
YSTERS
TEWARTISIAND
Warns®
WM.
Vto
A
;vi-y
.v*r :
te-
rn.
m
ms
a:#
•->55;
A;
%m
V/S.
fete
...the finest flavoured
oysters in the world/
From Stewart Island of New Zealand
come to us the world’s most succu-
lent oysters...in cans that bear the
label“St George" Carefully chosen
and immediately canned in their own
liquor— thus is preserved the luscious
flavour of each of the 2 doz oysters
that are found in the. large tins
Served straight from the can. they
are as succulent and tasty as the
finest oysters, freshlv gathered—yet
infinitely cheaper All leading
grocers sell ST GEORGE OYSTERS
Irvine & Stevenson’s St. George Co. M
Ltd. Dunedin, New Zealand, j
3
TO
'/////,
w
4
r#i
4
m
4
r
%
m
wm.
m
%
4*
m.
m
M
m
m
##
4
%
ujn
SMOKEK-OH!
SOCIAL NOTE.
(From an Island Correspondent.)
The chief invited the mish to dine,
And the tribe turned tip in force;
But the meal was ruined for the divine
When a neighbor informed him, with eyes
aslvine,
That he wasn’t a quest, but a course.
¥ ¥
“ ‘What should be done to a man who rack-
rents under the clock of religion?’ demanded the
preacher. ’ ’ — “Sun. ”
We would be inclined to tick him off.
CHANGE OF TUNE.
“Will exchange table model gramophone for
modern pram.”— “J.C.” in “West Australian.”
The table model must give way;
No more we’ll listen to our gram.
A cradle model wants his say
And wants it in a modern pram.
SOMETHING LIKE AN INVESTMENT.
“Remember, young man, civility costs NOTHING, and sometimes
you get in return a hundred times more than you pay
for it.”
“Yachtsmen may suffer from the new taxation.”
— “Sun.”
By way of the sales tax. of course;
* ¥
“This new Federal taxation is just legalised
burglary.”— Edmund Jbwett.
You may lock the bedroom windows, you
may double bar the doors,
And insure your goods and chattels to the
full;
You may have the latest burglar-bells laid
underneath the floors
And beseech co-operation from the “bull,”
Though you sleep with a revolver ’neath
your pillow every, night,
There’s one precaution that your pro-
gramme lacks:
Legal burglary is rampant. Thugs like
Scullin slay on sight.
You cannot dodge the lethal Income Axe.
¥ *
“Mr. W. M. Hughes can be bitterly vituperative,
but his bitterness often recoils on himself.”— Political
opponent.
In that case, if Billy were a lady, we
would say she should start putting her rouse
in order.
¥ *
THE VOICE OF HISTORY.
(From the Sydney Press of 122 years ago.)
“Unlicensed Victuallers’ Gazette”: Wow-
ser Bligh, N.S.W.’s notorious prohibitionist
Governor, was visited yesterday morning, by
members of the newly-formed Empire Loyal-
ists’ Liquor Enforcement League. The
Loyalists met at the rum depot of the
People’s Idol, Jack Macarthur (Froth-
blowers’ Assoc.), and, led by popular Capt.
Johnston (Three-bottle Club) and gallant
young Lieut. Minchin (Minchinbury Vine-
yards), marched in columns of fours, fives,
sixes, etc., up the middle of Pitt-street (more
Qr less) with occasional halts for refresh-
ment. With tossing banners bearing loyal
slogans such as “Rum Rules the Brave,”
“Aussies Never Shall be Sober,” etc., they
presented an inspiring spectacle. A servant
informed them that the Governor was under
the bed. “The old bloke says Jackie Mac-
arthur’s booze is dead crook,” explained the
man. “He’s afraid he’ll have to drink
some if h'e comes out.” “Drag him out (hie) !”
cried Lieut. Minchin, who was slightly under
the influence of the grape. The Governor
appeared presently with a couple of con-
vivial leaguers and, after a single glass of
the fiery spirit had been forced upon him
by his open-handed callers, fell senseless. At
that moment Constable Nark, who was
present in evening-dress, disclosed his iden-
tity and took the names and addresses of all
who were able to speak. So much for our
vaunted liberty!
“Reeliabites’ Jour-
nal” : The military
topers Johnston and
Mineliin, accom-
panied by the rum-
selling ex-tailor Mac-
artlnir and a dis-
orderly rabble of in-
ebriates, broke into
Government House
yesterday at 10.30
a.m. Our heroic
Governor, whose
watchword is
“Sobriety and the
Open Bible,” was
more than a match
for them. Finding
Lieut. M in c h in
under his (the Gov-
ernor’s) bed in a
state of bestial in-
toxication, he
dragged him out,
and handed him over
to Constable Nark.
Addressing Ma c-
arthur scornfully as
“C h o o m” and
“Pommy,” he bade
him leave the
premises. “As for
you,” he said, turn-
ing to Johnston, “I
shall draw the atten-
tion of the R.S. and
S.I. League to your
condition. For an
ex-Digger to get into
such a state on
eleven rums is a
disgrace.” More is
likely to be heard of
the episode.
“SquifPs Weekly”:
Asa God-fearing
Aussie born in Lon-
don and bred in
M.L., I am in
a position to take a broad, right-thinking
view of recent occurrences at Government
House. Both parties were unquestionably
right: both were indubitably wrong. Our
LOOK OUT FOR SENSATIONAL
EXPOSURE OF REV. MARSDEN
NEXT WEEK. INSIDE DETAILS
OF ABOMINABLE GOINGS-ON
AT PARRAMATTA RECTORY.
Governor goes pony-racing; Captain John-
ston and friends support the liquor trade;
all read Squiff’s. The scandal will therefore
be left unventilated for the time being.
However, when the time is ripe the facts
APOLOGY.
THE MRS. BROWN WHOM WE
EXPOSED LAST WEEK WAS
NOT THAT ONE BUT ANOTHER
LADY OF THE SAME NAME.
shall be exposed frankly and fully, as is
our wont.
“S. M. Herald” : A number of prominent
citizens paid formal courtesy calls on his
Excellency to wish him bon voyage on his
impending return to the Homeland. Amongst
those who- signed the Visitors’ Book at
Government House Lodge were Capt. Johns-
ton and Lieut. Minchin, of the Barracks, and
Mr. J. Macarthur, of Pitt-street.
10-2-4.
* fe-
ll ey diddle, diddle, the cat and the fiddle,
The cow’s jumped over the moon!
Is there hope, do you think, of the milk we
drink
Coming down with the animal soon?
“We should put our best into Canberra.”— Ex-
Commissioner Goold.
But we have—£lo,ooo,ooo of it.
AS IT WILL BE
IN THE END.
The Tr e a surer
wishes it to be
understood that the
new Marble tax will
apply to folly-taw,
big-ring and three-
holes only.
The Bud get pro-
vides for increased
revenue from; Toll
bars (minimum
charge Is. 6d.) to be
established at all
lovers’ walks through-
out Australia.
Moonlight tax
(single males and
females only) at 2s.
the hour.
Income tax to be
advanced from 17s.
Gld. to 18s. in the £.
Wheel tax (Td.),
on dolls’ perambula-
tors, go-carts, billy-
carts and scooters.
Dog tax (£25 p.a.)
to take in dry dogs
and gay dogs in
addition to bottom
dogs.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS.
Horace Blinker (Slug-
urbia) : Yes, if the boy’s
pocket-money exceeds
6d. per week, a return
must be furnished....
Blowbags, M.L.A. (Bluff-
ton) : No; better leave
personal exertion a blank.
Consult solicitor about
the bribes Mrs. Billo
Baggs (Waterloo) : The
bottle tax amounts to ninepence in the shilling
on the sale of all your empties... .Weary
(Pinchgut Parade) : Impossible to secure membership
in any of the suicide clubs owing to heavy waiting
lists. Why not start one on your own?... .Anxious
(Worryville): (a) The springboard tax at the Gap
has been increased 50 per cent, (b) Rough on rats
or lysol.
NOTICE.
Owing to the heavy impost on full-stops, commas
and colons, Disgruntled Newspapers, Ltd., have been
reluctantly compelled to advance the price of all
papers, including the “Daily Giggle,” from 4s. Cd.
to ss. per copy.
D. McM.
¥ ¥
PUTTING THEM ON THE MAP.
To counteract the unpopularity politicians
have incurred recently by their taxation
measures, ballyhoo specialists have been
imported from Hollywood. The work done
CATCHING HIM NAPPING.
THE LOVER: “Why are you so anxious for me to speak
to your father to-night? I can see him at the
office to-morrow.”
THE HEIRESS: “Oh, but his judgment is always so keen
in business hours.”
for Mr. Bavin by Boosts Inc. has been mucl
admired: —
NAT. ANNOUNCERS’ DOPE.
Folks, meet Tom (“Buddy”) Bavin, the best bei
that ever seeped into Nat. politics by the Tndo
HARDLY ANY CHANGE.
ACTOR: “Farewell, Madam. I suggest that you will find it difficult
to get the talkies to pay your board-money.”
LANDLADY ( a talkie enthus iast ): “Yes, it will be just like old
times, won’t it?”
pendence route. Tom is an up-and-coming angling
champ.—and then some. lie holds the world’s record
for landing the biggest trout (a 127-pounder) ever
caught on a bait-line. He fought throughout the
World War as an Admiral in the Marines, earning
his n.c.o.’s stripes side by side with Pershing’s
immortal boys at the Battle of Hamel. It takes
five stenogs. to handle his fan mail since he gat
his Sales Tax going. Thex-e’s popularity for you!
MERCHANT TIE-UPS.
Most of you Tobacconist Guys carry fishing-lines.
Get a dead porpoise, stuff, paint with trout spots,
and write underneath: “Trout caught by Premier T.
(‘Buddy’) Bavin on one of our No. 10 silk twists.”
It’s a wow.
Boot Tie-up. —Show a pair of old Oxfords marked
“Worn by ‘Buddy’ Bavin, the Boy Friend, in the
Marines.”
There’s a bully Song Tie-up, too, in “I’se Alius
Dreamin’ of Yew, Otto Boy.” Feature in window
display.
Mr. Lang’s publicity is being
attended to by the eminent
firm that made Clara Bow
world-beloved: —
FOR USE IN PUBLIC HALLS.
Here he is, fans, the cutest,
niftiest, reddest, hardest-hitting,
doggonedest, two-handed scrapper
that ever made old Hindenburg
shudder, and won a cheer from the
Doughboys theirselves. You Labor
guys up there in the bleacher seats,
pipe Cap. Lang, formerly in com-
mand of his Maj.’s Regiment of
Life Guards Blue, and now in politics
for his health, and yours. Old
Aussie’s next Premier! Rah ! Rah!
Rah!
Big Bill has fought for Demo-
cracy’s Sacred Cause on a thousand
bloodied fields, but he remains what
he always was—just a simple, great-
hearted Mother’s Boy. Folks, you’ll
be tickled to death by him.
SELLING SUGGESTIONS.
Hire unemployed Rothbury miner.
Build imitation mine for him in
King-street, the Hotel Australia
Wi mer Garden, or other suitable
spot. Get miner to stop passing
electors and say : “Bill Lang made
mo what 1 am.” This is a sure-
fire vote-getter, provided those
accosted are sufficiently dumb.
If you like compo board cut-outs
what could be sweeter than a life-
size still pasted on wood of the
Cap. in uniform (any movie usher
will lend one) saluting sky-high
wages with one hand and national
solvency with the other? The dear
old Red Rag as a background, and
the Union Jack waving proudly o’er-
head. This cheap yet attractive
tableau may be placed in all church
porches, in halls of leading clubs
(such as the Union, Australian, etc.)
and in public parks, provided the
authorities make no objection.
Max F.


u-
'mi
I i J
m
a
Q
O <
/ ■-- -
|YI *- I
gf\|GLA!N
;
~ •
iKi
in
U>
IffllP^
’ V
If; / '**£ -; -t* /
NOW
h
9
FIVE
FOR
Made and Guaranteed by tbe Auto Strop Safety Razor
Company, Ltd., 197-207, City Road, London, England.
New shaped holes allow seventeen per
cent, extra weight giving ‘hollow ground’
rigidity for first time with two-edged
safety blade. Manufactured from one
long ribbon of steel; ground, honed, j
finished in one single continuous opera- jf
tion —so that every blade MUST have
the same perfect edge, Probak blades
fit two-edged safety razors. Sold every-
where at fixed prices —1 /9 the small a
packet, 3/6 the large. /
wonderful invention in
new two - edged safety
blade • made in
the ribbon there-
fore uniform in
quality* buy
PROBAK
BLADES
1
1
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181, CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
New Zealand Agents: VAN STAVEREN BROTHERS, LTD., Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch.
Q
□
B
Thousands of Australian Families are enjoying
the benefits of an efficient Hot Water Supply
throughout the Home by means of
Ideal Domestic Boilers
Why not
You?
Hot Water Always on Tap
In Bathroom, Kitchen and wherever con-
nected up, at very low cost, is what an
Ideal Installation means in a Home—A Hot
Bath for One Penny—No waiting for the
Water to heat—and abundance of Hot
Water always for other Domestic Uses.
fguj
A
24-Hour
Day
Service
i
Ideal Domestic Boilers
Are supplied in sizes suitable for any size
of Home, Hotel, Guest House or Public
Institution. The leading Experts of Europe
and America testify as to the practical and
highly satisfactory operation of these Boilers
under most exacting conditions.
EXPERT ADVICE FREE.
We supply complete schemes and specifications entirely free of cost. All
we require is a plan of the building. See our Heating Department,
Melbourne or Sydney.
Q,
iimimmiiiinii
iiiiifiifiiiiinid
i JOHN
&SONI
niiiniiiiMiiiiiiiiir
Vlllllllllllllllllltllv
pT
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE,
Cl
AUSTRALIA’S
BEST SELLERS
STEELE RUDD’S HUMOROUS STORIES
Back at our Selection
Sandy’s Selection
Kayton’s Selection
Stocking our Selection
Book of Dan
The Old Homestead
The Poor Parson
The Rudd Family
Me an’ th’ Son
Dad in Politics
Duncan McClure
For Life
Grandpa’s Selection
Memoirs of Corporal Keeley
On an Australian Farm
On Emu Creek
On our Selection
Our New Selection
ARTHUR WRIGHT’S SPORTING NOVELS
A Colt from the Country
A Game of Chance
A Rogue’s Luck
A Rough Passage
In the Last Stride
Over the Odds
The Breed Holds Good
Under a Cloud
A Good Recovery
BUSHRANGING STORIES
• CHARLES WHITE
Ben Hall
Captain Moonlite
Gardiner, King of the Road
John Vane, Bushranger
Martin Cash
The Kelly Gang
AMBROSE PRATT.
Three Years with Thunderbolt
Dan Kelly, Outlaw
CLEVER and ENTERTAINING
DOUBLE-BED DIALOGUES - - James Henry James
Bulletin Book of Humorous Verse and Recitations
Spring Cleaning ----- Thomas Spencer
Why Doherty Died ----- Thomas Spencer
PRICE, ONE SHILLING
POSTED, 1/2
SPFCIAI •
A CURATE IN BOHEMIA,
By NORMAN LINDSAY , the author of REDHEAP .
- Price Posted, 2/2
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
MARKET and CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY


This is a group of Stuart Crystal. It is the
product of Stuart s of Stourbridge, England
— makers / in bygone days / of much of the old
cut glass that is most highly prized to=day.
It is not a whit less beautiful\ this modern
crystal from the original glass works / but,
unlike the antique glass / it is priced within
the means of other than wealthy collectors.
The name Stuart is etched on every piece.
32
P
m
■Mg
< >
\'-V, , >'&
H
„>Zs=i
■
■SWISS
1
I
m
m
m
g|3 £"!
ttwef
tot
English Mand=made (Crystal
Obtainable wherever beautiful glass is sold.
KIDNEY TROUBLE
BEATEN BEFORE THE DAY STARTS
Out of bed with a
grumble —back aching
through the day, pains
in muscles and limbs,
rheumatic twinges—be
warned, Kidney Trouble
is undermining health!
Another day of pain and misery another day when the mere
thought of work fills you with loathing another day just to
struggle painfully through instead of living it every hour with a keenness
and joy in the daily tasks and a zest for pleasure.
Do you not “wonder ” sometimes wbat really is the true cause of your
chronic ill-health ? No doubt you, as thousands of other sufferers, have
endeavoured to spur up your system with heart-exciting drugs, or
endeavoured to cleanse the body with strong and eventually weakening
purgatives. Maybe for the chronic backache you sometimes endure, the
burning rheumatic twinges that torture you, you have rubbed ointments
and lotions into your skin —and with what disappointing results ?
We wish it were possible to show you the thousands of letters from
clergymen, clerks, farmers, housewives, miners, soldiers, sailors, indeed,
from every class, who tell of health restored, chronic suffering ended
—thanks to “De Witt’s.”
There are two things, however, we can do. We ask you to go to your
own chemist and get his candid opinion of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
£
Pills. He can show you and tell you all about the prescription clearly
printed on each box, and why it is so good for the troubles that arise
from kidney disorder.
Then, again, he can tell you about our definite guarantee. Purchase
your 3/6 bottle, or the larger, more economical size, 6/6. Take two pills
at night, one before mealtimes. In 24 hours from the first dose, you will
see (from colour of urine) they have started their health action. If this is
not so, return partly-used bottle to the proprietors and your money is
refunded in full. That is our faith in this remedy that the public have
tried and trusted for over 40 years.
Are you going on with another day of pain and weakness, beaten before
the day starts? Surely, with our guarantee before you, you will not
hesitate, but give De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills a fair trial ? Many
have said that after just a few doses their pain has ended and, what is of
greater importance, those whom De Witt’s Pills have restored to health
have been able to write months afterwards to say that never has the old
pain come back, never have they felt so fit and vigorous in their life.
DeWITTS PILLS


MODEL FLYING AEROPLANES
A POPULAR AND FASCINATING HOBBY AND SPORT
THE WALTHER “SWALLOW.
WALTHER MODEL 'PLANES
Sturdy models with spruce frame
and silk-covered wings. Guaran-
teed to fly. Neatly boxed, with
full instructions how to fly.
The “Wasp.” A junior model,
with 1 Bin. span, 7/6. Post: 1/3;
Queensland and Victoria, 1/9.
The “Swallow.” 23in. span,
12/6. Post: 1/3 ; Queensland and
Victoria, 1 /9.
The “Eagle.” A large model,
28in. span, 15/6. Post: 1/6;
Queensland and Victoria, 2/3.
WE ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR WARNEFORD MODEL ’PLANES.
These Models, now so popular in England, have Spruce Frames with Silk-eovered Wings and
Shock-absorbing Chassis.
THE WARNEFORD “MOTH” JUNIOR MODEL, 18in. span, 7/6. Post: 1/3; Q’land and Vic., 1/9
THE WARNEFORD “DEMON,” 23in. span, 13/6. Post: 1/3; Queensland and Victoria, 1/9
THE WARNEFORD “RACER,” a twin rubber motored model and large 31in. wing span, 30/-
Postage: N.S.W., 1/6; Queensland and Victoria, 2/3.
BUILD YOUR OWN MODELS.
KIT NO. 1, to build the Walther “Wasp,” with plan, instructions and all materials except glue, 4/-
Postage, 1/-
KIT NO. 2, to build the Walther “Eagle,” 7/6. Post: N.S.W., 1/-; Queensland and Vic., 1/3.
Croid Liquid Glue, 9d. tube. Write for list “B” of materials for models.
WALTHER $ STEVENSON, LTD., 395 George St., Sydney
,000°
#1778
NSC2
r
[N
1950
ATestthats
lasted over
150 years
A "test” lasting over 150 years has
definitely established the outstanding
excellence of GUINNESS as a health-
giving beverage.
Generations of men and women have
proved its splendid nutritive and recup-
erative properties—sportsmen through-
out the world rely on Guinness as a
strength giver and body builder. More
recently over seventeen thousand Doc-
tors have tested Guinness, and their
testimony confirms the general opinion.
Guinness
IS GOOD FOR YOU
N.B.—One pint of Guinness Foreign Extra Stout has a malt carbo-
hydrate content equal to one and a half pints of pure dairy milk.
| AAA GF/A/K6 t
Poverty
Point
“Cine Ma”: Coburg (Vic.) council’s muni-
pal talkies, mentioned in The Bulletin,
are paying. In seven weeks £lOO profit was
made and paid into unemployed relief funds.
“O. Kay”: There has been a call at
Hollywood for a male “ghost” with good
strong teeth. His job was to gnash his
teeth for the villain of a talkie, who couldn t
do it to satisfy the director.
“Philm”: Mr. Forde has been out-cen-
soi’ed. Outbi’eaks against the “Merchant of
Venice” have culminated in a Jewish Society
having Shylock banned from schools in parts
of America.
“The Ghoul” : Dead-heads ! A chap booked
two stalls; by mistake he was handed three
tickets. The error was noticed at once and
marked on the plan. At night he turned
up just before the performance, presented
the thii’d ticket at the window, said he
would want only two seats, and asked if
this one that he did not want could be sold
for him. It was pointed out that the seat
had not been paid for by him, and had
since been sold. He was highly offended.
“Smilax”: Among the donations received
by the Valentino Memorial committee for
the establishment of a monument in honor
of Rudolph was £lO fi’om a group of Too-
woomba (Q.) admii’ers. When the same
Bananaland town was erecting a memorial
in honor of its own special poet, George
Essex Evans, local support was so inadequate
that outside aid had to be sought.
“Jacky Roo” (Lond.) : Frank Harvey’s
Australian lighthouse drama, “Cape For-
lorn,” is to be made into a tri-lingual talkie
(English; French and German) by E. A.
Dupont, who made “Atlantic.” Harvey will
play the leading role, as he did in the stage
version. Australian Dorothy Seacombe and
Fay Compton are candidates for leading
lady. Dorothy Mackail wanted £20,000 and
Evelyn Brent £lO,OOO to do it —sums which
staggered the English concern. A Cornish
lighthouse will pi’obably be requisitioned.
“Cut”: The most surprising thing about
the talkie version of “Journey’s End,”
reported (B. 13/8/’3O) to be faultless in
detail, is that it was made in Hollywood.
Its leading man, Colin Clive, is of English
stock, but was born in France. Of the other
principals, one was an Australian—comedian
of the piece Billy Bevan, of Oi'ange
(N.S.W-), who has been playing in pictures
for about a decade.
“Aix-Les-Coogee”: Henrietta Watson,
playing in London the part in Molnar’s “The
Swan,” created by her in N. York, has several
links with Australia. She was Miladi in
“The King’s Musketeer” with Cecil Ward
as D’Artagnan, when she revealed a dazzling
white shoulder in the rather shocking scene
(for those days) in which the brand of the
fleur-de-lis is discovered. Another link is
her l’omantic correspondence with one of Aus-
tralia’s earliest V.C.’s —Jimmy Throssell,
son of recently deceased George Throssell,
ex-member of the W.A. Ministry. Jimmy, on
an errand of mercy to a sick boundary-rider,
discovered a newspaper clipping about Hen-
rietta, wrote to her with boyish enthusiasm
telling how he had found the paper in one of
the far-flung posts of civilisation, and founded,
under a nom de plume, a coi'respondence that
continued till he went to the war. Wounded,
in hospital, he was visited by Miss Watson
who still knew him only as the mystery man.
No, Throssell didn’t marry Henrietta
Watson. Under the romantic circumstances,
however, it isn’t surprising that he wed a
novelist.
“Prog”: Beatrice Grimshaw lately told the
Papuan “Courier” what she thought of the
movie “The Adorable Outcast,” adapted from
a novel of hors:—
The many rather objectionable features contained
in the film find no place in the original. An author
has no control over the film-producer who buys his
work, and in many cases it has very little resemb-
lance to the story as first written when it appears
on the screen. The girl Luya does not appear in
“Conn of the Coral Seas” at all, and there is no
trader’s daughter. The blackbirding of native girls
is also imaginary.
Still, though she goes on to further slash
the “absurdities and unpleasantnesses,” she
b as a good word to say for the photography.
“Playback”: Leslie Pearce, one of the
several from this part of the world to be
doing well in the director business at Holly-
wood, sang with the N.S.W. State Orchestra
(under Verbrugghen) and on the concert
platform before he joined up with Fullers
and appeared in revue and musicomedy. His
last appearance here was in “Rio Rita,”
opposite Gladys Moncrieff in Melbourne. He
arrived in Hollywood (without any movie
experience) at a time when the talkie pro-
ducers were crying out for stage talent.
“L.H.P.”: “W.G.A.” (B. 13/8/’3O) is
correct re Harry Jewett’s ’Frisco experiences,
but later on the Maoriland actor made good.
He was leading man to Julia Marlowe, and
supported Fanny Davenport, Ada Rehan and
Viola Allen. He built up a big Slxakspook
l-epertoire and turned it to account in 1914,
when he occupied Boston Opera House for a
season of the Bard. In 1916 at the Copley
Theatre, Boston, he started the most glorious
phase of his managerial career. There his
stock co., including Leon Goi’don and Con-
way Wingfield, the latter here with Meynell
and Gunn, became almost famous. About
seven years, ago Jewett was forced to
evacuate the’ Copley and take another theatre,
pending the completion of a new Rep. theatre
in Huntingdon-avenue. He quickly got into
financial ti’oubles, the outcome of which was
that his players were reorganised by one
Clive, and returned to the Copley. When the
new Rep. was opened by Jewett in 1924, the
Copley co. was well established, and the
rivalry was heated. There being no room
for two rep. companies Jewett’s show went
under, and the theatre is now given over
to the talkies. Financially Jewett’s greatest
managerial success was “The Man Who
Stayed at Home,” produced at the Copley,
after a New York'failure. Americans say
his best role was Maldonado in “Iris.”
Though as producer..at his best in handling
modern English plays, he had never, cur-
iously enough, set foot in Fogland.
“O. Kay”: Frank Hurley, whose “South-
ward Ho with Mawson” is being exhibited
by Union Theati’es under arrangement with
the Commonwealth Government, is no ama-
teur picture producer. He has at least two ex-
cellent feature productions, “Pearls and
Savages” and “H’ound of the Deep,” to his
credit. “Hound,” a genuine “romance of
the tropics,” featured a real man-eating
shark actoi\ Some of the marine shots were
wonderful.
“Cauboy”: Madame Mary Conly, who was
Mrs. J. Jarrett in private life, still had her
golden voice when she died at Ivanhoe
(Vic.) the other day. Twenty-five yeai’s ago
there were some who believed she would
rival Melba, and she had one notable tour in
England, when she sang at the Albei’t Hali |
and through the provinces. She was short
and stout and oratorio was her specialty
She. was a constant Christmas annual in
Sydney for many years, and her soprano was
as good for youthful as for venerable roles
111-health had forced her into retirement for
a good many years before she died.
“Stephen Sink”: The legit, still has it all
over the talkies when it comes to kissing.
The filmoguls have spent the best part of
a mint trying to get talkie osculation that
won’t raise a snigger, and, to the censor’s
relief, have ruled kissing out. All the best
kissers of the old silent days have failed,
their lip-meetings raising howls of tnirth
even when the ensuing sound is compara-
tively mild. When a really first-rate kiss
reaches the audience as a report from a
small cannon, Chaplin’s funniest bits fade
into insignificance. As a result every ex-
hibitor will tell you that, whereas the old
silents were packed with ’em, in the flapper
sense there isn’t a real lover left on the
screen. And that’s the worst - that can
happen to the box-office.
“Aisle Seat”: Bill Faversham, imported
by Tallis and the Taits, •on his way back to
America told the Auckland press that Hugh
J. Ward and Hugh D. Mclntosh were the
greatest showmen in Australia. The worst
bit of showmanship Fav. might have urged
against his own managers was his own
importation. Fav. picked his opening play,
“The Prince and the Pauper,” and his second
piece, “The Hawk,” and both were obviously j
dated. So far as he, personally, was con- !
cerned the same might be said. It was j
evidently difficult for even the best-informed
of the theatrical papers of the States to !
believe that Faversham could possibly be
playing in Australia, since “Variety” reported
that “at the Theatre Royal, Sydney, ‘The
Prince and the Pauper,’ an old silent film
featuring William Faversham, has proved
a flop.”
The Palette
“The Ghoul”: Bertha Bennct Buideigh’s
picture (B. 6/8/’3O) re senseless or inappro-
priate names for pictures reminds me of
two pictures that hung in an Australian
public gallery for yeax-s, bearing the wrong
names. One, entitled “The Execution of
Mary Queen of Scots,” was a picture of
Queen Elizabeth washing the feet of the poor
on Maundy Thursday. The other was sup-
posed to be “Van Dyck and His Ten Children.”
Van Dyck left only one baby daughter, who
was baptised the day he died.
The exhibition of Geoi’ge Lambert’s pic-
tures culled from private sources by the Mel-
boui’ne National Gallery covers the artist’s
whole career, from his early wash work to
some of the latest portraits. The middle
period, which produced “Chesham-street,” j
the study of a doctor examining a patient, j
was Lambert’s best as a painter. It fol-
lowed on a visit to Spain, when the genius of
Velasquez temporarily overawed the show-
man and brought out the sincerity that was
in Lambert. Later, when he returned to Aus-
tralia and was hailed with uncritical adula-
tion as a supreme artist, the showman re-
emerged and remains very obvious in all his
later pictui’es. One can almost hear Lambert
saying with every brushstroke, “This is going
to knock ’em!” It was in such a mood that
one Douglas Fairbanks, film actor, recently
tackled Shakspeare. Lambert’s later work
is more irritating than impressive, more
spectacular than convincing. It is full of
grave faults of observation, mot in the least
concealed by the extremely dexterous draw-
ing! It would be rash to prophesy, but
Lambert may be more reverently remembered
for his brilliant illustrations for the “Lone
Hand” and The Bulletin than for his more
ambitious pictures.
The Inky Way
“Lao-dah”: One of the most striking
things about Australian daily journalism is
its almost total lack of humor. With few
exceptions the great dailies rigidly exclude
the comic from their pages except on Satur-
day, when a professional humorist is turned
on in a special column, the machine-made
quality of his wit being painfully apparent.
This would argue that the local jounialist
is a heavy fellow, whereas everybody who
knows him is aware that the contrary is
the case. Often I have sat at a public
function alongside a young reporter who has
kept me grinning with liis asides, though
his subsequent account was a model of dul-
ness. The reason is, of course, that editors
and proprietoi’s ordain that their journals
shall be, not serious, but solemn. Some
years ago the readers of a leading Melbourne
daily chuckled hugely at a description of a
street incident which ended in a brilliant
flash of humor. They did not know that
at the same time the High Command of the
paper was in panic-stricken conference with ;
the offender on the carpet. He promised not j
to offend again, and he hasn’t. When the j
need to let himself go becomes overwhelm-
ing, he sends it to 214 George-street.


Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOOTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. ~ 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
ryfgjfgh
Southern Business Men
Should Concentrate on
QUEENSLAND!
The Queen State has less unem-
ployment than any other State in
Australia, and it is confidently anti-
cipated that she will be the first one
to regain prosperity.
The spirit of optimism is amongst
her farmers, growers, and land
owners.
You cannot afford to ignore this
market, and the most profitable way
to sell goods in Queensland is to ad-
vertise them in Queensland’s Oldest,
Biggest, and Finest Newspaper—
-oFhe Brisbane Courier
the Paper with the Largest Circulation.
Published by :
THE BRISBANE NEWSPAPER CO., LTD ,
Queen-street, Brisbane. ’Phone 82991.
Sydney Representative : Robert D. Fisher
74 Pitt-street. ’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative. L. S. Marks,
The Argus Building, Elizabeth and Latrobe
streets. ’Phone F 3906.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Woman’s Mirror
Published every Monday
PRICE 3 d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
Dependablef
tM
E
Si
■JP
Ml
rr_
BRIDGING ALL SEAS
0
jfgjytjryjn
UNKING CONTINENTS
U.S.A., CANADA, EUROPE,
via the South Seas
Hawaii Fiji Tahiti—
Raratonga—New Zealand
Through Bookings with
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE.
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co.—Brisbane—Pertl
fgdh
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN
AND UNION ROYAL MAIL UNIS
m
B* 3
Sunny South Sens
Enchanting Trip to PAPUA via BRIS-
BANE, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS, and
the glorious WHITSUNDAY PASSAGE
inside the renowned Great Barrier Reef.
Smooth Water Sandy Beaches—T ropi.cal
Scenery—Volcanic and Coral Islands—Quaint
Native Villages and Customs-—Rest, Change
and Variety.
THREE WEEKS’ TOUR.
Fare, £4O to £44, Return.
Apply for Pamphlet No. 52/P to •
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and
ADELAIDE.
Read “B.P. Magazine,” richly
illustrated in color.
1/- Copy, All Newsagents.
fdhfdg
BANK. OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
Witb which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
jhtj
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150.000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
588 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world*
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP - £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND-
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: «7. R. DRYHVRST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Huddart ParkerLlM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
CollinsStreet, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney,
si
rt«*'
a
*
«♦*
«**
***
to«*
w e
!r57
A pictorial
guide to
America
Fascinating this new booklet
illustrated with latest pictures of
San Francisco, New York, Yosemite,
Grand Canyon, Niagara Falls and
other famous places of the United
States. It tells how easy it is to
travel across America when you go
back home. Free to those planning
trips to England. Call or write for
your copy.
* Oct amic SteamshipCq
„ MATSON. LINE
Dept. Ml 7. 12 Bridge Street,
Sydnfey. Tele.: B 7981.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
fgdjy
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Officer 44 Bridge Street, Sidney.
XTbe
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent. <
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion" is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from —
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
50
ON SALE AT
ALL
NEWSAGENTS
EACH WEEK.
Subjects Weekly.
ALSO COLORED PICTURES
WORTH FRAMING.
“The Australasian”
The Paper all Australians appreci-
ate, and their friends overseas, too!
THE PATRIOT
■DIREC^EDjUM^WOMEN|
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep*: H. C. HINCHCLIFFB*
2 HUNTER STREET.


When they most
need it . . ♦
Leading fruitgrowers in all fruit-
growing districts use Sulphate of
Ammonia in varying quantities from
1 cwt. per acre upwards. A Drouin
(Vic.) orchardist who produces
excellent export apples uses 1 cwt. df
Sulphate of Ammonia
per acre, scattered over the loose soil
and harrowed in when the trees are
blossoming. Sulphate of Ammonia
acts quickly and assists the trees just
when they most need it.
Sulphate of Ammonia is now
cheaper than ever. Ask your usual
fertiliser agent, or packing shed or
association secretary to order for you.
Our agricultural service is at your disposal gratis.
NITROGEN FERTILISERS PTY. LTD.
360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
All the Best is in the West,
And the best thing in the West is
“THE BARRIER MINER”
newspaper, the Great Western Daily
with the wonderful history.
Such a medium for Advertisements!
If any illustration in “The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
BIRKMYRE’S CLOTH
(Regd. Trade Mark.)
In addition to “BIRKMYRE’S CLOTH” be-
ing a Registered Trade Mark the following
are also Registered Trade Marks, each com*
plete in itself.
“BX” "H" “S” and “K"
“L” “OM” “M” and "N”
Any one of these marks will protect your
interests
Th * COUROCK Export Co. LTD.
379 Keut-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Charlotte-street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders-street, Melbourne, Vie.
AN INEXPENSIVE
BLADE RAZOR GUARD
f x •
With this simple, nickelled guard the Plum or any other blade razor is converted
into a safety razor of the most efficient type. No “dragging”.... all the velvet
keenness of the hollow-ground blade is preserved. Sent post free to any address.
Suitable for fin., 4 in. and gin. blades, 27-
PLUM RAZORS—Post free.
Neatly packed in satin-lined single or double cases.
Black Vulcanite Handle, each 12/6
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle, each 15/6
Real Ivory Handle, each 21/-
7-day Sets—7 Razors in Case—Black, 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory, 140/-
Each Razor ready set for use and kept in order for two years free.
Other Specialities—Post Free.
PLUM Strops, each, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6
Strop Dressing, per* tube 1/3
Shaving Cream, Giant Size, tube, 2/-
Shaving Tablet, Round, each .. . 6d.
Witch Hazel, After-shave Liquid
Cream, bottle 27-
Oil of Roses Hairdressing, bottle . 1/3
Crystallised Brilliantine, jar .... 1/3
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to knov
ill
Flashlights <‘ RadioTubes
ELECTRIC TORCH
With the
ROTOMATIC SWITCH
The GREAT Battery Economist
The constant purchase of
batteries is due in no small
way to the light being turned
on accidenaltly .The
ROTOMATIC SWITCH in-
sures you against waste of
batteries Always lights
when you want it. .... .
Positive prevention against
accidental battery discharge.
Manufacturer’B Representative
W. C. SCHWAB
Box 1821, G.P.0.,
FRENCH BATTERY CO.
CHICAGO U.S.A.
K 3
A A
A A
SHADOW SHOWS.
In “The Big Pond” at Sydney Prince
Edward, Paramount’s talkie-builders have
set out to devise a stage for the display of
Maurice Chevalier’s charms; and a very
comprehensive job they have made of it.
His upper front teeth must be bared
and his prognathous jaw thrust forward
in that bright smile which so thrills
the ladies, so he has a comic part. His
light, melodious singing voice must be heard,
so he carols often to the heroine and others.
And he must wring all hearts with boyish
pathos, so he has troubles to face and con-
quer in the capacity of an impoverished aris-
tocrat in sordid surroundings.
Barbara Billings (Claudette Colbert plays
the part with great charm) is the only
daughter of a chewing-gum manufacturer.
She loves Maurice, and the gum-magnate
gives him a job in the hope that he will
mess it up. Far from it, of course. Maurice
invents a new kind of gum, composes songs
to advertise the firm’s products, and wins
the respect and affection of Mr. Billings.
The revulsion of the daughter at liis virtu-
osity in commerce leads to an unexpected
finish.
The plot doesn’t dovetail, but that only
means, probably, that our censors have been
hacking it about in purity’s holy name. The
small cast —with George Barbier outstand-
ing as Mr. Billings—is about as good as
a light-comedy cast could be in any language,
and it has one of those fascinatingly natural
children (Elaine Koch by name) that
America has the knack of producing. The
sound-projection is superb
* V- &
“Crazy That Way” (Fox-Movietone), at
Sydney Regent, is a fast-moving comedy of
American manners, with credible characters
in credible surroundings. Joan Bennett
(with a much stronger accent than she had
in “Disraeli”) is idolised by the lads of
her village; and more especially by Regis
Toomey, of the fatuously engaging grin, and
Jason Robard, who on this occasion is a
noisy, self-assertive young pest. Jason bluffs
her into getting engaged to him, and the
laughs are produced by the misery of Regis,
the hatred of _ the callow rivals, and the
eventual chucking of Jason. She becomes
crazy about Kenneth Mac Kenna, a hard-
working young engineer who despises her,
and tells her so—and very good psychology,
too. Mac Kenna’s sudden infatuation for her
is not so easy to swallow.
The film is meritorious if only because of
the unpretentious lives, clothes and manners
of the characters. The fight between the
jealous boys is very realistic: they perform
as amateurs always do in such circumstances.
This is the first screen-scrap for many a day
in which neither party delivers a knock-
out, hit that would do credit to a pug in hard
training. Lumsden Hare gives a finished
display as the much-rushed maiden’s father.
# * *
About 80 per cent, of Britain’s society
talkies have two irritating peculiarities: all
the men are soakers, and many of the ladies
are dowdy. In “The Hate Ship,” which
arrived at Sydney Haymarket the other
night, the amount of time wasted pouring
out and carting round liquor and smoking
and stubbing cigarettes is an artistic crime,
and so is the heroine’s shoulder-knot. Other-
wise it isn’t a bad picture of the mechan-
ised murder class. “The Hate Ship” is
a yacht owned by Vernon Wolfe (Jameson
Thomas). He is a crook with financial
designs on one of his guests. A friend of
the prospective victim comes along disguised
as a valet to frustrate the crook, and falls
in love with the shoulder-knot lass. She
has a mid-Victorian passion for singing to
her own accompaniments, and as a gun in
the smoking-room is attached by wire to
one of the legs of the ship’s piano, and goes
off when a certain note is struck, tragic
events occur.
The photography is up to the best Holly-
wood standards, the sound effects are good,
and English is spoken by all. The older
men are a delight to the eye and ear, but
the two younger ones are what the Yanks
call “pansies.” Their bleating voices and
girlish ways are very trying.
“The Isle of Escape,” the other picture
on the Haymarket bill, is expensively pro-
duced and cast (Betty Compson, Monte Blue
and Noah Beery are among the performers)
and pathetically bad. All the old island
scenic effects and situations are there, plus
an unusual amount of bellowing and booze.
* ¥ *
“Metropolis,” by the German UFA people,
has been resurrected in a Bourke-street
theatre and prompts some random re-
flections. It wears pretty thin in places,
considering it was hailed as the screen
epic of the year when it first appeared. ;
Most of the performers behave like
grand-opera tenors. If they spoke, what they
said would have to be ridiculous to suit their
actions. Speech has improved the screen in
that direction. With speech has come a |
fresh element of realism. It is doubtful i
whether allegorical themes like “Metropolis”
will regain their vogue. Symbols on the
vocal screen would have to speak with the
tongues of angels. It would be difficult to
imagine anything more boring.
The leading lady in “Metropolis,” as used
to be inevitable, is very pretty. Most pretty
girls are poor actors —vide the legitimate
theatre. Margaret Bannerman was the most
beautiful woman to appear on the Australian
stage last year, but she was not the best
actress. The talkies, it is refreshing to note,
are bringing back the plain woman, presum-
ably because plain women have more intellig-
ence than pretty ones. They have to develop
other charms than Nature gave them, and
more intelligence is demanded in a talkie.
Most of the great silent screen goddesses
who have vanished into limbo did so because,
even if they were literate enough to read
their parts, they had not the intelligence
to understand them.
The great merit of “Metropolis,” which
is a picture of the world of the future
wherein men have been mechanised by the
machines they tend, lies in the effective
groupings and the dramatic use of masses
of light and shade. This makes it a revolu-
tionary tract of the first order. The talkies
have lost this sort of primitive appeal.
Speech tends to appeal more to the mind
than the emotions.


St
report over 75%
of '^Australia's leading Sport Stores
'
4- . I
■ $
An* ‘I 1 T
AV) ' - - *'•'
*W
The Kro- Flite Mesh Multi-
Dot Golf Ball. Took first
and three next places in the
last Australian Open! In
plain Mesh and Multi-Dot
j/6 each.
: TT A D a great day. Did the twelfth—par
■*■■■*' four—in three. Oh ! What a drive. Took
my No. 6 to the green and landed dead for a
three-foot putt. Just couldn’t go wrong.”
Keen to beat par, golfers demand the best
ball—and over 75% of Australia’s leading
sport stores report “Spalding golf balls the
biggest sellers.”
Spalding Kro-Flite—bullet speed —
leather toughness
Balata-—the dried juice of a South American
tree —is combined with gutta percha in Kro-
Flite’s vulcanized cover. It will not cut or
crack —it is as tough as leather.
11l
m
:
\
i m
>
■
§
;
i
*
;■
*;
**
m
■
if
■
■I
In exploding a ball from a sand bunker—the club head does not contact with the ball, but hits hard
into the sand behind. Above is seen Rufus Stewart — ex-open champion and present professional
champion of Australia—exploding a ball from a sand bunker at Kooyonga, S.A.
!/
KROFLITE
Topped! Kro-Flite alone with-
stands the viciously topped shot of
the Spalding ‘ ‘ Guillotine' ’ — a
weighted knife which drops on a
ball and reproduces exactly a top-
ped iron shot. In thousands of
tests carried out it has severely
gashed every other ball. It can
only slightly dent Kro-Flite. It
can't cut it. You can t cut it.
a
Kro-Flite is a ball of energy. 200 yards of
tightly wound rubber thread keeps its lively,
semi-liquid core truly centred, preserving its
perfect balance. That’s why Kro-Flite putts
accurately —drives with bullet speed and
precision.
Multi-Dot markings magnify
Kro-Flite Mesh Multi-Dot looks larger than
the plain ball. It’s easier to hit—easier to
identify. In red, blue, green, and black mark-
ings which show clearly at ten yards distance.
Spalding “Par,”, the phenomenal champion-
ship ball and the only ball made specially for
Australian conditions—Price 3/6.
The “Sunshine”—a ball with excellent
playing qualities —Price 2/6.
Spalding Golf Equipment —from all Pro-
fessionals and Sport Stores.
54 years of progress make Spalding the
largest actual Sporting Equipment Manufac-
turer in the world. A. G. Spalding & Bros.
(N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd., 352 Kent Street, Sydney,
N.S.W.
jmyiry
A n unconditional
guarantee
We absolutely guarantee replace-
ment of any Kro-Flite ball (whether
plain or Multi-Dot) that is cut
through or becomes unplayable for
any cause whatsoever ;in 72 holes
of play.
Shafts of finest hickory—wood heads
of selected persimmon—irons of drop-
forged English mild steel. Every
Kro-Flite Registered set is num-
bered. Quote the Registered number
and add or replace clubs as you
wish. They match .
Kro-Flite Clubs mean perfect timing
Perfect timing means better golf
Your car suffers if the timing is wrong
—so does your golf.
In Kro-Flite Registered Clubs—
the relationship between head and
shaft in clubs—between clubs in sets
—is perfect.
Each club is a balanced unit. Each
set is a balanced unit. Your timing is
the same for every club. Exact varia-
tion of the angle between head and
shaft automatically determines your,
distance from the ball with each club.
Exact variation in blade pitch gives
every club a definite distance. Regis-
tered Kro-Flites are checked and
graded, throughout manufacture.
Every club in a set feels, balances
and swings the same. They match.
Spalding makes special clubs for
ladies correct in length balance
r —weight.
Indexed Kro-Flite Irons are
matched in two groups of swinging
weights. Rust-proof heads. Set of
7> j£B/i 5/-; set of 5, jQ6/ 5/-; single
clubs, 25/- each.
The “Crescent,” a fine medium-
priced club, has many Kro-Flite
features. Woods, 25/- each; Irons,
Rust-proof, 17/6 each; or
for a set of five.
The “Thistle” is the finest low-
price'club obtainable. Woods, 17/6
each; Irons, 10/6 each. All quota-
tions are for hickory shafts.


LEFEVER NITRO SPECIAL HAMMERLESS
LEFEVER NITBO SPECIAL
PRICE
£7/15/-
WONDERFUL VALUE IN DOUBLE-BARREL GUNS.
O.K.’D AND PURCHASED IN QUANTITIES BY U.S. NAYY.
How 6 !!! 1 T>S U r 18 made t 0 Sh ° ot right ’ and throws a Pattern superior to many guns much
iiigiici in price.
‘fiv it° ) de f g i led b; j he , best gu T akers in Ameriea > and gunsmiths .the country over
feay it is the best designed lock ever put in a gun. The first lock was snapped over 77 000
* y es f ’ an<l n . the A rst Letever Nitr o Special Gun was fired about 10,000 times without a break
A Lefever Gun won the World s Championship at the Olympic Games in London.
the name Lefever on a gun has stood for service and durability for 50 years
The best gun ever offered for anything near the price. Made in 12, 16, 20 and 410 gauge.
“WHOEVER SAW A BROKEN LEFEVER?”
Va
PTV. LTD,
THE GUN PEOPLE,
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
When selecting a Sporting Rifle inspect
' I
Winchester Model 56
Magazine Rifle
Using 22 cal. Long-rifle
Cartridges only.
Price, £5
post fre^
hjrdy
Write for Leaflet B.
Spare Magazine,
5 capacity, 5/6 extra.
10 capacity, 6/6 extra.
The Gun House,
COWLES <a DUNN
453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Two Maoriland horses that had run badly
at Rosehill on August 16 redeemed their
reputations at the same course on Satur-
day. Limerick’s brother, Dunraven, ridden
by an unknown jockey, Humphries, and so
little fancied that twenties could be got,
won the first division of the Granville Stakes
from Fred Williams’s liakata (10 to 1)
with a bit in hand. He was to have been
sent back across the Tasman if he failed to
show -form; now his A.J.C. Derby prepara-
tion is to be continued. However, his per-
formances on this side are more suggestive of
the in-and-out Roscrea, here two seasons ago,
than of Medley’s really great offspring,
Limerick and Ballymena. The other to make
good was In the Shade, but the market
anticipated his improvement-—he went out
favorite for the August Handicap, which
he won.
Eaglet was the early favorite for the Dundas
Handicap, seven furlongs, though Pentheus,
Goshawk (who lost his rider) and Fuji
San were co-favorites with her (at fives)
before they w r ere sent away. Don Moon, who
had beaten the mean-looking mare at level
weights in the Flying Mile seven days before,
drifted to twenties, though the difference in
weights was only 51b., the jockeys being the
same. It was remarkable betting, but, as
it happened, neither was prominent at the
finish, which was confined to Pentheus,
Fuji San and Waugoola (6 to 1). Pen-
theus, now a very handsome horse, got home
by a length or so from Waugoola in the
smart time of lmin. 25sec. ; but game little
Waugoola had done most of the chasing of
Fuji San, who got a break on the big field.
Some of the starters were just out for a
gallop with the colors up.
Ridden a waiting race by Bagby, In the
Shade (7 to 2) cut down Sunflare (4 to 1)
in the last furlong of the 11 over which the
August Handicap was run and was three-
quarters of a length to the good at the finish.
The time was 2min. 19sec., which is very
fast for Rosehill, and naturally In the
Shade ha& come into favor again for the
Metropolitan. However, Vertoy took a lot
of the go out of Sunflare by battling with
him for the lead; and then she missed a
place, Exact, an improving mare, being
third. Vertoy is a good sort, but she is being
run out of her distance. A mile would suit
her better.
Tiring at length of trying to win six-
furlong races with him, Papworth, who owns
and trains Black Douglas, gave him a run
in the Parramatta Mile. The change of
policy was justified, for the big Rossendale
gelding, backed from tens to sixes, got up
in time to beat Ring Boy, a good welter
horse, and give Johnston (who was on
Pentheus) his second winning mount for
the afternoon. Raasay, showing his first
glimpse of form for many months, came fast
and cut Marshon out of third place.
Goldminer (2 to 1) was first home in the
first division of the Three-and Four-year-old
Handicap, hut was placed second for inter-
ference with Gibsontea (6 to 1). Chemosh
was backed for this race, and showed pace
for six furlongs. Brazenface (7 to 1), an-
other three-year-old, won the second division
from end to end, recording lmin. 25Jsec. for
the seven furlongs. Second to him was
Citamon (6 to 1), who has been doing con-
siderable things in the country. Brazenface
is a flier, but racing men say he will not
stay. He is a brown gelding by Cistercian —
Cool Lady.
* * * *
If rain keeps off the A.J.C. will have a
wonderfully interesting meeting at Warwick
Farm on Saturday. Phar Lap, Nightmarch,
Amounis and Limerick (doing well at
Randwick) are in the Warwick Stakes; Tom
Pinch is a first acceptor for the Campbell-
town Handicap, though he was omitted from
the Hobartville Stakes for three-year-olds;
and many other Epsom and Metrop. can-
didates are engaged. Phar Lap may not be
as forward as some of those he will meet
in the w.f.a. race, but even an advantage
in condition may not enable any of them to
beat him. Fancies :
Campbelltown Handicap: High Disdain;
next, Tom Pinch or Credence.
Hobartville Stakes: Veilmond; next,
Burracootboo.
Warwick Stakes: Phar Lap; next,
Limerick.
Spring Handicap: Star God; next, In the
Shade.
Glenlee Handicap: Black Douglas; next,
Tregilla or Ra-asay.
* ■ * Hi
Williamstown results furnished further
proof that the way of the punter is hard.
WHERE HE SCORED.
MAORI RUCKER: “Py cripes, Te Aiki, nex’ time you pray it te fooibona more petter
you cut it te toenail."
Two first favorites scored, but they started
at cramped odds. On the other hand, Prince
of Samos was a “skinner” in the hurdle
race, and three other winners were conserva-
tively quoted at 12 to 1. As much as 33 to
1 was obtained about The Plappy Warrior;
only along the rails of the members’ enclo-
sure did lie figure at 100 to 8.
Of chief importance was the weight-for-
age victory of Waterline in the Underwood
Stakes, won in past years by Whittier
(twice), Heroic, Royal Charter and High-
land (twice). Waterline’s 13 rivals inclu-
ded Simeon’s Fort (the 1928 Doncaster
winner), Glare and Black Duchess, but all
three were unmarketable; always favorite,
the M.L. horse firmed from 5 to 2 to 2 to 1
and then eased a trifle. The former Queens-
lander Wise Force had a strong following
at 3 to 1, while Parkwood was backed from
Bto 1 to 9to 2. Waterline overcame a lot
of difficulties in running, and, going around
the leaders at the turn, romped home in
advance of Wise Force and Parkwood.
S. A. Rawdon cannot regret having paid
2000gns. for the Australian Sun gelding,
who, after competing in the Memsie Stakes
at Caulfield on September 6, will be sent
to Sydney for the Metropolitan. The un-
placed division was headed by Glare, who
also is by Australian Sun. For a notoriously
slow beginner, he did well over a mile course;
the present scribe regards him as superior
to Waterline and likely to shake a big plum
off the spring fruit-tree.
Several horses fell in the race over the
sticks, for which the Sydney-owned Rossgole
was backed from 6 to 1 to half those odds.
Over-anxious to gather in the leaders, Lynch
pulled out the whip at the last flight, and
Rossgole fell. Prince of Samos, trained by
Ronald Cameron for a Perth sportsman,
W. J. Winterbottom, deprived Not Infallible
of victory by a short head. On the sea
journey to Melbourne four months ago Prince
of Samos contracted strangles, and has
recovered health in remarkable fashion.
Winterbottom is general manager of a motor-
car company in Westralia. His Melbourne
representative did not put a shilling on the
horse, whose nominal quotation was 50 to 1.
Ocean Bound came to odds on for the
August Handicap, but finished out of a
place in a field of eight. Quick Reward, the
prad that put Duncan out of action, reached
the judge a neck in advance of Temoin, with
Gold Clare only a head farther off. Quick
Reward belongs to Son Hearn, who mixes
the roles of bookmaker and punter. Hearn
had lost hundreds of pounds on Quick
Reward in previous outings, and could not
have got much of it back, as the Maorilander
started at 12 to 1.
• • • • . .
In order to see how Sagacity would shape
in the tliree-year-old handicap J. S. Brunton
made a special journey from Sydney. His
representative w r as first choice in the betting,
but acquitted himself lamentably, and the
race went to Miss Arrow, owned by H. A.
Currie, vice-chairman of the V.R.C. Molli-
son’s brother, Calmond, was third. His
stablemate, The Happy Warrior, surprised
G. L. Scott by annexing the first division
of the Welter Handicap. The second divi-
sion went to Clarion Call, a handsome stal-
lion by Strephon’s sire.
* * * *
For Aspendale on Saturday:—
Three-year-old Handicap: First Cavalier;
next, Val Rose.
Aspendale Park Handicap: El Rey; next,
Temoin.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
More than one sporting writer condemned
the matching of Jimmy Kelso (9st. BJlb.)
and Fred Lloyd (9st. 71b.) at Sydney
Stadium, and the affair had a sudden ending
and a serious sequel. Lloyd, who is only 18,
collapsed shortly after the start of the 12th
round and was removed unconscious to the
hospital, suffering from cerebral hemorrhage.
li'e had made a fine showing in the early
stages against his more experienced
opponent, using a weighty right to jaw and
head. Up to the end of the eighth round it
looked as if both would see the 15-round
journey out.
* * * *
Joe Steelier is a dour-looking Yank, with
an outsize in undercarriages. His legs, like
granite piles, appear the same thickness all
the way flown, and one wonders how they
fit into his boots. Scaling 16st. 41b., Joseph
wrestled strenuously, though not very enter-
tainingly, against Harold Canton wine, also
a heavyweight and fat, at Melbourne, and
with weighty applications of the body
scissors won in the fifth round by two falls
to none. A most surprising departure from
union rules.
Footbrawl
Results of Saturday’s Vic. League games
further confused the position. Carlton
visited Melbourne and helped to provide
32,000 spectators with a fine, fast, clever
game topped with a thrilling finish, but failed
to get home, scoring only 77 points to 83.
Davey, Kelly and Gill showed up for Carlton,
and Vine, Tymms and Taylor for the
winners. The , licking leaves Carlton only
a game ahead of Collingwood. Melbourne
had to win to stay in, “the four.” Richmond
once more risked being pushed out when
Fitzroy beat them by 71 to 60. Collingwood
found St. Kilda pretty strong on their own
ground, as usual, but got home by 115 to 91.
Geelong outed Hawthorn with 125 points to
43; Essendon totted up 95 points to North
Melbourne’s 48, and South, still with faint
hopes of reaching the finals, demolished
Footscray with 84 points to 66.
* ❖ ❖ *
On the figures, N. S. Wales took a bad
hiding when Britain beat the home side at
Sydney Cricket Ground, before close on 30,000
people, by 29-10, or 6 tries, one of which was
converted, and 3 penalty goals to two con-
verted tries. In actual fact there was little
to choose between the teams up to half-time,
when Britain led 12-10, and the balance see-
sawed to the last quarter. Then the Welsh-
men went to bits, and were overwhelmed by
the British attack, which shoved on four
tries more before the no-side whistle went.
The first half especially provided brilliant
football, and it was already evident that the
visitors had worked up superb combination
in Maoriland. The vanguard packed and
heeled splendidly, while the backs showed
rare speed and anticipation. Particularly
successful was the line-kicking under the
international rules. Time and again 40 or
50 yards were gained in this way, without
undue stress being laid on the forwards.
The Sydneysiders were far inferior in this
respect; their forwards at times packed
badly and rucked half-heartedly, and the
policy of adding Ford to the three-quarter
line invited disaster. Our inside backs stood
too far back and gave the speedy Britons
opposite ample room to get well on the. move.
Turning to individuals, Bassett proved a
great defender at fullback. Novis, the Oxford
inside centre, was the best of a good and
speedy three-quarter line, his combination
with five-eighth Spong being largely respon-
sible for the side’s success. Spong over-
shadowed all the other backs, and if he can
do as well against Tom Lawton in the Test
may written down a wonder indeed. Ross
was very sound at fullback for N.S.W., but
was often let down by his centres. His tack-
ling was faultless, and he landed two fine
goals. Malcolm behind the scrum was easily the
best N.S.W. back. Finlay and Ferguson played
a sound and honest game in the vanguard.
He
The Rugby League club competition in
Sydney advanced another step on Saturday.
South Sydney, coming fast on the rails,
won in fine style from Eastern Suburbs at
the Sports Ground, 16-10. North Sydney, at
home to University, won 16-10; St. George
astonished W. Suburbs by winning 19-9 at
Earl Park, and Newtown easily prevailed
over Balmain at Marrickville by 25-12.
(Continued on next page.)
At the Empire Games in Canada England
scooped the board with 25 championships,
while Canada took 17 and South Africa 6.
Australia, Maoriland and Scotland had 3
wins each. Bobby Pearce easily captured
the sculls, and young Noel Ryan won
the 400 and 1500 yards swimming events.
Whyte and Hillhouse were Second in the
mile and the two-mile steeple respectively;
while Gallagher was beaten in the final of
the middle-weight boxing. Maoriland won the
javelin throw with Lay and the six-mile
track event with Savidan, as well as the
four-oared race.
RONDEAUX.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
These timeless Tests, you can’t deny,
With mounting scores that climb sky-high,
Would make them stare in wild amaze,
The cricketers of other days,
From Fuller Pilch to Ivo Bligli.
Once ’twas a case of do-or-die
Right out, but now two days go by
Ere either way the balance sways
In timeless Tests.
Around the world the cables fly,
And night by night announcers cry
Each over’s record, and the ways
That Peebles bowls or Bradman plays.
These timeless Tests!
These timeless Tests! At every try
New sets of records they supply.
What hecatombs of runs they raise!
What paeans of exultant praise!
What dead-sure tips they falsify!
’Tis over, brother. You and I
May slap a thigh or heave a sigh
As from his viewpoint each surveys
These timeless Tests.
One side must wifi, they tell. But why?
Some day mayhap there’ll be a tie.
“Beyond the bounds,” the sceptic says,
But I submit there’s no such phrase
In timeless Tests.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


SEPT'. 6 A NY MORE CRICKET TESTS?’*
Bert ‘."not this seasonjold girl?
<a&RT‘. Why do they put a time-
limit on all but the last
ONE ? ”
6>ERT To <SIVEr THE WIRELESS A,
REST, AND LET PEOPLE
get a, e>rr op Sleep*,"
Footbrawl
, “Fitzcray”: Australian Rules authorities
m Melbourne are verv bucked at the enthusi-
asm aroused in Brisbane by the recent exhi-
bition match between Carlton and Rich-
mond, and the local journals are publishing
a special interview with the State Governor,
in which that potentate asserted that the
game was the finest he had ever seen. It
is good publicity, but doubtful as indicating
the national code is coming to the top in
Bananaland. For donkey’s years, the Aus-
tralian Rules authorities have spent a lot of
time and money in attempts to capture the
Queensland and N.S.W. football markets
and there is no evidence that any good has
been done. One advantage of the Rugby
codes is that they offer facilities to players
for overseas trips and inter-Dominion and
international games. Until M.L. or South
Africa, to say nothing of Britain, takes
seriously to the Australian code, the latter’s
insularity will ad ways be a handicap.
* * * *
“Hororata”: Though a definite balance
has not been struck, the M.L. Rugby Union
estimates it has made £30.000 profit out of
the British tour of the Shivery Isles, and
there is still a fat cut to corhe from the
Australian games. Takings were £50,000,
and in spite of the thumping admission
charges many enthusiasts found it hard to
squeeze into the grounds, especially in the
Tests. The M.L. Union is a wealthy body
as it is. As a result of this tour it should
be in the capitalist class, and the attention
of Australian politicians is drawn to the
fact.
* * * *
St. Joseph’s College, winners of this
year’s Rugby championship of the N.S.W.
G. P. Schools, went down in the final match
of the season with a combined team from
the other schools. The combined side won
23 to 8, but the losers were without their
crack five-eighth, Ryan. James Baxter, man-
ager of the British team now in Australia,
watched the game, and was astounded at
the high standard of the play. There can
be no doubt that the football played by
these schools is Rugby at its best, both in
performance and the spirit in which the
game should be played.
=!= * :!= *
“Gate”: Maoriland Rugby League has
always claimed to be an amateur organisa-
tion, inasmuch as players in the past have
not received regular cuts of the club receipts,
as is the custom in N.S.W. The standard
of the game itself is very poor, and this
trouble is accentuated by the fact that the
English Northern Union regularly snaps up
any promising player. The Auckland League
has resolved that in future all players shall
share in the takings, in the hope that
financial temptations from England will
carry less weight.
The Fifteen
Australia won the fifth Test match at the
Oval on the sixth day, after considerable
interruption by rain, by an innings and 39
runs. The 124th of the series, the game
leaves Australia with 50 wins against Eng-
land’s 47. Seldom has either country scored
a more convincing victory. The home side,
batting first, put up the formidable total of
405. Woodfull’s men faced the job undis-
mayed and were not done with until 695
was on the board, the second highest total
ever made in a Test match; the highest,
729, was accomplished by the same team at
Lords in the second Test. England, unlucky
enough to strike a tricky pitch in its
second attempt, could get no further than
251.
England's first innings, which had started
so promisingly, petered out after the dis-
missal of Sutcliffe and Wyatt, who brought
the score from 197 to 367 before they parted.
Sutcliffe played one of the finest shots of his
career, falling to Fairfax at 161. Wyatt,
who gave splendid assistance, also fell to
Fairfax for 64. Fairfax and Grimmett then
finished off the tail. The long N.S.W. all-
rounder got 3 for 52, once more pointing
the moral that this so-called “one-bowler”
team can always dig up a wicket-getter on
emergency. Grimmett’s figures were 4 for
135, while Oldfield kept magnificently, allow-
ing no byes and dismissing three batsmen.
Woodfull and Ponsford opening for Aus-
tralia soon mastered the bowling. Woodfull
was content to stick, but Ponsford went for
runs and gave his so-called “hoodoo,” Lar-
wood, the father of a pasting before he
was dismissed for 110. Woodfull left with
54 on his slate, and Kippax fell to a trap set
by Peebles when 28. The inevitable Bradman,
assisted by Archie Jackson, went on with
the good work, and called it a day when he
had reached 232, made in the fashion of a
master. Jackson got to 73, well justifying
liis place in the side. McCabe had a merry
whack for 54, while Fairfax landed a use-
ful double with 53 n.o. Peebles bowled
untiringly to get 6 for 204; in spite
of occasional assistance from the wicket,
the rest of the trundlers could do little.
Duckworth had a shocking bad match behind
the sticks, dropping catches and letting a
lot of sundries go.
After a day’s adjournment through rain,
England had to bat on a pitch made
to order for a lefthander, and Hornibrook
took his chance with both hands. Sutcliffe
(44), Duleepsinliji (46) and Ilammond
(60) put up a valiant stand, but the Queens-
lander finished with 7 for 92. So Australia
triumphed as it deserved to triumph, having
proved superior in every department of the
game.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: Poor Wyatt, forced, one
imagines, against his will to the perilous
post of England’s captaincy in the last Test,
had hardly gone on the field with his side
before a demand arose that he be thrown to
the lions. He had hard luck in having to
succeed such a personality as Chapman, who,
though the highbrows of English cricket do
not seem to like him, is very popular with
the mob. In spite of a fine fighting innings
which resulted in a valuable partnership with
Sutcliffe, Wyatt’s failure to prevent the
Australians making more runs than Eng-
land settled his hash. Considering the com-
paratively poor lot the selectors furnished
him to work with, he could hardly have done
better. A fine player himself, he made good
in India in 1924, and against the South
Africans in all the 1925 Tests. This was
his first gallop against Australia, and he
may well ask, “Why pick on me?”
* * * *
“Headingley” : This one comes from Leeds,
where they take almost as much interest in
billiards as in cricket, even. Bradman had
made his record score of 334 in the third
Test, and a lad who hadn’t been able to
dodge his job i’ t’ mills thon afternoon
spoke up to a luckier friend returning from
the convincing ground. “Weel,” said the
unfortunate one, “they tell ma yon Brad-
man’s oot?” “Aye,” said his cobber. “An’
a gre-at knock beside. Pity Yooung Lin-
drum wasn’t at ’t other end; t’ pair on em
would ’o doon gradely.”
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: It has been a puzzle to
cricket followers in Australia why the Eng-
lish selectors have refused to give “Tich”
Freeman a trial in the Tests. Certainly
the little Kentishman did no good out here
with Chapman’s side, But he keeps getting
200 wickets season after season in England.
Recently he took all the Essex wickets in
one innings, having done the same thing
against Lancashire the previous season. Only
one other man has accomplished this in
English cricket history. V. E. Walker, also
a Kent player, pulled off the double in the
1860’s.
* -t- * *
“Aigburth”: Looking back on the Test
results in England, Australian barrackers
must feel darned thankful that it did not
occur to the selectors to trot out the vener-
able but still damnably efficient Syd Barnes.
Though he confines himself to second-class
county cricket in these days, he and Tate are
probably the most effective bowlers in Eng-
land to-day, with Wilfrid Rhodes in reserve
as a gluepot expert. The series just ended
has discovered no bowler worth mention out-
side Peebles, and Peebles is expensive. He
hasn’t yet attained Grimmett’s uncanny
faculty of dismissing strong batting sides at
trifling cost. Duleepsinhji, of course, is the
batting find of the season from England’s
point of view. Apart from those two Eng-
land’s prospects in the future look dismal.
=!= £ * -•!:
Charles Bannerman, who died in Sydney
last week at 79, was Australia’s first cricket
star, though he was English born. He
burst upon the cricket firmament in 1877.
when, in the first Test match ever played
between England and Australia, he scored
165, retiring hurt, but assuring the victory
of his side by 45 runs. That a “colonial”
batsman should have performed such a feat
against the bowling of men like Sh’aw, Ulyett.
and Lillywliite staggered the English cricket
critics. They were to know Bannerman
better in later days when he developed into
the finest batsman Australia produced up
to the advent of Murdoch. Going to
England with Gregory’s side, he up-
held his reputation, heading the aver-
ages with 723 runs in 31 innings.
He figured in only three Tests, but
liis average for six completed innings was
47.80 —figures that many modern Test bats-
men, playing on shirt-front wickets and
against bowling far below the quality that
he had to encounter on catch-as-catch-can
pitches, would give their ears to be able to
claim.
Racquet and Brawl
“Old Q.”: The Queensland championships
in Brisbane proved a good thing for the
home contingent, the only visiting player
to figure in a winning final being Dunlop, of
N.SAV., who partnered Cummings when the
pair beat Thompson and Walker, of the Ma
State, in the doubles. Cummings walked all
over Dunlop in the singles, playing like the
champion lie sometimes is to take three
straight sets. The women’s singles title went
to the consistent Mrs. Moleswortli, who beat
Miss Hood in two hard-fought sets, taking
13 games to 9.
“Top Spin” : Jean Borotra has decided to
drop out of big tennis after this season.
Though past his prime, the Basque is still
one of the best three players in France,
and it is very doubtful if any of the
young contingent in sight is fit to fill his
shoes. Apart from his tennis ability Jean
is one of the outstanding personalities of
the tennis world, and quite . exceptional
among his contemporaries because of his
equable temperament.
■f * * *
“Blah”: Alain Gerbault, once a French
Davis Cup player, suddenly chucked the
game some years ago and went for a single-
handed cruise round the world in a small
yacht. Even France has its blither press,
and this has discovered that Alain went
into exile for love of Suzanne Lenglen, who
gave him the bird when he wished to wed
her. On his return he is said to have put
the hard word on her again, only to meet
with another knock back. Now he says he is
going down to the sea again to forget his
broken heart.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hotham” : The Victorian amateur cham-
pionship was won last week by young Mick
Ryan, who defeated the left-handed Tas-
manian Len Nettlefold by 2 and 1. This
was Ryan’s first win in the State event,
though he is the holder of the Australian
title, won at Adelaide last year. Nettlefold
has twice bagged the Australian champion-
ship, scoring in 1926 and 1928. Sloan Mor-
peth, the ex-M.L. player w T ho took the State
amateur event last year, was outed in the
semi-final rounds by Ivo Whittoh.
* * * *
“Hotham”: There was almost an atmo-
sphere of delirious excitement over the final
of the Victorian amateur foursomes cham-
pionship. The scrap lay between Bulte and
Edgar, of the Commonwealth Club, and Ivo
Whitton, partnered by Alex. Russell, both
hailing from Royal Melbourne. Both pairs
tied in the first stroke contest over 36 holes,
and a play-off of 9 holes was ordered. This
time Bulte and Edgar came home on the
bit with 38, the enemy being 6 down with
44. Bulte, who seems to have a weakness
for foursomes, won the Australian title last
year with Legh Winser, of South Australia,
as a partner. Edgar, one of the most bril-
liant of the younger Victorian players, took
the Victorian amateur singles three years
ago, when quite a pup.
* * * *
“Sandringham” : One of the big events of
the Victorian golfing year is the contest
between country clubs for the “Leader”
Shield. The shield goes to Ballarat, which
beat the much-fancied Gippsland side hollow,
scores being 36 holes 32 aces to 9 holes 12
aces. This is the goldfield city’s first win
since 1924, and the victors can now rank
with Corangamite as the only side to win
the trophy twice. Corangamite has the better
record, for, in addition to winning in 1926,
it ran second in 1927-28.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: An unusual happening
marked the qualifying rounds of the N.S.W.
women’s golf championship—the meeting of
mother and daughter in the first round of
match play for the singles after each had
qualified in the stroke competition. The pair
were Mrs. Sydney Jones and Phyllis Jones.
Poppa is Dr. Sydney Jones, himself a notable
golfer and captain to-day of the Australian
club at Kenso. Phyllis, alas, proved most un-
Phyllial, outing Mum by 5 and 4.
* * * *
“Carnoustie”; It is never too late to wel-
come a repentant sinner to the golf fold.
Sydney’s “Labor Daily,” which gives much
space to sport of varying kinds, has hitherto
ignored golf, laboring under the 'impression,
popular in its own circles, that the game was
one mostly affected by the bloated capitalist
and his kind, though for a generation past
at least there has been plenty of evidence
to the contrary. The journal has found the
error of its ways, and its sporting columns,
about the best of their kind in Sydney, will
in future take notice of a game that is, above
all others, one for the worker with little
leisure for long-drawn-out sports. Golf in
its essentials calls for no elaborate equip-
ment and stands for slight expense. The
individual who cannot find an opponent
can get plenty of enjoyment by playing on
his own against a course bogey. There are
many courses round the chief Australian
cities to-day whereon a fee ranging up to
half a crown or so will furnish a whole day’s
healthful pleasure.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: Work is proceeding on the
chassis which is to carry the aeroplane engine
lent to Smith and Harkness when they make
their attempt on Segrave’s world’s speed
record in Maoriland next January. The com-
pleted car will be a weighty one, the unfor-
tunate experience of two American drivers
at Daytona having rammed home the lesson
that a light chassis cannot stand up to the
tremendous strain evolved by speeds running
over 200 m.p.h. It is interesting to remem-
ber in this connection that it is only 31
years ago that the world was staggered by the
first motor-speed record. This was put up
by the French driver Jenatzy, who rushed
over the ground at the blood-curdling pace of
41 m.p.h. Nowadays, the owner of a third-
hand “used car” could kick himself if he
couldn’t get that out of his crazy contraption
on a bush track.
* * * *
“Garry”: What looks like a big step
towards the ideal of flexible hydraulic trans-
mission is the new Daimler device called the
“fluid fly-wheel,” which is a hydraulic clutch.
At very low speeds this clutch allows a slip
of 100 per cent.—which means that the car
stops, though in gear—while at top speed the
slip is only 2 per cent. Combined with this
device is a four-speed gear-changing device
somewhat on the lines of the Wilson box,
fitted to Armstrong-Siddeley cars. Gear is
changed by shifting a little arm mounted on
a quadrant on the steering-wheel, at the same
time depressing a pedal. It is claimed that
this system makes driving as easy to the
tyro as to the most experienced motorist.
❖ ifs ifc jjc
“Kangaroo”: For the pedestrian the out-
look is full of gloom, Charles Kettering, the
American motor engineer and one of the
10.000 who claim to have invented the self-
starter, has announced that within 10 years
we shall have ordinary roadsters travelling
100 m.p.h., costing less than £250, and doing
80 miles to the gallon. In those days one
will be able to paraphrase the old aspiration
and call on Heaven to help all poor souls
on foot to-night.
* * * *
“Kick Starter” : England’s victory in the
third series of dirt-track motor-cycle races
between international teams put the Cold
Country on top by two matches to one. It
was a close thing on the last occasion: Eng-
land, 49 points; Australia, 46. Teams were
8 a side, and of the 16 heats Queenslander
Vic Huxley won 3 and Frank Arthur and
Westralian Ron Johnson 2 each. English
riders have evidently not been long in pick-
ing up the tricks of the game, for when it
was sprung on the British public last year
they were outclassed by the Australian riders,
who _ practically swept the board at every
meeting.
* * * *
“Sprocket” : The N.S.W. cyclist J. Gould
had no trouble in retaining his Australian
amateur championship over the 100 miles on
the roads when the event was run off in Vic-
toria. The race was unpaeed, and riders
from four States competed. The run was
from Campbellfield to Seymour and back,
the winner getting home in 4hr. 54min. 4sec.
C. Currie, of Victoria, was second, some two
minutes behind, but had bad luck in being
held up by a mob of sheep. Another Vic-
torian, W. McLaughlin, filled tjjird place,
the Queensland and South Australia contin-
gents finishing well back. Gould broke his
own record of shr. 9min., made last year, but
has still far to go to beat Don Kirkham’s
time of 4hr. 36min. put up 18 years ago.
Miscellaneous
“Shell”: One cheering result of Bobby
Pearce’s decision to accept a job in Canada
is that the youngster will be given a chance
to have a shy at the Diamond Sculls. The
new rule setting forth the definition of an
amateur rower or sculler came into force in
January last, and there is now no question
of his eligibility. Before that, under the
moth-eaten laws of the English rowing
authorities, the young man, having at one
time worked with his hands, had no hope
of turning out in the great lily white event.
:!: •!* * *
“Blue Chalk”: The finals of the Aus-
tralian amateur billiard championship drew
a big crowd in Brisbane, and the local cham-
pion, Sam Ryan, won a close match from
G. B. Shailer, of N.5.W.., 2000-1846. The best
break was 122 by Shailer, Ryan’s highest
being' 91. The winner averaged 9.7 for the
2000 points, most of his scoring being
through red losers, while Sha iler, as always,
relied on all-round billiards. Though beaten,
the Welshman has the satisfaction bf having
defeated Hayes, the former Australian title-
holder and winner of the Empire champion-
ship in South Africa last year, in the N.S.W.
championship, which served as a qualifying
round for the big event.
=!= * * *
Invaluable to the card-player is a neatl.v-
got-up booklet on the laws of draw poker,
solo whist, auction solo and auction and
contract bridge. The booklet is printed
by Hartson, Partridge and Co. for the Mel-
bourne Commercial Travellers’ Club. If
anything is lacking in the get-up it is a
compendium of -commercial travellers’ anec-
dotes wherewith to wile away the time
between hands.
* $ * *
The 1930 edition of Miller’s “Sporting
Annual” is the fifty-fifth of the series. In
addition to the usual compendium of racing
and athletic information and records which
has made the little book such an indis-
pensable authority for reference, the prac-
tice of recent years in including photographs
of prominent racehorses and athletes has
been continued. Publishers are the J. J.
Miller Press, of Melbourne.


FROM CHINA TO PERU.
. Xn ingenious gentleman in Lithuania has
just. been convicted of a new method of
beating the Post Office, a sport popular in
many lands. Regulations require that un-
stamped letters be returned to the sender,
the latter’s name and address being required
on all letters for that reason. The ingenious
one put there the address to which he wished
them to be delivered, in place of his own,
thus ensuring a free delivery.
“Ex-Englishman”: The necessary points
for telling a smoke-room story set out by
“Lao-dah” (B. 6/8/’3O) omit a most impor-
tant one—Be Brief. Unless a yarn is of the
old-fashioned . English-country-squire type,
just a wallowing in offence, its whole merit
lies in one snappy sentence of surprise at
the end. The prosy person who rambles on
for.minutes before coming to this is simply
asking for an extinguisher, and that not on
moral grounds at all. He is merely a bore —
especially when you are waiting to tell a
better one.
“Up Top”; Badu islanders miss school-
master Windsor, who introduced boy scout-
ing to Torres Strait, just as .Chatterton in-
troduced it to the Papuan nig. Windsor
had fine material to work on, for the scout
lore and laws appealed to the islanders and
gave new scope for the exercise of the tribal
rivalry which has existed for centuries be-
tween the big palm-thatched villages. The
present scoutmaster at Badu is Joman Lam-
way, assistant-teacher to Mrs. Zahl, who
for 20 years has taught the brown-skinned
Torres Strait kids.
“Aileron”: One of the features of the
British air manoeuvres has been the employ-
ment of many pilotless ’planes, the machines
being controlled by a robot apparatus actu-
ated by wireless, or, in some instances, act-
ing automatically. This last system is
employed on the large bombers, and enables
the human pilot, with other jobs to attend
to, to hand over to the robot while he sets
about them. It is curious how fool-proof
’planes can sometimes be. There is the
famous instance in France of the British
’plane found 20 miles behind the lines with
pilot and observer obviously killed instan-
taneously by the same bullet. The ’plane
had landed all but unharmed, and it was
proved . afterwards that, when its crew had
been killed over the line, it had flown auto-
matically in the arc of a circle to where it
was found.
“Retired Volt” : I saw more than most of
the suffering and annoyance inflicted on the
Digger by our insane war-censorship (B.
23/7/’3O). One regulation forbade the
names of steamers and ports of arrival or
departure to be mentioned in telegrams.
When a transport arrived at, say, Capetown,
dozens of soldiers would cable home for
remittances. The censor would change the
station to “Sans Origine” and delete the
name of the bank altogether. Worried
parents would then come into the cable
offices asking what they were to do about it.
I used to ask them if they knew which route
their son’s transport was taking. They
invariably replied, “Of course we do. He
told us before he left that the first port of
call would be Capetown,” so what the cen-
sors gained is hard to see.
At the end of the eighteenth century Eng-
land bad about eight million people and
France over three times as many. Unem-
ployment was rife in France (it was a cause
of the Revolution) and practically non-
existent in England. Then the French
learned birth-control, and the British and
French population totals began to draw level.
The present position is that both countries
can employ about 90,000 more workers each
year, but while the French increase is only
60,000 a year the British is 200,000. Hence
the importation of workers by France, the
only European country without an unemploy-
ment problem, and the choice for Britain
THE ADDED INSULT.
THE MISSUS: “Don’t you know that I am the only
one in this house that my husband should make
love to?”
THE MAID: “Yes, Mum. He was only just saying the
other day that I am much too good for him.”
betw r een expatriating some of the best of
its nationals and supporting an average of
11 million who are unemployables by force
of circumstances. The catch in the busi-
ness from France’s point of view is that
under-populated countries are never safe. The
fruitful Germans, with 2i millions unem-
ployed, are again causing the French sleep-
less nights.
“Killaloe” : A curious feature of the cable
columns of the dailies for these many years
past is the almost entire absence of any
news relating to Ireland. The cableman, of
course, depends on the English press for his
material, and since Ireland obtained Home
Rule the London newspaper offices seem
to have lost all interest in the sister coun-
try’s affairs. It is almost as if they have
had too much Ireland for a century, and
can now manage with little or none of it.
Any sensational happening, of course, gets
a certain amount of notice, but Irish politics,
except at election time, are practically
ignored and the Dail Eireann might as well
be in Greenland for all English readers hear
of its deliberations. Yet, overseas at least,
there must be a vast number of newspaper
readers who would willingly forego some of
the everyday budget from St. Stephen’s in
favor of an occasional item about the doings
or the Dail and, for that matter, the House
of Commons of Northern Ireland.
“Piecrust” : The Judd family were numer-
ous in our district, and each summer a
cricket team composed entirely of members
of the tribe, played the local club’s eleven.
As a rule there were more than sufficient
Judds available, but one year a shortage
occurred. The question then arose at a
family council as to whether Charlie Stub-
bins, a rather distant connection, could be
considered a Judd for bat-and-ball purposes.
Grandpa Peter, whose memory was pro-
digious, delved into pedigrees. “Far’s I can
see,” he said, after meditation, “he’s all
right. It’s like this: My uncle Henry was
married twice, and so was his second wife.
One of her daughters by her first husband
FIRST AUSTRALIAN XI IN ENGLAND.
(Just-dead Charles Bannerman second standing figure from right.)
married Cousin Emily’s brother-in-law, and
their third child was Charlie’s step-father.
I reckon that makes him a Judd.” The meet-
ing tried to puzzle it out, but finally Dad got
up and banged the table. “I move we write
to this bloke Einstein and make sure,” he
said, amidst applause. “I ’ear Vs good on
this relativity business.”
“Whitehall”: Australia threatens to be-
come accent-conscious —one of the most pain-
ful things that can happen to a self-respect-
ing community. Herds of politicians,
lawyers and business men with honest Aus-
tralian twangs that have served them well
for half a lifetime are being: taken to task
over their methods of speech
by members of a younger
generation. Instead of rout-
ing their pernicketty and im-
pudent critics with virile
abuse, some attempt the for-
lorn hope of altering their
voices. I . listened recently to
a distinguished ex-Digger who
had been betrayed by an
Anglicised daughter into aban-
doning his natural mode of
articulation. It was a har-
rowing experience. The words
that troubled him most were
those ending in “ine”; the
once-terrifying warrior pro-
nounced “mine” “mane,” and
was as self-conscious as a
flapper while perpetrating the
idiocy. Modern London has
got the disease badly, and the
conversation of truly refaned
Cockney taipists or shopgirls
is almost as hard to under-
stand as Choctaw. Why they
use this tortured form of
speech is hard to understand,
since no one—not even a
foreigner, much less a Briton
—is deceived for a minute.
Abbas Hilmy, ex-Khedive of
Egypt and a nephew of the
present King Faud, is said
to be contemplating a return
to Egypt with the idea of re-
covering his former rank. His
chance is not a good betting-
one, for the Turkish suzerainty
over Egypt, which was respon-
sible for his office, has van-
ished, and he effectually
burned his boats behind him
when he left Egypt for Con-
stantinople just before the
war and refused the British
Government’s request that he
would return to his job be-
fore hostilities broke out. At Con-
stantinople he threw in his lot with
Turkey and the Central Powers, backing the
wrong horse in typically Egyptian fashion.
Succeeding his father, Twefik, at 18, the
youth proved a cunning and plausible worker
against British interests. He was constantly
at loggerheads with Cromer and Kitchener,
both of whom did so much for his country,
and in the immediate pre-war days he was
undoubtedly heavily subsidised by Germany.
He will not be welcomed by any section in
Egypt to-day. The British control will have
none of him at any price, nor will the
Nationalist movement, which wants all the
loot for itself if there is to be any going.
“H'ell’s Fury” : From a cable :
“The Australians whom I met in France during
the war were mostly unspeakable bounders,” writes
the anonymous authoress of “W.A.A.C. Demobilised.”
“However, while staring in a shop window I
met three of the dearest fellows, who took me out
in a motor-car to spend the evening and half the
night.”
Judging by previous W.A.A.C. confessions,
that was the standard. Any soldier who had
the inclination or opportunity to pick up
a W.A.A.C., or allow himself to be procured
by one W.A.A.C. for another (as described
in “W.A.A.C.’s” first book) won high praise.
The fact is the Diggers who did the fighting
hardly ever saw a W.A.A.C. On the Somme,
for example, there were no W.A.A.Cs. nearer
the line than Abbeville —and I never heard
of anyone under field rank wangling more
than a day’s leave to that pleasant town.
In the course of three years with the A.I.F.
in Egypt and England, in the Salient and on
the Somme I didn’t see a single Digger
officer or “other ranks” with a W.A.A.C.,
though quite a few were to be found enter-
taining nurses and French girls in the far-
back areas.
Captain William Pearce, of Devonport
(Tas.), ha.s passed out at 85. He was a son
of Henry Pearce, a one-time Hobart aider-
man, and he served his apprenticeship on
the Wild Wave, a barque trading between
Hobart and London. After getting his ticket
he skippered several boats in the Mauritius
and China trade. He joined the T. S. N.
Co. in 1884, and had charge of several well-
known craft trading to and from Launceston.
After leaving the sea he was Master Warden
of the Mersey Marine Board at Devonport
for some years.
“Binns”: Dean Inge is the latest publicist
to express his approval of the suggestion that
persons condemned to die should be allowed
to choose their own methods of dying. It
seems a humanitarian idea and wakens
memories of the exits of Socrates and a cer-
tain Duke of Clarence, but its practicability is
another question. For one thing, the range
of choice is so large, if not almost unlimited,
that all sorts of innovations would have
to be introduced into the lethal equipment
of prisons where executions are frequent.
Most of the new methods of killing mur-
derers have originated in America, where, in
addition to the electric-chair, a sort of cham-
ber similar to that in which unwanted dogs
are destroyed has been experimented with.
In a few European countries the condemned
already has some choice; the cable recently
mentioned the case of a Lithuanian citizen
who had elected to be poisoned in preference
to being hanged, but whose constitution was
inexplicably proof against the dose adminis-
tered to him, and who was energetically pro-
testing against a return to the more reliable
method of sending a man out of the world.
F. Y. Murphy, who died recently in Mel-
bourne, was a Tasmanian who for many
years was one of the best-known figures in
Queensland banking circles; he had managed
branches of the O. N. Bank from Brisbane to
Thursday Island and from Cunnamulla to
Rockhampton. Just before the war he went
to Melbourne to open a branch of the bank
there, but later retuimed to Queensland to
take up pastoral interests.
“Bert the Carpenter”: Some Italians may
have a higher standard of living than ours
(B. 13/8/’3O), but the statement is far
from being true of all of them. Along the
Murray in 1921-22 I saw gangs of Italians—
and Maltese—whose breakfast was mostly
dry bread and a few raw onions. Macaroni
or boiled rice, with cheese or dripping stirred
in, was an average dinner, while tea was a
stew of rabbit, magpie or anything else
they could shoot. They drank only pinky
and water; empty super, or cement bags
were utilised for tents, and often formed
their sole bedding.
“Jeames”: When Sir Otto Niemeyer first
arrived politicians had difficulty in under-
standing him; he talked in the more or less
private lingo of London high finance. Now
Premiers, Treasurers and their offsiders have
picked it up, and they have discarded talk
of budgets “not balancing” in favor of
“being off budget equilibrium.” The coun-
try is no longer “faced with imminent danger
of bankruptcy” ; it “shows serious symptoms
of financial malaise.” And so on. The
trouble with these picturesque expressions
is that they are the vogue to-day and a
sign of provincialism to-morrow. Sydney
flappers of the more advanced school have
just acquired the knack of saying a thing is
DINKY-DI.
EDWIN : “Honest, Miss Brown, which do you
pwefer, bwain or bwawn?”
“cry-making” when they mean “sad,” “too
smile-making” when they mean “funny,” etc.
This jargon was coined by London’s “bright
young things” in 1928 but it has long since
died in the West End and come to life in
suburbs like Surbiton. All of which goes
to prove that the plainest English is invari-
ably the best.
The oldest pressman in Australia was John
H. Ricketts, who had passed the century
when his life closed a few days ago. But his
press work was done in England; it waS'
not until he was 88 that he came to Sydney
in search of sunshine. Up to the end, how-
ever, he wrote an occasional article; as he
had reported the turning of the first sod on
three of the big railway systems. of England,
and had worked for decades in the press
gallery of the Commons, he had an abundant
spring of reminiscences.
“D.” : A “Sun Pictorial” writer, dealing
with Billy Hughes’s visit to the Sydney
Harbor Bridge workshops, said: —
Amid the deafening din of clanging steel, roaring
pressure-furnaces, and pneumatic riveting machines,
he did what none present was able to do—heard the
answer to his many questions of Mr. Ennis.
What aural phenomenon accounts for this?
The answer is vibration. The deaf can
hear in trams and trains (and the more
they rattle the better), over telephones, in
talkie theatres and in battle. When, the
normal hear best ( i.e ., in stillness) the
deaf hear worst. The doctors can do nothing
either to cure deafness or to prevent its
onset. Both Sir Morell Mackenzie and Sir
Felix Sernon told Queen Alexandra that she
would be very deaf years before she was, and
that she could do nothing but “forget about
it.” She suffered from Billy’s trouble —
middle-ear deafness.
William Dart, who died in Brisbane at
93, came there from Devonshire 75 years
ago, and helped to pioneer the sugar industry
in the North; he had a plantation at St.
Lucia on the spot which is to be the new
site of the Queensland University. He was
one of those who turned their attention to
cotton during the U.S. Civil ( War, and
cleared a handsome profit before the Ameri-
can plantations got into working order again.
The widow of Knight James Hector, one
of Maoriland’s pioneer explorers and fore-
most scientists, passed away at Wellington
recently aged 81. She survived her husband
23 years. She was born in Nelson (M.L.),
her father being Knight David Munro, one-
time Speaker of the Leg. Council. James
Hector was born in Edinburgh, and his
father, a Writer to the Signet, used to trans-
late and read to Sir Walter Scott old MS.,
some of which made material for the Waver-
ley novels. The younger Hector qualified as
a medico, but his bent was for geology and
exploration. After an experience as surgeon
and geologist to a Canadian expedition that
A PROFESSIONAL APPEARANCE.
“Why didn’t you bring a bigger bag? This
one’s no good!”
“But if th’ police see us on th’ way ’ome,
this one’ll make us look like a couple o’
doctors on a night call.”
discovered the pass in the Rocky Mountains
through which the Transcontinental railway
now runs, he went to M.L. as Government
Geologist of Otago. Later he conducted the
big Dunedin Exhibition of 1865 brilliantly,
and, for his scientific work, collected honors
from many learned societies. He married in
1868, and there were nine ehilden, five of
whom survive.


/
%
0
hll
-J
<l/
I
m
>n
A
1
. : >' ... ~ '
.■ .. " ' •
:
-
wk
/-s
\«
\\
\
m
i
N-
r
iSliii
Ever new
in the pleasure they impart-
the old favourite
in the scarlet and gold packet
SWt (XPRIrSS
K)>9. CICARETTK 20^16


a
National
Hotel
BRISBANE
TARIFF RATES —For Rooms Only
Room for one person, from 8/- to 10/- per day.
Room for two persons, from 16/- to 20/- per day.
Room with private bathroom, for one person from
12/6 to 20/- per day.
Room (large), with balcony and private bath, for
two persons, 25/- per day.
Suite, balcony bedroom, sitting-room, with
private bathroom, for two persons 30/- per day.
Every Room is equipped with Telephone,
Bedside Light, Hot and Cold Running Water
Conducted on the European plan by—
ROWES LTD.
HOTEL and CAFE PROPRIETORS
Address Manager Write for Illustrated Folder
CLIFTON GARDENS HOTEL
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Limited).
Sydney's well-known Harbor Hotel
' > I ‘
; V
yj; vv,:.
[IBQ
QOO
Mq
JJMIWLW 9QQ ilo
Overlooking Harbor and Ocean.
QUIET and RESTFUL—
an ideal Winter Home, as
Warm in Winter as the
South of France. The
Most Sheltered Spot on
the Harbor, with Private
Beach and Amphitheatre
Swimming Baths, Spacious
Grounds and Garage
Accommodation.
TARIFF:
From 44 Guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTER-
NOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes'
trip from City by Ferry
or Motor.
RESERVATIONS: Y 3012 (4 lines).
Unde?
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1920. /
CHAMPAGNE \
CharlesTleidsieck
EIWI
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limits!
SYDNEY.
ToH.NL
GeorgeV
Champagne
GurlesHeidsitfS
HEIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER.
Another Queen-Presumptive has been born
to the Empire. “If the Prince of Wales
shouldn’t marry, and if an heir isn’t born
to the Yorks”.... Ladies, old and young,
have been building the bridge of “ifs” ever
since the arrival of the new inhabitant of
Glamis. The topmost point of that bridge is
a glittering throne, and the least concerned
about it at the moment is the sunny-faced
Princess Elizabeth. Her one desire just
now seems to be to make a throne of her own
arms for little sister, hereinafter to be called
(or so it is nearly decided) Margaret. We
all feel quite matey with the little mother
since her Australian tour, when we decided,
watching her deadly charm at work on civic
fathers and politicians, that she was attrac-
tive enough to be a “dangerous woman” if
fate hadn’t made her a duchess.
Looking at the sturdy Elizabeth you wonder
whether, if ever her Royal grandfather should
demand of her her favorite tune, she will
reply as tactfully as the little Victoria did
when George IV. put the question to her.
Victoria is reported to have answered
promptly: “God Save the King, sir!”
By the way, when the princess takes her
walks abroad from Glamis Castle, quite an
ordinary jaunt brings her to the little village
which J. M. Barrie told us all about in “A
Window in Thrums.”
This is the story of the Wedding of the
Week.
From their first glimpse of one another
the attraction was mutual. Every bit of his
being strained towards her, and she, though
not forward, certainly never withdrew from
his advances. He longed for the moment
when circumstances would enable him to
caress her; she for the moment she might
surrender herself to his embrace. “What a
man!” she would say to herself when, some-
times unexpectedly, of a noontide she would
feel his burning glance traversing her slim-
ness—“true as steel!” And he, looking at
her, would murmur “What a mate to grapple
to one’s soul!”
Sometimes she became impatient, as even a
maiden will, but always the doctor said:
“Slowly ! Slowly, my dear ! Remember
every day and in every way you are getting
closer and closer.” And sometimes he, gazing
at the tides that swept between, would groan:
“Am I then a slave that I cannot clear the
barrier that keeps us separate?” Under the
cold wind-blown stars of winter, under the
velvet sky of languorous summer nights, he
strained and : swayed towards her, high on
her pedestal.
The months passed, the years passed. She
sometimes would fling a glance at the spire
of St. James’s, at the towers of St. Mary’s,
and think coyly of the day of her own nup-
tials. To him, too, would come the joy-
bells of St. Mary’s, and he, to ease the ache
of longing, would look towards the law
courts, and, flippantly cynical, with his man-
of-the-world shrug, would mutter, “Oh well;
if our wedding is delayed, so also is our
divorce!” But love conquers all, and slowly,
inevitably as fate, they drew together ; and
■one pittosporum-scented spring night they
met without any barriers and their world
swung dizzily, like a great illuminated
Ferris-wheel.
In the golden dawning a glad world re-
joiced. Flags fluttered, trumpets sounded.
The longed for alliance was completed. The
Creeper-Cranes had met.
Edith Taliaferro’s figure gets its best
chance of the season in her “Coquette”
frocks, and the only pity is that when the
final curtain falls you know the poor little
heroine will get no more chances to sport
the coming season’s models. When Edith
in the first act walks on, the spirit of youth,
in her buttercup frock patterned in black and
wdiite, with high waist and short sleeves,
you decide there couldn’t be anything better
to come. And then, as you are trying to
remember enough about it to pass on to the
little dressmaker around the corner, the
seductive Edith flutters again into the vision
in a romance dreamed by Worth and adapted
by David Jones. In the Worth studio it was
christened “Field Flowers.” On its white
chiffon field the reddest poppies, the bluest
cornflowers and little clover-heads blend in
a pattern that reminds you of a cliffside
you walked across one summer’s afternoon
when the world was very young. Through
the white chiffon blushes a faint pink under-
lining. The round, off-the-shoulder top is
frilled with the finest of silk lace, and a
riband of blue velvet defines the high waist.
Later on, one of those tweed-patterned silks
—the flamingo background flecked with beige,
sable and white —allied a bolero top and
short sleeves. Then in the third act, just
before the cerements, the sad but still be-
witching little heroine wraps herself in an
ensemble of silver-grey fl'ate crepe, of which
the three-quarter coat has deep cuffs of
squirrel. On the top of the right furry
cuff nestles a dead-white gardenia. The hat
that tops this is a thrill in pale grey straw
and white pique.
The crystal coronets that the lately-
travelled declare put a glitter into all the best
night-life of Paris and London prove on close
acquaintance to be charming toys that sug-
gest a garden misty with dew. One this Letter
saw last week was composed of rose leaves of
palest green, against which were placed flat
liedge-roses of dewy pink. Another was of
crystal ferns, and might have been worn
by Poppsea; another was* a head-dress for
a snow queen—all silver and icicles. Flower
necklets in this delicately colored crystal
will no doubt form quite a part of the race
ensemble. One, a thick round chain of blue,
had nosegays every now and then of heather,
pink heathbells, bluebells and green leaves.
Another had knotted daisies, buttercups and
heather on a round chain of tiny leaf-green
beads. A cornelian necklet of delicate inde-
terminate flowers swung between each flower
a pear-shaped cornelian drop by a gold
thread. With this went a cornelian-toned
head-dress fashioned in ring velvet, and a
bag of mushroom velvet soutached in cor-
nelian silks. This was further encrusted
with a flower design of the rich-colored
stones, which also emblazoned the gold
mount. Two powder-blue velvet evening
bags which might have been carried by Marie
Antoinette herself, they have such an air
of old-world charm, are in powder-blue
velvet, soutached in silver thread and em-
broidered, one in pink cornelian flowers, the
other in moonstones.
When you saw three or four upstand-
ing males striding in company about the city
streets last week you could guess they were
either British footballers or old Riverview
boys. That handsome R.C. College marked
its golden jubilee with nearly a week of cele-
brations, and old boys from every State and
from Maoriland came to Sydney and held
grand reunion during an entire day. It
started with mass at 7.30 one morning,
and included a lunch, then games and a
dinner in the old refectory. Still later came
a performance of “Midsummer Night’s
Dream” by present students in’ the new hall,
which is the memorial erected by the River-
view boys to their soldier dead. Another
festivity of the week was the garden party
last Saturday, which drew a tremendous
crowd of parents and friends. The tall and
venerable Father Thomas Gartlan, for 20
years rector of the school, held a levee
on a lawn bordered by spring. Here blazed
poppies and cinerarias, while in the more
remote walks to the water’s edge, ferny fronds
and bush flowers trembled into being. The
present rector, Father Lockington, cast his
long shadow in many places during an after-
noon crowded with congratulations.
The wife of Greek Consul-General Chry-
santliopulos gazing out from this Falk pic-
ture —seems to gaze beyond this page to the
All Nations’ Ball on September 2. For
the past few weeks the lady’s energies have
been directed to the Pageant, which in com-
pany with
Belgium’s Con-
sul - General
Segaert she is
directing. This
ball, a yearly
event and a
money - raiser
for the League
of N a t i o n s’
Union, is al-
ways staged in
the Palais
Royal, for big
areas arc
needed for a
Pageant which
embodies the
54 nations of
the League.
This year
the dominant
theme of pro-
cession and
tableaux will
be “The Spirit of International Progress,"
personated by Sophie Segaert, who will be
convoyed by such pictorial attendants as
Britannia, China, Greece, Italy, Lebanon,
Czechoslovakia and the Balkan States. Art,
Science and Industry will join in the Grand
March, and in the Art section will walk
the great operas, girls as Romneys, Wat-
teaus, Reynolds and other Old Masters,
while humans swathed in white will pro-
cesh as famous statues. The inimitable,
by-all-men-beloved Dqii Quixote will close
the scene —though you mustn’t think this is
a sly dig at the League.
The gayest little runabout at the Motor
Traders’ Ball was Norah Frost. She was
here, there and everywhere in her stream-
line chassis of primrose-green moire topped
by a radiant smile. Norah is social organ-
iser for the Institution for the Deaf and
Dumb and Blind Children at Darlington,
and the ball was for its benefit. The frivol
was the first official dance of the Motor
Traders’ Association, and the gaiety of
the brethren was balloon-tyred. As one
man to another you could have imagined
president S. R. Lownds saying to Otto
Niemeyer, “Even if prices don’t soar, old man,
you can’t stop our spirits doing it.” The
Governor and Lady Game came to the party,
she in sky-off-Cremorne blue georgettes
served with roses and the last word in black
and gold lame liip-coats. The Vice-reine’s
friend and social secretary Isobel Crowdy
wore chiffons of squirrel grey, and the smile
of amiable Lieut.-Commander Gifford pro-
vided an extra thrill for the covey of debs,
who fluttered on to the carpet under the
direction of Mrs. L. Dwyer. This was a
very grand ball, and netted the Mayoral
Marks, brother and sister, and the ex-Civic
Commissioner Garlick couple. Hilda Marks,
as usual, wore eye-arresting raiment. It
was black and white, and swung a silver
fringe. The junior committee framed its
youthful faces with lint-white Pompadour
wigs, and one of the vice-presidents, Mrs.
E. C. Riddle, wore a head-dress of tulle and
crystal drops with her frock of orchid satin.
Among the dancing hundreds were the Briga-
dier Lloyds, Dr. and Mrs.. Storie Dixson,
secretary Ethel Wall and treasurer H. S.
Crocker.
This Letter climbed the steepest gangway
at Jones Bay the other afternoon, and there-
by arrived at the heart of the City of Khar-
toum and Kitty Russell-Jackson’s composite
boudoii*, workshop and cabin. Kitty, whose
clever clay model of Gandhi was reproduced
in The Bulletin on August 13, had intended
dropping off the
ship her hus-
band skippers
and taking a
studio in New
York, there to
follow up the
success she
had already
gained. But
the death of
her father
brought her
back to Aus-
tralia, and
will, when her
husband’s boat
returns from
Cairns, neces-
sitate her
staying in Mel-
bourne, her
home town, for
some time.
Mrs. Russell-
Jackson, who was Kitty Boyes, has been
doing clay caricatures and portraits of cele-
brities since her childhood. Long ago such
well known Australians as Edmund Barton,
Sam Griffith and W. M. Hughes sat while
her fingers moulded or distorted their
features into serious or humorous lines. Of
later years, Lloyd George, the late King of
Siam and the late Emperor of Japan con-
sented to be added to her gallery. Lloyd
George was so delighted with' himself in clay
that he bought the tiny model. On this
visit to New York, President Hoover sat
for her, and gave her a commission to model
him with the hint of caricature left out.
The President’s face, the artist says, still
suggests a Toby plate. Another of her
American subjects w*as the Reverend Archi-
bald Dow, a scholarly, absent-minded cleric
who brings occasional laughter to New York.
Among the charities attached to his cure of
souls is a guild, and (the story goes) some-
body to mark his approbation of the ladies’
work decided he would give them a cow. The
Reverend Archibald went to market to buy
it —and sent home a young bull!
Joan Barnes made a charming Dora and
Harry Luscombe a smiling but not elderly
enough Mr. Pickwick at the Ambassadors the
other night. The twain stood inside the
doorway to the ballroom and greeted each
group of newcomers to the Pickwick Book
Club Ball with smiles and lucky numbers.
Before they started to dance they had handed
out over 600 of these, and by the time they
joined in, things were willing in the arena.
The place was packed, and even at 12s. 6d.
a ticket Dorise Hill, who organised the
hop, will have a worth-while cheque to offer
to Norah Frost for her Deaf and Dumb and
Blind Children at Darlington. The members
of the club of which Dorise is the chief-
tain were responsible for the whole-hearted
success, and to vice-president Mrs. A. G.
Hyem a laurel wreath is also due. Ben-
jamin Fuller’s lady was president of the
committee, and hostessed a party that over-
flowed the Empire-room. The lady’s dress
of white chiffon patterned in gold was en-
hanced by the soft lights from the crystal
chandeliers of the pretty enclosure. An
excitement of the evening was the announce-
ment of Duleie (Dorise’s younger sister)
Hill’s engagement to Robert Stephen, of
Rose Bay.
Mary Gilmore greeted two newborn last
week —another year and a new book of
poems—and this Letter hastens to offer
good wishes for both. The first copy of the
book, “The Wild Swan,” was brought out
by a thoughtful publisher on her birthday,
Mrs. Gilmore has all the ardor of the Celt,
and in her work there is always something to
grip the throat as well as the reason. She
was quite the most-published member of the
Lyceum to be greeted by Lady Game the
other day, when the Vice-reine paid her first
visit to the club, whose patron, Rose Soley,
was. another to receive a warm smile from
her Ex. Mrs A. G. Thomas did the honors,
while the perfect interpretation of songs
from every land was given by Mrs. Horace
Sheller. Rose Duvalli had her Brian Boru
harp transplanted to the Lyceum for the
occasion.
Mrs. Fred Aronson’s party to the Mayor
and his sister the Mayoress was the fashion-
able kettle-drum of the week, and, surpris-
ing in Sydney, there were numerous males
at the tea-tables, which were gay with rose-
spattered china and pink and white linen
cloths. The Mayoress was smart in caped
mushroom ring-velvet, patterned with tawny
hues, but her civic brother didn’t sport even
a lapel of rabbit-skin for the occasion.
Dramatist Harry Tighe and Allan Wilkie
grew matey over an eclair, and there was
comedy in the flutter of Miss Hunter-Watts’s
eyelashes. Town-Clerk Layton and Mrs.
Albert Littlejohn reminisced. Justice Alex-
ander Gordon’s lady came with old friends
Mrs. Leslie Victor and her sister (Elsie
Austin, who is back from her travels, having
left Mrs. Tommy Marks behind her in
Europe. The Mark Sheldon and Murdoch
ladies were among the many, and also pre-
sent was the attractive Mrs. Honey, of Dar-
ling point, who, even as this Letter puts on
its last dab of rouge, is at St. Stephen’s
becoming Mrs. Byron Beans, of U.S.A. And
there’s many a writer will envy her her
new name!
The Letter liked the silver splashes on
Mayoress Hilda Marks’s black outfit when
that lady bade the Vice-reine, her own living
predecessors and all present suburban
mayoresses welcome to her Town Hall fast-
ness. Lady Game, in her favorite leaf-
browns, gathered in a presentation bouquet
rich in the contrast of blazing waratahs,
boronia and native roses. The rooms were
banked with arum lilies and Iceland poppies,
and the only males were the Mayor, Mr.
Layton and his Valentino-like secretary,
Frank Crane.
Hundreds of the species turned up to the
meeting called by Lady Game in the interests
of the Crown-street Women’s Hospital. The
magnetic rendezvous was Government House,
and long before the curtain was timed to go
up every seat in the ballroom provided a
perch for a mother, past, present or future.
A ffite amid the lawns and flowers of
Elwatan, the Castle Hill home of the R. C.
Dixsons, had been decided on as a before-
Christmas money-raiser. The date, Novem-
ber 22, the only unbooked Saturday between
now and Christmas in Lady Game’s calen-
dar, was agreed on unanimously, for thereby
the Vice-reine can put social weight behind
the push-off. Knight Fred Waley’s hand-
some lady and the untiring Mrs. R, M.
Sly, who have worked for the Crown-street
institution, the first for 20 and the second
for 30 years, are leading the present fray,
with staunch supports in Mrs. Albert Little-
john and the hospital’s secretary, May
Mitchell.
In writing about Bessie Bardwell’s wed-
ding, this Letter named her bridegroom Dr.
Vivian Voss instead of Dr. Kerrod Voss.
Kerrod is the son of Vivian.
Padre Leonard Daniels, who literally
administers his parish around Wilcannia on
the wing, last week flew off with a nice bride
from Eastwood. She was Emily M. Tietkens,
and she walked up the local St. Philip’s on.
father’s arm smart in beige tailorings and
stone-marten furs. There were three
reverends to tie the knot, one of them being
S. J. Kirby, organising missioner of the
Bush Church Aid Society, under which the
bridegroom works. The bride will fly to her
new home at Wilcannia in the ’plane piloted
by her clerical bridegroom.
The news that the George Vivers couple
may shed the double harness that has lasted
20 years has filled Sydney with astonishment
and regret. Mrs. Vivers, who, as Irene
Marks, was said by our present King, then
the Duke of York visiting Australia, to be
one of the most beautiful girls he had ever
seen, is very popular. With the years her
friends in Sydney and in Europe grew into
battalions. Perhaps that is why she studies
languages so closely. All through the year
she keeps up her French and Italian conver-
sation. She knows much about art and
music, and the Chinese room in her former
flat at Toftmonks w r as considered perfect in
its black and gold decorations. Among her
1 prized possessions is a lace and amber fan
sent to her by the late Lord Carnarvon,
of Tutankhamen fame, at the time of her
marriage. She is the youngest of the Marks
family, Mrs. Steer Bowker is a sister, and
handsome Theo Marks a brother. Dr.
George Vivers, who never put into practice
the knowledge of medicine he acquired with
brilliant ease, is the owner of King’s Plains
in the Glen Innes district. He is good-
looking, a member of the best clubs, owns
some fine racehorses and a fleet of cars, is
as well-tailored as his wife is well-dressed,
and his intimates say, is an extremely like-
able chap.


One of the most dramatic scenes
ever recorded on the Screen.
From a "Fox" thriller , feat-
uring George O’Brien.
m
m
*m
Famous people everywhere rely
on Cream of Yeast for rapid
relief from pain and as a
lightning “ pick-me-up
Get up and Fight!
When you’re feeling “down” and “off color,” take care! Weakened
resistance invites real illness that may, for a time, put you out of the game.
Take Cream of Yeast and note the lightning benefit! Headachey feeling
gone; step brighter; a happy smile; a pep that makes you feel like whistling
the latest tune! Just take a couple of Cream of Yeast tablets now and
know the thrill of having the fight all your own way. Any chemist or
storekeeper sells Cream of Yeast, the constituents of which are prescribed
by leading medical authorities all over the world. Famous film-stars and
athletes say “Cream of Yeast gives Iron Nerves.” Try it and see the
great and immediate improvement in your health!
CREAM OF YEAST RESULTS ARE UNIQUE:
Cream of Yeast gives safe and rapid relief from Stomach troubles, Headaches, Nerve Pains, Colds, Rheumatism, Depression, Tired **V/orn” Feeling, Sleeplessness, etc.
It is excellent for Skin troubles. Cream of Yeast contains the best yeast procurable (with undestroyed vitamine-content), scientifically combined with other
valuable medicinal constituents prescribed by the highest medical authorities, in such proportion that benefit is certain and harm impossible. Cream of Yeast is made
in specially constructed rooms by one of the greatest chemical organisations in the world. More Cream of Yeast is sold in Australia than all other brands combined.
The Distributors definitely guarantee you satisfactory results or your money back. Ask your Chemist or Storekeeper for genuine Cream of Yeast.
vJhat Famous Medical Men Say
In an interview in one of the greatest newspapers in the
world, Dr. Victor Pauchet, a leading French Physician,
Commander of the Legion of Honour, recipient of the
Croix de Guerre, recommends Yeast as a remedy for
intestinal stagnation. He says :—“ Yeast ... is a food
rich in Vitamin B and increases vitality. It is thus a boon
to the health of humanity .”
In a London interview reported in another great news-
paper, Dr. Leonard Williams, Fellow of the Royal Society
of Medicine, educated in England, Scotland, France and 3
Germany, and well-known author of several books or '
Health, said :—“ I frequently see people who, though they
claim to be well, are nevertheless much below concert pitch.
m
• Ki
■IS,.
:-h, /, .
W : S°SS->S>.
<t>
’, ®J?V2infs*
y» »*S ,‘ e ,LK\ '<
nau oA.
w
They are not ill, but they ail. For such people I should recom-
mend less feasting and more yeasting ! Yeast is more than a
medicament —it rouses the system to full physiological efficiency
of assimilation”
Eta*
mm
x
£
m
mmm
AT THE LEFT George O’Brien, talented Fox Star,
casts an expert eye at the golf clubs. See him in
“ Speakeasy,” a night-life drama. Follow the film-stars’
example —Exercise and Cream of Yeast !
AT THE RIGHT we introduce you to Rex Bell, a real
Fox hero of the “wild and woolly West.” Does he
take Cream of Yeast ? . . . Well, look at that smile !
Take Cream of
Yeast yourself for
Thrilling Health !
Take it for Head-
aches, Indigestion,
Sleeplessness, Bad
Nerves, Poor Complexion. Any Chemist can
supply you. 24 Tablets, 1/11, 48, 3/6,
125 for 5/9.
AT THE RIGHT is
pretty June Marlowe,
“Universal” featured
player. She says Cream
of Yeast is wonderful
when feeling “ below
par.”
m
m
r-'s*
r
!
L REAM
°f Yeast
Thrilling Health /
CREAM
YEAST'


THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
contains everything that women'
should know—from kitchen, to
drawing-room, from cradle to
old age. It is the most remark-
able threepenny - worth ever
printed.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
3d.
Wentworth Hotel’s New Tariffs
Single Room, Bed and Breakfast, from 12/6
Single Room, Bath, Bed and Breakfast, from 157-
Single Room, Inclusive, from 207-
Single Room, with Bath, Inclusive, from 22/6
Double Rooms are charged at Double Rates.
Private Suites Quoted on Application.
EVERY SATURDAY.
Dinner Dances, from 7.30 12/6
Supper Dances, from 8.30 8/6
Or a la Carte.
Afternoon Tea Dansant, from 3.30 3/"
me WENTWORTH
Church Hill, Sydney
Melbourne
Chetter
Buckley's
Clizabetlran
Tea Rooms
P[?]
B[?]
B[?]
The flat country between the city and
Williamstown, usually dusty and grassless,
is clad with verdure these days, thanks to
the rain, and the drive to the racecourse
on Saturday was quite enjoyable. Even the
rifle-range looked picturesque. After a long
spell of dreary weather the glorious sun-
shine of a spring day cheered the spirit to
a degree that even the defeat of favorites
couldn’t quench. On the course beds of
pansies made splashes of purple beneath
cypress-trees. The parking area was packed
with cars, and the trains on the other side
of the course brought contingent after con-
tingent of patrons. In the committee room
daffodils and Iceland poppies rubbed petals
with mauve pansies and irises arranged m
golden baskets.
Among occupants of the members’ stand
were Mayoress Luxton, all in black, a choice
shared by Mrs. U. J. Nicholas, Mrs. Albion
Walkley and secretary J. F. Nagle’s wife.
Mrs. E. McCaughan, who was with Mrs.
Percy Dobson, was smartly apparelled in
grey tweed with a nattier-blue felt hat. The
Percy Blackbourns, she in a black suit with
a tie spot of white, were accompanied by
Mrs. Stewart Ferguson, whose powder-blue
attire had a bordering of squirrel fur. Mrs.
W. P. Mein and Mrs. Ormiston were there,
also Mrs. A. V. Kewney, Alister Clark,
chairman of M.V.R.0., and -A.. V. Hiskens,
who now does double duty as secretary of
the V.A.T.C. and Moonee Valley R. C.
Sir Otto Niemeyer had his first glimpse of
racing at Flemington on a day when the
attendance was a lot below normal, so he
didn’t get the full flavor, as it were, of our
devotion to sport. That dour old person
General Depression was responsible for some
of the falling-off. Members had to pay
their annual subs, just before the meeting,
and quite a number of tickets weren’t re-
newed. Now you know how badly the
slump has hit our very best people.
Students of the Emily McPherson College
of Domestic Economy, believing that all
work and no play makes Jill a dull girl, had
a night out last week in the Ethel Osborne
Lecture Hill, where there was a shuffling
of shoes in syncopated rhythms and of cards
in bridge. Mrs. Georgie Collie, in pastel
blue, sponsored the dance. Eileen Coxon,
who was hon. sec., and Kathleen Grant
Stephenson, who held the purse, took a seri-
ous view of their duties and danced in black
lace. The principal of the college, Royena
Chisholm, was one of the party, wearing
pale-green satin traced with gold embroidery.
Ex-students of Loreto had a dance at No.
9 last week. The president of the Old Girls’
Association, Mrs. G. Coffey, held a presen-
tation posy against her black lace gown, and
Mrs. R. Usher, in filmy lace linked to black
moire, shared the secretarial duties with
Cassie Duane, whose caped frock of white
georgette showed a glitter of crystal.
St. Peter’s, Eastern Hill, which is to Mel-
bourne what St. George’s, Hanover-square,
is to London, was filled to the doors, with
an overflow assemblage outside, when Lucy,
daughter of the Frank Stogdales, of Arma-
dale, became the wife of Dr. Charles Howard
Osborn, of Malvern, last week. The bride
wore a trained gown of parchment-tinted
velvet with embellishments of Brussels lace
and her veil descended from a circlet of
pearls. Orchids and orange-buds were clus-
tered in a shoulder spray. Satin frocks of
the new pale gold hue and gold lace hats
garbed the bridesmaids —Edna Dikkenman,
Esme Frankenberg and Mollie Neil. The
bride’s small cousins Geoff and Ann Leighton
were trainbearers. Congratulatory speeches
were made at the Windsor.
Lt..-Col. F. W. White and officers of the
Sixth Battalion gave a dance at No. 9 at
the week-end. Mrs. White, in floral-patterned
chiffon of autumn tints, assisted her husband
in acknowledging greetings at the saluting
base on the ballroom’s brink. The battalion s
colors, crimson and purple, figured in the
decorations, and trophies won in war and
peace by Melbourne’s oldest _ infantry unit
were proudly displayed. Brigadier-General
Brand and his wife were there, she in pat-
terned diaphanous raiment in amber and
lapis lazuli tints. Mrs. C. E. Armstrong
danced in almond green. Major-General
Grimwade, Brigadier-General Foott, Lt.-
Col. and Mrs. Whittam and Lieut, and. Mrs.
A. N. Ray were others who took part in the
jollo.
Jessie, daughter of the S. R. Macplier-
sons, of Tongala station, Jerilderie (N.S.W.j,
came to Melbourne to. wed Ivor, son ot
E. S. Ryan, of Kew. The bride mur-
mured her responses in a froth of white
tulle floating over a flared gown of ivory
faille, an old-time material lately returned
to favor. Attending her was her sister
Peggy, in a satin frock of the hue of Parma
violets.
The Commercial Travellers’ Association
gave a children’s party at the Town Hall on
a recent afternoon, when a thousand young-
sters had the time of their lives. The bail-
room was fitted up as an indoor playground
with a chute, a merry-go-round and other
such contraptions beloved of small boys and
girls. The president of the association, W.
Williams, and vice-president G. A. A. Hen-
nett ran the show, aided by June Mills,
who masqueraded as a black mammy, and
some other funmakers.
Around the tea-tables in the large dining-
hall of tlie Myer stores last week manne-
quins of various shapes and sizes wandered
each afternoon preening plumage devised
for wear during the coming spring
and summer. Ensemble suits and one-piece
gowns in black and white featured promi-
nently in the parade. The somewhat higli-
waisted skirt was usually allied to a tuck-m
blouse with a coat, long or of moderate
length. Only in diaphanous materials were
skirts very ‘ long and flopping about the
ankles; in tailor-made modes the hems were
12 or 13 inches from the ground. In con-
trast to many skin-tight dresses were fussy
confections all billowy frills of tulle One
in white, piped with satin, and another a
love-in-a-mist creation with skirt of great
width, all little ruffles of blue, aroused
general admiration. With the new season
have come some exquisitely-colored satins in
hues of brown, pale gold and pink. Another
old shade that has renewed its youth is
vieux rose. The cape plays an important part
in the new fashions, serving as a detachable
wrap for evening wear, and compensating for
the absence of sleeves in flowered chiffons
or similar transparencies for out-door day-
time occasions.
An afternoon-tea party given by Briga-
dier-General Stewart’s wife at her home at
Elwood lately was made the occasion of _ a
private viewing of spring frocks and mil-
linery. One of our most exclusive and expen-
sive modistes arrived with two mannequins
and piles of pretty dresses, locally-made and
imported, and the show was a big success.
Mrs. Stewart, attired in lace and georgette
of biscuit tone, was heartily congratulated on
her novel idea.
This is Jean, daughter of the Victor
Hambletons, of Kew, just returned from a
tour of Europe with Mrs. Watson Brown,
of Sydney.
Miss Hamble-
ton, a con-
tra 11 o who
graduated at
the Albert-
street C o n.,
h a d lessons
while abroad
from Plunkett
Greene. She
saw the open-
ing perform-
ance of the
Passion Play
at Ober a m-
mergau, and
attended
opera and
concerts in
many coun-
tries. Having
been a mem-
ber of the
cliorus in the
Firm’s two most recent grand-opera seasons,
she was in a position to make comparisons
regarding staging and dressing, and her con-
clusion was flattering to Australia. She
thought “Turandot,” for instance, as put on
in Paris, not nearly as well done’ as it was
in Australia.
Sheets or blankets for bed or baby’s cot
were the passports to the Town Hall on
a recent afternoon, when Mrs. James Alston,
president, and the committee of the Women’s
Hospital regaled gift-bringers with tea and
music. There was a regular mountain of
parcels at the end of the afternoon. Mayoress
Luxton, who brought an offering, said
“Thank you” for a posy that brightened her
black ensemble, and Mrs. Alston, in black
and white, acknowledged a similar tribute,
Walter Kirby, Herbert Browne and Bernard
Manning furnished vocal entertainment.
Flowers from Mrs. J. S. Oliver’s garden
were sold for the cause.
Lady Somers, who has been on the sick-
list for a week or so, took up her philan-
thropic interests again last week by presid-
ing at the annual' recording of the Lady
Northcote Free Kindergarten, now 20 years
of age and rejoicing in a very creditable
record of achievement.
Lady Somers last week visited the new
Roman Catholic hostel for girls known as
St Anne’s Hall. There are already about
80 girls in residence, accommodation having
been arranged for 156. After the sister-in-
charge and the president, Mrs. T. C. Bren-
nan, had escorted her Ex. over the building,
tea was poured in one of the lounges, which
was decked with Iceland poppies. Mrs.
Brennan, on behalf of the committee, thanked
Lady Somers for her interest in the institu-
tion, and the hon. sec, Mrs. J. J. Daly,
who handed the visitor a posy of pink car-
nations, gave details of the money spent on
the place, which amounted to £65,000. Intro-
ductions to members of the committee and
some friends of the hostel —among the latter
was Prof. Masson’s lady—were made after
a tour of inspection that ranged from the top
storey to the laundry in the basement.
Kubelik made his frigid bow on Saturday
at the Athenaeum, on a stage fringed with
cinerarias and primulas. The audience was
large and clamored frequently for encores.
In the first-night throng were pianist
Edward Goll with his daughter Marie,
General Monash, the Allen lady, Mrs. H.
Emmerton, who sported a short coat of
ermine, Mary Emmerton, a bevy of Taits,
Mrs. A. Scott, and that inveterate concert-
goer Thomas Brentnall. The temperature
did not permit of the shedding of wraps, but
it was for the most part a well-dressed audi-
ence. There was a plentiful showing of
white fur collars.
The marcelled locks and pensive expres-
sion pictured here by Jack Cato belong to
Eileen, daughter of the Edward Johnstones,
of Footscray.
The talented
young miss
scored an out-
standing suc-
cess in the
P v o sccnium
Club’s presen-
t a tio n of
“P a s s i n g
B r o mpton
R o a d,” i n
which she was
cast as a wow-
ser —or should
it be wowser-
e s s ? who
wasn’t. Her
quick change
from prudery
to the manners
of the sporty
section of
modern society
was very
effectively managed. Since the comedy per-
formance Miss Johnstone has earned further
laurels with an elocutionary recital. She
is one of Louie Dunne’s students.
The Uni. Con. Old Students’ Association
welcomed Kubelik with speeches, music and
coffee in the Tallis wing of Melba Hall on
Friday night. The president, Sutton Crow,
and Bernard Heinze said complimentary
things about the guest of honor, and Miss
Morfyn Jones contributed pianoforte solos.
Kubelik was in the audience at the Bijou
for the second night of the Albert-street
Corn’s season of opera. The fiddler, who
was accompanied by Claude Kingston, was
given a round of applause on his arrival, and
bowed his thanks. Mrs. Fritz Hart, and
John Tait joined him later. Dr. and Mrs.
Reg Ellery, Mrs. P. Lucini, Eileen O’Keefe
and baritone Herold Kyng and his wife were
there.
The recently-appointed headmaster of Gee-
long Grammar School, J. R. Darling, was
speechmaker at a luncheon party of about
a hundred members of the Victoria League
Club, held at the Windsor on Friday, when
daffodils decorated the tables. “Education
and the Empire” was his subject. Professor
Allen’s lady, vice-president of the Victoria
League; Col. Maudsley’s lady, who is presi-
dent of the club; and Mrs. Stanley Addi-
son, the league’s hon. see., received the
guests.
, Lady Betty Rous, the Stradbroke girl
who has got engaged to a member of a well-
known Ulster family, is the youngest of the
farming earl’s offspring. She was the inno-
cent cause of a good deal of ill-feeling when
her sister Pleasance married an Irish wire-
less operator. The “Herald” sent , a reporter
to Government House, Macedon, where
Lady Betty was, and the young woman
naively “spilt the beans,” as they say in
Hollywood, with regard to her people’s views
of their new relative. She is dark and
graceful; was popular with Melbourne girls
of her own age such as Wilma Clarke and
Betty Moule, and might have shone socially
but for the dominating presence of her for-
midable mother’.
Edmund Jowett, who is the latest to call
Parliamentarians robbers in public, has
borne a dejected appearance of late.
He was not always so. Time was when he
footed it at every public ball with the
gayest, and shared with Willie Kelly the
distinction of having a dancing partner at
a substantial retaining fee. The terpsi-
chorean art, as interpreted by Mr. Jowett,
was a model of grave decorum. Four steps
and a graceful sideways kick of the lett
foot; four more and a graceful flick of the
right foot —so he would circumnavigate ball-
rooms by the hour. A statistician once
estimated that he covered 8000 miles and
executed over 3,000,000 flicks per annum,
but that was in the care-free days before the
slump arrived.
The engagement of divinely fair little
Wilma Clarke and Bill Seymour is the cul-
mination of an old romance. They wanted
to get married five years ago. but her hard-
hearted father said no. He liked the cheery
young sailor-man. Everybody did. However,
the Clarke men are serious characters —
M.L.C.’s and the like—and the handsome
Forster A.D.C. did not appeal to them as a
world-worker, present or prospective. His
father, Lord Victor Seymour, is a clergy-
man, an uncle of the present Marquess of
Hertford, and related by marriage to the
Royal family, and extremely popular at
Court.
Romola Hansen, who came by. ’plane from
Sydney to take the leading role in the JNew
Moon’* owing to the sudden illness of Marie
Bremner, played the part very successfully.
Six months ago this Australian lassie under-
studied Miss Bremner, and though she had
no chance of another rehearsal, practically
stepping from the ’plane tO' the stage for the
matinee, she made a hit from the very out-
set. Armsful of flowers rewarded her at
the final curtain, and she had to make a
speech. Other newcomers to the cast are
Frank Bradley, who takes the place of Cecil
Ivellaway, and Mona Potts, who replaces
Marie La Varre.
For its thirtieth annual performance the
Melba Con. Opera Society staged Mozart’s
“II Seraglio” and Fritz Hart’s “Ruth and
Naomi.” During the four-night season at
the Bijou Theatre, the casts were frequently
altered, for the society is rich in soloists and
aims to give them all a chance of glory.
Both pieces were capably staged and dressed,
Mrs. Fritz Hart, who designed the costumes,
achieving some very artistic color effects.
In “II Seraglio” the trousered raiment of
the Turkish ladies was topped with feathered
head-dresses. In the biblical play, the draped
and swathed attire was made interesting by
cleverly devised contrasts and blendings.
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Weston, of Sandring-
ram, who came from London about 16 years
'ago, celebrated the fiftieth year of their
matrimonial partnership a few days ago.
In England Mr. Weston was an actor, having
graduated from vaudeville to Shakspearean
roles. The jubilee was the occasion of a
reception and dance at Sandringham Town
Hall, with decorations in auriferous tints.
Both Mr. and Mrs. Wieston look many years
younger than the general run of great-grand-
parents. Mr. Weston still sings in a church
choir, and his wife leavens her domestic
duties with croquet. Their daughter Eunice
teaches dancing, and her pupils gave a sample
of their art at the party.
Mrs. li. Williams, wife of Air-Commodore
Williams, who is president of the Air Force
Officers’ Wives and Mothers’ Association,
greeted Mrs. Munro Kerr when the Rear-
Admiral’s wife was invited to tea last week.
Mrs. H. Warland and Mrs. Carter were the
official hostesses, and Nora Collisson talked
about the League of Nations. There was
also some music.
General Johnston’s daughter Gwen, a very
successful rider in hunt club point-to-point
races, had a victory by proxy last week when
her horse Indicate, ridden by J. J. Carlson,
was first in the principal event of the Oak-
lands Hunt Club’s meeting at Moonee Valley.
Alister Clark, the chairman of the V.R.C.,
handed the young lady a case of cutlery, and
the rider was rewarded with a whip. The
weather behaved decently and the dress dis-
play was a matter of well-cut tweeds. Miss
Johnston’s fawn and brown was topped by
a nigger felt hat.
Priminister Scullin’s wife snatched a few
minutes from her task of looking after a
sick husband and getting ready for ocean
travel to drink a farewell brew with th.e
Richmond branch of the Auxiliary of St.
Vincent’s Hospital. Mrs. T. J. Ryan, acting-
president of the general auxiliary, headed a
bunch of speakers who wished Mrs. Scullin,
who is president of the branch, the best of
luck and a safe return. A posy of blue
grape hyacinths and daffodils, representing
the colors of St. Vincent’s, were handed to
the guest of honor.
Under the leadership of Mrs. Callaghan
and Mrs. D. J. Hoban the Brighton, Garden-
vale and Bentleigh Auxiliary of St. Vincent’s
Hospital assembled 100 bridge-players in
George’s tearooms the other day, and added
£2B to the institution’s radium fund. Mrs.
R. J. Dunlea, Mrs. Cotchett, Mrs. Heming-
way, Sheila O’Brien and Mrs. R. Morton
had a share in the management.
Vera De Bavay was sufficiently recovered
from her appendix operation to set off by
the Nieuw Holland last week for recupera-
tion in Java.
The cineraria show in the conservatory of
the Fitzroy Gardens is so resplendent that
visitors flock in like bees every fine after-
noon. On Saturday there was a queue
of sightseers waiting - for admittance.


Monday to Friday,
A la Carte Dining and Supper
Service.
Minimum charge 7/6. Dancing till
1 a.m. Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY LATE GALA NIGHT.
Special Table d’hote Dinner, 21 /-
Special Supper from 10 o'clock,
12/6; or a la Carte, minimum, 12/6
Afternoon Tea Dansant—-
Monday to Friday, 3.30 to 5.30, 2/6
Saturday, 4/«
’Phone M 413 1 for your reservation.
3
BENGE a’S
(DFOOP ®
u vvww\ n A'wW' *
Food
E«ri Trade mark.
At Bedtime!
Benger’s Food makes a
delicious supper dish, soothing,
sleep-inducing and very
nourishing. It is also the best
light diet for all digestive
troubles.
From a Doctor: —
“Benger’s Food is the finest thing
to go to bed on.”
Write for booklet to BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
PLAIN AS A
PIKESTAFF
A
/
j
m
are the duplicates pro-
duced with a'Mephisto’
Copying Pencil.
It last? n uch lorger
and writes much
smoother without
heavy pressure.
Medium, Hard and
Extra Hard Degrees.
KEPHISTq
01 the popular
COPYING PENCILS
Also in 8 colours for checking etc.
From all Stationers, etc.
L. * C. HA.BDTMUTH. of “KOH-I-NOOR" Pencil fame.
London Office — X), Kingsway, W.C.2
Australian Representative—
JOHN MACDOTJGALL, P.O. Box 165. SYDNEY.
THIRTY PIECES OF SILVER
By Montague Grover
ILLUSTRATED BY PERCY LINDSAY
Synopsis : In the coastal town of
Illawarra Jimmy Packington, an
orphan, is "brought up by Mary West,
a rosy-cheeked spinster so motherly
that she is generally known as “Mrs.”
Early she leads him into the habit of
using his head to think with, which
he does so effectually that he heads
the scholarship list in the local school's
annual examination. His foster
mother, however, is too poor for him
to be able to take advantage of the
free education offering, and, though
his teacher described him to the in-
spector as one of the most promising
boys he had handled, Jimmy begins
shovelling at C. J. Grey and Co.'s
coke works, where he quickly wins
fame as a boxer. He also attracts the
interest of Basil Wellington, an
Oxford man who is running the local
“Guardian,” and who coaches him for
night school. While he is at work
one day a party which includes Grey
and two daughters and Major Dal-
gety, manager of the Keira Main Coal
Co., comes on a tour of inspection.
Jimmy sees Alma Grey and at once
idealises her as the unattainable. He
meets her some time later when, surf-
ing, she is carried out to sea by an
undertoiv, and he goes out and helps
in bringing her safely to shore. The
fact that he is shovelling coke, how-
ever, prevents the girl’s father from
encouraging Jimmy, though Alma and
her sister and Mrs. Grey like him,.
Jimmy, who has several of his verses
published in a city paper, the radical
“Ishmael,” subsequently meets May
Harland, a bright, energetic girl, who
has converted, Mrs. Blessington's shop
in Illawarra into a paying business.
Jimmy is training for a boxing tour-
nament, for which his friend Patsy
Quirk is also an entrant.
CHAPTER X.
\V a bout that surf?” asked Jimmy
\y as he strolled into the shop the
week after their first meeting to
demand a milk-shake. “I’m beginning to
think you can’t shoot at all.”
“I couldn’t have made much of a hit
then,” returned May, “for I’ve been down
every afternoon this week and I’ve taken
some beauties.”
“What luck! I can only get down in
the mornings.”
She had forgotten that he was on the
night shift. She looked at him with half
a smile.
“Perhaps I could get off in the morning,
sometimes,” she observed slily.
“To-morrow, then?” he asked. She pre-
tended to think hard for a moment just to
tease him.
“To-morrow, then,” she assented. “I’ll
be along about twelve. Navy with a yellow
cap if you don’t recognise me. People tell
me I don’t look half as well in the water.”
Before he could frame a comment that
would be complimentary without being
trite, she had dashed off with another of her
little laughs to another table.
Next morning May swept out of the sheds
like a valkyrie. Her lines were as near
perfection as anybody with a sense of
beauty could desire. The season was only
beginning, and, like most fair people, she
lost her tan in the winter; her arms and
legs were of the same mottled cream as her
face. She showed no pallor of apparent
ill-health, like so many surfers at the
beginning of the season.
“I’m here,” she announced as she cast
herself beside Jimmy on the sand, “and
you didn’t know me till I was right beside
you.”
“It’s rude to contradict a lady, but I’ve
been watching for that navy costume for
the last half-hour—and I’d have recognised
you if you had come out in a pink with
purple trimmings.”
“Ugh! You horrid boy; pink and
purple!”
Jimmy found that she had not boasted
idly of her shooting powers. There were
few men on the beach who could take a
breaker with the same certainty. Her judg-
ment was superb. She would swim out,
turn, give a couple of hard kicks and come
in right over the crest of the wave, head and
breast out of the water, the spirit of a
moving, living cataract.
“It’s good,” she panted, rising in the shal-
lows. “But give me a board.”
“It’s a bargain; I’ll give you one if you’ll
accept it.
“Really!” She sent the dimples across her
wet face. “You’re a dear.”
“I’ll give you two boards,” announced
Jimmy.
“One’ll do, thank you,” she said. Then
putting her mouth close to his ear she
whispered; “but I’ll call you a dear again
just the same. Now, I won’t call you a
dear at all if you do that”—as Jimmy lifted
her over a wave, he gave her a squeeze—
“l don’t want lifting over the waves. I
know just about as much of the surf as
you do.”
Jimmy became cautious. It was a safe
day, so he deserted his post, rendering him-
self liable to a fine of half a crown, to
swim out with May, far beyond the
breakers, to tempt all the sharks of the
Pacific.
When they had finished his relief was
there, and they went to their respective
sheds. To his delight, he found that she
was dressed almost as soon as he. They
walked up the town together. He found
her a big reader. She knew nothing of
Spencer or the economists, and she found
that Jimmy’s knowledge of fiction was
limited to Dickens and Scott and the other
Victorians who were included in Mary
West’s collection. But the poets found
them a common meeting place. She knew
Gordon almost by heart, and, strangely for
a woman, was enthusiastic over the humors
of “Banjo” Paterson.
She touched on the subject of music and
found Jimmy profoundly ignorant. He
waxed enthusiastic over songs which
she held in contempt. Irving Berlin to him
represented the very zenith of the art.
Mozart and Schubert and Beethoven he
knew as printed names, but he pronounced
Beethoven with the English th and as if
the word rhymed with “oven.”
“Oh Jimmy, you’re really awful!” she
said one Sunday evening when he and Mary
West had visited the shop to listen to May’s
playing. They had soon passed the “Miss
Harland-Mr. Packington” stage.
“Listen to this,” ordered May, and she
threw her very soul into an interpretation
of one of Lizst’s rhapsodies. Jimmy studied
the pattern of wallpaper. “Well?” she
demanded at the final chord.
“Let’s have some real music now,” said
Jimmy. “I can’t say I’m struck on German
substitutes. Give us ‘Get Out and Get
Under’; that’s a song for you—the music
gets just the spirit of the thing. If you’re
in the right mood, there’s a thrill in every
note.”
May made what she intended should be
an ugly face, blit it Wasn’t. She banged
out the ragtime while Jimmy’s feet and
shoulders moved to the rhythm.
“Who’s the Catholic organist here?” she
asked Mrs. Blessington as she finished.
“Why, you’re not a Catholic!” observed
her employer, in rather a shocked tone.
May gurgled. “I don’t know what I am.
But the Catholics are the ones for singing,
and I don’t want to drop mine.”
During her past year in Sydney she had
done all that a girl in her position could
do to train her voice. Its quality had led
to her being accepted in the choir of one of
the Catholic churches, and the organist, a
man susceptible to smiles and dimples, had
taken considerable trouble over her.
None of them had known that May could
sing. They asked her.
“Here’s something which isn’t altogether
bad without being over your head, Jimmy,”
she said, running her hands over the keys
for the introduction of “Two Eyes of
Grey,” and then raised a voice that made
them look at one another in amazemenr.
Its handling would probably have dissatis-
fied an expert; but to the audience of
three it had reached the stage beyond which
improvement was possible. It was a full
soprano, clear and full of magnetism and
sympathy and without a shake from be-
ginning to end. There was no effort in
her singing in either the highest or the
lowest notes. The volume of her voice
was so great that in the confined area it
almost hurt their ears, a fact she recognised
after the first bar and modified.
“My word, May, you’re some singer,”
cried Jimmy. “You ought to be on at the
Follies.”
“You be.ast!” she cried. “You spoil it
all. The Follies!” she added contemptu-
ously. The Follies was the principal house
for vaudeville in Sydney, and to Illawarra
it represented the last word in lyric repu-
tation.
Jimmy didn’t know what he had done.
He thought he had paid the highest compli-
ment. Once, during a trip to Sydney, he
had spent an evening at the Follies and
that there could be singing of a higher class
seemed ridiculous.
But May wasn’t really angry. In a
moment she smiled. “We’ll put it down
to his ignorance,” she remarked to Mary
West. There was no time for another song;
it was nearing seven, the hour to which
such shops may keep open on Sunday even-
ings. The concert had to be closed.
May found the organist, astounded him
both by her voice and by her facility in
reading music, and was cheerfully welcomed
to the choir, with an apology that the
leading soprano was a lady of such long
association with the church that he could
not ask her to accept a secondary place.
“Don’t you think of doing such a thing,”
cried May, bringing all the artillery of
dimples into action. “If you dare, I’ll go
over to the Wesleyans or the Salvationists.”
Three days later Father Phelan called on
Wellington with a paragraph stating how
the church had secured the voluntary ser-
vices of Miss May Harland, who had
recently taken up her residence in Illawarra,
and whose magnificent voice had been the
feature of Sydney’s sacred music for the
past year.
“A very foine gurrl, a very foine gurrl!”
said Father Phelan.
“That’s so,” replied Wellington. “I’ve met
the lady and I thought so, too. Now I’m
glad to have my opinion backed by an
expert.”
“Ye blackguard!” laughed Father Phelan.
“But have ye the toime for a whisky?”
Wellington shook his head. “Not in work-
ing hours, Father,” he replied.
During the first three months of May’s
stay in Illawarra, Jimmy saw her frequently.
He had grown very fond of her; but he
was not in love with her. The fierce desire
to crush her to him and kiss her, which
earlier revelations of her beauty had in-
spired, had given way to a warm feeling
of comradeship.
Jimmy had never previously met a girl
who occupied precisely the same relation to
him. He could talk to her as he could to
a man. They were pals in the best sense.
Yet the position was not wholly sexless.
May would delight to tease him, to pout,
to look archly at him from under her brows,
to give him the gladdest of glad blue eyes.
He wasn’t afraid of her, as he had been of
Alma; yet he had never tried to kiss her.
He had never even put his arm around her
since she checked him the first day in the
surf, save only at the dances to which she
led him.
Jimmy had known nothing of dancing.
Though some of the hardest citizens of
Illawarra were confirmed dancers, he thought
it an effeminate pastime. But May
gave him no time to protest. She swept
him off his feet as she was doing with Mrs.
Blessington in business management. Jimmy
was taught to dance, bullied and disciplined
and forced until he could waltz without trip-
ping his partner, or two-step without tread-
ing on her toes.
May spent much time with him, but so
did she with other young men of the town.
He had seen her out in a car with Greave.
He had met her cycling to Bulli Pass with
the organist of the church. He had actually
seen her splash Father Phelan in the surf
and Father Phelan had giggled as if he
enjoyed it. She had been at one dance
with Bert Burnett, at another with Wally
Jackson, son of the chairman of the Keira
Main.
Jimmy was jealous, not because he was
in love with May, but because he grudged
the others the rare fragrance of her com-
pany. He thought far more often of May
than of Alma now. He never compared
them. May was an equal, a good fellow,
one of his own push who happened to
be a girl, though a very beautiful girl. Alma
was something of the stars and as un-
obtainable, but still to be loved from afar.
Towards the end of the summer, one off
night, Jimmy and May had been out to
the house of a friend a couple of miles along
the road to Wollongong. They had a
piano and May had sung—had sung, Jimmy
felt, as if she meant to reach right into
soul, had sung songs of love that sent his
brain throbbing. He had never seen her
more beautiful, he thought.
They had an impromptu dance and she
had nestled into his arms, it seemed to him,
as if she looked to them to hold her and
keep her. May seemed to lack her usual
gaiety and vivacity. He had not heard her
laugh that night. He had seen her smile,
but it was not the whimsical light-hearted'
smile that he knew so well.
When they left the house to walk home
at about 11 p.m. she was strangely
silent. Half a mile down the road she
stopped. In the moonlight, she faced him,
took his head in both her hands and kissed
him on the lips.
During the fraction of a second doubts
tumbled over one another in Jimmy’s brain.
Was her kiss just the spontaneous expression
of good-fellowship which might be given
by a girl of May’s joyous and irresponsible
temperament and lack of conventionality;
or was it a kiss of love, of passion?
But she was in his arms and he thought
no more. The undertow had caught them and
they were whirled deliriously into the blue
waters of happiness which are filled with
perils as cruel as the sharks and as deadly
as the sea itself.
CHAPTER XI.
There was a stranger in the room next
morning. Jimmy awoke with a start to
find him there. He had not encountered
him previously, but knew him at once by
instinct. He had walked in by right, as
the sheriff walks into the condemned cell.
The stranger’s name was Conscience.
Jimmy’s blood ran cold when he realised his
presence.
Jimmy saw his naked soul standing before
himself for judgment. He saw it as a poor,
shrivelled, whimpering thing, its whole
tremulous being reiterating its plea of guilty.
It excited no sympathy. In its repentance
it was mean and contemptible as it had
bjeen cruel and callous in its strength.
Jimmy felt disgusted.
And this loathsome thing was he. Yester-
day he had been proud, strong, clean,
courageous. Then the test had been made
and he had proved a cowardly weakling
who had wrought a grievous wrong.
Jimmy was no wowser. He was a young
man in a world of young men and young
women. But there were rigid boundaries
outside which the decent man could not
trespass, should not be ' tempted to tres-
pass. And he had not only trespassed, but
had invaded the very sanctity of the temple
he revered and had defiled its altar. He
had been intolerant towards the offender
of this type; such a man ought to be shot.
Then when he was called upon, he had
been found wanting; the steel had struck
the flint and in the spark had risen the con-
flagration with wreck and devastation in its
wake.
And May, above all girls! May his pal,
whom, in three brief months, he had grown
to know as he had never known a woman
before! There had been no secrets, no


THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY—Price 3d.
<r
free pattern
EVERY WEEK
PROVED !
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
reserves between them. And he had taken
advantage of a momentary impulse and
wrecked her life.
He had not even the excuse of the grand
passion, for he did not love May in the
sense that he had loved Alma. He had an
overwhelming admiration for her in every
w r ay—her mental side, her moral side, her
physical side. He had for her a deeper
affection than he had felt for anybody save
Mary West. And it had been he who had
done this! He did not think that May
loved him either. Her feeling towards him
was of the same type as his own. That was
the supreme tragedy. Of course he would
marry her; that was the only thing in
decency he could offer and he swore he
would devote his life to atoning for his
crime. But it would be a poor compen-
sation to offer a girl marriage with a man
whom she did not really love, however
highly she might regard him.
When he was leaving his room, he feared
to meet Mum. In his act was involved
treachery to her as well. Had she not
warned him to leave good girls alone—a
warning he had resolved to regard through
life—and he had failed, failed in respect to
one of the best, a girl who had had a
hard life, who came to their house, who
was Mum’s own friend.
He had to force himself to answer Mum’s
questions at breakfast, but fortunately she
failed to notice his disturbed condition. He
bolted his food. He must see May; before
anything, he must throw himself on her
mercy and assure her of his intentions to
do what was best. He was fearful of going
to the shop lest he might encounter Mrs.
Blessington. He felt that all knew him
for the creature he was and were staring at
him with contempt.
As he turned the comer of Kembla-street,
his heart leapt. There was May wearing
the same blue dress in which he had first
seen her. As she approached, amazement
came into his mind to relieve him a trifle.
May was not downcast, she was not desper-
ate, she was not broken nor suicidal nor
tearful.
She came up, her hand extended, with
the same smile and the same ripple of
dimples which had grown to be photo-
graphed in liis brain. He could scarcely
believe his eyes.
“Good morning, Jimmy!” she said, ad-
vancing with a step as firm and springy
as ever.
“Good morning, May,” he replied. She
squeezed his hand with deliberate affection
this time and took her place by his side
with an air of possession such as a newly-
married woman assumed towards her hus-
band. In other respects she was the May
of yesterday.
He ascertained that she was not on Urgent
business and led her towards the beach.
“May,” he began—it was difficult to begii
—“about last night. I want to say how
sorry I am.”
“That’s a nice thing to say,” laughed May
“I know I’m a rotter. Nothing you could
sa.y to me would be half so bad as I think
of myself. A thing like ,me ought to be
shot.”
“I’d like to see anybody try if I was
about,” cried May. “What on earth are
you trying to say, Jimmy?”
“I’m trying to say that I know I’ve acted
like a blackguard. I don’t know why I
did. But I want to ask you to many me.
It isn’t much of a catch to marry a black-
guard, I know; but it’s the only thing there
is for me to do.
May looked hard at him.
“You’ve been worrying, Jimmy?”
He forced a laugh. “Worrying? Yes,
but I haven’t suffered a millionth part of
what I deserve.”
They were outside the town now, on the
cliff overlooking the surf beach, and had sat
on the grass under the shade of the tea-
trees. She made him raise his eyes to
hers.
“Jimmy,” she said, “you are a kid. But
I do love you for being one. You’re wast-
ing a whole lot of good pity on me. I’m
not one to be pitied. I don’t want to be.
I don’t like talking about certain things,
but you force me to, when I see you suffer-
ing from delusions like this. I suppose
I’ll hurt you a little more by what I’m
going to tell you, but it’ll only be one
hurt, not a continuous one. I’m not the
innocent village maiden who’s been led
astray. I’ve had lovers before you—lovers
like that.”
“What!” cried Jimmy. “You, May?”
“Yes, me, Jimmy. Now it’s your turn
to despise me.”
“Despise you, May! Never! I don’t
want you to tell me any more.”
With the illimitable vanity of man,
Jimmy hated May’s earlier lovers with a
bitterness that was fanatical. They cer-
tainly ought to be shot. “Many a good
girl meets a bad man when she’s too young
to discriminate,” he said. “I’m sure you
must have had ample excuse.”
“The same excuse that we had last night,
Jimmy,” she replied. “They weren’t bad
men, either. It’s easy for a sensible girl
to dodge the bad men. It’s the good that
beat you.”
He remembered Mum’s advice “Let the
good ones alone and the bad ones alone;
there’s plenty in between.” So May was
one of those in between.
The stranger who had stood at Jimmy’s
bedside was in full flight. Jimmy recovered
his spirits. Once more he delighted again
in May’s dimples and her smiles.
Before they went back he kissed her
behind a clump of bushes and refused to let
her go until she had kissed him three
times more. A weight was removed. He
was the victim of peine forte et dure, re-
prieved as the last weight was about to be
placed on his chest. He almost pranced
down Kembla-street on his way home to
lunch.
“What ho, Elijah!” he called to Moon
as the reformer passed. “You’re a gay
dawg—always after the girls.”
“What ’ope is thur fur th’ emancipation
o’ the’ proletariat when yous young fellers
are too lazy ter think, an’ spend yer time
in makin’ silly persiflidge!” demanded
Moon. “Persiflidge” was Moon’s latest
favorite word. He liked it almost as de-
votedly as “lairs and pennuts,” without
“In the moonlight she faced him, took his head in both her hands, and
kissed him on the lips.”
which no speech of his could be regarded
as really complete.
Jimmy was whistling “On the Missis-
sippi” as he banged the gate behind him
and bounded on the verandah.
“You seem to be particularly jolly to-day,
Jimmy,” said Mary. “Good surf running?”
Jimmy had forgotten all about the surf.
He had deserted in the face of the enemy.
If anybody had been drowned the respon-
sibility would fall on him. Then he re-
membered how the beach looked from the
headland and was reassured.
“Didn’t go in this morning,” he replied.
“Did you and May have a good time
last night?”
Jimmy dodged a direct answer. “She
sung great and we had a pretty fair dance
after.”
Mum smiled quietly into her teacup. She
had noted their interest in each other.
She loved the girl and looked forward to
the time when she would be Jimmy’s wife,
It was a happy winter that followed. May
took possession of Jimmy and it was re-
garded as a foregone conclusion that they
would eventually be married. He was still
on the night shift at the ovens and he
continued to contribute verses to the various
journals. Of late he had been writing a
weekly column of prose for Wellington, a
column summing up the political and in-
dustrial events of the day. Under the
signature “Jean Jacques Junior” it allowed
of expressions of opinion which Wellington
could not use in his leading columns. The
policy of the paper was not committed to
what Jean Jacques might say.
At the outset Wellington was chary about
accepting the copy. The paper could not
afford to pay for contributed matter; yet
he did not wish Jimmy to think his copy
was not good enough for insertion. Jimmy
told May of Wellington’s hesitation. She
saw trouble at once.
“You silly boy, Jimmy; you’re awfully
clever and all that, but you’re absolutely
blind in some things. A paper like the
'Guardian’ can’t afford to pay like 'The
Ishmaelite’ and the other big ones in the
city.”
“I don’t want him to pay. I wouldn’t
take anything, after all he’s done for me.”
“Have you told him so?’
“No.”
“Then how’s he to guess?” asked May.
“Do you think he’s got an X-ray eye or
what? Oh Jimmy, you are a kid. I’m ever
and ever so much older than you. If you’re
eighteen I’m eighty at least. I wonder if
you II ever grow up.” She looked quizzi-
callj' at him. “I hope you won’t in some
things, she add6d, pulling his head over
and kissing him. “Now you go off and
make plain that you don’t want any-
Wellington was only too pleased to get
the copy It was good—so good that the
editor felt qualms about continuing to take
it. Here and there it was a trifle violent,
a trifle highly colored a trifle over-confident
as to the purity of the motives of sundry
leader* of Labor. But it was not bigoted.
Jimmy would find holes inthe Labor
ai-mor and give the knight within a prick
which made him wince and cry Treachery.”
Moon, for instance, denounced the youthful
journalist—“too late for the baby show,”
he added—for “coakwettin’ with capitalism
and vilyfyin’ th’ tribunes o’ th’ people.”
Jimmy was still heart and soul with the
cause. He sought the holes in the armor
solely that Labor might see to their repair.
There was trouble among the hundred or
so cement-mixers at Kembla and eventually
they downed tools, and the people of Aus-
tralia learned of their existence at the
breakfatet table. One of them was an
Illawarra man, a schoolfellow of Jimmy, and
from him Jimmy learned that the men had
a serious grievance, a grievance calculated
to swing to their side the public opinion
which really decides all strikes. But a
day before this man’s arrival, Moon in
his official capacity, had made a statement
°f the case for publicity purposes. In the
light of his new information, Jimmy found
that Moon had utterly mistaken the posi-
He was ignorant of the real griev-
ances and, jumping to erroneous conclu-
sloas > had resorted to violence and bitter-
nes®- The company would surely issue a
smashing to fragments the fabric of
Moon s arguments and leaving the public
laughing in amused indignation over what
deemed to be the trivial nature of the
sb’me. Jimmy wrote the facts and took
them to Wellington.
The editor scanned it. “This isn’t Jean
Jacques stuff, Jimmy,” he said. “This is
news. If you don’t mind, I’ll send it along
to Sydney to-night.”
Wellington was the local 'correspondent of
the “Times,” one of the leading dailies.
The “Times” starred the item. The state-
ment from the company, anticipated by
Jimmy, followed, and the discrepancies were
so flagrant that there was an editorial re-
bilking the company for its attempt to
throw dust in the eyes of the public.
The strike was settled in favor of the
men within a week and Elijah Moon was
held up as a master-strategist. By pre-
tending to be a fool, it was said he had
led the company into a trap. The’directors
of the company had the same idea.
“That, damned swine Moon was too smart
for us that time,” commented the chairman
“I thought he was only a windbag. We’ll’
have to watch him in future ”
Elijah Moon’s name b to be re _
peated among the heads * f the g dr Jf
Trades Hall The Id t y J
a man of such ability to waste his a J ta ™ e
sweetness on the de / ert air of mX
(Continued on page 46.)


ASSURED
POSITIONS! BETTER MONEY!
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and
enter a profession where there is a certainty of employment are advised to
send for our prospectus. Here is one profession where the supply is not equal
to the demand. NOW is the time to begin.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
*1
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Orescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1684 of 1929.
BETWEEN WILLIAM HECTOR McCREDIE Petitioner
And UNA LOIS McCREDIE Respondent.
To UNA LOIS McCREDIE late of Beach-street
Coogee. , .
TAKE . NOTICE that the abovenamed William
Hector McCredie has commenced ,a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for a dis-
solution of marriage on the grounds of desertion
for three years and upwards AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that you are required to enter an Appear-
ance to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on .or before the seventh day of
November one thousand nine hundred and thirty
and in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion may be had on application to the undersigned
solicitors free of charge.
Dated this seventh day of August, 1930.
For the Registrar,
[l.s.] C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
R. C. CATHELS & JONES, Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner, 28 Martin Place, Sydney.
Auction Sale.
DUCYRUS STEAM SHOVEL and Drag
■O Line, in A 1 order, in use for only three
weeks. To be auctioned with other Con-
tractor’s Plant at the Government Irriga-
tion Settlement, Theodore (Q.), September
2. Details on application to FRANK H.
DAWSON, Auctioneer, Rockhampton, Q.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
price .. 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know. '
Amusements,
QYDNEY'S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: FOLLOW THROUGH
CRITERION: COQUETTE
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
KING’S THEATRE:
LITTLE ACCIDENT.
COMMENCING AUGUST 30.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE NEW MOON.
LAST WEEKS.
UOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
* MELBOURNE.
ALL TALKIE PROGRAMME.
WM. HAINES in
THE GIRL SAID NO.
(Children over 6 and under 16 not admitted.)
ALSO
THE BISHOP MURDER CASE,
With BASIL RATHBONE and ROLAND YOUNG.
(Children over 6 and under 16 not admitted.)
Missing Friends.
Re FRANK GEORGE VAUGHAN—
Deceased.
\Y7ILL any person knowing the where-
W abouts of the next-of-kin of FRANK
GEORGE VAUGHAN (son of Gilbert
Vaughan and Minnie Power), aged about
44, who died at Granton, in Tasmania, on
November 22, 1928, please communeiate with
the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Hobart.
ALLEN, CHARLES WATERS KINGS-
TON, last heard of at Adelaide about
1922-23. Address wanted by Executor,
Trustee and Agency Company of South Aus-
tralia, Ltd., Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The littlest ones had the time of their
lives at the Children’s Party in Government
House ballroom. The effort, an annual one,
is part of the Kindergarten Appeal week.
Mrs. Jarley’s Waxworks acted nursery rhymes
on the dais. Mother Goose and her snow-
white gander rode in a chariot and pelted the
young fry with snowballs ; Mary, Mary, Quite
Contrary tended real grass in her picket-
fenced garden and sold balloons that bloomed
in the flower-beds. There was a cine-kodak
show, a well into which the wee tots let fall
buckets for a filling up of sweets and a
Ilumpty Dumpty simply begging to be
knocked off the wall. Dancing and tea-tables
loaded with shivery jellies and other tooth-
some morsels were other attractions. Among
the hundreds of fancy costumes two little
knights in suits of mail, a downy duckling
and a small maiden in the quilted ruchings
of great-great-grandmother’s day were notice-
able.
A batch of parties have been spread this
week for Rhona Marfleet. Chrissie Dodds
baked a cake two days before the wedding
bells rang and invited some friends to come
to bridge armed with a trifle for the bride’s
glory-box. Rhona wore black lace, and
Chrissie flowered chiffon under a chenille
jacket.
A Bardwell Clarke camera caught this
likeness of Leslie Atkinson, educationist
and idealist. Boys of school age are Mr.
Atkinson’s hobby; he loves nothing more
than to run in
a paper-chase
or go camping
with a batch
of healthy
young hope-
fuls . Last
year he was in
charge of Fair-
bridge Farm
School, and is
now training
the young idea
at Swan-
bourne. As
side-lines he
does fine craft-
work in wood,
brass and
leather, and
writes very
human little
sketches for the
“West Austra-
lian” under
the pseudonym of “Dominie Dee.” His wife
is a singer of note, and one of the organisers
of a scheme for the relief of unemployed
women and girls.
Margaret, eldest daughter of the Y. C. H.
Eagletons, of Swanbourne, has plighted her
troth with Frank Ross, of Riversdale, Frank-
land River.
The Hunt Club has booked September 9
for its ball in Government House ballroom.
Proceeds go to the Children’s Hospital. The
guineas are rattling in for tickets for the
Otranto • ball on September 22.
Though Temple Court cabaret is seldom
crowded there is usually a fair sprinkling
over the floor on Monday and Friday nights.
The band sandwiches old-fashioned tunes
with snappy jazz, and a polka or two puts
a romping spirit into the dancers. On a
recent night, with zamia-palm decking the
loges and dais, Lenore Kerr held her brunette
head above flame chiffons, Florence Mc-
Kenzie wore Nile-green, Mrs. Gordon Wils-
more’s taffetas were adorned with a spray of
red carnations, Betty Brockman wore sky-
blue organdie, small Judy Holland twinkled
silver slippers and tied a bluey-green sash
about her floral chiffons, Pat Smith was in
salmon-pink, Yvonne Renou in white and
Mollie Taylor in green georgettes.
An evening wedding in St. Luke’s, Cottes-
loe, was the choice of Rhona Marfleet and
Norman Finey. A glimmer of shell-pink
was the foundation of the bridal gown of
ivory georgettes, with fan-shaped godets of
lace let into the skirt. A swirl of tulle veil
descended to the floor. Dorothy Bird and
’groom’s sister Edna attended in dawn-pink
taffetas mistily scattered with rosebuds, bouf-
fant bows and scalloped hems brushing their
slippers.
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Rear-Admiral Evans and the officers of
IJ.M.A.S. Australia sent out numerous invita-
tions to a ball on the Australia, berthed at
Hamilton cold-storage wharf. Dancing was on
the quarter-deck, where canvas awnings
shut out the chill river air, and tasselled
Oriental lanterns swayed under a canopy
of pennants and flags. A map of Australia,
worked in red bougainvillaea, was set against
a pattern of English oak-leaves, framed in a
large Carle float. Loud speakers distributed
the music from a section of the Admiral’s
orchestra stationed aft. Admiral Evans,
Captain Chalmers, Captain 11. J. Feakes
(Albatross) and Lieut.-Commander Collins
(Anzac) received. The Governor and Lady
Goodwin were present during the evening.
Lady Goodwin was in gold-dust mariette,
shading from mastic to deep henna; Mrs.
Evans wore pink camellias with her sky-blue
moire; Mrs. A. E. Moore chose cyclamen
with overdress of silver and mauve; Doro-
thea Collins was in black velvet with a short
gold coat; Margot Reid (Sydney) wore
black panne velvet; Cecily Cadell-Garrick
was in rose and brown floral moire.
A grand finale to Show Aveek was the
Bachelors’ Ball in South Brisbane City Hall.
A Dutch garden was the scheme, outlined in
huge earthen jars filled with tulips. Orange
copings enclosed the vice-regal lounge, where
tall vases of Iceland poppies and white tulips
were set. Yellow wistaria and streamers
adorned the supper-room. A gold and bronze
basket filled with daffodils was on the table
for the Governor’s party, and for the feminine
guests were shoulder posies of lily of the
valley and pansies, with violet buttonholes for
the men. Lord and Lady Stonehaven sand Sir
John and Lady Goodwin were present, the
former pair joining the dancers.; Lady
Stonehaven was in black Chantilly mounted
on satin, and wore ropes of pearls. Lady
Goodwin was in beaten gold lace; Mrs.
E. R. G. Evans was in blush-rose moire;
Mrs. L. J. Brain in wine-colored lace;
Eileen Moore in green; Mrs. Jack Chandler
in black lace; Mrs. Dalton (Orange) in
gold lace with kingfisher-blue and gold
girdle; Sheilah Logan in rose-pink taffetas ;
Beres Corrie in blue.
The Carnival race meeting of the Q.T.C.
was largely attended, and all their Exes,
were there, to be entertained by the com-
mittee at luncheon. Lady Stonehaven wore
black mariette with a white gardenia posy
and a black Bangkok hat; Lady Goodwin’s
Lido-blue repp, had collar and cuffs of buff
fur and she wore a hat of brown velours.
Mrs. Roy Ross Munro wore brown; Mrs.
C F. White (Stanthorpe), bronze satin:
Mrs. de Burgh Persse, navy; Mrs. A. E.
Moore, navy and white pinspot; Ella
O’Shea was in buff with beige furs.
Their Exes, attended Admiral Evans’s lec-
ture in the City Hall, where Mrs. A. E.
Moore, Mrs. Evans, Mrs. Campbell, the
Mayor and Margaret Wilson, Una and Eileen
Bell and Norah H'alford joined the v.-r.
party. The lecture dealt with Scott’s last
Antarctic expedition and was given for the
benefit of the Girl Guides’ Association, the
Boy Scouts and the ex-naval men’s associa-
tion.
Nellie Bramley and her company had a
warm welcome on their return to the Theatre
Royal in “Fair and Warmer.” The popular
actress has lost a stone in weight and looks
very fit.
At the Church of the Holy Rosary at
Bundaberg, Selwyn Mellor married Angela
Marie, daughter of Mrs. Page and the late
G. J. Page. The bride was given away by
her brother in crepe mariette. Her brides-
maid was Genevieve Page, in floral silk
taffetas. The reception was at Goolangoor,
the home of the bride.
The “gate” at the 1930 Show slipped back
three years. Between 1925 and 1929 it
soared from £14,216 to £18,986; the turn-
stiles this month clicked to the tune of
£16,681, which is only £7 better than the
1927 figure.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Hobart has four free kindergartens, and
the voluntary workers for these institutions
engineered a big annual meeting and demon-
stration at the Town Hall. E. E. Unwin,
retiring president, is succeeded by Mrs.
Howard Buchanan, who has had experience
of this work in W.A. Amy Howie is the
new secretary. The movement starts on its
yearly way with an increase of 73 members,
but more funds are needed.
The Speck’s first wireless had
its christening party at 82 Elizabeth-street,
Premier McPhee holding the baby, so to
speak. Marie Landon and John Montfort,
ex-members of the Humphrey Bishop Musi-
cal Co., are resident entertainers and an-
nouncers. A larger station has long been
wanted, though 7ZL has always done good
work, and James Counsel’s lecturettes and
musical-record recitals have been above the
average broadcasting items.
The end-of-term dance given by the
Tas. University students at the Continental
was a cheery affair, where the young and the
very young enjoyed themselves immensely.
It was not hard to distinguish the sub-debs,
from their older sisters by the length of the
frocks, a pointer which has been lacking
during the last few knee-length years.
This is Mrs. R. Dixon, of New Norfolk,
who was re-
cently awarded
the highest
honor that can
be bestowed
by the Aus-
tralian Co n-
gress of the
R.S.S.I.L.A. —
the badge and
certificate
of merit for
war work.
Throughout
the war Mrs.
Dixon was an
unflagging
worker in the
soldiers’ inter-
ests, and ever
since she has
held the secre-
taryship of the
New Norfolk
branch of the
Red Cross Society. Col. Mullen, in present-
ing the badge, said, that it was the V.C. of
women’s war work.
His Ex. opened the combined Dog and
Poultry Show at the City Hall, but the
exhibits prevented him from getting a good
hearing. There were some very fine speci-
mens shown in both sections. Two women
dog fanciers, Miss M. Bowden and Miss F.
Allen, carried off challenge trophies; the
first for her Alsatians, the second for highest
honors in non-sporting breeds.
The Rep. Society’s play reading of “Am-
brose Applejohn’s Adventure” drew a good
audience. Catherine Cullinane produced the
piece, assigning herself the part of the fasci-
nating woman crook ; H'. Warlow Davies had
that of Ambrose. These shows are very
popular in days of theatrical famine.
Two well-known young Hobartians whose
engagement is announced are Dorothy,
youngest chick of Mrs. and the late R. E.
Bolimann, and Robert, only son of the
Robert Sharps, Fairlie, Lower Sandy Bay.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Attendances at the races are beginning
to reflect the general depression; there was
only a moderate gathering at the A.R.C.
meeting r at Victoria Park. Mr. James Hall
(chairman) and liis daughters entertained
at afternoon tea. Black cloth coats at
present seem the uniform wear, with close-
fitting black felt hats.
The Mayor and Mayoress attended the old-
style dancing annual fancy-dress ball at the
Palais Royal, and judged the costumes. As
all tlie comedy characters insisted on the
judges getting a “close-up” of them, things
became a trifle congested. The prize for the
best fancy dress, a gold wristlet watch, was
won by Josie O’Leary, in an old English
costume.
Flight-Lieutenant and Mrs. Guy Stanley-
Turner have arrived from England, and are
the guests of the lady’s parents, the Cecil
Brays, at Glenelg.
A pre-war fashion is being revived and
chaperones are once again to the fore; their
names are featured upon invitation-cards of
committee dances. A committee of the
younger set is giving a large dance in
the A.N.A. Hall next week, and the
Mayoress heads the list of chaperones. Pos-
sibly it is thought that a restraining hand
is wanted; a youth rang up the secretary of
a charity dance and pointedly inquired if it
was to be “wet or dry,” adding that he and
his party could only be counted on in the
former contingency.
One of the jolliest parties of the season was
held in the Town Hall in aid of the
Major’s fund. Mrs. Lavington Bonython,
assisted by a committee of the younger set,
was responsible for some original stunts, in-
cluding a Test match, with the players,
young men and maidens, in correct garb, and
the names of international players pinned on
their backs. The outstanding novelty,
however, was the meeting of Antony and
Cleopatra. Antony (Jack Bonython) materi-
alisedt, in a chariot drawn by a camel, with
a party of centurions in Roman dress, some
wearing firemen’s helmets and riding bicycles.
Ron Hone (over 6ft. and proportionately
broad) and Peter Cheadle fluttered their
wings as fairies, in white net and pink
roses. Cleopatra (Dave Goodhart) arrived
upon a clean-towel bicycle-cart followed by
her retinue. Mrs. Bonython, as a lady of
the Folies Bergeres, wore black tulle and
diamente, with scarlet ostrich head-dress and
feather fan to match. She appeared later as
Polly Peachem, in crinoline skirt, polka
jacket and a pork-pie hat, and with her
partner, Major L. E. Clarke, danced the_ old-
fashioned polka, in which the crowd joined.
There was bridge for the older folk in the
Mayoress’s reception room, but the frolics
in the main hall lured them from their
game to watch the show from the dress
circle.
AT THE BACK OF THE NORTH WIND.
Darwin.
Henry Jacomb Foster and Francesca
Bleeser were made one at the Methodist
Church. Two, parsons, Anglican and
Methodist, assisted in the knot-tying. The
bride’s dress was of satin beaute, made in
peacock style.
There has been an epidemic of whooping-
cough among the half-caste children in their
crowded quarters, so 20 or 30 have been
sent over to the Quarantine Station for a
month’s holiday. The Government is being
sharply criticised for penning over 80 chil-
dren in a space that would be hardly
adequate for a quarter of the number.
At the annual dance of the basketball club,
the hall was crowded with guests. A brass
Javanese occasional table was presented to
Mrs. Palmer, coach and umpire, in appre-
ciation of her efforts.
Miss Brice was farewelled at the residence
of Mrs. L. H. A. Giles on the eve of her
departure south. Another send-off took the
form of a kitchen-tea for Miss Sadie
Etheridge, with Mrs. Casliman and Miss
Kelly as the hostesses. The guest is off to
Sydney for an altar-date with Neil Gow.
The children’s fancy-dress ball was held
at the Town Hall. The Darwin News
Agency, some small tin soldiers, a butterfly,
a Murrumbidgee whaler, a golfer and a busy
bee caught the eyes of the judges. Some 40
prizes were awarded.
At tennis, Ken Gurry, a Territory-born
boy, annexed the Parap Cup, the singles
championship of North Australia, and, with
H. Flynn, another Territorian, the doubles
championship. The ladies’ doubles went to
Mrs. James and Mrs. Bald. Mrs. James
and Mr. Webb won the mixed doubles, and
Mr. Webb the N.A.T.A. Plate. The pennant
was won by the Darwin Tennis Club.
“Strict Veg.”: Curious how conventions
change. In my youth a beard was supposed
to be indicative of manliness, and hairiness
generally denoted strength. The other day
I was talking to a young woman in Collins-
street, when a bearded artist (of whom
there are several in Melbourne) passed. Her
nose wrinkled with disgust. “Look at him,”
she exploded. “He looks like a perfect old
woman!”
“C.Q.”: The authorities of St. Paul’s
Cathedral, Melbourne, have been complain-
ing in the press that the ancient art of bell-
ringing is threatened with extinction owing
to a shortage of applicants for the job of pull-
ing on the ropes—incidentally an honorary
one. One reason for the public reluctance
may be that church bells are coming to be
regarded as an anachronism even by church-
goers, although in the days when clocks and
watches were scarcer and less reliable there
was some excuse for them. Unlike the
Buddhist call to prayers, they never were
musical and they cause grave annoyance to
citizens with good ears and patients in hos-
pitals.
“Jeames” : The Duke of Northumberland,
who has died of pneumonia at 50, was the
complete Tory Englishman. It is doubtful
if there will ever be another quite like him.
He classed “colonials,” Irish, Welsh and even
Scots (though his mother was a Scot) with
the colored races of the Empire as people
who should be governed by Englishmen of
his class for their own good. And he didn’t
mind saying so in public. He took a leading
part on the “Diehard” side in the wrangling
that went on over the last British coal
strike, most of the family income being
derived from coal. I never missed hearing
him when possible. His complacence was
superb in view of the fact that he had never
risked anything for England; never been
wounded in battle, never won a decoration
for valor (all his war service was done on
’way-back staffs), and never taken a degree
or made any contribution to the cultural
side of the Empire’s life. He was a weedy,
sad-looking man with the delicate skin, in-
adequate forehead, prominent nose, receding
chin and high voice that often accompany
over-breeding.


Gathering Cocoanuts.
NOUMEA
Excepti onal
opportunity for
a South Sea Holiday
is offered by the
popular twin - screw
steamer M o e r a k i,
bringing the Fiji
Islands and New
Caledonia within
easy reach and open-
ing up a glorious
scenic circuit. The
18-days’ tour em-
braces Suva, Levuka,
Lautoka and Nou-
mea at an inclusive
cost of £3l to £34.
VIOLhVK I
THREE
WEEKS
SUMSHINE
TOUR
A-U-S-N- e> UNION LINES
SPECIAL SAILING: SEPTEMBER 12.
Reservations may be made with Union S.S. Co., or A.U.S.N. Co., at
any Australian Port.
Missing Friends.
MEWS would bo gratefully received of
MRS. JACK MATTHEWS, whose
maiden name was Alice Grace, formerly of
St. George and Toowoomba, and who would
now be about 40 years of age; last heard
of in Tasmania about 18 years ago. Please
communicate with her mother,
MRS. MARY GRACE,
St. Albans, Neil Street,
South Toowoomba.
jCarllon
OVENWARE
English Manufacture.
WHO HATES
THE JOB OF
DISHING UP?
N° need to say just who —
no need to do the job!
CARLTON OVENWARE
is fashioned for oven and
table use, and, quite different
to other ovenware, is guaran-
teed not to crack in oven use,
though a cold, wet clotli he used
in handling the heated dish!
FREE Illustrated leaflet of Casseroles,
Baking and Pudding Dishes, Stew Pots,
cte, (50 different pieces) from
F. R. BARLOW & SONS PTY., LTD.
328 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
m
Price oj Oval Casserole., 17/1 1
Price of Pie Dish, 8/6
SmvdLay titrvn
RELIEVE
iksi ILLS
GIVES
Real Relief for
Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Neuritis or
Neuralgia, Synovitis &
Sore Joints.
REV LINIMENT is the miracle-
worker in relieving pain. Those
aches in the back, those tortured
muscle fibres inflamed by Rheu-
matism, Uric Acid, Chills and
Sprains are simply rubbed away.
For Bronchial Complaints it has
no rival. If you are fatigued after
strenuous .games of tennis, golf,
football, etc., apply some REV.
Get a bottle at once. REV is backed
by the Makers’ guarantee to return
money if, after fair trial, you have
not obtained relief with REV.
Post This To-day.
Leslie Bray, Ltd., 827.8
Malcolm Lane,
SYDNEY.
Please forward me a large bottle of
REV, for which I enclose 4/-; 3/6 plus
postage 6d.
Name
Address
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
If any illustration in “THE
BULLETIN ” takes your fancy,
write to the MANAGER , who will
quote you price for the original.
might be worth while to give Moon a run
at the next elections for some seat not so
safe that the heads would earmark it for
themselves.
CHAPTER XII.
The three months which Illawarra calls
winter had passed. The men were beginning
to get out their straw hats again; the
women were beginning to turn over the
skirts which had formed the basis of a
sermon in the Methodist church the previ-
ous summer. The wattle, golden as May’s
hair, shone in clumps on the hillsides and
in sinuous glories along the creeks. The
banana plants began to show clusters of
green fruit; the Illawarra palms, rising on
single stems thirty, even fifty feet, acquired
a new and more luminous green; the South
Coast lilies sent up their shoots far above
the tallest man’s head to terminate in a
bloom of flaming scarlet as big as a bucket.
The grass was new and of a lighter green.
The sea was like blue silk and the sand-
stone headlands, which had been tawny
during the winter, changed in the sunlight
to chromes and brilliant browns deepening
to blacks in the deepest shadows of the
caves.
With half a roast fowl and a thermos flask
of tea, Jimmy and May started for a day’s
cycling. They passed through Wollon-
gong and Kembla, climbed the promontory
to have a look at the Five Islands lying
beneath them like a map, and, remounting,
continued along the bush track on the
peninsula which cuts Lake Illawarra from
the ocean. They dismounted to rest three
miles further.
“May,” said Jimmy. “I’ve been thinking
over things again. Won’t you marry me,
when I’m earning enough?”
In the face of his further experience of
her _ character he had almost forgotten her
confession. Anyhow, what did it matter?
A man might be a girl’s first lover and
not hold her. Better to be her last and
know you were. If May became his wife,
she would be faithful to him as she was
faithful to all things. And what impudence
men had in demanding what they were not
in a position to give! The record of almost
the worst woman would bear more light
than the record of almost the best man.
As for Alma, he thought of her as a
pleasant memory of his youth. That he
could ever have hoped to become her hus-
band was, he realised, only a boy’s foolish
romanticism. She belonged to another
circle. True, he might break in; but by
the time he had succeeded, Alma would
probably be a married woman with half a
dozen children. Here was a girl of the
people, like himself; like himself possessed
of an understanding of life, which was rare;
a girl who had a heart as sound as a bell
and as golden as her hair.
A dozen times during the winter he had
asked her to be his wife. She had refused
to take him seriously. “Run away and
play, little boy,” she had replied with a
gurgle. “Think of the disparity of our ages.
You’re not nineteen yet and I was eighty
last birthday. Look for somebody your
own age.”
“Once again, no, Jimmy dear,” she smiled.
“Look”—some birds flew up from a patch
of swamp—“that’s me, Jimmy. There are
wild ducks and tame ducks. You can’t
tame wold ducks and I’m one of them. I’m
not the sort to be the sort of wife you
deserve. I’ve got the artistic temperament,
the real thing, not the fake that actors
put forward as an excuse for not paying
their board bills. With mine, I’ve some-
thing that I can feel here”—she touched
what would have been a solar plexus on
Patsy Quirk. “You can feel it in poetry;
some people can feel it in pictures; I can
feel it in music. When you’ve got that it
isn’t fair to get married.”
He was about to protest but she stopped
him. “It isn’t that alone. I’m not such a
fool as to place music before love. The
whole trouble is that we don’t love one
another. No, you needn’t say we do, for
we don’t. I don’t love you and you don’t
love me. I know we’re great pals. I
know I feel rotten when I don’t see you
for some days. But it isn’t love; it isn’t
what I’ve been waiting for and it isn’t
what you have, either.”
“May, you’ve grown to be something I
can’t do without.”
“I know how you feel. I feel that way,
too. But it’s dodging the question.
Jimmy,” she turned, “have you ever been
really in love?”
Jimmy hesitated. But he couldn’t lie to
this girl.
“Once,” he replied—“three years ago. I
was only a kid. She was about fifteen at
the time—the daughter of my boss at the
works, C. J. Grey. I got on speaking terms
through pulling her out one day. That’s all.”
“You never made love to her, never
kissed her, never told her?”
“No.”
“And you feel towards me as you felt
towards that girl? Answer me?”
“That was different. I was only sixteen,
filled with a lot of romantic stuff that’s
impossible in real life.”
“Nothing’s impossible, if there’s lov'e.
Jimmy,” she said. “But it’s got to be love.”
“There’s only one thing that tempts me
to marry you,” she added—“you’re not able
to look after yourself. You’re such a fool
where women are concerned. Try to keep
yourself from being carried away by the bad
ones, Jimmy. Don,’t imagine we’re all
angels. I mean the real bad ones, the man-
eaters, the vampires, the Theda Baras; not
the ones who’re just a little bad in one
way—like me. For I don’t think I’m
really bad, Jimmy. I’ve never done a soul
any harm. But when you feel yourself fall-
ing in, remember what an old woman told
you once and go on looking for that little
girl you spoke about or some other who
loves you.”
They cycled for another four miles. The
sun had come out hot and the surf swept
in, a succession of long white lace flounces
on the blue petticoat of the sea.
The surf had been tempting Jimmy for
the past ten minutes; he had refrained
from speaking, simply that they might reach
a spot most favorable for their picnic. N%w
there was one in sight—a cluster of rocks,
broken and overhanging, the shadows indi-
cating cool caves and in front a mottling
of white and green stretches where you
might sprawl and bask in lazy comfort.
“That’s the place,” he nodded. It was
only a quarter of a mile further on. They
sprinted over the distance, hopped off pant-
ing at the nearest point, and tugged their
bicycles through the sandy grass up the
slone to the scarp.
“Was there ever more beauty in the
world, Jimmy?” whispered May, waving her
hand out towards where the surf rolled
along the long buff band of beach stretching
north to the Five Islands.
Jimmy, too, was overwhelmed, intoxicated
by the picture. “It is grand,” he replied.
They watched it for a full minute in
silence, then chose a shady spot and set
out their lunch in readiness.
May was first into her costume, a blue
silk one-piece affair, a present from Jimmy,
which she was wearing for the first time.
“It’s lovely, Jimmy,” she chuckled.
“There’s nothing feels like silk.”
Jimmy surveyed her quizzically. “It’s
nothing short on looks either,” he criticised;
“but that’s the girl inside.”
“Flatterer,” she pouted. “What is it
you’re looking for?”
It was a habit of hers to adopt the con-
ventional pose of disclaiming compliments,
though she really delighted in Jimmy’s
admiration and his expression of it. Some-
times she would be quite miserable for a
couple of hours because he had failed to
notice some new device she had studied out
for attracting his attention. But it was
seldom that happened. Jimmy’s song of
her praises was long and frequent. And he
meant every word of it. That was what
made it so delightful.
As she tied the last knot in the handkei’-
chief about her head she turned and looked
over the edge of the rock. Then before
Jimmy could prevent her, she hopped to
the ledge below and dived into the smooth
water behind a sheltering promontory.
Jimmy was at the water’s edge after her.
(To he continued next week.)
On Vanished Pads.
Peg me a claim 'midst comrades shaking
mash-dirt shed from the long, lou: hill
Draped in a flame of dust and quaking under
the stamps of Rand ell's mill!
Sound me a chord from some dead chorus
piped on the pads of youth elate;
Kindle the lamps that beaconed o'er us oft
where the tide of revel bore us;
Measures of grog set doivn before us; score
them down on the shanty slate!
Hope lias fled from the duffered patches,
saplings bend on the dumps we made;
Dust and mould are the bramble thatches
woven once for the boon of shade.
Joy has flourished and strife has sundered
pasture and waste we’ve trod since then.
Love has blossomed and power lias blundered,
fury and hate and conquest thundered;
Might replenished has seized and plundered
harvests ripe for the needs of men.
Overblown are the tracks we rutted north
and south in the last stampede;
Caved and filled are the claims we gutted,
delving daily with skill and speed.
Perished long are the tents we carried, strid-
ing afield in glow or gloom;
Thrice assuaged are the thirsts which harried
over the sands where famine tarried,
Recompensed the remorse we parried, drag-
ging back from a played-out boom.
Yet, when the old regrets befall me, anvil-
chimes from a range of dreams,
Blown through the bull-oak needles, call me out
where the dew-starred saltbush gleams,
Back once moi’e in the ranks I sped with
far on a march of faith sublime,
Ranged with the men I fought and fed with,
starved and suffered and boozed and
bled with,
Souls of a steadfast creed inbred with mate-
ship, manifest all the time.
Outward bound for the voiceless ranges
locked in the bull-oak’s last embrace,
Seldom stirred by the season’s changes, rarely
touched by the spring’s soft grace,
How we travel, our pulses leaping! How
we sunder the clay and stone!
Each his portion of treasure reaping, hour
by hour from the earth’s close keeping,
Out of the wash and lodestuff, sleeping under
a hilltop’s shaken throne.
Morning flares on the flats by Randell’s,
flashing far on the salt lake’s breast,
Heating the windlass-boles and handles,
scorching man in his fevered quest,
Kindling the dust, like pillars shoring skies
that lean from the ridges low;
Out of the crowded turmoil soaring, blown
from the gravel cascades pouring
Over the screens of shakers roaring loud, like
surf when the stormwinds blow.
Sunlight pales on the wash-heaps yellow,
piled like waves on the broken swells.
Echoing far in the evening mellow, dolly and
drill ring clear as bells.
Night descends on the hosts decamping, tur-
moil slackens on flat and hill,
Save for the tireless pump valves champing, hot
steam throbbing and crank rods vamping
Time to the stamp-shoe’s measured tramping
under the roof of Randell’s mill. i
N.S.W.
GERARDY.


u
HEENZO k easily
the best remedy I have
ever used for banishing
chest and throat ailments,
k
r
it
m
Writes Mr. RAYMOND ELLIS, the
eminent English Operatic Baritone.
OF IMPORTANCE TO
PARENTS
is the fact that HEENZO
does NOT contain any
poisons or digestive-upsetting
drugs — that’s why HEENZO is the best
of all family remedies for
COUGHS, COLDS,
CROUP, BRONCHITIS,
INFLUENZA.
rtebhnfdu
Every leading Chemist and Store in Australia sells HEENZO


AS WE SAID BEFORE
This Page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
A Surprise Party—Triplets.
Shakspeare keeps a hotel at Barcaldine
(Q.). Spirit of the Bard!
Dr. Macdonald, the fine old gentleman who
has just resigned the charge of the Dorcas-
street Church, Emerald Hill, Melbourne, is
the oldest Presbyterian minister in Victoria.
He arrived in Melbourne in 1851, and remem-
bers the time when it was quite common
for his marriage-fees to be paid in nuggets or
gold-dust. Although nearly 80 years of age
he is still hale and hearty, and speaks the
Gaelic as fluently as when he went to school
in the Western Highlands during the -reign
of King George the Third. [B. 20/8/’B7.]
When I [Sappho Smith] was in the land
of the Maori and the Moa, I knew by sight
and repute a little woman who, though of
humble origin, had already and successfully
THE VALUE OF CAPITAL.
OLD COLONIST (the one with the blue pants patched with brown, the
long coat,' shattered hat and the remains of an eye ): “Arter all,
money ain’t the true source of happiness.”
THE OTHER OLD COLONIST (with the dubious boots, speaking
slowly): “But the possession of vast sums such as are enjoyed
by Gould or Rothschild, or”-
OLD COLONIST ( impatiently ): “Well, what the blazes would you do
with ’em when you had 'em? Nobody can get drunker than
blind.” [B. 9/4/'87.]
commenced the toilsome ascent, and who,
even in those early days, had shown by cut-
ting dead her father in the street, that she
was destined to tread the path that leads
to glory and Government ’Ouse. Lately, I
hear, Mrs. Marmalade has suffered a reverse,
and, as the story conveys a moral and a
warning, here it is. At Wellington (N.Z.)
at-homes are not the exclusive privilege of
the “higher spheres.” Tradesmen’s wives
affect them, and the five o’clock congou is
languidly sipped by those whose mothers
were not above “wrastling” with a scrubbing-
brush. Mrs. Marmalade was at-home
recently, and the drorin’-room was full, when
honest Mrs. Isaacstein waddled in. Mrs.
M., blushing through several coats of red-
lead, greeted the lady with a bow frigid as
a freezing-chamber, and after the cold-
blooded pustorn of the haut ton never
attempted to introduce her to the assembled
elite of Newtown. Soon the Isaacstein
waddled out again, and a guest inquired
why the “fat pussou” had not been “intro-
juced.” “Impossible, me deah, impossible!”
said Mrs. M. “One must draw the line
somewheres. Hi draw it at pawnbrokers!”
—lsaacstein is the public’s uncle. Shortly
afterwards Mrs. M., learning to her surprise
that Mrs. I. was visited by quite “swagger”
persons of the shent per shent order, called
on Mrs. I. when it was the latter’s at-home.
Cordially received and introduced all round,
the room being full, our Mrs. Marmalade
crowded on canvas to such an extent and
so monopolised conversation that the guests
to whom she was a stranger thought she
must be a very large vessel indeed —probably
a squatter’s wife. Only when a female hap-
pened to praise her cup of tea, Mrs. 1., with
a No. 9 smile partially concealed by a No.
11 hand, said : “Joost reminds me, ma tears,
joost reminds me! Dat tea vas from Mister
Marmalade’s leetle chop in town. Give ’im
a turn, ma tears, give ’im a turn!” Mr.
Marmalade is a grocer!
In Queensland on a recent hot day a
coach rolled peacefully along a rough bush
track. All was calm and still, and no sound
broke the solemn silence except the creak-
ing of the ungreased wheels, and the occa-
sional croak of the thingumbob and the
shrill whistle of some tropical fowl, whose
name is too long for our space. Then sud-
denly a huge snake was observed sleeping
right in the track and the wheel went over
it. It was killed, but in its death agonies
it fixed its fangs in the vehicle, and in less
than a quarter of an hour the coach swelled
to such a frightful extent that it got jambed
and had to be left behind.
Judging from the following story the
weather down Kiandra (N.S.W.) way would
appear to be a trifle chilly at present. A
few nights ago Mr. James Pattinson,
manager of the Kiandra Goldmining Co.,
had occasion to go out to look after the
hydraulic apparatus of the mine. In shift-
ing the nozzle, which was allowed to play to
keep the race clear of snow, Mr. Pattinson
became drenched with spray. Having
finished the job, which occupied about 10
minutes, he returned to his home a veritable
pillar of ice, and as he could neither sit
down nor remove his clothes, Mrs. Pattinson
had to pile on fresh fuel and thaw him
before the fire. After that we don’t feel
quite so sceptical touching the story of Mrs.
Lot and the pillar of salt.
( The latest Melbourne novelty is the
“Souvenir” photograph. An enterprising
firm goes to the trouble of producing neat
photographs of all Births, Marriages
and Deaths announcements from the
“Age,” and posting proofs to the advertised
addresses. The
idea is success-
fully worked in
London and
should catch on
here. Gentle-
me n travelling
with golden-
haired ladies of
unmarried aspect
find the “Sou-
venir” invaluable.
They submit the
handy notice of
their nuptials as
a guarantee of
good faith, and
the suspicious
hotelkeeper passed
them right away.
Pho tog raphic
proofs of a baby’s
birth are as
necessary as
bottles, and are
eagerly inquired
for by doting
mothers. But the
firm is losing
money by turn-
ing out black-
edged cartes of
“Deaths” adver-
tisements. When
the average Aus-
tralian has
buried his missus
an d announced
the sad event his
interest flags. A
few order these
particular sou-
venirs as useful
reminders of the
expiration of the
regulation
“t w e 1 vemonth”
which will leave
them at liberty
to pop up again in a pleasanter part
of the paper. The “Souvenir” photo-
graph—which confers a special dignity upon
“Age” ads. —has been registered as a “liter-
ary production.”
A woman with a grievance writes to the
daily papers complaining that men generally
don’t offer her a seat in the crowded “tup-
penny” tram-car, and that she “frequently
had to stand all the way home.” Well, say
—only say, mind, because your only Sappho
Smith never has stood a second—that men
don’t jump up for us, perhaps if we showed
more consideration for each other they might
behave more nicely in every way. See a row
of four women on a seat to carry five. In
comes the fifth. Does one of the four move
an inch or reef her skirts in? You may
wager your new teeth to a jujube she doesn’t
budge, but surveys the intruder with the
frosty acquired glare of civilisation and
would see her crush in between two China-
men before she would make room. I’ve often
seen them do it, and man, observant man,
sees it too, and I expect in some cases forms
a resolution on the spot to let a tribe so
hostile to one another stand on one leg for
a mile before he’ll put himself out of the way
for it. I should, anyway, were I a man.
With commendable thoughtfulness, the
Australian Gaslight Company has furnished
each of its patrons with a highly moral cir-
cular containing enough excellent advice to
make their heads ache for a year. The first
item on the list
tells us to
“Turn on the
meter-tap full
for cooking,”
and the last
contains the
solemn and
much - needed
warning, “D o
not grumble at
the amount of
your gas-bills.”
Having unfor-
tunately given
our own circu-
lar away in
mistake for a
£5-note to a
blind man
round the cor-
ner, we have to
trust to our
memory for the
rest of the
admirable hints
given, but we
fancy the fol-
lowing fill the
programme cor-
rectly : “R e-
member that
the instrument
can’t lie. Never
turn the meter
off under any
consideration, as
this is detri-
mental to divi-
dends and tak-
ing a mean ad-
vantage of a
guileless
pany whose
directors 1 ie
awake half the
night devising
plans for our
own welfare
and comfort. If
your meter
leaks, let it
leak, and be
thankful you
can afford to
keep a meter of
any kind what-
ever. This will
save the plumb-
er’s bills, and
make the Gas
Co. love you.
Remember that
summer nights
are short and
those of winter
long but,
owing to a
merciful dispen-
sation of Pro-
vidence, the gas-
meter keeps up to its top average
all through. Pay your gas-bills punc-
tually, and, if necessary, two or three
times over; remember the Lord lovetli a
cheerful giver, and his dat qui into he
gives twice who pays double. Never speak
disrespectfully of the Gas Co., for it burns
to serve you, and to lighten your pockets
also. Keep your lamps trimmed and your
gas turned full on night and day. Remem-
ber the parable of the foolish virgins who
cut off their gas, and when the bridegroom
came they were booted out, like dead rats,
from the festive board because they didn’t
know enough to keep themselves warm.
Lastly, burn all the gas you can, and pay for
as much more, if possible, and when the
collector calls look upon him as an angel of
sweetness and light.” P.S.—This is a goak.
[B. 6/8/’S7. ]
C. E. Jones, M.P. for Ballarat, was boast-
ing in the Assembly the other night that they
had lots of talent in his constituency, when
a member on the Government benches earn-
estly inquired why in thunder they didn’t
send some down there then. C.E. sat down,
muttering a Scriptural quotation about
pearls and swine. But the joke wasn’t original.
“Do you get many good things sent to you
by the public?” asked W. S. Gilbert, of
Burnand. “Yes, a great many,” replied the
unsuspecting editor of “Punch.” “Then,”
asked the cruel satirist, “why don’t you put
some of them into your paper?” [B. 3/9/’B7.J
Collins can be purchased in Sydney on the
time-payment system, but they work this
business much better in Panama. There the
poorer classes simply hire a coffin by the day,
or hour, and after the dead party has been
conveyed to the grave he or she is tumbled
in and the empty coffin returned to the owner.
[B. 20/8/’87..]
Mount Morgan is now paying dividends at
the rate of £lOO,OOO a month. [B. 9/2/’BB.]
Here’s a breezy little dialogue which graphi-
cally illustrates the world of poetry and
romance in which Scottish courtship loves
to revel. Saundy: “Jeannie, I were here
on Monday nicht.” Jeannie: “Ah, Saundy,
ye were that.” “An’ I were here agen on
Wadnesday nicht.” “Ay, an’ ye were here
agen on Wadnesday nicht.” “An’ I were
here agen ofi Thursday nicht.” “Ay, an’ ye
were here on Thursday nicht, aid a’ that.”
“An’ Jeannie, I were here last nicht, too.”
“Weel, Saundy, what if ye were?” “An’ I’m
here tli’ nicht agen.” “Ay, an’ what aboot
it, mon, gin ye cam’ every nicht?” “What
aboot it, d’ye say, Jeannie? Why, Gud hless
ma seal, do ye no begin to smell a rat?”
An ingenious Melbourne man got three
(lays for stealing beer last week. He was
caught in the act. He had a long india-
rubber tube which was attached to a hogs-
head of tanglefoot on the premises of the
■Carlton Brewery, and then passed out
through a crack, and the inventor sat in
an adjoining lot and sucked it up like
mother’s milk, fie acknowledged being fond
of his pipe.
From the “S. M. Herald”: ‘‘A lady in bad
health would sell her house, furniture and
live boarders cheap.” Shades of Wilber-
force and old John Brown! Who would
think that the slave trade could be carried
on so openly in Australia?
JENNINGE ( loq .): “Here, you hold it a bit, till you can get somebody
to take charge of it, will you?”
CARRINGTON: “Great C[?]sar! Give it to Parkes, or anybody! Give
it to Barton! Give it to the D-!”
[The Jennings Ministry had been in office a year, but got into trouble just
before the 1886 Christmas adjournment. The Premier proposed to resign; but
Governor Carrington asked him to carry on over the holidays. Henry Parkes took
office on January 19, 1887, and a general election followed on February 9. The
cartoon was published January 22, 1887]
For cool cheek, please give the cake to
the Chinkie who at Maryborough (Q.) paid
a £2O fine with two forged notes.
THE CORNER-MAN.
I dreamed a dream at the midnight deep,
When fancies come and go
To vex a man in his soothing sleep
With thoughts of awful woe —
I dreamed that I was the corner-man
Of a niggger-minstrel show.
I cracked my jokes, and the building rang
With laughter loud and long;
I hushed the house as I softly sang
An old plantation song—
A tale of the wicked slavery days,
Of cruelty and wrong.
A small boy sat on the foremost seat—-
A mirthful youngster he;
He beat the time with his restless feet
To each new melody,
And he picked me out as the brightest star
Of the black fraternity.
“Oh, father,” he said, “what would we do
If the corner-man should die?
I never saw such a man—did you?
He makes the people cry,
And then, when he likes, he makes them
laugh.”
The old man made reply:
“We each of us fill a very small space
On the great creation’s plan;
If a man don’t keep his lead in the race
There’s plenty more that can;
The world can very soon fill the place
Of even a corner-man.”
I woke with a jump, rejoiced to find
Myself at home in bed,
And I framed a moral in my mind
From the words the old man said.
The world will jog along just the same
When its corner-men are dead.
[B. 25/l/’BB.]
THE BANJO.
ANNETTE, OF THE BARCOO.
(A love-letter delivered per favor of THE
BULLETIN.)
She is only a handmaid, on duty
With a Queensland backblocks “cockatoo,”
But in baking and boiling and beauty
She’s the boss of the boozy Barcoo.
She lives close beside Muttagummer,
Her eyes, like her tresses, are jet;
Her age was eighteen last summer,
And her name is Annette.
If her fingers ain’t white they are nimble,
And useful and shapely enough;
They can handle an axe or a thimble,
And don’t feel a little bit rough.
Her waist ain’t too stout nor too taper,
But exactly tlio thing to embrace.
Her neck is like cream-laid notepaper,
Like ripe peaches her face.
In accomplishments some may outvie her —
Though she knows quite enough for
eighteen.
She’d talk down old Palaver, the lawyer,
And believes in “that dear Betllyteen.”
She can dress—though the fashions be newer;
She can break both a heart and a horse,
And the shearers all round come to woo her
As a matter of course.
She can “sling” sacred music on Sunday,
And secular, too, when it suits,
And is equally ready on Monday
To dance you quite out of your boots;
And, when clasped by some luckier fellow
Who would waltz with her gladly through
life,
O ! her smiles made me mad as Othello,
Who bolstered his wife.
But, alas! how should I hope for favor
Where so many more wealthy aspire?
Some swell bank clerk or squatter will have
her—
I’m only a “scalper” on hire.
Yet I hope this, in print, won’t escape her—
I’m the cove with the reddish moustache,
The blue tie aud the collar of paper,
And a soul above cash.
And should she incline to _ the notion
Of yoking her future with mine,
I will serve her with all the devotion
I’ve hitherto given to wine;
And I’ll covet not wealth nor fine raiment,
But shall think myself blest if I get
Store-credit or long-deferred payment
And a humpy with love and Annette.


NO INVESTOR IS SAFE WITHOUT IT
How many tens of thousands of people were ruined in the ’nineties through being unable to distinguish between the good company
and the bad?
We are on the edge of a similar disaster. Already scores of companies have gone into liquidation. But no great amount of
hardship has yet been caused by the making of calls to meet outside liabilities.
Are you liable for calls? What reserves have your companies got?
And what are your insurance policies worth in case anything serious should happen?
The files and other data at the command of the “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” are so complete that the companies themselves often
apply for permission to consult them.
In compiling its reviews and tables, the “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” draws upon these stores of information.
No investor, great or small, can safely do without this guide. The smaller the investment the greater the need to make sure it
is safe.
You need not buy the “Monthly” without testing its value. Send for a sample copy, along with 1 Jd. stamp to cover postage, and
judge whether it is not worth 22/6 a year to you.
LIFE.
I tried to heat my hands
At the great fire of life, so warm to touch,
And closer crouched before the blazing
brands,
Nor felt their genial radiance over much.
But, bending nearer to the beckoning brands,
Outleapt they, treacherous, and seared my
hands.
I bared my heart to life’s cool, tempting
breeze
To fan upon the passions it had known,
The tears, the terrors and the secrecies,
With all the sear of sorrows, borne alone,
But the cool breeze turned icy in its part
And froze the life-blood in my bare, hot
heart.
I shut my heart to it and clasped my hands;
No breeze should harm me now, nor cruel
brands,
But loud laughed life in fiendish mockery
. And echoed—echoed—all it knew of me.
What wot it that I hide my burning palms?
Beneath the mask life knows the storms and
calms,
And ridicules the cynic she has made.
[6/9/’9o.]
INA M. WILDMAN.
THE STORY OF MALACHI.
Malachi was very tall, very thin, and very
round-shouldered, and the sandiness of his
hair also cried aloud for an adjective. All
the boys considered Malachi the greatest ass
on the station, and there was no doubt that
he was a dreadful fool. He had never been
out of his native bush in, all his life, except-
ing once, when he paid a short visit to Syd-
ney, and when he returned it was evident
that his nerves had received a shaking. We
failed 'to draw one word out of Malachi
regarding his views on the city—to describe
it was not in his power, for it had evidently
been something far beyond his comprehension,
Even after his visit had become a matter of
history, if you were to ask him what he
thought of Sydney the dazed expression
would come back into his face, and he would
scratch his head and say in a slow and
deliberate manner, “Well, there’s no mistake
it’s a caution.” And as such the city re-
mained so far as Malachi’s opinion of it
was concerned.
Malachi was always shabbily dressed, in
spite of his pound a week and board, and
“When Malachi gets a new suit of clothes”
was the expression invariably used by the
boys to fix a date for some altogether im-
probable event. We were always having
larks with Malachi, for we looked upon him
as our legitimate butt; he seldom complained,
and when he did his remonstrance hardly
ever went beyond repeating the words, “Now,
none of your pranktical jokes!” If this
had not the desired effect and we put up
some too outrageous trick on him he would
content himself by muttering with sorrow-
ful conviction, “Well, there’s no mistake, it’s
a caution,”
We were not content with common jokes
such as sewing up the legs of Malachi’s
HOW ALLIGATORS ARE CAUGHT IN QUEENSLAND.
The entire family are taken in to bathe, while the head of the family, armed
with a gun, picks off such alligators as, beguiled by curiosity or appetite, come to
look on. [13/6/’87.]
trousers while he slept, “fixing” his bunk,
or putting explosives in his pipe—we aspired
to some of the higher branches of the practi-
cal joker’s art. It was well known that
Malachi had an undying hatred of words of
four syllables and over, and the use of them
was always sufficient to forfeit any good
opinions he might have previously enter-
tained concerning the user. “I hate them
high-flown words,” he would say—“l got a
book at home that I could get them all out
of if I wauted them; but I don’t.” The book
referred to was a very dilapidated dictionary.
Malacki’s hatred for “high-flown” words was
only equalled by his aversion to the opposite
sex; and, this being known, we used to write
letters to him in a feminine hand, threaten-
ing divers breach-of-promise actions, and
composed in the “high-flown” language above
alluded to. We used to think this very
funny, and by these means we made his life
a burden to him. Malachi put the most im-
plicit faith in everything we told him, he
would take in the most improbable yarn pro-
vided we preserved a grave demeanor and
used no “high-flown” expressions. H’e would
indeed sometimes remark that our yarns were
a “caution,” but that was all.
We played upon him the most gigantic
joke of all during the visit of a certain
bricklayer, who came to do some work at
the homestead. “Bricky” was a bit of a
phrenologist, and knew enough of physiog-
nomy and human nature to give a pretty fair
delineation of character. He also went in
for “spirit rapping,” greatly to the disgust
of the two ancient housekeepers, who declared
that they’d have “no dalins wid him and
his divil’s worruk.”
The bricklayer was from the first an
object of awe to Malachi, who carefully
avoided him; but one night we got the butt
into a room where the artisan was enter-
taining the boys with a seance. After the
“table rapping,” during which Malachi sat
with uncovered head and awe-struck expres-
sion, we proposed that he should have his
“bumps” told, and before he could make his
escape Malachi was seated in a chair in the
middle of the room and the bricklayer was
running his fingers over his head. I really
believe that Malachi’s hair bristled between
the phrenologist’s fingers. Whenever he
made a hit his staunch admirer the “Done-
gal” would exclaim. “Look at that
now!” while the girls tittered and said,
“Just fancy!” and from time to time Malachi
would be heard to mutter to himself in a
tone of the most intense conviction that.
“Without the least mistake, it was a caution.”
Several times at his work the next day he was
observed to rest on his spade while he tilted
his hat forward with one hand and felt
the back of his head, as though he had not
been previously aware of its existence.
We “ran” Malachi to believe that the
bricklayer was mad on the subject of
phrenology, and was suspected of having killed
several persons in order to obtain their skulls
for experimental purposes. We further said
that he had been heard to say that Malachi’s
skull was a most extraordinary one, and
so we advised him to be careful.
Malachi occupied a hut some distance from
the station, and one night, the last night
of the bricklayer’s stay, as Malachi sat
smoking over the fire the door opened
quietly and the phrenologist entered. He
carried a bag with a pumpkin in the bottom
of it, and, sitting down on a stool, he let
the bag down with a bump on the floor
between his feet. Malachi was badly scared,
but he managed to stammer out
“’Elio!”
“’Elio !” said the phrenologist,
There was an embarrassing silence, which
was at last broken by “Bricky” saying:
“How are you gettin’ on, Malachi?”
“Oh, jist right,” replied Malachi.
Nothing was said for a while, until
Malachi, after fidgeting a good deal on his
stool, asked the bricklayer when he was to
leave the station.
“Oh, I’m going away in the morning
early,” said he. “I’ve jist been over to
Jimmy Nowlett’s camp, and as I was passing-
I thought I’d call and get your head.”
“Wot?”
“I come for your skull. Yes,” the
phrenologist continued, while Malachi sat
horror-stricken; “I got Jimmy. Nowlett’s
skull here,” and he lifted the bag and lov-
THE REASON WHY.
SHE: “So those ore bookmakers? Tell me, Mr. De Jones, how
have, they all managed to get broken noses?"
HE: “Simply, I presume, because they deserved it.” [26/3/’87.|
ingly felt the pumpkin—it must have
weighed forty pounds. “I spoilt one of his
best bumps with the tomahawk. I had to
hit him twice, but it’s no use crying over
spilt milk. Here he drew a heavy shingling-
hammer out of the bag and wiped off with
his sleeve something that looked like blood.
Malachi had been edging round for the door,
and now he made a rush for it. But the
skull-fancier was there before him.
“Gor-sake, you don’t want to murder me?”
gasped Malachi.
“Not if I can get your skull any other
way,” said “Bricky.”
“Oh!” gasped poor Malachi—and then,
with a vague idea that it was best to humor a
lunatic, he continued, in a tone meant to be
off hand and careless —“Now, look here, if
yer only waits till I die you can have my
whole skelington and welcome.”
“Now, Malachi,” said the phrenologist
sternly, “d’ye think I’m a fool? I ain’t goin’
to stand any humbug. If ye acts sensible
you’ll be quiet, and it’ll soon be. over, but
if yer”
Malachi did not wait to hear the rest.
He made a spring for the back of the hut
and through it, taking down h large new
sheet of stringybark in his flight. Then he
could be heard loudly ejaculating: “It’s a
caution!” as he went through the bush like
a startled kangaroo, and he didn’t stop till
he reached the station.
Jimmy Nowlett and I had been peeping
through a crack in the same sheet of bark
that Malachi dislodged; it fell on us and
bruised us somewhat, but it wasn’t enough
to knock the fun out of the thing.
When Jimmy Nowlett crawled out from
under the bark he had to lay down on
Malachi’s bunk to laugh, and even for some
time afterwards it was not unusual for
Jimmy to wake up in the night and laugh
till we wished him dead.
I’d like to finish here, but there remains
something more to be said about Malachi.
* * $ *
One of the best cows at the homestead had
a calf, about which she made a great deal
of fuss. She was ordinarily a quiet, docile
creature, and although somewhat fussy after
calving no one ever dreamed that she would
injure anyone. It happened one day that
the squatter’s daughter and her intended
husband, a Sydney exquisite, were strolling
in a paddock where the cow was. Whether
the cow objected to the masher or his lady
love’s red parasol, or whether she suspected
designs upon her progeny is not certain;
anyhow, she “went for” them. The young
man saw the cow coming first, and he
gallantly struck a
bee-line for the
fence, leaving the
girl to manage for
herself. She wouldn’t
have managed very
well if Malachi
hadn’t been passing
just then. He saw
the girl’s danger
and ran to intercept
the cow with no
weapon but his
hands.
It didn’t last long.
There was a roar, a
rush and a cloud of
dust, out of which
the cow presently
emerged, and went
scampering back to
the bush in which
her calf was hidden.
We carried Mal-
achi home and laid
him on a bed. He
had a terrible wound
in the groin, and the
blood soaked through
the bandages like
water. We did all
that was possible for
him; the boys killed
the squatter’s best
horse and spoil two
others riding for a
doctor, but it was of
no use. In the last
half-hour of his life
we all gathered
round Malachi’s bed;
he was only 22.
Once he said:
“I wonder how
mother’ll manage
now.”
“W h y, where’s
your mother?” some-
one asked gently;
we had never dreamt
that Malachi might
have someone to love
him and be proud of
him.
“In Bathurst,” he
answered wearily—
“she’ll take on
awful, I ’spect. She
was awful fond of
me we’ve been
pullin’ together this
last 10 year s—
mother and me—we
wanted to make it
all right for my little brother Jim. Poor
Jim!”
“What’s wrong with Jim?” someone asked.
“Oh, lie’s blind,” said Malachi—“always
was—we wanted to make it all right for
him agin time he grows up—l—-I managed
to send home about—about forty pounds a
year—we bought a bit of ground, and—
and—l think—l’m—going now. Tell ’em,
Harry—tell ’em how it was”
. I had to go outside then. I couldn’t stand
it any more. There was a lump in my throat
and I’d have given anything to wipe out my
share in the practical jokes, but it was too
late now.
Malachi was dead when I went in again,
and that night the hat went round with the
squatter’s cheque in the bottom of it and we
made it “all right” for Malachi’s blind
brother Jim.
[22/6/’B9.]
HENRY LAWSON.
Mr. Wilfred Blaebet, journalist, a good
man and true, and a young Australian to
boot, for years sub-editor of The Bulletin,
was last week admitted as a barrister of the
N.S.W. Supreme Court. Mr. Blacket, who
is an earnest, consistent and enlightened
Radical, will, it is safe to predict, be in
Parliament ere long and prove a thorn in
the side of the Freetrade and land-grab
party. Meanwhile Mr. Blacket will, for
proper barristerial consideration, duly ten-
dered through an attorney, lift up his voice
occasionally on behalf of the gentle horse-
thief. [3/9/’B7.]
The latest Melbourne scandal, concerning
a ball tha.t eventuated in the very heart of
Toorak, is [Sappho Sniith writes] too
dreadful to be told in prose:—
She was young and rather merry
And she took a glass of sherry,
Which was very foolish, very—
For it got into her head;
And she showed an inch of stocking
In a manner oh so shocking;
All the “boys” were round her flocking,
But the other ladies fled.
[1887.]


SWAM” IMK
FOR “SWAN” PENS AND ALL PENS
tv
“Last Drop, 2/-
g 'Swaw- Wiwfiaid >B5
40z., 1/3
2 gOz., 9d.
jtSgad*
* Co.L”—V? K
1 Joz.j 6d.
400 z., 5/6
BLUE-BLACK,
300 z., 4/6
RED, GREEN, V
Sold Everywhere.
200 z., 3/6
lOLET, BLUE.
Australian Agents: PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., ISI Clarence Street, Sydney.
l@@K IN Y©tJR MIRROR!
Constipation, partial or complete,
is fatal to your looks
Nature abhors a system that is not daily and completely
cleansed of its waste poisons, and she intends you to abhor
it too. Dull eyes, a muddy skin, excessive perspiration, a
coated tongue, are her warnings that your blood is absorb-
ing dangerous toxins.
Watch for danger signals in yourself. If you find them
though you may not be conscious of being constipated in
the ordinary sense, you are suffering from incomplete
elimination. You need Eno’s "Fruit Salt”. AglassofEno
taken first thing every morning gently dismisses the waste
matter from your body before it has had time to stagnate.
Cno may be given to children with perfect safety.
ii
FRUIT MILT
ii
c &he words Sno and "tyruit Salt” are registered trade marks .
Sales Agents: THE BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE & CO. LTD.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Zed, in French.
MARGARET FANE
WHEREIN
AND HILARY LOFTING TELL HOW
hyacintiie pecoci-iet SACRIFICED his art to save a client.
NOT friends with Fate, Mealy Rivers
came down Brazier-street. Here he
was, back in the ’Loo, bumming down
this street. Business was slow; he was
a fool to be in Sydney. London, now, or
Paris, or Monte
Mealy scowled, and Fate, avenging this
unfriendly mood, made his eyes seem even
closer together, his thin nose more predatory,
his mouth even looser and grosser. He
came down Brazier-street with a graceful
unhurrying speed; his clothes were of their
lia<bitual quiet elegance; when he was at
work he cduld give the required impression
of a friendly personable man. But this scowl
made him only a small, furtive man hurry-
ing morosely down this idle street in the
’Loo.
At the corner of Triangle-street he paused,
his eyes expressing the limit of their allow-
ance in surprise. He crossed the road.
There used to be a greengrocer’s shop there.
He read the card in the window:
PLAT DU JOUR
Sirloin Provencal (Aloyau).
On the window-board was written “Cafe de
la Tour,” and over the doorway “H.
Pecochet.”
Things were looking up in the ’Loo. A
French cafe! Mealy’s narrowed weary eyes
searched the situation for some catch. An
aloyau —it was years since he bad tasted
one. Not since that place on the roof over-
looking the Saint Denis gate in Paris. ,He
crossed th'c pavement with his light swift-
ness, opening the door and entering the Catfe
de la Tour.
Hyacinthe Pecochet bowed and smiled.
Not too attractive, this client.
“G’day,” Mealy told him, unsmiling.
“Bonjour, Monsieur. You wish lunch?”
“How long has this hash-joint been here?”
Monsieur Pecochet’s dark face flushed a
shade darker. “A few months now, Monsieur.
You wish lunch? The aloyau is to be recom-
mended.”
“Who told you you could cook a<n aloyau?'’
Mealy continued without moving.
Certainly not attractive. The eyes too
close together and too cruel, and the mouth,
like the manners, too slovenly.
“It is my profession, Monsieur. I have
cooked many aloyaus.”
Mealy’s harsh eyes turned to the little
room, the dozen tables, the one waiter, the
long serving-table against the wall. The
atmosphere somehow brought back that joint
in the Boulevard Saint Denis, and the spicy
aromatic aloyau, tender as cream.
“How long do you think you’ll last in the
’Loo, Frenchie?” his surly voice demanded.
Hyacinthe Pecochet preserved his impas-
sive patience. “I have already a number
of regular clients, if it interests you.”
“Well, I’ll give it a go—l’ll try your
scran,” Mealy announced morosely.
“Thank you, Monsieur. Jules!”
The waiter pulled out a chair and bowed,
smiling over it. Still unsmiling Mealy
slipped down the room and sat in the chair.
Returning from the serving-table to his
desk Hyacinthe Pecochet remained a few
moments in thought. Each to his destiny.
One took the sirloin, larded it with ham,
bacon-fat and anchovy; made a stuffing of
minced bacon, beef-marrow, butter, oil, garlic
and herbs, mixed all these with inspiration,
and carefully introduced the stuffing into the
joint. One covered the joint with fat bacon
and greased paper, and watched its delicate
cooking as a mother her babe. Orange-juice
and black pepper in the sirloin’s own gravy
—and behold! an aloyau, a creation of deli-
cately shaded flavors, a work of art for the
palate of a prince. And then this man
comes in, surly and unwilling, who will
“give it a go,” he “will try this scran,” he
says!
Not all clients were like this, of course.
Quiet people walked over from Macquarie-
street, from Potts Point and Darling Point
—hearing that true French’ food was to be
eaten in that strange lazy street in the ’Loo
—'and they made their compliments and
came again. Certain others also, dwellers
in the ’Loo, began to come shyly and in
embarrassment at first, but more eagerly
when they found that for the same cost as
corned beef and cabbage they could eat a
meal that did not cry out in horror. For
Macquarie-street and Potts Point it was
“Ron jour, Monsieur et dame ,” the quiet
meal recalling Paris to them, and “Au
revoir — merci, Monsieur et dame” For
them it was a routine, a nothing. But for
these people of the ’Loo it was very much a
something. One regarded it as a destiny not
without its rewards. Not much came into
this wayward ’Loo with wonder and delight
upon it; not much was here save a stout
heart and a mocking willingness to take what
the day should bring of sorrow or comfort.
And the people had their own bloom of
laughter, and no tears.
But this cold, narrow-faced man, with his
“scran” and “giving it a go”—Monsieur
Pecochet shook his head sadiy. There _he
was, devouring his aloyau with intensity.
Something of the harshness seemed to have
left him now, something of warmth to be
supervening. Hyacinthe Pecochet shrugged ;
as heretofore and always, the stomach was
the touchstone.
Presently Mealy approached the desk. He
was softened; if such a word could ever
be used of him, he glowed.
“I take-it all back, Sergeant,” he _ said
smiling. “The other fellows are a boil on
your neck. There used to be a joint at
Neuilly just outside the Octroi”
The dark face at the desk lit up. ‘Ah,
Emile Girouard’s! You know Paris, Mon-
sieur?”
“Never knew his name, but he used to
fancy himself at the aloyau. But spare
me days, he didn’t know what it was.
Listen, I’ll bring a mate of mine here; he
knows food, too.” „ .
Hyacinthe Pecochet bowed. This was
something to accomplish, the softening of
this man. “Very happy, .Monsieur. You
know Paris?”
“Yes, I know Paris.” Good friends with
Fate, Mealy glanced tranquilly at the room.
“But why the ’Loo, Digger?” he asked.
“You ought to be up in Castlereagh-street—
run ’em all out o’ business with a touch
like yours.”
“Perhaps that comes later. For now, this
is well enough. I am content. And I like
the ’Loo. Is it long since you saw Paris,
Monsieur?” For me, it approaches three
years since I saw it.”
“You’ll be missing it. And I don’t
wonder. Remember waking up on a spring
morning and dodging into the Bois for a
sneak-i - ound before lunch? And maybe a
cocktail at Pre Catalan to give it a
kick?” A professional persuasiveness had
crept into Mealy’s voice. “And back to
lunch at Le Notre’s, and nothing to worry
about, eh? I should think you would
miss it.”
That dear Paris! Emile Girouard’s
alfresco cafe in his Neuilly garden—the
wilful Pre Catelan demure in the green
Bois! Hyacinthe Pecochet was grateful for
the moment of memory.
He gave Mealy the change from his note.
“Happy days, Sergeant! I’ll bring that
mate of mine along for a feed. Bung-o.”
lie was gone.
Monsieur Pecochet shrugged again. One
might guess : card-sharping, perhaps, or this
confidence trick. On board ship, doubtless,
and with the rich Americans seeing Paris!
But each to his destiny—especially in the
’Loo.
Mealy’s companion on his second visit
was enchanted to meet Hyacinthe Pecochet
and effusive in his confession of it.
“I told you I’d bring a mate, didn’t I?”
Mealy demanded triumphantly. “Well, there
he is —Monsieur Ducros, a French artist.
From Paris. How d’you like that?”
Armand Ducros bowed again, his heels
clicking together. -SEnchante mon chcr,
Monsieur,” he murmured yet once more.
“To meet a compatriot, a fellow-Parisian,
is a great pleasure.”
“The pleasure is to me.” This was an
occasion; one responded to this with a full
heart. “You are bhrn in Paris, Monsieur
Ducros?”
“But certainly, Monsieur le patron. In
Passy”——
“Passy!” This was too much. “You will
know the Rue de la Tour?”
Tears gushed to the eyes of Armand
Ducros. “My studio is in the Rue de la
Tour”
“Jules!” The waiter fled to Monsieur
Pecochet. “Some wine,” the patron com-
manded, “immediately. The middle shelf.”
“Tout de suite, Monsieur.” Jules fled
away.
“My home is in the Rue de la Tour,” the
patron said with solemnity. “You will drink
wine with me.” He turned to Mealy. “And
you also, Monsieur.”
“Too right I will. You couldn’t have a
better day for it. What’s on to-day?”
“The Plat du Jour Gigot a la mode de
Poitou to-day, Monsieur.”
Armand Ducros threw his eyes to Heaven
and kissed his hand after them in a rapt
silence.
“Another half-glass, mon ami , as aperitif.
You are long from Paris?”
Monsieur Ducros sighed. “Dix—onze.
There are eleven months since I saw Paris.”
The bottle in Hyacinthe Peeochet’s hand
paused in mid-tilt. “Onts?—Ontz ?” This
man was not French, was not born in Passy.
He might have lived long in Paris, but bis
French had been learned. That hard zed
was German. He was a liar!
“Then, Messieurs,” his quiet voice broke
the silence, “I go to serve you. Be seated,
pI6SSG»^
“Well, Fritzy”—Mealy sat down —“sec
any more drawings this morning?”
Monsieur Ducros smiled, tearing his roll
in halves. “One thousand. Or so it
seemed,” he said.
Mealy laughed without mirth. “ Are they
any good?”
“They have life, a crude life. Nothing
more. But'enough for me to talk about.”
“Yes,” Mealy scowled. “It was your art-
patter that brought you in on this. Else
he’d have been all mine.”
“Be charitable. To share the gold you
discovered with”
“Charitable me foot! This is business.
Where are we now?”
Monsieur Ducros sighed. Mealy was as
crude as Jimmy Paton’s drawings. “We
anticipate fame and the gay life in Paris,
where for a time he will study at some
atelier”
“Talk English,” Mealy interposed in his
gross way.
Monsieur Ducros was silent.
“Well?” Mealy barked.
“You don’t understand this, Mealy.” The
voice was smooth and tranquil, but the eyes
were as cold and hard as Mealy’s. “You
found Paton and his twelve-thousand pounds,
but all you can do alone is to congratulate
him on that nice sum of money which his
uncle was so thoughtful as to leave him. The
business of getting that money was con-
ceived by me, as the capital for the business
is found by me. Steamer fares to Europe
for two are not cheap. These drawings of
Paton’s are the kernel of the business; I am
(or was) an artist; and you, artistically
and intellectually, are a sub-normal wharf-
laborer.”
Monsieur Ducros paused, watching Mealy’s
white, still face with polite interest.
“I command the situation. Reminding
you of this—do I continue, with civility
from my assistant in this business?”
Mealy’s murderous face managed a smile.
“You talk too much, Fritzy, old man. We’re
in this fifty-fifty, and I want to know
where we are.”
(Continued on next page.)


* r €very picture
Zells a St°rS’
\Ts.
v i
'Xs-
r
Comfort Old Age
by keeping the kidneys active
MUCH CAN BE DONE to comfort old people, for
backache, urinary disorders, sciatica, lumbago,
rheumatism, gravel and inflammation of the bladder are
too often suffered unnecessarily. The kidneys, pro-
bably, are the weak spot. They need the special
strengthening help of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
This kidney stimulant makes the kidneys active; it
strengthens them and helps them keep the blood pure,
thereby preventing, as well as relieving, the symptoms of kidney disorder. Don’t run serious risks! No
matter what your age may be, an occasional course of Doan’s Pills will prove helpful. Doan’s act on the
kidneys; they do not affect the liver, the stomach or the bowels.
INTERESTING SYDNEY EVIDENCE.
A WOMAN’S CASE.
Mrs. Pullbrook, sen., 42 May Street, St. Peters, Sydney, says: “For
six or seven years I was troubled with weak and disordered kidneys. The
chief symptom , was backache, and the pain I suffered was awful.' When I
stooped the agony in standing up again was almost unbearable, and' I often
had to get someone to help me. Nothing I took seemed to relieve the pain,
and I used to wonder if I should ever be well again. One day I was urged
by a friend to try Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and it was a real friend’s
advioe, for a few bottles completely cured me. My experience proves that
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are a genuine remedy, and I sincerely trust
that other sufferers will benefit by my experience and take these splendid
pills.’’
Fourteen years later Mrs. Pullbrook says: “I am still a great believer
in Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills and would not like to be without them.
They are invaluable to the kidney sufferer.”
A MAN’S CASE.
Mr. B. Preston, “Elsinor,” Park Road, Mascot, Sydney, says: “In con-
sequence of a cold settling on my kidneys I was almost crippled with back-
ache.' My back ached terribly and every movement seemed to make the pain
more acute. My rest at night was disturbed, no position, being comfortable
for long, and during the day I was tired and weary. The kidney secretions
were disordered, being thick and cloudy. My wife, who had taken Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills some time previously, with very beneficial results,
advised me to give the remedy a trial. I acted on her advice and am very
glad I did, for three bottles of the pills cured me completely. I feel splendid
now and have only Doan’s Pills to thank for my freedom from backache
and kidney trouble.”
Two years later Mr. Preston says: “I am still well and have not been
troubled with my kidneys since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me.”
redhfgd
hjfd
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Doan's Backache Kidney
Pills are sold by all
chemists and storekeepers.
Fbster-McClellan Co., Pro-
prietors, 15 Hamilton
Street, Sydney.
Monsieur Ducros bowed. “The enthusiasm
of the famous artist Armand Ducros over
these drawings has almost decided him to go
to Paris and study art seriously as a career.
He will take all his money with him, natu-
rally. It happens that Ducros is returning,
with his friend (and assistant) next month
to the Paris that so adores him, and if we
all travel together the introduction of Mr.
James Paton to the Paris studios will be
made under exceptionally good auspices.
Indeed, it is a miraculous opportunity. But
the decision to date is only ‘almost.’ ”
“Not quite ripe,” Mealy suggested crudely.
“As you put it, my dear Mealy, not quite
ripe, Nevertheless”——
Two helpings of gigot a la mode Poitou,
rich and fragrant, appeared before these
gentlemen, who fell silent.
Hyacinthe Pecochet at the desk by the
door reminded himself that to be a German
was no sin. Among his friends in Paris
were several people of German blood. But
to be a German who denied his country, who
stole another country’s traditions and the
regard of her sons—that was a horse of
another color. At least each might sail
under his true colors, not stealing regard
and. respect from the innocent by means of
a lie. He, Hyacinthe Pecochet, had been
made a fool, and he was angered. But these
gentlemen were at the desk to pay and go.
Monsieur Duqros clicked his heels and
bowed low. “ Magnifique /” he protested.
“We have a great genius in Sydney. A
marvellous gigot Poitou, Monsieur. My
homage and my thanks”
“Look,” Mealy put in without waiting for
the rest of it, “we got a mate, an Aussie
who’s going to Paris”
“To study the art of painting—possible
only in our dear Paris.” Ducros was very
smooth and patriotic. He goes with us next
month. He is from the country and knows
nothing of Parisian food, God pity him.
And”
“Listen. We Avant him to taste the kind of
scran he’ll get every day in Paris, and
yours is the only hashhouse in Sydney”
Mealy became conscious that Monsieur
Ducros was looking at him steadily. His
lips puckered and he whistled gently to
himself, looking lazily out of the window.
. “With permission, we would like to bring
him here to dinner to-morrow night, Mon-
sieur le patron, After all, the young man
Avill ■ be. eating food of this type for some
years in a, to him, foreign land.”
Hyacinthe Pecochet regarded this gentle-
man’s face. One had the duties of one’s
destiny. “It could be arranged, doubtless.
What is it you wish, Monsieur Ducros?” "
“A dinner, the highest expression of your
genius, for three. Thoroughly' Parisian, and ■
of your best. And, that we shall be com-
fortable and as it were at home, perhaps
at eight o’clock, when the customary Aus-
tralian meal is well over and your cafe
empty”—•—
“Ye see, Digger, there’s a bit o’ business
avc want to talk over with this coot,” Mealy
turned and came into it again, “and if
we’re on our own, all snug Avith a bottle or
tw0.... Don’t stint it, you know. The
price’ll be right’—whatever you put on it
goes, booze an’ all.”
Monsieur Pecochet considered for a
moment. These gentlemen had business with
this young man, had they? That might be
interesting.
Suddenly he laughed. “It shall be
arranged, Messieurs. Present yourselves and
your friend to-morrow night at eight o’clock.
Au revoir.”
The big table near the serving-table being
set at last to his satisfaction, Monsieur
Pecochet straightened a drooping rose, flicked
a speck of ’Loo dust from a napkin, glanced
at the bottles. A garbure; stuffed John
Dory Pecochet; Paupiettes Gaillardes;
Poulet au Sang; a Spanish salade; Subrics
Miss Paulette —the business with this young
man should go well. Voices sounded at the
cafe door.
Pink this young man was, where he was
not a dark brown from the sun. Very big
and strong; the ‘ narrow-faced man was a
flea beside him, and the heavy grey face
of that so-French Ducros but reached his
broad shoulders. He blushed; his smile was
kind and shy.
“There you are, Jimmy. Meet my friend
the sergeant.” Mealy was animated. “And
the tucker —my oath! You wait and see.
Knock the head off one o’ those bottles for a
start, Sergeant.”
Ducros was studying the menu. “Miss
Paulette I don’t know, but shall be glad to
meet. For the rest, I congratulate you,
Monsieur; it is a perfect blending.” Mon-
sieur Pecochet bowed. “Notice this meal as
you eat it, mon c.her James. It will be a
revelation to you, naturally. And remember
that every day when we are in Paris you will
have, for lunch and dinner, perfect flavors
such as these. No other food but dishes like
these is ever offered in France.”
The fragrant garbure was ladled into the
three plates at the serving-table.
“My blanky oath!” Mealy murmured at
the first mouthful. “It’s not soup—it’s
Heaven.”
“Marvellous, Monsieur,” Ducros whispered
to the patron. “You see, James. Wonder-
ful, is it not?”
Jimmy Paton blushed. “Yes,” he said.
“Wonderful.”
Monsieur Pecochet watched him. Some
business, eh? Good business for these birds
of prey, perhaps. But for this big be-
wildered boy—eh? For a moment more he
watched these three gentlemen.
He went into the kitchen, returning with
the John Dory Pecochet. He served it.
Mealy'.leaned back: “Every day, twice a
day, Jim mo. And > the tabbies ! No more
Bertha from "Wagga then, ijimmo!” He
winked and laughed:
Jimmy, stirred Tn Iris chair. “Bertha’s all
right,”’he said? T never reckoned to have
auy money; and it’s made a difference, that’s
ail. -Uncle .always .arts close; no one knew
he’d got anythingvuntil he died.”
“And now ‘.you’ve got it, to make the
artistic career your work demands, my dear
Janies. It would be ►a sin to bury your
talent in a small dull-farm.”
“It’s a good place.” Jimmy pushed liis
plate away thoughtfully. “You could do a
lot there.”
“You could do more in gay Paree. Kill
another bottle, Digger; we’re running dry.”
Mealy looked anxiously at Ducros.
“Listen, my dear James.” The bland
accented voice purred on, and a city of
delights, artistic and otherwise, came to
life. The Poulet au Sang Avas served rever-
ently into the three plates, raising its
storm of admiration while the interbalanced
responsibilities of money and art were ex-
plained. Jimmy pushed his plate away and
was very grave, listening to this. Mealy
took up the tale and was hearty and human
rather than artistic.
A silent shadow, Hyacinthe Pecochet moved
back and forth from kitchen to table and
serving-table with the fruits of his sublime
skill.
Yet this gravity on Jimmy’s young be-
wildered face did not lessen. Indeed, it
seemed to increase as the perfect meal dreAV
to its close. Nor was his ripeness taking the
natural course. Something was checking, his
growth. Mealy glared furiously at Ducros,
and vice versa, and both worked all out.
But in the end the business done was nil,
saving an appointment with Jimmy for
lunch at the Cafe de la Tour on the morrow.
And it was a hard job to get that.
“One belie\ T es,” Hyacinthe Pecochet said
tAventy minutes ' after' the hour of this
appointment had passed, “that he cannot be
long now.”
Mealy continued to bite his nails.
Monsieur Ducros was worried. “He is a
countryman with few friends, Monsieur, and
as a rule strict to keep his engagements.
One wonders if an accident” Ducros’
eyes were morose and baffled. He knew
the fruit when it was ripe, and James had
been over-ripe. Something had bitten the
fool.
Mealy spat suddenly and put his thumb-
nail in his mouth again. Talk about nerves!
The big figure came round the corner of
Triangle-street and into the cafe.
The young man had a firmness, a certain
hardness to-day. Looking at these gentle-
men he was not bewildered, as last night.
“I’m not coming to Paris with you,” he
said. “I’m going back to Wagga on the
evening train.”
“For the love of Mike! Here”
“My dear James, why in Heaven’s
name?” Ducros was plaintive. , “You are
throwing ■ away a‘ll your beautiful hopes, your
chance of fame. Why?” ; •,
“I could never tackle it. I’m an Austra-
lian farmer-and'l couldn’t' make a French
artist of myself. -I’m going back.”
“Back to Bertha?” It was a mistake, but
Mealy’s fury." cepldn’t help it.
“Back to' Bertha, if you like,” Jimmy
said simply;' “Why not?”
“But, James—listen. Come to lunch now.
Some food” —*— •
“That’s just ;it. f The food in Paris’d kill
me in a. week, for a start. While you fellows
were bogging into that dinner last night
and saying how wonderful it was, I was
nearly sick all the time. Every mouthful
PafiP VOrSe ' 1 * now I couldn’t go it in
lhey stared at him. “But TAmoc, i.
night s dinner was sublime—a perfect
sequence and perfect food!” P itect
iPi gilt * iave been, to you. To me it
was all too seasoned, too rank.” He shud
dered “That’s what showed me I ou l
never tackle it. A feed of corned-beef and
cabbage is my line and I’m going back to
where I can get it.”
This was clearly final. Monsieur Ducros
knew when the fruit was out of reach He
snarled. And what about the passports
and reservations?” he demanded. “Wlnt
about all this gay life, all the cash I’ve
poured out, eh?”
For a moment Jimmy’s face was puzzled
again. It became bleak as he crossed before
the desk and stood over Monsieur Ducros
“Let me know my share,” he said. “I’ll nav
it. Anything else?” ■ 1 y
No one answering him, he turned and went
away.
Presently those two gentlemen went away
also, storming at each other down Brazier-
street.
In the kitchen Hyacinthe Pecochet took
a napkin from a little pile of four plates
Was it possible that, after all his labor in
washing them last night, they still retained
—he lifted one to his nose. His eyes
narrowed and seemed to shrivel. An infamy
of garlic and anchovy, like an echo of the
charnel-house, swept over him, a maleficence
beyond words. Garlic and anchovy he had
rubbed into these four plates on which the
food for the young stranger had been
served until they stank to Heaven even now.
They must be washed again.
He sighed. How deeply an artist may sin
against his art! But a grey heavy face,
lying and bland, rose before his memory.
“Not French, my old rogue,” he whispered ;
“not born in my own Passy. The zed in
French is soft —very soft!”
The Queen’s Song.
The queen, in a high silver tower,
Took her harp and sang an hour,
And what she sang of no man knew,
Only the melody came through
The thickness of the silver walls,
The darkness of the empty halls
And sunlit yards where courtiers stood;
The '•n'otes released their frozen blood
And charmed the . flowers and hushed the
'. birds; r ." .. ■' ; , ' '
Men heard'the'song; but not the words.
And when the 'queen had sung an hour,
Alone in the high silver' tower,
She. put aside; her; golden crown
And" let ’ her' golden tresses ■ down,
And swift undid her golden dress,
And “rose in 'her white loveliness
Free of all world’s sweet treacheries.
Men looked in . one another’s eyes
As the song ceased and each one said
To each: “The Queen, the Queen is dead.”
ENGLAND.
D. P. McGUIRE.


%
■: i • '
--
*1 ■ * ■ ■■ ;
P •* . ~, -*
|.tJ. £.M'JU JilkUitkiiM ■■»■■ ■*'
✓
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock —wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.,
<iueenniand Ag*nt*-HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, WelHiUfto:«• Melbourne
Adelaide, S.A.
CONCORD WEST, N.
“THE AGE”
Victoria’* Leading Morning Daily
Established 185 If.
ADVERTISERS!
Tho Court instructs every .lury to keep an
open mind, and record a verdict according to
tlie evidence placed before them.
When considering future allocations for Vic-
toria, weigh the following evidence for “The
Age.”
Audited net Sales 122,501 daily
(00% Metropolitan 40% Country).
Over 0(1% of distribution home
delivered to subscribers.
Over 05% of home deliveries remain
in the household for reading during
the day.
And over 1,000,000 advertisements
are published in its columns annually.
“The Age’s” dominant note is “Australia
First,” and its effect on the minds of
readers and power for good to the Common-
wealth are incalculable.
Further information and rates on application
to the principal Service Agents in all States,
or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
47 Fleet Street, London.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
fgdn
jfgjutfgd
fgnj
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUN WICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.),
July shows further substantial increases
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1920.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
Cbe mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
(Established 1554)
The "Mercury” is the only Metro-
politan Newspaper in the State.
Its news services, articles, typo-
graphy are unexcelled in Australia.
THE “MERCURY” COVERS
TASMANIA
And its circulation exceeds the
combined figures of the dailies in
Tasmania. Delivered by fast motor-
cars, it reaches Launceston (121
miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before break-
fast.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square ’
BW 5179. *
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
Che Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price 1 id.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. REDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Experimenting!
How much a year do
you waste in unneces-
sary experiments?
Cut waste and
advertise with a
“Result Bringer.”
“The
Telegraph”
(^Brisbane)
Has proved itself over
58 years a good “Result
Bringer” for all adver-
tisers.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
and Elizabeth Streets,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Sydney Representative:
N. L. ROBERTS,
Country Press Co-op. Co. of’ Aust., Ltd.,
Barrack Street, Sydney.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
paper 6 64 'Page woman’s
wealth pu K hsh , ed , » the Common-
weaitn. it features n
woman ought to know. Once von
t s never be without'Tt
its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The 9? 4 ul i etin Newspaper Co.,
-14 George Street, Sydney.
When ail id not
well with digestion
tfZhpn*
PMa
Worth a
Guinea
a Box.
UU
Sri
•srs
<»S
❖
, ‘The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same day of publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner.'’ “Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from;
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Patterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
426 National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
726 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
s f J%ulUtCa
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 8 months from
for which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
Yf
(K
0°
( V' C V’-
ssV
AV <s e
\\ e „ 3°
.-••.-•• V
.• * ,v'’ AVjO*
• * 0*


r
“Finger-Tip Control”—a single
button in centre of steering wheel
starts the engine and operates the
lights and horn.
The Simplest and
Most Efficient of Engines
HE simplicity of the
patented Willys-Knight
double sleeve-valve
engine results in remarkable
smoothness, efficiency and
economy. When you get
behind the wheel of a Willys-
Knight, you will agree that in
no other car will you find such
a smooth, even flow of tre-
mendous power.
In each cylinder two sturdy
metal sleeves move smoothly
and quietly up and down, one
within the other, in a protec-
tive film of oil. They emit
petrol vapor and expel burnt
gases through openings in their
sides. , There are no poppet
valves or springs to require
grinding-in or adjusting.
The style of the Willy s-Knight
sets the modern mode. When
you see the new 708 you will
agree that only among cars of
much higher price can you find
any comparison of this smart-
ness of line, harmony of color
and richness of finish.
A demonstration of the Willys-
Knight 708 will reveal its
remarkable performing ability,
while long service will prove
its dependability, rugged
endurance and exceptional
operating economy.
Any Whippet-Willys-Knight
dealer will gladly arrange a
complete demonstration and
explain fully the simplicity
and greater efficiency of the
Knight sleeve-valve engine.
Gyle 1930
WILLYS-KNIGHT
7 OR”
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
E. G. EAGER & SON, LTD.,
Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, Brisbane.
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
68-70 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
OVERLAND VICTORIA PTY., LTD.,
117-121 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
ADAMS MOTORS, LIMITED,
442 Murray Street, Perth.
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LTD.,
148-150 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
53-63 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
