

HOW PROFOUNDLY TRUE IT IS-
GREAT THINGS COME
FROM SCOTLAND!
Prince Charles Edward Stuart,
descendant of Kings. A man
who so stirred the heart of
Scotland that men left homes
and crofts,wives and children
to follow him. At his bid-
ding, the high hills echoed to
the skirl of the pipes Summon-
ing the Highlanders to fight
forthetrue cause. Then came
the swift rise of hope that
fell with Culloden. The long
weary months of flight. Out
on the hills, hunted like a
deer, hiding in dank caves—
in poor bothies. Such a re-
ward on his head that a
quarter of it would have made
the fortunes of his guardians.
But none of them, poor as
they were, betrayed him.
Few men could have inspired
such devoted love and
sacrifice. And it is the ever-
fragrant memory of that de-
votion which has brought to
Prince Charles —and to Scot-
land such undying fame.
§•
i
i
m
1
m.
mmm
m
Vi
1
M
ASK ALWAYS FOR DEWAR’S—THE SCOTCH WHISKY
The Bulletin
Shecial
Vol. 51.—N0. 2619.
Wednesday,April 23, 1930.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


the Library Catalogue and
d lists on all subjects, which
led post free on application to
BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
George Street, Sydney.
Learn
freelance
Journalism
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
M" Address
5.8.316
vnvHxsm*
0
O
JLHOVSATtL
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght's Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and ecjual to the best imported.
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
*» h :
jr
m
tuit
THE PICNIC
HoSl Holbrook Says:
“Those chops grill-
ed in the open air
over a bush fire!
Nothing more appetis-
ing when served with
my Worcestershire
Sauce.”
m
THE GIFT HE HAD ALWAYS HOPED
FOR.
ROLLS
RAZOR
THE 3RITISa ONE-BLADE SAFETY,
that Strops and Hones Itself.
THE IDEAL GIFT FOR A MAN
it will save him the cost of thousands
of wafer Blades
Imp. Model. No. 1, 45/; No. 3. 85/.
At all Hieh Ciass Stores. Chemists,
and Tobacconists.
The Rolls Razor Co. of Aust.
8a Castlereagh-st.. Sydney.
THE PATRIOT
laraECTM^^i^miEMi
AND ALL BRISBANE READS H
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed-
e
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Officii: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
RHEUMATISM
a
V
X
G
O
N
E
HARRISONS
PULS
Those twinges in legs, knees and teet, that
nagging backache and headache, those puffy
eyes—they spell “ u-r-i-c a-c-i-d” I Get the
acid out by taking Harrison’s Pills. Relief
follows immediately. Any Chemists, 2/-,
3/- or 5/-. Quick teneal certain t
'Removeifie GauM /''
A AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper, and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 350 Geoi-ge Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE . . .. ... . . . . 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
CAUTION.—The large sale of Eumenthol
Jujubes has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure to get
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. You may
be hsked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6
in stamps to the Manufacturers, Hudson’s
Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd., Sydney.
For Coughs, Colds and Sore Throats.
G»
A. Hie Larynx 01
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea oi
Windpipe.
C. Th e Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
D. A Lobe of on*
of che Lungs.
The Red Page
Wallace Elliott’s Poems
Currie and Alexander’s Treasury of New
Zealand Verse, exactly agreeing with its
title, seems to me the most excellent of
local anthologies. Not, indeed, for poetical
merit; but for poetical adequacy in its
domain. It is still possible to draw the
essence of Maoriland verse into a single
commercial volume. The Australian field
is so wide that an Australian editor must
definitely choose and omit. But a Maori-
land editor can choose and accept. There
is not such a much that he must put in,
and little that he need leave out.
In Currie and Alexander’s work I feel
the strength and honesty of Maoriland
represented. The country is preferred to
the art: or, rather, the art is thoughtfully
employed to reflect the country. Naturally,
therefore, when one thinks of the reason
(yet somewhat curiously to a stranger who
comes seeking poetry rather than patriot-
ism) the examples of fine work in the
collection seem to lose a part of their lustre.
By a literary application of Gresham’s
law, the baser coinage appears to be ousting
the superior. A Treasury of New Zealand
Verse smells distinctly of that admirable,
yet not entirely admirable product, frozen
mutton.
And it has nothing to say about Wallace
Alexander Elliott.
This, we may agree, is principally Wal-
lace Alexander’s own fault. In the last
dozen or score of years lie has written
several thousand lines of verse in the
atmosphere of poetry. By favor of the
author a typescript is before me, with per-
mission to cite examples. I would say that
the soul of Maoriland scenery has not
been so deeply felt or so fully shown before.
Elliott writes chiefly his reactions to Nature
—the spectacle of land and sea and sky.
He describes the South Island as lovingly
as Domett described the North Island; and
better, because he writes not as a foreigner
extolling alien beauty, but as a son of the
soil, intimately, possessive and possessed.
And, having done this, he has been so
shy or so modest that he is unknown in
his own country, and the sedulous Currie,
the industrious Alexander, have altogether
missed him. He has not “burst his birth’s
invidious bar” to any marked degree in
the “Otago Witness.” He has not “grasped
the skirts of happy chance” in “The
Artists 7 " - a.nd Writers’ Annual.” He is de-
ficient in the characteristic Maoriland
virtues of commercial energy and pecuniary
push. In fact, he smells like a poet, and
not like frozen mutton.
Take a short poem for tasting:—
A thousand shades fall with the night,
A thousand high stars quiver;
But, till thou comest from the hills,
• I wait —although for ever.
The mystic lights may shine on me,
The silent airs may shiver;
But to the mountains still I turn
My face, and watch for ever.
Still thy lips fall not on my cheek
Nor my starved lips deliver;
O, leave the stream-side and the hills!
Come to my side for ever!
Or I shall seek the vacant breast
Of silent Sleep’s old river: »
0, long the stars have shown thy path
To where I wait for ever.
Not all of us can write so sincerely pas-
s;onately. Nor can Elliott always attain
that compact expression: his verse wanders
far and long, though always with a brood-
ing heat beneath the lines, if not distinctly
in them. His poetry is like an atmosphere,
a climate. I breathe mountain air, sooth-
ing, refreshing, exalting; but I feel rather
than see the imminent stars. There is much
like this:—
The time of greyer skies and duskier vales
Drew onward, and the earth more silent fell:
Save in their broken beds the rushing streams
And the high hill-wind in its rocky holds.
So on, descriptively, till a solitary tui
sang:—
Sudden, one last delirious ecstasy
Like a spring-spirit’s life-invoking hail
Lit up a hollow lone with silent pine:
Clear as the starlight; swift as spear and
javelins!
Serene and salient as the morning planet
Pouring its splendor over land and sea;
Secret as dying sunset in far valleys; •
Pure as the first south wind when winter nears....
And the soul throws off the spell of dying
autumn:—
The young grass growing in the chilliest dells,
The restless winds that haunt the high cold hills
All stir the freezing soul still in whose dust
Harbors the infinite spark, enduing spring.
I avow a certain religious monotony in
Elliott, as in Thomas a Kempis. Never-
theless, if you multiply those hints of
poetical quality by 3000 lines you will per-
ceive that he brings a mass of work rare
and highly valuable in these countries. It
e is, like Neilson, a manual
o rural life, long an Otago
resident in Christchurch;
of age. By favor of The
ilicity I commend Elliott to
l. I have no doubt of his
essential merit and final praise. His work
is Maoriland worship.
IN CITY PENT.
On a lawn that a stream flows over
I would like to stand once more ;
Wild fern and moss w'ould cover
My feet and footsteps o’er.
I would fall down lonely, lowly,
By the cells of the sleeping rain,
Till my spirit' quickened slowly
With mysterious peace again.
I would hear the tui, swooning
With the dim wine of her heart,
Make her long, melodious crooning
And her griefs in Night depart;
And that sound, from Heaven sunken,
Would wake echoes in my soul
Till my thirstied heart be drunken
And this broken voice be whole.
A.G. STEPHENS.
Invective and Abuse
One of the best examples of printed
abuse in Australia that I have heard of
was written by a Victorian provincial
journalist. A woman had dared to set
herself up in charge of the opposition sheet,
and “When a female baboon squats in
the gutter and spits forth her venom”
opened the rival blast. There have been
other fair examples in the press, but
few worthy specimens have got be-
tween Australian book-covers. Indeed,
an outline of such a potentially pro-
vocative subject as Australian literature
has lately been published without one word
of abuse. Its author, Mr. Green, should
be enshrined as the kindliest man who ever
attempted to be a critic. His declining
even to condemn any one of his many
score geniuses is classic in its way. How-
ever, if all his geese are swans, at least he
runs no risk of joining Carlyle, who made
most swans geese. The choicest of Car-
lyle’s abuse, with much other abuse not.
much below it, and some above it, is con-
tained in one of the brightest anthologie
to date, Invective and Abuse, compiled by
Hugh Kingsmill (Eyre and Spottiswoode;
Roycroft, Sydney).
For the merit of sheer abuse, Swin-
burne on Emerson would be hard to better
in any language:—
A foul mouth is so ill-matched with a white beard
that I would gladly believe the newspaper-scribe
. alone responsible for the bestial utterances which
they declare to have dropped from a teacher whom
such disciples as these exhibit to our disgust and
compassion as performing on their obscene platform
the last tricks of tongue now possible to a gap-
toothed and hoary-headed ape, carried at first into
notice on the shoulder of Carlyle, and who now
in his dotage spits and chatters from a dirtier perch
of his own finding and fouling.
Carlyle, however, is always the more
forcible, because what he says he says in
a breath. Herbert Spencer is the “most
unending ass in Christendom.” “Shelley is
a poor creature, who has said or done no-
thing worth a serious man being at the
trouble of remembering.” A few more of
the Carlylean judgments:—
George Sand.—ln the world there are few sadder,
sicklier phenomena for me than George Sand and
the responses she meets with.... A new Phallus
worship, with Sue, Balzac, and Co., for prophets,
and Madam Sand for a virgin.
Macaulay.—At bottom, this Macaulay is but a
poor creature with his dictionary literature and
erudition, his saloon arrogance. He has no vision
in him. He will neither see nor do any great thing,
but be a poor Holland House unbeliever, with
spectacles instead of eyes, to the end of him.
Coleridge.—A weak, diffusive, weltering, ineffec-
tual man.... a great possibility that has not
realised itself. Never did I see such apparatus got
ready for thinking, and so little thought. He mounts
scaffolding, pulleys, and tackle, gathers all the tools
in the neighborhood with labor, with noise, demon-
stration, precept, abuse, and sets—three bricks.
Lamb.—Cftarles Lamb I sincerely believe to be in
some considerable degree insane. A more pitiful,
ricketty, gasping, staggering, stammering Tomfool
Ido not know.... Poor Lamb! Poor England,
when such a despicable abortion is named genius!
Keats.—Fricassee of dead dog [Monckton Milnes’
Life of Keats] A truly unwise little book. The
kind of man that Keats was gets ever more horrible
to me. Force of hunger for pleasure of every kind
and want of all other force —such a soul, it would
once have been very evident, was a chosen “vesse 1
of Hell”; and truly, for ever there is justice in
that feeling.
Gladstone.—Gladstone appears to me one of the
contemptiblest men I ever looked on.
Swift, Dickens, Thackeray are not directly
personal enough for their efforts to win
great renown as abuse, even though a
modem writer has said that if Swift had
been present when Thackeray was abusing
him he would have eaten Mr. Thackeray,
white waistcoat and all. Johnson does
much better:—
What would you have me retract? I thought
your book an imposture; I think it an imposture
still Your rage I defy. Your abilities, since
your Homer, are not so formidable; and what 1
hear of your morals, inclines me to pay regard not
to what you shall say, but to what you shall prove.
You may print this if you will.
There is little in this collection to better
the very modern letter of A. G. Gardiner
to Lord Northcliffe, written in the early
days of the war, when Gardiner edited
the “Daily News.” The war, Gar-
diner asserted, would make an end “of the
most sinister influence that has ever cor-
rupted the soul of English journalism.”
But the gem of the book, for its savagery.
(Red Page continued on -page 5.)


è
(\r\l \/\.isr\
Autumn nights! Through open bedroom windows, air that
is crisp, tangy, kiting. A warm bed, then for sound sleep—
a bed made snug and comfortable by soft, fleecy blankets*
See the incomparable values of the blankets listed here.
Three lines, too, are especially priced.
Under these exquisitely soft and fleecy all-wool white blankets you are conscious
only of warmth and never of weight. Full size and standard weight.
Sizes, inches 54 x 78 63x 81 72 x 90 81x 99 90 x 108
Prices, pair .... 35/- 44/- 55/- 69/6 82/6
Supreme quality is revealed in these fine white blankets that are full size and
weight.
Sizes, inches 54 x 72 63 x 81 72 x9O 81x 99
Prices, pair 28/6 35/11 45/- 55/-
Merely to say that they are made of Merino wool is sufficient recommendation
for these best-quality, superfine weave, soft and fleecy blankets. Boxed, ready
for presentation purposes.
Sizes, inches 63x 81 72 x9O 81x 99
Prices, pair 72/6 86/6 105/-
These all-wool cot blankets are splendid values.
500 Pairs White Blankets,
Specially Priced
These are full standard weight and size.
Sizes, inches 54x78 63x81 72x90 81 x 99
Prices, pair ...... 29/6 38/6 48/6 59/6
To clear 24/6 30/9 38/9 47/11
500 Pairs Grey Blankets,
Specially Priced
These, also, are full standard weight and size.
Sizes, inches 54 x 78 63 x 81 72 x 90 81 x 99
Prices, pair 27/6 34/6 43/6 53/6
To clear .... 21/6 26/6 33/6 41/6
White Blankets, Specially Priced
Not only are these white blankets soft and fleecy, but
they possess superior wearing qualities. Full standard
size and weight.
Sizes, inches 54 x 72 81 x 99
Prices, pair 32/6 67/6
To clear 28/6 55/-
Dept., First Floor. We pay carriage.
It is not necessary to pay cash
for these blankets if you use
our D.P.S. Make a deposit,
pay the remainder in con-
venient instalments, and when
payments are completed the
merchandise will be delivered
in the usual xoay. Only the
cash price is charged.
Anthony Horderns'
(The Senior Store)
‘Phone: M 21,01
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


Chevrolet owners set new
economy records for quality cars
Chevrolet Six proves superiority
in State-wide tests
Winner does 40.5 m.p.g.
454 contestants average
29.75 miles per gallon
233 contestants do better
than 29.75 miles per gallon
112 contestants do better
than 32 miles per gallon
Once again Chevrolet vindicates
public opinion—proves that the
public is correct in preferring it to
any car in the low priced field.
: #,/ mu
&zwm»iissmmfi
<m
mm
«§ifi|§iiip
.
*V/'
mm
% ;Vt
«s$ If
11%
■
'Zt
Mr. R. Kay, owner and driver of the winning car in Victoria .
Mr. Kay did 40.5 miles per gallon.
TN two widely separated
States, 454 people have
engaged in friendly competi-
tion to demonstrate their
driving skill and the capacity
of their Ghevrolets to give
really satisfactory performance
at astonishingly low cost.
The results speak for them-
selves. This Chevrolet Six
is economical to run. Here
is no freak performance —454
contestants average 29.75 miles
per gallon—the winner did
40.5 miles per gallon—ll 2 con-
testants did better than 32
miles per gallon—233 did
better than average.
Owner-drivers all—no pro-
fessionals —and the contests
were held under regulatory
sponsorship of R.A.C. or C.A.I.
officials. We congratulate the
ladies who participated, on
their splendid performances.
The best record of a lady driver
to date is 35.8 miles per gallon.
“For economical transporta-
tion” has always been the
Chevrolet slogan. Once again
Chevrolet proves its right to
this slogan—and adds new
reasons for the public convic-
tion that in economy, beauty,
and performance it is the one
car in the low priced range
that is unapproached in value.
Low in price, Chevrolet gives
you all the advantages that
only a sturdy six-cylinder
engine can give. Your local
dealer will gladly arrange to
demonstrate to you the model
of your choice. He will explain
the easy G.M.A.C. purchasing
plan, and the exceptional ser-
vice facilities which every
Chevrolet owner shares. Ask
for booklet, “Economy Hints
for Motorists.”
Metropolitan Distributors
Metropolitan Motors Ltd.,
Adelaide St., BRISBANE.
Stokoe Motors Pty. Ltd.,
559-565 Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE.
John McGrath Ltd.,
155 Elizabeth St., SYDNEY.
City Motors Limited,
95 Waymouth St., ADELAIDE.
é


WNCHESTFh
4'
41
4
*V
STAYNLESS
4F
&
Si
fMSH
:<r
WJS
/I
Hr
1*?
*{pte
'.'ID
X
S
5®
!S»
i
i
I
riOM
m
ail
W
|l§l!f
5S
WINCHESTER
TRADE MARK
STAYNLESS
CENTER FIRE CARTRIDGES
YV/ITH all the old-time Winchester accuracy and dependability
*V and our special non-corrosive priming mixture, which neither
rusts nor pits your barrel. They save you the trouble of con-
stantly cleaning your barrel and long protect the shooting
qualities of your favorite guns.
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN, CONN., U. S. A.
ê
Always use Winchester Ammunition with
Winchester Arms—they ore made for each other
ë
its bitterness, the coldness of its reason,
was both inspired and written in Australia.
It is R. L. Stevenson’s famous defence of
rather Damien against insinuations in a
letter written by Dr. C. M. Hyde. Its
most personal note is the open comment to
Dr. Hyde: “The blue ribbon which adorns
your portly bosom forbids me to allow you
the extenuating plea that you were drunk
when it was done.” Stevenson’s whole letter
is one of the most brilliant things in the
way of defence ever written. It is most
abusive, but, unlike most abuse, it reveals
a character that might be excused any
abuse it cared to fling.
CECIL MANN.
The Teaching of English
According to “Scotia” (R.P. 2/4/’3O), the
examination system is killing literary
appreciation. But the fact that many of
the books set are provided with copious
notes and introductions does not mean that
the whole time of the pupils is spent in
committing them to memory. And how
would “Scotia” as a student of 17 or 18
have liked to meet the following passage
from Sir Thomas Browne’s “Hydriotaphia”
without the help of notes? I quote from
one of this year’s Leaving Certificate books:
While we look for incorruption in the heavens, we
find they are but like the earth; durable in their
main bodies, alterable in their parts: whereof,
besides comets and new stars, perspectives begin to
tell tales; and the spots, that wander about the
sun, with Phsethon’s, favor, would make clear con-
viction.
What child could properly understand that
without the help of a note or two! Yet
it would be a pity to have such a noble
passage as the one of which it is a part
omitted when a few words from an editor
would make all clear to the student. Notes
and introductions are surely not, in them-
selves, an evil. They become one only
when they are made the end and not the
means. A glance at any Leaving Certifi-
cate English paper will show that not a
single question deals with textual criticism.
Admittedly the Shakspearean play has to
be studied in detail, but surely even
“Scotia” would not suggest that anyone
could really appreciate, say, “Hamlet”
without having some knowledge of the
characters and the method of construction.
“Scotia’s” desideratum of “general” read-
ing is exactly what is aimed at by the
examiners, and for that purpose three "books
of vastly different types are set for general
study. Candidates can take their pick.
Anyway, should we not try to produce
scholars as well as mere appreciators? No
one can become a scholar without a certain
amount of hard and, at times, compara-
tively uninteresting work. No doubt, as
Australians, we do not love hard work, but
the sooner we are trained to it the better.
Many a mother is grieved because her
child throws away his violin or deserts
the piano for the gramophone, but perhaps
the neighbors are not so downcast. And
so with literature. Many who say that they
were turned from the enjoyment of poetry
because of the way they were taught at
school fail to realise, as their teachers do,
that from the outset they were doomed to
failure. It was only the foolish pride of
the parents that was responsible for these
aspirations. They tried to make intellec-
tuals of them instead of the perfectly good
plumbers or carpenters that nature intended
them to be.
Cato.
The most striking feature about
“Scotia’s” article is its antique flavor.
During the first decade of this century the
cry went up that our youth were being in-
structed solely in the mechanics of know-
ledge. That “Scotian” ciy was heeded by
authority. Result, so far as New South
Wales is concerned: Peter Board’s “New
Syllabus.” Effect: “Soft” pedagogy, go-as-
you-please intellectual etiolation. “Scotia’s”
cure for the evil he is so sure he detects is
a more highly concentrated dose of its
cause—“broad questions on a child’s general
reading on a syllabus that is merely indi-
cated.” Ye gods! Does “Scotia” know
anything about the ways of children? Is
he aware that the conventional state known
as civilisation” is abhorrent to the voung;
that it is only by “indication” backed by
force that we can produce a decent race?
Does Scotia” recognise that, under his
anaemic system, young folk would learn
absolutely nothing about the works we
grown-ups consider to be the gems of litera-
ture?
Experience indicates the duty of the
language teacher. He must place the adult
point of view before the child; he must
P° out clearly what is fine literature, and
why that literature is fine; he must analyse
and explain, looking closely into the parts
as well as standing well back to view the
whole. That is why examiners demand a
detailed knowledge of certain books, the
study of which gives the child a standard
of criticism to help him in a wider field in
later years.
. No; the treatment of our literature is,
m the main, reasonably sound. It is our
language that has suffered most from the
New Education.” But signs of a change
are not lacking, and when grammar and
spelling are finally restored to their right-
ful place in our primary schools, and the
study of style and precision of expression
leceive the attention they merit in our
secondary schools, the Golden Age of
English Teaching will have begun.
HIBERNLA.
Another Lindsay Translation
The translation of Catullus, by Jack
Lindsay (Fanfrolico Press), is an invigorat-
ing relief from some of the efforts that have
been made to reduce the raw spirit and
robust beer of yesterday to the milk-and-
water of to-day. Jack Lindsay assumes the
role not only of Englisher, but of counter-
part. His plan of attack is: “If this lusty
fellow were writing with the words at my
disposal, these are the ones he’d certainly
use.” lie takes up Catullus in a sprightly
use of his day’s vernacular, and, not being
the pedant the average translator is, he
matches it with the same forceful, absurdly
despised and snobbishly underestimated
stratum of language. The result is odd
to anyone who looks upon the old tongues
as speaking always with a pedigreed
accent; but the truth is that when Jack
Lindsay uses “up the spout” or some such
so-called vulgarity he is giving what he has
found, though maybe a little freshened.
In this rendering of the work of Clodia’s
lover, as in his “Mimes of Herondas” and
other translations, there is a clearly visible
impress of Jack Lindsay, arising no doubt
from his peculiar choice of words and fond-
ness for several; but he succeeds above
that in translating the poet-character, which
is quite as clear between the lines as is the
bearded figure (if he still wears one) of the
translator. He has a fine fellow-feeling with
his hero, and a. gusto and freedom of
thought and expression that would suggest
him as the ideal translator of Rabelais if
that worthy hadn’t appeared and done his
work long ago. Just how this translator-
original duo appears in the reading could
not be shown without considerable quota-
tion, and that would have to be carefully
varied, because, though the most perfect
match always lies in what is masculine in
both, there is abundant more tender feel-
ing. It is, however, when the note is
dramatic that Jack Lindsay shows at his
best, just as his own poetic dramas are
clearly his finest original work. This
extract holds only a drop of the essence
of either poet or translator, but for that
drop it serves:—
The coverlet is broidered with the deeds
of men of ancient days; and broidered so
the craft shows worthily the deeds of heroes.
For there, amid the surf of heavy' noise,
on Dia’s shore stands Ariadna wildly
watching the ships of Theseus tossing out,
poor Ariadna mad in her despair.
She cannot yet believe the thing she sees;
she has just woken up, and waking learned
the treachery of sleep; she finds herself
a waif upon a lonely waste of s&'nd—■
but the young lover flees, among the waves
his oars are foaming, and his vows are gone
into the tattered noises of the wind.
And after him the girl is wildly staring—
he is afar, she on the weedy beach
weeps: a maenadising frenzy struck
to sudden marble, she, the child of Minos,
stares out across tha waves of her tosst mind
and its great race of passion.
Then she rips
the dainty headgear from her golden hair,
she rips the flimsy stuff her breasts had filled
and bares her breasts; and then she tears the girdle
which tied the ripples of her milky flesh —
and all these garments slip and she is naked,
with salt of foam liplapping at her feet.
-She does not care that she is standing naked,
she does not care for anything but you,
Theseus, and you she loves; yes, all her love,
each thought that strains her body and her soul
towards the horizon, Theseus, is for you,
and lost for ever.
No small part of the book, in word-bulk
or literary value, is the long essay by the
translator, wherein he starts off apparently
intent upon holding the living Catullus up
for inspection and finishes only after having
turned a warm flood of light on to the
whole period in which Catullus lived,
flourished, loved and died. A briefer
inquiry into the technical quality of the
work, a table of notes, fine wood engrav-
ings by Lionel Ellis and choice binding
add to the book’s completeness.
A Satchel of Books
The Shakspeare Songs (Dent). All the
lyrics written by -or attributed to Shak-
speare, with an engaging introduction by
Walter de la Mare, and notes, glossary and
index.
More Obiter Dicta, by Augustine Birrell
(Heinemann). Like pretty well every
volume added to the Travellers’ Library, an
admirable addition. The criticisms, first pub-
lished in book form in 1924, range from
about then back into the ’nineties. And the
Birrell is the Birrell of the first “Obiter
Dicta” and “Res Judicatee.”
The Specialist, by Charles Sale (Putnam).
First published in America about a year
ago, this joyous brevity has, according to
the publisher, already sold more than 300,000
copies in the U.S.A. alone and is accepted
as a minor American classic. The author
asserts that his “specialist,” who specialises
in the building of privies, is literally alive.
That does not matter much ; on paper he is
a rare creation, so dead serious in his pro-
fession that he and everything he says are,
quite unintentionally, uproariously funny.
Letters of George Sand, selected and
translated by Veronica Lucas (Routledge).
Two sides of George Sand’s character—the
scandalous and the literary—have had
enough airing. Here is another, revealed
through letters as virile, strong and patently
human as the great bulk of her other
writings is not. Her two books a year for
50 years, her tally of 80 or so novels, are
as good as forgotten, except as performances
that it takes a Dumas to equal and which
makes Scott in 48 volumes a mere trifle.
She stands merely as the lover and sup-
porter of effeminate males like Chopin and
De Musset. These letters do her talent
as well as her amazing industry somethin-*
more like justice. She wrote them at the
rate of ten a day, and they come in this
translation as quick from her pen as ever
They reveal her as a fine writer and as a
woman of great sympathies and humanity
It would be hard to better them amonsr
collections of letters written by women &
Answers to Correspondents.
2\o notice {except of a hostile character') will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
ana address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted ;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
James M. B.: “Evensong” best of a batch
which all had some merit.... Farmer: Your facts
being wrong, your argument is wrong. We don’t
know one single bank in Australia that has issued
shares except for cash in the past 25 years; and
before that their losses of capital were tremendous.
•. . . Ivenn r Just a murder. .. . i..11.\\ .: “Walls” you
call it? “Wails” it should be M.L.: Not a
bad first effort... .P.M.: Story of youthful receiver
a bit over the fence C.O’D.: Trifle light
as air blown back 0.W.8.J.: Like the
description of a hot day—“ Just as if the Devil
and all his stokers had stuck their heads out of
Hell and breathed over the plain”.... T.Y.W.:
Neither plausible nor pleasing J.W.: Have read
many tall yarns, but ! A.C.L.: Draws a big
cheque on credulity R.A.J.: “The Gourmet” a bit
too much to swallow.... M. J.: A new twist to an
old tale. Style immature M.C.D.: Covers oft-
trodden ground M.B. (Eng.): Well done, but not
m this paper’s line C.C.: A play has to be very
good to pass. Yours is fair, but why does your abo.
speak like an American negro? M.W.: Still don’t
like “Mahina,” though it is better R.J.: Have
had enough of him M.P.: An idea in “Vision,”
but it’s a trifle precious.... Wandy: Suffer’ from
slightness, and that’s a bad sort of blight Ju-ju;
Burnt it. ... Iconnue: Came too late H. J.: Can’t
think of anyone who’d be eager to read it L.W.:
Bump, bump, bump T.A.S.: Is it meant as a
contribution to the Said Before page?. .. .1.U.: You
seem to have taken the road to Piccadilly... .P.N.:
“Our Dog” has a lean and hungry look N.M.H.:
Made our pick for the occasion weeks ag0....P.J.:
“Oh, why are you not here to kiss my paint away”
induced the Religious Editor to start packing his
port... .A.T.E.: Read scores like it every week. They
belong to the great middle class, neither good nor
bad enough to be published M.R.L.: May have
done at the time; too late now... .C.C.M.: Anzac
now leading Spring by a long neck in the Inspiration
Stakes, with Memories, Wanderlust, Wattle Blossom
and Mother tailing off. Dinkum Feeling is a long
way back, with hobbles on and no jockey J.O’C.:
Ideas a bit hackneyed.... Gael: No space for mere
descriptions of mountain tops Wimmera: Kick is
justified, but verse takes all the nip out of it....
Rursus: You’re dead right about its mediocrity....
E.W.0’8.: “The Marks Upon the Wall” are too
suggestive of a former piece... .J.F.N.: “I have
the hide to call the enclosed a sonnet, but I am
anxious to know what you would call it.” Ilow
would Fido do? T.S.: Nothing in the short skirts
jingle, except that it’s an inch and a. half out of
date. .. . J.A.: “Tryst” better kept. “Unsaid”
better left... .M.G.D.; Reads like a five-finger exer-
cise. .. .U.G.: All right for the age, but, thousands
do as well in that year L.S.: Strings of descrip-
tive comment are not nearly enough. .. .T.8.P.:
Don’t like to christen anything Lazarus, but it’s
poor enough. .. .R.G.T.: It must have been a line
like “There is no comfort in the sky now” that
suggested the tuning-fork. .. .U.T.: Sounds like a
Chinese puzzle in Welsh... .O.B.: Quiet.. . .Tiller: Set
a course for the w.p.b E.M.H.: Too tender for this
taste.... C.G.: No fancy for the verse that ends in
being merely a leg-pu11.... V.C.: “What of the
Living?” They don’t appear to be alive G.M.:
No paddock for “Thoroughbreds,” no room for Teddy.
. ...J.D.K.: Disappointing end....J.W.: Nothing
tempting in “Our Store”... ,N.Q.: Incoherent and
uninteresting. .. .1.W.: Sorry, the foal grew into a
nightmare.... K.S.: More depressing than the times.
. ...A.H.N.: Brave little soul, but yarn not suitable.
... . G.H.: Graphic, but not a story... .T.P.8.: Joy
that comes in the morning frequently departs in
the evening. .. .A.J.S.: What, has our uncle from
Fiji shifted?... .C.E.R.: Does such a man live?....
Sandgroper: “Sunsets of heavenly glory laying
hungry down to rest” seems a fresh idea... .G.J.R.:
“The Ancient” dodders... .C.Y.: (1) See reply to
“C.C.M.” (2) No rules. You just send ’em in....
E.L.: Home goes the “Sailor”... .E.D.: “Gates”
opened and found creaky... .T.A.: “My wife is
white.” Who questioned it?....M.5.: Sounds
extremely young. .. .F.S.S.: A human little picture
that deserved better treatment.... The Ringer: It’s
an unhappy old tale... .T.McG.: Knocked out, with-
out any trouble... .S.S.: Doesn’t suggest the job of
loading sugar. Reads like a motor-bike race....
C.E.W.: Little in that... .P.F.8.: Thin as a starving
razor-blade. .. .H.H.: Far too many knobs on
“The Backbone”... .P. 8.: No employment to offer
“His Father’s Son”... .A.G.: “Muse of a Layman”
appears to be a lay muse. ...Spl: If that was
published, ten thousand brave souls would arise
and do better... .D.J.: It isn’t very good. .. .L.R.W.:
Pretty, but what else?... .1.D.W.: All obvious state-
ments... .F. 0.: Rocky as the road to Paradise....
Gent. One: Right-o, have it out:—
It charged me on the river bridge,
A savage steer from Lightning Ridge;
Quick as a flash, as I heard the warning bellow,
Upthrust I my old umbrella.
It is now torn to ribbons and treasured by my wife,
Because from certain death it did save my life.
. ...J.M.H.: Idea excellent; treatment moderate....
R.lv.: Had a chance, but other stuff has knocked it
out. ... J.8.G.: The best of controversies must end.
.... T. 0.: Try lobster before you have another
“Dream”.... The Trifler: Too long and too loose.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.J.T.: It will make your postman’s bag a bit
heavier... .R.L.N.: “His Mater’s Voice” fell on un-
sympathetic ears.... J.E.S.: Please don’t model your
ladies on giraffes. .. .W.8.C.: We, too, were out
when the parson knocked.. . .D. 8.: That bulldog must
be tired of feeding on elderly gents’ pants. ...
R. 8.: You have struck the wrong note... .D.W.:
Had to heave “The Hard Case” 0ut....P.8.: Not
far off, but you must take more pains with your
work... .C.C.: Your Bill Sikes will never break
into this paper... .H.L.: We can always depend
on you to help us fill this column. .. .L.H.: Leg-rope
the infants and try some adult humor T.C.:
Crude... .N.F.R.: Don’t toss the towel in yet....
M.T.: Getting a little nearer each week. . . .M.P.P.:
We are done with dentists if they look like that....
F. 8.: You’ve got ideas, but every label you put on
a cartoon reduces its value.


9
FAMOUS
PORT
Nyji
m
: fe, Mm&M
ill
■m
■
:«P
- .
■
--■ .a
■
M
iimmsm
mm
« ,
9
:-■>
.vf.-i
ir:
■
.
SgHHHHSi
■MMi
HE
::
I
■.
Hi
*, Vfc. . - .
*
m
*
SIP ii
■I
■ i-::
Mp ’
ii
m.
k,
Hi
.
'•
m
WP«SS
l/
fir‘
to ■ Hh
m m
Msmmm
• I
n
w
Wm-
. ..p
mm ii?
■ !
: 8
,
11
.'5-
Bjj
r ■
m
I* 1
1- * '
..
: :rv
1/
’ ‘j
■
JR..
*
■
msmk
mi, ,
*
KfeSLlv
L--~ J
■
■Mi K
.-
;.p
ne/v-esi


The Bulletin
Vo!. 51.—N0. 2619.
April 23, 1930.
THE CONSCIENTIOUS OBJECTOR (1930 MODEL).


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 21b George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 B B; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: 11J/-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 21j9 Adelaide Street , Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Wksthalia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 bs.j 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
5 months, 7s.
. To -any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 195.,
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: lOoz., Id. United Kingdom: boz. to 10oz., IJd. ;
each additional J,oz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: boz. or part thereof,
Ul. V.lsexvhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
red page literary ARTICLES .. 2, 5
NEW ZEALAND VERSE, by A. G. Stephens 2
INVECTIVE AND ABUSE, AN ANTHOLOGY,
by Cecil Mann . . .. . . . . 2
THE TEACHING OF ENGLISH . . . . 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. .. 5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON 7
EDITORIALS 8 , 9
CAN PROHIBITION OF IMPORTS DO ANY
GOOD? g
THESE ANZACS! 8
FLINDERS NAVAL TRAINING DEPOT, by
J. H. M. Abbott .. .. . . . 8
THE SPIRIT OF ANZAC, by “Atalanta” .. 8
IS ALL THE WORLD IN THE SAME BOAT? 9
RACING IN QUEENSLAND —A DUD COM-
MISSION 9
OUR FIRST SEA FIGHT, by Two Eye-
Witnesses . . . . . . . . 9
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD . . . . .. 9
POLITICAL POINTS (with eartoonlets by
Frith) 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) . . . . 11, 12
“THE LANDING.” Verse by a Digger who
was there . . .. .. . . .. 11
PERSONAL (with illustrations) . . .. .. 13
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 14, 16
THIS WEEK’S INVESTMENT TIP—
The Difference Between Industrials . . 14
WUNDERLICH’S 14
LONDON STORES' 14
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S 14
PERMEWAN, WRIGHT .... 14
McDOWELL’S 14
LUSTRE HOSIERY 16
“1914-1930”—A drawing by Percival .. .. 17
SHADOW SHOWS—
A GUIDE TO THE PICTURES 17
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) . . . . 18
SYDNEY’S BIGGEST SHOW (with Frith illus-
trations) . . .. . . . . 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 19’, 21
MAN ON THE LAND 22, 25
BETTER LAMBING RETURNS . . . . 22
AVHEAT VARIETIES FOR VICTORIA . . 22
LESSONS FROM SOUTH AFRICA . . . . 22
QUESTIONS ANSWERED 22
HOW TO KEEP FARM ACCOUNTS .. ..25
Free Service Department . .. .. 26
SMOIIE-OH (with three drawings) .. .. 28
POVERTY POINT 31
THE INKY WAY 31
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, etc 33
SPORTING (illustrated) . . . . . . 35, 36
SYDNEY CUP MEETING 35
SERIAL—“MEN ARE HUMAN” 38
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE . . . . 41
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 42
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 43
The New Serial—
“THE PASSAGE,” by Vance Palmer 44, 45, 46
“As We Said Before”—
A NEW WEEKLY FEATURE .. ..47
A COMPLETE STORY—
“THE GATEWAY,” by Dympna Cusack 49, 50
VERSE —By Oscar Walters, Frederick T. Mac-
artney, Clare Thompson, Kathleen Dalziel,
E. J. Brady, Ethel Davies .. 12, 38, 50
NEXT WEEK.
“Are Prices Likely to Recover?”
An inquiry into a problem of the most vital
interest to Australia.
“MOTHER INDIA.”—An expert’s article on the
serious outbreak of disorder in India.
“CENTRAL RESERVE BANK.”—AII article ex-
plaining what it is and discussing whether it’s
wanted.
“THE SUPPLANTER.”—A complete story by W.
D. Flannery.
7Jufsstdleix/n
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 23, 1930.
CAN PROHIBITION OF
IMPORTS DO ANY GOOD?
“ ‘There will, of course,’ said Professor Brigden,
‘be considerable unemployment in the distributing-
trades, and on the wharves, while the Government
will lose tax revenue at the worst possible time.
The export industries cannot escape some added
cost, even if freights are not increased to compen-
sate for freights lost on imports. Port authorities
may find it necessary to increase charges, even if
the shipowners hold off. It is hard, therefore, to
find any justification for the stoppage of imports
for which the money has not to be paid immedi-
ately.’ ”
Once upon a time a parable was written
(or it is being written now) about a
blockaded city which contained a large
population, including Freetraders. Orators
belonging to this Freetrade section spent
much of their time preaching to the hungry
folk inside the city the great principle of
the untrammelled interchange of goods, and
warned them especially against obstructing
the free entrance of food products any-
where and at any time. In proof they
quoted from Adam Smith, R. Cobden,
Henry George, and even from one Huie,
who discourses as often as possible in the
press.
Australia is blockaded by creditors, and
they have stopped the supply of loans
with which it used to buy an insanely large
proportion of its food, drink, clothes and
other necessaries, and with which it also
used to pay its urgent liabilities. It is the
only continent on record which has been,
or could be, blockaded in such a fashion.
Just before the luckless campaign opened
it had reached the point of depending to
the extent of £40,000,000 in an average
year on its compassionate creditors for
goods, or, what comes to the same thing,
the means to buy goods. Stoppage has
been disastrous. And the papers are infested
with letters, articles and reports of speeches
by people who implore the community not
to be guilty of this sort of thing, but to
be enlightened, and reduce or abolish
duties, and let the loan goods continue to
pour in even if we can’t pay for them. This
implies that we and not the people outside
created the financial blockade, and that Aus-
tralia cut off its own money supplies. The
dictum of many apostles is dragged in, more
or less irrelevantly, to explain the position,
but this is done in the face of a serious
difficulty. No nation ever performed
exactly in our way before, and the interval
since our performance being brief, no
genius has since written a standard book
about it for use in universities. The works
on economics assimilated by professors in
their studious days have the disadvantage
which attaches to Pompey’s justly cele-
brated volume on artillery.
The problem can be dealt with on its
merits, without any dragging in qf Free-
trade v. Protection, or homoeopathy v. allo-
pathy, or predestination v. freewill, or the
real authorship of Shakspeare. It hasn’t
even a definite connection with King
Charles’s head which a Dickens character
found as hard to keep out of his corres-
pondence as his descendants find the fiscal
issue to-day. The matter is one of rectify-
ing the balance of foreign trade to the
extent of £40,000,000 per annum more or
less, and rather more than less. A device
which appears obvious is to prohibit super-
fluous or non-essential imports to a suffi-
cient extent, and either to replace them
promptly with Australian products or to go
short till replacement is possible.
Years ago, when sugar was in a bad way,
whether the article was regarded as a raw
material or a manufactured product, pro-
hibition was tried. The result was satis-
factory, and gives good reason for further
experiment:—
Cost of Sugar Imports.
1918- . £1,052,124 | 1924-25.. £65,579
1919- 4,359,203 1925-26.. 9,425
1920- 6,560,373 | 1926-27.. 47,844
1921- 174,850 | 1927-28.. 457
1922- 87,317 | 1928-29.. 241
1923- 12,200 |
The result was achieved with little delay,
and it was a big result. Half a dozen more
operations of the sort would almost solve
Australia’s difficulties. It is regrettable
that, demand having exceeded supply, the
surplus has to be sold cheaply in the outside
market. But there was only one large
completely safeguarded industry, and it
was natural that there should be an ugly
rush to get into it. With more such indus-
tries the rush of employment would have
been more widely'distributed, likewise the
wages and the profits.
Professor Brigden thinks “the tariff em-
bargoes, absolute and partial, and the catas-
trophic surcharges on imports generally, are
an extraordinary, clumsy way of dealing
with a difficult situation.” His view is that
the Government’s desire to prevent us get-
ting further into debt is an “excellent objec-
tive,” but, it should be done more gradu-
ally, for “even a drunkard is best weaned
away from his liquor gradually.” This
thought is possibly based on ignorance of
the fact that the liquor has been stopped
without the drunkard’s consent. The
learned professor offers the old prescrip-
tion that “the exchange should be rationed.”
The difficulty is that there is very little
exchange to be rationed, and, without, some
reform such as the Scullidores are attempt-
ing, there will be none when the Common-
wealth has taken over all the gold held
by the joint-stock banks, and exported that
and its own available reserves to prevent
the public creditor abroad from announc-
ing that Australia has defaulted in payment
of its interest bill.
THESE ANZACS!
The programmes and platforms of social
and political reformers come and go, but
the Anzac ideal sticks like a religion.
The word has ceased to mean one who
fought on the Peninsula, and it is ceasing
to mean one who fought anywhere; it
begins to stand for an attitude towards Aus-
tralia. Throughout the war the Anzacs—
meaning the Diggers—saw young men who
were too. shrewd to fight doing well for
themselves at home. They saw profiteers
mahing money out of the war, and poli-
ticians adding to their personal dignity by
robbing the public of its liberties. They
fought on with a philosophic grin, and won
a priceless reputation for Australia in
every quarter that counts. They came
home to find many of the things they
had fought for in the melting-pot.
They saw the citizen army, in which
their generation had taken so much
pride and which had been the backbone of
the A.1.F., being reduced to a shadow, and
the R.A.N. threatened with the same fate.
They saw politicians pawning the country to
buy votes, and they suffered from ' the
results in lost trade, rising taxation and
unemployment. Still they fought grimly on
as graziers and farmers, as business men
and as workers—and they were joined
by men. of their own type who had
been children during the war. They form,
these two, Australia’s aristocracy, and they
explain Anzac Day.
There is a significant resemblance be-
tween the view most of them take of our
present political and industrial problems
and the view they, or men like them, took
of the Empire’s problems 15 years ago!
A characteristic of the Digger was his
scorn of blather, high-sounding theories and
theatricalism. He shrank from emotional
display, and rarely used the tattered
phrases about “fighting for democracy,” and
so on. The thing that moved him was
Australia’s danger. His reasoning was that
when a dangerous criminal has broken into
your house you don’t, while trying to kick
him . out, explain that you are doing it in
the interests of the higher ethics: you j ust
deal with him, make the house as safe as
possible afterwards, and get on with the job.
To-day Australia is facing an enemy more
dangerous to its national existence than the
German Army was during most of the World
War. Every State has skilled, well-paid
Propagandists of disorder whose objective is
to destroy industry, snatch the means of
pioduction and exchange from the ruins,
and turn the Commonwealth into a Soviet
paiadise on the proceeds. If it were
not for the hard-headed, clear-eyed,
slightly derisive but indomitable mental
quality which we know as the Anzac
spirit, the crazy scheme might have a
chance of success. As it is the Reds
have small hope of bringing revolution to
this country, though they may afflict it
with many other disasters. That is why
Anzac Day survives as our only national
celebration.
The Anzacs, old and young, are symbols
of what all Australians would like, in their
hearts, to be; they represent the steel in
the Commonwealth edifice.
“F.X.D.”
H.M.A.S. Cerberus is a ship whose tonnage
is somewhere about 5000 acres, and she is
more frequently alluded to in the R.A.N.
under cover of the initial letters heading
this article—which means Flinders Naval
Depot—than by her own name. She lies at
Western Port, at the head of an unpictur-
esque and shallow bay known as Hann’s, or
Hahn s, Inlet, near the top end of the wide
harbor discovered by George Bass 138 years
ago. The ship is as unlike her veteran
namesake as Sydney Harbor Bridge is un-
like St. Mary’s Cathedral—save for the fact
that she is commanded by a captain, ruled
by a commander, and worked by numerous
lieutenant-commanders and lieutenants,
with their specialist breeds of the red, the
purple, the orange, the white and the blue
sleeve-rings. And without having anything
of the likeness of a ship, she is one of the
most shipshape units of the Royal Austra-
lian Navy. There is no other vessel in the
service with such neat, pretty and delightful
gardens as ornament the Ward-room Mess,
the Warrant Officers’ Mess and the School
of Gunnery. Even the Admiral, on his own
flagship, does not grow such beautiful roses
as they cultivate at “F.N.D.”
The mere landlubber, having raised the
hull of the Cerberus above the horizon from
Crib Point railway station, might be for-
given for taking her for a big barracks;
but he would be wrong. “F.N.D.” is a ship,
and nothing but a ship, in spite of the
ranges of buildings that surround the
immense grassed parade-ground (or deck)
in the middle of the establishment. If you
are a guest there, you are given a "cabin,”
and not a bedroom, to sleep in, and when
you leave you “go ashore.” I did not see
any lifebuoys with Holmes lights attached
hanging up anywhere, but my hours were
regulated by the ship’s bells, and I fre-
quently attended at “Divisions” and the
other parades and functions incidental to
life aboard a man-o’-war. After a little
time on board her you almost expect to
feel her heaving and rolling at her moorings
whenever a gale howls up from Bass Strait
—which is pretty often.
The Flinders Naval Depot, where, since
the paying off of the training-ship for boys,
H.M.A.S. Tingira, all naval ratings receive
their initial training in seamanship,
gunnery, torpedo-work, engineering, signal-
ling and the clerical branch of the service,
is the lineal descendant of the old training
depot at Williamstown. Under Admiral
Henderson’s scheme for the development
of the naval forces, there w r ere to have been
two establishments of this description—one
at Sydney and one at Western Port. The
former was to have contained the Gunnery,
Signalling, Wireless, Telegraphy and
Cookery Schools; the latter was to have
been the Naval Depot and Torpedo School.
As the R.A.N. has developed in fact,
Western Port has become, as it were, the
Naval University of the Commonwealth,
where everything is taught by theory and
practice that may fit the New Entry for
his career afloat, as well as to improve the
knowledge of older hands who come there
for advanced courses.
For some years the depot at Williams-
town continued the same service for the
R.A.N. that it had discharged for the old
Victorian navy of pre-Federation days, but
on the completion of the buildings at
Western Port- the establishment was moved
to its present situation, and was officially
opened in September, 1920. There are
altogether four blocks of barrack buildings
in occupation, which are capable of accoi -
modating nearly 2000 men, though a
present, owing to recent retrencnmen s,
there are less than 1000 in the snip s
company.”
It is not easy in a small space to present
a satisfactory picture of “F.N.D-, but a
text might be taken from the little book
issued to New Entrants. In the thud
paragraph the embryo seaman —who pos-
sibly may never have seen the sea be tore
he came here—is told that “in a fighting
service like the Navy a strict discipline is
of the first importance. One man at a
critical moment, questioning an order, the
object or importance of which he does not
understand, may easily bring disaster to
the fighting machine of which he forms a
part.” So the lad from the city, or the
ranges, or the plains is launched upon a
career in which he may become a gunner
of parts, an expert with the Whitehead
torpedo, a wireless telegraphist who knows
his job, an expert clerk or a more than
ordinary seaman—but above all else he is
taught the meaning of the paragraph
quoted above. He learns that no excuses
count in the Navy, that there is no back
door by which responsibility may be
evaded, and that team-work is demanded
of him first, last and always. He has to
realise that he serves high gods who have
no patience with incompetents, fools or
wasters, and that he must give to his
service the very best that is in him. It
will be years before he realises that this
was the main thing he was taught in his
first weeks at Western Port, before ever he
trod the deck of a ship—but he will realise
it one day, and remember what he owes
to “F.N.D.”
The Gunnery Officer took me through his
school and fascinated me with a gun
mounted on a platform that rolls errati-
cally for the edification of young gunlayers;
the Lieutenant-Commander (T) showed me
the guts of a torpedo, and explained how
his classes became Whitehead anatomists;
the Paymaster took me over his stores, and
let me look for a while at the making of
cooks; the Surgeon-Commander conducted
me through a hospital in which it would
be a pleasure to be ill; the Engineer-
Commander bewildered me with machinery;
the officer who has to do with New
Entrants made me wish I was young; and
I heard the Chaplain preach. It was cer-
tainly a bit of a mixture for one dull dog
to take away with him; but I got this
much out of it all. Of all establishments
“F.N.D.” is almost the most vital to the
existence of the R.A.N., and H.M.A.S.
Cerberus is well navigated and commanded.
Which, after all, is the principal concern.
J.H.M. ABBOTT.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
ė
The Spirit of Anzac.
ě
e
ATAI,ANTA.


1914—1930.
IN CIVVIES: “The bloke over there is telling ’em there’s no need for the working
man to worry—this talk of depression and economic danger is a
capitalistic conspiracy."
IN KHAKI: “Yes, he told US much the same thing 15 years ago. I wonder what
enemy he’s working for this time.”
more who • are getting something and earn-
ing nothing. We must retrace our steps and
realise one thing above all others: that a
community can have only what it produces.
It may get more for a few years, just as
we have been doing, but it has to pay by
accepting less presently—just as we must
now do. And if a community can have
only what it produces, obviously nothing is
more important to that community than
that it shall have as many producers and
as few parasites as possible. Every day a
man is idle there is a fraction less for
every other person in the community unless
through his idleness production—not wages
—can be presently increased.
Labor in particular has not concerned
itself lately about production: all it has
been concerned about has been the division
of the product. This is important, but
the other is vastly more important Let
Labor set itself to the task of reducing the
parasites—including the striker, who during
his period of idleness is as much a parasite
as any other unemployed person —and it
will not have to face any reduction of
wages.
Is All the World in the Same Boat?
“There is nothing wrong with us in par-
ticular,” some of Mr. Lang’s followers are
telling us—“this depression is world-wide.”
Therefore, they argue, since we have not
committed any special sin, nothing is called
for in the way of special expiation.
It is quite true there is world-wide depres-
sion. Britain, Germany, the United States,
South America and Japan all report excep-
tionally numerous unemployed. It is true,
too, that Australia is as badly hit as most.
Its wool is worth a third less than it was a
few years ago, its wheat has to be sold
at a price that does not show the basic
wage to thousands of producers, its metals
have slumped from 30 to 60 per cent, below
post-war levels. On top of these falls in
market prices most of the continent has
suffered from an unprecedented drought:
over nearly one-sixth of the continent,
comprising the Far North of South Aus.
and the Far West of N. S. Wales, this
drought has lasted five years. Even assum-
ing, then, that nothing but general depres-
sion is the matter with us, our share of it
would be more than the average.
But if all the world had mumps some
poor devil would have a broken leg as
well, and it is a sad but solemn truth
that the mere fact that a man has a broken
leg does not save him from being run
down by a motor-truck if he gets in its
way. Indeed, one trouble is so liable to
breed another that long ago some wise
man declared that the wretched things
never come singly. As an experienced
house-agent, Mr. Lang has probably noticed
this himself. Give a man a good job a.nd
Mr. Lang on behalf of the landlord has
probably not worried very much about the
rent. Let a man lose his job and Mr. Lang
on behalf of the landlord has probably
begun to worry a good deal.
If wool had kept its old price the Langs
of London would probably not have
worried about Australia’s debts, either.
Occasionally they might have said that this
country was making the pace a bit hot,
but that a young country that was grow-
ing seventy millions’ worth of wool a year
was probably entitled to hit things up. It
was when prices began to slump that the
Langs of London became worried. And
becoming worried they started to make
inquiries—just as Mr. Lang of Auburn
might then make inquiries about his out-
of-work client’s savings-bank account and
other resources. And then they found that
year by year, for many years past, Australia
had been importing about 40 millions more
than it had been exporting, after deducting
from its exports the interest payable on
its debts—in other words, had been running
up debts to the tradesmen that mu'clp in
excess of its earnings.
Mr. Lang the politician may say that no-
thing need be done in a case of this kind—
all that’s the matter is world-wide depres-
sion. But Mr. Lang, the house-agent of
Auburn, would know that the man who
was running into debt in that fashion was
booked for disaster whether there was
world-wide depression or not, and that now,
having two lots of trouble to get out of
instead of only one, there was a call, not
to do nothing, but to do a whole lot.
—4
Another Dud Commission.
If there is one form of extravagance which
in these distressful times should be forth-
with cut out it is horseracing on days
other than Saturdays and public holidays.
If there is one form of parasitism which
should be ruthlessly banned it is the un-
registered racing business. Yet a royal com-
mission, headed by a Judge of the Queens-
land Supreme Court, has reported, in effect,
that Brisbane, with a little more than
one-fourth the population of Sydney,
requires 110 race meetings a year, trotting
included, and that 42 of these should be
unregistered meetings, to be held on
Wednesdays and Thursdays. It even
recommends the State Government, which
is just on the point of bringing in special
taxation for unemployed-relief purposes, to
resume a course (Doomben) now idle, and
sell or lease it to a newly-formed club—
which presumably would get dates addi-
tional to the 110 p.a.
Certainly the Commission suggests that
“proprietary registered racing” should be
prohibited, but it qualifies this remarkably.
It finds that the Kedron Park Amateur
Club “is not a bona fide club,” yet it does
not specifically recommend that Kedron
Park should be placed on the prohibited
list. Instead, it proposes the appointment
of a board (one more board!) with power
to register “existing clubs a.nd proprietaries.”
The Commission also “severely criticises”
the Brisbane Amateur Turf Club, which
contracted to pay Messrs. Wren and
Nathan £450,000, on the interminable
instalment plan, for the Albion Park course,
and has done some highly suspicious jug-
gling as regards finance and members; but
it gives the club the benefit of the doubt.
Surely these are cases in which exemption
from the anti-betting laws, without which
the two courses would be worth no more
than about what they would fetch as
partly-improved suburban land, should be
withdrawn. Surely the Brisbane community
should not be required to furnish tribute
to exploiters of the betting folly for all
time.
This royal commission has been pursuing
its investigations for many months, and its
report is not worth the paper it is printed
on. Can any good come out of royal com-
missions?
The See-saw.
The Nationalist Bruce was rejected for the
Laborite Scullin; the Laborite Lang was
rejected for the Nationalist Bavin; the
Nationalist Butler was rejected for the
Laborite Hill; the Laborite Collier was
rejected for the Nationalist Mitchell—and
so all round the clock. The politician pro-
mises the Millennium, fails to produce it
and is kicked out. His successor, who in
his turn has dangled promises which have
made him the successor, fails and is kicked
out. So the public follows the bunch of
carrots, and never reaches them, no matter
what party is behind them. “Man never
is, but always to be, blest.”
The fact of the matter is we expect too
much from politics. We expect Parlia-
ments and Governments to give us happi-
ness, and they can no more do that than
they can give us the moon. Certainly
they can remove things that promote un-
happiness and replace them with things
that promote happiness; but it still remains
with ourselves whether we are any the
happier for the change. And the change
so rarely brings happiness that when a
Government remains in office over more
than one general election we can look for
gerrymandered electorates and be almost
certain of finding them.
Still this “divine discontent” is not with-
out its advantages. It is better to go
forward after the bunch of carrots that you
never reach than never to go forward at
all. The Bulletin offers the thought for
the comfort and consolation of both lately
defeated parties, Labor in Westralia and
Nationalist in South Australia. And for
the chastening, too, of the victors: their
win is due not to any merit of their own,
but wholly to the fact that the time has
arrived to give the other fellow a chance,
and they happen to be the other fellow at
the moment.
Our First Sea-fight.
The cruiser Sydney met the German
Emden off Cocos Island on Nov. 9,
1914, and destroyed her in Australia’s
first sea-fight. This article is written
from the notes of two eye-witnesses.
The Emden had been expected, and the
staff took turns on the office roof as look-
outs. Quickly investigating the report that
a strange vessel had been seen, and spotting
at once that her fourth funnel was palpably
made of canvas, the superintendent in-
structed G. H. K. La Nauze, the Austra-
lian wireless operator, to send out a general
call for assistance, a summons which, un-
known to the island, was promptly picked
up by the Sydney, convoying the Austra-
lian Expeditionary Force. Service messages
were then sent to London, Singapore, Perth
and Adelaide.
The Emden came up at great speed to
within a couple of miles of the quarters,
wheeled and disclosed an armored launch
and two heavily-manned cutters under her
counter. They were immediately slipped
and sped straight for the jetty. So quick
were their movements that the tail of the
last message for assistance was just dis-
appearing through the transmitters when
the landing party under Von Muecke
entered the office. The apparition of an
armed guard obliged La Nauze to suspend
his operations, and shortly afterwards the
wireless mast was soaring heavenward. The
Germans systematically destroyed every-
thing that looked like part of the communi-
cations system; and the launch assiduously
searched for the cables. It eventually
dredged up Perth, as well as several short
lengths which had been laid a few hundred
yards out to sea as traps for the ignorant.
The ruse worked splendidly, and the cable
staff had the satisfaction of watching the
enemy laboriously chopping these tough
decoys into many pieces while the African
and Singapore cables remained unmolested.
It was the time the landing party wasted
over these dummy cables which prevented
it rejoining the Emden when the Sydney
put in its appearance, and the absence of
the landing party is said to have been a
severe handicap to the Emden.
When the Emden sounded the recall
Lieut, von Muecke, the commander of the
landing party, shook hands all round and
apologised for being a nuisance.
The staff were sitting down to a much-
needed breakfast when a report came in
that a large vessel was approaching from
the eastward, and that the Emden had
raised her anchor and was starting out to
sea. Then ensued one of the most remark-
able incidents in the history of naval war-
fare. Twenty-nine Britons, 13 of them Aus-
tralians or Maorilanders, squatted on the
roof of the quarters, like the audience in
a theatre, and watched the progress of Aus-
tralia’s first naval battle, while the German
landing party floated about in the pit, so
to speak, and looked on at the destruction
of their ship. Later the Germans rejoined
the Britishers.
The battle started at a range of 3700
yards, and within a mile of the coral bar-
rier of Cocos. An Australian would politely
hand his binoculars to a German to enable
him to get a better view of the proceedings,
and the compliment would be returned.
From the spectators’ point of view the
Sydney was getting the worst of it. She
was invisible under a pall of smoke into
which the Emden’s shells lobbed continu-
ously. The Emden was answering broad-
side for broadside, making a splendid pic-
ture in her light grey paint, standing out
smoke-free and clear-cut against the blue
background of the ocean; spitting viciously
like a wild cat as shells fell all round
her. There appeared to be much darned
bad shooting on our part, as shot after shot
went over or beyond or fell astern of the
Emden. We learnt afterwards that the first
shells of the Emden had had the luck to
carry away both the Sydney’s control
stations.
The final act of the drama was performed
out of our sight, the result not being known
until the following day, when the Sydney
returned and sent- two armed cutters ashore
with a white flag, not knowing whether the
German landing party were still in posses-
sion of the island or otherwise. Von
Muecke, however, had purloined the local
schooner Ayesha and departed on the pre-
vious evening, to add a not-unworthy post-
script to the Emden’s saga.


Thousands are
changing
—changing
to Chesterfield
because
“IZlow some w
mij way
■MI
mm
a
wmm
V
H
mm
■ ■
■
Hi
Chesterfield
jatiskj
put airing around
that word and /
don’t forget it •
POLITICAL
POINTS
The partial prohibition of imports can do
nothing but good to Australia and must
make a great deal of unavoidable annoyance
in Britain. Yet a section of Federal poli-
ticians denounces it much more vigorously
than the average British politician who has
held forth on the subject. No British
politician has a chance of getting Scullin’s
billet by denunciation, and that may make
all the difference.
The average of the British wholesale
prices of 40-odd commodities in commonest
use was 24 p.c. less at the beginning of this
year than it was in 1924; and as there has
been a steady fall since the beginning of
the year it is pretty certain that the present
level is more than 25 p.c. below that of
1924. This is our trouble: it is in a market
25 p.c. cheaper than our own that we have
to sell enough goods to finance our imports
and provide interest on our public debt.
How it can be done without reducing our
own costs nobody tells us, because nobody
knows.
The Communists of Sydney Trades and
Labor Council, who dominated the A.L.P.
“Master,forgive.”
Congress, have
humbly apolo-
gised to the Red
Internationale of
Trade Unions
and promised
not to offend
again. They
were rebuked by
t li e arrogant
Moscow joint
for having sent
delegates to
Bruce’s Indus-
- trial Peace Con-
■ference and
. coquetted with
arbitration; they
own that this
was “a glaring
infringement of
the class-
struggle policy
of the R.1.L.U.”
and plead that
they will obey orders “as a loyal affiliated
body” in future, as earnest of which they
are dispatching a worm to Moscow to receive
instructions in person. And some of these
crawlers claim to be Australians!
The British presented Haig with £lOO,OOO
when he returned from the war and virtu-
ally retired from the army, and voted
£30,000 apiece to lesser warriors like Horne
and Byng. Chauvel, as a reward for his 44
years’ service as an Australian soldier, is
to have the use of a horse from the remount
depbt while he remains in Melbourne, “pro-
vided, of course, that horses are available
and that no additional expenses are involved.”
Presumably if the conqueror of Damascus
wants to go out riding for a day the
Scullidores will insist on his bringing a
ration of chaff.
Sundry Vic. parsons have threatened
Hogan that if he legalises the tote they will
boycott hospital charities which will profit
by the revenue derived from it. The notion
seems to be that the ecclesiastical three-
pences will lose caste if they rub shoulders
with the bobs of punters. However, even
bookmakers contribute to street collections,
so the churchmen’s argument is illogical, as
well as lacking in Christian tolerance.
Tasmania’s revenue for the first nine
months of 1929-30 shows a decrease of
nearly £lOO,OOO, compared with the corres-
ponding period of 1928-29. The unemployed
trouble moderated during the hop and apple
harvesting, and watersiders have been rush-
ing a 21-million-bushel apple crop into the
maws of overseas steamers (one hooker got
away with about 250,000 boxes of apples),
but Small Sister will be unable to make
ends meet without Commonwealth assistance.
It looks to Theodore to scrape half a mil-
lion out of his cash-box.
A F'reetrade argument is to the effect that
the strenuous new tariff is quite unneces-
sary because “the banks arc fully capable
of dealing with the exchange problem.” To
the Freetrade theorist the exchange problem
is the beginning and end of the difficulty.
Unfortunately the banks aren’t capable of
dealing with the unemployed problem, nor
with the hunger problem, nor with the empty
Treasury problem.
Australia imported machinery, metals
and metal manufactures to the value of
£24,643,100 in the seven months to the end
of January (or over £30,000,000 worth
including motors), and with all that work
going to outsiders there wasn’t much left.
The closure of the Iron and Steel Co. s
works at Wollongong, which used to employ
1500 workers, is one result. And an obvious
reason why the Commonwealth is in trouble
abroad is that it should have had at least
half that £30,000,000 to meet national lia-
bilities with.
“To provide work for the unemployed”
the Hogans have asked the Vic. Parliament
to pass a special Income Tax Bill, designed
to rake in £BOO,OOO. The 155,000 who already
pay tax or have paid it on their 1928-29
earnings are treated just like the other
445,000 who, it is estimated, will be tapped
(to some slight extent) for the first time.
The rate is a graduated one, rising by
tenths of a pound from 1 per cent, on taxable
incomes between £lOl and £lOOO to 2 per
cent, on £l9Ol and over, with some small
concessions to married taxpayers. If the •
bill gets through the Assembly, which is
doubtful, it will be killed in the Uppish
House; but it enabled Hogan to strike an
attitude at the A.L.P. conference.
Cold Tea required 60 p.c. of the effective
votes polled to carry no-license in Vic. It
got only 43.14 p.c.—163,769 short of the
number needed. While waiting for the next
poll in 1938 the Prohibition League will agi-
tate for Good Friday, Christmas Day and
Saturday-afternoon closing of bars and ban-
ning of Sunday trading.
Those who pin their faith to the resump-
tion of oversea loans on 'a big scale have
nothing to thank British Prime Minister
MacDonald for. He has finished his financial
year with a deficit of over 14 millions,
through income going down and expenses
going up; so taxes are to rise again, and
that doesn’t make for enterprise. Britain,
Germany and some other States are
reckoned to have much less gold in store
than they had a year ago, while Franco
is credited with 78 millions more, and
Uncle Hoover in New York with 30 millions
more. The Frank these days has a great
craving for yellow metal; he is said to have
£336,000,000 in banks and treasuries. Uncle
Hoover has £800,000,000.
A forecast of the N.S.W. railway position
as at next June has been issued —we are to
have cold weather, with rain and strong
winds blowing in all directions. The esti-
mate is for a deficit of £2,884,147, but it
appears as £2,084,147 because £BOO,OOO is
payable out of general revenue as a loss on
“developmental” lines. The reason why the
position is worse than it was a year ago is
partly that earnings are expected to decrease
by over a million. Another is that working
exes, have increased by £50,249, and interest
on loans, or cumulative pref. div. to share-
holders, by £269,920. The first two troubles
are being dealt with, but the cumulative
preference shareholders are an annoying
crowd with power to increase their div.
periodically (on the frequent loan-renewal
day), and they vote themselves the increase
whether there is money to pay with or not.
A cable says the announcement by the Sec-
retary for War that there are only 60,000
British troops in India has caused appre-
hension. Why? The force includes all
arms, and is probably the most efficient sec-
tion of the most efficient army in existence.
There is an auxiliary force of about 35,000
raised from Europeans and Anglo-Indian
British subjects in India, the native army
numbers 240,000 regulars, and the native
States can put about 45,000 troops in the
field, mostly up to Indian regular standard.
So there doesn’t seem any reason to sup-
pose the British troops in India are not
equal to any internal emergency.
Salaries paid to Vic. Ministers and mem-
bers are modest compared with those drawn
by politicians in the Ma State. Premier
Hogan gets £1551, and his seven stipendiary
colleagues £1207 each. Four Honorary Min-
isters and the Whip lift £2OO each, but the
£lOOO comes out of the £lO,OOO appropriated
to Cabinet.eers. Speacock receives £l2OO, and
Brownbill, Chairman of Committees, £710;
like the Cabinet Ministers, they are not
paid as members. The other 57 Assembly-
men (including two Honorary Ministers)
are allotted £5OO a year each. F'our of the
57 get pickings (£240 a year each) as mem-
bers of the Railway Committee, and seven
£5O a year each as members of the Com-
mittee of Public Accounts. With four excep-
tions, the Upper House men receive £2OO a
year each; the exceptions are two Ministers,
President Clarke (£750) and Edgar, C.-of-C.
(£400).
It is a poor advertisement for this land
of great resources to read that Australians
are practically penniless in London because,
though they have plenty of wealth here, the
exchange situation is so rotten that it is
impossible to get it there. This is wholly
due to the fact that Australia has for years
bought so much abroad and worked so little
at making things for sale abroad or for
use at home that the unfavorable balance of
trade has become a nightmare. The stranded
traveller in London isn’t one-millionth part
so tragic as the stranded worker and his
family in Australia, but he is a valuable
lesson to others and to ■ himself. The banks
can do great service in checking the outflow
of money after the problem has become acute.
But the preventive work of stopping the
inflow of goods, and thus making permanent
employment, rests with the Federal Parlia-
ment ; and the Scullidore Ministry has real-
ised this.
Increments of 16 Vic. Public Service officers
receiving £598 p.a. or more have been
stopped by the Hogans, and more will be
affected this financial year. Recommen-
dations of the Public Service Commissioner
for the reclassification of positions have
also been held up. The service will consider
itself lucky if nothing worse happens.
The S. Aus. Labor party contains some
bad winners. At the declaration of the poll
in East Torrens one of the successful can-
didates loftily rejected Butler’s offer of co-
operation, and the crowd hooted the defeated
.Coneybeer, who was in the S. Aus. Parlia-
“Heredueed the income taw.”
ment before most of the
hooters were born. By
contrast, Collier, of West-
ralia, took his defeat in an
excellent spirit, maintain-
ing the reputation of his
Government for good
temper to the last. Col-
lier is awarded a wreath of
laurels and saluted as the
only Labor Premier who
has ever reduced the in-
come tax. The Taxpay-
ers’ Associa-
tion feels like
erecting a
statue in his
honor, or hav-
ing statuettes
of him made
and sent to
Scullin, Theo-
d o r e, Hill,
Lang, Ogilvie and Forgan Smith.
It is proposed to grant a second mora-
torium to the distressed wheat-farmers of the
Victorian north-west. This means that the
storekeeper and the farmer’s other creditors
must wait for their money. But in the case
of a proper moratorium the wholesaler would
wait for the storekeeper’s money, and the
manufacturer (here and abroad) would wait,
and at long last the Public Debt might enter
into the spirit of the game and wait with the
rest. When once a settler gets his certificate
under the Moratorium law, a board is to
supervise his comings in and his goings out,
his standings up and his lyings down, and it
may tell him how to manage his farm. It is
believed that there are enough spare public
servants to run the show, provided the
show isn’t lost on the way, and that new
appointments will be unnecessary. The chief
thing for them to see to is more rain.
The proposed Federal Reserve Bank is
to have an immediate capital of £2,000,000,
transferred from the Commonwealth Bank.
It will also hold a large sum in trust or on
deposit from the other banks, all of which,
savings banks excepted, are to lodge, with
it a sum equal to 10 per cent, of their, liabili-
ties on demand and 5 per cent, of their other
liabilities. The F.R.B. is not to lend on
land nor on any interest in land, nor to
engage in trade, hold an interest in any com-
mercial or industrial undertaking, acquire
shares in banks, or own municipal securities
except those of capital cities, and as , regards
these it must avoid short-dated or temporary
securities. In effect, a big bag of money is
to be put out of danger so far as legislation
can do this, and to remain there until legis-
lation is altered.
While propounding his scheme for the
relief of unemployment the N.S.W. Pre-
mier diverged from his track to say that
what Australia urgently requires is to
increase its exports by £30,000,000 or so
per annum. It might be well to get down to
Bavin’s individual case. He could reduce
imports by dispensing with a lot of foreign
non-essentials, and it would be no tjjore
painful to do this compulsorily than to do
“Vouldn't gif a henry a
ton for dem!”
it voluntarily. Besides, compulsion would
make less patriotic people line up and
imitate him and stand their share of the
trouble. But if it is a matter of increasing
exports, what export does, he propose to
increase by way of doing liis bit? It is no
use trying to ship legal opinions abroad,
there being no market for them.
“Viau” (N.G.) : My stores and general
goods have just been unloaded. Cement from
Japan, matches from China, hose from
France, nails from Germany, whisky from
Scotland, wine from Spain, tinned salmon
from Canada, sardines from Norway, rice
from Singapore ; soup, fruit, asparagus and
prunes from the U.S.A.; tinned milk from
America, Denmark and Switzerland; cheese
from Switzerland; butter and meat from
Maoriland; coffee, jam and cigarettes from
England; vegetables from France. I hear
my dusky adjutant, educated by an Austra-
lian missionary, tell the cook: “This place
Sinney [Australia] he no got sometink belong
come.” It shows that .Australian costs of
productibn are all too high.
GALLIPOLL.
[FOB THE BULLETLN.]
The cliffs looked down upon the main
Where god-born heroes sailed of yore.
What ghosts awoke when once again
( Those headlands rang to battle’s roar!
Steel death hissed angry from each hill,
But dauntless courage urged them on,
Heedless of ranks grown thin, until
The slopes were scaled, the crest was won,
And over all the murk of war
The glow of fadeless glory shone.
’Twas then was lit the torch that still
Through darker days would quenchless
glow;
That flashed upon St. Quentin’s hill,
And flamed at Villers-Bretonneux.
Till even mothers who would weep
Their lost _ ones till their latest breath
A treasure might securely keep
In the great glory of their death.
Holding the crown they won within
The memory that lingereth !
These are the memories that stay
Beyond the wanton wars that tread
Heroic manhood into clay,
The tears for the untimely dead.
Over a race the glory spreads
Of patriot courage high and free,
Of heroes with their high-held heads
Daring all deaths for victory.
And every heart with pride must leap
To hear that name —Gallipoli!
N.S.W.
HABOLD MERCER.
HAVING IT BOTH WAYS.
[FOR THE BULLETLN.]
“The Labov victory in the South Australian elec-
tions showed that the people had faith in Labor
government. The Federal Government realised that
its tariff action might have a great effect on the
elections, but the result showed that its confidence
in its policy had been fully justified.”- — Mr. Scullin
on April 7.
“He regretted the defeat of the Labor Government
in West Australia, but refused to admit that there
was any truth in the suggestion that it was a reflex
action against the Commonwealth Government.
Federal actions could not be issues in State
elections.” — Mr. Scullin on April U.
I quite agree that straws may be
Most useful things for showing
Even a dense intelligence
Which way the wind is blowing.
Yet every rule exceptions lias
And what to-day may strike you as
The natural construction
Upon the force that shapes their course
May well be shown, when next they’re blown,
A quite unsound deduction.
I tell you straight that when a State
Swings over hard to Labor,
It shows robust, implicit trust
In Me. But when its neighbor
Stages the other sort of swing.
’Twould be a most improper thing,
A palpable delusion,
An evidence of lack of com-
Mon sense to try and draw therefrom
The opposite conclusion.
I think, whene’er our chaps have swept
The polls, the Nats, annullin’,
The fact is proof their eyes were kept
On Canberra and Scullin.
But when the damning tally’s shown
A Labor party overthrown,
A Cabinet’s excision,
’Tis just as clear that something near—
Parochial rot, as like as not —•
Obscured the people’s vision.
Remember, in assessing acts,
You must allow for places;
And longitude may alter facts,
As circumstances cases.
When Fortune smiles upon our line
The credit’s very largely mine,
The veriest tyro well sees.
And should the battle ’gainst us go
Just as convincingly I’ll show
The blame is—someone else’s.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETU
and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS
COMPENSATION.
"She says her singing teacher charges her ten guineas a quarter.”
“Well, I don’t blame him."
“Samothrace” : Some Tommy N.C.O.’s may
have been narks, but the only one I had to
do with' was white all through. Our company
was camped on a hill overlooking Mudros
harbor. Evening came, but no rations, and
hunger sent Brad, my cobber, and I forag-
ing. Suddenly we sniffed fresh bread, and
following our noses came to a ba*rbed-wire
fence round a long row of field-ovens,
from which two Tommies were shovelling
loaves. We decided to nick some, and
found that, by lifting the bottom strand of
wire, one of ns could wriggle under and get
within reach of the rapidly growing pyramid
of bread which shielded us from observation,
I wriggled through and was soon back with
two loaves. But I wa*s greedy, and went
back for more. I was just wriggling through
again when a shovel smote, my pants, a
torch flashed, Brad fled in panic and a Tommy
sergeant strode forward. “One of them
Orstra«lians pinching our bread,” he remarked.
“It’s a fair cop, me lad. You comerlonger
me.” He led the way down the yard, reliev-
ing me of my loot, and I followed him, woe-
begone, hungry and miserable, with visions ot
court-martial and executions. Through a
ga*te, past a row of tents, out into the
open I followed the sergeant. There was
nothing to prevent my running off, as we
were outside the enclosure, but I was too
flustered to notice that. After going a short
distance, the sergeant turned to me and said,
“You’re very slow on the uptake, me lad.
I thought you’d be over the hill by this.
’Ere, take this and beat it,” and thrusting
the bread into my hands he made off. So
Brad and I feasted royally that night.
X x * *
“Co. Cr.”: Can any Digger beat this
entry for quickness into action from time
of enlistment? One of the 11th (W.A.)
Battalion reinstoushments joined my platoon
on Gallipoli the night before the battalion
took Beane’s Trench. After we had been
relieved it was very noticeable on the first rifle
inspection that Joe knew nothing about the
rudiments of rifle drill. Chipped about this,
he explained that he had had 10 days in
Blackboy Hill Camp and one day in Egypt
—ll days’ training in all. Joe took part
in the hop-over the following night, and to
iny certain knowledge accounted, for a Turk
with a remarkably quick piece of shooting.
He was a kangaroo hunter from the Mur-
chison in civil life.
=l= * * *
“P.X.” : The House of Commons agreed to
abolish the death penalty in the Army for
desertion and cowardice in the face of the
enemy; but tin* House of Lords, largely
swayed, it seems, by General Plumer, lias
refused to sanction the great change. This
was the one thing Haig really wanted to see
the Australian newspaper heads about when
they were taken to his H.Q. in France during
the war. The other men present might have
been politely non-committal when Haig
pleaded for the right to shoot Australians,
too, for these “offences” ; but Frank .Anstey,
now Federal Minister for What-is-it, hap-
pened to be there as representative of Aus-
tralian Labor papers, and Fra<nk couldn’t
afford to be politely non-committal even if
he had wanted to be—he had his constituency
to consider. So Anstey told Haig that he had
no hope of shifting Australia on that question
—declared tha*t no Government which sanc-
tioned the change would live for 24 hours
after Parliament had had an opportunity of
emptying it out. The Field-Marshal gave it
up as a bad job. But he obviously liked
Anstey, all the same; it was Anstey’s arm
he linked with his own when he set out to
show his visitors » fety things he thought
would interest them. And it w r as Dr. J. W.
Springthorpe, the Melbourne specialist in
mental diseases, serving then in France, who
was the first to congratulate Anstey on his
resistance. For in this matter the alienists
and the brass-hats seem at hopeless variance.
* * x *
“Rhubarb” : Some modern flappers take a
long view of things. Our office Betty had
kept us informed of all her entanglements,
and we knew that the latest Harold was well
off and drove his own ear. We were conse-
quently surprised to hear that all was over.
“A girl shouldn’t think of marrying a man
like that,” Betty explained. “Last time _we
were out he hit a lamp-post, and the time
before that it was an old man. I don’t
believe he can see properly, and lie’s not
wheeling any pi-arn. of mine! I don’t want
my kids tipped out to get concussion of the
brain!”
* * # Hs
“Taw-Key” : All this tariff talk reminds
me of an episode in the House of Reps, when
Protection was having a struggle for exist-
ence. Freetraders were arguing that if
the duty on a hat were increased by 2s. 6d.
the worker would have to pay 2s. 6d. more
for one. Sam Mauger, the hatter, knew
better than that. Telephoning his shop, he
ordered his manager to send up half a dozen
hats, and the debate was kept going till
they arrived. Sam then marched into the
chamber with hats to the right of him and
hats to the left of him and informed the
House that those on view were retailed
at less than the equivalent of the Customs
duty. The cadies were distributed among
the staff. But there were two unlucky ones,
The first called next day at Sam’s shop to
complain that his hat was two sizes too
small; the second to explain that it had been
his day off-
THE WAY OF THE GOOD GIRLS.
BERYI,: “What did your motor-friend say when you got out and left him last night?"
Gladys: “He just said I was another of the best girls that ever walked."
“The Drayman”: The old feud between the
B.M.A. doctors and Dr. Ratten, of Tas-
mania, is apparently not dead yet. Air-
pilot Grant, one of the victims of the naval
seaplane crash in the Derwent, who is said
to be making fair progress towards recovery
from a fractured spine in Hobart General
Hospital, was the innocent cause of the
latest outbreak of hostilities. The story goes
that the patient’s removal from the General
Hospital to the offieia<l care of the local
naval medical authorities was only frustrated
the other day by direct intervention from
Canberra. The naval medicoes (B.M.A.
valiants to a man) cla*imed the patient,
insisting that he could be moved to another
hospital without risk. Hospital superin-
tendent Ratten declared that if the man was
shifted he would probably die. A cable to
the Admiral brought a reply upholding the
authority of the naval doctors, and Dr.
Ratten was officially informed that the
removal would take place next day. _ The
naval ambulance turned up at the appointed
time, and the victorious naval -doctors pre-
sented their writ. But instead of handing
over the patient, the hospital authorities
showed the visitors a telegram from the
Defence Department ordering that the patient
should not be moved without Dr. Batten’s
consent. The ambulance and the discom-
fited medical brass hats retired in pretty
fair order, though the interested gaze of
half a hundred nurses and other attendants
and a couple of score of balcony patients
must have made the evacuation something of
an ordeal.
* * # *
“Penfield”: The struggle over an injured
naval rating in Hobart, Dr. Ratten, of the
local hospital, tugging one way and the
naval doctors hauling the other, recalls a
beautiful row that happened in a big country
town of N. S. Wales. The _ Government
medical officer and the doctor in charge of
the hospital loved one another almost as much
as Dr. Ratten loves the 8.M.A., and when
a man on whom it was at all feasible to
hold a post-mortem was on the point of
death, each doctor watched the other in
order to get in first cut. Things reached
a crisis when a drayman fell out of his
chariot or was pushed out —anyway, some-
thing happened in the street and the casualty
was taken to the hospital by order of the
police. That gave the Government medical
officer a status in the matter, and the hos-
pital doctor knew it. So he waited around
till the man died ; then he promptly got
to work, and, finding that the cause of death
was a fracture of the spine, considered how
he could beat his enemy, of whose early
arrival he had just got notice. Carving out
a section of the spine. with the fracture,
he neatly replaced it with a few inches of
wire, covered up the traces of his work as
well as he could, told the matron that his
adversary would get the surprise of his life
in a few minutes and retired to await results.
One of the results naturally was a row that
threatened to lift the hospital doctor clean
out of the town; but officially the' other
chap refused to say a word, and they were
almost civil to one another afterwards.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: Perth is having a vice-regal
wedding; the last thing of the sort, BO years
ago, produced a lively scrap between Govern-
ment House and the Town Hall. Governor
Jerry Smith’s daughter was about to be given
in marriage to Gerald Browne (son of Rolf
Boldrewood), and his Ex. complained to the
civic authorities that the approaches to his
residence were in a shocking state of dis-
repair and quite unfit for wedding guests to
be whirled over. Somebody counselled him
on the ’phone to get a few loads of gravel
laid down. Smith did so, and sent the bill
to the City Council. That concern emphati-
cally refused to pay, to the huge disgust
Gf the bride’s dad and the unconcealed delight
of the public, -which was beginning to tire
of Smith’s eccentricities. A few months
before this Sir Jerry had been returning
from a trip over the goldfields when some-
thing went wrong with the engine of the
train at Southern Cross. His Ex., who
rather prided himself on his knowledge of
mechanics, went poking around the loco-
motive demanding to be told what had caused
the mischief. A short-tempered engine-
driver, quite unaware of the identity of his
questioner, told, him to go to Hell, and the
King’s representative retreated considerably
ruffled. “His Excellency did the next best
thing,” acidly commented a goldfields news-
paper next morning ; “he went to Perth.”
■** * *
“C.Q.”: Probably very few people who
have inspected the Discovery have noticed
the brass nails hammered into the deck on
the port side aft. They are relics of the
old days when ropes for rigging were
measured before being sent aloft. Another
relic is the carpenter, an ex-Swede who has
been a naturalised Briton as long as he can
remember. Forty is considered old age on
the Discovery, and Chips was only taken on
in England after two younger carpenters
had fallen a prey to shore grog. He is 62
years old, but as tough as the anchor.
Nobody has ever known him to receive a
letter.
* * * *
“Meteren”: On Saturday morning there
was never any enthusiasm for work in our
office. Usually the boss departed with his
golf clubs after a glance through the mail,
and the rest of the staff gradually followed.
The last pair of male legs disappearing
through the doors was the signal for the
girls to transfer themselves into hockey togs.
One morning two of them were squatting in
the outer office awaiting a third when the
door opened and in strode the boss and his
missus. The unexpected pair made straight
for his sanctum, in which that languid typist
was changing garments. Then was heard
a shrill voice demanding to know whose
spare clothes were draped on Mr. Invoice’s
chair. Invoice, of course, hadn’t the foggiest
idea, and Mrs. Invoice refused to be com-
forted till the whole office had been searched.
Presently she spotted the strong-room. It
wasn’t locked and she dragged back the
massive door —to have bundled into her arms
a vision in sports bloomers and very little
topgear who had been propped up against
the inside of the door. On Monday Invoice
said he had had a devil of a week-end
arguing it out and demanded explanations.
The embarrassed one pleaded that when she
heard them coming she’d only time to hurl
herself into the strong-room, and had then
swooned off at the thought that the steel
door might be locked on her.
* * * *
“Arthur R.”: Prisoners in Australian
gaols keep in touch with the outside world
nowadays by means of ingenious wireless
sets. One I have examined was built into
a tin mug. The coil consisted of many pieces
of wire, both covered and bare, joined to-
gether, the bare wire being insulated by
narrow strips of newspaper. The detector
was a piece of radio-active mineral chipped
from some of the stones in the stockade,
while a telephone had been rifled to provide
the headphone. On connecting the crude
instrument to an aerial and earth good recep-
tion was obtained.
THE LANDING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The middy in the pinnace casts the tow,
And leaves us floundering with the clumsy
oars;
Above the cliffs we catch the dawn’s red
glow,
While from the beach a single rocket soars.
Sharp tongues of flame light up the frown-
ing hill;
Swift bullets pierce the planking of the
boat.
To rip and tear through yielding flesh —to
kill!
Red blood is gushing from the captain’s
throat.
The screaming shells burst loudly overhead,
Lashing the tranquil sea with burning
rain,
Filling the overcrowded boats with dead,
But foot by foot the hostile shore we gain,
To leap into the flood and wade to land,
With bayonets fixed and wild, exultant
cry,
Across the narrow, gleaming stretch of sand,
And up the hill to where the foemen lie.
We reach the summit, but the Turk has
fled;
Creeping from bush to bush he takes his
toll;
But pressing onwards ’neatli the whistling
lead,
Our eyes fixed steadfast on the distant
goal,
We cross a valley-—thick the wild thyme
grows—
And mount the ridge where' leaps the
battle flame,
To meet the onslaught of a thousand foes,
And hurl them back along the path they
came.
God! How we toil and sweat the livelong
day
To gain some cover from the crashing
shell;
Digging with frenzied fingers in the clay,
Clawing the earth beneath the glare of
Hell.
The sun goes down; pale moonbeams flood
the night;
The foe is beaten off, but still he comes
With fresh battalions to renew the fight,
With cries of “Allah” and with roll of
drums.
The Fleet sends greetings to the Caliph’s sons,
And loud the name of Allah they acclaim.
Machine-guns chatter the fierce talk of guns!
Ten thousand rifles speak with tongues of
flame. ...
Though trumpets sound the Charge from
vale and hill
The dawn wind finds him with his task
not done;
For e’en the doughty Turk has had his fill
Where Austral bayonets greet the rising
sun.
S.A.
WILLIAM JAMPS DIGGEB.


“Talbert” : Queensland Railway Depart-
ment is introducing Clapp-like slogans
exhorting the populace to eat more fruit.
The tower on Brisbane Central is disfigured
with placards bearing the legend “Ills he
escapes who eats more grapes.” Pity Com-
missioner Davidson doesn’t ask the Salvation
Army to suggest something striking, like
the words on a banner borne by two
strapping lassies—“ Turn or burn.”
* * * *
“Bildad”: According to a reverend gentle-
man who spoke at the opening of a hall in
a Sydney suburb, Australia is in such a
bad way that “three out of four people you
meet in the street are pagans.” If that is
so our native land has improved beyond the
average. A century and a half ago 100 per
cent, of the population was pagan, and,
though one didn’t meet pagans in the street
—there wasn’t a street in the whole con-
tinent —their conduct was no less reprehen-
sible. A very massive lexicon born in the
United States has it that a pagan or heathen
THE ADVANTAGES OF MATRIMONY.
Gladys: “Why ever did Maisie get married if she
doesn’t like her husband?”
MABEL: “Well, she thought it’d give her a better chance
to look round for someone.”
is anyone who is neither Christian, Jew nor
Mohammedan —in name, of course, for the
nominal Christian is plentiful to the point of
overcrowding, while the person who lives
according to the Sermon on the Mount is
painfully rare. On that classification there
are about 956 million pagans and 89.1
million non-pagans in the world, but owing
to the immigration laws the pagans don’t
haunt Australian streets much. A very
futile explanation is that pagans have no
faith in a blessed hereafter, while non-pagans
have, but the Jews apparently got along
with no hereafter at all till about the finish
of the Hebrew kingdom, when the news of
one was definitely broken to them by Daniel,
the prophet. It is a frequent assertion that
the Australian is an idolator who worships
HE DIDN’T WANT TO WAKE ’EM.
MOTHER: “What about your prayers, Tommy?”
TOMMY (after late night at the pictures) : “Oh, Mum, they’ll be all gone to bed up in Heaven
the horse, but an idol is generally regarded
as a fixed object, and the horse which is
worshipped in Australia moves very fast.
When he loses his velocity he ceases to be
an idol. Theology is a dashed difficult
problem.
* * * *
“N.K.”: No, half the world doesn’t know
the other half’s troubles. A new passenger
jumped <in and when half-way down the
aisle sprang round at the touch of a hand
upon his trouser-leg. A big man called out,
“Here’s a seat, Charley,” and moved his
bulk closer to the window. Charley was a
lightweight and squeezed down beside his
friend. “Cripes,” said the big man, “I
didn’t know you with your coat on. It
wasn’t till you leaped around as though you
was hit that I jerried you was the chap
that runs bread on my round.” “Struth,”
said the small man, “when yer touched me
I thought it was one of them blasted mongs.
They’ve got me that nervy I jump when the
wind blows me pants.” “Cruel, ain’t it!”
agreed the big man. “Know that Irish
terrier at 42? Last week he bit a chunk
out of a pound o’ butter I was carrying into
the kitchen, and what does his missus do?
Rings up the company and tells ’em I bin
thievin’ her grease!” The small man clicked
compassionately. “That yelpin’ mong in
Peaceful Flats is as bad. Yesterday he bit a
piece out of me pants. I tried to knock him
off with the basket, but he hung on down to
gate. Then that red-headed piece starts
shrieking the place down. Yellin’ I was
trying to steal her Ming, and she bet I’d
got aniseed on my pants. She rang up the
office, too, and said” —he laughed bitterly—
“l was nothing but a dog thief!” He got
up and brushed his trousers moodily. “Blime,”
he added, after thinking it well over, “them
crane blokes on the bridge got a easy life,
if only they knew it!”
* * * *
“H. Hardupp”: The high cost of dying
has been affected by arbitration awards, too.
In Sydney a gravedigger must be allowed
six hours to prepare anyone’s last resting-
place ; if shorter notice is given an extra
man has to be hired and paid 15s. 4d. In
urgent cases double time can be charged,
and if a Sunday funeral is demanded there
are special rates for “the mutes and the men
in black suits.” But these people have
their troubles also. “Twenty years ago,”
one of them confided to me, “you could get
a second-hand top ’at at any dealer’s shop
for a coupler bob. Nowadays, w’en so few
gents, wears toppers, we’ve gotter buy ’em
noo sometimes.”
* * * *
“Piecrust” : Guppy was doing 40 along a
straight stretch when an over-fed dog rushed
from a gate and tried to bite the front tyre.
Guppy pulled up and went back to the gate,
which bore a brass plate with the words
“Professor Biggies, Animal Trainer.” A
pompous individual with a large bald head
rose from the verandah and laid down the
book he was reading. “ ’Seuse me,” Guppy
murmured, “do you own a light-grey dog,
rather long in the legs?” “I do,” replied
the Professor majestically; “that dog has
been brought up on a patent of my own.”
“Sorry,” Guppy said; “the patent has
expired.”
* * *
“The Hippogryph”: There is buried
treasure nearer home than Cocos Island,
where Malcolm Campbell proposes a search.
An old Victorian, sits tight on a swag that
has been known, yet not known, to the police
for many a year. It is the proceeds of a
big Tobbery of about 20 years ago. The
old fellow did a stretch for the crime, but
the loot was not recovered. On his release
he retired from burglary; he also retired
from any other form of toil, and no one
doubts that his means of frugal sustenance
are drawn from the well-hid cache of ill-
gotten gains. The ancient registers repen-
tance for past errors by acting as regular
“shelf” to the police concerning crimes and
their probable perpetrators; no doubt he
has been consulted on a recent N. S. Wales
train robbery. But he does not budge an
inch concerning the source of his own
income.
* ❖
“7346” : Ginger was a dashed good soldier,
but as rough as bags—too rough to qualify
for promotion to bombardier, so they made
him the battery chaffcuttcr. His job—he
operated an ancient hand-cutter —was a
matter of sweat and curses. But one day,
while nosing round a Somme road, Ginger
souvenired a battered motor-cycle. The
engine had escaped Hun hate, and was soon
driving the chaff-mill. Ginger’s life was
easy for a while, and then came an order
requiring the return to base of all such sal-
vage. Ginger ignored the order, and his
0.C., ■who was loath to crime him, was in
a bit of a quandary. The brass-hat in
charge of the salvage collection said “Leave
him to me.” So he was conducted into the
presence of Ginger, whose cherished engine
was popping away like mad. Brass-hat
suavely congratulated Ginger on the ingenu-
ity of the arrangement, but said that orders
were orders, and the motor must be handed
in. Ginger told Brass-hat that sudden
death would be the least of many unpleasant
things that would happen to the blighter who
laid unholy hands on his beloved engine.
“Quite, Gunner, quite,” said Brass-hat. “1
see your point, but I fear for your personal
safety. You see, you might get your beard
caught in it some day.” A slowly-dawning
grin wiped the wrath from Ginger’s face.
“Blime, Sport,” he said, “so I might. O’
course you can ’ave the blanky thing,”
* * * *
“Mark IV.”: French naval ordnance de-
signers are reported to have evolved a gun
which can fire shells 95 miles. This sug-
gests that the Germans weren’t as success-
ful as they believed themselves in eonceal-
ing the secret of their biggest Berthas. The
exceptional range of these Krupp guns wasn’t
evolved by any erudite study of ballistics.
It was due to miscalculation in design. The
gun was to have had a range of 37 miles.
At its trial aerial observers reported they
had seen no sign of the shells. Next day
a complaint came from a German village 71
miles away that it was being bombarded,
and investigation showed that the latest
Bertha was the culprit. The idea of bom-
barding Paris was a natural sequel to such a
discovery, and three sister guns were built.
One blew up and the other three were
destroyed towards the end of the war to
preserve the secret of their construction. A
British unit recovered nearly all the parts
of one of them, and that’s all that has been
disclosed about one of the war’s big mys-
teries. Evidently it is no longer a mystery
to the French.
* * * *
“Dram”: Reference to a recent Scottish
legal finding (B. 9/4/’3O) recalls another
of two centuries ago, which still stands as
a model of legal acumen north of the Tweed.
A brew wife set a tub of “browst” outside
the door of her alehouse. A cow lapped it
up, a<nd the beast’s owner was sued. He
pleaded that the drink was in the nature of a
doch-an-dorris. By ancient Scottish custom,
the doch-an-dorris had to be supplied free
to any wayfarer, but it had to be drunk out-
side the door, and while standing. There was
proof that the cow had been standing.
Judgment for the cowman.
# s): * #
“P. Pawnticket” : A tale of tangled money-
making ambitions and impecuniosity has been
revealed in a dispute regarding a block of
seaside flats. Blob, a master builder, bought
the land on terms from Hyprice, and erected
the building; Swash, imagining that the boom
would last, got a seven-years’ lease from
Blob, and Quickcash took a two-years’
tenancy from Swash. Quickcash filled the
place with t.-p. furniture, and signed an
agreement for a yearly tenancy with Mrs.
Hash, fixing a rent that would give him
a profit both ways. Mrs. Hash let, or tried
to let, the furnished flats separately, and
one or two of the sub-tenants took in board-
ers. But some of the boarders defaulted,
so the sub-tenants couldn’t pay Mrs. Hash;
and that lady, having the additional trouble
of unlet flats, fell into arrears with Quick-
cash, who was therefore unable to settle with
the furniture people and Swash, the result
being that Swash failed to pay Blob, who,
his ideas all upset, did not keep up his instal-
ments to Hyprice. It was actually another
party, a municipal council howling for unpaid
rates, that pricked the bubble out of which
so many people anticipated a profit.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: It is comic to learn that the
suitability of the glorious Australian flower-
ing gum for street planting is to be decided
by the Vic. Treeplanting Association on the
basis that the trees have a disgusting habit
of varying in their shape and in the coloring
of their magnificent blossoms. It suggests
that the highest ideal of form held by the
civic improver is the lamp-post, and of color
a gent’s dress-front. As a matter of fact,
uniformity is still the criterion of most town-
planners and the straight line their maxim
of perfection. In my seaside suburb at the
moment the council is spending a huge slice
of the ratepayers’ money in straightening
the foreshore with a concrete revetment.
When it has finished beautifying Nature
half a dozen delightful little coves with
stony headlands and sheltered beaches will
have disappeared and the children will have
a nice flat rectilineal asphalt pavement to
play on.
ONE SUMMER DAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The oldest sea is smiling beneath a summer
sky,
The waterline is broken by Imbros, clear and
high.
Far-off the great, grey warships their end-
less vigil keep,
And waiting for their cargoes the Red Cross
liners sleep.
A heavy, drowsy silence is on the land and
sea;
The summer day has brought us a longed-for
peace, which we,
War-weary, make no effort to understand,
and then
A monitor comes searching for Beachy Bill
again.
And then, my angry cobber, I hear your loud
protest;
Your call for sudden justice on all who
break your rest;
Your long appeal to someone to swiftly waft
afar
All interfering blankards who’d spoil a
decent war.
You will have long forgotten that lazy after-
noon,
The blessed peace, the silence, that ended
all too soon.
And I alone remember the burning words
you spoke
When your, short, hard-earned slumber the
fruitless shelling broke!
The years are long and many since that
far summer day,
And you, my gallant cobber, who sleep so
far away,
By years no longer measure, and peace no
longer woo,
Since Beachy Bill that evening brought last-
ing peace to you.
Your resting-place, they tell us, is tended
carefully,
And soon it will be summer beside the oldest
sea,
But the long rest you’re taking on that far,
foreign shore
From interfering blankards is safe for ever-
more !
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


ADELAIDE’S
Most Modern Hotel
THE
HOTEL BOTANIC
NORTH TERRACE, CITY.
Delightfully Situated
Garden Frontage
Balcony Rooms
Ail Latest Appointments.
A SELECTION OF DIAMOND RINGS AT £2O
sm
.. ■
as
PERFECT IN QUALITY—GOOD SOUND VALUE.
The ue .. diam° n ds depends on the quality and beauty of the gem rather than on the price
pVf!. * Ol ~ \ h ! e S e ™s in Fairfax and Roberts’ Diamond Rings are specially selected for their
brilliancy and blue white colour. All rings are hand-fashioned from gold; gold and platinum or
all pure platinum.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.
"The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney
23-25 Hunter Street.
Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner a
la carte from 1/6. Inclusive tariff from 13/6
per day, or £4/4/- weekly. Special quotations for
sporting bodies, etc. Situated right opposite Spencer
Street Station; no taxi fares; railway porter carries
baggage across if necessary. Please write for
detailed tariff card. Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is
sufficient address.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
SSAM HORDERN, president of the RoyaL
Agricltural Society (Sydney).
The three new members of S.A. Ministry
—Hill, Jelley and Denny are experienced old
hands —have all been practical miners in
the past. Richards has lived in the copper
country about Moonta (S.A.) all his life.
Whitford started there, too, but has Ival-
goorlie experience. Harvey, born in New-
castle (N.S.W.), went west as a boy, and
was all through Kalgoorlie’s good times.
The youngest member of the scientific side
of the Discovery expedition was J- W. S.
Marr, who was one of the two English Boy
Scouts whom Shackleton took to the Antarc-
tic in the Quest. Shackleton died on that
voyage, but Marr went back to his home
town, Aberdeen, and qualified as a biologist.
He is now attached to the research com-
mittee of the Falkland Islands, where the
Discovery is registered. The most junior
member of the crew, and the only Australian
in it, is a brawny youth who exchanged the
enervating heat of tropical Bananaland for
the frozen blasts of Antarctica and didn’t
even catch a cold through it.
Theodore Fink, who at 75 has gone to
London and the Empire Press Conference, is
a solicitor by pro-
fession but a jour-
nalist by prefer-
ence. He would
have made a great
editor. His resem-
blance to J. F.
Archibald in man-
ner, voice and
habits is remark-
able. His Toorak
home, like the one
Archibald had at
Darling Point, is
full of Australian
paintings and
books; he has
Archibald’s dry wit,
love of anecdote
and half-derisive
interest in the
literary and artis-
tic stars encoun-
: tered by Austra-.
bans in the ’nine-
ties and earlier. It
is a queer fact that
he is interested
most, in the two
men who interested
Archibald most —
Phil Mayan d
Mark Twain. But,
unlike Archibald,
Fink is a physical
marvel —-a short,
burly man, full of
health and energy.
He is a non-
smoker, practically
a teetotaller, and
never plays cards,
bets or misses the
theatrical shows of
any city he visits.
JAS. JELLEY, Chief
Sec. of the new Labor
Government in S.
Aus., and leader of the
Leg. Council.
About 30 years ago a stern, reserved young
man with a heavy-tragedian air taught the
younger fry at South Melbourne College, the
poet J. B. O’Hara’s school. Later he kept
school at Beechworth and secured the Labor
nomination which made him M.H.R. for
Indi (Vic.). Displaced for a time, he pre-
sently climbed back to Parliament for Hume
(N.S.W.). Now, with his private secretary,
he is off to the Economic Conference to
represent Australia as the Minister for
Markets. Parker Moloney’s his name.
Among Westralians who make occasional
trips east for racing and similar diversions
none is better known socially than Ernest
Lee Steere. He comes of the W.A. branch
of an old Surrey landed family and was a
Murchison squatter, combining commercial
with pastoral activities during the roaring
days of the goldfields, until the ownership of
the famous racehorse Euryth'mic, often
acclaimed as a second Gai'bine, thrust a wider
fame upon him. An uncle was Speaker of the
Leg. Assembly for 13 years and was voted a
State funeral on his decease in 1903—he died
in harness.
Just-dead Tom Hughes, commercial lawyer,
good Catholic, Knight and M.L.C., was for
years the one connecting link between the
old proprietary of Sydney’s Australia Hotel
and the new; he was on the board under
both regimes. The building was financed
by the Anglo-Australian Investment (etc.)
Co., which presently went bung, but not
before it had mortgaged all it had, mostly
to an English co. Thus an English co. with
very churchy connections found itself in con-
trol of a pub at the other side of the world.
After blushing a deep pink it pushed the
management on to an Australian board of
three, Tom Hughes Deing one of them; and
when in a few years a dreadful rumor
reached it that Sydney was liable to go dry
at any moment, it didn’t know whether to
be glad or utterly miserable. It compromised
by accepting a providential offer presently
received from Australia; and so the control
took another voyage this way.
It has just been discovered by a delver
among military records in England that the
first airman to win a Victoria Cross was a
Maorilander, Lieut. W. B. Rhodes-Moorhouse,
of the R.A.F, His hyphenated name denotes
the linking of two of Fernland’s oldest
families. He had resided in England for
several years before the Great War and was
in a modest way one of the pioneers of
aviation. In April, 1915, he bombed the
railway junction at Courtrai, holding on
under heavy machine-gun fire and flying
low till he vras sure he had -wrecked the
railway track. He was riddled with bullets
but managed to return to his own aerodrome.
■He died next day and the Cross was his
posthumous reward.
Prof. Osborne, of Melbourne Uni., told an
audience the other day that when he was
held up on his recent travels at the Mexican
border, a document bearing the perfectly
illegible signature of S’William McPherson,
then Vic. Premier, alongside a big seal, was
the talisman that cleared a way for him.
Which recalls that the late Sam Winter,
general manager of Melb. “ ’Erald,” was
admitted to the most sacred and exclusive
places in Egypt on the strength of a paper
bearing the signature and seal of the Mayor
of Richmond (Vic.), after a passport signed
by the Governor and a letter of intro, from
the Premier had failed to impress the Gyppo
officials.
“Jeames”':, It is unlikely that Lord Dewar
has left anything like the £5,000,000 men-
tioned in the cables. His elder brother, who
became Lord Forteviot during the war, left
over half a million less when he died the
other day, and he was chairman of the
business. The two differed in every way.
The chairman never left Scotland if he could
help it, was a Liberal in politics, hated all
profane diversions, and never joked. Lord
Dewar loved London, was a strong Tory, a
racing man who betted heavily, an epicure
and a wit! I heard one of his famous
speeches two years ago—a carefully rehearsed
series of impromptus, delivered in a slow
Scotch accent and articulated with actor-like
finish. With his beaky nose, white hair,
ruddy complexion and ultra-smart clothes
he looked more like a retired cavalry colonel
than a whisky-seller.
“D’s” tribute:—-
The late Thomas; Hughes, a knight of Britain and
Rome and Sydney’s first Lord Mayor, was the only
truly religious man I have known who was also a
consistent Christian. He was a fervent R.C., but
never had a word to say against any other religion;
a Tory, but no one ever heard him abuse the
workers; a pure-bred Irishman by descent, but a
lover of England; a man of unimpeachable character,
but one who never had anything to say about moral
weaklings. I only saw him really infuriated once,
though he was probably quick-tempered by nature.
A dunderheaded brass-hat made sneering references
at a reception to Ross Smith to Australians who
had joined the Imperial army. One of Hughes’s
sons had been killed in action with an Irish regi-
ment and the other had served in the R.A.F. His
speech in reply was blistering, but it was delivered
in the quiet, slightly pompous manner which charac-
terised all his utterances. He will be missed in
business circles and at the high table of the Aus-
tralian Club which is more or less sacred to financial
magnates, and which he had frequented regularly for
a quarter of a century before his last illness over-
took him.
“C.Q.”: Talbot Smith, The Bulletin’s
literary rep. in Adelaide, is one of the three
LENNON RAWS, of
Melbourne, for years
Vic. manager for
Elder, Smith and Co.,
now one of the larger
authorities on Aus-
tralian finance and
economics.
commissioners de-
puted to admin-
ister the Com-
monwealth Liter-
ary Fund, and is
now travelling
round Australia
inquiring into the
position of neees-
sit o u s writers.
The Government
grant is a small
one and is only
made available to
authors who are
destitute; jour-
nalists are not
eligible. The Aus-
tralian novelist
seldom rolls in
riches at th e
best of times, and
in lean years he
may resort to
anything but
literature to keep
the wolf from the
doo r. One I
know, with a
dozen successful books behind him, is work-
ing for a tea firm.
There .were two notable points about the
selection of the new S.A. Ministry. (Voting
was by ballot among the 34 Labor members,
but the details were made public.) Lionel
Hill was elected Premier unanimously on an
open vote; on the other hand, Denny came
back to the Attorney-Generalship by only
two votes, scoring 18 against 16 cast for
Kearney, a new arrival in Parliament.
April 17 was the centenary of the birth
of Alfred William Howitt, son of William
and Mary Howitt, distinguished authors in
their day. Australia’s anthropologist of note,
he collaborated with Lorimer Fison in
a standard work on the aborigines, and
received in 1904 the degree of Doctor of
Science from Cambridge. But the public
knew him better as leader of the expedition
which recovered the remains of Burke and
Wills, and brought them to Melbourne for
public burial. Dr. Howitt died at his home
in Gippsland in 1908.
The elimina-
ti o n of ex-
Speaker Taylor
leaves W. D.
Johnson the only
member of the
new Westralian
Assembly wh o
can date back to
1901. That was
when the first
clutch of Labor-
ites came to light
in the State Par-
liament—Daglish,
Ha s ti e, Reside
and Fergie Reid
were the other
four, all dead
except possibly
the last. John-
son, although he
may now be re-
garded as the
Father of the
House, hasn’t sat
continuously like
Taylor managed
to; his anti-con-
scriptionist views
kept him out of
two Parliaments
in the war and
post-war years.
He returned to
the Assembly six
years ago, ‘ but
never managed to
get back to office,
though he was
No. 2 in the first
Labor Ministry
Commander MOYES, of
the Australian Navy, who
went with Mawson to the
Antarctic and attended to
the survey work.
formed, and had a place in two later ones.
Moses Laird—not an Aberdeen Jew but
a Clarence River (N.S.W.) native—-is taking
a 12 months’ spell prior to relinquishing the
job of superintendent of the Ma State's
telegraph service. Laird, who is in his
middle sixties, entered the P.M.G.’s dept,
as a messenger-boy at a country post office
and became a key-pounder at Sydney G.P.O.
in 1890. He got to the top rung of his
particular ladder years ago. He recalls the
time when the whole of the Melbourne-
Sydney business was ferried over one line
and repeated at Albury, and when hard key-
pounding and good penmanship were essential
qualities for the, telegraph-operator. As a
pastmaster in their craft telegraphists could
always rely on a sympathetic hearing from
him.
T. G. Tucker, Emeritus Professor of Clas-
sical Philology at the Uni., is saying good-
bye to Melbourne. He leaves for England
next month. He is an old boy of Launceston
Royal Grammar School and a Fellow of St.
John’s, Cambridge. After a period as the
first Prof, of Classics and English at Auck-
land Uni. (M.L.), he came here in 1885,
and has served as a trustee of the Public
Library and of the National Gallery. He
has published several books on classical sub-
jects, among them “Life in Ancient Athens,”
“Life in the Roman World of Nero and St.
Paul” and “The Sonnets of Shakspeare.”
He will give a round of public lectures
before he goes.
Passed out at 62, Harry Reynolds, the
Speck's Chief Inspector of Factories and
Director of Immigration. He started as a
railway employee and for years was senior
guard on the Hobart-Launceston express. He
was 45 when the Earle Government (1914-
16) gave him its brand-new Industrial
Department to manage, and it was a tribute
to his capacity and tact that the State has
had fewer industrial troubles than any part
of Australia. Parliamentary draftsman
Rule is a brother-in-law.
W. R. Alexander, who has just completed
his sixth year of office as Clerk of Vic.
Legislative Assembly, is held to compare
favorably with any of his five predecessors.
Barker was old-fashioned and formal; the
whiskered Jenkins was picturesque and
showy, with a knack of training capable
subordinates and shifting all the work on
to them ; “Dundreary” Robinson was capable
and careful, but would have made a better
daily-paper editor; T. G. Watson was an
amazing bundle of energy who used himself
up too soon; and Newton was immersed
in procedure and precedents.
MEMORIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sands of the desert again are calm, the
tempest has overblown;
The wind may whisper its age-old psalm
over the sandwaste lone.
No more at the clatter of steel-shod hoofs
do the startled children fly,
Or the Arab women forsake their roofs as
the brown brigades sweep by.
But the sun may rise and the sun may set
on minaret, mosque and tomb.
The desert children will not forget the men
of the Emu plume,
The long, lean men with the careless laugh
who traversed the wastes of sand,
And scattered the Moslem foe like chaff
wherever they sought to stand.
Ah, they were splendid, those days of old; 1
was younger and stronger then,
But I’d barter all that the years may hold
to ride in the ranks again,
To ride once more down the shell-torn slope
to the skyline black with hate,
However forlorn might be the hope, with
Death as a section mate.
But times have altered, and ’twere but vain
to grieve for a bygone day.
My mates of the stirrup and spur and rein
have passed like a dream away.
They muster no more at the bugle call; they
are scattered the wide world o’er,
For the bond is broken that bound us all
on the bitter fields of war.
The sand drifts over the lonely graves, far
out on the wastes of Sin,
And the Emu feather no longer waves in
Cairo’s glare and din....
Dead or living or near or far they will
answer no call of mine.
Well, I wish them luck wherever they are
for the sa«ke of old lang syne!
And our bush-bred horses who stood the test,
to hunger and hardship steeled,
They too are lying by ridge and crest on
many a battlefield.
They were true to the country that gave
them birth, and I hold their mem’ry dear ;
There were hearts as brave ’neath the saddle-
girth as under the bandolier.
Mates of the desert! There’s little we know
and less that we understand,
But sooner or later we all must go on the
last adventure grand.
Who knows? Mayhap on that sunset shore,
regiment and brigade,
Rider and steed, we may meet once more
on one last Grand Parade.
VICTORIA.
EDWARD HARRINGTON.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
[ lie Risk, Boiler Explosion,
1 Workers’ Compensation,
NOBEL-CLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
FOR 43 YEARS
PERPETDAI TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
HAS BEEN IN BUSINESS AS A CORPORATE TRUSTEE.
Since its incorporation it has never been held liable by the Courts for a
breach of Trust of any description.
The Company acts as EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE UNDER WILLS,
ADMINISTRATOR IN INTESTACY, ATTORNEY UNDER POWER, AGENT,
ETC., ETC.
WRITE FOR EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Manager:
H. V. DOUGLASS.
Managing Director:
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
When You Face
A Business Problem
Outside Your
Personal Experience
'J'HAT’S when the Alexander
Hamilton Institute helps ! We
. invite you to send right now for
a little booklet, which will tell
you what you can do when such
a problem arises. It gives all
the details regarding the Insti-
tute and. its service. Its title is
“Forging Ahead in Business,” and
in it you will find your ques-
tions answered. It will cost you
nothing. Write for it to-day!
ALEXANDER HAMILTON INSTITUTE
Controlled in. Australia by
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON.
MELBOURNE: 38 Bank House, Bank Place,
410-12 Collins Street, Cl.
SYDNEY: 38 Barrack House, 16 Barrack
Street.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
This Week’s Investment Tip.
Industrials ought to be the best tip at
the moment; and no doubt in .spots they are.
But not as a group.
Ft is not a question of hours and wages
either, though that is important. It is simply
a question whether, with a few exceptions,
those in charge will take advantage of the
wonderful opportunity which the Govern-
ment is offering them.
That big money can be made by manu-
facturing and sales in Australia is quite
obvious. Sometimes it has been made with-
out anything special in the way of a sales
organisation, but only by a miracle.
Two instances can be cited of what can
De done when sound goods are backed by
sales organisation. The great McKay har-
vester business, now known over half the
world, was built up inside a quarter of a
century ; and for his Rexona soap and pro-
ducts the late S. F. Sheffer, starting with
only a few hundreds of capital, built up in
25 years, almost single-handed, a business
so profitable that nearly £150,000 was paid
for the goodwill alone of one of its sections.
These two people had not only something
to sell; they had also thoroughly well-
handled publicity and sales organisations.
For the greater part the Australian manu-
facturer is prepared to do little more than
produce the goods; and then he complains
that costs are too high to allow him to make
any profit worth mentioning, and very often
he calls for wage-reductions.
The man with something to sell who wants
to. see wage-reductions doesn’t know his job.
His obvious policy is to get employers to pay
as high wages as ever they can afford, and
at the same time so present his own goods to
the public that buyers will pay high prices for
them. You can’t get people on low wages
to pay high prices.
What certainly will happen if the Aus-
tralian manufacturer does not bestir him-,
self is that more and more American and
European manufacturers will put up works
here, within the tariff wall, and thereafter,
with the . help of their publicity and sales
organisations, will win the profits which
ought to belong to the Australian manu-
facturer. Already, the movement has been
well started.
The industrial ought to be the' most
promising group in the market. There is
nothing more profitable than a manufactur-
ing co. with a widely known and popular
line —especially if the line isn’t immortal.
But there is no money in merely producing
a good line; there is little money in pro-
ducing a good line and selling it at a
shade over cost price. Therefore the selection
of industrial stocks for investment ought
to be done with great care. The only ones
worth consideration are those which offer
some evidence that they know how to sell
at good prices as well as how to produce.
Wunderlich, Ltd.
r Dividends ,
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profits. 7 p.c. Ordinary, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1920.. 27,870 5600 10 p.c. = 21,784 486 38,280
1921.. 5600 12* „ „ 37,500 2,737 41,017
1922.. 36,139 5600 10 „ „ 30,000 539 41,556
1923.. 36,800 5600 10 „ „ 30,000 1,200 42,756
1924.. 43,540 5600 12* „ „ 37,500 440 43,’196
1925.. 36,209 5600 10 „ „ 30,000 609 43,805
1926.. 45,336 5600 12* „ ~ 37,500 2,236 46,041
Added to goodwill, £3OOO .. .. 48,041
Premiums on new shares, £45,000 .. 88,041
1927.. 64,143 5600 14 p.c. = 43,400 15,143 103,184
1928.. 69,553 5600 14 „ „ 56,925 7,028 110,212
Added to goodwill, £5186 . . . . 105,026
1929.. 71,358 5600 14 p.c. = 60,350 5,408 110,434
1930.. 56,955 5600 11* „ „ 49,500 1,855 112,289
The sharp drop in the profit reflects the
slump in the building and allied trades. The
accounts put the year’s net result at £62,727
as against £93,015 for the previous term.
The difference between those figures and the
profits shown in the table are the amounts
transferred and divs. paid under the co.’s
staff-partnership scheme
Certi- Divs., Certi- I)ivs.,
ficates. etc; ficates. etc.
1923 .. £1,935 £1585 ] 1927 .. £15,000 £5OlO
1924 .. 16,175 2525 | 1928 .. 15,009 5680
1925 .. 9,675 2470 | 1929 .. 15,000 6657
1926 . . 15,000 3905 j 1930 . . . 5772
Employees are thus encouraged to keep well up
in the collar, save material and turn out good
work. The issue of these certificates is made
out of surplus profits: funds begin to be
available for the purpose as soon as ord.
shareholders have had a minimum of
10 p.c. The total funds represented
by certificates, etc., is now £113,355, or more
than one-quarter of the ord. capital at ITeb.
28; it is all used in the business.
After allowing for the pref. requirements,
the balance of the year’s declared profit was
12.9 p.c. on average ord. capital compared
with 20.5, 20.8, 25.3 and 19.5 p.c. back to
1926. Broadly, the board’s policy is to dis-
tribute profits as they are earned; hence the
fluctuations in the div. rate, from which 2f
points w 7 ere clipped last year, reducing it to
111 p.c. The final distribution was at the
rate of 10 p.c. p.a.
Over the last decade shareholders have
averaged 12 p.c., or a trifle less when the
share premiums of four years ago are taken
into consideration. But, on the whole, these
were fat years, much fatter than may be
expected in the immediate future. Still, the
co. is blessed with a keen and farsighted
management; thus new lines have been con-
stantly added to the co.’s manufaetur-es to
meet future developments, and to spread the
risks factories have been set up in all the
Australian States and Maoriland. The co.
can be expected to get a large slice of what-
ever business is offering, and recent tariff
adjustments should help.
How the business is stepping along and
the comfortable state of the finances is seen
in the next comparison :•—■
1920. 1929. 1930.
Shareholders’ capital .. £379,666 £520,000 £520,000
Employees’ capital . . 14,040 116,368 113,355
Liabilities .. .. 38,244 124,031 136,851
Freeholds .. .. 151,559 329,678 346,818
Leaseholds .. .. 9,659 1,792 1,421
Plant, etc. .. • ... 108,926 247,045 244,735
Stocks 136,396 198,842 202,516
Book debts . . . . 64,342 128,271 107,799
Cash, etc. . . . . 16,598 5,743 6,636
Last year £17,140 was added to the book
value of freeholds, and £2310 more was
written off than was spent on plant. Liquids
w 7 ere drawn upon for £15.905 net, and
£32,820 w r as added to the debt. Hence the
more or less liquid surplus (£lBO,lOO, includ-
ing stocks) was £28,725 lighter than at
the previous balance.
Over the 12 months the ords. sold down
from 455. to 265. At the latter figure the
yield is 7.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The
prefs.—there are 40,000 firsts and a like
number of seconds —are priced at 20s. 9d.
and 205.. 4d. respectively. They carry a fixed
cumulative 7 p.c. and have priority as to
capital. The net tangible cover is £lB 12s.
lOd. and £l7 12s. 10d respectively.
London Stores, Ltd. (Melb.).
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Feb., Profits, Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1920.. 20,829 15 p.c. = 10,500 524 17,805 49,235
1921.. 29,142 17* „ „ 15,250 491 13,401 62.636
1922.. 31,822 17* „ „ 17,500 494 13,828 76,464
Alterations account disappears. . 2,066 78,530
1923.. 48,104 27* p.c.= 27,500 455 20.149 98'.67»
Dropped into reserves .. .. 5,317 103,996
Profit on sale of freetiold . , 27,355 131,351
Reserves capitalised, £lOO,OOO .. 31,351
1924.. 50,327 15 p.c.= 30,000 447 19,880 51,231
1925.. 49,634 15 „ „ 30,000 524 19,110 70,341
Prefs. Ords.
9 p.c. 7* p.c.
1926.. 28,048 4500 15,000 583 7,965 78,306
1927.. 21,117 9000 15,000 623 74,800
10 p.c.
1928.. 43,832 9000 20.000 633 14,199 88,999
12* p.c,
1929.. 36,984 9000 25,000 770 2,214 91,213
1930.. 47,445 9000 25,000 782 12,663 103,876
This co. does a brisk trade in men’s wear.
For many years it had nothing invested in
bricks and mortar, and was able to exhibit
some juicy profits and pay handsome divs.
About half a dozen years ago it decided
to anchor the goodwill by buying the free-
hold. This done, a new 11-storeyed building
was put up on the spot. To see the job
through the ords. subscribed £lOO,OOO in 9
p.c. cum. prefs., and £129,000 was raised on
mortgage. Meanwhile, another property was
sold at a profit of £27,355; also, the ords
were handed £lOO,OOO of bonus scrip, thus
making paid capital £300,000.
The doubt has been whether, with so much
money tied up in premises, satisfactory
returns could be won on capital as increased.
The buidling programme interfered with
takings for a while, of course, but as space
became available the figures responded,
though a year ago they suffered a setback
through keen competition and price-cutting.
Trading conditions have worsened since, but
the management has been prompt to readjust
the business to altered circumstances, as
the leap of £10,461 in last year’s not earn-
ings clearly shows. The improvement was
due to exceptional values offered to the
public, especially in tailoring, tlie board
says. Allowing for the pref. requirements,
the balance of the year’s profit reached 19.2
p.c. on ord. capital compared with 13.9, 17.4,
5.7, 11.4 and 24.5 p.c. back to 1925. Thus
the 12* p.c. diy. was repeated with ease.
Finances are easy :
1920. 1926. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital.. £70,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities .. 36,100 135,730 141,665 138,715
Stock.. .. 98,819 141,043 128,413 122,819
Property, etc. 40,199 290,143 377,846 386,240
Book debts .. 5,054 4,850 8,995 9,904
Plant, etc. . . 4,714 4,803 5,449 5,757
Cash, etc. .. 20,465 76,697 40,674 33,872
The mortgage accounts for all but £9715 of
the liabilities. The co. is a cash trader, has
enough money to buy to the best advantage,
and there was 10s. 4d. in surplus tangible
assets to assist each pound of ord. capital
when the books closed.
Nevertheless the outlook for the retailer is
full of uncertainties. The present acute
position in the exchange market and drastic
tariff alterations will add greatly to landed
cost of imports, while reduced spending will
make it difficult to hold turnover.
The ords., priced at 365. a year ago, are
now 7 at 295. 6d.; at the latter figure the
return is 8* p.c. on a 12£ p.c. div. basis.
The prefs., w r hich have priority as to capital,
can be had at 245. 6d., returning 7.3 p.c.
Last year’s profit was over five times their
annual requirements, and the cover figures
out at slightly over £4 in net tangibles.
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson and Co.
To Ue- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Feb., 1921. .22,736 12* p.c. = 15,750 6,986 21,833
Aug., 1921. .21,498 12* „ ~15,750 5,748 27,581
Feb., 1922. .21,718 12* „ ~ 15,750 5.968 33,549
Aug., 1922. .21.29 S 12* „ ~ 15,750 5,548 39,097
Feb., 1923..21,643 12* „ „ 15,750 5,893 44,990
Aug., 1923. .22,398 12* „ ~ 15,750 6,648 51,638
Feb., 1924. .22,619 12* „ ~ 15,750 6,869 68;507
Aug., 1924. .22,694 12* „ „ 15,750 6,944 65,451
Feb., 1925. .23,207 12* „ „ 15,750 7,457 72,908
Aug., 1925. .25,291 12* „ ~ 15,750 9,541 82,449
Feb., 1926..25,347 12* „ ~ 15,750 9,597 92,046
Aug., 1926..28.446 15 „ „ 18,900 9,546 101,592
Feb., 1927..28,316 12* „ ~ 15,750 12,566 114,158
Aug., 1927..28,378 12* „ „ 15,750 12,628 126,786
Profit on sale of property, £52,671.. 179,457
Feb., 1928. .28,947 25 p.c. = 31,500 176,904
Aug., 1928..26,918 12* „ „ 15,750 11,168 188,072
Profit on sale of property, £8,665.. 196,737
Feb., 1929.. 28,503 12* p.c. = 15,750 | „ 207 490
Staff fund, £2OOO . . .. J Ly > 75rf
July, 1929..24,071 22* p.c. = 28.350 203,211
Jan., .1930. .29,016 15 „ „ 18,900
Staff fund, £lOOO .. j 9,lib 212,327
This prosperous Sydney co. runs a chain of
drug stores. Impatient at the delay in dis-
tributing sweets, shareholders asked the
board a year ago to look into the
matter. The result was a special cash
distribution of Is. per share, and an
extra 3d., making 6d., was tacked on
to the bonus sent out with the last
10 p.c. div. Thus shareholders got 18f p.c.
for the 11 months to the close of last
accounts, and that was more than covered
by net earnings for the period, which
were remarkably robust considering that
trading generally became much duller as the
year advanced. On an annual basis, the
profit was equal to 22.9 p.c. on capital com-
pared with 22, 22.7, 22.5, 20.1 and 18.2 p.c.
back to 1925.
It is 10 years since the last lot of bonus
scrip,, one for five, w 7 as handed out, and that
followed a similar distribution 18 months
earlier. The rate to shareholders was imme-
diately dropped from 15 p.c. to 12* p.c. and
has since been sweetened at intervals with
special cash bonuses. Shareholders have
averaged 15 p.c. over the last decade. Mean-
time the margin between earnings and dis-
tributions has widened, and, w 7 ith £61,336
of profit on recent property sales, reserves
totalling £212.327 had visibly accumulated
to assist £252,000 of paid capital at Jan 31.
Of recent years the board has not been
able to find profitable employment for all
the surplus earnings in the business, though
something was done in this way during the
last term, w 7 hen the co. opened several new 7
shops in the suburbs. The book value of
freeholds and stocks —an untidy entry—
moved up £28.925, and liquids were drawn
upon for £17,115 net. Here is the position
as balance-sheet figures disclose it:—
Feb., Feb., Feb., Feb.,
1921, 1928. 1929. 1930.
Liabilities . . £34,684 £48,228 £47,429 £50,253
Premises, stocks,
plant, etc. , . 282,819 149,169 152,232 181,157
Book debts, etc. .. 10,445 144,007 174,105 166,741
Govt, securities . . 14,709 210,055 190,351 175,170
Cash, etc.... .. 17,986 12,772 15,352 20,782
Shares in other cos. .9,308 8,630 3,630 3,630
For the most part surplus earnings have been
invested in Government securities. Thus, in
addition to receiving an average of over
15 p.c. p.a. for the last nine years, shareholders
afc the close of latest accounts could see
£303,984 more of surplus liquids (£312,440)
than they could at Feb. 28, 1921; though
during that period only £190,494 was visibly
added to reserves.
Though the future is uncertain, the co.
is so w 7 ell ribbed financially that shareholders’
prospects remain bright. Meanwhile, the
market considers that an average of 15 p.c.
is all that need be looked for, so it has short-
ened its bid for the scrip from 61s. a year
ago to 455. Allowing for the final div. and
bonus, the yield at the current figure is 6 9
p.c. on al5 p.c. div. basis. The visible
backing is 365. lOd. in net tangibles.
Permewan, Wright, Ltd. (Melb.).
To Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1920 .. 12,261 10 p.c. = 5,000 7261 44, 281
Set aside for taxation, £2500 . - 41,7»J.
1921 .. 14,549 12*,p.c. = 7,500 . 7049 48,830
1922 .. 6,850 8 „ „ 6,000 850 49,680
1923 .. 9,704 10 „ „ 7,500 2204 51,884
1924 .. 15,486 12* „ „ 9,375 6111 57,995
Premiums on shares, £6250.. ■■ 54,24 a
1925 . . 15,811 12* p.c. = 9,375 6436 70,681
1926 .. 19,031 12* „ „ 12,500 6531 77,212
1927 .. 22,165 12* „ „ 13,802 8363 80,6,5
Premiums on shares, £6250..
1928 . . 24,693 12* p.c. =17,578 7115 98,940
1929 . . 19,732 12* „ „ 19,53-1 201 99 ’ 1 £
1930 . . 17,949 10 ~ „ 15,625 2324 101,46 a
This carrying and produce business, with
branches scattered through the back coun-
try of Vic. and N. S. Wales, has more than
trebled paid capital (now £156,250) since
1920. The figures got a nice lift when the
business of Broadbent Bros., which covered
Western Vic. and the Mallee, was bought in
1925. Profits, which to a great extent are
governed by the seasons and prices, were
stepping along in fine style until drought
over most of the co.’s area, and other diffi-
culties, bit into earnings two years ago:—
Gross Exes, (not inc. Exes. p.c. of
Profits. Depreciation). Gross Profits.
1921. . £91,253 £75,558 82.8
1923.. 78,281 66,176 84.5
1925.. 98,664 79,700 80.8
1926.. 136,528 111,915 81.8
1927.. 138,866 114,413 82.4
• 1928.. 150,409 120,455 80.1
1929.. 131,310 107,172 81.6
1930.. 131,853 110,086 83.5
Last year the management did well to show
gross profit a trifle better than the previous
year’s. But exes, made off with an extra
£2914, and, after allowing for other adjust-
ments, the net result fell to 11.4 p.c. on
average capital compared with 12.6, 17.6,
20.1. 18.9 and 25.1 p.c. back to 1925. So
the 2* p.c. bonus, which went out with the
10 p.c. div. for six years, was dropped.
The provision for depreciation (£2117) was
equal to 10 p.c. of the book value of the
plant (£21,179 at Jan. 81), but was only
about half the amount set aside two years
ago.
The growth of the business and the year’s
difficult trading again show up in balance-
sheet figures:—
1920. 1925. 1928. 1929. 1930.
£. £ £ £ £
Liabilities. 79,212 63,415 97,962 129,091 114,548
Plant and
property. 47,193 38,571 75,934 79,288 67,433
Book debts 90,583 119,109 172,644 212,150 207,630
Merchandise 32,883 44,244 86,613 78,706 82,234
Shares Mur-
ray Ship-
ping . . 18,000 18,000 18,000 18,000
Cash, etc... 5,834 22,797 16,727 13,306 10,278
The reduction in the debt is mainly on
account of depositors and sundry creditors.
At the close of accounts there was £32,528
coming to the former, £64,556 to the latter,
and £17,468 to the bank. The more or less
liquid surplus (£185,594, including merchan-
dise) was £10,523 stronger than at the pre-
vious balance. Book debts are conspicuous ;
much obviously depends upon the size of
the contingency fu,nd. The holding in Murray
Shipping, which is in at par, has not turned
in anything for the last two years.
Though widespread rains have brightened
seasonal prospects, it is doubtful whether
much, if any, improvement in the co.’s earn-
ings need be looked for during the
term. The market now 7 prices the 255. paid
shares at 30s. or thereabouts as against 48s.
a year ago. Allowing for the final div., the
return at the current price is 8.6 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. The backing amounts to
41s. 3d. in net tangibles, of which 10s. Bd.
is represented by fixed assets, surplus liquids
accounting for the balance.
McDowell’s, Ltd. (Sydney).
Towards
, Dividends — Re-
Feb Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1921*.. 5.274 8 p.c. 7 p.c. 4970 304 16,359
1922 .. 5,579 8,, 5,, 5742 ■ — 16,552
1923 . . 11,464 8 „ 7* „ 8284 3180 13,372
£26,100 of capital written off; goodwill
expelled and leases and other assets written
down. Reserves.
1924 .. 14,606 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 8,630 5,976 9,297
1925 . . 27,760 8 ~ 12* „ 10,588 17,172 26,469
1926 . . 23,668 8 „ 12* „ 18,902 4,766 31,235
1927 . . 40,127 8 ~ 15 ~ 27,539 12,588 43,823
1928 . . 48,207 8 ~ 15 „ 27,681 20,526 64,349
Share premiums, £15,767 . . • • 80,117
1929 . . 62,757 8 p.c. 15 p.c. 37,141 25,616 105,733
1930 . . 55,568 8 ~ 15 „ 37,141 18,427 124,160
*Eight months.
An astonishingly good result, all things con-
sidered. Gross profits (£264,722) fell £8604 ;
management charges were up £1585, but
£3OOO less was laid aside for the taxgatherer
(£12,000). So, after handing the prefs.
their £BOO, there was enough to show
20.8 p.c. net on average ord. capital com-
pared with 25.5, 26.4, 22 and 15.7 p.c. back
to 1926. Hence the 15 p.c. to shareholders
(5 p.c. of it is labelled bonus) was repeated
with ease. And that at a time when several
big retailers have lowered their divs. and
others are struggling to reduce overhead.
llow is it that McDowell’s has not visibly
suffered as much as the rest? The strength
(Continued on page 16.)


il
SB
mm
m
SSSS
m
WKk
iSSSSSS®®
bluis ■ 1
mm
i 1
:sa
as
BS
#s*2
•SS3S
BH
IBs
.S&i
*sa
‘SftiSsiS
i^rr^pj
»SlfeHihSS=
"tSB
SiHliWHsa
.
sKSS
jigs
ISMMB
N SB
(JIHMHInM.
rniinmMiiHiHlW
r&S
iiißn
!•»«£;
iIiSE
iaSgggsssiiiiiwSiMlfciggSSS^fflSMigggtagiwlgggggSggglisg
’sss^aesSgSmSSSt^^&SA
.
a-.:
IS!;;!
SSaUaJUUS?'*-:::;
s>
is
$$
«5s
$$
s?
5§
Y
\
SSfe
%
33NVtlri
N 3
e


LEATHER
BELTING
THE LEADER SINCE 18SS
More Power for the
Wheels of Industry
There are two things which have made “Pioneer” Belting famous
in Australian Industry—the finest leather and the expert knowledge
and supervision in its manufacture.
ThaJ; the name Pioneer” is synonymous with greater transmission
efficiency is best demonstrated by its selection for the majority of
industrial plants. For dependable, efficient and economical power-
transmission specify
“PIONEER” BELTING
Made and Guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
PIONEER HOUSE, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY (our only City Address).
Are Your
Investments
Safe?
See “ ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly”
for April
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM,
22/6. From Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.—Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coluson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
Ms * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage, Debenture Issues Underwritten. Exchange
Arranged. Geo. E. Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria
Buildings, Corner Collins and Swanston Streets, Mel-
bourne.— Advt.
* * * *
In any plant where the storage of acid or acidulous
liquids is necessary, metal tanks are practically
useless. Pioneer Wood Tanks for such purposes are
absolutely efficient, as, no matter what type of
liquid is stored, they remain unaffected. Managers
of butter factories, mines and cyanide plants have
found Pioneer Wood Tanks far better than any
other type. Full particulars from the Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree
Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at Footscray,
Victoria.— Advt.
t- Ms %
Heating, Ventilating and Drying Plants tested,
adjusted and maintained. Designs prepared. Lewis
Bros., 178 Oxford Street, Paddington. F 1306.
—Advt.
M* Ms Ms
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
Ms Ms Ms Ms
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MaDE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney ; J. R. Reid and Sons
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt
W
&
YC
ijoord&son
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
fa.
DT
-Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agent*. 26 30 Clarence St.. Sydney
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-Glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone,
etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
of the business lies mainly in rapid turn-
over, and this is due very largely to the
suitability of the site for the purpose. Also
the contraction in public spending has thus
far partly taken the form of discrimination
in favor of the less expensive goods which
this co. chiefly handles. But whether the
co. will be able to maintain its recent high
rate of earning in the face of rationed imports,
a 50 p.c. super-tariff on some lines, the high
cost of exchange, and increasing unemploy-
ment is very doubtful. However, the business
is well handled, there is a wide margin be-
tween earnings and distributions, each pound
of ord. capital has the assistance of 10s. 3d.
of visible reserves, trading is mainly on
a cash basis, and finances are comfortable.
Here is as much as balance-sheet figures
tell:—-
1925. 1927. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital.. £88,309 £189,203 £247,280 £252,272
Mortgages . . - 62,500 165,500 163,500
Sundry creditors 456 26,122 32,060 24,920
Freeholds, lease-
Investments. 0 ." WS } 181 - 35 S 329 > 922 3 ".0«0
Stock . . 58,800 100,216 130,353 145,359
Book debts . . 23,078 30,710 28,380 23,284
Cash, etc. . . 14,754 33,340 103,098 86,952
During the year a new bulk-store was bought,
and £20,158 added to the book value of free-
holds, etc. The etcetera includes a trifle of
leasehold and an unspecified holding in
Waters’s Cash Order Co.; there may be a
little inner reserve there. And then the
more or less liquid surplus (£67,175, includ-
ing the mortgage and stocks) was £2904
stronger than at the previous balance. Stocks,
up £15,006, are claimed to be conservatively
valued.
It is only during the last half-dozen years
that the co. has bounded ahead. During
that time it bough! part of the freehold of
its George-street premises, together with the
business and freehold of its old friend and
neighbor, W. T. Waters. The freehold has
since been extended by the purchase of
Denison House. Thus, goodwill has been
anchored and enhanced.
The ords., which fetched 455. 6d. a year
ago, are now at 335. 6d. on the market.
Allowing for the final div. and bonus, the
return at the current price is 9.5 p.c. as
long as the 15 p.c. distribution continues,
or 6.3 p.c. if the rate drops to 10 p.c. The
well-protected prefs. seldom come into the
market.
Lustre Hosiery, Ltd.
In the following table goodwill (£10,000),
preliminary exes. (£Bl2 to commence) and
patents are not included as assets:—
, -Dividends To Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. serves. Deficit.
1928. .21,324 10 p.c. 10 p.c. = 20,000 1,324 2,276
Added Intangibles £32 ~ .. 2,308
Dec., Reserves.
1928* 21,469 10 p.c. 10 p.c. = 10,000 11,469 9,161
Added Intangibles, £47 .. .. 9,114
1929.. 39,590 5 p.c. 5 p.c. = 10,050 29,540 38,654
*Six months.
It has been a quick development. The co.
was. formed in 1921, early technical diffi-
culties were soon overcome, and from the
start the co. gave a lot of attention to
marketing. Thus sales flew along from
£15,180 for the first 10 months to £340,625
for the 12 months to Dec. 81, 1928, when
they doubled the previous year’s total. Since
then the figures have not been disclosed.
Substantial additions have had to be made
annually to the factory and plant, to finance
which £165,700-odd of fresh capital has been
got in since 1925, making the total on the
share register £249,759 at Dec. 31; there
was at that date £241 to come in.
Last year shareholders, who received an
all-round 10 p.c. for the 2£ years to Dec.
31, 1928, had to be content with an interim
5 p.c., paid in Oct. No further distribution
is to be made until the outlook becomes
clearer, the board says. The year’s gross
profit was £165,780 as against £88,986 for
the preceding six months, when the rate of
declared net earnings was slightly better also.
Nevertheless, after allowing for a full 12
months’ pref. requirements, the balance of
the profit claimed last year was 21.4 p.c.
on average ord. capital.
The difficulty was that the whole of the
year’s profit, and more, was in the store-
room when the books closed. That was
because the spring and summer sales, for
which the management had regularly built
up stocks, weakened instead of strengthened
last year. The co. was already leaning
heavily on outsiders, and to have further
increased its obligations would certainly have
been unwise, and perhaps not easy.
Look at these figures :—•
June, Dec., Dec.,
1928. 1928. 1929.
Ord capital .. £133,334 £133,334 ) . „ 0/)Q
Pref. „ .. 66,666 66,666 j ±,249 > 759
Overdraft .. 49,169 35,386 43,171
Creditors .. 47,506 67,434 94,940
Freeholds .. 26,404 27,615 40,472
Plant .. .. 75,936 87,015 135,934
Stocks .. .. 157,689 123,115 180,527
Debtors .. .. 49,262 95,556 85,239
Cash, etc. .. 1,107 1,179 1,352
Tlie year’s surplus earnings, £49,759 of new
capital and £35,291 that was tacked on to
the debt during the year went into stocks
(up £57,412), plant (up £48,919) and free-
hold (up £12,857). Including stocks—much
obviously depends upon the figure at which
they have been written —the more or less
liquid surplus (£129,007) was £11,977
stronger than at the close of the previous
accounts. Plant is report d thoroughly up-
to-date and in good order. But the position
will look more attractive when stocks are
worked down and liabilities reduced.
Though the market generally is well
stocked, and competition promises to be keen
and spending less free, the recent strength-
ening of the tariff has provided a rare oppor-
tunity for hoisery and other manufacturers
to show what they can do. Meanwhile the
share-market prices this co.’s prefs.—there are
83,333 of them carrying a fixed cumulative
10 p.c. and with priority as to capital—at
par. Allowing for the accrued div. the
return is 10.5 p.c. The cover amounts to
£3 9s. 3d. in net tangibles. The ords., which
fetched 235. a year ago, are at 18s.; the
net tangible backing is 245. Id., mostly in
fixed assets, worth what they can be made
to earn.
The Slump in Copper.
Apart from its effect upon the profits of
producers, the sudden collapse of the price
of electrolytic from £B3 15s. to £66 last
week is of special interest because of the
international cartels now being organised
for the improvement of the lead, spelter and
tin markets. While prices for these metals
have consistently slipped during the last
five years, and are now at unprofitable levels
except for low cost producers, the figure for
electrolytic soared to £ll2 2s. Gd. last year,
and, until a week ago, had not got below
£7O per ton since early in 1925.
Prior to that the industry suffered from
a prolonged period of depression, due mainly
to the slow liquidation of heavy war stocks.
The recent strengthening of the price was
very largely the result of action taken by
American producers to control production
and ration the market. But during the last
12 months there has been a slackening of
industrial activities in most countries, which
has lessened the demand for copper, and
maintenance of the price at too high a level
made the position worse. World stocks of
the metal touched their lowest level, 270,111
tons, at the end of February, 1929, but rose
to 457,688 tons at the end of February this
year. _
Chief danger in maintaining the price of
any commodity at too high a level is that it
forces the use of substitutes, and once con-
sumers become accustomed to substitutes it
may mean a run of low prices for the
original commodity, - as was actually the
experience of copper after two previous
attempts at price-control within the last
generation. It seems plain enough that
prices cannot be stabilised regardless of
economic conditions. But that is not to say
that control has not its value. It may, for
example, steady the market while new uses
are being demonstrated for a product.
Mt. Lyell.
The only large-scale copper producer in
Australia is Mt. Lyell. For the 12 months
to September 30, 1929, it turned out 7803
tons refined copper compared with 7060
tons in the previous year; electrolytic aver-
aged £B3 Is. 4d. as against £67, and net
earnings sprang £174,236, mounting to
£435,752. Large savings in costs following
the completion in 1928 of the refinery at
Queenstown and the North Lyell tunnel
helped, too.
But a big slice of Lyell’s gatherings comes
from its interests in the fertiliser industry,
which were recently merged with those of
other producers. Its shareholdings now
comprise:—
Commonwealth Fertilizers and Chemicals,
Ltd ' .. £880,186*
Cuming, Smith and Mt. Lyell (W.A.) 400,000
Australian Fertilizers Pty, ’ . . . . 93,750
Wallaroo-Mt. Lyell, Ltd/ .. .. 27,150
Metal Manufacturers Pty. .. .. 196,817
Zinc Producers’ Assn. Pty. . . .. 250
£1,598,103
*lncludes 283,931 7 p.c. cum. prefs.
The lot stood in the books at £1,382,908 at
Sept. 30. equal to 21s. sd. per pound of
Lyell capital. In addition there were sur-
plus liquids equal to another 6s. 6d. per
share; the mine figured at 7s. lOd.; plant,
etc., 7s. lOd.
Including Is. 6d. bonus, those on the
register got 4s. per share last year as
against 2s. 6d. for the previous term. The
market, which paid 425. for the scrip in
Nov., now prices it at 30s. or thereabouts.
At the latter figure the return is 8.3 p.c. on
a 124 p.c. div. basis.
Just before they dissolved partnership a
week or so ago, Philip Pring and Docker, the
Sydney stock and share* brokers, published
the 1930 edition of their guide to Eastern
Tin Stocks. It is the most complete thing
of its kind yet put out.
% :Jc * *
Policy-holders in the Ordinary branch of
the M.L.C. are entitled to a minimum 80
p.c. of the surplus in their department.
Recently the board was given discretionary
power to increase the proportion up to 85
p.c.; last year’s bonuses were equal to 82 p.c.
The other 18 p.c. (£101,666), together with
£78,000 from the Industrial and £20,334
from the Accident branch, provided a 100
p.c. dividend to shareholders.
* * * ;[:
Recently the Whitworth Co. at Irvine-
bank (N.Q.) called in outside technical
advice. Saint Smith, formerly a Govern-
ment geologist, threw cold water on some
of the derelicts, and suggested only a little
prospecting on others. It is a very different
picture from the big dividends promised in
the prospectus. The co. has closed down,
and is now looking for a purchaser. There
are rumors about an Australian organisation
taking over the shows, or some of them. They
are purely prospecting problems; if there
are any more lenses of ore in them they
have to be found.
* * *
W. S. Robinson, on behalf of Austral
Development, Ltd., London, has taken a free
18 months’ working option over the Golden
Butterfly, Norseman. Terms, if option exer-
cised, £85,000 cash, or £40,000 cash and
55,000 fully paid £1 shares in a co. whose
issue is not to exceed £320,000. George Klug,
of Bewick, Moreing and Co., will direct the
examination of the mine.
* * * #
Prospector Alf Thompson, acting for
Kimberley Oil Options and an Adelaide co.,
reports having discovered a new belt of
gold-bearing country two miles wide in the
Edjudina district, 120 miles from Kalgoorlie.
Thompson states that over a length of quar-
ter-mile he can obtain good prospects, and,
at points where the lode outcrops, values
run up to several ounces per ton. As Thomp-
son is not a boom-type prospector, much is
expected from the discovery.
* * * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) What is the difference between an
ordinary and a preference share? (2) Which
is best for a small investor? —5986.
(1) Speaking generally, a pref. share
is entitled to the first bite out of profits.
Sometimes pref. shares are cumulative, some-
times non-eumulative. In the former case
the pref. div., if not paid in one year, is
a debt owing to the shareholder. Some pref.
shares are participating: that is, though the
div. may be fixed, they share with ordinaries
in distributions of profits beyond that fixed
figure. The participation may be limited or
unlimited, but in the vast majority of cases
they stop at the fixed 6 or 7 or 8 p.c.,
or whatever it may be. Generally they are
preferential as to capital as well as dividend;
that is to say, in the event of winding up
the prefs. get first bite of the assets after
all outside debts have been paid. (2) The
pref. share offers the better security; but
(except in very rare cases) the ordinary
offers the better chance of big earnings.
Which is the better depends on what it is
you want. Moreover, you will see there are
many sorts of preferences, some worth far
more than others.
Are the inner reserves of a bank kept in
money? If not, how are they available to
meet bad debts? —5767.
Not necessarily; they are part of the
general assets. Say you bought a mare for
£2O, and she had a foal which presently you
knew was worth £5. If in making up your
balance-sheet you disregarded the foal, then
you would have an “inner reserve” of £5 with
which to meet contingencies. An inner
reserve is simply something that cos. keep
up their sleeve so that they may have the
wherewithal to meet unexpected losses which
they don’t want to disclose.
Though a shareholder I am unable to get
any information about Eastern Traders, Ltd.
Can you help me? —5976.
See Bulletin, April 24, 1929, for earlier
information. The position is no better than
indicated at that time, and is probably worse.
Co. has timber concessions in Borneo and
milling plant and equipment worth over
£200,000 on paper. Labor is cheap, also
transport per waterways, but high freights
help to make it impossible to market the
products in Australia. The co. owed its
creditors £20,000 in 1928; probably more
to-day. It is not likely under present con-
trol to carry on business profitably, and
should the co. be wound up it is not likely
that its assets w T ould realise more than its
liabilities.
We have a big low-grade gold proposition
—slate with iron pyrites. The gold, is very
fine. (1) Suppose we mill dry and then send
direct to cyanide vat, what would be a rea-
sonable recovery? (2) Any books re costs
and latest processes? (3) Will the Gov-
ernment pay a. gold bounty, and will it apply
to N. S. Wales ? —5995.
(1) Recovery would largely depend upon
the character of the ore. Normally 90 p.c.
would not be excessive. (2) Know none that
cover the whole field. (3) The Federal Gov-
ernment has said no so far, but may change
its mind. If it pays in one State it must
pay in all.
Three years ago a go-getter who knew I
had a few pounds signed me up for some
shares in a new co., though I was under
age (under 18, in fact ) at the time. There
is still a liability on those shares. How do
I stand? Can they make me pay? —s9GS.
No. Not unless you have ratified the busi-
ness since you became of age. You might
possibly recover the money paid, and they
could recover any dividends paid, but the
proceedings might be costly.
I applied for a “£25 certificate” in a
Sydney co., and was advised that my appli-
cation would be placed before the board at
first opportunity, after which “an official
receipt ” would be issued “if the certificates
are allotted .” I haven't received any certi-
ficates, and have received no reply to request
for return of money. What should I do? —
5932.
Make a further demand; if that does not
produce the money, hand the matter over
to a lawyer.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
T.W.H.: All much too speculative for that
purpose... .G.S.S.: We classify them: A, 5,6, 7;
B, 3, 12; O, 1,2, 4, 14. Also 13 may be very
good; but we don’t know enough about it
S.M.C.: Return is £6 Bs. 6d. p.c., which isn’t
enough.... Ico: Couldn’t do better.... T.K.: It’s an
English co. of very high standing. .. .V.G.K.: (1)
Safety being so important, Government stock. It
shows over 6 p.c. If he has no dependents, an
annuity. (2) Likely to see a dull time S.M.D.:
Don’t think it’s a fraud; it has some trustworthy
directors... .G.K.D.: Largely a gamble on the
linseed market. Likely to go further back.. . .
Leggo: Seems to us that profits, as a rule, are likely
to shrink; so presently you may have to be prepared
to supplement the bonus if you buy further insurance
with it,
lli sfe * *


SHADOW SHOWS.
The
STAIE
THEATRES
SYDNEY ANO MELBOURNE
“Splinters” was given a private screening
at the Melbourne Majestic before 15 generals,
a couple of hundred politicians and a house-
ful of the laity who did something this critic
has never seen done with a talkie before —
joined in the singing. The piece is a
robustious mixture of jest .and song, and
both the jesting and the singing are fre-
quently of a high order. It is a story of
Armageddon. lI.Q. feels the need of bright-
ening up the spirits of the troops. It is
learnt that a one-time vaudeville favorite
is in the trenches, and he is pulled out and
commissioned to form a revue co. A farm
building is converted into a concert hall,
talent is drawn from all parts of the army,
and the revue is a triumph, especially the
“female” ballet. A second performance is
interrupted by a German attack on the vil-
lage, and audience and actors knock off to
repel the invader. By one of those merciful
dispensations of stage destiny, the revue
company does not suffer a single casualty.
It is a simple story, Bairnsfatherly in its
concentration on one side —and a real side —
of the life of the British soldier. Apart
from its excellence as entertainment, its chief
charm is its Englisliness. It is English in its
self-restraint, its casual good humor and the
quality of its sentiment. The present writer
has had occasion frequently to damn British
films heartily and with emphasis, the reason
being that they were not British but only
footling imitations of the discarded reach-
me-downs of Hollywood. The charge cannot
be brought against “Splinters.” Its fun is
directly descended from Chaucer and Fal-
staff through Harry Lauder. The sound
reproduction might be improved in places,
but it is no worse than the first year’s talkies,
and improvement should be easy. Hal Jones,
Reg Stone, Nelson Keys and Sydney Howard
act very naturally. The incident described
is said to be true, and most of the per-
formers were original actors in it.
# * *
“The Gold Diggers of Broadway,” the
new Warner Bros, color-talkie at Sydney
St. James, has a skeleton plot. However,
it is a first-class entertainment, for the bones
are lavishly hung with ballets, songs (most
of them by one of those crooning baritones
who are as essential to U.S.A. shows of this
class, nowadays, as a murderer is to drama),
and examples of the way stage performers
spend their leisure hours. These New York-
ers impress an alien observer as more or
less real. They behave and express them-
selves, on the whole, as normal human beings
might be expected to in the given circum-
stapces, and a fairly credible reconstruction
emerges of an aspect of modern American
civilisation. The action takes place at a
vaudeville show and in the flat of the chorus-
girl Jerry. (Ann Collins, played by the
dancer Ann Pennington, and Stephen Lee—
Conway Tearle—are the only characters
whom the programme dignifies with sur-
names.)
Wally (tall, young, handsome and the pos-
sessor of an excruciating accent) wants to
marry Violet, an ingenue chorine. But his
rich uncle Stephen, who regards female
vaudevillains as gold-diggers, has forbidden
the banns. He is persuaded to view the
diggers in their habit as they live, and mis-
takes Jerry for the girl his nephew loves.
His lawyer accompanies him, and is seized on
by an ageing
adventuress —
portrayed with
u p r o a rious
energy and
merciless can-
dor by Winnie
Light n e r.
Mabel has
failed in busi-
ness as an
extorter of
money from
sugar - daddies,
and her crude
efforts to take
the lawyer
down for a
diamond neck-
lace, a car
and a proposal
o f marriage
suggest tli e
exp lanation.
She is as good-
natured, irre-
sponsible and
WINNIE LIGHTNER.
brainless as a street-walker. Her imper-
sonation is good low comedy, but it is also a
biting picture of a common tragedy.
While Mabel has trying to gold-dig
the lawyer Jerry has been at work on the
uncle. Her idea is to disgust him so thor-
oughly with her that he will welcome, the
transference of Wally’s affections to Violet.
He ends by falling in love with this sweet and
beautiful girl himself. Not only that. He
changes his opinions of the morals of chorus-
girls, and enraptures Wally and Violet with
the announcement that their marriage will
have his financial support. The conversion
is effected during a supper party at which
most of the guests get tight and the ladies
dance half naked amongst the food, and at
a private seance in Terry’s flat afterwards,
at which Mr. Lee gets paralytic while she
keeps sober by pouring her champagne into
an ice-bucket.
Nick Lucas, the crooner above-mentioned,
whines sentimentally through his nose at
short intervals, and Ann Pennington dances
beautifully. The ballets, with their elaborate
futuristic, backgrounds, are more effective
than most technicolor displays of the sort,
though from time to time 24 faceless youths
may be seen dancing with the same number
of faceless girls. This weird effect is pro-
duced every time the performers move up-
stage. It is claimed that the Grandeur device
minimises, if it does not do away with, this
disability, which at present gives ballets in
technicolor an appearance of being per-
formed in a colored fog. It is a mystery
that film-makers should spend so much
money on ballets, pending the general intro-
duction of the new process. But then most
of their ways are mysterious. There is
hardly a big talkie show in Sydney which is
not featuring one or more musical turns—
shadows of coons singing in cotton-fields, or
Dagoes twanging ukeleles, or Yankee orches-
tras playing old overtures. And practically
all of them produce deep sighs of relief as
they fade out.
¥ * ¥
“Their Own Desire’’ (M.-G.-M.), the big
picture at Melb. Regent, is a 95 per cent,
talkie. The other five per cent, is made up
of Norma Shearer’s sighs, which an unsophis-
ticated listener might confuse with the ven-
tilating system. In this piece Miss Shearer
has not the opportunities for refined acting
of which she took such excellent avail in
“The Last of Mrs. Cheney.” A trite story
brings Miss Shearer’s art down a peg or
two. In fact, she very nearly reaches the
bottom rung. Her clothes follow her on
the journey—-they are nearly as vulgar as
her acting. She is the daughter of an elderly
man who abandons his somewhat dull and
depressing wife for a smartish widow, despite
the scoldings of his beloved child, who regards
his behavior as disgusting. She then goes
off and has a rapid love affair with a young
man whom she first meets under water in a
bathing pool. lie kisses her, they rise to
the surface, he embraces her, she likes his
appearance previously obscured by bubbles,
and in less than a hundred feet of flight and
pursuit she succumbs to the natatorial
Petruchio. Later she discovers that he is
the son of her father’s inamorata. She tells
her mother of her intended union and that
lady develops symptoms of heart failure. The
lovers thereafter meet clandestinely and one
night they go out on a lake in a canoe, and
the producers set up a sea which they gener-
ously make large enough to swamp an
Atlantic liner. They are reported drowned,
but the audience feels quite confident they
are not, and in due course aeroplanes find
the girl reciting the Lord’s Prayer over the
youth on an island. This presumably recon-
ciles the father to his wife, though the point
is left to the imagination.
It is the only thing that is left to the
imagination. “Their Own Desire” is the sort
of film in which sex-appeal is handed around
in a soup-plate. It is doubtful whether there
are many people in the community so sex-
starved as to want a second helping. One
item which rather destroys the dignity of
several situations for a Melbourne audience
is that the fashionable suburh in which they
are staged is called Collingwood.
* * #
“Slightly Scarlet,” the new Paramount all-
talkie at Sydney State Theatre, is only open
to hostile criticism in the matter of its silly
title. Few will realise that an almost flaw-
less crook drama lies behind it. Some of the
show’s good points are negative; there is
little bloodshed, no sickly sentiment, no
crude situations, and no uproar. But from
the moment we learn that the hero and
heroine are jewel thieves (unbeknown to
each other) the proceedings become one long
thrill.
The Hon. Courtenay Parkes is an Eng-
lishman who carries on the Raffles business
unaided except for casual assistance from
his valet. Lucy Stavrin is American, and a
reluctant member of a gang directed by
the unspeakable Malatroff. They meet at
Nice, where they have arrived separately
from Paris to steal the pearl and ruby neck-
lace that Sylvester Corbett of the TT.S.A.
has bought for his wife from a Maharajah.
Miss Stavrin’s job is to get hold of the
necklace and hand it to Malatroff after she
has substituted a paste one for it. Mr.
Parkes proposes to burgle it for himself.
The play records their efforts to bring off
the robbery, their growing affection for each
other and disgust with their profession, and
the intrusion of Malatroff —most unfortu-
nately for himself—at a moment when they
have put the necklace back in its safe, and
decided to marry and go straight.
Perhaps the cleverest feature of this pro-
duction is the casting. There is no other
woman star who could have expressed the
conflicting forces of good and evil —desire
EVELYN BRENT.
to reform and
dread of the
c o nsequences;
criminal hard-
ness and femi-
nine charm —
so acceptably
as Evelyn
Brent. Clive
Brook, as the
E n g 1 isliman
Pa-rkes, has
merely to be
himself; but
Paul Lukas
who plays
Malatroff,
Eugene Pa 1-
lette (more
convincing as
a genial mil-
lionaire than
he ever was in
a detective
role), and
Helen Ware
(Mrs. Corbett)
have elaborate character parts, and they
make the most of them. The staging is so
good—always adequate and never over-done
—that it is hard to believe it came from
Hollywood.
*£•
The skimpy programmes of the most pala-
tial of the talkie palaces strike an incon-
gruous note rather suggestive of a guest in
underclothes at a Government House ball.
There were a dozen prominent performers in
“Two Weeks Off” at Sydney Capitol; only
five names appeared on the programme.
Similarly with “Big Time” at the Regent.
The programme writers of the legitimate
stage, knowing their business, see that they
can help illusion enormously by identifying
all their characters, and by giving names to
the countries, cities, houses, etc., that the
characters frequent. Compare the pro-
gramme of a Shaw or Barrie play with a
talkie programme. In “His Glorious Night”
—a play of the Ruritanian breed which
depends for much of its romantic interest on
the status of the characters and the localities
in which they are functioning—the princess
and her mother are housed in an anony-
mous hotel. Not a single scene is mentioned
on the programme, and neither the dialogue
nor the screen, which helped under the
reign of the silents, does much to make the
position clearer. Film-enthusiasts sit through
most of the shows they visit, nowadays, in
a fog which only lifts when a character
happens to say something to indicate that
the murder took place in (say) Calcutta,
and not in New York as the voices of the
players might imply. This Showman has an
idea that, if it were not for the necessity of
advertising the man at the Great Wurlitzer,
the talkies would cli&f mse with programmes
altogether.
1915.
1930.
FIFTEEN YEARS AFTER AND STILL GAME.


m
m
ESTABLISHED 1918
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD
J. R. KIRK, Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand).
Total Assets exceed . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sue. assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) la the event of loss of eye or limb through aceiaent, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately*
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost evcny contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN'S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications -for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
, " GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manatrer.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Belle of New York”
Criterion “Journey’s End”
Royal ..' “The Hawk”
State Movies and Talkies
Town Hall Backhaus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “The Merry Widow”
New Comedy “Romance”
King’s “Love Lies”
Hoyt’s Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
Nothing takes the conceit out of a man
like a good honest giant. Half a one would
take it out of a great actor. A whole one
might take it out of an Australian artist.
Sydney Show wins another disciple for
Marie Stones.
Two of them might take it out of a prima
donna or even a visiting golfer.
The test could easily be made. A pair
of them, doughty specimens, one from the
■wilds of North China, the other from the
mighty fastnesses of Hollywood, are to-day
in captivity at Sydney Showground. There
they stand, or sit. It makes no difference;
they look down on you either way, “How
is St. Peter looking this morning?” you ask
- —under your breath. The forked mountain
answers nothing. He just towers there above
you, tremendous, supreme and bored stiff.
Outside, along the labyrinthine ways, Dave
bends down and fastens his eyes on a secre-
tive peepshow, seductively labelled “Paris.”
Mum drags Dad into the furniture stands,
and Dad drags Mum out of them. A busker
with Darlinghurst written all over him is
Spaniard for an hour. His louse-ladders
have grown overnight. His music has not.
His fingers strum upon a ukulele, and all
the air is sweet with the silence of it. There
he is; Romance personified; Rudolph resur-
rected ; a miracle with a yellow towel round
its head.
A trained pig genteelly toots a horn; a
pig not so well trained elbows you in the
ribs. People who don’t know you from
Mahomet talk to you as eagerly as if they'd
just backed a winner. Dogs yap at you
from the doghouse, fowls shrill from the fowl-
house ; and absurd little engines go for the
lick of their lives doing nothing but .spit
and snort. Girls with lovely eyes ogle you
with strictly business intent, and the North
Coast produce exhibit makes you poke out
“Oh, Dad, how could you?”
your chest and say “We’ve won again !” and
makes the other fellow not poke it out and
say “They always give the prize to that
crowd !”
The ring is full of gods and goddesses on
horseback, and the great pavilion is full of
apples and pumpkins and piemelons and eggs
and bacon and honey and green bananas.
The booths are full of beer, and not only
the booths. The air is full of hustle and
small talk and gurgles. The small fry are
full of fairy foam, and the sample choco-
late you ate keeps on coming up and going
down like a lift. You hear the snake lady
chatting like any other woman, and Shar-
man’s burly crew stand up in their red and
green tights and dressing-gowns and boxing-
gloves and talk fight. A megaphone invites
you to enjoy the happy spectacle of Char-
lotte Corday’s decapitation, and an oppo-
sition show tries sex-appeal with a magic
ray which strips off a lady’s clothes bit by
bit (on the poster) until nothing is left but
her bare skeleton. Loud-speakers of all
sexes and none shout at you, and you slap
a chap on the back and say, “Down for the
Show?” and he puts out a hand with the
warts dtill on it and says, “What about a
taste?” And Segrave’s Golden Arrow, which
isn’t a car but a poem with an engine in
it, makes you feel glad for being sixpence
poorer. And the cattle are sleek and shiny
in their bedded stalls, and the horses fly the
hurdles like bridled eagles, and the axemen
lift out chips as big as Webster’s Dictionary,
and any girl you care to offer a carnation
will have the politeness to accept it. In
fact, everything is big and expansive, like
a giant.
You must get back to giants. One of them
gives you his visiting-card. In his hands it
is ordinary enough; in yours it is as big as
a painting by Mr. Lister Lister. He invites
you up on to the platform beside him, and
puts a ring on his finger. He does not want
it there; he only wants to take it off agaiu
and show you how a two-shilling piece will
fall through it. It is such a friendly thing
for him to do that you venture to suggest
that he ought to tackle Camera. “Camera,”
he says, not proudly, but merely stating a
fact; “Camera is not a giant, of course.
He is only a big man.” As you leave, he
tells you that if ever you’re in Hollywood
he’d be glad to renew acquaintance
“Just ask for Tiny.” He is bored; but, unlike
his Chinese rival in the other tent, he takes
kindly to captivity. His tent is his drawing-
room, and you are his guest.
The other tent is a Manchurian urta.
You go into it, and a cold wind hits you
from the north. The lord of the urta looks
down on you wfith unveiled contempt. His
horse’s face curves in a sneer. He invites
you nowhere, but to be gone and leave him
in his icy solitude. Perhaps if your luck
is in he may smile, and he has been known
to groan quite affably and count up to eight.
But ordinarily he has no parlor tricks; he
just stands and glooms down at you over a
jutting chin, square cut out of something
A jriendly invitation the artist declined.
that looks like yellow granite. He. is for-
bidding as a crag. You stand there,’ feeling
in your pocket for a bean-seed, and presently
slink out and go over to recover your shrun-
ken ego at the generous lap of the Fat Lady.
You may even recover enough of it to walk
out singing
A giant’s life is not a happy one,
Happy one;
A giant’s life is not a happy one.
You may add “Thank God” by way of
heartfelt addendum to Gilbert and Sullivan ;
but when you have coiled up for the night,
and the whole hurly-burly of it is whirling
you round in the maelstrom of a nightmare,
you’ll be lucky if you don’t hear the rumble
of “Fee-fi-fo-fum !”—ten thousand times more
horrific for being uttered in some barbarous
Chinese dialect. •
But it is not such a bad dream. You can
always slide dow T n the beanstalk and grab
the axe off the woodheap and tear in for
your life. And at once, because the whole
Show is a seething dream, the axe is being
swung by someone else, and you are stand-
ing off singing out, “Go it, Leo!” And the
beanstalk .is a length of blackbutt, with old
Leo Appo swinging the axe like the great
axeman he is. Old Leo! The “old” is not
only a term of friendship, alas! He was
swinging an axe when you were a boy, up
on the Tweed. He used to help you to
get bees’ nests on Sundays. Once in a chop
when he was doing his marvellous twist on
the log (the last blow* in the first scarf, a
lightning leap and turn in the air, and the
axe down and into the wood on the other
side before his feet were planted) he missed
and hit his foot, and they said he was done
for ever. That was —good heavens ! it was
20 years ago, and he is still at it, his bronze
Maori face familiar as the show itself.
Frith, who has been at your side making
his forked-lightning sketches in a writing-
pad, has suddenly vanished. Then you
remember. He said he wanted to go back
and see the Fat Lady because he had an
idea that he had met her in Japan. Well,
he has gone to see his Fat Lady; and still
the Show goes on, oblivious of this romance,
being, of course, so much a mad-hatted
romance itself; a Gargantuan comedy, fresh
“Look out he don’t walk on you!”
and clean and wholesome as the Bush from
which it mostly springs, and of which it
largely smells.
* * *
Nellie Stewart rushed upon the Melbourne
Comedy stage on Saturday in the vehicle
of “Romance” and with the ashes of romance
about her. Her achievement was physically
and sometimes artistically impressive. She
waltzed through the part of Margherita
Cavallini with unflagging vigor, and looked
as fresh as a daisy at the finish. The play-
wright, Edward Sheldon, is a long-winded
platitudinist. If he had gone in for music
he would have composed for the bagpipes.
Some of the speeches he put into the mouth
of Cavallini are Shakspearean in their
length, if not in their intelligence. They
presented no serious obstacle to an artiste
who 30 years ago performed the astounding
feat of singing Marguerite for 28 consecu-
tive nights at the Princess.
At one point the performance reached
great heights of conviction. That was where
Mayne Lynton, as the Rev. Armstrong,
flapped his black skirts, vulture-like, round
the astonished and shrinking prima donna
and expounded with gleaming eyes his amaz-
ing: argument that it was the lady’s Chris-
tian duty to give up having any further
lovers and go into a nunnery to spare him
the pangs of highly unchristian jealousy.
Lynton’s performance here was of the high-
est order. It lifted a turgid and old-
fashioned melodrama into the realms of
sound psychological drama, where it seemed
to join hands with Anatole France’s “Thais,”
if only for a moment. Otherwise the char-
acter is a mixture of Mercia in “The Sign
of the Cross” and John Storm in “The
Christian.” When Lynton gets the chance
he is a good artist. Another fine achieve-
ment was that of Nancye Stewart, In fact,
the evening was a domestic triumph. Nancye
appeared in the prologue as an emancipated
Champion prime Darlinghurst Spaniard.
modern miss and later as the old Italian
servant in attendance on Cavallini. The
latter was a masterpiece of both make-up
and characterisation. It held the audience
spellbound. None of the others mattered
much, though Sydney Stirling presented a
Cornelius Van Tuyl full of dignity and noble
sentiment.
In the unexhilarating business of chas g
its own tail for the public amusement
legitimate stage occasionally throws ou
spark of something suspiciously resemn i s
originality. Of such is George M. Conans
“Baby Cyclone,” staged by Gregan McMahon
at Melbourne Bijou on - Saturday. £»
matter of writing farce this Cohan knows
his onions better than any other American
confector of comedy, tl'e knows, more than
to trip up the feet of his action with super-
fluous sentiment. The story of how the
dog-love of_ their women nearly ruined tlie
domestic happiness of two men of different
social conditions starts with a punch in the
eye and continues to rain- blows on the
funny-bone of an audience to the finish.
The producing was first-rate and the cast-
ing excellent. Compton Coutts gave to two
small parts a great importance. This gentle-
man can express one meaning with a flicker
of an eyelash while his hands, are simultam
eously conveying something quite different
with a gesture. His art would repay study
on the part of aspiring amateurs. I rank
O’Brian, fresh from London, gave engaging
significance to the emotions of Jim Hurley,
a vulgar but decent person distracted hy his
wife’s devotion for pet poodles. Lucille
Lisle contributed a delightful study of one
caninely infatuated creature, which Molhe
Brennan seconded with another. Norman
Wister conveyed the emotions of an alarmed
fiance, P. L. Julian supplied an admirable
satire on the medical bedside manner, Guy
Hastings was a capable policeman, Leonard
Stephens and Leal Douglas were equal to
their job as a spare husband and wife, but
Eric Donald provided no justification for
being an inebriated liftman. The co.
McMahon has now got together should be
good for a prolonged offensive if it is pro-
vided with suitable ammunition.
At Sydney Town ITall on Saturday night
Christian Hellemann piloted the Professional
Musicians through what, for them, w T as a
rather light programme. Boellmann’s
“Dialogue Fantasia” and some excerpts from
Tschaikowsky’s “Lake of Swans” suite were
the toughest numbers and showed evidences
of hasty rehearsal. The big successes of the
“Now ij y’ love me, Dave, you’ll buy it.”
evening were au elaborate organ-cum-orches-
tra arrangement of Handel's best-known
Largo and a dashing performance of the
“Blue. Danube” waltzes. In the Largo, as in
the Boellmann fantasia, Hellemann deserted
the conductor’s desk for . the stool of ■ the
great organ, which isn’t often heard these
days. He piled Pelion on Ossa in the long-
drawn crescendo of the Handel air, until
nervous people glanced apprehensively to see
if the walls were cracking.
# #
At Adelaide Royal, “Lombardi, Ltd.” is
just replacing Allan Wilkie, who had a good
season, though not such a triumph as in
Melbourne.
* * *
A change has occurred in “The Maid of
the Mountains” at Melb. Royal during its
last moments, Sydney girl Vera Spaull taking
the place.of Madge Aubrey, the English actress.
Miss Spaull gives sprightliness and a part that
calls for it. Merry Widow Moncrieff will
commence philandering on Saturday. Arthur
Stigant will greet Baron Popoff like an old
friend, and Michael Cole will make his first
acquaintance with Prince Danilo.
“F.S.”: Luxuries are the first to go in
times like these, and art is regarded as a
luxury by most people. One of our leading
painters, who last year cleared £l5OO from his
show, this year scored a mere £4OO. Another,
whose work is less in popular demand, made
£2O above expenses for a year’s hard work.
The result is that most artists have become
teachers. The supply of. students is inex-
haustible. Presumably they have confidence
in the country’s future. A Melbourne mil-
lionaire, who manufactures a patent remedy
has long been the mainstay of several
painters, but this year he announces that
he has ceased buying altogether. Yet he
gave, they grumble, £lO,OOO to the prohibition
funds, and the idiotic referendum was an
unpardonable luxury.


When you come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher’s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike,
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
H ed and
Breakfast
Tariff
,f faired
Special tarifl or inclusive terms.
6
HOTEL
e
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
’Phone 86511 (.10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel.” Svdnev
HOW MANY TIMES ?
How many times have you promised someone near and dear
that you would, for a mutual purpose, save your money?
How many times have you promised yourself that the next big
opportunity would find you prepared?
How many times have you admitted the wisdom of saving habits
and then left the other fellow to do the saving?
Does it mean anything to you that in Australia there are several
million other fellows steadily saving their spare cash and beating you
to the big opportunity?
Take a Savings Account into partnership—profit is assured.
Cbmonwealtl) Savings Bank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
PLAIN AS A
PIKESTAFF
<r
A
yb
are the duplicates pro-
duced with a'Mephisto*
Copying Pencil.
It lasts much longer
and writes much
smoother without
heavy pressure.
Medium, Hard and
Extra Hard Degrees.
THE POPULAR
~ COPYING PENCILS
Also in 8 colours ‘or checking, etc.
brom alt Stationers, etc.
li. & C. HARDTMUTH. of “KOH-I-NOOR" 'Pencil fam*
London Office—2*l. Kingsway, W.C.2
Austra ian Representative—
JOHN MACDOUGAf.L, P. O. Box 165. SYPNEY.
ABORICINALITIES
MADE
THE OUALITY
KIWI
AUSTRALIA
POLISM
“Brusher”: Bill had a job with a squatter,
but he didn’t like it, so he found another.
Unfortunately he was under agreement with
his old boss to give a month’s notice. The
only way he could crawl out of it was to get
the sack. He did everything as badly as
he could, but the squatter forgave him.
Then one day he asked Bill if he thought he
had enough brains to go out to the back
paddock and liang a gate. Bill put tlie
gate in the dray and went off with it.
Inside half an hour the boss _ saw him
coming back and went to meet him. “Did
you hang that gate?” he demanded. “No,
boss, I didn’t. I couldn’t see the sense of gom’
right out there to hang the dam’ thing, so
I took it down to the waterhole and drowned
it.” Next day he was working for his new
employer.
$ * * *
“A.V.W.”: We w'ere discussing ship-
wrecks on the coasts of the Shivery Isles
when someone mentioned the Elingamite.
Scotty sat up with a jerk. “I mind it fine,”
he said. “I was at the Riccarton races
aboot a month after, and they were goin’
aroond wi’ collection-boxes. Ma brither
Alec had a poond on a horse that won and
paid a liunner an’ one poonds foorteen shil-
lin’s an’ ninepence, an’ he pit the whole nine-
pence i’ the box.” And Scotty glared round
the room with a look that said, “Would ye
call the Scots tight-fisted after that?”
* -t: * *
“Ostrich” : MeShanks was close and canny,
but he once met his match. The new hand,
a stolid cai;roty-headed giant from Lanca
shire, had arrived overnight, and MeShanks
had him out a*t four next morning. Choom
put away a good breakfast, and then Me-
Shanks suggested “We shan’t be near the
house to-day. Suppose we have dinner now
and get it over?” Choom promptly sat down
again - and crammed a little more into the
odd corners. MeShanks added “Of coorse, if
ye. like to stow away yer tea as well, ye can.
Tliere’s plenty there.” By superhuman efforts
Choom dealt with a little more, and then
rose, slacking off his belt. “Now get the
horses ready,” MeShanks directed. Choom
ponderously shook his head. “Ah’m off,” he
explained. “Ah doan’t loike the grub here!”
* * * #
“Dimon”: A small footnote was added to
the vast subject of the dynamics of donkeys
by a W. Q’land carrier. He had a team
of long-eared tractors drawing a big load
of store goods for a border station, and got
stuck in a wide patch of loose sand. The
top part of his cargo was flour, in 501 b.
bags, and it was plain that he would have
to unload it. But instead of dumping it on
the sand, whence lie would have had to
carry it a considerable distance afterwards
to firm ground, lie put one bag on the back
of each of the donkeys. Then he started the
team, and the donks. with their packs easily
pulled out the lightened waggon.
INTRODUCING HIM TO THE LOCAL FAUNA.
THE TOURIST: “I wondah if theah is anything in the natuah of youah calling that
produces creachas with legs like that?”
COUSIN JACK: “Yes, and I tell’ee thee’st better be careful — ’e do be what we do call a
bandicoot.”
CORRECTED.
“Hullo, Daylight, sweeping the woolshed out, eh?”
“No, Boss, only the dirt.”
“Eureka”: Ghoom came to me and asked
for a job. When he told me that he had
been working for old Tim Maloney I was
a bit dubious about putting him on, as I
knew that a mall would have to commit
murder before old Tim would give him the
sack. “Why did Maloney sack you?” I
asked. _ “E’ didn’t, zur. I left. It were
like this. The old cow died about a month
ago, and we ’ad cow-beef for a week. We
’ad it fresh as chops, steak, roasts and even
the tripe, and what was left was salted
down. The next week the old sow died, and
we ’ad pork for a week.” Here he paused,
so I said : “Well, I suppose it was all good
meat, otherwise Maloney wouldn’t have
given it to you.” “Oh, yes, zur; it was all
right,” replied Choom earnestly. “But yester-
day Maloney’s old grandmother died.”
* * * *
“Shock”: “Murkah” (B. 2/4/’3O), in
demonstrating that I was right in doubting
the prof, who said there wasn’t enough
power in a lightning flash to run a sewing-
machine, affords evidence that I was wrong
and the prof, was right. “Murkah” says
a mile-long flash, lasting one-tliousandth of
a second, develops 40,000h.p. A horse-power
is the energy required to lift 33,0001 b. in one
minute. On this basis 40,CC0h.p. exerted
for.only one-thousandth of a second shrinks
to one-ninetieth of a horse-power, which
certainly would not run a sewing-machine.
❖ # He ❖
“Dr. Mivart”: The strains whereby
woman derives part of her nature from the
cat have never been traced by the evolu-
tionary physiologists. The connection has
recognition in the idiom of all nations that
have had opportunities of observing the cat.
They have noticed a certain spitefulness, or
less definitely an aloofness, unmistakable in
its similarity. In the case of nations where the
cat has had large opportunities of studying
the’ woman, important modifications in its
characteristics ' have resulted. In the case
of the French grey variety, the results of the
association are manifested in an exaggerated
exhibition of affection and a tendency to
hysteria.. Take the case of my specimen
No. 43, called by me, as a palliative to his
feelings, Claude Melnotte. He came into my
possession at the age of two weeks, and
loved me much harder than such a tiny
frame could stand. When I was absent he
remained, pining, on a pergola under which
he knew I would pass, and leaped on my
shoulder as soon as I appeared, after a
vigil of perhaps seven or eight hours, during
which he took no sustenance. When No.
44, termed by me Boadicea, entered my house-
hold and claimed some of my attention,
Claude began to have fits of hysteria. In the
last and most violent of these he five times
ran up the curtains and tumbled from the
curtain-pole, expiring after the fifth fall. I
reciprocated the poor little creature’s affec-
tion, and after 40 years still deeply regret
the tactlessness on my part that led to his
demise.
'*•
“Gouger”: H’ere’s a tip for the Sydney
Museum authorities; they have just secured
some aboriginal stone axes from Emu Plains.
Well, up in Torres Strait there still lives old
Maino, last mamoose of Tutu and Yani.
He is son of the famous Kebisu, chief of
all the Strait, and Maino’s most prized pos-
session is the old man-killer’s cldb. This
gubba-gubba is the most famous in native
annals. It has killed (or rather stunned,
as a preliminary to death) numerous men.
The head is of stone, disc shaped. Old
Maino loves to run over the tally of the
victims. The one man who might be able
to secure the club for the Museum on
Maino’s passing, and meanwhile get its
authentic history, is The Bulletin’s good
friend W. Macfarlane, Anglican missionary
in the Strait, who is well liked by the
natives, and has more of their confidence
than any other living man.
* * * *
“Pomegranate”: One of my early bosses,
a far-out selector in southern Riverima,
hated above all things to kill a sheep for
mutton. He trapped rabbits and he snared
wallaby for the meathook, and when this
game grew scarce he strung out the interval
between bunny and sheep to the last possible
moment. At last, after a long lean period
in which we had got down to boiled wheat and
water sago thrice a day, he reluctantly ran
down a runt ram stag about as big as a
fox, and, with tears in his eyes, handed it
to me for dispatch. He and the missus had
been called away, so he told me after killing
to cook a small quantity of mutton for tia
and to salt the rest. I ate all I could
compass in the form of fried chops and
boiled the remainder —“there wasn’t goin’
to be no rest!” One of the most poignant
threnodies I’ have ever heard was that sung
by the boss and his wife when they came
home and saw tha<- mighty dish of boiled
mutton. But at least we had a fill of
meat for a day or two.
(Continued on page 21.)
BROKE TO THE WIDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
The nights are so dreary and lonely,
And the long days seem to drag
As you pad your endless way along
With the quart-Rot and the swag;
The tucker-ba*g bangin' empty
Around by the breeze is swirled;
So you head for a town and company—
You are broke to the wide, wide world.
For there’s always some who have got a word
To say to the likes of you,
And maybe some understandin’ cove
Will buy you a beer or two,
Till the flamin’ sergeant chats your ear
And back on the track you’re burled ;
You see, you lower the tone of a place
When you’re broke to the Avide, wide
world.
So he shunts you off on the, rounds again,
To try and battle your way
By pitchin’ a tale at any old place
You strike at the close of day.
They’ll feed you at some, but just as oft
Hard words at your pleas are hurled,
And the dog who snarls at you seems to
know
That you’re broke to the wide, wide world.
Still—heads up! the luck may change some
day,
And a bloke’ll make his pile,
Then settle down with a home and wife
And a steady job the while.
And maybe there’ll be some evenin’
A kid on the ’earthrug curled,
Who’ll laugh to hear of the days when Dad
Was broke to the wide, wide world.
N.S.W.
J.A.ELLIS.


mm-.
:*mm
: ■ .
3SU*
ess
«;«s
f&Pi
9KW
.
aw
<*C f,p »'k-*V-
•e*3\
kssasg^^
*V*
V*J*‘>?>l
VhST
&T
S/E^
sS*ffSS6§?i%i§fe
"iK
:**-
SsfeSSS
f •'N
U*4
&3g
\
m
V-V*
','■ mi
> s '-s-v
*-v's
V»^
£ss
:,m
t
iW**
WKPfc
HVjgAPNMJ
»*.»V4.Y<
VV
;*fcS3£
»T f «W
: *X<i
Sfe&rC
/*
'*m£&
ir 3,
*ri
S«*. v *
5P
\>2
•>*«s
**•
jS
&
/>»
,y*
•>
Investment
that holds against
financial tides/
The Security of a Bank
but a higher rate of
interest than a Bank
has ever offered to
depositors
6% monthly interest
on current accounts
£5 only required to open this account.
Practically all investment plans which credit or pay interest
monthly require much larger initial payments than £5.
Add any amount at any time.
This is advisable for those who do not wish to contract
to invest a definite amount at stated intervals, and especially
attractive for the business or professional man whose income
is received in odd amounts at irregular intervals.
No discounts, no charges.
No charge is made to open this account, and no part of
the principal or interest is discounted when withdrawn.
To-day’s need is for a safe investment that will return a substantial income.
Bank interest is sure enough but not sufficient. Among the dangerous tides
of finance to-day the Merron Estate, Ltd., stands out like a solid rock of
security. Its business is built on the soundest form of finance in existence
the advancing of money against approved securities.
Your money, no matter how much or how little, is secured by loans on
solid securities made on conservative valuations by men of expert capacity
and judgment.
COMPLETE PROTECTION AGAINST LOSS.
No money is advanced without ample security. Moreover, the securities
themselves are insured against loss, destruction or default. Also, the Share
Capital of the Company is a substantial guarantee to investors.
You can place your money in our hands for safe and wise invest-
ment and be assured of a guaranteed return of 10 per cent. This
is a higher rate of interest than any bank has yet offered .
Call in and talk it over or write for details. This is the
SAFE way to make your money earn profit for you.
THE MERRON ESTATE, LIMITED
Deposit and Investment Company
11 Martin Place
(next door to Com-
monwealth Bank),
Sydney.


f. ?'
r >
m
I.
The
Rabbit
may have good cause for
dejection owing to the
label he sees. But the
Skin
Owner
has
a different viewpoint. He wants top values for his
consignments. He knows that the use of a Wineh-
combe Carson, label results in the realisation of that
objective. For highest market prices
CONSIGN RABBIT, FOX AND OTHER SKINS TO
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
SALESMEN. LTD.
Winchcombe House, or 99-101 Eaele St.,
Bridge St., Sydney, Brisbane.
VICHY
EQESIEO
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SEASONS MAY COME and
SEASONS MAY GO-
But the holiday appeal of
Mt. Buffalo
National Park
never varies.
Spring, summer, autumn and winter
alike, the mountain scenery is the
finest in Australia, just as the Gov-
ernment Chalet is the finest holiday-
house in Australia.
Consult the
Government Tourist Bureaux,
Queen’s Walk, Melbourne, or
Martin Place, Sydney.
“Double Express”: The Goulburn
(N.S.W.) district is interested in recent
sheep casualties, the cause of which has
puzzled investigators. Groups of dead sheep
literally torn into fragments have been found.
No dog could have done the work, and there
is a growing suspicion that a leopard which
escaped into the bush in the district over
WILD RABBITO!
The nightmare she had the night after she first wore her new
Bunny Coat.
a year ago is responsible. Indications are
all in favor of the theory. The leopard
often kills for sheer love of slaying. Though
much smaller than his two big cousins,
Spots is the most dreaded by big-game shots
of all the big cats. Unlike the lion and
tiger, who work with a direct knock-out in
most cases, the leopard goes for the throat
of any sizable victim, and, hanging on there,
disembowels his antagonist with his hind
claws. Upright man is peculiarly vulnerable
to this form of attack, which, if successful,
gives him no chance of recovery.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: The “agile gibbon,” the pet
monkey of Adelaide Zoo, has been literally
killed by kindness. A post-mortem shows that
peanuts did it. Large notices begged the
public not to feed him, and close wire-netting
prevented anything being thrown; but some-
one must have climbed up and thrown the
SUITED HIM EXACTLY.
MRS.HASH: "The person that had this room owed me six months’ rent, so I kicked
him out.”
MR. FITZIRVING: “Very reasonable, Madam. It will do me nicely on the same terms.”
nuts in. The banana-fed and notoriously
delicate gibbon was dead within a day.
* *
“Larrapinta”: Inspector John Ahearn, of
the Q’land police, wa<s better known as
Jacky-Jacky, from the fact that a black-
tracker of that
name assisted him
to make captures
of men who had
taken to the bush.
When they got
near a camp Jacky-
Jacky would re-
move all his
clothes, and, leav-
ing the inspector
to wait, he would
approach the camp
slowly, with a
coo-ee at intervals,
just as if he were
a Myall black.
When the campers
demanded to know
what he wanted he
would say “Plenty
young pfella lubra
belongem me sit
down longa bush.
You gibit • ’bacca,
mine bringem
’long.” It never
failed to work; if
Jacky-Jacky didn’t
recognise the
campers as the
wanted men he
wouldn’t return to
them, but if they
were the men
Ahearn was after, Ahearn got them.
* # * *
“Raja”: In the Sydney Municipal Library
I found a copy of Favenc’s “History of
Australian Exploration,” inscribed on the
fly-leaf by Edward C. Merewether, June,
1888. On the back of a map I found this:
“There are prospectors’ trips in W.A. that
for accomplishment with scanty equipment
outdo all these mentioned. The writer of
this pushed a barrow and swagged it from
Port Darwin to Boulder City in 1897. On
one stretch his only water was chewing pig-
face for 11 days.” I heard the same story
in Darwin, but details were vague. The
statement takes a lot of believing. Who was
Merewether, anyway?
* * *■ *
“F.Y.7.”: As everyone who has lived with
her knows, Matilda makes one acquainted
with strange bed-places—none stranger than
that chosen by a hapless Queensland swaggie
at Ipswich in Bananaland recently. A
shunter in the railway yards noted the
unusual spectacle of a man being dragged
along the sleepers under a link of waggons.
Investigation showed that the sundowner
had unrolled his swag under a waggon and
piped off. When the shunt started he was
caught by a hook and badly knocked about
during his involuntary journey. His unrolled
swag remained in status quo between the
rails, but his faithful billy, which he had
hung on to another hook under the car, still
dangled above him when the ambulance
collected him.
* # * *
“Carrick, A. 8.”: Lunar rainbows are a
common sight in the doldrums. In this
region of calms and thunder-showers a
ship will ,be in a
torrential rain one
minute and bathed
in moonlight the
next. As the squall
slowly drifts away
a beautiful • arch
spans the curtain
of rain. One picture
of the sort stands
out. The old wind-
jammer shone in
the tropic moon-'
light like a vivid
etching. Every idle
sail was a sheet of
gleaming silver
framed in shadows
of ebony, sharp and
clear, and every
cord of standing
and running gear
stood out like an
iridoscent-edged rod
of silver. Water-
drops falling from
aloft flashed like
diamonds, while
down to lee’ard
the huge, anvil-
shaped thunder-
cloud which had
just drenched the
ship showed as an
inky mass edged
with silvery fire.
An arch of ghostly rainbow framed the
scene. There isn’t an artist on earth would
dare to paint it.
* * * *
“S.S.S.” : Hanuabada (Papua) headquarters
was perturbed. Bi-ari. the big Mombare
corporal of the Armed Native Constabulary,
had casually mentioned to the Orokola ser-
geant that he would certainly die at sunrise
on Saturday. When the Commandant got word
of it he was annoyed. There was no earthly
reason why Bi-ari should die. He was sound
in wind and limb. Besides, the annual cricket
match Police versus Public Works was billed
for 2 p.m. on Saturday, and Bi-ari was the
star bowler of the Police side. So the Comman-
dant rang up the Native Hospital. “Sure!”
said the perfectly new young doctor from
Sydney. “Send him round and I’ll put a
stop to this dam’ dying stunt!’’ Bi-ari with
his friend the Orokola sergeant strode into
the hospital. The young medico sounded and
pounded the patient. Nothing the matter.
But, just to take Bi-ari’s mind oft' it, he
prescribed strong medicines and we put on
a special orderly to yarn with him and play
at cards. Bi-ari, who had never again
mentioned his approaching demise, slept
soundly all Friday night. When he waked
at daybreak the head orderly manoeuvred it
so that his back would be to the east.
Bi-ari was drinking a mug of hot cocoa as
the sun rose, and it got spilt when he fell
back dead. The post-mortem showed noth-
ing. The Orokola sergeant said Bi-ari died
because his brother would not give old
Sevavi, the pourri-pourri man of his village,
500 miles away, an a*rmshell he coveted.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: Old Paddy Burke, the
storekeeper at Wombat Creek, was busy
settling accounts with Hi Yah, the local
market gardener, when Soogee Bagh, the
hawker, dropped in and gave his order.
“Please, Mister, you give-it-to-me one tin
streego.” For a minute or two Hi regarded
the pilgrim from India’s coral strand as he
might some new and interesting specimen
of the animal kingdom, and then demanded
with much asperity: “Hey! what you tock
abou’ ? Stleego—stleego! Whaffor ’ you no
say tleaco?” “Gwan outa that now, wid
yure straygo an’ yure tlayco,” interposed
Paddy as he reached for a tin of bullbcky’s
joy. “If ye haythin divils wor as quick at
pickin’ up white man’s talk as ye are at
sht’alin’ his bit av thrade, ye would well
know that the wurrud is t-r-e-y-k-i-I—thraycle
—so ye wud.”
* * * *
“Hayband”: A dream that faded was the
idea that artesian-bore pressures in Aus-
tralia, which in some cases are very heavy,
could be utilised as a source of energy on
farm and station. Since bores in some cases
registered an uplift of 1571 b. to the sq. in.
at the mouth, the hope looked reasonable.
But the only way to take advantage of this
pressure is to cap the outlet-pipe, and as the
drilled hole must be appreciably larger than
the casing, there is seepage to such an
extent that experiments are discouraged.
♦ V 4* 4*
“Uramao”: In North Otago (M.L.), at
a time when cross-country hunting was
popular, hares were unobtainable and cats
were requisitioned. The Master of the Hunt,
who had imported beagles, so keen was he on
the sport, gave word for the release of the
first cat. The wild-eyed Tom, on sighting and
hearing the yelping pack, reckoned the tail
of the Master’s mount was the safest refuge
and clawed its way up the horse’s flanks,
along its back and on to the Master’s
shoulders. The horse, feeling the claws,
bolted with the pack in full cry. Hunting
isn’t as popular in those parts now as it
used to be.
SHE GUESSED IT.
DAVE (on first city visit) : “Gee, that bloke’s takin’ome a lot of
fruit.”
SARAH: “Yes, Dave. I suppose his wife must be going to make
jam.”
“Sigs” : The other night a fly lobbed into
our sugar-basin and two small ginger ants
stepped off it and bogged in to the tucker.
When the fly left they were too busy to
notice its departure. We stood the basin
in a soup-plate of water and left the lid
off. Next morning there were four ants.
Later on they were all missing—gone joy-
riding on flies, I suppose.
ADVENTURERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The shearing crew for Angledool
Are on the Nor’-West Mail;
There’s “dosser” hums and other bums
And seamen sick of sail;
Old rouseabouts and shearing men
Talk gruffly through the smoke
Of burry wool, of combs that pull
And last year’s ringer bloke.
While rolling on to Angledool
A kid he said to me:
“I leant to roam , I’m sick of home,
The world I’m out to see.”
There’s city youths with cowboy hats
And gleaming tliirty-twos;
And dirty cooks that look like crooks
And talk of mutton stews;
While up above the nodding heads
The racks are slightly bent
With weight of bags and bulging swags
That fill up every vent.
While rolling on to Angledool
A crook he said to me:
“If I had stayed I would have paid
For topping-off Wong Key.”
When at the railhead someone cries
“All out—Pocketaroo !”
A pile of swags and local wags
Torment the shearing crew.
They curse and smoke and mill around,
Then moon and mope about,
Till nigger bucks with station trucks
Roar up and take them out.
While rolling on to Angledool
A man he said to me:
“/ left the fool in Liverpool
And now I’m running free.”
We’re coming back from Angledool,
We’ve bought out all the shops,
The carriage floor right to the door
Is paved with beer-tops.
With floppy hats go rusty guns,
The cook’s a rolling fool,
There’s songs and cheques and beery wrecks
Right down from Angledool.
When rolling hack from Angledool
The kid he said to me:
“/ think this game is too damn tame,
I’m gonna try the sea.”
N.s.w.
CECIL HARRISON.


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydney!
liberal advances if
required.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET.
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
TRAVEL IN COMFORT
with a
VICARS ALL-WOOL
TRAVELLING RUG
These Rugs are of the same high quality as
VICARS’ WORSTED SUITINGS
Manufactured by—
JOHN VICARS & CO., LIMITED,
MARRICKVILLE, N.S.W.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service nl® Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
A
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CBPARK & CASTLERACH SIS SYDNEY
BETTER LAMBING RETURNS.
“Lucerne Flea”: Many farmers who keep
sheep in a small way are content with an
(SO per cent, lambing return. No stud flock-
master would be satisfied with that. A
careful record of the date of mating should
be kept, and a few days before the first
lambs are due to be dropped the ewes
should be brought into a paddock close to
the homestead where feed has been saved
for this emergency. If it is necessary to
supplement grass with chaff, use one of
those labor-saving feeders which any handy-
man can build. They only need filling with
chaff once a week, and don’t forget to put
out licks containing Epsom sa*lts to prevent
the dry feed constipating the ewes.
A dog which is restless and barks a lot
at night is very handy at this time to
scare away foxes. Chain him to the fence
with a kennel for shelter, but never leave
him in the same spot two nights running.
Get the ewes used to being looked over by
quietly rounding them up at intervals. A
couple of pet lambs help to quieten a flock.
As soon as the lambing starts, suspect
every ewe of having had twins, and look
for a second lamb. Neglected ones are far
easier to discover from the back of a horse
than on foot. Look at the flock twice daily,
and when you spot a lamb whose mother
cannot be found, carry it home and bottle-
feed it. It may be only a few hours before
you get a chance to foster-mother it. And
don’t be too ready to knock weak, under-
sized lambs on the head, for a lot of these
little “staggering Bobs” pick up in an
astonishing way after a few bottle-feeds of
warm milk and a spell in a bag-lined box
in a warm spot.
As soon as you find a ewe standing by a
dead lamb foster one of the bottle-fed orphans
on her. To do this, skin the dead lamb, tie
the skin on the orphan with a few bits
of twine, and let it go. Then you have
a ewe with an udder uncomfortably full of
milk, a hungry lamb which smells O.lv. to
her and nature does the rest. Remove the
skin next day. In the case where a ewe —•
usually a young one—takes no interest in
her dead lamb, put her in a pen, take a
hungry orphan, shove it with her, milk the
ewe into the palm of your hand, rub the
milk over the lamb, and leave them alone for
a few hours. If at the end of that time she
still refuses to let the lamb suck, jamb her
against the fence with your knee and let the
lamb have a good drink. When the milk
has passed through the lamb’s digestive tract
you’ll have no more trouble witli that pair.
Don’t be too ready to draft out the ewes
with the older lambs —wait until the lambs
reach the stage where they frisk and play
all day long. It is then fairly sa<fe to
put them into another paddock, for foxes
and crows usually prefer weak and
- undeveloped prey.
WHEAT VARIETIES FOR VICTORIA.
In a “Grow More Wheat” number of its
monthly “Journal,” the Vic. Department of
Agriculture recommends the varieties men-
tioned hereunder to farmers in different parts
of the State’s wheatbelt. The recommen-
dation may be interestingly compared with
those given from other States by contribu-
tors to a recent Bulletin controversy: —
Newer Mallee. —Yandilla King, Currawa, Ranee,
Rajah, Sepoy, Free Gallipoli, Mac’s White, Bald
Early, Joffre, Penny, Early Gluyas, Waratah.
Older Mallee. —Free Gallipoli, Ranee, Rajah, Sepoy,
Currawa, Federation, Joffre, Penny, Nizam, Nabawa.
Wimmera. —Federation, Free Gallipoli, Nizam,
Wannon, Huff’s Imperial, Rajah, Penny.
Goulburn Valley.—Free Gallipoli, Major, Federa-
tion, Sepoy, Ranee, Nizam, Joffre, Yandilla King,
Bald Early, Nabawa, Minister.
North-east.—Free Gallipoli, Major, Turvey, Federa-
tion, Joffre, Nizam, Waratah.
North Central. —Free Gallipoli, Federation, Ranee,
Major, Turvey, Ranee, Currawa, Penny, Nizam,
Yandilla King.
Central. —Mogul, Free Gallipoli, Ghurka, Major,
Currawa, Turvey, Federation, Yandilla King.
Western Plains. —Ghurka, Free Gallipoli, Federation,
Sepoy, Major, Nizam, Yandilla King, Turvey, Yanwavd.
As for super., Agricultural Inspector
Brake says that the average dressing applied
with wheat in 1928-29 was only 82fib. per
acre, and insists that “in all districts, as
results of tests show, a greater quantity than
this is necessary for maximum profit.” He
recommends the following application on
well-prepared land: —
Newer Mallee. —901 b. per acre.
Older Mallee. —lcwt. to Hcwt. per acre.
Wimmera. —licwt. per acre.
Western and Central Districts. —llcwt. per acre.
North-east and Goulburn Valley.—lcwt. per acre.
LESSONS FROM SOUTH' AFRICA.
“T.F.W.”: Having received numerous tips
from “The Man on the Land” columns, I
write this from South Africa as a thank-offer-
ing. After 25 years’ experience in various
parts of this country, much of it of a heart-
breaking nature, I can honestly state that my
success dates from the time that I paid
attention to the inorganic constituents of
foodstuffs. I had the common notion that,
provided the protein and carbohydrate con-
stituents were balanced and that the food was
palatable and digestible, nothing further
mattered in the art of correct feeding. It
is now some seven years since I discovered
that the physiological value of a diet rests
upon its mineral or ash constituents no less
than on its organic or vitamin factors.
Since this fact has been established I have
been enabled to exhibit home-bred cham-
pions, instead of the imported article, at most
of the more important shows, besides being
well at the top with cows and heifers, under
the Government millc-recording scheme, for
my particular breed. This, added to an
income some four times larger than formerly,
convinces me that “Tumbe Munda” (B.
23/10/’29) must have had a • corresponding
experience.
So far as S’Africa is concerned (much of
it is like Australia, which I know well),
the first inorganic deficiency was discovered
by Sir Arnold Theiler and his able co-
workers in and about Bechuanaland and
other portions of the northern Gape. Here
it was next to impossible to maintain horned
stock on account of “pica,” a disease caus-
ing depraved appetite and practically cer-
tain death. This was traced to a phosphate
deficiency in the soil and herbage. It was
found that by supplying a few ounces of
bone meal to the stock, deaths immediately
ceased. The result is that this portion of
S’Africa, instead of being denuded of horned
stock, is now about the largest supplier of
erea«m. The more progressive farmers, in
order to be on the safe side, add salt and
iodine to the bone meal.
The district in which I farm is a totally
different proposition from Bechuanaland,
which is on the dry side. We have a 35-45
inch rainfall, most of it falling between
September and early May. The soil is gener-
ally poor and sour; the climate hot in
summer and somewhat cold in winter; alti-
tude nearly 4000 feet. The feeding of
phosphates, although a great aid, was not
nearly so successful as in Bechuanaland.
Nor did a mixture of salt and bone, also
salt, bone and iron (the latter copied from
Maoriland experience), have the desired
result. But once a small quantity of iodine
was added the whole aspect was changed.
This is most peculiar, as chemical analysis of
the soil, herbage and water shows no iodine
deficiency.
The method we adopt for the various
classes of livestock may be outlined: General
lick (placed in weather-proof receptacles in
all paddocks) : Bone meal or bone flour,
130-150!b.; salt, 60-701 b.; potassium iodide,
3-4 oz. The potassium iodide is dissolved in
about |gal. of water, sprinkled on the salt.
When dry the whole is thoroughly mixed.
Mineral mixture “A,” for all classes of
high-quality stock, other than pigs or poul-
try : Bone meal or bone flour, 401 b.; finely-
ground limestone, 401 b.; salt, 201 b.; flowers
of sulphur, 51b.; sulphate iron, 51b. (or iron
oxide, l-j-rlb.) ; potassium iodide, 3oz. The
iodide is handled as mentioned, all ingre-
dients being thoroughly mixed. The mixture
is then added at the rate of 31b. per 1001 b.
to the concentrated food used.
For pigs the iron is not used, the salt is
reduced to 151 b. and the limestone to 201 b.
Two pounds of this mixture is added to
1001 b. of the food supplied. For poultry
the salt is omitted altogether; two or
three pounds of this mixture is added to
1001 b. mash. With us this regimen means
the difference between good and poor stock,
high and low production of meat, milk or
wool, high breeding and “shy” breeding
averages; and (what is of great importance
to a studbreeder) there is no serious
deterioration in type.
A PUMPING WRINKLE.
“Cam”: When wind fails, and it is neces-
sary to use an engine to pump water, here
is a hint well worth adopting.
About four feet from the casing erect a
good fork; have the fork level with the
top of the pump rods when half-way up the
lift. Then get a> rail 10ft. long and secure
it to the fork by a bolt through each prong
and through the rail. Have the hole in the
rail larger than the diameter of the bolt to
allow it to work. Attach the end of the rail
to the pump rods with a piece of wire, leav-
ing a space of six inches or so between
the two. Weigh down the long end by tying
on a block of wood or other matter until it
moves the rods slightly; then couple up
your engine. .
It will be found that the saving on the
working parts of your engine and benzine
will be" well worth the time spent. When
the engine takes the load it has only the
water to lift. The walking-arm lifts the
rods and on the return the rods do not
tend to strain the engine in tlieir downward
pull, as the arm steadies them.
SISAL HEMP.
“W.R.W.” (Ceylon) : Some little time ago
I noticed an inquiry in The Bulletin as to
the profits of growing sisal hemp in the
islands. I’ve had experience of this cul-
tivation in Ceylon, South India, Q
Java and Papua, and say emphatically that
sisal is no good for the man in a* small way.
It must be grown on a large scale, every
advantage being taken of natural features,
cheap labor, improved means of production
and manufacture, to make it a paying specu-
lation. To begin with, 96 per cent, of the
crop is thrown away, the pulp from the
leaf being useless for anything _ beyond
manure, unless with expensive machinery it
is converted into paper-making material. The
yield per acre is about three-quarters of a
ton, the cost of production about £l5 per
ton, and' the price of the product about £66.
Given a proprietor who is prepared to.face
the cost of light railways, with suitable
motive power, and first-class decorticating
machinery, a large profit may be looked for.
An expenditure of £40,000 spread over four
years would open and cultivate 2000 acres,
and, given cheap and efficient labor, there
would be a profit of £lOO,OOO at the end of
eight years. I know of no labor except Tamil
or Javanese that can fill the bill for this
product., The island labor is too slow and
erratic to compete with the Asiatic coolie.
Witli the high rates ruling in Australia
for manual labor, there is no hope of making
any profit out of an export trade.
JUDGE YOUR TREES!
“XSA”: Growers of deciduous fruits must
soon decide whether they are allowing un-
worthy trees to occupy valuable space. In
most instances it will be found that odd
trees are not up to general standard, and
require either reworking or replanting.
These should be seen to without delay.
Where large numbers are under question,
the cause will probably be unsuitability of
type or class for the climatic and soil con-
ditions under which they were established.
A decision must now be reached whether the
particular area shall be worked at all, or,
if worked, whether it should not be replanted
with a more desirable kind.
In the latter case, the first thing will be to
choose the varieties to be used, and one should
study anticipated marketing demands. The
ideal is something which crops well and sells
well. It is far better not to plant than to
add rubbish to a loaded market.
Grafting is the short route to profitable
bearing, and will in a very few years regain
the yield which has been temporarily lost.
Cut the scions from trees which are known
to be vigorous and productive. These should
be heeled-in in a dry and well-drained situa-
tion, and thus kept fresh .until grafting-time
arrives. Do not de-head until ready to
graft, and then select limbs which are in a
good position to ensure symmetry and
balance., Leave one or two limbs to tem-
porarily carry on the natural functions of
the tree until the grafts have taken. Do
not cut back too hard, but work so that the
grafts will go into younger wood. When the
first sap-movement is observed in the tree,
the grafting may be commenced 'and con-
tinued as long as the scions remain semi-
dormant. Use a sharp knife, making all
cuts clean. See that the scion is firmly
affixed by tying. Exclude air and water
from cut surfaces by the use of good graft-
ing-wax.
In order that good results may be
obtained, the grower should practise on
some pruning sticks. It is important that
he should learn how to make the necessary
cuts. Do not attempt to graft peaches and
apricots. The only way to rework these is
to cut down and “bud” into new wood made
during the summer months.
TRAINING THE TRAP-DOG.
“Jamal” : Get him young—any breed w : ll
do —give him a name and keep him on the
chain. During occasional runs, teach him
to sit down, go behind, and come to you at
call. When he is about half-grown, take
him out with you at setting time. Don’t
let him run about or chase rabbits. He
doesn’t understand traps yet and he’ll get
caught a few times. When he does he will
be savage and bite if you try to release him
with your hands, so place a forked stick over
his neck in such a manner that his head
can be held to the ground. You can then
release the spring with your foot. Hell neea
a lot of petting after this, but will soon
learn not to go too close to the traps.
When teaching him to go ahead and nnu
the traps, take him out a few times on
your sundown round and keep sending nun
ahead. After he sees a few rabbits ca*ugnt
he will become eager and soon understand
what is required of him. Finding a rabbit
that has got away with a trap is an impor-
tant part of the curriculum. Get a good
lively fresh-caught buck and let the dog see
it in the trap. Then let the rabbit go some
distance with the trap without the dog seeing
it; then send him after it. lie will begin
to hunt and scent around and will find the
rabbit in no time. Always use the same talk
to the dog a<t this job and make a great fuss
of him when he succeeds. Finally, always keep
him tied up between rounds, don't let him
eat uncooked rabbit, and have no one but
yourself to feed him or handle him.
JAPANESE MILLET.
“Tamornie” : As a summer milk-producer,
Japanese millet needs no recommendation.
Many farmers turn their cows on to it only
once a day, but I find that the best results
are obtained by putting the cows in twice
daily. I made careful comparisons of the
milk returns where they had been put in for
two hours in the morning and again where
they were allowed one hour morning and
evening. The latter method gave an increased
return of 8 per cent. Weather conditions
were exactly the same over the whole testing
period.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
In the case of arsenical fluids applied to
animals to destroy ticks, which is the better
method, spraying or dipping? —s974.
A bath into which cattle can be plunged
is undoubtedly the better method. Total
immersion ensures that every portion of the
beast’s skin is wetted, and that the arsenical
fluid reaches every tick on the skin. In the
case of animals that are sprayed, it is quite
easy for even a careful sprayer to miss small
Dortions of skin, particularly in situations
where ticks are most likely to attach,
such as between the udder and thigh. Dip-
ping is also more expeditious, does not knock
the cattle about so much as crushing and
spraying and makes it easier to ensure that
the dipping fluid is kept at the cbrrect
strength. Spraying is of use where small lots
of cattle are involved, but where any large
number are to be treated it always pays to
construct a suitable dip.
How to prevent white ants damaging fruit
trees?— s973.
. When cleaning land for orchards or vine-
yards remove all stumps and roots from the
ground. White ants’ nests in the vicinity
should be destroyed. When trees become
infested cut out the damaged wood if pos-
sible. Avoid scarring the trees near the
base, as these scars are likely to induce white-
ant attack. Dead or dying infested trees
should be removed and burnt. Where the
roots are attacked the use of paradichloro-
benzene or some other fumigant is suggested.
This will destroy the white ants attacking
the roots and in the adjacent soil, and will
act for a time as a preventive. To apply the
paradichlor. dig a circular trench 8 to 4
inches deep at a distance of 6 inches from
the trunk of the tree, and scatter 2oz. of
the fumigant on the bottom of this, after-
wards filling in with soil. The fumigant is
more active when the soil is warm than when
it is cold, and is not effective when the soil
is saturated with water. For young trees
a dose of loz. is sufficient. If necessary the
treatment should be repeated.
Should sulphur he mixed with the food
for day-old chicks? —5559.
It is not the general practice, as it is con-
sidered the chicks will obtain all the mineral
requirements necessary from the green feed
supplied. Many breeders feed sulphur to
adult stock, or stock that are affected with
chicken-pox, at the rate of \ per cent of the
total mash consumed.
(1) How long is it possible to keep a
setting of hen eggs before they lose their
fertility? (2) Does it spoil them to shake
them or move them during storage? —s66o.
(1) Depends largely on the temperatures
experienced. On commercial poultry-farms
in Australia the general practice is not to
keep them longer than a week. If eggs are to
be kept longer they should be packed in bran,
large end up, and stored in a room where the
temperature is kept between 70 and 75 de-
grees, in which case they may be kept for up
to five weeks. (2) Depends on the severity of
the shaking. A sudden bump may crack the
shells, rupture the air-cell or damage the
yolk, rendering a satisfactory hatch impos-
sible, but eggs carefully packed in cardboard
fillers with a slight sprinkling of chaff will
stand up to any ordinary methods of trans-
port It is wise to let the eggs rest for
24 hours after travelling before setting in
the incubator.
( Land, Page continued on page 25.)


mmmm
M
. : : .V
m
r
«:w:w^
wteiv
■»
v x« : ‘:
ppgB§pi§ps&
staff atjpuo-
ItlOW
iv
&
23
r ,A> [fa
(llso in tins oP
50 and iOO
When she’s heeling over to
a stiff breeze, Country Life’s new
blend off finest Virginia tobacco is
doubly acceptable. It burns evenly,
sweetly, coolly. The end offone Country
Life is but an invitation to light another.
And it’s then you’re glad off the 3 more
Cigarettes that come in the swagger
Country Life tin—the tin that gives you 23
cork-tipped cigarettes for your usual 1/6.
To-day, start smoking these better Cigar-
ettes and get Quality AND Quantity.
Country life
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA
CICAKETTES
$6
Made in Your Own Country at The
Garden Factory Raleigh Park by
HF.D.& H.O Wills (Australia) Ltd .


è
é
ê
117 you own a l° w “P r iced car that embarrasses you every
“ time you try to squeeze full-grown people into its
,ldmpylody - BUY a FULL-SIZE PLYMOUTH
IF yOU are weary rattles and the necessity of having
to “tighten things up” every few miles —
buy a FULL-SIZE PLYMOUTH
IF you like to own a low-cost car with an engine
** that is both block and dynamometer tested—
BUY a FULL-SIZE PLYMOUTH
IF y° u are tired of carbon knocks, want a clutch that
** never grabs, and brakes that stay in adjustment—
BUY a FULL-SIZE PLYMOUTH
IF
IF
you seek a low-cost car that stays low-cost . . that
doesn’t multiply its initial price by repair bills—-
buy a FULL-SIZE PLYMOUTH
you want a low-priced car built to last just as long as
high-priced cars—-with real fine-car stamina—
BUY a FULL-SIZE PLYMOUTH
CHRYSLER
MOTORS
PRODUCT
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
NeW South Wales .... Larke, Neave & Carter, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Lane's Motors Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Ward Motors, Ltd., Brisbane
West Australia Wm. AttWood Motors, Ltd., Perth
South Australia Southern Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania Metro Motors Pty., Ltd., Hobart
New Zealand Todd Motor Company, Wellington
New Guinea W. R. Carpenter 6- Co., Ltd., Rabaul


m
■ n
DRESS SHOES
light, comfortable and
pliant!
The finest patent leather is used for
these lissome Abbey dress-shoes.
The sole is welted. . . .ideally light
and supple for dancing. And the
curving instep arch fits the foot
most naturally. Full and half sizes
available in three fittings, narrow,
medium and wide.
50/-
Patent Leather Pumps.
The lightest of men’s shoes, with
low heels, and soles of the utmost
flexibility. Delightfully restful after
wearing heavy boots or shoes. Full
and half sizes.
28/6
Order by post.- s t a t e
both width and size. Ask, also, for
the correct Abbey Patent Leather
Polish (6d. per tin), or a handy,
new cleaning outfit.
Sports catalogue post free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years,
313 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
‘‘ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
FPL 173
ë
Little Giant
Sash Support
A set for any size window
can be sent anywhere
for 5/-, post paid. So
strong, two (one on each
sash) will support a
pair of sash weighing
161 b., or four a pair of
sash weighing 321 b.
Use Solid Frames,
stronger and less costly.
The Old
Window Prop
may be good enough
f or the humpy,
but it’s out of place in the modern
country home. It is untidy, unsafe
and unnecessary.
No matter how far out back you may live,
you can now have the comfort and convenience
of box-frame (pulley and cord) windows, with-
out the expense, freight, difficulty of instal-
lation, or cost and trouble of renewal.
And no matter how near town your home,
it will pay you better to specify, instead of the
clumsy and perishable cords and weights, the
“Little Giant Sash Support.”
Fit the LITTLE GIANT yourself
with a screwdriver.
Write for particulars to the
AUSTRAL WINDOW CO.,
lO Bligh Street, Sydney.
Sayers
Green
fgAfj
Seal
Remedy
POR ALL STOMACH WORMS
BLACK DISEASE & FLUKE
The One Remedy Cures All.
Contains lcc. Carbon Tetrachloride per See. dose.
900 doses to the gallon; about five sheep treated
for about one penny.
INTER-STATE AGENTS:
New Zealand Loan and Merc. Agency, Rockhampton
N. S. Pixlev Brisbane
Dalgety & Co. Melbourne
Gollin & Co Adelaide
Gollin & Co Perth
King Lawless, Ltd Auckland, N.Z.
Manufactured by
SAYERS, ALLPORT PROP., LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Glass and Metal Syringes, holding f>ec. and acting aa
-Measure and Drenching Syringe, 10/6, post free.
RUGS
for
Horses and Cows
CHANDLER’S PRICES DEFY
COMPETITION.
ALL CHANDLER RUGS are
wool checked lined and per-
fectly finished; complete with
1e g straps. Birkmyre
Waterproof Rugs are
strengthened at neck and tail
with leather.
NOTE—AII rugs are measured
along bottom edge.
HORSE RUGS.
S jEtesi
li
COW RUGS.
oft. sjft.
Heavy Brown Canvas 17/3 19/3
Heavy White Bleached
Canvas 26/6 29/9
Birkmyre Waterproof
Duck 37/9 41/9
Special Cow Rugs, with check lining,
complete with breast-strap and filet-
strap—sft., 13/6 each. If unlined,
9/- each.
Names stencilled on Rugs free of charge,
when required.
PRICES ARE F.O.R. MELBOURNE.
D. §W. CHANDLER LTD.
FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE,
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY,
And at Warrnambool, Bendigo,
Horsham, Ballarat and Portland,
VICTORIA.
ē
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY.
Piling up every little surplus so* profitably and
wisely that full financial independence comes at
a very maximum of speed— that is what our NEW
Investment plan means to you
WRITE FOR A PAMPHLET
Have a Bank Account —Keep it Qroiving
The Primary Producers Bank of Australia Ltd.
Head Office: 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at Londo
Farm Accounts.
s.—How to Balance Your Books. , ,
On balance day, or as soon afterwards as possible, a Trial Balance mus be .
out from the Ledger. This will show on the debit side balances of accou :s P
both assets and losses, and on the credit, side balances representing h b s
profits. If an asset appears on the credit side, or a liability on theJ*® * ’ „ icl
Trial Balance is wrong. The items representing losses and profits, or exp
income, must be transferred to P. and L. Account by journal entry; the l e J .
senting assets and liabilities remain intact, after allowing for depreciation, rei ’
or other adjustments. . ~
When balancing, the following rules should be carefully memorised.
(1) A debit balance always represents an asset, or a loss.
(2) A credit balance always represents a liability or a profit.
To ascertain whether a debit balance represents an asset or a loss, you should -
yourself this question : Could the thing which this balance represents be sold or o '
converted into cash (the latter in the case of book debts) ? If it could, then the b
represents an asset; if not, it is an expense, or loss. 00 it
To ascertain whether a credit balance represents a liability or a profit, ask y
this question: Does this balance represent something owing by the tarm, eitner o
outside persons or to myself (such as capital) ? If it does, it is a liability; it it doesn ,
The Ledger (and, consequently, Trial Balance), prior to balance day, .will only
contain a record of those transactions which have been completed. It is aimos
certain that it will not include every item of income and expenditure, appreciation o
depreciation, applicable to the year’s operations. For instance, after the lrial • t 'aia n ee
has been taken out, Livestock Account must be adjusted (as shown in our last article),
and other adjustments made, such as provision for depreciation, expenses accrued bu
not due, income earned but not received, etc.
Examples of expenses incurred but not yet due for payment would be rent, when it
is not paid in advance, or interest on mortgages or loans. For instance, say that on
September 30, 1928, you raise a mortgage on your farm for £lOOO, bearing interest at
7 p.c. per annum, payable quarterly in December, March, June and September. You
balance on May 31, 1929. On December 31, 1928, and March 31, 1929, you will have
made quarterly payments of £l7 10s. each. At balance day (May 31) there will be two
months' interest accrued, payment of which is not due until June 00. An adjustment
must be made for the amount accrued, which is £ll 13s. 4d. Interest account will have
already been debited with the two previous payments, and will, show a balance or
But the amount which must be charged to P. and L. Account is the appficab e
to the full term, or £35 (paid) plus £ll 13s. 4d. (unpaid) equals £46 13s. 4d. A
Journal entry must be made debiting P. and L. Account and crediting interest accoun.
with that amount, as follows: — _ ~
JOURNAL. Dr. Cr.
May 1311 Profit & Loss Account, Dr. I lo 4
„ To Interest Account II
" „ „ „ (accrued) I |. II 11 13 4
Being interest paid (£35) and accrued | ||
(£ll 13s. 4d.) on mortgage. j |'
11, N
The effect of this entry will be to leave Interest Account with a credit balance of
£ll 13s. 4d. until the next quarterly payment is made. That is quite correct. Interest
Account, after the year’s p. and 1. adjustment, for the time being becomes a liability
account. You owe £ll 13s. 4d. for interest which has to be taken into the years figuies
before the P. and L. Account or Balance-sheet will show the position correctly. Deie
is Interest Account after making the above adjustments:—
LEDGER.
Dr. INTEREST ACCOUNT. Cr.
Dec? 1311 To Cash £l7 10 0 May 31| By P. &L. A/c | £35 0 0
Mar.' |3li „ „ 17 10 0 ”1 ” (accrued) | 11 13 4
May |3l| „ Balance 11 13 4 j
| 1 £46 13 4 [ I £46 13 4
I | June I 1 | By Balance £ll 13 4
II I
In the next term the first interest payment will be made on June 30. The £l7 10s. paid
will be debited as usual to Interest Account, though only £5 16s. Bd. of it will apply
to the year then current. But the payment being offset on the credit side by the
amount taken into the previous term’s accounts, the Ledger at this point will show
a debit balance of only £5 16s. Bd., which is the correct amount, as follows: —
Dr. INTEREST ACCOUNT (Continued). Cr.
June |3ol To Cash I II £l7 10 01 May 131 1 By Balance I II £ll IIT%
i II I II I I ..
Other expenses accrued but not paid at balance day may be dealt with in the same
way as interest. , , . ,
DEPRECIATION.— The decrease m value of fixed assets through wear, tear and
decay and in the case of leasehold property, through effluxion of time, is called
depreciation It is a very real expense, and should never be overlooked at balancing
time The rate of depreciation to be allowed varies with the nature of different assets.
It should be calculated according to the lifetime of the particular asset; if, say your
fencing is estimated to last for 20 years, an annual transfer (called a writing-off) ot
5 p,c. of the original cost will wipe out the item in 20 years, when, if your original
forecast was correct, the fence will need to be replaced. It is usual to make a heavier
provision for depreciation of plant when the machinery is newest, as that is when it
should be earning most. Thus, with harvesting plant estimated to have a useful life
of 10 years, you may write off depreciation at the rate of 12J p.c. p.a. on the original
cost during the first five years, and 7-|- p.c. p.a. during the last five.
In the books P. and L. Account is debited and the Asset Account credited with
the amount of depreciation. At the end of the asset’s lifetime the annual amounts
credited for depreciation will offset the original cost, thus wiping it out.
SUNDRY STOCKS AND STORES. —A valuation of produce unsold at balance day
should be made (at a figure, say, 15 p.c. below the ruling market price), Unsold Produce
Account being debited and P. and L. Account credited with the valuation. Stores of
unused fertiliser, cement, fencing-wire, wire-netting, stock food, etc., should be valued
at cost, Stores Account being debited, and P. and L. Account credited.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Vetinindia” : If you find it necessary to
lance strangles, abscesses or shoulder bruises,
cover your knife-blade with cotton-wool
wrapped around it, except for a quarter-incli
uncovered on the end. If the horse jumps
you will not cause an unnecessarily deep
wound nor cut arteries. . .
“Te Aroha” : A hot bran poultice is the
beginning of treatment for footrot, and
it should be applied per medium of a bag.
Place the poultice at the bottom and put
Strawberry’s foot into the bag. After you
take the bag off apply copper sulphate and
continue with the applications until recovery.
I’ve had cows very bad with footrot, and this
has never failed to cure.
’‘Bill R.” : Where wild tobacco plants appear
in the padock, hoe them out to the further-
most root. Allowed to remain they will,
sooner or later, spring into surprising
vitality. In drought times stock might be
attracted by the fluffy green leaves, which
are poisonous.
“XSA” : Newspaper linings for fruit-cases
are now out of date. Plain white case paper
is cheap and amply repays those who use it.
Orchardists might well bear in mind that
whereas clean white paper commands respect-
ful handling, newspaper is invariably torn
away indiscriminately, thus lending an
unsightly appearance to what is otherwise
a good pack.
“Bung” : When planting out tomatoes sow
large sunflower seeds on each side of the
bed. The sunflowers will shade the growing
plants, and later protect the fruit from get-
ting sunburnt. Also the flowers will be
ornamental, and will provide excellent feed
for the fowls when their seeds ripen.
“G.11.W.”: Bees must be kept warm in
cold weather. It is desirable that frames
should be covered with good mats, three or
four to each hive; cornsacks cut to the
required size will suit the purpose, and
last a long time. Don’t try anything less
protective. These mats should fit perfectly
so as to avoid draughts (if too small) and
absorption of water (should the covers pro-
trude). Keep all weeds and long grasses
away from the hives, which should be at
least four inches the ground. Give
hives a coat of paint and stop up all cracks.
Above all, see that there are no leaky hive-
covers.
“Old Blue” : Bruised and skinned knuckles,
caused by the cranking handle slipping while
starting the farm engine, may be easily pre-
vented. Cut a circular piece the size of a
dinner-plate from a petrol-tin. Punch a- hole
in the centre and remove a three-inch seg-
ment; make two cuts from the outer edge to
the hole. Bring the edges together and fasten
with a rivet. You have now a shallow cone;
slin this over the handle and there will be no
more danger when starting up.
“Slide-rule”: The contents in gallons of
cylindrical vessels such as the common corru-
gated-iron tank can quickly be obtained by
using the following approximate formula:
Square the diameter in feet and multiply the
result by the depth in feet. The figure so
obtained multiplied by five gives the contents
in imperial gallons. The error is so small as
in most cases to be negligible, contents cal-
culated by this method being about two per
cent, in excess of the true capacity. In this
connection it may be worth mentioning that
five imperial gallons equal six U.S. gallons
almost exactly, the error being about a
tenth of one per cent.
“Arbak”: To provide against the break-
ing of prongs in the horse ra<ke, take a piece
of light timber, about two inches square or
in diameter and the length of the rake, and
put it through the coils of the prongs. It
tends to hold them together while work-
ing and thus prevents any undue strain on
individual prongs. A suitable stick for
the purpose may be taken from an old canvas
blind.
“Bonzo”: For rheumatism in pigs (often
diagnosed as cramps) a dry floor, a- warm,
sheltered sty and plenty of bedding straw
are essential. From 2oz. to 4oz. of Epsom
salts, with |oz. to loz. of bicarbonate of
potash mixed in the food, with plenty of new
milk, will do good. If the pig is obviously
in pain, a liniment of 2oz. of spirit of tur-
pentine, 2oz. of olive oil and 2oz. of spirit
of hartshorn should be applied to the swollen
limbs.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” : or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man (22), five years’ exp. as jackeroo,
knowledge sheep, cattle and wheat, wants position
as overseer.. Refs.—s 966.
Young man, well educated, fair knowledge
engineering, sheep and cattle, good horseman, wants
job on station, any State.—sB97.
Married man (30), Q’land, nine years’ exp. as
stockman, wants position on cattle station anywhere.
—5873.
Chemist, Sydney, ex-A.1.F., registered, 20 years’
exp., requires position, part or full time. Refs.—
5949.
Blacksmith, N.S.W., ship and engine work,
metalliferous and coal-mining experience, used to
oxy-acetylene and boiler work, wants job anywhere.
Refs.—sB79.
Carpenter (29), Sydney, wants any kind of work
anywhere.—sB96.
Young man (N.S.W.), strong, wants a job at sea.
—5886.
Youth (16), N.S.W., strong, wants station experi-
ence.—s9l4.
Young Scotch couple desire position, N.S.W., on
station. Wife, exp. cook, general or housemaid;
husband, general station' hand.—5923..
Married couple (W.A.)- require position on station.
Wife, certificated nurse: and capable of teaching
school; husband, general station hand.—s93s.
Young man (N.S.W.) wants odd jobs, gardening,
housework,or painting.—s 962.
Motor engineer (34), ex;R.A.F. officer, wants job
as mechanic in country garage or on large station,
N.S.W. or S.A. Used to electrical work and oxy-
welding.—s979.
To borrow, hire or. buy “Drawing with Pen and
Ink,” by Guptil. Also Federal Schools’ course on
art. —5938.
To borrow or buy Kipling’s “Light That Failed”;
to buy books (early preferred) relating to Aus- ,
tralia, N.Z. or pacific Islands.—s 927.
Englishwoman, residing Yorkshire (Eng.), would
like to correspond with Australians.—s9o7.
To buy’“Five Years in Turkey,” by Von Sanders ;
“Press and General-Staff,” by Lytton.—sB92.
To buy Mariner’s “Tonga”' (two vols., 1818), J.
M. Barrie’s “An Edinburgh Eleven” (1889), Frank-
lin’s “My Brilliant Career” (1903), Douglas’s
“South Wind” and McFee’s “Letters from an Ocean
Tramp.”—sB7s.
Youth (17), S.A., book-keeping knowledge, wishes
gain pastoral exp. in Tas. —5978.
Lady (Vic.) going to W.A. would attend another
or take charge child, for part passage money.—s 999.
Wanted salesman, with knowledge of customs
clearing, to handle Tasmanian produce on half-share
of profits. Must give b0nd.—5997.
Information Sought.
(1) Has the Vic. Govt, declared art , open
season for the destruction of opossums?
(2) From which district arc the best-furred
’possums obtained? (3) What is the aver-
age price of skins in Melbourne? (4) Is
the use of searchlights allowed? (5) Must
a .22 cal. rifle be registered by the police?
(6) Name of a reliable firm of skin brokers?
—5961.
(1) No “open” season. A trapping season
opens from May Ito July 31. (2) Moun-
tain areas east and north-east Victoria. (3)
On April 7 last second-rate skins sold for
1355. a doz. Last year first-rate skins sold
at 300 s. a doz., and ordinary grey at 60s.
a doz. At least 20 p.c. decrease is expected
this year. (4) Yes. (5) No. (6) Eight
brokers are specified on the back of the
license.
(1) How many volunteers were there in
the army the United States sent to the
Ch'eat War? (2) When did the U S.A. cut
out volunteers and start conscription for
service hi France? (3) When did America
declare war on Germany ? —5891.
(1) 617,275. (2) Voluntary enlistments
of men between 21 and 30 were discontinued
on Dec. 15, 1917. Registration under Selec-
tive Service law (passed May 18, 1917)
began on June 5, 1917, and the first draft
was made in the following September. (3)
April 6, 1917.
(1) Is N. Q’land sandalwood of a better
quality than that groum in W.A.? (2) What
is the present price and demand? (3) Names
of buyers? —s77s.
(1) The N.Q. sandalwood ( Santalum
lanceolatum) is of the highest quality, and
is superior to the W.A. wood in oil content,
giving a five per cent, yield, while the wood
of W.A. ( Santalum cygnorum ) is reputed
to contain only two per cent. (2) First
quality sapped sandalwood fetches about £2O
per ton at country stations, such as Hugben-
den and Winton. (3) Tenders have been
called, to close on April 15, 1930, for the sole
right to get sandalwood on Crown lands
in Q’land, the only source of supply in the
State. The successful tenderer will be the
sole buyer of sandalwood from Crown lands.
I wish to illustrate, a book on a technical
subject. How should I prepare the drawings?
Any special paper or ink? Are the drawings
placed where they come in the text, or all
on separate sheets? —ss3o.
If your illustrations are line diagrams or
drawings they should be executed in Indian
ink on smooth cardboard. Blocks made from
such drawings will print on any sort of paper
and can be placed anywhere in the book,
either inset among the printing or on pages
to themselves opposite ’ the reading matter
illustrated. Photographic illustrations or
reproductions of wash drawings can be
printed only on a very smooth-surfaced paper,
and if the rest of the book is on rough or
poor quality paper such illustrations must
be bound in in separate sheets.
How can I induce- a kangaroo-dog to show
his kill? Have tried giving a drink when
he returned, and a titbit, which he expects,
when the ’roo is cleaned. Former owner says
he had no trouble.— sS67.
As the dog was trained by a previous
owner the new owner should work him a
few times in company with that person.
Otherwise, keep the dog in sight until he
catches and throws the kangaroo. Then pull
up and wait, and when the dog comes back
induce him to fetch it in the way that a dog
is trained to go after a duck or a stick,
riding towards the kill and urging him until
he runs up to it. Then pat him and place a
titbit for him on the carcase. Repeat this
until the dog will lead off to the kill from
anywhere.
(1) Names of books that should be read
by a student of conveyancing with a view
to passing the prescribed examination in
N.S.W.? (2) Is there anything to prevent
a loom an from qualifying as a conveyancer?
—5902.
(1) Millard’s “Law of Real Property in
N.S.W.” and “Law of Personal Property in
N.5.W.,” Thompson and Uther’s "Convey-
ancing Act 1919,” Hogg’s “Conveyancing
and Law of Property in N.5.W.,” Prideaux’s
“Precedents in Conveyancing” (portion
only) and textbooks on contract and the
principles of equity. A complete list and
other information may be obtained at the
office of the Master in Equity, Eliza-
beth-street, Sydney. (2) Not that we are
aware of.
How did the small mauve flower with
pale green spiky foliage which grows wild
along the country roadside obtain the name
of “Paterson’s Curse”? —5965.
, Ewart in “Weeds of Australia” says that
“Paterson’s Curse” is a European weed
believed to have been introduced by a set-
tler at Towong (Vic.) named -Paterson. It
was first introduced in Towong shire. It is
called “Starvation Jane” in S.A. and has
■unprintable names in other districts.
What acid is formed from a mixture of
lemon juice and Epsom salts? —5851.
No specific acid will be formed, but the
lemon juice will contain a fair percentage of
'citric acid.
(1) Will the Mallee hen cross with the
domestic fowl? (2) Will the Guinea fowl?
(3) Has the game fowl any cross in it with
the pheasant or partridge?— sB2l.
(1) No. (2) Cases have been known, but
the progeny of such a cross are sterile. (3)
No.
Simple method of refining small quantities
of gold containing silver and copper and
silver, copper and zinc a110y5?, —5606.
Both could be treated by scorifying and
cupelling with excess of lead in a muffle fur-
nace, but a wet method could also be applied
in which nitric acid is used to remove the
base metal. An assayer equipped with a
furnace would find the job very simple.
What is the velocity of a .22 long bullet?
—5878.
Winchester .22 long black smokeless,
muzzle velocity 936.35 ft. per sec.; lesmok
and black, 1067.57 ft .: per sec.
I have heard it stated that the mopoke is
not responsible for the mournful “ more-pork ”
sound at night. Is that correct, and if so,
toho is the ,culprit? —6000.
The familar nocturnal cry represented by
the word “more-pork” or “mopoke” is made
by the boobook owl. It is erroneously sup-
posed, however, that the sound is made by
the tawny frogmouth, on, which the name
“mopoke” has been conferred in consequence.
The ordinary call of the frogmouth is a
series of deep double notes, sounding like
“00-oom” constantly repeated. Sometimes,
however, it does utter a note not very dis-
similar from that of the boobook owl.
Can you suggest suitable eucalypts for
planting in wet sites between Ohaupo and
Hamilton (M.L.)f— 5944.
Eucalypts won’t thrive on swamps, as
experience elsewhere in Maoriland has
proved. On wet soils where the drainage is
fair, the varieties botryoides, gunnii, rostrata
and tereticornis may be grown.
What is Einstein’s Law of Relativity in
plain language? —sBsl.
The subject matter of the theory is chiefly
concerned with the phenomena of space, 'time,
relative motions of bodies and, in the later
development of the theory, gravitation. One
of the fundamentals of the theory is that it
is impossible to prove by mechanical means
that the universe has a common motion.
Secondly, that if an observer moving towards
a source of light measures the velocity of
the light relative to himself he will obtain
the same result no matter how rapidly he
moves.
I have a four-valve radio set, the A supply
of which is obtained from an independent
accumulator and the HT from dry cells.
Could I use a>32 -volt house-lighting supply
as portion of the HT? —5887.
The house ■ lighting may be used as por-
tion of the HT voltage, but it will be neces-
sary to increase same to at least 90 by
connecting a 60-volt dry battery or accumu-
lator in the positive supply lead. Connect
the minus house-lighting battery lead to the
minus receiver terminal and the plus lead to
the minus terminal of a 60-volt dry battery,
or to a 500 m/amp. hour HT accumulator,
the plus lead of which goes to the 90-volt
HT terminal on the receiver. Provide a
suitable tap for the detector terminal and
adjust bias for this new value’ of HT if
necessary.
Textbooks that would be useful to a
student of physiognomy? —s7s7.
The subject is touched upon by many
writers on physiology—Darwin and Lavater
among the number —and by writers on
criminology such as Lombroso and Havelock
Ellis. The only work in English on phy-
siognomy alone that we know of is Man-
tegazza’s “Physiognomy and Expression.”
What is a bandicoot, and how did the
term originate in Australia? —s992.
The name is a corruption of a Telugu
word meaning “pig-rat,” and was originally
applied to a large species of rat common in
Southern India and Ceylon. There is no
evidence as to how it first came to be applied
to the Australian animal, but Collins, writing
in 1802, uses it as if it were a well-known
name.
Who is the world's champion typist? —
5993.
George Ilossfield, of Paterson, New Jersey
(U.S.A.). He won the title for the second
time at Toronto on September 28, 1929,
averaging 135 words a minute, after allow-
ing for deductions for errors.
My kelpie dog, 18 months old, is “dopey”
and thin, and his food doesn't seem to nourish
him. What’s wrong, and the cure? —s6l9.
Probably worms. Administer 1 grain
calomel, 10 grains areca-nut powder and
eight drops of extract of male fern. Imme-
diately after the administration of the
medicine, which should be given in capsule
form, give a tablespoon of castor oil. Feed
once daily on meat and alternate occasionally
with gravy mixed in vegetables.
(1) How can fire be made without
matches? (2) What's, the rule for telling
direction by the sun at mid-day?— s936.
(1) The only method open to the average
white man is by concentrating the sun’s
rays, focussed through a lens of high mag-
nifying power, on to some inflammable sub-
stance, such as dry grass, shredded bark,
dead leaves or paper. Savages employ fric-
tional devices, but it takes long practice to
learn the knack of making and using these.
(2) If you face the sun at mid-day you are
facing approximately due north.
My daughter, educated in England, aged
17, holds junior and senior Oxford certifi-
cates, and is now finishing a course of typing
and shorthand in a Sydney business college.
She wants to take up newspaper work. (1)
Arc her educational qualifications high
enough for a cadetship on a daily paper?
(2) How can she get such a position? (3)
Period of cadetship? (4) Wages? (5)
Prospects of permanent employment if site
makes good? (6) At what age can cadet-
ship commence? (7) Hours of work? (8)
Union membership necessary ? —-5814.
(1) Yes. (2) Application should be made
to managing editors. (3) Four years. (4)
Fjrst year £2, second £3, third £4, fourth
£5 ss. per week. (5) As good as in any
other occupation. (6) About 17. (7) 46
hours. (8) Membership of the Australian
Journalists’ Association is necessary.
How long would' it take to qualify for a
certificate entitling the holder to pilot an
aerial mail 'plane? What would the cost be,
and hoiv could training be arranged? I live
at Mt. Isa (Q.).— 5805.
Instruction may be obtained from the Aus-
tralian Aero Club (Q’land section) at Eagle
Farm Aerodrome, Brisbane. The - period of
instruction a*nd cost are dependent on the
aptitude of the learner. Get in touch with
the pilot of Q.A.N.T.A.S. mail, which passes
through Mt. Isa twice weekly.
Can a candidate for B.A. or M.A. degree
at Sydney Uni. receive a degree without
attending lectures, i.e., by correspondence-
course ? —5BBl.
Candidates for the B.A. degree'must attend
lectures. There is no provision for corres-
pondence courses leading to this degree.
A B.A. may proceed to the M.A. degree with-
out attendance at lectures by pursuing
courses of study approved by the professor
of the subject proposed for the M.A. degree.
How to preserve prawns for bait so that
they retain their original color?— 5900.
Dissolve one heaped teaspoon of salt
mixed with three teaspoons of brown sugar
in a cup of water. Remove the heads from
two quarts of prawns, and place this
solution in a fruit-preserving jar fitted with
a rubber ring. Prawns treated thus keep
for a considerable time and retain their
efficiency as bait.
In to hat order were Sydney suburban rail-
way lines converted from steam to the elec-
tric system, and dates of commencement of
electric services? —s92B.
St. James to Sutherland, 5/9/’26; Suther-
land to National Park, 20/12/’26; St. .Tames
to Bankstown, 26/9/’27; Hornsby to Mil-
son’s Point, 15/7/’2B; Sydney to Homobush,
12/12/’2S; Strathfield to Hornsby, 10/6/’29 ;
Homebusli to Parramatta, 10/11/’29 ; Gran-
ville to Liverpool, 10/11/’29; Lidcombe to
Cabramatta, via Regent’s Park, 3/2/’3O.
(1) What is the record for a day's shear-
ing in Australia? (2) What is the N, S.
Wales record? —5708.
(1) With hand-shears 321 sheep in eight
hours, made by Jack H’owe at Alice Downs
(Q.) in 1892. The day’s run was Bhr.
40min., but Howe started later than the other
men and left off earlier. The record with
machines is 316, made by Dan Cooper at
Bundoran (Q.) in 1910, beating the pre-
vious record, made by Jimmy Pow r er at
Barenya in 1892, by one sheep. (2) Not
available. Champion shearers mostly operate
in Q’land, where the cut is better. Billy
Lynem and Frank Ashford both cut 260 in
N.S.W. sheds. This was equalled by the
ring-r of the Lianillo shed, Walgett district,
in 1924.
What is the difference between a “boot-
legger” and a “sly-grogger?” —s994.
“Bootlegger” is a slang American term,
originally employed to describe illicit peddlers
of booze who concealed their supplies in the
legs of their long boots. The term is now
applied to cover all illicit dealers in intoxi-
cating liquor. A “sly-grogger” is a similar
sort of law-breaker, but more particularly
one who sells liquor at a fixed address.
What is meant by side-bands in radio?
—5908.
When a broadcasting station transmits on
carrier only, a certain fixed frequency is
emitted, but if this carrier is modulated by
speech or music, these low frequencies are
superimposed on to the carrier-wave pro-
ducing side-band frequencies. A station trans-
mitting on 1,500,000 cycles (200 metres)
will send out side-bands corresponding to
frequencies up to 1,510,000 and down to
1,490,000 cycles or to a maximum of 10,000
cycles on either side of the carrier frequency.
Brief Answers.
C.F.: Your English team is correct. Aus-
tralians were: Noble (captain), Trumper, Duff, Hill,
Syd Gregory, Hopkins, Armstrong, Trumble, McLeod,
Kelly and Howell. For details consult files of
Adelaide “Advertiser” J.P.T.: Probably the
council is acting' within its rights ; peruse carefully
the form you signed. In any case it would be injudi-
cious, unless, you have money to burn, to fight the
council over | per cent 8.P.: Born April 25,
1873, at Charlton, Kent, and educated in London
at St. Paul’s Cathedral Choir School. See R. L.
Megroa’s “Walter De la Mare”.. . .G.W.S.: “Practical
Book of Period Furniture,” by Eberlein and McClure;
“Style in Furniture,” by R. Davis Benn ; “Furniture
of Olden Times,” by F. C. Morse. . 1 .H.A.: Informa-
tion not available locally. Write Institute of South
African Architects, 73 St. George is-ter race; or Bur-
roughs, Wellcome and Co., Box 1013, G.P.O. —both
of Cape Town... .0.J.8.: “Modern Soaps, Candles and
Glycerine,” by L. L. Lamborn; “Modern Soap and
Glycerine Manufacture,” by E. T. Webb; “Modern
Soap and Detergent Industry,”, by G. Martin (two
vols.) ; and “American Soap Makers’ Guide,” by
Meerbott. :. .A. 8.: “Pastel Work,” by A. A. Rankin ;
and “Art of Painting in Pastel,” by L. Richmond
and J. Littlejohns. . i .W'.M.D.: “Coffer Dam Process
for Piers,” by C. E.- Fowler ; also “Practical Treatise
on Engineering and Building Foundations,” by the
same author; and “Design and Construction of
Dams,” by E. Wegmann C.E.P.: (1) Yes. (2>
Give more details... .C.H.H.: The largest one-span
masonry bridge is the Adolphe bridge in Luxem-
burg, erected in 1900-1903. It has a span of 278 ft.
. ...S.J.L.: Its use is prohibited in N.S.W. match
factories by the White Phosphorus Prohibition Act,
1915... .E.C.: The Royal Soc. for the Welfare of
Mothers and Children conducts a training school
where nurses may receive post-graduate training in
infant hygiene and mothercraft. Full particulars
from N.S.W. Department of Health... .J.F.: The
transaction will be completed in 37 quarters, total
payments being £459 (capital) and £142 ss. (interest).
The interest payments commence at £6 17s. 84<L
per quarter and decrease each quarter as capital is
reduced... .N.A.: “Balargorang” means “feeding
ground of the kangaroos,” “Eenaweena” “a little
woman,” “Kootapatamba” “hole where the eagles
drink” and “Tallawarra” “a slippery place”....
W.M.R.: The route mileage of the Glasgow Corpora-
tion tramways is 1372 miles, and of the Sydney
and suburban tramways 176 miles. The population
of Glasgow is approximately 1,050,000, and of Sydney
(metropolis only) 1,128,000 at the latest available
estimates. . . .S.H.: (1) and (2) No. (3) Probably, yes.
. ...E.8.G.: (1) Via Port Augusta, Iron Knob and
Eucla. (2) Write Shell Co. of Aust., Ltd., 153
William-street, Melbourne, who will supply map of
overland route with full details... .C.L.D.: It is
American and is stocked by Cooper Engineering
Co., Little Bourke-street, Melbourne... .P.D.M.:
Neither ticket won a prize... .G.G.: Write, asking
for fur catalogues, to Anthony Hordern and Sons,
Brickfield Hill; W. Dale, 49 Castlereagh-street; or
Tost and Rohu, Martin-place—all Sydney... .C.L.11.:
Write to W. R. Carpenter and Co., Ltd., 19
O’Connell-stre.et; Lever’s Pacific Plantations, 117
Pitt-street; Mala.vta Co., 72 King-street; Charles
Helps, 247 George-street—all Sydney... .G.E.H.:
Pronounced “dark” Ward: Place squeaking shoes
in a shallow vessel and pour in enough neatsfoot
oil to just cover the tops of the soles. Leave for
two or three days. .. .G.E.F.: Bush' Book Club of
N.S.W., 161 Castlereagh-street, Sydney... .A.E.A.:
Write Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., 175 Clarence-
street, Sydney... .N.S.: An amending Act passed
in 1928 provides that the N.S.W. Fair Rents
Act shall cease to have effect on July 1, 1933....
D.A.S.: The Maskelyne Islands are a group fronting
the south-east coast of Malekula in the New Hebrides.
They stand on extensive coral reefs upon which
beche-de-mer is said to abound. There are only a
few inhabitants. .. .W.C.M.: (1) Govett’s Leap
(N.S.W.) is named after a surveyor, W. R. Govett,
who discovered the falls in 1832. (2) Pronounced
ben-et. (3) Due-c 0... ,W.P.: Consult “Political
Handbook of the World” at N.S.W. Public Library.
.... Rex: Chester Cobb, Old Rectory House, Little
Rollright, Chipping Norton, England... .L.S.: Aus-
tralian Boat Oar Co., 70 Clarence-street; Buzaeott
and Co., 7 Market-street; Paul and Grey, Ltd., 82
Sussex-street —all Sydney... .J.K.M.D.: Write Aus-
tralian Whaling Co., 16 Barrack-street, Sydney... .
C.N.: There’s little to choose between them. Write
to the railway departments in the capital cities....
H.G.T.: Communicate with Norman L. Agate, 55
Junction-road, Summer Hill. .. .F.S.: Griffith and
Hassell, 77 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, will help you.
. ...G.D.: Apply direct to the shipping cos
R.S.: (1) No. (2) Air Board, Defence Department,
Melbourne. (3) and (4) Depends on trade
in which you desire to enlist. Obtain free
pamphlet “How to Join the R.A.A.F.” from Air
Board. There are no vacancies at present and it is
not expected that there will be any for some con-
siderable time... .M.M.8.: Look through old news-
paper files at the Mitchell Library, Sydney... ,A.T.:
Try Sir Robert Bear’s Bookshop, 19 Royal Arcade,
Sydney W.H.W.: Where a motor-car is used
exclusively’ in the production of income, a percentage
of the value of such car is not included in the
“family income” for endowment purposes. The owner-
ship of a car is not necessarily a bar to receiving
endowment G.L.: Write H. B. Selby and Co.,
Bulletin-place, Sydney D.C.S.: The taking of the
census has now been deferred from July 1, 1931, to
July 1, 1933. In consequence of this postponement
there will be no work available for temporary
draftsmen or clerks for nearly two years. . . . A.T..
Consult Zora Cross’s “Introduction to the Study of
Australian Literature”; Nettie Palmer’s “Modern
Australian Literature”; and H. M. Green’s “Outline
of Australian Literature.” The Jubilee Number of
Tun Bulletin (29/l/’3O) will help. . . .O.B.: H. R.
Pearce won the 2000 metres rowing race (single
sculls) at the 1928 Olympic Games held at Amster-
dam. Time 7min. llsec... .R.M .: (1) It is the
experience of most athletic coaches and physical
culture instructors that the strength of will of the
pupil is of more importance than the system of
exercises prescribed. Sandow’s “Strength and How
to Obtain It” is a highly recommended text-book.
(2) “Saddlery,” by P. N. Ilasluck J.K.: Write
to the Queensland and W.A. Mines Departments....
G.D.S.: “Elements of Mineralogy,” bv Frank Rutley,
Angus and Robertson, Sydney... .C.J.U.. The mattei
should be reported to the Inspector of Stock for
tha Armidale (N.S.W.) Pastures Protection District.
Lex; (1) It is not illegal. (2), (3) and (4)
Communications between solicitor and client aie
privileged, but if a solicitor communicates allega-
tions of a damaging sort to a third party, he lays
himself open to action for libel or defamation. . . .
A.P.T.: The son of a French citizen resident in
Australia is subject to French military obligations,
but the French Consulate in the State where he
resides may grant him an exemption R.A.N.:
The “Metropolitan” is not of any particular value,
but Mitchell Library, Sydney may make you an
offer V.F.: It is dangerous in experienced hands.
Anvwav ’ the result can be attained by more natural
means ’ W.G.: Write Warburton, Franki, Ltd., 307
Kent-street, Sydney... -S.R.J.: There is no “official”
remedy. The free incising of the wound and the
rubbing in of potassium permanganate (Condy’s
crystals) is the usual procedure.. . .(Many others
mailed.)


ĕ
FORSTER’S STEEL
CLOTHES LOCKERS
For Clubs, Schools, Theatres, Offices, Factories
and Homes. Supplied singly or in rows; hand-
somely finished in olive-green baked enamel.
Ensure Cleanliness. Save fire risk, and pro-
vide security against theft. Every locker fitted
with a thief-proof lock. Supplied with base
or legs as desired.
The illustration shows the three most popular
styles, namely, single-tier, two-tier and four-
tier. The two- or four-tier arrangement of
lockers is very advantageous where floor space
is a consideration. Can be supplied with hasp
and staple, so that the users may supply their
own padlocks if desired.
Forster’s Steel Lockers will set a good example
in your business.
STORE YOUR STOCK IN
FORSTER’S STEEL SHELVING
PROVIDES GREATER SPACE STRONGER THAN WOOD
Many business houses are now installing Steel Shelving for
greater storage efficiency, and Forster’s adjustable Steel
Shelving is playing a leading part in this progressive trend.
Steel shelving gives increased storage space, is fire-resisting,
more attractive, has double the strength and life of wood-
work, and its first cost is the last cost. Whatever your line
of business, consider the many advantages of storing your
stock in steel.
Forster’s Steel Shelving can be made to your
own design and specifications. Plans supplied
free after consultation. Let us know your
requirements.
For the Engineering and Motor Trades. The illustration
shows an island stack with shelves on three sides. The
drawers shown are divided into suitable compartments
for the storage of small drills and taps, etc., or small
bolts and nuts. Other designs for Stores, Banks,
Libraries, Hospitals, Offices, Music-shops, etc.
FORSTER’S STEEL
PRODUCTS
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
SHELVING CLOSETS, BINS, CUPBOARDS,
FOR EVERY STORAGE NEED.
Write now, or call, for further information.
r
i
;i, 0. H
! : ?4 d f
■'
- •• • !
?' .
■; \\ f t
! 1 ' J. \
.
: ■
!•: i \
_ _• 1 :
■Hi
■ *
FORSTER’S BEDSTEADS LTD.
MARY ANN STREET,
ULTIMO, SYDNEY, -phone : M 4247 (3 lines)
Technical Books
Useful for Everybody
Jobbing Work for the Carpenter, Builder and Handyman. By
Edward H. Crussell
Hardening, Tempering, Annealing and Forging of Steel. By
Joseph V. Woodworth
Watch- and Clock-makers’ Handbook. Dictionary and Guide.
By F. J. Britten •
Modern Piano-tuning and Allied Arts. By W. B. White
Regulation and Repair of Piano and Player Mechanism, together
with Tuning as Science and Art. By W. B. White ......
The Piano. Scientific, Technical and Practical Instructions
relating to Tuning, Regulating and Toning. By Daniel
Spillane
Model Railways. Design, Details and Practical Construction.
By Henry Greenly
The Automobile Engineer Reference Book
Die and Press Tool work
Power Gas and the Gas Producer. By J. C. Miller, M.E
Gas-engine Troubles and Installation, with Trouble Charts. By
John B. Rathburn
Good Practice in Construction. By Philip G. Knobloch ......
The Furniture Styles. By Herbert E. Binstead
Concrete on the Farm and in the Shop. By Colin Campbell . .
Woodworking Machinery for Small Shops. By Murray Ball . .
Stair Building and the Steel Square. By Hodsgon-Williams ....
Brickwork and Its Construction. A Textbook for all Workers
in Brick. By Walter R. Jaggard
Concrete Roads and their Construction
Manufacture and Uses of Concrete Products and Cast Stone.
By H. L. Childe
Processes of Flour Manufacture. By P. A. Amos
The Art of Drawing in Lead Pencil. By Jasper Salwey
Graphic Design. By W. G. Raffe
Elementary Craftwork in Metal. By Alfred J. Shirley
Galvanising. A Practical Treatise. By Heinz Bablik
Railway Signalling. By S. T. Dutton .
Railway Signal Engineering (Mechanical). By Leonard P.
Lewis
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO.,
“THE TECHNICAL BOOKSHOP”
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
High Quality Results at a Lower Price
31 s
K
¥^■44
E
The newest in
economical,
smokeless shells!
FREE
SHOOTING BOOK.
“What Happens after
the Shot is Fired”—
illustrating by actual
electric photographs
the methods by
which Peters
Ammunition has
been perfected. Write
to nearest address.
LOADED by the exclusive Peters method
. . . .with wads of long hair felt. . . .
Victor smokeless shells have the
special water-tight bevel crimp. For
accuracy, power and absolute uniformity
they are unsurpassed at the price.
The Peters line includes as well, “High
Velocity” for hard hitting at extreme range;
“Target,” a superior smokeless load;
“Referee,” a semi-smokeless shell at the
cost of black powder; and a full range of
metallic cartridges.
SYDNEY DEALERS: SIL ROHU, 143 Elizabeth Street; and
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD.
DISTRIBUTORS:
W. H. LIDDLE & CO York and Barrack Streets, Sydney
ALCOCK, PIERCE PTY., LTD Little Collins Street, Melbourne
ARMSTRONG CYCLE AND MOTOR AGENCY, LTD Perth
JAMES HILL & SON, LTD Adelaide
FPL 9
if any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original


è
WHEN MAKING YOUR WILE 7
REMEMBER THIS
MANY men believe that in making their will they are
bequeathing their whole property to their dependents.
In actual fact this is not so. Probate tax makes a
heavy inroad into many bequests. To overcome this difficulty,
the P. &C. Probate Assurance was evolved. It provides the
ideal solution, pays for probate tax, obviates forced sales and
provides adequate money for dependents during the long assess-
ment period. Discuss the matter with their representatives or
write to: —
PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly,- M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: H. Fell.
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
L N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
5b- Agency Co., Ltd.
DO YOU WANT TO ENTER A PROFESSION?
4tim
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and
enter a profession where there is a certainty of employment are advised to
send for our prospectus. Here is one profession where the supply is not equal
to the demand. Those enrolling during the present month receive a SPECIAL
CONCESSION.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
THE HIGH COST OF LIVING
is a serious matter and difficult to solve.
BUT
THE HIGH COST OF ASSURANCE
has been solved.
DOMINION FORESTS Bond Assurance
cuts premiums in two and also gives you a planted freehold
acre. Write the Sole Brokers:
PACIFIC UNDERWRITERS,
26 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
SMOKE-OH!
In Sydney mob assaults it is usually 20
to 1 against the police.
* *
“Can an actress keep straight?”
The answer, of course, is in the affirmative
unless she is bent on a stage career.
* *
“She’s laughing up her sleeve,” you say :
The yarn 1 don’t believe.
llow could a flapper laugh that way?
She never has the sleeve.
AN ALIBI.
“Yes, Cohen, you know more about der fire than you told der
Coroner —vhere vere you ven it started, eh?”
“S'elp me, Abrahams, I don’t know notting about it. I vasn’t
there—l vas avay storing a bit of der furniture.”
This one comes from Dunedin: Two
children named McWhallop poisoned their
parents. The kids wanted to go to the
orphans’ picnic.
BEATING THE BOOKS.
There is a simple method of doing it
which I will now divulge. In the first place
you want capital, plenty of capital—every-
body does. Learn next to recognise the
jockeys and the colors of the owners and
so do away with the necessity of dipping
into capital for racebooks. Most racecourse
fences can be scaled and anybody can ride
free on a race-train. Try and go racing
with someone who either brings his lunch
along or is likely to buy lunch (and all
necessary drinks) for you.
Let us now assume that you are safely
on the course, your inner man refreshed,
your capital intact and your eyes resting
on the animals as they canter past in their
preliminary pipe-openers—a pleasure which
costs nothing. At this stage you must either
borrow or pinch (on no account must you
purchase) a scribbling-pad and pencil. Corn-
mence with the topweiglit and write its name
on your pad. Good. Now, in order to
illustrate how my system should be worked,
I will mark a programme. Thus: —
Stiffun: A good horse, except for his spavins, but
has no hope at the weight. Avoid.
Spreadeagle: This is the horse Whatshisname, the
apprentice, is going to ride. Spreadeagle won’t be
able to gallop for laughing at the way the boy
rides him. In any case the stable is probably back-
ing something else. Leave alone.
The Roarer: Has never won a race and never will.
Avoid like plague.
Squidface: A brute at the barrier. The last time
he started stones were pelted at him to make him
move —and pelted in vain.
Linga-Longa: Has a habit of playing ruck for
the whole of the four quarters. One of those always-
finishing-from-a-long-way-back customers. Don’t back.
Due-for-Zoo: The distance is too far for this brute
by about a mile. Don’t touch with barge-pole.
And so you proceed, methodically elimin-
ating one contestant after another,-till the
end of the programme is reached. You now
watch the race, have a drink —at your
friend’s expense—and hurry to the rails for
the next event. As evening approaches you
will realise happily that, after ar pleasant,
healthy day, you have done much better finan-
cially than most of the non-professionals
present. Before joining in the rush for the
turnstiles, seek out a bookie with a kind
face and try to borrow a tenner from him.
He will probably give you a shilling to leave
him alone.
Fjmrleigii Bright.
* *
BLUENOSE AGAIN.
“You see, Blotson,” said Bluenose Holmes,
“this microphonic installation enables me to
listen in on every flat in this huge building.
My reason? I am clearing up the McCork-
screw diamond
mystery. I am
taking the flats in
rotation. We will
now switch on to
No. 4, on the
fifteenth floor.”
Another second
and the room was
filled with a man’s
savage impreca-
tions.
“You cur !” the
voice hissed. “Alone
at last, I am now
in a position to
send you to that
eternity from
which you have
been kept too long!
Ah, ha! whilst I
hungered for her
love she showered
it upon a worthless
thing like you!
Come, there is
enough poison here
to send ten thou-
sand hounds such
as you to Hell!”
“Blotson,” said
the investigator
tensely, “we have
stumbled upon a
crime that will
make the McCork-
screw affair look
farcical. Murder is
in the wind.
Follow m e.”
“Automatics?” in
qui r e d Blotson.
“Mach ine-guns,”
replied H'olmes,
and loaded his.
Two minutes
later the egregious
pair burst in the
perfectly good door
of No. 4 flat and discovered poor old Blinker
ramming a dose of rough-on-i'ats down the
neck of his absent wife’s poodle!
D. McM.
“He went to the house to explain, but defendant
took him by the ear and threw him out.”
Anyhow, defendant was willing to ear him
him out, and that’s more than many a man’s
wife will do.
The Drys while bent on scotching drink
Maintain a keen and constant watch;
But unabashed the Wets just wink,
Their elbows bent in drinking Scotch.
* *
“If a man swears, he will lie also.” —Visiting
evangelist.
Hence the maxim: “ ’Struth is no stranger
to fiction.”
* ¥
OPTIMISM.
She looked up from the pillow and smiled
wanly into the loving eyes of her husband.
“He’s the living image of you, John.” And
then philosophically, “It can’t be helped.
Perhaps we’ll have better luck next time.”
Question suggested by Sydney’s coming
aklermanic elections : Is it to be a Garden
City?
* *
IF
No more would I wear a look forlorn;
In fact, I’d be merry and bright,
If I only knew on Saturday morn
What. I know on Saturday night!
& *{•
HOW IT REALLY HAPPENED.
“You are weighed in the balance-sheets and found
wanting.”
Dr. Swatt, who has unearthed and dis-
seminated more misinformation on the sub-
ject of ancient Babylon than any antiquarian.
THE TEST.
CITY NIECE: “Oh Uncle! He’s the most wonderjul cowboy you ever saw. The way
he RIDRS and shoots and rescues the girls"
COCKY FARMER: “Cowboy, is 'e?’ Ow many kin e milk before breakjast?
living or dead, has discovered some interesting
facts about the above slogan. His inves-
tigations show that the Daniel Publicity
Co. was a particularly live concern in its
heyday. One of the Managing Director’s
many original stunts was to remain for
several hours in a lions’ den by way of
advertising the merits of Nehcmiah’s Nerve
Nuts. Despite the libellous suggestions of
rivals that the animals had been drugged,
Daniel’s trick inspired great public interest;
and the “Babylonian Guardian” published
photographs, with handsome prizes for
readers who were able to distinguish Daniel
from the lions.
Altogether, it was a great advt. for
Nehcmiah’s product, and for Daniel’s firm,
too. Indirectly, it enabled Dan to become
a large shareholder in Great Babylon, Ltd.
Belshazzar was elected chairman of directors
of this concern when his father, the million-
aire Nebuchadnezzar, devoted his energies to
the turf.
Great Babylon, Ltd., became so powerful
eventually that to a Nationalist of the period
it would have seemed criminal disloyalty to
ha vo said a word against its head Belshazzar,
known in the Street of Bligli, because of his
vast wealth, as the “King of Babylon.”
One day the board was enjoying the usual
sumptuous banquet (at the shareholders’ ex-
pense) when Belshazzar noted the writing
on the wall. A billposter had just attached
it to a hoarding over the way. “Mene, Mene,
Tekel Upharsin,” the advt. ran. The directors
were harassed by vague forebodings, and sent
post haste for Daniel.
“What does it mean?” they asked him.
“What does it mean?” he repeated inso-
lently. “It means that you’re weighed in the
balance-sheets and found wanting—the whole
boiling lot of you !”
Now that it was too late the board real-
ised that it had made a fatal mistake in
cutting down the
advertising of the
Daniel Pub licity
Co. During the
annual meeting
Darius, at the head
of the malcontents
of the Country
party, with proxies
from other share-
holders in Persia
and thereabouts,
poured in, and as
tlie Biblical story
poetically puts it,
“the kingdom of
Belshazzar was
ended.”
That Belshazzar was literally slain, how-
ever, is one of the mistakes that the orthodox
records repeatedly make. Files of the “Baby-
lon Guardian” unearthed by Dr. Swatt indi-
cate that, following the epochal _ elections,
he issued a million-shekel libel writ against
Daniel. It was a palpable stop-writ, and
the suit was never proceeded with. It was
merely his credit that was killed.
Daniel’s end was sad. He took to drink,
became deranged in consequence, and squand-
ered most of his fortune on a monster zoo,
equipped with expensively furnished dens
for the use of those who wished to fore-
gather with lions. Although the art of pub-
licity was forgotten for thousands of years
after his decease, “the writing on the wall”
lias been passed down as a memory of
time when it flourished in Babylon, ana
is constantly on the lips of the most inip
dent of all our modern Self-advertiser^,
namely, the politicians. , T
Id. ivl.
* *
“A party of Scotch tourists intends to visit Aus-
tralia.”
No doubt they will spend some time here.
*
THE SPURNING OF STELE A.
Slugurbia awoke and shuddered. Blithers,
the locality’s black sheep, had got bestially
drunk again, and this time he was bringing
Stella Grey home with him. Howling: a
vinous ballad he reeled past the homes of
his scandalised neighbors, clasping Stella in
a fond embrace.
Suddenly his mood changed. With a scowl
he freed himself of his fair burden. “Blaslit
y’!” he growled. “Goin’ liomsli t’ little wife.
Don’ want you!”
Next morning Blithers recalled dimly that
he had bought a prize carnation somewhere,
but what he had done with it he hadn't
the faintest idea.
D. McM.
¥ »
IF ONLY.
If only I could yet
A t.-p. mother-in-law I
Well, well!
I may secure one yet,
And if I do perhaps
I may contrive to let
All the instalments lapse....
Quin.
“In spite of the hard times there appears to be
any amount of money for the bookmakers.”
“No. old chap, I’m sorry I can’t lend you
ten bob. I’m short myself, and I owe money
right and left. But what’si the odds?”
* *
When a man reaches the stage of think-
ing that a girl looks unusually becoming it’s
time for him to be going.
THE LETTER.
“Defendant claimed to have sent a letter explain-
ing that he could not afford to pay for the
advertising space.”
“Sir, you may whistle for your cash.
Business is far too bad
For me to pay your bill to-day.
I have no more to ad.”
* ¥
“He did his beast to be unpleasant.”— “News.”
In fact, his behavior was a cow.
FILIAL AFFECTION.
“Here’s just the car we want, dear. Look
at that nice rear seat for mother.”
“Good Friday and Easter Monday must be observed
as close holidays,”
Easter regs.
* #
The Drys can say what they like against
the publican, but he’s always prepared to
give us a rum for our money.
PUNTERS’ LAMENT.
If Pike kicks ’ome er winner
Thcr mob ’ ops up an’ roars;
They also yells like blazes
When Teddy Bartle. scores.
I've ’card ’em laud. Jack Toohey
As though ’e wuz a king.
An’ ditto Togo Johnstone
When they ’ave beat the Ping.
There’s Cook, Mimro, McCartcn,
O'Bryan, Parr an’ Pratt —
They treat these boys like V rocs when
They swings er winnin’ bat.
Why should they a monopoly
Of public praise command
When I’ve kicked ’ome, thcr programme
Just sittin’ on thcr stand?
POM.


To talk with Oldsmobile owners
is to realize the exceptionally
high standing this car has in
Australia
The high regard Oldsmobile owners
have for their cars—the measure of
satisfaction they enjoy—is the best
indication of Oldsmobile value.
A sense of owner pride in the
car itself, aided by enthusiasm for
its qualities, gives to Oldsmobile
its greatest tribute and finest
advertisement.
To talk with these proud and
enthusiastic owners is to realize
that an Oldsmobile owner is a
satisfied owner. And after listening,
the urge is to become an Olds
owner yourself.
You’ll want to take the wheel of
the car regarded so highly—to feel
its power, its speed, to take it over
hills—to experience its smoothness;
its roadability —to revel in its
smartness and style.
é
OLDSMOBILE
Serving Thousands of Satisfied Owners
§
inside and note the differencel
It’s a GENERAL MOTORS
car —


Uliillil
m
x v
&w$
mm
3K
S3£
&SK
mM
m
m.
A Battery of 3 “Ideal” Boilers
As supplied to
G. J. Cole’s New Store
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
For Hot-water Service, Steam Cooking and Warming.
95 per cent, of the big buildings of Melbourne, Sydney and other Australian
cities with heating installations have “Ideal” Heating Appliances installed.
"Ideal” Boilers and “Ideal” Classic Radiators are the one solution of the
problem of warming Hotels, Guest-houses, Offices and Public Buildings.
The “Ideal” Classic Radiator has received the universal approval of archi-
tects. It possesses many practical features which make it pre-eminently
the Radiator for every situation.
There are also “Ideal” Installations of varying capacities for Ordinary
Households—a size for every Class of Home which can be supplied for Hot-
water Service and Warming or for Hot-water Service only. Thousands
of Families are enjoying the advantages of having an “Ideal” Hot-water
Service in the Home. It is very popular throughout the world.
“Ideal” Installations are most reliable, healthful, labor-saving and safe, and
far more economical in upkeep than the best of Gas or Electric Appliances.
Full Particulars and Expert Advice Free.
gmiittnimu nn
1 JOHN
siiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiT?
iQ
- LXO
pr^-
391-403 Bourke Street, Melbourne, C.l
324-330 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ê
ADDR-ESS-
--V i<~C. y# yf
CHOCOLATES
162-166 Pitt Street
S V~D N E V" 1
phices
3/ 545. 6/; 10/. 12/6.
20 4 arvcL 30 A
XPATOW)
f "T T T ▼
f
'Wl'l'l
%'IU
<7l
&$k
m
N
C*
<4
*l*
fP
N>
»
w
&
XC,
«'•*
For
40 Years
a Tried and
T rusted
Remedy for
RHEUMATISM
IMPURE BLOOD
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO
CHRONIC BACKACHE
BLADDER WEAKNESS
TIRED, TOO-OLD FEELING
DOWN-DRAGGING WEAKNESS
LACK OF VITALITY, ACHING LIMBS
SALLOW COMPLEXION, DIZZINESS
PAINS IN JOINTS, BAD NIGHTS
Rheumatism
The Scourge of Millions can now be
treated Rationally.
THIS is an age of medical research. The most famous doctors in the world are
giving years of their life to discover the cause of health troubles that are crippling
nations.
And most vital of all in this great health work, first in importance, is that which tells us
to day the cause and the remedy for that everyday ill-health trouble that cripples millions
yes, millions — of men and women —rheumatism.
Rheumatism and all the chronic pain it brings, it is practically unanimously agreed, is
caused by harmful bacteria and impurities in the blood. It is really the duty of the kidneys
to filter out from the blood these pain-bringing evil When they fail in their vital
action these harmful bacteria, etc., are carried through the blood stream to all parts of the
body, setting up their work, and that is why your nerves call out their night and day
message of pain.
If you understand this you will realise that the only remedy that can end your
rheumatic torture must re-vitalise the kidneys to carry out their healthy, blood-
purifying action. You will understand, too, why plasters, ointments or merely
purgative pills cannot help you.
All the wonderful scientific research that has been carried on clearly vindicates
the claim of the 40-year-old DeWitt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills to be a reliable
remedy in cases of kidney disorder, rheumatism and its painful symptoms.
Be Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are not a u cure all.” They are made from
a prescription (clearly printed on each box) solely for the purpose of remedying
Kidney Trouble, Bladder Weakness, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, Chronic Backache
and the weakness and loss of vitality caused by impoverished blood.
Every bottle of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills sold, either the 3/6 or
the larger, more economical 6/6 size, carries this definite money-back guarantee.
If, within twenty-four hours from starting to take these pills regularly, you do
not see (from colour of urine) that they are acting directly through the kidneys,
return partly used bottle and your money is refunded in full.
Start to-day building health, vigour and vitality. Ask for and see you get 1
De WITT’S PILLS


3
&
\0
4^
4
s*
o>
0 ,
*>«
e
“Your Radio Pleasure depends
on the Speaker The ONLY
Speaker guaranteed against hum
or rattle for the life of the Speaker.
That is the X-Core Dynamic Speaker—
made by Magnavox, of course —for only
Magnavox may make a Dynamic Speaker.
Obtainable all Radio Dealers.
Battery operated D.C. Units, <£s//5/-
A.C. operated from House Mains. A.C. Units, £7/1 5/
X
m
\
Mellow and Cool
Here’s a cigar especially
adapted to the Australian
taste. It’s fragrant and
rich.... absolutely depend-
able in quality. Obtain-
able at hotels and tobacco-
nists’, or at address below.
ORDER BY POST.
u
è
CRAIG AND AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney
'PL 8
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS LTD.
The World’s largest Commercial Forestry Co.
Subscribed Share Capital £240,619
Bonds Subscribed exceed £3,400,000
Funds lodged with Trustees exceed £450,000
(Including over £250,000 invested in Australian Government Securities.)
Area planted Approx. 120,000 acres
Bankers Bank of New Zealand and their Agents
Head Office Kembla Building, Margaret Street, Sydney
Sole Brokers Smith Wylie & Co., Ltd.
Branches: Throughout Australia, New Zealand and the Federated Malay States. London, Bombay,
Java, Hong Kong and Shanghai.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Poverty
Piont
“C.M.” : Anew ideaGn first nights struck
the New Piccadilly Theatre in London. The
management invited a houseful of taxi-
drivers, so that they’d know where the place
was.
“Craiser”: A quality that distinguishes
“Love Lies,” at Melbourne King’s, is its
humor. One rich line is where a comedian
points to a statue of the Venus de Milo and
remarks that her lamentable condition was
brought about by her habit of biting her
finger-nails. Enthusiasm evaporates, how-
ever, when it comes to the alleged humor
interpolated locally. References to a young
woman whose affairs have figured largely in
the gutter press lately may raise the ready
laugh from morons and sadists, but they
stamp the perpetrator as the typical social
coward, always ready to join in the hound-
ing down of an outlaw. There is no funda-
mental difference between the dress-circle
laughter that greets the lines about this lady
and the yowls of a party of 100 p.c.
Americans engaged in lynching a nigger.
“Shoot, Darn Yuh”: One of the cute
stunts of “Shanghai Lady”—probably the
clumsiest film to visit Australia for a twelve-
month—-is concerned with getting over the
language difficulty. Each scene between
Celestials opens with a burst of guttural
noises which is presumably meant to be taken
for Chinese. Then one yellow man says,
“Stay, only English spoken here,” after
which the Chows are miraculously endowed
with the gift of tongues and speak the, purest
Oxford accent. The same device was used
on the old silent screen, but it didn’t seem
so incongruous. A spray of hieroglyphics
supposed to represent Greek or Polish or
something would appear and immediately
resolve themselves into a translation.
“L.H.P.”: “Ten Nights in a Bar-room”
(B. 19/3/’3O), written by Willian Pratt,
was often ascribed on the bills for advertis-
ing purposes to the Rev. Henry Ward
Beecher. It was first produced at the New
York National in 1858. Versions soon fil-
tered across the Pacific. Jimmy Rainford
made quite a star part of Joe Morgan, the
hero addicted to booze. Sydney last saw
the money-making slab of propaganda at the
old Standard in 1897, when the Bob Henry
co. played to admission by silver coin. Some
performances in Sydney roused the supporters
of booze to disparaging remarks, and on
sundry occasions ushers had a strenuous
time heaving the interjectors Out. But then,
from all acounts, playgoing in the ’sixties
and ’seventies was full of adventure.
“L. de R.”: A member of the Tait family
recently stated very emphatically that there
would be no more grand opera unless condi-
tions changed, the last season having cost
the Firm £40,000. The reason given was
the inevitable talkies. The argument is super-
ficial. There is a world-wide loss of interest
in gr’opera, and it started before the talkies.
The last Australian season was fairly suc-
cessful, but that was largely due to the fact
that an opera first-night is a social
occasion which draws as many people indif-
ferent to singing drama as a Melbourne Cup
does persons who are bored with racing. In
my opinion the violent uprush of realism
since the war has doomed the fat prima
donna masquerading as Little Butterfly, and
the average Italian opera is being found
out as the hollowest of bellowdrama. Another
Australian season will be a commercial pro-
position when (1) feminine performers
weigh under half a ton and are as lovely
as their voices, (2) tenors have a higher
conception of acting than thumping their
chests at intervals of half a minute, and (3)
themes are rational enough to keep the pro-
gramme girls from doubling up with laughter.
“Cine Ma”: After returning from England
very despondent over the future of the British
talkie, Stuart Doyle is now convinced that
the industry is in a position to deliver the
goods. His organisation will shortly launch
“Splinters,” which has had such a good
reception in the Cold Land that it threatens
to become a serial, with “Splinters Encore”
and “Splinters in the Navy” as succeeding
chapters. Joe Hislop, the Scotchman with
the glorious tenor, who visited Australia a
couple of years ago, will be heard in “The
Loves of Robert Burns,” an operetta. An-
other old acquaintance, Seymour Hicks, will
be seen and heard in “Sleeping Partners,”
the rapid French farce which stirred the
“S. M. Herald’s” inhibitions to such an
extent that, to spare the old lady, Hicks cut
out a torrential embrace after the first night
in Sydney. Mabel Poulton, who gave a fine
performance in “The Constant Nymph,” a
silent picture, will appear in “Taxi for Two.”
There is one thing about these English his-
trions —one feels fairly confident that when
they open their mouths they won’t put their
feet in them.
“McAus”: Australia is not the onlv
country victimised by wildly inaccurate
German films (B. 12/3/’3O). Recently a
Londofi paper featured a Teuton portrayal
of Scottish history in the sixteenth century
which presented the respectable citizens of
Edinburgh universally attired in kilts. The
garment affected by Mary Queen of Scots
(in her great vamp scene with John Knox)
was of an unknown brand of tartan and
considerably briefer than the modern skirt.
“Stormer”: “Dramofilm” was out a bit
over “The Good Oil” (B. 2/4/’80). As
“M.G.S.” said in the first place, it was
written by Australian Edward Carroll, who
has been with the New York “World” for
over 16 years. It smells of the Texas oil-
fields, but was first staged at the Lennox
Little Theatre (N.Y.) under the title of
“Dinkum.” Later, in Adelaide, it appeared as
“The Easy Mark”; it did not see produc-
tion under that tag in New York. It was put
ë
ē
ONE GLEAM OF HOPE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ė
ę
BILL O'C.


Banking, Public Companies, etc,
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNVARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. . - £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares .. • • • • 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
a t interest fo t
fixed period'
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 985,000
£2,235,400
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,485,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia
London Offick: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
%\[t
e
è
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms ot Auditors —
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. FOWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
3C Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
Experimenting!
How much a year do
you waste in unneces-
sary experiments?
Cut waste and
advertise with a
“Result Bringer.”
“The
Telegraph ”
({Brisbane)
Has proved itself over
58 years a good “Result
Bringer” for all adver-
tisers.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co„ Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Sydney Representative:
N. L. ROBERTS,
Country Press Co-op. Co. ot Aust., Ltd.,
Barrack Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Shipping, etc.
Holiday in HAWAII
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN Excursion Bookings are
now open to Australians planning to spend this Winter
in Hawaii’s summer sunshine. Leave on May 29, June 26 or
July 24 by the s.s. Niagara or Aorangi for a delightful voyage
via Auckland and Suva to Honolulu.
First Saloon, Second Saloon,
£75 - RETURN - £55
ALTERNATIVE TOURS ARE:
Auckland— Fiji T onga
Samoa or Sydney
Noumea Suva.
ALL PARTICULARS FROM:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
247 George St., Sydney.
59 William St., Melb. C 1.
N\
CANADIAN -AUSTRALASIAN
LINE—EXCURSIONS
m
m
m rm
„ 9he
G»ll<y tf\eso|onions
Full of charm and interest the Solomon
Islands are only 7 days’ steaming north-
east of Sydney.
To those in search of an Ideal Sea
Trip the opportunity should be now
availed of for a Holiday Cruise among
these Wonderful Coral Islands.
The S.S. “MATARAM” sails from Sydney
30th April and 11th June, visiting more
than a score of Picturesque Island Ports.
Round Trip 4\ Weeks.
Fare £4l Return.
Write for Booklet No. 52/S to
BURNS, PHILP S CO. LTD.
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
“The B.P. Magazine,” richly illustrated in color. 96 pages
of travel, story and pictures. 1/- copy. All newsagents.
bank
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
' With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
é
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150.000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
588 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,730,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,200,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL * - - 4,739,012 10 0
£13,678,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman) ; .
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND; Major-General
the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
Ml Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted. _
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shippin
Huddart ParkerLlH 1
Wiagrni floe,,t
Fast Pasaeriga'
Stoarii3lii|i9
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular su ’ l
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and
Particulars to be obtained on appßen 1 * . . t ,. t
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to * Alp]
and vice versa as per daily papers.
Between
bourne and Launceston as nor dadv P< P ,'_ ED
For full particulars apply HUdDART PARK
Collins Street, Melbourne: Bridge su aot. ’
For Workshop
Home & Farm
JJJ3 ' a 'S Xt^
716
A genuine Sievert Blow Lamp for motorists,
radio work and general use. Every household
and workshop has need of a Blow Lamp at
times. The low price of 7/6 brings the
Sievert within reach of all.
Approximately 5 inches high.
Burns for an hour at one filling.
Supplied with special safety valve and a patent
self-cleaning device.
Petrol can be used down to the last drop.
Directions supplied with each lamp.
£JS-Pfierson^)
PTY., LTD.
SYDNEY ...
MELBOURNE
51 Bathurst Street
582 Collins Street
ê
It heals as
it cleanses
Antiseptic
Soothing
The perfect toilet soap must be
more than a cleanser —it must
also keep the skin in good con-
dition, freeing it from all cause
of irritation. CUTICURA
SOAP contains the medicinal
and healing properties of
CUTICURA; it brings to the
skin Health, as well as Clean-
liness, keeping it smooth and
clear.
Every member of the family
should use CUTICURA SOAP
regularly.
Soap Is., Ointment Is. and 2s.
Talcum Is. 3d. Sample each free.
Address: “R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. 8.W.”
(yticura
Qbe Dominion.
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily .
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion" is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481. WELLINGTON
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from —
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains cvcvijthiny a woman needs to know.


ë
Lubricate
your machinery
as you do your car
by tbe
TecalemiT
High Pressure System
TECALEMIT SERVICE STATIONS:
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., Mjy Street Pertn
Cornell, Ltd., 122 Piri 6 Street . Adelaide
Keep Bros. & Wood Pty., Ltd., Bateman Street Melbourne
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street Sydney
Martin, Wilson Bros., Ltd., 299 Adelaide Street .. Brisbane
Factory Representative: Mr. JAMES THORNELL, 312 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
TECALEMIT, LTD., Mitre House, Scrubbs Lane, London, N.W. 10., England.
PROVED!
Those advertisers who sure in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Are
you VISITING
THE STATES
THIS YEAR...?
. , . then plan now to stay at The
Clift Hotel while you are in
San Francisco.
The Clift is in the center of his-
toric .and beautiful San Francisco
—close to theatres, shops, parks,
and points of scenic interest.
Every room is equipped with
radio reception apparatus.
540 rooms, each with bath.
ē
Rates: from #3
(about 125.) single,
and from $5 (about
one guinea) double,
pet day, upward.
Full refund on wire-
less request for ac-
commodations from
your steamer.
iii iii
siis
r r,''
rr 'Ho
r 'iK
"t::
r "r 22
L'lr
n^rirHlTT^tmTro
THE
CLIFT HOTEL
SAN FRANCISCO
CALIFORNIA, U. S. A.
lr«
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak without Notes, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Canfac”: The 137,000 fruit-canning
record of Australia went by the board on
April 1 -when 150 tons of Pullars cling-
peaches were processed into 174,000 con-
tainers at the State Cannery, Leetoil
(N.S.W.). On the same day the tin-making
plant put up another record of 165,000 on
two lines of can-making machinery.
* * * *
“G.D.M.”: Back in 1889 it was the usual
custom, in order to avoid paying foreign
exchange on London, for a merchant to buy
shares in any company with a London regis-
ter, pay for them here and send the London
certificate and transfer to the London
creditor. We made a lot of money out of
this export of scrip, of which the late F.
W. Prell was the originator, and I was
an ardent operator. Scrip is equally as good
to export as wool and wheat and is not
nearly as bulky.
sj: aft $ H*
“Larrapinta”: The Onkaparinga Woollen
Mills, an old-established S.A. concern which
turns out a rug with an almost world-wide
fame, recently received the following from
a N.S.W. timberman: “The Onkaparinga rug
I bought in 1905 is wearing thin at last;
only to be expected, I suppose, seeing that
it has been in constant use for 25 years. . ..
Let me know the name of the nearest retailer
where I can pick out another.” And yet
Bradford professes grave doubts whether we
are yet capable of weaving our own wool!
* * * *
“Morkrum”: In recent years telegraph
business has receded; the speedier ’phone has
come into favor. Ignoring this tendency, the
telegraph branch has linked all capital cities
with enough costly machinery to handle 10
times the business that is ever likely to flow
during its lifetime. The Murray Multiplex
requires a regular standing army of atten-
dants and mechanics. Also, perfect cir-
cuits are necessary, which means heavy up-
keep expenses. Another huge annual loss
is predicted.
* * * *
“Rotom”: The expedition with which
motors cope with heavy haulage as compared
with the old-time animal traction was
recently demonstrated by Mitchell brothers
of Narooma (N.S.W.). With three motor-
lorries they shifted from the wharf to the
bridge in course of construction a mile away
217 tons of steel girders in one day. They
figured that their sawmill bullock-teams
would have taken two weeks on the job.
* * * *
“Bert the Carpenter” : It doesn’t look as
if we can help Maoriland to save her kauris
from extinction, for, unlike many trees which
do better in a milder climate than that of
their homeland, the M.L. kauri ( Agatliis
australis) cannot be grown at all here.
The Queensland kauri ( Agathis robusta),
which is a first cousin, grows readily almost
anywhere and is ready for the sawmill at 30
to 40 years of age. It produces a highly
useful softwood, but it doesn’t approach the
M.L. variety for quality.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: It would be hard to over-esti-
mate the value that Norway sets on the
commercial possibilities of the Antarctic. In
these waters at the same time as the Dis-
covery was a Norwegian ship with a research
party on board which included Hjorth, one
of the world’s greatest biologists. Three
attempts have lately been made to establish
Australian companies, and the most promis-
ing is a Melbourne venture. The idea is
to purchase a Norwegian ship and expert
crew, and gradually initiate Australians into
the whaling business. The applications for
shares have been disappointing, however. As
one of the directors remarked to me, “The
people of Australia stand on the shore and
look inland.”
* * * #
“Jimmy Dux”: Twelve months ago an
oily Jew from Sydney inveigled me out of
£l2 Is. Bd. as a premium on a united acci-
dent and sickness policy. The following
month The Bulletin’s “Wild Cat” page
mentioned that this company had sold half of
its business to another company that would
not produce a balance-sheet. Later I learned
from the same source that the first company
(the Federal Building Society) was in com-
pulsory liquidation, Last month I received
notice that my premium was due, and last
week I was notified (by type-written signa-
ture) that the policy had lapsed, apparently
through my oversight, and that I was privi-
leged to give them another chance to collect
from me another £l2 Is. Bd. And so the
game goes on.
❖ Hi ❖ *
“Heliotrope”: The AndersomHitcheock
tragedy and other near-tragedies of last year
set D. L. Mcßryde, a Queensland ex-Digger,
investigating the possibilities of hand-mirror
signalling for attracting attention in emer-
gency cases. He satisfied himself that with
no instrument beyond a small mirror, it is
possible to make flashes carry over a land-
distance of 30 miles or more —it is a fact
that aeroplanes have thus been signalled
over six miles away and ships at sea over
10. Carrying the idea further, he invented
(and patented) an auto-helio beacon, a set
of mirrors which a clockwork mechanism
causes to rotate during the day and to flash
out signals during the hours of sunlight.
The idea is that such beacon stations might
be located at intervals on the trans-Australian
air-track to Wyndham or Darwin, so that
airmen would have a defined route to take
and, in case of mishap, searchers would
have far less difficulty in locating them than
at present. Thd model for this auto-helio
beacon has already been favorably renorted
on by experts. It seems up to the Common
wealth Air Department to examine the inven-
tion and have proper tests carried out into
the possibilities of the beacon as well as the
utilities of hand-mirror signalling devices.
* * * *
“Centurion”: Since a reformed War Office
turned military tradition upside down after
the Great War and issued safety razors to
the troops in lieu of the hoop-iron implements
used by the men who fought at Minden the
annual contracts for the supply 0 f the gadgets
have gone to America. This year, for the
first time, British contracts have gained the
day. and though Thomas Atkins will still
continue to e at Argentine beef and mutton
he will at least be able to enjoy an Empire
shave. *


Rough going
NEVER STOPS
' I*- .* ' /' ’' . , >' N ' ; ■, ■ , : ' ' ' - ’' , * ’ ' f ; ■ , ;' ' ' v • .
THE WHIPPET
r pHE WHIPPET’S long wheel-
base, shock absorbers, oversize
balloon tyres and longer springs
all combine to effect superb riding
qualities.
Greater economy of operation, 30
and more miles to the gallon and
low maintenance cost are important
advantages also offered by 1930
Whippet Four.
Extra cross members in the frame
of the Whippet, together with the
advanced type of frame construction
and the employment of heavier
materials, give greater strength and
rigidity.
See and drive the new 1930
Whippet at your earliest opportunity.
You will find its beauty instantly
appealing, its performance remark-
ably brilliant, and long service will
prove Whippet’s dependability and
operating economy.
m
A * -t
>v I
%
*
m
i
n
n
%
i
'
&3& :
*5
HU
2s2ii
■H
LONG WHEELBASE. LONGER SPRINGS GIVE THIS
LOW-PRICED CAR EXCEPTIONAL RIDING QUALITIES
<£Z?« 1950
WIHIIPPET
FOUR
STATE DISTRIBUTORS
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
68-70 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
OVERLAND VICTORIA PTY., LTD.,
117-121 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LTD.,
148-150 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
E. G. EAGER & SON, LTD.,
Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, Brisbane.
ADAMS MOTORS, LIMITED,
442 Murray Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
53-63 Bathurst Street, Hobart.


nSS
iC.\s
The Finest Gun Dogs
In England
are fed regularly on Ken-L-Ration, the
dog food supreme. Rich in food value.
In Tins. READY TO SERVE.
A Perfectly-balanced Ration.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB
P. O. Box 1821, Melbourne
Ken-I; Ration
A great drink this
' :
RESCH’S d.a.
The famous DINNER ALE
7he centre of Queens/onc/s
'ctisfingu/shed Soc/o/ Z/^?.
BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Lines.
è
SPORTINO
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Visions of an Easter meeting as wet as
when Don Moon won the Doncaster and
Piastoon the Sydney Cup haunted the A.J.C.
officials on Wednesday. Nearly three inches
of rain had fallen at Randwiek in 36 hours;
and the owner of Greenline said he would
pi'obably have to scratch his horse, who had
lOst. 21b., while McShortodds cannily reduced
the prices Of .iproved mudlarks like Myariu
and Venetian Lady. As it happened, Thurs-
day and Friday were fine, and the meeting
opened in perfect autumn weather. The
track was expected to be a bit on the slow
side, but the Doncaster distance was tra-
versed in lmin. 37sec., and that of the Sires’
Produce Stakes in lmin. 25sec., while a
plater like Greensea cut out the “seven” iu
lmin. 24isec. There were no signs of a
depression in the attendance or the wager-
ing. and strangers must have marvelled at
both.
“The most open Doncaster for many
years,” said the old hands; and victory, in
fact, went to a 25-to-l chance. Unfortu-
nately the field —27 —proved too big, and in
future if the number of acceptances exceeds
20 it will be necessary to run the race in
divisions —or, better still, some of the hope-
less brigade will have to be excluded by club
ukase. Before the crowd of horses,had gone
a quarter of a mile it could be seen that
those behind the first 10 might as well be
in their stables for all the chance they had.
Toper (20 to 11 and Waugoola (33 to
were then leading from -High Disdain (6
to 1), who had ousted Taisho (7 to 1) from
favoritism; others prominent ahead of die
struggling pack were Venetian Lady (25 to
1), Parkwood (16 to 1) and Greenline (8 to
1). Darby Muuro, on Venetian Lady, had
the lead a couple of furlongs from home, and
even at that point the mare looked a sure
winner. A tremendous shout went up as
Taisho, who was running eighth or ninth,
fell and Urunaway and Durward came down
over him; Durward was so badly hurt that
he had to be shot. Venetian Lady, gallop-
ing smoothlV won by a length from High
Disdain, who came again after seeming to
weaken; Raisin (20 to 1), finishing fast ou
the outside, was third, Toper fourth and
Waugoola, Mystic Peak and Parkwood next.
So Venetian Lady repeated Don Moon’s
achievement of winning the Challenge Stakes
and the Doncaster in the same year. She
is a five-year-old chestnut mare by Wolaroi
—De Nancy, owned by “S. Arkell” and
trained by E. F. Walker; and her form
during the last year has been good. How-
ever, it is doubtful if the “Arkell” cheque
would have been worth £3189 if the luck
of the race had not favored the chestnut
mare; it is questionable if she would have
defeated Walker’s other candidate, Troilus,
who, backed from twelves to eights, could
never get out of the ruck. It was Walker’s
day out, for he ran second to Greensea (5
to 1) in the first division of the Vaucluse
Handicap with his own mare Pavilion (6
to 1), and took the second division with
Poitiers (2 to 1), who races in F. A. Moses’s
coloi's. Poitiei's was ridden, and that most
vigorously, by Bartle, who had had a bad
fall off Taisho. Bartle must be a game
fellow; on Sunday he was unable to leave
his bed.
The Sires’ Produce Stakes pi’oved that
Melbourne owns the pick of the season’s two-
year-olds. On Flemington form The Doc-
tor’s Orders is far from being the best of
them; yet, going out at 10 to 1, he made a
hack of Veilmond (evens) and seven others,
Balloon King (25 to 1), who is raced by
the John Brown estate, being only a short
head behind the well-beaten favorite. The
Doctor’s Orders is an upstanding black geld-
ing by Tippler (sire of Toper and Lorason)
out of Neirene, and is owned by Agar
Wynne, sometime Postmaster-General. He
was a cheap yearling, bringing only 300
guineas; on Saturday he earned £4BlO.
Phar Lap’s St. Leger added £2383 to his
winnings. He wanted to go faster than Pike
would let him, and the jockey had a good
hold of his head when the chestnut com-
pleted the 14 furlongs (in 3min. 7sec.) three
or four lengths in advance of Sir Ribble, who
■was a length and a half ahead of Peace-
maker —there were no other starters. Few
bookmakers wanted to bet on it; the price
varied from 20 to 1 to 33 to 1 on.
The Autumn Stakes was the most excit-
ing event of the day. Sneaking a run on
the rails, Pike nearly stole it on Amounis
(evens), who has never won over the dis-
tance (a mile and a half) at Randwiek; but
Roy Reed, who had taken Nightmarch (5 to
4 on) round three horses, got him going at
his top in time to snatch the verdict by half
a head. Donald (50 to 1) w’as only half a
length back third, and immediately became
one of the favorites for the Sydney Cup.
But the time, 2min. 33isec., showed that it
was not a truly-run race.
Raised only 141 b.
for his second in
the Doncaster and
his thi-ee previous
successes (two at
Rosehill and
the other at
Warwick Farm),
High Disdain made
light of his task in
the La Perouse
Handicap on the
second day at
Randwiek. By con-
trast Greenline,
who went from
lOst. 21b. in the
Doncaster to lOst.
131 b. in the six-fur-
long race, was
badly treated : yet
many preferred
Greenline to Ber-
nard’s horse. High
Disdain soon hit
the front and won
brilliantly from
Toper (up 111 b.)
and Cimabue in
lmin. llfsee. He
went out at 9 to 2.
A field of 16, very much below the average
in quality, faced the barrier for the Sydney
Cup. That disappointing brute Star God
was favorite at 3 to 1: Donald and Gwillian
G. were next at 7 to 1, after better odds
had been laid on the cotfrse and very much
better at. the clubs. There was late money
for Rionscup and Leadight at eights and tens
the pair. When a furlong or so of the long
journey had been traversed The Bulletin’s
selection, Gwillian G., was leading a<nd Star
God was last. Gwillian G. continued to
make the running from Royal Smile (25 to
1). Rionscup and Soulton (16 to 1), setting
a smart pace. Coming to the home turn the
Queensland-owned' Royal Smile drew up to
the Warwick Farm Cup winner, but
it was only on sufferance; when Simp-
son called on her > Gwillian G. drew
away again, and she* romped home from
Royal Smile in the race-record time of 3min.
22-isec., Soulton (16 to 1) being a fair third.
Sir Ribble ran-a-good race after being left
at the post, but nothing could have beaten
Gwillian G., who - Iras been a model of con-
sistency this season. A six-year-old brown
mare by .Colugo (son of The Welkin) out of
Souitorxa, she is owned by S. A. Marden and
is trained by W. A. Ross, the Rosehill man.
Marden was reported in a Sydney daily as
having asserted that he had not backed the
sturdy brown mare and did not think she
would run out two miles. Another daily
credited Walker with declaring that Troilus
was the better of his Doncaster pair. What
chance is there for the ordinary punter when
such things are said by men in the best
position to know?
For other events of the meeting:—•
All-Aged Stakes: Pliar Lap ; next,
Amounis.
Cumberland Stakes: Plxar Lap; next,
Nightmarch.
Coogee Handicap: Lorason; next, Troilus.
City Handicap: Bacchus; next, King
Conrad.
A.J.C. Plate: Phar Lap.
Parkwood and one of Connolly’s pair, Dark
Man and Bi-oken Doll, should be worth con-
sidering on the last day.
* H: * *
When he paid a fancy price for imported
Chersonese, with foal at foot, A. T. Creswick
hoped that Heroic’s dam would help to
blazon his name on the turf. Thracian (brother
to Heroic) gave Rampion’s backers a fright in
the 1926 Victoria Derby and then faded into
obscurity. Cimbrian said Hebrus, by Devizes-
Chersonese, have won races; but it looks as
if money was wasted in sending them to
Randwiek. Creswick employs three trainers.
Jim Pengelly is in charge of the Allendale
Stock Farm at Mentone, with its private
training ti-ack; Lou Robertson has been
entrusted with Cimbrian and Hebrus, w r hile
Joe Cripps, nephew of the man who owned
Boz and trained Tarcoola, gets the station-
bred prads and jumpers.-
Cripps has landed five races in succession
for Creswick. The success of Canvoola over
hurdles at Williamstown on Saturday was
the latest feather in his cap. On form the
gelding ought to have been favorite and
actually opened so. However, “Darcy” Eccles
plariked the boodle down on Tirade to such
purpose that he shortened with a rush from
7 to 1 to 3to 1. Stanley Reid, one-time
crack jumping rider, has Tirade, in his
stable. Carwoola won handsomely.
After the bad luck experienced with Lucky
Saint (raced in conjunction with his brother
V.A.T.C. committeeman Ben Chaffey), Mer-
son Cooper was delighted at Prince Viol
scrambling home in the Easter Stakes at
Williamstown. A half-interest in Prince Viol
ALWAYS THE GENTLEMAN.
BILA (slightly sober): “’Ow are they kitin', mate?”
is held by T. Lyons, of Hobart. The son of
Violoncello was deemed a hard nixt to crack
in the last Melbourne Cup. but sustained
injury while racing on Derby day and had to
be put by. A mile is rather short for the
chestnut, and Williamstown punters allowed
him to go out at nice odds. The win was
lucky, as the favorite. Byron, met With a bad
passage and failed by only a head to over-
haul Prince Viol. Bert Price, who trains
Byron, is a sou of D. J. Price, and possesses
the paternal thoroughness of method.
Eight years have elapsed since Harvest
King (Comedy King—Hai’vest Home) lauded
the A.J.C. St. Leger, turning the tables on
Furious, who had vanquished him in the
corresponding event a<t Flemington. Harvest
King, a colt of commanding size and bold
action, retired to the stud early; but, none
of his progeny was seen in winning brackets
until Pearl Fisher did the trick in the
second division of the Juvenile Handicap
at Williamstown. Substantial odds were
obtained. Wlia«t made the result additionally
unpalatable was that Pearl Fisher downed
the favorite, Abbreviation.
Apprentice J. Raffaele captured a double
with Prince Viol and Sa-rtaress, each start-
ing at 7 to 1. Sartaress inflicted defeat on
the unfortunate Loquacity, who was a short-
priced favorite. The general body of backers
collected once only—over Ronald Cameron’s
Chalaki (6 to 4) in the Werribee Welter.
* :!: * *
“Fitzeray”: Victoria’s latest attempt to
introduce the tofalisator provides for com-
pulsory installation of the machine at Flem-
ington, Caulfield, Williamstown, Moonee
Yalley and Ascot courses, and country clubs
will be granted permission to use the thing if
applied fox-. Metropolitan clubs must collect
10 per cent, of the turnover (as against
12£ per cent, in Sydney), returning half to
the Government. For country clubs tne
division will be per cent, for the club
and 4-J per cent, for the Government. The
Government will turn over its share to
charitable institutions, while it will also fix
ticket prices and the form in which divi-
dends are to be paid.
* # # $
“Barrier”: Broken Hill racing clubs talk
of installing loud-speakers to broadcast the
running of bigger events in bigger cities;
the idea is to attract bettors who now stay
in town. If the idea works, local pro-
grammes will be neatly arranged so as to
sandwich the events in sight between those
in the air.
M. (and Rafferty) Rules
The classically named Orlando Leopardi
proved himself a game and clever middle-
weight in his Sydney Stadium tussle with
Jack Haines. Light on his feet and using
a snappy straight left with a quickly fol-
lowing right cross,'lie outpointed the Aussie
in the first round; but Haines was on top
in the next, scoring with hard lefts to the
face, and continued to force the pace. From
the sixth he paid special attention to the
body, and Leopardi began to crumple up,
although occasionally getting a good left
home. The referee stopped it abruptly in
the tenth; Haines the winner. The Italian
weighed list. 4j;lb. and Haines I,lst. 31b.
Footbrawl
“Stand Off”: Sydney Rugby Union fol-
lower's will see an old friend in action again
this season in the person of “Billy” Sheehan,
the brilliant Sydney Uni. and Waratah five-
eighth, who goes in to strengthen the already
exceptionally good Randwiek back division.
With his inseparable cobber R. G. Stanley
he figured in many matches for N.S.W.
against Maoriland, and played behind
“Wakka” Walker in the games against the
Springboks in 1921. When the Warutahs
returned, “Billy” stayed behind for an ex-
tended medical course, and figured with
distinction for London Hospitals and Black-
heath in many games,. He was a strong tip
for an England cap, also, but it is difficult
nowadays for a “colonial” player, however
good, to get a footing in an English team.
* 3: *
“Bond”: The Wales v. England Rugby
match had an incident that in a novel would
be called far-fetched. The English XV was
in Wales, fit and well, on the morning of the
game. A forward fell out, injured—and the
reserve man was a back! Somebody sug-
gested Sam Tucker, a stalwart veteran, but
Tucker was at Bristol. He was caught on
the telephone in his office at 12.30. At
1.30 he was in a ’plane and crossing the
Bristol Channel to Wales. Outside Cardiff
his pilot picked a field and landed. Tucker
had to run a long way, and finish his journey
into the town in a coal-lorry. And, exactly
as in any screen picture, he had a big share
in helping England to a win.
$ $ $ $
“Amateur Pro.”: The balance-sheet of the
Rugby League Kangaroos’ tour in the
North of England shows that in spite of
increased prices the takings were less than
on previous trips. . This was offset by a-
severe cutting of expenses, and the profit,
close on £7OOO, is greater than that of the
last expedition. In addition to a bonus to
players of £l5O each, Queensland and
N. Leagues pouch £ll5B apiece. The
club season in Australia has not been so
satisfactory, the clubs absorbing most of
the reduced profits.
SJ: * *. *
“Hotham”: One would suppose that the
lot iof a Victorian football umpire would
have that of the Gilbertian policeman beaten
down the course when it comes, to a question
of undesirability. Every season one hears
of umpires being escorted through what the
Melbourne press likes to style “a howling
mob.” At one famous Melbourne ground at
least there, is a wiremetted tunnel through
which the ump. may make his escape in
comparative safety. Too often he is waylaid
outside the ground with distressing results
which frequently appear in the police-court
reports. That didn’t stop 250 applications
coming in a few days ago for 90 field um-
pireships required by the Victorian League.
The possible explanation is that one famous
ump., lured to Tassy at £l5 a week last year,
has returned to Melbourne—inducement not
stated.
Thanks largely to Ross and Macfarlane,
Maoriland defeated teams of golfers from
Vic. and N, S. Wales, and retains the Kirk-
Windeyer Cup.
(Continued on next page.)
THE SCAPEGOATS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Premier Hogan (Vic.), speaking on the Total-
isator Bill, said he had been assured that some
of the big* bookmakers were going out of
because they were broke. Mr. Ivnox said that tne
sooner bookmakers were starved out of existence
the better for the community.”
The odds in loud, persuasive tones we roar,
Industrious as beavers or as bees,
But, oh ! the stoutest heart may well grow
sore ...
Beneath the bravest front at gibes like
We bear the heat and burden of the day,
Sei'enely cool and blithely boisterous ;
Our winnings snavel or our losses pay,
Yet someone’s always slinging off at us.
Featui'e the turf without us —half its choice
Allurement vanished and its witching wile .
Nathless each week some puritanic voice
Denounces us for vilest of the vile.
Pariahs and outcasts we, whose scarlet sms
Infuriated Pharisees discuss.
What if the favorite or a roughie wins,
Someone has always got it in for us.
The targets for the comic artist’s gall
And for the poetaster’s mordant jest,
Steadfast and undeterred the odds we bawl,
But there’s an aching heart in many a
breast.
And now a lot of us are in the ditch,
While pious souls exult to see them thus
And all the rest would to perdition pitch—
Has no one got a decent word for us?
N.S.W.
IFORD.


W. W. GREENER
GUNS
» *
T
Shom^
W. W. GREENER LTD., Birmingham
Wholesale Australian Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.,
405>07 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, C.l.
i
a rttS« *i A ?oU
you
, „*
s£«£Sj£y>.-.
v*»?VW ge 1\
v *ter** e.s,
M a^ aC^P
Will fully inflate the average motor-
tyre in one minute.
THE
RENRUT
QUADRUPLE
HAND PUMP
Price, 45/-
(With Gauge,
5/ - extra.)
If unable to obtain,
write to our Factory
Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Mel-
bourne, Australia.
s
Comfort & Service
at Low Cost
Quiet refinement, perfect service,
superior cuisine—these things make
the Grosvenor a good place to live
in—for a day or forever. 300 rooms,
100 bathrooms, spacious lounge,
yale locks on every door. Tariff,
from £3/10/-.
Finest Unlicensed Uiotel
Opp. Railway Sto.. North Terrace. ADELAIDE'
Bert '“stroke cant keep that
PACE UP?
Gect: w Is IT TOO PAST ? M
ROWING
PORTY TO THE tV\INUTE
CqERT •/'(3ee 1 IT TAKES OUR 010 car
AH HOUR TO DO THAT.”
Tbc Nineteenth Hole
me lNineteenin rroie
“D. : The Lakes Club’s course, on which
rlie opening event was staged the other day,
should train on into about the best round
Sydney. It is more sporting than its
neighbor Kensington, which is almost as
naturally uneventful as Royal Sydney, and
it has the advantage over the North Shore
courses of being virtually a seaside links.
The tees are all sandy and the lakes from
which the club has taken its name have
the appearance of little land-locked harbors,
It is just on 6500 yards, and its shortest
hole is a 152. Many of the greens are
imitations of classic Scottish models; the
eleventh, for example, is a reproduction of
a famous North Berwick green. Bogey is
79 at present, but those figures will come
down when the fairways of the first two
holes are improved. Most of the fairways
at the other end of the course are in fine
shape already, and so are the greens, the
water supply being unlimited.
* * * *
“Cranoustie”: One of those people who
like to confuse the sublime with the ridicu-
lons has drawn up a ranking list of the
world’s six best golfers, past and present,
The job is as hopeless as trying to pick the
six neatest pairs of ankles in Pitt-street since
long skirts went out. For what it is worth
the list runs: Jones, Harry Vardon, Hagen,
Taylor, Braid and Macdonald Smith.
* * * *
“Miramar” : Maoriland golfers have been
arguing as to the date of the first game of
golf in the Dominion. One party claims that
a person named Pryde bought a set of clubs
in 1885 at a lost-property sale, and infected
the Shivery Isles with the virus. Forty-five
years later a St. Andrew’s Scot who had
visited M.L. the year the clubs were found
heard the story, and at once announced
himself the owner of the lost property. This
aspect of the affair has so intrigued the
debaters that the question of who really
started golf in M.L. has faded into insig-
nificance.
* * * *
“Hotham”: ,T. Linquist, the new pro-
fessional at the Albert Park Club, can
claim a fairly extensive acquaintance with
the game as played in Victoria. He has
been with the Eastern and Sorrento clubs,
and has also been the guide, philosopher
and friend of aspirants, young and old, at
Sale, Kerang, Swan Hill, Benalla and Ben-
digo. An excellent instructor and club-
maker, he is a sound and solid player who
has never figured much in the bigger side of
golf. Now he is located at a metropolitan
club he will have a better chance to con-
centrate on his game.
* * * *
“Old Q.” : In spite of every wangle that
can be worked, Brisbane City Council still
hangs in the wind in the matter of starting
the long-promised municipal golf-course. The
site in Victoria Park has been decided on
and plans for the construction of a 9- and
19-hole course have long been available to
the civic fathers. With all that nothing has
been done, and there seems no prospect of a
start. Usually aldermen are keen on backing
any enterprise which returns a certain profit,
There is nothing to better a municipal course
in that direction, as countless instances,
including several in Australia, have shown.
* * * *
“The M'cHaggis” : There has been quite a
controversy of late concerning the “master
eye” in golf, it being alleged that all golfers
instinctively use one eye to the exclusion or
semi-exclusion of the other. This has nothing
to do with the charge of one-eyedness fre-
quently hurled at umpires, referees and
racing judges, but is alleged to be forced
on the player by reason of the peculiar
golf stance. Golfers, whether they use one
eye or not, have frequently been charged
with seeing double, and especially after
lu nch. There is also the golfer afflicted with
the sort of deranged vision which causes
him / or her ) to mistake your brand-new
sg> spec i a i White Flyer for his (or her)
anc i en t a nd battered repaint when picking
up<
’
,y, -.y,
Ine Watermen
“Fitzeray”: Melbourne’s Henley-on-Yarra
regatta, which has done so much to prove to
the Australian rowing world that the Yarra
is a river, has had a rough spin in the last
year or two with inclement weather. The
managing committee has decided to push the
date further into the Cabbage Garden
equivalent of summer. Hitherto held at the
end of October, the now-classical function
will take place either in the last week of
November or the first in December, as cir-
cumstances may demand. The changed dates
will not suit N.S.W. or Queensland, both
of which States have had oarsmen showing
on the Yarra in past years. Nevertheless,
the Victorians, first to call a tune which
has been followed in more than one State,
have every right to demand that the other
dancers should step to their piping.
* * * *
“Shell”: After his Empire Games? engage-
ment, if any, Pearce may go to Philadelphia
to defend the Gold Cup which an American
enthusiast presented to the winner of the
sculling race aC the last Olympiad. Pity
this great amateur cannot be given a chance
in the Diamond Sculls at Henley. He is
eligible under the altered rules of the
National Amateur Rowing Association, which
date from January 1.
d _. j d i
Z , DaWl
Top Spin ’: The Davis Cup draw has
fallen. luckily for the Australians this time,
It ls inconceivable that the Swiss will whip
our Inds in the opening go at Zurich. Two
°f the most formidable teams which are
t 0 meet in the first round in May are H'un-
gary and Japan. Then will come the winner
°f the Germany and Britain match as the
next game for our men. Australia should
meet Italy—a different side since MorpugQ
dropped out and took to golf—-and the winner
°f that match will then be qualified for the
semi-final of the European zone. The Aussies
should get that far if they run to form.
* * * *
Amateur Pro.” : Tasmania has brought up
the old question of whether players engaged
111 the safe of tennis or other sporting
g°°ds. are to be considered as amateurs,
America, Britain and Continental tennis
authorities have decided , that they cannot
be—that is very definite. N.S.W. has eon-
tinually winked at the practice. The Aus-
tralian controlling body has characteristically
mounted the fence. It has answered the
Tassy move by stating that the matter is
one , for the individual State associations,
adding that persons interested in the sale
of tennis requisites are ineligible to sit as
members of its own executive. And the illogi-
cal old concern lias elected Jack Crawford,
openly connected with the tennis goods trade,
to the captaincy of the Davis Cup team!
* * * *
“Centre Court”: In the days when the
Renshaws, Dohertys and Smiths were
supreme in Wimbledon tennis—the only sort
that mattered then—it was a tradition that
tennis ran in families. That vanished for
years with the advent of the Americans,
Australians and French. It is being repeated,
as far as women’s tennis goes, in America,
The other day the Palfrey sisters won the
National junior championship in doubles and
singles for the fourth year in succession,
Sarah' had to spank her younger sister, Emily,
in the singles. The pair then went on to
beat the Boehm twins for the doubles.
Car and Cycle
“Garry”: The tribulations of Kaye Don
illustrate the degree to which the new order
of motor-speed records is dependent on an
absolutely smooth straight track. Beach
sand, such as is provided in a 20-mile
straight stretch at Daytona, is an ideal sur-
face for speeds up to 100 m.p.h. But when
the speed approaches the 200-m.p.li. mark
the gentlest and most widely-spread series of
ufldulations has an effect on the car like a
set of cobble-stones. For some obscure rea-
son these shocks seem to be felt in direct
ratio, not to the weight, but to the power
of the vehicle. Campbell and Segrave, each
with 900 h.p., were not seriously incon-
venienced ; Keech, with 1500 h.p., had a
good deal of trouble; Don, with 4000 h.p.,
seems to have overstepped the power limit
applicable to beach speeding, and has given
up the chase in disgust.
“0.H.”: Uncle Sam isn’t above picking
up a good tip even if it is in the matter of
automobile manufacture. Quite a lot of
loudly-advertised features of American ears
were copied from English sources, and now
Uncle has taken the baby car to his bosom.
There are now three Yankee makers of mid-
gets to my knowledge. Only one shows
originality. His product has a 5-foot wheel
base, a 4-cyl. motor of about the same
capacity as an Austin 7 —'the maker calls it
20-h.p.—and it sells at 200 dollars. The
originality comes in with the packing case,
which has doors and can be used as a garage,
and the arrangement of the wheels, which are
hung on coils of strong elastic.
* * # *
“Subiaco” : Stuart Williams, the Australian
representative in the coming Isle of Mian
Tourist Trophy races for motor-cycles, passed
through Perth the other day bound for
Britain. Williams has figured in the big
events before, and is leaving nothing to
chance, for he is taking three different types
of machine with him. In the senior event
his mount will be an A.J.S., in the junior a
Velocette, and in the lightweight a New
Imperial. All the machines have an inter-
national reputation, and since the N.S.W
rider has many brilliant performances to his
credit, optimists are hoping he will bring
off the treble event.
❖ * ❖ #
“Pedal”: In one branch of sport, cycling
on track and road,* Australians may fairly
claim to lead the world. Americans allow
that there has never been a greater six-day
cyclist than McNamara, who returned the
other day on a visit to his native Dubbo.
In the sprinting line the country has been
represented abroad —in the U.S.A. chiefly—
by a long line of champions, from Jackie
Clark to Horder and Walker. And in road
races and at following pace there isn’t a
faster pair on earth to-day than Opperman
and Lamb. Opperman’s latest achievement
on the Melbourne Motordrome track, with
Finlay pacing him on a Henderson fitted with
a windshield, was to ride 100 miles in lhr.
39min. 38sec. A hundred miles in a* tick
under a mile a minute! A world’s record is
to be claimed for the marvellous perform-
ance.
Miscellaneous
“Spike”: A. P. Robertson, sometime Vic-
torian schools champion, has been decorated
with the title of world’s champion sprinter
after a series of races at Melbourne Motor-
drome. The lad won the 75 in evens—
—the 130 in 12fsec., and the 100 in
9 13-16 see. His time for the first bettered
Queenslander Tom Miles’s record for the
race by 5-16 sec., while that for the 130 is a
Victorian record. The world’s best is still
Jack Donaldson’s 12sec. dead, put up in
Sydney in 1911. On points, Parker (Q.)
was second, Cooper (Vic.) third, and Hunter
(S.A.) fourth in the series.
* sj: *
“The Gaffer”: The Australian team for
the British Empire Games in Canada was to
have comprised six men, the selectors having
ignored the claims of the women —a wise
decision in view of past Olympiad experi-
ences. Pearce (sculling), Carlton (sprints),
Ryan and Cameron (swimming), all of
N.S.W.; Baseombe (middle distances) and
Gallagher (boxing), both of Vic., were
the chosen six. Carlton has withdrawn-
saying, very sensibly, that he has his life’s
career to consider; and for one reason and
another it is doubtful if any team will go.
* * * *
“Third Base”: The president of the
National League, one of America’s two big
professional organisations, has been making
inquiries as to the prospect of two first-class
teams giving exhibitions in this country. We
had one visit of the sort, in ill-omened 1914,
when McGraw brought out the New York
Giants and the Chicago White Sox, the
party going on to the Philippines and Japan.
It is now announced that teams from the
American and National Leagues are to reach
Sydney in December on a month’s tour, the
Americans paying all expenses and devoting
the profits to the furtherance of baseball in
Australia. More power to their elbows!
$ * * *
“Deep Slip”: The V;C.A. seems to have
tied itself in a knot as a result of its decision
to form itself into a registered co. Delegates
were unanimous in their desire to make a
substantial donation to the Jack Ryder testi-
monial fund. They were legally advised,
however, that they had no power to con-
tribute to such a fund, although if Jack were
“a distressed cricketer” they could have done
it. When the concern was an association,
and not a company, donations to testimonials
could be made; Macartney, for instance, wag
presented with 25 guineas. The Y.C.A.’s
cup of sorrow has been filled to flood level by
a demand for £3OOO tax covering the three
years of the “company’s” life.
H: * =:= *
“ ’Badian”: A Bulletin bard wrote somo
ribald verse about a Chinese general who had
been born in the British West Indies.
History repeats itself in the cabled announce-
ment that one Ah Chong has been playing
for the West Indies in matches against the
Marylebone C. C. A slow lefthander, he
took Hendren’s wicket in his first Test, and
also got Patsy twice in a match against
Trinidad, which may be described as the
Chinese quarter of the West Indies. Chong
had bagged 14 for an average of 17.42 before
his Test selection. He originally hailed from
British Guiana.
Hs # ❖ ❖
“Aigburth” : In spite of his absence from
English cricket last season, Chapman is being
mentioned as England’s captain against the
Australians. If the Kent amateur can pick
up his lost batting form he should be a
good bet, but there is strong support for
Carr, of Notts, who skippered the English-
men in the first three Tests against Collins’s
1926 side. White, who did so well in Aus-
tralia with the ball, and took Chapman’s
place a-s captain in the last Test in Mel-
bourne, is not considered likely to gain a
place in the English side.
#
“Splash”: Water polo in Sydney, which
went out of favor for years because of rough
and foul play, looks like going the same way
again. In a match between Sydney and
Pyrmont, man after man was ordered out of
the water by the umpire. Feeling ran high
among the spectators, members of the crowd
and one or two of the players mixing it will-
ingly. As a grand finale, the mob hooted
both sides impartially, and ended a perfect
evening by pushing one of the officials, fully
clothed, into the water.


EXIDES Fly Over South Pole
in Byrd Plane!
ftll§-.
N
■^aaggasiy--
•t..- Jr
ps&jsgffl2f:i*4
S $
titU
o
?:a,;
1 a»
ill
IS22S
WSSs;:
BiUlsa
##sB
ADMIRAL BYRD
>: V
V 7::
oat
=?■
-4
fT-
-T-
C:;;:
£AMf^EK/
=J
BYRD EXPEDITION ,
- USfD - *“
r
m
BATTERIES
FUNCTION PERFECTLY, OPERATING RADIO
AS FLIGHT IS MADE OVER SOUTH POLE.
ONCE again EXIDE Batteries have been true to the faith reposed in them
by the great explorers, scientists, and fliers of the world.
Recalling the gratifying service rendered by these Batteries on former Byrd
expeditions, EXIDES were selected for use on the recent trip to the South Pole.
As a result, EXIDES have the distinction of being the only storage batteries
ever to fly over both North and South Poles.
The following radiogram received from Malcolm P. Hanson, chief radio engineer
of the Byrd expedition, explains why the rest of the world learned of the
successful flight of Admiral Byrd:
“78WFA Little America,
Antartic , Dec. sth, 1929.
The Exide Storage Battery Co.
Glad to inform you Exide Batteries gave
splendid performance operating radio on flight
to South Pole
Malcolm P. Hanson, 11.05P.’*
But gratifying as it is to learn that the EXIDE Battery continued to function
while the ’plane winged its way over great ice-fields and almost insurmountable
mountains on its way to the Pole, it is exactly the kind of service the battery
was expected to render. EXIDE is the one thoroughly proven and fully tested
storage battery in all fields of service. It is just as reliable in cars as in air-
plane, submarine, and radio service.
EXIDE-THE LONG-LIFE BATTERY- MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
N. S. WALES: Exide Battery Service Station, 54-56 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
VICTORIA: A. P. Sutherland, 2 Maffra Street (Queen’s Bridge), South Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Exide Battery Service (Q.), Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane, and Stanley Street, South
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., 100 Currie Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: M.. J. Bateman, Ltd., Magneto House, Milligan Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Medhurst & Sons Pty., Ltd., 95 Collins Street, Hobart.
Advertisement
E. H. Sharpe, representing Exide Batteries, 11c Castlereagli Street, Sydney.


é
ê
Write for booklet to: —BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
Post free
This booklet is a little
work of authority. It con-
tains a concise guide to the
rearing of infants, dainty
invalid recipes which
relieve the monotony of
plain milk diet for invalids
and the aged, and much
other valuable information.
*
Food
Seed. TKA.DI Mask.
*
ft
y
,V <! ~1 ■
.. New Zealand's
Daintiest Delicacy..
Tiny inch-long fish, unique
in flavour .. . found only
in New Zealand’s sparkling
streams, and then for but
three months of the year,
WHITEBAIT is a delicacy
beyond compare. Served
from the can, or fried in
batter, you are sure to
‘rave’ about WHITEBAIT
as do New Zealanders—
who send us these delicately
flavoured, tiny fish straight
from their streams ... in
cans that bear the label
“St. George.”
Dunedin, New Zealand.
Irvire & St ever son’s St. George Co. Ltd.
:. k
% i
v
7
St.George'
5
MEN ARE HUMAN
BY VANCE PALMER.
i llu
DARYL- LINDSAY-
CHAPTER XXVIII.
Unrest.
UNDER the hanging-lamp in the dining-
room McCurdie and the overseer
were bending over the cribbage-board,
a decanter of whisky and a couple of glasses
beside them. All day long they had been
engaged in clearing out the cow-paddock in
preparation for the cattle that were coming
in, and riding through the timber and over
the box-tree flats the overseer had dis-
covered to hia surprise anew sympathy
developing between himself and his boss.
“Out!” said McCurdie, flinging down his
cards and shifting the peg in the board.
“Home and dry on the pig’s back! Well,
another whisky and so to bed. I wonder
how much longer those infernal cattle will
be.”
He poured out a couple of nips and
tossed his own off neat; then walked to the
sideboard to get a cigar. Suddenly, as if
remembering the overseer’s presence, he
asked with abruptness:
“When did you want to cut free, Jeff?”
The overseer was taken aback. It was a
long time since they had discussed the
question.
“Any time that’s convenient,” he said.
“I suppose you can get on without me
now.”
“Oh, if you wait for that!” said Mc-
Curdie with a gleam of ironic humor.
And then he added more soberly:
“Leo Mahon was talking about a friend
of his who was looking for a job as over-
seer. Man who knows the country. Any-
how, it’s Boyd’s affair. He’ll be starting
from scratch like I did.”
■ His readiness to meet the situation was
surprising to his companion. They smoked
for a while in silence, and then the over-
seer said uncertainly:
“There was that thousand you promised
to lend me when I started on my own. I
could get it from a bank or one of the
big firms, but the little bit of interest makes
all the difference. A man puts a rope
round his neck when he borrows from those
people.”
“A man’s always got a rope round his
neck when he’s on the land,” said Mc-
Curdie, “and he’s got to remember that the
Devil’s at the other end. Perhaps more than
one devil. Was it a thousand I pro-
mised to lend you?”
“Less would satisfy me,” said the over-
seer. “I only wanted to feel I had some
backing behind me.”
“H’mph; take all you can get!” grunted
McCurdie, “Better be sure than sorry. The
thousand’s yours, anyway, as soon as you
can get your lease.”
He walked with the overseer along the
verandah, Lyt as he was turning to his
room he stopped:
“There’s those cattle,” he said. “How
about riding out in the morning and seeing
just where they are? They can’t be far away
now. You could take charge of them and
let Boyd come on ahead. He’s got plenty
of other things to attend to.”
He countermanded his order to the over-
seer next morning and set off to meet the
cattle himself, but his horse developed a
bad limp and he came back. That dusty
walk home through the l*eat, with the
smoke of grass fires making the air close
and acrid, took the edge off his energy and
he was unwilling to start out again. As
the overseer rode off in his place, the figure
of McCurdie stooping over the rails of the
yard to put a refractory peg in its place
was revealed to him with a certain vivid-
ness, as if he had seen something for the
first time.
“The old man’s cracking up,” he thought.
“That burst yesterday was only a flash in
the pan. His fists don’t close as tight as
they used to, over money or anything else.”
Suspicions that had only been faint and
shadowy movements in the back of his mind
began to take definite shape as he rode on.
That joke of Larry’s about Boyd and Josie
—could there have been something in it,
after all? The girl had left with surprising
suddenness and McCurdie had been poking
about for the reason, asking all sorts of
indirect questions.
That night as he lay by his fire, with
fifteen miles of his journey done, his
thoughts hovered round McCurdie’s figure
more sympathetically than they had ever
done before. The distrust of him that the
necessities of his own future had sown in
his heart, had mysteriously vanished. No
fear of the old man going back on his
word now: that thousand was safe as a
bank!
He was piling up some wood as a pre-
caution against the cold of midnight when
the unexpected crashing of timber struck
his ears, and soon a horseman came racing
up, blinking at the firelight.
“You, Jeff!” said Larry Byrne, slipping
from his horse heavily.
Looking at him the overseer felt the
shadow of impending disaster.
“What’s wrong now?” he challenged.
“Everything,” said Larry, reaching for the
quart of cold tea. “There’s been a hell
of a smash-up I was trying to get to
the station to-night to see the boss.”
He took a long drink and then lay down
on his back, putting his hands over his
eyes.
“A smash-up?” jerked out the overseer.
“But why the devil? Where are the
cattle?”
“Paddocked on Maroubra,” said Larry
mechanically, “all except fifty or sixty that
were crippled in the timber. I had to push
on and leave them. It’s telling the old man
I’m worrying about They settled Boyd
when they rushed.”
“What!”
The husky staccato of Jeff’s voice roused
Larry Byrne from his torpor. He sat up
with a sudden aggressiveness.
“It wasn’t my fault,” he broke out. “Of
all the cranky, galloping pike-horns I ever
handled! And it was Billy Mace’s
watch. If anyone was to blame for letting
the fires die down it was that infernal half-
caste Though God knows it’s me that’s
got to face the old.man!”
He was so overcome with the idea of
telling McCurdie that the overseer could
only force explanations out of him with
difficulty. He sat staring into the fire
with his legs crossed, his back bowed as
if under a weight. The responsibility was
on his shoulders and he would see it
through.
“What made them rush?” the overseer
asked suddenly.
“Don’t know,” said Larry in a dead
voice. “There was a bit of a storm and a
few claps of thunder. But they’d been
looking for trouble ever since they started
out Boyd was camping in the timber
about thirty yards from the fire. He’d
only joined us that day, and seemed to
have something he wanted to chew over
alone. I didn’t know what had happened
to him till I came back with the cattle near
sunrise.”
He. stopped abruptly, a film falling over
his eyes.
“And now I’ve got to tell the old man,”
he repeated.
The overseer rose and stretched himself.
“There’s no need of that,” he repeated.
“You go back and look after the cattle. I’ll
tell, him all there is to know.”
“No,” pei’sisted Larry. “It’s my job.
He’ll want to know how it all happened,
and you weren’t there to see.”
He unsaddled his horse and hobbled it,
then returned to the fire, bending over and
unfastening his leggings with clumsy, torpid
fingers. There was no other word spoken
till they had finished the last drop of tea
and rolled themselves in their blankets;
then Larry, exhaling a deep breath of
cigarette smoke, said reflectively:
“Boyd was a good fellow —white all
through. There’s no man ever had a
grudge against him as far as I know.
Never even kicked a dog out of his road!
And the old Boss was counting on him
more and more. It’ll be the end of Aber-
nethy, as far as he’s concerned.”
“That’s right,” agreed the overseer. “Dead
finish.” He lay for a while looking at the
crumbling coais and the circle of sombre
timber around. He was thinking it was
just as well Larry had left him the job
of going on to take charge of the cattle.
There were more unpleasant things to deal
with than a mob of scrubbers.
CHAPTER XXIX.
McCurdie’s; Ride.
McCurdie had been coming up from his
morning bathe in the lagoon when the
sight of Larry Byrne racing up to the yards
assured him that something had gone
wrong. By the time they had met at the
gate he had prepared himself for the worst.
He stood quite still, saying nothing, as if
rooted to the ground like an old dead
tree, with no branches that the wind could
stir.
Larry Byrne had finished his story and
was beating the air with unnecessary
words, wishing that the Boss would say
something to help him out. His simple
face had a look of peculiar tension.
“It was the night before last,” he re-
peated. “I’ve been riding ever since yester-
day morning. It was the only way of
letting you know.”
The mention of time roused McCurdie
from his stupor. “The night before last?”
he repeated, as if trying to think back.
Then he asked quickly: “They’re bring-
ing him along?”
“I don’t think so,” replied Larry, a little
awkwardly. “They were going to send for
a parson and bury him at Maroubra. There
seemed nothing else to do.”
“No,” agreed McCurdie with surprising
quietness. “There was nothing else to do.
You’d better go back to the cattle, Larry.”
He went inside the house, walking very
rigidly, as though each movement was made
by an effort of will. Except for the rattle
of cups and saucers in the kitchen, where
Mrs. Cleary was getting the breakfast, the
place was very still, and when he lay down
on the sofa in the office and looked up at
the roof the world seemed to have stopped.
Two or three phrases were moving in a
circle through his brain: “He’s dead
This is all he came back f0r.... Smashed
up like young Jim without a word to
anyone!”
He heard the tread of heavy boots on
the kitchen floor as Duncan came in to
breakfast, and he drew his arm over his
eyes. He had a feeling that there were
sinister forces in the world of which he
knew nothing. It was not the sunny, com-
prehensible place through which he usually
moved with such assurance, doing his daily
work and calculating the rewards of his
energy and virtue.
“This is madness,” he told himself, rising
abruptly. “I’m letting my mind go to
pieces.”
He caught his horse and rode off in the
direction of Niva Downs, the dog follow-
ing him; but before he realised it, he had
turned his horse’s head and was riding back
again. He did not want to see Barbara,
after all. She would hear about it in her
own time, and there was no comfort in
words. There was no one who could grasp
all that Boyd’s death meant to him, not
even Barbara. When he reached home he
turned his horse adrift and went off to his
room like a wounded animal to its lair.
At night a light rain began to fall,
making hardly any sound upon the root.
McCurdie lay half-dressed on his bed and
tried to sleep, but the inertia that had
fallen on him had nothing to do with
fatigue. The night seemed endless, and
yet he had nothing to look forward to
in the arrival of daylight. He was roused
near dawn by a tapping at his window, and
going out he saw a dim figure in dripping
oilskins. . ,
“I want the loan of a horse, Boss, said
Duncan hurriedly.
He was shivering, either from cold or
agitation, but McCurdie could not see his
“A horse?” McCurdie repeated stupidly,
“Why, what the devil?”
“Josie’s come back. She wants the
doctor from the township.”
McCurdie’s lethargy fell from him like
a coat slipping from his shoulders.
“And she’s been riding all night in the
rain?”
“Most of it. Seems as if she missed the
track in the dark. And she wants a
doctor—bad.”
In a flash 'McCurdie guessed how it was
with the girl.
“Catch the night-horse and saddle it,
he said quickly. “We can’t wait to run
the others in.”
“I’ve got, the night-horse saddled at the
gate,” said Duncan. “I thought I’d tell
you before I went, though.”
“Then wake Mrs. Cleary and bring Josie
over here. I’ll go for the doctor myself.”
“There’s no need, Boss,” protested Dun-
can. “I’m all ready.”
“No, you stay here with Josie. I m the
man to persuade him if he doesn’t want
to come. Put some hurry-up into him!”
He blundered out to where the night-
horse was standing at the gate in the
murky dawn. It was still raining a little,
and the wet, feathery branches of the
pepperinas brushed his face as he passed.
He stood tightening the girths, while Dun-
can, who had roused the housekeeper, stood
around uncertainly, looking like a be-
draggled fowl in the dim light.
“You can ring up from Magnus Downs,'
he suggested.
“Yes, I know,” McCurdie answered.
“But I won’t trust to that As soon as
it’s light send someone over to tell Mrs.
Day. I ought to have gone myself.”
He sprang into the saddle and bucketed
off along the heavy track, the need for
action having restored his vitality and
cleared his brain. The paralysing feeling
that the world had stopped moving had left
him, and he was almost glad that something
had happened to make a demand on his
energy. .
“Duncan’s daughter,” his mmd was
repeating. “Duncan’s daughter and my
son!.... In the one boat, all of us, and
going down.”
(To be continued next week.)
Sonnet of Ebb and Flow.
I cannot praise the earth, ungirdled, old
And shameless, as she seems when from her
slides
The silken green apparel of her tides
Baring the mud, fold after senile fold.
The broad day takes her grossly in its hold
Of brutal light, a lust that- scarcely hides
The fierce fulfilment it at last derides
With a flung coin, the moon —not even gold!
Yet this she squanders in small change along
Shore-wending shoals, where, dressed in
tinkling jade,
The bribed bamboos dance until out of
breath,
While ancient banyans, muttering among
Themselves, repeat what most she would
evade —
Her pitiless anthology of death.
N.T.
FREDERICK T. MACARTNEY.


■
m
gR
m
m
i
■B
r:' : ‘ '
11
H
Hfi B
H
infi
.
■
■SI*!
H
■
■
m
iSiiili 1
gill
Mi
WHY WASTE GOOD FEED?
The fact of feeding oaten or wheaten hay alone to sheep is sheer waste. In a slightly
lesser degree this applies to oats, barley, maize or any grain food.
These foods are all “ unbalanced/’ They supply sheep with carbo-hydrates (starches,
sugars, fibre, etc,) when they are already getting enough of this type of nourishment
from the dry feed and stubbles. What they need is Protein, the body-building nutrient.
The best available source of protein is—
MEGGITT’S LINSEED SHEEP NUTS
If you feed Meggitt’s Nuts in conjunction with your hay or grains, using only about 2oz.
Nuts per sheep daily, you will have a hundred per cent, better ration and will obtain a
hundred per cent, better results from your Autumn Feeding Programme.
Based on cost per tin, “Meggitt’s” is slightly dearer than most other foods.
Based on cost per unit of food value and in results, “Meggitt’s” is cheapest of all sheep
foods.
Commonwealth Distribution:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Meggitt,
Limited, Asbestos House,
corner York and Barrack
Streets, Sydney, and all
Pastoral Houses, or Agents.
VICTORIA: New Zealand Loan
and Mercantile Agency Co.,
Ltd., Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Branches.
ë
Commonwealth Distribution:
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder,
Smith and Co., Ltd., Currie
Street, Adelaide, and Branches.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder,
Smith and Co., Ltd., St.
George’s Terrace, Perth, and
Branches. Sub-distributors:
Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd.,
Perth.


CflUifaUtfy
bring a host
of savings to
Young Australia
ē
79(6 Youths
Suits for...
63-
(JA ONLY! Fine-quality
worsted Suits for Youths,
in neat Grey designs, Mid and
Dark Grey shades. Two-button
front with jigger. Coat, vest
and trousers. Ready to Wear.
Sizes fit Youths 12 to 18 years.
32(6 Boys’
Suits
for. . . .
26/ii
Boys* Mid and Dark Grey
Tweed, or Navy Cheviot Serge
Cotswold Suits, each Suit
accompanied by an extra pair
of plain-knee Knickers.
Sizes fit Boys 6 to 14 years.
6/11 Boys’ Hats for
“Keepshape” quality Tweed Hats
for Boys. Neat Dark shades.
2)11
6/6 Boys’ Shirts for
Zephyr Golf Shirts for Boys, in
latest stripe designs. Collar to
match.
1
3/ii
4/11 to 5/11 Golf
Hose f° r 2|9
Good strong-wearing all-
wool Golf Hose for Boys, in
Black shade only, fit 2 to 8
boot.
ĕ
ė
DRUMMOND’S EXCLUSIVE JEWELLERY
Magnificent Diamond
and Sapphire Brooch,
set in platinum,
£175
Lady’s Wristlet Watch, set with 32 Fine
Quality Diamonds,
£26/5/-
Diamond Bar Brooch, set in Platinum,
£55
ę
ě
w
ŵ
Lady’s 18-carat White Gold Wristlet Watch,
set with 90 'fine quality diamonds. The
lever movement is fully jewelled and com-
pensated. Exceptional timekeeper,
£6O
The Platinum Wristlet Watch illustrated has
a diamond-set fly-up protector over the dial,
operated by pressure. The 18-jewel level-
movement is the production of the famous
“Longines” Watch Factory, and is fully
guaranteed by Drummonds.
Illustrated Watch Catalogue on application.
®Hm. Brummonti & Co.
JEWELLERS,
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Through several generations of
master and man, Stuarts of
Stourbridge , England, have
made and cut fine crystal.
The old, traditional methods
remain: the same patient, lov »
ing skill is expended on every
piece that bears the etched
name "Stuart" — that guar-
antee off lav/less craftsmanship.
mm
English Hand=made Crystal
Obtainable wherever beautiful glass is sold
HOME for cure of ALCOHOLISM and DRUGS
(BOTH SEXES)
Established 30 years. Highly recommended. Under medical supervision. Fully qualified matron
and staff. Effective and safe.
THE CENTRAL MISSION INSTITUTION,
Moreland Hall, Jessie Street, Moreland, Melbourne.
Telephone: Brunswick 744.
THE AUSTRALIAN MUSEUM MAGAZINE
POPULAR SCIENCE PERIODICAL
NON-TECHNICAL AND LIBERALLY ILLUSTRATED.
APRIL-JUNE NUMBER, VOL. IV, PART 2 —NOW ON SALE.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS:
SEALS ON THE VICTORIAN COAST AND THEIR FEEDING HABITS F. Lewis
SHELL ORNAMENTATION •• • Joyce Allen
SOME AUSTRALIAN CUCKOOS ••• • • K - A. Hindwood
THE INVESTIGATION OF OCEAN WATERS • T - c - Kough.ey and G. p. Whitlev
CENTIPEDES AND CENTIPEDE BITES K- C. McKeown
AROUND AUSTRALIA’S NOR’-WEST BOUNDARY A A. Livingstone
INSECTS AND DISEASE K - C. McKeown
WHAT IS THE LIFE SPAN OF A BIRD? •••••■ ; J- R. Kinghom
From all Booksellers, or direct from the Australian Museum, Sydney.
SINGLE COPIES,, 1/1' (posted). ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION, 4/4 (posted).


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers'
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
ry\lert Attention to Your Needs...
“AND THOUGHT UPON YOUR COMFORT
is the policy that has placed the Wentworth in the front
rank of Australian hotels. Efficiently managed under the
personal direction of Mrs. H. Macluican, it is the centre
of all smart gatherings and the chosen rendezvous of the
leaders in Society.
They appreciate, from personal experience, the real ser-
vice, the luxurious comfort arid excellent cuisine for
which the Wentworth definitely sets a standard of
quality. Wire or Write for reservations.
c /he Wentworth
m
Church Hill,
Sydney.
1
Qfc Ribbons
wash with
the Garment,
Cash’s Ribbons are
made in daintiest fade-
less Pastel Shades, and
are ideal for Shoulder
Straps and Lingerie.
(§sK§)
WASHING
RIBBONS
Look like new after
repeated washing—ob-
tainable i n a variptv nf
widths.
Ask your Draper for Cash
J. &. J. Ca sh Austral ian
Weaving Co. Pty. Ltd.
Richmond, Melbourne.
Melbourne
chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn Lrimited.
So[?] M[?]
Tlie hills and the sea lured many Mel-
bournites out of the city for Easter, the
weather being mild and sunny. On Thursday
afternoon motor-cars plumply packed with
luggage streamed outwards along all high-
ways, and in many cases trailers loaded with
camping apparatus bumped along behind. In
the city streets holiday-makers bustled along
with a suitcase in one hand and a portable
gramophone or radio-set in the other. Good
Friday’s church attendances didn’t break
any records.
The rockeries and flower-beds about the
lawns of Williamstown racecourse blazed with
color for the Easter meeting, exhibiting a
brave show of petunias, phlox, pansies and
other seasonable blooms. There were roses
too, though it was thought until secretary
•T. F. Nagle took things in hand that the
queen of flowers would not flourish there.
The attendance on Saturday was good, and the
weather was so fine and warm that many
georgettes and crepe de Chines had an
unexpected outing. Mayoress Luxton, wear-
ing a black ensemble, was there with her
friend Mrs. U. J. Nicholas. Mrs. 'W.
Pulteney Mein came in black crepe de Chine,
and Mrs. Barry Thomson topped her navy
georgette frock with a shady green hat.
The W. Rogers Thomsons brought their
daughter Kathleen, whose putty-colored silk
frock was worn with a raspberry-red hat.
Over 100 couples demonstrated their readi-
ness to be there when White and Edgley, of
the “Love Lies” frivolity at Melbourne
King’s, called for recruits for an aerial
wedding. Some of them were purely mer-
cenary, demanding a list of the “presents”
which would come to them by firms avid of
cheap advertisement. At least half a dozen
girls confessed to being minus swaing but
declared themselves confident of being able
to repair the omission before the due date.
G. Farr, the manager of Simoniz motor pro-
ducts in Melbourne, was, it is said, the first
man to effect an aerial union in this State,
but his reasons were private. As he belonged
to no denomination he did not feel justified
in using the facilities provided by the
churches, and he had a rooted objection to
registry offices, so he engaged a parson and
took him for a flight over the city.
_ Chief Judge Dethridge sat in No. 1 Arbitra-
tion Court in Melbourne recently to consider
the.case of two women theatre-cleaners. The
ladies were so overwhelmed at the fact that
they had brought the majestic legal machinery
of the Commonwealth into operation that
they found difficulty in giving evidence. It
was elicited, however, that their grievance
was that they had allegedly been wrongfully
deprived of two days’ pay during the Christ-
mas holidays. The learned Judge heard
much conflicting evidence from both sides,
decided in favor of the plaintiffs and ad-
journed for luncheon. The economy cam-
paign might begin in the Arbitration Court.
The other day, owing to a motoring mis-
hap, a Chatterer had a peep at the inside
of that home of romance, Sunnyside, Morn-
ington. It was built on the bay a generation
back by an Englishman named Gillett and
is an exact replica of his old home in the
Isle of Wight. Wide fireplaces, oak beams
and many mirrors are a feature of its
spacious halls and apartments. The old
man’s name is still honored in the district,
for he was famed for his generosity and
hospitality. He had been through tough
times before a fortune came his way and
knew the meaning of poverty. At his death
the property came to his daughter, who mar-
ried Dr. Jackson’s son, but they gave up
living there after a death in the family.
Now it has passed into other keeping.
Headed by their president, Dr. Constance
Ellis, members of the Medical Women’s
Society met over tlie teacups one afternoon
last week to say good-bye to their' lion,
sec., Dr. Winifred Smith (outside her
surgery she is Mrs. Colin Mackenzie),
who is transferring her residence to Can-
berra, where her husband will pursue his
duties as Director of tlie National Museum
of Australian Zoology. A couple of pictures
were presented to Dr. Smith, who is to be
followed in the secretarial role by a name-
sake, Dr. Bruce Smith.
There was a billy-boiling last week to fare-
well Mrs. W. Rennick, who is booked for
a holiday tour of England and ’Murca with
her husband, Dr. Rennick. Mrs. A. E.
Hotchkiss, gowned and hatted in black and
white, handed Mrs. Rennick a posy and
voiced the good wishes of a host of friends.
The Yarra branch of the C.W.A., in asso-
ciation with a couple of members of the
Victoria League, engineered a social gather-
ing last week for conference delegates, at
which Lady Somers was present. The
Mitchell lady, retiring president of the
C.W.A., and the just-elected president, Mrs.
J. S. Fraser, were hostesses. Flame oak and
autumn-tinted maple foliage from Macedon,
with dahlias massed in large brass bowls,
decked headquarters in the Auditorium build-
ings. Her Ex. wore chalk-white crepe satin
moulded on simple lines with a dangling side-
piece. With the Mitchell lady, who wore
black chiffon velvet, were her daughters, Mrs.
W. D. Armitt, of Gippsland, in mauve georg-
ette a-sparklo with crystal, and Mrs. G. H.
Adams, a tall, slim figure in black chiffon.
Mrs. Murray Waller, secretary of the asso-
ciation, sported gold embroidery on a gown
of amber and brown. Melbourne represen-
tatives included Mrs. Harry Creswick, in
nigger-brown lace; Mrs. Arthur Hordern;
Elsa Grice, wearing a brocaded wrap over
a sprakling black frock; and Lynette Dicken-
son, one of the' workers of the younger set.
Among Bendigo’s delegates were Mrs. P. F.
Griffin and Mrs. S. R. Balmer, the latter
accompanied by her daughter Kathleen, in
wine-colored velvet. From Annuello, in the
northern part of the Mallee, came Mrs. Tip-
petts and Mrs. Davis. Mrs. Byron Gumming
was there from Mortlake; Mrs. W. E. Sar-
good, in filmy black lace, was a Corowa
delegate; Mrs. Amos, who wore powder-blue,
journeyed from Monangatang; and Miss
Twyford was the Clyde associate. Sister
organisations in other States were repre-
sented by Mrs. Adam Black, from Charters
Towers, Bananaland, and Mrs. Hammond,
modishly attired in green lace, from Sydney.
Director of Education Hansen, who escorted
his wife, was the only man present. Mrs.
R. T. McDonald, Mrs. A. S. Morton and
Marjorie Forbes assisted the hostesses.
Lady Somers presided at the annual con-
ference of the Country Women’s Association
last week. The establishment of a seaside
home, the distribution of Christmas gifts to
folk out back, and a comforts cupboard have
been special efforts of the Yarra (metro-
politan) branch, to which the younger set
gives good support. At the conference 3G
out of the 52 branches were represented by
70 delegates. The Mitchell lady, the retir-
ing president, received a gift in acknowledg-
ment of her untiring service, Mrs. O.
Hieken, of Shepparton, being deputed to
hand over the tribute. Mrs. J. S. Fraser
succeeds to the presidential chair. Thanks
for the splendid help of. the association was
given by W. H. Edgar, M.L.C., who headed
the Parliamentary party that inquired into
conditions of the Mallee settlers and set the
holiday scheme going, M. P. Hansen, Director
of Education, added his word of approval
regarding the C.W.A.’s educational activi-
ties.
This is the lady largely responsible for
the admirable performance of “Ambrose
Applejohn’s Adventure,” which had a four
nights’ season
at the King’s
Theatre lately
for the benefit
of the Legacy
Club. She is
Fannie Gar*
gurevich, who
produced the
comedy and
was the foreign
vamp Anna
Valeska. For
some years
Miss Gargure-
vich has been
actively con-
nected with,
and has super-
vised the work
of the am.
dram. soe. of
the Postal In-
stitute, which
presented the
well-rehearsed play. In this portrait, by
Sarony, she is wearing the attire belonging
to her rOle.
There was a race meeting at Moonee
Valley course at the mid-week, in aid of the
fund for distressed soldiers. A perfect day,
spring-like in its freshness, attracted a good
attendance. The chief event was the Edward
Naylor Gold Cup, won by Bylaw. General
Monash handed the trophy to the owner, J.
Tracey ; and thanked chairman Alister Clark
and secretary Iliskens for the generous help
given by the M.V.R.G. to ex-soldiers. The
lighter makes of tweed were favored by fair
punters, though many wore a fur necklet
or wrap as a precaution against our variable
climate.
The Women Citizens served tea at the
club rooms in The Block the other day towel-
come Mrs. Vandeer Litt, of New York, who
is touring the world to investigate the indus-
trial conditions of women in many lands.
An enthusiast, the lady spoke entertainingly
for an hour or so on the theme of “equal
pay for equal work.” In Soviet Russia Mrs.
Litt found the equality she pleads for. There
women occupy many high places. In Turkey
there is a cigarette factory that runs a
cr&che where mothers can leave their babies.
Damascus possesses an up-to-date woman’s
•club. Iraq has yet . to become emanci-
pated, but in India women are improving their
position by leaps and bounds. Mrs. Litt gently
chided Australian women for not making
fuller use of the vote. They would prize it
more highly, she said, if they had had to
fight for it. The visitor will have a look
at Sydney before sailing home by way of
Maoriland. After which, no doubt, she will
know all about us too.
An Easter week wedding was that of Jean,
elder daughter of the J. D. Howies, of Can-
terbury, and James Hugh, son of Mrs.
Munro Campbell, of the same suburb. Scotch
College chapel was the setting for the cere-
mony. The bridal raiment was ivory satin
fashioned on princess robe lines, with a froth
of tulle and Limerick lace. Nance Howie and
Jean Campbell attended in wheat-colored
chiffon, gracefully falling about their ankles.
Their felt hats were of the same tint, and
armfuls of cream and yellowy gladioli made
harmony. There was an evening reception at
No. 9.
Still doing his bit is Major Joynt, V.C.,
one of the pillars of the Legacy Club, which
interests itself in the welfare of orphans
whose fathers fell in the Great War. He
tackles his
work for the
club as deter-
minedly as lie
led the attack
on Herleville
Wood 12 years
ago, when his
company com-
mander was
killed and he
carried on till
the position
was won and
he had earned
thelittlebronze
cross. At
present he is
contemplating
with satisfac-
tion the finan-
cial return
of the four
nights’ season
of “Ambrose
Applejohn’s Adventure,” performed by the
Postal Institute’s am. dram. soc. in the
interests of the Legacy Club. Sarony made
the picture.
A cathedral, of which Mother Nature was
the architect, was the scene of a wedding
last week. Fairy Moon, a Gippsland girl,
was married to Frank Hansford in the Fairy
Cave of the Buchan Group. Her father was
the discoverer of the cave, and her just-
acquired husband is one of the guides.
Two bridesmaids hugging sheaves of gladioli
against gowms of leaf-green satin, with a-
glint of silver on their matching hats, waited
on Linda Edith Holdsworth when she became
Mrs. Geoi’ge Hamilton Allen at Scots’ kirk
the other day. The bride, a daughter of
the A. H. Holdsworths, of Lansell-road,
Toorak, wore white chiffon that depended
from a lengthy bodice of lace, more lace, with
a suggestion of pink tulle beneath, cascading
as veil.
Artist Eileen Dent paid Mrs. Britomarte
James, president of the Wattle League, a
nice little compliment the other day by pre-
senting her with a study of wattle. This
still-life piece is one of the best Miss Dent
has yet accomplished. It pictures a blue
and white ginger-jar from which topple
masses of silver-foliaged wattle.
There were good-byes with flowers and
farewell gifts at the Oriental last week for
Mrs. James Shuter (Florence Herd that
was), who goes to reside in London with
her lately-acquired husband. She only
recently returned from Britain and the Con-
tinent, -where she had spent five years. Wear-
ing biscuit-tinted georgette with millinery of
a darker tone lined with velvet of nastur-
tium tint, the young matron poured tea for
many of her old friends, assisted by her
mother, Mrs. David Herd.
Rose Quong, a former Melbourne girl, is
becoming a well-known figure in London’s
artistic life. At her studio parties one
meets visiting celebrities. As in this city, as
soon as she’s out of a job she get busy giving
recitals. When the last mail left she was
billed to appear in a one-act play, “Hour
of Destiny,” by Paul Swan, who dabbles in
most of the arts. A selection of Chinese
poems and a scene from “The Circle of
Chalk,” in which Miss Quong appeared last
season, were included in the programme.
Dame Janet Campbell was given a wel-
come at the Lambeth-road Hospital, London,
on her return from Australia. She had only
kind remarks to make . about us. Lady
Birkenhead was the hostess, and being keenly
interested, in this country, which she hopes
soon to visit, asked many questions. Assist-
ing her was her daughter, Lady Eleanor
Smith, who inherits her father’s love of ink
and has just published a novel, “Red
Waggon,” dealing with circus life.
Tlie orthopaedic section of the Children’s
Hospital lately opened at Frankston is
giving good results. After a few months’
treatment the 44 children arc beginning to
show so decided an improvement under the
influence of sun and sea air and some arti-
ficial aids that many complete recoveries are
hoped for. In connection with this hospital
there is a State school. An auxiliary to help
the £92,000 institution was formed last week
by people who are residents or have holiday
homes in the vicinity. Mrs. Norman Brookes
was elected pi-esident, with Mrs. E. A.
Machin lion. sec. and Mi’s. Wallace Mitchell
lion, treas.
Mrs. Charlie Lyon is aboard the Orontes
on her way to rejoin her daughters, who
are finishing their education in Switzerland.
The good-looking matron, who had been
abroad with her family for a year or more,
just dashed back to see how her husband
and household were getting along without
mother and the girls.
Mrs. Ernest Poolman has taken over the
duties of president of the South Yarra-St.
Kilda committee of St. Martin’s C. of E.
Boys’ ITome during Mrs. Fi’ed Payne's jour-
neyings. The annual meeting was held at
Mrs. Poolman’s South Yarra residence, and
there was general rejoicing when it was
found that the treasury had a farewell
cheque for £lOO from Mrs. Payne.
Yvonne Cohen and Blanche Everard, who
took their B.A. degree together at the Uni.
commencement the other day, are daughters
respectively of H. I. Cohen, M.L.C., and
W. 11. Everard, M.L.A., who matriculated
at the same time when fellow-students at
Scotch College just on 40 years ago.
Toorak College, Frankston, one of our
vei*y toniest seminaries, worked in with its
School Governors’ day its annual sports and
a fair in aid of the new tennis court. The
Creswell lady gave the word for the fair
to start fairing, and handed out the prizes
to the young ladies. Mrs. Norman Brookes,
Mrs. George Russell and Mrs. Clive Fair-
baira were stall-holders.
The golf tournament at Barwon Heads
has di’awn a crowd of enthusiasts from the
city this Easter, but interest in the tennis
championships at Geelong is not so keen as
usual. The two places being but a short
motor-run apart, there is generally a good
deal of interchange of entertaining, a*nd there
are some dances listed for this week. Stay-
ing at the beautifully .situated golf-house,
with its commanding views of river, ocean
and lake, are knight Robert Best, Dr. and
Mrs. L. Doyle, the E. W. Manifolds and
Susie Tolhurst.
The revival of “Romance” by Nellie
Stewart and her co. a*t the Comedy on
Saturday stiri’ed recollections that are-
growing very dim. Miss Stewart is still
an object-lesson in grace, with her dainty
feet peeping beneath hooped raiment. Her
attire as the Italian prima donna* is white
on which pink roses are festooned. Later
she wears black velvet with a mid-Victorian
bonnet stuck on at a rakish angle. Nancye
Stewart, who is the sweet girl of to-day,
wears long floating draperies of soft pink, up
to the minute in cut.
Mrs. M. Bevei’idge, of Ea*st St. Kilda,
sails next month to ’Murca, to gaze upon the
sky exploits of her daughter. Mrs. Keith
Miller, who is capitalising in the U.S.A.
her fame as the first woman to fly from
England to Australia.
The rubber flower has caught woman’s
fancy abroad. London debs, carry l’ubber
bouquets, and a bride has introduced the
new r fad into her toilette scheme. Mrs.
McGraeie Munn, originator of the idea, is
becoming exceedingly pi-osperous. She
employs an army of girls, who copy from
Natux-e. Coloi-s are exactly reproduced, and
even the perfume is imparted by means of
a small wad of cotton-wool concealed in each
blossom. As the rubber bouquet is ever-
lasting the florists aren’t pleased.
St Vincent’s Hospital is following the
example set by the world’s leading hospitals,
and is setting about the establishment of a
dietetic department. When the radium
fund has been collected the auxiliai’ies will
commence the chase for the £3OOO required.
London’s ballrooms are again seeing the
sparkle of light from colored gems. Old
jewels hidden in vaults for years are
replacing the strings of pearls that for years
have been uniform wear. Rubies are most
favored, as they go so well with the all-black
and all-white toilettes of this season.
Ornaments are in demand for every occasion.
There are chokers of sharks’ teeth cut in
crystal for sports wear, and strings of amber
or uncut gems, such as Australian turquoises
and sapphires, ai’e worn with other clothes.
The MacEacharn lady, widow of the ship-
ping magnate, who was once Lud Mayor of
Melbourne, has just sold her Scottish castle,
Galloway House, at Garlieston, Wigtown-
shire, with 2271 acres of land attached. She
was the eldest of the ,T. B. Watson girls of
Bendigo. The cares of this big estate had
become too much for her now that her son
and two daughters are married, and she has
gone to live in London.


Under®
Royal
Warrant
w
ToH.M.
GeorgeV
Vintage 1920.
C H AIVIPAGIM E
CharlesTleidsieck
wmwasM
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Li mitad
SYDNEY.
CHamPACKC
QiailesHeidsieOi
Heims
PELLISSON
Cognac Srandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Assists—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
This Is a Worrying Time for the
Woman Investor.
She sees the market value of the shares in which she is interested falling;
or she is left money and finds it difficult to decide on a suitable investment.
“The ‘ Wild Cat ’ Monthly, ”
working in conjunction with “The Bulletin’s” Service Department, will help her.
And the expert advice is free for the asking.
See the Service Coupon on page 5 1 of this issue.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Have you
ordered
Kar Cheese?
The official opening of the Easter Show
is always so reminiscent of the opening of
Parliament: the G.-G. gets all the prefixes
and terminations bestowed upon him by
godparents, bequeathed to him by ancestors
and bestowed upon him by a grateful sover-
eign when president Sam Hordern welcomes
him to the task of declaring open the biggesc
show on earth. This being the last of them
Lord Stonehaven expects to attend, he—
well, he was not a “Sentimental Bloke,”
but he indicated that he would be sorrier
to leave Australia than he would trust him-
self to say. Meanwhile he graced the occa-
sion in the orthodox English top-hat and
other wear. So did the president and the
rest of the society’s officials; but Premier
.Bavin and Federal Treasurer Theodore,
having the prejudices of Bill and Jim and
Jack to consider, wore sac suits and soft
hats. The Premier’s was particularly on
the neglige or picnicking side—which greatly
annoyed one woman in this Letter’s neigh-
borhood. “ ’Tisn’t as if he hasn’t a silk
hat,” she confided—“l saw him in it at
his daughter’s wedding.” Anyhow, neither
he nor Theodore was worrying a bit about
his clothes, and from the way they chatted
and chuckled together for all the world to
see, they did not seem to be worrying
about much else.
The amplifiers did not succeed in carrying
any of the speeches coherently to their audi-
ences ; but there were no tears visible, prob-
ably because the trotting and high-jump
events were at the moment proceeding in the
ring. These caused outbursts of applause
which warmed the speechifiers to greater
efforts and soothed the nervousness of those
who went up to receive shields and cups for
their exhibits.
But although all the human triumphs of
the R.A.S. are to the male, the ladies did get
a look-in. Certainly the vice-regal pen was
robbed of its social interest by the absence of
a vicereine, but the identity and trappings
of the few elect seemed of vital interest to
many onlookers in the hundreds clustered
around. The president’s lady sat next the
G.-G. She was well tailored in bright navy
covert collared with black fox, and her black
felt hat was something between the aviator
helmet and the sou’-wester; Mrs. Garlick’s
crossed fox furs excited more than one sigh
of envy as she chatted with deputy-president
Angus’s wife; secretary Somerville’s better
half graced the occasion in mushroom tinted
tailorings; Rear-Admiral Evans’s wife broke
the severity of the black turnout that en-
hanced the charm of her Nordic blondness
with a collar of ermine and a cluster of
frangipanni; Federal Treasurer Theodore’s
wife also favored black, but Official-Secre-
tary Budge’s wife lightened the sartorial
sombreness with a red vellum hat, and
daughter Elsie’s azure-blue ensemble gave
an agreeable color note. The subsequent
dish of tea, taken amid golden roses and
autumn leaves, was also shared with Mrs.
Fred. McMaster and daughter Thelma, Aud-
rey Hordern and a few more notabilities.
There were much more colorful entertain-
ments than the opening ceremony in the
Agricultural Hall. The prize North Coast
and Tablelands exhibit is a feast for the
eyes that makes one wonder why our artists
do not attempt something of the sort instead
of the still-life studies of a few dahlias or a
handful of zinnias. Hans Heysen, it is true,
has depicted the beauties of the onion; but
what has the pumpkin done, and all the
tribe of marrows and squashes? The Ven-
etian Fruit Stall in the National Gallery is
only a circumstance compared with this
exhibit in its wonderful variety.
Though the Show attracted larger crowds
than ever, you should have heard the .side-
show man talk about the way they didn’t
spend money! “Couldn’t pick ’em off the
curtain nohow.” the tired spruiker confessed;
and a stirring cry to come and see the
greatest livin’ wonder of all ages, said livin’
wonder being a woman on one side and a
man on the other, didn’t win half the patrons
the case called for; and there wasn’t one
in five hundred who seemed to be at all
inquisitive about the contents of her will
that another greatest livin’ wonder had had
tattooed upon her back. But the small child
who accompanied mother found to her infinite
joy that at many stalls it was no longer
necessary to buy samples: all over the ground
were vendors so eager for business that the
old free sample was reverted to.
Socially the A.J.C. autumn meeting was
rather a washout. Nobody, of course, con-
fessed that the brute of a bank manager was
in anyway responsible; all fell back upon
that good old excuse, the absence of feminine
vice-royalty. Certainly Lord Stonehaven
was there, silk-hatted and • frock-coated and
inonocled, even sporting a white gardenia in
his buttonhole, and after the official luncheon
a few from the top social layer fluttered into
the sacred pen; but those outside the rail
displayed little interest, and the G.-G. de-
serted the enclosure quite early and mixed
with the thousands of sports, some so demo-
cratic that they squatted and sprawled on
the lawns before the public stand, the lady’s
head nestling against the gentleman’s shoulder.
The affectionate attitudes were probably a
tribute to the softening effect of the band,
which did give a delightfully soothing, senti-
mental selection of items.
Yet that brute of a bank manager hasn’t
it all his own way, and sartoria*lly the meet-
ing was a triumph, so far at least as the
skirts went —and in many cases that wasn’t
very far. The exhibits in the threatened
“long sweeping lines” were so few and so
bizarre, as a rule, that they stood out as a
warning not to do it —especially in purple
satin and cardinal crgpe de Chine, baby pink
and powder blue. Shane Leslie says “a good
dressmaker is a collaborator of God”; but
the combination seems to have been in recess
for the past few months. It seemed at this
meeting as if womenfolk are holding back
and waiting to see if the pendulum really
does swing to the tight and long; at any
rate, the majority appeared in coats and
skirts just below the knees. There was a
fair showing of the new string tweed, and
brown seemed to be the popular choice for
color, rather sad drab except in a few
warm tones.
But if women were restrained about
changing the style of gowns, they almost
unanimously adopted the new brimless, skull-
tight, nape-caped hats. Ruthless hats! So
revealing, not only of wrinkles, but of every
minute blemish and every irregularity! The
berets were bad enough, but only a circum-
stance compared with the “skully.” It was
a shock to observe that women whom you
thought were good-looking had enormous
noses, receding or pugilistic chins, bulging
or dished-in brows, and, really horrible to
note, course holes left from continual pluck-
ing of the eyebrows. The hatbrim was the
invention of a kind heart.
It was a happy opening day, for the sun
shone and a gentle breeze blew, and there
had been sufficient rain to make the gerani-
ums bloom warmly and to wash the velvet
lawns. In front of the members’ stand there
were still a few cars devoted to the use of
the disabled soldiers from Graythwaite and
Randwick; just about six. Is the need grow-
ing less or are we forgetting? Among the
cars was that of ex-soldier Croucher, who
was robbed of his legs from the hips at
Bullecourt, but couldn’t be divested of his
stout heart. He drives the car himself,
and always brings comrade Smyth with him
'—another A.I.F. man who has to propel
himself on crutches. This 56th. Batt. man
has an appliance attached to the accelerator
which he operates from the steering wheel,
and he works the clutch by leaning back
hard against his seat. He says he has no
complaints.
Alan Row made this photograph of the
wife of Australia’s new Chief Justice before
she went
abroad as a
mere Justice’s
iauy. Now the
pleasant look
is no doubt a
great deal
pleasanter, for
to open a
cable which
tells you that
your husband
has been made
Chief Justice
is as thrilling
to the wife of
a man of law
as opening a
cable offering
you a contract
for prima-
donna parts is
to an opera-
singer. She
will not be
short of language to express her delight, for
she speaks German, French and Italian
besides her own tongue. Reading, bridge and
golf are her recreations; and she is well
known in this city’s social life, as she spends
a good part of every winter in our sunshine.
It will be remembered that two of the Isaacs
daughters acted, in turn, as associates to
their father, being among the first girls to
undertake this branch of law work.
No question about Vance Palmer’s popu-
larity among his fellow Australians! As
his “Men Are Human” has now almost run
its course, there’s surely no harm in letting
out an office secret. When the prize stories
in the First Competition were being con-
sidered as serials, it was thought there was
so much likeness between “Coonardoo” and
“Men Are Human” that it was doubtful
whether it would be possible to print both.
But Vance Palmer’s story was so beautifully
written that it simply had to be used;
publication was, however, pushed off as far
as possible. And that was why “Coonardoo”
was printed first of the eight selected stories
and “Men Are Human” last —to give the
widest possible interval between them. And
then Fate played one of its impish tricks,
and another of Vance Palmer’s stories, “The
Passage,” was put first in the Second Com-
petition ; so the remarkable thing happened
that The Bulletin is printing two of the
one writer’s novels side by side.
Incidentally, one of Tasmania’s best-
known writers drops a line:—
Like most others, I fancy, I’m delighted that
Vance Palmer has won the first prize this year. In
sincerity, characterisation, style and general interest
I think “Men Are Human” is far and away
superior to any that have so far appeared. In
fact, I’ll whisper that I was somewhat disappointed
with the others; but this tale has the simplicity
of genius.
This is a Falk picture of the attractive
wife of America’s new Consul-General in
Sydney. She is Mrs. R. C. Tredwell, and she
has already identified herself with the Ameri-
can Women’s
Circle, of
which as Con-
sul - General’s
wife she auto-
matically be-
comes the
president. This
industrious
group of ladies
meets through-
out the year to
stitch in the
interests of the
city’si hospitals
and other
charitable in-
stitutions. The
interests of the
English-Speak-
i n g Union,
too, Mrs
Tredwell
makes her
own, and her
popularity was assured even before she
declared that she found the women of Syd-
ney very charming. The Wentworth, on
Church Hill, is her present home.
Beulah Bolton should have felt proud as
well as happy after receiving “this token
of love” when she opened a handsome hand-
bag and saw, by cheque, the high valuation
her co-members of the Victoria League place
upon her services as secretary. The au revoir
gift was handed over yesterday at the Royal
Society’s rooms by Miss Macarthur Onslow,
with flowers and several bouquets of words,
a very choice one coming from Mrs. Roystone
Davey, who has worked with Beulah for the
league, the Bush Book Club and other
worthy and needful causes in a harmony
that has cemented friendship for over 11
years. Beulah Bolton leaves by the Orama
to-day: she has six mouths’ leave of absence
from the Bush Book Club and the Victoria
League, and during her absence Miss Nancy
Norris will keep her chair warm.
The Premier’s recently-married daughter,
Mrs. John Horn, leaves by the same ship
with her sailor.
Those who experienced the mingled gladness
and sadness of meeting returning soldiers at
the Anzac Buffet in the Domain during the
later war days will have no difficulty in
recalling Annie Evans, with her pearl and
shell-pink complexion and silver hair. The
King recognised her years of voluntary
service with an 0.8. E. Well, she has just
returned from a holiday in Europe, and a
good slice of it she spent in our Soldiers’
Gethsemane. She was three weeks on the
battlefields, spending most of the time trying
to get the names of the Ist and 7th Division
men who disappeared. All the names are
on Menin Gate, photographs of which she
has brought back with her. She walked for
a mile on Vimy Ridge through the tunnel
dug by the Canadian and English troops
partly under the German lines, and stood on
Hill 60, where the mud still squelched over
her shoes.
But her trip was not all pilgrimage. Miss
Evans did all the conventional tours and
had an orgy of theatres, and she noted
with satisfaction that the seven principal
theatres had Australian artists playing lead;
but she was dissatisfied at not being able to
obtain an Australian flag anywhere in Lon-
don, not even at Australia House. But she
was very pleased to be able to obtain The
Bulletin at almost any newspaper stall. It
is the one Australian thing, she declares,
that you don’t have to rummage the city
to find.
John Wren’s wife and daughter Eleanor
are travelling by Orient liner to Europe to
visit the married daughter and sister who
lives in Berlin, where her husband is a pro-
fessor of languages. John’s family has strong
leanings towards culture. a "couple
residence at Santa Sophia Col e& course
of years ago while doing the .aits course
at the University. She didn t gra . >
she did have a mild pen wa? vfa. of th(i
Professor Chris Brennan. A P „j av
Western Suburbs wrote a “> ir M ‘
Eleanor criticised it severely m a .
Catholic paper. Chris Brennan wrote m
the padre’s defence. Eleanor cam „
him, whereupon the Professor told
she knew too little to argue and recpm
mended her to go back .fif® ' J to get
replied that some people didnt se ®
wisdom with learning—and then ■ _
announced that the controversy had
Eva and Vera O’Sullivan, daughters of the
late E. W. O’Sullivan, who was Minister for
Works in John See’s Government in the nrst
days of the century, are leaving to day
(April 23) by the Taiping for a holiday to.u
in Hongkong, Singapore and Java.
Mrs. P. Leahy, loved for her public and
private acts of charity and kindliness, was
given a send-off by residents ot Mosman
the local town hall before starting out foi
London and the Continent. Judge Thomson
presided. The Federal and State members,
the Mayors and their respective spouses were
in the front row when the travelling-case and
a camera were handed over.
John Ryder-Jones, of the Perpetual Trus-
tee Co., is bringing a bride to the old Ryder-
Jones family mansion at Plunter s Hill. _Mie
is Ina Pringle, of Mosman, and the marriage
takes place to-day.
The Royal Empire Society demonstrated
goodwill to U.S.A. by fating America s new
Consul-General and Mrs. Roger Tredwell in
David Jones’s private luncheon rooms on
Good Friday’s eve. The George Earps gave
the official glad hand to the youthful-looking
pair, the American lady tastefully attired m
a brown ensemble. The Consul-General gave
a little lecturette on tolerance, urging tra-
vellers to judge a country not by what they
missed but by what they found.
For Mrs. James Patrick the sorrows of
parting were so well drowned in _ tea that
she’s contemplating the Orama’s sailing with
smiles. The biggest farewells were staged at
the Royal Automobile Club and at the Mos-
man home of the Winns, whose daughter
Heather is to wed son Ken in the near
future. Ken and his father, of the intrepid
Patrick line of steamers, have been killing
lions and other jungle beasts in Africa, and
will be awaiting mamma in London.
That fine friend of the bushman. Padre
Dorin, of the Inland Mission, again asks
this Letter to remind anyone with maga-
zines or books no longer needed, that
the pioneers in the heart of Australia and
the Far Nor’-West are yearning for reading
matter. He also wants to say thank you
for the last big response “and send again.
Parcels may be sent to the secretary of the
A.I.M. in any State —92b Pitt-street, Syd-
ney ; Ann-street, Brisbane ; 156 Collins-street,
Melbourne; Flinders-street, Adelaide; and
12 Pier-street, Perth.
This year the first prize for bees and honey
at the Sydney Show was won by a woman
for the first time. Miss Ivy Massey, who
breaks the ice, is a lady with close-cropped
hair and a mannish costume, including a
stiff collar. For 30 years she lias run a farm
on her own account, and specialised in bees;
her family has been on the land in the
Maitland district for 86 years.
Nina Murdoch, who first came into promi-
nence iii our literary world by winning first
place in the “Sonnets of the Months” com-
petition in the Red Page while still in her
teens, has had a poem of 60,000 words
accepted by Angus and Robertson, and it is
now in the press. It is called* “Seventh
Heaven,” and is the poetic tale of Nina’s
wanderings in Europe. She wrote it for
her mother, and it was not intended for
publication, but the few privileged to read
the MS. persuaded the writer to submit it to
A. and R„ who seized it. She already has two
published books of poems to her credit. It was
of Nina, by the way, that John Longstaff
said she was the only girl he had ever seen
who looked exactly as he thought a singer
of sweet songs should look; and he asked
for the pleasure of painting her portrait,
lie painted it —and presented it to her hus-
band, Duncan Brown, who is also in printer’s
ink: he is assistant news editor of Mel-
bourne “Sun Pictorial.”
The Big Brother ball is to be the social
flutter in June. It is dated for the fourth,
and as the new Governor and his lady have
already been netted, the committee is going
to turn it into a welcome. The Chief
Justice’s lady is the president and the
organising is in the hands of Mrs. Ferrari
Passmore.
April 30 and All Saints’, Woollahra.
have been marked in her appointment-book
by Neryl Ilollinshead, of Edgecliff. Then
and there she is to marry Ken Wheeler, sou
of Fordyce. Toasts at the Australia.
OVERHEARD.
Country Cousin (at the races') : “Isn’t that
woman’s complexion perfect!”
City Cousin: “Well, it ought to be. She’s
practised on, it for years.”


OVENWARE
English Manufacture.
Direct from
Oven to table
fARLTON OVEN-
WARE is fashioned
for oven and table use,
and quite different to
other ovenware.
EASY TO CLEAN
No pots and pans are
necessary and the grease
simply won’t stay on after
the ware has been used.
FREE illustrated leaflet of Casseroles,
Baking and Pudding Dishes, Stew Pots,
etc., (50 different pieces) from
F. R. BARLOW & SONS PTY., LTD.,
328 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
w
Price of
medium size
Round Casserole
12/9
Smedley Service.
Public Notice,
A CORRECTION.
jWIESSRS. BROWN & DUREAU,
LIMITED, Australian Distributors of
Westclox, have notified that the “Westclox”
advertisement which appeared in our issue
of April 9 showed the price of “Big Ben”
as 21/-. This is an error. The correct
price is 17/6.
Amusements.
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
K -' J. O. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE BELLE OF NEW YORK.
CRITERION: JOURNEY’S END.
ROYAL. THE HAWK.
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Direction E. J. Gravestock, Ltd.
SATURDAY, APRIL 26, at 8.
Also APRIL 29, MAY 1, 3 and 6.
MATINEE, THURSDAY, MAY 8.
BACKHAUS,
WORLD’S GREATEST PIANIST.
“Fortunate indeed is the pianist who can fill
Queen’s Hall as Mr. Wilhelm Backhaus filled it last
night. The reason for his abiding popularity is not
far to seek, for even in these days of super-pianism
he is pre-eminent.” —London “Daily Telegraph
February 26, 1929.
Plans open at Nicholsons, 416-418 George Street,
TUESDAY, APRIL 22. Reserved seats, 12/3 and
8/9. Unreserved seats, 5/9 and 3/5, including- taxes.
TOWN HALL, MELBOURNE,
COMMENCING SATURDAY, MAY 24.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
* MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
COMMENCING SATURDAY, APRIL 26,
GLADYS MONCRIEFF in,
THE MERRY WIDOW.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE:
NELLIE STEWART in
ROMANCE.
j£ IN G’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
WHITE & EDGLEY’S NEW MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
in
LOVE LIES.
UOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
NORMA SHEARER in,
THEIR OWN DESIRE
(All Talking).
ALSO
Universal First Release All Talkie,
THE THREE GODFATHERS,
With CHARLES PICIvFORD, RAYMOND HATTON
and FRED KOHLER.
(Both Pictures Conditional.)
pOR THE KINDERGARTEN UNION
AND THE SYDNEY DAY NURSERY
ASSOCIATION.
GRAND OPENING BALL,
FARMERS’ BLAXLAND GALLERIES,
APRIL 30, 9 p.m. to 1 a.m.
Tickets, 15/-, may be obtained from the Kinder-
garten Union, Sydney Day Nursery Association, or
the Hotel Australia.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
1
zrs
' DOM
II
“ By my Noble-
man’s word, I
have never
tasted better
IN 1534, Francis I. gave the
new elixir Benedictine
his Royal endorsement in
enthusiastic terms. And to-
day, Benedictine is still the
choice of connoisseurs and
discriminating hosts the
world over. As a liqueur its
wonderful flavour and de-
lightful bouquet have placed
it in a class apart. A dash of
Benedictine in your Cock-
tails will improve them
tremendously, too. Try it!
For Four Centuries the World’s
Supreme Liqueur
BENEDICTINE
A New Set of
LODGE
PLUGS
Is a wonderful stimulus to
your engine.
Sports Plug (Model HI) is built
for hot work and stands up to the
highest engine speeds without a
sign of pre-ignition.
In sealed
metal box.
6/9
m
m
m
LODGE PLUGS
LTD., RUGBY
ENG.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND,
ROCKHAMPTON.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
Mr. Justice Brennan.
BETWEEN JOSEPH SKINNER Plaintiff
And JEAN SKINNER Defendant.
To JEAN SKINNER.
TAKE NOTICE that Joseph Skinner of Rock-
hampton in the State of Queensland has commenced
an action against you in the Supreme Court of
Queensland at Rockhampton by Writ dated the
fourth day of March 1930 claiming a dissolution of
marriage on the ground of your desertion and that
if you wish to defend the said action you must cause
an appearance to he entered for you in the Supreme
Court Rockhampton within thirty days from the
date of publication of this advertisement and that
in default of your so doing the said Joseph Skinnei
may by leave of the Court or a Judge proceed
therein and judgment may be given against you in
your absence.
DATED the seventh day of April, 1930.
[l.s.] D. R. GAIR,
Registrar.
Grant and Stumm, Solicitors for the Plaintiff,
Quay Street, Rockhampton.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Botel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensladds
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Laurie Graham will be married at St.
Andrew's before this sees print to T. Robert-
son, of Indooroopilly. Laurie is a daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Graham, of Ramies
(C.Q.). ITer mother was Ruby Mayne, a
TVowoomba girl, and her paternal grand-
father was William Graham, a sometime
M.L.C. Pearl Rigby is marrying the Rev.
S. Y. Potter, East Ipswich, this week at
the Windsor Methodist kirk. An engagement
that will interest many is that of Emily
Hood, the champion lawn-tennis player,
daughter of the R. Hoods, of Cleveland, and
grand-daughter of the late Judge Harding.
Victor C. Westacott is the lucky man. Yet
another engagement is that of Viola King,
of Ascot, to Bernard O’Reilly, of Beaudesert.
Cecil John Morley, Chelmer, and Edith,
only daughter of the late 11. G. Milner,
Chelmer, and niece of the late Lord North-
cliffe, were made one at St. Ann’s Presby-
terian church. The bride was in white crepe
romaine and a vandyked tulle veil, worn
with a cap of Brussels lace and orange
blooms. The ’maids, Beryl Morley and Beryl
Milner, wore Mary-blue mariette and blue
gathered summer felt hats with apricot
touches. Atcherley saw the breakfast; the
travelling rig-out was brown, with a shell-
pink blouse.
At a meeting of the National Council of
Women several speakers advocated a more
rigid censorship of cinema films. Mrs. Cum-
brae Stewart, president, stressed the in-
fluence of screen stories on the mind of
youth. Canon Dixon thought that some pic-
tures were exceedingly harmful to young
people. This seemed to be the general
opinion. After which, of course, the picture-
show proprietors took a hand and argued
that there was nothing worse in films than
in novels.
Some beautiful orchids from Singapore
have been sent to the Brisbane Botanic
gardens, to the delight of Curator E. W.
Bick.
The old folks had their at-home in the
City Hall, when the Lord Mayor welcomed
them and paid a tribute to the pioneers. Days
were recalled when settlers were bushed and
others speared by blacks in what are now
city blocks or populous suburbs. J. W. Wake-
ley (90) told how he landed in Brisbane 65
years ago with a wife, four children and
half a crown, when the G.P.O. was a
shingled hut. W. H. Bond (81) recalled
swimming in a creek where the Town Hall
now stands, and another veteran remem-
bered when a rickety piano was Brisbane’s
only musical instrument. Dailey Scarlett
nlayed old time airs on the organ. Some of
the guests leaned on sticks, others on
crutches, and there was a wonder of long
white beards.
There was a good big roll up for the first
night of Leon Gordon’s “White Cargo” at
His Majesty’s, when Dulcie Cherry played
Tondelayo. “The Trial of Mary Dugan” is
the Easter programme, with Mary Macgregor
again in the company.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The crowning of the Queen of Charity
took place in Temple Court ballroom. Heral-
ded by “Land of Hope and Glory,” drummers
and trumpeters, the winner, Miss Ida Wil-
liamson, walked up the floor to the throne
in a white satin gown caught with brilliant
buckles on the shoulders to a long train lined
with ruched shell pink and embroidered with
silver water-lilies. Her attendants wore tulle
and taffeta. Rene Ing, the 'petite runner-up,
arrayed her attendants in blusli-pink tulle,
all frills edged with jade. Kathleen Q’Brien
wore her satin flares falling into a point
at the back of her ankles; her supporters
were in cream lace over primrose. The other
nine competitors wore ankle-length white
satin. J. W. Kirwan did the crowning, after
which royalty and the near-royalties unhooked
their plumage and danced merrily.
Henri Van Raalte, who now keeps an eye
on the Adelaide Art Gallery, spent many
years here teaching youthful hands to wield
a pencil and experimenting with his etching
press. Van Raalte is Dutch by birth, but
he developed a sincere love for the land of his
adoption, and almost always chose Australian
subjects for his work. In tlie exhibition of
his etchings, drypoints and aquatints at the
Booklovers are some excellent pieces ; gnarled
forest monarchs and wind-blown saplings show
the artist at his best. Prices range from
30s. to 40 guineas.
Mrs. Jack Hargrave invited a bevy of
maids and matrons to an afternoon bridge
party in her little Spanish villa in South
Perth. The hostess’s frock of tiered crepe
de Chine was of a brighter red than the
profusion of dahlias blooming in garden and
lounge. Among the guests were Mesdames
Ilewby, Norrie, Berry, Reg Forsaith, Giles, A.
L. Thompson Geoff Lynn, Sita Stapleton,
Doreen O’Hara and Mollie Atkins.
This year the gay undergrads, cut out
their traditional procession and staged instead
some “Varsity Frolics” in the Theatre Royal.
The audience, composed mostly of ’Varsity
folk, was in an agreeable mood and listened
to about three-quarters of the programme.
The funniest item was the “Wedding of the
Painted Doll” with the most muscular bride
who ever stepped under a veil. Funds go
,towards furnishing a room in the new college.
Blooms the size of a breakfast-plate
down to wee pompoms were on view at the
Town Hall dahlia show, opened by Lady
Campion. Since the last show two keen fan-
ciers, George Hayman and Jack Reading,
have died. In their memory, P. Hood presented
the Hayman-Reading Remembrance Trophy
to go each year to the grower of the best
seedling dahlia raised in the Sta*te. 11. E.
Mofflin was the first to carry home the
cup, with his Pride of Darlington. Mrs.
Gerring’s gorgeous yellow Rene Chatel was
the champion dahlia.
Donations towards a monument to be
raised over the grave of the late Keith
Anderson may be sent to the acting Lord
Mayor. Four-fifth's of the necessary £5OO
has been raised, mostly in Sydney.
Toi become a good skater is worth a few
bruises, so the enthusiasts think who disport
themselves at Como or on the Mount’s Bay
Road rink. The pastime is hard on hosiery,
though; so tennis socks over bar legs are
the fashion. The craze was reborn suddenly;
it is nine years since rollers were previously
oiled in Perth.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
There was a capital attendance at the
A.R.C. meeting at Victoria Park. The
women resolutely ignored the summery
weather and came out in all the glory of
their new winter coats and furs. Chairman
James Hall was assisted by daughter Gwen
in entertaining the guests at luncheon and
afternoon tea. She was frocked in rose-pink
woollen georgette, worn with a brown velour
hat and a stone-marten fur. The brimless
felt was much in evidence, and Burns’s
“Wad some power the giftie gie us” was
doubtless recalled by many “ithers.”
The Repertory Theatre gave its third
and last performance of “The Truth About
Blayds” in the presence of his Ex. and Lady
llore-Rutliven. It was the Theatre’s first
effort in their new hall, which is a great
improvement on the old location. Professor
Archibald Strong and Mrs. Ernest Good did
the honors.
There was a big crowd on the banks of
Torrens to watch the schools contest
the headship of the river. St. Peter’s Col-
lege carried off the honors. The Renmark
High School journeyed to the city to com-
pete and was given a very encouraging wel-
come.
St. Mark’s College, the first residential
student home to start in connection with
Adelaide University, has evidently met a
want. Its only rival so far is St. Andrew’s,
and that is in a distant suburb. St. Mark’s,
which is the old John Downer home and a
five-minute run from the ’Varsity, opened
in 1925 with a handful of students; it has
just bought the adjoining house of Arch-
deacon Bussell, close to the cathedral, and
one of Adelaide’s oldest buildings. The col-
lege can now take 50 students, but talks con-
fidently of working up to 200 in time. Gren-
fell Price, the geographer-historian, is the
head.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
This picture shows the veteran Mrs. Henry
Dobson, one of the Speck’s most prominent
and energetic
social workers,
who sailed a
few weeks ago
for Europe
after a round
of farewells
from the many
public bodies
to which she
belongs. Mrs.
Dobson is the
only Austra-
lian life vice-
p r e s i dent of
the Council of
Women, and
she is presi-
de n t also of
the Speck’s
branch. She
hopes to get to
Vienna for the
conference of
National Wo-
men. Her daughter Marguerite, who goes
with her, will attend the Y.W.C.A. confer-
ence. at Geneva in June, she being the Tassie
president of that organisation.
Among those who have left for a trip
overseas during the last few weeks are W.
H. Cummins, the general manager of the
Hobart “Mercury,” and his wife. The “Mer-
cury’s” send off took place at the Imperial,
when about 300 guests were present. Chair-
man C. B. Davies led off the speechifying,
Editor W. Simmons following. Tea was
served at small tables, the one reserved for
the guests of honor bearing a large gilded
basket of gold and purple flowers.
Dr. and Mrs. Gowan, with daughter and
son Dorothy and lan, were passengers by
the Orontes for the Cold Country. The W.
J. Strutts sailed by the same boat.
The Launceston Operatic Society brought
“The Girls of Gottenburg” to the Theatre
Royal, and provided a bright little enter-
tainment. There have been several exchanges
of theatrical shows between North and South
in the last year or two, with excellent
results.
The Hobart Orchestral Society’s first con-
cert of the season was quite the most success-
ful conductor Glanville Bishop has staged.
The star number (Saint Saens’s concerto in
G minor) was remarkably well rendered,
with Mdme. Helen George as soloist. Mdme.
Vera Tasma, on a. visit to her home town,
sang sweetly and had a great reception.
The Midland Hunt Club began its winter
activities with a meet at St. Mary’s. There
was a big roll up, and refreshments were
dispensed by Mr. and Mrs. Eric Ransome, at
Killymoon.
Paton and Baldwin’s woollen mills in
Launceston are being extended; the firm ex-
pects to put on an extra 100 hands during
the winter.
We have had a party of Empire visitor
touring through the Speck—five offshoots
of a party of 90, who left England and
Canada, and have split up, returning by
different routes —and they reckon we have
less to grumble about than most places they
have called at.
Joan, only chick of the J. H. Ilenrys,
Devonport, is engaged to Tom Bowling, "of
King Island. The young folk are being
deluged with congratulations.


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
S 3 S 3
?;• S 3 33
V tf
'lf!
g£f
1 > u
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
TARIFF —PER DAY, Room and Meals, 25/-
Room and Breakfast, 15/-
Melbourne Telephone: F 4141.
CLIFTON GARDENS HOTEL
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Limited).
Sydney's well-known Harbor Hotel
ẃ
QUIET RESTFUL
COOL Open to the
Summer Sea Breezes,
with Private Beach and
Amphitheatre Swimming
Baths, Spacious Grounds
and Garage Accommoda-
tion.
TARIFF:
From Guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTER-
NOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes’
trip from City by Ferry
or Motor.
RESERVATIONS:
Y3O 1 2 (4 lines) .
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
womans paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
214 Georce Street, Sydney.
THE PASSACE
BY VANCE PALMER
ILLUSTRATIONS BY ARIA
“ ‘You're not listening, Lew. You never do listen when I talk about myself.
Ij it was something about bouts or fishing’”
Synopsis : His father, Boh Cal-
laway, drowned at the b cm* of the
Passage, Lew has to support his
mother, Hughie and two other child-
ren. Lew is a fisherman, satisfied
enough with the life, hut slightly dis-
gruntled at the idea of having to carry
the heavy end of the log all his days.
He especially resents the determina-
tion of his mother (Anna) not to allow
Hughie to become a fisherman. Hughie,
Lew admits to himself, has brains j it
is Hughie Uncle Tony calls when any-
thing is wrong with his boat, and
Kunlcel at the store sends for him when
he is behind with his accounts. The
mother is also disturbed —over Lew’s
attachment for Clem McNair, daugh-
ter of a man who has made money out
of patent medicine and oions land on
one side of the Passage. She believes
Clem, who lives in the city, and comes
to the Passage only occasionally, is
out of Lew’s class.
CHAPTER 111.
The McNair Girl.
A WARM sun. was shining down on
the rocks, though the breeze coming
from the land had a tang of cold in
it, and nipped the flesh. In the clear air
the pandanus palms of the headland stood
out as distinctly as if their spiky fronds
bad been etched on the sky, and the massed
tea-trees that usually were a wash of
greyish-green showed their chalk-white
papery trunks and innumerable separate
leaves. The sand that the outgoing tide
had left bare was wrinkled in sharp, definite
furrows. Further out the combers rose in
green curves, breaking with a soft crash
like the splintering of fine glass, and along
the line of foam sea-birds flew with harsh
cries, dipping down occasionally and rising
heavily again with a flutter of wet wings.
Lew and the girl who lay beside him
drank up through their pores the warmth
that came from the flat sandstone rocks.
It soaked through them, that warmth,
gradually setting their blood in motion after
the shock of the sea’s icy freshness. Lew
was less conscious than the girl of the dif-
ference in temperature, for he was used to
standing waist-deep in the water at all
seasons, so that now he could laugh at
the gooseflesh look of her legs and arms,
and at the way her teeth chattered. Clem
had never liked the cold, he remembered.
When they had hunted for cowries in the
winter months she had always shrunk from
wetting her feet even, and liked to curl up
in sheltered places among the rocks. No
cat could have been fonder of the sun.
She would sprawl in it and bake for hours,
and there was enough natural darkness in
her skin to keep her from burning.
She lay now with her head pillowed on
a rock and her knees drawn up slightly,
her body small and slim beside Lew’s,
though they were of the one age. In their
features there was the same difference.
Clem’s finely-cut nose, small mouth and
faint, curved brows had the look of things
delicately designed; Lew’s features were as
clumsily moulded as if a child had worked
in the rough clay. Only the eyes, dark
and smouldering, gave intensity to his face.
He lay with one arm propped beneath his
head, watching some figures on the sand
a hundred yards away, while Clem talked
with jerky inconsequence of what she had
been doing in the past year and what she
planned for the future. She had joined a
sketching club and painted hard every day,
but had she talent enough to be anything
more than one of those futile women who
did pretty little water-colors for their
friends? There had always been a feeble-
ness in her drawing, a lack of firm bone.
Old Monty had been enthusiastic about
the way she attacked things, but he pro-
bably talked in the same strain to every-
one whose fees were secure; and anyway
he was a bit of a dud himself, doing his
sentimental river-glimpses and foisting
them off on rich drapers. Th<?n there was
the question of earning a living. Her
father was thinking of marrying again—one
of the women he ought to have married
years ago—and she had no intention of
living on as a third party in the home.
“Not that we’ve ever had any home life
to break' up,” she said, “but you can guess
the sort of woman this Christine is. And
to have her straightening up our lollopy
way of living and poking into my private
affairs —no, I couldn’t stick that. I’ll have
to get out, even if it means serving behind
a counter or retouching photographs. The
worst of it is I’m dead lazy. Never had
the slightest itch to earn my living at what
most people call useful work.”
Her eyes narrowed to dark slits as she
lay back looking at the sky, exposing her
doubts about herself, and trying to draw
assurances from Lew. He only responded
with an occasional gruff word or two. It
wasn’t the sort of talk in which he could
join freely. How could he tell whether she
would ever be able to paint? He had only
seen her rough sketches of animals and bits
of landscape, and they never looked quite
real, not much better than what he could
do himself. Besides, painting seemed an
unlikely way of earning a living. He didn’t
know whether Clem was quite serious about
it or whether she was just talking in the
air. And he was watching the three horses
tied to a half-buried log in the sand, and
wondering whether the young fellow talking
to Lena Christensen was her brother or
the new book-keeper who had just come
to Glenrowan.
Clem sat up at last and looked at him
with her twisted, impatient smile.
“You’re not listening, Lew. You never
do listen when I talk about myself. If it
was something about boats or fishing”
He grunted in dissent.
“No, I don’t want you to talk about
them. I can do that.”
“But you won’t, my dear boy. You
never tell me what you’ve been doing or
thinking. And when I rattle on about
things I’ve been chewing over, you’re silent
as an owl.”
It was true, he knew. But, then, he
always kept his mouth shut when other
people were talking. His answers came
afterwards, when he was alone.
“I was born tongue-tied,” he said with
a slow grin. “Aunt Rachel operated on me
when I was about five with a pair of
kitchen-scissors, but it was a mucked-up
job, I’m a good listener, though. Keep
on, Clem.”
“No,” she said stubbornly, “don’t flatter
yourself about that —you’re not even a
good listener, Lew. Not lately, anyway.
My chatter just drips off you like water
off a whale’s back.... It doesn’t matter.”
She had followed the direction of his
eyes and was looking at the three horses
tied to the driftwood and the girl in the
emerald bathing-suit standing talking to
two men lying in the sand. Vaguely she
recognised the tall, plump figure, the
dazzling white skin, the yellow hair that
had a silkjr gloss about it. It must be the
Christensen girl from Glenrowan, come over
for the day. She watched her flicking one
of the men with her towel, her low, musical
laugh floating over faintly on the crystal
air. The distance was too great for her
features to be seen distinctly, but Clem
could visualise them —the snub nose, the
full, red lips, the pale-blue eyes that had
something opalescent in them and always
seemed to be reflecting fields of ice. Blue
ice under a cold sun! But it was the milky-
whiteness of the skin she remembered best.
It had taken her breath away when she
had seen it first, years ago, in the darkness
of the old bathing-shed under the cliff. Her
own brown skin could never seem so splen-
didly naked.
“Lena’s home again,” she said, a touch
of dryness in her voice. “I used to see her
in town sometimes —never without at least
two boys hanging round her. Does she
come over here often?”
“Don’t know. Haven’t seen her for
donkeys’ years—since she was a lanky slip
of a girl. Lots of people come here I
don’t see, though. This isn’t my end of
the beach.”
“But you’re surely not so anchored to
the Passage as all that?”
“Why not? My work’s there, and Im
generally up to my neck in it.”
He had deliberately turned his back on
the girl in the emerald bathing-suit, and
was staring down into the deep lock-pool
on the other side of them, where the water-
weeds fruited with berries swayed gently
(Continued on next page.)


After all theres only one'Australia'
o
f
J
yt
:ny
mm
f i
Sydney’s Centre
FOR your convenience “The Australia” is
set in the very centre of things. A quiet
and luxurious oasis from which you can, at
your pleasure, step forth into the busy whirl
of office, shop and theatre.
Single Room, with breakfast, from 15/- per day.
Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel,” Sydney. Illustrated folder on request.
Capital paid-up i
M 22,100.
ẅ
The Hotel of the
Commonwealth,
Sydney.
to some hidden tide, and bright, barred
fish, the length of a finger, darted from
crevice to crevice. Closed anemones the
color of rubies studded the dry portions
of rock, but deeper down they unfolded
their tendrils; he stretched down an idle
hand to feel their prickly surface. Again
Clem followed the direction of his eyes.
How often had they gazed down into those
rock-pools that were so filled with minute,
intense life. There was a water-moss softer
than velvet that changed to different shades
of green as the hand passed over it. Would
Lew have ever noticed this beauty of
pattern and color if she hadn’t been there
to turn his eyes outward?
She felt that he wouldn’t. But perhaps
there were more ways than one of being
aware of things. He absorbed them through
that big, slow body of his, made them
part of him, wdiile she moved round rest-
lessly observing everything from the out-
side. It was the sense he gave her of a
strong, unconscious life rooted in the earth
about it that had always drawn her to
him. All the Callaways had it, but none
so definitely as Lew. And she was horribly
aware of lacking it herself.
She put her hand on his bare shoulder
suddenly.
“Look, Lew r ; there’s a cowrie!”
“Where?”
“Just under that ledge of rock. You’ll
see it when the weed sways.”
He slipped into the water as quietly as
a seal. It was up to his neck, but there
was a bottom of sand and water-worn
pebbles, and the pool was clear as glass.
Diving down he explored for a few moments
under the sea-grass, and came up flirting
the water from his eyes.
“Got it,” he said, clambering to the warm
ledge of rock again.
Together they bent over the cowrie, which
was as big as the girl’s closed fist, traced
with delicate patterns and lustrous as
enamel. On the underside a hole, small
as the prick of a needle, showed them where
the parasite had bored in to destroy the
life of the helpless fish. And there this
miraculous shell would have lain to peel
and become scabrous if their eyes hadn’t
chanced upon it! The thought made
Clem’s brows knit slightly, and her expres-
sion change to one of brooding bewilder-
ment. How often had she been tormented
by the mystery of this prodigal creation oT
beauty that went hand in hand with a
callous disregard of the thing achieved.
What was the point of making a cowrie so
jewelled and enchanting if its main purpose
was to feed a parasite in some dark crevice?
The parasite was probably a low type of
worm, slimy and disgusting. She shivered
as she looked at the tiny hole.
“Come on—you’re cold,” said Lew, spring-
ing up. “We’ll have another dip and then
streak out to dress.”
They leapt from the rocks and ran over
the corrugated sand that was hard beneath
the feet. Lew took the lead, racing through
the foam that curdled round his knees
and plunging under a green-curved breaker
to come up in the smooth water beyond.
He seemed to be more alive in the water
than on land. His brown arms cut the
surface like sculls, and when he had swum
out far enough he lay on his back looking
at the far sky and the white birds that
were being blown out to sea like feathers,
fading into invisibility through some freak
of light and then appearing again with a
touch of silver on them. It was his holiday.
He was happy in a deep, drowsy way, and
he hardly remembered the look in his
mother’s eyes when she said it was another
good day for deep-sea fishing. She knew
well enough why he was taking the day off.
And anyhow it was his own affair!
“All work and no play” he thought,
foreseeing the long winter nights ahead
when the mullet would be coming in.
A little distance away swam Clem, look-
ing down through the clear green water at
the sea-floor, which was bare as swept
boards except for an occasional shell or
bunch of weed. Afloat in that buoyant
world you could forget to think; forget
everything but the life of the senses. She
was not cold now she was in the water;
it still had some of the warmth of summer
left, and there was a silky softness in its
touch. When she turned over on her back
there was a dull vibration in her ears that
muffled Lew’s voice, calling across the water.
The sky was a deep blue, and a few
stationary clouds hung near the sun. They
were white —as miraculously white as Lena’s
skin! She couldn’t help turning her eyes
to the beach where the other girl, now
dressed, was picnicking with the two men
under the shade of a banksia.
CHAPTER IV.
The Bungalow.
Clem McNair had come down to try to
prevent her father from selling the old
bungalow and the forty acres of land that
stood between the fishing-village and the
new settlement at Sully’s Beach. They had
been arguing about the matter at intervals
in the train and in the car, but they always
came to a deadlock. Clem had no argu-
ments that counted, really. She knew very
little about her father’s affairs, and took no
interest in them. He seemed to have plenty
of money: enough, anyhow, for the neces-
sities of their rather ramshackle way of
living. Yet. he might be feeling the pinch
of hard times, in spite of the large adver-
tisements that gave her a gooseflesh feel-
ing when she ran across them in the papers:
“Do you wake with a furry tongue? Are
you concealing, like thousands of other
sufferers, a secret malady that saps your
strength? Then don’t hesitate a moment
longer, but come straight to me. I can
put my finger on the root of the trouble
and bring vitality back to you.”
A generous offer that thousands had
availed themselves of, in spite of the sneers
of the organised profession. The girl had
no notion whether that portrait with the
curled, silky hair and magnetic eyes was
becoming less powerful in its influence over
readers of country papers, but she regretted
anything that might lead her father to sell
the bungalow. Yet she couldn’t explain the
passion she felt for the place. It was too
deep and fundamental, too rooted in her
LENA, “the Christensen Girl.”
intimate self. Her imagination had its
growth there; the few months she had
spent there every year as a child was the
time when she lived; she had run wild with
her brothers and Lew Callaway, soaking
herself in the sun and the sea-lore of the
fishermen. Even now when she woke in
the morning and saw the yellow sandbanks,
the smooth nose of Rathbone Island, the
feathery she-oaks at the point, she had a
peculiar feeling, as if all these things had
something particular to say to her. No
use hinting this to her father, though. He
w T ould probably .look at her with the con-
centrated glance that said:
“Are you concealing, like thousands of
other sufferers, a secret malady?”
She had never discovered that he had
any sentiment for the place himself. He
had built the bungalow years ago as a
refuge when he wanted to slip off for a
quiet week-end with a companion. And now
he was thinking of marrying again, after
having ignored during the more vigorous
part of his life the scandal he had caused.
Clem sat by the fire, turning over an
old book of photographs, and covertly
watching him as he fitted together the sec-
tions of a rod in preparation for the next
day’s fishing. There was an absorption in
his face that gave him a childish look, in
spite of his bald head, greying moustache
stained with tobacco, and flabby figure that
filled out the loose holland suit at the
wrong places. Once he had been regarded
as a dashing, iconoclastic sort of man,
quick to use his tongue or his pen against
opponents and expose the humbug of ordi-
nary medical conventions; but a secret soft-
ness in him had made him sink into old
age early. His skin had a pinky smoothness
about it; the fringe of hair that fell over
his collar behind looked as if it was meant
to be stroked; the hands that held the
rod were puffy and inclined to fumble. Not
much vitality to spare for the hordes of
people who were ready to buy it from him
for spot cash!
Yet the girl’s eyes were indulgent enough
as she watched him at work. She had
long ago taken him for what he was, a
fussy, good-natured old charlatan, whose
vanity was relieved by his whimsical humor,
and whose pockets were always open when
she wanted money. He had never been
overbearing in the home; his interests lay
too often outside it. Looking back, the
girl felt that the liberty he had allowed her
had been responsible for most of her
growth. He had asked nothing of any of
his children but that they should be
amusing when he had time to spend with
them; and he very rarely had time while
they were young. As soon as holidays came
they were packed off with a housekeeper
to this old bungalow, where very early they
learnt the secrets he took no elaborate care
to hide. Don and Arthur used to speculate
about the last occupant as they went
tumbling about, banging open chests and
cupboards to see that none of the fishing-
tackle or tennis-rackets had gone astray.
“Ginger!” Don would say, examining
some old hairbrush that had fallen behind
a chest of drawers. “Don’t ginger women
fly off the handle over just anything? I
hope lie’s not going to marry that one.”
“Don’t worry,” Arthur would retort, his
sophisticated eyes half-closed behind their
long lashes. “He’s not going to marry any
of’em. Not Buckley’s chance! There won’t
be any stepmothers in this house.”
Those were the days when the bungalow,
hidden in its forty acres of wattle and
banksia, was a world of its own. There
were the shanties belonging to the Callaway
crowd a mile away; there was the lighthouse
on the hill; there were two or three cot-
tages at remote parts of the beach, and
a hotel that was nearly always empty,
except when the fishermen gathered on
Saturday nights or a few anglers came down
for a quiet holiday. Twenty miles of loose,
unmade road lay between the place and
the nearest station, and there was no con-
veyance but the rambling coach that drove
in twice a week for the mails, taking nearly
five hours, on the journey. It had been
an ideal spot for a man seeking privacy
for his beard to grow, or for less legitimate
reasons. But now a change was making
itself felt. Clem and her father had been
noting one alteration after another ever
since they came down. The clearings along
the road, the unpainted box of a public hall,
the cottages breaking the smooth masses
of tea-tree and pitting their gramophones
against the golden whistlers and native
thrushes. Then the fishing!
“Not a patch on what it used to be,”
said the old man, fumbling with the joints
of his rod. “I was out for a couple of
hours this afternoon on the sandbank —
hardly a bite! Once they were rushing
your bait as soon as it hit the water. Too
many nets now, raking those shallows day
and night. The fish have nowhere to lie.”
Clem crossed her knees andsatback,looking
at the slabs of red oak glowing in the grate.
“When does Osborne come down?” she
asked, without turning round.
“At the week-end,” he told her. “I didn’t
tell him I was anxious to sell. No damn
fear! If he’s keen when he comes down,
I’ll run him up to six thousand. It’s not
too big a price. By cutting it up properly
he’ll get his money back twice over.”
She admitted gloomily that it was quite
likely.
“He’ll root out all the trees and slice it
up into filthy little pocket-handkerchief
allotments. Room on each for a two-
roomed shack of fibro-cement, and a place
underneath to store the car! And this
place will be knocked down and broken
up for the jerry-builders.”
“Well, why not?” he said blandly. “It’s
had its day. Thirty years old, and never
had a board renewed. We can’t stand in
the way of development.”
“Development?” she repeated. “Oh, for
Heaven’s sake don’t start talking that
Osborne muck, Dad. A scratch can develop
into a sore, and a quiet little place like
this into a nightmare of land-agents’ notices
and forty-perch allotments.”
He chuckled at the intensity of her voice.
It seemed to him it was only yesterday
that he and half a' dozen other young
fellows had threaded their way up the
Passage, anchoring just inside the bar, and
camping on the she-oak ridge above the
surf. At that time he was still living on
odd jobs as locum in remote hospitals;
it was before the idea of an advertising
campaign had come to him, bringing such
rich fruit. And he had been entranced by
the loveliness of the prospect. Smooth water
on the inside that had a lake-like calm,
surf crashing on the outer beach, mysterious
blue ranges lifting to the sky in the back-
ground. And no one living there but Tony
and Bob Callaway, camped like a couple of
blacks in a bark hut at the mouth of the
saltwater creek. Going back to town,
flushed and exuberant with his holiday, he
had secured a title to forty acres of this
beach for a mere song, but the full benefit
of the bargain did not become clear till
some years later when his wife died and
his little adventures had made a snug
retreat necessary. By that time his photo-
graph—the stereotyped one with the silky
hair, magnetic eyes, arched nostrils —had
become too familiar to most people for him
to feel quite comfortable at crowded resorts.
He stood up, putting his rod in a corner
and feeling for his pipe.
“If I’d unlimited money I wouldn’t mind
hanging on,” he said. “As it is Hating
its damned head off. What’s the interest
on six thousand? About three hundred a
year, isn’t it? Enough to keep a family!
I was talking to Kunkel this afternoon, and
he said that the cutting-up of our property
would be the making of this place. A
couple of hundred bungalows and store-
accounts where only one grew before! What
have you. got against selling, Clem?”
“What?” she repeated, with a queer side-
long flash. “It would keep you up half the
night if I started to tell you. I’m fond of
the place. So are Don and Arthur.”
“Those boys!” he said with raised eye-
brows. “I’m ready to bet a hundred they’ll
never come within coo-ee of it again. Got
a continent to sprawl about in, both of ’em.
Anyway, we could keep a corner of the
ground when we sell, perhaps. Stick up a
little place on it that would do for any
of us that wanted to come back.”
He yawned, blinking at the queer fish
in a glass case on the mantelpiece, grotesque
and bony objects he had once found on
the beach after a storm, when the sea-bed
had given up some of its secrets. Why was
Clem holding out so stubbornly against the
sale, he was wondering? He had already
hinted that the money would be hers:
indeed, it was to make provision for her
after his marriage that he wanted to sell.
Christine and she would never get along
together; they would be like oil and fire.
Yet he couldn’t turn her out to earn her
own living when she had never had any
education to speak of, had done nothing
since she wp,s a youngster but potter about
with music, drawing, and things like that.
“Well, it’s all in the air,” he said, pouring
himself out a nip of whisky. “Osborne’s
never seen the place, and anyhow it’s
quite likely he’ll want it for a shadow of its
value. I won’t sell except on my own terms.”
He trailed off along the verandah, his
loose-heeled slippers dragging on the bare
boards, and Clem could hear the creak of
the stretcher in his room when he sank
down on it. He was getting old, she felt.
No spring in his walk, or in the movements
of his mind. It made the idea of his mar-
riage with Christine all the more ludicrous,
but she didn’t want to do or say anything
that would let him think she was opposed
to it. He had always given her a free run.
Besides, the bringing of another woman to
the house gave her an excuse for breaking
from an association that was meaningless.
She went out on the verandah and looked
moodily over to where the island lay like
a dark, crouching animal in the dim light,
the breakers crashing with a continuous
boom on its thirty-mile beach. A stretch
of broken white showed on the bar where
the tides were meeting, and inside the Pas-
sage the water looked dark and still. A
faint, silky threshing came from the inner
beach, the movement of the swelling tide
over the shingle. In the gnarled banksia
that leant in a heavy way over the strip
of cropped grass in front of the house, a
big night-owl stirred and then fluttered
away on clumsy wings.
“Do I really belong here,” Clem was
thinking, “or have I just been bluffing
(Continued on next page.)


ANGORA and
CHINCHILLA
Rabbits
Immediate Delivery
Nothing but the finest strains
bred from English Pedigree
Stock.
PRICES—Buck or Doe—Cash
with order:
Angora Breeding Stock,
from £4 each
Angora Young Stock,
from £2/10/- each
Chinchilla Breeding Stock,
from £6 each
Chinchilla Young Stock,
from £3 each
All free on board Sydney.
Our reputation has been built on
Quality, Reliability and Service.
Out of 42 awards at the Auckland
Summer Show no less than 35
went to stock originating from
FUR FARMS LTD
Postal Address:
Box 1487 Auckland, N.Z.
Cables: Heyfitz, Auckland.
Rabbit Books, 2/- post free.
w
CWVVAiLtO mm sro*rs*UM
S_ &V 0 /r //V~
**a*or*"nO*\>^
101
ZIN-BIIK
In Your Home
At home and at work Zam-Buk is
needed every day. Children are always
cutting their heads and knees, house-
wives have their painful burns and
scalds. Workers in a score of trades
run daily risk of blood-poison, players
in vigorous games have their bruises
and strains Zam-Buk is marvellous
to soothe and heal.
Pain and inflammation are quickly
allayed by Zam-Buk. It kills bad
germs, prevents-festering and blood-
poison, and grows new skin. Soothing
healing and antiseptic Zam-Buk is
useful for a hundred-and-one skin
troubles. Never be without Zam-Buk
Keep a box in a handy place !
This great herbal ointment never turns
rancid It is unequalled for eczema, pim-
ples, bad legs, ulcers, poisoned wounds,
ringworm, boils, abscesses, scalp disease,
piles, etc. 1/6 & 3/6 box. Zam-Buk Med-
icinal Soap 1/- a tablet. All chemists.
GET A BOX TO DAY
hair
HERE'S
why-
ŵ
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
&CUL&ris CMEXJCAN)
Vkdnut Steam,
THE GREY"
Sole Australian,Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
1} unobtainable locally, posted
direct U/6), 6d. being postage.
ẁ
See them
Now or
Write for
Full Details
ẃ
Answering
w w
w
myself? I wish somebody would give me
a chance to find out.”
She made her way over the dewy grass
to the banksia, on whose leaning trunk she
used to sit with a book and watch for Lew’s j
boat going out. There were no lights in
the fishing-village now, but over on the
biggest sandbank some dark shapes were
moving about with lanterns, and little
golden blobs showed up from time to time
on the water. Was it Lew making up for
the time he had lost that day? If only he
had asked her to come out with him, how
she would have enjoyed hauling on the net!
Standing bare-legged with her skirts tucked
into her bloomers, as she sometimes used
to do of an afternoon, to the scandal of
Lew’s mother, who watched them from the
fence by the breakwater.
A vague depression was weighing Clem
down. Lew had seemed dull that day,
absorbed in his own thoughts, living deep
down in some current of life that was
oeyond her depth. She had lost contact
with him. When he was a helter-skelter
boy it was easy for her to imagine they
had everything in common, but now he
was less individual, more a part of the clan.
And they had always been strange to her,
those other Callaways, with their ragged
settlement that had grown up on the shores
of the Passage like a clump of tea-tree.
When she ventured near it she felt she
was intruding on foreign soil. There was
the strong atmosphere of an intense, self-
contained life down there that you could
feel in your very bones.
Yet one part of her had a hunger to be
drawn into it, swallowed up by it as Lew
was. Not merely to keep in touch with
him, either, but for its own sake. It seemed
a pretty good sort of life, after all—richer
than that of her own crowd, if she had a
crowd. While she was talking with Lew
she had a sense of her own problems being
flimsy and unreal, something like the
ailments her father diagnosed. Lew couldn’t
be expected to interest himself in them; he
was engrossed in the job of making a living
for the family, and as time went on that
would take up more and more of his
thoughts and energy. It was only by
sharing his work that she could achieve the
old intimacy with him again.
But what chance was there of that?
Lew wouldn’t be able to marry for years
and years, and, besides, he had never led
her to believe he wanted her that way.
“It’s never entered his head,” she told
herself. “He’d run a mile to get out of
my way if he thought it had entered mine.
As for that mother of his Oh, murder!”
She climbed up to a fork in the trunk
and sat with her legs beneath her, looking
with brooding, intense eyes at the moving
lights on the sandbank and the dark humps
of cottages on the water’s edge. What
was her own feeling for Lew, she was
wondering? Was it real enough to make
her throw over everything and share a
fisherman’s hut beside the Passage with
him, if he wanted her? Or was it merely
part of the spell the place laid upon her—
like the filmy she-oaks at dawn, the smell
of mullet-weed, the cry of the swans coming
up the Passage at dusk?
CHAPTER V.
Hughie’s Chance.
There was a cloud on Anna Callaway’s
face as she moved about the kitchen, giving
a stir now and then to the jam that was
simmering on the stove, and listening with
one ear to Hughie, who was slicing up the
melons he had brought over from Uncle
Tony’s. Things hadn’t been moving in
the way she had planned. For some days
she had been at cross-purposes with Lew,
who was letting the fishing slide, going off
early with his lunch and billy along the
beach on the pretext that there was nothing
to be done till the mullet came in. His
eyes always had a moody look when
he came back, and he fended her off when
she tried to talk of the shame it would be
to let Hughie go to work for old Kunkel.
She felt for the first time a core of hard-
ness in him she couldn’t break down.
“Hughie’s old enough to know what he
wants,” was all he would say. “It’s his
funeral.”
“His funeral?” she repeated. “You’ve
found the word right enough. A boy like
Hughie might as well climb into his coffin
right away as go off-siding for old Kunkel.”
She had placed high hopes on Hughie,
and had vowed he would never have to
work with his hands, but the dice seemed
loaded against her. This offer of Kunkel’s
had come just when she thought she had
won Lew over to the idea of sending Hughie
to the rural school at Eumerella. He would
have got a couple of years’ training there
that might have earned him into a job
with some engineering firm; but how could
he learn anything at the store? Kunkel had
had a dozen boys in the last few years,
carting things up from the boat and going
round for orders, but they usually drifted
off no better than they came. What angered
Anna most, though, was that she seemed to
hear Lew’s voice behind the pleas Hughie
made to be let work at the store. Lew
didn’t want Hughie to go away, and had
most likely put this idea into both his head
and Kunkel’s.
“If I suit Kunkel he’ll take me into the
store to serve behind the counter,” Hughie
was arguing. “He’s always grizzling about
the work being too much for him. And it’s
the nearest good job I could get to home.”
“Is that what Lew says?” asked his
mother drily.
“No, but Lew don’t mind. Tom Rahilly
will be here to give him a hand when the
mullet come in, and there’s always the
Wiegerts. Then if I’m only working half-
time I’ll be able to help him a bit with
the nets.”
“It’s not the fishing I’m troubling about,”
said Anna, turning away. “Lew’s always
managed to get along well enough. I wanted
you to be something different from a wood-
and-water joey, earning a few pounds here
and there from men like Kunkel, and falling
back on the nets when you Avere out of a
job. Surely to goodness, Hughie, you
wouldn’t be content with a life like the
Wiegerts’!”
There was a passion in her voice that
overwhelmed Hughie for a while. He sat
slicing the melons in silence; but a memory
of an encounter with his uncle made him
return to the attack.
“Uncle Tony’s been rubbing it into me
that I don’t earn my oats,” he said. “Says
he was making money by the time he was
twelve—bagging oysters and sending them
away.”
His mother’s eyes darkened.
“Uncle Tony talks a lot. It's about the
only thing he really does these days. If
he hadn’t started work so early he mightn’t
have been anxious to knock off so soon.”
“Well, he’s got all he wants,” said Hughie.
“Maybe. Some people don’t want much.
Either for themselves or their families.”
She relapsed into a defensive silence. She
was always tempted to say caustic things
when the name of Uncle Tony or his family
came up: a sense of the w T ay her own
ambitions clashed with theirs had gradually
been sharpening within her. And she was
inwardly convinced that they made jokes
among themselves about her efforts to give
the children an education. Neither Tony
nor Rachel had been sympathetic when she
talked of getting Fred apprenticed as an
engineer and Mamie embarked on a course
at the Eumerella rural school; they had
taken it all as a fad of hers. There was
usually a grin twitching the corners of
Tony’s loose-lipped mouth when he asked
about either of them, as if he saw some
hidden humor in the business. Worse
than that! He believed she was sacrificing
Lew for the rest of the family. As if Lew
couldn’t look after himself!
“Your Uncle Tony’s got his own way of
looking at things,” she said, brushing back
a strand of dark hair as she stirred the
jam. “He don’t care whether it’s Monday
or Tuesday. Chuck children into the water
as soon as they can walk and let them
learn to swim: that’s alw T ays been his way.
If he believes it’s worked well with his own
crowd, no one else does.”
She was thinking of the mess Tony and
Rachel had made in bringing up their
family. A nice model they were to anyone!
They had reared a brood as large as her
own, yet they would find it hard to say
what had happened to most of them, and
where they were living. The boys were
evidently settled somewhere now, but until
the last couple of years they used to appear
at intervals, shabby and down-at-heel, hang-
ing round the place fishing or chopping wood
till it was time to drift off in search of a
job again. The girls turned up less often,
but when they went away there was usually
a youngster left behind for the old people
to look after. And invariably there was
some difficulty about its name.
• The whole history of her relations with
Tony and Rachel passed through Anna
Callaway’s mind as she brooded on Hughie’s
defection. The two families lived almost
within a stone’s-throw of one another, and
when Bob had been alive they had formed
a compact little group, holding boats and
fishing-nets in common, and sharing the
proceeds of their work. There w r as an end
of that now, though. Tony had given up.
the fishing and bought a lumbering boat
of shallow draught, the Dugong, that
ran down to town fortnightly with fish and
fruit, and brought back Kunkel’s stores. A
grinning, easy-going old gargoyle of a man,
with no interest in money or the things
it could buy, he had built up a fairly com-
fortable life for himself. There was the
rambling, unpainted house with its garden
running down to the saltwater creek; there
was the excitement of the Dugong
coming in regularly; there was an occasional
snapper excursion out to sea. He sat . on
his verandah in the afternoons/carving ships
and sea-monsters for his grandchildren, his
wind-wrinkled eyes looking up the'Passage,
where he was bred, and his bare, sun-
chapped legs, that people said were covered
with barnacles, stretched out over the arms
of the chair in front of him. No wonder
his loose-lipped mouth made jokes about
other people’s worries! He had never had
any himself, and at sixtv-five he could still
spend a night in wet clothes on the sand-
bank or pull a heavy boat against the tide.
True, there w T as his family, but they had
chosen to strike out for themselves, and
that was an end of the matter. He had
never felt a twinge at their going, or lain
awake at night brooding on the future of
any one of them. Unless, perhaps, that of
Essie. She was the youngest, his pride and
favorite, and he might have counted on her
staying; but she had gone off to town one
week-end, and soon (though none too soon,
Anna believed) had married an Italian who
had been working as barman at the hotel.
“Uncle Tony’s talking about getting an
extra hand for his boat,” Hughie was begin-
ning. “He says there might be a chance for
me, looking after the engine later on. If
Uncle Tony”
A shadow darkened the doorway, and he
broke off.
“Hullo! Who’s taking my name in vain?”
said a cheerful husky voice.
(To be continued next week.)


ŵ
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office-
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwuila Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Monday to Friday,
A la Carte Dining and Supper
Service.
Minimum charge 7/6. Dancing till
I a.m. Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY LATE GALA NIGHT.
Special Table d’hote Dinner, 21/-
Special Supper from 10 o’clock,
12/6; or a la Carte, minimum, 12/6
Afternoon Tea Dansant—
Monday to Friday, 3.30 to 5.30, 2/6
Saturday, 4/-
’Phone M4l 31 for your reservation.
AS WE SAID BEFORE
This Page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in The Bulletin of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
A British society paper published a wail
about the failure of women’s clubs, and
wants to know why these institutions always
start with brilliant prospects, and then, in
a very few weeks, die a natural death. There
are a good many reasons, and they are
tolerably obvious. Men use their clubs to
drink and smoke in, but the clubwoman
can’t drink and smoke in comfort for fear
THE AUSTRALIAN ABROAD—IN PARIS.
AUSTBALUAN (wishing to air his French ): “Didong, garsong, donney moah un toss do
caffay, sivooplay."
WAITER (just imported from London, especially to wait on English visitors ): Scuse
me, sir, I don’t speak French.”
AUSTRALIAN: “Then, damn it, send someone who can!"
some other member will go out and blast her
character by informing on her. Men play
cards to a considerable extent in their clubs,
but the female card-player either cheats or
doesn’t pay up, and therefore the whist circle
goes to wreck. And, above all things, men
find ease, and woman can’t be at ease unless
she takes off her hat, and lets down her hair,
and loses all her hairpins, and takes her
dress right off, and loafs in her petticoat and
stays. This is the absolutely fatal point.
No woman can lie around comfortably when
her hat is held on by a big skewer driven
through her brains, and her hair is so tight
that it is lifting her right off her feet, and
her boots are so tight that they are dragging
her head off, and she can’t breathe by reason
of her dress. When a really successful
ladies’ club is established it must be a cast-
iron rule that each member shall hang up
her frock in the ante-room, and deposit her
hat and her boots in the rack, and leave her
hairpins and her skewer with the secretary.
A well-known Sydney insurance man the
other day visited an Eastern suburb to see a
friend, but was chagrined to find nobody at
home. As he stood at the gate pensively
reflecting, two smart Sydney detectives who
knew him very well bade him good after-
noon, and, after an interchange of civilities,
one of the d.’s, evidently under the impres-
sion that the insurance man was standing
in front of his own premises, remarked,
respecting some web-feet visible inside the
fence, “That’s a fine lot of ducks you’ve
got.” “Yes,” said the lounger, “they’re very
fine; but I’ve lots more than you can see
here. Perhaps you boys would like a couple
of pairs?” “Well, you’re very kind, I don’t
mind if I do,” said Detective 11. “Much
obliged,” added Dectective R. “Well,” said
the joker, “help yourselves. I’ve got to
run down the road to call for some ladies,
so I can’t wait. So long.” The day after
next the Sydney dailies each contained an
advertisement offering a reward for evidence
as to the person who stole four ducks, etc.
The following veracious yarn will illus-
trate the danger of neglecting the early
education of children. There lived on the
Upper Coomera a married couple known to
the settlers by the name of Hooley. One
season the flat on which they lived became
infested with bandicoots; the little pests
tore up Hooley’s garden stuff, and, to use
his own words, “played the very divil wid
him.” In an evil hour a friend advised
Hooley to get a gun and shoot some of his
enemies. He did. He got a gun—a dis-
carded regulation musket—with powder and
shot to match. Hooley didn’t know much
about guns, so one day he essayed to
“practish” with his musket. Having loaded
up carefully, he set his back hard against
a fence, pointed the musket at a gum-tree,
and pulled the trigger. Bang she went,
with a roar like a nine-pounder, but not
a scratch on the tree. “Not enough pow-
dher,” remarked Hooley, “I’ll thry a little
more,” and ho
emptied about half
a teacupful of dia-
mond-grain down
the neck of his
artillery. Bang
again. Hooley stag-
gered, recovered
himself and his
eye again sought
“ruin and devasta-
tion” on the bark
of the tree. Again
not a scratch.
“G i m m e the
powdher again,
Biddy!” he yelled,
and he seized the
flask and dosed the
much enduring
musket again;
Heaven knows
what quantity he
put in. There was
a terrific report
and a yell as the
musket kicked Hoo-
ley on the jaw, and
knocked him over
the fence, and
climbed over after
him and kicked him
on the other jaw,
and then jumped
on him and hit him
below the belt;
then seeking more
worlds to conquer
it tore up three
rods of split fence,
and chased Biddy
11 times around
the milking yard,
after which it
swam the river and
rushed into the
office of an elec-
tioneering J.P. and
broke up 15 dead
marines, upset the
nailcan and gin-
ca s e comprising
the office furniture,
tore the big X,com-
prising the J.P.’s
official signature on
some important documents, and swallowed
the documents in question, and finally burst,
filling the air with gun, and devastated J.P.,
and other ruins. Hooley is buried on the
bank of the river. His sad end is a solemn
warning to parents and guardians. If in
his neglected youth he had been taught to
shoot landlords, he would have known how to
load a gun properly, and would not have
expended himself in a futile attempt to shoot
a gum-tree without putting some shot in his
gun along with the powder.
In baby-farming, it’s been found
To make the business pay,
You plant the babies in the ground
And pluck their parents gay.
A woman at Gullen (N.S.W.) had a little
girl born to her. This woman was a patron
of shilling-shockers, and the latest book she
read had a heroine called Narilga. The
woman of Gullen instantly wanted a Narilga
in her family, so she took the baby to a
priest to have it christened. When she
was asked what the child was to be named
she said “Neuralgia,” and Neuralgia she is,
for, though the holy father was an expert
in Latin, the divil a bit of Greek did he
know!
In a little Maori village near Coromandel
(M.L.) stands a roofless church, with a
fallen pulpit and a shrub growing out of
the baptismal font. There is a history
attached to this ruined edifice. Many years
ago it was built by a converted chief, and
the inhabitants, in an outburst of religious
fervor, took up a subscription of £l5, and
sent a certain native, named Te Wheoro, to
Auckland to buy for the preacher’s use the
finest big Bible he could find. But the best
Bible in the city cost only £6, so Wheoro, being
a man of great intelligence, invested the other
£9 in a huge cask of rum. The undressed
elders of the flock approved of his purchase,
and decided that, with a view to the spread-
ing of the Terewth, the cask should stand in
the vestry with a pannikin attached, and
every person who attended service should have
a drink as he went in and another when
coming out. Also, it was resolved that there
should be three services every Sunday, and
that any member showing signs of intoxi-
cation should be fined 10s., the same to be
spent in more rum. After that for three
years the church prospered exceedingly, and
the cask kept full. But one Sunday the
chiefs daughter took eight drinks of rum in
close succession, and being promptly fined
she told the elders to go to perdition. Then
she smashed the pulpit and the desk, tore the
big Bible to rags, took seven more drinks,
ran amok in the church, staved in the cask,
HE HADN’T IT.
PATIENT (with terrified air ): “ Doctor, does this ’ere influenzee
start with a dry corf and sneezin’?"
DOCIOR (on for a scare ): “Fes, certainly.”
Patient: “And ’eadache, en’ noises in the ears, an’ funny
thoughts, an’ weariness?”
DOCTOR: “Yes, those are all sure symptoms — you’ve evidently
caught it badly.”
PARIENT : “No, but I guess my blawsted offside poler ’as it awful
bad.”
and went away and relapsed into heathenism.
The congregation fell off after that, and
presently broke up altogether. Then hogs got
into the sacred edifice, and the roof was
blown off by a winter gale, and the great
religious movement was altogether forgotten.
The “Argus” has a hundred eyes—with a
cataract in each.
The real reason why women are so much
more devout than men is that a woman
looks graceful in a devotional attitude and
a man doesn’t. A well-dressed woman, if
she knows how to adjust her flowing skirts,
is a pretty object when she is kneeling down,
but a man only looks ridiculous. His legs
stick out in an absurd manner, and he shows
the soles of his boots, and the tail of his
coat looks misplaced, somehow. The only
way to put the two sexes on an equality
is to establish the fashion of getting into a
bath to pray.
I HAVEN’T FOUND HIM YET.
Thirty-one, and still unmarried!
I am almost “on the shelf,”
Though, of course, I wouldn’t own it
To a soul except myself:
And I’ve had my share of chances —
Just how many I forget—
But I wanted an idqal
And I haven’t found him yet.
I was nearly wedding Charlie,
Who was really very nice,
But I found out that he gambled,
Played at cards, and shook the dice:
Vin would not renounce his liquor,
Nor would Phil his cigarette—
If there is a man who’d do so,
Well, I haven’t found him yet!
Where’s the man who for a woman
Will forsake his fav’rite pub,
Will give up his dogs and horses,
And forswear the sporting club?
Such a paragon there may be,
But amongst the men I’ve met
He has managed self-effacement,
And I haven’t found him yet.
I suppose ’twas rather foolish
To expect a pattern man ;
Anyhow, I’ve failed to find one,
Now I’ll gladly change my plan—
Take the very next that asks me,
Though he smoke and drink and bet;
Then, perhaps, I’ll get a husband,
Though I haven’t found him yet.
A.V. GREENWOOD.
RESTING.
Against the old verandah post
Outside the pub we saw him leaning;
He might have been a seedy ghost
So full his glance of solemn meaning.
With hands in empty pockets stuck,
And pipe between his teeth so yellow,
He looked “the actor out of luck” —-
Which, by the w T ay, he was, poor fellow!
He leaned and dreamed of bettei days
When cares were few and liquors many.
Of royal parts he’d filled in plays—
And now he couldn’t raise a penny !
He dreamed of how much bed and board
One might obtain whilst payment shirking,
So high his mounting fancy soared
He couldn’t see the need of working.
“Excuse us, but” —we, blushing, said —
“We know —er —of a porter’s billet.”
He rolled his eye and shook his head:
“Then get some blanky blank to fill it.”
Surprised to find him thus annoyed,
Our deep regret we were protesting;
Quoth he, “I’m not an unemployed , —
Confound you, I’m an actor resting .”
VICTORIA."
E.F.


•^Srx
w
V
\
r*
: A
V
v
V\M\^
IN THE DAYS OF COBB & CO.
Riding on a Cobb’s Coach, with a
driver of the period—a band of six
performers in the costumes of a
century ago. See them! Hear
them!
THE HOME OF THE PIONEERS.
Here is a typical bark bungalow, with
its trailing grape-vines. A bit of
Australia, with wallabies and abori-
ginals complete.
SEE THE GRAPE-PICKERS AT
WORK.
Charming girls in costume, actually
picking bunches from a vine, and
filling an enormous basket with half
a ton of beautiful grapes.
WINE-MAKING 100 YEARS AGO.
See the old-fashioned wine crusher of
a century ago. Compare it with the
modem methods of wine-making.
HOW WINE IS MADE.
A working demonstration of the
manufacture of Lindeman’s Sparkling
Wines. Another of cider and still
wines.
LINDEMAN’S INVALID AND
MACQUARIE BRANDIES.
You will see the old original brandy
pot-still from Kirkton Vineyards.
SECONDARY INDUSTRIES
DEPENDENT ON WINE TRADE.
See the interesting displays of bottles!
See the straw envelopes being made!
Marvel at the rapidity with which
cases may be built! See the label-
printing exhibit, machinery, etc.
And many other interesting tableaux.
AT ROYAL SYDNEY SHOW
1930 LINDEMAN’S WINES
ENJOYED A HUGE SUCCESS!
AGAINST PICKED WINES
OF AUSTRALIA. 27 FIRST
PRIZES. 4 CHAMPION GOLD
MEDALS OUT OF POSSIBLE
5. AWARDED THE PRIZE
FOR MOST SUCCESSFUL
EXHIBITOR.
Be in town Thursday, 24th,
for the Spectacular Pageant
which will commemorate the
Centenary of Australian Wine
Pageants of the pioneers. Gay costumes of a century ago. Pretty girls in picturesque
settings. Grapes with the bloom on. Wine flowing and sparkling. Mirth and music.
Labor and industry. All the associations —historic, romantic, economic and indus-
trial—of the wine industry; one of the oldest in the Commonwealth—shown in
impressive tableaux.
Exactly one hundred years ago the first grape-vines were planted in the Kirkton
Vineyards, the property of Lindeman, Limited, on the Hunter River—thus establish-
ing a great national industry, an historic occasion commemorated by the most
impressive procession of its kind which has ever been witnessed in Sydney.
See this display. Bring the family to town for the occasion. Every feature of this
magnificent spectacle is full of interest for all.
Through the streets of Sydney
THURSDAY, 24th at 1 p.m.
The route of the Kirkton Centenary Procession will be: Leave Lindeman’s offices
and cellars in Queen Victoria Buildings at 1 p.m., proceeding along George, Bridge,
Macquarie, Hunter, Elizabeth and Park streets, then up William Street, across
Darlinghurst to Oxford Street, thence Wentworth Avenue to Campbell Street,
down George Street and back to Town Hall.
Qr ranged btj
LIN DEMAN LTD.
to celebrate the Kirkton Centenary
“The best remedy I have ever used for banishing
Influenza and Coughs is HEENZO,”
WRITES MR. RAYMOND ELLIS, THE EMINENT ENGLISH OPERATIC BARITONE.
The taking of HEENZO is the quickest and surest method of beating the
INFLUENZA and at the same time soothing sore throats, easing the
chest, and eliminating all signs of
w
COUGHS & COLDS
SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT OF INFLUENZA.
SYMPTOMS OF ’FLU. —You’re getting influenza if your head aches, your eyes run and redden, your throat is sore, and your
back or limbs pain you.
GO STRAIGHT TO BED. Take half a teaspoonful of concentrated Heenzo (straight from the original bottle) in half a
wineglass of hot water every four hours. To ease the coughing, use Heenzo in its made-up form, as per directions with the
bottle. KEEP THE BOWELS OPEN, and DON’T leave bed until 24 hours after the temperature has abated.
There are two ways of using Heenzo: Firstly, in the way just described, for influenza. _ For the treatment of coughs, colds,
croup and bronchitis you will find Heenzo just as efficacious if made up into a family cough syrup. A 2/- bottle of
concentrated Heenzo, when added to sweetened water (as per easy directions on the bottle), makes a family supply equal
in quantity and superior in quality to eight ordinary-sized bottles of any ready-made cough mixture that would cost up to £l.
We have received over 12,000 letters from satisfied
users of Heenzo, who tell us that they have found
nothing better for easing the cough, soothing the
chest, clearing phlegm and banishing chest and
throat ailments. Heenzo does not contain any
poison or dangerous drugs; therefore it is equally
good for young and old.
f


A GOOD LEAD!
Existing members of the
A.M.P. SOCIETY
effected ADDITIONAL ASSURANCES ON
THEIR LIVES in the year 1929
for
£5,810,000.
All Surplus divided ANNUALLY amongst the participating
members.
ASSETS - - £78,000,000
ENQUIRIES JNVITEL.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
F. T. BRIDGES,
Acting General Manager.
There are seven
reasons why
I
Guinness
IS GOOD FOR YOU
No. 1
FOR
STRENGTH
Guinness builds
strong muscles
for sport —strong
nerves for' those
under physical
strain. Famous
doctors say that
ŵ
The Gateway.
DYMPNA CUSACK TULLS HOW TUB SPIRIT OF PETER CAME BACK
OK ANZAC DAY.
JOHN PHILLIPS huddled a little closer
to the great involuted trunk of the
Moreton Bay fig beneath which he was
sheltered. The Domain was full of slinking
shapes, quivering shadows —shadows that
danced and leapt grotesquely in the light
of the swaying arc-lamps; shadows that
were suddenly blotted out when the ghostly
wfaith of a rain squall crept over the harbor,
enwrapping everything with a misty vague-
ness and shrouding the lights in a pale,
luminous halo.
Pulling the collar of his coat a little higher
John cursed the thin, driving rain. Every
gust of wind set the leaves stirring. Like
castanets, he thought; or a Dance Macabre
of the Leaves: thousands of leaves rattling,
dancing; tiny skeletons, in an infernal, ghoul-
ish symphony, its rhythm punctuated by the
soft plop of a falling fig on the sodden
grass, or the vague, hurried swoop of a
bat. Queer how familiar things took on a
sinister aspect in the night; slinking shapes
assumed a jungle-like, predatory significance,
though he knew well that they were nothing
but poor devils like himself, seeking a bit
of shelter.
In the daylight, shadows were warm, purp-
lish mysteries ; retreats permeated with a soft
glimmering light that the leaves sought in
vain to exclude, dappled with sun flakes like
pools of wine—the sparkling yellow wine
one bought in Marseilles for a few cents.
The mist seemed to be creeping into his
very lungs ; thousands of tiny seeking fingers ;
fingers cold as ice, tickling his throat, tear-
ing his scarred lungs with devilish malice.
Under his shoulder-blade was the old, stab-
bing pain: red-hot knives searing, twisting.
Damn the rain!
Nothing very solid about a “Herald” when
it was considered as a blanket, he reflected.
Irony in the thought that this journalistic
pillar of the established order should descend
to warming the outcasts of the system it
upheld ! Ah, well
Imperial Ciesar, dead and turned to clay,
Might stop a hole to keep the wind away.
Not bad to be able to quote Shakspeare in
the Domain. Old Bill was always a demo-
crat !
Queer, too, the last time he had heard that
quoted. Young Peter Marks —that Turkish
sniper got him a few minutes later, just
after dawn. Young Pete... .always laugh-
ing, with that insatiable zest in living; for
whom being alive had always seemed a mar-
vellous adventure. Pete naked, bronzed,
plunging into the rock-pool at Wattamalla;
Pete quivering, eager in that black, eager
hour when they waited the order to embark
for the landing. And Pete doubled up in the
trench, with a queer, twisted grin on his
face, grey and drawn against the mass of
red hair! Dawn breaking over the scarred,
barren hills in a terrible poignant splash of
gold; the sea slipping out of the mists,
incredibly blu.e and still!
He could never bear to watch the dawn
since then. There are some things a man
needs to forget. Nearly fifteen years ago!
Good God! Fifteen years to-morrow since
they’d landed ! He’d forgotten till someone
of his fellow-dossers had told him that there
was a free dinner for all unemployed Anzacs
at the Town Hall to-morrow. It was better
to think of Pete going out cleanly like that
than to think of him welcoming the anni-
versary of their Great Adventure because it
would provide him with a free meal, par-
ticularly when one had not touched food for
two days.
A stabbing pain in his shoulder held him
for a few moments; when it passed, his
cougb racked till it seemed that his chest
must burst with the strain. In the sickening
nausea that followed he felt faint, dizzy;
and there was a sticky, sweet warmth in his
mouth.
A gust of anger shook him, a sense of the
terrible futility of life, the bitter mockery.
Fifteen years ago! The arrogant, passion-
ate ecstasy of being alive; the ineradicable
sense of Destiny leading them inexorably
to some splendid realisation. The zest, the
almost savage intensity, of living; the vibrant
pulsing of adventure; dreams, secret, wild,
untamed; dreams but vaguely formulated
from nebulous, intense hopes; inchoate, yet
subtly stirring and significant as the form-
less leaf-shadows quivering on the sodden
grass.
Passion _ and laughter, arrogant hopes,
unrealised dreams —all the splendid pageantry
of youth tarnished. The vigorous spate
of life dwindled to this: pain, humiliation,
despair, and a growing darkness in which
personal identity seemed to be dissolving.
The wind-stirred silence quivered; the
singing chorus of the leaves became pregnant
with meaning. Whispering; hushed laugh-
ter ; calling voices—voices strangely familiar,
far-off, yet growing every moment louder:
the air was vibrant with restless expectancy.
The mist had lifted and, of a sudden, John
realised that the heavy shadows were
crowded with hurrying figures. There was
a strange luminosity in the air, as though
dawn were not far off; yet the chime of the
G.P.O. clock as it struck two had just
sounded. Rustling, whispering, a great stir-
ring among the trees! What could it mean?
Whence came these hurrying figures in
stained khaki? Where were they bound,
eager, searching eyes watching each passing
face, pausing often to greet someone of the
long line! There was an air of uncertainty
about some of them as though they found
themselves in an unfamiliar spot; others
went swiftly over the grass, hastening with
soundless strides to an unperceived goal.
Impelled by some irresistible force, John
stepped from his shelter. It seemed that
the shadowy depths of the great trees quiv-
ered with a light, crescive and prophetic as
that of the early dawn. In its warmth he
felt strangely well: the stabbing pain had
gone, and tie stepped buoyantly over the
lawns to a group that had halted for a
moment—all old 13ths, judging by their
colors. Queer, after all these years, what
a responsive thrill the two blues stirred in
a man! Perhaps there was a Midnight
Parade, some Commemoration Ceremony
news of which had not penetrated to the out-
cast democracy of the Domain.
As he breasted the old 13th group they
turned with one accord. A sense of elation,
of fellowship, flooded his heart. Here was
the true spirit! Men he had not seen for
years welcoming him, greeting him. No one
there lie had seen of late; some he had not
met since they left the troopship; others
since that bitter, weary retreat from Galli-
poli. Men whose faces were familiar but
whose names he had forgotten ; clad in theii
stained, mud-caked khaki, there were no
invidious distinctions of dress; there were
no questioning glances at his threadbare,
patched clothes, such as he had learned to
expect from more successful men.
“Old Johnno, by Jove!”
The welcoming words brought a lump to
his throat; he had thought that the fellow-
ship built up in those perilous, wild and
infinitely precious days had gone for ever.
“In civvies, too! Been in hospital?”
He nodded, too excited to speak, and a
laughing “Lucky beggar!” in a voice terribly
familiar made him turn with his heart sud-
denly leaping. For a moment the hurrying,
luminous scene danced before him, and he
felt a sickening tightening of his throat. It
was impossible, yet so fantastically real that
every function of his body seemed paralysed.
Such things could not be, some remnant of
rationality passionately denied within his
stupefied brain.
And yet the fact was so obvious that
denial, unbelief, died before it. Tom O’Hallo-
ran! There could not be another raw-boned
Cornstalk vritli such a merry smile —a smile
that not even the red scar from temple to
chin could utterly mar. There was no man
alive who could say “Johnnie lad!” with just
that trace of brogue.
No man alive? The thought struck him
with a sense of mockery. He wanted to
shout hysterically in frantic negation of the
fact. For he had last seen Tom O’Halloran.
with half his head blown away, dead upon
the wind-swept, scarred hills of Gallipoli!
Even the grip of gnarled hands, the com-
forting pressure of arms across his shoulders,
the chorus of “Glad to see you, old chap!
It’s great to have you with us!” could not
dispel the sense of sickening incomprehen-
sion. Within him something was shouting,
with a last attempt to clutch reality: “But
you’re dead, Tom ! My God, you’re dead !”
He gazed wildly around at the others.
Did they see nothing? Was he alone in
that ghastly knowledge? Their faces were
quiet, unquestioning. Perhaps he was wrong.
The miracles of modern surgery—anything
was possible!
They swept in hurrying, eager crowds,
these war-stained men—scarcely a day older
than when they had parted, he realised with
a pang, while his hair was nearly white.
There was a buoyant eagerness in this surg-
ing spate, a sense of passionate vitality.
Even he was infected with it. In the thrill
of this meeting it seemed that he had cast
off the shell of his racked, tortured body
and had been born anew.
As they passed over the grass and crossed
the winding paths, he saw that the road
that led from the city, past the gardens, was
seething with hurrying uniformed figures.
The stunted, grotesque line of lopped trees
was eerily remote in the misty light, stretch-
ing in a narrowing vista to Macquarie-street.
As far as he could see the hurrying proces-
sion came; with a sudden chill he realised
that their heavy, mud-caked boots moved
soundlessly over the pavements.
“Why are they in such a hurry?” he asked
a man beside him, whose tunic was stained
from shoulder to waist with a dull, brown-
ish patch.
“They are looking for friends, revisiting
old places,” he answered, never slackening
the long, regular stride. “There is so much
to do, so much to see, and so little time!”
“But there is all to-morrow.” John began,
and stopped as his companion turned pity-
ing eyes upon him.
“For us there is no to-morrow.”
“No to-morrow!” The words rang in his
ears. What did he mean?
And suddenly, as though a dazzling light
had shone into his purblind soul, he knew.
It was no surgical miracle that brought Tom
O’Halloran from the solitary hills of Gal-
lipoli to walk beside him with swinging,
tireless step. Now he knew the meaning of
those brown stains upon the tattered tunics,
of the hurrying, soundless footsteps.
Whither were they bound, these eager
ghosts?
Without realising where they had been
going, he found himself out upon the bay’s
edge. The black water gleamed where the
reflection of a mast-head light fell and the
air quivered with the soft, swirling lap of
the rising tide.
Woolloomooloo Bay! Once they had
marched along these streets on a warm spring
night, when the air was filled with the myriad
scents floating from the Gardens and such
another gibbous moon floated over the undu-
lating headlands of the harbor. But then
the streets had resounded with the tramp,
tramp of heavy boots, their hearts were
warm with high hopes, heavy with the sorrow
of recent partings—curious blending of hap-
piness and sadness; before them the allure
of the unknown.
And now for them there was no to-
morrow !
All around him was the surging, eager
crowd; anxious queries for friends who had
not been found : men whom he had seen shot
before his eyes gripped his hand in passing.
Already the numbed horror of realisation was
giving way to a wild, exultant sense of free-
dom. They were not lost, these friends who
had passed over; they had come back; nor
had they forgotten.
But had they come back? Perhaps. A
fantastic thought gathered strength in his
mind. Where was the frail, tortured body
that had lain, racked by pain, in the chilly
darkness of the Domain ? Stupendous
thought— might it not be that lie had none
to them?
(Continued on next page.)


'■Every picture
Veils a Story"
ẁ
Mrs. A. Foreman, 45 Rose Street, Darlington, Sydney,
says: “For years my husband followed the occupation of a
miner. Having to work in damp places and in cramped
positions seriously affected his kidneys, and he suffered a lot
from backache and other ailments in consequence. His back
was often very painful, and it was as much as he could do
to get about. The pain centred just above the kidneys,
and he was conscious of it even at the best of times.
To make matters worse the kidney secretions were dis-
ordered, being thick and cloudy and difficult to pass. One
day Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were brought under his
notice as a reliable kidney medicine, so he bought a bottle
to try them. They acted splendidly, a course of the Pills
making a perfect cure. He is very grateful to Doan’s Pills
for the good they did him and always keeps a bottle by
him in case he should have a return of his old complaint ”
Four , years later Mrs. Foreman says: “My husband is still
well, and has only Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills to -thank
for his freedom from kidney trouble.” .
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS are sold by all chemists and stores.
Foster McClellan Co., Proprietors, 15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
AN'S
Backache Kidney Pills.
FOR PILES, ECZEMA AND ANY
IRRITATION OF THE SKIN USE
DOAN’S OINTMENT.
SYDNEY PEOPLE TESTIFY.
A WOMAN’S WORD.
Mrs. M. Brown, Toronto, Lyons Road, Five
Dock, Sydney, says: “Three years ago I used
Doan’s Ointment for a bad attack of Piles,
and I am pleased to tell you it completely
cured me. Previous to trying this ointment
I used all kinds of remedies, but they gave
me little or no relief. I was suffering terribly
when I first applied Doan’s Ointment, and
had little hope of it doing me any good,
but its soothing and healing effects were
noticeable almost at once, and by the time
I had used one pot I- was cured, the Piles
having completely disappeared. I am a
great believer in - Doan’s Ointment, and con-
sider it the best Pile remedy known. It
cured me after other remedies had failed.”
Eight years later. Mrs. Brown says: “I
have had no return of my old complaint since
Doan’s Ointment cured me about eleven years
ago.”
A MAN’S WORD.
Mr. Isaac Swales, 89 Fitzroy Street, Moore
Park, Sydney, says: “I used remedy after
remedy trying to get a cure for itching
piles, but nothing did me any good until I
applied Doan’s Ointment. This wonderful
ointment cured me in a very short time,
and I have been free from the torture of this
complaint ever since. Only those who are
tortured with piles know what the irritation
is like, but, after my experience with Doan’s
Ointment, I am sure no one need suffer with
piles. I wish I had known about this remedy
years before; it would have saved me a
lot of trouble.”.
Fourteen years later Mrs. Swales says:
“My husband has had no < return of piles
since Doan’s Ointment cured him fourteen
years ago.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES.
Peter! The name leapt like a flame in his
quickening consciousness, and the last linger-
ing traces of mortality seemed to cast off.
Each moment came an increasing clearness
of vision. Somewhere in that restless, intent
crowd was Peter!
He plucked at O’Halloran’s arm; and
“Pete?” he found courage to ask.
“O’course - You'll find him at the Gates:
he’s been waiting for you. .
Waiting for him! There was a tightening
of his throat. All those years and I ete was
still waiting. .
“Where are we going?” he asked breath-
lessly. _
For answer Tom pointed to the east, where
dawn was already stirring with a grey light
behind the broken cliff-line. _
“Can’t we stay?” A sudden sense of panic
gripped him. To go out into the Unknown
with these men Avho seemed so sure! <
“We come hack only once in the year,”
the slow reply came. “Only once.”
“But why?”
“To finish our dreams. There was so much
undone.” > _ .
“There are—are friends, to visit., too,”
said a boy walking beside him—a boy whose
pink cheeks were covered in soft yellow down,
He hesitated before the word “friends,” and
blushing furiously strode away.
O’Halloran smiled tenderly: “He was only
seventeen when he came over. And there
was a girl.” . _ _
“Good heavens.! And is she still faith-
ful?” John exclaimed incredulously. .
“She has three children! Fat and stolid
like their father. But the lad keeps his
dreams. All apple-blossom and blue eyes, and
long, long thoughts. Better so.”
He pointed to another tall, lanky figure
whose uniform was too large for the im-
mature shoulders
“Poor Bill! He’d howl for disappoint-
ment if he didn’t feel that it was unbecoming
at eighteen!”
“More... .friends?” John asked tenta-
tively.
“On, no. He’s like that every year. Goes
on hoping and hoping they’ll extend the
cricket season so that he can see his old
school play again. He was captain of the
First Eleven when he joined up. But it’s
always over when we come.”
“And the .dreams?'’ John began. _ His
heart was quivering with a sense of futility—
of frustration.
Tom shrugged his shoulders. “They are
never finished. Had we been older there
might have been sons.”
“And the others? The friends?”
“Mostly they have forgotten!”
O God! Unfinished dreams! Friends
who have forgotten ! The mockery, the bit-
terness, the inevitability of it all!
The great Gates through which they had
passed so many years before loomed before
them, etched with sombre definition against
a piling sky. Behind them the Cross dipped
low above the huddled darkness of Darling-
hurst. There was crisp stirring in the air
like the first restless shiver of the dawn.
From beside the Gates a figure suddenly
rushed to him. Peter! Hair tumbled, eyes
shining, as John had often seen him as he
came from the surf! Peter, with undying
youth in him splendid as it had ever been,
the sense of passionate adventure undimmed!
The bitterness and the struggle of the past
years were swept away. Once more the tor-
rents of youth made music in John’s soul. On
such a star-drenclied night they had gone
out in shadowy grey ships, following adven-
ture, some elusive ideal like a sinking star.
The floods of life had gone over; they had
lost for ever the quivering eagerness of grow-
ing things, the teeming earth, the ceaseless
singing of the sea; but here at the end of
living he had found youth once more, with
its hunger, its divine unrest. Once more there
was the calling of wild,' sweet music in his
ears and a stirring in his heart like the proud
dipping of some tall ship valiantly breasting
the waves. Once more there was a vivid
consciousness of some dark, troubled beauty
luring men beyond the gateways of narrow,
human endeavor, to a half-revealed dream
world, fraught with the sweetness and the
mystery a man could not realise because
of his mortality.
There was no need for greeting. With
a simple “I’ve been waiting for you,
Johnno!” they went out through the Gate-
way under a sky powdered with faint stars
and tremulous with the white dawn-wind.
Two in a Night.
Black the bitter night and wild
(Mary, Mother, save thy child!).
Old and withered, mumblingly
Bertha tells her rosary,
Crouching huddled by the fire.
High the raving wind and higher
Shrieking in demoniac glee
Seems the hosts of Hell set free;
.As ’twere blood the rain is dripping
On the roof and softly slipping
Down the tiling, slow to spread
Like a blood stain wide and red.
Smilingly he lay and fair
As I stabbed him swiftly there.
Keen and bright and strong the knife,
Exultantly it drank his life,
And like rain the blood fell dripping
From the reeking blade and slipping,
Dabbling my white feet with red.
Smiling still he lay there dead,
Blue eyes wide in ghastly stare.
I stooped and kissed his waving hair
(Blending crimson with its gold)
And the false lips, stiff and cold.
Beyond the firelight’s flickering glow
Strangely shadows come and go,
Fearful shapes that fill the g100m....
Lies he still within that room
With a smile upon his face?
(Mary, Mother, send us grace!)
Crouching huddled by the fire,
Sexless, empty of desire,
Stranger to the pain that moves
The heart to rend the thing it loves,
Old and withered, mumblingly
Bertha tells her rosary.
N.s.w.
CLARE THOMPSON.
The Swans.
Across the rosy-colored summer eve,
Above the range the dark triangle climbs,
The swans that down the lanes of Heaven
leave
A wake of wandering chimes.
Along the haze that hides the mountain
stairways,
Among the very evening stars, and all
The fading crimsons of the cloudy airways,
I hear the leader call.
The fires of sunset leap to one last flame
And vanish, and the quickening shadows
come.
Black swans! There is magic in the very
name
That calls my lost heart home.
The psalmist prayed the pinions of a dove;
But I would wish the black swans’ wings,
at whiles
To seek the autumn loveliness I love
Down the Queensland miles;
Where now the old lagoon with silver runs,
And now the yellow shafts of sunlight
break
To jewels, splintering to a thousand suns
Above the quiet lake;
The sunlight pouring drifts of filtered gold
Across the ridge, along the far hills’ brow,
After the rains, where the blue mists enfold
The league of evening now.
I see the paddocks breaking into green,
I hear the magpies carol from the hill,
Where camphor-laurels and oleanders lean
By one old homestead still.
And when the swift dark comes, and wrapped
in hush
The gullies lie, and all the world’s a-dream,
A beacon falls across the glimmering bush,
I see the candles gleam.
* * * *
The cold dews gather; through the west’s
gold bats
The sAvans are flying, somewhere out of
■ sight.
If I could only travel with the stars
The way they went to-night!
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.
Nocturne.
By dusk enveiled, a bride-elect,
The warm lake palpitates;
A tidal sea, her lover chafes
Impatient at her gates ;
And as he pours his passioned flood
Across the yielding bars,
Upon an altar tall is lit
The tapers of the stars.
An oval moon glides slowly o’er
The quiet hills of Howe—
A sorceress with ancient art
She touches leaf and bough
With silver magic and transforms
All things with adept hand,
Bewitching forest, range and shore,
To dreaming fairyland.
W hile—minstrels called to mystic rites—
Black swans flute to and fro;
Wild whimprels on the salty sand
Pipe plaintively and low,
A®d haunting from dim flats afar
Where sedge grows darkly green,
In long lament their eerie grief
The wailing curlews keen.
But when the moon s high spell is wrought,
And dappled shadows lie
In deep, untrodden bushland glades,
No more these mourners cry
Then chuckling by his homely mate
A kookaburra bright
Remembers in a waking dream
His joke pre-Adamite!
His mirth untimely gives a world
Nocturnal to unease;
The nervous wombat grunts alarm
The ringtails in their trees,
With ears alert, their wooings pause,
And seared phalangers gain
The shelter of a fur-lined nest
Till silence falls again.
Now to forbidden tryst with Jill,
The settler’s saucy maid,
Rides Jack Macanri from Seven-Mile
Of magic nought afraid.
His stirrups glimmer as he goes,
And now and then the bright
Steel buckles of his bridle glint
With aye a wanton light.
Be “ u s e d all Nature by that pale
Old sorceress that now
Her mischief weaves with practised hands
Above the hills of Howe;
The warnings of those minstrels sad
What doth she heed or .care
Who seeks the tea-tree shadows with
A red rose in her hair?
She sings within her heart a song
That sky-witch knew of eld,
Ere Sheba fell to Solomon
Or Boaz Ruth beheld.
He whistles softly as he treads
The path that leads to bliss
And, oh! I would that I were young
On such a night as this!
VICTORIA.
E.J.BRADY
Land Song.
I am glad ’twas not the sea
Took my love away from me.
Iron rail and paven track
Turn at last to point him back.
Though his heart be turned away
From my heart for aye. and aye,
I have this for my content—
I can watch the road he went.
But the sea is limitless,
Curving to each new caress.
Never heart can follow down
Where the sea-roads find the town •
Never thought can follow past
Where sea-heart has lingered last
1 hough the waves break with a kiss
At my feet I’m glad of this
I am glad ’twas not the sea
Took my love away from me.
W.A.
ETHEL DAVIES.


w
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock —wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
Jf.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WJ
III’ < ** „
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House/’ 485 Bourse Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents^—Messrs. ELDEEj SMITH & CO., Ijli>., Adelaide, S.A.
FOR 84 YEARS QUEENSLAND’S LEADING DAILY NEWSPAPER
The
BRISBANE
COURIER
The -largest and most widely spread
Home-delivered morning newspaper in
Brisbane and Queensland. For 84
years the “Courier” has been the most
outstanding advertising medium of
Queensland, and still enjoys the
supreme confidence of all local and
national advertisers.
220,571 inches
The “Courier” during 1929 exceeded
its morning contemporary’s total adver-
tising space by 220,571 inches.
Published by
THE BRISBANE NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
COURIER BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
N.S.W. Rep.: Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“THE AGE”
Established 185Jf*
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advex-tise you do not consider the
money involved as a speculation. You treat
this expenditure as an investment and expect
a reasonable return on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in the
affairs and development of Victoria. Its
present powerful position has been gained by
its literary worth, which appeals to an intelli-
gent public, and by its accurate and complete
news service. These factors, haying a direct
bearing on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser looking
for the best INVESTMENT for his advertising
expenditure.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation,
123,533.
Kates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation's News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
Che Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements .
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-state agencies of
Messrs. Cordon & Gotch, price 1 \d.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
THE
Illustrated Tasmanian
Mail
Published Wednesday. Price 6d.
A Bright, Interesting Weekly, con-
ducted on the most up-to-date lines,
and illustrated throughout.
It is an established favorite with
townsfolk and country folk also in
all parts of Tasmania, and its
effectiveness as an advertising
medium is receiving ever-increasing
recognition.
It is undoubtedly
TASMANIA’S LEADING
WEEKLY
A Rate Book, giving full particulars
of the Advertising Rates charged , will
he forwarded on application.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
80 Carfington Street,, Wynyard Square.
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN’*
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
When aMid not
well with diaeotion
ioke
fiftduun*
Pirn
Worth a
Guinea
a Box.
o *-*
PU-LA j
f on Ic f. it -°
*iV‘* *m V tl*S£
>•(*2
❖
Full information,
‘‘The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same day of publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from:
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Patterson Street, •
Launceston.
Mr, M. S. Allan,
426 National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
726 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper.
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6,3, months from
for which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas-—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
ri#
0°
fWr *
ev
„ S®>«'
>0
**<> (S® ...
}S ..••■■' ..•••■"
# s - ..••• ..<«&■s#*
' ~•* .•• g*VjJ?**


The WARATAH FENCE
“HINGED JOINT”
SOLVES SETTLERS’ PROBLEMS.
IT IS
FIRE PROOF, RUST PROOF, WHITE-ANT PROOF,
CATTLE PROOF, SHEEP PROOF, PIG PROOF
ERECTION COSTS ARE LOW—MAINTENANCE COSTS ARE NIL.
MADE IN THREE TYPES, VIZ.:
SPECIAL HEAVY.
Medium-temper Steel Wire.
Heavily Galvanised.
"* ’ Carbon !
iel. Light, Cheap and S
Heavily Galvanised.
Medium-temper Steel.
Heavily Galvanised.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BY AUSTRALIANS
■
* V
A
isti
mk
v '
Mi
■
mmm
«*
: mm.
r* -ih
a
Mi
«
w
C'^l
—I
m
§
■
w *
If
iPH
ll
i
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
FOR AUSTRALIANS
the type best suited to Australian conditions. Pickets c
renders it Flexible. It withstands Changes in Temperatur
gauge
aki
ted, after world-wide investigation, as
Loosened or Displaced. Its Special Design
is Frost-proof. Made in 10, 12 and 12J
ISit-’ -I
NO
WEDGES
OR
ro^
TIES
ox
o
<3
o
55
O
o
A
Sfc
s
m
4kV
O
f
fi
WILL NOT BURN.
If you use Waratah B.H.P. Star Steel Posts you need never fear bushfires.
Waratah Posts will not burn. The posts, being star-shaped, are extraordinarily
rigid. It is almost impossible to bend them. They are a sure protection against
white ants.
With Waratah Steel Posts you should use WARATAH FENCING WIRE. The
finest Fencing Wire made in any part of the world —will stand the severest
straining .test —always even and reliable. Look for the “Waratah” disc on every coil.
WARATAH WIRE NETTING, made in Australia, from Australian materials—
guaranteed even, regular and reliable —rolls out fiat.
Made at Newcastle, N.S.W., from finest “8.H.P.” Steel.
oA/{anufaclured
RYLANDS BROS.(AUST.) LIMITED
M EWCASTLE
200 STEEL POSTS or 20 WOOD
POSTS PER DAY
PER
DAY
JJ
£ - ; y
E
'S'/"''*'/'// Vt
'»><>./ , r
Uh&s€lA/
(JOiL -tfett? 7
WARATAH BH P STAR STEEL POSTS
sure protection against White Ants and Damp-rot. Can be easily driven in the
hardest ground. These posts are extraordinarily rigid, and, being star-shaped,
ive equal strength in every direction. Aiso always ask for —
WARATAH FENCING WIRE.
The World’s finest wire—will
stand the severest straining tests.
WARATAH WIRE NETTING
Guaranteed even and reliable.
Runs out flat.
C/vfa.ntu/'ac
RYLANDS BROS.
LTD. NEWCASTI
ALL OF ABOVE ARE MANUFACTURED BY
RYLANDS BROS. (AUS.) LTD., NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
AND AT 422 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
MADE FROM THE FINEST
B.H.P. NEWCASTLE STEEL
