

'•'Sbm
*")
h
m
&
m
m
L/Ul'l I MKUU U
NOTHING
TO ARGUE
ABOUT/
Boiit Ar6ue
sir
v
m
Jim
fm
m
m
lytu
ims
m
'S' * v
m
K
Branded on
the rind with
2
BLUE
A
it.*
m
\\\\
>v?
‘I./
wm
m
m
•fir
ttjsmmmmmmf
J.C.HUTTON PtvK (Div of United Provisions li d ) Brisbane .Melbourne, Adelaide, Fremantle Launceston. (Prescott Ltd. AqenhSydney
The Bulletin
Ae/fi /fie
Vol. 51.—N0. 2652.
Wednesday, December 10, 1930*
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The
BRIGHTEST IN
Quarterly.
?HE WORLD,
On Sale at all booksellers,
GIVE BOOK PRESENTS.
72-pagre “XMAS CATALOGUE” Now Ready.
Posted Free Anywhere, on Request.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
G.P.O. Box 1521 DD.
tmi
LUU
This Book FREE to YOU!
............ SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
5.8.314
HOLBROOKS
SAUCE
WORCESTERSI
sd
THE BREAKFAST
Host Holbrook Says:
“ My Worcester-
shire Sauce stim-
ulates the appetite
for breakfast.
Just a few drops
with the eggs and
bacon ah 1 what
a delightful zest.”
:\i/'a
XMAS 1930. Give him a
ROLLS
RAZOR
The British ONE BLADE Safety, which will
give him years of comfortable shaves and
save him the cost of thousands of wafer blades.
The price of a ROLLS RAZOR includes the
price of the strop, the hone and special fool-
proof stropping mechanism.
FIVE YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
THE IDEAL GIFT FOR ANY MAN.
Imperial Model—
No. 1, 50/-; No. 2, 40/-
Speeial Xrpas Gift Models, Gold-plated
Models and Travellers’ sets.
The polls Razor Co. of AusL,
8a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
MICK SIMMONS, LTD.,
Wholesale distributors for N.S.W., Haymarket,
Sydney.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
... SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/-per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
If any illustration in “The
takes your fancy, write to the
who will quote you
Bulletin”
Manager
5 original.
4
r>
%
%
4
h'
Close to shopping and
theatre districts, yet situate
in exclusive neighbourhood.
Two minutes from Royal
Albert Hall. Overlooking
Royal Parks. Central heat-
ing, running water and tele-
phone in every bedroom.
Private bathrooms, self-
contained suites, garage*
Inclusive daily, weekly or
monthly terms.
Telegrams: *f Improvisor,” Kensington,
*in the social heart of the first city
of the world ’
Wider same direction.
Brighton
Bat
PUMP
HOTEL
ROYAL
CRESCENT
HOTEL
**r
%
m
©
II
2
3
0
8
4
R
V!
o?.
Paris, the cradle
of elegance
has adopted the Omega watch as stan-
dard of good taste.
It is the favourite of discriminating
people throughout the world for. the
beauty of its lines and the unfailing
accuracy of its movement.
At the better jewellers only.
Omega
EXACT TIME FOR LIFE
The Red Page
Literary Standards
Professor Hancock complains in “Aus-
tralia” (p. 303) that we have “no literary
review witii decent standards.” • He means,
no doubt, the kind of review that Wells’s
Mr Parham wanted his millionaire
acquaintance to run at a loss for him:—
You encourage or you rebuke nations. You point
out how JRussia has erred or Germany taken your
hint of the week before last. You judge Judges. *
You have a word of kindly praise or mild con-
tempt for the foolish multitude of writers. Every
week you make or mar reputations. Criticising
everyone you go uncriticised. You speak out of a
cloud, glorious, powerful and obscure.
All these self-consciously cultured publica-
tions have a desperate struggle for exist-
ence nowadays, and some of the oldest
have died or been merged in others. Their
day is past. The giants—the men and
women who are ‘great literary artists, and
who also have something of public interest
to say—prefer to hold forth where they
will be heard. Dean Inge—not much of
a Christian, perhaps, but pre-eminent as a
writer and thinker—wouldn’t waste his
social and political propaganda on an eclec-
tic weekly. Practically all his contributions
to the thought of the day appear in an
evening daily. Britain’s most accomplished
novel-reviewer—one of the few in the world
with no prejudices, a crystal-clear style,
and the capacity tb discuss novel-writing
as a.n expert—is Arnold Bennett. He also
confines himself almost entirety to the
popular press. The same with Wells, Shaw
and half a dozen other bearers of world-
famous names. Katherine Mansfield exem-
plified in the late- “Athenaeum” some of
the weaknesses of the other sort, of review r er
in a country like England. Her superiority
was Olympian. She praised one or two
writers—chiefly women—but what she obvi-
ously loved best was to take some author
of established fame and cut him to pieces;
and she had a style that was matchlessly
suited for the purpose. Such reviewers cer-
tainty set decent, not to say sky-high, stand-
ards, and their technique is often dazzling;
but few have judicial minds or the “com-
mon touch,” and some are priggish; and
thus all but, the Mr. Parhams of this world
are disposed, like Wells, to smile at them
and neglect the publications in which their
writings appear.
The great papers of Australia don’t aim
at what might be called the Parham stand-
ard in their literary pages. But they do
supply eminently temperate and competent
criticisms, and the effect is probably to do
more for literature here than all the high-
brow reviews put together are doing for it
in England.
HENRI SINGEMOINE.
Two Great Sagas
For the appearance of his latest expansion
of the Forsyte Saga, On Forsyte ’Change
(Heinemann, 7s. 6d. net), Galsworthy apolo-
gises to “a long-suffering public and still
more'Iong-suffering critics.” He would have
ceased to be Galsworthy if he hadn’t. He
can be depended upon to do the decent
thing, which no doubt accounts for his reso-
lute attachment to often likeable and always
probable people, who are not by any means
the extinct race the trumpeters of morons,
neurotics, perverts and general monstrosities
imply they are.
Though the volume is apocryphal, the
Forsytes of its nineteen tales—that describes
them better than “stories” would—are those
who were alive at the end of the Saga and
beginning of the Comedy. They have their
place in the bigger picture of middle-class
England between 1821 and 1918, but, though
the background of the complete saga seems
necessary to a thorough appreciation of their
subtleties, many of them are so good in
themselves that the volume could be com-
mended as a reader’s introduction to Gals-
worthy. At least one reader finds this sort
of thing delightful (Aunt Ann is telling
young Jolyon about “Superior Dosset” For-
syte) ,
“But what' was he ?” ,■
“He began as a mason, dear.”
“A Freemason?”
“Not at first. A stonemason.”
If Galsworthy does one thing better than
another, it is in the deftness with which lie
treads the line between sunshine and shade,
or so it strikes me. His work may some
day be adjudged comedic in the grand
manner. Meanwhile, such a tale as “Sands
of Time,” to mention one of half a dozen
or more, is a gem of short storiesp.quite
apart from the grandeur of its setting.
Perhaps one would have to be of the
Chosen, instead of a mere abstract admirer
of them, to find.an.equal grandeur in the
setting of the Rakonitz saga, continued in
Mosaic, by G. B. Stern (Chapman and Hall;
7s. 6d. net). There is much of Europe—
London, Paris, Vienna—and for all one
knows the next instalment may be in Asia,
from where, in the last sentence or two,
comes that news of a grandchild which
closes the feud between Elsa and Berthe, on
which frailish thread Miss Stern has strung
her pearls. Yet to me, no doubt because I
am an outsider, the setting seems limited to
a swathe cut through those places, a swathe
into which the teeming Gentiles of those
countries never venture a foot. The action
seems to be confined to a long street, wholly
inhabited by Jewish people. In Galsworthy
it is the men who hold the stage; in Mosaic
it, is the women. Galsworthy’s women are
much more vital than are Miss Stem’s men,
but Galsworthy has not one woman to
stand beside Berthe. Mosaic is, in fact, a
saga of womanhood. Personalty, I think
Miss Stem purposely has her men like
that, that her women may be as great as
they are. Within the limits she has imposed,
Miss Stem’s manner is biblical in its con-
trol over massed occurrence. The first few
chapters are difficult; it is not until Chapter
V that the stage is clear of the pageant and
ready for the comedy that sweeps on from
then until the conclusion of the novel, in
time about a year ago; much the same
period as Galsworthy surveys. Miss Stem
has accepted that there is a fiction manner,
even a fiction sentence, for women writers
only. You get it in a thousand ways, apart
from womanhood’s being/the theme, and
particularly in such phrases as, “She had
bragged ingenuously of her conquest till
Elsa was a curling mass of bright little
silver rages.” That lifts you at once into
the tradition of Jane, and I for one believe
there are few better. The third and closing
part of this novel is as beautiful as any-
thing L.know of in current fiction.
C.M
Those Abo. Myths—Are Myths
“Myths and Legends of the Australian
Aboriginals” (R.P. 29/10/’3O) is a very
pretty book full of very curious stories.
Its most attractive feature, to me, is the
sincere sympathy of the author for the
aboriginals. Too much high-browed ped-
antry has been imposed- upon their manners
and customs by writers who have sought
to invest their simple ceremonies with
occultism. Dr. Ramsay Smith has avoided
this kind of thing, but he has erred in
another way, for in re-telling the tales he
has placed them in a celestial environment
and credited the relaters with an aesthetic
sense they do not possess. That is, of course,
presuming that those who told the tales
had not been contaminated by civilisation,
for the aboriginal natives of Australia,
according to my experience, absorb the
white man’s legends avidly and incorporate
them with their own. Thus in the descrip-
tion of the “Land of Perfection”:—
On the plain of Nullarbor there existed a wonderful
and beautiful country. From legendary accounts it
had the appearance of a city surrounded by four
white walls which varied in height from five hundred
to a thousand feet. The distance from one corner
of the city to the other was a day’s journey—about
40 miles from sunrise to sunset. Along the top of
each wall there were domes and spires. The outside
of the walls was composed of white quartz stone
and the inside was formed of a sky-blue stone
resembling slate.... The ground was covered with
a soft carpet of green grass. The flowers and the
grass had the appearance of a well-laid-out garden.
This delectable place was inhabited by
birds and insects,
and plants breathed their life into the air. All
living things obtained their livelihood from the
pure nir, and each to the other breathed into their
bodies life and strength. Thus in the Land of
Perfection there was no need for one creature to
prey upon another in order to live. So all lived in
happiness and harmony.
But human beings arrived at this Land
of Perfection only after death, led there
by the soul and welcomed by beneficent
spirits. Again, the following is an amazing
mental creation on the part of a full-blooded
aboriginal:—
On the horizon of the eastern sky he [a pilgrim]
saw a shapeless form suspended between earth and
space. He saw that it was assuming the form of
a clothed woman. As it took definite shape the
robes unfolded and fell apart from her body in four
portions, opening from the head to the feet like the
unfolding of a primrose bud, revealing the bright
yellow flowers. She stood disrobed, with her golden
hair streaming from the crown of her head to her
ankles. With both hands she cast her hair from
about her and immediately the strands took the
form of beams streaming forth like the rays of the
rising sun. The pilgrim gazed in silent ecstasy at
her overpowering majesty and magnificence. ' The
sight opened the gateway to his sense of mind and
reason, and he spoke to the rays of the morn and
asked, “Whence come thy bright and golden beams,
O Mother, Goddess of Love, Light and Life? Is it
thy purity that has maintained thy maidenly grace
and youthful strength? For more than ten thousand
years thou hast poured forth thyself as the ' en-
lightenment and the sustaining power of life!”
Soon after that, the blackfellow’s soul
wanted another look at the golden-haired
apparition “in native honor clad,” and then
“the earth • staggered and rolled and
trembled as if in dreadful agony.” Yet the
author asserts that the book “is a collec-
tion of narratives as told by pure-blooded
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—Anthony Horderns’ unfailing policy.
O
o
r
-----
*
m
ttt
SS!
SS®
SKiS
m
m
*
Ok
O
and buy them at
Anthony Horderns'
(THE SENIOR STORE)
m
JJcQ^Owtf
Sun”' ‘
life
*X\
GOLDEN DAWN
th
eo
tCCTED
V
RO
COL
U$>S)D
POEMS
OF
MAseneuo
THE PLAYS
OF
JOHN
GALSWORTHY
QQ
£
* as
y?
b.kvnc
A
©
n
In
w
a/optm
Postage
M
Postage 1/2
6S«i'ii(i:p;^3;o
Postage 2/*
Postage 30d.
PS
A bright and in-
teresting novel by
Margaret Pedlar.
"Golden Dawn’
is one of Peter B
Kyne’s best.
A novel in Ethel
M. Dell’s inimit-
able style.
A fine annual for
the little tots.
Packed full of fun.
A book for every
admirer of Gals-
worthy.
The title of this
speaks for itself.
A welcome gift.
A bumper book
of stirring yarns
for healthy boys.
Fine Presentation Volumes Annuals for Boys and Girls
Every Boys’ Book of Hobbies. By Cecil H. Bullivant. This includes
Wireless, Carpentry, Scouting, Camping and other subjects.
Price, 8/-. Postage 1/3 extra.
Great Short Novels of the World. A collection of complete short
novels chosen from the literature of all periods and countries,
by Barrett H. Clark. Price, 1 1/6. Postage 1/3 extra.
The Outline of Art. Edited by Sir William Orphen. Containing over
300 photographic reproductions of famous works of Art-
Price, 8/6. Postage 1/3 extra.
Great Sea Stories of all Nations. Edited by H. M. Tomlinson.
Price, 1 1 /6. Postage 1/3 extra.
Girls’ All Round Book. Edited by Mrs. Walter Wood. Contains
numerous stories, articles, hobbies, etc. Price, 7/-. Postage 1/3*
Australian Girls’ Annual. Contains grand school and adventure yarns.
Cloth cover. Price, 5/9. Postage 1/- extra.
Blackie’s Boys’ Annual. Stories which maintain an exceptionally high
standard. Price, 6/6. Postage 1/3 extra.
Champion Annual. A suitable gift for older boys. Price 6/11.
Postage, 1/ 3.
Chums. The most popular boys’ book published, being packed with
fine school and adventure yarns. Price, 13/6. Postage 2/-
Empire Annual for Australian Girls. A fine collection of entertaining
stories. Price, 8/6. Postage 1/3 extra.
Little Dots. An attractive annual for kiddies. Price, 3/6. Postage
1 /- extra.
Prize. A book for children Bto 12 years. Price, 3/6. Postage 1/*
Tiger Tim’s Annual. A fine book for young children. Price, 6/11.
Postage 1 /3.
An interesting his-
tory of the world
by H. G. Wells.
As interesting as
every Lowell
Thomas book.
A fine book for
little boys and
girls.
“Barren Corn”
will grip you from
cover to cover.
A most interesting
and enlightening
collection.
Another book for tiny
tots. Contains some
delightful tales.
Packed with good
stories and articles
for girls.
New C> Revised 6*
the
OUTLINU, oF . „
j9f \\\ REG\3iA» S
faTnnrF(%xs j®
the tfTT£« Of
GERTRUDE BELL
fod#
rrSF^xT
ORDANNIML
IRLS
m
I*3B P^ 65
HISTORY
T=
, t^elv
HGWELLS.\
m
first Publish*" ,n 1 *® U
at 427*
4ow OffeP«<> at U /®
.s***I** 1 ** •** *m>'**+
6^
CO^v
EDITION
Postage- l/tCt
Postage 1/4
Postage 1/6 Pestage lfldJ
Postage 1/a , Postage 1/6 '
Postage 1/


a
COMM
The Greatest Sacred Record
Ever Issued
“Anno Oommi"
(The Year of the aster)
DOX 67
(6/-)
'Anno Domini (arr. Willoughby)
In Two Parts
J. H. Squire Celeste Octet
(Augmented). With Choir,
. Trumpets and Organ
Other Well-Chosen
Sacred Records
9139
(6/-)
f Organ Medley of Christmas Carols
and Hymns. In Two Parts
(_ Clarence Raybould, Organ Solo
01855
(6/-)
The Sacred Hour, Reverie
(Ketelbey). In Two Parts
Quentin M. Maclean,
Organ Solo
9137
(6/-)
Christmas Overture (S. Coleridge
Taylor). In Two Parts
British Broadcasting Company's
Wireless Symphony Orchestra,
Conducted by Percy Pitt
DOX 15
I*/-]
"ELIJAH (Mendelssohn)
Thanks Be to God
Baal, We Cry to Thee
The Sheffield Choir, With
Orchestra and Organ.
Conducted by Sir Henry
„ Coward.
-t rr '
GIVE A COLUMBIA PORTABLE
The Ideal Xmas Gift
Model 109 a Model 112 a
£5/10 £7/10
Each Model with Carrier in Lid for 8 I Clinch Records
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS :
N.S.W.: Grafonola, Ltd., 39 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
VIC.: Columbia Distributors (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., 300 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
QUEENSLAND: King & King, Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane.
A. E. Harrold, 123-125 Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
Humourous Songs
DO 216
l*/-)
j MR. MACACHIE (Do You Feel All Right Lovie?)
, In Two Parts
l Roy Rene ("MO"), With Sadie Gale and Company
(-/f)
I \Z OQ
rTHE LONG LONG WAIL
In Two Parts
Hector St. Clair, Comedian
DO 191
IV-)
fSHE WAS POOR, BUT SHE WAS HONEST
(Version by Weston & Lee)
1 DON'T SEND MY BOY TO PRISON (Version by M ajor Jones)
[ Billy Bennett and Chorus
Everybody’s asking for
Old Time Favourites
01747
14/-)
(•FATHER'S FAVOURITES
i In Two Parts
( Terance Casey, Organ Solo
DO 189
(4/-)
PLANTATION MELODIES (H. Finck)
In Two Parts
Herm.an Finck and His
DOX 20
(6/-)
| AN OLD TIME SING-SONG
In Two Parts
[ With Charles Coborn in the Chair
DOX 73
16/-)
ENGLISH MEDLEY (arr. Evans)
In Two Parts
The Maestros, Vocal Quintette
Old Time c Dance c ßecords
DOX 68
(6/-)
THE JOLLY MILLER
Dance Medley.
In Two Parts
Gil Dech and
Syncopators
His
01701
(4/-)
LANCERS
(arr. R. S. Stoddon)
Parts I and 2
Figures I, 2, 3 and 4
k Court Symphony Orch.
01702
(4/-)
COMMUNITY LANCERS
Part 3. Figure 5. Court Symphony Orchestra
VALSE MEMORIES (arr. Debroy Somers)
Debroy Somers Band
Ask your Dealer for the Special Christmas Supplement containing
a comprehensive list of well-chosen Yuletide selections.
A V A
LABLE AT ALL MUSIC STORES
Columbia
THE LONG LIFE RECORD /ColufKX
m
W.A.: Phonographs, Ltd., 671 Hay Street, Perth.
S.A.: South Australian Phonograph Co., Ltd., Gilbert Buildings
Gilbert Place, Adelaide.
TAS.: Columbia Supplies (Tas.) Pty., Ltd., Launceston, Hobart
and Burnie.


DAGENITE BATTERIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
PRICES.
6 VOLT 11 PLATE (Type 3GHXII) £4 3 6
6 VOLT 13 PLATE (Type 3GHXI3) £4 15 6
6 VOLT 15 PLATE (Type 3GHXIS) £5 8 0
6 VOLT 17 PLATE (Type 3GHXI7) £6 5 0
12 VOLT 9 PLATE (Type 6GHX9) £6 19 6
Fit a “Dagenite”—Save Sales Tax.
f
I
$
Type 3GHXI3.
The Battery which knows its job—and does it,
GENEROUS AND CONTINUOUS POWER,
NATIONAL
ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.
London and Sydney.
Amalgamating Peto & Radford and Hart Accumulator Co., Ltd.
Representative - - - JOHN ARNOLD
386 Post Office Place, Melbourne, Cl.
aboriginals who have been conversant with
the subject from childhood. The myths as
they were told are allowed to speak for
themselves.”
After reading the book the only con-
clusion I could come to is that, if the Aus-
tralian aboriginal possesses such a high
moral tone as is here set out, and is able
to express it in such exquisite language,
we need not any longer bother him
with missionaries, but would benefit our-
selves greatly by inviting Jacky to send a
few of his tribal dialecticians to straighten
out some of our philosophical and religious
tangles. Still, Dr. Ramsay Smith has pro-
duced some of the most exquisitely written
and most entertaining absurdities I have yet
had the pleasure of reading. In that sense
I agree with Macdonald that “it is the sort
of book that might easily become an Aus-
tralian classic.”
J. T. BECKETT
Tales of Our Grandfathers
It seems that what many of us have
demanded for years has now begun to
descend upon us like a shower of rain out of
a blue sky. Records of bur past are begin-
ning to appear, reminiscences of scenes,
personalities, opinions. About a month ago
svas published in Melbourne that sizeable and
thoroughly interesting book “Life’s Pano-
rama,” by John A. Gurner, K.C., who knew
his Victoria even in the ’fifties. Our novelists,
such as Martin Mills, Brent of Bin Bin and
M. Barnard Eldershaw,.have begun to thrid
the tangled forests of the early days. And
now comes another contribution, a source-
book with a positive charm of its own, a small
collection of reminiscences, Souvenirs d’ une
Parisienne aux Antipodes (Angus and Rob-
ertson). The Parisian is Madame Marie
Rousselet Niau, and her experiences in the
“antipodes” (which the Oxford Dictionary
obligingly gives as one equivalent for
“underworld”) began about 1880.
The book opens with a chapter written,
apparently, during the war and recalling the
author’s vicissitudes in Paris during the
siege of 1870. The facts are such as we have
often heard; but the accumulation of dis-
asters is made personal and vivid, so that we
can understand the opening of chapter two.
The writer there says that her health was
broken by the long series of privations and
sorrows, so that after some years the Niaus
decided to go out to a colony in the Pacific
Islands, “La Nouvelle France.” This was a
scheme launched by the Marquis de Rays,
mentioned in many Bulletin paragraphs.
M. Niau, who had come in an English vessel
as far as Sydney with his wife and child in
1880, left them in Sydney, and set out for
“Nouvelle France,” only to find that the
island had just been wholly abandoned by
the indignant and starving colonists, who
had insisted on being taken to Australia.
M. Niau and his few companions, their ship
being seriously disabled, led a Crusoe life
for many months, but at last were taken
back to Sydney, and then the Niau family’s
shared adventures began. They took a selec-
tion, the furthest inland, on the Daintree
River near Port Douglas. The North
Queensland life, with all its difficulties and
its charms, its defects and qualities, can
seldom have been faced by a more robust
and frank settler than Madame Niau. Un-
like so many new arrivals, she did not
measure her surroundings by the standards
of a London suburb or a Parisian apartment.
Life in a tent, then in a hut on high posts;
visits from “boa-constrictors,” from un-
friendly blacks; floods, fires, lack of com-
munication with the coast; all these were
incidents. The little children grew splen-
didly once they had goats’ milk in plenty :
“Our Jack made amazing progress. This
open-air life strengthened his constitution;
his intelligence and power of observation
found their nourishment in the simple life
we led.” Spirited and loyal, the author’s
character shows through these brief chapters
that are like something rescued from an earl-
ier world. Yet they serve to remind us that
in Australia the period of “frontier life”
is even yet not closed. Many of Madame
Niau’s experiences resemble those of Jack
McLaren in “My Crowded Solitude.” There
is room for other such books by anyone
who can write simply of what happens in
the year’s round.
Mme. Niau’s “Souvenirs” make the first
book in French to be published in Aus-
tralia, or so I understand. (There may,
perhaps, have been some textbooks and
grammars compiled here.) The book has
been well proof-read, and, being for use in
schools, contains a fairly complex vocab-
ulary. Those who amuse themselves with
such matters will notice that the author
sometimes finds satisfactory French equiva-
lents for our special phenomena, but at other
times will simply write “le bush,” “des
black-trackers,” even “le creek” and “les
settlers.” On the whole, though, the pages
are devoid of quotation marks, and there are
no footnotes. The same and more can be
said of the Australian short stories and
novels of Paul Wenz, which have been
brought irresistibly to mind by the sight
of this new book. Why has a selection
from them, in their simple, vigorous French,
never been arranged for our schools nor
made familiar to all of us? Perhaps this
modest and refreshing book of “Souvenirs”
may prepare our minds for the reception
and welcoming of French-Australian impres-
sions.
NETTIE PALMER.
A Satchel of Books
Father Time's Xmas Annual (W. ll'.
Honey, Sydney). A bright attempt to pro-
vide an Australian annual for children, it
is attractively illustrated by John Wiseman
and has good stories and verse by Elsie Cole,
Elizabeth Powell and about a dozen others.
In Mysterious Waye (Murray) P. ’’ C.
Wren runs amok in the realm previously
reserved for Edgar Wallace. The best that
can be said for Mr. Wren’s achievement is
that Mr. Wallace has written worse ones.
The eminent historian of the French Foreign
Legion has here produced a crook-cwm-
mystery drama which ends where it should
begin and begins where it should end. It is
of shoddy sentiment, false emphasis and
commonplaceness all compact.
Arnold Bennett’s Journal 1929 (Cassell;
Angus and Robertson) is a gossipy diary,
recording generously that brilliant journal-
ist’s experiences and adventures (mostly
social) for a year or so. A fussiness in the
manner might not make a reader think any
more highly of the leading character, but it
certainly helps in making the book seem an
authentic and unreserved document. Chief
value lies in the glimpses which Bennett, an
inveterate good liver, gives of good living in
England and on the Continent.
Ruth Brockington’s The Perfect Marriage
(Chapman and Hall) contains a touching
picture of an unsophisticated flapper’s inno-
cent passion for a nice schoolboy. Shyness
parts them, and she mistakenly marries an
older man who develops a deep affection
for (he lad whom his wife still loves, and
who loves her. The story weakens here.
The doctor-husband who insists on throwing
the young people together is too unworldly
to be true, and his end is melodrama. The
people at the vicarage, young and old, are
convincing, and there is a sincere religious
motif which will appeal to many.
H. A. Yachell’s new novel, Out of Great
Tribulations (Hutchinson), is below his
form. As a murder story it doesn’t thrill;
the reader knows who committed the crime,
and how, from the beginning. Some of the
characters talk even more artificially than
this writer’s characters usually do. One
youth addresses an illiterate girl this way:
My classical attainments led to my understudying
Bacchus. I was sent down from Oxford —drunk and
disorderly. Cut that out. Major canamus. That is
Latin.
And the ending is surprisingly weak. But,
for all this, Standish, the K. 0., and his
middle-aged lady-love are live and likeable
folk; Mr. Yachell never goes wrong in his
delineations of elderly people of the class
he knows so well.
Kindness in a Corner, by T. F. Powys
(Chatto and Windus), is astonishingly bril-
liant here, astonishingly futile there; and it
teems with beautiful sentiments and lan-
guage, charming odd people, and sniggering
pornography. A “special edition of 200
copies signed by the author” is available at
30s. a copy, and there is an irrelevant little
sketch on the dust-jacket labelled “This draw-
ing is by Gilbert Spencer.” In short, the
work is a characteristic product of the new
English School of Whimsy. Mr. Powys is
such a genuine artist in words that one
grieves to see him descending to cheap
methods of salesmanship.
Caliban in Grub Street, by Ronald A.
Knox (Sliced and Ward; Roycroft, Sydney).
The author replies to the writers of
symposia in the press on religious questions.
His targets include such writers as Bennett,
Wells, Drinkwater, Rebecca West, Walpole,
Stacpoole and many others most of whom,
under such headings as “My Religion,” “If
I Were a Preacher,” and “The Reality of
Hell,” had attempted to state a case for their
not going to church. He admits a large
decrease in church attendance (in England),
and takes the statements of these writers as
representative of the ordinary man, finding
upon them in general that they
have grown out of the religion of their childhood
■ without ever exactly discovering what it was, and
are suggesting substitutes for it, not because they
have decided that there is nothing in it, but because
they have assumed that there is nothing in it.
The book is worth reading for the logical
thinking alone, quite apart from the strong
appeal of its topic.
'Fighting soldiers will appreciate As You
Were (Hogarth Press), by Wilfrid Benson,
the witty author of “Dawn on Mont Blanc.”
Rupert Came, the boy-hero, never gets to
the. front,_ as the Armistice arrives before his
training is over, but he experiences quite a
number of the horrors of warfare. The influ-
ential general who dodges the firing-line on
the plea of corns, or something similar; the
futile inspections which the home-service war-
riors took with such deadly seriousness; the
scorn and loathing of the whole army system
which the manoeuvres of the cold-footers
inspired in the boys who had joined up full of
patriotic ideals—such subjects have an in-
terest which is universal, since they were
duplicated and re-duplicated all over the
Empire. Mr. Benson is not nearly so bitter
as the late O. E. Montague was in “Disen-
chantment”—for one thing he has not written
in the white heat of recent experience, as
Montague did —and he sees life as vividly,
and has quite as much humor.
The characters in Narcissus, by John
Hawley Roberts (Sears), are cold-bloodedly
promiscuous with the exception of young
Millwater Crane, who has retained his inno-
cence, and Shirley Clark, who wants to
deprive him of it. Milly is a noisome lad.
He longs and yet dreads to see himself
asleep.
The awful thought had come to him that maybe
he slept with his mouth open. He had good lips,
he knew, and teeth that were even and white, and a
wet pink tongue; but these features, however good,
could not but be disgusting, he felt sure, if sleep
relaxed the muscles to the point where the lips
parted and the tongue drooled.
So he rigs up a camera which automatically
photographs him while asleep, and is re-
assured. He sleeps with his mouth shut.
The time comes when curiosity overcomes
him, and lie decides reluctantly to oblige
Shirley. But the spectacle of his nude form
in her bathroom is too much for him :
“It’s mine,” he cried to himself, ‘‘this beauty. All
mine. And no one but myself shall have it.”
So he dresses hurriedly and leaves the lady
to her yearnings. Modernity is the keynote
of this witty yet ahysmally humorless book —
a super-sophisticated modernity that has
eliminated such weaknesses as love.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped . Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Mulga M.: THE B. sticks to its yarn that
there are only two classes in the world—producers
and parasites. But it doesn’t want the job of classer.
Certainly many that look like parasites would he
able to show their right to go in with the producers
by reason of their assistance to the producers to pro-
duce more. (P.S.—lt is with this thought that we
journalists comfort ourselves.)... .J.F.D.: You can
get £1 paid in England by lodging £1 plus about
9 p.c. at an Australian bank. Which means that £1
lodged here will, at present, pay a shade over 18s.
in England. W r hat Mr. Dailey said (R.P. 19/11/’3O)
was that 20s. in Australia would buy no more of
the necessaries of life than 13s. in England
Johnny Horne: Four lines from your touching
eJrgy on the death of the old mare:—
The boss must have known she was dying; she’d
been crook for many a week;
But somehow he didn’t expect it when he found
her in the creek.
And when he saw her dead body he just stood there
till he cried.
Even the dogs kept on howling the night that Ole
Bawly died.
w „. ‘ ,
.... w. 1., You haven t yarded the atmosphere....
Jean J. A.: Sorry, but we always go to sleep now
when the breeze makes music in the trees... .Spin-
drift: Well done; but not much to d 0.... Marjorie:
Some promise; present effort doesn’t mean much....
No. 841: Queer mixture of tenses. And merely
sentimental jingle, anyway... .Alfred F.: Thanks,
He’s still sitting in the chair he filled then....
S-P.: Can’t find a new thought in it R.0.C.:
What does The B. think about Communism? Chiefly
that it’s more than half here, and you don’t recognise
it... .Australian: Tell us how it is to be done and
what advantages will come from it... .Max T.:
It’s not a bad picture you draw, but if it’s “not
meant to be poetry,” why try to disguise it as
such?... .Stan: “Old Jim” is an echo of something
that appeared a few weeks ago... .Jason: The basket
seemed to spring up and grab them... .Q.T.: There’s
a peg for verse in it, but not that sort of “sadful”
verse. Does the earth ever get dry from any cause
except want of rain ?.... Habet: We’ve seen that
before somewhere though perhaps not in type
T.W.: Send it to the hon. organiser of the Kindness
to Insects Week... .A.T.: Pars, below par... .T.M.:
Yes, it lias merit, but it’s too long and a bit too
ragged... .Nomdy Ploom: That theme has been worn
threadbare.... Simmo: “For our approval or other-
wise”? Otherwise wins... .R.H.W.: There’s some
humor in it, but no swing... .Stripper: It missed bv
very little... .Homo Australis: Dreadful G.0.F.":
Platitudes and unreal situations... .C.T.: An echo of
a Jack London yarn W.F.: Joseph Hocking and
water J.M.: The idea wasn’t worth all that labor.
A.D.: Pallid N.T.: Hand in hand, Rodney and
Gwen descended into the w.p.h S.W.: Unsavory
stuff J.P.K.: You can’t smuggle that in here
R.L.M.: Baby-substitution yarns went out of fashion
50 years ago J.U.: Couldn’t make head or tail
of it C.H.: Not badly written, hut it lacks
dramatic interest W.E.8.: A foggy piece of writ-
ing... .G.1.J.: You carried the joke too far....
G.R.8.H.: Same old runaway wife in her customary
capers... .G.F.: What are you trying to convey to
the reader?... .A.H.N.: Pointless.... E.J.: Diary of
an overworked lady-yelp doesn’t make a story....
L.A.S.: Good atmosphere, hut plot merely ari elabora-
tion of an ancient Abo. par. . . .0.R.C.: “It Happened
in June” won’t be printed in December or any other
month.... 8.C.W.: Characters don’t ring true....
E.W.: Needs oiling. .. .M.P.: Please, don’t take any
more peeps into the future M.M.M.: Neither gets
anywhere A.C.S.: Retype and punctuate, and we’ll
have a second look at it C.M.S.: A featherweight.
Bellerive: Hail! You certainly may continue
the sporting serial, several precious instalments of
which were blown out of the window and lost to
posterity:—
HIGH CLASS GAMES,
Veteran sportsmen of means,
~ f."?. °. tbe !, ° bl / uul 'A
Delight in their favorite
Proclaimed is'golf
jjy ac tive and wise.
As splendid sport
And. fine exercise.
But I’d sooner watch
A fast bowler at cricket,
And batsmen waiding the
Ball from the wicket.
a trunqui 1 day
When the sky is blue,
A tennis contest is
Attractive to view.
(Next: “The Defeat of Jack Johnson..” l )
. ...C.1.D.: Sincerity is its only merit... .C.G.:
Can’t work up any sympathy for a lady who charges
five bob for a bottle of lager... .R.P.: You picked
the wrong mark... .D.J.C.: Curtain was lifted too
early in the piece.... R.H.J.: Your bes't up to date,
but the down-and-out would have had an answer
ready V.H.C.: Not buying M.C.: Political
dictator an absurd and unreal figure.... R.L.P.: A
good idea spoilt in the telling. .. . D.C.J.: Both
amateurish... .M.M.0.8.: Too many technical allu-
sions, and it doesn’t work out well. .. .C.T.: Common-
place.... A.E.Y.: We want something stronger than
that... .L. 8.: You could do it better.... Smac:
Delighted to introduce your friends:—
There was a woman once who lived, she entered
man’s dominion.
She bossed her henpecked dusty coot, and ventured
l ier opinion.
At last th .® rea P er tlme dld stnke > she answered him
He Veiled ! her for nether climes, and sent her to
the D
ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS,
. ;
, D B - : Better stlck to ring-barking... .G.M.E.:
strive for a more decided line. .. . K.S.S.: Only fair.
lp - : Missed, but keep 011....U.T.: Fifteen
plurri.es and a sigh for a bottle of rum don’t make
11,1 Abo - l oke W.J.: The electrician didn’t connect.
E - R - : His arms seem to grow from the middle
of his back W.K.: That family couch has been sat
on too often N.P.: Decorative, but there’s not a
grin in it V.C.: At least the eyelashes are neatly
drawn,... S.L.: Winging their way home... .D.A.:
What the walrus said to the sea-serpent isn’t worth
printing G.H.: A scrubby little effort N.L.M.:
Nothing to blow your trumpet about A..J.V.: Feed
it to the silverfish. .. .G.G.8.: Can’t remember draw-
ing sent in three years ago. It must have been
pretty terrible if present effort is an improvement,
. ...P.N.: Wretched... .H.P.P.: If you can’t afford to
attend a life class, study the human form on the
nearest beach. .. .F.F.: Have seldom seen worse....
S.F.W.: You’re a catch-as-catch-can artist.


FAMOUS
PORT
*. .
VP
HI
Hi
I §
Ml
HH


The Bulletin
Vol. 51.—N0. 2652.
December 10, 1930.
HOME GROWN.
“The Australian-born Chief Justice Isaacs has received the congratulations of the Australian Natives’ Association on his appointment as Governor-General.”
“And this other-feller native say Good-oh, my word!”


NEW YEAR NUMBER
DECEMBER 31
SPECIAL
HOLIDA Y
ISSUE.
Concluding Instalment of Henry
Lawson’s Autobiography will be
published.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 21i George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: IV/-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 289 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westiialia: 3S Barracl: Street, Perth.
London : SC Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
wethly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.,
0 months, 15s. Cd.; S months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d. Elsewhere: sd.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES . . 2, 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . . . 5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 9
POLITICAL POINTS (drawings by Frith) .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. . . 11, 12
PERSONAL (with caricatures) .. . . .. 11
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..15
THE PALETTE 15
“WILD CAT’’ COLUMNS 17, 18
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT . . .. 21
MAN ON THE LAND 22, 26
SMOKE-OH (with drawings) 27
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 28, 31
SHADOW SHOWS 33
SPORTING (illustrated) 35, 36
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 39
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP . . . . 39, 41
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE .. .. ..11
Serial, “Break o’ Day”—
By John Crisp . . . . . . 12, 43
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 44
Complete Story—
“THE SENTIMENTALIST”—
By G. Harrison Jones . . . . . . 46
Special New Year Number, December 31.
PULLING THE WORKER’S LEG.
This would be an easy world to live in if
we could create something out of nothing;
and the struggle to do it still goes on.
Naturally the politician thinks he can suc-
ceed where all the other millions have
failed; his own tremendous failures do not
discourage him because somebody else
alw r ays has to do the paying. His present
cure for our ills is credit—he proposes, to
“create credit.” Exactly what he means by
it he never explains, but in various ways
he makes it understood that credit is an-
other word for wealth.
Now, it is not necessarily anything of the
sort. Rightly employed it may lead to
wealth; but to begin with it means debt,
and if it is not rightly employed it may
never mean anything else. Australia began
to seriously “mobilise its credit” about 50
years ago and take it to London. Its credit
was based on its capacity to tax its people
and on its people’s ability to pay the taxes.
Just by signing a few names to a few pieces
of otherwise worthless paper it was able to
get millions in hard cash—millions which it
would have taken years of work and self-
denial to earn. The operation was so simple
that it took its credit again and again to
the same market, and to other markets
which it discovered, until in the end it had
raised 1100 millions. Then its credit began
to wear thin, and the people who had been
paying their money for our promise to tax
ourselves began to doubt whether we could
tax ourselves sufficiently.
The hard fact which we overlooked and
still want to overlook is that when we cash
our credit we merely postpone the work and
self-denial which the money represents.
We sign ourselves into a form of slavery
and undertake to work ourselves out of it.
The theory of the thing, of course, is that
we shall get so much assistance from the
loan that it will work itself out. And some-
times it does. Many a man has “established
a credit” at a pawnbroker’s and raised
enough to buy a kit of tools, which have
soon paid for themselves and released the
pledge. The politician, however, has never
done anything like that. He has been
the arch-meddler; he has never in all the
history of Australia paid off a loan out of
the earnings of the undertaking in which the
loan has been “invested.” Now, having
piled the loans so high that we cannot pay
the interest on them—we have for years
past been doing it out of more loans—he
says he has invented a new plan whereby
the orgy can be continued.
Disastrous as the orgy has been, The
Bulletin is not at all satisfied that it can
be suddenly stopped without very serious
consequences. Some of them, in the shape
of widespread unemployment, we have
already. But if, as was suggested here last
week, we take a hair of the dog that bit us,
it ought to be done deliberately and with
a full knowledge of what we are doing.
To change the name of our liquor and pre-
tend that it is not liquor at all and that
we have given up the bad habit will be
stupid and liable to land us in quite a new
and worse set of difficulties. This is the
supreme danger of those experiments on the
currency which various persistent members
of the Labor party are bent on forcing
upon us.
It is not necessary for purposes of this
argument to show that experiments on the
currency must fail. It is enough to show
that they are at the best experiments and
that failure would have ruinous results.
Nothing we can do with our currency here
can have any immediately beneficial effect
abroad. All the printing presses in Australia
could not turn out enough notes to pay a
day’s interest on our foreign debt. Further,
our overseas loans are tumbling in fast
for renewal. On top of that is the possi-
bility—the extreme probability, amounting
almost to a certainty—that we shall have
to borrow abroad to carry on our services:
we are only carrying on now by floating
temporary loans. Suppose the experiments
on our currency fail, where shall we be?
Obviously we shall have shut the door
against fresh loans; obviously we shall
make renewals extremely difficult. Who will
lend to a country whose notes are at a
heavy discount? Britain’s last experience
was with its ally France during the war.
It bought France’s 500-franc national lOU’s
for the English equivalent of 340 francs. It
was paid lately at the rate of about 100
francs for 500.
If we could be sure of getting substan-
tial benefits we might take large risks of
ultimate failure. But even the smallest
benefits are highly problematic. There is a
certain amount of “water” in the currency
already. That is obvious from the fact
that our £l-note is not worth £1 of English
money, or its equivalent in French or U.S.
money. What benefit is the Australian
worker getting from that? Has he noticed
himself particularly well off lately? Of
course he is not well off. If a grocer adulter-
ated his sugar with sand, he might sell a
few pounds at the old price. But as soon
as the adulteration was known, the price
would fall. That is exactly what is happen-
ing with Australian notes, even though they
have been but little “watered” so far. The
Australian wrnrker is already paid in notes
which are worth only about nine-tenths of
their face value anywhere else. In other
words, as the result of the little bit of
inflation already practised, the Australian
worker who gets £5 a week is paid in money
which would only pay a debt of £4 10s.
anywhere else. That is the result of infla-
tion; instead of being a benefit to the
worker it is a fraud upon him.
There is only one group of men in Aus-
tralia who, consulting their self-interest,
might fight for adulteration, debasement,
inflation—call it what you like. These are
the exporters—the wool and wheat and
butter and meat growers, the great gold
and other metal mining companies and the
like. Certainly the present inflation suits
them splendidly, and some of them frankly
want more of it. If they cannot get it
through “watering” the currency, they hope
to get it by lifting foreign exchange to
20 or 25 per cent. That is to say, they
want to pay the Australian worker on the
£5-mark with five Australian notes; but
when they sell their product and the product
of that man’s labor abroad they want to
be paid in money which will buy £6 or
£6 5s of Australian moiiey. They are able
to do a little of it to-day, the English
£ being worth from 8 to 10 per cent, more
than the Australian, and they would like
a great deal more of it. But why the Aus-
tralian worker should help them to it
Heaven only knows!
Certainly the workers’ unions can chase
the rising market. When the pound comes
to be worth only 17s. they can seek more
wages, and again when it has fallen to 16s.
and once more when it reaches 15s. But
this means constant turmoil and a con-
dition of unrest in which our industries
cannot prosper. Yet that is the least of the
dangers which these adulteration proposals
entail.
A CENTRAL RESERVE BANK.
The Federal Government’s sudden demand
for a central reserve bank was merely a
symptom of a disease. Man is the most
conceited creature in the world. Rarely is
anything that goes wrong with his affairs his
own fault. Sometimes it is his wife’s, some-
times his mother-in-law’s, sometimes the
bank’s, sometimes the Government’s. When
lately things went all awry in the politico-
financial sphere it wasn’t the politicians’
fault. The fact that they had borrowed
1100 millions of expensive money and spent
most of it on things which did not earn
half their interest was forgotten; also the
fact that we were promising to pay in gold
and making no provision to get the gold.
Some joss had to be walloped; and the
banking system was as good as any. Things,
we were told, would have been quite dif-
ferent if we had had a central reserve bank.
Now a central reserve bank is not a bad
idea at all. It is an institution formed to
hold and invest a certain proportion of the
funds of the ordinary trading banks: its
function is primarily to keep this certain
proportion of the funds very readily acces-
sible, and to take them to the relief of any
constituent bank in want of help. It is an
institution very badly needed in a country
like the U.S.A., where there are thousands
of small banks; it is needed hardly at all in
a country like Australia, where there are
less than a dozen banks, with the Com-
monwealth Bank as an intermediary. In the
U.S.A. a hundred banks can go broke with-
out causing more than a ripple, so that one
bank is and never was under practical
compulsion to go to the rescue of another.
In Australia, however, as in England, none
of the great banks could afford to let one
of their number go down unaided. Thus we
have the essentials of a central reserve
system without the thing itself.
This means that there is no urgent call
for a central reserve bank, if any call at all.
Yet nothing is more certain than that any
tinkering with our banking system will pro-
voke doubts at a. moment when doubts can
do great harm. Indeed, the doubts will
crowd in from two directions: We shall
have those people who will suspect that
there is something wrong with the banks
themselves, and that this is merely a butt-
ressing process; and we shall have those
who suspect that it is a plan on the part
of the Red men of the Labor party to get
hold of the banks’ funds—deposits included.
Without question there was something to
justify the latter suspicion in the bill as the
Government introduced it and carried it
through the House of Reps. Though by far
the greater part of the funds will be the
reserves of the ordinary trading banks, the
control was to be taken out of their hands
and given to an unwieldy board of nine, a
majority of them Government servants and
nominees. This removal of responsibility
from the banks themselves is utterly wrong.
At present, if one of them should go broke,
there is no one on to whom it can shuffle
the blame. But if in the last resort its
funds are out of its hands, no institution
will accept responsibility for failure.
A committee of the Senate has made a
careful study of the bill, and has come
to conclusions that, on the whole, are
sound. Probably it would have preferred to
say that the entire business is mischievous at
the moment and should be dropped. In-
stead, in a spirit of compromise, it accepts
the suggestion that a central reserve bank
might be useful, but recommends that both
proposed constitution and control should be
amended, the latter, of course, in the
direction of freeing it from the clanger of
a Government raid. A case can be made
out for the doctrine that the entire traffic
in money and credit should be taken out
of private hands. And of course a case can
be made out for leaving it where it is.
But no case at all can be made out for
division of responsibility—and especially
division with the hungriest cormorant in
the country. For that, of course, is what
every Government is.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The New Governor-General.
If we were not so abominably hard up,
and if we were not so dependent upon
Britain to help us out of our difficulties,
without any reservations we might con-
gratulate ourselves upon the appointment
of Chief Justice Isaacs to the Governor-
Generalship. As matters are we can only
hope that an appointment which would
otherwise be so admirable will do us no
harm. There is no real reason, of course,
why it should. But unfortunately our stock
in London is very low at present, chiefly
on account of our financial shortcomings,
and that horrid word “repudiation” still
rankles. In the circumstances, it is for
us to assure Britain that the appointment,
so far from being part of a deep-laid and
sinister plot, is, in fact, based rather upon
a determination to reduce our expenses of
government, and that we believe we can
do this without weakening or endangering
in any way that connection to which the
Chief Justice is as devoted as any native
of any other part of the Empire could be.
That he will exercise his functions in a
strictly constitutional and non-partisan way
nobody who knows him or his record will
have any doubt whatever.
So far, then, from Britain losing any-
thing, materially or otherwise, by the
change, the probabilities are that she will
gain. If we can reduce our outgoings with-
out also reducing the quality of the real
services which a Governor-General renders,
she certainly will gain. The experiment
is at any rate in very good hands. Nobody
can give us a better lead in the matter of
curbing our extravagances than a Governor-
General who is one of ourselves; and it will
be easily possible for him to do it where
a stranger might hesitate lest he should be
thought not to be living up to the standards
set by his predecessors.
Revive the Migration Agreement!
Seeing that we are in such urgent need of
funds to carry us on until we can greatly
increase our production, why not revive the
migration loan agreement, to which the
British Government is a party? Under that
agreement the Commonwealth Government
bound itself to raise, on behalf of the
States, up to £34.000,000 (less the cost of
certain undertakings agreed to by the Brit-
ish Government under the old Empire
Settlement Act) for railways, roads, water-
supply and irrigation works and the like,
the rate of interest to be 1 per cent. p.a.
for the first five years and one-third of the
effective interest rate for the next five years.
On a 5 per cent, loan for 10 years Britain’s
contribution was to be 2.137 per cent, p.a.,
the Commonwealth’s 1.57 per cent, p.a., and
the State’s 1.293 per cent. p.a. It was
provided that “for every principal sum of
£75 issued to a State Government. .. .one
assisted migrant shall be received into and
satisfactorily settled in that State”; but the
States were given until 1935 to fulfil this
obligation, and others.
Before the Scullin Government realised
what it was up against it suggested to
Britain that the agreement should be sus-
pended, and suspended it was when only
61 millions had been advanced to the
States, though another 2-k millions of ex-
penditure had been approved. But it has
not been cancelled, and there is good reason
to believe that the British Government
would be willing to go on with the thing,
especially as it is doubtless anxious to re-
move the impression that its unyielding
attitude at the Imperial Conference, and its
Colonial Secretary’s reference to “humbug,”
were actuated by hostility to the Dominions.
The Australian Government, for its part, will
find it necessary to prove that in its clumsy
manner of securing the appointment of an
Australian-born Governor-General no slight
to the King was intended, nor any threat
to the British connection. A migration
loan would be an earnest of our unshaken
determination to make the Commonwealth
a fit home, not oxdy for the native-born,
but for enterprising sons and daughters of
Britain; and,'backed, as it would be, by
the British Government, it would succeed
where any other sort of flotation might
fail. It would combine good sentiment with
good business.
By amendment made after the 1926 Im-
perial Conference, the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment is empowered “to perform the
functions falling to a State under the
Migration Agreement in respect to terri-
tories under the administration of the Com-
monwealth,” Thus the Federal Government
could apply the proceeds of a migration
loan, or part of them, to the completion
of the railway to Darwin, thereby fulfilling
its agreement with South Australia; and
no other project would give useful employ-
ment to so many men or open up so vast
a tract of country with rich mining and
pastoral possibilities. The Government
might even accommodate immigrants who
are experienced horsemasters —it could get
plenty of that type from England—on a
big horse-breeding enterprise of its own in
Central Australia. It has been urged to
go in for horse-breeding often enough.
General Chauvel warned it in his last report
that Australia no longer bred “the best,
horses in the world for army purposes,” and
that “Government assistance is necessary
to bring about a revival of the industry and
thus ensure an adequate supply of army
remounts.”
4
The Universal Crime,
The English Justice McCardie said in a
recent lecture that “perjuiy was never more
rife than now.” It is shamefully rife in
Australia, at any rate. Anyone with experi-
ence of law courts knows that at least
50 per cent, of the evidence given in certain
jurisdictions is perjured. Co-res. in con-
tested divorce cases are expected to perjure
themselves, if guilty, on penalty of social
ostracism. In 99 per cent, of so-called
desertion cases in certain States the
petitioner, who is usually a woman, is re-
quired to commit perjury. When she swears
that she wants her husband back, her
solicitor (who has dictated the conventional
letter imploring the wanderer to return),
her counsel, and the weary-eyed old Judge
all know she is taking the name of God in
vain; and most of her friends know the
lover she is going to marry when she gets
rid of the husband who has become an
affliction. It sometimes happens that a
husband is so lacking in the instincts of a
gentleman that he will not agree to a col-
lusive divorce. In such circumstances he
can rely on being charged with adultery,
unless he gets in first and bowls his wife
out. In either event an orgy of perjury
ensues which lasts from the first stages of
the alimony proceedings to the last stages
of the trial. Amongst the very poor,
“deserted” wives mostly prefer to get their
husbands committed to gaol on mainten-
ance orders, and perjury is almost as rife
here as in divorce.
Not once in a hundred times is either an
accused person or a witness committed; for.
apparently with the tacit consent of all
parties, perjury is no longer perjury when
it is committed in certain courts and for
certain purposes. In the criminal jurisdic-
tion there is perjury, frequent and flagrant;
but here, at any rate, Judge or magistrate
is not blandly complaisant—he eyen bares
his teeth occasionally and threatens prose-
cution.
What should we do about it? Should the
entire law against perjury be swept away?


GOOD-AS-GOLD EGGS TO ORDER.
“In response to the instruction of the Labor Caucus, the Government called on the Commonwealth Bank Board last week to create credits and find £20,000,000
for various purposes. In the event of the directors failing to do so, it is understood that Mr. Anstey and his supporters in the Ministry are prepared to take steps to
abolish the board.”
FOWL-FANCIER ANSTEY: “Now if you geese don’t start laying eggs that’ll pass for gold, you’ll all have your heads cut off—see!”
Should it be permissible for the man of
means to fill a court with lying witnesses?
The suggestion is monstrous. There is no
more dangerous crime than perjury. That
is the first thing that it is necessary to
insist upon. When that has well soaked
into the community’s consciousness we
ought to begin to pursue it and punish it
with great severity.
But, it will be argued, most of those who
commit the crime—in the Divorce jurisdic-
tion especially—are driven to do it by
social obligations. The plea is a rotten one.
The position is that the law says divorce
shall be granted for certain things and
those only. Various people want divorces
for other, things; and because they cannot
get them they swear to a false set of cir-
cumstances. So the law is defeated; and it
should either assert itself if it is right or
be put out of business if it is wrong.
The maintenance of even one jurisdiction
where perjury is practised without compunc-
tion and without danger would be a re-
proach to our legal system if its influences
were not felt beyond its own boundaries.
But lying cannot be practised with im-
punity in one court without more or less
damage being done in other courts. And
there is such appalling danger in this that
we ought to lose no time in stiffening up
our national conscience to grapple with the
matter.
—»
“Less Cackle, More Captures.”
“X.S.”: Having lately come in intimate con-
tact with the Vic. C.I.D. over a particularly
atrocious crime, I was struck by the fact
that that worthy body apparently has no-
body on it remotely resembling a psy-
chologist or even a person of ordinary
culture. No doubt these policemen who
have risen to the exalted rank of detectives,
and from whom The Bulletin (3/12/’3O)
asks “more captures and less cackle,” are
competent enough wdien dealing with ordi-
nary cases. In the particular case over
which I met them they seemed to be so
many Alices in Wonderland. For hours I
and others labored to make them under-
stand the temperaments of the people they
had to deal with. It may, of course, be that
their appearance of blank stupidity and the
aimlessness of their questions masked a
Machiavellian subtlety, but I have my
doubts about it.
For instance, several of the principal
figures connected with the tragedy were
artists and intellectuals. The detectives’
ideas about the nature and the outlook of
an artist were staggering in their simplicity.
The sources of their knowledge of the
species could only have been shilling novel-
ettes and the movies. The notion that an
artist could be merely artistically inter-
ested in the model he was painting was
simply beyond their comprehension. Their
conception of an artistic revel was on the
lines of the grand orgy scenes made familiar
by Hollywood. The assertion that an even-
ing might be spent discussing a philosophic
concept of Croce merely intensified their
suspicions. What they obviously expected
to hear was that the artists disrobed and
spent the evening dancing round a phallus.
While they were thus busily engaged in
learning the ABC of Bohemia, no doubt
the actual criminal was equally busily
engaged in covering up his traces.
+
Motor Traffic.
Lord Beauchamp, back in N. S. Wales
recently, recalled that when he left it, after
serving a term as Governor, thei'e was not a
motor-car in Sydney. In the brief 30 years
that have intervened road traffic has been
completely revolutionised; and naturally its
regulation has been largely experimental,
largely tentative. At the outset there was
a certain terror of the new machine. Its
swiftness compared with the horse-drawn
vehicle impelled authority to impose all
manner of speed restrictions. Some of those
early terrified warnings remain; here and
there one can still find roadside instructions
to proceed at no more than an impossible
four miles an hour. As the number of cars
multiplied, it was seen that these restric-
tions caused congestion and, instead of mini-
mising dangers, increased them. This month
in England there comes into operation a
new law which completely wipes out the
speed limit and sets up new standards.
There are hundreds of people at steering
wheels, even in Australia, who ought never
to be licensed to drive. A motor-car is hot
only a vehicle; it is a terribly dangerous
weapon, and in unfit hands may do appall-
ing damage. Hitherto no serious attempt
has been made to determine the fitness of
an applicant for a license beyond ascertain-
ing his capacity to handle a car in a simple
trial. Apart from that, his temperamental
and physical qualities have been put to no
test. Under the new English law the appli-
cant’s physical fitness at least gets some
attention. His eyesight must be proved and
his freedom from certain disqualifying
maladies guaranteed. That will help; but
the temperamentally unfit will apparently
only be discovered by accident. True, a
new offence is created—careless driving, as
distinguished from dangerous driving; and
if the careless driver is shorn of his license
without compunction, the new law may be
well worth while.
But something more is wanted than that,
and it is wanted also in Australia. Obvi-
ously thousands of drivers do not know
the rules of the road—as, for example, which
car must give way at intersections. In
America, pretty generally, a rigid examina-
tion on these points is now insisted upon.
It should be here, and everywhere.
And the rights of the pedestrian must be
reconsidered also in the light of the new
conclusions concerning speed. If the motor-
ist is to be not only permitted but
encouraged to maintain speed between
crossings, he must be very severely dis-
couraged from maintaining speed over
crossings. There has been too much inclina-
tion to deny the pedestrian his just rights.
Traffic police are greatly concerned to see
that north and south motor traffic is held
up to give a safe passage to east and
west motor traffic, but-—in Sydney in par-
ticular—they are not nearly as concerned
to see that pedestrians have a similar safe
passage; and the regulations do not help
either. Maybe it needed a Labor Govern-
ment to set this right; but it is a scandal
that it, should. .
A Communist’s Curse.
Dear Bulletin, —The scribe who wrote recent
articles on over-production, etc., does not understand
what the Communist means by exhorting the workers
to work less and produce less as a remedy for their
present distress. Your scribe can see only Aus-
tralia, whereas the soapbox orator views the whole
world and sees distress and privation everywhere,
and understands this is not because of under-produc-
tion but because the few have too much and the
many too little.
In any case, even looking only at Australia, the
writer is one-eyed. Who derived the benefits from
all our easy-borrowed millions? Not the workers.
All they got was a bare living. A week or
a month of unemployment and they were on
the rocks. But there are thousands who did pile
up fortunes small and large and rendered little or
no service in return; and if there was a Govern-
ment in Australia to-day worth its salt it would not
be urging the farmer to produce more wheat and
the worker to work harder, but it would call on
these people to produce the money to pay our overseas
debts. There is no suffering or distress amongst
this class.—-Yours in distress,
The terrible thing about this is that so
much of it is true. There is privation and
distress everywhere; and it is not due to
under-production. Thousands are short of
food and clothing, and it is not because
they will not work, but because they can-
not sell the only commodity they have to
offer; their labor. And it is all shameful.
The trouble with the purveyors of nearly
all social nostrums is that they know only
one small circle. Here, for example, is this
apparently quite honest man believing that
only the “worker” is suffering: he sees thou-
sands of lawyers, doctors and “other para-
sites” who are “as well off as ever.” He
obviously doesn’t know the shifts that
“respectability” is being driven to. If he did
he might realise that the worst poverty is
the poverty that hides itself for shame.
He asks, naturally enough, where all the
money has gone. “Here,” he says, “you
have borrowed 40 millions or so a year for
many years. The workers haven’t got this
money. But thousands of others piled up
fortunes and gave little service in return;
and if there was a Government in Aus-
tralia to-day worth its salt it would call
on these people to produce the money to
pay our overseas debts.” There we have
the gist of the matter. Can we wonder
very much at the bitterness of men and
women who believe that, while tens of thou-
sands are going hungry, while hundreds of
thousands cannot get work, a few are sitting
behind heaps of money—money which might
be commandeered and exported to pay
those foreign debts which impose such a
burden of interest? They do not know that
not one farthing of all our borrowings came
to us as money, and that so far as it is rep-
resented by anything at all it is represented
by railways and schools and warehouses and
cottages and machinery and holes in the
ground. No doubt some men “made money”
out of the loan boom; some men would
make money out of an earthquake. But
if they were asked to produce the money,
they could at best hand out bundles and
bundles of papers. The richest man in Aus-.
tralia, so far from having any - money at
command, is probably heavily in debt. His
wealth consists merely of the surplus of his
assets over his liabilities. All the money
in this country at the present time would
not pay even the interest on our foreign
debts for one year.
The problem of how to right the world’s
wrongs is tremendous. We shall never make
much progress towards solving it if, instead
of seeking out the truth, we hug delusions
to our bosoms, and feed class-hatred upon .
them.
♦
Australia’s Burden in New Guinea.
Dear Bulletin —Quite a number of people
in Australia have the erroneous idea that
the Commonwealth Government has to pay
out annually a large sum of money
for the upkeep of its mandated territory
in New Guinea. This is not the case at all.
New Guinea, as a territory, is wholly self-
supporting, as its last balance-sheet (June
30, 1929) shows.
True, the Commonwealth Government
has seen fit to make four annual grants of
£lO,OOO for native welfare. But, then, that
is just so much eyewash for the League of
Nations. Last year it was expended for such
purposes as teaching the natives how to
grow their own produce, erecting native
hospitals, issuing medicines, treating v.-d.
cases amongst the natives and paying a
Government anthropologist, and it carries
over a surplus of £3304 into the next period.
This expenditure on native welfare, only a
fleabite compared with the amount which
the Territory pays out of revenue, amounted
last year' to £132,417 from a revenue of
£350,967.
Loans have been obtained from the Com-
monwealth Government for special purposes,
such as erection of wharves, roads to the
goldfields, etc., but these amounted to only
£54,425, of which £5938 has been repaid.
When sentiment creeps into business—
such as the “sacred trust” policy in regard
to the natives—then somebody has to be
prepared for a dead loss somewhere, and
the deadest loss has been to the Territory
itself; certainly not to the Commonwealth,
from which the Territory bought £327,716
worth of goods and to which it sent
£386,843 worth of gold and raw material.
Notwithstanding the facts that a credit
balance was carried over from the revenue
account last year, and exports exceeded
imports to the tune of £276,598 (the previous
year it was £659,194; the decrease is
accounted for by the drop in the copra
market and marking time on the goldfields),
the Territory’s rate of exchange with
countries of the world is the same as Aus-
tralia’s plus 10s. per cent. So Australia’s
association with the Territory is not such a
godsend as some people would make out.
It was only during the last session that
the Permanent Mandates Commission fully
realised the Administration’s position in the
Territory, and that was due to the fact of a
New Guinea official—Chinnery—being
present to advise Coleman when he was
being put through the hoops. Ryrie, good
and all as he may be, made a terrible fiasco
of the business on previous occasions, for
the simple reason that he didn’t know what
he was talking about, and as a result the
Administration had to suffer an avalanche
of pin-pricking criticism which was unjust.
—Yours, etc., Mandateite.


fdg
The Australian Provincial
Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912.
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman),
Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING,
Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon J. A. BOYD, J. R. KIRK,
Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand).
TOTAL ASSETS EXCEED £2,500,000
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Ilobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.
(1) Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders. (2) In the event of total disablement for life all future
premiums will be paid by the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses. (3)
Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and private hospitals,
varying in amount according to the sum assured and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be
paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately. (5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT, all sick-
ness and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES.
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary. GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
r s^
i
1
iSt.Oecrge
•
New Zealand^
Greatest Delicacy^
•—and fast becoming Australia’s. Tiny inch-long fish,
unique in flavour, whitebait is found only in sparkling
New Zealand streams, then for but three months of the
year.
You, however, can have it the year round, with all its
original freshness and flavour, for it is canned on the
banks of the rivers the same day as it is caught.
Tr y it. St. George Canned Whitebait will give you a
new meaning for the word “delicious.”
IRVINE AND STEVENSON’S
ST. GEORGE COMPANY, Ltd
Dunedin New Zealand
ST. GEORGE Delicacies
POLITICAL
POINTS
Good! The Commonwealth’s exports for
October, not including gold, were £8,658,751,
and our imports were £6,898,779; so, with
£150,000 of gold added —the month’s harvest
from our mines—exports were £1,759,972
better than imports. If we could keep that
up for 12 months and improve it by 50 per
cent, we should be just right—the surplus
would pay our interest bill nicely. For the
four months of this financial year, of course,
the comparison is not so good; if we add
£600,000 to the exports of merchandise to
represent gold won, we should still be
£700,000 short of paying for imports, let
alone providing for interest. Still, July,
August and September are dull months for ex-
ports ; and we haven’t done badly to almost
break even on the four months. In the same
four months last year imports were a shame-
ful £20,200,000 ahead of exports.
Isaac A. Isaacs, the first Australian-born
Governor-General of Australia, and Timothy
M. Healy, the first Irish-born Governor-
General of the Irish Free State, were born
in the same year (1855). Healy furnished
a precedent for Isaacs. They were both
barristers and ex-politicians, and the salary
PROUD PROGENITOR: “Now, Hammy, learn
yer ABC , and do vot yer teacher tells
yer, and ven you grow up you’ll be a
Governor-Cheneral.”
was £lO,OOO a year in each case, which seems
rather lavish for Ilealy and his successor,
McNeill. The man at Dublin rules a place
about the size of Tasmania, and there is
nothing “General” about him. Unlike the
head man of Canada, India or Australia
he has no plain Governors in his retinue.
Slang’s offensive against the Leg. Council
recalls the old European device of picking
a quarrel with some neighboring Power to
prevent morose concentration on an unpopu-
lar domestic policy. It can do nothing to
decrease unemployment, or to improve con-
ditions for the farmers, or to diminish the
losses on the railways: but it may divert
attention temporarily from the birdlime and
the eyewash and the downright hard lying
by which the elections were won.
Most of the talk about former G.-G. s
being “personal representatives” of the King
is nonsense. They have been at best nomi-
nees of whatever Government happened to
be in power in England, and it is highly im-
probable that the King was personally
acquainted with one of them since Dudley’s
day. The titles of all the recent men are
brand-new. Munro Ferguson is the first
viscount, Forster the first baron, Stonehaven
also the first baron. But in these days a
Parliamentary Opposition has an idea that
it must find evil in every single thing a
Government does; so, instead of making the
best of Isaacs’s appointment, for the sake
of our credit. Latham and the rest have made
the worst of it. It is time they took a larger
view of things.
They are clumsy fellows, these Federal
Ministers. when Scullin was about to
leave for Rome to see, among other things,
whether Italy could do with more Australian
wheat —it bought £13,662,000 worth in five
years—one of his tactless lieutenants must
go and hold up a few Italian immi-
grants and threaten to stop another lot.
Now “a diplomatic situation” has arisen,
and it won’t be safe for Scullin to mention
wheat. It was another over-zealous Minis-
ter who granted the Heinz concern au im-
port concession (reasonable if he had been
consistent) and refused similar applica-
tions from Rowntrees and Reckitts.
In proportion to population Victoria has
fewer police than N. S. Wales, Queensland,
Westralia, New York or London. There are
only 2141 altogether, and a large proportion
is engaged in directing traffic, collecting debts,
operating telephones and punching type-
writers at Russell-street. One result is that
the detectives trying to elucidate one of the
ferocious crimes that have startled the State
have been at work 18 hours a day for weeks.
It is doubtful if even Sher-
lock Holmes’s mind could
have stood up to a strain like
that.
The wildest men in N. S.
Wales these days are “Bondy”
Hoare, president of the
Northern Miners, and the
members of his staff. They
have had to reduce their
salaries by 12| per cent, (the
union insisted on it), and their
Labor Government, in which
the coalies have four l represen-
tatives, is to tax the balance
at the rate of Is. in the £ per
week —9d. in the £ more than
Bavin’s tax. The same Gov-
ernment. as they bitterly real-
ise, has undertaken to restore
the Bir per cent, which Bavin
took from the pay of the civil
servants, “the white-collar
push.” The position was dis-
cussed at a meeting at which
it was resolved “that we, the
members of the W.I.U. of A.,
view with disgust the attitude
of the State Labor party in
imposing a tax of Is. in the £
on workers.” “In the whole
of my Federation career,” said
“Bondy” afterwards, with the
air of a man whose faith in
human nature has been shat-
tered. “I have never heard
speeches so violently wrath-
ful.”
Westralia will have a national Govern-
ment presently, if the A.L.P. can put the
State before the party—and nothing is more
necessary in the present crisis, not in West-
’•;ilia alone, but in the Commonwealth and
all the other States. While unemployment
was being debated in the Leg. Assembly,
Attorney-General Davy, who was a Rhodes
Scholar, said: “Let us have a Government
drawn from all three parties, so that we
may work together and briug the State back
to prosperity, making use of the best brains
of the community for the common good.”
Chief Sec. Keenan and Lands Minister
Latham intimated that they shared Davy’s
sentiments, and were willing to stand down.
Davy and Keenan are Nationalists; Latham
speaks for the Country party.
Victims of the additional Federal tax of
Is. 6d. in the £ on property income are to
be denied even the advantage of the five-
a ear averaging system as regards that par-
ticular exaction, though it will apply as
usual to “earned” incomes. Thus a widow
who returned £6OO of property income for
the year to June 30. and who has since
lost half her rents or dividends, will have
1c pay £45 plus the already stiff tax on her
average income for five years, whereas a
“I have been ashamed to come before this House
and ask for the taxation that, we are asking for.”
Acting Treasurer Lyons.
Acting Treasurer: "I assure you it hurts
me more to do this than it hurts you.”
TAXPAYER: “But I don't see you handing
back any of the booty.”
bookmaker whose “earnings” for five years
averaged £lOOO in 1029-30 will be charged
£34 10s. Sid. State and unemployment
imposts are extra.
In England they don’t talk phrases which
nobody understands about “releasing credits’’
and “creating credit”; they talk in much
more simple language about “interest-free
loans.” In particular the interest-free loan
is to be used for house-building. The County
Council is to issue chits for wages and
material, and the chits are to go on cir-
culating until the rent pays off the principal.
What is to keep them circulating isn’t
explained, and still less what is to keep the
£lO chit from being swapped for what was
formerly only £5 worth of goods. “Shin-
plasters” used to be quite common out back;
and they weren’t always popular either.
STATE PREMIER (who promised to restore 1927 con-
ditions): “Now, Bill, pay up and look pleasant!
We’ve got to show how grateful we are to Com-
rade Percy.”
The first election under the new constitu-
tion of the Greater Brisbane Council is set
down for May 2; after that elections will be
held every three years, voting to be compul-
sory. The proposed change from adult to
occupier franchise has been qualified by the
proviso that no one may vote in more than
one ward. The Mayor is to be chosen by
the aldermen, instead of the people; this
will mean a return to the log-rolling and
wrangling for which Sydney City Council is
distinguished. The hoarse cries of the aider-
men at the 25 per cent, reduction in their
screws have had some effect; they are to be
eligible for election to an executive com-
mittee at the old £4OO p.a.
Westralia has set an example to other
States with isolated districts to provide for
by contributing to the carting sosts of wheat-
growers more than 20 miles from a railway.
They are to be allowed so much a bag on
the journey to the siding, with a maximum
of 41 d. per ton mile, 12 bags being reckoned
as a ton. This will help to keep the settlers
going until times improve, and the outlay
will be small compared with the certain loss
on 6 per cent, loan railways built these times.
Probably one of the first cases that his Lx.
of N. S. Wales read up before he refused the
request of Premier Lang to swamp the
Uppish House with abolitionists was Bal-
lance r. Glasgow, 1801. Maoriland’s then
Premier found himself saddled with a Leg.
Council that regarded his proposals with
horror. Pat Buckley, the Minister in the
Council, had only two votes upon which he
could rely in a chamber of 35 members.
Ballance asked for 12 appointments to
ensure that his measures would be “fully and
fairly discussed.” Lord Glasgow said he
was not prepared to appoint more than nine.
The dispute was submitted to the Secretary
of State for the Colonies, who instructed
the Governor that he must “accept unreser-
vedly the advice of the Government.” It
doesn’t follow, however, that the ruling;
reasonable enough in the circumstances
governs all cases.
When loan money was plentiful many
Australian municipal councils were as riot-
ously extravagant in their way as the Com-
monwealth and State Governments,, and they
have been reduced to corresnondingly
desperate straits ; but there is at least one
bright exception. It looks after the tidy
Sydney suburb of Strathfield, between seven
and eight miles from the Central Station.
The Strathfield Council hasn’t borrowed for
20 years; it even built its town hall out of
revenue. The rates are about the lowest in
N. S. Wales, and they are to be reduced.
Earle Page used to live in the municipality.
If he had adopted Strathfield methods of
finance during his 6-1 years as Commonwealth
Treasurer, and insisted on the States fol-
lowing suit as a condition of their getting the
255. p.h. p.a., plus special grants, he would
not have had to protest in the House the
other day that State and Federal taxes on
property income had reached 11s. Bd. in the
£ —with Lang’s ls.-in-the-£ unemployment
tax to be added.
According to the tale told on page 51 ol
the Federal Quarterly Summary for Sep-
tember, the public debt (Federal and State)
at June 30 was £1,100,597,198, being
£3,450,864 less than it was a year earlier.
But Australia hasn’t paid off £3,480,864 or
£864. Its fixed debt has decreased by the
amount specified because of the difficulty
experienced in getting fixed debt, but if loose
overdrafts, repayable on demand, are added
the total liability is still growing. Every
Treasurer’s budget includes, so much loan
money, to be obtained from Heaven knows
where and spent on “reproductive” some-
things, and even the reduced amount wouid
have been reckoned outrageously large in
more sane times. N. S. Wales alone hopes
to find and spend some £5,000,000 of other
people’s money this financial year. When
George Turner was steering Victoria through
the crisis of the ’nineties loan expenditure
was about £2,000,000 for six years.
As a brake on the sort of lawyer who
helps himself to clients’ funds, Vic. Attorney-
General Slater has introduced a bill making
it obligatory on a solicitor to insure his
trust with the Law Institute for not less
than £lOOO, and to lodge annually a statu-
tory declaration that he has complied with
the requirement to pay all money held for
clients into a trust account. The measure
was received much more favorably than
Slater’s Moratorium Bill.
When Freetradc was first sprouting above
the surface about 34 per cent, of the British
population had votes. Even of the qualified
a large proportion were illiterate. The
speechless mass accepted Freetrade as in-
structed. Now over 50 per cent, of the
people have votes, and this much larger and
more instructed body of electors begin to
express doubts about the fiscal tale which
was for so long accepted to order. There
are plenty of Freetraders left, but they are
a half-hearted crowd compared witlr’Vhat
they used to be. Snowden and Lloyd Geo,-.
are about the only survivors of the Gr: , •
Inquisitor type, and the Welshm- , npiy yet
prove open to an offer.
The Unemployment Tax Bill will be the
stiffest hurdle that the Hogans (Vie.) will
encounter this session. If they can manage
to scramble over they will get into recess
for at least three months, but they may have
to knock off the top-rail. The outlook for
the Transport Bill is unpromising, and it
seems likfflv that the Met.ronolitan Tramway
Hogan surveys the high jump.
Board will be reappointed for another year
instead of a new controlling body being
called into existence.
The plight of the wheatgrowers was dis-
cussed in the House of Reps, on Friday, and
one “Darby” Riordan chipped in:—
If I were a farmer I would burn the wheat and
walk off and join the crowds camping on the creeks.
This is an expression of the selfish, reckless,
destructive union-secretary spirit which has
become a curse to Australia—the same spirit
which moved a defeated Labor candidate
to lead a lawless strike of Sydney slaughter-
men, now a confessed failure, just when the
lamb-export season was beginning. Strike
and be damned to the graziers and the coun-
try ! Burn the wheat and go on the dole !
The wheatgrowers have a higher conception
of their duty to their families and the
nation. Still, they are threatened with ruin
owing to the sudden reduction of their wages
(i.e„ the price of wheat) by 50 or 60 p.c.,
while they still have to pay boom prices for
labor, goods and services; and they have
reminded Riordan’s Government that it
urged them to Grow More Wheat, and pro-
mised them 4s. a bushel at siding—one Labor
member made it 6s. 6d. The siding price
is now about 2s. L|d. in N. S. AVales and
2s. 4d. in Westralia, and Riordan’s Govern-
ment refused to consider a sales tax on flour
consumed in Australia, designed to give the
farmers another 7d. or so a bushel, though
with the influential Curtin, of Fremantle,
declaring for the sales tax it is weakening.
Weakening has become a habit with it, any-
how.


SOCIETU
"and it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“P.X.” : On Wednesday the “S. M. Herald”
presented the new G.-G. with a moustache
of the old ferocious pattern; that day the
Fairfaxes put him in the chair and clipped
and barbered him, and printed a clean-faced
Chief Justice next morning. What swift
changes there have been in the facial decora-
tion of the male !• When Isaac Isaacs
reached the High Court bench, and that was
less than 25 years ago, there was not a
WAR NEWS: ANOTHER DANGEROUS ENGAGEMENT.
TESS: “Haven’t you and Tom been engaged long enough to get married?”
JESS: “Too long, dear. He hasn’t a bean left.”
wholly clean face there. Barton’s was the
nearest approach to it, and he gave his
chubby cheeks a small adornment. But that
is not so astonishing as the fact that of all
the 50 men who met at Adelaide to frame a
Federal Constitution onlv three were clean
shaven ; .John Downer, of S. Australia, and
James and Leake, of Westralia. And almost
half of them were either full-bearded, or. like
George Turner, made a small concession to
the barber. Nowadays it is the old man
who uses the razor with greatest zeal;
witness the recent sacrifice of his moustache
by the Chief Justice. But practically all
the patriarchs of the Convention days were
quite unshorn; and the moustache was for
the younger men —among whom, of course,
Isaacs was one of the most brilliant.
* * * *
“Fore and Aft”: The recent move by the
British Government to abolish the practice of
laying wreaths on Great War
memorials, on the ground that it
only serves to keep old enmities
alive, reminds me that .some of
the British regiments still retain
customs which tend to the same
end. For instance, the Bth Hus-
sars, alone of all British cavalry
regiments, wear two crossbelts.
This they do in commemoration
of the fact that in the Peninsular
War they captured an entire
French cavalry regiment and
donned their ornate crossbelts in
addition, to their own. Even
more invidious is the custom of
the Border Regiment when cele-
brating the anniversary of Arroya
dcs Molinos, also in the Peniii-
sula. They grabbed a French
regiment of the line, including
their drums, then almost as
sacred as the colors. Every year
the regiment parades in full
feather. At its head march half
a dozen drummers clad in the cos-
tume of the Napoleonic infantry
and beating the famous drums.
* * -i.
“M. de : I join issue with
“Mells” (B. 3/12/’3O) when he
asserts that, whereas footpads,
burglars and their kind work in
association, the sex criminal in-
variably does the lone-wolf act.
There are hundreds of instances
to the contrary, starting from the
Mt. Rennie case. Sydney was
shocked to the depths a couple of
years ago by the case wherein a
girl was abducted and outraged
under the most loathsome circum-
stances by two young perverts,
who received heavy sentences for
their sadistic beastliness. And
there have been three notorious
cases of sex crime in company in
N. S. Wales within the past 12
months.
“Toorak”: The Melbourne and Union
clubs will be placed in a dilemma by the
appointment of Isaacs, iC.J., as Governor-
General. By their rules the G.-G. is ipso
facto an honorary member. But the pre-
judice against Jew.s is stronger in these clubs
than it is in most Paris clubs, and very
much stronger than in any London club but
one. There is only one practising. Jew in
the Union, and the Melbourne claims that
it has never elected a Jew. However, the Gov-
ernor-General is thi' King’s representative,
and if there is-one thing the members of Aus-
great clubs pride themselves on it.
is their loyalty. Not to accept him if there
is any hint that he is willing to join
would be equivalent to putting a slight on
the Sovereign. Still, clubs have been known
to do that kind of thing. The Travellers’
blackballed Cecil Rhodes, though the Prince
of Wales (afterwards Ed. VII.) had actually
put him up in person. .
From within the Bar:—
Isaac Isaacs is the third of our High Court Chief
Justices. Academically he is the greatest of them
all. His judgments are masterpieces of learning;
he will deal not only with the points directly .it
issue, but with every principle of law involved. His
industry is tremendous. But he has not the know-
ledge of the world of either of the other two, and
isn’t as ready to apply the law to the facts of life.
Of the three only Knox was not a terrifically hard
worker; he was more prepared to “let- it go at
that ’; he wouldn t dig, hkc the other two G ffit
spent half his nights doing it to him the
fascinating job in the world. Only Knox has been
called overbearing; yet he could be very human
Counsel had been delayed in anothei couit th ou„
the late appearance of one of the few Judges who
have been guilty of that sort of thing in recent yeais.
It was an appeal by the Crown, and the Crowns
counsel had taken the matter as far as he qould. The
delayed wig fell into the High Court full of explana-
tions and apologies. All right, all right, .aid
Learned Brother Knox, “we have all had those mis-
fortunes. You’ve made very good apologies for your-
sell', but what you’re going to make for your client
at present I can’t see.” Griffith was often im-
patient; Isaacs is rather inclined to be petulant,
and the two didn’t mix well. But of them all lie
can bp the most suave. Had he been born in Eng-
land and entered the diplomatic service, how far
might he not have gone!
THE PLEASURES OF TRAVEL.
“This is my third journey round the world, and I think my husband 's enjoyed them
quite as much as I.”
“Strange—l don’t think I’ve met him.”
“No, you wouldn’t. He stays at home.”
“Clarence Cafeteria”: Trinity College,
Melbourne Uni., is in the painful position
or having to choose between God and Mam-
mon. On olie side are the Archbishop of
Melbourne and the bishops of Ballarat, Ben-
digo, Gippsland, Wangaratta and St. Arnaud ;
on the other is a bequest of £20,000 left
to the college by James Hill Boyd, grazier.
Boyd, who presumably had an anti-ecclesias-
tical complex, stipulated in his will that the
cash could only go to the college conditionally
on its repealing within 12 months the clause
in its constitution permitting parsons or their
nominees to sit as members of the governing
body. The college took the case to Irvine,
C.J., but got no satisfaction. So unless
the State’s most eminent churchmen are sent
packing the £20,000 will go to other bene-
ficiaries.
“Kayeff”: Recent feats of parachutists
have shown the fallacy of the old idea that
a person falling from a great height loses
consciousness or life before reaching the
ground. Nearly two
years ago a sergeant
in the American ah’
force, one Bbse,
dropped 1000 feet
before his parachute
opened and experi-
enced no discomfort.
Last October at
Roosevelt Field,
Buschmeyer, a para-
chute instructor in
the air force, deliber-
ately dropped from
a ’plane flying at
8000 feet and waited
till he had fallen
2000 feet before pull-
ing the rip cord. He
found no difficulty in
breathing; his worst
discomfort was the
;iar on his shoulder-
harness when the
’chute opened. He
states that the sen-
sation was something
like riding oyer
ocean waves; tin;
denser and lighter
stretches of air could
be felt distinctly.
But even Busch-
meyer’s record for a
free fall is put in
the shade by that of
Jack Cope, who
stepped off at the
15.000-feet level and
fell 10,000 feet be-
fore the parachute
opened, yet landed
safely. One fact
established by these
investigators is that a man falling never
reaches a higher speed than 118 miles per
hour, no matter how far he descends. Modern
parachutes are designed to stand the shock
of a 2001 b. body falling at 400 miles per
hour, so there is a good margin of safety.
* * * *
“Ben Gunn” : The ownership of a tobacco-
tin containing some £3OO in sovereigns and
half-sovereigns, a cache discovered by a boy
scout a year or two ago in the busliland sloping
down to Sirius Cove. Sydney, is to be decided
by a coroner’s court. There is one claimant for
the lot, a German employed at the Zoo in
the early war years, whose story, which has
corroboration, is that he planted it and
couldn’t find the place again before he had
to leave his job and, later on, the
country. And there _ are at least three
claimants for a portion of the spoil, tnc
finder (but fol’ whom it might obviously be
there still) arid the , Federal and State
Governments, both of which have views on
the legal disposition oft treasure trove. Some
surprise is expressed that the knotty ques-
tion should he remitted to a coroner s court
for decision, hut this is ccntury-old English
law. Only a few years agq in Hampshire
a coroner’s court sat to decide the owner-
ship of a bit of valuable treasure trove con-
sisting of gold coins, packed in some kind
of stone receptacle, dating back to the
Roman occupation of Britain. As the
original owner must have been dead about
15 centuries, the only parties represented
were the youthful finder, the lord of the
manor and the Government. Some sort of
compromise was arrived at, the boy coming
off best, and the coins were ultimately pur-
chased for the British Museum.
“S.T.S.”: Katharine Susannah Prichard
will be interested to hear that the
nightmare of the Haxley circus lady
in her book was realised in plain fact
at Loxton, a river town in S.A. The
leopard (which she considered most _ in-
tractable and dangerous of all the felines
in captivity) had its cage stove in by an ele-
phant which was obliging with a push at a
punt over the Murray, and so got away un-
observed. When it was seen the* little town
went into a state of siege; women and child-
ren under cover, men to the fight. It was a
frightened creature that 50 people surrounded
in Goldsbrough, Mort’s stockyards, but a
very savage one that was netted and noosed
and finally caged.
=is =S * =i=
“0.Q.” : If public hangings were re-insti-
tuted there would be no shortage of audience.
Crowds have been flocking to Addison-street,
Elwood, where Melbourne’s latest crime
occurred, and large numbers of the spectators
arrived in expensive limousines. One enter-
prising householder, unable to get away on a
week-day, took along his wife and family of
four, including an infant of three, and made
a Sunday picnic of the event.
# * * *
“Telopea” : A couple of lifetimes will span
the whole of Australian history, as we know
it. A Tasmanian legislator who can look
back three-quarters of a century recalls that,
as a boy of seven, he was taken to an
old lady who later died in a Derwent Valley
township when she was nearing the century.
She was in the First Fleet, the young wife of
a marine, and claimed to have been the first
woman ashore in N.S.W. It would be inter-
esting to know if there is any other living
person who has held speech with a First
Fleeter.
* * * *
“S.T.S.” : South Aus.. is trying another
step towards religious unity. At the end of
the century all the branches of Wesleyans
(urged on by Chief Justice Way) combined
as a united Methodist Church. Now it is
thought that the differences between them,
the Congregationalists and the Presbyterians
are slight enough to be broken down. The
first step was a recent Union Sunday, at
which more than 50 preachers in and about
Adelaide exchanged pulpits.
Hs ❖ ❖ *
“Runa”: If anyone should be thankful for
the loud-speaker it is the street orator. I
listened to a Nationalist at King’s Cross,
Sydney, orating on behalf of Dauny Levy.
Just in front of the lorry on which he
stood were tw T o individuals who had evidently
come to give the speaker a bad time. They
did their best, too, bellowing and vociferat-
ing till they were red and furious as well
as hoarse, but the voice of the Levite rolled
sonorously over their heads, reaching the
outer fringe of listeners, who w r ere unaware
that anyone was trying to interrupt. About
nine o’clock the noisy pair, tired of bawling
insults at the imperturbable instrument
above them, gave up and departed, pre-
sumably in quest of beer.
THE LIMIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Plus-fours are all very well for golfers, a breed
apart, but on ordinary shanks, and worn in the
street, they deserve nothing but derision and ostra-
cism. Shaggy, shapeless, uncomfortable, expensive,
grotesque, they represent the greatest sartorial
atrocity of the age.”— “Age.”
Leave them to gents, who, armed with clubs,
meander
Around our grassy braes and bunkered
banks!
What “strides” have ever raised the artist's
dander
Like these, the worst of Fashion’s freaks
and pranks?
How vilely human symmetry they slander,
How ill they sit on ordinary shanks!
Leave them to golfers. Clearly it’s denied
them
To realise what frights they look inside them.
Togas and doublets, gabardines and so on,
Loincloths and Afghan coats with sheep-
skin quilts,
Serapes of the sort that greasers throw on,
Sm< >ks such as shepherds still affect in
vVilts,
jc frames will all be reckoned com me il
fan, on,
And + lieWs a word p’r’aps to be said for
kilts.
But these plus-fours! Did ever modern
clothing
I‘rovoke such outburst of aesthetic loathing?
Some Sydney statues. I admit, are. shockers;
Those pants, suggesting drainpipes vast,
and wide,
Might well have sent Greek sculptors off
their rockers.
But could you feature, howsoe’er you
tried,
Our mighty dead arrayed in knickerbockers.
With whole square yards of snace to spare
inside?
Would e’en a lady in a dress-improver
Strike you as more incongruous in the
Louvre ?
Leave then, oh, leave these sore sartorial
trials,
These crude and bifurcated infamies,
To those who prance around with glowing
dials
And smite the tiny balls upon the leas.
What profit lies in protests or denials
With such a string of adjectives as these?
And with what suff’ring must they earn
their guineas,
The luckless chaps who pose outside the
“Minnies” !
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“ Jeames”: Social values in Australia are a
standing source of astonishment to non-Aus-
tralians. Take the case of our recent visitor,
Earl Beauchamp. He is in all respects one
of Britain’s most important people: leader
in the Lords of one of the historic parties,
a former Lord President of the Council, an
ecclesiastical commissioner, Lord Warden of
the Cinque Ports; rich, highly respectable,
and the brother-in-law of a millionaire duke.
Incidentally, as a young man, he was Gov-
ernor of N. S. Wales, and filled the job as
creditably as many older Exes. Yet, socially
speaking, he was ignored, both in Sydney and
Melbourne. No great club, for example, gave
a dinner in his honor. Let us suppose Sir
Dudley de Chair had returned instead of Lord
Beauchamp. It is as certain as anything
can be that the clubs would have competed
to entertain him as a representative English-
man. Yet in his own country De Chair is
as obscure as Beauchamp is eminent. Nine
Britons out of ten know all about Beau-
champ ; not one in ten thousand has ever
heard of De Chair. Apropos, when the Duke
of Roxburgh was out here with the present
King 30 years ago, a lady at Government
House was heard to say to another, “I do
hope Mrs. Blank,” naming a prominent soli-
citor’s wife, “approves of him. It will make
all the difference to him socially.” That
would seem preposterous to a Londoner. To
a Sydneyite of the period it was perfectly
reasonable. It is a relevant phenomenon
that, while a considerable fuss was made
over Sir Otto Niemeyer, Sydney society
didn’t even know when Somerset Maugham,
Gilbert Frankau, Alec Waugh and D. 11.
Lawrence were out here.
ijs * *
“P. Penwiper”: Darlinghurst is witness-
ing something new in the way of newspaper
warfare. For years past a free advertising
sheet has been circulated in the district; but
on a recent week-end two papers, each bear-
ing the same heading, bloomed instead of
one. Inquiries showed that the printer, who
had registered the paper in his own name, had
differences with his partners. After getting rid
of them he proceeded, with the aid of a “hired
journalist” (the phrase is that of the
disgruntled parties), to produce a paper on
his own account. The other people sought
AS USUAL.
“Do you think your father will object to our engagement
“I’m afraid so, dear — it’s become such a habit with him.”
another printer (presumably a hired printer)
and published another issue on their account.
The conflict still rages.
• H? ' * ■’ * *
“Angus O’Cohen”: Along with other mugs
I had undertaken to sell a fire-extin-
guisher in the form of a powder, the efficacy
of which the salesman was expected to de-
monstrate by throwing it on small petrol fires,
lighted from a stock he carried with him. I
soon got fed up with prospects that expected
the stuff to do the work of a full-sized fire
brigade; the last of my experiences was with
a suburban painter whose workshop and
house stood side by side. He scoffed at
my petrol demonstration. “Let’s see you
put out a decent blaze,” he said, and lighted
a large heap of rubbish containing straw,
DEAD SLOW.
“Just because a man and a girl go to supper together they needn’t be fast, need they,
Yvonne?”
“Oh no, no, Monsieur—they may be quite ze contraire.”
paint and waste. A strong nor’-easter was
blowing, and with a mighty “woof” the
flames rose 20ft. I threw all the extinguisher
I had on it without avail. The painter, now
badly scared, asked what we should do.
“Do what you like,” I told _ him. “The
demonstration is over, and it’s your fire
now.” Luck must have been on his side, tor
when I passed next day I noticed that his
house was intact, except for one scorched
wall.
* * * *
“C.Q.” : The possibility of Richard Buckley
being hanged for the murder of bank-
manager Berriman is remote. The Labor
party is against capital punishment, the
murderer evaded arrest for seven years, and
he is now 67 years of age. When his accom-
plice, Angus Murray, was hanged an orgy of
public emotion broke out. Thousands knelt
in the rain outside the walls of the Mel-
bourne gaol praying and singing hymns,
while speakers passionately harangued the
crowd. It is unlikely that the present Gov-
ernment will run the risk of a repetition of
that scene.
* * * *
“Uramao”: A nice little question of pro-
perty rights is involved in the action of a
monumental mason in a North Otago no-
license town who seized and removed a
tombstone from a grave, the widower who
had ordered this tribute to his wife’s memory
having neglected to settle the bill. The
widower consulted his lawyer and was advised
that a suit for trespass would lie. Pending
court proceedings, the ownership of the
tombstone remains unsettled.
* «K *
“O’Toole” : A literary lady of my acquaint-
ance had her flat at Coogee burgled recently
and nine quid stolen, amongst other things.
So she bought a re-
volver to protect her-
self. A week later
the flat was burgled
again during the
occupier’s absence.
The cupboard was
pretty bare this
time; almost the
only portable article
of value the lady
had left was the
new shooting-iron.
It went.
* ❖
“Old Unionist.”:
Stacks of . wage-
earners beside Jack
Hobbs (8.26/11/’3O)
are uncompromis-
ingly hostile to the
idea of Sunday work
and demand that
their scruples shall
be respected. I
know a Sydney
paper - seller who
wouldn’t think of
selling a Sunday
paper. The Tram-
way Department has
a list of employees
wh o are excused
from work on the
Sabbath because of
their conscientious
objections thereto,
or even from work
on the Saturday if
they are strict Jews
or rigid Seventh Day
Adventists. The
same principle is
observed in many
seven - days - a - week
utilities. But there
was a Jewish rail-
wayman who crashed
for dissimulation.
Some interfering
person reported that
the scruples which
prevented Abie from
engaging in trans-
port activities on
Saturday afternoon
didn’t restrain him from clerking for a book-
maker, and the sack followed the disclosure.
He ❖ *
“Trevdee”: A thing that always puzzled
me as a child was why Father Christmas
should prowl around without his missus.
Here was a man of mellow years, fanati-
cally fond of children, who spent hundreds
of hours and pounds amongst the little folk,
yet to all appearances he was a bachelor.
And, apart from a queer persistence in wear-
ing a heavy white beard and a thick red coat
in the middle of a heat wave each year, he
was apparently a sane, sober, jolly old chap
who should have been married years ago.
There was a new departure the other day
in Melbourne when there stepped from a
“mystery van” into the street no less a per-
son than Mother Christmas! She and Dad
soon joined forces and did the rounds to-
gether. Nobody asked where Mum had been
all these years, so I suppose it’s no use my
doing it!
* * * *
“X.S.”: When a bench of magistrates in
a Melbourne suburban court ruled that a
man could not represent a youth charged
with stealing a bike because he happened
to be the defendant’s dad, a number
of eminent authorities believed that the Law
THESE CARELESS TRADESMEN
“It’s disgraceful the way Jim’s tailor sews the buttons. This is the FIFTH time I’ve
had to sew this one on.”
had once more flapped its ears. As a matter
of fact, the J’s.P. were right. An accused
can only be represented by himself or a
qualified gent. one. If he happens to be a
minor he is sued through a next friend, who
automatically becomes the defendant. A
father can, however, sit beside his son and,
advise him what to say.
ij: * * H*
“Fitzwilliam”: There are two good
reasons why maintenance confinees, as
the prison regulations delicately call
them, should not take advantage of the
Bankruptcy law (B. 3/12/’3O). One
is that the court fees charged on even
a small bankruptcy under the present Com-
monwealth Act amount to £B, apart from
any solicitor’s costs; not many confinees
have such a sum. The other reason is that
a bankrupt is not released from any liability
under a maintenance or affiliation order,
$
“Con Tango”: Paper money has come into
such universal circulation nowadays that it
is curious to recall that the one-pound note
is a comparatively modern device. The first
one I ever encountered was in Australia;
there were no such things in England when
I was a boy, though I believe Scottish banks
issued them. Even in South Africa, scarce
as negotiable currency was 40 years ago
there were no pound notes, though for some
mysterious reason there were £4 as well as
£5 ones. The smallest paper money, and
quite the filthiest, I ever remember to have
handled was in Mauritius, in the form of
5-rupee notes. Bank of England notes had
a crisp and crackling feel about them that
seems altogether lacking in the paper money
of these days.
* * * *
“Zozimus”: The car thief is getting so
bold as well as resourceful that it is little
use “queering” the old ’bus nowadays. The
professional always carries a supply of tools,
insulated wire, and even a few sparking-plugs,
in order to effect quick repairs and so defeat
any anti-theft device. A pessimistic friend
of mine, who has been bitten once or twice,
decided to take no risks when _ he had to
leave his car in the street during a lodge
meeting. He took off a back wheel and
trundled it into the hall with him—and not
wholly as a joke either. When he came out.
his car was gone, the necessary wheel having
been pinched from another car near by!
“C A B ” : The abandonment of Duntroon
has been associated with many a P^ rl “ a ® e
to the lonely grave on the mounhain
looking the college, where its founder
Major-General Bridges, who fell in Gallipoli,
sleeps. On the last day ?f residence JLord
Somers unveiled a memorial ,
historic church of St. •f, ohn rn f,
where Bridges worshipped. The coliection
of funds for the tablet was started in EgJPt
by officers of Bridges’s division the 1 irst,
the idea being to have the tablet m the col-
lege chapel; but the chapel was never built.
“S T S.” • The Gorge, Adelaide’s favorite
picnic run for motors, has been the scene
of another tragedy. With an easy grade, a
•perfect surface and continuous fencing it
is absolutely safe—as long as a drivers
attention is fixed on his job. To a careless
or sleepy driver the 13 miles of incessant
bends are a death-trap. The latest victim
was found at daybreak, dead m the
seat of a 3-ton lorry smouldeung in
the river bed. He had come from the
distant Murray in the evening, taken the
Gorge in the dark, failed to clear a bend, and
crashed through the guard-fence into the
Torrens. , *
“Oxmead”: One of the latest batch of
Rhodes Scholars is 23, and a qualified medi-
cal man. Of course this is quite m accord
with the letter of the bequest; just as
clearly it clashes with the spirit of it. The
prize Rhodes offered was for boys growing to
manhood; it goes nowadays to grown men.
They may get more out of Oxford, and
Oxford may get more out of them, but the
last thing Rhodes contemplated was that they
should become a class apart, as they are
becoming. Boys leave English public schools
at 18 or 19 —they cannot stay after 1!>;
the average Oxford undergraduate is a bit
under or over that. The average Australian
Rhodes Scholar is at least 21, and his com-
petitors, either in the schools or on the
playing fields, regard that as giving him an
unfair advantage. It does, too.
* hj * *
“Centurion” : There was a time when the
British Army officer was conspicuous among
all others of’ his kind by reason of tbe “Sam
Browne” belt worn with the field-service uni-
form. Looking at a photograph of European
and American officers at the Olympia Horse
Show, I noticed that all but one or two who
wore their “pretties” mounted the old fami-
liar belt. The Great War no doubt brought
it into fashion, the outlanders finding that
the field-service equipment of the Briton with
his wide experience of active service was
eminently practicable. Colonel Sam Browne,
who orginated the equipment and had it
adopted by the Indian and British forces,
borrowed the idea in his turn from the
Pathan tribes of the Indian n.-w. frontier,
who have been wearing the harness from
time immemorial.
:jc sj: ❖
“Ex-Englishman”: Spruce beer and birch
wine were capital restoratives 50 years ago,
no doubt (B. 5/11/’3O), but how much of
this was due to the tree and how much to
the liquor it was steeped in? I. too, can
remember that in my infancy nearly every-
thing that grows could be utilised as a basis
for a drink. If it was called tea, as with
nettles or dandelions, it became a soft drink.
But if it was called wine, as with ginger
or elderberry, a prodigious quantity of good
brandy -went into the barrel —to “make it
keep,” of course. Our ancestors expected
everything to have a kick in it. A second-
grade wine called “cooking sherry” was kept
for brisking-up sauces; and “trifle” was so
liberally dosed as to be frankly called “tipsy
cake” instead.
* * * *
“Legatus”: Once in a Avhile I read that
Jones or Brown or somebody who is by
way of being an acquaintance has accepted
the position of Consul for Ruritaria or
Parazuela in Sydbourne, or mavbn of Vice-
Consul for some more important realm. And
as often I am sure to hear other acquaint-
ances of the new officebearer say that
Brown or Jones has no interest in Ruri-
zuela or whatever it is, and doesn’t know
a word of the language, and Avouldn’t recog-
nise a Paritarian if he saw one, and must
be going off his chump to accept such a
job, even if there is no work attached to it.
The explanation, I suppose, is simple enough.
Of course there are consulates where there
is, plenty of work to be done, and where
large responsibilities have to be shouldered,
but the tin-pot appointments are useful to
the recipients because they carry with them
the right of entry by the early door to a
Governor’s levee and similar functions.
There is some kind of vague importance, too,
attaching to the accredited representative
of a foreign country, however little repre-
sentation it needs in this part of the world.
It may be useful in business, like a handle
to a company-promoter’s name. I should
like to know what goes on behind the scenes
before some of these appointments are
gazetted.
A PORTRAIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She is so like so many lovely things:
Her narrow hands
Are phrases of fair music as they float
Upon her billowy skirt, or songbirds’ wings
New come from gardens of white fairylands
To brush her throat.
She is so like cool thoughts of forest shade.
Her silken hair
Is dark and fragrant as a branch of pine.
Her eyes, quite wistful and quite unafraid,
Are elfin pools of grey from Otherwhere
In starry shine.
She is so like a .silver leaping flame
F'or dainty mirth.
Folly she skims with touch ironical,
And, moving through the tangles of life’s
game
Clear-eyed, she sees the blindfold folk of
earth,
And loves them all.
She is so like so many lovely things,
Passionate, pure.
Her voice low-pitched in gentleness com-
mands,
Her forehead calm with sweet conjecturings,
The love of all her lovers held secure
In her fine hands.
VICTORIA.
ELSIE COLE.


•firwro-g
’Si!®;:
f
ISIS
sssiisg:
W;
HI
■ ■
'
lilted
ssss
jijijjilißjjiSSlijililijSiinSiiiii!;:
V
.
will ms
D
iSSi"!!
gar
‘ RUB
..
U
Ill®
V
tffe
■)WI
:
*
Si
H
5§5
=sx
■
m
\
t
/
IH dl


LAST WEEK. Lend—and Lend Quickly
The Commonwealth Cash and Conversion Loan closes on Monday, 15 th December, and all good patriots who would come to the aid
of their country must act quickly.
We cannot expect other nations to lend us money if we will not lend money to ourselves.
It is up to Australians to rise to the occasion and establish faith in Australia by showing faith in their own country.
Bonds or Stock may be applied for through any Bank, Money Order Post Office or Sharebroker.
Loan closing 15th December.
6 per cent, for 2 years.
5| per cent, for 10 years.
5£ per cent, for 20 years.
BUY A BOND TO-DAY.
J. A. LYONS, Acting Treasurer.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Isaac Isaacs must feel pretty lonely some-
times. Of the men in his rank in the Fed-
eral Convention only Josiah Symon, of S.
Aus., is left: Quick, Peacock, Carruthers and
two or three more, still living, were a few
paces behind. Of the men with whom he
first sat on the Bench not one remains. Even
the names of most of his colleagues in his
first Ministry (1893) are forgotten: only
one was known to this generation—Agar
Wynne. But when George Turner took over
from Paterson, Isaacs remained with the
new leader, and Peacock was brought in; to-
day, 36 years later, Peacock is content to be
Speaker and Isaacs to be Governor-General;
each with a well-lined easy-chair to doze in.
Only one other of their colleagues is left
(so far as The Bulletin knows) —“Bob”
Best. His luck in politics deserted him long
ago.
Isaac Isaacs was a very dark, sleek, well-
tailored young Hebrew in the days of the
Convention that framed our Federal Con-
stitution ; and you always felt a suspicion
that he was looking around for the spot-
light. He and Higgins were coupled in those
days, “Higgins and Isaacs”; but by the
time they reached the High Court Bench in
1906 it was “Isaacs and Higgins.” Isaacs
loved the purple patch in his earlier and
middle Parliamentary life. The smaller
States were fighting for a better hand. . They
had, they pleaded, to be protected against
the big States, and they had just put up a
Tasmanian to make a further demand. “You
ask for a shield,” exclaimed Isaacs, “but you
grasp a sword.” Old Graham Berry, an
extinct volcano by this time, used to look
admiringly back at Isaacs; Trenwith, the
Victorian “tribune of the people,” also in
that distinguished convention, never seemed
quite so sure of his brilliant Liberal col-
league.
Peacock, Prendergast and Toutcher are the
only members of Vic. Assembly who were
there when Isaacs, the new G.-G., was
Attorney-General in two Governments under
George Turner. Peacock was in both those
Cabinets, and the pair, with Turner, were
delegates at the Federal Convention (1897-
98) which drafted the Commonwealth Bill.
The fathers of Isaacs and Peacock were
both tailors.
A fine all-round man was T. N. Stephens,
just dead in Adelaide at 81. He became a
civil servant in 1864,. and during half a. cen-
tury of work was Under-Treasurer, president
of the Marine Board and Collector of Cus-
toms ; in the last-named office he materially
helped Kingston to frame the first Common-
wealth tariff. He was so sound a musician
that the University of Adelaide put him on
its faculty; and as that rare thing a male
croquet player he could beat all of the sex
that usually monopolises the game.
Vic. Premier Hogan, who has the repu
tation of always standing by a friend, fought
hard to have John Kean, a Labor organiser
of the moderate type, appointed a State
Savings Bank Commissioner, but a majority
of the Cabinet was against him and Bob
Itoss was selected. Ross’s claims are in no
way inferior to Kean’s; he is counted one of
Labor’s intellectuals.
It is unlikely that Priminister Scullin will
use the honorary degree of doctor of laws
conferred on him in Dublin the other day.
When Trinity College bestowed the same
honorary degree on W. H. Irvine, Vic.’s pre-
sent C. J., in 1904 some of the dailies started to
call him Doctor, until he let it be known
that he preferred to go without the prefix.
Others have been known to make the most of it.
Glowrey is the latest to become a party of
one (C.P.P.) in the Vic. Assembly and has
been given a small room so that he may
commune with himself. Long ago Prender-
gast, who collects rare crockeryware and
other items of art, had a cabin reserved for
himself, and Gray and Wettenhall have man-
aged to wangle a similar concession. In the
old days Dicky Richardson and blind Malcolm
McKenzie had private corners. All Assembly
members are luckier nowadays than their
predecessors, as there are stenographers and
typists to help them with letters to con-
stituents.
When he was a Sydney union official the
late Mick Connington, M.L.C., had tremen-
dous responsibilities on his shoulders. He
was secretary of the well-organised Trolly
and Draymen’s Union at a time when most
industrial transport was by horse vehicle.
Scarcely a strike could occur without some
of Mick’s members, reluctantly or otherwise,
being dragged into it. Connington worked
hard and successfully for the settlement of
scores of disputes. He was that rare type
of union secretary who wins the respect of
employers without forfeiting the trust and
regard of unionists. Always a pro-
found believer in arbitration, he ended
by becoming an industrial advocate. As an
M.L.C. he made a name for reasoned argu-
ment on the rare occasions when he spoke
in the House that Lang is trying to abolish.
Walter Nairn, M.H.R. for Perth, was a
newspaper man before he took to the law.
He started his journalistic career as a reader
on the long deceased Perth “Morning H'erald”
just before Federation became a live issue
in politics. A brother, Will Nairn, who is
one of Penfolds’ managers, sat for a couple
of terms in the State Assembly, a cheerful
and affable soul who would certainly have
won promotion if he had stayed in Parlia-
ment. Both are ready speakers.
Hyman Goulston was the venerable
Hebrew ex-merchant whose demise was noted
on this page a fortnight ago; in the para-
graph his front name was wrongly given as
John.
THE NEW GOVERNOR-GENERAL.
On the left as Low saw him 20 years ago; on the right.as Autori, the Italian singer-
artist, 'pictured him for The Bulletin a few years ago; in the centre as Frith
saw him last week.
Captain James H'. Watson, that remark-
able delver into Australian history, has just
passed his 89th milestone. The veteran still
attends the offices of the Australian Histori-
cal Society every day as its research
secretary. Watson was a member of the
Beard, Watson furnishing firm, and up to 30
years ago took an active interest in military
matters.
S.A.’s new choice for Rhodes Scholar is
a younger brother of caricaturist Kerwin
Maegraith. Dr. Brian Maegraith is just
taking, at 23, a brilliant medical degree at
Adelaide University, and will do house-sur-
geon work till he leaves; as a sideline he
writes papers on astronomy and on the
aborigine, whom he has studied at close
quarters.
Lang’s Minister for
Lands is always Jack
—Jack Tully; he has
been Jack ever since he
played first-grade foot-
ball for Western Suburbs
(Sydney). He was born
on the land, but hopped
off it as soon as he could
get into the Public Ser-
vice ; he grew up in the
Registrar - General’s de-
partment. tie is large,
burly and genial, makes a
lively speech, and has got
a firm hold on Goulburn.
With the death of Mrs.
Elizabeth Palmer, of
Wagga, a link with the
Tichborne case snapped.
Mrs. Palmer was a
bridesmaid at the wed-
ding of the Claimant,
otherwise Thomas Castro
or Arthur Orton, to her
aunt, Ann Briant. For
many years there stood
in the paddock of the
Wagga police station a
tree on which the impos-
tor had carved the ini-
tials “R.D.T.”
Since Lindsay McCle-
land took over the job of
manager of Yic. Railway
Commissioner Clapp’s
dining-car dep 6 t in
November, 1920, he has
fed something like a million and a half
hungry travellers. Besides the regular
dining-car work he overlooks the baking of
all the railway raisin-bread and pies. He
catered with characteristic thoroughness for
the big Reso. party to Central Australia in
1927.
JACK TULLY,
N.S.W. Minister for Lands.
• Artist Elioth Gruner is visiting his native
Maoriland and enjoying himself, what with
camping and painting. He was born at
Gisborne, Poverty Bay, 48 years ago, and
brought to Australia a year later. A fellow-
townie is Mary Blair, artist and writer of
“Kowliai Blossoms” and “By Pacific Waters.”
Mrs. Miller, the plucky Australian air-
woman who was almost given up for lost in
an attempt to fly a decrepit machine be-
tween Havana (Cuba) and Miami, is the
wife of Keith Miller, of Melbourne “Weekly
Times.” She sold vacuum-cleaners from door
to door to obtain the wherewithal to get to
England, and returned with Captain Lan-
caster as the first woman to fly to Australia.
In the United States she has made her mark
as a champion amongst feminine fliers, lower-
ing the record for women from east to west
of that continent. She is quite a tiny woman,
all nerves and wire.
Dr. Espie Dods, for 29 years Government
Medical Officer in Brisbane, crossed the
Divide last week at 56. He was a keen
military medico, and first smelt powder in
tlie Boer War of 30 years ago as M.O. of the
Ist Queensland M.I. One of his feats was
the saving of a desperately-wounded officer
who could not be carried in the waggons
over the rough veldt. He was lodged in a
neighboring farmhouse, and, the necessary
leave having been obtained, Dods stayed with
him and nursed him back to health. The
farm was several times visited by Boer
patrols, but these made no attempt to inter-
fere with the doctor, some of them, indeed,
becoming patients. Turning out again in
the Big Argument, Dods did notable work
in France, as the bestowal of a D.S.O. and
M.C. testified.
“F. 0.”: Latham’s comment on Major
Casey’s resignation of the job of political
liaison officer in London contained more
truth than most official
valedictories: “He has
special qualifications for
the work he has been
doing; it will be very
difficult to replace him.”
Casey had literally every
single qualification for
the little-advertised but
highly important work he
has been doing for the
past five years. As a son
of the late R. G. Casey,
who owned some good
horses in Melbourne to-
wards the end of last
century, and a member of
the Melbourne and Union
(Sydney) clubs, he knows
most of the Australians
who visit London. He
enjoys another kind of
standing through having
collected a D.S.O. and
M.C. in the war. He
married “Plevna” Ryan’s
only daughter, and her
brilliant soldier brother
Rupert, who was Deputy
High Commissioner on
the Rhine, married the
only daughter of the Earl
of Erroll, whose off-
spring’s interests are
divided about equally be-
tween the Army and the
Diplomatic Service. So
Casey went to the Foreign
office with a strong
family pull, and his
prestige increased with every year he
stayed there. His manners are as demo-
cratic as they are attractive —as a result of
which he is extremely popular in Fleet-street
—and he has great organising ability. Alto-
gether a rare specimen, and a credit to the
country that produced him.
Died last week at Randwick Military os-
pital Jack Abraham, one of the dispensers
of the establishment —another is his brother
Wal —and an old boy of the Sydney Gram-
mar School. A lovable character, who will
be greatly missed, not only by his tellow-
Diggers but by the medical and surgical
staff, he was the eldest son of the late >J. ss.
Abraham, for many years one of Sydney s
leading chemists.
For 51 years George Meudell, of Mel-
bourne, who must be almost The Bulletin's
oldest contributor, has been collecting pros-
pectuses, newspaper-cuttings about boomsters
and busters, and books about oil and other
things that some people make money out or.
But the hoard has ceased to interest him, and
it will pass into other hands soon —if any
ether hands reach out for it.
“Tite Street”: It is odd to see in the
cables that Somerset Maugham has been
attacking London’s Bright Young Things for
effeminacy. He is a most ladylike and
exquisitely-clothed little genius himself. I
cherish the memory of an engaging picture
of him in a Piccadilly haberdasher’s shop
fluttering about a tie-counter with a
friend; they looked like a pair of radiant
birds. The leading Bright Young Things, on
the other hand, are anything but ladylike,
whatever their sex may be. The most ela-
borately dressed of them is Osbert Sitwell,
the novelist and poet. But he is a muscular
six-footer, with a soldier’s carriage and a
strikingly masculine face and voice. Most of
the others behave like the Mohawks rather
than the Jane Austens of a previous age.
They are a robust and long-lived stock
on the Snowy River. Last week Mrs. John
Ingram, of Delegate, died at 86; her husband
passed over 20 years ago at the same age.
His sisters, Mrs. Marriott, of Delegate (98),
and Mrs. Stephenson, of Bombala (92), were
both at the funeral. Mrs. Ingram reared
12 children, Mrs. Stephenson nine; a third
sister, Mrs. Elton, of Bombala, who died
18 months ago at 88, was the mother of 16.
Desmond Fitzgerald, the Free State
Minister for Defence, who showed Pri-
minister Scullin round in Dublin, has
been bear-leading distinguished visitors
since he first became a Minister under
Cosgrave eight years ago. He is in
his early forties, dark, good-looking, a poet
of considerable distinction, and very English
in voice and manner. He was educated at
St. Augustine’s, Ramsgate, a- school run by
the Benedictines, which has had many Aus-
tralians amongst its scholars. _ Fitzgerald,
like his chief and most of his colleagues,
fought against the English during “the cold-
ness,” but he has nothing but praise for the
English now. “They have kept every promise
they made us,” he says, and his fellow-
Ministers say the same.
“Whitehall”: Richard Cripps, K..C., who
succeeded J. B. Melville, K.C., as Solicitor-
General in the British Labor Government
last month, belongs to a family whose mem-
bers move in widely different political and
social circles. Lord Parmoor, his father, is
the nearest thing to a Red they have ever
had in the House of Lords and on the Privy
Council Bench. He is a mild-mannered,
white-haired, feminine-featured _ little wisp
of a man whose subversive opinions rouse
stern Tories such as Lord Carson to a state
of frenzy. Despite the fact that he is a
Labor peer the Prince likes him, and he is
a member of the only club the King ever
uses. The new Solicitor-General is a
Liberal: he is best known at the Bar as
a churchman and as the author of “Cripps
on Church and Clergy.” He is a stout,
solemn little man whose wildest dissipations
are said to be diocesan meetings. Utterly
unlike both is the heir to the Parmoor peer-
age, “Freddie” Cripps. He. is a handsome,
soldierly-looking man-about-town, a leading
light of the Turf Club, a first-class horseman
who hunts in Leicestershire, the husband of
one of the numerous ladies who have divorced
the Duke of Westminster, and one who sedu-
lously avoids churches. Also he is a sup-
porter of the Baldwin party.
“Y.Y.Y.” (Thursday Island) : The “French
Henri” recently mentioned as one of T.l.’s
picturesque identities of the past should
obviously be “French Joe.” His real name
was Joseph Austin; he had escaped from
New Caledonia and landed in New Guinea,
where he lived among the natives for many
years, until Sir William Macgregor had
him removed to Thursday Island. Joe had
served in the Franco-Prussian War, and was
always invited by the men of Thursday
Island garrison to dine with them on Christ-
mas Day, when he would recount his deeds
of prowess and receive a new suit of clothes
for a present. He died a few years ago in
the hospital, reputedly aged 90.
Kingsford Smith has another accomplish
ment besides the one which has earned him
world fame. He is a first-class performer on
the ukulele, and has to perfection that com-
plicated circular action of the hand which
has been attained by only a few virtuosi of
the instrument. *


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Sons o’ Guns”
Criterion (com. Saturday) .. “Eliza Comes to Stay”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “The Cingalee”
Comedy “Peg o’ My Heart”
Tivoli “By the Sea”
State Movies and Talkies
*
The Town Hall and Baths Committee,
which is the body charged with all civic deci-
sions of an artistic or aesthetic nature in
Melbourne, has decided to rent the lower
hall to an enterprising entrepreneur for a
midget golf-course. There is no truth in the
rumor that the Government has been
approached to let Parliament House garden
during the adjournment for the purposes of a
naakt kultur club.
* * *
The exotic and cosmopolitan nature of
some of Melbourne’s amusements would
hardly be guessed from a perusal of the daily
papers. For instance, there is a large Rus-
sian community in Melbourne which was
driven out of its homeland by the brutality
of the Bolsheviks. Jealous of its national
history, proud of its hoary old traditions and
clinging heroically to everything that recalls
a great and magnificent past, it presents a
spectacle as instructive to the student of
culture as it is interesting to the mere lover
of the strange and the picturesque. Through
the kindness of a lecturer in Russian at the
University, a Bulletin representative was
enabled the other night to watch this alien
community at play—the occasion, a “Rus-
sian Cabaret” at Anzac House.
The national dress of the Russian woman
is beautiful in the extreme, but owing to his
technical ignorance the present writer is
unable to describe it in precise terms. The
national dress of the male, however, is more
easily described. It consists of a coat of
black material with trousers of the same.
Under the coat is an inner coat of black or
white fabric, in which a large Y-shaped or
semi-circular hole is cut, revealing a gar-
ment of dazzling white linen, heavily
starched. This is decorated with a pearl,
diamond or rolled-gold stud, and a stiff white
collar with wings and a black bow tie com-
plete the ensemble. Sometimes the coat has
long pieces dependent at the rear and hang-
ing to the knees. When this is worn the tie
is white. The Russian national food con-
sists of thin squares of a white substance-
smeared with a yellow oily matter, between
every two of which are laid slices Of the
body of a dead pig. Iced cake is also eaten,
washed down with bright sweet fluids of
various colors and named after different fruits,
such as “orange” and “raspberry,” but all
tasting exactly the same. It is also an occa-
sional Russian custom to invite male guests
into a secluded corner where a flask contain-
ing a clear amber liquid is produced. This,
mixed with a little water, induces a feeling
of great respect for the opinions of one’s
MADAME ORFF-SOLCHER, a Broothorn photo, of
the soprano, who lately impressed hearers at a
Melbourne Torm Hall Wagnerian concert.
neighbors, but indulged in to excess brings
about a violent reversal of feeling, said some-
times to end in blows. However, the effect
is temporary.
The Russian national musical instrument
consists of a curious gourd-like object, with
numerous keys, into which the user blows. It
is known as a saxophone. When the sound
of this instrument is heard the- Russians
behave in, a way that can only be described
as peculiar. Each man stands up and
approaches a lady, who also assumes an
upright posture. Without any word being
spoken the man then places his right hand
high up between the lady’s shoulder-blades,
and clasping her right hand in his left begins
to agitate it slowly up aud down. This
motion may or may not be communicated
to the hips, but eventually the feet of both
partners begin to slowly paw the floor, like
a. slow-motion picture of a fowl scratching
the ground. While this is being done the
face gradually assumes the appearance of
catalepsy, until it becomes a complete blank.
The lady, however, may give a semblance of
animation to her face by slightly parting the
lips. In this condition the pair walk slowly
to and fro, weaving an intricate pattern,
whose meaning has unfortunately been lost.
Neither pleasure nor pain nor even interest is
shown in the performance, which is appa-
rently involuntary, as it is repeated every
time the sound of the saxophone is heard. It
is customary for the parties to hold each
other very closely to guard against the
danger of either falling asleep and crashing
to the floor.
Aside from the purely Russian part of the
entertainment there was a delightful variety
programme on the stage. “Sonia of the Golden
Hand” was a one-act sketch. So brilliantly
was it played by D. Ribush (a former pro-
fessional of Riga), and Wasili Trunoff and
Mrs. D. Sandberg, local amateurs, that those
in possession of the plot but without a know-
ledge of Russian were hardly aware it was
being spoken in the native tongue. Followed
a turn which this paper respectfully calls
to the attention of Hugh D. Mclntosh. One
understands it is known as “loobok.” Any-
how, it consisted of a row of screens painted
with the effigies of soldiers with a hole cut
where the head should be. Through these
were thrust the faces of five singers with
that facility for singing in chorus which
seems to be inborn in the Slav. Mrs. Trunova
and Mr. Mitriasov closed the evening with
an old Russian folk song and dance as droll
as anything in a line of Pavlova divertisse-
ments.
* * *
“Peg o’ My Heart” passed away at Mel-
bourne Comedy last week of a certain dis-
temper known as Lack of Audience.
* ¥ ¥
The latest casualty on the theatrical front
in Melbourne is Frank Clewlow, whose ser-
vices as director have been dispensed with
by the Repertory Society. The Reps have
been living from hand to mouth ever since
their unfortunate alliance -with the Taits.
Clewlow did good work in infusing modern
ideas into the concern, and his scheme for
establishing a theatre in the metropolitan
area would have sounded less grandiose
perhaps in happier times. The society has
also had to meet the competition of Gregan
McMahon, whose shows at. the Bijou hau
an unfortunate habit of opening on the same
night as the Repertory plays, the coinci-
dence only serving to show that there were
not enough patrons of the intellectual drama
to go round. Clewlow’s chief gift to the
movement was his demonstration, with the
expert assistance of artist Kimpton, that
plays could be adequately and even beauti-
fully staged at a cost that made the Firm’s
producers believe that the age of miracles
had returned. Clewlow's fine talent is to
be lost in the obscurity of a broadcasting
studio.
.y. y. *
Legitimate theatres are not the only ones
that have taken the count in Melbourne. The
Princess, which, except for a brief Wilkie,
interlude, has been a vocal film centre, has
closed, and the neighboring Palace follows.
The rest of the talkie houses are facing a pro-
blematic future with brave smiles and sink-
ing feelings in their stomachs. Some theatres
which specialise in “long run” pictures have
been conspicuous for the rapidity of their
changes.
$ ¥ $
Fritz Hart's first alfresco symphony
concert of the second season opened
under the happiest auspices, a blue
sky, at Melbourne’s Botanic
Gardens. A crowd estimated
at 20,000 sat upon the grass
or crunched the gravel on the
paths.. Much of Mozart’s
graceful and untroubled Sym-
phony in D (No. 35) reached
the present critic’s ears inex-
tricably mingled, if not always
harmonised with a confec-
tionery seller’s appeals to him
to invest in an oice. That,
however, w T as the only fault
that could be found in the
acoustics of the place. Bach’s
lovely Suite in D major,
Tsrfiaikowsky’s Andante Can-
tabile and other more popular
numbers made up a programme
that -would have been a plea-
sure to listen to anywhere.
Amplifiers helped to overawe
the crickets and convey the
music to the periphery of the
immense crowd.
* * *
“The Cingalee” is in its last
days at Melbourne Royal,
where “The House that Jack
Built” is in course of prepara-
tion behind the scenes. The
panto, will have the services
of the great Stigant as Dame
and Nell Taylor, a local dam-
sel who came to the fore in
an amateur performance of
Mrs. Harold Clapp’s late
highly-commended revue, will
principal girl. The boy will
be in the expert hands of
Sadie Gale, and the show pro-
mises to be classed A 1 at the
theatrical Lloyd’s. “Uncle
Tom’s Cabin” is to be the
Christmas attraction at the
King’s. Since the Taliaferro
faded away from the Comedy that theatre
Jms joined the ranks of the unem-
ployed. The management of the State is
inviting’ the public to watch for its panto-
mimette, “Cinderella.”
# #
The Tennant is carrying through a pro-
gramme of Australian one-acters at the Com-
munity, Sydney. So far about a dozen bud-
ding playwrights have seen their works aired,
and there are some 20 more to be gone
through before the finals of the competition
are played off on Dec. 20.
* * #
When George Marlow started vaudeville-
revue at the Opera House just as it was
failing at the St. James it looked like an-
other producer gone wrohg. Yet what hap-
pened was simply what often does happen
in theatrics —the St. James show went out;
the Opera House hung on and now draws
its share of silver. Last Saturday night’s
crowd was an impressive answer to those
who believe the legit, is the walking dead.
The prices certainly are low, but then
there are some jolly good pictures at
equally cheap rates. The house was packed,
and the show —a bright, rippling affair with-
out hitches —justified the attendance and
clearly delighted it. Those who look to the
theatre for Uplift won’t get it at the Opera
House, but those who seek anaesthetic enter-
tainment will find the goods there all right.
The show is called “Fun of the Fair,” but
any other name would suit it just as well.
It hasn’t any stars, though a lad named
Keith Connelly does some outstanding work,
but it is vastly, better than the St. James
star crowd were in their closing days.
* * *
Though the legit, in Sydney has for six
months or more offered nothing sufficiently
thought-provoking to make a gnat reach for
a wet towel, it continues to hold a few old
reliable forts with the breezier sorts of
theatrical ordnance. A first-rate comedy
party has had a series of fairly sound sue-
cesses at the Cri., where the next change of
bill occurs on Saturday 7, when “Eliza Comes
to Stay,” described as “a delightful English
play by H. V. Esmond” takes the place of
“Possessions.” It to sound
play to pi’ovide a good show, for theie s noth-
ing wrong with the co„ which includes Brad-
ley. Copelin, Harvey Adams and Agnes Doyle,
The other J.C.W. show, “Sons o’ Guns,” will
run on at Her Majesty’s till the 20th. when
“Turned Up” goes on to titillate the Christ-
mas crowds. Curiously enough, though panto,
has threatened to die out altogether during
three or more past seasons, it
will be represented by two
offerings this year. Nat Phil-
lips Is putting on “Beauty and
the Beast” at the Opera
House, with Dorothy Dewar
as principal boy and himself
as Idle Jack. St. James,
where the vaudeville revival
flopped after a wildly promis-
ing beginning, will have the.
-other panto., an Ernest Bolls
version of “Puss in Boots.”
'Pile chief fault that this
Showman has found with
Bolls in the past is that he
is theatrically a bit too gener-
ous, and apparently he hasn’t
been cured. The panto, will
have 20 scenes with a cast of
150 capering through ’em.
Jennie Benson will be prinoi
pal bov. Bert Gilbert the
Dame, Mabel Gibson principal
girl, Stan F'oley Puss, and
Leonard Stephens will be Gil
bert’f/ sparring partner. How-
ard Carr conducts. The show
begins on Boxing Day.
The Palette
The belief that if a crook
was born a couple of hundred
years ago, called himself a
buccaneer, said "Gadzooks"
instead of “Gorblime” and
wore a scarlet sash instead of
a Pelaco shirt, he was some-
how or other romantic, is
shared by flappers, adolescents
of all ages, Hollywood addicts
and, apparently, by Raymond
Lindsay. Raymond Lindsay
has been holding- a show of oils at the Little
Gallery, Melbourne, and it is entirely con-
cerned with the alleged glamor of the life
Piratical. For atmospheric setting there were
a few pistols and other corsair-like impedi-
menta scattered about the exhibition. As an
illustrator Mr. Lindsay follows in the
parental footsteps but lacks his dad’s fresh-
ness of observation. In short, lie has obviously
got his inspiration less from Nature than
trom Norman. In one or two canvases he
shows the beginnings of artistic curiosity,
and as he has great technical dexterity he
may yet live down the disadvantage of being
born the son of a world-famous artist.
The spiritual era of Thea Proctor, of Syd-
ney, some of whose paintings and drawings
are on view at the Macquarie Galleries just
now, belongs to round about the year when
little Victoria Brunswick sallied forth in her
nightie to receive the news that she was a
Queen —an age we associate now witn
lavender, lovely lace and t scented sachets.
Miss Froetor is a mistress of draughtsman-
ship. If, as a respected Australian critic
observed recently, George Lambert was
among the ten greatest masters of the art
of the pencil, the lady shouldn’t have diffi-
culty in finding a place among the greatest
twenty. But superlatives are dangerous and
comparisons not very illuminating. Sufficient
to say that Miss Proctor can draw, that
she has a strong sense of decorative arrange-
ment, and that she does some of her best
work on silk. Outstanding items of the show
are a trio of woodcuts (one in color), some
attractive fan designs, and a galaxy of pencil
drawings. The early-Victorian tendency is
manifested in the artist’s use of color. “A
Red-haired Girl” has locks of the faintest
yellow; “The Red Hat” is pale pink. M'auves,
pinks and cerises make the gayest show in
most of the decorative designs, and an
unusual effect is gained in a very meritorious
design, “The Cascade,” by tinting the water
a faint purple. However, within its ambit,
the color compositions have charm.
Seen in the mass, as they are in the loan
collection on view at the Education Depart-
ment’s gallery in Sydney, George Lambert's
works take a lot of digesting. The arrange-
ment is logical and the lighting good, but
had the artist had a say he would probably
have suppressed at least a hundred of the
151 exhibits. Alifiost certainly he would
have excluded the sketch of a sheep, lent
by Mrs. V. H. Cox, and thus would have
robbed the show of one of the most charac-
teristic and revealing of its features. Lam-
bert was a consummate draughtsman, and
his pencil drawings are uniformly meticulous
in outline. But when it came to color the
painter had a catholic taste in technique.
Most of his portraits —and it was as a por-
traitist that Lambert climbed to fame—are
miracles of photographic fidelity. William
Morris Hughes, for instance, has .been painted
to the last tiny bristle in his bristly mous-
tache. Yet he looks like a mild and medita-
tive statesman —not at all the sort of person
who would tell people to go to blithering
blazes. The famous pictures —“Across the
Blacksoil Plains.” “Important People,”
“The White Glove” and the superbly insou-
ciant self-portrait—emphasise the fact that the
painter was a great master of decorative art.
The paintings of war and other scenes on Gal-
lipoli and in Palestine are, with the exception
perhaps of the magnificently colored impres-
sion of Jerusalem, not in the artist’s most
congenial vein. Two things in the show
that merit the closest study are the still-life,
“Cauliflower aud Egg” and that tremendously
faithful transcript from Australian life
“Weighing the Fleece.” Even if one is going
to be a yard-wide impressionist or a dealer
in vortices it is just as well to know _wliat a
master of technique can get out of his tubes
if he sets himself to mirror the actual. Lam-
bert, like Harold Parker the sculptor, has
discovered a distinctive Australian type of
physiognomy—high cheek-boned, drowsy-
lidded, almost Oriental. It will be found in
“The Bluecoat Boy,” “The Half-back,” in
the pugilist in “Important People,” in
more than half a dozen of the pencil sketches.
The most startling thing in the show is Lam-
bert’s portrait of his own baby, sitting on
its mother’s knee. It lives.
There is not much room for variety m
the titles that coteries of painters and model-
lers can give themselves, and the show by “A
Group of Decorative Artists” at Sydney’s
Grosvenor Galleries raises hopes by its title
that are scarcely fulfilled on inspection. Mar-
garet Preston's nice woodcuts of Australian
flowers certainly are decorative, using the
JENNIE BENSON, who is to [?] principal boy in “Puss
in Boots” at Sydney St. Dames
word in its place, in the jargon of the' studios,
hut the rest is landscape and still-life stuff,
with a few very vigorous pieces of modelling
by Eileen McGrath —all familiar. However,
there are some creditable essays in water-
color. Harry Dangar has evolved a style of
his own, remarkably clear and pellucid, and
his “Victorian Plains,” “After Winter
Rain” and “Little White Bridge” say wlmt
they have to say with commendable direct-
ness. There is merit in a trio of Old World
landscapes by d’Auvergne Boxall. and S.
Woodward Smith shows versatility in a
worth-while flower study and two rather
unusual landscapes. I-Ijs “Wind After Rain”
is particularly convincing.
Also in the Grosvenor Galleries is the one-
man show of the Signor Luigi Nobili, an
Italian artist whose work deserves a lot
more attention than it has been getting.
After several years of study of landscape and
portraiture in his native land (interrupted
1914-18) he came to Australia and fell in
love with Sydney, a most intriguing sweet-
heart for any painter. He has caught the
spirit of the place in many well-balanced and
effective oils, and he paints landscape in
this medium so that it looks like water-
color. Taronga, Narrabeen. Botany Bay,
the Stock Exchange Tower, Fort Macquarie,
Cremorne, Lane Cove, Rivcrview and Bal-
moral have provided material for some strik-
ing studies. An arresting portrait of Briga-
dier-General Goddard is a feature of the dis-
play, and there are other well-drawn heads.
The usual outbreak of art shows likely to
attract the attention of Christmas shoppers
has commenced in Melbourne. The Sedon
Galleries have budded with a display of
foreign and indigenous etchings. Anders
Zorn’s nudes and Lionel Lindsay’s Andalu-
sian landscapes find most favor with the
youthful. James E. Flett is displaying his
taste for bacchanals at his studio in Queen-
street. He continues to pay Norman Lindsay
the tribute of respectful imitation. Large
framed Christmas-cards are available at the
Athenaeum, where eight painters are hang-
ing old and recent work at the invitation of
the management. Rupert Bunny's big
colored cartoons of Parisian life are interest-
ing as records of a pre-war civilisation. John
and William Rowell continue to paint legit,
in a too cameraic manner, and Dora L. Wil-
son’s French pictures are conventional and
mediocre. A less flamboyant Blamire Young
appears to be trying to see Nature through
Max Meldrum’s specs.—“Olinda Vale” almost
comes under the category of a realistic paint-
ing. The show would be hardly worth while
if it were not for a half-dozen quiet water-
colors by Harold Herbert.
“O. McKay M.”: Few of Max Mel-
drum?s pupils have gone far from the
heterodox principles which he taught in
Melbourne, Justus Jorgenson, Archie Col-
quhoun and Colin Colahan, who went
to Paris together and are all now
painting in Melbourne again, have produced
a good deal of work that Meldrum would
admire. Leason has won wide reputation
as a cartoonist and at the same time has not
neglected his brush, and Farmer works hard
at his retreat in the hills. August Cornehls
is painting marsupials for Prof. Wood-Jones.
Shore and Frater have veered away to
modernism. Very few of the Meldrumites of
ten years ago have abandoned painting alto-
gether, a notable exception being Norman
Porter, now lecturer at Sydney University.


T
MUTUA
(%X G.
LIFE SOCIETY
The Balance-sheet and Report for I 930, to be presented to Members at the Annual
Meeting of the Society on the 19th December, will
SHOW the FOLLOWING REMARKABLE GROWTH:-
1920
1925
1930
INCOME
£1,200,487
£2,415,197
— £3,856,035
NEW BUSINESS
1920
1925
1930
£5,901,891
£9,577,699
£12,318,702
1920
1925
1930
ASSETS
£4,125,109
£8,964,782
£16,068,017
ASSURANCES IN FORCE
1920
1925
1930
£17,993,693
£36,749,444
£55,410,055
The T. & G. Mutual Life Society is one of the most Progressive
Life Offices in the British Empire
The Australasian Temperance and General Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited.
J. T. THOMPSON, Esq., Chairman.
R. MCDONALD, Esq.
DIRECTORS:
P. R. SUTHERLAND, Esq.
W. FORSTER WOODS, Esq.
A. R. STEWART, Esq.
Col. C. E. MERRETT, C.8.E., V.D.


The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company, Limited.
Founded 1886.
Assets at 31st December, 1929,
£19,363,198
of which 83% was represented by
Public Securities.
The M.L.C. Charter is constituted to
admit of the issue of policies to meet
the necessities of every class, every age.
every purse. Its range of contracts is
unsurpassed for diversity and liberality,
and the fulfilment of every contract is
guaranteed by the Company’s capital
and its ever-increasing assurance Funds.
CASH SURPLUS in the Ordinary
Branch for the year 1929, £693,145.
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
Head Office: Citizens’ Buildings, Castlereagh
Street and Martin Place, Sydney.
ABBOT FILTERS
PRESSURE AND DRIP.
MttnTwm
ABBOT
Cylinder
GUTHRIDGE,
GEORGE ST,
CAMPERDOWN,
SYDNEY,
Manufacturers
F I
Obtainable at All Stores.
UNFILTERED WATER
contains innumerable
noxious germs, besides being
discolored and unpleasant to
drink.
To ensure purity, see that
all cylinders (the filtering
medium) are branded
“Abbot.” The “Abbot” is
approved by all Boards of
Health.
Manufactured only by
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
INSURE WITH THE
Australian General
Insurance Company Ltd.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
agents wanted where not represented.
The WILDCAT
COUMN
Bank of New South Wales.
To Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 579,482 10 p.c. = 395,158 184,324 3,340,370
1920.. 642,852 10 „ „ 463,839 179,013 3,519,383
1921.. 753,341 124 „ „ 621,801 131,540 3,650,923
1922.. 698,124 10 „ „ 521,609 176,515 3,827,438
1923. . 825,082 10 „ ~ 597,981 227,101 4,054,539
1924.. 846,833 10 „ „ 600,000 246,833 4,301,372
1925.. 979,383 124 „ „ 750,000 229,383 4,530,755
1926. 1,099,559 124 ~ ~ 750,000 349,559 4,880,314
Bank of Western Australia absorbed.
Net reserves taken over, £600,851.. 5,481,165
1927. 1,226,247 124 p.c.= 886,797 339,150 5,820,615
1928. 1,184,943 12* „ „ 936,905 248,038 6,068,653
1929.. 994,825 l.o“ „ „ 750,000 244,825 6,313,478
1930: . 734,699 9J „ „ 731,250 3,449 6,316,927
Chief factors affecting the latest accounts
are (1) the collapse of world prices, which
has lightened local incomes and sent capital
values toppling, and (2) the difficulty of
further Government borrowing abroad. The
first has made profit writing, at best an
estimate, vastly more uncertain than hither-
to, whilst the second has restricted both
the local and overseas credit available for
trade.
More than half the bank’s advances at
Sept. 30 were to customers in the primary
industries, many of whom .are in the pre-
carious position of living upon their capital.
So, in order to “maintain its resources in
a condition to meet any emergency,” the
board decided to make “substantial provi-
sion for contingencies.” That might be taken
to mean that the inner reserves have been
so strongly reinforced that the position of
both depositors and shareholders is as nearly
impregnable as is possible in the circum-
stances.
Moreover, the profits claimed were on a
sterling basis. That is to say, after making
all other provisions considered necessary,
profits were written down 10 p.c. The
declared net result was £260,126 less than the
previous year’s, and £491,548 short of the
peak figure in 1927. It was 9.8 p.c. on paid
capital as against 13.3, 15.8 and 17.3 p.c.
back to 1927, when the W. A. Bank was
welded into the business, and more than
quarter of a million of reserves was put out
of sight. A point was chipped off the last
quarterly div., reducing it to 9 p.c. p.a.,
making 9| p.c. for the year—the Wales
has never paid less) than 9 p.c. since the old
co-partnery closed its existence in 1850.
Following the announcement the price of
the £2O paid shares fell sharply from £32
7s. 6d. to £3O 10s. on the market, and the
whole group of banking stock was affected.
At the lower figure the return is 5.9 p.c.
on a 9 p.c. div. basis; the visible backing
amounts to £36 16s. lid.
Trade and other difficulties again show
up in a comparison of balance-sheet figures :
Notes. Bills, etc. Deposits.
1900 ~ .. £890,837 £2,857,549 £20.987,103
1910 .. ~ 1,281,468 4,061,568 31,808,365
1920 .. .. 832,882 10,049,549 50,068,085
1925 .. .. 535,020 9,093,185 57,070,095
1926 .. .. 592.036 8,719,031 58,587,508
1927 .. .. 673,455 8,857,199 61,554,635
1928 .. .. 633,262 7,200,130 64,514,555
1929 . . .. 584,091 7,284,445 66,056,052
1930 . . . . 527,027 6,068,480 66,238,223
The most encouraging feature there is the
growth of £182,171 in deposits. But the
total was w T cU above recent quarterly aver-
ages ; that and other things suggest that
the improvement may be temporary. The
sharp contraction of £1.215,965 in the bills
item tells of much lighter turnovers. The
drop in the note issue is on account of the
Maoriland business.
But the bank’s greatest service to the
community is as a lender: —
Liquid Assets. Advances. Premises.
1900 .. ..£11,941,272 £15,528,146 £650,000
1910 .. .. 18,578,215 22,628,076 730,000
1920 .. .. 29.289,187 39,425,089 820,000
1925 .. .. 33,972,945 42,676,111 880,000
1926 .. .. 30,181,742 48.017,148 SSO,OOu
1927 .. .. 30,191,678 53,408,839 1,100,000
1928 .. .. 33,713,232 51,353,368 1,225,000
1929 . . . . 27,047,606 59,427,960 1,450,000
1930 . . . . 24,818,897 60,400,511 1,600,000
The amount advanced on Government
account is not ascertainable from the pub-
lished figures. But all the States and the
Federation have run up hefty overdrafts.
Part of the Commonwealth Government’s
short term debt in Australia recently con-
sisted of over £7.000,000 of treasury bills.
Premises are wmrtli a lot more than their
book value, notwithstanding the fall in prices.
Liquids were drawn upon for £2,228,709
net during the year:—
1929. 1930.
Coin, bullion, cash balances
and Australian notes ... £11,180,804 £11,484,190
Other notes . . . . . . 12,245 61,800
, Short-call money . . . . 1,920,000 1,650,000
British treasury bills . . 2,550,000
Government securities . . 7,932,563 4,716,528
Municipal and other securities 394,641 242,886
Bills receivable . . ... 4,839,890 3,399,695
Bank balances .. .. 767,463 713,798
£27,047,606 £24,818,897
The strengthening of London funds is partly
on account of the exchange pool agreement
in connection with national debt obligations.
The bills receivable item reflects the slump
in export values. At the close of accounts
depositors and others could see 34 p.c. of the
amount coming to them in liquids as against
36.5 p.c. and 46.6 p.c. at the two preceding
balances. The bank was holding only
£5 ss. 4d. of the public’s money for every
£1 of its own at Sept. 30. Altogether the
position is a very strong one.
The T. and G.
These are the initials by which the Aus-
tralasian Temperance and General Mutual
Life Assurance Society, Ltd., is know r n
throughout Australia and Maoriland, where
it has been writing policies for the last 53
years:—
Ordinaut Life Department.
Added to Total
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Fund*.
£ £ £ £ £
1920 .. 467,483 82.479 134,572 250,432 2,084,727
1921 .. 556,669 102,501 162,066 292,102 2,376,829
1922 .. 651,114 119,104 176,085 355,925 2.732,754
1923 . . 747,049 130,123 205,018 411,908 3,144,662
1924 .. 846,875 148,245 232,516 465,114 3,609,776
Transferred from Industrial, £19,473. . 3,629,249
1925 .. 955,169 153,991 278,385 522,793 4,152,042
1926 1,067,219 169,010 335,016 563,193 4,715,235
1927 1,200,326 189,528 340,957 669,841 5,385,076
1928 1,330,995 199,420 409,567 722,008 6.107,084
1929 1,480,462 240,043 530,073 710,346 6,817,430
Written off premises, £4900 .. .. 6,812,530
Transferred to contingency fund, £7300. . 6,805,230
1930 1,619,556 262,586 603,373 753,597 7,558,827
Industrial Life Department.
Added to Total
Bept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Fund*. Fund*.
£ £ £ .£ £
1920 .. 733,004 252,254 135,509 345.241 1,845,595
1921 .. 865,852 303,240 141,291 421,321 2,266,916
1922 .. 991,568 343,108 159,501 488,959 2,766,876
1923 .. 1,141,979 386,456 212,235 543,288 3,299.163
1924 .. 1,298,264 437,360 253,094 607,810 3,906,973
Transferred to Ordinary, £19,473 .. 3,887,500
1925 .. 1,460,029 479,447 349,723 630,859 4,518,359
1926 .. 1,633,937 521,034 443,510 669,393 5,187,752
1927 .. 1,823,352 583,528 544,947 694,877 5,882,629
1928 .. 1,981,156 612,063 641,205 727,888 6,610,517
1929 . . 2,143,427 662,369 799,008 682,050 7,292,567
Written off premises, £5lOO .. .. 7,287,467
Transferred to contingency fund, £7700.. 7,279,767
1930 .. 2,224,967 680,186 901,607 643,174 7,922,941
A very encouraging performance considering
the tightness of money, the growth of unem-
ployment, the disturbing influence of politics
and other difficulties. The spring in the year’s
total income (£3,856,036) was £232,147; net
premiums (£2,987,893) accounted for
£148,711 of the increase and interest, etc.
(£868,143) for the balance. The year’s net
increase in the life fund, which stood at
£15,495,985 at Sept. 30, was 7 £1,385,988, or
£6408 lbss than: the previous year’s growth.
A heavier crop of claims, £lO,OOO struck off
the book value of premises and £15,000 trans-
ferred to the contingency reserve (now
£174,586) slowed down the rate of growth.
However, the Actuary figured a larger sur-
plus in each department, despite the, tax-
gatherer’s demand for an extra £19,680, or
£79,237 in all
, . 1920. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Net surplus:—
Ordinary . . £61,165 £313,730 £367,785 £398,612
Industrial . . 33,261 150,200 184,699 190,059
The special 2s. per £lOO assured added to
policy-holders’ bonuses in 1928 has been
repeated each year since. Last year’s distri-
bution totalled £373.159 in the Ordinary and
£164,397 in the Industrial branch.
Though fewer policies were written in the
Ordinary branch, they cost less and the aver-
age per policy (£326) sprang £63 last year.
1920. 1929. 1930.
Policies .. .. 15,791 22,626 20,077
Amount .. .. £2,756,710 £5,954,655 £6,553,128
First premiums . . , 88,798 190,295 218,673
Renewals . . 276,813 898,688 972,306
Interest, etc. . . 101,872 378,042 421,422
The average premium per cent. (£3 Bs. lid.)
was 7s. 4d. lighter, which suggests longer
term business. Excluding taxation, exes,
consumed 18.8 p.c. of the year’s net pre-
miums as against 19, 18.6 and 19.5 p.c. for
the three preceding terms. The year’s first
premiums cost 70.4 p.c. as against 74.9 p.c.
in 1929; that is assuming that new business
is 10 times more expensive than old.
A sharp drop of £499,481 in the amount of
new business (£5,765,574) put on the books
in the Industrial department during the year
is a sign of the times. Still a tight hold was
kept upon exes., Avhicli made off with 36 p.c.
of the net. premiums as against 36.4, 36.9 and
37.9 p.c. back to 1927.
The office assumes that its funds w r ill net
at most Si p.c. Actually the net return on
average funds was £5 6s. 9d. last year as
against £5 Bs. Id. and £5 10s. Id. in 1929
and 1928 respectively. The shrinkage, which,
of course, has reduced the amount available
for bonuses from this source, is due entirely
to extra Government bleeding in the way
of taxation; an evil likely to grow T before
it diminishes. .
Thus the board is now giving more atten-
tion to mortgages, as this next table, which
shows the proportions in which funds aic
invested, clearly illustrates :
1915. 1920. 1927. 1929. 1930.
p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c.
Public securities . . 34.9 04.4 75.5 60.7 62.5
Loans .. .. 43.0 23.2 14.7 22.4 24.6
Freeholds . . .. 16.3 9.8 7.7 9.7 10.6
Cash and sundries . . 5.8 2.6 2.1 2.2 2.0
Last year loans on policies (£4,077,864)
increased by £232,714, and an extra £466,968
was put out on mortgage (£2,826,528) ;
Municipal and public body loans represent
all but £477.363 of the £10,038,482 invested
in public securities. The increase of
£282,646 in the book value of freeholds
(£1.701,772) was on account of the rebuilding
of the Sydney premises, not yet. complete.
Swan Brewery (Perth).
Dividends and
, —Dividend Tax—, Writ-
Pref. ten Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. Ordinary. Off. serves.
£££ _ £ £
Sept.,’23.. 22,608 1500 16 p.c. = 16,232 166 280,331
Premiums on new shares, £21,035.. 301,360
Mar.,’24.. 43,252 1500 16 p.c.= 20,527 10,161 312,430
Sept.,’24.. 27,115 1500 16 „ „ 24,655 5,223 308,167
Mar.,’25.. 44,736 1500 16 ~,,24,655 326.748
Sept.,’2s.. 23,360 1500 16 „ „ 24.655 425 323,528
Mar., ’26.. 46,391 1500 16 „ „ 24,655 10,182 333,582
Sept.,’26.. 28,112 1500 16 „ ~ 24.655 10,076 325,463
Profit on sale of assets, £13,720 .. 339,183
Castlemaine Brewery purchased.
Additions to reserves, £65,846 .. 405,029
Mar., ’27.. 48,871 1500 16 p.c. =26,754 425,646
■Sept.,’27.. 49,990 1500 16 „ „ 27,905 14,000 432,231
Premiums on new shares, £14,957.. 447,188
Emu Brewery purchased.
Additions to reserves, £58,933 .. 506,121
Mar.,’2B.. 61,406 1500 20 p.c. =42,531 523,496
Sept.,’2B.. 63,511 1500 20 „ „ 42,545 542,962
Mar., ’29.. 63,891 1500 20 „ „ 42,545 —562,80 S
Sept.,’29.. 48,761 1500 20 „ „ 42,545 - 567,524
Mar., ’30.. 67.910 1500 20 „,. 42,545 591,389
Sept.,’3o.. 50,277 1500 16 „ „ 34,036 14,741 606,130
For nearly 20 years after Coolgardie started
the rush of thirsty people westward Swan's
divs. ranged from 24 p.c. to 82 p.c. In 1911
the rate dropped to 16 p.c., following the
transfer of £101,450 from reserves to capital,
and has remained steady since; though it
was sweetened with a bonus of 4 p.c. for
81 years after the war and again for the
2l years to March 31 last. Earnings over the
past four years reflect the general progres-
siveness of the State and the prosperity
which has followed the absorption of two old
competitors—Castlemaine in ’26 and Emu
in ’27. The purchases gave the co. practi-
cally a monopoly of the trade in the West,
and' added £124,779 to its visible reserves,
thanks to the market’s high opinion of its
scrip.
The net result for the last half, which was
£1516 better than for the corresponding half
of 1929, is a striking testimony to the way
the trade holds in dull times. After attend-
ing to the pref. requirements, enough w 7 as
earned for the 12 months to Sept. 30 to show
27.4 p.c. on the £425,453 of ord. capital com-
pared with 25.8, 28.6, 23.7 and 21.1 p.c.
back to 1925. Nevertheless the 4 p.c. bonus
was not sent out with the last div. Owing to
the dangerous drift in the national finances,
and the downward trend of incomes and
prices generally nobody is quite sure
what will happen within the next 12 months.
Still, a bonus on gold might help to liven
the output of beer, too; one thing certain
is that taxes will gobble a bigger proportion
of the earnings than formerly.
There is a wide margin between earnings
and distributions. Each pound of paid capital
had the support and assistance of 255. 6d.
of visible reserves at Sept. 30, and the co.'s
own financial structure is very solid. Here is
the position as the published accounts show
it: — , „
Sept.,’2s. Sept.,’29. Sept., 30.
Capital £358,190 £475,454 £475,454
Accounts in credit, etc.* 47,211 97,221 115,267
Other liabilities . . 80,939 96,736 89,354
Freehold and plant .. 663,051 923,305 991,261
Mortgages .. . . 51,988 41,479 41,253
Stocks 62,111 74,072 65,206
Shares in other cos. . . 6,897 111,722 111,722
Book debts . . . . 49,722 120,985 91,951
Cash, etc 2,255 9,417 20,347
goodwill accruing.
Most of the growth of £328,210 in the book
value of freeholds and plant over the last
five years was on account of hotel properties.
These figured at £644,711 at Sept. 30, or
£104,674 less than cost. Shares in other
cos. consist mainly of holdings in Westralian
Glass Manufacturers, and the Emu Co. Castle-
maine’s assets were fused into the Swan busi-
ness. Excluding accounts in credit, which
are probably mostly provisions for contin-
gencies, the more or less liquid surplus
(£129,403, including stocks) was £19,814
lighter than at Sept. 30, 1929. That was due
chiefly to additions to hotel properties.
On the market the fully paid 255. shares,
which fetched 90s. a year ago, are now
priced at 475. The return at that figure is
6.8 p.c. on a 16 p.c. div. basis.
H. M. Leggo and Co., Ltd.
, Dividends Towards
Net Pref. Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £/£>£•
1920.. 10,710 1690 10 p.c. = 7585 1435 19,302
1921.. 1.890 2116 Nil 19,528
Loss.
1922.. 12,836 Nil Nil 32,364
1923.. 6,911 Nil Nil 6911 25,453
1924.. 8,146 2400 Nil 5746 19,707
1925.. 3,867 2400 Nil 1467 18,240
10 p.c.
1926.. 3,968 3000 Nil 968 17,272
1927.. 4,919 3000 Nil 1919 15,353
1928.. 643 Nil Nil 643 14,710
8 p.c.
1929.. 1,195 2400 Nil 15,015
1930.. 352 Nil Nil 15,563
Ever since it was acquired from the
original firm in 1918 this business lias shown
very little in the way of profit. In its first-
two years as a public co. the ords. got 10
p.c.; they have had nothing since, and the
dividends on the profs., which call for only
£2SOO a year, have drifted substantially into
arrears—£S4oo had accumulated at June 80
last.
The co. bought the then 37-year-old fruit-
and vegetable-canning and -preserving busi-
ness of 11. M. Leggo, of Bendigo, in 191 a.
The consideration was £75,845 in 10s. ords.,
of which £20,000 was for goodwill. The
public was offered 30,000 8 p.c. cum.
prefs., which were underwritten by the
Edward Dyason Pty. For the preceding 37
years the business had done well, and its
growth was stimulated by the war-time de-
mand for canned foods. The new co. started
off on the crest of the post-war boom; two
years after flotation came the slump and
the end of the war contracts, and the long-
run of good years was broken by a loss of
£12.836 in 1922.
The business has never properly recovered.
The co.’s troubles have been added to by the
competition of canneries subsidised by the
Government, and run at a loss, though owing
to its varied activities this co. has probably
been less affected than many other canneries.
The co. specialises in tomato products, and
is a large grower of its own fruit and vege-
table supplies at Bendigo. It also manufac-
tures several proprietary lines of groceries.
Last year gross profit (£34.088) was
£4833 higher, but exes. (£33,730) were
£5676 heavier; thus the slip in the net result
was £843. For the fourth time the prefs.
went hungry, and, including their arrears,
the deficit on ord. shareholders’ account
amounted to £24,163. The ords. are all in
private hands; a writing-down of capital
was at one time mentioned, but so far nothing
has been done.
Here is the position as balance-sheet figures
show it: —
1919. 1924. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital . . £93,570 £105,845 £105,845 £105,845
Liabilities . . 37,070 ..5,124 45,306 70,020
Properties .. 7,980 1.0,149 25,579 25,214
Plant etc. .. 8,461 17,181 21,826 21,240
Stocks . . 65,613 73,333 54,373 69,766
Book debts . . 31,733 42,314 44,491 42,870
Other assets .. 014 1,685 1,512 1,361
The outside debt is considerable. At the
close of last accounts there was £50,151 com-
ing to the bank, and £19,869 to sundry credi-
tors ; in all, that was £24,714 greater than
at the previous balance. The increase was
mainly represented by stocks; the item was
£15,393 heavier.
The prefs. have a net tangible backing with
a book-value of £3 6s. Bd. Arrears of divs.
amount to ss. 7d. per share.
Home Provident Association, Ltd.
This co. was formed in Sydney by G. A.
Parrett in 1925 with (lie object of advanc-
ing money on long terms on house properties.
Paid capital at June 30, 1928, had grown to
£111,689, and for the three years to that
date, after satisfying the 8 p.c. prefs., the
ords. received 10 p.c. In addition, the
amount of capital unrepresented by tangible
assets had been reduced to £4992. But the
co. speculated in property at Canberra. The
Canberra boom burst suddenly, with result-
ant chaos. Contracts entered into in good
faith in previous years could not be enforced,
and were cancelled. Also land values out
Queanbeyan w r ay, where the concern has its
Canberra Heights Estate, suffered an
equally sudden collapse.
Much of what the co. had taken into
account as profit in previous years was thus
wuped out. For the 12 months to June 30,
1929, actual trading showed a profit
of £9796, but after allowing for the loss on
contracts rescinded (£5853) the final figure
was £3943, out of which the pref. div. only
could be paid. For the year to June 30 last
trading showed a profit of £2966; but losses
on contracts rescinded (£14,870) and in
terest (£1609) turned the result into a loss
of £13,513, making total intangibles as shown
by the books £14,329. Goodwill (£2108)
was written down £5392 during the year
out of capital receipts.
The question arises as to whether the
assets are now worth their book value. The
probability is that they are not. Freehold land
and buildings appear at £47,867, representing
(Continued on next page.)


Watch Your
Step 1
These are days when a man
may lose the savings of a life-
time.
These are days when a man
may lay the foundations of a
fortune.
The thing is to know. The
‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” has im-
mense data at its disposal and
a staff of specially trained in-
vestigators and accountants.
It will help you to save losses
and make gains.
DECEMBER NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY. 21-
PER ANNUM. 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting ?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
For carrying any type of liquid no pipe can equal
Pioneer Wood Pipe for economy, efficiency and long
trouble-free operation. Pioneer Wood Pipe costs con-
siderably less than metal pipe, it is non-corrosive,
easier and cheaper to handle, transport and lay, and
has proved its extreme efficiency on many important
installations throughout Australia. Write for full
details to The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Burns Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove,
N.S.W.; and at Footseray, Victoria. — Advt.
* $ * *
Bismuth. —We are buyers of Bismuth Concentrates
in any quantity. Write, giving particulars of
quantity available, and send samples to Elliott
Brothers, Limited, Box 494 AA, G.P.0., Sydney.
—Advt.
gfd
g
wm
INFLATE MOTOR TYRE IN Um
Such is the efficiency of the British “RENRUT” Quadruple!
Owing to patented principles this pump, although smaller in
diameter than many other pumps, gives far more air per
stroke, and with much less effort than usual. Every detail
is engineer-designed and flawlessly finished in the finest
British style to give endless service under any conditions.
RENRUT”OUADRUPLE
Patentees and Sole Manufacturers:
WILLIAM TURNER & BRO., LTD.,
EYRE WORKS, SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
If unable to obtain, write to our Factory Representa-
tive: Mr. JOHN ARNOLD. G.P.O. Box 71, Melb.
PRICE,
60/-
With gauge,
6/- extra.
MAKE YOUR WILL!
The making of a Will' and the appointment of a reliable Executor is a
matter demanding the most careful attention of every man and woman
possessing property. , , . . > v
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED,
Acts as
TRUSTEES - EXECUTORS - ATTORNEYS - AGENTS
This old-established Company has had over 44 years’ experience in the
management of all classes of Estates. Unlike an individual, itt cannot
die, and, moreover, it offers its Capital and Assets of over £1,000,000
as security for the protection of clients’ interests.
Our explanatory Booklet, sent free on
request, will interest you. Write now.
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Ass’t Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
cost price with expenditure added. But no
provision appears to have been made for
subsequent depreciation. .
Debtors for loans and land purchases
(£74,936, up £4385) are less charges secured
thereon. Except for whatever contingent
liability may rest on the co. in this connec-
tion, its debts are unusually small, amount-
ing to only £4037 at balance-day. Paid
capital was then £134,856, about £lOO,OOO
of which is ordinary, and the balance 8 p.c.
pref. money.
Property is now very difficult to move, and
instalments of principal and interest on
term sales are growing harder to collect.
Until there is an all-round improvement in
tlie general position the outlook for this co.
is not promising.
Bebarfalds, Ltd.
, Dividends •, Towards
Pref. Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
1927.. 22,288 8,000 8 p.c. = 16,981 4,205
Reserves.
Assets written up, £66,517 .. .. 62,312
1928.. 8,605 8,000 Nil 605 62,917
1929. . 25,764 10,716 5 p.c. = 10,668 4380 67,297
1930.. 7,478 15,960 Nil 58,815
This Sydney co. does a substantial t.-p. busi-
ness in furniture and furnishing drapery.
The public became interested in 1922, when
£lOO,OOO of 8 p.c. pref. capital was. got in
to finance the addition of the drapery sec-
tion. But results have been more or less
disappointing, due largely to the dislocation
and disturbance caused by resumptions in
connection with thewidening of Park-street
and the construction of the City Railway.
Still, the business continued to expand, so
about three years ago the board decided to
put up a more imposing looking headquarters.
To do this and carry - more book debts
£99,500 in 8 p.c. B prefs. was gathered, and
£183,019 was added to the outside debt, lift-
ing it to £282,610 at June 30. But the job
was scarcely out of the contractors’ hands
before economic disturbances had dulled
trading prospects, especially in furniture.
Gross profits for the 12 months to the
close of last accounts (£174,112) sprang
£15,531; but the added expense of trading
from larger premises, heavier interest
charges, bad debts, etc., made off with all
the increase and £18,286 besides. Thus the
net result withered to £7478, or less than
half the combined requirements of both lots
of prefs. So reserves, which benefited by
£66,517 when the book value of the freehold
was written up in 1927, were dipped into for
£8482, reducing them to £58,815, and the
ords. went hungry for the fourth time in the
last eight years—they have averaged only
2.9 p.c.
The heavy floating debt overshadows the
position, which, so far as balance-sheet
figures disclose it, is as follows: —
1927. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital .. .. £312,265 £408,070 £412,895
Overdraft .. I qq cgi ) 142,838 178,013
Sundry creditors j ’ ( 46,313 109,697
Freehold, etc. . . .. 126,306 306,237 336,009
Plant 16,353 21,328 27,787
Stocks 102,356 104,614 110,228
Book debts, etc. .. 195,724 254,099 285,339
Investments .. .. 1,000 1,025 1,000
The overdraft, to which £30,175 was added
last year, is secured by a mortgage on the
freehold, which is also subject to a further
mortgage, the amount of which is not speci-
fied. To represent the year’s net addition
of £93,459 to the debt, there was a net in-
crease of £36,231 in the book value of fixed
assets and of £36,854 in liquids. Thus the
more or less liquid surplus (£112,957, in-
cluding stocks) was £56,605 lighter than at
the previous balance. Much depends upon
the soundness of debtors’ balances, and
whether the bank and other creditors are
likely to want their money in a hurry.
Until the outside debt is substantially
reduced the position of shareholders is un-
certain. There are 100,000 A and 99,500 B
8 p.c. cum. prefs., ranking for capital and
divs. in the order stated, and 212,395 ords.
The’latter are all held privately. The book
value of the net tangible cover for the
A shares is £4 14s. 4d., and for the B’s
£3 14s. Bd. The A’s are on offer at Us.;
there has been no quote for the B’s for some
time.
Roma Ormildah Associated Oil Fields has
acquired a half interest in a New Guinea
area, at present held under license by Aitape
Oilfields. The area, comprising some 1000
acres, is in the Aitape district, on the far
n.-w. coast of the main island of N.G. It
has been thoroughly geologised by the experts
of the Anglo-Persian Oil Co., who have been
12 months on the work under the auspices
of the Federal Government. Their report
states that the indications of oil are the most
extensive “and the most hopeful” yet encoun-
tered in New Guinea. Bore sites are being
selected; and to enable the ground to be
proved shareholder's are offered 10,000
shares of 10s. each. These carry a three-
years’ right to take up another three shares
at par.
* * * *
Fossicking for gold in Tasmania is going
on in various parts of the island, particular
attention being paid to old fields. A big
hydraulicking scheme is under way at
Lefroy, and the Alberton field at Mount Vic-
toria looks promising, chief interest being
centred in new developments in the Ringa-
rooma United, a big producer of gold in the
past. Close to Launceston is the Lisbe field,
which in the early, ’eighties accounted for
over 300,0000 z. of alluvial gold. The origi-
nal source from which this big yield was
derived has never been discovered.
■is * *
Tin-mining in Tasmania is in a bad way;
no fewer than 342 leases were forfeited in
November through non-payment of rents.
These include sections held by Ringarooma
Tin (an English concern) Bell’s Plains, Blue
Tier Weld, Mammoth Tin Areas and Wyni-
ford River. The low price for the metal and
high working costs are the trouble. Con-
signments of tin to Sydney for smelting
(there is no local treatment of the ore since
the scrapping of the Bischoff smelters at
Launceston) now average about 70 tons per
month.
* * * *
Already London is interested enough in the
gold bonus to offer capital for well recom-
mended Westralian shows, and Melbourne
and Adelaide are expected to revive their
interest, too. It is fairly easy to figure how
the big Kalgoorlie, Gwalia and Wiluna com-
panies will fare under the modified bonus
indicated by Federal Caucus, but it is diffi-
cult to calculate its influence on the smaller
fry. However, it should keep the dingo from
the door of such shows .as North Kalgurli,
Golden Butterfly, Mararoa (Cue), several
mines at Meekatharra and others throughout
the State.
:i: * * *
On. a capital of £350,000 London-controlled
Associated Northern (W.A.) has distributed
£743,000 in divs., mostly from the now-worked-
out Oroya shoot, Kalgoorlie. Liquidation value
is estimated to be far in excess of the present
market value of its shares. Principal hold-
ings, apart from £16,000 cash and two dere-
lict mines—one at Kalgoorlie and the other
at Ora Banda —are 25,000 Wilunas and
50,000 Canadian silver-mining shares.
* * Hs *
The proposal to re-treat the residues from
W.A. mining plants has much to recommend
it. With small galvanised-iron vats and port-
able power plants, small parties of ably
directed toilers should do well enough. But
the work will be hard.
* * * *
Yalgoo, a W.A. mining centre that has
been in the doldrums for years, is showing
signs of life again. Rodau and party, after
a few hectic months of dollying specimen, ore,
have crushed 42 tons for 3330 z., and it is
estimated that the tailings contain another
lOOoz. So far, the profitable nature of the
ore has compensated for its limited volume.
* * *
London Australian and General Explora-
tion Co.’s latest accounts show a profit of
£3360 compared with £8658 for the preceding
12 months. The last div. was paid in 1926.
The co. used to dig gold out of mines at
Lawlers (W.A.), but gave up owing to
failing values and high costs. It is now trying
to make a living out of Cornish and Southern
European clay and base-metal ventures.
% * # #
At present the Kalgoorlie mining cos.
collar the whole of the premium on gold, but
tributers want half of that coming from their
workings and are going to law to try to get
it. A test case against the Great Boulder
Proprietary will be heard shortly.
* * * *
Kimberley Petroleum Oil Co. has decided
to wind up. Years ago the co. acquired a
concession in Nor’-Westralia. Boring was
talked of, but nothing worth mentioning was
done, and when the Freney and Oakes-
Durack ventures failed to strike a gusher
the Kimberley Petroleum crowd looked
around for something else. It didn’t succeed.
* * * *
Barytes, of which the S. Aus. annual pro-
duction is about 1969 tons valued at £5907,
is now being recovered in California from
low-grade mill residues. The flotation pro-
cess is used. As normally mined barytes
is handpicked to grade, but the recovery is
very low. Barytes from the Noarlunga mines
has been successfully floated at the Adelaide
School of Mines.
* * * *
Austral Mining Co. (S.A.), which hur-
riedly acquired two wild cats at Edjudina
(W.A.) and subsequently let them go, has
taken interests in two well-backed prospect-
ing ventures. Both have sent expeditions to
Central Aus. to search for gold and any
other mineral of value.
if * * *
Freney Oil Co. (W.A.), which has about
£BOOO left, proposes to put down a bore at
a “fixed price per foot” early in the new
year. Meanwhile it is making inquiries at
Roma and elsewhere as to the best and
cheapest way of getting the work done.
* * # *
The Rhodesian Broken Hill Co., in which
many Australians are interested, is gradually
overcoming its difficulties under general-
manager Stevens, formerly of Risden. The
monthly production is 1600 tons of electro-
lytic zinc at a cost considered to be the
lowest in the world. The mine contains
important vanadium deposits, which help con-
siderably.
* « * *
W. S. Boyd, a graduate in mining at the
Sydney University and a contemporary of
Douglas Mawson, has recently been appointed
managing director of Utah Copper and
Nevada Consolidated, which yield one quar-
ter of the United States production of copper.
# * * *
The world supply of radium is still mono-
polised by Union Miniere, the Belgium eo.
with mines in Belgium Congo. During 1929
it recovered 60 grammes of radium compared
with 42 grammes in 1928, and could greatly
increase its supply. There is little hope of
the South Australian radium mines at Mt.
Paynter and Olary ever supplying more than
Australian requirements, and then only with
an embargo on the importation of radium.
The price is now £13,000 per small gramme.
During 1929 Union Miniere also turned out
700 tons of cobalt and 137,000 tons copper.
It is the world’s biggest producer of the red
metal.
$ $ $ $
Jo’burg metallurgists and assayers are
scoffing at the claims of Professor Bartoli
that his plant will extract more gold than
tire assay indicates there is in the stone.
Bartoli argues that the fire assay process
does not touch gold combined with some
other element. In proof of this he asserts
that ore which, according to fire assay, con-
tained Bdwt. of gold per ton yielded 20dwt.
and more by his process.
* * * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) I reside at Albury ( N.S.W .) and in-
tend prospecting in the district. Where and
how can J obtain a miner's right? Cost?
(2) How do I obtain permission to prospect
on private property? (3) Can the property
owner demand rent and payment -for damages
and how much? (4) Who buys gold in
N.S.W.? —338.
(1) Mining Warden at Albury, or Depart-
ment of Mines, Sydney. Cost, 2s. 6d. for
six months or ss. p.a. from date of issue.
(2) Application may be made by the holder
of a miner’s right for an authority to enter
in terms of Part IV of the Mining Act;
deposit, ss. Or an agreement may be
entered into with the owner of the land in
terms of Section 69 of the Act. (3) If
authority to enter is granted by the Warden,
that officer will fix in open court rent and
compensation to be paid to owner of land.
(4) Most country storekeepers and some
banks; also Frank Hambridge, 22 Bridge-
street ; Electrolytic Refining and Smeltin'’’
Co. of Australia, Ltd., 25 O’Connell-street;
Garrett and Davidson, Ltd., Regent and
George streets.
(1) Whereabouts in Australia is man-
ganese ore mined? (2) Market value? (2)
Sydney buyer? —46l.
(1) Principally in Queensland, N. S.
Wales and Westralia. (2) From £3 per ton
to £lO depending upon grade. (3) Frank
Hambridge, 22 Bridge-street.
What has happened to Amalgamated
Kawarau ( M. L.) ? —437.
Still in existence, but rather at sixes and
sevens. The big dam proved a failure as far
as reducing the water in the river to a work-
able level went, and all hands have been
arguing the best way out ever since.
(1) At its inception, was the Common-
wealth Bank provided with capital? How
much? (2) Gould a bank start without capi-
tal in some form or another, apart from Gov-
ernment guarantee? —ssl.
(1) Parliament originally provided for a
capital of £1,000,000 to be raised by issue
and sale of Government-guaranteed deben-
tures. None were issued. (2) Yes. As
soon as the Commonwealth Bank opened, the
Commonwealth Government deposited over
two millions —funds belonging to various
departments. Moreover, all preliminary exes,
were by statute payable out of consolidated
revenue.
(1) In the event of note inflation _ would
the price of gold increase along with the
increased price of other commodities? (2)
Why is gold still at pre-war price while the
prices of other commodities have increased?
(3) In the event of note inflation, will the
goldminer suffer, and if so why?, —4o2.
(1) Yes. Already there is note inflation
to a very limited extent, and a sovereign
is worth in Australia the Australian pound-
note plus Bor 9 per cent. (2) Gold, being
the standard, cannot fluctuate, any more than
a foot-rule can. (3) As a goldminer, pro-
bably not.
(1) Is the banknote promise to exchange
gold for notes still honored? (2) Would
the Government give pure gold instead of
a sovereign? (3) Madrid exchange is 24
to £1 par; it is now quoted 123 to £l. Does
that mean that I could buy five times as
much as I could ordinarily buy with £1 f
(.4) How much gold is a person allowed to
take out of (a) .Australia, (6) America? —
245
(1) No. (2) It will give neither. (3)
Yes, five times as much in paper. (4) None
from either country; though as an act pr
grace a bank may allow a customer a little
gold—if it has any.
Any formula for calculating redemption
yield on Government or other securities
bought at other than face value? —555.
Approximate formula is as follows: —
C~K
I_l A-K
Where i is the unknown quantity or return
on the investment; jis the nominal yearly rate
of interest per £1 payable on the loan; 0 is
the amount payable on redemption; A is the
purchase price, and K the present value of
C calculated at the rate of interest i. As «
is unknown K must be taken at approximate
value, and involves the use of interest tables
showing present values of £1 at various rates
for any given number of years. For more com-
plete formulae see Chapter VI, Part 1 • Insti-
tute of Actuaries Textbook. The use of
Higg’s interest tables, from which simple
interest and redemption yields on all Com-
monwealth bonds can be ascertained at a
glance, does away with a lot of involved
calculation, and there is less chance of error,
BRIEF ANSWERS.
A.R.W.: (1) Better. (2) and (3) lie
could have to accept interest and principal ir
inflated currency... .J.F.D. : Immaterial whether s
bank holds gold in bullion or coined. Actually most
of the gold received at a mint is put into sovereigns;
but, if wanted in bars, the mint will cast it in that
form. Exports to Europe and America are practically
always in sovereigns; to Asia, often in lOoz,
ingots. .. .G.J.: (1) You might sell through the office
that issued them. There appears to be no other
market. (2) Nobody knows. (3) Purely a gamble.
... .A.H.P.: We see no reason for sacrifice. If any-
thing at all happens it will most likely be a gradual
advance along the road we’re been travelling for years
past... .1.M.J.: If you’re looking for the best results,
you’ll probably get them elsewhere ... .J.0.D.: A
Canadian (Toronto) co.; capital (including capital
or subsidiary cos.), £287,671 ; reserves, £1,382,558.
....Pixie: If you can prove misrepresentation you
may escape. But it is a very hard thing to do.


lO lo 1
it's a
CAPSTAN
I
mm
w,
%
Sll
life,
Wm
:
i
/A
. :
mm
■ '
- y
i
■' y'y
v
4$
S H
imsm


Could you imagine a more timely and welcome gift for any whisky-wise friend than one of these special Dewar’s flagons?
The shape and design are so attractive, so unusual, the lustre of the famous Doulton ware so rich and deep and the
whisky inside is the finest that ever came out of Scotland! There are twelve entirely different patterns to choose from.
Your usual supplier can give you full particulars and will show you the complete range of flagons.
DEWAR’S


Our Servoce Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell’ ,! or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Returned soldier, Vic., who has travelled all over
the world, wants position as companion to gentleman
going abroad.—3o7.
Young man, Q’land, good axeman, wants work of
any sort.—324.
Gentlewoman (N.S.W.) wants position on station
in Q’land or N.S.W. as housekeeper or nurse. Refs.
—349.
Correspondence and law clerk (S.A.), shorthand-
writer and typist, seeks engagement as private
secretary. Exp.-—335.
Widow (40) and daughter (17), S.A., desire
position together, N.Q. or Islands. Adaptable, edu-
cated and smart appearance.—332.
Certified enginedriver-fireman, N.S.W., 20 years*
marine exp., seeks position anywhere.—343.
Carpenter and cabinetmaker (58), Q’land, can
also do painting, fencing, gardening, bookkeeping,
wants job anywhere.—43s.
Will relieve milkman or butcher on station any-
where for a week or tw0.—428.
Young man (30), N.S.W., desires position with
stock and station agent; exp. sheep and wool and
station book-keeping.—422.
Youth (18), Q’land, wants apprenticeship radio
engineering.-—395.
Young man (22), Q’land, wants riding work on
sheep station ; can milk and ki11.—392.
To buy, second-hand, copy of “Facts and Fancies
About Our Son of the Woods,” by Mrs. Hamilton
Grey (1920).—340.
To buy copy of “Beautiful Manly,” by Francis
Myers (1885).—319.
Words of verse containing line “It ain’t the ’oppin’
over ’edges as ’urt the ’orse’s ’ooves.” —347.
By Victorian, position as manager, country boarding-
house or billiard-r00m.—433.
To exchauge books and magazines. List on appli-
cation.—394.
To buy broadsheets, pipes or playbills, printed in
Australia before 1840, and books printed by Robert
Ilowe, Government Printer. —447.
To buy books published in America before 1700,
any kind or condition.—446.
Whereabouts of John Edward Brennan, aged 24,
came to W.A. from Manchester, England, December,
1927, on the Moreton Bay and worked at Katanning
(W.A.). Brother (Q’land) inquiring.—-425.
To buy Wells’s “Outline of History.”—4lo.
Information Sought.
Are fruits, vegetables, poultry, eggs and
home-made cakes sold by a farmer to passing
motorists subject to sales tax? —97l7.
In the ordinary way fruits, vegetables,
poultry and eggs are exempt from sales tax
as primary products, provided they are sold
in their natural form and not processed in
any way. Preserved fruits and preserved
vegetables are subject to tax. Poultry,
dressed, but not cooked, is exempt. Cooked
poultry is taxable, and the same applies
to home-made cakes. All this is subject to
a proviso in the Act that goods manufac-
tured by a person exclusively in his own
home for sale, the total value of whose aver-
age yearly sales is not, or would not be, in
the opinion of the Commissioner, in excess of
£5OO, are not taxable.
Respective dimensions of RlOl and Graf
Zeppelin?— 7o.
R 101; Length, 777 ft.; diameter, 131 ft.
Sin.; height, 140 ft.; approx, capacity,
5.500,000 cubic feet; gross lift, 165 tons;
maximum horse-power, 2925 tons; number
of engines, 5. Graf Zeppelin : Length, 776 ft.;
diameter, 100 ft.; height, 113 ft.; approx,
capacity, 3,708,000 cubic feet; gross lift, 129
tons; maximum horsepower, 2650; number
of engines, 5.
Has a N.S.W. municipal council power
to stop a person from painting an advertise-
ment on the side of his house?. —8.
Yes; under the Local Government Act it
has power to “license, prevent or prohibit”
the exhibition of any “sign, notice, device
or representation in the nature of an adver-
tisement visible from any public place or
public reserve or from any navigable water."
(1) What is the meaning of voting by
proportional representation? (2) Could that
method be applied where three candidates
are to be elected? (3) Has the method been
tried in Parliamentary elections, and, if
so, has it been discontinued, and why? (4)
Names of textbooks for or against propor-
tional representation ? —B4.
(1) It is not so much a system of “voting”
as a system of “counting,” with the object
of giving equitable representation to a large
group of electors, instead of the largest group
in each single electorate having all the
representation. (2) Yes. (3) Yes, in
several countries, including N. S. Wales,
where Parliament repealed the legisla-
tion which provided for it. Chief among
the objections were that the electorates be-
came too large; that undesirable rivalry and
duplication of effort on the part of members
for the same electorate resulted, and that
the system failed to provide a satisfactory
working majority for whatever Government
gained office. (4) There is a great deal of
literature on the subject. Refer to A. G.
Huie, secretary of the Proportional Repre-
sentation Society of N.S.W., 114 Hunter-
street, Sydney.
If a minor breaks a shop window is his
parent responsible: (1) If accompanying the
minor? (2) If not accompanying the minor?
(3) Does the age of the minor effect the
issue? —ll3.
(1) and (2) In most such cases the
parent pays if the minor cannot, but has
no direct responsibility for the damage done.
(3) Only to the extent that up to 18 years,
proceedings against him would be taken in a
children’s court, and after that age in the
ordinary police court.
(I) What was the A.I.F. sth Division's
first important action in France, and where
and when? (2) What teas the result oj
their first engagement? —l4B.
(1) With tbe 61st British Division it
attacked Fromelles on July 19,1916, with the
object of pinning to that front certain Ger-
man reserves who had been resting there and
were about to be withdrawn to support the
German line on the Somme. (2) The attack
penetrated the German lines but failed to
hold any part of them. The Australian
casualties alone were over 5500. The heavy
day’s fighting was distinguished by the gal-
lant conduct of the Australian troops under
intense fire.
What is the chemical composition of the
electrolyte used in an Edison accumulator,
and. in what proportions are the chemicals
mixed? —170. _ .
It. is a solution of potassium-hydrate mixed
one part in five with distilled water to which
is added a small amount of lithium-hydrate.
The chemical is supplied in sealed cans with
full instructions for mixing by Edison, Swan
Electric Co., 156 Creek-street, Brisbane, the
cost being 6s. 6d.
(1) Of what material is the little brown
jug commonly used in cafes for milk, having
the top half glazed and bottom half rough
and crinkled, made? (2) How can holes be
drilled througHi the glazed part of these jugs
without injuring them? —l73.
(1) The trade name is “brown-stone
ware.” (2) It is usual to cut or drill holes
before firing, when the wet clay has dried
sufficiently to stand handling. If the job
is done after baking, an ordinary twist drill,
kept moist with turpentine, is used.
What are the benefits to be d-crived from
the use of wire-netting trays in maturing
oysters? —l77.
In trays oysters have room to expand and
to improve their shape. The height of the
tray can be regulated, and the best level for
ensuring the maximum amount of growth
obtained. A free circulation of water about
tbe oysters is provided, and they are com-
paratively free from pests.
Two locomotives are similar in every
respect with the exception that the driving
wheels of one are shod with tyres, making
the diameter 3 ft. din. The tyres on the
other have been turned down until their
diameter is only 3ft. 6 in. Which locomotive
will consume the more coal and water over
a given distance, all other things being equal?
—lB7.
An engine with 3ft. 9in. driving wheels
will make 448 revolutions per mile, while
an engine with 3ft. 6in. wheels will make
480 revolutions per mile. On a level grade
the locomotive having the smaller tyres and
making more strokes per mile will consume
more coal and water, practically in the ratio
480 is to 448, but on a steep gradient the
smaller wheels would be more economical.
(1) Is it difficult to obtain a passport to
the U.S.A. for a three-months’ holiday trip?
(2) Amount of landing money needed? (3)
What is the present ownership of the “Bay”
boats that g 0 to England? (4) Fares on
them? (5) What route do they take? —198.
(1) No. Full particulars are obtainable
from the American Consul, Sydney. (2)
No definite amount is fixed. The Consul
deals with each application on its merits.
Canada at present prohibits the landing of
skilled or unskilled laborers. (3) Aberdeen
and Commonwealth line. (4) £39 to £53,
according to the position of tbe accommoda-
tion. (5) Via Suez.
I wish to visit tffie Great Barrier Reef
during December and January. What tra-
velling arrangements would I have to make?
—277.
Mackay Tours, Ltd., are arranging an
expedition to Whitsunday Passage with
headquarters at Lindeman Island, leaving
Mackay on December 19 and return-
ing to Mackay on January 9, at a
charge of £7 per week, which includes
steamer passages between. Mackay and Lin-
deman Island, launch service in the Kennedy
Sound, dinghies and punts, board and resi-
dence, fishing and reef excursions, etc. Other
particulars from the Queensland Tourist
Bureau, 56 Margaret-street, Sydney.
(1) How many enemy aeroplanes were shot
down by members of the Australian Flying
Corps in France and Belgium? (2) How
many Australian machines were shot down
on the same fronts by enemy airmen? (3)
What Australain pilot was credited with the
destruction of the greatest number of enemy
’planes?— 9673.
(1) Destroyed, 247; driven down out of
control, 145; driven down, 53. (2) 48. (3)
Capt. A. PI. Cobby, D. 5.0., D.F.C. (24
destroyed, and five driven down out of
control).
What are ghost sharks? —138.
When caught, ghost sharks ( Ilolocephali )
are glistening silver in color. Differing in
many respects from 'true sharks, they, like
the higher fishes, have one gill opening only
on either side, instead of the sliarkish five
to seven slits; and bony grinders instead of
teeth. Their skin is smooth, and they have
a stout spine before the dorsal fin ; the tail
trails off into a long filament. The male has
a peculiar bony hook on its forehead. The
elephant fishes of Vic., Tas. and M.L. waters
are related.
I am an Australian resident and hold some
British and M.L. Government loan stock. Is
the interest on these subject to Federal,
income tax? —244.
Not unless the interest escaped taxation
in tbe place of derivation. Both Maoriland
and the United Kingdom issued some loans
free of tax, but loans of recent years have
been made liable to tax in the country of
derivation.
(1) When, why and by whom was Rose-
hill (near Sydney) named? (2) How did
■the Turon (N.S.W.) diggings receive that
name, and when did the first rush occur
there? (3) Who were the first storekeepers
on the field? —203.
(1) From 1788 to 1791 Rose Hill, so
christened by Governor Phillip, was the dis-
trict which is now known as Parramatta.
From 1791 to about 1850 the name denoted
the area immediately surrounding Govern-
ment House there —a portion of what is now
Parramatta Park. It then fell out of use,
but in 1885 was revived to denote the area,
some distance south-east of Parramatta, be-
tween the Parramatta River and Duck
Creek, used as a racecourse. (2) The dig-
gings received their name from the River
Turon, a tributary of the Macquarie. Gold
was found there in May or June, 1851, and
on July 8, 1851, the number of licenses was
600. (3) The name of Fulton and Co. is
given by one authority, and that of Joe
Walford by another.
T am an amateur photographer, and do a
little press photography. (1) How long
should a gaslight or bromide print remain
in the fixing bath before being washed, to
send to a newspaper? (2) Is glazing essen-
tial?—2ss.
(1) Depends on how much time you have
to spare and how long the print is to be kept
before it goes to the etcher. If time is not
an object it should stay in a normal-strength
hypo bath for 15 minutes, followed by a 30-
minute wash. For a rush job experts
use a fixing solution of three times the nor-
mal strength, immerse for three minutes and
wash for five minutes in a stream of strongly-
running water. The novice, however, must
learn l>y experience the extent to which liber-
ties can be taken with the r.egular formulas.
Printing papers vary. (2) Though a glazed
print is preferred by the blockmakers a
glossy surface is not essential.
How can ambergris be identified? —256.
Hold a needle in a flame for about 10
to 20 seconds, then press into the substance
to a depth of about Jin., when, if it is genuine
ambergris, a dark brown to black resinous
liquid forms around the needle and appears
to boil. The needle is withdrawn, and before
the melted material on the sample cools it
is touched with the finger, when tacky pitch-
like strings should adhere to the skin. The
odor of the smoke should be some-
thing like that of burning rubber. A
piece of ambergris about the size of a pea,
when immersed in three teaspoons of
alcohol and warmed or allowed to stand
for some hours with occasional shaking, is
almost completely dissolved, any insoluble
black specks settling to the bottom of the
vessel. The splution when placed in sun-
light exhibits a greenish or bluish effect simi-
lar to that noticeable in motor lubricating
oils. In diffused daylight the solution may
vary from light yellow to golden brown,
according to the quality of the ambergris.
If rectified spirit has been used for dis-
solving the ambergris a piece of muslin or
blotting-paper may be moistened with the solu-
tion and allowed to dry in the air. The char-
acteristic musty odor of ambergris is thereby
fully developed, and, in the case of good
ambergris, the odor is retained by the cloth
after washing with soap. All ambergris will
float on sea water.
Can you tell me something about (1) the
water-tree, (2) the weeping- or raining-tree?
—265.
(1) The large needlewood ( Halcea leucop-
tera), a dry-country shrub, is known by this
name because by cutting through its roots
drinkable watery sap is obtained. (2) This
is the Glochidion ferdinandi, called in differ-
ent localities on the Queensland coast belt
red madang, pencil cedar or cheese-tree. Only
those trees which harbor frog-hopper or
spittle-insect larva; “weep” or “rain.” These
larvae suck the tree sap. some of which passes
through them and froths on contact with
the air. These bubbles bursting, clear liquid
falls like raindrops.
(1) Is Francis Thompson accepted as a
major poet by modern critics. (2) What
is his position in relation to Swinburne?
(3) .Has he written much prose? (4) What
is his finest poetical work? —325.
(1) He is a major poet in the sense that
no critic of verse unacquainted with his work
could be considered to have prepared himself
adequately for his task. Hugh Chisholm,
one of tbe world’s greatest scholars, says
of him: “For glory of inspiration and
natural magnificence of utterance he is
unique among the poets of his time.” (2)
That’s purely a matter of individual taste —
like trying to decide between the merits of
cherries and plums. (3) Not a great deal.
He did a little journalistic work and wrote
a treatise entitled “Health and Holiness,”
praising the ascetic life. (4) Again a matter
of personal opinion. “Tbe Hound of Heaven”
is best known.
Can you tell me something about a tree
called the supplejack? —lol.
It is a bushy tree from 20ft. to 30ft. high ;
the flowers, in sprays, are petal-less and in-
significant and tbe fruit has a long narrow-
ing wing. It grows in various parts of
Australasia, and is a valuable fodder tree.
Heavy lopping does not harm it, causing it
to sucker from the root. These young shoots
form a supple, slender stem, which supports
itself and climbs on the mother-tree, so a
useful clump grows. The pithy wood was
used by abos. when fire-making.
(1) How is Canada off financially? (2)
Unemployment large? (3) What prospects
of starting a motor-cycle agency there for
British machines? (4) For oars? (5)
Would the fact they were British help? —
9943.
(1) Canada’s national (Federal) debt
approximates £440,000,000. In the seven
years to March 31, 1930, the debt was re-
duced by about £70,000,000. The tumble in
wheat prices is a serious matter for the
Dominion. (2) There is considerable unem-
ployment, accentuated during the winter
months, which commence about November
and end in March. (3) and (4) Very
few motor-cycles are used in Canada, cars
being so cheap. All the leading motor manu-
facturers in U.S. have branches or affiliated
manufacturing cos. in Canada. There are
comparatively few British cars sold in the
Dominion, but any imported would have a
tariff preference of about per cent. (5)
Don’t think so.
Brief Answers.
Worried: Try top-dressing the strip of
grass with stable manure. If this is not effective dust
a little flaked naphthaline over the grass, giving a
very slight dressing. Sulphate of ammonia might
have the same effect... .W.A.H.: No way known to
us of preventing formation of rust in an iron
kettle. A little vinegar and salt will clean up verdi-
gris in a laundry copper. .. . A.A.G.: (1) The
Torrens Act provides that where the first mort-
gagee exercises his right to sell the property he shall,
after paying the costs of sale and satisfying his
own demand, pay off out of the surplus, if any,
subsequent mortgages “in the order of their priority.”
(2) If you can show damage, an action for defama-
tion would lie. ...M.L.: The sixpence of 1840 is
worth Is. to a collector. “Fid. Def. Ind. Imp.” is
a contraction of the Latin Fidei Defensor, Indiae
Imperator (or Imperatrix)—defender of the Faith,
Emperor (or Empress) of India.... L.W.V.: Write
Angus and Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
J.W.: (1) No value. (2) 15s. (3) ss. (4) 25....
D. : Not compulsory, but it would be judicious
to have it drawn by a solicitor. No fixed fee....
N.L.W.: No use going to Maoriland to look for work.
. ...F.M.C.: Yes. See law 20. The decision of the
second umpire is final; law 47....E.C.: (1) You
should consult a patent attorney. You may apply
for a patent in your own name and then dispose of
your rights, or you may sell the invention, with the
right to apply for a patent, to another party. (2)
Try Anthony Hordern and Sons, Sydney.... .J.R.R.:
The storekeeper cannot coerce the bank in any way.
His remedy is to sue you for the money due. . . .
H.J.: Skittles, as now played, consists of nine large,
oval-headed pins which are set up in a square, three
pins on each side, with a corner angle presented to
the player, who stands about 21ft. from the pins.
The object is to knock down as many pins as possible
at each throw... .C.Iv.M.: Get in touch with Arthur
Kench, Chief Inspector, Pure Food Supervision
Branch, Department of Public Health, Sydney....
A.C.: The length of the river is 170 ft. 9)in., and
the length of the shadow 25ft. 6jin C.W.: It is
not possible to supply the information without data
regarding (1) length of switch, (2) width of open-
ing at fixed end of switch, (3) width at railhead,
(4) angle and length of crossing wings. Let us
have those particulars and we ll help... .I.AV.: The
distance from Bilpin to Kurrajong (N.S.W.) railway
station is approximately 11 miles.... G.C.C.: Write
Lyons Trading Co., 28 Bond-street, Sydney....
P.U.P.: The book of Leech’s etchings is worth
7s. 6d.; llie other has no value. .. .W.M.: Particulars
not available.... C.R. A. and J.U.8.: Mrs.. G.
Farquharson, 10 Brady-street, Croydon (N.S.W.), can
supply a booklet, lOd. posted.... M.C.: (1) “Bar-
bola,” procurable from Craffia, Her Majesty’s Arcade,
Pitt-street, Sydney, price Is. 2d. posted, gives all
details. (2) Mrs. R. Callahan, 23 Carlyle-street,
Wollstonecraft, Sydney... .J.C.; (1) You are entitled
to a copy. (2) A breach of one does not invalidate
all. (3) Cannot be void or would not have been
registered... .N.F.L.; At one time blackboy-gum was
somewhat extensively imported by Germany from
Australia for use in making varnishes. Consult
Forests Departments in Adelaide and Perth. The
Council for Scientific and Industrial Research has
published a leaflet dealing with the gum P.G.C.:
(1) Advertise that you have £2OOO to invest in it.
(2) Van Cooph and Co., Perry and Co., Harrison Ram-
say-—all Melbourne. (3) Very poor; best to keep his
money. At least £BOO a year is required to maintain
man and wife. Java is passing through very bad
times and it is unlikely there will be any openings.
. ...C.F.W.: Unless the solution was drawn off and
the plates stored away from light and air when
the battery went out of commission it probably is
now useless. Take it to a service station for inspec-
tion. If of any use they will charge it. .. .T.M.M.:
(1) The editor. (2) No objection to legible handwrit-
ing, though well-spaced typewritten copy is preferred.
Separate pars, should be written on separate sheets.
(3) Yes. (4) Not necessary, though it saves us
time in thinking up one for you. (5) Yes. (6) Study
the paper... .J.K.M.D.: Try Australian General
Electric Co., 95 Clarence-street; Auto Magneto and
Engineering Co., 11 Commonwealth-street ; or Bennett
and Barkell, Ltd., Meagher-street—all Sydney....
E. : (1) and (2) Size doesn’t matter a great deal.
(3) There are many excellent textbooks on the sub-
ject. Borrow one or two through the Country Reference
Section, N.S.W. Public Library, Sydney E.M.:
(1) Sirloin is a variation of an old French word
“surlonge” ; “sur” meaning “upon,” and “longe”
“lain.” (2) Yes J.W.M.: Write Enrights,
Beaudesert, Q’land.... J.A.D.: Ye5....G.M.: (1)
Captain-in-charge, Garden Island, Sydney, will be
able to tell you. (2) Write Navigation Dept., Bris-
bane. (3) Any of the shipping cos. trading to Cairns
would furnish a quotation. (4) Suggest you advertise
in the shipping column of the “Sydney Morning
Herald”... .K.F.: For New Guinea and Papua write
Under-Sec. Home Affairs, Canberra; for Fiji and S.
Africa, Police Depts. at Suva and Cape Town R.L.:
Marconi, when he switched on the lights of the Sydney
Town Hall, was on board his yacht Elettra, at Genoa.
.. . .8.D.: A certified copy of an entry of birth in S.A.
costs 2s. Cd. (Is. search fee extra if full particulars of
birth are not given) and is obtainable from the
Registrar-General, Adelaide... .D.D.: Published by
Routledge, London. Obtainable from Robertson and
Mullens, Melbourne, at 6s. 6d., postage 10d
A.F.: “Those Were the Days,” by A. A. Milne (con-
taining “Day’s Play,” “Holiday Round,” “Once a
Week” and “The Sunny Side”), obtainable from
Angus and Sydney, 11s. posted.... Grad:
(1) Write “Feng-Shui,” c/o The Bulletin office.
(2) Give more details as to what you require. (3)
Yes, quite a number. See his “Poems” (1893),
“Sister Songs” (1895) and “New Poems” (1897).
(4) From Angus and Robertson. (5) Only sure treat-
ment is by electrolysis C.E.C.; Couldn’t say with-
out inspection. Most likely it is the work of Samuel
Thomas Gill (1820-80), who turned out a considerable
number of water-colors, lithographs and engravings
during his career, more valuable as transcripts of the
life and costume of his time than as art C.P.P.:
Ardlethan was called after a place in Scotland, the
name being derived from the Gaelic and meaning
“high and hilly”... .H.S.E.: The courses leading to
the Diploma in Military Science of Sydney Uni. have
been suspended for years; resumption is not proposed.
D.L.: The pademelon is a small wallaby.
Macropus thetidis,, The common name, which
is variously spelt, is a corruption of the
aboriginal name E.H.C.8.: If you consented
to the covenants in the mortgage when it
was presented you cannot now set them aside, unless,
perhaps, by an equity suit on the grounds of mis-
take, a costly and doubtful coarse to take.
R.H.H.: Seven years, but this must be supported by
facts showing that reasonable efforts have been made
to trace his whereabouts... .W.V.; So far it has
gained very little standing. It would be better to
qualify for the Federal or Commonwealth Institute’s
degree... .Ellabo: When submitting stories it is not
necessary to enclose a Service Dept, coupon....
A.C.: You should have received both receipt and
policy. Not having received either you were justified
in stopping the order... .T. 8.: Your claim is against
the owner of the station. Should he become insol-
vent you could claim as a creditor in the estate.
Safest course is to draw your money now and bank
it.... (Many others mailed.)


Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
7/ie Standard o t Quality throughout tho Empire,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuss
Detonators
Cartridges
$
15,000,000
MOTOR VEHICLES ARE
LUBRICATED EVERY
500 MILES WITH
ALEMITE
The Universal Lubricant
ADELAIDES Best-Value Hotel
Homelike Hospitality!
Co,
Relax in the Grosvenor’s spacious
lounge. Complete comfort and cour-
teous service—reasonable rates. 300
rooms, 100 bathrooms. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Yale locks on all
doors. Fire-proof throughout. Meals
a la carte from 1/6. £3/10/- weekly.
Bed and Breakfast from 6/6.
Crosvenor
NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION
THE MAN
ON THE LANDS'
PAGE
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
PIG PRODUCTS FOR BRITAIN.
“Sendee”: Commonwealth Minister Molo-
ney reports that there is a good market in
Britain for frozen pork, and that he was
assured there that Australian consignments
.sent this season compared favorably with
the best Argentine product.
The market fluctuates considerably in Eng-
land, but we can export pork from September
to May—our local “off” season—with rea-
sonable prospects of a payable price. At
present pork is quoted at Bd. to B|d. per
lb. in Britain. It is estimated that ft costs
about 4d. per lb. to produce, and another
2Jd. per lb. to land and sell it in Britain,
At Bd. per lb. there should be a reasonable
margin.
The pig industry probably offers more room
for expansion in Australia than any other line
of stock-rearing. We can produce bacon
and pork second to none in the world, and
by the adoption of better methods we could
produce it much more economically than
at present. In 1928 Britain imported
660,228 tons of pig products valued at
£55,405.339, of which £406,407 worth came
from Maoriland and only £5OBl worth from
Australia.
It is a valuable market, but to secure a
firm foothold in it, and hold it, it is neces-
sary that pork of the best quality and uni-
form type should be exported, and that
the consumers’ tastes should be studied all
the time. The Berk.-Tamworth cross is un-
doubtedly the type for us. The flesh is just
what is required for either pork or bacon,
and wastage in evaporation and offal is light,
SHEAR TITE LAMBS.
“Fred Rich”: Owing to the character of
the season in N. S. Wales many woolly lambs
are losing condition—or, to use the buyers’
term, drying-off. Where this is happening they
should be shorn. It is a mistake to keep
lambs in the wool once the w’eather begins
to get hot. Shearing prevents the wool be-
coming seedy and enables the lambs to main-
tain their condition, even if they do not
put on flesh.
Lambs shorn early will invariably top-up
quickly when turned on good grass. When
the ewes are shorn and the lambs remain
with their wool on, ticks and lice are easily
transferred to the young ones. All sheep
have to be dipped. Shorn lambs are cheaper
to dip than woolly ones, and there is cer-
tainly less risk of losses. Further, more
shorn lambs can be placed in a truck, there
is not the same likelihood of their going
down as when in the wool, and the freight
1S reduced. . , .
Shorn lambs not up to slaughtering stan-
dard are more eagerly purchased by graziers
than woolly ones m similar condition hi
short, the policy of shearing them, and doing
it early, is of certain benefit to woolgrowers.
T'lf'w-vprp t rvcjTr n'mr cott WAn'iT'T?
DON T LOSE IHE SOIL WAILR.
“Hortus”: Now that the hot season has
set in, great care should be exercised m pre-
venting soil-water evaporation. Get to work
as soon as possible after a shower, and
loosen up to a depth of 3in. or 4m. the soil
between the rows of growing crops. Plants
are kept going much longer if the ground
is left loose and crumbly round them The
sun’s rays and a hot wind can do a lot of
damage in a short time.
In open paddocks, where crops have to
bear the full brunt of prevailing hot winds,
farmers would do well to break the force
of these by means of shelter belts of trees,
chosen according to the climatic conditions
of the district. By cooling and moistening
the air, shelter trees prevent too rapid
evaporation.
This is the season, too, for working tal
lows. A crusted surface undoes all the good
work. The main point in fallowing land
is to conserve as much moisture as possible;
therefore the surface soil must be stirred as
soon as the effectiveness of the mulch is
destroyed by rain. Mulches are only effective
when loose and dry.
Cultural methods for the conservation of
moisture result in improved moisture supply
for the young crop ; m .Boater bought resist-
ance; m improved moisture supply tor the
growth of bacteria, which indirectly leads
to significant quantities of plant foods built,
rendered available for the crop; in weeds
being controlled and eliminated from competi-
tion with the crop for supplies of moisture
and minerals; in improved soil conditions,
whereby the plant roots develop much more
vigorously and tap otherwise unavailable
supplies of moisture and minerals.
TO BEAT THE WALLABY.
“Mulyan”: Where wallabies are a pest
to crops, as in parts of Queensland and in
other places where there is much scrub adja-
cent, more time is usually spent in hunting
them, and more loss incurred year after year
by their depredations, than would pay for
running a narrow strip of wure-netting
around the cultivation area. On most farms
it is only necessary to net a small part or
the boundary. Besides being an effective
block to wallabies, the netting keeps out ban-
dicoots. It is quickly run along any ordinary
fence, and makes a permanent protection. I
have seen farms in the Fassifern (S.Q.)
district, and near Gundurimba and Wyralla,
on the Richmond River, walled round
with loose stones gathered in the vicinity.
Though much of the work was done in spare
time, and at night by moonlight and firelight,
it was a prodigious task that could not have
compensated for the saving in the cost of
netting.
Another fence was built of stubs—small
uprights from 4in. to 6in. thick, and sft. or
6ft high, stood closely together. The neces-
sary timber for such a bander is usually
plentiful in scrubby places, and it makes a
substantial, vei’min-proof fence ; but cutting
and trenching take a long while. It is
mainly used for enclosing a small patch of
ground.
Where the wallaby has a stronghold of
dense jungle, it is not easy to hunt. But it
can be trapped by making a V-shaped en-
trance, narrowing inwards to almost a point,
and leading towards a tempting crop, but
really into a netted yard. In such traps,
placed where they regularly emerge from
their fastnesses, a small mob might be
caught in a night. Wallabies are fond of
melons, and these could be used as a lure.
A common custom is for a number of
farmers to make Sunday raids on the
marsupials, at a certain place
one Sunday and at another the next, armed
with guns and rifles, and accompanied by all
the dogs they can muster. In parts of
Queensland the animals have been hunted as
long as there have been plantations there, and
now some planters even consider the dingo
a useful ally in keeping the pest in check.
But wallabies swarmed there when dingoes
and abos. were numerous. The best remedy,
while they have their jungle strongholds, is
the netting.
BURNING-OFF GRASS.
“Buckwong”: “Hortus” (B. 26/11/ , 30)
in his hearty advocacy of this practice is
hardly explicit or detailed enough. Flats sub-
ject to flooding cannot be burned often
enough. Lands above flooding, but not steep,
arc the better for frequent burnings; but
only when the ground beneath is not too
hot and dry.
Steep country is in a different category
Here a heavy burn will usually disintegrate
the choicest top-soil, leaving it and the ashes
liable to be swept away. And heavy
burns are often followed by torrential rain-
storms, wdiich will follow r lines of burnt
country as if they had eyes and intelligence.
I have seen such a storm do great havoc.
The great thing in hill country is to keep
burning all kinds of dead litter and rubbish
when there is no danger of the fires getting
awmy. When the litter is got rid of there is
seldom enough mere grass to calcine the
surface soil. When it can be afforded it is
good business to sprinkle a few grass and
clover seeds in the more fertile spots that
have been burned over. They are much more
likely to hold than when thrown among
unburned growths.
Finally, it must be borne in mind that
where ring-barking has been done in recent
years, a forest fire will, in all probability,
bring up millions of seedlings. The expense
these will cause should not be overlooked.
COOLING CREAM ON THE FARM.
“U. Murray”: Since the use of preserva-
tives in butter destined for the British
market was prohibited, the question, always
urgent, of supplying cream of first quality
has become more urgent still. Many devices
and precautions have been pressed upon
the notice of suppliers; but, next to con-
scientious cleanliness, this plan, which I first
saw in a South Coast (N.S.W.) dairy about
30 years ago, will be found the most advan-
tageous. • .. , ,
In that S.C. building, to secure the best
possible draught, a small cement cistern
was built between the front and back doors
to hold four milkeans and 25 to 50 gallons
of water. A tap above, connecting with the
water supply, and a vent tap below completed
the scheme. In the cistern the dairyman
placed his evening supply of milk, as the
cans were filled. (He was making cheese
at the time.) According to velocity ot
draught, etc., the water in the semi-porous
cistern would run anywhere from 12 to oU
degrees below the temperature ot the atmo-
sphere—and the milk would come out m
first-class condition in the morning. W hen
any suspicion of staleness occurred the water
was run off and a new supply run m, to
cool down, just as it does in the water-bag.
The cement in this little receptacle coulc
not have cost more than 10s. and the wor
could be done by anyone in. a tew hours.
In fact, when it had saved one can of cream
from condemnation it had paid for itselt.
Why shouldn’t every dairyman who lias
not a dailv cream delivery provide lnmse
with a similar contrivance? Indeed, where
there is a daily delivery of cream, it still
means that each evening’s cream is carrieu
over the night and well into the next daj
before it reaches the pasteuriser, lhe pro-
vision of such cheap and effective coolers
would yet be highly profitable to the indi-
vidual dairymen, and to their factories, no
A pointer which that South Coast dairy-
man gave me, I remember, was to finish on
the inside of the cistern rather roughly, so
that if the cement work proved too porous
an inside coat of denser cement could be
easily applied.
SENDING FRUIT TO MARKET.
“Wilt”: I was present when boxes of
cherries from various N.S.W. districts were
opened up at the Sydney markets. Nearly
all the fruit was steamy; a lot ot it was
in the first stages of fermentation. In some
cases it had been picked too ripe, but
mostly the trouble lay in the fact that the
cherries were hot when picked and packed.
Cherries pack in very tightly in the boxco,
and the boxes (being compact) paok in
closely in the trucks. There is practically
no ventilation, and the cherries start to
sweat. In the case of apples or peaches, the
air can circulate between, the fruit, anc
owing to the spring in the sides there is ven-
tilation between the boxes as well, lhe rib
in the old-time bushel and half-bushel cases
also provided for air space between boxes,
either in the truck or lorry.
Many growers of small fruit make tne
mistake of using too much paper when pack-
ing. A protection of paper is necessary, but
it must not be such as to shut out all roc
air from the fruit when tlic box is closed.
Perforated pattern paper is the most attrac-
tive for use in the packing of small fruit,
and the perforation allows ot ventilation.
All summer fruit should be cooled
it is packed. Where possible, it should be
treated in properly equipped cooling cham-
bers ; this will greatly improve its keeping
and selling qualities. . . ~
There are still growers who imagine tnat
it is worth while sneaking a bit of rubbish
in with their good fruit, since the buyer
suffers It is a foolish notion, lhe buyer
is a shrewd bird; as a rule he soon detects
shortcomings, and promptly drops the price a
great deal more than he thinks the loss to
him will be. .... ,
Honesty and care in the handling and
packing of fruit will yield pounds per acre
more than slipshod methods.
GROWING PASSION FRUIT.
“Bar. K.”; The passion vine is capable
of producing good crops of fruit in the poor-
est coastal soils where other crops fail.
Nevertheless the growing of passions in
Australia is mostly confined to citrus dis-
tricts, where vines can be planted between
the rows of young fruit trees. They give
a fair return during the years that the
citrus trees are growing into bearing.
If the crop is planted in a young citrus
orchard the land will of necessity have
been well worked. It is desirable to mulch
each plant with stable manure, and also to
add from two to four pounds per vine of
a mixture of equal parts of blood and bone,
super, and sulphate of ammonia. The vines
should be planted out in the spring when
the frosts are -over, to 20ft. apart in
rows 10ft. apart. About 300 plants go to
the acre. Posts should be placed 20ft. to
25ft. apart in the rows, sft. out of the
ground, and not les's than 20in. under-
ground, and well rammed. Two 12-gauge
fencing wires should be stapled to the top
of the posts and strained fairly tight, as
they will have to carry a good load of fruit
and vines. A stake should be driven into
the ground alongside each vine, and the
vine tied to it, and pruned to a single
stem until the wires are reached, when
tying may be discontinued.
Passion vines start to bear at about seven
months, from the time of planting, and will
be in full bearing at about IS months. The
useful life of a vine is about two to three
years of full bearing. The fruit should be
picked every two days in the summer-time.
Prices fluctuate considerably; they might
average 10s. a box. If the crop were grown
on a much larger scale a better market
would open up for the pulp trade, but at
present the supply is so erratic that this
side of the business is not exploited as it
should be.
Of the diseases of the passion, woodi-
ness (or bullet) is the most serious. This
is a virus disease, and can be conveyed
by mechanical means while pruning or
working among the vines, also by insect
pests; but fortunately passions are not as
yet subject to many visitations of this sort.
The disease usually causes a discoloration
of the end shoots of the plants, and also
causes them to wrinkle. The only control
measures are to destroy immediately plants
showing symptoms, and to take care not
to handle healthy plants until the hands or
implements have been well washed.
Brown-spot isl a fungus disease which
aireets plants during wet weather and
steamy days. Small circular spots appear
ist °n the leaves; later, the fruit becomes
spotted with sunken brown spots, withers
and drops off. The only control at present
is to destroy all the spotted fruit and prun-
lgs, and so check the source of infection,
loung vines may be sprayed with Bordeaux
lxture, but there would be too much foli-
tiv*e 111 U rown y i nes for this to be effec-
« FAT ™ NING POULTRY.
Fo * nt ,' : If you're just going to send
tovris to market to be sold with a lot of
culls and stags, fattening them is not worth
w me. But it you want to top off some
(liras, either tor your own use or for sale
where you will get a decent price for a
decent article, this is the way to go about it.
Ihe birds must be comfortable, though
not able to exercise, and should be made to
consume as much as possible. A coop through
which they can poke their heads to eat and
arink is recommended, being more con-
venient tor giving food and water, and they
won t be excited by your going in among
f“ e CO °P on a good dry spot, and
shift it daily; if this isn't possible, try to
arrange a dropping board removable from
the outside. If they don’t fatten in three
weeks they never will.
You can fatten them on a wet mash, con-
sisting of bran, pollard, oilcake, etc., mixed
with skim milk, or on grain alone; maize
is the best grain. Whichever method is
used, feed them four or five times a day, regu-
lating the amount by the appetite and try-'
ing to keep the appetite on edge for the next
feed without skimping the last. Ample
water should also be provided, but not
much green food.
If y°u are looking for buyers don’t regard
killing and. dressing the birds as outside your
ambit. The man whose fowls please the
eye as w 7 ell as the palate will not want for
customers. A nice trade can be worked up
in this ivay by poultry-farmers near cities
or large towns. Don’t be satisfied to send
all your killers to market and chance it; have
a go at selling to consumers direct.
FARMING IN MAORILAND.
There is food for thought in a bluebook of
agricultural statistics published by the M.L.
Government The land and settlement admin-
istration of the Dominion beyond the Tasman
has for 40 years been in the hands of a
succession of practical farmers—-men who
could steer a two-horse team along a straight
furrow. Most of the recent Premiers have
been men of the land. Massey was building
a haystack when the news came through of
his first election to Parliament; Coates spent
the day after his elevation to the Premier-
ship digging potatoes, and Forbes ivas help-
ing to roll fleeces in his own woolshed at
Cheviot a few days after a momentous inter-
view with the Governor. These men and
others, such as John McKenzie, have done
their best to make Maoriland farm plots
available to energetic young men, however
poor. As a result a most thriving agricul-
tural, pastoral and dairying industry has
been built up.
The zenith of Maoriland’s agrarian
glory was reached in the years imme-
diately following the Great War. What
has happened since then can be best ex-
pressed in figures. Between 1921 and this
year the population has increased by 21 per
cent. The number of persons engaged m
farms has increased by only 3 per cent. The
area under cultivation lias decreased from
43,546,757 acres to 43,368,653 acres; the
area under grain and pulse ’ crops from
883,129 acres to 567,829 acres ; the area of
green and root crops from 770,568 acres to
716,118 acres.
Largely owing to the efforts of the Govern-
ment dairy and sheep experts and the great
attention paid to the improvement of pas-
ture land by manurial dressings the cattle
herds have been increased in the nine years
by 20 per cent, and the sheep flocks by close
on 30 per cent., with more than commen-
surate increases in the yields of butterfat and
wool. The amount of artificial power used
on farms has increased from 73,457 li.p.
to 156,309 h.p.; the number of milking
machines has been doubled; the number of
cream separators has been increased by
(Continued on page 26.)


CHRYSLER
66"
16
#
//
//
77
Performance that
cannot be exaggerated
IjERFORMANCE claims that would ordinarily seem
exaggerated are perfectly in order with Chrysler—the farthest advance
thus far achieved in motor car engineering. That the great line of
cars bearing this name is farther ahead in engineering can be demon-
strated easily to anyone who is familiar with the science of engineering—
and equally well demonstrated to the motorist who judges engineering
entirely by performance results. . And how these Chryslers do per-
form! How powerful and brisk and full of life! How easily they
dart through traffic or sprint up the steepest hills! — d How smoothly
and quietly they maintain high speeds on the open highway! How
responsive they are to the slightest touch on the wheel! How instantly
obedient to their internal weatherproof hydraulic brakes! There
is no other motor car performance like Chrysler performance
because there is no other motor car engineering like Chrysler engineering.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales .... Larke, Neaoe & Carter, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Lane's Motors Ply., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Ward Motors, Ltd., Brisbane
South Australia Southern Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
West Australia William AttWood Motors, Ltd., Perth
Tasmania Metro Motors Pty., Ltd., Hobart
New Zealand Todd Motor Company, Wellington
New Guinea W. R. Carpenter & Co., Ltd., Rabaul


General Motors Australia
The
NEW BUICKg
▼
Three new series from £415
. . . including new smaller
8-50 Buick ... 114 inch wheelbase
Buick has now developed the new Eight. . .
the kind of an Eight you would expect Buick
to build. It has more flexibility and power, is
capable of higher sustained speeds.
While improving the car, Buick has lowered
the cost of ownership. You can now buy an
eight-cylinder Buick . . . Series 8-50 —in the
popular 114-in. wheelbase for as little as 5.
For twenty-seven years Buick has built
successful motor cars. Constantly developed
and improved, Buick has earned high public
regard. Among the 1,500,000 Buick owners
you will find leaders in public life, in the
professions, in business and in society. Men
and women of sound judgment; four out of
every five of them buy Buick again and again.
The new low prices and the smaller size of
the new 8-50 models now make the satisfaction
of Buick ownership available to many who,
though driving other cars, want to own Buick.
A sound balance of power,
speed and comfort.. .finer
cars and new low prices
The new straight eight-cylinder Buick engine
embodies the famous Valve-in-Head principle
of the earliest Buicks, now incorporated even
in the finest aeroplane engines. It gives
unusually smooth, silent power with flashing
acceleration . . . and speed you maintain with
ease, hour after hour.
The new Engine-Oil Temperature Regulator
ensures cool oil for the engine throughout the
longest journey at top speeds ... In cold
Here is pictured the new Buick 8- 9 o Sedan. Us striking beauty is in keeping with its power and comfort. Other
models include attractive new Coupes, Roadsters, and Tourers. You are invited to see them-and drive them-to-day,


:
i
f 1
nm
.:■
m
'***"- i
■■Hill
—M
3®
Mr-
I ■
-
.
IlilliSl
Wmmmm
I
■ W-
.
E‘ -
f
I/ "
;
1 S|
Look at the photograph above. It
gives you some idea of the way in
which this new eight-cylinder car was
developed. Day after day for three
years. 200,000 miles over the hills, in
the rough, and around the speed
track. . . Testing. . . Testing.
weather it means warm oil from the instant
the engine starts. The new Ring-Type
Torsion Balancer-equipped crankshaft and
rubber insulated engine mountings are
designed to eliminate vibration.
The larger models have the new Syncro-
Mesh Transmission formerly only in Cadillac
and La Salle. It provides non-clash gears
which enable you to change at once from
second into top—and back again—smoothly
and silently at any speed. The new Air Intake
Silencer in all models adds the final touch of
quietness to the car. Roomy bodies ... on
the famous Buick Sealed Chassis ... are
characteristic of Buick’s safety and comfort
... of its striking beauty, too.
In the new Buick Eight there is a sound
balance of power, speed and comfort. . . with
adequate reserves of all . You will find this car at
the nearest Buick showrooms—on view to-day.
You will enjoy seeing it. You are cordially
invited to have a demonstration. At its
wheel you'll understand the confidence Buick
owners have in their cars. General Motors
(Australia) Pty. Ltd., Brisbane, Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth. “More Wealth
for Australia—More Jobs for Australians. 5 ’
THREE SERIES
BUICK 8-50
£415 to £slo*
BUICK 8-60
£495 to £6oo*
BUICK 8-90
Sedan £B4s*
STRAIGHT
114 INCH
WHEELBASE
118 INCH
WHEELBASE
132 INCH
WHEELBASE
ALL VALYE-IN-HEAD
The World’s Lowest Priced
Valve-in-Head Light
The new model 8-50 Buick, with the popular
114-inch wheelbase, offers Buick satisfaction
at new low prices. It is the world’s lowest
priced Valve-in-Head Eight. See these fine
cars. Drive one yourself—and learn how
conveniently you can purchase under the
confidential G.M.A.C. plan.
% Prices are for standard wood wheel equip-
ment. Six wire wheels, spares carried in
fender wells are optional at extra cost: £3O
on series 8-90 Sedan; £25 on all others.
Metropolitan Distributors:
MOTORS, LTD.,
324 Wickham Street, Valley,
Brisbane.
(Toowoomba Branch —
Margaret Street, Toowoomba.)
BOYD EDKINS, LTD.,
109-119 Phillip Street, Sydney.
PRESTON MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
114 Franklin Street, Melbourne.
CITY MOTORS, LTD.,
95 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
SYDNEY ATKINSON MOTORS,
41 Pier Street, Perth.


Rugged, Flexible
and Easy-fitting
The comfort of pliant leather
and the easy fit of a naturally
arched upper combine with un-
usual durability in this stoutly-
made Abbey Cossack. It is
built for the hardest all-weather
wear. It is lined throughout
with soft leather and the tongue
is fastened at the sides to ex-
clude grass seeds and dust.
The sole is made of the toughest
leather available, in twice aver-
age thickness.
ORDER BY POST
Same sole leather used in all styles,
but the higher-priced tan boot has
an upper of special calf. Order,
also, the correct Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete) .
Tan Willow Calf, 46/6 & 41/6
Black Box Calf .. .. 39/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
FPL 206
CHANDLER’S
Chain and Tripod
HARROW
The Harrow which will do
ALL your job s —both
Pasture and Cultivation.
The only Harrow made in
Australia with renewable
teeth.
Chandler’s Harrow is the most up-
to-date and effective Harrow made.
Other makes of Harrows wear quickly
on front row of tripods, but the
CHANDLER HARROW, with inter-
changeable tripods, enables you to get
three times longer life.
The Spring Steel Teeth are renewable,
and can be varied in length from
2-4-in., 3in. to 3fin.
Chain and Tripod Harrows.
3 Rows. 4 Rows.
6ft. wide—
£lo 5 0 £l2 15 0
7ft. wide—
£ll 15 0 £l5 0 0
Bft. wide—
£l3 10 0 £l6 15 0
9ft. Wide-
flS 10 0 £l9 5 0
Depth complete—
6ft. 9in. 7ft. lOin.
The other reasonable prices will be
sent on application.
Manufactured, by
234-236 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
276-294 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy.
And at WARRNAMBOOL, BENDIGO,
HORSHAM, BALLARAT and PORTLAND,
VICTORIA.
SmmgT
AUCKLAND, N.Z. (Acc. 160)
“Only UNLICENSED Hotel^de-Luxe”
C.T., P.S., and Auto. Ass’ns’ House.
Days, 15/- (two or more, 14/-) ; Weekly, 84/-
“Special” rooms (h. and c. water), 16/- or 98/-
£20,000 of real new money is paid
weekly to mine employees alone at
Broken Hill. This new money is multi-
plied over and over as it circulates.
Get on to it and get your share, you
enterprising advertisers. Get on to it
through THE BARRIER MINER, the
great Western friend to all advertisers.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: H. V. BOOTH.
m
(§>
Double Value!
In These Two Double-Barrel Shotguns
Never have we known of such advantages being offered,
at the prices of these guns. Tested for safety—assembled
by expert gun-makers—simplified and strengthened
throughout.
No. 330 Hammerless
12-16-20 and .410 Gauges
Jostam Anti-Flinch Recoil Pad, Lyman Ivory Sights, Chrome Vanadium
Steel at vital parts. Barrels are Proof-Tested, with matted rib. Automatic
Safety. Capped full pistol grip. Walnut stock, finely checkered.
No. 311—Hammer less
12-16-20 and .410 Gauges
Without equal at the price. Barrels are Proof-Tested. Have matted rib.
Coil Springs. Automatic Safety. Half pistol grip Walnut finish stock.
Steel butt plate.
The greatest gun values in years —
I Send for complete information — now.
Exclusive Representative for Australia and New Zealand
ASHER SMITH, LTD. P. O. Box 966 Sydney, N. S. W.
J. STEVENS ARMS COMPANY
Export Offices: 100 East 42nd Street New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
STEVENS
one-half. But the horses, who provide a good
market, for farm stuff, have been reduced
from 337,259 to 297,195.
Comparisons of the value of production
from one decade to another are difficult owing
to variations in price-levels and changes in the
proportions of the various products. It may
be guessed, however, that Maoriland’s farm
production has kept pace with the growth
in population. The disturbing feature is that
the increased efficiency of modern farming
has, in the case of the Dominion, positively
reduced the acreage under cultivation and
has reduced the rate by which, on the old
standard, the army of land workers should'
have been increased.
NITROGEN, FOOD AND SETTLEMENT.
In a discourse at the British Association
meeting at Bristol Dr. R. E. Slade traced the
use of nitrogen fertilisers from the time of
Liebig’s discoveries in 1840 up to 1928, when
J,658,000 tons of nitrogen were used. At an
approximate cost of £5O per ton, this repre-
sents about £83,000,000. For those crops
with which man is directly concerned for his
own food the average nitrogen efficiency of
the fertilisers (that is, the percentage of the
nitrogen appearing in the crops) is approxi-
mately 17 per cent. This does not mean
that the increase in the crop is only 17
per cent, of the fertiliser; it means that
17 per cent, of the nitrogen goes into
the crop, and all the other constituents in-
crease also. For instance, wheat will actu-
ally produce 11.41 b. more for lib. of fertiliser
used, for the actual percentage of nitrogen
in wheat is only 1.8 per cent. It works out.
at something like 4.5 bushels per cwt. of
nitrogen. Returning now to man’s food : a
ton of nitrogen as fertiliser would feed 34
people for a year, sufficient carbohydrates
and fats being produced along with tiie pro-
teins to provide a balanced diet.
It has been demonstrated by Sir David
Hall that on an average from 2 to 24 acres
of land under cultivation are required to
feed one person. If we take the average
capital cost of building a nitrogen fertiliser
factory as £lOO per ton of nitrogen put out
per year, then for a capital outlay of £3
one person can be supported on average land
that is already under cultivation. And Dr.
Slade assumes that £lO per acre is the mini-
mum capital cost of new settlement, includ-
ing roads, railways, buildings and machinery
—£2s per person capital outlay for new land,
that is, as against £3 per person for settled
land. This is a point which is invariably
overlooked by politicians when they make
proposals for railway construction to open
up new land for settlement.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Recipe for salt-lick for sheep on (a)
ordinary feed, (b) dry feed, and (c) very
dry feed. (2) A few recipes for salt-licks
for cattle?— lB9.
(1) (a) Sulphate of iron, 24 p.c.; bone
meal, 15 p.c.; salt, balance. ( b ) Mag-
nesium sulphate, 6 p.c.; bone meal, 15 p.c.;
salt, balance. (c) Magnesium sulphate, to
20 p.c.; bone meal, 15 p.c. or less; salt,
balance. (2) (a) Bone meal, 50 p.c.; salt,
50 p.c. (6) Molasses, 15 p.c.; bone meal,
85 p.c. (c) Sulphate of iron, 24 p.c.; bone
meal, 30 p.c.; salt, balance.
(1) Does a blowfly strike a sheep once
and then die, or does it strike a number of
times? (2) How long does a bloiufly live?
(3) What are the stages in the life of a
blowfly? —2oo.
(1) It deposits its eggs in several batches,
extending over many days. (2) Investigators
have found that the metallic blue blowfly
(Chrysomyia albiceps) will live in cages for
30 days, and the green blowfly ( Lucilia
sericata) for 35 days. (3) Some of the
varieties lay eggs which hatch out to a
larva or maggot in a few minutes to five or
six hours, while others take from 15 to 21
hours. The second or larval stage varies
according to climatic conditions from four
to eight days, the pre-pupal stage from three
to seven days, and the pupal stage from five
days in summer to six or seven weeks in
cold weather. The final stage is that of the
adult fly.
A cure for lung worms in sheep? —l49.
The only satisfactory direct method of
treatment known consists of injections into the
windpipe. Treatment with bluestone drench
for parasites of the digestive tract and carbon
tetrachloride for liver flukes rids the animal
of these parasites and thus increases the
sheep’s resistance to lung worms. A supply of
bone-meal salt-lick is also helpful. Pre-
ventive measures consist of rotation of in-
fected pastures and drainage of paddocks.
How could T secure laud in the Northern
Territory suitable for cattle? —31.
Pastoral leases of Crown lands in Central
Australia are issued for terms not exceed-
ing 42 years. Cultivation, mixed farming
and grazing leases are issued on a per-
petual tenure with the right to convert a
portion of the land into freehold on com-
pliance with prescribed conditions. Unoccu-
pied Crown lands may be applied for and
taken up under grazing license on an
annual tenure at a minimum rental of Is.
per square mile, together with a fee of £l.
How to treat a calf affected with white
scour? —9987.
Administer 2oz. castor oil. The sides of
pens and shelter sheds should be painted with
half a pint of carbolic acid to one gallon
of whitewash. All excreta should be
removed daily and the floor sprinkled with
disinfectant occasionally.
I have a cow, a pure-bred Jersey, second
calf, just in. She gives about 12 quarts
rich milk daily. The butter is very hard
to make, and very highly colored. It also
gets very hard after it is made and has a
strong cheesy taste. What’s the remedy?
■ —7 s.
There are several factors influencing the
hardness of butter. For a start, Jerseys and
Guernseys yield the hardest butterfats of
all breeds. Feed also has a big influence.
Feeds rich in starches and sugars, such as
bran, potatoes, cornmeal and grains low in
vegetable oils, tend to give a hard fat. Suc-
culent pastures containing a lot of clover
give a soft fat. Also towards the end of
the lactation period the butterfat becomes
harder no matter what the breed or feed.
The temperature of the cream is also of
importance. The lower the temperature the
harder the fat becomes, and it might pay you
to warm your cream slightly prior to churn-
ing. Possibly, too, the cream may be a
little thick; in this case you can thin
it down with skim milk. The deep yellow
color is distinctive of Jersey milk, particu-
larly at this time of year. Cheesy flavor is
due to bacterial or mould infection. A
thorough scalding of all utensils used in con-
nection with milk or cream is absolutely
essential. Probably disinfecting with sodium
hypochlorite would be helpful, and if the
milk or cream is kept in a cupboard or
safe this also should be disinfected.
I have 10 white Leghorn chicks a ivcek
old with a broody hen, kept in a small, well
sheltered run. They are fed on lettuce,
clean watei', skim millc and a mixture of
crushed ivheat, shellgrit and charcoal, the
mixture being given twice daily. (1) Will
this ration produce healthy pullets? (2)
Best ration for laying pullets? (3) Would
lettuce, green grass and sprouted grain be
satisfactory as green feed? I should prefer
to use as much crushed wheat or oats m
the ration as possible. —3ol.
(1) It might, but two parts crushed wheat
and one part crushed oats would give better
results than all crushed wheat, (2) Six
parts ground grain (equal quantities wheat
and oats), one part bran, 10 per cent, by
weight of dried buttermilk or meatmeal. (3j
Yes. You should put your shell grit and
charcoal into separate containers and allow
the birds to help themselves.
(1) Gan wallabies bo kept out of a fruit
farm by a barbed-wire fence? (2) If so,
how many wires and distance apart? (3)
Would it be cheaper than netting? (4)
Any other means of keeping them outf —50.
(1), (2) and (3) A well-constructed
fence made with marsupial netting is most
satisfactory, and is less costly than barbed-
wire. (4) If the orchard is securely netted,
a few good dogs should do the rest.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Osy W. W.”: Toss out your woolpacks
for a sunbath before using. It takes out
stiffness, and the bales are easier to sew up.
“Orel” : When dipping sheep for ticks give
the manufacturer a chance and follow the
directions. Making the dip weak is not
economy; it’s waste of time. Also remember
that the odd sheep left behind in the pad-
dock will re-infest the whole flock before
next shearing. The dip that will keep ticks
off for a whole year has not been invented.
When dipping in hot weather it is better to
yard 'the sheep overnight and start at day-
light ; knock off for the day not later than
nine o’clock. If the sheep can dry off in the
shade, so much the better, but don't attempt
to overheat them by driving them while they
are still wet. Early-morning dipping gives
the sheep a chance to dry before being turned
out to get a feed before dark.
“Grunter” : Pig-grazed lucerne needs care-
ful attention. Put on enough pigs to eat
down a paddock in a fortnight, don't let ’em
graze it too short, and then give it a month
or six weeks’ spell. Periodically run over it
with the mower after the pigs are taken off.
They have a tendency to leave stalks stand-
ing; if these are not cut the next growth
will come straggly. And tickle the ground
with the spring-tooth occasionally, particu-
larly if the pigs have been on it in a damp
time.
“Cullivel”: A common fault in yoking farm
teams is having the back band so long that it
flops. It should take a little weight and be
placed about the centre of the back, the object
being to keep the pull in one straight line
from the shoulder. And don’t let the hames
drop down and cause sores. Adjust to suit
different horses. For harrowing it is neces-
sary to have the team close to- the harrows,
thereby exerting a lifting pull in front
work. It is a good idea to keep a breast
collar on the farm and use it if a horse shows
signs of scald after a very hot day in the
collar.
“Bill R.” : When grubbing stumps a handy
tool can be made of an old cartspring leaf
and a four-feet length of piping. Cut off
about a third of the leaf, insert its end into
a flattened end of the pipe and secure it with
bolts or rivets, for which holes have been
drilled. With this implement earth and
stones otherwise inaccessible may be removed
from among roots and cavities.
“Orel” : Sump oil is useful for preserving
shovel- and pick-handles. Also a couple of
coats put on with a whitewash brush are
a good substitute for paint on yard gates or
any outside woodwork.
“Sofala”: Rivets are handy for repairing
harness in a hurry, but it is better to have
a .small saddler’s kit and make a neat 30b
of it 011 a wet day. Get a couple of packets
of harness needles, awls of assorted sizes,
a ball of hemp and some pitch. Round and
oval leather punches are useful for straps
and buckles. A pair of clamps can be home-
made if desired, and edge tools and creasers
can be done without, A saddler’s round
knife is a useful addition, but a strong, sharp
knife will do.
“Gardener”: Home-drying stone fruit for
winter use is worth while. A few trays of
netting or slats, and the sunshine will do
the rest. Bring them in each night and
store them air-tight when quite dry.
Peaches and apricots need stoning and
halving; figs and plums are dried as they
are; apples and pears are best sliced.
“Gardener”: If the cucumbers have to
clamber over a few bushes they will bear
better and larger fruit.
“H'oni Pikau”: In Pukekohe (MX.)
a great potato district, farmers use up to a
ten of artificial fertiliser per acre. Whilst
not advocating qnite such a heavy dressing
I am of the opinion that scwt. super.. 3cwt.
bonedust and lewt. sulphate of potash will
pay handsomely. Another mixture that has
given a yield of over 13 tons per acre is
14cwt. super., bonedust, fewt. sul-
phate of ammonia and fewt. sulphate of
potash.
“McL”: Neatsfoot or castor oil is the
best for harness. When applied to a saddle,
treat afterwards with the white of an egg;
this imparts a gloss, and the oil won’t
spoil your “strides.”


7he cen/r*e of Queens/onc/s
'c/is/ingu/shec/ Socio/ Life.
motel
Cnrasn
BRISBANE
-Wv-
Magnificent Ball*
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’x t Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 83211 —6 Lines.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. s
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
N .l. PERPETUAL FORESTS LTD.
The World’s largest Commercial Forestry Co.
Subscribed Share Capital £240,619
Bonds Subscribed exceed £3,400,000
Funds lodged with Trustees exceed £528,671
(Including over £283,237 invested in Australian Government Securities.)
Area planted Approx. 120,000 acres
Bankers Bank of New Zealand and their Agents
Head Office Kembia Building, Margaret Street, Sydney
Sole Brokers Smith Wylie & Co., Ltd.
Branches: Throughout Australia, New Zealand and the Federated Malay States. London, Bombay,
Java, Hong Kong and Shanghai.
HOWARD HOTEL
LONDON
ELEGANCE AND LUXURY.
Every bedroom is fitted with hot and cold
water, central heating and telephone. Many
bedrooms with private bathrooms and elegant
suites. The Restaurant serves the finest of
foods and wines. The lounges are spacious
and luxurious. Bedrooms from 10/6.
Send for Illustrated Booklet to
“The Bulletin,” Sydney.
NORFOLK ST., STRAND
SMOKE-OH!
“Every girl should cut out her own frocks.”
—Dressmaking advt.
But she does —as far as the police will
let her.
* ¥
“What would be thought in the better-class ball-
rooms of a bottle introduced into the dancing throng
to settle a dispute between rivals?”— “News.”
It would probably make a terrific hit.
* *
“There are more unemployed musicians in Australia
than ever.”
Even the violinists can’t scrape out a
living.
* *
“The police are concerned at the increase of offences
by mere boys.”— “Sun.”
Let’s hope the boys’ fathers will resort to
stern measures.
* *
FARMYARD REFLECTION.
The Cow is not a conjurer
Hydraulic rules to flout.
No ; it obeys the pood old law —
You’ve got to fill it up before
You start to bail it out.
HIS EARLY START.
MRS. SUB BUBS (to Mrs Pushin, making her first return call): “I understand your
husband met with success early in life.”
MRS. PUSHIN : "Oh, yes. He’d only just turned twenty when we were married.”
“Fifteen Years’ Imprisonment.”— “Sun.”
A sentence like that is long enough to take
away anybody’s breath.
FALL OF LANGINUS.
(From Gibber’s “Boom and Bust of the
Auburn Empire.”)
“The most disgraceful and serious riot ever associ-
ated with an organised assembly followed a motion
at Sydney Trades Hall condemning the Lang Gov-
ernment for batoning the unemployed. Mr. Jock
Garden was seriously injured by Communists. Not
till the disgraceful uprising had subsided did the
police appear.”—Labor paper.
In his brief reign the Emperor Langinus
(known as The Promiser) had experienced
all the vicissitudes, and few of the boons,
which fickle Fortune reserves for her cour-
tiers. From a humble Auburn estate (or,
as some said, capitalistic estate agency)
he had raised himself to greatness by con-
demning in the Senate, in the homes of the
Plebs and in the forum the crimes of the
Rothbury Praetorians. His supporter and
sycophant, the consul Gardenius, had joined
him in deriding the courage, denouncing the
churlishness, and denying the capacity of the
Bashers.
And now ( vide Sol. Editorial lxxxiv) a
spirit of rebellion diffused itself through ail
the camps, garrisons, caves and underground
engineering shops of the Plebs. The Muscovy
captain, Ike Moscovski (“The Sockless’’),
summoning to himself a heterogeneous army
of Communisti, equipped it with blue metal,
and marched it against Langinus, who took
refuge in precipitate flight. The despair of
the Emperor impelled him to a course which,
had not the cares of Office sapped his
courage, and the delights of Power clouded
his judgment, he would have recoiled from in
loathing. He ’phoned for the Bashers.
The Bashers’ Captain, one Branniganus,
a Hibernian, might have crushed the
Emperor’s infant enemy which —still devoid,
as it was, of any weapons but those of
Nature’s providing—floated between the
extremes of homicidal mania and of intense
nervousness. But Branniganus had fought
at Rothbur.v. He was a veteran of the
bloodied Maitland sector. (See Custos. Edi-
torial lxxv). li'e was said to have united
with the ablest handling of a baton the most
forcible application of a boot. Both Emperor
and consul Jock had, in speeches as inflamma-
tory as they were illiterate, clamored that the
officer should be rusticated as a public
menace, or repudiated as a potential mur-
derer.
The vindictive Praetorian’s reply to
Ids Emperor’s agonised appeal has been
handed down to us by a contemporary. Tilt
expressive conciseness of that classic mes-
sage has deserved to exercise the diligence
of innumerable antiquarians and to excite
the genius and penetration of the party poli-
ticians of all time. “Tell him,” said Bvan-
niganus ( antiqua homo virtute ac fide), “to
go and boil himself —and that goes for his
Bolshie pal, too.” Whereat he imperturb-
ably resumed his interrupted study of
chariot-racing form.
So fell Langinus, with all his wounds
behind him, the Communisti having fortified
their waning courage and strengthened their
inadequate artillery with a supply of chair-
legs from the Trades Hall. He was obliged
to spend several months, most of them on
his face, at an Auburn. hospital; and during
that time, his crafty rival, Bavinius the
Lawyer, took the opportunity to consolidate
his party, precipitate a general election, and
seize the taxing-machine.
J. B. D.
¥ #
“A Sydney bankrupt told the Registrar that the
police action' under the licensing laws had put him
out of business.”
They gave him what is known as the
Constable Chuck out.
¥ ¥
“Wanted, small tame cat, for stage.” —Melbourne
Tivoli advt.
These are times when vaudeville can’t
afford to toy with Avild cats.
* *
“A barmaid has told a Sydney paper that she can
always tell whether a customer is married or single.”
On the principle, possibly, that a married
man is always a mug.
A SPORTSMAN’S PARADISE.
“Mr. Dibbs, grandson of the former N.S.W. poli-
tician, has arrived in Sydney as representative of
Pickford’s travel service. He says that Australia may
expect many British and American tourists in the
coming year, chiefly in quest of sport.”—' “News.”
The great advantage is that our visitors
will not have to go into the wilds of the
bush in quest of good hunting. Thus little
dear-stalking is mostly confined to the
narrow strips of sand adjacent to our capi-
tals. Some good sitting shots are also pos-
sible in our hotel lounges. These dears are
A TREAT IN STORE.
“I’m sorry to hear you’re suffering so from sunburn, Miss
De Beans.”
“Ooh, Canon, what you can hear is nothing alongside what you
could see if I was to take off me clothes.”
fast, will horn in anywhere and possess a
ferocious bite.
White elephants are numerous and on the
increase. A trip to the breeding-grounds,
Canberra, is advised, but some splendid speci-
mens may be secured in Macquarie-street,
Sydney.
The annual round-up of wild cows by the
taxation wallahs does not offer much in
the way of excitement. The true sportsman
rebels against drawing a bead on these herds
of poor brutes hunted and goaded until they
are almost too weak to stand up. But for
those who care for such sorry sport it may
be mentioned that there are (1,000,000 of
them, all in poor financial condition and get-
ting poorer.
The lean times have thinned out the
“bulls,” “bears” arid “wild cats.” but the
“Daily Guardian” can always dig up a sea
serpent and the “Labor Daily” a capitalistic
octopus, while the Man About Town of tin l
“Evening News” can sometimes be induced
to trot out one of the social lions.
D. McM.
SACRIFICE.
Acting under imperative instructions from
his wife, Mr. Horace Blotto has decided upon
a genuine Balance-the-Budget Sale. Every
line to go. Some leading bargains:—
Secretary. 'Age 20. Sports model. Freshly
nainted. As new.
Guide to Racing Form, bound in real goat-
skin. Also letters of introduction to 14 s.p.
bookmakers, and old family recipe for
Dynamite Cocktail.
Fisherman’s outfit. This comprises portion
of a fishing-line and six good demijohns, all
in perfect working order.
Motor-car equipped with four-wheel and
many other breaks. In first-class parking
order. Box of blue metal for discouragement
of touts goes with this attractive outfit.
A varied assortment of decanters (empty)
hip-flasks (empty), playing-cards, glasses,
betting-chips, corkscrews, etc., etc., to be
sold in one lot.
M.
THE WOOZLE HORROR.
Police Baffled : “The Butter-in” to the
Rescue.
Our Alienist’s Brilliant Reconstruction of
the Crime.
The slayer of Israel (“Izzo”) Woozle
remains at large. He roams the streets. lie
drinks in God’s fresh air and sunshine. lie
laughs. He talks —unless dumb, an improb-
able contingency.
To make a long story short, he hasn’t been
arrested. “The Butter-in” has therefore
detailed one of its foremost crime experts
to elucidate the mystery. His conclusions
are hereby placed at the disposal of the
Crown Law Office.
Israel Woozle (“Izzo” to his colleagues of Bottle-
menders, Ltd.) is no more. His cheeks are pale—
as, indeed, is the rest of him —with the grim pallor
of Death. His eyes will not gaze upon Earth’s love-
liness more. They have been closed by the remorse-
less, the stark, hand of the Grim Reaper....
“Izzo” was of a friendly nature when nothing
occurred to make him un-
friendly. “How goes it?”
“Good-oh,” “Well, too-
rooloo, boys”—such ex-
pressions were often on
his lips. One of his
mates disclosed as much
to the writer. But none
will hear “Izzo’s” voice
raised in greeting again.
The Unknown has claimed
him. And the vast,
irremediable silence of
the Tomb. And unfor-
getting, unrelenting
Mystery....
Away in No. 8 flat
(oth floor) of Bulgerino
Hall, Darlinghurst, the
Little Mother is waiting,
waiting, in stricken grief,
for the boy who will no
more return. Waiting. . .
Mrs. Woozle, divorced
wife of the well-known
city barman of that ilk,
is not strictly speaking
a Little Mother. The
term is figurative. She
is, in fact, a lady of
imposing height and
weight, and of consider-
able force of character.
“I don’t know who
plugged him,” she said,
“and if I did I wouldn't
say, not being anxious to cop one myself. But
you can lay it was one of the mob. Most of the
cows had it in for him.”
This, coupled with the medical testimony that
deceased was shot in the back from a distance of
several yards, seems to dispose of the suicide theory
which “The Butter-in” was the first to advance.
The trained mind is thus enabled to envisage the
callous outrage in all its grisly horror. “Izzo” is
walking along the street (or standing in it, or lying
on his face, or climbing a wall, as the case may be)
when the Killer fires the fatal shot from behind.
Blood flows from the wound. Red blood, an almost
invariable concomitant of crimes of this description.
“Izzo’s” clothes, the clothes he had donned only
that morning (unless he had slept the night in
them), are stained with the gory fluid. And the
cold, unresponsive street. Aye, and blood is on the
soul of his assassin, too. The victim writhes—
unless his soul crashed to the Great Beyond at once,
which, to say the least, is unlikely. Eventually
the poor bruised spirit goes to face its Maker. The
corpse lies there, lifeless, immovable, inanimate.
Soon to be referred to in a Coroner’s Court as “the
remains”.... It is the end.... ,
With this striking example of close, logical
reasoning “The Butter-in” draws a curtain
over the pitiful scene for the next 24 hours ,
hoping, yet doubting, that its expert’s deduc-
tions may aid our dilatory police to bring an
atrocious malefactor to the bar of British
justice.
10-2-4.
# *
Before he marries man is free.
And this each husband strikes —
After he weds his idol he
Still does just as she likes.
THE SOUVENIR.
RETURNED MISSIONARY: “Your poor husband
was killed and eaten, but I’ve brought
you back”
WIFE "YeS ?”
R.M.: “Ah, two buttons off his trousers.”
GRAZIER'S PRAYER.
Cursed be the man, whate’er his race or ilk,
Who first invented artificial silk!
Show me the person who would rather keep
Synthetic silkworms than merino sheep.
How could a squatter find fit words to croon
About his latest pedigree cocoon ;
Or ask the representatives of firms
To come and see the classing of his wormsf
Perish the loathsome thought!
And let us pray
1 hat, as it ought,
May quickly dawn the day
When men no longer bogus silk will spin,
But will unanimously realise
The place for wool is always next the skin,
And not across the eyes.
J. D. G. M.
JUDICIAL SUPPORT.
“On appeal, convictions against a publican and
half a dozen Grafton men for being on licensed
premises after hours have been upset. The appeal
Judge said he was satisfied the men were there to
listen to the cricket scores.”
You doubting wives who wonder why
We come home late, and answer “Fudge!”
To our excuses, or “You lie!”
Remember that a learned Judge
A good old yarn doth now endorse , —
“Bin lish’tning torrer cricketsh scorsh!”
HAMER.


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Tariff.
Day. Week.
Single Room and Meals .. .. 25/- 168/-
Double Room and Meals .. .. 45/- 300/-
Single Room and Breakfast .. 15/- 100/-
Double Room and Breakfast .. 27/6 182/6
Telephone: F 4141.
1931.
Resolve to open a Savings Bank account! Save a little each week—
or each month—and employ the Commonwealth Savings Bank as your
safe and patient assistant.
The man with a Savings Account is not only happier, for the possession
of some ready-money resources he is stimulated to increase these
resources, to his ultimate great benefit.
If you do not open a general Savings Account, at least start a Purpose
Account—one in which you save for a specific purpose during a definite
period of time. Provide by easy degrees for a payment at a selected
date or for the discharge of a future obligation.
A New Year approaches. You can make it one of progress and
satisfaction.
Commonwealth Savings JIM of Australia
( Guaranteed, by the Commonwealth Government.)
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Honi Pikau”: H'enare Waipiro explained
to me why he had left the job of cow-spanking
for Jock McMean, of Crooked Bend. “Py
tripes! ehoa, he te hart man tat ferrer.
THE FAMILY GALLERY.
GOGGS : “This is a photo of my wife’s first husband?”
MOGGS: “B-but I wasn’t aware she had been married before!”
GOGGS: “No, she wasn’t. I’ve filled out a bit, haven’t I?”
I reave him. He and te job can stop there.
More proomin’ tinner times tan tinners at
tat prace!”
* *
“Up North” : The were-wolf superstitions
of the Old World have their parallel in New
Guinea. Papuan tribes believe that the sor-
cerer is allied to the alligator, and that man
and beast commune together in dead of night
upon the mud of some forest-lined stream.
Should the sorcerer desire the life of an
enemy at the jaws of an alligator lie
waits his opportunity to secure the
footprint of his prospective victim in
the mud of the river bank. This foot-
print he carefully scoops out, and
dries it in his house at night, droning
strange chants over it the while. On
the first occasion when the stars are
propitious he takes the footprint to
the ’gator, which smells it. The sor-
cerer then tells his listening ally
where his enemy’s favorite fishing
rendezvous is. The ’gator glides away.
He may have to await his chance for
days, weeks or months, but he usually
gets his man. Sometimes vengeance
is taken against the sorcerer, as in a
fairly recent instance in the Delta
Division. Boma, the beloved daughter
of Goro, was taken by a ’gator while
fishing in her father’s canoe. Goro
blamed Kabaru the sorcerer, well
known to be his enemy. Goro assem-
bled numerous friends, sneaked
through the gardens, surrounded Kab-
aru s house and put 11 arrows through
his body. The sequel was that Kab-
aru’s friends put 22 arrows in the body
ot a friend of Goro’s who had had nothing
to do with the killing of Kabaru.
* * * *
Nomdy Ploom” : Indoor sports have risen
against the invasion of their province by
outdoor games. Magnature pastimes are
coming to the fore. A game of magnature
snakes and ladders was recently played by
devotees at the Randwick racecourse with
the aid of the fire department and a couple
of pythons from Taronga Park. The die,
a neatly spotted 400-gallon tank, was rolled
by a steam navvy. After the first few
throws it was discovered that the presi-
dent of the club was inside the tank; he
was very rattled when he got out. Mel-
bourne adherents played a magnature game
of kiss-in-the-ring at Essendon Aerodrome,
about 3000 people taking part. Only one
member kissed his way right around. He
was a boy scout.
* s|s *
“P. J.”: An extraordinary disease called
latali is prevalent in the Malay States.
To anyone who has never seen latah before
the gesticulations of the sufferers appear
at first funny or offensive, until it is ex-
plained that a person afflicted with it will,
if suddenly startled, fall into a hypnotic-
state and imitate the gesture of anything
in sight. For instance, an old lady sud-
denly startled by a bicycle bell will violently
imitate the pedalling of a cyclist until she
falls down exhausted. That the victims
make these movements entirely against their
will is evident when one considers th 4 pranks
that are played on well-known latahs. I
have seen them jump off a lugger in shark-
infested waters, drop trays of drinks, and
crow like a rooster at a sharp command.
What causes latah is unknown ; there is a
theory that it is associated with betel-nut
chewing.
WHAT HAD BECOME OF MR. DIBBLE?
“Madam, ’ave I the honor of ad(hic) dressing Mrs. Dibble.”
“I am, Mrs. Dibble.”
“Then wou-would you mind telling us if Mr. Di-bibble is at home, or have we
delivered him to the (hie) wrong house?”
“Georgina Washingday”: It was Sunday
afternoon and I was out on the lawn with
a book, while half a dozen magpies were
prospecting for worms near by,
when young Aristotle, our cat,
appeared with a mouse in his
mouth. He is young and full of
enthusiasm, and when he catches
a mouse he likes to get every pos-
sible thrill out of the affair. After
proudly displaying his catch he
settled down to the usual cruel
business of pretending to let the
poor little wretch escape, only to
pounce once more and bring it
back. The lawn is wide and mown
very short, so that there was no
cover for u long distance, and
Thomas allowed the mouse a good
deal of rope. It had feebly tra-
velled quite a little distance away
when suddenly there was a bit of
a brawl among the magpies, and
several of them flew up together.
Thomas turned his head) to look at
them, and at that instant a magpie
swooped in its flight, caught up
the mouse without a second’s pause,
and carried it to a gatepost, where
a few whacks and a gulp or two
ended its adventures. Meanwhile
Thomas turned his attention back
to his own little entertainment,
with an air of pleased expectancy.
He registered in rapid succession
surprise, bewilderment, anxiety and
consternation, and he searched that
lawn over and over again, looking
more disgusted and worried every minute. It
was an hour before he finally gave it up. He
now regards me with deep suspicion.
* * =jc *
“Dai R.” : I’ve often heard bushmen argu-
ing whether horses can see in the dark, and
the ayes have generally had it. I’ve always
doubted the possession of the faculty, but
my scepticism has received a severe jolt. On
a night as ebon as a repudiationist’s con-
science I was galloping on a life-or-death
errand at a break-neck pace along a road
I believed to be gateless. The doctor was
getting nearer at a brisk rate, and I was
just telling myself what a fine equestrian
I was when my prad stopped dead and I
sat on his neck. Clambering from this undig-
nified position I shed much perspiration at
the discovery of a stout five-barred iron
gate a foot in front of his nose. The steed
had never been along that road before.
ifc lj! * sK
“Mr. Cato”: The camera man called at
Dad’s farm and explained that he was
taking an educational film of Australian
rural industries, and wanted a farm
scene to complete a reel. Given permission,
he went down the paddock, piloted by Dave.
On their return Dad said: “Did yer catch
any of them blokes of mine in motion?” The
fjhotographer replied that he had. “Yer
did?” exclaimed Dad. “Well, I takes off
me hat to science !”
h= * * *
“Mundowie”: The civilised donkey is a
harmless-looking prad that youngsters
straddle and take liberties with. But when
the little horse with the cow’s tail goes bush,
as he has done in northern parts of S.A.,
where mobs of the small brumbies have pro-
vided profitable hunting, he leaves his
manners behind him and belies the tame
traditions of his race. I have heard stock-
men say that they would rather deal with
wild cattle than with wild donkeys, for the
little beasts are savagely resentful when the
freedom they have been born into is inter-
fered with. They are game and nimble, too.
They charge fiercely when cornered, biting
like a camel and kicking like an irritated
earthquake. When lassoed and choked to
a standstill, a tight noseband is slipped on
to put the vicious jaws out of action, and
.then Donk displays a stubbornness that
beats the mule. But there is plenty of
excitement in capturing him.
* * * *
“Werrimee”: The Backblocks, especially
Queensland, have produced many hefty abos.
I saw several black women in one camp on
the Maranoa who topped 6ft. Normanton
district had a powerful Binghi who stood
6ft. Tin. Mount Browne (N.S.W.) boasted
“Fat Tommy,” who at 19 weighed 22st.
and continued to pile on fat until he could
get about only on his hands and knees. At
Hambo Springs (N.Q.) there was an abo.
family known as “the ton of black.” The'
father weighed 18st., the mother 15st., a 16-
year-old boy 17st., a girl of 18 years 17st.
and a six-year-old boy 6st. That was in
1903.
(Continued on page 31.)
THE TURON IN ’FIFTY-THREE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Must ha' been passing good to be
Down on the Turon in ’fifty-three;
Must ha’ been foes
As well as friends
Working the shows
On the river bends.
Must ha’ .been riches and poverty
Down on the Turon in ’fifty-three.
Must ha’ been great in the shanties round
When they paid for booze with the gold they
found.
Oli. the bluffs and brags
Of those days of old
When they shod their nags
With the shoes of gold,
And the pipes were lit with a flash man’s
pound !
Must lia’ been great in the shanties round.
There are pug walls still where the wrecks
you see-
Of the diggers’ mansions of ’fifty-three.
Must ha’ been lots,
For the ruins tell
Of the tricky spots
Where they used to dwell;
Some on the hillside, and some would be
On the banks of the Turon in ’fifty-three.
Must ha’ been great, but the ones to see
The rush to the Turon in ’fifty-three
Have all gone west
And have missed the car,
And all of the rest
Of the things which are
Better perhaps than the gold to see,
And the life on the Turon in ’fifty-three.
N.S.W.
A. ROBERTS.


Made in Austra-
lia, financed by
Australians, and
produced b y
highly - trained
Australian
workers.
0 3
\
-
For Picnics and Outings there is nothing more
popular or convenient than Arnott’s Famous
Biscuits, packed in airtight tins, which keep
them rich and oven fresh.
The pure, rich ingredients of which
ARNOTT’S FAMOUS BISCUITS,
CAKES and PUDDINGS are made
have been matured in the clean, sunlit
spaces of our own Australia. Over
1800 persons are employed in the
actual making, and many thousands
are indirectly employed in the growing
of wheat, production of eggs, milk,
sugar, currants, raisins, etc., in the
distribution of the finished products.
These delicious Biscuits, Cakes and
Puddings are unsurpassed throughout
the world; they are manufactured
under conditions which have called
forth the highest praise from the
health authorities, and the name of
WILLIAM ARNOTT LTD.
the Biscuit Specialists of over sixty
years’ experience, is the highest pos-
sible guarantee of quality and purity.
AHNOTT
f
FAMO U S
Biscuinini
XMAS CAM
S
G
PUDDINGS


IS
0
H
-
n i
m
Air
vr
%
I
1
: '<G>
■:
X
- ; X
X
m
m
•.
Mb
#*•
- :
fdg
THE OLDEST HORSE
IN THE WORLD
Incomparable whisky
. .. incomparable bottle
OPENED IN AN INSTANT
NO CORKSCREW REQUIRED


Proper Feeding Is Essential
Feed a dog too often and he’s slug-
gish. Under-feed him and he’s weak.
KEN-L-RATION—the Dog Food Supreme-
is full of vitamins.lt is put up in tins, consisting
of red meat, fresh vegetables, cereals, ground
bone and cod liver 0i1..... Dogs seldom tire
of it..... Try a tin today.... All dealers stock it.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from JRK
W. C. SCHWAB, P.O. Box 1821, Melbourne
fd
JA
LEIPZIG SPRING
TRADE FAIR, 1931
gfd
(GERMANY).
Incorporating Great Engineering Fair until March 11.
The Greatest Trade Exhibition in the World.
Despite the heavy and almost’impossible Australian tariff legislation, Australian
business men and oversea buyers can profitably visit the 1931 Spring Fair at
Leipzig.
German manufacturers have marked their goods at such prices as to make
all purchases at the Spring Fair sell at a profit.
This means that the middleman is eliminated, and you deal direct with the
manufacturer.
The Great Spring Fair begins on MARCH 1, 1931.
INQUIRIES INVITED. All Official Data, Transport Concessions, Hotel Accom-
modation, Rail Service, etc., including Letters of Introduction, will be gladly
given—free of cost.
Authorised Representatives:
LARS G. BRUNDAHL,
121 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
- (’Phones': -B4OO6"and~MW22OI)
C. N. KEPPEL,
Box 585 D, G.P.0., Melbourne, Vic.
For the Spring and Summer
Evenings.
MONDAY TO FRIDAY.
DELIGHTFUL SUPPER DANCES.
Commencing at 9 a.m. and
finishing at 1 a.m.
SUPPER 5/-, including dancing.
Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY NIGHT. LATE NIGHT.
Evening Dress Only.
Special Supper from 9 p.m., 10/6
—dancing till 2 a.m.
JACK WOOD’S POPULAR
AMBASSADOR ORCHESTRA.
Afternoon Tea
Dansant
3.30 till 5.30, 2/6
Saturday . . 4/-
’Phone M 4131
“Pick”: Along the winding banks of the
Namoi (N.S.W.) dogs never go unshod. Only
by fitting them with boots of chamois leather
can their services be assured. The extremely
burry nature of the pastures throughout the
region is responsible. Over the river flats
grow vast quantities of spiky weeds of
various sorts. The champion nuisance is
the bindi-eye or cat’s-head burr. Massed
in far-spreading array, this weed —somewhat
like an ice plant in appearance—clothes
thousands of acres. It grows innumerable
pyramidal burrs with horny spines projecting
NOT QUITE SETTLED YET.
“He’s a hunting dog.”
“How exciting! But what does lie hunt?”
“We don’t know till he grows up. But he’s practising on fleas”
from every apex. When the ripening seed
pods fall one treacherous spine is always
pointed upwards, and all animals traversing
the region become lamed.
“Eureka”: On small islands off the
Queensland coast, near Bowen, I watched
goats apparently drinking the sea water.
There was no fresh water anywhere on these
islands, but the goats lived there for years.
Also on one occasion two ponies belonging
to the editor of the “Bowen Independent”
swam over to one of the islands (a dis-
tance of over a mile, by the way) and
remained there for a month. By carefully
watching the animals I discovered the secret.
I noticed that they always went to the lee
side of the island to drink, and always just
before sunrise. They sipped the water right
from the very edge of the sand. I tried it,
and found that at that time in the morning
the water for about three inches from the
edge was quite fresh.
* * * *
“Dogsbody”: Capt. Hayes, of the M.L.
Marine Department, offers a solution of a pro-
blem which has puzzled everybody for years.
Whitebait, or “inanga” as the Maoris call
this tiny fish, have been steadily decreasing in
numbers. It was thought that the depletion was
caused by the destruction of either the feed-
ing or spawning grounds of the fish. Captain
Hayes adduces evidence to show that the
whitebait spawn near the mouths of large
rivers at the height of the spring tides. The
spawn are deposited on rushes and grass at
the edge of the water and are fertilised in
the air. They are hatched when the next
spring tides reach them, in a fortnight to six
weeks. The Hayes theory is that introduced
animals such as sheep, cattle and horses feed
on the rushes and grasses forming the spawn-
ing grounds.
* $ *
“Jason”: Captain C. ,T. Ross (B.
12/11/’3O) was not the first king to reign on
Cocos. He supplanted Alexander Hare, a dis-
solute person who maintained a seraglio of 40
Malayan women. Ross revictualled there in
his ship Borneo in 182 G, and, captivated by
the charm of the place, returned next year
to settle there with his wife, family, ma-in-
law and eight Scottish settlers. He found
Hare in possession; after a period of friction
Hare left. Ross reigned for 30 years, when
Great Britain annexed the islands, which
are now under the jurisdiction of Singapore,
though the Ross family still retain property
rights.
:Jr $ :J:
“Boomi” : “Hydraulicus” (8., 12/11/’3O)
asks if anyone has actually seen a man or
animal completely engulfed by quicksands,
and doubts whether it could be possible,
since a man will float in water. A larsre
well-found steamer floats in water much
more easily than a man, but in 1919 I saw’
the Sanctoria, a modern steel steamer of
about 5000 tons, disappearing holus-bolus
into the .Tames and Mary Sands, at a bend
PROPRIETOR OF THE "REFINED COUNTRY HOME” : “Leaving us to-day, are you—ajter only
a week? Why, our last guests stayed with us four months!”
MR. MILVANEY: “And glad I am to hear you say it. I was t’inkin’ I was the biggest
fool in Australia, and I foind I’m not.”
of the Ilugli some miles below Calcutta.
These quicksands have engulfed many ships,
but the Sanatoria incident was notable on
account of the vessel’s size and power. As
she steamed up the river she missed the
channel and touched the sands, and neither
her own power nor tugs could pull her back.
When I passed up the Ilugli some time
afterwards aboard the Bellata she was sink-
ing on an even keel, only the tops of her
funnel and masts being thep visible.
:i; * =1:
“Tid’apa”: It is proposed to form a
bird-banding club in Australia. Prior to
1920 these societies were practically un-
known in any country, but at the present
time they flourish in both Britain and the
United States. Investigators familiar with the
bird life of their countries capture wild birds
and place a numbered aluminium band on the
leg of each, a careful record being taken
of each bird so banded. Each disc bears the
date of banding and the address of a central
office to which duplicate copies of each record
are sent. The bird is released, and the finder
is requested to forward the band to this
central office, and so help in determining the
facts about the migratory flight of birds.
Remarkable discoveries have already been
made. For instance, a fledgling tern banded
in 1928 on Muscongus Bay, Maine, was two
years later found by a negro on a branch of
' the Niger. The native took his find
to the district missionary, with the result
that the band and the record wore returned
to the central office in the U.S.A.
* $ ❖ *
“Wynne”: “Jurigor” (B. 29/10/’3O) is a
little misleading when he says there is no
Australind. Of the city so carefully planned
on paper there certainly is nothing, but a
small settlement has persisted on the Lesche-
nault estuary at Australind since the begin-
ning of the W.A. Land Co.’s venture in 1841,
and among the residents there are direct
descendants of Marshal Waller Clifton, com-
mandant of the original settlement. Austra-
lind is about eight miles from Bunbury,
and the road from that city runs along the
shores of the estuary and across the Collie
River, offering a very beautiful drive. Travel-
lers are familiar with the tiny church set
down by the roadside at Australind —the
smallest church in W.A.
“Nora J.”: While motoring round the
West Coast of Hawaii, my brother and I
were passing over some rough country about
dusk, making for Kona. A young Japanese
signalled us to stop, and begged for a lift to
the nearest little seaport. Brother scowled
“Give him a lift,” I said. When we were
within a mile of the village he asked us to
drop him. Before we left Kona next day the
place was in an uproar; parties of police and
bands of searchers everywhere. Our pro-
tege had murdered his mother-in-law the
afternoon before. It was suspected that he
had got away on a cattle-boat that had left
that evening, but the mystery was how he
had so swiftly covered the 40 miles to the
port from the time the murder was com-
mitted. We thought it discreet not to
mingle in the debate.
:|e * * *
“Parakiore” : An ancient method of resusci-
tating the apparently drowned was revived
the other day by a N.S.W. farmer. On re-
covering the seemingly defunct bodies of his
wife and child from the murky waters of a
dam he proceeded, after clearing their mouths
and nostrils of mud and slime, to blow into
their mouths, thereby inflating the lungs, and
saving both lives. Biblical mention is made
of this method, and in various old English
county records it is recommended as a last
resource. The Maori method is to suspend
the unconscious person over a fire emitting a
pungent smoke, the effect of which is to
cause spasmodic convulsions of the muscles
influencing the respiratory organs, thus in-
ducing renewed breathing. In several cases
witnessed by the writer this succeeded.
* * * *
“X.N.V.” (Samarai, Papua) : Recently
one of my native “boys” died in hospital.
That night my wife and I had retired and
were reading for a while. My wife kept
awake, but I dropped asleep quickly. The
next thing I remember is being nudged in
the ribs and told there was someone knock-
ing at the front door. I went to investi-
gate. The moon was shining with a bril-
liancy witnessed only in the tropics, and I
could see there was nobody in the garden.
I went back to bed. and was just preparing
to resume my interrupted slumbers when it
happened again, but at the back door—three
or four distinct knocks. I got out of bed
quickly, opened the door and ran into. the
yard, but it was deserted. While waiting
on the breakfast table next morning the
liouseboy volunteered the information that
he and his assistant had been badly scared,
as the “small boy” (the one who had died)
“walk-about last night outside boy-house and
make noise along shed.” Later I questioned
him and his mate, and they both declared
they heard the departed one’s footsteps out-
side on the gravel for about 20 minutes, just
at the time I and my wife heard the knock-
ing.
THE TWO-FACED WENCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN:]
The Sea’s a tricky, two-faced wench,
As any sailor knows,
And, cold or kind,
With changing mind
For every wind that blows.
Beware her smile!
'Tis full of guile,
More deadly than her frown.
She’s thinking, then, of sinking men
Who drown, and drown, and drown!
With all the Polls, and Sails, and Dolls
She likes to cut a shine,
In lace and silk
As soft as milk,
And silver stockings fine.
Her sweet, salt kiss. . . . !
Give that a miss;
’Tis not for Love alone.
Her teeth are white, but they can bite,
Down to the very bone!
Yet, when she loves, she loves you well;
And when she don’t she hates.
.Deep in the dark
The dreadful shark
Keeps guard beside her gates.
Her toll she takes,
And reckoning makes-
Of all the million bones
That strew the decks of all the wrecks
Of Captain Davy Jones.
The Sea’s a callous, heartless jade,
When all is done and told.
To him that lives
She little gives
Of fame, or gear, or gold;
And scarce a sigh
For those who die —
But, down beneath the wave,
She lets them rest within her breast —•
A proper sailor’s grave!
S.A.
CHARLES HENRY SOUTER.


\ x
i
\r
r\
r\
' Cuticura
i Shaving Stick
k Begin enjoying your shave today!
What better way to start the day
k than to shave with Cutidira
' Shaving Stick. It gives you
k a clean, smooth shave without the
* slightest irritation and leaves the
skin in good condition.
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
k Soap la. Ointment Ib. and 2s. Talcum la. 3d.
I Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S.W.
IT MAY BE HARD TO SAVE
BUT IT PAYS!
Many thousands of depositors are
thankful now that in the past they
saved some of their earnings. . . .
Look ahead! A Savings Bank
balance provides for future
difficulties and opportunities. . . .
SAVE REGULARLY
USE THE
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK
OF N.S.W.
4 per cent, interest paid up to £l,OOO.
J9Z Branches; 644 Agencies. No Agencies at Post Offices.
HAIR
V<
tr
NEED
u°
HIRES
WIU) -
g
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
SfrCjl&ris (.MEXICAN)
UkUnui StoMi
THE GREY
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct HI6), 6d. being postage.
w
HEALTH AND HAPPINESS
-WITH ENO
/;
I ike sunshine and open air
and a strenuous game,
Eno is one of the fine,
healthy things of life* Spark-
ling in the glass! Dancing
for joy!
Taken first thing every
morning just a dash
in a glass of water —
Eno’s u Fruit Salt” retains
enough fluid in the food
canal to dismiss the waste
and poisons from your sys-
tem, safely, naturally and
thoroughly* And so, by
purifying your blood and
keeping it always clean and
vigorous, Eno brings fresh-
ness and high spirits for
every hour of the longest
day*
Ask yourself now whether
you might’nt be getting more
of happiness and energy
which good health always
brings* And if the answer is
YES —then start the daily
glass of Eno — tomorrow ;
words €>no and tr( 3ru\t Salt”
are registered trade marks.
Sales dPlgents:
‘Rohe eKarold < 3. Siitchie
& Go. J€td., Sydney, £N.S. c lsD.
MO'S
mm salt
, 1 11 tiiitiii
'/!
I
i
ss


fdg
BY APPOINTMENT
CM. for
G©ipd©ii v s
GIN
The ingredients used in the production of
GORDON’S GIN are of the finest quality
procurable, and contain the greatest per-
centage of those important properties which
are considered by the Medical profession to
be most beneficial to the human system. It
is very highly rectified and contains no im-
purities of any kind, it is therefore very
easily digested and also aids the digestion of
other beverages with which it is mixed.
The name “ GORDON ” guarantees the very
highest standard of quality and absolute
purity; a reputation enjoyed and jealously
guarded for over 150 years.
The Largest Gin Distillers in the World
WHITEST
PUREST
& BEST
Oil
VT
r
Gordons
AM
DRYGIN
DISTILLERY.
LONDON.
fe-
The Heart
of a good
Cocktail
fd
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
SaveMomif
€J
?
D
n
YOU can easily avoid
costly tyre trouble
by keeping your tyres
properly inflated. But
you must use an accu-
rate, durable gauge. The
Schrader Gauge is such
a gauge.
Buy a Schrader Gauge
from any tyre or acces-
sory supplier. Keep it
always in your car. Use it
regularly at least once a
week and before long
trips. It will save its small
cost in increased tyre
service many times over.
Schrader Gauges are
sturdy, dependable, easy
to use, easy to read.
m*.
I
Be Sure It’s a
SCHRADER
Look For
The Name
Schrader
Makers of Pneumatic
Valves Since 1844
Tyre Valves
Tyre Gauges
SHADOW SHOWS.
“The Bad One” (United Artists), at Mel-
bourne State, casts Dolores Del Rio in the
part of Lita, a cabaret dancer, who meets
Edmund Lowe as Jerry Flanagan, an Ameri-
can Irishman with the allegedly Hibernian
characteristic of lack of self-control. He
acquires the latter virtue in an island prison
in the Mediterranean, where the French law
sends him to expiate the crime of killing a
rival for Lita’s love. With highly creditable
devotion, if little regard for the probabilities,
Lita gets to know the cruellest warder in
the place, and induces him to take her to the
island on a promise of matrimony. There
she succeeds in obtaining an interview with
her lover, French prison discipline being a
mixture of the most intense ferocity and
romantic sentiment. Having learnt that
Lita is to marry the brutal gaoler on the
morrow, Jerry joins forces with a conspiracy
to escape. The gaoler precipitates the out-
break by an attack on Jerry, and there is a
realistic picture of what a prison mutiny is
like. The warders are finally driven back
to the warden’s offices, which are divided
from the prison by a narrow bridge covered
by machine-gun fire. There is some spirited
fighting for the bridge, which is finally blown
up by Jerry to prevent his fellow-prisoners
carrying out their threat to slaughter the
entire staff, man, woman and child. For
this action he obtains his release and flies
to Lita’s seductive arms. This is a well-
handled story of its melodramatic kind, and
it provides State habitues with sufficient
screen murder and massacre to tide them
ever any temporary shortage of the real
thing outside.
H- * *
The title of “On Your Back” (Fox
Movietone), which was unwound for the
first time in Australia at Sydney Regent,
derives from an East-side modiste's slogan
“Wear Your Brains on Your Back.” Irene
Rich is the modiste, and she climbs from
the hand-barrow surroundings of a New York
slum to the sartorial Ivinchenjunga, which
is Fifth-avenue. On her back she carries
her son, Raymond Hackett, on whom her
every thought is concentrated. While Ray-
mond is at college the mother meets H. B.
Warner, plutocrat and chorine-chaser; Ray-
mond falls in love with Marion Shilling, who
is an out-of-work ballet-dancer for the occa-
sion ; and the rest of the show consists of
efforts by Irene, assisted by H'. B. Warner,
to ruin the young folks’ happiness. Warner
undertakes the job of proving that Marion
is no better than she should be, but makes
a complete failure of it. The mother relents.
Love triumphs. All is well.
This summary does not do justice to the
clever dialogue and sound construction of
an excellent play. The acting of those named
could hardly be surpassed, and the subsi-
diaries are the equals, technically, of the
stars. Ilka Chase as Marion’s serio-comic
friend is as good as anything in the show.
The dressing of the women is beautiful,
also the form and design of most of the sets.
Artists detected the form-values in screen
pictures years ago. But in those days effects
wore mostly achieved bv accident There
!i, k red G bv Thom mbort ”*
tured by them.
* * *
“Man Trouble,” another Fox Movietone at
the Regent, is on a humbler plane. It deals
with hi-jackers, racketeers and thugs, and
they are presented as they no doubt live,
Dorothy Mackail, as a down-and-out lady of
joy, tries to drown herself because of “man
trouble” at a time when Milton Sills is at
the docks seeing that the Drennan gang
doesn’t hi-jack his stuff. What could a
gangster of sentiment do but go in after her,
and subsequently give her a job in his night
club? Then Kenneth Maclvenna, young,
dapper, idealistic, simpers into her life, and
every student of this type of play knows that
Milton’s hours are numbered. With his
dying breath the noble-hearted desperado
hands the lady over to his successful rival
together with a somewhat unconvincing testi
monial to her virtue. Sills gives a great
performance as the hero-villain, and some
character acting of the first water is supplied
by James Bradbury, Harvey Clarke and
Edythe Chapman.
% #
„ , ,-„x „.
Af 1h (Columbia), seen i'icentlj at
A ‘ . 1S J* e
lonely girl in the Ne\\ \ork cafeteria.
K complSTTd
250,000 dahlers made in the hardware trade.
On the eve of the wedding she discovers that
there is something more valuable in life than
money and cars, and that it sounds most
beautiful when if. is pronounced through the
nose of the good-looking young man with the
aggressive wooing ways and no balance at the
bank. The last-named deficiency he proposes
to make good by breaking and entering. She
shoots him in the arm to prevent him doing
this, and, not to bo outdone in nobility and
unreal sentiment, he gives himself up to the
cops so that he can purge his sin in gaol,
She applauds his decision and promises to
wait for him, as would every romantic-
minded female in her place..
A feature of these machine-made comedy
dramas of low life is their deadly seriousness,
The American scenarists who can write
with tongue in cheek are few and far between.


Position Vacant.
A. S. P. A. SECRETARYSHIP.
THE AUSTRALIAN SUGAR PRO-
-1 DUCERS’ ASSOCIATION, LIMITED,
invites applications for the position of
GENERAL SECRETARY to the associa-
tion. Salary £lOOO per annum. Duties to
commence about Ist MARCH, 1931.
Applications (accompanied by copies of
testimonials) in sealed envelopes endorsed
“APPLICATION FOR SECRETARY-
SHIP” and addressed to the President, The
Australian Sugar Producers’ Association,
Limited, Q.P.I. Building, Adelaide Street,
Brisbane, should reach the above address
on or before the 31st JANUARY, 1931.
Particulars as to the duties of the posi-
tion may be obtained upon application by
letter addressed to “the Accountant” of the
association at the address given above.
Bridge Space with
Exide Batteries
BRING into your own
home, with clear, full,
natural tone the best that
the broadcasting stations can
give you.
On your battery rests much of
the responsibility for the
quality of your radio reception,
Exide Longer Life Radio Bat-
teries assure a steady, even flow
of current, at full voltage, for
exceptionally long periods.
They minimise the incon-
venience and expense of over-
frequent recharging, and
eliminate the risk of failure
and disappointment.
Obtainable from Exide Service
Stations throughout Australia.
Hxibt
The Longer Life*
RADIO BATTERY
State Distributors :
NEW SOUTH WALES : Exide Battery
Service (Gibson, Battle & Co. Ltd.),
Hunt and Commonwealth Streets, Sydney,
also Noyes Bros. (Sydney) Limited,
39 York Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA : A. P. Sutherland, Queen’s
Bridge, 2 Maffra Street, South Melbourne
QUEENSLAND : Exide Battery Service
(O.) Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane ;
Stanley St., Sth. Brisbane ; Sturt St., T’ville.
S AUSTRALIA : Unbehaun & Johnstone
‘Ltd., 97 Currie Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA : M. J. Bateman
Ltd., Magneto House, Milligan St., Perth.
TASMANIA : Medhurst & Sons Pty. Ltd.,
141 Collins Street, Hobart, and 59 Brisbane
Street, Launceston. C 4
gfd
If any illustration in “The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Xmas Gifts
for
Men
Practical and Appreciated .
CLUB REIL
Cig'ars
RICH, MILD FLAVOR
HAVANA LEAF
In Cedarwood Gift Cabinets, containing—
-15 Cigars 9/3
20 13/6
Also in Hinged-top Cedarwood Boxes of—
-10 25 50 100
6/- 12/9 24/- 46/3
ALL POST FREE,
PLUM RAZORS
■liiinri/ini fiiiiii linn iiimllVf uC*
J msr
The Plum Razor
Guard fits any blade
razor f, f, | inch
size.
This guard permits
the correct diagonal
shaving stroke, en-
suring a thorough
and comfortable
shave.
2/9 Post Free.
Post-paid Prices.
Black Vulcanite Handle, each 12/6
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle,
each 15/6
Real Ivory Handle, each .... 21/-
Strongly made grained leather
hinged case provided free with
every Razor.
Seven Day “PLUM” Razor Sets: —
Black Handles £4/5/-
Xylo Handles £5
Ivory Handles . . £7
Per set of 7 Razors in Satin-lined
Oak Case.
“PLUM” RAZORS are supplied in two widths—|in. and |in.
Each Razor set ready for use, and guaranteed and kept in order for two
years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
TQ
♦
=
♦**
«**
,o<»
A pictorial
guide to
America
FASCINATINC this new booklet
illustrated with latest pictures of
San Francisco, New York, Yosemite,
Grand Canyon, Niagara Falls and
other famous places of the United
States. It tells how easy it is to
travel across America when you go
back home. Free to those planning
trips to England. Call or write for
your copy.
Write to Dept. M3l,
AMERICAN RAILWAYS
TRAVEL and INFORMATION
BUREAU
12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
m
aoo
K/
/
u
ss
mwtxr r r
GALLONS fOR THAT TRIP
That’s what I call real economy. I see now why you
traded your big car for an Austin.
Yes . . . It’s costing me less to buy AND run
the Austin, than that great, heavy old bus of mine used
to for petrol and oil alone.
TRUE ECONOMY
IS TO
SPEND WISELY
A LL Austin models are
completely equipped.
Their prices range from
£199
(Subject to Sales Tax)
Call pr write for full
particulars.
THE 100 PER CENT. BRITISH
AUSTIN DISTRIBUTORS Pty. Ltd., 460 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE, Cl
TFJ Showrooms open till 9 p.m. Fridays.
" •• J.W.S.D. ' " 11111


Patents.
AN IMPROVED CENTRIFUGAL
STARTER FOR ELECTRIC MOTORS.
'‘THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 21118/24 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Asbestos House, York and
Barrack Streets, Sydney. (Box 2133 L,
G.P.0., Sydney.)
IMPROVEMENTS IN STORAGE
BATTERY SEPARATORS.
HTIIE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 13813/19 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of his rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Asbestos House, York and
Barrack Streets, Sydney. (Box 2133 L,
G.P.0., Sydney.)
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN CONSTANT SPEED
DOOR ENGINE.
’T’HE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
A No. 17816/29 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Asbestos House, York and
Barrack Streets, Sydney. (Box 2133 L,
G.P.0., Sydney.)
IMPROVEMENTS IN PRESSED METAL
VEHICLE BODY.
r T’HE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
A No. 11057/27 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Asbestos House, York and
Barrack Streets, Sydney. (Box 2133 L,
G.P.0., Sydney.)
Patents.
MACHINES AND METHODS FOR
MAKING MOULDS AND CORES.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
A No. 15728/23 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of his rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Asbestos House, York and
Barrack Streets', Sydney. (Box 2133 L,
G.P.0., Sydney.)
Mining.
AUSTRALIAN MINING TRUST, LTD., offers the
opportunity of joining in an unusual mining
venture which, if successful, will add millions each
year to Australia’s wealth. The profits to be won
are so exceptionally great that a small investment—
say £s—may return a substantial fortune. The
facts of the undertaking will interest you. Send
for them to-day. AUSTRALIAN MINING TRUST,
LTD., 62 Margaret Street, Sydney.—Advt. \
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: SONS O’ GUNS.
CRITERION:
ELIZA COMES TO STAY
(Commencing Saturday).
T C WILLIAMSON, LTD..
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL: THE CINGALEE.
LAST NIGHTS.
OICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
TWICE DAILY, at 2.30 and 8 p.m.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents
THE NEW REVUE
BY THE SEA,
With a Brilliant Cast of Popular Favorites.
Popular Pre-war Prices.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
One of the most improved horses at Rand-
wick is Spearman. Early last season this
Page decided that he and another young
Spearhead gelding, Spearshot, were a pair
that it would pay to follow—if it ever does
pay to follow horses, in the particular or the
general. As it happened, Spearman and
Spearshot went off about the same time,
looking poor and running accordingly; and
persistent backing of both for the rest of the
season would have been ruinous. Turned five,
however, both have come good, and Spearman
is now a strong fancy for the Villiers, in
which he has Bst. 31b., while Spearshot is
favorite for the Summer Cup, his weight
being 7st. 131 b.
Spearman has filled out a lot, and in looks
was the pick of the field for the Warwick
Farm Handicap at the course of that name
on Wednesday. The bookmakers at first
offered 6 to 4 only, but the price drifted to
5 to 2 with the singularly ill-judged backing
of the roguish Lord Kennaquhair. Johnstone
rode Spearman in very confident fashion. He
let his mount gallop comfortably behind
Hustler and Leisure Hour for a mile or so,
and once he called upon Spearman the race
was over. Dreamdale and the topweight,
Lord Eudorus, passed the tiring pacemakers
in the run home; then came Western Lass
and Murillo, but over the last furlong it
was a procession.
That the form was good was shown by
results on the second day of the meeting.
Western Lass, backed from eights to 7 to 2,
won the December Handicap from Leisure
Hour and Hustler, galloping the mile and a
half in 2min. 32sec.; and Lord Eudorus
(6 to 1) downed a pretty good field over a
mile (run in lmin. 40sec.) in the Moore-
bank Handicap. Second to Lord Eudorus
was Vercoola, a four-year-old bay mare by
The Verdercr —Coolante, who promises to
turn out useful; third was Magnetic, who
went out at 5 to 4 on the strength of having
cantered in with the Leumeah Handicap,
same distance, on the Wednesday; and Val-
paraiso was fourth. Valparaiso is looking
nice and bright again; he is in demand for
the Summer Cup, in which he has Bst. 61b.,
but the last furlong of the “mile and five”
may bother him. Old Murillo finished best
of the beaten horses in the December Handi-
cap, and Stanton may pick up another race
or two with him.
The handsome but uncertain Remora was
on her best, behavior in the second division
of the Camden Handicap—the first had been
captured very easily by Lady O’Clare (5 to 1),
but she is nothing out of the way. Favorite
at 9 to 4, in spite of her 9st. 111 b., Remora
cleared out from the others and was timed to
get over the six furlongs in lmin. 12^sec. —
only half a second slower than the course
record. Adrian’s March was noticed finishing
at a great bat. when it. was too late to over-
haul Remora; he must have passed seven or
eight horses in the short straight. He should
soon compensate W. T. Kerr for the reverse.
The track was no doubt faster than
usua-l, but no credit should therefore be
taken away from the two-year-olds who
established slick times. Mesha, a brown
colt by Moabite —Valdivia, equalled Hold-
fast’s Warwick Farm record of lmin. Ofsec.
for five furlongs in the first division of the
Maiden Nursery Handicap, for which he was
backed from a long price to sixes; and Mar-
tand (8 to 1) cut the three-quarters of a
second off in the Kirkham Stakes, in which
he settled Old Ming and the favorite,
Ranier, with a fine run, after Gloriole hau
blown herself out making the pace. Mar-
tand is a bay colt by High Force—Eastern
Belle. Old Ming (he is trained by Telford,
of Phar Lap celebrity) is a chestnut by
Caravel —Jean Roxburgh, and Ranier is a
sister to Rampion, Ramulus and Rosendo.
All three are good, and Gloriole showed great
pace for five furlongs, while good judges
admired the conformation of The Czar (Man-
fred—-Chatelaine), who, _ unbacked, ran
fourth in the second division of the Maiden
Nursery, won by Princess Cistercian
(12 to 1).
Knox, until recently a pony jockey,_ rode
the first three winners—Mesha, Princess
Cistercian and Solicitude (20 to 1) , and was
given a fine reception. Solicitude, who sur-
prised the stable by his brilliant finishing
run, is by Woorak—Wakeful’s Daughter,
grandam of Mesha. Though far from being
the best of them, he is one of a score or
more of three-year-olds who are going to
make a big difference to Sydney handicap
form, which has been very poor the last two
or three seasons. Among them are Tregilla,
Balloon Kang, Brazenface, Rosendo, Cronulla,
Sir Duninald, Salvador and Sunlit Reef.
* * if if
For Rosehill on Saturday:—
Corinthian Cup: Celtic; next, Dark Lan-
tern.
Dundas Handicap: Aorangi; next, Kil-
larney.
December Handicap : Lord Eudorus; next,
Bawn-na-Glas.
Carlingford Mile: Adrian’s March ; next,
Gleaner.
* if
Postponements of Saturday race meetings
are rare in Melbourne, but rain fell so
heavily last week-end that the meeting at
Moonee Valley in aid of the V.R.C. Bene-
volent Fund could not take place. It is
to eventuate next Saturday; the Moonee
Valley club has generously surrendered its
date and agreed to wait until later in the
season.
Hurdle Race: Horoscope; next, Burra-
main.
Highweight Handicap: Darpuna; next,
Port Nelson.
Martand, who on his second in the Breed-
ers’ Plate and his first in the Kirkham
Stakes, must be accounted the best colt of
the year among the two-year-olds—in Syd-
ney, at least. —was bred in Queensland and
NO BOOM FOR COMPLAINTS.
FACETIOUS GOLFER (to stroller on links who has complained on being struck by ball ):
“That makes us all square, old chappie. You crossed my tee, and . I dotted
your eye
sold to Y. M. White as a yearling for 300
guineas. His imported sire, High Force, has
already distinguished himself by giving Wise
Force, conqueror of Amounis at w.f.a., to the
turf, and Ocean Force (High Force —
Midilli) made a good impression at Ascot
on Nov. 30 by winning the Champagne
Stakes, five furlongs, in lmin. lfsec. He
was beaten in the Q.T.C.’s Nursery Handi-
cap at Eagle Farm on Saturday, but it
was by another offspring of High Force —
Strong Wind out of Serazore. Considering
the deeds of Mollison, High Syce, Highland
and Wise Force, Queensland-bred yearlings
are strangely neglected by southern buyers,
but the success of the High Force youngsters
may make a difference.
* * * *
James Scobie_ has not been much in the
picture as a trainer since The Doctor’s
Orders annexed the A.J.C. Sires’ Produce
Stakes last Easter. In Temptation, how-
ever, he has a very useful horse. This son
of Royal Alwyne credited him with the
Adelaide Cup in May and recently led home
the Bendigo Cup field. Now Scobie pro-
poses to give him a chance of further dis-
tinction in the Port Adelaide Cup. At the
same period Bold Bid, whom Scobie trains
for C. B. Kellow, will be in Sydney as a
candidate for the December Stakes at Rand-
wick. Bold Bid is by Heroic. He ran
second to La Justice in the V.R.C. Mari-
byrnong Plate, and is a colt of high promise.
* * *
The Ballarat Cup, contested last week
on the famous Dowling Forest (Vic.) race-
course, resulted in an unexpected victory for
Kenney, the top weight, an aged gelding by
the 1920 Sydney Cup winner Ivennaquhair.
Originally Kenney belonged to G. J. Officer,
a pillar of racing in the Western district of
Victoria. Since being acquired by Jock
Holmes, he lias improved; in fact, W.
O’Dwyer has worked wonders with him.
“Tich” Wilson, who piloted Temptation to
victory in the Bendigo Cup, had the mount
on Kenney, and got him home by half a
neck from the favorite, Rosbercon, owned by
Mannie Lyons, the bookmaker. Lyons went
for a plunge on Rosbercon. His starting
price was 7 to 4, w r hereas 12 to 1 could be
obtained about Kenney.
* * * *
“Dor Jong”: N.S.W. bookmakers are far
from content with the proposed tax on win-
ning wagers, though at the first glance the
system might seem a good one for the layer
of odds. One suggestion, and a sound one,
is the institution of a percentage tax on the
bookmaker’s turnover, either for the day or
other definite period. Some of the South
African Provinces favor this system, notably
the Transvaal and Natal, though the pro-
cedure varies in each. In Natal the per-
centage is levied on the balance as revealed
in Ike’s books, which means that if he has
a bad day he is not liable. The bookie must
furnish returns to the taxation authorities,
and does not seem to find it a hardship,
though some of the Afrikander fielders do a
very big business.
* * # *
“Old Q-” : The new Queensland legislation
amending the betting tax has given rise to
some lively controversy already. The amend-
ing Act says that the bookmaker “may” re-
cover the tax from the punter on a winning
bet, but there is nothing mandatory about
the clause. As a result, some of the shrewd-
ies are taking full advantage of the weakness,
and the air is rent with the protestations of
Ike Mcßagg in his agony.
* * * *
B. Deeley, who died in Christchurch
the other day, was for years one of
Maoriland’s leading jockeys. Australians
will remember him especially in connection
with Gloaming, on whom he won on several
occasions on this side the Tasman, one of
his outstanding victories on the M.L. gelding
being the A.J.C. Derby of 1918. Another
good mount here was Biplane, whom Deeley
steered into first place in the A.J.C. and
Victorian Derbies of 1917. In his own
country, his outstanding successes included
two N.Z. Cups, one on Vice-Admiral in 1911
and the other on Vagabond in 1919. Two
Auckland Cups on Putty and Karo also
stand to his credit.
'U Ij* V V
The Victorian racing clubs are following
the example of the A.J.C. and pruning the
added money, the V.R.C. for one knocking
£llOO off the six events for the New Year’s
Day meeting. Still, that will leave £2500
for division on the day, so there will be
something with which to pay the produce
merchant.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Because Bobby Blay had so decisively
defeated all previous opponents at the Leich-
hardt Stadium, he was solidly backed to
beat Archie Hughes. Hughes (8.13), who
is feather champion of N. S. Wales, surprised
by taking the initiative early, and
continuous left rips to the body bothered
Blay (9.2) until a weighty right to the
chin in the sixth round turned the tide of
battle in Blay’s favor. Hughes, after taking
enough punishment to sink a ship, lost on
points.
Another Sydney Stadium match fell through
when Walter Libert’s gashed eyebrow caused
his withdrawal from his joust with Jack
Haines. The substituted popular-priced pro-
gramme, although poorly patronised, provided
more thrills than the original entertainment
promised. Roy Burns, Newcastle’s new south
paw, met Allan Edgecock (each weighed 9st.
91b.) in the 15-rounds’ main event, but a
lusty left swing broke Edgecock’s nose in
the second, and the scrap only went to
the sixth, when Burns won on a technical
knock-out.
❖ ❖ * i[t
There were some comic-opera aspects
attaching to the meeting of those two hunks
of brawn Italian Camera and Spanish Uzcu-
dun at Barcelona. The elephantine spectacle
drew 91,000 people, and when the 10-round
bout was awarded on points to the Italian
military with drawn swords had to keep the
local man’s supporters from rushing the ring
with murderous intent. Camera weighed
19.4 and the other chap 14.11, so there was
no lack of beef. Takings were £40,000, of
which the fighters divided half.
The Ins and Outs
Unable to master Grimmett (4-71) and
Carlton (3-42), the West Indians were dis-
missed for 171 at Adelaide. South Australia
replied with 330, to which Grimmett con-
tributed 56. In their second shot the visi-
tors made 162. Grimmett (5-43) and Waite
(3-46) doing the damage this time, so they
were beaten by 10 wickets. It was certainly
Grimmett’s match.
❖ * * $
“Billy th’ Goose”: I’m writin’ fr’m me old
’ome, Stewart’s Creek, outside Townsville —
I got six munce more ter do. First up I
wants ter protest agin er statement in ther
Fed’ral ’Ouse what I copped fr’m er bit uv
ther Sydnee “ ’Erald” w’at one of ther screws
give me. I am ther original Billy th’ Goose
w’at travelled round ther Queensland shows
with me bird pickin’ ther little marbles outer
tlier barrel, an’ I don’t care w’at others says,
even if they is in Parl’ment. Ther next thing
I wants yer ter do is to back me appli-
cation for orginising sec. uv that Board uv
Control yer says is goin’ ter be formed ter
look after sheila cricket. I know er lot
erbout ther bints, an’ me experience is that
they take er lot uv controllin’. Considerin’
I’ve bin shopped three times fer doin’ up ther
missus, I reckon me recommendations is in
ther bonza class.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: In these days of cricketers
who quibble about the light and the condi-
tion of pitches, it is refreshing to find that
there still exist true sportsmen who rise
superior to the bludgeons of circumstance.
Ipswich (Q.) Cricket Association lately
received a mild protest from one of its
affiliated clubs concerning another which could
only supply a kerosene-tin at one end and a
block of wood at the other by way of wickets.
Further, complainant stated, all the bowling
had to be done from one end. The mystified
authorities made inquiry and found that the
wicket shortage was due to an individual
who had appropriated the club gear and sacri-
ficed it to quench a Queensland thirst. The
bowling was done from one end because the
other had a pool of water six inches deep on
it. Both explanations were accepted as com-
pletely satisfactory.
* * * . *
“ ’Badian”: The mercurial Constantine
can boast a record which must be almost
unique. His father before him represented
the West Indies against England in the first
side from the islands to visit England 30
years ago. Neither Australia nor South Africa
can muster a similar case to Constantine’s,
though both have fielded “sets” of brothers.
(Continued on next page.)


Crept; sold the car ?"
Sept */Vea, \r took up too much
Room \n the garaqe ,■*
tf \ / . <*
QERT 1 DONT UNDERSTAND.
tr /
Bert*. We havent room for eighteen
PUTTING GREENS AND A CAR AS'MGU.''
Th«s Ins and Outs
N.S.W. took a fearful hiding from Queens-
land in the Sheffield match at Brisbane.
When Ma had hoisted 566 her supporters
reckoned she was home and dried. They over-
looked the horrible standard of the N.S.W.
bowling, with the result that the home side
topped the visitors’ score by 121 runs, a feat
without parallel in first-class cricket in Aus-
tralia. In their second essay, N.S.W. dropped
5 wickets for 159, thus losing an inglorious
match on the first innings, since the whole
four days allotted for these games had
expired. The men who won the day for the
Maroons were Gough (137) and F. C.
Thompson, who played a remarkable fighting
innings for 275 n.o. He got a lot of help
from Ron Oxenham (67) and Bensted (52).
Bowler ITurwood, who is a better batsman
than most suppose, smacked up 57, while
Hornibrook, also unconsidered as a run-
getter, supplied 27 at a critical time. The
only N.S.W. bowler to shape like a tradesman
was the lefthander Hunt, who finished with
the good average, in that huge score, of 4
for 128. Ron Oxenham rvas the destructive
agent in the second N.S.W. knock, taking
4 for 19.
* # * *
“Gabba”: F. C. Thompson, whose score of
275 n.o. against N.S.W. in Brisbane is a
Queensland record for inter-State matches,
has been one of the State’s most consistent
players since he came into inter-State cricket
in 1923. ll‘e has always shown a liking for
the N.S.W. trundlers, and has scored six
three-figure innings against them, three in
Sydney and three at home. In addition lie
has twice hoisted the century against Vic-
toria and once against England, the last for
an Australian Eleven when Gilligan’s side
of 1924 was playing in Queensland. Not a
stylist, he is a very hard driver and once set
very difficult to shift. Sometimes he has been
too prone to fall back on the defensive atti-
tude, but this last big knock should encour-
age him to rely on his natural game. An
M.A. of Queensland University he is a tutor
at the Brisbane Commercial College.
He He H*
After their excellent showing against the
strong N.S.W. side in Sydney, the West
Indians disappointed expectations in Mel-
bourne, being easily beaten by an innings and
254 runs. Most of them proved quite unable
to cope with the left-hand bowling of the
veteran Ironmonger, who had one of his good
matches, ending up with 13 wickets for 118.
Set 383 to pass the Victorian total, the side
collapsed in the second innings for 128. Head-
ley, the hero of the first knock, added a good
34, but with the exception of skipper Grant,
who batted doggedly for 20, found no one. to
help him, Ironmonger’s bag on this occasion
being 8 for 31.
Hs * * #
“ ’Badian” : E. St. Hill, of the West Indies
team, is the latest of the dusky lads from
the Spanish Main to join up with the pro-
fessional ranks. Constantine and Francis
of the same team are both pros., playing
with the Lancashire League, and St. Hill,
a right-hand fast-medium bowler of quality,
will also be transmogrified into a Lancashire
lad, for he will play with Lowerhouse.
League cricket in Lancashire is an affair
of one-day matches played on a Saturday,
and quick scoring and destructive bowling
are essentials. Arthur Richardson, the late
Frank O’Keefe and E. A. McDonald arc
Australians who have figured in the purely
professional game, while, in addition to the
West Indian element, several South Africans
turn out with the various clubs. It is a pay-
ing proposition, for, in addition to club
salaries and talent money, the man who has
done something with the bat or ball is always
sure of a “shower” from the mill operatives
and coalminers, who form the greater propor-
tion of the crowd.
H: * - $ *
J. T. Tyldesley, dead in England at 57,
was one of the finest professional batsmen
cricket has known. When he first appeared
for Lancashire, professional batting had been
conventionalised on a safety-first basis.
“Johnny” showed a return to the dashing
methods of earlier players like Maurice Read,
and soon justified his policy. Sound in
defence, he was a punishing and attractive
hittter with shots all round the wicket, while
he was also a magnificent outfield. Australia
saw him twice, in 1901 and 1903. In Tests
he scored 1661 runs, including four centuries,
and up to his retirement in 1919 had made
38,000 runs in first-class cricket. Burly
Ernest Tyldesley, here with Chapman’s side,
was a brother.
He * * H=
“Lansdowne”: N.S.W. Governor Game,
while admitting the other day that he him-
self had achieved no distinction at cricket,
mentioned an uncle, still alive, who was in
the front rank as a university and county
player a little over half a century ago. This
is W. H. Game, a Sherborne boy, who played
four years in the Oxford XI, captaining it in
1876, and appeared for Surrey for several
years after that, though his first-class cricket
career wasn’t protracted. Game was
known as a big hitter, but his most memor-
able achievement, and one that preserves
his name in the records to this day, was
not made with the bat, or even in a match.
At the Oval in 1875 he threw a cricket bail
-111 yards in one direction and another 111
yards back. There have been longer single
throws, but nobody else has managed such
a double.
H: * * *
“Lancaster Park” : The annual report of
the Maoriland Cricket Association contains
a graceful reference to. Australian sympathy,
especially in regard to the remitting of £3Bl
grabbed as income tax on the takings of
the Australian section of the tour. llow
the department was induced to shatter all
precedent and disgorge its prey is one of
the romances of taxation to which space can-
not be given. Great hopes are based on the
tour of England by the All Blacks next
season. The last trip ended in a financial
loss, and that was also the case, unfortu-
nately, with the recent tour of the Maryle-
bone C. C. in the Shivery Isles. That tour
showed that Maoriland cricket has improved
out of sight since the war. The visit to
England should further help in this direc-
tion. There is no reason on earth why M.L.
should not rise to the first rank in cricket.
Racquet and Bawl
“Fitzcray” : The Australian tennis autho-
rities in Melbourne, after grave consideration
of the application of J. O. Anderson to be
allowed a shorter period of probation as a
preliminary to his reinstatement as an
amateur, turned the request down, although
it was strongly endorsed by the N.S.W.
Association. Anderson will have to put in a
full two years sitting on the fence between
professionalism and the other kind, the heads
desiring it to be known that it is
“important to let amateurs realise that the
way would not be easy if, after playing as
professionals, they desire reinstatement.”
The fact that the N.S.W. body sponsored
Anderson probably had much to do with the
setback.
H= * * *
“Top Spin”: Though Australia is not
challenging for the next Davis Cup, an
. attempt is to be made to discover and en-
courage new talent for future teams, it being
evident that the material of the last two
was not up to standard. It is proposed to
bring a number of Australia’s young and
promising players together at the South Aus-
tralian championships in Adelaide next
March, at the Queensland championships in
Brisbane in August, at Melbourne in Novem-
ber-, and in Sydney in January, 1932. The
idea is a commendable one, but it is going
to cost a lot of brass.
He * H= H=
“Cut Shot”: The N.S.W. tennis heads
came close to having to cancel their annual
match with Victoria in Melbourne, the cash-
box closely resembling Nature’s alleged
abhorrence. All they could offer their players
was train fares both ways, and. some of the.
eminent amateurs remarked that there was
nothing doing. However, a last-moment con-
ference with the Victorians fixed things.
Usually in these matches the home side takes
all the gate. This time, N.S.W. will pouch
20 per cent, of the Kooyong takings, Victoria
being reimbursed in the same fashion when
the Dark Blues come to Sydney in January.
Hs * H« Hs
“Kooyong”: Pat O’Hara Wood made his
final appearance as an amateur when he
played last week for Victoria against N.S.W.
As a professional he will concentrate on
coaching and should do well, since he has
built up a great reputation in this respect as
an amateur. He first came into prominence
in 1919, when he won the world’s doubles
titles at Wimbledon with R. V. Thomas, the
pair outing Brookes and Patterson in the
semi-finals. He played in England and
America with the 1922 Davis Cup team, and
that year won the mixed doubles at Wimble-
don with Suzanne Lenglen as team mate.
Many other successes include the singles and
doubles championships of Australia in 1923.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Carnoustie”: While his pal Walter
Hagen is said to be slipping from his high
eminence in the golfing world, Kirkwood
has had one of the best seasons of his career.
He made a splendid showing in the Ameri-
can professional championship, winning
through to the semi-finals; among his victims
was Horton Smith. He was knocked out by
Gene Sarazen,. but our Joseph had forced
the ex-champion to 27 holes before Gene
emerged the winner by 1 up. Kirkwood is
34 (it is only 10 years since he won the
Australian open title), and if he cuts out
his circus stuff for .serious golf may yet
figure at the very top.
H! * * H=
“Miami”: Australian golfers are in for
some thrilling moments if the proposed trip
to Australia of “Wild Bill” Mehlhorn and
Bob Cruickshank early next year comes off.
Wild William is said to be the mightiest
driver in the golfing firmament. It is notable
in this connection that he has never won
a really first-class event, the fact endorsing
the golfing axiom that long driving never
wins matches. Nevertheless, he holds a
world’s record —271 for 72 holes. W.W. is
very temperamental. For long he was a joy
to the club-fashioners, for when he made a
bad shot he usually snapped the shaft of the
club over his knee. Now that the steel-
shafters are gaining vogue, that won’t be so
easy. Perhaps William, who is a great pub-
licity man, will continue to oblige the public
and carry round with him a file or a hacksaw
with which to express his emotions after a
foozle.
“Hamilton”: Queensland’s annual golf
tournament for caddies is always a popular
event, and this year’s, attended in spite
of the hard times by club-carriers from all
over the place, produced some excellent golf.
The qualifying round of 18 holes stroke play
over the Royal Queensland course at Eagle
Farm was won by E. Anderson, of Sandgate,
with a card of 87. T. Wright, of Royal
Queensland, who was second, with 88, played
off the final with the winner, the 18 holes
of match play being decided at the Brisbane
Club, Yeerongpilly. Wright won, 4 and 3,
making the third lad from the R.Q. to take
the tourney in the four years of its existence,
a fact which says something for the coaching.
ifc Hi * *
“Cash Amateur” : There can be no question
that the taking of cash prizes for playing
miniature “golf,” or even competing in com-
petitions for the same, constitutes an act ot
professionalism (B. 26/11/’3O). Many like
myself have been of the opinion that, since the
obsession does not resemble the original game
except in the remotest degree, the point
was hardly worth bothering about. An impor-
tant ruling delivered last week by an Aus-
tralian golfing potentate has, however, set-
tled all doubts. His opinion is that the craze
which sheiks and flappers are following must
be regarded as golf, since “certain imple-
ments” used in the one are essential to the
other. The opinion is entitled to respect,
even if the logic is rather hazy. On that
definition a. wood-chopping champion might
be declared a public headsman, since both
have been accustomed to use the same “imple-
ment” —the axe.
* 4= * *
“Prestwick”: . The British “open” will
be played next year on the Carnoustie links.
These are situated in Fifeshire, a Scottish
county, whose inhabitants are said to be able
to get more out of a whisky-bottle and a
threepenny bit than the Aberdonian; The
course is now one of the finest in England,
and is a notably difficult one. It is the first
time, to the writer’s knowledge that the big
event has been staged on the Fifeshire links.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz” : A recent argument in England
over comparative speeds led to an interest-
ing experiment. A motor-cycle, a sports car,
a whippet and a thoroughbred horse were
matched from a standing start over a run of
300 yards on a grass track. The car was
favorite, but the winner was the motor-
cyclist, who did the distance in 14 seconds.
The tyke was second with 17sec., the horse
third with 20sec. and the car last with 21sec.
* * * *
“Differential”: Yet another new batch of
motor-car records was hoisted the other day
at the Montlhery track, the English driver
Dunfee putting up five new lots of inter-
national figures in the D class (2001 to
3000c.c. capacity). Fifty miles were cut
out at the rate of 117.20 m.p.h., 200 kilo-
metres at 116.05, 200 miles at 116.14, and
500 kilometres at 111.14, while three hours’
continuous driving of the Sunbeam car
averaged 110.83 m.p.h.
H= * * Hi
“Trotter”: A noteworthy motor-tour was
completed last week when the two Cambridge
undergrads. Shippam and Dixon, who passed
through Sydney some months ago, returned
to Cambridge after an 18,000-mile journey
round the world, on which 20 countries
were traversed. It says a good deal for
modern workmanship that the front Dunlop
tyres were not changed throughout the trip,
and the back ones only once. The tour was
without outstanding incident, though the pair
found the most difficult section of the journey
was across “the Australian Desert,” wher-
ever that may be.
“Delicious Trimmings”: New legislation
governing motor traffic in Britain compels
the driver of car or motor-cycle to furnish
a certificate of physical fitness. No one can
get a driving certificate if he suffers from
epilepsy, disabling giddiness, fainting and in-
ability to read a number-plate at 25 yards.
No provision seems to have been made for
the all-too-common driver who is either
drunk or well under the “influence.” Some
attempt .should be made to deal with him, in
Britain as elsewhere, for he is responsible for
by far the greatest percentage of accidents.
Hs H* ❖ H?
“Kick Starter” : The return of several of
the crack Australian dirt-track riders from
Britain, where they have been sweeping the
board, calls fresh attention to the tremendous
vogue of the sport overseas. Much of the
interest on the other side arises, not so much
from the competition of individual riders
such as we are familiar with here, but from
the inter-track teams matches. Several
leagues have been formed in different parts
of England, and to these the local tracks are
affiliated. Each track has its representative
team, and the same applies to each league,
with the result that matches attract tre-
mendous local interest and draw big gates.
It is more than likely that the system will
be taken up in Australia and already motor-
cycling interests in Sydney and other Aus-
tralian centres are considering the pros and
cons.
Miscellaneous
“Kelly”: One of those rare sports which
have also a practical aspect is woodchop-
ping, nowadays one of the most popular
items in the programmes of agricultural
shows. Tasmania is particularly addicted to
the game, and the annual chop for the Hope-
toun Cup, which entails getting through
a 15-inch standing log ahead of the
other fellow, is rated as a world’s champion-
ship event. It draws axemen from all over
the Commonwealth and M.L., and it almost
seems worth while inviting some of the
inuch-talked-of Canadian and American
lumbermen to try their hands at lifting
the pot. This year’s event at Ulverstone was
won by Tasmanian R. Radford; it was his
third victory. L. Appo, the famous N.S.W.
axeman, was second, while the winner’s time
was Imin. 7 l-ssec.
Hs :]: H= *
“Half Blue” : Some weeks ago a Bulletin
correspondent called attention to the fact
that the~~Australian hockey girls in England
were being inundated with boxes of choco-
lates, and kindred aids to dissipation and
wild living, by confectionery firms. This
was deplored, as tending to affect the play
of the tourists, and it would seem that the
supposition has been justified. The tour of
Britain has been a disastrous one, for, after
making a decent showing in South Africa,
our girls have finished down the course iu
most of their matches. The excuse made is
that the British girls learn their hockey in
the schools, starting as children, whereas
the average Australienne takes.to the game
much later in life. It may be so, but one
can’t forget about those “chocs.”
t- ❖ ❖
“Gate”: Australia’s old friends the
Czecho-Slovak Soccer footballers showed them-
selves decidedly temperamental at times, but
never went as far as one of the race who
recently incurred the displeasure of the
referee in a match against an Italian team
at Trieste. This individual, following on
some rough stuff, drew a knife from his
stocking and inserted it in his adversary.
Of course he was promptly sent off by the
ref,, and as his opponent subsequently died
it is probable that he will be turned off
by an official of another kidney. Curious
how the Latin and the Slav turn to lethal
weapons in times of stress. The proper pro-
cedure, as any Rugby League player could
certify, is to stoush an offender from behind,
kick him in the ribs when he is down, or
perhaps bite him occasionally in the serums.
But the knife —well, it simply isn’t done in
Anglo-Saxon circles.
* * ❖ *
“Amateur Pro.”: The amateur-status im-
becility got some more publicity the other
day, when certain prominent N.S.W. athletes
figured in photographs advertising certain
goods. This, it appears, is against the ten
thousand commandments of amateurism, and
the offenders, Bob Pearce, Nick Winter and
J. Watson, the Australian discus champion,
have been cited to appear before the N.S.W.
authorities and defend themselves. The
rule on the subject is definite enough, lay-
ing down that to permit name or photograph
to be used for advertising purposes auto-
matically makes the offender a professional.
It is none the less an idiotic one. If a
man takes money for performing in sport
he is justly to be regarded as a pro. _ What
he does outside sport is entirely his own
affair. It would be just as logical to declare
a sprinter a professional because, when off
the tracks, he drew a salary as a bank clerk.
* * * *
“Marconi”: Preparations are in hand for
the Sayonara Cup, which is to be sailed for
outside Port Jackson in January, the open-
ing race taking place on the twentieth of
that month. The Victorian challenger will
again be Acrospire, beaten so easily last year
by the Sydney yacht Vanessa. Acrospire,
which has remained in Sydney ever since,
was then rigged in ordinary cutter style with
a gaff topsail. This time she will sail in
Bermuda rig, and the Victorians are confi-
dent she will prove a different proposition.
Her adversary will be selected, as usual, by
elimination tests, and as there are several
new aspirants afloat in Sydney this season
these should prove mighty interesting.
* * * *
“Fin”: The Australian 18-footer cham-
pionship, which will be sailed for in Port
Jackson during the last week in January,
came perilously close to being a fiasco be-
cause of the queer attitude of the N.S.w.
body in control of the function. Too tired to
hold eliminating contests, as other States
are doing, and enter the three best boats, as
is the usual practice, the home authorities
decided to start their whole fleet, numbering
some 30 boats, in spite of vigorous protests.
The Queenslanders, however, backed down
sooner than spoil 1 the carnival in which the
northerners always play a conspicuous part.


Legal Notices.
WILLIAM JOSEPH RAINBOW.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery Division
of the High Court of Justice England dated 12th
May 1930 made in an action in the Matter of Alice
Julia Smith deceased (late of 88 Ellington Road
Ramsgate in the County of Kent England who died
on 14th December 1927) Coman v. Adlington 1930 S.
No. 812 whereby the following enquiry was directed
viz:—
I.—An enquiry whether William Joseph Rainbow
(a brother of the abovenamed Intestate Alice Julia
Smith) was living or dead on 14th December 1927
the date of the death of the abovenamed Intestate
Alice Julia Smith and if he has since died who is
his personal representative and in case he predeceased
the Intestate whether he left any child or children
living on 14th December 1927 and any issue living
on that day of any such child or children then dead
and whether any and which of such children or issue
are now living and in case any such child or children
or issue have died since 14th December 1927 after
attaining the age of 21 years or marrying under that
age who are their respective personal representatives.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all persons
claiming to be entitled under the said enquiry are
oh or before the 24th day of March 1931 to send by
post prepaid to Mr. Gilfrid Gordon Craig of 10 New
Square Lincoln’s Inn in the County of London Eng-
land Solicitor their full Christian and Surnames
addresses and descriptions and full particulars of
their claims or in default thereof they will be ex-
cluded from the benefit of the said Order unless the
Court or Judge on application otherwise orders.
Claimants are to attend personally or by their
Solicitor before Master Mosse at the Chambers of
the Judge Room 163 Royal Courts of Justice Strand
London England on Tuesday the 31st day of March
1931 at 12 o’clock noon being the time appointed
for adjudicating upon the claims.
A Claimant not residing in England or Wales
must send with particulars of his or her claim the
name and address of a person in England or Wales
to whom notices to the Claimant can be sent.
Dated this 23rd day of October 1930.
R. L. MOSSE,
Master.
NOTE.—The said William Joseph Rainbow who
was born in 1865 was residing in or about 1900 at
Deptford London England. He was employed on
steamships making voyages to Australia and the
West Indies and other parts of the world and was
heard of at Sydney New South Wales many years
ago.
SPEECHLY, MUMFORD & CRAIG,
10 New Square, Lincoln’s Inn,
London, England.
Agents for EDWARD WOTTON, of Ramsgate, Eng-
land, Solicitor for the Plaintiff.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1352 of 1930.
IN RE HANNAH ELIZA TERBUTT (formerly
Hannah Eliza Stapleton) of Narrabri the wife
of Francis Henry Terbutt of Narrabri Grazier
Petitioner
AND the said FRANCIS HENRY TERBUTT,
Respondent.
To FRANCIS HENRY TERBUTT late of Eulah Creek
near Narrabri in the State of New South Wales
Grazier.
TAKE NOTICE that HANNAH ELIZA TERBUTT
has commenced a suit against you in this Honorable
Court and is applying for a dissolution of marriage
on the grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse. AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an appear-
ance to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Twenty-fifth day of
February a.d. 1931 and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be
heard and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the Petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned Solicitors free of
charge.
Dated this Twenty-seventh day of November a.d.
1930.
For the Registrar,
(Sgd.) C. K. BODY [l.s.],
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
Dalrymple & Blain,
Perpetual Trustee Chambers,
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Town Agents for William Edmund Potts,
Solicitor for Petitioner,
Narrabri.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1314 of 1930.
BETWEEN EVANGELINE MARY KEILY Petitioner
And GEORGE ARTHUR KEILY Respondent.
To GEORGE ARTHUR KEILY late of No. 65 Union
Street South Lismore N.S.W.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EVANGELINE MARY
KEILY has commenced a Suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a dissolution
of Marriage on the grounds of Desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or excuse.
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said Suit at the proper Office
of this Honorable Court on or before the thirty-first
day of March One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
one. AND in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the Suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the Petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned solicitors free of charge.
Dated this 3rd day of December, 1930.
A. M. NOWLAND,
Solicitor for the Petitioner,
111 Molesworth Street, Lismore.
By his Agents C. T. Poole & Son & Dickinson,
Solicitors, 16 Barrack Street, Sydney.
For the Registrar,
C. K. BODY [l.s.],
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 722 of 1930.
Between DOROTHEA LEONI McCRADIE Petitioner
And LESLIE KEITH McCRADIE Respondent.
To LESLIE KEITH McCRADIE late of Tenterfield
in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Dorothea Leoni
McCradie has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards. AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office of
this Honorable Court on or before the twenty-eighth
day of February one thousand nine hundred and
thirty-one and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further time
the petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had on appli-
cation to the undersigned solicitor free of charge.
Dated this 2nd day of December, 1930.
E. A. LEASK, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
17 Martin Place, Sydney.
For the Registrar,
[l.s.] C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE .. .. .. 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
9109/ is the time for
n
ervice
ItnAKIXIAXCft
JppoiS,
When things are booming,
it is almost impossible to lay
up your LEYLAND for a
general overhaul. The LEY-
LAND is such a diligent
worker that there is always
the temptation to make it a
“willing horse.”
Now, while times are slack,
is your opportunity to avail
yourself of the splendid
service on which LEYLAND
justly prides itself.
Prepare now for strenuous
times ahead! Business can-
not remain for ever at its
present low level.
SEND YOUR LEYLAND
IN TO-DAY FOR A
COMPLETE OVERHAUL
LEYLAND has the correct parts
and the expert knowledge of its own
product to give you a perfect job.
Above all LEYLAND service charges
are competitive and reasonable.
Jg^landMofgrs
ENGLAND
HEAD OFFICE:
24 GROSVENOR ST.,
SYDNEY.
SERVICE STATION
153-167 GEORGE ST.
REDFERN.
TELEPHONES: 87951-87952.
TELEGRAMS: LEYMOTORS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Depot:
C’n’r Villiers & Courtney
Streets, North Melbourne.
Brisbane Depot:
Grey Street, South
Brisbane.
West Aust. Depot:
Royal Street, East
Perth.


AERTEX
in
i-ONOOH
<.:«TSTS
s j.W’
J Tfm Label on all Garments .^vs
There is also a complete
range of AERTEX for
Women and Children.
r
I
»:ii
*%%%%»
IHt
i%’4%
1 • %*
(\%\|N%\«MMiN«i
Doctors advise Aertex
Aertex offers you complete comfort by night and day. Guarded by its wonderful
cellular weave, you are insulated from all extremes of temperature, and kept
fit and fresh in every kind of weather.
For sports men and business men alike, the Aertex range offers a splendid
range of supremely comfortable garments in a wide variety of sizes and styles.
Aertex »s stocked by all leading drapers throughout the Commonwealth and
is made in Australia by Australians. Refuse all imitations and look for the
Aertex trade-mark.
Obtainable from all Mercers , Drapers and Outfitters.
apply to
In case of difficulty
THE CELLULAR CLOTHING CO., LTD.,
Wenley House, 313-315 Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE, Cl
(Wholesale Only).
Telegraphic Address: “Cellular, Melbourne.”
Al 7.
Commonwealth Cash and
Conversion Loan
The National Mutual Life Association
of Australasia, Limited,
Is Prepared to Assist Its Members and Others to
Subscribe
The only payment required for the first year will be an amount not
exceeding 10 per cent, of the amount of the desired loan subscription.
Further particulars can be obtained upon application to the
Association.
OFFICE: 350 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Help the Loan. Help Australia Help Yourself.
If any illustration in “ THE
BULLETIN” takes your fancy,
Write to the MANAGER , who will
quote you price for the original.
This is a group of Stuart Crystal. It is the
product of Stuart’s of Stourbridge, England
— makers / in bygone days / of much of the old
cut glass that is most highly prized to-day.
It is not a whit less beautiful\ this modern
crystal from the original glass works, but,
unlike the antique glass, it is priced within
the means of other than wealthy collectors.
The name Stuart is etched on every piece.
m
m
Jm
„ ■ H '
H
\ ! , , ) Sf
! ■ - ■■
pp
s
■1
1 ■ ■
MIS
m
r. 2
HP
a^MiunWWl
i
#22^s
• * - 'll
I
H
■X.
Kfl 9
yj
I
«e#
®*p
***
m
KP '
‘TTWjliif
ViVy,
gg
>■?<>■
~ •
v m.
..jp.
LJ
r
English Hand* made Crystal
(Obtainable wherever beautiful glass


Use CASH'S RIBBONS
for Shoulder Straps
-and this just
CAN'T happen.
V
Cash's Ribbons arc most
durable, and never break
or fray, once threaded,
you don't remove them
from the Garment—as
fdg
[Washing RIBBONS]
look like new after repeat
ed washing. Made in
daintiest fadeless Pastel
Shades, with Brocaded or
Floral Effect in various
widths
Ask your Draper
for Cash’s.
J. & J. Cash Australian
Weaving Co. Pty. Ltd,
Richmond Melbourne.
REDUCED TARIFFS:
Single Room only from 10/- per day
Single Room only, with Private Bath ........ from 15/- per day
Room and Breakfast from 12/6 per person
Inclusive Tariff from 20/- per day
Inclusive Tariff, with Private Bath from 27/6 per day
Private Suites quoted on application.
Luncheon 3/6 or a la carte. Dinner 5/«
Meals served in rooms, 1/- extra.
THE WENTWORTH PALM COURT LINKS
Open from 11 a.m. till midnight—lB Holes for I/-
Golf and Morning Tea or Coffee 1/-
Golf and Afternoon Tea 2/6
DANCING EVERY EVENING AND SATURDAY AFTERNOONS.
Bhe WENTWORTH HOTEL
CHURCH HILL— -SYDNEY
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS: “MUM,” SYDNEY.
Under 5
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1920.
ToH.NL
Kin*
George V
CHAMPAGNE
m
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company umitaf
SYDNEY.
t ham packs
Giarlesllddsiec;v
Reims I W'i
“MERCURY” BRAND
TASMANIAN
Spark/ing
CIDER
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
With a million or so a day pouring into
the Commonwealth Loan, it doesn’t look as
though this State were exactly on the bread-
line. So one may still say “Ilurrav for
things,” like Melisande, the dream-drenched
heroine in “The Romantic Age.” There’s to
be a Christmas pantomime, too, at the Grand
Opera House, full of magic and jokes and
pretty ballet legs. In all the big shops, Santa
Claus walks down avenues of teddy-bears
and smiling dolls. Christmas-trees sprout
miraculously on 'the ground floors, their
spreading branches reaching high and beat-
ing green- and gilt-fruited against the ceil-
ing, till wide-eyed babes think that the
branches pierce steel girders and wood panel-
ling and emerge finally in full bloom as tbe
toy departments. From the topmost storey of
the Pitt-street shops lines of bunting stretch
gaily, seeming to tether the verandahs to
the grey stone of the buildings. Balloons,
yellow and blue and red, float on every tram
and ferry traveller’s horizon, weighted down
by small girls and boys happily replete with
gaseous soft drinks and ice-creams. In short,
in spite of all our resolutions as to thrift,
the city’s heart is expanding with the Christ-
mas spirit. So, all together, ladies and
gentlemen, in one grand chorus that old pan-
tomime friend Jack Cannot will gladly lean
over the clouds to lead, “Hurray for things!”
Last week 52 Greenknowe-avenue in Dar-
linghurst sprang to historic eminence. In
future it will be pointed at as the temporary
home of the first Australian-born Governor-
General at the hour when the King appointed
him to the dazzling office. Fifty-two has
always been a favorite resting-place of the
Isaacs family when in Sydney, and although
hjs lady is still abroad the Chief Justice has
his abode there at the moment. Sydney is
thrilled over the new honor that has come
to this talented and kind-hearted family. In-
cidentally, representatives of foreign nations
should feel quite at home at the new G.-G.’s
table. He and his lady have the gift of
tongues; her French, particularly, is said
to be flawless.
Wilfred Blaxland, who died at. his Darling
Point home on Sunday, had been in the
Union Club, of which he was an old and
popular member, on the Saturday. A month
ago he was attacked by diphtheria, and
seemed to have made a complete recovery,
but his heart was affected, and that caused
his peaceful and painless end. He was a
bachelor, and the only prominent descendant
of the man who helped Wentworth and Law-
son to discover the Western Plains that
Sydney has been able to point to for many
years. Music was his chief delight, and. like
his sister Elsie, who died some years back,
he was an excellent pianist.
To help the Vaucluse branch of Associated
Music Clubs to carry forward a. credit into
the New Year, Mrs. Sterling Levis and Mrs.
Gilbert Graham hit on the idea of a
pageant, “Shades of Old Vaucluse,” which
was the star item of a bridge and dance
evening held at Vaucluse House. The organ-
isers ran to earth as many descendants of
old Vaucluse families as they could find
to represent (in costume) their own ances-
tors. Those netted included Dr. and Mrs.
Ben Edye, representing Captain and Mrs.
Piper; Mr. Cowper, who went disguised as
his own grandfather Alma Haycock, as Mrs.
Thomas Laycock; R. N. Swaiuson, who por-
trayed the illustrious Wentworth, supported
by Beatrice Tildesley, who went as Mrs.
Wentworth; and Padre M. Barder, as that
Captain Dumaresq who once owned the
Tivoli estate at Rose Bay. Knight Henry
Braddon introduced the characters, after
which the lancers were danced by all.
For a whole week the stage in David
Jones’s_ little theatre has seen a different
dramatic bill each day. The entertainments
were in aid of the Queen Victoria Homes for
Consumptives, and as a Christmas effort they
acted as a magnet on the pockets of the
Homes’ many friends. Of these are the Kelso
King lady, secretary Mrs. Harrie Vale and
treasurer Mrs. Ralph King. Grace Stafford
and her elocution pupils arranged the first
programme, a feature of which was a verse-
speaking choir who, in jacaranda-blue georg-
ettes and well-modulated voices, implored the
audience to “Come Down to Kew in Lilac
Time.” The Girl Guides, directed by Mrs.
Andrew Brennan, followed on with “The
Person in Pink.” Eleanor Ross furnished
Friday’s fare; the children from Doone pro-
duced “The Mad Hatter’s Tea Party,” with
their State Exes.’ Rosemary very fluffy as
Alice, and Rosemary Budge very cuddlesome
in her white rabbit-skin. Justice Gordon’s
lady directed yesterday’s theatricals with un-
abated enthusiasm, though anybody less
sprightly 'and gifted Would have been taking
a rest cure after the strain of producing last
week’s theatrical show at the Savoy.
# The Douglas Hope-Johnston couple, high-
lights of the Pioneers’ Club and the Women’s
Pioneer Society, were among the week-end
departures for Europe. The pair have been
enduring the usual round of social ameni-
ties, the Pioneers, both male and female,
practically emptying the tea-caddy in their
honor. The travellers may be relied on to
spread a knowledge of Australia’s history
wherever they go. In fact, Mr. Hope-John-
ston has pledged himself to try to get Aus-
tralian history taught in the English public
schools. Governor Phillip is the Hope-
Johnston hero, and love of country is part
of this staunch Australian’s make-up. The
Historical Society’s Aubrey Halloran and K.
It. Cramp, . Archdeacon Oakes, Carlotta
Doyle, secretary of the Women Pioneers, and
Mrs. Lingham, president, were notables who
thronged Burdekin House at last week’s
farewell.
There’s one distinguished man’s wife look-
ing forward to an increase instead of a
decrease in her housekeeping allowance. She
is the spouse of our first Australian-
born Governor-General. H'er husband’s
income as C.J. was £3500; as G.-G. it will
be £lO,OOO. The newG.-G.’s lady, here pictured,
has a passion for books and art; like her
daughters, Mrs. David Cohen and Mrs.
Sefton Cullen, she is an accomplished linguist
and has travelled extensively. She arrived
at Fremantle last night by the-Otranto, will
be in Adelaide next Saturday, and will reach
Sydney on the 18th. Hers should be a proud
home-coming. ,
Perhaps the member of the family best
known to Sydney is Nancy, the younger
daughter, who was for some years associate
to her father, and was as industrious in
her way as he. In one trial before her
father there were no fewer than 2000
documents involved: these she had tabu-
lated in such a manner that any docu-
ment required by counsel was forth-
coming almost instantly. The jury watched
her activities with interest, and the foreman
never failed to bring her a bouquet every
morning. Eleven years ago Nancy applied
for 12 months’ leave of absence to travel in
Europe with her sister, Mrs. David Cohen.
She did not return to her post, but married
in London Captain Sefton Cullen, a near
relative of George Judah Cohen, of Sydney.
For some time they lived in London, after-
wards making their home in Singapore for
five years. After leaving there they travelled
through China and had exciting adventures
in some of the war-stricken provinces;
from China they went to Japan and thence
to Sydney. Here the two stayed three months,
and then off they went again, this time for
a tour through Africa. It was from Switzer-
land that his daughter’s cable of congratula-
tion reached the new G.-G.
And, by the way, in Frank Gleeson our
new G.-G. has an amiable and well informed
secretary. There’s a dinltum sworn-on-oath
atmosphere about any information he gives
you that is as balm of Gilead to the feverish
nerves of the newspaper scribe.
With an interior decoration of turkey
bones and a collar of silver tissue, Warri-
gal, the Dan Kellys’ dog, was the most pride-
ful hound in Kirribilli last week. For there
was a wedding at Warranilla, and the friend
of all the family seemed to think it was his
doing. Dorothy Coffee, Mrs. Dan’s sister,
became Mrs. Keith Buchanan in the draw-
ing-room on the stroke of eight last
Thursday night, and she is now on
her way to England, where her ’groom, a
Noyes Brothers engineer, has an appoint-
ment for two and a half years. Like all the
Coffees, Dorothy chose a tall husband. He's
as high as, though more willowy than, either
of her brothers-in-law, surgeon Dan or Dr.
James Hughes. He’s as well-tailored, too,
as re;lation-by-marriage Gilbert Hughes,, and
that’s saying a good deal. Beside his six
foot four, Dorothy, who is about five foot
and slimly built, looked like a glittersome
doll in her white satin and froth of tulle.
Betty Buchanan, the groom’s niece, ’maided
in layers of turquoise organdie and tulle
girdled with a coral-pink velvet ribbon, and
little Hope Hughes, in toe-length rosy tulle,
a wreath in her dark hair, looked like a
small girl slipped out of a Gainsborough for
the occasion. Old family friend Father
Walsh superintended the ring-giving in front
of masses of carnations, pink gladioli and
roses. Blue and pijik were the note of the
decorations. Everywhere hydrangea lifted
its cool face, and snow-white tulle frivolously
gambolled about the banisters of the dark
old stairway. There were speeches and
champagne in the billiard-room, where the
lights above the table were arranged like a
peal of wedding bells, tangled up with roses
and carnations. Mrs. Dan Kelly, dagger
slim, hostessed in palest pink chiffons, Mrs.
Coffee wore burgundy lace, and Mrs. Robert
Buchanan allied black and silver. Mrs.
Hughes, just back from Europe the day
before, came in amethystine laces, and Mary
Hughes was sleekly gold.
Somebody with a bit of imagination is on
the committee for the Queen Victoria Homes,
judging by the title of the party organised
last week. It was blazoned “The Gloom-
chasers,” and the word “depression” wasn't
heard once in the Wentworth ballroom while
nearly 200 pairs of feet danced dull care
away. No down-in-the-mouths cluttered the
scenery, and the frocking was gay in hue. The
Keid lady, as the official hostess, expressed
herself in black satin and gardenias. Secre-
tary Lynette Clonan was rhythmic in leaf-
green and pink rosebuds; Mrs. Harry Vale
sprayed her cloud of black chiffons with
silver; and blue-clad Mrs. Lee sparked in
every cylinder and was in company with Mrs.
Cox-Roper, the night’s vice-president.
The death of Miss Lucy Darley, at the age
of 59, in England, emphasises again the
tendency of prominent Sydney families to
disintegrate. When she was a girl her
father, as Lieutenant-Governor and • Chief
Justice, and her tall and formidably-hand-
some mother ruled the social world of N. S.
Wales with an iron hand. Her tall, cheery,
red-faced barrister brother, Harry, was A.D.C.
to several Governors, and her younger
brother, Bertram, was often in Sydney. The
family then lived at Quambi—-afterwards sold
by the Chief Justice to Sep Levy, and now
owned by Kelso King. Then Sylvia, who was
the cleverest and most ambitious of the child-
ren, made, a brilliant marriage with Sir Wind-
ham Carmichael-Anstruther, and settled in
Scotland. The Chief Justice died, and his
widow settled in London, and during the
war Harry Darley, who had also gone to live
in London, died suddenly at the Automobile
Club. There is now not one Darley of this
line living in Australia. The Chief .lustier
came from Dublin, and his wife was of Irish
origin too, being a Browne, of Victoria—
sister of the “Rolf Boldrewood” who wrote
“Robbery Under Arms.”
If, as all the papers have been predicting,
I)r. H. V. Evatt next fills the Chief Justice’s
chair, it will be an astonishing success for a
young man who won’t be 37 till next April.
But then his life has been just one success
after another;.and for 10 years or more his
wife has had her full share in winning them.
Born in the United States, she was brought
to Australia when she was a few months old ;
her father, the late -S. F. Shelter, was on the.
pier at Auckland to welcome her. When she
met her future husband she was at Sydney
TJni. without any definite plans; and that was
best, because even before they married the
young lawyer’s plans and studies were hers,
and she has shared them ever since. She
shared, too, his feelings that there was some-
thing wrong with our little world, and that
it was the young man’s job to set it right;
and she threw herself into his campaigning
when he decided that he must join up with
the Labor party. In Dr. Evatt’s district
of Balmain, Mrs. Evatt was soon better
known than her husband; she won affection
while he commanded admiration. Before
last Christmas, when demands were first
heard for sacrifices of public servants’ pay,
the then member for Balmain began to pass
over his whole .salary for relief of local dis-
tress ; and he never touched it again. There’s
a boy, Peter, to be looked after, and a subur-
ban garden to be seen to and another at
Leura to be made; and there are books to
read—always books to read.
Our Brisbane Little Sister writes:—
At the Q.T.C. summer meeting Mrs. Geoff Barton
(Toweran) wore blue and coral silk; Mrs. Willie
Persse was in mastic Chantilly; Mrs. J. E. Stewart
in Lido blue and white-spotted silk; Mrs. Cecil
Palmer, just back from England, wore nigger brown
and white; Mrs. Cadell-Garrick chose black and
white muslin; Cecily Cadell-Garrick’s navy blue and
white Canton silk had touches of poinsettia red;
pretty Mrs. C. P. Buchanan was in amber, black
and white; and Cooee Blume wore rose and green.
At a farewell to Elsie Reed, who resigns her
position as general secretary to the Y.W.C.A., a gold
wristlet watch was presented to the guest of honor
on behalf of the board and members. Miss Reed
has been four years with the society; Rose Winter
will be her successor.
The Governor and Lady Goodwin were present at
the Cremorne comedies produced by Maxwell Mahon
in aid of the funds of the Charity Organisation
Society. Marjorie Hollinshed and Phyllis Danaher
supervised the dancing.
Lady Goodwin went, to the Domestic Science dis-
play at the Central Tech. Mrs. W. Young, officer
for the women’s work, received her Ex., who wore
saxe blue spotted crepe de Chine and a wide brimmed
hat. Mrs. Young took her Ex. through all tho
departments, dressmaking, millinery and cooking. A
Christmas supper was amongst the cookery displays
in the dining hall, preserves, jams and confectionery
being also on view. An embroidered bridal veil,
finely ’broidered lingerie, and a. gown of grey crepe
de Chine over pink, with Richelieu embroidery, were
among the other exhibits, and there were cambric
frocks and straw and linen hats, the work of the
dressmaking and millinery students. There was a
concert during the afternoon.
At Tobermory station, Thargomindah, W. G. Mac-
kenzie, of Melbourne, was married to Jean, elder
daughter of the late J. L. Watts and of Mrs. Watts,
Tobermory. The bride was given away by her
brother, J. S. Watts, in ivory duchesse satin and a
veil of Limerick. She carried pink roses and cream
carnations. Mary Watts ’maided in lemon crepe de
Chine. Bowls of pink phlox decorated the wedding
breakfast' tables.
And from Perth :
Sita Stapleton electrified society by announcing
her engagement to Lionel Wills of the well-known
tobacco firm. The 22nd of December has been chosen
for the wedding. After a honeymoon in Sydney
and M.L., the couple will settle in England. Five
cars and an aeroplane are among the accessories at
the home of the bridegroom-to-be.
At the recital by Anita F-itzGerald’s pupils, 25
pretty children opened the programme with a juvenile
play, “The Ugly Duckling.” Hilda Jones, Sheila
Gill, Phyllis Caporn, Poppy Yoxhall and Betty
Higham were among the youthful actresses in
“Sakura,” a playlet of cherry-blossom time in Japan.
A scene from the “Houseboat on the Styx” saw
four small boys as the conferring shades. The
artistry of Anita Fitz Gerald and little Betty Higham,
an accomplished actress at 8, was shown to advant-
age in a scene from “Little Lord Fauntleroy.” An
excerpt from “King Lear,” by Laurel Berryman,
“The Life of a Tree,” danced by Edith Frazer, and
a peep at a corner of “Quality Street” were all
good items.
Joyce Saunders and Victor Steffanoni were made
one in St. George’s Cathedral amidst the glitter of
brass buttons, red braid on undress uniforms and
an arch of swords. The bride’s ivory satins, ruched
about the corsage, fell in a train from the full skirt.
A cloud of tulle was coroneted above her brow
with rhinestones, and seed pearls edged the neckline.
Bride’s sister Mrs. Stoyle-Higgins attended in red
georgettes, and ’maids Olive and Rita Steffanoni,
Becca Davies and Phyllis Donaldson wore deep red
moire, and cream roses under the wide brims of
their red straw hats.
Josephine Curtis, whose rich contralto won her
the Royal College of Music’s scholarship for singing,
sipped a farewell cup of tea with the past and
present pupils of St. Brigid’s Convent. A travelling-
rug, a fountain-pen and a bunch of red roses were
handed to the young singer,' whose “Silent Moon”
evoked great applause. Miss Curtis boards the
Hobson's Bay on December 11.
Squadron-Leader and Mrs. F. W. Lukis leave by
the Cathay for England after having spent a fort-
night in their home State, seeing old friends of their
respective single days. The S.-L. has been chosen
for two years’ special staff work in connection with
the Royal Air Force. Before her marriage Mrs. Lukis
was Miss Florence Allan.
On a day when the sun’s rays burned the green
vitality out of lawns and hedges, the Children’s
Hospital Auxiliary made its biggest annual effort to
replenish the institution’s linen cupboards. A fete
in the hospital grounds was the money-getter. Iris
Moore presented a posy of delphiniums to her Ex.,
who came with .Mrs. Kerr-Pearse to declare the fete
open. President R. O. Law and Mrs. Dorry each
said a few words and Mrs. Shorthand-Jones had a
life-governor’s badge pinned upon her frock. Mrs.
Fethers, Mi’s. Wilkie, Mrs. Shean, Barbara Spencer,
Doreen Sheridan, Sheila McClenians and Lynette
Clarke were in the voluntary band of workers.


LIFE INSURANCE
Is the most effective instrument ever
devised by human intelligence for the
promotion of industry, saving, character
and happiness.
Insure Your Life with
A.M.P. SOCIETY
ASSETS £78,500,000
A MUTUAL institution where the whole of the available surplus
is divided ANNUALLY amongst the participating members.
ENQUIRIES INVITED.
Head Office:
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
F. T. BRIDGES,
General Manager.
Offices in the leading Country towns, and field representatives in all Districts.
SSBBSW
1
IiM&T.
?
SWAN
UiC T
2&
vfjAN
f c .
si
r
*4 3cf
VVM^
iniiilimm
*•*!!>>
\W
Jade with
Boiled Gold
Bands
30'-
5.F.230 C
Black or
Mottled
(with clip)
27/6
Lest this should be your
regret, decide now to give
‘Swan* Pens this Christmas.
There is a pleasing range of
models to suit every taste
and the * Swan/ in delight-
ful colours, either singly, or
with a ‘ Fyne-Poynt * Pencil
as a gift set, makes a charm-
ing present for either a lady
or gentleman.
COLOURED “SWANS” from 22/6
(OTHER SELF-FILLING “SWANS” from 17/6
Black or Mottled).
“ Fyne-Poynt ” Pencils from 7/6
Self-FJling “Blackbird” Pens from 9/-
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
PEN
Illustrated Catalogue post free
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
Swan House, London, W.i.
Factories: London and Liverpool
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depot
PHIPSON & COMPANY, Ltd.,
181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY,
&&& give
-measure
FOR
'SWAN*
PENS
_ I. HIIIUIUIIIIIIIJ
66 THE HEW ‘SWA#* ,N EXQUISITE CO WUlt s
IIIIIHIIiIIIi 11l ' " ' r T in Hllilliniliiriiliiiii.il, l •' • ' '•i.in'iill'Millliniiiliiliir'
H (A.)
Diamond Rings and Diamond-Set
Watches of Special Value
255.
Diamond Ring,
with diamond-set
shoulders, £3O.
Three-Diamond
Ring, with diamond-
set shoulders,
£27/10/-
Calibre-cut D i a-
mond Ring, with
diamond-set shoul-
ders, £37/10/-
T.wo-diamond Ring,
with diamond-set
shoulders, £3O.
Circle Ring set
with 25 brilliant
cut Diamonds.
Rest value in Aus-
tralasia, £lB/18/-
Others from
£l2/10/-
Diamond Ring,
ith diamond-set
shoulders,
£25
£2O
fdg
£2O
Compare this ring with any other ring
offered at the same price. The quality oi
the diamond and the “Drummond” work-
manship are unobtainable elsewhere, and
it is confidently asserted that this ring,
which is the most popular design at the
present time, represents the best value in
Australia.
Country residents can purchase this ring
with the assurance that money will be
refunded if not approved of. Ask for T. 21
T. 19
Pure Platinum Wedding Rings—chased.
Wonderful value, £2/10/-
Lowest price in Melbourne for a pure
Platinum Ring. Ask for T. 19.
Also in 18ct. white gold, 21/-
Diamond Ring,
with diamond-set;
step shoulders,
£3O
Diamond Ring,
with diamond-set
shoulders,
£37/10/-
Calibre-cut Dia-
mond Ring, with
diamond shoulders,
£6O
Diamond Ring
with diamond
shoulders, £B5
r
m
C\'<»
Lady’s Wristlet Watch, set with 30 Fine
Quality Diamonds, £26/5/-
Lady’s 18-carat White Gold Wristlet Watch,
set with 90 fine quality diamonds. Ihe
lever movement is fully jewelled and com-
pensated. Exceptional timekeeper, £6O.
'"THE illustrations are the exact size of the rings offered, and represent
a few of what constitutes the largest and finest range of rings
in the Commonwealth. Prices of all rings can be varied according to
quality and size of gems desired.
Wm. DRUMMOND & CO.,
JEWELLERS,
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
''vlj'ijy
111
m
v ' x
I V*
m
&
&
&2±
i. •.:■■?:!' '
e?
&y
<\r,
MT
Hi
*r*<
•CJS
> :
Mailed to you direct from
the factory the day they
are made.
for
Ct)riSlttMs
The Famous Red Box of
LLIERS
u
n
CHOCOLATES
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6, 20/-,
30/-, 37/6
ERNEST HILLIER,
162 Pitt Street, Sydney; and at Melbourne
fd
(PATON)


For 136 years
Rowland’s Macassar Oil has been a favorite
dressing for the hair. Its close resemblance
to the natural oil has caused it to be used
more and more as something better than a
hair dressing. It keeps the hair healthy, and
prevents the encroachment of greyness and
baldness.
Of all Chemists,
Stores and Hair-
dressers. Red for
dark hair; golden
for fair or grey
hair.
m
Ri
w
.land's
Oil
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.1.,
ENGLAND. c.t.p.65
Food
Herd. Tradk Ma its.
The restful food
When digestion and nerves
are deranged, Benger’s Food is
both soothing and satisfying.
A cupful taken at bedtime is
comforting and sleep inducing.
Every case needing digestive help is
a case for Benger’s Food.
Dr.
Write for booklet to: —BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St. Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGEB’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner, d
la carte, from 1/6. Inclusive tariff from 13/6 per
day; £4/4/- weekly. Special quotations for sport-
ing bodies, 1 etc;' Situated right opposite Spencer
Street Station, no taxi fares; railway porter carries
baggage across if necessary. Please write for detailed
tariff card. Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is sufficient
address.
Melbourne
Chatt er
Buckle y's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
[?] Contral 800 for [?]
Buckley C-Nunn limited
[?]
Deluges of rain interfered with the inter-
state tennis championships at Kooyong,
play being impossible on Saturday. Friday
was hot and humid, and conditions were a
bit unpleasant for both players and onlook-
ers. The president of the Tennis Associa-
tion, Norman Brookes, was there with his
wife, who wore black-grey-and-wliite chiffon
with a black hat. Others who watched were
the Gerald Pattersons, she in fawn and
brown, with straw millinery; the Arthur
Spragues, Mrs. Sclilesinger, Mrs. Telford
Smith and Mrs. Clemenger. Groups of girls
wearing cool-looking cotton or silk frocks
with stitched linen hats were clustered round
the courts where junior players showed their
prowess. Gay sunshades and gayer scarves
protected them from the sun.
At the Methodist Ladies’ College a garden
party was given by the Old Collegians’ Club.
About 200 guests strolled about the pictur-
esque grounds and took tea in the Arts’
School. There were songs by Mrs. T. Rey-
nolds, and the orchestra of the R.\ r .I.R.
played. Principal Grove and his wife, she
in smoke-blue ctope de Chine, had aid in
receiving the guests from the headmistress
and the office-bearers of the 0.C.C., who
included the president, Mrs. E. T. Bailey,
and the hon. sec., Edith Barker. As a
recognition of her work for the club. Miss
D. Kerr, the former hon. sec., was given a
pair of crystal candlesticks.
There was a fail 1 , housed in stalls beneath
gay umbrellas, in the garden of the David
Carnegies’ home at Kew for the Burnley
Free Kindergarten. Federal Opposition-
Leader Latham attended with Mrs. Latham,
and launched the venture. Mr. and Mrs. Car-
negie are at present abroad, so their daugh-
ters Muriel and Dorothy and sons Jervis
and Stanley received the guests, having Mrs.
Victor Wischer as hon. organiser. The
acting-Mayoress of Kew, Miss Mathers, was
among the visitors, and she and Mrs. Latham
received posies.
The weather luck of Moonee Valley took
a holiday on Saturday. At noon the club
had to cancel the charity meeting on behalf
of the V.R.C. Benevolent Fund —for the
rain poured steadily. The concluding day
of the gala to help unemployed girls had
also to be declared off.
The Christmas Fair in aid of the Insti
tute for the Blind opened on the hottest
day we’ve so far had, and was followed by a
storm in the evening, but the workers weren’t
daunted. Mayoress Luxton launched the
sales, which were enlivened by a bevy of
Malvern workers attired as costers. Mrs.
S. W. Hedger, wife of the superintendent—
she is the institution’s secretary—was one
of the leaders of the effort, and the presi-
dent of the Council of Auxiliaries, Mrs. J.
Frost, was a very busy person. A pleasant
interlude was a display of folk-dancing by
blind boys and girls.
The “Girls’ Week” appeal of the central
council of the benevolent .societies, intended
to relieve feminine unemployment, aimed at
raising £5OOO. but only £BOO was collected.
Undaunted, the members engineered a fete
on the Henley lawns that endured for a
week. The Lud Mayor lent his houseboat
for the benefit of bifidge-loving patrons.
Beneath an immense marquee there were
stalls for the sale, of articles of apparel and
fancy goods made by girls. Among the
attractions was the Curtiss air pilot instruc-
tor, just brought to Australia by the Vacuum
Oil Co. With this little model the mani-
pulation of aeroplane controls is demon-
strated. The novice pilot who was able to
manage the machine most skilfully was re-
warded with a flight over the city in the ,
Southern Moon.
Josie Melville, smart in a green-and-white-
patterned frock, topped by a green hat, was
a guest of the Austral Salon at the last billy-
boiling of the year. Iris Shaw, the Salon’s
hon. sec., gave the actress a posie of pansies.
Miss Melville was accompanied by her
mother, who wore black and white. Mrs.
I'. W. Scott, clothed in marocain of mush-
room-brown and straw hat of the same shade,
and Miss M. Spottiswood, whose navy gown
was brightened with pink, were joint hos-
tesses. Music was made by Mary Brown,
Pauline Allen, Natalie Dawson and George
Cowley, and Victor Trotman recited.
Mrs. G. D. Delprat presided over a dis-
tribution of tea and cakes at the Alexandra
Club on a recent afternoon as greeting and
farewell to her daughter, the Mawson lady,
who was returning to Adelaide after waving
good-byes to the Discovery. Mrs. Allen Simp-
son, also of S.A. and a friend of the ex-
plorer’s wife, was also a guest of honor.
'When Marjorie, daughter of the F. S.
Ormistons, of Cliveden Mansions, married
Bertram, second son of Mrs. J. Lazarus, of St.
Kilda, her gown was white and silver bro-
cade and white georgette over which fell a
veil of fine silk net anchored to a halo of
orange buds. She held a great sheaf of
Christmas lilies. Elaine Michaelis, of Syd-
ney, the bridesmaid, wore lace of light daffo-
dil tint, with pearls twined about her hair.
Little Diana Ormiston, in frilled frock of
net of golden tint, was in charge of the lead-
ing lady’s train.
News has come of the marriage in Tangan-
yika of Kathleen, elder daughter of the
A. ,T. Whites, of Cobar,. N. S. Wales, and
the Rev. R. B. Plinn. a padre who ministers'
to Black Brother under the crook of Bishop
Chambers. The bride, who was at one time
directress of the Brunswick Free Kinder-
garten, migrated from Melbourne many
months ago with Dr. Buntine, now medical
missionary at Killamatindc.
Mary Powell, when sin; weds Kingsford
Smith at the Collins-street kirk to-night, will
wear a gown of white and silver. .Boris
Kingsford Smith, from ’Frisco, a relative ot
the ’groom; Molly Mcßride, of Adelaide;
Kathleen Gepp and Margery Calthorpe will
furnish a blue and silver background.
The St. Kilda branch of the Ministering
Children’s League, which directs the “Cottage
by the Sea” at Queenscliff, had a. bridge
party the other night in aid of the institu-
tion. Mrs. S. Jacoby, president of the
branch, and Mrs. A. Yale, the hon. sec.,
were at the head of affairs.
Tea parties are being held in honor of
Jean Christie, a protegee of Mrs: Jimmy
Dyer. Miss Christie has returned to Mel-
bourne after six years’ pianoforte study
abroad—at the R.C.M. with Dr Whittaker,
at Glasgow, and in Paris with Cortot. She
also had lessons from the famous Polish
teacher Madame Wanda Landowska, and
spent some time in Italy.
Mrs. Henrietta Walker’s sale' of articles
made out of bnshland products was supple-
mented this year by garden pottery, the work
of Michael O’Connell, and woodcuts, calendars
and other articles suitable for Christmas
presents. Mrs. Walker, who is the inventor
of several new methods of using bark, raffia
and flax, gives employment to several blind
and crippled soldiers.
Pianist Wilhelm Backhaus will get a
pleasant surprise on Christmas Day—the
gift of a still-life study painted by Aileen
Dent, of this city. Visiting Miss Dent’s
studio he admired the picture exceedingly.
Unknown to him, his wife purchased it,
and the. artist, who was in the joke, was
quite truthfully able to state that it. was
.sold when Herr Backhaus wanted to buy it.
Among other specimens of Australian art
picked up hy the Backhouses during their
stay are a piece by Hans Heysen and some
sketches by Norman Lindsay.
This is a Broothoru portrait of Alison
Mein, who is
organising a
tennis tourna-
ment on behalf
of the Country
W o m e n ’s
Association’s
seaside hostel,
Somers House.
The matches
ar e to be
played at the
home of Mrs.
J. M. Pitten-
drigh, Toorak,
and neighbor-
ing courts
next Saturday.
A dance in the
evening at the
home of the
W. Poulteney
M eins, parents
of the young
lady, is de-
signed to bring in some more coin for the
good cause.
Mrs. A. J. Noall and her daughters Lorua
and Edith came from Woodend, which is
next door to Mt. Maccdon, to entertain
several friends at a bridge party at the
Quamby Club,
At the Royal Auto. Club the welfare circle
of the Windsor Hostel of the Association for
the Advancement of the Blind met at the
.behest of their president, Mrs. H. J. Robert-
son, for tea. and chat, with a fortune-teller
to hand out cheering news about the future.
The lion. sec.. Mrs. J. B. Mills, Mrs. Edgar
Dye and Mrs. J. W, Barnes were in the
throng.
The Women Citizens’ movement has ended
the year with a very small bank balance,
and to replenish the war-chest the first of
a series of informal little gatherings was
held at the English-Speaking Union’s rooms
on Saturday night, with the president, Mrs.
Britomarte .Tames, as hostess. Claire Miles
appeared in a scene from “The School for
Scandal’’ with N. Garnet. Songs were con-
tributed by Gelia McLeod, Jean Batty and
David Hargraves, and Kathleen Layis was
the pianist. Yvonne Levoi, the nine-year-
old niece of the hon. sec., Mrs. Rapke, showed
cleverness in a character study. Dorothy
O’Keefe, Robert Ingram and Norm Swain
gave a Dickens sketch.
Articles made by incapacitated soldiers at
the military hospitals and the Red Cross
Home were on sale at No. 9 last week, and
many people found there a solution to some
of their Christmas-gift problems. The sale
is being continued at the depot in Regent-
avenue, beside the Regent Theatre.
A parade of wedding finery at one of our big
drapery establishments was a diversion of the
week-end. Feminine sightseers came out of
the rain to contemplate 'creamy satin that
hung in Grecian mode upon a slim figure,
and was covered by a cascade of tulle that
swept the grey carpet. The designers, Paton,
Molyneaux and Lelong, were represented in
groups of bridal apparel, the whole outfit
for bride and attendants being designed to
harmonise. In the matter of trains, the style
most favored by modern fashion-makers is
that which is part of the skirt. Parchment-
toned or white satin is usually selected for
the leading lady, with silk lace allied to
filmy net for a very youthful bride. For the
’maids, pink, in the shade known as Paton,
is the thing, in organdie, lace, ninon or other
diaphanous material.
Brootliorn pictures here Mrs. Allen Rob-
ertson. wife of
Dr. Allen Ilob-
ertson, who is
being handed
welcoming
cups of tea on
li e r re tu r n
from a jour-
ne y abroad
with her hus-
bau'd. Though
hardly settled
down yet she
has recom-
menced h e r
work in con-
nection with
the Colling-
wood crfeche.
Most of her
holiday was
spent motor-
ing with her
husband in
England, Scot-
laud, Ireland and on the Continent,
Overseas musical critics have said nice
tilings about the voice of Dorothy Canberra,
stage name of a daughter of the Rev. T. J.
and Mrs. Thomas, of Caulfield. A graduate
of the Albert-street Con., this girl became a
pupil of Marchesi. After concert appear-
ances in the south of France she joined the
Gura Opera Co., of Berlin. Her recent re-
citals at the iEolian Hall, London, and in
the Beehsteinsaal of the German capital,
Lave established her as a soprano in the first
rank.
Exiles who returned last week included
sculptor Ola Cobn, Myra Morris, poetess
and writer of stories, and the Desmond
O’Sheas. Mr. O’Shea has put in 18 months
at Woolwich arsenal studying the manufac-
ture of munitions.
Among the passengers who returned to Aus-
tralia by the Orford were Mrs. Askin Foster
and her two daughters, the Frank Stuarts
and Beth. On its return journey the liner
will carry the Peter Lucinis and their
daughters Tinker and Amy to Ceylon.
Helen Serjeant White is back in Mel-
bourne after six months’ residence on Erl-
dunda, the Centralian station of Mr. and
Mrs. Sidney Stanes. The broad acres, which
are given over to the breeding of Hereford
cattle and artillery horses for India, were
taken up 40 years ago by the late John
Warburton. Miss White, who is a daughter
of the late Mrs. Serjeant White, one of our
women journalists of the last generation,
intends to write about her experiences.
The C. J. Aherns’ eldest daughter, Kath-
leen, just returned from a 15-months’ sojourn
in Britain, was one of the 12 bridesmaids
of Lady Helena Rous when she was married
to Major Beresford-Ash. Lady Helena is
a daughter of Lord Stradbroke, formerly
Governor of this State.
After three years’ study of garden lore in
England and Europe, Joan Anderson, of
Mont Albert, is being welcomed home. A
graduate of the Burnley Horticultural
School, Miss Anderson laid out the flower-
beds around Coombe Cottage, Melba’s pic-
turesque residence at Lilydale. In England
she studied landscape gardening under John
Wood.
An addition to our charity organisations
is the Bine Bird League, formed by a number
of citizenesses who have roped in a bunch of
the younger set to help distribute comfort
and cheer to those who are suffering through
unemployment and sickness. These girls are
most enthusiastic about their duties. At
present they are supplying nine families
about St. Kilda with food and clothing and
furniture, and in some cases paying their
rent. The 8.8. L. finances its benevolences by
a subscription of sixpence per week from
numerous friends, and from the proceeds of
bridge parties.
Kerry Kelly, a Melbourne girl who was
seen on the boards here in plays under the
Carroll and J.C.W. banners, is making good
in London in another line. Not very long
ago she departed for England encouraged by
Margaret Bannerman, and was lucky enough
to secure a part in “A Damsel in Distress’
for a provincial tour. Then she got a job
in a beauty parlor, and is now with Harrod s,
where, after experience in various depart-
ments, she has settled down in the millinery
section.
Our Adelaide “Little Sister” writes:—
One of the most popular fetes of the year is the
annual function at the Adelaide Children’s Hospital.
Last week the undulating lawn at the back of the
institution was packed witli women and children, and
from the wide balcony the tiny invalids watched the
gay scene. Society is always featured among the
stallholders, and as they buy nobly of one another
the money soon mounts into hundreds. Lady Hore-
Ruthven performed the opening ceremony gowned in
biscuit lace, and a wide-brimmed hat to match.
The wards vied with each other in the matter of
floral decoration, Suzanne Ward being voted the best.
Father Christmas, perspiring profusely in his robes of
office, was as sought after as ever; Punch and Judy
and a merry-go-round were other attractions.
When the Mayoress entertained the mayoresses of
suburban municipalities, wives of chairmen of district
councils and ladies of executive committees With
which she had been associated during her term of
office, the reception-room was gorgeous with gladioli
and giant delphinium. Mrs. Bonython was smart in
black georgette, with a pin-ticked cape and a wide-
brimmed black straw hat. Songs were contributed
by Charles Gordon.
As a- farewell to Lady Hore-Ruthven, Mrs. Laving-
ton Bonython gave a most enjoyable at-home at her
residence, St. Corantyn, East-terrace. About 200
guests were present. The Mayoress received, wearing
a cool-looking white and pale green ninon frock, and
carried a sheaf of blue delphiniums and pink car-
nations presented to her by the Alliance Franeaise.
Lady Hore-Ruthven was in a maize crepe satin
toilette add a light brown ballibuntal straw hat.
Representatives of all the charitable institutions with
which Mrs. Bonython has been associated were
invited. Tea was served in the ballroom, the
dining-room and the wide verandah. Jean Collett
sang delightfully during the afternoon.
The Society of Arts held their last meeting for
the year on Wednesday evening. President L. H.
Howie received the guests, and Mr. John White
gave the prizes for the most original head-dresses,
awarded to Miss Muriel Oldfield (Welsh) and Mr.
H. E. Fuller (Fijian chief). Miss Paula Brain
contributed stage dancing.
Adelaide University students held an alfresco
entertainment in the form of a cabaret in the
Cloisters. Thousands of colored lights, an excellent
orchestra, supper served at small tables, and dancing
on the lawn and in the refectory made quite a
Continental affair of it, and it was 3 a.m. before
the party broke up. The amateur waiters, boys and
girls, were dressed as pirates. The ’Varsity boys
are putting their annual show on at the Theatre
Royal on Thursday night, December 18.
In addition to securing the Rhodes Scholarship,
Brian Maegraith lias become engaged to charming
Lorn Langley.
And from Hobart:—
Members of the Art Society clubbed together and
purchased a drawing by the late George Lambert, of
whose works we have hitherto had none in the
Speck. President L. Deehaineux made the formal
presentation to the Art Gallery trustees, and
Dr. Arndill Lewis thanked the society for the gift.
The work is a pencil drawing of a woman’s head,
entitled “Beatrice.”
. To raise the wind for the Church Hospital—■
formerly the old Homoeopathic—on the Cascade-road,
the Rev. W. It. Barrett and Mrs. Blackwood joined
forces in the secretarial work of a Paddy’s .Market,
which did good business in the City Hall. Combined
churches ran the stalls, all the southern parishes
being represented, and the hard work of the helpers
showed satisfactory results.
Miss O’Grady’s last weeks in the Speck have given
her a fine variety of experience in opening fairs
and presenting prizes, etc. She is in request all
over the islet and has taken the keenest -interest
in all the work that has devolved on her.
President’s Day at Kingston Beach golf links
struck one of our best patches of weather. The C.
E. Websters welcomed and fed a big crowd of players
and guests in the clubhouse arid in the marquee
erected to hold the overflow. Mrs. Waugh and Miss
Webster were welcomed home by many friends on
their reappearance on the links.
Mrs. Tom Lyons is off on a long visit to daughter
Rhoria (Mrs. John Clarke) in Rangoon. She expects
to be away for several months.
And from Darwin :
Robert Delhi Dugdale, who died recently at Dar-
win, published a successful novel, “The Way of the
World,” a few years ago, and left other literary-
work in manuscript. He was an enthusiastic phila-
telist, an ardent spiritualist, and a fine old gentle-
man.
Death has taken the wife of Mr. Alf Mettam, of
the Public Works, Darwin. She was a daughter of
the iate Nicholas Holtze, for many years a leading
Government official here. Two little sons survive.


SUMMER IS ALWAYS SPRING
at
Mt. Buffalo, National Park, Victoria.
Throughout the summer months the cool mountain air is scented
with the sweet breath of spring. Last summer’s maximum tempera-
ture was only 78.
Pleasant, easy walks to vantage points commanding wonderful
panoramic views, boating, fishing and swimming in placid Lake
Catani, and the service and appointments of the renowned Chalet
make Mt. Buffalo the ideal summer resort.
Inquire at the
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
Martin Place, Sydney; or Queen’s Walk, Melbourne.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
<r
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
BREAK O' DAY
BY JOHN CRISP
Illustrations by Scorfield
Synopsis : Dan Digby, a giant of a
man, is transported to Tasmania for
smuggling. He escapes to the main-
land, is again in trouble, and is being
taken back to Adelaide. On the way
he refuses to go any further, and is
chained to a tree. He is saved from
dingoes by Hawke and Hales, two
other fugitives. He takes command
of them, and formulates a scheme to
seize a cutter and sail to New Zealand.
He includes Sam Morgan, another
escapee, in the party. They get away
from the S. Australian coast safely,
though short of food and water; but
only Digby ‘reaches New Zealand. _ He
soon starts trading and acquiring
land, and has had much success when
he meets and marries Margaret Cam-
eron. Bess is born, the mother dies, and
the girl grows up with her father at
Maxwelton, until she is sent to an Eng-
lish school, Allan Macalister, a young
Highland shepherd, had got work near
Maxwelton, and throws himself into
the Land League movement to have
the big estates cut up among small
settlers. He has a son, Malcolm
Ccesar, brought into the world with
great difficulty by an eccentric doctor
and Old Mother Deans. Allan's em-
ployer, Sir Alfred Richmond, Bart.,
is rescued from financial difficulties by
Bess, who proposes, marries him and
soon has him in Parliament and the
Hermitage and its racing stables on a
sound footing. Regarding Macalister
as a danger, she easily convinces Sir
Alfred that he should be discharged,
Chapter XIII.
DRESSED in his broadcloth, Allan
arrived at the office a few minutes
before eight o’clock. James Wilt-
shire was arranging the room in anticipa-
tion of the arrival of Lady and Sir Alfred
Richmond. The manager was out of sorts.
Anything untoward upset him. He gave
Allan a laconic “Good morning,” and busied
himself with the furniture.
Punctually at eight Sir Alfred and his
lady entered the office, greeted their em-
ployees, who had risen at their entrance,
and took their seats. Lady Richmond sat
at the head of the table, with her husband
on her right and the manager on her left.
Macalister occupied the remaining chair,
at the end of the table, opposite her Lady-
ship. Lady Richmond was dressed in black
velvet, her only ornament a cameo brooch
which clasped the bodice at the throat. The
heavy gold-red hair waved back from the
wide brow, the clean-cut features relieved
of masculinity by the delicate purity of
the skin, and vitalised by a pair of com-
pelling grey eyes that betrayed the strength
behind. The mediocre male figures on her
either side served to throw her into greater
relief, and the powerful, passionate man
who sat at the table-end made for her a
worthy vis-a-vis.
She sat bolt upright, the tips of her
fingers resting on the table, and fixed her
esms on Macalister.
“Allan Macalister,” she said, “I gather
from the books that you have been em-
ployed at the Hermitage for close on
eleven years.”
Never before had Allan been so close to
Lady Richmond. She had greeted him
several times in passing, but he had never
had a good look at her, so little was he
about the homestead. Now, the more he
considered her, the more was he impressed
with the idea that he would like to have
her on his side. A queenly woman, he
thought, who would fight masterfully for
her own, and about whom there was no-
thing petty. But this was the face of one
who could never forgive; it would be use-
less for man or woman to appeal for mercy
there. One reply only could come from
the cold deeps of those beautiful grey eyes:
“God may forgive you, but I never will.”
She was speaking to him in a deep but
not loud voice; speaking as a lady speaks
to the manner born; strange—who would
ever think she was the daughter of an old
lag! But why not in the land of oppor-
tunity? Was this
“You have been employed at the Her-
mitage for close on eleven years?”
Allan returned to the business in hand
and replied, sitting forward in his chair.
"Yes, Lady Richmond, about that.”
Lady Richmond’s mind was busy with
the personality of the shepherd. “Here is
a man who was somehow diffei*ent from the
generality of men,” she summed him up.
He makes the men on either side of me
look callow and unfinished. He is all
strength—inside and out. What a man
to have on one’s side! What a devil on
the other! And we’re nursing him for
the day when he’ll wreck the institution
that feeds and clothes him! Little use to
bandy words with him! He is honesty in-
carnate. If he will pass his word to give
up politics, and I hope he will,, we’ll keep
him. If not, he must go at once. No use
trying to cajole, and one would only make
oneself ridiculous by threatening him!”
Lady Richmond glanced at her husband
nervously rolling scraps of blotting paper
into pellets, and the thought flashed through
her mind that Mrs. Macalister was a fortu-
nate woman.
“I want to say to you, Allan Macalister,
that we can no longer tolerate anyone em-
ployed on this station identifying himself
as you have been doing with a political
party that is seeking the ruination of this
country.”
“You’ll excuse me, Ma’am,” replied Allan,
“I have identified myself with no such
party. I am”
“That will do, sir,” she interrupted. “I
don’t wish to split words with you. Answer
me this. Do you not attend the meetings
of the Radical politicians in Moana, and
have you not spoken time and again against
the present system of land tenure in this
country, and against the freehold?”
“Certainly I belong to the Radicals,”
Allan answered. “And so long as I have
a tongue in my head I’ll speak against the
iniquity of tying up large tracts of arable
land for the benefit of a few’ pastoralists,
many of”- -
“We don’t wish to hear anything about
that. Are you”
Allan’s eyes flashed at her Ladyship’s
interruption, and he in turn interrupted.
“But I wish that you should hear about
it. Ma’am, and Sir Alfred, too. Person-
ally I have not a v r ord to say against either
of you”
Allan stopped as Lady Richmond held
up her hand. “Please do not be imperti-
nent,” she said. “It is of no consequence
what you think or say of us personally, but
we are much concerned to learn that you
have been trying to bite the hand that
feeds you.”
Lady Richmond spoke without heat, but
there was conscious restraint in her manner,
as if she would conserve her strength.
“The daily bread that is eaten by me
and mine is given by no hand,” Allan
replied in measured terms. “It is earned
by the sweat of my brow, and I think that
even you, Ma’am, won’t deny that I give
good measure.”
“Macalister,” her Ladyship began, “we
want”
“Please,” interposed Allan, raising his
hand, “I am not finished. I won’t keep yon
long. I am going to say this, for eleven
years the Hermitage has bought my labor
and paid for it, and there the relationship
ends. The Hermitage has no claim on me
apart from my work. I am free to hold
and express what opinions I choose. If
not, then I would be a slave. You, Ma’am,
W'ere you in my place, would say the same
thing as I am saying, or I’m no judge of
faces.”
Their eyes met. Each pair, the grey and
the black, made a pass to get under the
guard of the other, but neither succeeded.
Y r et in that instantaneous encounter was
begotten mutual respect and regret. ■
“I am quite finished,” Allan added, “and
I ask your pardon if I have been over-
long.” ‘
“You can take your choice,” her Lady-
ship said, “of giving me now your promise
to refrain hereafter from attending the
meetings of the Radicals or in any way
associating with them, and also to refrain
from speaking publicly against the land
system, or of leaving the Hermitage one
month from this date. You can have till
this evening to make up your mind.”
“Your Ladyship,” said Allan, “I give you
my answer now. One month from to-day
I shall leave the Hermitage.”
It seemed to Lady Richmond that she
had lost the day, and her temper was a
trifle ruffled. To her mind the workers of
the station were dependants who could
have no other life than that provided by
their employers. Allan Macalister was
guilty of base ingratitude. To eat the Her-
mitage bread for eleven years, then to be
! so willing, not only to give up his place,
but to go from it with his hand raised
against the home that had sheltered him!
Her finger-tips drummed on the table.
Sir Alfred, knowing the symptoms and
hating anything in the nature of a scene,
cast a hurried glance at his wife’s face
and hazarded the suggestion, “Well, I sup-
pose there’s nothing more to be said,” and
made to rise from his chair, but a look
from his wife sent him back with a slump.
Macalister’s last words had the effect
of turning Lady Richmand back to Bess
Digby, own daughter of Daniel Digby, and
as such she spoke. “Macalister, you and
your wife came penniless to this colony,
and you found for eleven years a good
home on this station. You were picked
up, I believe, from the boat you arrived in.
You might have known what it was like
to go hungry, you and your wife, but for
this station. And now you repay with
base ingratitude!”
“I beg your pardon, Lady Richmond,”
exclaimed Allan, striking the table with his
clenched fist and rising stiffly to his feet,
“that is false! My services were bought
by the manager of this station, and I have
given as much to its interests as it has
given to my pocket, if not more. One
word more. No! I might say something
that I’ll be sorry for. I’ll say no more.”
With which Allan Macalister turned on his
heel and left the room.
Chapter XIV.
Jessie Macalister w T as a devout woman
and a devout wife. She worshipped God
and her husband. Trouble she attributed to
the will of the Supreme Being; prosperity
to the judgment and efficiency of Allan.
Always she worked hard, from daylight to
dark. She could not remember the time
when she did not work: she did not know
what it was to be tired, because that was
her normal condition. She followed the
course that Allan set, never asking whither?
During the eleven years they worked on the
Hermitage she slaved and saved for the
day when he would strike out on his own
account. Then she would work by his side
building stone for stone.
When Allan had told her of the offer
Colin Menzies had made she was all for
seizing the first favorable opportunity, and
said so. It came a few weeks later, when
Allan was offered Raeburn farm. The
place had been leased to the Wallace
brothers, but they did not propose to renew,
as they could not make it pay.
“I’ll tell you what,” announced Allan one
evening on his return from Moana. “We can
get the Wallaces’ place when their lease is
up, and I think we can do well enough
on it. We can get it cheap.”
“ ’Tis terrible rough country,” Jessie said.
“But if it’s cheap we’ll cope with it, though
’tis said the Wallaces are in a bad way
with debt.”
“Oh ay!” replied Allan; “but the Wallaces
would be in debt if they owned the Garden
of Eden. They are that sort, not able to
make up their minds whether they are
sheepfarmers or goldminers—they’ve got a
mine at Gabriel’s Gully as well as the
farm, and they can’t find time to look after
either of them, so busy are they following
the races. The place is right enough,” Allan
went on, “the rent is low —threepence the
acre —and there is just over ten thousand
acres. The lease is up in two months’ time.
I’ve only got to say the word to Menzies —
he’s the lawyer for the Raeburn trustees —
and we can have a twenty-years’ lease with
the right of purchase at five shillings the
acre.”
“Take it, Allan man, take it!” exclaimed
Jessie, her eyes glittering with the vision
of a splendid future, wherein their toil would
reap its full reward. Then her thoughts were
turned to her son. She would scheme out a
grand life for him. He would become a
minister. To Jessie’s mind the man who
occupied the pulpit in the kirk had attained
the highest rung on the ladder of success,
and always she had told herself that’s what
Malcolm would be if they could ever afford
the cost of the education. She thought, too,
that Allan, with all the responsibility of ten
thousand rough acres, would have little time
to be worrying about the cutting up of the
big estates, a business which, though she
did not understand it, seemed to land them
only in trouble. Of course she would not
mention such a thought to Allan. Was it
not her duty to encourage him in all his
pursuits? And, after all, he knew best.
The Macalisters took possession of the
Raeburn farm a week after their departure
from the Hermitage. Allan had not exag-
gerated when he had once described the
place as the roughest part of the county.
It consisted for the most part of rugged
mountains and deep gullies. The only
visible growth in the gullies and on the
mountain sides was the tussock. The ridges
and peaks supported no vegetation: there
was nothing there but bare rock. The out-
look from any point was a monotony of
yellow tussocks below and grey stones
above, relieved here and there with
patches of spiked mattagowrie. The dwell*
ing, outbuildings and sheepyards sat at
the wide end of a gully, close to and
facing the clay road that was the boundary-
line dividing Raeburn from the Hermitage,
A peculiar disfigurement of Raeburn was
a frequent outcrop of stone, hard, crearn-
colored and heavy, that- ran in seams in
many of the gullies and on the hillsides.
Wherever it was found the earth produced
little, if any, vegetation. There was so
much of it in the homestead gully that
the Macalisters thought of using it to
build an addition to the house, but found
it quite useless for the purpose. Allan
sought information as to the nature of the
stone from agents and others who visited
him, but no one had ever seen anything
like it before.
• The seasons were good and the markets
favorable during the first five years of
Macalister’s possession of Raeburn. By
dint of hard work, careful management and
resisting the temptation to overstock, they
were able to show a surplus. Jessie worked
side by side with her husband, and the
better to get about the steep mountain
sides and wet gullies she gave up her skirts
for breeches and leggings. Fencing, dipping,
mustering, shearing, wandering among the
ewes at all hours during the lambing season,
Jessie did her share, a man’s share, of every
job that had to be done in order to wring
from lean Raeburn the wherewithal to live.
Malcolm Caesar attended the school at
Maxwelton, riding a pony there and back.
At ten years of age he was a prodigy in
Jessie’s eyes. He could read'and write, and
do sums. Although she had held her tongue,
Jessie had years before looked askance at
Allan’s laborious efforts to solve the mys-
tery of letters as a flying in the face of
Providence, an act of rebellion against the
station in life in which it had pleased God to
place them, and a pitiful pandering to new-
fangled ideas which set such store by the
rather flashy accomplishments of reading


s'*
°»
f s
g
Two Exclusive Features.
First: the perfect site, the convenience of which
contributes so much to the comfort of our
guests. Second:
Reduced Tariff-^-”Room Only” Rates.
Single Room from 12/- per day
Double Room . . . . . . from 22/6 per day
Breakfast,
2/- and 3/6; and a la carte.
Light Luncheon,
in the Winter Garden, 2/6.
Telegraphic Address-.
“Austraotel, Sydney.”
E
Tlic
ustralia
Hotel
The Hotel of the
Commonwealth ,
Sydney.
M 59
Gifts that are Practical and Durable!
RAM ENO
iMERINO-KNIT"
CARDIGANS
SOCKS stockings
A
m&m'tj 1
A pair of Socks or Golf Stockings, a
Cardigan or a Sweater —-just the gift
that’s certain of instant approval—but
be sure you ask for BAMENO Brand,
unequalled for quality and finish,
choice of colors and smart dependable
. wear.
Ask definitely for
Rameno Brand —
Stocked by Leading
Mercers.
/
1
fj I
Made only by the Merino Woollen Mills Pty., Ltd., the
Specialist House for Men’s High-quality Knit-wear and Socks.
and writing. Not a rag of benefit had
Allan’s struggles with books brought to
them. The percentage of lambs was not
increased, and the wool brought no more.
Not a drop of sw T eat did it save at the shear-
ing. The farm still demanded its toll of
labor the year round. Not only were there
no tangible results in their favor from the
long evenings which Allan had devoted to
wracking his mind and body—fearsomely
contorting his great frame, and twisting his
limbs around the legs of his chair—but what
had resulted seemed to her to be all to the
bad. The more Allan wrestled with the
books the more his mind wandered from
the farm to what he was pleased to call
“the crying need of this young country.”
But Malcolm Caesar? His case was differ-
ent altogether. Their son, native of the
new land, where a generation was springing
up skilled in all sorts of bewildering arts,
must needs be upsides with his fellows, and
if it was within his powers and the purse
of his parents to surpass them; for did the
Good Book not say that the race was to the
swift and the battle to the strong? Did
she not yearn with all the heart of her that
Malcolm Caesar should one day attain to
the highest place of all—the pulpit?
Only once did she mention to Allan the
great desire that was in her. It was soon
after they came to Raeburn. Allan had
scouted the good intention as the best pos-
sible way to deprive the Land League in
after years of a possible leader. “And,
furthermore,” affirmed Allan, “from the day
he was born I have had it in mind that his
learning shall run along the line of fitting
him to take his place in the councils of the
State. What a daft-like notion to get into
your head, Jessie—to make the lad a
preacher, while the country is crying out
for preachers of a political system that will
preserve posterity from becoming such as
are the millions in the land we left, where
the many are shamefully poor, and the few
shamelessly rich! I doubt,” he continued,
lowering his voice and putting his arms
about Jessie’s shoulders, “you’re working
overmuch, my lassie. Take it easier, wife,
and don’t go fashing yourself with the
notion of making Malcolm Caesar a parson,
fit company only for old wives. Dear, dear,
it’s strange what daft notions will get into
the heads of the best of us!”
Chapter XV.
By the year 1877 the name of Allan Mac-
alister was known throughout the colony.
The squatters regarded him as a dangerous
anarchist, and the small farmers and the
landless hailed him as a saviour. For three
years past he had been president of the
Land League. During that period he had
made many trips to Moana on the league’s
business, and three times he had travelled to
Wellington as the leader of deputations to
the Minister of Lands. For some years past
it had been the custom of the Land League
to send a deputation to the capital to wait
upon the Minister, prior to the opening of
Parliament, to urge upon that gentleman
and his colleagues the necessity of resuming
the larger estates for the purpose of closer
settlement, and of establishing a fund to
provide cheap money for stocking and im-
proving such lands. These deputations
were invariably met with the utmost
courtesy and entire discouragement, and
the Conservative press issued grave warn-
ings to its readers, stigmatising the Land
League as the child of anarchy that sought
to compass the disintegration of the most
cherished institutions of the Empire.
The land-leaguers were not dismayed.
The more trenchant the criticism the nearer
their platform was to the region of practi-
cal politics. They believed that their
creed was politically and economically
sound. They did not seek to establish a
political fashion, but to create an enduring
movement.
The past three seasons had not been good,
and prices had fallen. Raeburn was not
paying its way, and the surplus shown at
the end of the five good years had become a
deficit. The country, hardly recovered from
its birth-pangs, quickly showed signs of
distress, consequent on lessened production.
Allan and Jessie slaved to cope with the
accumulating debts. Malcolm Ctesar, when
freed from school, tried to do a man’s
work, and came near doing it. Through it
all Allan’s passion for land reform was
not abated.
It was in these circumstances that the
momentous public meeting was convened
at Maxwelton by the county branch of
the Land League—one of many that were
promoted throughout the colony in an
endeavor to strengthen the league’s follow-
ing sufficient to warrant it nominating can-
didates for Parliament. As president, it
was Allan’s duty to deliver the chief address
at the meeting. Leaders of the movement
from the city (Moana had attained to that
dignity) and other counties had been in-
vited to give their support to the efforts
of their colleagues at Rewa-Rewa. So it
was that Allan, who had never made a
public speech, nightly rehearsed the address
that had been written for him by Andrew
Logan, the schoolmaster, by means of which
he hoped to convince the people of his
county that the league’s policy required
only to be put into operation to ensure
to the colony an enduring prosperity.
Allan was leaving nothing undone to
ensure that the people should have the
whole case for the league’s policy placed
succinctly but warmly before them. Although
an illiterate man, he had a fine ear for
the music of words. It was possible for a
listener to be deceived as to his attainments
—until he was interrupted. Then he fell
back on the vernacular, not infrequently
speaking of a male as “she” and a female
as “he,” after the manner of the Scottish
Highlander.
Although Raeburn adjoined a portion of
the western boundary of the Hermitage,
Allan had not met Lady Richmond since
he took possession of his farm, but he lmcl
news of her bitter antagonism to his public
activities. He had heard much family gossip
“'I bey your pardon, Lady Richmond ,’ exclaimed Allan, striking the table with, his clenched fist and rising stiffly to his feet.”
besides. Of Linley, the Richmonds’ daugh-
ter, it was said that she was the bonniest
wee lassie in the whole countryside,
and was to be taken to England for her
education; also that Lady Richmond had
been heard to say there were few families
whose lineage could compare with her hus-
band’s, and that when her time for marrying
came Linley must mate only with the
best. But as likely as not, Allan reflected,
these stories were only the idle gossip of
the countryside.
Allan had been deprived for the past
year of the companionship and advice of
his old friend and one-time boss James
Wiltshire. When the relationship of man-
ager and shepherd was ended a warm
friendship had developed. Wiltshire came to
regard Allan as a man of remarkable charac-
ter and intelligence, far removed from the
type with which he usually made contact.
He had the quality of drawing men to him ;
and Wiltshire never tired of listening to
Allan as he expounded his theories. Long
before they were separated the old manager
confessed himself a convert to the doctrines
of the Land League.
Through the early years of Allan’s occu-
pation of Raeburn Wiltshire had been in-
valuable as an adviser, and later, when the
bad years were on them, his knowledge
of market conditions and his foresight, be-
gotten of a long and fruitful experience,
was a material factor in saving the Mac-
alisters from going altogether to the wall.
The subject was never mentioned by Wilt-
shire, but it came to Allan’s knowledge
that the Richmonds frowned upon their
manager’s friendship with him, choosing to
regard Wiltshire as being guilty of conduct
subversive of the interests of the Hermitage
station, and its owners, and that finally
Lady Richmond had taken him to task.
Wiltshire, rather than break with Allan, had
thereupon sought and obtained another
place in Canterbury, some two hundred
miles distant.
When Allan left the Hermitage Angus
Ross was promoted to his place as head
shepherd, and on the defection of James
Wiltshire he became the manager.
Angus, a tall; spare man of Highland
parentage, was known as “Dummy” Ross,
so few were his words. He wore his straw-
colored hair longer than was the custom;
it fell well over his coat collar. He had
regular and well-formed features, from which
depended to his chest a straight, blond
beard. His eyes were large and mild and
light blue. Altogether he bore a remarkable
resemblance to a picture of Christ, of which
prints were very familiar that time. He
walked with a long stride, without a swing,
his arms depending from the shoulders,
seemingly paralysed, or as if they refused
to be implicated in the set purpose of the
legs. He covered the ground quickly,
making no noise. An elder of the kirk, he
imposed on himself and his family the strict-
est observance of the Sabbath, permitting
not even a meal to be prepared on that
day. He held, too, that it was a desecration
to speak in a loud voice upon the Sabbath,
to laugh, to read a newspaper or any book
but the Bible.
His children were reared according to
the principle that to spare the rod is to
spoil the child. His eldest boy carried on
his right cheek a livid scar where the lash
of a horsewhip had stung him when, as a
child of eight years, he had been detected
in the stable on the Sabbath day whistling
with his lips, an art he had newly acquired.
The father, horror-stricken at such a dese-
cration of the holy day by his own flesh and
blood, felled him with the whip he carried
in his hand, and that without a word of
reproof or warning.
“I haven’t a word to say against the
man,” James Wiltshire once said to Allan
“but there’s that about him I don’t under-
stand. He’s a fine man with sheep, and gets
through a deal of work, but I always feel
that he is on the lookout for something,
and that it concerns me. He’s got the un-
canny knack of suddenly appearing from
nowhere. Do you know, I’ve been out on
the hills with, as I thought, not a soul
within miles of me, when of a sudden there
appeared at my elbow Angus Ross!”
“I know,” said Allan. “I used to have
strange experiences with him myself; and
as Angus never liked me I used to get it
into my head that he was spying on me.
If you remember when old Joe Blaggs, the
rouseabout, dropped dead, Angus Ross was
standing beside him in the turnip field.
Well, man, I’ve always thought that old
Joe died of fright. He’d been on his knees
all day by himself thinning turnips, when
suddenly Angus Ross appeared to him, and
that was the end of old Joe.”
But James Wiltshire was gone, and Allan’s
last fx-iendly connection with the Hermitage
was gone with him.
(To be continued next week.)


m
siitijnflSj
nil!
rrnUiii
a
UJi
L!i
V 4
in
•n
in
THERE ARE
MECCANO
OUTFITS
AT ALL
PRICES
FROM
,4/- TO "30/ -
FREE TO BOYS
A new Meccano Book
Write today for this Book. We
will send you a copy, post free,
in return for the names and ad-
dresses of three of your pals.
This attractive book entitled
“Known all Round the World”
illustrates Meccano products,
models and other interesting
items.
You can build
628
Working Models
with a No. 2
Meccano Outfit
Who can hope to have as many toys
as a Meccano boy ? He is a real
engineer—and his playroom is an
engineering workshop. When he wants
a truck, a crane, a bridge, a motor car,
or a locomotive he builds one with his
Meccano Outfit. He can build any
model he wants —there is no limit to
the possibilities of Meccano.
All Meccano parts are standardised
and interchangeable and can be used to
make hundreds of different working
models.
Make sure you get Meccano this
Christmas 1 You will find it the most
exciting and the most thrilling hobby
in the world.
MECCANO
Wholesale Agents in Australia:
E. G. PAGE & GO. (DEPT. 42), 52, Clarence Street, SYDNEY
(P.O. BOX 1832 K).
MANUFACTURED BY MECCANO DTD., LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND.
Shelley
CHIN Af
Over the tea-cups
Tea has be-
come by custom an English
ceremony, and the ladies’ formal
hour is that spent over the
tea-cups. Fine Chinaware is in-
dispensable on these occasions,
and the world has yet to find the
equal of English Bone China,
from which the famous Shelley
Tea Sets are fashioned. Such
noble ware weds toughness with
beauty, lightness with strength;
and above all, it is what it
pretends to be, not an imitation.
Ask to see the latest
SHELLEY
Tea Sets - Nursery Ware
Coffee Sets- Av LucieAttwell
Morning Sets sHilda Cowham
Dainty White Domestic Ware
China
Jelly Moulds
ISI.CLAftENCe IT.
SYDNEY
INVINCIBLE
MARINE MOTORS
are stocked in
12 popular sizes:
2\ to 60 H.P.
“The World’s Best Since 1906”
All Spare Parts always available.
Write for 30-page illustrated
Catalogue.
Invincible Motors, Limited
Sydney Showrooms:
53 NORTH GEORGE STREET
(Near Harbor Bridge).
T 0...
LOS ANGELES
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA
... over the delightful southern
route direct from ...
HONOLULU
fdg
ALL the attrac-
tions that make
Southern California
one of the world’s
favorite playgrounds
spread themselves
immediately before
you when you enter
through the port of
Los Angeles!
Regular through pas-
sage fares can be ar-
ranged to Honolulu via
Canadian - Australasian
R. M. Line or Oceanic,
[Matson] Line, with a
stop-over of any length
you desire for a visit in
Hawaii.. .and then in a
LASSCO liner direct
from Honolulu to Los
Angeles over the de-
lightful southern route.
For full particulars ap-
ply at any steamship
ticket office or travel
agency, 0r...
7A-9
LASSCO
LOS ANGELES STEAMSHIP CO
HAROLD C. SLEIGH, Agent
55 Pitt Street . Sydney
fd
Subjects Weekly.
ALSO COLORED PICTURES
WORTH FRAMING.
°n sale at “Th e Australasian”
NEWSAGENTS The Paper all Australians appreci-
EACH WEEK, ate, and their friends overseas, too I
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
The Railways and Nationalisation
From a man whose opinion this paper
greatly respects:—
In The Bulletin of November 12, under the
head of “Nationalisation of Coalmines,” there are
some remarks relative to the Australian railways:
“When the first railway was built nobody worried
much about the bullock-driver. When the stage-
coach was pushed off the country roads by the steam
express, nobody worried much about the stage-coach.
But when motor haulage comes into the picture
it has to be put into hobbles because it would
compete with something that has been nationalised
and, aa usual, not paid for. So nationalisation has
not been an instrument of progress, but an obstacle
to progress.” 1 think you are wrong.
The railways provided a service which for all pur-
poses is'superior—immeasurably superior—to that of
the bullock-driver and to that of the stage-coach.
The substitution of the railways for the bullocks and
the coaches was a definite benefit to the community,
which was thereby enabled to greatly increase its
production of wealth. No system of transportation
on land other than the railways can adequately supply
the needs of the community for all purposes. The
railways must therefore be maintained. If the
community can afford a second—a luxury—system of
transportation in addition to its essential system, it
is entitled to have it. I say that it cannot afford
the second system. Therefore it is not entitled to
have it. And that is a good reason for the decision
“to prohibit the running of motor-’buses on certain
routes where it was alleged they competed with trains
and trams.”
Nationalisation has no bearing on the issue. The
cost of every community service must in the long
run be paid for out of the community earnings. No
matter how the railway capital was originally pro-
vided, whether by the State or by private enterprise,
the position for all practical purposes would be the
same; if private enterprise had constructed the rail-
ways and could not now afford to operate them, the
community in its own interest would be forced to
do so.
The burden placed on the community by the
motor competition (mainly the private car) is so
heavy that it is a serious factor in the difficulties
under which we are staggering. The roads have taken
much of the profitable goods traffic and much of the
passenger traffic, leaving the railways with earnings
so gravely diminished that a large and increasing
proportion of their expenditure must be met by taxa-
tion, because the rates on the traffic left to the
railways (to a great extent primary products) cannot
be increased. The position would be ludicrous if
it were not tragic.
But nationalisation has got a whole lot to
do with it. Nationalisation provided us with
hopeless lines which are a great burden on
the others; it led to terrific v/aste in both
construction and operation. But for this
waste it might now be possible for the rail-
ways to do the work which they can do best,
and make a profit out of it, leaving the
balance of the work to be done by other and
more suitable means.
That we must now regulate the traffic and
drive off very desirable competition, The
Bulletin sadly admits. But it declares
nevertheless that the! price that we thus pay
for nationalisation is too great to encourage
any further extensions. Hence the brick
aimed at the proposal to nationalise the coal-
mines: we would be likely to be chained to
the use of coal even though far more suitable
sources of power-supply were discovered.
The Farmer and the Tariff
Dear Bulletin, —As one who grows
wheat, it is obvious to me 'that we must
reduce our costs of production and still grow
more and more wheat. Where to start reduc-
ing costs is the burning question.
But, first, machinery must come down; it
is the biggest burden of the wheatgrower
to-day and has been for many years past.
For years now the farmer has been exploited
not only by machinery manufacturers but by
the super, companies, the storekeepers (who
now are squealing with all their might), the
railways, and, lastly, the damned politician
of every party.
Here are two cases of my own experience.
No. 1 was regarding a binder. Two years ago
I wanted a new binder. My old one, bought
secondhand after 10 years’ work, served me
four years. Naturally I had a fancy for the
same make—an imported machine; price £93
cash, Sydney. However, the price seemed
high, so I saw the agent of a local make.
Price, £9O f.o.r. Sunshine. A difference
of £3 only. Now, that imported machine was
then quoted in Canada at £2B. Tariff ana
Customs duty was £36, balance being commis
sion. The local agent told me (and not con-
fidentially) that his cut was £l6.
In 1923 I was interested in the formation
of a co. to manufacture a combine drill
and cultivator. We patented a new idea and
it had stood up to excellent tests in two
years’ cropping. We then secured a man
with many years’ experience in manufacture.
He told us that actual manufacture of a
nine-foot combine drill, sold here to the
farmer for £B6, was £l7. The company fell
through; three of the five men in the patent
wanted the cash and sold out. Since then
the thing has never been heard of, because,
I suppose, the purchaser’s plant for “mass”
production” would cost thousands to alter.
If we must sell our wheat for 2s. —that
is, on a Freetrade basis —where is the value of
Protection to the farmer? —Yours, J. S B. S.
Dried-fruit Packs
Dear Bulletin, —Why is our dried fruit
not put up better? Here in Central Queens-
land we get all manner of packs, chiefly
cardboard cartons and plain paper wrappers.
Generally in a few months this stuff is full
of small grubs and insects. Considering the
conditions under which the goods have to be
kept in various parts of Australia, such
perishables should be put up in tins. The
improvement and loss-prevention would more
than warrant the expense. Some time ago
we were able to get prunes packed in air-
tight tins, but they were Californian. We
hated to buy them, but we had to admit they
were wonderfully fresh and clean. Why
can’t Australians send us the same? —Yours,
G. L. T.
Australian Beef in Europe
Germany’s recent decision to forbid the
importation of frozen meat, though it has
temporarily affected the Australian trade,
may turn out a blessing in disguise. It is
already evident that, while the ban has not
greatly improved the position of the German
grower, it has inflicted real hardship on the
low-wage section of the community which
depended on the cheaper frozen product for
most of its meat ration. In spite of anti-
cipations, cheap home-killed meat has failed
to materialise, and there are good grounds
for believing that the former system of im-
portation under license will be reverted to.
When the embargo was first announced, the
South American shippers promptly closed
down. Australia took advantage of the
time-respite granted, and placed several good
shipments before the bars went up. This
served to establish a connection which should
give the Australian product a flying start
if the barrier goes up again.
In Belgium quite a satisfactory condition
of things exists, for the last four contracts
for the army have included Australian beef.
Considerable quantities have gone through
Belgium to France, and, though paying a
duty of over lid. per pound, have proved
profitable. Holland also promises to afford
a good market.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
There is talk of rationed exchange. What
does that mean ?— 465a.
Our debts abroad are payable only in gold;
gold is the international medium for settling
debt. If we haven’t got gold we send goods,
to be sold for gold. At present we can’t send
away enough goods to pay all our foreign
interest and other bills. In such circum-
stances the banks “ration” their customers,
paying for them in London so much per
month or quarter, or so much in a single
payment. It is done chiefly to limit
imports,, because an Australian merchant
can’t buy abroad more than he can pay for.
The Bulletin said lately that the work-
ers received 86 p.c. of the total income from
production. Of ss. 9d. per bushel from wheat
( M.L .) the farm-laborer's portion is only
3d. Are The Bulletin figures correct ? —
417.
The farm-worker’s wages are only a flea-
bite. The farmer’s labor is labor too.
Freight (road, railway and ship) is mostly
labor. (Interest charged by the owners on
the capital value of ships is payment for
labor put into the vessels. The owner pays
it out in a lump sum and the user returns
it to him by instalments.) The hill for bags,
for fertiliser, for twine, for implements is
mostly for labor. (The man who sells the
implement gets his commission for work done
just as much as the farm-laborer does.) The
interest on the overdraft is partly labor: the
bank-clerk must be paid, and rent allowed for
—and rent of premises is mostly instalments
of the cost of labor and materials used in
the building; nearly all the cost of materials
is labor cost. The Bulletin’s former esti-
mate that 14 p.c. of all the income from
production is profit was almost certainly an
over-estimate, and probably a large over-
estimate. Incidentally, the farmer often
pleads that his costs of production are so
low that they can’t be lowered. He over-
looks the fact that freight, rent, interest,
taxes and cost of plant, bags, fertilisers, etc.,
are production costs just as much as the
farm-laborer’s wages are.
A French loan was repaid in inflated
French currency. As this loan was floated
in London, how was this possible? —432.
France said, “Well, there’s your money (at
124 fr. to the f), and that’s that. If you’re
not satisfied, take it to the International
Court of Justice.” Nobody has taken it so
far. France’s plea is that the loans, which
amounted to 49 millions sterling altogether,
were a gamble in francs: on the dates tie
loans were floated the franc was worth re-
spectively 80, 63 and 68 p.c. of par.
There is hope for the wooden sleeper,
after all. In 1922 Germany put down 40
per cent, of steel sleepers in its State rail-
ways, and after an investigation made in
February last year its faith in them has
been almost shattered. They were found
to be badly corroded, worn and dangerous,
and many were replaced at once with wooden
sleepers. The noise was also held to be
a decided nuisance. The experts now say
that there is no proper substitute for good
wooden sleepers. If India and South Africa
would reach a similar conclusion there
would be an immediate revival in the Aus-
tralian sleeper trade.
* • * *
With rubber at 6d. and believed in some
quarters to be about to descend to l|d.,
rubber paving for streets comes into the
region of practical politics. In England the
Rubber Growers’ Association has agreed to
supply Rubber Roadways, Ltd., with one-
half of 1 p.c. of the 1929 crop free, with
special terms for more. This will allow the
co. to supply rubber paving at £3 a square
yard! This is not much above the cost of
granite and the result is almost as durable,
judging by a Melbourne example, which has
been in constant use for over 20 years and
looks as good as ever.
* # * *
This month will see the revival of a ship-
ping service between Sydney and New
Guinea. The E. and A. Co. will make
Rabaul a port of call going and coming
between Sydney and Japan. The first vessel
ou the new run is the Tanda, which last
week embarked cargo and passengers for
Rabaul at Hongkong. The change necessi-
tates cutting out the North Queensland ports
of Cairns, Thursday Island and Townsville
—this last on the southern run only. It is
a pity that Samarai in Papua cannot be
included in the revived itinerary. A genera-
tion ago it was a regular port of call, the
steamers going on thence to Herbertshoe in
New Guinea, then the headquarters of the
German administration. The competition
of the heavily subsidised N.D.L. steamers
was too stiff, however, and the Germans
clinched the matter by putting prohibitive
terms on the shipping of produce from the
Territory in other than German bottoms, so
the old. route via Thursday Island was
resumed.


Bank of New Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capita] £6,858,113
Reserve Fund and Undivided
Profits 4,173,156
£11,031,269
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World. Every description of Banking Business
conducted.
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
'.STABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE U HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Ffre on jail classes of
!" Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks oil Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. 0. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —— .think of
gfd
g
r SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Officn: 44 Bridge Streer, Sydney.
600 INCREASE
in one month
in one city alone!
Established
II
1846.
®he Brisbane (Courier
is increasing its leadership in all parts of
Queensland—the public support extended
to the State’s oldest and most influential
newspaper is growing greater each month.
News and features from the Courier do
not now appear in any country newspaper,
and country residents are therefore
demanding The Brisbane Courier more
insistently than ever before.
So if you want Queenslanders to buy
YOUR goods the quickest and most
effective way to reach the largest number
of prospective purchasers is to advertise in
oThc Brisbane (Courier
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREBT.
’Phone 85007.
. Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth >
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F 3906
London Agent: H. C. GRELLIER, 173
Fleet-street.
/V LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
BRIDGING ALL SEAS
0
i
88k
fdg
UNKING CONTINENTS
v__ I
U.S.A., CANADA, EUROPE,
via the South Seas
Hawaii Fiji Tahiti—-
Raratonga—-New Zealand
Through Bookings with
UNION STEAM SHIP GO.,
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Agents,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
fd
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN
AND UNION ROYAL MAIL LINES
mm
I
r-x
f
tW
-t-Xl
J*
BURNS PHILP TOURS
.THE GARDEN OF THE EAST
SMOOTH WATER VOYAGE
WHICH IS A HOLIDAY IN ITSELF
Regular monthly sailings by the
popular vessels S.S. “MARELLA,”
7500 tons; M.V. “MALABAR,” 5000
tons.
Return Fare from Sydney,
I £Bl
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and
Adelaide.
Travel in Picture, Verse and Story.
Read the “B.P. Magazine,” 1/- a copy
All Newsagents and Booksellers.
BURNS. PHILP&.C?.L T °
7 bridge: ST, SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1.817.
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital, .
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
gfd
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 £89,228,378
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
594 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
The Paper you should first select in Queensland for any Advertising
Campaign is—
The “Daily Mail”
BRISBANE
Results count, and in Queensland the “Daily Mail” is demon-
strating its supremacy in this respect every day. The “Daily Mail”
is one of Brisbane’s two morning papers, and although more than
50 years younger than its contemporary, its net circulation—
both city and country—has been proved by unaccepted challenge
to be greater than any other Queensland daily.
Rate Cards, Net Daily Circulation Certificate and Specimen Copies
from:—
Brisbane Daily Mail, Ltd.
Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
London: R. B. BRETT
and SON, 30-34 New
Bridge Street* E.C.4
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Ulysses . . 15,000 tons, Jan. 19, ’3l
tEuripides 15,000 ~ Feb. 16, ’3l
*Nestor . . 15,000 „ Mar. 13, ’3l
*First class only. fFirst and third class.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
Agents
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
One Class Only,
TO PLYMOUTH AND LONDON,
VIA SUEZ.
Calling at Colombo, Port Said and Malta.
Single, two- four- and six-berth Porthole Cabins.
SPEED, EXCELLENT CUISINE AND ALL MODERN
COMFORTS—CANVAS SWIMMING BATH.
Fares to London from £3B.
To Colombo from £22.
Special Excursion Return Tickets to
Colombo issued from Sept, to Feb., £32-
All passage fares paid in Australia subject to the
addition of exchange.
Freight Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Joint Passenger Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Tel.: 86701. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.,
Tel.: 87G12. 247 George Street, Sydney.
■
Iheropular waler-
Boulevord to
'JAW.
■X'-.y.'wW
■ss>” <.»<*
V Vv *“
J&
g
fdg
The Worlds Greatest Travel System .
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CDUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISEAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAD ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNED CDUB
N.Z. GODF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. PODO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OP
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to—
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any mt the World's Dending
Advertising Agen jie».


THE
*
r~N
s#S
(gj
rfi^TUva
/; «g .-..' J
BOOK OP TRA I MS
HTI ~y+v"J. &• £ •:-: f:?±M.
The 1930 Hornby
Booh o£ Trains
The 1930 edition of this
famous book contains a
number of interesting railway
articles in addition to full
colour illustrations of all
Hornby Trains, Rolling Stock
and Accessories.
You may obtain a copy
from any dealer, price 6d.
If you have any difficulty
send six penny stamps and
the names and addresses of
three of your chums direct
to us for a copy, post free.
Prices of Hornby
Trains from
10/- to 160/-
Controlling traffic up and down the line ;
signalling and clearing goods and passenger
trains ; working points and cross-overs—that
is a signalman’s job, whether he is operating on
a real railway or a Hornby Railway.
The fascination of a Hornby Railway lies in
its true-to-life construction. It is a real railway
in miniature, for it enables almost every operation
employed in up-to-date railway practice to be
carried out realistically.
Hornby clockwork and electric trains are the
best that you can buy. The Locomotives are
built for heavy loads and long runs ; the Rolling
Stock is strong, smooth-running and durable ;
the Accessories are realistic and correct in pro-
portion. If you do not yet possess a Hornby
Railway, now is the time to start. Take Dad to
your dealer’s store and show him the Hornby
Trains to-day.
HORNBY TRAINS
Wholesale Agents in Australia:
E. G. PAGE & GO. (DEPT. U), 52, Clarence St., SYDNEY (P.0.80x 1832 K)
MANUFACTURED BY MECCANO ETD., EIVERPOOE, ENGLAND. ,
Public Notices.
NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums required
from persons, etc., insuring with any
Insurance Company not registered in
New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act 1909-27.
A LL persons, firms, companies and associa-
tions - being owners, trustees or agents
for any goods or property within the Sydney
Fire District, and every other Fire District
in the State of New South Wales to which
the Fire Brigades Act 1909-27 has been
applied, in respect of which premiums are
paid to an insurance company not registered
in the State, are hereby notified that they
are required to send to the Board of Fire
Commissioners of New South Wales returns
showing the amount of such premiums paid
by them in respect of the said property to
such insurance companies during the year
1930. .
The time appointed for receipt of the
returns is on or before the 31st January,
1931, subject to a penalty not exceeding £1
per day for every day of default.
Note. —Returns are required only of the
proportion of the premiums properly charge-
able in respect of the Fire Risk during the
time such property was in any Fire District
under the said Act.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South W ales,
H. M. WEBB,
Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
27th November, 1930.
NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums required
from Insurance Companies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act 1909-27.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by
the above Act, are hereby notified that
they are required to send to the Board of
Fire Commissioners of New South Wales
returns showing the total amount of the
premiums received by or due to such com-
panies in respect of risks against fire during
the year ending 31st December, 1930, within
the Sydney Fire District and every other
Fire District in the State of New South
Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act
1909-27 applies, less any part of such
premiums actually paid by way of reinsur-
ance to any other insurance, companies con-
tributing under the said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the
returns is on or before the 31st January,
1931, subject to a penalty not exceeding Five
pounds for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required
returijs may be obtained from, the under-
signed. ' . _
■By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales, <
■ , 11. M. WEBB,
. ■. Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,,
27tli November, 1930.
fd
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Orescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
MACMILLAN’S
CARDINAL
SERIES
of
Beautiful Leather Bindings
BLUE ECRASE MOROCCO.
5/- net.
28 TITLES, including Poetry of
Byron, Shelley, Keats, Tennyson,
Hardy, C. Rossetti. Works of Lewis
Carroll, Charles Lamb, Kingsley; The
Golden Treasury of Poetry, etc., etc.
6/- net.
9 TITLES. Jane Austen, 5 vols.
Cranford, Sheridan’s Plays, R. L.
Stevenson, 3 vols. Patterson s Man-
eaters, Wister’s Virginian.
CRIMSON ECRASE MOROCCO
6/6 net.
33 TITLES. Standard Works, includ-
ing the Great Poets, Dickens, Scott,
Kipling, Lamb, Kingsley, Emerson,
etc., etc.
8/6 net-
LARGE HANDSOME VOLUMES,
each with 1 6 beautiful Illustrations in
color. Alice in Wonderland, Through
the Looking Glass, The Water Babies,
The Heroes, Kipling’s Land and Sea
Tales.
10/6 net.
Ingoldsby Legends, Lodge’s Pioneers
of Science, Green’s Short History.
12/6 net.
A.E.’s Collected Poems, Yeats’s Later
Poems, Yeats’s Plays,. Saintsbury’s
Short History of English Literature.
15/- net-
Bradley’s Shakspearean Tragedy.
Ask your Bookseller for descriptive lists.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
gfd
DIRECT MEDIUM Tg WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFIE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
The Sentimentalist.
G. HARRISON JONES
TELLS A STORY OF THE WATCHMAN
AND THE WEDDING.
THE old uightwatchman, liis last round
of inspection done, was ready to leave
for home. Sitting on an overturned
packing-case at the entrance to his tumble-
down shed, with his thin hands cupped before
a brazier, he awaited patiently the dismissal
of the night shift.
The town clock chimed, and four strokes
rang out sonorously. As the last died away
lie rose, choked the coals with a few hand-
fuls of earth, and buttoned his overcoat
tightly around his neck.
There came presently the rattle of the
staff lift, loud because all was so still, and
men and hoys carrying their lunch-tins began
to issue from the cart dock hear by. First
in silent ones and twos, then in boisterous
little groups, they passed by and out into
the street.
“’Night, Jim!” someone called to the man
on the gate.
“ ’Night, Bill!” he called back.
Allan was later than usual to-night; but
presently the loose-limbed, athletic figure
was striding out after the others. His luncli-
tin was gripped firmly under one arm, and
his hands were thrust deep into his overcoat
pockets.
“Cold to-night, Oldtimer!” he said as he
came up.
The old man rose and stretched his limbs,
then picked up his own supper-tin and his stick.
“Thought you weren’t cornin’, boy,” he -
said with gruff good humor. “Somethin’ go
wrong?”
“Only a bit of a hitch with one of th’
machines. Wasn’t throwin’ th’ slugs
prop’ly.”
Their footsteps echoed as they walked
.slowly along the deserted street, the young man
measuring his pace to that of his companion.
“Two more days now, Oldtimer!” Allan
said buoyantly. “Only two little days, and
then —oh, boy!” He hummed a few bars
of a ballad, but soon broke off to add: “I
say, Jim, you must come, y’know.”
“It’s good o’ y’, Allan .boy,” the old man
replied diffidently, “but you two youngsters
won’t want an old chap like me there. I’d
feel right out o’ place.”
“Rubbish! Come on, now! You know
as well as I do y’ wouldn’t miss it for
worlds!” His voice was firm and confident,
the voice of a young man in love, and he
began to hum again, carelessly. Then
abruptly he stopped and said with _ boyish
earnestness: “Love’s a grand thing, isn’t it,
Jim?”
“Aye, boy, a grand thing, a wonderful
thing. May y’ never lose it!”
“Lose it' No chance o’ that in this little
world 1 ! Why, Molly says she loves me more
than I love her, an’ I tell her it’s impos-
sible.” He laughed lightheartcdly. “We
nearly, had a fight-about it last night. You
ever been in love yourself, Jim?” he asked
unexpectedly.
A shadow seemed to pass over the old
man’s face. “Ay, once,” he said.
“I mean, really in love?”
“Yes, boy, really in love.” _ !
The tone was hushed, almost inaudible,
and the face of the old man was expression-
less.
Sensing unhappiness, the boy fell silent in
sympathy. Not for long, though; he was
too full of his own affairs.
“Say, Jim, you will come, won’t y’?” he
pleaded at length. “It’s only goin’ to be
a small family affair.”
The older man paused and extended his
hand. “All right; son, I’ll come,” he said kindly.
“Good man! Molly’ll be glad o’ that.”
Half a mile from the works they parted.
Leaning heavily on his stick, the old man
made his way throughtfully through the city
streets. He was thinking of Molly and
Allan, and there was a sentimental light in
his eyes. Molly and Allan. .. . Mary and
he !
Mary and he. ... !
He sighed heavily. He had never told
Allan why he was so fond of Molly. Allan
was young, and he had been afraid, with the
same sensitive fear that had walled within
him a thousand unspoken sentiments.
It was three months since he had met
her, on the occasion when the boy invited
him home. He did not know that Allan
had said to her:
“The poor old chap is such a good sort,
dear, and he seems to be pretty lonely. I
thought perhaps you wouldn’t mind”
His first glimpse of Molly was what the
old man was remembering now—the counter-
part of his Mary as she was those thirty-five
years ago. Her voice, low and melodious;
her cloudy black hair, so thick and soft that
he longed passionately to bury his face in
it; her lovable little features. He had
stared at her dully, incapable of acknow-
ledging the introduction. Mary again,
thirty-five years after; and he had carried
the image in his heart every day since, some-
times tormenting himself for a fool, but
always clinging to it jealously.
He became aware of the faint sound of music.
Before him shaded lights cast their rays
across the footpath from the vestibule of a
ballroom. As yet without recognition, but
sensing resemblances, liis brain caught up
the tune, and lie paused, stirred vaguely.
And then his heart sang, because they
were playing the waltz that had entranced
the world when Mary and he had loved!
Something constricted his lungs. His pulse
raced. Memories flocked to him as he was
borne away on the wings of the breathless
melody.
Some of the late revellers began to leave,
and he stepped away from, the doorway and
into the shadow near by, reluctant to pass on.
A young man and a girl passed quite close
to him. The boy bent and kissed her hair,
lightly, reverently. “Darling,” he murmured.
She glanced up quickly into his face, and
her eyes were tender. “Oh, Colin!” she
said, and he bent impulsively and kissed her.
As they were about to enter a roadster
by the kerb she unfastened a red rose from
the posy on her shoulder, and handed it to
him. blushing happily. They drove off.
The man in the shadows was scarcely con-
scious of his surroundings, or of the fact
that he was alone in the street. His thoughts
were far in the past.
“Jim, dea!r, you’ll remember, won’t
you ?”....
Mary was standing beside him on the dock
as he prepared ,to join his ship for the last
voyage. His .dunnage was aboard, and he
had his arm around her. Her eyes were
brimming.
“Mary, darling, sure I’ll remember,” he
had replied huskily. “Cheer up, lass! Why,
two months from now and we’ll be married!”
And the ship’s whistle blew, the last of
the Island passengers were hurrying aboard,
and the officer was waiting to give the order
to cast off. Mary was sobbing • without
restraint, and as he tried to comfort her he
saw some tears fall on a red rose pinned
on her corsage. He had unpinned it gently
and placed it in his pocket
The methodical tread of a policeman
'startled him. Shivering slightly, he stepped
out of the doorway. The constable peered
at him suspiciously.
“Now then! What’s Oh, it’s you,
Dad! Late this mornin’, aren’t y’?”
“Just takin’ it easy, Arty, boy,” the old
man returned. “These legs o’ mine ain’t
what they used t’ be.”
The old man passed on, slowly. The
waltz still sang in his brain, warming his
thin blood like the sun in a garden at morn-
ing. Images drawn hungrily from hidden
places trailed through his mind—of Mary
when he first met her; of one of her chal-
lenging glances; of her lovable smile; of a
peculiar attitude of her lissom body. Every
passionate moment, every trifling incident
that endeared her, came to his memory.
Thirty-five years ag0....
It seemed like yesterday that he had writ-
ten her his first letter. The phrasing of it
was indelible. He had said:
Mary, my sweetheart, I’ll never know completely
why I worship you. Every hour brings me something
new to love. And behind it all seems to be some
splendid meaning that I can only call the Spirit of
You. I don’t know whether I can make you under-
stand, but I’ll try. By this Spirit of You I mean
a kind of essence of all the good women who ever
lived. / '. '
If I could write a book I would talk about the
ideals I suppose, My love, you are my ideal—all
I’ve ever hoped and longed for.. Those beautiful
things about you seem to be. bigger than you, more
than you. It seems that you but give them ex-
pression. Ah, how wonderful -is love! Like the
sun flooding the dark sea, and, like the sea, ever-
lasting ....
He smiled to himself, a little wrily. Had
Mary really ever been as . marvellous as
that? His head and his heart struggled with
each other as they had come to do often
throughout the years. His head told him
again that youth more often fell in love
with love than with the object of its affec-
tion. Youth was like that; it loved eagerly,
.spontaneously,' on the flimsiest foundation.
He was unsure now .how much of his pas-
sion had been for Mary herself and how
much for the illusory Mary his willing fancy
had created around her. Perhaps love itself
was only an illusion.
A milk waggon that clattered by and
splashed, him 1 with some specks of mud
brought him abruptly to consciousness of
his surroundings. He was through the city
and into his own suburb, and it was break-
ing day. As he turned into the narrow
street in which he lived he heard the fitful
slamming of doors and occasional voices
from lighted basements.
The brick houses in the street were all
of the one type. Their fronts were like
sleeping faces, ugly faces, with the door set
in the middle like a nose, and a window eacii
side of it with drawn lids. Even the grubby,
chipped doorsteps looked like hanging under-
lips.
_ There fell on him a heaviness that weighed
him down hopelessly. Thirty-five years with
a memory! Desperately he felt the need
of sentimental companionship.
Before one of the doors he stopped and
fumbled in the pocket of his coat for a key.
With a shaking hand he inserted it in the
lock and pushed open the door. The hall-
way was warm and stuffy. Walking softly
he entered a musty sitting-room on the left,
and applied a match .to the gasjet. Under
the hissing flare, bare of a mantle, he un-
bottoned his greatcoat, and carefully drew
from an inside pocket a grubby envelope.
He opened the flap and extracted a flower,
a rose, pressed and faded,- but still the color
of blood.
“Red for love,” he murmured.
He stood regarding it, heedless of the
sound of the hall curtain being brushed aside
him. He may not even have been aware.
A woman had come into the room.
Her feet were bare, and a “floral wrap”
was thrown over her nightgown around her
heavy shoulders. Her body was fat to gross-
ness, and her- face was red and coarse.
She asked roughly: “Where’ve you been
until now? I woke near an hour. ago. an’
you’ve ’ad me worryin’—f’ nothin’!” With-
out waiting-for an- answer, she added: “Y’ll
find some boilin’ water in th’ kitchen.”
The old man looked at her \face for a
long moment, searching it almost pitifully.
He was thinking of a sunlit day in Decem-
ber. His shoulders seemed to droop even
more., and when he spoke his tone was dull,
despairing. - ...... .
“All right, Mary dear,” lie said.
Invasion.
Dark trees beset the moonlight acre,
Spread like a cloth of silver strands ,
For the first comer, the. first taker,
Tom Tiddler’s ground and not one
waker
In those, white lands!
There was' no - outcry at their entry;
What was ! the wind doing ? Gagged and
dumb
They have trussed him up, un watchful
sentry,
And through the moon’s unguarded country
Silent they come.
N.S.W.
R. D. FITZ GERALD.


■HRi
. V
mm
mm, V'SS
1 asia
3
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents—EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., ETI)., Brisbane,
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A
“THE AGE’’
Established 185$.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you neglect to use “The Age” fpr adver-
tising, you miss one of the most vital features
in your Victorian campaign, and no advertiser
who is spending 1 irge sums to produce,
advertise and sell an article can ailord to
take that risk.
“THE AGE”
has over 122,000 daily subscribers who have
confidence in their chosen publication, and
because it is a newspaper that not only goes
into the home but reaches the very heart of
'the household, the advertiser who places his
products or service on record in its columns
is assured of dependable reader value.
“The Age” publishes over 1,000,000
advertisements annually.
Audited Daily net circulation
122,501.
Bates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
47 Fleet Street, London.
National Advertisers
Who Wish to Cover South Australia
i
The only Pictorial
Newspaper in South
Australia offers ex-
ceptional value to
advertisers who wish
to reach the women
buyers in South Aus-
tralia. In one week
recently more than
12,000 letters were
received from
women readers.
First with the news
—first with the pic-
tures—is the slogan
of The Register the
paper South Austra-
lian women buy to
read.
REGISTER
NEWS-PICTORIAL
REPRESENTATIVES
SYDNEY. S. MELBOURNE
Thompson, “Ll«-
Sar House,” 30
arrington street.
J. N. Bednall,
The Herald Office,
Flinders street.
the mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
(Established 1854)
The '‘Mercury” is the only Metro-
politan Newspaper in the State.
Its news services, articles, typo-
graphy are unexcelled in Australia.
THE “MERCURY” COVERS
TASMANIA
And its circulation exceeds the
combined figures of the dailies in
Tasmania. Delivered by fast motor-
cars, it reaches Launceston (121
miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before break-
fast,
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address; “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F L Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
the Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERIISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price 1 id.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. .THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald’’ Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.O. 4.
Do You Know ?
“The Week"
has special columns on the following
matters of interest to the man on the
land.
Agriculture In the Garden
The Orchard The Grazier
The Piggery Sugar Industry
Poultry Nature Notes
Dairying
And many more items that will
interest and benefit him by reading.
Price 3d. per copy
From All Newsagents, or
14/6 Per Annum, Post Paid, from
THE TELEGRAPH
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane, Queensland,
\
who also issue “The Telegraph”
daily—l 2 noon, 3 p.m. and 5 p.m.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth, It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern ..is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Vitality
V COMES FROM
REAL HEALTH
/+
t
1
ar
m
REAL health comes from
a system working in
harmony—one that is clean—
vital. Beecham’s Pills keep the
system active and in order. They
make you feel gloriously fit and
foil of life. They cause no
sluggish reaction because they
do not force. No habit is formed
because they act persuasively#
Purely vegetable.
BEECHAMS
PILLS
"WORTH A
GUINEA
A BOX"
❖
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same day of publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “H
- ' a y Evening Express’ obtainable from:
y Courier” and
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Patterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
426 National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
726 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia** Great Weekly Newspaper
bulletin
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin’*
to its subscribers
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S months from • •• ••
for which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia —12 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas —12 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
»
0°
e
O
\o
2
.
S 6 *
<s e ® .
\\e>° C
' V*'’
t . ' '


“T
1 could not hope to meet
to-day’s keen competition
without Chevrolet”
says Mr. W. Hough , The Valley , Brisbane
T am steadily building up my business through
A Chevrolet’s ... quick, reliable deliveries. It
is trouble-free in operation, and I average 20 miles
per gallon on bad roads, 22 on good roads. It is
largely responsible for the success of my business,”
writes this busy fencing and carrying contractor.
In every part of Australia Chevrolet has proved
itself a reliable business builder. Owners find that
this sturdy truck helps them meet the keenest
competition. Its inbuilt strength, economy,
and long-lived service make them enthusiastic
about its low-cost performance. That is why
keen men in every trade acknowledge Chevrolet
as their business-building partner. They endorse
it as the only truck capable of meeting all their
requirements of low-cost operation coupled with
capacity, power, speed, and reliability.
Chevrolet will help
increase your profits
Investigate the low-priced Chevrolet 30-cwt. Truck
now. A small deposit will put it to work for you.
Convenient G.M.A.C. terms will enable you to
pay the balance out of income—out of the greater
profits Chevrolet will earn for you, the needless
expense it will save.
A wide range of modern body types to choose
from, each covered by General Motors standard
warranty. Complete service available every-
where. Demonstrations arranged with pleasure.
General Motors (Australia) Pty. Ltd., Brisbane,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth. “More
Wealth for Australia —More Jobs for Australians.”
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
1 A «
- <**£ ,;..** f • i
!':■ ’•. ■ <f JKkt**
*4|f -v . - ** •* *A‘ * *
11 r 9 *l® ~
Jm ..4«1 • T-. <
™T
:. —".-
lamßr
■ '■
m
.
11
■
- :* * ' ■ '
..
warn
wMmmwmi
r
« ff<# V-
faroir %«L..
; ,*
. , v :-
■v
k ,>;
...
A%
i v>*-
»
:
n
:•s?:
1
n
A
:4 ; :
K
i
■
\
X 1
METROPOLITAN DISTRIBUTORS
MOTORS LIMITED,
Wickham Street, Brisbane,
JOHN McGRATH, LTD.,
155 Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
STOKOE MOTORS PTY., LTD,
559-565 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
CITY MOTORS, LTD.,
95 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
SYDNEY ATKINSON MOTORS,
41 Pier Street, Perth
MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
113-115 Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Web steel wheels now standard
equipment on Chevrolet 30-cwt
Trucks at no extra cost.
Chevrolet Six
3o«jtrucks
ĝfd
